Using Register-Diversified Corpora forGeneral Language StudiesDoug las  Biber*Northern Arizona UniversityThe present study summarizes corpus-based research on linguistic characteristics from severaldifferent structural evels, in English as well as other languages, howing that register variationis inherent in natural language.
Itfurther argues that, due to the importance and systematicityof the linguistic differences among registers, diversified corpora representing a broad range ofregister variation are required as the basis for general language studies.First, the extent of cross-register differences are illustrated from consideration ofindividualgrammatical nd lexical features; these register differences are also important for probabilisticpart-of-speech taggers and syntactic parsers, because the probabilities associated with grammat-ically ambiguous forms are often markedly different across registers.
Then, corpus-based multi-dimensional nalyses of English are summarized, showing that linguistic features from severalstructural evels function together as underlying dimensions of variation, with each dimensiondefining a different set of linguistic relations among registers.
Finally, the paper discusses howsuch analyses, based on register-diversified corpora, can be used to address two current issuesin computational linguistics: the automatic lassification of texts into register categories andcross-linguistic comparisons of register variation.1.
IntroductionAs the use of computer-based text corpora has become increasingly important for re-search in natural anguage processing, lexicography, and descriptive linguistics, issuesrelating to corpus design have also assumed central importance.
Two main considera-tions are important here: 1) the size of the corpus (including the length and number oftext samples), and 2) the range of text categories (or registers) that samples are selectedfrom.
1 Within social science, these considerations are associated with the two mainkinds of error that can threaten 'external validity' (the extent o which it is possibleto generalize from a sample to a larger target population): ' random error' and 'biaserror.'
Random error occurs when a sample is not large enough to accurately estimatethe true population; bias error occurs when the selection of a sample is systematicallyDepartment ofEnglish, Northern Arizona University, P.O.
Box 6032, Flagstaff, AZ 86011-6032;biber@nauvax.bitnet.1 Corpus designs can differ along several other parameters, including:1. bounded/static versus unbounded/dynamic;2. richly encoded versus minimally encoded (e.g., grammatical t gging, phonological/prosodicencoding, tagging of social characteristics (of participants) and situational characteristics);3. complete texts versus amples from texts;4. selection of texts: convenience v rsus purposeful versus random within strata versus proportionalrandom.?
1993 Association for Computational LinguisticsComputational Linguistics Volume 19, Number 2different from the target population it is intended to represent.
Both kinds of errormust be minimized to achieve a representative corpus.Recent debates concerning the design of general purpose corpora have often di-vided into two opposing camps emphasizing one or the other source of error: thoseadvocating large corpora versus those advocating "balanced" corpora (i.e., includinga wide range of registers).
For example, the ACL Data Collection Initiative (DCI) andthe Linguistic Data Consortium are focusing on the rapid collection and dissemina-tion of very large corpora, with relatively little attention to the range of registers; oldercorpora, such as the Brown Corpus and LOB Corpus, are small by present-day stan-dards but are explicitly structured to 'represent a wide range of styles and varieties'(Francis and Ku~era 1964 \[cf.
Johansson, Leech, and Goodluck 1978\]).
Projects suchas the COBUILD Corpus, Longman/Lancaster Corpus, and British National Corpus(BNC) combine both emphases to varying extents.Although all of these corpora could be considered "representative" of at least somevarieties of English, it is important o address the question of whether the varietiesrepresented match the intended uses of a corpus.
For example, studies of a singlesublanguage are legitimately based on corpora representing only that variety, suchas journal articles on lipoprotein kinetics (Sager 1986), Navy telegraphic messages(Fitzpatrick et al 1986), weather eports (Lehrberger 1982), and aviation maintenancemanuals (Kittredge 1982).One of the main issues addressed here, though, is whether general language stud-ies must be based on a corpus that is register-diversified as well as large.
Some pro-ponents of very large corpora have suggested that size can compensate for a lack ofdiversity--that if a corpus is large enough, it will represent the range of linguistic pat-terns in a language, even though it represents only a restricted range of registers.
Giventhis assumption, linguistic analyses of any very large corpus could be generalized tothe entire language.In contrast, I argue here that analyses must be based on a diversified corpus rep-resenting a wide range of registers in order to be appropriately generalized to thelanguage as a whole, as in a dictionary or grammar of English, or a general purposetagging program for English.
2 In fact, global generalizations are often not accurate atall, because there is no adequate overall linguistic characterization of the entire lan-guage; rather, there are marked linguistic differences across registers (or sublanguages;cf.
Kittredge 1982).
Thus a complete description of the language often entails a com-posite analysis of features as they function in various registers.
Such analyses must bebased on corpora representing the range of registers.In the following discussion, I first briefly illustrate the extent of cross-registerdifferences from consideration of individual grammatical and lexical features.
Sec-tion 2.1 focuses on the marked differences in the distribution of dependent clausesacross registers.
This section then shows that register differences are also importantfor probabilistic part-of-speech taggers and syntactic parsers, because the probabilitiesassociated with grammatically ambiguous forms are often markedly different acrossregisters.
Section 2.2 focuses on adjectives marking 'certainty' to illustrate how lexicalpatterns are also distributed ifferently across registers.Section 3 makes this point more strongly by describing a multidimensional nal-ysis of numerous linguistic features in a register-diversified corpus of English.
Theanalysis shows that linguistic features from all levels function together as underly-2 In other papers (Biber 1990, in press, a), I have explored issues of representativeness r lating to corpussize.220Douglas Biber Using Register-Diversified Corpora for General Language StudiesTable 1Mean frequencies of three dependent clause types (per 1,000 words) in fourregisters (from Biber 1988, Appendix III).Relative Causative Adverbial that ComplementRegister Clauses Subordinate Clauses ClausesPress reports 4.6 .5 3.4Official documents 8.6 .1 1.6Conversations 2.9 3.5 4.1Prepared speeches 7.9 1.6 7.6ing dimensions of variation, and that there are systematic and important linguisticdifferences among registers with respect o these dimensions.
The extent of those dif-ferences clearly shows that linguistic analyses based on a restricted corpus cannot begeneralized to the language as a whole.Section 4, then, shows how multidimensional nalyses of register variation canbe used to address additional computational issues.
First, Section 4.1 discusses theapplication of the multidimensional model of English to predict the register categoryof texts automatically with a high degree of accuracy.
The predictive power of themodel at three levels of abstraction is tested.
In Section 4.2, then, I turn to cross-linguistic patterns of register variation, illustrating how multidimensional nalyses ofregister-diversified corpora in English, Nukulaelae Tuvaluan, Korean, and Somali en-able register comparisons of a kind not otherwise possible, providing the backgroundfor more detailed investigations of particular subregisters or sublanguages.2.
Particular Grammatical and Lexical FeaturesThe analyses in this section illustrate the fact that there are systematic and importantgrammatical and lexical differences among the registers of English; Section 2.1 treatsgrammatical features and Section 2.2 discusses lexical features.2.1 Grammatical Issues2.1.1 Descriptive Analyses.
One of the main uses of general text corpora has beento provide grammatical descriptions of particular linguistic features, such as nominalpremodification structures, relative clauses, verb and particle combinations, and cleftsand pseudoclefts ( ee the numerous entries in the bibliography of corpus-based stud-ies compiled by Altenberg \[1991\]).
Two findings repeatedly come out of this literature:first, individual inguistic features are distributed ifferently across registers, and sec-ond, the same (or similar) linguistic features can have different functions in differentregisters.The linguistic description of dependent clauses in English illustrates these pat-terns.
Although these constructions are often treated as a single coherent system, thevarious types of structural dependency actually have quite different distributions andfunctions in English (cf.
Biber 1988, 1992).
For example, Table 1 shows that relativeclauses are quite frequent in official documents and prepared speeches but quite rarein conversation.
In contrast, causative adverbial subordination occurs most frequentlyin conversation and is quite rare in official documents and press reports.
Finally, thatcomplement clauses occur most frequently in prepared speeches, and with moderatefrequencies in conversations and press reports, but they are rare in official documents.There is further variation within these structural categories.
For example, most rel-221Computational Linguistics Volume 19, Number 2ative clauses in official documents have WH rather than that relative pronouns (7.7out of 8.6 total), while the two types are evenly split in conversation (1.6 WH relativeclauses versus 1.3 that relatives).
Although causative adverbial clauses are generallymore frequent in spoken registers, clauses headed by as~since occur almost exclusivelyin writing (although they are relatively rare in both modes); clauses headed by becauseare much more frequent in speech (Tottie 1986).Biber (1992) uses confirmatory factor analysis, building on corpus-based frequencycounts of this type, to show that discourse complexity is itself a multi-dimensionalconstruct; different ypes of structural elaboration reflect different discourse functions,and different registers are complex in different ways (in addition to being more orless complex).
The analysis further identifies a fundamental distinction between thediscourse complexities of written and spoken registers: written registers exhibit manycomplexity profiles, differing widely in both the extent and the kinds of complexity,while spoken registers manifest a single major pattern differing only in extent.2.1.2 Probabilistic Tagging and Parsing.
The differing distributions illustrated in Sec-tion 2.1.1 have important implications for probabihstic tagging and parsing techniques,which depend on accurate stimates of the relative likelihood of grammatical cate-gories in particular contexts.
Two kinds of probabilistic information are commonlyused in part-of-speech taggers: 1) for ambiguous lexical items, the relative probabilityof each grammatical category (e.g., abstract as a noun, adjective, and verb); and 2) forgroups of ambiguous words, the relative probability of various tag sequences (e.g., thelikelihood of a noun being followed by a verb, adjective, or another noun).To investigate whether grammatically ambiguous words have different distribu-tions across registers, I compiled two separate on-line dictionaries from the LOB Cor-pus: one based on the expository registers, and one from the fiction registers.
Table 2presents descriptive statistics from a comparison of these two dictionaries.
The firstobservation is that many words occurred in only one of the dictionaries.
This is notsurprising in the case of exposition, since there were over twice as many lexical entriesin the exposition dictionary.
However, it is more surprising that there were over 6000words that occurred only in fiction.
These included many common words, such ascheek, kissed, grandpa, sofa, wallet, briefcase, intently, and impatiently.A comparison of the probabilities of words occurring in both dictionaries is evenmore revealing.
One thousand ten words had probability differences greater than 50%,while another nine hundred eighty words had probability differences greater than 30%.These words represented many lexical types.
For example, the first group of wordslisted on Table 2 are past participle forms.
There is a strong likelihood that the -edforms (i.e., admitted, observed, remembered, expected) will function as past tense verbs infiction (probabilities of 77%, 91%, 89%, and 54%) but as passive verbs in exposition(probabilities of 67%, 45%, 72%, and 77%).
The word observed shows a slightly differentpattern in that it has a relatively high probability of occurring as an adjective inexposition (33%).
In fiction, the -ed forms never occur as adjectives, apart from the 4%likelihood for remembered.
Finally, the two true participles (known and given) are mostlikely to occur as perfect aspect verbs in fiction (65% and 77% likelihood), but theyare similar to the -ed forms in typically occurring as passive verbs in exposition (65%and 71%).The words in the second group on Table 2 represent noun/verb/adjective am-biguities.
These include noun/verb ambiguities (trust, rule), -ing participles (thinking,breathing), verb/adjective ambiguities (secure), and noun/adjective ambiguities (major,representative).
Apart from the last two types, these forms all show a strong likelihoodto function as verbs in fiction (62% to 92% probability).
In contrast, these forms are222Douglas Biber Using Register-Diversified Corpora for General Language StudiesTable 2Comparison of the probabilities of grammatically ambiguous words in adictionary based on Exposition versus a dictionary based on Fiction.
(Bothdictionaries are derived from the one million words of the LOB Corpus.
)Overall Statistics:Total lexical entries in the Fiction dictionary = 22,043Total lexical entries in the Expository dictionary = 50,549Total words occurring in the Fiction dictionary only: 6,204Total words occurring in the Expository dictionary only: 31,476Words having probability differences of > 50%: 1,010Words having probability differences of > 30%: 980Examples of marked differences in probabilities for common words:(Note: The probabilities for some words do not add up to 100% becauseminor categories are not listed.
)Word Grammatical Category Fiction % Exposition %Past Participle Formsadmitted past tense 77 24passives 17 67perfects 6 0adjectives 0 9observed past tense 91 22passives 9 45adjectives 0 33remembered past tense 89 20passives 2 72perfects 4 0adjectives 4 4expected past tense 54 8passives 7 77perfects 34 6adjectives 0 8knowngivenpassives 26 65perfects 65 13adjectives 6 15passives 19 71perfects 77 13adjectives 0 9more likely to occur as nouns in exposition (all greater than 80% likelihood exceptfor thinking), secure shows a similar likelihood of having an adjectival function in ex-position (80%), and the two noun/t i tu lar  noun/adject ive ambiguities are much morelikely to occur as adjectives in exposition than fiction.The third group of ambiguous forms are function words.
The probabil ity differ-ences here are less large than in the other two groups, but they are still important giventhe central grammatical  role that these items serve.
The first three of these words (un-til, before, as) are considerably more likely to occur as a subordinator in fiction thanin exposition, while they are more likely to occur as a preposit ion in exposition.
The223Computational Linguistics Volume 19, Number 2Table 2Continued.Word Grammatical Category Fiction % Exposition %Noun/Verb/Adjective Ambiguitiestrust noun 18 85verb 82 15rule noun 31 91verb 69 9thinking noun 7 56verb 92 41breathing noun 33 85verb 62 15adjective 5 0secure verb 82 20adjective 18 80major titular noun 69 11adjective 31 85representative titular noun 0 7noun 100 45adjective 0 48Function Word Ambiguitiesuntil preposition 19 38subordinator 81 62before preposition 30 54subordinator 48 32adverb 22 14as preposition 21 41subordinator 61 40that demonstrative 37 17complementizer 45 69relative pronoun 14 11word that is quite complex.
It has roughly the same likelihood of occurring as a relativepronoun in fiction and exposition, but it is more likely to occur as a demonstrat ive infiction, and more likely as a complementizer in exposition.Table 3 illustrates the same kinds of comparison for tag sequences.
Although thedifferences are not as striking, several of them are large enough to be relevant forautomatic tagging.
For example, preposit ions and nouns are considerably more likelyto follow singular nouns in exposition than in fiction.
Similarly, nouns are more likelyto follow adjectives in exposition than in fiction.
Passive verbs are considerably morelikely to follow the copula be in exposition than in fiction, while progressive verbforms are more likely to follow be in fiction.
Other differences are not great, but theyare consistent across tag sequences.Finally, comparisons of this type are also important for syntactic ambiguities,which are the bane of probabilistic parsers.
To illustrate the importance of registerdifferences in this arena, Table 4 presents frequency counts for preposit ional phrase224Douglas Biber Using Register-Diversified Corpora for General Language StudiesTable 3Comparison of probabilities for selected tag-sequences in Exposition versus Fiction(derived from analysis of tags in the LOB Corpus).
(Note: The probabilities do notadd up to 100% because minor categories are not listed.
)Grammatical Category Grammatical Categoryof First Word of Second Word Fiction % Exposition %singular noun preposition 23 31singular noun 4 8plural noun 1 4?
(full stop) 18 12, (comma) 15 11adjectivecopula bepast tense verbpresenttense verbsingular noun 42 47plural noun 12 20?
(full stop) 7 3, (comma) 8 4passive verb 13 31progressive verb 11 4indefinite article 11 17adverb 18 11preposition 15 18.
(full stop) 7 3, (comma) 6 3indefinite article 12 18adverb 13 9preposition 15 19Table 4Average frequency counts (per 1,000 words of text) and percentages forprepositional phrases attached as noun modifiers and verb modifiers inEditorials versus Fiction (based on analysis of ten-text subsamples from theLOB Corpus).Editorials FictionFrequency % Frequency %Prepositions asNoun Modifiers 38.2 46.4% 15.2Prepositions asVerb Modifiers 44.1 53.6% 56.2Total Prepositions 82.3 100.0% 71.421.3%78.7%100.0%225Computational Linguistics Volume 19, Number 2Table 5Comparison of average normalized frequencies ofcertainty adjectives in theLongman/Lancaster English Language Corpus (written texts), London/LundCorpus (spoken texts), and two specific text categories from theLongman/Lancaster Co pus (Social Science and Fiction).
(per 1 million words oftext).Frequency of Frequency of Frequency ofXXX + XXX + XXX +certain sure definiteLongman/LancasterCorpus(Written Texts) 259.0 234.0 34.9London/Lund Corpus(Spoken Texts) 292.5 426.9 19.4Selected Registers from theLongman/Lancaster Co pusSocial Science 358.7 73.8 114.2Fiction 178.5 353.1 10.8attachment, as a nominal versus verbal modifier, in ten-text subsamples taken fromeditorials and fiction.
(The tex+_s are from the LOB Corpus; these counts were done byhand.)
For editorials, this table shows that there is nearly a 50/50 split for preposi-tional phrases attached as nominal versus verbal modifiers, with a slight preferencefor nominal modifiers.
In fiction, on the other hand, there is a much greater likelihoodthat a prepositional phrase will be attached as a verbal modifier (78.7%) rather than anominal modifier (21.3%).For any automated language processing that depends on probabilistic techniques,whether part-of-speech tagging or syntactic parsing, the input probabilities are crucial.The analyses in this section suggest hat it might be advantageous to store separateprobabilities for different major registers, rather than using a single set of probabilitiesfor a general-purpose tool.
Minimally, these analyses how that input probabilitiesmust be based on the distribution of forms in a diversified corpus representing themajor register distinctions; probabilities derived from a single register are likely toproduce skewed results when applied to texts from markedly different registers.2.2 Lexicographic IssuesText corpora have proven to be invaluable resources for research on word use andmeaning, as in Sinclair's pioneering work on the COBUILD Dictionary (Sinclair 1987).In fact, corpus-based research shows that our intuitions about lexical patterns areoften incorrect (Sinclair 1991; 112 ff).
However, similar to the patterns for grammaticalstructures, for many words there is no general pattern of use that holds across thewhole language; rather, different word senses and collocational patterns are stronglypreferred in different registers.This point can be illustrated from an analysis of certainty adjectives in English(exploring in more detail some of the findings of Biber and Finegan 1989).
Table 5presents overall frequencies for three certainty adjectives--certain, sure, and de/inite--in two text corpora: the Longman/Lancaster Corpus, including written texts from ten226Douglas Biber Using Register-Diversified Corpora for General Language StudiesTable 6Comparison of frequencies of collocations for certainty adjectives in two text categories of theLongman/Lancaster English Language Corpus: Social Science and Fiction.
(Counts arenormalized per 1,000,000 words of text.
)Frequency of Frequency of Frequency of Frequency ofcertain certain sure surein Social Science in Fiction in Social Science in FictionPreceding Wordsa + 101.2" 66.3 5.8 1.7of~in~for + 56.4" 9.4 5.8 3.7 .
.
.
.there BE + 13.0" 1.1 0.0 0.0PRO BE + 5.8 21.3"* 18.8 66.0"*(excluding am~I'm)I am~I'm + 0.0 4.5" 0.0 79.9"MAKE + 2.9 4.0 30.4 38.3quite~so~pretty + 4.3 5.4 4.3 27.2"*Following Words+ kind(s) 30.4" 0.6 0.0 0.0+ amount 10.1 7.1 0.0 0.0+ of 11.6 6.8 11.6 28.9+ that 14.5 12.5 27.5 38.8+ SUBJ PRO*" 0.0 4.8*" 10.1 129.2"*+ the ~" 1.4 2.3 1.4 10.2"*+ enough 0.0 0.0 1.4 10.2"* Collocations much more common in social science than in fiction.
** Collocations much more common in fiction than in social science.
*** These collocations represent that complement clauses where the complementizer hasbeen deleted.
**** These collocations are all tokens of the idiom for sure.major text categories, and the London/Lund Corpus, made up of spoken texts fromsix major text categories.
The overall pattern shows certain and sure occurring withapproximately the same frequency in the written (Longman/Lancaster)  corpus.
In thespoken (London/Lund)  corpus, sure occurs more frequently than certain, and bothwords are more common than in the written corpus.
The word definite is relativelyrare in both corpora, although it is slightly more common in the written corpus.Further, there are striking differences across written registers in the use of thesewords.
In social science, certain is quite common, sure is relatively rare, and definiteis common relative to its frequency in the whole written corpus.
Fiction shows theopposite pattern: certain is relatively rare, sure is relatively common, and definite isquite rare.
These patterns alone show that the semantic domain of certainty in Englishcould not be adequately described without considering the patterns in complementaryregisters.Table 6 shows, however, that the actual patterns of use are even more complex.This table presents normal ized frequencies (per 1 million words of text) of the majorcollocational patterns for certain and sure, comparing the distributions in social scienceand fiction.
A single ?
is used to mark collocations that are much more common insocial science, while ~ is used to mark  collocations that are much more common227Computational Linguistics Volume 19, Number 2in fiction.
The collocational patterns (confirmed by concordance listings) identify twosurprising facts about these words: 1) certain is commonly used to mark uncertaintyrather than certainty; and 2) certainty is rarely expressed in social science at all.
Thus,the most common collocations for certain in social science reflect a kind of vagueness,marking a referent as possibly being known (by someone) but not specified in thetext (e.g., a certain kind of .
.
.
,  in certain cases .
.
.
.
there are certain indications that... ).
Thesecollocations are relatively rare in fiction.
In contrast, those collocational patterns forcertain that directly state that someone or something is certain--he/she/they/you/it + BE+ certain and I/we + BE + certain--are extremely rare in social science but relativelycommon in fiction.Unlike the word certain, the term sure is most typically used to express certainty.This is apparently the reason why the overall frequency of sure is so low in socialscience.
The difference between certain and sure, and between social science and fiction,is perhaps most striking for the collocations of pronoun + BE + certain~sure.
Thesecollocations are very common for sure in fiction; moderately common for certain infiction; but quite rare for either sure or certain in social science.These examples illustrate the point that a corpus restricted to only one registerwould enable at best a partial analysis of lexical use; and if the results were generalizedto the entire language, they would be incorrect.
Thus, the major registers of Englishmust be treated on their own terms in order to provide a comprehensive analysis ofeither grammatical structures or lexical patterns of use.3.
Multidimensional Differences among Registers in EnglishThe inherent nature of register variation in English is illustrated even more clearlyin a series of studies using the multidimensional framework (e.g., Biber 1988, 1989,1992).
These studies have shown that there are systematic patterns of variation amongregisters; that these patterns can be analyzed in terms of underlying dimensions ofvariation; and that it is necessary to recognize the existence of a multidimensionalspace in order to capture the overall relations among registers.Each dimension comprises a set of linguistic features that co-occur frequently intexts.
The dimensions are identified from a quantitative analysis of the distribution of67 linguistic features in the texts of the LOB and London-Lund Corpora.
There is spacehere for only a brief methodological overview of this approach; interested readers arereferred to Biber (1988; especially Chapters 4 and 5) for a more detailed presentation.First, texts were automatically tagged for linguistic features representing severalmajor grammatical nd functional characteristics: tense and aspect markers, place andtime adverbials, pronouns and pro-verbs, nominal forms, prepositional phrases, ad-jectives, adverbs, lexical specificity, lexical classes (e.g., hedges, emphatics), modals,specialized verb classes, reduced forms and discontinuous structures, passives, stativeforms, dependent clauses, coordination, and questions.
All texts were post-edited byhand to correct mis-tags.The frequency of each linguistic feature in each text was counted, and all countswere normalized to their occurrence per 1000 words of text.
Then a factor analysis wasrun to identify the major co-occurrence patterns among the features.
(Factor analysisis a statistical procedure that identifies groupings of linguistic features that co-occurfrequently in texts.)
So that texts and registers could be compared with respect o thedimensions, dimension scores were computed for each text by summing the major lin-guistic features grouped on each dimension.
Finally, the dimensions were interpretedfunctionally based on the assumption that linguistic features co-occur in texts because228Douglas Biber Using Register-Diversified Corpora for General Language Studiesthey share underlying communicative functions.
Similarly, the patterns of variationamong registers were interpreted from both linguistic and functional perspectives.Five major dimensions are identified and interpreted in Biber (1988; especiallyChapters 6 and 7).
3 Each comprises a distinct set of co-occurring linguistic features;each defines a different set of similarities and differences among spoken and writtenregisters; and each has distinct functional underpinnings.
The five dimensions areinterpretively abeled:1.
Informational versus Involved Production 42.
Narrative versus Nonnarrative Concerns3.
Elaborated versus Situation-Dependent Reference4.
Overt Expression of Persuasion5.
Abstract versus Nonabstract StyleThe primary communicative functions, major co-occurring features, and charac-teristic registers associated with each dimension are summarized in Table 7.
As thistable shows, registers differ systematically along each of these dimensions, relatingto functional considerations such as interactiveness, involvement, purpose, and pro-duction circumstances, all of which have marked correlates in linguistic structure.
5 Toillustrate these differences more concretely, Figure 1 presents the differences amongnine spoken and written registers within the two-dimensional space defined by Di-mension 1: ' Involved versus Informational Production' and Dimension 3: 'Elaboratedversus Situation-Dependent Reference.
'The register characterizations on Figure 1 reflect different relative frequencies ofthe linguistic features ummarized in Table 7.
For example, academic prose and news-paper reportage have the largest positive scores on Dimension 1, reflecting very fre-quent occurrences of nouns, adjectives, prepositional phrases, long words, etc.
(the'informational' features grouped on Dimension 1), together with markedly infrequentoccurrences of 1st and 2nd person pronouns, questions, reductions, etc.
(the ' involved'features on Dimension 1).
On Dimension 3, academic prose and professional lettershave the largest positive scores, reflecting very frequent occurrences of WH rela-tive clause constructions (the features associated with 'elaborated reference'), togetherwith markedly infrequent occurrences of time and place adverbials (the 'situation-dependent'  features).
At the other extreme, conversations have the largest negativescore on Dimension 1, reflecting very frequent occurrence of the ' involved' featuresgrouped on that dimension (lst and 2nd person pronouns, questions, etc.)
togetherwith markedly few occurrences of the 'informational' features (nouns, adjectives, etc.
).Conversations also have a quite large negative score on Dimension 3, although broad-casts have the largest negative score, reflecting very frequent occurrences of time andplace adverbials together with markedly few WH relative clauses, etc.3 The factorial structure was derived from a common factor analysis with a Promax rotation.
Aseven-factor solution was extracted as the most adequate, although only the first five factors arepresented here.
The first factor in the analysis accounts for 26.8% of the shared variance, while all sevenfactors together account for 51.9% of the shared variance.
Further details are given in Biber (1988).4 The polarity of Dimension 1has been reversed to aid in the comparison toDimensions 3 and 5.5 See Biber (in press, b) for a comprehensive framework comparing registers with respect to theirsituational characteristics, such as the relations among participants, purposes, productioncircumstances, and typical topics.229Computational Linguistics Volume 19, Number 2INFORMATIONALl15 +t10 +i5 +o !I 0 +ENS -5  +I i0N I- i0  +h-15  +I-20  +Ii-25  +i-30  +I-35  +IINVOLVEDNewspaperrepor tage  *Academic* p roseNewspaper* ed i to r ia l sBroadcastsQeF ic t ionP ro fess iona lle t te rs  *Persona l  *le t te rsspontaneous* speechesQConversat ions.
.
.
.
.
+ .
.
.
.
.
+ .
.
.
.
.
+ .
.
.
.
.
+ .
.
.
.
.
+- -+- -+ .
.
.
.
.
+ .
.
.
.
.
+ .
.
.
.
.
+ .
.
.
.-9  -7  -5  -3  - i  0 1 3 5 7S ITUATED ELABORATEDDIMENSION 3Figure 1Linguistic characterization f nine spoken and written registers with respect o Dimension 1('Informational versus Involved Production') and Dimension 3 ('Elaborated versusSituation-Dependent Reference').230Douglas Biber Using Register-Diversified Corpora for General Language StudiesTable 7Summary of functions, linguistic features, and characteristic registers for the five majorEnglish dimensions identified in Biber (1988).
Continued next page.Functions Linguistic features Characteristic registersDimension 1'Informational versusInvolved Production'MonologueCareful ProductionInformationalFacelessInteractive(Inter)personal FocusInvolvedPersonal StanceOn-Line ProductionDimension 2'Narrative versusNonnarrative Concerns'nouns, adjectives,prepositional phraseslong words1st and 2nd person pronounsquestions, reductionsstance verbs, hedges,emphaticsadverbial subordinationinformational expositione.g., official documentsacademic proseconversations(personal letters)(public conversations)NarrativeNonnarrativeDimension 3'Elaborated versusSituation-DependentReference'past tenseperfect aspect3rd person pronounsspeech act (public) verbspresent tenseattributive adjectivesfictionexposition, broadcastsprofessional letterstelephone conversationsSituation-IndependentReference(Elaborated)WH relative clausespied-piping constructionsphrasal coordinationofficial documentsprofessional letters(exposition)Situation-Dependent time and place broadcastsReference adverbials (conversations)On-Line Production (fiction)(personal letters)As can be seen from Figure 1, these nine registers are strikingly different in theirlinguistic characteristics, even within this two-dimensional space.
When all six dimen-sions are considered, these differences are even more notable.
Table 8 further showsthat a significant and important amount of variation among texts can be accounted forbased on the register distinctions.
It is important o emphasize here that the registercategories were not considered when the dimensions were originally identified; rather,the dimensions represent the linguistic co-occurrence patterns across texts, regardlessof their register category.
However, Table 8 shows that there are important differencesacross registers with respect o each dimension.
The F values and probabilities report231Computational Linguistics Volume 19, Number 2Table 7Continued.Functions Linguistic features Characteristic registersDimension 4'Overt Expressionof Persuasion'Overt Argumentationand PersuasionNot OvertlyArgumentativeDimension 5'Abstract versusNon-abstract Style'Abstract StyleNon-abstractmodals (prediction,necessity, possibility)suasive verbsconditional subordinationagentless passivesby passivespassive dependentclausesprofessional letterseditorialsbroadcasts(press reviews)technical prose(other academic prose)(official documents)conversations, fictionpersonal letterspublic speechespublic conversationsbroadcastsTable 8F scores and correlations for dimension scoredifferences across 23 spoken and written registers(df = 22,459).Dimension F value Probability r21 111.9 p < .001 84.3%2 32.3 p K .001 60.8%3 31.9 p < .001 60.5%4 4.2 p K .001 16.9%5 28.8 p < .001 58.0%the results of an Analysis of Variance showing that the registers are significant dis-criminators for each dimension, and the r 2 values show their strength (r 2 is a directmeasure of the percentage of variation in the dimension score that can be predictedon the basis of the register distinctions).
Four of the five dimensions have r 2 valuesover 50%, with only Dimension 4 having a relatively small r 2 value of 16.9%.
These232Douglas Biber Using Register-Diversified Corpora for General Language Studiesvalues show that the registers are strong predictors of linguistic variability along allfive dimensions.Registers are defined in terms of their situational characteristics, and they can beanalyzed at many different levels of specificity.
6 However,  there are important linguis-tic differences even among many closely related subregisters (Biber 1988; Chapter 8).
Acomplementary perspective is to analyze the total space of variation within a languagein terms of linguistically well-defined text categories, or text types (Biber 1989).
7Givena text type perspective, linguistically distinct texts within a register epresent differenttypes, while linguistically similar texts from different registers represent a single texttype.In sum, all of these analyses show that there are extensive differences amongEnglish registers with respect o a wide array of linguistic features.
A corpus restrictedto any one or two of these registers would clearly be excluding much of the Englishlanguage, linguistically as well as situationally.4.
Further Applications of Corpus-Based Analyses of Register VariationThe mult idimensional model of register variation summarized in Section 3 can be usedto address additional computational issues.
In this section, I focus on two of these: theautomated prediction of register category and cross-linguistic comparisons.4.1 Automated Prediction of RegistersOne issue of current relevance within computational linguistics is the automated pre-diction of register category, as a prel iminary step to work in information retrieval,machine translation, and other kinds of text processing.
Because the model of registervariation summarized in the last section is multidimensional, with each dimensioncomprising a different set of linguistic features and representing a different set ofrelations among registers, it is well suited to this research question.One statistical procedure commonly  used for classificatory purposes is discrimi-nant analysis.
This procedure computes the generalized squared istance between a textand each text category (or register), and the text is then automatically classified asbelonging to the closest category.
8To illustrate, Figure 2 plots the five-dimensional profiles of three target registers(academic prose, fiction, and newspaper  reportage) together with an unclassified text6 Because registers can be specified at many different levels of generality, there is no "correct" set ofregister distinctions for a language; rather, I have argued elsewhere that registers should be seen assemi-continuous (rather than discrete) constructs varying along multiple situational parameters (Biber,in press, b).
Further, since registers are defined situationally rather than on a linguistic basis, they arenot equally coherent in their linguistic haracteristics.
Some registers have quite focused norms andtherefore show little internal linguistic variation (e.g., science fiction).
Registers such as popularmagazine articles, on the other hand, include a wide range of purposes, and thus show extensivelinguistic differences among the texts within the register (cf.
the investigations in Biber 1988, Chapter 8;Biber 1990).7 The statistical procedure used to identify linguistically well-defined text types is called cluster analysis.This procedure identifies concentrations of texts uch that the texts within each cluster, or text type, aremaximally similar to one another in their linguistic haracteristics, while the types are maximallydistinct from one another.
Biber (1989) identifies eight major text types in English, which areinterpretively labeled: Intimate Interpersonal Interaction, Informational Interaction, "Scientific"Exposition, Learned Exposition, Imaginative Narrative, General Narrative Exposition, SituatedReportage, and Involved Persuasion.
Biber (in press, c) compares the text type distinctions in Englishand Somali.8 The SAS procedure PROC DISCRIM was used for the discriminant analyses in this section.233Computational Linguistics Volume 19, Number 2OOC .oCE.
- -c~1086420-2-4-6NX" ", ///t i i iDi .
1 Dim.
2 Dim.
3 Dim.
4 Dim.
5Dimension\[ --~- Acaclemic Prose --m- Fiction x Newspaper Report ~ Unclassifed Text \]Figure 2Five-dimensional distance profile of unclassified text to three target registers.
(which is in fact a social science academic article).
9With respect o Dimensions I and 4,the unclassified text is about equidistant to the mean scores for academic prose andnewspaper reportage, but along Dimensions 2, 3, and 5, the unclassified text is muchcloser to the target means for academic prose.
Generalizing over all five dimensions,this text has the smallest distance to academic prose and would be classified into thatcategory.The predictive power of this five-dimensional model of variation was tested atthree levels of abstraction.
The first test was based on texts from three high-level reg-ister categories: newspaper articles (including press reportage, editorials, and reviews),academic prose (including humanities, social science, medicine, natural science, andengineering), and fiction.
Table 9 presents the discriminant analysis results for thesecategories.
The top part of the table presents the calibration results: the model wastrained on 118 texts from these three categories and then used to classify the same9 To aid in comparison across dimensions, all dimension scores in Figure 2 have been converted to acommon scale of plus-or-minus 10.
The scaling coefficients are:Dimension 1: .27Dimension 2:1.39Dimension 3:1.11Dimension 4:2.27Dimension 5:1.82234Douglas Biber Using Register-Diversified Corpora for General Language StudiesTable 9Automatic lassification of texts into three general register categories (fiction,academic prose, newspaper articles), based on a discriminant analysis usingfive underlying dimensions.Calibration results: Classification of the 118 texts used to derive thediscriminant functionFromNewspapersAcademicProseFictionNumber of Observations and Percent Classified into:Newspapers Academic Prose Fiction Total37 6 0 4386.05% 13.95% 0.00% 100.00%9 31 0 4022.50% 77.50% 0.00% 100.00%3 0 32 358.57% 0.00% 91.43% 100.00%Test results: Classification of 124 'unknown' textsFromNewspapersNumber of Observations and Percent Classified into:Newspapers Academic Prose Fiction Total31 13 1 4568.89% 28.89% 2.22% 100.00%Academic 11 29 0 40Prose 27.50% 72.50% 0.00% 100.00%Fiction 6 0 33 3915.38% 0.00% 84.62% 100.00%texts.
The rates for successful prediction are high in all three cases.
This model  wasthen tested on a new set of 124 'unknown'  texts; the rates for successful classificationare still high (ranging from 68.89% to 84.62%), although not as high as in the calibrationdata.
Academic prose and fiction are clearly distinguished, with no misclassificationsbetween these two groups.
Newspaper  texts are less sharply distinguished from theother two categories: 28.89% of the newspaper  texts are incorrectly classified as aca-demic prose; 27.5% of the academic prose texts are incorrectly classified as newspapertexts; and 15.38% of the fiction texts are incorrectly classified as newspaper  texts.
Over-all, though, the large majority of texts in these three categories are correctly classifiedby the five-dimensional model.Table 10 shows that roughly the same success rate can be achieved at a more spe-cific level of prediction: distinguishing among press reportage, editorials, and reviewswithin newspapers.
The calibration model  shows success rates ranging from 69.23% to87.5% for these three categories, and the test data are correctly predicted at comparablerates (ranging from 68.18% to 92.86%).Finally, Table 11 applies this technique at a much more specific level, attempting todiscriminate among four kinds of press reportage that differ primari ly in their contentdomains: political, sports, spot news, and financial reportage.
In this case, only the235Computational Linguistics Volume 19, Number 2Table 10Automatic lassification of texts into three specific press registers (pressreportage, press reviews, press editorials), based on a discriminant analysisusing five underlying dimensions.Calibration results: Classification of the 43 newspaper textsused to derive the discriminant functionFromReportageEditorialsReviewsNumber of Observations and Percent Classified into:Reportage Editorials Reviews Total16 4 2 2272.73% 18.18% 9.09% 100.00%1 9 3 137.69% 69.23% 23.08% 100.00%1 0 7 812.50% 0.00% 87.50% 100.00%Test results: Classification of 45 'unknown' textsFromReportageNumber of Observations and Percent Classified into:Reportage Editorials Reviews Total15 2 5 2268.18% 9.09% 22.73% 100.00%Editorials 0 13 1 140.00% 92.86% 7.14% 100.00%Reviews 1 1 7 911.11% 11.11% 77.78% 100.00%calibration results are reported because of the small sample size.
The results indicate,however, a high success rate (ranging from 61.54% to 85.71%), suggesting that thisapproach can be profitably used for prediction among closely related subregisters orsublanguages.The predictive power of this technique is only as robust as the underlying modelof variation.
In the present case, that model represents multiple dimensions of lin-guistic variation derived from analysis of a register-diversified corpus, and the resultsachieved are generally robust for the successful prediction of different kinds of text atquite different levels of abstraction.4.2 Cross-Linguistic Compar isonsThe analysis of parallel text corpora in different languages has received considerableattention in recent years, usually in relation to research on information retrieval andmachine translation.
Many researchers dealing with these issues from a register per-spective have focused on the computational nalysis of sublanguages, a subsystem ofa language that operates within a particular domain of use with restricted subjectmatter (see Kittredge and Lehrberger 1982; Grishman and Kittredge 1986).
Processing236Douglas Biber Using Register-Diversified Corpora for General Language StudiesTable 11Automatic lassification of34 newspaper reportage texts into four contentareas (political reportage, sports reportage, spot news reportage, financialreportage), based on a discriminant analysis using five underlyingdimensions.FromPoliticalSportsSpot NewsFinancialNumber of Observations and Percent Classified into:Political Sports Spot News Financial Total8 2 2 1 1361.54% 15.38% 15.38% 7.69% 100.00%0 6 0 1 70.00% 85.71% 0.00% 14.29% 100.00%1 0 8 1 1010.00% 0.00% 80.00% 10.00% 100.00%0 1 0 3 40.00% 25.00% 0.00% 75.00% 100.00%research in this area has achieved high levels of success by focusing on very restrictedtextual domains.Kittredge (1982) adopts a variation perspective, comparing the extent of sublan-guage differences within and across languages.
Some of the provocative conclusionsof that study are:"the written style of English and French tended to be more similar inspecialized technical texts than in general language texts" (1982, p.
108).
"parallel sublanguages of English and French are much more similarstructurally than are dissimilar sublanguages of the same language.Parallel sublanguages seem to correspond more closely when the domainof reference is a technical one" (1982, p. 108).The multidimensional framework provides a complementary approach to theseissues.
From a linguistic perspective, dimensions are more readily compared cross-linguistically than individual features, since structurally similar features often servequite different functional roles across languages.
Similarly, cross-linguistic comparisonsof individual registers are more readily interpretable when they are situated relativeto the range of other registers in each language, since the 'same' registers can servequite different functions across languages when considered relative to their respectiveregister systems.To date, there have been multidimensional analyses of register variation in fourlanguages: English (summarized in Section 3), Nukulaelae Tuvaluan (Besnier 1988),Korean (Kim and Biber in press), and Somali (Biber and Hared 1992, in press).
Ineach case, the description is based on analysis of a diversified corpus representing awide range of spoken and written registers.
The cross-linguistic patterns of variationrepresented by these four languages, both synchronic and diachronic, are discussed inBiber (in press, c).237Computational Linguistics Volume 19, Number 2Table 12Summary of functions, linguistic features, and characteristic registers for the five major Somalidimensions identified in Biber and Hared (1992).Functions Linguistic Features Characteristic RegistersDimension 1Interactive(Inter)personal focusInvolvedPersonal Stance(On-Line Production)MonologueInformationalFaceless(Careful Production)Dimension 2main clause featuresquestions, imperativescontractionsstance adjectivesdowntoners1st and 2nd person pronounsdependent clausesrelative clausesclefts, verb complementsnouns, adjectivesconversationsfamily meetingsconversationalnarrativeswritten expositoryregistersOn-Line Production(Situation Dependent)Careful ProductionInformationalDimension 3once-occurring wordshigh type/token rationominalizationscompound verbssports broadcast(other spokenregisters)editorialswritten politicalspeeches and pamphletsanalytical pressOvert ArgumentationPersuasionReported PresentationDimension 4present tense, adjectivespossibility modalsconcession conjunctsconditional clausespast tenseproper and agentive nounsfuture modalsfamily and formalmeetingsgeneral interest andanalytical press(invited editorials)press reportage(folk stories)Narrative Discourse 3rd person pronounspast tense verbstemporal clausesclefts, habitual modalsfolk stories(serial stories)(general fiction)Non-narrative compound nouns petitionsDiscourse gerunds, agentive nouns announcementsmemosTo illustrate, the multidimensional nalysis of English (discussed above; see Ta-ble 7) can be compared with the multidimensional patterns of variation in Somali, sum-marized in Table 12.
Both languages represent many of the same functional consider-ations in their dimensional structure, including interactiveness, involvement, produc-238Douglas Biber Using Register-Diversified Corpora for General Language StudiesTable 12Continued.Functions Linguistic Features Characteristic RegistersDimension 5InteractiveDistanced and DirectiveCommunicationNon-interactiveNon-directiveoptative clauses1st and 2nd person pronounsdirectional particlesimperativespersonal letters(family meetings)(Quranic exposition)press reportageand editorialswritten expositoryregisterstion circumstances, informational focus, personal stance, and narrative purposes.
Thereare also many similarities in the co-occurrence patterns among linguistic features.
Forexample, first and second person pronouns, downtoners, tance features, contractions,and questions group together in both languages as markers of involvement; nounsand adjectives group together in both languages as markers of an informational fo-cus; third person pronouns and past tense verbs group together in both languagesas markers of narration.
In other respects, though, the multi-dimensional structure ofthe two languages differ.
For example, Somali has two dimensions marking differentkinds of interaction plus a third dimension relating to production circumstances; all ofthese functions are combined into a single dimension in English (Dimension 1).
Con-versely, English Dimension 5marks a passive, abstract style, which has no counterpartin Somali.One of the surprising findings from the comparison of all four languages (includ-ing Nukulaelae Tuvaluan and Korean) is the extent of the cross-linguistic similarities(see Biber, in press, c).
Thus, all four languages have multiple dimensions reflectingoral/literate differences, interactiveness, production circumstances, and an informa-tional focus; these dimensions are defined by similar kinds of linguistic features, andanalogous registers have similar cross-linguistic characterizations along these dimen-sions.
In addition, two functional domains that relate to purpose are marked in allfour languages: personal stance (toward the content) and narration.
These dimensionsalso have similar structural correlates across the languages.In contrast, there are fewer major differences among these languages in their pat-terns of register variation.
Dimensions relating to argumentation/persuasion are foundin only some languages, and there are other dimensions particular to a single language(such as abstract style in English, and honorification in Korean).
Analogous registersshow some differences cross-linguistically with respect o these latter dimensions plusthe purpose-related dimensions mentioned above (e.g., marking personal stance ornarration).Findings such as these are directly relevant o several of the issues raised in re-cent studies of sublanguages, since they can be used to specify the linguistic relationsamong sublanguages both within and across languages.
In particular, these analysessupport Kittredge's (1982) conclusion that parallel sublanguages across languages aremore similar in their linguistic structure than are dissimilar sublanguages within thesame language.
Romaine (in press) discusses similar findings in a comparison of sports239Computational Linguistics Volume 19, Number 2reportage in Tok Pisin and English.
The multidimensional comparisons summarizedhere show that even when registers are defined at a high level of generality (e.g., con-versation, fiction, academic prose), and even when comparisons are across markedlydifferent language families and cultures, parallel registers are indeed more similarcross-linguistically than are disparate registers within a single language.5.
ConclusionIn the present paper I have presented evidence from several different structural levels,as well as different languages, showing that there are important and systematic lin-guistic differences among registers.
These data are used to argue for the general pointthat corpora representing a broad range of register variation are required as the basisfor general anguage studies.
In fact, the extent of register differences reported heresuggests that overall inguistic characterizations of a language are often inadequate (oreven incorrect).
That is, since overall generalizations represent a kind of averaging ofthe linguistic patterns in a language, they often do not accurately represent the actualpatterns of any register; in fact, such generalizations can conceal the systematic pat-terns found across registers.
An alternative approach is to recognize the centrality ofregister differences and work toward a composite linguistic description of a languagein those terms.Corpus-based analyses of register variation obviously need to be extended in sev-eral ways.
Future research should be based on larger corpora and include a widerrepresentation f linguistic features and registers.
In addition, register distinctions canbe made at several levels of abstraction, and the intersection of register and text typeanalyses needs to be further explored (see notes 6 and 7).
The analyses ummarizedhere, though, clearly show the importance of a register perspective, supporting thecontinuing development and analysis of large register-diversified corpora as the basisfor general anguage studies.AcknowledgmentsParts of this paper were presented at theFirst Workshop of the Consortium forLexical Research, New Mexico StateUniversity (January 1992) and at the PisaWorkshop on Textual Corpora, Universityof Pisa (January 1992).
I would like to thankthe workshop articipants, as well as twoanonymous reviewers for CL, for theirhelpful suggestions for revision.ReferencesAltenberg, Bengt (1991).
"A bibliography ofpublications relating to English computercorpora."
In English Computer Corpora:Selected Papers and Research Guide, editedby S. Johansson and A.-B.
Stenstr6m,355-396.
Mouton.Besnier, Niko (1988).
"The linguisticrelationships of spoken and writtenNukulaelae registers."
Language, 64,707-736.Biber, Douglas (1988).
Variation across Speechand Writing.
Cambridge University Press.Biber, Douglas (1989).
"A typology ofEnglish texts."
Linguistics, 27, 3-43.Biber, Douglas (1990).
"Methodologicalissues regarding corpus-based analyses oflinguistic variation."
Literary and LinguisticComputing, 5, 257-269.Biber, Douglas (1992).
"On the complexity ofdiscourse complexity: A multidimensionalanalysis."
Discourse Processes, 15, 133-163.Biber, Douglas (in press, a).
"Representativeness in corpus design."
InProceedings ofthe Pisa Workshop on TextualCorpora, edited by A. Zampolli.University of Pisa.Biber, Douglas (in press, b).
"Towards acomprehensive analytical framework forregister studies."
In Perspectives onRegister: Situating Register Variation withinSociolinguistics, edited by D. Biber andE.
Finegan.
Oxford University Press.Biber, Douglas (in press, c).
Dimensions ofRegister Variation: A Cross-LinguisticComparison.
Cambridge University Press.Biber, Douglas, and Finegan, Edward (1989).
"Styles of stance in English: Lexical andgrammatical marking of evidentiality andaffect."
Text, 9, 93-124.240Douglas Biber Using Register-Diversified Corpora for General Language StudiesBiber, Douglas, and Hared, Mohamed(1992).
"Dimensions of register variationin Somali."
Language Variation and Change,4, 41-75.Biber, Douglas, and Hared, Mohamed (inpress).
"Linguistic orrelates of thetransition to literacy in Somali: Languageadaptation i six press registers."
InPerspectives onRegister: Situating RegisterVariation within Sociolinguistics, edited byD.
Biber and E. Finegan.
OxfordUniversity Press.Fitzpatrick, Eileen; Bachenko, Joan; andHindle, Don (1986).
"The status oftelegraphic sublanguages."
In AnalyzingLanguage in Restricted Domains: SublanguageDescription and Processing, edited by RalphGrishman and Richard Kittredge, 39-54.Lawrence Erlbaum.Francis, W. N., and Ku~era, H. (1964).Manual of Information to Accompany aStandard Corpus of Present-Day EditedAmerican English, for Use with DigitalComputers.
Department of Linguistics,Brown University.Grishman, Ralph, and Kittredge, Richard,editors (1986).
Analyzing Language inRestricted Domains: Sublanguage Descriptionand Processing.
Lawrence Erlbaum.Johansson, Stig; Leech, Geoffrey N.; andGoodluck, Helen (1978).
Manual ofInformation to Accompany theLancaster-Oslo/Bergen Corpus of BritishEnglish, for Use with Digital Computers.Department of English, University ofOslo.Kim, Yong-Jin, and Biber, Douglas (in press).
"A corpus-based analysis of registervariation in Korean."
In Perspectives onRegister: Situating Register Variation withinSociolinguistics, edited by D. Biber andE.
Finegan.
Oxford University Press.Kittredge, Richard (1982).
"Variation andhomogeneity of sublanguages."
InSublanguage: Studies of Language inRestricted Semantic Domains, edited byRichard Kittredge and John Lehrberger,107-137.
De Gruyter.Kittredge, Richard, and Lehrberger, John,editors (1982).
Sublanguage: Studies ofLanguage in Restricted Semantic Domains.De Gruyter.Lehrberger, John (1982).
"Automatictranslation and the concept ofsublanguage."
In Sublanguage: Studies ofLanguage in Restricted Semantic Domains,edited by Richard Kittredge and JohnLehrberger, 81-106.
De Gruyter.Romaine, Suzanne (in press).
"On thecreation and expansion of registers: Sportsreporting in Tok Pisin."
In Perspectives onRegister: Situating Register Variation withinSociolinguistics, edited by D. Biber andE.
Finegan.
Oxford University Press.Sager, Naomi (1986).
"Sublanguage:Linguistic phenomenon, computationaltool."
In Analyzing Language in RestrictedDomains: Sublanguage Description andProcessing, edited by Ralph Grishman andRichard Kittredge, 1-18.
LawrenceErlbaum.Sinclair, John, editor (1987).
Looking Up.Collins.Sinclair, John (1991).
Corpus, Concordance,Collocation.
Oxford University Press.Tottie, Gunnel (1986).
"The importance ofbeing adverbial: Adverbials of focusingand contingency in spoken and writtenEnglish."
In English in Speech and Writing:A Symposium, edited by G. Tottie andI.
B~icklund, 93-118.
Almqvist andWiksell.241
