A Computational Theory of Goal-DirectedStyle in SyntaxChrysanne D iMarco"University of WaterlooGraeme H i rs t  tUniversity of TorontoThe problem of style is highly relevant o computational linguistics, but current systems dealonly superficially, if at all, with subtle but significant nuances of language.
Expressive ffects,together with their associated meaning, contained in the style of a text are lost to analysis andabsent from generation.We have developed an approach to the computational treatment of style that is intendedto eventually incorporate three selected components--lexical, syntactic, and semantic.
In thispaper, we concentrate on certain aspects of syntactic style.
We have designed and implemented acomputational theory of goal-directed stylistics that can be used in various applications, includingmachine translation, second-language instruction, and natural anguage generation.We have constructed a vocabulary of style that contains both primitive and abstract elementsof style.
The primitive lements describe the stylistic effects of individual sentence components.These elements are combined into patterns that are described by a stylistic meta-language, theabstract elements, that define the concordant and discordant stylistic effects common to a group ofsentences.
Higher-level patterns are built from the abstract elements and associated with specificstylistic goals, such as clarity or concreteness.
Thus, we have defined rules for a syntactic stylisticgrammar at three interrelated levels of description: primitive lements, abstract elements, andstylistic goals.
Grammars for both English and French have been constructed, using the samevocabulary and the same development methodology.
Parsers that implement these grammars havealso been built.The stylistic grammars codify aspects of language that were previously defined only descrip-tively.
The theory is being applied to various problems in which the form of an utterance conveysan essential part of meaning and so must be precisely represented and understood.1.
Introduction1.1 An Advocacy of StyleUnderstanding a text requires more than just understanding its propositional content.It requires a sensitivity to the interaction of semantic ontent, emotional expression,and interpersonal nd situational attitudes.
This interaction is reflected in the style ofthe text.
Style in language is not just surface appearance, a decorative veneer.
Rather, itis an essential part of meaning, part of the author's communication to the reader.
So tofully understand the nuances of a text, one must determine not only the propositionalcontent, but also how its communicative effect is colored by the form, which reflectsaffective content.
While propositional content provides the basic tone, the expressive* Department ofComputer Science, University of Waterloo, Waterloo, Ontario, Canada N2L 3G1.t Department ofComputer Science, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada M5S 1A4.?
1993 Association for Computational LinguisticsComputational Linguistics Volume 19, Number 3form provides the tonal quality.
Together, form and content create style, that whichdistinguishes both an individual text and a collective body of writing.Style is created through subtle variation, seemingly minor modulations of exactlywhat is said, the words used to say it, and the syntactic onstructions employed, butthe resulting effect on communication can be striking.
Consider the following versionsof the same text, Matthew 7:27:1.
And descended the storm and came the floods and blew the winds andbeat against hat house and it fell and the fall of it was great.
(Literaltranslation of the Hellenistic Greek.)2.
And the rain descended, and the floods came, and the winds blew, andbeat upon that house; and it fell: and great was the fall of it.
(RevisedStandard Version, 1952.)3.
The rain came down, the floods rose, the wind blew, and beat upon thathouse; down it fell with a great crash.
(The New English Bible, 1970.)4.
Rain came down, floods rose, gales blew and struck that house, and itfell; and what a fall it had!
(The New Jerusalem Bible, 1985.)5.
The rains fell, the torrents came, the winds blew and lashed against hishouse.
It collapsed under all this and was completely ruined.
(The NewAmerican Bible, 1973.
)The first variation, a word-by-word translation from the Hellenistic Greek, is actuallya good deal less striking than subsequent, widely accepted versions.
The placementof the verbs before their subjects is quite normal and the closing is also quite usual.The sense of discord and resulting poetic effect is not as evident as it is in the secondvariation, from the Revised Standard Version, which is resoundingly poetic in theimitative form of the first five clauses, followed by the inverted form of the final clause.The text begins in strong concord and dissolves into discord, but not unpleasingly so.Discord, as we use the term in this paper, refers to a deviation from the norm, but suchdeviations can be used to good effect.
As we will see, in language as in music, it is oftenthrough the construction of patterns of concord and discord, particular combinationsof order and disorder that create an overall harmonious arrangement, that certainstylistic effects are achieved.In versions 3 and 4, the dramatic effect of the closing has been retained from theRSV translation but through different choices of words and structure.
In 3, the lastclause is inverted, but the translator has chosen to place more emphasis upon thefall itself (down it fell) than its magnitude (great).
Example 4 ends on an intense note,achieved through the use of an exclamation (what a fall it had!
), rather than an inversionof syntactic structure.
And no single word expresses the degree of magnitude of thefall.
In the final example, 5, the drama and intensity of the RSV has been lost withthe removal of the dissolution from initial concord to final discord.
In this case, thetranslator has opted for plainness and clarity, even at the expense of beauty.In English, example 1 sounds odd and disjointed; and examples 2, 3, and 4 aredramatic in a way that example 5 is not.
But all have the same essential content.
Whatthen causes the differences in effect?
What is being varied?
There are at least fourparameters that play a role in these stylistic variations: lexical, syntactic, thematic, andsemantic aspects.452Chrysanne DiMarco and Graeme Hirst Goal-Directed Style in SyntaxLex ica l  aspects :  Compare xample 4 to the following constructed versions: 16.
Rain descended, floods rose, gales raged and beat upon that dwelling,and it collapsed; and what a fall it had!7.
Rain fell, the water level rose, winds blew and hit that house, and it fell;and what a fall it had!The differences between 4, 6, and 7 are primarily lexical.
Example 6 uses rather ele-gant words, while 7 opts for a more commonplace vocabulary, and 4 lies somewherebetween the two in lexical formality.Syntax: Comparing example 2 to example 5, we see that the former uses syntacticstructures that create more dramatic effects: a short climactic sentence, and it fell, anda striking inversion, great was the fall of it, close the text on a powerful note.
In contrast,5 ends with a very ordinary, unremarkable, construction.Thematic aspects: Comparing example 2 to example 3, we observe that the two sen-tence structures bring different elements into focus: great was the fall of it, in contrastto down it fell with a great crash.
In general, variations in thematic structure can createdifferent stylistic effects.Semant ics :  The exact choice of what is said, or not said, also has stylistic onsequences.Compare xample 4 to the following two constructed versions:..A serious torm, with rain and gales and floods, struck that house,which collapsed.Rain fell and fell and eventually caused a flood, which rose up to thathouse; also the winds kept blowing until eventually the combined forcesof rain, flood, and wind were too great and caused so much structuraldamage that the house collapsed.These variations differ in their semantic ontent: example 4 merely reports the events,but 8 evaluates, a serious storm, while 9 emphasizes technical details, structural damage.These semantic differences are reflected in the texts; and stylistic differences result.Given that these four parameters--lexical hoice, syntax, theme, and semantics--control stylistic variations, two questions arise:?
How do we characterize each type of variation??
How does each variation contribute to an overall stylistic effect?In considering these questions in this paper, we will concentrate on variations of thesyntactic parameter.We emphasize that our intent here is not any form of literary analysis or literarytheory.
Our main concern will be ordinary, everyday text.
It is true that, in the Biblicaltexts above, we saw how different syntactic forms carry different stylistic import o thepoint that one form may be poetry while another is just dull, plodding prose.
But style1 We thank Eduard Hovy for constructing examples 6 through 9.453Computational Linguistics Volume 19, Number 3isn't just a matter of achieving poetry or not.
Every text, large or small, interesting ordull, effective or not, has its own style.
Nor are we talking about style in any of itsnormative senses: the common tenets dictating standard forms (e.g., Chicago 1982), orthe textbook prescriptions for 'good' style: be clear, be simple, be precise (e.g., Strunkand White 1979).
For people aim to convince, to persuade, to impress, and, even,sometimes to obscure, and standard textbooks tell us very little about such varied andsubtle stylistic and pragmatic goals.Rather than a study of literary or normative style, our intent is to determinewhat gives any ordinary piece of text its stylistic 'feel.'
The following examples willdemonstrate what we have in mind.
These texts are all from newspaper feature articles:10.
Silvia, a commanding woman in her 50% a shrew falsely mellowed byreligion, promptly organized prayer sessions on the lines of Tupperwaremeetings.
211.
The artist provides a dreamy background one in yellow and bistrebrushstrokes to a blue gown with woodenly rigid folds or the profile ofa brown angel painted so mineral hard and modeled so carefully that theincoherence of virtue does it injury.
312.
Crazed with fear, he tried to purify her by dunking her in the ocean andholding her under the water; then in desperation he threw her on thestill-smoking pyreo 4In a newspaper, we might have expected the writer and translator to have simplyaimed for clarity.
In fact, we find a variety of effects.
The first text, 10, emphasizes asense of harmony by repeating the same kind of structure, a nominal group, in thepostmodification f Silvia.
The second, 11, is more complex, and achieves a certainbalance in the judicious use of conjunctions; but the result is so difficult o understandthat it doesn't really make sense.
Text 12 has a stark initial participle clause, crazedwith fear, that emphasizes the intensity of the subject's emotional state.To account for the kinds of complex stylistic effects that occur even in everydaywriting, we propose a goal-directed understanding of style.
That is, an author's in-tent can vary with respect o a number of stylistic goals, such as clarity or obscurity,abstraction or concreteness, taticness or dynamism.
Particular choices of words, syn-tactic structure, and semantic structure make a text more--or less--stylistically variedand effective.
We believe that these choices, goals such as abstraction or concreteness,and the stylistic elements that are used to realize them can be recognized and repre-sented in a formal notation.
They are, in a word, codifiable.
It is this codification thatis at the heart of computational stylistics.
S1.2 The Function of StylePropositional content alone is insufficient to determine the nature and form of a sen-tence (Halliday 1985; McDonald and Pustejovsky 1985; Jameson 1987; Hovy 1988; Scott2 Adapted from The Manchester Guardian Weekly, 7 February 1988.
Translated from Le Monde.3 The Manchester Guardian Weekly, 14 February 1988.
Translated from Le Monde..4 The Manchester Guardian Weekly, 7 February 1988, with minor punctuation corrections.
Translated fromLe Monde.5 The term computational stylistics has been used by Milic (1982) to describe what might better be calledcomputer-aided stylistics, in which computer-generated data and pattern-matching aid human analysisand judgment of style in literary studies (see Section 2.2).
In contrast, our use of the term entails fullyautomatic omputer analysis of the style of any kind of text.454Chrysanne DiMarco and Graeme Hirst Goal-Directed Style in Syntaxand de Souza 1990).
Even after the propositional content has been decided upon, thereare still many linguistic, syntactic, and even semantic decisions that the language pro-ducer must make before a sentence can be formed.
These decisions are assumed bythe audience not to have been made randomly, but rather in specific, deliberate waysthat encode additional information, such as opinion, emotional affect, and interper-sonal relationships.
6 To the extent hat a piece of text exhibits a particular, recognizablestyle, it also reflects the author 's  presumed intent to convey the effect associated withthat style.
Therefore, full understanding of a text must represent not only propositionalcontent, but also stylistic effects.This becomes most apparent in the case of machine translation.
If a translation isto be faithful, the stylistic effects of the source language text must be transferred to thetarget language text, making appropriate use of the stylistic conventions of the targetlanguage.
But a di lemma arises:?
One wants to preserve the original author 's  tylistic intent, theinformation being conveyed through the manner of presentation.However, different languages might realize this effect in different ways.So the source and target texts should both aim for the author 's  stylisticgoal, but might have to achieve it through different linguistic means.
7?
Yet one wants to produce a text whose style is appropriate and naturalto the particular target language.
Languages differ as to the most'natural '  way to express an idea.
For example, French tends to prefermore abstraction, English more concreteness (Vinay and Darbelnet 1958).The best translation, therefore, might modify the original author 's  tylisticintent and express a different effect.Sometimes, there is no way to resolve this di lemma, and one is left with an unsat-isfactory translation.
But, with a knowledge of the comparative stylistics of a languagepair, and of the stylistic resources of each language and the possible range of effectsthey can create, one can substantially improve the quality of a translation.1.3 The Structure of the PaperOur goal is to create a formal representation of stylistics for use in natural languagesystems, and, moreover, to do so in a manner applicable to different languages.
Thesolution we will propose is a codification of syntactic stylistic knowledge in the formof a stylistic grammar.In the next section, we will review the current status of the codification of style.In Section 3, we will construct a vocabulary for stylistics.
The definition of conceptsand the attempt o organize them into a recognizable structure is a necessary first steptoward understanding the problem.
Then we will develop in Section 4 a methodologyfor converting stylistic knowledge into a formal representation.
The methodology will6 Thus the speaker or writer is accountable forhis or her stylistic decisions, in the sense that that term isused in Ethnomethodology and Conversation Analysis.
A person encountering friends on the street,for example, may choose to greet hem or not, but is held accountable either way--failure to greet is asnub; it is not possible to opt out of the situation altogether (Heritage 1984).
Similarly, a speaker orwriter is accountable for all the stylistic nuances of his or her utterances; it is not possible to utter asentence in such a way that only the propositional content counts and not the form in which it isexpressed.7 "Economy is expressed at two levels, lexical and syntactic, which may, however, be related: what isexpressed lexically in one language may be realized through syntactic means in the other, and viceversa" (Vinay and Darbelnet 1958, p. 185, authors" translation).455Computational Linguistics Volume 19, Number 3be as general as possible, ideally applicable to the codification of style for the sen-tence and paragraph levels; appropriate for lexical, syntactic, and semantic style; andapplicable to both English and French.
The methodology will be used in conjunctionwith the stylistic vocabulary to guide the systematic collection and creation of stylisticrules.
This grammar will provide a formal description of the syntactic patterns thatdifferentiate he various stylistic goals.In addition to theoretical problems, there are implementation issues to be ad-dressed as well.
In Section 5, we will describe the development of a stylistic parser thatuses the formal bodies of rules to analyze complex English text.In the last section, we will review the contributions of the paper and discusscompleted and ongoing extensions to the research.2.
Background to the Study of Style2.1 Views of Style2.1.1 The Classical View.
The study of style has an ancient history, for the conceptfirst appeared in the fifth century B.C.
Scholars of the time conceived the notion thatthe rhetorical form of a writer's text should reflect his thoughts and intentions.
Thiswas to be achieved through the appropriate choice and organization of words andsyntactic structures in order to "evoke the desired response" (Corbett 1971).
Contentand form were recognized as inseparable, and as exerting a reciprocal influence uponeach other.Beginning with Corax of Syracuse, rhetoricians developed methods for systematicinstruction in the art of writing.
The classical scholars, from Isocrates and Aristotleto Cicero and Quintilian, established standards of rhetoric that influenced curriculafor centuries.
The contribution of Aristotle was particularly notable.
He counteredPlato's argument that rhetoric was mere sophistry, deceitful reasoning, by providing asystem of instruction that treated the theory and practice of style as a valid discipline,designed to appeal simultaneously to reason and emotion.This classical approach to style flourished into the Middle Ages, for it formed partof a standard university education.
The teaching of formal rhetoric in schools anduniversities continued to play a significant role throughout the Renaissance and intothe 18th century.
However, in the 19th century, the teaching of rhetoric gave way tothe teaching of composition, which came to be associated merely with a set of basicprescriptive rules.
This approach was in direct contrast to the original classical theorythat stressed the education of the whole person as a preparation for achieving style inwriting (Corbett 1971).2.1.2 The Modern View.
Today, the common view of style is still one of conformityto standard good taste and an avoidance of bad form.
Textbooks (Fowler 1968; Strunkand White 1979; Kane 1983; Grevisse 1986) promote the idea that there is a universaland correct mode of expression.
However, normative rules, while necessary in somedegree so that communication is possible at all, may, if too inflexible, deaden theexpression of a writer's individual voice.
Universal rules of good style are best used,we suggest, simply as a guide to avoiding bad constructions and obstacles to clearwriting, but not as a basis for a theory of stylistic effects in text.2.1.3 Our View.
In computational pplications, where we expect o deal with largeamounts of similar types of text, the analysis of group style is of more interest than theidiosyncratic style of any one writer.
Group style can be subdivided into two majortypes, each associated with a different view of stylistics: literary style and utilitarian456Chrysanne DiMarco and Graeme Hirst Goal-Directed Style in Syntax(or functional) style.
Utilitarian group styles are distinguished from the literary type bytheir association with a genre of text that has a particular function or purpose, such asmedical textbooks or political newspaper writing.
In such styles, the writer adjusts herlanguage to what readers expect in a specific situation.
The fact that functional groupstyles are somewhat more restrictive than literary group styles, as they are characteristicof a particular genre, suggests that the problem of codifying utilitarian style will bemore tractable than the literary case.
For this reason, we will focus on utilitarian textsin general, drawing most of our examples from newspaper and magazine journalism.
(Our main source of examples is the English translations, published in The GuardianWeekly, 8of articles from Le Monde.
)2.2 The Current State of Computational StylisticsMost of the research to date in computational stylistics has been the developmentof so-called style-checkers.
The UNix-based Writer's Workbench, Grammatik I and II,RightWriter, PC-Style, Punctuation and Style, Electric Webster, and CRITIQUE are ex-amples (Raskin 1986).
However, none of these systems is appropriate for our purposes.These programs enforce the basic virtues: be clear, be simple, be precise.
They merelycheck for common grammatical errors such as number disagreement, pronoun caseproblems, unbalanced punctuation, split infinitives, excessive sentence length, and ex-cessive sentence complexity.
There is no systematic approach to constructing a vocab-ulary of style, no structured representation f stylistic rules.
Stylistic knowledge maysimply consist, as in the case of CRITIQUE, of an unstructured mass of rules (Jensenet al 1986, p. 190).
These programs have no real understanding of the significance ofstylistic parameters.The other main kind of computational research in stylistics has been statistical (e.g.,Cluett 1976, 1990; Milic 1982; Biber 1988, 1989).
With this approach, a count is made ofthe number of occurrences in a sample text of a stylistically significant feature, suchas an initial prepositional phrase.
A statistical analysis is done to compare the countand type of stylistic features with the corresponding parameters of texts written byauthors working in the same or different genres.
But the interpretation of the statisticalresults must be done by a human; the computer system has no real understanding ofwhat the variations in style mean.Although virtually all computational research in stylistics takes a non-AI approachto the representation a d use of stylistic knowledge, the usefulness and degree of so-phistication of some of these programs hould not be underestimated.
The York Com-puter Inventory of Prose Style (Cluett 1976, 1990) has been undergoing developmentsince 1970.
The principal contribution of the project is its convincing demonstrationthat the richness and subtlety of literary style could in fact be correlated, to a perhapssurprising degree of accuracy, with a catalog of syntactic patterns.
But the programthat performs the stylistic analysis has no understanding of the meaning of its statis-tical results; it relies on human interpretation of the statistics computed.
Nevertheless,the York project's findings are still very useful, as they have catalogued the syntacticfeatures that produce particular stylistic effects.Thus, most current approaches in computational stylistics have not included for-mal stylistic rules, which are clearly a desirable prerequisite.
We now review the extentto which such rules have been developed in theoretical stylistics and used in compu-tational stylistics.The title of Vinay and Darbelnet's (1958) book, Stylistique comparde du fran?ais et de8 Formerly The Manchester Guardian Weekly.457Computational Linguistics Volume 19, Number 3l'anglais, is somewhat misleading, for their purpose was not just to deal with com-parative stylistics in translation, but also to enumerate the more common rules andprocedures in the overall translation process.
But they did not construct a specific vo-cabulary for comparative stylistics and, in fact, virtually all of their 'stylistic' terms referto basic syntactic onstituents.
Using their vocabulary of terms, Vinay and Darbelnetdefined rules, expressed in ordinary natural anguage, that encoded knowledge aboutFrench-English comparative stylistics.
The rules certainly fell short of the repertoireneeded by a professional translator, but no one has yet improved upon their codi-fication of comparative stylistics (Brian Fitch, personal communication).
Their bookis still used as a prescribed text in translation courses.
Vinay and Darbelnet did nottake an explicitly goal-directed approach, but their book does contain a great deal ofinformation about the correlation of stylistic goals with particular lexical, syntactic,and semantic hoices.
Unfortunately, however, their rules proved to be too language-dependent for the framework that is proposed in this paper.
But the success of agoal-directed codification, albeit an implicit one, supports the approach that we willtake below.Crystal and Davy (1969) hypothesized the creation of a formal stylistic grammar,built upon a vocabulary of stylistic terms and intended to represent he sentencestructures characteristic of a particular stylistic sublanguage.
However, the grammarthat they sketched contained virtually no terms other than purely syntactic ones andno correlations with stylistic goals; it was only a first step, although an ambitiousone, toward a codification of the stylistic rules that define a sublanguage.
What wehave found especially useful to adapt from their work is the overall methodology, theapproach to formalizing style, even the belief that style can be formalized.Kane's (1983) rhetoric and handbook of style represents the typical textbook thataims to teach the rules of classic good writing.
Kane, too, did not take an explicitlygoal-directed approach in his stylistic rules, but nevertheless gave numerous referencesto the stylistic goals associated with particular syntactic structures.
The systematic con-struction of a stylistic vocabulary seems not to have been an explicit goal, but he usedmany terms unique to stylistics.
However, his terminology was apparently augmentedwhenever the need arose to describe a new feature; there was no underlying struc-ture, no formal representation f rules.
The stylistic rules were expressed in ordinaryEnglish and achieved, as the author intended, good coverage of plain writing style.This body of rules was 'structured' to the extent hat there were hierarchies of stylisticsentence types, but, in general, Kane's rules appear to be just an enumeration of stylis-tic tenets, not a deliberately constructed organization.
Nevertheless, we have foundit useful to draw upon these rules as justification for the syntactic overage of ourgrammar.In computational stylistics, an application area of particular interest o us is ma-chine translation (MT).
In suggesting the applicability of computational stylistics to MT,Loffier-Laurian (1986) emphasized an important point: although corresponding groupstyles may exist across languages, the realization of the style can be different for eachlanguage.
Tsutsumi (1990) presented a methodology for bridging stylistic gaps (stylisticdifferences) between the syntax of the source and target languages in MT.
An impor-tant contribution of Tsutsumi's work is the recognition that computational stylisticsis useful for the translation of pairs of languages that are not in the same languagegroup.Hovy's (1988) PAULINE system was the first computational system that imple-mented goal-directed style.
PAULINE was able to generate text that conformed to vari-ous stylistic and pragmatic onstraints that it was given.
The system was goal-directed,able to correlate such stylistic goals as formality, simplicity, and respect with the lexical458Chrysanne DiMarco and Graeme Hirst Goal-Directed Style in Syntaxand syntactic haracteristics of the text produced.
Hovy's method was based on thedefinition of rhetorical goals of style, such as formality, force, and partiality, that controlbroader pragmatic goals.
For example, a low degree of formality combined with highdegrees of force and partiality gives a 'no-nonsense' ffect.To achieve a particular hetorical goal, PAULINE examined the options at variouspoints during the production of text and applied the appropriate strategies.
For ex-ample, to achieve formality, the generator would perform the following actions:Organization of topics: Make long complex sentences by subordinating them inrelative clauses or by conjoining two or more sentence topics.Organization of sentences: Make sentences seem weighty by including a numberof adverbial clauses, by placing these clauses toward the beginning of asentence, by building parallel clauses, by using the passive voice, by usingmore 'complex' tenses uch as the perfect enses, and by avoiding ellipsis.Choice of words and phrases: Select formal words and phrases.
Avoid doubtfulgrammar, popular idioms, slang, and contractions.Although structured in its correlation of the generator's actions with decision points,this approach to representing a goal-directed knowledge of style is essentially heuristic.Hovy's success in implementing a goal-based notion of style, even though lim-ited in scope and informal in the mode of knowledge representation, encouraged ourdevelopment of a computational pproach to goal-directed style.2.3 Summary?
From existing research in theoretical stylistics, we have seen that there isa basis for the codification of group-based, utilitarian, goal-directedstylistics.?
The need for a vocabulary of stylistic terms is an accepted idea.However, the nature and structure of such a vocabulary forcomputational use, which must describe more than basic syntax and beamenable to systematic construction, have not yet been addressed.
Theseissues will be subjects of the next section.?
Similarly, while large bodies of stylistic rules already exist, they have notbeen organized into the formal structure necessary to a computationalapproach.
Section 4 will develop a structured method for representingstylistic rules by constructing formal grammars.?
The feasibility of a goal-directed analysis of style is supported byprevious research, but an actual goal-based codification has notpreviously been attempted.
In the grammar that we will develop inSection 4, we will incorporate such a goal-directed knowledge ofstylistics.3.
A Vocabulary of Style3.1 Stylistic GoalsIf we hope to build AI-based systems to deal with matters of style, then we mustprovide a formal knowledge representation: we need a vocabulary of well-defined,expressive terms that will allow our intuitions about style to be stated precisely and459Computational Linguistics Volume 19, Number 3understood clearly.
We will construct a vocabulary from terms that are associated withutilitarian, group-based, goal-directed stylistics.
We will start by considering the kindsof stylistic goals to be dealt with in the lexicon.When a writer composes text, she has certain stylistic goals in mind; such goalsmight include clarity, or informality, or even the clouding of an unpalatable message.To achieve her various goals, she will choose specific words (outplacement or firing,for example), syntactic onstructions (heavily modified or sparse noun phrases), andsemantic organization (Thirty percent of the class failed or The majority of students passed).In applications uch as machine translation, we want to understand why a writerhas used language in a particular way, what specific effects she intended to convey,and which linguistic choices were made to achieve these goals.
There are a multitudeof goals that could be considered; indeed, the space of possibilities has never beenfully explored.
For this study, we have chosen six goals that Vinay and Darbelnet(1958) consider to be among the most commonly used, representing the opposite ndsof three dimensions.
The goals are listed as follows, with an intuitive description ofthe corresponding characteristics that a sentence of each type would display:?
Clarity: Simplicity, harmony, and no ambiguity.Obscurity: Complexity, incongruity, and difficulty of understanding.?
Concreteness: Specificity, with an emphasis on certain components.Abstraction: Generality, with no particular emphasis on any onesentence component.?
Staticness: Uniformity, predictability, continuity.Dynamism: Deviation from the norm, unexpectedness, action.3.2 From Theoretical Stylistics to Computational StylisticsWe will now develop a vocabulary of basic terms that will describe stylistically sig-nificant aspects of syntax.
Our development is guided by much in classical rhetoricaltheory; often, our definitions will be extensions of those of the classical theory.
We dothis in two stages: first, we outline abstract properties of style suggested by classicalrhetoric; second, we convert hese properties into definitions of abstract elements thatwill be used in a grammar of style.Our starting point is the notion of stylistic norm, which is defined as the mostcommonly used structures in a given genre.
This notion is intrinsic to the work of themajority of descriptive stylists uch as Crystal and Davy (1969) and Cluett (1976, 1990).From this, we derive the notions of stylistic concord and discord as the fundamentalprinciples of our formalization.
Concord simply means conformity with the norm, anddiscord, deviation from the norm.Each genre has its own particular norm; for example, the style characteristic ofscientific texts may seem disruptive if used in general newspaper writing.
This viewgoes beyond the tenet of prescriptive rhetoric that the stylistic norm merely representsstandard, 'good,' style, independent of the use of the text.
Rather, we agree withLanham (1974) that style should be viewed as the tailoring of a text to a specificaudience and a specific situation; 'good' style can in fact be quite inappropriate.The concept of norm will be useful as a means of anchoring the development ofour stylistic rules.
It is simply the usual, the typical, the stable and concordant.
Indeed,discord, deviation from the norm, will play an essential role in our formalization ofstyle, for it is our contention that style arises from the construction of patterns of460Chrysanne DiMarco and Graeme Hirst Goal-Directed Style in Syntaxconcord and discord, particular combinations of order and disorder that create anoverall harmonious arrangement (Crystal and Davy 1969; Cluett 1976, 1990).3.2.1 The Divisions of the Vocabulary.
As the first step in constructing a vocabularyof style for computational use, we will look at the descriptive terms that stylists havedeveloped over many centuries of use.One of the most important rhetorical influences on sentence style that has beenidentified is syntactic parallelism, or coordination: the balancing of syntactically similarforms to achieve a harmonious stylistic effect, an idea dating back to the rhetoricalschemes of balance (Corbett 1971, p. 463).But if parallelism or coordination plays an important role in style, so too doessubordination: variations in the hierarchical structure of a sentence that can producecorrespondingly different stylistic effects.
One part of a sentence can dominate an-other.
As with parallelism, the importance to style of syntactic hierarchy is also awell-established principle in classical rhetoric, evident in the schemes of parenthesis,apposition, and climax (Corbett 1971, pp.
466, 468, 476).
Thus, modulations in coordinateand subordinate structure are major factors in achieving stylistic expressiveness.A third major contributor to syntactic style is linear ordering: varying the orderof components within a sentence to produce quite marked stylistic differences.
Therhetorical terms of anastrophe and parenthesis (Corbett 1971, p. 466) attest o the stylisticimportance of the ordering of sentence components.Thus, we can see that three factors influencing syntactic style are:?
Balance: Parallelism of structure.?
Dominance: Structural hierarchy.?
Position: Linear ordering of structure.We will adapt hese factors from theoretical stylistics as the divisions of our vocabularyof style.
Now, we will classify commonly used stylistic terms into these three groupsin order to identify and abstract the general properties of style characteristic of eachgroup.3.2.2 Abstract Properties of Style.
In the balance group, we classify the terms ymmetricconstruction (Hendricks 1976), serial sentence (Kane 1983), parallel sentence (Kane 1983),balanced sentence (Kane 1983), and intersentence coordination (Crystal and Davy 1969).All of these terms suggest a stylistic imitation, the balancing of syntactically similarclauses.
We also find evidence of stylistic parallelism below the clause level in the useof terms such as paired adjectives (Kane 1983), balanced phrases (Crystal and Davy 1969),and intrasentence oordination (Hendricks 1976).
As well as identifying similar struc-tures, stylists have recognized characteristic asymmetric constructions (Hendricks 1976)or syntactic ounterpoint (Hendricks 1976).
These types of structures are most often in-terrupted or convoluted sentences (Kane 1983).
For inclusion in our vocabulary, we willchoose the most representative terms in the balance group: intersentence oordinationand intrasentence ounterpoint.There are a variety of terms that can be classified into the dominance group.
First,there are sentences that have one trivially dominant clause.
These are the simple sen-tences (Kane 1983) that have only one main, or central, clause with no subordinateclauses.
Next, there are many and varied types of sentences built up around a central,dominant clause.
The complex sentence (Kane 1983) has a central clause and at leastone dependent clause.
The loose sentence (Kane 1983) has a central clause followed by461Computational Linguistics Volume 19, Number 3a subordinate clause.
The centered sentence (Kane 1983) has a central clause flanked bysubordinate clauses.
The cumulative sentence (Kane 1983) has a central clause accom-panied by a series of appositive, modifying, or absolute constructions.
Finally, thereare more-complicated sentences with more than one dominant clause.
The compound-complex sentence (Kane 1983) can be much more elaborate than a simple compoundsentence, as it contains at least two independent clauses and at least one dependentclause.
For inclusion in our vocabulary, we abstract from these three types of hierarchi-cal terms to identify trivial single-clause dominance, complex single-clause dominance,and multiple-clause dominance.The position group appears to contain the largest number of terms, as any basicterm can be qualified to an arbitrarily fine degree by the exact intrasentence position towhich it refers.
We will use only three qualifiers, associated with initial, medial, and finalpositions (Quirk et al 1985).
At the sentence l vel, we can have any word or phrase ininitial, medial, or final position.
Within the sentence, there are almost infinite variationsof position terms.
A small sample includes postpositive adjectives, and pre-verbal, post-verbal, or post-clause adverbs (Crystal and Davy 1969), and complex premodification andpostmodification (Crystal and Davy 1969).
We will generalize from these many subtlevariations and define terms that have either a concordant or discordant effect, at aparticular position in a sentence, according to whether or not their usage is normal.From this grouping of terms into the three divisions of balance, dominance, andposition, we have abstracted general properties of style that we want to describe inour vocabulary.
The abstract elements of style that we will now define will classify theunstructured mass of stylistically significant sentence types into groups of sentenceswith similar stylistic properties.3.3 Abstract Elements of StyleWe will present the abstract elements in three groups, according to their properties ofbalance, dominance, and position, which we now define formally as follows:Balance: A balance term characterizes a tylistic effect created by the juxtapositionof similar or dissimilar sentence components.For example, parallelism in sentence structure is the juxtaposition of syn-tactically similar components.Dominance: A dominance t rm describes a stylistic effect created by the particularhierarchical structure of a sentence.In a simple sentence, for example, there is an effect of simplicity associatedwith the single and therefore, by default, dominant clause.Position: A position term describes a stylistic effect created by the particular place-ment of a syntactic omponent within a sentence.For example, in English, a postmodifying adjective, as in the house ablazG canbe more emphatic than the more usual premodifying type, as in the blazinghouse.Now we shall propose a set of stylistic terms, correlated with this classification,that will make explicit those abstract stylistic properties that are now only implicitin existing terminology.
These stylistic terms will be based on effects of concord anddiscord, which we formally define as follows:Concord: A stylistic onstruction that conforms to the norm for a given genre.462Chrysanne DiMarco and Graeme Hirst Goal-Directed Style in SyntaxDiscord: A stylistic construction that deviates from the norm.We will now use these notions to define abstract elements that are related, in turn, toeffects of balance, dominance, and position.3.3.1 Balance Elements.
The first group of abstract elements is related to effects ofbalance within a sentence.
Here, we will be looking at relationships that tend to eitherperturb or reinforce the balance of a sentence.
The first and simplest ype of balanceelement is a homopoise ("same weight"):Homopoise: A sentence with interclausal coordination of syntactically similarcomponents.In other words, there are one or more stylistic 'shapes' in a homopoisal sentence, eachcontributing the same type of effect to the concordant parallelism of the sentence.
Inthe example below, two very simple clauses, with identically shaped parse trees, areconjoined:13.
The style was formed and the principles were acquired.
9Sentences that are more complex can have their balance interrupted or perturbedby a heteropoisal ("different weight") component:Heteropoise: A sentence in which one or more parenthetical components are syn-tactically 'detached' and dissimilar from the other components at the samelevel in the parse tree.It is difficult to formally characterize this class of structures and the underlying notionof a component being 'detached.'
Quirk et al (1985) also rely on this word to definewhat they call disjuncts but make no attempt o define it:Disjuncts .. .
have a superior role as compared with the sentence l-ements; they are syntactically more detached and in some respects'superordinate,' in that they seem to have a scope that extends overthe sentence as a whole.
(Quirk et al 1985, p. 613) l?Similarly, Nunberg (1990), in defining the related idea of the delimiter comma, can dono better than to characterize the class "in a rough way":There is the class of elements delimited by commas, either at both ends(when the elements occur clause-internally) or at one end (roughly,when the elements are either clause-initial or -final) \[p. 36\] .
.
.
.
It isobviously not possible here to provide an analysis of the syntax andsemantics of each of these constructions, much less to try to charac-terize them in such a way as to say what they have in common.
Ina rough way, however, we observe that they all involve constituency9 Adapted from The Manchester Guardian Weekly, 14 February 1988, p. 15.10 An example of a disjunct is the interrupting prepositional phrase in all frankness in the sentence Your sonis not, in all frankness, ucceeding inhis present job (Quirk et al 1985, p. 612).463Computational Linguistics Volume 19, Number 3problems, so that they do not behave as constituents, for example,under such tests as verb-phrase llipsis.
What is more, all of themcan be characterized as supplying material that is communicativelysupererogatory to the bare propositional content of the lexical clausein which they appear... .
This is all very rough, but it does suggestthat the content of these comma-delimited lements plays a distinctiverole in the representation f the \[rhetorical\] argument structure of thetext.
\[pp.
38-39\]Despite the difficulty of formal characterization, we agree with Quirk et al andNunberg that there is an intuitively clear class of constructions here, and, like theseauthors, hope that it can be conveyed to the reader by sufficient use of examples.We divide the class of heteropoise sentences into three types, depending upon theposition of the parenthetical component: a heteropoise may be medial, initial, or final.Moreover, we will distinguish between two subtypes at each position: concordant anddiscordant.Medial heteropoise: A heteropoise in which the parenthetical component is inmedial position.Concordant medial heteropoise: A medial heteropoise in which theparenthetical component is cohesively linked to the rest of the sen-tence.
(This notion will be made precise when we have introducedthe primitive lements in Section 3.4.
)Discordant medial heteropoise: A medial heteropoise in which theparenthetical component is not cohesively linked to the rest of thesentence.In example 14 below, the relative clause which brought no protests interrupts the mainclause, yet, as a postmodifier, it is still a part of the subject noun phrase and so thesentence isa concordant medial heteropoise.
But now consider the medial adverbial phraseaccording to a company spokesman; as a sentence modifier, it is quite detached from therest of the sentence and so the sentence is simultaneously a discordant medial heteropoise:14.
The measure, which brought no protests, was decided, according to acompany spokesman, because of the dangers to which these employeesare exposed in travelling to particularly exposed subtropical countries, uInitial heteropoise" A heteropoise, concordant or discordant, in which the paren-thetical component is in initial position.Sentence 15 contains an initial parenthesis, an appositive noun phrase, that is cohe-sively linked to the rest of the sentence because it refers to the subject of the mainclause.
Thus, the sentence is a concordant initial heteropoise:15.
The heir to a fortune, her friend did not care about passingexaminations.
1211 Manchester Guardian Weekly, 21 February 1988, p. 14.12 Quirk et al (1985, p. 1314).464Chrysanne DiMarco and Graeme Hirst Goal-Directed Style in SyntaxFinal heteropoise: A heteropoise, concordant or discordant, in which the paren-thetical component is in final position.Sentence 16 contains a final parenthesis, an 'extraneous' phrase, that is distinct fromthe main clause, as it is not cohesively linked to the rest of the sentence.
Thus, thesentence is a discordant final heteropoise:16.
Stephen and Jennifer are not going to buy the house, according to aspokesman.We saw in 14 that a heteropoise can contain more than one parenthetical, and oneof them might be concordant while another is discordant.
Likewise, it can be the casethat one parenthetical is, say, medial, while another is initial or final.
The followingexample shows two successive medial parentheticals rather stridently interrupting themain text--the ffect is heightened by the use of dashes--as well as a final parentheticalin the same sentence:17.
The idea of combined French and British patrols by nuclearsubmarines--a proposal once made by the Social Democratleader David Owen-- let  alone the plan for "sharing the work"where the targets and missiles carried by these submarines areconcerned was not even raised, according to a French militaryspokesman.
133.3.2 Dominance Elements.
The second type of abstract element deals with stylis-tic dominance, which is concerned with the hierarchical structure of a sentence.
Acommon type of dominance lement is the monoschematic, a very simple sentence:Monoschematic: A sentence with a single main clause with simple phrasal sub-ordination and no accompanying subordinate or coordinate clauses.Here is an example of a canonical monoschematic sentence:18.
Posterity has not been kind to him.
14The most common dominance lement in the texts that we have studied is thecentroschematic:Centroschematic: A sentence with a central, dominant clause with one or moreof the following optional features: complex phrasal subordination, initialdependent clauses, final dependent clauses.Centroschematic sentences can be quite varied in structure, but their shared charac-teristic is a predominant component that serves as the organizational center for allother components.
Such structures are built with subordination and coordination.
In13 Manchester Guardian Weekly, 7 February 1988, p. 13.14 Adapted from The Manchester Guardian Weekly, 14 February 1988, p. 15.465Computational Linguistics Volume 19, Number 3the first example below, the main clause is supported by a complex, but subordinateand coordinate, relative clause structure:19.
Neither these devices nor the cramped viewing rooms which are toonarrow and whose ceilings are much too low for the big altarpiecesmanage to spoil the works.
15Two subordinate clauses, the first of them adverbial and the second of them relative,accompany but do not dominate the main clause in the following sentence:20.
Not all that long ago, the famous collector Charles de Bestegui,when unable to get hold of certain paintings, was quite prepared toadorn the walls of his Venetian palace with copies, which happilyrubbed shoulders with his numerous genuine canvases.
16Finally, the complex but imitative postmodification in the next example incorporatesa substantial amount of information without weakening the dominance of the mainclause:21.
Silvia, a commanding woman in her 50's, a shrew falsely mellowed byreligion, promptly organised prayer sessions on the lines of Tupperwaremeetings.
17Given that we have a progression in complexity from monoschematic to cen-troschematic sentences, a natural extension is to the polyschematic:Polysehematic: A sentence with more than one central dominant clause and atleast one dependent clause.Such sentences occur much less frequently than the monoschematic or centroschematicvarieties, at least in the corpus used in this research.
However, a sentence with obvi-ously disparate components occasionally occurs, as in the following example.
There aretwo dominant clauses (we could th ink .
.
,  and we should not forget .
.
.  )
and a dependentclause (if we consider the progress .
.
.
):22.
If we consider the progress already achieved, the opposition that had tobe overcome, for example, in order to open schools for girls, and the factthat Saudi Arabia is less than 60 years old, we could think that time willpermit resolving the contradictions between the most liberal aspirationsof one part of society and the ulemas' determination to keep the countryas it is, and we should not forget o mention the Islamic fundamentalistmovements which are threatening Saudi Arabia.
TM15 Manchester Guardian Weekly, 14 February 1988, p, 15.16 Manchester Guardian Weekly, 7 February 1988, p. 14.17 Adapted from The Manchester Guardian Weekly, 7 February 1988, p. 16.18 Adapted from The Manchester Guardian Weekly, 14 February 1988, p. 14.466Chrysanne DiMarco and Graeme Hirst Goal-Directed Style in Syntax3.3.3 Position Elements.
The third group of abstract elements that we will look at arethe position elements.
The most common types of position element describe concordantor discordant stylistic effects in particular positions.
Thus, we have initial concord, medialconcord, and final concord.
Similarly, we have a range of discord elements.
The definitionsof these elements are closely tied to the primitive-level descriptions of our vocabulary,so we will delay their precise characterizations until Section 3.5, after the primitive-level descriptions are introduced.
Here, it will be sufficient for the reader to knowonly that the concords describe constructions, at a particular position in the sentence,that conform to normal usage while the discords describe constructions that deviatefrom the norm.In addition to effects created by a single concord or discord in a particular po-sition within the sentence, we can observe other kinds of effects pertaining to therelationships between concords and discords:Resolution: A shift in stylistic effect that occurs at the end of a sentence and is amove from a relative discord to a stylistic concord.We can see an example of a resolution in 23 below.
There is an initial discord, createdby the unusual placement of the adverb entirely, which is not normally found in theinitial position and is not cohesively linked to the rest of the sentence (cf.
Section 3.4.3below).
However, there is a final concord, as the subsequent main clause contains nosuch incongruities:23.
Entirely in the spirit of protective support, could we suggest you pass onan appropriate comment o the personnel concernedJ 9And the complementary effect is dissolution:Dissolution: A shift in stylistic effect that occurs at the end of a sentence and isa move from a relative concord to a stylistic discord.We have already seen an example of a dissolution in one of the Biblical texts ofSection 1.1, repeated below as 24.
A strong initial concord, created by imitative clauses,is set against a final discord, produced by an uncommon syntactic inversion:24.
And the rain descended, and the floods came, and the winds blew, andbeat upon that house; and it fell: and great was the fall of it.
2?3.4 Primitive Elements of Style3.4.1 Two Kinds of Stylistic Analysis.
Now that a set of abstract stylistic elements hasbeen defined, we must next consider how to use them in practical stylistic analysis.So far, these elements are too general to apply to the interpretation of an arbitrarysentence.
We must relate these stylistic elements to more-basic syntactic elements, whosestylistic characteristics are more specific and concrete.
In our reading of the literature19 Quirk et al (1985, p. 652).20 Matthew 7:27, Revised Standard Version (1952).467Computational Linguistics Volume 19, Number 3of stylistics, we observed that two analyses of stylistic structure are possible: connectiveand hierarchic orderings:Connective ordering: The result of cohesive bonds drawing together componentsin a linear ordering.Hierarchic ordering: The result of bonds of subordination and superordinationdrawing together components in a nested ordering.These two complementary kinds of analysis are implicit in the work of most stylistsand rhetoricians, uch as Cluett (1976) and Bureau (1976) (Neil Randall, personal com-munication).We will now use these notions of connective and hierarchic orderings to guide thedefinition of more-primitive stylistic elements that provide a precise syntactic basis tothe vocabulary, yet alo allow a mapping to the abstract elements.3.4.2 The Role of Corpus Studies in the Classification of the Primitive Elementsof Style.
We believe that to establish stylistic classifications and construct a practicalstylistic grammar, one must undertake corpus studies in the style of Cluett (1976) andBiber (1988, 1989) to support the exact classifications of stylistic effects.
But we alsoagree with Crystal and Davy that:It is perhaps worth emphasising right away that the first step in anystylistic analysis must be an intuitive one.
The stylistician is on pre-cisely the same footing as anyone else here: he notices a linguisticfeature which he feels to be stylistically significant.
The difference be-tween his approach and that of the untrained observer is that he willhave a clearer idea of what is likely to be significant, and will knowwhat to do with his observations once they are made.
This last pointis the stylistician's main competence: he is able to interrelate his obser-vations within the framework of some theory, and thus piece togetherany general pattern of linguistic variation which may exist.
(Crystaland Davy 1969, p. 12)Thus, although we have built our grammar of style upon accepted theory, it is currentlya prototype for the formal representation f stylistic knowledge, not yet developed asa tool for practical stylistic analysis.
21 For, like Crystal and Davy, our initial objectiveis to provide a methodology, a vocabulary and apparatus, that will allow others tointegrate our approach with analytic procedures to construct useful formalizations ofstyle:All we can do is systematically point to certain significant facts in thelanguage being analysed, suggest some theoretical principles whichwill account for the occurrence of these facts, emphasise the need forfurther analysis to validate or refute these preliminary soundings, andillustrate a procedure which will allow people to do this.
(Crystal andDavy 1969, p. 13)21 See Section 6 for a discussion of work in progress.468Chrysanne DiMarco and Graeme Hirst Goal-Directed Style in SyntaxIn the manner of Crystal and Davy, we agree that statistical verification mustfollow such research, but we believe that, initially, we can use well-motivated intuitionsabout stylistic frequencies to classify our stylistic elements:Such a \[statistical\] method would be prerequisite for any serious re-search work, but it is too detailed for our present purposes.
Conse-quently we make use of the alternative method of expression, makingour statements of frequency in more informal terms, using such quan-tifiers as 'rarely', 'commonly', 'often', 'very often', and so on.
Thisrange of adverbials in English cuts up a continuum of frequency veryclearly, with very little overlap, and is readily intelligible.
It shouldnot be forgotten, however, that any statements of relative frequencyin these terms can be referred if necessary to the precise statisticalsituation which underlies them.
(Crystal and Davy 1969, p. 22)3.4.3 Primitive Stylistic Elements.
Primitive stylistic elements are individual con-stituents that have a particular stylistic effect.
But what should we use as the basisfor the definition of 'stylistic effect'?
We have said that the two analyses of sentencestructure, connective and hierarchic, can provide the appropriate guidance.
We willdefine the stylistic effect of an individual component in terms of its contribution toeach ordering:?
For the connective view, a component acquires its stylistic effect from itsdegree of cohesiveness, its bonding with other components in the sentence.?
For the hierarchic view, a component acquires its stylistic effect from itsdegree of subordination, its dependence on other components in thesentence.We introduce the terms conjunct, antijunct, subjunct, and superjunct (to be defined inthe following sections) and we use superscripts on all the terms to indicate the degreeof connectivity or subordination.
In the connective view, we classify syntactic om-ponents as either conjunct 4 (excessively connective), conjunct 3 (strongly connective),conjunct 2 (moderately connective), conjunct 1 (mildly connective), and conjunct ?
(neu-tral).
Similarly, we use the terms antijunct ?
through antijunct 4 to indicate increasinglydisconnective effects; conjunct ?
and antijunct ?
are the same.There is a complementary vocabulary of primitive elements for the hierarchic view.The stylistic effects of syntactic omponents are correlated with the degree of subordi-nation or superordination; the classifications are analogous to the connective: subjunct 4through subjunct ?
(decreasingly subordinate) and superjunct ?
through superjunct 4 (in-creasingly superordinate); subjunct ?
and superjunct ?
are the same.Connective primitive elements.
In assigning connective ffects to syntactic ompo-nents, we adapt Halliday and Hasan's (1976) work on cohesion.
Although Hallidayand Hasan focused on definitions of cohesion in whole texts, we can apply thesedefinitions to cohesion within the sentence, for, as they point out:Since cohesive relations are not concerned with structure, they maybe found just as well within a sentence as between sentences.
Theyattract less notice within a sentence, because of the cohesive strengthof grammatical structure; since the sentence hangs together already,469Computational Linguistics Volume 19, Number 3the cohesion is not needed in order to make it hang together.
But thecohesive relations are there all the same.
(Halliday and Hasan 1976,p.
8)Halliday and Hasan enumerate five types of cohesion: substitution, ellipsis, reference,conjunction, and lexical cohesion.
We will use all of these except lexical cohesion andwill add a new factor, interpolation, that works against cohesion.Halliday and Hasan define substitution as the "replacement" (p. 88) of one itemby another.
We suggest hat such intrasentence phenomena as apposition and extra-position can be considered as types of substitution.
For example, in 25, either of thetwo postmodifying noun phrases could substitute for the head noun Silvia:25.
Silvia, a commanding woman in her 50s, a shrew falsely mellowed byreligion, promptly organized prayer sessions on the lines of Tupperwaremeetings.
22And, in 26, the clausal subject for anyone to escape could substitute for the anticipatorypronoun it:26.
It was considered impossible for anyone to escape.
23Ellipsis is defined as the omission of an item.
Many forms of ellipsis are possiblewithin the sentence, including the omission of elements of clause structure.
In thefollowing sentence, the ellipsis is marked by .
.
.
.
.27.
I'll gladly pay for the hotel, if you will __  for the food.
24Items that have the cohesive property of reference are not interpreted semanticallyin their own right, but make reference to something else for their interpretation (Halli-day and Hasan 1976, p. 31).
In English, such items are personal pronouns, demonstra-tives, and comparatives.
These 'directive' elements presuppose the existence of someother element from which information is to be retrieved; whether or not the otherelement is within the same sentence, the referential item will be cohesive.Conjunctive lements are defined as:elements \[that\] are not cohesive in themselves but indirectly, by virtueof their specific meanings; they are not primarily devices for reachingout into the preceding (or following) text, but they express certainmeanings which presuppose the presence of other components in thediscourse.
(Halliday and Hasan 1976, p. 226)Halliday and Hasan cite the conjunction and, certain adverbs, and certain prepositionalexpressions as instances of conjunction.
Many of these elements can promote cohesionwithin the sentence.To the principles of cohesion described above, we will add interpolation, a discon-nective relation that works against cohesion.
Interpolated elements are certain instances22 Adapted from The Manchester Guardian Weekly, 7 February 1988.
Translated from Le Monde.23 Quirk et al 1985, p. 1392.24 Quirk et al 1985, p. 907.470Chrysanne DiMarco and Graeme Hirst Goal-Directed Style in Syntaxof parenthetical constructions, those that display none of the forms of cohesion listedearlierY In the examples below (repeated from Section 3.3.1), we see several differenttypes of interpolation:28.29.30.The measure, which brought no protests, was decided, according to acompany spokesman, because of the dangers to which these employeesare exposed in travelling to particularly exposed subtropical countries.
26The heir to a fortunG her friend did not care about passingexaminations.
27Stephen and Jennifer are not going to buy the house, according toa spokesman.The cohesive relations described above can be ranked from the most to the leastcohesive.
Halliday and Hasan (pp.
226-227) consider substitution, including ellipsis,to be the most strictly cohesive relation, followed by reference, and then conjunction.We adopt this ranking, and so we classify intrasentential substitution and ellipsisas strongly connective (conjunct3), reference as moderately connective (conjunct2), andconjunction as mildly connective (conjunct 1).
We classify interpolation as disconnective(antijunct2).
28As an illustration of our method of classification of connective primitive lements,we will use the following sentences, in which the underlined components exhibit dis-tinct stylistic effects.
In the first sentence, the postmodifying construction is a stronglyconnective, conjunct 3 reduced relative clause, as it is an instance of ellipsis for whichthe presupposed items are who is.
The postmodifying relative clause in 32 is a moder-ately connective, conjunct 2 referential element, as the relative pronoun 'points' to thepreceding noun phrase the man.
Lastly, the postposed adjectival in 33 is a disconnec-tive, antijunct instance of interpolation, as it is detached from the rest of the sentenceand has none of the cohesive properties.
(The property of ellipsis is not present, as apostposed adjective, unlike a reduced relative clause, does not have the same elementof presupposition f specific missing items.):31.
The man __ walking into the room is unfit for this task.32.
The man who is walking into the room is unfit for this task.33.
A man always timid is unfit for this task.
29Hierarchic primitive elements.
In assigning a hierarchic lassification to a syntacticcomponent, we adapt Halliday's (1985) work on subordination in functional grammarand Quirk et al's (1985) use of the term superordination.25 Another type of structure that seems to work against cohesion is a disruption in normal inearordering, as the syntactic inversion at the end of the now-familiar text, And the rains descended, and thefloods came, and the winds blew, and beat upon that house; and it fell: and great was the fall of it.
However, wehave not yet incorporated this feature into our formalization of style.26 Manchester Guardian Weekly, 21 February 1988, p. 14.27 Quirk et al (1985, p. 1314).28 We do not use here the full range of connectivity hat we defined above; however, some extensions ofthe theory by Green (1992a, 1992b) do.29 Quirk et al (1985, p. 1295).471Computational Linguistics Volume 19, Number 3Halliday distinguishes two types of subordination: embedding (or rank-shifting) andhypotaxis.
These phenomena will be used to classify the hierarchic primitive elementsin our stylistic grammar.
Embedding is described as:the 'rank shift' by which a clause or phrase comes to function withinthe structure of a group, like who came to dinner in the man who came todinner.
(Halliday 1985, p. 219)There are various types of embeddings, including prepositional phrases, as in Johnmight arrive as early as tomorrow, but Halliday focuses on those within the nominalgroup:\[The embedded prepositional phrase\] is the only instance of embed-ding other than in a nominal group.
All other embedding in Englishis a form of nominalization, where a group, phrase, or clause comesto function as part of, or in place of (i.e., as the whole of), a nominalgroup.
(Halliday 1985, p. 187)Examples of embedded subordination are finite and nonfinite clauses 3?
that functionas postmodifiers, asin the house that lack built, or as the head of a nominal group, as inFor Jack to build a house would be the best thing (Halliday 1985, p. 220).Halliday defines hypotaxis as:the binding of elements of unequal status.
The dominant element isfree, but the dependent element isnot.
\[p. 198\] In a hypotactic structurethe elements are ordered in dependence, and this ordering is largelyindependent of the sequence.
\[p. 199\]There are many types of hypotaxis, at the clause, phrase, and word levels.
Examplesof hypotactic subordination i clude a dependent clause following a dominant clause,preceding the dominant, enclosed in the dominant, or enclosing the dominant:34.
You never can tell till you try.
3135.
If wishes were horses, beggars would ride.
3236.
Picture, if you can, a winkle.
3337.
He might, he said, finish it himself.
34It should be emphasized that the two types of subordination are quite different:It is important to distinguish between embedding on the one hand and... hypotaxis on the other.
Whereas hypotaxis \[is a relation\] BETWEENclauses (or other ranking elements), embedding is not.
Embedding is30 If the clause is relative, then it must be defining (restrictive) to be an embedded clause; a non-definingrelative clause is an instance of hypotaxis (to be defined below).31 Halliday 1985, p. 200.32 Halliday 1985, p. 200.33 Halliday 1985, p. 200.34 Halliday 1985, p. 200.472Chrysanne DiMarco and Graeme Hirst Goal-Directed Style in Syntaxa mechanism whereby a clause or phrase comes to function as a con-stituent WITHIN the structure of a group, which itself is a constituentof a clause.
(Halliday 1985, p. 219)Consequently, the stylistic effects of embedding and hypotaxis will be subtly different.Because an embedded structure is a constituent of the dominant structure, we will clas-sify embeddings as strongly subordinate, subjunct 3.
On the other hand, in hypotaxis,one component is dependent on another, but "in no sense is it a constituent part ofit" (Halliday 1985, p. 219), so we will classify hypotactic structures as only mildlysubordinate, subjunct 1.To the factors of embedding and hypotaxis, we add another factor, superordination,that accounts for structures that are somehow 'superior '  to the main clause.
35 That suchphenomena exist is supported by Quirk et al's (1985) definition of disjunct, which werepeat here from Section 3.3.1:Disjuncts .
.
.
have a superior role as compared with the sentence l-ements; they are syntactically more detached and in some respects'superordinate,'  in that they seem to have a scope that extends overthe sentence as a whole.
(Quirk et al 1985, p. 613)Disjuncts can be divided into two main classes, style disjuncts and content disjuncts:Style disjuncts convey the speaker 's  comment on the style and formof what he is saying, defining in some way under what conditionshe is speaking as the 'authority' for the utterance.
Content disjuncts(also known as attitudinal disjuncts) make observations on the actualcontent of the utterance and its truth conditions.
(Quirk et al 1985,p.
615)Examples of these superordinate lements are underl ined in the following sen-tences (the first three contain style disjuncts, the fourth, a content disjunct):38.
Frankly, I am tired.
3639.
If I may say so without offence, your writing is immature.
3740.
There were twelve people present, to be precise.
3841.
Even more important, she has control over the finances of the party.
39In our grammar, we classify these types of superordinate elements as superjunct.As an illustration of our method of classification of hierarchic primitive elements,we will use the following sentences, which display distinct stylistic effects due to thedifferent primitive classifications of the underl ined components.
In the first sentencebelow, the postmodifying restrictive relative clause is a strongly subordinate, subjunct 3instance of embedding.
The medial adverbial clause in 43 is a mildly subordinate,35 We do not consider the case of a main clause being superordinate o a dependent clause (Quirk et al1985, pp.
988-990).
We are concerned only with structures that are superordinate o the matrix clause.36 Quirk et al 1985, p. 615.37 Quirk et al, p. 615.38 Quirk et al, p. 616.39 Quirk et al, p. 622.473Computational Linguistics Volume 19, Number 3subjunct 1 instance of hypotaxis, as it is a causal-conditional clause (Halliday 1985,p.
214).
Lastly, the initial adjective in 44 is a superordinate, superjunct instance of astyle disjunct.42.
The money which was our reward has been useful.43.
The money, as it was our reward_, should not be used for frivolouspurposes.44.
True, the money has been useful.3.5 Concords and DiscordsIn Section 3.3.3, we gave an informal description of the abstract elements of concordand discord.
As these elements are closely tied to the primitive-level descriptions ofour vocabulary, we delayed their precise characterizations until after the primitiveelements of style were introduced.
Now, we can define the nature of concords anddiscords for both the connective and hierarchic views.
In both views, the concordsrepresent constructions, ata particular position in the sentence, that conform to normalusage, while the discords describe constructions that deviate from the norm.In the connective view, the concords are associated with constructions that areconnective, for we assume that cohesion is the default usage, while the discords aredisconnective structures, as a lack of cohesion is less usual.
Thus, a concord, whichmay be initial, medial, or final, is produced by a conjunct construction; a discord, whichmay also appear in any of the three positions, is caused by an antijunct construction.For the hierarchic view, concords are associated with structures that display a'normal' degree of subordination or superordination, while discords are producedby excessive subordination or excessive superordination.
Excessive subordination andsuperordination are difficult to characterize, but, as a first attempt, we propose thatnesting of dependent structures to a depth greater than three will be considered is-cordant subordination and that 'detachment' of superordinate structures by 'intrusive'punctuation (e.g., long dashes) will be considered iscordant superordination.4.
A Stylistic Grammar4.1 A Methodology for Developing a Stylistic GrammarSo far, we have constructed a vocabulary of style.
We can now define a method forusing the vocabulary to systematically build up a syntactic stylistic grammar for boththe connective and hierarchic views of style.To construct the stylistic grammar, we will use a methodology whose steps are asfollows:?
the classification of primitive stylistic elements;?
the correlation of the stylistic effects of these elements with the abstractstylistic elements; and?
the correlation of patterns of these abstract elements with specificstylistic goals.The grammar to be constructed in this manner will be stratified with internalbranching, as illustrated in Figure 1.
As the figure shows, at the bottom level thereare three branches--lexical, syntactic, and semantic--each with its own vocabulary474Chrysanne DiMarco and Graeme Hirst Goal-Directed Style in SyntaxGrammar  of  styl ist ic goals:A correlation of stylistic goalswith patterns of abstract elements.Grammar  of  abstract  elements:A correlation of abstract elementswith patterns of primitive stylistic elements.Lexical  Syntact ic  Semant icStylistic Stylistic StylisticGrammar  Grammar  GrammarFigure 1A stylistic grammar.of primitive stylistic elements and rules for combining them.
At the central level,we use a single vocabulary of abstract elements, stylistic terms that are maximallyexpressive.
Rules relate these abstract elements to patterns of lexical, syntactic, andsemantic primitive elements.
This level is the unifying core of the grammar; as wewill note later, the same abstract elements can describe both English and French style,and both syntactic and semantic aspects of style.
Finally, at the top level, rules correlateindividual stylistic goals with patterns of abstract elements.
Together, these levels forma language-independent 4?
schema for a goal-directed grammar.4.2 Grammar of Primitive ElementsThe stylistic grammar that we have outlined in the previous ection shows how lexical,syntactic, and semantic aspects of style would be integrated within one grammar.
Somework has already been done on the development of the lexical and semantic branches(see Sections 6.1 and 6.2), but here we will focus on syntactic style.
We will now tracethe development of the syntactic omponent of the stylistic grammar, beginning withthe most detailed and most closely syntactic level, the grammar of primitive elements.As we proposed earlier, we will consider two analyses of sentence structure, connectiveand hierarchic, each with its own stylistic classifications.
In this base-level grammar of40 We expect that a particular stylistic grammar will be applicable toa family of stylistically similarlanguages.475Computational Linguistics Volume 19, Number 3primitive elements, the rules are based on syntactic and stylistic rules of Crystal andDavy (1969), Kane (1983), and Quirk et al (1985).In the full grammars given by DiMarco (1990) and subsequently b  Hoyt (1993),each syntactic ategory is given both a connective and a hierarchic primitive classifi-cation by corresponding rules.
Here, we will present only selected rules, mainly thoseassociated with the stylistic effects of various types of premodification a d postmodifi-cation in the nominal group.
We will begin with the elementary components and workup to full sentences.
In the presentation of the grammar rules, we will first give theconnective rules, then their hierarchic ounterparts.
Often, we will annotate rules withrelevant examples.
(Explanatory notes on the terminology are given in Appendix A.)Adjectivals.
Adjectivals and adverbials are the simplest classes of primitive lements.To demonstrate hat even the smallest syntactic omponents have individual stylisticeffects, we give selections from the rules for the adjectivals.Connective view.
Adjectivals can be classified within a range of connectivity.
Inthe moderately connective case, there are a number of alternatives, two of which areshown below.
The first alternative, the genitive form, is a referential element, as itpresupposes the existence of the noun to which it refers.
Whether or not this noun isin the same sentence, a referential personal pronoun is cohesive and so it is classifiedas a conjunct 2 element.
The second alternative, a demonstrative d terminer, is alsoclassified as moderately connective because it too is a referential element.Ruleconjunct 2 adjectivalpremodifying genitivehi__ss religious worksdemonstrative d terminerthis substantial selectionThe less-conjunct ase has only one alternative, an adjective.
An adjective isusuallyused as a premodifier of a noun, so that it presupposes the presence of the noun.However, it is not a directive, referential element, but rather a conjunctive one.
Thus,it is classified as conjunct 1.Ruleconjunct 1 adjectivaladjectivemedieval iconographic subjectHierarchic view.
Adjectivals are generally hypotactic rather than embedded ele-ments.
That is, they are linked to an element (the noun) of different status that couldstand as an independent whole, whereas the adjectival could not.
Therefore, we willclassify most adjectivals as subjunct 1, mildly subordinating.
However, nominal adjec-tives, which have been rank-shifted, are instances of embedding and so are subjunct 3,more strongly subordinating.476Chrysanne DiMarco and Graeme Hirst Goal-Directed Style in SyntaxRulesubjunct 1 adjectival ;premodifying genitivehis religious worksdemonstrative determinerthis substantial selectionadjectivemedieval iconographic subjectRulesubjunct 3 adjectivalnounfake cloth architectural backdropsPremodification.
Crystal and Davy's (1969) 'stylistic' grammar, although elementary,rightly recognized the stylistic importance of premodification a d postmodification fthe nominal group.
Our syntactic stylistic grammar is built upon the stylistic effectscreated by these types of modification.
We first describe selected rules of premodification.Connective view.
The rules for moderately connective, conjunct 2, and less connective,conjunct 1, premodification are self-explanatory.Ruleconjunct 2 premodificationconjunct 2 adjectivalRuleconjunct 1 premodificationconjunct 1 adjectivalThe following rule for non-connective, conjunct ?
premodification has three alterna-tives, an adverbial, a participle, and no premodification.
Premodifying adverbials andparticiples do not display any of the explicit forms of cohesion but neither do theywork against cohesion.
They are not connective but neither are they disconnective.Ruleconjunct ?
premodificationadverbialincreasingly arresting self-portraitsparticiplearresting self-portraitsno premodification477Computational Linguistics Volume 19, Number 3The following rule for disconnective, antijunct 2 premodification has only one alter-native, a reduced sentence.
A reduced sentence can be considered to be an instance ofinterpolation, so that it works against cohesion.Ruleantijunct 2 premodificationreduced sentenceI visited his pop-down-for-the-weekend cottage.We can now begin to introduce primitive stylistic categories that will be usedto build up the definitions of the corresponding abstract elements that we saw inearlier sections.
When premodification is conjunct, it is classified as centroschematicpremodification.
In turn, this type of premodification is concordant, for it is associatedwith cohesive effects, which we take to be normal usage.Rulecentroschematic premodification -~conjunct 3 premodificationconjunct 2 premodificationconjunct 1 premodificationconjunct ?
premodificationRuleconcordant premodificationconjunct 3 premodificationconjunct 2 premodificationconjunct 1 premodificationconjunct ?
prernodificationWhen premodification is antijunct, then it is discordant, for there is a degree ofdisconnectivity that works against cohesion; it is therefore not normal usage.
41Rulediscordant premodificationantijunct premodification41 For reasons of brevity, we will occasionally use a single term, such as antijunct, o stand for all degreesof an element.478Chrysanne DiMarco and Graeme Hirst Goal-Directed Style in SyntaxHierarchic view.
In the full grammar, we define detailed rules for the various subjunctand superjunct types of premodification.
Here, we will show only selected rules.The following rule for strongly subordinating, subjunct 3 premodification has fouralternatives.
The first is self-explanatory.
The other three, reduced sentences, adver-bials, and participles, are embedded, rank-shifted constructions, which are thereforeclassified as subjunct 3.Rulesubjunct 3 premodification - -~subjunct 3 adjectivalreduced sentenceadverbialparticipleThe following rule for less subordinating, subjunct I premodification is self-explanatory.Rulesubjunct I premodification - -~subjunct I adjectivalWe include the rule below to account for the case of no premodification, which isneither subordinating nor superordinating.Rulesubjunct ?
premodificationno premodificationCentroschematic premodification is produced by subjunct or 'neutral' (subjunct ?)
pre-modifying constructions.Rulecentroschematic premodificationsubjunct 3 premodificationsubjunct 2 prernodificationsubjunct I prernodificationsubjunct ?
prernodificationIn the hierarchic view, discord is produced by excessive subordination.
We willclassify this type of discordant premodification as subjunct 4 premodification.
Now wecan define the following rules for concordant and discordant premodification:479Computational LinguisticsRuleconcordant premodificationsubjunct 3 premodificationsubjunct 2 premodificationsubjunct I premodificationsubjunct ?
premodificationRulediscordant premodificationsubjunct 4 premodificationVolume 19, Number 3Postmodification.
Continuing to build upon the stylistic features that Crystal andDavy (1969) judged important, we define complementary connective and hierarchicrules for postmodification i the full grammar and give selected rules here.Connective view.
The rule for conjunct 3 postmodification has three alternatives, a nom-inal group, a nonfinite clause, and a verbless clause.
42 As these constructions are in-stances of either substitution or ellipsis, they are strongly connective.Ruleconjunct 3 postmodificationnominal groupPaul Jones, the distinguished art critic, died in his sleep last night.non-finite clauseYou will look in vain for any concrete measures emerging from this summit.verbless clauseNorman Jones, then a student, wrote several best-sellers.As a relative clause is a referential structure, it is classified as a moderately con-nective, conjunct 2 shape.Ruleconjunct 2 postmodificationrelative clauseI do not trust a laboratory that will not insist on a qualified pharmacistbeing present at the point of distribution.A postmodifying prepositional phrase is classified as mildly connective, conjunct 1,42 We follow Quirk et al (1985, p. 1314) in using this apparent contradiction i  terms.480Chrysanne DiMarco and Graeme Hirst Goal-Directed Style in Syntaxbecause it is a conjunctive lement hat presupposes the presence of the noun it mod-ifies.Ruleconjunct I postmodification )prepositional phrasehis long black cloak with its purple beading and ornamentations of gold andprecious tonesA postposed adjectival is an instance of interpolation, and therefore antijunct, asit is a detached construction that lacks any of the forms of cohesion.Ruleantijunct 2 postmodificationadjectivalA man always timid is unfit for this task.If postmodification is conjunct, then it is centroschematic postmodification.Rulecentroschematic postmodificationconjunct 3 vostrnodificationconjunct 2 postmodificationconjunct I postmodificationconjunct ?
postrnodificationIf postmodification is either conjunct and parenthetical or antijunct and parenthet-ical, then it is heteropoisal.
43,44Ruleheteropoisal postrnodification )conjunct postrnodification with parenthesisantijunct postrnodification with parenthesisNow we can define the various types of concordant and discordant postmodification,according to whether the postmodification is cohesive (and therefore concordant) orlacking cohesion (discordant).43 We do not define all forms of parenthesis, but these can be easily enumerated by using, for example,the classifications given by Quirk et al (1985).44 The meaning of with in our grammar isexplained in the notes on terminology in Appendix A.481Computational Linguistics Volume 19, Number 3Ruleconcordant postmodification - -~conjunct 3 postmodificationconjunct 2 postmodificationconjunct 1 postmodificationconjunct ?
postmodificationRulediscordant postmodificationantijunct postmodificationHierarchic view.
In the rule for subjunct 3 postmodification, the alternatives are arestrictive relative clause, a restrictive nonfinite clause, a nominal group, and a prepo-sitional phrase.
All of these are instances of embedding, as they function as a part ofthe nominal group, so they are strongly subordinating elements.Rulesubjunct 3 postmodificationrestrictive relative clauserestrictive non-finite clausenominal groupprepositional phraseIn the rule for subjunct I postmodification, the alternatives are an adjectival, a nonre-strictive relative clause, and a nonrestrictive nonfinite clause.
All of these are instancesof hypotaxis, as none of them is a constituent of the nominal group, so they are clas-sified as mildly subordinating elements.Rulesubjunct ~ postmodification ---*adjectivalnon-restrictive relative clausenon-restrictive non-finite clause482Chrysanne DiMarco and Graeme Hirst Goal-Directed Style in SyntaxMonoschematic postmodification is produced by simple subordinate forms, excludingclauses.
45Rulemonoschematic postmodificationsubjunct 3 postmodification a d (noun phrase or prepositional phrase)Centroschematic postmodification is produced by all subordinate forms, includingclauses.Rulecentroschematic postmodification --~subjunct 3 postmodificationsubjunct 1 postmodificationsubjunct ?
postmodificationIn the hierarchic view, discord is produced by excessive subordination.
We willclassify this type of discordant postmodification assubjunct 4 postmodification.
Now wecan define the concordant and discordant varieties of hierarchic postmodification asfollows:Ruleconcordant postmodificationsubjunct 3 postmodificationsubjunct I postmodificationsubjunct ?
postmodificationRulediscordant postmodificationsubjunct 4 postmodificationNoun phrases.
We will now combine premodification and postmodification to definea larger constituent, he noun phrase.
46Rulenoun phrase(premodification)* noun (postmodification)*45 The meanings of and and or in our grammar are explained in Appendix A.46 In the full grammar, a noun phrase can also be a pronoun or a nominal clause.483Computational Linguistics Volume 19, Number 3The following stylistic variations of noun phrases are defined in the obvious way,according to the corresponding types of their premodification a d postmodification:monoschematic noun phrasecentroschematic noun phraseheteropoisal noun phraseconcordant noun phrasediscordant noun phraseA question that arises at this point is the projection problem; that is, the problem ofhow the stylistic effect of a sentence, or even a sentence component, is modified by thestylistic characteristics of the components nested within it.
Our solution is to assumethat if a component is concordant then all its components, toall levels of nesting, mustbe concordant, but if a component is discordant then at least one of its components,at some level of nesting, must have been discordant.
Thus, if we have a noun phraseconsisting of concordant premodification, a noun, and discordant postmodification,the whole noun phrase will be classified as discordant.We realize this is a very simplified solution, but we believe it will be acceptable inour work, for our sample corpus, although drawn from high-quality magazine writing,has few examples of nesting to more than one or two levels.Verb phrases.
The basic verb phrase is defined as follows:Ruleverb phrase(adverbial) verb (adverbial) (complement)*The following stylistic variations of verb phrases are defined in the obvious way,according to the types of their components:monoschematic verb phrasecentroschematic verb phraseheteropoisal verb phraseconcordant verb phrasediscordant verb phraseSentences.
We also define rules in the full grammar for complements, prepositionalphrases, and dependent clauses.
With these rules, we have all the components ofa sentence and can define sentence structures of increasing complexity.
The first ofthese structures i the major, a single main clause; the next is the complete, which addsdependent clauses to the main clause.
In some rules, we introduce specializationsaccording to the position of a certain type of stylistic element.
An initial discordantcomplete, for example, is a sentence that has a discordant component in the initialposition.484Chrysanne DiMarco and Graeme Hirst Goal-Directed Style in SyntaxThe basic major is defined as follows:Rulemajor --~(conjunction) (adjective)* (adverbial)* (prepositional phrase)* (nominal group)*noun phrase verb phraseWe define the following stylistic specializations of major sentences, according tothe types of their components:monoschematic majorcentroschematic majorheteropoisal majorinitial heteropoisal majormedial heteropoisal majorfinal heteropoisal majorconcordant majordiscordant majorNow we allow initial or final clauses to be added to the basic major sentence togive a complete s ntence:Rulecomplete(clause)* major (clause)*We define stylistic specializations of complete sentences in a manner analogous tothose for major sentences, o that our grammar includes the following varieties:monoschematic completecentroschematic completeheteropoisal completeinitial heteropoisal completemedial heteropoisal completefinal heteropoisal completeconcordant completediscordant completeinitial concordant completemedial concordant completefinal concordant complete485Computational Linguistics Volume 19, Number 3initial discordant completemedial discordant completefinal discordant complete4.3 Grammar of Abstract ElementsHaving completed the construction of the bottom level of the stylistic grammar, theclassification of primitive stylistic elements, we can now define the central evel, thegrammar of abstract elements.
This will correlate the stylistic effects of the primitiveelements with the abstract elements that were defined in Section 3.3.
At this level, theconnective and hierarchic views become integrated.A monoschematic sentence is a single main clause with optional, simple forms ofsubordination.Rulemonoschematicmonoschematic completeA centroschematic sentence is built up around a central main clause and can havecomplex subordination and dependent clauses.Rulecentroschematicconcordant completeA polyschematic sentence is built up around at least two central main clauses andhas at least one dependent clause.Rulepolyschematicconcordant complete (concordant complete) +A homopoisal sentence is a coordination of syntactically similar structures.
Here,we simplify to allow coordination of only very basic sentences.Rulehomopoisemonoschematic complete (monoschematic complete) +A heteropoisal sentence has at least one parenthetical component.Ruleheteropoiseinitial heteropoisal completemedial heteropoisal completefinal heteropoisal complete486Chrysanne DiMarco and Graeme Hirst Goal-Directed Style in SyntaxThe various types of concord and discord are defined according to the presence ofa concordant or discordant component in initial, medial, or final position.Ruleinitial concordinitial concordant completeRulemedial concordmedial concordant completeRulefinal concordfinal concordant completeRuleinitial discord --~initial discordant completeRulemedial discord --~medial discordant completeRulefinal discord -~final discordant completeAs well as observing localized effects of concord and discord, we can recognizemore-global shifts from concord to discord, or discord to concord.
That is, a specificpart of the sentence seems incongruous, discordant, but this discord is interpretedwithin the context of the rest of the sentence, so that it may either be 'resolved' by areturn to a usual form, or left unresolved.
We have formalized these two situationsin the abstract elements of resolution and dissolution.
A resolution is a shift in stylisticeffect that occurs at the end of a sentence and is a move from a relative discord to aconcord.
A dissolution is a shift in stylistic effect that occurs at the end of a sentenceand is a move from a relative concord to a discord.Ruleresolutioninitial discord and final concord487Computational Linguistics Volume 19, Number 3Ruledissolutioninitial concord and final discord4.4 Grammar of Stylistic GoalsHaving completed the central level in the stylistic grammar, the grammar of abstractelements, we can now define the rules at the top level that correlate patterns of theabstract elements with the writer's specific goals.Stylistic goals, such as clarity, are elusive qualities that up to now have beendefined by stylists by means of examples and informal rules.
However, with the vo-cabulary and formal grammar that we have defined, we now have a way of seeing andabstracting what these examples have in common.
We can abstract from a plethoraof low-level syntactic rules that stylists traditionally have used, and can now defineformal rules for specific stylistic goals.Note that stylistic goals can be organized along orthogonal dimensions.
For ex-ample, a writer might try to be clear, or obscure, or make no effort either way.
Clarityand obscurity are thus opposite nds of a stylistic dimension.
Likewise, the goals ofconcreteness and abstraction form a dimension, and so do staticness and dynamism.
Be-low, we look at one end of each of these dimensions; for details of their duals, seeDiMarco (1990) and Hoyt (1993).Clarity.
Clarity is a very pervasive stylistic goal.
Almost all the advice in textbooksof style and rhetoric is aimed at teaching the writer how to achieve clarity.
Clarity,in other words, is thought o be the norm that a writer should strive for.
To be clearis to be plain, precise, and predictable.
In keeping with stylistic theory, therefore, weinterpret the goal of clarity as adherence tothe stylistic norm and incorporate accepteddefinitions of norm, that is, cohesive and concordant s ructures, in our grammar rulefor clarity.Thus, we can use our stylistic grammar to give precise definitions to the kinds ofsentences that Kane (1983), for example, associates with clarity:?
Simple sentences, which consist of one independent clause: these are ourmonoschematic sentences.?
Centered sentences, which consist of dependent constructions, followedby a main clause, followed by additional dependent clauses.
We expandthe notion of 'centered sentence' to include any sentence in which thereis a dominant, concordant core: these are our centroschematic sentences.?
Parallel sentences, which reduce ambiguity by stressing the samegrammatical form: these are our homopoisal sentences.Hence, we define clarity as follows:Ruleclaritymonoschematiccentroschematichomopoise488Chrysanne DiMarco and Graeme Hirst Goal-Directed Style in SyntaxConcreteness.
Kane (1983) associates concreteness with sentences that suggest an effectof immediacy, in which the writer has arranged elements to reflect the natural orderof events or ideas, so that syntax mirrors events.
In the terms of our grammar, con-creteness i  associated with sentences that emphasize a particular component, whichmay be highlighted either because it is discordant or because it is parenthetical, as in aheteropoise.Ruleconcreteness .
>initial discordmedial discordfinal discorddissolutionheteropoiseStaticness.
We associate staticness with sentences in which there is little opportunityfor stylistic variation, that is, sentences that verge on being 'fixed forms.'
These arethe monoschematic sentences, which are standard and simple structures, or the moreelaborate but strictly balanced structures, the homopoisal sentences.Rulestaticnessmonoschematichomopoise5.
STYLISTIQUE: A Syntactic Stylistic ParserSo far, we have developed a vocabulary and methodology for constructing a stylisticgrammar and we have shown how these tools have been applied to the constructionof an English syntactic stylistic grammar.
In DiMarco (1990), we applied the same vo-cabulary and methodology to develop a French syntactic stylistic grammar.
However,these grammars provide only a theoretical foundation for a computational theory ofstylistics.
Now we describe the implementation of the stylistic grammars in a com-putational system.
In this section, we will describe the organization of STYLISTIQUE, asyntactic stylistic parser that interprets the stylistic grammar.
We will present a shortexample to illustrate STYLISTIQUE's method of analysis.5.1 How STYLISTIQUE worksThe English and French syntactic stylistic grammars are implemented in separateparsers that form the STYLISTIQUE system, a definite clause grammar that consists of489Computational Linguistics Volume 19, Number 3det(conjunct2_determiner,subjunctl_determiner,this,singular).det(conjunct2_determiner,subjunctl_determiner,my,singular).adj(conjunct1_adjective,subjunctl_adjective,large).Figure 2Sample lexical entries.over 9,000 lines of QUINTUS PROLOG code.
Each stylistic parser consists of the followingthree major modules:?
Lexicon: In addition to conventional information, the lexical entries areaugmented by annotations indicating the connective and hierarchicprimitive stylistic classifications associated with each word.
Figure 2shows several sample lexical entries.?
Syntactic analysis: The parser performs a conventional syntactic analysis,building a parse tree that identifies the grammatical structure of asentence.
47?
Stylistic analysis: The stylistic analysis proceeds in tandem with thesyntactic parse.
The primitive-element a alysis assigns connective andhierarchic lassifications to each sentence component as it is added to theparse tree.
The abstract-element a alysis builds higher-level patterns fromthese connective and hierarchic primitive elements.
The stylistic-goalanalysis correlates these patterns of abstract elements with the author'spossible stylistic goals.
It chooses one goal from each of the followingthree dimensions:Clarity/neutral ity/obscurity;Concreteness/neutral ity/abstraction;Staticness / neutral i ty/dynamism.The translation from the grammar ules that were shown in Section 4 to the im-plementation was straightforward.
In most cases, there was an easy way of mappingbetween the theoretical rules and the PROLOG rules.
For example, heteropoisal postmodifi-cation is described in the grammar as postmodification that is parenthetical nd eitherconjunct or antijunct, such as a nominal group or a nonfinite clause.
The grammarrules and corresponding PROLOG rule for one alternative in the definition of postmod-ification that is both heteropoisal nd concordant is shown in Figure 3.
48Although STYLISTIQUE can usually run unaided, it does require punctuation in theinput sentences to assist in disambiguation during parsing.
The underlying stylisticgrammar is highly complex, and so, lacking the aid of semantics, the stylistic parsercan produce a number of syntactically grammatical, but not necessarily stylisticallycorrect, parses for a given sentence.
The standard PROLOG cut might have constrainedbacktracking and reduced the number of correct parses, but it seemed too crude andunpredictable to be easily applied to so complex and interdependent a system of rules47 The English parser is based on a conventional parser written by Kern Luther and Rick MacLean at theUniversity of Toronto, with supplementary rules suggested by Crystal and Davy (1969) and Quirket al (1985).
The French parser is also based on Luther and MacLean's code, with supplementary rulesadapted from Dubois and Dubois-Charlier (1970) and Galichet (1970).48 The prefix "c" in the PROLOG rule indicates that the structure isconcordant.490Chrysanne DiMarco and Graeme Hirst Goal-Directed Style in Syntaxheteropoisal postmodificationconjunct 3 postmodification with parenthesisconjunct 3 postmodification with parenthesisnominal groupbuild_styl_postmod(StyleTree,styl(c_postmodification,hp_postmodification,StyleTree)) :-Concordant and heteropoisal postmodificationsmember(c_nominal_group,StyleTree).Figure 3Sample grammar and PROLOG rules.as STYLISTIQUE.
As a simpler solution, we introduced explicit markers of punctuationthat provide a form of partial disambiguation, as they do what the system should havedone unaided but couldn't, because of the limitations mentioned above.
STYLISTIQUErequires this prior disambiguation mostly for reasons of efficiency.
For example, mostparsers are unable to handle the conjunction and by any means other than tryingall possible parses (Snarr 1984).
The problem is analogous for or and for the comma(which can be considered a word).
In our parser, the situation is complicated by thesame conjunctions and the same punctuation markers playing different roles accordingto their level in the sentence structure.
As a consequence, different conjunctions andpunctuation markers are used at the sentence, clause, complement, and noun phraselevel.5.2 A Sample Stylistic ParseA corpus of 75 sentences (52 English, 23 French) was used to test the parser.
Thesesentences were chosen to demonstrate a substantial degree of stylistic variation.
Thefollowing short example illustrates the kind of analysis that STYLISTIQUE produces forthe sentence:45.
True, posterity has been kind.In subsequent sections, we will give an interpretation f the following parse tree forthis sentence.
49Stylistic goals of this sentence:\[clarity,concreteness,neutral\]Abstract stylistic elements (Connective view):\[\[initial_and_medial_concord,initial_concord\],\[centroschematic,monoschematic\],\[initial_hetsropoise,c_initial_heteropoise\]\]49 For brevity, we have omitted the hierarchical primitive-element parse.491Computational Linguistics Volume 19, Number 3Abstract stylistic elements (Hierarchic view):\[\[\],\[centroschematic\],\[initial_heteropoise,c_initial_heteropoise\]\].
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.Connective stylistic parse:c_sentencec_completec_initial_heteropoisal_completec_maj orc_heteropoisal_majorc_initial_heteropoisal_majoradjectival_phraseadjectival_phraseconjunctl_adjectivetruec_nounphrasec_noun_phrasec_nominal_groupc_nominal_groupc_premodificationc_premodificationc_premodificationnounposterityc_postmodificationc_postmodificationc_verbphrasec_verb_phrasexcopulacopulabeenadjectival_phraseconjunctl_adjectivekind5.2.1 Primitive-Element Analysis.
The sentence is concordant, for it consists of a con-cordant main clause, the major, with no subordinate clauses.
It begins with a styledisjunct, true, which is an elliptic adjectival and therefore considered to have a con-nective, concordant effect, even if used in the initial parenthetical position.
After theinitial disjunct, the sentence continues with the bare noun posterity, which, lacking bothpremodification and postmodification 5?is a minimal, and therefore concordant, nounphrase.
The sentence nds with the basic verb phrase has been kind, consisting of onlythe copula 51 been, and the concordant, conjunct 1 adjective kind; this is an inherentlyconcordant verb phrase.The sentence is concordant from the hierarchic view as well, for it has the formof a concordant initial heteropoisal complete sentence.
This indicates that the sentencebegins with a parenthetical construction, which in this case is the disjunct, true, asuperordinate adjectival.
The bare noun posterity, lacking both premodification andpostmodification, is a monoschematic noun phrase.
The verb phrase has been kind isbasic and therefore monoschematic.50 STYLISTIQUE must  assign a primitive classification to the postmodification so that this informationcan be passed up to the higher levels of the noun phrase.
As a consequence, the absence ofpostmodification must  be marked as (trivially) centroschematic postmodification, in the connectiveview, and (trivially) monoschematic postmodification, in the hierarchic view.51 The stylistic effects of auxiliary verbs are not taken into account, and so these verb forms are notrecorded in the stylistic parse.Chrysanne DiMarco and Graeme Hirst Goal-Directed Style in Syntax5.2.2 Abstract-Element Analysis.
In the connective view, the significant position el-ements are initial and medial concords.
The significant dominance lements are cen-troschematic and monoschematic.
That is, this sentence has one dominant shape, whichis, in fact, the whole sentence: it is monoschematic but also trivially centroschematic.STYLISTIQUE produces the most detailed analysis it can and does not prune extraneousinformation.
The single important balance element is an initial heteropoise.In the hierarchic view, STYLISTIQUE finds no significant position elements, but rec-ognizes one dominance and one balance element: the sentence is centroschematic andan initial heteropoise.
It is the initial disjunct, true, that introduces a superordinateeffect; this feature makes the sentence slightly too complex to be monoschematic.5.2.3 Stylistic-Goal Analysis.
First, we consider the analysis of the sentence on theclarity/obscurity dimension.
The presence of the concords in the connective view,together with the connective and hierarchic entroschematic structures, gives the sen-tence an effect of clarity.
In a less obvious manner, the presence of an initial disjunctaffects stylistic goals on the other dimensions.
Because a superordinate parentheticalcomponent is present, the sentence is a heteropoise and therefore considered to be con-crete.
On the staticness/dynamism di ension, the sentence has no definite leaning ineither direction.To summarize, this is a simple clear sentence with the slight incongruity of aninitial parenthesis to relieve its blandness.5.3 Limitations of the ImplementationSTYLISTIQUE'S limitations arise from the following characteristics of the system:?
The implementation f the grammar is incomplete.?
The grammar is too coarse-grained.In the first case, the incomplete implementation f the grammar, STYLISTIQUE cansometimes produce analyses that are inaccurate, though not incorrect, because, dueto time constraints, only about 90% of the full English and French syntactic stylisticgrammars was implemented.In the second case, the coarse grain of the stylistic grammar eflects theoreticallimitations.
The effect of coarse-grainedness was observed in the parses of some of thesentences in the sample corpus:Some sentences were parsed as simultaneously having both an initialconcord and an initial discord.
For example, both the following sentenceswere analyzed in this inconsistent manner:46.
To tell everybody is the best thing.47.
Telling lies is wrong.Some position elements were incorrectly identified: for example, a finaldiscord was recorded as an initial discord.Some sentences with obviously different degrees of cohesivenessreceived the same analysis at the abstract-element level.These anomalous results are not due to programming errors, but to the excessive ab-493Computational Linguistics Volume 19, Number 3stractness of the abstract elements and the resulting coarse grain of the grammar.
Itwas a deliberate choice to define elements that were quite abstract.
A major limitationof previous work in stylistics was the use of terms that were so specific and so numer-ous that it was not possible to identify general stylistic features that were common tosentences that were stylistically similar, but not obviously syntactically similar.
How-ever, our stylistic terms have occasionally erred on the side of being too abstract.
Forexample, an initial discord in a STYLISTIQUE analysis may correctly identify the presenceof a discord in the sentence but, because the scope of the element can be so broad,STYLISTIQUE sometimes cannot distinguish between a true initial discord, which occursat the start of a sentence, and a noninitial discord that seems to be 'initial' because itaffects the whole sentence.The excessive abstractness of the stylistic elements was further demonstrated bythe rules in Section 4.4, where we used the same patterns of elements to define bothclarity and staticness.
That there may be different ypes of monoschematic sentences,some merely clear, others static as well, has been overlooked in a stylistic analysis thatrelies on maximally expressive descriptions.
Our grammar currently does not allowfor such subtleties; although it fulfills our objective of a formalization of style thatcaptures many generalities, it is not yet sufficiently expressive to distinguish all thesubtleties we would wish.6.
Summary and ConclusionIn this final section, we will review the contributions of the research described in thispaper and conclude with a discussion of some of the new directions that the work istaking.6.1 Contributions of the ResearchThe problem of style presented advantages as a focus for new research.
The codifica-tion of stylistic knowledge had been a virtually unexplored problem even within thegeneral research area of computational linguistics.
With very few exceptions, previouswork had been unambitious (for example, counting word frequencies, or advocatingbasic rules of composition).Our aim was to create a formal representation f goal-directed, nonliterary stylis-tics and, moreover, to do so in a manner applicable to different languages.
The solutionwe proposed was the codification of stylistic knowledge in the form of a stylistic gram-mar.
The construction of a stylistic grammar constitutes a theoretical advance overprevious work in stylistics, for researchers had not attempted to produce a formaltreatment of style, but had relied simply on unstructured normative or descriptive'rules.'
The work we have done toward a grammar of style has brought ogether ideasfrom stylistic theory and knowledge representation and applied them to a hithertounformalized body of knowledge.As a result of building English and French stylistic grammars, we were able togive more-formal definitions of stylistic goals.
Previously, our understanding had beeneither purely subjective or based on established but unformalized usage.
Now we havea grammar that correlates tylistic goals with specific patterns of abstract properties oftext.
Our contribution to more-formal definitions of stylistic goals was demonstratedfor both syntactic and semantic style, as Ryan (1989, 1992) adapted our vocabularyand methodology to construct a semantic stylistic grammar that correlated the focusstructure of paragraphs with the abstract elements, and the abstract elements withspecific stylistic goals.
In so doing, he augmented the definitions of stylistic goals.The English and French syntactic stylistic grammars were implemented in STYLIS-494Chrysanne DiMarco and Graeme Hirst Goal-Directed Style in SyntaxTIQUE, a stylistic parser that produced etailed goal-directed stylistic analyses of sen-tences typical of sophisticated magazine writing.6.2 Applications of the Research6.2.1 Style in Machine Translation.
We have developed separate English and Frenchstylistic grammars and parsers.
DiMarco and Hirst (1990) describes the applicationof our ideas to machine translation.
Given the current French and English stylisticgrammars, the next step in building a system that could preserve style in translationwas to define a mapping between these grammars.
Mah (1991, 1992) adapted andextended our work to add a practical, computational treatment of French-Englishcomparative stylistics to the theory.
This work will eventually make possible machinetranslation systems that would be able to preserve or modify style in translation.Makuta-Giluk (1991; Makuta-Giluk and DiMarco 1993) developed a computationaltheory of rhetoric that builds upon our theory to deal with the codification of higher-level pragmatic effects of language, such as formality, persuasion, and sincerity.
Herwork is also applicable to the preservation of stylistic effects in translation.6.2.2 Natural Language Generation with Stylistic Constraints.
The ability to dealwith stylistic and pragmatic aspects of language is important not only in naturallanguage understanding, but in generation as well.
Our stylistic grammar provides aformal representation f stylistic knowledge that was previously lacking in generationsystems that attempted to deal with pragmatic issues.
BenHassine (1992) adaptedour knowledge representation for stylistics in order to incorporate stylistic constraintsinto the Penman language generation system (Penman 1988).
Green (1992a, 1992b)extended and refined our theory of style by adapting work from functional grammar.Hoyt (1993) and Green have implemented the new theory in an integrated stylisticanalyzer and generator, espectively.
DiMarco, Hirst, and Stede (1993) are looking atlexical choice in natural language generation, including considerations of lexical style.6.2.3 Second-Language Teaching.
What has been learned from developing STYLIS-TIQUE has also been applied to machine-aided language instruction.
Existing language-teaching systems focus almost exclusively on the basics of composition.
An instruc-tional version of STYLISTIQUE could systematically develop a student's understandingof the more advanced aspects of language composition.
Payette (1990; Payette andHirst 1992) developed an instructional system that, applying some of our ideas, ana-lyzes input sentences for basic normative style and clarity, and offers feedback to thestudent.6.3 ConclusionStylistic and pragmatic aspects, though necessary in complete understanding of lan-guage, have been neglected in computational linguistics research.
These problems hadbeen too vague and ill-defined to be dealt with by computational systems.
However,in this work, we have developed a novel, formal representation f stylistic knowledgethat makes the problem of stylistic analysis more amenable to computational solution.It is hoped that this research will lead to a system sophisticated enough to dealwith a range of stylistic problems.
Long-term applications include the development of astylistic post-editor for use in a machine translation system.
In addition, the continuingenhancements of the stylistic analyzer should contribute to a better understanding ofthe role style plays in language generation and teaching.
The ongoing developmentof a formal framework for the representation f knowledge about stylistics shouldprovide a partial computer model of how people produce style in language.495Computational Linguistics Volume 19, Number 3AcknowledgmentsWe hereby express our gratitude to EduardHovy, who helped to shape the evolution ofthis research, Brian Fitch, who provided theinspiration and direction to bridge thechasm between translation theory andcomputational practice, and Henry Schogt,who helped us maintain the linguisticvalidity of the research.We also thank Allan Gleason, IanLancashire, Louis Milic, Donald Ross,Claude Tatilon, and anonymous referees forwillingly taking the time to read andcomment on an earlier draft.
Discussionswith Steve Green, Pat Hoyt, Mark Ryan,and Neil Randall strongly influenced thedevelopment of the work.Kern Luther and Rick MacLean helpfullyallowed us to use their parser as a startingpoint for the STYLISTIQUE program.
Kemalso translated one of our examples.
MikeGodfrey generously helped with documentformatting.We acknowledge the financial support ofthe Natural Sciences and EngineeringResearch Council of Canada and theInformation Technology Research Centre.ReferencesBenHassine, Nadia (1992).
A formal approachto controlling style in generation.
Master'sthesis, Department of Computer Science,University of Waterloo, Waterloo, Ontario,Canada.Biber, Douglas (1988).
Variation across Speechand Writing.
Cambridge University Press.Biber, Douglas (1989).
"A typology ofEnglish texts."
Linguistics, 27, 3-43.Bureau, Conrad (1976).
Linguistiquefonctionnelle etstylistique objective.
PressesUniversitaires de France.The Chicago Manual of Style.
(1952).
Universityof Chicago Press.Cluett, Robert (1976).
Prose Style and CriticalReading.
Teachers College Press, ColumbiaUniversity.Cluett, Robert (1990).
Canadian literary prose:A preliminary stylistic atlas.
ECW Press.Corbett, Edward P. J.
(1971).
ClassicalRhetoric for the Modern Student.
OxfordUniversity Press.Crystal, David, and Davy, Derek (1969).Investigating English Style.
LongmanGroup Ltd.DiMarco, Chrysanne (1990).
Computationalstylistics for natural anguage translation.Doctoral dissertation, Department ofComputer Science, University of Toronto,Toronto, Ontario, Canada.
Published astechnical report CSRI-239.DiMarco, Chrysanne, and Hirst, Graeme(1990).
"Accounting for style in machinetranslation."
In Proceedings, ThirdInternational Conference on Theoretical ndMethodological Issues in Machine Translationof Natural Languages.
Austin, Texas, June1990, 65-73.DiMarco, Chrysanne; Green, Stephen J.;Hirst, Graeme; Mah, Keith; Makuta-Giluk,Marzena; and Ryan, Mark (1992).
"Fourpapers on computational stylistics.
"Research report CS-92-35, Faculty ofMathematics, University of Waterloo,June 1992.DiMarco, Chrysanne; Hirst, Graeme; andStede, Manfred (1993).
"The semantic andstylistic differentiation of synonyms andnear-synonyms."
AAAI Spring Symposiumon Building Lexicons for Machine Translation,Stanford, CA, March 1993, 114-121.Dubois, Jean (1969).
Grammaire structurale dufran?ais: La phrase t les transformations.Librairie Larousse.Dubois, Jean, and Dubois-Charlier,Fran~oise (1970).
Elements de linguistiquefran~aise: syntaxe.
Librairie Larousse.Fowler, H. W. (1968).
A Dictionary of ModernEnglish Usage.
Second edition.
OxfordUniversity Press.Galichet, Georges (1970).
Grammairestructurale du franqais moderne, l~ditionsHMH.Green, Stephen (1992a).
"A basis for aformalization of linguistic style."
InProceedings, 30th Annual Meeting of theAssociation for Computational Linguistics.Newark, Delaware, June 1992, 312-314.Green, Stephen (1992b).
A functional theory ofstyle for natural anguage generation.Master's thesis, Department of ComputerScience, University of Waterloo, Waterloo,Ontario, Canada.
Published as researchreport CS-92-48, Faculty of Mathematics,University of Waterloo.Grevisse, Maurice (1986).
Le bon usage.Duculot.Hatliday, M. A. K. (1985).
An Introduction toFunctional Grammar.
Edward Arnold.HaUiday, M. A. K., and Hasan, Ruqaiya(1976).
Cohesion in English.
LongmanGroup Ltd.Hendricks, William O.
(1976).
Grammars ofStyle and Styles of Grammar.
North-Holland.Heritage, John (1984).
Garfinkel andEthnomethodology.
Polity Press.Hovy, Eduard (1988).
Generating NaturalLanguage under Pragmatic Constraints.Lawrence Erlbaum Associates.496Chrysanne DiMarco and Graeme Hirst Goal-Directed Style in SyntaxHoyt, Pat (1993).
A functional-based stylisticanalyzer.
Master's thesis, Department ofComputer Science, University ofWaterloo, October 1993.
Published asresearch report, Faculty of Mathematics,University of Waterloo.Jameson, Anthony (1987).
"How to appearto be conforming to the 'maxims' even ifyou prefer to violate them."
In NaturalLanguage Generation, edited by GerardKempen.
Martinus Nijhoff.Jensen, Karen; Heidorn, George;Richardson, Stephen; and Haas, Norman(1986).
"PLNLP, PEG, and CRITIQUE:Three contributions tocomputing in thehumanities."
Computers and the HumanitiesConference Guide, Toronto, Ontario, April1986, 183-193.Kane, Thomas S. (1983).
The Oxford Guide toWriting.
Oxford University Press.Lanham, Richard (1974).
Style: AnAnti-Textbook.
Yale University Press.LoffieroLaurian, Anne Marie (1986).
"Stylistics and computing: Machinetranslation as a tool for a new approachto stylistics."
Computers and Translation, 1,215-223.Mah, Keith (1991).
Comparative stylistics in anintegrated machine translation system.Master's thesis, Department of ComputerScience, University of Waterloo, Waterloo,Ontario, Canada.
Published as researchreport CS-91-67, Faculty of Mathematics,University of Waterloo.Mah, Keith (1992).
"A computationalformalism for French-Englishcomparative stylistics."
In DiMarco et al(1992), 8-13.Makuta-Giluk, Marzena (1991).
Acomputational rhetoric for syntactic aspects oftext.
Master's thesis, Department ofComputer Science, University ofWaterloo, Waterloo, Ontario, Canada.Published as research report, CS-91-56,Faculty of Mathematics, University ofWaterloo.Makuta-Giluk, Marzena and DiMarco,Chrysanne (1993).
"A computationalformalism for syntactic aspects ofrhetoric."
Proceedings, The First Conferenceof the Pacific Association for ComputationalLinguistics, Vancouver, Canada, April1993, 63-72.Milic, Louis T. (1982).
"The annals ofcomputing: Stylistics."
Computers and theHumanities, 16(1), September 1982, 19-24.Nunberg, Geoffrey (1990).
The Linguistics ofPunctuation.
CSLI Lecture Notes 18.Center for the Study of Language andInformation, Stanford University,Stanford, CA.Payette, Julie (1990).
Intelligentcomputer-assisted instruction in syntacticstyle.
Master's thesis, Department ofElectrical Engineering, University ofToronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.Published as technical report CSRI-247.Payette, Julie, and Hirst, Graeme (1992).
"An intelligent computer-assistant forstylistic instruction."
Computers and theHumanities, 26, 87-102.Penman documentation.
(1988).
ThePenman Natural Language GenerationGroup, Information Sciences Institute,University of Southern California.Quirk, Randolph; Greenbaum, Sidney;Leech, Geoffrey; and Svartvik, Jan (1985).A Comprehensive Grammar of the EnglishLanguage.
Longman Group Ltd.Raskin, Robin (1986).
"The quest for style.
"IEEE Transactions on ProfessionalCommunication, PC-29(3), September 1986,10-18.Ryan, Mark B. P. (1989).
The computationalcodification of the semantic aspects of style.Master's thesis, Department of ComputerScience, University of Toronto, Toronto,Ontario, Canada.
Published as technicalreport CSRI-231.Ryan, Mark B. P. (1992).
"Focus shifts asindicators of style."
In DiMarco et al(1992), 1-7.Scott, Donia R., and de Souza, ClarisseSieckenius (1990).
"Getting the messageacross in RST-based text generation."
InCurrent Research in Natural LanguageGeneration, edited by Robert Dale, ChrisMellish, and Michael Zock.
AcademicPress.Snarr, Victoria L. (1984).
Theory and parsing ofthe coordinate conjunction "and."
Master'sthesis, Department of Computer Science,University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario,Canada.
Published as technical reportCSRI-171.Strunk, William Jr., and White, E. B.
(1979).The Elements of Style.
Third edition.Macmillan.Tsutsumi, Taijiro (1990).
"Wide-rangerestructuring of intermediaterepresentations i  machine translation.
"Computational Linguistics, 16(2), June 1990,71-78.Vinay, J.-P., and Darbelnet, J.
(1958).Stylistique comparde du fran~ais et del'anglais.
Didier.497Computational Linguistics Volume 19, Number 3Appendix A: Notes on TerminologyAt all levels of the grammar, the left-hand side of each rule identifies what is beingdefined, and the right-hand side lists one or more alternative realizations, one per line.Sometimes, a particular alternative will be illustrated by an accompanying example.For instance, the following rule describes the conjunct 2 type of adjectival:Ruleconjunct 2 adjectivalpremodifying genitivehi___ss religious worksdemonstrative d terminerthis substantial selectionIn this rule, the first alternative realization of a conjunct 2 adjectival is a premodifyinggenitive, such as the possessive his in his religious works.
The second alternative is ademonstrative determiner, such as this in this substantial selection.In the grammar, we will use various shorthand notations to simplify the presen-tation of the rules.
However, these abbreviated forms can be expanded into standardcontext-free grammar ules.
The shorthand notations are as follows; they are illustratedby particular examples, but are intended for general use:1. adjectival ~ intensifier adjectiveThe juxtaposition of terms on the right-hand side of a rule indicates a concatenationof instances of these terms.
For example, the rule above allows the intensifier very tobe followed by the adjective happy to form an adjectival, very happy.2.
adjectival ~ (intensifier) adjectiveParentheses indicate that the form is optional.
In this example, an adjectival could beeither an intensifier followed by an adjective or an adjective alone.3.
adjectival > (intensifier) + adjectiveThe Kleene cross indicates one or more occurrences of the form within parentheses.4.
adject ival  ~ (intensifier)* adjectiveThe Kleene star indicates zero or more occurrences of the form within parentheses.5.
postmodification with parenthesisWhere a rule has several alternatives, this shorthand notation using with abbreviatesa long sequence of alternatives (here, the many types of parenthesis).6. concordant heteropoisal postmodification ->concordant postmodification a d heteropoisal postmodification498Chrysanne DiMarco and Graeme Hirst Goal-Directed Style in SyntaxAnd indicates that all conditions on the right-hand side of a rule must simultaneouslybe satisfied by a single constituent.. concordant heteropoisal postmodification >nominal group or  prepositional phraseOr indicates that any one of the conditions on the right-hand side of a rule must besatisfied.499
