Indexical Expressions in theScope of Attitude VerbsAndrew R. Haas*The University at AlbanyA sentential theory of attitudes holds that propositions (the things that agents believe and know)are sentences of a representation language.
Given such a theory, it is natural to suggest hat theproposition expressed by an utterance of natural language is also a sentence of a representationlanguage.
This leads to a straightforward account of the semantics of attitude verbs.
However, thiskind of theory encounters problems in dealing with indexicals: expressions such as "L" "here,"and "now."
It is hard to explain how an indexical in the scope of an attitude verb can be opaque.This paper suggests that while the propositions that agents believe and know are sentences, thepropositions expressed by utterances are not sentences: they are singular propositions, of the typeused in Kaplan's theory of direct reference.
Drawing on recent work in situation semantics, thispaper shows how such a theory can describe the semantics of attitude verbs and account for theopacity of indexicals in the scope of these verbs.1.
IntroductionA sentential theory of attitudes holds that propositions (the things that agents believeand know) are sentences of a representation language.
The idea has an obvious ap-peal to AI workers, who rely heavily on representation languages.
Moore and Hendrix(1982) gave the classic statement of the case for a sentential theory of attitudes.
Kono-lige (1986), Haas (1986), and Perlis (1988) are among the authors who have appliedsentential theories to AI problems.A central problem for any theory of attitudes is the opacity of NPs in the scope ofattitude verbs.
Suppose we take a sentence containing an occurrence of the noun phraseNP1 and we replace that occurrence with another noun phrase NP2 that refers to thesame individual.
In many cases, the substitution will preserve the truth value of thesentence.
If "Superman" and "Clark Kent" refer to the same man, then "Superman wasborn on Krypton" and "Clark Kent was born on Krypton" have the same truth value.However, if NP1 and NP2 occur in the scope of an attitude verb, the two sentencesmight have different ruth values.
If "Superman" and "Clark Kent" refer to the sameman, and Lois Lane knows this man, the sentence "Lois thinks that Superman wasborn on Krypton" might be true even though "Lois thinks that Clark Kent was bornon Krypton" is false.
Then the occurrence of "Superman" in the first sentence is calledan opaque occurrence.Current versions of the sentential theory can explain many examples of opacity,but they have trouble when the opaque NP is an indexical.
'T'  and "now" are typicalindexicals.
When 'T'  occurs in an English utterance, it refers to the speaker of thatutterance.
When "now" occurs in an English utterance, it refers to the time when the* Department ofComputer Science, The University at Albany, 1400 Washington Avenue, Albany, NY12222?
1994 Association for Computational LinguisticsComputational Linguistics Volume 19, Number 4speaker produces the utterance.
In general, indexicals are words and phrases whosereference is fixed by a property of the utterance they occur in.
Demonstratives are aclass of phrases akin to indexicals, whose reference often depends on gestures thataccompany an utterance.
If I point at a book and say "Give me that book," the phrase"that book" refers to the book I pointed at.
Indexicals and demonstratives occur con-stantly in human speech, and they present crucial problems for any theory of propo-sitional attitudes.
In particular, it is essential to explain how an indexical in the scopeof an attitude verb can be opaque.If we adopt a sentential theory of attitudes, it is natural to suggest that the propo-sition expressed by an utterance is also a sentence of a representation language.
Thisleads to a straightforward account of the semantics of attitude verbs.
In Section 2 Iwill describe this approach and show why it fails to explain the opacity of indexicalsin the scope of attitude verbs.
In Section 3 1 will describe a nonsentential semantics forattitude verbs due to Crimmins and Perry (1989).
This theory can explain the opacityof indexicals.
In Section 4 1 will describe a new version of the sentential semantics forattitude verbs, which incorporates some of Crimmins and Perry's ideas.
This theorydenies that the proposition expressed by an utterance is a sentence in a representationlanguage.
It follows (given a sentential theory of attitudes) that an utterance expressesa proposition that no one can believe or know.
This sounds paradoxical, but I willargue that the new theory explains the opacity of indexicals while maintaining theadvantages of a sentential theory of attitudes.2.
Sentential Semantics for Attitude Verbs--Version One2.1 Using Quotation to Represent AttitudesComputational linguists often translate sentences of natural anguage into sentencesof a representation language.
This practice suggests a theory: that the propositionexpressed by an utterance is a sentence of a representation language.
This leads to astraightforward analysis of the semantics of attitude verbs.
We introduce the quotationmark '.
If Q is a wff or term of our language, then 'Q is a constant that denotesthe expression Q.
If a sentence P expresses the proposition Q, then an utterance of"Mary believes that P" expresses the proposition bel(mary~ 'Q).
The symbol "bel" isan ordinary predicate letter, not a special modal operator.
The first argument of "bel"denotes an agent, and the second argument denotes a sentence.
The argument of thequotation mark may itself contain quotation marks: we might represent "John thinksMary thinks the world is flat" as1 think(john, 'think(mary 'flat(world))).This analysis of attitude verbs can certainly account for some examples of opacity.Under this analysis, the sentence "Lois thinks Superman was born on Krypton" mightexpress the proposition2 think(lois, 'born(superman, krypton))while "Lois thinks Clark Kent was born on Krypton" might express3 think(lois, 'born(clark_kent,krypton)).The terms 'born(superman,krypton) and 'born(clark_kent, krypton) denote two differ-ent sentences, o it is quite possible that Lois has one sentence in her knowledge baseand not the other.It is straightforward to introduce this kind of quotation into a first-order language.Suppose we are given a first-order language L0.
We define the first-order languages638Andrew R. Haas Indexical Expressions in the Scope of Attitude VerbsL1, L2,... by induction as follows: the symbols of Li+l are all symbols of Li, togetherwith a new constant 'Q for each term or wff Q in Li.
Let L be the union of L0, L1, L2, ?
?
..Then L is a first-order language, and if Q is a term or wff of L, 'Q is a constant of L. LetM be a structure for L, and suppose that for each term or wff Q in L, the denotationof the constant 'Q in M is Q.
Then we say that M is a quotation structure for M.These definitions do not take us outside of ordinary first-order logic--we have simplydefined an interesting subset of the class of all first-order structures.Given a system of quotation, we can introduce a predicate called "bel" with threearguments: an agent, a sentence, and a time (I omit the time argument in this paper).If this predicate represents belief, we must introduce axioms that allow us to makethe desired inferences about beliefs.
Perception can create beliefs; inference createsnew beliefs from old ones; an agent uses beliefs to choose actions; and so on.
Variouswriters have developed theories of this kind, including the present author (Haas 1986).This paper is about one problem, opacity, and my arguments do not depend on thedetails of the theory of belief and other attitudes.
Therefore I will not develop thetheory here.One issue in the theory of attitudes is so notorious that I must mention it: theparadoxes of self-reference.
Quotation by itself creates no paradoxes, but if we in-troduce a predicate that represents truth or knowledge, it is easy to write plausible-looking axioms that are inconsistent.
The literature on this topic is large; see Mon-tague (1974), Kripke (1975), and Barwise and Etchemendy (1987).
It was once thoughtthat self-reference paradoxes are particularly troublesome for sentential theories, butdes Rivi6res and Levesque (1986) have corrected this error.
Perlis (1988) has shownhow we can take a language with quotation and consistently introduce a predicatewith some (not all) of the properties we expect of a truth predicate.
These issues areimportant, but they are not closely related to the problem of indexicals and opacity,so I will not consider them further here.
See Haas (1991) for more references anddiscussion.2.2 Indexicals as DescriptionsThe reference of an indexical depends on the utterance it occurs in.
Therefore if we in-tend to study indexicals, we can no longer speak of a sentence xpressing a proposition.An utterance xpresses a proposition, and different utterances of the same sentencecan express different propositions.
We must now reformulate the analysis of attitudeverbs suggested above.
Suppose P is a sentence, and consider the sentence "Marybelieves that P." If a speaker utters "Mary believes that P," he or she also utters P. Ifthe utterance of P expresses a proposition Q, the utterance of "Mary believes that P"expresses the proposition bel(mary, 'Q).If we translate English sentences into a representation language, we must translateindexicals into expressions of the representation language.
One way to do this is toassign a constant o denote each utterance.
Suppose the words of a certain utteranceare "I am now in London," and the constant hat denotes the utterance is U729.
Thenthe proposition the utterance xpresses might be4 (3x~ y. speaker(x~ U729) A time(y, U729) A in(x~ london, y)).This sentence says that the speaker of U729 is in London at the time when U729 oc-curs.
The wff speaker(x,U729) is a description of the speaker of U729, and the wfftime(y, U729) is a description of the time when U729 occurs.
This resembles Reichen-bach's analysis of indexicals (Reichenbach 1947).If indexicals translate into descriptions, it is possible to construct an opaque read-ing for an indexical in the scope of an attitude verb.
As an example, suppose Clark639Computational Linguistics Volume 19, Number 4Kent thinks that Lois Lane has discovered his secret identity, but he is mistaken.
Kentreports his belief to J immy Olsen by pointing at a picture of Superman in costumeand saying5 Lois believes I am that man.This utterance is false.
On the other hand, suppose Kent later says6 Lois believes I am me.This utterance is true.
The NP "that man" in the first utterance and the NP "me" inthe second utterance refer to the same individual, but one utterance is false and theother is true.
Therefore the NPs are opaque.If u is an utterance, let demonstrate(x, u) mean that x is the object that the speakerof u demonstrates to the addressee while uttering u.
To get opaque readings for the NPs"that man" and "me" in these utterances, we can assign the following representations.Let the constant U891 denote the first utterance, and let the representation of thisutterance be7 bel(lois, '(3x, y. speaker(x~ U891) A demonstrate(y, U891) A x = y)).Let the constant U144 denote the second utterance, and let the representation f thisutterance be8 bel(lois, '(3x, y. speaker(x, U144) A speaker(y, U144) A x = y)).These two representations describe two quite different sentences.
It is quite possiblethat Lois believes one sentence and not the other, so it is quite possible that (7) is falseand (8) is true.
So we have opaque readings for the NPs "that man" and "me.
"We get the opaque readings for (5) and (6) by putting the descriptions that rep-resent he NPs in the scope of the quotation mark on the second argument of "bel.
"By placing a description in the scope of the quotation mark, we are claiming that thisdescription occurs in a sentence that Lois believes.
For example, (7) entails that Loisbelieves the sentence9 (3x, y. speaker(x, U891) A demonstrate(y, U891) A x = y))which means that Lois knows (or can easily infer) that the speaker of U891 demon-strated some object to his or her hearer while uttering U891.
So if (7) represents theintended meaning of Kent's utterance (5), Kent was implying that Lois knew thathe demonstrated some object while producing this utterance.
This is clearly wrong.Kent's statement might easily be true even if Lois was not present when Kent utteredU891, and has no idea that the utterance ven occurred, let alne that Kent demon-strated anything as he spoke.
So (7) cannot be a correct representation f the intendedmeaning of Kent's utterance.There is another possible representation f Kent's utterance, one that avoids thefalse implication of (7).
Let subst(R, \[vl~..., vk\], \[Ul~..., uk\]) be the wff formed by si-multaneously substituting the terms Ul , .
.
.
,uk for free occurrences of the variablesVl , .
.
.
,  Vk in R. For example, we have subst('p(x,y), \['x\], \['c\]) = 'p(c,y).
Using this no-tation, we can form a new representation for "Lois believes I am that man ' - -onethat places the description "demonstrate(x, U891)" outside the scope of the quotationmark.
The new representation says that there exists a term tl of the representationlanguage that denotes the demonstratum of U891, and another term t2 which denotesthe speaker of U891, and Lois believes the sentence tl --- t2.
Following Kaplan (1975),640Andrew R. Haas Indexical Expressions in the Scope of Attitude Verbswe want to indicate that tl and t2 are not just any terms--they must have some signif-icance.
We write name(a~ t, x) to mean that t is a term of our representation language,the denotation of t is x, and t contains information that is significant o the agent a.For the moment let us not inquire what this significance amounts to-- the questiondoes not effect the present argument.Using the substitution operator and the predicate "name," we can build the fol-lowing representation for Kent's utterance (5):10(3x, y, tl, t2.
speaker(x, U891) A demonstrate(y, U891)A name(lois, tl, x) A name(lois, t2, y)A bel(lois,subst('(x = y), \['x, 'y\], \[tl, t2\])))And for (6):11(3x, y, tl, t2.
speaker(x, U144) A speaker(y, U144)A name(lois~ tl, x) A name(lois~ t2, y)A bel(lois,subst('(x = y), \['x, 'y\], \[h, t2\])))To see that (10) is a plausible representation of utterance (5), suppose that k and sare terms that denote Clark Kent (and therefore denote Superman), and both termscontain information that is significant o Lois.
k occurs in the following beliefs of Lois(among others):12 personal_name(k, "Clark Kent")13 profession(k, reporter)while s occurs in these beliefs:14 personal~name(s, "Superman")15 profession(s, uperhero).Then name(lois, 'k, k) and name(lois, 's, k) are true.
Suppose also (contrary to ourstory) that Lois believes the sentence k = s. This is precisely the kind of situation thatKent has in mind when he says to himself "Lois has discovered my secret identity,"and it is this belief that prompts him to produce utterance (5).
Let s be an assignmentsuch that s(h) is the constant k and s(t2) is the constant s. Then the value of the termsubst('(x = y), \['x, 'y\], \[tl, t2\]) in s is the sentence k = s. Therefore (10) would be true ifLois believed the sentence k = s. In (10) and (11), the translations of the indexicals areoutside the scope of the quotation marks.
Therefore (10) and (11) do not imply thatLois has any knowledge of the utterances (5) and (6).
This kind of representation forattitude reports comes from Kaplan (1975).
Haas (1991) presented a formal grammarthat builds such representations, using a different mechanism for quotation.Unfortunately, the representations (10) and (11) do not account for the opacity ofthe NPs.
If "that man" in U891 and "me" in U144 refer to the same individual, then thedemonstratum of U891 and the speaker of U144 are the same man.
Therefore the wffsdemonstrate(y, U891) and speaker(y, U144) have the same denotation: a function thatmaps a substitution s to True if s(y) is the speaker of U891 (= the demonstratum ofU144).
The wffs speaker(x, U891) and speaker(x, U144) also have the same denotation.It follows that (10) and (11) must have the same truth value.
According to our story,(10) is true--as the reader can see by considering an assignment s such that s(x) =Kent = Superman, s(y) = Kent = Superman, and s(tl) = s(t2) = the constant k.Therefore (10) cannot express the intended meaning of Kent's utterance (5)--becausethe proposition Kent was trying to express is false.641Computational Linguistics Volume 19, Number 4Our attempt o translate indexicals into a representation language has ended ina dilemma.
If we represent an indexical as a description, that description must spec-ify the utterance that the indexical occurs in--because the reference of the indexicaldepends on that utterance.
We might represent "I am that man" as "the speaker ofU891 is the man demonstrated by the speaker of U891."
Suppose the indexical occursin the scope of an attitude verb, and it is opaque--as in "Lois thinks I am that man.
"In order to account for the opacity, we must put the description that represents theindexical within the scope of a quotation mark.
This entails that the description ispart of Lois's belief--which means that Lois knows about the utterance U891.
This isclearly wrong.
If "Lois thinks I am that man" is true, it doesn't follow that Lois thinksthat the speaker of U891 is the same as the individual demonstrated by the speakerof U891.
It is quite possible that Lois knows nothing about the utterance U891.We can get rid of this implication by moving the description up, out of the scopeof the quotation mark- -but  then we lose our explanation of opacity.
Either way, weget it wrong.
It seems that translating indexicals into descriptions will not help us toexplain the opacity of indexicals in the scope of attitude verbs.3.
Direct Reference and Singular Propositions3.1 Direct Reference and Semantic InterpretationWe have considered a theory claiming that indexicals are represented by descriptions.Let us now consider a very different approach: Kaplan's theory of direct reference(Kaplan 1989).
Suppose an utterance contains an indexical expression referring to anentity x.
According to Kaplan, this utterance xpresses a proposition that contains xitself--not a concept of x, or a description of x in a representation language.
Kaplancalled such a proposition a singular proposition.
He writes:Don't think of propositions as sets of possible worlds, but rather asstructured entities looking something like the sentences which expressthem.
For each occurrence of a singular term in a sentence there willbe a corresponding constituent in the proposition expressed .
.
.
.
in thecase of a singular term which is directly referential, the constituent ofthe proposition is just the object itself.
(Kaplan 1989, p. 494)Kaplan never denied that a proposition might contain concepts or descriptions--heonly said that indexicals refer to entities without introducing any concept or descrip-tion into the proposition.
He argued that the same is true for proper names, but forconvenience I will ignore this and translate proper names as constants of the repre-sentation language.Suppose direct reference is right.
Consider an utterance that contains indexicalsreferring to people, places, or times.
These people, places, or times must be constituentsof the proposition expressed by that utterance.
It follows that this proposition is nota sentence of a representation language--because p ople, places, and times cannotbe constituents of sentences.
If we maintain a sentential theory, we must concludethat this utterance xpresses a proposition that no one can believe or know--becausethe propositions that people believe and know are sentences, but the proposition theutterance xpresses is not a sentence.
Then we cannot interpret "Mary believes thatP" as meaning that Mary believes the proposition that P expresses.
Instead she mustbelieve a sentence that is somehow related to the proposition P expresses.
What canthis relation be?642Andrew R. Haas Indexical Expressions in the Scope of Attitude Verbs3.2 A New Semantics for Attitude ReportsCrimmins and Perry (1989) proposed a new approach to NPs in the scope of attitudereports.
They proposed the idea as a modification of situation semantics, but it is easilyincorporated into a sentential theory.
I will first consider their work and then describea sentential version of their ideas.Crimmins and Perry begin by distinguishing between beliefs and propositions.Beliefs are mental entit ies--they would not exist if there were no thinking beings.
Aproposition is not a mental entity.
It consists of a property or relation and a sequenceof arguments.
The proposition that John loves Mary consists of the relation of lovingand the sequence of John and Mary.
This proposition contains the people themselves,not concepts or representations.
So it is a singular proposition.
It also contains therelation of loving, which is not a symbol or a concept, any more than John or Mary is.The beliefs that Crimmins and Perry consider in their paper are similar to atomicsentences of a representation language.
Each belief involves a k-ary idea (similar toa k-ary predicate of representation language) and a sequence of k notions (similar toclosed terms of representation language).
To represent the structure of the belief wewrite16 (Ideak,Notionl .... Notionk).An idea is normally an idea of some property or relation.
We write Of(Idea k) for theproperty or relation that Idea k is an idea of.
Likewise a notion is usually a notion ofsomething, and we write Of(Notion1) for the individual that Notion~ is a notion of.In Crimmins and Perry the object of a notion can change over time, and the function"Of" takes a time as one of its arguments.
I have simplified by omitting this argument.The content of a belief is a proposition.
In particular, if (16) describes the structureof a certain belief, then its content is a proposition consisting of the relation Of(Idea k)and the sequence of individuals Of(Notion1) .
.
.
.
.
Of(Notionk).
We write this propositionas17 ((Of(Ideak); Of(Notion1),...,Of(Notionk))).In this case we say that the notion Notionj is responsible for filling the j-th argumentposition in proposition (17).According to Crimmins and Perry, an attitude is a ternary relation.
Its argu-ments are an agent, a proposition, and a sequence of notions.
Let us take belief asan example.
The belief relation holds between agent a, proposition p, and notionsNotion1 ... .
Notionk iff a has a belief whose content is p, and that belief has the form18 (Ideal,NOtion1 ... .
Notionk).That is, the notions Notion1,... Notionk are the ones responsible for filling the argumentpositions in the proposition p. The belief report says that the agent has a belief whosecontent is p, but it says more: it specifies the notions that appear in that belief.Consider the Superman example above.
Lois has two notions of Superman/Kent - -call them k and s. The notion k occurs in the beliefs that Lois would express in Englishas "Kent was born on Earth" and "Kent cannot fly."
The notion s occurs in beliefs thatLois would express as "Superman was born on Krypton" and "Superman can fly."
Let"Identity" be the identity relation, which holds between x and y iff x -- y.
When Kentpoints at the picture and says "Lois thinks I am that man," he asserts that the beliefrelation holds between Lois, the proposition19 ((Identity;Superman,Superman)l,643Computational Linguistics Volume 19, Number 4and the sequence of k and s. The assertion is true if Lois has a belief whose content is(19), and that belief has the form20 (Ideal;k,s).Since the content of this belief is (19), Ideal must be Lois's idea of the identity relation.Kent is not just saying that Lois has a belief whose content is (19)--he is also assertingthat this belief contains particular notions k and s. Because k and s are distinct, belief(20) is not a trivial inference from the belief that everything is equal to itself.When Kent says "Lois thinks I am me," he is describing a trivial belief that Loiswould express in English as "Kent is Kent."
He is asserting that the belief relationholds between Lois, the proposition (19), and the sequence of k and k. The assertionis true if Lois has a belief whose content is (19), and that belief has the form21 (Ideal,k,k).Then Kent's two assertions express two different propositions.
Each proposition con-sists of the belief relation and a triple containing Lois, proposition (19), and a sequenceof two notions.
In the first assertion the sequence is \[s,k\], while in the second assertionit is \[k,k\].
Since the two assertions express different propositions, it is quite possiblethat one is true and the other false.
Thus Crimmons and Perry are able to explain theopacity of indexicals.This simple solution to the problem has one drawback.
We claim that when Kentpoints and says "Lois thinks I am that man," he expresses a proposition that refersdirectly to two notions k and s that appear in Lois's beliefs.
The sentence "Lois thinksI am that man" contains a proper name that refers to Lois, and indexicals that refer toKent, but it contains no word or phrase that refers to k or s. k and s are constituentsof the proposition Kent expressed, but his words do not name or describe them in anyway.
k and s are what Crimmins and Perry call unarticulated constituents.There is clear evidence for unarticulated constituents in cases that do not involveattitudes.
For example, the verb "rain" takes two logical arguments: a time and aplace.
Sometimes they are both articulated: "It rained in New York last night."
Oftenthe place is unarticulated.
If you return from Bermuda I might meet you and say "Hi,how was your trip?"
You might reply "It rained every day."
You have expressed aproposition with Bermuda among its constituents, though you did not use any name,description, or indexical expression that refers to Bermuda.
Such examples how thatwe cannot object o the ideas of Crimmins and Perry because they rely on unarticulatedconstituents.The reader should note that we must generalize Crimmins and Perry's idea inorder to handle quantification into the scope of attitudes.
Suppose we have "Everyman thinks his wife is smart."
Each man has a notion of his wife, and the speakeris presumably referring to a function that maps each man to the correct notion.
Wecannot represent this example in Crimmins and Perry's notation, because it is not clearhow they intend to represent quantifiers.4.
Sentential Semantics for Attitudes--Version Two4.1 Singular Propositions and SentencesCrimmins and Perry firmly deny that a proposition is a sentence or an internal rep-resentation.
Yet in order to account for opacity, they need to use notions, which areinternal representations.
Since internal representations play an essential role in theirexplanation of opacity, it is natural to ask if we can find a similar explanation withina sentential theory.644Andrew R. Haas Indexical Expressions in the Scope of Attitude VerbsIf direct reference is right, the proposition that an utterance xpresses cannot bea sentence.
However, it might still be a lot like a sentence.
Let us assume that asingular proposition is an ordered pair, containing a wff with free variables and anassignment of values to those variables.
For example, an utterance of "I am nowin London" might express a proposition consisting of the wff in(x, london,y) and afunction that maps x to the speaker and y to the time of the utterance.
I will writethis singular proposition as ('in(x,london,y),f), where f is a function mapping x to thespeaker and y to the time.
This account of singular propositions is consistent withKaplan's description: the referents of indexicals are constituents of the proposition,and propositions are "structured entities looking something like the sentences whichexpress them."
Kaplan's description obviously gives us a lot of leeway; I am takingadvantage of that leeway to make singular propositions as much like sentences aspossible.
I will show that by adopting this view of singular propositions, we canaccount for the opacity of indexicals within a sentential theory of attitudes.Suppose, as in Section 2.2 above, that Lois's beliefs contain two constants k ands that denote Superman/Kent,  and these constants occur in beliefs (12-15), amongothers.12 personal_name(k, "Clark Kent")13 profession(k,reporter)14 personal~name(s,"Superman")15 profession(s,superhero)When Kent says "Lois thinks I am that man," he is expressing a singular propositionthat refers directly to the terms k and s. This proposition says that k and s denoteSuperman/Kent,  and that Lois believes the sentence k = s. The proposition is (P,f),where P is the wff22 denote(z, x) A denote(w, y) A believe(lois,subst('(x = y), \['x, 'y\], \[z, w\]))and f is the function that maps x and y to Superman, z to k, and w to s. Note thatthe variables x and y have both quoted and unquoted occurrences in this wff.
Theunquoted occurrences refer directly to Superman, while the quoted occurrences are inthe arguments of the function letter "subst."
These occurrences serve to indicate theplaces where the ground terms z and w, denoting Superman, occur in Lois's belief.This double use of the variables is a little confusing, but it will simplify the semanticinterpretation rules for attitude verbs.When Kent makes the uninteresting assertion "Lois thinks I am me," he expressesa different singular proposition.
This proposition is (P, g), where P is wff (22) and g isa function that maps x and y to Kent, z to the constant k, and w also to the constant k.These two singular propositions contain the same wff- - they differ oMy in the valuesthey assign to the variables in that wff.
The second proposition says that Lois believesthe trivial sentence k = k. Since they describe different beliefs, it is quite possible thatone is true and the other false--even if Kent and Superman are the same person.
Sothis analysis can account for opaque indexicals.Suppose we accept direct reference and also maintain a sentential theory of atti-tudes.
Then in "Mary believes that P," the utterance of P expresses a singular proposi-tion, while Mary's belief is a sentence.
We must somehow construct this sentence fromthe singular proposition expressed by P. Our proposal for this construction is in twoparts.
First, we suggest hat a singular proposition is a pair (Q,f), where Q is a wffand f is a function that maps the free variables of Q to their values.
This is consistentwith Kaplan's ideas about singular propositions, and it suggests an obvious way ofconstructing a sentence: we replace each free variable x in Q with a ground term that645Computational Linguistics Volume 19, Number 4denotes the value f (x ) .
To complete the construction, we must choose a ground termfor each free variable of Q.
Here we rely on Crimmins and Perry's notion of unartic-ulated constituents.
We claim that the ground terms we need are constituents of theproposition expressed by "Mary believes that P" even though they are not namedor described by any words of the utterance.
Given these ground terms, we take theproposition expressed by P and construct the sentence that Mary believes.
In this waywe can reconcile direct reference with a sentential theory of attitudes.4.2 Further ExamplesSuppose John says "I am smart."
Hearing his words, one would naturally describeJohn's belief by saying "He thinks he is smart."
In this sentence the pronoun "he"appears in the scope of an attitude verb, and it represents the subject's use of a firstperson pronoun.
Castafieda (1968) coined the term quasi- indicator for an occurrenceof a pronoun that is in the scope of an attitude verb and that represents the subject'suse of some indexical expression.We can analyze this example as follows.
John's belief is the sentence smart(i),where i is the constant hat John normally uses to refer to himself.
This constant willplay a special role in perception, introspection, and planning.
If John sees a lion infront of him, his sensors will create the belief (3x.
lion(x) A inXront_of(x, i)).
If helearns by introspection that he believes the world is round, he will form the beliefbel(i, 'round(world)).
If John wants to achieve a goal represented by a sentence P, hewill try to identify an action x such that (do(i, x) --* P) is true.
See Haas (1986) forfurther examples of how an agent can use a standard constant o refer to himself orherself.
Such a constant is called the agent's elfnarne.An utterance of "John thinks he is smart" would normally express a singularproposition (Q , f ) ,  where Q is the wff23 denote(z,john) A believe(john,subst('smart(x),\['x\], \[z\]))and f is a function that maps the variable z to John's selfname.
It is possible that thereare other terms in John's internal language that denote John, and in some unusualsituation, an utterance of "John thinks he is smart" might refer to one of those otherterms.
But a person who says "John thinks he is smart" would normally be referringto John's selfname.Let us give an informal statement of the semantic rule for attitude verbs thatwe are proposing.
Consider a sentence of the form "John believes that P," where Pis a clause.
P will express a singular proposition (Q,g), where Q is a wff with freevariables Xl, ?
?
?, xn and g is a function mapping these variables to their values.
We canrefer to Q by the constant 'Q.
Let tl, ?
?
?, tn be closed terms of representation language--terms that (in the speaker's opinion) appear in John's belief and denote the individualsg(xl) , .
.
.
~ g(Xn).
Let R be formed by substituting t l , .
.
.
,  tn for free occurrences of Xl, .
.
.
~Xn in Q.
Then R is the sentence that (the speaker claims) John believes.To refer to R, we must be able to refer to h, .
?
.
,  tn.
For this purpose we choose newvariables yl,.
?., yn, distinct from Xl, ?
.
.
,  Xn.
We will use the variable yi to refer directlyto the closed term ti.
Therefore we define a new assignment of values to variables.
Letf be a function whose domain consists of the variables Xl, ?
?., xn and yl~ ?
?., yn, withf (x i )  = g(xi )  for i from 1 to n, and f (y i )  = ti for i from 1 to n.If the free variables yl~.. .
,y~ have the values given by f, then the termsubst('Q, \['Xl,..., 'Xn\], \ [Y l , .
.
.
,  yn\]) denotes the sentence R. The sentence "John believes646Andrew R. Haas Indexical Expressions in the Scope of Attitude Verbsthat P" can express a singular proposition (S,f), where S is the following wff:24 denotes(y1, X1) A ' .
-A  denotes(yn, xn) A believe(john, subst('Q, \[ 'Xl, .
.
.
, 'Xn\],~!~1,-.
', Yn\]).This proposition says that for i from 1 to n, ti is a closed term of representationlanguage that denotes the individual g(xi), and John believes the sentence R formedby substituting each ti for the variable xi in the wff Q.
Since Xl,..
?, x, includes all freevariables of Q, and there are no free variables in t l , .
.
?, tn, the result of this substitutionis indeed a sentence, not a wff-- just as the sentential theory requires.
Note that thevariables X l , .
.
.
, x ,  have both quoted and unquoted occurrences in this wff.
Thesevariables were already present in the singular proposition (Q,g) expressed by thesentence P, where they referred irectly to the individuals g(xl ) , .
.
.
,g(x,).
The wff Qappears under a quotation mark in wff (24), but the occurrences of Xl,.
?., x~ under thequotation mark do not refer directly.
Instead they serve to indicate where the closedterms t l , .
.
.
,  tn occur in John's belief.
For i from 1 to n, the variable xi also occursunquoted in (24), as the second argument of the predicate "denote."
The unquotedoccurrence of xi refers directly to the individual g(xi) = f(xi).
We could avoid thisdouble use of the variables x l , .
.
.
,  Xn by complicating the semantic interpretation rule.Notice that h, .
?., t~ can be any closed terms of the representation language.
Foreach choice of tl, ?
?
?, tn we get a possible interpretation for an utterance of the sentence"John thinks that P." This interpretation is "possible" in the sense that it is consistentwith the syntax and semantics of English.
The speaker of the utterance intends torefer to a particular sequence of terms t l , .
.
?, tn, and the hearer must use knowledgeof the speaker and situation to make some inferences about t l , .
.
.
,  tn.
It is possiblethat the hearer will infer enough about tl,.
?
?, t~ to identify each of them uniquely, butwe should not assume that the hearer must actually identify h , .
.
.
,  tn.
It is possiblethat the hearer can learn something from the utterance, or produce a helpful response,given only a limited knowledge about the terms t l , .
.
.
,  tn that the speaker intends torefer to.The object of an attitude verb may itself be an attitude report: for example, "Ithink you think you are smart."
Let us check that our proposal allows a reasonablesemantic interpretation for this example.
Suppose the speaker is John and the heareris Mary.
John knows that in Mary's belief about her own smartness, the term thatdenotes Mary is her selfname.
He does not know which constant is Mary's selfname,but he can refer to that constant as selfname(mary).
Then John's belief about Mary'sbelief would be25 bel(mary, subst('smart(x), \['x\], \[selfname(mary)\]).According to our semantics, an utterance of "I think you think you are smart" hasmany possible interpretations.
I will show that there is one possible interpretationthat is true iff John believes (25).The clause "you are smart" expresses a singular proposition consisting of wff26 smart(x)and a function that assigns Mary as the value of the variable x.
According to oursemantics, the clause "you think you are smart" expresses a singular proposition con-sisting of the wff27 denotes(n, x)A think(y, subst('smart(x), \['x\], In\]))and a function f that assigns values to the free variables of this wff.
The variable xoccurred in wff (26), and the function f assigns it the same value that it had in (26):647Computational Linguistics Volume 19, Number 4f(x) is Mary.
The variable y represents he pronoun "you," and the hearer is Mary, sof(y) is also Mary.
The variable n could refer to any closed term denoting Mary.
Let nrefer to Mary's selfname; then f(n) is Mary's selfname.
We have now chosen one ofthe possible interpretations for an utterance of "you think you are smart.
"The interpretation f "I think you think you are smart" will consist of the wff28 denotes(m1, x) A denotes(m2, y) A denotes(m3, n)A think(z, subst('(denotes(n~ x) A think(y, subst('smart(x)~ \['x\], \[n\]))),\['x, % %\[ml~ m2~ m3\] ) ).and a function g that assigns values to the free variables of this wff.
The variable zrepresents he pronoun "I," so g(z) is John himself.
The variables x, y, and n occurredin the wff (27), so the function g assigns them the same values that f assigned.
Sincex and y refer to Mary, g(ml) and g(m2) must be closed terms that denote Mary.
Letg(ml) = g(m2) = the constant mary.
Since n refers to Mary's selfname, g(m3) must be aclosed term that denotes Mary's selfname.
Let g(m3) be the term selfname(mary).
Wehave now chosen one of the possible interpretations for an utterance of "I think youthink you are smart.
"To find the belief described by (28), we take the first argument of "subst" and wesubstitute the constant "mary" for x and y and the term "selfname(mary)" for n. Theresult is29 denotes(selfname(mary),mary) A think(mary, subst('smart(x), \['x\],\[selfname(mary)\]))If John believes (29), he can trivially infer (25).
Conversely, suppose John believes (25).It is common knowledge that an individual's elfname denotes that individual, soJohn can easily infer the conjunction (29).
So we have found a possible interpretationof the utterance that is true iff John believes (25).5.
ConclusionsWe are given a belief report: "Mary believes that P." We have a parser and semanticinterpreter that can identify the proposition expressed by P. We want to use thisinformation to predict Mary's behavior--say, her answer to a given question.
Supposewe know the algorithm that Mary uses for answering questions.
Since the algorithm'sinput is a set of representations, we need to find Mary's internal representation forthe proposition expressed by the clause P.If the proposition expressed by a clause is a sentence of a representation lan-guage, our problem is already solved: Mary's representation f the proposition justis the proposition.
Unfortunately, we have seen that this kind of theory cannot ex-plain opaque indexicals.
It seems that Mary's representation must be distinct from theproposition it represents, and if we are given the proposition it will take some reason-ing to find the representation.
If we are going to distinguish between a propositionand its internal representation, we would like a clear and simple picture of how theyare related, and how we are to find the representation when the proposition is known.We have proposed that the proposition expressed by P is a pair, containing a wff andan assignment of values to the free variables of the wff.
To find Mary's representationwe must find the terms she uses to represent the values of the free variables, andsubstitute these terms for the corresponding variables in the wff.
In Crimmins andPerry's work, a proposition and its representation are two quite different objects.
Aproposition consists of objects and relations, while a representation consists of "ideas"648Andrew R. Haas Indexical Expressions in the Scope of Attitude Verbsand "notions."
If we need both internal representations and singular propositions, it issimpler to assume that they are closely similar objects--instead of radically differentobjects, as in Crimmins and Perry.The examples that motivate this work are unfortunately remote from the textsthat computational linguists currently work on.
In studying opacity we concentrateon cases where an agent uses two different representations without realizing that theyrefer to the same entity.
Such cases are popular in fiction, but rare in applications likemachine translation or question-answering from a database.
So it will be some timebefore these ideas are helpful in the practice of computational linguistics.
However,indexicals occur constantly in human speech, and opacity is a crucial issue in anytheory of propositional attitudes.
So if we are serious about a sentential theory ofattitudes, it is important to be certain that such a theory can explain opaque indexicals.AcknowledgmentThis work was supported by the NationalScience Foundation under grant numberIRI-9006832.ReferencesBarwise, Jon, and Etchemendy, John (1987).The Liar.
Oxford University Press.Barwise, Jon, and Perry, John (1983).Situations and Attitudes.
MIT Press.Castafieda, Hector-Neri (1968).
"On thelogic of attributions of self-knowledge toothers."
Journal of Philosophy, 65(15),439-456.Crimmins, Mark, and Perry, John (1989).
"The prince and the phone booth:Reporting puzzling beliefs."
Journal ofPhilosophy, 86(12), 685-711.des Rivi6res, J., and Levesque, Hector(1986).
"The consistency of syntacticaltreatments of knowledge."
In TheoreticalAspects of Reasoning about Knowledge,edited by Joseph Y. Halpern, 115-130.Morgan Kaufmann.Haas, Andrew (1986).
"A syntactic theory ofbelief and action."
Artificial Intelligence,28(3), 245-292.Haas, Andrew (1991).
"Sentential semanticsfor propositional ttitudes."
ComputationalLinguistics, 16(4), 213-233.Kaplan, David (1975).
"Quantifying in."
InThe Logic of Grammar, edited by DonaldDavidson and Gilbert Harman, 112-144.Dickinson.Kaplan, David (1989).
"Demonstratives."
InThemes from Kaplan, edited by JosephAlmog, John Perry, and HowardWettstein, 481-563.
Oxford UniversityPress.Konolige, Kurt (1986).
A Deduction Model ofBelief.
Pitman.Kripke, Saul (1975).
"Outline of a theory oftruth."
Journal of Philosophy, 72(9), 690-715.Montague, Richard (1974).
"Syntacticaltreatments of modality, with corollarieson reflexion principles and finiteaxiomatizability."
In Selected Papers ofRichard Montague, edited by RichmondH.
Thomason.
Yale University Press.Moore, Robert C., and Hendrix, Gary G.(1982).
"Computational models of beliefand semantics of belief sentences."
InProcesses, Beliefs, and Questions, edited byS.
Peters and E. Saarinen, 107-127.D.
Reidel.Perlis, Donald (1988).
"Languages withself-reference II: Knowledge, belief, andmodality."
Artificial Intelligence, 34(2),179-212.Reichenbach, Hans (1947).
Elements ofSymbolic Logic.
The Free Press.649
