Commentary on Kaplan and KayMark  L iberman 1(University of Pennsylvania)Anyone with a fundamental interest in morphology and phonology, either from ascientific or a computational perspective, will want to study this long-awaited papercarefully.Kaplan and Kay (henceforth K&K) announce two goals: "to provide the core ofa mathematical framework for phonology" and "to establish a solid basis for com-putation in the domain of phonological and orthographic systems."
They show howthe algebra of regular relations, with their corresponding automata, can be used tocompile systems of phonological rules in the style of SPE, including directionality,optionality, and ordering.
They sketch mechanisms for incorporating a lexicon andfor dealing with exceptional forms, thus providing a complete treatment in a unifiedframework.This accomplishment i  itself will not compel the attention of many working pho-nologists, who have found good reasons to replace the SPE framework (see Kenstowicz\[1994\] for a survey of modern practice), and whose efforts since 1975 have been aimedmainly at finding representational primitives to explain typological generalizations,support accounts of learning, generalization and change, and provide one end of themapping between symbols and speech.
In this effort, there has been little emphasis onSPE's goal of giving phonological descriptions an algorithmically specified enotation.Perhaps this paper, despite its superficial lack of connection to contemporary work inphonology, will set in motion a discussion that will ultimately redress the balance.On the computational side, practitioners of practical NLP will be happy to makeextensive use of the algebra of regular relations, since it provides a truly elegantengineering solution to a wide range of problems.
However, although direct interpre-tation of some simple FSTs can be efficient (e.g.
Feigenbaum et al 1991), and althoughKoskenniemi has documented efficient implementation techniques for his two-levelsystems, the overall architecture presented in this paper is not practically usable aswritten, because of either the size of the resulting automata or the time needed for(unwisely implemented) nondeterminism, or both.A range of well-known techniques enable programs based on the algebraic om-bination of (unary) FSAs to make efficient use of both time and space.
Although thesemethods do not apply to FSTs in general, we may presume that K&K have developedanalogous techniques for the crucial range of cases.
With the growing interest in thistechnology, we can expect hat either K&K will publish their work or others will reca-pitulate it, so that the algebra of regular relations can take its proper and prominentplace in the toolkit of computational linguistics.ReferencesFeigenbaum, J.; Liberman, M. Y.; and Wright,R.
N. (1991).
"Cryptographic protection ofdatabases and software."
In DistributedComputing and Cryptography,edited by J. Feigenbaum and M. Merritt,161-172.
DIMACS Series, AMS and ACM.Kenstowicz, M. (1994).
Phonology inGenerative Grammar.
Blackwell.1 University of Pennsylvania, 619 Williams Hall, Philadelphia, PA 19104-6305.379
