The Reconstruction Engine:A Computer Implementation of theComparative MethodJohn B. Lowe*University of California, BerkeleyMartine Mazaudon tCNRS, ParisWe describe the implementation f a computer program, the Reconstruction Engine (RE), whichmodels the comparative method for establishing enetic affiliation among a group of languages.The program is a research tool designed to aid the linguist in evaluating specific hypotheses, bycalculating the consequences of a set of postulated sound changes (proposed by the linguist) oncomplete l xicons of several languages.
It divides the lexicons into a phonologically regular partand a part that deviates from the sound laws.
RE is bi-directionah given words in modern lan-guages, it can propose cognate sets (with reconstructions); given reconstructions, it can projectthe modern forms that would result from regular changes.
RE operates either interactively, allow-ing word-by-word evaluation of hypothesized sound changes and semantic shifts, or in a "batch"mode, processing entire multilingual exicons en masse.We describe the algorithms implemented in RE, specifically the parsing and combinatorialtechniques used to make projections upstream or downstream in the sense of time, the proceduresfor creating and consolidating cognate sets based on these projections, and the ad hoc techniquesdeveloped for handling the semantic omponent of the comparative method.Other programs and computational pproaches tohistorical linguistics are briefly reviewed.Some results from a study of the Tamang languages of Nepal (a subgroup of the Tibeto-Burmanfamily) are presented, and data from these languages are used throughout for exemplification fthe operation of the program.Finally, we discuss features of RE that make it possible to handle the complex and sometimesimprecise representations of lexical items, and speculate on possible directions for future research.1.
IntroductionThe essential step in historical reconstruction is the arrangement of related words indifferent languages into sets of cognates and the specification of the regular phono-logical correspondences that support that arrangement; he well-known means forcarrying out this arrangement and specification is the comparative method (see, forexample, Meillet 1966; Hoenigswald 1950, 1960; Watkins 1989; Baldi 1990).
Words thatare not demonstrably related (via regular sound change) are explained by referenceto other diachronic processes that are beyond the scope of the comparative methodand of this paper.
Sound change is first to be explained as a rule-governed processand other explanations (which invoke more sporadic and less predictable processes)* Department of Linguistics, University of California, Berkeley, CA 94720.
E-mail:jblowe@garnet.berkeley.edut LACITO-CNRS, 44 rue de l'Amiral-Mouchez, 75014 Paris, France.
E-mail:mazaudon@LACITO.msh-paris.fr(~) 1994 Association for Computational LinguisticsComputational Linguistics Volume 20, Number 3Phonologically 'semi-regular' 'irregula~ 'residue''regular' (word ~amilies, (borrowing,allofamy, etc..) analoKy , etc.
)Key:A.B.C.D.E.EG.H.The complete lexicon.Regular sound change (modeled by RE proper).Regular, "expected" reflexes of the ancestor forms.Domain of "protovariation," perhaps due to morphological/derivational processes;handled by RE with "fuzzy" constituents.Sub-regularities licited through relaxed constraints (word families, allofams, 1 etc.
)Sociolinguistic explanation.
Domain of lexical diffusion and other sporadic processes.Borrowings, analogized forms, hypercorrections, prestige pronunciations, etc.The "mystery pile": counterexamples and other troublesome words.Figure 1The "sieve" of explanation i historical linguistics.offered when it is clear that nonphonological forces are at work, as illustrated in Figure1.
There will always be a number of lexical items for which no scientific explanationcan be advanced: not all words are entitled to an etymology (Meillet 1966).This paper discusses problems and solutions associated with automating researchinto diachronic processes acting in (B) in Figure 1 above.
Our solutions are imple-mented in a program we call the Reconstruction E gine, hereinafter RE (earlier versionsare described in Lowe and Mazaudon \[1989\] and Mazaudon and Lowe \[1991\]).
2 REis a prototype computational tool that automates a crucial portion of the comparative1 The term 'allofamy,' due to Matisoff (1978), refers to relationship 'among the various individualmembers of the same word-family.'
English royal and regal, borrowed from French and Latin,respectively, are both ultimately traceable to the same PIE root *reg-, and so are co-allofams in ModernEnglish (Matisoff 1978:16-18, Matisoff 1992:160).
A word family might contain both native words andwords borrowed from related languages; the borrowings may be recent or ancient.2 RE is written in SPITBOL, a dialect of SNOBOL4.
The current implementation is specific to 80386 andhigher microcomputers running MS-DOS.
A C++ version is planned.382Lowe and Mazaudon The Reconstruction Enginemethod: the process of creating cognate sets and proposing reconstructions on thebasis of observed correspondences between modern languages.
It treats those wordsof the lexicon that fall into pile C in Figure 1 above (and to a lesser extent hose thatfall into pile E).
It must be emphasized that the relative sizes of the piles in Figure 1are completely arbitrary.
It would not be unusual for the list of problems (H) to be thelargest.
Especially in cases where languages are in close contact or are only distantlyrelated, the regular component of the lexicon may be expected to be quite small.RE functions as a "checker" of hypotheses proposed by the linguist.
It has no in-ferential component in the sense usually used in describing expert systems (Charniak& McDonald 1985).
Our aim is to verify the internal consistency of a set of phono-logical correspondences, created beforehand by the linguist, against the lexicons ofan ensemble of putatively related languages, and to gauge the extent o which thosedata are consistent with the given phonological and phonotactic descriptions (i.e.
cor-respondences and syllable canon).RE has several features that represent a significant advance in the automatedhandling of diachronic data.
First, it provides exhaustive treatment of the data inseveral dimensions:?
It processes complete lexicons of modern languages.
Every modern formis evaluated by the program in a consistent and complete way.?
Each form is completely analyzed.
Modern forms that are only partiallyregular are not included in cognate sets.?
The correspondences and syllable canon form a complete and unifiedstatement of the diachronic phonology of the languages treated.Second, RE contains a number of features that make it flexible in handling the kindsof data realistically encountered in historical research.?
Provisions exist for allowing several different ranscriptions to be used inrepresenting the data.?
There are no requirements hat the data be organized beforehand bygloss, semantic field, phonological shape, or other criteria.?
The size and type of constituents used in the analysis are not limited bythe program.
There is no requirement, for example, that a segmentalanalysis be used (as opposed to the initial-plus-rhyme-plus-tone a alysiscommonly used for many Asian languages, for example).
However, theprogram does not provide for nonlinear epresentations or discontinuousconstituents: the "absolute slicing hypothesis" is assumed.
Also, thelinearization of constituents must be the same for all the language dataused by the program.
For example, the tone numbers used in thelanguages cited in this paper, which might equally well be orderedbefore as after the segmental strings to which they apply, are uniformlywritten at the beginning.?
Several competing analyses of the same data can be managed andcompared simultaneously.The rest of the paper is structured as follows: Section 2 introduces ome termi-nology, explains some particulars of the group of Tibeto-Burman languages used in383Computational Linguistics Volume 20, Number 3examples, and describes RE in broad strokes to motivate and provide context for subse-quent discussion.
Section 3 reviews ome of the past work in the area of computationalhistorical inguistics, especially as it relates to the current effort.
Section 4 details thealgorithms and data structures used in RE.
Section 5 discusses the results obtainedusing RE and comments on practical and methodological limitations to this approach.Section 6 discusses extensions to the "core" functions of RE: the handling of imprecisedata, the treatment of variation due to diachronic and synchronic processes, the adhoc semantic system for disambiguating homophones at both the modern and protolevels, and semi-automatic methods for generalizing over sets of phonological rules.Section 7, the conclusion, offers some caveats about computer applications in the areaof historical inguistics and invites collaboration on more comprehensive software ofthis type.2.
Overview of Algorithms and Data Structures2.1 A Few Preliminary Remarks about the Data and TerminologyWe shall attempt o be precise in our use of the linguistic terminology related to his-torical reconstruction: when lexical items, or modern forms from the various lexicons ofindividual languages, are grouped into cognate sets on the basis of recurring phono-logical regularities (correspondences) they will be referred to as reflexes.
The ancestorword-form from which these regular reflexes derive is called a reconstruction, proto-form, or etymon.
Thus, English father, German Vater, Greek pater, and Sanskrit pitr- areall reflexes of a Proto-Indo-European (PIE) etymon reconstructed as something like*poter- (the asterisk indicates that this word is a reconstruction and not an attestedform).
The relations between the constituent phonological elements of etyma and theirmodern reflexes are called sound laws and are usually written in the form of diachronicphonological rules; for example, PIE *p > Eng l i sh / f / .
/ f / i s  said to be the outcome ofPIE *p in English.
Languages that share a common ancestor are said to be the daughtersof that ancestor.The data on which our study and these examples are based and that are usedin exemplifying the operation of the program are taken from the Tamang group ofthe Bodic division of the Tibeto-Burman branch of the Sino-Tibetan family in Shafer'sclassification (Shafer 1955), spoken in Nepal (Mazaudon 1978, 1988).
The reconstructedancestor, Proto Tamang-Gurung-Thakali-Manang, is abbreviated *TGTM.
Four moderntones (numbered 1to 4) are recognized in the modern languages and two proto-tonecategories (labelled A and B) are reconstructed.
The tones of both reconstructed anddaughter forms are transcribed before the syllable, e.g.
Abap.
The eight dialects usedare discussed in detail by Mazaudon (1978).
The dialects and their abbreviations are(as cited in columns 5 to 12 of the Table of Correspondences in Figure 9a): Risiangku(ris), Sahu (sahu), Taglung (tag), Tukche (tuk), Marpha (mar), Syang (syang), Ghachok(gha), and Prakaa (pra).2.2 Synopsis of the Reconstruction EngineRE implements (i) a set of algorithms that generate possible reconstructions given wordforms in modern languages (and vice versa as well) and (ii) a set of algorithms thatarrange input modern forms into possible cognate sets based on those reconstructions.The first set implements a simple bottom-up arser; the second automates databasemanagement chores, such as reading multiple input files and sorting, merging, andindexing the parser's output.384Lowe and Mazaudon The Reconstruction EngineProtoformsProgramTable ofcorrespondencesandSyllable?
CanonExpectedRegularReflexesorActualmodernformsFigure 2Input-output diagram of RE's basic projection functions.The core functions of RE compute all possible ancestor forms (using a Table ofCorrespondences and a phonotactic description, a Syllable Canon, both described inSection 3.1) and makes sets of those modern forms that share the same reconstructions.Tools for further dividing of the computer-proposed cognate sets based on semanticdistinctions are also provided.
The linguist (that is, the user) collects and inputs thesource data, prepares the table of correspondences and phonotactic description (syl-lable canon), and verifies the semantics of the output of the phonologically basedreconstruction process.
RE, qua "linguistic bookkeeper," makes the projections andkeeps track of several competing hypotheses as the research progresses.
Specifically,the linguist provides as input to the program:(a) Word forms from several modern languages, with glosses.
(b) Parameters that control the operation of the program and interpretationof input data (mostly not described here).
(c) A file containing the Table of Correspondences, detailed below.
(d) The Syllable Canon, described below.
(e) Semantic information for disambiguating modern and reconstructedhomophones, described below.The parsing algorithm implemented in RE is bi-directional (in the sense of time):the "upstream "3process involves projecting each modern form backward in time andmerging the sets of possible ancestors generated thereby to see which, if any, areidentical.
Conversely, given a protoform, the program computes the expected regularreflexes in the daughter languages, as illustrated in Figure 2.The process can be done interactively (as illustrated in Figure 3 below) or in batchusing machine-readable lexicons prepared for this purpose.Figure 3 is a representation f the contents of the computer screen after the user hasentered three modern words (1).
The program has generated the reconstructions fromwhich these forms might derive (2).
The list of numbers (called the analysis) followingthe reconstruction refers to the row numbers in the table of correspondences used by3 Upstream in the sense of time.
We had originally described the temporal directions of the program asbackward and forward.
The opposit ion of upstream and downstream, suggested to us by John Hewson,one of the developers of the first "Electronic Neogrammarian,"  (Hewson 1973) is much  more intuitive.385Computational Linguistics Volume 20, Number 3?3 modemformssupplied bythe user(9computer-proposedcognatesets ~ .Q Possiblereconstructionsfor the 3 formsare generated...-I Wile\] \[Windows\] \[Query\] [Setup/Status\] \[RE\]- Modem Forms -* Reflexes1.
ris2.
sahu3.
tag4.
tuk5.
mar Spo6.
syang Spo7.
gha8.
pra SPe--Reconstructionsmar ~po*Abap/3.138.26*Abo:/3.138.61syang ?po*Abap/3.138.26*Ab0:/3.138.61pra 3pe*Abap/3.138.26Proposed Cognate Sets1..aba.p/3.138.26 (mar S'po; syang Spo; pra 3pe)Z. Abo:/3.138.61 (aar '~o; syang Spo)Figure 3A simple example of interactive "upstream" computation (transcription and languagesexemplified are described in Section 2.1).the program in generating the reconstructions.
In two cases reflexes have more thanone possible ancestor.
The program has then proposed the two cognate sets that resultfrom computing the set intersection of the possible ancestors (3).
The proposed setsare listed in descending order by population of supporting forms.
4Conversely, given a protoform, RE will predict (actually "postdict') the regularreflexes in each of the daughter languages.
Figure 4 reproduces the results on thecomputer screen of performing such a "downstream" calculation.
Here the etymonentered by the user (1) produced reflexes (2) through two different syllabic analyses(numbered 1. and 2. in the "Reflexes of .
.
."
window): Abap as initial /b - /  plus vowel/ -a - /  plus final / -p / ,  and as initial /b - /  followed by rhyme/ -ap / .
The algorithmsused in this process are described in Section 4.2.3.
Previous Research in Computational Historical LinguisticsIn order to provide some context for a discussion of our efforts, we first present a briefdiscussion of the computational pproaches to the study of sound change and reviewsome of the software developed (see also Hewson 1989).Applications of computers to problems in historical inguistics fall into two dis-tinct categories: those based on numerical techniques, usually relying on methods ofstatistical inference; and those based on combinatorial techniques, usually implement-ing some type of rule-driven apparatus specifying the possible diachronic development4 In fact, the situation is sl ightly more complicated than is shown here: there are two other possiblereconstructions and another possible cognate set that are not shown because of space considerations.This example is discussed in more detail in Section 5.1.386Lowe and Mazaudon The Reconstruction E gineQ ...._...reconstructionentered by user?Jpossible regularoutcomes._nter Etymon: Abap 1\[File\] \[Windows\] \[Query\] \[Setup/Status\] \[RE\]Reflexes of Abap1.
Abap13.19.25.23.ris 3papsahu 3paptag 3pap, 3haptuk 3pap, 3pew~r 3p0s~ng ~po, ~ogha Spa:/ / / / ~  pra 3pe2.
Abap/3.19.8.rls 3papsahu 3paptag Spap, 3haptuk 3pep, Spo w~r 3p0syang 3po, Lpogha 3pa:pra 3peFigure 4The expected outcomes of *Abap (a "downstream" computation).of language forms.
The major features of a few of these programs are reviewed brieflybelow.
The programs discussed by no means exhaust the field; the criteria for selectingthem is that they have been described in the literature sufficiently for an evaluation,and that for this reason they have come to the attention of the authors.
Indeed, theliterature in this field is fragmented: starting in the 1960s and 1970s a sizable literatureon the lexicostatistic properties of language change developed following Swadesh'searlier glottochronological studies (for example, Swadesh 1950).
On the other hand,only a handful of attempts to produce and evaluate software of the rule-applicationtype (for use in historical linguistics) are documented in the literature (Becker 1982;Brandon 1984; Durham & Rogers 1971; Frantz 1970; Kemp 1976).
In general theseprograms eem to have been abandoned after a certain amount of experimentation.Certainly the problem of articulating a set of algorithms and associated data sets thatcompletely describe the regular sound changes evidenced by a group of languages ia daunting task.To the first class belong lexicostatistic models of language change.
The COMPASSmodule of the WORDSURV program described below belongs to this class (cf.
Wimbish1989).
It measures degree of affiliation using a distance metric based on the degreeof similarity between corresponding phonemes in different languages.
Also to thisclass belong applications that measure genetic affiliation as a function of the numberof shared words in a selected vocabulary set.
Any method that depends on counting"shared words," we note, assumes the existence and prior application of a means ofdetermining which forms are cognate; and any such estimates of the relatedness oflanguages are only as good as the metric that determines which ones are cognate.387Computational Linguistics Volume 20, Number 3Language C1 C2 C3 C4 Reflex GlossFox p lak ~ m poohke~amwa 'he cuts it open'Cree p sk s m pooskosam 'he cuts it open'Menomini .
.
.
.Ojibwa p ~k ~ n pa~ko~aan 'he cuts it down'Ojibwa p kk ~ n pakkwee~aan 'he slices off a part'Figure 5Potential Proto-Algonkian cognates (after Hewson 1974:193-194).To the second class belong programs that model sound change as sets of rulesapplied to derive later forms from earlier forms, and RE is a member of this class.Examples of programs of this sort are PHONO, being applied to Latin-to-Spanish data(and described below); VARBRUL (by Susan Pintzuk) used to analyze Old English, andtwo programs used to analyze Romance languages: Iberochange, based on a rule-processing subsystem called BETA, used for lbero-Romance languages (Eastlack 1977)and one unnamed (Burton-Hunter 1976).3.1 Hewson's Proto-Algonkian ExperimentThe "proto-projection" techniques used by RE were implemented earlier by JohnHewson and others at the Memorial University of Newfoundland (Hewson 1973,1974).
5 The strategy is transparent; as Hewson notes, he and his team decided to"follow the basic logic used by the linguist in the comparative method" (Hewson1974:193).
The results of this research ave recently been published in the form of anetymological dictionary of Proto-Algonkian (Hewson 1993).The program as first envisioned was to operate on "consonant only" transcriptionsof polysyllabic morphemes from four Amerindian languages.
The program would takea modern form, "project it backwards" into one or more proto-projections, then projectthese proto-projections i to the next daughter language, deriving the expected regularreflexes.
The lexicon for this language would be checked for these predicted reflexes;if found, the program would repeat he projection process, zig-zagging back and forthin time until all reflexes were found.
For example, given Fox/poohke~amwa/he cuts itopen, the program would match the correct Cree form, as indicated in Figure 5.There were problems with this approach.
In cases where no reflex could be found(as in Figure 5, where no Menomini cognates for this form existed in the database), theprocess would grind to a halt.
Recognizing that "the end result of such a programmewould be almost nil" (Hewson 1973:266), the team developed another approach inwhich the program generated all possible proto-projections for the 3,403 modern forms.These 74,049 reconstructions were sorted together, and 'only those that showed identi-cal proto-projections i  another language' (some 1,305 items) were retained for furtherexamination.
At this point Hewson claimed that he and his colleagues were then ableto quickly identify some 250 new cognate sets (Hewson 1974:195).
The vowels wereadded back into the forms, and from this a final list of cognate sets was created.
Acognate set from this file, consisting of a reconstruction a d two supporting forms, isreproduced below (Figure 6).5 The authors of RE developed this technique independently and later discovered this methodologicallysimilar computer p oject on Proto-Algonkian.388Lowe and Mazaudon The Reconstruction E gineLanguage Form Gloss Protomorpheme* (ProtoAlg.)
PEQTAAXKWIHCINWA BUMP (*-AAXKW)M (Menomini) P3QTAAHKIHSEN HE BUMPS INTO A TREE OR SOLID ...O (Ojibwa) PATTAKKOCCIN BUMP/KNOCK AGAINST... \[STHG\]Figure 6Proto-Algonkian cognate set (after Hewson 1973:273).3.2 WORDSURVThe Summer Institute of Linguistics (SIL), a prodigious developer of software for thetranslating and field linguist located in Dallas, Texas, provides a variety of integratedtools for linguistic analysis.
One of these tools, the COMPASS module of WORDSURV,allows linguists to compare and analyze word lists from different languages and toperform phonostatistic analysis.
To do so, the linguist first enters "survey data" intothe program; reflexes are arranged together by gloss, as illustrated in the reproductionin Figure 7.In addition to the a priori semantic grouping of reflexes by gloss, the linguist mustalso re-transcribe the data in such a way that each constituent of a reflex is a singlecharacter, that is, "no digraphs are allowed.
Single unique characters must be used torepresent what might normally be represented by digraphs..,  e.g.
N for ng."
(Wimbish1989:43).
The program also requires that part of the diachronic analysis be carried outbefore entering the data into the computer in order to incorporate that analysis intothe data.
For example, when the linguist hypothesizes that "a process of sound changehas caused aphone to be lost (or inserted), a space must be inserted to hold its place inthe forms in which it has been deleted (or not been inserted)" (Wimbish 1989:43).
Thatis, the zero constituent must be represented in the data itself.
The program also containsa "provision for metathesis .
.
.
.
Enter the symbols > n (where n is a one- or two-digit(1) (2) (3) (4)Group Reflex Lan@ua~e Abbreviat ion0 RAAABCCCDD-- no entry --faderfaterpadreareaa~)a  - -hapa datataNtatay>4EGSiTMPBIhat)Figure 7"Properly aligned word forms" for FATHER in WORDSURV (Wimbish 1989:43).389Computational Linguistics Volume 20, Number 3number) after a word to inform WORDSURV that metathesis has occurred with the nthcharacter and the one to its right" (Wimbish 1989:43).
An example of this may be seenin column 3 of Figure 7.
To represent tone, the author notes that "there are at least wosolutions.
The first is to use a number for each tone (for example lma3na).
The secondsolution is to use one of the vowel characters with an accent .
.
.
.
The two methods willproduce different results" when the analysis is performed (Wimbish 1989:44).
Whilethe last statement may surprise some strict empiricists (after all, the same data shouldgive the same results under an identical analysis), it should come as no surprise to lin-guists who recognize that the selection of unit size, the type of constituency, and otherproblems of representation may have a dramatic effect on conclusions.
RE is distin-guished from this program in that (i) no a priori grouping of forms by gloss is required(a step that is fraught with methodological problems inasmuch as it requires the lin-guist to decide a priori which forms might be related), (ii) no alignment of segmentsis required (also a problematic step for a number of reasons), and (iii) the constituentinventory is not limited to segments.
In passing, the lexicostatistics that are computedare based on the "Manhattan distance" (in a universal feature matrix) between cor-responding phonemes from different languages as a measure of their affiliation.
Thevalidity of this measure for establishing enetic affiliation is suspect: correspondingphonemes may be quite different in terms of their phonological features without alter-ing the strength of the correspondence or the closeness of the genetic affiliation.
Also,the metrics of feature spaces are notoriously hard to quantify, so any distance mea-sures are themselves likely to be unreliable.
RE computes no such statistics, thoughsome tools (described below) that might be used in subgrouping do exist.3.3 DOC: Chinese Dialect Dictionary on ComputerDOC is one of the earliest projects to attempt a comprehensive tr atment of the lexiconsof a group of related languages.
DOG was developed "for certain problems \[in which\]the linguist finds it necessary to organize large amounts of data, or to perform ratherinvolved logical tasks--such as checking out a body of rules with intricate orderingrelations."
(Wang 1970:57).
A sample dialect record (in one of the original formats) isillustrated in Figure 8.
Note that as in the case of WORDSURV, the data must be pre-segmented according to a universal phonotactic description (in this case the Chinesesyllable canon) that the program is built to handle.
The one-byte-one-constituent re-striction does not exist, though the (maximum) size of constituents is fixed with thedata structure.At least four versions of this database and associated software were produced(Cheng 1993:13).
Originally processed as a punched-card file on a LINC-8, the programunderwent several metamorphoses.
An intelligent front-end was developed in Clipper(a microcomputer-based database management system) that allows the user to performfaceted queries (i.e.
multiple keyterm searches) against he database.
The database isavailable as a text file (slightly over one megabyte) containing forms in 17 dialects forsome 2,961 Chinese characters (Cheng 1993:12).
DOG has no "active" component: it isa database of phonologically analyzed lexemes organized for effective retrieval.3.4 Phono: A Program for Testing Models of Sound ChangePHONO (Hartman 1981, 1993) is a DOS program that applies ordered sets of phonologicalrules to input forms.
The rules are expressed by the user in a notation composed ofif-then clauses that refer to feature values and locations in the word.
PHONO convertsinput strings (words in the ancestor language) into their equivalent feature matricesusing a table of alphabetic haracters and feature values supplied by the user.
Theprogram then manipulates the feature matrices according to the rules, converting the390Lowe and Mazaudon The Reconstruction EngineDialect Tone Initial Medial Nucleus Endinq0052 192 - 3 L HI KN 7PEZ\]iXY3 3 L U A NXI-AN 3 L U A ZTAI -YUAN 3 L U A ZHAN-KCU 3 L U ~E ZCHEkE--UJ 3 L A NYA~SHCU 3 L U O ZWEN-ZHO 3B L U 03CHAGV~SHA 3B N 0 ZFigure 8A dialect record in DOC (cited from Figure 7 in Wang \[1970\]).matrices back into strings for output.
Hartman has developed a detailed set of rulesthat derive Spanish from Proto-Romance.
Besides allowing the expression of diachronicrules in terms of features, facilities are included to handle metathesis.
Unlike RE, whichhandles only one step (at a time) in the development of multiple languages, PHONOtraces the history of the words of a single language through multiple stages.4.
Description of Data Structures and AlgorithmsWe turn now to RE, which represents another step in the application of computationaltechniques to the problems faced by historical linguists.
As will become clear, any com-putational tools designed to be used by historical linguists must be able to operate inthe face of considerable uncertainty.
In the course of carrying out a diachronic analy-sis the linguist is likely to have several competing hypotheses that might explain theobserved variation.
Data from many sources, varying in quality and transcription, willbe compared.
The research will proceed incrementally, both in terms of the portionsof the lexicons and phonologies treated and in the number of languages or dialectsincluded.
RE as a tool helps with only a portion of this task, the problem of creatingand maintaining regular cognate sets and the reconstructions that accompany them.4.1 Principal Data Structures: The Table and the CanonTwo data structures (internal to the program) are relevant o the phonological re-construction, and these are passed as arguments to RE.
The first is a Table of Cor-respondences (Fig.
9a) representing the linguist's hypothesis about the developmentof the languages being treated.
The columns of the table are (1) a correspondence s tnumber, uniquely identifying the correspondence; (2)the distribution of the correspon-dence within the syllable structure (i.e.
the type of syllable constituent: in this case,Tone, Initial, Liquid, Glide, Onset, Rhyme, Vowel, or Final); (3) the PROTOCONSTITUENTitself; (4) the phonological context (if any) to which the correspondence is limited;(5-12) the OUTCOME or reflex of the protoconstituent i  the daughter languages.
6 The6 The term reflex will be reserved for describing a complete modern form that is the regular descendantof some protoform.
Outcome will be used for the regular descendent of a protoconstituent.391Computational Linguistics Volume 20, Number 3(1) (2) (3) (4)N ConT * con~xt1 T A /_Cv 13 T A /_eva...93 I k94 I k /_w181 F k,..142 L r /p ,ph ,b_169 0 r102 0 kr /_e:103 0 k r  /u104 0 k r  /_a105 0 kr /_a t106 0 kr31 R,V a186 V a /_p(5) (6) (7) (8) (9) (10) (11) (12)ris s~'~hu tag tuk mar svang mha orai X H I I jH  1 H 1 i H i 13 X~ L 3 3 3 3 3 L 3 3k k k k k k k kk ~ h k k k k kr r r r r r r 1 -=rr r r r r r r rk k k ~ k k kr krkr kr h t k k kr krkr kr hw t kj kj kr krkr kr h ~ kj kj kr krkr kr h t k k kr krO.
8.
~.
O O O ~.
"8"a ~.
a O 0 0 8.Figure 9aExcerpt from the Table of Correspondences.\ [T ,O\ ]  \[O(G),I(L)(G),f~\] \[R, VF\]T =Tone L = L iqu idO = Onset  R = RhymeG = G l ide  V = VowelI = In i t ia l  Consonant  F = F ina l  consonantO = ZeroFigure 9bSyllable canon in Proto-Tamang.CONSTITUENT TYPES (T, I, F, L, etc.
in column 2) are specifiable by the user.
So, for exam-ple, C and V could be chosen if no other types of constituents need to be recognizedfor the research.
Note that the table allows for several different outcomes dependingon context; the absence of context indicates either an uncondit ioned sound change orthe Elsewhere case of a set of related rules (as discussed below).The second data structure is a syllable canon that provides a template for buildingmonosyllables.
It specifies how the constituents of the table of correspondences maybe combined based on the (syllable) constituent types (column 2 of the table).
Thus,the outcomes for a f ina l /k / (cor respondence  181) and an in i t ia l /k / (cor respondence93) are never confused by the program.
The program takes the syllable canon as an392Lowe and Mazaudon The Reconstruction Engineargument expressing the adjacency constraints on the constituents found in the table.For example, the canon for *TGTM, illustrated in Figure 9b, has three slots, each ofwhich has its own substructure: first, a tone (optional, as indicated by the possibilityof a zero element); followed by an (also optional) initial element consisting of variouscombinations of Onset, Glide, Initial, and Liquid; and terminating with either a Rhymeelement or a Vowel plus Final consonant.
A syllable is composed of zero or moreelements from each of these slots.
Picking the longest possible combination from eachslot produces the maximal syllable permitted by the canon containing six constituents(TILGVF), one from each constituent type except O and R. Similarly, the minimalone has only one constituent (R).
Parentheses indicate optional elements and bracketsseparate sequential slots in the syllable structure.This description, a type of regular expression, provides a shorthand evice forexpressing several possible syllable structure trees.
Indeed, the Proto-Tamang SyllableCanon is quite complex in this respect, because several hypotheses about syllablestructure are encoded in it.
For other languages, in which only consonant and vowelneed be distinguished in describing syllable structure, a simpler canon (e.g.
CV(C))might suffice.
Polysyllabic syllable canons can be expressed and used by the canon intwo ways:?
Explicitly, for example \[CV(C)\]\[CV, O\] a bisyllabic canon in which theminimal form is CV and the maximal is CVCCV.As a recursive application of a single syllable.
This is done via a softwaretoggle that allows the canon structure to be repeatedly mapped over aninput form.
For example, if the polysyllable toggle is turned on, thecanon \[(C)V(C)\] would match forms of the form V, CVC, CVCCV,CVCVCVV, etc.4.2 Algorithms4.2.1 Generating Proto-Projections.
Given a form, three steps are required to projector transform a modern form into a set of possible reconstructions or vice versa: (i) to-kenizing the given form into a list of row numbers in the table of correspondences(column 1 of Figure 9a), (ii) filtering the tokenized forms according to syllabic andphonological constraints, and (iii) substituting the actual outcomes in the Table ofCorrespondences for the tokens.Tokenization.
On a first recursive pass RE generates (recursively from the left of theinput form) all possible segmentations of the form.
That is, starting from the left, theprogram divides the form into two, and then repeats the process on the right-handpart until the end of the form is reached.
Essentially, this algorithm implements astandard solution to a standard problem, that of finding all parses of an input formgiven a regular expression (encoded in this case in the syllable canon and table).
Asthe segmentation tree is created, the program checks to see that the node being builtis actually specified as an element of the Table of Correspondences and thus avoidsbuilding branches of the tree that cannot produce outcomes (according to the Table ofCorrespondences).
The pseudocode in Figure 10 outlines the algorithm.
Consider forexample the segmentations of:(1) ~Akra head hair393Computational Linguistics Volume 20, Number 3/* GENERATE: STEP ONE: Tokenize input form */Tokenize(InputString,TokenList)/* base case */if InputString is null then return(TokenList)for i = I to the length of InputStringleftside = leftmost i characters of InputStringrest = the rest of InputStringlookup leftside in list of constituents for this table columnif found thenadd tokens (i.e.
TofC row numbers) for this constituent to TokenListotherwise/* abandon this parse */end ifTokenize(rest,TokenList)end forend TokenizeFigure 10Pseudocode for tokenizing forms into table constituents.There are eight ways to segment this protoform:(2) Akra A-kra Ak-ra Akr-aA-k-ra Ak-r- a A-kr- aA-k-r- aOf these eight segmentations, only two are composed completely of elements thatoccur in the protoconstituent column (3) of the table.
For each of the valid segmen-tations, RE constructs a tokenized version of the form, in which each element of thesegmented form is replaced with the correspondence or list of correspondences for thatconstituent in the table.
*k, for example, has three possible outcomes (given by rows93, 94, and 181 of the Table of Correspondences), depending on its syllabic positionand environment.
(3)(4)Segmentations whose elements are ALL constituents of the table:(a) Segmentation:Tokenized form:(b) Segmentation:Tokenized form:A k r a(\],3) (93,94,181) (142,169) (31,186)A kr a(1,3) (102,103,104,105,106) (31,186)Segmentations that contain elements NOT found in the table:Segmentation Tokenized form(c) Akr-a (?
)(31,186)(d) Akra (?
)(e) A-k-ra (1,3)(93,94,181)(?
)(f) Ak-ra (?)(?
)(g) Ak-r-a (?
)(142,169)(31,186)(h) A-kra (1,3)(?
)394Lowe and Mazaudon The Reconstruction E gine/* GENERATE: STEP TW0: Convert Tokenized form into possible outcomes */FilterAndSubstitute(TokenList,ListofPossibleForms)/*  base case * /i f  TokenList  i s  NULL then  re turn(L i s to fPoss ib leForms)/*  recurs ive  s tep  * /fo r  each RowNumber of f i r s t  segmented e lement in  TokenListi f  phono log ica l  and sy l lab ic  context  const ra in ts  are met thenfo r  each language in  the  tab leadd outcomes fo r  th i s  RowNumber to  each output  form inListofPossibleForms for this languageend ifotherwise/~ do not use this token in building output forms ~/end ifend forremove first segmented element from TokenListFilterAndSubstitute(TokenList,ListofPossibleForms)end FilterAndSubstituteFigure 11Pseudocode for filtering possible projections and substituting regular outcomes.Filtering.
Having created and tokenized a list of all valid segmentations, the algorithmtraverses each tokenized form, looking up each correspondence row number of eachsegment in the table and substituting the outcome of that row from the appropri-ate column of the table.
As the output form is being created, the phonological andphonotactic contexts are checked to eliminate disallowed structures, as illustrated inthe pseudocode given in Figure 11.The segmentation in (3b) above(5) A-kr-a (1,3)(102,103,104,105,106)(31,186)would produce 20 (= 2 x 5 x 2) different outcomes based on the different ordered com-binations of its tokens were it not for syllabic structure constraints and phonologicalcontext constraints:(6) 1.102.31 1.104.186 3.106.311.103.31 1.105.186 3.102.1861.104.31 1.106.186 3.103.1861.105.31 3.102.31 3.104.1861.106.31 3.103.31 3.105.1861.102.186 3.104.31 3.106.1861.103.186 3.105.31With these constraints, however, only one combination is licensed: 1.104.31, because:(i) only the tone correspondence for row 1 applies since it specifies the outcome ofprototone A for voiceless initials; (ii) only outcomes of row 104 for *kr- are generatedsince this is the most specific rule that applies; and because (iii) row 186 is eliminatedas a possibility for *-a in this case, since these outcomes only occur when *-a is followedby *-p.Some complications in the application of the rules should be noted here.
The pro-gram does apply Panini's principle, also known as the Elsewhere Condition (Kiparsky1973, 1982).
Thus, of all the possible *kr- correspondences, only the most specific is395Computational Linguistics Volume 20, Number 3selected.
For example, though the context in line 104 *-a is a substring (or subcontext)of line 105 *-at, only one or the other is selected for any particular segmentation ofa protoform ending in *-at (i.e.
104 for *-a- + *-t vs. 105 for *-at).
If the "specificity"of several applicable contexts is the same, all are used by the program in generatingthe forms.
7 Also, note that since the context is stated in terms of proto-elements, whencomputing backwards (upstream) the program must tokenize and substitute ahead todetermine if the context of a correspondence applies.Substitution.
In the final step, the program substitutes the outcomes for each corre-spondence row in each of the language columns of the table and outputs the expectedreflexes.
The expected outcome of just the segmentation A-kr-a in Tukche, for example,(Figure 9a, column 8 tuk) is either 1\[o or H\[O.8 The segmentation A-k-r-a, though avalid segmentation of the input form into table constituents, would fail to produceany reflexes because the phonological context criterion is not met.This process is performed for each language column in the table, resulting in alist of the modern reflexes of the input protoform.
This assumes, of course, that thereconstructed forms are correct, the rules are correct, and no external influences havecome into play.
By comparing these computer-generated modern forms with the formsactually attested in the living languages we can check the adequacy of the proposedanalysis, and make improvements and extensions as required.4.2.2 Combinatorial Explosion and Syllable Structure.
The example given above hasonly a few possible segmentations.
Consider, however, the possible valid segmentationsof the *TGTM form *Bgrwat hawk, eagle, schematized in Figure 12.
There are, of course,a substantially larger number of invalid segmentations.
Each token of a segmenta-tion may have a sizable list of possible outcomes.
One can see that even relativelyuncomplicated monosyllables are capable of causing massive ambiguity in structuralinterpretation.
Indeed, some of the monosyllabic forms in the Tamang database gener-ate nearly 100 reconstructions, even given the limitations of syllabic and phonologicalcontext.4.2.3 Computing Upstream and Creating a Set of Cognates.
The preceding discus-sion (i.e.
in Section 4.2.1) shows how the Table of Correspondences can be read fromancestor to daughter (left to right), downstream in the sense of history.
It can also beread from daughter to ancestor (right to left), upstream, revealing all the possible an-cestors of a given modern segment of a particular language.
For example, we can seefrom the excerpt in Figure 9a that Syang /k /  (in column 10 of the table) could derivefrom either *k- or *kr- (to be read from the column of protoconstituents (column 3) ofthe table).By combining, according to the syllable canon, all the possible permutations of*initial, *tone, and *rhyme for the initial, tone, and rhyme of a modern word, the7 There is a great deal more to say about specificity and the complexity of the environmental constraints,so much so that a separate and rather lengthy discussion of it is merited.
As currently implemented inRE, context must be stated in terms of immediately adjacent constituents (remote context cannot beused).
Also, the context must be stated in terms of constituents (i.e.
atoms), or lists of constituents:regular expressions and other possible definitions are not supported.
Specificity ismeasured inastraightforward way: correspondence rules with no context have low specificity (specificity =0).
Ruleswith a one-sided context have specificity 1.Rules with a contextualizing element on both sides havespecificity 2.Only integer specificities are supported.8 The cover symbol " is used to permit he upstream reconstruction f Tukche forms in which the tone ofthe modern form is not precisely known.
In the downstream direction, however, it licenses thegeneration oftwo possible reflexes.396Lowe and Mazaudon The Reconstruction EngineType of syllable constituentT I L O G R V F Structure(1) ~ gr  w a t TOGVF(2) B gr  w at  T O G R(3) B g r wa t T 0 V F(4) ~ gr wat T O R(5) B g r w a t T ILGVF(6) ~ g r w a t T I L G R(7) B g r wa t T I L V F(8) ~ g r wa t T I L RFigure 12Segmentation f *Bgrwat 'hawk, eagle.
'computer can, using exactly the same procedures as described in Section 4.2.1, createa list of its possible reconstructions.
If the possible reconstructions of a set of wordsthat are cognate are compared, it must be true that one or more of the reconstructionsis the same for all words in the set (assuming, of course, that the words are relatedvia regular sound changes).In the example in Figure 13, this computation has been done on the modernforms for the word snow in four languages of the TGTM group.
Each column containsthe possible reconstructions for the modern reflex listed on top of the column.
Acomparison of the columns (or examination of the Venn diagram below) shows thatone reconstructed form, *Bgli~ (in row 1), is indeed supported by all the members  ofthe cognate set, and that these four languages provide sufficient data to rule out someof the other reconstructions proposed on the basis of one language alone.
94.3 The Database Management Side of Historical ReconstructionUsing the interactive mode of RE described above is a good way to "debug" the tableof correspondences and canon.
However, RE is most useful as a means of analyzingcomplete lexicons.
The four processes involved in creating reasonable cognate setsfrom a set of lexicons of modern forms are schematized in Figure 14.
They are:.2.3.4.segmentation of lexemes and generation of proto-projections,comparison of proto-projections and creation of tentative cognate sets,merging (conflation) of subsets in the list of tentative cognate sets, andconflict resolution within and between cognate sets of homophonousreflexes and homophonous  reconstructions (i.e.
the application ofsemantic information).9 While the Taglung form itself is sufficient to determine the 'proper' econstruction in this case, and ifthe Syang form were not available, it would break the tie between the other competing reconstructions(Bglin, BgilJ, and Bgin), it is usually difficult o pick out such decisive lexical items from a list ofwords.397Computational Linguistics Volume 20, Number 3Tukche  Manang4k in 4kh~Syang41iraTaglung4khli@1.
~91i~ ~ii92.
~glin ~qlin3.
~glim4.
~gi~ ~qi~5.
Bgin ~gin6.
~gim7.8.~gli~~glimSlimkk  Syang~I imBgl i r  3 snow in Proto-Tamang(8 different protoforms produced from 4 reflexes)Figure 13Bgli~ snow in Proto-Tamang (8 different protoforms produced from 4 reflexes).
Selecting the'best' reconstruction from the list of possible reconstructions.The algorithms for each of these processes are outlined in the pseudocode inFigures 15a-c. First, the Tokenize and FilterAndSubstitute procedures are performedfor each form in each source dictionary.Next, the list of reconstructions generated is examined and those reconstructionsthat fail to have sufficient support are eliminated.
The remaining reconstructions areretained.Third, each set is compared with each other set to get rid of those which aresubsets of other sets (a type of "set covering problem," discussed in Section 5.1 below).This is primarily a data reduction process, and not interesting algorithmically.
We havetherefore not provided pseudocode describing it.
It is, however, NP-hard, and thereforetakes a lot of time for a dataset of any size.
1?10 For a discussion of set-covering and NP-complete problems, see, for example, Ralston and Reilly(1993), 938-941.398Lowe and Mazaudon The Reconstruction E gine?
(CModem 1 FormsFI .
LProtoforms 1Bet Creation and I / Co~l~tian iTable of Correspondences andSyllable CanonI "Provisional" Cognate Sets 1?
Io,, on Eq~il~;nce\[ \]Figure 14Input-output diagram ofRE's basic batch functions./* STEP ONE: Backward projection of modern formssetup tables for the language data file to be processedget appropriate columns from TofCset language codes, etc.
for outputInitialize list of reconstructionsend setupfor each language_dictionaryfor each modern_form from language_dictionary /* i.e.
for each word indictionary */Initialize TokenListTokenize(modern_form) /* see pseudocode for this function above */Initialize ListofPossibleFormsFilterAndSubstitute(TokenList,ListofPossibleForms) /* upstream!
*/Apply Panini's Principle (Elsewhere condition) to select ((allowed''reconstructionscheck each reconstruction generated against list of reconstructions:if the reconstruction already exists in the list,link modern_form to existing reconstructionotherwiseadd reconstruction and link to modern_form into listend ifend forend forFigure 15aPseudocode for RE's basic batch functions--first create reconstructions.Finally, if the linguist is able to provide (on the basis of analysis of previous runs)semantic riteria for distinguishing homophones, the program can separate the sets399Computational Linguistics Volume 20, Number 3/* STEP TWO: create C'pseudo'' cognate sets */for each reconstruction in list of reconstructionsif reconstruction is supported by data from two or more languages thenoutput reconstructionoutput supporting formsend ifend forFigure 15bPseudocode for RE's basic batch functions---next, create first group of cognate sets./* STEP FOUR: semantic processing: splitting and remerging of *//* sets based on semantics */divide a set into two based on list of glosses selectedfor each of the newly created divided setsif (it is supported by data from at least two different languages) and(it is not now a subset of some other existing cognate set) thenretain the divided setotherwisedelete the divided setend ifend for/* check the division in the rest of the sets */for all other sets containing any subset of these glossesif words with semantically incompatible glosses appear thendivide the set (as was done above)end ifend foroutput cognate setsFigure 15?Pseudocode for RE's basic batch functions--semantic component.into sets that contain only semantically compatible reflexes.
The method for accom-plishing this is described in Section 6.1 below.The first step, creating the list of proto-projections, is merely a matter of iterativelyapplying the reconstruction-generating procedures described in Section 4.2.1 to all theforms in the files.
The list of protoforms obtained by running all the entries of amodern dictionary backward through tlhe program is saved for later combination withreconstructions generated by words from other languages.
The process is illustratedin Figure 16.
Note that forms that fail to produce any reconstructions are saved in aresidue file for further analysis.
In the example below (Figure 16), we see that a Nepaliloan word, Tukche/2gar/  house, failed to produce any reconstructions in the proto-language, because there exists a phonological subsystem for Nepali loans in Tukchethat does not conform to the phonology of native words (i.e.
the phonology describedby the Table of Correspondences).
In particular, no voiced initials have survived inTukche.
In other cases, forms collected :in the check files may indicate a mistake in theTable of Correspondences, which needs to be corrected to allow the word to reconstructsuccessfully.
Note that the Tukche words in this example are glossed in French (neige"snow," oeil "eye," maison "house"), as they are taken from a French-Tukche dictionary.This is a significant fact, as will be explained in Section 6.1.Combining the lists of reconstructions forseveral languages into a single sequenceand sorting by the proposed reconstructions brings together all reflexes that coulddescend from a particular reconstruction (Figure 17).400Lowe and Mazaudon The Reconstruction E giner PossibleprotoformsAgli~ tuk 4kin 'neiqe'Aqlin tuk 4kin 'neige'agin tuk akin 'neiqe'Aqi~ tuk 4kin 'neiqe'Ahmit tuk Hmi 'oeil'Ahmit tuk Hmi 'oeil'Ahmi tuk ~mi 'oeil'Ahmi tuk Hmi 'oeil'.
.
.
.df ProgramI Table JList of modernforms whichfail toreconstruct2gaF 'mai3on'Dictionaryof Tukche4kin 'neiqe'~mi 'oeil'Xgar 'maison'i C"Figure 16Proposition of protoforms and the residue ("check") file.From this sorted list, RE extracts matching reconstructions, with their supportingforms, and proposes them as potential cognate sets (Figure 18).
Ideally, rules would besufficiently precise for the program to propose only valid sets, and sufficiently broadnot to exclude legitimate possibilities.
However, there is a certain amount of redun-dancy and uncertainty in the rules that tends to result in several possible reconstruc-tions for the same cognate set.
On the other hand, some forms that do produce possiblereconstructions cannot be included in a cognate set because their reconstruction doesnot match that of any word in the other languages.
These isolates (not illustrated) arecollected by the program during the set creation process and maintained as a separatelist.The first evaluation measure hypothesized for establishing the validity of a cognateset was the number of supporting forms.
The program retained cognate sets when thenumber of supporting forms from different languages reached a certain thresholdvalue.
However, many reasonable cognate sets had forms from only a few languages.The handling of this problem and other problems having to do with the compositionof the proposed cognate sets is dealt with in more detail in Section 5.5.
The Constituency of Cognate SetsIf sound change proceeded in such a way as to perfectly maintain semantic andphonological contrasts through time, the diachronic situation would be quite simple.401Computational Linguistics Volume 20, Number 3Sorted ?
Reconstructions~gli~ tuk akin 'nelge'man akh~'snow'tag akhli~ 'snow' Spa alia 'snow'~glin tuk akin 'neige'man akhI'snow'Jgl im man akhi 'snow'Spa 41ia 'snow'~gi~ tuk akin 'neige'man 4kh~'snow'~ in  tuk akin 'neige'man 4kh~'snow'~glm man 4khi 'snow'Bli~ spa alia 'snow'Slim spa alia *snow'etc...possible Protoforas(for Tukche)~li~ tuk akin 'nelge'~glin tuk 4kin 'neige' ~-- ~gin tuk akin 'neige'~i~ tuk akin ~eige ~ramit tuk Eml 'oeil'~mit  tuk Hmi 'oeil'~hml tuk nmi 'oeil*possibleProtoforms (for Mamang)~li~ man 4khl 'snow' ~lin man akhi 'snow'd,.-- ~glim man akhi 'snow'b in  man akhi 'snow'~gi~ man akhl 'snow'Famik man ~i 'eye'~hmit man 2mi 'eye'possible Protoforms (for Taglung)~li~ tag akhli~ 'snow'~hmlt tag Zmi: 'eye'shmi: tag zmi: 'eye'possible ?
Protoforls (for Syang)~li~ sya 41in 'snow'~glim sya 41im 'snow'd,.-.
Slim sya Slim 'snow'Sli~ sya alim 'snow'~hmje sya zml 'eye'mnmi sya ~ i  'eye'mami: spa 2mi 'eye'%ProsramTable 1ProgramTable 1ProgramTable 1ProgramTable 1Is Dictionary of 1 Tu.kchekin 'neige': Hmi 'oeil' ~ ar 'maison'I~ Dictionary of 1 ManangLkh~ 'snow'~ i  'eye 'I4 Dictionaryof 1 Taglungkhli~ 'snow'~i :  'eye'I4 k Dictionaryof 1 Syangin 'snow'Figure 17Upstream computation in batch.Phonemes would change into other phonemes but not merge or split."
Words wouldmutate in phonological shape, but would remain distinct from other words in bothform and meaning.
Making cognate sets in such a situation would be quite straight-forward.
In reality, neither semantic nor phonological distinctions are maintained overtime.
We will examine some of the implications of this situation.5.1 Many Reconstructions May Be Possible for a Given Set of CognatesThe process of "triangulation" (discussed in Section 4.2.3 and in some detail in Loweand Mazaudon \[1989, 1990\] and Mazaudon and Lowe \[1991\]) provides a means for11 Merger efers to the diachronic process by which the distinction between two (or more) phonemes ilost.
Words that were minimal pairs on the basis of this distinction become homophones.
Split refers tothe process by which a phoneme becomes two (usually because of some modification i the context).402Lowe and Mazaudon The Reconstruction E gine*TGTM Abe;/3.136.32.gha 3po leafman 3pa: leafris 3p ~ ~, feuille d'arbresahu 3pa: leaftuk 3pa leafFigure 18A "Cognate Set" generated by RE.selecting the best reconstruction ut of several candidates.
If it were possible apriori todetermine which reflexes might fall together based on the correspondences, it wouldbe possible to preserve just those reconstructions from which all the reflexes mightdescend (and discard the other reconstructions).
This situation is the one illustratedwith the words for snow in Figure 13.
However, when entire lexicons are processed, itis not necessarily possible nor even desirable to attempt to partition the lexemes intocomparable sets to begin with.
It is necessary to generate all possibilities and laterto eliminate the undesirable ones through a sort of competition.
Using the numberof supporting forms in a cognate set as the sole or primary criterion for keeping theset was found to be an inadequate heuristic: some perfectly good sets have only threemembers, while others with more members are shaky and in some cases imply wrong.An example of this competition is illustrated in Figure 19 (another representationof the data presented in Figure 3).
Here, as in the Bgli~ snow example (Figure 13),several different cognate sets composed of the same reflexes but having different re-constructions have been generated.
The reflexes clearly fall together into the sameoverall cognate set, but the reconstruction f several of the forms is non-unique: thereconstruction *Abo: is supported by forms from Marpha and Syang, while *Abap issupported by all four languages.
This cognate set, then, reflects a merger of severalsmaller sets, as indicated in the Venn diagram.
The Risiangku form disambiguates thereconstructions, showing that *Abap should be recognized as the winning reconstruc-tion (it is marked with the *; other reconstructions supported by various subsets ofthe reflexes are marked with !*).
As an aside, this process of set conflation can only beaccomplished once all the words in all the lexicons are processed.
The problem thenpresented is a set-covering problem (one of the various kinds of NP-complete prob-lems for which no fast or easy solution exists).
In the case of our Tamang database, inwhich about 7,000 modern forms yield about 8,000 different reconstructions that havesupporting forms from at least two languages, et conflation takes several hours onour 386-based machine.5.2 Other Kinds of Competition for ReflexesA number of other types of overlapping can occur.
And in general, the cognate sets ofcompeting reconstructions donot nest as neatly as they do in the previous example.
Itis often the case that the cognate sets may merely overlap to some extent.
These casesfall into several distinct classes:First, there exist some overlapping sets in which neither set is a proper subset ofthe other; the reflexes fit semantically, so the problem is one of reconciling the recon-403Computational Linguistics Volume 20, Number 3*AbLp/3.138.47.r i s  3pLp beer -mLsh!
*Abep13.138.26.p ra  3pe beer -mLsh!~Abo=/3.138.61mar 3po beer -m~shsya~q ~po beer -mash*Abap/3.138.47.!
*Ab op/3.138.26.!
*Ab o :/3.138.61.mar Spopra Speris 3papsyang ~pobeer-mashbeer-mashbeer-mashbeer-mashFigure 19Nested cognate sets.structions.
Figure 20 illustrates the problems that arise when semantically compatiblereflexes upport different reconstructions.This particular situation results from an uncompensated merger (of length) that isnow in progress: the length distinction appears to be on its way out in the Risiangkudialect (abbreviated "ris" in Figure 20).
This explanation is based on knowledge of thelanguage and an internal analysis of its phonology.
At this time it is not clear whatalgorithm (if any) could be used to sort out cases like these.A similar but more complicated situation can be seen in Figure 21.
Here the freevariation in vowel length generates additional possible reconstructions, and those di-alects where final consonants have been lost permit he reconstruction f variants witha final stop as well.
However, the form from the Risiangku dialect, which normallypreserves finals, cannot reconstruct (according to the table) to either the short vowelor stopped rhyme, and so another cognate set supporting a long vowel reconstructionis created.6.
Extensions to REThe processing described above produces cognate sets that are often found wantingwhen examined.
For example, homophones may be conflated in the same set thoughthey can be derived from different etyma.
Also, small irregularities in the data, whichmay be partially understood by the linguist, may cause forms to fail to reconstructinto the set in which they plausibly belong.
We discuss below extensions to RE thatdeal with some of these problems.404Lowe and Mazaudon The Reconstruction E gine*Aro13.173.60.ris 3tomar 3tosyanq 3totuk 3totaq 3ro:sahu 3?o:'kAro--/3.173.61.
*J'r o/3.173.60.mar 3r oris 31:osyang Srotuk 3ro*Az o:/3.173.61.mar 3tosahu 3r 0:syang 3tofag 3 to .tuk 3tofriendfriendfriendfriendfriendfriendfriendfriendfriendFigure 20*Aro(:) 'friend.
'*)ku/2.95.77.sahu  Zkutuk  Zku nine!
*~kup/2.95.86.gha Zkumar  Zkupra Zku*nku./2.95.78.gha Zku ninepra Zku nineris Zku: n inetuk  Z3cu nineninenineninenineFigure 21~ku(:) 'nine.
'6.1 Constraining Cognate Sets: Incorporating SemanticsNote that we have nowhere mentioned semantics in the backward computation pro-cess: in its search for new cognate sets, the algorithm works strictly on form, not onmeaning.
Indeed, one of the strengths of RE is that it initially ignores the glosses al-together, operating strictly on the forms themselves.
This approach as the advantage405Computational Linguistics Volume 20, Number 3TGTM *A\]~ am/3 .
136., 53.gha ~p~: th ightag X l~- l~a  to soakris 3p ~m 6pauleris 3p ~m mouiUer, trempersahu 3p ~ shouldertuk 3pore wet (v.i.
)Figure 22Sample of comparat ive set proposed by RE (without semantic omponent) .
12of letting a set like *Aba: (shown in Figure 18) be created, in spite of the fact thattwo different metalanguages (French and English, as illustrated in some of the earlierexamples) are used in the data files for the glosses; meaning is not being taken intoconsideration i  creating the set.
However, in cases of homophony in the protolexicon(like *Abara, shown in Figure 22) it is undesirable to conflate all reflexes that supportthe same reconstruction.
Here we can see that words belonging to at least wo differentetyma (shoulder~thigh vs. soak~wet) are mixed into a single proposed etymon.Besides allowing incompatible forms within a cognate set, a lack of semantic dif-ferentiation permits the creation of some spurious cognate sets, as is illustrated in theVenn diagrams in Figure 23.
The set supporting the three reconstructions Abe:, Abe%and Abat should be eliminated and the reflexes permitted to migrate to the cognate setto which they are semantically related.
Were some means available to specify in thiscase that no set could contain reflexes meaning both wife and beer-mash, the superflu-ous middle set and the overlap it causes would be eliminated (and the reconstructionswould be listed under the wife and beer-mash sets of which their supporting reflexesform a proper subset in the same way as depicted in Figure 19).General theories of semantics and semantic shifts are not yet sufficiently developedto be used as an a priori reference framework to constrain the search for cognates.
13Moreover, using such a framework would preclude the possibility of discovering anynew semantic relationships that might be specific to the linguistic group or the linguis-tic area under study.
So we do not wish to constrain the program at all in its first passthrough the data in search of cognate sets.
On subsequent passes, though, it wouldbe convenient not to repeatedly encounter putative cognate sets that contain semanticdiscrepancies.
It should be noted in passing that semantic discrepancies should not beconfused with semantic distance.In order to separate incompatible tymological sets, we devised an ad hoc sys-12 The X that occurs in the Taglung form is a cover symbol meaning "unspecified tone") and is usedwhen the tone of the form is unknown.
This allows RE to reconstruct the form under any of the tones.If this cover symbol were left out, RE would reconstruct this form without a prototone (permitted bythe canon), and the form would fail to form a set with other forms that do have the tone specified.13 It might be possible to apply the results of some recent research in the area, for example, Wordnet(Miller 1990), to part of the problem.
Indeed, the "semantic formulas" developed for RE are similarstructurally and conceptually to the "synsets" of Wordnet.
Ultimately, any solution would have to besensitive not only to synchronic relationships in a single language (like Wordnet) but also to semanticshifts (both universal and language-specific) and the possibility of several different glossingmetalanguages (in this case both French and English are used).406Lowe and Mazaudon The Reconstruction E gine*Ab e/3.138.19.mar  3pe wifepra 3pic wifesyang 3pe wifetuk  3pe wife*Ab e :/3.138.20.
*Ab ?
t/3.138.25.
*Aba t/3.138.44.mar  3pe wifepra 3pe beer-mashsyang ~e wifetuk  3pe wife*Abap (only the largest subset fromFigure 19 above is used here)~Abe/3.138.19.pra 3pi8 wifemar 3pe wifesyang 3pe wifetuk 8pe wife~Abe:/3.138.20.*A~et/3.138.25.
*Abat/3.138.44.3pemar 3po Seer -mashr i s  3pap beer -mashsyang 3po beer -ma~h*Abap/3 .138 .47 .Figure 23*Abe and *Abap 'compete' for reflexes.tern of "semantic tagging" using a structure we call a "semantic formula."
These arebracketed lists of glosses pecifying which glosses are semantically compatible and somight be found glossing reflexes in the same cognate set.
The formalism used is asfollows:(7)(8)\[G1, G2,... Gn\]"Extract sets which contain any gloss G1 to G~ and eliminate from thosesets reflexes with any other gloss.
Eliminate any sets which as a resulthave too few members or become subsets of other sets.
"14\[G1, G2, ?
?
?
Gm\] \[Gm+l~ Gm+2~... Gn\]... \[Ge+I, Gp+2~... Gq\]"Divide any set which contains any of the glosses G1 to Gq into sets eachof which contains reflexes whichcontain glosses only from one of the subsets\[G1, G2... Gm\]\[Gm + 1, Gm + 2, .
.
.
Gn\], etc.
; but14 In cases where a set is el iminated as a result of becoming a subset of another set, the reconstructions ofthe set being el iminated may have to be merged into the larger set.407Computational Linguistics Volume 20, Number 3*Abu: /3 .136 .32 .gha 3po leafman 3p a :  lea fris 3p a :  feuille d'arbresahu 3pa:  lea ftuk ~pa lea fFigure 24Sample of comparative cards proposed by RE (with semantic omponent).
No separation (allglosses found in the same semantic formula, (12) above).retain any reflexes which are NOT specified in any of thesubsets.Eliminate any sets which as a result of the division have too fewmembers or become subsets of other sets.
"Some examples of these semantic formulas are:(9)(10)(11)(12)\[SHOULDER, THIGH, I~PAULE\] \[MOUILLER, SOAK,TO SOAK, TREMPER, WET (V.I.
)\]\[BEER-MASH\] \[WIFE\]\[ANSWER, DIRE, REPLY, SAY, TELL, TO SAY\]\[FEUILLE D 'ARBRE, LEAF, SMALL LEAF\]etc.. .Specifically, these lists identify words in the specific language data sets being processedthat are homophonous or might have homophonous reconstructions.
They also bringtogether glosses from different languages that should be equated for purposes of di-achronic comparison.The semantic formulas are created based on examination of the initial sets pro-posed by the program.
On subsequent passes through the data, RE can be instructed totake semantics into account and (by processing a file containing these lists) divide setsof potential cognates according to the semantic formulas.
15 The result is that reflexesthat would otherwise fall together into one semantically incompatible cognate set cannow be differentiated on the basis of meaning, and separate sets can be created (seeFigures 24 and 25).
The set conflation process described in Sections 4.3 and 5.1 can beapplied after this differentiation, giving a more reasonable list of cognates.This device is presently conceived of as a simple tool to reduce noise in the output,but the semantic formulas might be studied later for an analysis of semantic shift in the15 Using semantic formulas uch as those defined in (7), for example, creates precise cognate setscomposed only of reflexes that are assured to be semantically compatible (though some likelycandidates might be eliminated when the semantic formula is incomplete).
Using semantic formulassuch as those defined in (8) would remove semantically incompatible r flexes, but leave those forwhich semantic compatibility is unspecified.408Lowe and Mazaudon The Reconstruction Engine*Abam/3 .136 .53 .gha 3t,~: th ighris 3p am 6paulesahu 3p am shoulder*Ab a ,~/3 .
136 .53 .ris 31) am mouiUer, trempertag Xb am- b a to soaktuk 3p o,* soaktuk ~pom wet (v.i.
)Figure 25Sample of comparative cards proposed by RE (with semantic omponent).
A set (exemplifiedin Figure 22) divided using semantic formula (9) above.particular group of languages.
Note that the gloss lists are created from and thereforespecific to the particular language data sets and glossing metalanguages u ed,6.2 Extension to Allofamic 16 Families and Systematic Imprecision in the Table ofCorrespondencesAs has often been noted and deplored, irregular sets of quasi-cognates, or simplegroups of look-alikes, are a necessary evil of comparative linguistics.
17 If we discardedimmediately all sets that are not absolutely regular according to the rules of phono-logical change already uncovered for the language group, we would stand no chanceof ever improving our understanding of the facts.
Using a computer to mechanicallyapply a set of rules to the data implies that we believe to a large extent in the regularityof sound change.
But the comparative method itself implies such an assumption.
Thisdoes not mean that we cannot also admit that "each word has its own history," whenwe take into account competing trends or influences on the languages.
This flexibilitytoward irregularity has been incorporated everywhere in the computing mechanism.One example of this flexible approach is evident in examining the table of corre-spondences.
Turning back to the table excerpt (Figure 9a), notice the presence of mul-tiple outcomes eparated by commas in the columns of modern outcomes (columns5-12).
These mean that we do not know yet what the regular outcome of a givenchange is.
Question marks are also allowed, in which case the program can (with theproper switch settings) borrow the outcomes from adjacent languages.
Neither of theseconventions should remain in the table of correspondences when the analysis of thegroup of languages i completed.
But, as a working tool, the table of correspondencestolerates them, and they do not hamper the functioning of RE.6.3 "Fuzzy" Matching in the Table of CorrespondencesWe can also reduce some of the specificity of the rules in the Table of Correspondencesin a controlled way in order to produce "allofam" sets or "irregular cognate" sets.16 Allofamy, the relationship between words in a word family, is described in more detail in Section 1,especially in the footnote to Figure 1.17 For example, English have and Latin hab~re.409Computational Linguistics Volume 20, Number 3TGTM X=A, BTGTM 8=k, k k, gTGTM 8R=kr, khr, grTGTM GL =kl, khl, glTGTM 8W =k-w, khw, qwTGTM 6a =kj,k h j,gj.
.
,TGTM P=p,pk ,bTGTM PR=pr ,  pkr ,  b rTGTM PL =p l ,  ph l ,  b lTGTM PW=pw, pkw, bwFigure 26A "Fuzzy file.
"These cognate sets are composed of reflexes that are irregular only by one or twofeatures pecified as parameters by the linguist.
This is accomplished using a "fuzzyfile" in which elements of the table of correspondences are conflated, allowing thelinguist to systematically relax distinctions between segments.
In Figure 26, distinctionsin tone and the mode of articulation at the proto-language level (symbolized by TGTM)are being ignored in order to concentrate on patterns of correspondences betweenrhymes and between initial points of articulation.The "fuzzy file," which states that TGTM proto tones A and ~ should be equatedto the "cover symbol" X, and that TGTM *k, *k h, and *g should be conflated into "6,a velar stop, unspecified for aspiration and voicing.
Similar conflations are stated for?
p, ,ph *b, and so on.The result of conflating certain segments i  to bring together certain reflexes thatwould otherwise not be included in cognate sets.
Figures 27a and 27b illustrate howthis procedure brings reflexes that are tonally irregular into the appropriate cognatesets for further study.
In Figure 27a, an "irregular correspondence" (that is, a lack ofa correspondence where one might be expected to exist) results in forms from Tukcheand Ghachok being left out of the cognate set.
With a "fuzzy" value for the tone(illustrated in part B of Figure 27a), the two aberrant forms fall into place.
In Figure27b, the features conflated are tone and voicing.6.4 Directions for Further Development: Phonological Research Using REWhen the table and canon are "complete," that is, when the linguist is satisfied withthe contents of the cognate sets and "residue" files created by RE, the table and canoncan themselves be subjected to further study.
The table, for example, is a compactstatement of the sound changes exemplified in the set of data being studied.
Indeed,these sound changes encode linguistic generalizations waiting to be teased out by thelinguist.6.4.1 Subgrouping and Typology.
The Table of Correspondences and Syllable Canoncontain a considerable amount of information about the relationships among the lan-guages.
Analysis of the table shows which languages hare features and innovations410Lowe and Mazaudon The Reconstruction EngineA.
Without "Fuzzy" Constituentsrecon ~gla:analysis 4.117.32.mar  ' i l j a  placepra 4khja placesahu  akla."
placesyang 41j a placetag 4khla: placeB.
With "Fuzzy" Constituentsrecon Xg la :analysis 4.117.32.analysis 3.116.32.mar  41ja placepra 4khja placesahu 4k la :  placesyang 41 j a placetag 4khla: placegha s i  o placetuk Sk j a placeFigure 27a*Agla: ,~*Sgla:.A.
Without "Fuzzy" Constituentsrecon Abapanalysis 3.136.46.mar  Sp o beer -mashpra Spe beer -mashris Spap beer-mashsyang ~po beer -mashB.
With "Fuzzy" Constituentsrecon XPapanalysis 3.136.46.analysis 2.135.46.mar  apopra 3peris ~papsyang 3pogha Zp a:beer -mashbeer -mashbeer -mashbeer -mashbeer-mashFigure 27b*Spap ,.,,Abap.and where they differ.
Such analysis could be useful to produce a more refined char-acterization of the genetic relationship among the languages.On one hand, the table could be analyzed to determine what traits the languageshave in common.
An example of this is shown in Figure 28.
Here the correspondenceshave been re-analyzed to show cases in which languages hare a common outcomeand cases in which they differ.
Where the outcome is the same, a '1' appears in thatlanguage's slot in column (2).
If all or most of the columns have a '1,' we conclude thatthis type of change is universal (within this language group).
Looking at the types ofchange that are universally shared, we further note that a generalization over a feature(in this case a devoicing rule) is possible.
Such a generalization is the result of twolevels of abstraction: bringing together all languages that have an outcome in common,and then comparing those outcomes at the level of phonological features.
We hopeto have the computer hunt through the table of correspondences attempting to makesuch generalizations.
This would require that the algorithm be able to analyze tableconstituents at the feature level and to characterize the changes in proto and modernfeature sets in some reasonable way.411Computational Linguistics Volume 20, Number 3(1) (2) (3) (4)Corr Languages: ProtoN ?
RSTTMSGP Se~rment Outromev(138) I I i i i i i0 *b > p(136) i i i i i i i i  *h > p(144) I i i i i i i0 *~ l > pl(143) i i i i i i i i  *b l  > pl(132) i i i i i i i0 *d > t(121) i i i i i i i i  *dz > ts(97) I i i i i i i i  *g > k~ g(5)EnvironmentB_ j , rABABAAetc ....Generalization: Cvd > CvlFigure 28Devoicing:An innovation common to all languages in the group.Co~ Languages: P ro~No.
RSTTMSGP SeQ~nent Outcome EnvironmentFinals Lost:(85)  oo?oll i?
* jup > ju(44) 00011111 *at > e, je,e:(46)  00001111 *ap > oFinals Preserved:(85) l i?0000?
* jup > jup(44) if000000 *at > Vt(46)  i i i00000 *ap > apFigure 29Innovations shared by subgroups.A similar process could be used to distinguish strata of linguistic development andstructural similarities within the group.
A pattern of innovation shared consistently bya subset of the languages but not by the rest may be evidence of close genetic rela-tionship, continued contact, or typological similarity arising from some other source.As Figure 29 illustrates, the languages on the left side of the table (Risiangku, Sahu,and perhaps Taglung) seem to preserve final consonants better than the rest of the lan-guages in the group.
It would be useful to be able to catalog sets of shared innovationsand provide an interpretation of them along genetic or other typological grounds.412Lowe and Mazaudon The Reconstruction E gineN Syll * Context ris sahu tag tuk mar syang gha pra46 R ap ap ap ap ~p,~u o o a: e94 I k */-w k ~ h k k k k k137 I b */B- p p p,b p p b b phFigure 30aThree Correspondence S ts from the Table of Correspondences.A close look at the examples hows some of the obstacles that any analysis (andespecially an automated one) must confront.
Some method for handling cases wheredata is missing or inconsistent in some "minor" way must be developed.
Should theassumption be that missing data supports a generalization, refutes it, or should itnot affect he interpretation at all?
It is unclear how to have the computer generalizeintelligently.6.4.2 On the Notions "Rule" and "Correspondence."
Elaboration of the relationshipbetween the protolanguage and each of the daughter languages implies an item-by-item comparison of modern reflexes with their ancestors.
A correspondence, in thestrictest sense, reflects only an observed or even hypothesized relationship betweenmodern constituents.
It need not embody a claim about the exact features of theancestor.When correspondence s ts are matched with a protosegment, as is the case inthe table used by RE, each correspondence set can be viewed as a set of simultaneousrules.
The three correspondence sets given in Figure 30a, for example, can be rewrittenas a number of "input-output" ype rules as expressed in Figure 30b.
Note that theseare not "rules" in the sense the word is used by generative linguists, where there isthe implication of some kind of process or "rewriting" of material.
One indication ofthis is that some of the rules in Figure 30b are of the form "X remains X" (see rules181, 366, and 505).
The status of such rules in a generative sense is suspect.
However,in RE, as shown below, such rules have quite concrete implications.Figure 31b illustrates what a "feature bundle" in RE looks like.
To create this rep-resentation, the linguist provides a list of features, and specifies the set of constituentsto which the feature applies (as exemplified in Figure 31a).The feature sets represent a statement of the significant distinctions ineach language;we note in passing that RE thus implements the notion that the phonemes of eachlanguage pattern in their own way, and that even though the same symbol may be usedto transcribe words in different languages, this does not necessarily indicate that theyshare features in common.
Consider the feature set for Risiangku exemplified in Figure32a.
/kh/ is also a constituent in this language, but it has a different analysis fromthat in 31b inasmuch as the voicing distinction (conjectured for the protolanguage) isnot distinctive.Now consider a rule (rewritten from the table of correspondences as in Figure 30b)like:(13) Rule 459.
*kl > kj /_ a (in Tukche and Prakaa)413Computational Linguistics Volume 20, Number 3RN (CN) Syll *TGTM > Outcome181(0046) R ap > ap182(0046) R ap > a :183(0046) R ap > .e184(0046) R ap > o185(0046) R ap > ep,eu36S(0094)  I k > h /_w366(0094)  I k > k / _w367(0094) I k > 0 /_w505(0137) I b > b /B_506(0137) I b > p /3_507(0137)  I \]) > p,b /3_508(0137) I b > ph /3_Context in Language(s)ris, sahu, tagghapramar~ S~a1%q%uktagris~tuk, mar~syangjgha,prasahus y a ng~ gharis,sahu,tuk, martagpraFigure 30bCorrespondences 46,94, and 137 expressed as rules.TGTM Unvo icedTGTM AspiratedTGTM VelarTGTM StopTGTM Cluster...etc= k,kh,~ ,t h,t s,t sh, t,th,p,ph,h~,hp,hn,hm,hj ,hr,hl,hw...= kh, th,t sh, th,ph,khr= k ,khg ,13 h~,k r ,kh,g r,k I ,khl ,g i ,k j ,khj ,g j ,kw,khw,gw= k,kh,g,t s,t sh,d z,~ ,~ h,~,t,th,d,p,ph,b= g r,g 1,g j ,gw,bl,b j ,ml,mj ,H1,Hrk r,k l,k j ,pl,p j ,phj...Figure 31aExcerpt from the *TGTM feature set.TGTM /Rh/ MODE(Aspirated)MODE(Unvoiced)MANNER(Stop)PLACE(Velar)Figure 31bFeature analysis of a *TGTM segment as a "feature bundle.
"Rewriting each side of the rule in terms of features, we get:(14) *kl = MANNER(Cluster) > *kj =MODE(Unvoiced)PLACE(Velar)PLACE(Lateral)MANNER(Cluster)MODE(Unvoiced)PLACE(Velar)PLACE(Palatal)414Lowe and Mazaudon The Reconstruction Engineris Clusterris Stopris Aspiratedris Unaspiratedris Velar= hl,hr,k j ,kr,khr,kl,kw,p j,phj,pr,pi,~ j ,mj,ml,mr= k,kh, ts,tsh,~,~h,t,thp,ph= kh, ~h t sh, th,ph,khr,phj= k,~ ,t s,t,p,k j ,k r,k l,kw,p j ,pl= k,kh,r3,k j ,kr,khr,kl,kwFigure 32a"Feature set" for Risiangku (excerpt).Risiangku /kh/ MODE(Aspirated)MANNER(Stop)PLACE(Velar)Figure 32b"Feature bundle" for a modern segment (note: voicing is not distinctive).Deleting 'like' features leaves a diachronic feature rule:(15) PLACE(Lateral) > PLACE(Palatal)This procedure demonstrates how rules expressed in terms of segments can beautomatically or perhaps emi-automatically converted into rules expressed in termsof features.
This aspect of the program is the subject of ongoing research.7.
ConclusionWhile both the program and the results of its first application are incomplete, someconclusions are warranted.
First, we have shown the validity of this approach byproducing reasonable, defensible, and well-defined cognate sets using the program.Second, a concrete understanding of semantics and of morphological nd phonologicalvariation at the proto level, both quite external to the core phonological functionsof the program and perhaps only available via the intuitions and experience of thelinguist, are required to interpret he initial results of upstream computations.
Finally,the combinatorial complexity of the reconstruction process and the potentially largelinguistic data sets that might be treated make the problems of performance and datareduction computationally challenging.
There is much room for work here applyingtechniques already developed in other areas of computational linguistics.We have occasionally been asked why we have not developed software that wouldcreate tables of correspondences based on universal or at least subgroup-wide phono-logical principles of analysis and comparison.
Such an algorithm has already beenproposed by Martin Kay (Kay 1964).
Our research as focused on evaluating existinghypotheses rather than the process of creating new ones.
There is indeed much workthat could be done here and we hope that the burgeoning interest in computationalhistorical inguistics will lead to the investigation of this question.Finally, we recognize that for these algorithms to be useful to other researchers inhistorical linguistics they must ultimately be implemented as part of a larger software415Computational Linguistics Volume 20, Number 3suite providing conventional (and standardized) atabase management functions andother computational linguistic tools; we have begun design of this software and invitecollaboration from interested specialists.AcknowledgmentsSome of this material is based upon workdone under the joint auspices of the CentreNational de la Recherche Scientifique(CNRS), Paris, through its Laboratoire desLangues et Civilisations a Tradition Orale(LACITO) and the Sino-TibetanEtymological Dictionary and Thesaurus(STEDT) Project, supported by the NationalScience Foundation under Grant Nos.BNS-867726 and FD-92-09841 and by theDivision of Research Programs of theNational Endowment for the Humanities,an independent federal agency, under GrantNos.
RT-20789-87 and RT-21420.We would like to thank Dan Jurafsky, JimMatisoff, Boyd Michailovsky, and the threereviewers for their insightful comments.Any errors or omissions that remain arecompletely our responsibility.ReferencesBaldi, Philip (ed.)
(1990).
Linguistic Changeand Reconstruction Methodology.
Trends inLinguistics: Studies and Monographs 45.Mouton de Gruyter.Becker, D. A.
(1982).
"Teaching Lautgesetzein the computer age."
Yearbook of theSeminar for Germanic Philology, 5, 8-37.Brandon, Frank R. (1984).
"A phonologicalrule interpreter for microcomputers.
"Computers in Literary and LinguisticsComputing, edited by J. Hamesse andA.
Zampolli, 47-62.
Universit6 Catholiquede Louvain.Burton-Hunter, Sarah K. (1976).
"Romanceetymology: A computerized model.
"Computers and the Humanities, 10, 217-220.Charni/~k, Eugene, and McDermott, Drew(1985).
Artificial Intelligence.Addison-Wesley.Cheng, Chin-Chuan (1993).
"DOC: Its birthand life."
In Linguistic Essays in honor ofWilliam S-Y Wang.
Matthew Chen andOvid Tzeng (eds).
(forthcoming).Durham, Stanton P., and Rogers, David Ellis(1971).
"An application of computerprogramming to the reconstruction f aproto-language."
ITL Tijdschrift voorToegepeste Linguistiek, 5, 70-81.Eastlack, Charles L. (1977).
"Iberochange: Aprogram to simulate systematic soundchange in Ibero-Romance."
Computers andthe Humanities, 11, 81-8.Frantz, Donald G. (1970).
"A PL/1 programto assist he comparative linguist.
"Communications of the ACM, 13, 353-356,Hartman, Steven Lee (1981).
"A universalalphabet for experiments in comparativephonology."
Computers and the Humanities,15, 75-82.Hartman, Steven Lee (1993).
"Writing rulesfor a computer model of sound change.
"Southern Illinois Working Papers inLinguistics and Language Teaching, 2, 31-39.Hewson, John (1973).
"Reconstructingprehistoric languages on the computer:The triumph of the electronicneogrammarian."
In Proceedings oftheInternational Conference on ComputationalLinguistics, edited by A. Zampolli andN.
Calzolari.
Pisa: Leo S. Olschki.Hewson, John (1974).
"Comparativereconstruction the computer."
InProceedings, First International Conference onHistorical Linguistics, edited byJ.
M. Anderson and C. Jones.
NorthHolland.Hewson, John (1989).
"Computer-aidedresearch in comparative and historicallinguistics."
Computational Linguistics,edited by I. S. Batori, W. Lenders, andW.
Putschke, 576-580.
Walter de Gruyter.Hewson, John (1993).
A Computer-GeneratedDictionary of Proto-Algonquian.
MercurySeries 125, (Canadian Ethnology Service).Canadian Museum of Civilization.Hoenigswald, Henry M. (1950).
"Theprincipal step in comparative grammar.
"Language, 26, 357-64.Hoenigswald, Henry M. (1960).
LanguageChange and Linguistic Reconstruction.University of Chicago Press.Kay, Martin (1964).
The logic of cognaterecognition i historical linguistics.
Researchmemorandum RM-4224-PR.
SantaMonica, California, The RandCorporation.Kemp, Kenneth W. (1976).
"Personalobservations on the use of statisticalmethods in quantitative linguistics."
TheComputer in Literary and Linguistic Studies(Proceeding, Third International Symposium),edited by A. Jones and R. E Churchhouse,59-77.
University of Wales Press.Kiparsky, Paul (1973).
"Elsewhere inphonology."
In A Festschrift or MorrisHalle, edited by Stephen R. Anderson andPaul Kiparsky, 93-106.
Rinehart andWinston.Kiparsky, Paul (1982).
Explanation in416Lowe and Mazaudon The Reconstruction EnginePhonology.
Foris Publications.
Publicationsin Language Series.Lowe, John B., and Mazaudon, Martine(1989).
"Computerized tools forreconstruction i  Tibeto-Burman."
InProceedings, Annual Meeting of the BerkeleyLinguistics Society, 15, 367-378.Lowe, John B., and Mazaudon, Martine(1990).
"Phonological change in theTamang languages of Nepal: Problemsand prospects of a computerized study.
"Paper presented at the 23rd Conference onSino-Tibetan Languages and Linguistics.Arlington, Texas.Matisoff, James A.
(1978).
VariationalSemantics in Tibeto-Burman: The OrganicApproach to Linguistic Comparison.Philadelphia: Institute for the Study ofHuman Issues.Matisoff, James A.
(1992).
"Following themarrow: Two parallel Sino-Tibetanetymologies."
Linguistics of theTibeto-Burman Area, 15(1), 159-177.Mazaudon, Martine (1978).
"Consonantalmutation and tonal split in the Tamangsub-family of Tibeto-Burman."
Kailash(Kathmandu), 6(3), 157-180.Mazaudon, Martine (1988).
"The influenceof tone and affrication on manner: Someirregular manner correspondences in theTamang group."
Paper presented at the22nd Conference on Sino-Tibetan Languagesand Linguistics.
Lund.Mazaudon, Martine, and Lowe, John B.(1991).
"Du bon usage de l'informatiqueen linguistique historique."
Bulletin de laSoci~td de Linguistique de Paris, 86(1), 49-87.Meillet, Antoine (1966).
The ComparativeMethod in Historical Linguistics, translatedby Gordon B. Ford, Jr. Librairie Honor6Champion.Miller, G. A.
(1990), ed.
"Wordnet: anon-line lexical database."
InternationalJournal of Lexicography 3(4).Ralston, Anthony, and Reilly, Edwin D.(1993).
Encyclopedia of Computer Science, 3rdedition.
Van Nostrand Reinhold.Shafer, Robert (1955).
"Classification of theSino-Tibetan languages."
Word, 11, 94-111.Swadesh, Morris (1950).
"Salish internalrelationships."
International Journal ofAmerican Linguistics, 16, 157-167.Watkins, Calvert (1989).
"New parametersin historical linguistics, philology, andculture history."
Language, 65(4), 783-799.Wang, William S.-Y.
(1970).
"Project DOC:Its methodological basis."
Journal of theAmerican Oriental Society, 90(1), 57-66.Wimbish, John S. (1989).
WORDSURV: AProgram for Analyzing Language SurveyWord Lists.
Dallas, Summer Institute ofLinguistics, Occasional publications inacademic omputing.
Academic BookCenter, 7500 West Camp Wisdom Road,Dallas, TX 75236.417
