Commentary  on Dae lemans ,  Gil l is,  and Dur ieuxJonathan Kaye 1(School of Oriental and African Studies)The authors turn an Instance-Based Learning model (IBL) loose on some Dutch stressdata.
They come to a number of conclusions regarding the models that could underliehuman stress acquisition, to wit, "...  tree building operations proposed in learning the-ories for metrical phonology are not necessary for learning stress assignment" (p. 449)One assumes that this conclusion carries over to grid building as well.
A secondconclusion is that "...  phonemic representations yield significantly better results \[inlearning Dutch irregular stress/JK\] than the encoding in terms of syllable weights"(p. 449) In my opinion, the authors have failed to justify either conclusion.Their work involves modeling the acquisition of Dutch stress.
Specifically, thelearning task is to assign Dutch input words to one of three categories: PEN, FIN, orANT.
Since systems very different from the Dutch one exist, the requirements of learn-ing systems based exclusively on it can be carried over to the more general problemof human stress acquisition.
Crucially, the authors do not consider the assignment ofsecondary stress or any of the other types of stress ystems attested in the literature.The authors consider three methods of encoding input forms: (1) syllable weights,(2) the "phonemes" of the rhyme projection, (3) a plain "phonemic" transcription ofthe word.
The authors test these three methods with respect to Dutch stress placement.Research on human stress ystems has failed to turn up examples where the segmentalcontent of a form is relevant to general patterns of stress assignment.
Statements of theform, "assign stress to the final nucleus unless it contains "i" in which case assign stressto the penultimate nucleus" are unattested.
Accordingly, the conclusion of Daelemanset al that "...  the phonemic representations yield significantly better esults than theencoding in terms of syllable weights" (p. 449) is surprising.
Daelemans et al notethat for regular stress assignment (i.e.
stress assignment based on syllable weight) thefirst encoding is the most successful.
Encodings 2 and 3 only come into their ownwith respect o lexical exceptions.
The authors fail to distinguish two very differentoperations: (1) the assignment of stress based on phonological structure and (2) theidentification of lexical exceptions.
While segmental content is irrelevant for the firsttask, it is essential for the second.
It is clear that segmental material is required forthe assignment of arbitrary marks (\[-ex\], LF, etc.)
because we must know to whichlexical items these diacritical marks are assigned.
What emerges from the discussionis that the irrelevance of segmental material to stress assignment is supported by thecurrent study.
Indeed, there are many examples of stress systems where 100% of thelexical items belong to the "R" (regular) class.
I know of no stress systems that areentirely based on patterns requiring "phonemic" information.In conclusion, the restricted nature of the model deprives the theoretical c aims ofmuch of their relevance.
Failure to distinguish stress assignment based on constituentstructure vs. stress assignment as a property of certain lexical items attenuates theauthors' claims about he relevance of the encoding methods.
I believe we can remainsecure in the belief that segmental material is irrelevant to stress assignment.1 Department of Linguistics, School of Oriental nd African Studies, Thornhaugh Street, Russell Square,London WCIH 0XG, U.K.453
