Commentary on Bird and KleinJohn Coleman 1(Oxford University)Bird and Klein show us how various phonological constructs--feature g ometry, theprosodic hierarchy, well-formedness constraints on strings of segments, templatic/auto-segmental phonology, morphology-phonology interactions, and vowel-zero alterna-t ions-may be treated in a rigorous fashion using the the formal resources of HPSG.
Tothe incautious critic (or the skeptical phonologist) it may seem that they have given usmerely a new notation in which to express conventional phonological analyses, suchas Tranel's analysis of French schwa epenthesis or Goldsmith's textbook examples ofSierra Miwok.A central principle of Bird and Klein's approach that takes it beyond notation isPhonological Compositionality and the related concept of monotonicity, mentionedalmost in passing in Section 3.3.
Among the consequences of monotonicity are: (1) fea-ture values may not be altered; (2) segments or other structural material may not beremoved (i.e.
delinking and restructuring, such as resyllabification, are prohibited);and (3) constraints are not extrinsically ordered; in fact, extrinsic rule ordering is in-expressible.An accommodation with orthodox generative phonology with regard to (1) maybe found by employing underspecification, translating feature-changing rules intofeature-filling constraints.
Objections to extrinsic ordering have been raised at varioustimes before, and many phonologists would like to be rid of it, so Bird and Klein'sproposals regarding (3) are welcome.
Many phonologists find (2) very unpalatable,however, despite the fact that Bird and Klein's example of French schwa insertion isalso potentially applicable to some putative cases of deletion.
A deletion rule opera-tive in Welsh mutation, which removes /g /  from the lexical representation f garddin some environments, but leaves it present in the citation form, could be treated inHPSG phonology as consonant-zero alternation on a par with French schwa.
This al-ternation is only treated as deletion because it is the noncitation form that lacks theinitial consonant.Other apparent cases of deletion are more awkward for declarative approaches.In English trisyllabic shortening (e.g.
profane --* profanity) and -ic shortening (e.g.
t6net6nicity), orthodox analysis deletes a vowel slot and association lines incident toit.
To treat these as instances of vowel-zero alternation would appear to require therepresentation f the stem to be sensitive to the presence of a very particular set ofsuffixes (-ic, -ity, etc.).
HPSG phonology might either analyze these using differentCV templates, like Sierra Miwok allomorphy, or reject the bisegmental analysis ofphonological length, by treating shortening as the addition of a "shortness" feature(e.g.
trisyllabic-shortening(V) --* I-long\]).
I do not expect either of these proposals tobe popular.
In any case, reconstructing morphophonological rules such as the abovein declarative style will not satisfy some critics, for whom any suggestion of language-specific rules is anathema.ReferencesHalle, M., and Mohanan, K. P.
(1985).
"Segmental phonology of modernEnglish."
Linguistic Inquiry 16(1), 57-116.1 Oxford University Phonetics Laboratory, 41 Wellington Square, Oxford OX1 2JF, U.K.492
