Tracking Point of View in NarrativeJanyce  M. Wiebe*New Mexico State UniversityThird-person fictional narrative text is composed not only of passages that objectively narrateevents, but also of passages that present characters" thoughts, perceptions, and inner states.Such passages take a character's psychological point of view.
A language understandermust determine the current psychological point of view in order to distinguish the beliefs of thecharacters from the facts of the story, to correctly attribute beliefs and other attitudes to theirsources, and to understand the discourse relations among sentences.
Tracking the psychologicalpoint of view is not a trivial problem, because many sentences are not explicitly marked for pointof view, and whether the point of view of a sentence is objective or that of a character (and if thelatter, which character it is) often depends on the context in which the sentence appears.
Trackingthe psychological point of view is the problem addressed in this work.
The approach is to seek, byextensive xaminations ofnaturally occurring narrative, regularities in the ways that authorsmanipulate point of view, and to develop an algorithm that tracks point of view on the basis of theregularities found.
This paper presents this algorithm, gives demonstrations of an implementedsystem, and describes the results of some preliminary empirical studies, which lend support othe algorithm.1.
IntroductionImagine that a language understander ncounters the following passage while readinga novel:(1)HHe \[Sandy\] wanted to talk to Dennys.
1'2How were they going tobe able to get home from this strange desert land into which they hadbeen cast and which was heaven knew where in all the countless olarsystems in all the countless galaxies?
\[UEngle, Many Waters, p. 91\]In this passage, the author is not objectively narrating events or describing the fictionalworld, but is presenting the thoughts and emotions of a character.
It is to Sandy thatthe land is strange, and it is Sandy's uncertainty that is expressed by the question andthe expression 'heaven knew where.'
Unless the language understander realizes thesethings, it hasn't fully understood the passage.Passages uch as (1) take a character's psychological point of view and are com-posed of subjective sentences--sentences that present he thoughts, perceptions, andinner states of characters in the story.
Notice that nothing in (1.2) explicitly specifiesthat the sentence is Sandy's thought.
In general, only a narrative parenthetical, suchas 'Dennys thought' in (2), serves to explicitly indicate both that a sentence is subjectiveand who its subjective character is.
* Department of Computer Science, New Mexico State University, Box 30001/Dept.
CS, Las Cruces, NM88003-0001.
E-mail: wiebe@nmsu.edu.
(~) 1994 Association for Computational LinguisticsComputational Linguistics Volume 20, Number 2(2)Certainly, Dennys thought, anything would be better than this horrible-smelling place full of horrible little people.
\[UEngle, Many Waters, p.25\]In all other cases, one must rely on less direct sources of information to determine thepsychological point of view.This paper presents an algorithm for recognizing subjective sentences and identi-fying their subjective characters in third-person fictional narrative text.
The algorithmis based on regularities, found by extensive xamination of naturally occurring text(i.e., published novels and short stories) in the ways that authors manipulate point ofview.
It has been implemented, and some preliminary empirical studies, which lendsupport o the algorithm, have also been performed.The algorithm is described in the body of the paper and is given in full in Ap-pendix A.
Sections 2-5 give background information and describe my approach to theproblem.
Sections 6 and 7 present an overview of the algorithm, specifying the inputand output of the basic components and identifying the components focused on in thiswork.
Sections 8-10 present the bulk of the algorithm, addressing the problem of iden-tifying subjective characters before the problem of recognizing subjective sentences.Section 11 describes the algorithm's treatment of sentences about private-state actions,such as sighing and looking.
Sections 12-14 conclude the paper with a summary oftests of the algorithm and discussions of the relationship between tracking point ofview and anaphora resolution and of directions for future research.
The algorithm isgiven in Appendix A, demonstrations of its implementation are given in Appendix B,and the results of a test of the algorithm are given in Appendix C.2.
Point of View2.1 IntroductionIn face-to-face conversation, an utterance is understood with respect to the situation inwhich the conversation takes place (Barwise and Perry 1983).
Thus, deictic expressionssuch as 'now,' 'here,' come,' go,' and 'just ahead' derive their meanings from thetime and place of the utterance (Fillmore 1975; Lyons 1977).
In fictional narrative text,however, spatial and temporal deictic terms are clearly not understood with respect tothe time and place of the author's writing nor of the reader's reading.
Rather, they areunderstood with respect o a "here" and "now" within the story (Hamburger 1973;Kuroda 1976; Banfield 1982; Bruder et al 1986; Rapaport et al 1989a, 1989b).
Thus,the reader must track the spatial and temporal points of view with respect o whichobjects and events are described (Uspensky 1973).Knowing who the speaker is another situational component eeded to understandconversation.
Most obviously, the speaker is needed as the referent of first-person pro-nouns, but in addition she is the source of beliefs, emotions, evaluations, etc., expressedby her utterances.
But in third-person arrative text, sentences can express a charac-ter's beliefs, emotions, etc., even when he or she is referred to in the third person.Thus, an additional deictic component, corresponding to the speaker in conversation,is needed to understand third-person narrative: the psychological point of view (Us-pensky 1973).Although Various points of view often 'coincide in third-person narrative text, theyneed not.
For example, a passage may take a character's spatial and temporal pointsof view without taking the psychological point of view of any character (Uspensky1973).
It is the psychological point of view we are concerned with in this paper.234Janyce M. Wiebe Tracking Point of View in Narrative2.2 Subjective SentencesFollowing Ann Banfield (1982), a literary theorist who analyzes point of view lin-guistically, we shall call sentences that take a character's psychological point of view(hereafter, simply point of view or POV) subjective, in contrast o sentences that ob-jectively narrate events or describe the fictional world.
Subjective sentences presentprivate states of characters--states of an experiencer holding an attitude, optionallytoward an object.
Varieties of private states include intellectual ones, such as someonebelieving, wondering, or knowing something; emotive ones, such as someone hatingsomething or being afraid; and perceptual ones, such as someone seeing or hearingsomething.
Thus, private states are states that are not open to objective observationor verification (Quirk et al 1985).
To refer to a private state p and its components, weshall write:PS (p, experiencer, attitude, object)where experiencer is the person in state p, and attitude is know, believe, see, or whateversort of private state p is.
Notice that "attitude" is being used as a general coveringterm, referring to a class of which the propositional attitudes are only a subclass.We shall limit our scope in this paper mainly to two classes of subjective sen-tences, one containing those Banfield calls "represented thoughts" and "representedperceptions," and the other containing those I call "private-state r ports."
We will notconsider epresented speech at all (Jespersen 1924; Banfield 1982), because of its com-plexity, and only toward the end of the paper (Section 11) will we consider a variantof private-state r ports: subjective sentences about private-state actions.Even restricting one's attention to the two classes mentioned above, there are manysyntactic, semantic, and pragmatic features according to which one could characterizesubjective sentences.
Below I propose a view of subjective sentences that is usefulfor the specific purpose of tracking POV.
For characterizations that include furtherand alternative distinctions, see, for example, the following works in literary theoryand linguistics: Dole~el 1973; Uspensky 1973; Fillmore 1974; Cohn 1978; Banfield 1982;Caenepeel 1989; Galbraith 1990; Li 1991.A private state is part of the meaning of any kind of subjective sentence.
However,a represented thought or represented perception without a narrative parentheticalexplicitly mentions only the object of the private state; the attitude and experiencer areimplicit.
On the other hand, a private-state r port explicitly mentions the experiencer,the attitude, and, optionally, the object of a private state p; in addition, with the private-state report, p is not the object of some other private state with an implicit experiencerand attitude.
Consider the following sentences:3.1 Zoe was angry at Joe.
3.2 Where was he?Sentence (3.2) is a represented thought.
It mentions the object of a private state p whoseexperiencer, Zoe, and attitude, wonder or a similar attitude, are implicit:"Where was he?
"ps(p, experiencer, attitude, object)235Computational Linguistics Volume 20, Number 2Sentence (3.1) mentions the experiencer, attitude, and object of a private state Pl:" Zoe was angry at Joe.
"PS(pl, experiencer 1, attitude1, object1)Under a private-state r port interpretation f (3.1), Pl is not itself the object of someother private state.We shall call the character whose psychological point of view is taken by a sub-jective sentence the subjective character (SC) of that sentence.
The SC is the subjectof a narrative parenthetical, when one is present; the implicit experiencer, when thesentence is a represented thought or represented perception without a narrative par-enthetical; and the explicit experiencer, when the sentence is a private-state r port.In addition to private-state rms uch as 'know' and 'see,' subjective sentences cancontain subjective lements, linguistic elements that express attitudes of the SC (thisaspect of subjective sentences i noted in many studies of POV; the term "subjectiveelement" isattributable toBanfield 1982).
An example appears in the following passage(throughout this paper, sentences incited passages are indented to reflect paragraphingin the original texts).
(4)4.1,What are you doing in here?"
42Suddenly she \[Zoe\] was furiouswith him \[Joe\].4"3"Spying, of course.
"4"4"Well of all dumb things!
4'5I thought you ran away."
46joeBunch was awful.
\[Oneal, War Work, p. 130\]The adjective "awful" in (4.6) is a subjective lement, expressing Zoe's evaluation of Joe(that he is awful).
Notice that (4.6) is a represented thought--Zoe thought is implicit--and (4.2) is a private-state r port, reporting Zoe's private state of being furious withJoe.As will be specified shortly in Section 6, the output of the algorithm is the POVof a sentence, not a representation f its meaning.
One interesting issue not addressedin this paper is how one might represent the difference between, for example, "Johnwondered where he was" and " 'Where was he?'
John wondered.
"But one distinction that is crucial for tracking POV is the distinction between theinterpretation f a sentence as either objective or subjective, and the kinds of states ofaffairs that the sentence is about.
The former is a pragmatic issue, concerning the useof a sentence to present objective or subjective information about the fictional world(Kuroda 1976).
The latter is a semantic issue, concerning the word senses of lexicalitems in the sentence.
For instance, (5) below can be used to objectively narrate a pastaction or to portray a character's thought of one.
In either case, the sentence is aboutan action.
(5) Gus had taken them back to town.Now consider (6):(6) Gus had a cornish hen.Whether the word sense of 'had' in (6) is a state or an action (eating) is a separatequestion from whether the sentence is objective or subjective (similarly, Hirst \[1987\]236Janyce M. Wiebe Tracking Point of View in Narrativesuggests that lexical ambiguity is orthogonal to speech act ambiguity in conversation).As specified in Secti6n 6.1, the type of state of affairs that each clause is about is partof the input to the algorithm.In addition to being objective or a character's subjective sentence, a sentence mayexpress the attitudes of an overt narrator (Chatman 1978).
But this paper will focusonly on texts without overt narrators.
In addition, we will not consider passages withirony and humor that do not originate with a character, or passages that are writtenin the style of an epic, parable, or folktale.
As well, we will not try to account forfiction that is experimental in its manipulation of POV.
Finally, we will only considernarrative sentences in which the tenses are "shifted" (Jespersen 1924); that is, in whichthe simple past is used for the narrative present, and the past perfective is used forthe narrative past.
Note that it is not difficult to find published third-person texts thatsatisfy these criteria.3.
Importance of Tracking Point of ViewThe importance to narrative understanding of recognizing characters' intentions haslong been recognized in AI (see, for example, Wilensky \[1983\] and Dyer \[1983\]).
Toperform plan recognition, the reader must, among other things, realize when charac-ter's intentions are being communicated; this may involve realizing that a particularsentence is subjective rather than objective.
In (7), a represented thought communicatesa character's intentions:(7)71He \[Jeff\] could see her walking the other way.
72If he wanted toavoid notice, he would have to act with the same deliberate manner asall the robots around him.
7'3He lengthened his stride and gave chasewithout otherwise altering his body language.
\[Wu, Cyborg, p. 71\]Sentence (7.2) is not a purely narrative sentence informing the reader that if Jeff wantsto avoid notice, he must change the way he is walking.
Rather, (7.2) is Jeff's thoughtexpressing his goal to avoid notice, and also his belief about how to achieve it.
Un-derstanding this is necessary for the reader to perceive the intentionality behind theaction described in (7.3).In addition to being important for plan recognition, tracking POV is necessary todistinguish what is true in the fictional world from what is believed by the characters.While objective sentences are unquestionably true in the fictional world, subjectivesentences reflect he subjective character'S beliefs, which may be false in the fictionalworld (Uspensky 1973; Kuroda 1976; Cohn 1978; Banfield 1982).
A striking exampleis the following:(8) This was David's boy.
\[Bridgers, All Together Now, p. 91\]Sentence (8) is actually about a female character named "Casey."
However, it is therepresented thought of a character who believes that Casey is a boy, and reflects thisfalse belief about her.Beliefs and intentions are just two of many types of attitudes communicated bysubjective sentences ( ee Dyer \[1983\] for a processing model of how various attitudescan be related to goals).
The algorithm for tracking POV presented in this paper isintended to be just one part of an overall narrative-understanding system.
Identifyingwhich attitudes are being presented and incorporating them into a representation f237Computational Linguistics Volume 20, Number 2the meaning of the text is beyond the scope of this work.
But to accomplish such tasks,the system must recognize when attitudes are being presented in the first place andidentify the character whose attitudes they are; these are the tasks involved in trackingthe psychological POV.POV also has important implications for discourse processing.
Discussion of thistopic is deferred until Section 14.Sentences that present 1 the attitudes of someone who is not the writer appear ingenres other than third-person fictional narrative text, such as newspaper articles andtextbooks (Banfield 1982), even if we might prefer another term than "representedthought" for such sentences.
Thus, the problem of tracking POV arises for these othergenres as well.
Following is a passage from The New York Times (1990) that contains a"represented thought":Looking at the more severely affected countries, experts are wonderingwhere the saturation point will be.
Where will the infection rate leveloff as most of those engaging in riskier behavior fall prey: 30 percent?40 percent?The second sentence presents omething that the experts are wondering; 30 and 40percent are the experts' guesses, not those of the writer.Third-person fictional narrative text is the focus of this work primarily because itcontains o many prototypical instances of sentences that present attitudes of someonewho is not the writer.
Further, by restricting the types of texts considered (see Sec-tion 2.2 above), it is possible to constrain the problem to choosing among an objectivePOV and the points of view of the characters.
In genres uch as soft news and editori-als, for example, the writer may present his or her own attitudes; when attitudes of thewriter, the speaker, or a narrator may be presented, the problem is less constrained.Hamburger (1973), Kuroda (1973), Banfield (1982), Galbraith (1990), and Wiebe (1991)address this issue more fully.
Finally, there is a great deal of previous work to buildupon, in linguistics and especially literary theory, investigating POV in novels andshort stories.4.
ApproachReasoning about whether a sentence is objective or the subjective sentence of this orthat character is certainly part of tracking POV (Fillmore 1974).
But it is reasonable tohypothesize that, in the face of all of the inferential possibilities, discourse xpectationstoo are involved in tracking POV; that is, in the absence of an explicit indication ofPOV, readers are intended to assume that POV is being manipulated in one of theusual ways, and to try to interpret the sentence accordingly.
(Similar suggestions havebeen made by Carberry \[1989\] with respect o resolving intersentential el ipsis and bySidner \[1983\] with respect o pronoun resolution.)
We can view the text as composedof maximal blocks of objective sentences (objective contexts) and maximal blocks ofsubjective sentences that have the same subjective character (subjective contexts).
Fur-1 My wording in this paper often attributes agency to sentences.
I might say, for example, that a sentencestates omething, communicates something, initiates anew POV, or refers to someone.
Sidner (1983)and Webber (1983) object specifically tousing a noun phrase as the agent of the verb 'refer,' since it isthe writer who is doing the referring, not the noun phrase.
I do not disagree---my wording is forconvenience only.238Janyce M. Wiebe Tracking Point of View in Narrativether, we can view the process of tracking POV as recognizing the following discourseoperations:...Sentence s continues the current POV: s and the previous entence areeither both objective or both subjective sentences of the same character.Sentence s resumes y's POV: s is a subjective sentence of y and ispreceded by an objective context, which is in turn preceded by asubjective context of the same character y.Sentence s init iates y's POV: s is a subjective sentence of y and either s isthe first subjective sentence of a scene, or the SC of the previoussubjective sentence is a different character z.The approach taken in this work is to seek, by extensive xamination of naturally oc-curring narratives, regularities in the ways that authors initiate, resume, and continuea character's point of view, and to develop an algorithm that tracks point of viewon the basis of the regularities found.
Given certain combinations of sentence features(e.g., tense, aspect, lexical items that potentially express ubjectivity, the types of statesof affairs that the sentence is about, and the identities of the actors or experiencers ofthose states of affairs), and of the current context (e.g., whether the previous entencewas subjective or objective, whether a paragraph break separates the current and pre-vious sentences, and the identity of the SC of the previous ubjective sentence, if therewas one), particular point-of-view operations can be expected.
A simple example: asentence that (1) is about an action, (2) is in the past progressive, and (3) follows,without a paragraph break, the subjective sentence of a character c, usually continuesc's POV.The examination of texts mentioned above was not a formal empirical investi-gation, so the algorithm should be viewed as a hypothesis that can be subjected tosuch tests.
However, I examined passages from over forty novels and short storiesto identify the regularities upon which the algorithm is based, and strictly adheredto the practice of considering only naturally occurring examples in developing thealgorithm.
Further, some preliminary empirical tests of the algorithm have been per-formed (see Section 12), among them psychological experiments of specific aspects ofthe algorithm.
The results of these experiments are positive.
I describe them as "pre-liminary" so as not to suggest hat the entire algorithm has already been subjected topsychological experimentation.5.
Previous WorkThere are literary theorists and linguists who investigate linguistic aspects of sub-jective sentences.
The present work greatly benefited from their investigations, mostdirectly from Dole~el (1973), Uspensky (1973), Kuroda (1973, 1976), Fillmore (1974),Cohn (1978), and especially Banfield (1982).
However, the relevant work in the abovefields is descriptive only; it describes characteristics of subjective sentences, but doesnot address the problem of tracking POV.
An exception is work on POV and aspectthat shows that aspect is only a context-sensitive marker of subjectivity (Ehrlich \[1987,1990\] and Caenepeel \[1989\]; see Section 9).In AI, Nakhimovsky (1988) suggests a discourse-processing approach to trackingPOV, but does not develop it in any depth.
Also, Reiser (1981) simply suggests thatPOV may be established by syntactic lues, and by including "more episodes andinternal information" about a character (p. 209).239Computational Linguistics Volume 20, Number 2con text ~ l{ }, { }, { }, presubjective-nonactive /loopif ~SENTENCE(ITEM( text, i) ) thencontext ~- NEW-CONTEXT' (ITEM(text, i), context)elseinterpretation ~ POV (FEATURES(ITEM( text, i) ),context)context ~ NEw-CONTEXT(interpretation, context)end ifi~ i+ lend loopn ~e.nl~ce ~ N /Figure 1Overview.A great deal of work in AI has involved inferring speaker and hearer attitudes inconversation (such as work in plan recognition in conversation--see, e.g., Allen andPerrault \[1980\]; in user modeling--see, .g., the papers in the special issue of Computa-tional Linguistics on user modeling 1988; and in dynamically constructing nested-beliefenvironments during understanding--see, .g., Wilks and Bien \[1983\]) and character'sattitudes in stories (see, e.g., Wilensky \[1983\] and Dyer \[1983\]).
Such beliefs might beabout what agents who are mentioned in the discourse believe, but the question is notaddressed as to whether an utterance itself presents what is actually the object of anagent's attitude, where that agent is not mentioned in the sentence.In summary, there is no previous detailed investigation of the problem of trackingthe psychological POV.6.
Overview of the AlgorithmThe algorithm will be developed in detail in subsequent sections.
This section providesan overview, giving the input and output of the basic components.
While this involvesusing some terms before they are defined, it will provide the reader with a frameworkin which to understand the material that follows.
As well, it will enable me to clarifythe focus of the work and to state exactly what has been implemented.Figure I gives the algorithm at the highest level and a corresponding flow-diagram.Of the functions hown in Figure 1, it is functions POV, NEW-CONTEXT, and NEW-CON--240Janyce M. Wiebe Tracking Point of View in NarrativeTEXT' that are addressed in this work.
Functions ITEM and FEATURES, preprocessingfunctions, represent a subset of the other tasks performed by an overall NLU system.The remainder of this section gives the input/output mappings of all five functions.6.1 The Preprocessing Functions?
Function ITEM maps the text and the current position in the text into the input itemat that position, i.e., the paragraph break, scene break (see Section 8.2.1), or sentence(see Section 6.3.2) that is at the current position:ITEM : Text x Position --+ Inputltem.This function is not implemented in the system, so a facility is provided that enablesthe user to input the current input item.?
Function FEATURES maps a sentence (see Section 6.3.2) into a set of features:FEATURES : Sentence ~ FeatureSet.A FeatureSet consists of the following (some of the features will be expanded upon inlater sections, as indicated; for extensive detail, see Wiebe \[1990\]):...The potential subjective elements in the sentence, if any.
The potentialsubjective lements form a large class that includes lexical items usedwith particular meanings, tense, aspect, and certain syntactic properties(see Section 9.2).The type of state of affairs that each clause is about.
For example, themain clause of the following is about a private state and thesubordinated clause is about an action:John wondered whether Mary opened the door.Note that each of the following is about a private state:Mary was afraid of the dark.The darkness made Mary afraid.Wiebe (1990) gives a list of private-state rms, noting which syntacticroles the experiencer fills in various clause structures (this material isdrawn from Quirk et al \[1985\]).
Section 6.3.1 gives the categorization ofstates of affairs used in this work.An indication of whether or not the head noun of the subject of the mainclause is a private-state noun (e.g., 'pain' and 'astonishment') and, if it is,the state of affairs that that noun is about.
Examples of sentences withsuch private-state nouns are:(10) The feeling went away.
(11) The pain increased.
(12) His astonishment grew.4.
The experiencers and actors (i.e., particular case fillers \[Fillmore 1968\]) ofthe states of affairs of items (2) and (3).
Because a single action mighthave more than one actor, and a single state might have more than oneexperiencer, each of these is a set.
If an experiencer or actor is notmentioned in the sentence (as is the case for the subject nouns in (10)and (11)), then that experiencer or actor is the empty set.241Computational Linguistics Volume 20, Number 2..An indication of whether or not the sentence contains a narrativeparenthetical, and, if it does, the identity (or identities) of theindividual(s) referred to by the subject of the parenthetical.Some other syntactic information ot included above.Function FEATURES involves the resolution of syntactic, semantic, and discourse/prag-matic ambiguities that are outside the scope of this work (see Section 14 for a dis-cussion of interactions between point of view and discourse processing).
While theimplemented system demonstrated in Appendix B takes actual sentences as input, itdoes not truly implement FEATURES, but is successful in computing the FeatureSet ofa sentence only for sentences that fall within its limited coverage.
There is anotherversion of the system that queries the user for the information returned by functionFEATURES, to enable the algorithm to be tested on unlimited text, without concernfor problems not addressed in this work.
It is this system that is used in the test ofthe algorithm presented in Appendix C and to support he psychological experimentsmentioned in Sections 8.3.1, 9.3, and 12.6.2 The Central Functions?
Function POV, which is implemented, maps a FeatureSet and a Context into an Inter-pretation:POV : FeatureSet x Context ~ Interpretation.A Context and an Interpretation are as follows.
A Context consists of (1) the identity ofthe SC of the last subjective sentence that appeared in the text, if there was one, (2) theidentity of the last active character (defined in Section 8.2.2), if there was one, (3) theidentities of any characters whose points of view were taken earlier in the text, and(4) the current ext situation (defined just below in Section 6.3.4):Context = {LastSC,LastActiveCharacter,PreviousSCs,TextS ituation )An Interpretation is either that the sentence is the subjective sentence of a particu-lar character, or that the sentence is objective and has a particular active character(ActiveCharacter is the empty set for objective sentences without active characters):Interpretation E {{objective, ActiveCharacter} \] ActiveCharacter C Characters} U{{subjective, SC} i SC c Characters}.?
Functions NEW-CONTEXT and NEW-CONTEXT' return the Context of the next inputitem, the former for the case in which the current item is a sentence; the latter for thecase in which the current item is a scene or paragraph break:NEW-CONTEXT : Interpretation x Context --+ Context.NEW-CONTEXT' : {paragraph break, scene break} x Context ~ Context.These functions are also implemented; algorithms for them follow trivially from thedefinitions of an interpretation and of a context and its components.242Janyce M. Wiebe Tracking Point of View in NarrativeThe Context of the i th input item in text t, ci, is({}, {}, {}, presubjective-nonactive)NEW-CONTEXT'(ITEM(t, i -- 1)~ ci-1)CiNEW-CONTEXT(POV(FEATURES(ITEM(t, i -- 1)), ci-1)~Ci-1)i f i= li f i> l&~SENTENCE (ITEM (t, i-- 1))i f i> l&SENTENCE (ITEM (t, i -- 1))where "presubjective-nonactive" is the text situation of the first item in a text, andSENTENCE(X) is true iff x is a sentence.
To refer to the components of a context, weshall use the functions LAST-SC-OF, LAST-ACTIVE-CHARACTER-OF, PREVIOUS-SCS-OF, andTEXT-SITUATION-OF, which map a context C to the LastSC, LastActiveCharacter, Previ-ousSCs, and TextSituation of C, respectively.In the above definitions, LastSC, LastActiveCharacter, SC, and ActiveCharacter aresets, and PreviousSCs is a set of sets.
This is because a subjective sentence can representthe shared psychological POV of more than one physical character (Banfield 1982).
Forexample:(13)13"1Leaning out of the window side by side the two women watchedthe man' .
.
.132Now he threw away his cigarette.
133They watchedhim.
134What would he do next?
\[Woolf, The Years, p. 103; cited byBanfield 1982, p. 96\]Sentence (13.4) is a represented thought whose SC is more than one physical character.6.3 States of Affairs, Sentences, and Contexts: Some Further Details6.3.1 States of Affairs.
The following are the range of state-of-affairs types that can beincluded in a FeatureSet.
For more refined categorizations for the purpose of analyzingtense and aspect, see, for example, Reichenbach (1947) and the papers in the specialissue of Computational Linguistics on tense and aspect in 1988..2.3.4.private-state actions, such as looking and sighing (see Section 11);other kinds of actions;private states; andnonprivate states, such as being six feet tall.The rough part of this categorization is the boundary between the second and fourthitems.
We shall assume that function FEATURES classifies only clear instances of nonpri-vate states as such, and that states of affairs that fall between the categories of actionand nonprivate state, such as processes, are classified as actions.In quoted speech, there are states of affairs on two levels: those spoken of andthe action of speaking itself.
The regularities on which the algorithm is based involvethe latter.
Thus, the contents of the quoted string are not considered, and, even if adiscourse parenthetical does not actually appear, the sentence is viewed as one whosemain clause is about a communicative action (a subtype of (2)above); that is, as onewhose main verb phrase contains a communicative rb with a quoted string as object.We return to this point in Section 9.5.243Computational Linguistics Volume 20, Number 26.3.2 Sentences.
We shall call any Inputltem that is not a scene or paragraph break a"sentence," although such an Inputltem is sometimes smaller than an actual sentence,sometimes larger.
The former occurs for compound sentences and the latter occurs forsentences of quoted speech.Suppose that a compound sentence with conjuncts c1,.. .
,  Cn starts at position i intext t. Then, ITEM(t,/) = cl, ..., ITEM(t,i+n-1) = Cn.
We shall call each ci a "sentence.
"In the case of quoted speech, everything enclosed within a single pair of quotes,together with the accompanying discourse parenthetical, if there is one, counts as asingle Inputltem that we shall call a "sentence."
For example, (4.4) and (4.5) togethercompose a single Inputltem (a single "sentence").
Since the algorithm does not considerthe contents of quoted strings (see Section 6.3.1), there is no reason for each constituentsentence of a quoted string to be a separate Inputltem.From this point forward, numbering within cited passages is as follows: eachInputltem that is not a paragraph or scene break is given a separate number.Now that the units of input have been specified, the following can be noted.
Inthis work, if any part of a sentential Inputltem s is subjective, then s as a whole isconsidered to be subjective.
This makes the algorithm easier to understand.
Enablingit to report which part of s is subjective, if relevant, would involve straightforwardrefinements of the text situations, of interpretations, and of some conditional steps ofthe algorithm into subcases.6.3.3 Choosing a State of Affairs.
Out of the states of affairs included in a FeatureSetfor a sentential input item s, the algorithm chooses just one to consider.
Specifically,the algorithm for POV uses the following function:CHOSEN-STATE-OF-AFFAIRS : FeatureSet - ,  StateOfAffairs.As we shall see in Section 8, private states are particularly important to consider, be-cause if a sentence that is about a private state is interpreted to be a private-statereport, then the SC of the sentence is the experiencer of the private state.
A subordi-nated clause can report a character's private state; an example is "thinking .
.
."
in thefollowing sentence (as it appears in the novel):When he \[Call\] got within fifteen miles of Lonesome Dove he cut west,thinking they would be holding the herd in that direction.
\[McMurtry,Lonesome Dove, p. 181\]Following is the specification of CHOSEN-STATE-OF-AFFAIRS.
Let Cmain be the mainclause of s; let Cl,C2,... ,Cn be the other n clauses of s; and let hn be the head nounof the subject of Cmain.
Further, let SOamain be the state of affairs that Cmain is about; letSOahn be the state of affairs that hn is about (but if hn is not about a state of affairs--forexample, if it is a proper noun--then let sOahn be nil); and let soai (1 K i < n) be the stateof affairs that ci is about.
Then, the result of CHOSEN-STATE-OF-AFFAIRS(FEATURES(S)) isas follows:If SOamain is a private state thenthe result is sOamainelse if SOahn is a private state thenthe result is soahnelse if 3 soai (1 < i < n) such that soai is a private state, and ci is notsubordinated to another clause Ck such that SOak is a private state then244Janyce M. Wiebe Tracking Point of View in NarrativeTable 1Choosing a state of affairs: examples.s: "Japheth turned the book over in a puzzled manner.
"Chosen: SOamainS: "The pain increased.
"Chosen : SOahnS: "The pain angered him.
"Chosen: SOamainS: "When he got within fifteen miles of Lonesome Dove he cut west, thinking theywould be holding the herd in that direction.
"Chosen: soai, where ci = "thinking they would be holding the herd in that direction"s: " 'Rosie's just saying that.
She doesn't really care,' Zoe said."
(sentence (15.3)).Chosen: SOamainn, which is the action of Zoe saying the quoted string.s: "What are you doing in here?"
(sentence (4.1)).Chosen: SOamain, which, as s appears in the novel, is Zoe saying the quoted string.That Zoe is the speaker is in FEATURES(s) (see items (2) and (4)of section 6.1 and the end of section 6.3.1).the result is $oai (if there is more than one such soai, one is randomly chosen)else the result is SOamain.Table 1 gives some examples.Note that private-state t rms appearing in certain types of constituents cannot beused to report private states.
An example is a manner  adverbial  (Quirk et al 1985),such as the italicized portion of "Japheth turned the book over in a puzzled manner.
"(There are others addressed in Wiebe \[1990\], but because of space limitations, we shallignore them in this paper.)
The phrase "in a puzzled manner"  does not report a privatestate, but rather describes the manner in which something is done.
The state of affairschosen for this sentence is s imply the main-clause action.To facilitate discussion, a sentential Inputltem of which the state of affairs chosenfor consideration is of type X will be called an "X sentence," for example, "actionsentence" and "private-state sentence.
"6.3.4 The Text Situations.
Following are the text situations (recall that a text situa-tion is part of the context, defined in Section 6.2).
2 To make it easier to understandthem, definitions are given in both English and diagrams.
Each diagram shows whatappears between the start of the current scene, represented by "start-of-scene," andthe current position, represented by a d iamond (c~).
The start of the current scene iseither a scene break or the very beginning of the text.
The symbol "?"
representsa paragraph break; "objective-sentence" and "subjective-sentence" r present objectiveand subjective sentences, respectively; "sentence" alone represents either a subjectiveor objective sentence; the symbol "*" means 0 or more occurrences, "?"
means 1 ormore occurrences, and " .
.
. "
represents any number  of paragraph breaks and sentences(but not scene breaks, since only what has appeared since the start of the current sceneis shown).
A scene is assumed to always begin with a paragraph break.2 1 am indebted to Stuart C. Shapiro for suggesting the names.245Computational Linguistics Volume 20, Number 2.......presubjective-nonactive: a subjective sentence has not appeared so far inthe current scene, and a sentence with an active character (defined inSection 8.2.2) has not appeared so far in the current paragraph.start-of-scene ?
(objective-sentence + ?)"
objective-sentence ~ oNone has anactive characterpresubjective-active: a subjective sentence has not appeared so far in thecurrent scene, but a sentence with an active character has appearedearlier in the current paragraph.start-of-scene ?
(objective-sentence + ?
)~ objective-sentence +, *At least one hasan active charactercontinuing-subjective: the current sentence follows a subjective sentencewithout a paragraph break.start-of-scene ... ?
sentence ~ subjective-sentence obroken-subjective: the current sentence follows a subjective sentence,but after a paragraph break.start-of-scene .. .
subjective-sentence ?
ointerrupted-subjective: the current sentence follows an objectivesentence, but an earlier sentence in the current paragraph is subjective.start-of-scene .
.. ?
sentence" subjective-sentence sentence ~objective-sentence opostsubjective-nonactive: a subjective sentence has appeared in thecurrent scene, and an objective sentence and a paragraph break haveappeared since the last subjective sentence.
However,  a sentence with anactive character does not appear  earlier in the current paragraph.start-of-scene .. .
subjective-sentence .. .
objective-sentence ?
o-o r -start-of-scene .. .
subjective-sentence .. .
?
objective-sentence +, *YNone has anactive characterpostsubjective-active: like the postsubjective-nonactive situation, exceptthat a sentence with an active character does appear earlier in thecurrent paragraph.start-of-scene .. .
subjective-sentence .. .
?
objective-sentence +, *At least one hasan active character7.
Focus of This WorkAlgorithms for the preprocessing functions are not given in this paper, and algorithmsfor NEW-CONTEXT and NEW-CONTEXT' are given in Appendix A.
The remainder of246Janyce M. Wiebe Tracking Point of View in Narrativethis paper develops an algorithm for function POV, which at the highest level is thefollowing:POV (featureSet~ context)if SENTENCE-IS-SUBJECTIVE (featureSet~ context) then ?9return/subjective~ IDENTIFY-SC (featureSet~ context)I ?8elsereturn/objective~ ACTIVE-CHARACTER-OF (featureSet~ context ) l ?8end ifActive characters are discussed in the section about identifying the SC (Section 8),because the raison d'etre of the active-character component of an interpretation is thatthe active character of an objective sentence may become the LastActiveCharacter of alater context, contexti, and as such, may become the SC of a subjective sentence that isprocessed in contexti.8.
Identifying the Subjective Character8.1 IntroductionThe SC of a subjective sentence can always be identified from the sentence itself ifthe sentence has a narrative parenthetical, such as 'Dennys thought' in (2), and cansometimes be so identified if the sentence is about a private state.
When the SC is notidentifiable from the sentence, she is often a previously mentioned character.
Thus, asthe text is processed, any algorithm for tracking POV must keep track of characterswho are likely to become the SC of a later subjective sentence.
I call such charactersexpected subjective characters.
The algorithm presented in this paper considers twopossibilities: the last subjective character and the last active character of the currentcontext.
Each is an expected subjective character only in certain text situations.
Theidea of keeping track of entities evoked in the text in order to interpret later sentencesis attributable to work on anaphora resolution (e.g., Sidner \[1983\] and Grosz, Joshi,and Weinstein \[1983\]).
Active characters are based specifically on Sidner's actor focus,but while Sidner's actor focus is "whoever is currently the agent in the sentence"(p. 282), many sentences with agents do not have active characters, as we shall see inSection 8.2.2.In some cases, the SC of a subjective sentence isnot identifiable when the sentenceappears, but may be identifiable after later sentences are processed.
The algorithm,as presented in Wiebe (1990), handles one such case.
Because of space limitations,however, this aspect of the algorithm is not presented in this paper, but is only brieflydescribed (in Section 8.2.4).Here is a high-level algorithm for identifying the SC (comments are preceded by'O/o'):IDENTIFY-SC (featureSet~ context)% IDENTIFY-SC(featureSet~ context) C Characters; the empty set indicates failure.if IDENTIFY-SC-FROM-THE-SENTENCE(featureSet~ context) ~ {} thenreturn IDENTIFY-SC-FROM-THE-SENTENCE (featureSeL context)else if LAST-SC-IS-AN-EXPECTED-SC (context) andLAST-ACTIVE-CHARACTER-IS-AN-EXPECTED-SC (context ) thenreturn CHOOSE-AN-EXPECTED-SC (featureSet~ context)else if LAST-SC-IS-AN-EXPECTED-SC(context) thenreturn LAST-SC-OF( context)247Computational Linguistics Volume 20, Number 2else if LAST-ACTIVE-CHARACTER-IS-AN-EXPECTED-SC(context) henreturn LAST-ACTIVE-CHARACTER-OF(context)elsereturn {}end ifThe following subsections refine and illustrate the above algorithm.
We first consideridentifying the SC based on expected subjective characters (in Section 8.2), and thenidentifying the SC from the sentence (in Section 8.3).8.2 Identifying the SC from the ContextIn this section, we consider cases in which the SC of a subjective sentence cannotbe identified from the sentence itself.
We first consider the last subjective character(Section 8.2.1), then the last active character (Section 8.2.2), and then the cases inwhich both (Section 8.2.3) or neither (Section 8.2.4) are expected subjective characters.8.2.1 The Last Subjective Character.
An SC who is not identifiable from the sentenceitself is most often the last subjective character.
In this case, the current sentence iscontinuing a character's POV, if the previous entence was also subjective, or resumingone, if objective sentences have appeared since the last subjective sentence.
Sentence(1.2) above illustrates the former, and passage (15) illustrates the latter:(15)15"lZoe would have liked to punch her.
lS'2She could not understandwhy her parents didn't know Rosie was a phony.15"3"Rosie's just saying that.
She doesn't really care," Zoe said.15"4"I do too!"
cried Rosie.lS'S"Phony!"
Zoe yelled.lS6"That will be enough."
157Their father stood up.
15"8"You maytake your plate to the kitchen.
"15"9"What about Rosie!"
Zoe yelled.15"1?
"I will worry about Rosie.
"ls'nThere was no use arguing.
\[Oneal, War Work, p. 40; italics inoriginal\]Sentences (15.1), (15.2), and (15.11) are Zoe's subjective sentences.
Sentence (15.11)expresses Zoe's judgment hat there is no use in arguing, resuming Zoe's point ofview: it has the same SC as the last subjective sentence, (15.2), and is separated from(15.2) by objective sentences (15.3)-(15.10).If there has not been a subjective sentence so far in the text, then the last subjectivecharacter, which is the empty set in this case, clearly should not be an expected subjec-tive character.
Moreover, drastic spatial and temporal discontinuities can block the con-tinuation or resumption of a character's psychological POV.
This paper considers onesuch kind of discontinuity, a scene break.
The condition under which the last subjectivecharacter of contexti is an expected subjective character is when a subjective sentencehas appeared in the current scene.
That is, LAST-SC-IS-AN-EXPECTED-SC (contexti) is trueiff TEXT-SITUATION-OF(contexti) ~ {presubjective-nonactive, pr subjective-active}.A scene break is a break from one parallel story-line to another.
Almeida (1987)analyzes parallel story-lines as forming separate narrative-lines, which are stretchesof narrative that are controlled by single now-points.
The following passage illustrates248Janyce M. Wiebe Tracking Point of View in Narrativethe situation in which a scene break blocks the resumption of a character's point ofview:(16)16"1Moving fast, in the dark.16'2He'd lost Cherry.
16"3He'd lost the hammer.
16"4She must've slidback down into Factory when the guy fired his first shot.
16SLast shot,if he'd been under that box when it came down ...\[Mixture of subjective sentences of the same character and quoted speech\]\[Chapter break\]16"6What kind of place was this, anyway?167Things had gotten to a point where Mona couldn't get any com-fort out of imagining Lanette's advice.
\[Gibson, Mona Lisa Overdrive,pp.
275-276; ellipsis in original\]As passage (16) appears in the novel, the SC of all of the subjective sentences beforethe chapter break is the character Slick, and a scene break occurs at the chapter break.While the sentence following the break is subjective, the SC of that sentence shouldnot be identified to be the last subjective character, Slick.8.2.2 The Last Active Character.
A SC who is not identifiable from the sentence itselfmay also be the actor of an action that a previous objective sentence is about (but lesscommonly than the last subjective character).
Since this character need not be the SCof the last subjective sentence, this is a way for the author to initiate a new point ofview.
Following is an example (by this point in the novel, both Jake and Augustushave been the SC of previous ubjective sentences):(17)17.1 Jake felt sour.
17"2He wished again that circumstances hadn'tprompted him to come back.
173He had already spent one full nighton horseback, 174and now the boys were expecting him to spend an-other, all on account of a bunch of livestock he had no interest in inthe first place.17"5"I don't know as I'm coming," he said.
17'6"I just got here.
IfI'd known you boys did nothing but chase horses around all night, Idon't know that I would have come.
"177"Why, Jake, you lazy bean," Augustus aid, 17"Sand walked off.179jake had a stubborn streak in him, 171?and once it was activatedeven Call could seldom do much with him.
\[McMurtry, Lonesome Dove,p.
162\]As this passage appears in the novel, (17.1)-(17.4) are the subjective sentences of Jake,and (17.9)-(17.10) are the subjective sentences of Augustus, the actor of an action thata previous objective sentence was about (sentence (17.8)).
However, it is Jake who isthe last subjective character, so Augustus's point of view is being initiated, not merelyresumed or continued.The situation I observed in which POV shifts to an actor (who is not also the lastsubjective character) is one in which the actor was the SC of some previous ubjective249Computational Linguistics Volume 20, Number 2sentence in the text, and the sentence about his or her action is focused by the text.
Theprecise situation is captured by the following specifications ofwhat an active characteris, what the last active character is, and of the text situations in which the last activecharacter is expected.Suppose that os is an objective sentence that is Inputltemj.
Saying that os has anactive character means that POV(FEATURES(0S), contextj) = /objective, ac I, where ac isnot the empty set.
This is the case iff:os is about an action that is actually performed in the current scene by ac(more precisely, when the state of affairs chosen for consideration is suchan action), andii.
acc  PREVIOUS-SCS-OF (contextj).
That is, ac is in the set of characters whohave been the SC of some previous ubjective sentence in the text(possibly before the current scene).The algorithm for POV determines whether an action meets the conditions in (i) bylooking at such things as the tense, aspect, and mood of os (the features the algorithmconsiders are in FEATURES(0s)).
First, to guarantee that the action is not performedearlier or later than the current moment in the story, the main verb phrase of os mustbe in the simple past.
Also, to be about a specific action, os cannot be habitual.
So,the main verb phrase cannot be accompanied by an adverbial such as at times, usually,rarely, or on weekends.
3 Finally, to be about an action that actually occurs, the mainclause of the sentence must not contain modal auxiliary verbs such as could, going to,had better, have to, might, should, or must, modal adverbs uch as likely, maybe, perhaps,or possibly, and it must not be negated.
If the action is quoted speech, then theserestrictions apply to the discourse parenthetical.Now we turn to the last active character.
In contexti, LAST-ACT1VE-CHARACTER-OF(contexti) is the empty set if no sentences with active characters have appeared;otherwise, it is the active character of the last sentence that had one.The last active character is an expected subjective character only when a subjec-tive sentence has not appeared earlier in the current paragraph, and there is an earliersentence in the current paragraph that has an active character.
That is, LAST-ACTIVE-CHARACTER-IS-AN-EXPECTED-SC (contexti) is true iff TEXT-SITUATION-OF(contexti) E{presubjective-active, postsubjective-active }.8.2.3 When There Are Two Expected Subjective Characters.
When the last activecharacter and the last subjective character are both expected subjective characters(which, as the reader may have noticed, is when the current ext situation is post-subjective-active), the algorithm chooses the last active character in most cases, sincehe or she is more highly focused by the text.
In fact, there is only one case in whichthe algorithm chooses the last subjective character: when the sentence is about he lastactive character (specifically, when the last active character is the experiencer o  actorof the state of affairs chosen for consideration).
Following is the algorithm for functionCHOOSE-AN-EXPECTED-SC introduced in Section 8.1 above.
The only new function isEXPERIENCER-OR-ACTOR-OF, which maps a state of affairs soa and a feature set f into3 The fact that a sentence r is habitual is part of FEATURES(r).
The system demonstrated in Appendix Brelies on adverbials to decide whether or not a sentence is habitual.
However, an adverbial is notnecessary for a simple-past narrative sentence to be habitual.250Janyce M. Wiebe Tracking Point of View in Narrativethe actor or experiencer of soa (if soa or its actor or experiencer is not in f,  the resultis the empty set).CHOOSE-AN-EXPECTED-SC(featureSet, context)if EXPERIENCER-OR-ACTOR-OF (CHOSEN-STATE-OF-AFFAIRS ~eatureSet),featureSet)= LAST-ACTIVE-CHARACTER-OF (context) thenreturn LAST-SC-OF (context)elsereturn LAST-ACTIVE-CHARACTER-OF (context)end ifThe criterion for choosing the last subjective character is correct for the situation inwhich the last subjective character's attention is directed toward the last active char-acter, and the sentence represents the last subjective character's reflection about orobservation of the other.
It is incorrect, however, if the sentence is the last active char-acter's elf-reflection or self-perception; this heuristic relies on the relative infrequencyof subjective sentences about oneself.Consider subjective sentence (15.11).
When this sentence is encountered, only thelast subjective character (Zoe) is expected, because the sentence is at the beginning ofa new paragraph.
The algorithm correctly identifies her to be the subjective character.Now consider (17.9), which is also subjective.
When it is encountered, not only is thelast subjective character expected (Jake), but so is the last active character (Augustus):Augustus is the active character of (17.7)-(17.8), because he has been the SC of previoussubjective sentences and (17.7)-(17.8) are objective sentences about his current actions;and, when (17.9) is encountered, the last active character is expected, since (17.8) (butno subjective sentences) appeared earlier in the current paragraph.
The algorithmcorrectly identifies the SC to be Augustus (the last active character), rather than Jake(the last subjective character), because the criterion for choosing the last subjectivecharacter is not satisfied: the sentence isnot about he last active character.
Competitionalso arises in the following passage, but this time it is the last subjective characterwho should be chosen.
When the passage is encountered, Lorena is the last subjectivecharacter:(18)ls'l"I never tolt on you, Lorie," he \[Lippy\] said.
18'2He looked likehe might cry too.
183you'll just have to cry, she \[Lorena\] thought.\[McMurtry, Lonesome Dove, p. 218\]By this point in the novel, Lippy has been a subjective character.
Thus, since (18.1) isabout his current action, he is the active character of (18.1).
After (18.1), Lippy, as thelast active character, is expected, because (18.1) is an objective sentence that beginsa new paragraph.
Sentence (18.2) is subjective because the evidential 'looked like'appears.
Competition is (correctly) resolved in favor of the last subjective character(Lorena), because the sentence is about the last active character (Lippy).8.2.4 When There Are No Expected Subjective Characters.
If no character is expected,then the algorithm fails to identify the SC at this point in the text.
This eventuality israre, relative to others: it can arise only upon the first subjective sentence of a scene(otherwise, the last subjective character would be expected) and only in the absence ofone of the things that are usually used to initiate a character's point of view (such as251Computational Linguistics Volume 20, Number 2a narrative parenthetical or private-state r port, discussed in Section 8.3).
An exampleof this is (16.6), and another is (19.1), which is the beginning of a novel:(19)19"1Captain Scalawag's treasure!
19"2It was the first thing Petethought of when he woke up.
\[Lorimer, The Mystery of the MissingTreasure, p. 1\]In a case such as (19.1), it is not possible to identify the SC without reading further inthe text.
In a case such as (16.6), however, it might be possible to do so.
That is, a readermight be able to infer who the SC is from clues in the sentence, such as indicationsof place, or facts that only a certain character knows.
This process is not addressed inthis work.
However, the author could have made identifying the SC easier by using,for example, a narrative parenthetical or private-state r port (see Section 8.3); by notincluding one of these, the author is deliberately demanding some extra work fromthe reader.The algorithm as presented in Wiebe (1990) can identify the SC after later sentencesare processed in the case where a later sentence contains a narrative parenthetical or isa private-state r port.
As illustrations, (16.7) is a private-state r port whose SC, Mona,is the SC of (16.6), and (19.2) is a private-state report whose SC, Pete, is the SC of(19.1).8.3 Identifying the SC from the SentenceWe now turn to cases in which the SC is identifiable from the sentence itself (thatis, cases in which IDENTIFY-SC-FROM-THE-SENTENCE(featureSet, context) ~ {}; see Sec-tion 8.1).
In these cases, the SC of sentence s is chosen from among certain charactersin FEATURES(s).
Such a character need not be the last subjective character; when she isnot, s initiates her POV.
Thus, the cases discussed in this section--i.e., uses of sentenceswith certain features in particular contexts--are ways to initiate a character's POV.The straightforward case is when s contains a narrative parenthetical, such assentence (2).
The SC is always the subject of the parenthetical.The less straightforward case is when s is a private-state sentence.
Dole~el (1973),Cohn (1978), and Banfield (1982) all note that a private-state sentence is a way toinitiate a character's POV.
In the framework presented in this paper, the SC may bethe experiencer of the private state, even if she is not the last subjective character.
Anexample occurs in (20):(20)2?a"Drown me?"
Augustus aid.
2?
'2"Why if anybody had tried it,those girls would have clawed them to shreds."
2?
'3He knew Call wasmad, 2?
'4but wasn't much inclined to humor him.
2?
'5It was his dinnertable as much as Call's, 2?
'6and if Call didn't like the conversation hecould go to bed.2?
'7Call knew there was no point in arguing.
2?
'8That was what Au-gustus wanted: argument.
2?9He didn't really care what the questionwas, 2?
'1?and it made no great difference to him which side he wason.
2?
'nHe just plain loved to argue.
\[McMurtry, Lonesome Dove, p. 16\]Sentences (20.3)-(20.6) are Augustus's ubjective sentences and (20.7)-(20.11) are Call's.Thus, (20.7) initiates a new POV.
It is a private-state sentence and the SC, Call, is theexperiencer of the private state.
But passage (20) also shows that the SC of a private-252Janyce M. Wiebe Tracking Point of View in Narrativestate sentence need not be the experiencer.
In (20.6), for example, "Call didn't like theconversation" is about a private state (Call not liking the conversation), but the SCof the sentence is Augustus, not Call.
In the following subsections, we will considerfactors that can indicate that it is not the experiencer who is the SC of a private-statesentence.8.3.1 Textual Continuity.
POV does not typically shift from one character to anotherwithout a paragraph break.
Thus, the absence of a paragraph break suggests that ashift has not occurred.
Consider the following schema, in which a subjective sentenceS, whose SC is X, is followed, without a paragraph break, by a private-state sentenceP whose experiencer is a different character Y:?
sentence* subjective-sentence-S private-state-sentence-PSC = X experiencer = YCharacter Y is the experiencer of the private state that P is about.
If Y were also the SCof P, then a shift would have occurred, from X's POV to Y's POV, without a paragraphbreak.
The fact that no paragraph break appears--that is, that P is in the continuing-subjective situation--suggests that P continues X's POV rather than initiating Y's.When a private-state s ntence appears in the continuing-subjective situation, therefore,the algorithm identifies the SC to be the last SC rather than the experiencer of theprivate state.The question of whether there is a psychological link between paragraph breaksand tracking POV has not been previously investigated.
Stark (1987, 1988) performedpsychological experiments hat showed that there is a significant correlation betweenparagraph breaks and discourse discontinuities, but the sorts of discontinuities sheinvestigated did not include changes in POV.
Nakhimovsky and Rapaport (1988) sug-gest that in narrative, paragraph breaks accompany changes in POV, but they didnot investigate this hypothesis experimentally.
In fact, we have performed psycholog-ical experiments (Bruder and Wiebe 1990 and in press) that did establish such a link.Specifically, through manipulation of paragraph breaks in naturally occurring pas-sages, the experiments showed that readers' interpretations of private-state sentencesare influenced by paragraph breaks as we predicted on the basis of the algorithm.8.3.2 Subjective Elements.
Private-state sentences are pragmatically ambiguous as towhether they are private-state reports or represented thoughts.
4 Consider sentence(21):(21) John knew Mary had the key.Sentence (21) is about a private state:"John knew Mary had the key.
"ps(pl,experiencerl, attitude1, objectl)4 A private-state sentence may also be objective.
An example isa simple-past sentence with a negatedfactive term and a propositional object, such as "John did not know that Mary was in the next room.
"This sentence annot be John's subjective s ntence; it is either objective or the subjective s ntence ofsomeone else.
Because ofspace limitations, how the algorithm recognizes and processes such sentencesis not discussed inthis paper; see Wiebe and Rapaport (1988) and Wiebe (1990).253Computational Linguistics Volume 20, Number 2Under a private-state r port interpretation of (21), pl is not itself the object of someother private state.
But under a represented thought interpretation of (21), pl is theobject of some other private state P2, the experiencer and attitude of which are implicit:ps (P2, experiencer2, attitude2,"John knew Mary had the key.
"object2 = pl )To my knowledge, this ambiguity in the interpretation of private-state sentences andits importance in tracking POV have not been previously discussed in linguistics orliterary theory.
For example, Cohn (1978) says that represented thoughts can be dis-tinguished from private-state r ports by "the absence of mental verbs" in the former(p. 104).The SC of a private-state r port is always the experiencer of the private state.
So,if some oracle were to inform you that (21) is a private-state r port, you would thenknow that the SC is the experiencer of the private state (John).
On the other hand, ifthe oracle were to inform you that (21) is a represented thought, you could not thenidentify the SC just by looking at the sentence alone.
In fact, it is true of any representedthought without a narrative parenthetical, private-state s ntence or otherwise, that youcannot identify the SC from the sentence itself.
This is so regardless of whether or notthe SC happens to be referred to in the sentence.
Consider the following two sentences,which are represented thoughts from different pages of a short story ("The GardenParty" by Katharine Mansfield):(22) Why couldn't she?
(23) What nice eyes he had, small, but such a dark blue!As these sentences appear in the story, the SC of (22) happens to be the referent of"she" (corresponding to the conversational utterance, "Why can't I?
'), but the SC of(23) is not mentioned in the sentence at all.
Even though you know that (22) and (23)are represented thoughts, you need to consider the context o identify their SCs.
Thus,if a private-state sentence s contains ome indication that s is a represented thought,then the SC cannot be identified from s itself, and, as discussed in Section 8.2, theexpected subjective characters should be considered.Subjective lements indicate that a sentence is a represented thought (this state-ment is qualified later in this section and in Section 10).
Subjective lements are lin-guistic elements that express emotions, uncertainty, evaluations, and other kinds ofsubjectivity (Banfield 1982) (they are discussed in detail in Section 9).
Examples areevaluative terms such as 'the old bag' (Banfield 1982) and evidentials uch as 'evi-dently' and 'apparently' (Dole~el 1973).In the following passage, a subjective lement indicates that the SC of a private-state sentence is not the experiencer of the private state.
At the start of the passage,Sandy and Dennys are (collectively) the last subjective character:(24)24"1Japheth, evidently realizing that they were no longer behindhim, turned around 242and jogged back toward them, seemingly cooland unwinded.
\[UEngle, Many Waters, p. 24\]The subjective lement 'evidently' in (24.1) indicates that the sentence is not a private-state report.
That is, (24.1) is not a report that Japheth realizes that they are no longer254Janyce M. Wiebe Tracking Point of View in Narrativebehind him.
Rather, Sandy and Dennys (the collective SC) ascribe this private state tohim.However, subordinated subjective lements, those within the scope of the private-state term, can appear in private-state r ports.
(This is one reason why I define private-state reports to be subjective.)
Thus, they cannot be used to distinguish private-statereports from represented thoughts, and so cannot be used as evidence that the SC ofa private-state s ntence is not the experiencer.
For example:(25)25'1Ugh!
she \[the girl\] thought.
25"2How could the poor thing havemarried him in the first place?25"3johnnie Martin could not believe that he was seeing that oldbag's black eyes sparkling with disgust and unsheathed contempt athim.
\[Caldwell, No One Hears But Him, pp.
98-99\]Sentence (25.3) is a private-state r port and the experiencer is the SC (Johnnie Martin);this is so even though (25.3) contains the subjective lement 'old bag' and even thoughthere is an expected subjective character (the girl) when it is encountered.
Because 'oldbag' appears within the scope of the private-state rm 'believe,' it is not consideredin identifying the SC.
On the other hand, the subjective lement 'evidently' in (24.1)is not in the scope of 'realizing' (i.e., it is nonsubordinated); thus, it can be used asevidence that the SC is not the experiencer of the private state.If a private-state s ntence does not have a nonsubordinated subjective lement anddoes not appear in the continuing-subjective situation, then the algorithm identifiesthe SC to be the experiencer.8.3.3 Broadening and Narrowing of POV.
Recall that an experiencer, actor, SC, orexpected subjective character may be more than one physical character (recall thatthese entities are represented as sets).
A broadening of point of view occurs when anew subjective character is a superset of the old subjective character, and a narrowingoccurs when a new one is a subset of the old one.
One situation in which such changesoccur is when the experiencer of a private-state r port is such a subset or superset.One addition to the algorithm as described so far is needed to allow for this situation:for a private-state s ntence in the continuing-subjective situation (without subjectiveelements that can be considered), if the experiencer is a superset or subset of the lastsubjective character, then it is the experiencer who the algorithm chooses to be the SC,rather than the last subjective character.
For example:(26)26"1In the clear late afternoon light they \[Call and Augustus\] couldsee all the way back to Lonesome Dove and the river and Mexico.26"2Augustus regretted not tying a jug to his saddle---~63he would haveliked to sit on the little hill and drink for an hour.
\[McMurtry, LonesomeDove, p. 241\]As this passage appears in the novel, (26.1) is the subjective sentence of both Call andAugustus, but (26.2) is the subjective sentence only of Augustus; thus, point of viewnarrows upon (26.2).
The above rule precludes the reading of a sentence such as (26.2)as the represented thought of the last subjective character (i.e., Call and Augustusin passage (26)).
However, no examples of such a reading were found in the textsexamined; note that the rule applies only if there are no subjective lements that canbe considered in the sentence.255Computational Linguistics Volume 20, Number 28.3.4 Unspecified Experiencers.
Consider the following passage:(27)27'lFor the first time in his life, Sandy had a flash of gratitude thatDennys was not with him.27'2Then anxiety surfaced.
27"3"Deunys--" \[UEngle, Many Waters,p.
91Sentence (27.2) is a private-state sentence; specifically, CHOSEN-STATE-OF-AFFAIRS(FEA-TURES (27.2)) = ps, where ps is the private state that the private-state noun "anxiety"is about (see Section 6.3.3).
Both the experiencer of ps and the SC of (27.2) happen tobe the same character (Sandy).
However, the SC of (27.2) cannot be identified fromthe sentence itself, because the experiencer of ps is not mentioned in the sentence.
(I call such experiencers unspecified experiencers; note that EXPERIENCER-OR-ACTOR-OF(ps,FEATURES(27.2)) = {}.)
Thus, for a private-state sentence with an unspecifiedexperiencer, IDENTIFY-SC-FROM-THE-SENTENCE returns the empty set, and the algorithmgoes on to consider expected subjective characters.
In (27), for example, the algorithmcorrectly identifies the SC of (27.2) to be Sandy, the last subjective character.8.3.5 Summary.
Following is the algorithm for function IDENTIFY-SC-FROM-THE-SENT-ENCE (introduced in Section 8.1).
One of the arguments i  a feature set, featureSet; wewill use s to refer to the sentence thatfeatureSet is a feature set of (i.e., FEATURES(S) =featureSet).
With the exception of calls to previously mentioned functions, statementsare given in English.
Further, two cases discussed later (in Sections 10 and 11) are notincluded (the complete version is given in Appendix A).IDENTIFY-SC-FROM-THE-SENTENCE (featureSet, context)soa ~ CHOSEN-STATE-OF-AFFAIRS (featureSet)if s contains a narrative parenthetical thenreturn the subject of the narrative parentheticalelse if1 (soa is a private state ) and2 % not an unspecified experiencer(EXPERIENCER-OR-ACTOR-OF(soa, fe tureSet) # {}) and3 (There are no nonsubordinated subjective lements in the sentence) and4:(a) ((TEXT-SITUATION-OF(context) # continuing-subjective) or(b):(i) ((TEXT-SITUATION-OF(context) = continuing-subjective) and(ii): % broadening or narrowing of POV(1) ( (EXPERIENCER-OR-ACTOR-OF(soa) CLAST-SC-OF (context) or(2) (EXPERIENCER-OR-ACTOR-OF (soa) DLAST-SC-OF (context))))then return EXPERIENCER-OR-ACTOR-OF(soa)else return {}end ifend if256Janyce M. Wiebe Tracking Point of View in Narrative9.
Recognizing Subjective Sentences9.1 IntroductionWe now turn to deciding whether or not a sentence is subjective in the first place.
Au-thors could unambiguously mark each subjective sentence as subjective, by includinga narrative parenthetical in each, for example.
But suppose that a sentence S that theauthor intends to be subjective appears in the continuing-subjective situation:(i) ?
sentence" subjective-sentence s ntence-S sentence * ?SC = XA character's POV very often continues at least until the end of the paragraph.
So, inschema (i), S and any sentences after S until the paragraph break will very often besubjective sentences ofX.
Thus, the reader has a strong expectation that X's POV willcontinue, so a weak hint that S is subjective is sufficient for the reader to recognizethat it is.Now consider a text situation in which there has been a subjective sentence in thescene, but objective sentences and paragraph breaks have appeared since then:(ii) start-of-scene ... subjective-sentence (objective-sentence + ?
)+ sentence-SSC = XIn S's context in schema f/i), X is an expected subjective character.
The reader expectsX's POV to be resumed, but not as strongly as the reader expects X's POV to becontinued in schema (i), since the local context of S in (ii) is not subjective as it is in(i).
An unambiguous indication that S is subjective isnot necessary, but a stronger hintshould be included than is sufficient in (i).The main sorts of "hints" of subjectivity that the algorithm considers are linguisticelements that potentially express ubjectivity (potential subjective elements).
Some ofthese are weaker hints than others, and many are usually subjective only in certain textsituations.
The algorithm, which, recall, tracks point of view on the basis of regularities,uses the text situation to decide whether an instance of one is indeed subjective.
"Subjective lement" is the term I use for an instance of a potential subjectiveelement that actually is subjective in the context of use.
This term is borrowed fromBanfield (1982), but redefined; Banfield uses it to refer only to linguistic elements thatare always subjective.Section 9.2 identifies a number of potential subjective lements, and Section 9.3specifies how the algorithm uses them and other information to recognize subjectivesentences.9.2 Potential Subjective ElementsPrevious work in linguistics and literary theory noted the presence in subjective sen-tences of many (but not all) of the potential subjective lements considered by thealgorithm.
However, with the exception of two of the elements, the perfective andprogressive aspects (see below), previous work did not address the problem that manyof the elements are only potentially subjective, and can also appear in objective sen-tences.
Further, Wiebe (1990) contains an extensive, detailed catalogue of the potentialsubjective lements (specified mainly in terms of syntactic and semantic ategoriespresented in Quirk et al \[1985\]); such a catalog did not previously exist.Most of the potential subjective lements are lexical.
But it is not words and phrasesthemselves that are potential subjective lements, but rather words and phrases used257Computational Linguistics Volume 20, Number 2Table 2Some potential subjective lements.1 Exclamations, uch as (25.1), and direct questions, uch as (25.2)2 Elements that express evaluation or judgement2.1 Adjectives uch as 'awful' in (4.6) and 'poor' in (25.2)2.2 Nouns such as 'old bag' in (25.3)2.3 Adverbs such as "oddly' and 'incredibly'2.4 Auxiliary verbs and phrases that express judgments of obligation, such as'had better', 'ought o', 'should', and 'be supposed to'2.5 Adverbs such as 'scarcely' and 'hardly' (when used as minimizer subjuncts(Quirk et al 1985)), as in "She could hardly be expected to live there"3 Elements that express a lack of knowledge3.1 Subordinators such as 'whoever' and 'whatever', when used in reference toparticular individuals, as in "Whatever it was, it had flown by quickly"3.2 Adjectival phrases uch as 'some kind of', when used in reference to particularindividuals, as in "The object in her hand was some kind of weapon"with particular meanings.
For example, 'poor' is a potential subjective lement onlywith its evaluative meaning, as in "Poor John was sick," but not with its nonevaluativemeaning, as in "John was poor" (Banfield 1982; the evaluative meaning of 'poor' isone of the elements that Banfield argues is always subjective).Tables 2 and 3 list some potential subjective lements, giving very brief character-izations.
For further details, see Wiebe (1990).
All of the citations in Tables 2 and 3 arewith respect o the linguistic categories of the elements.
Some of those who discussthe appearance of the elements in subjective sentences are as follows: Banfield (1982)discusses (1), (2.1)-(2.3), (4), (5), and (12); Dole~el (1973) discusses (1), (2.1)-(2.3), (5),(6.1), (6.2), and (8); Brinton (1980) discusses (9) (she shows that a simile can be a markerof represented perception) and (12); Ehrlich (1990) discusses (11), and Ehrlich (1987)discusses (12).The past perfective is potentially subjective simply because a character can reflecton what occurred (or might have occurred) in the past.
However, as discussed byEhrlich (1990) and many others, the narrative past may be expressed by the simple-past tense in the midst of a subjective context; detecting simple-past references to thepast is not addressed in this work.9.3 Recognizing Subjective SentencesSubjective lements are important for recognizing represented thoughts and percep-tions, not private-state r ports (recall, in fact, that a nonsubordinated subjective le-ment is evidence that a private-state sentence is not a report).
That is, they are impor-tant for recognizing subjective sentences whose subjective characters are to be identi-fied from the context, rather than from the sentence itself.My examination of novels and short stories suggests the following (we are cur-rently performing psychological experiments investigating the aspects of the algorithmdiscussed in this section): (1) Two potential subjective lements, the past perfective and258Janyce M. Wiebe Tracking Point of View in NarrativeTable 3Some potential subjective lements (continued).4 Sentence fragments, such as (30.6)5 Kinship terms, such as 'Dad' and 'Aunt Margaret'6 Evidentials, which, in the broadest sense, qualify the information conveyed by astatement (Chafe 1986)6.1 Evidentials that express certainty or uncertainty, such as 'surely' and 'might'6.2 Evidentials that express certainty or uncertainty and also that one's knowledge isbased partly on evidence.
Examples are 'evidently', seemingly', 'must have','appear to be', 'as if', 'as though', and 'look', as in "He looked like he might cry"6.3 Hedges, e.g., adverbs uch as 'more or less' and 'sort of' when used as modifiersof adjectives and adverbs, as in "It was more or less green", or as adverbials(Quirk et al 1985), as in "The man more or less held a large stretch of the border"6.4 Evidentials that address expectations6.4.1 Signal that expectations have been met, such as 'of course' (when used asan emphasizer subjunct (Quirk et al 1985)) as in "John of course sat down"6.4.2 Signal that expectations have not been met.
Examples are adverbs uch as'just', 'merely', and 'only' (when used as attitude diminishers(Quirk et al 1985)), as in "He just sat and drank" (it was expected thathe would do something "more" than sit and drink)7 Adverbials that are conjuncts, which connect units of discourse (Quirk et al 1985)(i.e., cue phrases; Reichman 1985, Grosz and Sidner 1986, Cohen 1987).
Examplesare 'first', 'in addition', 'for instance', on the other hand', 'after all','anyway', and 'yet' as in "Yet, they were the pride of the family"8 Conditional clauses9 Comparative 'like', as in "They followed her like acolytes behind a goddess"10 Habitual sentences, uch as "Gus himself often joked about it"11 The past perfective, but only in the main verb phrase12 The progressive, but only in the main verb phrasethe progressive, can typical ly serve only to cont inue a character 's  POV and only withina paragraph (see Ehrlich \[1987\] for an analysis of why  this is so for the progressive);(2) stronger ones can cont inue a character 's  POV after a paragraph break, or resumea character 's  POV within a paragraph;  (3) still stronger ones, such as evidentials andsentence fragments, can resume the last subjective character 's  POV or initiate the lastactive character 's  just as long as they are expected subjective characters; and (4) thestrongest subjective lements, such as exclamations and questions, are a lways subjec-tive, even when there is not an expected subjective character to whom to attribute the259Computational Linguistics Volume 20, Number 2sentence.
The sets of text situations corresponding to (1)-(4) are:lts2ts3ts4ts{continuing-subjective}{broken-subjective, interrupted-subjective}{presubjective-active, postsubjective-nonactive, postsubjective-active}{presubjective-nonactive}Expectations for a subjective sentence are strongest in situation (lts) and weakest insituation (4ts), so the algorithm takes even the weakest potential subjective lementsto be subjective in (lts), but only the strongest ones to be subjective in (4ts).
In general,each potential subjective lement pse is associated with a set of text situations t suchthat the algorithm interprets pse to be subjective iff the current text situation is in t.There is an its (1 < i < 4) such that t contains the situations in lts through its but notthose in its + 1 through 4ts.
We shall say that pse is associated at the highest level withthe situations in its.In addition to potential subjective lements, there is another source of informationthe algorithm considers: the type of state of affairs the sentence is about.
First, private-state action sentences can be subjective; see Section 11.
Second, private-state s ntencesare usually subjective (we are not considering objective private-state sentences in thispaper; see Wiebe \[1990\] and footnote 4).
Third, a nonprivate-state s ntence in thecontinuing-subjective situation usually continues the subjective context.
For example:(28)28.1Lorena didn't like it that Gus acted like Jake wasn't much.
282Hehad a reputation for being a cool man in a fight.
\[McMurtry, LonesomeDove, p. 190\]Sentence (28.1) is Lorena's ubjective sentence, and (28.2), a nonprivate-state s ntence,continues her subjective context.
In the continuing-subjective situation, therefore, thealgorithm interprets a nonprivate-state s ntence to be subjective)9.4 Examples and DiscussionConsider the following passage:(29)29"1Call had heard from someone that she had been raised rich, in theEast, with servants to comb her hair and help her into her shoes whenshe got up.
29'2It might just have been a story--293it was hard for himto imagine a grownup who would need to be helped into their ownshoes--39"4but if even part of it was true she had come a long waydown.
29"5Ned Spettle had never got around to putting a floor in the5 Notice that there are three things that are taken as evidence that a sentence is subjective only in thecontinuing-subjective situation: being a nonprivate-state sentence, being in the perfective, and being inthe progressive.
Caenepeel (1989), in work done simultaneously, analyzed aspect and perspectivelinguistically, and reached similar conclusions with respect o these three types of evidence.
Caenepeelsuggests that states appearing in what I call the continuing-subjective situation continue the currentPOV.
Her notion of state includes entences in the perfective and progressive aspects, regardless of thetype of state of affairs that the sentence is about.
It might be desirable to revise this aspect of thealgorithm on the basis of her work, which focused on aspect, to arrive at a more general treatment ofthese three kinds of evidence in this situation.260Janyce M. Wiebe Tracking Point of View in Narrativeshack of a house he built.
29"6His wife was rearing eight children onthe bare dirt.
29'7He had heard it said that Ned had never got overthe war, which might have explained it.
\[McMurtry, Lonesome Dove,p.
176\]All of these sentences are Call's subjective sentences.
Thus, the text situation is continu-ing-subjective after each of them.
Sentences (29.1), (29.3), and (29.7) are Call's private-state reports, and (29.2) and (29.4) contain potential subjective lements that are as-sociated with other situations--and not merely the continuing-subjective one ('might'in (29.2) and 'if even' in (29.4)).
The interesting sentences are (29.5) and (29.6), sincethey contain potential subjective lements that are associated only with the continuing-subjective situation (the past perfective in (29.5) and the progressive in (29.6)).
(Thesesentences express Call's reasons for his belief, expressed in (29.4), that "she had comea long way down.
")In the following passage, a subjective lement appears in a situation other thancontinuing-subjective.
The situation is continuing-subjective at the beginning, andSandy is the last subjective character.(30)3?
'1The eyes were an incredibly bright blue, like the sea with sunlighttouching the waves.3?2Lemech greeted him respectfully.
3?
'3"Adnarel, we thank you."3?
'4Then he said to Sandy, "The seraph will be able to help you.Seraphim know much about healing.
"3?SSo this was a seraph.
3?
'6Tall, even taller than the twins.
\[UEngle,Many Waters, p. 39\]Sentence (30.1) continues Sandy's subjective context, because it contains the subjectiveelements 'incredibly' and comparative 'like.'
Sentences (30.2)-(30.4) are objective, anda paragraph break appears before (30.5), so the situation at the beginning of (30.5) ispostsubjective-nonactive (one of the situations in (3ts)) and the last subjective character,Sandy, is an expected subjective character.
The algorithm is able to recognize that (30.5)is Sandy's subjective sentence, because it contains 'so' used as a conjunct, which issubjective as long as there is an expected subjective character.Consider passage (19) (reprinted here); recall that it is the beginning of a novel,so there isn't an expected subjective character when it is encountered.
(19)19"1Captain Scalawag's treasure!
192It was the first thing Pete thoughtof when he woke up.
\[Lorimer, The Mystery of the Missing Treasure, p. 1\]Since an exclamation is subjective in any situation, the algorithm is able to recognizethat (19.1) is subjective.In the following passage, in contrast, potential subjective elements that are notnecessarily subjective appear when there isn't an expected subjective character.
Thispassage is of the type that Banfield has characterized as having an empty center (Ban-field 1987); 6it describes perceptions and impressions that one would have if observing6 Banfield (1987) extends the definition of subjective sentences given in Banfield (1982) to include thesekinds of sentences; our interest is to recognize character's subjective sentences (for the reasons given inSection 3), so we adopt he earlier definition.261Computational Linguistics Volume 20, Number 2the scene, but no character is present to whom to attribute them.
There is an expectedsubjective character at the beginning of the passage, but a scene break appears afterthe third sentence.
(The blank lines after (31.3) and (31.12) appear in the original.
Thesentences following '-- '  are a kind of unuttered quoted speech.
)(31)31"l"We're coming," Oholibamah said.
31"2arid they hurried towardthe central section of the oasis, where Noah's vineyards were, and hisgrazing grounds, and his tents.
31'3And where Dennys was waitingfor them.314The moon set, its path whiter than the desert sands dwindlinginto shadow.
31SThe stars moved in their joyous dance across the sky.31"6The horizon was dark with that deep darkness which comes justbefore the dawn.31"7A vulture flew down, seemingly out of nowhere, stretching itsnaked neck, settling its dark features.31'B--Vultures are underestimated.
Without us, disease would wipeout all life.
We clean up garbage, feces, dead bodies of man and beast.We are not appreciated.31'9No sound was heard 3H?and yet the words seemed scratchedupon the air.3111The twelve oddly assorted creatt~es began to position themselvesinto a circle.31"12The nephilim.31'13Oholibamah lay in Japheth's arms on a large, flat stone a shortwalk into the desert.
\[UEngle, Many Waters, pp.
118-119\]There are scene breaks after (31.3) and after (31.12).
Between the breaks, there are noprivate-state s ntences or narrative parentheticals, and, since none of the creatures inthe scene has been the SC, there are no sentences with active characters (this is truefor the elided sentences as well).
Thus, if none of the potential subjective lementsare subjective, then there are no expected subjective characters from (31.4) to (31.12).There are strong potential subjective lements that would be subjective if there werean expected subjective character--'seemingly' in (31.7), 'sound' in (31.9), 'yet' usedas a conjunct and 'seemed' in (31.10), 'oddly' in (31.11), and a sentence fragment in(31.12).
However, since these are associated at the highest level with the situations in(3ts), and not with the presubjective-nonactive s tuation, the algorithm correctly doesnot interpret them to be subjective.There are three things to note about passages such as (31).
First, the potential for anovert narrator to appear is strong when there isn't an expected subjective character anda strong element such as 'seemingly' appears; my restriction to texts that do not haveovert narrators allows the algorithm to exclude this possibility from consideration.Second, the algorithm does not revise its decision as to whether a sentence is subjectivein light of later sentences.
However, one could imagine a sentence within passage (31)that might cause the reader to decide that earlier sentences were actually subjective.
Forexample, the following sentence, inserted after (31.10), would suggest his: "Dennyswas mystified by the spectacle."
The algorithm would interpret his sentence to be262Janyce M. Wiebe Tracking Point of View in Narrativesubjective; this would affect its interpretation of the remainder of the passage--thealgorithm would interpret the potential subjective lements in (31.11) and (31.12) to besubjective--but it would not affect its interpretation f earlier sentences.
Third, to beconservative, only Banfield's emotive and evaluative subjective lements, which mustbe understood to express omeone's emotions or evaluations, are associated with thepresubjective-nonactive s tuation (4ts).
As mentioned in Section 8.2.4, the number ofsentences that appear in this situation is relatively small, and, of those that do, manyare private-state r ports or have narrative parentheticals.
It may be that some of thepotential subjective lements associated at the highest level with the situations in (3ts)should also be associated with the one in (4ts); the appearance of the relevant kind ofsubjective sentence in this situation was too rare in the texts examined to decide this.Because there are 34 classes of potential subjective lements, the majority of whichhave multiple members (Wiebe 1990), a significant number of each potential subjec-tive element in each situation was not found.
The association of elements with textsituations is based on the examples that were found, and, for the ones that did notappear very often in the texts examined, on my judgments as to which of the ones thatdid appear often are closest o them in strength.
Psychological experiments (with GailBruder) of this aspect of the algorithm are underway.
We plan to revise the associationof potential subjective lements with text situations as needed in light of the results.9.5 Quoted SpeechIn quoted speech, there are two points of view: the point of view taken by the quotedstring--the speaker's--and the one taken by the discourse parenthetical, which maybe objective or a character's.
7 It is the point of view taken by the discourse paren-thetical that concerns us here: the speaker's point of view is not directly presentedby a quoted string, as the subjective character's i by a subjective sentence, but isconveyed indirectly through a communicative act.
Quoted speech is a major way ofcommunicating the beliefs, intentions, etc., of characters who are not to become theSC; merely the fact that what a character says expresses her point of view should notlead the reader to anticipate later subjective sentences of that character, as the readerdoes after a subjective sentence.Therefore, the algorithm considers ubjective lements that appear in discourseparentheticals, but not those within quoted strings.
For example:(32)"I'll talk to Amy," Daddy said, "and make sure she behaves herself.
"\[Sachs, Amy and Laura, p. 100\]The subjective lement 'Daddy' in the discourse parenthetical is attributed to an ex-pected subjective character, Laura.
In contrast, the algorithm interprets the followingsentence from passage (20) to be objective, even though there is a question in thequoted string:"Drown me?"
Augustus aid.7 See Banfield (1982) for a principled account of the relationship between the points of view of a quotedstring and its discourse parenthetical.263Computational Linguistics Volume 20, Number 210.
A Return to Private-State SentencesIn contrast to what was implied in Section 8.3.2, there are some subjective lements thatdo not suggest hat a private-state sentence is a represented thought, even when theyare nonsubordinated.
First, Cohn (1978) shows that private-state r ports 8 do not alwaysreport private states experienced specifically at the current moment in the story, butinstead have "almost unlimited temporal flexibility" (p. 34).
One consequence of this isthat private-state r ports can be habitual.
Second, Cohn (1978) also shows that private-state reports can employ simile.
9 Thus, comparative 'like' can appear nonsubordinatedin private-state r ports.
For example:(33)His \[Sandy's\] head began to swell, to be filled with hot air like aballoon, so that he was afraid he was going to float off into the sky.\[UEngle, Many Waters, p. 27\]Finally, some intensifier adverbs, when nonsubordinated in a private-state report,simply indicate the degree to which the private state is experienced.
An exampleis 'hardly,' as in:(34)Sandy, his flannel shift still draped over his head, was hardly awarethat he was supporting his brother.
\[UEngle, Many Waters, p. 27\]Sentence (34), as it appears in the novel, is Sandy's private-state r port.Given these observations, we need to revise the algorithm as presented so far: thealgorithm does not consider the above types of subjective lements when it decideswho the SC of a private-state sentence is, even when they are nonsubordinated to theprivate-state rm.11.
Private-State-Action SentencesA private-state action is an action from which a private state can be inferred.
Exam-ples are looking, glancing, sighing, frowning, smiling, and shivering.
In contrast o aprivate-state r port such as "She was unhappy," the sentence "She frowned" narratesa private-state action from which unhappiness or displeasure can be inferred, but doesnot directly report the character's private state.
1?
In a given context, the private statethat can be inferred may or may not be significant for tracking point of view.
It issignificant in the following passage:(35)35"lZoe looked at the notebook.
352On the first page Joe had writtenWAR WORK in large block letters in red and blue crayon.
35"3On thenext page he had written the date 35"4and under it all about seeingMiss Lavatier's boyfriend.
\[Oneal, War Work, p. 47\]8 Cohn's term for a private-state r port is psycho-narration.9 Cohn's term for such reports is psycho-analogy.10 Brinton (1980) notes that perceptions may be reported from an "outer perspective" with terms such as'gaze' and 'look' or from an "inner perspective" with terms such as 'see' and 'hear" (p. 370-371), butshe does not address the significance of this difference for tracking point of view.264Janyce M. Wiebe Tracking Point of View in NarrativeAs this passage appears in the novel, (35.2)-(35.4) continue the subjective context estab-lished by (35.1)--they are subjective sentences presenting what Zoe sees.
Interpreting(35.1) to be subjective, the algorithm is able to recognize that (35.2)-(35.4) are also sub-jective, because the past perfective is a subjective lement in the continuing-subjectivesituation, and it is able to determine that the SC is Zoe, because she is the last sub-jective character.
On the other hand, a private-state action sentence might not be thesubjective sentence of the actor; an example is (36.1):(36)36'1japheth looked at them.
36"2"You are flushed.
And wet."
36"3Hehimself did not seem to feel the intense heat.
\[UEngle, Many Waters,p.
20\]As this passage appears in the novel, (36.3) is the subjective sentence of the last sub-jective character, Sandy and Dennys.
If (36.1) were Japheth's ubjective sentence, thenit would be to Japheth that the subjective lement 'seem' in (36.3) would be attributed,rather than to Sandy and Dennys.Like quoted speech, a private-state-action se tence is a way to communicate some-thing about the consciousness of a character who is not to become the SC.
The readerinfers from (36.1) that Japheth sees the people he is looking at; however, there are nosubsequent subjective sentences about what he sees, such as the sentences in (35) thatshow what Zoe sees.The first decision to be made when one encounters a private-state-action sentenceis whether it should be treated as a private-state sentence or as an action sentence.Whether the sentence is subjective and, if so, who the SC is then depend upon thefactors already presented.The algorithm's treatment of these sorts of sentences i based on the observationthat a more direct appeal to a character's consciousness, such as a private-state r portor a narrative parenthetical, is usually used to establish a character as an SC for thefirst time.
Thus, the actor of a private-state-action se tence that is the actor's subjectivesentence has usually been the SC before.
While consistency in the interpretation of apassage with this sort of sentence must be supported by other factors, this regularityis a strong one in the texts examined.Thus, if the actor has been a SC, then the algorithm treats a private-state-actionsentence s as it would have treated a private-state sentence in the same context; oth-erwise, it treats s as it would have treated an action sentence in the same context (seeWiebe \[1990\] for illustrations of the various consequences of treating s one way or theother).12.
Tests of the AlgorithmThis section summarizes the tests of the algorithm that have been performed.First, the algorithm was hand-simulated on over 700 pages (roughly 17,500 sen-tential input items) from 7 novels that represent a range in the number of differentsubjective characters they contain.
Given the large amount of data and the prepro-cessing requirements of running the algorithm, the purpose of this test was not tocompile statistical measures, but rather to find out what kinds of exceptions occur.Generally, point of view is manipulated in these novels as expected by the algorithm.Of the exceptions, many can be attributed to problems that are specifically not ad-dressed in this work, such as how the spatial and temporal points of view affect thepsychological one (discussed in the next section), how point of view is manipulated in265Computational Linguistics Volume 20, Number 2relatively rare situations, such as the very beginning of a novel, and what constitutesa "significant" subjective context for the purpose of interpreting private-state-actionsentences (discussed in Appendix C).
(The classes of errors and examples of them aregiven in Wiebe \[1990\].
)In order to obtain more specific numeric results, the algorithm was tested, andresults tabulated, for a more modest amount of text (32 pages with 900 sententialinput items).
The results are positive, and are given in Appendix C. Fully testing thealgorithm would require a much larger corpus, in which a significant number of eachof the possibilities arises.
Such testing would be a major endeavor in itself.Finally, as mentioned in Section 8.3.1, we have performed psychological experi-ments that showed that readers' interpretations of private-state sentences are affectedby paragraph breaks as we predicted on the basis of the algorithm (Bruder and Wiebe1990 and in press).
We are continuing this line of research with psychological experi-ments of other aspects of the algorithm.13.
Relation to Anaphora ResolutionA question likely to arise in the reader's mind is how tracking POV and anaphoraresolution are related.
Anaphora resolution is necessary for tracking POV (the actorsand experiencers of states of affairs must be known; see item (4) of Section 6.1).
But itis certainly not sufficient, and an additional mechanism is needed.
A case that clearlyillustrates this is a private-state sentence in which the experiencer is referred to witha pronoun, such as:(37) He hated holidays.Resolving the pronoun is not sufficient for identifying the SC of (37), since the SC mayor may not be the referent of 'he' (see Section 8.3.2).However, the pipeline architecture of the algorithm is not realistic.
Almost cer-tainly, POV affects anaphora resolution, and also recognizing the discourse structureof the text.
Specific issues I am exploring are discussed in the next section.14.
Directions for Future Research and ConclusionOne direction for future research is investigating the interactions of different points ofview.
A large class of exceptions to the algorithm can be attributed to interactions be-tween the spatial and temporal points of view and the psychological one.
For example,there are spatial and temporal discontinuities other than scene breaks after which acharacter should no longer be expected: the current "here" and "now" in the story mayshift away from the character, or the character may leave the scene while the "here"and "now" remain unchanged.
These situations must be distinguished from the situ-ation, occurring with represented thoughts, in which there is a "projected here" anda "projected now" of events that are being thought about, and from the situation inrepresented perception in which there is a "projected here" of events being perceived(Bruder et al 1986; Rapaport et al 1989a, 1989b).An important area of future research is investigating interactions among trackingPOV, recognizing discourse structure, and anaphora resolution.
I am currently focusingon discourse structure within subjective contexts.
We can view a subjective contextas presenting a sequence of private states, where the experiencers and attitudes ofsome are only implicit (in the case of represented thoughts).
In addition to discourserelations among sentences as wholes, there can be discourse relations among objects of266Janyce M. Wiebe Tracking Point of View in Narrativeprivate states, even a hierarchical structure involving several such objects.
As a concreteexample, the contrast signaled by the cue-phrase 'but' appearing in a representedthought may be between a represented thought and the object of a previous private-state report.
One example of a potential effect on pronoun resolution: if a sentence s isto be interpreted as a represented thought, and is to be incorporated into a discourse-segment structure among previous private-state objects, then pronouns in s can beresolved against he focus space(s) corresponding to the private-state-object segments(as in Grosz and Sidner's \[1986\] theory).
Of course, determining whether or not s is tobe so interpreted is a difficult problem.
But such interactions among POV, discoursestructure, and anaphora resolution might be usefully cast as constraints, with evidenceregarding interpretation with respect to one limiting the options to be pursued for theothers.The psychological POV is related to other pragmatic and discourse phenomena.Subjective contexts are paragraph-level analogs of opaque contexts in belief reports(Wiebe \[1991\] specifically addresses this issue).
In addition, the discourse phenomenaidentified by Fauconnier (1985) are similar to the psychological point of view.
Just asa private-state r port can begin a discourse segment in which subsequent sentencesare understood to continue a character's point of view, an adverbial such as "in 1969"can begin a discourse segment in which subsequent sentences are understood to referto events that occurred in 1969, even though the date is not subsequently mentioned.Or, consider discussing someone lse's work, say Smith's, in a research paper or text-book.
After an initial reference to Smith's work, you may go on to describe his orher theory without explicitly saying in each sentence that you are doing so (with alocution such as "Smith shows that," "In Smith's theory, ....
In Smith's algorithm," or"According to Smith") (William J. Rapaport, personal communication).
Along withsubjective contexts, an NLU system must be able to recognize such discourse phe-nomena in order to recover information implicitly communicated in the discourse.
Adetailed investigation of one of them suggests directions for investigating the others.The one investigated here, subjective contexts in particular kinds of texts, is a goodone to investigate because it is possible to constrain the problem, because there are somany prototypical instances in those kinds of texts, and because there is a great dealof previous work in linguistics and literary theory to build upon.In conclusion, this paper presented an algorithm for tracking the psychologicalpoint of view in third-person fictional narrative text.
The algorithm is based on regu-larities, found by extensive xamination ofnaturally occurring narratives, in the waysthat authors manipulate point of view.
The algorithm has been implemented, pre-liminary empirical studies have been performed, which support he algorithm, andpsychological experimentation is continuing.
This is the first detailed computationalapproach to the problem of tracking the psychological point of view.AcknowledgmentsI wish to thank the members of the SUNYBuffalo Graduate Group in CognitiveScience and the SNePS Research Group formany discussions and ideas, and William J.Rapaport, Graeme Hirst, Peter Heeman,Russ Greiner, the anonymous reviewers,and especially Diane Horton for helpfulcomments on earlier drafts of this paper.This research was supported inpart byNational Science Foundation grantsIST-8504713 and IRI-8610517, and thepreparation of this paper was supported inpart by the Natural Sciences andEngineering Research Council of Canada.ReferencesAllen, James F., and Perrault, C. Raymond(1980).
"Analyzing intention inutterances."
Artij~'cial Intelligence 15,143-178.Almeida, Michael J.
(1987).
"Reasoningabout he temporal structure ofnarratives."
Technical report 87-10, SUNY267Computational Linguistics Volume 20, Number 2Buffalo Department of Computer Science.Banfield, Ann (1982).
Unspeakable S ntences:Narration and Representation in the Languageof Fiction.
Routledge & Kegan Paul.Banfield, Ann (1987).
"Describing theunobserved."
In The Linguistics of Writing,edited by Nigel Fabb, 265-285.
Methuen.Barwise, Jon, and Perry, John (1983).Situations and Attitudes.
MIT Press.Brinton, Laurel (1980).
"'Representedperception': A study in narrative style.
"Poetics 9, 363-381.Bruder, Gail A., and Wiebe, Janyce M.(1990).
"A psychological test of analgorithm for recognizing subjectivity innarrative text."
In Proceedings, 12th AnnualConference ofthe Cognitive Science Society.947-952.Bruder, Gail A., and Wiebe, Janyce M. (inpress).
"Recognizing subjectivity andidentifying subjective characters inthird-person fictional narrative."
In Deixisin Narrative: A Cognitive Science Perspective,edited by Judy Duchan and Gail Bruder.Lawrence Erlbaum.Bruder, Gail A.; Duchan, Judith F.;Rapaport, William J.; Segal, Erwin M.;Shapiro, Stuart C.; and Zubin, David A.(1986).
"Deictic centers in narrative: Aninterdisciplinary cognitive-scienceproject."
Technical report 86-20, SUNYBuffalo Department of Computer Science.Caenepeel, Mimo (1989).
Aspect, temporalordering, and perspective in narrative fiction.Doctoral dissertation, University ofEdinburgh.Carberry, Sandra (1989).
"Apragmatics-based approach to ellipsisresolution."
Computational Linguistics15(2), 75-96.Chafe, Wallace (1986).
"Evidentiality inEnglish conversation and academicwriting."
In Evidentiality: The LinguisticCoding of Epistemology, edited by WallaceChafe and Johanna Nichols, 261-272.Ablex.Chatman, Seymour (1978).
Story andDiscourse: Narrative Structure in Fiction andFilm.
Cornell University Press.Chun, Soon Ae (1987).
"SNePSimplementation f possessive phrases.
"SNeRG technical note 19, SUNY BuffaloDepartment of Computer Science.Cohen, Robin (1987).
"Analyzing thestructure of argumentative discourse.
"Computational Linguistics 13, 11-24.Cohn, Dorrit (1978).
Transparent Minds:Narrative Modes for RepresentingConsciousness in Fiction.
PrincetonUniversity Press.Computational Linguistics, Special Issue onTense and Aspect.
1988, 14(2).Computational Linguistics, Special Issue onUser Modeling.
1988, 14(3).Dole~el, Lubomir (1973).
Narrative Modes inCzech Literature.
University of TorontoPress.Dyer, Michael G. (1983).
In-DepthUnderstanding: A Computer Model ofIntegrated Processing for NarrativeComprehension.
MIT Press.Ehrlich, Susan (1987).
"Aspect,foregrounding and point of view."
Text7(4), 363-376.Ehrlich, Susan (1990).
"Referential linkingand the interpretation f tense."
Journal ofPragmatics 14, 57-75.Fauconnier, Gilles (1985).
Mental Spaces:Aspects of Meaning Construction in NaturalLanguage.
MIT Press.Fillmore, Charles (1968).
"The case for case.
"In Universals in Linguistic Theory, edited byE.
Bach and R. T. Harms, 1-90.
Holt.Fillmore, Charles (1974).
"Pragmatics andthe description of discourse."
In BerkeleyStudies in Syntax and Semantics I, edited byCharles Fillmore, George Lakoff, andRobin Lakoff, V1-V21.
University ofCalifornia Department of Linguistics andInstitute of Human Learning.Fillmore, Charles (1975).
Santa Cruz Lectureson Deixis.
Indiana University LinguisticsClub.Galbraith, Mary (1990).
Subjectivity in theNovel.
Ph.D. dissertation, SUNY BuffaloDepartment of English.Grosz, Barbara J., and Sidner, Candace L.(1986).
"Attention, intentions, and thestructure of discourse."
ComputationalLinguistics 12(3), 175-204.Grosz, Barbara J.; Joshi, Aravind K; andWeinstein, Scott (1983).
"Providing aunified account of definite noun phrasesin discourse."
In Proceedings, 21st AnnualMeeting of the Association for ComputationalLinguistics.
44-50.Hamburger, Kate (1973).
The Logic ofLiterature, translated by M. J. Rose.Indiana University Press.Hirst, Graeme (1987).
Semantic Interpretationand the Resolution of Ambiguity.
CambridgeUniversity Press.Jespersen, Otto (1924).
The Philosophy ofGrammar.
George Allen & Unwin.Kuroda, S.-Y.
(1973).
"Where epistemology,style and grammar meet: A case studyfrom the Japanese."
In A Festschrift forMorris Halle, edited by P. Kiparsky andS.
Anderson, 377-391.
Holt, Rinehart &Winston.Kuroda, S.-Y.
(1976).
"Reflections on thefoundations of narrative theory--from a268Janyce M. Wiebe Tracking Point of View in Narrativelinguistic point of view."
In Pragmatics ofLanguage and Literature, edited byT.
A. van Dijk, 107-140.
North-Holland.Li, Naicong (1987).
"Pronoun resolution inSNePS."
SNeRG technical note 18, SUNYBuffalo Department of Computer Science.Li, Naicong (1991).
Perspective-takingMandarin discourse.
Doctoral dissertation,SUNY Buffalo.Lyons, John (1977).
Semantics, vol.
2.Cambridge University Press.Nakhimovsky, Alexander (1988).
"Aspect,aspectual class, and the temporalstructure of narrative."
ComputationalLinguistics 14(2), 29-43.Nakhimovsky, Alexander, and Rapaport,William J.
(1988).
"Discontinuities innarratives."
In Proceedings, 12thInternational Conference on ComputationalLinguistics.
465-470.New York Times (16 Sept 1990).
AIDS inAfrica: A killer rages on, by Eric Eckholm.Peters, Sandra L., and Shapiro, Stuart C.(1987a).
"A representation for naturalcategory systems."
In Proceedings, 9thAnnual Conference ofthe Cognitive ScienceSociety.
379-390.Peters, Sandra L., and Shapiro, Stuart C.(1987b).
"A representation fornaturalcategorysystems."
In Proceedings, lOthInternational Joint Conference on ArtificialIntelligence.
140-146.Peters, Sandra L.; Shapiro, Stuart C.; andRapaport, William J.
(1988).
"Flexiblenatural language processing and roschiancategory theory."
In Proceedings, lOthAnnual Conference ofthe Cognitive ScienceSociety.
125-131.Quirk, Randolph; Greenbaum, Sidney;Leech, Geoffrey; and Svartvik, Jan (1985).A Comprehensive Grammar of the EnglishLanguage.
Longman.Rapaport, William J.
(1986).
"Logicalfoundations for belief representation.
"Cognitive Science 10, 371-422.Rapaport, William J.; Segal, Erwin M.;Shapiro, Stuart C.; Zubin, David A.;Bruder, Gail A.; Duchan, Judith E;Almeida, Michael J.; Daniels, Joyce H.;Galbraith, Mary; Wiebe, Janyce M.; andYuhan, Albert H. (1989a).
"Deictic centersand the cognitive structure of narrativecomprehension."
Technical report 89-01,SUNY Buffalo Department of ComputerScience.Rapaport, William J.; Segal, Erwin M.;Shapiro, Stuart C.; Zubin, David A.;Bruder, Gail A.; Duchan, Judith F.; andMark, David M. (1989b).
"Cognitive andcomputer systems for understandingnarrative text."
Technical report 89-07,SUNY Buffalo Department of ComputerScience.Reichenbach, Hans (1947).
Elements ofSymbolic Logic.
Macmillan.Reichman, Rachel (1985).
Getting Computersto Talk Like You and Me.
MIT Press.Reiser, Brian J.
(1981).
"Character t ackingand the understanding of narratives.
InProceedings, 7th International Joint Conferenceon Artificial Intelligence, vol.
1.
209-211.Shapiro, Stuart C. (1979).
"The SNePSsemantic network processing system."
InAssociative Networks, edited byN.
V. Findler, 179-203.
Academic.Shapiro, Stuart C. (1982).
"Generalizedaugmented transition etwork grammarsfor generation from semantic networks.
"American Journal of ComputationalLinguistics 8, 12-25.Shapiro, Stuart C., and Rapaport, William J.(1987).
"SNePS considered as a fullyintensional propositional semanticnetwork."
In The Knowledge Frontier,edited by N. Cercone and G. McCalla,262-315.
Springer-Verlag.Sidner, Candace L. (1983).
"Focusing in thecomprehension f definite anaphora."
InComputational Models of Discourse, editedby Michael Brady and Robert Berwick,267-330.
MIT Press.Stark, Heather A.
(1987).
Keeping track ofcharacters in narrative.
Doctoraldissertation, Department of Psychology,Stanford University.Stark, Heather A.
(1988).
"What doparagraph markings do?"
DiscourseProcesses 11, 275-303.Uspensky, Boris (1973).
A Poetics ofComposition.
University of CaliforniaPress.Webber, Bonnie L. (1983).
"So what can wetalk about now?"
In Computational Modelsof Discourse, edited by Michael Brady andRobert Berwick, 331-371.
MIT Press.Wiebe, Janyce M. (1990).
Recognizingsubjective sentences: A computationalinvestigation ofnarrative text.
Doctoraldissertation, SUNY Buffalo Department ofComputer Science.
Also published asTechnical report 90-03.Wiebe, Janyce M. (1991).
"References innarrative text."
No~s (Special Issue onCognitive Science and AI) 25(4), 457-486.Wiebe, Janyce M., and Rapaport, William J.(1988).
"A computational theory ofperspective and reference in narrative."
InProceedings, 26th Annual Meeting of theAssociation for Computational Linguistics.131-138.Wilensky, Robert (1983).
Planning andUnderstanding.
Addison-Wesley.269Computational Linguistics Volume 20, Number 2Wilks, Yorick, and Bien, Janusz (1983).
"Beliefs, points of view, and multipleenvironments."
Cognitive Science 7, 95-119.Texts CitedAdler, Carole S. (1987).
The Magic of the Glits.Macmillan.Bridgers, Sue Ellen (1979).
All Together Now.Knopf.Caldwell, Taylor (1966).
No One Hears ButHim.
Doubleday.Gibson, William (1988).
Mona Lisa Overdrive.Bantam.UEngle, Madeleine (1986).
Many Waters.Dell Publishing.Lorimer, Janet (1987).
The Mystery of theMissing Treasure: Scholastic.McMurtry, Larry (1985).
Lonesome Dove.Simon & Schuster.Oneal, Zibby (1971).
War Work.
Viking Press.Sachs, Marilyn (1966).
Amy and Laura.Doubleday.Wootf, Virginia (1972).
The Years.
HogarthPress.Wu, William (1987).
Cyborg.
Ace Books.270Janyce M. Wiebe Tracking Point of View in NarrativeAppendix  A: The Algor i thmA.1 IntroductionThe following aspects of the algorithm as it is presented in Wiebe (1990) are notaddressed in this paper or included in the version of the algorithm given below....4...In addition to the state-of-affairs types listed in Section 6.3.1, there is anadditional one, a seeming state.
For example, "The man seemed tired toJohn" is about a seeming state.
Such states are treated as private states.The types of constituents, mentioned in Section 6.3.3, in whichprivate-state rms are not considered by the algorithm when choosing astate of affairs to consider.
The example given in Section 6.3.3 was amanner adverbial.Objective private-state sentences (see footnote 4).When the SC cannot be identified when the sentence appears,identifying it after later sentences are processed (in Section 8.2.4).A listing of all of the potential subjective lement categories (Section 9.2)and the text situations with which each is associated (Section 9.3).A listing of all of the subjective lements that are not considered whenthey appear in private-state sentences (Section 10).This appendix is organized as follows.
The preprocessing functions and operations ontheir ranges are specified in section A.2; intermediate-level functions are given in A.3;and the high-level functions are given in A.4.Function names are given in capital letters; parameter and variable names aregiven in italics; and comments are preceded by percent signs.
The type of result re-turned by a function is given in the function heading following a colon.
Preconditionsare preceded by Given.Only specifications are given for the functions in A.2.
These consist of precondi-tions, preceded by Given, and a specification of the result, preceded by Returns.A.2 Preprocessing Functions?
Funct ion Item and type-predicates on input items.ITEM(t, i): input itemReturns: The input item at position i in text t.SENTENCE(item): BooleanReturns: true iff input item item is a sentence.PARAGRAPH-BREAK(item): BooleanReturns: true iff input item item is a paragraph break.SCENE-BREAK(item): BooleanReturns: true iff input item item is a scene break.?
Funct ion Features and operat ions on feature sets.FEATURE(S): feature setReturns: The feature set for sentence s.271Computational Linguistics Volume 20, Number 2Following are the operations on feature sets, however they may be implemented.?
Item (1) of Section 6.1.POTENTIAL-SUBJECTIVE-ELEMENTS(featureSet): s t of potential subjective lementsReturns: the set of potential subjective lements in featureSet.TYPE-OF-PSE(pse, featureSet): potential subjective lement ype (e.g., habitual,comparative-'like')Given: pse E POTENTIAL-SUBJECTWE-ELEMENTS(featureSet)Returns: The type of potential subjective lement hat pse is.?
Item (2) of Section 6.1.CLAUSES (featureSet): set of clausesReturns: the set of clauses in ffeatureSet.SUBORDINATING-CLAUSES(clause, featureSet): set of clausesGiven: clause E Clauses (featureSet)Returns: The set of clauses to which clause is syntactically subordinated.STATES-OF-AFFAIRS (featureSet): set of states of affairsReturns: the set of states of affairs in featureSet.TYPE-OF-SOA (soa, featureSet): one of private-state-action, action, private-state,nonprivate-stateGiven: soa E STATES-OF-AFFAIRS(featureSet)Returns: The type of state of affairs that soa is.SOA-OF-CLAUSE (clause, featureSet): state of affairsGiven: clause E CLAUSES(featureSet)Returns: The state of affairs that clause is about?
Item (3) of Section 6.1.
These are the only functions that access information about thehead noun of the subject of the main clause.
A feature set must contain an indicationas to whether or not this noun is about a private state, and, if this indication is true,the feature set must contain the state of affairs that this noun is about.
But if thisindication is false, even if the noun is about another kind of state of affairs, the featureset need not contain that state of affairs.SO Ahn-IS-ABOUT-A-PRIVATE-STATE(featureSet ) : BooleanReturns: True iff the head noun of the subject of the main clause is about a privatestate.SOAhn(featureSet): state of affairsReturns: if SOAhn-IS-ABOUT-A-PRIVATE-STATE(featureSet), then returns themember of STATES-OF-AFFAIRS (featureSet) hat the head noun of the subjectof the main clause is about.
Otherwise, returns nil.?
Item (4) in Section 6.1.EXPERIENCER-OR-ACTOR-OF (soa, featureSet): set of charactersReturns: {}, if soa ~ STATES-OF-AFFAIRS(featureSet).272Janyce M. Wiebe Tracking Point of View in NarrativeOtherwise, returns the experiencer or actor of soa (possibly the empty set).?
I tem (5) in Section 6.1.NARRATIVE-PARENTHETICAL (featureSet): BooleanReturns: true iff the sentence contains a narrative parenthetical.SUBJECT-OF-NARRATIVE-PARENTHETICAL(.featureSet): setof charactersGiven: NARRATIVE-PARENTHETICAL ~featureSet)Returns: The subject of the narrative parenthetical in the sentence.?
I tem (6) in Section 6.1.IS-IN-THE-SIMPLE-P AST( clause, featureSet ): BooleanThis is a pattern for other functions used by ACTIVE-CHARACTER-OF in A.4.Given: clause E Clauses (featureSet)Returns: True iff the main verb phrase of clause is in the simple past.IS-PSE-SUBORDINATED-TO-SOA (pse, soa, featureSet): BooleanGiven: pse E POTENTIAL-SUBJECTIVE-ELEMENTS ~featureSet) and soa ESTATES-OF-AFFAIRSIfeatureSet )Returns: False, if soa = SOAhn(featureSet).
Otherwise, let clause be the clause inCLAUSES(featureSet) such that SOA-OF-CLAUSE(clause, featureSet) = soa, andlet l be the lexical item(s) according to which it was determinedthat clause is about soa.
Then, returns true iff pse is syntacticallysubordinated to I.A.3 Intermediate-Level FunctionsThese functions are used in many of the higher-level ones given in A.4.?
Context-Access Functions.Recall the context-access functions LAST-SC-OF, LAST-ACTIVE-CHARACTER-OF, PREVIOUS-SCS-OF, and TEXT-SITUATION-OF, introduced in Section 6.2.
Only the first is given here;the others are the obvious similar ones.LAST-SC-OF(context = IlastSC, lastActiveCharacter, p eviousSCs, textSituation} ):set of charactersreturn lastSC?
Function To-Be-Treated-As-A-Private-State.TO-BE-TREATED-AS-A-PRlVATE-STATE(SOa, featureSet, context): BooleanGiven: soa E STATES-OF-AFFAIRS(featureSet) and TYPE-OF-SOA(soa,featureSet) =private-state-actionreturn true iff EXPERIENCER-OR-ACTOR-OF(soa,featureSet) CPREVIOUS-SCs-OF(context)?
Function Chosen-State-Of-Affairs and auxiliary functions.CHOSEN-STATE-OF-AFFAIRS~featureSet, context): state of affairs% Let s be the sentence such that FEATURES(S) = featureSet.
Then,% CHOSEN-STATE-OF-AFFAIRS(featureSet) is the state of affairs that% the algorithm will consider for s.273Computational Linguistics Volume 20, Number 2% The specification in Section 6.3.3 does not mention private-state actions% because they are not discussed until the end of the paper.
However, they areincluded here.SOamain ~ SO A-OF-CLA USE(MAIN-CLA USE(featureSet ), featureSet )if1 (TYPE-OF-SOA(SOamain, featureSet) = private-state) or2:(a) ((TYPE-OF-SOA(SOamain, featureSet) = private-state-action) and(b) (TO-BE-TREATED-AS-A-PRIVATE-STATE(SOamain, fe tureSet, context))) thenre turn  SOamainelse if SOAhn-Is-About-A-Private-State(featureSet) thenreturn SOAhn (featureSet)else if CANDIDATE-SUBORDINATED-CLAUSES(featureSet, context) ~ { } thenreturnSOA-OF-CLAUSE(ONE-OF ( CANDID ATE-SUBORDINATED-CLA USES( featureSet ,context)), featureSet)else return SOamainend ifMAIN-CLAUSE (featureSet): clausereturn the clause c such that c E CLAUSES(featureSet) and Subordinating-Clauses(c, featureSet) = {}.CANDIDATE-SUBORDINATED-CLAUSES (featureSet, context): set of clausesreturn the set of all c such that1 (c c CLAUSES (featureSet)) and2 (c # MAIN-CLAUSE (featureSet)) and4:(a) ((TYPE-OF-SOA (SOA-OF-CLAUSE(c, featureSet),featureSet) = private-state)or(b):(i) ((TYPE-OF-SOA (SOA-OF-CLAUSE (c, featureSet), featureSet) =private-state-action) and(ii) (TO-BE-TREATED-AS-A-PRIVATE-STATE(SOA-OF-CLAUSE (c, featureSet), featureSet, context)))) and5: there does not exist a c' such that(c' c CLAUSES(featureSet)) and(TYPE-OF-SOA (SOA-OF-CLAUSE (c', featureSet), featureSet) C{private-state, private-state-action}) and(C' E SUBORDINATING-CLAUSES (C, featureSet))A.4 High-Level FunctionsTRACK-POV (a procedure)% Interpretations and contexts are defined in Section 6.i~1context ~-- ({}, {}, {}, presubjective-nonactive/loopif ~SENTENCE (ITEM (text, i)) thencontext ~ NEW-CONTEXT' (ITEM(text, i), context)elseinterpretation ~-- PO V (FEATURES(ITEM( text,i) ),context)274Janyce M. Wiebe Tracking Point of View in Narrativecontext ~- NEW-CONTEXT(interpretation, context)end ifi~ i+ lend loopNEW-CONTEXT(interpretation = (value, character),context = (lastSC, lastActiveCharacter, previousSCs, textSituationl ): contextif value = subjective thenISCnew ~-- characterpSCne w ~ character U previousSCslaCnew ~-- lastActiveCharactertSnew ~ continuing-subjectiveelseif character # {} thenlacnew ~-- characterelselaCnew ~ lastActiveCharacterend if\]SCnew ~ lastSCpSC ne w ~ previousSCsif character # {} and textSituation = presubjective-nonactive thentSnew ~- presubjective-activeelse if character ~ (} and textSituation C {postsubjective-nonactive, broken-subjective} thentSnew ~ postsubjective-activeelse if character = {} and textSituation = broken-subjective thentSnew ~-- postsubjective-nonactiveelse if textSituation = continuing-subjective thentSn~w ~ interrupted-subjectiveelse tSnew ~-- textSituationend ifend ifreturn ( ISCnew, lacnew, pSCne w, tSnew)NEW-CONTEXT /(break,context = (lastSC, lastActiveCharacter, previousSCsif break = scene-break thentSnew ~-- presubjective-nonactiveelse if textSituation -- presubjective-active th ntSnew ~ presubjective-nonactiveelse if textSituation = continuing-subjective th ntSnew ~- broken-subjectiveelse if textSituation = interrupted-subjective th ntSne w ~ postsubjective-nonactiveelse if textSituation = postsubjective-active th ntSnew ~-- postsubjective-nonactiveelse tSnew +-- textSituationend ifreturn (lastSC, lastActiveCharacter, previousSCs, ts,~ew)textSituationl ): context275Computational Linguistics Volume 20, Number 2POV (featureSet, context): Interpretationif SENTENCE-IS-SUBJECTIVE ~featureSet, context) thenreturn / subjective, IDENTIFY-SC (featureSet, context) Ielsereturn / objective, ACTIVE-CHARACTER-OF (featureSet, context) Iend ifSENTENCE-IS-SUBJECTIVEIfeatureSet, context): Booleansoa ~-- CHOSEN-STATE-OF-AFFAIRS(featureSet, con ext)return1 (NARRATIVE-PARENTHETICAL(featureSet)) or2 (SUBJECTIVE-ELEMENTS(featureSet, context) # {})) or3 (TYpE-OF-SOA(soa, featureSet) =private-state) or4:(a) ((TYPE-OF-SOA(soa, ffeatureSet) = private-state-action) a d(b) (TO-BE-TREATED-AS-A-PRIVATE-STATE(soa, featureSet, context)) or5:(a) ((TYPE-OF-SOA(soa, featureSet) =nonprivate-state) and(b) (TEXT-SITUATION-OF(context) = continuing-subjective))SUBJECTIVE-ELEMENTS~eatureSet, context): set of potential subjective lements% As specified in Section A.1, the potential subjective lement categories and the% text situations with which they are associated are not listed in this paper.return{pse \[ pse E POTENTIAL-SUBJECTIVE-ELEMENTS (featureSet) andpse is associated with TEXT-SITUATION-OF(context)}elseelseelseendIDENTIFY-SC ~featureSet, context): set of charactersif IDENTIFY-SC-FROM-THE-SENTENCE (featureSet~ context) ~ {} thenreturn IDENTIFY-SC-FROM-THE-SENTENCE (featureSet, context)else if LAST-SC-IS-AN-EXPECTED-SC (context) andLAST-ACTIVE-CHARACTER-IS-AN-EXPECTED-SC (context) thenreturn CHOOSE-AN-EXPECTED-SC (featureSet~ context)if LAST-SC-IS-AN-EXPECTED-SC (context) thenreturn LAST-SC-OF( context)if LAST-ACTIVE-CHARACTER-IS-AN-EXPECTED-SC (context) thenreturn LAST-ACTIVE-CHARACTER-OF(context)return {}ifIDENTIFY-SC-FROM-THE-SENTENCE (featureSet, context): set of characterssoa ~ CHOSEN-STATE-OF-AFFAIRS (featureSet, context)if NARRATIVE-PARENTHETICAL~featureSet) th nreturn SUBJECT-OF-NARRATIVE-PARENTHETICAL(featureSet)else if1 (EXPERIENCER-OR-ACTOR-OF(soa,featureSet) # {}) and2 (SUBJECTIVE-ELEMENTS-TO-CONSIDER(soa, featureSet, context) = {}) and3:(a) ((TYPE-OF-SOA(soa,featureSet) = private-state) or276Janyce M. Wiebe Tracking Point of View in Narrative4:(b):(i) ((TYPE-OF-SOA(soa, featureSet) =private-state-action) a d(ii) (TO-BE-TREATED-AS-A-PRIVATE-STATE(soa, featureSet, context)))) and(a) ((TEXT-SITUATION-OF(context) ~ continuing-subjective) or(b):(i) ((TEXT-SITUATION-OF(context) = continuing-subjective) and(ii):(1) ( (EXPERIENCER-OR-ACTOR-OF(soa) C LAST-SC-OF(context) or(2) (EXPERIENCER-OR-ACTOR-OF(soa) D LAST-SC-OF(context) ) ) )then return EXPER1ENCER-OR-ACTOR-OF(soa )else return {}end ifLAST-SC-IS-AN-EXPECTED-SC(context): BooleanIf TEXT-SITUATION-OF(context) ~ {presubjective-nonactive, pr subjective-active} thenreturn trueelse return falseLAST-ACTIVE-CHARACTER-IS-AN-EXPECTED-SC(context): BooleanIf TEXT-SITUATION-OF(context) E {presubjective-active, postsubjective-active} thenreturn trueelse return falseend ifCHOOSE-AN-EXPECTED-SC(featureSet, con ext): set of charactersif EXPERIENCER-OR-A CTOR-OF( CHOSEN-STA TE-OF-AFFAIRS(featureSet ), f atureSet )= LAST-ACTIVE-CHARACTER-OF(context) thenreturn LaST-SC-OF(context)elsereturn LAST-ACTIVE-CHARACTER-OF (context)end ifSUBJECTWE-ELEMENTS-TO-CONSIDER(soa, featureSet, context): set of potentialsubjective lementsreturn{pse I pse E SUBJECTIVE-ELEMENTS (featureSet, context) andIS-PSE-SUBORDINATED-TO-SOA(pse, soa, featureSet) andTYPE-OF-PSE(pse, featureSet){habitual, comparative-'like', 'as'-followed-by-modifier, some kindsof intensifier adverbs.}
}% See Section 10 and item (6) of A.1.ACTIVE-CHARACTER-OF (featureSet, context): set of characterssoa ~ CHOSEN-STATE-OF-AFFAIRS(featureSet, con ext)if (TYPE-OF-SOA(soa, featureSet) =action) and(EXPERIENCER-OR-ACTOR-OF(soa, fe tureSet) _C_ Previous-SCs-Of (context)) and(IS-IN-THE-SIMPLE-PAST(CLAUSE-OF(soa, fe tureSet), featureSet) ) and% the remaining conjuncts of this conditional are in English, so as not to list many% obvious functions.
IS-IN-THE-SIMPLE-PAST is a model for the ones implied by theEnglish statements.
(The main verb phrase is not negated, is not habitual, and does not contain amodal auxiliary verb or adverb such as those listed in Section 8.2.2)277Computational Linguistics Volume 20, Number 2then return EXPERIENCER-OR-ACTOR-OF(soa,featureSet)else return {}end ifAppendix B: Implementation and DemonstrationsImplementationThe algorithm has been implemented in two systems.
Both implement functions POV,NEw-CONTEXT, and NEW-CONTEXT', and neither implements function ITEM.
The systemdemonstrated here takes actual sentences a input, so has a component for performingfunction FEATURES.
However, it does not truly implement FEATURES, but is successfulin computing the FeatureSet of a sentence only for sentences that fall within its limitedcoverage.
It requires many actual sentences of a text to be simplified.The other version of the system queries the user for the information returned byfunction FEATURES, to enable the algorithm to be tested on unlimited text, withoutconcern for problems not addressed in this work.Both systems are implemented using the SNePS knowledge representation a dreasoning system (Shapiro 1979; Shapiro and Rapaport 1987) and an ATN grammar(Shapiro 1982).
The grammar of the system demonstrated here is an extension ofothers developed at the State University of New York at Buffalo, and includeS pieces ofprograms written by Soon Ae Chun (Chun 1987), Zuzana Dobes, Naicong Li (Li 1987),Sandra Peters (Peters and Shapiro 1987a, 1987b; Peters, Shapiro, and Rapaport 1988),William J. Rapaport (Rapaport 1986), and Stuart C. Shapiro (Shapiro 1982; Shapiro andRapaport 1987).DemonstrationsIn the following, input to the system is preceded by a colon, comments are precededby percent signs, and all other lines are the system's output.
To save space, extraneousmessages have been deleted, such as those concerned with entering and exiting thesystem.
Sentences of quoted speech are input simply as 'Quoted_speech' followed bya discourse parenthetical, since the algorithm does not consider the contents of thequoted string.The system is first demonstrated on the following passage; when the passage isen-countered in the novel, the situation is postsubjecfive-nonactive and the last subjectivecharacter is Sandy and Dennys.Japheth looked at Sandy and Dennys anxiously.
"Sun-sickness canbe dangerous."
He reached up to touch Dennys's cheek.
Shook hishead.
"You're cold and clammy.
Bad sign."
He put his hand againsthis forehead.
Appeared to be thinking deeply.
\[UEngle, Many Waters,p.
241: Initialize situation to postsubj-nonactive.The situation is now postsubj-nonactive: Initialize last_subj_char to Sandy and Dennys.Dennys and Sandy is the last_subj_char% The situation and last subjective character arefirst initialized.
: Japheth looked at Sandy and Dennys anxiously.At the beginning of this sentence:278Janyce M. Wiebe Tracking Point of View in NarrativeThe situation is postsubj-nonactiveExpected subjective character:Dennys and Sandy, the last_subjcharPerc action of Japheth treated as an action: Actor has not been thesubjcharThe sentence is not subjectiveThe situation is still postsubj-nonactive% The s~te ofaffai~ that the algorithm considers ~ the perceptual ction (~erc-action')%thatthe main clauseisabout, a kind ofprivate-stateaction.% Note that even though "anxiously" is a private-state t rm, it isn't considered% by the system because it is being used as a manner adverbial.
: Quoted speech Japheth said.At the beginning of this sentence:The situation is postsubj-nonactiveExpected subjective character:Dennys and Sandy, the last subj charThe sentence is not subjectiveThe situation is still postsubj-nonactive: He reached up to touch Dennys's cheek.At the beginning of this sentence:The situation is postsubj-nonactiveExpected subjective character:Dennys and Sandy, the last subj_charThe sentence is not subjectiveThe situation is still postsubj-nonactive: Shook his head.At the beginning of this sentence:The situation is postsubj-nonactiveExpected subjective character:Dennys and Sandy, the last subj charPotential subjective element considered:sentence_fragmentIt is a subjective elementSubjective context established by this feature:sentence_fragmentThe subj_char is Dennys and SandyThe situation is now continuing-subj% Th~ utterance ~ a sentence fragment, apotentml su~ective lement.
In the situat~n% in which it appea~ (postsu~ective-nonactive), t is a subjective lement.
: Quoted_speech he said.At the beginning of this sentence:The situation is continuing-subjExpected subjective character:Dennys and Sandy, the last_subj_charThe sentence is not subjectiveObjective sentence in continuing-subj situation:279Computational Linguistics Volume 20, Number 2situation is now interrupted-subj: He put his hand against his forehead.At the beginning of this sentence:The situation is interrupted-subjExpected subjective character:Dennys and Sandy, the last subj charThe sentence is not subjectiveThe situation is still interrupted-subj: Appeared to be thinking deeply.At the beginning of this sentence:The situation is interrupted-subjExpected subjective character:Dennys and Sandy, the last subj_charPotential subjective elements considered:sentence fragmentprogressiveseeming verbOf these, the following are subjective elements:sentence_fragmentseeming_verbSubjective context established by these features:sentence_fragmentseeming verbThe subj char is Dennys and SandyThe situation is now continuing-subj% Even though the sentence ~ a private-state sentence that is not in the% continuing-su~ective situation, the system ident~es the su~ective% character to be the last su~ective characteG because non-subordinated% su~ective elements appear (note that the prog~ssive aspect is not a% su~ective element in this situation).The next demonstration is on a slightly simplified version of (25.2)-(25.3).
(Whenit is encountered, the last subjective character is the girl.
)How could the poor thing have married him?Johnnie Martin could not believe that he was seeing that old bag'sblack eyes sparkling with disgust.
: Initialize situation to continuing-subj.The situation is now continuing-sub3: Initialize last_subj char to the girl.the girl is the last subj char: How could the poor thing have married him?At the beginning of this sentence:The situation is continuing-subjExpected subjective character:the girl, the last subj_char280Janyce M. Wiebe Tracking Point of View in NarrativePotential subjective elements considered:questionpast_perfectiveeval_adjectiveAll of these are subjective elementsSubjective context continued by these features:questioneval adjectivepast_perfectiveThe subj_char is the girlThe situation is still continuing-subj% The systems abb~v~tionfor anevaluative adjective is ~val~djective'.% The evaluative adjective in th~ sentence is Moor'.
: Paragraph.Before the paragraph break:The situation is continuing-subjExpected subjective character:the girl, the last_subj_charAfter the paragraph break:The situation is broken-subjThe last_subjchar is still an expected subjective character%'Paragraph'indicatesthata paragraph b~akoccu~ atth~ point.
: Johnnie Martin could not believe that he was seeing the old bag's blackeyes sparkling with disgust.At the beginning of this sentence:The situation is broken-subjExpected subjective character:the girl, the last subj charPotential subjective elements not considered:percept_termattitude_nounSubjective context established by this feature:private_state of Idohnnie MartiniThe subj_char is IJohnnie MartinlThe situation is now continuing-subj% The system does not consider the perceptual term ('sparkling') or the attitude noun% ('old bag9 because they are subordinated tothe private-state rm.In the following passage, competition arises that is resolved in favor of the lastsubjective character:Newt had always missed having a father, but the fact that Seanspoke so coldly of his put the matter in a different light.
Perhaps hewas not so unlucky, after all.He was riding around the herd when Jake Spoon trotted past onhis way to Lonesome Dove.
"Going to town, Jake?"
Newt asked.
"Yes, I think I will," Jake said.
He didn't stop to pass the time; ina second, he was out of sight in the shadows.
It made Newt's spirits281Computational Linguistics Volume 20, Number 2fall a little, for Jake had seldom said two words to him since he cameback.
\[McMurtry, Lonesome Dove, p. 200\]The system wi l l  be demonstrated ona slightly modified version of the critical part ofthis passage (Newt is the last subjective character at the beginning):Newt was riding around the herd when Jake Spoon went by onhis way to Lonesome Dove.
"Going to town, Jake?"
Newt asked.
"Yes, I think I will," Jake said.
He didn't stop to pass the time.
Ina second he was out of sight in the shadows.
: Previous_subj_char Jake.Jake has been the subj_char%Fi~t, thesystem hasto beinformedthatJakehasbeen thesubjectivecharacten: Initialize situation to broken-sub3.The situation is now broken-subj: Initialize last_subj_char Newt.Newt is the last_subj_char: Newt was riding around the herd when Jake went by on his way toLonesome Dove.At the beginning of this sentence:The situation is broken-subjExpected subjective character:Newt, the last subj charPotential subjective element considered:progressiveIt is not a subjective elementNewt is the active_char of this sentenceThe sentence is not subjectiveSentence with an active char in broken-subj situation:situation is now postsubj-active% The prog~ssive aspect is a su~ective element on~ in the continuing-su~ective situation.
: Paragraph.Before the paragraph break:The situation is postsubj-activeExpected subjective characters:Newt, the last subj charNewt, the last_active_charAfter the paragraph break:The situation is postsubj-nonactiveThe last_active_char is no longer an expected subjective characterThe last_subj_char is still an expected subjective character: Ouoted_speech Newt asked.At the beginning of this sentence:282Janyce M. Wiebe Tracking Point of View in NarrativeThe situation is postsubj-nonactiveExpected subjective character:Newt, the last subj charNewt is the active_char of this sentenceThe sentence is not subjectiveSentence with an active_char in postsubj-nonactive situation:situation is now postsubj-active: Paragraph.Before the paragraph break:The situation is postsubj-activeExpected subjective characters:Newt, the last_subj_charNewt, the last_active_charAfter the paragraph break:The situation is postsubj-nonactiveThe last active_char is no longer an expected subjective characterThe last_subj_char is still an expected subjective character: Quoted_speech Jake said.At the beginning of this sentence:The situation is postsubj-nonactiveExpected subjective character:Newt, the last_subj charJake is the active_char of this sentenceThe sentence is not subjectiveSentence with an active_char in postsubj-nonactive situation:situation is now postsubj-active: He did not stop to pass the time.At the beginning of this sentence:The situation is postsubj-activeExpected subjective characters:Newt, the last subj charJake, the last active_charThe sentence is not subjectiveThe situation is still postsubj-active: In a second he was out of sight in the shadows.At the beginning of this sentence:The situation is postsubj-activeExpected subjective characters:Newt, the last subj charJake, the last_active_charPotential subjective element considered:percepttermIt is a subjective elementCompetition between the last_subjchar and the last_active_charChoosing the last subj_char because the sentence is about thelast_active_charSubjective context established by this feature:283Computational Linguistics Volume 20, Number 2percepttermThe subj_char is NewtThe situation is now continuing-subj% The pe~ept erm in this sentence ~ "sight'.Appendix C: A Test of the AlgorithmC.1 IntroductionTo give an idea of the success rate of the algorithm, this appendix presents the resultsof a test of the algorithm on 450 sentential input items (exclusive of paragraph andscene breaks) from each of two novels, Lonesome Dove by Larry McMurtry and TheMagic of the Glits by Carole S. Adler.
Lonesome Dove is an adult novel that has manysubjective characters, and The Magic of the Glits is a childrens' novel that has one mainsubjective character.
The input items are those of the complete sentences of every fifthpage of these novels, starting in Lonesome Dove with page 176 and ending with page236 (13 pages total), and starting in The Magic of the Glits with page 1 and ending withpage 86 (18 pages total).
(For each book, the first part of an additional page was usedto make the number of input items exactly equal to 450.)
Page 176 in Lonesome Doveis the beginning of a chapter in the middle of the novel.
The reason I started in themiddle of the novel is that earlier pages were considered uring the development ofthe algorithm.The system used in this study implements only POV, NEW-CONTEXT, and NEW-CONTEXT'.
The results of ITEM and FEATURES are supplied by me.
What is being testedin this study is POV--NEW-CONTEXT and NEW-CONTEXT' are not in question, sincetheir mappings follow from the definitions of an interpretation and of a context andits components.
What POV is judged against is function H, which is based on myjudgements.
It maps a sentence into the correct interpretation of the sentence:H : sentence ~ interpretation.Sometimes, either a subjective or objective interpretation of a sentence would be rea-sonable.
For these sentences, I accept he algorithm's interpretation--assuming thats is such a sentence, and c is the context in which s appears, I take H(s) to bePOV(FEATURES(S), C).
There are fewer than 20 such sentences in the passages fromLonesome Dove and fewer than 30 in the passages from The Magic of the Glits.
Onegoal of our current and planned psychological experiments i to identify the types ofsituations in which there are significant individual differences among subjects' inter-pretations.We will also distinguish between primary and secondary errors, primary errors beingthe more severe.
The algorithm's interpretation of a sentence is a primary error when itsinterpretation is incorrect given the actual context of the sentence, which is computedfrom the correct interpretations of all previous entences.
A secondary error is one thatresults only from previous errors.
In this case, the algorithm's interpretation is correctgiven the actual context, but incorrect given the context computed by the algorithm.The definition of the context computed by the algorithm is given in Section 6.2; thedefinition of the actual context of the i th input item, aci, is the same, except hat Htakes the place of POV:aci :({}, {}, {}, presubjecfive-nonactive>NEW-CONTEXT'(ITEM (t, i -- 1), ci-1)NEW-CONTEXT(H(ITEM (t, i -- 1)), aci-1)i f /=  1if i > 1 & ~SENTENCE (ITEM (t, i -- 1))if i > 1 & SENTENCE (ITEM (t, i-- 1))284Janyce M. Wiebe Tracking Point of View in NarrativeTable 4Results for Lonesome Dove by interpretation.Interpretation Actual Instances Primary Errors Incorrect Interpretations(subjective,x / 271/450 (60%) 20/271 (7%) 13 objective7 (subjective,y),  # xobjective 179/450 (40%) 7/179 (4%) 7 (subjective,x /objective, other than 54/450 (12%) 7/54 (13%) 7 (subjective,x)simple quoted speechTable 5Results for Lonesome Dove by point-of-view operation.Point-of-View Actual Instances Primary Errors Incorrect InterpretationsOperationcontinuation 215/450 (48%) 11/215 (5%) 1 initiation10 objectiveresumption 20/450 (4%) 0/20 (0%) --initiation 36/450 (8%) 9/36 (25%) 5 resumptions1 initiation3 objectiveobjective 179/450 (40%) 7/179 (4%) 4 continuations3 resumptionsobjective, other than 54/450 (12%) 7/54 (13%) 4 continuationssimple quoted speech 3 resumptionsC.2 ResultsLonesome Dove.
We now present he results of the study, beginning with LonesomeDove.
Out of the 450 input items, the algorithm committed 27 primary errors (6%) and28 secondary errors (6%).
We will first give a breakdown of the primary errors accord-ing to interpretation in Table 4, and then one according to point-of-view operation inTable 5.
Note that many of the input items, 125 of them (28%), are simple items ofquoted speech (i.e., they do not have potential subjective lements in the discourseparenthetical, or subordinated clauses outside the quoted string that have private-stateterms, private-state-action terms, or potential subjective lements).Consider Table 4.
The first row, for example, should be understood as follows: outof the 271 actual subjective sentences, the algorithm committed 20 primary errors.
Itinterpreted 13 subjective sentences to be objective, and 7 to be the subjective sentenceof the wrong subjective character.Now consider Table 5.
The first row, for example, should be understood as follows:out of the 215 items that actually continue a character's point of view, the algorithmcommitted 11 primary errors.
It interpreted 1 of them to be an initiation and 10 to beobjective.
Notice that the last column of the row for initiations includes an initiation.This means that for one actual initiation, the algorithm was correct hat a character'spoint of view was initiated, but incorrect as to the identity of that character.285Computational Linguistics Volume 20, Number 2Table 6Results for The Magic of the Glits by interpretation.Interpretation Actual Instances Primary Errors Incorrect Interpretations(subjective,x / 125/450 (28%) 12/125 (10%) 10 objective2 (subjective,y/,  # xobjective 325/450 (72%) 22/325 (7%) 22 (subjective,x)objective, other than 97/450 (22%) 22/97 (23%) 22 (subjective,x)simple quoted speechTable 7Results for The Magic of the Glits by point-of-view operation.Point-of-View Actual Instances Primary Errors Incorrect InterpretationsOperationcontinuation 79/450 (18%) 4/79 (5%) 4 objectiveresumption 41/450 (9%) 7/41 (17%) 2 initiations5 objectiveinitiation 5/450 (1%) 1/5 (20%) 1 objectiveobjective 325/450 (72%) 22/325 (7%) 4 continuations9 resumptions9 initiationsobjective, other than 97/450 (22%) 22/97 (23%) 4 continuationssimple quoted speech 9 resumptions9 initiationsThe Magic of the Glits.
In The Magic of the Glits, out of the 450 input items, thealgorithm committed 34 primary errors (8%) and 21 secondary errors (5%).
There are228 items that are simple quoted speech (51%).
Tables 6 and 7 present he kinds ofresults for this novel that were given above in Tables 4 and 5 for Lonesome Dove.A particular weakness of the algorithm on novels such as The Magic of the Glits isresponsible for a number of the primary errors given in the last two rows of Tables 6and 7.
The salient feature of the novel is that it has two main characters, Jeremyand Lynette, but primarily takes the psychological point of view only of Jeremy.
Theproblem with the algorithm is that very minor subjective contexts of Lynette affect heinterpretations of later sentences about her private-state actions--they are treated asprivate-state s ntences, while they should be treated as action sentences.When a novel primarily takes an external view of a character (Uspensky 1973),descriptions ofbehavior, quoted speech, and private-state-action se tences are the pri-mary means employed to communicate hings about his or her consciousness.
How-ever, if a character appears often enough, some reports of that character's privatestates are bound to appear to explain his or her actions.
According to the algorithmas presented in this paper, once a character is the SC of any subjective sentence, alllater private-state actions of that character are treated as private states rather than asactions (see Section 11).
As suggested in Wiebe (1990), however, this criterion is tooweak--what should be required for a private-state action to be treated as a private286Janyce M. Wiebe Tracking Point of View in NarrativeTable 8Revised results for The Magic of the Glits by point-of-view operation.Point-of-View Actual Instances Primary Errors Incorrect InterpretationsOperationcontinuation 79/450 (18%) 4/79 (5%) 4 objectiveresumption 41/450 (9%) 7/41 (17%) 2 initiations5 objectiveinitiation 5/450 (1%) 1/5 (20%) 1 objectiveobjective 325/450 (72%) 10/325 (3%) 1 continuation9 resumptionsobjective, other than 97/450 (22%) 10/97 (10%) 1 continuationsimple quoted speech 9 resumptionsstate is that there be a previous ubjective context of the actor that is "significant.
"Some possible, but perhaps arbitrary, definitions of a "significant" subjective contextare that it contain a represented thought, that it contain a potential subjective lementthat is indeed subjective, or that it be at least two input items in length.
The onlyreason that one of these heuristics has not been incorporated into the algorithm is thatan examination of texts broad enough to choose among them (or to suggest another)has not yet been performed.
For The Magic of the Glits, any such heuristic would suffice.In the entire novel (not only in the passages tested), there are a total of 10 subjectivesentences attributed to Lynette.
All are private-state r ports, none has a subjectiveelement, and no two of them appear together.
In addition, 5 of them include somedescription of Lynette's behavior, and, of the remaining 5, 4 are the subjective sentenceof Jeremy and Lynette together, not of Lynette alone.
If one of the above heuristicswere employed, then there would be 12 fewer primary errors and 14 fewer secondaryerrors.
Whether or not one of these heuristics is employed oes not affect he resultsgiven above for Lonesome Dove.Assuming one of the above heuristics, the results for The Magic of the Glits would beas follows.
Out of the 450 input items, the algorithm would commit 22 primary errors(5%) and 7 secondary errors (2%).
Table 8 shows the primary errors broken downaccording to point-of-view operation, assuming that one of the heuristics discussedabove is employed.
Notice that the differences between Tables 7 and 8 appear in thelast two rows.287
