Commentary  on  Lowe and MazaudonJohn Hewson 1(Memorial University of Newfoundland)What Lowe and Mazaudon have done in this article is demonstrate hat, by intelligentexploitation of a simple strategy, computerized methods may be used in protolanguagereconstruction for any group of languages.
This streamlining enables us to complete,in a matter of months, work that often occupied a scholar's lifetime.The simple strategy can be stated in a single sentence (Hewson 1993:iv): "From thedata of the daughter languages generate all possible protoforms, then sort alphabet-ically, and examine all sets of identical protoforms collocated by the sort."
When weused this strategy in the reconstruction of Proto-Algonkian we were fortunate to bedealing with polysyllabic words.
By eliminating the vowels and using the consonantframeworks of these words, we bypassed all problems of segmentation: the consonantsand consonant clusters remaining were the segments used to generate, by means ofthe known reflexes, all of the possible protoforms.Lowe and Mazaudon show how this strategy can be used for a language withmonosyllables and tones, vastly different ypologically from Algonkian.
Here a strat-egy had to be devised for dealing with the various possibilities of segmentation.
Suchtechnical adjustments are required for every language family: for IE, for example, pro-gramming would need to accommodate ablaut, or strip inflections.
They have alsostreamlined the decision-making process.
The linguist is presented at one and thesame time with all the different possibilities of reconstruction (see their Figure 3), sothat the secondary and tertiary alternatives can very quickly be deleted.
In our casea preliminary reconstruction was often based on two cognates, before a preferable re-construction with three or more cognates appeared further down in the listings.
Theirengine is like a Rolls Royce when compared to our Model T experimentations i  the1970s, when printout was still restricted to uppercase l tters.It is not surprising that polysyllabic Algonkian words generate on average over20 proto-projections.
Most of these would be singletons, and thus filtered out by thesort, which separates the gold nuggets from the tailings.
Because of the complexitiesof segmentation, the Tamang monosyllables also generate large numbers of proto-projections.
This fact points directly to the main challenge of the comparative method:it requires finding needles in haystacks, work for which the computer is the machinepar excellence.With programs like RE it is now feasible to do the massive amount of low-levelreconstruction that needs to be done for the world's language families.
The data ofthe new protolanguage dictionaries may then be compared to create a further, deeperstage of reconstruction: we can compare Proto-Algonkian with Proto-Siouan and Proto-Iroquoian, for example (or Proto-Germanic with Proto-Slavic, etc).
This work shouldproduce a surer insight into prehistory than the long-range guesswork (which, al-though limited, has its usefulness) that goes on at the moment.ReferencesHewson, J.
(1993).
A Computer-GeneratedDictionary of Proto-Algonquian.
Ottawa:Canadian Museum of Civilization.1 Memorial University of Newfoundland, Department of Linguistics, St. John's NF, Canada AIB 3X9.419
