RAFT/RAPR and Centering: AComparison and Discussion of ProblemsRelated to Processing Complex SentencesLinda Z. Suri*Educational Testing ServiceKathleen F. McCoy tUniversity of Delaware1.
IntroductionSeveral researchers have noted the local coherence exhibited by discourse (Sidner 1979;Grosz, Joshi, and Weinstein 1983; Carter 1987; etc.).
A primary component of this localcoherence is the way the local focus of the discourse shifts from one sentence to the nextand the way this shifting is marked by linguistic hoices made by the writer/speaker.By local focus, we refer to that concept a sentence is most centrally about within thediscourse context in which it occurs.
This is sometimes called the topic or center.A local focusing framework typically consists of focus-tracking algorithms andalgorithms for suggesting referents for pronouns.
Such a framework can be used inconjunction with an inferencing mechanism to resolve pronouns (and other anaphora)in a Natural Language Understanding system.
The focusing framework suggests areferent for a pronoun, and the inferencing mechanism then confirms or rejects thesuggested referent on the basis of semantic factors, i.e., semantics, world knowledge, tc.The focusing framework is useful because it only requires an inferencing mechanismto confirm a co-specification rather than requiring an inferencing to find the referentindependently.To date, there have been two major frameworks for tracking the local focus fromone sentence to the next and for using focus during pronoun resolution.
The firstframework, Focusing, was introduced by Sidner (1979).
In this squib, we will describeour framework, Revised Algorithms for Focus Tracking and Revised Algorithms forPronoun Resolution (RAFT/RAPR), which is based on Sidner's work.
RAFT/RAPRcan be characterized asmaintaining two foci for a sentence: the subject focus and thecurrent focus, which very often have distinct contents.
RAFT/RAPR maintains a set ofdata structures, and uses rules (which take grammatical roles into account) for pronounresolution and computing the foci.
Taken together, these rules describe how focus can(and is most likely to) shift from one sentence to the next.
Note that focus trackingand pronoun resolution are mutually dependent processes: focus tracking is necessaryfor pronoun resolution, and pronoun resolution, in turn, affects focus tracking.
* Educational Testing Service, Mail Stop 10-R, Rosedale Road, Princeton, NJ 08541.
E-mail:lsuri@rosedale.org.t Dept.
of Computer and Information Sciences, 103 Smith Hall, University ofDelaware, Newark, DE19716.
E-mail: mccoy@udel.edu.
(~) 1994 Association for Computational LinguisticsComputational Linguistics Volume 20, Number 2Subsequent toSidner's work, Grosz, Joshi, and Weinstein (1983) introduced center-ing to account for the same phenomena ddressed by Sidner's algorithm.
1 Centeringattempted to simplify processing by keeping fewer data structures than Sidner's frame-work did.
In particular, the centering literature claims that, rather than two foci, onlyone focus is needed, termed the backward-looking center (Cb).
Pronoun resolution withinthe centering framework is largely based on an ordering of preferred focus (centering)moves.Other research on discourse (e.g., Grosz 1981; Grosz and Sidner 1986; Reichman1978) has studied another phenomenon, the global focus of discourse.
The term globalfocus generally refers to the entity or set of entities that are relevant o or salient in theoverall discourse; the identification of global focus typically interacts with the identifi-cation of discourse segments.
Global focus and discourse segmentation are distinct fromthe phenomenon of local focusing that is addressed in this paper.
However, we shouldpoint out that the centering literature has noted that centering "... is intended to oper-ate within a \[discourse\[ segment" (Walker 1989, p. 253).
In our work on RAFT/RAPRwe do not restrict he domain of the algorithms to within a discourse segment.Given that multiple frameworks for focus tracking and pronoun resolution haveemerged, we would like to do a comparison to see how the frameworks are the sameand how they differ.
Previous assessments and comparisons of local focusing frame-works have relied on comparing how frameworks process a small number of con-structed discourses, but this kind of comparison is inadequate.
Instead the questionthat must be answered is which framework performs best on naturally occurring text.However, such a comparison is not possible at this point because no framework hasfully specified how to handle complex sentences ( ee Suri \[1993\] for the details of thisargument).In light of this, we propose a comparison of RAFT/RAPR and centering along twolines.
First, it is instructive to take a careful ook at how the frameworks handle certainkinds of constructed iscourses involving simple sentences.
This comparison provesuseful for understanding why the frameworks uggest he referents that they do.
Itis interesting to note that, while the methodologies used in RAFT/RAPR and center-ing are quite different from one another, the frameworks very often have the samepreferences for pronoun resolution for text that is not discourse-initial (nor discourse-segment-initial) and that involves only simple sentences.
Despite this similarity, wepoint out places where the two frameworks differ.
A major difference between center-ing and RAFT/RAPR is that while RAFT/RAPR stacks old focus information, center-ing keeps information about he previous entence only.
We show why this is problem-atic for centering.
We point out other differences that arise because centering keeps onefocus and does not take the grammatical roles of pronouns and potential antecedentsinto account during pronoun resolution.
This difference is evident in the examplesdiscussed in this paper involving discourse-initial text, and even in an example dis-cussed in this paper that (we believe) does not involve a discourse segment boundary.Note that because the centering literature claims that centering should operate onlywithin a discourse segment, and because this claim is used to explain some otherwiseproblematic ases of pronoun use, not being able to adequately handle discourse seg-1 Notice that we use the term focusing to cover all local focusing frameworks, Sidner's focusingframework (Sidner 1979), Carter's extensions to Sidner's framework (Carter 1987), the centeringframework (Grosz, Joshi, and Weinstein 1983 and others), our framework (RAFT/RAPR), PUNDIT(Dahl \[1986\] and others), etc.
We use uppercase ("Focusing," or "Local Focusing"), or "Sidner'sFocusing Algorithm/Framework" to refer to Sidner's work.
We use RAFT/RAPR to refer to our work.302Linda Z. Suri and Kathleen F. McCoy RAFT/RAPR and Centeringment initial text is much more of a problem for the centering frameworks than mayat first be apparent.While the observations we make in this first comparison are intriguing, it wouldbe inappropriate to assess and compare the frameworks only on the basis of a handfulof constructed texts.
However, in order to do a corpus analysis to compare focusingframeworks one must be able to handle many kinds of complex sentences.
Thus, wedeveloped a methodology for determining how people process a particular kind ofcomplex sentence.
2 Our second line of comparison of frameworks involves studyinghow well each framework can be extended to account for such findings.
Suri (1993)presented preliminary results for processing sentences of the form "SX because SY,"where SX and SY each consist of a single clause.
In this squib, we report some of thosefindings, and discuss extending RAFT/RAPR and centering in light of these findings.In closing, we summarize the abstract similarities and differences between centeringand RAFT/RAPR.2.
Our Focusing and Pronoun Resolution AlgorithmsBelow, we discuss the behavior of our algorithms for simple (i.e., single-clause) sen-tences.
(See Suri \[1993\] for a fuller discussion of our focusing and pronoun resolutionalgorithms, and a discussion of how our algorithms differ from Sidner's.
)2.1 Data StructuresOur algorithms maintain more focusing data structures than centering does, but eachdata structure is motivated by discourse processing needs.
Below are the data struc-tures that RAFT/RAPR uses:?
Current Focus (CF): the item computed to be the local focus of thesentence.?
Potential Focus List (PFL): all NPs other than the CF and SF, orderedaccording to the following: direct object, indirect object, all other NPs insurface order within the clause.?
Subject Focus (SF): the surface subject of the clause, except in certaincases as mentioned later.
(The need for an SF as well as a local focus isdiscussed in Section 4.3.)?
The Potential Subject Focus List (PSFL): all NPs other than the SF andCF, ordered as follows: direct object, indirect object, all other NPs insurface order within the clause.
3?
CF stack, SF stack, PFL stack, PSFL stack.
We stack the foci and foci listsafter each sentence.
(See Section 4.1.
)2.2 Resolving Pronouns (in Simple Sentences)RAFT/RAPR resolves pronouns based on the grammatical role of the pronoun andthe focusing data structures from the previous sentence.
For a nonsubject third person2 Suri (1993) discusses tile issues that one faces in trying to determine how to process complex sentences,and argues why this methodology is better than alternative methodologies.3 Determining whether we truly need both a PFL and PSFL would require acorpus analysis, which isbeyond the capabilities ofthe current echnology, asdiscussed inSuri (1993).
In fact, the motivation formaintaining both a PFL and a PSFL is based on processing complex sentences ( ee Suri 1993).303Computational Linguistics Volume 20, Number 2singular pronoun, our algorithm first proposes the CF (of the last sentence) as the co-specifier, then the SF, then members of the PFL, and then, under preferences yet to bedetermined, the members of the CF stack, SF stack, PFL stack, and PSFL stack.We thus prefer the pronoun to co-refer with the last focus, then the subject focusof the previous entence, then some other NP introduced in the previous sentence,and then elements that have been in focus or mentioned in previous entences.
Eachattempted co-specification may be rejected by a separate inferencing component onthe basis of semantic factors (semantics, world knowledge, etc.)
or based on syntacticconstraints.For a subject hird person singular pronoun, we first try the SF, then the CF, thenmembers of the PSFL, then the stacked elements.2.3 SF and CF Computation (in Simple Sentences)For a there-insertion sentence, the SF is the deep subject of the sentence, but for mostsimple sentence types the SF is the surface subject of the simple sentence.
4Our algorithms compute the CF of the current sentence based on the followinginteracting criteria:...4.Co-specification: Prefer elements that co-specify an element in a focusingdata structure over elements just introduced.
If an element being talkedabout now has been talked about before, it is more likely to be the topic(and thus to continue to be talked about) than something that has justbeen introduced.The type of realization of each element: Prefer NPs realized as pronounsover those realized with full NPs.
A pronoun is more likely to be talkedabout in subsequent text than a full NP (Brown 1983).To appreciate this preference, consider the following.
A pronoun carriesless semantic information than a full NP.
If a writer chose tocommunicate an element using a pronoun, he or she must have believedthat the element was highly focused enough that the reader would nothave difficulty interpreting the pronoun without he extra semanticinformation that would be communicated with a full NP.Which focusing data structure, if any, is co-specified by each NP.In general, we believe a writer/speaker is more likely to keep discussingthe focus than to move the local focus to some other discourse ntity.Thus, we prefer the CF to remain constant from one sentence to the next.We refer to this preference as the focus retention preference.
We also believea writer is more likely to switch focus to an element that was justmentioned in the previous entence than to one that was discussedearlier.
Thus, in sum, we prefer for the CF to co-specify the last CFrather than something on the last PFL or the last SF, and we prefer forthe CF to co-specify something on the last PFL or the last SF rather thana stacked element.Syntax: We prefer for the CF to be a nonsubject rather than a subject,although the CF can be the subject.4 We need to explore how to compute the SF for other sentences that involve pleonastic subjects.304Linda Z. Suri and Kathleen F. McCoy RAFT/RAPR and Centering.Recall that we compute the SF based on subject NPs.
We prefer for theCF and SF to be distinct, and for the SF to be a subject and the CF to bea nonsubject since we believe that it is often the case that there are twoelements that are being focused on, and we believe that a subjectpronoun is more likely to refer back to a subject and a nonsubjectpronoun is more likely to refer back to a nonsubject.
Thus, we want torecord information in the focusing data structures in a manner that willallow us to take the grammatical roles of potential antecedents intoaccount.Syntactic forms and clue words: The use of a particular linguistic form(e.g., a there-insertion structure) or clue words (e.g., "but") alsoinfluences the choice of the local focus.Again, these (abstract) criteria interact in determining the choice of the CE For ex-ample, among nonsubject NPs co-specifying elements of the PFL, we prefer a pronounto a full NP; on the other hand, if the only pronoun is the subject, and it co-specifiesa member of the PFL, and a nonsubject nonpronoun co-specifies the CF, we will notshift the CF to a member of the last PFL.
That is, the CF will remain the same despitethe pronominalization.
Also, we prefer a nonsubject nonpronominal NP co-specifyinga member of the PFL over a subject pronoun co-specifying the CF.2.4 An Example of Pronoun Resolution with RAFT/RAPRThe following example (modified from Brennan, Friedman, and Pollard \[1987\]) illus-trates RAFT/RAPR.Example 1($1) Susan drives a Ferrari.
SF= \[Susan\], CF=\[Ferrari\] (based on surface syntacticpreferences)($2) She drives too fast.
SF= \[Susan\], CF=\[Susan\]($3) Lyn races her on weekends.
SF= \[Lyn\], CF=\[Susan\], PFL=(\[weekends\])($4) She often beats her.For the first sentence, we compute the SF to be the surface subject, \[Susan\], andthe CF to be the direct object, \[a Ferrari\].For $2, we first try to resolve the subject, "She," using SF(S1); since this is notrejected by inferencing with semantic factors and syntactic information, the pronounis resolved to refer to \[Susan\].
SF(S2)= \[Susan\], the surface subject of the sentence.
Sincethe only co-specifier to something previously mentioned is \[Susan\], CF(S2)=\[Susan\] aswell.For $3, we try to resolve the nonsubject pronoun "her" using CF(S2).
Since thisis not rejected by inferencing with semantic factors and syntactic information, thepronoun is resolved to refer to CF(S2), \[Susan\].
We compute SF(S3) to be the surfacesubject, \[Lyn\].
Since \[Susan\] ("her') is the only thing that specifies anything previouslymentioned, CF(S3)=\[Susan\].In ($4), we first try to resolve "She" using the SF and "her" using the CF.
Thisinterpretation is not rejected on the basis of inferencing with semantic factors or syn-tactic information.
Thus, we get the reading "Lyn often beats Susan," which is thesame reading that native speakers of English preferred in an informal poll.305Computational LinguisticsTable 1Centering transitions.Cb(Un)=Cb(Un-1) Cb(Un)#Cb(Un-1)Cb(Un)=Cp(Un) Continue Smooth-ShiftCb(Un)?Cp(Un) Retain (Rough-)ShiftVolume 20, Number 2No-Cb: No element in Un realizes an element of Cf(Un-l).3.
CenteringIn this section, we give a brief introduction to the centering framework.
This frame-work was introduced by Grosz, Joshi, and Weinstein (1983), it has been discussedand/or expanded on in several other works, including Brennan, Friedman, and Pol-lard (1987), Walker (1989, 1993), Kameyama (1986, 1993), Walker, Iida, and Cote (1992),Brennan (1993), Kameyama, Passonneau, and Poesio (1993), Linson (1993), and Hoff-man and Turan (1993).3.1 Computing CentersFor each utterance, centering computes the following (Grosz, Joshi, and Weinstein 1983;Brennan, Friedman, and Pollard 1987; Walker, Iida, and Cote 1992): the backward-lookingcenter (Cb), which is intended to capture that item which ties the current sentence inwith the previous entence in the discourse, and a list of forward-looking centers (Cf),or elements that can potentially be the Cb of the next sentence.
For English, the Cf isordered or ranked by grammatical relations to the main verb (Walker 1989); the orderis "first the subject, object, and object2, followed by other subcategorized functions,and finally adjuncts."
(Brennan, Friedman, and Pollard 1987, p. 156)The first element of the Cf list is the preferred center or (Cp).
As the name implies,the Cp is the element hat is considered most likely to become the Cb of the nextutterance.After the first sentence, the Cb of utterance Un, Cb(Un), is the highest rankedelement of the Cf of the previous utterance, Cf(Un-1), that is realized in the currentutterance.
We will refer to this condition as the Cb constraint.3.2 Resolving PronounsThe centering literature has identified four kinds of transitions between sentences(Walker, Iida, and Cote 1992), where Un is the current utterance, and Un-1 is theprevious utterance.
The transitions are described in Table 1. sCentering has used the following rules.Rule 1"If some element of Cf(Un-1) is realized as a pronoun in Un, then so is Cb(Un).
"(Brennan, Friedman, and Pollard 1987, p. 156).Rule 2Continuing is preferred over retaining, retaining is preferred over smooth-shifting,5 In describing these transitions, we assume the sentence has a subject.306Linda Z. Suri and Kathteen F. McCoy RAFT/RAPR and Centeringand smooth-shifting is preferred over shifting.
(Brennan, Friedman, and Pollard 1987;Walker, Iida, and Cote 1992).In resolving pronouns, the Brennan, Friedman, and Pollard (1987) (and Walker,~ida, and Cote \[1992\]) algorithm uses Rule 1, Rule 2, and the Cb constraint.
Basically, thealgorithm generates all possible co-specifications for pronouns in the current sentenceby generating all possible Cb and Cf pairs for the current sentence (corresponding tovarious co-specifications), and then it filters and ranks these possible co-specifications.Filtering eliminates co-specifications that violate the Cb constraint or Rule 1, and co-specifications involving contraindexing problems.
The ranking of co-specifications isbased on the Rule 2 transition preferences.
In this way, the algorithm proposes co-specifications for pronouns that comply with the constraints and rules of centering,in an order that corresponds to centering's preferences for centering moves.
Noticethat the Cb of the current sentence is computed as a side effect of doing the pronounresolution.3.3 Example 1 with CenteringTo illustrate centering, we look again at Example 1.Example 11) Susan drives a Ferrari.
Cf=(\[Susan\], \[Ferrari\])2) She drives too fast.
Cb= \[Susan\], Cf=(\[Susan\])3) Lyn races her on weekends.
Cb= \[Susan\], Cf=(\[Lyn\], [Susan\])4) She often beats her.According to the Cb constraint, Cb(4)=\[Lyn\], since Lyn is the highest orderedelement of Cf(3).
Thus, if "She" were \[Lyn\] and "her" were \[Susan\], then Cb(4)=\[Lyn\],Cp(4)=\[Lyn\], and this would be a smooth shift.
But, if "She" were \[Susan\] and "her"were \[Lyn\], then Cb(4)=\[Lyn\], Cp(4)=\[Susan\], and this would be a shift.
Thus, centeringprefers the reading "\[Lyn\] often beats \[Susan\]."
Thus, centering and RAFT/RAPRagree on how to resolve these pronouns.4.
Discussion of Some DifferencesAlthough centering and RAFT/RAPR seem to resolve pronouns similarly in manycases, there are some situations where the two algorithms differ.4.1 Stacking Focus InformationA major difference between the two frameworks is that by maintaining stacks of CFsand SFs, RAFT/RAPR allows a writer to pronominally refer to a CF or SF of a sentencebefore the previous one.
Centering, which has no counterpart to our stacks, does not.The stacking of focusing information for RAFT/RAPR (or focusing algorithms ingeneral) is motivated by examples of text in which the referent of a pronoun is morethan one sentence back, and for which there is no indication that there is an interveningdiscourse segment.
Example 2 is such an example.Example 2With a strain, he could see a glimpse of the river to the northwest.
The walls wereSheetrock and bare.
She had picked out some artwork.
He determined that the EgoWall would face the desk, behind the wing chairs.
(Grisham 1991, p. 139).307Computational Linguistics Volume 20, Number 2Note that one might argue that the sentence "She had picked out some artwork"constitutes a discourse segment unto itself marked by the use of the past perfect (notethe simple past is used in other sentences).
6 However, even if this were the case (andthat sentence was ignored in the pronoun resolution), the centering framework wouldstill not appropriately resolve the "He" in the final sentence because there wouldstill be an intervening sentence ("The walls were Sheetrock and bare.")
that does notcontain the antecedent of "He."
We can see no reason why this (other) interveningsentence should be seen as a discourse segment.4.2 Discourse-Initial SentencesRecall that centering bases its pronoun decisions on the type of "centering" transitionsthat would be manifested by various interpretations.
These transitions require that theCb of the previous entence be defined.
As a result, centering can make no predic-tions about pronouns until the third sentence in a discourse (segment).
Consider thefollowing:Example 3la) Lyn races Susan on weekends.2a) She races Jack during the week.Because no Cb is established in la (since la is discourse-initial), centering makesno prediction as to whether the pronoun in 2a should refer to \[Lyn\] or \[Susan\].
Ourpronoun resolution algorithms, predict hat "she" is \[Lyn\], the SF of la.Of course, one way around this problem is for a likely Cb for the first sentenceto be calculated and used in pronoun resolution.
For instance, because subjecthood isvery important in centering, one might ake the subject (or Cp) of a discourse-initial (ordiscourse-segment-initial) sentence as its Cb.
7 This would allow centering to resolvethe referent of "She" for this text correctly.
However, such a decision would causecentering to resolve "her" in 2b below incorrectly:Example 4lb) Lyn races Susan on weekends.2b) Jack races her during the week.An informal poll suggests that native speakers prefer to interpret "her" as referringto \[Susan\].
The problem here is that for centering, if there is a single pronoun in asentence, it becomes the Cb, and centering prefers to resolve the Cb so that it co-referswith the Cb of the previous entence regardless of the grammatical role of the Cb inthe previous entence.
Thus, if centering is to stay within its paradigm which was setup for processing discourse segment internal pronouns, it will resolve a pronoun inone of these two examples inappropriately.
(Notice no semantic or world knowledgeinference could flag the mistake.
)6 We discuss aspectual classification and the possible import for focusing and pronoun resolution in Suri(1993).7 In fact, this is what Brennan, Friedman, and Pollard (1987) appear to do for their examples.308Linda Z. Suri and Kathleen F. McCoy RAFT/RAPR and CenteringOur algorithms consider the grammatical role played by a pronoun and its poten-tial antecedents.
They correctly resolve the pronouns in these examples,4.3 Pronominalization and Grammatical RolesBrennan, Friedman, and Pollard (1987) discuss an ambiguous discourse.
(A modifiedversion is shown in Example 5 below.)
Centering resolves the ambiguous pronoun("She" in 4) one way, and RAFT/RAPR resolves it another way.
This is not particularlyinteresting since the discourse is ambiguous.Example 51) Susan drives a Ferrari.2) She drives too fast.3) Lyn races her on weekends.4) She wins a lot of trophies.
(RAFT/RAPR: She=\[Lyn\], centering: She=\[Susan\])What is more interesting is that if "her" in 3 is replaced by a full NP, then readersdo have a strong preference for the pronoun to be resolved with \[Lyn\].Example 61) Susan drives a Ferrari.SF=\[Susan\], CF=\[Ferrari\];2) She drives too fast.SF=\[Susan\], CF=\[Susan\];3) Lyn races Susan on weekends.SF=\[Lyn\], CF=\[Susan\];4) She wins a lot of trophies.
(RAFT/RAPR: "She'=\[Lyn\]; centering: "She'=\[Susan\])Cf=(\[Susan\], \[Ferrari\])Cb=\[Susan\], Cf=(\[Susan\])Cb=\[Susan\], Cf=(\[Lyn\], [Susan\])Notice that RAFT/RAPR computes the "She" in 4 to be \[Lyn\] since it prefers toresolve subject pronouns to be the SF of the previous sentence.
This interpretationagrees with native speaker preferences for this text.
On the other hand, centeringcomputes the Cb in 3 to be \[Susan\[ and as a result it will prefer that "She" is \[Susan\]in 4 (by preferring a continue transition).
Thus, centering's prediction does not agreewith native speakers' preferences for this text.The problem for centering may be viewed as resulting from the fact that if asentence, Un, has only one pronoun, then centering (Brennan, Friedman, and Pollard1987) makes that element the Cb(Un) (assuming it co-specifies something in Cf(Un-1)),and centering prefers to resolve pronouns o that Cb(Un)=Cb(Un-1) regardless of thegrammatical roles that Cb(Un-1) played in Un-1.Because our algorithms track two foci and consider the grammatical roles of apronoun and its possible antecedents during pronoun resolution (by preferring the8 Working within centering, Kameyama (1986) proposes preferences based on grammatical roles inresolving pronouns incertain situations.
However, she does not address the discourse-initial problems.Also, Brennan, Friedman, and Pollard (1987) claim Kameyama's proposed rule falls out of theirtransition preferences, but whether this is true in all contexts i  not immediately evident.309Computational Linguistics Volume 20, Number 2SF to the CF when resolving a subject, and the CF over the SF when resolving anonsubject), we prefer for "She" to be \[Lyn\], the SF of 3.
9One way around this example is for centering to claim that 3 actually starts a newdiscourse segment.
TM However, recall that centering is intended to operate within adiscourse segment and discourse-segment-initial processing is problematic for center-ing (see Section 4.2).
Thus, more work would still be required to enable centering tohandle pronouns in Example 6 and the identical discourse with the fourth sentencereplaced by "Jack races her during the week.
"4.4 What Is the Import of the Above Analysis?Two observations should be made at this point.
First, it is very difficult to identifythe focus of a discourse-initial sentence, and neither framework is likely to process alldiscourse-initial text correctly.
This in itself is not terribly problematic, since discourse-initial text is relatively rare (since there is only one discourse-initial sentence for eachnaturally occurring text), u The problem for centering is compounded, however, sincecentering is intended to work within a discourse segment.
This means that all discourse-segment-initial text will be problematic.
The proportion of discourse-segment-initial textis much larger.
This fact is much more evident if one notes that presumably all caseswhere a stack is needed by RAFT/RAPR (see Section 4.1) are cases where a centeringtheorist would need to argue for an intervening discourse segment.Second, the reader should observe that we have pointed out a potential problemfor centering by citing two examples(Examples 3 and 4) that could not both be han-dled by centering.
This is clearly insufficient.
In fact, while RAFT/RAPR does handleboth of these examples appropriately, there is no doubt that one could come up witha discourse-initial example where RAFT/RAPR would have difficulty.
12 The questionthat must be addressed is which framework would correctly process the most naturallyoccurring discourse-initial texts.
Likewise, in Section 4.3 we showed that RAFT/RAPRcould appropriately handle a non-discourse-initial text, which centering could not.But, again, the question we would want to address is which framework would cor-rectly process the most naturally occurring non-discourse-initial texts.
The intent of theabove analysis was to point out differences in the abstract/underlying preferences ofthe two frameworks, and how those differences manifest hemselves during pronounresolution.
In particular, RAFT/RAPR's abstract/underlying preference for consider-ing both the grammatical role of a pronoun and the grammatical roles of its potentialantecedents is not shared by centering.5.
Extensions for Handling Complex SentencesWhile we have shown several problematic cases for centering for discourses involvingconstructed iscourses consisting of simple sentences, clearly such a comparison is9 Note that the tracking of two foci is important in order to correctly handle this text and Example 5 withsentence 4 changed to "Jack races her during the week.
"10 In fact, that "Susan" is not pronominalized in $3 does seem to signal a shift in subject focus from\[Susan\] to \[Lyn\].
But whether this would constitute a new discourse segment is unclear.
Furthermore,to rely on the claim that this is a new discourse segment, centering would need to better specify howto identify the start of a new discourse segment, and to better specify how to handle discourse-initialand discourse-segment-initial text.11 Furthermore, it is a bit odd to speak of the focus or foci (e.g., CF and SF) of a discourse-initial sentence,since it is usually difficult for a reader to determine what the topic of a discourse-initial sentence isfrom the discourse-initial sentence alone.12 In particular, we think that there are likely to be texts that do not involve the kind of "parallel verbstructures" of "NP1 races NP2 ..." exhibited in the examples discussed above for which centeringwould predict he correct referent, but RAFT/RAPR would not.310Linda Z. Suri and Kathleen F. McCoy RAFT/RAPR and Centeringinadequate.
A better comparison of the the two frameworks might be based on a largecorpora analysis to determine which framework gets the correct pronoun resolutionmore often and by suggesting the fewest number of referents on average.
There area number of problems one faces when trying to do a corpora analysis.
One problemis that pronoun resolution is affected not only by focusing information, but also bysemantic factors.
In order to identify which framework best captures the pronounresolution preferences speakers have based solely on the type of information intended tobe captured by focusing frameworks, we would need to control for how often semanticfactors are affecting pronoun resolution.In this squib, we are concerned with another, perhaps more interesting, prob-lem that precludes undertaking a corpora analysis: although complex sentences areprevalent in written English, neither framework has explicitly specified how to han-dle complex sentences.
13 In fact, some previous research andled complex sentencesin an inconsistent manner (Sidner 1979; Linson 1993).
Other research made claims thatwere not accurate because it did not acknowledge the need to specify how to processcomplex sentences.
In particular, centering literature (Grosz, Joshi, and Weinstein 1983)questioned Sidner's use of an Actor Focus using text that involved complex sentences.Suri (1992) argued that the reason Sidner's algorithms could not handle that text wasnot because they used two foci, but because a method for processing of complex sentenceswas not speci~ed.The central question is whether one should process a complex sentence as mul-tiple sentences or as a single sentence.
For instance, should the clauses of a complexsentence be processed in linear order, updating the focusing (e.g., RAFT/RAPR orcentering) data structures as if one were processing a linear sequence of simple sen-tences?
Or, is some other order more appropriate?
More specifically, 1) How do youresolve pronouns within a complex sentence?
Do you prefer to resolve a pronoun in anoninitial clause with elements from the previous clause (or the matrix clause) or withelements from the previous entence?
2)How do you resolve pronouns in a subsequentsentence?
In other words, how should one update focusing (e.g., RAFT/RAPR or cen-tering) data structures after a complex sentence?
Answers must be provided based onthe kinds of syntactic structures (e.g., sentential verb complements, conjunctions) usedin the sentence.
Answers might also depend on other things, such as whether a verbis subject-control or object-control (e.g., processing "NP1 promised NP2 SX" vs. "NP1persuaded NP2 SX').Suri and McCoy (1993) proposed a two-part methodology for determining how toprocess a given kind of complex sentence.
(Suri \[1993\] explains why this methodologyis superior to alternative methodologies.)
Note that a local focusing framework (e.g.,RAFT/RAPR or centering) is intended to capture preferences for pronoun resolutionindependent of world knowledge, semantics, and rhetorical relations.
Thus, the aim ofthe first part of the methodology is to identify how people prefer to resolve pronounsbased on previous pronominalization, focus history, and syntax.
Because it is difficultto create texts where pronoun resolution is not affected by world knowledge, seman-tics, and rhetorical relations, we develop texts that are intentionally semantically slantedfor pronoun interpretation based on world knowledge, semantics, and rhetorical re-lations.
Several semantically slanted texts are created in order to test the effect of thesyntactic form of interest (e.g., "SX because SY') on pronoun resolution within thecomplex sentence, and in a sentence following that kind of complex sentence.
We then13 Suri (1992) identified the need to address this problem, and made some preliminary proposals forparticular sentence types.
Walker (1989) indicated that centering needs to handle multiple subjects, butdid not specify how to do that.311Computational Linguistics Volume 20, Number 2gather judgments about the acceptability of these texts from native English speakers.These judgments uggest hat the readers' preferences are based on syntax, pronomi-nalization, and focusing history.
For example, judgments uggested that readers preferthe subject of the SX clause over the subject of the previous entence when resolvinga subject in the SY clause of an "SX because SY" sentence.
That is, when this hypothe-sized preference agreed with the semantic-slanting of the text, the text was judged acceptable.
Butwhen this hypothesized preference was at odds with the slanting of the text, the text was judgedawkward or ambiguous.
TM We then verify such findings by analyzing the use of anaphors(within and following sentences of the form of interest) in naturally occurring text.5.1 "SX because SY" SentencesBased on our analysis of grammaticality judgments from native speakers of seman-tically slanted discourses involving a simple sentence, an "SX because SY" sentence(Sn), and a simple sentence, we concluded (Suri and McCoy 1993):1.
Readers prefer to resolve Subject(SX) with Subject(Sn_l).2.
Readers prefer to resolve Subject(SY) with Subject(SX) (overSubject(Sn_l)).3.
Readers prefer to resolve Subject(Sn+l) with Subject(SX).Note that these preferences 15 refute an assumption sometimes made by researchersregarding complex sentences: that the clauses of complex sentences can be processedin a linear order.
While our findings indicate that the pronoun resolution within $2 doeshappen linearly, the appropriate contents of the focusing data structures after processing$2 should be much more heavily influenced by the SX clause (and not by the SY clause,as the previous assumption would require).Given these findings, we extended RAFT/RAPR to process entences of the form"SX because SY" as follows:..3.For resolving a Subject(SX) pronoun, first propose SF(Sn-1) as thereferent.For resolving a Subject(SY) pronoun, first propose Subject(SX).Compute the SF of a sentence of the form "SX because SY" to beSubject(SX).These extensions allow RAFT/RAPR to propose antecedents for discourses of thesame form as the discourses judged to be acceptable more efficiently than for dis-courses of the same form as those judged to be awkward.
In this way, the RAFT/RAPRprocessing would "match" native speakers' judgments.5.2 Centering and "SX because SY" SentencesOne must question whether or not the results of our analysis are directly applicable tothe centering framework.
However, we find several problematic ases for centering inprocessing this kind of complex sentence.
First, consider the approach of processing"SX because SY" sentences one clause at a time, linearly, where the centering informa-tion from SY will be used in processing $3.
(Note: this kind of processing for extending14 See Suri and McCoy (1993) or Suri (1993) for a discussion of the methodology.15 Results in Caramazza, Grober, Garvey, and Yates (1977) suggest that perhaps we should considerwhether the verb in the SX clause is an NPl-bias or NP2-bias verb in formulating these preferences.312Linda Z. Suri and Kathleen F. McCoy RAFT/RAPR and CenteringRAFT/RAPR was rejected by our analysis.)
Under this approach, for Example 7, wefind:Example 7$1) Dodge was robbed by an ex-convictthe other night.S2X) The ex-convict tied him up becauseS2Y) he wasn't cooperating.3b) # Then he started screaming for help.Cb=Dodge?
; Cf=Dodge, ex-con, night.Cb=Dodge; Cf=ex-con, Dodge; retain?Cb=Dodge; Cf=Dodge; continue.Cb=Dodge; Cf=Dodge; continue.This text looks highly coherent according to centering, but it was judged to beawkward or ambiguous by native speakers of English in a controlled survey (judg-ments gathered were: 3 acceptable; 23 awkward; 5 ambiguous).
One might concludethat the apparent problem for centering stems from violating the conclusion that thetext should not be processed linearly.
Consider altering centering so that the Cb andCp of $2 is chosen from the SX clause in a manner consistent with the solution forRAFT/RAPR that we outlined above.
Let's look at Example 7 using this modification:Example 7$1) Dodge was robbed by an ex-convictthe other night.$2) The ex-convict tied him up becausehe wasn't cooperating.S3b) # Then he started screaming forhelp.Cb=Dodge?
; Cf=Dodge, ex-con, night.Cb=Dodge; Cf=ex-con, Dodge; retain?Cb=Dodge; Cf=Dodge; continue.Centering would still predict that this text should be highly coherent, althoughthe text was judged awkward or ambiguous by native speakers.
16Furthermore, let'slook at another example:Example 8$1) Dodge was robbed by an ex-convictthe other night.$2) The ex-convict ied him up becausehe wasn't cooperating.S3a) Then he took all the money and ran.Cb=Dodge?
; Cf=Dodge, ex-con, night.Cb=Dodge; Cf--ex-con, Dodge; retain?Cb=ex-con; Cf=ex-con; smooth-shiftThis text would probably also be judged acceptable/coherent by centering usingthis strategy, and it is acceptable to native speakers (judgments gathered were: 29acceptable; 3 awkward).
What is interesting to note is that this example would probablybe considered less acceptable than Example 7, since this example nds in a smooth-shiftwhile the other ends in a continue.5.3 A Possible Centering ExplanationWork by Walker (1993) suggests that sentences beginning with "Now" (which sheassumes mark new discourse segments) are more likely to be followed by a smooth-shift or retain transition rather than by a continue.
While Walker bases her findings16 Note that if one were to try to use centering for natural language generation, centering would(probably) predict that one could pronominalize the subject of $3 in Example 7(since $3 is a continue),while in fact a full NP is required to make the text less awkward/ambiguous.313Computational Linguistics Volume 20, Number 2on a (spoken English) corpora analysis and does not indicate how she processed anycomplex sentence preceding a sentence starting with "Now," her results suggest oneshould study whether sentences starting with "Then" are more likely to be followedby a retain or smooth-shift ( han a continue).
17 If this is found to be the case, then anappropriate corresponding revision of centering's Rule 2 would allow centering, likeRAFT/RAPR, to propose antecedents for discourses of the same form as Example 8,i.e., discourses judged to be acceptable, more efficiently than for discourses of the sameform as Example 7, i.e., those judged to be awkward or ambiguous.
Therefore, furtherstudy of complex sentences and clue words such as "Then" is needed.5.4 Conclusions Regarding "SX because SY" ExtensionsIn sum, we extended RAFT/RAPR to process entences of the form "SX because SY," ina manner that reflected the judgments given by native speakers, by simply specifyinghow to resolve pronouns in this kind of sentence and how to update the focusingdata structures after processing this kind of sentence.
However, there appears to beno similarly straightforward way to extend the existing centering framework to reflectthese judgments.6.
Comparing the Frameworks for Processing Simple SentencesThere are a number of distinctions between RAFT/RAPR and centering that should beexamined.
This discussion assumes the algorithms are being applied to single-clausesentences.
Many of the comments generalize to processing complex sentences.?
RAFT/RAPR maintains two foci: a subject focus and a current focus.Centering maintains one focus, the Cb.
TM?
RAFT/RAPR resolves nonsubject pronouns in a different manner thansubject pronouns, while centering does not.
This results in RAFT/RAPRand centering having different preferences for Example 6 (whereRAFT/RAPR matches native speaker intuitions), for somediscourse-initial texts (see Section 4.2),, and for some ambiguousdiscourses (e.g., Example 5).?
RAFT/RAPR resolves pronouns by searching data structures in an orderbased on several factors, including the importance of grammatical rolesand preferences for focusing movement.
Centering resolves pronouns bygenerating all possible co-specifications and then filtering and rankingthem based on a number of constraints and rules.?
By using Rule 1 to eliminate possible co-specifiers, centering mixes theprocess of pronoun resolution with focus computation.
The RAFT/RAPRapproach resolves pronouns and then updates the focus.
Furthermore,although RAFT/RAPR recognizes pronominalization as a signal of focuswhen computing the CF, it does not apply a rule like centering's Rule I17 Related to this matter, when we gave readers the same discourses discussed earlier with the "Then"deleted from the $3 sentences, the judgments were still supportive of our previous findings, but theywere more divided than for the discourses including the "Then."
This supports the possibility that"Then" may be playing a role in the pronoun resolution for the $3 sentences.
See Suri (1993) for furtherdiscussion.18 However, we note the Cp is very similar to the SF in that both are computed (for English) to be thesurface subject of the sentence (for simple sentences).
In this way, one could argue that centering doestrack two loci, to the same extent hat RAFT/RAPR does.314Linda Z. Suri and Kathleen F. McCoy RAFT/RAPR and Centering.2.3.4.without considering the grammatical roles of anaphors and focusinghistory.Because the abstract preferences underlying the frameworks share much incommon, the approaches very often make the same predictions.RAFT/RAPR's focusing and pronoun resolution algorithms reflect hefollowing underlying abstract preferences:We prefer for the CF to be something that is co-referential withan element mentioned earlier in the discourse.We prefer for the CF to be a pronoun rather than a full definitedescription.We use preferences for resolving pronouns and computing theCF that involve the grammatical role of the pronoun.We prefer for the CF to be the same as the last CF and the SF tobe the same as the last SF.Centering shares the first two of these in common with us.
But, centeringprefers the local focus to stay the same and for the subject o be the localfocus (which is stronger than preference 4).
As noted earlier, we do notapply preference 2 without regard for the grammatical roles of the NPsand which focusing data structures they co-specify.
Furthermore,centering invokes the second preference during pronoun resolution,while we invoke it only after resolving the pronouns.
In addition,centering requires that the focus (Cb) realizes an element in theimmediately preceding sentence, as opposed to merely preferring for thefocus to be something in the immediately preceding sentence butallowing it instead to be co-referential with an element further back inthe preceding text (as RAFT/RAPR does).In sum, the order in which these abstract preferences are applied differsbetween the two frameworks.
Furthermore, as a result of (some)differences between the frameworks with respect o these preferences,resolvhlg a pronoun to have the same grammatical role as its antecedentis less important in centering than it is in RAFT/RAPR (Section 4.3).RAFT/RAPR presents possible referents for pronouns one possibility at atime, and if pragmatic, semantic, and general knowledge inferencingrejects a referent, RAFT/RAPR proposes an alternative.
Centering, on theother hand, (in addition to requiring this same kind of inferencing)sometimes suggests multiple possibilities for the co-specifications ofpronouns in a sentence (Walker 1989).
Is pragmatic inferencing appliedat this point to pick among the possible antecedents?
We assume this tobe the case, otherwise it is not clear how centering will choose amongthe multiple potential referents.
Yet, assuming this is the case, centeringseems to involve more complex inferencing than our approach involves;inferencing for centering must pick which antecedent is better.RAFT/RAPR only asks inferencing to confirm a co-specification.
1919 We do not check for ambiguity ofpronouns inthe same way that Sidner did.
However, even if wewere to incorporate similar checks for ambiguity, such checks would involve using inferencing toconfirm two possible co-specifications for a pronoun, while centering might require the use ofinferencing toconfirm ore than two.
Thus, the inferencing required by RAFT/RAPR would still bemore limited than that required by centering.315Computational Linguistics Volume 20, Number 27.
ConclusionsRAFT/RAPR and centering often make the same predictions for resolving pronouns.One reason for this is that the (abstract) preferences underlying the two frameworksshare much in common.
A major difference between the two approaches is thatRAFT/RAPR keeps two foci, while centering keeps only one.
In addition, RAFT/RAPRhas more of a commitment to resolving pronouns according to grammatical role.In Section 5, we argued that one is able to extend RAFT/RAPR to process entencesof the form "SX because SY," by specifying how to resolve pronouns and how to updateRAFT/RAPR data structures, to match speaker preferences for discourses involvingsentences of that form.
On the other hand, centering could not be extended in a similarmanner.
Recent work (Section 5.3) suggests that centering might be able to matchjudgments by modifying Rule 2; however, the appropriateness of such a modificationrequires further study.We presented examples of discourse-initial texts (Section 4.2) and a non-discourse-initial text (Section 4.3) involving only simple sentences that were problematic forcentering.
A second problem for centering results from not stacking focus information.Although the claims in this paper are based on a limited number of discourses,we noted that it is difficult to perform a corpora analysis to determine which frame-work performs better on average because of the prevalence of complex sentences andthe lack of work on complex sentences in either framework.
Furthermore, determininghow to process particular kinds of complex sentences i a crucial step toward enablingsuch a corpora analysis.
We discussed the results of an analysis of one kind of complexsentence ("SX because SY').
On the basis of this analysis, we extended RAFT/RAPRto handle this kind of complex sentence.
In addition, we showed how the judgmentscollected from native speakers of English as part of this analysis were difficult to ex-plain within the current centering framework.
Furthermore, the findings discussed inthis paper indicate that one cannot evaluate the RAFT/RAPR and centering frame-works by simply applying the algorithms to finite clauses of naturally occurring textin linear order, without taking into account he occurrence of complex sentences andclue words.AcknowledgmentsWe thank Sandee Carberry, John A. Hughes,and Jeff Lidz for their comments andadvice.
We are also very grateful to themany people, too numerous to name here,who provided us with judgments.
Thisresearch was supported in part by NSFGrant #IRI-9010112.ReferencesBrennan, Susan E. (1993).
"Reference andlocal structure in interactive discourse.
"In Proceedings, Workshop on CenteringTheory in Naturally Occurring Discourse,Institute for Research in CognitiveScience, University of Pennsylvania.Brennan, Susan E.; Friedman, Marilyn W.;and Pollard, Carl J.
(1987).
"A centeringapproach to pronouns."
In Proceedings,25th Annual Meeting of the Association forComputational Linguistics, 155-162.Brown, Cheryl (1983).
"Topic continuity inwritten English narrative."
In TopicContinuity in Discourse, edited byT.
Givon, 317-341.
J Benjamins.Caramazza, Alfonso; Grober, Ellen; Garvey,Catherine; and Yates, Jack (1977).
"Comprehension f anaphoric pronouns.
"Journal of Verbal Learning and VerbalBehavior, 16, 601-609.Carter, David (1987).
Interpreting Anaphors inNatural Language Texts.
John Wiley andSons.Dahl, Deborah A.
(1986).
"Focusing andreference resolution in PUNDIT."
InProceedings, 1986 National Conference onArtificial Intelligence, Philadelphia, PA,1083-1088.Grisham, John (1991).
The Firm.
Dell.Grosz, Barbara J.
(1981).
"Focusing anddescription i  natural languagedialogues."
In Elements of DiscourseUnderstanding, edited by A. Joshi,316Linda Z. Suri and Kathleen F. McCoy RAFT/RAPR and CenteringB.
Webber, and I.
Sag, 85-105.
CambridgeUniversity Press.Grosz, Barbara J., and Sidner, Candace L.(1986).
"Attention, intentions, and thestructure of discourse."
ComputationalLinguistics, 12(3), 175-204.Grosz, Barbara J.; Joshi, Aravind K.; andWeinstein, Scott (1983).
"Providing aunified account of definite noun phrasesin discourse."
Ln Proceedings, 21st AnnualMeeting of the Association for ComputationalLinguistics, Cambridge, MA, 44-50.Hoffman, Beryl, and Turan, Omit Deniz(1993).
"Word order and centering inTurkish."
In Proceedings, Workshop onCentering Theory in Naturally OccurringDiscourse, Institute for Research inCognitive Science, University ofPennsylvania.Kameyama, Megumi (1986).
"Aproperty-sharing constraint in centering.
"In Proceedings, 24th Annual Meeting of theAssociation for Computational Linguistics,Cambridge, MA, 200-206.Kameyama, Megumi (1993).
"Intrasententialcentering."
In Proceedings, Workshop onCentering Theory in Naturally OccurringDiscourse, Institute for Research inCognitive Science, University ofPennsylvania.Kameyama, Megumi; Passonneau, Rebecca;and Poesio, Massimo (1993).
"Temporalcentering."
In Proceedings, 31st AnnualMeeting of the Association for ComputationalLinguistics, 70-77.Linson, Brian (1993).
"A distributionalanalysis of discourse transitions."
InProceedings, Workshop on Centering Theory inNaturally Occurring Discourse, Institute forResearch in Cognitive Science, Universityof Pennsylvania.Reichman, Rachel (1978).
"Conversationalcoherency."
Cognitive Science, 2, 283-327.Sidner, Candace L. (1979).
Towards acomputational theory off definite anaphoracomprehension n english discourse.
Doctoraldissertation, MIT.Suri, Linda Z.
(1992).
"Correcting illegal NPomissions using local focus."
InProceedings, 30th Annual Meeting of theAssociation for Computational Linguistics(Student Session), 273-275.Suri, Linda Z.
(1993).
Extending focusingframeworks to process complex sentences andto correct he written English of proJi'cientsigners of American Sign Language.
Doctoraldissertation, University of Delaware.Suri, Linda Z., and McCoy, Kathleen F.(1993).
"Focusing and Pronoun Resolutionin Particular Kinds of ComplexSentences."
In Proceedings, Workshop onCentering Theory in Naturally OccurringDiscourse, Institute for Research inCognitive Science, University ofPennsylvania.Walker, Marilyn A.
(1989).
"Evaluatingdiscourse processing algorithms."
InProceedings, 27th Annual Meeting of theAssociation for Computational Linguistics,251-261.Walker, Marilyn A.
(1993).
"Initial contextsand shifting centers."
In Proceedings,Workshop on Centering Theory in NaturallyOccurring Discourse, Institute for Researchin Cognitive Science, University ofPennsylvania.Walker, M.; Iida, M.; and Cote, S.
(1992).
"Japanese discourse and the process ofcentering."
Technical Report 92-14,Institute for Research in CognitiveScience, The University of Pennsylvania.317
