Commentary  on  Bird and K le inRichard Sproat 1(AT&T Bell Laboratories)As Bird and Klein rightly observe, phonological thinking has lagged behind that insyntax and semantics: the metaphor of underlying representations being transformedvia an ordered set of rules, long abandoned in syntax, is deeply ingrained in phonol-ogy.
The cleanest break with this tradition is represented by declarative phonology, ofwhich the current paper is an instance; indeed, the adoption of an HPSG-style typed-feature formalism makes it clear how much Bird and Klein want phonology to belike syntax.
Now, the HPSG formalism is just that, a formalism.
It neither is a the-ory of phonology per se (the theory consisting in constraints statable in terms of theformalism), nor does it imply anything about the actual implementation, which theyenvision in terms of Bird and Ellison's one-level phonology model: a crucial property ofboth the theory and its implementation is that it be one-level, since this avoids the 'ruleconspiracies' inherent in multi-level models.
Bird and Klein exemplify the approachwith two detailed case studies, which give a good sense of the range of phenomenathat are amenable to a one-level analysis.
At one extreme is Sierra Miwok templaticmorphology, which few phonologists would now analyze using rewrite rules, andwhere a standard autosegmental analysis is already largely declarative.
At the otheris French schwa 'deletion,' which is interesting because the phenomenon seems to re-quire a rewrite rule.
For Bird and Klein, the actual 'deletion' of schwa is handled byallowing schwa to be optional in lexical entries, with its appearance or nonappearancefollowing from general properties of French syllable structure: a declarative one-levelapproach turns out to be more explanatory than a rule-based one.Nonetheless, I still have concerns about one-level phonology.
Consider Xiamentone sandhi (XTS) (Chen 1987).
In an XTS domain, only the domain-final tone sur-faces in its 'underlying' form: all others must change according to a rule whereby, forexample, the tonal sequence 1-2-3-4-5 surfaces as 7-1-2-8-5.
Crucially, there is nothingill-formed about 1-2-3-4-5 as a surface sequence of tones: it could represent (under-lying) 2-3-7-8-5, for example.
It seems that XTS cannot be treated interestingly as asurface constraint, but must be viewed as a conditioned transduction between un-derlying and surface forms.
And consider that multilevel models implemented usingfinite-state transducers are useful not only for describing phonological or orthographicregularities, but also the mapping between orthography and phonology.
So, in a Rus-sian text-to-speech system, one might compute the pronunciation of the orthographicword CTOae (table-Prep.Sg.)
by transducing it to a morphologically annotated repre-sentation (CTOa+6), which includes crucial accentual information; and then computingthe pronunciation (/stalj6/) noting, for instance, that pre-accentual o is /a /  and not/o / .
A multilevel model enables one to readily state relations between what must beviewed as different levels of representation forthe same word.
It remains to be shownhow a one-level approach would work.ReferencesChen, M. (1987).
"The syntax of Xiamen tonesandhi."
Phonology Yearbook, 4 109-149.1 AT&T Bell Laboratories, Room 2d-451, Murray Hill, NJ 07974.
E-mail: rws@research.att.com.493
