Japanese Discourse and the Process ofCenteringMar i lyn  Walker*University of PennsylvaniaSharon  CotesUniversity of PennsylvaniaMasayo  I ida tStanford UniversityThis paper has three aims: (1) to generalize a computational ccount of the discourse processcalled CENTERING, (2) to apply this account o discourse processing in Japanese so that it can beused in computational systems for machine translation or language understanding, and (3) toprovide some insights on the effect of syntactic factors in Japanese on discourse interpretation.
Weargue that while discourse interpretation is an inferential process, syntactic ues constrain thisprocess; we demonstrate his argument with respect o the interpretation of ZEROS, unexpressedarguments of the verb, in Japanese.
The syntactic ues in Japanese discourse that we investigateare the morphological markers for grammatical TOPIC, the postposition wa, as well as those forgrammatical functions uch as SUBJECT, ga, OBJECT, o and OBJECT2, ni.
In addition, we investigatethe role of speaker's EMPATHY, which is the viewpoint from which an event is described.
This issyntactically indicated through the use of verbal compounding, i.e.
the auxiliary use of verbs suchas kureta, kita.
Our results are based on a survey of native speakers of their interpretation ofshort discourses, consisting of minimal pairs, varied by one of the above factors.
We demonstratethat these syntactic ues do indeed affect he interpretation of ZEROS, but that having previouslybeen the TOPIC and being realized as a ZERO also contributes to the salience of a discourse ntity.We propose a discourse rule of ZERO TOPIC ASSIGNMENT, and show that CENTERING providesconstraints on when a ZERO can be interpreted as the ZERO TOPIC.1.
Introduction1.1 Centering in Japanese DiscourseRecently there has been an increasing amount of work in computational linguisticsinvolving the interpretation f anaphoric elements in Japanese (Yoshimoto 1988; Kuno1989; Walker, Iida, and Cote 1990; Nakagawa 1992).
These accounts are intended ascomponents of computational systems for machine translation between Japanese andEnglish or for natural anguage processing in Japanese alone.
This paper has threeaims: (1) to generalize a computational ccount of the discourse process called CEN-TERING (Sidner 1979; Joshi and Weinstein 1981; Grosz, Joshi, and Weinstein 1983; Grosz,Joshi, and Weinstein unpublished), (2) to apply this account o discourse processing* University of Pennsylvania, Computer Science Department, Philadelphia PA 19104.
E-mail:lyn@linc.cis.upenn.edu.t CSLI, Stanford University, Stanford CA 94305.
E-maih iida@csli.stanford.edu.
:~ University of Pennsylvania, Linguistics Department, Philadelphia PA 19104.
E-mail:cote@linc.cis.upenn.edu.
@ 1994 Association for Computational LinguisticsComputational Linguistics Volume 20, Number 2in Japanese so that it can be used in computational systems, and (3) to provide someinsights on the effect of syntactic factors in Japanese on discourse interpretation.In the computational literature, there are two foci for research on the interpretationof anaphoric elements such as pronouns.
The first viewpoint focuses on an inferentialprocess driven by the underlying semantics and relations in the domain (Hobbs 1985a;Hobbs et al 1987; Hobbs and Martin 1987).
A polar focus is to concentrate on the roleof syntactic information such as what was previously the topic or subject (Hobbs1976b; Kameyama 1985; Yoshimoto 1988).
We will argue for an intermediate positionwith respect o the interpretation of ZEROS, unexpressed arguments of the verb, inJapanese.
Our position is that the interpretation f zeros is an inferential process, butthat syntactic information provides constraints on this inferential process (Joshi andKuhn 1979; Joshi and Weinstein 1981).
We will argue that syntactic ues and semanticinterpretation are mutually constraining (Prince 1981b, 1985; Hudson-D'Zmura 1988).The syntactic ues in Japanese discourse that we investigate are the morphologicalmarkers for grammatical TOPIC, the postposition wa, as well as those for grammaticalfunctions uch as SUBJECT, ga, OBJECT, o, and OBJECT2, ni.
In addition, we investigate therole of speaker's EMPATHY, which is the viewpoint from which an event is described.This can be syntactically indicated through the use of verbal compounding, i.e.
theauxiliary use of verbs such as kureta, kita.In addition to the argument that a purely inference-based account does not con-sider limits on processing time, another argument against a purely inference-basedaccount is provided by the minimal pair below.
Here, the only difference is whetherZiroo is the subject or the object in the second utterance.
Note that the interpretationof zeros is indicated in parentheses:Example 1a.
Taroo gab.C.kooen o sanpositeimasita.Taroo SUBJ park in walking-wasTaroo was taking a walk in the park.Ziroo ga 0 hunsui no mae de mitukemasita.Ziroo SUBJ OBJ fountain of front in foundZiroo found (Taroo) in front of the fountain.0 0 kinoo no siai no kekka o kikimasita.SUBJ OBJ yesterday of game of scores OBJ asked(Ziroo) asked (Taroo) the score of yesterday's game.Example 2a.
Taroo gab.C.kooen o sanpositeimasita.Taroo SUBJ park in walking-wasTaroo was taking a walk in the park.0 Ziroo o hunsui no mae de mitukemasita.SUBJ Ziroo OBJ fountain of front in found(Taroo) found Ziroo in front of the fountain.0 0 kinoo no siai no kekka o kikimasita.SUBJ OBJ yesterday of game of scores obj asked(Taroo) asked (Ziroo) the score of yesterday's game.In lb and 2b, the syntactic position in which Ziroo is realized has the effect hat lc194Marilyn Walker et al Japanese Discoursemeans Ziroo asked Taroo the score of yesterday's game, while 2c means Taroo asked Ziroo thescore of yesterday's game.
On the other hand, some purely syntactic accounts require thatantecedents for zeros be realized as the grammatical TOPIC, and thus cannot explainthe above example because Taroo is never explicitly marked as the topic (Yoshimoto1988).In the literature, ZEROS are known as zero pronouns.
We adopt the assumption ofearlier work that the interpretation f zeros in Japanese is analogous to the interpre-tation of overt pronouns in other languages (Kuroda 1965; Martin 1976; Kameyama1985).
Japanese also has overt pronouns, but the use of the overt pronoun is rare in nor-mal speech, and is limited even in written text.
This is mainly because overt pronounslike kare ('he') and kanozyo ('she') were introduced into Japanese in order to translategender-insistent pronouns in foreign languages (Martin 1976).
In this paper, we onlyconsider zeros in subcategorized-for argument positions.
Since Japanese doesn't havesubject or object verb agreement, there is no syntactic indication that a zero is presentin an utterance other than information from subcategorization)First, in Section 1.2 we describe the methodology that we applied in this investi-gation.
In Section 2, we present he theory of centering and some illustrative xam-ples.
Then, in Section 3, we discuss particular aspects of Japanese discourse context,namely grammatical TOPIC and speaker's EMPATHY.
We will show how these can easilybe incorporated into a centering account of Japanese discourse processing, and givea number of examples to illustrate the predictions of the theory.
We also discuss theway in which a discourse center is instantiated in Section 4.In Section 5 we propose a discourse rule of ZERO TOPIC ASSIGNMENT, and use thecentering model to formalize constraints on when a zero may be interpreted as a ZEROTOPIC.
Our account makes a distinction between two notions of TOPIC--grammaticaltopic and zero topic.
The grammatical topic is the wa-marked entity, which is by defaultpredicted to be the most salient discourse ntity in the following discourse.
However,there are cases in which it may not be, depending on whether ZERO TOPIC ASSIGNMENTapplies.
This analysis provides upport for Shibatani's claim that the interpretation fthe topic marker, wa, depends on the discourse context (Shibatani 1990).
ZERO TOPICASSIGNMENT actually predicts ambiguities in Japanese discourse interpretation andprovides amechanism for deriving interpretations that previous accounts claim wouldbe unavailable.We delay the review of related research to Section 6 when we can contrast i withour account.
The two major previous accounts are those of Kuno (Kuno 1972, 1976b,1987, 1989) and Kameyama (Kameyama 1985, 1986, 1988).
Finally, in Section 7, wesummarize our results and suggest topics for future research.1.2 MethodologyMost of the examples in this paper are constructed as four utterance discourses that fitone of a number of structural paradigms.
In all of the paradigms, a discourse ntity is1 When zero pronouns hould be stipulated is still a research issue.
For example, Hasegawa (1984)described a zero pronoun as a phonetically null element in an argument  position.
However, as shownin the following example, Terazu, Yamanasi, and Inada (1980) assumed that zero pronouns are notl imited in their distribution and stipulated them in adjunct positions as well (Iida 1993).Taroo wa Hanako no kaban o mitukemasita.Taroo TOP/SUBJ Hanako GEN bag OBJ foundTaroo found Hanako" s bag.0 0 tanzyoobi no purezento irernasita.birthday GEN present OBJ put(Taroo) put a birthday present (in her bag).195Computational Linguistics Volume 20, Number 2introduced in the first utterance, and established by the second utterance as the CENTER,what the discourse is about.
The manipulations of context occur with the third andthe fourth utterances.
In each case the zero in the third utterance cospecifies the entityalready established as the center in the second utterance.
The fourth utterance consistsof a potentially ambiguous entence containing two zeros.
The variations in contextare as shown below:Third Utterance Fourth UtteranceSUBJECT OBJECT(2) SUBJECT OBJECT(2) EXAMPLESzero NP(o or ni) zero zero 5zero NP(o or ni) zero zero, empathy 36NP(ga) zero zero zero 32, 34NP(wa) zero zero zero 4, 33NP(ga) zero zero zero, empathy 35Thus we are manipulating factors such as whether a discourse ntity is realizedin subject or object position in the third utterance, whether a discourse ntity realizedin subject position is ga-marked or wa-marked in the third utterance, and whether adiscourse ntity realized in the fourth utterance in object position is marked as thelocus of speaker's EMPATHY.We collected a group of about 35 native speakers by solicitation on the InterNet oprovide judgments for most of the examples given in this paper.
These native speakerswere readers of the newsgroups sci.lang.japanese and comp.research.japan.
They werethus typically well-educated, bilingual engineers.
Whenever an example was tested inthis way, we provide the number of informants who chose each possible interpretationto the right of the example.
Some examples that are included for expository reasonswere not tested.Participation i  our survey was completely voluntary, and the data were collectedover three surveys.
Thus the numbers of subjects varied from one survey to another,and this is reflected in the numbers accompanying our examples.
This data collectionwas carried out on written examples using electronic mail in a situation in whichthe informants could take as long as they wanted to decide which interpretation theypreferred.
The instructions sent with the surveys are given in Appendix A.This paradigm clearly cannot provide information on which interpretation a sub-ject might arrive at first and then perhaps change based on other pragmatic factors, andthus it contrasts with reaction time studies.
However, the judgments given should bestable and should reflect he fact that our informants were able to use all the informa-tion in the discourse.
It is a useful paradigm given that we are exploring the correlationof syntactic ues and discourse interpretation.
It has been claimed that syntactic uesare only used in automatic processing and can be overridden by deeper processing.However, Hudson's results suggest hat subjects may judge a discourse sequence tobe nonsensical when it is incoherent according to centering (Hudson-D'Zmura 1988).Di Eugenio claims that discourse sequences in Italian that are not discourse-coher-ent according to centering theory produce a garden-path effect (Di Eugenio 1990).The methods we used allow us to explore the results of these interactions, and yet it196Marilyn Walker et al Japanese Discoursewould be beneficial for these results to be expanded upon by careful psychologicalexperimentation.For most of the examples reported here, we asked subjects to choose one preferredinterpretation instead of allowing them to rank interpretations.
The motivation fordoing this was to force differences to come out for slight preferences, with the theorybeing that other variations would come out across subjects.
In a few cases we allowedsubjects to indicate no preference; these examples will be clearly indicated.In addition, we used the same gender for multiple discourse ntities to prevent anytendency for judgments to be influenced by gender stereotypes.
We also avoided usingverbs with causal biases toward one of their arguments, and we used few cue wordssuch as but, because, and then, which could result in a bias toward, say, a cause-effect ortemporal  sequence of events interpretation.
We also omitted honorific markers, whichare normal ly a part of Japanese ambiguity resolution.
2 This was done to isolate theeffects of the variables that we were exploring in this study, namely topic marking,grammatical  function, empathy, and realization with a zero or with a full noun phrase.2.
Centering TheoryWithin a theory of discourse, CENTERING is a computational model  of the process bywhich conversants coordinate attention in discourse (Grosz, Joshi, and Weinstein un-published).
Centering has its computational foundations in the work of Grosz andSidner (Grosz 1977; Sidner 1979; Grosz and Sidner 1986) and was further developedby Grosz, Joshi, and Weinstein (1983, unpublished) and Joshi and Weinstein (1981).Centering is intended to reflect aspects of ATYENTIONAL STATE in a tripartite view ofdiscourse structure that also includes INTENTIONAL STRUCTURE and LINGUISTIC STRUC-TURE (Grosz and Sidner 1986).
In Grosz and Sidner's theory of discourse structure,discourses can be segmented based on intentional structure, and a discourse segmentexhibits both local and global coherence.
Global coherence depends on how each seg-ment relates to the overall purpose of the discourse; local coherence depends on as-pects such as the syntactic structure of the utterances in that segment, the choice ofreferring expressions, and the use of ellipses.
CENTERING models local coherence andis formalized as a system of constraints and rules.
Our analysis uses an adaptationof the Centering algorithm that was developed by Brennan, Friedman, and Pollard,based on these constraints and rules (Brennan, Friedman, and Pollard 1987; Walker1989).The purpose of centering as part of a computational model  of discourse interpre-tation is to model  ATTENTIONAL STATE in discourse in order to control inference (Joshiand Kuhn 1979; Joshi and Weinstein 1981).
3 Our approach to model ing attentionalstate is to explore aspects of the correlation between syntax and discourse function.This assumes that there are language conventions about discourse salience and thatconversants attempt o maintain a sense of shared context.2 While native speakers understandably found some of these xamples "stilted" or "awkward," theywere still able to give their judgments based on the information that was provided in the discourses.3 Recent work in situation theory proposes to control computation with a similar notion of backgroundinformation i  terms of constants of the situation that thus are not explicitly realized in an utterance(Nakashima 1990).
The situation-theoretic work does not as yet distinguish shared knowledge thatdetermines discourse salience and derives from the discourse context and the way utterances areexpressed (Clark and Haviland 1977; Clark and Marshall 1981; Prince 1981b) from shared knowledgethat is part of general background knowledge such as cultural assumptions (Prince 1978a; Joshi 1982)or shared knowledge that might derive from the task context (Grosz 1977).197Computational Linguistics Volume 20, Number 2Section 2.1 presents the centering rules and constraints.
Sections 2.2 and 2.3 illus-trate the theory and the definitions with a number of examples.
Section 2.4 discussesthe centering algorithm for the resolution of zeros in Japanese.2.1 Rules and ConstraintsThe centering model is very simple.
Each utterance in a discourse segment has twostructures associated with it.
First, each utterance in a discourse has associated with ita set of discourse ntities called FORWARD-LOOKING CENTERS, Cf.
Centers are semanticentities that are part of the discourse model.
Second, there is a special member ofthis set called the BACKWARD-LOOKING CENTER, Cb.
The Cb is the discourse ntity thatthe utterance most centrally concerns, what has been elsewhere called the 'theme'(Reinhart 1981; Horn 1986).
The Cb entity links the current utterance to the previousdiscourse.The set of FORWARD-LOOKING CENTERS, Cf, is ranked according to discourse salience.We will discuss factors that determine the ranking below.
The highest-ranked memberof the set of forward-looking centers is referred to as the PREFERRED CENTER, Cp.
4 ThePREFERRED CENTER represents a prediction about the Cb of the following utterance.Sometimes the Cp will be what the previous egment of discourse was about, the Cb,but this is not necessarily the case.
This distinction between looking back to the previ-ous discourse with the Cb and projecting preferences for interpretation i subsequentdiscourse with the Cp is a key aspect of centering theory.In addition to the structures for centers, Cb and Cf, the theory of centering specifiesa set of rules and constraints.
Constraints are meant o hold strictly whereas rules maysometimes be violated.?
CONSTRAINTSFor each utterance Ui in a discourse segment UI~.. .
~ Um:.2..There is precisely one backward-looking center Cb.Every element of the forward centers list, Cf(Ui), must berealized in Ui.The center, Cb(Ui), is the highest-ranked element of Cf(Ui-Dthat is realized in Ui.
5Constraint (1) says that there is one central discourse ntity that the utterance isabout, and that is the Cb.
The second constraint depends on the definition of realizes.An utterance U realizes a center c if c is an element of the situation described by U,or c is the semantic interpretation of some subpart of U (Grosz, Joshi, and Weinsteinunpublished).
Thus the relation REALIZE describes zeros, explicitly realized discourseentities, and those implicitly realized centers that are entities inferable from the dis-course situation (Prince 1978a, 1981b).A specialization of the relation REALIZE is the relation DIRECTLY REALIZE.
A center isdirectly realized if it corresponds to a phrase in an utterance.
We restrict our focus toentities realized by noun phrases; however, it is clear that propositions can be centers,so we assume that the account given here can be extended to propositional entities aswell (Webber 1978; Sidner 1979; Prince 1986, 1978b; Ward 1985).4 The notion of PREFERRED CENTER corresponds toSidner's notion of EXPECTED FOCUS (Sidner 1983).5 This could possibly be rephrased as: Assume the Cp(Ui-1 is the Cb(Ui) unless there is evidence to thecontrary (Carter 1987).198Marilyn Walker et al Japanese DiscourseAs we discuss further in Section 3, zeros refer to entities that are already in thediscourse context.
The fact that the current utterance REALIZES one or more zerosfollows from information specified in the subcategorization frame of the verb.
Thesearguments must  be interpreted and thus acquire a degree of discourse salience thatnonsubcategorized-for discourse entities lack.Constraint (3) stipulates that the ranking of the forward centers, Cf, determinesfrom among the elements that are realized in the next utterance, which of them willbe the Cb for that utterance.
If the PREFERRED CENTER, Cp(Ui), is realized in Ui+l, itis predicted to be the Cb(Ui+l) .
We will use the following forward center ranking forJapanese: 6(GRAMMATICAL OR ZERO) TOPIC > EMPATHY > SUBJECT > OBJECT2 > OBJECT > OTHERSBackward-looking centers, Cbs, are often deleted or pronominal ized and sometransitions between discourse segments are more coherent han others.
According tothe theory of centering, coherence is measured by the hearer 's  inference load wheninterpreting a discourse sequence (Joshi and Weinstein 1981; Grosz, Joshi, and Wein-stein unpublished).
For instance, discourse segments that continue centering the sameentity are more coherent han those that repeatedly shift from one center to another.These observations are encapsulated in two rules:.2.RULESFor each Ui in a discourse segment U1, .
.
.
,  Urn:If some element of Cf(Ui- l )  is realized as a pronoun in Ui, thenso is Cb(Ui).Transition states are ordered.
CONTINUE is preferred to RETAIN ispreferred to SMOOTH-SHIFT is preferred to ROUGH-SHIFT.
7Rule (1) captures the intuition that pronominal ization is one way to indicate dis-course salience.
It follows from Rule (1) that if there are multiple pronouns in anutterance, one of these must  be the Cb.
In addition, if there is only one pronoun,then that pronoun must  be the Cb.
For Japanese, we extend this rule directly to zeros,assuming that zeros in Japanese correspond to destressed pronouns in English.Rule (2) states that model ing attentional state depends on analyzing adjacent ut-terances according to a set of transitions that measure the coherence of the discoursesegment in which the utterance occurs.
Measuring coherence is based on an estimateof the hearer 's  inference load, but this measure must  always be relative since there isno grammar  of discourse.
Thus methods for exploring these issues must  use compar-ative measures of how some discourses are easier to process than others.
Centeringtheory models this by stipulating that some transitions are preferred over others.The typology of transitions from one utterance, Ui, to the next is based on twofactors: whether the backward-looking center, Cb, is the same from Ui-1 to Ui, andwhether this discourse entity is the same as the preferred center, Cp, of Ui.
86 This ranking is consistent with Kuno's Empathy Hierarchies and with Kameyama's Expected CenterOrder (Kuno 1987; Kameyama 1985, 1988).
This will be discussed in Section 6.
We do not includediscourse ntities for verb phrases or other propositional entities in this ranking since we have notstudied their contribution (but see Sidner 1979, 1981 and Carter 1987).7 Smooth-shift was called shifting-1 by Brennan, Friedman, and Pollard (1987).8 It is possible that restricting the relation between the Cb(Ui) and the Cb(Ui_l) to be coreference(equality) may be too strong.
Future work should examine the role of shifts to functionally dependententities or entities related by partially ordered set (POSET) relations to the previous Cb.199Computational Linguistics Volume 20, Number 2Cb(Ui) = Cb(Ui-1)OR Cb(Ui-1) = \[?1Cb(Ui) # Cb(Ui-1)Cb(Ui) = Cp(Ui) CONTINUE SMOOTH-SHIFTCb(Ui)  Cp(Ui) RETAIN  ROUGH-SHIFTFigure 1Centering transition states, rule 2.KEYBACKWARD-LOOKING CENTER = CbPREFERRED CENTER = CpUninstantiated Cb = \[?\].2.Cb(Ui) = Cb(Ui_l), or there is no Cb(Ui-1)Cb(Ui) = Cp(Ui)If both (1) and (2) hold then we are in a CONTINUE transition.
The CONTINUEtransition corresponds to cases where the speaker has been talking about a particularentity and indicates an intention to continue talking about that entity.
9If (1) holds but(2) doesn't  hold then we are in a RETAIN transition.
RETAIN corresponds to a situationwhere the speaker is intending to SHIFT onto a new entity in the next utterance andis signalling this by realizing the current center in a lower ranked position on the Cf(examples follow below).If (1) doesn't  hold then we are in one of the SHIFT states depending on whether ornot (2) holds.
This definition of transition states is summar ized in Figure 1 (Brennan,Friedman, and Pollard 1987).
We will use the notation of Cb(Ui-1) = \[?\] for caseswhere there is no Cb(Ui-1).
Section 4 will discuss center instantiation.The combination of the constraints, rules, and transition states makes a set oftestable predictions about which interpretations hearers will prefer because they re-quire less processing.
For example, maximal ly coherent segments are those that requireless processing time.
A sequence of a CONTINUE followed by another CONTINUE shouldonly require the hearer to keep track of one main discourse entity, which is currentlyboth the Cb and the Cp.
A single pronoun in an utterance is the current Cb (by Rule1) and can be interpreted to cospecify the discourse ntity realized by Cp(Ui-1) in onestep (Constraint 3).The ordering of the Cf is the main determinant of which transition state holdsbetween adjacent utterances.
This means that the predictions of the theory are largelydetermined by the ranking of the items on the Cf.
But there are many factors that cancontribute to the salience of a discourse entity; among them are factors that we willnot examine here such as lexical semantics, intonation, word-order, and tense.
1?
In this9 A prediction made by the preference for CONTINUE is that intersentential antecedents for pronouns willbe preferred over intrasentential c ndidates.
This preference is one that distinguishes Centering forpronoun interpretation from the proposal made by Hobbs (1976a, 1976b).
However, this preferenceneeds to be constrained further by the fact that sortal filters may rule out the Cp of the previousutterance as the current Cb.
In this case the data suggest that perhaps intrasentential c ndidates shouldbe preferred (Walker 1989).
Carter explored this in his extension of Sidner's theory of local focusing(Carter 1987).10 See Hudson-D'Zmura (1988) for an examination ofthe role of lexical semantics in centering.200Marilyn Walker et al Japanese Discoursepaper we explore the influence of various syntactic factors, which we discuss in detailin Section 3.
We will also examine the relative contribution of pronominalization a dpostposition marking in Section 5.
We postulate that the Cf ordering will vary fromlanguage to language depending on the means the language provides for expressingdiscourse function.
However much of this variation can be captured in the ranking ofthe Cf due to the modularity of the theory.In Sections 2.2 and 2.3 we will present some simple examples to motivate thesedefinitions.
In Section 2.4 we will present a slightly modified version of the centeringalgorithm (Brennan, Friedman, and Pollard 1987).
In the following discussion we as-sume that the centering rules and constraints and the notion of centering transitionstates have some cognitive reality (Brennan submitted; Hudson-D'Zmura 1988; Gor-don, Grosz, and Gilliom 1993; Hudson-D'Zmura and Tanenhaus, 1995).
However, wemake no claims about he cognitive reality of the centering algorithm that we discussin Section 2.4.2.2 The Distinction between Continue and RetainThis theory predicts preferences in the interpretation of utterances whose meaningdepends on parameters from the discourse context.
Thus if there are still multiplepossibilities for interpretation after the application of all constraints and rules, theordering on transitions applies, and CONTINUE interpretations are preferred (Rule 2).Indeed, many cases of the preference for one interpretation ver another follow directlyfrom the distinction between the transition states of CONTINUE and RETAIN.
Let us lookat a simple example.
In the discourse segment in 3, the zero in the second sentence isunderstood as referring to Taroo, and not to Hanako.
Remember that the interpretationof zeros is indicated with parentheses.Example 3a.
Taroo wab.Hanako o eiga ni sasoimasita.Taroo TOP/SUBJ Hanako OBJ movie to invitedTaroo invited Hanako to the movie.Cb: TAROOCf: \[TAROO, HANAKO\]0 itiniti-zyuu nani mo te ni tukimasendesita.SUBJ all-day anything even hand to attached-not(Taroo) could not do anything all day.Cb: TAROOCf: \[TAROO\]In example 3, the Cf from 3a contains the discourse ntity for Taroo as the firstelement and for Hanako as the second element.
When the unexpressed argument isinterpreted in 3b, the information from this Cf is used.
Because the zero subject mayREALIZE either Taroo or Hanako, both Constraint 3 and Rule 1 would be obeyed witheither interpretation.
11 However by interpreting the zero as Taroo, Taroo is the Cb, andit is possible to get a preferred CONTINUE interpretation Taroo could not do anything allday.
In this interpretation, Taroo is both the Cb(3b) and the Cp(3b).11 The hypothesis that wa in 3a instantiates Taroo as the Cb will be discussed in Section 4.201Computational Linguistics Volume 20, Number 22.3 The Distinction between Smooth-Shift and Rough-ShiftIn example 4, we illustrate the difference between the transition states of ROUGH-SHIFT and SMOOTH-SHIFT.
Remember that ROUGH-SHIFT is claimed to be less coherentthan SMOOTH-SHIFT (Brennan, Friedman, and Pollard 1987).
In both cases the speakerhas shifted the center to a different discourse ntity.
However, in the SMOOTH-SHIFTtransition state, the speaker has indicated an intention to continue talking about therecently shifted-to entity by realizing that entity in a highly ranked Cf position suchas subject, whereas no such indication is available with the ROUGH-SHIFT transition.The numbers hown to the right of an interpretation correspond to how many nativespeakers preferred that interpretation.Example 4a.
Taroo ga kooen de hon o yondeimasita.Taroo SUBJ park at book OBJ reading-wasTaroo was reading a book in the park.Cb: \[?\]Cfl: \[TAROO, BOOK\]SUBI OBJb.
0 koora o kai ni baiten ni hairimasita.SUBJ cola OBJ buy to shop into entered(Taroo) entered a shop to buy a cola.Cb: TAROOCfl: \[TAROO, COLA\] CONTINUESUBJ OBJc.
Ziroo wa 0 sokode guuzen dekuwasimasita.Ziroo TOP/SUBJ OBJ there by chance metZiroo met (Taroo) there by chance.Cb: TAROOCf: \[ZIROO, TAROO\] RETAINTOP OBJd.
0 0 eiga ni sasoimasita.SUBJ OBJ movie to invited.
(Ziroo) invited (Taroo) to a movie.Cb: ZIROOCfl: \[ZIROO, TAROO\] SMOOTH-SHIFT 32subj objCf2: \[TAROO, ZIROO\] ROUGH-SHIFT 2SUBJ OBJIn example 4, the use of TOPIC marking in the phrase Ziroo wa of utterance (c)means that (c) is interpreted as a RETAINJ 2 Ziroo becomes the most highly rankeddiscourse ntity for c, although Taroo is the Cb since Taroo was most highly rankedfor utterance (b) (by Constraint 3).
Then when we apply the Centering algorithm in (d),there are two candidates for the Cb(d) from the Cf(c), both Ziroo and Taroo.
However,this time when constraint 3 applies, stipulating that the Cb must be the highest-ranked12 It has also been claimed that symmetric verbs uch as meet by chance mark EMPATHY on the subject(Kuno 1976a).202Marilyn Walker et al Japanese Discourseelement of Cf(c) realized in 4d, Ziroo must be the highest-ranked ntity realized, andtherefore must be the Cb.
At this point it is clear that some kind of SHIFT is forced bythe application of constraint 3.
The two candidates are a SMOOTH-SHIFT and a ROUGH-SHIFT.
The SMOOTH-SHIFT interpretation corresponds to the reading Ziroo invited Tarooto a movie whereas the ROUGH-SHIFT interpretation corresponds tothe Taroo invited Zirooreading.
The SMOOTH-SHIFT interpretation is more highly ranked, thus considered morecoherent and so is the preferred interpretation (Z = 10.93, p < .001).2.4 The Centering AlgorithmThe CENTERING ALGORITHM that was proposed by Brennan, Friedman, and Pollardincorporates the centering rules and constraints in addition to contra-indexing con-straints on coreference (Reinhart 1976; Brennan, Friedman, and Pollard 1987; Iida 1993).These contra-indexing constraints specify that in a sentence such as He likes him, that heand him cannot co-specify the same discourse ntity.
The algorithm applies centeringtheory to the problem of resolving anaphoric reference.
Application of the algorithmrequires three basic steps..2..GENERATE possible Cb-Cf combinationsFILTER by constraints, e.g.
contra-indexing,?
sortal predicates, centeringrules and constraintsRANK by transition orderingsIn order to apply this algorithm to Japanese, possible Cb-Cf combinations (GEN-ERATE step 1) must be constructed from the surface string and information from thesubcategorization frame of the verb.
First the verb subcategorization s examined, andif there are more entities than appear in the surface string, zeros are postulated asforward centers.
These zeros are then treated just like pronouns in English by the restof the algorithm.
We use a different ranking for the Cf for Japanese than for English,but this has no effect on the actual algorithm itself since the Cf ranking is a declarativeparameter.The steps of the algorithm given above can be interleaved to improve computa-tional efficiency.
A simple implementation is to:?
Never propose a Cf that violates linguistic onstraints oncontra-indexing.
(In other words, apply the contra-indexing filter as earlyas possible to avoid Cb-Cf combinations that will be eliminated by thatfilter,)?
If there are pronouns in an utterance, only propose pronouns as possibleCbs.
(Collect he pronouns from the proposed Cfs as Cbs, from Rule 1.
)In addition, it is simple to add additional filters to step (2) of the algorithm.
Forinstance, any constraint that is lexically specified such as \[?animacy\] can be easilyapplied as a filter.
It is also possible to pursue a 'best first' strategy by interleavingsteps (1), (2), and (3) so that a CONTINUE will be found without extra processing if oneexists.In example 5, we illustrate in more detail how the steps of the algorithm workand the difference between CONTINUE and RETAIN.
Each utterance shows what the Cband Cf would be for that utterance.
We will mostly be concerned with the process ofresolving the two zeros in utterance 5c.203Computational Linguistics Volume 20, Number 2Example 5a.
Taroo wab.saisin no konpyuutaa o kaimasita.TOP/SUBJ newest of computer OBJ boughtTaroo bought a new computer.Cb: TAROOCf: \[TAROO, COMPUTER\]0 John ni sassoku sore o misemasita.SUBJ John OBJ2 at once that OBJ showed'Taroo) showed it at once to John.C.Cb: TAROOCf: \[TAROO, JOHN, COMPUTER\] CONTINUE0 0 atarasiku sonawatta kinoo o setumeisimasita.SUBJ OBJ2 newly equipped function OBJ explained(Taroo) explained the newly equipped functions to (John).Cb: TAROOCfl: \[TAROO, JOHN\] CONTINUE 27SUBJ OBJCf2: \[JOHN, TAROO\] RETAIN 1SUBJ OBJCf3: \[JOHN, JOHN\] CONTRA-INDEX FILTERSUBJ OBJCf4: \[TAROO, TAROO\] CONTRA-INDEX FILTERSUBJ OBJExample 5c has explained as the main verb, which requires an animate subjectand object2.
Since there are two animate zeros in 5c, which are also contra-indexedby syntactic onstraints, both Ziroo and Taroo must be realized in 5c.
Constraint (3)restricts the Cb to Taroo as the highest-ranked lement from the Cf(Sb).
The interpretiveprocess must also generate the possible candidates for the Cf.
If no constraints applied,then all four candidates shown above as Cfl, Cf2, Cf3, and Cf4 would be possible.However, the contraindexing filter will rule out Cf3 and Cf4.
As mentioned above,there is no reason that these filters cannot be applied at the GENERATE phase ratherthan later on.The only CONTINUE interpretation available, Taroo explained the newly equipped func-tions to John, corresponds to the forward centers Cfl.
It is a CONTINUE interpretationbecause Cb(5c) = Cb(5b) and also Cb(5c) = Cp(5c).
The RETAIN interpretation is lesspreferred and is defined by the fact that Cb(5c) = Cb(5b), but Cb(5c) ~ Cp(5c).
Thisexample supports the claim that a CONTINUE is preferred over a RETAIN(Z ~- 13.24,p < .001).In order to find this preferred continue interpretation in a 'best first' fashion, Tarooas the Cp(Ui-1) would be tried first as the Cb(Ui), and as the interpretation for thesubject.
Contraindexing rules out Taroo as the object, so John would be tried next asthe object.In the next section, we examine further the application of centering to the inter-pretation of zeros in Japanese.
We will examine the ranking of forward centers thatwe have adopted for Japanese and explain how this is partially determined by theway the Japanese language allows a speaker to express discourse functions.
We will204Marilyn Walker et al Japanese Discoursealso give some examples of the interpretation of zeros in cases involving Japanesediscourse markers for TOPIC and EMPATHY.3.
Centering in JapaneseThe theory of centering is a formal specification that is intended to model attentionalstate and is defined by the rules and constraints given in Section 2.1.
Attentionalstate in turn constrains the discourse participant's interpretation process; one aspectof attentional state is the notion of discourse salience.
In the centering model, theordering of the forward centers is an approximation f discourse salience.
This in turnis the main determinant of discourse interpretation processes such as the resolution ofzeros in Japanese.
A crucial question then is what discourse factors must be consideredto determine the ordering of the forward centers, Cf, in Japanese discourse.Being a subject has been shown to be an important factor for English; this is re-flected in a Cf ordering by grammatical function (Prince 1981b; Brennan, Friedman,and Pollard 1987; Hudson-D'Zmura 1988; Brennan submitted).
Aspects of surface or-der may also affect the interpretation (Di Eugenio 1990; Hajicova and Vrbova 1982).An interpretation algorithm can also use pronominalization as an indicator of what thespeaker believes is salient (Grosz, Joshi, and Weinstein unpublished).
Furthermore, ze-ros in Japanese are not realized syntactically sothat there must be a way to distinguishzeros from other entities inferred to be part of a discourse situation.
Consider:Example 6Taroo ga 0 aimasita.Taroo SUBJ OBJ2 metTaroo met (0).This sentence is not felicitous unless the addressee has already been given someinformation about the person that Taroo met, either in the current discourse or inprevious discourses.
In contrast, nonsubcategorized-for arguments such as adjunctsare not necessarily given a specific interpretation, but rather are given a nonspecificone.Example 7Taroo ga Hanako ni aimasita.Taroo SUBJ Hanako OBJ2 metTaroo met Hanako.The sentence means that Taroo met Hanako at some time in some place: the tem-poral location of the meeting situation eed not be specified.
The speaker can utter thissentence ven if the addressee does not know where and when Taroo met Hanako.Thus, in this work, we only represent obligatorily subcategorized arguments of theverb on the Cf, assuming that the salience of discourse ntities is partially determinedby virtue of filling a verb's argument role, and the information from the subcatego-rization frame is used to determine that a zero is present in an utterance.Zeros are then interpreted with reference to the current context.
Prince has pro-posed that the current context should be categorized by ASSUMED FAMILIARITY (Prince1981b; Horn 1986), with a concomitant goal of determining the correlation betweenthe use of certain linguistic forms and the types of assumed familiarity.
The first di-vision of assumed familiarity is into the subtypes of NEW, INFERABLE, and EVOKED.205Computational Linguistics Volume 20, Number 2NEW can be divided into BRAND-NEW, discourse ntities that are both new to the dis-course and new to the hearer, and UNUSED, discourse entities old to the hearer butnew to the discourse.
The information status of EVOKED can be further divided intoTEXTUALLY EVOKED, old in the discourse and therefore old to the hearer as well, andSITUATIONALLY EVOKED, entities in the current situation.
INFERABLES are technically bothhearer-new and discourse-new but depend on information that is old to the hearer andthe discourse, and are often treated by speakers as though they were both hearer-oldand discourse-old.
There is a hierarchy of assumed familiarity in terms of discoursesalience:Assumed Familiarity Hierarchy (Prince 1981b):TEXTUALLY EVOKED > SITUATIONALLY EVOKED > INFERABLE > UNUSED > BRAND-NEWZeros typically refer to EVOKED entities, 13 but there is a scale of relative salienceamong the EVOKED entities.
In our theory this is modeled with Cf ranking.
We repeatthe proposed ranking of the Cf here and justify it in the following sections: 14Cf Ranking for Japanese(GRAMMATICAL OR ZERO) TOPIC > EMPATHY > SUBJECT > OBJECT2 > OBJECT > OTHERSThe relevance of the notions of TOPIC and speaker's EMPATHY to centering is thata discourse entity realized as the TOPIC or the EMPATHY LOCUS is more salient andshould be ranked higher on the Cf.
Whenever a discourse ntity simultaneously fulfillsmultiple roles, the entity is usually ranked according to the highest ranked role.In the following sections we will discuss the motivation for this ranking.
Section 3.1discusses the role of the grammatical topic marker wa in Japanese.
Section 3.2 explainsthe role of EMPATHY in Japanese discourse salience and shows that (GRAMMATICALOR ZERO) TOPIC > EMPATHY and that EMPATHY > SUBJ.
Section 3.2.1 shows how thecentering algorithm handles utterances with empathy loci.
Zero topics will not bediscussed until Section 5.3.1 TopicDiscourse ntities that are EVOKED, INFERABLE, or UNUSED can be marked as the TOPIC.The speaker cannot mark an entity as the grammatical TOPIC unless the hearer is awareof the object that s /he is going to talk about (Prince 1978a; Kuno 1976b).
For example:Example 8Hutari wa paatii ni kimasita.two-person TOP/SUBJ party to cameSpeaking of two persons, they came to the party.13 Under certain circumstances that we cannot explore here, it appears that zeros can at times be used torefer to inferable or unused entities, just as pronouns in English sometimes can be.14 This ranking resembles Kuno's Empathy Hierarchy and Kameyama's Expected Center Order, but wedistinguish two kinds of TOPIC and we posit that OBJECT2 is more salient han OBJECT.
We continueKuno's use of the term EMPATHY to represent the EMPATHY LOCUS, whereas Kameyama used the propertyIDENT for EMPATHY (Kameyama 1988).206Marilyn Walker et al Japanese DiscourseExample 8 is felicitous only when hutari ('two persons') is understood as meaningthe two people under discussion.
The sentence never means that the people who came tothe party numbered two.The fact that the wa-marked entity should be discourse-old is also shown by thefact that a wh-question cannot be answered with a wa-marked NP.Example 9a.
Dono hitob-1.b-2.gawhich person SUBJ Ziroo OBJ defendedWhich person defended Ziroo ?Taroo ga Ziroo o bengosimasita.Taroo SUBJ Ziroo OBJ defendedTaroo defended Ziroo.
*Taroo wa Ziroo o bengosimasita.Taroo TOP/SUBJ Ziroo OBJ defendedTaroo defended Ziroo.Ziroo o bengosimasita ka.QWhat the question context shows is that even in a simple declarative sentence, theuse of the topic marker wa contrasts with the subject marker ga in what is understoodas already in the discourse context.
For instance, in a discourse initial utterance, 10a,assumes no shared information or that someone defended Ziroo and asserts that thesomeone is Taroo.
In 10b, the discourse-old proposition is that Taroo did something andwhat is asserted is that what he did was defend Ziroo.Example 10a.
Taroo gab.Ziroo o bengosimasita.Taroo SUBJ Ziroo OBJ defendedTaroo defended Ziroo.Taroo wa Ziroo o bengosimasita.Taroo TOP/SUBJ Ziroo OBJ defendedTaroo defended Ziroo.While topics are often subjects, subject and grammatical topic need not coincide.Any argument can be realized as a topic, as shown in examples 11 and 12.Example 11Taroo wa Hanako ga bengosita.Taroo TOP Hanako SUBJ defendedAs for Taroo, Hanako defended (him).Example 12Tokyoo e wa Hanako ga itta?Tokyo to TOP Hanako SUBJ wentTo Tokyo, Hanako went.The assumption that the TOPIC is more salient than the SUBJECT, when the two aredifferent, is supported by the fact that an indefinite NP in subject position such as who,which, or somebody cannot be regarded as the TOPIC: an indefinite NP is never markedby the topic marker wa, but by the subject marker ga. For example:207Computational Linguistics Volume 20, Number 2Example 13Dono hito ga Ziroo o bengosimasita ka.which person SUBJ Ziroo OBJ defended QWhich person defended Ziroo ?Example 14*Dono hito wa Ziroo o bengosimasita ka.who person TOP/SUBJ Ziroo OBJ defended QWhich person defended Ziroo?It is clear from these examples that the grammatical  topic, wa-marked entity, inJapanese, represents assumable shared information in an ongoing conversation.
It hasbeen taken to be the ' theme'  or 'what  the sentence is about'  (Kuno 1973; Shibatani1990).
In our framework, this is the role of the Cb.
We will provide evidence support ingthis position in Section 4.
However,  we claim that this is just a default and that otherfactors can contribute to establishing or continuing an entity as the Cb.
Kuno alsoclaims that a zero subject is equivalent to a wa-marked entity, and we provide supportfor this claim in Section 5, showing that the property of having previously been theCb, in combination with being realized by a zero, contributes to an entity being the Cp.3.2 EmpathyKuno (1976b) proposed a notion of EMPATHY in order to present he speaker 's  positionor identification in describing a situation.
In a hugging situation involving a man namedTaroo and his son Saburoo, Kuno notes that this situation can be described in variousways, some of which are shown in example 15.Example 15a.
Taroo hugged Saburoo.b.
Taroo hugged his son.c.
Saburoo's father hugged him.These sentences differ from each other with respect o camera ngle, the position thatthe speaker takes to observe and describe this situation.
In 15a, the speaker is assumedto be describing the event objectively: the camera is placed at the same distance fromboth Taroo and Saburoo.
On the other hand, the camera may be placed closer to Tarooin 15b and closer to Saburoo in 15c.
This is shown by the use of relational terms suchas son and father, respectively.
The term EMPATHY is used for this camera angle, whichindicates the speaker 's  position among the participants in the event describedY15 The speaker's position is not determined by his physical proximity, but rather is measured by theemotional or social relationship.
In this sense, the term speaker's identification (Kuno 1976b) may be moresuitable than the term speaker's position.
Furthermore, the notion of EMPATHY is different from that ofperspective (Iida 1993).
Empathy is the speaker's identification with a discourse ntity, but the speakerdoes not have to take the perspective of the person who he empathizes with.
For example, consider thefollowing utterance:(i) Taroo wa Hanako ni migigawa no hon o totte-kureta.Taroo TOP/SUBJ Hanako OBJ2 right GEN book  OBJ take-gaveTaroo did Hanako aflavor in taking a book on his~her right.In this example, the speaker empathizes with Hanako as indicated by the empathy verb kureru, yethe still can describe the given situation from Taroo's perspective, which is indicated by ambiguity inthe interpretation f the deictic expression migigawa no ('right of').208Marilyn Walker et al Japanese DiscourseIn Japanese the realization of speaker's empathy is especially important whendescribing an event involving giving or receiving.
There is no way to describe agivingand receiving situation objectively (Kuno and Kaburaki 1977).
In 16, the use of the verbkureru indicates the speaker's empathy with Ziroo, the discourse ntity realized inobject position, while in 17, the speaker's empathy with the subject Taroo is indicatedby the use of the past tense form yatta of the verb yaru.Example 16Taroo ga Ziroo ni hon o kureta.Taroo SUBJ Ziroo OBJ2 book OBJ gaveTaroo gave Ziroo a book.
EMPATHY=OBJ2=ZIROOExample 17Taroo ga Ziroo ni hon o yatta.Taroo SUBJ Ziroo OBJ2 book OBJ gaveTaroo gave Ziroo a book.
EMPATHY=SUB=TAROOA verb that is sensitive to the speaker's empathy is an EMPATHY-LOADED verb.
TheEMPATHY LOCUS is the argument position whose referent he speaker automaticallyidentifies with.
In other words, the verb kureru has the EMPATHY LOCUS on the object,while verbs like yaru place the EMPATHY LOCUS on the subject.The use of deictic verbs such as kuru ('come'), iku ('go'), okuru ('send to'), and yokosu('send in') also encode the speaker's empathy.
For example, the speaker indicatesempathy with Taroo by using the past tense form kita of the verb kuru in the followingexample.Example 18Hanako wa Taroo no tokoro ni kita.Hanako  TOP/SUBJ Taroo of place to cameHanako came to Taroo's place.Many Japanese verbs can be made into empathy-loaded verbs because of a pro-ductive verb-compounding operation by which these empathy-loaded verbs are usedas the auxiliary verb, attaching to the main verb}  6 For example, kureru can be usedas a suffix, to mark OBJ or OBJ2 as the EMPATHY LOCUS.
The attachment of yaru marksSUBJECT as the EMPATHY LOCUS.
The complex predicate made by this operation inheritsthe EMPATHY LOCUS of  the suffixed verb.
For example:Example 19Hanako ga Taroo ni hon o yonde-kureta.Hanako SUBJ Taroo OBJ2 book OBJ read-gaveHanako did Taroo a favor in reading a book.
EMPATHY = OBJ2 = TAROOIn this case Taroo is interpreted as the EMPATHY LOCUS because of the auxiliarykureta attached to the main verb.
Similarly in example 20, the speaker indicates empa-thy with Hanako by using the past tense form yatta of the verb yaru as an auxiliaryverb to the main verb tazuneru.16 Certain intransitive rbs cannot be made into empathy-loaded v rbs ince the empathy-loadedversions make no sense, .g.
moreru (leak).209Computational Linguistics Volume 20, Number 2Example 20Hanako ga Taroo o tazunete-yatta.Hanako SUBI Taroo OBJ visit-gave(lit.
)Hanako received afavor in visiting Taroo.
EMPATHY = SUBJ = HANAKOAs demonstrated in the following examples, a discourse ntity that is realized asthe EMPATHY LOCUS must be EVOKED.Example 21Taroo ga Ziroo ni okane o kasite-kureta.Taroo SUBJ Ziroo OBJ2 money OBJ lend-gaveTaroo did Ziroo a favor in lending him some money.Example 22*Taroo ga dareka ni okane o kasite-kureta.Taroo SUBJ somebody OBJ2 money OBJ lend-gaveTaroo did somebody a favor in lending him some money.Example 23*Taroo ga misiranu hito ni okane o kasite-kureta.Taroo SUBJ unknown person OBJ2 money OBJ lend-gaveTaroo did a stranger afavor in lending him some money.The contrast between 21, 22, and 23 demonstrates that the use of a BRAND-NEWentity in the EMPATHY LOCUS position of the verb give is not acceptable.
Therefore anentity in the EMPATHY LOCUS position is ranked in a higher position on the Cf than thesubject.3.2.1 Empathy and the Centering Algorithm.
Using the Centering Algorithm, wemodel EMPATHY as a language-specific discourse factor by adding the EMPATHY-markeddiscourse ntity to the Cf ranking.
Then preferences for CONTINUE over RETAIN whenEMPATHY is involved can be demonstrated, as in example 24 below: 17Example 24a.
Hanako wa kuruma ga kowarete komatteimasita.Hanako  TOP/SUBJ car SUBJ broken at a loss-wasHer car broken, Hanako was at a loss.Cb: HANAKOCf: \[HANAKO, CAR\]b. Taroo ga 0 sinsetu-ni te o kasite-kuremasita.Taroo SUBJ OBJ2/EMP kindly hand OBJ lend-gave.Taroo kindly did (Hanako) a favor in helping her.Cb: \[HANAKO\]Cf: \[HANAKO, TAROO\]EMPATHY SUBJ17 The verb form kuremasita in 24b is the polite form of kureta, the past tense form of the verb kureru.210Marilyn Walker et al Japanese DiscourseC.
Tugi no hi 0 0 eiga ni sasoimasita.next of day SUBJ OBJ movie to invitedNext day (Hanako) invited (Taroo) to a movie.Cb: HANAKOC fl: \[HANAKO, TAROO\] CONTINUE 16SUBJ OBICf2: \[TAROO, HANAKO \] RETAIN 2SUBJ OBJIn 24c, the verb invited requires an animate subject and object, and these mustbe realized by different discourse ntities because of the contraindexing constraint.Hanako is the most highly ranked entity from 24b that is realized in 24c, and there-fore must be the Cb.
The preferred interpretation is therefore she invited him to a movie(Z = 5.25, p < .001).
This corresponds to Cfl, the more highly ranked CONTINUE tran-sition, in which Hanako is the preferred center, Cp.
This interpretation can be foundwith minimal processing by trying the Cp(24b), Hanako, as the Cb(24c), by interpret-ing the subject zero as Hanako.
This gives a CONTINUE transition.
Then contraindexingconstraints mean that Hanako cannot fill both argument positions, so the object posi-tion is interpreted as Taroo.
This interpretation is found with minimal processing byinterleaving the steps of the Centering algorithm proposed in Brennan et al (1987).Note that nothing special needs to be said about the fact that EMPATHY is thediscourse factor that made Hanako the Cp in 24b and thus predicted that Hanakowould be the Cb at 24c (pace Brennan, Friedman, and Pollard 1987).
The preferencein the interpretation follows from the distinction between CONTINUE and RETAIN andthe ranking of Cf.
Thus, the centering framework is easily adapted to handle thislanguage-specific eature.3.3 Topic and EmpathyIn general the assignment of the EMPATHY relationship ispragmatic.
It is determined bythe speaker's relation to the discourse participants in the discourse.
In 24, for example,the EMPATHY relationship between the speaker and Hanako and between the speakerand Taroo is clear: the use of the empathy verb in the second sentence indicates thatthe speaker is closer to Hanako than to Taroo.However, besides cases where the speaker clearly expresses who s/he empathizeswith, it is also possible for the context o provide some information about he speaker'sproximity relationship with discourse participants in the given discourse, so that thehearer can determine the EMPATHY relation that the speaker has in mind.
In this paper,we only consider cases where EMPATHY is syntactically marked by the use of empathy-loaded verbs.Kuno's notion of EMPATHY is more general.
For instance, Kuno's EMPATHY HIERAR-CHY consists of different scales for EMPATHY that include notions such as TOPIC andSPEAKER (Kuno 1987).
Kuno's Topic Empathy Hierarchy suggests that the discourseentity realized as the TOPIC will often coincide with the EMPATHY LOCUS:Topic Empathy Hierarchy: Discourse-Topic > Discourse-NontopicGiven an event or state that involves A and B such that A is corefer-ential with the topic of the present discourse and B is not, it is easierfor the speaker to empathize with A than with B.In support of Kuno's claim, we have found that when no empathy relation isclearly indicated and no topic has been clearly established that it is difficult for a211Computational Linguistics Volume 20, Number 2hearer to determine the empathy relation that the speaker intends.
Previous Cbs andcurrent Cps can be high on the empathy scale, and yet the discourse ntity realized asthe grammatical TOPIC does not necessarily coincide with the discourse ntity realizedas the EMPATHY LOCUS.
A simple sentence to show this point is given in example 25below:Example 25Taroo wa Ziroo ni hon o yonde-kuremasita.Taroo  TOP/SUBJ Ziroo OBJ2 book OBJ read-gaveTaroo gave Ziroo a //avor off reading a book.
EMPATHY = OBJ2 = ZIROOIn example 25, Taroo is the TOPIC while Ziroo is the EMPATHY LOCUS.
Similarly, azero does not have to be realized as the EMPATHY LOCUS.
In 26b the zero in the subjectposition realizes the Cb and refers to Taroo.Example 26a.
Taroo wa syukudai o zenbu yari-oemasita.Taroo TOP/SUB homework OBJ all do-finishedTaroo finished his homework.b.
0 Ziroo ni hon o yonde-kuremasita.SUBJ Ziroo OBJ2 book OBJ read-gave(Taroo) gave Ziroo a //avor o//reading a book.
EMPATHY = OBJ2 = ZIROOTOPIC is higher than EMPATHY in the Cf ranking.
The higher degree of salienceof  TOPIC over EMPATHY is shown by the different interpretation of (b) sentences inexamples 27 and 28.
The only difference in these examples is that Mitiko is wa-markedin 27a but is ga-marked in 28a:Example 27a.
Mitiko wa kanai o gityoo ni osite-kuremasita.Mit iko  TOP/SUBJ w i fe  OBJ/EMP chairman OBJ2 recommend-gaveMitiko did my wife a favor in recommending her as chairperson.b.
0 asu no kaihyoo-kekka o tanosimi-ni siteim asu.SUBJ tomorrow of results OBJ look-forward oing-is(Mitiko) is looking forward to tomorrow's results.Example 28a.
Mitiko ga kanai o gityoo ni osite-kuremasita.Mitiko SUBJ wife OBJ/EMP chairman OBJ2 recommend-gaveMitiko did my wife a //avor in recommending her as chairperson.b.
0 asu no kaihyoo-kekka o tanosimi-ni siteimasu.SUBJ tomorrow of results OBJ look-forward oing-is(Mitiko) is looking forward to tomorrow's results.
(My wife) is looking forward to tomorrow's results.212Marilyn Walker et al Japanese DiscourseThe TOPIC Mitiko is preferred as the unexpressed subject of the (b) sentence inexample 27.
TM On the other hand, the subject Mitiko is not strongly preferred, as shownin example 28: the zero in the second sentence in 28 is understood as referring to eitherMitiko or my wife.
That is, the possible interpretation i these examples hows that theNP my wife, which is realized as the EMPATHY LOCUS, is not as salient as the TOPIC.
19So why is it easier to empathize with a discourse entity that has been the topicas Kuno demonstrates?
It seems important o keep the notions of TOPIC and EMPATHYseparate, but in Section 5.1 we will demonstrate an effect where the topic entity isinterpreted as the empathy locus.
We claim that the ranking of the Cf and the poten-tial for a CONTINUE interpretation determines whether this effect will hold.
In otherwords, the tendency for the topic entity to be interpreted as the empathy locus followsfrom more general discourse processing factors, such as a hearer preferring CONTINUEtransitions within a given local stretch of discourse.3.4 SummaryTo summarize,  we have outlined the roles of discourse markers uch as those for TOPICand EMPATHY by which Japanese grammaticizes some aspects of discourse function,and we have argued that TOPIC and EMPATHY markers can only be used on entitiesthat are already in the discourse context.One factor that hasn't  been discussed is the role of pronominalization, but manyresearchers have argued that discourse entities realized by pronouns are more salientthan other discourse entities (Clark and Havi land 1977; Grosz, Joshi, and Weinsteinunpublished; Kuno 1976b, 1987).
We take zeros in Japanese to be analogous to pro-nouns in English in this respect.
Since pronominal ization can apply at any position inthe ranking of the Cf, the role of its contribution is particularly interesting when it isin conflict with some other factor such as grammatical  function or topic marking.
Thiswill be discussed further in Section 5.4.
Initial Center InstantiationINITIAL CENTER INSTANTIATION is a process by which a discourse entity introduced ina segment-initial utterance becomes the Cb.
In our framework, this happens as a sideeffect of the Centering Algorithm.
Typically, when an interpretation is found for thesecond utterance in a discourse segment, the Cb becomes instantiated.
2?
The Cb of aninitial utterance Ui is treated as a variable that is then unified with whatever Cb isassigned to the subsequent utterance Ui+l.Typically, a discourse entity is introduced as a ga-marked subject, and then isreferred to by a zero in a subsequent utterance (Clancy and Downing 1987).
Considerexample 29.18 The zero may be interpreted as indirectly referring to the speaker.
This interpretation is always possiblewhen the verb kureru is used: the use of kureru implies that the speaker is closer to the beneficiaryargument (i.e.
the 0-marked NP in these examples), and the favor given to this person is understood asa benefit o the speaker as well.19 Although it seems as though empathy isn't higher than subject, he conflating factor is that topicmarking establishes a Cb, whereas in 28 no Cb has been established.
This is explained in detail inSection 4.20 In Walker, Iida, and Cote (1990) we called this Center Establishment.
Henceforth we will refer to thisprocess as Center Instantiation i order to avoid confusion with Kameyama's term centerestablishment, which is a different mechanism inher theory (Kameyama 1985).213Computational Linguistics Volume 20, Number 2Example 29a.
Taroo gab.deeta o konpyuutaa ni utikondeimasita.Taroo SUBJ data OBJ computer in was-storingTaroo was storing the data in a computer.Cb: \[?\] ICf: \[TAROO, DATA\]0 yatto hanbun yari-owarimasita.SUBJ finally half do-finishedFinally (Taroo) was half inished.\[ Cb: TAROO \]Cf: \[TAROO\] CONTINUEUsing Taroo as the subject in example 29a is not enough to establish this discoursesegment as being about Taroo.
It is the use of the zero in example 29b that serves toinstantiate Taroo as the Cb.
By our definition of CONTINUE, 29b is a continue transition,because Cb(29b) = Cp(29b) and there was no Cb in 29a.
However, Kuno argues thatreferring to a discourse ntity with a zero is equivalent to marking it as the grammaticaltopic with wa (Kuno 1972).
Our interpretation of this argument is that the use of wa in adiscourse-initial utterance instantiates the wa-marked entity as the Cb in one utterance.This claim is supported by the contrast with the GA-WA alternation in examples 30and 31, where there is a shift in interpretation depending on whether Taroo is markedwith wa in the first sentence.
21Example 30a.
Taroo gab.Ziroo o min'na no mae de tatakimasita.SUBJ OBJ all of front in hit.Taroo hit Ziroo in front of all the other people.Cb: \[71 \[Cf: \[TAROO, ZIROO\]Itiniti-zyuu, kanzen-ni 0 0 musi-simasita.all-day completely ignored(Ziroo) ignored (Taroo) all day.Cb: TAROOCf: \[TAROO, ZIROO\] 3Cb: ZIROOCf: \[ZIROO, TAROO\] 8In example 30, Taroo is introduced by ga.
In this case, it appears that there is a ten-dency due to lexical semantics to instantiate Ziroo as the Cb in the second utterance.
22By the centering definitions, taking either Taroo or Ziroo to be the Cb can result ina CONTINUE interpretation.
However, assuming that the Cf ordering at example 30a iscorrect, constraint 3 is violated by the preferred interpretation of 30b.
Since both of theentities in Cf(30a) are realized, the Cb in example 30b should be the most highly rankedone.
There are two possible conclusions here: (1) In discourse-initial utterances, when21 These xamples were tested by asking survey participants toindicate preference rankings.
Thenumbers given here are only for those subjects who expressed strong preferences; some subjectsexpressed no preference.22 The number of subjects here are too small to test statistically.214Marilyn Walker et al Japanese Discourseno clear indication of topic is given, the Cf ordering alone is not a strong constraint;(2) the ordering of the Cf should be partly determined by lexical semantics or otherknowledge about the situation being described.
However,  compare example 30 withexample 31.Example 31a.
Taroo wa Ziroo o min'na no mae de tatakimasita.SUBJ OBJ all of front in hit.Taroo hit Ziroo in front of all the other people.Cb: \[TARO0\]Cf: \[TAROO, ZIRO0\]b. Itiniti-zyuu, kanzen-ni 0 0 musi-simasita.all-day completely ignored(Taroo) ignored (Ziroo) all day.Cb: TAROOCf: \[TAROO, ZIROO\] 10Cb: ZIROOCf: \[ZIROO, TAROO\] 4The use of wa in example 31 seems to override the semantic preference that wasexhibited in example 30, so that subjects now prefer an interpretation i which Taroois the Cb.
23 This shows that Taroo has not been instantiated as the Cb when it is timeto interpret he two zeros in example 30b.
We explain the contrast by assuming thatthe TOPIC instantiates the Cb when it is first introduced in a discourse-initial utterance,as in example 31a.
Then the only way to get a CONTINUE interpretation for 31b is forTaroo to be the Cb at 31b.Furthermore, we can detect no differences in the interpretation of the final utter-ance between three utterance sequences in which an entity is introduced by wa, andfour utterance sequences in which an entity is first introduced by ga and then realizedby a zero in the second utterance.
This provides further support for the claim that thestatus of discourse entities realized as grammatical topics and those realized as zerosubjects is equivalent.4.1 SummaryIn sum, we have argued that the use of wa in a discourse-initial utterance instantiatesthe wa-marked entity as the Cb.
Cb instantiation can equivalently be done with a two-utterance sequence in which the entity is first introduced as a subject, ga-marked, andthen established as the Cb in the following utterance with a zero referring to that entity.In addition, the fact that the Cb is uninstantiated in discourse initial utterances hasthe effect that the Cf ranking in a discourse initial utterance is not a strong constraint,as it is once a Cb is established.5.
Zero Topic AssignmentIn this section we introduce the notion of a ZERO TOPIC and a rule or assumption thatcan be employed as part of the interpretive process called ZERO TOPIC ASSIGNMENT.23 The small number of subjects means that we can't provide statistical support for this claim.215Computational Linguistics Volume 20, Number 2The rule of ZERO TOPIC ASSIGNMENT defines our distinction between grammaticaltopic and zero topic.
This rule allows a zero that has just been the Cb to continueas the Cp, even when it is not realized in a discourse-salient syntactic position suchas subject.
We will demonstrate his with examples that realize both grammaticaland zero topics.
In these cases, the discourse situation is such that the hearer maymaintain multiple hypotheses about where the speaker's attention is directed, andmust determine whether to apply the default hat the grammatical topic is usuallythe Cp.
24Zero Topic AssignmentWhen a zero in Ui+l represents an entity that was the Cb(Ui), andwhen no other CONTINUE transition is available, that zero may be in-terpreted as the ZERO TOPIC of  Ui+l .What this means is that, in certain discourse nvironments, the entity that waspreviously the Cb is predicted to continue as the Cb.
We conjecture that ZTA is appli-cable in all free word-order languages with zeros.
25 However, ZERO TOPIC ASSIGNMENTis optional; here we have suggested two constraints on when it applies.
We will giveexamples below of cases where it doesn't apply.The option of ZERO TOPIC ASSIGNMENT (henceforth ZTA) has been overlooked inprevious treatments of zeros in Japanese.
ZTA explains why the discourse ntityHanako, which is realized as OBJECT2 in example 32c is interpreted as the SUBJECTof example 32d.Example 32a.
Hanako wa siken o oete, kyoositu ni modorimasita.Hanako  TOP/SUBJ exam OBJ finish classroom to returnedHanako returned to the classroom, finishing her exams.Cb: HANAKOCf: \[HANAKO, EXAM\]b.
0 hon o locker ni simaimasita.SUBJ book OBJ locker in took-awayShe put her books in the locker.Cb: HANAKOCf: \[HANAKO, BOOK\] CONTINUEc.
Itumo no yooni Mitiko ga 0 mondai no tokikata oalways like SUBJ Mitiko OBJ2 problem solve-way OBJsetumeisidasimasita.explainedMitiko, as usual, explained (to Hanako) how to solve the problems.Cb: HANAKOCfl: \[HANAKO, MITIKO, SOLUTION\] ZTA CONTINUETOP, SUBJ, OBJCf2:  \[MITIKO, HANAKO, SOLUTION\] RETAINSUBJ, OBJ2, OBJ24 While some of the utterance sequences we examine are potentially ambiguous for native speakers, theexamination of these discourse situations offers considerable insight into those where there is noambiguity.25 We only look at object opics here but there may be limits as to how lowly ranked on the Cf an entitycan be and still be the zero topic, e.g.
by-passive agentive.216Marilyn Walker et al Japanese Discoursed.
0 0 ohiru ni sasoimasita.SUBJ OBJ lunch to invited(Hanako) invited (Mitiko) to lunch.Cbl:Cfl:HANAKO\[HANAKO, LUNCH, MITIKO\] CONTINUE from Cfl(c) 28SUBJ, OBJ2, OBJCb2: MITIKOCf2: \[MITIKO, LUNCH, HANAKO\] SMOOTH-SHIFT from Cf2(c) 6SUBJ, OBJ2, OBJThe possibility of ambiguity as to the attentional state of the speaker is reflectedin the fact that there are two possible Cfs for example 32c; Cf2 of 32c is the onlyCf possible without ZTA, and represents a RETAIN rather than a CONTINUE.
By theformulation of the ZTA rule above, ZTA is triggered by the fact that no CONTINUEtransition is available.The availability of ZTA means that HANAKO can be the Cp even when MITIKO isrealized as the subject.
This leads to a potential ambiguity in example 32d, because itis possible for a hearer to simultaneously entertain both of the Cf(32c).
In this case theZTA interpretation is preferred (Z = 4.95, p < .001).
The less preferred SMOOTH-SHIFTinterpretation would result from the algorithm's application to Cf2 of 32c.
26ZTA explains the contrast between the discourse segments,in examples 32 aboveand 33 below.
The only difference between 32 and 33 is that in 32c, MITIKO is a ga-marked subject, whereas in 33c, MITIKO is a wa-marked subject/grammatical topic.Utterances 32c and 33c have the same meaning.
This minimal pair provides a test tosee whether ZTA actually characterizes these discourse related effects.Example 33a.
Hanako wa siken o oete, kyoositu ni modorimasita.Hanako  TOP/SUBJ exam OBJ finish classroom to returnedHanako returned to the classroom, finishing her exams.Cb: HANAKO \[Cf: \[HANAKO, EXAM\]b.
0 hon o locker ni simaimasita.SUBJ book OBJ locker in took-away(Hanako) put (her) books in the locker.Cb: HANAKO \[Cf: \[HANAKO, BOOK\] CONTINUEC.
Itumo no yooni Mitiko wa 0 mondai no tokikata oalways like TOP/SUBJ Mitiko OBJ2 problem solve-way OBJsettrmeisidasimasita.explainedMitiko, as usual, started explaining (to Hanako) how to solve the problems.Cb: HANAKOCfl: \[HANAKO, MITIKO, SOLUTION\] ZTA CONTINUETOP, SUBJ, OBJCf2: \[MITIKO, HANAKO, SOLUTION\] RETAINTOP, OBJ2, OBJ26 See Section 2for an example ofhow a smooth-shift in erpretation s calculated.217Computational Linguistics Volume 20, Number 2d.
0 0 ohiru ni sasoimasita.SUBJ OBJ lunch to invited(Hanako) invited (Mitiko) to lunch.
(Mitiko) invited (Hanako) to lunch.Cbl: HANAKOCf2: \[HANAKO, LUNCH, MIT1KO\] CONTINUE from Cfl(c) 18SUBJ, OBJ2, OBJCb2: MITIKOCf2: \[MITIKO, LUNCH, HANAKO \] SMOOTH-SHIFT f rom Cf2(c)  16SUBJ, OBJ2, OBJThe wa marking has the predicted effect.
Using the grammatical topic marker wa inexample 33c dampens ZTA and thus affects the interpretation f example 33d, which isnow completely ambiguous (Z = 0.34, not significantly different than chance).
Becausethe discourse ntity realized as the grammatical topic and indicated by the wa-markedNP is the Cp by default, ten subjects who previously did so can no longer get aninterpretation that depends on ZTA.
It seems that the situation can be characterizedas a case of competing defaults, so that in example 33, some hearers apply the defaultthat the wa-marked entity is the Cp, and others apply the default that CONTINUEinterpretations are preferred and that zeros realize discourse ntities that are rankedhighly on the Cf.The RETA1N interpretation i  example 33c, Cf2, indicates that these hearers expectthe conversation to shift to being about Mitiko; the fact that Mitiko is the Cp(33c),along with constraint 3 will force a shift.
Given a SHIFT, the Mitiko invited Hanako tolunch interpretation is preferred because it is the more highly ranked SMOOTH-SHIFTtransition.
27These examples clearly show that the wa-rnarked NP is not always the Cp and sup-port Shibatani's claim that the interpretation f wa depends on the discourse context(Shibatani 1990).
The astute reader will have noticed that in the cases where Hanakois a zero topic, the wa-marked Mitiko discourse ntity is ranked according to gram-matical function.
We conjecture that an inference of contrast is supported when thegrammatical topic is not the Cp.The following section discusses the interaction of ZTA with empathy.
Then inSection 5.2, we discuss further the ramifications ofour distinction between grammaticaland zero topic.5.1 Empathy and Zero Topic AssignmentThis section investigates the interaction of EMPATHY and ZERO TOPIC ASSIGNMENT (ZTA).The discourse segment in example 34 is a minimal pair with that in example 35.
In34d the main verb is setumeisita ('explain') without any EMPATHY marking, whereasin 35d, the same sentence occurs with an auxiliary empathy verb as setumeisitekureta.Remember that kureta marks the OBJ or OBJ2 as the EMPATHY LOCUS.27 If MITIKO could represent a topic object in 33d, there would be another equally ranked SMOOTH-SHIFTinterpretation for 33d.
However, according to the formulation of ZERO TOPIC ASSIGNMENT, MITIKO cannotbe a zero topic because it was not the Cb of the previous utterance, 33c.218Marilyn Walker et al Japanese DiscourseExample 34a.
Taroo wa deeta o konpyuutaa ni utikondeimasita.Taroo TOP/SUBJ data OBJ computer in was-storingTaroo was storing the data in a computer.Cb: TAROOCf: \[TAROO, DATA\]b.
0 yatto hanbun yari-owarimasita.SUBJ finally half do-finishedFinally (Taroo) was half inished.Cb: TAROOCf: \[TAROO\] CONTINUEc.
Ziroo ga 0 hurui deeta o misemasita.Ziroo SUBJ OBJ2 old data OBJ showedZiroo showed (Taroo) some old data.d.Cb: TAROOCfl: \[TAROO, ZIROO, DATA\] ZTA CONTINUETOP, SUBJ, OBJCf2: \[ZIROO, TAROO\] RETAINSUBJ, OBJ2, OBJ0 0 ikutuka no kuitigai o setumeisimasita.SUBJ OBJ2 several of differences OBJ explained(Ziroo) explained several differences to (Taroo).
(Taroo) explained several differences to (Ziroo).Cbl:  TAROOCfl: \[TAROO, ZIROO, DIFFERENCES\] CONTINUE from Cfl(c) 12SUBJ, OBJ2, OBJCb2: ZTROOCf2: \[ZIROO, TAROO, DIFFERENCES\] SMOOTH-SHIFT from Cf2(c) 22SUBJ, OBJ2, OBJThe interpretations of example 34d show that it is possible for some subjects tointerpret Taroo as the zero topic in example 34c.
This is possible because Taroo was boththe Cp and the Cb for 34a and 34b.
The two Cfs of 34c reflect multiple possibilities inattentional state.
28 The competing defaults consist of the assumption that ZTA applies,versus the assumption that subjects are more highly ranked than objects on the Cf.
Inthis case no preference between the two interpretations can be demonstrated (Z = 1.79,not significant).Example 35 is a minimal pair with example 34.
In 35d, the speaker provides moresyntactic information by using the empathy verb kureta to indicate that the discourseentity realized as the OBJECT2 is the EMPATHY lOCUS.Example 35a.
Taroo wa deeta o konpyuutaa ni utikondeimasita.Taroo TOP/SUBJ data OBJ computer in was-storingTaroo was storing the data in a computer.28 Although both possibilities have the same semantic nterpretation.219Computational Linguistics Volume 20, Number 2Cb: TAROOCf: \[TARO0, DATA lb.
0 yatto hanbun yari-owarimasita.SUBJ finally half do-finishedFinally (Taroo) was half inished.Cb: TAROOCf: \[TARO0\] CONTINUEc.
Ziroo ga 0 hurui deeta o misemasita.Ziroo SUBJ OBJ2 old data OBJ showedZiroo showed (Taroo) some old data.d.Cb: TAROOCfl: \[TAROO, ZIROO, DATA\] ZTA CONTINUETOP, SUBJ, OBJCf2: \[ZIROO, TAROO, DATA\] RETAINSUBJ, OBJ2, OBJ0 0 ikutuka no kuitigai o setumeisite-KURE-masita.SUBJ OBJ2/EMP several of differences OBJ explained-gave(Ziroo) did (Taroo) a favor of explaining several differences.Cbl: TAROOCfl: \[TAROO, ZIROO, DIFFERENCES\] CONTINUE from Cfl(c) 33EMP-OBJ2, SUBJ, OBJCb2: ZIROOCf2: \[ZIROO, TAROO, DIFFERENCES\] SMOOTH-SHIFT from Cf2(c) 1EMP-OBJ2, SUBJ, OBJEmpathy associates with the previous Cb to yield a CONTINUE transition, andthe interpretation changes o that the utterance is no longer ambiguous (Z = 16.24,p < .001).
In this case it is possible to interpret both example 35c and example 35das CONTINUES by assuming ZTA at 35c.
This example also validates ZTA becauseempathy associates with the zero topic (Kuno 1976b, 1987).
Furthermore, this minimalpair highlights aspects of the interaction between syntax and inference.
The fact thatthe empathy verb in 35d is the only difference between examples 34 and 35 shows thatthe preference in interpretation does not follow from inferences based on informationabout who is likely to explain what to whom, depending on who showed ?who thedata, or whether the data is new or old.Example 36 contrasts minimally with example 35 but on another dimension.
In thiscase, 36c is a CONTINUE with Taroo realized in subject position, rather than a CONTINUEbased on ZTA.
The Ziroo explained to Taroo interpretation is again clearly preferred hereas in 35d (Z = 3.638, p < .001).Example 36a.
Taroo wa deeta o konpyuutaa ni utikondeimasita.Taroo TOP/SUBJ data OBJ computer in was-storingTaroo was storing the data in a computer.\[ Cb: \[TAROO\] \[Cf: \[TAROO, data\]220Marilyn Walker et al Japanese Discourseb.C.d.0 yatto hanbun yari-owarimasita.SUBJ finally half do-finishedFinally (Taroo) was half inished.Cb: TAROO \[Cf: \[TAROO\] CONTINUE0 Ziroo ni hurui deeta o misemasita.SUBJ Ziroo OBJ2 old data OBJ showed(Taroo) showed Ziroo some old data.Cb: TAROOCfl: \[TAROO, ZIROO, DATA\] CONTINUESUBJ, OBJ2, OBJ0 0 ikutuka no kuitigai o setumeisite-KURE-masita.SUBJ OBJ2/EMP several of differences OBJ explained-gave(Ziroo) did (Taroo) a favor of explaining several differences.Cbl: TAROOCfl: \[TAROO, ZIROO, DIFFERENCES\] CONTINUE 26EMP-OBJ2, SUBJ, OBJCf2: \[ZIROO, TAROO, DIFFERENCES\] RETAIN 8EMP-OBJ2, SUBJ, OBJIn 36 as in 35, EMPATHY associates with the previous Cb, ie.
Taroo.
This followsfrom the ordering of the Cf and hearers' preferences for a CONTINUE interpretation.Note that the interpretation f the last utterance in example 36d remains the sameas that in example 35d, although in this case it is Taroo that shows Ziroo some olddata in example 36c; nevertheless Ziroo is the one who does the explaining.
It seemsthat inference from world knowledge and domain information alone is unlikely topredict which interpretations hearers will prefer.
Inferential processes and discoursestructure are mutually constraining (Joshi and Weinstein 1981; Nadathur and Joshi1983; Hudson-D'Zmura 1988).5.2 SummaryWe proposed a discourse rule of ZERO TOPIC ASSIGNMENT and showed that ZTA isconditioned by the rules and constraints of centering theory: (1) ZTA only applies todiscourse ntities that were previously the Cb; (2) ZTA is constrained to cases wherethe only transition available otherwise would be a RETAIN.ZTA arises from the interaction between preferences for CONTINUE transitions (Rule2) and the fact that Cbs are often zeros (Rule 1).
The interaction of these two factorsleads to the speculation that when the Cb is realized by a pronoun in a lower rankedCf position, which gives rise to a RETAIN transition state, that this type of transitionis inherently ambiguous.
Since different factors contribute to the salience of discourseentities, such as 'subjecthood' and 'pronominalization' (Grosz, Joshi, and Weinsteinunpublished), conflicting defaults can arise when these are in conflict with one another.This may be especially true in Japanese since another factor that should contribute toCf ranking, word order, is not present whenever zeros are involved.These examples highlight he relation between centering and global coherencein discourse.
A RETAIN is proposed as a way for a speaker to mark a coordinatedtransition to a new topic; it predicts a shift (Grosz, Joshi, and Weinstein unpublished;Brennan, Friedman, and Pollard 1987).
However, the way in which centering SHIFTtransitions are related to larger structures in discourse has not been specified.
If a221Computational Linguistics Volume 20, Number 2shift functions as a boundary between segments (Walker 1993b), then the hearer'sapplication of ZTA means that the hearer is assuming that the next utterance will bepart of the same discourse segment.
In contrast, a hearer's assumption that the currentcentering transition is a RETAIN means that the hearer assumes that the next utterancewill begin a new discourse segment.The relationship between segmentation a d hearer's preferences for ZTA or RE-TAIN interpretations may be affected by other discourse factors.
Among these factors,intonation may indicate whether the current utterance should be taken as initiating anew segment and predicting a SHIFT, or continuing the previous one (Silverman 1987;Cahn, 1992; Swerts and Geluykens 1992; Walker and Prince 1994).
Another factor maybe the inferred relationship that holds between adjacent utterances such as whetherit is possible to interpret (d) as Ziroo's reason for having done (c) (Hobbs 1985b).However this is clearly not the only factor, or even necessarily the dominant one, aswe have demonstrated.
Future research must provide additional constraints on whenZTA is applicable.6.
Related ResearchOther researchers working on the interpretation f anaphors have focused on the roleof inference from world knowledge (Hobbs 1985b, 1979).
While it is important to eluci-date the information eeded for inference and the type of inferential process involvedin discourse interpretation, it is clear from our examples that syntactic realization hasa strong effect on the interpretive process and provides processing constraints on in-ferential processes.
We have focused on the interaction between syntax and inference.Our treatment of Japanese discourse phenomena builds on earlier work by Kuno(Kuno 1972, 1973, 1987, 1989).
Our Cf ranking is consistent with Kuno's Empathy andTopic Hierarchies and we incorporate a number of Kuno's observations on the functionof the grammatical topic marker wa and the role of zeros.
We have also incorporatedKuno's notion of EMPATHY by using EMPATHY in the Cf ranking (Kuno 1976a; Kunoand Kaburaki 1977).In recent work, Kuno proposes an algorithmic account of the interpretation ofzeros.
He claims that there are two types of zero pronouns, PSEUDO-ZERO-PRONOUNSand REAL-ZERO-PRONOUNS (Kuno 1989).
REAL-ZERO-PRONOUNS are supposed to have awa-marked NP or a presentational NP as an antecedent (Yoshimoto 1988).
PSEUDO-ZERO-PRONOUNS are actually examples of deletion, and must follow the same order and thesame syntactic function as their source NPs.
They must obey constraints on deletionsuch as Kuno's Pecking Order of Deletion Principle: Delete less important informationfirst and more important information last.
According to Kuno, the position just to theleft of the verb is the default focus position in Japanese, unless the verb itself is thefocus.
Therefore, since the verb in example 37b is the information focus, the zeros areassumed to be PSEUDO-ZERO-PRONOUNS.Example 37a.
Taroo ga Hanako ni nani o sita no desu ka.Taroo SUBJ Hanako to what OBJ do COMP COPULA QWhat did Taroo do to Hanako?b.
0 0 kisu o sita no desu.kiss OBJ did COMP COPULA(lit.)
(Taroo) did a kissing (to Hanako).222Marilyn Walker et al Japanese DiscourseThe combination of these two types of zeros can explain examples like the follow-ing:Example 38a.
Taroo wab.C.Hanako ga sukida.Taroo TOP/SUBJ Hanako fond-of-isTaroo likes Hanako.Ziroo wa Natuko ga sukida.Ziroo TOP/SUBJ Natuko fond-of-isZiroo likes Natuko.0 Saburoo mo sukida.Saburoo also fond-of-is(Ziroo) also likes Saburoo.
*Saburoo also likes (Natuko).Kuno's account reats Ziroo in example 38c as a REAL-ZERO-PRONOUN.
In this casewe would predict the preferred interpretation based on our distinction between CON-TINUE and RETAIN.
However, consider the following example:Example 39a.
Taroo wab.Hanako ga sukida.Taroo TOP/SUBJ Hanako fond-of-isTaroo likes Hanako.Ziroo wa kirai da.Ziroo TOP/SUBJ 0 fond-of-is(Taroo) dislikes Ziroo.Ziroo dislikes (Hanako).
*Ziroo dislikes (Taroo).The Taroo dislikes Ziroo interpretation would be an example of ZTA.
However, wewould predict that the Ziroo dislikes Hanako interpretation would be dispreferred, butthis does not seem to be the case.
Kuno's analysis treats the zero in the second readingof example 39b as a PSEUDO-ZERO-PRONOUN, which means that it must be interpretedas Hanako since Hanako was the object of the previous utterance.The interpretation of 39b that we would predict as possible would be the Ziroodislikes Taroo (RETAIN), which native speakers rarely get.
However, Kuno's analysis doesnot block this reading either; the zero in 39b could also be a REAL-ZERO-PRONOUN, withTaroo as its antecedent.
Kuno says that this interpretation is dispreferred because of apreference for parallel interpretation (Grober, Beardsley, and Caramazza 1978; Sidner1979; Kameyama 1988; Kuno 1989).
We have claimed here and elsewhere (Brennan,Friedman, and Pollard 1987; Walker, Iida, and Cote 1990) that the preference for paral-lelism is an epiphenomenon f the ordering of the Cf and the preference for CONTINUEinterpretations.Our account cannot explain the contrast between examples 38 and 39.
It seems thatwhat is at issue here is the fact that a set of discourse ntities plus an open propositionsuch as X likes Y is what is discourse-old in these examples and not just a discourseentity (Prince 1981a, 1986, 1992).
Our conclusion is that these enumerated lists andquestion-answer discourse segments may need an account of discourse center that isbroader than that needed for discourse ntities realized as NPS.
Ktmo's constraints on223Computational Linguistics Volume 20, Number 2deletion must also be integrated to fully explain when entities or propositions in thediscourse may be unexpressed.Our analysis also builds on an earlier analysis put forth by Kameyama (Kameyama1985, 1986, 1988).
Although Kameyama uses the centering terminology, her accountis not based on the constraints and rules of centering theory as developed here andpresented in (Grosz, Joshi, and Weinstein 1983, unpublished; Brennan, Friedman, andPollard 1987).
Kameyama proposed that the interpretation of zeros in Japanese de-pends on a default preference hierarchy of syntactic properties to be shared betweenthe antecedent and the zero (Grober, Beardsley, and Caramazza 1978).
Kameyama'saccount of zero interpretation consists roughly of a PROPERTY-SHARING CONSTRAINT,henceforth PS, and an EXPECTED CENTER ORDER, henceforth ECO, which may be para-phrased as follows:PROPERTY-SHARING CONSTRAINT: Two zero-pronouns in adjacent utter-ances, which co-specify the same Cb-encoding discourse ntity, shouldshare one of the following properties (in descending order of prefer-ence): 1) both IDENT and SUBJECT, 2) IDENT alone, 3) SUBJECT-alone, 4)both NONIDENT and NONSUBJECT, 5) NONSUBJECT alone, or 6) NONIDENTalone.EXPECTED CENTER ORDER RULE: In a sentence that contains a center-establishing zero, if it is to have a full NP as its antecedent, the defaultpreference order among its potential antecedent NPs is: Topic > Ident> Subject > Object(2) > Others.As noted earlier, we use a modified version of Kameyama's EXPECTED CENTERORDER as the ordering of the Cf, but Kameyama's treatment differs from ours in anumber of respects.First, Kameyama used the property IDENT to describe something similar to Kuno'snotion of EMPATHY, and has an added assumption of a SUBJECT IDENT default, i.e.subjects are considered to be EMPATHY loci by default.
This means that her theory alsoincludes a neutralization device for cases where this default is not in effect (Kameyama1988).
In contrast, our theory explains examples covered by the SUBJECT IDENT defaultby including EMPATHY in the ranking of the Cf list and by the distinction betweenCONTINUE and RETAIN, as illustrated in example 24.We have also expanded Kameyama's treatment of TOPIC.
We have elucidated theinteraction of topic with subject and empathy markers and supported our claim thatthe topic marker wa functions imilarly to pronominalization i instantiating the Cb.In addition, ZTA and the distinction that we make between grammatical and zerotopic is new to our account.Furthermore, since Center Instantiation is a side effect of the application of thecentering algorithm, we treat 40c and 41c with the same mechanism.
In Kameyama'sanalysis, the PS constraint applies to example 40, while the ECO applies in example 41.Example 40a.
Hanako wab.repooto o kakimasita.Hanako TOP/SUBJ report OBJ wroteHanako wrote a report.0 Taroo ni aini-ikimasita.SUBJ-IDENT Taroo OBJ2 see-wentShe went to see Taroo.224Marilyn Walker et al Japanese DiscourseC.
Taroo wa 0 kibisiku hihansimasita.Taroo TOP/SUBJ OBJ severely criticizedTaroo severely criticized her.Example 41a.
Hanako wa Taroo ni aini-kimasita.Hanako TOP/SUBJ Taroo OBJ2 see-cameHanako came to see Taroo.b.
Taroo wa 0 hon o yonde-kure-masita.Taroo TOP/SUBJ OBJ2 book OBI read-gaveTaroo did her a flavor of reading a book.Note that we annotate xample 40b with Kameyama's IDENT property, which cor-responds to EMPATHY.
Kameyama's account predicts that there are different processesgoing on in the resolution of zeros depending on the environments where the zeroappears.
PS applies in the case of example 40c because the previous utterance has azero, but it doesn't apply in the case of example 41b.
PS would seem to predict hatthe zero pronoun in 40c should not be interpreted as Hanako, since the zero carries theproperties \[SuBJ, IDENT\] in 40b and \[NONSUBJ, NONIDENT\] in 40c.
In other words, noneof the required properties of SUBJ, IDENT, NONSUBJ, NONIDENT, which 'should' be sharedaccording to the PS constraint, are shared.
But in fact 40c is perfectly acceptable underthe intended reading of Taroo severely criticized Hanako, and 41b is likewise acceptableunder the reading Taroo did Hanako a favor of reading a book.Also, as pointed out in Kuno (1989), Kameyama's theory makes no predictionsabout the interpretation f some of the zeros in examples uch as 5, repeated here forconvenience as example 42.Example 42a.
Taroo wab.C.saisin no konpyuutaa o kaimasita.TOP/SUBJ newest of computer OBJ boughtTaroo bought a new model of computer.Cb: TAROOCf: \[TAROO, COMPUTER\]0 John ni sassoku sore o misemasita.SUBJ John OBJ2 at once that OBJ showed(Taroo) showed it to John.Cb: TAROOCf: \[TAROO, JOHN, COMPUTER\] CONTINUE0 0 atarasiku sonawatta kinoo o setumeisimasita.SUBJ OBJ2 newly equipped function OBJ explained(Taroo) explained the newly equipped functions to (John).Cb: TAROOCfl: \[TAROO, JOHN\] CONTINUE 27SUBJ OBJCf2: \[JOHN, TAROO\] RETAIN 1SUBJ OBJ225Computational Linguistics Volume 20, Number 2The PS Constraint applies only to two zeros in adjacent sentences, and the ECOapplies only when a Cb is to be established.
Example 42c is not a Cb-establishingutterance since the Cb ha s already been established in 42b, so the ECO should notapply.
The PS constraint does apply and predicts that the subject zero must have thesubject of 42b as its antecedent, but the theory makes no predictions about he possibleinterpretations for the zero object.Many of the examples that are explained in Kameyama's theory by the PS con-straint are handled on our account by the distinction between CONTINUE and RETAIN.However, there are a number of cases where PS makes different predictions than ouraccount.
In particular, note that for examples 32 and 35, Kameyama's SUBJECT IDENTdefault makes exactly the opposite prediction.
Example 35 is repeated below as exam-ple 43 and annotated with the SUBJECT IDENT default feature.Example 43a.
Taroo wa deeta o konpyuutaa ni utikondeimasita.Taroo TOP/SUBJ data OBJ computer in was-storingTaroo was storing the data in a computer.b.
0 yatto hanbun yari-owarimasita.SUBJ/IDENT finally half do-finishedFinally he was half Ji"nished.C.
Ziroo ga 0 hurui deeta o misemasita.Ziroo SUBJ/IDENT OBJ2 old data OBJ showedZiroo showed him some old data.d.
0 0 ikutuka no kuitigai o setumeisite-KURE-masita.SUBJ OBJ2/IDENT several of differences OBJ explained-gave(Ziroo) did (Taroo) a favor of explaining several di~erences.According to PS, the interpretation i which the property IDENT is shared is pre-ferred to the one with SUBJECT shared, and hence, the interpretation Taroo did Ziroo afavor in explaining several d~ferences i preferred.
However our survey shows that nativespeakers prefer the Ziroo did Taroo a favor reading; this is explained by our discourserule of ZTA and by including empathy in the ranking of the Cf list.7.
Conclusion and Future WorkIn this paper, we have attempted to elucidate the interaction of syntactic realizationand discourse salience in Japanese using the discourse-processing framework of CEN-TERING.
In our theory discourse salience is operationalized by the ranking of the for-ward centers for an utterance.
We explored speakers' options for indicating saliencein Japanese discourse, especially the interaction of discourse markers for TOPIC andEMPATHY.
We then posited a ranking and used it to explain some facts about the in-terpretation of zeros in Japanese.While there is clearly a correlation between syntax and discourse function, weshow that discourse context plays an important role.
We proposed a discourse rule ofZERO TOPIC ASSIGNMENT (ZTA), which distinguishes grammatical and zero topic.
Weshowed that centering allows us to formalize constraints on when ZTA can apply.However, future work must determine additional constraints on when ZTA applies,and which language families support ZTA.226Marilyn Walker et al Japanese DiscourseThe preferred interpretation of zeros and the discourse factors that are responsiblefor each interpretation are summarized below.
Remember that in each case the zeroin the third utterance was established as the Cb by the previous two utterances:Third Utterance Fourth Utterance Discourse Factor ExampleSUBJECT OBJECT(2) SUBJECT OBJECT(2)zero(i) NP(j) zero(i) zero(j) Continue/Retain 5zero(i) NP(j)NP(ga)(i) zero(j)NP(wa)(i) zero(j)NP(ga)(i) zero(j)zero(j) zero(i),empathyzero(j)zero(i)zero(j)zero(i)empathy, Continue/Retain 36zero(i) ZTA 32, 3433 zero(j)zero(i)WA-effectZTAZTA and empathy zero(j),empathy 35This analysis suggests that centering may be a universal of context-dependentprocessing of language, although so far this theory has only been applied to English,German, Turkish, Japanese, and Italian (Brennan, Friedman, and Pollard 1987; Walker1989; Walker, Iida, and Cote 1990; Di Eugenio 1990; Cote 1992; Rambow 1993; Nakatani1993; Hofhnan 1995; Turan 1995).
We proposed that the centering component of a the-ory of discourse interpretation can be constructed in a language-independent fashion,up to the declaration of a language-specific value for one parameter of the theory, i.e.,Cf ranking (as in Section 2).
This parameter is language-dependent because differentlanguages offer different means of expressing discourse function.
We conjecture thatZTA may apply in any free-word order language with zeros.Future work must examine the interaction between centering and discourse seg-mentation in both monologue and dialogue (Whittaker and Stenton 1988; Walker andWhittaker 1990; Walker 1993b), and the role of deictics, lexical semantics, one anaphora,and propositional discourse ntities in centering (Webber 1978; Sidner 1979; Walker1992, 1993a; Cote 1995).
It is also important o examine the interaction of zeros withovert pronouns and with deictics and the interaction of pronominalization with ac-centing (Terken 1995).
In addition, the semantic theory underlying centering must befurther developed (Roberts 1995).
Finally, centering transitions are currently definedby an equality relation between discourse ntities, but POSET relations and functionaldependencies often link entities in discourse (Prince 1978b, 1981a; Ward 1985; Grosz,Joshi, and Weinstein unpublished).
The predictions made here should also be testedon a large corpus of naturally occurring Japanese discourse (Hurewitz and Linson1995).AcknowledgmentsWe would like to thank Aravind Joshi andEllen Prince for their insight, usefuldiscussions, and support for making itpossible to have the workshop on CenteringTheory in Naturally-Occurring Discourse atthe Institute for Cognitive Science at theUniversity of Pennsylvania.
In addition,discussions with Dave Bernstein, SusanBrennan, Hitoshi Isahara, MegumiKameyama, Susumu Kuno, ChristineNakatani, Hiday Nakashima, Carl Pollard,Owen Rainbow, Peter Sells, MikeTanenhaus, Bonnie Webber, and SteveWhittaker contributed to the developmentof this work.
We would also like to thankthe anonymous reviewers who providedmany helpful suggestions.
NSF's SummerScience and Engineering Institute in Japanmade it possible to present this work andreceive useful feedback at ICOT, JEIDAworking group on Machine Translation,NTT's Basic Research Labs, and ATR'sInterpreting Telephony Lab.
We would also227Computational Linguistics Volume 20, Number 2like to thank the readers ofcomp.research.japanese and sci.lang.japanwho participated in our survey.This research was partially funded byNSF Science and Engineering Award for theSummer Institute in Japan, by ARO grantDAAL03-89-C-0031, DARPA grantN00014-90-J-1863, NSF grant IRI90-16592,and Ben Franklin grant 91S.3078C-1 at theUniversity of Pennsylvania, nd by HewlettPackard Laboratories.ReferencesBrennan, Susan E. (submitted).
Centeringattention in discourse.Brennan, Susan E.; Friedman \[Walker\],Marilyn W.; and Pollard, Carl J.
(1987).
"A centering approach to pronouns."
InProceedings, 25th Annual Meeting of the ACL,Stanford, 155-162.Cahn, Janet (1992).
An investigation i to thecorrelation of cue phrases, unfilled pausesand the structuring of spoken discourse.In Workshop on Prosody in Natural Speech,19-31.
Institute for Research in CognitiveScience, University of Pennsylvania, TRIRCS-92-37.Carter, David M. (1987).
InterpretingAnaphors in Natural Language Texts.
EllisHorwood.Clancy, Patricia M., and Downing, Pamela(1987).
"The use of wa as a cohesionmarker in Japanese oral narratives."
InPerspectives in Topicalization: The Case ofJapanese Wa, 3-56.
Academic Press.Clark, Herbert H., and Haviland, Susan E.(1977).
"Comprehension a d thegiven-new contract."
Discourse Productionand Comprehension, edited byR.
O. Freedle, 1-40.
Ablex Publishing.Clark, Herbert H., and Marshall, CatherineR.
(1981).
"Definite reference and mutualknowledge."
In Elements of DiscourseUnderstanding, edited by Joshi, Webber,and Sag, 10-63.
Cambridge UniversityPress.Cote, Sharon (1992).
"Discourse functions oftwo types of null objects in English."
InLinguistic Society of America AnnualMeeting, 12.Cote, Sharon (in press).
Rankingforward-looking centers.
In MarilynA.
Walker, Aravind K. Joshi, and EllenE Prince, editors, Centering in Discourse.Oxford University Press.Di Eugenio, Barbara (1990).
"Centeringtheory and the italian pronominalsystem."
In Proceedings, 13th InternationalConference on Computational Linguistics,(COLING-90), 270-275.Gordon, Peter C.; Grosz, Barbara J.; andGilliom, Laura A.
(1993).
"Pronouns,names and the centering of attention indiscourse."
Cognitive Science, 17-3,311-348.Grober, Ellen H.; Beardsley, William; andCaramazza, Alfonso (1978).
"Parallelfunction strategy in pronounassignment."
Cognition, 6, 117-131.Grosz, Barbara J.
(1977).
"The representationand use of focus in dialogueunderstanding."
Technical Report 151, SRIInternational, 333 Ravenswood Ave,Menlo Park CA 94025.Grosz, Barbara J., and Sidner, Candace L.(1986).
"Attentions, intentions and thestructure of discourse."
ComputationalLinguistics, 12, 175-204.Grosz, Barbara J.; Joshi, Aravind K.; andWeinstein, Scott (1983).
"Providing aunified account of definite noun phrasesin discourse."
In Proceedings, 21st AnnualMeeting of the Association for ComputationalLinguistics, 44-50.Grosz, Barbara J.; Joshi, Aravind K.; andWeinstein, Scott (unpublished).
Towards acomputational theory of discourseinterpretation.Hajicova, Eva, and Vrbova, Jarka (1982).
"On the role of the hierarchy of activationin the process of natural anguageunderstanding."
In Proceedings, 9thInternational Conference on ComputationalLinguistics (COLING-84).
Prague, 107-113.Hasegawa, Nobuko (1984).
"On theso-called zero pronouns in Japanese."
TheLinguistic Review, 289-341.Hobbs, Jerry R. (1976a).
"A computationalapproach to discourse analysis."
TechnicalReport 76-2, Department of ComputerScience, City College, City University ofNew York.Hobbs, Jerry R. (1976b).
"Pronounresolution."
Technical Report 76-1,Department of Computer Science, CityCollege, City University of New York.Hobbs, Jerry R. (1979).
"Coherence andcoreference."
Coginitive Science, 3, 67-90.Hobbs, Jerry R. (1985a).
"The logicalnotation: Ontological promiscuity,"Chapter 2 of Discourse and Inference.Technical report, SRI International, 333Ravenswood Ave., Menlo Park CA 94025.Hobbs, Jerry R. (1985b).
"On the coherenceand structure of discourse."
TechnicalReport CSLI-85-37, Center for the Studyof Language and Information, VenturaHall, Stanford University.Hobbs, Jerry R., and Martin, Paul (1987).
"Local pragmatics."
Technical report, SRIInternational, 333 Ravenswood Ave.,228Marilyn Walker et al Japanese DiscourseMenlo Park CA 94025.Hobbs, Jerry R.; Croft, William; Davies,Todd; Edwards, Douglas; and Laws,Kenneth (1987).
"The tacituscommonsense knowledge base."
Technicalreport, SRI International, 333Ravenswood Ave., Menlo Park CA 94025.Hoffman, Beryl (in press).
Word order,information structure and centering inturkish.
In Marilyn A. Walker, AravindK.
Joshi, and Ellen F. Prince, editors,Centering in Discourse.
Oxford UniversityPress.Horn, Laurence R. (1986).
"Presupposition,theme and variations."
In ChicagoLinguistic Society, 22, 168-192.Hudson-D'Zmura, Susan, and Tanenhaus,Michael K. (in press).
Assigningantecedents to ambiguous pronouns: Therole of the center of attention as thedefault assignment.
In Marilyn A. Walker,Aravind K. Joshi, and Ellen F. Prince,editors, Centering in Discourse.
OxfordUniversity Press.Hudson-D'Zmura, Susan B.
(1988).
Thestructure of discourse and anaphor resolution:The discourse center and the roles of nouns andpronouns.
Doctoral dissertation.
Universityof Rochester.Hurewitz, Felicia, and Linson, Brian (inpress).
A quantitative look at discoursecoherence.
In Marilyn A. Walker, AravindK.
Joshi, and Ellen F. Prince, editors,Centering in Discourse.
Oxford UniversityPress.Iida, Masayo (1993).
Context and binding inJapanese.
Doctoral dissertation, LinguisticsDepartment, Stanford University.Joshi, Aravind K. (1982).
"Mutual beliefs inquestion-answer systems."
In MutualKnowledge, dited by Nell V. Smith,181-199.
Academic Press.Joshi, Aravind K., and Kuhn, Steve (1979).
"Centered logic: The role of entitycentered sentence representation innatural anguage inferencing."
InProceedings, International Joint Conference onArtificial Intelligence, 435-439.Joshi, Aravind K., and Weinstein, Scott(1981).
"Control of inference: Role of someaspects of discourse structure centering.
"In Proceeding S International Joint Conferenceon Artificial Intelligence, 385--387.Kameyama, Megumi (1985).
Zero anaphora:the case of Japanese.
Doctoral dissertation,Linguistics Department, StanfordUniversity.Kameyama, Megumi (1986).
"Aproperty-sharing constraint in centering.
"In Proceedings, 24th Annual Meeting of theAssociation for Computational Linguistics,New York, 200-206.Kameyama, Megumi (1988).
"Japanese zeropronominal binding, where syntax anddiscourse meet."
In Papers from the SecondInternational Workshop on Japanese Syntax,edited by William Poser, 47-74.
Stanford:CSLI.Kuno, Susumu (1972).
"Pronominalization,reflexivization, and direct discourse.
"Linguistic Inquiry, 3, 161-195.Kuno, Susumu (1973).
The Structure of theJapanese Language.
The MIT Press.Kuno, Susumu (1976a).
"The speaker'sempathy and its effects of syntax: Are-examination f yaru and kureru inJapanese."
Journal of the Association ofTeachers of Japanese, 11, 249-271.Kuno, Susumu (1976b).
"Subject, theme andspeaker's empathy: A reexamination frelativization phenomena."
In Subject andTopic, edited by C. Li, 417-444.
AcademicPress.Kuno, Susumu (1987).
Functional Syntax.Chicago University Press.Kuno, Susumu (1989).
"Identification ofzero-pronominal reference in Japanese.
"Unpublished manuscript.
Presented atATR workshop on Machine Translation.Kuno, Susumu, and Kaburaki, Etsuko(1977).
"Empathy and syntax."
LinguisticInquiry, 8, 627--672.Kuroda, Sige-Yuki (1965).
Generativegrammatical studies in the Japanese language.Doctoral dissertation, MIT.Martin, Samuel (1976).
A Reference Grammarof Japanese.
Yale University Press.Nadathur, Gopalan, and Joshi, Aravind K.(1983).
"Mutual beliefs in conversationalsystems: Their role in referringexpressions."
In Proceedings, InternationalJoint Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Austin, TX, 603-605.Nakagawa, Hiroshi (1992).
"Zero pronounsas experiencer in Japanese discourse."
InProceedings, Fourteenth InternationalConference on Computational Linguistics,324--330.Nakashima, Hideyuki (1990).
"Commonsense r asoning with multiplyembedded contexts."
In Pacific RimConference on Artificial Intelligence, 414-419.Nakatani, Christine H. (1993).
Global andlocal functions of topic marking injapanese.
In Institute for Research inCognitive Science Workshop on CenteringTheory in Natural-Occurring Discourse.Prince, Ellen F. (1978a).
"On the function ofexistential presupposition i  discourse.
"In Papers from the 14th Regional Meeting.CLS, Chicago IL.Prince, Ellen E (1978b).
"On the function of229Computational Linguistics Volume 20, Number 2wh-clefts and it-clefts in discourse.
"Language, 54, 883-906.Prince, Ellen E (1981a).
Topicalization, focusmovement and Yiddish movement: Apragmatic differentiation.
Proceedings oftheSeventh Annual Meeting of the BerkelyLinguistics Society, 249-264, edited byDanny K. Alford, Karen Ann Hunold,Monica A. Macaulay, Jenny Walter,Claudia Brugman, Paula Chertok, IneseCivkulis, and Marta Tobey.Prince, Ellen F. (1981b).
"Toward ataxonomy of given-new information."
InRadical Pragmatics, 223-255.
AcademicPress.Prince, Ellen F. (1985).
"Fancy syntax andshared knowledge."
Journal of Pragmatics,65-81.Prince, Ellen F. (1986).
"On the syntacticmarking of the presupposed openproposition."
Proceedings ofthe 22nd AnnualMeeting of the Chicago Linguistic Society.Prince, Ellen F. (1992).
"The ZPG letter:Subjects, definiteness and informationstatus."
In Discourse Description: DiverseAnalyses of a Fund Raising Text, edited byS.
Thompson and W. Mann, 295-325.
JohnBenjamins B.V.Rambow, Owen (1993).
Pragmatic aspects ofscrambling and topicalization i german.In Institute for Research in Cognitive ScienceWorkshop on Centering Theory inNaturally-Occurring Discourse.Reinhart, Tanya (1976).
The Syntactic Domainof Anaphora.
Doctoral dissertation, MIT.Rein_hart, Tanya (1981).
"Pragmatics andlinguistics, an analysis of sentencetopics."
Philosophica, 27, 53-94.Roberts, Craige (in press).
Salience,centering and anaphora resolution indiscourse representation theory.
InMarilyn A. Walker, Aravind K. Joshi, andEllen F. Prince, editors, Centering inDiscourse.
Oxford University Press.Shibatani, Masayoshi (1990).
The Languagesof Japan.
Cambridge University Press.Sidner, Candace L. (1979).
"Toward acomputational theory of definiteanaphora comprehension in English.
"Technical Report AI-TR-537, MIT.Sidner, Candace L. (1981).
"Focusing forinterpretation f pronouns."
AmericanJournal of Computational Linguistics, 7(4),217-231.Sidner, Candace L. (1983).
"Focusing in thecomprehension f definite anaphora."
InComputational Models of Discourse, editedby M. Brady and R. C. Berwick.
MITPress.Silverman, Kim (1987).
The Structure andProcessing of Fundamental FrequencyContours.
Doctoral Dissertation,Cambridge University.Swerts, Marc, and Geluykens, Ronald(1992).
"The prosodic structuring ofinformation flow in spoken discourse."
InWorkshop on Prosody in Natural Speech,221-230.
Institute for Research inCognitive Science, University ofPennsylvania.Terazu, Noriko; Yamanasi, Masaaki; andInada, Toshiaki (1980).
"Anaphora inJapanese."
In Studies in English Linguistics,8, 32-52.Terken, Jacques M. (in press).
Accessibility,prominence, pronouns and accents.
InMarilyn A. Walker, Aravind K. Joshi, andEllen F. Prince, editors, Centering inDiscourse.
Oxford University Press.Turan, Umit Deniz (in press).
Prominence inturkish discourse and forward lookingcenter hierarchy.
In Marilyn A. Walker,Aravind K. Joshi, and Ellen F. Prince,editors, Centering in Discourse.
OxfordUniversity Press.Walker, Marilyn A.
(1989).
"Evaluatingdiscourse processing algorithms."
InProceedings, 27th Annual Meeting of theAssociation of Computational Linguistics,251-261.Walker, Marilyn A.
(1992).
"Redundancy incollaborative dialogue."
In Proceedings,Fourteenth International Conference onComputational Linguistics, 345-351.Walker, Marilyn A.
(1993a).
InformationalRedundancy and Resource Bounds inDialogue.
Ph.D. thesis, University ofPennsylvania.Walker, Marilyn A.
(1993b).
Initial contextsand shifting centers.
In Institute forResearch in Cognitive Science Workshop onCentering Theory in Naturally-OccuringDiscourse.Walker, Marilyn A., and Whittaker, Steve(1990).
"Mixed initiative in dialogue: Aninvestigation i to discoursesegmentation."
In Proceedings, 28th AnnualMeeting of the Association for ComputationalLinguistics, 70-79.Walker, Marilyn A.; Iida, Masayo; and Cote,Sharon (1990).
"Centering in Japanesediscourse."
In Proceedings, 13thInternational Conference on ComputationalLinguistics (COLING-90), Helsinki, 1.Ward, Gregory (1985).
The syntax andsemantics of preposing.
Doctoraldissertation, University of Pennsylvania.Webber, Bonnie Lynn (1978).
A formalapproach to discourse anaphora.
Doctoraldissertation, Harvard University.
GarlandPress.Whittaker, Steve, and Stenton, Phil (1988).230Marilyn Walker et al Japanese DiscourseCues and control in expert clientdialogues.
In Proc.
26th Annual Meeting ofthe ACL, Association off ComputationalLinguistics, pages 123--130.Yoshimoto, Kei (1988).
"Identifying zeropronouns in Japanese dialogue."
InProceedings, 12th International Conference onComputational Linguistics (COLING-88),Budapest, Hungary, 779-784.231Computational Linguistics Volume 20, Number 2Appendix A: Instructions to Survey ParticipantsInstructions for Survey I and 2What interpretation do you get for the THIRD sentence of each set where there are twounexpressed arguments?
0(i) in the second sentence indicates that the unexpressedargument in the sentence should be interpreted as referring to the NP of the firstsentence marked with (i).
Please rank your preference: it's okay to have more thanone equally preferred interpretation.Instructions for Survey 3Dear Participants.
Thank you for serving as subjects for us for this informal experi-ment.
You can help us most by following the directions here.
Please read each samplediscourse in turn and make your interpretation as rapidly as possible.
Do not scrollback and forth in the file.
Please indicate which interpretation, (a) or (b) you get bymarking your choice with a 1.
It is very important hat you choose ,one, interpreta-tion only, and the one you choose should be the first one that you think of as you arereading the sample discourse.
Send us back this file with your choices marked.232
