Commentary on Kaplan and KayGraeme Ri tchie I(University of Edinburgh)To appreciate this article fully, it is essential to understand the historical context intowhich it fits, and which it has to some extent created.
Although formally publishedfor the first time here, it is already an extremely influential and classic piece of work.Finite-state machines, in one form or another, have been used for the descriptionof natural anguage since the early 1950s, with the extension to transducers appearingin the 1960s.
After Chomsky's tern condemnation of the adequacy of finite-state ma-chines for describing sentence structures, they virtually disappeared from mainstreamtheoretical linguistics.
Within computer science, they continued to be a standard for-malism, although transducers were not accorded the same detailed algebraic attentionas simple automata.Phonologists, meanwhile, were inventing a variety of rule mechanisms that were(with rare exceptions) only partly formalized.
Superficially, most of these systems (astypified by those of Chomsky and Halle) appeared to have little to do with finite-statemachines.
Indeed, their notations tended to suggest hat the rules had much morethan finite-state power.Kaplan and Kay have integrated these two streams of work--algebraic treatmentof automata in computer science, and phonologically-motivated formalisms withinlinguistics--and their results should feed back productively into both subfields.
Theframework they have established allows the comparison of different competing for-malisms in a rigorous manner, and permits the exploration of the formal limitations orcapabilities of rule notations that were previously more like expository devices thanformally defined systems.What may not be clear to the casual reader is that this work has been developedover many years, and early versions of it have already escaped into the computationallinguistics community in less prominent forums.
In this way it has already affectedthe course of research into phonological/morphological formalisms.
Perhaps the mostnotable (and in its turn, influential) development has been Koskenniemi's two-levelmorphology, which has been successfully applied to the morphology of a very widenumber of languages.
Koskenniemi's ideas are a direct development of Kaplan andKay's, as explained in Section 7 of the paper here.The theory of regular relations and finite-state transducers should not be viewedas a mere re-formalisation of 1960s linguistics.
As well as its relevance to the two-levelmodel, Kaplan and Kay suggest hat it may also throw light on the formal propertiesof autosegmental phonology.
Although the ideas were first circulated about 15 yearsago, they are still of central relevance to computational phonology today.ReferencesChomsky, N. (1957).
Syntactic Structures.Mouton.Koskenniemi, K. (1984).
"A generalcomputational model for word-formrecognition and production."
InProceedings, l Oth International Conference onComputational Linguistics/22nd AnnualMeeting of the ACL.
178-181.
Stanford, CA.Chomsky, N., and Halle, M. (1968).
TheSound Pattern of English.
Harper and Row.1 Department of Artificial Intelligence, University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh EH1 1HN, Scotland.380
