".on a -September  1994 _ Volume 20, Number  3Computat in guisticsSpecial Issue on ComIntroduction to Computational PhonologyArticlesRegular Models of Phonological Rule SystemsCommentary on Kaplan and KayCommentary on Kaplan and KayThe Reconstruction Engine: A ComputerImplementation of the Comparative MethodCommentary on Lowe and MazaudonCommentary on Lowe and MazaudonThe Acquisition of Stress: A Data-OrientedApproachCommentary on Daelemans, GiUis,and DurieuxCommentary on Daelemans, Gillis,and DurieuxPhonological Analysis in Typed FeatureSystemsCommentary on Bird and KleinCommentary on Bird and KleinBook ReviewsEnglish Verb Classes and Alternations: APreliminary~ InvestigationBeth LevinStatistically-Driven Computer Grammars ofEnglish: The IBM/Lancaster ApproachEzra Black, Roger Garside, and Geoffrey Leech(editors)Intelligent Multimedia InterfacesMark T. Maybury (editor)~utational PhonologySteven Bird iiiRonald M. Kaplan and Martin Kay 331Mark Liberman 379Graeme Ritchie 380John B. Lowe and Martine Mazaudon 381Steven Lee Hartman 418John Hewson 419Walter Daelemans, Steven Gillis, and 421Gert DurieuxPrahlad Gupta 452Jonathan Kaye 453Steven Bird and Ewan Klein 455John Coleman 492Richard Sproat 493Reviewed by Ha~:old SomersReviewed by Dekai WuReviewed by Kent Wittenburg495498501Published Quarterly by the MIT Press for the Association for Computational Linguistics.._ JCopyright ?1994 by the Association forComputational Linguistics.
Permission tophotocopy articles for internal or personaluse, or the internal or personal use ofspecific clients, is granted by the copyrightowner for users registered with theCopyright Clearance Center (CCC)Transactional Reporting Service, providedthat the fee of $3.00 per article-copy is paiddirectly to CCC, 222 Rosewood Drive,Danvers, MA 01923.
The fee code for usersof the Transactional Reporting Service is0891-2017/94 $3.00.
For those organizationsthat have been granted a photocopy licensewith CCC, a separate system of paymenthas been arranged.
Such permissionrequests and other permission inquiriesshould be addressed to the ManagingEditor at the address given on the insidefront cover of this issue.Computational Linguistics is abstractedand/or indexed in the followingpublications: Annual Review of InformationScience and Technology, Computer Abstracts,Computing Reviews, Current Contents: Socialand Behavioral Sciences, Engineering Index,Knowledge Engineering Review, Language andLanguage Behavior Abstracts, LinguisticAbstracts, Linguistic Bibliography, ScienceAbstracts (INSPEC Section C), and SocialSciences Citation Index.Volume 14 and subsequent volumes ofComputational Linguistics are available onmicrofilm through University MicrofilmsInternational, 300 North Zeeb Road, AnnArbor, MI 48106, USA.Send advertising and mailing list inquiriesto Marketing Manager, MIT Press Journals,55 Hayward Street, Cambridge, MA 02142;(617) 253-2866; e-mail: journals-info@mit.edu.Individual Subscriptions to ComputationalLinguistics are available only withmembership n the Association forComputational Linguistics (ACL).
AnnualMembership Dues are as follows: regular,$40.00; student - -  taking a full-time programof courses and not earning a regularincome, $25.00; retired, $25.00; joint - -  forcouples receiving one subscription, $50.00.A membership application together with anorder form for back issues and conferenceproceedings i included at the end of thisissue.
Send membership applications andaddress changes to Betty Walker (ACL),Bellcore, 445 South Street, MRE 2A379,Morristown, NJ 07960, USA;acl@bellcore.com.
However, note that it isalso possible to pay by credit card (both bye-mail and by postal mail) and throughbanks in Switzerland and Japan.Institutional Subscriptions are $84.00.Outside the U.S. add $14.00 postagehandling.
Canadian subscribers also add 7%GST.
Single copies of current and backissues are $22.00.
Outside U.S. add $5.00 perissue for postage and handling.
Canadiansadd additional 7% GST.
Send institutionalsubscription orders and address changes toMIT Press Journals, 55 Hayward Street,Cambridge, MA 02142; (617) 253-2889;e-mail: journals-orders@mit.edu.
To behonored free of charge, claims for missingcopies must be made immediately uponreceipt of the next published issue.
Pricessubject o change without notice.Institutions hould order back issues before1988 and all proceedings from the ACL atthe address above.Introduction to Computational PhonologySteven Bird*University of Edinburgh1.
OverviewDespite being the oldest discipline in linguistics, phonology remains largely unex-plored from a computational standpoint.
While phonology gave us such innovationsas the 'distinctive feature,' now heavily used in computational linguistics, phonologyitself has yet to reap the benefits of the formal and technological developments it gaverise to.Recently, however, computational phonology has been rapidly gaining recognitionas an independent area of inquiry within computational linguistics.
The ACL SpecialInterest Group in Computational Phonology (SIGPHON) was formed in 1991 and hasserved as a focus for ongoing work in the area.
In June of that year I proposed that therebe a special issue of Computational Linguistics dedicated to computational phonology,since there were many good-quality papers in circulation that had no obvious venuefor publication.
The resulting collection, which you have before you, is a representativesample of this work; some submissions not ready in time for this volume will appearin subsequent regular issues.
Other work in this area is to be found in the Proceedingsof the First Meeting of the ACL Special Interest Group in Computational Phonology, publishedby the ACL in 1994, and in two edited collections (Bird 1991; Ellison and Scobbie1993).The purpose of this short piece is to introduce computational phonology and thespecial issue.
I shall begin by presenting some background to the field, followed bya survey of the research themes currently under investigation.
Next, an overview ofthe papers in this collection is given, concluding with an explanation of the one-page commentaries that follow each paper.
So, what is phonology, and why shouldcomputational linguists care about it?2.
BackgroundPhonology is the study of the systems of sounds that are manifested by natural an-guages, the significant contrasts between sounds that are relevant o meaning.
As such,phonology stands at the interface between grammar, broadly construed, and speech.Much of the richness and complexity of phonology derives from the place it occu-pies between categorical symbolic systems and parametric physical behavior.
Severalexcellent textbooks are available for readers who wish to learn more about phonology.Now, why should computational linguists care about phonology?
First, phonologyis an equally valid area of study for a computational linguist as syntax or semantics.Solutions in one area may generalize to other areas, as we see, for example, wherestrings of segments are parsed using the same machinery that is used for syntactic* University of Edinburgh, Centre for Cognitive Science, 2 Buccleuch Place, Edinburgh EH8 9LW, U.K.(~) 1994 Association for Computational LinguisticsComputational Linguistics Volume 20, Number 3parsing (e.g.
chart parsing \[Church 1987\]), or where a formal system developed forsemantic representations of tense is applied to the temporal structure of phonology(Bird and Klein 1990), or where complex arrangements of phonological features arerepresented in the familiar notation of attribute-value matrices (Wiese 1990).
Thus,phonology provides a fresh source of applications for the techniques and technologiesof computational linguistics.However, this only demonstrates a flow of information from computational lin-guistics to phonology.
Can we hope for payoffs in the other direction resulting from awholesale integration of phonology into computational linguistics?
It is instructive toconsider The Sound Pattern of English (Chomsky and Halle 1968) in this regard.
Althoughit was intended as a contribution to phonological theory, SPE was also directly im-plementable on computer (e.g.
Bobrow and Fraser's 'phonological rule tester,' \[1968\]),and it was an important foundation for work in speech technology (e.g.
Allen, Hunni-cutt, and Klatt 1987).
Via the work of Johnson (1972), Koskenniemi (1984), and Kaplanand Kay--the latter in circulation since the early eighties but appearing in publishedform for the first time in the present collection--one could reasonably argue that SPEgave rise to finite-state morphology (Antworth 1990; Ritchie et al 1992; Sproat 1992).The formal framework of SPE was a good deal more explicit and rigorous thanmost of what came after, and so the prospects for a repeat performance coming fromphonology have never been particularly bright.
However, I feel it is now time forcomputational linguists to take another look at phonology.
A quarter of a century hasgone by since SPE, and there is much of interest o be found in the pages of Phonologyand similar publications.
A good place to start is the literature on computationalphonology itself, since it interprets the theoretical proposals of phonology in a way thatis more accessible to computational linguists.
The stakes are high, since it would not besurprising if phonology is still to play an important role in bridging natural anguagetechnology and speech technology.
For even though there is a methodological ndsociological divide, there remains an imperative to develop fully integrated languageand speech systems and an enduring need for fresh sources of creative ideas to relatethe discrete to the continuous.Undoubtedly, there will always remain sceptics who think that natural anguagesystems that deal just with the written word can afford to ignore phonology.
In alimited sense they are correct.
However, in the longer term, I am convinced that theinterest in multilingual and multimodal systems will require a more enlightened viewof phonology.
Many languages have genuinely phonological phenomena evident inthe orthography, such as Finnish (Koskenniemi 1984).
Even in English we find caseswhere a spelling rule needs to be sensitive to phonological information.
For example,the orthographic rule that selects a vs. an breaks down when a following word beginswith a written vowel but a spoken consonant or vice versa, as in a___u_uranium compoundand an ytterbium compound.
Although it largely works for English and a handful ofother languages, the assumption that phonology can be ignored by natural anguagesystems will collapse for many of the world's languages (e.g.
Finnish, Turkish, andArabic).One reason why computational phonology has not had a high profile is that workin this area has often been dealt with under the heading of computational morphology.However, much of what passes as finite-state morphology is actually morphophonol-ogy--the phonological factors that influence the appearance of morphemes----or evenphonology proper.
Moreover, the central computational device in finite-state morphol-ogy, the finite-state transducer, isnot used for specifying the distribution of morphemes(i.e.
morphotactics), the other main task of morphology.
Therefore, that part of finite-state morphology that is expressed in terms of finite-state transducers, namely mor-ivSteven Bird Introduction to Computational Phonologyphophonology and phonology, is largely coextensive with the domain of SPE.
Perhapsthe appearance of Kaplan and Kay's paper in this collection is symbolic of the recogni-tion that there is a close interplay between computational morphology and phonology.A second reason that attention to phonology is warranted is that much of phonol-ogy is actually not subsumed by computational morphology and speech technology.In general, work in these two fields has focused on SPE-style phonology alone andhas not, by and large, connected with current phonological theory or addressed purelyphonological concerns.
Again, computational phonology should provide usable imple-mentations of more recent models so that they can be incorporated into computationalwork on morphology and speech.Finally, one might reasonably ask why a phonologist ought to be interested incomputational phonology.
At the most obvious level, computational phonology shouldprovide support for developing theories and testing them against data, removing someof the hackwork involved in achieving formal and empirical adequacy.
Additionally,computational phonology may be able to provide formal devices that are useful inphonology proper, as in the case of the information-theoretic evaluation metric (Ellison1993) that is intended to replace the naive symbol-counting version.
One can also ob-serve that phonology has its own divide between theoreticians who work on abstractmodels upported by small collections of data drawn from a wide variety of languages,and investigators working on large scale analyses of individual anguages (such as thework of the Summer Institute of Linguistics on the orthographies of approximately1,100 languages \[D. Crozier, personal communication\]).
To this observer, it seems likethere could be more communication of new data from the field phonologist to the the-oretical phonologist and, in the reverse direction, communication of new hypothesesand useful theoretical devices that would play an active part in the search for inter-esting new data.
It seems plausible that computational systems that let phonologistsexperiment with large amounts of data and a variety of theoretical models have animportant part to play in bridging the gap between the 'theory people' and the 'datapeople.'3.
Research ThemesI have attempted to identify four strands of work and cite a representative sample ofwork within each.
Unfortunately, much valuable, relevant work has had to be omittedfrom the citation lists below for reasons of space.Formal reconstruction and language-theoretic results.
Work in this area seeksto provide coherent and well-understood formal frameworks in which phonologicaltheories can be expressed.
Some work takes an existing theory as its starting pointand seeks to refine it and express it in increasing levels of formality, while other workbegins from an existing formalism and tries to adapt its expressive capabilities to theneeds of phonology.
Since most work contains a mixture of both, I shall not attempta classification.
Rather, I shall loosely classify a selection of the work based on theformal method used: unification (Carson 1988; Chung 1990; Coleman 1991; Scobbie1991; Broe 1993; Walther 1993), predicate logic (Bird 1990; Bouma 1991; Russell 1993),modal logic (Bird and Blackburn 1991; Calder and Bird 1991), type theory (Klein1991; Mastroianni 1993), categorial grammar/logic (Wheeler 1981; Dogil 1984; van derLinden 1991; Oehrle 1991; Steedman 1991; Moortgat and Morrill to appear), finite-statedevices (Kay 1987; Kornai 1991; Wiebe 1992; Bird and Ellison 1994), electrical circuitry(Gilbers 1992), and formal language theory (Ristad 1990; Kornai 1991; Ritchie 1992;Wiebe 1992).VComputational Linguistics Volume 20, Number 3This work addresses phonological theories uch as autosegmental, metrical, under-specification, and government phonology.
The paper by Kaplan and Kay in this col-lection is another example of work in this general vein.Implementations.
Work in this area is directed at producing computer programsthat can be used by phonologists to develop and test theories.
A variety of SPE im-plementations exist (independently of the finite-state transducer model) starting fromBobrow and Fraser (1968) and including models for applying rules in reverse (Bear1990; Maxwell 1991).
Other theoretical frameworks that have been implemented toa greater or lesser extent include lexical phonology (Williams 1991), autosegmen-tal phonology (Bird 1990; Albro 1994; Bird and Ellison 1994), diachronic phonology(Hewson 1974; Eastlack 1977; Lowe and Mazaudon 1989), inheritance-based models(Daelemans 1987; Reinhard and Gibbon 1991) and connectionist models (see the nextparagraph on learning).
The paper by Lowe and Mazaudon in this collection is anexample of other work under the heading of implementations.Automatic learning.
This work aims to provide models to (i) simulate humanbehavior and test of theories of human language acquisition, and (ii) provide theworking phonologist with useful generalizations about a certain body of data understudy.
Examples of the first type are (Lathroum 1989; Touretzky and Wheeler 1993;Gupta and Touretzky 1992; Hare 1990; Gasser and Lee 1990; Gasser 1992; Shillcocket al 1992; Goldsmith 1993; Larson 1992), and these all use connectionist models.Examples of the second type are all symbolic (Johnson 1984; Dresher and Kaye 1990;Ellison 1993; Bird 1994).
Daelemans, Gillis, and Durieux have contributed a paper tothe present collection that fits into this category of automatic learning.Interfacing to grammar and speech.
The final grouping contains work that isintended to integrate computational models of phonology with computational modelsof grammar and of speech.
Concerning the phonology-grammar interface, all this workis covered under the paragraph on formal reconstruction above.
The assumption isthat if phonological models are formalized and if they employ the same computationalmodel as is used for computational syntax and semantics, then interfacing to grammarought to be relatively straightforward.
Another instance of this work is the contributionto the present collection by Bird and Klein.
Recent work on integrating phonology withspeech synthesis includes Hertz (1990), Coleman (1992), and Dirksen (1992), and thereis also a large literature on the phonology of intonation as it relates to synthesis (e.g.Anderson, Pierrehumbert, and Liberman 1984; Ladd 1987).This concludes the discussion of the various current research themes in compu-tational phonology.
As chance would have it, each of these themes is manifested byone of the papers in the present collection.
We now go on to survey these papersbriefly.
The reader is referred to the commentaries for more detailed overviews of thecontributions.4.
Brief Survey of ContributionsThese papers are given in the same order as the categories of the previous ection andin the order in which they appear in the collection itself.Kaplan and Kay: Regular Models of Phonological Rule Systems.
Kaplan and Kayhave finally provided the "widely cited but notoriously unpublished work" (Ritchieet al 1992:20) that establishes the mathematical foundation for finite-state computa-tional phonology and morphology.
This is without question the flagship paper of thiscollection.Lowe and Mazaudon: The Reconstruction E gine: A Computer Implementation f theComparative Method.
This paper presents an implementation of a technique fromviSteven Bird Introduction to Computational Phonologydiachronic linguistics, known as the comparative method, for comparing word formstaken from cognate languages in order to reconstruct aspects of the ancestor languagefrom which the languages are derived.
The system is applied to data from a group ofTibeto-Burman languages poken in Nepal.Daelemans, Gillis, and Durieux: The Acquisition of Stress: A Data-Oriented Approach.This paper consists of a rather striking demonstration that an empiricist learning modelactually performs better than the nativist 'Principles and Parameters' approach, con-cerning the task of assigning primary stress to a corpus of around 5,000 Dutch words.Bird and Klein: Phonological Analysis in Typed Feature Systems.
This contributionshows how a model of phonology incorporating complex multi-tiered structures canbe integrated with a constraint-based grammar of the HPSG variety.
Applications tononconcatenative morphology in Sierra Miwok and deletion in French are given.5.
CommentariesThe commentaries were conceived as a way of involving more people in the specialissue, and of identifying, for each paper, the noteworthy achievements and remainingareas of contention.
I felt that this would add interest and perspective to the collectionand would enable outsiders to gain a deeper insight into the workings of the field.Two commentators were selected for each paper who have an established reputationfor work in the same area of specialization as the paper in question, and who, in somecases, hold contrary views to those being advanced by the authors.AcknowledgmentsI am deeply indebted to Julia Hirschbergwho gave me her full support as Iundertook the editorial tasks involved inpreparing this collection.
She also took soleeditorial responsibility for my contributionwith Ewan Klein.
I am also thankful to themembers of SIGPHON, the CL EditorialBoard, and many others for the painstakingreviewing they willingly undertook, and tothe authors and commentators for theirenthusiastic participation i this project andfor their comments on this introduction.ReferencesAlbro, D. M. (1994).
AMAR: A computationalmodel of autosegmental phonology.
B.S.Thesis, Dept.
of Electrical Engineeringand Computer Science, MassachusettsInstitute of Technology.Allen, J.; Hunnicutt, S.; and Klatt, D. (1987).From Text to Speech: The MITalk System.Cambridge University Press.Anderson, M. J.; Pierrehumbert, J.; andLiberman, M. Y.
(1984).
"Synthesis by ruleof English intonation patterns."
InProceedings, IEEE Congress on Acoustics,Speech, and Signal Processing, Volume L2.8.1-2.8.4.Antworth, E. (1990).
PC-KIMMO: ATwo-Level Processor for MorphologicalAnalysis.
SIL.Bear, J.
(1990).
Backwards phonology.
InProceedings, 13th International Conference onComputational Linguistics, Volume 3, editedby H. Karlgren, 13-20.Bird, S. (1990).
Constraint-based phonology.Doctoral dissertation, University ofEdinburgh.
To be published in revisedform by Cambridge University Press,Studies in Natural Language Processing.Bird, S.
(ed.)
(1991).
Declarative Perspectives inPhonology, Volume 7 of Working Papers inCognitive Science.
University of Edinburgh.Bird, S. (1994).
"Automated tonetranscription."
In Proceedings ofthe FirstMeeting of the ACL Special Interest Group inComputational Phonology.Bird, S., and Blackburn, P. (1991).
"A logicalapproach to Arabic phonology."
InProceedings ofthe Fifth Meeting of theEuropean Chapter of the Association forComputational Linguistics, 89-94.Bird, S., and Ellison, T. M. (1994).
"One-levelphonology: autosegmental representationsand rules as finite automata.
"Computational Linguistics, 20, 55-90.Bird, S., and Klein, E. (1990).
"Phonologicalevents."
Journal of Linguistics, 26, 33-56.Bobrow, D. G., and Fraser, J.
B.
(1968).
"Aphonological rule tester."
Communicationsof the ACM, 11, 766-772.viiComputational Linguistics Volume 20, Number 3Bouma, G. (1991).
"A logical reconstructionof digital phonology."
In DeclarativePerspectives on Phonology, edited byS.
Bird, 93-105.
University of Edinburgh.Broe, M. (1993).
Specification theory: Thetreatment of redundancy ingenerativephonology.
Doctoral dissertation,University of Edinburgh.Calder, J., and Bird, S. (1991).
"Defaults inunderspecification phonology."
InDeclarative Perspectives on Phonology, editedby S. Bird, 107-125.
University ofEdinburgh.Carson, J.
(1988).
"Unification andtransduction i computationalphonology."
In Proceedings ofthe 12thInternational Conference on ComputationalLinguistics, 106-111.Chomsky, N., and Halle, M. (1968).
TheSound Pattern of English.
Harper and Row.Chung, H.-S. (1990).
"A phonologicalknowledge base system usingunification-based formalism--a casestudy of Korean phonology."
InProceedings ofthe 13th InternationalConference on Computational Linguistics,Volume 3, edited by H. Karlgren, 76-78.Church, K. W. (1987).
Phonological Parsing inSpeech Recognition.
Kluwer.Coleman, J. S. (1991).
Phonologicalrepresentations--their names, forms andpowers.
Doctoral dissertation, Universityof York.Coleman, J. S. (1992).
"'Synthesis-by-rule'without segments or rewrite-rules."
InTalking Machines: Theories, Models, andDesigns, edited by G. Bailly, C. Benolt,and T. R. Sawallis, 43-60.
Elsevier.Daelemans, W. (1987).
Studies in languagetechnology: An object-oriented computer modelof morphophonological aspects of Dutch.Doctoral dissertation, University ofLeuven.Dirksen, A.
(1992).
"Accenting anddeaccenting: A declarative approach."
InProceedings ofthe Fifteenth InternationalConference on Computational Linguistics,Volume 3, 865-869.Dogil, G. (1984).
"On the evaluationmeasure for prosodic phonology.
"Linguistics, 22, 281-311.Dresher, E., and Kaye, J.
(1990).
"Acomputational learning model for metricalphonology."
Cognition, 32, 137-195.Eastlack, C. L. (1977).
"Iberochange: Aprogram to simulate systematic soundchange in Ibero-Romance."
Computers andthe Humanities, 11, 81-88.Ellison, T. M. (1993).
Machine learning ofphonological structure.
Doctoraldissertation, University of WesternAustralia.Ellison, T. M., and Scobbie, J. M.
(eds.)(1993).
Computational Phonology, Volume 8of Working Papers in Cognitive Science.University of Edinburgh.Gasser, M. (1992).
"Learning distributedrepresentations forsyllables."
InProceedings, Fourteenth Annual Conference ofthe Cognitive Science Society, 396 - 401.Lawrence Erlbaum Associates.Gasser, M., and Lee, C.-D.
(1990).
"Networks that learn about phonologicalfeature persistence."
Connection Science, 2,265-278.Gilbers, D. G. (1992).
Phonological Networks:A Theory of Segment Representation,Volume 3 of Groningen Dissertations inLinguistics.
University of Groningen.Goldsmith, J.
A.
(1993).
"Harmonicphonology."
In The Last Phonological Rule:Reflections on Constraints and Derivations,edited by J.
A. Goldsmith, 21-60.University of Chicago Press.Gupta, P., and Touretzky, D. S. (1992).
"Aconnectionist learning approach toanalyzing linguistic stress."
In Advances inNeural Information Processing Systems 4,edited by J. Moody, S. J. Hanson, andR.
P. Lippmann.
Morgan Kaufmann.Hare, M. (1990).
"The role of similarity inHungarian vowel harmony: Aconnectionist account."
Connection Science,2, 123-150.Hertz, S. R. (1990).
"The Delta programminglanguage: An integrated approach tononlinear phonology, phonetics, andspeech synthesis."
In Papers in LaboratoryPhonology I: Between the Grammar andPhysics of Speech, edited by J. Kingstonand M. E. Beckman, chapter 13, 215-257.Cambridge University Press.Hewson, J.
(1974).
"Comparativereconstruction  the computer."
InProceedings, First International Conference onHistorical Linguistics, edited by J. M.Anderson and C. Jones.
North Holland.Johnson, C. D. (1972).
Formal Aspects ofPhonological Description.
Mouton.Johnson, M. (1984).
"A discovery procedurefor certain phonological rules."
InProceedings, Tenth International Conferenceon Computational Linguistics/22nd AnnualConference ofthe Association forComputational Linguistics, 344-347.Kay, M. (1987).
"Nonconcatenativefinite-state morphology."
In Proceedings,Third Meeting of the European Chapter of theAssociation for Computational Linguistics,2-10.Klein, E. (1991).
"Phonological data types.
"In Natural Language and Speech, edited byviiiSteven Bird Introduction to Computational PhonologyE.
Klein and E Veltman, Basic ResearchSeries.
Springer-Verlag.
Also appeared inDeclarative Perspectives on Phonology, editedby S. Bird, 127-138, University ofEdinburgh.Kornai, A.
(1991).
Formal phonology.
Doctoraldissertation, Stanford University.Koskenniemi, K. (1984).
"A generalcomputational model for word-formrecognition and production."
InProceedings, Tenth International Conferenceon Computational Linguistics, 178-181.Ladd, D. R. (1987).
"A model of intonationalphonology for use in speech synthesis byrule."
In European Conference on SpeechTechnology, edited by J. Laver and M. Jack,Volume 2, 21-24.Larson, G. N. (1992).
Dynamic omputationalnetworks and the representation fphonological information.
Doctoraldissertation, University of Chicago.Lathroum, A.
(1989).
"Feature ncoding byneural nets."
Phonology, 6, 305-316.Lowe, J.
B., and Mazaudon, M.
(1989).
"Computerized tools for reconstructionsin Tibeto-Burman."
In Proceedings, 15thAnnual Meeting of the Berkeley LinguisticsSociety, 367-378.Mastroianni, M. (1993).
Attribute logicphonology.
CMU-LCL 93-4, CarnegieMellon University.Maxwell, M. (1991).
"Phonological analysisand opaque rule orders."
In Proceedings,the Second International Workshop on ParsingTechnology, 110-116.Moortgat, M., and Morrill, G. (to appear).
"Heads and phrases, type calculus fordependency and constituent structure.
"Journal of Logic, Language and Information.Oehrle, R. T. (1991).
"Prosodic onstraintson dynamic grammatical nalysis."
InDeclarative Perspectives on Phonology, editedby S. Bird, 167-195.
University ofEdinburgh.Pullum, G. K. (1989).
"Topic ... comment:Formal linguistics meets the boojum.
"Natural Language & Linguistic Theory, 7,137-143.Reinhard, S., and Gibbon, D.
(1991).
"Prosodic inheritance and morphologicalgeneralizations."
In Proceedings ofthe FifthConference ofthe European Chapter of theAssociation for Computational Linguistics,131-136.Ristad, E. S. (1990).
"Computationalstructure of generative phonology and itsrelation to language comprehension."
InProceedings ofthe 28th Annual Meeting of theAssociation for Computational Linguistics,235-242.Ritchie, G. D. (1992).
"Languages generatedby two-level morphological rules.
"Computational Linguistics, 18, 41-59.Ritchie, G. D., Russell, G. J., Black, A. W.,and Pulman, S. G. (1992).
ComputationalMorphology: Practical Mechanisms for theEnglish Lexicon.
The MIT Press.Russell, K. (1993).
A constraint-based approachto phonology.
Doctoral dissertation,University of Southern California.Scobbie, J. M. (1991).
Attribute-valuephonology.
Doctoral dissertation,University of Edinburgh.Shillcock, R.; Lindsey, G.; Levy, J.; andChater, N. (1992).
"A phonologicallymotivated input representation for themodelling of auditory word perception icontinuous peech."
In Proceedings oftheCognitive Science Society Conference,Bloomington.Sproat, R. (1992).
Morphology andComputation.
Natural LanguageProcessing.
The MIT Press.Steedman, M. (1991).
"Structure andintonation."
Language, 67, 260-296.Touretzky, D. S., and Wheeler, D. W.
(1993).
"A connectionist implementation fcognitive phonology."
In The LastPhonological Rule: Reflections on Constraintsand Derivations, edited by J.
A. Goldsmith.University of Chicago Press.van der Linden, E.-J.
(1991).
"Accentplacement and focus in categorial logic.
"In Declarative Perspectives on Phonology,edited by S. Bird, 197-217.
University ofEdinburgh.Walther, M. (1993).
"Declarativesyllabification with applications toGerman."
In Computational Phonology,edited by T. M. Ellison and J. M. Scobbie,55-79.
University of Edinburgh.Wheeler, D. W. (1981).
Aspects ofa categorialtheory of phonology.
Doctoral dissertation,University of Massachusetts atAmherst.Wiebe, B.
(1992).
Modelling autosegmentalphonology with multi-tape finite statetransducers.
Master's thesis, Simon FraserUniversity.Wiese, R. (1990).
"Towards aunification-based phonology."
InProceedings, 13th International Conference onComputational Linguistics, edited byH.
Karlgren, Volume 3, 283-286.Williams, S. M. (1991).
"Lexical phonology:A computational system."
TechnicalReport CS-91-03, Department ofComputer Science, University of Sheffield.ix
