Principled Disambiguation:Discriminating Adjective Senseswith Modified NounsJohn S. Justeson*SUNY AlbanySlava M. Katz tIBM T. J. Watson Research CenterRecent corpus-based work on word sense disambiguation explores the application of statisticalpattern recognition procedures to lexical co-occurrence data from very large text databases.
Inthis paper we argue for a linguistically principled approach to disambiguation, i  which relevantcontextual c ues are narrowly defined, in syntactic and semantic terms, and in which only highlyreliable clues are exploited.
Statistical methods play a definite role in this work, helping to organizeand analyze data, but the disambiguation method itself does not employ statistical data or decisioncriteria.
This approach results in improved understanding of the disambiguation problem bothin general and on a word-specific basis and leads to broadly applicable and nearly errorless cluesto word sense.
The approach is illustrated by an experiment discriminating among the senses ofadjectives, which have been relatively neglected in work on sense disambiguation.
In particular,the paper assesses the potential of nouns for discriminating among the senses of adjectives thatmodify them.
This assessment is based on an empirical study of five of the most frequent ambiguousadjectives in English: hard, light, old, right, and short.
About three-quarters of all instancesof these adjectives can be disambiguated almost errorlessly by the nouns they modify or by thesyntactic onstructions in which they occur.
Such disambiguation requires only simple rules,which can be automated easily.
Furthermore, a small number of semantic attributes upply acompact means of representing the noun clues in a very few rules.
Clues other than nouns arerequired when modified nouns are not useable.
The sense of an ambiguous modified noun may beneeded to determine the relevant semantic attribute for disambiguation ofa target adjective; andother adjectives, verbs, and grammatical constructions all show evidence of high reliability, andsometimes of high applicability, when they stand in specific, well-defined syntactic relations tothe ambiguous adjective.
Some of these clues, however, may be hard to automate.1.
IntroductionThis paper is an application of corpus analysis to an issue in word sense disambigua-tion: to what extent adjectives' senses can be separated by the nouns they modify,or more generally, by the phrases they modify or take as complements.
We are inter-ested specifically in principled disambiguation--systematic in erpretation using highlyreliable inferences based on linguistically motivated features.
The work is empirical,addressing five of the most common, broadly applicable adjectives in English: hard,light, old, right, and short.Nouns are intrinsically suited for principled disambiguation of adjectives.
Mostadjectives normally designate an attribute of an entity designated by the noun or noun* Department of Anthropology, State University of New York, Albany, NY 12222.t Current address: Weston Language Research, 138 Weston Road, Weston, CT 06883.
(~) 1995 Association for Computational LinguisticsComputational Linguistics Volume 21, Number 1phrase they modify.
Often, one sense or group of senses designates an attribute that ismuch more typically relevant to the noun's referent.
For example, when the adjectiveold characterizes a human being, as in old man or she is old, it usually means 'aged'--not'used,' 'of long standing,' or 'former.'
In such cases, the mutual relevance of the adjec-tive and noun senses is content specific (semantic) rather than word specific (lexical).We presume that it is this semantic relation rather than a lexical association that isnormally involved in disambiguation.
1 One of the issues to be addressed in disam-biguation is the passage from word-specific evidence to conceptual representation, aproblem that we do not pretend to have solved in this paper.In addition, we consider the syntactic onstructions within which adjectives occurand through which the phrases or clauses they modify are determined.
For example,some adjectives have senses that are not used predicatively; the use of such an adjectiveas a predicate rules out such senses.
The syntactic lues we recognize are as reliableas the noun clues.Noun-based isambiguation f adjectives i of special interest because a selectionamong different attributes (adjective senses) is likely to be sensitive to the attributebundles (noun senses) they characterize.
It does turn out that a small number of se-mantic features of nouns do provide fairly high coverage and very high reliabilityin adjective sense discrimination.
Noun-based isambiguation is a structured form ofco-occurrence-based disambiguation, various forms of which are prominent in corpus-based work.
In co-occurrence-based approaches, it is usual to take into account heentire set of words in the vicinity of a target (Maarek and Smadja 1989; Yarowsky1992).
Gale, Church, and Yarowsky (1992) demonstrate hat high reliability and cov-erage are simultaneously attainable with such an approach.
The type of work we arepursuing has the potential to be more readily interpretable, though it is more difficultto automate.
We suspect that the success of the comparison of contexts in bulk is duein large part to the effect of a few highly structured types of clues, such as we examine,and in part to more diffuse clues of other types.We use statistical inference methods as tools for analyzing and attempting to un-derstand the problem of disambiguafion a d the potential of resources such as modi-fied nouns for solving this problem.
Methodologically, our statistical nalyses and ourextraction of disambiguating features from the corpus are straightforward, with oneexception: in order to be able to base inference on already disambiguated subcorpora,we had to devise a way to adjust for the bias brought into the sample by the criteriathrough which they had been disambiguated; the required formulas are presented andillustrated in the Appendix.The structure of the paper is as follows.
In Section 2 we describe the notion of aword sense indicator; this defines the types of features we consider as clues for disam-biguation generally, and how specifically we use nouns as clues to the recognition ofadjective senses.
In Section 3, we describe the type of data we use; by defining adjec-tive senses in terms of the meanings of different antonyms, we can take advantage ofalarge database of examples for analysis, examples that are ideally disambiguated bytheco-occurrence of adjectives and their antonyms in semantically concordant s ructures.Section 4 provides a detailed report on the structure and results of the investigationof noun-based isambiguation.
Section 5 discusses more complex types of inference1 Word-specific relations between adjectives and nouns are idiomatic, non-composit ional pairs (so-called"freezes") in which the adjective itself has no independent  sense, e.g., hard cash and short cut.
In somecases, such as hard fact, it is difficult to draw the line between a noun-specific sense (here,' incontrovertible') and a compositional sense (e.g., 'inflexible, unyielding'); such indeterminacy is ofcourse one of the sources of a freeze.2John S. Justeson and Slava M. Katz Principled Disambiguationinvolved in some noun-based isambiguation and addresses the potential of othertypes of indicators for adjective senses.2.
Word Sense IndicatorsOur problem is a specific case of the more general problem of finding clues withinthe context of a word that indicate its sense fairly reliably.
Content words that have aclose syntactic relation to one another are useful candidates for examination and areintuitively more likely to bear a close semantic relation than words that are near oneanother but are not related syntactically.
One much-studied example is the semanticrelation between a verb and its arguments (e.g., Boguraev et al 1989; Church andHanks 1989; Braden-Harder 1991; Hindle and Rooth 1991).Discrimination among senses of adjectives based on the nouns they modify or ofwhich they are predicated has been the subject of less intensive and systematic study.Determining the potential of this line of evidence is the focus of this paper.
We do thisby performing a noun-based isambiguation experiment.
Certainly, some nouns arestrongly associated with particular senses of some of the adjectives that modify them.This association can be illustrated for the ambiguous adjective old, which has sensesroughly synonymous with aged, long existing, former, used, and obsolete, using sentencesfrom our experimental corpus (see Section 4.1).
Two of the nouns most frequentlymodified by old in general texts are man and house.
Overwhelmingly, old is used in thesense 'aged (not young)" when it modifies man, e.g., inThe man was very old and very frail, a widower.He was a strong old man: he had lived through forty-five years of those wretchedcasseroles, but she missed him already."Guilty!"
came the hoarse croaking sounds of the old men.In some sentences, in fact, this noun is the only real basis, within the sentence itself,for inferring the sense of old:The old man answered this time.
"Leave the other to the old man.
""All except the old man.
"Man, therefore, can be taken as a fairly good indicator of the 'aged' sense of old.Similarly, when old modifies house, it almost always has one of its 'not new' senses, asinIn the fashionable suburb of Kingston, full of beautiful old houses.... .
.
around the old Holton house he made many improvements...He saw the tractors come and tear down the old houses and plow up the land...When old modifies house, then, this is a good indication that old is being used in oneof these senses.
So man and house are reliably associated with different senses of old.We refer to man and house as indicators for the senses of old.
More generally, afeature F (such as the modified noun man) that is associated with a target word T3Computational Linguistics Volume 21, Number 1(such as the modifying adjective old) is an indicator for a sense Si (e.g., 'aged') of T if,when the feature is present, that sense Si is more likely than the other senses Sj, j -~ i.This statement is formalized in the Appendix.This characterization f the indicators for word senses also provides flexibilityregarding sense definition.
Not only does it not require a single assessment, once andfor all, concerning what the senses of a word may be, it requires no commitment tothe reality of word senses themselves, as classically construed (see Pustejovsky andBoguraev 1993).
Disambiguation may be pursued relative to many distinct issues, e.g.,grammatical c ass, functional role, document topic, or lexical translation equivalent;the entities to be discriminated are the effective "senses" being identified.
In thispaper, we disambiguate r lative to a pair of word sense groups, operationally bydisambiguating relative to sense-specific antonyms; an old man, for example, is a manwho is not young, and an old house is a house that is not new.
Such sense distinctionshave some justification i  terms of the semantic organization of adjectives (see Gross,Fischer, and Miller 1989).
However, our purpose in choosing them was purely forconvenience in designing an experiment useful for determining the potential of noun-based disambiguation f adjectives.The characterization f indicators is equally flexible with regard to the domainof its own applicability.
It need not be assumed that all instances of the target wordT are to be included in assessing the relative probabilities of different senses.
In theexperiment described here, we are determining the extent o which those senses of anadjective that are associated with one antonym can be distinguished from those associ-ated with a different antonym according to the nouns that the target adjective modifies.We therefore discriminate between just these two sets of senses, which constitute thegreat majority of instances of the targets, and we exclude from both investigation andevaluation all instances in which the sense of the target does not fall in one of thesetwo groups.
We exclude all freezes from consideration asnot being legitimate instancesin which the adjectives actually have a definable sense (see footnote 1).
In addition,we exclude the minority of instances that have definable senses that do not fall withinthese two groups.
For example, short has a sense 'inadequate' that is related histori-cally to its dimensional senses; however, this sense does not have a lexically specificantonym, whereas the dimensional senses do (long and tall).3.
Disambiguated SubcorporaTo extract a reasonable number of nouns that are indicators for the senses of targetadjectives, one straightforward approach would be to extract a representative sampleof sentences for each target adjective, to disambiguate each target manually, and toextract hose nouns that are relatively frequent and that are modified by the targetin one sense but not in the other.
We adopted a different strategy, one that providedus with a large set of sentences in which target adjectives could be disambiguatedautomatically and with complete reliability.
This strategy involved disambiguation fadjectives by their co-occurrence with sense-specific antonyms.Antonym co-occurrence is a frequent and pervasive phenomenon, and it takesplace under highly restricted semantic and syntactic onditions (Charles and Miller1989; Justeson and Katz 1991, 1992).
An adjective and its antonym refer to opposedvalues of the same attribute.
When they modify the same noun in a sentence this isthe usual case in sentences in which they both occur--this attribute isvirtually ensuredof applying in a consistent way to both instances of the noun.
When an adjective like oldhas different senses that are associated with different antonyms (like new and young),the adjective in these sentences i disambiguated by its antonym.
Thus, in sentencesJohn S. Justeson and Slava M. Katz Principled Disambiguationin which old and young modify the same noun, e.g., man, old is thereby interpretableas 'not young'; in those in which old and new both modify a noun, e.g., house, old isthereby interpretable as 'not new.
'The reason for this effect is easy to observe.
Antonyms most often co-occur indirect comparisons or in contrastive opposition, directly reflecting both the identity ofthe attribute to which they pertain and the contrast in its value.
As illustrated by thefollowing sentences from the Brown Corpus (Francis and Kucera 1982), they usuallyoccur in otherwise ssentially identical phrases:Photograph shows the wrong side of work with light strand being picked up underdark strand in position to be purled.They indicated that no new errors were being made and that all old errors would becorrected within 60 days.Note how easy it is to find synonyms for the epithet "miser" andhow hard to find synonyms for "spendthrift.
"When her right hand was incapacitated by the rheumatism, Sadie learned to writewith her left hand.I found myself becoming one of that group of people who, in Carlyle's words, areforever gazing into their own navels, anxiously asking am I right, am I wrong?Radio broadcasts, however--now that even plain people could afford loud speakers ontheir sets--held old fans to the major-league races and attracted new ones...We often say of a person that he looks young for his age or old for his age.We refer to this pattern as phrasal substitution.
In these cases, the phrases involvedusually stand in direct semantic opposition (e.g., her right hand .
.
.
.
her left hand).
Co-occurring antonyms are also frequently joined by and or or, or appear in noun phrasesjoined by prepositions and having the same head noun:It was pitiful to see the thin ranks of warriors, old and young...That was one more reason she didn't look forward to Cathy's visit, short or long;As for this rider, I never saw him before or afterwards and never saw him dismounted,so whether he stood tall or short in his shoes, I can't say;Skin colors range from white to dark brown, heights from short to tall, hairfrom long and straight o short and tightly curled.It was a winter world without details, a world of shapes in an expanse ranging in colorfrom light to dark gray.But there is no sudden transition from hard rock to soft.The chief function of these conjoined and prepositional co-occurrences is to cover therange of possible values of an attribute.Whether the antonym co-occurrences involve contrastive opposition or a range ofattribute values, they call forth the semantic dimension designated by the antonympairs and guarantee concordance in adjective sense of the co-occurring antonyms.Thus, when an adjective has different sense-specific antonyms, their co-occurrences5Computational Linguistics Volume 21, Number 1as modifiers of different instances of the same noun reliably disambiguate hat adjec-tive.
Five common English adjectives have such antonyms, yielding ten antonymousadjective pairs: hard-easy, hard-soft; light-dark, light-heavy; old-new, old-young; right-left, right-wrong; and short-long, short-tall.
All the example sentences above involveone of these ten pairs, and they exemplify the concordance of the antonyms' enses.Furthermore, certain departures from the perfect phrasal substitution patterns equallyconstrain the senses of the antonyms to be concordant.
These departures include in-sertion of adverbial modifiers, substitution of other words besides the antonyms, oruse of the antonyms to modify noun phrases having the same head noun in phrasesthat otherwise differ from one another.
The subcorpora that were used in the workreported here consist of those sentences in which a target adjective and its antonymmodify separate instances of the same noun or clause.4.
The ExperimentThis section describes our investigation of noun-based disambiguation a d its results.Subcorpora were extracted for each of the five target adjectives, consisting of sen-tences in which the target was disambiguated by its co-occurrence with an antonymas modifiers of the same noun (Section 4.1).
The tendency toward sense specificityof nouns modified by target adjectives in these sentences i demonstrated by show-ing that there is little overlap in the set of nouns modified by the target in the twoantonym co-occurrence subcorpora for that target (Section 4.2).
Nouns indicating theantonym-specific senses of these targets were then extracted by statistical analysis oftheir sense preferences.
It is shown that these indicator nouns are also specific to thesenses of the target adjectives in the corpus at large by using them successfully in adisambiguation procedure applied to 500 randomly selected sentences (Section 4.3).Simple, broadly applicable semantic features characterize most of the indicatornouns, whereas broadly applicable syntactic features characterize many of their con-texts.
Together, these features discriminate the target senses, permitting a more com-pact and conceptual rather than word-specific representation f the indicators (Sec-tion 4.4): about three-quarters of the adjective instances are disambiguated by thesefeatures, and virtually errorlessly.4.1 Acquiring Disambiguated SubcorporaOur original study of antonym co-occurrence (Justeson and Katz 1991) was based on aversion of the Brown Corpus, containing 54,717 sentences; it yields only 57 sentencesin which both adjectives from any of the ten antonym pairs analyzed in the presentstudy were modifying different instances of the same noun.
To get enough sentencescontaining antonym co-occurrences of antonyms to address disambiguation issues ad-equately, we used the 1.5 million-sentence APHB Corpus.
This corpus of 25,000,000words was obtained from the American Printing House for the Blind and archived atIBM's T.J. Watson Research Center.
It consists of stories and articles from books andgeneral circulation magazines.All sentences containing co-occurrences of the target adjective and each of itsantonyms were extracted from the APHB Corpus, yielding 4391 sentential co-occur-rences.
These sentences were manually postprocessed to eliminate all instances inwhich either the target or its antonym was not being used adjectivally.
2 From the2 This could have been automated using a parser.
Our immediate interest, however, is in discoveringactual patterns ofusage and not in building an automatic system.
We did the work manually toavoidJohn S. Justeson and Slava M. Katz Principled Disambiguationremaining sentences, we further extracted a subset of sentences in which both membersof the pair modify distinct instances of the same noun.
This yielded 1487 sentencesin which at least one of the target adjectives co-occurs with one of its antonyms, withboth the target and its antonym modifying instances of the same noun that are inseparate phrases.
Some of these sentences have more than one such co-occurrence, sothese sentences yielded 1535 total co-occurrences.
Every one of these co-occurrenceshad sense-concordant antonyms modifying the same noun; any other sense is usuallysemantically incongruous, especially in direct phrasal substitutions.
The sentences inwhich co-occurring antonymous adjectives modify the same noun therefore constitutea subcorpus in which the ambiguous members of the antonym pairs are discriminatedrelative to their antonym-specific senses.
This gave us ten subcorpora, one for eachantonym pair, of 1535 examples to use as a database for studying the extent o whichmodified nouns disambiguate their modifying adjectives.In counting instances of nouns associated with each adjective, elided nouns andanaphoric pronouns were resolved (manually) whenever possible, adding to the countsfor the noun referent, since we are studying the phenomenon of the adjective-nounrelation.
In addition, we stripped morphological suffixes from noun phrases, to recoveran adjective-noun base.
Thus right winger, right fielder, and heavy sleeper are recognizedas deriving from right wing, right field, and heavy sleep; short-staffed, short-lived, and lightindustrial are recognized as derived from short staff, short life, and light industry.
It wascounted irectly only in non-anaphoric usage.
The sentences of this subcorpus contain1535 such co-occurrences of the target adjectives and their antonyms.
(Co-occurrencecounts for each of the ten antonym pairs are given in Table 3 of the Appendix.
)4.2 Specificity of Nouns for Adjective Senses in the Disambiguated SubcorporaThe disambiguated subcorpora can be used to assess the extent o which target adjec-tives, when modifying a given noun, are specific to a single sense rather than beingusable in either sense.
They are in fact surprisingly consistent in this regard, as can beillustrated for the indicator nouns discussed in Section 2.
There it was noted that manis an indicator of the 'aged' sense of old (with antonym young) and house for some ofthe 'not new' senses of old (with antonym new).The specific association of man with the 'aged' sense of old is reflected in the useof this noun in antonymic onstructions.
The APHB Corpus contains 64 sentences inwhich both young and old modify man; e.g.,In Bihzad's paintings we see people and animals as individuals--rich men and poormen, old and young, the elders in the mosque and the herdsmen camping among theirhorses in the fields.Old men saw visions and young men dreamed reams.I am an old man, you a young one;...The old man turns to the young one and says: "The time has come for a fewquestions.
"In both the old and the young man this was a breach of habit.Most of these sentences involve phrasal substitution patterns typical of antonymsgenerally.
In contrast, there is not one sentence in which both old and new modifyeither man or men.the systematic errors to which all automatic parsers are subject.Computational Linguistics Volume 21, Number 1The converse result obtains in the case of house.
Four sentences contain instancesin which old and new both modify house or houses:Cast-iron balustrades became the fashion, to be sought out when old houses werepulled down and removed to new houses.... .
.
entire crates of dishes have been smashed when the trailers cross railroad tracks orother rough spots located between the old and the new house.Fireplaces in the new house, but not in the old one?Section 235 (of the Housing Act of 1968) helps families with low and "moderate"incomes to buy one- or two-family houses, old or new.In contrast, the APHB Corpus contains no sentence in which both old and young modifyhouse or houses.The specificity of man and house to particular senses of old is typical of nounsin these subcorpora.
Most nouns by far were modified by the target in only oneof its senses, in our co-occurrence sentences.
We demonstrated this sense specificityof modified nouns by compiling all pairs consisting of a target adjective modifyingthe same noun as either of its antonyms.
For each of these adjective-noun pairs, wedetermined the number of instances involving each sense; we want to determine theextent o which a particular adjective-noun pair tends to occur with only one of thetwo senses.
One hundred and eighty-one adjective-noun pairs occur more than once, 3with a total of 1096 occurrences.
Most by far have n : 0 sense distributions, i.e., thepairs occur in only one of the target's enses.
Sixty-one adjective-noun pairs, covering828 instances, have 4 or more instances each, and thus could admit 2 or more instancesin their minority sense.
Only 4 do have so many minority instances, covering 39 of the828 total occurrences.
The occurrence of 2 or more minority instances is not mainly afrequency effect; these 4 adjective-noun pairings are no more frequent on average thanthose that do not.
So adjective-noun pairs do, as a rule, strongly favor one particularsense, and this is as true of pairs with many instances as of those with few.4.3 Adjective Disambiguation Using Indicator NounsThe specificity of nouns in the disambiguated corpus for senses of the target adjectivessuggests potentially very high reliability for a noun-based procedure to disambiguatecommon adjectives.
We evaluate the potential of such a procedure by extracting, fromthe co-occurrence sentences, a set of nouns that are indicators for the senses of thetarget adjectives and applying them to instances of the targets from non-co-occurrencesentences in the corpus at large.Because adjectives co-occur with their antonyms fairly frequently, it was practi-cal to extract disambiguated subcorpora large enough to provide a base for statisticalinference.
However, subcorpora in which most sentences exhibit phrasal substitutionof antonyms are clearly not representative samples of the use of the target adjectives.This raises the possibility that the specificity of nouns for target adjective senses mightbe influenced by the nature of the sentences in which they occur--those that containlargely repeated, contrastive structures; we need evidence concerning their sense speci-ficity from the corpus at large.
This unrepresentativeness al o introduces bias into the3 If a pair occurs only once, there is no opportunity for its target adjective to appear sometimes in onesense and sometimes in another; so such pairs cannot be used in estimating the consistency of senseselection by nouns.John S. Justeson and Slava M. Katz Principled Disambiguationstatistical process of inferring sense indicators for the corpus at large from the spe-cially selected subcorpora, a bias for which we must correct.
The Appendix gives theformula needed to project, from the disambiguated subcorpora to the corpus at large,the probabil ity of each sense of the target adjective given the noun it modifies.
Thisadjustment for bias requires that we know the sense distribution of the target adjec-tives in the corpus to which the indicators are intended to apply and the number  ofinstances in the subcorpora in which each potential indicator noun is modif ied by thetarget adjective in each of its senses.We therefore xtracted from the APHB Corpus a random sample of 100 sentencescontaining adjectival instances of each target adjective, for a total of 500 sentences inall.
In addition to requiring that the target word functions as an adjective, we excludeall freezes, 4 as well as quantificational expressions such as three years old in which thetarget labels an attribute (e.g., age) rather than a value of that attribute (e.g., 'aged').
5The target adjectives in all 500 test sentences were manual ly disambiguated, both withrespect o the antonyms and in some cases with respect o other senses not associatedwith either antonym.
The distribution of antonym-related senses is given in the thirdcolumn of Table 1.
Since we are interested in discriminating between the two antonym-related sets of senses of the targets, we limited attention to those instances of that targetoccurring in a sense for which an antonym exists.
For this reason, the total numberof instances is less than 100 for each target adjective, varying from 89 for hard to 99for right.
After determining the sense distribution for the target in each set, we couldproject which nouns in the subcorpora re likely to be sense indicators for the targetadjectives in these samples.The following nouns were projected to show a preference for one or the othersense of the target adjectives that was statistically significant at the .05 level (nounsare in roman, classes in italic):hard-not easy: it, clauseshard-not soft: nonelight-not dark: nonelight-not heavy: cruiser, harness, loadold-not new: proper names (of things), world, thing, car, wayold-not young: man, people, proper names (of people), woman,  proper names (ofplaces), lady, you, wine, person, bull, he, I, one (animate pronoun)right-not left: handright-not wrong: he, I, thing, way, what, clauses, answer, proper names (ofpeople), act, country, decision, expert, masturbation, ote, people, reason,technician, that, theory, youshort-not long: term, syllable, hair, range, run, storyshort-not tall: none4 When an adjective in a frozen noun phrase contributes no distinct meaning to the phrase (seefootnote 1), it is excluded from consideration; such freezes hould be found in the dictionary, and theiridentification i text is a separate problem.5 The total number of sentences containing the target word that were extracted to yield 100 suchadjectival instances of the target was 160 for hard, 444 for light, 124 for old, 278 for right, and 147 forshort.Computational Linguistics Volume 21, Number 1Table 1Coverage and disambiguation error rates for target adjectives in lO0-sentence samples, usingdifferent indicator sets.Syntax andSense Distribution in Indicator Nouns All Nouns Sem.
Attributes100-Sentence Samples Coverage Errors Coverage Errors Coverage ErrorsHard Not easy 69 33 0 33 1 66 0Not soft 20 0 0 6 0 14 0Light Not dark 31 0 0 23 2 17 0Not heavy 67 0 0 8 0 19 0Old Not new 48 3 0 20 3 38 0Not young 44 28 0 36 0 32 2Right Not left 22 8 0 20 1 17 0Not wrong 77 43 0 47 0 67 0Short Not long 86 11 0 38 0 73 0Not tall 9 0 0 6 0 5 1126 0 237 7 348 3Overall 47326.6% 0% 50.1% 3.0% 73.6% 0.9%The statistical procedure that was used to identify these nouns as indicators is de-scribed in detail in the Appendix.
The number  of significant indicators recovered isquite variable, ranging from none for the 'not soft' sense of hard, the 'not dark'  senseof light, and the 'not tall' sense of short, to 13 for the 'not young'  sense of old and 20for the 'not wrong'  sense of right.At this point, we had extracted a small set of statistically significant nouns that areprojected to be indicators for adjective senses in the random samples.
We then iden-tified each instance in these samples in which a target adjective modif ied a projectedindicator and tested the agreement of the target's sense with that which the nounwas projected to indicate.
This procedure tests the sense specificity of the projectedindicators in the 100-sentence samples.The results of this test appear  in Table 1 under the heading Indicator Nouns.
Theindicators do turn out to discriminate as projected between target adjective senses, andthey do so with 100% reliability.
Given this result, the set of indicator nouns can betreated as the basis for a disambiguation procedure.
The extent of applicability of sucha procedure can be inferred from the Coverage column, which records the proport ionof target adjectives that modify projected indicator nouns.
Overall coverage is 26.6%(see Table 1), rather low for a disambiguation procedure.
The amount  of co-occurrencedata available for inference has had a substantial effect on coverage.
Five of the tensenses are represented by fewer than 100 co-occurrence sentences each, and only oneof these five yields any coverage at all.
The other five senses are represented by morethan 100 sentences each, and every one provides some coverage of the 100-sentencesamples.
There is therefore very reason to believe that coverage would increase with alarger base for inference.
While we found a good semantic matching of adjective senseswith the indicators that were recovered from the co-occurrence sentences, the indica-tor selection depended on an arbitrarily selected 5% level of statistical significance.We therefore investigated the dependence of performance on the chosen significancelevel.
This dependence is highlighted most clearly by comparing the performance of10John S. Justeson and Slava M. Katz Principled Disambiguationthe statistically significant indicators, listed above, with that of the nouns from thesubcorpora that are not significant as indicators of target sense.
For this purpose, wetherefore treated every noun from the co-occurrence sentences as an indicator of thesense which that noun is projected to favor in the sample sentences.
The results arepresented under All Nouns in Table 1.
Coverage increased from 126 to 237 instances.The 111 newly covered instances are incorrectly assigned in only 7 cases; even when ev-ery noun from the co-occurrence s ntences i treated as an indicator, reliability remainshigh (97.0%).The rather high reliability of even those nouns that are not statistically significantindicators of adjective sense suggests that in general text as well as in the co-occurrencesentences, most nouns are highly specific to the sense of their modifying adjectives.For example, not a single color word is a statistically significant indicator for the senseof light, although light blue, light brown, light gray, and light green all clearly use light inits 'not dark' sense.
This example also illustrates that many of the individual nounsthat we are treating as separate, independent cases actually manifest a smaller numberof underlying semantic ategories, e.g., color.
Speakers' knowledge of language mustsomehow encode such cases, with patterns of use of individual nouns in relation tothese adjectives emerging on the basis of that knowledge.
A natural way to pursuethe necessary revision is in terms of semantic attributes of these nouns, rather thanin terms of the nouns themselves.
We investigate this possibility, introspectively, inSection 4.4.
This was already done to some extent when proper names were groupedtogether into classes.The modified noun is not always relevant o the process of disambiguation, andeven when the noun is relevant, it is not always sufficient.
The observed errors illus-trate this (underlined nouns are from the projected indicators):"I have something hard to speak," he remarked.A spatula is also used for lifting light pieces of food...They \[shells (of bullets)\] were small and light, but their turnip shape and radial finsmade them difficult to conceal...The auctioneer.., auctioned off everything, obviously from the estate of an old, dyingout family, in short order.Our spirit is so twisted, torn, because of self, out of its right center, God, and rooted inthe flesh; the old life is so foul in the sight of God that no patchwork, no mere polishingup, no amount of varnish will do.The response to such old masters as Michelangelo, Rembrandt and Velasquez wasand still is instant wonder and delight.The two-inch layer of fat that is attached to the inside of the seal's skin is left intact, andfinally the whole hide is turned right side out.What are the sources of these errors?
In the first sentence, something is not modifiedby hard at a deep syntactic level; it is instead to speak something that relates directlyto hard, the surface modified noun being simply irrelevant (see Section 4.4.2).
In thenext case, the noun is not intrinsically irrelevant, but it turns out not to be useful;pieces is virtually empty semantically and can be modified by the target adjectivein either sense (see Section 5.2).
The remaining nouns are relevant.
Family, life, andmaster are ambiguous, and once the ambiguity is resolved the sense of the modifying11Computational Linguistics Volume 21, Number 1adjective is reliably indicated; this issue is addressed in Section 5.1.
Shell and side arealso relevant o the sense of the adjective, but even when disambiguated themselves,further information about the context of light shells and right side is required before thesense of the adjective can be resolved.
Section 5.2 addresses ome of the contextualrelations between adjectives and noun senses that sometimes resolve adjective sensewhen the intrinsic attributes of the noun sense do not.4.4 Generalizing the Indicator NounsThe mutual relevance of nouns and adjectives that permits sense disambiguation isconcept specific rather than word specific.
More than 40 nouns that are identifiable asindicators of adjective senses reflect a much smaller number of conceptual categoriesthat directly relate to these senses.4.4.1 Indicator Noun Attributes.
The feature human provides a useful and concep-tually well-motivated basis for interpreting old, right, and short.
With one exception(wine), the projected indicator nouns for the 'aged' sense of old--man, people, woman,you, he, person, lady, and proper names of people--refer to human beings.
Expandingto include all nouns from the co-occurrence s ntences that substitute young more thannew for old, almost all added nouns continue to be for human beings, as well as certainpronouns (L we, you, he, she and me, us, her, him), to which animals, plants, and bodyparts are added.
In the 100-sentence sample, all of the 10 'aged' instances of old thatwere not covered by the indicator nouns refer to members of these categories, 7 ofthem to human beings.
Similarly, the correctness sense of right refers both to deci-sions and to decision-making entities, the latter primarily human; among 119 differentnouns modified by right in the co-occurrence s ntences, 14 of the nouns modified by'not wrong' instances are +human, and all 55 nouns modified by 'not left' instances are-human.
Finally, in the case of short, the vertical extent feature characterizing its 'nottall' sense is appropriate to relatively freestanding entities that are normally vertical,and humans are the most talked-about instances of such objects generally.
There aredifferences among the different arget adjectives in the appropriateness of the feature.In the case of old, it is a restricted version of the feature living thing; for right, ofanimate (people and animals); and for short, human beings happen to be a frequentinstantiation of a verticality feature that is normally appropriate to woody plants andto relatively large land animals.The feature concrete is also very widely applicable.
All indicators of the 'not soft'sense of hard are +concrete, so -concrete reliably indicates the 'not easy' sense ofhard.
Because hard in its 'not easy' sense also modifies concrete nouns syntactically,on the surface (though not semantically; see Section 5), +concrete does not as reliablyindicate the 'not soft' sense of hard.
Similarly, -concrete indicates the 'not wrong'senses of right, the 'not long' senses of short, and the 'gentle' subset of the 'not heavy'senses of light.
It also indicates 'not new' senses of old, but in this case -concrete issimply a special case of -animate.Another widely relevant class of indicators are body parts.
These indicate the 'notyoung' sense of old and the 'not long' sense of short.
A substantial subset of them indi-cate the directional sense of right.
This sense is associated with horizontally separatedmembers of (mostly inherently) paired, repeated entities; it is appropriate to horizon-tally separated, paired body parts eyes, ears, thumbs, hands, wrists, arms, legs, feet,etc.--which constitute the majority of nouns, by text frequency, that are modified bythe 'not left' sense of right.
For noninherently paired entities, more complex phras-ings such as on the right or rightmost are used instead (also on the left or leflmost).
Bodyparts are less well represented in the co-occurrence s ntences for hard; those that occur12John S. Justeson and Slava M. Katz Principled Disambiguation(shell, palate, tissue) are sense specific for 'not soft,' being specific cases of +concreteand subject o the reservations on +concrete indicator nouns noted above.Other semantic features are more restricted to individual adjective senses.
Theattribute +color disambiguates about half of the 'not dark' instances of light.
Length-related ('not long') senses of short are indicated by nouns that are +time period (term,period, day, duration, minute, month, night, time, weekend, in the co-occurrence s ntences),but this attribute is subsumable under -concrete.
Text/utterance type (e.g., story, note,book, manuscript, monolog, phrase, speech, stanza), though largely subsumable under-concrete, often have +concrete realizations (as for book, note, manuscript).Some highly specific attributes are clearly relevant; for example, +military entity(cruiser, carrier, gun, arms, armor, dragoon, flak, machine gun, missile) indicates the 'notheavy' sense of light, and +mental (answer, decision, reason, theory, argument, assump-tion, conclusion, conviction, guess, method, notion, opinion, policy, prediction, proposition,question) indicates 'not wrong' senses of right.
Until many more adjectives have beeninvestigated, we avoid introducing overly specific features whose range, applicabil-ity, and definition may be unclear.
These are perhaps ubsumable under more generalattributes.
This is the case for +mental, a special case of a highly reliable and more gen-eral indicator, -concrete (see Section 5.2 concerning the more complex case of militaryentity and the relation of text type, which we do use, to the time period attribute).In some cases, semantic features such as those discussed above can be usedstraightforwardly as sense indicators, just as nouns were.
For example, a +humannoun indicates the 'not tall' sense of short; a -concrete noun indicates a 'not long'sense of short.
In other cases, however, the move from specific nouns to semantic fea-tures as sense indicators necessitates the formulation of more specific rules for usingthem.
For example, -concrete nouns indicate a 'not heavy' sense of light, except hat-concrete nouns that are +color indicate its 'not dark' sense.
This requires a formu-lation using either feature combinations or rule ordering.
We can implement his byfirst attempting to apply a rule +color ~ 'not dark' and then attempting to apply arule -concrete ~ 'not heavy', to any unresolved cases (Table 2).
More complex rulescan be expected to be required in other cases.We do not propose, in general, to extract automatically either semantic general-izations like those discussed above, or the rules that use them.
Informed introspectiveanalysis, aided by a perusal of corpora, seems a surer way toward rule-based for-mulations.
Human analysis and understanding are simply richer than the mechanicalstatistical tools and data sources presently available for arriving at such rules.4.4.2 Syntactic Structure and the Adjective-Noun Relation.
When the nouns are rel-evant and indicator nouns are readily recovered, Section 4.4.1 shows that coverage canbe increased by exploiting specific indicator nouns in order to infer or to extract au-tomatically general semantic attributes of nouns.
For some of the indicators, however,generalization properly takes another course, leading not to semantic but to syntac-tic cues for sense identification.
For example, predicate adjective usage indicates thecorrectness sense of right, which is clearly manifested throughout the APHB Corpus.That's not quite right.Much thought had gone into that costume, and it seemed just right for a poor man'swife.We refer to these as cases of a predicative indicator feature.The most prominent example in our data is generalization from the non-anaphoricit indicator for the 'not easy' sense of hard, which is also applicable for the 'not wrong'13Computational Linguistics Volume 21, Number 1sense of right.
This indicator is found in statements of the form It BE ADJ + infinitivalclause, where BE is a form of the verb to be.
Auxiliary verbs, adverbials, or negationoccurs optionally in these statements, and the infinitival clause need not follow imme-diately.
It is often deleted, and in such cases an anaphoric pronoun may replace thenon-anaPhoric t, resolving to a preceding or following clause.
Also, the verb BE maybe deleted and the entire construction subordinated to a higher verb such as seems orbecomes.
We refer to these as cases of an infinitival indicator feature.It wasn't hard to find Marietta Price.Somehow it has never been hard for me to believe in Francis" wounds...It's sometimes hard for a motorist o pass a young fellow standing on theedge of a highway.Since he's doing this for his physical welfare, it wouldn't be right of me to lethim be bothered.A result of this pattern is that almost any verb will look like an indicator for thesesame senses of hard and right.
6 This appearance, however, is spurious.
The propergeneralization is simply the syntactic construction, including its variants in whichthe non-anaphoric it does not occur.
The variants include those in which the entireinfinitival clause, or a gerundive phrase based on it, serves as the subject of the mainclause, with hard or right as predicate adjective,But becoming more independent is hard for many children.and those in which a noun object from the infinitival clause is promoted to serve assubject of the verb of being, in place of it.Later, Mama may have regretted being married, because Papa was so hardto understand.Her energy was tremendous, her scruples hard to find.Since the adjective is characterizing an action or state of affairs, these cases can be sub-sumed under the +activity or -concrete semantic attributes discussed in Section 4.4.1as indicators of these senses of hard and right.
Even as a premodifier of a noun, theadjectives in this construction often relate semantically to the verb phrase, e.g.,This is a hard program to carry out.What is hard is the carrying out of the program, not the program itself.
Once again, itis the syntactic onstruction, and not the modified noun, that is the relevant indicator.These considerations help us to refine our use of the adjective-noun relation itselfand to put it on a firmer linguistic footing.
The adjective-noun relation is directly per-tinent to semantic attributes of both the adjective and the noun only when there is adeep syntactic relation between them.
In the case of the infinitival and related construc-tions, no such relation holds; the noun modified by the adjective at the surface level6 A minority of verbs with a specific relation to the opposite sense do exist, e.g., feel relates to the 'notsoft' sense of hard.
Such verbs relate to the alternative sense only when they are outside of theinfinitival constructions.14John S. Justeson and Slava M. Katz Principled Disambiguationis irrelevant.
A principled approach to adjective disambiguation using nouns there-fore requires a determination that the adjective modifies the noun at a deep syntacticlevel.
It is therefore important to take into account he infinitival construction prior todisambiguating any adjective--even those for which it does not constitute an indicator.The last two columns of Table 1 present the results of adjective disambiguation bya combination ofsyntactic and semantic indicator attributes.
The disambiguating ruleswe used are given in Table 2.
The syntactic indicator attributes, predicative and infiniti-val, were applied first.
Afterward, if a target adjective sense was not resolved, semanticindicator attributes were applied; no individual indicator nouns were used.
The se-mantic attributes that were applied were animate, body part, color, concrete, human,and text type; Church and Hanks (1989) had pointed to two of these attributes, personand body part (also time, previously mentioned above) in a seemingly casual istingof just five attributes potentially useful for describing the lexico-syntactic regularitiesof noun-verb relations.Table 1 shows that these few, general attributes cover almost three-quarters ofall instances of the target adjectives.
Disambiguation by these syntactic and semanticattributes i effectively as reliable as disambiguation using significant indicator nouns:having three apparent errors in disambiguation is not significantly worse than theerrorless performance of the significant indicator nouns in the 100-sentence samples.In fact, under a deeper analysis, these three cases are consistent with the pertinentattributes and should not be treated as errors at all.
In one sentence,In contrast o his rangy sons, he was a short, heavy, oaken-barrel sort of man.short modifies ort (-concrete) and was thus assigned the sense 'not long.'
However,it is actually relevant not to the head of the noun phrase, sort, but rather to man(+animate); so treated, short would be correctly assigned to 'not tall.'
More complex arethe two instances of old wine.
In the APHB Corpus at large, the new~old contrast appliedto wine relates chiefly to contexts of production of the wine or of the introductionof a type of wine.
The young~old contrast relates instead to the maturation of somewines, or more generally, to the developmental phases through which wine passeswhile aging over a period of years.
It is a cultural (and thus semantic) fact that winesand other nonanimate entities that undergo developmental changes and pass throughmaturational stages are treated as living things.
Since the two instances of wine in the100-sentence samples are of this sort, their old modifiers are properly assigned to 'notyoung'; we assigned them to 'not new' under a literal interpretation f -animate.The rules in Table 2 can be easily implemented.
The approach presupposes thatthe natural language processing system within which it is applied includes a reliable,wide-coverage parser to determine the noun phrase modified by an adjective andthe head of that noun phrase.
The lexical database used by this parser must includesemantic attribute tags.
Most of those used in this paper are already present in someavailable machine-readable dictionaries, uch as the Longman Dictionary of ContemporaryEnglish.
Such a disambiguation procedure is capable of disambiguating, with veryhigh reliability, about hree-quarters of the 100-sentence sample instances of the targetadjectives we have investigated.5.
Further Considerat ionsAlthough the sense clues discussed so far can be readily implemented as a disam-biguation procedure, about a quarter of all instances of the adjectives under studywere not covered by the rules presented in Table 2.
This section addresses these un-15Computational Linguistics Volume 21, Number 1Table 2Disambiguation of adjectives by syntactic and semantic attributes.
Rulesassociated with lower numbers are applied before rules associated withhigher numbers.
Rules associated with the same number are unorderedrelative to one another.Target Adjective Disambiguating RulesHard 1.
+infinitival ~ 'not easy'2.
-concrete ~ 'not easy'+concrete ~ 'not soft'1.
+color ~ 'not dark'2.
-concrete ~ 'not heavy'1.
-animate ~ 'not new'+animate ~ 'not young'1.
+predicative ~ 'not wrong'+infinitival ~ 'not wrong'2.
-concrete ~ 'not wrong'+human ~ 'not wrong'+body part ~ 'not left'1.
+human ~ 'not tall'-concrete ~ 'not long'+body part ~ 'not long'+text ype ~ 'not long'LightOldRightShortcovered cases.
Some are readily characterized in terms of the general approach of theprevious section; others are more complex.The following discussion treats the kinds of properties that systematically relateadjective senses to other features of the sentences in which they occur.
Unlike theprevious section, it does not point to any automated procedure to take advantage ofthese properties, or to the role they might play in some more encompassing procedure,and it uses coverage and reliability as measures of the actual association of adjectivesenses with other constructs, irrespective of their recoverability from raw text.
Thus,this section is concerned with the nature of underlying relations--not with formulatinga disambiguation procedure.5.1 Indicator Noun Sense AttributesWe have found that a substantial proportion of adjectives can be disambiguated by thenouns they modify, largely on the basis of general semantic attributes characterizingthose nouns.
These attributes, being semantic, must relate in fact to noun senses andnot to nouns per se.
This issue is finessed, to some extent, in the projected indicatornouns and thus in our application of attributes based on them.
Some attributes happento apply to all senses of a given noun.
For example, in the 100-sentence samples, coursedisambiguates short, though once it is used for 'path' and once for 'class,' because bothsenses are -concrete.
Some indicator nouns were extracted, not because the attributeapplies to all senses of these nouns, but because these nouns are used far more often insenses to which an indicator attribute applies than in those to which it does not apply.For example, people shows a statistically significant endency to be associated with the'aged' ('not young') senses of old (when people is the plural of person), as judged fromthe co-occurrence s ntences, although one instance of the 'of long standing' ('not new')senses of old (when people meant 'ethnic group') was also found.16John S. Justeson and Slava M. Katz Principled DisambiguationIn many instances in the 100-sentence samples, the noun modified by a targetadjective was ambiguous with respect o one of the indicator attributes: an indicatorattribute did characterize some of the noun's common senses, but not others.
Forexample, the noun side is projected to occur equally often with each sense of right ('notleft' 49.9%, 'not wrong'  50.1%).
However, this noun has two broad classes of meanings:one refers to commitments on issues and is -concrete; the other refers to flanks andis +concrete.
As expected on the basis of this semantic attribute, right usually means'not left' when it modifies side in its (locational) sense 'flank,' but virtually alwaysmeans 'not wrong'  when modifying side in its commitment  sense.
The sense of side istherefore a more reliable indicator of the sense of right than is the noun itself.If these nouns are disambiguated with respect o the relevant attribute, reliabilitycan be increased, as in the case of right side.
Coverage will increase as well.
Some nounshave two or more common senses that disagree in the value of relevant attributes andthus were not recovered as indicator nouns; their senses might well be reliable indicatorfeatures.
Disagreements in the value of a semantic attribute for a given noun can evenbe systematic.
Any noun N with sense S can be used to mean 'a type of S,' as withfamily doctor inSwedes lament he almost otal disappearance ofthe old family doctor.When types are construed as -concrete, as when referring to roles, such uses arespecific to 'not new' senses of old (and to 'not wrong'  senses of right).
Thus, any nounor semantic attribute that is associated with the alternative senses of these adjectiveswould be wrongly interpreted when a 'type of S' usage of the noun is not recognized.Another widely pertinent example is the more complex ambiguity in the referenceof modif ied nouns for roles or relationships.
A role noun almost always refers to anindividual (+animate) who stands in that relationship to another, as in all the examplesentences cited below; for example, when the nuns, new and old, filed out of the cloister,it was a set of persons and not of relationships who did so.
The adjective, however,may apply to that individual (a +animate noun sense) or to the role itself (a -an imatenoun sense).
Thus, the adjective old may apply either to the relationship or to the roledesignated by doctor, friend, empress, and nun, with old having the sense ' former'  or 'oflong standing':...
I was with old friends; I had made new friends; and that night I think that I waslonelier than ever before.It was only to be expected that the lords and ladies of the court would compare the firstwife and the second, the old empress and the new.. ,  all in favor of the old.A prayer, the Bishop's blessing--and the nuns, new and old, filed out to the cloister.or to a person having that relationship or role, with old having the sense 'aged':?..
he rang to six friends, not too young, not too old, and explained that he'd have topostpone their dinner.The old doctor and the young doctor rode in silence for two miles and indulged intheir memories?On the contrary, these nuns, young and old, were invariably cheerful and happy,almost gay and full of childish fun and laughter...17Computational Linguistics Volume 21, Number 1There is an inherent ambiguity concerning the relation of the adjective old to its noun:the referent of the noun is an individual (which is +animate), but it is an associatednoun sense to which the adjective applies (which may be +animate or -animate) thatstrictly determines the sense of old.
In the 100-sentence samples, when old modifies arole noun, it always applies in its 'aged' sense to the individual and in its ' former'sense to the role.
Some role/relationship nouns are used overwhelmingly in their rolesenses (as with friend) or in their personal senses (as with doctor).
Otherwise, inferringthe correct sense for old involves a resolution of the function of the noun.
For example,an old forest is 'not new' if it has existed for a great period of time and 'not young' if itis in an advanced stage of development in the life cycle of forests (cf., the discussionof wine in Section 4.4.2).This semantic ambiguity in the noun sense to which the adjective applies cantherefore be resolved by the same rules formulated for unambiguous cases, once therelevant noun sense is identified.
How to access the relevant noun sense is an unsolvedproblem: the noun's direct referent is an individual, whereas the semantic structure n-tailed by the noun is a semantic network, and the adjective may apply to the network'snoun sense nodes rather than to the noun referent itself.
The utility and elegance ofsuch semantic representations is suggested by linguistic discussions on lexical seman-tics.
They have been used with notable success by Fillmore and Atkins (1991), whoexploit the intricacies of such networks in a now-classic account of the semantics ofrisk, with different nodes of the network providing the locus of what might be dis-tilled as the word's distinct senses.
Similar network representations are adopted andimplemented in restricted omains in several computational models (e.g., Sowa 1986).The semantics of noun senses therefore relate more specifically and directly toadjective senses than do nouns themselves; in fact, 38 (30%) of the 125 cases notcovered by the rules of Table 2 are resolved when these broader semantic structuresare used.
In most of these cases, noun senses themselves supplied the attributes usedby the rules of Table 2 to disambiguate adjectives.
In other cases, such as role nouns,with more complex semantic structures, we are able to resolve the semantic relationof adjective and noun, but this ability cannot be captured in rules as simple as thoseof Table 2.5.2 Other Indicators of Adjective SensesSection 4 showed that indicator nouns and, in particular, certain of their semanticfeatures are quite reliable as bases for interpreting the meanings of the adjectives thatmodify them.
In some cases, however, nouns provided very little assistance whenthe pertinent semantic and syntactic features do not apply, the same noun is oftensimply consistent with alternative senses.
This was systematically true for relationshipnouns modified by old.
Similarly, the adjective light can refer either to weight or tocolor in modifying most concrete nouns.In these cases, disambiguation i volves words other than the noun that the targetadjective modifies, standing in other syntactic relations to the target.
The effectivenessof one such alternative has already been demonstrated--the special case of antonymicadjectives.
In the special constructions discussed in Section 3 and, in particular, whenthey modify the same noun, they disambiguate one another with almost perfect reli-ability.
Consider, for example, the sentenceA piece will seldom bake uniformly, even with the most loving attention--that is, itwill vary from light to very dark...The target adjective light modifies the pronoun it, which refers anaphorically back to18John S. Justeson and Slava M. Katz Principled Disambiguationpiece (of food being baked).
Light pieces of food may be either 'not dark' or 'not heavy,'so the noun provides no substantial aid to interpretation.
However, the phrase fromlight to dark secures the intended sense of light.Verb senses can relate systematically to adjective senses, because adjectives oftendesignate attributes pertinent to the application of the verbal action to /by  the referentof the modified object/subject noun.
Verbs are therefore useful to the interpretation ofadjectives modifying subject or object nouns.
Returning to the difficult case of light,one of the 7 sentences in which an error was made when all nouns were treated asindicators (see Section 4.3) isA spatula is also used for lifting light pieces of food...In this sentence, the head noun pieces is irrelevant, essentially empty semantically.
Thecritical noun is food, but it is not a directly usable indicator; light food may be either'not heavy,' as in this sentence, or 'not dark,' as in the previous example.
It is insteadthe verb lifting that provides the best sentence-internal indication of the 'weight' senseof light in the example under consideration.
The 5 APHB sentences that refer to thelifting of a light object all involve the 'not heavy' sense of light.
This is not a logicalrequirement--both dark and heavy objects are also said to be lifted.
But the weight ofan object is intrinsically relevant and its color irrelevant to the lifting of ~,hat object; areference to the lifting of a light N in the 'not dark' sense is likely to be misconstruedunless additional cues to interpretation are provided.
Similar results are found forsemantically similar verbs.
Thus, carry disambiguates light inFurniture movers, for example, carry light objects in their hands.whereas the modified noun is of no help.
Accordingly, physically supports is a seman-tic attribute of some indicator verbs for the 'not heavy' sense of light.In some cases when a noun or even a noun sense is consistent with more thanone sense of the target adjective that modifies it, a default arget sense may be reliablyinferred so long as there is no strong counter-evidence in the immediate context.
Olddoctor, for example, means 'aged doctor' in 28 of 30 instances in our corpus.
The other2 cases are both for old family doctor.
In one, the sentence itself makes it clear thata generic 'type of doctor' sense was intended (see Section 5.1).
Similarly, old means'former' in the sentenceI know that the old family doctor, Dr. Schlomm, always told Manya she could bestabilized on medication, that she could be kept under control.as shown by the immediately following sentence:So did her present doctor.A more complex example of default inference is provided by right as a modifier of side.The commitment sense of side strongly favors the correctness sense of right, whereasthe locational senses of side favor the directional senses of right.
However, even withthe locational sense of side, 'not wrong' is not an anomalous usage.
Compare, forexample, the following sentences from the APHB Corpus:They were hiding behind the big oak on the left side of the road.19Computational Linguistics Volume 21, Number 1"Can't you see you're on the wrong side of the road?
"Hoover leaped from his car and ran to the left side of the gangster's car.Zaza still stood in the road, on the wrong side of the car.In the face of such examples, it becomes difficult to interpret he adjective in suchsentences asBut the car, now on the right \[not left\] side of the road, was too late to veer away fromthe second tire...He was on the right \[not wrong\] side of the screen, he had an excellent day's workbehind him, and in two minutes" time he would hear Bing Crosby sing.except with respect o the broader discourse context.
In our data, locational senses ofside always involve the directional sense of right in right side of unless there is decisiveevidence to the contrary in the same sentence or in the immediately surroundingdiscourse.
In many of the directional sense uses, we find no overt clue within thesentence or the immediate discourse to determine the sense; it appears to be simplythe assumed interpretation when no specific information contradicts it.
In contrast,for each of the (6 out of 45) instances in which a correctness sense of right modifies alocational sense of side in right side of, there is something explicit in the near context,usually in the same sentence.
For example, the ambiguous case of the right side of thescreen, above, is resolved by a preceding sentence (two short sentences intervene):Across the centre of the hall hung a screen, and on this screen was being projected amotion picture; half the men had to see the picture back to front, because they had to lookat it from the back \[the wrong side\] of the screen, but nobody minded that very much.The directional sense of right cannot be construed as a general default, since the cor-rectness ense is far more common overall.
Evidently, the locational sense of side ofis so powerful a semantic indicator for the directional sense of right that people donot use right side of in other senses without providing substantial countervaling evi-dence for the sense.
Relative to a given indicator noun, then, it makes sense to thinkof adjective disambiguation i terms of default interpretations.Some noun-based isambiguation of adjectives involves the noun's functionalityrather than its intrinsic semantic attributes; many such nouns relate to relevant at-tributes of indicator verbs.
The adjective light, when modifying a +concrete noun, is acase in point.
Both weight and color characterize all +concrete ntities.
In fact, how-ever, we can reliably determine the sense of light in a number of these cases.
Threenouns in the co-occurrence sentences emerged as significant indicators for the 'notheavy' sense of light--cruiser, load, and harness.
It is the weight and not the color of aload that is functionally relevant; the thickness and thus weight of a harness that bearson the speed and load-bearing potential of the draught animals fitted with it; and theheaviness of a vessel that is relevant o the speed, ease of handling, load-bearing po-tential, and imperviousness to damage that is pertinent o military cruisers.
In fact, ifit were necessary to specify such entities as being light in color, we would expect hattheir functional specificity for lightness in weight would lead to the use of a more spe-cific qualifier, such as light-colored, rather than simply light.
Semantic attributes uch ascarried things would characterize nouns such as load, e.g., burden, cargo, or freight, andload-bearing equipment or load-relevant equipment would characterize nouns such as20John S. Justeson and Slava M. Katz Principled Disambiguationharness and cruiser.
In the sample of sentences containing light, the following might besubsumed under such attributes: aircraft, brigade, car, cart, defense, guard, horse, industry,package, shell, tank, and weight.
Some of these, such as shell and tank, have meaningsto which the load-bearing issue is not relevant, though in the case of tank the appli-cation of the adjective light does appear to restrict its referent to the military vehicle.Others, such as car, involve issues of fashion and decoration to which color and thusdarkness is potentially relevant as well, although the 5 instances of light car(s) in ourcorpus do refer to weight (with dark car(s) referring to a darkened interior).
But suit-ably constrained either to subsets in which decoration is not a functional value (e.g.,military~industrial equipment) or by treating feature combinations that include, e.g.,-decorative relevance, it would be possible if not ideal to handle such nouns in termsof attribute values.
Thus, some nouns can be disambiguated by relatively narrowlydefined semantic lasses, such as military/industrial equipment, and with high relia-bility, leading to something close to lexicalized noun phrases, e.g., light cruiser or lightindustry.
But it is in fact the functional relevance of heaviness versus darkness in thecontext of its use that is actually involved.A more complex example is provided by those indicators for the 'not long' senseof short that are types of texts or utterances--book, manuscript, monologue, note, phrase,poem, speech, stanza, story, and syllable.
These, like +time period, are largely subsumableunder the -concrete feature, but there are also +concrete instances of some of thesenouns, such as book, that still select he 'not long' sense of short.
In these instances, it isnot a physical dimension of the item that is short, and reference to such dimensions inthe case of book relates instead to the 'not tall' sense of short.
Superficially, this mightsupport he pertinence of a special attribute, textual, for disambiguating short.
How-ever, the 'not long' characterization f shortness of texts refers explicitly or implicitlyto the duration of the performance ( .g., reading or reciting) of the text.
Accordingly, itis the time period attribute that would appear to be involved in this case---an attributeof activities that constitute the typical use of texts, not an attribute of texts themselves.The relationship involved in this case is comParable to that discussed by Pustejovskyand Boguraev (1993), in which a single sense of fast relates peed of vehicle motion inboth fast car and fast highway via the qualia structure of lexical entries for highway andcar.
Accordingly, although most instances of nouns for text types can disambiguateshort by being -concrete, the principled basis for disambiguating the adjective ntailsa more complex type of inference than simple characterization f semantic attributesof the modified noun itself.6.
Concluding RemarksFor the adjectives and adjective senses under study, it has been demonstrated that thenoun modified by an adjective provides, in most cases, an extremely reliable indicationof the sense of that adjective.
General semantic attributes of the modified noun provideequally reliable and more widely applicable indications of adjective meanings.
Theseattributes are conceptually relevant and compact ways of representing the semanticrelation between adjectives and their modified nouns.
When the noun is such thatit does not disambiguate he adjective, other words in other specific relations oftenprovide this information.
Once again, these words reflect semantic lasses rather thanspecific lexical items and provide a compact and meaningful semantic haracterizationof the relation of the adjective to the related word class.This work also supports the view that a small number of close syntactic relationschannel much of the semantic interpretation i volved in disambiguation, at least inthe case of sense dichotomies in adjectives.
We suspect hat when this highly struc-21Computational Linguistics Volume 21, Number 1tured type of evidence is removed, the more diffuse kinds of clues implicit in masscontextual comparison approaches still have a principled role in disambiguation, e.g.,by providing a generalized feel for the overall topical preferences of target senses.The data on which this study is based were analyzed statistically, and our re-sults were summarized quantitatively.
These analyses, however, were not provided inanticipation of the creation of statistical procedures for automated word sense disam-biguation, but rather to help us to explore and to establish a property of language--thatgeneral semantic attributes of noun senses correlate with the senses of the adjectivesthat modify these nouns.
The phenomenon itself can now be formulated in nonquanti-tative terms.
In addressing or utilizing this phenomenon, corpora remain quite useful,supplying examples of word use that can be used for insight and serious discourseanalysis.The main goals of this paper were to investigate conceptual issues in adjectivedisambiguation.
The above results, however, may provide a basis for a useful corecomponent of an automated procedure that disambiguates adjectives, with the restto be covered by an auxiliary procedure.
This core component's coverage of three-quarters of adjective instances i lower than can be attained by other approaches, eventhose with quite high reliability.
Nonetheless, uch a core has practical advantages:when it is applicable, it is virtually errorless; and if there are errors, it is known wherethey will be concentrated---in the remaining quarter of cases, those resolved by theauxiliary procedure.
The full procedure can then attain a 97-98% reliability level evenif the auxiliary procedure has only 90% reliability.The results of this study need to be extended in several ways.
First, they should beextended to cover a substantial number of adjectives.
Any such enterprise always leadsto improved understanding, but there is also reason to believe that the results will becomparable to those we report.
The five adjectives investigated in this paper epresenta fair range in terms of difficulty: the relations between the pairs of senses range frombarely distinct (short), to interrelated in complex and sometimes subtle ways (old),to semantically orthogonal ( ight).
These adjectives are among the most frequent inEnglish and, correspondingly, are applicable to a variety of nouns, so they may beon average somewhat more useful than most for investigating the interpretation ofadjectives based upon nouns.
It is of course important to investigate types of sensediscriminations other than the antonymically defined pairs that were imposed by thedesign of this study.The results hould also be extended to investigate more fully the contributions ofother types of syntactic relations of adjectives.
Although it appears that verb-baseddisambiguation f adjectives can be formulated in the same way as noun-based is-ambiguation, we have not yet systematically studied the contribution of verbs.
As inthe case of nouns, we expect he appropriate representation to be in terms of semanticclasses rather than sets of words (cf.
Levin 1993).
It would also be useful to addressthe possible contribution of adjectives other than the sense-specific antonyms.Finally, the results need to be extended beyond the class of adjectives.
Most directly,nouns are probably as reliably disambiguated byadjectives as adjectives are by nouns.Appendix A: Extracting Word Sense Indicator FeaturesThis paper treats the disambiguation f adjectives relative to antonym-specific senses,with the nouns they modify as clues suggesting which sense pertains to a given in-stance.
We model this situation more generally as follows.22John S. Justeson and Slava M. Katz Principled DisambiguationA.1 DefinitionLet T be a target feature of a sentence or other textual unit that is to be disambiguatedwith respect o some set of characteristics $1 .
.
.
.
.
Sn; in our study, n is 2, and $1 and$2 are two groups of senses, each group relating semantically to a particular antonymof a target adjective T. Let F be some feature that can be associated with the targetfeature T in the same textual unit; F may in general be any feature of a sentence orother textual unit that contains T, e.g., a semantic attribute, a word, a phrase, or agrammatical pattern.
In our study, F is a noun modified by a target adjective T. Weabbreviate the event "sense of T = S" as "S" and "F is in the context of T" as "F."Then F provides evidence concerning the sense of T if, for some i and j, the conditionalprobability P(Si I F} is not equal to P{Sj \[ F}.
We call F an indicator for the sense Si ofT if the conditional probability of Si given F is higher than the conditional probabilityof any other sense given F: P{Si \[ F} > P{Sj \[ F} for all j  i.A.2 Estimation of P{Si \[ F}The desired probabilities P{Si \[ F}, i = 1, .
.
.
,  n, can be estimated from a representativesample of sentences with T in a corpus.
However, a subcorpus in which T is disam-biguated by a particular set of clues may bias the sense distribution; the desired prob-abilities differ, in general, from probabilities Q{Si \[ F} defined on such disambiguatedsubcorpora.
The formula we derive for P{Si \[ F} takes into account his possible bias.In the derivation, we use an intuitively reasonable assumption that the occurrence ofa potential indicator feature F depends only upon the sense of the target T with whichit is associated and not upon the fact that it occurs in the subcorpora (in our case,primarily a phrasal substitution context of antonym co-occurrence s ntences), i.e., thatQ{F I Si} = P{F I Si}.
This need not be true for arbitrary disambiguating features, butwe treat it as approximately correct in the case of nouns modified by a target adjective.Starting with P{Si IF} and applying the identitiesP{Si IF} ---- P{F\[Si}P{Si}p{F} , Q{F\[Si} -- Q{SiQ{Si}\[F}Q{F}, and ~-~P{Si IF} = 1,we obtain for i = 1, .
.
.
,  nP{Si} qi , where qi = piQ{Si \[ F} and Pi = Q{Si}" P{Si I r} - GqkkThe qi are the conditional probabilities Q{Si I F} weighted by the bias ratios Pi definedabove.
When there is no bias, i.e., when Pi = 1 and P{Si} -- Q{Si} for all i, then theformula yields simply P{Si l F} = Q{Si l F}.For cases with two senses, the formulas areP{s, IF} = plQ{S1 \[F} and P{S2 l F} -- p2Q{S2 \ [F}  plQ{S1 IF} + p2Q{S2 I F} plQ{S1 \] F} q- p2Q{S2 \] F}"Most of the target adjectives we investigated have a substantial sense bias, becausetheir antonyms co-occur with them at substantially different rates.
When all instancesof F in the disambiguated subcorpora fall in the same sense group, the estimatedprobability for that sense given the feature F is 1, regardless of the values of thebiases pi; this was the typical case in our experiment because of the specificity of themodified nouns (Section 4.2).
But whether or not these estimated sense probabilitiesare statistically significant does depend on the Pi values.23Computational Linguistics Volume 21, Number 1We illustrate the use of the formulas for our data.
Let T = old, S~ = 'not new,'$2 = 'not young,'  and F = friend(s).
Because we want to estimate the probabilitiesP{Si \[ F} for our sample sentences in particular and not for the corpus at large, it isfor these sentences that we determine the P{Si} needed for computing the values ofthe pi.
The data are given in Table 3.
In this table, nl is the number  of instances ofsense $1 of a target in the 100-sentence sample for that target, and n2 is the numberof such instances for the other sense; P{Si \] F} is the corresponding probabil ity of thesense Si of the target in the samples.
For our example,P { S1 } - nl _ 48nl + n2 48 + 44- -  - 0.522 and P{S2} = 1 - P{S1} = 0.478.Estimates for Q{S1 } and Q{S2} are obtained from ml and m2, the numbers of instancesin which the two antonyms modify the same noun as the target in the co-occurrencesentences; they areml _ 463Q{S1 } - ml q- m2 463 + 266 - 0.635 and Q{S2} = 1 - Q{S2} = 0.365.The resulting bias ratios areP { S1} 0.522Pl - -  Q{S1} - 0.635P{S2} 0.478- -  - 0.822 and P2 -- Q{S2} - 0.365 - -  - 1.311.The bias ratios for all five pairs of adjective senses in our study are given in Table 3.The probabilities Q{S1 \[ F} and Q{S2 I F} are estimated from the observed frequenciesin the co-occurrence sentences.
Friend or friends is modif ied by both old and new in 9sentences and by both old and young in 1 sentence, yielding an estimate of 9/10 forQ{S1 I F} and 1/10 for Q{S2 \] F}.
Substituting these figures into the formula yields theestimates0.822 x 0.9P{S1 I F} = 0.822 x 0.9 + 1.311 x 0.1 = 0.849 and P{S2 I F} = 1 - 0.849 = 0.151.According to these probabilities we estimate for the sample sentences, we expect hatfriend should appear  to indicate the 'not new'  sense of old there, though somewhatless than in the co-occurrence sentences themselves.A.3  Assess ing  Stat i s t i ca l  S ign i f i cance  o f  Ind icatorsWhile the estimated probabilities of the senses of old when it modifies friend(s) dodiffer substantially, these estimates are based on only 10 occurrences of friend(s) inthe co-occurrence sentences.
The low number  of instances of old modifying friend(s)raises the possibility that the difference in estimated probabilities might be spurious,a chance deviation.
This section explains how we tested this possibility, i.e., how wedecided whether an observed ifference is statistically significant.Our null hypothesis i  that there is no difference between the probabilities P{S1 I F}and P{S2 \[ F}.
We test this equiprobabil ity hypothesis using a 5% significance level,i.e., we reject it if the probabil ity of so large an observed eviation from this hypothesisis 5% or less.
Because we did not specify a hypothetical sense preference in advancefor each word, we use two-tailed tests.We frame the null hypothesis of equal sense probabilities P{Si \[ F} in terms of thecorresponding sense distribution in the sample sentences.
We are testing, however,24John S. Justeson and Slava M. Katz Principled DisambiguationTable 3Projected probabilities and bias factors for five ambiguous adjectives.
S~ and $2 are theantonym-related sense groups for the target adjective, in alphabetical order by antonym; themi (i = 1, 2) are the numbers of instances in which the target in sense Si and the correspondingantonym co-occur modifying the same noun; the Q{Si} are the relative frequencies,mi/(ml + m2); the ni are the numbers of instances of the target adjective in sense Si in the100-sentence sample for that target; the P{5i} are the relative frequencies, ni/(nl q- n2); the Piare the bias ratios, P{Si}/Q{Si}; and the Q{Si} are the probabilities projected for theco-occurrence s ntences under the null hypothesis of equiprobability in the general corpusrepresented by the 100-sentence samples.TargetAdjective ml m2 Q{S1} Q{S2} nl r/2 P{S1} P{S2} pl p2 Q{S1} (7~{$2}Hard 14 43 0.246 0.754 69 20 0.775 0.225 3.157 0.298 0.086 0.914Light 59 33 0.641 0.359 31 67 0.316 0.684 0.493 1.906 0.794 0.206Old 463 266 0.635 0.365 48 44 0.522 0.478 0.822 1.311 0.615 0.385Right 312 142 0.687 0.313 22 77 0.222 0.778 0.323 2.487 0.885 0.115Short 185 18 0.911 0.089 86 9 0.916 0.084 0.933 1.068 0.518 0.482in the co-occurrence s ntences.
We need to determine the probabilities Q{Si F} forthe co-occurrence s ntences that would correspond to P{Si \] F} = 1/2 in the corpusat large.
We denote this probability as Q{Si \] F}.
We use the same formula for thiscomputation as was used in the estimation problem above.
This time, however, it isthe probability in the co-occurrence s ntences that we project from an assumed 50-50distribution of senses with respect o the noun for the sample sentences; i.e., for caseswith two senses, we have to solve the simultaneous equations1 p lQ{S1 \]F} and 1 ~--_ p2(7~{$2 IF}2 plQ{St \] F} + p2(~{S 2 \[ F} 2 plQ{S\] \] F} + p2Q{S2 \[ F}with Q{S1 \]F} and Q{S2 \[F} as unknowns.
The values(~{St \] F} - p2 and Q{S2 IF} - plPl q- P2 Pl -}- P2are unique solutions to these equations.
7Returning to the example of old friend(s), the null hypothesis i reformulated as1.311Q{S1 IF} - 0.822 + 1.311 0.615 and Q{S2 IF} = 1 - 0.615 = 0.385.We now have a model for the probability of each sense in the co-occurrence s ntences,on the assumption that sense selection is in fact independent of the modified noun7 In the general case, if the target has n senses, the equiprobability hypothesis i expressed by thesimultaneous equations1 pi?~(s~ I F}n = ~,k PkO.
{Sk I F} i = 1 .
.
.
.
.
n,with the unique solutions1Q(SiJF} - pi i=  1 .
.
.
.
.
n.k=l ~25Computational Linguistics Volume 21, Number 1in the corpus at large.
In the example of old friend(s), with Q{S1 I F} = 0.615, 6.15of the 10 instances of old friend(s) in the co-occurrence sentences are expected to be'not new.'
The 9 attested instances, then, are somewhat greater than expected underthe null hypothesis.
To decide whether this excess might be a chance deviation fromexpectation, we compute the probabil ity p that 9 or more instances of 'not young'would be observed out of 10 instances of old friend(s), if Q{S1 I F} = 0.615.
Since weare using a two-tailed test with a significance level of 5%, we reject the null hypothesisif p < 0.025.The formula for computing the one-tailed probabil ity p is a sum of binomial prob-abilities.
Let St be the sense that we project to be preferred in the corpus at large, giventhat the modif ied noun is F; i.e., it is the sense $1 if P{S1 I F} > P{S2 I F}, and it is thesense $2 otherwise.
ThenP = y~ ml q- m2 k x Q{St IF} k x (1 - Q{St IF}) mlq-m2-k,k=mtwhere the mi are the numbers of instances of the target in sense Si that modify F in theco-occurrence sentences.
In the example of old friend(s), ml +m2 = 10, Q{S1 I F} = 0.615,t = 1, and mt = 9, so the probabil ity of observing 9 or more instances of old friend(s)10 / k0 ) in the sense 'not new,' in the co-occurrence sentences, is ~k=9 x 0.615 k x :i0.385 l?-k = 0.056 under the null hypothesis.
Since p is greater than 0.025, we do notreject the null hypothesis; friend(s) is not a statistically significant indicator for eithersense of old.When all instances of F fall in the same sense group (which was typically thecase in our data), the formula for one-tailed probabil ity p is reduced to the one-termexpressionp = Q{St IF} m'In the case of old person(s), ml = 0, m2 = 7, P{S1 I F} = O, P{S2 I F} = 1, t = 2, and(~{$2 I F} = 0.385; so p = 0.3857 = 0.00125.
Since p is less than 0.025, we reject the nullhypothesis of equiprobabil ity of senses; person(s) is a statistically significant indicatorfor the 'not young'  sense of old.AcknowledgmentsWe thank Branimir Boguraev, JudithKlavans, and two anonymous reviewers forvery helpful comments on earlier versionsof this paper.ReferencesBoguraev, Branimir; Byrd, Roy; Klavans,Judith; and Neff, Mary (1989).
"Fromstructural analysis of lexical resources tosemantics in a lexical knowledge base.
"Proceedings, Workshop on Lexical Acquisition.International Joint Conference onArtificial Intelligence (IJCAI).Braden-Harder, Lisa (1991).
"Sensedisambiguatio.n using on-line dictionaries:An approach using linguistic structureand multiple sources of information.
"Masters thesis, Department of ComputerScience, New York University, New York.Charles, Walter G., and Miller, George A.(1989).
"Contexts of antonymousadjectives."
Applied Psycholinguistics10(3):357-375.Church, Kenneth W., and Hanks, Patrick(1989).
"Word association orms, mutualinformation, and lexicography."
InProceedings, 27th Annual Meeting of theAssociation for Computational Linguistics,ACL.
76-83.Fillmore, Charles A., and Atkins, Beryl T.(1991).
"Word meaning: Starting whereMRDs stop."
Plenary paper presented atthe 29th Annual Meeting of theAssociation for ComputationalLinguistics, Berkeley, California.Francis, Winthrop N., and Kucera, Henry26John S. Justeson and Slava M. Katz Principled Disambiguation(1982).
Frequency Analysis of English Usage:Lexicon and Grammar.
Boston:Houghton-Miffin.Gale, William; Church, Kenneth W.; andYarowsky, David (1992).
"Estimatingupper and lower bounds on theperformance of word-sensedisambiguation programs."
Proceedings,30th Annual Meeting of the Association forComputational Linguistics, ACL.
249-256.Gross, Derek; Fischer, Ute; and Miller,George A.
(1989).
"Antonymy and therepresentation f adjectival meanings.
"Journal of Memory and Language28(1):92-106.Hindle, Donald, and Rooth, Mats (1991).
"Structural ambiguity and lexicalrelations."
Proceedings, 29th Annual Meetingof the Association for ComputationalLinguistics, ACL.
229-236.Justeson, John S., and Katz, Slava M.
(1991).
"Co-occurrences of antonymousadjectives and their contexts.
"Computational Linguistics 17(1):1-19.Justeson, John S., and Katz, Slava M.
(1992).
"Redefining antonymy: The textualstructure of a semantic relation."
Journal ofLiterary and Linguistic Computing7(3):176-184.Levin, Beth (1993).
English Verb Classes andAlternations: A Preliminary Investigation.Chicago: University of Chicago Press.Maarek, Yoelle, and Smadja, Frank (1989).
"Full text indexing based on lexicalrelations, an application: Softwarelibraries."
Proceedings, ACM SIGIR, ACM.198-206.Pustejovsky, James, and Boguraev, Branimir(1993).
"Lexical knowledge representationand natural anguage processing.
"Artificial Intelligence.
Special Issue on NaturalLanguage 63:193-223.Sowa, John E (1986).
Conceptual Structures:Information Processing in Mind and Machine.Reading, Massachusetts: Addison-Wesley.Yarowsky, David (1992).
"Word-sensedisambiguation using statistical models ofRoget's categories trained on largecorpora."
In Proceedings, InternationalConference on Computational Linguistics(COLING-92).
454-460.27
