An Automatic Procedure forTopic-Focus IdentificationEva Haji~ovfi  *Charles UniversityPetr  Sgall*Charles UniversityHana Skoumalov f i  *Charles UniversityThe dichotomy of topic and focus, based, in the Praguean Functional Generative Description,on the scale of communicative dynamism, is relevant not only for a possible placement of thesentence in a context, but also for its semantic interpretation.
An automatic identification oftopic and focus may use the input information on word order, on the systemic ordering of kindsof complementations (reflected by the underlying order of the items included in the focus), ondefiniteness, and on lexical semantic properties of words.
An algorithm for the analysis of Englishsentences has been implemented and is discussed and illustrated on several examples.1.
Topic and focus in Functional Generative DescriptionIn the framework of Functional Generative Description (FGD), elaborated by thePrague research group of theoretical and computational linguistics, topic and focusare understood as constituting one of the hierarchies typical for the (underlying) syn-tactic structure of the sentence.
A detailed discussion of this framework, includingexplicit definitions of the basic notions, can be found in Sgall, Haji~ov~, and Panevov~(1986), Haji~ov~ and Sgall (1987), Sgall (1987), Petkevi~ (1987; in preparation).
In thepresent paper it is possible only to characterize these notions briefly and informally.However, an algorithm is included that determines the topic-focus tructure of theinput sentences (on their nonmarginal readings).
The function of this algorithm can bechecked, and its usefulness, connected with that of the underlying framework, maythen be compared with other approaches.In the prototypical case, the topic (theme, "given" information) can be understoodas that part of the sentence structure that is being presented by the speaker as readilyavailable in the hearer's memory, whereas the focus (comment, rheme) is what is beingasserted about the topic.
If negation or another "focalizer" (such as only, even, also)is present, then primarily its scope (or its "focus") is constituted just by the focus ofthe sentence.
Thus, for example, in The king of France is not bald, the subject, which isthe topic of the sentence on its preferred reading, is outside the scope of negation, sothat if the sentence is uttered as referring to the world we live in, it is connected witha presupposition failure: the existence of the king of France is presupposed (entailedeven by the negative sentence).
Our notion of topic appears to have much in commonwith the more recently characterized concept of background or restrictor; on the other* Institute of Formal and Applied Linguistics, Charles University, Malostransk6 n~m.
25, 118 00 Praha 1,Czech Republic.t Institute of Theoretical and Computational Linguistics, Charles University, Celetn~ 13, 110 00 Praha 1,Czech Republic.
(~) 1995 Association for Computational LinguisticsComputational Linguistics Volume 21, Number 1hand, our focus comes close to nuclear scope (see, especially, Partee 1992).
1Rochemontand Culicover (1990) analyze a notion of focus similar to ours, using the framework ofPrinciples and Parameters theory; however, their theory runs into problems in casesin which the focus is not a single constituent (see Koktov~ 1993).The topic-focus articulation (TFA) is both expressed by grammatical means (wordorder, morphemes or their clitic versus "strong" shapes, syntactic onstructions, posi-tion of the sentence stress or "intonation center") and semantically relevant.
Thus, itis impossible to account for the structure of the sentence without describing TFA.In FGD the sentence structure is understood as based on the relation of syntacticdependency and is thus extremely flat.
The syntactic relations in the narrow senseare handled in the form of a dependency tree, with the main verb constituting thelabel of its root and the branches being labeled by symbols denoting the kinds ofcomplementation.
These include, on the one hand, inner participants or arguments,such as Actor, Addressee, Objective, and, on the other hand, free modifications, uchas Locative, Means, Manner, Cause, several temporal and directional modifications,those of Condition, Regard, Accompaniment, etc.
2Before we present our algorithm, let us illustrate the basic notions of our frame-work by a few examples (with uppercase letters denoting a non-final, i.e., markedplacement of the intonation center; in sentences without capitalization, the intonationcenter is supposed to be placed at the end):(1) (a) John talked to few girls about many problems.
(b) John talked about many problems to few girls.
(2) (a) ?John made a canoe out of every log.
(b) John made a CANOE out of every log.
(3) (a) Everybody in this room knows at least two languages.
(b) At least two languages are known by everybody in this room.
(4) (a) They arrived by car at the lake.
(b) They arrived at the lake by car.
(5) (a) She gave several children a few apples.
(b) She gave a few apples to several children.
(6) (a) They moved from Boston to Chicago.
(b) They moved to Chicago from Boston.1 See Rooth (1985), Krifka (1992), and works cited therein, in which similar issues are discussed.
Some ofthe authors concentrate on focalizers and their scopes and/or  foci, whereas we consider a sentencecontaining no focalizer to constitute the prototypical case (it is open to discussion whether in this a"covert focalizer," such as the assertive modal ity of the main verb, is present on some level ofrepresentation).2 Note that we do not discuss the relations of coordination and of apposit ion in this paper.
In FGD, thecorrelates of function words in syntactic representations do not take the form of specific nodes in thetree.
Rather, these correlates take the form of labels on edges (see the syntactic units previouslyillustrated) or of parts of complex labels on nodes (such as values of morphological categories, e.g.Plural, Feminine, Preterite, Conditional, and semantic distinction within the individual syntacticcategories of adverbial modifications, uch as the meanings of the preposit ions in, on, above, under withLocative).82Eva Haji~ova et al Topic-Focus IdentificationThese pairs of sentences, as is known from previous discussions, how that TFA isrelevant not only for a possible placement of the sentence in a context, but also for itssemantic interpretation, even for its truth conditions.
In (1)-(3), the semantic differenceconcerns the distribution of the scopes of quantifiers.
On the preferred reading thequantifier belonging to the topic has a wide scope, which is in agreement with the viewaccording to which the focus is asserted "about" the topic.
For example, a paraphraseof the preferred reading of (3)(a) would be About everybody in this room I tell you that (s)heknows at least wo languages.
In (4)-(6), differences in presuppositions are connected withat least some readings of the sentences.
Thus, (6)(b) presupposes that "they" movedto Chicago (since this phrase belongs to the topic).
This presupposition is absent in(6)(a), in which the to phrase belongs to the focus; the presupposition that "they"moved somewhere from Boston is triggered only by those readings of this sentence inwhich the from phrase belongs to the topic.Thus, as for TFA, in all such cases a characteristic difference may be found.
The (a)sentences are ambiguous in that the penultimate sentence part in some readings (andthus in some dependency-based syntactic representations of these sentences) belongsto the focus and in others to the topic.
In the (b) examples, this ambiguity is absent.The item now placed in the penultimate position (or that following the intonationcenter, which marks the most dynamic item) belongs to the topic in all readings.Different surface means are used to express the differences in TFA in the Englishexamples.
Even in English, there are instances of "free" word order (i.e., of surfaceword order determined irectly by TFA), as in (1), (4), and (6).
In other cases a sec-ondary placement of the intonation center is used, as in (2).
In others, specific syntacticconstructions allow for an appropriate shape of surface word order, such as passiviza-tion in (3) or the prepositional expression of Addressee in (5).The distribution of TFA may be checked by such means as the question test.
Forexample, (1)(a) may be a full answer to a question such as (7).
But this is not the casewith (1)(b).
On the other hand, (1)(b) may be a full answer to (8), in the way that(1)(a), rather than (b), may be a full answer to (9): 3(7) What do you know about John?
(8) To whom does John speak about many problems?
(9) How does John behave towards few girls?Thus, (1)(a) can answer two of questions (7)-(9), whereas (1)(b) can answer justone of them.
This also applies to (2)-(6).
As we have just seen, the (b) sentences, ratherthan their (a) counterparts, are restricted to one of the possible TFAs.
In this sense,the order of the relevant complementations (arguments and free modifications) in the(a) sentences may be understood as primary and that in (b) as secondary.
It is thenpossible to specify a basic, systemic ordering (SO) of the kinds of complementationsof every verb (noun, adjective).After several years of research in this domain, including several series of psy-cholinguistic experiments with Czech and with German sentences ( ee Pfeiffer, Pf~ek,3 What is meant  by "full answer" here is not only that the topic part of the answer is redundant(contained in the question and not deleted in the answer), but also that, when formulating the answer,a speaker does not assume any other "given" or "known" information than that contained in thequestion.
A detailed discussion of the question test and its comparison with other operational criteria(based on a natural response or commentary, often connected with negation) can be found in Sgall,Haji~ov~i, and Panevov~ (1986, Chapter 3).83Computational Linguistics Volume 21, Number 1and Sgall, 1994), as well as investigations with native speakers of English, we hypoth-esize that the SO of some of the main kinds of complementations i  English has thefollowing shape: 4Time - Actor - Addressee - Objective - Origin - Effect - Manner - Directional.
from -Means - Directional.
to - LocativeThe core of our experiments has consisted of checking (with native informants)whether the (a) or (b) sentence in such a pair can answer a question in which neitherof the two relevant complementations is mentioned, or one in which only one ofthem is mentioned.
Thus, for example, (6)(a) is a natural answer to What are Janeand Jim doing?
or to Have you heard about Jane and Jim recently?
On the other hand,(6)(b) occurs much more probably as an answer (however edundant) o From wheredid Jane and Jim move to Chicago?
In this sense the examples above can be understoodas corroborating the cited shape of SO for some of the pairs of complementations:Example (1) illustrates that Addressee precedes Objective, since only (1)(a) is possibleas an answer to (7).
In the same vein, example (2) documents hat Objective precedesOrigin (see Section 2, in which the relevance of the secondary position of the intonationcenter is discussed).
Other examples also have a similar significance: (3) for the pairActor-Objective, (4) for Manner-Directional.
to, (5) again for Addressee-Objective, and(6) for the two Directionals.SO is one of the factors relevant for word order and for the placement of theintonation center.
In the prototypical case (when the intonation center occupies therightmost position and other conditions, discussed in Section 2, are met), SO directlydetermines the underlying word order in the focus part of the sentence.
The followingrule holds:Rule 1If a sentence part A precedes another one, B, under SO, and both A and B are in thefocus of a sentence S, then A precedes B in the word order of S.2.
Communicative Dynamism and Word OrderTo be able to characterize the procedure determining some of the main points of TFAand to illustrate the output language of our parser, we have to add a brief discussionof certain issues concerning word order.The word order of natural anguages i determined not only by SO, but also byother factors.
If an item occurs in the topic, it may be placed more to the left thanwould correspond to SO; the specific order of the elements of the topic is influencedby the speaker's discourse strategy.
There are also grammatical rules, such as thoseconcerning the positions of the verb (e.g., in the "second position" in German), of theadjective or another modifier before or after the head noun in a noun group, and ofclitics.
Cases in which the intonation center has a secondary (non-final) position mustalso be considered.The interplay of word order and these other factors allows for a specification of thescale of communicative dynamism (CD).
This scale is responsible for the "dynamic"progression of parts of the sentence, from topic proper through intermediate parts to4 In German and in most Slavonic languages the situation differs in that Objective and Effect followseveral of the adverbial modifications.84Eva Haji~ov~ et al Topic-Focus Identificationfocus proper as the most dynamic element (carrying the intonation center), s CD issemantically relevant for the scopes of quantifiers, as illustrated by example (10).
(10) (a) It was JOHN who talked to few girls about many problems.
(b) It was JOHN who talked about many problems to few girls.This example differs from (1) in that the two groups containing the relevant quantifiers(few girls and many problems) both are in the topic of the sentence, whereas in (1)(a)and (b), at least one of them belongs to the focus on all readings.
Thus, with (1) itmay be claimed that only the boundary between topic and focus is responsible forthe different distribution of the scopes of quantifiers; however, (10) shows that theindividual degrees in the scale of CD also influence the meaning of the sentence: venif the two quantifiers both are contained in the topic, the one contained in the lessdynamic sentence part has the wide scope on the preferred reading.
6Another point shows the importance of including CD in syntactic representationsof sentences: on the scale of CD, there is always a certain step dividing the sentence (itssyntactic representation) i to the topic and the focus as the less dynamic and the moredynamic parts of the sentence, respectively.
Therefore, in our syntactic representationsof sentences, we work with the scale of CD as with the underlying word order.
Analternative choice would be to mark the scale of CD by specific indexing of the lexicaloccurrences in the sentence.We can now formulate Rule 1, from Section 1, in a more precise form, as rule 1 ~referring to the underlying word order (CD), rather than to the surface one.Rule  1 ~If a sentence part A precedes another one, B, under SO, and both A and B are in thefocus of a sentence S, then A precedes B in the underlying word order of S.It follows from Rule I t that B can be less dynamic than A (i.e., B can precedeA in the underlying word order) in a sentence S only if B belongs to the topic of S.As mentioned above, in the topic part the underlying word order often differs fromSO, which is conditioned mainly by the speaker's discourse strategies.
The speakerchooses the topic proper (the least dynamic element) among the items assumed to bemost salient in the hearer's memory.
Often this is what was referred to by the focusproper of the preceding utterance.
7Now we can see why the (b) examples in Section 1 lack the ambiguity present inthe (a) sentences.
For example, in (1)(a) the underlying (and surface) order of the two5 Like many  other linguistic notions, that of the intonation center is far from clean Since it is not possibleto discuss this issue in depth here (which has been the objective of a rich discussion), we can onlycharacterize our standpoint as follows: (a) in a sentence having more than one sentence stress, weunderstand the last (rightmost) one as the intonation center, and (b) we assume that the prototypical(unmarked) position of the intonation center is (in English) at the last word of the sentence.
We areaware that these formulations do not cover all the possible cases, but the more or less marginalexceptions must  be left aside for the aim of the present paper.6 We cannot discuss here the issues concerning other possible interpretations of sentences such as (1) and(10).
Their acceptability often depends on the lexical setting of the sentence and on pragmatic factors.This also concerns the cases of "group reading" (e.g., in The three men built those two houses) or ofJ.
Hintikka's "branching quantifiers.
"7 More precisely, the topic proper refers to one of those items that, at the given time point, are mostsalient in the stock of knowledge shared by the speaker and (according to the speaker's assumption)by the hearer.
The set of highly salient items (called "established" in our earlier writings) can becompared to the "focus list" of Grosz (1977).85Computational Linguistics Volume 21, Number 1rightmost complementations (tofew girls and about many problems, i.e., Addressee andObjective) is in accordance with SO, but in (1)(b) this is not so: the Objective, whichwas most dynamic (rightmost in underlying word order) in (a) does not occupy thisposition in (b).
This means that it is included in the topic of sentence (b) on all itsreadings (i.e., in all syntactic representations of the sentence).
This is similar withexamples (3)-(6), and with (2) the switch of the intonation center plays the same roleas the switch of word order in the other examples.On the other hand, the ambiguity of the (a) sentences i determined by the fact thatthe scale of CD is in accordance with SO here and that one of the complementationsthus belongs to the topic in some of the readings and to the focus in others.
Forexample, in (1)(a) the group to few girls is in such an ambiguous position: in some ofthe readings, the boundary between topic and focus precedes this group; in others, theboundary follows it.
In both (a) and (b), the most dynamic complementation belongsto the focus on all the readings.The dichotomy of topic and focus concerns the sentence as a whole.
In sentenceswith items embedded more deeply than the immediate complementations of the mainverb, it is necessary to characterize the positions of individual word occurrences inthe sentence in a more specific way.
We therefore work with the distinction of con-textually bound (CB) and non-bound (NB) lexical occurrences.
Operational criteria todistinguish between these two values again may be found in the question test and insimilar procedures.
For example, only CB items can have the shape of weak pronounsor be deleted (thus, in He LEFT the subject is CB, whereas in HE left it is NB).A CB item is always considered to be less dynamic than its head and than its NBsister nodes (i.e., nodes depending on the same head).
Thus, in He left YESTERDAY,the subject is CB and thus less dynamic than its head, the verb, and also than its NBsister, the adverb.
This implies that the main verb is always more dynamic than all itsCB complementations and less dynamic than the NB ones; i.e., in the scale of CD theverb stands immediately after or before the boundary between topic and focus.To illustrate the notion of contextual boundness, we present wo additional exam-ples: 8(11) (How do you find your neighborhood?)
Our(CB) new(NB)neighbor(CB) has stolen(NB) my(CB) CAR(NB).
(12) (Which teacher do you mean?)
I(CB) mean(CB) our(CB) teacher(CB) ofCHEMISTRY(NB).These sentences can also be used to exemplify how, on the basis of the dichotomyof CB and NB items, the notions of topic and focus can be defined more exactly (fora more explicit formulation, see Sgall et al 1986, Chapter 3):(i) The main verb and its immediate complementations belong to the topic if theyare CB and to the focus if they are NB.
(ii) More deeply embedded items belong to the topic (focus) if their head words(in the framework of dependency syntax) belong there.8 In our syntactic representations wedo not handle the correlates of function words as (labels of)separate nodes; they have the shape of indices accompanying auto-semantic lexical units (seefootnote 2).
This appears to be more adequate, since both their semantic and syntactic properties differsubstantially from auto-semantic words.
Furthermore, it is not economical to enlarge the number ofnodes beyond necessity, adding special nodes for prepositions or articles, which can accompany onlytheir nouns, or for conjunctions and auxiliary verbs, which can accompany only lexical verbs andwhich do not accept any (other) arguments or modifications of their own.86Eva Haji~ova et al Topic-Focus Identification(iii) If the verb and all its immediate complementations (in other words, all el-ements of the center of the sentence) are CB, then only the NB item(s) embeddedunder the most dynamic element of the center constitutes the focus, with the rest ofthe sentence belonging to its topic.In (11) the noun neighbor, being CB (as a definite subject noun usually is), belongsto the topic, according to (i), and so does new as its modifier, according to (ii), althoughit is NB.
The verb and the noun car both belong to the focus, according to (i), and sodoes her, according to (ii).In (12) all of the CB words belong to the topic according to (i) or (with our) 9 to(ii); then (iii) determines the adjunct of chemistry as the focus of (12).The (underlying) syntactic representations of sentences in our framework can nowbe illustrated (with several simplifications) in the form of linearized ependency trees.With this notation, every dependent i em is included in its pair of parentheses, labeledby the corresponding syntactic symbol.
This symbol occurs as the label of the edge inthe tree, or as a subscript following a parenthesis n the linearized representation: 1?
(13) A neighbor gave a boy a book.
(13') (neighbor.Indef)Act give.Pret (boy.Indef)Addr (book.Indef)obj(14) A painter arrived at a French village on a nice September day.
(14') (painter.Indef)Act (village.Indef (FrenCh)Gener)Dir arrive.Pret (day.Indef(September)Gener  (nice)Gener)Time(15) The neighbor met him yesterday.
(15') (neighbor)Act (he)obj meet.Pret t (yesterday)TimeMost of our symbols (for Indefinite, Preterite, Actor, Addressee, Objective, Di-rectional) should be self-explanatory; Gener(al Relationship) is the free modificationtypical for an adjectival modifier of a noun.
In (15t), the superscript t denotes theverb as belonging to the topic (being CB), although this is not in an immediate cor-respondence with its position in the surface word order.
In English, the word orderis grammatically restricted; thus also in (14) the verb occupies the position after thesubject, in the surface, although it is followed by a CB item.
Typically, the position ofthe verb in TFA (and often also the position of a complementation) is ambiguous, andin the present examples we give only one of the possible readings of the sentence.
Theunmarked case, when the verb belongs to the focus, is left without a specific notationmark here.
The TFA positions of the complementations are indicated by their positionsin the underlying word order, i.e., in CD: those belonging to the focus stand to theright of the head verb, and those in the topic stand to the left of it.Let us note that, for example, the written shape of (14) may also be pronouncedwith a secondary placement of the intonation center, as in (16), with another TFA.
Thispronunciation is not probable, but it is possible, as after such a co-text as (17):9 The contextual boundness of this pronoun in the given position is derived from its indexical characterand its associative link with the speaker.
For this reason, such an item can always be referred to as"established," or "recoverable," or "identifiable" in the terminology of Halliday (1967) or Chafe (1976).10 A detailed iscussion of dependency trees and the labels of their edges (the syntactic values, i.e., kindsof arguments and modifications) and of their nodes (the values of morphological categories) waspresented by Sgall, Haji~ov~, and Panevov~ (1986, Chapter 2).
In the notation presented here, themorphological categories are handled so that only their marked values are indicated.
Unmarked(prototypical) values such as Singular, Present, and Definite are assumed "by default.
"87Computational Linguistics Volume 21, Number 1(16)(16')(17)A painter arrived at a French VILLAGE on a nice September day.
(painter.Indef)Act (day (September)cener(nice)Gener)Time arrive.Pret (village.Indef (FrenCh)Gener)DirIn the autumn, painters often look for nice sceneries in most differentenvironments.Similarly, with (15) there is a less probable pronunciation (possible only in specificcontexts) with the pronoun HIM stressed.
Many, though not all, such marked casesare accounted for by the parser described in Section 3.
The output language of thisparser has been illustrated by examples (13')-(16').Sections 1 and 2 have introduced our treatment of topic and focus.
As such, thecomments and the examples could not cover all the possible sentence structures.
Theinterested reader can find a more general and precise characterization of the basicnotions we work with in Sgall et al (1986), Haji~ov~ and Sgall (1987), and Petkevi~ (inpreparation).
The main objective of the paper is to present a procedure specifying theTFA of a sentence.
However, at this stage, not all combinations ofmarginal phenomenaare covered by our algorithm.3.
A Procedure for the Identification of TFAAn automatic identification of topic, focus, and degrees of communicative dynamism,discussed in a preliminary way by Haji~ov~ and Sgall (1985), can be based on thefollowing considerations: uLanguages with a high degree of "free" word order (such as most Slavonic ones)differ from English or French in that a secondary position of the intonation centeris frequent here only in spoken discourse.
12On the other hand, in technical texts(which typically are written), there is a strong tendency to arrange the words so thatthe intonation center falls on the last word of the sentence (where it need not bephonetically manifested), with the exception of course, of enclitic words.
This usage,occasionally recommended by manuals and textbooks concerning, for example, thestylistics of Czech or Russian, makes it possible to read such a text aloud withoutpaying much attention to the choice of the placement of the intonation center.A general procedure for determining TFA in such languages can then be based onthe following points:(i) All complementations preceding the verb are CB and thus belong to the topic.As for the complementations following the verb, Rule 2 may be stated:Rule 2The boundary between topic (to the left) and focus (to the right) can be drawn betweenany two elements following the verb, provided that those belonging to the focus arearranged in the surface word order in accordance with SO (see Section 1).11 As usual in computational linguistics, it is impossible to handle all marginal and exceptional cases by arelatively simple, general procedure.
Natural anguage processing always requires olutions coveringfirst the typical (or most frequent) cases and only then more cemplex procedures accounting forperipheral phenomena.
Thus, the present paper also does not aim at a complete solution that wouldhandle all possible cases appropriately.12 Note that one can specify the position of the intonation center even with a written sentence: thesentence can be read aloud either correctly (in accordance with the author's intention) or incorrectly.The fact that there are also cases in which different placements of the intonation center are suitable forthe given context is not immediately relevant.88Eva Haji~owi et al Topic-Focus Identification(ii) The verb is ambiguous as to its position in the topic or in the focus.
(iii) If a spoken utterance (with its intonation center identified) is analyzed, then(i) and (ii) hold for sentences with normal intonation (intonation center at the end).However, if a non-final element carries the intonation center, then all the complemen-tations tanding after this element belong to the topic; for the rest of the sentence, (i)and (ii) hold; the bearer of the intonation center belongs to the focus.In English the surface word order is determined by grammatical rules to a largeextent, so that intonation plays a more decisive role than in the Slavonic languages.The written shape of the sentence does not suffice here to determine TFA to such adegree as it does in Czech, for example.
Rule 2 also applies, but otherwise only certainimportant regularities can be stated here on the basis of word order and grammaticalvalues (especially a definite noun group is often CB, and an indefinite one regularly isNB).
To be able to reduce the ambiguity of the written shape of the sentence as muchas possible, it is necessary to take into account certain semantic lues.Especially with Locative and Temporal modifications, it is important to distinguishbetween specific information (e.g., on a nice September day, on October 22, 1991, sevenmonths ago) and items containing just a general setting (e.g., always) or being directlydetermined by the utterance itself, such as indexicals, like today and this year.
The latterexamples usually belong to the topic, whereas the former ones typically occur in thefocus.As for the verb, it is important to have access to the verb of the preceding utteranceand to use a systematic semantic classification of the verbs.
If the main verb of sentencen has the same meaning as (or a meaning included in) that of sentence n - 1 (in thesense of hyponymy), then it belongs to the topic.
Also, verbs with very general lexicalmeanings (such as be, have, happen, carry out, and become) may be handled as belongingto the topic.
Otherwise (i.e., in the unmarked case), the verb typically belongs to thefocus (in which case no subscript is being used in our representations).An algorithmic procedure has been formulated by H. Skoumalov~, completing theparsing of a written English sentence so as to identify its TFA.
In the output of thisprocedure, many ambiguities remain, but sentences (even in their spoken shape) oftenare ambiguous as to their TFA.
Thus it should be understood as a good result if theprocedure identifies uch an ambiguity.
In its present form, however, the algorithmhas several limitations.
It can process only simple sentences.
It determines the appur-tenance of an element to topic or to focus, but does not specify CD within topic.
Italso handles just the verb and its complementations; deeper embedded elements areleft aside for the time being.The algorithm has been formulated as follows:(a) After the dependency structure of the sentence has been identified by theparser, so that also the underlying dependency relations (valency positions) ofthe complementations (to the governing verb) are known, the verb and all thecomplementations are first assumed to be NB, i.e., to belong to the focus,which we denote by f.(b) If the verb occupies the rightmost position in the sentence and its subject is(ba) definite (including noun groups with this, with oneofthe, etc.
), then the verb isNB, i.e., f, and its subject is CB, belonging to the topic, which we denote as t;(bb) indefinite, then the subject is f and the verb is t. In either case, the othercomplementations are handled according to (cb) below.89Computational Linguistics Volume 21, Number 1(c) If the verb does not occupy the rightmost position, then:(ca) the verb itself is understood as t, if it has a very general lexical meaning (seeabove), or as f if its meaning is very specific, or else as ambiguous (t/f);(cb) the complementations preceding the verb are denoted as t, with the exceptionof an indefinite subject and of a specific (i.e., neither general nor indexical; seeabove) Temporal complementation; either of the latter two is characterized ast/f;(cc) to the right of the verb,(i) if there is a single complementation, and this is a definite noun group or apersonal pronoun, it is t/f;(ii) if the rightmost complementation is Temp or Loc, and it is specific, it is f;otherwise it is t (i.e., is understood as standing to the left of the verb in theunderlying word order and is shifted there);(iii) if A is the left item of the rightmost pair that now (after the possible changeof word order carried out according to (ii) above) fails to follow SO (seeSection i and Rule 2), then A belongs to the topic (t), and so do all thecomplementations between A and the verb; the rightmost complementation ofthe whole sentence is f (only a personal pronoun following another one(including those of the third person) is t / f  in this position), all those standingbetween A and the rightmost one are t/f;(iv) if neither (ii) nor (iii) is met and the rightmost complementation is indefinite,it is f;(v) all remaining complementations to the right of the verb are t/f .
(d) If all the complementations have been determined as t or t/f ,  then(da) if the verb was t / f  after point (ca) and the rightmost complementation is adefinite noun group, an indexical word, or pronoun, then this rightmostelement gets t(f), which denotes a specific kind of ambiguity: this element isto be understood as having f only in case there is no other f in the reading ofthe sentence;(db) if (da) does not apply, then both the rightmost element of the sentence and itsverb get t/f .
(e) The remaining representations containing no f are deleted.
13We are aware that our procedure does not cover all possibilities occurring inEnglish sentences.
Deeper embedded elements have not yet been properly analyzed,and different pronominal forms should be classified in a much more detailed way.Other cases, assumed to occur with low probability (such as, for example, The neighborGAVE the boy a book, or The neighbor gave HIM the book), are not taken into account.13 We assume that at least one reading of the sentence has been assigned an f (NB element) by now.
Thereadings without a focus are not valid representations of sentences, ince one of the basic assumptionsis that every sentence contains a focus.90Eva Haji~ov~i et al Topic-Focus Identif icationWhen implemented (together with a simplified parser), 14 the algorithm was checkedwith a set of sentences having our examples (1)-(3) as its core, and it yielded the ex-pected results, as presented in Section 4.4.
ExamplesLet us first reproduce here examples (13)-(15) from Section 2 (with a changed num-bering), accompanied by the corresponding input strings of our program, in whichthe occurring word forms are complemented already by the lexical data.
The programpresupposes that each word form occurring in the text has undergone lexical (andmorphemic) analysis o that it has been assigned the relevant data found in the lexi-con.
These include word class and sem(antic features) such as hum(an).
The verbs areaccompanied by their valency frames (grids), which also include data on the surfaceshape of the individual kinds of complementations so that it is easy to reconstruct theoriginal sentence at the end of the procedure: 15(1) A ne ighbor  gave  a boy  a book .
(1") verb(topic(f),touch(0),sem(interm),label(gave),Itree(act(topic(f),touch(0),def(0),so(01),surf(np),label(neighbor),itree(det(a)))),rtree(addr(topic(f),touch(0),def(0),so(012),surf(np),label(boy),Itree(det(a))),obj(topic(f),touch(0),def(0),so(0123),surf(np),label(book),itree(det(a)))))(2) A painter arrived at a French village on a nice September da~(2") verb(topic(f),touch(0),sem(interm),label(arrived),itree(act(topic(f),touch(0),def(0),so(01),surf(np),label(painter),itree(det(a)))),rtree(loc(topic(f),touch(0),def(0),sem(gen),so(012345678),surf(np),label(village),itree(prep(at),det(a),generic(french))),temp(topic(f),touch(0),def(0),sem(gen),so(0),surf(np),label(day),itree(prep(on),det(a),generic(nice),generic(september)))))(3) The neighbor met him yesterda~(3") verb(topic(f),touch(0),sem(interm),label(met),itree(act(topic(f),touch(0),def(1),so(01),surf(np),label(neighbor),itree(det(the))),tree(obj(topic(f),touch(0),def(1),so(0123),surf(ppers),label(him),itree),temp(topic(f),14 It is not an objective of this paper to present a parser of English.
The parser that has been used as abasis of our procedure is founded on dependency syntax and covers just the simple shapes of Englishsentences.
Its lexical scope can be enlarged easily, if the added lexical items are accompanied byappropriate grammatical data, especially by valency (case) frames specifying the optional andobligatory arguments (Actor, Addressee, Objective, Origin, and Effect, with verbs).
Prepositions arebeing analyzed just in one or two meanings each.15 The notation differs slightly here from that of Section 2; the complex symbols are reflected here bysubtrees in which the nodes for function words are still present.
The symbol topic denotes here whetherthe given item belongs to the topic or to the focus, touch stores the information if the complementationhas been already determined, sem is the semantic information about the verb (general, specific,intermediate), and Itree and rtree are the left and right subtrees in the dependency tree.
The word formis saved under label, so contains information about the position of the complementation in systemicordering, and surf is the surface form (noun group, personal pronoun, indexical word, etc.).
The othersymbols are self-explanatory.91Computational Linguistics Volume 21, Number 1touch(O),def(1),sem(gen),so(O),surf(index),label(yesterday),ltree)))The output of the procedure characterized in Section 3 is as follows:(1.
)(2*)(3*)a neighbor(t/f) gave(t/f) a boy(t/f) a book(f)a painter(t/f) arrived(t/f) at a french village(t) on a niceseptember day(f)the neighbor(t) met(t/f) him(t/f) yesterday(t(f))To illustrate how our procedure works for the sentences differing from (1)-(3) inthe values of delimiting features (definite-indefinite), in word order, and so on, we adda list of these sentences with simplified, perspicuous results of the procedure, i.e., withthe values t and f produced by our algorithm added to the autonomous (autosemantic)lexical occurrences.
Ambiguity is denoted here in an abbreviated way, so that "t / f"means "t in some readings and f in others" (in combination with the values of otherwords in the sentence), and "t(f)" means "obtaining f only in case there is no otherf in the sentence."
In this way it is easy to check whether the decision points in thealgorithm, which are illustrated by the examples, have been handled adequately.
(1)(A) a neighbor(t/f) gave(t/f)(B) a neighbor(t/f) gave(t/f)(C) a neighbor(t/f) gave(t/f)(D) a neighbor(t/f) gave(t/f)(E) the neighbor(t) gave(t/f)(F) the neighbor(t) gave(t/f)(G) the neighbor(t) gave(t/f)(H) the neighbor(t) gave(t/f)(I) a neighbor(t/f) gave(t/f)(J) a neighbor(t/f) gave(t/f)(K) the neighbor(t) gave(t/f)(L) the neighbor(t) gave(t/f)(M) a neighbor(t/f) gave(t/f)(N) a neighbor(t/f) gave(t/f)(0) a neighbor(t/f) gave(t/f)(P) a neighbor(t/f) gave(t/f)(Q) the neighbor(t) gave(t/f)(R) the neighbor(t) gave(t/f)(S) the neighbor(t) gave(t/f)(T) the neighbor(t) gave(t/f)(U) a neighbor(t/f) gave(t/f)(V) the neighbor(t) gave(t/f)(2)(A)(B)(C)(D)a boy(t/f) a book(f)a boy(t/f) the book(t/f)the boy(t/f) a book(f)the boy(t/f) the book(t/f)a boy(t/f) a book(f)a boy(t/f) the book(t/f)the boy(t/f) a book(f)the boy(t/f) the book(t/f)him(t/f) a book(f)him(t/f) the book(t/f)him(t/f) a book(f)him(t/f) the book(t/f)a book(t) to a boy(f)the book(t) to a boy(f)a book(t) to the boy(f)the book(t) to the boy(f)a book(t) to a boy(f)the book(t) to a boy(f)a book(t) to the boy(f)the book(t) to the boy(f)it(t) to him(t/f)it(t) to him(t/f)a painter(t/f) arrived(t/f) at a french village(t) on anice september day(f)a painter(t/f) arrived(t/f) at a french village(t/f)yesterday(t(f))a painter(t/f) arrived(t/f) at the french village(t) ona nice september day(f)a painter(t/f) arrived(t/f) at the french village(t/f)yesterday(t(f))92Eva Haji~ov~i etal.
Topic-Focus Identification(E)(F)(a)(H)(I)(J)(K)(3)(A)(B)(C)(O)(E)(F)(G)(H)(I)the painter(t) arrived(t/f) at a french village(t) on anice september day(f)the painter(t) arrived(t/f) at a french village(t/f)yesterday(t(f))the painter(t) arrived(t/f) at the french village(t) ona nice september day(f)the painter(t) arrived(t/f) at the french village(t/f)yesterday(t(f))a painter(t/f) arrived(t/f) there(t) on a niceseptember day(f)a painter(t/f) arrived(t/f) there(t/f) yesterday(t(f))yesterday(t) a painter(t/f) arrived(t/f) there(t(f))a neighbor(t/f)day(f)a neighbor(t/f)a neighbor(t/f)day(f)a neighbor(t/f)the neighbor(t)day(f)the neighbor(t)the neighbor(t)day(f)the neighbor(t)the neighbor(t)met(t/f) a boy(t) on a nice septembermet(t/f) a boy(t/f) yesterday(t(f))met(t/f) the boy(t) on a nice septembermet(t/f) the boy(t/f) yesterday(t(f))met(t/f) a boy(t) on a nice septembermet(t/f) a boy(t/f) yesterday(t(f))met(t/f) the boy(t) on a nice septembermet(t/f) the boy(t/f) yesterday(t(f))met(t/f) him(t/f) yesterday(t(f))We assume that the sentences are pronounced so that the intonation center iscarried by the rightmost sentence part bearing an index f. Thus, for instance, (3)(H)corresponds to the following sentences:(3) (H1) The neighbor MET the boy yesterday.
(H2) The neighbor met the BOY yesterday.
(H3) The neighbor met the boy YESTERDAY.5.
Conc lus ionAs we have mentioned in Section 3, our algorithm does not cover all cases of TFAoccurring in English sentences.
For the present stage of research, it has been possible toaccount only for the primary shape of sentence structure (the verb with its argumentsand free modifications) and for the prototypical cases of TFA.Future research in the domain of automatic processing of TFA thus may con-centrate on solving further problems connected with secondary cases.
Above all, thisconcerns the following points in which a more general procedure could be formulated:(i) The procedure should also take into account deeper embedded sentence parts(embedded verb clauses, modifiers in noun groups, etc.).
Criteria to decide on thesesentence parts being CB or NB will make it necessary to work with a detailed semanticclassification of lexical items and to take into account the analysis of preceding co-text.
(ii) Such "focus-sensitive adverbs" or "focalizers" as only, also, even, mostly, nega-tion, etc.
(see Section I and footnote 1)should be considered, since their foci may differ93Computational Linguistics Volume 21, Number 1from the focus of the sentence as a whole (although in the prototypical case such adifference does not occur).
(iii) If a semantic omparison of lexical items with those present in the precedingutterances of the discourse is made possible (see point (i)), then the cases of ambiguityresulting from the procedure could be considerably reduced.
In any case, for practicalapplications it will be necessary to work with preferences, excluding the least probablereadings.
(iv) One of the most promising prospects is to join a procedure of the kind de-scribed in the present paper with an acoustic analysis of spoken discourse, in whichthe position of the intonation center could be determined as one of the importantfactors.We hope, however, that the procedure outlined in the present paper can serveas one of the starting points both for a comparison of the views on TFA based ondependency and on other syntactic theories and for achieving a relatively completealgorithmic analysis of TFA as that dimension of the sentence structure which permitsa characterization f the sentence in its fundamental interactive nature.ReferencesChafe, Wallace L. (1976).
"Givenness,contrastiveness, definiteness, ubjects,topics and point of view."
In Subject andTopic, edited by Charles N. Li.
25-55.
NewYork: Academic Press.Grosz, Barbara J.
(1977).
"The representationand use of focus in dialogueunderstanding."
Technical Report 151, SRIInternational.
Doctoral dissertation,University of California at Berkeley.Haji~ov~i, Eva, and Sgall, Petr (1985).
"Towards an automatic identification oftopic and focus."
In Proceedings, SecondConference ofthe European Chapter of theAssociation for Computational Linguistics,Geneva.
263-267.Haji~ov~, Eva, and Sgall, Petr (1987).
"Theordering principle."
Journal of Pragmatics11:435-454.Halliday, Michael A. K. (1967).
"Notes ontransitivity and theme in English."
Journalof Linguistics 3:37-81, 199-244; 4:179-215.Koktova, Eva (1993).
Review of Rochemontand Culicover (1990).
Prague Bulletin ofMathematical Linguistics, 58:88-93.Krifka, Manfred (1992).
"Focus andquantification."
In SALT II, Proceedings,Second Conference on Semantics andLinguistic Theory, edited by C. Barker andD.
Dowty.
Columbus: Ohio StateUniversity.Partee, Barbara (1992).
"Quantificationalstructures and compositionality.
"Presented at the Third HungarianSymposium on Logic and Language.
Tobe published by Kluwer, Dordrecht in theProceedings, edited by L. K~lm~r.PetkeviG Vladimlr (1987).
"A newdependency based specification ofunderlying representations of sentences.
"Theoretical Linguistics 14:143-172.PetkeviG Vladimir (in prep.).
An ExtendedDependency-Based Specification fUnderlyingRepresentations of Sentences.
To bepublished by Charles University, Prague.Pfeiffer, Oskar; P6eek, Michael; and Sgall,Petr (1994).
"DieThema-Rhema-Gliederung im Deutschenund ihre automatische Analyse."
InComputatio linguae, 2, Zeitschrift iirDialektologie und Linguistik, Beihefte, 83,edited by U. Klenk, 148-164.Rochemont, Michael S., and Culicover,Peter W. (1990).
English Focus Constructionsand the Theory of Grammar.
Cambridge:Cambridge University Press.Rooth, Mats (1985).
"Association withfocus."
Doctoral dissertation, Universityof Massachusetts, Amherst.Sgall, Petr (1987).
"The position of Czechlinguistics in theme-focus research."
InLanguage Topics.
Essays in Honour of MichaelHalliday, Vol.
I, edited by Ross Steele andTerry Threadgold, 47-55.
Amsterdam:John Benjamins.Sgall, Petr; Hajieov~i, Eva; and Panevov~,Jarmila (1986).
The Meaning of the Sentencein Its Semantic and Pragmatic Aspects, editedby Jacob L. Mey.
Prague: Reidel,Dordrecht and Academia.94
