Expressing Rhetorical Relationsin Instructional Text:A Case Study of the Purpose RelationKeith Vander  L inden*ITRI, University of BrightonJames  H. Mart in  tUniversity of ColoradoNatural language provides an extensive set of lexical and grammatical forms for expressingconcepts, a set from which writers choose the particular form that they feel will produce the mosteffective xpression given the communicative context.
An important ask of the text generationresearcher is to specify both the range of these forms and the contexts in which they are used.
Thispaper addresses this issue in the context of the expression of procedural relations between actionsin instructional text.
It employs the following four-step approach to achieve this goal: (1) collect acorpus of the relevant text type; (2) perform adetailed linguistic study of a portion of this corpus,called the training set, and reserve the remainder as a testing set; (3) implement the results ofthis study in a text generation system; and (4) compare the output of the system with the textfound in the entire corpus.
This has resulted in the construction of IMAGENE, an instructionaltext generation system that embodies a model of the forms of expression consistently used byinstructional text writers over a broad range of instruction types.
The details of IMAGENE'Streatment of purpose xpressions are given as representative of the coverage and form of the fullsystem.1.
IntroductionNatural language provides an extensive set of lexical and grammatical forms for ex-pressing concepts, many of which may, taken out of context, appear to be interchange-able.
They are not interchangeable.
Writers systematically choose the particular formfrom this set that they feel will produce the most effective xpression given the com-municative context.
An important ask of the text generation researcher is to informthe text generation process with a specification of both the range of these forms andthe contexts in which they are used.The current study addresses this issue in the context of expressing proceduralrelations between actions in instructional text, that is, in written, procedural directions.The complexity of procedural relations typically expressed in such text has given riseto complex variations of expression in language.
Consider, for example, the problemof expressing purpose relations.
Such expressions could take many conceivable forms,all of which are perfectly grammatical:(la) Pull out sharply in order to remove the phone.
(lb) To remove phone, pull out sharply.
* Information Technology Research Institute, University of Brighton, Lewes Road, Brighton BN2 4AT,UK.
E-mail: knvl@itri.bton.ac.ukt Department of Computer Science, University of Colorado, Boulder, CO 80309-0430, USA.
E-mail:martin@cs.colorado.edu(~) 1995 Association for Computational LinguisticsComputational Linguistics Volume 21, Number 1(lc) Pull out sharply for phone removal.
(ld) Pull out sharply for removing the phone.
(le) For the phone, pull out sharply.
(lf) Remove phone by pulling out sharply.
(lg) Remove the phone.
Pull out sharply.
(lh) The purpose of pulling out sharply is to remove the phone.
(li) Pulling out sharply achieves the purpose of removing the phone.
(l j) Removing the phone involves pulling out sharply.
(lk) The method for removing the phone is to pull out sharply.As can be seen, purpose expressions occur either before or after the expression oftheir related sub-actions (referred to here as the issue of slot) and are expressed in anumber of grammatical forms (the issue of form).
They may be linked with a variety ofconjunctions or prepositions (the issue of linker) and may or may not be combined intoa single sentence with the expression of their sub-actions (the issue of clause combining).The current study addresses these four issues of choice in the context of instructionaltext.Text generation systems must know which forms to produce and when to producethem.
Formal linguistic analyses are useful for weeding out grammatically unaccept-able forms, but they do not provide a principled means of determining which of thegrammatically acceptable forms should be used in any given communicative context.As an alternative, the current study has employed the following four-step rocess foridentifying both the relevant forms of expression and the contexts in which they areused:...4.Collect a corpus of text from the relevant genre and encode a full rangeof the lexical and grammatical features of all of the text.Perform a linguistic analysis of part of the corpus.
This analysis involvesdetermining the range of forms used in the corpus and then using aniterative cycle of hypothesis formation and testing to determine thecommunicative contexts in which each is used.Implement the results of this analysis in the text generation system.Compare, in detail, the output of the system with the text found in thecorpus, differentiating between the predictions concerning text that wasspecifically used in the analysis (the training set) and text that was not(the testing set).This process begins and ends with the corpus, providing an empirically basedapproach to identifying the range of lexical and grammatical forms that are used inreal text and to determining the contextual issues that are relevant o choosing amongthem.
Although the corpus study has become a common methodology in naturallanguage generation, seldom are the representation a d analysis techniques given inany detail, and detailed evaluations of the resulting text are not provided.
These detailsare provided, for our study, in this paper.Our corpus is divided into training and testing portions.
The training portion, usedin step 2, constitutes approximately one-third of the full corpus and consists entirely of30Keith Vander Linden and James H. Martin Expressing Rhetorical Relationscordless telephone manuals.
The methodology is successfully applied to this portion,showing that there are, in fact, patterns of expression i  cordless telephone manualsthat can be identified and implemented.
The study is then extended by testing thesystem's predictions on a separate and more diverse portion of the corpus that includesinstructions for different types of devices and processes.
This additional testing servesboth to disallow over-fitting of the data in the training portion and to give a measureof how far beyond the telephone domain the predictions can legitimately be applied.No testing was done on noninstructional texts, and no claims are made concerningthe applicability of the system's predictions in those areas.Following a review of relevant work in the area of natural anguage generation,this paper will discuss how these four steps have been applied to the generationof rhetorical relations in instructional text.
It will detail what rhetorical relations ininstructional text are and how they were collected and represented.
It will then discusshow the corpus analysis was performed and how the results were implemented inIMAGENE, an instructional text generation system.
The details of IMAGENE'S treatmentof purpose xpressions are given as representative of the coverage and form of the fullsystem (more details concerning the other relations can be found elsewhere \[VanderLinden 1993c\]).
It will conclude with a discussion of how well IMAGENE'S predictionsmatch the text in the training and the testing portions of the corpus.2.
Related Work in Natural Language GenerationIn pursuit of other issues, many studies have adopted a temporary solution to theproblem of managing diverse forms of expression, amely, that of choosing a singlelexical and grammatical form to express each of the relevant types of information dealtwith by the system.
It is then a simple matter of allowing the type of information todetermine the appropriate xpressional form.
Hovy's text structurer (Hovy 1988b),for example, uses rhetorical relations as defined in Rhetorical Structure Theory (RST)(Mann and Thompson 1987) to order a set of propositions to be expressed.
It does notmake any decision as to how a chosen relation is to be expressed, but rather leavesthis task to the rudimentary implementation f the rhetorical relations provided by thePenman text generation system (Mann 1985).
In the case of a purpose, for example,Penman will produce a non-fronted in order to infinitive clause, as in the followingoutput of the structurer (Hovy 1988b, p. 167): "Knox is en route in order to rendezvouswith CTG 070.10."
A similar approach to expressing rhetorical relations was taken inMcKeown's TEXT system (McKeown 1985).Text generators specifically designed for instructional text, such as Mellish andEvans' generator (Mellish and Evans 1989), EPICURE (Dale 1992), COMET (McKeownet al 1990), and TECHDOC (R6sner and Stede 1992b), display similar characteristics.
(See the analytical work of Delin, Scott, and Hartley \[1993\] for a notable xception tothis pattern.
)Mellish and Evans' generator, for example, uses the output of NONLIN, a non-linear planner (Tate 1976), as the preliminary rhetorical structure for the text.
Becausethis often produced text that was monotonous or hard to understand, they includedwhat was termed a message optimization phase that specifies rules for removing ormodifying certain elements of the plan structure that are known to produce poor text.Although this greatly improves the text, it still tends toward text that is difficult toread.
This problem is, in part, due to the fact that some of the plans they look at arequite complex and correspondingly difficult to express, but it is also attributable tothe lack of a detailed corpus study of the linguistic tools used by technical writersin instructional text.
The IMAGENE project can be seen as an extension of their work31Computational Linguistics Volume 21, Number 1that employs uch a study to help manage diversity of forms of expression.
There areother natural language generation projects that have addressed similar issues.
Twosuch examples are Hovy's Pauline (Hovy 1988a) and Meteer's Spokesman (Meteer1991, 1992), both of which are based, at least in part, on corpus studies.Pauline produces an impressive range of expressional forms that are based on alist of pragmatic features of the communicative environment, including informationabout the conversational tmosphere, the speaker, the hearer, the relationship betweenthe two, and the interpersonal communicative goals of the speaker.
Its constructionrequired a considerable amount of analysis of sample texts, but unfortunately, verylittle is said about how this analysis was actually performed and how well the textproduced by Pauline matches the text in the corpus.
The concerns of the IMAGENEproject are similar, except hat both the text type (instructional text) and the linguisticphenomenon (expressing rhetorical relations) are much more focused.
The results ofour study are therefore more detailed, but also more constrained (see the conceptof domain communication knowledge, as described by Kittredge, Korelsky, and Rambow\[1991\]).In the Spokesman project, Meteer proposed an architecture for addressing what shetermed the problem of expressibility in text planning (Meteer 1992).
Her fundamentalthesis is that an abstract linguistic representation is needed to provide the text plannerwith information on constraints of expression (see Vaughan, and McDonald 1987).Her constraints are taken, at least in part, from a study of text revisions made byexpert editors.
The IMAGENE project concurs with this concern for detailed forms ofexpression, but its methodology is geared toward determining the elements of thecommunicative context used to choose between equally acceptable alternative formsof expression.
Meteer does not address what to do if, after using her constraints toremove unacceptable forms of expression, there are a number of remaining acceptableforms.
This issue of choice is central to the current study.3.
Corpus Collection and RepresentationThe corpus developed for this study was taken from various types of instructionaltext, including instruction booklets, recipes, and auto-repair manuals.
It contains ap-proximately 1000 clauses (6000 words) of instructions, taken from 17 different sourcesrepresenting a diverse array of process types.
These sources include instructions forelectronic devices like cordless telephones and clock radios, manipulative processeslike auto repair and first aid, and creative processes like cooking and craft making.The one common feature is that they all involve the expression of actions and of theprocedural relations between them.
1 As an example of the nature of this text, considerthe following excerpt from the instructions for the GTE Airfone (Airfone 1991), whichwill be called the Remove-Phone t xt:(2) When instructed (approx.
10 sec.)
remove phone by firmly grasping topof handset and pulling out.
Return to seat to place calls.
(Airfone 1991) 21 It should be noted that this corpus is much smaller than the language corpora used in larger statisticalstudies (Church and Mercer 1993).
The deep semantic and pragmatic knowledge that was required forthe current study has necessitated this.2 This paper will add a reference to the end of all examples that have come directly from the corpus,indicating the manual from which they were taken.
Examples of actual IMAGENE output will be fullyitalicized.
All other examples are contrived for explanatory purposes.32Keith Vander Linden and James H. Martin Expressing Rhetorical RelationsThis passage gives an example of the variation of expressional form that is commonin instructional text.
It contains, among other things, two expressions of purpose:"remove phone" and "to place calls."
This notion of purpose, which will be detailedin the next section, is one of actions that are to be realized through the execution ofexpressed sub-actions.
The first is stated as an imperative ("remove the phone"), withthe sub-actions expressed in participial form within a by prepositional phrase ("byfirmly grasping top of handset and pulling out").
The second ("to place calls"), on theother hand, is expressed in final position as a to infinitive, with its sub-action stated asan imperative ("return to seat").
The problem to be addressed by the corpus analysisin step 2 is to determine the contextual features used to choose these forms as opposedto the alternate forms that could have expressed the "same basic information.
"A relational-style database is used to represent the rhetorical, grammatical, andlexical aspects of the corpus.
The representation f the grammatical form of the clausesand phrases is based on traditional principles of syntax and semantics.
Clauses andphrases are represented in separate tables.
Links within the clause table are used toindicate subordinate relations, and links between the clause and phrase tables areused to represent relative clauses and predicate-argument relations.
It also includessemantic information such as the agent of a particular action (e.g., the reader or thedevice) and the semantic type of the predication (e.g., material or relational process).More detail on the database can be found elsewhere (Vander Linden 1993c).
The goalwas to allow for the representation f any element of the pragmatic, semantic, orsyntactic ontext hat might be relevant in the analysis.Mann and Thompson's RST has been used to encode the rhetorical relations be-tween expressions in the corpus (Mann and Thompson 1987, 1988).
It was developedas a framework for describing text structure, viewed in terms of the semantic andpragmatic relations that hold between text spans at all levels.
The current study hasmade use of five such relations: Purpose, Precondition, Result, Sequence, and Concur-rent.
This section will now make some general observations concerning RST, presentan example RST analysis of the Remove-Phone t xt, and conclude with definitions ofthe relations used in the study.RST distinguishes between what are called nucleus-satellite and multi-nuclear sche-mata.
The nucleus-satellite schema relates two spans of text: one designating a morecentral span, called the nucleus, and a more peripheral one, called the satellite.
This re-lation is represented graphically with a directed arrow from the satellite to the nucleus.Definitions of relations of this sort specify constraints hat apply to the nucleus (N), thesatellite (S), and the combination of the two and specify the effects of the expression.Purpose, Precondition, and Result are examples of such relations.
The multi-nuclearschema relates one or more spans, designating no span as superordinate or subor-dinate to any other.
Definitions of relations of this sort include specification of theconstraints on the nuclei and the combination of nuclei, as well as a specification ofthe effect of the expression.
The Sequence and Concurrent relations are such relations.RST was attractive for the IMAGENE project because of its ability to represent the hi-erarchical structure of text with rhetorical structures that matched the level of analysisrequired for the study of expressions ofprocedural relations.
There is considerable de-bate in the field of discourse analysis concerning the relative importance of intentionalstructure and rhetorical relations (e.g., Grosz and Sidner 1986; Moore and Pollack 1992),most systems focusing on one or the other.
The current study has conflated them, asthe instructional texts have not tended to display the complex intentional structurecommon to persuasive texts and interactive discourses (Vander Linden 1993b).Finally, RST has been used by many researchers for the purpose of text generation(e.g., Moore and Paris 1988; Hovy and McCoy 1989; Scott and Souza 1990; R6sner33Computational Linguistics Volume 21, Number 1Precondition \[(1) Instruct ~ 1(2) Remove ~uence(3) Grasp (4) PullPurpose151 Return (6) PlaceFigure 1The RST representation f the Remove-Phone t xt.and Stede 1992a).
This testifies not only to RST's usefulness, but also to the directapplicability of the results of the current study to the field of natural anguage gen-eration.
Because of the common use of RST, the results can be more easily applied toother work in this area.
In particular, the focus on the precise forms of expression ofrhetorical relations in instructional text fills an important gap in current work (see thework of Scott and Souza \[1990\] on expressing rhetorical relations).Consider the application of RST to the Remove-Phone t xt.
The first problem thatmust be addressed in any RST analysis is the segmentation f the text into spansthat will serve as the atomic units of description.
In RST, these spans have typicallybeen clauses, as is the case in the Remove-Phone passage, but certain phrases withpropositional content may be considered as well.
The spans used in our analysis arepropositional units that express ingle actions.
In the Remove-Phone t xt, there are sixsuch action expressions, listed here in segmented form:.2.3.4.5.6.When instructed (approx.
10 sec.
)remove phoneby firmly grasping top of handsetand pulling out.Return to seatto place calls.The second problem is one of relating these segments in the appropriate rhetoricalstructure.
The current study has used the two aspects of the RST specification thatcan be mapped onto the procedural structure of the process being expressed, namely,the hierarchical structure of RST and the subset of RST relations that correspond toprocedural relations.
Each of these two aspects will be discussed with reference to theRST representation for the Remove-Phone t xt, shown in Figure 1.
3The first aspect of this structure is its hierarchical nature.
The procedural sequenceschema at the top of the text hierarchy, for example, indicates that there are two3 The actual RST and grammatical nalyses of the text were performed by one of the authors, and theexamples crucial to the formalization of the results were reviewed by both authors.
This approachwould be difficult in the analysis of certain more complex texts such as persuasive t xts, but proved tobe adequate in the study of local structure in instructional text.34Keith Vander Linden and James H. Martin Expressing Rhetorical Relationsspans of text that express a sequence of two actions.
The spans themselves can beexpressed as single propositional units or as more complex spans, the latter being thecase with the two spans in this sequence.
This is a representational manifestation fthe hierarchical nature of the processes themselves and is displayed graphically byextending the horizontal line of a span to cover all of its subordinate spans.
The RSTrepresentation f the Remove-Phone t xt is a small portion of the full hierarchy thatrepresents he entire manual.
The current study has focused on the expression of justsuch local sub-trees; the problems of expression of macro-structure are beyond thescope of the analysis (see Mooney, Carberry, and McCoy 1991).The second aspect of this structure is the nature of the rhetorical relations them-selves.
The representation makes use of five relations: Purpose, Precondition, Result,Sequence, and Concurrent, which are used as abstractions to identify the lexical andgrammatical manifestations of the procedural relations inherent in the process.
Theyare termed informational by Moore and Pollack (1992) and subject matter by Mann andThompson (1987) because they are based on semantic ontent rather than on inten-tional or presentational content.
4 This section will now provide specific definitions ofthese relations.PURPOSE (taken from Mann and Thompson 1987)constraints on N: presents an activityconstraints on S: presents a situation that is unrealizedconstraints on the N+S combination:S presents a situation to be realized through the activity in Nthe effect: R recognizes that the activity in N is initiated in order torealize SThe Purpose relation is taken directly from the RST specification.
In this paper, itrefers to a situation in which a higher level activity is realized through the executionof lower level sub-steps.
An example can be found in the Remove-Phone t xt citedabove: "...  remove phone by firmly grasping top of handset and pulling out."
Here theactivity of removing the phone is realized by the execution of the sub-steps of graspingand pulling the phone.PRECONDITION (taken from R6sner and Stede 1992a)constraints on N: presents an actionconstraints on S: presents an unrealized situationconstraints on the N+S combination:S must be realized in order to make it possible or sensibleto carry out Nthe effect: R recognizes that situation S must be realized in order tosuccessfully carry out action NThe Precondition relation is a simple amalgam of the standard RST relations Cir-cumstance and Condition.
It has been taken from R6sner and Stede's work on gener-ating multilingual instructions (R6sner and Stede 1992a).
This particular combinationhas proven useful in analyzing various kinds of conditions and circumstances that4 There is some question as to whether these semantically based relations hould be termed rhetorical inthe classic sense at all (Dale 1993).
Because of the prevalence of this use of the term, however, it will beretained in this paper.35Computational Linguistics Volume 21, Number 1frequently arise in instructions, uch as the precondition found in the Remove-Phonetext: "When instructed (approx.
10 sec.)
remove phone .. .
.  "
Here, the removal of thephone must not be attempted until after the device has instructed the user to do so.RESULT (adapted fromconstraints on N:constraints on S:constraints on the N+Sthe effect:Mann and Thompson 1987)nonepresents either a volitional or non-volitional ction orthe situation that could have arisen from onecombination:N presents a situation that could have caused the situationpresented in S; presentation of N is more central to W'spurposes in putting forth the N-S combination than isthe presentation of S.R recognizes that the situation presented in N could be acause for the action or situation presented in SThe Result relation is a simple amalgam of RST's volitional and non-volitional re-sults.
It was useful for analyzing expressions ofactions or situations that are expressedas being the result of other actions, as in "Place the handset in the base.
The BATTERYCHARGE INDICATOR will light."
(Excursion 1989).
Here, the device's action of lightingthe indicator is a result of the reader's action of placing the handset in the base.SEQUENCE (taken from Mann and Thompson 1987)constraints on N: multi-nuclearconstraints on the combinat ion of nuclei:A succession relationship between the situations ispresented in the nucleithe effect: R recognizes the succession relations among the nucleiThe Sequence relation is taken directly from the RST specification and refers toactions that are in temporal sequence, as in the following excerpt from the Remove-Phone text: ".. .
by firmly grasping top of handset and pulling out.
"CONCURRENT (adapted from Mann and Thompson 1987)constraints on N: multi-nuclearconstraints on the combinat ion of nuclei:A simultaneous relation between distinct situations ispresented in the nucleithe effect: R recognizes the simultaneous relations among thenucleiFinally, the Concurrent relation is a simple extension of Sequence, referring toactions that are distinct but simultaneous.
An example can be found in "Press andhold the mouse button while you move the mouse."
(Macintosh 1988).
Here, holdingthe mouse button and moving the mouse must be done simultaneously.36Keith Vander Linden and James H. Martin Expressing Rhetorical Relations4.
Corpus AnalysisTwo related issues must be addressed in the corpus analysis:..Determining the range of expressional forms commonly used byinstructional text writers.Determining the precise communicative context in which each of theseforms is used.With a couple of minor exceptions, the study was performed exclusively on threeinstruction manuals for cordless telephones (approximately one-third of our corpus),and the results were applied to the remainder of the corpus.
The exceptions involvedso that and until expressions and expressions of concurrency, which were not wellrepresented in the telephone manuals.
Examples of these expressions were taken fromthe remainder of the corpus.
The method employed therefore has much in commonwith the method proposed by Quinlan and implemented in ID3 (Quinlan 1986) in thatthe training set is expanded in cases where there are insufficient examples on which tobase a full analysis.
So far, the testing set has not been expanded to include exampleson which to test these so that, until, and concurrent expressions.4.1 The Range of ExpressionsThe first task is that of determining the range of lexical and grammatical forms usedto express each particular hetorical relation.
The full corpus contains 119 purposeexpressions, all but four of which occur in one of the following seven forms (thepurpose, i.e., the satellite span of the rhetorical relation, is italicized):(3a) To end a previous call, hold down FLASH \[6\] for about two seconds, thenrelease it.
(Code-a-phone 1989)(3b) Follow the steps in the illustration below, for desk installation.
(Code-a-phone 1989)(3c) The OFF position is primarily used for charging the batteries.
(Code-a-phone 1989)(3d) For frequently busy numbers, you'll want to use REDIAL \[7\], and thepause will have to be in Redial memory.
(Code-a-phone 1989)(3e) When instructed (approx.
10 sec.)
remove phone by firmly grasping top ofhandset and pulling out.
(Airfone 1991)(3f) Return handset to wall unit from which it was taken.
Insert heel first asshown, then push top in firmly.
(Airfone 1991)(3g) Tilt pan down slightly at the rear so that the fluid drains out.
(Reader'sDigest 1981)All four of the issues of lexical and grammatical choice we addressed are displayedhere.
The purpose expressions can be textually placed in the slot either before or af-ter the expression of their sub-actions.
Furthermore, there are seven combinations ofgrammatical form, linker, and clause combining to choose from, the relative frequen-cies and percentages of which are given in Table 1 (where the letters in example (3)correspond to the letters in the table).
Example (3a) uses a to infinitive form (TNF).37Computational Linguistics Volume 21, Number 1Table 1The frequency of various form and slot combinations of purposes in instructional text.Initial Final Total (Count) Total (Percentage)(a) To-Infinitive 38 33 71 59.6%(b) For-Nominalization 2 7 9 7.5%(c) For-Gerund 0 3 3 2.5%(d) For-Goal-Metonymy 1 5 6 5.0%(e) By-Purpose 11 1 12 10.0%(f) Adjoined-Purpose 4 0 4 3.3%(g) So-That-Purpose 0 10 10 8.4%Other 4 4 3.3%Example (3b) uses a for prepositional phrase with a nominalization ("installation")as the complement.
Example (3d) uses a for preposition with a gerund phrase as thecomplement.
Example (3c) uses a for preposition with a noun phrase that refers to theobject (or goal) of the corresponding action as the complement.
This is termed GoalMetonymy.
Example (3e) uses a simple imperative for the purpose with by conjoiningparticipial forms of the intended actions.
Example (3f) uses a simple imperative for thepurpose, with the intended actions in a separate sentence following the purpose.
Ex-ample (3g) uses a simple imperative for the intended actions, with a so that conjoininga present ense action form of the purpose.
54.2 The Context of ExpressionThe second task, that of determining the functional context in which each of the formsis used is more difficult.
The IMAGENE project employs a hypothesis generation andtest cycle, such as the one advocated by Cumming (1990) in an attempt o identifycorrelations between the contextual features of communicative context on the onehand, and the lexical and grammatical forms on the other.This methodology starts with the range of lexical and grammatical forms corre-sponding to each of the rhetorical relations considered.
In the hypothesis phase, theanalyst hypothesizes a feature of the communicative context hat appears to correlatewith the variation of some aspect of the lexical and grammatical forms.
These hy-potheses may come from an intuitive analysis of the texts, as well as from the currentliterature on the subject.
The features themselves pertain to any of three aspects of thecommunicative context (termed metafunctions in systemic linguistics): Ideational--thepropositional meaning of the material being expressed (associated with the traditionalnotion of semantics); Textual--the flow and structure of the text (associated with dis-course analysis); and Interpersonal--the uman relationships between interlocutors(associated with socio-linguistics) (Halliday 1985).
All of these types of features haveproven relevant in the analysis.
In the test phase, the analyst attempts to validate thehypothesis by querying the database for the relevant information.
These two phasesare repeated until a good match is achieved or until a relevant hypothesis cannot befound.As an example of this methodology, consider the issue of slot, that is, the deter-mination of which span in a rhetorical relation should be expressed first.
The slot of5 This study has temporarily characterized these so that expressions a action/sub-action expressions.
Amore detailed analysis of how the situations that give rise to them differ from those for other purposesis yet to be performed.38Keith Vander Linden and James H. Martin Expressing Rhetorical Relationspurpose xpressions in our corpus is split fairly evenly between initial and final pur-pose expressions.
Of the 119 purpose xpressions, approximately 48% are fronted and52% are not fronted.
These values are similar to the percentages of initial and finalpurpose clauses found by Thompson (1985) for procedural texts.
Although she reportsjust over 18% initial purpose clauses for English text in general, she reports 49% initialpurpose clauses for a book of recipes and 34% for an auto-repair manual.Thompson's study indicated that one common feature of fronted purpose clausesis that their scope is global, that is, there is more than one expressed proposition thatis directly related to the fulfillment of the purpose (e.g., "To achieve purpose A, doB and do C." where there are two sub-actions, B and C).
Such a purpose clause isexpressing a context in which the prescribed sub-actions are to be interpreted andthus should be fronted.
This provides a good starting hypothesis for determining theslot of purposes, namely, that global purpose clauses are fronted.
Upon inspection,we find that only three cases of global purpose xpressions in our corpus (7.9%) arenot fronted.
This yields strong support for the hypothesis and allows us to go on anddiscern what factors motivated the counter-examples.
This process continues eitheruntil no distinctions can be found, or until there are not enough examples on whichto base the distinctions.The next question to be asked is whether this is the only explanation of frontedpurpose xpressions, or whether there are other fronted purpose xpressions that arenot global.
This can be addressed by querying all the fronted, non-global purposeclauses in the corpus.
In the current corpus, this set is non-empty, which leads to theconclusion that there are other factors at work in the question of purpose slot.
Theiterative process of hypothesis generation and testing can then be conducted on theseother cases in a similar manner.This analysis technique is designed to identify covariation between elements ofthe communicative context on the one hand and grammatical form on the other.
Thepurpose slot analysis just discussed, for example, identifies the existence of a covari-ation between purpose scope and slot.
This covariation, however, does not constituteproof that the technical writer actually considers the issue of slot during the gener-ation process, nor that the prescribed form is actually more effective than any other.Proof of either of these issues would require psycholinguistic esting.
This study pro-vides detailed prescriptions concerning how such testing should be performed, i.e.,what forms should be tested and what contexts controlled for, but it does not actuallyperform the tests.
A discussion of this may be found elsewhere (Vander Linden 1993a).5.
IMAGENEThis section will discuss the theoretical framework of the implementation a d thendetail the treatment for purpose xpressions.
The full IMAGENE architecture, asdepictedin Figure 2, consists of a System Network and a Sentence Building routine and is builton top of Penman.
It transforms inputs (shown on the left in Figure 2) into instructionaltext (shown on the right).5.1 IMAGENE's ArchitecturePenman, a sentence-level generator developed at the USC Information Sciences In-stitute (Mann 1985; Penman 1989), was employed not only because of its broad cov-erage of English syntax, but also because it is based on a Systemic-Functional viewof language (Halliday 1976).
The Systemic view is distinctly functional, that is, it isparticularly interested in mapping elements of the communicative context onto theappropriate grammatical forms.
As a by-product of this view of language, Penman39Computational Linguistics Volume 21, Number 1?
TextI Level II Inquiries?
IInstructionalTextFigure 2IMAGENE's architecture.contains a well-developed implementation f the System Network, the Systemic formal-ism for representing grammar.The system network is basically a decision network in which each choice pointdistinguishes between alternative features of the communicative context.
It has beenused extensively in Systemic Linguistics to address both sentence-level and text-levelissues (e.g., Berry 1981; Patten 1988; Fawcett 1990).
Such networks are traversed basedon the appropriate f atures of the communicative context, and as a side effect of thistraversal, inguistic structures are constructed by realization statements hat are associ-ated with each feature of the network.
Penman's networks are specifically designedto construct English sentences.IMAGENE's system network is built in a similar manner, but because it constructstext structures rather than sentences, its realization statements have a flavor signifi-cantly different from their counterparts in the grammar developed for Penman.
6 Wenow give a short discussion of how IMAGENE'S realization statements can manipulatethe evolving text structure, making reference to the text structure produced by IMA-GENE for the portion of the Remove-Phone t xt shown in Figure 3 (which correspondsto the text span "... remove phone by firmly grasping top of handset and pullingout").
The full analysis of the Remove-Phone t xt will be given later; here we intendto illustrate only the types of manipulations made by the realization statements.?
Inserting nodes into the text structure (iterative-insert, insert,copy)--IMAGENE starts with an empty text structure and uses thesestatements o insert action nodes as appropriate.
In Figure 3, forexample, the Remove-Action, Grasp-Action, and Pull-Action nodes referto the actions of removing, grasping, and pulling the handset.?
Ordering the surface xpression of the nodes (order, reorder,insert-order, combine)--IMAGENE uses these statements o specify the6 Penman's sentence-level r alization statements work with a single, prespecified list of features of thesentence, called grammatical functions, such as ACTOR, PROCESS, GOAL, and THEME.
At thetext-level, there is no definitive list of what might be called text functions.
Rather, IMAGENE'S realizationstatements allow the insertion of subscripted elements that can correspond to lists of sequentialcommands, multiple preconditions, etc.40Keith Vander Linden and James H. Martin Expressing Rhetorical RelationsPurposeRemove-ActionForm: ImperativeContinue_~ "SentenceSequenceGrasp-Action Pull-ActionForm: ing Form: ingLinker: By Linker: andContinue-SentenceFigure 3A segment of the Text Structure for the Remove-Phone example.order of expression of the action nodes.
The choice of clause-combiningstrategies i made here as well.
In Figure 3, the links are shown aslightfaced irected arrows, marked with either New-Sentence orContinue-Sentence (in this segment, only the latter is used).
Reorder isused to change an ordering made earlier in the processing, whereas theothers establish the order of newly inserted nodes.Building the RST structure between odes (structure, unlink)--IMAGENEuses structure to create hierarchical text structure links between odesand unlink to remove them.
Figure 3 contains a purpose relation and asequential relation.
As with reorder, unlink is used to "un-structure" adefault structuring.Marking the lexical and grammatical forms of expression of the nodes(mark, iterative-mark)--The realization statements also determine thegrammatical form of the expression of each of the nodes in the structure.In Figure 3, the Remove-Phone node, for example, is marked as animperative, and the Grasp-Action as an ing form with the linker by.IMAGENE'S network consists of approximately 70systems.
It maps those features ofthe communicative context deemed relevant in the corpus analysis performed in step 2onto the appropriate l xical and grammatical forms for expressing each action.
Thenetwork, having the basic high-level structure shown in Figure 4, performs the twobasic functions of Content and Rhetorical Status Selection and Grammatical Form Selection.We view Content Selection as the process of choosing the appropriate actions fromthe process plan to express and Rhetorical Status Selection as the process of choosingthe appropriate rhetorical relation to be used in expressing each of these actions.
IMA-GENE contains a sub-network implementing these two processes that is currently verypreliminary (Vander Linden 1993c).
7This paper focuses on the Grammatical Form Se-lection portion of the network, that is, the choice, given an action to be expressed andits rhetorical status, of the appropriate l xical and grammatical forms of expression.We will present a detailed discussion of the purpose sub-network below, which isrepresentative of the other grammatical form sub-networks.7 Paris (1988, 1993) discusses this issue in more detail, particularly asit pertains to user modeling.41Computational Linguistics Volume 21, Number 1Content andRhetorical StatusSelection SystemsGrammatical FormSelec!i.o.n..Systems ..............~ Purpose Systems1/~..P.r.ec?ndi.t.i?.n..SY s!e.m.s...,, Result Systems iNN~N~.
Sequence Systems iI "~.~ "Concurrent SystemsFigure 4A high-level view of the systems in the network.The input to IMAGENE is the set of features of the functional context hat affect theform of expression of the plan, called the text-level inquiries in Figure 2.
This input is im-plemented as a set of responses to the inquiries made by the IMAGENE system networkpursuant o determining the appropriate path to be taken through the IMAGENE systemnetwork.
They are analogous to Penman's entence-level inquiries.
Currently, the datastructures and code necessary to respond to the inquiries automatically have not beenimplemented.
Rather, the inquiries are answered manually, allowing us to focus ondetermining the appropriate set of inquiries and the precise lexical and grammaticalconsequences of the responses of these inquiries.
The dashed lines in Figure 2 indicatesome of the information sources that the inquiry implementations will access (i.e., theProcess Structure, the Penman lexicon and grammar, and the evolving text structure).As a side effect of traversing the network, IMAGENE'S realization statements automati-cally realize these consequences in a text structure (also shown in Figure 2).
The TextStructure, to be discussed more fully in Section 5.3, is represented in IMAGENE'S TextRepresentation Language (TRL).
TRL itself is implemented in LOOM (MacGregor andBates 1987; Loom 1993).A second input shown in Figure 2, the Process Structure, is a representation ofthe process to be expressed.
It is built in IMAGENE'S Process Representation Language(PRL), which is also implemented in LOOM and will also be discussed in Section 5.3.It is a representation like that produced by a procedural planner, containing the pro-cedural hierarchy of the process being expressed as well as some information aboutthe lexical items used to express each action and its arguments.
It is currently built byhand, which allows us to focus on the problem of expression rather than on planning.As previously mentioned, the Process Structure will eventually become a funda-mental source of procedural information for the text inquiries.
Currently, however, itis simply used by the final component of the architecture, the Sentence Builder, tospecify the appropriate lexical items and case structures for the action input to thetext-level inquiries.
The Sentence Builder uses the lexical information given in theProcess Structure just described, to translate the Text Structure, described above, intothe appropriate sentence specification to be passed to Penman for surface realization.This specification is coded in terms of Penman's Sentence Planning Language (SPL)(Kasper 1989), a language that allows the specification of the lexical items and gram-42Keith Vander Linden and James H. Martin Expressing Rhetorical Relationsmatical structures to be generated by Penman.
The translation process is performedby a recursive descent of the Text Structure hierarchy.
One SPL command is producedfor each sentence in the Text Structure.5.2 Purpose Relations in Instructional TextPurpose expressions arise in the context in which actions are viewed as being relatedhierarchically, that is, in which one higher level action is realized by the execution ofa set of lower level actions.
8 As Section 4 indicated, there are a large number of lexicaland grammatical forms in which such procedural relations are typically expressed,each used in a particular functional context.
This section discusses the systems thathave been included in IMAGENE to distinguish among these contexts.There are other studies of purpose expressions from the point of view of repre-sentation and understanding that are of use here (Di Eugenio 1992; Balkanski 1992).Di Eugenio, for example, has worked with by purposes and to infinitive (TNF) pur-poses in the context of understanding, but does not appear to have distinguished thetwo forms in her analysis of the procedural relations between actions.
The currentstudy is critically interested in discerning principled reasons for choosing betweenthese sorts of expressions.The issues of slot and form of purpose expressions are treated largely indepen-dently by IMAGENE.
The slot is determined by the sub-network shown in Figure 5.
Theform is determined by the sub-networks shown later in Figures 7 and 8.
This portionof the system network is capable of generating a greater range of purpose xpressionsthan is typical in generation systems and of identifying the functional reasons forchoosing one form over the other.
It should be noted that while the determinationsmade by the systems are based solely on the results of the corpus analysis conductedin step 2, the following sections will include intuitive motivations for the realizationsthe systems make.5.2.1 Purpose Slot.
The slot determination portion of the purpose sub-network, shownin Figure 5, formalizes Thompson's notion of the "vastly different functions" for initialand final purpose clauses (Thompson 1985) in the context of instructional text.
Ittypically places the purpose expression in the final position.
The exceptions to thisare when the scope of the purpose is global, the purpose is considered optional, orthe purpose is considered contrastive.
These three exceptions are handled by the threesystems depicted in Figure 5.
9The first exception, handled by the Scope system, concerns the number of ac-tions pertained to by the purpose.
This correspondence b tween global purposes andfronted purpose xpressions was already discussed in the corpus analysis ection, butto give an intuitive feel for this empirical result, consider the awkwardness of restatingexample (3a) as "??
Hold down FLASH \[6\] for about wo seconds, then release it to enda previous call.
"1?
The restatement seems to imply, incorrectly, that the purpose applies8 Goldman has termed these hierarchical relations generation relations (Goldman 1970).
A detaileddiscussion of them can be found elsewhere (Balkanski 1993; Di Eugenio 1993).9 In the system network notation, vertical ines indicate decision points.
The boldfaced names aresystems, the normal font names are features, and the italicized names are realization statements.
Theordering realization statements are denoted with the operators > and \], meaning order the clauses inthe same sentence and order the clauses in separate sentences, respectively.
More detail on thisnotation can be found elsewhere (Winograd 1983, ch.
6).10 The "??"
notation is used to denote a possible form of expression that is not typically found in ourcorpus; it does not indicate ungrammaticality.43Computational Linguistics Volume 21, Number 1ScopeGlobalCopy(Purpose, Internal-Purpose)Unlink( lnternal-Purpose, Form)Unlink( Inte rnal-Purpose, Trace)Unlink( Purpose, Schema)Structure(Internal-Purpose, Purpose)OptionalityLocalOptionalPurpose>NucleusContrastivenessRequiredContrastivePurpose>NucleusNot-ContrastiveNucleus>PurposeFigure 5The purpose slot selection etwork.AGrasp PullBPurposeRemovequenceGrasp PullFigure 6A structural view of purpose demotion.to the last action alone rather than to the sequence of actions.
The fronted form, inexample (3a), makes no such implication.As can be seen in Figure 5, the Global feature of the Scope system contains five re-alization statements, all making changes to the evolving text structure.
In the Remove-Phone text, for example, these statements restructure or demote the Remove action inthe hierarchical structure shown in Figure 6A into a satellite node in the RST structureshown in Figure 6B.
They do not, however, actually contain the realization statement toset the textual order of the purpose xpression (which would read Purpose > Nucleus);later systems in this branch of the decision network execute this statement.The remaining exceptions occur when the purpose is considered optional or con-trastive and are handled by Optionality and Contrastiveness, respectively.
Here areexamples of them from the corpus:(4) For more information and wall installation instructions, ee the InstallationNotes on page 3.
(Code-a-phone 1989)(5) To place call, dial AREA CODE and NUMBER.
To end call, press redHANG UP button.
(Airfone 1991)44?
Keith Vander Linden and James H. Martin Expressing Rhetorical RelationsIn example (4), the action of getting more information is optional, that is, thereader may or may not want more information at this point in the text.
11 The purposeexpression is therefore stated first to set the appropriate context for interpreting theprescribed sub-action.
In example (5), the purpose of ending a call is stated in contrastto placing a call in the previous sentence.
It is thus fronted to set the appropriatecontext for the prescribed action.
This fronting of contrastive purposes occurred in ourcorpus in the context of three oppositional semantic situations: (1) initiating/ending;(2) allowing/preventing; and (3) activating/deactivating.The results of this study predict a number of cases in which purposes houldnot be fronted, which is in contrast o the general claim made by Dixon (1987).
Heclaimed that purposes hould always be fronted because this facilitates the top~lownconstruction of a procedural plan by readers as they progress through the text.
Ourresults how cases in which this rule is not followed by technical writers, that is, whenthe purpose is neither global, optional, nor contrastive.5.2.2 Purpose Form.
The form selection sub-network, shown in Figures 712 and 8,determines the grammatical form of purpose xpressions.
The first element of the formselection sub-network is Conditional-Status, which determines whether the high-levelpurpose being expressed has special conditions pertaining to it, such as the expressedprecondition i  example (6a) or other conditions that restrict he applicability of thepurpose, as in example (7a) ("to wall unit from which it was taken").
If so, either a bypurpose or an adjoined purpose xpression is used, depending upon the complexityof the resulting sentence as determined by Sentence-Complexity.
The slot of theseforms is always initial and is determined here, rather than in the slot selection sub-network just discussed.
As was the case in our corpus, IMAGENE expresses purposesthat involve five or more propositions using the adjoined form and otherwise withthe by form.
Consider the following examples of these situations:(6a) When instructed (approx.
10 sec.)
remove phone by firmly grasping top ofhandset and pulling out.
(Airfone 1991)(6b) ??
To remove phone when instructed (approx.
10 sec.
), firmly grasp top ofhandset and pull out.
(7a) Return handset to wall unit from which it was taken.
Insert heel first asshown, then push top in firmly.
(Airfone 1991)(7b) ??
Return handset to wall unit from which it was taken by insertingheel first as shown, then pushing top in firmly.In example (6a), there is a precondition on the high-level purpose of removingthe phone, a feature that correlates well with the use of the by form.
Example (6b)seems to make the incorrect implication that the prescribed actions work only "wheninstructed."
In the second example, the by form would similarly be prescribed byIMAGENE (because of the condition that the handset be returned "to wall unit from which11 The distinction between conditions and optional purposes is under the purview of rhetorical statusselection and is yet to be addressed.12 Curly braces indicate that all sub-networks on the right should be entered.
Square brackets indicatethat all inputs must be true before entering the system on the right.
The fact that the Global-Purposefeature is required for entry to the Purpose-TNF system, as well as the input conditions representednormally in the figure, is indicated with an arrow pointing to the additional input conditions.
Thesedeterminations are made by the Scope system that is not repeated here.45Computational Linguistics Volume 21, Number 1Local-PurposeGlobal-Purpose ~ f~ \1 Front.Local.ByPurpose>NucleusConditions ~ \Mark(imperative) \ ] \( Front-Global-ByPurpose>NucleusConditional- s tos IVolitionalityNo-ConditionsGlobal-Purpose~ Sentence-ComplexityOKMark(Nucleus, by)Mark-Children(Nucleus, ing)Too-ComplexMark-Children(Nucleus,imperative)PurposelNucleus Volitional -NonReaderMark(act)Mark(present)Mark(so-that) ~ MetonymyMark(goal-metonymy)Mark(for)Not-Volitional St~tu~Purpose-TNF 1 No-Metonymy ~/ Mark(TNF)Figure 7High-level systems for the purpose form system network.it was taken"), but the number of propositions in the resulting sentence, (7b), appearsto be too great (return, taken, insert, shown, push), forcing the use of the adjoinedform, (7a).
The adjoined purpose form is an example of a case in which the rhetoricalstructure of a text need not be explicitly signaled with a lexical or grammatical cue(except extual order), called an "inferred connective" by Crothers (1979).
RST allowsthe representation f this situation because its relations are not defined in terms oflexical and grammatical forms (Mann and Thompson 1987).When a purpose does not have conditions upon it and the scope is global, Purpose-TNF marks the purpose as a to infinitive (TNF).
Example (3a) illustrated this.
Thesesorts of context-setting purposes are not demoted to phrase status.
This reflects thefact that global purposes are not expressed in phrasal form in our corpus.The Volitionality system determines whether the purpose xpresses the desire ofthe reader to get some inanimate substance to perform in some volitional way.
Thiscontext usually leads to the use of the so that purpose, as shown in example (3g).Quite often these substances are liquids, but may also include other inanimates.
Whatdistinguishes liquids appears to be their ability to drip or drain over a period of time.Consider the following alternate forms for expressing purpose:(8a) Sit the person up leaning slightly forward so that blood and saliva can drainfrom his mouth.
(Rosenberg 1985)(8b) ??
Sit the person up leaning slightly forward in order to allow bloodand saliva to drain from his mouth.The form in example (8a) is more commonly used in our corpus in this context.46Keith Vander Linden and James H. Martin Expressing Rhetorical RelationsNominal-Availabilit,AvailableNot-AvailableNominal-ArgumentsTNF-ArgumentsNominal-OK ComplexityToo-ManyMark(TNF)OKMark(TNF)BadMark(ing)Mark(for)Figure 8Nominalization systems of the purpose form system network.SimplexMark(nominal)Mark(for)ComplexMark(TNF)Goal-Status determines whether the use of Goal Metonymy is warranted.
Theterm Goal is used here as a case relation, corresponding to what is also called theme(Allen 1987).
This metonymy occurs in purposes in which the direct object (or goal)of the purpose clause is more important than the action, as in(9) For frequently busy numbers, you'll want to use REDIAL \[7\], and the pausewill have to be in Redial memory.
(Code-a-phone 1989)The corpus study revealed that situations in which the full purpose would besomething like "to handle frequently busy numbers" or "for dealing with frequentlybusy numbers," tend to be expressed using this sort of ellipsis.
The goal of the verb,in this case the busy numbers, metonymically refers to the action as a whole.The remainder of the form selection sub-network, shown in Figure 8, is capableof generating three discrete points along the continuum from fully nominal to fullyverbal forms (Quirk et al 1985), namely the nominalization, the gerund, and to infini-tive.
These are the forms that were present in our corpus.
Nominal-Availability willrealize a prepositional phrase with a nominalization asthe complement whenever theappropriate nominalization exists, as in example (9a).
I313 This analysis of nominalizations is an example of the descriptive nature of the current study ofinstructional text.
The descriptive observation has been made that when nominalized forms of a verbexist in the lexicon, they tend to be used.
A full explanatory account, in the spirit of currentDiscourse-Functional studies (e.g., Matthiessen and Thompson 1987; Thompson 1987), would attemptto identify the precise aspect of the action or the context of its expression that would dictate the use ofa nominalization, thus resulting in the development of a nominalized form in the English language.Such an account is beyond the scope of the current study.47Computational Linguistics Volume 21, Number 1(9a) Follow the steps in the illustration below, for desk installation.
(Code-a-phone 1989)This use of phrases with nominalizations a  propositional units is common ininstructional text as well as in academic text (Cumming 1991) and formal text ingeneral (Hovy 1987).
IMAGENE'S architecture implements a particular interpretation fCumming's proposal (1991) that nominalizations be dealt with at two levels, one atwhich the actions are not specified for nominal or clausal expression, and another inwhich they are.
IMAGENE'S Process Structure can be seen as the former level, its TextStructure as the latter.Even if a nominalization exists, however, it still may not be used depending uponthe determination f Nominal-Arguments and Nominal-Complexity.
These systems,based on the examples in our corpus, restrict nominalizations to single, non-complexarguments.
Consider the following examples:(10a)(10b)(lla)(llb)Use the VOL LO/HI \[2\] switch to adjust volume to your preferred listeninglevel.
(Code-a-phone 1989)??
Use the VOL LO/HI \[2\] switch for volume adjustment toyour preferredlistening level.FLASH uses proper timing to avoid an accidental hangup.
(Code-a-phone1989)??
FLASH uses proper timing for accidental hangup avoidance.In cases (10a) and (11a), taken from our corpus, there were nominalizations avail-able, namely "adjustment" and "avoidance," but neither was used.
The adjustmentnominalization i (10b) was apparently not used because it required more than oneargument.
The avoidance nominalization i (11b) appears to have been rejected be-cause the argument "accidental hangup" was itself a nominalization and thus toocomplex.
In both cases, the to infinitive form was preferred.If no nominalization is available, TNF-Arguments will produce the to infinitive(TNF), unless the infinitive form requires the expression of redundant arguments.
Hereis an example of this case:(12a) The BATT LOW Light \[9\] comes ON when the battery is weak.
Thehandset must be returned to the base for recharging.
(Code-a-phone 1989)(12b) ??
The BATT LOW Light \[9\] comes ON when the battery is weak.
Thehandset must be returned to the base to recharge (the battery?
).Examples imilar to (12a) were found in the corpus, whereas those similar to thealternative to infinitive expression, (12b), were not.5.3 The Remove-Phone ExampleAs an example of the data structures used by IMAGENE, consider the PRL representationof the actions from the Remove-Phone t xt, depicted graphically in Figure 9.
'4 Note14 Return-Action is a child of Place-Action because we have viewed it as the first of the sub-actions of"placing a call."
In cases such as this one, the procedural distinction between child and sibling actionsis a tricky one (see Di Eugenio 1993).
We have routinely classified actions expressed with to infinitiveconstructions as parent nodes rather than as sibling nodes.
We leave a more complete treatment of thisdistinction to future work.48Keith Vander Linden and James H. Martin Expressing Rhetorical Relations*PRL-Root*Instruct-ActionAction-Type: InstructActor: PhoneActee: HearerRemove-ActionAction-Type: RemoveActor: HearerActee: PhoneGrasp-Action Pull-ActionAction-Type: Grasp Action-Type: PullActor: Hearer Actor: HearerActee: Handset Actee: HandsetPlace-ActionAction-Type: Place-CanActor: HearerActee: CallReturn-ActionAction-Type: ReturnActor: HearerDestination: SeatFigure 9The Process Structure for the Remove-Phone t xt.that this structure is currently built by hand.
It is assumed that it could be constructedusing artificial intelligence planning methodologies.
Note also that the PRL structure,in the various slots for each node, specifies the Penman lexical entries for most of thelexical choice issues, thus allowing IMAGENE to concentrate on expressing proceduralrelations.Given this structural representation f a sequence of actions, the Content andRhetorical Status Selection system sub-network can be viewed as using, the inquiryresponses to produce the TRL structure shown in Figure 10. is Again, this process isnot the subject of this paper, but is mentioned to provide a more complete discussionof the data structures involved.The Grammatical Form Selection sub-networks can then be seen as operating onthe appropriate relations included in this representation a d producing the full TRLstructure shown in Figure 11.
TRL allows the Text Structure to include a representationof the hierarchical structure of the text in terms of RST, including both nucleus-satelliteand multi-nuclear schemata.
In addition, TRL specifies the textual order and clausecombining using additional New-Sentence and Continue-Sentence links.
For example,the Instruct, Grasp, Remove, and Pull nodes are all combined into one sentence inFigure 11.
Finally, TRL specifies the grammatical form of each action expression usingthree features that may be attached to expressible nodes in the structure.
The Formfeature specifies the general grammatical form.
For example, the Instruct is marked asPassive, indicating that the agentless passive should be used.
The Linker and Tensemarkers are also used to mark the appropriate linker and tense of the expression.The Sentence Builder then uses a straightforward ecursive descent algorithm toproduce an SPL command for each of the sentences in the TRL structure.
The generated15 Because the execution of the Content and Rhetorical Status Selection sub-network is interleaved withthe execution of the Grammatical Form Selection sub-networks, this structure alone would never existat any point in the execution of the network.
It is, rather, an illustrative view of what the Content andRhetorical Status Selection sub-network would realize if it were executed in isolation.49Computational Linguistics Volume 21, Number 1*TRL-Root*New-Sentence /Instruct- Remove- /~k"~ sN~icOe~~ AC~c ~o( ~~pqciiiie PAla~ieonl SequenceNew- ~ Nezo-Sentence New- Sentence New-Sentence SentenceFigure 10A hypothetical view of the output of the Content and Rhetorical Status Selection sub-systemfor the Remove-Phone text.
*TRL-Root* tntencela~ Precondition I PurposeInstruct-Action Return-Action Place-Action Form: Passive Purpose | Linker: When ~ i Form: Imperative Form: TNFTense: Present / ~'~ | ~ ~~?
Form: Imperative ~/r~ equence Continue-Continue- ~"  \[ ~?
~ SentenceSentence | ?
?
New-Grasp-Action Pull-Action tence \ Form: ing Form: ingContinue_N........~.
Linker: By Linker: andSentenceContinue-SentenceFigure 11The final Text Structure for the Remove-Phone t xt.text for this example is shown here:(13) When you are instructed, remove the phone by grasping the top of the handsetand pulling it.
Return to a seat to place a call.This text is identical to the original text with respect to the four lexical and gram-matical issues addressed here.
There are, however, a number of other lexical andphrasal differences, including the lexical items chosen for the object references and theuse of determiners.
These differences arise from the fact that the current study hasnot specifically addressed the issue of referring expressions.
Currently, IMAGENE usessimple algorithms for pronominalization a d determiners, which are not based on adetailed corpus study of the forms and functions of the object reference domain.
A50Keith Vander Linden and James H. Martin Expressing Rhetorical Relationsstudy of referring expressions, imilar to our work on expressing rhetorical relations,would allow the development of a more principled solution to this problem.5.4 More Examples of IMAGENE's OutputThis section includes examples of IMAGENE'S output for the fundamental relations dealtwith in the current study, that is, Purpose, Precondition, Result, and action Sequence.It is intended to demonstrate IMAGENE'S breadth of coverage and will not discuss thedetails of how the forms are motivated.Given the choice to express an action, rhetorically, as a purpose, IMAGENE is capableof producing seven grammatical forms for its expression, most of which can be eitherfronted or not fronted.
Here are the various forms, as generated by IMAGENE accordingto the distinctions discussed in the previous section:(14a)(14b)(14c)(14d)(14e)To end a call, hold down the FLASH button for two seconds, then release it.Follow steps in the illustration for desk installation.Use the OFF position for charging the batteries.Use the REDIAL for frequently busy numbers.When you are instructed, remove the phone by grasping the top of the handsetand pulling it.
(14f) Remove the phone.
Grasp the top of the handset, and pull it.
(14g) Tilt the pan so that the fluid drains out.Given the choice to express an action, rhetorically, as a precondition, IMAGENE iscapable of producing four grammatical forms for its expression, all of which can beeither fronted or not fronted and also linked with various lexical items.
Here are somerepresentative forms, as generated by IMAGENE:(15a) If light flashes, insert credit card.
(15b) The BATTERY LOW INDICATOR will light when the battery is low.
(15c) When the phone is installed, and the battery is~harged, move theOFF/STBY/TALK switch to the STBY position.
(15d) Return the OFF/STBY/TALK switch to the STBY position after your call.There are two types of results that IMAGENE supports.
The first type is non-readeractions that are not the result of an explicit command to monitor a particular devicestate.
IMAGENE expresses this type of result as a future tense clause, as seen in exam-ple (16a).
The second type is not based on an action in  the Process Structure at all,but rather, is a span added by the system networks to signal a state resulting from anexpressed action.
IMAGENE expresses these as present ense relational expressions, asseen in example (16b).
Here are examples of these forms:(16a)(16b)The BATTERY LOW INDICATOR will light when the battery is low.When the phone is installed, and the battery is charged, move theOFF/STBY/TALK switch to the STBY position.
The phone is now ready to use.51Computational Linguistics Volume 21, Number 1Simple sequential actions do not fit into the categories discussed above and aremarked as imperative commands.
These commands are combined into clauses by thesentence tools system network using and when the concurrency that could be impliedis impossible or inconsequential, s in example (140, or then when there is possibleunwanted concurrency, as in example (14a).6.
Verifying IMAGENE's PrescriptionsFinally, we compare the output of the text generator with the text in the corpus.
For thispurpose, IMAGENE'S system network was re-run for all of the approximately 600 actionexpressions, both those from the training set and those from the testing set.
Statisticswere kept on how well its realizations matched the expressions in the corpus.
16 Thesetests were performed without he Penman realization component engaged, comparingthe TRL output of the system network with the corpus text.
This way, the extensivelexicon that would have been necessary for the surface realization was not required.IMAGENE currently includes a domain model and lexical entries for cordless telephonesand a few other specific examples.The match was judged on four separate lexical and grammatical issues: linker,form, slot, and clause combining.
The resulting TRL structure had to specify the iden-tical linker (either preposition or conjunction), form (tense, aspect, mood, and voice, ornon-finite verb or nominalization), slot (textual order), and combining (if the expres-sion was combined with the following one).
An example of this verification processcan be found in Section 5.3, in which the IMAGENE-produced Remove-Phone t xt isshown to match the original text on all four of these issues.Note that the match must be exact.
For example, if IMAGENE specifies the con-junction and for a sequence xpression when then occurs in the text, the choice oflinker would be counted as incorrect, in spite of the fact that the resulting text mightbe quite understandable.
Note also that IMAGENE'S realizations may even be better insome cases than the text in the corpus.
Although the general philosophy of the ap-proach taken in the current study is to assume that the choices made by the writersof the corpus are correct, there are isolated cases ~in which the forms in the corpus areprobably inappropriate.
IMAGENE embodies choices that are consistently made over arange of instructions and thus does not reflect isolated examples.The analysis conducted in step 2 has been based primarily on a small subset of thefull corpus, namely on the instructions for a set of three cordless telephone manuals.This training set constitutes approximately 35% of our corpus.
The results of thisanalysis were then implemented in IMAGENE and applied to the full corpus, providinga detailed characterization f the instructions found in the original telephone manualsand a quantitative analysis of how well this characterization applies to the other formsof instructions.
IMAGENE's realizations correctly match all four lexical and grammaticalissues in 71% of the expressions in the training set and 52% in the testing set.
Thespecific levels of match for the four most common rhetorical relations are detailedin Figures 12 and 13.
There is one table for each of the major rhetorical relations,Purpose, Precondition, Result, and Sequence.
17These tables show the percentage of16 The training corpus included some non-procedural text that was included for a pilot study done beforethe focus on procedural text had been determined.
It is not handled particularly well by IMAGENE, andthe results given in this section will not include it.
The testing set is exclusively procedural and isincluded in full.17 Because there are relatively few concurrent expressions in our corpus, only 33, those results are notincluded in this section.52Keith Vander  L inden and  James H. Mart in  Expressing Rhetorical RelationsPurposes Preconditions100P90 er 80c 70e6O nt 5040M30 at 2Oc 10h01009080706050403020100~ ~9 [ ?
Training Set [ ]  Testing SetGrammatical Choice Type LFigure 12The accuracy of IMAGENE's real izations for Purpose and  Precondit ion expressions.IMAGENE'S realizations for linker, form, slot, and clause combining that matched thosein the corpus, differentiating between the training set and the testing set.
As can beseen in all of the charts, the level of match is better for the training set, but still goodfor the testing set.For purpose expressions, IMAGENE makes use of four different linkers (by, for, sothat, and no linker) and six different forms (to infinitive, imperative, nominalization,gerund, goal metonymy, and simple present tense action) and produces a match on allfour lexical and grammatical issues for 81% of the purpose xpressions in the trainingset and 59% in the testing set.
Figure 12 gives a breakdown of IMAGENE's accuracyfor the four lexical and grammatical issues.
To judge these results more fully, consideran alternative system that always generates the single most common purpose form.In our corpus, this is the fronted to infinitive, which occurred in 34% of the purposeexpressions.
TM Such a system would score 34% under the verification criteria used here.For precondition expressions, the most common form in our corpus is the frontedif present ense clause, which occurred in 19% of the 98 precondition expressions inthe corpus.
IMAGENE, which produces five linkers and nine forms, produces a matchfor 67% of the precondition expressions in the training set and 35% in the testing set.As can be seen in the precondition chart in Figure 12, IMAGENE's accuracy is lower forpreconditions than for purposes, particularly in the testing set.
This reflects the greaterdiversity of procedural contexts in which preconditions arise and the correspondingdiversity of the forms used to express them (see Vander Linden 1994).
Certainly, alarger training set is required here, but it is not clear at this point how much larger it18 Table 1 indicates 32%, but that would be for our corpus with the non-procedural portions of textincluded.
They have been removed here to remain consistent with the statistics hown in this section.53Computational LinguisticsResults100P 90er 80c 70e 6Ont 5040M30 at 20C lO h0(jr) OuGrammatical Choice Type1009080706050403020100Volume 21, Number 1SequenceI I 1 LE?
Training Set [ ]  Testing SetFigure 13The accuracy of IMAGENE's realizations for Result and Sequence expressions.should be.
IMAGENE'S accuracy for results and sequence xpressions i  similar to thatpresented for purposes and preconditions.
It is detailed in Figure 13.7.
ConclusionsThis paper has addressed the problem of determining the precise lexical and gram-matical forms for expressing procedural relations between actions in the context ofinstructional text generation.
The corpus-based methodology employed is well suitedfor this problem, providing both a principled means for cataloging the lexical andgrammatical forms that are consistently used in instructional text and an environmentfor testing and confirming hypotheses concerning the contextual issues that co-varywith these forms.The issues of procedural planning, user modeling, and content selection, althoughof unquestionable importance to the broad goal of generating instructions, were notspecifically addressed here.
The current study makes a number of prescriptions for thetype of information that such techniques would need to provide to the text plannerpursuant o the generation of instructional text, but says nothing about how theyshould be implemented in order to achieve this.There are two fundamental contributions of the current study to the field of com-putational linguistics.
The first is the analysis of instructional text itself.
The currentstudy has provided a characterization f certain aspects of instructional text that hasbeen effectively applied to the generation of instructional text in general.
This char-acterization is directly applicable to current work on instructional text, particularly inthe context of natural anguage generation.
The results can also serve as a source ofpreliminary hypotheses with respect o the analysis of other related genres.54Keith Vander Linden and James H. Martin Expressing Rhetorical RelationsThe second is the detailed presentation of a methodology for managing diversity ofexpression at the textual evel in the context of text generation.
The approach involvescollecting a suitable corpus of text, analyzing that text, implementing the results of theanalysis in a text generator, and verifying the output of the generator.
This approachis applicable not just to the problem of expressing procedural relations in instructionaltext, but rather to any lexical or grammatical aspect of any linguistic genre.AcknowledgmentsThis paper is based on earlier work donewith Susanna Cumming, whose approach tolanguage study has inspired much of whatwe have done here.
We also receivedvaluable comments from the ComputationalLinguistics referees and from members ofthe ITRI Computational Linguistics group,including Tony Hartley, C6cile Paris,Richard Power, and Donia Scott.
This workwas supported by the National ScienceFoundation under Contract No.
IRI-9109859.ReferencesAirfone (1991).
Inflight Entertainment &Information Guide.
United Airlines.Allen, J. E (1987).
Natural LanguageUnderstanding.
Menlo Park, California:Benjamin / Cummings.Balkanski, C. T. (1992).
"Actions, beliefs andintentions in rationale clauses and meansclauses."
In Tenth National Conference onArtificial Intelligence, July 12-16, San Jose,California.Balkanski, C. T. (1993).
"Actions, beliefs andintentions in multi-action utterances.
"Doctoral dissertation, Harvard University,Cambridge, Massachusetts.Berry, M. (1981).
"Towards layers ofexchange structure for directiveexchanges."
Network 2:23-32.Church, K. W., and Mercer, R. L.
(1993).
"Introduction to the special issue oncomputational linguistics using largecorpora."
Computational Linguistics19(1):1-24.Code-a-phone (1989).
Code-A-Phone Owner'sGuide.
Code-A-Phone Corporation, P.O.Box 5678, Portland, OR 97228.Crothers, E. (1979).
Paragraph StructureInference.
Norwood, New Jersey: Ablex.Cumming, S. (1990).
"Natural discoursehypothesis engine."
In Proceedings, FifthInternational Workshop on Natural LanguageGeneration, June 3-6, Dawson,Pennsylvania, edited by K. R. McKeown,J.
D. Moore, and S. Nirenburg.Cumming, S. (1991).
"Nominalization iEnglish and the organization ofgrammars."
In Proceedings, the IJCAI-91Workshop on Decision Making Throughout theGeneration Process, August 24-25, DarlingHarbor, Sydney, Australia.Dale, R. (1992).
Generating ReferringExpressions: Constructing Descriptions inaDomain of Objects and Processes.Cambridge: MIT Press.Dale, R. (1993).
"Rhetoric and intentions indiscourse."
In Proceedings, Workshop onIntentionality and Structure in DiscourseRelations, June 21, Columbus, Ohio, editedby O. Rambow.
5-6.Delin, J., Scott, D., and Hartley, T.
(1993).
"Knowledge, intention, rhetoric: Levels ofvariation in multilingual instructions."
InProceedings, Workshop on Intentionality andStructure in Discourse Relations, June 21,Columbus, Ohio, 7-10.Di Eugenio, B.
(1992).
"Understandingnatural language instructions: The case ofpurpose clauses."
In Proceedings, AnnualMeeting of Association for ComputationalLinguistics, Newark, Delaware.
120-127.Di Eugenio, B.
(1993).
"UnderstandingNatural Language Instructions:A Computational Approach to PurposeClauses."
Doctoral dissertation,University of Pennsylvania.
Alsoavailable as IRCS Report 93-52.Dixon, P. (1987).
"Actions and proceduraldirections."
In Coherence and Grounding inDiscourse, edited by R. S. Tomlin, 69-89.Los Angeles: John Benjamins Publishing.Outcome of a symposium, June 1984,Eugene, Oregon.Excursion (1989).
Excursion 3100.Northwestern Bell Phones, A USWestCompany.Fawcett, R. P. (1990).
"The COMMUNALproject: Two years old and going well.
"Network 13/14:35-39.Goldman, A. I.
(1970).
A Theory of HumanAction.
Englewood Cliffs, New Jersey:Prentice Hall.Grosz, B. J., and Sidner, C. L.
(1986).
"Attention, intentions, and the structureof discourse."
Computational Linguistics12(3):175-204.Halliday, M. A. K. (1976).
System andFunction in Language, dited byG.
R. Kress.
London: Oxford UniversityPress.Halliday, M. A. K. (1985).
An Introduction to55Computational Linguistics Volume 21, Number 1Functional Grammar.
London: EdwardArnold.Hovy, E. H. (1987).
"What makes languageformal?"
In Proceedings, Ninth AnnualConference ofthe Cognitive Science Society,Seattle, Washington.
959-964.
PosterSession.Hovy, E. H. (1988a).
Generating NaturalLanguage under Pragmatic Constraints.Hillsdale, New Jersey: Lawrence ErlbaumAssociates.Hovy, E. H. (1988b).
"Planning coherentmultisentential text."
In Proceedings, 26thAnnual Meeting of the Association forComputational Linguistics, July 7-10, StateUniversity of New York, Buffalo, NewYork.Hovy, E. H., and McCoy, K. E (1989).
"Focusing your RST: A step towardgenerating coherent multisentential text.
"In Program of the 11th Annual Conference ofthe Cognitive Science Society, August 16-17,Ann Arbor, Michigan.
Hillsdale, NewJersey: Lawrence Erlbaum Associates.Huettner, A. K., Vaughan, M. M., andMcDonald, D. D. (1987).
"Constraints onthe generation of adjunct clauses."
InProceedings, 25th Annual Meeting ofAssociation for Computational Linguistics,Stanford, California.
207-214.Kasper, R. T. (1989).
"A flexible interface forlinking applications to Penman's entencegenerator."
In Proceedings, DARPA Speechand Natural Language Workshop,Philadelphia.Kittredge, R., Korelsky, T., and Rambow, O.(1991).
"On the need for domaincommunication k owledge.
"Computational Intelligence 7(4):305-314.Loom (1993).
The LOOM Documentation.USC Information Sciences Institute.MacGregor, R., and Bates, R. (1987).
"TheLOOM knowledge representationlanguage."
In Proceedings, Knowledge-BasedSystems Workshop, April 21-23, St. Louis,Missouri.
Also available as USC/ISITechnical Report RS-87-188.Macintosh (1988).
Macintosh System SoftwareUser's Guide: Version 6.0.
Apple Computer,Inc.Mann, W. C. (1985).
"An introduction to theNigel text generation grammar."
InSystemic Perspectives on Discourse,volume 1, edited by J. D. Benson,R.
O. Freedle, and W. S. Greaves, 84-95.Mann, W. C., and Thompson, S. A.
(1987).
"Rhetorical structure theory: A theory oftext organization."
Technical ReportISI/RS-87-190, USC/ISI.Mann, W. C., and Thompson, S. A.
(1988).
"Rhetorical structure theory: Toward afunctional theory of text organization.
"Text: An Interdisciplinary Journal for theStudy of Text 8(2):243-281.Matthiessen, C. M. I. M., and Thompson,S.
A.
(1987).
"The structure of discourseand 'subordination'."
In Clause Combiningin Grammar and Discourse, edited byJ.
Haiman and S. Thompson, 275-329.
LosAngeles: John Benjamins Publishing.McKeown, K. R. (1985).
Text Generation.New York: Cambridge University Press.McKeown, K. R.; Elhadad, M.; Fukumoto,Y.
; Lim, J.; Lombardi, C.; Robin, J.; andSmadja, F. (1990).
"Natural anguagegeneration i  COMET."
In CurrentResearch in Natural Language Generation,edited by R. Dale, C. Mellish, andM.
Zock, chapter 5.
New York: AcademicPress.Mellish, C., and Evans, R. (1989).
"Naturallanguage generation from plans.
"Computational Linguistics 15(4):233-249.Meteer, M. W. (1991).
"Bridging thegeneration gap between text planningand linguistic realization."
ComputationalIntelligence 7(4):296-304.Meteer, M. W. (1992).
Expressibility and theProblem of Efficient Text Planning.
London:Pinter Publishers.Mooney, D. J.; Carberry, S.; and McCoy,K.
E (1991).
"Capturing high-levelstructure of naturally occurring, extendedexplanation using bottom-up strategies.
"Computational Intelligence 7(4):334-356.Moore, J. D., and Paris, C. L.
(1988).
"Constructing coherent text usingrhetorical relations."
In Proceedings, TenthAnnual Conference ofthe Cognitive ScienceSociety, August 17-19, Montreal, Quebec.637-643.Moore, J. D., and Pollack, M. E. (1992).
"Aproblem for RST: The need for multi-leveldiscourse analysis."
ComputationalLinguistics 18(4):537-544.Paris, C. (1993).
User Modelling in TextGeneration.
London: Pinter Publishing.Paris, C. L. (1988).
"Tailoring objectdescriptions to a user's level of expertise.
"Computational Linguistics 14(3):64-78.Patten, T. (1988).
Systemic Text Generation asProblem Solving.
New York: CambridgeUniversity Press.Penman (1989).
The Penman Documentation.USC Information Sciences Institute,Penman Natural Language Group.Quinlan, J. R. (1986).
"Induction of decisiontrees."
Machine Learning 1:81-106.Quirk, R., Greenbaum, S., Leech, G., andSvartvik, J.
(1985).
A ComprehensiveGrammar of the English Language.
London:Longman.56Keith Vander Linden and James H. Martin Expressing Rhetorical RelationsReader's Digest (1981).
Reader's DigestComplete Car Care Manual.
Pleasantville,New York: The Reader's DigestAssociation, Inc.Rosenberg, S. N. (1985).
The Johnson andJohnson First Aid Book, pages 17, 95, 101,129.
Johnson and Johnson.R6sner, D., and Stede, M.
(1992a).
"Customizing RST for the automaticproduction of technical manuals."
InAspects of Automated Natural LanguageGeneration, Lecture Notes in ArtificialIntelligence 587, edited by R. Dale,E.
Hovy, D. R6esner, and O. Stock,199-214.
Berlin: Springer Verlag.R6sner, D., and Stede, M.
(1992b).
"TECHDOC: A system for the automaticproduction of multilingual technicaldocuments."
In Proceedings, KONVENS-92,Berlin: Springer.
Also available asTechnical Report FAW-TR-92021, FAW,Ulm, Germany.Scott, D. R., and Souza, C. (1990).
"Gettingthe message across in RST-based textgeneration."
In Current Research in NaturalLanguage Generation, edited by R. Dale,C.
Mellish, and M. Zock, Chapter 3.
NewYork: Academic Press.Tate, A.
(1976).
Project Planning Using aHierarchical Non-Linear Planner.
Doctoraldissertation, University of Edinburgh.Dissertation Abstracts InternationalReport 25.Thompson, S. A.
(1985).
"Grammar andwritten discourse: Initial and finalpurpose clauses in English."
Text5(1,2):55-84.Thompson, S. A.
(1987).
"Subordination"and narrative vent structure."
InCoherence and Grounding in Discourse,edited by R. S. Tomlin, 435-454.Amsterdam: John Benjamins Publishing.Outcome of a Symposium, Eugene,Oregon, June, 1984, and published asvol.
11 of the series Typological Studies inLanguage.Vander Linden, K. (1993a).
"Generatingeffective instructions."
In Proceedings, 15thAnnual Conference ofthe Cognitive ScienceSociety, June 18-21, Boulder, Colorado.1023-1028.Vander Linden, K. (1993b).
"Rhetoricalrelations in instructional text generation.
"In Proceedings, Workshop on Intentionalityand Structure in Discourse Relations,June 21, Columbus, Ohio, edited byO.
Rambow.
140-143.Vander Linden, K. (1993c).
Speaking ofActions: Choosing Rhetorical Status andGrammatical Form in Instructional TextGeneration.
Doctoral dissertation,University of Colorado.
Also available asTechnical Report CU-CS-654-93.Vander Linden, K. (1994).
Generatingprecondition expressions in instructionaltext.
In Proceedings, 32nd Annual Meeting ofAssociation for Computational Linguistics,June 27-July 1, Las Cruces, New Mexico.42-49.Winograd, T. (1983).
Language as a CognitiveProcess, Volume 1: Syntax.
Reading,Massachusetts: Addison-Wesley.57
