Centering: A Framework for Modeling theLocal Coherence of DiscourseBarbara J. Grosz*Harvard UniversityScott Weinstein ~University of PennsylvaniaAravind K. Joshi tUniversity of PennsylvaniaThis paper concerns relationships among focus of attention, choice of referring expression, andperceived coherence ofutterances within a discourse segment.
It presents aframework and ini-tial theory of centering intended to model the local component of attentional state.
The paperexamines interactions between local coherence and choice of referring expressions; it argues thatdifferences in coherence correspond in part to the inference demands made by different ypes ofreferring expressions, given a particular attentional state.
It demonstrates that the attentionalstate properties modeled by centering can account for these differences.PrefaceOur original paper (Grosz, Joshi, and Weinstein 1983) on centering claimed that certainentities mentioned in an utterance were more central than others and that this propertyimposed constraints on a speaker's use of different types of referring expressions.Centering was proposed as a model that accounted for this phenomenon.
We arguedthat the coherence of discourse was affected by the compatibility between centeringproperties of an utterance and choice of referring expression.
Subsequently, we revisedand expanded the ideas presented therein.
We defined various centering constructsand proposed two centering rules in terms of these constructs.
A draft manuscriptdescribing this elaborated centering framework and presenting some initial theoreticalclaims has been in wide circulation since 1986.
This draft (Grosz, Joshi, and Weinstein1986) has led to a number of papers by others on this topic and has been extensivelycited, but has never been published.
1We have been urged to publish the more detailed description of the centeringframework and theory proposed in Grosz, Joshi, and Weinstein (1986) so that an of-ficial version would be archivally available.
The task of completing and revising thisdraft became more daunting as time passed and more and more papers appeared oncentering.
Many of these papers proposed extensions to or revisions of the theoryand attempted to answer questions posed in Grosz, Joshi, and Weinstein (1986).
It hasbecome ever more clear that it would be useful to have a "definitive" statement of* Division of Applied Sciences, Harvard University, Cambridge, MA.
E-mail: grosz@das.harvard.edu.t Computer and Information Science, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA.
E-mail:joshi@linc.cis.upenn.edu.
:~ Department ofPhilosophy, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA. E-mail:weinstei@linc.cis.upenn.edu.1 Early drafts of Grosz, Joshi, and Weinstein (1986) were in circulation from 1983.
Some citations to otherwork have dates between 1983 and 1986.
This work utilized these arlier drafts.
@ 1995 Association for Computational LinguisticsComputational Linguistics Volume 21, Number 2the original motivations for centering, the basic definitions underlying the centeringframework, and the original theoretical claims.
This paper attempts to meet that need.To accomplish this goal, we have chosen to remove descriptions of many open researchquestions posed in Grosz, Joshi, and Weinstein (1986) as well as solutions that wereonly partially developed.
We have also greatly shortened the discussion of criteria forand constraints on a possible semantic theory as a foundation for this work.1.
IntroductionThis paper presents an initial attempt o develop a theory that relates focus of atten-tion, choice of referring expression, and perceived coherence of utterances within adiscourse segment.
The research described here is a further development of severalstrands of previous research.
It fits within a larger effort to provide an overall theoryof discourse structure and meaning.
In this section we describe the larger researchcontext of this work and then briefly discuss the previous work that led to it.Centering fits within the theory of discourse structure developed by Grosz andSidner (1986).
Grosz and Sidner distinguish among three components of discoursestructure: a linguistic structure, an intentional structure, and an attentional state.
Atthe level of linguistic structure, discourses divide into constituent discourse segments;an embedding relationship may hold between two segments.
The intentional struc-ture comprises intentions and relations among them.
The intentions provide the basicrationale for the discourse, and the relations represent the connections among these in-tentions.
Attentional state models the discourse participants' focus of attention at anygiven point in the discourse.
Changes in attentional state depend on the intentionalstructure and on properties of the utterances in the linguistic structure.Each discourse segment exhibits both local coherence--i.e., coherence among theutterances in that segment--and global coherence--i.e., coherence with other segmentsin the discourse.
Corresponding tothese two levels of coherence are two components ofattentional state; the local level models changes in attentional state within a discoursesegment, and the global level models attentional state properties at the intersegmentallevel.Grosz and Sidner argue that global coherence depends on the intentional structure.They propose that each discourse has an overall communicative purpose, the discoursepurpose (DP); and each discourse segment has an associated intention, its discoursesegment purpose (DSP).
The DP and DSP are speaker intentions; they are correlates atthe discourse level of the intentions Grice argued underlay utterance meaning (Grice1969).
If a discourse is multi-party (e.g., a dialogue), then the DSP for a given segmentis an intention of the conversational participant who initiates that segment.
Lochbaum(1994) employs collaborative plans (Grosz and Kraus 1993) to model intentional struc-ture, and is thus able to integrate intentions of different participants.
Satisfaction of theDSPs contributes to the satisfaction of the DP.
Relationships between DSPs provide thebasic structural relationships for the discourse; embeddings in the linguistic structureare derived from these relationships.
The global coherence of a discourse depends onrelationships among its DP and DSPs.
Grosz and Sidner model the global-level com-ponent of the attentional state with a stack; pushes and pops of focus spaces on thestack depend on intentional relationships.This paper is concerned with local coherence and its relationship to attentionalstate at the local level.
Centering is proposed as a model of the local-level componentof attentional state.
We examine the interactions between local coherence and choicesof referring expressions, and argue that differences in coherence correspond in part tothe different demands for inference made by different ypes of referring expressions,204Barbara J. Grosz et al Centeringgiven a particular attentional state.
We describe how the attentional state propertiesmodeled by centering can account for these differences.Three pieces of previous research provide the background for this work.
Grosz(1977) defined two levels of focusing in discourse: global and immediate.
Participantswere said to be globally focused on a set of entities relevant o the overall discourse.These entities may either have been explicitly introduced into the discourse or suffi-ciently closely related to such entities to be considered implicitly in focus (Grosz 1981).In contrast, immediate focusing referred to a more local focusing process--one thatrelates to identifying the entity that an individual utterance most centrally concerns.Sidner (1979) provided a detailed analysis of immediate focusing, including adistinction between the current discourse focus and potential foci.
She gave algorithmsfor tracking immediate focus and rules that stated how the immediate focus could beused to identify the referents of pronouns and demonstrative noun phrases (e.g., "thisparty, .... that party").Joshi and Kuhn (1979) and Joshi and Weinstein (1981) provided initial results onthe connection between changes in immediate focus and the complexity of inferencesrequired to integrate a representation f the meaning of an individual utterance intoa representation of the meaning of the discourse of which it was a part.
To avoidconfusion with previous uses of the term "focus" in linguistics, they introduced thecentering terminology.
Their notions of "forward-looking" and "backward-looking"centers correspond approximately to Sidner's potential foci and discourse focus.In all of this work, focusing, whether global or immediate, was seen to function tolimit the inferences required for understanding utterances in a discourse.
Grosz andSidner were concerned with the inferences needed to interpret anaphoric expressionsof various sorts (e.g.
pronouns, definite descriptions, ellipsis).
They used focusing toorder candidates; as a result the need for search was greatly reduced and the useof inference could be restricted to determining whether a particular candidate wasappropriate given the embedding utterance interpretation.
Joshi, Kuhn, and Weinsteinwere concerned with reducing the inferences required to integrate utterance meaninginto discourse meaning.
They used centering to determine an almost monadic predicaterepresentation f an utterance in discourse; they then used this representation to reducethe complexity of inference.In this paper, we generalize and clarify certain of Sidner's results, but adopt the"centering" terminology.
We also abstract from Sidner's focusing algorithm to specifyconstraints on the centering process.
We consider the relationship between coherenceand inference load and examine how both interact with attentional state and choicesin linguistic expression.The remainder of this paper is organized as follows: in Section 2, we briefly de-scribe the phenomena motivating the development of centering that this paper aimsto explain.
Section 3 provides the basic definitions of centers and related definitionsneeded to present he theoretical claims of the paper.
In Section 4, we state the mainproperties of the centering framework and the major claims of centering theory.
InSection 5, we discuss several factors that affect centering constraints and govern thecentering rules given in Section 6.
In Section 7, we discuss applications of the rulesand their ability to explain several discourse coherence phenomena.
In Section 8, webriefly outline the properties of an underlying semantic framework that are requiredby centering.
Finally, in Section 9 we conclude with a brief comparison of center-ing with the research that preceded it and a summary of research that expands onGrosz, Joshi, and Weinstein (1986).
In particular, Section 9 provides references to sub-sequent investigations of additional factors that control centering and examinations ofits crossqinguistic applicability and empirical validity.205Computational Linguistics Volume 21, Number 22.
Phenomena To Be ExplainedDiscourses are more than mere sequences of utterances.
For a sequence of utterancesto be a discourse, it must exhibit coherence.
In this paper, we investigate linguisticand attentional state factors that contribute to coherence among utterances within adiscourse segment.
These factors contribute to the difference in coherence between thefollowing two discourse segments: 2(1) a. John went to his favorite music store to buy a piano.b.
He had frequented the store for many years.c.
He was excited that he could finally buy a piano.d.
He arrived just as the store was closing for the day.
(2) a. John went to his favorite music store to buy a piano.b.
It was a store John had frequented for many years.c.
He was excited that he could finally buy a piano.d.
It was closing just as John arrived.Discourse (1) is intuitively more coherent than Discourse (2).
This difference maybe seen to arise from different degrees of continuity in what the discourse is about.Discourse (1) centers around a single individual, describing various actions he tookand his reactions to them.
In contrast, Discourse (2) seems to flip back and forth amongseveral different entities.More specifically, the initial utterance (a) in each segment could begin a segmentabout an individual named 'John' or one about John's favorite music store or oneabout the fact that John wants to buy a piano.Whereas Discourse (1) is clearly about John, Discourse (2) has no single clearcenter of attention.
Utterance (2b) seems to be about the store.
If a reader inferredthat utterance (2a) was about John, then that reader would perceive a change in theentity which the discourse seems to be about in going from (2a) to (2b); on the otherhand, if the reader took (2a) to be about the store then in going to (2b), there is nochange.
In either case, in utterance (2c) John seems to be central, requiring a shift fromutterance (2b), while the store becomes central again in utterance (2d), requiring yetanother shift.
This changing of 'aboutness' (in fact, flipping it back and forth) makesdiscourse (2) less coherent than discourse (1).Discourses (1) and (2) convey the same information, but in different ways.
Theydiffer not in content or what is said, but in expression or how it is said.
The variation in'aboutness' they exhibit arises from different choices of the way in which they expressthe same propositional content.
The differences can only be explained, however, bylooking beyond the surface form of the utterances in the discourse; different types ofreferring expressions and different syntactic forms make different inference demandson a hearer or reader.
These differences in inference load underlie certain differences2 This example and the others in this paper are single-speaker texts.
However, centering also applies todialogue and multi-party conversations.
I sues of the interaction between turn-taking and changes incentering status remain to be investigated.206Barbara J. Grosz et al Centeringin coherence.
The model of local attentional state described in this paper provides abasis for explaining these differences.Thus, the focus of our investigation is on interactions among choice of referringexpression, attentional state, the inferences required to determine the interpretation ofan utterance in a discourse segment, and coherence.
Pronouns and definite descriptionsare not equivalent with respect o their effect on coherence.
We conjecture that this isso because they engender different inferences on the part of a hearer or reader.
In themost pronounced cases, the wrong choice will mislead a hearer and force backtrackingto a correct interpretation.
3 The following variations of a discourse sequence illustratethis problem and provide additional evidence for our conjecture.
(3) a. Terry really goofs sometimes.b.
Yesterday was a beautiful day and he was excited about trying outhis new sailboat.c.
He wanted Tony to join him on a sailing expedition.d.
He called him at 6 AM.e.
He was sick and furious at being woken up so early.By using a pronoun to refer to Tony in utterance (e) the speaker may confuse thehearer.
Through utterance (d) Terry has been the center of attention, and hence is themost likely referent of "he" in utterance (e).
It is only when one gets to the word"sick" that it is clear that it must be Tony and not Terry who is sick, and hence thatthe pronoun in utterance (e) refers to Tony not Terry.
A much more natural sequenceresults if "Tony" is used, as the sequence (4a)-(4e) illustrates.
(4) a. Terry really goofs sometimes.b.
Yesterday was a beautiful day and he was excited about trying outhis new sailboat.c.
He wanted Tony to join him on a sailing expedition.d.
He called him at 6 AM.e.
Tony was sick and furious at being woken up so early.f.
He told Terry to get lost and hung up.g.
Of course, he hadn't intended to upset Tony.In Discourse (4), utterances (f) and (g) exhibit the same kind of misdirection as doutterances (3d) and (3e) in Discourse (3).
The focus has shifted from Terry to Tony inthe short subsegment of utterances (e)-(f) so that use of "he" in (g) is confusing.
Thisconfusion is avoided in the sequence of Discourse (5).
(5) a. Terry really goofs sometimes.b.
Yesterday was a beautiful day and he was excited about trying outhis new sailboat.3 We presume utterances are processed in left-to-right order, and that speakers make initial assignmentsof referent and meaning that may have to be retracted if material coming later in the sentence conflicts.207Computational Linguistics Volume 21, Number 2c.
He wanted Tony to join him on a sailing expedition.d.
He called him at 6 AM.e.
Tony was sick and furious at being woken up so early.f.
He told Terry to get lost and hung up.g.
Of course, Terry hadn't intended to upset Tony.We conjecture that the form of expression in a discourse substantially affects the re-source demands made upon a hearer in discourse processing and through this influ-ences the perceived coherence of the discourse.
It is well known from the study ofcomplexity theory that the manner in which a class of problems is represented cansignificantly affect he time or space resources required by any procedure that solvesthe problem.
Here too we conjecture that the manner, i.e., linguistic form, in whicha discourse represents a particular propositional content can affect the resources re-quired by any procedure that processes that discourse.
We use the phrase inference loadplaced upon the hearer to refer to the resources required to extract information from adiscourse because of particular choices of linguistic expression used in the discourse.We conjecture that one psychological reflex of this inference load is a difference inperceived coherence among discourses that express the same propositional contentusing different linguistic forms.One of the tasks a hearer must perform in processing a discourse is to identifythe referents of noun phrases in the discourse.
It is commonly accepted, and is a hy-pothesis under which our work on centering proceeds, that a hearer's determinationof noun phrase reference involves ome process of inference.
Hence a particular claimof centering theory is that the resource demands of this inference process are affectedby the form of expression of the noun phrase.
In Section 7, we discuss the effect on per-ceived coherence of the use of pronouns and definite descriptions by relating differentchoices to the inferences they require the hearer or reader to make.3.
Basic Center Def in i t ionsWe use the term centers of an utterance to refer to those entities erving to link thatutterance to other utterances in the discourse segment that contains it.
It is an utterance(i.e., the uttering of a sequence of words at a certain point in the discourse) andnot a sentence in isolation that has centers.
The same sentence uttered in differentdiscourse situations may have different centers.
Centers are thus discourse constructs.Furthermore, centers are semantic objects, not words, phrases, or syntactic forms.Each utterance U in a discourse segment (DS) is assigned a set of forward-lookingcenters, Cf(U, DS); each utterance other than the segment initial utterance is assigneda single backward-looking center, Cb(U, DS).
To simplify notation, when the relevantdiscourse segment is clear, we will drop the associated DS and use CB(U) and Cf(U).The backward-looking center of utterance Un+l connects with one of the forward-looking centers of utterance Un.
The connection between the backward-looking centerof utterance Un+ 1 and the forward-looking centers of utterance Un may be of severaltypes.
To describe these types, we need to introduce two new relations, realizes anddirectly realizes, that relate centers to linguistic expressions.We will say thatU directly realizes c208Barbara J. Grosz et al Centeringif U is an utterance of some phrase 4for which c is the semantic interpretation.
Realizesis a general izat ion of directly realizes.
This general izat ion is important  for captur ingcertain regularities in the use of definite descr ipt ions and pronouns.The precise definit ion ofU realizes cdepends  on the semantic theory one adopts, s One feature that dist inguishes centeringfrom other treatments of related discourse phenomena is that the realization relationcombines yntactic, semantic, discourse, and intentional factors.
That is, the centers ofan utterance in general, and the backward- look ing center specifically, are determinedon the basis of a combinat ion of properties of the utterance, the discourse segment inwhich it occurs, and various aspects of the cognit ive state of the participants of thatdiscourse.Thus, for a semantic theory to support  centering, it must  provide an adequatebasis for comput ing  the realization relation.
For example, NP directly realizes c mayhold in cases where NP is a definite descript ion and c is its denotation, its value-freeinterpretation (discussed in Section 8), or an object related to it by "speaker 's  reference"(Kripke 1977).
More importantly, when NP is a pronoun,  the principles that determinethe c's for which it is the case that NP directly realizes c do not derive exclusively fromsyntactic, semantic, or pragmatic  factors.
They are principles that must  be elicited fromthe study of discourse itself.
An  initial formulat ion of some such principles is givenin Section 8.
6The forward- looking centers of Un depend only on the expressions that constitutethat utterance; they are not constrained by features of any previous utterance in thesegment.
The elements of CdUn) are partial ly ordered to reflect relative prominencein Un.
In Section 5, we discuss a number  of factors that may affect the order ing on theelements of Ct.
The more highly ranked an element of CdUn ), the more likely it is tobe Cb(Un+l).
The most  highly ranked element of Cf(U~) that is realized in Un+I is theCB (U~+l).
Because Ct(U~) is only partial ly ordered, some elements may, f rom Cf(Un)information alone, be equal ly likely to be CB (Un+l).
In such cases, addit ional criteria areneeded for deciding which single entity is the Cb(Un+l).
Some recent psychol inguist icevidence suggests that the syntactic role in Un+I may determine this choice (Gordon,Grosz, and Gil l iom 1993).In the remainder of the paper  we will use a notat ion such that the elements ofCt are ranked in the order in which they are listed.
7 In particular, for presentational4 U need not be a full clause.
We use U here to stress again that it is the utterance, not the string ofwords.5 In the original manuscript, we defined realize in terms of situation semantics (Barwise and Perry 1983)and said the relation held "if either c is an element of the situation described by the utterance U or c isdirectly realized by some subpart of U."
We discuss this further in Section 7.6 In the examples in this paper, we will be concerned with the realization relationship that holdsbetween a center and a singular definite noun phrase; i.e., cases where an NP directly realizes a center c.Several extensions to the theory presented here are needed to handle plural, quantified noun phrasesand indefinites.
It is also important to note that not all noun phrases in an utterance contribute centersto Cf(U) and not only noun phrases do so.
More generally, events and other entities that are moreoften directly realized by verb phrases can also be centers, whereas negated noun phrases typically donot contribute centers; the study of these issues is, however, beyond the scope of this paper.7 To simplify the presentation i the remainder of this paper, we will assume in most of the discussionthat there is a total order with strict ordering between any two elements; at those places where thepartial ordering makes a significant difference we will discuss that.209Computational Linguistics Volume 21, Number 2purposes, we will use the following schematic to refer to the centers of utterances ina sequence:For Un: Cb(Un) = a, Cf(Un) -- (el, e2, .
.
.ep) ,  a = ek, for some k.For Un+t: Cb(Unq-1) realizes ern and, for all j, j < m, e} is not real-ized in Un+l; i.e., em is realized in Un+l, and no higher ranked ej isrealized in U~+I.Finally, we also define three types of transition relations across pairs of utterances....CENTER CONTINUATION: Cb(Un+l)= Cb(Un), and this entity is the mosthighly ranked element of Cf(Un+l).
In this case, Cb(Un+t) is the mostlikely candidate for Cb(Un+2)) it continues to be Cb in Un+l, andcontinues to be likely to fill that role in Un+2.CENTER RETAINING: Cb(Un+l) ~- Cb(Un), but this entity is not the mosthighly ranked element in Cf(Un+l)- In this case, Cb(Un+l) is not the mostlikely candidate for Cb(Un+2); although it is retained as Cb in Un+t, it isnot likely to fill that role in Un+2.CENTER SHIFTING: Cb(Un+l) ~ Cb(Un).The coherence of a segment is affected by the kinds of centering transitions engen-dered by a speaker's choices of linguistic realizations in the utterances constitutingthe segment.
Of particular concern are choices among (1) CONTINUATION of the centerfrom one utterance not only to the next, but also to subsequent utterances; (2) RE-TENTION of the center from one utterance to the next; (3) SHIFTING the center, if it isneither etained nor continued, s4.
Claims of Centering TheoryThe centering framework described above provides the basis for stating a number ofspecific laims about he relationship between discourse coherence, inference load, andchoice of referring expression.
Underlying these claims is the most fundamental claimof centering theory, that to the extent a discourse adheres to centering constraints, itscoherence will increase and the inference load placed upon the hearer will decrease.We briefly list several major claims in this section, and elaborate on the evidence ormotivation for each in subsequent sections.?
A unique Cb: Each Un has exactly one backward-looking center.
It mightbe thought hat a more general definition would allow for multiplebackward-looking centers as well as multiple forward-looking centers.However, this is not the case, as we show in Section 5.?
Ranking of Ct: The Cf elements are partially ordered according to anumber of factors.
Several of the factors posited to affect his orderingare discussed in Section 5, but the full set of factors remains to bedetermined.
Ranking of elements in Cf(Un) guides determination f8 Shifting of the center does not in itself mark a discourse segment boundary.
The center may shiftwithin a single segment.210Barbara J. Grosz et al CenteringCb(Un+l), because Cf(Un) is only partially ordered, additional factorsmay constrain the choice.
9?
Centering constrains realization possibilities: Rule 1, discussed inSection 6, stipulates one constraint centering imposes on realization.
Weexpect hat other such constraints exist.?
Preferences among sequences of center transitions: Rule 2, discussed inSection 6, hypothesizes a preference among types of transitions.?
Primacy of partial information: The information eeded to compute acomplete unique interpretation for an utterance may not be availableuntil subsequent u terances are produced.
Thus, as discussed inSection 8, to support centering, a semantic theory must support heconstruction of partial interpretations, in particular for elements of Cf.?
Locality of Cb(Un): The choice of a backward-looking center for anutterance Un is from the set of forward-looking centers of the previousutterance Un-> In this sense the Cb is strictly local.
Cb(Un) cannot befrom Cf(U,_2) or other prior sets of forward-looking centers.
1??
Centering is controlled by a combination of discourse factors: Centerdetermination is not solely a syntactic, semantic, or pragmatic process.5.
Factors Governing CenteringBefore we can examine the linguistic features that contribute to an entity's being thebackward-looking center of an utterance, it is necessary to provide support for theclaim that there is only a single backward-looking center.
In the definitions in Section 3,there is a basic asymmetry between the Cf, which is a set, and the Cb, which is asingleton.
Sequences like those in (6) seem to suggest hat there might be multipleCb's, analogous to the partially ordered set of Cf's.
A priori there is no reason to thinkthat either Susan or Betsy alone is the Cb of utterance (6b).
(6) a. Susan gave Betsy a pet hamster.b.
She reminded her that such hamsters were quite shy.However, if we consider different subsequent u terances, it becomes clear that Susanand Betsy do not have an equivalent status in the second utterance.
The ranking ofthe Cr's matters.
The variants (7)-(10) differ only in their choice of realization of Susanand Betsy, in particular in which is pronominalized and which is in subject position.
(7) a. Susan gave Betsy a pet hamster.b.
She reminded her that such hamsters were quite shy.c.
She asked Betsy whether she liked the gift.
(8) a. Susan gave Betsy a pet hamster.9 This point is connected with the discussion of partial ordering in Section 3.10 It may appear that Cb(Un ) comes from Cf(Un-2) or prior sets of forward-looking centers, but then it isonly because it is in Cf(Un-1) also.211Computational Linguistics Volume 21, Number 2(9)b.
She reminded her that such hamsters were quite shy.c.
Betsy told her that she really liked the gift.a.
Susan gave Betsy a pet hamster.b.
She reminded her that such hamsters were quite shy.c.
Susan asked her whether she liked the gift.
(10) a. Susan gave Betsy a pet hamster.b.
She reminded her that such hamsters were quite shy.c.
She told Susan that she really liked the gift.If both Susan and Betsy were equally likely backward-looking centers in the secondutterance of these sequences, then all of these variants would be equally good or,perhaps, there would be a preference for variants (7) and (9), which exhibit continuityof grammatical subject and object.
However, this is not the case.
There is a markeddecrease in acceptability from version (7) to version (10), and for many people version(10) is completely unacceptable.The problem is not merely a change from a pronoun back to a proper name, asthis happens to the same extent in all four variants.
It also cannot be attributed solelyto a change from grammatical subject o grammatical object position, as variant (8)involves such a change and yet is better than variant (9), which does not.
Rather, itmust be the case that Susan is the CB at utterance (b) at each of the variants.
Variants (9)and (10) can be shown to be worse than (7) and (8) because they violate the centeringrules presented in the next section.This example suggests that pronominalization and subject position are possiblelinguistic mechanisms for establishing and continuing some entity as the CB.
In thesecond utterance of these sequences, Susan is realized by a pronoun in subject position;'she' is the CB of this utterance.
Utterance (7c) continues Susan as Cb, whereas utterance(8c) merely retains her.
Utterances like (8c) may be used to provide a basis for a shiftin Cb .11 However, this leaves open questions of the independence of syntactic role andpronominalization, and the predominance of either, for controlling centering.The fact that being in subject position contributes in and of itself to the likelihoodan entity will be the highest-ranked Cf (i.e.
likely to be the next CB) can be seen bycontrasting the following two sequences, which differ only in their final utterances:(11) a. Susan is a fine friend.,b.
She gives people the most wonderful presents.c.
She just gave Betsy a wonderful bottle of wine.d.
She told her it was quite rare.
(Susan told Betsy)e. She knows a lot about wine.
(Susan knows... )11 The effect of various linguistic constructions on center movement  and the interactions of centeringshifts with global discourse structure are active areas of research.
Section 9 provides references to suchwork.212Barbara J. Grosz et al Centering(12) a. Susan is a fine friend.b.
She gives people the most wonderful  presents.c.
She just gave Betsy a wonderful  bottle of wine.d.
She told her it was quite rare.
(Susan told Betsy)e. Wine collecting gives her expertise that's fun to share.
(Susan's ex-pertise)In the (c) utterance of each sequence, Susan is the Cb.
Either Susan or Betsy might bethe referent of the subject pronoun in the fourth utterance; however, there appears tobe a strong preference for Susan (i.e., for the reading "Susan told Betsy").
12 Becausethis preference might be attributable to parallelism, the last utterance in (12) providesa crucial test.
If the Cf ranking depended on pronominalization alone, the fourthutterance would allow either Susan or Betsy to be the highest-ranked Cf.
Parallelismwould suggest different preferences for the Cb(12e) in the two sequences.
However,the preferred reading of the pronoun (respectively, "she" and "her") in utterance (e) ofboth sequences is Susan, who is realized in the subject position of the (d) utterances.This preference holds regardless of syntactic position in the (e) utterances.
Thus, wecan establish a preference for subject position.
In other circumstances, however, as theexamples below illustrate, the Cb may be realized in other grammatical  roles.In the first clause of both utterances (13d) and (14d), the direct object is pronomi-nalized; the pronoun "it" refers to the green plastic tugboat.
In (13) taking the boat tobe the highest ranked Cf and hence the most likely referent for "the silly thing" in thesecond clause of utterance (d) yields a coherent and easily comprehensible discourse.
13In (14), however, pragmatic information leads to a preference for the bear, not the boat,to be the referent of "the silly thing" in the last utterance; this preference is in conflictwith the boat's being the most likely Cb.
That (13) is a more coherent discourse than(14) can be explained on the basis of this difference.
TM(13) a.
Have you seen the new toys the kids got this weekend?b.
Stuffed animals must  really be out of fashion.c.
Susie prefers the green plastic tugboat o the teddy bear.d.
Tommy likes it better than the bear too, but only because the sillything is bigger.12 Sequences in which a similar pronominalization pattern is used but in which the fourth utteranceimplies report of a dialogue (e.g., "She thanked her and told her she appreciated that the wine wasquite rare.")
may lead to interpretations i  which the subject pronoun is taken as referring to Betsy;accentuation f the subject may also be used to achieve this result.
The first of these suggests a stronginteraction between dialogue verbs and centering, which is also apparent in direct-speech dialogueexamples.
The relationship between this kind of lexical-semantic influence over centering and that ofso-called 'empathy' verbs, e.g., Kameyama (1985), Walker, Iida, and Cote (1994), remains to bedetermined.
The second would appear to provide additional evidence for subject preference incentering, based on results of Hirschberg and Ward (1991) showing that accenting served to flippreferences (in their study from either strict-to-sloppy orsloppy-to-strict readings for anaphors in theantecedent clause in VP-ellipsis constructions).13 For the sake of this argument, assume that children like bigger things more than smaller things.
If thisis not the case, then the argument merely flips which variants are more acceptable.14 The discrepancy is even greater if "it" is used in the last utterance clause.
However, one mightattribute this to repetition of the use of "it" and so we have avoided the repeated use of a pronoun.
Wealso note that "the silly thing" conveys additional information--roughly, the speaker's attitude towardthe bear or tugboat (cf.
Section 8).213Computational Linguistics Volume 21, Number 2(14) a.
Have you seen the new toys the kids got this weekend?b.
Stuffed animals must really be out of fashion.c.
Susie prefers the green plastic tugboat o the teddy bear.d.
Tommy likes it better than the bear too, although the silly thing isbigger.Thus, the discourses in (11)-(14) suggest hat grammatical role is a major determinantof the ranking on the Cf, with SUBJECT > OBJECT(S) > OTHER.
The effect of factorssuch as word order (especially fronting), clausal subordination, and lexical semantics,as well as the interaction among these factors are areas of active investigation; Section9 again provides references to such work.In summary, these examples provide support for the claim that there is only a sin-gle Cb, that grammatical role affects an entity's being more highly ranked in Cf, andthat lower-ranked elements of the Cf cannot be pronominalized unless higher-rankedones are.
Kameyama (1985) was the first to argue that grammatical role, rather than the-matic role, which Sidner used, affected the Cf ranking.
Psycholinguistic research since1986 (Hudson-D'Zmura 1988; Gordon, Grosz, and Gilliom 1993) supports the claimsthat there is a single Cb and that grammatical role plays a determining role in identi-fying the CB.
It furthermore suggests that neither thematic role nor surface position isa determinant of the Cb.
In contrast, both grammatical role and surface position wereshown to affect the Cf ordering.
Although there are as yet no psycholinguistic resultsrelated to the effect of pronominalization on determining Cb(Un_l) , cross-linguisticwork (Kameyama 1985; Prince and Walker 1995; Walker, Iida, and Cote 1994) arguesthat it plays such a role.
Section 9 lists several papers appearing after Grosz, Joshi,and Weinstein (1986) that investigate factors affecting the Cf ordering.6.
Constraints on Center Movement  and RealizationThe basic constraint on center ealization is given by Rule 1, which is stated in termsof the definitions and schematic in Section 3.Rule 1If any element of Cf(Un) is realized by a pronoun in Unq-1, then the Cb(Un+l) must berealized by a pronoun also.In particular, this constraint stipulates that no element in an utterance can be realized asa pronoun unless the backward-looking center of the utterance is realized as a pronounalso.
is Rule 1 represents one function of pronominal reference: the use of a pronoun torealize the CB signals the hearer that the speaker is continuing to talk about the samething.
Note that Rule 1 does not preclude using pronouns for other entities o long asthe Cb is realized with a pronoun.
(This is illustrated in examples 7-10 in Section 5.
)Psychological research (Gordon, Grosz, and Gilliom 1993; Hudson-D'Zmura 1988) andcross-linguistic research (Di Eugenio 1990; Kameyama 1985, 1986, 1988; Walker, Iida,and Cote 1990, 1994) have validated that the CB is preferentially realized by a pronounin English and by equivalent forms (i.e., zero pronouns) in other languages.The basic constraint on center movement is given by Rule 2.15 Rule 1 ignores certain complications that may arise if one of the forward-looking centers of Un+l isrealized by a deictic pronoun.214Barbara J. Grosz et al CenteringRule 2Sequences of continuation are preferred over sequences of retaining; and sequences ofretaining are to be preferred over sequences of shifting.In particular, a pair continuations across Un and across Un+l, represented asCont(Un,U~+0 and Cont(Un+t,U~+2) respectively, is preferred over a pair of reten-tions, Ret(Un,U~+0 and Ret(U,+t,Un+2).
The case is analogous for pair of retentionsand a pair of shifts.Rule 2 reflects our intuition that continuation of the center and the use of retentionswhen possible to produce smooth transitions to a new center provides abasis for localcoherence.
In a locally coherent discourse segment, shifts are followed by a sequenceof continuations characterizing another stretch of locally coherent discourse.
Frequentshifting leads to a lack of local coherence, as was illustrated by the contrast betweenDiscourse (1) and Discourse (2) in Section 2.
Thus, Rule 2 provides a constraint onspeakers, and on natural-language neration systems.
They should plan ahead tominimize the number of shifts.
This rule does not have the same direct implementationfor interpretation systems; rather it predicts that certain sequences produce a higherinference load than others.
To empirically test the claim made by Rule 2 requiresexamination of differences in inference load of alternative multi-utterance s quencesthat differentially realize the same content.Although several cross-linguistic studies have investigated Rule 2 (see Section 9),there are as yet no psycholinguistic results empirically validating it.7.
Applications of the RulesThe two centering rules along with the partial ordering on the forward-looking centersdescribed in Section 5 constitute the basic framework of center management.
Theserules can explain a range of variations in local coherence.
TMA violation of Rule 1 occurs if a pronoun is not used for the backward-lookingcenter and some other entity is realized by a pronoun.
Such a violation occurs in thefollowing sequence presumed to be in a longer segment that is currently centered onJohn (cf.
also examples (9) and (10) in Section 5):(15) a.
He has been acting quite odd.
\ [C  b = John = referent("he')\]b.
He called up Mike yesterday.
\[CB = John = referent("he')\]c. John wanted to meet him urgently.
\[CB = John; referent("him') =Mike\]The violation of Rule 1 leads to the incoherence of the sequence.
The only possibleinterpretation is that the "John" referred to in (15c) is a second person named "John,"not the one referred to in the preceding utterances in (15); however, even under thisinterpretation the sequence is very odd.
The next example illustrates that this effect is16 These rules and constraints have also been used by others as the basis for pronoun resolutionalgorithms based on centering.
The earliest such attempt (Brennen, Friedman, and Pollard 1987) usedthe uniqueness and locality of Cb constraints and ranked the Cf by grammatical role; it employed avariant of Rule 2 in which the stated preferences on transitions were restricted to transitions betweenindividual pairs of utterances (rather than the longer sequences in the original formulation) and used todecide between possible interpretations of pronouns.
Section 9 provides references toother work oncentering algorithms.215Computational Linguistics Volume 21, Number 2independent of the grammatical position of the C b and also demonstrates that Rule 1operates independently of the type of centering transition.
(16) a. John has been acting quite odd.b.
He called up Mike yesterday.
\[C b = John = referent("he")\]c. Mike was studying for his driver's test.
\[CB = Mike = referent("his')\]d. He was annoyed by John's call.Without utterance (16c), this sequence, like the sequence in (15), is unacceptable unlessit is possible to consider the introduction of a second person named "John."
Theintervening utterance (c) here provides for a shift in center from John to Mike, makingthe full sequence coherent.
17It is important to notice that Rule 1 constrains the realization of the most highlyranked element of the Cf(Un) that is realized in Un+t given that pronominalization is used.Obviously any entities realized in Un that are not realized in Un+t, including the Cb(Un)as well as the highest ranked element of CdUn), do not affect he applicability of Rule 1.Likewise, if no pronouns are used, then Rule 1 is not applicable.
Two particular waysin which such situations may hold have been noticed in previous research.
Each leadsto a different ype of inference load on the hearer, both of which we believe relate toRule 1; however, neither constitutes a violation of Rule 1.
The resulting discourses arecoherent, but the determination f local coherence (in the first case) or the detectionof a global shift (in the second case) requires additional inferences.The first case concerns realization of the Cb by a nonpronominal expression.
Rule 1does not preclude using a proper name or definite description for the Cb if there areno pronouns in an utterance.
However, it appears that such uses are best when the fulldefinite noun phrases that realize the centers do more than just refer.
They convey someadditional information, i.e., lead the hearer or reader to draw additional inferences.The hearer or reader not only infers that the CB has not changed even though nopronoun has been used, but also recognizes that the description holds of the old Cb.Sequences (17) and (18) are typical cases.
TM(17) a.
My dog is getting quite obstreperous.b.
I took him to the vet the other day.c.
The mangy old beast always hates these visits.
(18) a. I'm reading The French Lieutenant's Woman.b.
The book, which is Fowles's best, was a bestseller last year.The second case concerns the use of a pronoun to realize an entity not in the CdUn);such uses are strongly constrained.
The particular cases that have been identifiedinvolve instances where attention is shifted globally back to a previously centeredentity (e.g.
Grosz \[1977\], Reichman \[1985\]).
In such cases additional inferences are17 Empirical investigations of these claims of Grosz, Joshi, and Weinstein (1986) suggest hey are toostrong.
In particular, the results of Gordon, Grosz, and Gilliom (1993) suggest hat (16d) without theintervening (c) utterance is not as bad as (15c).18 Sequence (17) is an adaptation of one of Sidner's examples (Sidner 1979).216Barbara J. Grosz et al Centeringrequired to determine that the pronoun does not refer to a member  of the currentforward-looking centers and to identify the context back to which attention is shifting.Further investigation is required to determine the linguistic cues (e.g., intonation or cuephrases \[Grosz and Hirschberg 1992\]) and intentional information that are required toenable such shifts while preserving coherence, as well as the effect on inference load.A third complication arises in the application of Rule 1 in sequences in which theCB of an utterance is realized but not directly realized in that utterance.
This situationtypically holds when an utterance directly realizes an entity implicitly focused by anelement of the Cf of the previous utterance.
For instance, it arises in utterances con-taining noun phrases that express functional relations (e.g., "the door, .... the owner")whose arguments have been directly realized in previous utterances (e.g., a house) asoccurs in the sequence,(19) a.
The house appeared to have been burgled.b.
The door was ajar.c.
The furniture was in disarray.In this segment, the house referred to in (19a) is an element of the Cf(19a).
This house isthe Cb(19b); it is realized but not directly realized in (19b).
Because the house is the CB,the Cf (19b) includes it as well as the door that is directly realized in the utterance.
TheCB(19c) is thus again "house."
We assume here that the door ranks above the house inCf (19b).
For example, if (19b) is followed by a sentence with 'it' in the subject position,then 'it' is more likely to refer to the doorJ 9 This is consistent with the ranking of thedoor ahead of the house in Cf (19b).
However, continuity of the house as a potentialCB for (19c) is reflected in the discourse segment being interpreted to be "about" thehouse and (19c) being interpreted in the same way as (19b) with respect o the house.In Grosz, Joshi, and Weinstein (1986) we did not explore this issue further; the generalissue of the roles of functional dependence and implicit focus in centering remainopen.
2?The use of different types of transitions following the rankings in Rule 2 areillustrated by the discourse below.
(20) a. John has been having a lot of trouble arranging his vacation.b.
He cannot find anyone to take over his responsibilities.
(he = John)CB = John; Cf = {John}c. He called up Mike yesterday to work out a plan.
(he = John)C6 -- John; Cf = {John, Mike} (CONTINUE)d. Mike has annoyed him a lot recently.CB -- John; Cf = {Mike, John} (RETAIN)e. He called John at 5 AM on Friday last week.
(he = Mike)Cb = Mike; Cf = {Mike, John} (SHIFT)19 However, it can refer to the house.
For example if (b) were followed by "Otherwise from the outside itappeared quite normal.
Inside was a different story."
A pronoun could also be used in othergrammatical roles to refer to the door.
We use subject position as the test, because there is no priorsentential context to bias the interpretation.20 See Section 9 for some recent references related to this issue.217Computational Linguistics Volume 21, Number 2Utterance (20b) establishes John both as the C b and as the most highly ranked Cf.
Inutterance (20c) John continues as the CB, but in utterance (20d) he is only retained;Mike has become the most highly ranked element of the Cf.
Finally, in utterance (20e)the backward-looking center shifts to being Mike.
Rule 1 is satisfied throughout (20).Rule 1 depends only on the ordering of elements of Cf, and not on the notions ofretaining and continuation.8.
Requisite Properties of Underlying Semantic TheoryDifferent semantic theories make different commitments with respect o the complete-ness or definiteness required of an interpretation.
Because the information eeded tocompute a unique interpretation for an utterance is not always available at the time theutterance occurs in the discourse, the ways in which a theory treats partial informationaffects its computational tractability as the basis for discourse interpretation.
It is notmerely that utterances themselves contain only partial information, but that it mayonly be subsequent to an utterance that sufficient information is available for comput-ing a unique interpretation.
No matter how rich a model of context one has, it will notbe possible to fully constrain the interpretation of an utterance when it occurs.
This isespecially true for definite noun phrase interpretation.
For example, several interpre-tations are possible for the noun phrase "the Vice-President of the United States," inthe utterance(21) The Vice-President of the United States is also President of the Senate.One interpretation, amely the individual who is currently Vice-President, providesthe appropriate basis for the interpretation of "he" in the subsequent utterance givenin (22):(22) Right now, he is the President's key person in negotiations with Congress.However, a different interpretation, one which retains some descriptive content, pro-vides the appropriate basis for an interpretation of the pronoun "he" in the slightlydifferent subsequent utterance(23) Historically, he is the President's key person in negotiations with Congress.A semantic theory that forces a unique interpretation of utterance (21) will require thata computational theory or system either manage several alternatives simultaneouslyor provide some mechanism for retracting one choice and trying another later.
On theother hand, a theory that allows for a partially specified interpretation must provide forrefining that interpretation on the basis of subsequent u terances.
Additional utterancesmay provide further constraints on an interpretation, and sequences of utterancesmay not be coherent, if they do not allow for a consistent choice of interpretation.For example, the utterance in (24) is perfectly fine after (22), but yields an incoherentsequence after (23).
2121 These examples were first written in 1986 when George Bush was Vice-President.
They remain usefulfor illustrating the original points if the time of original writing is taken into account.
As we discusslater, taken as spoken now they illustrate new points.218Barbara J. Grosz et al Centering(24) As Ambassador to China, he handled many tricky negotiations, o hedoes well in this job.To summarize, given that one purpose of discourse is to increase the informationshared by speaker and hearer, it is not surprising that individual utterances conveyonly partial information.
However, the lack of complete information at the time ofprocessing an utterance means that a unique interpretation cannot be definitely de-termined.
In constructing a computational model, we are then left with three choices:compute all possible interpretations and filter out possibilities as more information isreceived; choose (on some basis) a most likely interpretation and provide for "back-tracking" and computing others later; compute a partial interpretation.
We conjecturethat this third choice is the appropriate one for noun phrase interpretation.Centering theory and the centering framework rely on a certain picture of theways in which utterances function to convey information about the world.
One roleof a semantic theory is to give substance to such a picture.
At the time Grosz, Joshi,and Weinstein (1986) was written, it struck us that situation semantics (Barwise andPerry 1983) provided a particularly convenient setting in which to frame our owntheory of discourse phenomena, though our account relied only on general featuresof this approach and not on details of the theory as then articulated.
The two mostimportant features of situation semantics from the standpoint of the theory of discourseinterpretation we wished to develop were (1) that it allows for the partial interpretationof utterances as they occur in discourse, and (2) that it provides a framework in whicha rich theory of the dependence of interpretation on abstract features of context maybe elaborated.
There is now a large situation semantics literature that contains manyextensions and refinements of the theory to which we refer the interested reader.The original book (Barwise and Perry 1983) may be consulted for an account of thedistinction between value-free and value-loaded interpretations u ed below.In the discussion and examples in previous sections, the Cb and the elementsof Cf have all been the denotations of various noun phrases in an utterance.
Theactual situation is more complicated even if we ignore for the moment quantifiers andother syntactic omplexities (cf.
Webber 1978) as well as cases in which the centeris functionally dependent on, or otherwise implicitly focused by, an element of theCf of the previous utterance (cf.
Section 7).
A singular definite noun phrase maycontribute a number of different interpretations toCf.
In particular, not only the value-free interpretation, but also various loadings may be contributed.For example, in the utterance, "The Vice-President of the United States is alsoPresident of the Senate," the noun phrase "the Vice-President" contributes both avalue-loaded and a value-free interpretation.
The value-free interpretation is neededin the sequence (25a-c), whereas the value-loaded interpretation is needed in (26a-c).
(25) a.b.C,The Vice-President of the United States is also President of the Senate.Historically, he is the President's key man in negotiations with Congress.He is required to be 35 years old.
(26) a.b.C.The Vice-President of the United States is also President of the Senate.Right now, he's the president's key person in negotiations with Congress.As Ambassador to China, he handled many tricky negotiations, ohe is well prepared for this job.219Computational Linguistics Volume 21, Number 2The Cb(25b) and the Cb(26b) are both directly realized by the anaphoric element "he.
"But Cb(25b) is the value-free interpretation f the noun phrase, "the Vice-President" (asin, "The Vice-President of the United States is the President's key man in negotiationswith Congress"), whereas Cb(26b) is the value-loaded interpretation (as in "the personwho now is Vice-President of the United States").
That this is so is demonstrated bythe fact that (25c) is true in 1994, whereas (26c) is not.
Centering accommodates thesedifferences by allowing the noun phrase "the Vice-President of the United States"potentially to contribute both its value-free interpretation and its value-loading atthe world type to Cf(25a).
Cb(25b) is then the value-flee interpretation, and Cb(26b)is the value-loaded one (at the time of the writing of Grosz, Joshi, and Weinstein(1986), George Bush, but now \[1995\] A1 Gore).
In each sequence, the (a) utteranceunderdetermines what element to add to Cf.
This underdetermination may continuein a subsequent utterance with the pronoun.
For example, that would be the case ifthe introductory adverbials were left off the (b) utterances.We conjecture that the correct approach to take in these cases is to add the value-free interpretation to Cf and then load it for the interpretation f subsequent u terancesif this is necessary.
This conjecture derives from a belief that this approach will mosteffectively limit the inferences required.
These loading situations thus constitute acomponent of the centering constituent of the discourse situation.
It remains an openquestion how long to retain these loading situations, although those corresponding toelements of Cf that are not carried forward (either as the Cb or as Cfs of the subsequentutterance) can, obviously, be dropped.It is possible for an utterance to prefer either a value-free (VF) or value-loaded(VL) interpretation but not force it.
For example, the second utterance in the followingsequence prefers aVF interpretation but allows for the VL interpretation that is neededin the third utterance.
(27) a.
A: The Vice-President of the U.S. is also President of the Senate.b.
B: I thought he played some important role in the House.c.
A: He did, but that was before he was the Vice-President.In a similar way the second utterance in the following sequence 22 prefers the VLinterpretation, but allows for the VF.
The third utterance r quires the VF interpretation.
(28) a. John thinks that the telephone is a nuisance.b.
He curses it every day.c.
He doesn't realize that it is an invention that changed the world.In these examples, both value-free and value-loaded interpretations are shown to stemfrom the same full definite noun phrase.There appear to be strong constraints on the kinds of transitions that are allowed,however.
In particular, if a given utterance forces either the VF or the VL interpreta-tion, then only this interpretation is possible in the immediately subsequent u terance.However, if some utterance only prefers one interpretation (in a given context), butallows the other, then the subsequent u terance may pick up on either one.22 Christine Nakatani provided this example, which is far more compelling than the one originally inGrosz, Joshi, and Weinstein (1986).220Barbara J. Grosz et al CenteringFor example, the sequence,(29) a.
The Vice-President ofthe United States is also President of the Senate.b.
He's the President's key man in negotiations with Congress.in which "he" may be interpreted either VF, or VL, may be followed by either (30) or(31):(30) As Ambassador to China, he handled many tricky negotiations.
(VL)(31) He is required to be at least 35 years old.
(VF)However, if we change (29b) to force the value-loaded interpretation, asin (26), thenonly the value-loaded interpretation (30) is possible.
Similarly, if (29b) is changed toforce the value-free interpretation, asin (25b), then only the value-free interpretation(31) is possible.Speaker intentions may also enter into the determination f which entities are inthe Cf.
The referential uses of descriptions, ofwhich Donnellan (1966) gives examples,demonstrate cases in which the "referential intentions" of the speaker in his use ofthe description play a role in determining CB(U).
For example, consider the followingsequence:(32) a.
Her husband is kind to her.b.
No, he isn't.
The man you're referring to isn't her husband.
(33) a.
Her husband is kind to her.b.
He is kind to her but he isn't her husband.In these examples, 23 the speaker uses a description to refer to something otherthan the semantic denotation of that description, i.e.
the unique thing that satisfiesthe description (if there is one).
There are several alternative xplanations of suchexamples, involving various accounts of speaker's intentions, mutual belief, and thelike.
A complete discussion of these issues is beyond the scope of this paper.The importance of these cases resides in showing that Cf(U) may include morethan one entity that is realized by a single NP in U.
In this case, the noun phrase"her husband" contributes two individuals, the husband and the lover, to Cf(32a) andCf(33a).
This can be seen by observing that both discourses seem equally appropriateand that the backward-looking centers of (32b) and (33b) are respectively the husbandand the lover, which are realized by their anaphoric elements.These examples introduce a number of research issues concerning the represen-tation and management of the Cb and Cf discourse ntities.
The account given heredepends on a semantic theory that permits minimal commitment in interpretations.The open question is which constraints on centers are introduced at which pointsduring processing.
We must leave this as a topic for future work.23 These xamples are from Kripke (1977, p. 21).221Computational Linguistics Volume 21, Number 29.
Related WorkThis theory can be contrasted with two previous research efforts that spurred thiswork: Sidner's (1979) original work on immediate focusing and pronouns, and Joshiand Weinstein's (1981) subsequent work on centering and inferences.The centering theory discussed here is quite close to Sidner's original theory, bothin attacking local discourse issues and in the general outline of approach.
However,it differs in several details.
In Sidner's theory, each utterance provides an immediatediscourse focus, an actor focus, and a set of potential foci.
The discourse and actorfoci may coincide, but need not.
Her potential foci are roughly analogous to our Cf.The Cb for an utterance sometimes coincides with her actor focus and sometimes withher discourse focus.
She distinguishes these two to handle various cases of multiplepronouns.
However, as we have shown, utterances do not have multiple Cbs.
Further-more, utterances can have more than two pronouns, so merely adding a second kindof immediate focus is of limited use.
The difference between these two theories canbe seen from the following example (from Sidner \[1979\]):(34) a. I haven't seen Jeff for several days.b.
Carl thinks he's studying for his exams,c.
but I think he went to the Cape with Linda.On Sidner's account, Carl is the actor focus after (34b) and Jeff is the discourse focus.Because the actor focus is preferred as the referent of pronominal expressions, Carl isthe leading candidate for the entity referred to by he in (34c).
It is difficult o rule thiscase out without invoking fairly special domain-specific rules.
On our account, Jeff isthe CB at (34b) and there is no problem.
The type of example Sidner was concernedabout would occur if utterance (34c) were replaced by "He thinks he studies toomuch."
However, the centering rules would still hold in this case.
They provide noconstraints on additional pronouns o long as the highest ranked Cf is realized by apronoun.
However, the rules are incomplete; in particular, as given they do not specifywhich pronoun in a multipronoun utterance refers to the Cb.
The center managementrules are based solely on the Cb and the highest ranked member of the Cf.
As a result,while there are cases of multiple pronouns for which the theory makes incompletepredictions, having both an actor and a discourse focus will not handle these cases ingeneral.Joshi and Kuhn (1979) and Joshi and Weinstein (1981) presented a preliminary re-port on their research regarding the connection between the computational complexityof the inferences required to process a discourse and the coherence of that discourseas assessed by measures that invoke centering phenomena.
However, their basic defi-nitions conflate the centers of an utterance with the linguistic expressions that realizethose centers.
In some of their examples it is unclear whether the shift in center orthe particular expression used to realize the center is responsible for differences incoherence and inference load.
Our present work has clarified these differences whilemaintaining Joshi and Weinstein's basic focus on the interaction between inferenceload and center management.Since Grosz, Joshi, and Weinstein (1986) was first circulated a number of re-searchers have tested and developed aspects of the theory presented here.
24 This24 Our listing in this section is based on the best information available to us.
It is quite possible that wehave missed some references.
We will be grateful if readers could send us missing references.222Barbara J. Grosz et al Centeringfollow-on research can be roughly grouped in a few main areas:?
Cross-linguistic work on centering: 25 (German, Hebrew, Italian, Japanese,Korean, and Turkish): Di Eugenio (1990); Hof fman and Turan (1993);Kameyama (1985, 1986, 1988); Rambow (1993); Walker, Iida, and Cote(1990, 1994); Yongkyoon (1991); Ziv and Grosz (1994).?
Centering algorithms: Baldwin (1993); Brennan, Friedman, and Pollard(1987); Kehler (1993); Walker (1989); Walker, Iida, and Cote (1994).?
Empirical and psycholinguistic evaluation of centering predictions:Brennan (1995); Gordon and Chan (in press); Gordon, Grosz, and Gill iom(1993); Gordon and Scearce (1995); Hudson-D 'Zmura  (1988); Hudson,Tanenhaus, and Dell (1986); Walker (1989).?
Centering and linguistic realizations: 26Cote (1992, 1993); Hurewitz andLinson (1993); Kameyama (1993); Nakatani (1993); Passonneau (in press,1991); Prince (1994); Prince and Walker (1995); Suri and McCoy (1993);Turan (1995); Walker (1989).?
Centering, dialogue, and global discourse structure: Brennan'(1995);Hurewitz and Linson (1993); Roberts (1993); Sparck Jones (1993); Walker(1993); Walker and Whittaker (1990).AcknowledgmentsWe want to thank Breck Baldwin, FeliciaHurewitz, Andy Kehler, Karen Lochbaum,Christine Nakatani, Ellen Prince, and LynWalker for their valuable comments, whichhelped us improve both the content and thepresentation of our paper.
We are alsograteful to Carolyn Elken for helping uskeep track of the various drafts of this paperand for providing valuable ditorial help.Partial support for the first author wasprovided by grants NSF IRI-90-09018 andIRI-93-08173; the second author waspartially supported by the ARO GrantDAAL03-89-0031 and ARPA GrantN00014-90-J-1863.ReferencesBaldwin, Breck (1993).
"Anaphoraresolution with centering."
In Workshop onCentering Theory in Naturally-OccurringDiscourse.
Philadelphia, PA, May 1993.Barwise, J., and Perry, J.
(1983).
Situationsand Attitudes.
MIT Press.Brennan, Susan E. (In press).
"Centeringattention in discourse."
Language andCognitive Processes.Brennan, Susan E.; Friedman,Marilyn Walker; and Pollard, Carl J.(1987).
"A centering approach topronouns."
In Proceedings, 25th AnnualMeeting of the ACL.
Stanford, CA.
155-162.Cote, Sharon (1992).
"Discourse functions oftwo types of null objects in English."
InLinguistic Society of America AnnualMeeting, 12.Cote, Sharon (1993).
"Ranking andforward-looking centers."
In Workshop onCentering Theory in Naturally-OccurringDiscourse.
Philadelphia, PA, May 1993.Di Eugenio, Barbara.
(1990).
"Centeringtheory and the Italian pronominalsystem."
In Proceedings, 13th InternationalConference on Computational Linguistics26 Kameyama's dissertation research (Kameyama 1985) was carried out contemporaneously with theextensions from our 1983 paper to Grosz, Joshi, and Weinstein (1986).
This work was the first toestablish acorrespondence between pronouns in English and zero anaphors in Japanese with respect tointeractions with centering.26 Turan's recent work (Turan 1995) is about he realization of subjects in Turkish and not centers inparticular.
She has studied the distribution of full NP, overt pronoun, and zero pronoun subjects inTurkish and shows that speakers choose one over the other when all are allowed by the grammar inaccordance with the salience of the discourse ntity represented following a centering theory accountof salience.223Computational Linguistics Volume 21, Number 2(COLING-90).
Helsinki, 270-275.Donnellan, K. S. (1966).
"Reference anddefinite description."
The PhilosophicalReview, 75.Gordon, Peter C., and Chan, Davina (inpress).
"The effects of referringexpressions and passivisation onprocessing sentences in coherentdiscourse."
In CUNY Sentence ProcessingConference.
Amherst, MA.Gordon, Peter C., and Chan, Davina (1995).
"Pronouns, passives and discoursecoherence."
Journal of Memory andLanguage, 34, to appear.Gordon, Peter C., and Scearce, Kimberly A.(1995).
"Pronominalization a d discoursecoherence, discourse structure andpronoun interpretation."
Journal of Memoryand Language, 34, to appear.Gordon, Peter C.; Grosz, Barbara J.; andGilliom, Laura A.
(1993).
"Pronouns,names and the centering of attention indiscourse."
Cognitive Science, 17(3),311-348.Grice, H.P.
(1969).
"Utterer's meaning andintentions."
Philosophical Review, 68(2),147-177.Grosz, Barbara J.
(1977).
"The representationand use of focus in dialogueunderstanding."
Technical Report 151, SRIInternational, 333 Ravenswood Ave,Menlo Park, CA 94025.Grosz, Barbara J.
(1981).
"Focusing anddescription in natural anguagedialogues."
In Elements of DiscourseUnderstanding, edited by A. Joshi,B.
Webber, and I.
Sag, 85-105.
CambridgeUniversity Press.Grosz, Barbara J., and Hirschberg, Julia(1992).
"Some intonational characteristicsof discourse structure."
In Proceedings,International Conference on Spoken LanguageProcessing, Volume 1.
Banff, Alberta,Canada, October 1992, 429-432.Grosz, Barbara J.; Joshi, Aravind K.; andWeinstein, Scott (1983).
"Providing aunified account of definite noun phrasesin discourse."
In Proceedings, 21st AnnualMeeting of the Association of ComputationalLinguistics.
44-50.Grosz, Barbara J.; Joshi, Aravind K.; andWeinstein, Scott (1986).
"Towards acomputational theory of discourseinterpretation."
Unpublished ms.Grosz, Barbara J., and Kraus, Sarit (1993).
"Collaborative plans for group activities.
"In Proceedings, IJCAI-93, Volume 1.Chambery, France, September 1993,367-373.Grosz, Barbara J., and Sidner, Candace L.(1986).
"Attentions, intentions and thestructure of discourse."
ComputationalLinguistics, 12, 175-204.Hirschberg, Julia, and Ward, Gregory (1991).
"Accent and bound anaphora."
CognitiveLinguistics, 2(2), 101-121.Hoffman, Beryl, and Turan, Umit (1993).
"Zero and overt pronouns in Turkish."
InWorkshop on Centering Theory inNaturally-Occurring Discourse.Philadelphia, PA, May 1993.Hudson, Susan B.; Tanenhaus, Michael K.;and Dell, Gary S. (1986).
"The effect ofthe Discourse Center on the localcoherence of a discourse."
In Proceedings,Eighth Annual Conference ofthe CognitiveSociety.
96-101.
Lawrence Erlbaum.Hudson-D'Zmura, Susan B.
(1988).
Thestructure of discourse and anaphor resolution:The discourse center and the roles of nouns andpronouns.
Doctoral dissertation, Universityof Rochester, Rochester, NY.Hurewitz, Felicia, and Linson, Brian (1993).
"A discourse analysis of raisingconstructions with to seem."
In Workshopon Centering Theory in Naturally-OccurringDiscourse.
Philadelphia, PA, May 1993.Joshi, Aravind K., and Kuhn, Steve (1979).
"Centered logic: The role of entitycentered sentence representation innatural anguage inferencing."
InProceedings, International Joint Conference onArtificial Intelligence.
435-439.Joshi, Aravind K., and Weinstein, Scott(1981).
"Control of inference: Role ofsome aspects of discoursestructure--centering."
In Proceedings,International Joint Conference on ArtificialIntelligence.
385-387.Kameyama, Megumi (1985).
Zero anaphora:The case of Japanese.
Doctoral dissertation,Stanford University, LinguisticsDepartment, Stanford, CA.Kameyama, Megumi (1986).
"Aproperty-sharing constraint in centering.
"In Proceedings, 24th Annual Meeting of theAssociation for Computational Linguistics.New York, NY, 200-206.Kameyama, Megumi (1988).
"Japanese zeropronominal binding, where syntax anddiscourse meet."
In Papers from the SecondInternational Workshop on Japanese Syntax,edited by William Poser.
CSLI.
Alsoavailable as University of PennsylvaniaTechnical Report MS-CIS-86-60.Kameyama, Megumi (1993).
"Intersententialcentering."
In Workshop on CenteringTheory in Naturally-Occurring Discourse.Philadelphia, PA, May 1993.Kehler, Andrew (1993).
"The effect ofestablishing coherence in ellipsis andanaphora resolution."
In Proceedings, 31st224Barbara J. Grosz et al CenteringAnnual Meeting of the Association forComputational Linguistics.
Columbus, OH,June, 1993, 62-69.Kripke, S. (1977).
"Speaker's reference andsemantic reference."
In ContemporaryPerspectives in the Philosophy of Language,edited by P. French, T. Uehling, andH.
Wettstein, 255-276.
University ofMinnesota Press.Lochbaum, K. E. (1994).
Using collaborativeplans to model the intentional structure ofdiscourse.
Doctoral dissertation, HarvardUniversity, Cambridge, MA.
Alsopublished as Technical Report No.TR-25-94, Center for Research inComputing Technology.Nakatani, Christine (1993).
"Accenting onpronouns and proper names inspontaneous narrative."
In EuropeanSpeech Communication Association Workshopon Prosody.
Lund, Sweden, September1993, 164-167.Passonneau, Rebecca J.
(1991).
"Some factsabout centers, indexicals anddemonstratives."
In Proceedings, 29thAnnual Meeting of the Association forComputational Linguistics, Berkeley, 63-70.Passonneau, Rebecca J.
(in press).
"Gettingand keeping the center of attention."
InChallenges inNatural Language Processing,edited by R. Weischedel and M. Bates.Cambridge University Press.
Alsoavailable as Technical ReportCUCS-060-90, Dept.
of Computer Science,Columbia University, New York, NY.Prince, Ellen E (1994).
"Subject-prodrop inYiddish."
In In Focus and Natural LanguageProcessing, Volume 1: Intonation andSyntax, edited by P. Bosch, 159-174.Working Papers of the IBM Institute forLogic and Linguistics 6.Prince, Ellen E, and Walker, Marilyn A.(1995).
"A bilateral approach togivenness: a hearer-status algorithm and acentering algorithm."
In Proceedings, 4thIn ternational Pragmatics Conference.Benjamins, to appear.Rambow, Owen (1993).
"Pragmatic aspectsof scrambling and topicalization iGerman."
In Workshop on Centering Theoryin Naturally-Occurring Discourse.Philadelphia, PA, May 1993.Reichman, Rachel (1985).
Getting Computersto Talk Like You and Me.
MIT Press.Roberts, Craige (1993).
"Centering andanaphora resolution in discourserepresentation theory."
In Workshop onCentering Theory in Naturally-OccurringDiscourse.
Philadelphia, PA, May 1993.Sidner, Candace L. (1979).
Towards acomputational theory of definite anaphoracomprehension in English discourse.
Doctoraldissertation, Artificial IntelligenceLaboratory, Massachusetts Institute ofTechnology, Cambridge, MA.
June 1979.Technical Report 537.Sparck Jones, Karen (1993).
"How do Icenter large-scale text structure."
InWorkshop on Centering Theory inNaturally-Occurring Discourse.Philadelphia, PA, May 1993.Suri, Linda, and McCoy, Kathleen (1993).
"Comparing focusing and centering andproblems with complex sentences."
InWorkshop on Centering Theory inNaturally-Occurring Discourse.Philadelphia, PA, May 1993.Turan, Umit (1995).
Null vs. overt subjects inTurkish: A centering approach.
Doctoraldissertation, University of Pennsylvania,Philadelphia, PA.Walker, Marilyn A.
(1989).
"Evaluatingdiscourse processing algorithms."
InProceedings, 27th Annual Meeting of theAssociation for Computational Linguistics,251-261.Walker, Marilyn A.
(1993).
"Initial contextsand shifting centers."
In Workshop onCentering Theory in Naturally-OccurringDiscourse.
Philadelphia, PA, May 1993.Walker, Marilyn A., and Whittaker, Steve(1990).
"Mixed initiative in dialogue: Aninvestigation i to discoursesegmentation."
In Proceedings, 28th AnnualMeeting of the Association for ComputationalLinguistics, 70-79.Walker, Marilyn A., Iida, Masayo, and Cote,Sharon (1990).
"Centering in Japanesediscourse."
In Proceedings, 13thInternational Conference on ComputationalLinguistics (COLING-90), Helsinki, 1.Walker, Marilyn A.; Iida, Masayo; and Cote,Sharon (1994).
"Japanese discourse andthe process of centering."
ComputationalLinguistics, 20(2), 193-232.Webber, Bonnie Lynn (1978).
A formalapproach to discourse anaphora.
Doctoraldissertation, Harvard University,Cambridge, MA.
Garland Press.Yongkyoon, N. (1991).
"A centeringapproach to the *\[case\]\[topic\] restrictionin Korean."
Linguistics, 29, 653-668.Ziv, Yael, and Grosz, Barbara J.
(1994).
"Right dislocation and attentional state.
"In Papers from the Israel Association ofTheoretical Linguistics Meetings, edited byR.
Buchalla and A. Mittwoch, 184-199.Akademon Press.225
