Toward a Synthesis of Two Accounts ofDiscourse StructureMegan Moser*University of PittsburghJohanna D. Moore tUniversity of PittsburghAmong researchers interested incomputational models of discourse, there has been a long-standingdebate between proponents of approaches based on domain-independent rhetorical relations, andthose who subscribe to approaches based on intentionality.
In this paper, we argue that the maintheories representing these two approaches, RST (Mann and Thompson 1988) and G&S (Groszand Sidner 1986), make similar claims about how speakers' intentions determine a structure oftheir discourse.
The similarity occurs because the nucleus-satellite r lation among text spans inRST corresponds tothe dominance r lation among intentions in G&S.
Building on this similarity,we sketch a partial mapping between the two theories to show that the main points of the twotheories are equivalent.
Furthermore, the additional claims found in only RST or only G&S arelargely consistent.
The issue of what structure is determined by semantic (domain) relations inthe discourse and how this structure might be related to the intentional structure isdiscussed.
Wesuggest the synthesis of the two theories would be useful to researchers in both natural anguageinterpretation and generation.1.
IntroductionWithin the computational discourse community, there is a long-standing debate be-tween proponents of theories based on domain-independent rhetorical relations (mostnotably Rhetorical Structure Theory, Mann and Thompson 1988, henceforth RST; seealso Hobbs 1985) and those who subscribe to theories based on intentionality (mostnotably that of Grosz and Sidner 1986, henceforth G&S).
While some researchers havetried to integrate the two approaches (Moore and Paris 1993; Asher and Lascarides1994; Hobbs 1993), the two are usually viewed as competing theories.
Here we ar-gue that G&S and RST are essentially similar in what they say about how speakers'intentions determine a structure of their discourse.Intentional structure describes the roles that discourse actions play in the speaker'scommunicative plan to achieve desired effects on the hearer's mental state.
Intentionsencode what the speaker was trying to accomplish with a given portion of discourse.The relations between intentions indicate whether one intention contributes to the sat-isfaction of another (dominance) or whether one intention must be satisfied beforeanother (satisfaction-precedence) (Grosz and Sidner 1986).
In contrast, informationalstructure is concerned with domain relations among the things being talked about.Moore and Pollack (1992) argue that both intentional and informational nalyses areneeded simultaneously.
* Learning Research and Development Center, and Department of Linguistics, University of Pittsburgh,Pittsburgh, PA 15260.
E-mail: moser@isp.pitt.edut Department of Computer Science, and Learning Research and Development Center, University ofPittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA 15260.
E-mail: jmoore@cs.pitt.edu(~) 1996 Association for Computational LinguisticsComputational Linguistics Volume 22, Number 3Prior research as established that recognition of intentional structure, and there-fore appropriate generation of cues to such structure, is crucial for many discourse-processing tasks.
Grosz and Sidner (1986) argued that intentional structure is crucialfor anaphora resolution and plan recognition.
Hirschberg et al (1987) show that inten-tional structure plays a role in intonation.
In addition, Moore (1995, in press) showsthat intentional structure is crucial for responding effectively to questions that referto prior discourse and to communication failures.
Further esearch indicates that in-tentional structure is an important factor in determining when to generate discoursecues (e.g., "because," "thus," "although"), which discourse cues to select, and whereto place those cues (Moser and Moore 1995, in preparation).In this paper, we compare what G&S and RST say about intentional structure.We use the term Intentional Linguistic Structure, or ILS, as a theory-neutral wayof referring to the structure of a discourse determined by the speaker's intentions.The definition of ILS comprises one of the major claims in G&S.
ILS is not directlyaddressed in RST, but is implicit in the RST concept of nuclearity.
We argue thatthe key to reconciling ILS in the two theories lies in the correspondence b tweenthe dominance relation between intentions in G&S and the nucleus:satellite relationbetween text spans in RST.
Roughly speaking, an RST nucleus expresses a G&S in-tention In, a satellite xpresses another intention Is and, in G&S terms, In dominatesIs.
The correspondence b tween G&S dominance and RST nuclearity helps to clarifythe relationship between ILS and informational structure, the structure determinedby underlying semantic (domain) relations.
In particular, the undesirable possibilitythat informational structure could be incompatible with intentional structure (Mooreand Pollack 1992) is explained.
Further, we argue that a synthesis of G&S and RST ispossible because the correspondence b tween dominance and nuclearity forms a greatdeal of common ground, and because the remaining claims in the two theories areconsistent.2.
Intentional Linguistic Structure in G&SG&S is formulated in terms of the interdependence of three distinct structures.
Ofthe three structures, it is the effect of intentional structure on linguistic structure thatconcerns us in this paper.
This effect is an explicit claim about ILS.In G&S, the intentional structure consists of the set of the speaker's communicativeintentions throughout the discourse, and the relations of dominance and satisfaction-precedence among these intentions.
The speaker tries to realize each intention by say-ing something; i.e., each intention is the purpose behind one or more of the speaker'sutterances.
Intentions are thus an extension of the intentions in Grice's (1957) theoryof utterance meaning.
Speakers intend for the intentions behind their utterances toberecognized and for that recognition to be part of what makes their utterances ffective.A purpose I,, dominates another purpose In when satisfying I, is part of satisfyingIra.
A purpose In satisfaction-precedes another purpose Im when In must be satisfiedfirst.
The dominance and satisfaction-precedence relations impose a structure on theset of the speaker's intentions, the intentional structure of the discourse, and this inturn determines the linguistic structure.The linguistic structure of a particular discourse is made up of segments, whichare sets of utterances, related by embeddedness and sequential order.
A segment DS~originates with the speaker's intention: it is exactly those utterances that the speakerproduces in order to satisfy a communicative intention In in the intentional structure.In other words, I,, is the discourse segment purpose (DSP) of DS,.
DSH is embed-ded in another segment DS,, just when the purposes of the two segments are in the410Moser and Moore Discourse StructureIntentional StructureI0: Intends(IntendH a)II1: Intends(Believe, b)II2: Intends(BelieveH c)DS0Linguistic Structure~ S  ome and see the LA Chamber Ballet's concert.1 ~The show should be very entertaining.DS2 ~ It presents all new choreography.Figure 1For G&S, dominance in intentional structure determines embedding in linguistic structure.dominance relation, i.e., Im dominates In.
The dominance relation among intentionsfully determines the embeddedness relations of the discourse segments that realizethem.
For example, consider the discourse shown in Figure 1, adapted from Mannand Thompson (1988).
The whole discourse is a segment, DS0, that attempts to realizeI0, the speaker's intention for the hearer to adopt the intention of attending the ballet.
1As part of her plan to achieve I0, the speaker generates I1, the intention for the hearerto adopt the belief that the ballet will be very entertaining.
Then, as part of her planto achieve I1, the speaker generates I2, the intention that the hearer believe that theshow is made up of all new choreography.
As shown on the left in Figure 1, I0 domi-nates I1, which in turn dominates I2, Due to these dominance relations, the discoursesegment hat realizes I2 is embedded in the discourse segment for I1, which is in turnembedded within the discourse segment for I0, as shown on the right in the figure.The dominance of intentions directly determines embedding of segments.When one DSP In satisfaction-precedes another Ira, then DSn precedes DS,I in thediscourse.
The satisfaction-precedes r lation among intentions constrains the order ofsegments in the discourse, but it does not fully determine it.
In the example in Figure 1,none of the intentions atisfaction-precedes theothers.Here we introduce a concept which is not part of the G&S theory, but which willbe important to our discussion below.
We coin the term core to refer to that part of thesegment that expresses the segment purpose.
A segment may contain individual utter-ances as well as embedded segments.
Most likely, the core of the segment is found inthese unembedded utterances.
In the example, (a) is the core of DS0, (b) the core of DS1and (c) the core of DS2.
As will be discussed, a core functions to manifest he purposeof the segment, while the embedded segments erve to help achieve that purpose.
Thedefining feature of the core is its function of expressing the purpose of the segment.While the core's position in the G&S linguistic structure is most likely an unembeddedutterance, it is also possible that the core could be an embedded segment.
This couldoccur when the expression of the segment purpose is more elaborate than simply stat-ing  what the hearer should do or believe.
To simplify our discussion, however, weassume the core of a segment is an utterance not embedded in any subsegment.It should be clear that the theory-independent notion of ILS as it was character-ized above is exactly the linguistic structure in G&S.
ILS is something G&S makesexplicit claims about.
By choosing to modify the terminology from simply "linguistic1 In subsequent work, Grosz and Kraus have developed a model of collaborative planning in which it isnot necessary for one agent o have intentions-to wards an act of another agent (Grosz and Kraus, inpress; see also Grosz and Sidner 1990).
For the purposes of this paper, however, we will use thenotation of G&S.411Computational Linguistics Volume 22, Number 3structure" to "intentional linguistic structure," we mean to suggest hat considerationof something other than speaker intentions--for example, semantic relations--coulddetermine another kind of structure to the discourse.
Clearly, the semantic (or infor-mational) relations among discourse ntities can in principle be the determinant of aseparate linguistic structure.
Whether or not such an informational structure is use-ful or is related in an interesting way to ILS is a question requiring further research.We discuss the relationship between ILS and possible approaches to informationalstructure briefly in Section 5.3.
Intentional Linguistic Structure in RSTIn contrast o its explicitness in G&S, ILS is only implicit in RST.
To identify theimplicit claims about ILS, we must first identify the components of an RST analysisthat involve a judgement about the relation between intentions underlying text spans.The range of possible RST text structures is defined by a set of schemas, whichdescribe the structural arrangement of spans, or text constituents.
Schemas are basicstructural units or patterns in the application of RST relations.
There are five schemapatterns, each consisting of two or more spans, a specification of each span as eithernucleus or satellite, and a specification of the RST relation(s) that exist between thesespans.
In this paper, we focus on the most commonly occurring RST schema, whichconsists of two text spans (a nucleus and a satellite) and a single RST relation thatholds between them.
The nucleus is defined as the element hat is "more essentialto the speaker's purpose," while the satellite is functionally dependent on the nu-cleus and could be replaced with a different satellite without changing the functionof the schema.
As we argue below, this functional distinction between nucleus andsatellite is an implicit claim about ILS, and is a crucial notion in understanding thecorrespondence b tween RST and G&S.A schema application describes the structure of a larger span of text in terms ofmultiple constituent spans.
Each of the constituent spans may in turn have a structureof subconstituent spans.
Thus, the application of RST schemas in the analysis of atext is recursive, i.e., one schema application may be embedded in another.
To be anacceptable RST analysis, there must be one schema application under which the entiretext is subsumed and which accounts for all minimal units, usually clauses, of thetext.
In addition, each minimal unit can appear in exactly one schema application, andthe spans constituting each schema application must be adjacent in the text.
Theseconstraints guarantee that a correct RST analysis will form a tree structure.An instantiated schema specifies the RST relation(s) between its constituent spans.Each relation is defined in terms of a set of constraints on the nucleus, the satellite,and the nucleus-satellite combination, as well as a specification of the effect that thespeaker is attempting to achieve on the bearer's beliefs or inclinations.
An RST analystmust judge which schema consists of RST relation definitions whose constraints andeffects best describe the nucleus and satellite spans in the schema application.
Mannand Thompson claimed that, for each two consecutive spans in a coherent discourse, asingle RST relation will be primary.
For reasons discussed in Section 5.1, we consideronly the RST presentational relations, or what Moore and Pollack (1992) call intentionalrelations, in identifying the ILS claims of RST.To illustrate how a speaker's intentions determine discourse structure in this the-ory, consider the RST analysis of the example discourse from Figure 1.
As shown inFigure 2, at the top level, the text is broken down into two spans: (a) and (b-c).
Thespan (b-c) forms a satellite that stands in a motivation relation to (a).
This span can412Moser and Moore Discourse Structurea-cmotivationl, ~.
.
.
.
.
\a b-cevidence//-?
\b cFigure 2The RST structure assigned to the example discourse in Figure 1.be further broken down into the two minimal units (b) and (c), where (c) is a satellitethat stands in an evidence relation to (b).
2While there is no direct representation of intentions in RST, the asymmetry  be-tween a nucleus and its satellite originates with the speaker 's  intentions.
The nucleusexpresses a belief or action that the hearer is intended to adopt.
The satellite providesinformation that is intended to increase the hearer 's  belief in or desire to adopt thenucleus.
Implicitly, this is a claim that the text is structured by the speaker 's  intentionsand, more specifically, by the difference between the intention that the hearer adopt abelief or desire expressed in a text span and the intention that a span contribute to thisadoption.
In the example, the nucleus (a) expresses an action that the speaker intendsthe hearer to adopt.
The satellite (b-c) is intended to facilitate this adoption by pro-viding the hearer with a motivation for doing the suggested action.
In the embeddedspan, the nucleus (b) expresses a belief that the speaker intends the hearer to adoptand the satellite (c) is intended to facilitate this adoption by providing evidence forthe belief.The second implicit RST claim about ILS is a refinement of the first.
The intentionalrelations specify the ways in which a speaker can affect the hearer 's  adoption of anucleus by including a satellite.
That is, not only is there a functional distinctionbetween nucleus and satellites, there is also a classification of satellites according tohow they help achieve the hearer 's  adoption of the nucleus.
Translating this into aclaim about ILS, text is structured by the ways in which some utterances are intendedto help other utterances achieve their purpose.4.
Correspondence between Dominance and NuclearityNow we are in a position to compare the explicit claims of G&S about ILS with theimplicit ones of RST.
Both theories agree that a discourse is structured into a hierarchyof non-overlapping constituents, segments in G&S and spans in RST.
Each subcon-stituent may in turn be structured in exactly the same way as the larger constituent.Superficially, the similarity ends there because the internal structure of segments andspans is different.
In G&S, the internal structure of a segment consists of any numberof embedded segments plus what we are calling the core, the (usually unembedded)2 As discussed in Mann and Thompson (1988), a motivation relation occurs when a speaker intends thesatellite to increase the hearer's desire to perform the action specified in the nucleus.
An evidencerelation occurs when a speaker intends the satellite to increase the bearer's belief in the nucleus?413Computational Linguistics Volume 22, Number 3utterances that express the discourse segment purpose.
In RST, the internal structureof a span consists of a nucleus, which we have characterized as expressing a belief oraction the hearer is intended to adopt, a satellite, which is intended to facilitate thatadoption, and an intentional relation between the nucleus and satellite.If we look more closely at the correspondence b tween dominance and nuclearity,we find that the structure of spans and segments is nearly identical.
Specifically, anembedded segment corresponds to a satellite, and the core corresponds to the nucleus.Or, because G&S do not have the notion of core in their theory, a more accurate char-acterization of the correspondence would be that the nucleus manifests a dominatingintention, while a satellite manifests a dominated intention.
That is, dominance in G&Scorresponds closely to nuclearity in RST.
There is a relationship, which we can crudelycharacterize as that of linguistic manifestation, that links the nucleus to a dominatingintention and a satellite to a dominated intention.
Exactly how to derive a commu-nicative intention from an utterance, and vice versa, is one of the main research issuesin computational linguistics.
Here we simply assume that an utterance conveys eithera belief or an action p and thereby makes manifest he speaker's intention that thehearer adopt belief in or an intention to perform p.The correspondence suggests a mapping between G&S linguistic structure andRST text structure.
An embedded segment in G&S will be analyzed as a satellite inRST, and the segment core will be the nucleus.
When there are multiple embeddedsegments in G&S, each subsegment will be analyzed as an RST satellite.
In these casesof multiple subsegments, the RST structure will depend on whether the RST relationsare the same or different.
The entire segment may be a single RST span with the G&Score as nucleus and each subsegment as a satellite of that nucleus.
This occurs whenthe multiple satellites bear the same RST relation to the nucleus.
Alternatively, the G&Score and an adjacent subsegment may be analyzed as an RST nucleus and satellite,forming an RST span.
This span is then the nucleus of a higher span in which thesatellite is an additional G&S subsegment from the same segment.
This occurs whenthe multiple satellites bear different relations to their nucleus.Because cores are a central aspect of the mapping between the two theories, andbecause cores are not part of the G&S proposal, it is natural to ask whether a segmentnecessarily has a core.
Given the nature of segment purposes, a coreless segmentseems intuitively unlikely.
Recall that segment purposes, like the utterance intentionsdiscussed by Grice, have the property that they are intended to achieve their effectin part from being recognized.
The core has an important function: it manifests thepurpose of the segment.
Without a core, the segment purpose must be inferred fromthe subsegments alone.
In such a case, the speaker intends that the hearer recognizea purpose, but does not supply an utterance that manifests that purpose.The question of whether or not coreless egments actually occur, however, is bestanswered by corpus analysis rather than theorizing.
For our present purposes, wewish to consider the possibility of a coreless segment only because such a segmentwould complicate the mapping between the two theories presented above.
In G&S,the definition of linguistic structure does not require a segment o contain a core.
Inthe RST schemas considered thus far, a span always consists of a nucleus and satellite.A less common schema pattern, known as the joint schema, contains multiple spanswith no nucleus-satellite distinction among them joined into a single span.
Should acoreless egment occur in a G&S analysis, it can be mapped to a joint schema in RST.Building on the correspondence b tween dominance and nuclearity, we raise twoissues in the following sections.
First, how do informational relations fit into the dis-course structure?
Second, what synthesis of the two theories emerges when we recog-nize the correspondence?414Moser and Moore Discourse StructureThe intentional perspective:a-bmotivationa bThe informational perspective:a-bcondition/ / :%a b(a) Come home by 5.
(b) Then we can go to the store before it closes.
(a) Come home by 5:00.
(b) Then we can go to the store before it closes.Figure 3RST intentional and informational relations may determine incompatible structures.5.
Informational  StructureMoore and Pollack (1992) argued that RST defines two types of relations: intentionalrelations, which arise from the ways in which consecutive discourse elements par-ticipate in the speaker's plan to affect the hearer's mental state, and informationalrelations, which obtain between the content conveyed in consecutive elements of a co-herent discourse.
This is consistent with Mann and Thompson's (1988, 256) distinctionbetween "presentational" (intentional) and "subject matter" (informational) relations.However, while Mann and Thompson maintain that for any two consecutive elementsof a coherent discourse, one rhetorical relation will be primary (i.e., related by aninformational or an intentional relation), Moore and Pollack showed that discourseinterpretation and generation require that intentional and informational analyses ex-ist simultaneously.
Thus, in addition to the Intentional Linguistic Structure discussedso far, a discourse may simultaneously have an informational structure, imposed bydomain relations among the objects, states, and events being discussed.5.1 Can Intentional and Informational  Structure Differ in RST?In addition to their claim that intentional and informational analyses must co-exist,Moore and Pollack presented an example in which the intentional and informationalrelations can impose a different structure on the discourse.
It is important o under-stand, however, that their example shows that the discourse structure determined byinformational relations as defined in RST can be incompatible with the one determinedby intentional relations.
Here we argue that the problem is due to the inclusion of nu-clearity in the definition of RST subject matter (informational) relations.
As shown inFigure 3, the incompatibility arises because the nucleus and satellite of the intentionalrelation may be inverted in the RST informational relation.
3In Section 4, we argued that nuclearity in an RST analysis is an implicit claim about3 The particular example given by Moore and Pollack had an additional relation embedded in (b), whichhad the same incompatibility between the intentional nd informational nalysis.415Computational Linguistics Volume 22, Number 3Context IOur current president is far more liberal thanthe last one.Context IILegislation passed this week will not beenacted.
(a) Clinton supports environmental protection.
(b) He is sure to veto House Bill 1366.Figure 4Either relatum may be the nucleus when an instance of a domain relation is used.speaker intentions, corresponding to the G&S relation of dominance among intentions.That is, nuclearity rightly belongs in the definitions of intentional relations.
In contrast,informational relations, properly construed, should not distinguish between ucleusand satellite in their definitions.
As an example, consider the pair of RST relationsvolitional-cause and volitional-result.
The volitional-cause r lation is defined as onein which the nucleus presents a volitional action and the satellite presents a situationthat could have caused the agent to perform the action.
The effect of this relationis that the reader "recognizes the situation presented in the satellite as a cause ofthe volitional action presented in the nucleus."
The volitional-result relation is nearlyidentical except hat the cause of the action is the nucleus and the result is the satellite.Why does RST need two relations to capture this?
The reason is that the same domainrelation, call it cause-effect, links a cause and effect regardless of which is the nucleus.In Figure 4, note that, while (a) causes (b), either (a) or (b) can be the nucleus of therelation.
For a particular instance of a cause-effect in the domain, it is equally plausiblefor a speaker to mention the effect o facilitate the hearer's adoption of belief in thecause, as would be suggested by context I in Figure 4, or to mention the cause tofacilitate the hearer's adoption of belief in the effect, as suggested by context II.Moreover, this is precisely what the intentional relations capture.
By incorporat-ing the nucleus-satellite distinction into the definitions of RST informational relations,these relations include an implicit analysis of intentional structure.
As a consequence,strict application of the RST informational relations can result in a different structurethan that imposed by the intentional relations, and this is the source of the problemnoted by Moore and Pollack.
Because nuclearity can only be determined by consid-eration of intentions, and intentional and informational nalyses of a discourse mustco-exist, we argue that the solution to the problem is to properly relegate informa-tion about nuclearity (intention dominance) to the intentional analysis, and removeit from definitions of informational relations.
In this way, these two determinants ofdiscourse structure cannot conflict.
In addition, note that this is preferable to addingsurplus informational relations to allow either elatum to be the nucleus (as was donein the volitional-cause and volitional-result case) because (1) this obscures the fact thatrelations uch as volitional-cause and volitional-result appeal to the same underlyingdomain relation and (2) the proliferation of relations weakens the restrictive power ofthe framework.5.2 Relationship between ILS and Informational StructureOnce we recognize that an informational nalysis is needed simultaneously with ILSand that the informational nalysis hould be determined by domain relations withoutreference to how the relations are employed by the speaker, exactly how to determineinformational structure becomes an underconstrained question.
Should all domain416Moser and Moore Discourse Structurerelations across utterances be analyzed in the informational structure?
What patternsof informational relations are employed in realizing various kinds of intentions, andwhat analysis provides a reliable means for identifying such patterns?
Final answers tothese questions require further research.
Because constraints may be needed in orderto make progress on these issues, we point out two approaches to constraining thedefinition of informational structure.
In Section 6.2 we suggest hat RST informationalrelations provide a version of one of these approaches.The most inclusive definition of informational structure would contain all thedomain relations between the things being talked about.
Included would be causalrelations of various sorts, set relations, relations underlying bridging inferences (Clarkand Haviland 1977), and the relation of identity between domain objects underly-ing coreference of noun phrases across utterances.
By this definition, informationalstructure is a complex network of domain relations that is defined independently ofthe intentional structure.
Keeping track of all domain relations in a discourse is anoverwhelming task and is often infeasible.
One approach to constraining informa-tional structure is to define it as parasitic on intentional structure.
The informationalstructure would contain an accompanying informational relation for each intentionalrelation.
A second approach to constraining informational structure is to define it asa network of domain relations with type restrictions on the relata.
The informationalstructure would contain only the relations among situations, events, and actions, thatis, the types of entities referred to by clauses.6.
A Partial SynthesisThe discussion in Section 4 suggests that RST and G&S share a large amount of com-mon ground.
That is, many of the claims in the two theories, although formulateddifferently, are essentially equivalent.
To begin this section, we state the commonground that emerges from relating dominance and nuclearity.
Then we briefly re-view the claims of each theory that are outside this common ground.
Each theory hassome consistent ground, additional claims that concern issues simply not addressedby the other theory.
The actual contentious ground, claims made by one theory thatare incompatible with the other, is quite small.6.1 Common GroundBuilding on the correspondence b tween dominance and nuclearity, a partial synthesisof G&S and RST would be roughly the following: A segment/span arises because itsspeaker is attempting to achieve a communicative purpose.
Such purposes have thefeature that they are achieved in part by being recognized by hearers.
Thus, the planfor achieving the purpose typically has two distinct parts: (1) one or more utterancesthat serve to make the purpose manifest by expressing a belief or action for the hearerto adopt (the core/nucleus) and (2) a set of subparts that contribute to achievingthe purpose by manifesting subpurposes dominated by that purpose (the embeddedsegments / atellites).Note that this synthesis encompasses the ILS claims of both theories regardingthe example discourse in Figure 1.
DS0 is a segment/span designed to achieve thepurpose I0.
The plan for achieving I0 is to first manifest I0 by expressing the action in(a), the core/nucleus, and then to contribute to the achievement of I0 by providing themotivation in (b-c), the embedded segment/satellite.
In turn, DS1 is a segment/spandesigned to achieve the purpose I1 by first manifesting I1 in the expression of thecore/nucleus (b) and then providing evidence in the embedded segment/satellite (c).417Computational Linguistics Volume 22, Number 3Finally, I2 is made manifest by (c), though no additional contribution to achieving thisintention is provided.6.2 Consistent GroundRST and G&S each makes claims about issues not addressed by the other theory.
Wereview these claims briefly in order to establish that they are consistent.First, the two theories offer different but consistent perspectives on the orderingof segments/spans.
In G&S, intentions may be related by satisfaction-precedence iaddition to dominance.
One intention satisfaction-precedes another when it must berealized before the other.
This relation between intentions partially constrains the orderof what is said and thus introduces a distinction between ecessary order, originat-ing with a satisfaction-precedence relation of the underlying intentions, and artifac-tual order, additional ordering that must be imposed to produce linearized text.
G&Smakes no claim about the relative ordering between a core and embedded segments.In RST, because the underlying intentions are not analyzed explicitly, the distinctionbetween ecessary and artifactual order is not available.
Instead, the relative order-ing of core/nucleus and embedded segment/satellite is highlighted.
RST's authorsclaim that many relations have a typical ordering of their nucleus and satellite.
Thetwo theories address different aspects of ordering without suggesting any points ofcontention.Second, in addition to intentional and linguistic structure, G&S posits an atten-tional structure.
This component determines which discourse ntities will be mostsalient and thereby imposes constraints on available referents for pronouns and re-duced definite NPs.
This is an important issue, but one that RST simply does notmake claims about.
As noted earlier, the recognition of intentional structure is crucialfor anaphora resolution, among other discourse-processing tasks.
By synthesizing RSTand G&S, work done using both approaches can be applied to accomplishing thesetasks during interpretation a d generation.Finally, while G&S recognize that informational structure is a cue to recognition ofintentional structure, the theory does not provide detail.
As discussed in Sections 5.1and 5.2, the analysis of informational relations provided by RST is inadequate andincomplete.
In either theory, more research isneeded to understand how informationalrelations are used to achieve discourse intentions.6.3 Contentious GroundThe claims of G&S and RST discussed so far have been, we argued, either equiva-lent or compatible.
We now turn to a point of contention between the two theories.There are distinctions among the RST intentional relations that, in G&S, would besubtypes of the dominance relation among intentions.
However, G&S specifies thatthe only relations among intentions affecting discourse structure are dominance andsatisfaction-precedence.
Should the various RST intentional relations be incorporatedinto a synthesized theory?The question may be approached from either an empirical or a practical perspec-tive, and the two perspectives may lead to different answers.
To answer the questionempirically, one could code a corpus for its intentional relations and attempt to identifylinguistic ues that correlate with distinctions among the relations.
To answer the ques-tion practically, one would consider whether distinct intentional relations are usefulfor computational systems that generate and/or interpret natural language.
In fact, the418Moser and Moore Discourse Structurepractical application of these intentional relations may be quite different in generationand interpretation systems.
Further research is required to resolve this question.7.
ConclusionIn this paper, we have argued that two of the most important heories of discoursestructure in computational linguistics, G&S and RST, are not incompatible, but in facthave considerable common ground.
The key to the basic similarity between these twotheories is understanding the correspondence between the notions of dominance inG&S and nuclearity in RST.
Understanding this correspondence b tween the theorieswill enable computational models that effectively synthesize the contributions of thetheories, and thereby are useful both for interpretation and generation of discourse.AcknowledgmentsThe research described in this paper wassupported by the Office of Naval Research,Cognitive and Neural Sciences Division(Grant Number: N00014-91-J-1694), and agrant from the DoD FY93 Augmentation ofAwards for Science and EngineeringResearch Training (ASSERT) Program(Grant Number: N00014-93-I-0812).
Theauthors wish to thank Robert Dale, BarbaraDi Eugenio, Donia Scott, Lynn Walker andtwo anonymous reviews for helpfulcomments on an earlier draft of this squib.ReferencesAsher, Nicholas and Alex Lascarides.
1994.Intentions and information in discourse.In Proceedings ofthe 32nd Annual Meeting ofthe Association for Computational Linguistics.Clark, H. H. and S. E. Haviland.
1977.Comprehension and the given-newcontract.
In R. O. Freedle, editor, DiscourseProduction and Comprehension.
LawrenceErlbaum Associates, Hillsdale, NJ.Grice, H. Paul.
1957.
Meaning.
PhilosophicalReview 68:377-388.Grosz, Barbara and Sarit Kraus.
In press.Collaborative plans for complex groupaction.
ArtiJicical Intelligence.Grosz, Barbara J. and Candace L. Sidner.1986.
Attention, intention, and thestructure of discourse.
ComputationalLinguistics 12(3):175-204.Grosz, Barbara J. and Candace L. Sidner.1990.
Plans for discourse.
In Philip R.Cohen, Jerry Morgan, and Martha E.Pollack, editor, Intentions inCommunication.
MIT Press, Cambridge,MA, pages 417-444.Hirschberg, Julia B., Diane J. Litman, JanetPierrehumbert, and Gregory L. Ward.1987.
Intonation and the intentionalstructure of discourse.
In Proceedings oftheTenth International Joint Conference onArtificial Intellligence, pages 636-639,Milan, Italy.Hobbs, Jerry R. 1985.
On the coherence andstructure of discourse.
Technical ReportCSLI-85-37, Center for the Study ofLanguage and Information, LelandStanford Junior University, Stanford,California.Hobbs, Jerry R. 1993.
Intention, information,and structure in discourse: A first draft.In Burning Issues in Discourse, NATOAdvanced Research Workshop, pages 41--66,Maratea, Italy.Mann, William C. and Sandra A.Thompson.
1988.
Rhetorical StructureTheory: Towards a functional theory oftext organization.
Text 8(3):243-281.Moore, Johanna D. 1995.
Participating inExplanatory Dialogues: Interpreting andResponding to Questions in Context.
MITPress, Cambridge, MA.Moore, Johanna D. In press.
The role ofplans in discourse generation.
In DanielEverett and Sarah G. Thomason, editors,Discourse: Linguistic, Computational, ndPhilosophical Perspectives.Moore, Johanna D. and C4cile L. Paris.
1993.Planning text for advisory dialogues:Capturing intentional and rhetoricalinformation.
Computational Linguistics19(4): 651-695.Moore, Johanna D. and Martha E. Pollack.1992.
A problem for RST: The need formulti-level discourse analysis.Computational Linguistics 18(4):537-544.Moser, Megan and Johanna D. Moore.
1995.Investigating cue selection and placementin tutorial discourse.
In Proceedings ofthe33rd Annual Meeting of the Association forComputational Linguistics.
130-135.Moser, Megan and Johanna D. Moore.
Inpreparation.
On the correlation of cueplacement with discourse structure:results from a corpus study.419
