Current Theories of Centering forPronoun Interpretation:A Critical EvaluationAndrew Keh ler*SRI InternationalWe review the fundamental concepts of centering theory and discuss some facets of the pro-noun interpretation problem that motivate a centering-style analysis.
We then demonstrate someproblems with a popular centering-based approach with respect to these motivations.1.
IntroductionA central claim of centering theory (Grosz, Joshi, and Weinstein, 1995 henceforth GJW)is that certain entities mentioned in an utterance are more central than others, andthat this property imposes constraints on a speaker's use of different ypes of ex-pressions to refer to them.
To articulate some of these constraints, they define severalfundamental centering concepts and propose rules based on them that should be fol-lowed by a speaker in producing coherent discourse.
This work has led to severalanalyses employing centering theory and extensions of it, particularly in the area ofpronoun interpretation (Kameyama 1986; Brennan, Friedman, and Pollard 1987; Di Eu-genio 1990, 1996; Walker, Iida, and Cote 1994; Strube and Hahn 1996, inter alia; seealso citations within GJW, forthcoming papers in Walker, Joshi, and Prince in press,and psycholinguistic studies described in Hudson-D'Zmura 1989, Gordon, Grosz, andGilliom 1993, and Brennan 1995).
1 In this squib, we discuss some facets of the pro-noun interpretation problem that motivate a centering-style analysis, and demonstratesome problems with a popular centering-based approach with respect o these moti-vations.2.
Overview of CenteringCentering theory is motivated by two related facts about language that are not ex-plained by purely content-based models of reference and coherence (cf.
Hobbs \[1979\]):(1) that the coherence of a discourse does not depend only on semantic ontent butalso on the type of referring expressions used, and (2) the existence of garden path ef-fects, in which pronouns appear to be resolved before adequate semantic informationhas become available:Pronouns and definite descriptions are not equivalent with respect otheir effect on coherence.
We conjecture that this is so because they* Artificial Intelligence Center, 333 Ravenswood Avenue, Menlo Park, CA 94025.
E-mail:kehler@ai.sri.com1 A draft of GJW, which revised and expanded i eas presented inGrosz, Joshi, and Weinstein (1983),was circulated as far back as 1986.
Therefore some of the works described here as extending the workcontained therein are dated prior to the published version.
(~) 1997 Association for Computational LinguisticsComputational Linguistics Volume 23, Number 3engender different inferences on the part of a hearer or reader.
Inthe most pronounced cases, the wrong choice will mislead a hearerand force backtracking to a correct interpretation.
(Grosz, Joshi, andWeinstein 1995, p. 207)GJW exemplify the first of these motivations with passages (1) and (2).
Passage (1) ispresumed to be in a longer segment that is currently centered on John.
(1) a.
He has been acting quite odd.
(He=John)b.
He called up Mike yesterday.c.
John wanted to meet him quite urgently.The third sentence in this passage is quite odd, presumably because the more centralelement (John) is not referred to with a pronoun whereas the less central element(Mike) is.
This passage can be compared to the similar passage in (2).
(2) a.
He has been acting quite odd.
(He=John)b.
He called up Mike yesterday.c.
He wanted to meet him quite urgently.Although the propositional content expressed by these two passages i  the same (theonly difference being the expression used to refer to John in the subject of the thirdsentence), passage (2) is not jarring in the way that (1) is.GJW exemplify the second of these motivations with passage (3).
(3) a. Terry really goofs sometimes.b.
Yesterday was a beautiful day and he was excited about trying out hisnew sailboat.c.
He wanted Tony to join him on a sailing expedition.d.
He called him at 6AM.e.
He was sick and furious at being woken up so early.Sentence (3e) causes the hearer to be misled: whereas common sense considerationsindicate that the intended referent for He is Tony, hearers tend to initially assign Terryas its referent.
Such examples uggest hat more is involved in pronoun interpretationthan simply reasoning about semantic plausibility.
In particular, they suggest hathearers assign referents to pronouns before interpreting the remainder of the sentence.Details of Centering.
In GJW's centering theory, each utterance Un in a discourse hasexactly one backward-looking center (denoted Co(U,z)) and a partially ordered set offorward-looking centers (denoted Cf(Un)).
Roughly speaking, Cf(U~) contains all enti-ties referred to in U~; among these is Cb(Un).
Following Brennan, Friedman, and Pol-lard (1987), we refer to the highest-ranked forward-looking center as Cp(U,).
2 Cb(Un+D2 The issues pertaining to how the ordering of entities in Cf(U~) is determined have not been completelyresolved.
For the examples discussed in this paper, we can use the hierarchy of grammatical relationsgiven by Brennan, Friedman, and Pollard (1987), in which the grammatical subject is ranked above allother grammatical relations (object, object2, and so forth).468Kehler Centering for Pronoun Interpretationis by definition the most highly ranked element of Cf(U,) realized in U~+I.
Three in-tersentential relationships between a pair of utterances U, and Un+l are defined:...Center Continuation: Cb(Un+l) = Cb(Un) = Cp(Un+l).
In this caseCb(Un+1) is the most likely candidate for Cb(Un+2).Center Retaining: Cb(Un4-1) = Cb(Un), but Cb(Un+l) 7 t Cp(Un+l).
In thiscase Cb(Un+l) is not the most likely candidate for Cb(Un+2).Center Shifting: Cb(Un+l) # Cb(U,).The following rules are proposed in GJW:Rule 1If any element of Cf(Un) is realized by a pronoun in utterance Un+l, then Cb(Un+l)must be realized as a pronoun also.Rule 2Sequences of continuations are preferred over sequences of retaining; and sequencesof retaining are to be preferred over sequences of shifting.The use of Rule 1 is illustrated by the oddness of passage (1) as compared topassage (2), because in (lc) the Cb (John) is not pronominal ized whereas a non-Cb(Mike) is.
The examples GJW give to illustrate Rule 2 are shown in passages (4) and(5).
(4) a. John went to his favorite music store to buy a piano.b.
He had frequented the store for many years.c.
He was excited that he could finally buy a piano.d.
He arrived just as the store was closing for the day.
(5) a. John went to his favorite music store to buy a piano.b.
It was a store John had frequented for many years.c.
He was excited that he could finally buy a piano.d.
It was closing just as John arrived.Like passages (1) and (2), passages (4) and (5) express the same proposit ional con-tent, yet they are not equally coherent.
Whereas passage (4) consists of a sequence ofContinue relations centered on John, passage (5) is marked by movements  betweenContinuing and Retaining, which gives the effect that the passage flips back-and-forthbetween being about John and being about his favorite music store.Rule 1 is presented as a constraint on center realization, and Rule 2 as a con-straint on center movement.
As formulated, the predictions these rules make aboutthe preferred referents of pronouns are fairly limited.
3For instance, Rule 1 makes no3 GJW do not make any specific proposals for using Rules 1 and 2 for pronoun interpretation.
ISection 3, we discuss a particular utilization of these rules for pronoun interpretation proposed byBrennan, Friedman, and Pollard (1987).
An apparently popular misconception attributes this utilizationto GJW, however neither the draft nor final versions of GJW put forth such a proposal.
See also GJW(1995, p. 215, footnote 16).469Computational Linguistics Volume 23, Number 3Table 1Transitions in the BFP algorithm.G(uo+I )  = G(u?)
G(un+~) # G(un)or unbound Cb(Un)Cb(Unq-1) = Cp(Unq-1)Cb(Un+l ) # Cp(Unq-1)Continue Smooth-ShiftRetain Rough-Shiftpredictions about the preferred referents of the pronouns in sentence (3d), nor doesit predict the garden path effect in sentence (3e); in each case the rule is satisfiedassuming either possible assignment of referents to the pronouns.
43.
The BFP Algor i thmBrennan, Friedman, and Pollard (1987, henceforth BFP) describe an algorithm for pro-noun interpretation based on centering principles, which is also utilized in Walker,Iida, and Cote (1994, henceforth WIC).
In addition to Rule 1, BFP utilize Rule 2 inmaking predictions for pronominal reference.
They augment he transition hierarchyby replacing the Shift transition with two transitions, termed Smooth-Shift and Rough-Shift, which are differentiated on the basis of whether or not Cb (U,+I) is also Cp (U,+I).53a.
Smooth-Shift: Cb(Un+l) = Cp(Un+l), Cb(Un+l) ~;~ Cb(Un).3b.
Rough-Shift: Cb(Un+l) # Cp(Un+l), Cb(U~+I) # Cb(U~).They redefine Rule 2 as follows:Rule 2Transition states are ordered.
CONTINUE is preferred to RETAIN is preferred toSMOOTH-SHIFT is preferred to ROUGH-SHIFT.The resulting transition definitions are summarized in Table 1.Given these definitions, their algorithm (as described in WIC) is defined as follows:1.2..GENERATE possible Cb-Cf combinationsFILTER by constraints, e.g., contra-indexing, sortal predicates, centeringrules and constraintsRANK by transition orderingsThe pronominal referents that get assigned are those which yield the most preferredrelation in Rule 2, assuming Rule 1 and other coreference constraints (gender, num-ber, syntactic, semantic type of predicate arguments) are not violated.
This strategy4 A case in which Rule 1 does make a prediction isgiven in example (i); assigning Sam as the referent ofhe causes aviolation whereas assigning John does not.
(i) a. John introduced Bill to Sam.b.
He seemed to like Bill.I thank an anonymous reviewer for bringing this example to my attention.5 The terms Smooth-Shift and Rough-Shift were introduced in WIC.470Kehler Centering for Pronoun Interpretationcorrectly predicts that He and him in sentence (3d) refer to Terry and Tony respec-tively, since this assignment results in a Continue relation whereas the Tony/Terryassignment results in a less-preferred Retain relation.
Their rules also account for theoddness of sentence (3e), since assigning he to Tony results in a Smooth-Shift whereasassigning he to Terry results in a Continue.
Therefore, the algorithm makes the correctpredictions regarding example (3), one of the central motivating examples of centeringtheory.Problems with the BFP Algorithm.
The fact that the BFP algorithm predicts the gardenpath effect exhibited by sentence (3e) is particularly indicative that it embodies themotivations for centering theory.
As we noted in Section 2, such effects distinguishcentering-based approaches from purely content-based models of reference and coher-ence (Hobbs 1979, inter alia).
As Brennan (1995) explains:While knowledge-based theories often succeed in resolving referringexpressions in this manner \[=using semantic information and worldknowledge, without taking advantage of the kinds of syntactic on-straints that centering uses\], they do not model human discourse pro-cessing.
An entirely knowledge-based algorithm would not reproducean addressee's immediate tendency to interpret a pronoun as cospec-ifying the backward center, even when this results in an implausibleinterpretation.
(Brennan 1995, p. 145)However, other examples demonstrate hat the BFP algorithm also cannot model anaddressee's immediate tendency to interpret apronoun, and therefore cannot properlyaccount for the pronoun interpretation preferences that result from such tendencies.To illustrate, we consider a modification to passage (3), shown in passage (6), withthree possible follow-ons (6el-e3).
(6) a. Terry really gets angry sometimes.b.
Yesterday was a beautiful day and he was excited about rying out hisnew sailboat.c.
He wanted Tony to join him on a sailing expedition, and left him amessage on his answering machine.
\[Cb=Cp=Terry\]d. Tony called him at 6AM the next morning.
\[Cb=Terry, C =Tony\]el.
He was furious for being woken up so early.e2.
He was furious with him for being woken up so early.e3.
He was furious with Tony for being woken up so early.Sentence (6d) constitutes a Retain, in which CF(U6d) is Tony and Cb(U6d) is Terry.Retains often result in an ambiguity based on whether a subsequent subject pronounrefers to Cb(U,,) (resulting in a Continue) or to C,(U,) (resulting in a Smooth-Shift).While the subject pronouns in follow-ons (6e1-e3) may all display this ambiguity to acertain degree, the preferences a sociated with them appear to be consistent among thethree variants.
6 That is, the initial preference for the subject pronominal He in sentence6 The author and several informants prefer the subject pronoun to refer to Tony initially, causing agarden path effect in each case.
Aside from this, there may be a subtle processing difference b tween471Computational Linguistics Volume 23, Number 3Table 2Centering analysis of sentences (6el-e3).Sentence Subject Referent Cb(U7el) Cp(U7ei) Result Preference6el Terry Terry Terry Continue TerryTony Tony Tony Smooth-Shift6e2 Terry Tony Terry Rough-Shift TonyTony Tony Tony Smooth-Shift6e3 Terry Tony Terry (#) Rule 1 Violation ??
(Rough Shift)Tony Tony Tony (*) Condition CViolation(6e0 does not appear to be affected by the subsequent inclusion of the phrases withhim in variant (6e2) and with Tony in variant (6e3).
This accords with the observationthat hearers have an immediate tendency to resolve subject pronouns based on theexisting discourse state, before the entire sentence is interpreted.Within the BFP algorithm, however, the ways in which these follow-ons are ana-lyzed differ radically, as summarized in Table 2.
In follow-on (6e0, assigning He=Terryresults in a Continue whereas assigning He=Tony results in a Smooth-Shift, and soTerry is preferred.
In follow-on (6e2), assigning He=Terry results in a Rough-Shiftwhereas assigning He=Tony again results in a Smooth-Shift, and so Tony is preferred.The reason for this difference is attributable solely to the fact that the pronoun himoccurs in (6e2): because there are two non-coreferring pronouns in (6e2), one must referto Tony, and because Tony is Cp(U6d), by definition Tony is Cb(U6e2) instead of Terry.Finally, in sentence (6e3), the assignment of He=Terry results in a Rule 1 violation--theCb Tony is not pronominalized whereas Terry is--putting it in the company of highlyawkward examples uch as passage (1).
If we ignore this violation, the resulting tran-sition is again a Rough-Shift, the lowest-ranked relation.
(The assignment of He=Tonyis ruled out by a syntactic onstraint violation.
)These varied results are inconsistent with the aforementioned facts concerningthese passages in both empirical and theoretical respects.
Empirically, the results arecounter to the more consistent preferences associated with the subject pronouns in eachcase.
Theoretically, such consistency is just what one would expect given a hearer'simmediate tendency to resolve subject pronouns based on the existing discourse state.In either regard, it is unclear why the inclusion of the phrases with him in variant (6e2)and with Tony in variant (6e3) should lead to such varied predictions for the subjectpronoun.
In fact, the example illustrates a general property of the BFP algorithm: thatthe preferred assignment for a pronoun in such examples, even in subject position,cannot be determined until the entire sentence has been processed.
This property re-sults from the fact that determining the transition type between a pair of utterancesUn and Un+l requires the identification of Cb(Un+l), and a noun phrase (pronominalor not) can occur at any point in the utterance that will alter the assignment of Cb(Un+l).This is what occurs in the analysis of passage (6): whereas the Cb of sentence (6el) isthese sentences in that any garden path in sentence (6e3) may be resolved earlier than in (6el) and (6e2),specifically, at the point at which Tony is reached.
This is a result of the fact that syntactic onstraints oncoreference can be used to eliminate the possibility of He referring to Tony at that time, whereas in theother cases it is semantic information that comes later in the sentence that el iminates Tony as a referent.472Kehler Centering for Pronoun InterpretationTerry assuming He refers to Terry, the occurrence of him later in the sentence in (6e2)and similarly Tony in (6e3) causes the Cb to be Tony, thus changing the bindings thatconstitute the various transition possibilities, and in this case, the predicted preferredreferents.
To be clear, this is not an issue regarding the efficiency nor the cognitivereality of BFP's particular algorithm; in fact neither BFP nor WIC make any claims tothese effects.
The problem lies more generally in their proposal to utilize Rule 2 alongwith the definition of Cb(Un+l) to interpret pronouns--any algorithm incorporatingthis proposal will have to process an entire sentence before determining the preferredreferents of pronouns; no reordering of processing within the BFP algorithm can alterthis fact.
The need to process an entire sentence to recover pronoun assignments, how-ever, is one that GJW and Brennan (1995) argue against in motivating centering overpurely content-based models of reference and coherence.
That is, this very propertyrenders such an approach incapable of model ing the preferences associated with anaddressee's immediate tendency to interpret pronouns, as example (6) demonstrates.
7Preferences and Other Intersentential Relationships.
The motivations for centering citedby GJW and Brennan (1995) reflect the intuition that salience plays a central rolein pronoun interpretation.
What remains at issue is the manner in which salience isutilized by the pronoun interpreter.
In the previous section we argued that BFP's useof Rule 2 along with the transition definitions and definition of Cb does not providethe correct utilization.
In fact, the only aspects of Un and Un+ 1 utilized by the BFPalgorithm are the identities of Cb(U,), Cp(Un), Cb(Un+l), and Cp(U~+I), as well as thetypes of expressions used to refer to them.
Here, we argue that this is also insufficient.There is a wel l -known contrast between passages that are coherent by virtue ofbeing a narration, as is the case for sentence (7c) and follow-on (7d), versus thosecoherent by virtue of paral lel ism, as is the case for sentence (7c) and follow-on (7d').
(7) a.
The three candidates had a debate today.b.
Bob Dole began by bashing Bill Clinton.c.
He criticized him on his opposition to tobacco.d.
Then Ross Perot reminded him that most Americans are also anti-tobacco.d'.
Then Ross Perot s lammed him on his tax policies.The preferred referent for the pronoun in example (7d) is Bob Dole, whereas thepreferred referent for the pronoun in example (7d') is Bill Clinton.
However, eachpassage shares entences (7a-c), and therefore Cp(UTc) and Cb(U7c) are the same for eachfollow-on.
Furthermore, each follow-on contains a new subject (Ross Perot, who will be7 In order to model this tendency in the BFP algorithm, one might consider astrategy in whichprovisional referents are assigned to pronouns while proceeding left-to-right in the current utterance.Under such a strategy one could assume that Cb(Un+ 1) is computed incrementally using theassumption that no additional elements will appear in Un+l that are more highly ranked in Cf(Un).Then, garden paths would be predicted when this assumption does not hold and the assignment ofCb (Un+1) must be changed, in addition to those caused by semantic influences such as in sentence (3e).Again, however, this strategy would treat follow-ons (6el) and (6e2) quite differently.
This strategywould predict no garden path effect for follow-on (6el), since it assigns Terry as the referent of he andsticks with it.
On the other hand, (6e2) should be much worse because two garden paths would bepredicted: one for changing Cb(Un+I) from Terry to Tony when the pronoun him is processed, andanother for the semantic information subsequently preferring Terry.
This difference does not appear tobe reflected in the actual judgements for these two examples (in both cases we find a similar gardenpath effect), although experimental evidence would be required to confirm these judgements.473Computational Linguistics Volume 23, Number 3the new Cp) and an object p ronoun (the referent of which will be the new Cb).
Therefore,because the relevant Cb and Cp relations are the same, a BFP-style approach cannotdist inguish between these cases, s These examples show that pronomina l  referencepreferences are affected by addit ional types of intersentential relationships that may beidentifiable at the time a pronoun is encountered; proposals  a long these lines includepreference-ranking schemes (e.g., Kameyama \[1996\]) and systems in which salienceand the process of determining coherence relations interact (e.g., Kehler \[1995\]).4.
ConclusionsThe pronoun resolution preferences that result f rom an addressee's  immediate  ten-dency to interpret a p ronoun motivate pursu ing  a center ing-based approach.
How-ever, certain examples demonstrate  that BFP's uti l ization of the centering rules doesnot model  this tendency, which in turn limits the ability of their a lgor i thm to accountfor the data.
Furthermore,  data has been presented that shows that in addit ion to thesalience factors uti l ized by BFP, addit ional  types of intersentential relationships mustbe taken into account.AcknowledgmentsThe author thanks Barbara Grosz, DavidIsrael, Megumi Kameyama, ChristineNakatani, Gregory Ward, and fouranonymous reviewers for helpful commentsand discussions.
This research wassupported by National ScienceFoundation/Advanced Research ProjectsAgency Grant IRI-9314961 to SRIInternational nd National ScienceFoundation Grant IRI-9404756 to HarvardUniversity.ReferencesBrennan, Susan E. 1995.
Centering attentionin discourse.
Language and CognitiveProcesses, 10:137-167.Brennan, Susan E., Marilyn W. Friedman,and Carl J. Pollard.
1987.
A centeringapproach to pronouns.
In Proceedings ofthe25th Meeting of the Association forComputational Linguistics, pages 155-162.Di Eugenio, Barbara.
1990.
Centering theoryand the Italian pronominal system.
InProceedings ofthe 13th InternationalConference on Computational Linguistics(COLING-90), pages 270-275.Di Eugenio, Barbara.
1996.
The discoursefunctions of Italian subjects: a centeringapproach.
In Proceedings ofthe InternationalConference on Computational Linguistics(COLING-96).Gordon, Peter C., Barbara J. Grosz, andLaura A. Gilliom.
1993.
Pronouns, names,and the centering of attention indiscourse.
Cognitive Science, 17(3):311-347.Grosz, Barbara J., Aravind K. Joshi, andScott Weinstein.
1983.
Providing a unifiedaccount of definite noun phrases inEnglish.
In Proceedings ofthe 21st Conferenceof the Association for ComputationalLinguistics (ACL-83), Cambridge, MA.Grosz, Barbara J., Aravind K. Joshi, andScott Weinstein.
1995.
Centering: Aframework for modelling the localcoherence of discourse.
ComputationalLinguistics, 21(2).Hobbs, Jerry.
1979.
Coherence andcoreference.
Cognitive Science, 3:67-90.Hudson-D'Zmura, Susan.
1989.
The Structureof Discourse and Anaphor Resolution: Thediscourse center and the roles of nouns andpronouns.
Ph.D. thesis, University ofRochester.8 The BFP approach prefers Bob Dole as the referent for the pronoun in each case.
Note that passage (7)with follow-on (7d') contradicts BFP's (page 157) and WIC's (page 223) claim that constraints based onstructural parallelism, such as Kameyama's (1986) property-sharing constraint, are epiphenomena ofBFP's ordering of the Cf and preference for Continue interpretations, since such constraints predict hatBill Clinton is the referent of him, not Bob Dole.
Note also that an appeal to semantic plausibilityfactors to alter the preferences for example (7d') will not work, since it is at least as plausible that Perotwould slam Dole on his tax policies as it is that he would slam Clinton.Suri and McCoy (1994) also provide minimal pairs that are problematic for BFP, which theiralgorithm correctly handles.
However, their algorithm also cannot distinguish between the above pair,preferring Bill Clinton as the referent in both cases.474Kehler Centering for Pronoun InterpretationKameyama, Megumi.
1986.
Aproperty-sharing constraint in centering.In Proceedings ofthe 24th Annual Meeting ofthe Association for Computational Linguistics,pages 200-206, New York.Kameyama, Megumi.
1996.
Indefeasiblesemantics and defeasible pragmatics.
InM.
Kanazawa, C. Pifion, and H. de Swart,editors, Quantifiers, Deduction, and Context.CSLI, Stanford, CA, pages 111-138.Kehler, Andrew.
1995.
Interpreting CohesiveForms in the Context of Discourse Inference.Ph.D.
thesis, Harvard University.Strube, Michael and Udo Hahn.
1996.Functional centering.
In Proceedings ofthe34th Conference ofthe Association forComputational Linguistics (ACL-96), SantaCruz, CA, June.Suri, Linda Z. and Kathleen E McCoy.
1994.RAFT/RAPR and centering: Acomparison and discussion of problemsrelated to processing complex sentences.Computational Linguistics (Squibs andDiscussions), 20(2):301-317.Walker, Marilyn, Aravind Joshi, and EllenPrince, editors.
In press.
Centering inDiscourse.
Oxford University Press.Walker, Marilyn A., Masayo Iida, andSharon Cote.
1994.
Japanese discourseand the process of centering.Computational Linguistics, 20(2).475
