Conceptions of Limited Attention andDiscourse Focus-Barbara J. Grosz tHarvard UniversityPeter C. Gordon*University of North CarolinaWalker (1996) presents acache model of the operation of attention in the processing of discourseas an alternative to the focus space stack that was proposed previously by Grosz and Sidner(Grosz 1977a; Grosz and Sidner 1986).
In this squib, we present acritical analysis of the cachemodel and of Walker's upporting evidence from anaphora in discourses with interruptions andfrom informationally redundant utterances.
We argue that the cache model is underdeterminedin several ways that are crucial to a comparison of the two models and conclude that Walker hasnot established the superiority of the cache model.
We also argue that psycholinguistic evidencedoes not support he cache model over the focus stack model.1.
IntroductionAttention constrains the structure and processing of discourse.
This fact has beenimportant to computational research on discourse since the work of Grosz (1977b).A recent article by Walker (1996) argues that the attentional mechanism has limitedcapacity, that this limited capacity determines the accessibility of information in dis-course processing, and that certain linguistic behavior can only be explained in termsof this limited capacity.
Walker presents as an alternative to the focus space stackpreviously proposed to model global attentional state (Grosz 1977a; Grosz and Sidner1986) a cache model in which linear recency and a highly constrained cache capacityplay primary roles.
As critical evidence, Walker presents an analysis of anaphora indiscourses with interruptions and of informationally redundant utterances (IRUs).
Inaddition, she cites psychological evidence on the limited capacity of human informa-tion processing.
In this response, we discuss the relationship between the focus-spacestack model and the cache model, examine Walker's evidence with respect to the twomodels, and review psychological evidence concerning the contributions of limitedcapacity and recency to the understanding of discourse.
We identify problems withWalker's analysis and deficiencies in the cache model.2.
Attentional State, Focus, and Limited CapacityWalker argues that "\[t\]he notion of a cache in combination with main memory, as isstandard in computational rchitectures, is a good basis for a computational model of hu-man attentional capacity in discourse processing (emphasis added)" (page 258).
Walkerfurther claims that this model has advantages in explaining discourse phenomena overwhat she refers to as the "stack model.
"* Preparation f this paper was supported by NSF grants IRI- 94-04756 and IIS-9811129.t Division of Engineering and Applied Sciences, Cambridge, MA 02138~: Department of Psychology, Chapel Hill, NC 27599-3270(~) 1999 Association for Computational LinguisticsComputational Linguistics Volume 25, Number 4Within computer systems, the stack and cache address different concerns andlevels of processing.
The stack model draws on ideas in programming languagesthat work on evaluation of variables.
The cache model is based on work on mem-ory management.
To examine Walker's claims, we first identify those features of eachcomputational construct that play a role in the respective discourse models.The use of a focus space stack as a model of global attentional state for discourseprocessing (Grosz 1977b) drew on the use of stacks by programming language inter-preters and compilers to determine variable values.
In interpreters and compilers, thestack determines the value a variable has when a processor is in a certain state.
Itprovides implicit indexing and an ordering of access to values that is dependent oncontext.
These two properties and the stack's ability to capture hierarchical relation-ships are the primary attributes adopted in the stack-based model of global discoursestructure and processing.Because Walker describes the cache model only generally and does not identifyspecific properties of caches that are relevant to her model, we first establish the basicroles of caches in computer systems and then identify those properties that seem mostrelevant to her claims.
In computer systems architectures, the cache and main memoryare elements of the memory hierarchy, each level of which has a different speed, size,and cost.
Faster memory is "closer" to the processor allowing for quicker processingof information stored there.
The term "cache" primarily refers to the smallest, fastestmemory that is accessed first.
Because the whole point of the cache is to speed upprocessing, cache management algorithms must be low cost.
They are syntactic in theextreme, depending on physical properties of the system and making no reference tocontent.
For discourse-processing al orithms, and for Walker's model, similar phys-ical properties of human memory do not seem the issue and content (semantic andpragmatic) does matter.Only two of the central memory-hierarchy questions for computer architectures(Patterson and Hennessy 1996) are relevant to the discourse issues Walker raises: re-placement strategy and how information is found in the cache.
Walker does not spec-ify a replacement s rategy, but suggests consideration of a modification of the "leastrecently used" strategy that accommodates what she calls "preferential retention.
"Preferential retention is not clearly defined in the squib; we are given no details onhow items to be (preferentially) retained are identified nor on differences in treatmentof retained items and those in the cache on some other basis.
Preferential retentionis said to depend on the intentions of the discourse participants, but exactly how isnot specified.
There is no discussion of how to identify the information relevant to anew intention that should be retained.
Because intention-based preferential retentionseems to be the main way Walker's cache model breaks out of a strict linear-recencyapproach, the lack of detail makes it difficult to ascertain exactly how it works, andmore generally to establish ow the model differs from the stack model.Walker does not discuss methods for searching the cache although issues of locat-ing information in the cache are important in computer systems design.
Instead, thecache model assumes the cache is sufficiently limited in size that everything in it is"almost instantaneously accessible" (Walker 1996, 258).
Walker also does not define"strategically retrieve" nor specify how main memory is searched when items are notfound in the cache.
Because main memory is part of the cache model (see the quotationthat starts this section), without such information it is difficult o evaluate the model.Hence, the main claims of the cache model seem to be that (1) the cache containsa small number of items; (2) as new entities are discussed in the discourse, entities notmentioned recently are removed from the cache to make room, and (3) remention andsome (unspecified) connection with the current discourse intention cause an entity to618Grosz and Gordon Limited Attention and Discourse Focusbe retained longer in the cache than it would otherwise be.
An important related claimis that (4) only items in the cache are available for various discourse processes like theinference of discourse relations (Walker 1996, 258).Linear recency thus plays a much more substantial role in the cache model thanin the stack model.
In this context, claim (1) raises both computational nd linguisticissues.
From a computational point of view, the cache must be small enough to al-low for instant retrieval of all items (or Walker must specify the retrieval part of theprocessing); from the linguistic point of view, the cache size must accommodate hefacts of informationally redundant utterances--being small enough to explain whenan IRU is required and large enough to explain when no IRU is needed.The stack model makes pecific laims about how intentions at the discourse levelaffect attentional state, providing the basis for the hierarchical structure.
With respectto (3), Walker says that such intentions influence retention and retrieval in the cachemodel, but no details are given.
Intentional connections might be identified and func-tion identically to the intentional structure in the stack model (which would certainlygreatly lessen the differences between the two models) or differently (in which casecomparison would shed light on the appropriateness of the different models).
An ad-ditional difference between the models is the cache model claim (4).
The stack modelclaims only differences in speed and complexity of accessibility, not possibility of ac-cessibility, among those items in the stack and those not.3.
Linguistic EvidenceIn her squib, Walker discusses two types of linguistic evidence: pronominal referencefollowing interruptions and informationally redundant utterances.
We first examinethis evidence from the stack model perspective showing how the data might be ac-counted for within that model; we then raise some questions about Walker's cachemodel explanations.In earlier work (Grosz 1977a; Grosz and Sidner 1986) we have argued that itis important to distinguish between two levels of discourse structure and processing:global and local.
A focus-space stack was proposed as a model for the global evel.
Themain claims about its use in processing have been for handling definite descriptions(Grosz 1977a; Grosz 1981) and reasoning about intentional structure (Lochbaum 1998).The local level "refers to the influence of a listener's memory for the linguistic formof an utterance (the actual words and the syntactic structure) on his interpretation fa subsequent u terance" (Grosz 1977b).
1According to this theory of discourse structure, pronominal reference depends onthe local level of attentional state, not the global level.
Initial work on hierarchicaldiscourse structure was motivated by examples of pronouns that were used to re-fer to entities in stacked focus spaces.
This work could be read as suggesting thatsome memory for local attentional state was attached to each focus space.
However,such an account would contradict the local nature of local attentional state, and wehave more recently denied it (Grosz and Sidner 1997).
A more satisfactory explana-tion of such pronoun uses has two components: pecification of the information thatindicates a shift in focus back to the attentional state of some previous discourse seg-ment (typically more than an unstressed pronoun alone) and a determination f the1 Sidner (1979) first provided algorithms that ied the local evel with pronominal reference.
Insubsequent work we have defined a centering model for attentional state at this level (Grosz, Joshi, andWeinstein 1995) and have xplored the ways in which pronominal reference and centeringinteract (Gordon, Grosz, and Gilliom 1993, interalia).619Computational Linguistics Volume 25, Number 4possible connections between discourse segment purposes and the entities for whichsuch pronoun uses are felicitous (which, we conjecture, should be close connections).Although such pronoun uses provide compelling evidence of the hierarchical natureof discourse structure, the focus space stack in itself is not sufficient o explain theirinterpretation.The claim of centering theory is not that centering alone suffices for resolving allpronominal reference (see Kehler \[1997\]), but that when attentional state plays a role,it is local, not global attentional state.
This distinction is important as we reexamineWalker's data and claims.The stack model requires that a speaker indicate to a hearer when attention isshifting from one discourse intention, and thus segment, o another.
As a result ofsuch shifts, focus spaces may be "pushed" or "popped."
Typically, isolated referencesalone (i.e., individual pronouns or definite descriptions) do not suffice.
Many dif-ferent cues have been discussed in the literature, including cue phrases (Hirschbergand Litman 1993; Sidner 1981), intonation (Grosz and Hirschberg 1992; Hirschbergand Litman 1993; Nakatani 1997), repetition of previous content (Sidner 1979), andtense (Polanyi 1988).
With this in mind, we can examine dialogues A-C in Walker'ssquib.In comparing dialogues A and B, Walker argues that the utterance "as well asher uh husband" is easy to interpret after a short interruption but more difficult tointerpret after a longer interruption.
2 She claims that this argues against he stackmodel because the length of the interruption is not a factor in that model.
However,Walker overlooks the fact that "as well as her uh husband" is a sentence fragment, andthus depends on local attentional state for its interpretation.
It may be this aspect of theutterance rather than the pronoun that makes interpretation difficult.
The alternativecontinuation utterance, "OK, well, her husband also works" seems much easier tointerpret for both versions A and B.Walker uses dialogue C to support her argument that IRUs provide evidence forlinear recency.
The gist of her argument is that the material is repeated because it isno longer salient and thus no longer in the cache.
However, there are alternative x-planations of the function of this particular IRU, all of which are compatible with thestack model.
One is that the IRU is being used in part to help identify the discourseintention to which attention is returning.
That is, rather than identifying informationin main memory that needs to be made salient again, the IRU is a repetition thathelps to establish to which part of the dialogue (i.e., which focus space on the stack)attention is now returning.
In this example, attention is returning not merely to thecertificates, but to the advisor's diversification argument concerning them.
With re-spect to this kind of example, the cache and stack models differ in how they find theinformation (by looking in main memory or in the stack), more than in what they doonce they find it.
In either case, the IRU functions to identify the information (dis-course segment content and purpose) to which attention is returning, i.e., to focus(for the cache model) or refocus (for the stack model) attention on something previ-ously salient.
The difference is whether that material is found in main memory or inthe stack.
To determine whether the stack model is appropriate, one would need todetermine whether other items in the focus space to which attention returns becomesalient.2 Intonation plays a major role in the ease or difficulty with which these spoken dialogues could beinterpreted.
That role must be taken into account for processing claims to be supported.620Grosz and Gordon Limited Attention and Discourse Focus4.
Some Deficiencies of the Cache ModelAlthough the attentional state model leaves certain details unspecified (e.g., as Walkernotes, the depth of the stack), it makes specific claims about discourse segment struc-ture, discourse segment purposes, and shifts in attentional state.
3 The cache model,as Walker presents it, leaves too many details unspecified to allow a similar levelof analysis or critique or solid comparison with the stack model.
For such purposesthe memory organization, replacement policy, and retention must be more completelyspecified.
Some key questions are:Memory organization: What is the structure and organization of mainmemory?
According to Walker's cache model if an entity is removedfrom the cache it appears only in main memory and must be retrievedfrom there.
Main memory contains avast amount of information.
Howis the relevant information found?
In particular, with an IRU, is theinformation found in the same way on second retrieval as it was ini-tially?
Is there a claim that long-term memory in some way separatesout information in the current discourse?
In what ways does this struc-ture compare to the focus space stack?Cache replacement policy: Does only a single entry get changed foreach new entity mentioned in the discourse or are entities related tothe old entry removed and others related to the just-mentioned entityadded?
If such related entities are deleted or added to the cache, whichsemantic or pragmatic properties determine sufficient relatedness?Retention: On what specific basis (e.g., which particular discourse-intentional relationships) are entities (preferentially) retained in thecache?5.
Some Problems with Walker's Comparison of the ModelsIn Section 5 of the squib, Walker compares the stack and cache models along a numberof dimensions.
Although her description of the effects in the stack model as partic-ipants shift between different discourse intentions is mostly accurate, the statementunder the second bullet that entities in the focus space are no longer accessible ismisleading.
These entities are accessible, but access is more complex and less efficient,because they are no longer stack-accessible, i.e., they cannot be retrieved through thestack.
However, they are accessible in memory just as they were before and just as thecache model requires for anything removed from the cache.More importantly, the cache model is incomplete in ways that are essential to de-ciding between the two models.
No definition is given of "related to new intention"(first bullet) or "related to prior intention" (third bullet).
Without these specificationsit is unclear what material not explicitly mentioned is brought into the cache.
A spec-ification of the cache replacement strategy is essential to determining the appropri-ateness of the cache model when intentions are completed (bullet 2).
The statementthat the cache "retrieves entities related to the prior intention from the main memoryto the cache, unless retained in the cache," leaves unanswered two critical processing3 There are, in addition, several well-recognized problems with the model.
In particular, as used incomputer systems, tacks do not differentiate among different kinds of frames, but interruptions seemto operate differently from normal embeddings (Grosz and Sidner 1986) and there are open issues inexplaining pronominal reference atdiscourse segment boundaries.621Computational Linguistics Volume 25, Number 4questions: (1) How is the cache searched for related entities and how is relatednessdetermined?
(2) How is a "prior intention" determined i.e., what memory is there forintentional structure and how is that coordinated with information in main memoryso that the relevant information can be found?
The stack model coordinates intentionalstructure and attentional state to address just these issues.Walker makes two problematic claims in comparing the two models' treatments ofinterruptions.
First, dialogue A differs from dialogue B, in that the interruption i A isthree utterances long whereas that in B is five utterances.
If this difference affects thecache content as significantly as Walker's model requires, then the cache is very small;it could not accommodate a very large discourse segment.
But then one must askwhat happens in the cache model with a discourse segment that is longer than threeor four utterances.
Would such a segment require that the reader or writer explicitlyrepeat material that is five or more sentences back?
Second, in discussing dialogue CWalker says that without (22b), (22c), and (23) the inference required to understandthe discourse "requires more effort to process," a claim that requires ubstantiation; iparticular, utterance (22a) followed by (24) without he and that is required because of(22c) seems no more difficult o process than the fragment given.
In both these cases,more empirical investigation is needed to determine the appropriate model.With respect to return pops, Walker has misconstrued Sidner's tacked focus con-straint.
This constraint was postulated before Sidner integrated her work on local focusof attention with the focus-space stack work.
Sidner's claim is significantly differentfrom Walker's.
In particular, it stipulates which pronouns cannot be used for entitiesother than those locally in focus (i.e., those that we now call centers of an utterance).With respect o most of this discussion, Walker does not discuss the potential cost ofchecking nonfocused entities, but this cost can only be low if very few entities arechecked, not all of long-term memory.
In the air compressor (not pump!)
example towhich she refers there was a room full of equipment that could have been made towork and that was visually salient.
An alternative to the explanations Walker providesfor the IRUs with return pops is that IRUs are a good way to shift attention to a priordiscourse intention and segment (hence focus space).Finally, we note that the cache model does suggest an interesting research issuethat is not clearly raised in the stack model.
In computer systems, when information ismoved from main memory to the cache, it is moved in blocks larger than the individualpiece of information that was initially sought.
The guiding locality principle here isspatial ocality: programs typically need to access information (instructions and data)that have addresses near each other in memory (Patterson and Hennessy 1996).
Theprocessing trade-off that computer designers must address is one of processing timeversus hit rate: larger blocks take longer to move, but increase the likelihood thatsubsequently needed information will be in the cache.
Implicit focus (Grosz 1977b)and the treatment of functionally related entities (Grosz, Joshi, and Weinstein 1995)respond to a related issue in discourse processing, namely, what other than an entityitself becomes focused when the entity is focused?
Although it is widely acknowledgedthat various related entities become salient (e.g., the door of a house, the time orlocation of a meeting), the determination f the scope of what becomes alient remainsan open question (Grosz 1981).
Whereas computer architects can depend on physicalproximity in memory, discourse processing requires measures of conceptual c oseness.6.
The Psychology of Discourse ProcessingLike Walker, we support he integration of research in psycholinguistics and researchin computational linguistics, and we support he contention that human information622Grosz and Gordon Limited Attention and Discourse Focusprocessing is constrained by capacity limits, a position that is held by most, but notall, cognitive psychologists.
However, the psycholinguistic literature does not supportWalker's contention that a cache in combination with main memory, as is standardin computational rchitectures, provides a good basis for a computational model ofhuman attentional capacity in processing discourse (Walker 1996b).
The modal modelof memory, capturing common aspects of memory models of the 1960s and early 1970s,had a short-term and long-term memory organization resembling cache-main memoryorganization.
However, research since then has caused cognitive psychologists orevisetheir views of memory in ways that are not consistent with the idea that a cache-likememory contributes to discourse processing.The prominent work of Baddeley (1986) retains the notion of sharply limited ca-pacity in working memory, but the component subsystems that have these limitations(the articulatory loop and the visual-spatial sketchpad) represent information at levelsthat are not directly useful in discourse processing of the sort with which Walker isconcerned.
Baddeley advances the additional idea of a limited-capacity central exec-utive that controls processing, but for this executive, the appropriate computationalanalogy is the processor rather than the cache or memory.
Kintsch's (1988) positionon short-term memory capacity (articulated in Kintsch & van Dijk \[1978\]) dependson a general model of discourse-processing that incorporates many other processingassumptions.
In fact, Kintsch and van Dijk (1978) report that reducing the capacity ofthe short-term buffer from four propositions to one proposition has no effect on howwell the discourse-processing model fits human subjects' performance in recalling andsummarizing stories.
In more recent work, Ericsson and Kintsch (1995) have arguedthat the amount of information that is required for working memory to perform thetasks ascribed to it far exceeds the capacity of the kinds of memory stores that arestudied using traditional short-term emory tasks.
They have proposed that workingmemory makes use of highly organized long-term memory.
One source of evidence forthis view is that frequently people can easily resume a task that has been interrupted,a kind of evidence that was also used to motivate the original stack model (Grosz1977a).
Walker also cites experimental research on pronoun interpretation and othertypes of inference in support of her cache model.
Clark and Sengul (1979) is cited insupport of the notion that pronoun interpretation is based on a linear backward searchof the text, but this research as been criticized for confounding distance between thepronoun and its antecedent with topic shifts (Garnham 1987).
Studies of local corefer-ence (within discourse segments) clearly show that recency is not the primary factor inhuman pronoun interpretation (see Gordon and Scearce \[1995\] for a review).
Studiesof coreference beyond the local domain (called "reinstatement" in the psychologicalliterature) do not provide evidence of a powerful effect of recency in determining easeof comprehension (O'Brien et al 1995).
Other research cited by Walker does supportthe idea that inference in human language comprehension is constrained, but it doesnot provide a basis for distinguishing capacity-limited and focus-based approaches tothis constraint.7.
SummaryIn sum, we agree with Walker that: (1) a model of attentional state is important forexplaining the uses of certain linguistic expressions (e.g., cue phrases and pronouns);(2) human mental processes have limitations of both memory and processing.
We dis-agree with Walker's claims that (1) limited memory capacity is the key architecturalfeature for attentional state; (2) IRUs should be explained on the basis of this limitedcapacity; (3) the felicity of pronominal processing after an interruption provides ev-623Computational Linguistics Volume 25, Number 4idence of this limited memory  capacity; (4) the psychological literature supports thecache model.ReferencesBaddeley, Alan D. 1986.
Working Memory.Oxford University Press, New York.Clark, Herber H. and C. J. Sengul.
1979.
Insearch of referents for noun phrases andpronouns.
Memory and Cognition, 7:35-41.Ericsson, K. Anders and Walter Kintsch.1995.
Long-term working memory.Psychological Review, pages 211-245.Garnham, Alan, 1987.
UnderstandingAnaphora, volume 3, pages 253-300.Erlbaum, London.Gordon, Peter, Barbara Grosz, and LauraGilliom.
1993.
Pronouns, names, and thecentering of attention in discourse.Cognitive Science, 3(17):311-347.Gordon, Peter C. and Kimberly A. Scearce.1995.
Pronominalization a d discoursecoherence, discourse structure andpronoun interpretation.
Memory &Cognition, 23(3):313-323.Grosz, Barbara and Julia Hirschberg.
1992.Some intonational characteristics ofdiscourse structure.
In John Ohala et aL,editors, Proceedings of the 1992 InternationalConference on Spoken Language Processing(ICSLP-92), pages 429-432, Edmonton,Canada.
Personal Publishing Ltd.Grosz, Barbara, Aravind Joshi, and ScottWeinstein.
1995.
Centering: A frameworkfor modeling the local coherence ofdiscourse.
Computational Linguistics,21(2):203-225.Grosz, Barbara and Candace Sidner.
1986.Attention, intentions, and the structure ofdiscourse.
Computational Linguistics,12(3):175-204.Grosz, Barbara J.
1977a.
The representationand use of focus in a system forunderstanding dialogs.
In Proceedings ofthe Fifth International Joint Conference onArti~qcial Intelligence.
Cambridge, MA.Reprinted in Grosz et al 1986, pages339-352.Grosz, Barbara J.
1977b.
The representationand use of focus in dialogueunderstanding.
Technical Report 151,Artificial Intelligence Center, SRIInternational, Menlo Park, CA.Grosz, Barbara J.
1981.
Focusing anddescription in natural anguage dialogues.In A. Joshi, I.
Sag, and B. Webber, editors,Elements of Discourse.
CambridgeUniversity Press, Cambridge, England,pages 84--105.Grosz, Barbara J. and Candace L. Sidner.1997.
Lost intuitions and forgottenintentions.
In Marilyn A. Walker,Aravind K. Joshi, and Ellen E Prince,editors, Centering in Discourse.
OxfordUniversity Press.
To appear.Hirschberg, Julia and Diane Litman.
1993.Empirical studies on the disambiguafionof cue phrases.
Computational Linguistics.Kehler, Andrew.
1997.
Current theories ofcentering for pronoun interpretation: Acritical evaluation.
ComputationalLinguistics, 23(3):467-475.Kintsch, Walter.
1988.
The use of knowledgein discourse processing: Aconstruction-integration model.Psychological Review, pages 393-394.Kintsch, Walter and Tuen van Dijk.
1978.Toward a model of text comprehensionand production.
Psychological Review,85:393-394.Lochbaum, Karen E. 1998.
A collaborativeplanning model of intentional structure.Computational Linguistics, 24(4):525-572.Nakatani, Christine.
1997.
The ComputationalProcessing of Intonational Prominence: AFunctional Prosody Perspective.
Ph.D. thesis,Harvard University.O'Brien, Edward J., Jason E. Albrecht,Christopher M. Hakala, andMichelle L. Rizzella.
1995.
Activation andsuppression of antecedents duringreinstatement.
Journal of ExperimentalPsychology, pages 626-634.Patterson, David A. and John H. Hennessy.1996.
Computer Architecture: A QuantitativeApproach.
Morgan Kaufmann Publishers,Inc., San Francisco, CA.Polanyi, Livia.
1988.
A formal model of thestructure of discourse.
Journal ofPragmatics, 12.Sidner, Candace L. 1979.
Towards aComputational Theory of Definite AnaphoraComprehension in English Discourse.
Ph.D.thesis, Artificial Intelligence Laboratory,Massachusetts Institute of Technology.Technical Report 537.Sidner, Candace L. 1981.
Focusing forinterpretation of pronouns.
ComputationalLinguistics, 7(4):217-231.Walker, Marilyn A.
1996.
Limited attentionand discourse structure.
ComputationalLinguistics, 22(2):255-264.624
