A Methodology for Extending FocusingFrameworksLinda Z. Suri*Fujitsu Nexion, Inc.Jonathan D. DeCristofaro*University of DelawareKathleen F. McCoy tUniversity of DelawareWe address the problem of how to develop and assess algorithms for tracking local focus and forproposing referents of pronouns.
Previous focusing research as not adequately addressed theprocessing of complex sentences.
We discuss issues involved in processing complex sentences andreview a methodology used by other esearchers todevelop their focusing frameworks.
We identifydifficulties with that methodology and difficulties with using a corpus analysis to extend focusingframeworks tohandle complex sentences.
We introduce a new methodology for extending focusingframeworks, which involves two steps.
In the first step, a set of systematically constructed textsare used to identify an extension of the focusing framework to handle a particular kind of complexsentence.
In the second step, a corpus analysis is used to confirm the extension.
We explain howour methodology overcomes the difficulties faced by other approaches.1.
IntroductionThe central problem addressed in this work is how to develop and assess algorithmsfor tracking local focus and for proposing referents of pronouns for use in naturallanguage processing (NLP) systems.
1 By "local focus," we refer to the person, object,property, or concept that a sentence ismost centrally about within the discourse contextin which it occurs.
The appropriate movement and marking of local focus, and theappropriate choice of the form of a noun phrase (NP) based on local focus information,are considered to contribute to the local coherence xhibited by discourse (Sidner\[1979\], Grosz, Joshi, and Weinstein \[1983, 1995\], Carter \[1987\], and others).In addition, local focus information is one source of information that is used byreaders and hearers for interpreting pronouns.
Some researchers (e.g., Hobbs 1978;Lappin and Leass 1994) have proposed pronoun resolution algorithms that do notinvolve focus tracking.
However, our view is that local focus tracking and pronounresolution are mutually dependent processes.
The local focus information influencespronoun resolution, and pronoun resolution, in turn, influences updating focus in-formation.
Therefore, the tracking of local focus is crucial for the interpretation ofpronouns.
* 1807 Park 270 Drive, Suite 350 St. Louis, MO 63146.
E-mail: suri@nexen.comt Department of Computer and Information Sciences, University of Delaware, Newark DE 19716.
E-mail:mccoy@cis.udel.eduDepartment of Computer and Information Sciences, University of Delaware, Newark DE 19716.
E-mail:decristo@cis.udel.edu1 This research was supported by NSF grants #IRI-9010112 and #IRI-9416916, the Nemours Foundation,a Unidel Summer Research Fellowship from the Department of Computer and Information Sciences atthe University of Delaware, and NSF Graduate Traineeship grant #GER-9354869.
(~) 1999 Association for Computational LinguisticsComputational Linguistics Volume 25, Number 2There have been several algorithms described in the literature for tracking localfocus information and for using this tracked information to do pronoun resolution.In this paper we first briefly introduce the notion of local focusing and what a lo-cal focusing algorithm is intended to capture.
Generally the way that the focus ofa sentence is expected to shift through a discourse is dependent on some syntacticproperties of the sentence.
However, most of the work on tracking local focus hasconcentrated on simple (single clause) sentences.
Thus previous work on focusing hasnot adequately addressed the processing of complex (i.e., multiclausal) sentences.
Wediscuss a number of issues involved in the processing of complex sentences in orderto motivate the need for a methodology for extending focusing frameworks to handlethem.
We review a methodology used by other researchers to develop their focusingframeworks, and we identify some difficulties with that methodology.
We examinethe possibility of using a corpus analysis to extend a focusing framework, and brieflydescribe potential problems with such an approach.
We then introduce our own two-part methodology for extending focusing frameworks, which we call the SemanticallySlanted Discourse (SSD) Methodology.
The first part of the methodology consists of anexploratory phase in which possible xtensions to a focusing algorithm are discoveredthrough the use of carefully constructed iscourses that rely on the potential tensionbetween focusing and world-knowledge factors in pronoun resolution.
We show howthis first phase can be used to propose an extension to a local focusing framework inorder to handle a given type of complex sentence.
The first phase is then followed bya corpus analysis to confirm its findings.
We explain why a corpus analysis used toconfirm an extension is more practical than one used to identify an extension in thefirst place.2.
What is Local Focusing?We use the term "local focusing framework" to refer to a theory or framework con-sisting of a (set of) focus tracking algorithm(s) and a (set of) pronoun resolution al-gorithm(s).
A local focusing framework records and makes use of information aboutfocusing factors and indicates how these factors influence (intersentential) pronounresolution.
Generally, focusing factors include such things as:...Grammatical role.
In several focusing frameworks (Sidner 1979; Grosz,Joshi, and Weinstein 1983, 1995), some grammatical roles (e.g., surfacesubject and surface direct object) are considered indicative of what is infocus.
Also, a pronoun resolution algorithm might prefer to find anantecedent from a previous entence that has the same grammatical roleas a pronoun in the current sentence.Pronoun use.
Most, if not all, focusing frameworks are constructed onthe basis of the belief that pronominalization is often indicative of focus.At the same time, when an intersentential pronoun is found, a pronounresolution algorithm generally prefers to find an antecedent that ishighly focused in the previous entence.Constancy of focus.
Many focusing frameworks assume that if an itemthat was the focus of the previous entence occurs in the currentsentence, it is more likely to be focused in the current sentence.
Asabove, a pronoun resolution algorithm that suggests the focus of theprevious entence as the antecedent of a pronoun in the current sentencewould be consistent with this factor.174Suri, McCoy, and DeCristofaro Extending Focusing Frameworks...Shifting preferences.
Most, if not all, focusing frameworks pecifypreferences for how focus is most likely to shift if the focus of thecurrent sentence is not the same as the focus of the previous entence.Clue words and phrases.
Most, if not all, focusing research takes intoconsideration that clue words and phrases might affect pronounresolution and what is focused in a sentence.Syntactic form.
In some frameworks, certain syntactic forms (e.g., cleftedsentences) might indicate an item as highly focused.The specific list of focusing factors and the way they interact are different fordifferent focusing frameworks; A particular focusing framework must identify a setof focusing factors and must indicate how these focusing factors interact o suggestcospecifications for pronoun resolution and to identify the focus of a sentence.A local focusing framework is not intended to independently interpret pronouns.Rather, a local focusing framework is intended to suggest cospecifications for pronounsin a reasonable order.
An inferencing mechanism that makes use of semantic factors(such as semantic ase constraints, world knowledge, rhetorical relations, etc.)
must beused to confirm or reject a suggested cospecification.
Thus, local focusing frameworksare intended to capture a coherence factor in discourse that influences preferences forhow to resolve pronouns independent of semantic factors.3.
Processing Complex Sentences: A Reason for Extending Focusing AlgorithmsAlthough complex sentences are prevalent in written English, most other local focus-ing research (focusing: Sidner \[1979\] and Carter \[1987\]; centering: Grosz, Joshi, andWeinstein \[1983, 1995\], Brennan, Friedman, and Pollard \[1987\], Walker \[1989, 1993\],Kameyama \[1986\] 2, Walker, Iida, and Cote \[1994\], Brennan \[1998\], Kameyama, Passon-neau, and Poesio \[1993\], Linson \[1993\] and Hoffman \[1998\]; and PUNDIT: Dahl \[1986\],Palmer et al \[1986\], and Dahl and Ball \[1990\]) did not explicitly and/or adequatelyaddress how to process complex sentences.
Thus, there is a need to extend focusingalgorithms.An exception to this rule is the work of Strube (1996) (which applies functional-information-structure-based criteria on a per-clause basis), Kameyama (1998), andStrube (1998).
Kameyama's focus was on intrasentential naphora nd she attemptedto define an "utterance" in the face of syntactic omplexity.
Strube, in very recent work(Strube 1998), handles arbitrary sentence complexity.
Still, neither considers how par-ticular types of complexity might affect a broad range of focusing factors.Notice that there are a number of ways that a given type of complex sentencemight be handled by a focusing algorithm.
For instance, consider processing a complexsentence of the form "SX because SY," where SX and SY each consist of a single clause.One might imagine processing the SX clause and then the SY clause (i.e., resolvingthe pronouns in these clauses and updating the focusing data structures) as if theclauses were a sequence of simple (i.e., single clause) sentences.
On the other hand, itmay be the case that for this type of complex sentence, the sentence should be treatedas a single unit of processing with elements of one of the clauses dominating the2 Kameyama (1986) did address the issue of multiple subjects, but did not address the general problemof developing a methodology for determining how a focusing framework should handle complexsentences.175Computational Linguistics Volume 25, Number 2processing.
(For further discussion of these and other possible processing possibilities,see Suri \[1993\].
)The question we address is how one can appropriately extend a focusing mech-anism to handle various kinds of complex sentences.
We illustrate our approach byfocusing on one kind of complexity: sentences of the form "SX because SY" where SXand SY are simple sentences.
In Section 7 we discuss the application (or generalization)of this methodology to other types of complex sentences.
34.
A Methodology Used in Other Local Focusing WorkRecall that local focusing theories are attempting to capture patterns of focus move-ment and patterns of relations between anaphors and their antecedents that are inde-pendent of semantics, world knowledge, rhetorical relations, etc.
Because of this, themethod for determining how to process particular kinds of complex sentences thatmight seem the most natural is to construct semantically neutral discourses 4 that in-volve the type of complex sentence under study, and gather linguistic judgments todetermine how people prefer to resolve the pronouns.
In fact, in exploring other aspectsof local focusing frameworks, other literature appears to have tried to make use ofsemantically neutral texts in this fashion (e.g., Brennan, Friedman, and Pollard 1987;Walker, Iida, and Cote 1994).
However, in trying to construct discourses to determinehow to process a particular kind of complex sentence, we realized it is difficult toconstruct discourses that are truly semantically neutral and sound natural.
This task isfurther complicated by the need to construct a number of semantically neutral texts inorder to control for and isolate each of the factors that might affect how readers preferto resolve pronouns.
5 These factors include the influence of the other complex sentencestructures in the discourse, and the factors that affect focus computation and pronounresolution for simple sentences, i.e., focus history, the syntactic roles of pronouns andtheir potential antecedents, verb aspect and tense, and so on.More importantly, when one is constructing texts without he benefit of a systematicmethodology, one cannot be sure that the collection of constructed texts are represen-tative of naturally occurring text in terms of the interactive relationships within andacross focusing and semantic factors, and their influence on pronoun interpretation.As a result, there is a danger of tuning a theory to handle a discourse phenomena thatis the exception rather than the norm in naturally occurring situations.5.
Using a Corpus Analysis to Extend FrameworksBecause of the problems associated with using constructed discourses, it is natural toturn to some kind of corpus analysis to extend afocusing framework.
For example, onemight measure how well an extension of a framework handles a type of complex sen-tence by measuring how accurately and efficiently it suggests referents for pronouns intexts that contain the type of complex sentence under consideration.
One could counthow often the extended framework suggests a wrong referent (which would not berejected by an ideal inferencing mechanism), and how many referents it suggests (onaverage) to the inferencing component before the correct referent is selected.3 Note, it is possible that various types of complex sentences would each need to be handled ifferentlyby the focusing algorithm.4 I.e., discourses whose pronouns cannot be unambiguously resolved on the basis of semantic/world-knowledge factors alone.5 This need was not addressed byprevious focusing work in an adequate or systematic fashion.176Suri, McCoy, and DeCristofaro Extending Focusing FrameworksSuch a corpus analysis has been used to compare pronoun resolution algorithmsthat are not based on a focusing framework.
For instance, Hobbs (1978) proposes asimple pronoun resolution algorithm that proposes referents for pronouns that it findsby walking a parse tree of a sentence (and the previous entences) in a particular order.He examined several hundred pronoun occurrences in a variety of texts to show howwell the algorithm was able to identify the correct referent.Lappin and Leass (1994) developed a pronoun resolution algorithm that chose areferent for a pronoun from a set of potential referents (which were filtered to assuretheir syntactic and morphological ppropriateness) on the basis of a "salience factor"rating.
The rating for a potential referent was raised if, for example, it was a subject,it occurred recently (the algorithm, like Hobbs's, preferred intrasentential pronouns),it was a head noun, or it had a parallel grammatical role with the pronoun.
Thisalgorithm was also tested using a corpus analysis (and it was compared to Hobbs'salgorithm with a corpus analysis as well).Strube (1998) introduced a novel pronoun resolution algorithm that handled intra-and intersentential anaphora uniformly.
He was able to apply his algorithm to a corpusand showed that his algorithm outperforms that of Brennan, Friedman, and Pollard(1987) using the definition of utterance given in Kameyama (1998).Notice that none of the factors on which the above algorithms were based explicitlytake into account the specific complexity exhibited by a sentence.
(For example, thereis no difference in the set of factors for an "SX because SY" sentence as compared to an"SX although SY" sentence, ven though it is possible that the subsequent pronounsshould be resolved ifferently in the two cases.)
In addition, neither Hobbs (1978) norLappin and Leass (1994) tracked focusing information.
While Strube (1998) is closer toa "focusing-based" algorithm, it considers very few of the focusing factors discussedin the previous ection.
On the other hand, pronoun resolution algorithms dependenton the kind of focusing information discussed in the previous ection are affected bycomplex sentence structures.
Thus we must face the challenge of determining how thefocusing algorithm (and pronoun resolution algorithms) should act in the face of thecomplexity introduced by a type of complex sentence.Other researchers have attempted to make use of corpus analyses in focusingresearch (though they did not attempt o extend the various algorithms to handlecomplex sentences).
Walker (1989) performed a corpus analysis on written and spokenEnglish to compare centering with Hobbs's algorithm (Hobbs 1976) in terms of theiraccuracy and coverage for finding the cospecifiers of pronouns.
Walker also performeda corpus analysis (on spoken English) to investigate how centering should processa sentence beginning with the word Now, which she assumes (frequently) marks anew discourse segment (Walker 1993).
Linson (1993) analyzed a corpus of spokendata to investigate focus transition patterns.
(Previous work on centering assumed aparticular priority on focus transition possibilities.)
However, in each of these analyses,the researcher did not specify how complex sentences in the corpora were processedby the centering algorithm.
Because the complex sentences may affect the way thecentering data structures should be computed, it is not clear how the reported resultsshould be interpreted.
6While we believe that corpus analyses are ultimately necessary for evaluatingfocusing frameworks, any analysis based solely on a corpus analysis will be facedwith several potential difficulties.6 In fact, in some cases, Linson treated a complex sentence astwo units for processing, and in others, hetreated a complex sentence asa single unit for processing (Suri 1993).177Computational Linguistics Volume 25, Number 2First, a focusing framework is intended to capture a reader's preferences for focusmovement and pronoun resolution independent of world knowledge, semantics, andother pragmatic factors.
Very large amounts of text would have to be analyzed tocontrol the influence of these factors; yet, since there are few tools available for thistype of analysis, this task would be formidable.Second, a corpus analysis may be useful in comparing various extensions of afocusing framework, but it is up to the designer to decide which extensions to compare.
7Using a corpus analysis alone, a novel extension cannot emerge by becoming evidentas a side effect of the analysis.
Generally speaking, before a corpus analysis can beused, the researcher must have made all decisions concerning the processing of alltypes of sentences occurring in the corpus.
These decisions would include:1.
Whether and how a complex sentence should be segmented forprocessing (for pronoun resolution and focus computation).
(Note thatthe answer to this might vary for different types of complex sentences.)2.
Whether at a given point in the discourse, the framework should preferfor the focus to remain the same or for the focus to shift in someparticular manner.3.
What and how linguistic information about the text should affect he(predictive) pronoun resolution algorithms and updating focusing datastructures.One might include the following items among this information:?
grammatical roles of elements?
syntactic form of clauses?
the syntactic from of the sentence as a whole?
pronominalization (i the current sentence)?
clue words?
verb aspect and tenseOne must also determine how these factors hould be taken into accountin the algorithms.4.
How factors discussed in items 2 and 3 interact in pronoun resolutionand in updating focusing information.The decisions about the matters discussed in the above list would constitute a(version of a) focusing framework.
Thus, when one tries to compare different extendedversions of a focusing framework one is effectively asking how the different sets ofpossible decisions about the matters discussed above compare to one another.To perform a corpus analysis to identify the appropriate extension of a frameworkin order to process a particular type of complex sentence, all possible extensions ofthe framework (which are to be tested in the corpus analysis) must be completelyidentified prior to the corpus analysis.
Notice, however, that there is no guarantee thatthe correct extension will be specified and tested in the corpus analysis approach.
Onemight overlook the appropriate answers to how to segment sentences and how toprocess a particular kind of complex sentence.
In addition, the number of possible7 To use a corpus analysis and learning algorithm to automatically learn an extension, ot only must hecorpus be marked with the referents ofall the anaphors, but also all the focusing data structures mustbe specified for each sentence.
This task faces many of the problems outlined below.178Suri, McCo~ and DeCristofaro Extending Focusing Frameworksextensions is likely quite large, and thus the number of alternative corpus analyseswill likely be quite prohibitive.Perhaps the most significant and problematic obstacle for determining how toextend a focusing framework to handle a particular kind of complex sentence via acorpus analysis is the following: if one does not know how to process many typesof complex sentences, it is difficult to perform a corpus analysis to determine howto process a given type of complex sentence, since instances of that type of complexsentence are likely to be preceded and followed by other types of complex sentences.
Inparticular, if we are trying to determine how to process a particular type of complexsentence, and that type of sentence occurs as sentence Sn in a text in a corpus, wedo not want misconceptions about how to process entence Sn_ 1 or how to processsentence Sn+l in the text to mislead us in deciding how to process a complex sentencelike sentence Sn.
Furthermore, many sentences in the corpus are likely to involvemultiple levels of complexity.
Thus, it is very difficult to isolate the influence of onecomplex sentence structure from the influence of another complex sentence structurewhen performing a corpus analysis.In sum, in order to perform a corpus analysis, it is necessary to make many deci-sions prior to the analysis.
On what basis should these decisions be made?
There aremany factors that affect focusing and pronoun resolution that need to be studied andyet there is no way to systematically isolate these factors from each other in naturallyoccurring text.
Also, one might not easily find a portion of text with an appropriatecombination of features that is needed to test one's hypothesis.
Furthermore, the test-ing of a hypothesis i likely to require looking at many portions of text with differentcombinations of values for focusing factors (e.g., pronominalized subject versus notpronominalized subject, whether a subject is coreferring with the subject \[or someparticular focusing data structure\] of the preceding sentence).
In addition, in order toperform a corpus analysis to determine how to extend a focusing framework, one mustmake decisions about how to segment and process all kinds of complex sentences thatoccur in the corpus.
This requires knowing a priori what all of the processing possi-bilities are, or what all of the possible xtensions to the framework are, and it requirestesting all of these possible extensions.We feel that these difficult problems make it infeasible to determine how to processcomplex sentences using a methodology based on a corpus analysis alone.
On the otherhand, once a possible extension is identified, verification with a corpus analysis is anecessary step to be sure that a found extension is appropriate.
We discuss how toperform such a corpus analysis and indicate some specific problems with using acorpus analysis in the context of this problem in Section 6.5.6.
Our Two-Part Methodology for Determining How to Process Complex SentencesAs we have pointed out, there are several potential problems with analyses usingconstructed discourses and with corpus analyses.
Our methodology combines pecificinstances of both of these methodologies; these specific instances were designed toovercome the difficulties we identified.The first part of our methodology involves systematically constructing discourses(of a type to be described) and gathering acceptability judgments on these discourses.The discourses are constructed in such a way as to help identify a plausible xtensionof a focusing algorithm that would handle the type of complex sentence in question.The resulting extension must then be confirmed by a corpus analysis to ensure thatthe constructed discourses properly represent all influences actually found in naturallyoccurring text.179Computational Linguistics Volume 25, Number 2An alternative to the corpus analysis phase is to perform psycholinguistic experi-ments, such as those of Gordon, Grosz, and Gilliom (1993) and Hudson-D'Zmura andTanenhaus (1998), which validate aspects of centering theory by measuring subjects'reading times of several types of sentences.
This is a reasonable approach since, inthose studies, the theory being validated, centering, was already given.
In our case,the second phase is trying to verify a hypothesis uggested by the human subjects'judgments (collected in less-controlled circumstances) from the first phase.
So, eithera new set of test discourses or a new set of human subjects would be needed in or-der to execute a psycholinguistic experiment.
For the sake of simplicity and to avoidthe strict constraints on using human subjects, it is more practical for us to rely ona corpus analysis in the verification phase.
Furthermore, the corpus analysis revealshow language is actually used in practice, rather than depending on a small set ofdiscourses presented to the human subjects.6.1 Semantically Slanted Discourse (SSD) Methodology: The Motivation for theFirst PartIn previous literature on local focusing (e.g., Sidner 1979; Grosz, Joshi, and Weinstein1983, 1995; Brennan, Friedman, and Pollard 1987), researchers used a small numberof constructed texts to justify aspects of their focusing frameworks and to assess andcompare focusing frameworks.
However, they did not explicitly address how oneshould construct sets of texts in order to draw accurate conclusions about local fo-cusing.
The first part of our methodology is intended to help the researcher constructsets of texts (i..e., minimal pairs or minimal quadruples) that allow components of afocusing framework to be systematically isolated and thus allow one to appropriatelyassess focusing frameworks.To appreciate the reasoning behind the first part of our methodology, or what wecall our Semantically Slanted Discourse (SSD) Methodology, recall that local focusingframeworks are intended to capture the preferences for pronoun resolution independentof semantics, world knowledge, rhetorical relations, and other kinds of pragmatics.Thus, they are intended to capture how one would resolve pronouns and updatefocusing information in discourse that is neutral in terms of these factors.
Presumablyin such texts, only focusing factors would affect pronoun resolution.
In a semanticallynonneutral discourse, semantic factors (semantics, world knowledge, etc.)
can overridethe preferences of the focusing framework by rejecting potential referents proposedby a focusing framework.Taking this into account, in order to determine how best to process a particulartype of complex sentence, we decided to construct discourses that have two importantproperties:1..The set of discourses must be systematically constructed to ensure thateach possible combination of focusing factors is represented in adiscourse.
Below, we show how this is done for a particular focusingframework and a single type of complex sentence.The discourses are intentionally loaded or slanted for pronouninterpretation based on semantic factors.
We call such a discourse"semantically slanted" because the interpretation of all of the pronounsis fully determined by the semantic factors alone.We contend that in a semantically slanted discourse, if the text seems ambiguousor awkward, or if one needs to reinterpret a pronoun, then the focusing preferences180Suri, McCo35 and DeCristofaro Extending Focusing Frameworksfor pronoun resolution are at odds with the preferences based on semantics, worldknowledge, or other pragmatic factors.
On the other hand, if the text seems accept-able/natural, then we contend that the preferences for pronoun resolution based on fo-cusing agree with preferences based on semantic slanting.
Thus, gathering acceptabil-ity judgments about these systematically constructed semantically slanted discoursesshould help us identify what the focusing preferences are, and thus how a focusingframework should be extended to handle a given type of complex sentence.
This isthe idea at the heart of our methodology.6.2 Isolating the ComplexityIn using semantically slanted discourses to uncover an extension of a focusing algo-rithm, discourses must be constructed which:1. isolate the complexity under study2.
(when taken together) determine an extension of the focusing algorithmby determining how the focusing factors, the aspects of the text takeninto consideration by the focusing algorithm, should "behave" in theface of the complexity under studyThe first of these issues influences the overall form of the discourses being con-structed.
The second requires ystematically constructing a number of discourses thatalter the various focusing factors in such a way as to isolate their potential influence.In order to isolate the complexity under study, we construct a set of discourses ofthe following form, for which the interpretation of the NPs is fully determined by thesemantics of the text and world knowledge:Example 1($1) Simple sentence($2) Sentence with one level of complexity (i.e., having two clauses),introduced by the syntactic form of interest.
($3) Simple sentenceIn examining linguistic judgments about such texts, our goal is to identify preferencesimposed by the syntactic form of $2 for:?
resolving pronouns in $2?
updating the focusing data structures after $2 so that the pronouns of $3can be correctly resolved in a manner that is consistent with resolvingpronouns in a sentence following a simple sentence or another kind ofcomplex sentence.The motivation for having $1 be a simple sentence is to avoid any effect a com-plex sentence might have on the focusing data structures going into $2.
Similar135 themotivation for having $3 be a simple sentence is to avoid any effect that a complexsentence structure in $3 might have on pronoun resolution in $3.6.3 Systematic Construction of Discourses for "SX because SY" SentencesOur methodology calls for the systematic construction of a set of discourses that en-sures that all possible combinations of the focusing factors are represented.
This willallow an extension of a given focusing framework to emerge (since the set of dis-courses essentially captures all possibilities for an extension).
To better illustrate the181Computational Linguistics Volume 25, Number 2types of discourses our methodology calls for constructing, let us consider what wouldbe needed to extend a particular focusing framework, RAFT/RAPR (described in Suri\[1993\]), to handle resolving subject pronouns in sentences of the form "SX becauseSY" where SX and SY are simple sentences, and in a sentence following that type ofsentence.
8But, first, let us briefly introduce some facts about the RAFT/RAPR algorithm.RAFT/RAPR defines a data structure called the Subject Focus, abbreviated SF, which,for a simple sentence, is taken to be the subject.
The algorithm prefers to resolve asubject pronoun (in a simple sentence) so that it corefers with the contents of theSubject Focus of the previous sentence.
When processing a simple sentence, if thesuggested referent for a subject (i.e., the previous sentence's Subject Focus) is rejectedby inferencing with world knowledge, semantics, and pragmatics, then other elementsin the previous discourse are tried in a specified order; this ordering is (indirectly)influenced by such things as whether a pronoun was used in the previous sentence(since pronouns are indicative of focus and therefore influence the computation offocusing data structures for the previous sentence).
Notice that the algorithm prefersconstancy in Subject Focus over shifting the Subject Focus.
9To address the question of how to process "SX because SY" sentences, we examineddiscourses of the form:Example 2($1) simple sentence($2) SX because SY($3) simple sentenceThe set of constructed discourses were "variations" of the form shown in Example 3.Example 3($1) Dodge was nearly robbed by an ex-convict the other night.
(s2) \[Dodge\] captured \[the x-con\] because \[the x-con\] was so stupid andclumsy.
($3) Then \[Dodge\] called the police.Notice in this example that SX = "\[Dodge\] captured \[the x-con\]" and SY -- "\[theex-con\] was so stupid and clumsy".
We constructed variations of this text to teaseout how the various focusing factors interact when processing an "SX because SY"sentence or a simple sentence following an "SX because SY" sentence.
The constructedvariations of the text (described below) changed the form and referents of the text insquare brackets "\[ \]".
In order to keep the semantic slanting appropriate, these changescaused the content of the text to be changed as well.8 Throughout the paper, except in Section 6.5, we use "SX" and "SY" to denote simple sentences orsimple clauses.9 The centering algorithm prefers for the center to remain the same rather than to change, and it alsoprefers for the center to be the subject of the sentence.
In general, focusing algorithms have apreference for focus/foci to remain the same rather than to change; this preference s ems consistentwith the goal for text o be coherent.182Suri, McCoy, and DeCristofaro Extending Focusing FrameworksSome questions that must be answered in coming up with an extension of RAFT/RAPR for handling "SX because SY" sentences are:..If the Subject(SY) is a pronoun, how should Subject(SY) be resolved?Recall that RAFT/RAPR would prefer a subject pronoun to corefer withthe subject of the previous sentence.
In the face of this complexity,should the algorithm prefer that the Subject(SY) corefer with Subject(S1)or with Subject(SX)?How should Subject(S3) be resolved?
I.e.,?
Preferring Subject(SX) always?
(This would suggest hatRAFT/RAPR should compute the Subject Focus of the "SXbecause SY" sentence to be Subject(SX).)?
Preferring Subject(SY) always??
Preferring Subject(SX) or Subject(SY) depending on which ispronominalized??
Preferring Subject(SX) or Subject(SY) depending on which iscoreferential with Subject(S1)??
Based on some other preference?The answers to these (and all such similar questions) constitute a decision abouthow and whether the complex sentence should be segmented, and how to weigh theinfluences of the various focusing factors such as pronominalization a d focus historyin resolving pronouns and in updating the focusing data structures.To see how we make up the discourse variations to cover all processing possibili-ties, consider this abstract view of the text, which indicates the NPs we are interestedin:Example 4($1) Subject(S1) .. .
Direct-Object(S1)($2) Subject(SX) ... Direct-Object(SX)because Subject(SY) ..
.
($3) Subject(S3)...To find an extension of the focusing algorithm, we need to construct text variationsthat capture all the different ways the grammatical roles, focus history, and pronomi-nalization (i.e., the focusing factors) might interact in determining the referent of thepronoun in Subject(S3).
TM We construct ext variations corresponding to variations ofthe following parameters:.
Whether Subject(S1) is the ex-convict or Dodge.
("An ex-convict nearlyrobbed Dodge the other night" vs. "Dodge was nearly robbed by anex-convict the other night.")
n10 It is crucial that we keep the form of the complex sentence constant (i.e., "SX because SY") butmanipulate he text so that the focusing data structures before processing $2 take on all possiblevalues.
This allows us to identify how these data structures should influence pronoun resolution within$2 and $3.11 Passive sentences are handled by most focusing algorithms; however, see Section 6.4.1 for a discussionof why the choice between active and passive voice could not account for the findings of theexperiment.183ComputationalLinguistics Volume 25, Number 2.?
Note that the Direct-Object(S1) will always introduce the otheractor.
This helps test the focusing factor of grammatical role.Whether Subject(SX) of $2 is the ex-convict or Dodge.
("\[Dodge\]captured \[the x-convict\] because \[the x-convict\] was so stupid andclumsy" vs. "\[The x-convict\] woke \[Dodge\] up because \[the x-convict\]was so stupid and clumsy.")?
Notice that 1 and 2 together will vary whether or not theSubject(S1)=Subject(SX).?
Note if Subject(S1)Subject(SX) thenDirect-Object(S1)=Subject(SX), again testing rammatical roleeffects.3.
Whether Subject(SY) of $2 is the ex-convict or Dodge.
("\[The x-convict\]tied \[Dodge\] up because \[the x-convict\] didn't want any trouble" vs."\[The x-convict\] tied \[Dodge\] up because \[Dodge\] wasn't co-operating.")?
1 and 3 taken together alter whether or notSubject(S1)=Subject(SY).?
2 and 3 taken together alter whether or notSubject(SX)=Subject(SY).?
Because the focusing algorithm prefers constancy in SubjectFocus history, these alternations help us decide whether $1 orSX is more important in resolving pronouns in SY.4.
Whether Subject(S3) is the ex-convict or Dodge.
12 ("Then \[the x-convict\]was arrested by the police" vs. "Then \[Dodge\] started screaming forhelp.")?
This parameter (in conjunction with the others) determineswhether Subject(S3)=Subject(SX) or Subject(S3)---Subject(SY) orneither (e.g., Subject(S3)=Direct-Object(SY)).
13?
Similar to 3 above, this parameter helps us determine how theNPs in $2 affect he resolution of the pronoun in $3.5.
Whether Subject(SX) was pronominalized.6.
Whether Direct-Object(SX) was pronominalized.7.
Whether Subject(SY) was pronominalized.?
Parameters 5-7 help check how various patterns ofpronominalization might affect he processing.By generating texts for all combinations ofdifferent values of these parameters, weare able to control for the influence of each focusing factor.
Essentially, taken together,the texts capture all different grammatical roles, focus history patterns, and patternsof pronominalization.12 Recall that when Subject(S3) is pronominalized, thereferent ofSubject(S3) is determined bythesemantic slanting of the text.13 There must be at least hree ntities inthe discourse for Subject(S3) tocospecify neither Subject(SX) norSubject(SY), otherwise Direct-Object(SY) is Subject(SX) or Subject(SY).
Such a discourse does not appearin this paper.184Suri, McCoy, and DeCristofaro Extending Focusing FrameworksThe result of this procedure is a set of texts that can be presented to native speak-ers for judgments.
The idea is that in texts that are judged to be acceptable, the readersees no conflicts, so the focusing factors (grammatical role, pronoun history, and focushistory) must agree with the semantic slanting.
In texts that are judged unaccept-able or ambiguous, there must be a conflict between these two sets of factors.
Thus,gathering such judgments hould identify how focusing factors and semantic factorsinfluence how readers interpret pronouns, and on the basis of this information fromthe judgments, a possible extension of the focusing algorithm can be identified.6.4 Finding an Extension Based on JudgmentsTo see how this methodology can be used to find an extension for a focusing frame-work, let us concentrate on determining how RAFT/RAPR should compute the fo-cusing data structures for an "SX because SY" sentence in order to correctly resolve asubject pronoun in a simple sentence following an "SX because SY" sentence.
In con-sidering this question, recall that RAFT/RAPR prefers to resolve a subject pronoun ina simple sentence with the Subject Focus of the previous sentence.
Thus, the specificquestion we need to address is how to compute the Subject Focus of an "SX becauseSY" sentence.
14Again, the factors that might determine how to compute the subject focus of asentence are:....Syntactic form.
For example, perhaps the Subject Focus should becomputed as Subject(SX) (or, alternately, Subject(SY)), regardless of otherfactors.
This would be appropriate if readers prefer to resolve the subjectof the subsequent sentence so that it cospecifies Subject(SX) (or,alternately Subject(SY)), regardless of other focusing factors.Pronominalization.
For example, perhaps the Subject Focus should becomputed as Subject(SX) or as Subject(SY) depending on which ispronominalized, regardless of other factors (unless both or neither arepronominalized).
This would be appropriate if readers prefer to resolvethe subject of the subsequent sentence on the basis of whetherSubject(SX) or the Subject(SY) was pronominalized.Focus history.
For example, perhaps Subject Focus should be computedas Subject(SX) or Subject(SY) depending on which cospecified the SubjectFocus of the sentence preceding the "SX because SY" sentence.
Thiswould be appropriate if readers prefer to resolve the subject of thesentence following the "SX because SY" sentence so it cospecifies theSubject Focus of the sentence preceding the "SX because SY" sentence.Perhaps the interaction of two or more of the above factors (syntacticform, pronominalization, and focusing history) might influence how theSubject Focus should be computed.6.4.1 Collecting SSD Judgments.
We contructed 32 discourses that manipulated thefocusing factors as described above and pilot tested these on two of the authors and14 For other focusing frameworks, we would be concerned with a different specific question.
Note thatthe underlying question for each framework is one of how the data structures should be computed foran "SX because SY" sentence so that the referent of the subject in a (immediately) subsequent simplesentence can be computed in an efficient manner that is consistent with the processing of other simplesentences and other sentences that the framework can already handle.185Computational Linguistics Volume 25, Number 2two other people.
This pilot group seemed to be primarily influenced by the syn-tactic form of the sentences.
In particular, their responses indicated a preference forthe subject focus of the "SX because SY" sentence to be the subject of SX.
Becauseasking subjects for judgments on such a large set of discourses was prohibitive, wereduced the number of discourses to 13, including four that would critically examinethe hypothesis that the influence of syntactic form dominated the preferences.
Thediscussion below explains why the selected iscourses test this hypothesis.
The fourcrucial discourses were distributed randomly throughout the test set.Fifty-one participants were asked to judge the sentences as acceptable, awkward,or ambiguous.
(In some cases, a participant did not judge one of the discourses, othere are instances with less than 51 judgments.)
The participants selected were nativespeakers of English working in linguistics or computational linguistics.Suri (1993) performed a critical analysis of the experiment that explained whyother factors uch as the infrequency of indefinite subjects in naturally occurring dis-course, the use of passive or active voice, certain lexical choices, (potentially) strongerreader identification with a victim/near-victim (orwith a criminal), and order of textpresentation could not explain the distribution of judgments in our experiment.
Forexample, one may suspect hat the use of the passive as in $1 of both Example 5 andExample 6 may influence the judgments given.
However, the experiment containedpairs of examples where passive sentences were used for $1 and one was judged ac-ceptable and the other unacceptable bythe participants.
Similar.
pairs of examples with$1 in active voice were included with the same results.
Thus it must be the case thatthe judgments given were attributable tosome factor other than active/passive oice.Similar argumentation can be used to explain why the other factors did not influencethe judgments as well.In the results reported below, judgments of "awkward" and "ambiguous" areboth considered to be "unacceptable."
Since we want to derive an extension basedon what usages are acceptable, the distinction between awkward and ambiguous inot relevant, since neither is acceptable.
Table 1 contains the results of the four crucialdiscourses contained in our experiment.
In the table, the column labeled Consensusindicates whether the majority of the participants judged the discourse acceptable orunacceptable.
The final column tells the statistical significance of this consensus, ascomputed by a x-square test.
This test is computed separately for each discourse.
Inorder to compute x-square, we must define the expected istribution of responses overthe categories.
To get this, first, the overall distribution of the three categories can becomputed by summing the number of occurrences of each over the four discourses.As can be seen from Table 1 (by summing each judgment column), roughly half thejudgments were "acceptable," a third were "awkward," and a sixth were "ambiguous.
"These ratios can be used to define the expected value for each of the discourses.
Forexample, in Discourse 2, there were 50 responses.
So, the expected number (accordingto the overall distribution) of "acceptable" responses is about half the number ofresponses, or 25.
Using these expected frequencies, x-square is then computed.
15For each discourse, a significant (p < .001) distribution of categories was demon-strated.
As is shown in Table 1, the group judged each discourse to be acceptable orunacceptable with a high degree of significance.
This indicates that the distribution ofjudgments i very different from the random distribution that would result if partici-15 An alternative method of computing expected frequencies s to make no suppositions regarding thethree categories; that is, the expected frequency for each of the three categories is simply one third ofthe number of judgments for that discourse.
With this method, the results are unchanged forthree ofthe discourses, and Discourse 4 is significant a the .05 level.186Suri, McCoy, and DeCristofaro Extending Focusing FrameworksTable 1Acceptability judgments for the SSD's.Number of JudgmentsUnacceptableDiscourse Acceptable Awkward Ambiguous Consensus Significance Level1 (Ex.
5) 47 3 1 Acceptable .0012 (Ex.
6) 8 30 12 Unacceptable .0013 41 9 1 Acceptable .0014 9 25 16 Unacceptable .001pants had no real preferences.
In intuitive terms, p ~ .001 for a discourse means thatthe majority category can indeed be called a consensus, ince it is extremely unlikelythat such a distribution would arise by chance.6.4.2 Results of Collecting SSD Judgments.
Our findings indicate that the syntacticform alone seems to most greatly influence what should be chosen as the Subject Focusof an "SX because SY" sentence (Suri 1993; Suri and McCoy 1993).
In particular, wefound that readers prefer to resolve the subject of a sentence following an "SX becauseSY" sentence so that the subject cospecifies Subject(SX), regardless of other focusingfactors.
We will refer to this finding as the Prefer-SX Hypothesis.
This hypothesisindicates that RAFT/RAPR should be extended so that it computes the Subject Focusof an "SX because SY" sentence as Subject(SX).
Consider how the judged discoursesin Examples 5 and 6 support his conclusion.Example 5($1) Dodge was robbed by an ex-convict the other night.
($2) The ex-convict tied him up because he wasn't cooperating.
($3) Then he took all the money and ran.Notice that in the discourse in Example 5 the semantic slanting should lead to theinterpretation of $3 as "Then \[the ex-convict\] took all the money and ran."
Thus, inthis text, the semantic slanting favors resolving Subject(S3) as Subject(SX), and thus itwould favor computing the Subject Focus of $2 to be Subject(SX).
However, notice thatthe other focusing factors in the text all favor the Subject(SY) (i.e., Dodge) to be thesubject focus of the complex clause.
For instance, pronominalization favors computingthe Subject Focus of $2 (which will be used to resolve Subject(S3)) to be Subject(SY)since Subject(SY) is pronominalized in $2, but Subject(SX) is not.
The focus historywould also favor the reading in which Subject(S3) is Dodge (i.e., corefers with theSubject(SY)) since Dodge was the Subject Focus of $1 and Dodge occurs in $2 as asubject.Even though only the factor of syntactic form favors the interpretation that agreeswith semantic slanting, of the 51 subjects in our experiment, 92% judged this discourseas acceptable.
This supports the hypothesis that the syntax is the most importantfocusing factor and that it favors resolving a subject in a simple sentence following an"SX because SY" sentence so that the subject cospecifies Subject(SX).The above hypothesis is further supported by the judgments given on a seconddiscourse:187Computational Linguistics Volume 25, Number 2Example 6($1) Dodge was robbed by an ex-convict the other night.
($2) The ex-convict tied him up because he wasn't cooperating.
($3) # Then he started screaming for help.
16In Example 6, one would expect subjects to judge the discourse to be "awkward"or "ambiguous" if the syntax factor overrides other focusing factors and causes Sub-ject(SX) to be the preferred referent for the subject of the subsequent sentence.
This isbecause the semantic slanting should lead to the interpretation f $3 as "Then \[Dodge\]started screaming for help," i.e., an interpretation for which Subject(S3)~Subject(SX).In fact, most subjects (82%), did judge the discourse as awkward or ambiguous.
Asa result, we have labeled ($3) with a "#',  which traditionally denotes pragmatic ill-formedness.To reiterate, in Example 6:?
On the basis of semantic slanting, Subject(S3)=Subject(SY) andSubject(S3)#Subject(SX).?
Subject Focus history would favor Subject(SY) for the Subject Focus of $2since Subject(SY)=Subject(S1) (i.e., the Subject Focus of $1).?
Pronominalization would favor Subject(SY) for the Subject Focus of $2since the referent of Subject(SY) is pronominalized in $2, but Subject(SX)is not.?
The discourse was judged "awkward" or "ambiguous.
"Contrast his with Example 5 where the focus history and pronominalization favorcomputing the Subject Focus of $2 to be Subject(SY), the semantic slanting indicatesSubject(S3) is Subject(SX), and the text was judged "acceptable.
"Taken together, these judgments uggest hat the reader prefers to resolve Sub-ject(S3) with Subject(SX) regardless of the other focusing factors since this would ex-plain the judgments as follows: In Example 6, the interpretation f Subject(S3) indicatedby this focusing preference would be at odds with the interpretation forced by the se-mantic slanting and the text was judged awkward; in Example 5, the interpretationindicated by this focusing preference would agree with the interpretation forced bythe semantic slanting and the text was judged acceptable.The appropriateness of this conclusion should be verified through a corpus anal-ysis.
We discuss how such analyses hould be performed in Section 6.5, and presentpreliminary results of such an analysis.6.5 Confirming Preferences and Extensions through Corpus AnalysesRecall that the second part of our methodology involves using a corpus analysis toverify the findings of the SSD phase.
In this section, we explain our methodology forverifying those findings by describing how we examined naturally occurring discourse16 In all of the discourses, $3began with then.
This word may indeed be influencing the experimentalresults; perhaps the complex sentence type should be considered "SX because SY.
Then...", anddiscourses without then need to be studied in a separate SSD experiment.
A preliminary such studyasking subjects for judgments on parallel texts with and without the then is included inSuri (1993).While the judgments of discourses without the then tended to agree with those with the then, theparticipants did not judge these two types of discourse identically.
This suggests that he then isinfluencing the focusing preferences and further suggests that he because sentences with the thenshould indeed be considered asa different type from those without the then.188Suri, McCoy, and DeCristofaro Extending Focusing FrameworksTable 2Data for a subject in Sn+l cospecifying an SX subject (but not an SY subject).An S,+1 subject pronoun cospecifies a subject in SX: 29An S,+1 subject nonpronoun cospecifies a subject in SX: 5Table 3Data for a subject in Sn+l cospecifying an SY subject (but not an SX subject).An S,+1 subject pronoun cospecifies a subject in SY: 13An S,+1 subject nonpronoun cospecifies a subject in SY: 6Table 4Data for a subject in Sn+l cospecifying an SX and an SY subject.An Sn+l subject pronoun cospecifies a subject in SX and a subject in SY: 22An S,+1 subject nonpronoun cospecifies a subject in SX and a subject in SY: 5to see how well the Prefer-SX hypothesis (proposed on the basis of the SemanticallySlanted Discourses experiment described above) predicted the correct referents of pro-nouns in a sentence following a sentence of the form "SX because SY.
"In the corpus analysis described below, we did not restrict our study of the corpusto cases where SX and SY were each a single clause, and thus for the discussion inthis section, Section 6.5, SX does not necessarily denote a single clause, and likewisefor SY.
We chose to consider cases where SX or SY was not a single clause becausethe number of candidates of the appropriate form was quite small and we did notwant to further limit the number of sentences that we could include in this corpusanalysis.
For each example in the corpus, one author coded the discourse, identifyingthe referents of the subject of SX, subject of SY, and subject of $3, and another authorchecked the coding to make sure it was reasonable.We concentrated our analysis on studying the resolution of a subject in a sentencefollowing a sentence of the form "SX because SY."
We analyzed 81 text sequenceswhere each text sequence contained an "SX because SY" sentence, Sn, followed byanother sentence, Sn+l, which had one or more subjects that was/were coreferentialwith at least one subject in Sn.
We were interested in which subject element(s) in the"SX because SY" sentence was/were being referred to by the subject(s) in the S,+1sentence.
From this analysis, we created three tables that captured the coreferencerelationships that we were interested in.
We looked at how often a subject in S,+1cospecified a subject of SX but not a subject of SY (and whether or not it occurredas a pronoun in Sn+l); this data is shown in Table 2.
We also looked at how often asubject in Sn+l cospecified a subject of SY but not a subject of SX (and whether or notit occurred as a pronoun in Sn+D; this data is shown in Table 3.
Finally, we lookedat how often a subject in S,+1 cospecified a subject of SX and a subject of SY (andwhether or not it occurred as a pronoun in S,+1); this data is shown in Table 4.We make the following comments:The corpora used for this study were the Brown corpus and severalworks of twentieth century literature that are in the public domain andare available on-line.
1717 At Project Gutenberg: http://www.gutenberg.org189Computational Linguistics Volume 25, Number 2?
The information i  Tables 2 to 4 is based on an analysis of 81 sentences(from the selected corpora) involving an "SX because SY" structure.
Weinitially extracted more of such sentences from the corpora.
We did notanalyze some of these sentences because they involved biblical writing(and thus a very different style of writing), and we did not analyzeothers because they could not be classified in a straightforward fashion(because they involved multiple levels of complexity, or raised too manyquestions about how to code the sentence, tc.).
Thus, this analysis isbased on 81 sentences.?
In some cases an NP in Sn+l that cospecified an element of Sn alsocospecified an Sn+l element that was prior to the NP in Sn+l.
Thus, theinterpretation f the NP might be based on the Sn+l element, rather thanthe S, element.
These cases were still counted like other cases where anS,+1 element cospecified an Sn element.?
Because S,+1 might be complex (in many instances it was), we write "AnSn+I subject pronoun / nonpronoun cospecifies ... " rather than "The Sn+Isubject pronoun/nonpronoun cospecifies .
.
.
.  "
Because Sn might becomplex (in many instances it was), we write ".. .
cospecifies a subject..." rather than ".. .
cospecifies the subject .
.
.
.
"While we believe that the data analyzed is not conclusive, we note that it did notappear to contradict our Prefer-SX Hypothesis.
We observe the following:?
A subject in Sn+ 1 was  more significantly more likely (34 times versus 19times, X 2 = 4.24, p < .05) to cospecify only an SX subject han tocospecify only an SY subject.
This suggests that a subject in SX (for an"SX because SY" sentence) is more likely to be a subject of a subsequentsentence than a subject in SY.?
A pronominal subject in Sn+l was significantly more likely (29 timesversus 13 times, X 2 = 6.10, p < .05) to cospecify only an SX subject hanto cospecify only an SY subject.
This suggests that a pronominal subjectin a sentence following an "SX because SY" sentence is more likely tocospecify the SX subject rather than the SY subject.?
An Sn+l subject cospecifying an SX subject was more likely to bepronominalized (85% pronominalization rate) than an Sn+l subjectcospecifying an SY subject (68% pronominalization rate).6.6 Implications for Proposed ExtensionAs noted above in Section 6.4, the Prefer-SX Hypothesis would indicate that RAFT/RAPR should be extended so that it computes the Subject Focus of an "SX becauseSY" sentence as Subject(SX).
Since this corpus analysis did not appear to contradict thehypothesis, it also did not appear to contradict the appropriateness of the proposedextension.
We point this out to clarify how a corpus analysis can be used to confirmproposed extensions, as well as confirming hypothesis about readers' preferences forpronoun interpretation.Also, we stress that the SSD Methodology and the hypothesis generated by ap-plications of the methodology have implications for extending other focusing frame-works, not just RAFT/RAPR.
(See Suri \[1993\] or Suri and McCoy \[1994\] for a discus-sion of the implications of the Prefer-SX Hypothesis for a pronoun resolution algorithm190Suri, McCoy, and DeCristofaro Extending Focusing Frameworkssuch as Brennan, Friedman, and Pollard \[1987\] based on centering.)
This is importantsince it entails that applications of the SSD Methodology have general implicationsfor focusing research, not just for extending the RAFT/RAPR framework.7.
Future WorkThe SSD methodology must be employed in order to derive extensions to each frame-work for every kind of complex sentence.
For example, sentences of the form "BecauseSX, SY" and "SX although SY" may have different extensions, and therefore will haveto be examined separately under this methodology.
However, we would like to be ableto predict he extension suggested by the first (SSD construction) part of the method-ology.
One way to arrive at these predictions is to use a feature-based hierarchy ofthe connectives that appear in the complex sentences, as in Knott and Mellish \[1996\].Then, if we have already found the proper extension for one complexity, say "SXbecause SY" sentences, we may predict that any connective that is synonymous (interms of features) with because will have the same extension (provided the connectiveis used in a syntactically analagous entence structure).
Thus, we have bypassed thefirst part of the methodology.
The second step of verifying the extension through acorpus analysis will still have to be performed.
If this extension cannot be verified,then the first step will have to be done anyway.Suri's (1993) critical analysis suggested the need to use the SSD Methodology totest the role of then and aspect in the interpretation ofpronouns in the SSD experiment.
TMWe stress that (because of the all the problems associated with corpus analyses thathave been discussed in this paper) there is no clear way to test the influence of then,the duration of events, or aspect using only a corpus analysis.As explained in Suri (1993), our claim that aspectual classification might play arole in the interpretation of pronouns in a subsequent sentence is distinct from thehypotheses of other researchers about the role of tense and aspect (e.g., Nakhimovsky1988; Reichman 1978) in pronoun interpretation.
In short, we believe Reichman (1978)only intended that tense and aspect could signal discourse segment boundaries, andthus indirectly influence pronoun interpretation, while Nakhimovsky (1988) claimsthat a change in time scale, aspectual class, or other temporal characteristics ouldsignal a new discourse segment, and thus, indirectly influence pronoun interpretation.We propose that aspectual classification might affect pronoun interpretation within adiscourse segment (Suri 1993).Suri also reviewed literature on NPl-biased and NP2-biased verbs (see Caramazzaet al \[1977\] or Suri \[1993\]) and the implications of this work for future analyses.8.
ConclusionsThe notion of local focusing and its influence on pronoun resolution has been founduseful in many aspects of NLP.
However, previous work on local focusing has ignoredcomplex sentences even though they are prevalent in naturally occurring text.
Theproblem that we faced was one of determining a reasonable way to extend a focusingalgorithm to handle these sentences.
Previous methodology (i.e., using semanticallyneutral text) was too simplistic and nearly impossible to utilize.
A solely corpus-basedanalysis was impossible because of the variety of a priori decisions that needed to be18 We thank Susan Brennan for first raising the question ofhow then affected the judgments in thisexperiment.
We note that Walker (1993) explored the role of now in centering.191Computational Linguistics Volume 25, Number 2made and because of the complexity of interaction among factors in naturally occurringdiscourses.
This work presents a methodology that calls for the systematic constructionof texts.
It relies on the potential tension of semantic factors with focusing factors toidentify possible extensions of a focusing framework to account for a particular kindof complex sentence.
The methodology has been used to extend a focusing framework(RAFT/RAPR) to handle one type of complex sentence ("SX because SY" sentences).We illustrated the SSD Methodology by 1) explaining how the first part of themethodology led to the Prefer-SX hypothesis (a hypothesis about how readers pre-fer to resolve subjects in a sentence following an "SX because SY" sentence); and2) discussing a (scaled-down) preliminary corpus analysis we performed to test thevalidity of the Prefer-SX hypothesis.
We relaxed the methodology for the purposes ofthe preliminary corpus analysis because of the enormous amount of work requiredto perform the corpus analysis properly and because we felt that the corpus analysiswould reveal more issues to be addressed prior to a proper corpus analysis.
As re-ported in this paper, the corpus analysis did not refute our Prefer-SX hypothesis, andit did indeed reveal more issues that need to be addressed in this type, or any othertype, of corpus analysis to examine focusing methodologies.Note that one very important point raised by the preliminary corpus analysis isthat the numbers derived during a corpus analysis are prone to represent not just theinfluence of the focusing framework, but the influence of world knowledge, semantics,and other pragmatic factors.
Therefore, corpus analyses must be considered with thisin mind.
Because the problems that arose during our preliminary corpus analysiswill arise during any kind of corpus analysis, we believe that our SSD Methodology isimportant for deciding how to extend a given focusing framework, and for comparingtwo focusing frameworks.In fact, we feel that a corpus analysis to verify findings based on the SSD Method-ology should be withheld until the processing of many kinds of complex sentencesusing the SSD Methodology has been analyzed.
It would be better still to have aninference tool with which to reject referents based on semantics, world knowledge,pragmatics, etc.
This would allow us to apply focusing algorithms to a corpus andautomate the comparison of focusing algorithms, by adding functions to track andcompute the frequency information (like the frequency information shown in Tables 2to 4) that is needed for a corpus analysis.The reader should note that the preferences for pronoun resolution that we iden-tiffed (i.e., the Prefer-SX Hypothesis) refute an assumption sometimes made by re-searchers regarding complex sentences: that the clauses of complex sentences can beprocessed in a strictly linear order.
Our findings indicate that the appropriate contentsof the focusing data structures after processing $2 should be much more heavily influ-enced by the SX clause (and not by the SY clause, as the previous assumption wouldrequire).
We stress that these findings are relevant for other focusing frameworks, notjust RAFT/RAPR, and they indicate the importance of studying complex sentences.Furthermore, as explained in detail in Suri (1993), the SSD Methodology can alsobe used to compare local focusing frameworks.
Thus, this methodology allows thestudy of focusing phenomena nd algorithms related to focusing phenomena.AcknowledgmentsWe thank Jeff Lidz, John Hughes, and theanonymous reviewers for their manyhelpful comments on this research.
Wethank our informants for their help andtime in providing us with judgments.ReferencesBrennan, Susan E. 1998.
Reference and localstructure in interactive discourse.
InMarilyn A. Walker, Aravind K. Joshi, andEllen F. Prince, editors, Centering Theory inDiscourse.
Oxford University Press.192Suri, McCoy, and DeCristofaro Extending Focusing FrameworksBrennan, Susan E., Marilyn W. Friedman,and Carl J. Pollard.
1987.
A centeringapproach to pronouns.
In Proceedings ofthe25th Annual Meeting, pages 155-162.Association for ComputationalLinguistics.Caramazza, Alfonso, Ellen Grober,Catherine Garvey, and Jack Yates.
1977.Comprehension f anaphoric pronouns.Journal of Verbal Learning and VerbalBehavior, 16:601-609.Carter, David.
1987.
Interpreting Anaphors inNatural Language Texts.
John Wiley andSons, New York.Dahl, Deborah.
1986.
Focusing andreference resolution in PUNDIT.
InProceedings ofthe 1986 National Conferenceon Arti~'cial Intelligence, pages 1,083-1,088,Philadelphia, PA, August.Dahl, Deborah and Catherine N. Ball.
1990.Reference resolution in PUNDIT.Technical Report CAIT-SLS-9004, UNISYS,Paoli, PA, March.Gordon, Peter C., Barbara J. Grosz, andLaura A. Gilliom.
1993.
Pronouns, names,and the centering of attention indiscourse.
Cognitive Science, 17(3):311-347.Grosz, Barbara J., Aravind K. Joshi, andScott Weinstein.
1983.
Providing a unifiedaccount of definite noun phrases indiscourse.
In Proceedings ofthe 21st AnnualMeeting, pages 44 50, Cambridge, MA,June.
Association for ComputationalLinguistics.Grosz, Barbara J., Aravind K. Joshi, andScott Weinstein.
1995.
Centering: Aframework for modeling the localcoherence of discourse.
ComputationalLinguistics, 21(2):203-225.Hobbs, Jerry.
1976.
Pronoun resolution.Technical Report 76-1, Department ofComputer Science, City College, CityUniversity of New York.Hobbs, Jerry.
1978.
Resolving pronounreferences.
Lingua, 44:311-338.Hoffman, Beryl.
1998.
Word order,information structure, and centering inturkish.
In Marilyn A. Walker, Aravind K.Joshi, and Ellen F. Prince, editors,Centering Theory in Discourse.
OxfordUniversity Press.Hudson-D'Zmura, Susan and Michael K.Tanenhaus.
1998.
Assigning antecedentsto ambiguous pronouns: The role of thecenter of attention as the defaultasignment.
In Marilyn A. Walker,Aravind K. Joshi, and Ellen F. Prince,editors, Centering Theory in Discourse.Oxford University Press.Kameyama, Megumi.
1986.
Aproperty-sharing constraint in centering.In Proceedings ofthe 24th Annual Meeting,pages 200-206, Cambridge, MA.Association for ComputationalLinguistics.Kameyama, Megumi.
1998.
Intrasententialcentering: A case study.
In Marilyn A.Walker, Aravind K. Joshi, and Ellen F.Prince, editors, Centering Theory inDiscourse.
Oxford University Press.Kameyama, Megumi, Rebecca Passonneau,and Massimo Poesio.
1993.
Temporalcentering.
In Proceedings ofthe 31st AnnualMeeting, pages 70-77.
Association forComputational Linguistics.Knott, Alistair and Chris Mellish.
1996.
Afeature-based account of the relationssignalled by sentence and clauseconnectives.
Language and Speech,39(2-3):143-183.Lappin, Shalom and Herbert J. Leass.
1994.An algorithm for pronominal anaphoraresolution.
Computational Linguistics,20(4):535-561.Linson, Brian.
1993.
A distributionalanalysis of discourse transitions.
InProceedings ofthe Workshop on CenteringTheory in Naturally Occurring Discourse,Institute for Research in CognitiveScience, University of Pennsylvania.Nakhimovsky, Alexander.
1988.
Aspect,aspectual class, and the temporalstructure of narrative.
ComputationalLinguistics, 14(2):29-43.Palmer, Martha S., Deborah A. Dahl,Rebecca J. Schiffman, Lynette Hirschman,Marcia Linebarger, and John Dowding.1986.
Recovering implicit information.
InProceedings ofthe 24th Annual Meeting,pages 10-19, June.
Association forComputational Linguistics.Reichman, Rachel.
1978.
Conversationalcoherency.
Cognitive Science, 2:283-327.Sidner, Candace L. 1979.
Towards aComputational Theory of Definite AnaphoraComprehension in English Discourse.
Ph.D.thesis, MIT, June.Strube, Michael.
1996.
Processing complexsentences in the centering framework.
InProceedings ofthe 34th Annual Meeting,pages 378-380.
Association forComputational Linguistics.Strube, Michael.
1998.
Never look back: Analternative to centering.
In Proceedings ofCOLING-ACL "98: 36th Annual Meeting ofthe Association for Computational Linguisticsand 17th International Conference onComputational Linguistics, Montreal,Quebec, Canada, pages 1,251-1,257.Suri, Linda Z.
1993.
Extending FocusingFrameworks to Process Complex Sentences andto Correct he Written English of ProJicient193Computational Linguistics Volume 25, Number 2Signers of American Sign Language.
Ph.D.thesis, University of Delaware.
Availableas Dept.
of CIS Technical Report TR-94-21.Suri, Linda Z. and Kathleen F. McCoy.
1993.Focusing and Pronoun Resolution inParticular Kinds of Complex Sentences.
InProceedings ofthe Workshop on CenteringTheory in Naturally Occurring Discourse,Institute for Research in CognitiveScience, University of Pennsylvania.Suri, Linda Z. and Kathleen F. McCoy.
1994.RAFT/RAPR and centering: Acomparison and discussion of problemsrelated to processing complex sentences.Computational Linguistics, 20(2).Walker, Marilyn.
1989.
Evaluating discourseprocessing algorithms.
In Proceedings ofthe27th Annual Meeting, pages 251-261.Association for ComputationalLinguistics.Walker, Marilyn.
1993.
Initial Contexts andShifting Centers.
In Proceedings oftheWorkshop on Centering Theory in NaturallyOccurring Discourse, Institute for Researchin Cognitive Science, University ofPennsylvania.Walker, Marilyn, Masayo Iida, and SharonCote.
1994.
Japanese discourse and theprocess of centering.
ComputationalLinguistics, 20(2).194
