SRI INTERNATIONAL :DESCRIPTION OF THE FASTUS SYSTE MUSED FOR MUC- 4Jerry R .
Hobbs, Douglas Appelt, Mabry Tyson, John Bear, and David IsraelSRI InternationalMenlo Park, California 94025hobbs?ai .sri .com(415) 859-222 9INTRODUCTIO NFASTUS is a (slightly permuted) acronym for Finite State Automaton Text Understanding System .It is a system for extracting information from free text in English, and potentially other languages aswell, for entry into a database, and potentially for other applications .
It works essentially as a cascaded ,nondeterministic finite state automaton .It is an information extraction system, rather than a text understanding system.
This distinction isimportant .
In information extraction, only a fraction of the text is relevant .
In the case of the MUC- 4terrorist reports, probably only about 10% of the text is relevant .
There is a pre-defined, relatively simple ,rigid target representation that the information is mapped into .
The subtle nuances of meaning and th ewriter's goals in writing the text are of no interest .
This contrasts with text understanding, where the ai mis to make sense of the entire text, where the target representation must accommodate the full complexitie sof language, and where we want to recognize the nuances of meaning and the writer's goals .The MUC evaluations are information extraction tasks, not text understanding tasks .
The TACITU Ssystem that .was used for MUC-3 in 1991 is a text-understanding system [1] .
Using it for the informationextraction task gave us a high precision, the highest of any of the sites .
However, our recall was mediocre ,and the system was extremely slow .
Our motivation in building the FASTUS system was to have a syste mthat was more appropriate to the information extraction task .The inspiration for FASTUS was threefold .
First, we were struck by the strong performance that th egroup at the University of Massachusetts got out of a fairly simple system [2] .
It was clear they were no tdoing anything like the depth of preprocessing, syntactic analysis, or pragmatics that was being done by th esystems at SRI, General Electric, or New York University.
They were not doing a lot of processing .
Theywere doing the right processing .The second source of inspiration was Pereira's work on finite-state approximations of grammars [3] ,especially the speed of the implementation .Speed was the third source .
It was simply too embarassing to have to report at the MUC-3 conferenc ethat it took TACITUS 36 hours to process 100 messages .
FASTUS has brought that time down to 1 1minutes .The operation of FASTUS is comprised of four steps, described in the next four sections .1.
Triggering2.
Recognizing Phrases3.
Recognizing Pattern s4.
Merging Incident sThe system is implemented in CommonLisp and runs on both Suns and Symbolics machines .TRIGGERINGIn the first pass over a sentence, trigger words are searched for .
There is at least one trigger word fo reach pattern of interest that has been defined .
Generally, these are the least frequent words required by th epattern .
For example, in the pattern268take <HumanTarget> hostage"hostage" rather than " take" is the trigger word.
There are at present 253 trigger words .In addition, the names of people identified in previous sentences as victims are also treated, for theremainder of the text, as trigger words .
This allows us, for example, to pick up occupations of victims whe nthey occur in sentences with no other triggers, as i nHector Oqueli and Gilda Flores were assassinated yesterday .Gilda Flores was a member of the Democratic Socialist Party (PSD) of Guatemala .Finally, on this pass, full names are searched for, so that subsequent references to surnames can be linkedto the corresponding full names .
Thus, if one sentence refers to "Ricardo Alfonso Castellar" but does no tmention his kidnapping, while the next sentence mentions the kidnapping but only uses his surname, we ca nenter Castellar ' s full name into the template .In Message 48 of TST2, 21 of 30 sentences were triggered in this fashion .
13 of the 21 triggered sentenceswere relevant .
There is very little penalty for passing irrelevant sentences on to further processing since th esystem is so fast, especially on irrelevant sentences .Eight of the nine nontriggered sentences were irrelevant .
The one relevant, nontriggered sentence wa sThere were seven children, including four of the vice president 's children, in the home at thetime .It does not help to recognize this sentence as relevant as we do not have a pattern that would match it .The missing pattern i s<HumanTarget> be in <PhysicalTarget >which would pick up human targets who were in known physical targets .
In order to have this sentenc etriggered, we would have to take the head nouns of known physical targets to be temporary triggers for th eremainder of the text, as we do with named human targets .RECOGNIZING PHRASESThe problem of syntactic ambiguity is AI-complete .
That is, we will not have systems that reliably parseEnglish sentences correctly until we have encoded much of the real-world knowledge that people bring t obear in their language comprehension .
For example, noun phrases cannot be reliably identified because of th eprepositional phrase attachment problem .
However, certain syntactic constructs can be reliably identified .One of these is the noun group, that is, the noun phrase up to the head noun .
Another is what we arecalling the "verb group", that is, the verb together with its auxilliaries and embedded adverbs .
Moreover ,an analysis that.
identifies these elements gives us exactly the units we most need for recognizing patterns o finterest .Pass Two in FASTUS identifies noun groups, verb groups, and several critical word classes, includin gprepositions, conjunctions, relative pronouns, and the words "ago" and "that" .
Phrases that are subsume dby larger phrases are discarded .
Overlapping phrases are rare, but where they occur they are kept .
Thi ssometimes compensates for incorrect analysis in Pass Two .Noun groups are recognized by a 37-state nondeterministic finite state automaton .
This encompassesmost of the complexity that can occur in English noun groups, including numbers, numerical modifier slike "approximately", other quantifiers and determiners, participals in adjectival position, comparative an dsuperlative adjectives, conjoined adjectives, and arbitrary orderings and conjunctions of prenominal noun sand noun-like adjectives .
Thus, among the noun groups recognized areapproximately 5 k gmore than 30 peasant sthe newly elected president,the largest leftist political forc ea government and military reaction269Verb groups are recognized by an 18-state nondeterministic finite state machine .
They are tagged asActive, Passive, Gerund, and Infinitive .
Verbs that are locally ambiguous between active and passive senses ,as the verb "kidnapped" the the two sentences ,Several men kidnapped the mayor today.Several men kidnapped yesterday were released today .are tagged as Active/Passive and Pass Three resolves the ambiguity if necessary .Certain relevant predicate adjectives, such as "dead" and "responsible", are recognized, as are certai nadverbs, such as "apparently" in "apparently by" .
However, most adverbs and predicate adjectives and man yother classes of words are ignored altogether .
Unknown words are ignored unless they occur in a contex tthat could indicate they are surnames .Lexical information is read at compile time, and a hash table associating words with their transitions i nthe finite-state machines is constructed .
There is a hash table entry for every morphological variant of th ewords .
Altogether there are 43,000 words in the hash table .
During the actual running of the system on thetexts, only the state transitions are accessed .The output of the second pass for the first sentence of Message 48 of TST2 is as follows :Noun Group :Salvadoran President-elec tName :Alfredo Cristian iVerb Group :condemnedNoun Group :the terroristVerb Group :killingPreposition :ofNoun Group :Attorney Genera lName :Roberto Garcia AlvaradoConjunction :andVerb Group :accusedNoun Group :the Farabundo Marti National Liberation Front (FMLN )Preposition :ofNoun Group :the crimeThe verb groups "condemned" and "accused" are labelled "Active/Passive" .
The word "killing" which wasincorrectly identified as a verb group is labelled as a Gerund .
This mistake is common enough that we hav eimplemented patterns to get around it in Pass Three .On Message 48 of TST2, 243 of 252 phrases, or 96 .4%, were correctly recognized .
Of the 9 mistakes, 5were due to nouns being misidentified as verbs or verbs as nouns .
3 were due to a dumb bug in the code forrecognizing dates that crept into the system a day before the official run and meant that no explicit dateswere recognized except in the header .
(This resulted in the loss of 1% in recall in the official run of TST3 .
)One mistake was due to bit rot .We implemented and considered using a part-of-speech tagger to help in this phase, but there was n oclear improvement and it would have doubled the time the system took to process a message .RECOGNIZING PATTERN SThe in put to the third pass of FASTUS is a list of phrases in the order in which they occur .
Anythin gthat is not included in a phrase in the second pass is ignored in the third pass .
The state transitions aredriven off the head words in the phrases .
In addition, some nonhead words can trigger state transitions .
Forexample, "bomb blast" is recognized as a bombing .We implemented 95 patterns for the 1VIUC-4 application .
Among the patterns are the following ones thatare relevant to Message 48 of TST2 :killing of <HumanTarget><GovtOfficial> accused <PerpOrg>270bomb was placed by <Perp> on <PhysicalTarget ><Perp> attacked <Huma.nTarget> ' s <PhysicalTarget> with <Device><HumanTarget> was injure d<HumanTarget> 's bodyAs patterns are recognized, incident structures are built up .
For example, the sentenceGuerrillas attacked Merino's home in San Salvador 5 days ago with explosives .matches the pattern<Perp> attacked <HumanTarget> ' s <PhysicalTarget> in <Location ><Date> with <Device>This causes the following incident to be constructed .Incident :ATTACK/BOMBIN GDate :14 Apr 8 9Location :El Salvador : San Salvado rInstr:"explosives "Perp :"guerrillas "PTarg:"Merino's home"HTarg :" Merino"The incident type is an attack or a bombing, depending on the Device .
There was a bug in this patter nthat caused the system to miss picking up the explosives as the instrument .
In addition, it is disputablewhether Merino should be listed as a human target .
In the official key template for this message, he is not .But it seems to us that if someone's home is attacked, it is an attack on him .A certain amount of pseudo-syntax is done while patterns are being recognized .
In the first place, thematerial between the end of the subject noun group and the main verb group must be read over .
There arepatterns to accomplish this .
Two of them are as follows :Subject {Preposition NounGroup}* VerbGrou pSubject Relpro {NounGroup Other}* VerbGroup {NounGroup I Other}* VerbGroupThe first of these patterns reads over prepositional phrases .
The second over relative clauses .
The verbgroup at the end of these patterns takes the subject noun group as its subject .
There is another pattern fo rcapturing the content encoded in relative clauses :Subject Relpro {NounGroup Other}* VerbGrou pSince the finite-state mechanism is nondeterministic, the full content can be extracted from the sentenc eThe mayor, who was kidnapped yesterday, was found dead today .One branch discovers the incident encoded in the relative clause .
Another branch marks time through th erelative clause and then discovers the incident in the main clause .
These incidents are then merged .A similar device is used for conjoined verb phrases .
The patternSubject VerbGroup {NounGroup ~ Other}* Conjunction VerbGrou pallows the machine to nondeterministically skip over the first conjunct and associate the subject with th everb group in the second conjunct .
Thus, in the sentenceSalvadoran President-elect Alfredo Cristiani condemned the terrorist killing of Attorney Gen-eral Roberto Garcia .
Alvarado and accused the Farabundo Marti National Liberation Fron t(FMLN) of the crime .271one branch will recognize the killing of Garcia and another the fact that Cristiani accused the FMLN .The second sort of "pseudo-syntax" that is done while recognizing patterns is attaching genitives, "of "complements, and appositives to their heads, and recognizing noun group conjunctions .
Thus, i nseven children, including four of the vice-president 's childrenthe genitive "vice-president's" will be attached to "children" .
The "of" complement will be attached to"four", and since "including" is treated as a conjunction, the entire phrase will be recognized as conjoinednoun groups .In Message 48 of TST2, there were 18 relevant patterns .
FASTUS recognized 12 of them completely .Because of bugs in implemented patterns, 3 more patterns were recognized only partially .
One implemente dpattern failed completely because of a bug .
Specifically, in the sentenceA niece of Merino's was injured .the genitive marker took the system into a state in which it was not expecting a verb group .Two more patterns were missing entirely .
The pattern<HumanTa.rget1> <VerbGroup> with <HumanTarget2 >would have matche d. .
.
the attorney general was traveling with two bodyguards .and consequently would have recognized the two bodyguards as human targets along with the attorne ygeneral .The second pattern i s<HumanTarget> be in <PhysicalTarget>mentioned above .A rudimentary sort of pronoun resolution is done by FASTUS .
If (and only if) a pronoun appears in aHuman Target slot, an antecedent is sought .
First the noun groups of the current sentence are searchedfrom left to right, up to four phrases before the pronoun .
Then the previous sentences are searched similarl yfor an acceptable noun group in a left-to-right fashion, the most recent first .
This is continued until th elast.
paragraph break, and if nothing is found by then, the system gives up .
A noun group is an acceptableantecedent if it is a possible human target and agrees with the pronoun in number .
This algorithm worked i n100% of the relevant cases in the first 200 messages of the development set .
However, in its one applicationin Message 48 of TST2, it failed .
The example isAccording to the police and Garcia Alvarado 's driver, who escaped unscathed, the attorneygeneral was traveling with two bodyguards .
One of them was injured .The algorithm incorrectly identifies " them " as "the police" .MERGING INCIDENT SAs incidents are found they are merged with other incidents found in the same sentence .
Those remainin gat the end of the processing of the sentence are then merged, if possible, with the incidents found in previou ssentences .For example, in the first sentence of Message 48 of TST2, the incident .Incident :KILLIN GPerp :-Confid :-HTa.rg :" Roberto Garcia Alvarado"is generated from the phrase272killing of Attorney General Roberto Garcia Alvarad owhile the inciden tIncident :INCIDEN TPerp :FML NConfid :Suspected or Accused by AuthoritiesHTarg :is generated from the clauseSalvadoran President-elect Alfredo Cristiani .
.
.
accused the Farabundo Marti National Liberatio nFront (FMLN)These two incidents are merged, by merging the KILLING and the INCIDENT into a KILLING, and b ytaking the union of the other slots .Incident :KILLIN GPerp :FMLNConfid :Suspected or Accused by Authoritie sHTa.rg :"Roberto Garcia Alvarado "Merging is blocked if the incidents have incompatible types, such as a KIDNAPPING and a BOMBING .
I tis also blocked if they have incompatible dates or locations .There are fairly elaborate rules for merging the noun groups that appear in the Perpetrator, Physica lTarget, and Human Target slots .
A name can be merged with a precise description, as "Garcia" with"attorney general", provided the description is consistent with the other descriptions for that name .
Aprecise description can be merged with a vague description, such as "person", with the precise descriptionas the result .
Two precise descriptions can be merged if they are semantically compatible .
The description s"priest " and "Jesuit " are compatible, while "priest " and "peasant " are not .
When precise descriptions aremerged, the longest string is taken as the result .
If merging is impossible, both noun groups are listed in th eslot .We experimented with a further heuristic for when to merge incidents .
If the incidents include name dhuman targets, we do not merge them unless there is an overlap in the names .
This heuristic results in abou ta 1% increase in recall .
In Message 48 of TST2, the heuristic prevents the Bombing of Garcia Alvarado' scar from being merged with the Bombing of Merino 's home .There were 13 merges altogether in processing Message 48 of TST2 .
Of these, 11 were valid .One of the two bad merges was particularly unfortunate .
The phrase.
.
.
Garcia Alvarado's driver, who escaped unscathed, .
.
.correctly generated an attack incident with no injury to the human target, the driver :Incident :ATTAC KPerp :PTarg :HTarg :"Garcia Alvarado's driver"HEffect :No InjuryThis was merged with the attack on Merino 's homeIncident :BOMBINGPerp :"guerrillas"PTarg :"Merino's home"HTarg :"Merino"HEffect :273to yield the combined incidentIncident :BOMBINGPerp :"guerrillas "PTarg :"Merino ' s home "HTarg :"Merino" : "Garcia Alvarado 's driver "HEffect :No InjuryThat is, it was assumed that Merino was the driver .
The reason for this mistake was that while a certai namount of consistency checking is done before merging victims, and while the system knows that drivers an dvice presidents-elect are disjoint sets, the fact that Merino was the vice president-elect was recorded only i na table of titles, and consistency checking did not consult that table .ERROR ANALYSISFASTUS made 25 errors on Message 48 of TST2, where a wrong answer, a missing answer, and aspurious answer are all counted as errors .
(There is in principle no limit to the number of possible errors ,since arbitrarily many spurious entries could be given .
However, practically the number of possible error sis around 80 .
If no entries are made in the templates, that counts as 55 errors .
If all the entries are madeand are correct, but combined into a single template, that counts as 48 errors?the 24 missing entries in th esmaller template and the 24 spurious entries in the larger .
)The sources of the errors are as follows :Missing Patterns (2)9Bad Merges (2 of 13)7Military "armored car" Filtered Out4Answer Disputable3Bug in Existing Pattern2Bad Pronoun Resolution1Mysterious1Because of the missing patterns, we failed to find the children and the bodyguards as human targets .The bad merges resulted in the driver being put into the wrong template .
The armored car was found as aphysical target in the attack against Garcia Alvarado, but armored cars are viewed as military, and militarytargets are filtered out just before the templates are generated .
The disputable answer is Merino as a huma ntarget in the bombing of his home .We do not know to what extent this pattern of causes of errors is representative of the performance o fthe system on the corpus as a whole .FUTURE DIRECTION SIf we had had one more month to work on the MUC-4 task, we would have spent the first week developin ga rudimentary pattern specification language .
We believe that with about two months work we could develo pa langauge that would allow a novice user to he able to begin to specify patterns in a new domain withi nhours of being introduced to the system .
The pattern specification language would allow the user to defin estructures, to specify patterns in regular expressions interrupted by assignments to fields of the structures ,and to define a sort hierarchy to control the merging of structures .We would also like to apply the system to a new domain .
Our experience with the MUC-4 task leads u sto believe we could achieve reasonable performance on the new domain within two months .Finally, it.
would be interesting to try to convert FASTUS to a new language .
There is not much linguisti cknowledge built into the system.
What there is probably amounted to no more than two weeks coding .
Forthis reason, we believe it would require no more than one or two months to convert the system to anotherlanguage .
This is true even for a language as seemingly dissimilar to English as Japanese .
In fact, ourapproach to recognizing phrases was inspired in part by the bunsetsu analysis of Japanese .274SUMMARYThe advantages of the FASTUS system are as follows :?
It is conceptually simple .
It is a cascaded finite-state automaton .
?The basic system is relatively small, although the dictionary and other lists are potentially very large .?
It is effective .
Only General Electric 's system performed significantly better than FASTUS, and it ha sbeen under development for a number of years .?
It has very fast run time .
The average time for analyzing one message is less than 7 seconds .?
In part because of the fast run time, it has a very fast development time .
This is also true because th esystem provides a very direct link between the texts being analyzed and the data being extracted .FASTUS is not a text understanding system.
It is an information extraction system .
But for informationextraction tasks, it is perhaps the most convenient and most effective system that has been developed .ACKNOWLEDGEMENT SThe research was funded by the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency under Office of Nava lResearch contracts N00014-90-C-0220, and by an internal research and development grant from SRI Inter -national .REFERENCE S[1]Hobbs, Jerry R ., Stickel, Mark, Appelt, Douglas, and Martin, Paul, " Interpretation as Abduction" , SRIInternational Artificial Intelligence Center Technical Note 499, December 1990 .
[2] Lehnert, Wendy, Claire Cardie, David Fisher, Ellen Riloff, and Robert Williams, 1991.
"Description o fthe CIRCUS System as Used for MUC-3", Proceedings, Third Message Understanding Conference (MUC-3) ,San Diego, California, pp .
223-233 .
[3]Pereira, Fernando, 1990 .
"Finite-State Approximations of Grammars", Proceedings, DARPA Speech an dNatural Language Workshop, Hidden Valley, Pennsylvania, pp .
20-25 .275
