MCDONNELL DOUGLAS ELECTRONIC SYSTEMS COMPANY :DESCRIPTION OF THE TEXUS SYSTEM AS USED FOR MUC- 4Amnon Meyers and David de HilsterMcDonnell Douglas Electronic Systems Compan yAdvanced Computing Technologies Lab1801 E. St. Andrew PlaceSanta Ana, CA 92705-6520(vox, hilster)@young .mdc.com(714) 566-595 6INTRODUCTION AND APPROACHUnlike most natural language processing (NLP) systems, TexUS (Text Understanding System) is being developedas a domain-independent shell, to facilitate the application of language analysis to a variety of tasks and domains ofdiscourse .
Our work not only develops robust and generic language analysis capabilities, but also elaborate sknowledge representations, knowledge engineering methods, and convenient interfaces for knowledge acquisition .TexUS builds on INLET (Interactive Natural Language Engineering Tool) [1][2], which was used for MUC3 .
Bothdescend from VOX (Vocabulary Extension System) [3] [4], which was developed from 1983-87 at UCI and 1988-90at MDESC .
Many analysis, knowledge representation, and knowledge acquisition ideas from VOX have evolved i nconstructing TexUS .
In particular, TexUS (1) implements completely new, robust, and tailorable analysi salgorithms ; (2) embeds analyzer data structures within the knowledge representation; (3) supports interactivegraphical knowledge engineering ; (4) runs in C on Sun workstations, to improve portability and speed; and (5 )employs a pragmatic and domain-independent knowledge representation framework .
TexUS and INLET differprimarily in the strength of the analysis capability .
Figure 1 exemplifies the graphical utilities available in TexUS .Figure 1.
TexUS provides a host of interactive graphic tools for NLP developmentTexUS : Text Understanding System6/11/37 10 :17 (Small Screen )In r0)Next Unknown)TST2C4-0048?
SAN SALVADOR, 19 APR 89 (ACAII-EFE) -- (TENT] SALVADORA NPRESIDENT-ELECT ALFREDO CRISTIaNI =HOMED THE TERRORIST KILLING OFATTORNEY GENERAL ROBERTO GARCIA ALVARADO AND ACCUSED THE FARABUNDOMARTI NATIONAL LIBERATION FRONT (FNLN) OF THE CRIME .119647 .
121018	 >d_np_d.t>(npl Rio.)
the ties120223	 >Idst> th e120242 .
121018	 >I noun)(nounl ties) ties118694 .
121018	 )v_r .f_ties)(nounl time) tim e118695	 >1 Rime> tie*119194	 >1 .)
.118832	 )(sent) a 15 - year - old niece of merino ' s Na injured .119211	 )(sent) a 15 - year - old niece of merino 's a n s injured119437.
121064	 >d_np_d.t>(npiniec .)
a 15 - year - old niece120283	 >ldet) e120302	 >ladi) 15 - year - ol d118180	 >x_alpha_dasb>(adj) 15 - year - ol d118189	 >INildl> 15modal adv haw adv be adv verb-reduce-) p_ vp_full~s_np_unembclan class verb claw verb ties.
cl.
.s^tJ~ful lm.t1LedJ_nouisyntax syntax claw syntax class syntax syntax?
fibasic basic syntax basic syntax basic basic weptletbasic basic N_vp_waR.. x_pro_y_wa(Final Tree)(Screen) CQ Sort : C Of fLeft : 3 Right : 3 Within : 0Processed :Natche20 7The system we used at MUC3 was new (under development for 9 months) and incomplete .
In essence, asophisticated skimming system carried the analysis burden .
Since that time, we have implemented a comprehensiveanalyzer that includes the following phases : (1) key pattern search, which locates potentially interesting texts an dtext fragments; (2) pre-processing, where idiomatic constructs are collapsed in bottom-up fashion ; (3) syntacticanalysis, which uses primarily top-down mechanisms to successively segment text into finer-grained units, i .e .
,paragraphs, sentences, clauses, and components ; (4) semantic: analysis, which extracts and standardizes informatio nfound in the parse tree; (5) discourse analysis, which traverses the semantic representation to establish relationship sbetween events, actors, objects, and other cases; and (6) back-end processing, which converts the interna lrepresentation produced by the analyzer to task-specific output .
Table 1 highlights differences between the TexUSand INLET systems .MUC3(INLET) MUC4(TexUS)DICTIONARY -5k (including inflected forms) -90k (with p.o .s ., root forms only)LEXICAL ?
minimal ?
2 spelling correctors?
n-grams for Spanish & English?
morphological analysis?
unknown word processorSYNTAX ?
embedded in semantic rules ?separate syntactic segmentation?
no parse tree ?syntactic parse treeSEMANTICS ?
actor/object extraction ?
parse tree traversal?
extraction of semantic casesDISCOURSE ?
minimal ?
anaphora?
composite events.
actors .
& objectsTable 1 .
TexUS builds on INLET analysis capabilitiesThe algorithms provided with TexUS support truly robust analysis .
Construction of useful parse trees does no tdepend on complete syntactic characterization of the text, and succeeds even in the presence of ungrammatical ,terse, and garbled text abounding in unknown words and phrases .
This is accomplished by using grammar rules tha tsuccessively relax constraints .
For example, one hierarchy of grammar rules is dedicated to segmenting clauses int ocomponents (e .g., noun and verb phrases).
Rules that represent the strongest confidence (such as "det quan ad jnoun" with no optional pans) are applied first.
If these fail, rules with optionality are applied next (e .g., with "det"missing) .
Next, rules containing wildcard elements (e .g ., a wildcard "noun" element) but allowing no optionality areapplied, followed by rules with wildcards and optionality .
In this way, we attempt to match the text to rules wit hhighest confidence first (the ordering interleaves, e.g ., rules for noun phrases and verb phrases, to maximiz econfidence).
Using rules with wildcards and little optionality allows the analyzer to characterize fragments of textcontaining unknown words with reasonable confidence in many cases.
Such rules also support automatedknowledge acquisition (See section 2 .2).The parsing mechanisms are driven by hierarchies of grammar rules .
Much of our analyzer development thu sconsists of refining these rule sets, rather than building code .
Further, we have developed generic analysi smechanisms that serve multiple tasks, depending on the rule sets they are given as parameters .
Building analyzersfor new tasks is substantially reduced to selecting and using existing analysis mechanisms and creating rule set swhen needed for new domains .
We are currently developing an interactive graphical analyzer tool to simplif yenhancement of the analyzer algorithms .In order to exercise the NLP shell approach taken in TexUS, we are developing analyzers for Army SALUT Emessages and texts provided by Federal Express .
The most important validation of our approach was provided atMUC3.
With only 2 man-months of customization, we achieved performance comparable to sites that devotedabout one man-year of effort.
Similarly, 3 .5 man-months of customization for MUC4 have brought us to the samelevel as before, but with much greater potential for enhanced performance in the near term .20 8SYSTEM COMPONENTSTexUS comprises the following major components: knowledge acquisition system, analysis system, knowledgebase, knowledge management system, and primitive support system (see Figure 2) .INPUTTEXTLANGUAGEANALYZEROUTPUTTEMPLATE SUSERINPUTlKNOWLEDG EACQUISITIONSYSTEM?
KB Edito r?
Rule Edito r?
Vocabulary Too l?
Attribute Tool?
Text Too l?
Dictionary Tool?
Tokenizatio n?Lexical?
Syntacti c?
Semanti c?
Discours e?
Template-GenerationKNOWLEDGEBASE?
Linguistic?
Conceptua l?
Domain?
Dictionary?
Analyze rFigure 2.
Overview of TexUS systemAnalysis SystemTexUS provides tailorable analysis capabilities .
Rather than providing a monolithic analyzer that must be applied toall tasks, we have provided a set of functions that can be mixed and matched to easily construct an analyzer for anew task .
Analysis functions perform tasks such as : (1) tokenize the input text, (2) perform morphological analysi sand lexical lookup, (3) locate keywords and key phrases within a text, (4) apply rules to segment text, (5) appl yrules to match segments of a text, and (6) perform semantic analysis on parse trees .
Functions can apply top downor bottom up, a single or multiple times per node of the parse tree, recursively or not, and so on .
Functions typicall yapply a hierarchy of grammar rules to the parse tree, so that augmenting the analyzer often consists of modifying oradding grammar rules, rather than code.
Modifying the analyzer code most often consists of adding calls to existin gfunctions, rather than implementing new functions .texttokenswords ??
segmentscasesevents-a.- templatesLexica lAnalysi s?
r phobgy.
spelH ngcomedian?
numbers?lief.1 phrase.?
date.
times?
proper names.. .SyntaticAnalysi s?
key words/phrasessentences?
clause s?
components?
syntadkcclasses?
words.. .SemanticAnalysi s?act?act?
object?
Instrument?
location?
date.
..piscourseAnalysi s?
anaphors?
eventsegmentafan?
compostsevents, adore.d eds.
..Templat eFilling?
semanticdassllcatlonmergingevents?
eventrejedIonTokenizer?aphabetx?
nunorkc?
wtnle spac e?
punctuation...Figure 3.
TexUS provides complete end-to-end analysis capabilitiesThe analysis algorithms are robust because they don't depend on complete characterization of the text in order t oproduce parse trees .
When syntactic grammar rules apply, they are used in building the parse tree, but even whe nthe text is ill-formed or the syntax knowledge of the system is incomplete, the analyzer produces parse trees fromwhich useful information can be extracted .Semantic analysis extracts and standardizes information by traversing the parse tree produced by the grammar-basedanalyzer.
We have implemented semantic analysis capabilities to locate events, actors, objects, instruments, time ,and location within a text .
We are currently developing deep analysis capabilities that intelligently resolve discours ephenomena (e.g., whether two sentences describe the same or different events) .
The semantic analyzer employ s209domain-specific rules whenever possible, and uses more generic knowledge when necessary, in order to extractrelevant information .The semantic analyzer constructs an internal representation of the objects and relationships between them .
Thediscourse analyzer traverses the internal semantic representation to establish links between events, actors, objects,locations, dates, instruments, and other information extracted from text.
The internal representation then serves asinput to a task-specific conversion process that produces the desired output .
We are investigating interactive tools tospecify the output format.
Figure 3 depicts the analysis passes implemented in TexUS .Knowledge Acquisition CapabilityThe knowledge acquisition system provides a set of iinteractive graphic tools, including a hierarchy-base dknowledge editor, a grammar rule editor, a vocabulary addition tool, and a dictionary tool .
These tools allow a userto add lexical, syntactic, semantic, and domain knowledge to the system .
The user can also build hierarchies thatdrive the analysis functions described earlier .We have implemented automated knowledge acquisition capabilities that apply during analysis.
For example, theanalyzer applies patterns with one-word wildcards to categorize unknown words .
A pattern such as "det quan WILDnoun", when it matches a piece of text such as "the two rebel positions", leads the analyzer to hypothesize tha t"rebel" is an adjective or noun .
Other mechanisms use morphological evidence and multi-word wildcards t ocharacterize words and phrases .
Expanding the automated knowledge acquisition capability is part of our ongoin gresearch effort.Batch knowledge acquisition tools have also been implemented, for example, to incorporate personal an dgeographic names into the knowledge base .
We se investigating the use of on-line dictionaries to enlarge theknowledge base.
We are already em*'oying the Collin's English Dictionary (CED) provided by the ACL Dat aCollection Initiative for syntax class L .
.ormation, and are investigating the extraction of semantic information a swell .Knowledge BaseWe have implemented a domain-independent knowledge management framework that improves the Conceptua lGrammar framework of the predecessor VOX system .
The knowledge base represents a variety of linguistic andconceptual knowledge, as well as housing the analyzer data structures and internal meaning representation dat astructures .
Figure 4 exemplifies the knowledge representation for kidnapping concepts and their associated words .Figure 4.
Knowledge representation example -- kidnapping concepts and word s210The knowledge representation elements are concepts and grammar rules that are analogous to Lisp symbols an dlists .
Grammar rules represent any kind of sequential information ; we use them for syntax rules, idiomatic phrases ,attributes of concepts, patterns with wildcards, logical expressions, and so on .
Attributes specify relationshipsbetween concepts, such as the parent-child relationship in a hierarchy .The system's knowledge is stored in several forms .
The raw database consists of knowledge in a form d irectlyaccessed and updated by TexUS .
A second form of the knowledge consists of a set of files containing primitiveknowledge addition commands (e .g ., a command to add a node to a phrase).
Executing the commands in this fil esystem rebuilds the entire knowledge base from scratch .
A third form of the knowledge consists of a file system ofhigh level knowledge addition commands (e .g., a command to add a noun to the system) .
Each form of theknowledge provides a greater degree of independence from the system internals, and each is successively morehuman readable .
The multiple layers of knowledge storage also provide extra knowledge protection, in case on elayer is corrupted .CURRENT WORKHaving completed an end-to-end analysis framework, our main tasks at present are to improve each pass of th eanalyzer and smooth the interactions between the passes .
We are using the MUC development corpus to monito rour progress in fleshing out the analyzer and enhancing its performance.
By early 1993, we will have completed a"beta release" of TexUS.SYSTEM INFORMATIO NTexUS has 89,000 lines of code and runs on Sun SPARCstations in C and Sunview .
The system customized forMUC4 has about 1800 vocabulary words (not counting conjugations), with an additional 4,000 Hispanic names an dgeographic locations.
The analyzer uses about 260 rules and processes text at about 2 words per second .MUC4 DISCUSSIO NThat our current system is in transition is clearly evidenced by comparing the MUC3 and MUC4 scores.
In fact, therescored MUC3 results are better than those of the current system .We have also implemented extensive automated testing facilities to augment the MUC scoring apparatus .
We haveused the testing system in preparing for MUC4 and will make extensive use of it during the remainder of 1992 t oimprove performance on the MUC task.Processing of Message 0048 in TST2Relevancefilter: Keyword and key pattern search helps identify relevant portions of the text .Lexical: The lexical pass is primarily concerned with identifying locations and names, and implements n-grammethods to decide if unknown words are English or not .
To augment the system's vocabulary, the lexical pass madeextensive use of the Collin's English Dictionary (CED) .
The set list of locations is used by the lexical pass, as is aset of personal names extracted from the development corpus .
Spelling correction and morphological analysi salgorithms also apply to unknown words .For message 48, the lexical analyzer failed to find 'yet' in the CED, so n-gram analysis guessed that it is an Englishword.
The word 'there' was absent from our core vocabulary, indicating the incompleteness of our coverage.
Thecomplete list of unknown words found in the CED for message 48 follows :abroad, accused, appointed, approve, armored, christian, closely, confirmed, considered, cordoned ,credit, declared, democrat, drastic, elect, escaped, halt, including, intended, intersection, job, laws,legislative, linked, moments, napoleon, niece, noted, occasions, old, operation, possibility, prompt ,reaction, replace, represent, responsible, roof, ruled, same, sources, stopped, street, termed, there ,threatened, time, traveling, unscathed, warnedThe spelling corrector converted "asssembly" to "assembly" .
Finally, all the names in the message, such as"Roberto Garcia Alvarado", were correctly determined.211Before and after lexical analysis, bottom-up passes through the message text located several types of idioms .
Beforelexical analysis, the following were foundSpecific locations :Date phrases:Transition advs :Brackets:Literals:Verb idioms :Complex preps :"San Salvador""5 days ago""also ""Farabundo Marti National Liberation Front""took place", "carrying out""according to"After lexical analysis, the following were found :Locations :"downtown San Salvador "Noun list"government and military"Erroneous findings were made by the noun-listing rule, which was recently added to the system:"Roberto Garcia Alvarado and accused ""police and Garcia"Syntactic analysis : The syntactic segmentation algorithms have worked very well, considering the preliminarystate of our knowledge base and the large degree of syntactic ambiguity supplied by the CED.
For example, the firstsentence in message 48 was segmented to the following components:(np)salvadoran president(np)- elec t(np)alfredo cristian i(vp)condemned(np)the terrorist(np)killing(pp)of attorney genera l(np)roberto garcia alvarado and accuse d(np)the farabundo marti national liberation front (fmln )(pp)of the crime(?
)In general, the assignment of np, vp, and pp was correct, even in this sentence .
Lack of patterns such as<alphabetic> <hyphen> <alphabetic> led to the mishandling of "president-elect" .
"The terrorist killing" is difficul tto assign correctly in general, and TexUS did well to assign the noun sense of "killing" .
As described for the lexicalpass, "roberto garcia alvarado and accused" was misparsed because of a noun list pattern <noun> <and> <noun> tha twas overly unrestricted.Semantic analyis: The semantic structures produced for the first sentence in message 48 derive directly from thesyntactic segmentation shown above .
We have edited the internal semantic representation to be human-readable:event =condemnedactors = (1) Salvadoran president, (2) elect, (3) alfredo cristiani .actions = (1) killing, (2) crime .objects = (1) terrorist, (2) attorney general, (3) roberto garcia alvaradoand accused, (4) fmlnThe assignments are generally reasonable, except that merging of appositives and split noun phrases is not ye timplemented.
In the two weeks following the formal MUC4 test, we have improved the semantic analyzer to outpu tseparate event structures for nominal actions such as "the terrorist killing" and "the crime", so that adverbia linformation can be properly attached to these events .After fixing some of the segmentation bugs noted earlier, the semantic output is greatly improved :212event = condemnedactor = (1) salvadoran, (2) president-elect alfredo cristiani .object = the terroristevent-object = killingevent = killingobject = attorney generalevent = accusedobject = fmlnevent-object = crimeevent = crimeactor = fmlnDiscourse analysis: Discourse analysis links or separates semantic information based on syntactic, semantic, an ddiscourse knowledge .
In general, semantic information is separated or merged by comparing date/time, location,actors and objects .
Actors and objects are classified as proper nouns, pronouns, or abstract nouns (e .g., "the home")and are compared by successively relaxing constraints on agreement, as in the syntactic and semantic passes .
If theobject being compared is the name "Garcia", then the fi rst precedence for comparison will be other names such as"Roberto Garcia Alvarado" or "Garcia Alvarado" which contain the name "Garcia" .
If none are found, a propername is then matched with pronouns such as "he" or "him" .
If that also fails, then "Garcia" is matched with abstrac tnouns such as " the attorney general" .
Time, location, and other concepts are compared similarly .One construction not currently handled by the discourse analyzer is the phrase "Merino's home " .
The discourseanalyzer does not yet link possessive nouns with other nouns in the corpus, which would help classify "Merino'shome " as a GOVERNMENT OFFICE OR RESIDENCE instead of CIVILIAN RESIDENCE .For meaningful work on message 48, discourse analysis depended on modifications to the earlier passes .
Inaddition, we added a pragmatic rule that merged events based on location, allowing the attack on Merino's home tobe merged with the fact that children were in the home at the time (sentences 11-13 of message 48) .
In general, thediscourse process works well on MUC messages when the prior passes produce a correct internal semanti crepresentation .Template Output for Message 004 8SLOTOFFICIAL OUTPUTMODIFICATIONS0.
MESSAGE : I D1.MESSAGE : TM P2.
INC: DATE3.
INC: LOC4.
INC: TYPE5.
INC: STAGE6.
INC: INSTR ID7.
INC: INSTR TYPE8.
PERP: CATEGORY9.
PERP: INDIV ID10.PERP: ORG ID11.PERP : ORG CONF12.PHYS : ID13.PHYS : TYPE14.
PHYS : NU M15.
PHYS : FOREIGN16.
PHYS : EFFECT17.
PHYS : TOTAL18.
HUM: NAME19.
HUM: DESCRTST2-MUC4-004 8219 APR 89EL SALVADOR: SAN SALVADOR (CITY)ATTACKACCOMPLISHED"EXPLOSIVES "EXPLOSIVE : "EXPLOSIVES "TERRORIST ACT"GUERRILLAS ""MERINO ' S HOME"CIVILIAN RESIDENCE : "MERINO' S HOME "1 : "MERINO ' S HOME"14 APR 8 9BOMBING"CHILDREN:"VICE PRESIDENT'S CHILDREN ""15-YEAR-OLD NIECE "21320.
HUM : TYP E21.HUM : NUM22.
HUM: FOREIGN23.
HUM: EFFECT24.
HUM: TOTALCIVILIAN: "CHILDREN:CIVILIAN: "VICE PRESIDENTS CHILDREN"CIVILIAN: "15-YEAR-OLD NIECE"7: "CHILDREN:4: "VICE PRESIDENTS CHILDREN "1 : "15-YEAR-OLD NIECE "INJURY : "15-YEAR-OLD NIECE "CONCLUSIONTexUS, substantially expands the capabilities of the system fielded at MUC3 .
The MUC4 scores of TexUS do notyet reflect the system's potential, a situation which we will rectify by the end of 1992.
The 3.5 man-months ofcustomization for MUC4 did not improve the overall performance over last year, because more passes of th eanalyzer must be upgraded for each new capability introduced into the system .
Furthermore, of the total effort, atleast half was devoted to corpus study rather than augmenting the analyzer and knowledge base.Unlike MUC3, where our system had reached its full potential, TexUS is now a complete end-to-end frameworkwhich will serve to develop much stronger performance than we have shown at both MUC3 and MUC4.
We lookforward to exhibiting the system to good effect at the next MUC conference .REFERENCES[1] de Hilster, D .
and Meyers, A.
"McDonnell Douglas Electronic Systems Company : Description of the INLETSystem Used for MUC3" .
Proceedings of the Third Message Understanding Conference .
DARPA.
NOSC, SanDiego, California .
May 1991 .
[2] de Hilster, D. and Meyers, A.
"Heuristic Skimming of Voluminous Text" .
Natural Language Text Retrieva lWorkshop.
AAAI, Anaheim, California .
July 1991 .
[3] Meyers, A., Knowles, A. and Ruoff, K. "Lexical Acquisition Tools in VOX" .
Proceedings of the FirstInternational Language Acquisition Workshop.
IJCAI, Detroit, Michigan.
August 1989 .
[4] Meyers, A.
"VOX -- An Extensible Natural Language Processor" .
International Joint Conference on ArtificialIntelligence .
UCLA, California .
August 1985.214
