Summary of Workshop onLexicons for Text ExtractionJames PustejovskyComputer Science Department, Brandeis Universit yEmail : jamesp@cs .brandeis .eduThis workshop discussed the problems with lexicon development in the context of MUC-styl eapplication programs.
The topics ranged from general issues in lexicon portability (Cahill), to Japanes elexicons (Mauldin) and problems encountered with MRDs in sublanguage domains (Pustejovsky) .The POETIC Lexicon Lynne Cahill, of the University of Sussex, England, presented the design an dspecifications for the lexicon used in their Traffic Information Collator system, and what problem sthey encountered in porting it to the MUC task .
This is an information extraction system used bylocal police personnel for traffic reports .
The domain is characterized by a fairly tight and limite dvocabulary, as well as a telegraphic style of syntax .
Cahill discussed the relative ease with which th elexicon was adapted to new police force domains .The general issues raised in Cahill's presentation were the problem of going from a sublanguag elexicon to a broader lexicon, as required for the MUC-5 English Joint Venture domain .
The portin geffort took 12 person months in 6 months time .The MUC-5 lexicon design consists of a domain specific lexicon and a phrasal lexicon .
Thesewere used in conjunction with the Alvey Natural Language Toolkit for parse recovery.
Rich lexicalinformation was added only to words which were significant in the domain as triggers for the templatefills .
Furthermore, the recognition of company and personal names was accomplished by standar dpattern matching techniques .Cahill discussed the different nature of the lexical entries in the two domains .
Porting to MUC- 5required a new semantics and much more syntax.
The result was that the incomplete lexicon gave riseto undergeneration of appropriate template objects, while fragmentary parsing resulted in templat eovergeneration, because of the liberal acceptance of too many patterns .
There was, furthermore, nocontextual feedback into the parser, as well as no way of selecting the most likely analysis of a give npattern, if several fired .
Cahill pointed out that these problems were largely due to time constraint sin the development cycle, rather than the nature of the lexical design .Lexical Information in SHOGUN Michael Mauldin, of CMU, presented information about MAJESTY ,the Japanese lexicon in SHOGUN .
This lexicon contains over 17,000 entries, including open class words ,proper names, locations, and numeric entries .Mauldin's talk focussed on the parts of speech and Japanese segmentation using both the MAJESTYand JUMAN programs, and the use of the JUMAN to MAJESTY converter .
The size of the Japanese lexiconis: 13,892 completed word entries, 17,943 word senses .Mauldin then compared the JUMAN and MAJESTY parts of speech, and the segmentation agreemen tbetween MAJESTY and JUMAN using the converter .
He found that segmentation agreement betweenthe two was 83 .2%, while segmentation and POS agreement was 76 .9% .CMU has made this lexicon a shareable resource, and it is available by anonymous FTP from CM Uat the following location :Host : nl .cs .cmu .eduDir : /usr/mlm/2tp/tipster339The files available are :jlex .tar .Z(Japanese lexicon )jjv-seg .tar .Z(Segmented JV corpus (by MAJESTY) )jap-industry .rules (Rules for Japanese SIC codes )j2m.tar .Z(JUMAN -> MAJESTY converter )name-acq.tar .Z(Japanese Name Acquisition s/R)Limitations of MRDs and Sublanguage Lexicons In the last presentation, James Pustejovskyof Brandeis University discussed the inherent limitations of extracting information from machine -readable dictionaries, and made the observation that there is an inverse correlation between the utilit yof direct MRD-derived lexical items with the tightness of a sublanguage .From Pustejovsky 's experience in the NMSU/Brandeis Tipster effort, where domain lexicons wer esemi-automatically seeded from an MRD-derived core lexicon (LDOCE), problems arose with th eusefulness of some MRD data .
Because some sublanguage senses for key (trigger) lexical items are soremoved from dictionary senses, sense determination and acquisition must come from domain-specifi ccorpora .Pustejovsky presented the dimensions along with to analyze the usefulness of MRD fields :?
Categorization of the word for tagging ;?Subcategorization variants ; transitive or intransitive ;?
Semantic category of the word (sense identification), and semantic type of subcategorized ele-ments .The problems with direct MRD-lexicons for sublanguages can be summarized as follows :?
Category distribution specified in MRD may not reflect the actual use of the word in the corpu sor domain;?
Subcategorization variants are weak indicators of the actual syntactic variation in the corpus ;i .e .
forms that are not encoded in the MRD ;?
Meaning shifts occur in sublanguages that are not encoded in the MRD .Pustejovsky then turned to evaluation issues and how they relate to lexicon development .
If wewere to be interested in general word sense identification and predicate-argument structure in the text ,and not just differentiating trigger terms from free text, the style of lexicon development would be verydifferent .
Some sort of core lexicon would be very useful as a common resource from which to tune t ospecific domains and tasks, through statistical corpus techniques .
In fact, even the sublanguage use ofgeneral vocabulary items is predictable only from examination of the corpus .
Thus, corpus acquisitionand tuning becomes an integral part of any lexical system development .340
