CORPORA AND DATA PREPARATIO NLynn CarlsonBoyan OnyshkevychMary Ellen Okurow skiU.
S. Department of DefenseFt.
Meade, MD 2075 5email : (lmcarls, baonysh, meokuro)@afterlife .ncsc .mi lBACKGROUN DThe data selection and data preparation efforts which led to the TIPSTER and Fifth Message Understandin gConference (MUC-5) evaluation corpora involved substantial effort, time and resources .
The Government commit-ment to these selection and preparation efforts stems from four TIPSTER Program objectives : (1) to provide trainin gdata that would promote the development of information extraction technology, (2) to provide accurate test data t oevaluate and baseline system performance in an objective manner, (3) to provide a baseline for human performance t ounderstand and interpret machine performance, and (4) to support the larger Natural Language Processing commu-nity by making available a unique set of texts and templates in multiple domains and languages under ARPA support .This commitment was demonstrated through the managerial, technical, and administrative support to these effortsfrom various Government agencies, as well as through the contractual efforts with the Institute for Defense Analysesfor data preparation and New Mexico State University for software tool development .DOCUMENT CORPOR AFour language-domain pairs were used in the MUC-5 exercise, abbreviated as EJV, JJV, EME, JME to reflec tthe language (English or Japanese) and the domain (Joint Ventures or MicroElectronics) .
Each of the four language-domain pairs has an associated set of 1200 to 1600 documents (a corpus), divided into the development set and thetest sets.
During the course of the TIPSTER program, up to three test sets were prepared for each language-domai npair, in addition to approximately 1000 development set documents for each corpus .
These test sets, which were usedfor the TIPSTER 12-, 18-, and 24-month evaluations, ranged from 50 to 300 documents each .
For MUC-5, the firs ttest set was added to the development corpus, the second test set was used for the MUC-5 dry run, and the third tes tset was used for the MUC-5 evaluation.
Selected from the overall pool in a random manner, the test sets reflect a sim-ilar distribution of sources, relevancy, and other document attributes as the development sets .
There are a few excep-tions, e.g ., the first EJV test set does not contain documents from one of the sources added to the development an dsubsequent test sets.These corpora consist of documents from a variety of newswire or newspaper sources, selected by a combina-tion of automatic retrieval and manual filtering techniques .
For example, the EJV corpus was retrieved from three textdata sources (LEXUS/NEXUS, PROMT, and Wall Street Journal from ACL/DCI or TIPSTER Detection databaseCDROMs) by using traditional keyword-based document retrieval systems .
These keywords for EJV included suchstems as joint venture, joint, venture, tie-up, collaborate, cooperate .
Though the majority of the documents werepulled by the keyword method, additional candidates were retrieved by random browsing through the corpora sourcesand identifying documents which appeared to be relevant.
After a large pool of candidate documents was retrieved ,these documents were manually scanned and separated into two groups : relevant or irrelevant.
In order to testwhether the Information Extraction systems were able to discriminate between relevant and irrelevant documents, thefour corpora were then seeded with a certain number of irrelevant documents .
The percentage of irrelevant docu-ments functioning as "distractors" ranges from about 5% (for English Joint Ventures) to 30% (for Japanese Micro-electronics) .
By comparison, the corpora used for previous MUCs used up to 50% irrelevant documents, stressing thedocument detection aspect of the task more strenuously than in TIPSTER/MUC-5 .The 200+ different sources used to build the English-language corpora include the Wall Street Journal, JijiPress, New York Times, Financial Times, Kyodo News Service, and a variety of technical publications in fields such a scommunications, airline transportation, rubber & plastics, and food marketing.
The Japanese-language sources used1for the two Japanese corpora include Asahi, Nikkei, and Yomiuri .Each document in the four development corpora has an associated filled-in template (see appendices to "Tasks ,Domains and Languages" in this volume), representing the correct template or "answer key" that should be filled outfor that document.
The development corpora along with their associated templates were made available to the pro -gram participants during the course of the program .TEMPLATE CORPORAIn order to provide the system developers with training data to illustrate the task and benchmark their develop-ment, filled-out templates for the approximately 1000 documents of each training set were provided as "keys" .
Inaddition, templates were produced for the initial TIPSTER program test cycles (12 and 18 months) and for the fina ljoint MUC-5/TIPSTER (24 month) test.
Table 1 provides the number of templates in each development and test set .Table 1 : Template Count sDevelopment set 12-monthtest18-month tes t/MUC dry run24-month test/ MUCevaluationTOTALEJV 1000 100 200 282 1582JJV 997 50 100 150 1297EME 1000 0 100 300 140 0JME 850 0 50 100 1000TOTAL 3847 150 450 832 5279The templates were filled by experienced human analysts according to the same fill rules document (see below)and other supporting documentation that was provided to the system developers to define the exact syntax and seman-tics of the template fills .FILL RULESIn addition to the template definition itself, which only defines the syntax in a BNF-like notation (see "Templat eDesign for Information Extraction" in this volume), the analysts and participants in TIPSTER and MUC-5 were pro-vided with the fill rule documents .
At the highest level, the fill rules specify the reporting conditions for a givendomain .
These reporting conditions correspond to the general goals of the extraction task .
For example, the fill rulesdocument defines what information in a text constitutes evidence of a joint venture, and what minimal amount of sup -porting information is required in order to instantiate a template .
Of note is that the conditions enumerated in the fil lrules were determined from the document corpus and refined through the actual application of (earlier versions of)the fill rules to the corpus .
At a more specific level, the fill rules delineate the conditions for instantiating an object ,object by object, and for filling a slot, slot by slot .
At the object and slot levels, the rules specify (1) what kind of evi-dence in the text is required for instantiation or fills and what, if anything, can be inferred, (2) the formatting condi-tions for data representation, and (3) the semantics of the data elements .
Examples are often provided to highlight anyone of these aspects .The fill rules served as guidelines for two very different sets of users--the analysts and the system developers .Since the evolution of a fill rule document was driven to a large extent by its application to a text corpus, the analyst swere key contributors to the fill rules in that they applied the rules and in so doing identified discrepancies, omissions,and exceptions to the rules .
System developers, on the other hand, are mainly "consumers" of the rules, even thoug hthe TIPSTER participants did provide substantial input to the fill rules through questions and comments .
Althoug hreporting conditions as well as object and slot specifications need to be implemented in the extraction systems, th e2developers of those systems also relied on the text corpus itself and analyst-filled templates to direct development .In support of the fill rules document, other specialized documents were also provided, for example, expandin gon the definition of a joint venture, or on the semantics of representing time expressions .OTHER SUPPORTING MATERIALThe Government also supplied on-line supporting materials to the analysts and the TIPSTER/MUC-5 partici-pants .
In many cases, this material was accessed to regularize or normalize the template fills .
For example, th eEnglish language Gazetteer needed to be accessed in order to regularize geographic locational information .
Compiledfrom a variety of sources, this resource provides place names for more than 240,000 locations around the world ,along with type and containment information .
For example, Baltimore is identified as a CITY, located in the PROV-INCE (state) of Maryland, which is in the COUNTRY USA.
The entire gazetteer entry for a location is used as the nor-malized fill for locational information in the template .
Due to the small number of on-line geographic resource savailable for Japanese, a much more limited version of a Japanese gazetteer was manually produced by one of theJapanese analysts, with entries for all of the countries in the world, detailed listings for Japanese provinces, U .S .states, major cities for both countries, and other major cities worldwide that appeared in the JJV corpus .
The Japaneselanguage Gazetteer contains 1882 locations .In the Joint Venture domain, the reporting of the products or business of the joint venture included classifyin gthe product or service using the Standard Industrial Classification Manual compiled by the U .
S .
Office of Manage-ment and Budget.
This resource contains a hierarchical classification of all the industry or business types in the U .
S .
,for example, avocado farms, electric popcorn popper sales, management consulting .
The template-filling tas krequired that products or services be coded as a two-digit classification representing the second level in the hierarchy.Other supporting resources for fill regularization include lists of currency names and abbreviations (e .g ., theDutch guilder is abbreviated NLG), lists of corporate abbreviations (like Inc, GMBH, or Ltd .)
along with lists ofcountries where those abbreviations are typically used, and nationality adjectives (e .g ., Iraqi, Irish) .
An additional setof resources was provided to system developers to assist in the extraction task, for example, lists of people's firs tnames .
All of these resources have been made available to the research community through the Consortium for Lexi-cal Research at New Mexico State University.DATA PREPARATIONThe goal of data preparation was to have human analysts produce sets of development and test templates fo reach of the four corpora .
The development templates served as models for system developers in the TIPSTER an dMUC programs, and the test sets were used to measure system performance at six-month intervals (see above unde rTEMPLATE CORPORA) .
For each of the four domains, a group of experienced analysts was hired.
These analyst smet regularly over the course of 12 - 21 months (depending on the domain) to discuss domain and language-specifi cissues, iron out differences, and provide input to the fill rules, which evolved over time .
The human analysts used awindow-based tool for Sun Microsystems workstations, developed for the template-filling task by New Mexico Stat eUniversity's Computing Research Laboratory .
One additional sub-task undertaken as part of the data preparation wa sthe establishment of a performance baseline by measuring the performance of human analysts against each other an dagainst the final "correct" version of various templates (see Table 2 below; for more detail, see also "ComparingHuman and Machine Performance for Natural Language Information Extraction : Results for English Microelectron-ics from the MUC-5 Evaluation" in this volume) .Eleven of the nineteen analysts which comprised the four teams were hired by the Institute for Defense Analy-ses in Virginia (IDA) ; additional analysts from various Government facilities joined these teams .
The Governmenttechnical management team (including the authors) led the effort to specify the domain, the definition of the tem-plates, and the development of fill rules and other supporting materials, in addition to directing IDA, which wa sresponsible for tracking template production and delivering prepared materials to the contractor sites, among othe rtasks .3In order to ensure maximal consistency and correctness in the analyst-produced keys, a variety of template-fill-ing schemes were tried .
Essentially, the schemes used different degrees of redundancy in producing each filled tem-plate, then used different methods to compare those template versions and to produce one final "most correct"version.
Table 2 summarizes the different strategies that were tried .
Most templates were produced using AB+B orTable 2 : Template Coding SchemesScheme Name CODERS CHECKERS DESCRIPTIONA A - One analyst produces template in on epassA+A A A One analyst codes, then checks it in a sep-arate pass at a later timeA+B A B One analyst codes template, anothe rreviews itAB+B A and B B Two analysts independently produce cod-ings, then one of them reviews both an dproduces composite versio nAB+C A and B C Two analysts independently produce cod -ings, then a third analyst reviews thos etwo and produces composite version .ABCD +com-mitteeeach of A, B ,C, Dall together Each of four analysts produces codingindependently, then final version pro -duced by entire committe eABCD + E A, B, C, D + E E Each of four analysts produces codingindependently, then final version pro-duced by the fifth personAB+C; JME was entirely produced using A+A .
The analysts for the other three corpora rotated the A, B, C, and Dpositions among themselves .
Even though redundant coding and checking methods were utilized, the templates tha twere produced could not be considered perfect ; anomalies found by system developers were reviewed and change swere incorporated into the templates as appropriate .TEMPLATE-FILLING STRATEGIESThe methodology used by the human analysts in filling templates was studied during the course of the task ,partly to drive redesign of the tools and documentation to support the analysts' efforts .
Although available resource sdid not permit extensive cognitive study of the mechanisms used by analysts, we did make some general observation sabout the strategies used by analysts .A variety of approaches to template filling were used by the human analysts in filling out the templates .
Whatfollows is a characterization of the different strategies used by the five Japanese joint venture analysts (referred to a sAnalysts A, B, C, D and E) in analyzing the documents and filling out the corresponding templates .The basic process can be divided into two parts : the start-up procedure and the actual template filling process ,using the on-line tool .
The start-up procedure includes both reading the text, and marking and annotating the hardcopy.
The template-filling process addresses the order in which the analysts actually filled out the objects and slotsthat represented the various pieces of information to be extracted from the text .For the start-up procedure, three distinct approaches were identified .
Scheme 1, used by two analysts, is charac -4terized by minimal marking of the hard-copy text before starting to code the template using the on-line tool .
AnalystB would read the article twice through, then underline and label just the tie ups and entities before going to the tool .Analyst D would read and simultaneously underline entities and place check marks by other pertinent data ; then h ewould begin coding.In Scheme 2, also used by two analysts, a more detailed annotation of the hard-copy text was made .
Analyst Ewould read through the hard-copy text and simultaneously underline and number entities, circle and number tie ups ,and make other annotated comments, such as "El alias," "E2 official" (for alias or official associated with a particula rentity).
Moreover, this analyst would draw links between related pieces of information in the text, and would outlin ein the margins more complex objects, such as ACTIVITY, OWNERSHIP, and REVENUE.
After this process was com -plete, the coding would begin .
Analyst C's approach was similarly detailed, the only difference being that she wouldlabel all pertinent information using color-coded highlighters, e .g., green for ENTITYs, yellow for product/servic estrings, blue for FACILITY and TIME objects .The third scheme, used by Analyst A, involved a mixture of initial marking, skimming, initial coding, annotat-ing in detail, and then final coding.
This analyst would read the beginning of the article, marking potential entitiesuntil a "tie-up verb" was found .
Now certain that the article had a valid tie up, she would proceed to skim the remain -der of the text, underlining or circling additional pertinent information .
At this point, she would use the tool to codethe initial portion of the template, i .e ., the TIE-UPs, ENTITYS, and ENTITY-RELATIONSHIPS .
After this ke ystructure was in place, she would read through the remainder of the text, annotating in detail all potential product/ser-vice strings, and information about FACILITYs, REVENUE, OWNERSHIP, etc .
Finally, the remainder of the templatewas coded using the tool .Moving on to the template-filling process, a variety of breadth vs .
depth-first strategies were used by the ana-lysts .
Four of the analysts would completely fill in all information about the first tie up before coding any additiona ltie ups .
Analysts A, B, and E would fill in the TEMPLATE, TIE-UP, ENTITY, and ENTITY-RELATIONSHI Pobjects first.
Then TIME, REVENUE, OWNERSHIP, PERSON and FACILITY objects were instantiated in no partic -ular order.
The ACTIVITY and INDUSTRY objects were filled in concurrently, usually last .
This procedure was thenrepeated for additional tie ups .
Analyst D followed a complete depth-first strategy for coding each tie up, filling i neach slot in turn, so that if a slot pointed to another object, that object would then be filled in completely before pro-ceeding to the next slot in the top level object .
A breadth-first strategy for coding was used by Analyst C, who woul dfill in all tie-up objects and their respective entities first, and then code the remaining information for each tie up .These varying strategies for annotating texts and coding templates did not seem to have a significant effect onthe quality of the templates produced, and seemed to be a matter of personal preference .
However, they give insigh tinto the different ways in which humans approach a particular analytic task, and suggest that on-line analytic tool sneed to be sufficiently flexible to accommodate the styles of different human users.5
