Report from the Text Analysis Techniques Topic SessionRobert E. StumbergerLanguage Systems, Inc .Internet: res?1si .comINTRODUCTIONPresentations in the Text Analysis Techniques session covered areas related to :?
disambiguation of temporal expressions (Lois Childs, GE/Martin Marietta) ,?
trainable correction of Japanese word segmentation (Sean Boisen, BBN) ,?
principle-based parsing (Robert Belvin, Language Systems Inc .)
,?
and disambiguating with semantic tags (Jim Cowie, NMSU).DISAMBIGUATING TEMPORAL EXPRESSION SLois Childs discussed GE's efforts to extract temporal expressions from text through the identification ofrelevant patterns .
The Shogun system used 37 patterns in English, and 7 for Japanese .
Patterns wer econtext dependent, and referenced a dateline in order to handle relative time .
The patterns were able toperform temporal calculations, and the system computed a temporal structure from reference points on th edateline.
The system was able to handle temporal references which were spread throughout a message .
Thisapproach allowed the Shogun system to have a good coverage of time fills ; extensions to this approach wil lprovide improved handling of ambiguous dates .AUTOMATICALLY TRAINABLE ERROR CORRECTION O FJAPANESE SEGMENTATION AND PART-OF-SPEECH ANAL-YSISSean Boisen presented BBN 's work on a learning algorithm which was used to improve the performanc eof the Juman Japanese word-segmentation system provided by Kyoto University .
BBN used AMED (Au-tomatic Morphological Error Detection) as a segment correction model between Juman and BBN's POS Ttagger .
Using hand-produced segmentation and tagging for training purposes, the system was able to ac -quire transformations from tags, and learn rules for segment correction, in order to reclassify words, pu twords together, and take words apart .
The system produced a chart of possible corrections .
The supervisedtraining used Treebank software .
The AMED/POST combination was able to improve segmentation andtagging performance with little data ; this approach will be extended to parsing in the future .341SOME ASPECTS OF PRINCIPLE-BASED PARSING IN THEMUC-5 TAS KRobert Belvin described the use of principle-based parsing in LSI's parser, in particular the use of principle sof grammatical theory and parsing principles (based on empirical knowledge of language) .
LSI 's parserincorporates a number of features of the Government-Binding theory of syntax, including projection andthematic principles, in an essentially head-driven parser which employs bottom-up and expectation-base dcharacteristics .
The parser is designed to be language independent, to produce syntactic structures whic hfacilitate semantic processing, and to be robust enough to produce partial parses which are usable in late rsemantic processing .
Robert discussed the handling of empty categories, with respect to passive constructionsand embedded infinitivals.
Robert concluded with a discussion of the insertion of special structures as a mean sof providing a "quick fix " for constructions which are not completely handled by the principles which havebeen implemented .DEALING WITH AMBIGUITYJim Cowie discussed experiences with NMSU's reference resolution module in their Diderot system .
Thesystem attempted to disambiguate text into a list of sense tokens .
Disambiguation was performed in parsingand semantic tagging stages .
Tagging was done using word-lists with semantic and type tags .
Parsing use dtags in conjunction with co-specification patterns .
Jim discussed various problems which occurred, includin ga lack of sense-tokens for Japanese, multiple-tagging problems, the need for a lexical database featurin gcompound terms, the need for domain-specific markers, the need for combinatorial rules, and the need fo rnegative blocking information .
Future experiments will focus on the use of machine learning techniques fo racquiring semantic tagging information and deriving semantic patterns .342
