Oki Electric Industry :Description of the Oki System as Used for MUC-7J.
Fukumoto, F. Masui, M. Shimohata, M. SasakiKansai Lab., R&D groupOki Electric Industry Co., Ltd.Crystal Tower 1-2-27 Shiromi, Chuo-ku, Osaka 540-6025 JAPANffukumoto,masui,simohata,sasakig@kansai.oki.co.jpINTRODUCTIONThis paper describes the Oki Information Extraction system as used for MUC-7 evaluation [1][2].The tasks we have conducted are Named Entity, Co-reference, Template Element and TemplateRelation.
Each module is implemented using MT system modules and pattern recognition modules.Our purposes to participate MUC-7 evaluation are to evaluate how MT system modules are eectivefor other application such as IE system and to develop our information extraction technology basedon pattern recognition.Oki's MT system, PENSEE [3][4], is a commercial system and is one of major MT systems inJapan.
Translation mechanism of PENSEE system basically applies transfer method.
There areEnglish-to-Japanese (EJ) and Japanese-to-English (JE) systems and both are based on the samesoftware systems, that is, both MT systems are using the same Grammar Description Language(GDL), and GDL rule translator and interpreter (GDL system).
Oki has already spent more thanten years for development and improvement of the MT system.The Oki IE system used for MUC-7 is composed of a surface pattern recognition module anda structural pattern recognition module.
The surface pattern recognition module traces a text atsurface linguistic level and detects NE elements and co-referred elements without any languageanalysis system such as lexical analysis and syntax analysis.
The structural pattern recognitionmodule traces parse trees of a text, which is generated by parser of MT system.
Syntactic andsemantic information embedded in the parse tree are used to detect NE elements, co-referredelements and so on.
The structural pattern recognition rules are described in GDL and are executedon the GDL system which is based on pattern matching mechanism of tree data.
Detected elementsof tree data are marked and are extracted after execution of rules.BACKGROUNDOki has submitted two systems: the English system for MUC-7 (NE, CO, TE and TR) and theJapanese system for MET-2 (NE).
This is our rst participation in MUC and MET evaluation.In order to develop the systems in a short period, we utilized parsing module of the MT system1for a sentence analyzer.
The English system is developed using the English sentence analyzerof the PENSEE-EJ and the Japanese system is developed using the Japanese sentence analyzerof PENSEE-JE.
We also utilized the GDL system for description of extraction rules (only fordescription of structural patterns).
The GDL system has powerful rule debugging environment,which is very helpful to develop an extraction system in a short period.OKI MT SYSTEM : PENSEEIn the MT system, PENSEE, translation rules are executed on the GDL system.
A GDL ruleconsists of pattern matching part and action part.
Pattern matching part describes conditions tospecify a part of tree data and action part states changes of the specied tree structure and/ormodication of node information of the tree.
Sample transformation of tree data is shown inFigure 1.Top*1*1adj               noun(article = det.
)Topart adj noun *2noun(NP) *2Figure 1: Transformation of tree data in the GDL systemPattern matching species a sequence of article (art), adjective (adj) and noun and both sidesof the sequence are arbitrary number of nodes (\*1" and \*2").
After transformation, node infor-mation of article is embedded into the noun node, and the noun and adjective nodes are movedunder the noun phrase node (NP).
In our current implementation, a lower node modied its uppernode.OVERVIEW OF THE OKI IE SYSTEMOki's IE system consists of surface pattern recognition modules, structural pattern recognitionmodules, ltering programs to convert internal expression of parser to surface expression, and2SGML tag processing modules.
Architecture of the system is shown in Figure 2.SGML Tag ProcessorsSurface PatternRecognition Modules(NE, CO and TE)Morphological andSyntax Analyzer+Structural PatternRecognition ModulesCo-referenceAnalysis ModuleTemplate ElementAnalysis ModuleTemplate RelationAnalysis ModuleNE ResultsNE FilterCO ResultsCO FilterTE ResultsTE FilterTR ResultsTR FilterInput TextFigure 2: Architecture of the Oki MUC systemThe system rstly recognizes surface level patterns in a text and adds SGML tags for each task.In this analysis, NE elements, CO elements and sub-category of NE elements for the TE task areextracted.
In the SGML tag processing module, these tags and original SGML tags are embeddedin their adjacent words for morphological and syntax analysis.
Each sentence of the tag-processedtext is parsed in the morphological and syntax analyzer which is originally used in the MT system.Structural pattern analysis rules for the NE task are implemented in the syntax analysis rules.
Therecognized patterns are expressed in node attributes in a parse tree.
In order to obtain NE results,information of node attributes is extracted and embedded in a text as SGML tags by the NE lter.For the CO task, all parse trees of sentences are converted into one tree structure each childnode of which is a parse tree of a sentence.
In recognition of the CO task, anaphoric elements areextracted and their antecedents are detected by traversing the tree structure.
Information of COelements is extracted from the tree structure and embedded in the original text as SGML tags bythe CO lter.
CO-reference numbers are also set by the CO lter.
For the TE and TR tasks, atext tree structure is used for identifying TE and TR elements.
The TE and TR lters generateTE and TR information in BNF format from the tree structure of a text.The NE systemThe NE system consists of a surface pattern recognition module, a structural pattern recognitionmodule and some ltering programs for tag-processing for parsing and post-processing.3Surface Pattern RecognitionSurface pattern recognition is processed in the following sub-processes. Recognition of capitalized areaSequential capitalized words are recognized as NE candidates. Head word processingA head word of a sentence is removed from NE candidates when it is registered in Non-elementword list. Merging capitalized areaSome functional words and prepositions, \for" and \of", are utilized for recognition of NEcandidates.
For example, the functional word \Bank" and the preposition \of" are used forrecognition of the NE element, \Bank of Tokyo".
The functional word \University" and thepreposition \of" are used for recognition of the NE element, \University of Tokyo". Type recognition of NE elementsType information of NE candidates is recognized by functional words such as \Mr."
of aperson name, \Bank" of a organization name, \City" of a location name and so on. Dictionary look upThe rests of NE candidates are checked with word list of each NE type.
The lists are manuallyextracted from newspaper articles, index information of a world map and company namesfrom stock market news, etc.In the recognition of NE elements, identied elements are utilized for recognition of their abbre-viation which is repeated in a text.
For example, when \Mr.
John Doe" in a text is recognized as aperson name, the words \John" and \Doe" in the same text are also recognized as a person name.Moreover, the abbreviation \FAA" in a text is used for checking NE candidates after recognitionof \Federal Aviation Administration" in the same text.Tag-processing for ParsingAn original text is SGML-tagged one and NE elements in the text are also SGML-tagged afterthe surface pattern recognition.
In order to parse such a SGML-tagged text, these tags have to beconcealed.
In a parse tree, tag information is expressed in node attributes of a parse tree, therefore,the system can handles information obtained at a surface level pattern recognition during parsing.Structural Pattern RecognitionAfter parsing, several structural pattern rules are applied to a parse tree in order to recognize NEelements.
Some of them are as follows:4 The subject element of some types of verb such as \say", \die", \play" and so on is recognizedas a person name. The noun phrase in front of relative pronoun \who" is recognized as a person name. The noun phrase, whose appositive phrase is a person name, is recognized as a person name,vice versa. The noun phrase followed by \employee", \spokesman" and so on is recognized as an organi-zation name. The noun phrase with preposition \in", \at", \near" or \over", whose appositive phrase isan organization name, is recognized as an organization name.Post-processingAfter the structural pattern recognition, NE tag information is extracted from a parse tree andadded to the pattern tagged text.
All the NE tag information is utilized for tagging to non-bodypart of the text.The CO SystemThe CO system also consists of a surface pattern recognition module, a structural pattern recogni-tion module and some ltering programs for tag-processing for parsing and post-processing.Surface Level RecognitionIn the surface pattern recognition of the NE system, abbreviation and repeated one are utilizedfor recognition of NE elements.
This mechanism is also used for surface level recognition of COelements.
For example, when the person name \Mr.
John Doe" appears in a text, the words \John"and \Doe" are utilized as abbreviation of the person name.Tag-processing for ParsingSGML-tags and CO tags obtained from the surface pattern analysis are concealed for parsing aswell as the NE system.Structural Level RecognitionThis is the main module of CO-reference analysis.
Firstly, the CO system recognizes co-referenceexpression of appositions and the expression of \A is B".
Then, the CO system extracts anaphoricexpressions of pronouns and noun phrases with denite articles, and traverses the tree structurefrom bottom to top and left to right way to detect its antecedent.5Post-processingInformation of CO tags is extracted from the tree structure of a text and is added to the patterntagged text.
All the CO tag information is utilized for tagging to non-body part of a text in thesame way of the NE system.
Moreover, all the co-referred elements have the same co-referencenumber, therefore, renumbering according to the CO task denition is also done in this module.The TE SystemThe TE system consists of the following sub-processes.1.
Recognition of EntitiesEntities which are recognized in the NE system are selected.
Capitalized elements whichare not identied in the NE system will be handled as candidates for TE elements.
Theseelements will be identied as TE elements, if they are related to some descriptor.2.
Recognition of DescriptorsNoun phrases and prepositional phrases which have functional words of descriptors such as\Comdr.
", \President", \agency" and so on are extracted.
Semantic information of Descrip-tors which is used in parsing will be utilized for recognition of type information of TE entitiesin the next process.3.
Recognition Relation between Entities and DescriptorRelation between entities and descriptors is recognized by structural pattern rules for theTE task.
For example, an entity and a descriptor are related on some verb such as \called",\named" and \be", they are recognized as a TE pattern.4.
Merging TE PatternsSome TE patterns are merged using Co-reference information, that is, the same entities (co-referred elements) are recognized as one entity.The TR SystemThe TR system identies relation between TE elements.
In our current simple implementation, if aperson and an organization are related on some predicate, they are recognized as having \employee-of" relation.
Moreover, if an organization and a location are related on some predicate, they arerecognized as having \locate-of" relation.
In case of an artifact and an organization, they will have\product-of" relation.WORKTHROUGH ARTICLETable shows results of the workthrough article.
As for the TE task, we mainly implemented rulesfor entity, therefore, the TE score for entity is at an average level according to the results of6MUC-6.
However, the score for location is very low.
It is because the TE system has a fewlocation rules and has no dictionaries to identify the detailed information of a location.Task Recall Precision F-measureNE (nyt9602140704) 94/132 71.1 94/114 82.5 76.4TE (nyt9602140509) 52/186 30.0 52/62 83.9 41.9TR (nyt9602140509) 45/168 26.8 45/62 72.6 39.1CO (nyt9609100378) 26/79 32.9 26/47 55.3 41.3Table 1: Results of Workthrough ArticleCONCLUSION AND FUTURE DIRECTIONThis participation to the MUC-7 and MET-2 tasks was our rst trial and we had to develop our IEsystems for the tasks in a short period.
Our purpose to participate MUC-7 tasks is to evaluate howMT parsing modules are eective for development of an IE system in a short period and how theywork.
We found that it is useful to utilize the MT system modules for the other application suchas IE system because our MT system has practically achieved robustness and the rule descriptionsystem called the GDL system is also very helpful due to its pattern matching mechanism.
However,parsing modules of the MT system has been originally developed for language transformation ina transfer method, therefore, tree structure of an original language is sometimes converted to thestructure of a target language.
These kinds of rules caused some diculty of pattern matching inthe IE tasks.We have participated the MET-2 task in Japanese which has only the NE task.
We are plan-ning to apply our IE technology developed for MUC-7 tasks to a practical Japanese informationextraction system.
Moreover, it will be useful to participate Japanese CO, TE, TR and ST tasksif they will be dened in the next conference.References[1] TIPSTER TEXT PROGRAM Phrase II, DARPA, (1996).
[2] Proceedings of 6th Message Understanding Conference (MUC-6), DARPA, (1995).
[3] Masui, F., Tsunashima, T., Sugio, T., Tazoe, T. and Shiino, T.: \Analysis of Lengthy Sen-tences Using an English Comparative Structure Model", System and Computers in Japan,pp.40{48, SCRIPTA TECHNICA Inc., (1996).
[4] PENSEE, http://www.oki.co.jp/OKI/RDG/English/kikaku/vol.1/sugio/main.htmlhttp://www.oki.co.jp/OKI/Home/English/Topic/PENSEE/7
