TIPS: A Translingual Information Processing SystemY.
Al-Onaizan, R. Florian, M. Franz, H. Hassan, Y. S. Lee, S. McCarley, K.Papineni, S. Roukos, J. Sorensen, C. Tillmann, T. Ward, F. XiaIBM T. J. Watson Research CenterYorktown HeightsAbstractSearching online information isincreasingly a daily activity for manypeople.
The multilinguality of onlinecontent is also increasing (e.g.
theproportion of English web users, whichhas been decreasing as a fraction theincreasing population of web users, dippedbelow 50% in the summer of 2001).
Toimprove the ability of an English speakerto search mutlilingual content, we built asystem that supports cross-lingual searchof an Arabic newswire collection andprovides on demand translation of Arabicweb pages into English.
The cross-lingualsearch engine supports a fast searchcapability (sub-second response for typicalqueries) and achieves state-of-the-artperformance in the high precision regionof the result list.
The on demand statisticalmachine translation uses the DirectTranslation model along with a novelstatistical Arabic Morphological Analyzerto yield state-of-the-art translation quality.The on demand SMT uses an efficientdynamic programming decoder thatachieves reasonable speed for translatingweb documents.OverviewMorphologically rich languages like Arabic(Beesley, K. 1996) present significant challengesto many natural language processing applicationsas the one described above because a word oftenconveys complex meanings decomposable intoseveral morphemes (i.e.
prefix, stem, suffix).
Bysegmenting words into morphemes, we canimprove the performance of natural languagesystems including machine translation (Brown etal.
1993) and information retrieval (Franz, M.and McCarley, S. 2002).
In this paper, wepresent a cross-lingual English-Arabic searchengine combined with an on demand Arabic-English statistical machine translation systemthat relies on source language analysis for bothimproved search and translation.
We developednovel statistical learning algorithms forperforming Arabic word segmentation (Lee, Y.et al2003) into morphemes and morphologicalsource language (Arabic) analysis (Lee, Y. et al2003b).
These components improve both mono-lingual (Arabic) search and cross-lingual(English-Arabic) search and machinetranslation.
In addition, the system supportseither document translation or convolutionalmodels for cross-lingual search (Franz, M. andMcCarley, S. 2002).The overall demonstration has the followingmajor components:1.
Mono-lingual search: uses Arabic wordsegmentation and an okapi-like searchengine for document ranking.2.
Cross-lingual search: uses Arabic wordsegmentation and morphologicalanalysis along with a statisticalmorpheme translation matrix in aconvolutional model for documentranking.
The search can also usedocument translation into English torank the Arabic documents.
Bothapproaches achieve similar precision inthe high precision region of retrieval.The English query is alsomorphologically analyzed to improveperformance.3.
OnDemand statistical machinetranslation: this component uses bothanalysis components along with a directchannel translation model with a fastdynamic programming decoder(Tillmann, C. 2003).
This systemEdmonton, May-June 2003Demonstrations , pp.
1-2Proceedings of HLT-NAACL 2003achieves state-of-the-art Arabic-Englishtranslation quality.4.
Arabic named entity detection andtranslation: we have 31 categories ofNamed Entities (Person, Organization,etc.)
that we detect and highlight inArabic text and provide the translationof these entities into English.
Thehighlighted named entities help the userto quickly assess the relevance of adocument.All of the above functionality is availablethrough a web browser.
We indexed the ArabicAFP corpus about 330k documents for thedemonstration.
The resulting search enginesupports sub-second query response.
We alsoprovide an html detagging capability that allowsthe translation of Arabic web pages while tryingto preserve the original layout as much aspossible in the on demand SMT component.
TheArabic Name Entity Tagger is currently run as anoffline process but we expect to have it online bythe demonstration time.
We aslo include twoscreen shots of the demonstration system.AcknowledgmentsThis work was partially supported by theDefense Advanced Research Projects Agencyand monitored by SPAWAR under contract No.N66001-99-2-8916.
The views and findingscontained in this material are those of the authorsand do not necessarily reflect the position ofpolicy of the Government and no officialendorsement should be inferred.ReferencesBeesley, K. 1996.
Arabic Finite-StateMorphological Analysis and Generation.Proceedings of COLING-96, pages 89?
94.Brown, P., Della Pietra, S., Della Pietra, V., andMercer, R. 1993.
The mathematics of statisticalmachine translation: Parameter Estimation.Computational Linguistics, 19(2): 263?311.Franz, M. and McCarley, S. 2002.
ArabicInformation Retrieval at IBM.
Proceedingsof TREC 2002, pages 402?405.Lee, Y., Papineni, K., Roukos, S.,Emam, O., and Hassan, H. 2003.
LanguageModel Based Arabic Word Segmentation.Submitted for publication.Lee, Y., Papineni, K., Roukos, S., Emam,O., and Hassan, H. 2003b.
AutomaticInduction of Morphological Analysis forStatistical Machine Translation.
Manuscript inpreparation.Tillmann, C., 2003.
Word Reordering and aDP Beam Search Algorithm for StatisticalMachine Translation.
ComputationalLinguistics, 29(1): 97-133.
