Dynamic Integration of Distributed Semantic Services:Infrastructure for Process Queries and Question AnsweringPaul Thompson45 Lyme Road, Suite 200Dartmouth CollegeHanover, New Hampshire 03755Paul.Thompson@dartmouth.edu1  The IR2P PrototypeThe DARPA IXO mission is to develop ?systemsfor real-time sensing, exploitation, and decision makingin a rich tactical environment?.
The mission includesthe development of individual technologies for sensors,sensor exploitation and command/control as well as thetechnology of information integration.
Our researchfocuses on how to integrate distributed services in adynamic networked environment to support IXOapplications.
This dynamic networked environmentshould include the following capabilities (DARPA,2002):?
Information users should have scalable dynamicallychanging subscription services to heterogeneousinformation services;?
Information providers should have scalablepublishing services for their dynamically changinginformation products;?
Scalable intelligent middleware to dynamicallybroker, compose, and manage the intermediateservices necessary to connect information users tothe right information products at the right time.While some of these capabilities can be realizedwith existing technologies, several challengingproblems, particularly in the areas of scalability,semantic interoperability and dynamic extensibility,may need 5 or 10 years basic research efforts toadequately address.
The Information IntegrationResearch Prototype (I2RP) we describe is a vehicle forexploring which new paradigms and frameworks aremost promising for future investment while calibratingwhat existing technologies can do today (Jiang et al,2002).
This demonstration illustrates the I2RParchitecture and the underlying technology approaches.In six months, we implemented an extensible prototypesystem with basic capability as a proof-of-concept toshow some fundamental new ideas for implementingnext generation dynamic information integrationsystems.2  Current StatusIR2P is an information integration researchprototype built with commercial-off-shelf technologies.With the prototype system, the declaration-composition-production process of semantic integration has beeninvestigated, with specific emphasis on semanticinteroperability issues (Sirin et al, 2002).
A target-tracking scenario was developed to test the system andall components in the I2RP were successfully integrated?on the fly?
to support this mission.
Meanwhile weproposed and analyzed some metrics to quantify thesemantic integration process such as semantic depth,markup complexity and information fluidity.
Fromdifferent aspects, we built some models to analyze therelationship between semantic depth and markupcomplexity, and between semantic interoperability andinformation fluidity.3  Process Queries and Natural LanguageQueriesThe work on IR2P has evolved into a more generalengine for tracking, fusing, and querying processes.
Weare presently developing a generic process queryingcapability that can be used to retrieve information aboutobjects as diverse as physical objects on a battlefield orworms propagating through the Internet.
Later we planto build a natural language querying capability asproposed by Lulich and Thompson (2002).ReferencesDARPA.
2002.  http://dtsn.darpa.mil/ixo/Guofei Jiang, George Cybenko, Wayne Chung, PaulThompson, Glenn Nofsinger Annarita Giani, YongSheng, Diego Hernando and Han Li, Jim Hendler,Evren Sirin, Bijan Parsia , Jennifer Golbeck, KennethWhitebread and Martin Hoffman.
2002.
IXOEdmonton, May-June 2003Demonstrations , pp.
27-28Proceedings of HLT-NAACL 2003Seedling Project Technical Report DynamicIntegration of Distributed Semantic Services ThayerSchool of Engineering, Dartmouth College.Steven Lulich and Paul Thompson.
2002.
QuestionAnswering in the Infosphere:  SemanticInteroperability and Lexicon Development  LanguageEvaluation Resources Conference Workshop onQuestion Answering Strategies, Las Palmas de GranCanaria, Spain.Evren Sirin, James Hendler, and Bijan Parsia, 2002.Semi-automatic Composition of Web Services usingSemantic Descriptions.
Accepted to Web Services:Modeling, Architecture and Infrastructure workshopin conjunction with ICEIS2003.
