Desparately Seeking CebuanoDouglas W. Oard, David Doermann, Bonnie Dorr, Daqing He, Philip Resnik, and Amy WeinbergUMIACS, University of Maryland, College Park, MD, 20742(oard,doermann,bonnie,resnik,weinberg)@umiacs.umd.eduWilliam Byrne, Sanjeev Khudanpur and David YarowskyCLSP, Johns Hopkins University, 3400 North Charles Street, Barton Hall, Baltimore, MD 21218(byrne,khudanpur,yarowsky)@jhu.eduAnton Leuski, Philipp Koehn and Kevin KnightUSC Information Sciences Institute, 4676 Admiralty Way, Marina Del Rey, CA 90292(leuski,koehn,knight)@isi.eduAbstractThis paper describes an effort to rapidly de-velop language resources and component tech-nology to support searching Cebuano news sto-ries using English queries.
Results from thefirst 60 hours of the exercise are presented.1 IntroductionThe Los Angeles Times reported that at about 5:20 P.M.on Tuesday March 4, 2003, a bomb concealed in a back-pack exploded at the airport in Davao City, the secondlargest city in the Philippines.
At least 23 people werereported dead, with more than 140 injured, and Pres-ident Arroyo of the Philippines characterized the blastas a terrorist act.
With the 13 hour time difference, itwas then 4:20 A.M on the same date in Washington, DC.Twenty-four hours later, at 4:13 A.M. on March 5, partic-ipants in the Translingual Information Detection, Extrac-tion and Summarization (TIDES) program were notifiedthat Cebuano had been chosen as the language of interestfor a ?surprise language?
practice exercise that had beenplanned quite independently to begin on that date.
Thenotification observed that Cebuano is spoken by 24% ofthe population of the Philippines, and that it is the linguafranca in the south Philippines, where the event occurred.One goal of the TIDES program is to develop the abil-ity to rapidly deploy a broad array of language technolo-gies for previously unforeseen languages in response tounexpected events.
That capability will be formally ex-ercised for the first time during June 2003, in a month-long ?Surprise Language Experiment.?
To prepare forthat event, the Linguistic Data Consortium (LDC) orga-nized a ?dry run?
for March 5-14 in order to refine pro-cedures for rapidly developing language resources of thetype that the TIDES community will need during the Julyevaluation.Development of interactive Cross-Language Informa-tion Retrieval (CLIR) systems that can be rapidly adaptedto accommodate new languages has been the focus ofextensive collaboration between the University of Mary-land and The Johns Hopkins University, and more re-cently with the University of Southern California.
Thecapability for rapid development of necessary languageresources is an essential part of that process, so we hadbeen planning to participate in the surprise language dryrun to refine our procedures for sharing those resourceswith other members of the TIDES community.
Naturally,we chose CLIR as a driving application to focus our ef-fort.
Our goal, therefore, was to build an interactive sys-tem that would allow a searcher posing English queriesto find relevant Cebuano news articles from the periodimmediately following the bombing.2 Obtaining Language ResourcesOur basic approach to development of an agile system forinteractive CLIR relies on three strategies: (1) create aninfrastructure in advance for English as a query languagethat makes only minimal assumptions about the docu-ment language; (2) leverage the asymmetry inherent inthe problem by assembling strong resources for Englishin advance; and (3) develop a robust suite of capabilitiesto exploit any language resources that can be found forthe ?surprise language.?
We defer the first two topics tothe next section, and focus here on the third.
We know offive possible sources of translation expertise:People.
People who know the language are an excellentsource of insight, and universities are an excellentplace to find such people.
We were able to locatea speaker of Cebuano within 50 feet of one of ouroffices, and to schedule an interview with a secondCebuano speaker within 36 hours of the announce-ment of the language.Scholarly literature.
Major research universities arealso an excellent place to find written materials de-scribing a broad array of languages.
Within 12 hoursof the announcement, reference librarians at the Uni-versity of Maryland had identified a textbook on?Beginning Cebuano,?
and we had located a copyat the University of Southern California.
Togetherwith the excellent electronic resources located by theLDC, this allowed us to develop a rudimentary stem-mer within 36 hours.Translation lexicons.
Simple bilingual term lists areavailable for many language pairs.
Using links pro-vided by the LDC and our own Web searches, wewere able to construct an English-Cebuano term listwith over 14,000 translation pairs within 12 hours ofthe announcement.
This largely duplicated a simul-taneous effort at the LDC, and we later merged ourterm list with theirs.Parallel text.
Translation-equivalent documents, whenaligned at the word level, provide an excellentsource of information about not just possible trans-lations, but their relative predominance.
Within 24hours of the announcement, we had aligned Ce-buano and English versions of the Holy Bible atthe word level using Giza++.
An evaluation by anative Cebuano speaker of a stratified random sam-ple of 88 translation pairs showed remarkably highprecision.
On a 4-point scale with 1=correct and4=incorrect the most frequent 100 words averaged1.3, the next 400 most frequent terms averaged 1.6,and the 500 next most frequent terms after that aver-aged 1.7.
The Bible?s vocabulary covers only abouthalf of the words found in typical English news text(counted by-token), so it is useful to have additionalsources of parallel text.
For this reason, we have ex-tended our previously developed STRAND systemto locate likely translations in the Internet Archive.Those runs were not yet complete when this paperwas submitted.Printed Dictionaries.
People learning a new languagemake extensive use of bilingual dictionaries, so wehave developed a system that mimics that processto some extent.
Within 12 hours of the announce-ment we had zoned page images from a Cebuano-English dictionary that was available commerciallyin Adobe Page Description Format (PDF) to iden-tify each dictionary entry, performed optical charac-ter recognition, and parsed the entries to construct abilingual term list.
We were aided in this process bythe fact that Cebuano is written in a Roman script.Again, we achieved good precision, with a sampledword error rate for OCR of 6.9% and a precision fora random sample of translation pairs of 87%.
Part ofspeech tags were also extracted, although they arenot used in our process.As this description illustrates, these five sources pro-vide complementary information.
Since there is someuncertainty at the outset about how long it will be beforeeach delivers useful results, we chose a strategy basedon concurrency, balancing our investment over each thefive sources.
This allowed us to use whatever resourcesbecame available first to get an initial system running,with refinements subsequently being made as additionalresources became available.
Because Cebuano and En-glish are written in the same script, we did not need char-acter set conversion or phonetic cognate matching in thiscase.
The CLIR system described in the next sectionwas therefore constructed using only English resourcesthat were (or could have been) pre-assembled, plus aCebuano-English bilingual term list, a rule-based stem-mer, and the Cebuano Bible.3 Building a Cross-Language RetrievalSystemIdeally, we would like to build a system that would findwhatever documents the searcher would wish to read in afully automatic mode.
In practice, fully automatic searchsystems are imperfect even in monolingual applications.We therefore have developed an interactive approach thatfunctions something like a typical Web search engine: (1)the searcher poses their query in English, (2) the sys-tem ranks the Cebuano documents in decreasing orderof likely relevance to the query, (3) the searcher exam-ines a list of document titles in something approximat-ing English, and (4) the searcher may optionally exam-ine the full text of any document in something approx-imating English.
The intent is to support an iterativeprocess in which searchers learn to better express theirquery through experience.
We are only able to providevery rough translations, so we expect that such a sys-tem would be used in an environment where searcherscould send documents that appear promising off for pro-fessional translation when necessary.At the core of our system is the capability to au-tomatically rank Cebuano documents based on an En-glish query.
We chose a query translation architectureusing backoff translation and Pirkola?s structured querymethod, implemented using Inquery version 3.1p1.
Thekey idea in backoff translation is to first try to find con-secutive sequences of query words on the English sideof the bilingual term list, where that fails to try to findthe surface form of each remaining English term, to fallback to stem matching when necessary, and ultimately tofall back to retaining the English term unchanged in thehope that it might be a proper name or some other formof cognate with Cebuano.
Accents are stripped from thedocuments and all language resources to facilitate match-ing at that final step.Although we have chosen techniques that are relativelyrobust and therefore require relatively little domain-specific tuning, stemmer design is an area of uncertaintythat could adversely affect retrieval effectiveness.
Wetherefore needed a test collection on which we could tryout variants of the Cebuano stemmer.
We built this testcollection using 34,000 Cebuano Bible verses and 50 En-glish questions that we found on the Web for which ap-propriate Bible verses were known.
Each question wasposed as a query using the batch mode of Inquery, andthe rank of the known relevant verse was taken as a mea-sure of effectiveness.
We took the mean reciprocal rank(the inverse of the harmonic mean) as a figure of meritfor each configuration, and used a paired two-tailed   -test (with p  0.05) to assess the statistical significance ofobserved differences.
Our initial configuration, withoutstemming, obtained a mean inverse rank of 0.14, whichis a statistically significant improvement over no transla-tion at all (mean inverse rank 0.02 from felicitous cognateand loan word matches).
The addition of Cebuano stem-ming resulted in a reduction in mean inverse rank to 0.09.Although the reduction is not statistically significant inthat case, the result suggests that our initial stemmer isnot yet useful for information retrieval tasks.The other key capability that is needed is title and doc-ument translation.
We can accomplish this in one of twoways.
The simplest approach is to reverse the bilingualterm list, and to reverse the role of Cebuano and En-glish in the process described above for query transla-tion.
Our user interface is capable of displaying multi-ple translations for a single term (arranged horizontallyfor compact depiction or vertically for clearer depiction),but searchers can choose to display only the single mostlikely translation.
When reliable translation probabilitystatistics (from parallel text) are not available, we use therelative word unigram frequency of each translation of aCebuano term in a representative English collection as asubstitute for that probability.
A more sophisticated wayis to build a statistical machine translation system usingparallel text.
We built our first statistical machine trans-lation system within 40 hours of the announcement, andone sentence of the resulting translation using each tech-nique is shown below:Cebuano: ?ang rebeldeng milf, kinsalakip sa nangamatay, nagdala ogbackpack nga dunay explosives nganiguba sa waiting lounge sa airport,matod sa mga defense official.
?Term-by-term translation:?
(carelessness, circumference,conveyence) rebeldeng milf, who lakip(at in of) nangamatay, nagdala ogbackpack nga valid explosives nganiguba (at, in of) waiting lounge(at, in, of) airport, matod (at, in,of) mga defense official?Statistical translation: ?who wasaccused of rank, ehud og nigubawaiting lounge defense of those dumahmilf rebeldeng explosives backpackairport matod official.
?At this point, term-by-term translation is clearly the bet-ter choice.
But as more parallel text becomes available,we expect the situation to reverse.
The LDC is prepar-ing a set of human reference translations that will allowus to detect that changeover point automatically using theNIST variant of the BLEU measure for machine transla-tion effectiveness.4 ConclusionThe results reported in this paper were accomplished bya team of 20 people with expertise in various facets of tetask that invested about 250 person-hours over two anda half days.
As additional Cebuano-specific evaluationresources are developed, we expect to gain additional in-sight into the quality of these early resources.
Moreover,once we see what works best for Cebuano by the end ofthe process, we plan to revisit our process design withan eye towards better optimizing our initial time invest-ments.
We expect to be able to address both of thosepoints in detail by the time of the conference.This exercise was originally envisioned as a dry run towork out the kinks in our process, and indeed we havealready learned a lot on that score.
First, we learned thatour basic approach seems sound; we built the key com-ponents of an interactive CLIR system in about 40 hours,and by the 60-hour point we had some basis for believingthat each of those components could at least minimallyfulfill their role in a fully integrated system.
Some of ourtime was, however, spent on things that could have beendone in advance.
Perhaps the most important of thesewas the development of an information retrieval test col-lection using the Bible.
That job, and numerous smallerones, are now done, so we expect that we will be able toobtain similar results with about half the effort next timearound.AcknowledgmentsThanks to Clara Cabezas, Tim Hackman, Margie Hi-nonangan, Burcu Karagol-Ayan, Okan Kolak, HuanfengMa, Grazia Russo-Lassner, Michael Subotin, JianqiangWang and the LDC!
This work has been supported in partby DARPA contract N660010028910.
