Monolingual and Bilingual Concept Visualization from CorporaDominic Widdows Scott CederbergCenter for the Study of Language and Information, Stanford University{dwiddows,cederber}@csli.stanford.eduAs well as identifying relevant information, a suc-cessful information management system must be able topresent its findings in terms which are familiar to the user,which is especially challenging when the incoming in-formation is in a foreign language (Levow et al, 2001).We demonstrate techniques which attempt to address thischallenge by placing terms in an abstract ?informationspace?
based on their occurrences in text corpora, andthen allowing a user to visualize local regions of this in-formation space.
Words are plotted in a 2-dimensionalpicture so that related words are close together and wholeclasses of similar words occur in recognizable clusterswhich sometimes clearly signify a particular meaning.
Aswell as giving a clear view of which concepts are relatedin a particular document collection, this technique alsohelps a user to interpret unknown words.The main technique we will demonstrate is planar pro-jection of word-vectors from a vector space built usingLatent Semantic Analysis (LSA) (Landauer and Dumais,1997; Schu?tze, 1998), a method which can be appliedmultilingually if translated corpora are available for train-ing.
Following the method of Schu?tze (1998), we assigneach word 1000 coordinates based on the number of timesthat word occurs in a 15 word window with one of 1000?content-bearing words?, chosen by frequency, and thenumber of coordinates is reduced to 100 ?latent dimen-sions?
using LSA.This is still far too many words and too many dimen-sions to be visualized at once.
To produce a meaningfuldiagram of results related to a particular word or query,we perform two extra steps.
Firstly, we restrict atten-tion to a given number of closely related words (deter-mined by cosine similarity of word vectors), selecting alocal group of up to 100 words and their word vectorsfor deeper analysis.
A second round of Latent Seman-tic Analysis is then performed on this restricted set, giv-ing the most significant directions to describe this localinformation.
The 2 most significant axes determine theplane which best represents the data.
(This process canbe regarded as a higher-dimensional analogue of findingthe line of best-fit for a normal 2-dimensional graph.)
Theresulting diagrams give an summary of the areas of mean-ing in which a word is actually used in a particular docu-ment collection.This is particularly effective for visualizing words inmore than one language.
This can be achieved by build-ing a single latent semantic vector space incorporat-ing words from two languages using a parallel corpus(Littman et al, 1998; Widdows et al, 2002b).
We willdemonstrate a system which does this for English andGerman terms in the medical domain.
The system istrained on a corpus of 10,000 abstracts from Germanmedical documents available with their English transla-tions 1.
In the demonstration, users submit a query state-ment consisting of any combination of words in Englishor German, and are then able to visualize the words mostclosely related to this query in a 2-dimensional plot of thelatent semantic space.An example output for the English query word drug isshown in Figure below.
2.
Such words are of specialinterest because the English word drug has two mean-ings which are represented by different words in German(medikament = prescription drug and drogen = narcotic).The 2-dimensional plot clearly distinguishes these twoareas of meaning, with the English word drug being inbetween.
Such techniques can enable users to recognizeand understand translational ambiguities.As well as the Springer abstracts corpus, the systemhas been trained to work with the parallel English/FrenchCanadian Hansard corpus and several large monolingualcorpora.
Other functionalities of this system include au-tomatic thesaurus generation, clustering of terms to deter-mine different context areas, query refinement and docu-ment retrieval.As well as LSA, which only uses broad ?bag of words?1Available from the Springer Link website,http://link.springer.de/2In the actual demonstration, English results appear in redand German results in blue: for the description here we haveused different fonts instead.Edmonton, May-June 2003Demonstrations , pp.
31-32Proceedings of HLT-NAACL 2003DRUGDRUGSFATALITIESFORENSICCOCAINEABUSEMETHADONEOPIATESANTIEPILEPTICTHCURINEANTICONVULSANTNEUROTRANSMISSIONCANNABINOIDSDOSAGEDEPENDENCEPIGMENTATIONHAIRANTIARRHYTHMICSEROTONERGICHEROINdrogentodesfa?llekokaindrogensubstanzenantiepileptikamedikamento?seantiarrhythmikaopiatedrogenabha?ngigen medikamentemedikamentenpharmakamethadongcheroinpigmentierungarzneimittelsubstanzwirksamewirksamerbeta?ubungsmittelFigure 1: ENGLISH and German terms related to the English word drug in the Springer medical abstracts.coocurrence to define similarities, mathematical modelscan be built using local coordination of terms based onsyntactic properties.
For example, list of nouns such as?apples, pears and oranges?
can be used as informationthat these words are all linked, and these links can berecorded in a database which can also be analyzed usingvisualization techniques (Widdows et al, 2002a) and willbe included in the demonstration.Demonstration websiteVersions of these demonstrations are publicly avail-able through the CSLI Infomap project website,(http://infomap.stanford.edu/).AcknowledgmentsThis research was supported in part by the ResearchCollaboration between the NTT Communication ScienceLaboratories, Nippon Telegraph and Telephone Corpora-tion and CSLI, Stanford University, and by EC/NSF grantIST-1999-11438 for the MUCHMORE project.ReferencesT.
Landauer and S. Dumais.
1997.
A solution to plato?sproblem: The latent semantic analysis theory of acqui-sition.
Psychological Review, 104(2):211?240.Gina-Anne Levow, Douglas W. Oard, and Philip Resnik.2001.
Rapidly retargetable interactive translingual re-trieval.
In Human Language Technology Conference(HLT 2001), San Diego, CA.Michael L. Littman, Susan T. Dumais, and Thomas K.Landauer.
1998.
Automatic cross-language informa-tion retrieval using latent semantic indexing.
In Gre-gory Grefenstette, editor, Cross-language informationretrieval, chapter 4.
Kluwer, Boston.Hinrich Schu?tze.
1998.
Automatic word sense discrimi-nation.
Computational Linguistics, 24(1):97?124.Dominic Widdows, Scott Cederberg, and Beate Dorow.2002a.
Visualisation techniques for analysing mean-ing.
In Fifth International Conference on Text, Speechand Dialogue, Lecture Notes in Artificial Intelligence2448, pages 107?115, Brno, Czech Republic, Septem-ber.
Springer.Dominic Widdows, Beate Dorow, and Chiu-Ki Chan.2002b.
Using parallel corpora to enrich multilinguallexical resources.
In Third International Conferenceon Language Resources and Evaluation, pages 240?245, Las Palmas, Spain, May.
