Columbia?s Newsblaster: New Features and Future DirectionsKathleen McKeown, Regina Barzilay, John Chen, David Elson, David Evans,Judith Klavans, Ani Nenkova, Barry Schiffman and Sergey SigelmanDepartment of Computer ScienceColumbia University1214 Amsterdam Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10027kathy@cs.columbia.eduAbstractColumbia?s Newsblaster tracking and summa-rization system is a robust system that clus-ters news into events, categorizes events intobroad topics and summarizes multiple articleson each event.
Here we outline our most cur-rent work on tracking events over days, produc-ing summaries that update a user on new infor-mation about an event, outlining the perspec-tives of news coming from different countriesand clustering and summarizing non-Englishsources.1 IntroductionColumbia?s Newsblaster1 provide news updates on adaily basis from news published on the Internet; it crawlsnews sites, categorizes stories into six broad areas, groupsnews into stories on the same event, and generates a sum-mary of the multiple articles describing each event.
In ad-dition to demonstrating the robustness of current summa-rization and tracking technology, Newsblaster also servesas a research environment in which we explore new di-rections and problems.
Currently, we are exploring thetasks of multilingual summarization where input sourcesare drawn frommultiple languages and a summary is gen-erated in English on the same event (Figure 1), trackingevents across days and generating summaries that updatethe user on what is new, and editing generated summariesto improve fluency and accuracy.
Our focus here is onediting references to people, improving coherency of thesummary and ensuring that references are accurate.
Edit-ing is particularly important as we add multilingual capa-bilities, given the errors inherent in machine translation.1http://newsblaster.cs.columbia.edu2 Multilingual Tracking andSummarizationThe multilingual version of Columbia Newsblaster isbuilt upon the English version of Columbia Newsblaster,sharing the same structure and components.
To add mul-tilingual capability, the system first crawls web sites inforeign languages, and stores both the language and en-coding for the files.
To extract the article text from theHTML pages, we use a new article extraction componentusing language-independent statistical features computedover text blocks along with a machine learning compo-nent to classify text blocks as one of ?Article Text?, ?Ti-tle?, ?Image?, ?Image Caption?, or ?Other?.
The articleextraction component has been trained and tested on En-glish, Japanese, and Russian data, but is also being suc-cessfully applied to French, Spanish, German, and Ital-ian data.
We plan to train the article extractor on otherlanguages (Chinese, Arabic, Korean, Spanish, German,French, etc.)
in the near future.To cluster multilingual documents with English doc-uments, we use the existing Newsblaster English doc-ument clustering module.
Non-English documents aretranslated for clustering after the article extraction phase.We use simple and fast document translation techniquesfor clustering if available, since we potentially processthousands of documents for a language for each run.
Wehave developed simple dictionary lookup techniques fortranslation for clustering for Japanese and Russian; forother languages we use an interface to the Systran trans-lation system via Babelfish.
We plan on adding Arabictranslation to the system in the near future.Summarization is performed using the same summa-rization strategies in Newsblaster.
We are experimentingwith different methods for improving summary qualitywhen translation of text is noisy.
For example, when aninput cluster contains both English and foreign sources,we weight the English higher in cases where we deter-mine it is representative of both the English and foreignEdmonton, May-June 2003Demonstrations , pp.
15-16Proceedings of HLT-NAACL 2003Figure 1: Multilingual Versioninput documents.
We are also experimenting with meth-ods for determining similarity across documents usingdifferent levels of translation.3 Different PerspectivesWhen news media report on international issues, they re-flect the perspectives of their own countries.
In the past,Newsblaster has included all international sources as in-put to its summaries.
Recently, we have added a featureof ?international perspectives?
to the system.
In additionto the universal summary for a particular event, whichincludes all international sources, Newsblaster now gen-erates separate summaries for each country, which mayillustrate unique biases or disagree on facts.
The News-blaster interface allows users to view any pair of sum-maries side by side to compare different perspectives.4 Summary RewriteNewsblaster also currently includes a module for rewrit-ing summaries to achieve better readability.
Referencesto people are rewritten so that the first mention includesthe person?s full name and a selected description and latermentions are restricted to last name only.
In addition toimproving readability, the rewritten version of the sum-mary is usually shorter than the version before rewrite,since multiple verbose descriptions of the same entity arediscarded.
These changes can be seen when comparingthe summary sentence with the original document via alink from the summary using a proxy.5 Event Tracking and UpdatesNewsblaster currently identifies events within a singleday; a new set of clusters is generated each day.
We havedesigned a new module for tracking events across days,allowing the system to relate stories published on one dayto closely related stories on other days.
In this way, theuser can more easily track events of interest as they un-fold.
The typical approach for tracking events across daysrepresents each event as one monolithic set of stories.
Wehave focused instead on a model where events on one daycan divide into related sub-events on the next day.
For ex-ample, a set of stories about the start of the Iraq war is anevent that can branch into multiple sets of stories, each setrepresenting a different facet of the war.
We are currentlydetermining an appropriate evaluation of this approach aswell as investigating different possible interfaces.If a user is tracking events across days, it is more usefulto have a summary that provides updates on what is newas opposed to a summary of similarities across all days.We have built a prototype update summarizer that scansnew articles extracted by the system and compares thesenew articles with a background cluster on the same event.The summarizer will provide the user with a summary ofonly important new developments.
As the tracking mod-ule locates new articles, it will pass these to the updatesummarizer, which will determine what, if anything, haschanged.
This summarizer uses more syntactic and se-mantic information about the articles to determine nov-elty than is used in our other summarization strategies andthus, efficiency is a challenge.
We will demo these com-ponents in a separately fromNewsblaster as they have notyet been integrated in the development version.
