DOGHED: A Template-Based Generator for Multimodal Dialog SystemsTargeting Heterogeneous Devices?Songsak Channarukul and Susan W. McRoy and Syed S. AliNatural Language and Knowledge Representation Research GroupDepartment of Electrical Engineering and Computer ScienceUniversity of Wisconsin-Milwaukee{songsak,mcroy,syali}@uwm.edu1 IntroductionThis paper describes DOGHED (Dialog Output Gener-ator for HEterogeneous Devices), a multimodal genera-tion component which is a part of a dialog system thatsupports adaptation of multimodal content based on userpreferences and their current device.
Existing dialog sys-tems focus on generating output for a single device thatmight not be suitable when users access the system us-ing different devices.
Multimedia presentation systemscan be built that support several device types.
However,most content presentation and layout is done off-line anddefined at the document level.Dialog facilitates the process of tailoring the interac-tion to the dynamically changing needs of the user.
Withsupport for dialog, a computer can regulate the pace atwhich users receive content, help focus the user?s atten-tion, and interleave actions that will help the system mon-itor (and adjust) to the user?s understanding or satisfac-tion.
Minimally, dialog systems should adapt the interac-tion to the user?s ability to understand.
However, dialogsystems should also be able to adapt to the user?s comput-ing environment, because people access computers notonly through traditional workstations and terminals, butalso through personal digital assistants and cellular tele-phones.
Each of these devices has a distinct set of phys-ical capabilities, as well as a distinct set of functions forwhich it is typically used.2 DOGHEDDOGHED is a template-based multimodal output gen-erator for dialog systems that need to support hetero-geneous devices.
It enables dialog systems to createmultimodal presentations for different devices in real-time.
DOGHED extends YAG (Yet Another Generator),?We acknowledge the financial support of the NationalScience Foundation (under grants IRI-9701617 and DUE-9952703), Wright State University, and Intel Corporation.a template-based text realization system (Channarukul etal., 2000; Channarukul et al, 2001; McRoy et al, 2003)by providing a pre-defined set of multimodal templates.It employs JYAG (Channarukul et al, 2002), the Java im-plementation of YAG, to realize those templates for fur-ther display by appropriate browsers.
It provides outputin the Synchronized Multimedia Integration Language(SMIL) which can be presented on any SMIL player suchas RealOne Player and X-SMILES (Pihkala et al, 2001);or any capable web browser.DOGHED is a generic and domain-independent com-ponent for generating multimodal presentations in that itaccepts a feature structure as input.
These feature struc-tures can also embed other feature structures to representa more complicated input specification.
Moreover, an ap-plication can specify content, user preferences, and de-vice constraints (e.g., multimedia capabilities, screen sizeand resolution, and network bandwidth) using this uni-form formalism.
Natural language can also be insertedby embedding a feature structure that calls for realizationusing one or more YAG?s English syntactic templates.3 Multimodal TemplatesThere are two types of multimodal templates.
The firsttype is for generating individual SMIL tags and struc-tures.
The other type is more abstract and captures thesemantics of multimodal presentation.
A semantic tem-plate can be authored so that an application only needs tospecify its selected content, intended presentation style,and other constraints.
Output will then be generated tobest suit the given style and constraints.
For example, anapplication might want to compare two diagrams or itemsthat are related.
On large display devices, both items canbe displayed side-by-side.
However, on smaller displaydevices, like PDAs, such presentation is not possible; itwould be better to display one item at a time and switchbetween the two items being compared.Edmonton, May-June 2003Demonstrations , pp.
5-6Proceedings of HLT-NAACL 2003Figure 1: A Screenshot of IDEY with an Integrated SMIL Player.4 Template Authoring ToolIn addition to the pre-defined multimodal template set,application developers can write their own templates tosuit their needs.
These new templates can be written fromscratch or built on top of existing ones.
We facilitatethe task of template authoring by providing a graphicaldevelopment environment.
IDEY (Integrated Develop-ment Environment for YAG) provides support for author-ing, testing, and managing templates (Channarukul et al,2002).
Its graphical interface reduces the amount of timeneeded for syntax familiarization through direct manip-ulation and template visualization.
It also allows a de-veloper to test newly constructed templates easily.
Mul-timodal output can be immediately displayed and veri-fied on an integrated SMIL player (Figure 1).
Moreover,the interface also helps prevent errors by constraining theway in which templates may be constructed or modified.For example, values of slots in templates are constrainedby context-sensitive pop-up menu choices.ReferencesSongsak Channarukul, Susan W. McRoy, and Syed S.Ali.
2000.
Enriching Partially-Specified Representa-tions for Text Realization using An Attribute Grammar.In Proceedings of The First International Natural Lan-guage Generation Conference, pages 163?170, Israel,June.Songsak Channarukul, Susan McRoy, and Syed Ali.2001.
YAG: A Template-Based Text Realization Sys-tem for Dialog.
Journal of Uncertainty, Fuzziness, andKnowledge-Based Systems, 9(6):649?659.Songsak Channarukul, Susan W. McRoy, and Syed S.Ali.
2002.
JYAG and IDEY: a Template-Based Nat-ural Language Generator and Its Authoring Tool.
InCompanion Volume to the Proceedings of the 40thMeeting of the Association for Computational Linguis-tics (ACL), pages 89?90, July.Susan W. McRoy, Songsak Channarukul, and Syed S.Ali.
2003.
An Augmented Template-Based Approachto Text Realization.
Natural Language Engineering,9(2):1?40.Kari Pihkala, Niklas von Knorring, and Petri Vuorimaa.2001.
SMIL for X-SMILES.
In Proceedings of theSeventh International Conference on Distributed Mul-timedia Systems, Tamkang University, Taipei, Taiwan,September.
