Automatic Expansion of Equivalent Sentence SetBased on Syntactic SubstitutionKenji Imamura, Yasuhiro Akiba and Eiichiro SumitaATR Spoken Language Translation Research Laboratories2-2-2 Hikaridai, ?Keihanna Science City?, Kyoto, 619-0288, Japan{kenji.imamura,yasuhiro.akiba,eiichiro.sumita}@atr.co.jpAbstractIn this paper, we propose an automatic quan-titative expansion method for a sentence setthat contains sentences of the same meaning(called an equivalent sentence set).
This taskis regarded as paraphrasing.
The features ofour method are: 1) The paraphrasing rules aredynamically acquired by Hierarchical PhraseAlignment from the equivalent sentence set,and 2) A large equivalent sentence set is gen-erated by substituting source syntactic struc-tures.
Our experiments show that 561 sen-tences on average are correctly generated from8.48 equivalent sentences.1 IntroductionSentences can be represented by various expressions eventhough they have the same meaning.
Paraphrasing thattransfer from sentence to sentence (Barzilay and McK-eown, 2001) is a technique that generates such variousexpressions.In this paper, we propose an automatic quantitativeexpansion method for a sentence set that contains sen-tences of the same meaning (called an equivalent sen-tence set), as a paraphrasing technique.
Our method isroughly structured from the following two phases.1.
Extract phrasal correspondences that have the samemeaning (called equivalent phrases) from the sourceequivalent sentence set (acquisition phase).2.
Based on the parse tree of the sentence selectedfrom the source set, generate target sentences by re-cursively substituting the equivalent phrases for thesource phrases (generation phase).Paraphrasing is regarded as machine translation intothe same language.
In this paper, we apply syntactic sub-stitution for generating sentences, which corresponds totransfer-based machine translation.
In addition, Hierar-chical Phrase Alignment (HPA) (Imamura, 2001), whichis an automatic acquisition method for machine transla-tion rules, is applied to acquire the paraphrasing rules.Namely, two equivalent sentences are regarded as bilin-gual sentences, and simplified machine translation is car-ried out.Paraphrasing by our method has the following charac-teristics. Not only lexical paraphrasing but also phrasal para-phrasing can be generated because our method isbased on structural substitution. Equivalent phrases extracted by HPA are not onlysemantically but also grammatically equivalent.Thus, our method rarely generates ungrammaticalsentences by substitution.Expansion of the equivalent sentence set can be ap-plied to automatic evaluation of machine translation qual-ity (Papineni et al, 2002; Akiba et al, 2001), for exam-ple.
These methods evaluate the quality of the transla-tion by measuring the similarity between machine trans-lation results and translations done by humans (called ref-erences).
However, the accuracy increases when multi-ple references are applied because one source sentencecan be translated into multiple target expressions.
Ourmethod generates multiple sentences that are suitable forthis purpose.2 Acquisition of Paraphrasing Rules:Hierarchical Phrase AlignmentHierarchical Phrase Alignment is based on the assump-tion that an ?equivalent phrase pair has the same informa-tion and the same grammatical role.?
We decompose thisassumption into the following two conditions for compu-tation. The words in the phrase pair correspond, with nodeficiency and no excess. The phrases are of the same syntactic category.Therefore, HPA is a task to extract phrase pairs thatsatisfy the above two conditions.
The procedure of HPAis summarized as follows.
11.
Tag and parse two equivalent sentences.2.
Extract corresponding words (called word links) be-tween the sentences.
In this paper, we regard identi-cal words and words that belong to the same groupin a thesaurus as word links.3.
Check all combinations of syntactic nodes betweenthe sentences.
If the node pair satisfies the abovetwo conditions, then output the pair as an equivalentphrase.
Namely, if no words in the phrase link to theoutside of the other phrase, and the nodes have thesame category, the phrase pair is regarded as equiv-alent.Figure 1 shows an example of equivalent phrase extrac-tion from source equivalent sentences.
The upper sen-tence is interrogative, the lower sentence is imperative,and they have the same meaning.
For example, focusingon the upper phrase ?get me,?
this phrase is VP and con-tains two word links.
However, no nodes contain only thelinks ?get?, and ?me?
in the lower sentence.
On the otherhand, focusing on the upper phrase ?get me a taxi,?
it con-tains four word links that correspond to the lower phrase?get a taxi for me?, and they have the same syntactic cat-egory.
Therefore, the node pair VP(4) is regarded as anequivalent phrase.By iterating the above process, HPA consequently ex-tracts eight nodes as equivalents from the source sen-tences shown in Figure 1.
Excluding the identicalphrases, the following three phrases are acquired asequivalent phrases. ?get me a taxi?
and ?get a taxi for me? ?10 in the morning?
and ?10 a.m.? ?at 10 in the morning?
and ?at 10 a.m.?HPA can extract phrasal correspondences from sourceequivalent sentences even if their sentence structuresare significantly different.
In addition, because nodepairs have to be in the same syntactic category, un-paraphrasable correspondences, such as ?morning?
and?a.m.,?
are ignored even though they have word links.3 Expansion of Equivalent Sentence SetThe equivalent phrases extracted by HPA are substi-tutable with one another because they are semanticallyand grammatically equivalent.
Therefore, they are re-garded as bi-directional paraphrasing rules.
When weparaphrase from any N sentences, target equivalent sen-tences are generated by the following procedure, where1The original method of HPA has two additional features.1) Ambiguity of parsing is resolved by comparing parse trees ofinput sentences.
2) It employs partial parsing to analyze irregu-lar sentences.
Details are described in (Imamura, 2001).Would you get me a taxi at 10 in the morning?Please get a taxi for me at 10 a.m.NPNMPNP(5)VMP(6)NP(1)NP(2)VP(3)VPVP(4)VP(7)S(8)NP(5)VMP(6)NP(2)NP(1)VMPVP(3)VPVP(4)VP(7)ADVPVPS(8)Figure 1: Example of Equivalent Phrase Extraction fromEnglish Equivalent Sentences (The lines between the sen-tences denote word links, the trees denote parsing re-sults, and the numbers on the nodes denote correspondingequivalent phrases.
)the range from Step 1 to Step 3 corresponds to the acqui-sition phase, and Steps 4 and 5 correspond to the genera-tion phase.1.
First, select one sentence from the source equivalentsentence set.2.
Process HPA with the remaining (N ?
1) sentences,and extract equivalent phrases.3.
Repeat Steps 1 and 2 for all combinations of thesource sentences.
All phrases that construct thesource set and their paraphrasing rules are acquired.4.
Next, select one tree created by HPA from the sourceequivalent sentence set, and trace the tree top-down.If a node registered in the paraphrasing rules isfound, substitute the equivalent phrase for the node.Substitution is recursively done until it reaches aleaf.5.
Repeat Step 4 with all sentences in the source set.For example, when the source equivalent sentence setcontains only the two sentences shown in Figure 1, thefollowing six sentences are generated.
Our method gen-erates all sentences constructed from the phrases of Nsentences.Would you get a taxi for me at 10 a.m.?Would you get a taxi for me at 10 in the morning?Would you get me a taxi at 10 a.m.?Please get me a taxi at 10 in the morningPlease get me a taxi at 10 a.m.Please get a taxi for me at 10 in the morning.1101001000100000 20 40 60 80 100 120 140 160 180Number of GeneratedSentencesNumber of Equivalent PhrasesFigure 2: Relationship between Number of EquivalentPhrases and Number of Generated SentencesJapanese CorrectnessOK NG TotalTranslation OK 892 (61%) 382 (26%) 1274 (86%)Effectiveness NG 87 ( 6%) 112 ( 8%) 199 (14%)Total 979 (66%) 494 (34%) 1473 (100%)Table 1: Quality of Generated Sentences4 ExperimentsExpansion experiments of Japanese equivalent sentenceswere carried out.
We used 339 source equivalent sentencesets selected from ATR corpus (Furuse et al, 1994).
Thesets were created by having ten Japanese native speakerstranslate English sentences into Japanese.
The number ofdifferent sentences was 8.48 sentences per English sen-tence on average.Number of Generated Sentences Figure 2 is a graphplotting the number of equivalent phrases and the numberof of generated sentences.
Each point denotes a sourceequivalent sentence set.
Consequently 60.2 equivalentphrases on average were acquired, and 920 sentences onaverage were generated from a source set.Quality of Generated Sentences We randomly se-lected five sentences per set from above generated sen-tences and showed them to a Japanese native speaker to-gether with the English sentences.
One-by-one, he/shejudged whether the sentences were good or not from theviewpoints of Japanese correctness (grammatically andpragmatically correct or not) and translation effectiveness(understandable or not).
The results are shown in Table1.Consequently, approximately 61 percent of the gener-ated sentences were judged good from the viewpoints ofboth Japanese correctness and translation effectiveness.In other words, 561 sentences on average were correctlygenerated, and the source equivalent sentence sets wereexpanded about 66 times.
About 39% of the generatedsentences contain errors.
However, we believe that ourmethod is effective when we make a large equivalent sen-tence set because eliminating error sentences is easierthan creating a large set manually.Our error analysis found that major errors are causedby inconsistency in the modality.
Our method does notconsider pragmatical correctness although it generatessyntactically correct sentences.5 ConclusionWe proposed an expansion method for an equivalent sen-tence set based on syntactic substitution.
Our method dy-namically acquires paraphrasing rules by using HPA, andgenerates many sentences by applying the rules to a parsetree recursively.
One application of our method is the au-tomatic evaluation of machine translation quality.
We areplanning to integrate this method into a form of automaticevaluation.AcknowledgmentThe research reported here is supported in part by a con-tract with the Telecommunications Advancement Orga-nization of Japan entitled, ?A study of speech dialoguetranslation technology based on a large corpus.
?ReferencesYasuhiro Akiba, Kenji Imamura, and Eiichiro Sumita.2001.
Using multiple edit distances to automaticallyrank machine translation output.
In Proceedings ofMachine Translation Summit VIII, pages 15?20.Regina Barzilay and Kathleen R. McKeown.
2001.
Ex-tracting paraphrases from a parallel corpus.
In Pro-ceedings of the 39th Annual Meeting of the Associationfor Computational Linguistics, pages 50?57.Osamu Furuse, Y. Sobashima, Toshiyuki Takezawa, andN.
Uratani.
1994.
Bilingual corpus for speech transla-tion.
In Proceedings of the AAAI?94 Workshop ?Inte-gration of Natural Language and Speech Processing?,pages 84?91.Kenji Imamura.
2001.
Hierarchical phrase alignmentharmonized with parsing.
In Proceedings of the 6thNatural Language Processing Pacific Rim Symposium(NLPRS 2001), pages 377?384.Kishore Papineni, Salim Roukos, Todd Ward, and Wei-Jing Zhu.
2002.
Bleu: a method for automatic evalua-tion of machine translation.
In Proceedings of the 40thAnnual Meeting of the Association for ComputationalLinguistics (ACL), pages 311?318.
