Open Text Semantic Parsing Using FrameNet and WordNetLei Shi and Rada MihalceaDepartment of Computer Science and EngineeringUniversity of North Texasleishi@unt.edu, rada@cs.unt.eduAbstractThis paper describes a rule-based semantic parserthat relies on a frame dataset (FrameNet), and asemantic network (WordNet), to identify seman-tic relations between words in open text, as wellas shallow semantic features associated with con-cepts in the text.
Parsing semantic structures al-lows semantic units and constituents to be ac-cessed and processed in a more meaningful waythan syntactic parsing, moving the automation ofunderstanding natural language text to a higherlevel.1 IntroductionThe goal of the semantic parser is to analyze the semanticstructure of a natural language sentence.
Similar in spiritwith the syntactic parser ?
whose goal is to parse a valid nat-ural language sentence into a parse tree indicating how thesentence can be syntactically decomposed into smaller syn-tactic constituents ?
the purpose of the semantic parser is toanalyze the structure of sentence meaning.
Sentence mean-ing is composed by entities and interactions between enti-ties, where entities are assigned semantic roles, and can befurther modified by other modifiers.
The meaning of a sen-tence is decomposed into smaller semantic units connectedby various semantic relations by the principle of composi-tionality, and the parser represents the semantic structure ?including semantic units as well as semantic relations, con-necting them into a formal format.One major problem faced by many natural language un-derstanding applications that rely on syntactic analysis oftext, is the fact that similar syntactic patterns may introducedifferent semantic interpretations.
Likewise, similar mean-ings can be syntactically realized in many different ways.The semantic parser attempts to solve this problem, andproduces a syntax-independent representation of sentencemeaning, so that semantic constituents can be accessed andprocessed in a more meaningful and flexible way, avoidingthe sometimes rigid interpretations produced by a syntacticanalyzer.
For instance, the sentences I boil water and waterboils contain a similar relation between water and boil, eventhough they have different syntactic structures.In this paper, we describe the main components of the se-mantic parser, and illustrate the basic procedures involvedin parsing semantically open text.
Our semantic parser de-parts from current approaches in statistics-based annotationsof semantic structures.
Instead, we are using publicly avail-able lexical resources (FrameNet and WordNet) as a startingpoint to derive rules for a rule-based semantic parser.2 Semantic StructureSemantics is the denotation of a string of symbols, eithera sentence or a word.
Similar to a syntactic parser, whichshows how a larger string is formed by smaller strings froma formal point of view, the semantic parser shows how thedenotation of a larger string ?
sentence, is formed by deno-tations of smaller strings ?
words.
Syntactic relations can bedescribed using a set of rules about how a sentence stringis formally generated using word strings.
Instead, seman-tic relations between semantic constituents depend on ourunderstanding of the world, which is across languages andsyntax.We can model the sentence semantics as describing enti-ties and interactions between entities.
Entities can representphysical objects, as well as time, places, or ideas, and areusually formally realized as nouns or noun phrases.
Inter-actions, usually realized as verbs, describe relationships orinteractions between participating entities.
Note that a par-ticipant can also be an interaction, which can be regardedas an entity nominalized from an interaction.
We assign se-mantic roles to participants and their semantic relations areidentified by the case frame introduced by their interaction.In a sentence, participants and interactions can be furthermodified by various modifiers, including descriptive mod-ifiers that describe attributes such as drive slowly, restric-tive modifiers that enforce a general denotation to becomemore specific such as musical instrument, referential modi-fiers that indicate particular instances such as the pizza I or-dered.
Other semantic relations can also be identified, suchas coreference, complement, and others.
Based on the prin-ciple of compositionality, the sentence semantic structure isrecursive, similar to a tree.Note that the semantic parser analyzes shallow-level se-mantics, which is derived directly from linguistic knowl-edge, such as rules about semantic role assignment, lexi-cal semantic knowledge, and syntactic-semantic mappings,without taking into account any context or common senseknowledge.
Hence, the parser can be used as an interme-diate semantic processing level before higher levels of textunderstanding.3 Knowledge Bases for Semantic ParsingThe parser relies on two main types of knowledge ?
aboutwords, and about relations between words.
The first type ofknowledge is drawn from WordNet ?
a large lexical databasewith rich information about words and concepts.
We referto this as word-level knowledge.
The latter is derived fromFrameNet ?
a resource that contains information about dif-ferent situations, called frames, in which semantic relationsare syntactically realized in natural language sentences.
Wecall this sentence-level knowledge.
In addition to these twolexical knowledge bases, the parser also utilizes a set of man-ually defined rules, which encode mappings from syntacticstructures to semantic relations, and which are used to han-dle those structures not explicitly addressed by FrameNet orWordNet.
In this section, we describe the type of informa-tion extracted from these knowledge bases, and show howthis information is encoded in a format accessible to the se-mantic parser.3.1 Sentence Level KnowledgeFrameNet (Johnson et al, 2002) provides the knowl-edge needed to identify case frames and semantic roles.FrameNet is based on the theory of frame semantics, and de-fines a sentence level ontology.
In frame semantics, a framecorresponds to an interaction and its participants, both ofwhich denote a scenario, in which participants play somekind of roles.
A frame has a name, and we use this nameto identify the semantic relation that groups together the se-mantic roles.
Nouns, verbs and adjectives can be used toidentify frames.Each annotated sentence in FrameNet exemplifies a pos-sible syntactic realization for the semantic roles associatedwith a frame for a given target word.
By extracting the syn-tactic features and corresponding semantic roles from all an-notated sentences in the FrameNet corpus, we are able to au-tomatically build a large set of rules that encode the possiblesyntactic realizations of semantic frames.3.1.1 Rules Learned from FrameNetFrameNet data ?is meant to be lexicographically relevant,not statistically representative?
(Johnson et al, 2002), andtherefore we are using FrameNet as a starting point to deriverules for a rule-based semantic parser.To build the rules, we are extracting several syntactic fea-tures.
Some are explicitly encoded in FrameNet, such as thegrammatical function (GF) and phrase type (PT) features.In addition, other syntactic features are extracted from thesentence context.
One such feature is the relative position(RP) to the target word.
Another feature is the voice of thesentence.
If the phrase type is prepositional phrase (PP), wealso record the actual preposition that precedes the phrase.After we extract all these syntactic features, the semanticrole is appended to the rule, which creates a mapping fromsyntactic features to semantic roles.Feature sets are arranged in a list, the order of which isidentical to that in the sentence.
Altogether, the rule for apossible realization of a frame exemplified by a tagged sen-tence is an ordered sequence of syntactic features with theirsemantic roles.
For example, the corresponding formalizedrule for the sentence I had chased Selden over the moor is:[active, [ext,np,before,theme], [obj,np,after,goal],[comp,pp,after,over,path]]In FrameNet, there are multiple annotated sentences foreach frame to demonstrate multiple possible syntactic real-izations.
All possible realizations of a frame are collectedand stored in a list for that frame, which also includes the tar-get word, its syntactic category, and the name of the frame.All the frames defined in FrameNet are transformed into thisformat, so that they can be easily handled by the rule-basedsemantic parser.3.2 Word Level KnowledgeWordNet (Miller, 1995) is the resource used to identify shal-low semantic features that can be attached to lexical units.For instance, attribute relations, adjective/adverb classifica-tions, and others, are semantic features extracted from Word-Net and stored together with the words, so that they can bedirectly used in the parsing process.All words are uniformly defined, regardless of their class.Features are assigned to each word, including syntactic andshallow semantic features, indicating the functions playedby the word.
Syntactic features are used by the feature-augmented syntactic analyzer to identify grammatical errorsand produce syntactic information for semantic role assign-ment.
Semantic features encode lexical semantic informa-tion extracted from WordNet that is used to determine se-mantic relations between words in various situations.Features can be arbitrarily defined, as long as there arerules to handle them.
The features we define encode infor-mation about the syntactic category of a word, number andcountability for nouns, transitivity and form for verbs, type,degree, and attribute for adjectives and adverbs, and others.For example, for the adjective slow, the entry in the lexi-con is defined as:lex(slow,W):- W= [parse:slow, cat:adj, attr:speed,degree:base, type:descriptive].Here, the category (cat) is defined as adjective, the typeis descriptive, degree is base form.
We also record the attrfeature, which is derived from the attribute relation in Word-Net, and links a descriptive adjective to the attribute (noun)it modifies, such as slow   speed.4 The Semantic ParserThe parsing algorithm is implemented as a rule-based sys-tem.
The general procedure of semantic parsing consists ofthree main steps: (1) syntactic parsing into an intermedi-ate format, using a feature-augmented syntactic parser, andassignment of shallow semantic features; (2) semantic roleassignment; (3) application of default rules.4.1 Feature Augmented Syntactic/Semantic AnalyzerThe semantic parser is based on dependencies betweenwords that are identified using a structure analyzer.
The an-alyzer generates an intermediate format, where target wordsand syntactic arguments are explicitly identified, so that theycan be matched against the rules derived from FrameNet.The intermediate format also encodes some shallow seman-tic features, including word level semantics (e.g.
attribute,gender), and semantic relations that have direct syntacticcorrespondence (e.g.
modifier types).
The function of thesentence is also identified, as assertion, query, yn-query,command.The analyzer is based on a feature augmented grammar,and has the capability of detecting if a sentence is gram-matically correct (unlike statistical parsers, which attempt toparse any sentence, regardless of their well-formness).
Con-stituents are assigned with features, and the grammar con-sists of a set of rules defining how constituents can connectto each other, based on the values of their features.Since features can contain both syntactic and semantic in-formation, the analyzer can reject some grammatically in-correct sentences such as: I have much apples, You has mycar, or even some semantically incorrect sentences: Thetechnology is very military1.4.2 Semantic Role AssignmentIn the process of semantic role assignment, we first start byidentifying all possible frames, according to the target word.Next, a matching algorithm is used to find the most likelymatch among all rules derived for these frames, to identifythe correct frame (if several are possible), and assign seman-tic roles.In a sentence describing an interaction, we usually selectthe verb or predicative adjective as the target word, whichtriggers the sentence level frame.
A noun can also play therole of target word, but only within the scope of the nounphrase it belongs to, and it can be used to assign semanticroles only to its modifiers.The matching algorithm relies on a scoring function toevaluate the similarity between two sequences of syntacticfeatures.
The matching starts from left to right.
Wheneveran exact match is found, the score will be increased by 1.It should be noted that the search sequence is uni-directionalwhich means that once you find a match, you can go ahead tocheck features to the right, but you cannot go back to check1Since military is not a descriptive adjective, it cannot be con-nected to the degree modifier very.rules you have already checked.
This guarantees that syntac-tic features are matched in the right order, and the order ofsequence in the rule is maintained.
Since the frame of a tar-get word may have multiple possible syntactic realizations,which are exemplified by different sentences in the corpus,we try to match the syntactic features in the intermediate for-mat with all the rules available for the target word, and com-pare their matching scores.
The rule with the highest scoreis selected, and used for semantic role assignment.
Throughthis scoring scheme, the matching algorithm tries to maxi-mize the number of syntactic realizations for semantic rolesdefined in FrameNet rules.Notice that the semantic role assignment is performed re-cursively, until all roles within frames triggered by all targetwords are assigned.4.2.1 Walk-Through ExampleAssume the following two rules, derived from FrameNet forthe target word come:1:[[ext,np,before,active,theme],[obj,np,after,active,goal],[comp,pp,after,active,by,mode_of_transportation]]2:[[ext,np,before,active,theme],[obj,np,after,active,goal],[comp,pp,after,active,from,source]]And the sentences:A: I come here by train.B: I come here from home.The syntactic features identified by the syntactic analyzer forthese two sentences are:A?
:[[ext,np,before,active], [obj,np,after,active],$[$comp,pp,after,active,by]]B?
:[[ext,np,before,active], [obj,np,after,active],$[$comp,pp,after,active,from]]Using the matching/scoring algorithm, the score for match-ing A?
to rule 1 is determined as 3, and to rule 2 as 2.Hence, the matching algorithm selects rule 1, and the se-mantic role for train is mode of transportation.
Similarly,when we match B?
to rule 1, we obtain a score of 2, and alarger score of 3 for matching with rule 2.
Therefore, for thesecond case, the role assigned to home is source.4.3 Applying Default RulesIn a sentence, semantic roles are played by the subject, ob-jects, and the prepositional phrases attached to the inter-action described by the sentence.
However, FrameNet de-fines roles only for some of these elements, and thereforethe meaning of some sentence constituents cannot be deter-mined using the rules extracted from FrameNet.
In order tohandle these constituents, and allow for a complete seman-tic interpretation of the sentence, we have defined a set ofdefault rules that are applied as a last step in the process ofsemantic parsing.
For example, FrameNet defines a role forthe prepositional phrase on him in ?I depend on him?, but itdoes not define a role for the phrase on the street in ?I walkon the street?.
To handle the interpretation of this phrase,we apply the default rule that ?on something?
modifies thelocation attribute of an interaction.We have defined about 100 such default rules, which areassigned in the last step of the semantic parsing process, ifno other rule could be applied in previous steps.
After thisstep, the semantic structure of the sentence is produced.5 Parser Output and EvaluationThe semantic parser is demonstrated in this conference,which is perhaps the best evaluation we can offer.
Weillustrate here the output of the semantic parser on a naturallanguage sentence, and show the corresponding semanticstructure and tree.
For example, for the sentence I like toeat Mexican food because it is spicy, the semantic parserproduces the following encoding of sentence type, frames,semantic constituents and roles, and various attributes andmodifiers:T = assertionP =[[experiencer, [[entity, [i], reference(first)],[modification(attribute), quantity(single)]]],[interaction(experiencer\_subj),[love]],[modification(attribute), time(present)],[content, [[interaction(ingestion), [eat]],[ingestibles, [entity, [food]][[modification(restriction), [mexican]],]]]],[reason, [[agent, [[entity, [it], reference(third)],[modification(attribute), quantity(single)]]],[description,[modification(attribute), time(present)]],[modification(attribute), taste\_property(spicy)]]]]The corresponding semantic tree is shown in Figure 1.ingestion ), [eat]interaction(I love to eat Mexican food, because it is spicy.
{[I], reference(first)}S?
[assertion]interaction( experiencer_subj ), [love]{[it], reference(third)}time(present)quantity(single) {food}{mexican}taste_property(spicy)ingestiblesexperiencercontent reasonam amsmamFigure 1: Semantic parse tree (am = attributive modifier, rm =referential modifier, sm = restrictive modifier)We have conducted evaluations of the semantic role as-signment algorithm on 350 sentences randomly selectedfrom FrameNet.
The test sentences were removed fromthe FrameNet corpus, and the rules-learning procedure de-scribed earlier in the paper was invoked on this reduced cor-pus.
All test sentences were then semantically parsed, andfull semantic annotations were produced for each sentence.Notice that the evaluation is conducted only for semanticrole assignment ?
since this is the only information avail-able in FrameNet.
The other semantic annotations producedby the parser (e.g.
attribute, gender, countability) are notevaluated at this point, since there are no hand-validated an-notations of this kind available in current resources.Both frames and frame elements are automatically identi-fied by the parser.
Out of all the elements correctly iden-tified, we found that 74.5% were assigned with the cor-rect role (this is therefore the accuracy of role assignment),which compares favorably with previous results reported inthe literature for this task.
Notice also that since this is arule-based approach, the parser does not need large amountsof annotated data, but it works well the same for words forwhich only one or two sentences are annotated.6 Related WorkAll previous work in semantic parsing has exclusively fo-cused on labeling semantic roles, rather than analyzing thefull structure of sentence semantics, and is usually based onstatistical models - e.g.
(Gildea and Jurafsky, 2000), (Fleis-chman et al, 2003).
To our knowledge, there was no pre-vious attempt on performing semantic annotations using al-ternative rule-based algorithms.
However, a rule-based ap-proach is closer to the way humans interpret the semanticstructure of a sentence.
Moreover, as mentioned earlier, theFrameNet data is not meant to be ?statistically representa-tive?, but rather illustrative for various language constructs,and therefore a rule-based approach is more suitable for thislexical resource.7 ConclusionsWe described a rule-based approach to open text seman-tic parsing.
The semantic parser has the capability to an-alyze the semantic structure of a sentence, and show howthe meaning of the entire sentence is composed of smallersemantic units, linked by various semantic relations.
Theparsing process relies on rules derived from a frame dataset(FrameNet) and a semantic network (WordNet).
We believethat the semantic parser will prove useful for a range oflanguage processing applications that require knowledge oftext meaning, including word sense disambiguation, infor-mation extraction, question answering, machine translation,and others.ReferencesM.
Fleischman, N. Kwon, and E. Hovy.
2003.
Maximum en-tropy models for FrameNet classification.
In Proceedings of2003 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural LanguageProcessing EMNLP-2003, Sapporo, Japan.D.
Gildea and D. Jurafsky.
2000.
Automatic labeling of semanticroles.
In Proceedings of the 38th Annual Conference of the As-sociation for Computational Linguistics (ACL-00), pages 512?520, Hong Kong, October.C.
Johnson, C. Fillmore, M. Petruck, C. Baker, M. Ellsworth,J.
Ruppenhofer, and E. Wood.
2002.
FrameNet: Theory andPractice.
http://www.icsi.berkeley.edu/ framenet.G.
Miller.
1995.
Wordnet: A lexical database.
Communication ofthe ACM, 38(11):39?41.
