MiTAP for SARS DetectionLaurie E. Damianos, Samuel Bayer,Michael A. Chisholm, John Henderson,Lynette Hirschman, William Morgan,Marc Ubaldino, Guido ZarrellaThe MITRE Corporation202 Burlington RoadBedford, MA 01730{laurie, sam, chisholm,jhndrsn, lynette, wmorgan,ubaldino,jzarrella}@mitre.orgJames M. Wilson, V, MD andMarat G. PolyakDivision of Integrated BiodefenseISIS Center, Georgetown University2115 Wisconsin Avenue Suite 603Washington, DC 20007{wilson, mgp5}@isis.imac.georgetown.eduAbstractThe MiTAP prototype for SARS detectionuses human language technology for detect-ing, monitoring, and analyzing potential indi-cators of infectious disease outbreaks andreasoning for issuing warnings and alerts.
Mi-TAP focuses on providing timely, multi-lingual information access to analysts, domainexperts, and decision-makers worldwide.
Datasources are captured, filtered, translated,summarized, and categorized by content.Critical information is automatically extractedand tagged to facilitate browsing, searching,and scanning, and to provide key terms at aglance.
The processed articles are made avail-able through an easy-to-use news server andcross-language information retrieval systemfor access and analysis anywhere, any time.Specialized newsgroups and customizable fil-ters or searches on incoming stories allow us-ers to create their own view into the datawhile a variety of tools summarize, indicatetrends, and provide alerts to potentially rele-vant spikes of activity.12BackgroundPotentially catastrophic biological events that threatenUS national security are steadily increasing in fre-quency.
These events pose immediate danger to ani-mals, plants, and humans.
Current disease surveillancesystems are inadequate for detecting indicators earlyenough to ensure the rapid response needed to combatthese biological events and corresponding public reac-tion.
Recent examples of outbreaks include both theHIV/AIDS and foot and mouth pandemics, the spread ofWest Nile virus to and across the US, the escape of RiftValley Fever from Africa, SARS, and the translocationof both mad cow disease (BSE) and monkey pox to theUnited States.Biological surveillance systems in the United Statesrely most heavily on human medical data for signs ofepidemic activity.
These systems span multiple organi-zations and agencies, are often not integrated, and haveno alerting capability.
As a result, responders have aninsufficient amount of lead time to prepare for biologi-cal events or catastrophes.Indications and Warnings (I&Ws) provide the poten-tial for early alert of impending biological events, per-haps weeks to months in advance.
Sources of I&Wsinclude transportation data, telecommunication traffic,economic indices, Internet news, RSS feeds (RSS) in-cluding weblogs, commerce, agricultural surveillance,weather, and other environmental data.
Retrospectiveanalyses of major infectious disease outbreaks (e.g.,West Nile Virus and SARS) show that I&Ws were pre-sent weeks to months in advance, but these indicatorswere missed because data sources were difficult to ob-tain and hard to integrate.
As a result, the available in-formation was not utilized for appropriate national andinternational response.
This illuminates a critical need inbiodefense for an integrated system linking I&Ws forbiological events from multiple and disparate sourceswith the response community.IntroductionMiTAP (Damianos et al 2002) was originally devel-oped by the MITRE Corporation under the DefenseAdvanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA)Translingual Information Detection Extraction andSummarization (TIDES) program.
TIDES aims to revo-lutionize the way that information is obtained from hu-man language by enabling people to find and interpretrelevant information quickly and effectively, regardlessof language or medium.
MiTAP was initially created fortracking and monitoring infectious disease outbreaksand other biological threats as part of a DARPA Inte-grated Feasibility Experiment in biosecurity to explorethe integration of synergistic TIDES language process-ing technologies applied to a real world domain.
Thesystem has since been expanded to other domains suchas weapons of mass destruction, satellite monitoring,and suspect terrorist activity.
In addition, researchersand analysts are examining hundreds of MiTAP datasources for differing perspectives on conflict and hu-manitarian relief efforts.Our newest MiTAP prototype explores the integra-tion of outputs from operational data mining (anomalydetection), human language technology (informationextraction, temporal tagging, machine translation, cross-language information retrieval), and visualization toolsto detect SARS-specific I&Ws in Asia, with relevanceto pathogen translocation to the United States.
Usingfeeds from English and Chinese language newswire,weblogs, and other Internet data, the system translatesChinese text data and tracks keyword combinationsthought to represent I&Ws specific to SARS outbreaksin China.
Analysts can use cross-language informationretrieval for retrospective analysis and improving theI&W model, save searches to use as filters on incomingdata, view trends, and visualize the data along a time-line.
Figure 1 shows an overview of the prototype.Warnings generated by this MiTAP prototype are in-tended to complement traditional biosurveillance andcommunications already in use by the international pub-lic health community.
This system represents an expan-sion of current US surveillance capabilities to detectbiological agents of catastrophic potential.Figure 1 Overview of the MiTAP prototype for SARS detection.3 Component TechnologiesThe MiTAP prototype relies extensively on humanlanguage technology and expert system reasoning.Below, MiTAP capabilities are described brieflyalong with their contributing componenttechnologies.3.13.23.33.43.5Information ProcessingAfter Internet news sources are captured andnormalized, they are passed through a zoner usinghuman-generated rules to identify source, date, andother information such as headline, or title, andcontent.
The Alembic natural language analyzer (Ab-erdeen et al 1995; Vilain and Day 1996) processesthe zoned messages to identify paragraph, sentence,and word boundaries as well as part-of-speech tags.The messages then pass through the Alembic namedentity recognizer for identification and tagging ofperson, organization, location, and disease names.Finally, the article is processed by the TempExnormalizing time expression tagger (Mani and Wil-son 2000).For Chinese and other non-English sources, theCyberTrans machine translation system (Miller et al2001) is used to translate articles automatically intoEnglish.
CyberTrans wraps commercial and researchtranslation engines to produce a common set ofinterfaces; the current prototype makes use of theSYSTRAN Chinese-English system.RSS feeds can provide a high volume textual ge-stalt.
Weblogs, in particular, are a good source oftimely text, some of which is topical and all of whichis based on personal observations and experiences.Aggregate measurements on these feeds can provideindications of public health-related phenom-ena.
Consider the relative rates of words and phrasessuch as "stay home from" or "pneumonia.?
Geotem-poral location of non-seasonal spikes in relative rankof these strings can establish suspicion for furtherinvestigation by I&W experts.BrowsingEnglish language data and pairs of foreign languagedocuments and their translated versions are madeavailable on a news server (INN 2001) for browsing.The system categorizes and bins articles intonewsgroups based on their content.
To do this, thesystem relies on a combination of the informationextraction results as well as human-generated rulesfor pattern matching.
Newsgroups are created toprovide multiple perspectives on the data; analystscan subscribe to specific disease trackingnewsgroups, regional newsgroups, specific datasource newsgroups, or to customized topic trackingnewsgroups that may be based on several relatedsubjects.Tagged entities in each article are color-coded toenable rapid scanning of information and easy identi-fication of key names.
The five most frequently men-tioned locations in each article as well as the top fivepeople are presented as a list for quick reference.Information RetrievalTo supplement access to the articles on the newsserver and to allow for retrospective analysis, articlesare indexed using the Lucene information retrievalsystem (The Jakarta Project 2001) for Englishlanguage documents and using PSE (Darwish 2002)for foreign language documents.
Web links aremaintained between foreign language documents andtheir translated versions to allow for more accuratehuman translations of selected documents.Analysts can perform full text, source-specificqueries over the entire set of archived documents andview the retrieved results as a relevance-ranked list oras a plot across a timeline.
A cross-language informa-tion retrieval interface allows users to search in Eng-lish across the Chinese language sources.Users can also save specific search constraints tobe used as filters on incoming data.
These savedsearches provide a simple analytic capability as wellas an alerting feature.
(See below.
)AnalysisTo assist analysts in identifying relevant and relatedarticles, we have integrated multi-document summa-rization and watch lists.
Columbia University?sNewsblaster (McKeown et al 2002) automaticallydetects daily topics, clusters MiTAP articles aroundthose topics, and generates multi-document summari-zations which are made available on the news server.Multiple technologies (e.g., coreference, informationextraction) from Alias I, Inc. (Baldwin et al 2002)produces comprehensive views on specific namedentities (i.e., people or disease) across MiTAP docu-ments.
These views are summarized through rankedlists, highlighting important topics of the day andactivities which might indicate disease outbreak.Finely-tuned searches can be saved and applied asfilters or topic tracking mechanisms.
These savedsearches are automatically updated at specific inter-vals and can be aggregated and displayed visually asbar graphs to reveal spikes of activity that otherwisemight go undetected.AlertingThe MiTAP prototype has two separate alerting ca-pabilities: saved searches and an integrated expertsystem.
The saved search functionality allows ana-lysts to set thresholds for alerting purposes.
For ex-ample, MiTAP can send email when any new articlearrives, when a specified maximum number of arti-cles arrives, or when the daily number of new articlesincreases by some percentage of the total or movingaverage.The Human Language Indication Detector(HLID) performs data fusion on a number of dispa-rate sources, compressing a large volume of informa-tion into a smaller but more significant set of alerts.HLID monitors a variety of sources including MiTAParticles, information events in RSS feeds, and otherdynamically updated information on the World WideWeb.
HLID analyzes events from these sources inreal time and generates an estimate of significancefor each, complete with an audit trail of supportingand negating evidence.
This allows an analyst to di-rect a search for indicators towards interesting datawhile reducing the time spent investigating falsealarms and insignificant events.HLID is composed of four major components.The first is an event collector, which monitors a datasource and triggers action when an event is observed.These events are sent to the rule based reasoning en-gine, an expert system shell (JESS 2004) with handauthored rules.
The engine performs vetting and ini-tial investigation of each event by identifying corre-lated events, corroborating or invalidating evidence,and references to supporting information.
The enginecan also supplement its knowledge base by perform-ing a directed search via the query management sys-tem, which allows retrieval of information from awide variety of sources including databases and webpages.
Lastly, the alerting mechanism disseminatesthe conclusions reached by the system and providesan interface that allows an analyst to launch a deepersearch for indicators and warnings.45AcknowledgmentsThis work has been funded, in part, by the DefenseAdvanced Research Projects Agency TranslingualInformation Detection Extraction and Summarizationprogram under contract numbers DAAB07-01-C-C201 and W15P7T-04-C-D001, the Office of theSecretary of Defense in support of the Coalition Pro-visional Authority in Baghdad, and a MITRE SpecialInitiative for Rapid Integration of Novel Indicationsand Warnings for SARS.ReferencesAberdeen, J., Burger, J., Day, D., Hirschman, L.,Robinson, P., and Vilain, M. 1995.
MITRE: De-scription of the Alembic System as Used forMUC-6.
In Proceedings of the Sixth Message Un-derstanding Conference (MUC-6).Baldwin, B,, Moore, M., Ross, A., Shah, D.  2002.Trinity Information Access System.
Proceedings ofHuman Lanuage Technology Conference, SanDiego, CA.Damianos, L., Ponte, J., Wohlever, S., Reeder, F.,Day, D., Wilson, G., Hirschman, L. 2002.
MiTAP,Text and Audio Processing for Bio-Security: ACase Study In Proceedings of IAAI-2002: TheFourteenth Innovative Applications of ArtificialIntelligence Conference, Edmonton, Alberta, Can-ada.Darwish, K. PSE: A Small Search Engine written inPerl 2002http://tides.umiacs.umd.edu/software.htmlINN: InterNetNews, Internet Software Consortium2001, http://www.isc.org/products/INN.The Jakarta Project, 2001http://jakarta.apache.org/lucene/docs/index.html.JESS: the Rule Engine for the Java?
Platform 2004http://herzberg.ca.sandia.gov/jess/Mani, I. and Wilson, G. 2000.
Robust TemporalProcessing of News.
In Proceedings of the 38thAnnual Meeting of the Association for Computa-tional Linguistics (ACL'2000), 69-76.McKeown, K., Barzilay, R., Evan, D., Hatzivassi-loglou, V., Klavans, J., Sable, C., Schiffman, B.,Sigelman, S. 2002.
Tracking and SummarizingNews on a Daily Basis with Columbia's Newsblas-ter.
In Proceedings of HLT 2002: Human Lan-guage Technology Conference.Miller, K., Reeder, F., Hirschman, L., Palmer, D.2001.
Multilingual Processing for OperationalUsers, NATO Workshop on Multilingual Process-ing at EUROSPEECH.RSS RDF Site Summary http://purl.org/rss/1.0/specVilain, M. and Day, D. 1996.
Finite-state phraseparsing by rule sequences.
In Proceedings of the1996 International Conference on ComputationalLinguistics (COLING-96), Copenhagen, Denmark.
