Columbia Newsblaster: Multilingual News Summarization on the WebDavid Kirk Evans Judith L. KlavansDepartment of Computer ScienceColumbia University, NY, NY 10027{devans, klavans, kathy}@cs.columbia.eduKathleen R. McKeownAbstractWe present the new multilingual version ofthe Columbia Newsblaster news summariza-tion system.
The system addresses the problemof user access to browsing news from multiplelanguages from multiple sites on the internet.The system automatically collects, organizes,and summarizes news in multiple source lan-guages, allowing the user to browse news top-ics with English summaries, and compare per-spectives from different countries on the topics.1 IntroductionThe Columbia Newsblaster1 system has been online andproviding summaries of topically clustered news dailysince late 2001 (McKeown et al, 2002).
The goal ofthe system is to aid daily news browsing by providingan automatic, user-friendly access to important news top-ics, along with summaries and links to the original arti-cles for further information.
The system has six majorphases: crawling, article extraction, clustering, sum-marization, classification, and web page generation.The focus of this paper is to present the entire mul-tilingual Columbia Newsblaster system as a platformfor multilingual multi-document summarization exper-iments.
The phases in the multilingual version ofColumbia Newsblaster have been modified to take lan-guage and character encoding into account, and a newphase, translation, has been added.
Figure 1 depicts themultilingual Columbia Newsblaster architecture.
We willdescribe the system, in particular a method using machinelearning to extract article text from web pages that is ap-plicable to different languages, and a baseline approachto multilingual multi-document summarization.1.1 Related ResearchPrevious work in multilingual document summarization,such as the SUMMARIST system (Hovy and Lin, 1999)1http://newsblaster.cs.columbia.edu/Figure 1: Architecture of the multilingual ColumbiaNewsblaster system.extracts sentences from documents in a variety of lan-guages, and translates the resulting summary.
This sys-tem has been applied to Information Retrieval in theMuST System (Lin, 1999) which uses query translationto allow a user to search for documents in a variety of lan-guages, summarize the documents using SUMMARIST,and translate the summary.
The Keizei system (Ogden etal., 1999) uses query translation to allow users to searchJapanese and Korean documents in English, and displaysquery-specific summaries focusing on passages contain-ing query terms.
Our work differs in the document clus-tering component ?
we cluster news to provide emergenttopic structure from the data, instead of using an informa-tion retrieval model.
This is useful in analysis, monitor-ing, and browsing settings, where a user does not have ana priori topic in mind.
Our summarization strategy alsodiffers from the approach taken by MuST in that we focusour effort on the summarization system, but only target asingle language, shifting the majority of the multilingualknowledge burden to specialized machine translation sys-tems.
The Keizei system has the advantage of being ableto generate query-specific summaries.Chen and Lin (Chen and Lin, 2000) describe a sys-tem that combines multiple monolingual news clusteringcomponents, a multilingual news clustering component,and a news summarization component.
Their systemclusters news in each language into topics, then the mul-tilingual clustering component relates the clusters thatare similar across languages.
A summary is generatedby linking sentences that are similar from the two lan-guages.
The system has been implemented for Chineseand English, and an evaluation over six topics is pre-sented.
Our clustering strategy differs here, as we trans-late documents before clustering, and cluster documentsfrom all languages at the same time.
This makes it easyto add support for additional languages by incorporating anew translation system for the language; no other changesneed to be made.
Our summarization model also providessummaries for documents from each language, allowingcomparisons between them.2 Extracting article data2.1 Extracting article textTo move Columbia Newsblaster into a multilingual ca-pable environment, we must be able to extract the ?ar-ticle text?
from web pages in multiple languages.
Thearticle text is the portion of a web page that contains theactual news content of the page, as opposed to site navi-gation links, ads, layout information, etc.
Our previousapproach to extracting article text in Columbia News-blaster used regular expressions that were hand-tailoredto specific web sites.
Adapting this approach to new websites is difficult, and it is also difficult to adapt to for-eign languages sites.
We solved this problem by incor-porating a new article extraction module using machinelearning techniques.
The new article extraction moduleparses HTML into blocks of text based on HTML markupand computes a set of 34 features based on simple sur-face characteristics of the text.
We use features such asthe percentage of text that is punctuation, the numberof HTML links in the block, the percentage of questionmarks, the number of characters in the text block, and soon.
Since the features are relatively language independentthey can be computed for and applied to any language.Training data for the system is generated using a GUIthat allows a human to annotate text candidates with oneof fives labels: ?ArticleText?, ?Title?, ?Caption?, ?Im-age?, or ?Other?.
The ?ArticleText?
label is associatedwith the actual text of the article which we wish to ex-tract.
At the same time, we try to determine documenttitles, image caption text, and image blocks in the sameframework.
?Other?
is a catch-all category for all othertext blocks, such as links to related articles, navigationlinks, ads, and so on.
The training data is used with theLanguage Training set Precision RecallEnglish 353 89.10% 90.70%Russian 112 90.59% 95.06%Russian English Rules 37.66% 73.05%Japanese 67 89.66% 100.00%Japanese English Rules 100.00% 20.00%Table 1: Article extractor performance for detecting arti-cle text in three languages.machine learning program Ripper (Cohen, 1996) to in-duce a hypothesis for categorizing text candidates accord-ing to the features.
This approach has been trained onweb pages from sites in English, Russian, and Japaneseas shown in Table 1, but has been used with sites in En-glish, Russian, Japanese, Chinese, French, Spanish, Ger-man, Italian, Portuguese, and Korean.The English training set was composed of 353 arti-cles, collected from 19 web sites.
Using 10-fold cross-validation, the induced hypothesis classify into the articletext category with a precision of 89.1% and a recall of90.7%.
Performance over Russian data was similar, witha precision of 90.59% and recall of 95.06%.
We evalu-ated the English hypothesis against the Russian data toobserve whether the languages behave differently.
As ex-pected, the English hypothesis resulted in poor perfor-mance over the Russian data, and we saw comparableresults for Japanese.
The same English hypothesis per-forms adequately on other English sites not in the train-ing set, so the differences between languages seem to besignificant.2.2 Title and date extractionThe article extraction component also determines a titlefor each document, and attempts to locate a publishingdate for the articles.
Title identification is important sincein a cluster, sometimes with as many as 60 articles, theonly information the user sees are the titles for the arti-cles; if our system chooses poor titles, they will have adifficult time discriminating between the articles.
If thearticle extraction component finds a title it is used.
Un-fortunately, this process is not always successful, so wehave a variety of fall-back methods, including taking thetitle from the HTML TITLE tag, using heuristics to de-tect the title from the first text block, and using a portionof the first sentence.
These approaches led to many un-informative titles extracted from the non-English sites,since they were developed for English news.
We imple-mented a system to identify titles that are clearly non-descriptive, such as ?Stock Market News?, that wouldapply to non-English text as well.
We record the titlesseen and rejected over time and use the list to reject ti-tles with high frequency.
A title with high frequency isassumed to be not descriptive enough to give a clear ideaof the content of an article in a cluster of similar articles.To correctly extract dates for articles, we use heuristicsto identify sequences of possible dates, weigh them, andchoose the most likely date as the publication date.
Reg-ular expressions for Japanese date extraction were addedto the system.3 Multilingual ClusteringThe document clustering system that we use (Hatzivas-siloglou et al, 2000) has been trained on, and extensivelytested with English.
While it can cluster documents inother languages, our goal is to generate clusters with doc-uments from multiple languages, so a baseline approachis to translate all non-English documents into English,and then cluster the translated documents.
We take thisapproach, and further experimented with using simpleand fast techniques for glossing the input articles for clus-tering.
We developed simple dictionary lookup glossingsystems for Japanese and Russian.
Our experimentationshowed that full translation using Systran outperformedour glossing-based techniques, so the glossing techniquesare not used in the current system.4 Multilingual Summarization BaselineOur baseline approach to multilingual multi-documentsummarization is to apply our English-based summa-rization system, the Columbia Summarizer (McKeownet al, 2001), to document clusters containing machine-translated versions of non-English documents.
TheColumbia Summarizer routes to one of two multi-document summarization systems based on the similar-ity of the documents in the cluster.
If the documentsare highly similar, the Multigen summarization system(McKeown et al, 1999) is used.
Multigen clusters sen-tences based on similarity, and then parses and fuses in-formation from similar sentences to form a summary.The second summarization system used is DEMS, theDissimilarity Engine for Multi-document Summarization(Schiffman et al, 2002), which uses a sentence extractionapproach to summarization.
The resulting summary isthen run through a named entity recovery tool (Nenkovaand McKeown, 2003), which repairs named entity refer-ences in the summary by making the first reference de-scriptive, and shortening subsequent reference mentionsin the summary.
Using an unmodified version of DEMS,summaries might contain sentences from translated doc-uments which are not grammatically correct.
The DEMSsummarization system was modified to prefer choosinga sentence from an English article if there are sentencesthat express similar content in multiple languages.
Bysetting different weight penalties we can take the qualityof the translation system for a given language pair intoFigure 2: A screen shot comparing a summary from En-glish documents to a summary from German documents.account.4.1 Similarity-based SummarizationAs part of our multilingual summarization work, weare investigating approaches to summarization that usesentence-level similarity computation across languages tocluster sentences by similarity, and then generate a sum-mary sentence using translated portions of the relevantsentences.
The multilingual version of Columbia News-blaster provides us with a platform to frame future ex-periments for this summarization technique.
We are in-vestigating translation at different levels - sentence level,clause level, and phrase level.
Our initial similarity-basedsummarization system works at the sentence level.
Start-ing with machine-translated sentences, we compute theirsimilarity to English sentences that have been simpli-fied(Siddharthan, 2002).
Foreign-language sentences thathave a high enough similarity to English text are replaced(or augmented with) the similar English sentence.This first system using full machine translation overthe sentences and English similarity detection will be ex-tended using simple features for multilingual similaritydetection in SimFinder MultiLingual (SimFinderML), amultilingual version of SimFinder (Hatzivassiloglou etal., 2001).
We also plan an experiment evaluating the use-fulness of noun phrase detection and noun phrase variantdetection as a primitive for multilingual similarity detec-tion, using tools such as Christian Jacquemin?s FASTR(Jacquemin, 1994; Jacquemin, 1999).4.2 Summary presentationMultilingual Newsblaster presents multiple views of acluster of documents to the user, broken down by lan-guage and by country.
Summaries are generated for theentire cluster, as well as sub-sets of the articles based onthe country of origin and language of the original arti-cles.
Users are first presented with a summary of the en-tire cluster using all documents, and then have the abilityto focus on countries or languages of their choosing.
Wealso allow the user to view two summaries side-by-side sothey can easily compare differences between summariesfrom different countries.
For example, figure 4.2 shows asummary of articles about talks between America, Japan,and Korea over nuclear arms, comparing the summariesfrom articles in English and German.5 EvaluationEvaluation of multi-document summarization is a dif-ficult task; the Document Understanding Conference(DUC)2 is designed as an evaluation for multi-documentsummarization systems.
We participated in the DUC2004 conference submitting the results of the summariza-tion system used in Newsblaster, as well as an in-progresssystem described in Section 4.1 for multilingual clustersummarization.
The results of the DUC evaluation willprovide us with valuable feedback on the multi-documentmulti-lingual summarization components in Newsblaster.6 ConclusionsIn this paper we have described a multilingual versionof Columbia Newsblaster, a system that runs daily offer-ing users an accessible interface to online news brows-ing.
The multilingual version of the system incorporatestwo varieties of machine translation, one for clustering,and one for translation of documents for summarization.Existing summarization methods have been applied totranslated text, with plans for an evaluation of the currentmethod, and incorporation of summarization techniquesspecific to translated documents.
The system presents aplatform for further multilingual summarization experi-ments and user-oriented studies.ReferencesHsin-Hsi Chen and Chuan-Jie Lin.
2000.
A multilin-gual news summarizer.
In Proceedings of the 18th In-ternational Conference on Computational Linguistics,pages 159?165.William W. Cohen.
1996.
Learning trees and rules withset-valued features.
In AAAI/IAAI, Vol.
1, pages 709?716.Vasileois Hatzivassiloglou, Luis Gravano, and AnkineeduMaganti.
2000.
An investigation of linguistic featuresand clustering algorithms for topical document clus-tering.
In Proceedings of the 23rd ACM SIGIR Con-ference on Research and Development in InformationRetrieval.2http://duc.nist.gov/Vasileios Hatzivassiloglou, Judith L. Klavans, MelissaHolcombe, Regina Barzilay, Min-Yen Kan, and KathyMcKeown.
2001.
Simfinder: A flexible clustering toolfor summarization.
In Proceedings of the North Amer-ican Association for Computational Linguistics Auto-matic Summarization Workshop.E.H.
Hovy and Chin-Yew Lin.
1999.
Automated textsummarization in summarist.
In I. Mani and M. May-bury, editors, Advances in Automated Text Summariza-tion, chapter 8.
MIT Press.Christian Jacquemin.
1994.
Fastr: a unification-basedfront-end to automatic indexing.
In In Proceedings,Intelligent Multimedia Information Retrieval Systemsand Management (RIAO?94), pages p. 34?47.Christian Jacquemin.
1999.
Syntagmatic and paradig-matic representations of term variation.
In Proceed-ings of the 37th Annual Meeting of the Association forComputational Linguistics (ACL?99), pages 341?348.Chin-Yew Lin.
1999.
Machine translation for informa-tion access across the language barrier: the must sys-tem.
In Machine Translation Summit VII, September.Kathleen McKeown, Judith Klavans, Vasileios Hatzivas-siloglou, Regina Barzilay, and Eleazar Eskin.
1999.Towards multidocument summarization by reformula-tion: Progress and prospects.
In AAAI, pages 453?460.Kathleen R. McKeown, Regina Barzilay, David KirkEvans, Vasileios Hatzivassiloglou, Min-Yen Kan,Barry Schiffman, and Simone Teufel.
2001.
Columbiamulti-document summarization: Approach and evalu-ation.
In Proceedings of the Document UnderstandingConference.Kathleen R. McKeown, Regina Barzilay, David KirkEvans, Vasileios Hatzivassiloglou, Judith L. Klavans,Ani Nenkova, Carl Sable, Barry Schiffman, and SergeySigelman.
2002.
Tracking and summarizing news ona daily basis with columbia?s newsblaster.
In Proceed-ings of the Human Language Technology Conference.Ani Nenkova and Kathy McKeown.
2003.
References tonamed entities: A corpus study.
In Short Paper Pro-ceedings of NAACL-HLT.William Ogden, James Cowie, Mark Davis, Eugene Lu-dovik, Hugo Molina-Salgado, and Hyopil Shin.
1999.Getting information from documents you cannot read:An interactive cross-language text retrieval and sum-marization system.
In SIGIR/DL Workshop on Mul-tilingual Information Discovery and Access (MIDAS),August.Barry Schiffman, Ani Nenkova, and Kathleen McKeown.2002.
Experiments in multidocument summarization.In Proceedings of the Human Language TechnologyConference, March.Advaith Siddharthan.
2002.
Resolving attachment andclause boundary ambiguities for simplifying relativeclause constructs.
In Proceedings of the Student Work-shop, 40th Meeting of the Association for Computa-tional Linguistics (ACL?02), pages 60?65, Philadel-phia, USA.
