Limited-Domain Speech-to-Speech Translationbetween English and PashtoKristin Precoda, Horacio Franco, Ascander Dost, Michael Frandsen, John Fry,Andreas Kathol, Colleen Richey, Susanne Riehemann, Dimitra Vergyri, Jing ZhengSRI International333 Ravenswood Ave.Menlo Park, CA 94025Christopher CulyFX Palo Alto Laboratory, Inc.3400 Hillview Ave., Building 4Palo Alto, CA 94304AbstractThis paper describes a prototype system fornear-real-time spontaneous, bidirectionaltranslation between spoken English andPashto, a language presenting manytechnological challenges because of its lack ofresources, including both data and expertknowledge.
Development of the prototype isongoing, and we propose to demonstrate afully functional version which shows the basiccapabilities, though not yet their final depthand breadth.1 IntroductionThis demonstration will present a prototype system forbidirectional speech-to-speech translation within alimited semantic domain, that of first encountersbetween a patient and a medical professional.
A majorgoal of the work is to explore techniques that areappropriate for languages that are not of greatcommercial interest and that consequently are lacking indata and resources of many kinds.
The system has beendeveloped for American English and Pashto, one of themajor languages of Afghanistan, which presents avariety of challenges for both data-intensive andknowledge-based approaches.It should be noted that the system must be viewed asone component in a real-time transaction between twocooperating humans.
The ultimate goal of those humansis to exchange information by whatever means iseffective: not, necessarily, to rely exclusively on thesystem?s output, but to use it in combination with other,non-speech modalities of conveying meaning and withordinary world knowledge.The final system is intended to run on a handhelddevice, such as a PDA, with its attendant memory andspeed limitations and restriction to integer-onlycomputation.
Most components of the demonstrationsystem run in a PocketPC emulation environment on aWindows laptop, with a few in the full Windowsenvironment.
All aspects of the prototype system areundergoing active development.2 Overall ArchitectureA simple description of the architecture is as follows.The system is controlled by the English speaker, who isexpected to have greater technological familiarity andwho has the benefit of visual feedback on the systemperformance.
Spoken input, in either English or Pashto,is recognized by SRI?s small-footprint DynaSpeak?recognizer, and an ordered list of hypotheses isproduced.
The most likely hypothesis is input to SRI'sGemini natural language parser/generator (Dowding etal.
1993), which attempts to parse the speechrecognition output.
Handling of possible errors orfailures will be discussed in Section 3.When a successful parse is obtained, Gemini createsa quasi-logical form representing the meaning of thesentence.
In general, multiple quasi-logical forms maybe created, reflecting differing interpretations of theinput sentence.
These forms, which are domainindependent and serve here as an interlingua, can beordered by heuristically assigning preferences ordispreferences to the parsing rules applied to createthem.
Gemini uses a grammar for the target language togenerate a translation from the most-preferredinterpretation possible, and outputs a textualrepresentation of the translation.Theta, a small-footprint concatenative synthesizerfrom Cepstral LLC (Cepstral LLC 2004), then producessynthetic spoken output in the target language from thetextual representation generated by Gemini.
The Pashtovoice was created specifically for this project.An English and a Pashto version of each componentare called by a single application which includes agraphical user interface.
A screen shot of the interfaceis shown in Figure 1.Figure 1.
Screen shot of prototype systeminterface.3 Redundancy and Handling InfelicitiesAs in any complex system, performance can differ fromthe ideal in a number of ways, and it is important for thesystem to provide alternative ways to support successfulcommunication.
Some kinds of subideal performanceand recovery approaches are described here.The most likely hypothesis output by the speechrecognizer may not be exactly what was spoken.
Whenthe input speech is English, the English speaker can seewhether the most likely hypothesis (shown in the"Input" box in Figure 1) is correct or approximatelycorrect.
If the English speaker judges the hypothesis tonot be close enough to the intended text, s/he may eitherrepeat the utterance or click on the "Guesses?"
buttonto see an ordered list of the best hypotheses.
A samplelist is shown in Figure 2.
If the correct text is on this list,the user may select it to submit for translation.
Whenthe input speech is in Pashto, this functionality is lessuseful, as the Pashto speaker is not assumed to be ableto read, even if the hypotheses were displayed in Pashtoscript.Figure 2.
Sample ordered list of recognizerhypotheses.Once a recognition hypothesis has been submittedfor translation, several possible problems can arise.Pashto is a moderately inflected, split-ergative Indo-European language, and for Pashto in particular,recognition errors may lead to apparent lack of syntacticagreement between elements of the sentence whichshould (and did in fact) agree.
As Gemini tries togenerate a full parse of the input, it has the option ofusing parse rules that relax agreement requirements.These rules are dispreferred and a parse built upon themmay be kept only if a full, grammatically correct parsecannot be completed.
Another possible problem is thatunknown words, some grammatical constructions, andinput errors may render any full parse unachievable.
Inthis case, fallback strategies can be applied to translatepartial parses, fragments, or any known words.
Otherstrategies are currently in development.Another class of approaches for assistingcommunication allows the English speaker to quicklyperform certain actions or play high-frequency phrasesto the Pashto speaker.
If there is background noise ordistractions or the TTS quality is not high enough foreasy comprehension, pressing the "Replay" button willimmediately play back the last translation result.
"Askfor Rep" plays a prerecorded sentence asking the Pashtospeaker to repeat what s/he said.
Several other usefulphrases are available by clicking on the "Phrases?
"button and then selecting from the screen shown inFigure 3.Figure 3.
Prerecorded Pashto phrases which canbe played back with a single click.4 Sample InteractionThe table below shows an excerpt of a dialog betweenan English and a Pashto speaker, both new to thissystem, whose interaction was part of an informal trialrun by the MITRE Corporation in February 2004 for theDARPA CAST program.
The English speaker, a doctor,had just received eighteen minutes of training in how touse the system and had had no other exposure to it.
ThePashto speaker, playing the role of an injured patient,had received training in complaints consistent with aparticular injury scenario and had seen others use thesystem, but had not interacted with the system himself.Except as noted, the translations are understandable.Spoken input System resultI am a doctor, can I helpyou?
[failure to translatebecause two sentences]I am a doctor z@ ddAkttar y@mCan I help you?
AyA z@ d@ tA sarakomak kaw@lay S@mho, mehrabAni w@krra yes make [partialtranslation; full translationshould have been "yesplease do"]Where are you hurt?
[rerecorded after onemisrecognition] t@ chertakhugx yeghwagx aw ugxa [misrecognizedrepeatedly; unable to givemeaningful translation;should have been "ear andshoulder"]Can you breathe?
AyA t@ sA akhIst@laySena, mUSkel lar@m no I have the problemDo you have pain?
AyA t@ dard larezAyt of much [minormisrecognition; translationshould have been "much"]Do you take medications?
AyA t@ dawAuna akhle[incorrect plural form ofdawA, but understood byPashto speaker anyway]na noDo you want painmedication?AyA t@ d@ dard dawAghwArreho yesDo you have allergies?
AyA t@ hasAsiyatuna lareho yesWhat are your allergies?
stA hasAsiyat ts@ dayantibyutik [misrecognized butcorrectly understood bydoctor as "antibiotics"]5 ChallengesThree main challenges face this project.
First,commercially nonviable languages, such as Pashto,often offer very few linguistic resources (such aslinguistic descriptions, acoustic data, texts, languageprocessing tools).
The lack of resources makesdevelopment more difficult, and severely constrains theapproaches that are viable: approaches that rely on largecorpora cannot be used.
In addition, there is a shortageof literate speakers who are available to act asconsultants, and a scarcity of basic knowledge about thelanguage.
This impedes progress and renders difficultapproaches that rely on a large body of hand-craftedtranslation rules.
The challenge of having no singleperson who has a deep understanding of both thelanguage and the technology and who can serve as abridge between them is substantial, and causes moreiterative development than is ordinarily the case whenbilingual technologists are available, as newlydiscovered phenomena or new understanding causerevisions of previous work.A second major challenge is due to the nature of thedomain and the underlying concept of operations.
Realspeech occurs in noisy environments, has disfluencies,and is highly variable (e.g., phrasings, dialectdifferences).
In addition, the output of a speechrecognizer contains more and qualitatively differenterrors than typical text input to automatic translationsystems.
While the problems of real speech are notunique to this project, they are magnified by the factthat the non-English speakers will largely beunsophisticated users of technology, who will often beusing the system for the first and only time.
The systemmust work well from the very first utterance ?
therecannot be much of a learning curve.
This applies to thetranslation quality and to other aspects of the system,such as the synthetic speech, as speakers are not familiarwith synthesized Pashto speech.
These speakers are alsonot expected to be literate, and their understanding willnot be bolstered by the extra redundancy andcapabilities that the display offers to the Englishspeaker.A third major challenge is posed by the handhelddevice platform with its computational and storagelimitations, and the near-real-time requirement of theenvisioned usage.
The restriction to integer-onlycomputation is most serious for the speech recognition,as nearly all medium- or large-vocabulary speechrecognizers perform extensive floating-pointcomputations, and the conversion of a speech recognizerto use only integer computation required considerableeffort.
The severe memory limitations perhaps impactmost the parsing/generation components of the system.6 SummaryWe have described a prototype of a spoken languagetranslation system for use by English-speaking medicalpersonnel treating Pashto-speaking patients.
Thesystem, which is targeted to a handheld device, is beingdeveloped with extremely little Pashto-language data ofany kind.
It builds on medium-vocabulary speaker-independent HMM-based speech recognition, rule-based translation and supporting methods, andconcatenative synthesis.
While the system is certainlystill under development, it has provided a reasonableproof of concept in informal trials.AcknowledgmentsThis work was supported under SPAWAR contract N66001-99-D-8504 with funding from DARPA.
Many thanks are dueto Mohammad Shahabuddin Khan, David Kale, Robert J.Podesva, Valerie Wagner, and many Pashto speakers whoworked with us in various capacities.ReferencesCepstral, LLC.
2004.
Theta: Small footprint text-to-speech synthesizer, Pittsburgh, PA, http://www.cepstral.comJ.
Dowding, J. M. Gawron, D. E. Appelt, J.
Bear, L.Cherny, R. Moore, and D. B. Moran.
1993.
Gemini:A natural language system for spoken languageunderstanding.
Proceedings of the Thirty-FirstAnnual Meeting of the Association for ComputationalLinguistics, 54-61.
