Proceedings of the Human Language Technology Conference of the North American Chapter of the ACL, pages 201?204,New York, June 2006. c?2006 Association for Computational LinguisticsBridging the Inflection Morphology Gap for Arabic Statistical MachineTranslationAndreas Zollmann and Ashish Venugopal and Stephan VogelSchool of Computer ScienceCarnegie Mellon University{zollmann,ashishv,stephan.vogel}@cs.cmu.eduAbstractStatistical machine translation (SMT) isbased on the ability to effectively learnword and phrase relationships from par-allel corpora, a process which is consid-erably more difficult when the extent ofmorphological expression differs signifi-cantly across the source and target lan-guages.
We present techniques that se-lect appropriate word segmentations inthe morphologically rich source languagebased on contextual relationships in thetarget language.
Our results take ad-vantage of existing word level morpho-logical analysis components to improvetranslation quality above state-of-the-arton a limited-data Arabic to English speechtranslation task.1 IntroductionThe problem of translating from a language ex-hibiting rich inflectional morphology to a languageexhibiting relatively poor inflectional morphologypresents several challenges to the existing compo-nents of the statistical machine translation (SMT)process.
This inflection gap causes an abundance ofsurface word forms 1 in the source language com-pared with relatively few forms in the target lan-guage.
This mismatch aggravates several issues1We use the term surface form to refer to a series of charac-ters separated by whitespacefound in natural language processing: more un-known words forms in unseen data, more words oc-curring only once, more distinct words and lowertoken-to-type ratios (mean number of occurrencesover all distinct words) in the source language thanin the target language.Lexical relationships under the standard IBMmodels (Brown et al, 1993) do not account formany-to-many mappings, and phrase extraction re-lies heavily on the accuracy of the IBM word-to-word alignment.
In this work, we propose an ap-proach to bridge the inflectional gap that addressesthe issues described above through a series of pre-processing steps based on the Buckwalter ArabicMorphological Analyzer (BAMA) tool (Buckwalter,2004).
While (Lee et al, 2003) develop accuratesegmentation models of Arabic surface word formsusing manually segmented data, we rely instead onthe translated context in the target language, lever-aging the manually constructed lexical gloss fromBAMA to select the appropriate segmented sense foreach Arabic source word.Our technique, applied as preprocessing to thesource corpus, splits and normalizes surface wordsbased on the target sentence context.
In contrastto (Popovic and Ney, 2004) and (Nie?en and Ney,2004), we do not modify the IBM models, and weleave reordering effects to the decoder.
Statisticallysignificant improvements (Zhang and Vogel, 2004)in BLEU and NIST translation score over a lightlystemmed baseline are reported on the available andwell known BTEC IWSLT?05 Arabic-English cor-pus (Eck and Hori, 2005).2012 Arabic Morphology in Recent WorkArabic-to-English machine translation exemplifiessome of the issues caused by the inflection gap.
Re-fer to (Buckwalter, 2005) and (Larkey et al, 2002)for examples that highlight morphological inflectionfor a simple Modern Standard Arabic (MSA) wordand basic stemming operations that we use as ourbaseline system.
(Nie?en and Ney, 2000) tackle the inflection gapfor German-to-English word alignment by perform-ing a series of morphological operations on the Ger-man text.
They fragment words based on a fullmorphological analysis of the sentence, but need touse domain specific and hand written rules to dealwith ambiguous fragmentation.
(Nie?en and Ney,2004) also extend the corpus by annotating eachsource word with morphological information andbuilding a hierarchical lexicon.
The experimentalresults show dramatic improvements from sentence-level restructuring (question inversion, separatedverb prefixes and merging phrases), but limited im-provement from the hierarchical lexicon, especiallyas the size of the training data increases.We conduct our morphological analysis at theword level, using Buckwalter Arabic MorphologicalAnalyzer (BAMA) version 2.0 (Buckwalter, 2004).BAMA analyzes a given surface word, returning aset of potential segmentations (order of a dozen) forthe source word into prefixes, stems, and suffixes.Our techniques select the appropriate splitting fromthat set by taking into account the target sides (fullsentences) of that word?s occurrences in the trainingcorpus.
We now describe each splitting techniquethat we apply.2.1 BAMA: Simple fragment splittingWe begin by simply replacing each Arabic wordwith the fragments representing the first of the pos-sible splittings returned by the BAMA tool.
BAMAuses simple word-based heuristics to rank the split-ting alternatives.2.2 CONTEXT: Single Sense selectionIn the step CONTEXT, we take advantage of thegloss information provided in BAMA?s lexicon.Each potential splitting corresponds to a particularchoice of prefix, stem and suffix, all of which existin the manually constructed lexicon, along with a setof possible translations (glosses) for each fragment.We select a fragmentation (choice of splitting for thesource word) whose corresponding glosses have themost target side matches in the parallel translation(of the full sentence).
The choice of fragmentationis saved and used for all occurrences of the surfaceform word in training and testing, introducing con-text sensitivity without parsing solutions.
In case ofunseen words during testing, we segment it simplyusing the first alternative from the BAMA tool.
Thisallows us to still translate an unseen test word cor-rectly even if the surface form was never seen duringtraining.2.3 CORRMATCH: Correspondence matchingThe Arabic language often encodes linguistic in-formation within the surface word form that is notpresent in English.
Word fragments that representthis missing information are misleading in the trans-lation process unless explicitly aligned to the NULLword on the target side.
In this step we explicitlyremove fragments that correspond to lexical infor-mation that is not represented in English.
While(Lee, 2004) builds part of speech models to recog-nize such elements, we use the fact that their corre-sponding English translations in the BAMA lexiconare empty.
Examples of such fragments are case andgender markers.
As an example of CORRMATCHremoval, we present the Arabic sentence ?
h?
*A lAya zAl u gayor naZiyf ?
(after BAMA only) whichbecomes ?h?
*A lA ya zAl gayor naZiyf?
after theCORRMATCH stage.
The ?u?
has been removed.3 Experimental FrameworkWe evaluate the impact of inflectional splitting onthe BTEC (Takezawa et al, 2002) IWSLT05 Ara-bic language data track.
The ?Supplied?
data trackincludes a 20K Arabic/English sentence pair train-ing set, as well as a development (?DevSet?)
andtest (?Test05?)
set of 500 Arabic sentences each and16 reference translations per Arabic sentence.
De-tails regarding the IWSLT evaluation criteria anddata topic and collection methods are available in(Eck and Hori, 2005).
We also evaluate on test anddevelopment data randomly sampled from the com-plete supplied dev and test data, due to considera-202tions noted by (Josep M.Crego, 2005) regarding thesimilarity of the development and test data sets.3.1 System descriptionTranslation experiments were conducted using the(Vogel et al, 2003) system with reordering and fu-ture cost estimation.
We trained translation parame-ters for 10 scores (language model, word and phrasecount, and 6 translation model scores from (Vogel,2005) ) with Minimum Error Rate training on thedevelopment set.
We optimized separately for boththe NIST (Doddington, 2002) and the BLEU metrics(Papineni et al, 2002).4 Translation ResultsTable 1 and 2 shows the results of each stageof inflectional splitting on the BLEU and NISTmetrics.
Basic orthographic normalization servesas a baseline (merging all Alif, tar marbuta, eeforms to the base form).
The test set NIST scoresshow steady improvements of up to 5 percent rel-ative, as more sophisticated splitting techniquesare used, ie BAMA+CONTEXT+CORRMATCH.These improvements are statistically significant overthe baseline in both metrics as measured by the tech-niques in (Zhang and Vogel, 2004).Our NIST results for all the final stages of inflec-tional splitting would place us above the top NISTscores from the ISWLT evaluation on the suppliedtest set.2 On both DevSet/Test05 and the randomlysplit data, we see more dramatic improvements inthe NIST scores than in BLEU.
This might be due tothe NIST metric?s sensitivity to correctly translatingcertain high gain words in the test corpus.
Inflec-tional splitting techniques that cause previously un-known surface form words to be translated correctlyafter splitting can significantly impact the overallscore.5 Conclusion and Future WorkThis work shows the potential for significant im-provements in machine translation quality by di-rectly bridging the inflectional gap across languagepairs.
Our method takes advantage of source and2The IWSLT evaluation did not allow systems to train sep-arately for evaluation on BLEU or NIST, but results from theproceedings indicate that top performers in each metric opti-mized towards the respective metric.target language context when conducting morpho-logical analysis of each surface word form, whileavoiding complex parsing engines or refinements tothe alignment training process.
Our results are pre-sented on moderately sized corpora rather than thescarce resource domain that has been traditionallyemployed to highlight the impact of detailed mor-phological analysis.By showing the impact of simple processing stepswe encourage the creation of simple word and glosslevel analysis tools for new languages and showthat small investments in this direction (comparedto high octane context sensitive parsing tools) canyield dramatic improvements, especially when rapiddevelopment of machine translation tools becomesincreasingly relevant to the research community.While our work focused on processing the morpho-logically rich language and then translating ?down?into the morphologically poor language, we plan touse the analysis tools developed here to model thereverse translation process as well, the harder taskof translating ?up?
into a highly inflected space.ReferencesPeter F. Brown, Vincent J. Della Pietra, Stephen A. DellaPietra, and Robert L. Mercer.
1993.
The mathemat-ics of statistical machine translation: parameter esti-mation.
Comput.
Linguist., 19(2):263?311.Tim Buckwalter.
2004.
Buckwalter Arabic Mor-phological Analyzer Version 2.0.
LDC Cata-log No.
LDC2004L02, Linguistic Data Consortium,www.ldc.upenn.edu/Catalog.Tim Buckwalter.
2005.www.qamus.org/morphology.htm.George Doddington.
2002.
Automatic evaluation of ma-chine translation quality using n-gram co-occurrencestatistics.
In In Proc.
ARPA Workshop on Human Lan-guage Technology.Matthias Eck and Chiori Hori.
2005.
Overview of theIWSLT 2005 evaluation campaign.
In Proceedings ofInternational Workshop on Spoken Language Transla-tion, pages 11?17.Jose B.Marino Josep M.Crego, Adria de Gispert.
2005.The talp ngram-based smt system for iwslt?05.
In Pro-ceedings of International Workshop on Spoken Lan-guage Translation, pages 191?198.203Inflection system NIST ?
Dev.
NIST ?
Test BLEU ?
Dev.
BLEU ?
TestNo preprocessing 9.33 9.44 51.1 49.7Orthographic normalization (baseline) 9.41 9.51 51.0 49.7BAMA 9.90 9.76 (+2.5%) 52.0 50.2 (+1%)BAMA+CONTEXT+CORRMATCH 9.91 10.02 (+5.3%) 52.8 52.0 (+4.7%)Table 1: Translation results for each stage of inflectional splitting for the merged, sampled dev.
and testdata, highest scores in bold, relative improvements in bracketsInflection system NIST ?
Dev.
NIST ?
Test BLEU ?
Dev.
BLEU ?
TestNo preprocessing 9.46 9.38 51.1 49.6Orthographic normalization (baseline) 9.58 9.35 52.1 49.8BAMA 10.10 9.60 (+2.7%) 53.8 48.8 (-2%)BAMA+CONTEXT+CORRMATCH 10.08 9.79 (+4.7%) 53.7 50.6 (+1.6%)Table 2: Translation results for each stage of inflectional splitting for the BTEC Supplied DevSet/Test05data, highest scores in bold, relative improvements in bracketsLeah Larkey, Lisa Ballesteros, and Margaret Connell.2002.
Improving stemming for arabic information re-trieval: Light stemming and co-occurrence analysis.In Proc.
of the 25th annual international ACM SIGIRconference on Research and development informationretrieval.Young-Suk Lee, Kishore Papineni, Salim Roukos, Os-sama Emam, and Hany Hassan.
2003.
Languagemodel based arabic word segmentation.
In ACL, Sap-poro, Japan, July 6-7.Young-Suk Lee.
2004.
Morphological analysis for sta-tistical machine translation.
In Proceedings of the Hu-man Language Technology and North American As-sociation for Computational Linguistics Conference(HLT/NAACL), Boston,MA, May 27-June 1.Sonja Nie?en and Hermann Ney.
2000.
Improving SMTquality with morpho-syntactic analysis.
In The 18thInternational Conference on Computational Linguis-tics.Sonja Nie?en and Herman Ney.
2004.
Statistical ma-chine translation with scarce resources using morpho-syntactic information.
Comput.
Linguist., 30(2):181?204.Kishore Papineni, Salim Roukos, Todd Ward, and Wei-Jing Zhu.
2002.
Bleu: a method for automatic eval-uation of machine translation.
In Proceedings of theAssociation of Computational Linguistics, pages 311?318.H.
Popovic and Hermann Ney.
2004.
Improving wordalignment quality using morpho-syntactic informa-tion.
In 20th International Conference on Computa-tional Linguistics (CoLing), Geneva, Switzerland.Toshiyuki Takezawa, Eiichiro Sumita, Fumiaki Sugaya,Hirofumi Yamamoto, and Seiichi Yamamoto.
2002.Toward a broad-coverage bilingual corpus for speechtranslation of travel conversations in the real world.
InProc.
of LREC 2002, pages 147?152, Las Palmas, Ca-nary Islands, Spain, May.Stephan Vogel, Ying Zhang, Fei Huang, Alicia Trib-ble, Ashish Venogupal, Bing Zhao, and Alex Waibel.2003.
The CMU statistical translation system.
In Pro-ceedings of MT Summit IX, New Orleans, LA, Septem-ber.Stephan Vogel.
2005.
PESA: Phrase pair extraction assentence splitting.
In Proceedings of MT Summit X,Phuket,Thailand, September.Ying Zhang and Stephan Vogel.
2004.
Measuring confi-dence intervals for the machine translation evaluationmetrics.
In Proceedings of the 10th International Con-ference on Theoretical and Methodological Issues inMachine Translation (TMII), Baltimore, MD, October.204
