Proceedings of the Human Language Technology Conference of the North American Chapter of the ACL, pages 105?108,New York, June 2006. c?2006 Association for Computational LinguisticsUsing Semantic Authoring for Blissymbols Communication BoardsYael NetzerDept.
of Computer ScienceBen Gurion UniversityBeer Sheva, Israelyaeln@cs.bgu.ac.ilMichael ElhadadDept.
of Computer ScienceBen Gurion UniversityBeer Sheva, Israelelhadad@cs.bgu.ac.ilAbstractNatural language generation (NLG) refersto the process of producing text in a spo-ken language, starting from an internalknowledge representation structure.
Aug-mentative and Alternative Communica-tion (AAC) deals with the developmentof devices and tools to enable basic con-versation for language-impaired people.We present an applied prototype of anAAC-NLG system generating written out-put in English and Hebrew from a se-quence of Bliss symbols.
The system doesnot ?translate?
the symbols sequence, butinstead, it dynamically changes the com-munication board as the choice of sym-bols proceeds according to the syntacticand semantic content of selected symbols,generating utterances in natural languagethrough a process of semantic authoring.1 IntroductionPeople who suffer from severe language impair-ments lack the ability to express themselves throughnatural usage of language and cannot achieve var-ious forms of communication.
The field of Aug-mentative and Alternative Communication (AAC) isconcerned with methods that can be added to thenatural communication.
In the most common form,iconic symbols are presented on a display (or a com-munication board).
Communication is conducted bythe sequential selection of symbols on the display(with vocal output when available), which are theninterpreted by the partner in the interaction.AAC devices are characterized by three aspects:(i) Selection method i.e., the physical choice of sym-bols on the communication board; (ii) input lan-guage and (iii) output medium.
In a computerizedsystem, as (McCoy and Hershberger, 1999) mention,a processing method aspect is added to this list.
Thismethod refers to the process which creates the out-put once symbols are inserted.We specifically study the set of symbols (as an in-put language) called Blissymbolics (Bliss in short).Bliss is a graphic meaning-referenced language, cre-ated by Charles Bliss to be used as a written univer-sal language (Bliss, 1965); since 1971, Blissymbolsare used for communication with severely language-impaired children.
Bliss is designed to be a written-only language, with non-arbitrary symbols.
Sym-bols are constructed from a composition of atomicicons.
Because words are structured from seman-tic components, the graphic representation by itselfprovides information on words?
connectivity 1.In the last decade, several systems that integrateNLG techniques for AAC systems have been devel-oped ((McCoy, 1997), (Vaillant, 1997) for example).These systems share a common architecture: a tele-graphic input sequence (words or symbols) is firstparsed, and then a grammatical sentence that repre-sents the message is generated.This paper presents an NLG-AAC system thatgenerates messages through a controlled process ofauthoring, where each step in the selection of sym-bols is controlled by the input specification defined1See http://www.bci.org for reference on the language105for the linguistic realizer.2 Generating Messages via TranslationA major difficulty when parsing a telegraphic se-quence of words or symbols, is that many of thehints that are used to capture the structure of thetext and, accordingly, the meaning of the utterance,are missing.
Moreover, as an AAC device is usu-ally used for real-time conversation, the interpreta-tion of utterances relies heavily on pragmatics ?
timeof mentioned events, reference to the immediate en-vironment.Previous works dealing with translating tele-graphic text, such as (Grishman and Sterling, 1989),(Lee et al, 1997) requires to identify dependencyrelations among the tokens of the telegraphic input.Rich lexical knowledge is needed to identify possi-ble dependencies in a given utterance, i.e., to findthe predicate and to apply constraints, such as selec-tional restrictions to recognize its arguments.Similar methods were used for AAC applica-tions, COMPANSION (McCoy, 1997) for example?
where the telegraphic text is expanded to full sen-tences, using a word order parser, and a semanticparser to build the case frame structure of the verbin the utterance, filling the slots with the rest of thecontent words given.
The system uses the semanticrepresentation to re-generate fluent text, relying onlexical resources and NLG techniques.The main questions at stake in this approach arehow good can a semantic parser be, in order to re-construct the full structure of the sentence from tele-graphic input and are pragmatic gaps in the giventelegraphic utterances recoverable in general.3 Generating Messages via SemanticAuthoringOur approach differs from previous NLG-AAC sys-tems in that, with the model of semantic authoring(Biller et al, 2005), we intervene during the processof composing the input sequence, and thus can pro-vide early feedback (in the form of display composi-tion and partial text feedback), while preventing theneed for parsing a telegraphic sequence.Semantic parsing is avoided by constructing a se-mantic structure explicitly while the user inputs thesequence incrementally.
It combines three aspectsinto an integrated approach for the design of an AACsystem:?
Semantic authoring drives a natural languagerealization system and provides rich semanticinput.?
A display is updated on the fly as the authoringsystem requires the user to select options.?
Ready-made inputs, corresponding to prede-fined pragmatic contexts are made available tothe user as semantic templates.In this method, each step of input insertion is con-trolled by a set of constraints and rules, which aredrawn from an ontology.
The system offers, at eachstep, only possible complements to a small set ofconcepts.
For example, if the previous symbol de-notes a verb which requires an instrumental theme,only symbols that can function as instruments arepresented on the current display.
Other symbols areaccessible through navigation operations, which areinterpreted in the context of the current partial se-mantic specification.
The general context of eachutterance or conversation can be determined by theuser, therefore narrowing the number of symbolsdisplayed in the board.The underlying process of message generation isbased on layered lexical knowledge bases (LKB)and an ontology.
The ontology serves as a basisfor the semantic authoring process; it includes a hi-erarchy of concepts and relations, and the informa-tion it encodes interacts with the conceptual graphsprocessing performed as part of content determina-tion and lexical choice.
The ontology was acquiredwith a semi-automatic tool, which relies on WordNet(Miller, 1995) and VerbNet (Kipper et al, 2000).We designed and implemented the Bliss lexiconfor both Hebrew and English.
The lexicon can beused either as a stand-alone lexicon or as part of anapplication through an API.
The design of the lexi-con takes advantage of the unique properties of thelanguage.
The Bliss lexicon provides the list of sym-bols accessible to the user, along with their graphicrepresentation, semantic information, and the map-ping of symbols to English and Hebrew words.
Thelexicon can be searched by keyword (learn), or bysemantic/graphic component: searching all words inthe lexicon that contain both food and meat returnsthe symbols hamburger, hot-dog, meatball etc.
(see106Fig.
1).
The lexicon currently includes 2,200 en-tries.Figure 1: A snapshot of the Bliss Lexicon Web Ap-plicationThe core of the processing machinery of theAAC message generation system is based on SAUT(Biller et al, 2005) ?
an authoring system for logicalforms encoded as conceptual graphs (CG).
The sys-tem belongs to the family of WYSIWYM (What YouSee Is What You Mean) (Power and Scott, 1998) textgeneration systems: logical forms are entered inter-actively and the corresponding linguistic realizationof the expressions is generated in several languages.The system maintains a model of the discourse con-text corresponding to the authored documents to en-able reference planning in the generation process.Generating language from pictorial inputs, andspecifically from Bliss symbols using semantic au-thoring in the WYSIWYM approach is not only apictorial application of the textual version, but it alsoaddresses specific needs of augmentative communi-cation.As was mentioned above, generating text from atelegraphic message for AAC usage must take thecontext of the conversation into account.
We addressthis problem in two manners: (1) adding pre-definedinputs into the system (yet alowing accurate textgeneration that considers syntactic variations), and(2) enabling the assignment of default values to eachconversation (such as participants, tense, mood).
Wealso take advantage of the unique properties of theBliss symbols; the set of symbols that are offeredin each display can be filtered using their seman-tic/graphical connectivity; the reduction of the num-ber of possible choices that are to be made by theuser in each step of the message generation affectsthe cognitive load and can affect the rate of commu-nication.4 EvaluationWe evaluate our system as an AAC application formessage generation from communication boards.From an NLG evaluation perspective, this corre-sponds to an intrinsic evaluation, i.e.
judging qualitycriteria of the generated text and its adequacy rela-tive to the input (Bangalore et al, 1998).
Since theprototype of our system is not yet adjusted to inter-act with alternative pointing devices, we could nottest it on actual Bliss users, and could not perform afull extrinsic (task-based) evaluation.However, as argued in (Higginbotham, 1995),evaluations of AAC systems with nondisabled sub-jects, when appropriately used, is easier to per-form, and in some cases provide superior results.Higginbotham?s claims rely on the observation thatthe methods of message production are not uniqueto AAC users and analogous communication situa-tions exist both for disabled and nondisabled users.Nondisabled subjects can contribute to the under-standing of the cognitive processes underlying theacquisition of symbol and device performance com-petencies.
We believe that the evaluation of effi-ciency for non-AAC users should be served as base-line.The approach we offer for message generation re-quires users to plan their sentences abstractly.
(Mc-Coy and Hershberger, 1999) points that novel sys-tems may be found to slow communication but to in-crease literacy skills.
We therefore tested both speedof message generation and semantic coverage (thecapability to generate a given message correctly).The usage of semantic authoring was evaluated onnondisabled subjects through a user study of 10 sub-jects.
This provides a reliable approximation of thelearning curve and usability of the system in general(Biller et al, 2005).In order to evaluate the keystroke savings of thesystem we have collected a set of 19 sentences writ-ten in Bliss and their full English correspondents.We compared the number of the words in the Eng-lish sentences with the number of choices neededto generate the sentence with our system.
The totalnumber of choice steps is 133, while the total num-107ber of words in the sentences is 122.
This simple ra-tio shows no improvement of keystrokes saving us-ing our system.
Savings, therefore, must be calcu-lated in terms of narrowing the choice possibilitiesin each step of the process.However, counting the number of words does notinclude morphology which in Bliss symbols requiresadditional choices.
We have counted the wordsin the sentences considering morphology markersof inflections as additional words, all summing to138, as was suggested in (McCoy and Hershberger,1999).Assuming a display with 50 symbols (and addi-tional keys for functions) ?
a vocabulary of requires50 different screens.
Assuming symbols are orga-nized by frequencies (first screens present the mostfrequently used words) or by semantic domain.The overall number of selections is reduced usingour communication board since the selectional re-strictions narrow the number of possible choices thatcan be made at each step.
The extent to which selec-tion time can be reduced at each step depends on theapplication domain and the ontology structure.
Wecannot evaluate it in general, but expect that a well-structured ontology could support efficient selectionmechanisms, by grouping semantically related sym-bols in dedicated displays.In addition, the semantic authoring approach cangenerate fluent output in other languages (Englishand Hebrew, beyond the Bliss sequence ?
without re-quiring noisy translation).
We also hypothesize thatontologically motivated grouping of symbols couldspeed up each selection step ?
but this claim must beassessed empirically in a task-based extrinsic evalu-ation, which remains to be done in the future.We are now building the environment for AACusers with cooperation with ISAAC-ISRAEL 2, inorder to make the system fully accessible and to betested by AAC-users.
However, this work is still inprogress.
Once this will be achieved, full evaluationof the system will be plausible.5 Conclusions and Future WorkThis work offers a new approach for message gen-eration in the context of AAC displays using seman-2Israeli chapter of the International Society for Augmenta-tive and Alternative Communicationtic authoring and preventing the need to parse andre-generate.
We have designed and implemented aBliss lexicon for both Hebrew and English, whichcan either be used a stand-alone lexicon for refer-ence usage or as a part of an application.Future work includes an implementation of a sys-tem with full access for alternative devices, expan-sion of the underlying lexicon for Hebrew genera-tion, and adding voice output.ReferencesSrinivas Bangalore, Anoop Sarkar, Christy Doran, and Beth-Ann Hockey.
1998.
Grammar and parser evaluation in theXTAG project.
In Proc.
of Workshop on Evaluation of Pars-ing Systems, Granada, Spain, May.Ofer Biller, Michael Elhadad, and Yael Netzer.
2005.
Interac-tive authoring of logical forms for multilingual generation.In Proc.
of the 10th workshop of ENLG, Aberdeen, Scotland.Charles K. Bliss.
1965.
Semantography (Blissymbolics).
Se-mantography Press, Sidney.Ralph Grishman and John Sterling.
1989.
Analyzing tele-graphic messages.
In Proc.
of DARPA Speech and NaturalLanguage Workshop, pages 204?208, Philadelphia, Febru-ary.D.
Jeffery Higginbotham.
1995.
Use of nondisabled subjectsin AAC research: Confessions of a research infidel.
AACAugmentative and Alternative Communication, 11, March.AAC Research forum.K.
Kipper, H. Trang Dang, and M. Palmer.
2000.
Class-basedconstruction of a verb lexicon.
In Proceeding of AAAI-2000.Young-Suk Lee, Clifford Weinstein, Stephanie Seneff, and Di-nesh Tummala.
1997.
Ambiguity resolution for machinetranslation of telegraphic messages.
In Proc.
of the 8th con-ference on EACL, pages 120?127.Kathleen F. McCoy and Dave Hershberger.
1999.
The roleof evaluation in bringing NLP to AAC: A case to consider.In Filip T. Loncke, John Clibbens, Helen H. Arvidson, andLyle L. Lloyd, editors, AAC: New Directions in Research andPractice, pages 105?122.
Whurr Publishers, London.Kathleen F. McCoy.
1997.
Simple NLP techiques for expand-ing telegraphic sentences.
In Proc.
of workshop on NLP forCommunication Aids, Madrid, July.
ACL/EACL.George A. Miller.
1995.
WORDNET: a lexical database forEnglish.
Commun.
ACM, 38(11):39?41.Roger Power and Donia Scott.
1998.
Multilingual authoringusing feedback texts.
In Proc.
of COLING-ACL 98, Mon-treal, Canada.Pascal Vaillant.
1997.
A semantic-based communication sys-tem for dysphasic subjects.
In Proc.
of the 6th conferenceon AI in Medicine Europe (AIME?97), Grenoble, France,March.108
