Proceedings of the Human Language Technology Conference of the NAACL, Companion Volume, pages 265?268,New York City, June 2006. c?2006 Association for Computational LinguisticsMTTK: An Alignment Toolkit for Statistical Machine TranslationYonggang Deng 1Center for Language and Speech Processing1Johns Hopkins UniversityBaltimore, MD 21218dengyg@jhu.eduWilliam Byrne1,2Machine Intelligence Lab 2Cambridge University Engineering DepartmentTrumpington Street, Cambridge CB2 1PZ, UKwjb31@cam.ac.ukAbstractThe MTTK alignment toolkit for statisti-cal machine translation can be used forword, phrase, and sentence alignment ofparallel documents.
It is designed mainlyfor building statistical machine translationsystems, but can be exploited in othermulti-lingual applications.
It providescomputationally efficient alignment andestimation procedures that can be usedfor the unsupervised alignment of paralleltext collections in a language independentfashion.
MTTK Version 1.0 is availableunder the Open Source Educational Com-munity License.1 IntroductionParallel text alignment procedures attempt to iden-tify translation equivalences within collections oftranslated documents.
This can be be done at variouslevels.
At the finest level, this involves the alignmentof words and phrases within two sentences that areknown to be translations (Brown et al, 1993; Ochand Ney, 2003; Vogel et al, 1996; Deng and Byrne,2005).
Another task is the identification and align-ment of sentence-level segments within documentpairs that are known to be translations (Gale andChurch, 1991); this is referred to as sentence-levelalignment, although it may also involve the align-ment of sub-sentential segments (Deng et al, ) aswell as the identification of long segments in eitherdocument which are not translations.
There is alsodocument level translation which involves the iden-tification of translated document pairs in a collectionof documents in multiple languages.
As an example,Figure 1 shows parallel Chinese/English text that isaligned at the sentence, word, and phrase levels.Parallel text plays a crucial role in multi-lingualnatural language processing research.
In particu-lar, statistical machine translation systems requirecollections of sentence pairs (or sentence fragmentpairs) as the basic ingredients for building statisticalword and phrase alignment models.
However, withthe increasing availability of parallel text, human-created alignments are expensive and often unaf-fordable for practical systems, even at a small scale.High quality automatic alignment of parallel text hastherefore become indispensable.
In addition to goodalignment quality, several other properties are alsodesirable in automatic alignment systems.
Ideally,these should be general-purpose and language in-dependent, capable of aligning very different lan-guages, such as English, French, Chinese, Germanand Arabic, to give a few examples of current in-terest.
If the alignment system is based on statis-tical models, the model parameters should be esti-mated from scratch, in an unsupervised manner fromwhatever parallel text is available.
To process mil-lions of sentence pairs, these models need to be ca-pable of generalization and the alignment and esti-mation algorithms should be computationally effi-cient.
Finally, since noisy mismatched text is oftenfound in real data, such as parallel text mined fromweb pages, automatic alignment needs to be robust.There are systems available for these purposes, no-tably the GIZA++ (Och and Ney, 2003) toolkit and265! "
# $ % & ' () , * +,$ % '- , ./ 01 &2 .It is necessary to resolutely remove obstacles inrivers and lakes .3 4 56 78 9: , ;< => .4 .
It is necessary to strengthen monitoring andforecast work and scientifically dispatch people andmaterials .!
?
@ AB CD , EFGH IJ 9: K> .It is necessary to take effective measures and try byevery possible means to provide precision forecast .L M !
NO PQ RS 9: FT ,A U*V W XY() .Before the flood season comes , it is necessary toseize the time to formulate plans for forecastingfloods and to carry out work with clear 	Figure 1: Chinese/English Parallel Corpus Aligned at the Sentence, Word, and Phrase Levels: horizontallines denote the segmentations of a sentence alignment and arrows denote a word-level mapping.the Champollion Toolkit (Ma et al, 2004).This demo introduces MTTK, the Machine Trans-lation Toolkit.
The toolkit can be used to train statis-tical models and perform parallel text alignment atdifferent levels.
Target applications include not onlymachine translation, but also bilingual lexicon in-duction, cross lingual information retrieval and othermulti-lingual applications.2 MTTK ComponentsMTTK is a collection of C++ programs and Perland shell scripts that can be used to build statisti-cal alignment models from parallel text.
Respectiveof the text to be aligned, MTTK?s functions are cat-egorized into the following two main parts.2.1 Chunk AlignmentChunk alignment aims to extract sentence or sub-sentence pairs from parallel corpora.
A chunkcan be multiple sentences, a sentence or a sub-sentence, as required by the application.
Two align-ment procedures are implemented: one is the widelyused dynamic programming procedure that derivesmonotone alignment of sentence segments (Galeand Church, 1991); the other is divisive clusteringprocedure that begins by finding coarse alignmentsthat are then iteratively refined by successive binarysplitting (Deng et al, ).
These two types of align-ment procedures complement each other.
They canbe used together to improve the overall sentencealignment quality.When translation lexicons are not available,chunk alignment can be performed using length-based statistics.
This usually can serve as a start-ing point of sentence alignment.
Alignment qual-ity can be further improved when the chunking pro-cedure is based on translation lexicons from IBMModel-1 alignment model (Brown et al, 1993).
TheMTTK toolkit also generates alignment score foreach chunk pair, that can be utilized in post process-ing, for example in filtering out aligned segments ofdubious quality.2.2 Word and Phrase AlignmentAfter a collection of sentence or sub-sentence pairsare extracted via chunk alignment procedures, sta-tistical word and phrase alignment models can beestimated with EM algorithms.
MTTK provides im-plementations of various alignment, models includ-ing IBM Model-1, Model-2 (Brown et al, 1993),HMM-based word-to-word alignment model (Vogelet al, 1996; Och and Ney, 2003) and HMM-basedword-to-phrase alignment model (Deng and Byrne,2005).
After model parameters are estimated, theViterbi word alignments can be derived.
A novelcomputation performed by MTTK is the genera-266tion of model-based phrase pair posterior distribu-tions (Deng and Byrne, 2005), which plays an im-portant role in extracting a phrase-to-phrase transla-tion probabilities.3 MTTK FeaturesMTTK is designed to process huge amounts of par-allel text.
Model parameter estimation can be car-ried out parallel during EM training using multipleCPUs.
The entire parallel text is split into parts.During each E-step , statistics are collected paral-lel over each part, while in the M-steps, these statis-tics are merged together to update model parame-ters for next iteration.
This parallel implementationnot only reduces model training time significantly,it also avoids memory usage issues that arise in pro-cessing millions of sentence pairs, since each E-Stepneed only save and process co-occurrence that ap-pears in its part of the parallel text.
This enablesbuilding a single model from many millions of sen-tence pairs.Another feature of MTTK is language indepen-dence.
Linguistic knowledge is not required duringmodel training, although when it is available, per-formance can be improved.
Statistical parametersare estimated and learned automatically from datain an unsupervised way.
To accommodate languagediversity, there are several parameters in MTTK thatcan be tuned for individual applications to optimizeperformance.4 A Typical Application of MTTK inParallel Text AlignmentA typical example of using MTTK is give in Fig-ure 2.
It starts with a collection of document pairs.During pre-processing, documents are normalizedand tokenized into token sequences.
This prepro-cessing is carried out before using the MTTK, andis usually language dependent, requiring, for exam-ple, segmenting Chinese characters into words or ap-plying morphological analyzing to Arabic word se-quences.Statistical models are then built from scratch.Chunk alignment begins with length statistics thatcan be simply obtained by counting the number oftokens on in each language.
The chunk aligningprocedure then applies dynamic programming to de-rive a sentence alignment.
After sorting the gener-ated sentence pairs by their probabilities, high qual-ity sentence pairs are then selected and used to traina translation lexicon.
As an input for next roundchunk alignment, more and better sentence pairs canbe extracted and serve as training material for a bet-ter translation lexicon.
This bootstrapping procedureidentifies high quality sentence pairs in an iterativefashion.To maximize the number of training words forbuilding word and phrase alignment models, longsentence pairs are then processed further using a di-visive clustering chunk procedure that derives chunkpairs at the sub-sentence level.
This provides addi-tional translation training pairs that would otherwisebe discarded as being overly long.Once all usable chunk pairs are identified in thechunk alignment procedure, word alignment modeltraining starts with IBM Model-1.
Model com-plexity increases gradually to Model-2, and thenHMM-based word-to-word alignment model, andfinally to HMM-based word-to-phrase alignmentmodel (Deng and Byrne, 2005).
With these models,word alignments can be obtained using the Viterbialgorithm, and phrase pair posterior distributionscan be computed in building a phrase translation ta-ble.In published experiments we have found thatMTTK generates alignments of quality comparableto those generated by GIZA++, where alignmentquality is measured both directly in terms of Align-ment Error Rate relative to human word alignmentsand indirectly through the translation performanceof systems constructed from the alignments (Dengand Byrne, 2005).
We have used MTTK as the basisof translation systems entered into the recent NISTArabic-English and Chinese-English MT Evalua-tions as well as the TC-STAR Chinese-English MTevaluation (NIST, 2005; TC-STAR, 2005).5 AvailabilityMTTK Version 1.0 is released under the OpenSource Educational Community License1.The tools and documentation are available athttp://mi.eng.cam.ac.uk/?wjb31/distrib/mttkv1/ .1http://www.opensource.org/licenses/ecl1.php267{ t(f|e), a(i|j;l,m) }WtW HMM Training{ t(f|e), P(i|i?
;l) }AlignSHmm{ t(f|e), P(i|i?
;l), n(phi;e), t2(f|f?,e) }Model?1 Training{ t(f|e) }Model?2 TrainingWtP HMM Training w/ Bigram t?table{ t(f|e), P(i|i?
;l), n(phi;e) }WtP HMM Training N=2,3...Length StatisticsAlignHmmAlignM2AlignM1AlignSHmmPPEMPPEMPPEHmmPPEHmmPPEHmmHigh Quality PairsModel?1 Training{ t(f|e) }FilterChunk AlignmentsWord AlignmentsPhrase AlignmentsDocument AlignmentsBitext ChunkingFigure 2: A Typical Unsupervised Translation Alignment Procedure with MTTK.6 AcknowledgementsFunded by ONR MURI Grant N00014-01-1-0685.ReferencesP.
Brown, S. Della Pietra, V. Della Pietra, and R. Mer-cer.
1993.
The mathematics of machine transla-tion: Parameter estimation.
Computational Linguis-tics, 19:263?312.Y.
Deng and W. Byrne.
2005.
Hmm word and phrasealignment for statistical machine translation.
In Proc.of HLT-EMNLP.Y.
Deng, S. Kumar, and W. Byrne.
Segmentation andalignment of parallel text for statistical machine trans-lation.
Journal of Natural Language Engineering.
toappear.W.
A. Gale and K. W. Church.
1991.
A program foraligning sentences in bilingual corpora.
In Meeting ofthe Association for Computational Linguistics, pages177?184.X.
Ma, C. Cieri, and D. Miller.
2004.
Corpora & toolsfor machine translation.
In Machine Translation Eval-uation Workshop, Alexandria, VA. NIST.NIST, 2005.
The NIST Machine Translation Eval-uations Workshop.
North Bethesda, MD, June.http://www.nist.gov/speech/tests/summaries/2005/mt05.htm.F.
J. Och and H. Ney.
2003.
A systematic comparison ofvarious statistical alignment models.
ComputationalLinguistics, 29(1):19?51.TC-STAR, 2005.
TC-STAR Speech-to-Speech Trans-lation Evaluation Meeting.
Trento, Italy, April.http://www.tc-star.org/.S.
Vogel, H. Ney, and C. Tillmann.
1996.
HMM basedword alignment in statistical translation.
In Proc.
ofthe COLING.268
