Proceedings of the Human Language Technology Conference of the North American Chapter of the ACL, pages 117?120,New York, June 2006. c?2006 Association for Computational LinguisticsQuantitative Methods for Classifying Writing SystemsGerald PennUniversity of Toronto10 King?s College Rd.Toronto M5S 3G4, Canadagpenn@cs.toronto.eduTravis ChomaCognitive Science Center AmsterdamSarphatistraat 1041018 GV Amsterdam, Netherlandstravischoma@gmail.comAbstractWe describe work in progress on usingquantitative methods to classify writingsystems according to Sproat?s (2000) clas-sification grid using unannotated data.
Wespecifically propose two quantitative testsfor determining the type of phonographyin a writing system, and its degree of lo-gography, respectively.1 BackgroundIf you understood all of the world?s languages, youwould still not be able to read many of the textsthat you find on the world wide web, because theyare written in non-Roman scripts that have been ar-bitrarily encoded for electronic transmission in theabsence of an accepted standard.
This very mod-ern nuisance reflects a dilemma as ancient as writ-ing itself: the association between a language asit is spoken and the language as it is written has asort of internal logic to it that we can comprehend,but the conventions are different in every individ-ual case ?
even among languages that use the samescript, or between scripts used by the same language.This conventional association between language andscript, called a writing system, is indeed reminis-cent of the Saussurean conception of language itself,a conventional association of meaning and sound,upon which modern linguistic theory is based.Despite linguists?
necessary reliance upon writ-ing to present and preserve linguistic data, how-ever, writing systems were a largely neglected cor-ner of linguistics until the 1960s, when Gelb (1963)presented the first classification of writing systems.Now known as the Gelb teleology, this classificationviewed the variation we see among writing systems,particularly in the size of linguistic ?chunks?
rep-resented by an individual character or unit of writ-ing (for simplicity, referred to here as a grapheme),along a linear, evolutionary progression, beginningwith the pictographic forerunners of writing, pro-ceeding through ?primitive?
writing systems such asChinese and Egyptian hieroglyphics, and culminat-ing in alphabetic Greek and Latin.While the linear and evolutionary aspects ofGelb?s teleology have been rejected by more recentwork on the classification of writing systems, the ad-mission that more than one dimension may be nec-essary to characterize the world?s writing systemshas not come easily.
The ongoing polemic betweenSampson (1985) and DeFrancis (1989), for exam-ple, while addressing some very important issues inthe study of writing systems,1 has been confined ex-clusively to a debate over which of several arborealclassifications of writing is more adequate.Sproat (2000)?s classification was the first multi-dimensional one.
While acknowledging that otherdimensions may exist, Sproat (2000) arranges writ-ing systems along the two principal dimensions ofType of Phonography and Amount of Logography,both of which will be elaborated upon below.
Thisis the departure point for our present study.Our goal is to identify quantitative methods that1These include what, if anything, separates true writing sys-tems from other more limited written forms of communication,and the psychological reality of our classifications in the mindsof native readers.117Type of PhonographyConsonantal Polyconsonantal Alphabetic Core Syllabic SyllabicW.
Semitic English, PahawhHmong Linear B Modern YiGreek,Korean,Devanagari?
?AmountofLogographyPerso-AramaicChineseEgyptian Sumerian,Mayan,JapaneseFigure 1: Sproat?s writing system classification grid (Sproat, 2000, p. 142).can assist in the classification of writing systems.
Onthe one hand, these methods would serve to verifyor refute proposals such as Sproat?s (2000, p. 142)placement of several specific writing systems withinhis grid (Figure 1) and to properly place additionalwriting systems, but they could also be used, at leastcorroboratively, to argue for the existence of moreappropriate or additional dimensions in such grids,through the demonstration of a pattern being con-sistently observed or violated by observed writingsystems.
The holy grail in this area would be a toolthat could classify entirely unknown writing systemsto assist in attempts at archaeological decipherment,but more realistic applications do exist, particularlyin the realm of managing on-line document collec-tions in heterogeneous scripts or writing systems.No previous work exactly addresses this topic.None of the numerous descriptive accounts that cat-alogue the world?s writing systems, culminating inDaniels and Bright?s (1996) outstanding referenceon the subject, count as quantitative.
The one com-putational approach that at least claims to considerarchaeological decipherment (Knight and Yamada,1999), curiously enough, assumes an alphabetic andpurely phonographic mapping of graphemes at theoutset, and applies an EM-style algorithm to whatis probably better described as an interesting varia-tion on learning the ?letter-to-sound?
mappings thatone normally finds in text analysis for text-to-speechsynthesizers.
The cryptographic work in the greatwars of the early 20th century applied statistical rea-soning to military communications, although thistoo is very different in character from decipheringa naturally developed writing system.2 Type of PhonographyType of phonography, as it is expressed in Sproat?sgrid, is not a continuous dimension but a dis-crete choice by graphemes among several differ-ent phonographic encodings.
These characterizenot only the size of the phonological ?chunks?
en-coded by a single grapheme (progressing left-to-right in Figure 1 roughly from small to large),but also whether vowels are explicitly encoded(poly/consonantal vs. the rest), and, in the case ofvocalic syllabaries, whether codas as well as onsetsare encoded (core syllabic vs. syllabic).
While wecannot yet discriminate between all of these phono-graphic aspects (arguably, they are different dimen-sions in that a writing system may select a valuefrom each one independently), size itself can be reli-ably estimated from the number of graphemes in theunderlying script, or from this number in combina-tion with the tails of grapheme distributions in repre-sentative documents.
Figure 2, for example, graphsthe frequencies of the grapheme types witnessedamong the first 500 grapheme tokens of one docu-ment sampled from an on-line newspaper website ineach of 8 different writing systems plus an Egyp-tian hieroglyphic document from an on-line reposi-tory.
From left to right, we see the alphabetic andconsonantal (small chunks) scripts, followed by thepolyconsonantal Egyptian hieroglyphics, followedby core syllabic Japanese, and then syllabic Chinese.Korean was classified near Japanese because its Uni-code representation atomically encodes the multi-segment syllabic complexes that characterize mostHangul writing.
A segmental encoding would ap-pear closer to English.3 Amount of LogographyAmount of logography is rather more difficult.Roughly, logography is the capacity of a writingsystem to associate the symbols of a script directly118with the meanings of specific words rather than in-directly through their pronunciations.
No one toour knowledge has proposed any justification forwhether logography should be viewed continuouslyor discretely.
Sproat (2000) believes that it is contin-uous, but acknowledges that this belief is more im-pressionistic than factual.
In addition, it appears, ac-cording to Sproat?s (2000) discussion that amount ordegree of logography, whatever it is, says somethingabout the relative frequency with which graphemictokens are used semantically, rather than about theproperties of individual graphemes in isolation.
En-glish, for example, has a very low degree of lo-gography, but it does have logographic graphemesand graphemes that can be used in a logographicaspect.
These include numerals (with or withoutphonographic complements as in ?3rd,?
which dis-tinguishes ?3?
as ?three?
from ?3?
as ?third?
), dol-lar signs, and arguably some common abbreviationsas ?etc.?
By contrast, type of phonography predictsa property that holds of every individual grapheme?
with few exceptions (such as symbols for word-initial vowels in CV syllabaries), graphemes in thesame writing system are marching to the same drumin their phonographic dimension.Another reason that amount of logography is dif-ficult to measure is that it is not entirely indepen-dent of the type of phonography.
As the size of thephonological units encoded by graphemes increases,at some point a threshold is crossed wherein theunit is about the size of a word or another meaning-bearing unit, such as a bound morpheme.
Whenthis happens, the distinction between phonographicand logographic uses of such graphemes becomesa far more intensional one than in alphabetic writ-ing systems such as English, where the boundary isquite clear.
Egyptian hieroglyphics are well knownfor their use of rebus signs, for example, in whichhighly pictographic graphemes are used not for theconcepts denoted by the pictures, but for conceptswith words pronounced like the word for the de-picted concept.
There are very few writing systemsindeed where the size of the phonological unit isword-sized and yet the writing system is still mostlyphonographic;2 it could be argued that the distinc-2Modern Yi (Figure 1) is one such example, although thehistory of Modern Yi is more akin to that of a planned languagethan a naturally evolved semiotic system.tion simply does not exist (see Section 4).01020304050600 50 100 150 200 250frequencysymbol"Egyptian""English""Greek""Hebrew""Japanese""Korean""Mandarin""Spanish""Russian"Figure 2: Grapheme distributions in 9 writing sys-tems.
The symbols are ordered by inverse frequencyto separate the heads of the distributions better.
Theleft-to-right order of the heads is as shown in the key.Nevertheless, one can distinguish pervasive se-mantical use from pervasive phonographic use.
Wedo not have access to electronically encoded Mod-ern Yi text, so to demonstrate the principle, we willuse English text re-encoded so that each ?grapheme?in the new encoding represents three consecutivegraphemes (breaking at word boundaries) in the un-derlying natural text.
We call this trigraph English,and it has no (intensional) logography.
The princi-ple is that, if graphemes are pervasively used in theirsemantical respect, then they will ?clump?
seman-tically just like words do.
To measure this clump-ing, we use sample correlation coefficients.
Giventwo random variables, X and Y , their correlation isgiven by their covariance, normalized by their sam-ple standard deviations:corr(X,Y ) = cov(X,Y )s(X)?s(Y )cov(X,Y ) = 1n?1?0?i,j?n(xi ?
?i)(yj ?
?j)s(X) =?1n?1?0?i?n(xi ?
?
)2For our purposes, each grapheme type is treated asa variable, and each document represents an obser-vation.
Each cell of the matrix of correlation co-efficients then tells us the strength of the correla-tion between two grapheme types.
For trigraph En-glish, part of the correlation matrix is shown in Fig-ure 3.
Part of the correlation matrix for Mandarin119Figure 3: Part of the trigraph-English correlationmatrix.Chinese, which has a very high degree of logogra-phy, is shown in Figure 4.
For both of the plots inFigure 4: Part of the Mandarin Chinese correlationmatrix.our example, counts for 2500 grapheme types wereobtained from 1.63 million tokens of text (for En-glish, trigraphed Brown corpus text, for Chinese,GB5-encoded text from an on-line newspaper).By adding the absolute values of the correla-tions over these matrices (normalized for number ofgraphemes), we obtain a measure of the extent ofthe correlation.
Pervasive semantic clumping, whichwould be indicative of a high degree of logography,corresponds to a small extent of correlation ?
inother words the correlation is pinpointed at semanti-cally related logograms, rather than smeared over se-mantically orthogonal phonograms.
In our example,these sums were repeated for several 2500-type sam-ples from among the approximately 35,000 typesin the trigraph English data, and the approximately4,500 types in the Mandarin data.
The average sumfor trigraph English was 302,750 whereas for Man-darin Chinese it was 98,700.
Visually, this differ-ence is apparent in that the trigraph English matrixis ?brighter?
than the Mandarin one.
From this weshould conclude that Mandarin Chinese has a higherdegree of logography than trigraph English.4 ConclusionWe have proposed methods for independently mea-suring the type of phonography and degree of logog-raphy from unannotated data as a means of classify-ing writing systems.
There is more to understand-ing how a writing system works than these two di-mensions.
Crucially, the direction in which textsshould be read, the so-called macroscopic organi-zation of typical documents, is just as important asdetermining the functional characteristics of individ-ual graphemes.Our experiments with quantitative methods forclassification, furthermore, have led us to a new un-derstanding of the differences between Sproat?s clas-sification grid and earlier linear attempts.
While wedo not accept Gelb?s teleological interpretation, weconjecture that there is a linear variation in how in-dividual writing systems behave, even if they can beclassified according to multiple dimensions.
Mod-ern Yi stands as a single, but questionable, coun-terexample to this observation, and for it to be vis-ible in Sproat?s grid (with writing systems arrangedalong only the diagonal), one would need an objec-tive and verifiable means of discriminating betweenconsonantal and vocalic scripts.
This remains a topicfor future consideration.ReferencesP.
Daniels and W. Bright.
1996.
The World?s WritingSystems.
Oxford.J.
DeFrancis.
1989.
Visible Speech: The Diverse One-ness of Writing Systems.
University of Hawaii.I.
Gelb.
1963.
A Study of Writing.
Chicago, 2nd ed.K.
Knight and K. Yamada.
1999.
A computational ap-proach to deciphering unknown scripts.
In Proc.
ofACL Workshop on Unsupervised Learning in NLP.G.
Sampson.
1985.
Writing Systems.
Stanford.R.
Sproat.
2000.
A Computational Theory of WritingSystems.
Cambridge University Press.120
