Proceedings of the Human Language Technology Conference of the North American Chapter of the ACL, pages 247?249,New York, June 2006. c?2006 Association for Computational LinguisticsSupporting Multiple Information-Seeking Strategiesin a Single System FrameworkXiaojun YuanSchool of Communication, Information and Library StudiesRutgers, The State University of New JerseyNew Brunswick, NJ 08901, USAyuanxj@rci.rutgers.eduAbstractThis study investigates the support ofmultiple information seeking strategies(ISSs) within a single system, and therelation between varieties of ISSs andsystem design.
It proposes to constructand evaluate an interactive informationretrieval system which can adaptivelysupport multiple ISSs, and allow changefrom one ISS to another within an ISSspace.
It is conducted in a series of steps:iterative designing -evaluating of severalsystems supporting different ISSs;specifying an interaction structure formultiple ISSs; and, implementing andevaluating a dynamically adaptive systemsupporting multiple ISSs.
The study aimsto make a contribution to interactiveinformation retrieval drawing attention touser interface design, and to HCI, inintegration of multiple support techniqueswithin a single system framework.KeywordsInformation-seeking strategy, interactionstructure, user interface design, evaluation,information retrieval1   IntroductionTraditional information retrieval (IR) systems askpeople to specify queries using terms to selectdocuments from the selected databases.
Currentresearch indicates some problems of such systems.
(1) Human information-seeking behavior is morecomplicated than just query formulation and termselection.
For instance, people need to get an ideaof which domain or genre of information theyneed, then familiarize themselves with the contentand structure of various databases.
They need tolearn about a domain of interest and extend theirknowledge of this domain so that they canformulate more effective queries.
They need tochange their searching and seeking strategies toimprove their queries.
(2) Human information-seeking behaviors are not discrete processes.
Thesebehaviors interact with one another duringinformation-seeking processes (Belkin, 1996).
(3)Interaction, not representation or comparison, isthe central process of IR (Belkin, 1993).
(4) Userswith different goals need to use differentinformation-seeking strategies (ISSs) to conductsearches.
However, traditional IR systems onlysupport one ISS, that is, formulating queries usingterms to select documents from some databases(Belkin, 1993, 1995; Xie, 2000).
(5) It is knownthat different ISSs can be optimally supported bydifferent combinations of IR techniques (Oddy,1977).
The existing diversity of ISSs indicates thata system which provides good support for one ISSis unlikely to provide good support for the others.A system trying to support all ISSs with only onetechnique will be able to support them at onlymediocre levels.Therefore, the goal of the research is to design aninteractive IR system which incorporates differentIR techniques to adaptively support different ISSs.Specifically, our solution to these problemsfocuses mainly on the following two goals.
(1) Constructing a single IR system in whichsupport techniques are explicitly representedso that it is possible to shift from onecombination of support techniques to anotherin real time, and appropriate supporttechniques are suggested to the user by thesystem.
(2) Evaluating the effectiveness and usability ofthe system within controlled experiments.2472   Research ProblemsWe aim to investigate the following researchproblems:(1) Implementing and evaluating several systemswhich are tailored to scanning or searching.
(2) Developing a structure for guiding andcontrolling sequences of different supporttechniques.
(3) Constructing and evaluating a single systemwhich supports scanning and searchingthrough integration of different supporttechniques within a single system framework.3   Methodology3.1   Research Problem 1SYSTEMSUsing the Lemur toolkit (LEMUR), weimplemented and evaluated several differentprototype IR systems designed to support scanning(situation 1) or searching (situation 2).
Table 1describes the tasks, as well as features and supporttechniques for each system.HYPOTHESESHypothesis 1: The system summarizing eachdatabase is more effective in supporting scanningtasks than the baseline system which provides aranked list of documents with descriptions aboutwhich databases these documents are in.
(E1.1/B1.1, situation1-task1)Hypothesis 2: The system providing table ofcontents navigation is more effective in supportingscanning tasks than the baseline system whichlists ranked paragraphs.
(E1.2/B1.2, situation1-task2)Hypothesis 3: The system presenting clusteredretrieval results is more effective in supportingsearching tasks than the baseline system whichpresents a ranked list of retrieval results.
(E2.1/B2.1, situation2-task1)Hypothesis 4: The system supporting fieldedqueries is more effective in supporting searchingtasks than the baseline system which provides ageneric query search.
(E2.2/B2.2, situation2-task2)Table 1.
Situations, Tasks and SystemsEXPERIMENTAL DESIGNParticipants conducted four searches on fourdifferent topics that are suitable for scanning orsearching.
This is a within-subjects design.
Eachsubject searched half of the topics in one system,then half of the topics in the other system.
Withinthe topic block, the topic order was randomlyassigned.
No two subjects used the same order oftopics and the same order of systems.
Theexperiments were replicated by exchanging theorder of the systems.TEXT COLLECTIONSThere are two text collections: one is TRECHARD 2004 collection (HARD) which is suitablefor situation1-task1 and situation2-task1, the otheris a book database which is good for situation1-task2 and situation2-task2.
This database iscomposed of books downloaded from ProjectGutenberg (Gutenberg).TASKSIn this study, we used the simulated work tasksituation model (Borlund, 1997) to make subjects?behavior as true-to-life as possible, hoping this willSituations TasksExperimentalSystemsBaselineSystemsSupportTechniques1 1 E1.1 B1.1Scanning IdentifybestdatabasesAlphabeticallyordereddatabases(showingsummary foreach)Rankeddocuments(showing nameof the databasewith thedocument)2 E1.2 B1.2Findcommentsorquotationsfrom anelectronicbookTable ofContentsnavigationwithindocumentsRankedparagraphs2 1 E2.1 B2.1Searching FindrelevantdocumentsRankedclustersRankeddocuments2 E2.2 B2.2Find thename of anelectronicbookField search Generic querysearchClusteredretrievalresultsFieldedquerySummary ofeachdatabaseTable ofcontentsnavigation248make our results robust.
Here is an example forsituation1-task1.3.2 Research Problem 2  (Future Work)In order to guide the presentation of specificsupport techniques during the information seekingprocess, we need to specify an interactionstructure.
This interaction structure is equivalentto a dialogue manager, and can be used to controlthe interactions between the system and the user.We will employ the idea of interaction structuredeveloped in the MERIT system (Belkin, 1995).This structure models human-computer interactionas dialogues and particular dialogue structures areassociated with different ISSs.
This structure willbe incorporated into the system at the userinterface level and act as the dialogue manager.3.3 Research Problem 3 (Future Work)SYSTEMThe integrated system will allow the user to use avariety of ISSs and to seamlessly switch from oneISS to another in the information-seeking process.The user will be able to choose which ISS to useat any time.
ISSs will be classified according tothe goal of the interaction, the topic or task, andthe information-seeking stage, etc.
The systemshould be able to suggest to the user appropriateISSs at the appropriate times, given the currentstate of the information- seeking process.HYPOTHESISHypothesis 5: The integrated system purposelydesigned for supporting both scanning andsearching is more effective in supporting tasksrequiring scanning and searching than the genericbaseline system.EXPERIMENTAL DESIGNThis will be a within-subject experimental design.The subjects will search the integrated system andthen the baseline system.
The experiment will bereplicated by changing the order of the systems.4 ConclusionOur aim is to contribute to the field of interactiveinformation retrieval drawing attention to the userinterface design and HCI.
The systems in researchproblem 1 have been implemented and the userstudies were conducted.
Future work will focus onthe interaction structure and construction andtesting of the integrated system.
Through this wehope to improve information retrieval and human-computer interaction.ReferencesBelkin, N. J., Marchetti, P. G., & Cool, C.BRAQUE: Design of an interface to supportuser interaction in information retrieval.
1993.Information Processing & management, 29(3):325-344.Belkin, N.J., Cool, C., Stein, A., Theil, U., Cases,scripts and information seeking strategies: on thedesign of interactive information retrievalsystems.
1995.
Expert Systems with Applications,9(3): 379-395.Belkin, N. J.
Intelligent Information Retrieval:Whose Intelligence?
1996.
In Proceedings of theFifth International Symposium for InformationScience (ISI-96), 25-31.Borlund,P.
& Ingwerson, P. The developmentof a method for the evaluation of interactiveinformation retrieval systems.
1997.
Journal ofDocumentation, 53(3): 225-250.GUTENBERG.
http://www.gutenberg.org/HARD.
http://projects.ldc.upenn.edu/HARD/LEMUR.
http://www.lemurproject.org/Oddy, R.N.
Information retrieval throughman-machine dialogue.
1977.
Journal ofDocumentation,33(1): 1-14.Xie, H. Shifts of interactive intentions andinformation-seeking strategies in interactiveinformation retrieval.
2000.
Journal of theAmerican Society for Information Science, 51(9):841-857.Topic: As a graduate student, you areasked to write an essay about air pollutionfor one of your courses.
You are supposedto get  information you need from a systemthat is composed of several databases.Each database has lots of documents on avariety of topics.
You believe it would beinteresting to discover factors that cause airpollution, but you have no idea whichdatabases are good on this topic.Task: Please find out which databases aregood for this particular topic, and rank thedatabases in order of likelihood of beinggood.
Put your answer in the given space.249
