Proceedings of the Human Language Technology Conference of the North American Chapter of the ACL, pages 121?124,New York, June 2006. c?2006 Association for Computational LinguisticsComputational Modelling of Structural Priming in DialogueDavid Reitter, Frank Keller, Johanna D. Mooredreitter | keller | jmoore @ inf.ed.ac.ukSchool of InformaticsUniversity of EdinburghUnited KingdomAbstractSyntactic priming effects, modelled as in-crease in repetition probability shortly af-ter a use of a syntactic rule, have thepotential to improve language processingcomponents.
We model priming of syn-tactic rules in annotated corpora of spo-ken dialogue, extending previous workthat was confined to selected construc-tions.
We find that speakers are more re-ceptive to priming from their interlocutorin task-oriented dialogue than in spona-neous conversation.
Low-frequency rulesare more likely to show priming.1 IntroductionCurrent dialogue systems overlook an interestingfact of language-based communication.
Speakerstend to repeat their linguistic decisions rather thanmaking them from scratch, creating entrainmentover time.
Repetition is evident not just on the ob-vious lexical level: syntactic choices depend on pre-ceding ones in a way that can be modelled and, ul-timately, be leveraged in parsing and language gen-eration.
The statistical analysis in this paper aims tomake headway towards such a model.Recently, priming phenomena1 have been ex-ploited to aid automated processing, for instance inautomatic speech recognition using cache models,but only recently have attempts been made at using1The term priming refers to a process that influences lin-guistic decision-making.
An instance of priming occurs when asyntactic structure or lexical item giving evidence of a linguisticchoice (prime) influences the recipient to make the same deci-sion, i.e.
re-use the structure, at a later choice-point (target).them in parsing (Charniak and Johnson, 2005).
Innatural language generation, repetition can be usedto increase the alignment of human and computers.A surface-level approach is possible by biasing then-gram language model used to select the outputstring from a variety of possible utterances (Brock-mann et al, 2005).Priming effects are common and well known.
Forinstance, speakers access lexical items more quicklyafter a semantically or phonologically similar prime.Recent work demonstrates large effects for partic-ular synonymous alternations (e.g., active vs. pas-sive voice) using traditional laboratory experimentswith human subjects (Bock, 1986; Branigan et al,2000).
In this study, we look at the effect from acomputational perspective, that is, we assume someform of parsing and syntax-driven generation com-ponents.
While previous studies singled out syntac-tic phenomena, we assume a phrase-structure gram-mar where all syntactic rules may receive priming.We use large-scale corpora, which reflect the reali-ties of natural interaction, where limited control ex-ists over syntax and the semantics of the utterances.Thus, we quantify priming for the general case inthe realistic setting provided by corpus based exper-iments.
As a first hypothesis, we predict that after a asyntactic rule occurs, it is more likely to be repeatedshortly than a long time afterwards.From a theoretical perspective, priming opens apeephole into the architecture of the human lan-guage faculty.
By identifying units in which prim-ing occurs, we can pinpoint the structures used inprocessing.
Also, priming may help explain the easewith which humans engange in conversations.This study is interested in the differences relevantto systems implementing language-based human-121computer interaction.
Often, HCI is a means foruser and system to jointly plan or carry out a task.Thus, we look at repetition effects in task-orienteddialogue.
A recent psychological perspective mod-els Interactive Alignment between speakers (Picker-ing and Garrod, 2004), where mutual understand-ing about task and situation depends on lower-levelpriming effects.
Under the model, we expect prim-ing effects to be stronger when a task requires high-level alignment of situation models.2 Method2.1 Dialogue typesWe examined two corpora.
Switchboard con-tains 80,000 utterances of spontaneous spoken con-versations over the telephone among randomlypaired, North American speakers, syntactically an-notated with phrase-structure grammar (Marcuset al, 1994).
The HCRC Map Task corpus comprisesmore than 110 dialogues with a total of 20, 400 ut-terances (Anderson et al, 1991).
Like Switchboard,HCRC Map Task is a corpus of spoken, two-persondialogue in English.
However, Map Task containstask-oriented dialogue: interlocutors work togetherto achieve a task as quickly and efficiently as pos-sible.
Subjects were asked to give each other direc-tions with the help of a map.
The interlocutors are inthe same room, but have separate, slightly differentmaps and are unable to see each other?s maps.2.2 Syntactic repetitionsBoth corpora are annotated with phrase structuretrees.
Each tree was converted into the set of phrasestructure productions that license it.
This allows usto identify the repeated use of rules.
Structural prim-ing would predict that a rule (target) occurs moreoften shortly after a potential prime of the same rulethan long afterwards ?
any repetition at great dis-tance is seen as coincidental.
Therefore, we can cor-relate the probability of repetition with the elapsedtime (DIST) between prime and target.We considered very pair of two equal syntacticrules up to a predefined maximal distance to be apotential case of priming-enhanced production.
Ifwe consider priming at distances 1 .
.
.
n, each ruleinstance produces up to n data points.
Our binaryresponse variable indicates whether there is a primefor the target between n ?
0.5 and n + 0.5 secondsbefore the target.
As a prime, we see the invocationof the same rule.
Syntactic repetitions resulting fromlexical repetition and repetitions of unary rules areexcluded.
We looked for repetitions within windows(DIST) of n = 15 seconds (Section 3.1).Without priming, one would expect that there is aconstant probability of syntactic repetition, no mat-ter the distance between prime and target.
The anal-ysis tries to reject this null hypothesis and show acorrelation of the effect size with the type of corpusused.
We expect to see the syntactic priming effectfound experimentally should translate to more casesfor shorter repetition distances, since priming effectsusually decay rapidly (Branigan et al, 1999).The target utterance is included as a random fac-tor in our model, grouping all 15 measurements ofall rules of an utterance as repeated measurements,since they depend on the same target rule occurrenceor at least on other other rules in the utterance, andare, thus, partially inter-dependent.We distinguish production-production primingwithin (PP) and comprehension-production primingbetween speakers (CP), encoded in the factor ROLE.Models were estimated on joint data sets derivedfrom both corpora, with a factor SOURCE includedto discriminate the two dialogue types.Additionally, we build a model estimating the ef-fect of the raw frequency of a particular syntacticrule on the priming effect (FREQ).
This is of par-ticular interest for priming in applications, where astatistical model will, all other things equal, preferthe more frequent linguistic choice; recall for com-peting low-frequency rules will be low.2.3 Generalized Linear Mixed EffectRegressionIn this study, we built generalized linear mixed ef-fects regression models (GLMM).
In all cases, a ruleinstance target is counted as a repetition at distanced iff there is an utterance prime which contains thesame rule, and prime and target are d units apart.GLMMs with a logit-link function are a form of lo-gistic regression.22We trained our models using Penalized Quasi-Likelihood(Venables and Ripley, 2002).
We will not generally give classi-calR2 figures, as this metric is not appropriate to such GLMMs.The below experiments were conducted on a sample of 250,000122SWBD PP MT PP MT CP?0.10?0.050.000.050.100.150.20Switchboard Map TaskPP PP CPCP***----0 5 10 150.0100.0120.0140.0160.0180.020distance: Temporal Distance between prime and target (seconds)p(prime=target|target,distance)Map Task:production-productionSwitchboard:production-productionMap Task:comprehension-productionSwitchboard:comprehension-productionFigure 1: Left: Estimated priming strength (repetition probability decay rate) for Switchboard and MapTask, for within-speaker (PP) and between-speaker (CP) priming.
Right: Fitted model for the developmentof repetition probability (y axis) over time (x axis, in seconds).
Here, decay (slope) is the relevant factor forpriming strength, as shown on the left.
These are derived from models without FREQ.Regression allows us not only to show that prim-ing exists, but it allows us to predict the decline ofrepetition probability with increasing distance be-tween prime and target and depending on other vari-ables.
If we see priming as a form of pre-activationof syntactic nodes, it indicates the decay rate of pre-activation.
Our method quantifies priming and cor-relates the effect with secondary factors.3 Results3.1 Task-oriented and spontaneous dialogueStructural repetition between speakers occured inboth corpora and its probability decreases logarith-mically with the distance between prime and target.Figure 1 provides the model for the influenceof the four factorial combinations of ROLE andSOURCE on priming (left) and the development ofrepetition probability at increasing distance (right).SOURCE=Map Task has an interaction effect on thepriming decay ln(DIST), both for PP priming (?
=?0.024, t = ?2.0, p < 0.05) and for CP priming(?
= ?0.059, t = ?4.0, p < 0.0005).
(Lower coef-ficients indicate more decay, hence more priming.
)data points per corpus.In both corpora, we find positive priming effects.However, PP priming is stronger, and CP priming ismuch stronger in Map Task.The choice of corpus exhibits a marked interac-tion with priming effect.
Spontaneous conversationshows significantly less priming than task-orienteddialogue.
We believe this is not a side-effect of vary-ing grammar size or a different syntactic entropy inthe two types of dialogue, since we examine the de-cay of repetition probability with increasing distance(interactions with DIST), and not the overall proba-bility of chance repetition (intercepts / main effectsexcept DIST).3.2 Frequency effectsAn additional model was built which includedln(FREQ) as a predictor that may interact with theeffect coefficient for ln(DIST).ln(FREQ) is inversely correlated withthe priming effect (Paraphrase: ?lnDist =?1.05, ?lnDist:lnFreq = 0.54, Map Task:?lnDist = ?2.18, ?lnDist:lnFreq = 0.35, allp < 0.001).
Priming weakens with higher(logarithmic) frequency of a syntactic rule.1234 DiscussionEvidence from Wizard-of-Oz experiments (with sys-tems simulated by human operators) have shownthat users of dialogue systems strongly align theirsyntax with that of a (simulated) computer (Brani-gan et al, 2003).
Such an effect can be leveragedin an application, provided there is a priming modelinterfacing syntactic processing.We found evidence of priming in general, that is,when we assume priming of each phrase structurerule.
The priming effects decay quickly and non-linearly, which means that a dialogue system wouldbest only take a relatively short preceding contextinto account, e.g., the previous few utterances.An important consideration in the context of di-alogue systems is whether user and system collab-orate on solving a task, such as booking tickets orretrieving information.
Here, syntactic priming be-tween human speakers is strong, so a system shouldimplement it.
In other situations, systems do nothave to use a unified syntactic architecture for pars-ing and generation, but bias their output on previoussystem utterances, and possibly improve parsing bylooking at previously recognized inputs.The fact that priming is more pronounced within(PP) a speaker suggests that optimizing parsing andgeneration separately is the most promising avenuein either type of dialogue system.One explanation for this lies in a reduced cog-nitive load of spontaneous, everyday conversation.Consequently, the more accessible, highly-frequentrules prime less.In task-oriented dialogue, speakers need to pro-duce a common situation model.
Interactive Align-ment Model argues that this process is aided by syn-tactic priming.
In support of this model, we findmore priming in task-oriented dialogue.35 ConclusionsSyntactic priming effects are reliably present in di-alogue even in computational models where the fullrange of syntactic rules is considered instead of se-lected constructions with known strong priming.This is good news for dialogue systems, whichtend to be task-oriented.
Linguistically motivated3For a more detailed analysis from the perspective of inter-active alignment, see Reitter et al (2006).systems can possibly exploit the user?s tendency torepeat syntactic structures by anticipating repetition.Future systems may also align their output with theirrecognition capabilities and actively align with theuser to signal understanding.
Parsers and realizers innatural language generation modules may make themost of priming if they respect important factors thatinfluence priming effects, such as task-orientation ofthe dialogue and frequency of the syntactic rule.AcknowledgementsThe authors would like to thank Amit Dubey, Roger Levy andMartin Pickering.
The first author?s work is supported by a grantfrom the Edinburgh Stanford Link.ReferencesA.
Anderson, M. Bader, E. Bard, E. Boyle, G. M. Doherty,S.
Garrod, S. Isard, J. Kowtko, J. McAllister, J. Miller,C.
Sotillo, H. Thompson, and R. Weinert.
1991.
The HCRCMap Task corpus.
Language and Speech, 34(4):351?366.J.
Kathryn Bock.
1986.
Syntactic persistence in language pro-duction.
Cognitive Psychology, 18:355?387.Holly P. Branigan, Martin J. Pickering, and Alexandra A. Cle-land.
1999.
Syntactic priming in language production: Ev-idence for rapid decay.
Psychonomic Bulletin and Review,6(4):635?640.Holly P. Branigan, Martin J. Pickering, and Alexandra A. Cle-land.
2000.
Syntactic co-ordination in dialogue.
Cognition,75:B13?25.Holly P. Branigan, Martin J. Pickering, Jamie Pearson, Janet F.McLean, and Clifford Nass.
2003.
Syntactic alignment be-tween computers and people: the role of belief about mentalstates.
In Proceedings of the Twenty-fifth Annual Conferenceof the Cognitive Science Society.Carsten Brockmann, Amy Isard, Jon Oberlander, and MichaelWhite.
2005.
Modelling alignment for affective dialogue.
InWorkshop on Adapting the Interaction Style to Affective Fac-tors at the 10th International Conference on User Modeling(UM-05).
Edinburgh, UK.Eugene Charniak and Mark Johnson.
2005.
Coarse-to-fine n-best parsing and MaxEnt discriminative reranking.
In Proc.43th ACL.M.
Marcus, G. Kim, M. Marcinkiewicz, R. MacIntyre, A. Bies,M.
Ferguson, K. Katz, and B. Schasberger.
1994.
The Penntreebank: Annotating predicate argument structure.
In Proc.ARPA Human Language Technology Workshop.Martin J. Pickering and Simon Garrod.
2004.
Toward a mech-anistic psychology of dialogue.
Behavioral and Brain Sci-ences, 27:169?225.David Reitter, Johanna D. Moore, and Frank Keller.
2006.
Prim-ing of syntactic rules in task-oriented dialogue and sponta-neous conversation.
In Proceedings of the 28th Annual Con-ference of the Cognitive Science Society.William N. Venables and Brian D. Ripley.
2002.
Modern Ap-plied Statistics with S. Fourth Edition.
Springer.124
