Proceedings of the Human Language Technology Conference of the North American Chapter of the ACL, pages 169?172,New York, June 2006. c?2006 Association for Computational LinguisticsIlluminating Trouble Tickets with Sublanguage TheorySvetlana Symonenko, Steven Rowe, Elizabeth D. LiddyCenter for Natural Language ProcessingSchool Of Information StudiesSyracuse UniversitySyracuse, NY  13244{ssymonen, sarowe, liddy}@syr.eduAbstractA study was conducted to explore the poten-tial of Natural Language Processing (NLP)-based knowledge discovery approaches forthe task of representing and exploiting thevital information contained in field service(trouble) tickets for a large utility provider.Analysis of a subset of tickets, guided bysublanguage theory, identified linguistic pat-terns, which were translated into rule-basedalgorithms for automatic identification oftickets?
discourse structure.
The subsequentdata mining experiments showed promisingresults, suggesting that sublanguage is an ef-fective framework for the task of discoveringthe historical and predictive value of troubleticket data.1 IntroductionCorporate information systems that manage cus-tomer reports of problems with products or ser-vices have become common nowadays.
Yet, thevast amount of data accumulated by these systemsremains underutilized for the purposes of gainingproactive, adaptive insights into companies?
busi-ness operations.Unsurprising, then, is an increased interest byorganizations in knowledge mining approaches tomaster this information for quality assurance orCustomer Relationship Management (CRM) pur-poses.
Recent commercial developments includepattern-based extraction of important entities andrelationships in the automotive domain (Attensity,2003) and text mining applications in the aviationdomain (Provalis, 2005).This paper describes an exploratory feasibilitystudy conducted for a large utility provider.
Thecompany was interested in knowledge discoveryapproaches applicable to the data aggregated by itsEmergency Control System (ECS) in the form offield service tickets.
When a ?problem?
in thecompany?s electric, gas or steam distribution sys-tem is reported to the corporate Call Center, a newticket is created.
A typical ticket contains theoriginal report of the problem and steps taken tofix it.
An operator also assigns a ticket an OriginalTrouble Type, which can be changed later, as addi-tional information clarifies the nature of the prob-lem.
The last Trouble Type assigned to a ticketbecomes its Actual Trouble Type.Each ticket combines structured and unstruc-tured data.
The structured portion comes from sev-eral internal corporate information systems.
Theunstructured portion is entered by the operator whoreceives information over the phone from a personreporting a problem or a field worker fixing it.
Thisfree text constitutes the main material for theanalysis, currently limited to known-item searchusing keywords and a few patterns.
The companymanagement grew dissatisfied with such an ap-proach as time-consuming and, likely, missing outon emergent threats and opportunities or discover-ing them too late.
Furthermore, this approach lacksthe ability to knit facts together across troubletickets, except for grouping them by date or grossattributes, such as Trouble Types.
The companymanagement felt the need for a system, which,based on the semantic analysis of ticket texts,would not only identify items of interest at a moregranular level, such as events, people, locations,dates, relationships, etc., but would also enable thediscovery of unanticipated associations and trends.The feasibility study aimed to determinewhether NLP-based approaches could deal with169such homely, ungrammatical texts and then to ex-plore various knowledge mining techniques thatwould meet the client?s needs.
Initial analysis of asample of data suggested that the goal could beeffectively accomplished by looking at the datafrom the perspective of sublanguage theory.The novelty of our work is in combining sym-bolic NLP and statistical approaches, guided bysublanguage theory, which results in an effectivemethodology and solution for such data.This paper describes analyses and experimentsconducted and discusses the potential of the sub-language approach for the task of tapping into thevalue of trouble ticket data.2 Related ResearchSublanguage theory posits that texts producedwithin a certain discourse community exhibitshared, often unconventional, vocabulary andgrammar (Grishman and Kittredge, 1986; Harris,1991).
Sublanguage theory has been successfullyapplied in biomedicine (Friedman et al, 2002;Liddy et al, 1993), software development (Etzkornet al, 1999), weather forecasting (Somers, 2003),and other domains.
Trouble tickets exhibit a spe-cial discourse structure, combining system-generated, structured data and free-text sections; aspecial lexicon, full of acronyms, abbreviationsand symbols; and consistent ?bending?
of grammarrules in favor of speed writing (Johnson, 1992;Marlow, 2004).
Our work has also been informedby the research on machine classification tech-niques (Joachims, 2002; Yilmazel et al, 2005).3 Development of the sublanguage modelThe client provided us with a dataset of 162,105trouble tickets dating from 1995 to 2005.
An im-portant part of data preprocessing included token-izing text strings.
The tokenizer was adapted to fitthe special features of the trouble tickets?
vocabu-lary and grammar: odd punctuation; name variants;domain-specific terms, phrases, and abbreviations.Development of a sublanguage model beganwith manual annotation and analysis of a sample of73 tickets, supplemented with n-gram analysis andcontextual mining for particular terms and phrases.The analysis aimed to identify consistent linguisticpatterns: domain-specific vocabulary (abbrevia-tions, special terms); major ticket sections; andsemantic components (people, organizations, loca-tions, events, important concepts).The analysis resulted in compiling the core do-main lexicon, which includes acronyms for Trou-ble Types (SMH - smoking manhole); departments(EDS - Electric Distribution); locations (S/S/C -South of the South Curb); special terms (PACM -Possible Asbestos Containing Material); abbrevia-tions (BSMNT - basement, F/UP - follow up); andfixed phrases (NO LIGHTS, WHITE HAT).
Origi-nally, the lexicon was intended to support the de-velopment of the sublanguage grammar, but, sinceno such lexicon existed in the company, it can nowenhance the corporate knowledge base.Review of the data revealed a consistent struc-ture for trouble ticket discourse.
A typical ticket(Fig.1) consists of several text blocks ending withan operator?s ID (12345 or JS).
A ticket usuallyopens with a complaint (lines 001-002) that pro-vides the original account of a problem and oftencontains: reporting entity (CONST MGMT), time-stamp, short problem description, location.
Fieldwork (lines 009-010) normally includes the nameof the assigned employee, new information aboutthe problem, steps needed or taken, complications,etc.
Lexical choices are limited and section-specific; for instance, reporting a problem typicallyopens with REPORTS, CLAIMS, or CALLED.Figure 1.
A sample trouble ticketThe resulting typical structure of a trouble ticket(Table 1) includes sections distinct in their contentand data format.Section Name DataComplaint Original report about the problem, Free-textOffice ActionOffice NoteScheduling actions, StructuredtextField Report Field work, Free-textJob ReferralJob CompletionJob CancelledReferring actions, Closing actions,Structured textTable 1.
Sample discourse structure of a ticket.170Analysis also identified recurring semanticcomponents: people, locations, problem, time-stamp, equipment, urgency, etc.
The annotation oftickets by sections (Fig.2) and semantic compo-nents was validated with domain experts.Figure 2.
Annotated ticket sections.The analysis became the basis for developinglogical rules for automatic identification of ticketsections and selected semantic components.Evaluation of system performance on 70 manuallyannotated and 80 unseen tickets demonstrated highaccuracy in automatic section identification, withan error rate of only 1.4%, and no significant dif-ference between results on the annotated vs. un-seen tickets.
Next, the automatic annotator was runon the entire corpus of 162,105 tickets.
The anno-tated dataset was used in further experiments.Identification of semantic components bringstogether variations in names and spellings under asingle ?normalized?
term, thus streamlining andexpanding coverage of subsequent data analysis.For example, strings UNSAFE LADDER, HAZ,(hazard) and PACM (Possible Asbestos ContainingMaterial) are tagged and, thus, can be retrieved ashazard indicators.
?Normalization?
is also appliedto name variants for streets and departments.The primary value of the annotation is in effec-tive extraction of structured information from theseunstructured free texts.
Such information can nextbe fed into a database and integrated with otherdata attributes for further analysis.
This will sig-nificantly expand the range and the coverage ofdata analysis techniques, currently employed bythe company.The high accuracy in automatic identification ofticket sections and semantic components can, to asignificant extent, be explained by the relativelylimited number and high consistency of the identi-fied linguistic constructions, which enabled theirsuccessful translation into a set of logical rules.This also supported our initial view of the tickettexts as exhibiting sublanguage characteristics,such as: distinct shared common vocabulary andconstructions; extensive use of special symbols andabbreviations; and consistent bending of grammarin favor of shorthand.
The sublanguage approachthus enables the system to recognize effectively anumber of implicit semantic relationships in texts.4 Leveraging pattern-based approacheswith statistical techniquesNext, we assessed the potential of some knowledgediscovery approaches to meet company needs andfit the nature of the data.4.1 Identifying Related TicketsWhen several reports relate to the same or recur-ring trouble, or to multiple problems affecting thesame area, a note is made in each ticket, e.g.
:RELATED TO THE 21 ON E38ST TICKET 9999Each of these related tickets usually containssome aspects of the trouble (Figure 3), but currentanalytic approaches never brought them together tocreate a complete picture of the problem, whichmay provide for useful associations.
Semanticcomponent related-ticket is expressed through pre-dictable linguistic patterns that can be used as lin-guistic clues for automatic grouping of relatedtickets for further analysis.Ticket 1..REPORTS FDR-26M49 OPENED AUTO @ 16:54..OTHER TICKETS RELATED TO THIS JOB========= TICKET 2 =========== TICKET 3 =Ticket 2.. CEILING IS IN VERY BAD CONDITION AND INDANGER OFCOLLAPSE.
?Ticket 3..
CONTRACTOR IS DOING FOUNDATIONWATERPROOFINGWORK ...Figure 3.
Related tickets4.2 Classification experimentsThe analysis of Trouble Type distribution revealed,much to the company?s surprise, that 18% of tick-171ets had the Miscellaneous (MSE) Type and, thus,remained out-of-scope for any analysis of associa-tions between Trouble Types and semantic compo-nents that would reveal trends.
A number ofreasons may account for this, including uniquenessof a problem or human error.
Review of a sampleof MSE tickets showed that some of them shouldhave a more specific Trouble Type.
For example(Figure 4), both tickets, each initially assigned theMSE type, describe the WL problem, but only oneticket later receives this code.Ticket 1 Original Code="MSE" Actual Code="WL"WATER LEAKING INTO TRANSFORMER BOX INBASEMENT OF DORM; ?Ticket 2 Original Code ="MSE" Actual Code ="MSE"?
WATER IS FLOWING INTO GRADING WHICHLEADS TO ELECTRICIAL VAULT.Figure 4.
Complaint sections, WL-problemResults of n-gram analyses (Liddy et al, 2006),supported our hypothesis that different TroubleTypes have distinct linguistic features.
Next, weinvestigated if knowledge of these type-dependentlinguistic patterns can help with assigning specificTypes to MSE tickets.
The task was conceptualizedas a multi-label classification, where the system istrained on complaint sections of tickets belongingto specific Trouble Types and then tested on ticketsbelonging either to these Types or to the MSEType.
Experiments were run using the ExtendedLibSVM tool (Chang and Lin, 2001), modified foranother project of ours (Yilmazel et al, 2005).Promising results of classification experiments,with precision and recall for known Trouble Typesexceeding 95% (Liddy et al, 2006), can, to someextent, be attributed to the fairly stable and distinctlanguage ?
a sublanguage ?
of the trouble tickets.5 Conclusion and Future WorkInitial exploration of the Trouble Tickets revealedtheir strong sublanguage characteristics, such as:wide use of domain-specific terminology, abbre-viations and phrases; odd grammar rules favoringshorthand; and special discourse structure reflec-tive of the communicative purpose of the tickets.The identified linguistic patterns are sufficientlyconsistent across the data, so that they can be de-scribed algorithmically to support effective auto-mated identification of ticket sections and semanticcomponents.Experimentation with classification algorithmsshows that applying the sublanguage theoreticalframework to the task of mining trouble ticket dataappears to be a promising approach to the problemof reducing human error and, thus, expanding thescope of data amenable to data mining techniquesthat use Trouble Type information.Our directions for future research include ex-perimenting with other machine learning tech-niques, utilizing the newly-gained knowledge ofthe tickets?
sublanguage grammar, as well as test-ing sublanguage analysis technology on other typesof field service reports.6 ReferencesImproving Product Quality Using Technician Com-ments.2003.
Attensity.Chang, C.-C. and Lin, C.-J.
2001.
LIBSVMhttp://www.csie.ntu.edu.tw/~cjlin/libsvm.Etzkorn, L. H., Davis, C. G., and Bowen, L. L. 1999.The Language of Comments in Computer Software:A Sublanguage of English.
Journal of Pragmatics,33(11): 1731-1756.Friedman, C., Kraa, P., and Rzhetskya, A.
2002.
TwoBiomedical Sublanguages:  a Description Based onthe Theories of Zellig Harris.
Journal of BiomedicalInformatics, 35(4): 222-235.Grishman, R. and Kittredge, R. I.
(Eds.).
1986.
Analyz-ing Language in Restricted Domains: SublanguageDescription and Processing.Harris, Z.
A theory of language and information: amathematical approach.
(1991).Joachims, T. Learning  to Classify Text using SupportVector Machines: Ph.D. Thesis  (2002).RFC 1297 - NOC Internal Integrated Trouble TicketSystem Functional Specification Wishlist.1992.http://www.faqs.org/rfcs/rfc1297.html.Liddy, E. D., Jorgensen, C. L., Sibert, E. E., and Yu, E.S.
1993.
A Sublanguage Approach to Natural Lan-guage Processing for an Expert System.
InformationProcessing & Management, 29(5): 633-645.Liddy, E. D., Symonenko, S., and Rowe, S. 2006.
Sub-language Analysis Applied to Trouble Tickets.
19thInternational FLAIRS Conference.Marlow, D. 2004.
Investigating Technical Trouble Tick-ets: An Analysis of a Homely CMC Genre.
HICSS'37.Application of Statistical Content Analysis Text Miningto Airline Safety Reports.2005.
Provalis.Somers, H. 2003.
Sublanguage.
In H. Somers (Ed.
),Computers and Translation: A translator's guide.Yilmazel, O., Symonenko, S., Balasubramanian, N., andLiddy, E. D. 2005.
Leveraging One-Class SVM andSemantic Analysis to Detect Anomalous Content.ISI/IEEE'05, Atlanta, GA.172
