Proceedings of the Human Language Technology Conference of the NAACL, Companion Volume, pages 307?308,New York City, June 2006. c?2006 Association for Computational Linguistics5.
Inductive Semi-supervised Learning Methods for Natural Language ProcessingAnoop Sarkar and Gholamreza Haffari, Simon Fraser UniversitySupervised machine learning methods which learn from labelled (or annotated) data are now widelyused in many different areas of Computational Linguistics and Natural Language Processing.
There arewidespread data annotation endeavours but they face problems: there are a large number of languages andannotation is expensive, while at the same time raw text data is plentiful.
Semi-supervised learning methodsaim to close this gap.The last 6-7 years have seen a surge of interest in semi-supervised methods in the machine learningand NLP communities focused on the one hand on analysing the situations in which unlabelled data can beuseful, and on the other hand, providing feasible learning algorithms.This recent research has resulted in a wide variety of interesting methods which are different with respectto the assumptions they make about the learning task.
In this tutorial, we survey recent semi-supervisedlearning methods, discuss assumptions behind various approaches, and show how some of these methodshave been applied to NLP tasks.5.1 Tutorial Outline1.
Introduction?
Spectrum of fully supervised to unsupervised learning, clustering vs. classifiers or model-based learning?
Inductive vs. Transductive learning?
Generative vs. Discriminative learning2.
Mixtures of Generative Models?
Analysis?
Stable Mixing of Labelled and Unlabelled data?
Text Classification by EM3.
Multiple view Learning?
Co-training algorithm?
Yarowsky algorithm?
Co-EM algorithm?
Co-Boost algorithm?
Agreement Boost algorithm?
Multi-task Learning4.
Semi-supervised Learning for Structured Labels (Discriminative models)?
Simple case: Random Walk?
Potential extension to Structured SVM5.
NLP tasks and semi-supervised learning?
Using EM-based methods to combine labelled and unlabelled data?
When does it work?
Some negative examples of semi-supervised learning in NLP?
Examples of various NLP tasks amenable to semi-supervised learning: chunking, parsing,word-sense disambiguation, etc.?
Semi-supervised methods proposed within NLP and their relation to machine learningmethods covered in this tutorial?
Semi-supervised learning for structured models relevant for NLP such as sequence learningand parsing?
Semi-supervised learning for domain adaptation in NLP3075.2 Target AudienceThe target audience is expected to be researchers in computational linguistics and natural language process-ing who wish to explore methods that will possibly allow learning from smaller size labelled datasets byexploiting unlabelled data.
In particular those who are interested in NLP research into new languages ordomains for which resources do not currently exist, or in novel NLP tasks that do not have existing largeamounts of annotated data.
We assume some familiarity with commonly used supervised learning methodsin NLP.Anoop Sarkar is an Assistant Professor in the School of Computing Science at Simon Fraser University.
Hisresearch has been focused on machine learning algorithms applied to the study of natural language.
He isespecially interested in algorithms that combine labeled and unlabeled data and learn new information withweak supervision.
Anoop received his PhD from the Department of Computer and Information Science atthe University of Pennsylvania, with Prof. Aravind Joshi was his advisor.
His PhD dissertation was entitledCombining Labeled and Unlabeled Data in Statistical Natural Language Parsing.
A full list of papers isavailable at http://www.cs.sfu.ca/ anoop.
His email address is anoop@cs.sfu.caGholamreza Haffari is a second year PhD student in the School of Computing Science at Simon FraserUniversity.
He is working under the supervision of Prof. Sarkar towards a thesis on semi-supervised learningfor structured models in NLP.
His home page is http://www.cs.sfu.ca/ ghaffar1, and his email address isghaffar1@cs.sfu.ca308
