Proceedings of the Human Language Technology Conference of the North American Chapter of the ACL, pages 45?48,New York, June 2006. c?2006 Association for Computational LinguisticsA Finite-State Model of Georgian Verbal MorphologyOlga GurevichDepartment of LinguisticsUniversity of California, Berkeley3834 23rd StreetSan Francisco, CA 94114olya.gurevich@gmail.comAbstractGeorgian is a less commonly studied lan-guage with complex, non-concatenativeverbal morphology.
We present a compu-tational model for generation and recogni-tion of Georgian verb conjugations, rely-ing on the analysis of Georgian verb struc-ture as a word-level template.
The modelcombines a set of finite-state transducerswith a default inheritance mechanism.11 IntroductionGeorgian morphology is largely synthetic, withcomplex verb forms that can often express the mean-ing of a whole sentence.
Descriptions of Georgianverbal morphology emphasize the large number ofinflectional categories; the large number of elementsthat a verb form can contain; the inter-dependenciesin the occurrence of various elements; and the largenumber of regular, semi-regular, and irregular pat-terns of formation of verb inflections (cf.
Hewitt1995).
All of these factors make computationalmodeling of Georgian morphology a rather dauntingtask.In this paper, we propose a computational modelfor parsing and generation of a subset of Georgianverbs that relies on a templatic, word-based analysisof the verbal system rather than assuming compo-sitional rules for combining individual morphemes.We argue that such a model is viable, extensible, and1This work was in part supported by the Berkeley LanguageCenter.
I?d like to thank Lauri Karttunen for introducing me tofinite-state morphology and providing an updated version of thesoftware, and Shorena Kurtsikidze and Vakhtang Chikovani forhelp with the Georgian data.
All errors are my own.capable of capturing the generalizations inherent inthe Georgian verbal system at various levels of reg-ularity.
To our knowledge, this is the only computa-tional model of the Georgian verb currently in activedevelopment and available to the non-Georgian aca-demic community2.2 Georgian Verbal MorphologyThe Georgian verb forms are made up of severalkinds of morphological elements that recur in dif-ferent formations.
These elements can be formallyidentified in a fairly straightforward fashion; how-ever, their function and distribution defy a simplecompositional analysis but instead are determinedby the larger morphosyntactic and semantic contextsin which the verbs appear (usually tense, aspect, andmood) and the lexical properties of the verbs them-selves.2.1 Verb StructureGeorgian verbs are often divided into four conju-gation classes, based mostly on valency (cf.
Har-ris 1981).
In this brief report, we will concentrateon transitive verbs, although our model can accom-modate all four conjugation types.
Verbs inflectin tense/mood/aspect (TAM) paradigms (simplifiedhere as tenses).
There are a total of 10 actively usedtenses in Modern Georgian, grouped into TAM se-ries as in Table 1.
Knowing the series and tense of averb form is essential for being able to conjugate it.The structure of the verb can be described usingthe following (simplified) template.2See Tandashvili (1999) for an earlier model.
Unfortunately,the information in the available publications does not allow fora meaningful comparison with the present model.45Series Tense 2SGSUBJ:3SGOBJPRESENT xat?-avIMPERFECT xat?-av-diPRES.
SUBJ.
xat?-av-deFUTURE da-xat?-avCONDITIONAL da-xat?-av-diIFUT.
SUBJ.
da-xat?-av-deAORIST da-xat?-eIIAOR.
SUBJ.
da-xat?-oPERFECT da-gi-xat?-av-sIIIPLUPERFECT da-ge-xat?-aTable 1: Tenses of the verb ?to paint?.
Root is in bold.
(Preverb)-(agreement1)-(version)-root-(thematicsuffix)-(tense)-(agreement)The functions of some of the elements are dis-cussed below.
As an illustration, note the formationof the verb xat?va ?paint?
in Table 1.2.2 Lexical and Semi-Regular PatternsThe complexity of the distribution of morphologi-cal elements in Georgian is illustrated by preverbs,thematic suffixes, and tense endings.
The preverbs(a closed class of about 8) indicate perfective aspectand lexical derivations from roots, similar to verbprefixes in Slavic or German.
The association of averb with a particular preverb is lexical and must bememorized.
A preverb appears on forms from theFuture subgroup of series I, and on all forms of se-ries II and III in transitive verbs.
Table 2 demon-strates some of the lexically-dependent morpholog-ical elements, including several different preverbs(row ?Future?
).Similarly, thematic suffixes form a closed classand are lexically associated with verb roots.
Theyfunction as stem formants and distinguish inflec-tional classes.
In transitive verbs, thematic suffixesappear in all series I forms.
Their behavior in otherseries differs by individual suffix: in series II, mostsuffixes disappear, though some seem to leave par-tial ?traces?
(rows ?Present?
and ?Perfect?
in Table2).The next source of semi-regular patterns comesfrom the inflectional endings in the individual tensesand the corresponding changes in some verb roots(row ?Aorist?
in Table 2).Finally, another verb form relevant for learners isthe masdar, or verbal noun.
The masdar may or may?Bring?
?Paint?
?Eat?Present i-gh-eb-s xat?-av-s ch?am-?-sFuture c?amo-i-gh-eb-s da-xat?-av-s she-ch?am-sAorist c?amo-i-gh-o da-xat?-a she-ch?am-aPerfect c?amo-u-gh-ia da-u-xat?-av-s she-u-ch?am-iaMasdar c?amo-gh-eb-a da-xat?-v-a ch?-am-aTable 2: Lexical Variation.
Roots are in bold; lexically vari-able affixes are in italics.OBJSUBJ 1SG 1PL 2SG 2PL 31SG ?
?
g??
g?t v?
?1PL ?
?
g?t g?t v?t2SG m??
gv??
?
?
??
?2PL m?t gv?t ?
?
?t3SG m?
* gv?
* g?
* g?t ?
*3PL m?
** gv?
** g?
** g?
** ?
**Table 3: Subject/Object agreement.
The 3sg and 3pl suffixes,marked by * and **, are tense-dependent.not include the preverb and/or some variation of thethematic suffix (last row in Table 2).2.3 Regular PatternsVerb agreement in Georgian is a completely regu-lar yet not entirely compositional phenomenon.
Averb can mark agreement with both the subject andthe object via a combination of prefixal and suffixalagreement markers, as in Table 3.The distribution and order of attachment of agree-ment affixes has been the subject of much discus-sion in theoretical morphological literature.
To sim-plify matters for the computational model, we as-sume here that the prefixal and suffixal markers at-tach to the verb stem at the same time, as a sortof circumfix, and indicate the combined subject andobject properties of a paradigm cell.Despite the amount of lexical variation, tense for-mation in some instances is also quite regular.
So,the Imperfect and First Subjunctive tenses are regu-larly formed from the Present.
Similarly, the Condi-tional and Future Subjunctive are formed from theFuture.
And for most (though not all) transitiveverbs, the Future is formed from the Present via theaddition of a preverb.Additionally, the number of possible combina-tions of inflectional endings and other irregularitiesis also finite, and some choices tend to predict otherchoices in the paradigm of a given verb.
Georgianverbs can be classified according to several example46paradigms, or inflectional (lexical) classes, similarto the distinctions made in Standard European lan-guages; the major difference is that the number ofclasses is much greater in Georgian.
For instance,Melikishvili (2001) distinguishes over 60 classes, ofwhich 17 are transitive.
While the exact number ofinflectional classes is still in question, the generalexample-based approach seems the only one viablefor Georgian.3 Computational Model3.1 OverviewFinite-state networks are currently one of themost popular methods in computational morphol-ogy.
Many approaches are implemented as two-wayfinite-state transducers (FST) in which each arc cor-responds to a mapping of two elements, for exam-ple a phoneme and its phonetic realization or a mor-pheme and its meaning.
As a result, FST morpholo-gies often assume morpheme-level compositional-ity.
As demonstrated in the previous section, suchassumptions do not serve well to describe the ver-bal morphology of Georgian.
Instead, it can be de-scribed as a series of patterns at various levels ofregularity.
However, compositionality is not a neces-sary assumption: finite-state models are well-suitedfor representing mappings from strings of meaningelements to strings of form elements without neces-sarily pairing them one-to-one.Our model was implemented using the xfst pro-gram included in (Beesley and Karttunen 2003).
Thecore of the model consists of several levels of finite-state transducer (FST) networks such that the resultof compiling a lower-level network serves as input toa higher-level network.
The levels correspond to thedivision of templatic patterns into completely lexical(Level 1) and semi-regular (Level 2).
Level 3 con-tains completely regular patterns that apply to theresults of both Level 1 and Level 2.
The regular-expression patterns at each level are essentially con-straints on the templatic structure of verb forms atvarious levels of generality.
The FST model can beused both for the generation of verbal inflections andfor recognition of complete forms.The input to the model is a set of hand-writtenregular expressions (written as FST patterns) whichidentify the lexically specific information for a rep-resentative of each verb class, as well as the moreregular rules of tense formation.
In addition to divid-ing verb formation patterns into lexical and regular,our model also provides a mechanism for specifyingdefaults and overrides in inflectional markers.
Manyof the tense-formation patterns mentioned above canbe described as defaults with some lexical excep-tions.
In order to minimize the amount of manualentry, we specify the exceptional features at the firstlevel and use the later levels to apply default rules inall other cases.3.2 Level 1: The LexiconThe first level of the FST model contains lexicallyspecific information stored as several complete wordforms for each verb.
In addition to the informationthat is always lexical (such as the root and preverb),this network also contains forms which are excep-tional.
For the most regular verbs, these are: Present,Future, Aorist 2SgSubj, Aorist 3SgSubj, and Per-fect.The inflected forms are represented as two-levelfinite-state arcs, with the verb stem and morphosyn-tactic properties on the upper side, and the inflectedword on the lower side.The forms at Level 1 contain a place holder?+Agr1?
for the prefixal agreement marker, whichis replaced by the appropriate marker in the laterlevels (necessary because the prefixal agreement isbetween the preverb and the root).3.3 Level 2: Semi-regular PatternsThe purpose of Level 2 is to compile inflectionalforms that are dependent on other forms (introducedin Level 1), and to provide default inflections for reg-ular tense formation patterns.An example of the first case is the Conditionaltense, formed predictably from the Future tense.
TheFST algorithm is as follows:?
Compile a network consisting of Future forms.?
Add the appropriate inflectional suffixes.?
Replace the tense property ?+Fut?
with?+Cond?.?
Add the inflectional properties where needed.An example of the second case is the Present3PlSubj suffix, which is -en for most transitive verbs,but -ian for a few others (see Fig.
1).
Xfst provides asimplified feature unification mechanism called flag47Lev.
1 paint+Presxat?-avpaint+Aorda-xat?-aopen+PresPlxsn-ianLev.
2 paint+Past+3Sgxat?-av-dapaint+Pres+3Plxat?-av-endefaultoverriddenLev.
3 paint+3PlSubj+1SgObjm-xat?-av-enopen+3PlSubj+1SgObjm-xsn-ianFigure 1: Verbs ?paint?
and ?open?
at three levels of the model.New information contributed by each form is in bold.diacritics.
Using these flags, we specify exceptionalforms in Level 1, so that default inflections do notapply to them in Level 2.The patterns defined at Level 2 are compiled intoa single network, which serves as input to Level 3.3.4 Level 3: Regular PatternsThe purpose of Level 3 is to affix regular inflection:object and non-3rd person subject agreement.
Asdescribed in section 2, agreement in Georgian is ex-pressed via a combination of a pre-stem affix anda suffix, which are best thought of as attaching si-multaneously and working in tandem to express bothsubject and object agreement.
Thus the compilationof Level 3 consists of several steps, each of whichcorresponds to a paradigm cell.The operation of the model is partially illustratedon forms of the verbs ?paint?
and ?open?
in Figure 1.3.5 Treatment of Lexical ClassesThe input to Level 1 contains a representative foreach lexical class, supplied with a diacritic featureindicating the class number.
Other verbs that belongto those classes could, in principle, be inputted alongwith the class number, and the FST model couldsubstitute the appropriate roots in the process ofcompiling the networks.
However, there are severalchallenges to this straightforward implementation.Verbs belonging to the same class may have dif-ferent preverbs, thus complicating the substitution.For many verbs, tense formation involves stem alter-nations such as syncope or vowel epenthesis, againcomplicating straightforward substitution.
Supple-tion is also quite common in Georgian, requiringcompletely different stems for different tenses.As a result, even for a verb whose lexical class isknown, several pieces of information must be sup-plied to infer the complete inflectional paradigm.The FST substitution mechanisms are fairly re-stricted, and so the compilation of new verbs is donein Java.
The scripts make non-example verbs looklike example verbs in Level 1 of the FST network bycreating the necessary inflected forms, but the hu-man input to the scripts need only include the infor-mation necessary to identify the lexical class of theverb.4 Evaluation and Future WorkAt the initial stages of modeling, we have concen-trated on regular transitive verbs and frequent irreg-ular verbs.
The model currently contains severalverbs from each of the 17 transitive verb classesmentioned in (Melikishvili 2001), and a growingnumber of frequent irregular verbs from differentconjugation classes.
Regular unaccusative, unerga-tive, and indirect verbs will be added in the near fu-ture, with the goal of providing full inflections for200 most frequent Georgian verbs.The model serves as the basis for an onlinelearner?s reference for Georgian conjugations (Gure-vich 2005), which is the only such reference cur-rently available.A drawback of most finite-state models is their in-ability to generalize to novel items the way a humancould.
However, the output of our finite-state modelcould potentially be used to generate training sets forconnectionist or statistical models.ReferencesBeesley, Kenneth and Lauri Karttunen.
2003.
Finite-State Morphology.
Cambridge University Press.Gurevich, Olga.
2005.
Computing non-concatenative morphology: The case of georgian.In LULCL 2006.
Bolzano, Italy.Harris, Alice C. 1981.
Georgian syntax: a study inrelational grammar.
Cambridge University Press.Hewitt, B. G. 1995.
Georgian: a structural refer-ence grammar.
John Benjamins.Melikishvili, Damana.
2001.
Kartuli zmnis ugh-lebis sist?ema [Conjugation system of the Geor-gian verb].
Logos presi.Tandashvili, M. 1999.
Main Principles ofComputer-Aided Modeling, http://titus.uni-frankfurt.de/personal/manana/refeng.htm.
TbilisiHabilitation.48
