Proceedings of the Human Language Technology Conference of the NAACL, Companion Volume, pages 303?304,New York City, June 2006. c?2006 Association for Computational Linguistics3.
Graph-Based Algorithms For Natural Language Processing And Information RetrievalRada Mihalcea, University of North Texas, and Dragomir Radev, University of MichiganGraph theory is a well studied discipline, and so are the fields of natural language processing and in-formation retrieval.
However, most of the times, they are perceived as different disciplines, with differentalgorithms, different applications, and different potential end-users.The goal of this tutorial is to provide an overview of methods and applications in natural languageprocessing and information retrieval that rely on graph-based algorithms.
This will include techniques forgraph traversal, minimum path length, min-cut algorithms, minimum spanning trees, random walks, etc.
andtheir application to information retrieval and Web search, text understanding (word sense disambiguationand semantic classes), parsing, text summarization, keyword extraction, text clustering, and others.3.1 Tutorial Outline1.
Graph-based Algorithms Basics* Vectors, matrices, graphs* Graph representations and notations?
Traversal, min-cut/max-flow, matching* Algorithms for graph traversal* Minimum path length* Minimum spanning trees* Min-cut/max-flow algorithms* Graph-matching algorithms?
Ranking, clustering, learning* Eigenvector analysis* Node-ranking algorithms* Graph-based centrality* Graph-based clustering* Machine learning on graphs2.
Information Retrieval applications* Web-page ranking* Text classification and clustering3.
Natural language processing applications?
Semantics* Word sense disambiguation* Semantic classes* Textual entailment* Sentiment classification?
Syntax, Summarization* Dependency parsing* Prepositional attachment* Keyword extraction* Text summarization3.2 Target AudienceThis tutorial is intended for researchers and practitioners who seek a general understanding of the appli-cation of graph-theoretical representations and algorithms to natural language processing and information303retrieval.
It is introductory in nature, no special knowledge or background is required.Rada Mihalcea is an Assistant Professor of Computer Science at the University of North Texas.
Her researchinterests are in lexical semantics, graph-based algorithms for natural language processing and informationretrieval, minimally supervised natural language learning, and multilingual natural language processing.She has published more than 80 articles in books, journals, and proceedings, in these and related areas.
Sheis the president of the ACL Special Group on the Lexicon (SIGLEX), and a board member for the ACLSpecial Group on Natural Language Learning (SIGNLL).
She serves on the editorial board of the journalof Computational Linguistics, the journal of Language Resources and Evaluations, and the recently estab-lished journal of Interesting Negative Results in Natural Language Processing and Machine Learning.
Herresearch is supported by NSF, Google, and the state of Texas.Dragomir Radev is an Associate Professor of Information, of Computer Science and Engineering, and ofLinguistics at the University of Michigan.
He has a PhD in Computer Science from Columbia University.He has held numerous posts within NAACL and ACL.
He is on the editorial boards of Information Retrievaland the Journal of Artificial Intelligence Research and was recently nominated to the board of the Journalof Natural Language Engineering.
He has co-chaired 5 ACL/NAACL workshops and given 6 tutorials atvenues like SIGIR, AAAI, and RANLP.
Dragomir?s current interests are in text summarization, informationextraction, information retrieval, graph models, semi-supervised learning, and machine translation.
He hasmore than 50 peer-reviewed papers as well as more than 50 talks at various universities and other venues.Dragomir?s work has been funded by NSF, NIH, and ONR.304
