Proceedings of the Human Language Technology Conference of the NAACL, Companion Volume, pages 309?310,New York City, June 2006. c?2006 Association for Computational Linguistics6.
Automatic Semantic Role LabelingScott Wen-tau Yih and Kristina Toutanova, Microsoft ResearchThe goal of semantic role labeling is to map sentences to domain-independent semantic representations,which abstract away from syntactic structure and are important for deep NLP tasks such as question answer-ing, textual entailment, and complex information extraction.
Semantic role labeling has recently receivedsignificant interest in the natural language processing community.
In this tutorial, we will first describe theproblem and history of semantic role labeling, and introduce existing corpora and other related tasks.
Next,we will provide a detailed survey of state-of-the-art machine learning approaches to building a semantic rolelabeling system.
Finally, we will conclude the tutorial by discussing directions for improving semantic rolelabeling systems and their application to other natural language problems.6.1 Tutorial Outline1.
Introduction?
What is semantic role labeling??
Why is SRL important??
Existing corpora: FrameNet & PropBank?
Corpora in development?
Relation to other tasks2.
Survey of Existing SRL Systems?
History of the development of automatic SRL systems?
Pioneering Work?
Basic architecture of a generic SRL system?
Major components?
Machine learning technologies?
CoNLL-04 and CoNLL-05 shared tasks on SRL?
Details of several CoNLL-05 systems?
Overall comparisons of CoNLL-05 systems3.
Analysis of Systems and Future Directions?
Error Analysis?
Influence of parser errors?
Per argument performance?
Directions for improving SRL4.
Applications?
Information Extraction?
Textual Entailment?
Machine Translation6.2 Target AudienceThe main target audience is NLP students and researchers who are interested in learning about semantic rolelabeling, but have not followed all developments in the field.
Additionally, researchers already working onsemantic role labeling should profit from a global view and summary of relevant work.
The tutorial willalso be valuable for researchers working in the related areas of information extraction and spoken languageunderstanding.309Scott Wen-tau Yih received his PhD in Computer Science from the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaignin 2005 and is currently a Post-Doc Researcher in the Machine Learning and Applied Statistics group at Mi-crosoft Research.
His research focuses on different problems in natural language processing and machinelearning, such as information extraction and semantic parsing.
Scott has published several papers on seman-tic role labeling in CoNLL-04&05, COLING-04 and IJCAI-05.
The SRL system he built at UIUC was thebest system in the CoNLL-05 shared task.Kristina Toutanova obtained her PhD in Computer Science from Stanford University in 2005 and joinedMicrosoft Research as a Researcher in the Natural Language Processing group.
Her areas of expertiseinclude semantic role labeling, syntactic parsing, machine learning, and machine translation.
Kristina haspublished two papers on semantic role labeling in CoNLL-05 and ACL-05.
The SRL system she built atStanford was the runner-up system in the CoNLL-05 shared task.310
