Proceedings of the Human Language Technology Conference of the North American Chapter of the ACL, pages 136?143,New York, June 2006. c?2006 Association for Computational LinguisticsUnderstanding Temporal Expressions in EmailsBenjamin Han, Donna Gates and Lori LevinLanguage Technologies InstituteCarnegie Mellon University5000 Forbes Ave, Pittsburgh PA 15213{benhdj|dmg|lsl}@cs.cmu.eduAbstractRecent years have seen increasing re-search on extracting and using temporalinformation in natural language applica-tions.
However most of the works foundin the literature have focused on identi-fying and understanding temporal expres-sions in newswire texts.
In this paperwe report our work on anchoring tempo-ral expressions in a novel genre, emails.The highly under-specified nature of theseexpressions fits well with our constraint-based representation of time, Time Cal-culus for Natural Language (TCNL).
Wehave developed and evaluated a Tempo-ral Expression Anchoror (TEA), and theresult shows that it performs significantlybetter than the baseline, and compares fa-vorably with some of the closely relatedwork.1 IntroductionWith increasing demand from ever more sophisti-cated NLP applications, interest in extracting andunderstanding temporal information from texts hasseen much growth in recent years.
Several workshave addressed the problems of representing tem-poral information in natural language (Setzer, 2001;Hobbs and Pan, 2004; Saur??
et al, 2006), extractingand/or anchoring (normalizing) temporal and eventrelated expressions (Wiebe et al, 1998; Mani andWilson, 2000; Schilder and Habel, 2001; Vazov,2001; Filatova and Hovy, 2001), and discovering theordering of events (Mani et al, 2003).
Most of theseworks have focused on capturing temporal informa-tion contained in newswire texts, and whenever bothrecognition and normalization tasks of temporal ex-pressions were attempted, the latter almost alwaysfell far behind from the former in terms of perfor-mance.In this paper we will focus on a different combi-nation of the problems: anchoring temporal expres-sions in scheduling-related emails.
In our projectwork of building personal agents capable of schedul-ing meetings among different users1, understand-ing temporal expressions is a crucial step.
We havetherefore developed and evaluated our system Tem-poral Expression Anchorer (TEA) that is capable ofnormalizing such expressions in texts.
As input TEAtakes English text with temporal expressions al-ready identified, and transduces the expressions intotheir representations using Time Calculus for Nat-ural Language (TCNL) (Han and Kohlhase, 2003).These representations, or TCNL formulae, are thenevaluated by incorporating the contextual informa-tion to give the final normalized output.
TCNL hasthe following characteristics: (1) a human calendar(e.g., the Gregorian calendar) is explicitly modeledas a constraint system to deal with the highly under-specified nature of many temporal expressions, andit allows easy extension to include new temporalprimitives; (2) a set of NL-motivated operators witha granularity-enriched type system facilitates therepresentation of the intensional meaning of a tem-1Project RADAR,http://www.radar.cs.cmu.edu/external.asp136poral expression in a compositional way; and (3) theuse of temporal references such as ?focus?
in therepresentation cleanly separates the core meaning ofan expression from its contextual dependency.The rest of this paper is organized as follows.Sec.
2 first surveys the characteristics of temporalexpressions in emails compared to those in newswiretexts, and motivates the design of our representation.Sec 3 then introduces the formalism TCNL.
The sys-tem TEA and the anchoring process is detailed inSec.
4, and the evaluation of the system is reportedin Sec.
5.
Finally Sec.
6 concludes this paper andoutlines the future work.2 Temporal Expressions in EmailsThe extent of temporal expressions considered inthis paper includes most of the expressions usingtemporal terms such as 2005, summer, evening,1:30pm, tomorrow, etc.
These expressions can beclassified into the following categories:?
Explicit: These expressions can be immedi-ately anchored, i.e., positioned on a timeline.E.g., June 2005, 1998 Summer, etc.?
Deictic: These expressions form a specific re-lation with the speech time (timestamp of anemail).
E.g., tomorrow, last year, two weeksfrom today.?
Relative: These include the other expressionsthat form a specific relation with a temporal fo-cus, i.e., the implicit time central to the discus-sion.
E.g., from 5 to 7, on Wednesday, etc.
Dif-ferent from the speech time, a temporal focuscan shift freely during the discourse.?
Durational: These are the expressions that de-scribe certain length in time.
E.g., for aboutan hour, less than 20 minutes.
This is differ-ent from an interval expression where both thestarting point and the ending point are given(e.g., from 5 to 7).
Most durational expres-sions are used to build more complex expres-sions, e.g., for the next 20-30 minutes.It is worth emphasizing the crucial difference be-tween deictic expressions and relative expressions:anchoring the former only relies on the fixed speechtime while normalizing the latter requires the usuallyhidden focus.
As illustrated below the latter task canbe much more challenging:?I?m free next week.
Let?s meet onWednesday.?
?Are you free on Wednesday?
?In the first example the ?Wednesday?
denotes a dif-ferent date since the first sentence sets up a differentfocus.
To make things even more interesting, ver-bal tense can also play a role, e.g., ?He finished thereport on Wednesday.
?There are other types of temporal expressionssuch as recurrence (?every Tuesday?)
and rate ex-pressions (?twice on Wednesday?)
that are not sup-ported in our system, although they are planned inour future work (Sec.
6).To appreciate the different nature of emails as agenre, an interesting observation can be made bycomparing the distributions of temporal expressionsin emails and in newswire texts.
The email cor-pora we used for development and testing were col-lected from MBA students of Carnegie Mellon Uni-versity over the year 1997 and 1998.
The 277 stu-dents, organized in approximately 50 teams of 4 to6 members, were participating in a 14-week courseand running simulated companies in a variety ofmarket scenarios (Kraut et al, 2004).
The originaldataset, the CSpace email corpus, contains approx-imately 15,000 emails.
We manually picked 1,196emails that are related to scheduling - these includescheduling meetings, presentations, or general plan-ning for the groups.
The emails are then randomlydivided into five sets (email1 to email5), and onlyfour of them are used in this work: email1 was usedto establish our baseline, email2 and email5 wereused for development, and part of email4 was usedfor testing.
Table 1 shows some basic statistics ofthese three datasets2, and an edited sample email isshown in Fig.
1 (names altered).
The most appar-ent difference comparing these emails to newswiretexts is in the percentage of explicit expressions oc-curring in the two different genres.
In (Mani et al,2003) it was reported that the proportion of such ex-pressions is about 25% in the newswire corpus they2The percentages in some rows do not add up to 100% be-cause some expressions like coordination can be classified intomore than one type.137Date: Thu, 11 Sep 1997 00:14:36 -0500I have put an outline out in the n10f1 OpReview directory...(omitted)We have very little time for this.
Please call me Thursdaynight to get clarification.
I will need graphs and prose infiles by Saturday Noon.?
Maryps.
Mark and John , I waited until AFTER midnight tosend this .Figure 1: A sample email (edited)used3.
In contrast, explicit expressions on averageonly account for around 9.5% in the three emaildatasets.
This is not surprising given that peopletend to use under-specified expressions in emails foreconomic reasons.
Another thing to note is that thereare roughly the same number of relative expressionsand non-relative expressions.
Since non-relative ex-pressions (including deictic expressions) can be an-chored without tracking the temporal focus over adiscourse and therefore can be dealt with in a fairlystraightforward way, we may assign 50% as a some-what generous baseline performance of any anchor-ing system4.Another difference between emails and newswiretexts is that the former is a medium for communi-cation: an email can be used as a reply, or can beattached within another email, or even be used toaddress to multiple recipients.
All of this compli-cates a great deal of our task.
Other notable dif-ferences are that in emails hour ambiguity tend toappear more often (?I?ll be home at 2.?
), and peo-ple tend to be more creative when they composeshort messages such as using tables (e.g., an entirecolumn of numbers to denote the number of min-utes alloted for each presenter), bullet lists, abbrevi-ations, and different month/day formats (?1/9?
canmean January 9 or September 1), etc.
Emails alsocontain more ?human errors?
such as misspellings(?Thusday?
to mean Thursday) and confusion aboutdates (e.g., using ?tomorrow?
when sending emails3Using the North American News Corpus.4This is a bit generous since solving simple calendric arith-metics such as anchoring last summer still requires a non-trivialmodeling of human calendars; see Sec.
3.around midnight), etc.
Overall it is very difficult torecover from this type of errors.3 Representing Times in NaturalLanguageThis section provides a concise overview of TCNL;readers are referred to (Han and Kohlhase, 2003;Han et al, 2006) for more detail.TCNL has two major components: a constraint-based model for human calendars and a represen-tational language built on top of the model.
Dif-ferent from the other representations such as Zeit-Gram (Stede and Haas, 1998), TOP (Androut-sopoulos, 1999), and TimeML/Timex3 (Saur??
et al,2006), the language component of TCNL is essen-tially ?calendar-agnostic?
- any temporal unit can beplugged in a formula once it is defined in the cal-endar model, i.e., the calendar model serves as thelexicon for the TCNL language.Fig.
2 shows a partial model for the Gregorian cal-endar used in TEA.
The entire calendar model is ba-sically a constraint graph with partial ordering.
Thenodes labeled with ?year?
etc.
represent temporalunits (or variables when viewed as a constraint sat-isfaction problem (CSP) (Ruttkay, 1998)), and eachunit can take on a set of possible values.
The undi-rected edges represent constraints among the units,e.g., the constraint between month and day man-dates that February cannot have more than 29 days.A temporal expression in NL is then viewed as ifit assigns values to some of the units, e.g., ?Fridaythe 13th?
assigns values to only units dow (day-of-week) and day.
An interval-based AC-3 algo-rithm with a chronological backtracking mechanismis used to derive at the consistent assignments to theother units, therefore allowing us to iterate to anyone of the possible Friday the 13th.The ordering among the units is designated by tworelations: measurement and periodicity (arrows inFig.
2).
These relations are essential for supportingvarious operations provided by the TCNL languagesuch as determining temporal ordering of two timepoints, performing arithmetic, and changing tempo-ral granularity, etc.
For example, to interpret the ex-pression ?early July?, we identify that July is a valueof unit month, and month is measured by day.
Wethen obtain the size of July in terms of day (31) and138Table 1: Basic statistics of the email corpora# ofemails# oftempexexplicit deictic relative durationalemail1 253 300 3 (1%) 139 (46.33%) 158 (52.67%) N/Aemail2 253 344 19 (5.5%) 112 (32.6%) 187 (54.4%) 27 (7.8%)email4 (part.)
149 279 71 (25.4%) 77 (27.6%) 108 (38.7%) 22 (7.9%)email5 126 213 14 (6.6%) 105 (49.3%) 92 (43.2%) 3 (1.4%)YearMonth DayHourMinuteSecondWeekDay-of-weekTime-of-dayTime-of-weekYear component Week component?X componentunit constraintsalignment constraintsis-measured-by relationis-periodic-in relation*******(* marks a representative)*temporal unitFigure 2: A partial model of the Gregorian calendardesignate the first 10 days (31/3) as the ?early?
partof July.Internally the calendar model is further parti-tioned into several components, and different com-ponents are aligned using non-binary constraints(e.g., in Fig.
2 the year component and the weekcomponent are aligned at the day and dow units).This is necessary because the top units in these com-ponent are not periodic within one another.
All ofthe operations are then extended to deal with multi-ple calendar components.Built on top of the calendar model is the typedTCNL language.
The three major types are coor-dinates (time points; e.g., {sep,6day} for Septem-ber 6), quantities (durations; e.g., |1hour| for onehour) and enumerations (sets of points, includingintervals; e.g., [{wed},{fri}] for Wednesday andFriday).
More complex expressions can be rep-resented by using various operators, relations andtemporal references; e.g., {now?|1day|} for yes-terday, {|1mon|@{>= }} for the coming Monday(or the first coming Monday in the future; the?
?
represents the temporal focus), | < |1hour|| forless than one hour, [{wed}:{fri}] for Wednes-day to Friday, [f {sat, noon}] for by Saturdaynoon5, and [[{15hour}:{17hour}]&{wed}] for 3-5pmon Wednesday.
The TCNL language is designedin such a way that syntactically different formu-lae can be evaluated to denote the same date;e.g., {tue, now+|1week|} (?Tuesday next week?)
and{now+|1tue|} (?next Tuesday?)
can denote the samedate.Associated with the operators are type and granu-larity requirements.
For example, when a focus isspecified down to second granularity, the formula{now+|1day|} will return a coordinate at the daygranularity - essentially stripping away informationfiner than day.
This is because the operator ?+?
(called fuzzy forward shifting) requires the left-handside operand to have the same granularity as that ofthe right-hand side operand.
Type coercion can alsohappen automatically if it is required by an operator.For example, the operator ?@?
(ordinal selection) re-quires that the right-hand side operand to be of typeenumeration.
When presenting a coordinate such as{>= } (some point in the future), it will be coerced5The f denotes the relation ?finishes?
(Allen, 1984); the for-mula denotes a set of coordinates no later than a Saturday noon.139Table 2: Summary of operators in TCNL; LHS/RHS is the left/right operand, g(e) returns the granularity ofe and min(s) returns the set of minimal units among s.operator Type requirement Granularity requirement Semantics Example+ and ?
C ?
Q ?
C g(LHS) ?
g(RHS) fuzzy forward/backwardshifting{now+|1day|}(?tomorrow?
)++ and ??
C ?
Q ?
C g(LHS) ?min(g(LHS)?g(RHS))exact forward/backwardshifting{now++|2hour|}(?2 hours from now?
)@ Q ?
E ?
C g(RHS) ?
g(LHS) ordinal {|2{sun}|@{may}}(?the 2nd Sunday in May?
)& C ?
C ?
CC ?
E ?
EE ?
C ?
EE ?
E ?
Eg(LHS) ?min(g(LHS)?g(RHS))distribution {now &{now+|1year|}}(?this time next year?
)[{15hour}&[{wed}:{fri}]](?3pm from Wednesday toFriday?
)into an enumeration so that the ordinal operator canselect a requested element out of it.
These designsmake granularity change and re-interpretation partof a transparent process.
Table 2 lists the operatorsin the TCNL language.Most of under-specified temporal expressions stilllack necessary information in themselves in order tobe anchored.
For example, it is not clear what tomake out of ?on Wednesday?
with no context.
InTCNL more information can be supplied by usingone of the coordinate prefixes: the ?+?/???
prefixsignifies the relation of a coordinate with the fo-cus (after/before the focus), and the ?f?/?p?
indicatesthe relation of a coordinate with the speech time(future/past).
For example, the Wednesday in ?thecompany will announce on Wednesday?
is repre-sented as +f{wed}, while ?the company announcedon Wednesday?
is represented as ?p{wed}.
Whenevaluating these formulae, TEA will rewrite the for-mer into {|1wed|@{>= , >= now}} and the latterinto {?|1wed|@{<= , <= now}} if necessary, es-sentially trying to find the nearest Wednesday ei-ther in the future or in the past.
Since TCNL for-mulae can be embedded, prefixed coordinates canalso appear inside a more complex formula; e.g.,{{|2{sun}|@f{may}}+|2day|} represents ?2 days af-ter a future Mother?s day?6.Note that TCNL itself does not provide a mecha-nism to instantiate the temporal focus (?
?).
The re-sponsibility of shifting a focus whenever necessary(focus tracking) is up to TEA, which is described inthe next section.6This denotes a possible range of dates, but it is still differentfrom an enumeration.4 TEA: Temporal Expression AnchorerThe input to our system TEA is English texts withtemporal expression markups, and the output is atime string for each temporal expression.
The formatof a time string is similar to the ISO 8601 scheme:for a time point the format is YYYYMMDDTHHMMSS(T is a separator), for an interval it is a pair of pointsseparated by ?/?
(slash).
Also whenever there areslots that lack information, we use ???
(questionmark) in its place.
If a points can reside at any placebetween two bounds, we use (lower..upper)to represent it.
Table.
3 shows the TEA output overthe example email given in Fig.
1 (min and max arethe minimal and the maximal time points TEA canreason with).TEA uses the following procedure to anchor eachtemporal expression:1.
The speech time (variable now) and the focus(?
?)
is first assigned to a timestamp (e.g., thereceived date of an email).2.
For each temporal expression, its nearest verbchunk is identified using the part-of-speechtags of the sentence.
Expressions associatedwith a verb of past tense or present imperfectivewill be given prefix ??p?
to its TCNL formula,otherwise it is given ?+f?7.3.
A finite-state parser is then used to transduce anexpression into its TCNL formula.
At the pars-ing stage the tense and granularity informationis available to the parser.7This is of course a simplification; future work needs to bedone to explore other possibilities.140Table 3: Anchoring example for the email in Fig.
1Expression TCNL formula Temporal focus (f ) Anchored time string(timestamp) 19970911T001436Thursday night +f{thu,night} 19970911T001436 (19970911T18????..19970911T23????
)by Saturday Noon [f +f{sat,noon}] (19970911T18????..19970911T23????)min/19970913T12???
?until AFTER mid-night[f{>= ?p{midnight}}] 19970911T001436 min/(19970911..max)4.
The produced TCNL formula (or formulaewhen ambiguity arises) is then evaluated withthe speech time and the current focus.
In caseof ambiguity, one formula will be chosen basedon certain heuristics (below).
The result of theevaluation is the final output for the expression.5.
Recency-based focus tracking: we use the fol-lowing procedure to determine if the result ob-tained above can replace the current focus (be-low).
In cases where the result is an ambigu-ous coordinate (i.e., it denotes a possible rangeof points), if one of the bounds is min or max,we use the other to be the new focus; if it isnot possible, we choose to keep the focus un-changed.
On the other hand, if the result isan enumeration, we go through a similar pro-cedure to avoid using an enumeration with amin/max bound as the new focus.
Finally noquantity can become a focus.Note that in Step 3 the decision to make partialsemantics of a temporal expression available to ourparser is based on the following observation: con-sider the two expressions below?Tuesday before Christmas?= {tue, < {|25day|@{dec}}}?Tuesday before 6pm?= {< {tue,18hour}, de {tue}}Both expressions share the same ?X before Y ?
pat-tern, but their interpretations are different8.
The keyto discriminate the two is to compare the granulari-ties of X and Y : if Y if at a coarser granularity thenthe first interpretation should be adopted.In Step 4 we use the following procedure to dis-ambiguate the result:8de denotes a relation ?during or equal?
(Allen, 1984).1.
Remove any candidate that resulted in an in-consistency when solving for a solution in thecalendar CSP.2.
If the result is meant to be a coordinate, pickthe one that is closest to the focus.3.
If the result is supposed to be an enumeration,pick the one whose starting point is closest tothe focus, and whose length is the shortest one.4.
Otherwise pick the first one as the result.For example, if the current time is 2:00 pm, for ex-pression ?at 3?
with a present/future tense, the bestanswer is 15:00.
For expression ?from 3 to 5?, thebest answer is from 3 pm to 5 pm.When deciding whether a temporal expressioncan become the next focus, we use simple heuris-tics to rule out any expression that behaves like anoun modifier.
This is motivated by the followingexample (timestamp: 19970919T103315):IT basically analyses the breakdown onlabor costs and compares our 1998 laborcosts with their demands for 1999-2000....I will check mail on Sunday and see anyfeedback.Without blocking the expression 1999-2000 frombecoming the focus, the last expression will be in-correctly anchored in year 2000.
The key obser-vation here is that a noun-modifying temporal ex-pression usually serves as a temporal co-referenceinstead of representing a new temporal entity in thediscourse.
These references tend to have a more con-fined effect in anchoring the subsequent expressions.141Table 4: Development and testing resultsAccuracy Parsing errors Human errors Anchoring errorsemail2 (dev) 78.2% 10.47% 1.7% 9.63%email5 (dev) 85.45% 5.16% 1% 8.39%email4 (test-ing)76.34% 17.92% < 1% 5.74%5 EvaluationThe temporal expressions in all of the datasets wereinitially tagged using rules developed for Minor-Third9, and subsequently corrected manually by twoof the authors.
We then developed a prototype sys-tem and established our baseline over email1 (50%).The system at that time did not have any focus track-ing mechanism (i.e., it always used the timestampas the focus), and it did not use any tense infor-mation.
The result confirms our estimate given inSec.
2.
We then gradually developed TEA to its cur-rent form using email1, email2 and email5.
Dur-ing the four-month development we added the focustracking mechanism, incorporating the tense infor-mation into each TCNL formula via the coordinateprefixes, and introduced several representational im-provements.
Finally we tested the system on the un-seen dataset email4, and obtained the results shownin Table 4.
Note that the percentages reported inthe table are accuracies, i.e., the number of cor-rectly anchored expressions over the total numberof temporal expressions over a dataset, since we areassuming correct tagging of all of the expressions.Our best result was achieved in the dev set email5(85.45%), and the accuracy over the test set email4was 76.34%.Table 4 also lists the types of the errors made byour system.
The parsing errors are mistakes madeat transducing temporal expressions using the finite-state parser into their TCNL formulae, the humanerrors are described in Sec.
2, and the rest are theanchoring errors.
The accuracy numbers are allcompared favorably to the baseline (50%).
To putthis performance in perspective, in (Wiebe et al,1998) a similar task was performed over transcribedscheduling-related phone conversations.
They re-ported an average accuracy 80.9% over the CMU9http://minorthird.sourceforge.net/test set and 68.9% over the NMSU test set.
Althoughstrictly speaking the two results cannot be compareddue to differences in the nature of the corpora (tran-scription vs. typing), we nevertheless believe it rep-resents a closer match compared to the other worksdone on newswire genre.It should also be noted that we adopted a simi-lar recency-based focus model as in (Wiebe et al,1998).
Although simple to implement, this naiveapproach proved to be one major contributor to theanchoring errors in our experiments.
An example isgiven below (the anchored times are shown in sub-script):This research can not proceed until thetrade-offs are known on Monday19970818 ....Mary will perform this byFriday(min..19970822) using the datafrom Monday19970825 .The last expression received an incorrect date: itshould be the same date the expression ?on Mon-day?
refers to.
Our system made this error becauseit blindly used the most recently mentioned time((min..19970822)) as the focus to anchor theformula +f{mon}.
This error later also propagatedto the anchoring of the subsequent expressions.6 Conclusion and Future WorkIn this paper we have adopted a constraint-basedrepresentation of time, Time Calculus for NaturalLanguage (TCNL), to tackle the task of anchoringtemporal expressions in a novel genre, emails.
Webelieve that the genre is sufficiently different fromnewswire texts, and its highly under-specified naturefits well with a constraint-based modeling of humancalendars.
TCNL also allows for an explicit repre-sentation of temporal focus, and many of our intu-itions about granularity change and temporal arithe-142matics are encapsulated in its type system and oper-ators.
The performance of our anchoring system issignificantly better than baseline, and compares fa-vorably with some of the closely related work.In the future we will re-examine our focus track-ing mechanism (being the most significant source oferrors), and possibly treat it as a classification prob-lem (similar to (Mani et al, 2003)).
We also need toinvestigate the disambiguation procedure and pos-sibly migrate the functionality into a separate dis-course module.
In addition, the co-referencing ten-dency of noun-modifying expressions could lead toa better way to anchoring this particular type of tem-poral expressions.
Finally we would like to ex-pand our coverage of temporal expressions to in-clude other types of expressions such as recurrenceexpressions10.AcknowledgmentsThis material is based upon work supported bythe Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency(DARPA) under Contract No.
NBCHD030010.Any opinions, findings and conclusions or recom-mendations expressed in this material are those ofthe author(s) and do not necessarily reflect the viewsof the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency(DARPA), or the Department of Interior-NationalBusiness Center (DOI-NBC).ReferencesJ.
F. Allen.
1984.
Towards a General Theory of Actionand Time.
Artificial Intelligence, 23:123?154.I.
Androutsopoulos.
1999.
Temporal Meaning Rep-resentations in a Natural Language Front-end.
InM.
Gergatsoulis and P. Rondogiannis, editors, Inten-sional Programming II (Proceedings of the 12th In-ternational Symposium on Languages for IntensionalProgramming, Athens, Greece.E.
Filatova and E. Hovy.
2001.
Assigning Time-Stamps To Event-Clauses.
In Proceedings of ACL-2001: Workshop on Temporal and Spatial InformationProcessing, Toulouse, France, 7.10The current design of TCNL allows for a more restrictedtype of recurrence: e.g., ?3pm from Wednesday to Friday?
isrepresented as [{15hour}&[{wed}:{fri}]].
However this is in-sufficient to represent expressions such as ?every 4 years?.Benjamin Han and Michael Kohlhase.
2003.
A TimeCalculus for Natural Language.
In The 4th Work-shop on Inference in Computational Semantics, Nancy,France, September.B.
Han, D. Gates, and L. Levin.
2006.
From Language toTime: A Temporal Expression Anchorer.
In Proceed-ings of the 13th International Symposium on Tempo-ral Representation and Reasoning (TIME 2006), Bu-dapest, Hungary.J.
R. Hobbs and Feng.
Pan.
2004.
An ontology of timefor the semantic web.
TALIP Special Issue on Spa-tial and Temporal Information Processing, 3(1):66?85, March.R.
E. Kraut, S. R. Fussell, F. J. Lerch, and A Espinosa.2004.
Coordination in teams: Evidence from a sim-ulated management game.
Journal of OrganizationalBehavior, to appear.I.
Mani and G. Wilson.
2000.
Robust Temporal Process-ing of News.
In Proceedings of ACL-2000.I.
Mani, B. Schiffman, and J. Zhang.
2003.
InferringTemporal Ordering of Events in News.
In Proceedingsof the Human Language Technology Conference (HLT-NAACL?03).Zso?fia Ruttkay.
1998.
Constraint Satisfaction - a Survey.Technical Report 11(2-3), CWI.Roser Saur?
?, Jessica Littman, Bob Knippen, RobertGaizauskas, Andrea Setzer, and James Pustejovsky,2006.
TimeML Annotation Guidelines, Version 1.2.1,January 31.F.
Schilder and C. Habel.
2001.
From Temporal Expres-sions To Temporal Information: Semantic Tagging OfNews Messages.
In Proceedings of ACL-2001: Work-shop on Temporal and Spatial Information Processing,Toulouse, France, 7.Andrea Setzer.
2001.
Temporal Information in NewswireArticles: an Annotation Scheme and Corpus Study.Ph.D.
thesis, University of Sheffield.M.
Stede and S. Haas.
1998.
Understanding and track-ing temporal descriptions in dialogue.
In B. Schro?der,W.
Lenders, W. Hess, and T. Portele, editors, Proceed-ings of the 4th Conference on Natural Language Pro-cessing - KONVENS ?98.N.
Vazov.
2001.
A System for Extraction of Tempo-ral Expressions from French Texts Based on Syntac-tic and Semantic Constraints.
In Proceedings of ACL-2001: Workshop on Temporal and Spatial InformationProcessing, Toulouse, France, 7.J.
M. Wiebe, T. P. O?Hara, T. Ohrstrom-Sandgren, andK.
J. McKeever.
1998.
An Empirical Approach toTemporal Reference Resolution.
Journal of ArtificialIntelligence Research, 9:247?293.143
