Proceedings of the Human Language Technology Conference of the North American Chapter of the ACL, pages 5?8,New York, June 2006. c?2006 Association for Computational LinguisticsThe MILE Corpus for Less Commonly Taught LanguagesAlison Alvarez, Lori Levin, RobertFrederking, Simon Fung, DonnaGatesLanguage Technologies Institute5000 Forbes AvenuePittsburgh, PA 15213[nosila, lsl, ref+,sfung, dmg]@cs.cmu.eduJeff GoodMax Planck Institute for EvolutionaryAnthropologyDeutscher Platz 604103 Leipziggood@eva.mpg.deAbstractThis paper describes a small, struc-tured English corpus that isdesigned for translation into LessCommonly Taught Languages(LCTLs), and a set of re-usabletools for creation of similar cor-pora.
1  The corpus systematicallyexplores meanings that are known toaffect morphology or syntax in theworld?s languages.
Each sentenceis associated with a feature structureshowing the elements of meaningthat are represented in the sentence.The corpus is highly structured sothat it can support machine learningwith only a small amount of data.As part of the REFLEX program,the corpus will be translated intomultiple LCTLs, resulting in paral-lel corpora can be used for trainingof MT and other language technolo-gies.
Only the untranslated Englishcorpus is described in this paper.1   IntroductionOf the 6,000 living languages in the worldonly a handful have the necessary monolin-gual or bilingual resources to build aworking statistical or example-based ma-chine translation system.
Currently, there1 AVENUE/MILE is supported by the US Na-tional Science Foundation NSF grant numberIIS-0121-631 and the US Government?sREFLEX Program.are efforts to build language packs for LessCommonly Taught Languages (LCTLs).Each language pack includes parallel cor-pora consisting of naturally occurring texttranslated from English into the LCTL orvice versa.This paper describes a small corpusthat supplements naturally occurring textwith highly systematic enumeration ofmeanings that are known to affect morphol-ogy and syntax in the world?s languages.The supplemental corpus will enable theexploration of constructions that are sparseor obscured in natural data.
The corpusconsists of 12,875 English sentences, total-ing 76,202 word tokens.This paper describes the construc-tion of the corpus, including tools andresources that can be used for the construc-tion of similar corpora.2 Structure of the corpus| 247: John said "The woman is a teacher.
"| 248: John said the woman is not a teacher.| 249: John said "The woman is not a teacher.
"| 250: John asked if the woman is a teacher.| 251: John asked "Is the woman a teacher?
"| 252: John asked if the woman is not a teacher.| ?| 1488: Men are not baking cookies.| 1489: The women are baking cookies.| ?| 1537: The ladies' waiter brought appetizers.| 1538: The ladies' waiter will bring appetizers.Figure 1: A sampling of sentences fromthe complete elicitation corpus5srcsent: Mary was not a doctor.context: Translate this as though it were spoken to a peer co-worker;((actor ((np-function fn-actor)(np-animacy anim-human)(np-biological-gender bio-gender-female)(np-general-type  proper-noun-type)(np-identifiability identifiable)(np-specificity specific)?
))(pred ((np-function fn-predicate-nominal)(np-animacy anim-human)(np-biological-gender bio-gender-female) (np-general-type common-noun-type)(np-specificity specificity-neutral)?
))(c-v-lexical-aspect state)(c-copula-type copula-role)(c-secondary-type secondary-copula)(c-solidarity solidarity-neutral) (c-power-relationship power-peer) (c-v-grammatical-aspect gram-aspect-neutral)(c-v-absolute-tense past) (c-v-phase-aspect phase-aspect-neutral) (c-general-type declarative-clause)(c-polarity polarity-negative)(c-my-causer-intentionality intentionality-n/a)(c-comparison-type comparison-n/a)(c-relative-tense relative-n/a)(c-our-boundary boundary-n/a)?
)Figure 2:  An abridged feature structure, sentence and context fieldThe MILE (Minor Language Elicitation)corpus is a highly structured set of Englishsentences.
Each sentence represents ameaning or combination of meanings thatwe want to elicit from a speaker of anLCTL.
For example, the corpus excerptsin Figure 1 explore quoted and non quotedsentential complements, embedded ques-tions, negation, definiteness, biologicalgender, and possessive noun phrases.Underlying each sentence is a featurestructure that serves to codify its meaning.Additionally, sentences are accompanied bya context field that provides information thatmay be present in the feature structure, butnot inherent in the English sentence.
Forexample, in Figure 2, the feature structurespecifies solidarity with the hearer andpower relationship of the speaker and hearer,as evidenced by the features-value pairs (c-solidarity solidarity-neutral) and (c-power-relationship power-peer).
Because this isnot an inherent part of English grammar, thisaspect of meaning is conveyed in the contextfield.3 Building the CorpusFigure 3 shows the steps in creating thecorpus.
Corpus creation is driven by a Fea-ture Specification.
The FeatureSpecification defines features such as tense,person, and number, and values for eachfeature such past, present, future, remotepast, recent past, for tense.
Additionally,the feature specification defines illegal com-binations of features, such as the use of asingular number with an inclusive or exclu-sive pronoun (We = you and me vs we = meand other people).
The inventory of fea-tures and values is informed by typologicalstudies of which elements of meaning areknown to affect syntax and morphology insome of the world?s languages.
The featurespecification currently contains 42 featuresand 340 values and covers.
In order to selectthe most relevant features we drew guidancefrom Comrie and Smith (1977) and Bouqui-aux and Thomas (1992).
We also used theWorld Atlas of Language Structures(Haspelmath et al 2005) as a catalog of ex-isting language features and their prevalence.In the process of corpus creation, featurestructures are created before their corre-sponding English sentences.
There arethree reasons for this.
First, as mentionedabove, the feature structure may containelements of meaning that are not explicitlyrepresented in the English sentence.
Sec-ond, multiple elicitation languages can begenerated from the same set of feature struc-tures.
For example, when we elicit SouthAmerican languages we use Spanish insteadof English sentences.
Third, what we wantto know about each LCTL is not how ittranslates the structural elements of Englishsuch as determiners and auxiliary verbs, buthow it renders certain meanings such as6List of semanticfeatures andvaluesThe CorpusFeature Maps:  whichcombinations offeatures and valuesare of interestClause-LevelNoun-PhraseTense &Aspect ModalityFeature Structure SetsFeatureSpecificationReverse Annotated Feature StructureSets: add English sentencesSmaller   CorpusSampling?Figure 3: An overview of the elicitation corpus production processdefiniteness, tense, and modality, which arenot in one-to-one correspondence with Eng-lish words.Creation of feature structures takes placein two steps.
First, we define which com-binations of features and values are ofinterest.
Then the feature structures areautomatically created from the feature speci-fication.Combinations of features are specifiedin Feature Maps (Figure 3).
These mapsidentify features that are known to interactsyntactically or morphologically in somelanguages.
For example, tense in Englishis partially expressed using the auxiliaryverb system.
An unrelated aspect of mean-ing, whether a sentence is declarative orinterrogative, interacts with the tense systemin that it affects the word order of auxiliaryverbs (He was running, Was he running),Thus there is an interaction of tense withinterrogativity.
We use studies of lan-guage typology to identify combinations offeatures that are known to interact.Feature Maps are written in a conciseformalism that is automatically expandedinto a set of feature structures.
For exam-ple, we can formally specify that we wantthree values of tense combined with threevalues of person, and nine feature structureswill be produced.
These are shown as Fea-ture Structure Sets in Figure 3.4 Sentence WritingAs stated previously, our corpusconsists of feature structures that have beenhuman annotated with a sentence and con-text field.
Our feature structures containfunctional-typological information, but donot contain specific lexical items.
Thismeans that our set of feature structures canbe interpreted into any language using ap-propriate word choices and used forelicitation.
Additionally, this leaves thehuman annotator with some freedom whenselecting vocabulary items.
Due to feed-back from previous elicitation subjects wechose basic vocabulary words while steeringclear of overly primitive subject matter thatmay be seen as insulting.
Moreover, wedid our best to avoid lexical gaps; for exam-ple, many languages do not have a singleword that means winner.7Translator accuracy was also an im-portant objective and we took pains toconstruct natural sounding, unambiguoussentences.
The context field is used toclarify the sentence meaning and spell outfeatures that may not manifest themselves inEnglish.5 ToolsIn conjunction with this project wecreated several tools that can be reused tomake new corpora with other purposes.?
An XML schema and XSLT can be usedto make different feature specifications?
A feature structure generator that can beused as a guide to specify and designfeature maps?
A feature structure browser can be usedto make complicated feature structureseasier to read and annotate6 ConclusionThe basic steps for creating a func-tional-typological corpus are:1.
Combinations of features are selected2.
Sets of feature structures representing allfeature combinations are generated3.
Humans write sentences with basic vo-cabulary that represent the meaning inthe feature structure4.
If the corpus is too large, some or all ofthe corpus can be sampledWe used sampling and assessments ofthe most crucial features in order to compileour corpus and restrict it to a size smallenough to be translatable by humans.
As aresult it is possible that this corpus will missimportant feature combinations in some lan-guages.
However, a corpus containing allpossible combinations of features wouldproduce hundreds of billions of featurestructures.Our future research includes building aCorpus Navigation System to dynamicallyexplore the full feature space.
Using ma-chine learning we will use information de-tected from translated sentences in order todecide what parts of the feature space areredundant and what parts must be exploredand translated next.
A further description ofthis process can be read in Levin et al(2006).Additionally, we will change from usinghumans to write sentences and context fieldsto having them generated by using a naturallanguage generation system (Alvarez et al2005).We also ran small scale experiments tomeasure translator accuracy and consistencyand encountered positive results.
Hebrewand Japanese translators provided consistent,accurate translations.
Large scale experi-ments will be conducted in the near future tosee if the success of the smaller experimentswill carry over to a larger scale.7 ReferencesAlvarez, Alison, and Lori Levin, RobertFrederking, Jeff Good, Erik PetersonSeptember 2005, Semi-Automated ElicitationCorpus Generation.
In Proceedings of MTSummit X, Phuket: Thailand.Bouquiaux, Luc and J.M.C.
Thomas.
1992.Studying and Describing Unwritten Lan-guages.
Dallas, TX: The Summer Institute ofLinguistcs.Comrie, Bernard and N. Smith.
1977.Lingua descriptive series: Questionnaire.
In:Lingua, 42:1-72.Haspelmath, Martin and Matthew S. Dryer,David Gil, Bernard Comrie, editors.
2005World Atlas of Language Strucutures.
OxfordUniversity Press.Lori Levin, Alison Alvarez, Jeff Good, andRobert Frederking.
2006 "Automatic Learningof Grammatical Encoding."
To appear in JaneGrimshaw, Joan Maling, Chris Manning, JoanSimpson and Annie Zaenen (eds)Architectures, Rules and Preferences: AFestschrift for Joan Bresnan , CSLI Publications.
In Press.8
