NAACL HLT Demonstration Program, pages 1?2,Rochester, New York, USA, April 2007. c?2007 Association for Computational LinguisticsDemonstration of PLOW: A Dialogue System for One-Shot TaskLearningJames Allen, Nathanael Chambers, George Ferguson*, Lucian Galescu, Hyuckchul Jung,Mary Swift*and William TaysomFlorida Institute for Human and Machine Cognition, Pensacola, FL 32502*Computer Science Department, University of Rochester, Rochester, NY 14627IntroductionWe describe a system that can learn newprocedure models effectively from onedemonstration by the user.
Previous work to learntasks through observing a demonstration (e.g.,Lent & Laird, 2001) has required observing manyexamples of the same task.
One-shot learning oftasks presents a significant challenge because theobserved sequence is inherently incomplete ?
theuser only performs the steps required for thecurrent situation.
Furthermore, their decision-making processes, which reflect the controlstructures in the procedure, are not revealed.We will demonstrate a system called PLOW(Procedural Learning on the Web) that learns taskknowledge through observation accompanied by anatural language ?play-by-play?.
Naturallanguage (NL) alleviates many task learningproblems by identifying (i) a useful level ofabstraction of observed actions; (ii) parameterdependencies; (iii) hierarchical structure; (iv)semantic relationships between the task and theitems involved in the actions; and (v) controlconstructs not otherwise observable.
Variousspecialized reasoning modules in the systemcommunicate and collaborate with each other tointerpret the user?s intentions, build a task modelbased on the interpretation, and check consistencybetween the learned task and prior knowledge.The play-by-play approach in NL enables ourtask learning system to build a task with high-level constructs that are not inferable fromobserved actions alone.
In addition to theknowledge about task structure, NL also providescritical information to transform the observedactions into more robust and reliable executableforms.
Our system learns how to find objects usedin the task, unifying the linguistic information ofthe objects with the semantic representations ofthe user?s NL descriptions about them.
Theobjects can then be reliably found in dynamic andcomplex environments.
See Jung et al(2006) andChambers et al(2006) for more details on thePLOW system.The PLOW SystemPLOW learns tasks executable on the webinvolving actions such as navigation, informationextraction and form filling, and can learn iterativesteps that operate over lists of objects on pages.Figure 1 shows the system during learning a taskto find publications for a specified author.
Upperleft is the Mozilla browser, in which the user candemonstrate action and the system can executeactions in a mixed-initiative fashion.
The usermay speak or type to the system (SR output islower right), and PLOW combines knowledgefrom the language and the demonstrated actions toproduce a parameterized procedure (described ingenerated natural language in the upper rightcorner).
Figure 2 shows a complete trainingdialogue in which PLOW learns how to findarticle titles.
To save space, simpleacknowledgments by the system are not shown.Figure 1: PLOW learning a task1EvaluationThe PLOW system was evaluated by independentevaluators who considered four task learningsystems developed in the CALO project.
Therewere 16 human subjects who received training oneach of the systems and who worked through anumber of successful scripted training sessionswith each.
They were then given ten newproblems, ranging from slight variations toproblems they had seen to problems that weresubstantially new.
They were free to choose whichproblems to work on and which system to use andthe resulting tasks learned were tested withdifferent settings of the parameters and scored outof a total of 4 points based on a complexpredefined evaluation criteria (not known to thedevelopers).
The PLOW system did well in thetest, not only receiving the highest average scoreon tasks learned by a system (figure 3) but alsowas strongly preferred by the users and selectedmore than half the time (figure 4).The DemonstrationIf we are allowed a presentation we willdemonstrate PLOW live on a task selected by theaudience.
In addition, we would like to have thesystem available for an extended period of timeduring the conference so that attendees can spendtime using the system to teach it simple tasks.
Thesystem runs on a laptop and all that is needed fora demo is internet access.Acknowledgements & ReferencesThis work was supported by DARPA grant NBCH-D-03-0010 under a subcontract from SRI International,ONR grant N000140510314, and NSF grant5-28096.Chambers, N. et al (2006).
Using Semantics to IdentifyWeb Objects.
Proceedings AAAI.Jung, H., J. Allen, et al (2006).
One-Shot Proce-dureLearning from Instruction and Observation.
FLAIRS,Melbourne, FL.Lent, M. and Laird, J.
(2001)  Learning ProceduralKnowledge through Observation,  Proc.
of the IntlConf.
on Knowledge Capture.Figure 3: Average score (out of 4)Figure 4: User preference for systems (55 trials)U: Let me show you how to find someone's publicationsU: Go to this webpageNavigates to http://scholar.google.comU: Click on the advanced search linkClicks Advanced Scholar SearchU: Put the author's name hereTypes the name in the Author text fieldU: Click the search buttonClicks on the Search Scholar buttonU: OK here is the list of resultsSelects the table on pagePLOW: Can you check that I understand the data.PLOW: puts up a new window with the results.U: OK this is good.U: this is the article titleHighlights a titlePLOW: attempts to find all titles and displays themU: This is wrong.PLOW OKU: This is another article titleHighlights another correct titlePLOW: recomputes all the titles and displays themSwitches back to Scholar windowU: OK click next to get more resultsClicks the Next linkPLOW: When should I stop searching?U: Get thirty resultsPLOW: OK.
I will do thatPLOW: iterates through pages until it gets 30 resultsPLOW: I?m done.U: We're done with the demonstrationU: Let's practicePLOW: what is the name of the author?Enters a new namePLOW executes the procedure successfully!
!Figure 2: Learning to find titles of an author?s publications (U = user)2
