NAACL HLT Demonstration Program, pages 27?28,Rochester, New York, USA, April 2007. c?2007 Association for Computational LinguisticsThe Hidden Information State Dialogue Manager:A Real-World POMDP-Based SystemSteve Young, Jost Schatzmann, Blaise Thomson, Karl Weilhammer, Hui YeCambridge University Engineering DepartmentTrumpington Street, Cambridge, CB21PZ, United Kingdom{sjy, js532, brmt2, kw278, hy216}@eng.cam.ac.ukAbstractThe Hidden Information State (HIS)Dialogue System is the first trainableand scalable implementation of a spokendialog system based on the Partially-Observable Markov-Decision-Process(POMDP) model of dialogue.
The systemresponds to n-best output from the speechrecogniser, maintains multiple concurrentdialogue state hypotheses, and providesa visual display showing how competinghypotheses are ranked.
The demo isa prototype application for the TouristInformation Domain and achieved a taskcompletion rate of over 90% in a recentuser study.1 Partially Observable Markov DecisionProcesses for Dialogue SystemsRecent work on statistical models for spoken di-alogue systems has argued that Partially Observ-able Markov Decision Processes (POMDPs) providea principled mathematical framework for modelingthe uncertainty inherent in human-machine dialogue(Williams, 2006; Young, 2006; Williams and Young,2007).
Briefly speaking, POMDPs extend the tra-ditional fully-observable Markov Decision Process(MDP) framework by maintaining a belief state, ie.a probability distribution over dialogue states.
Thisenables the dialogue manager to avoid and recoverfrom recognition errors by sharing and shifting prob-ability mass between multiple hypotheses of the cur-rent dialogue state.
The framework also naturallyincorporates n-best lists of multiple recognition hy-potheses coming from the speech recogniser.Due to the vast number of possible dialogue statesand policies, the use of POMDPs in practical dia-logue systems is far from straightforward.
The sizeof the belief state scales linearly with the number ofdialogue states and belief state updates at every turnduring a dialogue require all state probabilities to berecomputed.
This is too computationally intensiveto be practical with current technology.
Worse thanthat, the complexity involved in policy optimisationgrows exponentially with the number of states andsystem actions and neither exact nor approximate al-gorithms exist that provide a tractable solution forsystems with thousands of states.2 The Hidden Information State (HIS)Dialogue ManagerThe Hidden Information State (HIS) dialogue man-ager presented in this demonstration is the first train-able and scalable dialogue system based on thePOMDP model.
As described in (Young, 2006;Young et al, 2007) it partitions the state space usinga tree-based representation of user goals so that onlya small set of partition beliefs needs to be updatedat every turn.
In order to make policy optimisationtractable, a much reduced summary space is main-tained in addition to the master state space.
Policiesare optimised in summary space and the selectedsummary actions are then mapped back to masterspace to form system actions.
Apart from some verysimple ontology definitions, the dialog manager hasno application dependent heuristics.The system uses a grid-based discretisation of the27Figure 1: The HIS Demo System is a Tourist Infor-mation application for a fictitious townstate space and online -greedy policy optimisation.While this offers the potential for online adaptationwith real users at a later stage, a simulated user isneeded to bootstrap the training process.
A novelagenda-based simulation technique was used for thisstep, as described in (Schatzmann et al, 2007).3 The HIS Demo SystemThe HIS demo system is a prototype application forthe Tourist Information domain.
Users are assumedto be visiting a fictitious town called ?Jasonville?
(see Fig.
1) and need to find a suitable hotel, baror restaurant subject to certain constraints.
Exam-ples of task scenarios are ?finding a cheap Chineserestaurant near the post office in the centre of town?or ?a wine bar with Jazz music on the riverside?.Once a venue is found, users may request further in-formation such as the phone number or the address.At run-time, the system provides a visual display(see Fig.
2) which shows how competing dialoguestate hypotheses are being ranked.
This allows de-velopers to gain a better understanding of the inter-nal operation of the system.4 Demo System PerformanceIn a recent user study the demo system was evalu-ated by 40 human subjects.
In total, 160 dialogueswere recorded with an average Word-Error-Rate of29.8%.
The performance of the system was mea-sured based on the recommendation of a correctvenue and achieved a task completion rate of 90.6%with an average number of 5.59 dialogue turns tocompletion (Thomson et al, 2007).Figure 2: A system screenshot showing the rankingof competing dialogue state hypothesesThe results demonstrate that POMDPs facilitatedesign and implementation of spoken dialogue sys-tems, and that the implementation used in the HISdialogue manager can be scaled to handle real worldtasks.
The user study results also show that asimulated user can be successfully used to train aPOMDP dialogue policy that performs well in ex-periments with real users.5 Accompanying materialsThe demo system and related materials are accessi-ble online at our websitehttp://mi.eng.cam.ac.uk/research/dialogue/.ReferencesJ.
Schatzmann, B. Thomson, K. Weilhammer, H. Ye, andS.
Young.
2007.
Agenda-Based User Simulation for Boot-strapping a POMDP Dialogue System.
In Proceedings ofHLT/NAACL, Rochester, NY.B.
Thomson, J. Schatzmann, K. Weilhammer, H. Ye, andS.
Young.
2007.
Training a real-world POMDP-based Di-alogue System.
In Proceedings of Bridging the Gap: Aca-demic and Industrial Research in Dialog Technology, Work-shop at HLT/NAACL, Rochester, NY.J.
D. Williams and S. Young.
2007.
Partially ObservableMarkov Decision Processes for Spoken Dialog Systems.Computer Speech and Language, 21(2):231?422.J.
D. Williams.
2006.
Partially Observable Markov DecisionProcesses for Spoken Dialogue Management.
Ph.D. thesis,University of Cambridge.S.
Young, J. Schatzmann, K. Weilhammer, and H. Ye.
2007.The Hidden Information State Approach to Dialog Manage-ment.
In Proc.
of ICASSP (forthcoming), Honolulu, Hawaii.S.
Young.
2006.
Using POMDPs for Dialog Management.
InProc.
of IEEE/ACL SLT, Palm Beach, Aruba.28
