Proceedings of the NAACL-HLT 2007 Doctoral Consortium, pages 1?4,Rochester, April 2007. c?2007 Association for Computational LinguisticsQuery Expansion Using Domain Information in CompoundsKarin FribergDepartment of Swedish LanguageGo?teborg UniversityGo?teborg, Swedenkarin.friberg@svenska.gu.seAbstractThis paper describes a query expansionstrategy for domain specific informationretrieval.
Components of compounds areused selectively.
Only parts belonging tothe same domain as the compound itselfwill be used in expanded queries.1 IntroductionCompounds are semantic units containing at leasttwo content-bearing morphemes.
They function asone word, and are, in many languages, written as oneword.
In Swedish newspapers around 10% of thewords have been found to be compounds (Hedlund,2002).
Since a compound has at least two content-bearing morphemes, a great part of the informationis contained in the compounds, information whichcan be essential in retrieving relevant documents.I will study medical compounds, examining pos-sible ways to expand queries in information retrievalusing domain information.
This information willguide the decision of when to include compoundparts in search queries.
The hypothesis is that com-ponents from the same domain as the compound it-self, in this case the medical domain, will increasethe effectiveness of the search, while componentsfrom other domains or standard language will not.2 Information RetrievalInformation retrieval is about storing and orga-nizing documents so that they can be found andretrieved when relevant to an information need(Baeza-Yates, and Ribiero-Neto, 1999).
The wordsof the documents are stored in indexes.
The userposes a query to the system containing words de-scribing the information need.
Words in the queriesare matched against the indexed words.
A rankingfunction finally ranks the documents in order of cal-culated relevance.
The better the match, the higher adocument is ranked.The goal of information retrieval is to retrieve asmany documents relevant to an information need aspossible, high recall, and to have as low proportionof irrelevant documents in the output as possible,high precision.2.1 Query expansionQuery expansion is modification of a query to im-prove retrieval effectiveness.
This can be done bychanging or increasing the term content of a query.In my work the strategy of expanding queries con-taining compounds, with selected compound com-ponents, is discussed.
The strategy should result inhigher recall, since more documents are likely to beretrieved.
There is, however, a risk of lower preci-sion, since irrelevant documents with certainty alsowill be retrieved.
To minimize the decrease of pre-cision, only components from the same domain asthe compound itself will be used.
Here, dealing withmedical compounds, the objective is to decide if thecomponents are from the medical domain.3 CompoundsA compound is, as mentioned above, a semantic unitwith more than one content-bearing morpheme.
InSwedish, compounding is a very productive mor-1phological process.
There is an infinite number ofpossible compounds, so it is impossible to list themall.
They are also written as one word without theboundary between the parts marked in any way.3.1 Compositional/non-compositionalcompoundsOccasional compounds, not lexicalized but con-structed when needed, usually have a transparentmeaning, where the meaning can be derived fromthe meaning of the parts.
These are called composi-tional compounds.
Other compounds, with a mean-ing that has strayed from the combined meaningof the components, are called non-compositionalcompounds (Hedlund, 2002).
Non-compositionalcompounds are often lexicalized with a fixed mean-ing.
An example of a lexicalized non-compositionalcompound is tra?dga?rd ?tree yard?, Swedish for ?gar-den?, not necessarily a garden containing trees.In information retrieval, compositional and non-compositional compounds are best treated in differ-ent ways.
Non-compositional compounds are oftenfound in dictionaries and can be processed as theyare.
Using the components in queries would not ben-efit the result.
If a query contains a compositionalcompound, the compound components might verywell be used to expand the query, since they buildup the meaning of the whole.3.2 Decomposition not always beneficialWhen expanding queries with compound compo-nents, to increase recall, it is important to be awarethat this could result in lower precision.
This mightbe the case if the compound is non-compositionalor if the parts are too general or used in other do-mains.
In Ahlgren (2004) the author gives exam-ples of when decomposition of compounds is use-ful and when it is not.
For a compound such asfotboll ?foot ball?
(soccer), expanding a query withfot and boll would probably result in lower preci-sion.
On the other hand, expanding a query contain-ing the compound narkotikapolitik ?drug politics?,with narkotika and politik would probably be moreuseful.
Documents containing phrases like politikmot narkotika ?politics against drugs?
could be re-trieved.
Documents containing narkotika or politikalone would also be found.
Here one can speculatethat documents containing narkotika have a goodchance of being relevant, while the concept politikis broader and could cause retrieval of many irrele-vant documents.My idea is to expand queries containing medi-cal compounds by selecting components that alsobelong to the medical domain.
Take the com-pound korsband ?cross band/tape?
(cruciate liga-ment).
Both parts belong to standard language.Including them would do more harm than good.In the case of a?derbra?cksstrumpa ?varicose-veinsstocking?
the component a?derbra?ck seems to be agood candidate for query expansion, unlike strumpa,which belongs to standard language.4 The MeSH thesaurusOne way to determine which compound parts be-long to the medical domain is to use a medicalthesaurus, a controlled vocabulary with words or-ganized according to conceptual relations.
I haveused the Swedish MeSH (Medical Subject Head-ings) (Svensk MeSH, www), which is based on atranslation of the original American MeSH (MeSH,www).4.1 The MeSH taggerA Swedish MeSH tagger (Kokkinakis, 2006) is be-ing developed at Spra?kdata, Department of SwedishLanguage, Go?teborg University.
The tagger tagsmaximal length strings from six subdomains of theSwedish MeSH: A: Anatomy, B: Organisms, C: Dis-eases, D: Chemicals and Drugs, E: Analytical, Diag-nostic, and Therapeutic Techniques and Equipment,and F: Psychiatry and Psychology.
If a string istagged, the tagger will not mark a substring of thisstring unless it is from another subdomain.
The tag-ger does not tag any substrings shorter than five let-ters.In the Swedish MeSH the compound kransarta?r?wreath artery?
(coronary artery) is not listed, thus itis not tagged.
On the other hand arta?r is found andtagged accordingly.
The word krans is not a medicalterm.
It is not included in MeSH and consequentlynot tagged:krans<mesh:A07>arta?r</mesh>4.2 Expansion using MeSHAs mentioned above, one expansion strategy forqueries containing medical compounds is to add do-2main specific parts of the compounds to the query.This should work with compositional compounds.An example is patellaluxation ?patella dislocation?
(dislocation of the knee cap).
Chances are that doc-uments containing any or both of the simplex wordspatella and luxation will be relevant to the needs ofa user including patellaluxation in a query.Baseline query:#sum(...patellaluxation...)Expanded query:#sum (...#syn(patellaluxationpatella luxation)...)Expanding queries with components not from thedomain, especially those common in standard lan-guage, will probably result in lower precision.
In theexample kransarta?r the strategy would be to keepthe original compound, add arta?r which is found bythe MeSH tagger, but not krans which is not tagged.Baseline query:#sum(...kransarta?r...)Expanded query:#sum(...#syn(kransarta?r arta?r)...)5 ExperimentsTo test the MeSH tagger, a run was made with5205 compounds extracted from the on-line med-ical lexicon Medlex (Kokkinakis, 2004), createdat Spra?kdata, Department of Swedish Language,Go?teborg University.
Medlex was created by addingmedical vocabulary to a learner?s dictionary, thus agreat part of the compounds in Medlex are from themedical domain.895 of the 5205 compounds were tagged.
Amongcompounds not tagged, around 10% were medical.This figure should improve with a more comprehen-sive tagger.233 compounds which were not tagged as awhole, had one or two components correctly tagged.This is where the strategy described should be mostbeneficial, suggesting that an expanded query con-tain the compound itself and the tagged substring(s).Examples of tagging which may improve effec-tiveness in query expansion, are shown below:<mesh:D22/D27>cellgift</mesh>sbehandling?cell-poison treatment?
(chemotherapytreatment)dotter<mesh:C04>tumo?r</mesh>?daughter tumor?fot<mesh:C17/C04/C02>va?rta</mesh>?foot wart?<mesh:D06/D12>insulin</mesh>chock?insulin chock?63 compounds had tagged components not usedin medical senses.
Those strings were homonymic,polysemic, or had several facets.
Homonymy iswhen a string represents different words that bychance are alike.
Polysemy is when one word hasseveral meanings.
For example, the ?leg?
of a personand the ?leg?
of a table.
Facets are different aspectsof one concept.
A ?person?
has a body aspect as wellas a personality aspect (Croft and Cruse, 2004).It is tagging of words that are homonymic, poly-semic, or with medical and non-medical facets thatI predict will cause difficulties.
An example isha?stansikte ?horse face?.
Although ansikte is a med-ical term, it is not used in a medical sense here.
Ifyou say that a person has a ha?stansikte it is a com-ment about looks, not health.
The word ansikte has amedical facet, but also a personal appearance facet.Other examples of compounds with problematiccomponents are listed below:do?d<mesh:A02>skalle</mesh>?death skull?
(skull referred to in a pirateor scary sense)femdygns<mesh:E01>prognos</mesh>?five-days prognosis?
(weather domain)<mesh:A01>finger</mesh>borg?finger castle?
(thimble)Only four compounds had spurious substringstagged.
An example is ro?ntgen+apparat ?x-ray de-vice?, tagged as below, nappar meaning ?pacifiers?
:ro?ntge<mesh:E07>nappar</mesh>at5.1 A pre-decomposed runAs mentioned above, the MeSH tagger tags onlymaximal length (sub)strings from each subdomainof MeSH.
The tagger also does not tag short stringsunless they are separate words.
This entails that3short components will not be tagged unless decom-position of the compound is done first.In order to see how these features affect the out-come of the tagger, I ran the Medlex list through thetagger after decomposing the compounds.This time, 1095 compounds had one or both com-ponents tagged.
819 of these were used in the med-ical sense.
This is a number which should be com-pared with 233 in the previous run.276 compounds had components that were taggedalthough not used in a medical sense.
Only one com-pound had a spurious substring tagged.5.2 Standard language versus medicallanguageOne problem in decomposing compounds and usingthe medically tagged components to expand queries,is that many words that are medical in some meaningor facet are common in standard language.
Even ifwe know that such a component is used in the med-ical sense in a query, expanding the query with thatcomponent would bring on irrelevant documents.Examples of words with such properties are hand?hand?
and hja?rta ?heart?.
Even though these wordsare used in medical senses they are also common instandard language, for example in lexicalized com-pounds or in phrases.In the tagger run with the decomposed list, mostof the 276 words that were tagged as medical,though not used in the medical sense, had as a com-ponent one of only 16 basic words.
Below are a fewsuch compounds that have as a component a wordfrom that list, hand:<mesh:A01>hand</mesh> bok?hand book?<mesh:A01>hand</mesh> broms?hand brake?<mesh:A01>hand</mesh> duk?hand cloth?
(towel)6 Future workI have presented a strategy of how to use domaininformation to decide when parts of a compoundshould be used in query expansion.
UnfortunatelyI have not been able to test the effectiveness of thisstrategy.
To get a true evaluation of the strategy,a Swedish medical test collection is needed.
Atpresent there is no such collection.
However, myresearch at the moment is concentrated on creatinga Swedish medical test collection, by the name ofMedEval.The first step in my research is thus to create aSwedish medical test collection, the second to testquery expansion strategies based on domain infor-mation, such as the one described here.
The strat-egy described could be carried through not only inqueries, but also in indexes.
That is, if a documentfrom the medical domain contains a medical com-pound, the index could contain not only the com-pound, but also its medical components.
Still, a bigchallenge will be to work out how to deal with poly-semic and homonymic words and words with medi-cal and non-medical facets.ReferencesAhlgren, Per.
2004.
The effects of indexing strategy-query term combination on retrieval effectiveness in aSwedish full text database.
Publications from Valfrid,nr 28.
University College of Bora?s/Go?teborg Univer-sity.Baeza-Yates Ricardo and Berthier Ribeiro-Neto.
1999.Modern information retrieval.
ACM-press, New York,NY.Croft, William and D. Alan Cruse.
2004.
Cognitive Lin-gustics.
Cambridge University Press.
Cambridge.Hedlund, Turid.
2002.
Compounds in dictionary-basedcross-language information retrieval.
Information Re-search, volume 7 No.2.
2002.
Department of Informa-tion Studies.
University of Tampere, Finland.Kokkinakis, Dimitrios.
2004.
MEDLEX: Tech-nical Report.
Department of Swedish Lan-guage, Spra?kdata, Go?teborg University.
[www].<http://demo.spraakdata.gu.se/svedk/pbl/MEDLEXwork2004.pdf> Retrieved January 9, 2007.Kokkinakis, Dimitrios.
2006.
Developing Resources forSwedish Bio-Medical Text Mining.
Proceedings of the2nd International Symposium on Semantic Mining inBiomedicine (SMBM).
Jena, Germany.MeSH.
Medical Subject Headings.
U.S. NationalLibrary of Medicine, Bethesda, MD.
[www].<http://www.nlm.nih.gov/mesh/>.
Retrieved January9, 2007.Svensk MeSH.
MeSH-resurser vid KIB.
KarolinskaInstitutet Universitetsbiblioteket, Stockholm.
[www].<http://mesh.kib.ki.se/>.
Retrieved January 9, 2007.4
