Proceedings of the NAACL-HLT 2007 Doctoral Consortium, pages 13?16,Rochester, April 2007. c?2007 Association for Computational LinguisticsKnowledge-Based Labeling of Semantic Relationships in EnglishAlicia TribbleLanguage Technologies InstituteCarnegie Mellon UniversityPittsburgh, PA, USAatribble@cs.cmu.eduAbstractAn increasing number of NLP tasks re-quire semantic labels to be assigned, notonly to entities that appear in textual ele-ments, but to the relationships betweenthose entities.
Interest is growing in shal-low semantic role labeling as well as indeep semantic distance metrics groundedin ontologies, as each of these contributesto better understanding and organizationof text.
In this work I apply knowledge-based techniques to identify and exploredeep semantic relationships in severalstyles of English text: nominal com-pounds, full sentences in the domain ofknowledge acquisition, and phrase-levellabels for images in a collection.
I alsopresent work on a graphical tool for ex-ploring the relationship between domaintext and deep domain knowledge.1 IntroductionAs our command of NLP techniques has grownover the decades, the tasks which we can accom-plish have become more useful and complex: wecan (to an increasing extent) answer questions, cre-ate summaries, and even create new knowledge byextracting and merging facts from large text cor-pora.
To make our systems reach their potential onthese tasks, we need to extend our analysis of textinto deep semantics, often grounded in worldknowledge.In this work, I explore the semantic relationshipsin several styles of English text using knowledge-driven NLP techniques as well as a novel graphicaltool for the navigation of knowledge bases (KBs,or ontologies).I begin by describing a system based on aug-mented LFG-style grammar rules, appropriate forthe domain-limited sentences that are required forknowledge entry by knowledge base engineers.
Ina subsequent system for interpreting nominal com-pounds, I rely more heavily on the knowledge al-ready stored in the knowledge base to guide aheuristic search for meaning (Tribble and Fahlman,2006).These systems demonstrate how a knowledgebase can contribute to NLP performance.
Duringdevelopment of the systems, knowledge acquisi-tion and organization became important sub-topics.In response I began work on a graphical tool,SconeEdit (Tribble, Lambert, and Fahlman, 2006).SconeEdit allows users to navigate the semanticconcepts and relations in a text corpus, guided bythe rich, grounded features of these concepts in aknowledge base.With this interface as a scaffold, future work en-tails improving the analysis systems for noun com-pounds and full sentences, and incorporating thesesystems in a comparative evaluation of the graphi-cal and NLP-based methods for exploring semanticrelationships in domain-restricted text.
In addition,I will use this framework to evaluate a knowledge-13based approach for the task of retrieving labeledimages from a collection.2 Semantic Analysis for Knowledge Engi-neeringOne of the motivating goals of this work is to lev-erage the power of NLP tools to ease the burden ofknowledge engineers who develop ontological re-sources.
By converting English sentences into asemantic representation automatically, a systemprovides an intuitive input method for adding newknowledge.2.1     Knowledge Engineering in SconeThe context for this work is the Scone KnowledgeRepresentation (KR) Project (Fahlman, 2005).
TheScone KR System encompasses an inference en-gine along with a set of upper-level domain on-tologies.
As with other large KR systems along thelines of CYC (Lenat, 1986), knowledge engineerscreate much of the upper-level KB content byhand.To develop a system that would address theneeds of these engineers, I collected a corpus ofEnglish sentences covering the six core structure-building tasks in Scone:?
Defining a type?
Adding an instance of a type?
Defining a relation between types?
Adding an instance of a relation?
Defining a new role (HAS-A) relation?
Instantiating a role-filling relation2.2 A Grammar-Based SystemThe resulting corpus displayed a high degree ofsemantic cohesion, as expected, but with a widedegree of syntactic variation.
To transform thesesentences automatically into the Scone KR, Ideveloped a set of semantic interpretationfunctions and added them as callouts in an existingLFG-style syntactic grammar.
The resultingaugmented English grammar is applied to newsentences using the LCFlex parser of Ros?
andLavie (2000).
In this way, every parse constituentcan be conditioned on queries to the knowledgebase, allowing not only flat semantic features (e.g.
?is the noun animate??)
but rich structuralknowledge (?does this person own a pet??)
to beapplied during the parse.The new grammar rules produce output in theScone KR formalism.
As a result, the output canbe read as the knowledge-grounded meaning of aninput sentence, and it can also become additionalinput to the Scone inference engine, adding to thestore of background knowledge or making a newquery.
However, the appeal of this design islimited by the fact that, as in many grammar-basedsystems, the rules themselves are costly to writeand maintain.2.3 Adding GeneralizationFor this reason,  I modified the approach andexamined the effectiveness of a few general?preference?
rules, based on syntax.
In contrastwith the grammar system, the search forinterpretations can now be driven, rather thanpruned, by domain knowledge.
I tested thisapproach on the interpretation of noun compounds,where the lack of syntactic cues requires heavyreliance on semantic interpretation  (Tribble andFahlman, 2006).
I found that a majority ofcompounds, even in a new textual domain, couldbe analyzed correctly using the new set of rulesalong with an appropriate domain-specific KB.3 A Graphical Tool for ExploringSemantic RelationshipsWhile the cost of grammar writing can be reducedwith updated algorithms, developing andmaintaining large knowledge repositories is one ofthe key challenges in knowledge-based NLP: theknowledge acquisition ?bottleneck?.
Myhypothesis is that a natural-language (NL) interfaceis an important tool for easily modifying andadding knowledge in a complex KR system likeScone; language is an intuitive way for users toexpress what they want from the knowledge base.In the course of developing NL tools for theScone Project, I also recognized the need to viewdomain text, domain knowledge, and the semanticrelationships that they share in a ?snapshot?.
Inte-grating textual and graphical exploration gives us-ers a comfortable handle on the knowledge base,even when they don?t know exactly what theywant.14I designed the SconeEdit knowledge- and text-browsing tool (Tribble, et al 2006) in response tothis need.
The tool provides an annotated view oftext chosen by the user, allowing him to see whatconcepts and vocabulary from the text arecurrently in the KB.
Alongside this Text View,SconeEdit provides a navigable snapshot of theknowledge base (KB View), centered on conceptsthat appear in the text.
This unified browserestablishes a principled, coverage-driven way to?surf?
the KB and add new knowledge.
Ascreenshot of SconeEdit, recently updated to viewimages as well as text, is shown in Figure 1.The SconeEdit tool has already been used bygroups outside the Scone Project, for the purposeof qualitatively evaluating knowledge bases for usein  new subdomains.
My goal for the conclusionof this work is to synergize the lines of researchdescribed so far, building our English analysistools into the SconeEdit interface.
With theresulting tool I can run a detailed evaluation  of myEnglish analyzers, as well as shed light on theusability of text-based versus graphical knowledgeentry.Figure 1.
Screenshot of SconeEdit, updated to displayimages as well as text.4 Task-Based Evaluation: RetrievingLabeled ImagesTo bring this work to bear in a task-basedevaluation, I have also started developing a systemfor labeled image retrieval.
To retrieve images ofinterest from large collections, traditional systemsrely on matching between a high-level query andlow-level image features, or on matching the querywith an unordered bag-of-words that has been at-tached to each image.
In current work I am inves-tigating sentence fragments, which retain somesyntactic structure, as a useful style of image anno-tation that is complementary to the current bag-of-words style.
Analysis of 2,776 image titlesdownloaded from the web establishes that frag-ment-style labels are intuitive, discriminative, anduseful.These labels can be used to retrieve images froma collection in the following way: first, a typedquery is given to the system (e.g.
?people pettingtheir dogs?).
An English analyzer, using im-provements to the techniques described in Section2, produces the Scone semantic representation ofthis query (a semantic graph).
Next, the Sconeinference engine is used to match the query againstpre-computed semantic representations of the im-age labels.
The system retrieves the image whoselabel matches best.
Figure 2 is an example re-trieved for this query by Google Image Search.Figure 2.
Image retrieved by Google Image Search for?people petting their dogs?.4.1 Development DataIn order to train the functions that measure a?match?
in the knowledge base, as well as to im-prove the English-to-Scone analysis, I need train-ing data in the form of images, their fragment-stylelabels, and one or more query that matches eachimage and its label.I collected one corpus of images with theirfragment-style labels from the publicly availablecollection on Flickr (http://www.flickr.com).
Asecond corpus of fragment-labeled images hasbeen provided by one the authors of von Ahn andDabbish (2004).
In many cases, a single image has15multiple fragment-style labels.
To convert thisdata into the format I need, I can use the redundantlabels as substitute ?queries?, under the assumption(which should be validated experimentally) thatimage-retrieval queries often take the form of sen-tence fragments, as well.An evaluation that uses these labels for imageretrieval will proceed as follows: A subset of thelabeled images which were not seen or used inprevious work will be reserved as test data.
Re-maining images with their labels and queries willbe used to improve the English-to-Scone analysissystem and the semantic similarity functions withinScone.
Finally, the queries for the test set will besubmitted to the retrieval system, and system re-sults will be compared to the ?correct?
imagesgiven by the test set.
Precision and recall can becalculated under a variety of conditions, includingone-image-per-query and several-images-per-query.
Comparison to shallow techniques for labelmatching, as used with bag-of-words style labels,will also be a feature of this evaluation.5 ConclusionIn summary, I have presented a body of work onexploring and labeling the deep semantic relation-ships in English text.
A grammar-based system forsentences and a heuristic search system for nouncompounds explore the role of domain knowledgein tools for syntactic and deep semantic analysis.In addition, I designed and demonstrated graphicaltool for exploring rich semantic features in text,grounded in a knowledge base or ontology.
Thetool has been used by our own knowledge engi-neers as well by other research teams at CMU.I will build on this work in the coming monthsas I prepare for two evaluations: a study on theusability of natural language and graphical toolsfor navigating a knowledge base, and a task-basedevaluation on labeled image retrieval.
Theseevaluations should bring closure to the work as acontribution in the field of semantic analysis oftext.ReferencesScott E. Fahlman.
2005.
The Scone User?s Manual.http://www.cs.cmu.edu/~sef/scone.Alicia Tribble, Benjamin Lambert and Scott E.Fahlman.
2006.
SconeEdit: A Text-Guided DomainKnowledge Editor.
In Demonstrations of HLT-NAACL 2006.
New York.Alicia Tribble and Scott E. Fahlman.
2006.
ResolvingNoun Compounds with Multi-Use Domain Knowl-edge.
In Proceedings of FLAIRS-2006.
MelbourneBeach, Florida.Alicia Tribble and Carolyn P. Ros?.
2006.
UsableBrowsers for Knowledge Acquisition.
In Proceed-ings of CHI-2006.
Montreal, Quebec.Carolyn P. Ros?
and Alon Lavie.
2001.
Balancing Ro-bustness and Efficiency in Unification-AugmentedContext-Free Parsers for Large Practical Applica-tions.
In J.C. Junqua and G. Van Noord, eds.
Robust-ness in Language and Speech Technology.
KluwerAcademic Press.D.
B. Lenat, M. Prakash and M. Shepherd.
1986.
Cyc:using common sense knowledge to overcome brittle-ness and knowledge acquisition bottlenecks..
In AIMagazine.
6:4.Luis von Ahn and Laura Dabbish.
2004.
Labeling im-ages with a computer game.
In Proceedings of ACMCHI (pp 319?326).16
