NAACL HLT Demonstration Program, pages 31?32,Rochester, New York, USA, April 2007. c?2007 Association for Computational LinguisticsVoice-Rate: A Dialog System for Consumer RatingsGeoffrey Zweig, Y.C.
Ju, Patrick Nguyen, Dong Yu,Ye-Yi Wang and Alex AceroSpeech Research GroupMicrosoft Corp.Redmond, WA 98052{gzweig,yuncj,panguyen,dongyu, yeyi-wang,alexac}@microsoft.comAbstractVoice-Rate is an automated dialog systemwhich provides access to over one millionratings of products and businesses.
Bycalling a toll-free number, consumers canaccess ratings for products, national busi-nesses such as airlines, and local busi-nesses such as restaurants.
Voice-Ratealso has a facility for recording and ana-lyzing ratings that are given over thephone.
The service has been primed withratings taken from a variety of websources, and we are augmenting thesewith user ratings.
Voice-Rate can be ac-cessed by dialing 1-877-456-DATA.1 OverviewVoice-Rate is an automated dialog system de-signed to help consumers while they are shopping.The target user is a consumer who is consideringmaking an impulse purchase and would like to getmore information.
He or she can take out a cell-phone, call Voice-Rate, and get rating informationto help decide whether to buy the item.
Here arethree sample scenarios:Sally has gone to Home Depot to buysome paint to touch-up scratches on thewall at home.
She?ll use exactly the samecolor and brand as when she first paintedthe wall, so she knows what she wants.While at Home Depot, however, Sally seessome hand-held vacuum cleaners and de-cides it might be nice to have one.
But, sheis unsure whether which of the availablemodels is better: The ?Black & DeckerCHV1400 Cyclonic DustBuster,?
the?Shark SV736?
or the ?Eureka 71A.?
Sallycalls Voice-Rate and gets the ratings andmakes an informed purchase.John is on vacation with his family in Seat-tle.
After going up in the Space Needle,they walk by ?Abbondanza Pizzeria?
andare considering lunch there.
While it looksgood, there are almost no diners inside,and John is suspicious.
He calls Voice-Rate and discovers that in fact the restau-rant is highly rated, and decides to gothere.Returning from his vacation, John dropshis rental car off at the airport.
The rentalcompany incorrectly asserts that he hasscratched the car, and causes a big hassle,until they finally realize that they alreadycharged the last customer for the samescratch.
Unhappy with the surly service,John calls Voice-Rate and leaves a warn-ing for others.Currently, Voice-Rate can deliver ratings for overone million products, two hundred thousand res-taurants in over sixteen hundred cities; and aboutthree thousand national businesses.2 Technical ChallengesTo make Voice-Rate operational, it was necessaryto solve the key challenges of name resolution anddisambiguation.
Users rarely make an exactly cor-rect specification of a product or business, and it isnecessary both to utilize a ?fuzzy-match?
for namelookup, and to deploy a carefully designed disam-biguation strategy.31Voice-Rate solves the fuzzy-matching process bytreating spoken queries as well as business andproduct names as documents, and then performingTF-IDF based lookup.
For a review of namematching methods, see e.g.
Cohen et al, 2003.
Inthe ideal case, after a user asks for a particularproduct or business, the best-matching item asmeasured by TF-IDF would be the one intended bythe user.
In reality, of course, this is often not thecase, and further dialog is necessary to determinethe user?s intent.
For concreteness, we will illu-strate the disambiguation process in the context ofproduct identification.When a user calls Voice-Rate and asks for a prod-uct review, the system solicits the user for theproduct name, does TF-IDF lookup, and presentsthe highest-scoring match for user confirmation.
Ifthe user does not accept the retrieved item, Voice-Rate initiates a disambiguation dialog.Aside from inadequate product coverage, whichcannot be fixed at runtime, there are two possiblesources for error: automatic speech recognition(ASR) errors, and TF-IDF lookup errors.
The dis-ambiguation process begins by eliminating thefirst.
To do this, it asks the user if his or her exactwords were the recognized text, and if not to repeatthe request.
This loop iterates twice, and if the us-er?s exact words still have not been identified,Voice-Rate apologizes and hangs up.Once the user?s exact words have been validated,Voice-Rate gets a positive identification on theproduct category.
From the set of high-scoring TF-IDF items, a list of possible categories is compiled.For example, for ?The Lord of the Rings The TwoTowers,?
there are items in Video Games, DVDs,Music, VHS, Software, Books, Websites, and Toysand Games.
These categories are read to the user,who is asked to select one.
All the close-matchingproduct names in the selected category are thenread to the user, until one is selected or the list isexhausted.3 Related WorkTo our knowledge, Voice-Rate is the first largescale ratings dialog system.
However, the technol-ogy behind it is closely related to previous dialogsystems, especially directory assistance or ?411?systems (e.g.
Kamm et al, 1994, Natarajan et al,2002, Levin et al, 2005, Jan et al, 2003).
A gen-eral discussion of name-matching techniques suchas TF-IDF can be found in (Cohen et al, 2003,Bilenko et al, 2003).The second area of related research has to do withweb rating systems.
Interesting work on extractinginformation from such ratings can be found in, e.g.
(Linden et al, 2003, Hu et al, 2004, Gammon etal., 2005).
Work has also been done using text-based input to determine relevant products (Chai etal., 2002).
Our own work differs from this in thatit focuses on spoken input, and in its breadth ?covering both products and businesses.ReferencesM.
Bilenko, R. Mooney, W. W. Cohen, P. Ravikumar and S.Fienberg.
2003.
Adaptive Name-Matching in InformationIntegration.
IEEE Intelligent Systems 18(5): 16-23 (2003).J.
Chai, V. Horvath, N. Nicolov, M. Stys, N. Kambhatla, W.Zadrozny and P. Melville.
2002.
Natural Language Assis-tant- A Dialog System for Online Product Recommenda-tion.
AI Magazine (23), 2002W.
W. Cohen, P Ravikumar and S. E. Fienberg .
2003.
Acomparison of string distance metrics for name-matchingtasks.
Proceedings of the IJCAI-2003 Workshop on Infor-mation, 2003M.
Gamon, A. Aue, S. Corston-Oliver and E. Ringger.
2005.Pulse: Mining Customer Opinions from Free Text.
In Lec-ture Notes in Computer Science.
Vol.
3646.
Springer Ver-lag.
(IDA 2005)., pages 121-132.M.
Hu and B. Liu.
2004.
Mining and summarizing customerreviews.
Proceedings of the 2004 ACM SIGKDD interna-tional conference.E.
E. Jan, B. Maison, L. Mangu and G. Zweig.
2003.
Auto-matic construction of Unique Signatures and Confusablesets for Natural Language Directory Assistance Applica-tion.
Eurospeech 2003C.
A. Kamm, K. M. Yang, C. R. Shamieh and S. Singhal.1994.
Speech recognition issues for directory assistanceapplications.
Second IEEE Workshop on Interactive VoiceTechnology for Telecommunications Applications.E.
Levin and A. M. Man?.
2005.
Voice User Interface Designfor Automated Directory Assistance Eurospeech 2005.G.
Linden, B. Smith and J. York.
Amazon.com recommenda-tions: item-to-item collaborative filtering.
2003.
InternetComputing, IEEE , vol.7, no.1pp.
76- 80.P.
Natarajan, R. Prasad, R. Schwartz and J. Makhoul.
2002.
AScalable Architecture for Directory Assistance Automation,ICASSP 2002, Orlando, Florida.32
