Proceedings of NAACL HLT 2007, pages 17?24,Rochester, NY, April 2007. c?2007 Association for Computational LinguisticsAvoiding and Resolving Initiative Conflicts in Dialogue?Fan Yang and Peter A. HeemanCenter for Spoken Language UnderstandingOGI School of Science & EngineeringOregon Health & Science University{fly,heeman}@cslu.ogi.eduAbstractIn this paper, we report on an empirical studyon initiative conflicts in human-human conver-sation.
We examined these conflicts in twocorpora of task-oriented dialogues.
The re-sults show that conversants try to avoid initia-tive conflicts, but when these conflicts occur,they are efficiently resolved by linguistic de-vices, such as volume.1 IntroductionCurrent computer dialogue systems tend to be system-initiative.
Although there are some mixed-initiative sys-tems that allow the user to make a request or state a goal,such systems are limited in how they follow natural ini-tiative behavior.
An example is where the system alwaysreleases the turn whenever the user barges in.
However,in a complex domain where the computer system and hu-man user are collaborating on a task, the computer sys-tem might need to interrupt the human user, or mighteven need to fight with the human user over the turn.Thus the next generation of computer dialogue systemsneed a better model of initiative (Horvitz, 1999).
In whatsituations can the system try to take initiative from theuser?
What devices can the system use to fight for ini-tiative?
We propose examining human-human conversa-tion to answer these questions.
Once we understand theconventions people adopt in negotiating initiative, we canimplement them in a computer dialogue system to createnatural interactivity.In this research work, we examined two corpora ofhuman-human conversation: the Trains corpus (Heemanand Allen, 1995) and the MTD corpus (Heeman et al,2005).
The research purpose is to understand conver-sants?
behavior with initiative conflicts, which we definea situation where both conversants try to direct the con-versation at the same time, but one of them fails.
We?This work was funded by the National Science Foundationunder IIS-0326496.found that (1) conversants try to avoid initiative con-flicts; and (2) initiative conflicts, when they occur, areefficiently resolved by linguistic devices, such as volume.In Section 2, we review related research work on mod-eling initiative and turn-taking.
Dialogue initiative andturn-taking are two intertwined research topics.
Whenconversants fight to show initiative, they are also fightingfor the turn to speak.
In Section 3, we describe the twocorpora and their annotations.
In Section 4, we defineinitiative conflict and give an example.
In Section 5, wepresent the evidence that conversants try to avoid initia-tive conflicts.
In Section 6, we present evidence that ini-tiative conflicts are efficiently resolved by linguistic de-vices.
We discuss our findings in Section 7 and futurework in Section 8.2 Related Research2.1 Initiative ModelsResearchers have been investigating how people man-age dialogue initiative in their conversation.
Whittakerand Stenton (1988) proposed rules for tracking initiativebased on utterance types; for example, statements, pro-posals, and questions show initiative, while answers andacknowledgements do not.
Smith (1993) proposed fourdifferent initiative strategies with differing amounts ofcontrol by the system.
Chu-Carrol and Brown (1998)distinguished dialogue initiative from task initiative, andproposed an evidential model of tracking both of them.Cohen et al (1998) proposed presenting initiative in dif-ferent strengths.
Some researchers related initiative todiscourse structure.
Walker and Whittaker (1990) founda correlation between initiative switches and discoursesegments.
Strayer et al (2003) proposed the restrictedinitiative model in which the initiator of a discourse seg-ment, who introduces the discourse segment purpose, isin control of the segment and shows most of the initia-tive.
These models allowed the possibility that multipleconversants will want to show initiative at the same time;however, none of them addressed initiative conflicts.Guinn (1998) studied another type of initiative, taskinitiative, which is about directing the problem-solving17of a domain goal.
Guinn proposed that the person whois more capable of coordinating the current goal is theperson who should be leading the dialogue.
Initiativeswitches between conversants as goals get pushed andpopped from the problem-solving stack.
However, be-cause conversants only have incomplete information, ini-tiative conflicts might occur when conversants overesti-mate their own capability or underestimate the other?s.Guinn proposed a negotiation model to resolve these con-flicts of task initiative.
Conversants negotiate by inform-ing each other of positive and negative information oftheir plans to achieve the goal.
By comparing each other?splan, the conversant whose plan has the higher probabil-ity of success takes initiative.
Guinn?s research on con-flicts of task initiative, however, has little bearing on con-flicts of dialogue initiative.
For dialogue initiative, veryoften, one of the conversants just gives up the attemptvery quickly, without giving a justification.
As stated byHaller and Fossum (1999):?...
conflicts are often simpleclashes that result from both participants trying to takethe initiative at the same time.
Such conflicts do not nec-essarily require complex negotiation to resolve.
Often,unwritten rules based on factors like social roles, personalassertiveness, and the current locus of control play a partin determining who will give away.?
However, Haller andFossum did not further investigate how conversants effi-ciently resolve conflicts of dialogue initiative.2.2 Turn-Taking and InitiativeTurn-taking in conversation is highly related to initiative.Conversants have to possess the turn in order to show ini-tiative.
When conversants are fighting for initiative, theyare also fighting for the turn to speak.
Thus the mech-anisms of turn-taking might share some similarity withinitiative.
On the other hand, turn-taking is different frominitiative; for example, an answer takes a turn, but an-swering does not show initiative.Turn-taking in conversation has been discussed in lin-guistics literature.
Duncan (1974) examined cues (ges-ture, acoustic, and linguistic) that conversants use to sig-nal turn-taking or turn-releasing.
A model based on thesesignals was created to account for conversants?
turn-taking behavior.
In this model, miscues are the cause ofoverlapping speech: for example, the hearer misrecog-nizes the speaker?s cue to keep the turn, or the speakerfails to properly signal.Sacks et al (1974) proposed a set of rules for turn-taking: the current speaker can select somebody else tospeak; otherwise, hearers can self-select to speak; oth-erwise, the speaker can self-select to speak.
This modelsuggested that overlapping speech results from either thehearer waiting too long to speak, or the speaker not wait-ing long enough.Schegloff (2000) examined overlapping speech in de-tail in human conversation.
He concluded that (1) fightsfor turn are often accompanied with sudden acoustic al-teration, such as louder volume, higher pitch, and fasteror slower speaking rate; (2) the vast majority of fights forturn are resolved very quickly; (3) fights for turn are re-solved through an interactive procedure, e.g.
syllable bysyllable negotiation, using devices such as volume, pitch,and speaking rate.
However, his analysis only consistedof a few examples; no statistical evidence was given.
Itis thus unclear whether his conclusions represent humanconventions of initiative conflict, or are occasional behav-ior that would only occur under special circumstances.3 Corpora and AnnotationsTo understand human behavior in initiative conflicts, weexamined two corpora, the Trains corpus and the MTDcorpus.
These two corpora have very different domain se-tups.
The distinct behavior seen in each corpus will helpinform us how domain settings affect initiative, while thecommon behavior will help inform us the cross-domainhuman conventions.3.1 The Trains CorpusThe Trains corpus is a collection of human-human task-oriented dialogues, in which two participants work to-gether to formulate a plan involving the manufacture andtransportation of goods.
One participant, the user, has agoal to solve; and the other participant, the system, knowsthe detailed domain information including how long ittakes to ship and manufacture goods.We annotated eight Trains dialogues totaling about45 minutes using the tool DialogueView (Yang et al,2007).
We tagged each utterance with a simplifiedDAMSL scheme (Core and Allen, 1997).
Utteranceswere tagged as forward or backward functions, stalls, ornon-contributions.
Forward functions include statements,questions, checks and suggestions.
Backward functionsinclude agreements, answers, acknowledgments, repeti-tions and completions.
Examples of stalls are ?um?
and?let?s see?, used by a conversant to signal uncertainty ofwhat to say next or how to say it.
Non-contributions in-clude abandoned and ignored utterances.
The flow ofthe dialog would not change if non-contributions wereremoved.Hierarchical discourse structure was annotated follow-ing Strayer et al (2003).
To determine whether a groupof utterances form a discourse segment, we took into ac-count whether there exists a shared goal introduced byone of the conversants (cf.
Grosz and Sidner, 1986).3.2 The MTD CorpusThe MTD corpus contains dialogues in which a pair ofparticipants play two games via conversation: an ongoing18game that takes a relatively long time to finish and aninterruption game that can be done in a couple turns buthas a time constraint.
Both games are done on computers.Players are separated so that they cannot see each other.In the ongoing game, the two players work together toassemble a poker hand of a full house, flush, straight, orfour of a kind.
Each player has three cards in hand, whichthe other cannot see.
Players take turns drawing an extracard and then discarding one until they find a poker hand,for which they earn 50 points.
To discourage players fromsimply rifling through the cards to look for a specific cardwithout talking, one point is deducted for each picked-upcard, and ten points for a missed or incorrect poker hand.To complete this game, players converse to share cardinformation, and explore and establish strategies basedon the combined cards in their hands.From time to time, the computer generates a promptfor one player to start an interruption game to find outwhether the other player has a certain picture on thescreen.
The interruption game has a time constraint of10, 25, or 40 seconds, which is (pseudo) randomly deter-mined.
Players get five points for the interruption gameif the correct answer is given in time.
Players are told toearn as many points as possible.We annotated six MTD dialogues totaling about 90minutes.
Utterances were segmented based on player?sintention so that each utterance has only one dialogueact that is to share information, explore strategies, sug-gest strategies, or maintain an established strategy (Tohet al, 2006).
We applied the same simplified DAMSLscheme on utterance tag annotations.
Figure 1 shows anannotated excerpt of an MTD dialogue.
We grouped ut-terances into blocks.
Block b21 is a game block in whichconversants completed a poker hand.
Blocks b22 and b23are two card blocks in which conversants picked up anew card, discussed what they had in hand, and chosea card to discard.
Block b24 is an interruption segmentin which conversants switched their conversation to theinterruption game.
No claim is made that the game andcard blocks are discourse segments according to Groszand Sidner?s definition (1986).4 Defining Initiative ConflictsAn initiative conflict occurs when a conversant?s attemptto show initiative fails because someone else is show-ing initiative at the same time.
Following Whittakerand Stenton (1988), we use utterance tags to determinewhether an utterance shows initiative: forward functionsshow initiative while others do not.
Non-contributionsare viewed as failed attempt to show initiative.
Thus weidentify initiative conflicts as overlapping utterances thatinvolve either a forward function and a non-contributionor two non-contributions.Figure 2 gives an example of an initiative conflict fromFigure 1: An excerpt of an MTD dialoguethe MTD corpus.
The top conversant says ?that?s pair ofthrees and pair of fours?, which ends at time point A. Af-ter a short pause, at time B, the bottom conversant asks?how many threes do you have?, which is overlapped bythe top conversant?s second utterance ?I?ll drop?
at timeC.
The top conversant then abandons the attempt of show-ing initiative at time D. Hence the bottom speaker is thewinner of this initiative conflict.We use the term preceding-pause to refer to the timeinterval between the end of the previous utterance andthe first utterance that is involved in the overlap (from Ato B in Figure 2).
Offset refers to the interval betweenthe start times of the two overlapped utterances (from Bto C).
Duration refers to the time interval from the begin-ning of overlap till the end of overlap (from C to D).In the Trains corpus, there are 142 cases of overlap-ping speech, 28 of which are initiative conflicts.
Of theremaining, 96 cases involve a backward function (e.g.
anacknowledgment overlapping the end of an inform), and10 cases involve a stall.
The remaining 8 cases are othertypes of overlap, such as a collaborative completion, orconversants talking about the same thing: for example,one saying ?we are a bit early?
and the other saying ?weare a little better?.In the MTD corpus, there are 383 cases of overlappingspeech, 103 of which are initiative conflicts.
Of the re-maining, 182 cases involve a backward function, 21 casesinvolve a stall, and 77 cases are others.
Initiative conflicts19Figure 2: An illustration of an initiative conflictare more frequent in the MTD corpus (103 cases in 90min) than in the Trains corpus (28 cases in 45 min).There are three cases in the Trains and thirteen cases inthe MTD corpus where the preceding-pause is negative,i.e.
the first overlapped utterance is started before theother conversant finishes the previous utterance.
Some-times the hearer starts a little bit early to take the turn.
Ifthe original speaker does not intend to release the turn,a conflict arises.
Because these cases involve three ut-terances, we exclude them from our current analysis andsave them for future research.1 This leaves 25 cases inthe Trains corpus and 90 cases in the MTD corpus foranalyzing initiative conflicts.5 Avoiding Initiative ConflictsIn this section, we show that conversants try to avoid ini-tiative conflicts by examining both the offset of initiativeconflicts and the urgency levels.5.1 Offset of Initiative ConflictsThe offset of an initiative conflict indicates where theconflict happens.
A short offset indicates that the conflicthappens at the beginning of an utterance, while a longoffset indicates an interruption in the middle.Figure 3 shows the cumulative distribution function(CDF) for offsets for both corpora individually.
The meanoffset is 138ms for the Trains corpus, and 236ms forthe MTD corpus.
In comparison to the average lengthof forward utterances (2596ms in the Trains corpus and1614ms in the MTD corpus), the offset is short.
More-over, in the Trains corpus, 88% of offsets are less than300ms (and 80% less than 200ms); in the MTD corpus,75% of offsets are less than 300ms.
Thus most initiativeconflicts happen at the beginning of utterances.1These cases of negative value preceding-pause are in factvery interesting.
They seem to contradict with Sacks etal.
(1974)?s model that the hearer has priority to self select tospeak.
If Sacks et al is correct, the speaker should wait a cer-tain amount of time in order not to overlap with the hearer, butin these cases we see that the speaker self-selects to speak with-out taking into account whether the hearer self-selects to speakor not.0 500 1000 150000.10.20.30.40.50.60.70.80.91Offset (ms)PercentageA: Trains0 500 1000 150000.10.20.30.40.50.60.70.80.91Offset (ms)PercentageB: MTDFigure 3: CDF plot for offsets of initiative conflictsFew initiative conflicts have offsets longer than 500ms.There is one instance in the Trains corpus and eleven inthe MTD corpus.
Four cases are because the second con-versant has something urgent to say.
For example, whenan interruption game is timing out, conversants would in-terrupt, sometimes in the middle of an utterance, whichresults in a long offset.
Another six cases are due to mis-cues.
Figure 4 shows an example.
Conversant B said ?Ihave two aces?
with end-of-utterance intonation, pausedfor about half a second, and then added ?and a seven?.The ending intonation and the pause probably misledconversant A to believe that B had finished, and thus Astarted a new forward utterance, which overlapped withB?s extension.
A?s utterance was then quickly abandoned.In these cases, it is ambiguous whether B?s utterance ?Ihave two aces ... and a seven?
should be further choppedinto two utterances.
The final two cases are intrusions,with an example shown in Figure 5.
Conversant A cut inprobably because he was confident with his decision andwanted to move on to the next card.
In such cases, theintruder might be perceived as being rude.20B: I have two aces and a sevenA: I have .Figure 4: Long offset: miscueB: well let?s justA: it?s no help I think it goes awayFigure 5: Long offset: intrusionThe preponderance of short offsets provides evidencethat conversants try to avoid initiative conflicts.
When Adetects that B is talking, A should not attempt to showinitiative until the end of B?s utterance in order to avoidconflicts, unless there is an urgent reason.
If conversantsdid not take into account whether someone else is speak-ing before attempting initiative, we would see a lot of in-trusions in the middle of utterances, which in fact rarelyhappen in the two corpora.
As we have shown, initiativeconflicts tend to happen at the beginning of utterances.Thus initiative conflicts occur mainly due to unintentionalcollision, i.e.
both conversants happen to start speakingalmost at the same time.
The fact that the offset of mostinitiative conflicts is within 300ms confirms this.25.2 Urgency Level and Initiative ConflictsTo further support the hypothesis that conversants avoidinitiative conflicts except for urgent reasons, we exam-ined the MTD corpus for the correlation between the ur-gency levels of the interruption game and initiative con-flicts.
For the urgency level of 10 seconds, conversantsstarted 33 interruption games, 8 of which were intro-duced via initiative conflicts.
For 25 seconds, conversantsstarted 36 interruption games, 5 introduced via initiativeconflicts.
For 40 seconds, conversants started 33 interrup-tion games, 3 introduced via initiative conflicts.
Thus thepercentages of initiative conflicts for the three urgencylevels are 24% for 10 seconds, 14% for 25 seconds, and9% for 40 seconds.
The urgency level of 10 secondsrequires conversants to start the interruption game veryquickly in order to complete it in time.
On the other hand,the urgency level of 40 seconds allows conversants ampletime to wait for the best time to start the game (Heemanet al, 2005).
Thus we see the percentage of initiativeconflicts decreases as it becomes less urgent to the inter-ruption game.
These results suggest that conversants tryto avoid initiative conflicts if they can, unless there is anurgent reason.6 Resolving Initiative ConflictsIn this section, we present evidence that initiative con-flicts, if they occur, are resolved very quickly using sim-ple devices.2This 300ms might be related to human reaction time.0 500 1000 1500 2000 2500 3000 3500 400000.20.40.60.81Length(ms)PercentageA: TrainsDuration of initiative conflictsLength of forward utterances0 500 1000 1500 2000 2500 3000 3500 400000.20.40.60.81Length(ms)PercentageB: MTDDuration of initiative conflictsLength of forward utterancesFigure 6: CDF plot for durations of initiative conflictstogether with lengths of forward utterances6.1 Duration of Initiative ConflictsThe duration of an initiative conflict, as defined in Sec-tion 4, indicates how quickly the conflict is resolved.
Fig-ure 6 shows the cumulative distribution function of dura-tions of initiative conflicts and the lengths of forward ut-terances in the two corpora.
The mean duration is 328msin the Trains corpus and 427ms in the MTD corpus.
FromFigure 6 we see that the duration is much shorter than thelength of forward utterances, which have the mean lengthof 2596ms in the Trains corpus and 1614ms in the MTDcorpus.
The difference between duration of initiative con-flicts and length of forward utterances is statistically sig-nificant (p < 10?5, ttest).
On average, the duration ofinitiative conflicts is about 1/8 the length of forward ut-terances in the Trains corpus and about 1/4 in the MTDcorpus.
The short durations suggest that initiative con-flicts are resolved very quickly.According to Crystal and House (1990), the averagelength of CVC syllable is about 250ms.
Thus on aver-age, the length of initiative conflicts is about one to twosyllables.3 In fact, 96% of conflicts in the Trains corpusand 73% in the MTD corpus are resolved within 500ms.These observations are consistent with one of Schelogff?s(2000) claims about turn-taking conflicts, that they usu-ally last less than two syllables to resolve.6.2 Resolution of Initiative ConflictsFrom our definition of initiative conflict, at least one ofthe speakers has to back off.
For expository ease, we re-3It would be interesting to examine the length of initiativeconflicts based on syllable.
However currently we do not havesyllable-level alignment for the two corpora.
We leave this forfuture research.21fer to the person who gets the turn to contribute as thewinner, and the other who fails as the yielder.
There aretwo cases in the Trains corpus and three cases in the MTDcorpus in which both speakers abandoned their incom-plete utterances, paused for a while, and then one of themresumed talking.
These five cases are treated as ties: nowinners or yielders, and are excluded from our analysishere.Given how quickly initiative conflicts are resolved, weexamined whether the resolution process might be depen-dent on factors presented before the conflict even begins,namely who was speaker in the previous utterance, andwho was interrupted.
If we predict that the conversantwho spoke prior to the conflict (speaker of u262 in Fig-ure 2) loses, we get 55% accuracy in the Trains corpusand 61% accuracy in the MTD corpus.
If we predictthe conversant who spoke first in the overlap (speaker ofu263 in Figure 2) wins, we get 60% accuracy in the Trainscorpus and 53% accuracy in the MTD corpus.
These lowpercentages suggest that they are not robust predictors.We next examined how conversants resolve the con-flicts using devices such as volume, pitch, and others.6.2.1 VolumeFor a stretch of speech, volume is calculated as the meanenergy of the spoken words.
For each initiative conflict,we calculated each conversant?s volume during the over-lap, and then normalized it with respect to the conver-sant?s volume throughout the whole conversation.4 Werefer to this as relative volume.
In the Trains corpus, theaverage relative volume of the winner is 1.06; the averagerelative volume of the yielder is 0.93.
The difference isstatistically significant (P < 0.01, anova).
In the MTDcorpus, the average relative volume of the winner is 1.12;the average relative volume of the yielder is 0.98.
The dif-ference is also statistically significant (p < 10?6, anova).These results show that the winner is the one speaking ata higher relative volume.To strengthen our argument, we also calculated volumeratio as the relative volume of the winner divided by theyielder.
The average volume ratio in the Trains corpus is1.16 and in the MTD corpus is 1.18.
If a classifier alwayschooses the speaker with higher relative volume to be thewinner, we achieve about 79% accuracy in both corpora,which is a 29% absolute improvement over random pre-diction.
These results further confirm that the conversantwho speaks at a higher relative volume wins the initiativeconflicts.Given the importance of volume in the resolution pro-cess, we examined whether it has an impact on the du-ration of initiative conflicts.
Figure 7 plots the relation4Normalization is necessary particularly as conversantsheard each other via headsets, and the microphones were notcalibrated to have exactly the same gains.0 200 400 600 800 1000 1200 1400 16000.60.811.21.41.61.822.22.42.6Duration of initiative conflicts (ms)VolumeratioFalse predictionFigure 7: Volume ratio and duration of conflictsbetween volume ratio and duration of conflicts for allthe cases in the two corpora.
For reference, the dot-ted line divides the data points into two groups: underthe line are what volume ratio fails to predict the win-ner, and above the line are success.
If we look at thepoints where volume ratio succeeds, we see that whenduration of initiative conflicts is long, volume ratio tendsto be small: in fact, the average volume ratio for initiativeconflicts shorter than 600ms is 1.27; for long than 600msis 1.13; and the difference is statistically significant (ttest,p < 0.01).To further understand how volume is used in the reso-lution procedure, we examined how volume changes dur-ing the overlap.
For initiative conflicts whose duration islonger than 600ms, we cut the overlapped speech evenlyin half, and calculated the relative volume for each halfindividually.
For the first half, the average relative vol-ume of the winner is 1.03, and the yielder is 1.02.
Thedifference is not statistically significant (p = 0.93, pairedttest).
For the second half, the average relative volume ofthe winner is 1.20, and the yielder is 1.02.
The differenceis statistically significant (p < 0.001, paired ttest).
Thefact that these long initiative conflicts are not resolved inthe first half is probably partially due to the close relativevolume.We then calculated volume increment as subtracting therelative volume of the first half from the second half.
Theaverage volume increment of the winner is 0.17; the aver-age volume increment of the yielder is 0.
The differenceis statistically significant (p < 0.001, paired ttest).
Theseresults show that the range of volume increment duringthe overlap by the winner is larger than the yielder.
Thebehavior of increasing volume during overlap to win thefight suggests that conversants use volume as a device toresolve initiative conflicts.226.2.2 PitchWe used the tool WaveSurfer (Sjo?lander and Beskow,2000) to extract the f0 from the audio files.
We calcu-lated relative pitch similarly as we did for volume.In the Trains corpus, the average relative pitch of thewinner is 1.02; the average relative pitch of the yielderis 0.96.
The difference is not statistically significant(P = 0.54, anova).
In the MTD corpus, the averagerelative pitch of the winner is 1.09; the average relativepitch of the yielder is 0.98.
The difference is statisticallysignificant (p < 0.001, anova).
If we choose the speakerwith higher pitch to be the winner, we achieve about 65%accuracy in the Trains corpus and 62% in the MTD cor-pus.
These results suggest that pitch alone is not robustfor predicting the winner of initiative conflicts, at leastnot as predictive as volume, although we do see the ten-dency of higher pitch by the winner.We also examined pitch range in the window of 100msand 300ms respectively.
We calculated the pitch rangeof the overlapping speech and then normalized it withrespect to the conversant?s pitch range throughout thewhole conversation.
We did not see a significant corre-lation between pitch range and the winner of initiativeconflicts.
Thus pitch does not seem to be a device forresolving initiative conflicts.6.2.3 Role of ConversantsHuman-computer dialogues often have a user interact-ing with a system, in which the two have very differentroles.
Hence, we investigated whether the conversant?srole has an effect in how initiative conflicts are resolved.We focused on the Trains corpus due to both its rich dis-course structure and the difference in the roles that thesystem and the use have.In the Trains corpus, if we predict that the initiator ofa discourse segment wins the conflicts, we get 65% ac-curacy.
In system-initiated segments, the system wins alleight conflicts; however, in user-initiated segments, theuser only wins seven and system wins eight.
The userdoes not have an advantage during initiative conflicts inits segments.
Moreover, if the initiator had an advantage,we would expect the system to have fought more stronglyin the user-initiated segments in order to win.
However,we do not see that the relative volume of the system win-ning in user-initiated segments is statistically higher thanin system-initiated segments in this small sample size(p = 0.9, ttest).
The initiator does not seem to have aprivileged role in the resolution process.From the above analysis, we see that the system winsthe conflicts 16 out of 23 times.
Thus if we predict thatthe system always wins the conflicts, we achieve 70%accuracy.
This is not surprising because the system hasall the domain information, and is more experienced insolving goals.
If the system and user want to speak atthe same time, both would know that the system proba-bly has a more significant contribution.
That the systemwins most of the initiative conflicts agrees with Guinn(1998) that capability plays an important role in deter-mining who to show initiative next.7 DiscussionIn this paper, we present our empirical study of humanbehavior in initiative conflicts.
Our first finding is thatconversants try to avoid initiative conflicts.
The conse-quence of initiative conflicts is that at least one of theconversants would have to back off, which makes theireffort of contributing in vain.
Moreover, the effort ofresolving initiative conflicts is overhead to the dialogue.According to the theory of least collaborative effort byClark and Wilkes-Gibbs (1986), it only makes sense forconversants to interrupt when the loss of not interruptingis higher than the cost of an initiative conflict.
Thus thetheory of least collaborative effort is consistent with ourconclusion that most initiative conflicts are unintentionalcollisions, except where conversants interrupt in the mid-dle of an utterance for urgency reasons.The second finding of our research is that initiativeconflicts, when they occur, are efficiently resolved.
Wefound that volume plays an important role: the louderspeaker wins.
We also show how conversants changetheir volume to resolve initiative conflicts.
Conversantsprobably identify their eagerness of speaking, confidencein what they want to say, and capability of achieving thecurrent goal by means of volume, which resolves the ini-tiative conflicts very quickly.Domain settings obviously have an impact on conver-sants?
initiative behavior.
There are more frequent initia-tive conflicts in the MTD corpus than in the Trains cor-pus.
Moreover, the roles of the conversants also affecttheir initiative behavior as we found that the system winsmore initiative conflicts in the Trains corpus.
In a teacher-student conversation, one would expect to see that theteacher interrupts the student more often than vice versa,but also that the teacher wins more initiative conflicts.Capability, culture, and social relationship probably aresome underlying elements that influence when and underwhat conditions conversants would seek initiative, whilevolume is a device for resolving initiative conflicts.8 Future WorkIn this paper we focused on initiative conflicts in dialoguewhere two conversants cannot see each other.
In face-to-face conversation, there might be other cues, such as eye-contact, head-nodding, and hand gesture, that conversantsuse in initiative conflicts.
Moreover, in a multi-party con-versation, a conversant might talk to different people ondifferent topics, and get interrupted from time to time,23which leads to an initiative conflict involving multiplespeakers.
In our future work, we plan to examine ini-tiative conflicts in face-to-face multi-party conversation,such as the ICSI corpus (Shriberg et al, 2004).Inspired by the findings on human behavior of initia-tive conflicts, we speculate that conversants might alsohave a mechanism to even minimize unintentional ini-tiative conflicts, which probably includes devices suchas volume, pause, and other prosodic features.
Thespeaker uses these devices, as opposed to explicitly in-forming each other of their knowledge to evaluate capa-bility (Guinn, 1998), to implicitly signal his or her ea-gerness, confidence and capability.
The hearer then com-pares his or her own eagerness with the speaker?s, anddecides whether to just make an acknowledgement (al-lowing the speaker to continue the lead) or to take overthe initiative when taking the turn to speak.
In our futurework, we plan to build an initiative model to capture thisnegotiation process.ReferencesJennifer Chu-Carroll and Michael K. Brown.
1998.
Anevidential model for tracking initiative in collabora-tive dialogue interactions.
User Modeling and UserAdapted Interaction, 8:215?253.Herbert H. Clark and Deanna Wilkes-Gibbs.
1986.
Re-ferring as a collaborative process.
Cognitive Science,22:1?39.Robin Cohen, C. Allaby, C. Cumbaa, M. Fitzgerald,K.
Ho, B. Hui, C. Latulipe, F. Lu, N. Moussa, D. Poo-ley, A. Qian, and S. Siddiqi.
1998.
What is initiative?User Modeling and User Adapted Interaction, 8:171?214.Mark G. Core and James F. Allen.
1997.
Coding dia-logues with the DAMSL annotation scheme.
In Work-ing Notes: AAAI Fall Symposium on CommunicativeAction in Humans and Machines, pages 28?35, Cam-bridge.Thomas H. Crystal and Arthur S. House.
1990.
Articula-tion rate and the duration of syllables and stress groupsin connected speech.
Journal of Acoustical Society ofAmerica, 88:101?112.Starkey Duncan.
1974.
On the structure of speaker-auditor interaction during speaking turns.
Languagein Society, 2:161?180.Barbara J. Grosz and Candace L. Sidner.
1986.
Atten-tion, intentions, and the structure of discourse.
Com-putational Linguistics, 12(3):175?204.Curry I. Guinn.
1998.
An analysis of initiative selectionin collaborative task-oriented discourse.
User Model-ing and User Adapted Interaction, 8:255?314.Susan Haller and Timothy Fossum.
1999.
Using pro-tocols to model mixed initiative interaction.
In Pro-ceedings of AAAI Workshop on Mixed Initiative Intel-ligence.Peter A. Heeman and James F. Allen.
1995.
The Trainsspoken dialogue corpus.
CD-ROM, Linguistics DataConsortium.Peter A. Heeman, Fan Yang, Andrew L. Kun, andAlexander Shyrokov.
2005.
Conventions in human-human multithreaded dialogues: A preliminary study.In Proceedings of Intelligent User Interface (short pa-per session), pages 293?295, San Diego CA.Eric Horvitz.
1999.
Principles of mixed-initiative userinterfaces.
In Proceedings of CHI, pages 159?166,Pittsburgh PA.Harvey Sacks, Emanuel A. Schegloff, and Gail Jefferson.1974.
A simplest systematics for the organization ofturn-taking for conversation.
Language, 50(4):696?735.Emanuel A. Schegloff.
2000.
Overlapping talk andthe organization of turn-taking for conversation.
Lan-guage in Society, 29:1?63.E.
Shriberg, R. Dhillon, S. Bhagat, J. Ang, and H. Carvey.2004.
The ICSI meeting recorder dialog act corpus.
InProceedings of the 5th SIGdial Workshop on Discourseand Dialogue.Ka?re Sjo?lander and Jonas Beskow.
2000.
WaveSurfer:An open source speech tool.
In Proceedings of ICSLP,pages 4:464?467, Beijing China.Ronnie W. Smith.
1993.
Effective spoken natural lan-guage dialogue requires variable initiative behavior:an empirical study.
In AAAI93 Fall Symposium OnHuman-Computer Collaboration.Susan E. Strayer, Peter A. Heeman, and Fan Yang.
2003.Reconciling control and discourse structure.
In J. VanKuppevelt and R. W. Smith, editors, Current and NewDirections in Discourse and Dialogue, chapter 14,pages 305?323.
Kluwer Academic Publishers.Siew Leng Toh, Fan Yang, and Peter A. Heeman.
2006.An annotation scheme for agreement analysis.
In Pro-ceedings of INTERSPEECH, Pittsburgh PA.Marilyn Walker and Steve Whittaker.
1990.
Mixed ini-tiative in dialogue: An investigation into discourse seg-mentation.
In Proceedings of 28th ACL.Steve Whittaker and Phil Stenton.
1988.
Cues and con-trol in expert-client dialogue.
In Proceedings of 28thACL, pages 123?130.Fan Yang, Peter A. Heeman, Kristy Hollingshead, andSusan E. Strayer.
2007.
Dialogueview: Annotatingdialogues in multiple views with abstraction.
NaturalLanguage Engineering.
To appear.24
