Proceedings of NAACL HLT 2007, Companion Volume, pages 173?176,Rochester, NY, April 2007. c?2007 Association for Computational LinguisticsThe Effects of Word Prediction on Communication Rate for AACKeith Trnka, Debra Yarrington, John McCaw,and Kathleen F. McCoyDepartment of Computer and Information SciencesUniversity of Delaware Newark, DE 19716trnka,yarringt,mccaw,mccoy@cis.udel.eduChristopher PenningtonAgoraNet, Inc.314 East Main Street, Suite 1Newark, DE 19711penningt@agora-net.comAbstractIndividuals using an Augmentative andAlternative Communication (AAC) de-vice communicate at less than 10% ofthe speed of ?traditional?
speech, creat-ing a large communication gap.
In thisuser study, we compare the communica-tion rate of pseudo-impaired individualsusing two different word prediction algo-rithms and a system without word pre-diction.
Our results show that word pre-diction can increase AAC communicationrate and that more accurate predictionssignificantly improve communication rate.1 IntroductionCommunication is a significant quality-of-life issuefor individuals with severe speech impairments.
Thefield of Augmentative and Alternative Communica-tion (AAC) is concerned with mitigating commu-nication barriers that would otherwise isolate indi-viduals from society.
Most high-tech AAC devicesprovide the user with an electronic letter and wordboard to input messages which are output via speechsynthesis.
However, even with substantial user inter-face optimization, communication rate is often lessthan 10 words per minute (Newell et al, 1998) ascompared to about 150-200 words per minute forunimpaired speech.One way to improve communication rate is to de-crease the number of keys entered to form a mes-sage.
Word prediction is an application of languagemodeling to allowing the user to access words theymay be spelling at a cost of one keystroke.
Manycommercial AAC devices use word prediction, suchas PRC?s PathfinderTM, Dynavox Technology?s Dy-navox 4TM, and Saltillo?s ChatPCTM.Although word prediction is used in AAC de-vices, researchers have questioned whether it ac-tually increases communication rate (Venkatagiri,1993; Koester and Levine, 1997; Anson et al,2004).
These works note the additional cognitivedemands and cost of using word prediction in con-junction with a letter-by-letter interface, such as theneed to shift the focus of attention to the predictionlist, the time to scan the prediction list, and the cog-nitive effort required for making decisions about thepredicted words.
Obviously the design of the par-ticular interface (e.g., the ease of using word pre-diction) will affect these results.
In addition, thesestudies used a single, simplistic method of generat-ing predictions, and this may also be responsible forsome of their results.In contrast, other researchers (Lesher and Hig-ginbotham, 2005; Li and Hirst, 2005; Trnka etal., 2006) have continued to investigate various im-provements to language modeling for word pre-diction in order to save the user more keystrokes.Newer methods such as topic modeling yield sta-tistically significant keystroke savings over previ-ous methods.
However, the question remains as towhether improvements in prediction methods trans-late to an enhanced communication rate.
We hypoth-esize that it will.In this paper we study (1) whether a word pre-diction interface increases communication rate over173letter-by-letter typing when a reasonable predictionmethod is employed and (2) whether an advancedword prediction method increases communicationrate over a basic word prediction method to a degreegreater than that afforded by the difference in theo-retical keystroke savings between the two methods.We expect that the communication rate gain due tothe better word prediction method will exceed thegains from the poorer system.
Our reasons for thisexpectation has to do with not only users wastingtime scanning lists that do not contain the desiredword, but also the tendency for a user to give up onsuch a system (i.e., choosing to ignore the predic-tions) and thus missing the predicted word even if itdoes appear in the list.
Validating these hypotheseswill motivate continued improvements in word pre-diction methods for increased communication rate.The target population of our research is adultAAC users without significant cognitive impair-ments.
Including actual AAC users in the studyposes several significant complications, perhaps thelargest of which concerns the user interface.
AACdevices vary significantly in the physical interfacesavailable, in accordance with the variety of physi-cal abilities of AAC users.
This diversity has causeddifferent word prediction interfaces to be developedfor each physical interface.
Moreover, it would beimpossible to mimic our word prediction layout in aconsistent fashion on all of the major AAC devicesused.
Because of this, we conducted this pilot studyusing subjects that are pseudo-impaired: the subjectshave no motor impairments but we have simulateda motor impairment by providing an interface thatemulates the communication rate of a typical AACuser.
Future work includes the verification of the re-sults using a smaller number of actual AAC users.2 ApproachThe purpose of the study was to measure the effectsof word prediction methods on communication rate.To this end, the interface used for text entry was opti-mized for ease-of-use and kept constant across trials.Subjects were asked to enter text on a touchscreenmonitor using WivikTM, an on-screen keyboard.
Be-cause we wanted to simulate AAC users with mo-tor impairments, we programmed a 1.5 second de-lay between a key press and its registration in thesystem.
The artificial impairment gave the subjectsthe same incentive to use word prediction that AACusers face every day, whereas users with fine motorcontrol tend to ignore word prediction (e.g., in com-mon word processing software).
The delay slows theinput rate of our subjects down to a rate more typicalof AAC users (about 8-10 words per minute).Seventeen adult, native speakers of English withno visual, cognitive, or motor impairments partic-ipated in the study.
These subjects were asked totype in three different excerpts from held-out data ofthe Switchboard corpus on three different days.1 Ineach of these sessions, a different prediction methodwas used and the order of prediction methods wasrandomized across subjects.
Keystrokes and pre-dictions were logged and then post-processed tocompute the words produced per minute, secondsper keystroke, and keystroke savings, among otherstatistics.2.1 Independent variable: prediction methodsThe independent variable in our study is the methodof text entry used: (1) letter-by-letter typing usingthe Wivik keyboard with no word prediction, (2)letter-by-letter typing augmented with word predic-tions produced by a basic prediction method, (3)letter-by-letter typing augmented with word predic-tions produced by an advanced prediction method.Basic prediction generates predictions from thecombination of a recency model of the text enteredso far in conjunction with a large word list.
Therecency model is given priority in generating pre-dictions.
This model is similar to language modelsused in AAC devices with the exception that manydevices use a unigram model in lieu of a word list.Advanced prediction generates predictions onthe basis of a trigram model with backoff.
A spe-cial unigram model is used for the first word ineach sentence.
This language model is constructedfrom the transcribed telephone conversations of theSwitchboard corpus.
If the prediction list isn?t filledfrom this model?s predictions, then predictions areselected from a recency model and then a word list,as in the basic prediction method.1Switchboard was chosen because our prediction modelswere trained using another portion of the corpus.
A copy taskwas chosen for more controlled experimental conditions.174Adv.
prediction Basic prediction No predictionWords per minute (wpm) 8.09 5.50 5.06Time (seconds) 1316s 1808s 2030sSeconds per keystroke (spk) 2.92s 2.58s 2.28sKeystroke savings (ks) 50.3% 18.2% -Potential keystroke savings (pks) 55.2% 25.0% -Prediction utilization (pru) 90.9% 73.3% -Figure 1: Average statistics for each method.3 ResultsOnce the data was collected, we post-processed thelogs and accumulated statistics.
Average values foreach method are shown in Figure 1 and comparativevalues are shown in Figure 2.3.1 Communication rate (output rate)The overall average words per minute and task com-pletion time for each method is shown in Figure 1,and Figure 2 shows comparative data for the threemethods.
As hypothesized, advanced prediction wasfound to be significantly faster than basic predictionand basic prediction was found to be significantlyfaster than no prediction (?
= 0.01).
For example,users produced 59.9% more words per minute usingadvanced prediction compared to no prediction.
Ad-vanced prediction was 44.4% faster than basic pre-diction but basic prediction was only 10.1% fasterthan no prediction.Additionally, the relative task completion time isshown in Figure 2.
The copy tasks with advancedprediction were completed in 64.5% of the time ittook to complete without word prediction.
The trendshown with relative task completion time reinforcesthe trends shown with words per minute ?
advancedprediction offers a large speedup over no predictionand basic prediction, but basic prediction offers amuch smaller increase over no prediction.Our results show that basic word prediction sig-nificantly boosts communication rate and that ad-vanced word prediction substantially increases com-munication rate beyond basic prediction.3.2 Input rate (seconds per keystroke)Figures 1 and 2 indicate that there were significantdifferences (at ?
= 0.01) in the methods in termsof the rate at which keys were pressed.
In partic-ular, while overall communication rate was signif-icantly faster with advanced prediction, users took0.641 seconds longer for each key press from us-ing advanced prediction compared to entry withoutprediction.
Similarly, users spent 0.345s longer toenter each key using advanced as opposed to basicprediction and basic prediction required more timeper keystroke than no prediction.
The slower inputrate can be attributed to the additional demands ofsearching through a prediction list and making a de-cision about selecting a word from that list over con-tinuing to type letters.3.3 Keystroke savings / prediction utilizationThe difference between the potential keystroke sav-ings offered by advanced and basic prediction is sub-stantial: 55.2% vs. 25.0%, as shown in Figure 1.Accordingly, the actual keystroke savings that usersrealized under each prediction method shows a wideseparation: 50.3% for advanced and 18.2% for ba-sic.
The keystroke savings that users of basic predic-tion achieved seems quite a bit lower than the poten-tial keystroke savings offered by the predictions.
Inother words, the prediction utilization of basic pre-diction was much lower than that of advanced pre-diction.
Comparative analysis shows a 17.1% im-provement in prediction utilization from advancedover basic prediction.4 DiscussionThe results show that communication rate increaseddespite the decreased input rate due to a large reduc-tion in the amount of input required (high keystrokesavings).
In the past, researchers have noted that thecognitive load of using word prediction was consid-erable, so that the keystroke savings of word pre-175Adv.
over None Adv.
over Basic Basic over NoneRelative task completion time 0.6451 0.7011 0.9191Words per minute (wpm) 59.9% faster2 44.4% faster2 10.1% faster2Seconds per keystroke (spk) 0.641s2 0.345s2 0.286s2Prediction utilization (pru) 17.1%2Figure 2: Average per-subject improvements.
(1 Significance not tested.
2 Significant at ?
= 0.01.
)diction was outweighed by the overhead of usingit.
However, we have shown that despite significantcognitive load, the reduction in keystroke savingsdominates the effect on output rate.In contrast to earlier studies, our basic methodshowed a significantly improved communicationrate over no prediction.
One reason for this couldbe the intuitiveness of our user interface.
A secondreason could be related to the consistency of the ba-sic prediction method.
In particular, at least somesubjects using the basic prediction method learnedto scan the prediction list when the desired word wasrecently used and mentioned it in the exit survey.
Atother times they simply ignored the prediction listand proceeded with letter-by-letter typing.
This be-havior would also explain why the input was sig-nificantly slower with the advanced method over thebasic method ?
users found that scanning the predic-tion list more often was worth the added effort.
Thisalso explains the significant difference in predictionutilization between the methods.The relationship between keystroke savings andcommunication rate is a trend of increasing rateenhancement with increasingly accurate predictionmethods.
Improved prediction methods offer greaterpotential keystroke savings to users and users seeincreased keystroke savings in practice.
Addition-ally, users rely on better predictions more and thuslose less of the potential keystroke savings offeredby the method.
We expect that keystroke savingswill see substantial increases from improved poten-tial keystroke savings until prediction utilization iscloser to 100%.5 ConclusionsWord prediction in an experimental AAC devicewith simulated AAC users significantly enhancescommunication rate.
The difference between an ad-vanced and basic prediction method demonstratesthat further improvements in language modeling forword prediction are likely to appreciably increasecommunication rate.
Therefore, further research inimproving word prediction is likely to have an im-portant impact on quality-of-life for AAC users.
Weplan to improve word prediction and validate theseresults using AAC users as future work.AcknowledgmentsThis work was supported by US Department of Ed-ucation grant H113G040051.ReferencesDenis Anson, Penni Moist, Mary Przywars, HeatherWells, Heather Saylor, and Hantz Maxime.
2004.The effects of word completion and word predictionon typing rates using on-screen keyboards.
AssistiveTechnology, 18.Heidi Horstmann Koester and Simon P. Levine.
1997.Keystroke-level models for user performance withword prediction.
Augmentative and Alternative Com-munication, 13:239?257, December.Gregory W. Lesher and D. Jeffery Higginbotham.
2005.Using web content to enhance augmentative commu-nication.
In Proceedings of CSUN 2005.Jianhua Li and Graeme Hirst.
2005.
Semantic knowl-edge in word completion.
In ASSETS ?05, pages 121?128.Alan Newell, Stefan Langer, andMarianne Hickey.
1998.The ro?le of natural language processing in alternativeand augmentative communication.
Natural LanguageEngineering, 4(1):1?16.Keith Trnka, Debra Yarrington, Kathleen F. McCoy, andChristopher A. Pennington.
2006.
Topic modeling infringe word prediction for aac.
In IUI ?06, pages 276?278.Horabail S. Venkatagiri.
1993.
Efficiency of lexicalprediction as a communication acceleration technique.Augmentative and Alternative Communication, 9:161?167, September.176
