Proceedings of the NAACL-HLT 2007 Doctoral Consortium, pages 29?32,Rochester, April 2007. c?2007 Association for Computational LinguisticsSemantic Frames in Romanian Natural Language Processing SystemsDiana Maria Trandab?
?Faculty of Computer Science, ?Al.I.Cuza?
University of Ia?i &Institute for Computer Science, Romanian Academy, Ia?i Branch16, Gen. Berthelot, 700483-Ia?i, Romaniadtrandabat@info.uaic.roAbstractInterests to realize semantic frames data-bases as a stable starting point in develop-ing semantic knowledge based systemsexists in countries such as Germany (theSalsa project), England (the PropBank pro-ject), United States (the FrameNet project),Spain, Japan, etc.
I thus propose to create asemantic frame database for Romanian,similar to the FrameNet database.
Sincecreating language resources demands manytemporal, financial and human resources, apossible solution could be the import ofstandardized annotation of a resource de-veloped for a specific language to otherlanguages.
This paper presents such amethod for the importing of the FrameNetannotation from English to Romanian.1 IntroductionThe realization of human-computer interaction innatural language represents a major challenge inthe context of aligning Romania to existing tech-nologies.The proposed project aims to introduce the se-mantic frames and contexts, which define a con-cept?s sense according to its facultative ormandatory valences (Baker and Fillmore, 1998), toRomanian NLP systems.
The behavior of the Ro-manian clauses ?
mainly the verbal group, aroundwhich all the other sentence complements gravi-tates in a (more or less) specific order ?
has beenclosely debated in the last years (Irimia, 1997; Do-brovie-Sorin, 1994; Monachesi, 1998; Barbu,1999), creating a proper frame for the introductionof semantic roles.This paper presents the steps considered for theachievement of this project.
Thus, Section 2 givesa very brief description of the frame semantics, andSection 3 presents the realization of a semanticstructures database for the Romanian language,similar to those existing for English, German, orSpanish, containing detailed information about therelations between the semantic meaning and thesyntax of the words.
In the last section, some pos-sible applications of the detection of semantic rolesto written and spoken texts are mentioned (ques-tion answering systems, summarization systems,prosody prediction systems), before drawing somefinal conclusions.2 Frame SemanticsThe FrameNet (FN) lexical-semantic resource isbased on the principles of Frame Semantics (FS).From FS point of view, the semantic/syntactic fea-tures of ?predicational words?1 (Curteanu, 2003-2004) are defined in a particular semantic frame.The sentences are schematic representations ofdifferent situations, including different partici-pants, objects or other conceptual roles.
Being alinguistically transposed experience, a sentencerepresents an event scenario that is structuredaround a semantic head.
The meaning of this head1 Words, mostly verbs, but also several nouns and adjectives,bearing a predicational feature, viz.
demanding a specificsemantic argument structure in order to complete their mean-ing.29can be understood only by expressing the coreframe elements and can, optionally, be enrichedwith other semantic features, by expressing somenon-core frame elements.Fillmore (1968) divides the language representa-tion into two structures: Surface Structure (the syn-tactic knowledge) and Deep Structure (thesemantic knowledge).
The language process beginsat the Deep Structure level with a non-verbal rep-resentation (an idea or a thought) and ends in theSurface Structure, as we express ourselves.The Case Notions are representations at a se-mantic level of the lexical arguments.
This inven-tory of cases comprises universal concepts,possible innate, sufficient for the classification ofthe verbs of a language and reusable in all lan-guages.
The list of Fillmore Cases, which will beconsidered for the project, includes: Agent, In-strument, Dative, Experiencer, Locative, Object,etc.3 A Parallel Romanian/English FrameNetUsing Annotation ImportThe first step in the realization of the Romaniancorpus of annotated semantic frames was the man-ual translation of 110 randomly selected sentencesfrom the English FN.
In order to align the Roma-nian version with the English one, a larger corpuswas needed, so the translation continued with theEvent frame, summing up to 1094 sentences.
Thisframe was selected due to its rich frame to framerelations (Inheritance ?
Change_of_consistency,Process_start, etc., Subframe - Change_of_state_scenario and Using - Process_end).
After the se-lection of the clauses and their translation, the Ro-manian sentences were aligned with the Englishones using the aligner developed by the Institute ofResearch in Artificial Intelligence (Tufi?
et al,2005).
The next step was the automatic import ofthe English annotation, followed by a manual veri-fication, a detection of the mismatching cases andan optimization process which, based on inferencerules, corrects the automatic annotation.3.1 Automatic annotation importThe intuition behind the importing program(Trandab??
et al, 2005) is that most of the framesdefined in the English FN are likely to be validcross-linguistically, because semantic frames ex-press conceptual structures, language independentat the deep structure level.
The surface realizationis realized according to each language syntacticconstraints.The automatic importing program is based onthe correlation of the semantic roles expressed inEnglish with the translation equivalents in Roma-nian of the words that realize a specific role.
Theautomatic import is manually checked in order toestablish the method efficiency.3.2 The algorithmThe starting point for the German, Japanese andSpanish FN creation was the manual annotation atFE level of existing corpora for each language.
ForRomanian, I propose creating a corpus of semanticroles starting from the translation of (a part of) theEnglish corpus of annotated sentences (see Figure1).Using the XML files of the annotated Englishsentences, and the alignment files where each Eng-lish word is linked to its corresponding Romaniantranslation, I automatically created a set of XMLfiles containing a corpus of FE annotated sentencesfor the Romanian language.
An example of im-ported annotation for the English lexical unit ?oc-cur?
is presented in figure 2.Figure 1.
The architecture of the importing programAlignment filesFrame ExtractorProgramFrameFilesEnglishXM L for thelexical unitsRomanianXM L for thelexical unitsImportingprogramFN.xmlFN.align30Figure 2.
Example of annotation set for EnglishThe <annotationSet> tag indicates that a new sen-tence is annotated.
Inside this tag, the <layers> tagsets the annotation layer (FE - Frame Element, GF- Grammatical Function or PT - Phrase Type) andthe <sentence> tag encloses the text.
The labels areapplied to the words in <text>, indexed by theircharacter.
For example, the tag:<label name="Event" ID="19909459"cDate="june 2006" start="0" end="9"/>indicates that the Event frame element is startingwith the first character of the sentence an stops atthe 9th, meaning that the Event FE corresponds to?Incidentul?
(en.
The incident).The general algorithm of the automatic import-ing program focuses on:?
reading of the input XML files;?
labeling of each English word with thecorresponding semantic role (FE)?
converting the character indexes into aword level annotation;?
mapping the English words with thealigned Romanian correspondences, hencewith the respective semantic role;?
writing an output XML file containing theRomanian annotated corpus.For example, the lexical unit ?occur.v?
will ap-pear in English and Romanian annotated as:[Incidental]Event A AP?RUT [dup?
o disput?
?ntre individ ?i persona]time/cause [la ofilial?
a B?ncii Irlandeze din Cahir]Place.The incident]Event OCCURRED [after a dis-pute between the man and staff]time/cause [ata branch of the Bank of Ireland in Ca-hir]Place3.3 OptimizationMy initial experiment has involved the translationof approx.
1000 sentences from English FN.
Thetranslations have been realized by professionaltranslators, so the errors propagated in the corpusshould be minimal.
The reported problems duringthe translation relate mainly to the lack of the con-text of English sentences, which generate differenttranslation variants.
However, if the English se-mantic frame is considered, this problem is sur-mountable.The alignment process was performed with thealigner developed by the Institute of Research inArtificial Intelligence (Tufi?, 2005), which is con-sidered to have a precision of 87.17% and a recallof 70.25%.
However, the aligner results weremanually validated before entering the annotationimport program.The assessment of the correctitude of the ob-tained Romanian corpus is preformed manually.The first results of the annotation import show anoverall accuracy of approx.
80%.
The validationfocuses on detecting the cases where the importhas failed, trying to discover if the problems aredue to the translation or to the semantic or syntac-tic specificities of Romanian.
Only few translationerrors were found, and even then, the meaning hasbeen kept and the semantic roles were correctlyassigned.
However, there were cases where theFEs are expressed in English, but are implicit inthe Romanian translation, as in:[Blood]Undergoer had CONGEALED [thickly]Manner[on the end of the smashed fibula]Place .
[S?ngele]Undergoer se ?NGRO??
[spre cap?tulfibulei zdrobite]Place .or not-expressed in English, but expressed in Ro-manian, as the Protagonist role in :QUIT [smoking]Process .L?SA?I-[v?
]Protagonist [de fumat]Process .The frame generation program based on the gener-ated Romanian corpus is currently under develop-ment.<annotationSet ID="1" status="AUTOMATIC"><layers><layer ID="6375447" name="FE"><labels><label name="Event" ID="19909459"cDate="june 2006" start="0" end="9" /><label name="Time" ID="19909462"cDate="june 2006" start="20" end="59" /><label name="Place" ID="19909465"cDate="june 2006" start="61" end="101" /></labels></layer>...........<layer ID="6375452" name="Target"><labels><label name="Target" ID="19905041"cDate="june 2006" start="11" end="18" /></labels></layer><layer ID="6375453" name="Verb" /></layers><sentence ID="671" aPos="103724676"><text>Incidentul a ap?rut dup?
o disput?
?ntre individ ?i personal la o filial?
aB?ncii Irlandeze din Cahir .</text></sentence></annotationSet>314 ConclusionsIn this paper, I have presented a fast method forthe realization of a Romanian corpus annotatedwith semantic frame relations.
The main purposeof creating a quick semantic annotated database isusing it as training corpus for automatic labeledsemantic frames detection.
Nowadays, expensivelinguistic resources demanding a lot of time,money and human resources are created for differ-ent languages.
After their utility is proved, thoseresources begin to be imported to other languages(see for instance the MultiSemCor project2).
In thiscontext, the realization of a Romanian FN is achallenging project in the frame of Romance FN.The import method was preferred to the ?classi-cal?
creation by hand of a manually annotated cor-pus because of its possible automation.
Iinvestigate currently the possibility of using atranslation engine for the most time consumingtask, namely the translation of the English sen-tences.
The project will be further developed byadding to the automatic import program rules dis-covered though the analysis of the mismatchingcases.The lack of semantic information was very ob-vious while working on the QA@CLEF competi-tion3 (Question Answering task within the CrossLanguage Evaluation Forum Competition) lastyear (Pu?ca?u et al, 2006); having the semanticframes database (thus a semi-automatic role label-ing system) can improve the precision of selectingan appropriate snippet for the desired answer, notto mention also the benefits for answer generation.Another application of the semantic frames I aminterested in is prosody prediction.
Within the In-stitute of Computer Science, I have begin to workat a syntax-prosody interface for Romanian basedon FDG trees of sentences and other syntacticalinformation to discover the phonological entitiesunderlying the written text and the topic/focus ar-ticulation.
The algorithm for finding sentence fo-cus uses the semantic roles as a main component.ReferencesBaker, C., Fillmore, Ch., Lowe, J., The Berkeley Fra-meNet project, in Proceedings of the COLING-ACL,Montreal, Canada, 19982 http://multisemcor.itc.it/3 http://clef-qa.itc.it/2006bis/CLEF-2006.htmlBarbu, A-M, The Verbal Complex.
Linguistic Studiesand Enquires, L, no.1, Bucharest, p. 39-84 (In Roma-nian).
1999Curteanu, N.: Contrastive Meanings of the Terms?Predicative?
and ?Predicational?
in Various Lin-guistic Theories (I, II).
Computer Science Journal ofMoldova (R. Moldova), Vol.
11, No.
4, 2003 (I);Vol.
12, No.
1, 2004 (II)Curteanu, N., Trandab?
?, D., Moruz, M.: Substructuresof the (Romanian) Predicate and Predication UsingFX-bar Projection Functions on the Syntactic Inter-face, in Proc.
of the 4th European Conference on In-telligent Systems and Technologies - ECIT2006, Ia?i,Romania, 2006.Dobrovie-Sorin, C, The syntax of Romanian.
Compara-tive Studies.
Berlin: Mouton de Gruyter, 1994Fillmore, Ch., The case for case; in Bach and Harms(Eds.
), Universals in Linguistic Theory, Ed.
Holt,Rinehart, and Winston, New York, 1968Husarciuc M, Trandab??
D., Lupu M., Inferring Rules inImporting Semantic Frames from English FrameNetonto Romanian FrameNet, 1st ROMANCE Frame-Net Workshop, EUROLAN, Cluj, Romania 2005Irimia, D. The Morphosyntax of the Romanian Verb.
Ed.of the ?Al.
I. Cuza?
Ia?i University (in Romanian).1997Monachesi, P., The Morphosyntax of Romanian Clitici-zation.
in: P. A. Coppen et al (Eds.
), Proceedings ofComputational Linguistics in The Netherlands, pp.99-118, Amsterdam-Atlanta: Rodopi.
1998Pu?ca?u, G., Iftene, A., Pistol, I.,  Trandab?
?, D., Tufi?,D., Ceau?u, A., ?tef?nescu, D., Ion, R., Or?
?an, C.,Dornescu, I., Moruz, A., Cristea, D., Developing aQuestion Answering System for the Romanian-English Track at CLEF 2006, CLEF 2006 Workshop,Alicante, Spain, to be published in LNCSTrandab?
?, D., Husarciuc, M., Lupu, M., Towards anautomatic import of English FrameNet frames intothe Romanian language, 1st ROMANCE FrameNetWorkshop, EUROLAN, Cluj, Romania, 2005Tufi?, D., Ion R., Ceau?u, Al., Stef?nescu, D., Com-bined Aligners in Proceeding of the ACL2005 Work-shop on ?Building and Using Parallel Corpora: Data-driven Machine Translation and Beyond?, Ann Ar-bor, Michigan, June, 200532
