Proceedings of the NAACL-HLT 2007 Doctoral Consortium, pages 25?28,Rochester, April 2007. c?2007 Association for Computational LinguisticsDynamic Use of Ontologies in Dialogue SystemsJoana Paulo PardalDepartment of Information Systems and Computer EngineeringInstituto Superior Te?cnico, Technical University of LisbonLisbon, Portugaljoana@l2f.inesc-id.ptAbstractMost dialogue systems are built with a sin-gle task in mind.
This makes the exten-sion of an existing system one of the ma-jor problems in the field as large parts ofthe system have to be modified.
Some re-cent work has shown that ontologies havea role on the domain knowledge represen-tation as the knowledge collected in an on-tology can be used in all the modules.
Thiswork aims to follow the footsteps of theuse of ontologies in dialogue systems andtake it further as the current state of the artonly uses taxonomical knowledge.1 IntroductionAt the present time, the Spoken Language Sys-tems Lab (L2F) integrates a project in the ?Houseof the Future?
at the Portuguese CommunicationsFoundation.
The house has a spoken dialogue sys-tem (Moura?o et al, 2004) based on TRIPS architec-ture (Allen et al, 2005) where a virtual butler na-med ?Ambro?sio?
helps the user in daily tasks thatdeal with devices and services, through speech com-mands.
Whenever clarification is needed, further di-alogue is entailed.
To act in response to the user, thesystem needs to know which devices are connected,which services are available and what actions can beperformed.
Currently, this information is stored foreach service or device: the available operations, theneeded parameters and the possible values for eachone.
This kind of architecture is very common in thefield.
Nevertheless it?s still hard to extend an exis-ting system because it?s always necessary to adaptlots of features in the system.Recent work from Filipe (2006) has enhanced theaccess to the services and abstracted the databaseview in order to create an Application ProgrammingInterface (API).
The main contribution of that workis a Domain Knowledge Manager (DKM) advisorservice, which suggests the best task-device pairs tosatisfy a request.
Additionally, a DKM recognizerservice to identify the domain concepts from a natu-ral language request is proposed.
A hybrid approachis used to design ubiquitous domain models to al-low the dialogue system to recognize the availabledevices and tasks they provide on-the-fly.But more work is still needed to ease the dynamicconfiguration of dialogue systems and to deal witha set of arbitrary plug-and-play devices.
The maingoal of this work is to pursue the work done by Fi-lipe.2 State of the artThis work encompasses knowledge and techniquesfrom two different areas: dialogue systems and on-tologies.
This work has to deal with the challengesfrom all these areas.2.1 Dialogue SystemsSince the 1980s, the Natural Language Processingcommunity has used spoken dialogue systems as acase study (Colea et al, 1997).
This option is ex-plained by the simplicity that comes from the tre-atment of restricted domains.
The multidisciplina-rity involved is one of the richnesses of this field as25it brings together people from several communitieslike signal processing ?
for speech recognition (Ju-rafsky and Martin, 2000) and synthesis (Huang etal., 2001); artificial intelligence ?
for interpretationof the spoken utterances (Allen, 1987); and softwareengineering ?
for more efficient architectures (Mc-Tear, 2002).
But the complexity of these systemsmakes them expensive to develop (Allen et al, 2000)and difficult to adapt to new types of users, servi-ces, languages and scenarios (Turunen and Hakuli-nen, 2003).With the proliferation of databases, some workhas been done to take advantage of the knowledgestructure and organization to dynamically extendexisting systems to new domains, devices and ser-vices.2.2 OntologiesOntologies aim at capturing static domain kno-wledge in a generic way and providing a commonlyagreed understanding of a given domain.
The mainpurpose is to share and reuse that knowledge acrossapplications.
The field of Ontologies appeared in the1990s (Gruber, 1993), but only lately has been per-ceived as more valuable, as some effective resultsare being achieved with their use, reuse and sharing.Being so, an ontology is a formalized shared spe-cification of a conceptualization.
Mainly, a domainontology collects the relevant concepts of a domainand the relations between them.
An ontology usu-ally also represents some formal restrictions verifiedin the domain.
Therefore, ontologies usually havethree types of entities: classes, relations, and axi-oms.Currently the main challenges in this area in-clude the definition of a clear building process (Pintoand Martins, 2004), automatic learning of ontolo-gies (Maedche and Staab, 2004), transparent accessto information (Gil et al, 2005) and efficient infe-rence based on the available knowledge (Baader etal., 2003).
Some work has been done where databa-ses and other legacy knowledge sources are replacedby ontologies in different types of domains with suc-cess (Grau et al, 2005).2.3 Use of Ontologies in Dialogue SystemsSeparating the domain knowledge from the languagefeatures of the spoken dialogue systems has pro-ven to reduce the complexity of a dialogue system?scomponents.
Moreover, if the domain knowledge isalready available, reusing it is crucial to reduce theeffort needed to build a new dialogue system or toextend an existing one into a new subject.
Some re-cent work has shown the advantages of the use ofOntologies for these tasks.Milward and Beveridge (2003) maintain that theontology-based dialogue system for home informa-tion and control provides a dynamically reconfigu-rable system were new devices can be added andusers can subscribe to new ones; asynchronous de-vice input is allowed; unnatural scripted dialoguesare avoided; and a flexible multimodal interactionfor all users including the elderly and the disabled isprovided.
Also, the recognition, interpretation, ge-neration and dialogue management are more flexibleas the knowledge coded on the ontology can be useddynamically.Flycht-Eriksson (2004) argues that the separationof the dialogue management from the domain kno-wledge management is crucial to reduce the comple-xity of the systems and enhance further extensions.Both these works focus on the IS-A and PART-OF relations to solve under/over specification.
Thisis helpful in medical-related dialogue systems thatneed taxonomical knowledge of the domain.
Usingmore relations is still a challenge as the complexityincreases.3 Main goalsThe main goal of this project is to enhance spokendialogue systems to make them more general anddomain-independent.
This means that knowledgeshould be introduced in the system more easily andtransparently.
To do this, the dialog managementshould be separated from the domain knowledgemanagement.
This should be done not only by as-signing a system module to it (the service manager)that has to be adapted to each domain, but, additi-onaly, by defining the kind of domain knowledgeneeded and creating an abstraction to represent it.For example, the dialogue system needs to know thepossible words in the next expected response fromthe user and that depends mainly on the domain.This separation eases the creation of mechanisms totreat the common dialogue phenomena.
A library26for these phenomena should be reused in dialoguesystems across all domains.Contributions from the ontologies field will be ex-plored in regard to knowledge manipulation in a ge-neric spoken dialogue system.
As said before, somework has been done in the field but, at least fornow, most of the work is reduced to the hierarchi-cal knowledge (classes and IS-A relations) and un-der/over specification (PART-OF relations) that usu-ally are represented on the ontologies.
The extra-taxonomical knowledge is still being ignored butshould be considered as that is the main richness ofontologies.The most interesting topic is whether ontologiescan enrich a spoken dialogue system and be usedby it in such a way that the system can abstract theknowledge source thus allowing the system to focusonly on dialogue phenomena and rather than the ar-chitecture adaptation that has to be done in order toinclude new domains.The definition of the dialogue system as the ins-tantiation of a spoken dialogue system will be ex-plored after the existing dialogue systems and onto-logies have been studied and categorized accordingto the tasks they perform and the used knowledgesources.4 Completed WorkAn ontology on the cooking domain has beenbuilt (Ribeiro et al, 2006; Batista et al, 2006).
Thisontology still hasn?t been used but it will be includedin our dialogue systems to provide help during theexecution of a recipe.
Currently an undergraduatestudent is enriching this ontology with a collectionof recipes automatically extracted from text.Also, a first prototype version of a cooking butlerhas been implemented.
It lets the user choose froma list of recipes one to be dictated to him.
Forwardand rewind commands are available.
This work isstill preliminary as it doesn?t use any ontology.
Itwas done by two undergraduate students as a proofof concept that our current system can be extendedto a dictating task.5 Future directionsSince the PhD is still on going, lots of work is yet tobe done.
The next step to achieve the main goal ofthis work is to study the existing dialogue systemswith emphasis on the performed tasks and the usedknowledge sources.
Beyond the simple enumerationof all the published systems, the aim is to create acategorization of dialogue systems according to thetasks they allow and to the type of knowledge theyuse independent of the used knowledge representa-tion primitives (classes, relations and axioms).5.1 Tasks to be performed?
A survey on the existing ontologies accordingto the coded information: classes, relations andaxioms.?
Exploratory work on how to manage the do-main knowledge transparently, focusing on theintegration of ontologies in dialogue systems.?
Arrange the current architecture to consider notonly the TRIPS architectural proposal, but thecontributions coming from the ontological fi-eld.
The separation of the dialogue manager intwo modules should be considered here: onemodule for the dialogue features independentfrom the domain and other for the domain kno-wledge management.?
Adapt the existing L2F?s spoken dialogue sys-tem to the identified requirements in order touse domain knowledge from an ontology.?
Use the proposed methodology to include a co-oking ontology on the L2F?s dialogue system toextend it to new domains.?
Include ontologies from different domains.
Anentertainment (Theatre, Movies, etc) domainontology is being build.5.2 Intelectual Contributions?
Classification of the existing dialogue systemsaccording to the type of information they needand use;?
Classification of the used ontologies in dialo-gue systems according to the information co-ded and the used classes, relations and axioms;?
Propose an architecture where the contributionof each module is clearer and where the infor-mation flows both forward and backward;27?
Propose a methodology for the integration ofontologies into general dialogue systems accor-ding to their classification;?
Integration of a cooking ontology into the exis-ting dialogue system;?
Integration of another ontology into another di-alogue system (from UoR).ReferencesJames Allen, Donna Byron, Myroslava Dzikovska, Ge-orge Ferguson, Lucian Galescu, and Amanda Stent.2000.
An architecture for a generic dialogue shell.Natural Language Engineering, 6(3).James Allen, George Ferguson, Mary Swift, AmandaStent, Scott Stoness, Lucian Galescu, NathanaelChambers, Ellen Campana, and Gregory Aist.
2005.Two diverse systems built using generic componentsfor spoken dialogue (recent progress on TRIPS).
InAnn Arbor, editor, Proc.
of the Interactive Poster andDemonstration Sessions at the 43rd Annual Meeting ofACL, pages 85?88, Michigan, USA.James F. Allen.
1987.
Natural Language Understanding.Benjamin Cummings, 2nd edition.Franz Baader, Diego Calvanese, Deborah McGuinness,Daniele Nardi, and Peter Patel-Schneider, editors.2003.
The Description Logic Handbook: Theory, Im-plementation, and Applications.
Cambridge Univer-sity Press.Fernando Batista, Joana Paulo Pardal, Paula VazNuno Mamede, and Ricardo Ribeiro.
2006.
Onto-logy construction: cooking domain.
Technical report,INESC-ID, Lisboa, Portugal.Ron Colea, Joseph Mariani, Hans Uszkoreit, Gio-vanni Batista Varile, Annie Zaenen, Antonio Zampolli,and Victor Zue (editors), editors.
1997.
Survey ofthe State of the Art in Human Language Technology.CSLU, CMU, Pittsburgh, PA.Porf?
?rio Pena Filipe and Nuno J. Mamede.
2006.
A do-main knowledge advisor for dialogue systems.
In In-ternational Joint Conference IBERAMIA/SBIA/SBRN2006 ?
4th Workshop in Information and Human Lan-guage Technology.Annika Flycht-Eriksson.
2004.
Design and Use of On-tologies in Information-providing Dialogue Systems.Ph.D.
thesis, School of Engineering at Linko?ping Uni-versity.Yolanda Gil, Enrico Motta, Richard Benjamins, andMark Musen, editors.
2005.
The Semantic Web ?
4thISWC, volume 3729 of LNCS.
Springer, Ireland.Bernardo Cuenca Grau, Ian Horrocks, Bijan Parsia, andPeter Patel-Schneider, editors.
2005.
What Have On-tologies Ever Done For Us: Potential Applications ata National Mapping Agency, volume 188.Thomas R. Gruber.
1993.
A translation approach to por-table ontology specifications.
Knowledge Acquisition,5(2):199?220.Xuedong Huang, Alex Acero, and Hsiao-Wuen Hon.2001.
Spoken Language Processing: A Guide to The-ory, Algorithm, and System Development.
PrenticeHall.Daniel Jurafsky and James H. Martin.
2000.
Speechand Language Processing: An Introduction to NaturalLanguage Processing, Speech Recognition, and Com-putational Linguistics.
Prentice-Hall.Alexander Maedche and Steffen Staab, 2004.
Handbookon Ontologies, chapter Ontology learning.
Internatio-nal Handbooks on Information Systems.
Springer.Michael McTear.
2002.
Spoken dialogue technology:enabling the conversational interface.
ACM Compu-ting Surveys, 34(1):90?169.David Milward and Martin Beveridge.
2003.
Ontology-based dialogue systems.
In 3rd Workshop on Kno-wledge and Reasoning in Practical Dialogue Systems?
18th IJCAI03.Ma?rcio Moura?o, Renato Cassaca, and Nuno Mamede.2004.
An independent domain dialog system througha service manager.
In Proc.
of 4th Intl.
Conf.
EsTAL,pages 161?171.
Springer-Verlag.H.
Sofia Pinto and Joa?o Pava?o Martins.
2004.
Ontolo-gies: How can they be built?
Knowledge InformationSystem, 6(4):441?464.Ricardo D. Ribeiro, Fernando Batista, Nuno J. MamedeJoana Paulo Pardal, and H. Sofia Pinto.
2006.
Coo-king an ontology.
In 12th Intl.
Conf.
on AI: Methodo-logy, Systems, Applications, volume 4183, pages 213?221, Berlin.Markku Turunen and Jaakko Hakulinen.
2003.
Jaspis2 -an architecture for supporting distributed spoken dia-logues.
In Proc.
of Eurospeech, pages 1913?1916.28
