Proceedings of NAACL HLT 2009: Tutorials, pages 15?16,Boulder, Colorado, June 2009. c?2009 Association for Computational LinguisticsWriting Systems, Transliteration and DeciphermentKevin Knight (USC/ISI)Richard Sproat (CSLU/OHSU)DescriptionNearly all of the core data that computational linguists deal with is in theform of text, which is to say that it consists of language data written (usually) inthe standard writing system for the language in question.
Yet surprisingly littleis generally understood about how writing systems work.
This tutorial will bedivided into three parts.
In the first part we discuss the history of writing andintroduce a wide variety of writing systems, explaining their structure and howthey encode language.
We end this section with a brief review of how some ofthe properties of writing systems are handled in modern encoding systems, suchas Unicode, and some of the continued pitfalls that can occur despite the bestintentions of standardization.
The second section of the tutorial will focus on theproblem of transcription between scripts (often termed ?transliteration?
), andhow this problem?which is important both for machine translation and namedentity recognition?has been addressed.
The third section is more theoreticaland, at the same time we hope, more fun.
We will discuss the problem ofdecipherment and how computational methods might be brought to bear onthe problem of unlocking the mysteries of as yet undeciphered ancient scripts.We start with a brief review of three famous cases of decipherment.
We thendiscuss how techniques that have been used in speech recognition and machinetranslation might be applied to the problem of decipherment.
We end with asurvey of the as-yet undeciphered ancient scripts and give some sense of theprospects of deciphering them given currently available data.OutlineFirst hour:?
History of writing?
Survey of writing systems and how they work?
Modern encodingsSecond hour:?
Problems of transcription (transliteration)?
Generative models of transcriptionBreak15?
More on generative models of transcription?
Discriminative modelsThird Hour?
Famous cases of decipherment?
Prospects for ?autodecipherment??
What?s left to decipher?Target AudienceThis tutorial will be of interest to anyone who wishes to have a better under-standing of how writing (the form of language that most computational linguistsdeal with) works, and how such problems as transcription (transliteration) anddecipherment are approached computationally.BiosKevin Knight is a Research Associate Professor in Computer Science atthe University of Southern California, a Senior Research Scientist and Fellowat the USC/Information Sciences Institute, and Chief Scientist at LanguageWeaver.
Dr. Knight received a Ph.D. from Carnegie Mellon University in 1992,and a bachelor?s degree from Harvard University.
His current interests includebetter statistical machine translation through linguistics, and he is also workingon exploiting cryptographic techniques to solve hard translation problems.Richard Sproat received his Ph.D. in Linguistics from the MassachusettsInstitute of Technology in 1985.
Since then he has worked at AT&T Bell Labs,at Lucent?s Bell Labs and at AT&T Labs ?
Research, before joining the facultyof the University of Illinois, and subsequently the Oregon Health & Science Uni-versity.
Sproat has worked in numerous areas relating to language and compu-tational linguistics, including syntax, morphology, computational morphology,articulatory and acoustic phonetics, text processing, text-to-speech synthesis,writing systems, and text-to-scene conversion.16
