Proceedings of NAACL HLT 2009: Demonstrations, pages 1?4,Boulder, Colorado, June 2009. c?2009 Association for Computational LinguisticsCross-document Temporal and Spatial Person TrackingSystem DemonstrationHeng Ji Zheng ChenQueens College and the Graduate Center The Graduate CenterThe City University of New YorkNew York, NY, 11367hengji@cs.qc.cuny.edu zchen1@gc.cuny.eduAbstractTraditional Information Extraction (IE) sys-tems identify many unconnected facts.
Theobjective of this paper is to define a newcross-document information extraction taskand demonstrate a system which can extract,rank and track events in two dimensions: tem-poral and spatial.
The system can automati-cally label the person entities involved insignificant events as 'centroid arguments', andthen present the events involving the samecentroid on a time line and on a geographicalmap.1 IntroductionInformation Extraction (IE) systems can identify?facts?
(entities, relations and events) of particulartypes within individual documents, and so canunleash the knowledge embedded in texts for manydomains, such as military monitoring, daily news,financial analysis and biomedical reports.
However,most current IE systems focus on processing singledocuments and, except for coreference resolution,operate a sentence at a time.
The result are largedatabases containing many unconnected, unranked,redundant (and some erroneous) facts.McNamara (2001) proved that a high-coherencetext has fewer conceptual gaps and thus requiresfewer inferences and less prior knowledge, render-ing the text easier to understand.
In our task textcoherence is the extent to which the relationshipsbetween events in a text can be made explicit.
Wenoted that linking all events in temporal and spatialdirections for the entire corpus was not feasiblebecause of the large number of event arguments.Grosz et al (1995) claimed that certain entities aremore central than others and that this property im-posed constraints on discourse coherence.
There-fore we have developed a system which can extractglobally salient and novel arguments as centroidarguments, and link all events involving each cen-troid argument on a time line and on a geographi-cal map.Beyond extracting isolated facts from individualsentences, we provide coherent event chains so thatthe users can save time in connecting relevantevents and conducting reasoning, such as trackinga person?s movement activities and an organiza-tion?s personnel changes.
This will provide a richerset of views than is possible with document clus-tering for summarization or with topic tracking.
Inaddition, such cross-document extraction resultsare indexed and allow a fast entity searchingmechanism.
Beyond traditional search, the systemcan correlate and organize information across dif-ferent time series by temporal tracking, and deliverto users in different geographies by spatial tracking.The rest of this paper is structured as follows.Section 2 presents the overall system architectureincluding the baseline system and the detailed ap-proaches to extract event chains.
Section 3 thenpresents the experimental results compared to tra-ditional IE.
Section 4 demonstrates the system out-put.
Section 5 compares our approach with relatedwork and Section 6 then concludes the paper andsketches our future work.2 System OverviewIn this section we will present the overall proce-dure of our system.12.1 Within-document IEWe first apply a state-of-the-art English IE system(Ji and Grishman, 2008) to extract events fromeach single document.
The IE system includes en-tity extraction, time expression extraction andnormalization, relation extraction and event extrac-tion.
Entities include persons, locations, organiza-tions, facilities, vehicles and weapons; Eventsinclude the 33 distinct event types defined inAutomatic Content Extraction (ACE05)1.The event extraction system combines patternmatching with statistical models.
For every eventinstance in the ACE training corpus, patterns areconstructed based on the sequences of constituentheads separating the trigger and arguments.
In ad-dition, a set of Maximum Entropy classifiers aretrained: to distinguish events from non-events; toclassify events by type and subtype; to distinguisharguments from non-arguments; to classify argu-ments by argument role; and given a trigger, anevent type, and a set of arguments, to determinewhether there is a reportable event mention.
In ad-dition, the global evidence from related documentsis combined with local decisions to conduct cross-document inference for improving the extractionperformance as described in (Ji and Grishman,2008).2.2 Centroid Argument DetectionAfter we harvest a large repository of events wecan label those important person entities which areinvolved frequently in events as ?centroid argu-ments?.
Not only are such arguments central to theinformation in a collection (high-frequency), theyalso should have higher accuracy (high-confidence).
In this project we exploit global con-fidence metrics to reach both of these two goals.For an event mention, the within-documentevent classifiers produce the following local confi-dences values:?
LConf(trigger,etype): The probability of astring trigger indicating an event mention withtype etype.?
LConf(arg, etype): The probability that a men-tion arg is an argument of some particularevent type etype.1 http://www.nist.gov/speech/tests/ace/?
LConf(arg, etype, role): If arg is an argumentwith event type etype, the probability of arghaving some particular role.We use the INDRI information retrieval system(Strohman et al, 2005) to obtain the top N relateddocuments for each test document to form a topi-cally-related cluster.
The intuition is that if an ar-gument appears frequently as well as with highextraction confidence in a cluster, it is more salient.For each argument arg we also added other personnames coreferential with or bearing some ACErelation to the argument as argset.In addition we developed a cross-document per-son name disambiguation component based onheuristic rules to resolve ambiguities among cen-troid arguments.
Then we define the following globalmetric weighted with the local confidence values tomeasure salience, and generate the top-ranked entitiesas centroid arguments.?
Global-Confidence(arg): The frequency ofargset appearing as an event argument in acluster, weighted by local confidence values:LConf(trigger,etype)*LConf(arg, etype)*LConf(arg, etype, role).2.3 Cross-document Event Aggregation andGlobal Time DiscoveryIf two events involve the same centroid argument,we order them along a time line according to theirtime arguments and group them into specific geo-graphical locations based on their place arguments.When ordering a pair of entity arguments, we re-place pronouns with their coreferential names ornominals, and replace nominals with their corefer-ential names, if applicable.
If the normalized datesare the same for two events, we further comparethem based on their time roles (e.g.
?time-end?should be ordered after ?time-beginning?
).We start from aggregating events by mergingcoreferential event mentions using the within-document coreference resolution component in theIE system.
However, the degree of similarityamong events contained in a group of topically-related documents is much higher than within adocument, as each document is apt to describe themain point as well as necessary shared background.2Relation Eventi Arguments Eventj Arguments Centroid Event Type Event TimeCoreference Entity[Ariel Sharon]Place [Jerusalem]Entity[Sharon]Place[Jerusalem]Powell Contact-Meet2003-06-20Subset Entity[Bush] Entity[Bush]Place[Camp David]Blair Contact-Meet2003-03-27Subsumption Destination[Mideast] Destination[Egypt] Bush Movement-Transport2003-06-02ComplementSentence[nine-year jail]Crime[corruption]Adjudicator[court]Place[Malaysia]Sentence[nine-year prison]AnwarIbrahimJustice-Sentence2003-04-18Table 1.
Cross-document Event Aggregation ExamplesTherefore in order to maximize diversity, wemerge any pair of events that have the same eventtype and involve the same centroid argument, viaone of the operations in Table 1.3 Experimental ResultsWe used 10 newswire texts from ACE 2005 train-ing corpora as our test.
For each test text we re-trieved 25 related texts from English TopicDetection and Tracking (TDT-5)2 corpus which intotal consists of 278,108 texts.
The IE system ex-tracted 179 event mentions including 140 Namearguments.
We define an argument is correctlyextracted if its event type, offsets, and role matchany of the reference argument mentions.We found that after ranking with the global con-fidence metrics, the top-ranked event argumentsare substantially more accurate than the argumentsas a whole: the overall accuracy without ranking isabout 53%; but after ranking the top 85 arguments(61% of total) get accuracy above 70% and the top116 arguments (83% of total) are above 60% accu-racy.
It suggests that aggregating and rankingevents according to global evidence can enableusers to access salient and accurate informationrapidly.4 DemonstrationIn this section we will demonstrate the results onall the documents in the English TDT5 corpus.
Intotal 7962 person entities are identified as centroidarguments.
The offline processing takes aboutthree hours on a single PC.
The real time browsingonly takes one second in a standard web browser.2 http://projects.ldc.upenn.edu/TDT5/Figure 1 and Figure 2 present the temporal andspatial event chains involving the top 5 centroidarguments: ?Bush?, ?Arafat?, ?Taylor?, ?Saddam?and ?Abbas?.
The events involving each centroidare ordered on a time line (Figure 1) and associatedwith their corresponding geographical codes in amap (Figure 2).The users can drag the timeline and map tobrowse the events.
In addition, the aggregatedevent arguments are indexed and allow fast cen-troid searching.
Each argument is also labeled byits global confidence, language sources, and linkedto its context sentences and other event chains it isinvolved.
We omit these details in these screen-shots.Figure 1.
Temporal Person Tracking3Figure 2.
Spatial Person Tracking5 Related WorkRecently there has been heightened interest in dis-covering temporal event chains.
For example,Bethard and Martin (2008) applied supervisedlearning to classify temporal and causal relationssimultaneously.
Chambers and Jurafsky (2008)extracted narrative event chains based on commonprotagonists.
In this paper we import these ideasinto IE while take into account some major differ-ences.
Following the original idea of centering(Grosz et al, 1995) and the approach of centeringevents involving protagonists (Chambers and Ju-rafsky, 2008), we introduce a new concept of ?cen-troid arguments?
to represent those entities whichare involved in all kinds of salient events fre-quently.
We operate cross-document instead ofwithin-document, which requires us to resolvemore conflicts and ambiguities.
In addition, westudy the temporal and spatial linking task on topof IE results.
In this way we extend the representa-tion of each node in the chains to a structured ag-gregated event including fine-grained informationsuch as event types, arguments and their roles.6 Conclusion and Future WorkIn this paper we described several new modes forbrowsing and searching a large collection of newsarticles, and demonstrated a system implementingthese modes.
We introduced ranking methods intoIE, so that the extracted events are connected intotemporal and spatial chains and presented to theuser in an order of salience.
We believe these newforms of presentation are likely to be highly bene-ficial, especially to users whose native language isnot English, by distilling the information landscapecontained in the large collection of daily news arti-cles ?
making more information sources accessibleand useful to them.On the other hand, for the users searching newsabout particular person entities, our system cansuggest a list of centroid event arguments as keywords, and provide a brief story by presenting allconnected events.
We believe this will signifi-cantly speed up text comprehension.
In this paperwe only demonstrated the results for person enti-ties, but this system can be naturally extended toother entity types, such as company names to tracktheir start/end/acquire/merge activities.
In addition,we plan to automatically adjust cross-documentevent aggregation operations according to specificcompression ratios provided by the users.AcknowledgmentsThis material is based upon work supported by theDefense Advanced Research Projects Agency un-der Contract No.
HR0011-06-C-0023 via 27-001022, and the CUNY Research EnhancementProgram and GRTI Program.ReferencesSteven Bethard and James H. Martin.
2008.
Learningsemantic links from a corpus of parallel temporaland causal relations.
Proc.
ACL-HLT 2008.Nathanael Chambers and Dan Jurafsky.
2008.
Unsuper-vised Learning of Narrative Event Chains.
Proc.ACL 2008.Barbara Grosz, Aravind Joshi, and Scott Weinstein.1995.
Centering: A Framework for Modelling theLocal Coherence of Discourse.
Computational Lin-guistics, 2(21), 1995.Heng Ji and Ralph Grishman.
2008.
Refining EventExtraction Through Unsupervised Cross-documentInference.
Proc.
ACL 2008.Danielle S McNamara.
2001.
Reading both High-coherence and Low-coherence Texts: Effects of TextSequence and Prior Knowledge.
Canadian Journalof Experimental Psychology.Trevor Strohman, Donald Metzler, Howard Turtle andW.
Bruce Croft.
2005.
Indri: A Language-modelbased Search Engine for Complex Queries (ex-tended version).
Technical Report IR-407, CIIR,Umass Amherst, US.4
