Proceedings of NAACL HLT 2009: Short Papers, pages 197?200,Boulder, Colorado, June 2009. c?2009 Association for Computational LinguisticsThe independence of dimensions in multidimensional dialogue actannotationVolha Petukhova and Harry BuntTilburg Center for Creative ComputingTilburg University, The Netherlands,{v.petukhova,h.bunt}@uvt.nlAbstractThis paper presents empirical evidence for theorthogonality of the DIT++ multidimensionaldialogue act annotation scheme, showing thatthe ten dimensions of communication whichunderlie this scheme are addressed indepen-dently in natural dialogue.1 IntroductionStudies of human dialogue behaviour indicate thatnatural dialogue utterances are very often multifunc-tional.
This observation has inspired the develop-ment of multidimensional approaches to dialogueanalysis and annotation, e.g.
(Allen & Core, 1997) ,(Larsson, 1998), (Popescu-Belis, 2005), (Bunt,2006).
The most frequently used annotation schemethat implements this approach is DAMSL (Allenand Core, 1997), which allows multiple labels to beassigned to utterances in four layers: Communica-tive Status, Information Level, Forward-LookingFunction (FLF) and Backward-Looking Function(BLF).
The FLF layer is subdivided into five classes,including (roughly) the classes of commissive anddirective functions, well known from speech act the-ory.
The BLF layer has four classes: Agreement,Understanding, Answer, and Information Relation.These nine classes, also referred to as ?dimensions?,form mutually exclusive sets of tags; no further mo-tivation is given for the particular choice of classes.Popescu-Belis (2005) argues that dialogue acttagsets should seek a multidimensional theoreticalgrounding and defines the following aspects of ut-terance function that could be relevant for choosingdimensions (1) the traditional clustering of illocu-tionary forces in speech act theory into five classes:Representatives, Commissives, Directives, Expres-sives and Declarations; (2) turn management; (3) ad-jacency pairs; (4) topical organization in dialogue;(5) politeness functions; and (6) rhetorical roles.Structuring an annotation scheme by grouping re-lated communicative functions into clusters makesthe structure of the schema more transparent.
Suchclusters or ?dimensions?
are usually defined as aset of functions related to the same type of infor-mation, such as Acknowledging, Signalling Under-standing and Signalling Non-understanding, or Dia-logue Opening and Dialogue Closing.
Bunt (2006)shows that this does not always lead to a notion ofdimension that has any conceptual and theoreticalsignificance, and argues that some of the functionclasses of DAMSL do not constitute proper dimen-sions.In particular, a theoretically grounded multidi-mensional schema should provide an account of thepossible multifunctionality of dialogue utterances.In (Bunt, 2006); (Bunt and Girard, 2005) a dimen-sion in dialogue act analysis is defined as an aspectof participating in dialogue which can be addressed:?
by dialogue acts which have a function specifi-cally for dealing with this aspect;?
independently of the other dimensions.The independence of dimensions, required by thisdefinition, has the effect that an utterance may havea function in one dimension independent of the func-tions that it may have in other dimensions, and helpsto explain why utterances may have multiple func-tions.
Moreover, it leads to more manageable and197more adaptable annotation schemas (compared to,for instance, DAMSL and its derivatives), since it al-lows annotators to leave out certain dimensions thatthey are not interested in, or to extend the schemawith additional dimensions; and it allows restrictingor modifying the set of tags in a particular dimensionwithout affecting the rest of the schema.Based on the above definition and extensive theo-retical and empirical studies, 10 dimensions are de-fined in the DIT++ dialogue act annotation scheme1:the domain or task/activity (Task); feedback on theprocessing of previous utterances by the speaker(Auto-feedback) or by other interlocutors (Allo-feedback); managing difficulties in the speaker?s ut-terance production (Own-Communication Manage-ment, OCM) or that of other interlocutors (PartnerCommunication Management, PCM); the speaker?sneed for time to continue the dialogue (Time Man-agement); establishing and maintaining contact(Contact Management); the allocation of the nextturn (Turn Management); the way the speaker isplanning to structure the dialogue (Dialogue Struc-turing); and attention for social aspects of the inter-action (Social Obligations Management, SOM).This paper investigates the independence of theseten dimensions.
In Section 2 we discuss the notionof independence of dimensions and how it can betested.
Section 3 reports test results and Section 4draws conclusions.2 Independence of dimensionsWe define two dimensions D1 and D2 in an anno-tation scheme to be independent iff (1) an utterancemay be assigned a value in D1 regardless of whetherit is assigned a value in D2; and (2) it is not the casethat whenever an utterance has a value in D1, thisdetermines its value in D2.2Dependences between dimensions can be de-termined empirically by analyzing annotated dia-logue data.
Dimension tags which always co-occurare nearly certainly dependent; zero co-occurrencescores also suggest possible dependences.
Besidesco-occurrence scores, we also provide a statisticalanalysis using the phi coefficient as a measure of1For more information about the scheme and its dimensionsplease visit http://dit.uvt.nl/2See Petukhova and Bunt (2009) for a more extensive dis-cussion.relatedness.
The phi measure is related to the chi-square statistic, used to test the independence of cat-egorical variables, and is similar to the correlationcoefficient in its interpretation.If a dimension is not independent from other di-mensions, then there would be no utterances in thedata which address only that dimension.
We there-fore also investigate to which extent it happens thatan utterance addresses only one dimension.
We alsoinvestigate whether a dimension is addressed only inreaction to a certain other dimension.
For example,the answer dimension as defined in DAMSL cannotbe seen as independent, because answers need ques-tions in order to exist.
The test here is to examine therelative frequencies of pairs <dimension tag, previ-ous dimension tag>.To sum up, we performed four tests, examining:1. the relative frequency of communicative func-tion co-occurrences across dimensions;2. the extent of relatedness between dimensionsmeasure with the phi coefficient;3. for all dimensions whether there are utterancesaddressing only that dimension;4. the relative frequency of pairs of dimension andprevious dimension.3 Test resultsSince different types of dialogue may have differ-ent tag distributions, three different dialogue corporahave been examined:?
The DIAMOND corpus3 of two-party instruc-tional human-human Dutch dialogues (1,408utterances);?
The AMI corpus4 of task-oriented human-human multi-party English dialogues (3,897 ut-terances);?
The OVIS corpus5 of information-seekinghuman-computer Dutch dialogues (3,942 utter-ances).All three corpora were manually segmented andtagged according to the DIT++ annotation scheme.3For more information see Geertzen, J., Girard, Y., andMorante R. 2004.
The DIAMOND project.
Poster at CATA-LOG 2004.4Augmented Multi-party Interaction (http://www.amiproject.org/)5Openbaar Vervoer Informatie System (Public Transport In-formation System) http://www.let.rug.nl/v?annoord/Ovis/198Table 1: Co-occurrences of communicative functions across dimensions in AMI corpus expressed in relative frequency in %implicated and entailed functions excluded and included (in brackets).The test results presented in this section are similarfor all three corpora.The co-occurrence results in Table 1 show nodependences between dimensions, although somecombinations of dimensions occur frequently, e.g.time and turn management acts often co-occur.
Aspeaker who wants to win some time to gather histhoughts and uses Stalling acts mostly wants to con-tinue in the sender role, and his stalling behaviourmay be intended to signal that as well (i.e., to beinterpreted as a Turn Keeping act).
But stalling be-haviour does not always have that function; espe-cially an extensive amount of stallings accompaniedby relatively long pauses may be intended to elicitsupport for completing an utterance.It is also interesting to have a look at co-occurrences of communicative functions taking im-plicated and entailed functions into account (the cor-pora were reannotated for this purpose).
An impli-cated function is for instance the positive feedback(on understanding and evaluating the preceding ut-terance(s) of the addressee) that is implied by an ex-pression of thanks; examples of entailed functionsare the positive feedback on the preceding utterancethat is implied by answering a question, by accept-ing an invitation, or by rejecting an offer.Co-occurrence scores are higher when entailedand implicated functions are taken into account (thescores given in brackets in Table 1).
For example,questions, which mostly belong to the Task dimen-sion, much of the time have an accompanying TurnManagement function, either releasing the turn orassigning it to another dialogue participant, allow-ing the question to be answered.
Similarly, whenaccepting a request the speaker needs to have theturn, so communicative functions like Accept Re-quest will often be accompanied by functions likeTurn Take or Turn Accept.
Such cases contribute tothe co-occurrence score between the Task and TurnManagement dimensions.Table 1 shows that some dimensions do not oc-cur in combination.
We do not find combinations ofContact and Time Management, Contact and Part-ner Communication Management, or Partner Com-munication Management and Discourse Structuring,for example.
Close inspection of the definitions ofthe tags in these pairs of dimensions does not re-veal combination restrictions that would make oneof these dimensions depend on the others.Table 2 presents the extent to which dimensionsare related when the corpus data are annotated withor without taking implicated and entailed functionsinto account, according to the calculated phi coeffi-cient.No strong positive (phi values from .7 to 1.0) ornegative (-.7 to -1.0) relations are observed.
Thereis a weak positive association (.6) between Turnand Time Management (see co-occurrence analysisabove) and between OCM and Turn Management(.4).
Weak negative associations are observed be-tween Task and Auto-feedback (-.5) when entailedand implicated functions are not considered; be-tween Task and Contact Management (-.6); and be-tween Auto- and Allo-feedback (-.6) when entailedand implicated functions are included in the analy-sis.
The weak negative association means that anutterance does not often have communicative func-tions in these two dimensions simultaneously.
Somenegative associations become positive if we take en-tailed and implicated functions into account, be-cause, as already noted, dialogue acts like answers,accepts and rejects, imply positive feedback.199Table 2: Extent of relation between dimensions for AMI corpus expressed in the Phi coefficient (implicated and entailed functionsexcluded (white cells) and included (grey cells)).The third independence test, mentioned above,shows that each dimension may be addressed byan utterance which does not address any other di-mension.
The Task dimension is independently ad-dressed in 28.8% of the utterances; 14.2% of the ut-terances have a function in the Auto-Feedback di-mension only; for the other dimensions these fig-ures are 0.7% - Allo-Feedback; 7.4% - Turn Man-agement; 0.3% - Time Management; 0.1% - ContactManagement; 1.9% - Discourse Structuring; 0.5% -OCM; 0.2% - PCM; and 0.3% - SOM.Table 3: Overview of relative frequency (in%) of pairs of di-mension and previous dimensions by previous utterances ob-served in AMI data, per dimension, drawn from the set of 5pairs from the dialogue history.We finally investigated the occurrences of tagsgiven the tags of the previous utterances, taking fiveprevious utterances into account.
Table 3 shows noevidence of dependences across the dialogue his-tory.
There are some frequent patterns, for example,retractions and self-corrections often follow hesita-tions because the speaker, while monitoring his ownspeech and noticing that part of it needs revision,needs time to construct the corrected part.4 ConclusionsIn this paper we investigated the independence ofthe dimensions defined in the DIT++ dialogue actannotation scheme, using co-occurrences matricesand the phi coefficient for measuring relatedness be-tween dimensions.The results show that, although some dimensionsare more related and co-occur more frequently thanothers, on the whole the ten DIT++ dimensionsmay be considered to be independent aspects ofcommunication.AcknowledgmentsThis research was conducted as part of ISO project24617-2: Semantic annotation framework, Part 2:Dialogue acts, and sponsored by Tilburg University.ReferencesJames F. Allen and Mark G. Core.
1997.
Draft ofDAMSL: Dialog Act Markup in Several Layers.Jens Allwood.
2000.
An activity-based approach to prag-matics.
In Bunt, H., and Black, W.
(eds.)
Abduction,Belief and Context in Dialogue; Studies in Computa-tional Pragmatics, pp.
47?80.
Benjamins, Amsterdam.Harry Bunt and Yann Girard.
2005.
Designing an open,multidimensional dialogue act taxonomy.
In Gardent,C., and Gaiffe, B.
(eds).
Proc.
9th Workshop on theSemantics and Pragmatics of Dialogue, pp.
37?44.Harry Bunt.
2006.
Dimensions in dialogue annotation.In Proceedings of LREC 2006.Mark G. Core and James F. Allen.
1997.
Coding dia-logues with the DAMSL annotation scheme.
In Work-ing Notes: AAAI Fall Symposium on CommunicativeAction in Humans and Machines, pp.
28?35.Staffan Larsson.
1998.
Coding Schemas for DialogueMoves.
Technical report from the S-DIME project.Volha Petukhova and Harry Bunt.
2009.
Dimensionsin communication.
TiCC Technical Report 2009-002,Tilburg University.Andrei Popescu-Belis.
2005.
Dialogue Acts: One orMore Dimensions?
ISSCO Working Paper 62, ISSCO.200
