Human Language Technologies: The 2010 Annual Conference of the North American Chapter of the ACL, pages 254?262,Los Angeles, California, June 2010. c?2010 Association for Computational LinguisticsTesting a Grammar Customization System with SahaptinScott DrellishakUniversity of WashingtonSeattle, WA, USAsfd@u.washington.eduAbstractI briefly describe a system for automaticallycreating an implemented grammar of a natu-ral language based on answers to a web-basedquestionnaire, then present a grammar of Sa-haptin, a language of the Pacific Northwestwith complex argument-marking and agree-ment patterns, that was developed to test thesystem.
The development of this grammarhas proved useful in three ways: (1) verifyingthe correct functioning of the grammar cus-tomization system, (2) motivating the additionof a new pattern of agreement to the system,and (3) making detailed predictions that un-covered gaps in the linguistic descriptions ofSahaptin.1 IntroductionThe LinGO Grammar Matrix(Bender et al, 2002) is a resource for building im-plemented precision HPSG (Pollard and Sag, 1994)grammars of natural languages.
Grammars basedon the Matrix are expressed in the Type DescriptionLanguage (TDL) (Krieger and Sch?fer, 1994), areinterpretable by the Linguistic Knowledge Buildingsystem (LKB) (Copestake, 2002) (a software toolfor developing constraint-based grammars), andhave semantic representations that are compat-ible with Minimal Recursion Semantics (MRS)(Copestake et al, 2005).
The Grammar Matrixproject, in particular the customization systemdescribed below, has drawn on the linguistics andlinguistic typology literature during its develop-ment; the system is now complex enough that it iscapable making contributions back to linguistics.1.1 Matrix Customization SystemIn its earliest form, the Matrix provided a set of pre-defined types intended to give grammar engineersa head start, allowing them to avoid duplicatingthe effort required to develop analyses of linguisticstructures thought to occur in all languages.
How-ever, there exist many linguistic phenomena that arewidespread, but not universal.
If the Matrix wererestricted to supporting only what is truly univer-sal, it would be a much less useful resource forgrammar-writers working on languages containingsuch non-universal phenomena.
Our solution hasbeen to provide the Matrix customization system,which presents a linguist with a web-based typologi-cal questionnaire designed to elicit a description of atarget language and, based on it, automatically pro-duce a grammar that parses and generates the targetlanguage.1 The grammars produced are not encum-bered by phenomena that do not occur in the targetlanguage; rather, they contain just enough complex-ity to model it as described.
Although the grammarsproduced by the customization system are intendedas a starting point for further grammar engineering,that starting point is now far enough along that evenwithout enhancement the grammars can be used forinteresting linguistic work.The customization system is conceived of as con-sisting of a set of libraries, each of which sup-ports a particular linguistic phenomenon, and in-cludes a section of the questionnaire and a syntac-tic analysis of the target phenomenon that can be1A frozen version of the customization sys-tem as described here can be found on the Web atdepts.washington.edu/uwcl/matrix/sfddiss/.254customized and included in output grammars.
Re-cently, I have added three new libraries to the sys-tem (Drellishak, 2009).
A library for case-markingsupports a variety of patterns for the marking of upto two mandatory verbal arguments, including thenominative-accusative, ergative-absolutive, and tri-partite patterns, as well as various split-ergative sys-tems and Austronesian alignment (see Blake (2001)for definitions of these terms).
A library for agree-ment supports agreement in syntactic and seman-tic features between verbs and their arguments.
Fi-nally, a library for so-called direct-inverse argumentmarking supports languages in which the mark-ing of verbs and verbal arguments is conditionedon a grammatical scale?for example, languagesin which clauses with a first person subject and asecond person object are marked differently thanclauses with a second person subject and a first per-son object.
Languages can contain none, some, or allof these phenomena, and the customization systemmust produce consistent grammars for every combi-nation.1.2 Testing the Customization SystemWork to add new libraries to the customization sys-tem is ongoing.
Since the grammatical analysesof different phenomena can interact in unexpectedways, we utilize a system of regression testing toverify that the implementation new libraries does notbreak older libraries.A customization system regression test consistsof three parts.
First, each test includes a storedset of answers to the questionnaire describing a lan-guage that illustrates one or more linguistic phenom-ena; this can be fed into the customization systemto create a grammar.
Second, each test has a listof strings, some grammatical and some ungrammat-ical in the test?s language, that probe the behaviorof the grammar with respect to the phenomena inquestion.
Third, each test has the expected results,including semantic representations in the format ofOepen (2001), that are produced by the grammarwhen it parses the test sentences.At the time of this writing, the regression test suiteincludes 112 tests that fall roughly into two cate-gories.
The first category contains small artificiallanguages that illustrate a single phenomenon (e.g.nominative-accusative case marking or a particularword order).
The second category contains largergrammars based on natural languages that illustratea wider range of phenomena, and therefore test theinteraction of the associated libraries.
The largestand most complex test in the latter category is theregression test for Sahaptin.2 SahaptinSahaptin [uma] (Penutian) is a family of closely re-lated dialects spoken in Washington, Idaho, and Ore-gon.
The details of Sahaptin grammar are drawnprimarily from a description of the language byRigsby and Rude (1996) (henceforth R&R).
It hap-pens that Sahaptin contains extremely complex ar-gument marking and agreement patterns that illus-trate, in a single grammar, a number of phenom-ena covered by my recently-implemented Matrix li-braries, including:?
Case marking on verbal arguments.?
Argument marking sensitive to a grammaticalscale, including patterns analyzed here as prox-imate and obviative marking on third-personnominals.?
Two loci of agreement (a verbal prefix and asecond-position enclitic) with both the subjectand the object.?
A distinction in number between singular, dual,and plural on nominals, but only between sin-gular and plural on agreement morphology.?
An inclusive/exclusive distinction in person re-flected only in the second-position enclitic.2.1 Sahaptin GrammarThis section contains a brief sketch of the structureof Sahaptin sentences.
Consider the following sim-ple sentence:(1) ?n=a?
?-tux?nana y?ama?-naI=1SG 3ABS-shot mule.deer-OBJ?I shot the mule deer.?
[uma](Rigsby and Rude, 1996, 676)In (1) the first word consists of the first person sin-gular pronoun in its unmarked form, the nominative,followed by a second-position enclitic that agreeswith the pronoun.
The second word is the verb, con-sisting of a verbal prefix appropriate to the personand number of the subject and object (glossed by255R&R as 3ABS, but see ?3.6 below for a differentanalysis) and the verb stem.
The third word consistsof the noun stem meaning ?mule deer?
and a suffixmarking the objective case.R&R describe several cases in Sahaptin, includ-ing an unmarked ?nominative?
case, a marked ?ob-jective?
case, an ?inverse ergative?
case, and an ?ob-viative ergative?
case.
In spite of their use of theterm ?ergative?, R&R make it clear that the sub-ject generally appears in the nominative case in bothtransitive and intransitive clauses, and that the objectconsistently appears in the objective case in transi-tive clauses.
The ?inverse ergative?
and ?obviativeergative?
forms only occur with third person singu-lar nominals, both nouns and pronouns, in additionto the subject and object forms, and they are used todistinguish the subject from the object in transitiveclauses.In addition to case marking on nominals, Sahap-tin has two ways to cross-reference the arguments ofverbs: a verbal prefix and a second-position encliticthat attaches to whichever word comes first in thesentence.
R&R characterize the prefixes and encl-itics in two ways: first, they provide a general de-scription of the distribution of each; second, theyprovide detailed paradigms of intransitive and tran-sitive sentence patterns that cover most, but not all,of the logical combinations.Enclitic Description=na?
?
=a?
?
=?
?first-person singular?=na ?first-person pluralinclusive?=nata?
?
=ata?
?
=ta?
?first-person pluralexclusive?=nam ?
=am ?
=m ?second-person singular?=pam ?second-person plural?=ma?
?second-person objectwith first-person subject(both singular)?=mata?
?second-person objectwith first-person subject(one or both plural)?Table 1: Sahaptin enclitics (Rigsby and Rude, 1996, 675)R&R describe Sahaptin?s second-position encli-tics as shown in Table 1.
Notice in particular thatseveral of the enclitics are associated with a per-son and number, but R&R do not mention whetherthose values are associated with the subject or theobject.
The reason for this becomes clear when weexamine the full paradigm of clauses.
The enclitic=nata?, for example, occurs with first person pluralexclusive subjects in intransitive clauses; in transi-tive clauses, however, it occurs when one argumentis first person plural exclusive and the other is thirdperson, regardless of which is the subject and whichis the object.
A similar pattern can be observed for=na and =na?.
This variant of scale-sensitive ar-gument marking motivated an enhancement to thecustomization system described in ?5 below.Prefix Descriptioni- ?third-person nominative?pa- ?third-person plural nominative?
?- ?
?w- ?third-person absolutive?p?- ?inverse?pat?- ?
pat?w- ?third-person plural subject withthird-person object?Table 2: Sahaptin prefixes (Rigsby and Rude, 1996, 675)As for Sahaptin?s verbal prefixes, R&R describethem as shown in Table 2.2 These descriptions areless straightforward than those for the enclitics.
Inparticular, the description of ?- ?
?w- as ?absolu-tive?
is misleading.
Regarding that prefix, R&Rwrite, ?...this pronominal marks subjects in intran-sitive clauses when they are possessors, and objectsin transitive clauses when the subject is first or sec-ond person.?
(675) In other words, it does not occurin all transitive clauses, and only in those intransi-tive clauses where the subject is possessive.
Fur-thermore, all the prefixes above appear on the verb,not the nominal arguments, as one might expect foran ?absolutive?
affix.
In spite of the use of the term?absolutive?, the distribution of the prefix ?- ?
?w-does not give evidence of ergative alignment in Sa-haptin.
Similarly, although there is evidence of argu-ment marking sensitive to a grammatical scale, thedescription of p?- as ?inverse?
is misleading, sincethat prefix does not appear if and only if the objectoutranks the subject.2There are three further verbal prefixes in Sahaptin that markreflexives and reciprocals, but there is currently no support forthese phenomena in the customization system.2563 Sahaptin Test CaseThe phenomena described above make Sahaptin anexcellent test case for demonstrating the flexibilityand expressive power of the customization system.In this section, I will show how a significant frag-ment of Sahaptin can be described in the customiza-tion system questionnaire, producing a grammar thatcorrectly models some of the complexity of Sahap-tin morphosyntax.It should be noted that some aspects of Sahap-tin are beyond the current capabilities of the cus-tomization system, so some simplifying assump-tions were necessary.
For instance, the customiza-tion system models complex morphosyntax but notcomplex morphophonology.
In effect, the grammarsit outputs expect a morpheme-by-morpheme gloss asinput rather than orthography, leaving the problemof morphological analysis to other systems.3 TheSahaptin test grammar therefore uses only a singlespelling for each stem and morpheme, and the mor-phemes are separated by ?-?
or ?=?
characters.
Thefacts of Sahaptin word order are also too complexfor the customization system; in particular, it can-not model truly free word order (i.e., discontinuousnoun phrases), and the attachment behavior of thesecond-position enclitic is similarly beyond its ca-pability.
However, given these simplifying assump-tions, the customization system is capable of model-ing all the agreement and marking patterns of Sa-haptin intransitive and transitive clauses shown inTables 7 and 8 in R&R (1996, 676).After the design and implementation of the li-braries for case, direct-inverse languages, and agree-ment were completed, the construction of the Sa-haptin test case took only about 80 hours of work,including the creation of test sentences (describedin more detail in ?4 below), a linguistic analysis ofSahaptin, filling out the questionnaire to reflect thatanalysis, and debugging the answers to the question-naire.3.1 Word OrderIn the test grammar, I treat Sahaptin as a VSO lan-guage, and the enclitic as a suffix on verbs.
This3The construction of such systems is well-understood(Beesley and Karttunen, 2003), as is the method for hooking upsuch a system to the LKB.means that the sentences recognized and generatedby the grammar are in a legal word order?VSO sen-tences with the verb followed by the second-positionenclitic are grammatical in Sahaptin?but there areother legal word orders that the test grammar will notaccept.
The analysis of the enclitic is therefore lim-ited by the current capabilities of the customizationsystem?s word order library; however, if that libraryis enhanced in the future to support second-positionclitics, the analysis presented below should transferstraightforwardly.3.2 NumberI analyze Sahaptin as having three values of number:singular (sg), dual (du), and plural (pl).
All threevalues are distinguished on pronouns, as shown inTable 3; however, agreement with enclitics and ver-bal prefixes only shows a singular/plural distinction(with dual pronouns agreeing with the plural mor-pheme).
It will be necessary in several places for thegrammar to refer to a non-singular category cover-ing du and pl.
The questionnaire allows the explicitdescription of such a category; however, it also al-lows the user to select multiple values for a feature,and from those values infers the existence of cate-gories like non-singular.
I have made use of the lat-ter mechanism in this grammar.Table 3 shows the Sahaptin pronoun forms thatdistinguish singular, dual, and plural; in the ques-tionnaire, therefore, I specified a number value oneach.
So-called plural agreement morphemes, on theother hand, do not distinguish between the dual andplural so are simply specified as covering both val-ues.3.3 PersonSahaptin distinguishes three values of person: first,second, and third.
The enclitics (but, interestingly,not the pronouns) further distinguish a first personinclusive and first person exclusive.
I filled out theperson section of the questionnaire with answers re-flecting the presence of an inclusive/exclusive dis-tinction.3.4 CaseAs described above, Sahaptin has a nominative casethat marks intransitive and transitive subjects and anobjective case that marks transitive objects.
This257Singular Dual PluralSubject Object Subject Object Subject Object1 ?n in?y napiin?
napiinaman?y n?ma naaman?y2 ?m iman?y imiin?
imiinaman?y im?y imaaman?y3 p(?n paan?y piin?
piinaman?y pm?y paaman?y3 obv erg piin?3 inv erg pn?
(mTable 3: Umatilla Sahaptin Pronouns (Rigsby and Rude, 1996, 682?683)is the common nominative-accusative pattern, so inthe case section of the questionnaire I describe it assuch.
Note that I do not analyze the inverse ergativeand obviative ergative as case; see ?3.6 for details.3.5 Direct-InverseI analyze Sahaptin as a direct-inverse language?that is, a language whose argument marking is sen-sitive to a grammatical scale?though one that lacksclear direct or inverse forms of the verb, with the ex-ception of the p?- prefix.
The scale I propose forSahaptin is:(2) 1P > 2P > 3P topic > 3P non-topicThe customization system interprets this scale,creating a series of rules that constrain the value ofa feature DIRECTION on verbs.
This feature takesthe values direct and inverse and can be used to con-strain the form either of verbs themselves or of theirarguments.3.6 Other FeaturesI use two additional features in my analysis of Sa-haptin: a semantic TOPICALITY feature and a syn-tactic PROXIMITY feature, both on nominals.Marking of Sahaptin transitive clauses distin-guishes between topical and non-topical third personarguments.
There is no overt marking of topicalityon nominals, but clausal marking is conditioned onpragmatic distinctions that influence the felicity ofthe sentence in different discourse contexts.
In orderto systematically test this aspect of Sahaptin gram-mar in terms of string grammaticality, I introducedan artificial mark on topical noun phrases, the suffix-TOP.
This suffix constrains the value of the TOPI-CALITY feature on nominal indices.I use the syntactic PROXIMITY feature to modelthe ?inverse ergative?
and ?obviative ergative?
formsof nominals.
In Sahaptin transitive clauses, the in-verse ergative occurs precisely when the subject isthird person singular and the clause is inverse (thatis, the object is higher on the scale).
The obviativeergative occurs in exactly one case: when the sub-ject is third person singular and the object is a top-ical third person singular.
These ?ergative?
formsfunction very much like the so-called proximate andobviative forms in Algonquian languages.
However,in contrast to those languages, I analyze Sahaptin ashaving three values of the PROXIMITY feature ratherthan two: proximate, corresponding to the inverseergative -n?
(m, which promotes the marked nominalup the scale; obviative, corresponding to the obvia-tive ergative -in, which demotes the marked nomi-nal down the scale; and neutral, the unmarked form,which does not affect the nominal?s position on thescale.43.7 LexiconHaving defined the necessary features and values,we can now describe the lexicon of the Sahaptingrammar, which includes lexical types and inflec-tional morphemes.
In the questionnaire, inflectionalmorphology is described as a series of slots, each at-taching to one or more lexical types or other slots,and each containing one or more morphemes, eachof which in turn specifies features.
In order to pre-vent spurious ambiguity, the features on each set ofmorphemes are specified in such a way that no mor-pheme overlaps another, but also so that no legalcombination of features goes unexpressed.The simplest grammars are those that do not re-sort to homophony?that is, they do not have mul-tiple lexical items or morphemes with the same4Note that, for consistency with R&R?s description, Inonetheless continue to refer to the marked forms as the ?in-verse ergative?
and ?obviative ergative?.258spelling but different semantics or features.
It is of-ten possible to avoid homophony by adding com-plexity to feature hierarchies, but overly complexhierarchies can be as difficult to manage as exten-sive homophony.
In the Sahaptin grammar, I haveattempted to strike a balance between homophonyand hierarchy complexity.
For example, to make thegrammar easier for users to understand, I segregatedverbal prefixes and enclitics each into two classes:those attaching to intransitive stems and those at-taching to transitive stems.
This produced two ho-mophonous variants of the prefixes i- and pa-, and ofthe enclitics =na?, =na, =nata?, =nam, and =pam.Furthermore, the distributions of two transitive pre-fixes (p?- and the null variant) and of three transi-tive enclitics (=nam, =pam, and =mata?)
were eas-ier to model using homophonous variants.
Finally,the third person singular obviative pronoun and thethird person dual subject pronoun are both piin?
(asshown in Table 3) and it seemed simplest to repre-sent these using two separate lexical entries.
Thegrammar, then, contains 22 lexical items, of whichonly two are homophonous, and 24 non-null inflec-tional morphemes representing 12 distinctly spelledprefixes and enclitics.A full description of the morphosyntactic detailsof the Sahaptin test grammar would be too long forthis paper; instead, I will provide a summary.5 Thelexicon of the test grammar contains six inflectionalslots: a slot for the topic morpheme described abovethat attaches to nominals; a slot for verbal prefixesthat attach to intransitive verbs; a slot for verbal pre-fixes that attach to transitive verbs; a slot for encl-itics that attach to intransitive verbs; a slot for en-clitics that attach to transitive verbs; and a slot thatcontains no overt morphemes, but is used to producelexical rules that constrain the appearance of topic,proximate, and obviative on a verb?s nominal argu-ments.
Each of these slots contains morphemes, onwhich are specified values for one or more features.To give an idea of what this looks like, Table 4 shows5The full details of the Sahaptin grammar can be foundin my dissertation (Drellishak, 2009).
How the ques-tionnaire can be filled out to model Sahaptin can beseen by visiting the customization system web site atdepts.washington.edu/uwcl/matrix/sfddiss/and clicking the Umatilla Sahaptin link at the bottom of themain page, which fills out the questionnaire automatically.the features that are defined for the most complex ofthese slots, the one that contains transitive prefixes.4 Testing the Sahaptin GrammarIn order to test the correctness of the Sahaptin gram-mar, it was necessary to create a suite of test sen-tences, some grammatical and some not, that probeits expected lexical and grammatical coverage.
Istarted with the sentence patterns in R&R?s Tables7 and 8 (Rigsby and Rude, 1996, 676); from each, Icreated a sentence with the appropriate prefix, verb,enclitic, subject, and object.
In every case wherea plural argument was called for, I actually cre-ated two sentences, one with a dual argument?andin cases with two plural arguments, I created four:du/du, du/pl, pl/du, and pl/pl.All these sentences were expected to be gram-matical based on the descriptions in R&R.
To gen-erate ungrammatical sentences, I initially permutedthe grammatical sentences in the following ways:1.
For each grammatical sentence with a prefix, Icreated an ungrammatical variant with the pre-fix missing.2.
For each grammatical sentence with an enclitic,I created an ungrammatical variant with the en-clitic missing.3.
For each grammatical sentence, I created vari-ants that contained every incorrect prefix andvariants that contained every incorrect enclitic.After duplicates were removed, this produced alist of 89 grammatical and 220 ungrammatical sen-tences, for a total of 309.The permutation of the grammatical sentences asdescribed above was sufficient to test the phenom-ena of interest for intransitive sentences, producingungrammatical sentences consisting of correctly-formed words in the correct basic word order butwith an ungrammatical agreement pattern, and thispermutation was a small enough job to perform byhand.
For transitive sentences, though, there is amuch larger space of sentences with the right wordorder but wrong agreement, so in order to test thegrammar thoroughly, I decided to supplement theungrammatical sentences I created by hand by writ-ing a small program to generate every sentence con-taining the verb q?
?nun ?see?
that followed the pattern:259Transitive Subject Subject Object Objectprefix PERNUM TOPICALITY PERNUM TOPICALITYi- 3sg non-topicpa- 3du, 3pl non-topic?- 1st, 2nd 3rdp?- 2sg 1sgp?- 3sg non-topic 3sg topicpat?- 3du, 3pl non-topic 3sg topic?
1st 2nd?
2du, 2pl 1st?
2sg 1du, 1plTable 4: Morphemes appearing in the transitive prefix slot(3) prefix-q?
?nun=enclitic subject objectThe possible fillers for each position in (3) areshown in Table 5:prefix i-, pa-, ?-, p?-, pat?-, and ?enclitic =na?, =na, =nata?, =nam, =pam,=ma?, =mata?, and ?subject subject forms in Table 3object object forms in Table 3Table 5: Fillers for positions in (3)As mentioned above, the lexicon of the Sahaptingrammar, and consequently the test sentences, usesthe various forms of the personal pronoun to rep-resent the possible person, number, case, and prox-imity values of subject and object noun phrases.
Inaddition to plain case-marked pronouns, the subjectand object positions may also contain third personpronouns marked as the topic with -TOP.Generating every sentence that followed the pat-tern in (3) produced 6048 sentences, but some ad-ditional filtering was required.
First, since it ap-pears that topic marking is only relevant when dis-ambiguating third person arguments, I removed allsentences where the -TOP suffix appeared with afirst or second person pronoun.
Second, 192 of thepermutations of (3) are actually duplicates of theungrammatical transitive test sentences created byhand above, so I removed those as well.
After fil-tering, a total of 5856 programmatically-generatedsentences remained.
Added to the aforementioned309 examples, this made 6165 unique test sentences.After using the customization system to generatea grammar of Sahaptin, I used that grammar to at-tempt to parse every test sentence.
All 89 sentencescorresponding to R&R?s grammatical transitive andintransitive patterns parsed and were assigned ex-actly one analysis.6 Among the ungrammatical sen-tences, 5848 out of 5856 failed to parse, as expected.To my surprise, however, eight of the sentences didparse.
These sentences were:(4) a.
i-q?
?nun p?
(n-TOP piinaman?y3SG-see 3SG.NOM-TOP 3DU.OBJ?He saw them (DU).?b.
i-q?
?nun p(?n-TOP paaman?y3SG-see 3SG.NOM-TOP 3PL.OBJ?He saw them.?c.
pa-q?
?nun piin?
paan?y3NONSG-see 3DU.NOM 3SG.OBJ?They (DU) saw him.?d.
pa-q?
?nun pm?y paan?y3NONSG-see 3PL.NOM 3SG.OBJ?They saw him.?e.
pa-q?
?nun piin?-TOP piinaman?y3NONSG-see 3DU.NOM-TOP 3DU.OBJ?They (DU) saw them (DU).?f.
pa-q?
?nun piin?-TOP paaman?y3NONSG-see 3DU.NOM-TOP 3PL.OBJ?They (DU) saw them.?g.
pa-q?
?nun pm?y-TOP piinaman?y3NONSG-see 3PL.NOM-TOP 3DU.OBJ?They saw them (DU).?h.
pa-q?
?nun pm?y-TOP paaman?y3NONSG-see 3PL-TOP.NOM 3PL.OBJ?They saw them.
?6Multiple analyses would not necessarily have beenwrong?some sentences in some languages are structurallyambiguous?but the grammatical Sahaptin sentences in the testsuite are marked explicitly enough for agreement that none wasambiguous.260Notice that the eight sentences fall into three pat-terns.
The first two sentences have a third person sin-gular topical subject and a third person non-singularnon-topical object, the next two have a third personnon-singular non-topical subject and a third personsingular non-topical object, and the last four have athird person non-singular topical subject and a thirdperson non-topical object.
These are precisely thepatterns that are absent from R&R?s Table 8; corre-sponding sentences were therefore not included inthe list of 89 grammatical sentences.
In develop-ing the Sahaptin grammar, I had, without consider-ing these eight patterns, defined the prefixes in sucha way that the grammar expected i- to appear in thefirst two sentences and pa- in the last six.In order to determine whether this analysis wascorrect, Sharon Hargus presented the Yakima Sahap-tin equivalents of the sentences in (4) by telephoneto Virginia Beavert, a native speaker of that dialect,who accepted all eight of them with the readingsshown in (4).
Note that, in order for these sentencesto be acceptable, they had to be cast in the past tense,a feature not modeled in my Sahaptin grammar frag-ment.
Note also that Dr. Beavert considered sen-tence (4c) somewhat less acceptable, saying that itis ?
[a] little awkward, but has meaning.
?The Sahaptin grammar, then, which was createdusing the customization system and based on its sup-port for case, direct-inverse languages, and agree-ment, correctly analysed all 6165 of the test sen-tences, including eight that fell outside of the pat-terns described in the linguistic literature.5 Summary and DiscussionBased on these results, I conclude that even Sahap-tin, a language with extremely complex argumentmarking morphology, can be modeled using the cus-tomization system.
Note that the system was not de-signed with the facts of Sahaptin in mind, and withtwo exceptions, the system did not need to be modi-fied to enable it to handle Sahaptin.One of the exceptions was trivial: formerly, gram-mars produced by the system treated ?=?
as punctua-tion, stripping it out and breaking words containingit.
The other exception concerns an unusual agree-ment pattern I first encountered in Sahaptin: mor-phemes that agree, not with the subject or the objectof a verb, but with the nominal argument that is morehighly ranked on the direct-inverse scale.
Support-ing this agreement pattern proved worthwhile later,when it was used again in a test grammar for PlainsCree [crk] (Algonquian), another direct-inverse lan-guage.
Although this latter change was a substan-tive one that allows grammars to be described morecompactly, it did not increase the descriptive powerof the system?languages showing that pattern ofagreement could still be modeled using duplicated,homophonous morphemes.
Such an enhancement tothe system is an example of the feedback loop be-tween grammar engineering and customization sys-tem development, where new languages with newphenomena (or new variations of old phenomena)inform the design and, in some cases, the descrip-tive power of the system.After constructing the Sahaptin grammar and testsuite described here, it was natural to include it intwo places in the customization system.
First, itis now one of the regression tests that is regularlyrun to ensure that future enhancement of the systemdoes not break earlier features.
Second, Sahaptinhas been added to the list of sample grammars ac-cessible from the main page of the questionnaire?by clicking on links in this list, users can see detailedexamples of how the questionnaire can be filled outto model a target language.The Sahaptin grammar, developed using the cus-tomization system, has proved itself useful?notonly to the Grammar Matrix project, where it in-spired the addition of support for scale-sensitiveagreement and serves as a regression test of the cor-rect functioning of the system, but also to the fieldof linguistics.
By analyzing Sahaptin in the precisedetail required by the customization system, I foundunnoticed gaps in linguistic descriptions of the lan-guage, and in collaboration with linguists studyingthe language was able to help resolve those gaps.AcknowledgmentsMy thanks go to Emily Bender and the Matrix team,Sharon Hargus, and Virginia Beavert.
This workwas supported by a gift to the Turing Center fromthe Utilika Foundation, by the Max Planck Institutefor Evolutionary Anthropology, and by the NationalScience Foundation under Grant No.
0644097.261References[Beesley and Karttunen2003] Kenneth R. Beesley andLauri Karttunen.
2003.
Finite State Morphology.CSLI, Stanford.
[Bender et al2002] Emily M. Bender, Dan Flickinger,and Stephan Oepen.
2002.
The grammar matrix.
InProceedings of COLING 2002 Workshop on GrammarEngineering and Evaluation, Taipei, Taiwan.
[Blake2001] Barry J. Blake.
2001.
Case, Second Edition.Cambridge University Press, Cambridge.
[Copestake et al2005] Ann Copestake, Dan Flickinger,Carl Pollard, and Ivan A.
Sag.
2005.
Minimal re-cursion semantics: An introduction.
Research on Lan-guage & Computation, 3(2?3):281?332.
[Copestake2002] Ann Copestake.
2002.
ImplementingTyped Feature Structure Grammars.
CSLI, Stanford.
[Drellishak2009] Scott Drellishak.
2009.
Widespread,but Not Universal: Improving the Typological Cover-age of the Grammar Matrix.
Ph.D. thesis, Universityof Washington.
[Krieger and Sch?fer1994] Hans-Ulrich Krieger and Ul-rich Sch?fer.
1994.
Tdl ?
a type description languagefor constraint-based grammars.
In Proceedings of the15th International Conference on Computational Lin-guistics, pages 893?899, Kyoto, Japan.
[Oepen2001] Stephan Oepen.
2001.
[incr tsdb()] ?Competence and performance laboratory.
User man-ual.
Technical report, Saarbr?cken, Germany.
[Pollard and Sag1994] Carl Pollard and Ivan A. Sag.1994.
Head-Driven Phrase Structure Grammar.CSLI, Stanford.
[Rigsby and Rude1996] Bruce Rigsby and Noel Rude.1996.
Sketch of sahaptin, a sahaptian language.In Ives Goddard, editor, Languages, pages 666?92.Smithsonian Institution, Washington DC.262
