Proceedings of the NAACL HLT 2010: Demonstration Session, pages 17?20,Los Angeles, California, June 2010. c?2010 Association for Computational LinguisticsKSC-PaL: A Peer Learning Agent that Encourages Students to take theInitiative?Cynthia KerseyLewis UniversityRomeoville, IL 60446 USAkerseycy@lewisu.eduBarbara Di EugenioUniversity of Illinois at ChicagoChicago, IL 60607 USAbdieugen@cs.uic.eduPamela Jordan and Sandra KatzUniversity of PittsburghPittsburgh, PA 15260 USApjordan+@pitt.edukatz+@pitt.eduAbstractWe present an innovative application of dia-logue processing concepts to educational tech-nology.
In a previous corpus analysis of peerlearning dialogues, we found that initiativeand initiative shifts are indicative of learning,and of learning-conducive episodes.
We haveincorporated this finding in KSC-PaL, a peerlearning agent.
KSC-PaL promotes learningby encouraging shifts in task initiative.1 IntroductionCollaborative learning has been shown to be an ef-fective mode of learning for potentially all partic-ipants (Brown and Palincsar, 1989; Fisher, 1993;Tin, 2003).
While collaboration in dialogue has longbeen researched in computational linguistics (Chu-Carroll and Carberry, 1998; Constantino-Gonza?lezand Suthers, 2000; Jordan and Di Eugenio, 1997;Soller, 2004), the study of peer learning from a com-putational perspective is still in the early stages.Previous research has suggested several mecha-nisms that explain why peer learning is effective.Among them are: self-directed explaining (Chi etal., 1994), other-directed explaining (Ploetzner etal., 1999; Roscoe and Chi, 2007) and KnowledgeCo-construction ?
KCC for short (Hausmann et al,2004).
KCC episodes are defined as portions of thedialogue in which students are jointly constructinga shared meaning of a concept required for problemsolving.
This last mechanism is the most interestingfrom a peer learning perspective because it is a truly?This work is funded by NSF grants 0536968 and 0536959.collaborative construct and also because it is consis-tent with the widely accepted constructivist view oflearning.In our previous work (Kersey et al, 2009) we de-rived a model of peer interactions that operational-izes KCC via the notion of initiative shifts in dia-logue.
This model was based on an extensive corpusanalysis in which we found a strong relationship be-tween initiative shifts and KCC episodes.
A paired t-test showed that there were significantly more initia-tive shifts in the annotated KCC episodes comparedwith the rest of the dialogue ( t(57) = 3.32, p =0.0016).
The moderate effect difference betweenthe two groups (effect size = 0.49 ) shows that thereis a meaningful increase in the number of initia-tive shifts in KCC episodes compared with problemsolving activity outside of the KCC episodes.
Addi-tionally, we found moderate correlations of learningwith both KCC (R2 = 0.14, p = 0.02) and withinitiative shifts (R2 = 0.20, p = 0.00).We have incorporated this model in an innovativepeer learning agent, KSC-PaL, that is designed tocollaborate with a student to solve problems in thedomain of computer science data structures.2 KSC-PaLKSC-PaL, has at its core the TuTalk System (Jordanet al, 2007), a dialogue management system thatsupports natural language dialogue in educationalapplications.
In developing KSC-PaL we extendedTuTalk in three ways.The first extension is a user interface (see Fig-ure 1) which manages communication betweenTuTalk and the student.
Students interact with KSC-17Figure 1: The KSC-PaL interfacePaL using natural language and graphical actions.The student input is processed by the interface andits related modules into an appropriate format andpassed to TuTalk.
Since TuTalk?s interpretationmodule is not able to appropriately handle all stu-dent utterances, a human interpreter assists in thisprocess.
The interpreter receives a student utterancealong with a list of possible matching concepts fromTuTalk (see Figure 4).
The interpreter then selectsthe most likely matching concepts from TuTalk thusassisting in natural language interpretation.
If thestudent utterance doesn?t match any of these con-cepts, a second list of concepts, containing studentinitiative utterances, are presented to the interpreter.If none of these match then all known concepts arepresented to the interpreter for matching.
Note thatthe interpreter has a limited, predetermined set ofchoices, corresponding to the concepts that TuTalkis aware of.
In this way, his/her intervention is cir-cumscribed.The second addition is the incorporation of a stu-dent model that allows the KSC-PaL to track thecurrent state of problem solving and the student?sknowledge in order to guide its behavior.
TuTalk?sstudent model was replaced with one that incorpo-rates problem solution graphs (Conati et al, 2002).Solution graphs are Bayesian networks where eachnode represents either an action required to solve theproblem or a concept required as part of problemsolving.
A user?s utterances and actions are thenmatched to these nodes.
This provides KSC-PaLwith information related to the student?s knowledgeof problem solving concepts as well as the currenttopic under discussion.Thirdly, a planning module was added to TuTalkto make decisions on implementation of problemsolving goals and responses to student initiative inorder to manage shifts in initiative.
The planningmodule includes an initiative tracker that codes turnswith with either student initiative or agent initiativeusing one classifier for natural language utterancesand a separate classifier for drawing and coding ac-tions.
Once a turn is classified, it is determinedwhether a shift in initiative has occurred by compar-18ing the current classification with the classificationof the previous turn.
An average level of initiativeshifts is then computed by dividing the number ofinitiative shifts by the total number of turns.
Basedon the initiative level, KSC-PaL encourages initia-tive shifts by using prompts, hedging, requestingfeedback from the student and encouraging studentcriticism by intentionally making errors in problemsolving.Our evaluation of KSC-PaL (Kersey et al, June2010) found that students learned using the agentand that KSC-PaL was was successful in encourag-ing shifts in initiative.3 Demonstration OutlineWe will demonstrate a problem solving episode withKSC-PaL where a user will interact with the agent asa student.
Specifically we will show how KSC-PaLattempts to manage the level of initiative and howKSC-PaL reacts to student initiative.1.
Amy: hi there, are you readyto start?2.
Mary: sure3.
Amy: where to begin?4.
Mary: i don?t know5.
Amy: maybe we should draw this6.
Amy: do you want to draw it?7.
Mary: ok8.
Amy: so, line 1 ...9.
Mary: how?s that?10.
Amy: hmmm11.
Amy: line 2: first.next=second.next(Mary diagrams the code segment)12.
Mary: there i finished it13.
Amy: looks good14.
Amy: i think we?re done drawing15.
Mary: yes16.
Amy: basically, it switches thefirst and second elements17.
Mary: right18.
Amy: ill write the explanation19.
Mary: okFigure 2: Problem Solving ExampleFigure 2 shows an excerpt from a typical prob-lem solving session.
Amy, the agent, attempts tomaintain a balanced level of initiative either by en-couraging the student (Mary) to take initiative, or bytaking initiative.
In lines 10 and 11, the agent uses aprompt followed by repetition of the problem solv-ing goal to encourage the student to retain the initia-tive.
However, in line 16 the agent takes initiative byproposing a solution to the problem.KSC-PaL is also able to manage the situationwhere the student takes initiative in the dialogue inan unanticipated manner, as shown in Figure 3.
Inline 3, Mary asks a question that is not expectedat this point in the problem solving process and theagent responds appropriately in line 4.
KSC-PaL isable to respond to a set of student initiations derivedfrom corpus data, such as the one in this excerpt.Additionally, the agent responds in a generic man-ner to other unanticipated initiations and directs thestudent back to problem solving.1.
Mary: let?s look at the code2.
Amy: so, i think first andsecond both equal bat3.
Mary: is second a reference ora node?4.
Amy: second is a referenceFigure 3: Student Initiative ExampleReferencesA.
L. Brown and A. S. Palincsar, 1989.
Guided, cooper-ative learning and individual knowledge acquisition,pages 307?226.
Lawrence Erlbaum Associates, Hills-dale, NJ.M.T.H.
Chi, N. De Leeuw, M.H.
Chiu, and C. LaVancher.1994.
Eliciting self-explanations improves under-standing.
Cognitive Science, 18(3):439?477.Jennifer Chu-Carroll and Sandra Carberry.
1998.
Col-laborative response generation in planning dialogues.Computational Linguistics, 24(3):355?400.Cristina Conati, Abigail Gertner, and Kurt VanLehn.2002.
Using Bayesian networks to manage uncer-tainty in student modeling.
User Modeling and User-Adapted Interaction, 12(4):371?417.Mar?
?a de los Angeles Constantino-Gonza?lez andDaniel D. Suthers.
2000.
A coached collaborativelearning environment for entity-relationship modeling.Intelligent Tutoring Systems, pages 324?333.19Figure 4: The interface for the human interpreterE.
Fisher.
1993.
Distinctive features of pupil-pupil class-room talk and their relationship to learning: How dis-cursive exploration might be encouraged.
Languageand Education, 7:239?257.Robert G.M.
Hausmann, Michelene T.H.
Chi, and Mar-guerite Roy.
2004.
Learning from collaborative prob-lem solving: An analysis of three hypothesized mech-anisms.
In K.D Forbus, D. Gentner, and T. Regier, edi-tors, 26th Annual Conference of the Cognitive ScienceSociety, pages 547?552, Mahwah, NJ.Pamela W. Jordan and Barbara Di Eugenio.
1997.
Con-trol and initiative in collaborative problem solving di-alogues.
In Working Notes of the AAAI Spring Sympo-sium on Computational Models for Mixed Initiative,pages 81?84, Menlo Park, CA.Pamela W Jordan, Brian Hall, Michael A. Ringenberg,Yui Cue, and Carolyn Penstein Rose?.
2007.
Tools forauthoring a dialogue agent that participates in learningstudies.
In Artificial Intelligence in Education, AIED2007, pages 43?50.Cynthia Kersey, Barbara Di Eugenio, Pamela Jordan, andSandra Katz.
2009.
KSC-PaL: a peer learning agentthat encourages students to take the initiative.
In Pro-ceedings of the Fourth Workshop on Innovative Use ofNLP for Building Educational Applications, pages 55?63.
Association for Computational Linguistics.Cynthia Kersey, Barbara Di Eugenio, Pamela Jordan, andSandra Katz.
June 2010.
KSC-PaL: A peer learningagent.
In ITS 2010, The 10th International Conferenceon Intelligent Tutoring Systems, Pittsburgh, PA.R.
Ploetzner, P. Dillenbourg, M. Preier, and D. Traum.1999.
Learning by explaining to oneself and to others.Collaborative learning: Cognitive and computationalapproaches, pages 103?121.Rod D. Roscoe and Michelene T. H. Chi.
2007.Understanding tutor learning: Knowledge-buildingand knowledge-telling in peer tutors?
explanationsand questions.
Review of Educational Research,77(4):534?574.Amy Soller.
2004.
Computational modeling and analysisof knowledge sharing in collaborative distance learn-ing.
User Modeling and User-Adapted Interaction,Volume 14(4):351?381, January.Tan Bee Tin.
2003.
Does talking with peers help learn-ing?
the role of expertise and talk in convergent groupdiscussion tasks.
Journal of English for AcademicPurposes, 2(1):53?66.20
