Proceedings of the NAACL HLT 2010: Tutorial Abstracts, pages 19?20,Los Angeles, California, June 2010. c?2010 Association for Computational LinguisticsComputational psycholinguisticsRoger Levy, Klinton Bicknell, and Nathaniel SmithUniversity of California, San Diego1.
Brief DescriptionOver the last two decades, computational linguistics has been revolutionized as a resultof three closely related developments, two empirical and one theoretical: increases incomputing power, the new availability of large linguistic datasets, and a paradigm shifttoward the view that language processing by computers is best approached through thetools of statistical inference.
During roughly the same time frame, there have beensimilar theoretical developments in cognitive psychology towards a view of majoraspects of human cognition as instances of rational statistical inference.
Developmentsin these two fields have set the stage for renewed interest in computational approachesto human language processing.
In this tutorial, we briefly survey some of the keytheoretical issues at the forefront of this interdisciplinary field today, and show howmodeling techniques from NLP are being employed, extended, and coupled withexperimental techniques from psycholinguistics to further our understanding of real-timehuman language use.2.
Tutorial structure1.
Introduction & summary of current state of key areas in psycholinguistics(a) Key empirical findings involving ambiguity resolution, prediction, integration ofdiverse information sources, and speaker choice in real-time language comprehen-sion and production (?10 minutes)(b) Framing of empirical findings and concomitant theoretical issues in terms thatcan be cleanly related to leading NLP models and algorithms (?10 minutes)2. Review of exact inference techniques for stochastic grammatical formalisms(a) Weighted finite-state automata and context-free grammars (?10 minutes)(b) Probabilistic Earley algorithm (?10 minutes)(c) Weighted intersection of FSA and CFG (?10 minutes)3.
Modeling key results in ambiguity resolution and expectation-based facilitation(a) Global disambiguation preferences (?5 minutes)(b) Measuring online processing difficulty: intro to self-paced reading (?5 minutes)(c) Expectation-based facilitation in unambiguous contexts (?5?10 minutes)4.
Coffee break195.
Online production: speaker choice(a) Zipf?s second law (frequency & word length) and information-theoretic interpre-tations (?10 minutes)(b) Phonetic duration & reduction effects in online word production (?5 minutes)(c) Morphological- and lexical-level reduction phenomena: modeling and empiricalinvestigation (?10 minutes)6.
Cognitive limitations and implications for modeling(a) Memory limitations & garden pathing: empirical results (?10 minutes)(b) Modeling approach I: incremental beam search & garden pathing (?5 minutes)(c) Modeling approach II: stochastic incremental search & ?digging-in?
effects (?10minutes)7.
Additional theoretical challenges(a) Bounds on rationality in real-time language use?
?Good-enough?
comprehensioneffects and ?local-coherence?
effects (?10 minutes)(b) Possible avenues of attack: more refined models introducing input uncertainty(?10 minutes)(c) More sophisticated experimental tools: eye-tracking (?5 minutes)(d) New experimental findings on input uncertainty, ?hallucinated?
garden paths (?5minutes)(e) Future directions (?5 minutes)8.
Summary and questions (?5?10 minutes)3.
InstructorRoger Levy, rlevy@ling.ucsd.eduMy research focuses on theoretical and applied questions in the processing of naturallanguage.
Inherently, linguistic communication involves the resolution of uncertaintyover a potentially unbounded set of possible signals and meanings.
How can a fixed setof knowledge and resources be deployed to manage this uncertainty?
To address thesequestions I use a combination of computational modelling and psycholinguisticexperimentation.
This work furthers our understanding of the cognitive underpinning oflanguage processing, and helps us design models and algorithms that will allowmachines to process human language.Klinton Bicknell and Nathaniel Smith are PhD students at the University of California,San Diego.20
