Human Language Technologies: The 2010 Annual Conference of the North American Chapter of the ACL, pages 1002?1010,Los Angeles, California, June 2010. c?2010 Association for Computational LinguisticsReformulating Discourse Connectives for Non-Expert ReadersAdvaith Siddharthan Napoleon KatsosDepartment of Computing Science Research Centre for English and Applied LinguisticsUniversity of Aberdeen University of Cambridgeadvaith@abdn.ac.uk nk248@cam.ac.ukAbstractIn this paper we report a behavioural ex-periment documenting that different lexico-syntactic formulations of the discourse rela-tion of causation are deemed more or less ac-ceptable by different categories of readers.
Wefurther report promising results for automati-cally selecting the formulation that is most ap-propriate for a given category of reader usingsupervised learning.
This investigation is em-bedded within a longer term research agendaaimed at summarising scientific writing for layreaders using appropriate paraphrasing.1 IntroductionThere are many reasons why a speaker/writer wouldwant to choose one formulation of a discourse rela-tion over another; for example, maintaining threadof discourse, avoiding shifts in focus and issues ofsalience and end weight.
There are also reasons touse different formulations for different audiences;for example, to account for differences in readingskills and domain knowledge.
In this paper, wepresent a psycholinguistic experiment designed to il-luminate the factors that determine the appropriate-ness of particular realisations of discourse relationsfor different audiences.
The second part of this pa-per focuses on training a natural language generationsystem to predict which realisation choices are morefelicitous than others for a given audience.
Our para-phrases include eight different constructions.
Con-sider 1a.?d.
below:(1) a. Tom ate because he was hungry.b.
Tom ate because of his hunger.c.
Tom?s hunger caused him to eat.d.
The cause of Tom?s eating was his hunger.These differ in terms of the lexico-syntactic prop-erties of the discourse marker (shown in bold font).Indeed the discourse markers here are conjunctions,prepositions, verbs and nouns.
As a consequencethe propositional content is expressed either as aclause or a noun phrase (?he was hungry?
vs ?hishunger?, etc.).
Additionally, the order of presenta-tion of propositional content can be varied to givefour more lexico-syntactic paraphrases:(1) e. Because Tom was hungry, he ate.f.
Because of his hunger, Tom ate.g.
Tom?s eating was caused by his hunger.h.
Tom?s hunger was the cause of his eating.It is clear that some formulations of this propo-sitional content are more felicitous than others; forexample, 1a.
seems preferable to 1d., but for adifferent propositional content, other formulationsmight be more felicitous (for instance, example 4,section 3.1, where the passive seems in fact prefer-able).
While discourse level choices based on infor-mation ordering play a role in choosing a formula-tion, it is of particular interest to us that some de-contextualised information orderings within a sen-tence are deemed unacceptable.
Any summarisationtask that considers discourse coherence should notintroduce sentence-level unacceptability.We now summarise our main research questions:1.
Are some formulations of a discourse relation morefelicitous than others, given the same propositionalcontent?2.
Does the reader?s level of domain expertise affecttheir preferred formulation?3.
What linguistic features determine which formula-tions are acceptable?4.
How well can a natural language generator betrained to predict the most appropriate formulationfor a given category of reader?In this paper, we focus on causal relations becausethese are pervasive in science writing and are inte-gral to how humans conceptualise the world.
The8 formulations selected are 2 information orderings1002of 4 different syntactic constructs; thus we explore afairly broad range of constructions.With regard to genre, we have a particular in-terest in scientific writing, specifically biomedicaltexts.
Reformulating such texts for lay audiences isa highly relevant task today and many news agen-cies perform this service; e.g., Reuters Health sum-marises medical literature for lay audiences andBBC online has a Science/Nature section that re-ports on science.
These services rely either on pressreleases by scientists and universities or on special-ist scientific reporters, thus limiting coverage of agrowing volume of scientific literature in a digitaleconomy.
Thus, reformulating technical writing forlay audiences is a research area of direct relevance toinformation retrieval, information access and sum-marisation systems.At the same time, while there are numerous stud-ies about the effect of text reformulation on peoplewith different literacy levels or language deficits (seesection 2), the issue of expert vs lay audiences hasreceived less attention.
Further, most studies focuson narrative texts such as news or history.
However,as Linderholm et al (2000) note, results from studiesof causality in narrative texts might not carry over toscientific writing, because inferences are made morespontaneously during the reading of narrative thanexpository texts.
Thus comparing expert vs lay read-ers on the comprehension of causal relations in sci-entific writing is a most timely investigation.In section 2, we relate our research to the exist-ing linguistic, psycholinguistic and computationalliterature.
Then in section 3, we describe our psy-cholinguistic experiment that addresses our first tworesearch questions and in section 4 we present acomputational approach to learning felicitous para-phrases that addresses the final two questions.2 Background and related work2.1 Expressing causationLinguists generally consider five different compo-nents of meaning (Wolff et al, 2005) in causal ex-pressions: (a) occurrence of change in patient, (b)specification of endstate, (c) tendency and concor-dance, (d) directness and (e) mechanism.
The ex-pressions we consider in this paper, ?because?
(con-junction), ?because of?
(preposition) and ?cause?as noun or verb (periphrastic causatives) express(a), (b) and in some instances, (c).
This is in contrastto affect verbs that only express (a), link verbs thatexpress (a?b), lexical causatives that express (a?d)and resultatives that express (a?e).
These distinc-tions are illustrated by the sentences in example 2:(2) a. Sara kicked the door.
(affect verb ?
endstate not specified)b.
The door?s breaking was linked to Sara.
(link verb ?
end state specified, but un-clear that door has a tendency to break)c. Sara caused the door to break.
/ Thedoor broke because of Sara.
(periphrastic/ preposition ?
indirect; the door mighthave a tendency to break)d. Sara broke the door.
(lexical causative ?directness of action is specified)e. Sara broke the door open.
(resultative ?end state is ?open?
)There is much literature on how people preferone type of causative over the other based on thesefive components of meaning (e.g.
see Wolff et al(2005)).
What is less understood is how one selectsbetween various expressions that carry similar se-mantic content.
In this paper we consider four con-structs ?because of?, ?because?, and ?cause?
as averb and a noun.
These express the components ofmeaning (a?c) using different syntactic structures.By considering only these four lexically similar con-structs, we can focus on the role of the lexis and ofsyntax in determining the most felicitous expressionof causation for a given propositional content.2.2 Discourse connectives and comprehensionPrevious work has shown that when texts have beenmanually rewritten to make discourse relations suchas causation explicit, reading comprehension is sig-nificantly improved in middle/high school students(Beck et al, 1991).
Further, connectives that permitpre-posed adverbial clauses have been found to bedifficult for third to fifth grade readers, even whenthe order of mention coincides with the causal (andtemporal) order; for instance, 3b.
is more accessiblethan 3a.
(e.g.
from Anderson and Davison (1988)).
(3) a.
Because Mexico allowed slavery, manyAmericans and their slaves moved toMexico during that time.b.
Many Americans and their slaves movedto Mexico during that time, becauseMexico allowed slavery.1003Such studies show that comprehension can be im-proved by reformulating text; e.g., making causalrelations explicit had a facilitatory effect for read-ers with low reading skills (Linderholm et al, 2000;Beck et al, 1991) and for readers with low levels ofdomain expertise (Noordman and Vonk, 1992).
Fur-ther, specific information orderings were found to befacilitatory by Anderson and Davison (1988).However, it has not been investigated whetherreaders with different levels of domain expertise arefacilitated by any specific lexico-syntactic formula-tion among the many possible explicit realisations ofa relation.
This is a novel question in the linguisticsliterature, and we address it in section 3.2.3 Connectives and automatic (re)generationMuch of the work regarding (re)generation of textbased on discourse connectives aims to simplifytext in certain ways, to make it more accessibleto particular classes of readers.
The PSET project(Carroll et al, 1998) considered simplifying newsreports for aphasics.
The PSET project focusedmainly on lexical simplification (replacing difficultwords with easier ones), but more recently, therehas been work on syntactic simplification and, inparticular, the way syntactic rewrites interact withdiscourse structure and text cohesion (Siddharthan,2006).
Elsewhere, there has been renewed interest inparaphrasing, including the replacement of words(especially verbs) with their dictionary definitions(Kaji et al, 2002) and the replacement of idiomaticor otherwise troublesome expressions with simplerones.
The current research emphasis is on auto-matically learning paraphrases from comparable oraligned corpora (Barzilay and Lee, 2003; Ibrahim etal., 2003).
The text simplification and paraphrasingliterature does not address paraphrasing that requiressyntactic alterations such as those in example 1 orthe question of appropriateness of different formula-tions of a discourse relation.Some natural language generation systems in-corporate results from psycholinguistic studies tomake principled choices between alternative formu-lations.
For example, SkillSum (Williams and Re-iter, 2008) and ICONOCLAST (Power et al, 2003)are two contemporary generation systems that allowfor specifying aspects of style such as choice of dis-course marker, clause order, repetition and sentenceand paragraph lengths in the form of constraints thatcan be optimised.
However, to date, these systemsdo not consider syntactic reformulations of the typewe are interested in.
Our research is directly rele-vant to such generation systems as it can help suchsystems make decisions in a principled manner.2.4 Corpus studies and treebankingThere are two major corpora that mark up discourserelations ?
the RST Discourse Treebank based onRhetorical Structure Theory (Mann and Thompson,1988), and the Penn Discourse Treebank (Webber etal., 2005).
Neither is suitable for studies on the fe-licity of specific formulations of a discourse relation.As part of this research, we have created a corpus of144 real text examples, reformulated in 8 ways, giv-ing 1152 sentences in total.There have been numerous corpus studies of dis-course connectives, such as studies on the discourse-role disambiguation of individual cue-phrases inspoken and written corpora (e.g., Hirschberg andLitman (1993)), the substitutability of discourseconnectives (e.g., Hutchinson (2005)), and indeedcorpus studies as a means of informing the choiceof discourse relations to consider in a theory (e.g.,Knott and Dale (1994); Knott (1996)).
A distin-guishing feature of our approach relative to previ-ous ones is an in-depth study of syntactic variations;in contrast, for example, Knott?s taxonomy of dis-course relations is based on the use of a substitutiontext that precludes variants of the same relation hav-ing different syntax.3 Linguistic acceptability study3.1 Dataset creationWe have constructed a dataset that can be used togain insights into differences between different real-isations of discourse relations.
In the following, wewill illustrate such rewriting situations using an ex-ample from a medical article.
As mentioned previ-ously, we are particularly interested in complex syn-tactic reformulations; in example 4 below, a. is fromthe original text and b.?h.
are reformulations.
Thereare two examples each of formulations using ?be-cause?, ?because of ?, the verb ?cause?
and the noun?cause?
with different ordering of propositional con-tent.
This provides us with 8 formulations per exam-ple sentence; for example:1004(4) a. Fructose-induced hypertension is causedby increased salt absorption by the intes-tine and kidney.
[cause p]b.
Increased salt absorption by the intestineand kidney causes fructose-induced hy-pertension.
[cause a]c. Fructose-induced hypertension occursbecause of increased salt absorption bythe intestine and kidney.
[a becof b]d. Because of increased salt absorption bythe intestine and kidney, fructose-inducedhypertension occurs.
[becof ba]e. Fructose-induced hypertension occursbecause there is increased salt absorptionby the intestine and kidney.
[a bec b]f. Because there is increased salt absorp-tion by the intestine and kidney, fructose-induced hypertension occurs.
[bec ba]g. Increased salt absorption by the intes-tine and kidney is the cause of fructose-induced hypertension.
[b causeof a]h. The cause of fructose-induced hyperten-sion is increased salt absorption by the in-testine and kidney.
[causeof ab]Our corpus contains 144 such examples from threegenres (see below), giving 1152 sentences in total.These 144 examples contain equal numbers of orig-inal sentences (18) of each of the 8 types.
The man-ual reformulation is formulaic, and it is part of ourbroader research effort to automate the process usingtransfer rules and a bi-directional grammar.
The ex-ample above is indicative of the process.
To make aclause out of a noun phrase (examples 4c.?f.
), we in-troduce either the copula or the verb ?occur?, basedon a subjective judgement of whether this is an eventor a continuous phenomenon.
Conversely, to createa noun phrase from a clause, we use a possessive anda gerund; for example (simplified for illustration):(5) a. Irwin had triumphed because he was sogood a man.b.
The cause of Irwin?s having triumphedwas his being so good a man.Clearly, there are many different possibilities forthis reformulation; for example:(5) b?.
The cause of Irwin?s triumph was his be-ing so good a man.b?.
The cause of Irwin?s triumph was his ex-ceptional goodness as a man.As part of our wider research agenda, we are ex-ploring automatic reformulation using transfer rulesand a bi-directional grammar.
In this context, givenour immediate interest is in the discourse markers,we restrict our reformulation method to only gener-ate sentences such as 5b.
This not only makes au-tomation easier, but also standardises data for ourexperiment by removing an aspect of subjectivityfrom the manual reformulation.We used equal numbers of sentences from threedifferent genres1:?
PubMed Abstracts: Technical writing from theBiomedical domain?
BNC World: Article from the British National Cor-pus tagged as World News?
BNC Natural Science: Article from the British Na-tional Corpus tagged as Natural Science.
This cov-ers popular science writing in the mainstream mediaThere were 48 example sentences chosen ran-domly from each genre, such that there were 6 ex-amples of each of the 8 types of formulation)3.2 Experimental setupHuman judgements for acceptability for each of the1152 sentences in our corpus were obtained usingthe WebExp package (Keller et al, 2008 to appear).2We investigated acceptability because it is a measurewhich reflects both ease of comprehension and sur-face well-formedness.The propositional content of 144 sentences waspresented in 8 formulations.
Eight participantgroups (A?H) consisting of 6 people each were pre-sented with exactly one of the eight formulationsof each of 144 different sentences, as per a Latinsquare design.
Thus, while each participant readan equal number of sentences in each formulationtype, they never read more than one formulation ofthe same propositional content.
Each group saw 18original and 126 reformulated sentences in total, 48from each genre.
This experimental design allowsall statistical comparisons between the eight typesof causal formulations to be within-participants.Acceptability judgements were elicited on thesentences without presenting the preceding context1PubMed URL: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/The British National Corpus, version 3 (BNC XML Edition).2007.
Distributed by Oxford University Computing Services onbehalf of the BNC Consortium.
http://www.natcorp.ox.ac.uk2Note that the reformulations are, strictly speaking, gram-matical according to the authors?
judgement.
We are testingviolations of acceptability, rather than grammaticality per se.1005from the original text.
The participants were Univer-sity of Cambridge students (all native English speak-ers with different academic backgrounds).
Post ex-perimentally we divided participants in two groupsbased on having a Science or a non-Science back-ground3.
Rather than giving participants a fixedscale (e.g.
1?7), we used the magnitude estimationparadigm, which is more suitable to capture robustor subtle differences between the relative strength ofacceptability or grammaticality violations (see Bardet al (1996); Cowart (1997); Keller (2000)).3.3 Magnitude estimationParticipants were asked to score how acceptable amodulus sentence was, using any positive number.They were then asked to score other sentences rel-ative to this modulus, using any positive number,even decimals, so that higher scores were assignedto more acceptable sentences.
The advantage ofMagnitude estimation is that the researcher doesnot make any assumptions about the number of lin-guistic distinctions allowed.
Each subject makes asmany distinctions as they feel comfortable.
Scoreswere normalised to allow comparison across partic-ipants, following standard practice in the literatureby using the z-score: For each participant, each sen-tence score was normalised so that the mean score is0 and the standard deviation is 1:zih =xih ?
?h?hwhere zih is participant h?s z-score for the sentencei when participant h gave a magnitude estimationscore of xih to that sentence.
?h is the mean and?h the standard deviation of the set of magnitudeestimation scores for user h.3.4 Results42 out of 48 participants (19 science students and23 non-science students) completed the experiment,giving us 3?6 ratings for each of the 1152 sentences.Figure 1 shows the average z-scores with standard3Participants provided subject of study prior to participa-tion in the experiment.
Our classification of Science con-sists of Life Sciences(Genetics/Biology/etc), Chemistry, Envi-ronmental Science, Engineering, Geology, Physics, Medicine,Pharmacology, Veterinary Science and Zoology.
Non-Scienceconsists of Archaeology, Business, Classics, Education, Liter-ature&Languages, International Relations, Linguistics, Maths,Music, Politics and Theology.-0.4-0.200.20.40.60.81Original Reformulated AllNon-S ScienceNon-S ScienceNon-S ScienceBNC-WorldBNC-NatSciPubmedFigure 1: Preferences by Field of Study ?
Science orNon-Science.error bars for Science and non-Science students foreach of the three genres.
The first six columnsshow the scores for only the 144 Original Sentences.Note that science students find PubMed sentencesmost acceptable (significantly more than BNC Nat-ural Science; t-test, p < .005), while among non-science students there is a numerical tendency to findthe world news sentences most acceptable.
Both cat-egories of participants disprefer sentences from thepopular science genre.
Columns 7?12 show the av-erage z-scores for the 1008 reformulated sentences.Let us note that these are significantly lower than forthe originals (t-test, p < .001).Some of these results are as expected.
With regardto genre preferences, scientists might find the styleof technical writing acceptable because of familiar-ity with that style of writing.
Second, with regardto the average score for original and reformulatedsentences, some reformulations just don?t work fora given propositional content.
This pulls the aver-age for reformulated sentences down.
However, onaverage 2 out of 7 reformulations score quite high.It is interesting that the popular science genre isleast preferred by both groups.
This suggests thatreformulating technical writing for lay readers is nota trivial endeavour, even for journalists.Now consider Figure 2, which shows the aver-age z-scores for only PubMed sentences for scienceand non-science students as a function of sentencetype.
For non-science students reading PubMed sen-tences, three formulations are strongly dispreferred?
?a is caused by b?, ?because b, a?
and ?b is the1006-0.200.20.40.60.811.2Science Not-Sciencea-bec-ba-becof-bb-causeof-acauseof-abbec-babecof-bacause-acause-pFigure 2: PubMed type preferencescause of a?.
The last two are significantly lower than?a because b?, ?a because of b?
and ?because of b, a?
(t-test, .005 < p < .01).
On the contrary, there areno strong preferences among the science studentsand all the error bars overlap.
Let us now look atsome specific differences between science and non-science students:1.
Science students prefer sentences in the passivevoice, while these are strongly dispreferred by non-science students.
While active voice is the canon-ical form in English, much of science is written inthe passive by convention.
This difference can thusbe explained by different levels of exposure.2.
Non-science students disprefer the use of ?cause?as a noun while science students don?t (columns 3?4 and 11?12).3.
Non-science students prefer ?because of b, a?
to?because b, a?
while science students show the op-posite preference.The lack of strongly dispreferred formulations inthe Science students is most likely due to two fac-tors: (a) the group?s familiarity with this genre and(b) their expert knowledge compensates for accept-ability even for relatively odd formulations.
In theabsence of exposure and background knowledge, thenon-Science students display clear preferences.4Note that these preferences are not surprising.The preference for canonical constructs such as ac-tive voice and conjunction in infix position are welldocumented.
Our claim however, is that blindly4While we only show the averages for all sentences, the dis-tributions for original and reformulated sentences look remark-ably similar.Selection Method Av.
zAlways select original sentence .61Replace cause-p, b-causeof-a and causeof-abwith cause-a & bec-ba with a-bec-b.48Replace cause-p with cause-a, b-causeof-awith causeof-ab & bec-ba with a-bec-b.47Always select most preferred type (a-becof-b) .27Table 1: Selecting a formulation of PubMed sentences fornon-science students using their global preferences.rewriting all instances of globally dispreferred con-structs with globally preferred constructs is counter-productive because not all formulations are accept-able for any given propositional content.
This claimis easily verified.
Table 1 shows the average z-scoresof non-science students when one formulation ofeach of the PubMed sentences is selected based onlyon the global preferences in Figure 2.
Such rewritinginvariably makes matters worse.
In the next sectionwe present a more intelligent approach.4 Machine learning experimentThe first question we address is: for a given propo-sitional content, which formulations are acceptableand which are not?
This is a useful question for mul-tiple reasons.
In this paper, our interest stems fromour desire to selectively rewrite causation based onthe properties of the sentence as well as global pref-erences of categories of users.
More generally, thisinformation is important for summarisation tasks,where sentences might appear in different contextsand different information orderings might be de-sirable for reasons of coherence.
Knowing whichformulations are acceptable in isolation for a givenpropositional content is thus important.Since Magnitude estimation scores are freescale,we first need to determine how high a score needs tobe for that formulation to be considered acceptable.Our solution is to (a) treat the original formulationas acceptable and (b) treat any reformulations witha higher average z-score than the original as also ac-ceptable.
We find that roughly 3 formulations (theoriginal and another two) out of 8 are acceptable onaverage.
Our data is summarised below:?
1152 Sentences in total (144 originals, 1008 refor-mulations)?
361 labelled as acceptable (31%; 144 origi-nals, 217 reformulations)1007?
791 labelled as unacceptable (69%; 791 refor-mulations)4.1 FeaturesWe use shallow features derived from the sentence,as well as the textual genre.
Sentences were parsedusing the RASP parser (Briscoe and Carroll, 2002).The features we extract are as follows:1.
Type (8 values: cause a, cause p, a bec b, bec ba,a becof b, becof ba, a causeof b, causeof ba)2.
Genre (3 values: pubmed, bnc-world, bnc-natsci)3.
Complexity: As an indication of the complexity ofthe propositional content, we use the following:(a) Length Features?
length (in words) of the sentence and eachclause?
length (as proportion of total length) ofeach clause(b) Whether the causative is embedded in a rela-tive clause or other construct(c) The presence or absence of copula in eachclause (e.g., ?because there is...?
)(d) Whether the causation is quantified (e.g., ?amajor cause of...?
)The only feature that varies between the eight for-mulations of the same sentence is the ?type?
feature;the ?genre?
and ?complexity?
features are constantacross reformulations.
The reason for using 3(c?d)as features is that expressions such as ?because thereis?
might be better formulated as ?because of?
andthat it is hard to find an exact reformulation whenquantifiers are present (e.g., ?a major cause of?
isnot equivalent to ?often because of?
).Machine performance on this task is not verygood (First Run, Table 2).
The problem is that somepropositional content is harder to formulate than oth-ers.
Therefore good formulations of some proposi-tional content might have much lower scores thaneven mediocre formulations of other propositionalcontent.
This makes it hard to learn a function thatdistinguishes good from bad formulations for anyparticular propositional content.
To overcome this,we run the classifier twice.
Given 8 formulationsof 144 sentences Si=1..144,j=1..8, the first run givesus 1152 probabilities pweka1(Sij) for the acceptabil-ity of each sentence, independent of propositionalcontent (these are test-set probabilities using 10-foldcross-validation).
We then run the machine learneragain, with this new feature relative:Classifier Accuracy KappaBaseline .69 0First Run .72 .23Second Run .85 .65Only PubMed .89 .73Table 2: Accuracy and Agreement of classifier relative tohuman judgement.Genre Class P R FAll Genres Good .72 .78 .75Bad .91 .89 .90Only PubMed Good .89 .89 .89Bad .89 .97 .92Table 3: Precision, Recall and F-measure of classifier(second run) relative to human judgement.?
The ratio of the test-set probability (from the firstrun) to the highest of the 8 test-set probabilities forthe different formulations of that sentence:relativei=a,j=b =pweka1(Si=a,j=b)maxi=a,j=1..8(pweka1(Si=a,j))Thus probabilities for acceptability are nor-malised such that the best score for a given proposi-tional content is 1 and the other 7 formulations scoreless than or equal to 1.
The second classifier usesthese relative probabilities as an extra feature.4.2 ResultsOur results are summarised in Table 2 (accu-racy and agreement) and Table 3 (f-measure).We experimented with the Weka toolkit (Wit-ten and Frank, 2000) and report results using?weka.classifiers.trees.J48 -C 0.3 -M 3?
and 10-foldcross-validation for both runs.5Table 2 shows that the first run performs at aroundbaseline levels, but the second run performs signifi-cantly better (using z-test, p=0.01 on % Accuracy),with acceptable agreement of ?
= 0.656.
This in-creases to 89% (?
= .73) when we only considertechnical writing (PubMed genre).
Table 3 showsthat precision, recall and f-measure are also around.90 for PubMed sentences.5J48 outperformed other Weka classifiers for this task.6Following Carletta (1996), we measure agreement in ?,which follows the formula K = P (A)?P (E)1?P (E) where P(A) is ob-served, and P(E) expected agreement.
?
ranges between -1 and1.
?=0 means agreement is only as expected by chance.
Gener-ally, ?
of 0.8 are considered stable, and ?
of 0.69 as marginallystable, according to the strictest scheme applied in the field.1008Left out feature First Run Second RunAcc ?
Acc ?Length .71 -.01 .78 .33Quantified .71 .20 .75 .36Embedded .69 .15 .78 .37Copula Present .72 .20 .79 .44Table 4: Accuracy and Kappa of classifier when com-plexity features are left out.All our context features proved useful for the clas-sification task, with the length features being themost useful.
Table 4 shows the performance of theclassifier when we leave out individual features.It thus appears that we can determine the accept-able formulations of a sentence with high accuracy.The next question is how this information might beused to benefit a text regeneration system.
To evalu-ate this, we combined our predictions with the userpreferences visible in figure 2 as follows:?
We calculate a prior prior j for each formulation oftype j using the z-score distribution for non-sciencestudents in Figure 2.?
We calculate prior j=b.pweka2(Si=a,j=b) for eachformulation Si=a,j=b of sentence a and type b,where pweka2(Si=a,j=b) is the probability returnedby the classifier (second run) for formulation b ofsentence a.?
Selectively Reformulate: We reformulate onlythe four dispreferred constructs (cause p, bec ba,causeof ab, b causeof a) using the formulation forwhich the prior times the classifier probabilityis the maximum; i.e, for sentence a, we selectmax i=a,j=1..8(prior j .pweka2(Si=a,j)).Table 5 shows the impact this reformulation hason the acceptability of the sentences.
Our algorithmselects one formulation of each PubMed sentencebased on our prior knowledge of the preferences ofnon-science students, and the Weka-probabilities foracceptability of each formulation of a sentence.
Ourselective reformulation increases the average z-scorefrom .613 to .713.
This is now comparable with theacceptability ratings of non-scientists for sentencesfrom the world news genre.
Note that reformulationonly using priors resulted in worse results (Table 1).However there remains scope for improvement.
Ifwe had an oracle that selected the best formulationof each sentence (as scored by non-scientists), thiswould result in an average score of 1.04.Genre Version z-scorePubMed Randomly Selected ?.17PubMed Original Sentences .61PubMed Selectively Reformulate .71PubMed Selected by Oracle 1.04BNC World Original Sentences .70Table 5: Average z-scores for non-science students.
Se-lective reformulation increases the acceptability scores ofsentences drawn from technical writing to levels com-parable to acceptability scores of sentences drawn fromnews reports on world news (their most preferred genre).5 Conclusions and future workIn this investigation we report that science andnon-science university students have different globalpreferences regarding which formulations of causa-tion are acceptable.
Using surface features that re-flect propositional complexity, a machine classifiercan learn which of 8 formulations of a discourserelation are acceptable (with Accuracy = .89 andKappa = .73 for sentences from the PubMed genre).Using the global preferences of non-science studentsas priors, and combining these with machine clas-sifier predictions of acceptability, we have demon-strated that it is possible to selectively rewrite sen-tences from PubMed in a manner that is personalisedfor non-science students.
This boosts the average z-score for acceptability from .613 to .713 on PubMedsentences, a level similar to scores of non-scientistsfor sentences from their most preferred World Newsgenre.
We have thus shown that there is potential forreformulating technical writing for a lay audience ?differences in preferences for expressing a discourserelation do exist between lay and expert audiences,and these can be learnt.While in this paper we focus on the discourse re-lation of causation, other discourse relations com-monly used in scientific writing can also be realisedusing markers with different syntactic properties; forinstance, contrast can be expressed using markerssuch as ?while?, ?unlike?, ?but?, ?compared to?, ?incontrast to?
or ?the difference between?.
As part ofour wider goals, we are in the process of extendingthe number of discourse relations considered.
Weare also in the process of developing a frameworkwithin which we can use transfer rules and a bi-directional grammar to automate such complex syn-tactic reformulation.1009AcknowledgementsThis work was supported by the Economic and So-cial Research Council (Grant Number RES-000-22-3272).
We would also like to thank Donia Scott,Simone Teufel and Ann Copestake for many dis-cussions that influenced the scope of this work, andJohn Williams and Theodora Alexopoulou for theirsuggestions on experimental design.ReferencesR.C.
Anderson and A. Davison.
1988.
Conceptual andempirical bases of readibility formulas.
In Alice Davi-son and G. M. Green, editors, Linguistic Complexityand Text Comprehension: Readability Issues Recon-sidered.
Lawrence Erlbaum Associates, Hillsdale, NJ.E.G.
Bard, D. Robertson, and A. Sorace.
1996.
Magni-tude estimation for linguistic acceptability.
Language,72(1):32?68.R.
Barzilay and L. Lee.
2003.
Learning to paraphrase:An unsupervised approach using multiple-sequencealignment.
In HLT-NAACL 2003, pp 16?23.I.L.
Beck, M.G.
McKeown, G.M.
Sinatra, and J.A.
Lox-terman.
1991.
Revising social studies text from a text-processing perspective: Evidence of improved com-prehensibility.
Reading Research Quarterly, pp 251?276.E.J.
Briscoe and J. Carroll.
2002.
Robust accurate sta-tistical annotation of general text.
In Proc.
of the 3rdInternational Conference on Language Resources andEvaluation, pp 1499?1504, Gran Canaria.J.
Carletta.
1996.
Assessing agreement on classificationtasks: The kappa statistic.
Computational Linguistics,22(2):249?254.J.
Carroll, G. Minnen, Y. Canning, S. Devlin, and J. Tait.1998.
Practical simplification of English newspapertext to assist aphasic readers.
In Proc.
of AAAI98Workshop on Integrating Artificial Intelligence and As-sistive Technology, pp 7?10, Madison, WI.W.
Cowart.
1997.
Experimental Syntax: applying objec-tive methods to sentence judgement.
Thousand Oaks,CA: Sage Publications.J.
Hirschberg and D. Litman.
1993.
Empirical studieson the disambiguation of cue phrases.
ComputationalLinguistics, 19(3):501?530.B.
Hutchinson.
2005.
Modelling the substitutabilityof discourse connectives.
In ACL ?05: Proc.
of the43rd Annual Meeting on Association for Computa-tional Linguistics, pp 149?156, Morristown, NJ, USA.Association for Computational Linguistics.A.
Ibrahim, B. Katz, and J. Lin.
2003.
Extracting para-phrases from aligned corpora.
In Proc.
of The SecondInternational Workshop on Paraphrasing.N.
Kaji, D. Kawahara, S. Kurohash, and S. Sato.
2002.Verb paraphrase based on case frame alignment.
InProc.
of the 40th Annual Meeting of the Associationfor Computational Linguistics (ACL?02), pp 215?222,Philadelphia, USA.F.
Keller, S. Gunasekharan, N. Mayo, and M. Corley.2008, to appear.
Timing accuracy of web experiments:A case study using the webexp software package.
Be-havior Research Methods.F.
Keller.
2000.
Gradience in Grammar: Experimentaland Computational Aspects of Degrees of Grammati-cality.
Ph.D. thesis, University of Edinburgh.A.
Knott and R. Dale.
1994.
Using linguistic phenom-ena to motivate a set of coherence relations.
DiscourseProcesses, 18(1):35?62.A.
Knott.
1996.
A Data-Driven Methodology for Moti-vating a Set of Discourse Relations.
Ph.D. thesis, Ph.D. thesis, Centre for Cognitive Science, University ofEdinburgh, Edinburgh, UK.T.
Linderholm, M.G.
Everson, P. van den Broek,M.
Mischinski, A. Crittenden, and J. Samuels.
2000.Effects of Causal Text Revisions on More-and Less-Skilled Readers?
Comprehension of Easy and DifficultTexts.
Cognition and Instruction, 18(4):525?556.W.
C. Mann and S. A. Thompson.
1988.
RhetoricalStructure Theory: Towards a functional theory of textorganization.
Text, 8(3):243?281.L.
G. M. Noordman and W. Vonk.
1992.
Reader?s knowl-edge and the control of inferences in reading.
Lan-guage and Cognitive Processes, 7:373?391.R.
Power, D. Scott, and N. Bouayad-Agha.
2003.
Gen-erating texts with style.
Proc.
of the 4 thInternationalConference on Intelligent Texts Processing and Com-putational Linguistics.A.
Siddharthan.
2006.
Syntactic simplification and textcohesion.
Research on Language and Computation,4(1):77?109.B.
Webber, A. Joshi, E. Miltsakaki, R. Prasad, N. Di-nesh, A. Lee, and K. Forbes.
2005.
A Short Intro-duction to the Penn Discourse TreeBank.
Treebankingfor discourse and speech: proceedings of the NODAL-IDA 2005 special session on Treebanks for spoken lan-guage and discourse.S.
Williams and E. Reiter.
2008.
Generating basic skillsreports for low-skilled readers.
Natural Language En-gineering, 14(04):495?525.I.
Witten and E. Frank.
2000.
Data Mining: PracticalMachine Learning Tools and Techniques with Java Im-plementations.
Morgan Kaufmann.P.
Wolff, B. Klettke, T. Ventura, and G. Song.
2005.Expressing causation in English and other languages.Categorization inside and outside the laboratory: Es-says in honor of Douglas L. Medin, pp 29?48.1010
