Proceedings of the NAACL HLT 2010: Demonstration Session, pages 5?8,Los Angeles, California, June 2010. c?2010 Association for Computational LinguisticsSummarizing Textual Information about LocationsIn a Geo-Spatial Information Display SystemCongxing Cai Eduard HovyInformation Sciences Institute Information Sciences InstituteUniversity of Southern California University of Southern CaliforniaMarina del Rey, California, USA 90292 Marina del Rey, California, USA 90292ccai@isi.edu hovy@isi.eduAbstractThis demo describes the summarization oftextual material about locations in the contextof a geo-spatial information display system.When the amount of associated textual data islarge, it is organized and summarized beforedisplay.
A hierarchical summarization frame-work, conditioned on the small space availa-ble for display, has been fully implemented.Snapshots of the system, with narrative de-scriptions, demonstrate our results.1 IntroductionGeospatial display systems are increasingly gain-ing attention, given the large amounts of geospatialdata and services available online.
Although geos-patial imagery and maps show geometric relationsamong entities, they cannot be used to present oth-er kinds of knowledge about the temporal, topic,and other conceptual relations and entities.
Givenan entity on a map, a description of what happenedthere, in what order in time, when, and why, re-quires additional types of information, typicallycontained in text, in order to support varied searchand decision tasks.In this demo, we apply text summarization to ageo-spatial information display system with poten-tially large amounts of textual data.
By summariz-ing the textual material linked to each location, wedemonstrate the ways one can organize this ma-terial for optimal display and search.Of the many different types of text-oriented re-sources available, some are structured and othersunstructured.
This textual data can be linked tolocations based on different reasons (containingplace names, addresses, real objects with geo-graphical features, etc.).
Appropriately groupingand presenting the different aspects of the textualinformation in summarization is a challenging task.A second challenge stems from the huge amountsof web material related to some geographical ob-jects.
For example, one may find millions of pagesfor a famous place or event at a specific map loca-tion.
Given the common limitations of displayspace in most geospatial display systems, one mustalso design the interface to support dynamicbrowsing and search.All these challenges bring new problems to exist-ing summarization techniques.
In the followingsections, we demonstrate a hierarchical summari-zation framework that reduces displayed text andfully utilizes the small display space available fortextual information.2 Related WorkAssociating each news page individually to its lo-cation(s) may overwhelm the amount of informa-tion displayable at any point and thereby limit thescalability of the system.
Existing systems pre-sented in (Teitler et al, 2008) and GeoTracker(Chen et al 2007) organize material (at the arealevel) by time instead of somehow aggregatingover larger numbers of related content.
Since fre-quently the associated news contents overlap atleast in part, a natural solution is to aggregate thecontent somehow to remove duplication.
Moreo-ver, the aggregation of news provides a globalview of the textual information about the specific5location.
Our system is the first available geo-spatial text aggregation system to our knowledge.Within geospatial display systems, the space avail-able to display textual information is often quitelimited.
We therefore need to summarize the mostimportant and relevant information about each lo-cation, drawing from all the web pages linked to it.However, directly applying a multi-documentsummarization (Lin and Hovy, 2001) to the webpages will generate poor results, due to unrelatedtitles, duplicate articles, and noisy contents con-tained in web pages.
When several different eventshave occurred at a location, more than one distinctsummary may be needed.
It is therefore importantto deploy topic recognition (Lin and Hovy, 2000)and/or topic clustering (Osinski and Weiss, 2005)to identify and group relevant pieces of each textinto single-topic ?chunks?.
We develop a novelhierarchical summarization system to improve theinteractivity and browsability.3 Text Summarization3.1 Content Extraction and SummarizationMulti-webpage summarization is different fromtraditional multi-doc summarization.
First, mostweb pages are much more complex than pure textdocuments.
Since the web contains a combinationof types of information?static text, image, videos,dynamic layout, etc.
?even a single page can betreated as multiple documents.
Current linkingfunctions are based on keywords, making the rele-vant content of each relevant web page only a li-mited block within the page.
Second, our task isoriented to locations, and hence differs from gen-eral content summarization.
Hence, we need toidentify and extract the essential part(s) of thewebpage linked to the geospatial imagery forsummarization and display.
In our work, we utilizetwo important features, layout and semantics, toidentify and extract the relevant content.By rendering each web page into a DOM tree, wesegment the page into large blocks based on itslayout, including header, footer, left bar, right bar,main block, etc.
We implemented a rule-based ex-tractor to extract the most relevant block from theweb page based on the relevance to the location.3.2 ClusteringGiven a list of text blocks relevant to a local pointof interest, one can employ traditional text summa-rization techniques to produce a short summary foreach one.
This solution may not be helpful, how-ever, since a long list of pages associated with eachpoint of interest would be very hard for users tobrowse.
Especially when the space allocated to textdisplay by the geospatial system is also limited, ahigh compression ratio is typically required for thesummarization system.The solution we adopt is to deploy cluster-basedmulti-document summarization.
Clustering mustobserve two criteria: first, the location of interest,and second, the text topic.
Different clustering me-thods can be employed.
To delimit topics, a simpleheuristic is to introduce as additional criterion theevent/article date: when the difference in documentdates within a topical cluster is (far) larger than theactual duration of the topic event, we are probablydealing with multiple separate events at the samelocation.
Better performance is obtained by using atopic detection module first, and then clusteringdocuments based on the topics identified.Unfortunately, documents usually contain multiplelocations and multiple topics.
The problem of ?top-ic drift?
can cause confusion in a short summary.As in (Hearst, 1997), we segment each documentinto several ?mini-documents?, each one devoted toa single topic, and then to perform location- andtopic-based clustering over the (now larger) set ofmini-documents.3.3 Hierarchical Summary GenerationWhatever the clustering approach, the result is apotentially rather large set of individual topics as-sociated with each location.
Since screen space forthe summaries may be very limited next to themaps / imagery, they have to be formatted and pre-sented for maximal interpretability.
To address thisproblem, we adopt a hierarchical structure to dis-play incrementally longer summaries for each loca-tion of interest.
At present we have found threelevels of incrementally longer summaries to bemost useful.Thumbnail: a very short ?topic?
that characte-rizes the (clusters of) documents or segments asso-ciated with each location.
We present essentiallyone or two single keywords -- the most informative6words for each cluster.
We implemented a newversion of our topic signature technology, one thatuses tf.idf instead of the entropy ratio, as scoringmeasure to rank each cluster?s words.Title: a headline-length phrase or short sen-tence (or two).
The original titles of the web pagesare often noisy or even unrelated to the current top-ic cluster.
Sometimes, the title may be meaningless(it might for example contain the website?s name?Pr Newswire?
), or two different web pages mayshare the same title.
We implemented a topic-related headline generator based on our previouswork (Lin and Hovy, 2000) by incorporating a top-ic-based selector.Snippet: a paragraph-length excerpt characteriz-ing the cluster.
To produce paragraph-length sum-maries, we implemented an extraction-based textsummarizer.
We built a new version of previouslyinvestigated technology (Lin and Hovy, 2001),implementing several sentence scoring techniquesand a score combination function.4 Demonstration4.1 Geospatial InteractionThe hierarchical summarization service is builtupon the geo-spatial information display system,GeoXRAY1, a commercial product developed byGeosemble Technologies2.
Figure 1 shows the sys-tem?s display to support search and browsing oftext content based on location of interest.Figure 1.
Geospatial Information Display System1GeoXRAY: http://www.geosemble.com/products_geoxray.html2Geosemble Technologies: http://www.geosemble.com/The user can enter an address in the top searchbox, or search by business name.
The system thencenters the imagery at that address or business.Clicking on ?Get Features?
invokes the web ser-vices to get al features about the displayed imageand displays the features in the ?AREA: FeaturesFound?
list, and also draws them as points on themaps.The user can explore the map using the navigationcontroller.
On clicking the marker of an identifiedbuilding, an information window pops up contain-ing the associated structured web information(building name, business type, website, online im-ages, and so on), as shown in Figure 2.Figure 2.
Navigating the Integrated MapClicking on ?Get News?
retrieves all news relatedto the displayed features; features with associatednews show a small newspaper icon (see next to?Sony Pictures Entertainment?
in Figure 4).
Click-ing on the icon displays the news that was linkedwith the feature, sorted by date.The hierarchical summarization system, describedin this paper extends the GeoXRAY system toshow a summarized view of the news.
The user canclick on the ?Cluster News?
link.
The results aredisplayed in a tree, showing the title of the cluster(thumbnail and title), under which appears a smallsummary of the cluster, under which appear linksto all the news articles belonging to that cluster.4.2 Summarization ExampleWe provide an example of our text summariza-tion system performance in Figure 3.
In this exam-ple, we have selected the location of Sony FilmStudios in Culver City by clicking on the map.Figure 3(a) shows the titles and dates of some of7the 126 news articles that contain the words ?SonyPictures Entertainment?.
As described above, thesedocuments are clustered based on topics.
Using ourcurrent parameter settings, 20 multi-result clustersare formed, leaving 34 results unclustered.
(Thesize of clusters, or the number of clusters desired,can be varied by the user.)
As mentioned above,each cluster is presented to the users by a minimallength thumbnail summary consisting of a few cha-racteristic keywords; a partial list of these is shownin Figure 3(b).
Figure 3(c) shows the result of se-lecting the cluster labeled ?solar electrical system?
(second from the bottom in Figure 3(b)), whichcontains two results.
The summary contains the 5top-ranked sentences from the two documents, pre-sented in document order.
In addition, the sum-mary includes two hyperlinks to the two full textsfor further inspection.
(a) Partial list of the news articles linked to Sony PicturesEntertainment(b) Clustering results relevant to Sony Pictures Entertainment(c) Summarization from the news articles in cluster Solarelectricity systemFigure 3.
Document clustering and summarization for newsrelevant to Sony Picture EntertainmentThe summary illustrates some of the strengths butalso the shortcomings of the current system.
It isclearly about a solar energy system installed in2007 on top of the Jimmy Stewart Building by EISolutions.
This is enough detail for a user to de-termine whether or not to read the texts any fur-ther.
However, two of the extracted sentences arenot satisfactory: sentence 2 is broken off and sen-tence 3 should not be part of the news text at all.Premature sentence breaks result from inadequatepunctuation and line break processing, which isstill a research problem exacerbated by the com-plexity of web pages.By showing the summary results, we merely dem-onstrate the improvement on browsability of thesearch system.
We are relatively satisfied with theresults.
While the summaries are not always verygood, they are uniformly understandable and com-pletely adequate to prove that one can combinegeospatial information access and text summariza-tion in a usable and coherent manner.AcknowledgmentsThanks to Geosemble Technologies for providingsupport of the geospatial information system.ReferencesYih-Farn Robin Chen, Giuseppe Di Fabbrizio, DavidGibbon, Serban Jora,  Bernard Renger and Bin Wei.Geotracker: Geospatial and temporal rss navigation.In WWW ?07: Proceedings of the 16th InternationalConference on World Wide Web, 2007.Marti A. Hearst.
TexTiling: Segmenting text into multi-paragraph subtopic passages.
Computational Linguis-tics, 23(1):33?64, 1997.Chin-Yew Lin and Eduard Hovy.
The automated acqui-sition of topic signatures for text summarization.
InProceedings of the 18th Conference on Computation-al Linguistics, 2000.Chin-Yew Lin and Eduard Hovy.
From single to multi-document summarization: A prototype system and itsevaluation.
In ACL ?02: Proceedings of the 40th An-nual Meeting on Association for Computational Lin-guistics, 2001.Stanislaw Osinski and Dawid Weiss.
Carrot2: Design ofa flexible and efficient web information retrievalframework.
In AWIC, 2005.Benjamin E. Teitler, Michael D. Lieberman, DanielePanozzo, Jagan Sankaranarayanan, Hanan Samet andJon Sperling.
Newsstand: a new view on news.
InGIS ?08: Proceedings of the 16th ACM SIGSPATIALinternational conference on Advances in geographicinformation systems, 2008.8
