Proceedings of the NAACL HLT 2010: Demonstration Session, pages 41?44,Los Angeles, California, June 2010. c?2010 Association for Computational LinguisticsSIMPLIFICA: a tool for authoring simplified texts inBrazilian Portuguese guided by readability assessmentsCarolina  Scarton, Matheus de Oliveira,  Arnaldo Candido Jr.,Caroline Gasperin and Sandra Maria Alu?sioDepartment of Computer Sciences, University of S?o PauloAv.
Trabalhador S?o-Carlense, 400.
13560-970 - S?o Carlos/SP, Brazil{carolina@grad,matheusol@grad,arnaldoc@,cgasperin@,sandra@}icmc.usp.brAbstractSIMPLIFICA is an authoring tool for produc-ing simplified texts in Portuguese.
It providesfunctionalities for lexical and syntactic simpli-fication and for readability assessment.
Thistool is the first of its kind for Portuguese; itbrings innovative aspects for simplificationtools in general, since the authoring process isguided by readability assessment based on thelevels of literacy of the Brazilian population.1 IntroductionIn order to promote digital inclusion and accessi-bility for people with low levels of literacy, partic-ularly access to documents available on the web, itis important to provide textual information in asimple and easy way.
Indeed, the Web ContentAccessibility Guidelines (WCAG) 2.01 establishesa set of guidelines that discuss accessibility issuesand provide accessibility design solutions.
WCAGrequirements address not only structure and tech-nological aspects, but also how the content shouldbe made available to users.
However, Web devel-opers are not always responsible for content prepa-ration and authoring in a Website.
Moreover, in thecontext of Web 2.0 it becomes extremely difficultto develop completely WCAG conformant Web-sites, since users without any prior knowledgeabout the guidelines directly participate on the con-tent authoring process of Web applications.1 http://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG20/In Brazil, since 2001, the INAF index (NationalIndicator of Functional Literacy) has been com-puted annually to measure the levels of literacy ofthe Brazilian population.
The 2009 report pre-sented a still worrying scenario: 7% of the individ-uals were classified as illiterate; 21% as literate atthe rudimentary level; 47% as literate at the basiclevel; and only 25% as literate at the advanced lev-el (INAF, 2009).
These literacy levels are definedas: (1) Illiterate: individuals who cannot performsimple tasks such as reading words and phrases;(2) Rudimentary: individuals who can find expli-cit information in short and familiar texts (such asan advertisement or a short letter); (3) Basic: indi-viduals who can read and understand texts of aver-age length, and find information even when it isnecessary to make some inference; and (4) Ad-vanced/Fully: individuals who can read longertexts, relating their parts, comparing and interpret-ing information, distinguish fact from opinion,make inferences and synthesize.We present in this paper the current version ofan authoring tool named SIMPLIFICA.
It helpsauthors to create simple texts targeted at poor lite-rate readers.
It extends the previous version pre-sented in Candido et al (2009) with two new mod-ules: lexical simplification and the assessment ofthe level of complexity of the input texts.
Thestudy is part of the PorSimples project2 (Simplifi-cation of Portuguese Text for Digital Inclusion andAccessibility) (Aluisio et al, 2008).This paper is organized as follows.
In Section 22 http://caravelas.icmc.usp.br/wiki/index.php/Principal41we describe SIMPLIFICA and the underlyingtechnology for lexical and syntactic simplification,and for readability assessment.
In Section 3 wesummarize the interaction steps that we propose toshow in the demonstration session targeting textsfor low-literate readers of Portuguese.
Section 4presents final remarks with emphasis on why de-monstrating this system is relevant.2 SIMPLIFICA authoring toolSIMLIFICA is a web-based WYSIWYG editor,based on TinyMCE web editor3.
The user inputs atext in the editor and customizes the simplificationsettings, where he/she can choose: (i) strong sim-plification, where all the complex syntactic phe-nomena (see details in Section 2.2) are treated foreach sentence, or customized simplification, wherethe user chooses one or more syntactic simplifica-tion phenomena to be treated for each sentence,and (ii) one or more thesauri to be used in the syn-tactic and lexical simplification processes.
Thenthe user activates the readability assessment mod-ule to predict the complexity level of a text.
Thismodule maps the text to one of the three levels ofliteracy defined by INAF: rudimentary, basic oradvanced.
According to the resulting readabilitylevel the user can trigger the lexical and/or syntac-tic simplifications modules, revise the automaticsimplification and restart the cycle by checking thereadability level of the current version of the text.Figure 1 summarizes how the three modules areintegrated and below we describe in more detailthe SIMPLIFICA modules.Figure 1.
Steps of the authoring process.3 http://tinymce.moxiecode.com/2.1 Lexical SimplificationBasically, the first part of the lexical simplificationprocess consists of tokenizing the original text andmarking the words that are considered complex.
Inorder to judge a word as complex or not, we use 3dictionaries created for the PorSimples project: onecontaining words common to youngsters, a secondone composed by frequent words extracted fromnews texts for children and nationwide newspa-pers, and a third one containing concrete words.The lexical simplification module also uses theUnitex-PB dictionary4 for finding the lemma of thewords in the text, so that it is possible to look for itin the simple words dictionaries.
The problem oflooking for a lemma directly in a dictionary is thatthere are ambiguous words and we are not able todeal with different word senses.
For dealing withpart-of-speech (POS) ambiguity, we use theMXPOST POS tagger5 trained over NILC tagset6.After the text is tagged, the words that are notproper nouns, prepositions and numerals are se-lected, and their POS tags are used to look for theirlemmas in the dictionaries.
As the tagger has not a100% precision and some words may not be in thedictionary, we look for the lemma only (withoutthe tag) when we are not able to find the lemma-tag combination in the dictionary.
Still, if we arenot able to find the word, the lexical simplificationmodule assumes that the word is complex andmarks it for simplification.The last step of the process consists in providingsimpler synonyms for the marked words.
For thistask, we use the thesauri for Portuguese TeP 2.07and the lexical ontology for Portuguese PAPEL8.This task is carried out when the user clicks on amarked word, which triggers a search in the the-sauri for synonyms that are also present in thecommon words dictionary.
If simpler words arefound, they are listed in order, from the simpler tothe more complex ones.
To determine this order,we used Google API to search each word in theweb: we assume that the higher a word frequency,the simpler it is.
Automatic word sense disambigu-ation is left for future work.4 http://www.nilc.icmc.usp.br/nilc/projects/unitex-pb/web/dicionarios.html5 http://sites.google.com/site/adwaitratnaparkhi/home6 www.nilc.icmc.usp.br/nilc/TagSet/ManualEtiquetagem.htm7 http://www.nilc.icmc.usp.br/tep2/8 http://www.linguateca.pt/PAPEL/422.2 Syntactic SimplificationSyntactic simplification is accomplished by a rule-based system, which comprises seven operationsthat are applied sentence-by-sentence to a text inorder to make its syntactic structure simpler.Our rule-based text simplification system isbased on a manual for Brazilian Portuguese syntac-tic simplification (Specia et al, 2008).
Accordingto this manual, simplification operations should beapplied when any of the 22 linguistic phenomenacovered by our system (see Candido et al (2009)for details) is detected.
Our system treats apposi-tive, relative, coordinate and subordinate clauses,which had already been addressed by previouswork on text simplification (Siddharthan, 2003).Additionally, we treat passive voice, sentences inan order other than Subject-Verb-Object (SVO),and long adverbial phrases.
The simplification op-erations available to treat these phenomena are:split sentence, change particular discourse markersby simpler ones, change passive to active voice,invert the order of clauses, convert to subject-verb-object ordering, and move long adverbial phrases.Each sentence is parsed in order to identify syn-tactic phenomena for simplification and to segmentthe sentence into portions that will be handled bythe operations.
We use the parser PALAVRAS(Bick, 2000) for Portuguese.
Gasperin et al (2010)present the evaluation of the performance of oursyntactic simplification system.Since our syntactic simplifications are conserva-tive, the simplified texts become longer than theoriginal ones due to sentence splitting.
We ac-knowledge that low-literacy readers prefer shorttexts, and in the future we aim to provide summa-rization within SIMPLIFICA (see (Watanabe et al,2009)).
Here, the shortening of the text is a respon-sibility of the author.2.3 Readability assessmentWith our readability assessment module, we canpredict the readability level of a text, which cor-responds to the literacy level expected from thetarget reader: rudimentary, basic or advanced.We have adopted a machine-learning classifierto identify the level of the input text; we use theSupport Vector Machines implementation fromWeka9 toolkit (SMO).
We have used 7 corpora9 http://www.cs.waikato.ac.nz/ml/weka/within 2 different genres (general news and popu-lar science articles) to train the classifier.
Three ofthese corpora contain original texts published inonline newspapers and magazines.
The other cor-pora contain manually simplified versions of mostof the original texts.
These were simplified by alinguist, specialized in text simplification, accord-ing to the two levels of simplification proposed inour project, natural and strong, which result intexts adequate for the basic and rudimentary litera-cy levels, respectively.Our feature set is composed by cognitively-motivated features derived from the Coh-Metrix-PORT tool10, which is an adaptation for BrazilianPortuguese of Coh-Metrix 2.0 (free version ofCoh-Metrix (Graesser et al 2003)) also developedin the context of the PorSimples project.
Coh-Metrix-PORT implements the metrics in Table 1.Categories Subcategories MetricsShallowReadabili-ty metric- Flesch Reading Ease indexfor Portuguese.Words andtextualinforma-tionBasic counts Number of words, sen-tences, paragraphs, wordsper sentence, sentences perparagraph, syllables perword, incidence of verbs,nouns, adjectives and ad-verbs.Frequencies Raw frequencies of contentwords and minimum fre-quency of content words.Hyperonymy Average number of hyper-nyms of verbs.Syntacticinforma-tionConstituents Incidence of nominalphrases, modifiers per nounphrase and words preced-ing main verbs.Pronouns,Types andTokensIncidence of personal pro-nouns, number of pronounsper noun phrase, types andtokens.Connectives Number of connectives,number of positive andnegative additive connec-tives, causal / temporal /logical positive and nega-tive connectives.Logicaloperators- Incidence of the particles?e?
(and), ?ou?
(or), ?se?
(if), incidence of negationand logical operators.Table 1.
Metrics of Coh-Metrix-PORT.10 http://caravelas.icmc.usp.br:3000/43We also included seven new metrics to Coh-Metrix-PORT: average verb, noun, adjective andadverb ambiguity, incidence of high-level constitu-ents, content words and functional words.We measured the performance of the classifieron identifying the levels of the input texts by across-validation experiment.
We trained the clas-sifier on our 7 corpora and reached 90% F-measureon identifying texts at advanced level, 48% at basiclevel, and 73% at rudimentary level.3.
A working session at SIMPLIFICAIn the NAACL demonstration section we aim topresent all functionalities of the tool for authoringsimple texts, SIMPLIFICA.
We will run all stepsof the authoring process ?
readability assessment,lexical simplification and syntactic simplification ?in order to demonstrate the use of the tool in pro-ducing a text for basic and rudimentary readers ofPortuguese, regarding the lexical and the syntacticcomplexity of an original text.We outline a script of our demonstration athttp://www.nilc.icmc.usp.br/porsimples/demo/demo_script.htm.
In order to help the understanding bynon-speakers of Portuguese we provide the transla-tions of the example texts shown.4.
Final RemarksA tool for authoring simple texts in Portuguese isan innovative software, as are all the modules thatform the tool.
Such tool is extremely important inthe construction of texts understandable by the ma-jority of the Brazilian population.
SIMPLIFICA?starget audience is varied and includes: teachers thatuse online text for reading practices; publishers;journalists aiming to reach poor literate readers;content providers for distance learning programs;government agencies that aim to communicate tothe population as a whole; companies that producetechnical manuals and medicine instructions; usersof legal language, in order to facilitate the under-standing of legal documents by lay people; andexperts in language studies and computational lin-guistics for future research.Future versions of SIMPLIFICA will also pro-vide natural simplification, where the target sen-tences for simplifications are chosen by a machinelearning classifier (Gasperin et al, 2009).AcknowledgmentsWe thank FAPESP and Microsoft Research forsupporting the PorSimples projectReferencesSandra Alu?sio, Lucia Specia, Thiago Pardo, Erick Ma-ziero and Renata Fortes.
2008.
Towards BrazilianPortuguese Automatic Text Simplification Systems.
InProceedings of The Eight ACM Symposium on Doc-ument Engineering (DocEng 2008),  240-248, S?oPaulo, Brasil.Eckhard Bick.
2000.
The Parsing System "Palavras":Automatic Grammatical Analysis of Portuguese in aConstraint Grammar Framework.
PhD thesis.
Aa-rhus University.Arnaldo Candido Junior, Erick Maziero, Caroline Gas-perin, Thiago Pardo, Lucia Specia and Sandra M. A-luisio.
2009.
Supporting the Adaptation of Texts forPoor Literacy Readers: a Text Simplification Editorfor Brazilian Portuguese.
In the Proceedings of theNAACL HLT Workshop on Innovative Use of NLPfor Building Educational Applications, pages 34?42,Boulder, Colorado, June 2009.Caroline Gasperin; Lucia Specia; Tiago Pereira andSandra Alu?sio.
2009.
Learning When to SimplifySentences for Natural Text Simplification.
In: Pro-ceedings of ENIA 2009,  809-818.Caroline Gasperin, Erick Masiero and Sandra M. Alui-sio.
2010.
Challenging choices for text simplifica-tion.
Accepted for publication in Propor 2010(http://www.inf.pucrs.br/~propor2010/).Arthur Graesser, Danielle McNamara, Max  Louwerseand Zhiqiang Cai.
2004.
Coh-Metrix: Analysis oftext on cohesion and language.
In: Behavioral Re-search Methods, Instruments, and Computers, 36,p?ginas 193-202.INAF.
2009.
Instituto P. Montenegro and A?
?o Educa-tiva.
INAF Brasil - Indicador de Alfabetismo Funcio-nal - 2009.
Online available at http://www.ibope.com.br/ipm/relatorios/relatorio_inaf_2009.pdfAdvaith Siddharthan.
2003.
Syntactic Simplification andText Cohesion.
PhD Thesis.
University ofCambridge.Lucia Specia, Sandra Aluisio and Tiago Pardo.
2008.Manual de Simplifica?
?o Sint?tica para o Portugu?s.Technical Report NILC-TR-08-06, 27 p. Junho 2008,S?o Carlos-SP.Willian Watanabe, Arnaldo Candido Junior, Vin?ciusUz?da, Renata Fortes, Tiago Pardo and Sandra Alu?-sio.
2009.
Facilita: reading assistance for low-literacy readers.
In Proceedings of the 27th ACM In-ternational Conference on Design of Communication.SIGDOC '09.
ACM, New York, NY, 29-36.44
