Human Language Technologies: The 2010 Annual Conference of the North American Chapter of the ACL, pages 313?316,Los Angeles, California, June 2010. c?2010 Association for Computational LinguisticsCreating Local Coherence: An Empirical AssessmentAnnie LouisUniversity of PennsylvaniaPhiladelphia, PA 19104, USAlannie@seas.upenn.eduAni NenkovaUniversity of PennsylvaniaPhiladelphia, PA 19104, USAnenkova@seas.upenn.eduAbstractTwo of the mechanisms for creating naturaltransitions between adjacent sentences in atext, resulting in local coherence, involve dis-course relations and switches of focus of at-tention between discourse entities.
These twoaspects of local coherence have been tradi-tionally discussed and studied separately.
Butsome empirical studies have given strong evi-dence for the necessity of understanding howthe two types of coherence-creating devicesinteract.
Here we present a joint corpus studyof discourse relations and entity coherence ex-hibited in news texts from the Wall Street Jour-nal and test several hypotheses expressed inearlier work about their interaction.1 IntroductionCoherent discourse is characterized by local prop-erties that are crucial for comprehension.
In fact, along line of linguistics and computational linguisticstradition has proposed that several levels of struc-ture contribute to the creation of coherent discourse.Among these, the attentional structure (Grosz etal., 1995) and the relational structure (Mann andThompson, 1988) of text, are the most widely dis-cussed in the literature.Centering theory (Grosz et al, 1995) is the dom-inant approach for describing and analyzing atten-tional structure.
It assumes that readers of the textfocus (center) their attention on a small number ofsalient discourse entities at a time and that there arepreferred patterns for switching attention betweenentities mentioned in adjacent sentences.
RelationalThis work was partially supported by NSF Grant IIS -07-05671.structure theories, on the other hand, describe howcertain discourse (also called rhetorical or coher-ence) relations such as CONTRAST and CAUSE areinferred by the reader between adjacent units of text.The existence of richly annotated corpora and thedevelopment of automatic applications based on thetheories have allowed empirical assessments of thevalidity and generality of these theories individually.Such work has also provided increasingly strongevidence that attentional and relational structuresneed to be taken into account simultaneously.
Themotivation behind such proposals have been the em-pirical findings that ?weak?
discourse relations suchas ELABORATION are the most common type of re-lations, and that a large percentage of adjacent sen-tences in fact do not have any entities in common.In particular, a corpus based evaluation of Center-ing theory found that only 42% of pairs of adjacentsentences have at least one entity in common andhypothesized that discourse relations are responsiblefor creating local coherence in the remaining cases(Poesio et al, 2004).
At the same time, the workof Knott et al (2001) has discussed several theo-retical complications arising from the existence ofthe very common and semantically weak ELABO-RATION relation.
These researchers propose that re-placing ELABORATION by an account of entity co-herence such as Centering will be most beneficial.But work in information ordering (Karamanis, 2007)has not been able to confirm such claims that betterresults can be obtained by combining entity coher-ence with discourse relations.Till recently, the absence of large corpora anno-tated for both discourse relations and coreference in-formation has prohibited a detailed joint analysis ofattentional and relational structure.
We combine two313recently released corpora: discourse relations fromthe Penn Discourse Treebank and coreference an-notations from the OntoNotes corpus, to assess theprevalence and interplay between factors that createlocal coherence in newspaper text.Specifically, in our study we examine how threehypotheses formulated in prior work play out in theWall Street Journal texts in our corpus:Hypothesis 1 Adjacent sentences that do not shareentities are related by non-elaboration discourse re-lations [Poesio et al (2004) Sec.
5.2.2 Pg.
354].Hypothesis 2 Adjacent sentences joined by non-elaboration discourse relation have lower entity co-herence: such pairs are less likely to mention thesame entities [Knott et al (2001) Sec.
7 Pg.
10].Hypothesis 3 Almost all pairs of sentences in a co-herent text either share entities or participate in non-elaboration discourse relation (Knott et al, 2001;Poesio et al, 2004).None of these hypotheses are validated.
We findthat only 38.65% of pairs that do not share enti-ties participate in ?core?
relations such as tempo-ral, contingency or comparison; the rate of coref-erence in these ?core?
relations is similar to that inweaker elaboration relations; about 30% of all sen-tence pairs neither share entities nor participate in a?core?
discourse relation.2 DataIn order to jointly analyze both discourse relationsand noun phrase coreference between adjacent sen-tences, we combine annotations from two corpora,OntoNotes and the Penn Discourse Treebank.
Thetwo individual corpora are larger, but a smaller sub-set of 590 Wall Street Journal articles appear in both.All our analysis is for adjacent sentences withinparagraphs in this subset of texts.Penn Discourse Treebank The Penn DiscourseTreebank (PDTB) (Prasad et al, 2008) is the largestavailable corpus of annotations for discourse rela-tions, covering one million words of the Wall StreetJournal (WSJ).
In the PDTB, two kinds of discourserelations are annotated.
In explicit relations, a dis-course connective such as ?because?, ?but?
or ?so?is present, as in the example below.[Ex.
1] There is an incredible pressure on school systemsand teachers to raise test scores.
So efforts to beat the tests arealso on the rise.On the other hand, relations can also exist withoutan explicit signal.
In Ex.
2, it is clear that the secondsentence is the result of the event mentioned in thefirst.[Ex.
2] In July, the Environmental Protection Agency im-posed a gradual ban on virtually all uses of asbestos.
By 1997,almost all remaining uses of cancer-causing asbestos will beoutlawed.Such relations are called implicit relations.
In thePDTB, they are annotated between all adjacent sen-tences within a paragraph which do not already par-ticipate in an explicit discourse relation.For both implicit and explicit relations, the se-mantic sense of the discourse relation is assignedfrom a hierarchy of senses.
There are four classesof discourse relations at the topmost general level.The second level senses are shown within paran-theses: Comparison (Concession, Contrast, PragmaticConcession/Contrast), Contingency (Cause, Condition,Pragmatic Cause/Condition), Temporal (Asynchronous,Synchronous) and Expansion (Alternative, Conjunction,Exception, Instantiation, List, Restatement).Some of the adjacent sentences in the texts, how-ever, were found not to have a discourse relation be-tween the events or propositions mentioned in them.Instead, they were related because both sentencesmention the same entity, directly or indirectly, andthe second sentence provides some further descrip-tion of that entity.
An Entity Relation (EntRel) wasannotated for such sentence pairs as below.[Ex.
3] Pierre Vinken, 61 years old, will join the board asa nonexecutive director Nov. 29.
Mr. Vinken is chairman ofElsevier N.V., the Dutch publishing group.OntoNotes For coreference information, we usethe WSJ portion of the OntoNotes corpus version 2.9(Hovy et al, 2006) which contains 590 documents.For these documents, we also have the PDTB anno-tations available.
In OntoNotes, all noun phrases?pronouns, names and nominals are marked for coref-erence without any limitation to specific semanticcategories.3 Corpus study findingsFor ease of presentation in the following analy-sis, we will call the Expansion and Entity relations?weak?
and Temporal, Contingency and Compari-3140 to 100 0.41 500 to 1000 0.50100 to 200 0.37 above 1000 0.51200 to 500 0.48Table 1: Proportion of sentence pairs that don?t share anyentities for different document lengths (in words)Type Relation No shared entitiesCoreTemporal 122 (2.98)Contingency 752 (18.40)Comparison 706 (17.27)Weak Expansion 1870 (45.74)EntRel 638 (15.61)Table 2: Distribution of the 4088 non-entity sharing sen-tence pairs.
The proportions are shown in brackets.son relations ?core?, following the intuition that thesemantics of the latter class is much more clearlydefined.
Implicit and explicit relations were not dis-tinguished in the analysis.1Hypothesis 1 The first hypothesis is that adja-cent sentences that do not share entities participatein core relations and so remain locally coherent.Pairs of adjacent sentences that do not share anyentities are common.
In prior work, Poesio et al(2004) found that 58% of adjacent sentence pairs intheir corpus of museum object descriptions did nothave overlapping mentions of any entity.
The distri-bution in the WSJ texts is similar, as seen in Table 1.Depending on the length of the article, 37% to 51%of sentence pairs do not have any entity in common.2Table 2 shows the distribution of discourse rela-tions for the 4088 sentence pairs in the corpus thatdo not share any entities.
Contrary to expectation,the majority of such pairs, 61%, are related by aweak discourse relation.
Especially unexpected isthe high percentage of entity relations (EntRel) thatdon?t have actual entity overlap:[Ex.
4] All four demonstrators were arrested.
The law,which Bush allowed to take effect without his signature, wentinto force Friday.[Ex.
5] Authorities in Hawaii said the wreckage of a missingcommuter plane with 20 people aboard was spotted in a remotevalley on the island of Molokai.
There wasn?t any evidence ofsurvivors.1For brevity we present combined results for both implicitand explicit relations.
However, most of our conclusions remainthe same when the two types are distinguished.2There are around 100 documents in each length range.Type Relation Total Share entitiesCoreTemporal 365 243 (66.57)Contingency 1570 818 (52.10)Comparison 1477 771 (52.20)Weak Expansion 3569 1699 (47.60)EntRel 1424 786 (55.20)Table 3: Rate of entity sharingShare entities No sharingcore relations 1832 (21.80) 1580 (18.80)weak relations 2485 (29.56) 2508 (29.84)Table 4: Total number (proportion) of sentence pairs inthe corpus in the given categoriesHypothesis 2 The second hypothesis states thatadjacent sentences joined by a core discourse rela-tion are less likely to mention the same entities incomparison to weak relations.
But as Table 3 re-veals, this is generally not the case.Adjacent sentences in Temporal relation are verylikely to share entities?almost 70% of them do.Over half of all Contingency and Comparison rela-tions also share entities.
But, the rates of sharing inComparison and Contingency relations are signifi-cantly lower compared to Entity relations (under atwo-sided binomial test).
Ex.
6 shows a Contin-gency relation without entity sharing.[Ex.
6] Without machines, good farms can?t get bigger.
Sothe potato crop, once 47 million tons, is down to 35.However, adjacent sentences with Expansion rela-tion turn out least likely to share entities.
The entitysharing rates of all the other relations were found tobe significantly higher than Expansion.Hypothesis 3 Finally, we test the hypothesis thatthe majority of adjacent sentences exhibit coherencebecause they either share entities or form the argu-ments of a core discourse relation.This hypothesis is not supported in the WSJ data(see Table 4): 30% of all sentence pairs are in a weakdiscourse relation?Expansion or EntRel?and donot have any entities in common.
In a sense, nei-ther of the theories of entity or relational coherencecan explain what mechanisms create the local coher-ence for these pairs.
In order to glean some insightsof how coherence is created there, we examine thebehavior of different types of Elaboration relations(Table 5).
There is a wide variation between the dif-315Alternative 67 (0.63) Instantiation 490 (0.34)Restatement 960 (0.56) List 165 (0.28)Conjunction 1021 (0.48) EntRel 1424 (0.55)Table 5: Total number of different Expansion relationsand their coreference probability (in brackets)ferent types of Expansions.When the function of an expansion sentence is toprovide an alternative explanation or restate an ut-terance, the probability of entity overlap is very highand patterns similarily with entity relations (around60%).
Below is an example restatement sentence.[Ex.
7] {Researchers in Belgium}r said {they}r have de-veloped a genetic engineering technique for creating hybridplants for a number of crops, such as cotton, soybeans andrice.
{The scientists at Plant Genetic Systems N.V.}r isolateda gene that could lead to a generation of plants possessing ahigh-production trait.However, the two classes?Instantiation and Listlargely appear with very little entity overlap, 37%and 29% respectively.
An Instantiation relation isused to provide an example and hence has little over-lap with the previous sentence (Ex.
8 and 9).[Ex.
8] There may be a few cases where the law breaking iswell pinpointed and so completely non-invasive of the rights ofothers that it is difficult to criticize it.
The case of Rosa Parks,the black woman who refused to sit at the back of the bus, comesto mind as an illustration.[Ex.
9] The economy is showing signs of weakness, partic-ularly among manufacturers.
Exports, which played a key rolein fueling growth over the last two years, seem to have stalled.List relations, on the other hand, connect sen-tences where each of them elaborates on a commonproposition mentioned earlier in the discourse.
Hereis an example five sentence paragraph with list rela-tions but no entity repetition at all.[Ex.
10] Designs call for a L-shaped structure witha playground in the center.
[Implicit List] Therewill be recreation and movie rooms.
[Implicit List]Teens will be able to listen to music with head-sets.
[Implicit List] Study halls, complete with ref-erence materials will be available.
[Explicit List]And there will be a nurse?s station and rooms forchildren to meet with the social workers.In Ex.
10, as well as some others, a broad no-tion of entity coherence?bridging anaphora can beapplied.
Poesio et al (2004) also note this fact, butalso say that such instances are very difficult to an-notate reliably.
Our work is based on coreferenceannotations which can be marked with considerablyhigh inter-annotator agreement.4 ConclusionsThe recent release of corpora annotated for corefer-ence and discourse relations for the same texts havemade possible to empirically assess claims about theinteraction between two types of local coherence:relational and entity.
We find that about half of thepairs of adjacent sentences do not share any entitiesat all, and about 60% are related by weak discourserelations.
We test the hypothesis from prior workthat these two types of coherence are complemen-tary to each other and taken together explain mostlocal coherence.
We find that the two types of co-herence mechanisms are neither mutually exclusivenor do they explain all the data.
Future work in dis-course analysis will need to develop better under-standing of how the two types of coherence interact.ReferencesB.
Grosz, A. Joshi, and S. Weinstein.
1995.
Centering:a framework for modelling the local coherence of dis-course.
Computational Linguistics, 21(2):203?226.E.
Hovy, M. Marcus, M. Palmer, L. Ramshaw, andR.
Weischedel.
2006.
Ontonotes: the 90% solution.In Proceedings of NAACL-HLT, pages 57?60.N.
Karamanis.
2007.
Supplementing entity coherencewith local rhetorical relations for information order-ing.
Journal of Logic, Language and Information,16(4):445?464.A.
Knott, J. Oberlander, M. O?Donnell, and C. Mellish.2001.
Beyond elaboration: the interaction of rela-tions and focus in coherent text.
In Text Representa-tion: Linguistic and Psycholinguistic Aspects, chapter7, pages 181?196.W.C.
Mann and S.A. Thompson.
1988.
Rhetorical struc-ture theory: Towards a functional theory of text orga-nization.
Text, 8.M.
Poesio, R. Stevenson, B.
Di Eugenio, and J. Hitze-man.
2004.
Centering: A parametric theory and itsinstantiations.
Computational Linguistics, pages 309?363.R.
Prasad, N. Dinesh, A. Lee, E. Miltsakaki, L. Robaldo,A.
Joshi, and B. Webber.
2008.
The penn discoursetreebank 2.0.
In Proceedings of LREC?08.316
