Human Language Technologies: The 2010 Annual Conference of the North American Chapter of the ACL, pages 669?672,Los Angeles, California, June 2010. c?2010 Association for Computational LinguisticsAn Exploration of Off Topic ConversationWhitney L. CadeUniversity of Memphis365 Innovation DriveMemphis, TN  38152-3115wlcade@memphis.eduBlair A. LehmanUniversity of Memphis365 Innovation DriveMemphis, TN  38152-3115baleh-man@memphis.eduAndrew OlneyUniversity of Memphis365 Innovation DriveMemphis, TN  38152-3115aolney@memphis.eduAbstractIn a corpus of expert tutoring dialogue, con-versation that is considered to be ?off topic?
(non-pedagogical) according to a previouscoding scheme is explored for its value in tu-toring dynamics.
Using the Linguistic Inquiryand Word Count (LIWC) tool, phases of tutor-ing categorized as ?off topic?
were comparedwith interactive problem solving phases to ex-plore how the two differ on the emotional,psychological, and topical dimensions ana-lyzed by LIWC.
The results suggest that con-versation classified as ?off topic?
serves asmotivation and broad pedagogy in tutoring.These findings can be used to orient future re-search on ?off topic?
conversation, and help tomake sense of both previous coding schemesand noisy data sets.1 IntroductionMethods of investigating a large and noisy data setare of paramount importance in computational lin-guistics.
Quite often, qualitative coding schemesare used to capture snapshots of the data set, butthese may gloss over finer details or miss the largerpicture.
Add to that the messy and unpredictablenature of naturalistic data, and analysis becomeseven more complicated.
Therefore, a multi-methodapproach to understanding pre-existing codingschemes and orienting future in-depth analyses ofthose schemes proves to be a useful means of ex-ploring one?s data.Dialogue, particularly tutorial dialogue, is onearea where large, noisy data sets are common.Computer and human tutoring data have beenparsed, coded, and tested by a number of research-ers, and much effort has been put into makingsense of the variability in the task-oriented dialo-gue (e.g.
Chi, Roy, and Hausmann, 2008; Graesser,Person, and Magliano, 1995; Person, Lehman, andOzbun, 2007).
This work has all been in pursuit ofa deep understanding of the complex interactionbetween the human tutor and student, which, ifunderstood, could be used to boost the efficacy ofartificially intelligent computer tutors.
Expert hu-man tutoring has been found to increase learninggains by as much as 2 sigmas (Bloom, 1984),which makes understanding their methods and mo-tives the goal of any tutor research.The corpus under examination here was col-lected with the express purpose of understandinghow truly expert tutors manage a tutoring session,with an emphasis on creating a corpus of naturalis-tic dialogue data.
The corpus has been investigatedat two different grain sizes, a dialogue move leveland a sustained phases level.
Our study investi-gates in detail an ?other?
category that these cod-ing schemes, which emphasize the pedagogy of thetutors and the students reactions, classify as ?offtopic?
conversation.
Off topic conversation, byvirtue of its name, does not address the tutoringtask in which the tutor and student are engaged.However, given the prevalence of off topic conver-sation in the corpus, it is perhaps more likely thatthe function or utility of off topic conversation inexpert tutoring is indirect rather than non-existent,suggesting that the noisiest part of the tutoring di-alogue corpus, off topic conversation, should befurther explored.Because any topic not pertaining to the topic athand may be broached in off topic conversationand because the dialogue itself is full of false669starts, interruptions, and fragmented sentences, it isreasonable to explore off topic conversation usinga bag of words method that is applicable to a varie-ty of formal and informal texts.
One such methodis the Linguistic Inquiry and Word Count (LIWC)tool developed by Pennebaker et al, (2001), whichlooks for words that fall into specific, predeter-mined categories such as COGNITIVE MECHANISMSand POSITIVE EMOTIONS, then reports the percentof words in the document that fall into that catego-ry.
LIWC provides over 70 possible categories,and can help sketch a rough picture of the verbaldynamics of a text (Mairesse and Walker, 2006;Mihalcea and Strapparava, 2009).
Using a readilyavailable tool like LIWC allows an examination ofthe variability within off topic conversation basedon predetermined LIWC features.
We can alsocompare these results to a prominent pedagogicalcategory, such as scaffolding, that a current codingscheme particularly emphasizes, and examine thedifferences between the two.In this analysis, the task-orientation and utilityof ?off topic?
conversation are investigated bycomparing its outcome scores in certain dimen-sions of LIWC to a classic pedagogical and inter-active phase of tutoring: scaffolding (Rogoff andGardner, 1984).
Scaffolding, previously identifiedin a tutorial dialogue coding scheme (Cade, Copel-and, Person, and D?Mello, 2008), involves much ofthe conversational give-and-take expected in ca-sual off topic conversation, but is considered to bea very focused, on task phase of tutoring.
Knowinghow off topic conversation differs from scaffoldingmay help further exploration of this forgottenphase of tutoring.
Likewise, it would give us direc-tion in how to structure future coding schemes thatwould help bring clarity to the data set.2 MethodsIn this study, pedagogical and non-pedagogicalphases of expert tutoring sessions were comparedon linguistic dimensions to get at the diverse natureof off topic conversation within a naturalistic ex-pert tutoring session.The corpus under examination was collected ina previous study on expert human tutors.
There-fore, what follows is a brief synopsis of how thiscorpus was collected.Ten expert math and science tutors (4 male and6 female) were recruited through local tutoringagencies and schools.
Tutors were considered ?ex-pert?
when they met the following criteria: theyhad to be licensed to teach at the secondary level,have five or more years of tutoring experience, beemployed by a professional tutoring agency, andcome highly recommended by school personnelwho specialize in providing support to studentswho are struggling academically.
Student partici-pants were in grades 7 to 12, except for one whowas obtaining a GED.
All of the students were inacademic trouble and actively sought out tutoring.All sessions were unobtrusively videotaped atthe location decided upon by the tutor and student.The researcher turned on the camera and left theroom when the session began.
Each student parti-cipated in a maximum of two tutorial sessions,while each tutor participated in between two andeight tutoring sessions.
These 50 1-hour tutoringsessions were then transcribed.Two previously identified phases of tutoring (or?modes?
), Off Topic and Scaffolding, were com-pared to investigate their psychological, emotional,and topical differences.
To do this, instances ofeach mode were extracted from 30 sessions (allsessions that contained at least one Off Topic andone Scaffolding mode).
If a session had multipleoccurrences of a single mode, those modes werecompiled into a single document.
Documents werecapped at 1000 words each to prevent differencesin word count between the modes from affectingthe outcomes.
These documents were also sepa-rated by speaker (tutor or student); speakers maybe differentially motivated to broach certain topics,and so separating out these effects leads to morespecific identification of conversational dynamics.Each session?s Scaffolding and Off Topic docu-ment was then analyzed using LIWClite 7, whichcalculates the percentage of each document?swords that fall into specific, predefined categories.Though this version of LIWC offers over 70 lin-guistic categories, only 15 were of interest in de-termining the nature of off topic conversation:SOCIAL PROCESSES (ex: mate, talk, they), FAMILY(daughter, husband, aunt), FRIENDS (buddy, neigh-bor), AFFECTIVE PROCESSES (happy, cried),POSITIVE EMOTION (nice, sweet), NEGATIVEEMOTIONN (hurt, ugly, nasty) ANXIETY (worried,nervous), TENTATIVENESS (maybe, perhaps),CERTAINTY (always, never), WORK (majors, class),ACHIEVEMENT (earn, win), LEISURE (chat, movie),HOME (kitchen, family), NONFLUENCIES (umm,670hm), and FUTURE (will, gonna).These categories are the most relevant in illu-strating the emotional, topical, and psychologicalpicture of conversation in tutoring when comparedwith the more on-task behavior of problem solving.3 Discussion of ResultsLIWCCategoryT/SOffTopMScaffMWil-coxonp-valPairedt-testt-valCo-hen?sdSocialProcessT 11.15 7.75 <0.01 <0.01 1.37S 8.25 4.87 <0.01 <0.01 0.90PositiveEmotionT 5.41 4.83 0.27 0.29S 6.54 4.54 0.09 0.05 0.47Tentative T 3.10 1.91 <0.01 <0.01 1.08S 2.68 1.60 0.02 0.02 0.65Work T 2.90 1.10 <0.01 <0.01 0.86S 2.70 2.09 0.54 0.43Achieve T 1.02 0.95 0.67 0.76S 0.52 1.89 <0.01 <0.01 -0.92Leisure T 0.78 0.23 0.60 0.27S 0.50 0.15 0.05 0.07 0.50Home T 0.30 0.04 0.02 0.05 0.53S 0.24 0.01 0.03 0.17 0.37Nonfluen.
T 1.51 1.11 0.04 0.08 0.44S 3.89 4.14 0.17 0.82Future T 1.13 1.23 0.80 0.66S 0.74 1.35 0.01 0.04 -0.49Table 1.
LIWC Dimensions with Significant ResultsSince a normal distribution of scores cannot beassumed in this analysis, comparisons between OffTopic conversation and Scaffolding dialogue weremade by comparing the LIWC scores of the modesusing both Wilcoxon?s signed-rank test and apaired t-test, with similar outcomes.
Effect sizeswere also analyzed by calculating Cohen?s d. Table1 illustrates the significant results that emerged.
Intotal, each category investigated occurs more inOff Topic than in Scaffolding, with the exceptionof a student?s discussion of ACHIEVEMENT andFUTURE.From this analysis, an interesting pattern of re-sults emerges.
The Off Topic mode had previouslybeen characterized as a conversation that had noth-ing to do with the lesson at hand, which connotedthat it is fairly irrelevant.
However, Off Topic doesnot seem to be so wholly ?off topic.?
Tutors andstudents in the Off Topic mode talk about workmore often than they do in the Scaffolding mode,which is a mode where nothing but work is done.WORK words, according to the authors of LIWC,are mostly school-related.
Off Topic may be amode that allows the tutor to discuss test-takingskills, study strategies, and remind students whattasks need to be completed before the next tutoringsession.
For instance, one tutor divided up a studyguide into manageable portions that needed to becompleted every night so that the student would beprepared for an upcoming test.
Previous to now,these conversations have only been qualitativelyobserved, but this supports a more in-depth analy-sis of what type of work tutors are talking aboutwhen they are supposedly discussing non-pedagogical topics.This hypothesis is supported by the significantamount of conversation that takes place in OffTopic about the home; if FAMILY and FRIENDS(which may crop up in casual conversation aboutHOME-related topics) are not discussed significant-ly more in Off Topic, but HOME is, it may be thattutors are informing students of what sort of workneeds to be done at home, and strategies to getwork completed when on their own.This may also explain why both students andtutors use more TENTATIVE words in Off Topic.Although it would seem that students should bemore tentative and nonfluent when discussing dif-ficult problem solving, they may be tentative inOff Topic when the tutor makes suggestions aboutstudying and working.
These suggestions of thetutor?s may be framed using language like ?may-be?
and ?perhaps?
to make them more polite, andthe student echoes this language in return.
Thus,tentativeness may not come from uncertainty, butfrom suggestions couched in polite language.It also appears that Off Topic conversation maynot serve as a ?pep talk?
time; although it doescontain more POSITIVE EMOTION words than Scaf-folding, it does not expound upon the student?sachievements.
ACHIEVEMENT words are morecommon in Scaffolding, where students are receiv-ing praise for their problem solving efforts.
OffTopic conversation may seek to motivate the stu-dent in more subtle ways.
By using more wordsthat refer to SOCIAL PROCESSES (such as the thirdperson plural and words like ?talked?
), the tutorand student may be building rapport with oneanother.
This rapport may become important lateron when the tutor gives the student blatantly nega-tive feedback (Person et al, 2007), which can bemotivationally damaging.
Rapport may protectagainst flagging motivation in the student when thetutor uses ?us?
language and connects with the stu-dent in a more casual conversation.6714 Conclusions and Future WorkOur goal in this work was to use a simple linguisticanalysis tool to uncover the hidden depths of anexisting dialogue coding scheme.
The use of suchtools can paint a rich picture of the psychological,emotional, and topical content of a corpus, and canbe used in two ways: first, it may help determine ifa deeper inquiry into a hypothesis is warranted,and second, it can immediately orient future re-search towards key issues in a corpus without theless rigorous speculation and qualitative observa-tions.
The nature of broader coding schemes cancome to be understood in a multifaceted mannerusing linguistic analysis, which may also informfuture work.Here, we have observed that off topic conversa-tion in an expert tutoring dialogue corpus operatesin a multidimensional way that is not irrelevantwhen studying the dynamics of an expert tutoringsession.
By using the LIWC tool developed byPennebaker et al (2001), themes concerning inter-personal rapport and global pedagogy emerge.
Thepurpose of ?off topic?
conversation in tutoring maytherefore be linked more to building a relationshipbetween the tutor and the student, which is neces-sary for the trials of problem solving, and for thedispensation of ?study strategies?
that are moreglobally task-oriented, but are, nonetheless, impor-tant in understanding the pedagogical strategies ofexpert tutors.
Off topic conversation was also hy-pothesized to function similarly in other tutorialwork (Ros?, Kumar, Aleven, Robinson, and Wu,2006).One way of adding validity to these claimswould be to investigate the topics broached in OffTopic through a topics model.
In this way, recur-ring themes in off topic conversation can be re-vealed, and these themes can be aligned with theLIWC findings to see if a pattern emerges.
Fromthere, a new coding scheme may be devised to cap-ture the multiple types of off topic conversation,which, for now, seem to be divided between inter-personal, rapport building and global pedagogy.This method of exploring a corpus has proven tobe a useful approach when investigating possibleavenues of improvement to coding schemes.AcknowledgementsThe research reported here was supported by theInstitute of Education Sciences, U.S. Departmentof Education, through Grant R305A080594 to theUniversity of Memphis.
The opinions expressedare those of the authors and do not represent viewsof the Institute or the U.S. Department of Educa-tion.ReferencesBenjamin Bloom.
1984.
The 2 sigma problem: Thesearch for methods of group instruction as effectiveas one-to-one tutoring.
Educational Researcher,13:4-16.Whitney Cade, Jessica Copeland, Natalie Person, andSidney D?Mello.
2008.
Dialogue modes in expert tu-toring.
Proceedings of the 9th International Confe-rence on Intelligent Tutoring Systems, 470-479.Springer-Verlag, Berlin, Germany.Michelene Chi, Marguerite Roy, and Robert Hausmann.2008.
Observing tutorial dialogues collaboratively:Insights about human tutoring effectiveness from vi-carious learning.
Cognitive Science, 32(2):301-341.Art Graesser, Natalie Person, and Joseph Magliano.1995.
Collaborative dialogue patterns in naturalisticone-on-one tutoring.
Applied Cognitive Psychology,9:359-387.Fran?ois Mairesse and Marilyn Walker.
2006.
Automat-ic Recognition of Personality in Conversation.
InProceedings of the Human Language TechnologyConference of the North American Chapter of theACL, 85?88.
Association for Computational Linguis-tics, New York.Rada Mihalcea and Carlo Strapparava.
2009.
The LieDetector: Explorations in the Automatic Recognitionof Deceptive Language.
In Proceedings of the ACL-IJCNLP 2009 Conference Short Papers, 309-312.Association for Computational Linguistics, Suntec,Singapore.James Pennebaker, Martha Francis, and Roger Booth.2001.
Linguistic Inquiry and Word Count (LIWC):LIWC2001.
Lawrence Erlbaum Associates, Mahwah,NJ.Natalie Person, Blair Lehman, and Rachel Ozbun.
2007.Pedagogical and motivational dialogue moves usedby expert tutors.
Presented at the 17th Annual Meet-ing of the Society for Text and Discourse.
Glasgow,Scotland.Barbara Rogoff and William Gardner.
1984.
Adultguidance of cognitive development.
Everyday cogni-tion: Its development in social context, 95-116.
Har-vard University Press, Cambridge, MA.Carolyn Ros?, Rohit Kumar, Vincent Aleven, AllenRobinson, & Chih Wu.
2006.
CycleTalk: Data dri-ven design of support for simulation based learning.International Journal of Artificial Intelligence inEducation, 16:195-223.672
