Human Language Technologies: The 2010 Annual Conference of the North American Chapter of the ACL, pages 705?708,Los Angeles, California, June 2010. c?2010 Association for Computational LinguisticsIs Arabic Part of Speech Tagging Feasible Without Word Segmentation?Emad Mohamed, Sandra Ku?blerIndiana UniversityDepartment of LinguisticsMemorial Hall 322Bloomington, IN 47405USA{emohamed,skuebler}@indiana.eduAbstractIn this paper, we compare two novel methodsfor part of speech tagging of Arabic withoutthe use of gold standard word segmentationbut with the full POS tagset of the Penn Ara-bic Treebank.
The first approach uses com-plex tags without any word segmentation, thesecond approach is segmention-based, usinga machine learning segmenter.
Surprisingly,word-based POS tagging yields the best re-sults, with a word accuracy of 94.74%.1 IntroductionArabic is a morphologically rich language, inwhich a word carries not only inflections butalso clitics, such as pronouns, conjunctions, andprepositions.
This morphological complexity alsohas consequences for the part-of-speech (POS)annotation of Arabic: Since words can be com-plex, POS tags refer to segments rather than towhole words.
Thus, the word wsyrfEwnhA(in Buckwalter transliteration; engl.
: and theywill raise it) is assigned the following POS tag:[CONJ+FUTURE PARTICLE+IMPERFECT VERB PREFIX+IMPERFECT VERB+IMPERFECT VERB SUFFIX MAS-CULINE PLURAL 3RD PERSON+OBJECT PRONOUNFEMININE SINGULAR] in the Penn Arabic Treebank(ATB) (Bies and Maamouri, 2003); the boundariesbetween segments are depicted by + signs.
Auto-matic approaches to POS tagging either must assignsuch complex tags from a large tagset to completewords, or they must segment the word first andthen assign POS tags to the segments.
Previousapproaches (Diab et al, 2004; Habash and Rambow,2005; van den Bosch et al, 2007; AlGahtani et al,2009) chose the segmentation approach but concen-trated on POS tagging by using the segmentationprovided by the ATB.
Additionally, Diab et al andHabash and Rambow used a reduced tagset.
Diab etal.
and Habash and Rambow used Support VectorMachines, the former with a standard windowingapproach, the latter performing a full morphologicalanalysis before POS tagging.
Van den Bosch etal., whose approach is the most similar to ours,used memory-based learning with the full ATBtagset.
They report a POS tagging accuracy of91.5% (93.3% on known words, 66.4% on unknownwords).
However, they also evaluated on wordsas defined in the ATB, which differs from writtenArabic in the treatment of affixes with syntacticfunctions (see section 2 for details).
AlGahtani etal.
used transformation-based learning combinedwith a morphological analysis for unknown wordsand words containing clitics.
They reached a POStagging accuracy of 96.9% on ATB1.
Surprisingly,their results are lower for the experiment using thewhole ATB (96.1%).In this paper, we present two methods for Ara-bic POS tagging that do not require gold stan-dard segmentation but can rather be used for natu-rally occurring Arabic.
We investigate two differ-ent approaches: (1) Assigning complete POS tagsto whole words, without any segmentation, and (2)a segmentation-based approach, for which we de-veloped a machine learning based segmenter.
Inthis approach, the words are first passed to thesegmenter, then to the POS tagger.
The first ap-proach is surprisingly successful given the complex-705ity of the task, reaching an accuracy on the wordlevel of 94.74%, as compared to 93.47% for thesegmentation-based approach.
Thus, the result forthe whole word approach is very close to the re-sult obtained by using gold standard segmentation(94.91%).
However, a more detailed analysis showsthat this good performance of the word-based ap-proach is due to its performance on known wordswhile the few unknown words are more often mis-classified: we reach an accuracy of 96.61% onknown words but only 74.64% on unknown words.2 Data, Methods, and EvaluationLike the previous approaches, we base our experi-ments on the ATB, specifically on the after-treebankPOS files, for extracting our training and test sets.More specifically, we use two sections of the ATB(P1V3 and P3V1) since those two sets do not containduplicate sentences.
This data set contains approxi-mately 500,000 words.
In order to be as representa-tive of real-world Arabic, we use the non-vocalizedversion of the treebank.
Since previous approaches,to our knowledge, used different data sets, our re-sults are not directly comparable.For both segmentation and POS tagging, we mod-ified the ATB representation of words in order to ob-tain the text, as it would occur in newscasts.
TheATB treats inflectional affixes, including the defi-nite article Al, as part of a word but splits off thoseaffixes that serve a syntactic function into separatewords.
In order to obtain text as it occurs in news-casts, we re-attached all conjunctions, prepositions,pronouns, and any elements that constitute parts ofthe word as an orthographic unit (with the excep-tion of punctuation) to the word.
The word ltxbrh(engl.
: in order to tell him), for example, is repre-sented as three words in the ATB, l, txbr, andh, but is treated as one single unit in our experi-ment.
Our second modification concerns the nullelement in Arabic verbs.
Since Arabic is pro-drop,the ATB annotation includes a null element in placeof the omitted subject plus the POS tag it wouldreceive.
Since this information is not available innaturally occurring text, we delete the null elementand its tag.
For example, {i$otaraY+(null)and its tag PV+PVSUFF SUBJ: 3MS would occuras {i$otaraY with the tag PV in our representa-tion (we additionally remove the short vowels).We perform 5-fold cross validation and use thesame data split for all three types of experiments: (1)POS tagging using gold standard segmentation takenfrom the ATB, (2) POS tagging using a segmenter,and (3) POS tagging whole words with complexPOS tags.
The first experiment serves as the upperbound and as a comparison to previous approaches.The second experiment uses an automatic segmenteras a pre-processing component to the POS tagger.This means that the accuracy of the segmenter isalso the upper limit of the POS tagger since errorsin segmentation inevitably lead to errors in POS tag-ging.
The last experiment uses full words and com-plex POS tags.
The purpose of this experiment isto determine whether it is possible to tag completewords without segmentation.The segmenter and the two POS taggers usememory-based learning.
For segmentation, we useTiMBL (Daelemans and van den Bosch, 2005); forPOS tagging MBT, a memory-based tagger (Daele-mans et al, 1996).
Memory-based learning is a lazylearning paradigm that does not abstract over thetraining data.
During classification, the k nearestneighbors to a new example are retrieved from thetraining data, and the class that was assigned to themajority of the neighbors is assigned to the new ex-ample.
MBT uses TiMBL as classifier; it offers thepossibility to use words from both sides of the focusword as well as previous tagging decisions and am-bitags as features.
An ambitag is a combination ofall POS tags of the ambiguity class of the word.Word segmentation is defined as a per-letter clas-sification task: If a character in the word constitutesthe end of a segment, its class is ?+?, otherwise ?-?.We use a sliding window approach with 5 charactersbefore and 5 characters after the focus character, theprevious decisions of the classifier, and the POS tagof the focus word assigned by the whole word tag-ger (cf.
below) as features.
The best results wereobtained for all experiments with the IB1 algorithmwith similarity computed as weighted overlap, rel-evance weights computed with gain ratio, and thenumber of k nearest neighbors equal to 1.For POS tagging, we use the full tagset, with in-formation about every segment in the word, ratherthan the reduced tagset (RTS) used by Diab et aland Habash and Rambow, since the RTS assumes706Gold Standard Segmentation Segmentation-Based Tagging Whole WordsSAR WAR SAR WAR WAR96.72% 94.91% 94.70% 93.47% 94.74%Table 1: POS tagging results.a segmentation of words in which syntactically rel-evant affixes are split from the stem.
The wordw+y+bHv+wn+hA, for example, in RTS is split into3 separate tokens, w, ybHvwn, hA.
Then, each ofthese tokens is assigned one POS tag, Conjunctionfor w, Imperfective Verb for ybHvwn, and Pronounfor hA.
The split into tokens makes a preprocessingstep necessary, and it also affects evaluation sincea word-based evaluation is based on one word, theRTS evaluation on 3 tokens for the above example.For all the POS tagging experiments, we useMBT.
The best results were obtained with the Modi-fied Value Difference Metric as a distance metric andwith k = 25.
For known words, we use the IGTreealgorithm and 2 words to the left, their POS tags, thefocus word and its ambitag, 1 right context word andits ambitag as features.
For unknown words, we useIB1 as algorithm and the unknown word itself, itsfirst 5 and last 3 characters, 1 left context word andits POS tag, and 1 right context word and its ambitagtag as features.3 Experimental Results and Discussion3.1 Word SegmentationThe memory-based word segmentation performsvery reliably with a word accuracy of 98.23%.
Thisalso means that when the segmentation module isused as a pre-processing step for POS tagging, theaccuracy of the tagger will have this accuracy as itsupper bound.
While there are cases where wrongsegmentation results in the same number of seg-ments, all of these words were assigned the wrongPOS tags in our data.
In an error analysis, we foundthat words of specific POS are more difficult to seg-ment than others.
Proper nouns constitute 33.87%of all segmentation errors, possibly due to the factthat many of these are either foreign names that re-semble Arabic words (e.g.
Knt, which is ambigu-ous between the English name Kent, and the Ara-bic verb I was), or they are ordinary nouns used asproper nouns but with a different segmentation (e.g.AlHyAp, engl.
: the life).
The POS tag with thesecond highest error rate was the noun class with30.67%.3.2 Part of Speech TaggingTable 1 shows the results of the three POS taggingexperiments described above.
For the segmentation-based experiments, we report per-segment (SAR)and per-word (WAR) accuracy.
As expected, POStagging using gold standard segments gives the bestresults: 94.91% WAR.
These results are approxi-mately 3 percent points higher than those reportedby van den Bosch et al (2007).
Although the resultsare not absolutely comparable because of the dif-ferent data sets, this experiment shows that our ap-proach is competitive.
The next experiments investi-gate the two possibilities to perform POS tagging onnaturally occurring Arabic, i.e.
when gold segmen-tation is not available.
The results of these experi-ments show that POS tagging based on whole wordsgives higher results (WAR: 94.74%) than taggingbased on automatic segmentation (WAR: 93.47%).This result is surprising given that tagging wholewords is more difficult than assigning tags to seg-ments, as there are 993 complex tags (22.70% ofwhich occur only once in the training set), versus139 segment tags.
A detailed error analysis of a pre-vious but similar experiment can be found in Mo-hamed and Ku?bler (2010).We assume that these results are an artifact of theATB since it is based exclusively on newswire texts.This means that there is only a limited vocabulary,as shown by the very low rate of unknown words:across the five folds, we calculated an average of8.55% unknown words.
In order to test our hypoth-esis that unknown words are tagged more reliablywith a segment-based approach, we performed ananalysis on known and unknown words separately.The results of this analysis are shown in Table 2.This analysis shows that for all experiments, theunknown words are tagged with a considerably707Gold Standard Segmentation Segmentation-Based Tagging Whole WordsKnown words 95.90% 95.57% 96.61%Unknown words 84.25% 71.06% 74.64%Table 2: POS results for known and unknown words.lower accuracy.
However, the loss of performanceis more pronounced in the approaches without goldsegmentation.
It is also evident that tagging wholewords reaches a higher accuracy than segment-basedtagging for both known words and unknown words.From these results, we can conclude that while seg-mentation makes properties of the words available,it is not required for POS tagging.
We also inves-tigated the poor performance of the segmentation-based tagger.
A closer look at the results for un-known words in segmentation-based tagging showsthat 59.68% of the tagging errors are direct resultsfrom incorrect segmentation decisions.
In compari-son, for known words, only 6.24% of the incorrectlytagged words are also ill-segmented.
This meansthat even though the quality of the segmenter is veryhigh, the errors still harm the POS tagging step.To make our results more comparable to those byHabash and Rambow (2005), we converted the testset with the POS tags from the whole word taggerto their tokenization and to a reduced tagset of 15tags.
In this setting, we reach a tokenization ac-curacy of 99.36% and a POS tagging accuracy of96.41%.
This is very close to the results by Habashand Rambow so that we conclude that high accu-racy POS tagging for Arabic is possible without afull morphological analysis.4 Conclusions and Future WorkWe have presented a method for POS tagging forArabic that does not assume gold segmentation,which would be unrealistic for naturally occurringArabic.
The approach we developed is competi-tive although it uses the full POS tagset, withoutany previous morphological analysis.
The resultsof our experiments suggest that segmentation is notrequired for POS tagging.
On the contrary, usingwhole words as basis for POS tagging yields higheraccuracy, thus rendering a full morphological anal-ysis or segmentation unnecessary.
We reached thebest results in tagging whole words both for knownwords and unknown words.
These results were onlymarginally worse that the results obtained by the ex-periment based on gold segmentation.The weakness of the segmentation-based ap-proach is its low accuracy on unknown words.
In thefuture, we will investigate knowledge-richer meth-ods for segmentation.
In particular, we will inves-tigate whether an automatic vocalization step previ-ous to segmentation will improve POS tagging ac-curacy for unknown words.ReferencesShahib AlGahtani, William Black, and John Mc-Naught.
2009.
Arabic part-of-speech-tagging usingtransformation-based learning.
In Proceeedings of the2nd International Conference on Arabic Language Re-sources and Tools, Cairo, Egypt.Ann Bies and Mohamed Maamouri.
2003.
Penn ArabicTreebank guidelines.
Technical report, LDC, Univer-sity of Pennsylvania.Walter Daelemans and Antal van den Bosch.
2005.Memory Based Language Processing.
CambridgeUniversity Press.Walter Daelemans, Jakub Zavrel, Peter Berck, and StevenGillis.
1996.
MBT: A memory-based part of speechtagger-generator.
In Eva Ejerhed and Ido Dagan, ed-itors, Proceedings of the 4th Workshop on Very LargeCorpora, pages 14?27, Copenhagen, Denmark.Mona Diab, Kadri Hacioglu, and Daniel Jurafsky.
2004.Automatic tagging of Arabic text: From raw text tobase phrase chunks.
In Proceedings of HLT-NAACL,Boston, MA.Nizar Habash and Owen Rambow.
2005.
Arabic tok-enization, part-of-speech tagging and morphologicaldisambiguation in one fell swoop.
In Proceedings ofACL-2005, pages 573?580, Ann Arbor, MI.Emad Mohamed and Sandra Ku?bler.
2010.
Arabic partof speech tagging.
In Proceedings of LREC, Valetta,Malta.Antal van den Bosch, Erwin Marsi, and Abdelhadi Soudi.2007.
Memory-based morphological analysis andpart-of-speech tagging of Arabic.
In Abdelhadi Soudi,Antal van den Bosch, and Gu?nter Neumann, editors,Arabic Computational Morphology.
Springer.708
