Proceedings of the NAACL HLT 2010 Student Research Workshop, pages 29?33,Los Angeles, California, June 2010. c?2010 Association for Computational LinguisticsDistinguishing Use and Mention in Natural LanguageShomir WilsonComputer ScienceUniversity of MarylandCollege Park, MD 20742, USAshomir@umd.eduAbstractWhen humans communicate via natural lan-guage, they frequently make use of metalan-guage to clarify what they mean and promotea felicitous exchange of ideas.
One key aspectof metalanguage is the mention of words andphrases, as distinguished from their use.
Thispaper presents ongoing work on identifyingand categorizing instances of language-mention, with the goal of building a systemcapable of automatic recognition of the phe-nomenon.
A definition of language-mentionand a corpus of instances gathered from Wiki-pedia are discussed, and the future direction ofthe project is described.1 IntroductionCostello: Well then who's on first?Abbott: Yes.Costello: I mean the fellow's name.Abbott: Who.Costello: The guy on first.Abbott: Who.In Abbott and Costello?s famous routine?Who?s on First?
?, Costello asks Abbott for thenames of the players on a baseball team.
In theabove excerpt1, Abbott tries unsuccessfully to ex-plain that the name of the first baseman is Who, butCostello interprets this as another question instead1Quoted from http://www.phoenix5.org/humor/WhoOnFirst.html.of a response to his own.
If Abbott had been moreexplicit and less terse (by responding with ?Thefellow?s name is the word ?Who?
?, for instance),he would have avoided the ambiguity in his an-swers and might have succeeded in conveying toCostello the name of the first baseman.
Instead,this misunderstanding is repeated throughout theroutine with comic results, as the two become in-creasingly agitated by their breakdown in commu-nication.As Abbott and Costello unwittingly demon-strated, we sometimes must refer to the languagethat we speak and write in order to understand lan-guage itself.
Metalanguage is our facility for doingthis, and its interpretation often implicitly relies onthe use-mention distinction?that is, simply, thedistinction between using elements of languageand mentioning them.
In both written and spokencommunication, the mention of letters, sounds,words, phrases, or entire sentences (termed lan-guage-mention in this paper for brevity) is essen-tial for indicating titles, explaining meaning,introducing new words, attributing exact utterancesto others, and other common functions of metalan-guage (Saka 2005).
There is evidence that humanconversation makes frequent use of the use-mention distinction, and that we would be severelyhandicapped without it (Perlis et al, 1998).
More-over, this distinction has close ties to the appear-ance-reality distinction in cognitive science (Miller1993).It is surprising, then, that the use-mention dis-tinction has thus far received little attention incomputational linguistics.
The need for greaterstudy is unmistakable, as human audiences gener-29ally navigate through this linguistic phenomenonwith a natural ease that computers do not possess.The complexity behind this natural ease is apparentin our ability to understand simple sentences suchas ?Sky is spelled S K Y?
and ?The letters S, K,and Y make the word sky?, which mean essentiallythe same thing but are structured and worded verydifferently.
To gain the benefits of understandingthe use-mention distinction, natural languageprocessing systems must detect the subtle cues thatsignal this phenomenon.This paper presents some preliminary resultsfrom a project on characterizing and identifyinginstances of language-mention in the English lan-guage.
The use-mention distinction is first ex-plained in greater detail, and a working definitionis proposed for the phenomenon of language-mention.
A corpus of instances of language-mention from Wikipedia is then introduced, withanalysis of the categories in which the phenome-non appears to occur.
The hypothesis of this con-tinuing project is that lexical and syntactic cueswill be sufficient to automatically identify at least alarge subset of instances of mentioned language.2 The Use-Mention DistinctionThe use-mention distinction, as previously stated,is the distinction between using linguistic entities(such as letters, sounds, words, phrases, or entiresentences) and mentioning them.
Since this expla-nation is slightly opaque at best and possibly circu-lar, some examples and a proposal for a definitionare appropriate.
Consider the following sentences:(1) The cat is on the mat.
(2) The word ?cat?
is spelled with three letters.In (1), the reader?s attention to meaning does notfocus on the words themselves, but instead uponthe presumed cat on the mat.
In (2), the reader un-derstands that the word cat?a string of three let-ters, as opposed to any particular cat or an abstractidea of a cat?is in the focus of the sentence.
Quo-tation marks around cat in (2) are a convention tofurther reinforce that the word is being mentioned,and in some contexts (such as this sentence) italicsmay serve the same purpose.The other linguistic entities listed above can alsobe mentioned, and the reader may easily conjureappropriate examples.
Of particular note is quota-tion, a form of language-mention in which lan-guage from another source is reproduced as part ofa statement, as in (3) below:(3) Eric said, ?We should meet for lunch.
?In (3), the phrase between quote marks is men-tioned as what Eric has said.
However, the readeris likely to treat the quoted text in (3) as a stringwith semantic depth, indicating that the use half ofthe use-mention distinction is present as well.
Ex-amples such as this illustrate that use and mentionare not mutually exclusive (Maier 2007).If writers always and consistently used cuessuch as quotation marks and italics, and if speakersfollowed a convention for delimiting mentionedutterances2, recognizing language-mention wouldbe an easier task.
However, it frequently falls uponthe intuition of the audience to determine when,where, and how it occurs (Anderson et al 2002).Sentences (2) and (3) above, if typed less formally(sans quotation marks) or transcribed from speech,would still be easily understood by a human read-er.
Moreover, cues such as italics and quotationmarks are also used for other purposes, such asdistancing (?scare quotes?)
and emphasis, meaningthat they are uncertain indicators of language-mention.
It seems that subtler cues are responsiblefor our ability to distinguish use and mention.In spite of the ubiquity of the phrase use-mention distinction, it is difficult to find an explicitdefinition for either the distinction itself or its twohalves.
The effort here will be to define language-mention, since this will aid in identifying whereand how it occurs.
What follows is a working defi-nition, in the sense that it is a ?rough draft?
; sug-gestions for improvement are invited.
For themoment, it restricts the scope of this work to sen-tential language-mention, where the mentionedlinguistic entity is referred to inside of the samesentence that it occurs.
(An example of a sentencethat fails this additional requirement is: ?Disregardthe last thing I said.?)
This restriction is necessaryto reduce the complexity of the identification andlabeling problems, and it will be assumed for therest of the paper.Definition: For T a token or a set of tokens in asentence, if T refers to a property of the token T orthe type of T, then T is an instance of language-mention.2One might observe that spoken language sometimes containsnonverbal cues for language-mention.
While worthy of study,these cues fall beyond the scope of this paper, which will fo-cus on written or transcribed language.30Here, a token can be any one of the linguistic enti-ties listed at the beginning of this section?letters,sounds, words, phrases, or entire sentences.
Aproperty might be its spelling, pronunciation, orig-inal source (in the case of quotation), meaning (fora variety of interpretations of that term), or anotheraspect for which language is shown or demonstrat-ed3.
The type of T is relevant in some instances oflanguage-mention (such as in (2)) and the tokenitself is relevant in others (including unusual casessuch as ?The is the first word in this sentence?
).3 A Language-Mention CorpusThe second task of this project has been to create acorpus of sentences that contain instances of lan-guage-mention.
The corpus will be valuable tomove beyond laboratory examples and to beginmining for patterns in syntax and vocabulary thatpredict the occurrence of the phenomenon.Wikipedia was chosen as a source of text forseveral reasons.
Its text is freely available and cov-ers a wide variety of subjects.
Articles are writtento be informative, which suggests that new namesand terms are introduced frequently?a commonfunction of language-mention.
Contributors tend tohighlight language-mention with italicization, boldtext, or quotation marks.
(This convention is men-tioned in the Wikipedia Manual of Style, though itis unclear whether most contributors read it thereor simply follow it out of habit.)
While language-mention can certainly occur outside of those stylis-tic cues, the decision was made to concentrate onsentences that contained them, since this greatlyaccelerated the annotation process.The annotation effort focused on the markuptext of 1000 randomly chosen articles from EnglishWikipedia.
Except for delimiters for bold and italictext, most of the markup was removed, and theremaining text was segmented into sentences usingNLTK?s implementation of the Punkt sentencetokenizer (Kiss and Strunk, 2006).
The sentencesthen were filtered for only those that containedbold text, italic text, or text between single ordouble quotation marks, yielding a set of 1339 sen-tences that contained one or more of them.Hand annotation required approximately threeperson-hours, with that time heavily skewed to-ward approximately the first third of the sentences,3These properties are based upon the ostentions of languagein Paul Saka?s treatment of the use-mention distinction (1998).as the set of categories for language-mention wasalso developed during this labeling process.
Cate-gories were formed with an informal "diagnostictest" of substitution of the category's theme (e.g.,"this proper name", "this translation", "this sym-bol", "this quotation") in the place of the candidatetoken or tokens.
Only text highlighted by one ofthe cues mentioned above was considered for labe-ling.
Although only one researcher participated inthe annotation, at the time of writing this paper aneffort was in progress to build a much larger cor-pus using multiple annotators via Amazon?s Me-chanical Turk service.
This service has shownpromise in other natural language annotation tasks(Snow et al, 2008).Out of the 1339 sentences inspected by hand,171 contained at least one instance of language-mention.
Many of those sentences contained sever-al instances.
Table 1 below lists the categories ob-served and the frequencies of each one, and Table2 provides examples from each category.Language-Mention Category FrequencyProper name (PN)Translation or Transliteration (TR)Attributed Language (AT)Words/Phrases as Themselves (WD)Symbols/Nonliteral Marks (SY)Phonetic/Sound (PH)Spelling (SP)Abbreviation (AB)1196147468221Table 1: Frequencies of the different categories of lan-guage-mention found in the corpus.Cat.
ExamplePN In 2005, Ashley Page created another shortpiece on Scottish Ballet, a strikingly mod-ern piece called ''The Pump Room'', set topulsating music by Aphex Twin.TR The Latin title translates as ''a method forfinding curved lines enjoying properties ofmaximum or minimum, or solution of iso-perimetric problems in the broadest ac-cepted sense''.AT "It is still fresh in my memory that I read achess book of Karpov by chance in 1985which I liked very much," the 21-year-oldsaid.WD '''Submerged forest''' is a term used to de-scribe the remains of trees (especially tree31stumps) which have been submerged bymarine transgression, i.e.
sea level rise.SY He also introduced the modern notationfor the trigonometric functions, the letter''e'' for the base of the natural logarithm(now also known as Euler's number) ?PH The call of this species is a high pitched''ke-ke-ke'' like American Kestrel.SP '''James Breckenridge Speed''' (middlename sometimes spelled '''Breckinridge''')(1844-1912) was a successful businessmanin Louisville, Kentucky and an importantphilanthropist.AB ?
''Moskovskiy gosudarstvennyy univer-sitet putej soobshcheniya'', often abbre-viated '''MIIT''' for '''Moscow Institute ofTransport Engineers''' ?Table 2: Examples from the corpus of each category oflanguage-mention.
Triple quote marks indicate bold textin the original markup.
The longer sentences for SY andAB have been truncated.
The relevant instance of lan-guage-mention in each example appears underlined.As shown, proper names were by far the mostcommon category, with almost twice as many in-stances as the next most frequent category.
Thisfollows intuition, since Wikipedia articles oftendescribe entities identified by proper names.
Incontrast, there were just a few instances of pronun-ciation (phonetic/sound) or spelling.
Either the pre-filtering of sentences eliminated many instances ofthese before human annotation could find them, orWikipedia is not a fertile source for them.Of particular note are the 46 instances of wordsor phrases as themselves, since these are examplesof language being either introduced or clarified forthe reader.
While there exists a body of work onnamed entity recognition (Nadeau and Sekine,2007), very little exists on identifying when wordsserve a very similar function, essentially as rigiddesignators for their types.
One of the future goalsof this project will be to fill that gap.4 Related WorkA similar corpus-building project was undertakenby Anderson, et.
al (2004) to study the occurrenceof metalanguage in human dialogue.
In addition tothe difference in focus (metalanguage broadly ver-sus language-mention in particular), their projectconcentrated on the classification of utterancesfrom casual speech, as opposed to the structure ofwell-formed sentences.
The automatic recognitionof language-mention will require a specific focuson the phenomenon, since it differs from otherforms of metalanguage in its unusual syntacticstructure (as shown in the next section).In applications, the use-mention distinction hasalso received some treatment within dialog man-agement and commonsense reasoning, as imple-mented in the ALFRED system (Josyula et al,2003).
However, its ability to recognize language-mention is limited to the task of learning newwords from a limited set of sentence structures.The ongoing project described in this paper insteadhas the goal of recognizing and eventually inter-preting language-mention in a wide variety of nat-ural cases.5 Future WorkThe next step in this project will be to enlarge thelanguage-mention corpus, using more data fromWikipedia and other promising sources.
Languagelearning materials have also been considered forthis purpose, as they necessarily contain a highfrequency of metalanguage.
The presence of stylis-tic cues in the text will be useful but perhaps notessential, as it is anticipated that bootstrapping theannotation process will become possible onceenough indicators in sentence structure and voca-bulary have been identified.
This identification willbe accomplished through a combination of eyebal-ling of patterns in parse trees and automatedsearching through the corpus using a tool such asTregex (Levy and Andrew, 2006).One eventual goal of this project is to detectlanguage-mention without the presence of stylisticcues, with the intent of correcting egregious errorscommon in syntactic parsing of the phenomenon.Statistically-trained parsers have achieved greatlevels of accuracy at the macro level of examininglarge quantities of text, but this comes at a cost.Such accuracy tends not to include the phenome-non of language-mention, which often has an un-usual structure.
Consider the following twosentences paired with the resulting output from theStanford Parser (Klein and Manning 2003):(4a) Car is spelled c a r32(4b) (ROOT (S (NP (NNP Car)) (VP (VBZ is)(VP (VBN spelled) (S (NP (SYM c)) (NP (DTa) (NN r)))))))(5a) The pronunciation of potato is pough tayhtoe(5b) (ROOT (S (NP (NP (DT The) (NN pro-nunciation)) (PP (IN of) (NP (NN potato))))(VP (VBZ is) (NP (JJ pough) (NN tayh) (NNtoe)))))Both of these sentences are easily interpretableby a human audience, but the parser garbles theirstructure where language-mention occurs.
Suchunusual structure and vocabulary are likely not tolend well to the methods used to train such a pars-er.
Because of this, the feasibility of a ?hybrid?system is being investigated, which would com-bine an existing high-performance parser with arule-based system to modify and correct its outputwhere appropriate.Preliminary work on a language-mention parserhas shown the feasibility of this hybrid approach.A trial system has been built that uses parse treesproduced by the Stanford Parser as input to fiverules that detect common syntactic patterns indicat-ing the phenomenon occurs in a sentence.
In (4a),for instance, the presence of the verb spell and thesequence of two or more single-letter words indi-cates that the sequence is likely an instance of lan-guage-mention and falls into the category ofspelling.
Although language-mention exhibits sub-stantial variety in its forms (and certainly will notbe conquered by the five rules in the trial system),this approach should be able to take advantage ofadditional patterns mined from the corpus of thephenomenon currently being created.
It is hy-pothesized that such a parser, using lexical andsyntactic cues, will be sufficient to identify andcategorize a large percentage of instances of lan-guage-mention in the absence of any stylistic cues.ReferencesAnderson, Michael L., Andrew Fister, Bryant Lee, andDanny Wang.
2004.
On the frequency and types ofmeta-language in conversation: a preliminary report.Paper presented at the 14th Annual Conference of theSociety for Text and Discourse.Anderson, Michael L., Yoshi Okamoto, Darsana Josyu-la, and Don Perlis.
2002.
The use-mention distinctionand its importance to HCI.
In Proceedings of theSixth Workshop on the Semantics and Pragmatics ofDialog.Josyula, Darsana, Mike Anderson, and Don Perlis.2003.
Towards domain-independent, task-oriented,conversational adequacy.
In Proceedings of IJCAI-2003 Intelligent Systems Demonstrations.Kiss, Tibor and Jan Strunk.
2006.
Unsupervised multi-lingual sentence boundary detection.
ComputationalLinguistics, 32(4): 485-525.Klein, Dan and Christopher Manning.
2003.
AccurateUnlexicalized Parsing.
In Proceedings of the 41stMeeting of the Association for Computational Lin-guistics.Levy, Roger and Galen Andrew.
2006.
Tregex andTsurgeon: tools for querying and manipulating treedata structures.
In Proceedings of the 8th Interna-tional Conference on Knowledge-Based IntelligentInformation and Engineering Systems.Maier, Emar.
2007.
Mixed quotation: between use andmention.
In Proceedings of LENLS2007, Miyazaki,Japan.Miller, Michael.
1993.
A view of one?s past and otheraspects of reasoned change in belief.
Ph.D. thesis,University of Maryland, College Park, Maryland.Nadeau, David and Satoshi Sekine.
2007.
A survey ofnamed entity recognition and classification.
Linguis-ticae Investigationes, 30(1):3?26.Perlis, Don, Khemdut Purang, and Carl Andersen.
1998.Conversational adequacy: mistakes are the essence.International Journal of Human-Computer Studies,48:553-575.Saka, Paul.
1998.
Quotation and the use-mention dis-tinction.
Mind, 107(425):113?135.Saka, Paul.
2005.
Quotational constructions.
BelgianJournal of Linguistics, 17(1):187?212.Snow, Rion, Brendan O?Connor, Daniel Jurafsky, andAndrew Y. Ng.
Cheap and fast?but is it good?
Eva-luating non-expert annotations for natural languagetasks.
2008.
In Proceedings of the Conference onEmpirical Methods in Natural Language Processing.Honolulu, Hawaii.33
