Proceedings of the NAACL HLT 2012 Student Research Workshop, pages 66?70,Montre?al, Canada, June 3-8, 2012. c?2012 Association for Computational LinguisticsAutomatic Humor Classification on TwitterYishay RazShanghai Jiao Tong UniversityDepartment of Computer Science & Engineering800 Dongchuan RoadShanghai, 200024, Chinayishayraz@yahoo.comAbstractMuch has been written about humor and evensarcasm automatic recognition on Twitter.
Thetask of classifying humorous tweets accord-ing to the type of humor has not been con-fronted so far, as far as we know.
This re-search is aimed at applying classification andother NLP algorithms to the challenging taskof automatically identifying the type and topicof humorous messages on Twitter.
To achievethis goal, we will extend the related work sur-veyed hereinafter, adding different types ofhumor and characteristics to distinguish be-tween them, including stylistic, syntactic, se-mantic and pragmatic ones.
We will keep inmind the complex nature of the task at hand,which emanates from the informal languageapplied in tweets and variety of humor typesand styles.
These tend to be remarkably dif-ferent from the type specific ones recognizedin related works.
We will use semi-supervisedclassifiers on a dataset of humorous tweetsdriven from different Twitter humor groups orfunny tweet sites.
Using a Mechanical Turkwe will create a gold standard in which eachtweet will be tagged by several annotators, inorder to achieve an agreement between them,although the nature of the humor might allowone tweet to be classified under more than oneclass and topic of humor.1 IntroductionThe interaction between humans and machines haslong extended out of the usability aspect.
Nowa-days, computers are not merely a tool to extendour lacking memory and manpower, but also servea larger role in communications, entertainment andmotivation.
These may be found in such systemsas Chatterbots, gaming and decision making.
Hu-mor is extremely important in any communicativeform.
It affects not only feelings but also influenceshuman beliefs.
It has even shown to encourage cre-ativity.
Enabling a machine to classify humor types(and topics) can have many practical applications,such as automatic humor subscriptions that send usonly those messages that will make us laugh.
It canserve as a basis for further research on humor gen-eration of witty and adequate replies by conversa-tional agent applications.
We tend to expose moreabout ourselves in humor than in regular prose.
Inthe next section we will highlight several researchresults from the fields of psychology and sociologythat show this, and explore the differences in humorproduced by different groups.
This knowledge canbe used to identify the latent attributes of the tweet-ers, e.g.
gender, geographical location or origin andpersonality features based on their tweets.
Aggres-siveness in humor can be viewed as a potential warn-ing sign and teach us about the authors mental well-being.We will now look at some examples of funnytweets from one of the sites, and then review the dif-ferent types, topics and the way in which the humanbrain operates to get the joke.
We will also see howcomputers can imitate this:1.
?And he said unto his brethren, A man shallnot poketh another man on facebook for thineis gayeth?
#lostbibleverses2.
if life gives you lemons, make someone?s paper66cut really sting3.
Sitting at a coffee bean and watching someoneget arrested at the starbucks across the street.True story.4.
One of Tigers mistresses got 10 million dollarsto keep quiet.
I gotta admit I?m really proud ofthat whore.5.
There is a new IPod app that translates JayLeno into funny.6.
May the 4th be with you...Example (1) has a hashtag that could help us under-stand the special stylistic suffixes some words in thesentence bear.
Googling the first part yields morethan 2 million hits, since this is a common bibli-cal verse.
This makes it a wordplay joke that para-phrases a known phrase.
But the main reason this isfunny is the observation that a very common Face-book action is gay.
Therefore, the type of this humorwould be classified as observational and the topicFacebook.
The latter could be observed by a com-puter if we allow it to recognize the named entityfacebook, which in many cases would serve as thetopic.
The type, which we recognize as gay, will ap-pear in our lexicon.
Since it appears after a copula,we can infer that this is not a regular gay joke.
Ifit was an outing tweet it would not be funny.
Forboth processes, we require a part of speech taggerand a NE recognizer.
We can find these two tools attt http://www.cs.washington.edu/homes/aritter/, de-veloped especially for Twitter by Alan Ritter.
Ex-ample (2) has no NE or any special lexicon word as-sociated with it.
A Google search of the first part ofthe sentence, within the quotes, will yield 639,000results.
So we can infer it is of wordplay type.
Butwhy is it funny?
The topic is human weakness, asdescribed by Mihalcea (2006).
We laugh at the man-ifestation of human misanthropy and the satisfactionin gloating.
This relates to the relief theory of hu-mor, as the joke is allowing us to speak about ourtabooed and unsocial feelings.
How can the com-puter understand this?
It is a tricky and complextask.
We could parse the sentence to find out thatthe reader is advised to make someones cut sting,and we could use a semantic ontology or a lexiconto teach the computer that sting is a negative expe-rience, which will lead to drawing the correct con-clusion.
We believe a comprehensive understandingof the sentence is not mandatory, but if necessary,we can use the work of Taylor (2010) as reference.Example (3) ends with the short sentence true story,which tells us that this is an anecdote.
The presentprogressive tense of the verbs implies the same.
Tounderstand this short sentence we need a semanticeffort, or a lexicon of such terms that confirm theanecdotal nature of the tweet.
The NE Starbuckscould be set as the viable topic.
Example (4) hasa proper noun as NE, Tigers, recognized by its cap-ital first letter.
This is also the topic, and the type isprobably vulgarity, that can be recognized by the lastword in it.
Example (5) is an insult, and the topic isthe proper name Jay Leno.
This research will likelyconclude that we prefer the human NE over the non-human one, when instructing the computer how tochoose our topic.
To recognize that this is an insultto Leno, we need to know he is a comedian, and thatthe tweet suggests that he is not funny.
An inter-net search will discover the former.
For the latter,we must understand what translate something intofunny means.
The semantics of the verb and its indi-rect object that follows the preposition into shouldclarify this.
This can be achieved by parsing thetweet, looking up the semantics of translate and co-median in a semantic ontology, and concluding thatLeno is not funny.
This is contradictory to his pro-fession and can be viewed as an insult.
Example (6)is a pun, or a wordplay, in taxonomy of Hay (1995).No topic.
The pun is based on the phonologic re-semblance of forth and force and the immortal quotefrom Star Wars.
According to Wikipedia, May 4this actually an official Star Wars day because of thispun, and an internet search can teach our computerwhat type of tweet this is.
Alternatively, with moreoriginal phonological puns, phonologic ontologies(which have not been researched thoroughly) can bea proper reference source.The remainder of the paper is organized as fol-lows: related work is reviewed in section 2 .
Sec-tion 3 briefly describes the data used in the experi-ments and evaluates the results.
Section 4 describesthe task and algorithm of humor classification andsection5 gives ideas for further research.672 Related WorkWe will survey the research work related to our the-sis in 4 different points of reference.2.1 Humor RecognitionWhile the classification of different data, identifyingwhether tweets are humorous, sarcastic, or neither,has been examined closely in recent years, I am un-aware of any research that has been done on auto-matic humor classification by type or topic.
One ofthe first studies on computational humor was doneby Binsted and Ritchie (1997), in which the authorsmodeled puns based on semantics and syntax.
Thiswork paved the way for humor generation researchworks, such as LIBJOG (Raskin and Attardo 1994),JAPE (Binsted and Ritchie 1994, 1997) and HA-HAcronym (Stock and Strapparava, 2003).
The twoformer systems were criticized as pseudo-generativebecause of the template nature of their synthesizedjokes.
The latter is also very limited in its syntax.Only in later studies was the recognition of humorexamined.
Mihalcea and Strapparava (2005) usedcontent and stylistic features to automatically rec-ognize humor.
This was done, however, on a morehomogenous set of data, one-liners, that, unliketweets, are formal, grammatically correct and of-ten exhibit stylistic features, such as alliteration andantonyms, which seldom appear in tweets.
Davi-dov et al (2010) recognized sarcastic sentences inTwitter.
They used a semi-supervised algorithm toacquire features that could then be used by the clas-sifier to decide which data item was sarcastic.
Inaddition to these lexical patterns, the classifier alsoused punctuation-based features (i.e.
number of !
).This procedure achieved an F-score of 0.83 on theTwitter dataset and the algorithm will be carefullyexamined in my research.2.2 Humor TheoriesThere are three theories of humor mentioned in re-lated works: the incongruity theory, the superioritytheory and the relief theory.
The incongruity the-ory suggests that the existence of two contradictoryinterpretations to the same statement is a necessarycondition for humor.
It was used as a basis for theSemantic Script-based Theory of Humour (SSTH)(Raskin 1985), and later on the General Theory ofVerbal Humour (GTVH) (Attardo and Raskin 1991).Taylor (2010) found that the semantic recognition ofhumor is based on this theory and on humor data thatsupport it.
We can see that examples (1)-(5) in sec-tion 1 do not comply with this theory.
It appears thatsome humorous statements can lack any incongruity.The superiority theory claims that humor is trig-gered by feelings of superiority with respect to our-selves or others from a prior event (Hobbes 1840).The relief theory views humor as a way out oftaboo and a license for banned thoughts.
Throughhumor the energy inhibited by social etiquette can bereleased and bring relief to both the author and au-dience.
Freud, as early as 1905, supported this the-ory and connected humor to the unconscious (Freud,1960).
Minsky (1980) embraces the theory and ob-serves the faulty logic in humor as another steam-releasing trait.
Mihalcea (2006) enumerated themost discriminative content-based features learnedby her humor classifier.
The more substantial fea-tures were found to be human-centric vocabulary,professional communities and human weaknessesthat often appear in humorous data.
We think thesefeatures of humor, more than the three theories men-tioned above, will be of greatest value to our task.2.3 Humor TypesWe will then explore what research has been per-formed on the actual content and types of humor,aside from the computer recognition point of view.There are many taxonomies of humor (Hay, 1995),and the one that best suits our data contains the fol-lowing categories:1.
Anecdotes2.
Fantasy3.
Insult4.
Irony5.
Jokes6.
Observational7.
Quote8.
Role play9.
Self deprecation6810.
Vulgarity11.
Wordplay12.
OtherWe believe that most of our humorous tweets willfall into one of the first 11 categories.3 DataOur task is to categorize the different humoroustweets.
A little about Twitter: Twitter is a popularmicroblogging service with more than 200 millionmessages (tweets) sent daily.
The tweet length isrestricted to 140 characters.
Users can subscribe toget al the tweets of a certain user, and are hencecalled followers of this user, but the tweets are pub-lically available, and can be read by anyone.
Theymay be read on the Twitter website, on many othersites, and through Twitter API, an interface that al-lows access to a great amount of tweets and user at-tributes.
Aside from text, tweets often include urladdresses, references to other Twitter users (appearas ?user?)
or content tags (called hashtags and ap-pear #?tag?
).
These tags are not taken from a set listbut can be invented by the tweeter.
They tend to bemore generic since they are used in Twitters searchengine to find tweets containing the tag.
Our humor-ous tweet dataset is derived from websites such ashttp://www.funny-tweets.com that pub-lish funny tweets, and can be further expanded bysubscribing to all tweets by comedians who appearon these sites.
Another option is a thorough check oftweets of Twitter Lists like ComedyWorld/ and fea-tures comedians who send messages to all of theirfollowers.3.1 EvaluationTo evaluate our results we must find out which typeand topic of humor every classified tweet belongs to.We are spared from the challenging task of decidingwhether a tweet is funny or not, since all of our datawas already deemed funny by the publishing sites.Categorizing humor is of course very complex, dueto the fuzzy nature of the taxonomy and the sub-jectivity of this task.
One tweet can be related tomore than one topic, and belong to more than onehumor type.
Nevertheless, the only way to achievea gold standard for such classification is through hu-man annotation, which can be accomplished throughthe use of a mechanical Turk.4 Humor ClassificationWe will use a semi-supervised algorithm with a seedof labeled tweets as input.
This will produce a set ofdistinguishing features for the multi-class classifier.A few feature types will be examined: syntactical,pattern-based, lexical, morphological, phonologicaland pragmatic.
Here are some examples which re-fer to the task of classifying the examples given insection 1:Syntactic Features?
transitiveness of the verb?
syntactic ambiguityPattern-based Features?
Patterns including high-frequency and contentwords as described in the algorithm in Davidovand Rappoport (2006)Lexical Features?
Lexicon words like Gay?
Existence of NEs (like Facebook and Star-bucks)?
Meaning of the verb and its objects(makesomeones cut sting)?
Lexical ambiguityMorphological Features?
The tense of the verbs in the tweet?
Special word morphology (like the biblical ethsuffix in our example (1))Phonological Features?
existence of a word that appears on a homo-phones list (which could help with pun recog-nition)Pragmatic Features?
Thee amount of results obtained from a searchengine query of the tweet of the verbs in thetweet69Stylistic Features?
Existence of smiley characters?
Punctuation, like !The topic of a tweet will also be retrieved fromautomatically retrieved features when it does not ap-pear as a NE in the tweet.5 Future WorkFurther research could be done to classify the tweet-ers of the humorous tweets based on attributes ofgender, age, location, etc.
This could be achievedusing the type and the topic of the tweets as addi-tional features to semi-supervised classifiers.
Thisidea was inspired by related work that found a corre-lation between humor and gender.
In the Gender andHumor chapter of her thesis, Hay (1995) surveyedold research that claimed women are less inclinedtowards humor than men.
Freud (1905) claimedwomen do not need a sense of humor because theyhave fewer strong taboo feelings to repress.
Thisperception is slowly changing, with more contem-poraneous work claiming that humor is different be-tween genders.
Hay concludes that:?
men are more likely to use vulgarity and quotesthan women?
women are more likely to use observational hu-morTo a lesser degree:?
men tend to use more role play and wordplay?
women are more likely to use jocular insultsWe did not find any relevant correlation studiesbetween age, origin, and other attributes with humor,but such research has likely been explored.ReferencesAttardo, S., Raskin, V. 1991.
Script theory revisited:Joke similarity and joke repre- sentation model.
Hu-mor: International Journal of Humor Research 4, 3-4.Cheng, Z., Caverlee, J., Lee, K. 2010.
You AreWhere You Tweet: A Content-Based Approach to Geo-locating Twitter Usersl.
Proceeding of the ACL con-ference 2010Davidov, D., and Tsur, O.
2010.
Semi-Supervised Recog-nition of Sarcastic Sentences in Twitter and AmazonComputational Linguistics, July, 107-116.Freud, S. 1905.
Der Witz und seine Beziehung zum Un-bewusstenFreud, S. 1960.
Jokes and their relation to the uncon-scious International Journal of Psychoanalysis 9Hay, J.
1995.
Gender and Humour: Beyond a Joke.Master thesis.Hobbes, T. 1840.
Human Nature in English Works.Molesworth.Mihalcea, R. 2006.
Learning to laugh automatically:Computational models for humor recognition.
Com-putational Intelligence, 222.Mihalcea, R. and Strapparava, C. 2005.
Making Comput-ers Laugh: Investigations in Automatic Humor Recog-nition.
roceedings of the Conference on Human Lan-guage Technology and Empirical Methods in NaturalLanguage ProcessingMinsky, M. 1980.
Jokes and the logic of the cognitiveunconscious.
Tech.
rep., MIT Artificial IntelligenceLaboratory.Pennacchiotti, M. and Popescu, A.
2011.
Democrats ,Republicans and Starbucks Afficionados: User Classi-fication in Twitter.
Statistics, 430-438.Rao, D., Yarowsky, D., Shreevats, A. and Gupta, M.2010.
Classifying Latent User Attributes in Twitter.Science, 37-44.Raskin, V. 1985.
Semantic Mechanisms of Humor.Kluwer Academic PublicationsSolomon, R. 2002.
Ethics and Values in the InformationAge.
Wadsworth.Taylor, J. M. 2010.
Ontology-based view of natural lan-guage meaning: the case of humor detection.
Journalof Ambient Intelligence and Humanized Computing,13, 221-234.Ziv A.
1988.
National Styles of Humor.
GreenwoodPress, Inc.70
