Proceedings of the NAACL-HLT 2012: Demonstration Session, pages 33?36,Montre?al, Canada, June 3-8, 2012. c?2012 Association for Computational LinguisticsAttitudeMiner: Mining Attitude from Online DiscussionsAmjad Abu-JbaraEECS DepartmentUniversity of MichiganAnn Arbor, MI, USAamjbara@umich.eduAhmed HassanMicrosoft ResearchRedmond, WA, USAhassanam@microsoft.comDragomir RadevEECS DepartmentUniversity of MichiganAnn Arbor, MI, USAradev@umich.eduAbstractThis demonstration presents AttitudeMiner, asystem for mining attitude from online dis-cussions.
AttitudeMiner uses linguistic tech-niques to analyze the text exchanged betweenparticipants of online discussion threads at dif-ferent levels of granularity: the word level, thesentence level, the post level, and the threadlevel.
The goal of this analysis is to iden-tify the polarity of the attitude the discussantscarry towards one another.
Attitude predic-tions are used to construct a signed networkrepresentation of the discussion thread.
In thisnetwork, each discussant is represented by anode.
An edge connects two discussants ifthey exchanged posts.
The sign (positive ornegative) of the edge is set based on the po-larity of the attitude identified in the text asso-ciated with the edge.
The system can be usedin different applications such as: word polar-ity identification, identifying attitudinal sen-tences and their signs, signed social networkextraction from text, subgroup detect in dis-cussion.
The system is publicly available fordownload and has an online demonstration athttp://clair.eecs.umich.edu/AttitudeMiner/.1 IntroductionThe rapid growth of social media has encouragedpeople to interact with each other and get involvedin discussions more than anytime before.
The mostcommon form of interaction on the web uses textas the main communication medium.
When peoplediscuss a topic, especially when it is a controversialone, it is normal to see situations of both agreementand disagreement among the discussants.
It is evennot uncommon that the big group of discussants splitinto two or more smaller subgroups.
The membersof each subgroup mostly agree and show positiveattitude toward each other, while they mostly dis-agree with the members of opposing subgroups andpossibly show negative attitude toward them.
Theseforms of sentiment are expressed in text by usingcertain language constructs (e.g.
use insult or nega-tive slang to express negative attitude).In this demonstration, we present a system thatapplies linguistic analysis techniques to the text ofonline discussions to predict the polarity of relationsthat develop between discussants.
This analysis isdone on words to identify their polarities, then onsentences to identify attitudinal sentences and thesign of attitude, then on the post level to identify thesign of an interaction, and finally on the entire threadlevel to identify the overall polarity of the relation.Once the polarity of the pairwise relations that de-velop between interacting discussants is identified,this information is then used to construct a signednetwork representation of the discussion thread.The system also implements two signed networkpartitioning techniques that can be used to detecthow the discussants split into subgroups regardingthe discussion topic.The functionality of the system is based onour previous research on word polarity identifica-tion (Hassan and Radev, 2010) and attitude identifi-cation (Hassan et al, 2010).
The system is publiclyavailable for download and has a web interface to tryonline1.This work is related to previous work in the areasof sentiment analysis and online discussion mining.Many previous systems studied the problem of iden-tifying the polarity of individual words (Hatzivas-siloglou and McKeown, 1997; Turney and Littman,2003).
Opinionfinder (Wilson et al, 2005a) is a sys-tem for mining opinions from text.
Another researchline focused on analyzing online discussions.
Forexample, Lin et al (2009) proposed a sparse coding-based model that simultaneously models the seman-tics and the structure of threaded discussions andShen et al (2006) proposed a method for exploit-ing the temporal information in discussion streamsto identify the reply structure of the dialog.
Manysystems addressed the problem of extracting socialnetworks from data (Elson et al, 2010; McCallumet al, 2007), but none of them considered both pos-itive and negative relations.In the rest of the paper, we describe the systemarchitecture, implementation, usage, and its perfor-1http://clair.eecs.umich.edu/AttitudeMiner/33DiscussionThread?.??.?.??.?.?
?.Text PolarityIdentification?
Identify polarized words?
Identify the contextualpolarity of each wordAttitude Identification?
Identify AttitudinalSentences?
Predict the sign onattitudePost sign identification?
Aggregate the signs ofattitudinal sentences toassign a sign to thepost.Relation Sign?
Aggregate the signs of allthe posts exchanged byinteracting participantsto assign a sign for theirrelation.Signed NetworkSubgroupsThread Parsing?
Identify posts?
Identify discussants?
Identify the replystructure?
Tokenize text?
Split posts into sentences+ _Figure 1: Overview of the system processing pipelinemance evaluation.2 System OverviewFigure 1 shows a block diagram of the system com-ponents and the processing pipeline.
The first com-ponent in the system is the thread parsing com-ponent which takes as input a discussion threadand parses it to identify the posts, the participants,and the reply structure of the thread.
This compo-nent uses a module from CLAIRLib (Abu-Jbara andRadev, 2011) to tokenize the posts and split theminto sentences.The second component in the pipeline processesthe text of the posts to identify polarized words andtag them with their polarity.
This component usesthe publicly available tool, opinionfinder (Wilson etal., 2005a), as a framework for polarity identifica-tion.
This component uses an extended polarity lex-icon created by applying a random walk model toWordNet (Miller, 1995) and a set of seed polarizedwords.
This approach is described in detail in ourprevious work (Hassan and Radev, 2010).
The con-text of words is taken into consideration by runninga contextual word classifier that determines whetherthe word is used in a polarized sense given the con-text (Wilson et al, 2005b).
For example, a positiveword appearing in a negated scope is used in a neg-ative, rather than a positive sense.The next component is the attitude identificationcomponent.
Given a sentence, our model predictswhether it carries an attitude from the text writer to-ward the text recipient or not.
As we are only in-terested in attitudes between participants, we limitour analysis to sentences that use mentions of a dis-cussion participants (i.e.
names or second personpronouns).
We also discard all sentences that donot contain polarized expressions as detected by theprevious component.
We extract several patterns atdifferent levels of generalization representing anygiven sentence.
We use words, part-of-speech tags,and dependency relations.
We use those patterns tobuild two Markov models for every kind of patterns.The first model characterizes the relation betweendifferent tokens for all patterns that correspond tosentences that have an attitude.
The second modelis similar to the first one, but it uses all patterns thatcorrespond to sentences that do not have an attitude.Given a new sentence, we extract the correspondingpatterns and estimate the likelihood of every patternbeing generated from the two corresponding mod-els.
We then compute the likelihood ratio of the sen-tence under every pair of models.
Notice that wehave a pair of models corresponding to every type ofpatterns.
The likelihood ratios are combined using alinear model, the parameters of which are estimatedusing a development dataset.
Please refer to (Hassanet al, 2010) for more details about this component.The next component works on the post level.
Itassigns a sign to each post based on the signs of thesentences it contains.
A post is classified as negativeif it has at leastNs negative sentences, otherwise it isclassified as positive.
The value ofNs can be chosenby the user or set to default which was estimatedusing a small labeled development set.
The defaultvalue forNs is 1 (i.e.
if the post contains at least onenegative sentence, the whole post is considered to benegative).The next component in the pipeline uses the atti-tude predictions from posts to construct a signed net-work representation of the discussion thread.
Eachparticipant is represented by a node.
An edge iscreated between two participants if they interactedwith each other.
A sign (positive or negative) is as-signed to an edge based on the signs of the poststhe two participants connected by the edge have ex-changed.
This is done by comparing the number ofpositive and negative posts.
A negative sign is givenif the two participants exchanged at least Np nega-tive posts.
The value of Np can be set using a devel-opment set.
The default value is 1.The last component is the subgroup identifica-34Figure 2: The web interface for detecting subgroups in discussionstion component.
This component provides imple-mentations for two signed network partitioning algo-rithms.
The first one is a greedy optimization algo-rithm that is based on the principals of the structuralbalance theory.
The algorithm uses a criterion func-tion for a local optimization partitioning such thatpositive links are dense within groups and negativelinks are dense between groups.
The algorithm is de-scribed in detail in (Doreian and Mrvar, 1996).
Thesecond algorithm is FEC (Yang et al, 2007).
FECis based on an agent-based random walk model.
Itstarts by finding a sink community, and then extract-ing it from the entire network based on a graph cutcriteria that Yang et al (2007) proposed.
The sameprocess is then applied recursively to the extractedcommunity and the rest of the network.3 Implementation DetailsThe system is implemented in Perl.
Some of thecomponents in the processing pipeline use externaltools that are implemented in either Perl, Java, orPython.
All the external tools come bundled with thesystem.
The system is compatible with all the ma-jor platforms including windows, Mac OS, and allLinux distributions.
The installation process is verystraightforward.
There is a single installation scriptthat will install the system, install all the dependen-cies, and do all the required configurations.
The in-stallation requires that Java JRE, Perl, and Python beinstalled on the machine.The system has a command-line interface thatprovides full access to the system functionality.
Thecommand-line interface can be used to run the wholepipeline or any portion of it.
It can also be used to ac-cess any component directly.
Each component has acorresponding script that can be run separately.
Theinput and output specifications of each componentare described in the accompanying documentation.All the parameters that control the performance ofthe system can also be passed through the command-line interface.The system can process any discussion thread thatis input to it in a specific XML format.
The fi-nal output of the system is also in XML format.The XML schema of the input/output is describedin the documentation.
It is the user responsibil-ity to write a parser that converts an online discus-sion thread to the expected XML format.
The sys-tem package comes with three such parsers for threedifferent discussion sites: www.politicalforum.com,groups.google.com, and www.createdebate.com.The distribution also comes with three datasets(from three different sources) comprising a total of300 discussion threads.
The datasets are annotatedwith the subgroup labels of discussants.
Included inthe distribution as well, a script for generating a vi-sualization of the extracted signed network and theidentified subgroups.AttitudeMiner also has a web interface thatdemonstrates most of its functionality.
The web in-35Figure 3: The web interface for identifying attitudinalsentences and their polarityterface is intended for demonstration purposes only.No webservice is provided.
Figure 2 and Figrue 3show two screenshots for the web interface.4 System PerformanceIn this section, we give a brief summary of the sys-tem performance.
The method that generates theextended polarity lexicon that is used for word po-larity identification achieves 88.8% accuracy as re-ported in (Hassan and Radev, 2010).
The attitudeidentification component distinguishes between at-titudinal and non-attitudinal sentences with 80.3%accuracy, and predicts the signs of attitudinal sen-tences with 97% accuracy as reported in (Hassan etal., 2010).
Our evaluation for the signed networkextraction component on a large annotated datasetshowed that it achieves 83.5% accuracy.
Finally, ourexperiments on an annotated discussion showed thatthe system can detect subgroups with 77.8% purity.The system was evaluated using a dataset with thou-sands of posts labeled by human annotators.5 ConclusionWe presented of a demonstration of a social me-dia mining system that used linguistic analysis tech-niques to understand the relations that develop be-tween users in online communities.
The system iscapable of analyzing the text exchanged during dis-cussions and identifying positive and negative atti-tudes.
Positive attitude reflects a friendly relationwhile negative attitude is a sign of an antagonisticrelation.
The system can also use the attitude infor-mation to identify subgroups with a homogeneousand common focus among the discussants.
The sys-tem predicts attitudes and identifies subgroups withhigh accuracy.AcknowledgmentsThis research was funded by the Office of the Di-rector of National Intelligence (ODNI), IntelligenceAdvanced Research Projects Activity (IARPA),through the U.S. Army Research Lab.
All state-ments of fact, opinion or conclusions containedherein are those of the authors and should not beconstrued as representing the official views or poli-cies of IARPA, the ODNI or the U.S. Government.ReferencesAmjad Abu-Jbara and Dragomir Radev.
2011.
Clairlib:A toolkit for natural language processing, informationretrieval, and network analysis.
In ACL-HLT 2011-Demo, June.Patrick Doreian and Andrej Mrvar.
1996.
A partitioningapproach to structural balance.
Social Networks.David Elson, Nicholas Dames, and Kathleen McKeown.2010.
Extracting social networks from literary fiction.In ACL 2010, pages 138?147, Uppsala, Sweden, July.Ahmed Hassan and Dragomir R. Radev.
2010.
Identify-ing text polarity using random walks.
In ACL 2010.Ahmed Hassan, Vahed Qazvinian, and Dragomir Radev.2010.
What?s with the attitude?
identifying sentenceswith attitude in online discussions.Vasileios Hatzivassiloglou and Kathleen R. McKeown.1997.
Predicting the semantic orientation of adjec-tives.
In EACL?97.Chen Lin, Jiang-Ming Yang, Rui Cai, Xin-Jing Wang,and Wei Wang.
2009.
Simultaneously modeling se-mantics and structure of threaded discussions: a sparsecoding approach and its applications.
In SIGIR ?09.Andrew McCallum, Xuerui Wang, and Andre?s Corrada-Emmanuel.
2007.
Topic and role discovery in so-cial networks with experiments on enron and academicemail.
J. Artif.
Int.
Res.George A. Miller.
1995.
Wordnet: A lexical database forenglish.
Communications of the ACM.Dou Shen, Qiang Yang, Jian-Tao Sun, and Zheng Chen.2006.
Thread detection in dynamic text messagestreams.
In SIGIR ?06, pages 35?42.Peter Turney and Michael Littman.
2003.
Measuringpraise and criticism: Inference of semantic orientationfrom association.
ACM Transactions on InformationSystems.Theresa Wilson, Paul Hoffmann, Swapna Somasun-daran, Jason Kessler, Janyce Wiebe, Yejin Choi,Claire Cardie, Ellen Riloff, and Siddharth Patwardhan.2005a.
Opinionfinder: a system for subjectivity anal-ysis.
In HLT/EMNLP - Demo.Theresa Wilson, Janyce Wiebe, and Paul Hoffmann.2005b.
Recognizing contextual polarity in phrase-level sentiment analysis.
In HLT/EMNLP?05.Bo Yang, William Cheung, and Jiming Liu.
2007.
Com-munity mining from signed social networks.
IEEETrans.
on Knowl.
and Data Eng.36
