Proceedings of the NAACL HLT 2012 Student Research Workshop, pages 23?28,Montre?al, Canada, June 3-8, 2012. c?2012 Association for Computational LinguisticsUnified Extraction of Health Condition DescriptionsIvelina NikolovaInstitute of Information and Communication TechnologiesBulgarian Academy of Sciences2, Acad.
G. Bonchev Str, 1113 Sofiaiva@lml.bas.bgAbstractThis paper discusses a method for identifyingdiabetes symptoms and conditions in free textelectronic health records in Bulgarian.
Themain challenge is to automatically recognisephrases and paraphrases for which no ?canon-ical forms?
exist in any dictionary.
The fo-cus is on extracting blood sugar level andbody weight change which are some of thedominant factors when diagnosing diabetes.A combined machine-learning and rule-basedapproach is applied.
The experiment is per-formed on 2031 sentences of diabetes case his-tory.
The F-measure varies between 60 and96% in the separate processing phases.1 IntroductionElectronic Health Records (EHRs) are a rich sourceof information regarding patient?s health conditionand treatment over time but they often exist as freetext only.
Currently great efforts are put into struc-turing such data and making them available for fur-ther automatic processing, the so-called secondaryuse of EHRs.
Following this line of work in thispaper we present a pilot study for extracting con-dition descriptions from EHRs in Bulgarian with thehelp of NLP techniques thus making a step towardthe structuring of the free text.
The specificity ofthe EHRs as a combination of biomedical termi-nology in an underresourced language and a sourceof valuable health-care data makes them attractivefor various medical and language research tasks.We present an algorithm which comprises machinelearning (ML) techniques and rule-based analysis toautomatically identify phrases and paraphrases, forwhich no ?canonical forms?
exist in any dictionary,with minimal effort.
We analyse anonymous EHRsof patients diagnosed with diabetes.We focus on extracting the levels of blood sugarand body weight change (examples are given in ta-ble 1) which are some of the dominant factors whendiagnosing diabetes but we believe this approach canextend to recognise also other symptoms or medica-tion expressions which have similar record structure.We extract information which is on one hand veryimportant for the professionals and on the other handnot directly observable in a collection of unstruc-tured documents because of its composite mean-ing.
In Bulgarian EHRs laboratory data is some-times present inline in the text only and means forextracting such information from the plain text mes-sage are often needed.The paper is structured as follows: section 2presents related studies, section 4 describes themethod, and section 3 the experiments.
The resultsare given in section 5 and the conclusion in section 6.2 Related WorkThere are several successful systems for identifyingpatient characteristics and health conditions, mostlyin English documents.
The one presented by Savovaet al (2008) solves the task of identifying the smok-ing status of patients by accurately classifying in-dividual sentences from the patient records.
Theyachieve F-measure 85.57.
One of the limitations isthe lack of negation detection.
Similarly to their ap-proach our source documents are decomposed intosentences which are to be classified.
The symptom23descriptions are short and always written within asingle sentence, therefore it is important to filter outthe irrelevant sentences.
We employ ML techniquesand rule-based analysis and in addition deal withnegation detection.Harkema et al (2009) presents an algorithmcalled ConText, which determines whether clinicalconditions mentioned in clinical reports are negated,hypothetical, historical, or experienced by someoneother than the patient.
The system is entirely rule-based and infers the status of a condition from sim-ple lexical clues occurring in the context of the con-dition.
This algorithm proves successful in process-ing different clinical report types with F-measure fornegation (75-95%), historical (22-84%), hypotheti-cal (86-96%) and experiencer (100%) depending onthe report types.
Our work rests on a similar idea ?we prepare a set of vocabularies which are learnedfrom data and are used for determining the scope ofthe expressions of interest but we focus on extractinghealth conditions, their status, values and negation.Negation is one of the most important features tobe recognized in medical texts.
There is a work forBulgarian by Boytcheva (2005) which specificallytackles the negation by the presence of triggering ex-pression as we do too.Many systems implement isolated condition iden-tification and rarely complete semantic model ofall conditions, e.g.
MedLEE (Friedman, 1994),MEDSYNDIKATE (Hahn, 2002) etc.
identify thestatus condition and also modifying information likeanatomic location, negation, change over time.
InBoytcheva et al (2010) the authors extract from Bul-garian EHRs the status of the patient skin, limbs, andneck with thyroid gland with high accuracy.3 Experimental DataSource Data This work is done on free text EHRsof diabetic patients submitted by the Endocrinol-ogy Hospital of the Medical University in Sofia.The health conditions are written in the case historywhich describes the diabetes development, compli-cations, their corresponding treatment, etc.
Symp-tom descriptions are written within a single sen-tence (sometimes other symptoms are described inthe same sentence too) as shown in table 1.Our training corpus is a subset of anamnesis sen-Ex.
1.
Pri izsledvane krvnata zahar e bila -14 mmol/l.
(After examination the blood sugar was- 14 mmol/l.)Ex.
2.
Postypva po povod na poliuriqno-polidipsiqen sindrom, redukci na tegloto iketoacidoza.
(Enters hospital because of polyuria-polydipsia syndrome, weight reduction and ketoacido-sis.
)Table 1: Examples of symptom descriptions.tences regarding only symptom descriptions.
It isannotated with symptom type on sentence level andwith symptom description on token level.
These areexcerpts from from 100 epicrises.
All sentences aremarked with class ?bs?
(blood sugar), ?bwc?
(bodyweight change) or another symptom.
The sentencesthat describe more symptoms have more than one la-bel.
These data was used for learning the rules andthe vocabularies.
The experimental/test dataset con-sists of 2031 anamnesis sentences annotated withsymptoms.
The documents are manually sentencesplit and automatically tokenized.
To overcome theinflexion and gain a wider coverage of the rules wealso use stemmed forms (Nakov, 2010).Vocabularies The algorithm relies on a set of spe-cific vocabularies manually built from the anno-tated training set.
We build a Focal Term Vocab-ulary which contains words and phrases signallingthe presence of the health condition description (e.g.
?glycemic control?, ?hypoglycemia?
etc.).
It is usedfor defining the condition in phase 2.
All singlewords which appear in this vocabulary except for thestop words form the so called Key Term Vocabularyused in the phase 1 classification task.There are two vocabularies containing borderterms: one with rightmost context border expres-sions (Right Border Vocabulary); and one with leftborder expressions (Left Border Vocabulary).
Theseare conjunctions and phrases separating the bloodsugar level description from another observationpreceding it.
Both vocabularies are sorted in de-scending order by the probability of occurrence as-sociated with each expression as border term.A Vocabulary of Negation Expressions is alsocompiled as well as a Vocabulary of ConditionStatuses (e.g.
?good?, ?bad?, ?increased?
etc.
).244 MethodologyWe aim at identifying health conditions in the EHRcase history.
The problem can be broken down intothe following subtasks: Phase 1: identify the rele-vant sentences; Phase 2: identify the condition andits status; Phase 3: identify the values related to thesymptom of interest - mmol/l, kg etc.
; Phase 4: iden-tify negation; Phase 5: identify the scope of the de-scription - match left and right border terms.Two experiments for accomplishing phase 1 havebeen carried out: a rule-based one and ML-basedone.
In the ML setting we train a binary classifica-tion algorithm.
We experiment with 3 feature sets:(i) all tokens in the corpus; (ii) the tokens from KeyTerm Vocabulary and (iii) restricted subset of theKey Term Vocabulary.
In all cases each sentenceis considered a document and each document fea-ture vector contains the following boolean values foreach feature: the feature value is true iff the docu-ment contains the corresponding token from the fea-ture set, otherwise it is false.
In this setting we usethe experimental corpus which we split in folds fortraining and testing and the vocabularies which arelearned from the training corpus.In the rule-based experiment, we construct light-weight regular expressions that match symptom de-scriptions in the training set.
We model them in con-text window of up to 5-7 tokens to the left and rightof the focal terms depending on the kind of expres-sion.
When composing the rules like in figure 1 weintroduce new links between tokens which are notsubsequent in the training dataset, if the newly cre-ated token sequences would be meaningful focal ex-pressions.
The black edges are obtained from thetraining corpus and the dashed grey one is manuallyadded.
This approach would not harm any identifi-cation procedure because it can match only an ex-isting sequence in the target text therefore we canonly benefit from such augmented rules.
Moreoverthese rules are crafted for stemmed text which par-tially overcomes the morphological agreement prob-lem (Bulgarian is a highly inflective language) thusthey have wider coverage on the possible signallingwords (see table 2).
The sentences matching theserules are passed to phase 2.????????
????
?blood sugar???????????????
?morninghighvery ????
?Figure 1: Adding new edges between tokens.krvn[ai](t)?
zahar (the blood sugar)((nezadovolitelen) OR (dobr) OR (lox)OR (otliq)) (glikemiq kontrol) (not satisfactoryOR good OR bad OR excellent glycemic control)Table 2: Phase 1 rules after stemming.At phase 2 the condition status is recognised.
Theblood sugar level is most often cited as low, highor normal and could be also bad or good, bodyweight can be increased or decreased.
The contextwords which signal the status of the condition appearon the left side of the focal terms, such as: s vi-soki sto$inosti na kr.
zahar (with high values ofthe blood sugar); lox glikemiqen kontrol (badglycemic control).Phase 3 analysis is related to the dynamic exten-sion of the right context of the analysed expressionin order to cover all necessary attributes.
At thisphase we aim at identifying the value of the bloodsugar test if there is such.
The values of this test aregiven in various ways ?
as an interval of values; asa maximal value reached during some period or aconcrete value.
At this step we apply rules matchingvocabulary words signalling the type of value rep-resentation e.g.
medu (between); do (up to); nad(above); okolo (around).When the algorithm recognises a word signallinginterval value representation such as medu (be-tween), it takes action to expand the right contextto the next two numbers and measuring unit af-ter the second one, but with no more than 7 to-kens.
If the numbers fall out of this 7-token windowthey are ignored and the value identification algo-rithm fails.
We determined the 7-token window ex-perimentally by analysing the training set of EHRswhere often verbs expressing temporality are con-necting/separating the focal terms from the ones de-scribing lab test values (as shown in table 3).25krvnozaharna sto$inost do 10-11 mmol/l(bloodsugar level up to 10-11 mmol/l)sto$inostite na krvnata zahar sa bili (medu4 i 6,5 mmol/l) (level of the blood sugar has beenbetween 4) (and 6,5 mmol/l)Table 3: Recognition of lab test values.In phase 4 we recognise negation.
We observeonly limited occurrences of negations in the text.This is due to the fact that in Bulgarian prac-tice mostly medical conditions with pathologicalchanges are described.
The expressions signallingnegation appear on the left context of the phrasesmarked at phase 1 and they modify the expres-sions identified at phase 2.
Some examples are:ne sobwava za... (does not inform about...); ne[mnogo] visoki sto$inosti na ... (not [very] highvalues of...).Phase 5 identifies the symptom description scope.It is determined by the context words which signalthe beginning of the expression, its ending and thealready identified attributes.
The expression of in-terest either starts at the beginning of the sentence orfollows another description and conjunctions.
Theend of the expression is either coinciding with theend of the sentence, or is signalled by a value of theblood sugar test, or a description of another symp-tom (see table 4).
The border identification rulesare applied on the right and on the left of the al-ready identified attributes starting from the rule hav-ing highest probability and continue in descendingorder until a match is found.
If no match is found in7-token context window the right border is consid-ered the right most token of the current expressionand the left border of the expression is either the firsttoken of the focal term or negation of the expressionor status of the condition.5 Evaluation5.1 Phase 1 - Rules vs MLThe evaluation of our approach is performed fromseveral different perspectives.
We compare text clas-sification versus rule-based approach at phase 1.
Inthe ML setting each input document (meaning eachsentence) has a boolean feature vector representingthe presence of each token of the feature set in thatBeginning of expressions of interestpri krvna zahar... (with blood sugar...)na fona na lox glikemiqen kontrol... (on thebackground of bad glycemic control...)s visoki sto$inosti na krvnata zahar... (withhigh values of the blood sugar...)Ending of expressions of interest...krvna zahar - 14 mmol/l.
(...blood sugar - 14mmol/l.
)...lox glikemiqen kontrol i ketoacidoza.
(...bad clycemic control and ketoacidosis.
)Table 4: Beginning and ending of expressions.sentence.
The concrete attribute position xi is falseif the sentence does not contain the correspondingfeature token and is true if it contains it.The applied classification algorithm is a standardJ48 decision tree which we consider appropriate,given the fact we supply binary data (Visa et al,2007).
We used Weka Data Mining Software (Hall,2007) for performing the tests.
The results with bestsettings are shown in table 5.To achieve these results we did several experi-ments on the test set, using the features selectedfrom the training set.
The initial test was donewith a feature set comprising all tokens in the textcollection except for stop words.
The achieved F-measure was about 82 in 10-fold cross-validation, to89% in isolated experiments and up to 92% on bal-anced datasets.
The precision was as high as 92%and the recall varying from 73 to 85% in the dif-ferent symptoms.
In the second round the featureset contained only tokens from the Key Term Vo-cabulary.
This boosted up the classification perfor-mance to 90% F-measure for blood sugar and bodyweight change.
When we restricted the feature spaceonce again leaving only the most significant symp-tom words in the feature space the performance wasabout 89% F-measure.
In all cases the precision var-ied about 92-94%, and up to 98% when classifyingblood sugar level with the full keyword set, whichis encouraging.
At that time the recall was about75% in blood sugar identification and this could beexplained with the highly imbalanced dataset.
Onlyabout 20% of the sentences were blood sugar relatedand 6% body weight change related.
These results26Method % Precision Recall F-measureJ48 bs 22 feat.
94.80 80.00 86.80J48 bwc 16 feat.
94.30 85.30 89.60Rule-based bs 96.40 90.00 93.09Rule-based bwc 98.50 92.00 95.14Table 5: Level 1 evaluation.
ML vs Rule-based best per-formance.Phase Precision Recall F-measureBlood sugar (bc)Ph.1 Focus 96.4 90.0 93.09Ph.2 Status 91 45.5 60.6Ph.3 Values 88.9 77.8 83Ph.4 Neg.
96.3 94.2 95.2Ph.5 Scope 97 96 96.5Body weight change (bwc)Ph.1 Focus 96.6 90.6 93.5Ph.2 Status 86.2 78.1 82Ph.3 Values 87.5 70 77.8Ph.4 Neg.
NA NA NAPh.5 Scope 82.7 75 78.7Table 6: Rule performance by levelshow that even without introducing domain knowl-edge and using the full feature space the positive out-put predictions are reliable.
SVM classification wasalso tested but it was outperformed by J48.Table 5 shows that the precision of the rule-basedapproach is higher than the one obtained by auto-matic classification.
However during the error anal-ysis we noticed that in the rule-based setting sometrue positives were wrongly classified as such be-cause they matched non symptom related expres-sions in sentences where the symptoms occur and re-spectively are annotated as positive.
In means of pre-cision both approaches differ only in about 2 pointswhich invokes the assumption that they are compa-rable to each other and could be used as alternativesfor experiments on a larger scale even without in-corporating domain knowledge, especially in sucha task where the accuracy of the extraction is moreimportant than the coverage.5.2 Phase by Phase EvaluationResults from the separate phases of rule-based anal-ysis are shown in table 6.At phase 2 the tokens available in the training setare completely recognised; there is a group of to-kens which are not available in the training set, butduring the phase 1 processing fall into the scope ofthe expression of interest.
These ones are includedto the condition description without having assignedany status class.
Tokens may not be identified fortwo reasons ?
they are not available in the trainingset or they are misplaced (e.g.
the target adjective isfollowing the focal expression instead of precedingit, as it happens in all training set examples).
45%of the attributes expressing blood sugar status arerecognised and 78.1% espressing body weight.
Al-though the recall for blood sugar seems to be low atthis phase, the result is actually good because dur-ing the error analysis we found out that 60% of thetokens which were not identified were equivalent.At phase 3 the main problem for value recogni-tion were the alphanumerical expressions of lab testvalues which occur comparatively rare and have awide range of spelling variants (and errors).
Thusfew extraction errors have high influence on the pre-cision.
This problem can be easily overcome by pre-generating a list of alphanumeric expressions andtheir variations.
The negation at phase 4 was recog-nised with high accuracy.At phase 5 all scope problems for blood sugar re-lated expressions are resolved successfully exceptfor one.
The interval describing the value of theblood sugar was written as ?ot 12 mmol/l do 14mmol/l?
(from 12 mmol/l to 14 mmol/l) instead of?from 12 to 14 mmol/l?
like all such examples inthe training set.
This lead to wrongly recognisedright border and only partial recognition of the bloodsugar level value.
However this issue could be eas-ily overcome by extending the recognition rules withadditional ?cosmetic?
clauses for processing of al-phanumeric values as suggested above.
It would behelpful for recognition of any symptom to add newlexical alternations and paraphrases in addtion to thestemmed forms in the regex.
Our approach is com-pletely driven by the training set analysis becauseour goal is to see how far do we get on that base.The extension of the rules as shown on figure 1helped identifying blood sugar descriptions twice.We believe that such extensions in feature will havehigher impact on a larger scale experiment.276 Conclusion and Future WorkWe proposed a unified approach to the recogni-tion of medical descriptions with composite mean-ing, which are represented by a wide range of para-phrases in the free EHR texts in Bulgarian.
The re-sults show a relatively high precision in identifyinghealth condition descriptions in the EHR texts.
Thiswas achieved with the use of shallow rules and mi-nor additional effort to extend the rules coverage -stemming of the source documents and adding newmeaningful links to the rules where possible.
Thesentence identification task has nearly the same ac-curacy in terms of precision when performed with abinary J48 classifier and with the rule-based phase 1analysis even without incorporating key terms in theclassification.
These results give an insight into thepossibilities of a further usage of automatic classifi-cation for such tasks, due to its flexibility.As a follow up to this study we will try to gener-alise this algorithm to a more abstract level so thatit can be transferable for the identification of otherhealth conditions, medication etc.
We will also puteffort in the automatic extraction of symptom identi-fication rules by analysing the classification predic-tions and the corresponding document feature vec-tors.AcknowledgmentsThe research work presented in this paper is partlysupported by grant DO 02-292/December 2008 ?Ef-fective search of conceptual information with appli-cations in medical informatics?, funded by the Bul-garian National Science Fund in 2009-2012 (EV-TIMA).ReferencesBoytcheva, S., A. Strupchanska, E. Paskaleva, D.Tcharaktchiev, 2005.
Some Aspects of NegationProcessing in Electronic Health Records.
In Proc.Int.
Workshop LSI in the Balkan Countries, 2005,Borovets, Bulgaria, pp.
1-8.Boytcheva S., I. Nikolova, E. Paskaleva, G. Angelova,D.
Tcharaktchiev and N. Dimitrova, 2010.
ObtainingStatus Descriptions via Automatic Analysis of HospitalPatient Records.
Informatica, 34(3):269-278.Chapman, W., W. Bridewell, P. Hanbury, G. Cooper andB.
Buchanan, 2001.
A simple Algorithm for Identify-ing Negated Findings and Diseases in Discharge Sum-maries.
J Biomed Inf, 34(5):301-310.Chapman D. Chu, J.N.
Dowling and W.W. Chapman,2006.
Evaluating the Effectiveness of Four Contex-tual Features in Classifying Annotated Clinical Condi-tions in Emergency Department Reports.
AMIA AnnuSymp Proc, pp.
141-145.Elkin, P.L., S.H.
Brown, B.A.
Bauer, C.S.
Husser, W.Carruth and L.R.
Bergstrom, et al, 2005.
A Con-trolled Trial of Automated Classification of NegationFrom Clinical Notes.
BMC Med Inform Decis Mak,2005, 5(1), p. 13.Friedman, C., P.O.
Alderson, J.H.
Austin, J.J. Cimino andS.B.
Johnson, 1994.
A General Natural-LanguageText Processor for Clinical Radiology.
JAMIA, 1994Mar-Apr, 1(2), pp.
161-74.Hall, M., E. Frank, G. Holmes, B. Pfahringer, P. Reute-mann, I. H. Witten, 2009.
The WEKA Data MiningSoftware: An Update; SIGKDD Explorations, 11(1).Harkema, H., J. Dowling, T. Thornblade, W. Chapman,2009.
ConText: An Algorithm for Determining Nega-tion, Experiencer, and Temporal Status from ClinicalReports.
J Biomed Inf, 2009, 42(5), pp.
839-51.Hahn, U., M. Romacker and S. Schulz, 2002.
MEDSYN-DIKATE - a Natural Language System for the Extrac-tion of Medical Information from Findings Reports.Int J Med Inf, 2002, 67(1-3), pp.
63-74.Huang, Y. and H.J.
Lowe, A Novel Hybrid Approach toAutomated Negation Detection in Clinical RadiologyReports.
JAMIA, 2007, 14(3), pp.
304-11.Mutalik, P., A. Deshpande, P. Nadkarni, Use of General-purpose Negation Detection to Augment Concept In-dexing of Medical Documents: a Quantitative Studyusing the UMLS.
JAMIA, 2001, 8(6), pp.
598-609.Nakov, P., 2003.
BulStem: Design and Evaluationof Inflectional Stemmer for Bulgarian.
In Proc.
ofWorkshop on Balkan Language Resources and Tools(1st Balkan Conference in Informatics), Thessaloniki,Greece, November, 2003.Savova G., P. Ogren, P. Duffy, J. Buntrock, C. Chute,2008.
Mayo Clinic NLP System for Patient SmokingStatus Identification JAMIA, 2008, 15(1), pp.
25-28.Visa, S., A. Ralescu, M. Ionescu, 2007.
InvestigatingLearning Methods for Binary Data In Proc.
Fuzzy In-formation Processing Society, 2007.
NAFIPS ?07.
An-nual Meeting of the North American June 2007, pp.441-445Project EVTIMA ?
?Effective search of conceptual in-formation with applications in medical informatics?,http://www.lml.bas.bg/evtima28
