T1: 100 Things You Always Wanted to Knowabout Linguistics But Were Afraid to Ask**... for fear of being told 1000 moreEmily M. BenderABSTRACTMany NLP tasks have at their core a subtask of extracting the dependencies---who didwhat to whom---from natural language sentences.
This task can be understood as theinverse of the problem solved in different ways by diverse human languages, namely,how to indicate the relationship between different parts of a sentence.
Understandinghow languages solve the problem can be extremely useful in both feature design anderror analysis in the application of machine learning to NLP.
Likewise, understandingcross-linguistic variation can be important for the design of MT systems and othermultilingual applications.
The purpose of this tutorial is to present in a succinct andaccessible fashion information about the structure of human languages that can beuseful in creating more linguistically sophisticated, more language independent, andthus more successful NLP systems.While many kinds of linguistic structure can be relevant to different NLP tasks, the focusof this tutorial will be on morphosyntax.
The tutorial will take an explicitly typologicalperspective as an understanding of cross-linguistic variation can facilitate the design ofmore portable (language-independent) NLP systems.
In order to help participants retainthe information better, the tutorial will be structured interactively.
I will ask participantsfor examples of tasks and data sets they work with, and then as a group we willbrainstorm ways in which each of the linguistic properties discussed can related tofeature design and/or error analysis for those tasks.OUTLINE1.
Introduction:Overview of tutorial, elicitation of examples of tasks and data sets2.
Morphology:Morphophonology and morphosyntax, the range of morphological processesfound in the world's languages, what can be expressed through morphology3.
Basic Syntax:Part of speech and grammatical functions in cross-linguistic perspective,syntactic phenomena which can obscure the relationship between syntactic andsemantic roles4.
Syntactic Complications:Phenomena beyond simple clauses, including long-distance dependencies,clausal modification, semantically empty function words, argument drop5.
Resources:Where to go to find out more, what to expect from morphological analyzers,dependency parsers and precision grammarsBIOEmily M. BenderDepartment of LinguisticsUniversity of WashingtonEmail: ebender@uw.eduEmily M. Bender is an Associate Professor in the Department of Linguistics and AdjunctAssociate Professor in the Department of Computer Science & Engineering at theUniversity of Washington.
Her primary research interests lie in multilingual grammarengineering and the incorporation of linguistic knowledge, especially from linguistictypology, in NLP.
She is the PI of the Grammar Matrix project, which is developed in thecontext of the DELPH-IN Consortium (Deep Linguistic Processing with HPSG Initiative).More generally, she is interested in the intersection of linguistics and computationallinguistics, from both directions: bringing computational methodologies to linguisticscience and linguistic science to natural language processing.Her PhD (in Linguistics) is from Stanford University.
She has authored or co-authoredpapers in Linguistic Issues in Language Technology, the Journal of Research onLanguage and Computation, English Language and Linguistics, the Encyclopedia ofLanguage and Linguistics, and the proceedings of ACL, COLING, IJCNLP andassociated workshops.
