Proceedings of the NAACL-HLT 2012: Demonstration Session, pages 5?8,Montre?al, Canada, June 3-8, 2012. c?2012 Association for Computational LinguisticsA Graphical User Interface for Feature-Based Opinion MiningPedro Balage FilhoUniversity of Wolverhamptonpedrobalage@gmail.comCaroline BrunXerox Research Centre EuropeCaroline.Brun@xrce.xerox.comGilbert RondeauXerox Research Centre EuropeGilbert.Rondeau@xrce.xerox.comAbstractIn this paper, we present XOpin, a graphicaluser interface that have been developed toprovide a smart access to the results of afeature-based opinion detection system, buildon top of a parser.1 IntroductionOpinion mining (or sentiment analysis) arousesgreat interest in recent years both in academia andindustry.
Very broadly, sentiment analysis aims todetect the attitude of a person toward a specifictopic expressed in natural language and to evaluatethe polarity of what is been expressed, i.e., whetherit is positive or negative.
With the emergence ofthe Web 2.0, i.e., forums, blogs, web sitescompiling consumer reviews on various subjects,there is a huge amount of documents containinginformation expressing opinions: the ?usergenerated content?.
This constitutes a veryimportant data source for monitoring variousapplications (business intelligence, product andservice benchmarking, technology watch).Numerous research works at the crossroads of NLPand data mining are focusing on the problem ofopinion detection and mining.
In this paper, wepresent the advanced research prototype we havedesigned: it consists in an integration of a feature-based opinion detection system together with agraphical user interface providing to the end-user asmart access to the results of the opinion detection.We first present an overview of sentimentanalysis.
Then, we detail the system we havedeveloped, in particular the graphical userinterface, and conclude.2 Analyzing Sentiment in TextsSentiment Analysis plays a very important role tohelp people to find better products or to compareproduct characteristics.
For the consumer, a goodinterface allows to navigate, compare and identifythe main characteristics of the products orcompanies.
For the company, it is interesting toknow the customer preferences.
It is an essentialstep to optimize marketing campaigns and todevelop new features in products.Despite the increase of interest in sentimentanalysis, many tools do not pay much attention tothe user interface aspects.
These aspects are veryimportant in order to satisfy the user needs.In the literature, we find some different ways toaggregate and represent the summary informationfrom a collection of texts annotated with sentiment.For instance, Gamon et al (2005) use colors todisplay the general assessment of product features.The system shows the reviews as boxes, where thebox size indicates the number of mentions of thattopic and the color indicates the average sentimentit contains.
This interface allows having a quickglance about the most important topics and thesentiment expressed.Another display idea is presented in theOpinion Observer (Liu et al, 2005).
In this system,a bar shows the polarity related with each productand each feature.
The portions of the bar above andbelow a horizontal line represent the amount ofpositive and negative reviews.
For example, in acell phone domain, the sentiment associated withfeatures like LCD, battery, reception and speakerare used to compare the relevance of one productin opposite to another.Morinaga et al (2002) present an interfacewhere the sentiment information is represented bythe degrees of association between products andopinion-indicative terms.
The author uses principalcomponent analysis to produce a two-dimensionalvisualization where the terms and products areplotted indicating the relatedness among the points.In the internet, we can find many systems andcompanies related with sentiment analysis.
Forexample, the company Lexalytics has in its website5an available demo1  for sentiment detection.
Thisdemo shows an interface which highlights positiveand negative words in the text.
The interface alsoshows entities, categories associated, a summaryand the top terms.The RankSpeed 2  is a website for productcomparison.
The website includes in the search thesentiment associated with each product.
In theinterface, the user can input a list of sentimentwords, like ?excellent?, ?cool?, ?easy?
or?powerful?
that the system will organize the resultsaccording the frequency of those words in reviewsrelated to the products.The Stock Sonar3  has a timeline chart as themain interface.
In this timeline, both positive andnegative sentiments are displayed throughout time.The sentiments are retrieved from real-time newsassociated with a particular company.
In the sametimeline, it is possible to follow-up the increase ordecrease of the stock prices for that company inthat period of time.
In this application, thesentiment is used to forecast market actions such asbuy and sell stocks.All those systems presented relevantcomponents for a powerful opinion mininginterface, but none of them deliver a full interfaceto explore the multi-aspects in opinion mining.
Forus, a complete system should provide both singleand multi-document visualization, work on thefeature level classification, and produce anintegrated interface to browse, navigate, filter andvisualize files, features and sentiment tendencies.In the following section, we present XOpin, agraphical user interface that have been developedto provide the characteristics described.3 The System and its InterfaceTo detect opinions in texts, our system relies on arobust incremental parser, XIP, (Ait-Mokhtar andChanod 2002), specifically adapted for opiniondetection.
The system extracts opinions related tothe main concepts commented in reviews (e.g.products, movies, books...), but also on featuresassociated to these products (such as certaincharacteristics of the products, their price,associated services, etc...).
More precisely, weadopt the formal representation of an opinion1http://www.lexalytics.com/webdemo2http://www.rankspeed.com/3http://www.thestocksonar.com/proposed by Liu (2010): an opinion is representedas a five place predicate of the form?o?,f?
?, so???
?, h?, t??
, where:o?
is the target of theopinion (the main concept), f??
is a featureassociated to the object o?, 	so????
is the value(positive or negative) of the opinion expressed bythe opinion holder h?
about the feature f?
?, h?
is theopinion holder, t?
is the time when the opinion isexpressed.We use the robust parser to extract, using syntacticrelations already extracted by a generaldependency grammar, semantic relationsinstantiating this model.
Other systems usesyntactic dependencies to link source and target ofthe opinion, for example in Kim and Hovy (2006).Our system belongs to this family, as we believethat syntactic processing of complex phenomena(negation, comparison and anaphora) is anecessary step to perform feature-based opinionmining.
Another specificity of our system is a twolevel architecture based on a generic level,applicable to any domain, and on a domain-dependent level, adapted for each sub-domain ofapplication.
Regarding evaluation, the relations ofopinion extracted by the system have been used totrain a SVM classifier in order to assess thesystem?s ability to correctly classify user?s reviewsas positive or negative.
Results are quite satisfying,as they show 93% of accuracy to classify reviewsabout printers and 89% of accuracy to classifyreviews about movies (Brun, 2011).The XOpin Interface was developed to providean easy way to allow the user to explore the resultsof this sentiment analysis system.
The interfaceprovides a graphical environment that allows theuser to browse, navigate, filter and visualize thenecessary information in a collection of texts.The tool accepts as input pure text files or xmlfiles.
The xml files follow a specific format whichallows the system to retrieve metadata information.It is also possible to retrieve web pages from theweb.
The tool offers the possibility to retrieve asingle webpage, given the URL, or a collection ofpages by crawling.
To crawl, for example, reviewswebpages, the user need to setup some crawlingand information extraction rules defined by atemplate in the configuration file.
The filesretrieved from the web are converted in xmlformat, which allows preserving the metadatainformation.
As an example, Figure 1 shows the6organization of this xml file from a reviewretrieved from the website epinions.com(http://www.epinions.com).Figure 1.
Organization of the XML fileThe tag source keeps the URL from where thereview was extracted.
The tags domain, brand andproduct keep the specific data about to the product.The tag opinion_holder keeps the name of the userwho wrote the review.
The tag review_date keepsthe date when the review was written.
The tagopinion keeps the user general assessment aboutthe product.
In the website epinions.com, the usercan assess the product as recommended (Yes) ornot recommended (No).
The tag review_starscontains the number of stars the user attributed tothe product.
The tag review_popularity keeps thenumber of positive evaluations (thumbsUp) of thisparticular review by the other users.
In the reviewsfrom the website epinions.com we don?t have thisassessment, so this number represents how manyusers assigned to trust in this reviewer.
The tagstextblock contain the text for the sections title,summary and review.After loading a file or a corpus into the tool, thetexts are showed in a tree structure in the leftpanel.
A hierarchical structure allows the user tohave the corpus organized as a conventional folderstructure.
In this way, it is possible to analyze thetexts inside a specific folder and also to include thetexts in the subfolders inside.To analyze this data, the tool presents threemain views: text, timeline and comparison.
In thetext view, negative terms, positive terms andentities present in the text are highlighted.
Thepurpose of this view is to provide a visualassessment about the sentiment expressed in thetext.
If the text was loaded by crawling or by anxml file, the metadata is also displayed.
Figure 2shows an example of reviews collected from thewebsite epinions.com, in the category printers.As said before, XOpin is able to identify thepredicates associated with each sentiment and thecategory it belongs.
For example, in the sentence?This printer gives excellent quality color?, thetool highlights the positive sentiment ?excellent?,the predicate associated ?color?
and organize thispredicate into the category color.
This predicatecategorization depends of the sub-domainarchitecture level.This classification is very important to presentan organized summary about which category ismost positive and with is most negative in the text.The right panel shows this information.Figure 2.
Text visualization in XOpinThe timeline screen (Figure 3) offers the userthe option to analyze a corpus of texts organizedby time, for example, reviews crawled from theweb.
In this way, the user can create flexible andinteresting views about the products and featuresfound in the corpus.The timeline shows the total of positive andnegative words in the texts for a given date.
Withthis information and a larger enough corpus ofreviews it is possible to have a big picture aboutthe user preferences and dissatisfactions.The timeline also offers the possibility to showthe positive and negative lines for specific brands,<review><source value="http://..." /><domain value="Printers"/><brand value="Hewlett Packard"/><product value=" Hewlett Packard 6500A"/><opinion_holder value="user_name"/><review_date value="01/Dec/2011"/><opinion value="Yes"/><review_stars value="5"/><review_popularity value="10"/><textblock layout="title">Review Title</textblock><textblock layout="summary">Review Summary</textblock><textblock layout="text">Review Free Comment</textblock></review>7products and features in a determined timespan.Filters can remove anything that it is not useful andcreate a pure visualization about what the userneed to see.
The left and bottom panels offeroptions to create those views.These views can show an evolution in theuser?s perspective in respect to some newimprovement in the product.
For example, in amarketing campaign, the company can evaluate theuser behavior about the product price.Figure 3.
Timeline visualization in XOpinThe comparison view (Figure 4) allows the userto compare side by side different product featuresin a collection of texts.
In this view, the user hasthe main predicate associated with each feature andthe number of positive or negative occurrences.This is interesting in order to have a big pictureabout what the users are commenting in positive ornegative aspects for each feature.Figure 4.
Feature Comparison in XOpin4 ConclusionThis paper presents an NLP-based opinionmining advanced prototype integrating a dedicatedgraphical user interface which provides a smartaccess to the results of the opinion detection.
Theinterface has been build in order to ensureadvanced functionalities such as opinionhighlighting on text and features, timelinevisualization and feature comparison.
The systemhas been demonstrated to potential customers andit received a good feedback.
In our assessment, theintegrated features provided by the systemincreased the usability in the data exploration for areviews corpus compared against other products.ReferencesSalah Ait-Mokthar, Jean-Pierre Chanod.
Robustnessbeyond Shallowness: Incremental DependencyParsing.
Special Issue of NLE Journal, 2002.Caroline Brun.
Detecting Opinions Using DeepSyntactic Analysis.
In Proceedings of the RecentAdvances in Natural Language Processing (RANLP),Hissar, Bulgaria, September 12-14, 2011.Michael Gamon, Anthony Aue, Simon Corston-Oliver,and Eric Ringger.
Pulse: Mining customer opinionsfrom free text.
In Proceedings of the InternationalSymposium on Intelligent Data Analysis (IDA),number 3646 in Lecture Notes in Computer Science,pages 121?132, 2005.Kim, S.M.
and E.H. Hovy.
Identifying and AnalyzingJudgment Opinions.
Proceedings of the HumanLanguage Technology/HLT-NAACL.
New York,2006.Bing Liu, Minqing Hu, and Junsheng Cheng.
Opinionobserver: Analyzing and comparing opinions on theweb.
In Proceedings of WWW, 2005.Bing Liu.
Sentiment Analysis and Subjectivity, Chapterof Handbook of Natural Language Processing, 2ndedition, 2010.Satoshi Morinaga, Kenji Yamanishi, Kenji Tateishi, andToshikazu Fukushima.Mining product reputations onthe web.
In Proceedings of the ACM SIGKDDConference on Knowledge Discovery and DataMining (KDD), pages 341?349, 2002.8
