T3: Arabic Dialect Processing TutorialMona Diab, Nizar HabashABSTRACTThe existence of dialects for any language constitutes a challenge for NLP in generalsince it adds another set of variation dimensions from a known standard.
The problem isparticularly interesting and challenging in Arabic and its different dialects, where thediversion from the standard could, in some linguistic views, warrant a classification asdifferent languages.
This problem would not be as pronounced if Modern StandardArabic (MSA) were the native language of some sub group of Arabic speakers, howeverit is not.
Any realistic and practical approach to processing Arabic will have to accountfor dialectal usage since it is so pervasive.
In this tutorial, we will attempt to highlightdifferent dialectal phenomena, how they migrate from the standard and why they posechallenges to NLP.
This area of research (dialects in general and Arabic dialects inparticular) is gaining a lot of interest.
For example, the DARPA-funded BOLT programstarting this year will only consider dialectal varieties for its effort on Arabic.Furthermore, there was a workshop on dialect processing as part of EMNLP 2011.This tutorial has four different parts: First, we contextualize the question of Arabicdialects from a sociolinguistic and political perspective.
Second, we present adiscussion of issues in relevant to Arabic NLP; this includes generic issues common toMSA and dialects, and MSA specific issues.
In the third part, we detail dialectallinguistic issues and contrast them to MSA issues.
In the last part, we review the state-of-the-art in Arabic dialect processing covering several enabling technologies andapplications, e.g., dialect identification, speech recognition, morphological processing(analysis, disambiguation, tokenization, POS tagging), parsing, and machine translation.Throughout the presentation we will make references to the different resourcesavailable and draw contrastive links with standard Arabic and English.
Moreover, we willdiscuss annotation standards as exemplified in the Treebank.
We will provide links torecent publications and available toolkits/resources for all four sections.This tutorial is designed for computer scientists and linguists alike.
No knowledge ofArabic is required (though, we recommend taking a look at Nizar Habash's Arabic NLPtutorialhttp://www1.ccls.columbia.edu/~cadim/presentations.html which will be reviewedas part of the tutorial.)OUTLINE1.
IntroductionIntroduction to the question of Arabic dialects from sociolinguistic and politicalperspectives (20 min)2.
General (Standard/Dialectal) Arabic linguistic issues and their relevance toNLPOrthography, Phonology, Morphology, Syntax (60 min)3.
Coffee Break(20 min)4.
Generic dialect issues from an NLP perspectiveOrthography, Phonology, Morphology, Syntax (40 min)5.
State-of-the-art in a sample of applications for Arabic dialectsSpeech recognition, Morphological processing, Parsing, Machine Translation (40min)BIOSMona Diab850 Interchurch Center MC 7717475 Riverside DriveNew York, NY 10115Office 212-870-1290, Fax 212-870-1285mdiab--AT--ccls.columbia.eduhttp://www1.ccls.columbia.edu/~mdiab/Mona Diab received her PhD in 2003 in the Linguistics department and UMIACS,University of Maryland College Park.
Her PhD work focused on lexical semantic issuesand was titled Word Sense Disambiguation within a Multilingual Framework.
Mona iscurrently a research scientist at the Center for Computational Learning Systems,Columbia University.
Her research includes work on word sense disambiguation,automatic acquisition of natural language resources such as dictionaries andtaxonomies, unsupervised learning methods, lexical semantics, cross languageknowledge induction from both parallel and comparable corpora, Arabic NLP in general,tools for processing Arabic(s), computational modeling of Arabic dialects, Arabicsyntactic and semantic parsing.Nizar Habash850 Interchurch Center MC 7717475 Riverside DriveNew York, NY 10115Office 212-870-1289, Fax 212-870-1285habash@ccls.columbia.eduhttp://www.nizarhabash.comNizar Habash received his PhD in 2003 from the Computer Science Department,University of Maryland College Park.
His Ph.D. thesis is titled Generation-Heavy HybridMachine Translation.
He is currently a research scientist at the Center forComputational Learning Systems in Columbia University.
His research includes work onmachine translation, natural language generation, lexical semantics, morphologicalanalysis, generation and disambiguation, computational modeling of Arabic dialects,and Arabic dialect parsing.
Nizar recently published a book entitled "Introduction toArabic Natural Language Processing".
