T6: Processing modality and negationRoser Morante, CLiPS - University of Antwerp, BelgiumABSTRACT1.1 Tutorial contentModality and negation are ubiquitous phenomena in language.
Generally speaking,modality is a grammatical category that allows to express aspects related to thespeaker's attitude towards her statements in terms of degree of certainty, reliability, andsubjectivity.
In this tutorial modality is understood in a broad sense, which involvesrelated concepts like subjectivity, hedging, evidentiality, uncertainty, committed belief,and factuality.
Negation is a grammatical category that allows to change the truth valueof a proposition.
Modality and negation are treated together because they areinterrelated phenomena and are protypically expressed by linguistic devices that sharesome formal characteristics.
For example, modality and negation cues function asoperators that scope over certain parts of the sentence.From a natural language processing perspective, a very relevant aspect of modality andnegation is that they encode extra-propositional aspects of meaning.
While traditionallymost research has focused on propositional aspects of meaning, the interest inprocessing extra-propositonal aspects has grown in recent years, as a naturalconsequence of the consolidation of areas that focus on the computational treatment ofpropositional aspects.
Given a sentence, researchers aim at going beyond determining'who/what does what to whom/what where and when', which would be the goal of atypical semantic role labeling or event extraction task, and are interested in finding alsofeatures such as the source, certainty level, epistemological type, truth value, andsubjective aspects of the statements contained in a text.
Additionally, researchers arealso interested in analysing discourse level phenomena such as finding contradictionsand textual entailments or modelling how the status of events changes throughout atext.
Modality and negation play a main role in these phenomena.That there is growing interest in these topics among the NLP community is reflected bya number of recent publications, the edition of the workshop 'Negation and Speculationin Natural Language Processing (NeSp-NLP 2010)', as well as the popularity of theCoNLL 2010 shared task on 'Learning to detect hedges and their scope in naturallanguage tex't and the future publication of a special issue of the journal ComputationalLinguistics.
Research on modality and negation has also been stimulated by the releaseof a number of data sets annotated with various types of information related to thesephenomena.This tutorial is divided in five modules.
In Module 1, I will introduce modality andnegation as devices that express extra-propositional aspects of meaning, I will definerelated concepts and I will show why it is interesting and complex to process them.
InModule 2, I will present different categorisation schemes and annotation efforts, as wellas an overview of existing resources.
In Module 3, I will describe how several relatedtasks have been modelled and solved.
I will present in detail the rule-based andmachine learning approaches that have been used to solve the tasks.
In Module 4, I willfocus on applications that have incorporated the treatment of modality and negation,and on research that analyses the impact of processing these phenomena.
Theapplications range from sentiment analysis to biomedical text mining.
Finally, in Module5, I will summarize achievements and point out open problems.1.2 Relevance for the ACL communityProcessing modality and negation is relevant for the ACL community because of severalreasons.
First, the treatment of modality and negation is very relevant for all NLPapplications that involve text understanding.
This includes applications that need todiscriminate between factual and non-factual information (uncertain facts, opinions,attitudes, emotions, and beliefs), like information extraction, opinion mining, sentimentanalysis, (biomedical) text mining, or question answering, as well as other applicationsthat process the meaning of texts, like recognizing textual entailment, paraphrasing, orsummarization.
Incorporating information about modality and negation has been shownto be useful for a number of applications, such as biomedical text processing (Friedmanet al, 1994; Di Marco and Mercer, 2005; Mutalik et al, 2001; Chapman et al, 2001),opinion mining and sentiment analysis (Wilson et al, 2005a), recognizing textualentailment (Marneffe et al, 2006; Snow et al, 2006), and automatic style checking(Ganter and Strube, 2009).
Hence this topic is of general importance to the NLPcommunity as a whole, as evidenced by the fact that a number of researchers andgroups are currently working on this phenomena.Second, this topic has received a noticeable boost from several recent events: theworkshop Negation and Speculation in Natural Language Processing (NeSp-NLP2010), which I co-organized in Uppsala just before ACL 2010; the CoNLL Shared Task2010 on Learning to detect hedges and their scope in natural language text, whichattracted 51 submissions from 23 teams; and the publication of the Special Issue onModality and Negation by the journal Computational Linguistics, that will appear at theend of 2011.
This SI has received a considerable number of submissions, which showsthat the community is active in treating these phenomena.
Research on modality andnegation is also supported by the fact that a number of data sets annotated with variousaspects of modality and negation information have been made available, such as theMPQA Opinion Corpus (Wiebe et al, 2005), Rubin??
?s (2006; 2007) certainty corpus,the ACE 2008 corpus (Linguistic Data Consortium, 2008), and the FactBank corpus(2009), the BioScope corpus (Vincze et al, 2008).Given that there is clearly substantial interest in this topic from the ACL community andgiven that the research on this area is evolving quickly, I believe that the proposedtutorial will help attendees to keep up to date with recent advances in the field anddiscover new directions for future research.OUTLINE1.
Introduction: modality and negation as extra-propositional aspects ofmeaning1.
Defining modality2.
Concepts related to modality: hedging, evidentiality, uncertainty, factuality,subjectivity, non-committed belief3.
Defining negation4.
Negation versus negative polarity5.
Why is it interesting to process modality and negation?6.
Complex aspects of processing modality and negation2.
Categorising and annotating negation and modality1.
Annotation schemes2.
Existing resources3.
Future directions3.
Tasks related to processing modality and negation1.
Cue detection2.
Detecting speculated sentences3.
Scope resolution4.
Finding negated/speculated events5.
Modality tagging6.
Belief categorisation7.
Processing contradiction and contrast8.
Incorporating negation/modality in parsers4.
Modality and negation in applications1.
Sentiment analysis2.
Recognizing textual entailment3.
Machine translation4.
Text mining5.
Open problems and discussionBIORoser MoranteComputational Linguistics and Psycholinguistics (CLiPS) Research CenterUniversity of AntwerpEmail: roser.morante --AT-- ua dot ac dot behttp://www.clips.ua.ac.be/~roser/Dr.
Roser Morante is a senior researcher at CLiPS, a research center associated withthe Linguistics Department of the Faculty of Arts at the University of Antwerp, Belgium.She obtained her PhD in Computational Linguistics at the University of Tilburg, TheNetherlands, where she also worked as a postdoctoral researcher.
She is currentlyworking on the Biograph project led by Professor Walter Daelemans, where she appliestext mining techniques to extract biomedical relations from scientific texts.
In the projectshe has worked extensively on both modality and negation.
She proposed the firstmodel of the scope finding task as a machine learning classification task and hasdeveloped systems for finding the scope of negation and hedge cues.
The system thather team submitted to the CoNLL Shared Task 2010 scored first in Task 2 on finding thescope of hedge cues.
She has co-oganized the Workshop on Negation and Speculationin Natural Language Processing (NeSp-NLP 2010) and she is currently a Guest Editorof the Special Issue on Modality and Negation for the journal Computational Linguistics.She has also been involved in the organization of the Workshop Advances on Bio TextMining 2010, the SemEval 2010 shared task on Linking Events and Their Participants inDiscourse, and the evaluation exercise Processing modality and negation for machinereading, a pilot task of the Question Answering for Machine Reading Evaluation atCLEF 2011.My research interests revolve around applying supervised machine learning techniquesto semantics oriented natural language processing tasks at sentence and documentlevel, like semantic role labeling, relation extraction, coreference resolution,paraphrasing, or textual entailment.
In the past I have worked on machine translation,dialogue systems and semantic role labeling.
At this moment I am working mostly onbiomedical text mining: processing negation and modality, extraction of biomedicalevents, extraction of protein-protein interactions, semantic role labeling, andcoreference resolution.
