2012 Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics: Human Language Technologies, pages 191?199,Montre?al, Canada, June 3-8, 2012. c?2012 Association for Computational LinguisticsA Dependency Treebank of Classical Chinese PoemsJohn Lee and Yin Hei KongThe Halliday Centre for Intelligent Applications of Language StudiesDepartment of Chinese, Translation and LinguisticsCity University of Hong Kong{jsylee,yhkong}@cityu.edu.hkAbstractAs interest grows in the use of linguisticallyannotated corpora in research and teaching offoreign languages and literature, treebanks ofvarious historical texts have been developed.We introduce the first large-scale dependencytreebank for Classical Chinese literature.
De-rived from the Stanford dependency types, itconsists of over 32K characters drawn from acollection of poems written in the 8th centuryCE.
We report on the design of new depend-ency relations, discuss aspects of the annota-tion process and evaluation, and illustrate itsuse in a study of parallelism in Classical Chi-nese poetry.1 IntroductionRecent efforts in creating linguistically annotatedtext corpora have overwhelmingly focused onmodern languages.
Among the earliest and mostwell-known are the part-of-speech (POS) taggedBrown Corpus (Francis & Ku?era, 1982), and thesyntactically analyzed Penn Treebank (Marcus etal., 1993).
However, the first digital corpus, whichemerged soon after the invention of computers, hadas its subject matter a collection of 13th-centurytexts --- in 1949, Roberto Busa initiated the POStagging of the complete works of Thomas Aquinas,written in Latin.In the past decade, Humanities scholars havebegun to use digital corpora for the study of an-cient languages and historical texts.
They come ina variety of languages and genres, from Old Eng-lish (Taylor et al, 2003) to Early New High Ger-man (Demske et al, 2004) and Medieval Portu-guese (Rocio et al 2000); and from poetry(Pintzuk & Leendert, 2001) to religious texts suchas the New Testament (Haug & J?hndal, 2008) andthe Quran (Dukes & Buckwalter, 2010).
They areincreasingly being leveraged in teaching (Crane etal., 2009) and in research (Lancaster, 2010).This paper describes the first large-scale de-pendency treebank for Classical Chinese.
Thetreebank consists of poems from the Tang Dynasty(618 ?
907 CE), considered one of the crowningachievements in traditional Chinese literature.
Thefirst half of the paper reviews related work (section2), then describes the design of the treebank (sec-tion 3), its text and evaluation (section 4).
Thesecond half shows the research potentials of thistreebank with a study on parallelism in (section 5).2 Previous WorkExisting linguistic resources for Chinese is pre-dominantly for the modern language.
This sectionfirst describes the major Modern Chinese treebankson which we based our work (section 2.1), thensummarizes previous research in word segmenta-tion and POS tagging, two pre-requisites for build-ing a Classical Chinese treebank (section 2.2).2.1 Modern ChineseMost treebanks have been annotated under one oftwo grammatical theories, the phrase structuregrammar, which is adopted by the Penn Treebank(Marcus et al, 1993), or dependency grammar,adopted by the Prague Dependency Treebank191(Hajic, 1998).
The most widely used treebank forModern Chinese, the Penn Chinese Treebank (Xueet al, 2005), belongs to the former kind.Rather than encoding constituency information,dependency grammars give information aboutgrammatical relations between words.
ModernChinese has been analyzed in this framework, forexample at Stanford University (Chang et al,2009).
The dependency relations follow the designprinciples of those initially applied to English (deMarneffe and Manning, 2008), with a few addedrelations to accommodate Chinese-specific fea-tures, such as the ?ba?-construction.
Their POStagset is borrowed from that of the Penn ChineseTreebank.2.2 Classical ChineseLike its modern counterpart, two pre-requisites forconstructing a Classical Chinese treebank are wordsegmentation and part-of-speech tagging.
In thissection, we first summarize existing POS taggingframeworks, then describe the only current tree-bank of Classical Chinese.Word boundaries and parts-of-speech tags havebeen added to the Academia Sinica Ancient Chi-nese Corpus (Wei et al, 1997) and the SheffieldCorpus of Chinese (Hu et al, 2005).
Since there isnot yet a scholarly consensus on word segmenta-tion in Chinese (Feng 1998), it is not surprisingthat there are wide-ranging levels of granularity ofthe POS tagsets.
They range from 21 tags in(Huang et al, 2002), 26 in the Peking Universitycorpus (Yu et al, 2002), 46 in the Academia Sini-ca Balanced Corpus (Chen et al, 1996), to 111 inthe Sheffield Corpus of Chinese (Hu et al, 2005).This treebank uses a system of nested POS tags(Lee, 2012), which accommodates different poli-cies for word segmentation and maximize interop-erability between corpora.The only previous syntactic treebank for Classi-cal Chinese is a constituent-based one (Huang etal., 2002), composed of 1000 sentences from pre-Tsin Classical Chinese.
No word segmentation wasperformed for this treebank.3 Treebank designAlthough Classical Chinese is not mutually intelli-gible with Modern Chinese, the two share consid-erable similarities in vocabulary and grammar.Given the seminal work already achieved for Mod-ern Chinese, our principle is to borrow from exist-ing annotation framework as much as possible.
Forexample, our POS tagset is based on that of thePenn Chinese Treebank, after a slight revision ofits 33 tags (Lee, 2012).
This approach not onlygives users a familiar point of reference, and alsomakes the treebank interoperable with existingModern Chinese resources.
Interoperability allowsthe potential of bootstrapping with Modern Chi-nese data, as well as contrastive studies for the twolanguages.Figure 1.
Dependency trees of two adjacent 5-characterlines (forming a parallel couplet)1.
The POS tags arebased on (Xue et al, 2005); the dependency relations on(Chang et al, 2009).
The two lines are perfectly paral-lel both in terms of POS and dependencies.A dependency framework is chosen for two rea-sons.
First, words in Classical Chinese poems, ourtarget text (section 4), tend to have relatively freeword order.
Dependency grammars can handlethis phenomenon well.
Second, our treebank isexpected to be used pedagogically, and we expectexplicit grammatical relations between words to behelpful to students.
These relations also encode1 From Wang Wei ??????????????????????
?
?
?
??far?
?hear?
?phoenix?
?call?
?make noise?
[I] hear from afar the call of the phoenix making noise.?
?
?
?
??faint?
?sense?
?dragon?
?carriage?
?come?
[I] faintly sense the dragon-decorated carriage coming.192semantic information, which lend themselves tomeaning extraction applications.Our set of dependency relations is based onthose developed at Stanford University for ModernChinese (see section 2.2).
Our approach is to maptheir 44 dependency relations, as much as possible,to Classical Chinese.
Modern Chinese, a non-inflectional language, does not mark many linguis-tic features, including person, gender, and number,etc.
It uses a small number of function words toencode other features, such as tense, voice, andcase.
Many of these function words do not exist inClassical Chinese.
In particular, prepositions arerare 2 ; instead, nouns expressing time, locations,instruments, indirect recipients, etc., modify theverb directly.
This phenomenon prompted the in-troduction of two new relations ?locative modifi-ers?
(section 3.1) and ?oblique objects?
(section3.2); and the re-instatement of two relations, ?nounphrases as adverbial modifiers?
(section 3.3) and?indirect objects?, from the Stanford dependencies(de Marneffe and Manning, 2008) that are exclud-ed from the Modern Chinese variant (Chang et al,2009) .
An overview is provided in Table 1.Table 1.
Comparison of our set of dependency relationswith the Stanford dependencies for English (de Marnef-fe and Manning, 2008) and for Modern Chinese (Changet al, 2009).
All other relations from Stanford ModernChinese are retained and are not listed here.3.1 Locative modifiersTo indicate time, English usually requires a prepo-sition (e.g., ?on Monday?
), but sometimes does not2 Classical Chinese has a category of verbs called ?coverbs?which function like prepositions, but are less frequently used.
(Pulleyblank, 1995).
(e.g., ?today?).
For the latter case, the bare nounphrase is considered a ?temporal modifier?
in atmod relation with the verb in (de Marneffe andManning, 2008).Similarly, to indicate locations, a preposition isnormally required in English (e.g., ?on the hill?
).However, in Classical Chinese, the preposition isfrequently omitted, with the bare locative nounphrase modifying the verb directly.
To mark thesenouns, we created the ?locative modifier?
relation(lmod).
Consider sentence (1) in Table 2.
Alt-hough the word ?hill?
occupies the position nor-mally reserved for the subject, it actually indicatesa location, and is therefore assigned the lmod rela-tion.
In sentence (2), the locative noun ?alley?
isplaced after the verb.3.2 Oblique objectsOblique objects are a well-known category in theanalysis of ancient Indo-European languages, forexample Latin and ancient Greek.
In the PROIELtreebank (Haug and J?hndal, 2008), for example,the ?oblique?
(obl) relation marks arguments ofthe verb which are not subjects or non-accusative?objects?.
These are most commonly nouns in thedative or ablative case, as well as prepositionalphrases.
It is believed that oblique objects exist inClassical Chinese, but have been replaced by prep-ositional phrases in Modern Chinese (Li and Li,1986).The obl relation is imported to our treebank tomark nouns that directly modify a verb to expressmeans, instrument, and respect, similar to the func-tions of datives and ablatives.
They typically comeafter the verb.
In sentence (6) in Table 2, the noun?cup?
is used in an instrumental sense to modify?drunk?
in an obl relation.3.3 Noun phrase as adverbial modifierA temporal modifier such as ?today?
is an examplewhere a noun phrase serves as an adverbial modifi-er in English.
This usage is more general and ex-tends to other categories such as floating reflexives(e.g., it is itself adequate), and other PP-like NPs(e.g., two times a day).
These noun phrases aremarked with the relation npadvmod in (de Marn-effe and Manning, 2008).Dependency StanfordEnglishStanfordModernChineseThispaperDirect object (dobj) ?
?
?Indirect object (iobj) ?
?Locative modifier (lmod)   ?Noun phrase as adverbialmodifier (npadvmod)?
?Oblique objects (obl)   ?Concessive, temporal,conditional, and causalmodifier (conc, temp,cond, caus)?193Table 2.
Example sentences  illustrating the use of thedependency relations lmod (locative modifier), iobj(indirect object), npadvmod (noun phrase as adverbialmodifier), and obl (oblique object)3.In Modern Chinese, this usage is less frequent4,perhaps leading to its exclusion in (Chang et al,2009).
In contrast, in Classical Chinese, nounsfunction much more frequently in this capacity,expressing metaphoric meaning, reasons, moods,3 The verses are from Wang Wei ???????
?, ???????
; Meng Haoran ????????
?, ??????
?, ????????,???????????
?.4 Mostly restricted to temporal and location modifiers.repetitions, etc., and typically preceding the verb(Li and Li, 1986).
Sentences (4) and (5) in Table 2provide examples of this kind, with the noun ?self?as a reflexive, and the noun ?year?
indicating repe-tition.3.4 Indirect objectsThe double object construction contains two ob-jects in a verb phrase.
The direct object is thething or person that is being transferred or moved(e.g., ?he gave me a book?
); the indirect object isthe recipient (?he gave me a book?).
In inflectedlanguages, the noun representing the indirect ob-ject may be marked by case.
Since Classical Chi-nese does not have this linguistic device, theindirect object is unmarked; we distinguish it withthe ?indirect object?
label (iobj).The iobj label exists in Stanford English de-pendencies (de Marneffe and Manning, 2008), butwas not included in the Modern Chinese version(Chang et al, 2009), likely due to its infrequentappearance in Modern Chinese.
It is re-instated inour Classical Chinese treebank.
Sentence (3) inTable 2 provides an example, with ?word?
as thedirect object and ?person?
as the indirect.3.5 Absence of copular verbsIn a copular construction such as ?A is B?, A isconsidered the ?topic?
(top) of the copular verb?is?
(Chang et al, 2009).
The copular, however, israrely used in Classical Chinese (Pulleyblank,1995).
In some cases, it is replaced by an adverbthat functions as a copular verb.
If so, that adverbis POS-tagged as such (VC) in our treebank, andthe dependency tree structure is otherwise normal.In other cases, the copular is absent altogether.Rather than inserting implicit nodes as in (Haugand J?hndal, 2008), we expand the usage of thetop relation.
It usually connects the subject (?A?
)to the copular, but would in this case connect itwith the noun predicate (?B?)
instead.
In the ex-ample sentence below, the relation top(?capable?,?general?)
would be assigned.Locative modifier?
?
?
???thousand?
?hill?
?make sound?
?bird?
(1) Birds are singing on a thousand hills.lmod(?make sound?, ?hill?)?
?
?
?
??five?
?horse?
?scare?
?end?
?alley?
(2) Five horses are scared at the end of the alley.lmod(?scare?, ?alley?
)Indirect Objects?
?
?
?
??send?
?word?
?edge?
?region?
?person?
(3) [I] send a word to the person at the frontier.iobj(?send?, ?person?
)Noun phrase as adverbial modifier?
?
?
???scene?
?thing?
?self?
?natural, unrestrained?
(4) The scenes are being natural and unrestrained inthemselves.npadvmod(?natural?, ?self?)?
?
?
?
??year?
?year?
?Liang?
?Fu?
?song?
(5) [He sings] the Liangfu Song year after year.npadvmod(?song?, ?year?
)Oblique objects?
?
?
?
??together?
?drunk?
?chrysan-themus??flower?
?cup?
(6) [We] get drunk together with the chrysanthemuscup.obl(?drunk?, ?cup?)??
?
?
??general?
?weapon?
?warehouse?
?capable?The general [is] a capable manager of the arsenal5.1943.6 Discourse relationsTwo clauses may be connected by a discourse rela-tion, such as causal or temporal.
In English, theserelations may be explicitly realized, most common-ly by discourse connectives, such as ?because?
or?when?.
Even in the absence of these connectives,however, two adjacent clauses can still hold animplicit discourse relation.
A detailed study, whichresulted in the Penn Discourse Treebank (Prasad etal., 2008), found that explicit relations outnumberimplicit ones in English, but the latter is nonethe-less quite common and can be annotated with highinter-annotator agreement.Table 3.
Example sentences illustrating the use of dis-course labels for discourse relations6.In many ancient languages, explicit realizationof discourse relations is less frequent.
In Latin andAncient Greek, for instance, these connectives areoften replaced by a participial clause.
The partici-ple is marked only by the genitive or ablative case,leaving the reader to decide from context how itrelates to the main clause.
As a non-inflectionallanguage, Classical Chinese cannot use this device,and instead typically constructs a complex sen-tence with a series of verbs without any marking(Pulleyblank, 1995).
For example, sentence (2) in5 From Meng Haoran ?????????
?6 From top to bottom, Meng Haoran ???????,??????
?, and Du Fu  ??????
?Table 3 literally says ?not capable, good ruler for-sake?
; the onus is put on the reader to interpret thefirst two characters to form a clause that providesthe reason for the rest of the line.This condensed style of expression often erects abarrier for understanding.
Although the focus ofthe treebank is on syntax rather than discourse, wedecided to annotate these relations.
Implicit con-nectives are more difficult to achieve inter-annotator agreement (Prasad et al, 2008); sincethey are mostly implicit in Classical Chinese, weadopted a coarse-grained classification system,rather than the hierarchical system of sense tags inthe Penn Discourse Treebank.
More precisely, itcontains only the four categories posited by(Wang, 2003) --- causal, concessive, temporal, andconditional.
Table 3 gives some examples.When it is impossible to determine the discourserelation between two lines, the default ?dependent?
(dep) label is assigned.
This label is originallyused when ?the system is unable to determine amore precise dependency relation between twowords?
(de Marneffe and Manning, 2008).4 DataAmong the various literary genres, poetry enjoysperhaps the most elevated status in the ClassicalChinese tradition.
The Tang Dynasty is consideredthe golden age of shi, one of the five subgenres ofChinese poetry7.
The Complete Shi Poetry of theTang (Peng, 1960), originally compiled in 1705,consists of nearly 50,000 poems by more than twothousand poets.
This book is treasured by scholarsand the public alike.
Even today, Chinese peopleinformally compose couplets (see section 5), in thestyle of shi poetry, to celebrate special occasionssuch as birthdays.
Indeed, NLP techniques havebeen applied to generate them automatically (Jiangand Zhou, 2008).4.1 MaterialThis treebank contains the complete works, a totalof over 32,000 characters in 521 poems, by twoChinese poets in the 8th century CE, Wang Wei andMeng Haoran.
Wang, also known as the Poet-Buddha (shifo ??
), is considered one of the threemost prominent Tang poets.
Meng is often asso-7 The other four genres are ci, fu, qu, and sao.Temporal relation?
?
?
?
??be?
?child?
?remember?
?gather?
?sand?
(1) [When I] was a child, [I] remember [playing] agame with sand.dep-temp(?remember?, ?be?
)Causal relation?
?
?
?
??not?
?capable?
?good?
?ruler?
?forsake?
(2) The good ruler does not appoint me [as an official],[because] I am not capable.dep-caus(?forsake?, ?capable?
)Concessive relation?
?
?
?
??country?
?broken?
?mountain?
?river?
?exist?
(3) [Although] the country is broken, the mountainsand the rivers still stay.dep-conc(?exist?, ?broken?
)195ciated with Wang due to the similarity of his po-ems in style and content.Aside from the dependency relations, wordboundaries and POS tags, the treebank contains anumber of metadata.
For each character, the toneis noted as either level (ping?)
or oblique (ze ?
).Each poem is also recorded for its title, author, andgenre, which may be ?recent-style?
(jintishi ???)
or ?ancient-style?
(gutishi ???
).This choice of our text stems from three motiva-tions.
Classical Chinese is typically written in acompressed style, especially so with poetry, wherethe word order is relatively flexible, and grammati-cal exceptions are frequent.
These characteristicspose a formidable challenge for students of Classi-cal Chinese, for whom Tang poetry often formspart of the introductory material.
It is hoped thatthis treebank will serve a pedagogical purpose.Second, this challenging text makes it more likelythat the resulting dependency framework can suc-cessfully handle other Classical Chinese texts.Third, Tang poetry is an active area of research inChinese philology, and we aspire to contribute totheir endeavor.4.2 Inter-annotator agreementTwo annotators, both university graduates with adegree in Chinese, created this treebank.
To meas-ure inter-annotator agreement, we set apart a subsetof about 1050 characters, on which both of themindependently perform three tasks: POS tagging,head selection, and dependency labeling.Their agreement rate is 95.1%, 92.3%, and91.2% for the three respective tasks.
For POS tag-ging, the three main error categories are the confu-sion between adverbs (AD) and verbs with anadverbial force, between measure words (M) andnouns (NN), and between adjectives (JJ) andnouns.
The interested reader is referred to (Lee,2012) for a detailed analysis.These differences in POS tags trickle down tohead selection and dependency labeling.
In fact, allwords which received different POS tags also re-ceived different dependency relations.
To illus-trate with a disagreement between adverb and verb,consider the following sentence.
The word ?kong ?afraid?
may be considered as an adverb, ex-pressing the psychological state for the verb ?at-tract?
; or, alternatively, as a verb in its own right.Depending on the decision, it bears either the rela-tion advmod or root.?
?
?
?
??afraid?
?attract?
?burden?
?fame?
?affect?
[I am] afraid [I] will attract and be burdened by fame8.Some differences are genuine alternative annota-tions, resulting from a mixture of polysemy andflexible word order.
Consider the sentence ????
dan shi yi he, consisting of four charactersmeaning, in order, ?bowl / blanket?, ?food?, a copu-lar or a particle, and ?what?.
If the meaning ?bowl?and copular is taken, it means ?What food is con-tained in that bowl??
In this case, the relation clfis required for ?
dan, and ?
yi is the root word.Alternatively, if the meaning ?blanket?
and particleis taken, it is interpreted as ?What food is placed onthe blanket??
Here, dan takes on the relation nn,and the root word would be ?
he instead.5 Application: Parallel CoupletsWe now demonstrate one use of this treebank byanalyzing a well-known but understudied featureof Classical Chinese poetry: the parallel couplets.5.1 IntroductionParallelism in poetry refers to the correspondenceof one line with another; the two lines may bearsimilar or opposite meaning, and have comparablegrammatical constructions.
This phenomenon isperhaps most well known in classical Hebrew po-etry, but it is also one of the defining features ofChinese poetry; ?it pervades their poetry universal-ly, forms its chief characteristic feature, and is thesource of a great deal of its artificial beauty?, ob-served Sir John Francis Davis, author of one of theearliest commentaries on Chinese poetry publishedin the West (Davis 1969).The lines in a Chinese poem almost always con-tain the same number of characters, most common-ly either five or seven characters.
This exactequality of the number of characters makes it espe-cially suited for expressing parallelism, which be-came a common feature ever since ?recent-style?poetry (section 4.1) was developed during the Tang8 From Wang Wei ???????????196Dynasty.
Unlike those in ?ancient-style?, poems ofthis style are tonally regulated and assume a highdegree of parallelism within a couplet, i.e., twoadjacent lines.
See Figure 1 for an example.5.2 MethodologyThe couplet in Figure 1 is undisputedly symmetric,both in terms of POS tags and dependency labels.The definition for parallelism is, however, quiteloose; in general, the corresponding charactersmust ?agree?
in part-of-speech and have relatedmeaning.
These are unavoidably subjective no-tions.While a vast amount of Tang poems have beendigitized, they have not been POS-tagged or syn-tactically analyzed in any significant amount.
It isnot surprising, therefore, that no large-scale, em-pirical study on how, and how often, the characters?agree?.
There have been a study on 1,000 cou-plets (Cao, 1998), and another on a small subset ofthe poems of Du Mu (Huang, 2006), but neitherclarify the criteria for parallelism.
We undertake adescriptive, rather than prescriptive, approach, us-ing only the treebank data as the basis.Character-level parallelism.
Even given thePOS tags, this study is not straightforward.
Thenaive metric of requiring exactly matched POStags yields a parallel rate of only 74% in the corpusas a whole.
This figure can be misleading, becauseit would vary according to the granularity of thePOS tagset: the more fine-grained it is, the lessagreement there would be.
As a metric for paral-lelism, it has high precision but lower recall, andwould only be appropriate for certain applicationssuch as couplet generation (Jiang and Zhou, 2008).Equivalence POS tags and dependency linksNoun modifier CD, OD, JJ, DTVerbs BA, <verb>, and P (head of pobjor plmod)Adverbials AD, CS, <verb> (head of mmod),<noun> (head of npadvmod)Adjectival <noun> (head of nn or assmod),<verb> (head of vmod), JJ (headof amod)Nouns <noun>, <verb> (head of csubjor csubjpass), M (except clf)Table 4.
Equivalence sets of POS tags for the purpose ofparallelism detection.
<noun> includes NN, NT, NR,PN; <verb> includes VA, VC, VE, VV.By examining portions of the regulated versewhere parallelism is expected, we derived five?equivalence sets?
of POS tags, shown in Table 4.Two tags in the same set are considered parallel,even though they do not match.
In many sets, a tagneeds to be qualified with its dependency relations,since it is considered parallel to other members inthe set only when it plays certain syntactic roles.When applying these equivalence sets as well asexact matching, the parallel rate increases to 87%.The algorithm is of course not perfect9.
It can-not detect, for example, parallelism involving theuse of a polysemous character with a ?out-of-context?
meaning (jieyi ??).
For instance, thecharacter ?
zhe, the fourth character in the secondline in the couplet10 ???????????
?,?means ?person?.
On the surface, it does not matchits counterpart, ?
yan, the fourth character in thefirst line, since yan is a sentence particle and zhe isa noun.
However, the poet apparently viewed themas parallel, because zhe can also function as a sen-tence particle in other contexts.Phrase-level parallelism.
The character-levelmetric, however, still rejects some couplets thatwould be deemed parallel by scholars.
Most ofthese couplets are parallel not at the character lev-el, but at the phrase level.A line in a ?recent-style?
poem is almost alwayssegmented into two syntactic units (Cai, 1998).
Apentasyllabic (5-character) line is composed of adisyllabic unit (the first two characters) followedby a trisyllabic unit (the last three characters)11.Consider two corresponding disyllabic units, ?
?bao qin ?hold?
?violin?, and ??
sui diao ?lookdown?
?fish?.
They are tagged as bao/VV qin/NNand sui/AD diao/VV, respectively.
There is acomplete mismatch at the character level: bao is averb but sui is an adverb; qin is a noun but diao isa verb.
Taken as a whole, however, both units areverb phrases describing an activity (?to hold a vio-lin?
and ?to fish while looking down?
), and so thepoet likely considered them to be parallel at theunit, or phrase, level.9 The quality of these equivalence sets were evaluated on 548characters.
The human expert agrees with the decision of thealgorithm 96.4% of the time at the character level, and 94% ofthe time at the phrase level.10 From Meng Haoran ???????????????
?11 Equivalently, the seven characters in the heptasyllabic regu-lated verse are segmented in a 4+3 fashion.197The dependencies provide a convenient way togauge the level of parallelism at the phrase level.One can extract the head word in the correspond-ing units in the couplet (bao/VV and diao/VV in theexample above), then compare their POS tags, us-ing the algorithm for character-level parallelismdescribe above.5.3 ResultsThe results are shown in Table 5.
All coupletsfrom an ?ancient-style?
poem are considered ?par-allelism optional?.
A couplet from a ?recent-style?poem with eight or more lines12 is either ?parallel-ism not expected?, if it is the first or last couplet inthe poem; or ?parallelism expected?, if it is in themiddle of the poem.
We first determine whether acharacter is parallel to its counterpart in the coupletat the character level; if not, then we back off tothe phrase level.In the ?parallelism expected?
category, the cou-plets of Wang are highly parallel, at both the char-acter (91%) and phrase levels (95%).
This ishardly surprising, given that his poems are highlyregarded.
It is notable, however, that the propor-tion is still relatively high (57% at the characterlevel) even among those couplets for which paral-lelism is not expected, suggesting that the poetplaced a high view on parallelism.
He also em-ployed much parallelism (64% at the character lev-el) in ?ancient-style?
poems, perhaps to aim at ahigher artistic effect.Among the couplets of Wang which are not par-allel at the phrase level, the most frequent combi-nation is a verb phrase matching a noun phrase.The verb, as the second character, is modified byan adverb; the noun, also as the second character,is modified by an adjective.
This implies that the?AD VV?
vs. ?JJ NN?
combination may be con-sidered to be parallel by poets at the time.The trends for Meng are similar, with a signifi-cantly higher score for couplets expected to be par-allel than those that are not (82% vs. 53% at thecharacter level).
Compared to Wang, however,both percentages are lower.
One wonders if thishas any correlation with Meng being commonlyconsidered a less accomplished poet.
Since the?rules?
for parallelism have never been codified,12 These are known as the ?regulated verse?
(lushi ??)
andare subject to definite patterns of parallelism.
Those withfewer lines are left out, since their patterns are less regular.Meng may also have simply espoused a morecoarse-grained view of parts-of-speech.
This hy-pothesis would be consistent with the fact that, atthe phrase level, the proportion of parallelism forMeng is much closer to that for Wang.
This sug-gests that Meng was content with parallelism at thephrase level and emphasized less on matchingcharacter to character.Table 5.
The proportion of characters that are parallel totheir counterparts in the couplet (see section 5.2).
Thecouplets are classified into three types, depending on thegenre of poetry and their position in the poem (see sec-tion 5.3).6 ConclusionWe have presented the first large-scale dependencytreebank of Classical Chinese literature, which en-codes works by two poets in the Tang Dynasty.We have described how the dependency grammarframework has been derived from existing tree-banks for Modern Chinese, and shown a high levelof inter-annotator agreement.
Finally, we haveillustrated the utility of the treebank with a studyon parallelism in Classical Chinese poetry.Future work will focus on parsing ClassicalChinese poems of other poets, and on enriching thecorpus with semantic information, which wouldfacilitate not only deeper study of parallelism butalso other topics such as imagery and metaphoricalcoherence (Zhu and Cui, 2010).AcknowledgmentsWe thank Tin Ho Chan and Cheuk Ho Wan fortheir assistance in annotating this treebank.
Thiswork was supported by a Strategic Research Grant(#7002549) from City University of Hong Kong.Couplet type Metric Wang MengParallelismexpectedChar-level only 91% 82%+ Phrase-level 95% 91%Parallelismnot expectedChar-level only 57% 53%+ Phrase-level 71% 71%ParallelismoptionalChar-level only 64% 65%+ Phrase-level 78% 81%198ReferencesZong-Qi Cai.
2008.
How to Read Chinese Poetry.Columbia University Press, New York.Fengfu Cao ???.
1998.
A Linguistic Study of theParallel Couplets in Tang Poetry.
Technical Report,Linguistics Graduate Institute, National Tsing HuaUniversity, Taiwan.Pi-Chuan Chang, Huihsin Tseng, Dan Jurafsky, andChristopher Manning.
2009.
Discriminative Reor-dering with Chinese Grammatical Relations Features.Proc.
3rd Workshop on Syntax and Structure in Sta-tistical Translation.Psychological Association.Gregory Crane, Brent Seales, and Melissa Terras.
2009.Cyberinfrastructure for Classical Philology.
DigitalHumanities Quarterly 3(1).John F. Davis.
1969.
The Poetry of the Chinese.
Para-gon Book, New York.Ulrike Demske, Nicola Frank, Stefanie Laufer and Hen-drik Stiemer, 2004.
Syntactic Interpretation of anEarly New High German Corpus.
Proc.
Workshopon Treebanks and Linguistic Theories (TLT).Kais Dukes and Tim Buckwalter, 2010.
A DependencyTreebank of the Quran using Traditional ArabicGrammar.
Proc.
7th International Conference on In-formatics and Systems (INFOS), Cairo, Egypt.Shengli Feng.
1998.
Prosodic Structure and Com-pound Words in Classical Chinese.
In New Ap-proaches to Chinese Word Formation, Jerome Pack-ard (ed.
), Mouton de Gruyter.W.
Nelson Francis and Henry Ku?era.
1982.
Fre-quency Analysis of English Usage: Lexicon andGrammar.
Houghton Mifflin.J.
Hajic.
1998.
Building a syntactically annotated cor-pus: The Prague Dependency Treebank.
Issues ofValency and Meaning, Charles University Press.Dag Haug and Marius J?hndal.
2008.
Creating a Paral-lel Treebank of the Old Indo-European Bible Trans-lations.
Proc.
Language Resources and EvaluationConference (LREC).X.
Hu, N. Williamson, and J. McLaughlin.
2005.
Shef-field Corpus of Chinese for Diachronic LinguisticStudy.
Literary and Linguistic Computing 20(3).Li-min Huang.
2006.
The Study of Classical Poems ofTu-mu.
Master?s Thesis, National Sun Yat-sen Uni-versity, Taiwan.Liang Huang, Yinan Peng, Huan Wang, and ZhengyuWu.
2002.
PCFG Parsing for Restricted ClassicalChinese Texts.
Proc.
1st SIGHAN Workshop onChinese Language Processing.Long Jiang and Ming Zhou.
2008.
Generating ChineseCouplets using a Statistical MT Approach.
Proc.COLING.Lewis Lancaster.
2010.
Pattern Recognition and Analy-sis in the Chinese Buddhist Canon: A Study of?Original Enlightenment?.
Pacific World 3(60).Zuonan Li ???
and Renhou Li ???.
1986.
Acomparison of Classical Chinese and Modern Chi-nese ????????
(in Chinese).
Nei MengguRenmin Chubanshe, China.Marie-Catherine de Marneffe and Christopher D. Man-ning.
2008.
Stanford typed dependencies manual.California: Stanford University.Dingqiu Peng.
1960.
Quan Tang Shi ???.
ZhonghuaShuju, Beijing.Susan Pintzuk and Plug Leendert.
2001.
York-HelsinkiParsed Corpus of Old English Poetry.
http://www-users.york.ac.uk/~lang18/pcorpus.htmlRashmi Prasad, Nikhil Dinesh, Alan Lee, Eleni Miltsa-kaki, Livio Robaldo, Aravind Joshi, and BonnieWebber.
2008.
The Penn Discourse Treebank 2.0.Proc.
LREC.Edwin Pulleyblank.
1995.
Outline of Classical ChineseGrammar.
UBC Press, Vancouver, Canada.Vitor Rocio, M?rio Amado Alves, J. Gabriel Lopes,Maria Francisca Xavier, and Gra?a Vicente.
2000.Automated Creation of a Medieval Portuguese PartialTreebank.
In Anne Abeill?
(ed.
), Treebanks: Buildingand Using Parsed Corpora (Dordrecht: Kluwer Aca-demic Publishers), pp.
211-227.Ann Taylor, Anthony Warner, Susan Pintzuk and FrankBeths.
2003.
York-Toronto-Helsinki Parsed Corpusof Old English Prose.
University of York.Pei-chuan Wei, P. M. Thompson, Cheng-hui Liu, Chu-Ren Huang, and Chaofen Sun.
1997.
Historical Cor-pora for Synchronic and Diachronic Linguistics Stud-ies.
Computational Linguistics and ChineseLanguage Processing 2(1):131?145.Li Wang ??.
2004.
A sketch of the history of Chineselanguage ????
(in Chinese).
Zhonghua Shuju,Beijing.Jiaolu Xu.
???.
1992.
Classical Chinese ????
(in Chinese).
Higher Education Press, Beijing.Nianwen Xue, Fei Xia, Fu-Dong Chiou, and MarthaPalmer, 2005.
The Penn Chinese TreeBank: PhraseStructure Annotation of a Large Corpus.
NaturalLanguage Engineering 11:pp.207?238.John Lee.
2012.
A Classical Chinese Corpus withNested Part-of-Speech Tags.
Proc.
EACL Workshopon Language Technology for Cultural Heritage, So-cial Sciences, and Humanities (LaTeCH).Chunshen Zhu and Ying Cui, 2010.
Imagery Focaliza-tion and the Evocation of a Poetic World.
ChineseTranslators Journal.199
