T4: Natural Language Processing in WatsonABSTRACTOpen domain Question Answering (QA) is a long standing research problem.
Recently,IBM took on this challenge in the context of the Jeopardy!
game.
Jeopardy!
is a well-known TV quiz show that has been airing on television in the United States for morethan 25 years.
It pits three human contestants against one another in a competition thatrequires answering rich natural language questions over a very broad domain of topics.The development of a system able to compete to grand champions in the Jeopardy!challenge led to the design of the DeepQA architecture and the implementation ofWatson.
The DeepQA project shapes a grand challenge in Computer Science that aimsto illustrate how the wide and growing accessibility of natural language content and theintegration and advancement of Natural Language Processing, Information Retrieval,Machine Learning, Knowledge Representation and Reasoning, and massively parallelcomputation can drive open-domain automatic Question Answering technology to apoint where it clearly and consistently rivals the best human performance.
NaturalLanguage Processing (NLP) plays a crucial role in the overall Deep QA architecture.
Itallows to "make sense" of both question and unstructured knowledge contained in thelarge corpora where most of the answers are located.
That's why we decided to focusthis tutorial on the NLP technology adopted by Watson and on how it fits in the generalDeep QA architecture.OUTLINEThe course is structured in two modules (1.5h each), described below.1.
Module 1 An overview of the Deep QA projectThis lesson provides a general introduction to the Deep QA project, addressingthe following topics1.
Analysis of the Jeopardy Task2.
The Deep QA architecture3.
Development Cycle2.
Module 2 Natural Language Processing in WatsonThis lesson focuses on the NLP technology implemented in Watson, highlightingthe advancements with respect to state of the art techniques in QuestionAnswering.
In particular:1.
Role of NLP in the Deep QA architecture2.
UIMA3.
Passage Scoring4.
PrismaticBIOSInstructors will be Research Staff Members from the Algorithms team developingWatson at IBM Research.
Depending on availability for the specific day of the tutorial,they will be one or more from the following list:Alfio M. Gliozzo19 Skyline Drive, Hawthorne, NY 10532phone: +1-917-744-4351gliozzo--AT--us.ibm.comhttps://researcher.ibm.com/researcher/view.php?person=us-gliozzoDr.
Alfio Gliozzo is Research Staff Member at IBM Research, where he is part of theDeep QA team.
His main research focus is Domain Adaptation of Question Answeringsystems using machine learning and knowledge acquisition.
He is author of about 50publications in the areas of Computational Linguistics, Information Retrieval, andSemantic Web.Aditya Kalyanpur19 Skyline Drive, Hawthorne, NY 10532adityakal--AT--us.ibm.comhttp://researcher.ibm.com/researcher/view.php?person=us-adityakalAditya Kalyanpur is a Research Staff Member at IBM Research.
His research interestsinclude knowledge representation & reasoning, ontologies, natural languageprocessing, machine learning and statistical data mining.
Aditya has been involved inthe development of several core algorithms in Watson related to question analysis,evidence gathering and scoring, knowledge based inference, and answer merging andranking.James Fan19 Skyline Drive, Hawthorne, NY 10532fanj--AT--us.ibm.comhttps://researcher.ibm.com/researcher/view.php?person=us-fanjJames Fan is a research staff member at IBM Research.
James has been working inthe area of question answering since 2003, and has published on subjects in knowledgerepresentation, reasoning, natural language processing and machine learning.
James iscurrently working the DeepQA project.
