2012 Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics: Human Language Technologies, pages 11?19,Montre?al, Canada, June 3-8, 2012. c?2012 Association for Computational LinguisticsAcoustic-Prosodic Entrainment and Social BehaviorRivka Levitan1, Agust?
?n Gravano2, Laura Willson1,S?tefan Ben?us?3, Julia Hirschberg1, Ani Nenkova41 Dept.
of Computer Science, Columbia University, New York, NY 10027, USA2 Departamento de Computacio?n (FCEyN), Universidad de Buenos Aires, Argentina3 Constantine the Philosopher University & Institute of Informatics, Slovak Academy of Sciences, Slovakia4 Dept.
of Computer and Information Science, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA 19104, USArlevitan@cs.columbia.edu, gravano@dc.uba.ar, law2142@barnard.edu,sbenus@ukf.sk, julia@cs.columbia.edu, nenkova@seas.upenn.eduAbstractIn conversation, speakers have been shownto entrain, or become more similar to eachother, in various ways.
We measure entrain-ment on eight acoustic features extracted fromthe speech of subjects playing a cooperativecomputer game and associate the degree of en-trainment with a number of manually-labeledsocial variables acquired using Amazon Me-chanical Turk, as well as objective measuresof dialogue success.
We find that male-femalepairs entrain on all features, while male-malepairs entrain only on particular acoustic fea-tures (intensity mean, intensity maximum andsyllables per second).
We further determinethat entrainment is more important to the per-ception of female-male social behavior than itis for same-gender pairs, and it is more impor-tant to the smoothness and flow of male-maledialogue than it is for female-female or mixed-gender pairs.
Finally, we find that entrainmentis more pronounced when intensity or speak-ing rate is especially high or low.1 IntroductionEntrainment, also termed alignment, adaptation,priming or coordination, is the phenomenon ofconversational partners becoming more similar toeach other in what they say, how they say it,and other behavioral phenomena.
Entrainment hasbeen shown to occur for numerous aspects of spo-ken language, including speakers?
choice of re-ferring expressions (Brennan & Clark, 1996); lin-guistic style (Niederhoffer & Pennebaker, 2002;Danescu-Niculescu-Mizil et al, 2011); syntacticstructure (Reitter et al, 2006); speaking rate (Lev-itan & Hirschberg, 2011); acoustic/prosodic fea-tures such as fundamental frequency, intensity, voicequality (Levitan & Hirschberg, 2011); and phonet-ics (Pardo, 2006).Entrainment in many of these dimensions has alsobeen associated with different measures of dialoguesuccess.
For example, Chartrand and Bargh (1999)demonstrated that mimicry of posture and behaviorled to increased liking between the dialogue par-ticipants as well as a smoother interaction.
Theyalso found that naturally empathetic individuals ex-hibited a greater degree of mimicry than did oth-ers.
Nenkova et al (2008) found that entrainmenton high-frequency words was correlated with nat-uralness, task success, and coordinated turn-takingbehavior.
Natale (1975) showed that an individ-ual?s social desirability, or ?propensity to act ina social manner,?
can predict the degree to whichthat individual will match her partner?s vocal inten-sity.
Levitan et al (2011) showed that entrainmenton backchannel-preceding cues is correlated withshorter latency between turns, fewer interruptions,and a higher degree of task success.
In a study ofmarried couples discussing problems in their rela-tionships, Lee et al (2010) found that entrainmentmeasures derived from pitch features were signifi-cantly higher in positive interactions than in nega-tive interactions and were predictive of the polarityof the participants?
attitudes.These studies have been motivated by theoreti-cal models such as Giles?
Communication Accom-modation Theory (Giles & Coupland, 1991), whichproposes that speakers promote social approval or11efficient communication by adapting to their inter-locutors?
communicative behavior.
Another theoryinforming the association of entrainment and dia-logue success is the coordination-rapport hypoth-esis (Tickle-Degnen & Rosenthal, 1990), whichposits that the degree of liking between conversa-tional partners should be correlated with the degreeof nonverbal coordination between them.Motivated by such theoretical proposals and em-pirical findings, we hypothesized that entrainmenton acoustic/prosodic dimensions such as pitch, in-tensity, voice quality and speaking rate might alsobe correlated with positive aspects of perceivedsocial behaviors as well as other perceived char-acteristics of efficient, well-coordinated conversa-tions.
In this paper we describe a series of ex-periments investigating the relationship between ob-jective acoustic/prosodic dimensions of entrainmentand manually-annotated perception of a set of so-cial variables designed to capture important as-pects of conversational partners?
social behaviors.Since prior research on other dimensions of entrain-ment has sometimes observed differences in degreeof entrainment between female-female, male-maleand mixed gender groups (Bilous & Krauss, 1988;Pardo, 2006; Namy et al, 2002), we also exam-ined our data for variation by gender pair, consid-ering female-female, male-male, and female-malepairs of speakers separately.
If previous findingsextend to acoustic/prosodic entrainment, we wouldexpect female-female pairs to entrain to a greaterdegree than male-male pairs and female partners inmixed gender pairs to entrain more than their malecounterparts.
Since prior findings posit that entrain-ment leads to smoother and more natural conversa-tions, we would also expect degree of entrainmentto correlate with perception of other characteristicsdescriptive of such conversations.Below we describe the corpus and annotationsused in this study and how our social annotationswere obtained in Sections 2 and 3.
We next discussour method and results for the prevalence of entrain-ment among different gender groups (Section 4).
InSections 5 and 6, we present the results of correlat-ing acoustic entrainment with social variables andobjective success measures, respectively.
Finally, inSection 7, we explore entrainment in cases of outlierfeature values.2 The Columbia Games CorpusThe Columbia Games Corpus (Gravano & Hirsch-berg, 2011) consists of approximately nine hoursof spontaneous dialogue between pairs of subjectsplaying a series of computer games.
Six females andseven males participated in the collection of the cor-pus; eleven of the subjects returned on a differentday for another session with a new partner.During the course of each session, a pair of speak-ers played three Cards games and one Objects game.The work described here was carried out on the Ob-jects games.
This section of each session took 7m12s on average.
We have a total of 4h 19m of Ob-jects game speech in the corpus.For each task in an Objects game, the playerssaw identical collections of objects on their screens.However, one player (the Describer) had an addi-tional target object positioned among the other ob-jects, while the other (the Follower) had the sameobject at the bottom of her screen.
The Describerwas instructed to describe the position of the targetobject so that the Follower could place it in exactlythe same location on her screen.
Points (up to 100)were awarded based on how well the Follower?s tar-get location matched the describers.
Each pair ofpartners completed 14 such tasks, alternating roleswith each task.
The partners were separated by acurtain to ensure that all communication was oral.The entire corpus has been orthographically tran-scribed and words aligned with the speech source.
Ithas also been ToBI-labeled (Silverman et al, 1992)for prosodic events, as well as labeled for turn-taking behaviors.3 Annotation of Social VariablesIn order to study how entrainment in various dimen-sions correlated with perceived social behaviors ofour subjects, we asked Amazon Mechanical Turk1annotators to label the 168 Objects games in our cor-pus for an array of social behaviors perceived foreach of the speakers, which we term here ?socialvariables.
?Each Human Intelligence Task (HIT) presented tothe AMT workers for annotation consisted of a sin-gle Objects game task.
To be eligible for our HITs,1http://www.mturk.com12annotators had to have a 95% success rate on pre-vious AMT HITs and to be located in the UnitedStates.
They also had to complete a survey estab-lishing that they were native English speakers withno hearing impairments.
The annotators were paid$0.30 for each HIT they completed.
Over half of theannotators completed fewer than five hits, and onlyfour completed more than twenty.The annotators listened to an audio clip of thetask, which was accompanied by an animation thatdisplayed a blue square or a green circle dependingon which speaker was currently talking.
They werethen asked to answer a series of questions about eachspeaker: Does Person A/B believe s/he is better thanhis/her partner?
Make it difficult for his/her partnerto speak?
Seem engaged in the game?
Seem to dis-like his/her partner?
Is s/he bored with the game?Directing the conversation?
Frustrated with his/herpartner?
Encouraging his/her partner?
Makinghim/herself clear?
Planning what s/he is going tosay?
Polite?
Trying to be liked?
Trying to domi-nate the conversation?
They were also asked ques-tions about the dialogue as a whole: Does it flownaturally?
Are the participants having trouble un-derstanding each other?
Which person do you likemore?
Who would you rather have as a partner?A series of check questions with objectively de-terminable answers (e.g.
?Which speaker is the De-scriber??)
were included among the target questionsto ensure that the annotators were completing thetask with integrity.
HITs for which the annotatorfailed to answer the check questions correctly weredisqualified.Each task was rated by five unique annotators whoanswered ?yes?
or ?no?
to each question, yieldinga score ranging from 0 to 5 for each social vari-able, representing the number of annotators who an-swered ?yes.?
A fuller description of the annotationfor social variables can be found in (Gravano et al,2011).In this study, we focus our analysis on annotationsof four social variables:?
Is the speaker trying to be liked??
Is the speaker trying to dominate the conversa-tion??
Is the speaker giving encouragement to his/herpartner??
Is the conversation awkward?We correlated annotations of these variables withan array of acoustic/prosodic features.4 Acoustic entrainmentWe examined entrainment in this study in eightacoustic/prosodic features:?
Intensity mean?
Intensity max?
Pitch mean?
Pitch max?
Jitter?
Shimmer?
Noise-to-harmonics ratio (NHR)?
Syllables per secondIntensity is an acoustic measure correlated withperceived loudness.
Jitter, shimmer, and noise-to-harmonics ratios are three measures of voice quality.Jitter describes varying pitch in the voice, which isperceived as a rough sound.
Shimmer describes fluc-tuation of loudness in the voice.
Noise-to-harmonicsratio is associated with perceived hoarseness.
Allfeatures were speaker-normalized using z-scores.For each task, we define entrainment betweenpartners on each feature f asENTp = ?|speaker1f ?
speaker2f |where speaker[1,2]f represents the correspondingspeaker?s mean for that feature over the task.We say that the corpus shows evidence of en-trainment on feature f if ENTp, the similarities be-tween partners, are significantly greater than ENTx,the similarities between non-partners:ENTx = ?
?i |speaker1f ?Xi,f ||X|where X is the set of speakers of same gender androle as the speaker?s partner who are not paired withthe speaker in any session.
We restrict the compar-isons to speakers of the same gender and role as thespeaker?s partner to control for the fact that differ-ences may simply be due to differences in gender orrole.
The results of a series of paired t-tests compar-ing ENTp and ENTx for each feature are summarizedin Table 1.13Feature FF MM FMIntensity mean X X XIntensity max X X XPitch mean XPitch max XJitter X XShimmer X XNHR XSyllables per sec X X XTable 1: Evidence of entrainment for gender pairs.
A tickindicates that the data shows evidence of entrainment onthat row?s feature for that column?s gender pair.We find that female-female pairs in our corpusentrain on, in descending order of significance, jitter,intensity max, intensity mean, syllables per secondand shimmer.
They do not entrain on pitch meanor max or NHR.
Male-male pairs show the leastevidence of entrainment, entraining only on inten-sity mean, intensity max, and syllables per second,supporting the hypothesis that entrainment is lessprevalent among males.
Female-male pairs entrainon, again in descending order of significance, inten-sity mean, intensity max, jitter, syllables per second,pitch mean, NHR, shimmer, and pitch max ?
in fact,on every feature we examine, with significance val-ues in each case of p<0.01.To look more closely at the entrainment behaviorof males and females in mixed-gender pairs, we de-fine ENT2p as follows:ENT2p = ?
?i |Pi,f ?
Ti,f ||T|where T is the set of the pause-free chunks of speechthat begin a speaker?s turns, and P is the correspond-ing set of pause-free chunks that end the interlocu-tor?s preceding turns.
Unlike ENTp, this measure isasymmetric, allowing us to consider each memberof a pair separately.We compare ENT2p for each feature for males andfemales of mixed gender pairs.
Contrary to our hy-pothesis that females in mixed-gender pairs wouldentrain more, we found no significant differencesin partner gender.
Females in mixed-gender pairsdo not match their interlocutor?s previous turn anymore than do males.
This may be due to the factFeature FM MM F pIntensity mean ?
?
3.83 0.02Intensity max ?
?
4.01 0.02Syllables per sec ?
?
2.56 0.08Table 2: Effects of gender pair on entrainment.
An arrowpointing up indicates that the group?s normalized entrain-ment for that feature is greater than that of female-femalepairs; an arrow pointing down indicates that it is smaller.that, as shown in Table 1, the overall differences be-tween partners in mixed-gender pairs are quite low,and so neither partner may be doing much turn-by-turn matching.However, as we expected, entrainment is leastprevalent among male-male pairs.
Although we ex-pected female-female pairs to exhibit the highestprevalence of entrainment, they do not show evi-dence of entrainment on pitch mean, pitch max orNHR, while female-male pairs entrain on every fea-ture.
In fact, although ENTp for these features is notsignificantly smaller between female-female pairsthan between female-male pairs, ENTx, the overallsimilarity among non-partners for these features, issignificantly larger between females than betweenfemales and males.
The degree of similarity betweenfemale-female partners is therefore attributable tothe overall similarity between females rather thanthe effect of entrainment.All three types of pairs exhibit entrainment on in-tensity mean, intensity max, and syllables per sec-ond.
We look more closely into the gender-baseddifferences in entrainment behavior with an ANOVAwith the ratio of ENTp to ENTx as the dependentvariable and gender pair as the independent variable.Normalizing ENTp by ENTx allows us to comparethe degree of entrainment across gender pairs.
Re-sults are shown in Table 2.
Male-male pairs havelower entrainment than female-female pairs for ev-ery feature; female-male pairs have higher entrain-ment than female-female pairs for intensity meanand max and lower for syllables per second (p <0.1).
These results are consistent with the generalfinding that male-male pairs entrain the least andfemale-male pairs entrain the most.145 Entrainment and social behaviorWe next correlate each of the social variables de-scribed in Section 3 with ENTp for our eight acous-tic features.
Based on Communication Accommo-dation Theory, we would expect gives encourage-ment, a variable representing a desirable social char-acteristic, to be positively correlated with entrain-ment.
Conversely, conversation awkward should benegatively correlated with entrainment.
We note thatTrying to be liked is negatively correlated with thelike more variable in our data ?
that is, annotatorswere less likely to prefer speakers whom they per-ceived as trying to be liked.
This reflects the in-tuition that someone overly eager to be liked maybe perceived as annoying and socially inept.
How-ever, similarity-attraction theory states that similar-ity promotes attraction, and someone might there-fore entrain in order to obtain his partner?s socialapproval.
This idea is supported by Natale?s find-ing that the need for social approval is predictiveof the degree of a speaker?s convergence on inten-sity (Natale, 1975).
We can therefore expect tryingto be liked to positively correlate with entrainment.Speakers who are perceived as trying to dominatemay be overly entraining to their interlocutors inwhat is sometimes called ?dependency overaccom-modation.?
Dependency overaccommodation causesthe interlocutor to appear dependent on the speakerand gives the impression that the speaker is control-ling the conversation (West & Turner, 2009).The results of our correlations of social vari-ables with acoustic/prosodic entrainment are gen-erally consonant with these intuitions.
Although itis not straightforward to compare correlation coeffi-cients of groups for which we have varying amountsof data, for purposes of assessing trends, we willconsider a correlation strong if it is significant at thep < 0.00001 level, moderate at the p < 0.01 level,and weak at the p < 0.05 level.
The results are sum-marized in Table 3; we present only the significantresults for space considerations.For female-female pairs, giving encouragementis weakly correlated with entrainment on intensitymax and shimmer.
Conversation awkward is weaklycorrelated with entrainment on jitter.
For male-malepairs, trying to be liked is moderately correlatedwith entrainment on intensity mean and weakly cor-related with entrainment on jitter and NHR.
Giv-ing encouragement is moderately correlated withentrainment on intensity mean, intensity max, andNHR.
For female-male pairs, trying to be likedis moderately correlated with entrainment on pitchmean.
Giving encouragement is strongly corre-lated with entrainment on intensity mean and maxand moderately correlated with entrainment on pitchmean and shimmer.
However, it is negatively cor-related with entrainment on jitter, although the cor-relation is weak.
Conversation awkward is weaklycorrelated with entrainment on jitter.As we expected, giving encouragement is corre-lated with entrainment for all three gender groups,and trying to be liked is correlated with entrainmentfor male-male and female-male groups.
However,trying to dominate is not correlated with entrainmenton any feature, and conversation awkward is actu-ally positively correlated with entrainment on jitter.Entrainment on jitter is a clear outlier here, withall of its correlations contrary to our hypotheses.
Inaddition to being positively correlated with conver-sation awkward, it is the only feature to be nega-tively correlated with giving encouragement.Entrainment is correlated with the most socialvariables for female-male pairs; these correlationsare also the strongest.
We therefore conclude thatacoustic entrainment is not only most prevalent formixed-gender pairs, it is also more important to theperception of female-male social behavior than it isfor same-gender pairs.6 Entrainment and objective measures ofdialogue successWe now examine acoustic/prosodic entrainment inour corpus according to four objective measures ofdialogue success: the mean latency between turns,the percentage of turns that are interruptions, thepercentage of turns that are overlaps, and the numberof turns in a task.High latency between turns can be considered asign of an unsuccessful conversation, with poor turn-taking behavior indicating a possible lack of rapportand difficulty in communication between the part-ners.
A high percentage of interruptions, another ex-ample of poor turn-taking behavior, may be a symp-tom of or a reason for hostility or awkwardness be-15Social Acoustic df r pFemale-FemaleGiving Int.
max -0.24 0.03enc.
Shimmer -0.24 0.03Conv.
Jitter -0.23 0.03awkwardMale-MaleTrying to Int.
mean -0.30 0.006be liked Jitter -0.27 0.01NHR -0.23 0.03Giving Int.
mean -0.39 0.0003enc.
Int.
max -0.31 0.005NHR -0.30 0.005Female-MaleTrying to Pitch mean -0.26 0.001be likedGiving Int.
mean -0.36 2.8e-06enc.
Int.
max -0.31 7.7e-05Pitch mean -0.23 0.003Jitter 0.19 0.02Shimmer -0.16 0.04Conv.
Jitter -0.17 0.04awkwardTable 3: Correlations between entrainment and socialvariables.tween partners.
We expect these measures to be neg-atively correlated with entrainment.
Conversely, ahigh percentage of overlaps may be a symptom ofa well-coordinated conversation that is flowing eas-ily.
In the guidelines for the turn-taking annotationof the Games Corpus (Gravano, 2009), overlaps aredefined as cases in which Speaker 2 takes the floor,overlapping with the completion of Speaker 1?s ut-terance.
Overlaps require the successful reading ofturn-taking cues and by definition preclude awkwardpauses.
We expect a high percentage of overlaps tocorrelate positively with entrainment.The number of turns in a task can be interpretedeither positively or negatively.
A high number isnegative in that it is the sign of an inefficient dia-logue, one which takes many turn exchanges to ac-complish the objective.
However, it may also bethe sign of easy, flowing dialogue between the part-ners.
In our domain, it may also be a sign of a high-achieving pair who are placing the object meticu-Objective Acoustic df r pFemale-FemaleLatency Int.
mean 0.22 0.04Int.
max 0.31 0.005Pitch mean 0.24 0.02Jitter 0.29 0.007Shimmer 0.33 0.002Syllables/sec 0.39 0.0002# Turns Int.
max -0.30 0.006Shimmer -0.34 0.002NHR -0.24 0.03Syllables/sec -0.28 0.01% Overlaps Int.
max -0.23 0.04Shimmer -0.30 0.005% Interruptions Shimmer -0.33 0.005Male-MaleLatency Int.
mean 0.57 8.8e-08Int.
max 0.43 0.0001Pitch mean 0.52 2.4e-06Pitch max 0.61 5.7e-09Jitter 0.65 4.5e-10NHR 0.40 0.0004# Turns Int.
mean -0.29 0.0002Pitch mean -0.32 0.003Pitch max -0.29 0.007NHR -0.47 7.9e-06Syllables/sec -0.25 0.02% Overlaps Int.
mean -0.39 0.0002Int.
max -0.39 0.0002% Interruptions NHR -0.33 0.002Female-Male# Turns Int.
mean -0.24 0.003Int.
max -0.19 0.02Shimmer -0.16 0.04% Overlaps Shimmer -0.26 0.001Table 4: Correlations between entrainment and objectivevariables.lously in order to secure every single point.
Wetherefore expect the number of turns to be positivelycorrelated with entrainment.
As before, we con-sider a correlation strong if it is significant at thep < 0.00001 level, moderate at the p < 0.01 level,and weak at the p < 0.05 level.
The significant cor-relations are presented in Table 4.For female-female pairs, mean latency between16turns is negatively correlated with entrainment on allvariables except pitch max and NHR.
The correla-tions are weak for intensity mean and pitch meanand moderate for intensity max, jitter, shimmer, andsyllables per second.
The number of turns is moder-ately correlated with entrainment on intensity maxand shimmer and weakly correlated with entrain-ment on syllables per second.
Contrary to our expec-tations, the percentage of interruptions is positively(though moderately) correlated with entrainment onshimmer; the percentage of overlaps is moderatelycorrelated with entrainment on shimmer and weaklycorrelated with entrainment on intensity max.Male-male pairs show the most correlations be-tween entrainment and objective measures of dia-logue success.
The latency between turns is neg-atively correlated with entrainment on all variablesexcept shimmer and syllables per second; the corre-lations are moderate for intensity max and NHR andstrong for the rest.
The number of turns in a taskis positively correlated with entrainment on everyvariable except intensity mean, jitter and shimmer:strongly for NHR; moderately for intensity mean,pitch mean, and pitch max; and weakly for syllablesper second..
The percentage of overlaps is moder-ately correlated with entrainment on intensity meanand max.
The percentage of interruptions is moder-ately correlated with entrainment on NHR.For female-male pairs, the number of turns ismoderately correlated with entrainment on intensitymean and weakly correlated with entrainment on in-tensity max and shimmer.
The percentage of over-laps is moderately correlated with entrainment onshimmer.For the most part, the directions of the correla-tions we have found are in accordance with our hy-potheses.
Latency is negatively correlated with en-trainment and overlaps and the number of turns arepositively correlated.
A puzzling exception is thepercentage of interruptions, which is positively cor-related with entrainment on shimmer (for female-female pairs) and NHR (for male-male pairs).While the strongest correlations were for mixed-gender pairs for the social variables, we find thatthe strongest correlations for objective variables arefor male-male pairs, which also have the great-est number of correlations.
It therefore seems thatwhile entrainment is more important to the percep-tion of social behavior for mixed-gender pairs thanit is for same-gender pairs, it is more important tothe smoothness and flow of dialogue for male-malepairs than it is for female-female or female-malepairs.7 Entrainment in outliersSince acoustic entrainment is generally consideredan unconscious phenomenon, it is interesting to con-sider tasks in which a particular feature of a person?sspeech is particularly salient.
This will occur when afeature differs significantly from the norm ?
for ex-ample, when a person?s voice is unusually loud orsoft.
Chartrand and Bargh (1999) suggest that thepsychological mechanism behind the entrainment isthe perception-behavior link, the finding that the actof observing another?s behavior increases the like-lihood of the observer?s engaging in that behavior.Based on this finding, we hypothesize that a part-ner pair containing one ?outlier?
speaker will exhibitmore entrainment on the salient feature, since thatfeature is more likely to be observed and thereforeimitated.We consider values in the 10th or 90th percentilefor a feature ?outliers.?
We can consider ENTx, thesimilarity between a speaker and the speakers of herpartner?s role and gender with whom she is neverpaired, the ?baseline?
value for the similarity be-tween a speaker and her interlocutor when no en-trainment occurs.
ENTp ?
ENTx, the difference be-tween the similarity existing between partners andthe baseline similarity, is then a measure of howmuch entrainment exists relative to baseline.We compare ENTp ?
ENTx for ?normal?
versus?outlier?
speakers.
ENTp should be smaller for out-lier speakers, since their interlocutors are not likelyto be similarly unusual.
However, ENTx should alsobe lower for outlier speakers, since by definition theydiverge from the norm, while the normal speakersby definition represent the norm.
It is therefore rea-sonable to expect ENTp ?
ENTx to be the same foroutlier speakers and normal speakers.If ENTp ?
ENTx is higher for outlier speakers,that means that ENTp is higher than we expect, andentrainment is greater relative to baseline for pairscontaining an outlier speaker.
If ENTp ?
ENTx islower for outlier speakers, that means that ENTp is17Acoustic t df pIntensity mean 5.66 94.26 1.7e-07Intensity max 8.29 152.05 5.5e-14Pitch mean -1.20 76.82 N.S.Pitch max -0.84 76.76 N.S.Jitter 0.36 70.23 N.S.Shimmer 2.64 102.23 0.02NHR -0.92 137.34 N.S.Syllables per sec 2.41 72.60 0.02Table 5: T-tests for relative entrainment for outlier vs.normal speakers.lower than we expect, and pairs containing an outlierspeaker entrain less than do pairs of normal speak-ers, even allowing for the fact that their usual valuesshould be further apart to begin with.The results for t-tests comparing ENTp ?
ENTxfor ?normal?
versus ?outlier?
speakers are shownin Table 5.
Outlier pairs have higher relative en-trainment than do normal pairs for intensity meanand max, shimmer, and syllables per second.
Thismeans that speakers confronted with an interlocutorwho diverges widely from the norm for those fourfeatures make a larger adjustment to their speech inorder to converge to that interlocutor.An ANOVA shows that relative entrainment onintensity max is higher in outlier cases for male-male pairs than for female-female pairs and evenhigher for female-male pairs (F=11.33, p=5.3e-05).Relative entrainment on NHR in these cases is lowerfor male-male pairs than for female-female pairsand higher for female-male pairs (F=11.41, p=6.5e-05).
Relative entrainment on syllables per secondis lower for male-male pairs and higher for female-male pairs (F=5.73, p=0.005).
These results differslightly from the results in Table 2 for differencesin entrainment in the general case among genderpairs, reinforcing the idea that cases in which fea-ture values diverge widely from the norm are uniquein terms of entrainment behavior.8 ConclusionOur study of entrainment on acoustic/prosodic vari-ables yields new findings about entrainment be-havior for female-female, male-male, and mixed-gender dyads, as well as the association of entrain-ment with perceived social characteristics and ob-jective measures of dialogue smoothness and effi-ciency.
We find that entrainment is the most preva-lent for mixed-gender pairs, followed by female-female pairs, with male-male pairs entraining theleast.
Entrainment is the most important to the per-ception of social behavior of mixed-gender pairs,and it is the most important to the efficiency and flowof male-male dialogues.For the most part, the directions of the correla-tions of entrainment with success variables accordwith hypotheses motivated by the relevant literature.Giving encouragement and trying to be liked arepositively correlated with entrainment, as are per-centage of overlaps and number of turns.
Mean la-tency, a symptom of a poorly-run conversation, isnegatively associated with entrainment.
However,several exceptions suggest that the associations arenot straightforward and further research must bedone to fully understand the relationship betweenentrainment, social characteristics and dialogue suc-cess.
In particular, the explanation behind the as-sociations of entrainment on certain variables withcertain social and objective measures is an interest-ing direction for future work.Finally, we find that in ?outlier?
cases where aparticular speaker diverges widely from the norm forintensity mean, intensity max, or syllables per sec-ond, entrainment is more pronounced.
This supportsthe theory that the perception-behavior link is themechanism behind entrainment and provides a pos-sible direction for research into why speakers entrainon certain features and not others.
In future work wewill explore this direction and go more thoroughlyinto individual differences in entrainment behavior.AcknowledgmentsThis material is based upon work supported inpart by NSF IIS-0307905, NSF IIS-0803148,UBACYT 20020090300087, ANPCYT PICT-2009-0026, CONICET, VEGA No.
2/0202/11; and theEUSF (ITMS 26240220060).ReferencesAmazon Mechanical Turk, http://www.mturk.com.Frances R. Bilous and Robert M. Krauss 1988.
Dom-inance and accommodation in the conversational be-18haviours of same- and mixed-gender dyads.
Languageand Communication, 8(3/4):183?194.Susan E. Brennan and Herbert H. Clark.
1996.
Concep-tual Pacts and Lexical Choice in Conversation.
Jour-nal of Experimental Psychology: Learning, Memoryand Cognition, 22(6):1482?1493.Tanya L. Chartrand and John A. Bargh.
1999.
TheChameleon Effect: The Perception-Behavior Link andSocial Interaction.
Journal of Personality and SocialPsychology, 76(6):893?910.Cristian Danescu-Niculescu-Mizil, Michael Gamon, andSusan Dumais.
2011.
Mark My Words!
LinguisticStyle Accommodation in Social Media.
Proceedingsof WWW 2011.H.
Giles and N. Coupland.
1991.
Language: Contextsand Consequences.
Pacific Grove, CA: Brooks/Cole.Agust?
?n Gravano.
2009.
Turn-Taking and AffirmativeCue Words in Task-Oriented Dialogue.
Ph.D. thesis,Columbia University, New York.Agust?
?n Gravano and Julia Hirschberg.
2011.
Turn-taking cues in task-oriented dialogue.
ComputerSpeech and Language, 25(3):601?634.Agust?
?n Gravano, Rivka Levitan, Laura Willson, S?tefanBen?us?, Julia Hirschberg, Ani Nenkova.
2011.
Acous-tic and Prosodic Correlates of Social Behavior.
Inter-speech 2011.Chi-Chun Lee, Matthew Black, Athanasios Katsama-nis, Adam Lammert, Brian Baucom, Andrew Chris-tensen, Panayiotis G. Georgiou, Shrikanth Narayanan.2010.
Quantification of Prosodic Entrainment in Af-fective Spontaneous Spoken Interactions of MarriedCouples.
Eleventh Annual Conference of the Interna-tional Speech Communication Association.Rivka Levitan, Agust?
?n Gravano, and Julia Hirschberg.2011.
Entrainment in Speech Preceding Backchan-nels.
Proceedings of ACL/HLT 2011.Rivka Levitan and Julia Hirschberg.
2011.
Measuringacoustic-prosodic entrainment with respect to multi-ple levels and dimensions.
Proceedings of Interspeech2011.Laura L. Namy, Lynne C. Nygaard, Denise Sauerteig.2002.
Gender differences in vocal accommodation:the role of perception.
Journal of Language and So-cial Psychology, 21(4):422?432.Michael Natale.
1975.
Convergence of Mean Vocal In-tensity in Dyadic Communication as a Function of So-cial Desirability.
Journal of Personality and SocialPsychology, 32(5):790?804.Ani Nenkova, Agust?
?n Gravano, and Julia Hirschberg.2008.
High-frequency word entrainment in spoken di-alogue.
Proceedings of ACL/HLT 2008.Kate G. Niederhoffer and James W. Pennebaker.
2002.Linguistic style matching in social interaction.
Jour-nal of Language and Social Psychology, 21(4):337?360.Jennifer S. Pardo.
2006.
On phonetic convergence dur-ing conversational interaction.
Journal of the Acousti-cal Society of America, 119(4):2382?2393.David Reitter, Johanna D. Moore, and Frank Keller.1996.
Priming of Syntactic Rules in Task-Oriented Di-alogue and Spontaneous Conversation.
Proceedings ofthe 28th Annual Conference of the Cognitive ScienceSociety.Kim Silverman, Mary Beckman, John Pitrelli, Mori Os-tendorf, Colin Wightman, Patti Price, Janet Pierrehum-bert, Julia Hirschberg.
1992.
TOBI: A Standard forLabeling English Prosody.
ICSLP-1992, 867-870.Linda Tickle-Degnen and Robert Rosenthal.
1990.
TheNature of Rapport and its Nonverbal Correlates.
Psy-chological Inquiry, 1(4):285?293.Richard West & Lynn Turner.
2009.
IntroducingCommunication Theory: Analysis and Application.McGraw-Hill Humanities/Social Sciences/Languages,4th edition.19
