2012 Conference of the North American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics: Human Language Technologies, pages 274?283,Montre?al, Canada, June 3-8, 2012. c?2012 Association for Computational LinguisticsNOMIT: Automatic Titling by NominalizingC?dric Lopez, Violaine Prince, and Mathieu RocheLIRMM, CNRS, Univ.
Montpellier 2161, rue AdaMontpellier, France{lopez,prince,mroche}@lirmm.frAbstractThe important mass of textual documents isin perpetual growth and requires strong ap-plications to automatically process informa-tion.
Automatic titling is an essential task forseveral applications: ?No Subject?
e-mails ti-tling, text generation, summarization, and soforth.
This study presents an original ap-proach consisting in titling journalistic articlesby nominalizing.
In particular, morphologicaland semantic processing are employed to ob-tain a nominalized form which has to respecttitles characteristics (in particular, relevanceand catchiness).
The evaluation of the ap-proach, described in the paper, indicates thattitles stemming from this method are informa-tive and/or catchy.1 IntroductionA title establishes a link between a reader and atext.
It has two main functions.
First of all, a ti-tle can be informative (it conveys relevant informa-tion about the text content and aim), and second, itcan be catchy or incentive (Herrero Cecilia, 2007).A heading is said to be catchy when it succeeds incapturing the reader?s attention on an aspect of theannounced event, in a ingenious, metaphoric, enig-matic, or shocking way.
From a syntactic point ofview, a title can be a word, a phrase, an expression,a sentence, that designates a paper or one of its parts,by giving its subject.Titles are used within applications such as auto-matic generation of contents, or summarization.
So,it is interesting to automate the process that producesrelevant titles by extracting them from texts, andsupplying other applications with such data, whileavoiding any human intervention: Direct applica-tions (as automatic titling of "no object" e-mails) arethus possible.The point is that several titles can be relevant for asame text: This constitutes the main difficulty of au-tomatic titling.
Some writers prefer informative ti-tles, whereas others prefer catchy ones.
Others jug-gle with both criteria according to the context andthe type of the publication.
So, evaluation of au-tomatic titling is a complex step requiring a humanintervention.
Indeed, how can titles relevance be es-timated ?
How an automatic title can be comparedto a human-written ("real") title, knowing that bothcan have a very different morphosyntactic structure?Automatic titling is a full process, possessing itsown functions.
It has to be sharply differentiatedfrom summarization and indexation tasks.
Its pur-pose is to propose title(s) that have to be short, infor-mative and/or catchy, and keep a coherent syntacticstructure.
NLP1 methods will be exploited in orderto abide by language morphosyntactic and semanticconstraints in titling.In this paper, we describe an approach of auto-matic titling relying on nominalization, i.e.
rulestransforming a verb phrase into a noun phrase (e.g.
"the president left" is nominalized into " President?sDeparture").
This study raises two crucial questions:(1) Determining sentences and phrases containingrelevant information (2) Nominalizing a chosen itemand using it as a title.
Example: From the fol-lowing pair of sentences "The disappointing perfor-1Natural Language Processing274mance, on Sunday October 9th, of S?gol?ne Royal,amazed the French citizens.
For months, they de-fended their candidate on the Web.
", containing therelevant information about an article in the Frenchpress in 2007, the idea is to built the following title:"S?gol?ne Royal: Surprise of the French citizens".In fact, other titles could apply such as "S?gol?neRoyal?s Disappointing Performance" or "Surprisingthe French Citizens", but notice that both are less in-formative, since they drop a part of the information.This article is organized as such: The follow-ing section briefly positions automatic titling in itsresearch environment and describes previous work(section 2).
The next one describes NOMIT, our ap-proach of automatic titling by nominalization, whichconsists in three successive steps: Extracting candi-date headings from the document (section 3.1), pro-cessing them linguistically (section 3.2), and last,selecting one among the produced headings, whichwill play the role of the system heading suggestion(section 3.3).
Finally, the results of NOMIT evalua-tion are presented and discussed (section 4).2 Previous WorkAutomatic titling of textual documents is a subjectoften confused with summarization and indexationtasks.
While a summary has to give an outline of thetext contents, the title has to indicate the subject ofthe text without revealing all the contents.
The pro-cess of summarization can use titles, as in (Blais etal., 2007) and (Amini et al, 2005), thus demonstrat-ing their importance.
Automatic summarization pro-vides a set of relevant sentences extracted from thetext: The total number of sentences is diminished,but sentences are not shortened by themselves.
Ul-timately reducing the number to one does not pro-vide a title, since the latter is very rarely a sentence,but needs to be grammatically consistent.
It is alsonecessary to differentiate automatic titling from textcompression: Text compression might shorten sen-tences but keep the original number of sentences(Yousfi-Monod and Prince, 2008).
Mixing both ap-proaches appears as a very costly process to under-take, more adapted to a summarization task, whentitling might be obtained by less expansive tech-niques.Titling must also be differentiated from indexa-tion because titles do not always contain the textkey-words: Headings can present a partial or totalreformulation of the text, not relevant for an index,which role is to facilitate the user?s search and re-trieval.
Once again, the construction of an index canuse titles appearing in the document.
So, if deter-mining relevant titles is a successful task, the qualityof indexation will largely be improved.An automatic titling approach, named POSTIT,extracts relevant noun phrases to be used as titles(Lopez et al, 2011b).
One of its benefits is that longtitles, syntactically correct, can be proposed.
Themain inconvenience is that it cannot provide orig-inal titles, using a funny form for example, unlessthis one already appears in the text (which can berather scarce, even in newspapers articles).
In thesame environment, a variant of this approach, calledCATIT, constructing short titles, has been developedby the same authors (Lopez et al, 2011a).
It tries tobuilt titles which are relevant to the texts.
It evalu-ates their quality by browsing the Web (popular andrecognized expressions), as well as including thosetitles dynamic context.
Applied to a corpus of jour-nalistic articles, CATIT was able to provide head-ings both informative and catchy.
However, syntac-tical patterns used for titles building were short (twoterms) and experience showed that longer titles wereoften preferred.Another approach, presented by (Banko et al,2000), consists in generating coherent summariesthat are shorter than a single sentence.
These sum-maries are called "headlines".
The main difficulty isto adjust the threshold (i.e., the length of the head-line), in order to obtain syntactically correct titles.This is the main difference with our method NOMIT,which ensures that its produced titles are always syn-tactically correct.If a system were to produce informative, catchy,and variable-sized (in number of words) titles, thenominalization of constituents seems to be an inter-esting approach.
Nominalization is a process trans-forming an adjective or a verb into a noun or nounphrase.
In a nominalized constituent, the time of theevent is not in touch with the time of the speech ofthe event (for example, "President?s departure" doesnot infer that the president already left, contrary to"The president left").
In some languages such asGerman and French, nominalization answers an ac-275tivity of conceptualization and conciseness.
In a ti-tle, it allows to focus, according to the context ofthe author, on the dimension of the event consid-ered the most relevant.
(Moirand, 1975) already no-ticed that in French journalistic articles, numeroustitles appear with a nominalized form.
This obser-vation was recently confirmed by (Herrero Cecilia,2007).
It is thus interesting to study automatic ti-tling by nominalization of constituents when dealingwith languages where it is often used.
In English, themethod stays the same, but the pattern changes: En-glish headings patterns incline towards progressivepresent (e.g.
"Tempest looming"), an infinitive formwith a past participle (e.g.
"Conference to be held"),and always with a deletion of articles.
This paper fo-cuses mostly on French because of its available data,but a shift in languages and patterns is contemplatedin a further step.3 NOMIT: Titling by NominalizingSince nominalization converts a sentence into a nounor a noun phrase, it can always be described by atransformation.
Some transformations are easy-to-do, in particular, transforming verb participles intonames or adjectives (such as defined by (Dubois andDubois-Charlier, 1970)).
For example, "arriv?
(e)"(arrived is a French verbal participle which is equalto its nominalized shape "arriv?e" (arrival).
Othersare more complex, for example the past participle"parti" (gone) which nominalized form is "d?part"(departure).
For these last ones, the use of a lexiconis necessary.The nominalization process embedded in NOMITdevelops three successive stages.
The first one con-cerns the extraction of candidates according to aclassical process in NLP: Data preparation, mor-phosyntactic labeling, selection of the data to bestudied.
The second phase consists in performinga linguistic process, including morphosyntactic andsemantic aspects.
Finally, the third phase focuses onselecting a relevant title.
Figure 1 presents the globalprocess, detailed in the following sub-sections.We chose to focus our study on journalistic ar-ticles stemming from Le Monde (year 1994), a fa-mous French daily paper, since their electronic formis available for scientific investigation.
Note that themethod presented in this paper is applicable to allFigure 1: Global process of NOMITtypes of texts (articles, news, blogs, and so forth).3.1 Extracting CandidatesThis first phase consists in extracting the candidates(cf.
section 3.2), which will be considered as poten-tial titles after a linguistic treatment.
It consists, inturn, of four steps.
The first step determines the ar-ticle relevant data (i.e.
fragments or reformulationsrepresenting at best the main information emanatingfrom the text).The described approach relies on the assumptionthat good candidate phrases can be found in the firsttwo sentences of the article.
Actually the best cov-ering rate of the words of real titles is obtained withthese first sentences (see (Baxendale, 1958), (Vinet,1993), (Jacques and Rebeyrolle, 2004), and (Lopezet al, 2011b) regarding the POSTIT approach), jus-tifying this choice.
So, here, the selection of relevantsentences (cf.
Fig.
1, step 1.a) is limited to extract-ing the first two sentences of the text.Step 1.b (cf.
Fig.
1) consists in labeling thesetwo sentences via SYGFRAN (Chauch?
and Prince,2762007), a morphosyntactic parser that tags words.Thus, the presence of a "auxiliary + past partici-ple" form syntactic pattern is tested2 (for example,"a augment?"
meaning has increased).
If such a pat-tern is recognized in the sentence, then it is retainedand goes into the following stages.
Otherwise, thesentence is ignored.
Then, sentences are pruned ac-cording to two heuristics.
(Knight and Marcu, 2002) have studied sentencecompression by using a noisy-channel model whichconsists in making the following hypothesis: Thesentence to be compressed was formerly short andthe author has extended it with additional informa-tion (noise).
Sentence compression, could, at a firstglance, appear as a possible clue, however, our ap-proach does not aim at reducing at most the treatedsentence.
Indeed, elements which can be pruned toobtain a good summary do not always need to bepruned to obtain a good title.
So, the NOMIT sen-tence pruning step (cf.
Fig.
1, step 1.c) does not onlypreserve the governors3.
Here, the text is prunedaccording to three heuristics, inspired from (Yousfi-Monod and Prince, 2008), focusing on the functionand position of constituents in the syntactic tree:1.
Elimination of dates (for example "The disap-pointing performance, on Sunday, October 9th,of S?gol?ne Royal" becomes "The disappoint-ing performance of S?gol?ne Royal "),2.
Elimination of phrases directly juxtaposed to apast participle (for example "He chose, whilehe was still hesitating, to help him" becomes"He chose to help him"),3.
Elimination of the relative pronoun and theproposition introduced by it ("Its presence,which was not moreover wished, was noticed"becomes "Its presence was noticed ").These three heuristics are crucial to obtain a co-herent title.
In this step, grammaticality4 and conci-sion5 must be respected.2the pattern features are tuned to French, but the same struc-ture globally applies to English too.3governors of constituents considered as indispensable tothe grammatical and semantic coherence of the sentence4The sentence must be well formed and must obey the lan-guage grammar.5a pruned sentence has to contain the relevant informationof the original sentence.Finally, both sentences are segmented accord-ing to punctuation (points, commas, colons, brack-ets, interrogation marks, exclamation marks, and soforth6) and only segments containing a "auxiliary +past participle" pattern are preserved (cf.
Fig.
1,step 1.d).
Also, segments containing pronouns arenot retained in the following steps to avoid problemsrelated to referents 7.In the following example, each step is indicatedby a reference sending back to the global processpresented in Figure 1:Original text:?
Yet they truly believed in it.
The disappointingperformance, on Sunday, October 9th, of S?-gol?ne Royal, amazed the French citizens.
Formonths, they defended their candidate on theWeb.Treatments:?
(1.a) Yet they truly believed in it.
The disap-pointing performance, on Sunday, October 9th,of S?gol?ne Royal, amazed the French citizens.?
(1.b) The disappointing performance, on Sun-day, October 9th, of S?gol?ne Royal, amazedthe French citizens.?
(1.c) The disappointing performance of S?-gol?ne Royal, amazed the French citizens.?
(1.d) amazed the French citizens8.The following step enables to determine a relevanttitle from the result obtained at step 1.d.3.2 Linguistic TreatmentThe linguistic treatment of segments, present inthose sentences retained in the previous section, isconstituted by two stages aiming at nominalizing the6Points marking an abbreviation are not obviously taken intoaccount in this step.7For example, the title "Disappointment of her partisans"would not be very informative because of the presence of "her"(unknown referent).8We shall see in the section 3.2.2 how, in some cases, it ispossible to take into account the subject, i.e.
S?gol?ne Royal inthis example.277"auxiliary + past participle" pattern.
Here, the verbalbasis is transformed into an action noun.The first step consists in obtaining the infinitiveof the verb to be nominalized from the past partici-ple.
Then, from the infinitive, possible nominalizedforms are returned.
Even if several linguistic stud-ies propose classifications by families of suffixes, itis complex to process them automatically.
The useof a lexicon is a good solution allowing to ensure acorrect nominalized form.3.2.1 Semantic TreatmentFrom past participle towards infinitive verb.In step 1.b, segments of sentences containing the"auxiliary + past participle" syntactic pattern wereextracted.
For every past participle extracted, theendings of conjugation are eliminated, and onlyradicals are preserved (for example, "mang?es"(eaten) becomes "mang" (eat) (cf.
Fig.
1, step2.a).
Afterwards, every radical is associated with itsinfinitive verb using a lexicon9 built for that purposefrom the data established by the parser SYGFRAN(cf.
Fig.
1, step 2.b).From infinitive verb towards the verb action.JeuxDeMots10 is a French serious game enablingthe construction of a lexical network via a recre-ational activity proposed on the Web.
The prototypewas created in 2008 (Lafourcade and Zampa, 2007).Today, more than 238,000 terms and more than1,200,000 relations constitute the network.
Thispopular, evolutionary, and good quality network,possesses a satisfactory knowledge coverage.
All inall, more than 40 types of relations were recordedin the network.
One of them interests us more par-ticularly: The relation called "verb action".
This"action" is very interesting for obtaining a nominal-ized form, in particular for verbs having their struc-ture modified during their nominalization (additionof suffix or prefix in particular).
For example, weobtain "d?part" (departure) from the infinitive "par-tir" (to leave)(cf.
Fig.
1, step 2.c).Let us note that several action names can exist forthe same verb.
For example, "annonce" (announce-ment) and "annonciation" (annunciation) are two ac-tions of the verb "annoncer" (to announce).
At this9this lexicon contains 5,897 entries.10http://www.jeuxdemots.orgstage, all action names are preserved and will beconsidered in the next phase, consisting in nominal-izing the candidates determined in the step before.3.2.2 Morphosyntactic TreatmentThe morphosyntactic processing aims at estab-lishing rules that automatically transform a con-stituent into its nominalized form.
The purpose isnot to establish an exhaustive list of transformationrules but to assure a correct transformation.To transpose the agents of a verb into a nominal-ized constituent, the French language makes a pro-ficient use of prepositions.
So when nominalizing"auxiliary + past participle" in order to connect itwith its complement, the preposition "de" ("of") ismandatory11.
In English, although "X of Y" is anaccepted pattern, the genitive form "Y(?s) X" wouldbe preferred.
If the complement does not exist, thesubject takes its place.?
Rule 1: Subject + Aux + PP + Complement =>Verb action + (de) + Complement?
Original sentence: Il a annonc?
les gag-nants (He announced the winners)?
Radicalisation (2.a): Annonc?
Infinitive (2.b): Annoncer?
Actions associated to the infinitive (2.c):Annonce ; annonciation?
Nominalization (2.d): Annonce des gag-nants (Announcement of the winners orWinners?
announcement ) ; annonciationdes gagnants (Annunciation of the winnersor Winners?
annunciation)?
Rule 2: Subject + Aux + PP => Action of theverb + (de) + Subject?
Original sentence: Le pr?sident a d?mis-sionn?
(The president resigned)?
Radicalisation (2.a): D?mission?
Infinitive (2.b): D?missionner?
Actions associated to the infinitive (2.c):D?mission (Resignation)?
Nominalization (2.d): D?mission dupr?sident (Resignation of the president orPresident?s resignation)11The preposition can be contracted if needed ("de le" = "du","de les" = "des", and so forth.
)278In section 3.1, relative subordinate pronoun andsubordinate clauses are eliminated because the in-formation they convey is too secondary to be empha-sized in a title.
For example, "My cousin, who livesin Paris, moved" becomes "My cousin moved".
So,according to the second rule, the nominalized formwill be "Moving of my cousin" and not "Moving ofmy cousin who lives in Paris".The third rule leads to titles with a very popularform in French newspapers.
It is about contextual-izing the information via the use of a proper noun.So, if in the treated constituent a single proper nounappears (easily locatable by the presence of a capitalletter), the common noun can be put in connectionwith the nominalized past participle (without con-cluding that this common noun is an agent of thenominalized verb).
This new rule produces titleswith the following form: "Proper noun: verb action+ Prep + Complement".
For example, "S?gol?ne re-turned to Strasburg" becomes "S?gol?ne: Strasburgcomeback".?
Rule 3: Subject + Aux + PP => Proper Noun:Verb action + (de) + Complement (if it existsonly one proper noun in the subject)?
Original sentence: Bon nombre de par-ticuliers se sont pr?cipit?s (rushed)auxguichets des banques pour souscrire ?
desPEL (Several individuals rushed to bankcounters and subscribed to home-buyingsavings plans)?
Radicalisation (2.a): Pr?cipit?
Infinitive (2.b): Pr?cipiter?
Action associated to the infinitive (2.c):Pr?cipitation?
Nominalization (2.d): PEL : pr?cipitationaux guichets des banques (Home BuyingSaving plans: Rush at Banks Counters)Section 3.2.1, pointed that several nominalizedforms were possible for the same verb.
So, the phaseof linguistic treatment enables to determine a list ofpossible noun forms for every constituent.
For ex-ample, if in step 1 we had "The restaurant Gazza,situated in a business area, announced a new price",rule 1 would transform this sentence into two can-didates: "Gazza: New price announcement" and"Gazza: New price annunciation" (queer indeed!
).The following phase consists in selecting the mostrelevant candidate.3.3 Selecting a TitleThe selection of the most relevant title relies on aWeb validation (cf.
Fig.
1, stage 3).
A segment thatfrequently appears on the Web tends to be seen as:(1) popular, (2) structurally sound.
Thus, the fre-quency of appearance of n-grams on the Web (viathe Google search engine) appears as a good indica-tor of the n-gram popularity/soundness (Keller andLapata, 2003) .
In our case, a n-gram is a segment ofthe nominalized constituent, constituted by the nom-inalized past participle (NPP) and by the prepositionfollowed by the short complement (i.e.
reduced tothe common noun).The benefit of this validation is double.
On onehand, it backs up the connection between the NPPand the complement (or subject according to the ruleof used transformation).
On the other hand, it helpseliminating semantically incorrect or unpopular con-stituents (for example, "Winners?
annunciation") toprefer those which are more popular on the Web (forexample, "Winners?
announcement") 12.3.4 DiscussionOur automatic titling approach (NOMIT) proposestitles for journalistic articles containing a "auxiliary+ past participle" form in at least one of its first twosentences.
The rationale for such a method is notonly conciseness, but also presentation: How to gen-erate a heading inciting the reader to go further on.Of course, transformation rules such as those pre-sented here, can be numerous and various, and de-pend on language, genre, and purpose.
The basicpurpose of this work is to provide a sort of a "proofof concept", in which relevant titles might be auto-matically shaped.12We do not here claim to select the most coherent con-stituents regarding the text.
Since the main hypothesis underly-ing this study is that the first two sentences of the article containthe necessary and sufficient information to determine a relevanttitle, we consider implicitly obtaining nominalized constituents,that are relevant to the text2794 EvaluationEvaluation of titles is a difficult and boring task.That is why we set up an online evaluation to sharethe amount of work.
A call for participation wassubmitted in the French community of researchers(informatics, linguistics).
Even if we do not knowthe information relative to every annotator (national-ity, age, etc.
), we think that a great majority of theseannotators have a rather good level in French, tojudge titles (this is confirmed by the well-writing ofthe collected definitions for "relevance" and "catch-iness").NOMIT has been evaluated according to two pro-tocols.
The first one consisted in a quantitativeevaluation, stemming from an on-line user evalua-tion13.
103 people have participated to this evalua-tion.
The second was an evaluation performed by 3judges.
This last one enables to compute the agree-ment inter-judges on the various criteria of the eval-uation process.
In both cases, the French daily paperLe Monde (1994) is used, thus avoiding any con-nection to the subjectivity of recent news personalanalysis.4.1 Quantitative Evaluation4.1.1 Protocol DescriptionAs previously seen, titles proposed by automaticmethods cannot be automatically evaluated.
So, anon-line evaluation was set up, opened to every per-son.
The interest of such an evaluation is to comparethe various methods of automatic titling (cf.
section2) according to several judgments.
So, for every textproposed to the human judges, four titles were pre-sented, each resulting from different methods of ti-tling:?
NOMIT: Automatic Titling by Nominalizing.?
POSTIT: Based on the extraction of nounphrases to propose them as titles.?
CATIT: Based on the construction of short ti-tles.?
Real Title (RT).13http://www.lirmm.fr/~lopez/Titrage_general/evaluation_web2/For every title, the user had to attribute one of thefollowing labels: "relevant", "rather relevant", "irrel-evant", "neutral".
Also, the user had to estimate thecatchiness, by choosing one of the following labels:"catchy", "not catchy", "neutral".
Before beginningthe evaluation, the user is asked about his/her owndefinition of a relevant title and of a catchy title(all in all, 314 definitions were collected).
Globally,there is a popular consensus saying that a title is rel-evant if it is syntactically correct while reflecting theessential idea conveyed in the document.
However,definitions of catchiness were less consensual.
Hereare some collected definitions:1.
A title is catchy if the words association is syn-tactically correct but semantically "surprising".However, a catchy title has to be close to thecontents of the text.2.
A catchy title is a title which tempts the readerinto going through the article.3.
A title which holds attention, a title which weremember, a funny title for example.4.
A title which is going to catch my attention be-cause it corresponds to my expectations or mycenters of personal interests.5.
A catchy title is a short and precise title.The titled texts were distributed to the judges in arandom way.
Every title was estimated by a numberof persons between 2 and 10.
All in all, 103 personsparticipated in the evaluation of NOMIT.Let p1 be the number of titles considered relevant,p2 the number of titles considered rather relevant,and let p3 be the number of titles considered irrel-evant.
Within the framework of this evaluation, itis considered that a title is relevant if p1 ?
p3, andrather relevant if p2 ?
p3.A title is considered "catchy" if at least two judgesconsidered it catchy.4.1.2 ResultsIn spite of the weak number of titles estimated inthis first evaluation, the significant number of judgeshelped obtaining representative results.
In our ex-periments, 53 titles generated by the NOMIT ap-proach were evaluated representing a total of 360280evaluations.
These results were compared with the200 titles generated with POSTIT, 200 with CATIT,and 200 RT (653 titles and 8354 evaluations).
Re-sults (cf.
Table 1) show that 83% of the titles pro-posed by NOMIT were seen as relevant or ratherrelevant, against 70% for the titles stemming fromthe POSTIT approach, and 37% for the titles stem-ming from CATIT.
Besides, NOMIT determines ti-tles appreciably more catchy than both POSTITand CATIT.
Concerning the real titles (RT), 87.8%were judged relevant and 80.5% were catchy, mean-ing that humans still perform better than automatedtechniques, but only slightly for the relevance crite-rion, and anyway, are not judged as perfect (refer-ence is far from absolute!
).en % Relevant Weak relevant Irrelevant Catchy Not catchyPOSTIT 39.1 30.9 30 49.1 50.9CATIT 15.7 21.3 63 47.2 52.8NOMIT 60.3 22.4 17.2 53.4 46.6RT 71.4 16.4 12.3 80.5 19.5Table 1: Evaluation Results for POSTIT, CATIT,NOMIT, and RT (Real Titles).4.2 Agreement Inter-judges4.2.1 Protocol DescriptionThis evaluation is similar to the previous one(same Web interface).
The main difference is thatwe retained the first 100 articles appeared in LeMonde 1994 which enables our approach to returna title.
Three judges estimated the real title as wellas the NOMIT title for each of the texts, that is, atotal of 600 evaluations.4.2.2 ResultsKappa coefficient (noted K) is a measure definedby (Cohen, 1960) calculating the agreement betweenseveral annotators.
It is based on the rate of ob-served concordances (Po) and on the rate of ran-dom concordances (Pe).
Here the Kappa coeffi-cient estimates the agreement inter-judges about therelevance and of catchiness of NOMIT titles (cf.
Ta-bles 2 - 4).
Considering the results and according to(Landis and Koch, 1977), judges seem to obtain anaverage concordance for the relevance of NOMIT ti-tles.
This can be justified by the fact that there is aconsensus between the three judges about the defini-tion of what is a relevant title (cf.
Table 3).
Approxi-mately 71% of the titles were considered relevant bythree judges (cf.
Table 2).On the other hand, the three judges obtain a badconcordance regarding catchiness; a catchy title forthe one, could not be catchy for the other one.
Thisis perfectly coherent with the definitions given bythe three judges:1.
A title is catchy if the association of the wordsis syntactically correct but semantically "sur-prising".2.
A catchy title is a title which drives you to readthe article.3.
A catchy title is a title which holds attention ofthe reader and tempts him/her to read the con-cerned text .So, people have judged catchiness according tosyntax, the relation between semantics of the titleand semantic of the text, or have evaluated catchi-ness according to personal interests.
The notion ofcatchiness is based on these three criteria.
So, wecould not expect a strong agreement between the as-sessors concerning the catchy character of a title (cf.Table 3).in % Relevant Irrelevant Neutral TotalRelevant 70.7 10.3 0.7 81.7Irrelevant 6.0 10.3 0.7 17.0Neutral 1.0 0.3 0.0 1.3Total 77.7 21.0 0.7 100.0Table 2: Contingency Matrix for NOMIT (relevance).in % Catchy Not Catchy Neutral TotalCatchy 13.3 7.7 0.0 21.0Not catchy 34.7 41.0 1.3 77.0Neutral 0.7 1.3 0.0 2.0Total 48.7 50.0 1.3 100.0Table 3: Contingency Matrix for NOMIT (catchiness).As a rough guide, short journalistic articles14 ob-tain better results than long articles (93% are rele-vant in that case and 69% are catchy).
It thus seems14We consider that an article is short when its number ofwords is less than 100.281K avg.
Po avg.
Pe avg.Relevance 0.42 0.81 0.67Catchiness 0.10 0.54 0.49Average 0.28 0.68 0.58Table 4: Kappa average for relevance and catchiness oftitles obtained with NOMIT.that our approach of automatic titling by nominaliza-tion is more adapted to short texts.
We are extremelyprudent concerning this interpretation because it isbased on only 29 articles.5 ConclusionAutomatic titling is a complex task because titlesmust be at once informative, catchy, and syntacti-cally correct.
Based on linguistic and semantic treat-ments, our approach determines titles among whichapproximately 80% were evaluated as relevant andmore than 60% were qualified as catchy.
Experimentand results discussion have pointed at the followingliability: The value of Kappa, the inter-judges agree-ment coefficient, is very difficult to evaluate, mostlywhen catchiness is at stake.
The main cause is that itdepends on personal interests.
It is thus necessary toask the following question: Do we have to considerthat a title is definitely catchy when at least one per-son judges it so?
Otherwise, how many people atleast?
This is still an open question and needs to befurther investigated.Also, some interesting extensions could be en-visaged: The approach presented in this paper usesthree rules of transformation based on the presenceof an auxiliary followed by a past participle.
The ad-dition of new rules would enable a syntactic enrich-ment of the titles.
So, it might be profitable to set uprules taking into account the presence of syntacticalpatterns (others than "auxiliary + past participle") toallow more texts to be titled by NOMIT.Taking the punctuation of the end of sentencesinto account might also be a promising track.
Forexample, "did it use an electric detonator?"
wouldbecome "Use of an electric detonator?".
It is an in-teresting point because the presence of a punctuationat the end of a title (in particular the exclamation orthe interrogation) constitutes a catchy criterion.Last, NOMIT is a method (easily reproducible inother languages, English in particular) that steppedout of preceding attempts in automatic headingsgeneration (POSTIT, CATIT).
Exploring syntac-tic patterns, as it does, means that increasing theamount of linguistic information in the processmight lead to a reliable heading method.
One ofthe perspectives can be to track the optimum pointbetween the richness of involved information andprocesses, and the cost of the method.
The in-cremental methodology followed from POSTIT toNOMIT tends to enhance the belief that parameters(i.e.
length, shape, relevance, etc...) for an auto-matic heading procedure have to be studied and welldefined, thus leading to a customized titling process.ReferencesMassih R. Amini, Nicolas Usunier, and Patrick Gallinari.2005.
Automatic text summarization based on word-clusters and ranking algorithms.
Advances in Informa-tion Retrieval, pages 142?156.Michele Banko, Vibhu O. Mittal, and Michael J. Wit-brock.
2000.
Headline generation based on statis-tical translation.
In Proceedings of the 38th AnnualMeeting on Association for Computational Linguis-tics, pages 318?325.
Association for ComputationalLinguistics.Phyllis B. Baxendale.
1958.
Man-made index for tech-nical literature - an experiment.
IBM Journal of Re-search and Development., pages 354?361.Antoine Blais, Iana Atanassova, Jean-Pierre Descl?s,Mimi Zhang, and Leila Zighem.
2007.
Discourse au-tomatic annotation of texts: an application to summa-rization.
In Proceedings of the Twentieth InternationalFlorida Artificial Intelligence Research Society Con-ference, May, pages 7?9.Jacques Chauch?
and Violaine Prince, Vp.
2007.
Clas-sifying texts through natural language parsing andsemantic filtering.
In 3rd International Languageand Technology Conference, pages 012?020, Poznan,Pologne, October.Jacob Cohen.
1960.
A coefficient of agreement for nom-inal scales.
Educational and psychological measure-ment, 20(1):37?46.Jean Dubois and Fran?oise Dubois-Charlier.
1970.
El?-ments de linguistique fran?aise: syntaxe.
Larousse.Juan Herrero Cecilia.
2007.
Syntaxe, s?mantiqueet pragmatique des titres des nouvelles de la pressefran?aise construits en forme de phrase nominale ouaverbale: aspects cognitifs et communicatifs.
In Lit-t?rature, langages et arts: rencontres et cr?ation,page 97.
Servicio de Publicaciones.282Marie-Paule Jacques and Josette Rebeyrolle.
2004.Titres et structuration des documents.
In Actes In-ternational Symposium: Discourse and Document.,pages 125?152.Franck Keller and Mirella Lapata.
2003.
Using the webto obtain frequencies for unseen bigrams.
Computa-tional linguistics, 29(3):459?484.Kevin Knight and Daniel Marcu.
2002.
Summariza-tion beyond sentence extraction: A probabilistic ap-proach to sentence compression.
Artificial Intelli-gence, 139(1):91?107.Mathieu Lafourcade and Virginie Zampa.
2007.
Makingpeople play for lexical acquisition.
In SNLP 2007, 7thSymposium on Natural Language Processing.
Pattaya.J.
Richard Landis and Garry G. Koch.
1977.
The mea-surement of observer agreement for categorical data.Biometrics, 33(1):159.C?dric Lopez, Violaine Prince, and Mathieu Roche.2011a.
Automatic generation of short titles.
In 5thLanguage and Technology Conference, LTC?11, pages461?465.C?dric Lopez, Violaine Prince, and Mathieu Roche.2011b.
Automatic titling of articles using positionand statistical information.
In RANLP?11: Recent Ad-vances in Natural Language Processing, pages 727?732, Hissar, Bulgarie, September.Sophie Moirand.
1975.
Le r?le anaphorique de la nom-inalisation dans la presse ?crite.
Langue fran?aise,28(1):60?78.Marie-Th?r?se Vinet.
1993.
L?aspect et la copule videdans la grammaire des titres.
Persee, 100:83?101.Mehdi Yousfi-Monod and Violaine Prince.
2008.
Sen-tence compression as a step in summarization or analternative path in text shortening.
In Coling?08: In-ternational Conference on Computational Linguistics,Manchester, UK., pages 139?142.283
