Proceedings of the NAACL HLT 2013 Demonstration Session, pages 1?4,Atlanta, Georgia, 10-12 June 2013. c?2013 Association for Computational LinguisticsDALE: A Word Sense Disambiguation System for Biomedical DocumentsTrained using Automatically Labeled ExamplesJudita Preiss and Mark StevensonDepartment of Computer Science, University of SheffieldRegent Court, 211 PortobelloSheffield S1 4DP, United Kingdomj.preiss,m.stevenson@dcs.shef.ac.ukAbstractAutomatic interpretation of documents ishampered by the fact that language containsterms which have multiple meanings.
Theseambiguities can still be found when languageis restricted to a particular domain, such asbiomedicine.
Word Sense Disambiguation(WSD) systems attempt to resolve these am-biguities but are often only able to identify themeanings for a small set of ambiguous terms.DALE (Disambiguation using AutomaticallyLabeled Examples) is a supervised WSD sys-tem that can disambiguate a wide range ofambiguities found in biomedical documents.DALE uses the UMLS Metathesaurus as botha sense inventory and as a source of infor-mation for automatically generating labeledtraining examples.
DALE is able to disam-biguate biomedical documents with the cover-age of unsupervised approaches and accuracyof supervised methods.1 IntroductionWord Sense Disambiguation (WSD) is an impor-tant challenge for any automatic text processing sys-tem since language contains ambiguous terms whichcan be difficult to interpret.
Ambiguous terms thatare found in biomedical documents include words,phrases and abbreviations (Schuemie et al 2005).Identifying the correct interpretation of ambiguousterms is important to ensure that the text can be pro-cessed appropriately.Many WSD systems developed for biomedicaldocuments are based on supervised learning, for ex-ample (McInnes et al 2007; Martinez and Baldwin,2011); these have the advantage of being more accu-rate than unsupervised approaches.
However, WSDsystems based on supervised learning rely on man-ually labeled examples consisting of instances of anambiguous term marked with their correct interpre-tations.
Manually labeled examples are very expen-sive to create and are consequently only available fora few hundred terms, with each new domain (withits specialist vocabulary) needing new examples la-beled.
The majority of supervised WSD systems arelimited to resolving a small number of ambiguousterms and, despite their accuracy, are not suitable foruse within applications.An alternative approach is to use automaticallylabeled examples which can be generated withoutmanual annotation (Leacock et al 1998).
Thesehave been used to generate an all-words WSD sys-tem that assigns senses from WordNet (Zhong andNg, 2010).
For biomedical documents the UMLSMetathesaurus (Humphreys et al 1998b) is a moresuitable lexical resource than WordNet and tech-niques have been developed to create automaticallylabeled examples for this resource (Stevenson andGuo, 2010).
However, to date, automatically labeledexamples have only been used as substitutes for am-biguous terms for which manually labeled examplesare not available, rather than using them to create aWSD system that can resolve a wider range of am-biguities in biomedical documents.DALE (Disambiguation using Automatically La-beled Examples) is an online WSD system forbiomedical documents that was developed by creat-ing automatically labeled examples for all ambigu-ous terms in the UMLS Metathesaurus.
DALE is1able to identify a meaning for any term that is am-biguous in the Metathesaurus and therefore has fargreater coverage of ambiguous terms than other su-pervised WSD systems.
Other all-words WSD sys-tems for biomedical documents are unsupervisedand do not have as high accuracy as supervised ap-proaches, e.g.
(McInnes, 2008; Agirre et al 2010).An unsupervised WSD algorithm (Humphreys et al1998a) is included in MetaMap (Aronson and Lang,2010) but is unable to resolve all types of sense dis-tinction.2 The DALE System2.1 Automatically Labeling ExamplesDALE assigns Concept Unique Identifiers (CUIs)from the UMLS Metathesaurus.
The WSD algo-rithm in DALE is based around a supervised algo-rithm (Stevenson et al 2008) trained using automat-ically labeled examples.
The examples are gener-ated using two methods: Monosemous relatives andCo-occurring concepts (Stevenson and Guo, 2010).Both approaches take a single CUI, c, as input anduse information from the UMLS Metathesaurus tosearch Medline and identify instances of c that canbe used as labeled examples.
The difference be-tween the two approaches is that they make use ofdifferent information from the Metathesaurus.Both approaches are provided with a set ofambiguous CUIs from the UMLS Metathesaurus,which represent the possible meanings of an am-biguous term, and a target number of training ex-amples to be generated for each CUI.
The UMLSMetathesaurus contains a number of data files whichare exploited within these techniques, including: 1.AMBIGLUI: a list of cases where a LUI, a particularlexical variant of a term, is linked to multiple CUIs;2.
MRCON: list of all strings and concept names inthe Metathesaurus; 3.
MRCOC: co-occurring con-cepts.For the monosemous relatives approach, thestrings of monosemous LUIs of the target CUI andits relatives are used to search Medline to retrievetraining examples.
The monosemous LUIs relatedto a CUI are defined as any LUIs associated with theCUI in MRCON table and not listed in AMBIGLUItable.
For example, one of the LUIs associated withCUI ?C0028707?
is L0875433 ?Nutrition Science?in MRCON table.
It is not listed in AMBIGLUI ta-ble and therefore considered to be a monosemousLUI of CUI ?C0028707?.
The string ?NutritionScience?
can be used to identify examples of CUI?C0028707?.The co-occurring concept approach works differ-ently: instead of using strings of monosemous LUIsof the target CUI and its relatives, the strings associ-ated with LUIs of a number of co-occurring CUIsof the target CUI and its relatives found in MR-COC table are used.
For instance, ?C0025520?,?C1524024?
and ?C0079107?
are the top three co-occurring CUIs of CUI ?C0015677?
in MRCOC ta-ble.
The strings associated with LUIs of thesethree CUIs can be used to retrieve examples of CUI?C0015677?
by searching for abstracts containingall the LUIs of the co-occurring CUIs.These approaches were used to create labeledexamples for ambiguous CUIs in the 2010AB,2011AA, 2011AB and 2012AA versions of theUMLS Metathesaurus.
Examples could be gener-ated for 95.2%, 96.2%, 96.2% and 98% of the CUIsin each version of the Metathesaurus respectively.Neither technique was able to generate examples forthe remaining CUIs, however none of these CUIs ap-pear in the corresponding MetaMapped version ofthe Medline Baseline Repository (http://mbr.nlm.nih.gov), suggesting these CUIs do not tendto be mentioned within documents.
100 exampleswere generated for each CUI since using an equalnumber of examples for each CUI produces the bestWSD performance in the absence of other informa-tion about the likelihood of each CUI (Cheng et al2012).The labeled examples are converted into featurevectors consisting of lemmas of all content words inthe same sentence as the ambiguous word and, inaddition, the lemmas of all content words in a ?4-word window around it.
A single feature vector iscreated for each CUI by taking the centroid of thefeature vectors created from the labeled examples ofthat CUI.
These vectors are stored in the CentroidDatabase for later use.2.2 Word Sense DisambiguationWSD of an ambiguous term is carried out by com-piling a list of all its possible CUIs and comparingtheir centroids against a feature vector created from2Figure 1: DALE system diagram showing the stages inthe WSD processthe sentence containing the ambiguous term.
Pro-cessing is carried out in multiple stages (see Fig.1).
MetaMap (Aronson and Lang, 2010) is appliedto the text to identify ambiguous terms (identify-ing terms includes some level of multiword detec-tion) and their possible CUIs (UMLS lookup of theidentified terms).
The input text is also fed into apipeline to carry out sentence splitting, tokenization,part-of-speech tagging and morphological analysis.Information added by this pipeline is used to cre-ate a feature vector for each ambiguous term identi-fied by MetaMap.
Finally, the Word Sense Disam-biguation module uses cosine similarity to comparethe centroid of each possible CUI of the ambiguousterm (retrieved from the Centroid Database) with theambiguous term?s feature vector (Stevenson et al2008).
The most similar CUI is selected for eachambiguous term.2.3 Online SystemDALE is available as a web service with multipleinterfaces:The Interactive interface enables a user to submita piece of text to the system and view the result in anintuitive way.
Terms in the result are marked accord-ing to their polysemy: blue denotes that it has onlyone meaning in Metathesaurus (i.e.
is not ambigu-ous) while green means that it has multiple mean-ings.
Rolling the mouse over the highlighted itemsprovides access to additional information in a tooltipstyle window, including the set of possible CUIsand their preferred names.
Clicking on one of theseCUIs links to the appropriate page from the UMLSTerminology Services (http://uts.nlm.nih.gov/).
The CUI chosen by the WSD process isshown underlined at the bottom of the window.
Theresult is also available in XML format which can bedownloaded by clicking a link in the result page.The Batch interface is more suitable for disam-biguating large amounts of texts.
A user can uploadplain text files to be processed by DALE using thebatch interface.
The results will be sent to user?semail address in XML format as soon as the systemfinishes processing the file.
This interface is sup-ported by a Job management interface.
A job is cre-ated every time a user uploads a file and each job as-signed the status of being either ?Waiting?
or ?Run-ning?.
The user is also emailed a pin code allowingthem to access this interface to check the status oftheir jobs and cancel any waiting jobs.3 ConclusionThis paper describes DALE, a WSD system forthe biomedical domain based on automatically la-beled examples.
The system is able to disambiguateall ambiguous terms found in the UMLS Metathe-saurus.
A freely accessible web service is availableand offers a set of easy to use interfaces.
We intendto update DALE with new versions of the UMLSMetathesaurus as they become available.The DALE system is available at http://kta.rcweb.dcs.shef.ac.uk/dale/AcknowledgmentsThe authors are grateful to Weiwei Cheng for hiswork on the development of the original version ofthe DALE system.
The development of DALE wasfunded by the UK Engineering and Physical Sci-ences Research Council (grants EP/H500170/1 andEP/J008427/1) and by a Google Research Award.We would also like to thank the three reviewerswhose feedback has improved the clarity of this pa-per.ReferencesE.
Agirre, A. Sora, and M. Stevenson.
2010.
Graph-based word sense disambiguation of biomedical docu-ments.
Bioinformatics, 26(22):2889?2896.A.
Aronson and F. Lang.
2010.
An overviewof MetaMap: historical perspective and recent ad-3Figure 2: Disambiguation results shown in DALE?s Interactive Interface with the ambiguous term ?cold?
selected.DALE shows the three possible CUIs for ?cold?
identified by MetaMap with the selected CUI (C0009443) highlightedvances.
Journal of the American Medical Association,17(3):229?236.W.
Cheng, J. Preiss, and M. Stevenson.
2012.
Scal-ing up WSD with Automatically Generated Examples.In BioNLP: Proceedings of the 2012 Workshop onBiomedical Natural Language Processing, pages 231?239, Montre?al, Canada.K.
Humphreys, R. Gaizauskas, S. Azzam, C. Huyck,B.
Mitchell, H. Cunningham, and Y. Wilks.
1998a.Description of the LaSIE-II System used in MUC-7.In Proceedings of the Seventh Message UnderstandingConference (MUC-7).L.
Humphreys, D. Lindberg, H. Schoolman, and G. Bar-nett.
1998b.
The Unified Medical Language System:An Informatics Research Collaboration.
Journal of theAmericanMedical Informatics Association, 1(5):1?11.C.
Leacock, M. Chodorow, and G. Miller.
1998.
Us-ing Corpus Statistics and WordNet Relations for SenseIdentification.
Computational Linguistics, 24(1):147?165.D.
Martinez and T. Baldwin.
2011.
Word sensedisambiguation for event trigger word detection inbiomedicine.
BMC Bioinformatics, 12(Suppl 2):S4.B.
McInnes, T. Pedersen, and J. Carlis.
2007.
UsingUMLS Concept Unique Identifiers (CUIs) for WordSense Disambiguation in the Biomedical Domain.
InProceedings of the Annual Symposium of the Ameri-can Medical Informatics Association, pages 533?537,Chicago, IL.Bridget McInnes.
2008.
An unsupervised vector ap-proach to biomedical term disambiguation: Integrat-ing UMLS and Medline.
In Proceedings of the ACL-08: HLT Student Research Workshop, pages 49?54,Columbus, Ohio, June.
Association for ComputationalLinguistics.M.
Schuemie, J. Kors, and B. Mons.
2005.
Word SenseDisambiguation in the Biomedical Domain.
Journalof Computational Biology, 12, 5:554?565.M.
Stevenson and Y. Guo.
2010.
Disambiguation of Am-biguous Biomedical Terms using Examples Generatedfrom the UMLS Metathesaurus.
Journal of Biomedi-cal Informatics, 43(5):762?773.M.
Stevenson, Y. Guo, R. Gaizauskas, and D. Martinez.2008.
Disambiguation of biomedical text using di-verse sources of information.
BMC Bioinformatics,9(Suppl 11):S7.Z.
Zhong and H. Ng.
2010.
It makes sense: A wide-coverage word sense disambiguation system for freetext.
In Proceedings of the ACL 2010 System Demon-strations, pages 78?83, Uppsala, Sweden.4
