Proceedings of the NAACL HLT 2013 Demonstration Session, pages 36?39,Atlanta, Georgia, 10-12 June 2013. c?2013 Association for Computational LinguisticsArgviz: Interactive Visualization of Topic Dynamics in Multi-partyConversationsViet-An NguyenDept.
of Comp.
Scienceand UMIACSUniversity of MarylandCollege Park, MDvietan@cs.umd.eduYuening HuDept.
of Comp.
Scienceand UMIACSUniversity of MarylandCollege Park, MDynhu@cs.umd.eduJordan Boyd-GraberiSchool andUMIACSUniversity of MarylandCollege Park, MDjbg@umiacs.umd.eduPhilip ResnikDepartment of Linguisticsand UMIACSUniversity of MarylandCollege Park, MDresnik@umd.eduAbstractWe introduce an efficient, interactiveframework?Argviz?for experts to analyzethe dynamic topical structure of multi-partyconversations.
Users inject their needs,expertise, and insights into models via iterativetopic refinement.
The refined topics feed into asegmentation model, whose outputs are shownto users via multiple coordinated views.1 IntroductionUncovering the structure of conversations often re-quires close reading by a human expert to be effective.Political debates are an interesting example: politicalscientists carefully analyze what gets said in debatesto explore how candidates shape the debate?s agendaand frame issues or how answers subtly (or not sosubtly) shift the conversation by dodging the questionthat was asked (Rogers and Norton, 2011).Computational methods can contribute to theanalysis of topical dynamics, for example throughtopic segmentation, dividing a conversation intosmaller, topically coherent segments (Purver, 2011);or through identifying and summarizing the topicsunder discussion (Blei et al 2003; Blei, 2012).
How-ever, the topics uncovered by such methods can bedifficult for people to interpret (Chang et al 2009),and previous visualization frameworks for topicmodels?e.g., ParallelTopics (Dou et al 2011), Top-icViz (Eisenstein et al 2012), the Topical Guide,1 ortopic model visualization (Chaney and Blei, 2012)?are not particularly well suited for linearly structuredconversations.This paper describes Argviz, an integrated, inter-active system for analyzing the topical dynamics of1http://tg.byu.edu/multi-party conversations.
We bring together previ-ous work on Interactive Topic Modeling (ITM) (Huet al 2011), which allows users to efficiently injecttheir needs, expertise, and insights into model build-ing via iterative topic refinement, with Speaker Iden-tity for Topic Segmentation (SITS) (Nguyen et al2012), a state-of-the-art model for topic segmenta-tion and discovery of topic shifts in conversations.Argviz?s interface allows users to quickly grasp thetopical flow of the conversation, discern when thetopic changes and by whom, and interactively visual-ize the conversation?s details on demand.2 System OverviewOur overall system consists of three steps: (1) datapreprocessing, (2) interactive topic modeling, and (3)conversational topic segmentation and visualization.Data preprocessing Preprocessing creates bags ofwords that can be used by models.
First, stopwordsand low frequency terms are removed from tokenizedtext.
This is then used as the data for topic modeling.Interactive topic modeling The topic model-ing process then discovers?through posteriorinference?the topics that best explain the conver-sational turns.
Each of the topics is a multinomialdistribution over words, which can be displayed tousers along with the association of turns (documents)to these topics.The result of topic modeling may be imperfect;we give users an opportunity to refine and curate thetopics using Interactive Topic Modeling (ITM) (Huet al 2011).
The feedback from users is encodedin the form of correlations: word types that shouldco-occur in a topic or which should not.
As thesecorrelations are incorporated into the model, the top-ics learned by the model change and are presented36again to the user.
The process repeats over multipleiterations until the user is satisfied.In addition, a simple but important part of theinteractive user experience is the ability for users tolabel topics, i.e., to identify a ?congress?
topic thatincludes ?bill?, ?vote?, ?representative?, etc.ITM is a web-based application with a HTML andjQuery2 front end, connected via Ajax and JSON.Topic segmentation After the user has built inter-pretable topics, we use SITS?a hierarchical topicmodel (Nguyen et al 2012)?to jointly discover theset of topics discussed in a given set of conversationsand how these topics change during each conversa-tion.
We use the output of ITM to initialize SITS3with a high quality user-specific set of topics.
Theoutputs of SITS consist of (1) a set of topics, (2) adistribution over topics for each turn, and (3) a proba-bility associated with each turn indicating how likelythe topic of that turn has been shifted.The outputs of SITS are displayed using Argviz(Figure 2).
Argviz is a web-based application, builtusing Google Web Toolkit (GWT),4 which allowsusers to visualize and manipulate SITS?s outputs en-tirely in their browser after a single server request.3 Argviz: Coordinated ConversationalViewsGiven the limited screen of a web browser, Argvizfollows the multiple coordinated views approach(Wang Baldonado et al 2000; North and Shneider-man, 2000) successfully used in Spotfire (Ahlberg,1996), Improvise (Weaver, 2004), and SocialAc-tion (Perer and Shneiderman, 2006).
Argviz supportsthree main coordinated views: transcript, overviewand topic.Transcript occupies the prime real estate for aclose reading.
It has a transcript panel and a speakerpanel.
The transcript panel displays the original tran-script.
Each conversational turn is numbered andcolor-coded by speaker.
The color associated witheach speaker can be customized using the speakerpanel, which lists all the speakers.2 http://jquery.com/3Through per-word topic assignments4 https://developers.google.com/web-toolkit/Overview shows how topics gain and lose promi-nence during the conversation.
SITS?s outputs in-clude a topic distribution and a topic shift probabilityfor each turn in the conversation.
In Argviz, these arerepresented using a heatmap and topic shift column.In the heatmap, each turn-specific topic distribu-tion is displayed by a heatmap row (Sopan et al2013).
There is a cell for each topic, and the colorintensity of each cell is proportional to the probabilityof the corresponding topic of a particular turn.
Thus,users can see the topical flow of the conversationthrough the vertical change in cells?
color intensitiesas the conversation progresses.
In addition, the topicshift column shows the topic shift probability (in-ferred by SITS) using color-coded bar charts, helpingusers discern large topic changes in the conversation.Each row is associated with a turn in the conversation;clicking on one shifts the transcript view.Topic displays the set of topics learned by SITS(primed by ITM), with font-size proportional to thewords?
topic probabilities.
The selected topic panelgoes into more detail, with bar charts showing thetopic-word distribution.
For example, in Figure 2, theForeign Affairs topic in panel E has high probabilitywords ?iraq?, ?afghanistan?, ?war?, etc.
in panel F.4 Demo: Detecting 2008 Debate DodgesVisitors will have the opportunity to experiment withthe process of analyzing the topical dynamics of dif-ferent multi-party conversations.
Multiple datasetswill be preprocessed and set up for users to chooseand analyze.
Examples of datasets that will be avail-able include conversation transcripts from CNN?sCrossfire program and debates from the 2008 and2012 U.S. presidential campaigns.
For this section,we focus on examples from the 2008 campaign.Interactive topic refinement After selecting adataset and a number of topics, the first thing a usercan do is to label topics.
This will be used later inArgviz and helps users build a mental model of whatthe topics are.
For instance, the user may rename thesecond topic ?Foreign Policy?.After inspecting the ?Foreign Policy?
topic, theuser may notice the omission of Iran from the mostprobable words in the topic.
A user can remedy thatby adding the words ?Iran?
and ?Iranians?
into the37Figure 1: ITM user interface for refining a topic.
Users can iteratively put words into different ?bins?, label topics, andadd new words to the topic.
Users can also click on the provided links to show related turns for each topic in context.Figure 2: The Argviz user interface consists of speaker panel (A), transcript panel (B), heatmap (C), topic shift column(D), topic cloud panel (E), selected topic panel (F).38important words bin (Figure 1).
Other bins includeignored words for words that should be removed (e.g.,?thing?
and ?work?
from this topic) from the topicand trash (e.g., ?don?, which is a stop word).The user can commit these changes by pressing theSave changes button.
The back end relearns giventhe user?s feedback.
Once users are satisfied withthe topic quality, they can click on the Finish buttonto stop updating topics and start running the SITSmodel, initialized using the final set of refined topics.Visual analytic of conversations After SITS fin-ishes (which takes just a few moments), users see thedataset?s conversations in the Argviz interface.
Fig-ure 2 shows Argviz displaying the 2008 vice presiden-tial debate between Senator Joe Biden and GovernorSarah Palin, moderated by Gwen Ifill.Users can start exploring the interface from anyof the views described in Section 3 to gain insightabout the conversation.
For example, a user maybe interested in seeing how the ?Economy?
is dis-cussed in the debates.
Clicking on a topic in the topiccloud panel highlights that column in the heatmap.The user can now see where the ?Economy?
topicis discussed in the debate.
Next to the heatmap, thetopic shift column when debate participants changedthe topic.
The red bar in turn 48 shows an interac-tion where Governor Palin dodged a question on the?bankruptcy bill?
to discuss her ?record on energy?.Clicking on this turn shows the interaction in thetranscript view, allowing a closer reading.Users might also want to contrast the topics thatwere discussed before and after the shift.
This canbe easily done with the coordination between theheatmap and the topic cloud panel.
Clicking on acell in the heatmap will select the correspondingtopic to display in the selected topic panel.
In ourexample, the topic of the conversation was shiftedfrom ?Economy?
to ?Energy?
at turn 48.5 ConclusionArgviz is an efficient, interactive framework that al-lows experts to analyze the dynamic topical structureof multi-party conversations.
We are engaged in col-laborations with domain experts in political scienceexploring the application of this framework to politi-cal debates, and collaborators in social psychologyexploring the analysis of intra- and inter-cultural ne-gotiation dialogues.References[Ahlberg, 1996] Ahlberg, C. (1996).
Spotfire: an informa-tion exploration environment.
SIGMOD, 25(4):25?29.
[Blei, 2012] Blei, D. M. (2012).
Probabilistic topic mod-els.
Communications of the ACM, 55(4):77?84.
[Blei et al 2003] Blei, D. M., Ng, A., and Jordan, M.(2003).
Latent Dirichlet alcation.
JMLR, 3.
[Chaney and Blei, 2012] Chaney, A. J.-B.
and Blei, D. M.(2012).
Visualizing topic models.
In ICWSM.
[Chang et al 2009] Chang, J., Boyd-Graber, J., Wang, C.,Gerrish, S., and Blei, D. M. (2009).
Reading tea leaves:How humans interpret topic models.
In NIPS.
[Dou et al 2011] Dou, W., Wang, X., Chang, R., and Rib-arsky, W. (2011).
ParallelTopics: A probabilistic ap-proach to exploring document collections.
In VAST.
[Eisenstein et al 2012] Eisenstein, J., Chau, D. H., Kittur,A., and Xing, E. (2012).
TopicViz: interactive topicexploration in document collections.
In CHI.
[Hu et al 2011] Hu, Y., Boyd-Graber, J., and Satinoff, B.(2011).
Interactive topic modeling.
In ACL.
[Nguyen et al 2012] Nguyen, V.-A., Boyd-Graber, J., andResnik, P. (2012).
SITS: A hierarchical nonparametricmodel using speaker identity for topic segmentation inmultiparty conversations.
In ACL.
[North and Shneiderman, 2000] North, C. and Shneider-man, B.
(2000).
Snap-together visualization: a userinterface for coordinating visualizations via relationalschemata.
In AVI, pages 128?135.
[Perer and Shneiderman, 2006] Perer, A. and Shneider-man, B.
(2006).
Balancing systematic and flexibleexploration of social networks.
IEEE Transactions onVisualization and Computer Graphics, 12(5):693?700.
[Purver, 2011] Purver, M. (2011).
Topic segmentation.
InSpoken Language Understanding: Systems for Extract-ing Semantic Information from Speech.
[Rogers and Norton, 2011] Rogers, T. and Norton, M.
I.(2011).
The artful dodger: Answering the wrong ques-tion the right way.
Journal of Experimental Psychology:Applied, 17(2):139?147.
[Sopan et al 2013] Sopan, A., Freier, M., Taieb-Maimon,M., Plaisant, C., Golbeck, J., and Shneiderman, B.(2013).
Exploring data distributions: Visual designand evaluation.
JHCI, 29(2):77?95.
[Wang Baldonado et al 2000] Wang Baldonado, M. Q.,Woodruff, A., and Kuchinsky, A.
(2000).
Guidelinesfor using multiple views in information visualization.In AVI, pages 110?119.
[Weaver, 2004] Weaver, C. (2004).
Building highly-coordinated visualizations in Improvise.
In INFOVIS.39
