Tutorials, NAACL-HLT 2013, pages 16?18,Atlanta, Georgia, June 9 2013. c?2013 Association for Computational LinguisticsMorphological, Syntactical and SemanticKnowledge in Statistical Machine TranslationMarta R.
Costa-jussa`?, Chris Quirk?
?Institute for Infocomm Research?Microsoft Researchmartaruizcostajussa@gmail.comchrisq@microsoft.com1 OverviewThis tutorial focuses on how morphology, syntax and semantics may be introducedinto a standard phrase-based statistical machine translation system with techniquessuch as machine learning, parsing and word sense disambiguation, among others.Regarding the phrase-based system, we will describe only the key theory be-hind it.
The main challenges of this approach are that the output contains unknownwords, wrong word orders and non-adequate translated words.
To solve these chal-lenges, recent research enhances the standard system using morphology, syntaxand semantics.Morphologically-rich languages have many different surface forms, even thoughthe stem of a word may be the same.
This leads to rapid vocabulary growth, as var-ious prefixes and suffixes can combine with stems in a large number of possiblecombinations.
Language model probability estimation is less robust because manymore word forms occur rarely in the data.
This morphologically-induced sparsitycan be reduced by incorporating morphological information into the SMT system.We will describe the three most common solutions to face morphology: preprocess-ing the data so that the input language more closely resembles the output language;using additional language models that introduce morphological information; andpost-processing the output to add proper inflections.Syntax differences between the source and target language may lead to signif-icant differences in the relative word order of translated words.
Standard phrase-based SMT systems surmount reordering/syntactic challenges by learning fromdata.
Most approaches model reordering inside translation units and using sta-tistical methodologies, which limits the performance in language pairs with dif-ferent grammatical structures.
We will briefly introduce some recent advances in16SMT that use modeling approaches based on principles more powerful flat phrasesand better suited to the hierarchical structures of language: SMT decoding withstochastic synchronous context free grammars and syntax-driven translation mod-els.Finally, semantics are not directly included in the SMT core algorithm, whichmeans that challenges such as polysemy or synonymy are either learned directlyfrom data or they are incorrectly translated.
We will focus on recent attempts tointroduce semantics into statistical-based systems by using source context infor-mation.The course material will be suitable both for attendees with limited knowledgeof the field, and for researchers already familiar with SMT who wish to learn aboutmodern tendencies in hybrid SMT.
The mathematical content of the course includeprobability and simple machine learning, so reasonable knowledge of statistics andmathematics is required.
There will be a small amount of linguistics and ideas fromnatural language processing.2 Outline1.
Statistical Machine Translation?
Introduction to Machine Translation approaches?
Phrase-based systems2.
Morphology in SMT?
Types of languages in terms of morphology?
Enriching source language?
Inflection generation?
Class-based language models3.
Syntax in SMT4.
Semantics in SMT?
Sense disambiguation?
Context-dependent translations173 Speaker BiosMarta R. Costa-jussa`1, Institute for Infocomm Research (I2R), is a Telecommu-nication?s Engineer by the Universitat Polite`cnica de Catalunya (UPC, Barcelona)and she received her PhD from the UPC in 2008.
Her research experience ismainly in Automatic Speech Recognition, Machine Translation and InformationRetrieval.
She has worked at LIMSI-CNRS (Paris), Barcelona Media InnovationCenter (Barcelona) and the Universidade de Sao Paulo (Sa?o Paulo).
Since Decem-ber 2012 she is working at Institute for Infocomm Research (Singapore) imple-menting the IMTraP project (?Integration of Machine Translation Paradigms?)
onHybrid Machine Translation, funded by the European Marie Curie InternationalOutgoing European Fellowship program.
She is currently organizing the ACLWorkshop HyTRA 2013 and she will be teaching a summer school course on hy-brid machine translation at ESSLLI 2013.Chris Quirk2, Microsoft Research.
After studying Computer Science andMathematics at Carnegie Mellon University, Chris joined Microsoft in 2000 towork on the Intentional Programming project, an extensible compiler and develop-ment framework.
He moved to the Natural Language Processing group in 2001,where his research has mostly focused on statistical machine translation poweringMicrosoft Translator, especially on several generations of a syntax directed transla-tion system that powers over half of the translation systems.
He is also interested insemantic parsing, paraphrase methods, and very practical problems such as spellingcorrection and transliteration.1http://www.costa-jussa.com2http://research.microsoft.com/en-us/people/chrisq/18
