Proceedings of NAACL-HLT 2013, pages 280?287,Atlanta, Georgia, 9?14 June 2013. c?2013 Association for Computational LinguisticsClassification of South African languages using text and acoustic basedmethods: A case of six selected languagesPeleira Nicholas ZuluUniversity of KwaZulu-NatalElectrical, Electronic andComputer EngineeringDurban, 4041, South Africazulup1@ukzn.ac.zaAbstractLanguage variations are generally known tohave a severe impact on the performance ofHuman Language Technology Systems.
In or-der to predict or improve system performance,a thorough investigation into these variations,similarities and dissimilarities, is required.Distance measures have been used in severalapplications of speech processing to analyzedifferent varying speech attributes.
However,not much work has been done on language dis-tance measures, and even less work has beendone involving South African languages.
Thisstudy explores two methods for measuring thelinguistic distance of six South African lan-guages.
It concerns a text based method, (theLevenshtein Distance), and an acoustic ap-proach using extracted mean pitch values.
TheLevenshtein distance uses parallel word tran-scriptions from all six languages with as littleas 144 words, whereas the pitch method istext-independent and compares mean languagepitch differences.
Cluster analysis resultingfrom the distance matrices from both methodscorrelates closely with human perceptual dis-tances and existing literature about the six lan-guages.1 IntroductionThe development of objective metrics to assess thedistances between different languages is of greattheoretical and practical importance.
Currently,subjective measures have generally been employedto assess the degree of similarity or dissimilaritybetween different languages (Gooskens &Heeringa, 2004; Van-Bezooijen & Heeringa, 2006;Van-Hout & M?nstermann, 1981), and those sub-jective decisions are, for example, the basis forclassifying separate languages, and certain groupsof language variants as dialects of one another.
It iswell known that languages are complex; they differin vocabulary, grammar, writing format, syntaxand many other characteristics.
This presents levelsof difficulty in the construction of objective com-parative measures between languages.
Even if oneintuitively knows, for example, that English iscloser to French than it is to Chinese, what are theobjective factors that allow one to assess the levelsof distance?This bears substantial similarities to the analo-gous questions that have been asked about the rela-tionships between different species in the scienceof cladistics.
As in cladistics, the most satisfactoryanswer would be a direct measure of the amount oftime that has elapsed since the languages?
first splitfrom their most recent common ancestor.
Also, asin cladistics, it is hard to measure this from theavailable evidence, and various approximatemeasures have to be employed instead.
In the bio-logical case, recent decades have seen tremendousimprovements in the accuracy of biological meas-urements as it has become possible to measure dif-ferences between DNA sequences.
In linguistics,the analogue of DNA measurements is historicalinformation on the evolution of languages, and themore easily measured?though indirect measure-ments (akin to the biological phenotype)?are ei-ther the textual or acoustic representations of thelanguages in question.280In the current article, we focus on language dis-tance measures derived from both text and acousticformats; we apply two different techniques, name-ly Levenshtein distance between orthographicword transcriptions, and distances between lan-guage pitch means in order to obtain measures ofdissimilarity amongst a set of languages.
Thesemethods are used to obtain language groupingswhich are represented graphically using multidi-mensional scaling and dendrograms?two standardstatistical techniques.
This allows us to visualizeand assess the methods relative to known linguisticfacts in order to judge their relativereliability(Zulu, Botha, & Barnard, 2008).Our evaluation is based on six of the elevenofficial languages of South Africa.1 The elevenofficial languages fall into two distinct groups,namely the Germanic group (represented by Eng-lish and Afrikaans) and the South African Bantulanguages, which belong to the South Eastern Ban-tu group.
The South African Bantu languages canfurther be classified in terms of different sub-groupings: Nguni (consisting of Zulu, Xhosa, Nde-bele and Swati), Sotho (consisting of Southern So-tho, Northern Sotho and Tswana), and a pair thatfalls outside these sub-families (Tsonga and Ven-da).
The six languages chosen for our evaluationare English, Afrikaans, Zulu, Xhosa, Northern So-tho (also known as Sepedi) and Tswana, whichequally represent the three groups; Germanic,Nguni and Sotho.We believe that an understanding of these lan-guage distances is not only of inherent interest, butalso of great practical importance.
For purposessuch as language learning, the selection of targetlanguages for various resources and the develop-ment of Human Language Technologies, reliableknowledge of language distances would be of greatvalue.
Consider, for example, the common situa-tion of an organization that wishes to publish in-formation relevant to all languages in a particularmulti-lingual community, but has insufficient fund-ing to do so.
Such an organization can be guidedby knowledge of language distances and mutualintelligibility between languages to make an ap-propriate choice of publication languages.The following sections describe the Levenshteindistance and pitch characteristics in detail.
There-1Data for all eleven languages is available on the Lwazi web-site: (http://www.meraka.org.za/lwazi/index.php).after, the paper will present an evaluation on thesix languages of South Africa, highlighting lan-guage groupings and proximity patterns.
In conclu-sion, the paper discusses the results.2 Theoretical BackgroundOrthographic transcriptions are one of the mostbasic types of annotation used for speech transcrip-tion, and are particularly important in most fieldsof research concerned with spoken language.
Theorthography of a language refers to the set symbolsused to write a language and includes its writingsystem.
English, for example, has an alphabet of26 letters which includes both consonants andvowels.
However, each English letter may repre-sent more than one phoneme, and each phonememay be represented by more than one letter.
In thecurrent research, we investigate the use of Le-venshtein distance on orthographic transcriptionsfor the assessment of language similarities.On the other hand, speech has been and stillvery much is the most natural form of communica-tion.
Prosodic characteristics such as rhythm, stressand intonation in speech convey important infor-mation regarding the identity of a spoken language.Results of perception studies on spoken languageidentification confirm that prosodic information,specifically pitch and intensity?which representintonation and stress respectively?are useful forlanguage identification (Kometsu, Mori, Arai, &Murahara, 2001; Mori et al 1999).
This paper pre-sents a preliminary investigation of pitch and itsrole in determining acoustic based language dis-tances.2.1 Levenshtein DistanceThere are several ways in which phoneticians havetried to measure the distance between two linguis-tic entities, most of which are based on the descrip-tion of sounds via various representations.
Thissection introduces the Levenshtein Distance Meas-ure, one of the more popular sequence-based dis-tance measures.
In 1995 Kessler introduced the useof the Levenshtein Distance as a tool for measuringlinguistic distances between dialects (Kessler,1995).
The basic idea behind the Levenshtein Dis-tance is to imagine that one is rewriting or trans-forming one string into another.
Kesslersuccessfully applied the Levenshtein Distance281measure to the comparison of Irish dialects.
In hiswork, the strings were transcriptions of word pro-nunciations.
In general, rewriting is effected bybasic operations, each of which is associated with acost, as illustrated in Table 1 in the transformationof the string ?mo?emane?
to the string ?umfana?,which are both orthographic translations of theword boy in Northern Sotho and Zulu respectively.Operation Costmo?emaneo?emaneoemaneomaneomfaneumfaneumfanadelete mdelete ?delete einsert fsubstitute o/usubstitute e/a111122Total cost 8Table 1.
Levenshtein Distance between two strings.The Levenshtein Distance between two strings canbe defined as the least costly sum of costs neededto transform one string into another.
In Table 1, thetransformations shown are associated with costsderived from operations performed on the strings.The operations used are: (i) the deletion of a singlesymbol, (ii) the insertion of a single symbol, and(iii) the substitution of one symbol for another(Kruskal, 1999).
The edit distance method was alsotaken up by (Nerbonne et al 1996) who applied itto Dutch dialects.
Whereas Kruskal (1999) andNerbonne et al(1996) applied this method to pho-netic transcriptions in which the symbols repre-sented sounds, here the symbols were associatedwith alphabetic letters.Similarly, Gooskens and Heeringa (2004) cal-culated Levenshtein Distances between 15 Norwe-gian dialects and compared them to the distancesas perceived by Norwegian listeners.
This compar-ison showed a high correlation between the Le-venshtein distances and the perceptual distances.2.2 Language pitch distanceSpeech is primarily intended to convey some mes-sage through a sequence of legal sound units in alanguage.
However, speech cannot merely be char-acterized as a sequence of sound units.
There aresome characteristics that lend naturalness tospeech, such as the variation of pitch, which pro-vides some recognizable melodic properties tospoken language.
This controlled modulation ofpitch is referred to as intonation.
The sound unitsare shortened or lengthened in accordance to someunderlying pattern giving rhythmic properties tospeech.
The information attained from theserhythmic patterns increases the intelligibility ofspoken languages, enabling the listener to segmentcontinuous speech into phrases and words withease (Shriberg, Stolcke, Hakkani-Tur, & Tur,2000).
The characteristics that make us perceivethis and other information such as stress, accentand emotion are collectively referred to as prosody.Comparisons have shown that languages differgreatly in their prosodic features (Hirst & Cristo,1998), therefore providing a basis for objectivecomparison between languages.
Further, pitch is aperceptual attribute of sound, the physical correlateof which is fundamental frequency (F0), which rep-resents vibration of the vocal folds.This paper extracts pitch contours from six dif-ferent languages, and uses the mean fundamentalfrequency values for each language to calculate thedifferences in pitch amongst them.
From this wederive a distance matrix of F0 dissimilarities (dif-ferences) which in turn is used to obtain languagegroupings.2.3 Language ClusteringIn using the Levenshtein Distance measure, thedistance between two languages is equal to the av-erage of a sample of Levenshtein Distances of cor-responding word pairs.
With pitch, the distancebetween two languages is merely the differencebetween the mean fundamental frequencies of thetwo languages.
When we have n languages, thenthese distances are calculated for each possible pairof languages.
For n languages n x n distances canbe calculated.
The corresponding distances are ar-ranged in an n x n matrix.
The distance of eachlanguage with respect to itself is found in the dis-tance matrix on the diagonal from the upper left tothe lower right.
As this is a dissimilarity matrix,these values are always zero and therefore give noreal information, so that only n x (n - 1) distancesare relevant.
Furthermore, both the Levenshteinand pitch distances are symmetric, implying thatthe distance between language X and Y is equal tothe distance between language Y and X. Therefore,the distance matrix is symmetric.
We need to useonly one half which contains (n x (n - 1))/2 dis-282tances.
Given the distance matrix, groups of largersizes are investigated.
Hierarchical clusteringmethods are employed to classify the languagesinto related language groups using the distancematrix.Data clustering is a common technique for sta-tistical data analysis, which is used in many fieldsincluding machine learning, bioinformatics, imageanalysis, data mining and pattern recognition.Clustering is the classification of similar objectsinto different groups, or more precisely, the parti-tioning of a data set into subsets, so that the data ineach subset share some common trait according toa defined distance measure.
The result of thisgrouping is usually illustrated as a dendrogram; atree diagram used to illustrate the arrangement ofthe groups produced by a clustering algorithm(Heeringa & Gooskens, 2003), whereas multidi-mensional scaling adds to illustrate the visualiza-tion of the language proximities in a 2-dimensionalspace.3 EvaluationThis evaluation aims to present language groups ofthe six chosen languages of South Africa generatedfrom dissimilarity matrices of the languages.
Thesematrices are the results of Levenshtein distanceand average pitch distance measurements.
The dia-grams provide visual representations of the patternof similarities and dissimilarities between the lan-guages.3.1 Language grouping using LevenshteindistanceLevenshtein distances were calculated using exist-ing parallel orthographic word transcriptions of144 words from each of the six languages.
Thedata was manually collected from various multilin-gual dictionaries and online resources.
Initially,200 common English words, mostly commonnouns easily translated into the other five lan-guages, were chosen.
From this set, those wordshaving unique translations into each of the otherfive languages were selected, resulting in 144words that were used in the evaluations.
Examplesof four word translations in all six languages areshown in Table 2.Eng Afr Xho Zul N.Sot Tswfish vis intlanzi inhlanzi hlapi tlhapihouse huis indlu indlu ntlo ntlomother ma uma umama mma mmeschool skool isikolo isikole sekolo sekoleTable 2.
Example translations of four common words.Distance matrixTable 3 represents the distance matrix, containingthe distances, taken pair-wise, between the differ-ent languages as calculated from the summed Le-venshtein Distances between the 144 target words.The zero values along the diagonal axis of the ma-trix indicate no dissimilarity, making it clear thathigher values reveal high levels of dissimilaritybetween the paired languages.
The distance matrixcontains n x (n ?
1)/2 independent elements in lightof the symmetry of the distance measure.Afr Eng Xho Zul N. Sot TswAfr 0 443 984 1014 829 887Eng 443 0 981 1002 820 881Xho 984 981 0 502 867 922Zul 1014 1002 502 0 881 945N.
Sot 829 820 867 881 0 315Tsw 887 881 922 945 315 0Table 3.
Distance matrices calculated from LevenshteinDistance between 144 words.Graphical representationThe confusion matrices provide a clear indicationof the ways the languages group into families.These relationships can be represented visuallyusing graphical techniques.
Multidimensional scal-ing (MDS) is a technique used in data visualizationfor exploring the properties of data in high-dimensional spaces.
The algorithm uses a matrix ofdissimilarities between items and then assigns eachitem a location in a low dimensional space tomatch those distances as closely as possible.
Thestudy used the dissimilarity matrix to serve as ameasure between languages, and used the statisti-cal package XLSTAT (XLSTAT, 2012).
The dis-similarity matrix was input into themultidimensional scaling algorithm which mappedthe language dissimilarities in a 2-dimensionalspace.283Figure 1 shows the mapping that was createdusing the dissimilarity matrix in Table 3; we cansee that the languages from the same subfamiliesgroup together.
The mapping using just 144 wordsshows a definite grouping of the families.
In themapping the Sotho languages are more closely re-lated internally than both the Nguni and Germaniclanguages as expected ?
from the historical record(Heine & Nurse, 2000), it is clear that a tighter in-ternal grouping of the Sotho and Nguni languagesis accurate.Figure 1.
Multidimensional scale to represent dissimi-larities between languages calculated from the dissimi-larity matrix in Table 3.In conjunction with multidimensional scaling, den-drograms also provide a visual representation ofthe pattern of similarities or dissimilarities amonga set of objects.
We again used the dissimilaritymatrix in Table 3 with the statistical packageXLSTAT.Figure 2 illustrates the dendrogram derivedfrom clustering the dissimilarities between the lan-guages as depicted by the dissimilarity matrix inTable 3.
The dendrogram shows three classes rep-resenting the previously defined language group-ings, Nguni, Sotho and Germanic.
Thisdendrogram closely relates to the language group-ings described in (Heine & Nurse, 2000).Figure 2.
Dendrogram calculated from the dissimilaritymatrix of Table 3.3.2 Pitch Extraction and language groupingThe extraction of pitch contours was carried outwith Praat (Boersma & Weenink, 2011), a freescientific software program for the analysis ofspeech and phonetics.
The use of Praat is advanta-geous in that it is fairly easy to use, has high pro-cessing speed, is accurate and allows scripting,which is very useful in processing large numbersof files (in our case, speech recordings).A Praat script was written specifying two mainparameters; the expected minimum and maximumpitch values in Hertz, which were selected to be75Hz and 600Hz respectively.
The extraction ofpitch contours is based on the detection of perio-dicities.
The Praat command To PointProcess (pe-riodic, peaks)?
analyses the selected speech fileand creates a sequence of points in time.
Theacoustic periodicity detection is performed on thebasis of an accurate short-term analysis of the fun-damental frequency and the harmonics-to-noiseratio working in the autocorrelation domain as de-scribed by Boersma (Boersma, 1993).
This methodwas able to achieve more accurate and noise-resistant results when compared to combs orcepstrum based methods (Pokorny, 2011).
The ex-tracted acoustic periodicity contour is interpretedas being the frequency of an underlying sequenceof glottal closures in vocal fold vibrations.
Foreach speech file?for every voiced interval?aAfrEngXhoZulN.
SotTsw-1-0.8-0.6-0.4-0.200.20.40.60.8-1.2 -1 -0.8 -0.6 -0.4 -0.2 0 0.2 0.4 0.6 0.8 1 1.2Dim2Dim1Multidimensional ScaleXho ZulN.SotTsw AfrEng02004006008001000120014001600DissimilarityDendrogram284number of points representing glottal pulses arefound and their points in time are saved, formingthe pitch contour for that particular speech file(Pokorny, 2011).
Pitch contours were extractedfrom 5000 speech files per language for each of thesix languages, with each language having approx-imately 200 different speakers (25 recordings perspeaker) with a relatively equal distribution ofmales and females, all aged between 18 and 65years.The extracted pitch frequency points for all5000 files were collected and placed in a singlearray for each language.
Each array represents thepitch distribution for the specific language, and themean frequency for each language was used tomodel the respective language.
The dissimilaritymatrix was then derived from the differences ofthese means for each pair of languages.
Figure 3illustrates the distribution of pitch frequencies forthe selected languages.
It clearly shows the relativepitch content variations of the different languages,which is key to determining the dissimilarityamongst the languages.
Also of note in Figure 3are the peak positions representing approximatepositions of male and female fundamental frequen-cies?in the range of 85 to 180Hz for males and165 to 255 Hz for females.Figure 3.
Distribution of pitch frequencies extractedfrom 6 South African languages.Distance matrixTable 4 represents the distance matrix?containingthe distances taken pair-wise?between the differ-ent languages as calculated from the mean pitchfrequencies of the six languages.
Again, highernumbers in the matrix reflect high dissimilaritybetween the selected pair of languages.Afr Eng Xho Zul N. Sot TswAfr 0 5.1 16.09 17.11 9.66 12.61Eng 5.1 0 10.99 12.01 4.56 7.51Xho 16.09 10.99 0 1.02 6.43 3.48Zul 17.11 12.01 1.02 0 7.45 4.5N.
Sot 9.66 4.56 6.43 7.45 0 2.95Tsw 12.61 7.51 3.48 4.5 2.95 0Table 4.
Distance matrix calculated from mean pitchfrequencies of six South African languages.Graphical representationAs with the Levenshtein Distance, the relationshipsbetween the languages are represented visually inFigures 4 and 5 using graphical techniques andmultidimensional scaling.
The language dissimilar-ities are mapped on to a 2-dimensional spaceshown in Figure 4.
Here also, the languages fromthe same sub-families are grouped together.
Therelative closeness within the three sub-families isnot as clearly indicated in Figure 4 as in Figure 1,but the distinction is clearly visible.Figure 4.
Multi-dimensional scale calculated from thepitch-based matrix of Table 4.Figure 5 shows the dendrogram generated from thedissimilarities matrix of Table 4.
As in Figure 2,the dendrogram shows three classes representingAfrEngXhoZulN.
SotTsw-8-6-4-20246-8 -6 -4 -2 0 2 4 6 8 10Dim2Dim1Multidimensional Scaling285the previously defined language sub-families.
Fig-ure 5 differs from Figure 2 in the branching of thethree sub-families, where Figure 2 shows the Ger-manic languages branching from the same parentas the Sotho sub-family.
Figure 5 offers a moreaccurate account by separating the Germanic sub-group from the Bantu languages.
Thus, Figure 5depicts a more refined grouping of the languagesthan Figure 2.Figure 5.
Dendrogram calculated from the pitch-baseddistance matrix of Table 4.ConclusionBoth dissimilarity matrices resulting from the text-based Levenshtein Distance and the acoustic meanpitch frequency differences can effectively becombined with multidimensional scaling and den-drograms to epitomize language relationships.Both methods reflect the known family relation-ships between the languages being studied.
Themain conclusion of this research is therefore thatstatistical methods, used with both text-based andacoustic-based methods and data, are able to pro-vide useful objective measures of language similar-ities or dissimilarities.
It is clear that these methodscan be refined further using other inputs such asphonetic transcriptions or further acoustic meas-urements; such refinements are likely to be im-portant when, for example, fine distinctionsbetween dialects are required.However, each approach has its advantages anddisadvantages.
Levenshtein Distance measures donot require much data to perform a reasonableclassification of the data.
With as few as 50 wordsper language, reasonable classification is possible.Also, the process of generating the distance matrixis not computationally taxing.
However, this meth-od is less discriminating in assessing languageswith different writing styles, for example Chineseand English.
Using pitch bares the advantage ofusing language data in its most natural form, buthas its disadvantages in being computationally tax-ing when dealing with large amounts of data?which is generally required in order to producegood results.It would be most interesting to see whethercloser agreement between these methods can beachieved by measuring Levenshtein Distances be-tween larger text collections?perhaps even paral-lel corpora rather than translations of word lists.Comparing these distance measures with measuresderived from different acoustic parameters, or acombination of parameters, is another pressingconcern.
Finally, it would be valuable to comparevarious distance measures against other criteria forlanguage similarity (e.g.
historical separation ormutual intelligibility) in a rigorous fashion.ReferencesBoersma, P. (1993).
Accurate short-term analysis of thefundamental frequency and the harmonics-to-noiseratio of a sampled sound.
Institute of PhoneticSciences, vol 17, pp 97-110.Boersma, P, & Weenink, D. (2011).
Praat Version 5.32011. http://www.fon.hum.uva.nl/praat/ Date oflast access: 27 July.
2012Gooskens, C, & Heeringa, W. (2004).
Perceptiveevaluation of Levenshtein dialect distancemeasurements using Norwegian dialect data.Language Variation and Change vol.
16, pp.
189-207.Heeringa, W, & Gooskens, C. (2003).
Norwegiandialects examined perceptually and acoustically.Computers and the Humanities, 37, pp.
293-315.Heine, B, & Nurse, D. (2000).
African languages: Anintroduction.
Cambridge University Press.AfrEngXho ZulN.SotTsw0510152025DissimilarityDendrogram286Hirst, D, & Cristo, A Di.
(1998).
Intonation systems: Asurvey of twenty languages.
Cambridge UniversityPress, Cambridge.Kessler, B.
(1995).
Computational dialectology in IrishGaelic.
The 7th Conference of the European Chapterof the Association for Computational Linguistics, pp.60-67.Kometsu, M, Mori, K, Arai, T, & Murahara, Y.
(2001).Human language identification with reducedsegmental information: comparison betweenMonolinguals and Bilinguals.
Paper presented at theEUROSPEECH, Scandanavia.
pp 149-152.Kruskal, J B.
(1999).
An overview of sequencecomparison.
Stanford.
.Mori, K, Toba, N, Harada, T, Arai, T, Kometsu, M,Aoyagi, M, & Murahara, Y.
(1999).
Human languageidentification with reduced spectral information.Paper presented at the EUROSPEECH, Budapest,Hungary.
pp.
391-394.Nerbonne, J, Heeringa, W, Hout, E Van den, Kooi, P Vander, Otten, S, & Vis, W Van de.
(1996).
Phoneticdistance between Dutch dialects.
Sixth CLINMeeting, pp.
185-202.Pokorny, F. (2011).
Extraction of prosodic features fromspeech signals.
Graz, Austria: Institute of ElectronicMusic and Acoustics, University of Music andPerforming Arts.Shriberg, E, Stolcke, A, Hakkani-Tur, D, & Tur, G. (2000).Prosody-based automatic segmentation of speechinto sentences and topics.
Speech Communication.pp.
127-154(32).Van-Bezooijen, R, & Heeringa, W. (2006).
Intuitions onlinguistic distance: geographically or linguisticallybased?
In: Tom Koole, Jacomine Northier and BertTahitu (eds).
Artikelen van de Vijfde sociolinguisticheconferentie, pp.
77-87.Van-Hout, R, & M?nstermann, H. (1981).
Linguisticdistance, dialect and attitude.
Gramma 5, pp.
101-123.XLSTAT.
(2012).
XLSTAT.http://www.xlstat.com/en/download/.
Date ofaccess: 27 July.
2012Zulu, P N, Botha, G, & Barnard, E. (2008).
Orthographicmeasures of language distances between the officialSouth African languages Literator: Journal ofLiterary Criticism, Comparative Linguistics andLiteraty Studies  29(1), 185.287
