Proceedings of the NAACL HLT 2013 Demonstration Session, pages 5?9,Atlanta, Georgia, 10-12 June 2013. c?2013 Association for Computational LinguisticsTopic Models and Metadata for Visualizing Text CorporaJustin Snyder, Rebecca Knowles, Mark Dredze, Matthew R. Gormley, Travis WolfeHuman Language Technology Center of ExcellenceJohns Hopkins UniversityBaltimore, MD 21211{jsnyde32,mdredze,mgormley,twolfe3}@jhu.edu, rknowles@haverford.eduAbstractEffectively exploring and analyzing large textcorpora requires visualizations that provide ahigh level summary.
Past work has relied onfaceted browsing of document metadata or onnatural language processing of document text.In this paper, we present a new web-based toolthat integrates topics learned from an unsuper-vised topic model in a faceted browsing expe-rience.
The user can manage topics, filter doc-uments by topic and summarize views withmetadata and topic graphs.
We report a userstudy of the usefulness of topics in our tool.1 IntroductionWhen analyzing text corpora, such as newspaper ar-ticles, research papers, or historical archives, usersneed an intuitive way to understand and summa-rize numerous documents.
Exploratory search (Mar-chionini, 2006) is critical for large corpora that caneasily overwhelm users.
Corpus visualization toolscan provide a high-level view of the data and help di-rect subsequent exploration.
Broadly speaking, suchsystems can be divided into two groups: those thatrely on structured metadata, and those that use infor-mation derived from document content.Metadata Approaches based on metadata includevisualizing document metadata alongside a domainontology (Seeling and Becks, 2003), providing toolsto select passages based on annotated words (Cor-rell et al 2011), and using images and metadata forvisualizing related documents (Cataldi et al 2011).A natural solution for exploring via metadata isfaceted browsing (English et al 2002; Hearst, 2006;Smith et al 2006; Yee et al 2003), a paradigmfor filtering commonly used in e-commerce stores.This consists of filtering based on metadata like?brand?
or ?size?, which helps summarize the con-tent of the current document set (Ka?ki, 2005).
Stud-ies have shown improved user experiences by facil-itating user interactions through facets (Oren et al2006) and faceted browsing has been used for aid-ing search (Fujimura et al 2006) and exploration(Collins et al 2009) of text corpora.However, facets require existing structured meta-data fields, which may be limited or unavailable.
Analternative is to use NLP to show document content.Content Topic modeling (Blei et al 2003), hasbecome very popular for corpus and document un-derstanding.
Recent research has focused on aspectshighlighted by the topic model, such as topic distri-butions across the corpus, topic distributions acrossdocuments, related topics and words that make upeach topic (Chaney and Blei, 2012; Eisenstein et al2012), or document relations through topic compo-sitions (Chuang et al 2012; Gardner et al 2010).Newer work has begun to visualize documents inthe context of their topics and their metadata, such astopics incorporated with keywords and events (Cuiet al 2011).
Other examples include displayingtopic prevalence over time (Liu et al 2009) or help-ing users understand how real events shape textualtrends (Dou et al 2011).
While interfaces may becustomized for specific metadata types, e.g.
the top-ical map of National Institutes of Health fundingagencies (Talley et al 2011), these interfaces do notincorporate arbitrary metadata.52 Combining Metadata and TopicsWe present MetaToMATo (Metadata and TopicModel Analysis Toolkit), a visualization tool thatcombines both metadata and topic models in a singlefaceted browsing paradigm for exploration and anal-ysis of document collections.
While previous workhas shown the value of metadata facets, we show thattopic model output complements metadata.
Provid-ing both in a single interface yields a flexible tool.We illustrate MetaToMATo with an exampleadapted from our user study.
Consider Sarah, ahypothetical intern in the New York Times archiveroom who is presented with the following task.Your boss explains that although the NewYork Times metadata fields are fairly compre-hensive, sometimes human error leads to over-sights or missing entries.
Today you?ve beenasked to keep an eye out for documents thatmention the New York Marathon but do notinclude descriptors linking them to that event.This is corpus exploration: a user is asked to dis-cover relevant information by exploring the corpus.We illustrate the tool with a walk-through.Corpus Selection The corpus selection page (toolhome page) provides information about all availablecorpora, and allows for corpora upload and deletion.Sarah selects the New York Times corpus.Corpus Overview After selecting a corpus, theuser sees the corpus overview and configurationpage.
Across four tabs, the user is presented withmore detailed corpus statistics and can customizeher visualization experience.
The first tab showsgeneral corpus information.
The second allows forediting the inferred type (date, quantity, or string)for each metadata attribute to change filtering be-havior, hide unhelpful attributes, and choose whichattributes to ?quick display?
in the document col-lapsed view.
On the remaining two tabs, the user cancustomize date display formats and manage tags.She selects attributes ?Date?
and ?Byline?
forquick display, hides ?Series Name?, and formats?Date?
to show only the date (no times).Topics View Each topic is displayed in a box con-taining its name (initially set to its top 3 words) and alist of the top 10 words.
Top words within a topic arewords with the highest probability of appearing inthe corpus.
Each topic word is highlighted to show aFigure 1: Topics Page A view of the first row of top-ics, and the sorting selector at the top of the page.
Theleft topic is being renamed.
The second topic has beenmarked as junk.normalized probability of that word within the topic.
(Figure 1) Clicking a topic box provides more infor-mation.
Users can rename topics, label unhelpful orlow-quality topics as JUNK, or sort them in terms offrequency in the corpus,1 predicted quality,2 or junk.Sarah renames several topics, including the topic?
{running, athletes, race}?
as SPORTS and marksthe ?
{share, listed, bath}?
topic as JUNK.Documents View The document view provides afaceted browsing interface of the corpus.
(Figure 2)The pane on the right side displays the set of docu-ments returned by the current filters (search).
Eachdocument is summarized by the first 100 words andany quick view metadata.
Users can expand doc-uments to see all document metadata, a graph ofthe distribution of the topics in this document, anda graph of topics distinctive to this document com-pared to corpus-wide averages.3Sarah begins by looking at the types of documentsin the corpus, opening and closing a few documentsas she scrolls down the page.The facets pane on the left side of the page dis-plays the available facets given the current filters.Topics in a drop-down menu can be used to filtergiven a threshold.Sarah selects the value ?New York City?
for theLocation attribute and a threshold of 5% for theSPORTS topic, filtering on both facets.Values next to each metadata facet show the num-ber of documents in the current view with those at-tribute values, which helps tell the user what to ex-1Frequency is computed using topic assignments from aGibbs sampler (Griffiths and Steyvers, 2004).2Topic quality is given by the entropy of its word distribu-tion.
Other options include Mimno and Blei (2011).3The difference of the probability of a topic in the currentdocument and the topic overall, divided by value overall.6Figure 2: Left: Documents Page.
The left pane shows the available facets (topics and metadata) and the right paneshows the matching documents (collapsed view.)
Right: Expanded Document.
An expanded collapsed document isreplaced with this more detailed view, showing the entire document as well as metadata and topic graphs.pect if she refines her query.Sarah notices that the News Desk value of?Sports?
matches a large number of documents inthe current view.
She adds this filter to the currentfacet query, updating the document view.At the top of the document pane are the cur-rent view?s ?Aggregate Statistics?, which shows howmany documents match the current query.
An ex-pandable box shows graphs for the current docu-ments topic distribution and distinctive topics.4Looking at the topic graph for the current query,Sarah sees that another topic with sports relatedwords appears with high probability.
She adds it tothe search and updates the document view.Any document can be tagged with user-createdtags.
Tags and their associated documents are dis-played in the corpus overview on the configurationpage.
If a user finds a search query of interest, shecan save and name the search to return to it later.Sarah sees many documents relevant to the NewYork City Marathon.
She tags documents of interestand saves the query for later reference.2.1 Implementation DetailsOur web based tool makes it easy for users to shareresults, maintain the system, and make the toolwidely available.
The application is built with aJSP front-end, a Java back-end, and a MongoDBdatabase for storing the corpus and associated data.To ensure a fast UI, filters use an in-memory meta-data and topic index.
Searches are cached so incre-mental search queries are very fast.
The UI uses4Computed as above but with more topics displayed.Ajax and JQuery UI for dynamic loading and inter-active elements.
We easily hosted more than a dozencorpora on a single installation.3 EvaluationOur primary goal was to investigate whether incor-porating topic model output along with documentmetadata into a faceted browser provided an effec-tive mechanism for filtering documents.
Participantswere presented with four tasks consisting of a ques-tion to answer using the tool and a paragraph provid-ing context.
The first three tasks tested exploration(find documents) while the last tested analysis (learnabout article authors).
At the end of each task, theusers were directed to a survey on the tool?s useful-ness.
We also logged user actions to further evaluatehow they used the tool.3.1 Participants and Experimental SetupTwelve participants (3 female, 9 male) volunteeredafter receiving an email from a local mailing list.They received no compensation for their participa-tion and they were able to complete the experimentin their preferred environment at a convenient timeby accessing the tool online.
They were providedwith a tool guide and were encouraged to familiarizethemselves with the tool before beginning the tasks;logs suggest 8 of 12 did exploration before starting.The study required participants to find informa-tion from a selection of 10,000 documents fromthe New York Times Annotated Corpus (Sandhaus,2008), which contains a range of metadata.5 All5The full list of metadata fields that we allowed users to ac-7documents in the corpus were published in Januaryof 1995 and we made no effort at deduplication.Topics were generated using the Latent Dirichlet Al-location (LDA) (Blei et al 2003) implementationin MALLET (McCallum, 2002).
We used 100 top-ics trained with 1500 Gibbs iterations and hyper-parameter optimization.3.2 Quantitative ResultsThe length of time required to complete individualtasks ranged from 1 minute and 3 seconds to 24 min-utes and 54 seconds (average 9 minutes.)
6Within the scope of each task, each user initi-ated on average 5.75 searches.
The time betweensearches was on average 1 minute and 53 seconds.Of all the searches, 21.4% were new searches and78.6% built on previous searches when users choseto expand or narrow the scope of the search.
Whenusers initiated new search queries, they began withqueries on topics 59.3% of the time, with queries onmetadata 37.3% of the time, and queries that usedboth topics and metadata 3.4% of the time.
Thislends credence to the claim that the ability to accessboth metadata and topics is crucial.We asked users to rate features in terms of theirusefulness on a Likert scale from 1 (not helpful atall) to 5 (extremely helpful).
The most preferred fea-tures were filtering on topics (mean 4.217, median 5)and compacted documents (mean 3.848, median 5)The least preferred were document graphs of topicusage (mean 1.848, median 1) and aggregate statis-tics (mean 1.891, median 1).7 The fact that filteringon topics was the most preferred feature validatesour approach of including topics as a facet.
Addi-tionally, topic names were critical to this success.3.3 SurveysUsers provided qualitative feedback8 by describingtheir approaches to the task, and offering sugges-cess in the study was: online section, organization, news desk,date, locations, series name, byline (author), people, title, fea-ture page, and descriptors.6These times do not include the 3 instances in which a userfelt unable to complete a task.
Also omitted are 11 tasks (from4 users) for which log files could not provide accurate times.7Ratings are likely influenced by the specific nature of thesample user tasks.
In tasks that required seeking out metadata,expanded document views rated higher than their average.8The survey results presented here consist of one survey perparticipant per task, with two exceptions where two participantstions, the most common of which was an increasein allowed query complexity, a feature we intend toenhance.
In the current version, all search terms arecombined using AND; 7 of the 12 participants maderequests for a NOT option.Some users (6 of 12) admitted to using theirbrowser?s search feature to help complete the tasks.We chose to forgo a keyword search capability in thestudy-ready version of the tool because we wantedto test the ability of topic information to provide away to navigate the content.
Given the heavy us-age of topic searches and the ability of users to com-plete tasks with or without browser search, we havedemonstrated the usefulness of the topics as a win-dow into the content.
In future versions, we envisionincorporating keyword search capabilities, includingsuggested topic filters for searched queries.As users completed the tasks, their comfort withthe tool increased.
One user wrote, ?After the lasttask I knew exactly what to do to get my results.
Iknew what information would help me find docu-ments.?
Users also began to suggest new ways thatthey would like to see topics and metadata com-bined.
Task 4 led one user to say ?It would be in-teresting to see a page on each author and what top-ics they mostly covered.?
We could provide this in ageneral way by showing a page for each metadata at-tribute that contains relevant topics and other meta-data.
We intend to implement such features.4 ConclusionA user evaluation of MetaToMATo, our toolkit forvisualizing text corpora that incorporates both topicmodels and metadata, confirms the validity of ourapproach to use topic models and metadata in a sin-gle faceted browser.
Users searched with topics amajority of the time, but also made use of metadata.This clearly demonstrates a reliance on both, sug-gesting that users went back and forth as needed.Additionally, while metadata is traditionally used forfacets, users ranked filtering by topic more highlythan metadata.
This suggests a new direction inwhich advances in topic models can be used to aidcorpus exploration.each failed to record one of their four surveys.8ReferencesDavid M. Blei, Andrew Y. Ng, and Michael I. Jordan.2003.
Latent dirichlet alcation.
J. Mach.
Learn.Res., 3:993?1022, March.M.
Cataldi, L. Di Caro, and C. Schifanella.
2011.
Im-mex: Immersive text documents exploration system.In Content-Based Multimedia Indexing (CBMI), 20119th International Workshop on, pages 1?6.
IEEE.A.J.B.
Chaney and D.M.
Blei.
2012.
Visualizing topicmodels.
In AAAI.J.
Chuang, C.D.
Manning, and J. Heer.
2012.
Ter-mite: visualization techniques for assessing textualtopic models.
In Proceedings of the InternationalWorking Conference on Advanced Visual Interfaces,pages 74?77.
ACM.Christopher Collins, Fernanda B.
Vie?gas, and MartinWattenberg.
2009.
Parallel tag clouds to explore andanalyze faceted text corpora.
In Proc.
of the IEEESymp.
on Visual Analytics Science and Technology(VAST).M.
Correll, M. Witmore, and M. Gleicher.
2011.
Explor-ing collections of tagged text for literary scholarship.Computer Graphics Forum, 30(3):731?740.W.
Cui, S. Liu, L. Tan, C. Shi, Y.
Song, Z. Gao, H. Qu,and X. Tong.
2011.
Textflow: Towards better un-derstanding of evolving topics in text.
Visualiza-tion and Computer Graphics, IEEE Transactions on,17(12):2412?2421.W.
Dou, X. Wang, R. Chang, and W. Ribarsky.
2011.Paralleltopics: A probabilistic approach to exploringdocument collections.
In Visual Analytics Science andTechnology (VAST), 2011 IEEE Conference on, pages231?240.
IEEE.Jacob Eisenstein, Duen Horng ?Polo?
Chau, Aniket Kit-tur, and Eric P. Xing.
2012.
Topicviz: Interactive topicexploration in document collections.
In CHI.Jennifer English, Marti Hearst, Rashmi Sinha, KirstenSwearingen, and Ka-Ping Yee.
2002.
Flexible searchand navigation using faceted metadata.
In ACM SIGIRConference on Information Retrieval (SIGIR).Ko Fujimura, Hiroyuki Toda, Takafumi Inoue, NobuakiHiroshima, Ryoji Kataoka, and Masayuki Sugizaki.2006.
Blogranger - a multi-faceted blog search engine.In World Wide Web (WWW).Matthew J. Gardner, Joshua Lutes, Jeff Lund, JoshHansen, Dan Walker, Eric Ringger, and Kevin Seppi.2010.
The topic browser: An interactive tool forbrowsing topic models.
In NIPS Workshop on Chal-lenges of Data Visualization.T.L.
Griffiths and M. Steyvers.
2004.
Finding scien-tific topics.
Proceedings of the National Academy ofSciences of the United States of America, 101(Suppl1):5228?5235.Marti Hearst.
2006.
Clustering versus faceted categoriesfor information exploration.
Communications of theACM, 49(4).Mika Ka?ki.
2005.
Findex: search result categories helpusers when document ranking fails.
In Proceedings ofthe SIGCHI Conference on Human Factors in Com-puting Systems, CHI ?05, pages 131?140, New York,NY, USA.
ACM.S.
Liu, M.X.
Zhou, S. Pan, W. Qian, W. Cai, and X. Lian.2009.
Interactive, topic-based visual text summariza-tion and analysis.
In Proceedings of the 18th ACMconference on Information and knowledge manage-ment, pages 543?552.
ACM.G.
Marchionini.
2006.
Exploratory search: from find-ing to understanding.
Communications of the ACM,49(4):41?46.Andrew Kachites McCallum.
2002.
Mal-let: A machine learning for language toolkit.http://mallet.cs.umass.edu.D.
Mimno and D. Blei.
2011.
Bayesian checking fortopic models.
In Proceedings of the Conference onEmpirical Methods in Natural Language Processing,pages 227?237.
Association for Computational Lin-guistics.Eyal Oren, Renaud Delbru, and Stefan Decker.
2006.Extending faceted navigation for rdf data.
In Interna-tional Semantic Web Conference (ISWC).Evan Sandhaus.
2008.
The new york times annotatedcorpus.Christian Seeling and Andreas Becks.
2003.
Exploit-ing metadata for ontology-based visual exploration ofweakly structured text documents.
In Proceedings ofthe 7th International Conference on Information Visu-alisation (IV03, pages 0?7695.
IEEE Press, ISBN.Greg Smith, Mary Czerwinski, Brian Meyers, DanielRobbins, George Robertson, and Desney S. Tan.
2006.FacetMap: A Scalable Search and Browse Visualiza-tion.
IEEE Transactions on Visualization and Com-puter Graphics, 12(5):797?804.E.M.
Talley, D. Newman, D. Mimno, B.W.
Herr II,H.M.
Wallach, G.A.P.C.
Burns, A.G.M.
Leenders, andA.
McCallum.
2011.
Database of nih grants usingmachine-learned categories and graphical clustering.Nature Methods, 8(6):443?444.Ping Yee, Kirsten Swearingen, Kevin Li, and MartiHearst.
2003.
Faceted metadata for image search andbrowsing.
In Computer-Human Interaction (CHI).9
