Proceedings of the NAACL HLT 2013 Student Research Workshop, pages 40?46,Atlanta, Georgia, 13 June 2013. c?2013 Association for Computational LinguisticsOntology Label TranslationMihael Arcan and Paul BuitelaarUnit for Natural Language Processing,Digital Enterprise Research Institute (DERI)National University of Ireland Galway (NUIG)Galway, Ireland{mihael.arcan , paul.buitelaar}@deri.orgAbstractOur research investigates the translation of on-tology labels, which has applications in mul-tilingual knowledge access.
Ontologies areoften defined only in one language, mostlyEnglish.
To enable knowledge access acrosslanguages, such monolingual ontologies needto be translated into other languages.
Theprimary challenge in ontology label trans-lation is the lack of context, which makesthis task rather different than document trans-lation.
The core objective therefore, is toprovide statistical machine translation (SMT)systems with additional context information.In our approach, we first extend standard SMTby enhancing a translation model with contextinformation that keeps track of surroundingwords for each translation.
We compute a se-mantic similarity between the phrase pair con-text vector from the parallel corpus and a vec-tor of noun phrases that occur in surroundingontology labels.
We applied our approach tothe translation of a financial ontology, translat-ing from English to German, using Europarl asparallel corpus.
This experiment showed thatour approach can provide a slight improve-ment over standard SMT for this task, with-out exploiting any additional domain-specificresources.1 IntroductionThe biggest barrier for EU-wide cross-lingual busi-ness intelligence is the large number of various lan-guages used by banks or investment firms for theirfinancial reports.
In contrast to that, most of theontologies used for knowledge access are availablein English, e.g.
the financial ontology FINREP1(FINancial REPorting) or COREP2 (COmmon sol-vency ratio REPorting).
To make the targeted trans-parency of financial information possible, these on-tologies have to be translated first into another lan-guage; see also (Declerck et al 2010).
The chal-lenge here lies in translating domain-specific on-tology vocabulary, e.g.
Equity-equivalent partnerloans, Subordinated capital or Write-downs of long-term financial assets and securities.Since domain-specific parallel corpora for SMTare hardly available, we used a large general parallelcorpus, whereby a translation model built by sucha resource will tend to translate a segment into themost common word sense.
This can be seen for in-stance when we translate the financial ontology labelEquity-equivalent partner loans from the GermanGAAP ontology (cf.
Section 3.1).
Using a baselineSMT system we get the translation Gerechtigkeit-gleichwertige Partner Darlehen.
Although this la-bel provides contextual information, equity is trans-lated into its general meaning, i.e.
Gerechtigkeit inthe meaning of justice, righteousness or fairness, al-though Eigenkapital would be the preferred transla-tion in the financial domain.To achieve accurate disambiguation we developeda method using context vectors.
We extract semanticinformation from the ontology, i.e.
the vocabularyand relations between labels and compare it with thecontextual information extracted from a parallel cor-pus.The remainder of the paper is organized as fol-1http://eba.europa.eu/Supervisory-Reporting/FINER.aspx2http://eba.europa.eu/Supervisory-Reporting/COREP.aspx40lows.
Section 2 gives an overview of the relatedwork on including semantic information into SMT.Section 3 describes the ontology and the parallelcorpus used in our experiment.
Then we describethe approach of enhancing the standard SMT modelwith ontological knowledge for improving the trans-lation of labels in Section 4.
In Section 5 the resultsof exploiting the ontological knowledge described inthe previous section are illustrated.
Finally we con-clude our findings and give an outlook for furtherresearch.2 Related WorkWord sense disambiguation (WSD) systems gener-ally perform on the word level, for an input wordthey generate the most probable meaning.
On theother hand, state of the art translation systems op-erate on sequences of words.
This discrepancy be-tween unigrams versus n-grams was first describedin (Carpuat and Wu, 2005).
Likewise, (Apidianakiet al 2012) use a WSD classifier to generate a prob-ability distribution of phrase pairs and to build a lo-cal language model.
They show that the classifierdoes not only improve the translation of ambiguouswords, but also the translation of neighbour words.We investigate this discrepancy as part of our re-search in enriching the ontology label translationwith ontological information.
Similar to their workwe incorporate the idea of enriching the translationmodel with neighbour words information, wherebywe extend the window to 5-grams.
(Mauser et al 2009) generate a lexicon that pre-dicts the bag of output words from the bag of inputwords.
In their research, no alignment between inputand output words is used, words are chosen basedon the input context.
The word predictions of the in-put sentences are considered as an additional featurethat is used in the decoding process.
This feature de-fines a new probability score that favours the trans-lation hypothesis containing words, which were pre-dicted by the lexicon model.
Similarly, (Patry andLanglais, 2011) train a model by translating a bag-of-words.
In contrast to their work, our approachuses bag-of-word information to enrich the missingcontextual information that arises from translatingontology labels in isolation.
(McCrae et al 2011) exploit in their researchthe ontology structure for translation of ontologiesand taxonomies.
They compare the structure ofthe monolingual ontology to the structure of alreadytranslated multilingual ontologies, where the sourceand target labels are used for the disambiguationprocess of phrase pairs.
We incorporated the idea ofusing the ontology structure, but avoided the draw-back of exploiting existing domain-specific multilin-gual ontologies.3 Data setsFor our experiment we used a general parallel cor-pus to generate the mandatory SMT phrase tableand language model.
Further, the corpus was usedto generate feature vectors on the basis of the con-textual information provided by surrounding words.Finally we calculate the semantic similarity betweenthe extracted information from the parallel corpusand the ontology vocabulary.3.1 Financial ontologyFor our experiment we used the financial ontol-ogy German GAAP (Generally Accepted Account-ing Practice),3 which holds 2794 concepts with la-bels in German and English.Balance sheet.
.
.
Total equity and liabilitiesEquityEquity-equivalent partner loans Revenue reservesLegal reserveLegal reserve, of which transferred from prior year net retained profits.
.
.. .
.Figure 1: The financial label Equity-equivalent partnerloans and its neighbours in the German GAAP ontologyAs seen in Figure 1 the financial labels do not cor-respond to phrases from a linguistic point of view.They are used in financial or accounting reports asunique financial expressions or identifiers to organ-ise and retrieve the reported information automati-cally.
Therefore it is important to translate these fi-nancial labels with exact meaning preservation.3http://www.xbrl.de/413.2 EuroparlAs a baseline approach we used the Europarl par-allel corpus,4 which holds proceedings of the Euro-pean Parliament in 21 European languages.
We usedthe English-German parallel corpus with around 1.9million aligned sentences and 40 million Englishand 43 million German tokens (Koehn, 2005).Although previous research showed that a trans-lation model built by using a general parallel cor-pus cannot be used for domain-specific vocabularytranslation (Wu et al 2008), we decided to train abaseline translation model on this general corpus toillustrate any improvement steps gained by enrich-ing the standard approach with the semantic infor-mation of the ontology vocabulary and structure.4 ExperimentSince ontology labels (or label segments) translatedby the Moses toolkit (Section 4.1) do not have muchcontextual information, we addressed this lack ofinformation and generated fromthe Europarl corpusa new resource with contextual information of sur-rounding words as feature vectors (Section 4.2).
Asimilar approach was done with the ontology struc-ture and vocabulary (Section 4.3).4.1 Moses toolkitTo translate the English financial labels into Ger-man, we used the statistical translation toolkit Moses(Koehn et al 2007), where the word alignmentswere built with the GIZA++ toolkit (Och and Ney,2003).
The SRILM toolkit (Stolcke, 2002) was usedto build the 5-gram language model.4.2 Building the contextual-semantic resourcefrom the parallel corpus EuroparlTo enhance the baseline approach with additional se-mantic information, we built a new resource of con-textual information from Europarl.From the original phrase table, which was gen-erated from the Europarl corpus, we used the sub-phrase table, which was generated to translate theGerman GAAP financial ontology in the baselineapproach.
Although this sub-phrase table holds onlysegments necessary to translate the financial labels,it still contains 2,394,513 phrase pairs.
Due to the4http://www.statmt.org/europarl/, version 7scalability issue, we reduced the number of phrasepairs by filtering the sub-phrase table based on thefollowing criteria:a) the direct phrase translation probability ?
(e|f)has to be larger than 0.0001b) a phrase pair should not start or end with afunctional word, i.e.
prepositions, conjunctions,modal verbs, pronounsc) a phrase pair should not start with punctuationAfter applying these criteria to the sub-phrase ta-ble, the new filtered phrase table holds 53,283 enti-ties, where phrase pairs, e.g.
tax rate ||| Steuersatzor tax liabilities ||| Steuerschulden were preserved.In the next step, the phrase pairs stored in the fil-tered phrase table were used to find sentences in Eu-roparl, where these phrase pairs appear.
The goalwas to extract the surrounding words as the con-textual information of these phrase pairs.
If a seg-ment from the filtered phrase table appeared in thesentence we extracted the lemmatised contextual in-formation of the phrase pair, whereby we consid-ered 10 tokens to the left and 10 to the right ofthe analysed phrase pair.
To address the problemof different inflected forms (financial asset vs. fi-nancial assets) of the same lexical entity (financialasset) we lemmatised the English part of the Eu-roparl corpus with TreeTagger(Schmid, 1995).
Sim-ilar to the phrase table filtering approach, an n-gramshould not start with a functional word or punctua-tion.
The extracted surrounding words were storedtogether with its phrase pairs, i.e.
for the phrasepairs Equity-Gerechtigkeit and Equity-Eigenkapitaldifferent contextual vectors were generated.Example 1.a) illustrates a sentence, which holdsthe source segment Equity from the filtered phrasetable.
Example 1.b) represents its translation intoGerman.
This example illustrates the context inwhich Equity is translated into the German expres-sion Gerechtigkeit.
The segment Equity is alsopresent in the second sentence, (example 2.a)), incontrast to the first one, equity is translated intoEigenkapital, (2.b)), since the sentence reports fi-nancial information.1.
a) ... which could guarantee a high standard of ef-ficiency, safety and equity for employees andusers alike, right away.42b) ... , der heute ein hohes Niveau an Leistung,Qualita?t, Sicherheit und Gerechtigkeit fu?r dieBediensteten und die Nutzer garantieren ko?nnte.2.
a) ... or organisations from making any finance,such as loans or equity, available to namedBurmese state-owned enterprises.b) ... bzw.
Organisationen zu verbieten, bir-manischen staatlichen Unternehmen jegliche Fi-nanzmittel wie Darlehen oder Eigenkapital zurVerfu?gung zu stellen.Applying this methodology on all 1.9 million sen-tences in Europarl, we generated a resource withfeature vectors for all phrase pairs of the filteredphrase table.
Table 1 illustrates the contextual differ-ences between the vectors for Equity-Gerechtigkeitand Equity-Eigenkapital phrase pairs.4.3 Contextual-semantic resource generationfor the financial ontology German GAAPTo compare the contextual information extractedfrom Europarl a similar approach was applied to thevocabulary in the German GAAP ontology.First, to avoid unnecessary segments, e.g.
provi-sions for or losses from executory, we parsed the fi-nancial ontology with the Stanford parser (Klein andManning, 2003) and extracted meaningful segmentsfrom the ontology labels.
This step was done pri-marily to avoid comparing all possible n-gram seg-ments with the filtered segments extracted from theEuroparl corpus (cf.
Subsection 4.2).
With the syn-tactical information given by the Stanford parser weextracted a set of noun segments for the ontology la-bels, which we defined by the rules shown in Table2.# Syntactic Patterns1 (NN(S) w+)2 (NP (NN(S) w+)+))3 (NP (JJ w+)+ (NN(S) w+)+))4 (NP (NN(S) w+)+ (CC w+) (NN(S) w+)+)5 (NP (NN(S) w+)+ (PP (IN/.. w+) (NP (NN(S) w+)+))Table 2: Syntactic patterns for extracting noun segmentsfrom the parsed financial ontology labelsApplying these patterns to the ontology label Pro-visions for expected losses from executory contractsextracts the following noun segments: provisions,losses and contracts (pattern 1), expected losses andexecutory contracts (pattern 3), provisions for ex-pected losses and expected losses from executorycontracts (pattern 5).In the next step, for all 2794 labels from the finan-cial ontology, a unique contextual vector was gen-erated as follows: for the label Equity-equivalentpartner loans (cf.
Figure 1), the vector holds theextracted (lemmatised) noun segments of the directparent, Equity, and all its siblings in the ontology,e.g.
Revenue reserves .
.
.
(Table 3).targeted label: Equity-equivalent partner loanscontextual information: capital (6), reserve (3), loss(3), balance sheet (2) .
.
.
currency translation (1),negative consolidation difference (1), profit (1)Table 3: Contextual information for the financial labelEquity-equivalent partner loans4.4 Calculating the Semantic SimilarityUsing the resources described in the previous sec-tions in a final step we apply the Cosine, Jaccard andDice similarity measures on these feature vectors.For the first evaluation step we translated all finan-cial labels with the general translation model.
Ta-ble 4 illustrates the translation of the financial ex-pression equity as part of the label Equity-equivalentpartner loans.5With the n-best (n=50) translations for each fi-nancial label we calculated the semantic similaritybetween the contextual information of the phrasepairs (equity-Eigenkapital) extracted from the par-allel corpus (cf.
Table 1) with the semantic informa-tion of the financial label Equity extracted from theontology (cf.
Table 3).After calculating a semantic similarity, we reorderthe translations based on this additional information,which can be seen in Table 5.5ger.
Gerechtigkeit-gleichwertige Partner DarlehenSource label Target label p(e|f)equity Gerechtigkeit -10.6227equity Gleichheit -11.5476equity Eigenkapital -12.7612equity Gleichbehandlung -13.0936equity Fairness -13.6301Table 4: Top five translations and its translation probabil-ities generated by the Europarl translation model43Source label Target label Context (frequency)equity Gerechtigkeit social (19), efficiency (18), efficiency and equity (14), justice (13), social eq-uity (11), education (9), principle (8), transparency (7), training (7), great (7)equity Eigenkapital capital (19), equity capital (15), venture (3), venture capital (3), rule (2), capitaland risk (2), equity capital and risk (2), bank (2), risk (2), debt (1)Table 1: Contextual information for Equity with its target labels Gerechtigkeit and Eigenkapital extracted from theEuroparl corpusSource label Target label Jaccardequity Eigenkapital 0.0780169232equity Equity 0.0358268041equity Kapitalbeteiligung 0.0341965597equity Gleichheit 0.0273327211equity Gerechtigkeit 0.0266209669Table 5: Top five re-ranked translations after calculatingthe Jaccard similarity5 EvaluationOur evaluation was conducted on the translationsgenerated by the baseline approach, using only Eu-roparl, and the ontology-enhanced translations of fi-nancial labels.We undertook an automatic evaluation using theBLEU (Papineni et al 2002), NIST (Dodding-ton, 2002), TER (Snover et al 2006), and Me-teor6 (Denkowski and Lavie, 2011) algorithms.5.1 Baseline Evaluation of general corpusAt the beginning of our experiment, we trans-lated the financial labels with the Moses Toolkit,where the translation model was generated from theEnglish-German Europarl aligned corpus.
The re-sults are shown in Table 7 as baseline.5.2 Baseline Evaluation of filtered generalcorpusA second evaluation on translations was done ona filtered Europarl corpus, depending if a sentenceholds the vocabulary of the ontology to be translated.We generated five training sets, based on n-grams ofthe ontology vocabulary (from unigram to 5-gram)appearing in the sentence.
From the set of alignedsentences we generated new translation models andtranslated again the financial ontology labels withthem.
Table 6 illustrates the results of filtering the6Meteor configuration: -l de, exact, stem, paraphraseEuroparl parallel corpus into smaller (n-gram) train-ing sets, whereby no training set outperforms signif-icantly the baseline approach.model sentences BLEU-4 Meteor OOVbaseline 1920209 4.22 0.1138 37unigram 1591520 4.25 0.1144 37bigram 322607 4.22 0.1077 463-gram 76775 1.99 0.0932 924-gram 4380 2.45 0.0825 2965-gram 259 0.69 0.0460 743Table 6: Evaluation results for the filtered Europarl base-line translation model (OOV - out of vocabulary)5.3 Evaluation of the knowledge enhancedgeneral translation modelThe final part of our research concentrated on trans-lations where the general translation model was en-hanced with ontological knowledge.
Table 7 illus-trates the results using the different similarity mea-sures, i.e.
Dice, Jaccard, Cosine similarity coeffi-cient.For the Cosine coefficient we performed two ap-proaches.
For the first step we used only binary val-ues (bv) from the vector, where in the second ap-proach we used the frequencies of the contextual in-formation as real values (rv).
The results show thatthe Cosine measure using frequencies (rv) performsbest for the METEOR metric.
On the other hand thebinary Cosine measure (bv) performs better than theother metrics in BLEU-2 and NIST metrics.The Jaccard and Dice similarity coefficient per-form very similar.
They both outperform the generaltranslation model in BLEU, NIST and TER metrics,whereby the Jaccard coefficient performs slightlybetter than the Dice coefficient.
On the other handboth measures perform worse on the METEOR met-ric regarding the general model.
Overall we observethat the Jaccard coefficient outperforms the baseline44Bleu-2 Bleu-4 NIST Meteor TERbaseline 13.05 4.22 1.789 0.113 1.113Dice 13.16 4.43 1.800 0.111 1.075Jaccard 13.17 4.44 1.802 0.111 1.074Cosine (rv) 12.91 4.20 1.783 0.117 1.108Cosine (bv) 13.27 4.34 1.825 0.116 1.077Table 7: Evaluation results for Europarl baseline transla-tion model and the different similarity measuresapproach by 0.22 BLEU points.5.4 Comparison of translations provided bythe general model and Jaccard similarityTable 7 illustrates the different approaches that wereperformed in our research.
As the automatic metricsgive just a slight intuition about the improvements ofthe different approaches, we compared the transla-tions of the general translation model manually withthe translations on which Jaccard similarity coeffi-cient was performed.As discussed, Equity can be translated into Ger-man as Gerechtigkeit when translating it in a gen-eral domain or into Eigenkapital when translat-ing it in the financial domain.
In the financialontology, the segment Equity appears 126 times.The general translation model translates it wronglyas Gerechtigkeit, whereby the Jaccard coefficient,with the help of contextual information, favoursthe preferred translation Eigenkapital.
Further-more Equit can be also part of a larger financiallabel, e.g.
Equity-equivalent partner loans, butthe general translation model still translates it intoGerechtigkeit.
This can be explained by the seg-mentation during the decoding process, i.e.
the SMTsystem tokenises this label into separate tokens andtranslates each token separately from each other.
Onthe contrary, the Jaccard similarity coefficient cor-rects the unigram segment to Eigenkapital.As part of the label Uncalled unpaid contributionsto subscribed capital (deducted from equity on theface of the balance sheet), equity is again translatedby the general translation model as Gerechtigkeit.
Inthis case the Jaccard coefficient cannot correct thetranslation, which is caused by the general modelitself, since in all n-best (n=50) translations equity istranslated as Gerechtigkeit.
In this case the Jaccardcoefficient reordering does not have any affect.The manual analysis further showed that the am-biguous ontology label Securities, e.g.
in Write-downs of long-term financial assets and securitieswas also often translated as Sicherheiten7 in themeaning of certainties or safeties, but was correctedby the Jaccard coefficient into Wertpapiere, which isthe correct translation in the financial domain.Finally, the analysis showed that the segment Bal-ance in Central bank balances was often trans-lated by the baseline model into Gleichgewichte,8i.e.
Zentralbank Gleichgewichte, whereas the Jac-card coefficient favoured the preferred translationGuthaben, i.e.
Zentralbank Bankguthaben.Conclusion and Future WorkOur approach to re-using existing resources showedslight improvements in the translation quality of thefinancial vocabulary.
Although the contextual infor-mation favoured correct translations in the financialdomain, we see a need for more research on the con-textual information stored in the parallel corpus andalso in the ontology.
Also more work has to be doneon analysis of the overlap of the contextual informa-tion and the ontology vocabulary, e.g.
which con-textual words should have more weight for the simi-larity measure.
Furthermore, dealing with the ontol-ogy structure, the relations between the labels, i.e.part-of and parent-child relations, have to be consid-ered.
Once these questions are answered, the nextstep will be to compare the classical cosine mea-sure against more sophisticated similarity measures,i.e.
Explicit Semantic Analysis (ESA) (Gabrilovichand Markovitch, 2007).
Instead of measuring simi-larity between the vectors directly using cosine, wewill investigate the application of ESA to calculatethe similarities between short texts by taking theirlinguistic variations into account (Aggarwal et al2012).AcknowledgmentsThis work is supported in part by the EuropeanUnion under Grant No.
248458 for the Monnetproject and Grant No.
296277 for the EuroSenti-ment project as well as by the Science FoundationIreland under Grant No.
SFI/08/CE/I1380 (Lion-2).7ger.
Abschreibungen der langfristigen finanziellenVermo?genswerte und Sicherheiten8en.
equilibrium, equation, balance45ReferencesAggarwal, N., Asooja, K., and Buitelaar, P. (2012).DERI&UPM: Pushing corpus based relatedness tosimilarity: Shared task system description.
InSemEval-2012.Apidianaki, M., Wisniewski, G., Sokolov, A., Max, A.,and Yvon, F. (2012).
Wsd for n-best reranking andlocal language modeling in smt.
In Proceedings of theSixth Workshop on Syntax, Semantics and Structure inStatistical Translation, pages 1?9, Jeju, Republic ofKorea.
Association for Computational Linguistics.Carpuat, M. and Wu, D. (2005).
Word sense disambigua-tion vs. statistical machine translation.
In Proceed-ings of the 43rd Annual Meeting on Association forComputational Linguistics, ACL ?05, pages 387?394,Stroudsburg, PA, USA.
Association for ComputationalLinguistics.Declerck, T., Krieger, H.-U., Thomas, S. M., Buitelaar,P., O?Riain, S., Wunner, T., Maguet, G., McCrae, J.,Spohr, D., and Montiel-Ponsoda, E. (2010).
Ontology-based multilingual access to financial reports for shar-ing business knowledge across europe.
In InternalFinancial Control Assessment Applying MultilingualOntology Framework.Denkowski, M. and Lavie, A.
(2011).
Meteor 1.3: Au-tomatic Metric for Reliable Optimization and Evalua-tion of Machine Translation Systems.
In Proceedingsof the Sixth Workshop on Statistical Machine Transla-tion, pages 85?91, Edinburgh, Scotland.
Associationfor Computational Linguistics.Doddington, G. (2002).
Automatic evaluation of ma-chine translation quality using n-gram co-occurrencestatistics.
In Proceedings of the second interna-tional conference on Human Language TechnologyResearch, HLT ?02, pages 138?145.Gabrilovich, E. and Markovitch, S. (2007).
Computingsemantic relatedness using wikipedia-based explicitsemantic analysis.
In Proceedings of The Twentieth In-ternational Joint Conference for Artificial Intelligence,pages 1606?1611, Hyderabad, India.Klein, D. and Manning, C. D. (2003).
Accurate unlex-icalized parsing.
In Proceeding of the 41st annualmeeting of the association for computational linguis-tics, pages 423?430.Koehn, P. (2005).
Europarl: A Parallel Corpus for Sta-tistical Machine Translation.
In Conference Proceed-ings: the tenth Machine Translation Summit, pages79?86.
AAMT.Koehn, P., Hoang, H., Birch, A., Callison-Burch, C., Fed-erico, M., Bertoldi, N., Cowan, B., Shen, W., Moran,C., Zens, R., Dyer, C., Bojar, O., Constantin, A., andHerbst, E. (2007).
Moses: Open Source Toolkit forStatistical Machine Translation.
In Proceedings of the45th Annual Meeting of the ACL, ACL ?07, pages 177?180.Mauser, A., Hasan, S., and Ney, H. (2009).
Extend-ing statistical machine translation with discriminativeand trigger-based lexicon models.
In Conference onEmpirical Methods in Natural Language Processing,pages 210?217, Singapore.McCrae, J., Espinoza, M., Montiel-Ponsoda, E., Aguado-de Cea, G., and Cimiano, P. (2011).
Combining sta-tistical and semantic approaches to the translation ofontologies and taxonomies.
In Fifth workshop on Syn-tax, Structure and Semantics in Statistical Translation(SSST-5).Och, F. J. and Ney, H. (2003).
A systematic compari-son of various statistical alignment models.
Computa-tional Linguistics, 29.Papineni, K., Roukos, S., Ward, T., and Zhu, W.-J.(2002).
BLEU: A Method for Automatic Evaluationof Machine Translation.
In Proceedings of the 40thAnnual Meeting of the Association for ComputationalLinguistics, ACL ?02, pages 311?318, Stroudsburg,PA, USA.
Association for Computational Linguistics.Patry, A. and Langlais, P. (2011).
Going beyond wordcooccurrences in global lexical selection for statisti-cal machine translation using a multilayer perceptron.In 5th International Joint Conference on Natural Lan-guage Processing (IJCNLP?11), pages 658?666, Chi-ang Mai, Thailand.Schmid, H. (1995).
Improvements in part-of-speech tag-ging with an application to german.
In In Proceedingsof the ACL SIGDAT-Workshop, pages 47?50.Snover, M., Dorr, B., Schwartz, R., Micciulla, L., andMakhoul, J.
(2006).
A study of translation edit ratewith targeted human annotation.
In In Proceedings ofAssociation for Machine Translation in the Americas,pages 223?231.Stolcke, A.
(2002).
Srilm-an extensible language model-ing toolkit.
In Proceedings International Conferenceon Spoken Language Processing, pages 257?286.Wu, H., Wang, H., and Zong, C. (2008).
Domain adap-tation for statistical machine translation with domaindictionary and monolingual corpora.
In Proceedingsof the 22nd International Conference on Computa-tional Linguistics - Volume 1, COLING ?08, pages993?1000.46
