Proceedings of the NAACL HLT 2013 Student Research Workshop, pages 84?90,Atlanta, Georgia, 13 June 2013. c?2013 Association for Computational LinguisticsEntrainment in Spoken Dialogue Systems: Adopting, Predicting andInfluencing User BehaviorRivka LevitanDepartment of Computer ScienceColumbia UniversityNew York, NY 10027, USArlevitan@cs.columbia.eduAbstractEntrainment is the phenomenon of the speechof conversational partners becoming moresimilar to each other.
This thesis proposalpresents a comprehensive look at entrainmentin human conversations and how entrainmentmay be incorporated into the design of spo-ken dialogue systems in order to improve sys-tem performance and user satisfaction.
Wecompare different kinds of entrainment in bothclassic and novel dimensions, provide exper-imental results on the utility of entrainment,and show that entrainment can be used to im-prove a system?s ASR performance and turn-taking decisions.1 IntroductionEntrainment is the phenomenon of interlocutors be-coming more similar to each other in their speechin the course of a conversation.
Entrainment hasbeen observed in numerous domains and for mul-tiple levels of communication.
In addition, manystudies have shown associations between entrain-ment and desirable dialogue characteristics.
Theproposed work aims to improve spoken dialoguesystem performance both qualitatively and quanti-tatively by exploiting this prevalent and significantphenomenon.
Spoken dialogue systems can signifi-cantly improve the quality of their user interactionsby incorporating entrainment into their design:?
A spoken dialogue system can entrain to itsusers, adjusting its own output to align withtheirs.
This should improve the dialogue qual-ity as perceived by the user.?
It can exploit the concept of entrainment bychanging the parameters of its own outputwhen it wants the user to speak differently.
Forexample, when the user is speaking too quickly,the system can slow down its own output, caus-ing the user to do the same.?
It can use an entrainment model along with in-formation about its own behavior to more accu-rately predict how the user will behave.Our proposed work explores the role of entrain-ment in human conversations and looks at how itcan improve interactions with spoken dialogue sys-tems.
In addition to presenting an in-depth studyof the characteristics of human entrainment, wewill demonstrate that spoken dialogue systems canuse this information to predict characteristics of theuser?s speech, improve the user?s impression of thedialogue quality and system persona by adopting theuser?s speech characteristics, and improve recogni-tion accuracy by influencing the user to abandonprosodic characteristics associated with ASR error.This thesis proposal is organized as follows: Sec-tion 2 discusses the literature related to the proposedwork.
Section 3 describes the corpus used in thesestudies.
Section 4 addresses the question of how hu-mans entrain and how this information can be usedto more accurately predict a user?s behavior.
Sec-tion 5 discusses how entrainment affects the per-ceived quality of human and human-computer con-versations, and Section 6 explores how entrainmentcan be used to influence user behavior.
Section 7describes the main contributions of this work.842 Related workEntrainment has been shown to occur at almost ev-ery level of human communication: lexical (Bren-nan and Clark, 1992), syntactic (Reitter and Moore,2007; Ward and Litman, 2007), stylistic (Niederhof-fer and Pennebaker, 2002; Danescu-Niculescu-Mizilet al 2011), acoustic-prosodic (Natale, 1975; Coul-ston et al 2002; Ward and Litman, 2007) and pho-netic (Pardo, 2006).Entrainment in many of these dimensions hasalso been associated with measures of dialogue suc-cess.
Chartrand and Bargh (1999), for example,demonstrated that subjects who interacted with con-federates who mimicked their posture and behav-ior reported greater liking for the confederate and asmoother interaction.
Lee et al(2010) found thatentrainment measures derived from pitch featureswere significantly higher in positive interactions be-tween married couples in therapy than in negativeinteractions.
Looking at more objective measures,Nenkova et al(2008) found that the degree of en-trainment on high-frequency words was correlatedwith task score and turn-taking features.These studies have been motivated by theoreti-cal models such as Giles?
Communication Accom-modation Theory (Giles et al 1987), which pro-poses that speakers promote social approval or ef-ficient communication by adapting to their inter-locutors?
communicative behavior.
Another theoryinforming the association of entrainment and dia-logue success is the coordination-rapport hypoth-esis (Tickle-Degnen and Rosenthal, 1990), whichposits that the degree of liking between conversa-tional partners should be correlated with the degreeof nonverbal coordination between them.
In con-trast, Chartrand and Bargh (1999) posit that entrain-ment is a purely automatic process, a product of theperception-behavior link, which predicts that the actof observing a behavior makes the observer morelikely to engage in that behavior as well.3 Columbia Games CorpusMany of the studies in this work were conducted onthe Columbia Games Corpus (Gravano, 2009), a col-lection of twelve dyadic conversations elicited fromnative speakers of Standard American English.
Dur-ing the collection of the corpus, each pair of partic-ipants played a set of computer games that requiredthem to verbally cooperate to achieve a mutual goal.In the Cards games, one speaker described the cardsshe saw on her screen, and her partner attempted tomatch them to the cards on his own screen.
In theObjects games, one speaker described the locationof an object on her screen, and her partner attemptedto place the corresponding object in exactly the samelocation on his own screen.
For both games, the par-ticipants received points based on how exact a matchwas; they later were paid for each point.The corpus consists of approximately nine hoursof recorded dialogue.
It has been orthographicallytranscribed and annotated with prosodic and turn-taking labels.
Thirteen subjects participated in thecollection of the corpus, and nine returned on an-other day for a second session with a different part-ner.
This is useful for our study of entrainment, sincewe can compare a single speaker?s behavior withtwo different interlocutors.
In addition, the corpusis representative of the kind of speech we are inter-ested in: task-oriented dialogue between strangers.4 Entrainment in human conversationsWe begin our study of entrainment by looking at en-trainment in human conversations.
Aside from theinterest inherent in advancing our understanding ofthis human behavior, research in this area can informthe design of spoken dialogue systems.
A systemthat entrains the way a human does will seem morenatural, and a system that knows how humans en-train can use this information to better predict how auser will behave, improving its own performance.4.1 Acoustic-prosodic entrainmentThis study, previously presented in (Levitan andHirschberg, 2011), creates a cohesive view of en-trainment by directly comparing entrainment on aset of acoustic-prosodic features, measured in fivedifferent ways.
By comparing these different mea-sures of entrainment, we bring clarity to three as-pects of entrainment:?
Is it global or local?
Two speakers may fluc-tuate around similar means, while divergingwidely at any specific point.
Conversely, theymay be globally dissimilar, but locally theymay be relatively similar.?
Is it by value or by direction?
If a speaker en-85trains to her partner?s actual value, if he low-ers his voice, she may raise her own in order tomatch his new intensity.
If she matches the di-rection of the change rather than the new value,she will lower her voice as well, even if thisresults in a value less similar to his.?
Is the degree of entrainment static, or doesit improve?
Do speakers converge?becomemore similar?as the conversation progresses?The features we examine are intensity mean andmax, pitch mean and max, jitter, shimmer, noise-to-harmonics ratio (NHR), and syllables per sec-ond1.
We look for evidence of global entrainment bycomparing the similarities in feature means betweenpartners with the similarities between speakers whoare not conversational partners.We see an effect of entrainment for almost all thefeatures.
In addition, the difference between part-ners for several of the features is smaller in the sec-ond half of the conversation, constituting evidenceof convergence.
We also find a strong effect of lo-cal entrainment: for every feature, adjacent turns aresignificantly (p < 0.001) more similar to each otherthan non-adjacent turns.
We conclude that entrain-ment is by value rather than by direction; that globalentrainment exists in addition to local matching forseveral features, most notably intensity; and that en-trainment is dynamic for some features, improvingas the conversation progresses.4.2 Entrainment on outliersSince entrainment is generally considered an uncon-scious phenomenon, it is interesting to consider en-trainment when a feature is particularly salient.
Thetheory that the perception-behavior link is the mech-anism behind entrainment (Chartrand and Bargh,1999) would predict that the effect of entrainmentwould be stronger in this case, since such featuresare more likely to be observed and therefore imi-tated.
We test this hypothesis by looking at casesin which one speaker in a pair has a feature value inthe 90th or 10th percentile.
This study was previ-ously described in (Levitan et al 2012).1Intensity mean is an acoustic measure perceived as loud-ness, and intensity max represents the range of loudness.
Jitter,shimmer and NHR are three measures of voice quality; jitterand shimmer are perceived as harshness, and NHR as hoarse-ness.
Syllables per second measure speaking rate.As in our tests for global entrainment (Section4.1), we compute a partner and non-partner similar-ity for each speaker.
The partner similarity should belower for outlier pairs (pairs in which one speakerhas an outlier feature value), and the non-partnersimilarity should be lower as well, since the outlierspeaker diverges from the norm.
We therefore canexpect the difference between these two values to bethe same for outlier and typical pairs.
If this dif-ference is lower for outlier pairs, we can concludethat the effect of entrainment is weaker in outliercases.
We find, in fact, that this difference is greaterfor outlier pairs for several features, indicating thatspeakers entrain more to outlier values of these fea-tures.
This finding supports the perception-behaviorlink.
In addition, it has implications for cases inwhich it is an objective to induce one?s interlocutorto entrain, as we will discuss in Section 6.4.3 Entrainment and backchannel-inviting cuesBackchannels are short, nondisruptive segments ofspeech that a speaker utters to let his interlocutorknow that he is keeping up.
They are extremelyprevalent in task-oriented conversation.
Gravanoand Hirschberg (2009) identified six acoustic andprosodic features that tend to be different be-fore backchannels, hypothesizing that these featuresserve as cues to one?s interlocutor that a backchan-nel would be welcome.
Individual speakers use dif-ferent sets of cues, and can differ in their realiza-tion of a cue.
We look for evidence of entrainmenton backchannel-inviting cues.
This work, previouslydiscussed in (Levitan et al 2011), represents a firstlook at entrainment in a pragmatic dimension.We measure backchannel-inviting cues in threeways.
Firstly, we measure the similarity of thespeaker pairs?
cue sets by counting the number ofcues they have in common, and find that partnershave more cues in common than non-partners.
Sec-ondly, we measure the similarity of cue realization,and show that feature values before backchannelsfor pitch, intensity and voice quality are more sim-ilar between partners.
In addition, this measureshows evidence of convergence for pitch and inten-sity, which are more similar before backchannels inthe second half of a conversation.
Finally, we mea-sure the local effect of this entrainment by correlat-ing feature values before consecutive backchannels86and find that pitch and intensity before backchannelsare moderately correlated.4.4 Future workWe have shown that a speaker?s conversational be-havior is influenced by that of her interlocutor.
Wetherefore propose to develop a framework for us-ing entrainment information to label or predict aspeaker?s behavior.
An example of such a task ispredicting backchannels.
Based on the work ofGravano and Hirschberg (2009), a system decidingwhether to produce a backchannel or take the floorshould compare the user?s most recent utterance toa backchannel-preceding model and a turn-yieldingmodel.
Since each speaker uses a different countof backchannel-preceding cues, a model trained onother speakers may not be useful.
However, datafrom the user may not be available and is likely tobe sparse at best.Since interlocutors use similar backchannel-inviting cues, we can use information from the in-terlouctor ?
the system ?
to build the model.
Theinfluence of this interlocutor information can beweighted according to the probable strength of theentrainment effect, which can depend, as we haveshown, on the feature being predicted, the respec-tive genders of the participants, whether a featurevalue is an outlier, and where in the conversation thespeech segment occurs.5 Entrainment and dialogue qualityThis section addresses two main research questions:1.
What kinds of entrainment are most importantto conversational quality?2.
Will the passive benefits of entrainment applywhen it is a computer that is entraining?To answer the first question, we look at the entrain-ment correlates of social and objective variables inthe Games Corpus (previously reported in Levitanet al 2012).
We address the second question with aWizard of Oz study that looks at subjects?
reactionsto an entraining spoken dialogue system.5.1 Entrainment correlates of dialogue charac-teristicsLexical entrainment has been associated with mea-sures of smooth turn-taking and task success(Nenkova et al 2008).
Here, we correlate en-trainment on intensity mean and max, pitch meanand max, jitter, shimmer, noise-to-harmonics ratio(NHR), and syllables per second with four objectivemeasures of dialogue coordination: number of turns,mean turn latency, percentage of overlaps, and per-centage of interruptions.
We interpret a high num-ber of turns and percentage of overlaps (cases inwhich one person begins speaking as her interlocu-tor finishes his turn) as signs of a smoothly flowing,well-coordinated conversation.
We therefore expectthem to be positively associated with entrainment, inline with previous work and the theory that entrain-ment facilitates communication.
In contrast, highturn latency (the lag time between turns) and per-centage of interruptions (cases in which one personbegins speaking before her interlocutor has finishedhis turn) are signs of poor turn-taking behavior andan awkward conversation.
We therefore expect themto be negatively correlated with entrainment mea-sures.To look at more perceptual measures of dialoguequality, we used Amazon Mechanical Turk2 to an-notate each task (the sub-units of each game) in theGames Corpus for what we term social variables,the perceived social characteristics of an interactionand ints participants.
Details on the annotation pro-cess can be found in (Gravano et al 2011).
In thisstudy, we focus on four social variables: trying tobe liked, giving encouragement, trying to dominate,and conversation awkward.
Based on Communica-tion Accommodation Theory (Giles et al 1987), weexpect the first two social variables, which representthe desire to minimize social distance, to be posi-tively correlated with entrainment.
Someone who istrying to dominate, on the other hand, will try to in-crease social distance, and we therefore expect thisvariable to correlate negatively with entrainment, asshould conversation awkward.We report separate results for female, male andmixed-gender pairs.
In general, we see correlationsin the expected directions: the number of turns, per-centage of overlaps, and giving encouragement arepositively correlated with entrainment for all gen-der groups, latency is negatively correlated with en-trainment for male and female pairs, and trying tobe liked is positively correlated with entrainment for2http://www.mturk.com87male and mixed-gender pairs.
We see no correla-tions for trying to dominate, possibly because an-notators were confused between the socially weakposition of trying to dominate, and the socially pow-erful position of actually dominating.For objective variables, we see the strongest andmost numerous correlations for male pairs, whilefor objective variables, this is true for mixed-genderpairs, leading us to conclude that entrainment ismost important to the coordination of a conversa-tion for male pairs and to the perceived quality of aconversation for mixed-gender pairs.
We identify in-tensity as an important entrainment feature, as wellas shimmer for dialogue coordination for female ormixed-gender pairs.
In future work, we plan to cor-relate these social and objective variables with mea-sures of local entrainment and convergence (Section4.1).5.2 Entrainment and dialogue quality in spokendialogue systemsIn this study (currently ongoing), we look at whethersubjects will attribute more positive qualities to aninteraction with a system whose voice is more simi-lar to their own.
To answer this question, we createa Wizard of Oz setup in which a subject interactswith an entrained voice and a disentrained voice.We chose to employ a wizard instead of a fully func-tional dialogue system in order to neutralize possibleintrusions from other components of a dialogue sys-tem and isolate the entrainment effect.The subjects are given three tasks modeled on rea-sons for which someone might call 311, New YorkCity?s phone number for government information.In the taxi scenario, for example, the subject is givena description of an incident in which a taxi droveunsafely, and is told to report the incident to the sys-tem, using the given date, time and location.
Usingthis paradigm, we can collect spontaneous speechwhile still being able to use prerecorded prompts:the content is predetermined, but the sentence formand word choice is up to the subject.For the first task, alternate side parking, the ex-perimenter prints prompts to the subject?s screen us-ing a chat program, and the subject responds byspeaking into a headset that plays into the experi-menter?s computer.
The purpose of this first task isto get a sample of the subject?s speech.
The sub-ject then fills out some demographic forms and theNEO-FFI personality test, while the experimentercalculates the vocal intensity and speaking rate ofthe subject?s speech.
A set of prerecorded promptsis then scaled to match the subject?s vocal parame-ters, forming an entrained set, and then scaled awayfrom the subject?s parameters, forming the disen-trained set.
The parameters for the disentrained setwere chosen empirically to result in a voice percepti-bly different from the entrained set while remainingundistorted and natural-sounding.The subject then completes two more tasks, onewith the entrained voice and one with the disen-trained voice.
We vary the order and combinationof tasks and voices so we can test for effects of or-der and task.
After each task, the subject fills outa survey containing questions like ?I liked the sys-tem?s personality?
or ?I found talking with the sys-tem annoying.?
We hypothesize that they will agreemore with positive statements about the entrainingversion of the system.We also crudely measure each subject?s percep-tual sensitivity to vocal characteristics by askingthem to describe each voice by choosing from a listof adjectives like ?high-pitched,?
?fast,?
or ?loud.
?We will look at how this sensitivity, as well as gen-der and personality, interact with the subjects?
reac-tions to the system?s entrainment.6 Influencing user behaviorIn human conversations, it is common for a speakerto attempt to affect his interlocutor?s behavior bymodeling a desired change.
For example, a speakermay raise his own voice if he is having trouble hear-ing and wishes his interlocutor to speak more loudly.Since humans have been shown to entrain to com-puters (Coulston et al 2002; Stoyanchev and Stent,2009; Bell et al 2003), it is reasonable for a spokendialogue system to use this strategy to influence itsuser to speak in a way that will optimize the perfor-mance of its automatic speech recognition (ASR).
Aprevious study (Lopes et al 2011) successfully in-duced users to abandon words prone to ASR errorsimply by removing those words from the system?sprompts.
In this work, we attempt to influence usersto abandon prosodic characteristics associated withASR failure by modeling the desired change in thesystem?s prompts.88Hirschberg et al(2004) found that utterances thatfollowed longer pauses or were louder, longer, orpitched higher were less likely to be recognizedcorrectly.
Our method looks for these undesirableprosodic features in utterances with low ASR con-fidence and attempts to induce the user to abandonthem.
We hypothesize that abandoning prosody as-sociated with ASR failure will result in improvedASR performance.Our approach is as follows.
When the system?sASR returns a hypothesis with low confidence foran utterance, it finds the utterance?s intensity, pitchand duration.
If any of these features fall within therange of utterances that tend to be misrecognized,the system employs one of four strategies.
The ex-plicit strategy is to ask the user to make the desiredchange, e.g.
?Please speak more quietly.?
The en-trainment strategy is to model the desired change,e.g.
lowering the intensity of the system?s out-put.
The explicit+entrainment strategy combinesthe two, e.g.
by saying ?Please speak more quietly?in a quieter system voice.
We hypothesize that onestrategy may increase the efficacy of the other.
Wewill also try a no strategy condition as a baselinefor how often the user independently abandons theundesirable prosody.Each strategy will be embodied in a simple re-quest for repetition.
For each strategy, we will lookat how often the subsequent turn displays the desiredchange in prosody.
In addition, we will see howoften the ASR performance improves on the subse-quent turn.
A third measure of a strategy?s successwill be the durability of its effect?that is, how likelythe undesirable prosody is to recur later in the con-versation.Within the entrainment condition, we will testhow pronounced a change must be in order to in-duce a corresponding change on the part of the user.Our research on outlier entrainment suggests that amore extreme change is more likely to be entrainedto.
However, the most attractive feature of the en-trainment condition is its nondisruptiveness, and thisquality will be lost if the change in the system?svoice is too extreme.
We will therefore begin witha slight change, and test how much the degree ofchange must be increased before the user will imi-tate it.Fandrianto and Eskenazi (2012) implemented asimilar approach, lowering the system?s vocal in-tensity or increasing its speaking rate when itsclassifiers detected the speaking styles of shoutingor hyperarticulation.
By responding to individualprosodic features instead of higher-level speakingstyles, we avoid the layer of error introduced by clas-sifiers.
Furthermore, our approach can account forcases in which ASR error is caused by prosodic fea-tures that do not comprise an identifiable speakingstyle.
Finally, our detailed analysis will give moreinformation about the advantages and limitations ofeach strategy.7 ContributionsThe studies of human-human conversations in thisthesis will advance current understanding of howpeople entrain.
We provide a cohesive picture of en-trainment by directly comparing different measureson a single corpus, establishing that entrainment isboth a global and a local phenomenon, that peopleentrain by value rather than by direction, and that itis a dynamic process, improving with the course ofa dialogue.
We show that speaker pairs entrain ina novel dimension, backchannel-inviting cues, andthat this entrainment is associated with task successand dialogue coordination.
We also show that the ef-fect of entrainment is stronger in outlier cases, lend-ing experimental support to the perception-behaviorlink.This work provides experimental results on theutility of entrainment in conversations with both hu-mans and spoken dialogue systems.
In human con-versations, we show that entrainment is correlatedwith positive social characteristics and turn-takingfeatures.
In our Wizard of Oz experiments, we willshow how entrainment affects a user?s perception ofthe quality of a spoken dialogue system.Finally, this work shows how the principles of en-trainment can be used to actively improve spokendialogue systems.
We will build a framework forimplementing the results of our studies of entrain-ment in human conversations into prediction mod-els, which we hypothesize will improve their accu-racy and can be used to improve a system?s perfor-mance.
In our influencing experiments, we will at-tempt to influence a user to speak in a way that willoptimize ASR performance simply by changing thesystem?s own voice.89ReferencesLinda Bell, Joakim Gustafson, and Mattias Heldner.
Prosodicadaptation in human-computer interaction.
In Proceedingsof ICPHS?03, pages 833?836, 2003.Susan E. Brennan and Herbert H. Clark.
Conceptual pactsand lexical choice in conversation.
Journal of Experimen-tal Psychology: Learning, Memory and Cognition, 22(6):1482?1493, 1992.T.
L. Chartrand and J.
A. Bargh.
The chameleon effect: Theperception-behavior link and social interaction.
Journal ofPersonality and Social Psychology, 76(6):893?910, 1999.Rachel Coulston, Sharon Oviatt, and Courtney Darves.
Am-plitude convergence in children?s conversational speech withanimated personas.
In Proceedings of ICSLP?02, 2002.Cristian Danescu-Niculescu-Mizil, Michael Gamon, and SusanDumais.
Mark my words!
linguistic style accommodation insocial media.
In Proceedings of WWW, 2011.Andrew Fandrianto and Maxine Eskenazi.
Prosodic entrain-ment in an information-driven dialog system.
In Proceedingsof Interspeech, 2012.H.
Giles, A. Mulac, J.J. Bradac, and P. Johnson.
Speech accom-modation theory: the first decade and beyond.
Sage, BeverlyHills, CA, 1987.Agust?
?n Gravano.
Turn-taking and affirmative cue words intask-oriented dialogue.
PhD thesis, Columbia University,2009.Agust?
?n Gravano and Julia Hirschberg.
Backchannel-invitingcues in task-oriented dialogue.
In Proceedings of Inter-speech, 2009.Agust?
?n Gravano, Rivka Levitan, Laura Willson, Stefan Benus,Julia Hirschberg, and Ani Nenkova.
Acoustic and prosodiccorrelates of social behavior.
In Proceedings of Interspeech,2011.Julia Hirschberg, Diane Litman, and Marc Swerts.
Prosodic andother cues to speech recognition failures.
Speech Communi-cation, 43:155?175, 2004.Chi-Chun Lee, Matthew Black, Athanasios Katsamanis, AdamLammert, Brian Baucom, Andrew Christensen, Panayio-tis G. Georgiou, and Shrikanth Narayanan.
Quantificationof prosodic entrainment in affective spontaneous spoken in-teractions of married couples.
In Proceedings of Interspeech,2010.Rivka Levitan and Julia Hirschberg.
Measuring acoustic-prosodic entrainment with respect to multiple levels and di-mensions.
In Proceedings of Interspeech, 2011.Rivka Levitan, Agust?
?n Gravano, and Julia Hirschberg.
Entrain-ment in speech preceding backchannels.
In Proceedings ofthe 49th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computa-tional Linguistics, 2011.Rivka Levitan, Agust?
?n Gravano, Laura Willson, Stefan Benus,Julia Hirschberg, and Ani Nenkova.
Acoustic-prosodicentrainment and social behavior.
In Proceedings of the2012 Conference of the North American Chapter of theAssociation for Computational Linguistics: Human Lan-guage Technologies, pages 11?19, Montre?al, Canada, June2012.
Association for Computational Linguistics.
URLhttp://www.aclweb.org/anthology/N12-1002.Jose?
Lopes, Maxine Eskenazi, and Isabel Trancoso.
To-wards choosing better primes for spoken dialog systems.
InASRU?11, pages 306?311, 2011.Michael Natale.
Convergence of mean vocal intensity in dyadiccommunication as a function of social desirability.
Journalof Personality and Social Psychology, 32(5):790?804, 1975.Ani Nenkova, Agust?
?n Gravano, and Julia Hirschberg.
Highfrequency word entrainment in spoken dialogue.
In Proceed-ings of ACL/HLT, 2008.Kate G. Niederhoffer and James W. Pennebaker.
Linguisticstyle matching in social interaction.
Journal of Languageand Social Psychology, 21(4):337?360, 2002.Jennifer S. Pardo.
On phonetic convergence during conversa-tional interaction.
Journal of the Acoustic Society of Amer-ica, 19(4), 2006.David Reitter and Johanna D. Moore.
Predicting success in di-alogue.
In Proceedings of the 45th Annual Meeting of theAssociation of Computational Linguistics, pages 808?815,2007.Svetlana Stoyanchev and Amanda Stent.
Lexical and syntacticpriming and their impact in deployed spoken dialog systems.In Proceedings of NAACL HLT, 2009.Linda Tickle-Degnen and Robert Rosenthal.
The nature of rap-port and its nonverbal correlates.
Psychological Inquiry, 1(4):285?293, 1990.Arthur Ward and Diane Litman.
Measuring convergence andpriming in tutorial dialog.
Technical report, University ofPittsburgh, 2007.90
