Tutorials, NAACL-HLT 2013, pages 4?6,Atlanta, Georgia, June 9 2013. c?2013 Association for Computational LinguisticsDiscourse ProcessingManfred StedeUniversita?t Potsdamstede@uni-potsdam.de1 OverviewThe observation that discourse is more than a mere sequence of utterances or sen-tences amounts to a truism.
But what follows from this?
In what way does the?value added?
arise when segments of discourse are juxtaposed - how does hierar-chical structure originate from a linearized discourse?While many discourse phenomena apply to dialogue and monologue alike, thistutorial will center its attention on monologue written text.
The perspective taken isthat of practical language processing: We study methods for automatically derivingdiscourse information from text, and point to aspects of their implementation.
Theemphasis is on breadth rather than depth, so that the attendees will get an overviewof the central tasks of discourse processing, with pointers to the literature for study-ing the individual problems in more depth.
Much of the tutorial will follow the lineof the recent book M. Stede: Discourse Processing.
Morgan & Claypool 2011.Specifically, we will study the most important ways of ascribing structure todiscourse.
This is, first, a breakdown into functional units that are characteristic forthe genre of the text.
A news message, for example, is conventionally structured ina different way than a scientific paper is.
For grasping this level of structure, thepatterns that are characteristic for the specific genre need to be modeled.Second, an ongoing text, unless it is very short, will cover different topics andaddress them in a sensible linear order.
This is largely independent of genre, andsince the notion of topic is relatively vague, it is harder to describe and sometimesdifficult to identify.
The common approach is to track the distribution of contentwords across the text, but in addition, overt signals for topic switches can be ex-ploited.Third, the identification of coreference links is a central aspect of discourseprocessing, and has received much attention in computational linguistics.
We willsurvey the corpus-based methods that have dominated the field in recent years, and4then look at the ramifications that the set of all coreference links in a text has forits structure.Fourth, we investigate the structure resulting from establishing coherence rela-tions (e.g., Cause, Contrast) among adjacent text segments.
The term ?discourseparsing?
is often used for the task of identifying such relations (by exploiting moreor less explicit linguistic signals) and building tree structures that reflect the se-mantic or pragmatic scaffolding of a (portion of) text.Thus emerges a picture of a text as a series of different, yet related, layersof analysis.
The final part of the tutorial addresses the issue of inter-connectionsbetween these levels.
As a tool for accessing such multi-layered text corpora, wewill see how the (open-source) ANNIS2 database allows for querying the dataacross different layers, and for visualizing different structural layers in appropriateways.2 Outline1.
Introduction: Coherence and cohesion.
How does a text differ from a ?non-text??2.
Discourse structure as induced by the genre.
Not all texts are created equal:The genre can determine text structure to a large extent.
We look at threeexamples: Court decisions, film reviews, scientific papers.3.
Topics and text structure.
Few texts keep talking about just one thing: Meth-ods for finding topic breaks.4.
Coreference and its role for text structure.
For understanding a text, we needto know who and what is being referred to: Methods for coreference analysis.5.
Coherence relations and ?rhetorical structure?.
Trees resulting from seman-tic or pragmatic links between text segments: Methods for discourse parsing.6.
Synopsis: Text analysis on multiple levels7.
Accessing multi-layer corpora: The ANNIS2 Database3 Speaker BioManfred Stede1, University of Potsdam.
After completing his dissertation on therole of lexical semantics in multilingual text generation, Manfred Stede shifted1http://www.ling.uni-potsdam.de/?stede/5his research focus towards problems of discourse structure and its role in variousapplications of text understanding.
For discourse structure, his work centered oncoherence relations and associated structural descriptions of text, and on the lin-guistic signals of such relations, especially connectives.
From the early 2000s on,he developed the Potsdam Commentary Corpus as an example of (German) textsanalyzed simultaneously on multiple levels, including sentential syntax, corefer-ence, and rhetorical structure; in parallel, the technical infrastructure of a databasefor querying and visualizing multi-layer corpora was developed.
In recent years,more analysis levels have been added to the corpus (e.g., content zones, connectivesand their arguments).
As for applications, Manfred worked on text summarizationand various tasks of information extraction; more recently, his focus has been onissues of subjectivity and sentiment analysis.6
