Proceedings of NAACL-HLT 2015 Student Research Workshop (SRW), pages 161?167,Denver, Colorado, June 1, 2015.c?2015 Association for Computational LinguisticsMorphological Paradigms: Computational Structure and UnsupervisedLearningJackson L. LeeUniversity of Chicagojsllee@uchicago.eduAbstractThis thesis explores the computational struc-ture of morphological paradigms from the per-spective of unsupervised learning.
Three top-ics are studied: (i) stem identification, (ii)paradigmatic similarity, and (iii) paradigminduction.
All the three topics progressin terms of the scope of data in ques-tion.
The first and second topics explorestructure when morphological paradigms aregiven, first within a paradigm and then acrossparadigms.
The third topic asks where mor-phological paradigms come from in the firstplace, and explores strategies of paradigm in-duction from child-directed speech.
This re-search is of interest to linguists and naturallanguage processing researchers, for both the-oretical questions and applied areas.1 IntroductionMorphological paradigms (e.g., walk-walks-walked-walking) are of central interest to both linguists andnatural language processing researchers for the con-nectedness (e.g., jumps, jumping sharing the lex-eme JUMP) and predictability across words (e.g.,inducing googles for google based on jump-jumpsetc).
This thesis explores the computational struc-ture of morphological paradigms, particularly fromthe perspective of unsupervised learning for model-ing how such structure can be induced from unstruc-tured data.
Three topics under study are as follows:?
Stem identification: The first part of the the-sis concerns the structure within a morpho-logical paradigm, focusing on stem identifi-cation.
The goal is to devise general andlanguage-independent strategies for stem ex-traction applicable for different types of mor-phology across languages, and goes beyond thecommon substring-based approaches.?
Paradigmatic similarity: The second part ofthe thesis asks what structure there is acrossmorphological paradigms.
Paradigms often donot inflect in the exact same pattern, whichleads to inflection classes, e.g., Spanish verbs indistinct conjugation groups.
At the same time,paradigms inflect in remarkably similar ways,e.g., Spanish verbs in the second plural allend with -mos regardless the inflection classes.This part of the thesis develops a string-basedhierarchical clustering algorithm that computa-tionally characterizes the similarity and differ-ences across morphological paradigms.?
Induction of morphological paradigms fromunstructured data: The third part of the thesisseeks to induce paradigms from unstructureddata.
The kind of unstructured data of interesthere is child-directed speech.
Building on pre-vious work on unsupervised learning of mor-phological paradigms from raw text, this the-sis develops an approach of paradigm induc-tion that incorporates results from the previoustwo parts of this thesis and has a version takingchild-directed speech data incrementally.These three topics on morphological paradigmsprogress in terms of the scope of data in question.The first and second parts explore structure whenparadigms are given ?
one paradigm at a time, and161then a list of paradigms together.
The third part askswhere morphological paradigms come from in thefirst place.
This research will be of interest to bothlinguistics (the nature of strings, morphemes, andparadigms) and natural language processing (infor-mation retrieval, machine translation).2 Stem identificationGiven a morphological paradigm with inflectedword forms, what is the stem of the paradigm?
Thisquestion on stem identification is part of the mor-pheme segmentation problem, important for boththeoretical linguistics (Spencer 2012) and compu-tational linguistics (Goldsmith 2010, Hammarstr?omand Borin 2011); once the stem is identified, whatis not the stem in each word form can be subjectto further segmentation and morphological analy-sis for potential affixes.
Stem identification is farfrom being a trivial problem.
Strictly concatenativemorphology, as exemplified by English jump-jumps-jumped-jumping with ?jump?
as the stem, appearsintuitively simple.
In contrast, non-concatenativemorphology, a well-known case being Arabic root-and-pattern morphology (e.g., kataba ?he wrote?,yaktubu ?he writes/will write?
with ?k-t-b?
as thestem) has been treated as something fundamen-tally different.
The first part of this thesis seeksto develop language-independent, algorithmic ap-proaches to stem identification which are sufficientlygeneral to work with both concatenative and non-concatenative morphology.2.1 Linearity and contiguityThe problem of stem identification begins with thedefinition of ?stem?
in a morphological paradigm.A common and language-independent assumptionis that the stem (broadly construed, encompassing?root?
and ?base?)
is the maximal common materialacross all word forms in the paradigm.
This thesisexplores different definitions of ?maximal commonmaterial?
in search of general algorithms of stemidentification for languages of different morphologi-cal types.
In particular, we examine ways of charac-terizing strings in terms of linearity and contiguity.As a point of departure, we take the maximalcommon material to mean the maximal commonsubstring, a very intuitive and common assumptionin morpheme segmentation.
To illustrate the idea ofa substring with respect to linearity and contiguity,consider the string ?abcde?.
?a?, ?bc?, and ?cde?
areits substrings.
?ac?
is not a possible substring, be-cause ?a?
and ?c?
are not contiguous.
?ba?
is not asubstring either, because ?a?
does not linearly comeafter ?b?
in the string ?abcde?.
Because substringsembody both linearity and contiguity, if a stem in amorphological paradigm is the longest common sub-string across the word forms, then this approach ofstem identification works well only for strictly con-catenative morphology but not for anything that de-viates from it.
To solve this problem, this thesis ex-plores various ways of defining the maximal com-mon material with regard to linearity and contiguity.2.2 Substrings, multisets, and subsequencesThe definition of maximal common material maydepend on whether linearity and contiguity are re-spected.
Three major definitions along these two pa-rameters are of interest; see Table 1:Substring Multiset SubsequenceLinearity ?
?
?Contiguity ?
?
?Table 1: Three definitions of maximal common materialfor stem identification in terms of linearity and contiguity(The possibility of maintaining contiguity but aban-doning linearity results in pairs of symbols whichappear to be less informative for stem identification.
)As noted above, defining the stem as the max-imal common substring is suboptimal for non-concatenative morphology.
The two other strategiesconsider the stem as the maximal common multisetor subsequence, illustrated in Table 2 by the Span-ish verb PODER ?to be able?
conjugated in presentindicative.
Taking the stem to be the maximal com-mon multiset yields the set {p,d,e} as the stem forthe PODER paradigm.
Table 2 highlights the stemmaterial for each word form.
Certain word formshave multiple stem analyses because of the multi-ple occurrences of ?e?
in the words concerned; thesecan be resolved by cross-paradigmatic comparisonin section 3 below or paradigm-internal heuristics(e.g., choosing the stem that is the most congruentwith non-stem material compared to other words inthe paradigm, as in Ahlberg et al 2014).
In contrast,162if the stem is the maximal common subsequence,then there are two competing stems for the PODERparadigm: p-d and p-e (using ?-?
to denote linear or-der without committing to contiguity).
These twostems are tied because they each contain two sym-bols and are the longest possible common subse-quences in the paradigms.Multiset Subsequence{p,d,e} p-d p-epuedo puedo puedo puedopuedespuedespuedespuedespuedespuedespuedepuedepuedepuedepuedepuedepodemos podemos podemos podemospod?eis podeis podeis podeispuedenpuedenpuedenpuedenpuedenpuedenTable 2: Stem as maximal common multiset or subse-quence for the Spanish PODER paradigm conjugated forpresent indicativeThe subsequence approach has clear merits.
Re-cent work?both directly and indirectly on stemidentification?appears to converge on the use ofthe subsequence approach (Fullwood and O?Donnell2013, Ahlberg et al 2014).
This is because itcan handle Arabic-type non-concatenative morphol-ogy, infixation, circumfixation (as in German ge-X-t), and (trivially) the jump-type strictly concatena-tive morphology.
In general, linearity appears to bemore important than contiguity in stem identifica-tion.
It must be noted, however, that probably forthe more familiar properties of substrings, linguistsare accustomed to using multi-tier substrings to han-dle surface non-contiguity, e.g., McCarthy (1985) ontemplatic morphology and Heinz and Lai (2013) onvowel harmony.This part of the thesis serves as the foundationalwork for the later parts.
For this first part, languagesof interest include those with morphology divergingfrom simple concatenation, e.g., English with weaksuppletion, Spanish with stem allomorphy, Arabicwith templatic morphology, and German with cir-cumfixation.
Datasets come from standard sourcessuch as Wiktionary (cf.
Durrett and DeNero 2013).In terms of evaluation, a particular stem identifi-cation algorithm can be tested for whether it pro-vides the correct stems for paradigm generation, anevaluation method connected to the clustering ofparadigms in section 3.Apart from stems, stem identification necessar-ily identifies the residual, non-stem material in eachword form in the paradigm.
The non-stem materialis analogous to the affixes and stem allomorphs (e.g.,the o?ue alternation in PODER).
It plays an impor-tant role in terms of structure across morphologicalparadigms, the subject of the next section.3 Paradigmatic similarityThe second part of the thesis asks what structurethere is across morphological paradigms.
Wordforms across paradigms do not alternate in the samepattern.
Linguists discuss this in terms of inflectionclasses, which introduce differences across morpho-logical paradigms.
At the same time, however, mor-phological patterns are also systematically similar.This part of the thesis focuses on the modeling ofparadigm similarity and develops a string-based hi-erarchical clustering algorithm that computationallycharacterizes the similarity and differences acrossmorphological paradigms, with both theoretical andpractical values.3.1 Inflection classesMorphological paradigms often do not inflect in thesame way, which leads to inflection classes.
For ex-ample, Spanish verbs are classified into three conju-gation groups (commonly referred to as -AR, -ER,and -IR verbs), illustrated in Table 3 for the inflec-tional suffixes (all person and number combinations)in present indicative.-AR -ER -IR1.SG -o -o -o2.SG -as -es -es3.SG -a -e -e1.PL -amos -emos -imos2.PL -?ais -?eis -?
?s3.PL -an -en -enTable 3: Suffixes for the three Spanish conjugationgroups in present indicativeThe Spanish conjugation classes show what iscommon across languages that this part of the the-163sis models: partial similarity across morphologi-cal paradigms.
Spanish is described as having threeconjugation classes for the three distinct overall suf-fixing patterns.
For example, they are completelydifferent for first-person plurals (-amos, -emos, and-imos).
At the same time, they share a great deal incommon.
Across all three classes, the first-personsingular suffixes are -o, the second-person singularsuffixes end with -s, and so forth.
Some classesshare properties to the exclusion of others: the sec-ond and third conjugation groups share -es, -e, -enfor 2.SG, 3.SG, 3.PL respectively, but the first con-jugation group have -as, -a, -an instead.The similarities and differences which morpho-logical paradigms exhibit as inflection classes areof interest to both linguistics and natural languageprocessing.
In linguistics, the partial similaritiesacross inflection classes prompt theoretical ques-tions on the extent to which paradigms can differfrom one another (Carstairs 1987, M?uller 2007).Computationally, inflection classes introduce non-uniformity across paradigms and must be handledin one way or another in an automatic morphologylearning system.
Previous work has opted to explic-itly learn inflection classes (Goldsmith and O?Brien2006) or collapse them in some way (Chan 2006,Hammarstr?om 2009, Monson 2009, Zeman 2009).3.2 Clustering for paradigm similarityThis thesis aims to characterize paradigm similar-ity in a way that is amenable to a linguistic analy-sis and a formal model of paradigm similarity use-ful for computational tasks related to paradigms.
Asdiscussed above, similarities and differences criss-cross one another in morphological paradigms andresult in inflection classes.
It is therefore rea-sonable to think of morphological paradigms ashaving a string-based hierarchical structure, whereparadigms more similar to one another by the in-flectional patterns cluster together.
Haspelmath andSims (2010) explore just this idea using data fromGreek nouns and demonstrate how inflection classescan be modeled as a problem of clustering, thoughtheir work appears to be based purely on the hu-man linguist?s intuition and is not computationallyimplemented.
This thesis proposes a string-basedhierarchical clustering algorithm (with morpholog-ical paradigms as the objects of interest to cluster)for modeling paradigm similarity, which is (i) builton results of stem identification from section 2 and(ii) useful for further computational tasks such asparadigm generation.There are multiple advantages of proposing aclustering algorithm for morphological paradigms.To the linguist, results of clustering paradigms canbe visualized, which will be helpful for the study ofinflectional structure of the morphology of less fa-miliar languages (such as those based on fieldworkdata).
For computational linguistics and natural lan-guage processing, clustering provides a similaritymeasure that is useful for inducing unobserved wordforms of incomplete morphological paradigms.The proposed algorithm performs agglomerativehierarchical clustering on a given list of morpholog-ical paradigms.
It involves stem identification (sec-tion 2) that determines the non-stem material in theword forms of each paradigm.
The distance metricmeasures similarity among the paradigms by com-paring non-stem material, which forms the basis ofthe distance matrix for hierarchical clustering.Preliminary work (Lee 2014) suggests that clus-tering morphological paradigms gives desirable re-sults.
To illustrate, Figure 1 shows the clustering re-sults of our algorithm under development for severalEnglish verbal paradigms (by orthography).
For rea-sons of space, the results of only ten English verbsare discussed here; see Lee (2014) for details.jump walkmove lovepush touchtry crybuy seekFigure 1: Simplified clustering results for a few Englishverbal paradigms, each represented by the infinitive formIn Figure 1, the two largest clusters of verbs arethe one with more regular morphology on the left(JUMP, WALK, MOVE, LOVE, PUSH, TOUCH) andthe other on the right with verbs of more drastic in-flectional/orthographic alternations (TRY, CRY withthe i?y alternation, and BUY, SEEK with -ght inpast tense).
The smaller clusters among the regu-lar verbs are due to the form for third person sin-gular in present tense (PUSH, TOUCH with an addi-164tional ?e?)
and the verb-final ?e?
(MOVE, LOVE with?e?
dropped for the -ing form).
This example showsthat clustering morphological paradigms provides amuch more fine-grained characterization of inflec-tion classes, which are usually described in non-hierarchical terms in linguistics.An open question here is how to evaluate the re-sults of clustering morphological paradigms.
Themajor issue is that morphological paradigms are usu-ally not hierarchically represented in standard de-scriptions, thereby making it unclear what the goldstandard could be.
One possibility is that the learnedinflection classes (based on clusters of paradigms)be compared to those in standard grammatical de-scriptions of the language in question.
Alternatively,the results can be evaluated indirectly by what the in-duced structure should facilitate, namely paradigmgeneration; this also evaluates stem identification insection 2.
Datasets of paradigm tables for languageswith inflection classes (English, Greek, Spanish, etc)come from standard sources such as Wiktionary.Paradigm generation takes a paradigm table withheld-out words for some paradigms, and the goal isto recover the missing words using (i) stems com-puted based on the available words in the respectiveparadigms (section 2) and (ii) non-stem material aspredicted based on the cross-paradigmatic cluster in-formation (this section).4 Induction of morphological paradigmsfrom unstructured dataThe discussion so far has assumed that a list of mor-phological paradigms are available for the study ofstructure within (section 2) and across (section 3)paradigms.
While this is a common practice in thecognitive and computational modeling of morpho-logical paradigms (Albright and Hayes 2002, Dur-rett and DeNero 2013), it is legitimate to ask wherea list of morphological paradigms come from in thefirst place.
This part of the thesis attempts to providean answer to this question.
Building on previouswork on unsupervised paradigm induction, this the-sis will propose a language-independent, incremen-tal paradigm learning system that induces paradigmswith child-directed speech data as the input.4.1 Incremental paradigm inductionThe unsupervised learning of morphologicalparadigms has attracted a lot of interest in compu-tational linguistics and natural language processing(Goldsmith 2001, Schone and Jurafsky 2001, Chan2006, Creutz and Lagus 2005, Monson 2009,Dreyer and Eisner 2011, Ahlberg et al 2014).
Vir-tually all previous work proposes a batch algorithmof paradigm induction, rather than an online andincremental learner, that takes some raw text as theinput data.
This is probably cognitively implausible,because a human child does not have access to allinput data at once.
This thesis proposes an incre-mental paradigm induction system to fill this gapof the relative lack of work on the incremental andunsupervised learning of morphological paradigms.As a starting point, the proposed paradigm induc-tion system will use one akin to Linguistica (Gold-smith 2001) and adapt it as an incremental version.The choice of a system like Linguistica as the pointof departure is justified, because the goal here isto induce morphological paradigms from unstruc-tured data but not necessarily morpheme segmenta-tion (accomplished by other systems such as Mor-fessor (Creutz and Lagus 2005) that focus stronglyon morphologically rich languages such as Finnishand Turkish).
Linguistica induces paradigms byfinding the optimal cut between a stem and an affixacross words that could enter into paradigmatic rela-tions, and does not perform further morpheme seg-mentation.
A characteristic of Linguistica that willbe modified in this thesis is that of stem identifica-tion: as it currently stands, it assumes (i) strictly con-catenative morphology (i.e., stem as maximal com-mon substring), and (ii) knowledge of whether thelanguage under investigation is suffixing or prefix-ing.
In line with the general goal of coming up withlanguage-independent algorithms to handle naturallanguage morphology, we will make use of the re-sults from section 2 on stem identification for lan-guages of diverse morphological types.The input data will child-directed speech fromCHILDES (MacWhinney 2000) for North Ameri-can English.
Specifically, we will be using a datasetof four million word tokens compiled from child-directed speech data of age range from a few monthsold to 12 years old.
The proposed algorithm will165make use of the temporal information of the child-directed speech and read the data in small andchronologically ordered chunks.
As such, this incre-mental version of Linguistica models child languageacquisition, and the results will be of much interestto linguists.
For evaluation, research on the childacquisition of English morphology (Cazden 1968,Brown 1973) provides the gold standard informa-tion on the order of acquisition of major morpho-logical patterns (plurals acquired before possessives,present progressives acquired before pasts, etc).4.2 Collapsing paradigms of differentinflection classesA recurrent problem in unsupervised learning ofmorphological paradigms is that certain inducedmorphological paradigmatic patterns may appear in-complete (due to unobserved word forms) or dis-tinct on the surface (due to inflection classes), butshould intuitively be collapsed in some way (Gold-smith 2009).
For inflection classes, for instance, En-glish verbs display a regular morphological patternas in ?-s-ed-ing (e.g., for JUMP), but there is alsoa very similar?but distinct?pattern, with e-es-ed-ing (e.g., for MOVE with the silent ?e?
); this Englishexample is by orthography, but is analogous to Span-ish verbs with inflection classes discussed above.Ideally, it would be desirable to collapse morpho-logical patterns, e.g., the two English morphologi-cal patterns just mentioned as belonging to the ver-bal category and with the correct morphosyntacticalignment for the suffixes across the two patterns.Previous work either ignores this issue and treats thedistinct surface patterns as is (e.g., Goldsmith 2001)or attempts to collapse morphological patterns (e.g.,Chan 2006, with the assumption of part-of-speechtags being available).This thesis will explore the possibility of collaps-ing paradigms of different inflection classes withno annotations (e.g., part-of-speech tags) in the in-put data.
Some sort of syntactic information willhave to be induced and combined with the inducedmorphological knowledge, in the spirit of previouswork such as Higgins (2002) and Clark (2003).
Weare currently using graph-theoretical approaches tothe unsupervised learning of syntactic categories.Based on Goldsmith and Wang?s (2012) proposal ofthe word manifold, a given corpus is modeled as agraph, where the nodes are the words and the edgesconnect words that are distributionally similar basedon n-grams from the corpus.
The resulting graph hasdistributionally (and therefore syntactically) similarwords densely connected together, e.g., modal verbsand infinitives in Figure 2.
Various graph cluster-ing algorithms are being explored for the purposesof word category induction.Figure 2: A zoomed-in image of clusters of modal verbsand infinitives in a 1,000-word graph5 ContributionsThis thesis will contribute to both the unsupervisedlearning of natural language morphology as wellas bringing theoretical linguistics and computationallinguistics closer together.On the unsupervised learning of natural languagemorphology, this thesis explores structure withinand across morphological paradigms and proposesalgorithms for adducing such structure given a listof morphological paradigms.
Furthermore, we alsoask how an unsupervised learning system can in-duce morphological paradigms from child-directedspeech, an area much less researched than previouswork on non-incremental and batch algorithms forparadigm induction.As for bridging theoretical linguistics and com-putational linguistics, this thesis represents a seri-ous attempt to do linguistics that is theoretically in-formed from the linguist?s perspective and is compu-tationally rigorous for implementation.
Using natu-ral language morphology as an example, this the-sis shows the value of reproducible, accessible, andextensible research from the computational commu-nity that will benefit theoretical linguistics.166ReferencesMalin Ahlberg, Markus Forsberg, and Mans Hulden.2014.
Semi-supervised learning of morphologicalparadigms and lexicons.
In Proceedings of the 14thConference of the European Chapter of the Associationfor Computational Linguistics, 569-578.
Gothenburg,Sweden.Adam Albright and Bruce Hayes.
2002.
Modeling En-glish past tense intuitions with minimal generalization.In Proceedings of the 6th meeting of the ACL SpecialInterest Group in Computational Phonology.Roger Brown.
1973.
A First Language: The EarlyStages.
Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press.Andrew Carstairs.
1987.
Allomorphy in Inflexion.
Lon-don: Croom Helm.Courtney Cazden.
1968.
The acquisition of noun andverb inflections.
Child Development 39: 433-448.Erwin Chan.
2006.
Learning probabilistic paradigmsfor morphology in a latent class model.
In Proceed-ings of the Eighth Meeting of the ACL Special InterestGroup on Computational Phonology at HLT-NAACL2006, 69-78.
New York City.Alexander Clark.
2003.
Combining distributional andmorphological information for part of speech induc-tion.
In Proceedings of the Tenth Conference on Eu-ropean Chapter of the Association for ComputationalLinguistics (volume 1), 59-66.Mathias Creutz and Krista Lagus.
2005.
Inducingthe morphological lexicon of a natural language fromunannotated text.
In Proceedings of AKRR?05, Inter-national and Interdisciplinary Conference on AdaptiveKnowledge Representation and Reasoning, 106-113.Markus Dreyer and Jason Eisner.
2011.
Discover-ing morphological paradigms from palin text using adirichlet process mixture model.
In Proceedings ofEmpirical Methods in Natural Language Processing,616-627.Greg Durrett and John DeNero.
2013.
Supervised learn-ing of complete morphological paradigms.
In Proceed-ings of the North American Chapter of the Associationfor Computational Linguistics.Michelle A. Fullwood and Timothy J. O?Donnell.
2013.Learning Non-concatenative Morphology.
In Proceed-ings of the Fourth Annual Workshop on Cognitive Mod-eling and Computational Linguistics (CMCL).John A. Goldsmith.
2001.
Unsupervised learning of themorphology of a natural language.
Computational Lin-guistics 27(2): 153-198.John A. Goldsmith.
2009.
Morphological analogy: Onlya beginning.
In James P. Blevins and Juliette Blevins(eds.
), Analogy in Grammar: Form and Acquisition,138-164.
Oxford: Oxford University Press.John A. Goldsmith.
2010.
Segmentation and morphol-ogy.
In Alexander Clark, Chris Fox, and ShalomLappin (eds.
), Handbook of Computational Linguisticsand Natural Language Processing, 364-393.
Oxford:Wiley-Blackwell.John A. Goldsmith and Jeremy O?Brien.
2006.
Learninginflectional classes.
Language Learning and Develop-ment 2(4): 219-250.John A. Goldsmith and Xiuli Wang.
2012.
Word mani-folds.
University of Chicago, ms.Harald Hammarstr?om.
2009.
Unsupervised Learning ofMorphology and the Languages of the World.
Ph.D.thesis, Chalmers University of Technology and Uni-versity of Gothenburg.Harald Hammarstr?om and Lars Borin.
2011.
Unsuper-vised learning of morphology.
Computational Linguis-tics 37(2): 309-350.Jeffrey Heinz and Regine Lai.
2013.
Vowel Harmonyand Subsequentiality.
In Andras Kornai and MarcoKuhlmann (eds.)
Proceedings of the 13th Meeting onthe Mathematics of Language (MoL 13), 52-63.Jackson L. Lee.
2014.
Automatic morphologicalalignment and clustering.
Technical report TR-2014-07, Department of Computer Science, University ofChicago.Martin Haspelmath and Andrea D. Sims.
2010.
Un-derstanding Morphology.
London: Hodder Education,2nd ed.Derrick Higgins.
2002.
A Multi-modular Approachto Model Selection in Statistical NLP.
University ofChicago Ph.D. thesis.Brian MacWhinney.
2000.
The CHILDES Project.
NewJersey: Lawrence Erlbaum Associates.John J. McCarthy.
1985.
Formal Problems in SemiticPhonology and Morphology.
New York: Garland.Christian Monson.
2009.
ParaMor: From ParadigmStructure to Natural Language Morphology Induction.Ph.D.
thesis, Carnegie Mellon University.GereonM?uller.
2007.
Notes on paradigm economy.
Mor-phology 17: 1-38.Patrick Schone and Daniel Jurafsky.
2001.
Knowledge-free induction of inflectional morphologies.
In Pro-ceedings of the second meeting of the North AmericanChapter of the Association for Computational Linguis-tics on Language Technologies, 1-9.
Association forComputational Linguistics.Andrew Spencer.
2012.
Identifying stems.
Word Struc-ture 5(1): 88-108.Daniel Zeman.
2009.
Using unsupervised paradigmacquisition for prefixes.
In Evaluating Systems forMultilingual and Multimodal Information Access, 9thWorkshop of the Cross-Language Evaluation Forum,CLEF 2008, Aarthus, Denmark, September 17-19,2008, Revised Selected Papers, 983-990.
Springer-Verlag, Berlin.167
