Human Language Technologies: The 2015 Annual Conference of the North American Chapter of the ACL, pages 598?608,Denver, Colorado, May 31 ?
June 5, 2015.c?2015 Association for Computational LinguisticsConstraint-Based Models of Lexical BorrowingYulia Tsvetkov Waleed Ammar Chris DyerLanguage Technologies InstituteCarnegie Mellon UniversityPittsburgh, PA, 15213, USA{ytsvetko, wammar, cdyer}@cs.cmu.eduAbstractLinguistic borrowing is the phenomenon oftransferring linguistic constructions (lexical,phonological, morphological, and syntactic)from a ?donor?
language to a ?recipient?
lan-guage as a result of contacts between commu-nities speaking different languages.
Borrowedwords are found in all languages, and?in con-trast to cognate relationships?borrowing rela-tionships may exist across unrelated languages(for example, about 40% of Swahili?s vocabu-lary is borrowed from Arabic).
In this paper,we develop a model of morpho-phonologicaltransformations across languages with featuresbased on universal constraints from OptimalityTheory (OT).
Compared to several standard?but linguistically na?ve?baselines, our OT-inspired model obtains good performance withonly a few dozen training examples, makingthis a cost-effective strategy for sharing lexicalinformation across languages.1 IntroductionWe may imagine that globalization is a modern phe-nomenon, but the lexicons of the world?s languagesattest to the fact that robust interaction betweencommunities of speakers of different languages iswidespread throughout history.
Language contactbreeds linguistic borrowing?a phenomenon as oldas language itself?adoption and nativization ofphonemes, morphemes, words, and syntactic con-structions from another language (Thomason andKaufman, 2001).Contact-induced borrowing is a fundamental re-search topic in linguistics; however, in computationallinguistics, very limited work has addressed model-ing this phenomenon.
The problem we address isthe identification of plausible donor words (in thedonor language) given a loanword (in the recipientlanguage), and vice versa, identification of loanwordsgiven a donor.
For example, given a Swahili loan-word safari ?journey?, our model identifies its Arabicdonor ?KQ??
(sfryh)1?journey?
(?2).
Although at ahigh level, this is an instance of the well-known prob-lem of modeling string transductions, our interest isbeing able to identify correspondences across lan-guages with minimal supervision, so as to make thetechnique applicable in low-resource settings.
To re-duce the supervision burden, we propose a model thatincludes awareness of the morpho-phonological re-pair strategies that native speakers of a language sub-consciously employ to adapt a loanword to phonolog-ical constraints of the recipient language (?3).
To thisend, we use constraint-based theories of phonology,as exemplified by Optimality Theory (OT) (Princeand Smolensky, 2008; McCarthy, 2009), which non-computational linguistic work has demonstrated tobe particularly well suited to account for phonolog-ically complex borrowing processes (Kang, 2011).We operationalize OT constraints as features in ourborrowing model (?4).We conduct a case study on Arabic and Swahili,two unrelated languages with a long history of con-tact; we then apply the model to additional languagepairs (?5).
The proposed approach significantly out-performs transliteration and cognate discovery mod-els (?6).1We use Buckwalter notation to write Arabic glosses.598donorwordToIPAloanwordRanking withOT constraintsMorphologicaladaptationSyllabificationFromIPAPhonologicaladaptationGEN - generate loanword candidates EVAL - rank candidates1 2 3 12 2Figure 1: Our morpho-phonological borrowing model conceptually has three main parts: (1) conversion of orthographicword forms to pronunciations in IPA format; (2) generation of loanword pronunciation candidates; (3) ranking ofgenerated candidates using Optimality-Theoretic constraints.
Part (1) and (2) are rule-based, (1) uses pronunciationdictionaries, (2) is based on prior linguistic studies; part (3) is learned.
In (3) we learn OT constraint weights from a fewdozen automatically extracted training examples.2 MethodologyOur task is to identify plausible donor?loan wordpairs in a language pair.
While modeling string trans-ductions is a well-studied problem in NLP, we wishto be able to learn the cross-lingual correspondencesfrom minimal amounts of data, so we propose alinguistically-motivated approach: we formulate ascoring model inspired by Optimality Theory (OT;discussed below), in which borrowing candidates areranked by universal constraints posited to underly thehuman faculty of language, and the candidates aredetermined by transduction processes articulated inprior studies of contact linguistics.As shown in figure 1, our model is conceptuallydivided into three main parts: (1) mapping of ortho-graphic word forms in two languages into a commonspace of their phonetic representation; (2) generationof loanword pronunciation candidates from a donorword; (3) ranking of generated loanword candidates,based on linguistic constraints of the donor and re-cipient languages.
Parts (1) and (2) are rule-based;whereas (3) is learned.
Each component of the modelis discussed in detail in the following sections.The model is implemented within a finite-statecascade.
Parts (1) and (2) amount to unweightedstring transformation operations.
In (1), we convertorthographic word forms to their pronunciations inthe International Phonetic Alphabet (IPA), these arepronunciation transducers.
In (2) we syllabify donorpronunciations, then perform insertion, deletion, andsubstitution of phonemes and morphemes (affixes), togenerate multiple loanword candidates from a donorword.
Although string transformation transducersin (2) can generate loanword candidates that are notfound in a recipient language vocabulary, such can-didates are filtered out due to composition with therecipient language lexicon acceptor.We perform string transformations from donor torecipient (recapitulating the historical process).
How-ever, the resulting relation (i.e., the final composedtransducer) is a bidirectional model which can just aswell be used to reason about underlying donor formsgiven recipient forms.
To employ the model in aspecific direction, one needs to optimize parameters?weights on transitions?to generate a desired set ofoutputs from a specific input.
Our model is trained todiscriminate a donor word given a loanword.
In part(3), candidates are ?evaluated?
(i.e., scored) with aweighted sum of universal constraint violations.
Thenon-negative weights, which we call ?cost vector?,constitute our model parameters and are learned us-ing a small training set of donor?recepient pairs.
Weuse a shortest path algorithm to find the path with theminimal cost.OT: constraint-based evaluation Our decision toevaluate borrowing candidates by weighting countsof ?constraint violations?
is based on Optimality The-ory, which has shown that complex surface phenom-ena can be well-explained as the interaction of con-straints on the form of outputs and the relationshipsof inputs and outputs (Kager, 1999).
Although ourlinear scoring scheme departs from OT?s standardevaluation assumptions (namely, the assumption ofan ordinal constraint ranking and strict dominancerather than constraint ?weighting?
), we are still ableto obtain effective models.Although originally a theory of monolingualphonology, OT has been adapted to account for bor-rowing by treating the donor language word as theunderlying form for the recipient language; that is,599the phonological system of the recipient language isencoded as a system of constraints, and these con-straints account for how the donor word is adaptedwhen borrowed.
There has been substantial priorwork in linguistics on borrowing in the OT paradigm(Yip, 1993; Davidson and Noyer, 1997; Jacobs andGussenhoven, 2000; Kang, 2003; Broselow, 2004;Adler, 2006; Rose and Demuth, 2006; Kenstowiczand Suchato, 2006; Kenstowicz, 2007; Mwita, 2009),but none of it has led to computational realizations.3 Generating loanword candidatesIn this section, we use the Arabic?Swahili language-pair to describe the prototypical linguistic adaptationprocesses that words undergo when borrowed.
Then,we describe how we model these processes.23.1 Case study: Arabic?Swahili borrowingThe Swahili lexicon has been influenced by Arabicdue to a prolonged period of language contact in theIndian Ocean trading (800 A.D.?1920), as well as theinfluence of Islam (Rothman, 2002).
According toseveral independent studies, Arabic loanwords consti-tute from 18% (Hurskainen, 2004) to 40% (Johnson,1939) of Swahili word types.Despite a strong susceptibility of Swahili to bor-rowing and a large fraction of Swahili words originat-ing from Arabic, the two languages are typologicallydistinct with profoundly dissimilar phonological andmorpho-syntactic systems.
Therefore, Arabic loan-words have been substantially adapted to conform toSwahili phonotactics, which we survey briefly.
First,Arabic has five syllable patterns:3CV, CVV, CVC,CVCC, and CVVC (McCarthy, 1985, pp.
23?28),whereas Swahili (like other Bantu languages) is char-acterized by the syllable ending with a vowel and CVor V syllable structure.
At the segment level, Swahililoanword adaptation thus involves extensive vowelepenthesis in consonant clusters and at a syllable fi-nal position if the syllable ends with a consonant,e.g., : H.AJ?
(ktAb) ?
kitabu ?book?
(Polom?, 1967;Schadeberg, 2009; Mwita, 2009).
Second, phonologi-cal adaptation in Swahili loanwords includes shorten-ing of vowels (unlike Arabic, Swahili does not have2For simplicity, we subsume Omani Arabic and other histori-cal dialects of Arabic under the label ?Arabic?
; similarly, we sub-sume Swahili, its dialects and protolanguages under ?Swahili?.3C stands for consonant, and V for vowel.phonemic length); substitution of consonants that arefound in Arabic but not in Swahili (e.g., emphatic(pharyngealized) /tQ/?/t/, voiceless velar fricative/x/?/k/, dental fricatives /T/?/s/, /D/?/z/, andthe voiced velar fricative /G/?/g/); adoption of Ara-bic phonemes that were not originally present inSwahili /T/, /D/, /G/ (e.g., QKYm'(tH*yr)?
tahad-hari ?warning?
); degemination of Arabic geminateconsonants (e.g.,Q??
($r~)?
shari ?evil?).
Finally,adapted loanwords can freely undergo Swahili inflec-tional and derivational processes, e.g., QKP??
@ (Alwzyr)?
waziri ?minister?, mawaziri ?ministers?, kiuwaziri?ministerial?
(Zawawi, 1979; Schadeberg, 2009).3.2 Arabic?Swahili borrowing transducersWe describe unweighted transducers for pronuncia-tion, syllabification, and morphological and phono-logical adaptation.
An example that illustrates someof the possible string transformations by individualcomponents of the model is shown in figure 2.
Thegoal of these transducers is to minimally overgener-ate Swahili adapted forms of Arabic words, based onthe adaptations described above.Pronunciation.
Based on the IPA, we assignshared symbols to sounds that exist in both soundsystems of Arabic and Swahili (e.g., nasals /n/, /m/;voiced stops /b/, /d/), and language-specific uniquesymbols to sounds that are unique to the phonemicinventory of Arabic (e.g., pharyngeal voiced andvoiceless fricatives /?/, /Q/) or Swahili (e.g., velarnasal /N/).
For Swahili, we construct a pronunciationdictionary based on the Omniglot grapheme-to-IPAmapping.4In Arabic, we use the CMU Arabicvowelized pronunciation dictionary containing about700K types which has an average of four pronuncia-tions per word (Metze et al, 2010).5We then designfour transducers?Arabic and Swahili word-to-IPAand IPA-to-word transducers?each as a union oflinear chain transducers, as well as one acceptor perpronunciation dictionary listing.4www.omniglot.com5Since we are working at the level of word types whichhave no context, we cannot disambiguate the intended form, sowe include all options.
For example, for the input word AK.AJ?
(ktAbA) ?book.sg.indef?, we use both pronunciations /kitAbA/and /kuttAbA/.600ku.ta<DEP-V>ta<PEAK>.ba.li<DEP-MORPH>.ku.ta<DEP-V>ta<PEAK>.ba.li.ku.tta<*COMPLEX>.ba.ki.ta.bu<IDENT-IO-V>.ki.ta.bu<DEP-V>.vi<DEP-MORPH>.ki.ta.bu<IDENT-IO-V>.?????kuttabakitaba...ku.tta.ba.ku.t.ta.ba....ki.ta.ba.ki.ta.b....ku.ta.ba.
[degemination]ku.tata.ba.
[epenthesis]ku.ta.bu.
[final vowel subst.]ki.ta.bu.
[final vowel subst.]ki.ta.bu.
[epenthesis]...ku.tata.ba.li.ku.tata.ba.vi.ki.ta.bu.ki.ta.bu.ki.ta.bu....kitaEXSyllabificationArabic wordto IPAPhonologicaladaptationMorphologicaladaptationIPA toSwahili wordRanking withOT constraintsFigure 2: An example of an Arabic word AK.AJ?
(ktAbA) ?book.sg.indef?
transformed by our model into a Swahililoanword kitabu.Syllabification.
Arabic words borrowed intoSwahili undergo a repair of violations of the Swahilisegmental and phonotactic constraints, for examplevia vowel epenthesis in a consonant cluster.
Impor-tantly, repair depends upon syllabification.
To simu-late plausible phonological repair processes, we gen-erate multiple syllabification variants for input pro-nunciations.
The syllabification transducer optionallyinserts syllable separators between phones.
For ex-ample, for an input phonetic sequence /kuttAbA/, theoutput strings include /ku.t.tA.bA/, /kut.tA.bA/, and/ku.ttA.bA/ as syllabification variants; each variantviolates different constraints and consequently trig-gers different phonological adaptation.Phonological adaptation.
Phonological adapta-tion of syllabified phone sequences is the crux ofthe loanword adaptation process.
We implementphonological adaptation transducers as a composi-tion of plausible context-dependent insertions, dele-tions, and substitutions of phone subsets, based onprior studies summarized in ?3.1.
In what follows,we list phonological adaptation components in theorder of transducer composition in the borrowingmodel.
The vowel deletion transducer shortens Ara-bic long vowels and vowel clusters.
The consonantdegemination transducer shortens Arabic geminateconsonants, e.g., it degeminates /tt/ in /ku.ttA.bA/,outputting /ku.tA.bA/.
The substitution of similarphonemes transducer substitutes similar phonemesand phonemes that are found in Arabic but not inSwahili (Polom?, 1967, p. 45).
For example, the em-phatic /tQ/, /dQ/, /sQ/ are replaced by the correspond-ing non-emphatic segments [t], [d], [s].
The vowelepenthesis transducer inserts a vowel between pairsof consonants (/ku.ttA.bA/ ?
/ku.tatA.bA/), and atthe end of a syllable, if the syllable ends with a con-sonant (/ku.t.tA.bA/ ?
/ku.ta.tA.bA/).
Sometimesit is possible to predict the final vowel of a word,depending on the word-final coda consonant of itsArabic counterpart: /u/ or /o/ added if an Arabicdonor ends with a labial, and /i/ or /e/ added aftercoronals and dorsals (Mwita, 2009).
Following theserules, the final vowel substitution transducer com-plements the inventory of final vowels in loanwordcandidates.Morphological adaptation.
Both Arabic andSwahili have significant morphological processesthat alter the appearance of lemmas.
To deal withmorphological variants, we construct morphologicaladaptation transducers that optionally strip Arabicconcatenative affixes and clitics, and then optionallyappend Swahili affixes, generating a superset of allpossible loanword hypotheses.
We obtain the listof Arabic affixes from the Arabic morphological an-alyzer SAMA (Maamouri et al, 2010); the Swahiliaffixes are taken from a hand-crafted Swahili mor-phological analyzer (Littell et al, 2014).4 Learning constraint weightsDue to the computational problems of working withOT (Eisner, 1997; Eisner, 2002), we make sim-plifying assumptions by (1) bounding the theoret-ically infinite set of underlying forms with a smalllinguistically-motivated subset of allowed transfor-mations on donor pronunciations, as described in ?3;(2) imposing a priori restrictions on the set of thesurface realizations by intersecting the candidate setwith the recipient pronunciation lexicon; (3) assum-ing that the set of constraints is finite and regular(Ellison, 1994); and (4) assigning linear weights toconstraints, rather than learning an ordinal constraintranking (Boersma and Hayes, 2001; Goldwater and601Faithfulness constraintsMAX-IO-MORPH no (donor) affix deletionMAX-IO-C no consonant deletionMAX-IO-V no vowel deletionDEP-IO-MORPH no (recipient) affix epenthesisDEP-IO-V no vowel epenthesisIDENT-IO-C no consonant substitutionIDENT-IO-C-M no subst.
in manner of pronunciationIDENT-IO-C-A no subst.
in place of articulationIDENT-IO-C-S no subst.
in sonorityIDENT-IO-C-P no pharyngeal consonant substitutionIDENT-IO-C-G no glottal consonant substitutionIDENT-IO-C-E no emphatic consonant substitutionIDENT-IO-V no vowel substitutionIDENT-IO-V-O no subst.
in vowel opennessIDENT-IO-V-R no subst.
in vowel roundnessIDENT-IO-V-F no subst.
in vowel frontnessIDENT-IO-V-FIN no final vowel substitutionTable 1: Faithfulness constraints prefer pronounced re-alizations completely congruent with their underlyingforms.Johnson, 2003).OT distinguishes ?markedness?
constraints (Mc-Carthy and Prince, 1995), which detect dispreferredphonetic patterns in the language, and ?faithfulness?constraints (Prince and Smolensky, 2008), which en-sure correspondences between the underlying formand the surface candidates.6The implemented con-straints are listed in tables 1 and 2.
Faithfulness con-straints are integrated in phonological transformationcomponents as transitions following each insertion,deletion, or substitution.
Markedness constraints areimplemented as standalone identity transducers: in-puts are equal outputs, but path weights representingcandidate evaluation with respect to violated con-straints are different.The final ?loanword transducer?
is the compositionof all transducers described in ?3 and OT constrainttransducers.
A path in the transducer represents asyllabified phonemic sequence along with (weighted)6To clarify the distinction between faithfulness and marked-ness constraint groups to the NLP readership, we can draw thefollowing analogy to the components of machine translation orspeech recognition: faithfulness constraints are analogical tothe translation model or acoustic model (reflecting input), whilemarkedness constraints are analogical to the language model(requiring well-formedness of the output).
Without faithfulnessconstraints, the optimal surface form could differ arbitrarily fromthe underlying form.Markedness constraintsNO-CODA syllables must not have a codaONSET syllables must have onsetsPEAK there is only one syllabic peakSSP complex onsets rise in sonority,complex codas fall in sonority*COMPLEX-S no consonant clusters on syllable margins*COMPLEX-C no consonant clusters within a syllable*COMPLEX-V no vowel clustersTable 2: Markedness constraints impose language-specific structural well-formedness of surface realizations.OT constraints it violates, and shortest path outputsare those, whose cumulative weight of violated con-straints is minimal.OT constraints are realized as features in our linearmodel, and feature weights are learned in a discrimi-native training to maximize the accuracy obtained bythe loanword transducer on a small development setof donor?recipient pairs.
For parameter estimation,we employ the Nelder?Mead algorithm (Nelder andMead, 1965), a heuristic derivative-free method thatiteratively optimizes, based on an objective functionevaluation, the convex hull of n+1 simplex vertices.7The objective function is the ?soft accuracy?
of thedevelopment set, defined as the proportion of cor-rectly identified donor words in the total set of 1-bestoutputs.5 Adapting the model to a new languageAlthough we conduct a thorough case study on theArabic?Swahili language pair, our methodology caneasily be generalized to other language pairs.
Stringtransformation operations, as well as OT constraintsare language-universal.
The only adaptation requiredis a linguistic analysis to identify plausible morpho-phonological repair strategies for the new languagepair (i.e., a subset of allowed insertions, deletions andsubstitutions of phonemes and morphemes).
Sincewe need only to overgenerate candidates (the OT con-straints will filter bad outputs), the effort is minimalrelative to many other grammar engineering exer-cises.
The second language-specific component is thegrapheme-to-IPA converter.
While this can be a non-7The decision to use Nelder?Mead rather than more conven-tional gradient-based optimization algorithms was motivated bypractical limitations of the finite-state toolkit we used that madecomputing derivatives with latent structure impractical.602trivial problem in some cases, the problem is wellstudied, and many under-resourced languages have?phonographic?
systems where orthography corre-sponds to phonology, rather than organically evolvedwritten forms, which makes the mapping problemtrivial.To illustrate the ease with which a language paircan be engineered, we applied our borrowing modelto the French?Romanian language pair.
AlthoughFrench and Romanian are sister languages (both de-scending from Latin), about 12% of Romanian typesare true French borrowings that came into the lan-guage in the past few centuries (Schulte, 2009).
Weemploy the GLOBALPHONE pronunciation dictio-nary for French (Schultz and Schlippe, 2014) (weconvert it to IPA), and automatically construct aRomanian pronunciation dictionary using Omniglotgrapheme-to-IPA conversion rules.6 ExperimentsOur experimental setup is defined as follows.
Theinput to the borrowing model is a loanword candi-date in Swahili/Romanian,8the outputs are plausibledonor words in the Arabic/French monolingual lexi-con (i.e., any word in pronunciation dictionary).
Wetrain the borrowing model using a small set of train-ing examples, and then evaluate it using a held-outtest set.
In the rest of this section we describe indetail our datasets, tools, and experimental results.Resources We employ Arabic?English andSwahili?English bitexts to extract a training set(corpora of sizes 5.4M and 14K sentence pairs,respectively), using a cognate discovery technique(Kondrak, 2001).
Phonetically and semanticallysimilar strings are classified as cognates; phoneticsimilarity is the string similarity between phoneticrepresentations, and semantic similarly is approxi-mated by translation.9We thereby extract Arabic8Our model does not provide a mechanism for identifyingloanwords in the recipient language; we only model the borrow-ing process.
Classifying loanwords in the recipient language isan interesting but ultimately different problem: the ontologicalstatus of words in a lexicon is a difficult problem, even for humanexperts, however, knowledge of cross-lingual correspondencesis a valuable feature, and as such, our work can be understood asenabling this.9This cognate discovery technique is sufficient to extract asmall training set, but is not generally applicable, as it requiresand Swahili pairs ?a, s?
that are phonetically similar(?
(a,s)min(|a|,|s|)< 0.5) where ?
(a, s) is the Levenshteindistance between a and s and that are aligned to thesame English word e. FastAlign (Dyer et al, 2013)is used for word alignments.
Given an extractedword pair ?a, s?, we also extract word pairs {?a?, s?
}for all proper Arabic words a?which share the samelemma with a producing on average 33 Arabic typesper Swahili type.
We use MADA (Habash et al,2009) for Arabic morphological expansion.From the resulting dataset of 490 extracted Arabic?Swahili borrowing examples,10we set aside ran-domly sampled 73 examples (15%) for evaluation,11and use the remaining 417 examples for model param-eter optimization.
For French?Romanian languagepair, we use an existing small annotated set of bor-rowing examples,12with 282 training and 50 (15%)randomly sampled test examples.We use pyfst?a Python interface to OpenFst(Allauzen et al, 2007)?for the borrowing modelimplementation.13Baselines We compare our model to several base-lines.
In the Levenshtein (L) distance base-lines we chose the closest word (either surface orpronunciation-based).
In the Levenshtein-weighted(L-W) baselines, we evaluate a variant of the Lev-enshtein distance tuned to identify cognates (Mannand Yarowsky, 2001; Kondrak and Sherif, 2006); thismethod was identified by Kondrak and Sherif (2006)among the top three cognate identification methods.In the CRF baselines we generate plausible ?translit-erations?
of the input Swahili (or Romanian) wordsin the donor lexicon using the model of Ammar etal.
(2012), with multiple references in a lattice andwithout reranking.
The CRF transliteration modelis a linear-chain CRF where we label each sourcecharacter with a sequence of target characters.
Thefeatures are label unigrams, label bigrams, and labelparallel corpora or manually constructed dictionaries to measuresemantic similarity.
Large parallel corpora are unavailable formost language pairs, including Swahili?English.10In each training/test example one Swahili word correspondsto all extracted Arabic donor words.11We manually verified that our test set contains clear Arabic?Swahili borrowings.
For example, we extract Swahili kusafiri,safari and Arabic Q???
@, Q?
?, Q??
(Alsfr, ysAfr, sfr) all alignedto ?travel?.12http://wold.clld.org/vocabulary/813https://github.com/vchahun/pyfst603conjoined with a moving window of source charac-ters.
In the OT-uniform baseline, we evaluate the ac-curacy of the borrowing model with uniform weights,thus shortest paths in the loanwords transducer willbe forms violating the fewest constraints.Evaluation In addition to predictive accuracy onall models (if a model produces multiple hypotheseswith the same 1-best weight, we count the proportionof correct outputs in this set), we evaluate two partic-ular aspects of our proposed model: (1) appropriate-ness of the model family, and (2) the quality of thelearned OT constraint weights.
The first aspect is de-signed to evaluate whether the morpho-phonologicaltransformations implemented in the model are re-quired and sufficient to generate loanwords from thedonor inputs.
We report two evaluation measures:model reachability and ambiguity.
Reachability isa percentage of test samples that are reachable (i.e.,there is a path from the input test example to a cor-rect output) in the loanword transducer.
A na?vemodel which generates all possible strings wouldscore 100% reachability, but it will be hard to set themodel parameters such that it discriminates betweengood and bad candidates.
In order to capture thistrade-off, we also report the inherent ambiguity ofour model, which is the average number of outputspotentially generated per input.
A generic Arabic?Swahili transducer, for example, has an ambiguityof 786,998?the size of the Arabic pronunciationlexicon.Results The borrowing model reachability and am-biguity are listed in table 3.
The model obtains highreachability, while significantly reducing the aver-age number of possible outputs per input: in Arabicfrom 787K to 857 words, in French from 62K to12.
This result shows that the loanword transducerdesign, based on the prior linguistic analysis, is aplausible model of word borrowing.
Yet, there are onaverage 33 correct Arabic words out of the possible857 outputs, thus the second part of the model?OTconstraint weights optimization?is crucial.The accuracy results in table 4 show how challeng-ing the task of modeling lexical borrowing betweentwo distinct languages is, and importantly, that ortho-graphic and phonetic baselines including the state-of-the-art generative model of transliteration are notsuitable for this task.
Phonetic baselines for Arabic?AR?SW FR?ROReachability 87.7% 82.0%Ambiguity 857 12Table 3: The evaluation of the borrowing model design.Reachability is a percentage of donor?recipient pairs thatare reachable from a donor to a recipient language.
Am-biguity is an average number of outputs that the modelgenerates per one input.Accuracy (%)AR?SW FR?ROOrthographicL 8.9 38.0CRF 16.4 36.0PhoneticL 19.8 26.3L-W 19.7 30.7OTOT-U 29.3 58.5OT 48.4 75.6Table 4: The evaluation of the borrowing model accuracy.The baselines are orthographic (surface) and phonetic(based on pronunciation lexicon) Levenshtein distance(L), heuristic Levenshtein distance with lower penaltyon vowel updates and similar letter/phone substitutions(L-W), CRF transliteration, and our model with uniform(OT-U) and learned OT constraint weights assignment.Swahili perform better than orthographic ones, butsubstantially worse than OT-based models, even ifOT constraints are not weighted.
Crucially, the per-formance of the borrowing model with the learnedOT weights corroborates the assumption made in nu-merous linguistic accounts that OT is an adequateanalysis of the lexical borrowing phenomenon.Qualitative evaluation The constraint rankinglearned by the borrowing model (constraints arelisted in tables 1, 2) is in line with prior linguisticanalysis.
Space precludes a thorough discussion, butwe highlight a few points.
In Swahili NO-CODA domi-nates all other markedness constraints, as expected.Both *COMPLEX-S and *COMPLEX-C, restricting con-sonant clusters, dominate *COMPLEX-V, confirmingthat Swahili is more permissive to vowel clusters.SSP?sonority-based constraint?captures a commonpattern of consonant clustering, found across lan-guages, and is also learned by our model as undomi-nated by most competitors in Swahili, and as a domi-nating markedness constraint in Romanian.
Finally,vowel epenthesis DEP-IO-V is the most common strat-egy in Arabic loanword adaptation, and is rankedlower according to the model; however, it is ranked604EN AR gloss AR pronunciation SW syllabification Violated OT constraintsbook ktAb kitAb ki.ta.bu.
IDENT-IO-C-G?A, a?, DEP-IO-V?, u?palace AlqSr AlqaSr ka.sri MAX-IO-MORPH?Al, ?, IDENT-IO-C-S?q, k?,IDENT-IO-C-E?S, s?, *COMPLEX-C?sr?, DEP-IO-V?, i?wage Ajrh Aujrah u.ji.ra.
MAX-IO-V?A, ?, ONSET?u?
,DEP-IO-V?, i?, MAX-IO-C?h, ?Table 5: Examples of syllabification and OT constraint violations produced by our borrowing model.highly in the French?Romanian model, where vowelinsertion is rare.A second interesting by-product of our model isan inferred syllabification.
While we did not conducta systematic quantitative evaluation, higher-rankedSwahili outputs tend to contain linguistically plausi-ble syllabifications, although the syllabification trans-ducer inserts optional syllable boundaries betweenevery pair of phones.
This result further attests tothe plausible constraint ranking learned by the model.Example Swahili syllabifications14along with theOT constraint violations produced by the borrowingmodel are depicted in table 5.7 DiscussionThe task of modeling borrowing is unexplored incomputational linguistics.
In this section we firstsituate the task with respect to two most closely re-lated research directions: modeling transliterationand cognate forms.
We then motivate the new line ofresearch proposed in this work: modeling borrowing.Borrowing vs. transliteration Borrowing is nottransliteration.
Transliteration refers to writing ina different orthography, whereas borrowing refersto expanding a language to include words adaptedfrom another language.
Unlike borrowing, translit-eration is more amenable to orthographic?ratherthan morpho-phonological?features, although see(Knight and Graehl, 1998).
Borrowed words mighthave begun as transliterations, but a characteristicof borrowed words is that they become assimilatedin the linguistic system of the recipient language,and became regular content words, e.g., ?orange?and ?sugar?
are English words borrowed from Arabicl.'PAK (nArnj) and Q???
@ (Alskr), respectively.14We chose examples from the Arabic?Swahili system be-cause this is a more challenging case due to linguistic discrepan-cies.Borrowing vs. inheritance Cognates are words inrelated languages inherited from one word in a com-mon ancestral language (the proto-language).
Loan-words, on the other hand, can occur between any lan-guages, either related or not, that historically cameinto contact.
Theoretical analysis of cognates hastended to be concerned with a diachronic point ofview, i.e., modeling word changes across time.
Whileof immense scientific interest, language processingapplications are arguably better served by models ofsynchronic processes, peculiar to loanword analysis.Why borrowing?
Borrowing is a distinctive andpervasive phenomenon: all languages borrowed fromother languages at some point in their lifetime, andborrowed words constitute a large fraction of mostlanguage lexicons.
Another important property ofborrowing is that in adaptation of borrowed items,changes in words are systematic, knowledge of mor-phological and phonological patterns in a languagecan be used to predict how borrowings will be re-alized in that language, without having to list themall.
Therefore, modeling of borrowing is a task well-suited for computational approaches.Our suggestion in this work is that we can identifyborrowing relations between resource-limited lan-guages and resource-rich donor languages, such asEnglish, French, Spanish, Arabic, Chinese, and Rus-sian.
For example, 30?70% of the vocabulary in Viet-namese, Cantonese, and Thai?relatively resource-limited languages spoken by hundreds of millionsof people?are borrowed from Chinese and English.Similarly, African languages have been greatly in-fluenced by Arabic, Spanish, English, and French?widely spoken languages such as Swahili, Zulu,Malagasy, Hausa, Tarifit, Yoruba contain up to 40%of loanwords.
Indo-Iranian languages?Hindustani,Hindi, Urdu, Bengali, Persian, Pashto?spoken by860 million, also extensively borrowed from Ara-bic and English (Haspelmath and Tadmor, 2009).
In605short, at least a billion people are speaking resource-scarce languages whose lexicons are heavily bor-rowed from resource-rich languages.Why is this important?
Lexical translations oralignments extracted from large parallel corpora havebeen widely used to project annotations from high- tolow-resource languages (Hwa et al, 2005; T?ckstr?met al, 2013; Ganchev et al, 2009; Tsvetkov et al,2014, inter alia).
Unfortunately, parallel resourcesare unavailable for the majority of resource-limitedlanguages.
Loanwords can be used as a source ofcross-lingual links complementary to lexical align-ments.
This holds promise for applying existingcross-lingual methods and bootstrapping linguisticresources in languages where no parallel data is avail-able.8 Related workWith the exception of a study conducted by Blair andIngram (2003) on generation of borrowed phonemesin English?Japanese language pair (the method doesnot generalize from borrowed phonemes to borrowedwords, and does not rely on linguistic insights), weare not aware of any prior work on computationalmodeling of lexical borrowing.
Few papers only men-tion or tangentially address borrowing, we briefly listthem here.
Daum?
III (2009) focuses on areal effectson linguistic typology, a broader phenomenon thatincludes borrowing and genetic relations across lan-guages.
This study is aimed at discovering languageareas based on typological features of languages.
Gar-ley and Hockenmaier (2012) train a maxent classifierwith character n-gram and morphological featuresto identify anglicisms (which they compare to loan-words) in an online community of German hip hopfans.
List and Moran (2013) have published a toolkitfor computational tasks in historical linguistics butremark that ?Automatic approaches for borrowingdetection are still in their infancy in historical linguis-tics.
?Two related lines of research are transliteration andcognate identification.
Knight and Graehl (1998), Al-Onaizan and Knight (2002) developed a finite-stategenerative model of transliteration, and successfullyapplied it to Arabic?English named entity transla-tion.
Mann and Yarowsky (2001) and Kondrak (2001)identify cognate pairs, based on the learned surfaceand phonetic similarities, respectively.
As our experi-ments confirm, orthographic and phonetic translitera-tion and string edit distance methods are not adequatemodels for the complex borrowing phenomena.9 ConclusionGiven a loanword, our model identifies plausibledonor words in a contact language.
We show thata discriminative model with Optimality Theoreticfeatures effectively models systematic phonologicalchanges in Arabic?Swahili loanwords.
We also foundthat the model and methodology is generally applica-ble to other language pairs with minimal engineeringeffort.This paper makes two contributions: (1) To thebest of our knowledge, this is the first computationalmodel of lexical borrowing.
(2) While there are im-plementations of OT (Hayes et al, 2013), they areused chiefly to facilitate linguistic analysis.There are numerous research questions that wewould like to explore further.
Is it possible to mono-lingually identify borrowed words in a language?Can we automatically identify a donor language (orits phonological properties) for a borrowed word?Since languages may borrow from many sources,can jointly modeling this process lead to better per-formance?
Can we reduce the amount of language-specific engineering required to deploy our model?Can we integrate knowledge of borrowing in down-stream NLP applications?
We intend to address thesequestions in future work.AcknowledgmentsThis work was supported by the U.S. Army Re-search Laboratory and the U.S. Army ResearchOffice under contract/grant number W911NF-10-1-0533.
Computational resources were provided byGoogle in the form of a Google Cloud Computinggrant and the NSF through the XSEDE program TG-CCR110017.
We are grateful to Nathan Schneider,David Mortensen, Archna Bhatia, Shuly Wintner,Shay Cohen, David Bamman, Noah Smith, and LoriLevin for extensive discussions and constructive feed-back.606ReferencesAllison N Adler.
2006.
Faithfulness and perception inloanword adaptation: A case study from Hawaiian.
Lin-gua, 116(7):1024?1045.Yaser Al-Onaizan and Kevin Knight.
2002.
Machinetransliteration of names in Arabic text.
In Proc.
ofthe ACL workshop on Computational Approaches toSemitic Languages, pages 1?13.Cyril Allauzen, Michael Riley, Johan Schalkwyk, Woj-ciech Skut, and Mehryar Mohri.
2007.
OpenFst: Ageneral and efficient weighted finite-state transducer li-brary.
In Implementation and Application of Automata,pages 11?23.
Springer.Waleed Ammar, Chris Dyer, and Noah A. Smith.
2012.Transliteration by sequence labeling with lattice encod-ings and reranking.
In Proc.
of NEWS workshop atACL.Alan D Blair and John Ingram.
2003.
Learning to pre-dict the phonological structure of English loanwords inJapanese.
Applied Intelligence, 19(1-2):101?108.Paul Boersma and Bruce Hayes.
2001.
Empirical testsof the gradual learning algorithm.
Linguistic inquiry,32(1):45?86.Ellen Broselow.
2004.
Language contact phonology:richness of the stimulus, poverty of the base.
In Proc.of NELS, volume 34, pages 1?22.Hal Daum?
III.
2009.
Non-parametric Bayesian areallinguistics.
In Proc.
of NAACL, pages 593?601.Lisa Davidson and Rolf Noyer.
1997.
Loan phonologyin Huave: nativization and the ranking of faithfulnessconstraints.
In Proc.
of WCCFL, volume 15, pages65?79.Chris Dyer, Victor Chahuneau, and Noah A. Smith.
2013.A simple, fast, and effective reparameterization of IBMModel 2.
In Proc.
of NAACL.Jason Eisner.
1997.
Efficient generation in primitiveOptimality Theory.
In Proc.
of EACL, pages 313?320.Jason Eisner.
2002.
Comprehension and compilation inOptimality Theory.
In Proc.
of ACL, pages 56?63.T Mark Ellison.
1994.
Phonological derivation in Opti-mality Theory.
In Proc.
of CICLing, pages 1007?1013.Kuzman Ganchev, Jennifer Gillenwater, and Ben Taskar.2009.
Dependency grammar induction via bitext pro-jection constraints.
In Proc.
of ACL, pages 369?377.Matt Garley and Julia Hockenmaier.
2012.
Beefmoves:dissemination, diversity, and dynamics of English bor-rowings in a German hip hop forum.
In Proc.
of ACL,pages 135?139.Sharon Goldwater and Mark Johnson.
2003.
Learning OTconstraint rankings using a maximum entropy model.In Proc.
of the Stockholm workshop on variation withinOptimality Theory, pages 111?120.Nizar Habash, Owen Rambow, and Ryan Roth.
2009.MADA+TOKAN: A toolkit for Arabic tokenization,diacritization, morphological disambiguation, POStagging, stemming and lemmatization.
In Proc.
ofMEDAR, pages 102?109.Martin Haspelmath and Uri Tadmor, editors.
2009.
Loan-words in the World?s Languages: A Comparative Hand-book.
Max Planck Institute for Evolutionary Anthro-pology, Leipzig.Bruce Hayes, Bruce Tesar, and Kie Zuraw.2013.
OTSoft 2.3.2. software package,http://www.linguistics.ucla.edu/people/hayes/otsoft.Arvi Hurskainen.
2004.
Loan words in Swahili.
In KatrinBromber and Birgit Smieja, editors, Globalisation andAfrican Languages, pages 199?218.
Walter de Gruyter.Rebecca Hwa, Philip Resnik, Amy Weinberg, ClaraCabezas, and Okan Kolak.
2005.
Bootstrappingparsers via syntactic projection across parallel texts.Natural Language Engineering, 11(3).Haike Jacobs and Carlos Gussenhoven.
2000.
Loanphonology: perception, salience, the lexicon and OT.Optimality Theory: Phonology, syntax, and acquisition,pages 193?209.Frederick Johnson.
1939.
Standard Swahili-English dic-tionary.
Oxford University Press.Ren?
Kager.
1999.
Optimality Theory.
Cambridge Uni-versity Press.Yoonjung Kang.
2003.
Perceptual similarity in loanwordadaptation: English postvocalic word-final stops in Ko-rean.
Phonology, 20(2):219?274.Yoonjung Kang.
2011.
Loanword phonology.
In Markvan Oostendorp, Colin Ewen, Elizabeth Hume, andKeren Rice, editors, Companion to Phonology.
Wiley?Blackwell.Michael Kenstowicz and Atiwong Suchato.
2006.
Is-sues in loanword adaptation: A case study from Thai.Lingua, 116(7):921?949.Michael Kenstowicz.
2007.
Salience and similarity inloanword adaptation: a case study from Fijian.
Lan-guage Sciences, 29(2):316?340.Kevin Knight and Jonathan Graehl.
1998.
Machinetransliteration.
Computational Linguistics, 24(4):599?612.Grzegorz Kondrak and Tarek Sherif.
2006.
Evaluationof several phonetic similarity algorithms on the taskof cognate identification.
In Proc.
of the Workshop onLinguistic Distances, pages 43?50.Grzegorz Kondrak.
2001.
Identifying cognates by pho-netic and semantic similarity.
In Proc.
of NAACL, pages1?8.Johann-Mattis List and Steven Moran.
2013.
An opensource toolkit for quantitative historical linguistics.
InProc.
of ACL (System Demonstrations), pages 13?18.Patrick Littell, Kaitlyn Price, and Lori Levin.
2014.
Mor-phological parsing of Swahili using crowdsourced lexi-cal resources.
In Proc.
of LREC.607Mohamed Maamouri, Dave Graff, Basma Bouziri, SondosKrouna, and Seth Kulick.
2010.
LDC Standard Arabicmorphological analyzer (SAMA) v. 3.1.
LDC CatalogNo.
LDC2010L01.
ISBN, pages 1?58563.Gideon S Mann and David Yarowsky.
2001.
Multipathtranslation lexicon induction via bridge languages.
InProc.
of HLT-NAACL, pages 1?8.John J McCarthy and Alan Prince.
1995.
Faithfulnessand reduplicative identity.
Beckman et al (Eds.
), pages249?384.John J McCarthy.
1985.
Formal problems in Semiticphonology and morphology.
Ph.D. thesis, MIT.John J McCarthy.
2009.
Doing Optimality Theory: Apply-ing theory to data.
John Wiley & Sons.Florian Metze, Roger Hsiao, Qin Jin, Udhyakumar Nal-lasamy, and Tanja Schultz.
2010.
The 2010 CMUGALE speech-to-text system.
In Proc.
of INTER-SPEECH, pages 1501?1504.Leonard Chacha Mwita.
2009.
The adaptation of Swahililoanwords from Arabic: A constraint-based analysis.Journal of Pan African Studies.John A Nelder and Roger Mead.
1965.
A simplex methodfor function minimization.
Computer journal, 7(4):308?313.Edgar C Polom?.
1967.
Swahili Language Handbook.ERIC.Alan Prince and Paul Smolensky.
2008.
Optimality The-ory: Constraint interaction in generative grammar.John Wiley & Sons.Yvan Rose and Katherine Demuth.
2006.
Vowel epenthe-sis in loanword adaptation: Representational and pho-netic considerations.
Lingua, 116(7):1112?1139.Norman C Rothman.
2002.
Indian Ocean trading links:The Swahili experience.
Comparative CivilizationsReview, 46:79?90.Thilo C Schadeberg.
2009.
Loanwords in Swahili.
InMartin Haspelmath and Uri Tadmor, editors, Loan-words in the World?s Languages: A Comparative Hand-book, pages 76?102.
Max Planck Institute for Evolu-tionary Anthropology.Kim Schulte.
2009.
Loanwords in Romanian.
In MartinHaspelmath and Uri Tadmor, editors, Loanwords inthe World?s Languages: A Comparative Handbook,pages 230?259.
Max Planck Institute for EvolutionaryAnthropology.Tanja Schultz and Tim Schlippe.
2014.
GlobalPhone:Pronunciation dictionaries in 20 languages.
In Proc.
ofLREC.Sarah Grey Thomason and Terrence Kaufman.
2001.
Lan-guage contact.
Edinburgh University Press Edinburgh.Yulia Tsvetkov, Leonid Boytsov, Anatole Gershman, EricNyberg, and Chris Dyer.
2014.
Metaphor detectionwith cross-lingual model transfer.
In Proc.
of ACL,pages 248?258.Oscar T?ckstr?m, Dipanjan Das, Slav Petrov, Ryan Mc-Donald, and Joakim Nivre.
2013.
Token and type con-straints for cross-lingual part-of-speech tagging.
Trans-actions of the Association for Computational Linguis-tics, 1:1?12.Moira Yip.
1993.
Cantonese loanword phonology andOptimality Theory.
Journal of East Asian Linguistics,2(3):261?291.Sharifa Zawawi.
1979.
Loan words and their effect on theclassification of Swahili nominals.
Leiden: E.J.
Brill.608
