Human Language Technologies: The 2015 Annual Conference of the North American Chapter of the ACL, pages 1362?1367,Denver, Colorado, May 31 ?
June 5, 2015.c?2015 Association for Computational LinguisticsExploiting Text and Network Context for Geolocation of Social Media UsersAfshin Rahimi,1Duy Vu,2Trevor Cohn,1and Timothy Baldwin11Department of Computing and Information Systems2Department of Mathematics and StatisticsThe University of Melbournearahimi@student.unimelb.edu.au{duy.vu, t.cohn}@unimelb.edu.autb@ldwin.netAbstractResearch on automatically geolocating socialmedia users has conventionally been based onthe text content of posts from a given user orthe social network of the user, with very lit-tle crossover between the two, and no bench-marking of the two approaches over compara-ble datasets.
We bring the two threads of re-search together in first proposing a text-basedmethod based on adaptive grids, followed by ahybrid network- and text-based method.
Eval-uating over three Twitter datasets, we showthat the empirical difference between text-and network-based methods is not great, andthat hybridisation of the two is superior tothe component methods, especially in contextswhere the user graph is not well connected.We achieve state-of-the-art results on all threedatasets.1 IntroductionThere has recently been a spike in interest in thetask of inferring the location of users of social me-dia services, due to its utility in applications in-cluding location-aware information retrieval (Ami-tay et al, 2004), recommender systems (Noulas etal., 2012) and rapid disaster response (Earle et al,2010).
Social media sites such as Twitter and Face-book provide two primary means for users to de-clare their location: (1) through text-based metadatafields in the user?s profile; and (2) through GPS-based geotagging of posts and check-ins.
However,the text-based metadata is often missing, mislead-ing or imprecise, and only a tiny proportion of usersgeotag their posts (Cheng et al, 2010).
Given thesmall number of users with reliable location infor-mation, there has been significant interest in the taskof automatically geolocating (predicting lat/long co-ordinates) of users based on their publicly avail-able posts, metadata and social network information.These approaches are built on the premise that auser?s location is evident from their posts, or throughlocation homophily in their social network.Our contributions in this paper are: a) the demon-stration that network-based methods are generallysuperior to text-based user geolocation methods dueto their robustness; b) the proposal of a hybrid clas-sification method that backs-off from network- totext-based predictions for disconnected users, whichwe show to achieve state-of-the-art accuracy over allTwitter datasets we experiment with; and c) empir-ical evidence to suggest that text-based geolocationmethods are largely competitive with network-basedmethods.2 Related WorkPast work on user geolocation falls broadly into twocategories: text-based and network-based methods.Common to both methods is the manner of fram-ing the geolocation prediction problem.
Geographiccoordinates are real-valued, and accordingly this ismost naturally modelled as (multiple) regression.However for modelling convenience, the problemis typically simplified to classification by first pre-partitioning the regions into discrete sub-regions us-ing either known city locations (Han et al, 2012;Rout et al, 2013) or a k-d tree partitioning (Roller etal., 2012; Wing and Baldridge, 2014).
In the k-d treemethods, the resulting discrete regions are treated ei-ther as a flat list (as we do here) or a nested hierarchy.13622.1 Text-based GeolocationText-based approaches assume that language in so-cial media is geographically biased, which is clearlyevident for regions speaking different languages(Han et al, 2014), but is also reflected in regionaldialects and the use of region specific terminology.Text based models have predominantly used bag ofwords features to learn per-region classifiers (Rolleret al, 2012; Wing and Baldridge, 2014), includingfeature selection for location-indicative terms (Hanet al, 2012).Topic models have also been applied to modelgeospatial text usage (Eisenstein et al, 2010; Ahmedet al, 2013), by associating latent topics with lo-cations.
This has a benefit of allowing for predic-tion over continuous space, i.e., without the need torender the problem as classification.
On the otherhand, these methods have high algorithmic com-plexity and their generative formulation is unlikelyto rival the performance of discriminative methodson large datasets.2.2 Network-based GeolocationAlthough online social networking sites allowfor global interaction, users tend to befriend andinteract with many of the same people online asthey do off-line (Rout et al, 2013).
Network-basedmethods exploit this property to infer the locationof users from the locations of their friends (Jurgens,2013; Rout et al, 2013).
This relies on someform of friendship graph, through which locationinformation can be propagated, e.g., using labelpropagation (Jurgens, 2013; Talukdar and Crammer,2009).
A significant caveat regarding the generalityof these techniques is that friendship graphs areoften not accessible, e.g., secured from the public(Facebook) or hidden behind a heavily rate-limitedAPI (Twitter).While the raw accuracies reported for network-based methods (e.g., Jurgens (2013) and Rout etal.
(2013)) are generally higher than those reportedfor text-based methods (e.g., Wing and Baldridge(2014) and Han et al (2014)), they have been eval-uated over different datasets and spatial representa-tions, making direct comparison uninformative.
Partof our contribution in this paper is direct compar-ison between the respective methods over standarddatasets.
In this, we propose both text- and network-based methods, and show that they achieve state-of-the-art results on three pre-existing Twitter geoloca-tion corpora.
We also propose a new hybrid methodincorporating both textual and network information,which also improves over the state-of-the-art, andoutperforms the text-only or network-only methodsover two of the three datasets.3 DataWe evaluate on three Twitter corpora, each of whichuses geotagged tweets to derive a geolocation foreach user.
Each user is represented by the concate-nation of their tweets, and is assumed to come froma single location.GEOTEXT: around 380K tweets from 9.5K usersbased in contiguous USA, of which 1895 isheld out for development and testing (Eisen-stein et al, 2010); the location of each user isset to the GPS coordinates of their first tweet.TWITTER-US: around 39M tweets from 450Kusers based in the contiguous USA.
10K usersare held out for each of development and test-ing (Roller et al, 2012); again users?
locationsare taken from their first tweet.TWITTER-WORLD: around 12M English tweetsfrom 1.4M users based around the world, ofwhich 10K users are held out for each of de-velopment and testing (Han et al, 2012); usersare geotagged with the centre of the closest cityto their tweets.In each case, we use the established training, de-velopment and testing partitions, and follow Chenget al (2010) and Eisenstein et al (2010) in evaluat-ing based on: (1) accuracy at 161km (?Acc@161?
);(2) mean error distance, in kilometres (?Mean?
); and(3) median error distance, in kilometres (?Median?
).4 Methods4.1 Text-based ClassificationOur baseline method for text based geolocation isbased on Wing and Baldridge (2014), who formulatethe geolocation problem as classification using k-d1363trees.
In summary, their approach first discretises thecontinuous space of geographical coordinates usinga k-d tree such that each sub-region (leaf) has simi-lar numbers of users.
This results in many small re-gions for areas of high population density and fewerlarger regions for country areas with low popula-tion density.
Next, they use these regions as classlabels to train a logistic regression model (?LR?
).Our work is also subject to a sparse l1regularisa-tion penalty (Tibshirani, 1996).
In their work, Wingand Baldridge (2014) showed that hierarchical lo-gistic regression with a beam search achieves higherresults than logistic regression over a flat label set,but in this research, we use a flat representation, andleave experiments with hierarchical classification tofuture work.For our experiments, the number of users in eachregion was selected from {300, 600, 900, 1200} tooptimise median error distance on the developmentset, resulting in values of 300, 600 and 600 for GEO-TEXT, TWITTER-US and TWITTER-WORLD, re-spectively.
The l1regularisation coefficient was alsooptimised in the same manner.As features, we used a bag of unigrams (overboth words and @-mentions) and removed all fea-tures that occurred in fewer than 10 documents,following Wing and Baldridge (2014).
The fea-tures for each user were weighted using tf-idf, fol-lowed by per-user l2normalisation.
The normali-sation is particularly important because our ?docu-ments?
are formed from all the tweets of each user,which vary significantly in size between users; fur-thermore, this adjusts for differing degrees of lexicalvariation (Lee, 1995).
The number of features wasalmost 10K for GEOTEXT and about 2.5M for theother two corpora.
For evaluation we use the medianof all training locations in the sub-region predictedby the classifier, from which we measure the erroragainst a test user?s gold standard location.4.2 Network-based Label PropagationNext, we consider the approach of Jurgens (2013)who used label propagation (?LP?
; Zhu and Ghahra-mani (2002)) to infer user locations using so-cial network structure.
Jurgens (2013) defined anundirected network from interactions among Twit-ter users based on @-mentions in their tweets, amechanism typically used for conversations betweenGEOTEXT TWITTER-US TWITTER-WORLDUser mentions 109K 3.63M 16.8MDisconnected23.5% 27.7% 2.36%test users:Table 1: The graph size and proportion of test users dis-connected from training users for each dataset.friends.
Consequently these links often correspondto offline friendships, and accordingly the networkwill exhibit a high degree of location homophily.The network is constructed by defining as nodes allusers in a dataset (train and test), as well as otherexternal users mentioned in their tweets.
Unlike Jur-gens (2013) who only created edges when both usersmentioned one another, we created edges if eitheruser mentioned the other.
For the three datasets usedin our experiments, bi-directional mentions were toorare to be useful, and we thus used the (weaker)uni-directional mentions as undirected edges in-stead.
The edges between users are undirected andweighted by the number of @-mentions in tweets byeither user.1The mention network statistics for each of ourdatasets is shown in Table 1.2Following Jurgens(2013), we ran the label propagation algorithm toupdate the location of each non-training node to theweighted median of its neighbours.
This processcontinues iteratively until convergence, which oc-curred at or before 10 iterations.4.3 A Hybrid MethodUnfortunately many test users are not transitivelyconnected to any training node (see Table 1), mean-ing that LP fails to assign them any location.
Thiscan happen when users don?t use @-mentions, orwhen a set of nodes constitutes a disconnected com-ponent of the graph.In order to alleviate this problem, we use the textfor each test user in order to estimate their location,which is then used as an initial estimation during la-bel propagation.
In this hybrid approach, we first1As our datasets don?t have tweets for external users, thesenodes do not contribute to the weight of their incident edges.2Note that @-mentions were removed in the publishedTWITTER-US and TWITTER-WORLD datasets.
To recoverthese we rebuilt the corpora from the Twitter archive.1364GEOTEXT TWITTER-US TWITTER-WORLDAcc@161 Mean Median Acc@161 Mean Median Acc@161 Mean MedianLR (text-based) 38.4 880.6 397.0 50.1 686.7 159.2 63.8 866.5 19.9LP (network-based) 45.1 676.2 255.7 37.4 747.8 431.5 56.2 1026.5 79.8LP-LR (hybrid) 50.2 653.9 151.2 50.2 620.0 157.1 59.2 903.6 53.7Wing and Baldridge (2014) (uniform) ?
?
?
49.2 703.6 170.5 32.7 1714.6 490.0Wing and Baldridge (2014) (k-d) ?
?
?
48.0 686.6 191.4 31.3 1669.6 509.1Han et al (2012) ?
?
?
45.0 814 260 24.1 1953 646Ahmed et al (2013) ???
???
298 ?
?
?
?
?
?Table 2: Geolocation accuracy over the three Twitter corpora comparing Logistic Regression (LR), Label Propagation(LP) and LP over LR initialisation (LP-LR) with the state-of-the-art methods for the respective datasets (???
signifiesthat no results were published for the given dataset, and ?????
signifies that no results were reported for the givenmetric).estimate the location for each test node using theLR classifier described above, before running labelpropagation over the mention graph.
This iterativelyadjusts the locations based on both the known train-ing users and guessed test users, while simultane-ously inferring locations for the external users.
Insuch a way, the inferred locations of test users willbetter match neighbouring users in their sub-graph,or in the case of disconnected nodes, will retain theirinitial classification estimate.5 ResultsTable 2 shows the performance of the three methodsover the test set for the three datasets.
The results arealso compared with the state of the art for TWITTER-US and TWITTER-WORLD (Wing and Baldridge,2014), and GEOTEXT (Ahmed et al, 2013).Our methods achieve a sizeable improvementover the previous state of the art for all threedatasets.
LP-LR performs best over GEOTEXTand TWITTER-US, while LR performs best overTWITTER-WORLD; the reduction in median errordistance over the state of the art ranges from around40% to over 95%.
Even for TWITTER-WORLD, theresults for LP-LR are substantially better than thebest-published results for that dataset.Comparing LR and LP, no strong conclusion canbe drawn ?
the text-based LP actually outperformsthe network-based LR for two of the three datasets,but equally, the combination of the two (LP-LR)performs better than either component method overtwo of the three datasets.
For the third (TWITTER-WORLD), LR outperforms LP-LR due to a combi-nation of factors.
First, unlike the other two datasets,the label set is pre-discretised (everything is aggre-gated at the city level), meaning that LP and LRuse the same label set.3This annuls the represen-tational advantage that LP has in the case of theother two datasets, in being able to capture a morefine-grained label set (i.e., all locations associatedwith training users).
Second, there are substantiallyfewer disconnected test users in TWITTER-WORLD(see Table 1), meaning that the results for the hybridLP-LR method are dominated by the empirically-inferior LP.Although LR is similar to Wing and Baldridge(2014), we achieved large improvements over theirreported results.
This might be due to: (a) our useof @-mention features; (b) l1regularisation, whichis essential to preventing overfitting for large featuresets; or (c) our use of l2normalisation of rows inthe design matrix, which we found reduced errorsby about 20% on GEOTEXT, in keeping with resultsfrom text categorisation (Lee, 1995).
Preliminaryexperiments also showed that lowering the term fre-quency threshold from 10 can further improve theLR results on all three datasets.LP requires few hyper-parameters and is rela-tively robust.
It converged on all datasets in fewerthan 10 iterations, and geolocates not only the testusers but all nodes in the mention graph.
Anotheradvantage of LP over LR is the relatively modestamount of memory and processing power it requires.3For consistency, we learn a k-d tree for TWITTER-WORLDand use the merged representation for LR, but the k-d treelargely preserves the pre-existing city boundaries.13656 ConclusionWe proposed a series of approaches to social me-dia user geolocation based on: (1) text-based analy-sis using logistic regression with regularisation; (2)network-based analysis using label propagation; and(3) a hybrid method based on network-based labelpropagation, and back-off to text-based analysis fordisconnected users.
We achieve state-of-the-art re-sults over three pre-existing Twitter datasets, andfind that, overall, the hybrid method is superior tothe two component methods.The LP-LR method isa hybrid approach that uses the LR predictions as pri-ors.
It is not simply a backoff from network informa-tion to textual information in the sense that it propa-gates the LR geolocations through the network.
Thatis, if a test node is disconnected from the trainingnodes but still has connections to other test nodes,the geolocation of the node is adjusted and propa-gated through the network.
It is possible to add extranodes to the graph after applying the algorithm andto geolocate only these nodes efficiently, althoughthis approach is potentially less accurate than infer-encing over the full graph from scratch.Label propagation algorithms such as ModifiedAdsorption (Talukdar and Crammer, 2009) allow fordifferent levels of influence between prior/known la-bels and propagated label distributions.
These algo-rithms require a discretised output space for labelpropagation, while LP can work directly on contin-uous data.
We leave label propagation over discri-tised output and allowing different influence levelsbetween prior and propagated label distributions tofuture work.There is no clear consensus on whether text- ornetwork-based methods are empirically superior atthe user geolocation task.
Our results show that thenetwork-based method (LP) is more robust than thetext-based (LR) method as it requires a smaller num-ber of hyper-parameters, uses less memory and com-puting resources, converges much faster and geolo-cates not only test users but all mentioned users.
Thedrawback of LP is that it fails to geolocate discon-nected test users.
So for connected nodes ?
the ma-jority of test nodes in all our datasets ?
LP is morerobust than LR.
Text-based methods are very sen-sitive to the regularisation settings and the types oftextual features.
That said, with thorough param-eter tuning, they might outperform network-basedmethod in terms of accuracy.In future work, we hope to look at different typesof network information for label propagation, moreprecise propagation methods to deal with non-localinteractions, and also efficient ways of utilising bothtextual and network information in a joint model.AcknowledgementsWe thank the anonymous reviewers for their insight-ful comments and valuable suggestions.
This workwas funded in part by the Australian Research Coun-cil.ReferencesAmr Ahmed, Liangjie Hong, and Alexander J Smola.2013.
Hierarchical geographical modeling of user lo-cations from social media posts.
In Proceedings of the22nd International Conference on World Wide Web,pages 25?36.Einat Amitay, Nadav Har?El, Ron Sivan, and Aya Soffer.2004.
Web-a-where: geotagging web content.
In Pro-ceedings of the 27th Annual International ACM SIGIRConference on Research and Development in Informa-tion Retrieval, pages 273?280.Zhiyuan Cheng, James Caverlee, and Kyumin Lee.
2010.You are where you tweet: a content-based approachto geo-locating Twitter users.
In Proceedings of the19th ACM International Conference on Informationand Knowledge Management, pages 759?768.Paul Earle, Michelle Guy, Richard Buckmaster, Chris Os-trum, Scott Horvath, and Amy Vaughan.
2010.
OMGearthquake!
can Twitter improve earthquake response?Seismological Research Letters, 81(2):246?251.Jacob Eisenstein, Brendan O?Connor, Noah A Smith, andEric P Xing.
2010.
A latent variable model for geo-graphic lexical variation.
In Proceedings of the 2010Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Lan-guage Processing, pages 1277?1287.Bo Han, Timothy Baldwin, and Paul Cook.
2012.
Geolo-cation prediction in social media data by finding loca-tion indicative words.
Proceedings of COLING 2012:Technical Papers, pages 1045?1062.Bo Han, Paul Cook, and Timothy Baldwin.
2014.
Text-based Twitter user geolocation prediction.
Journal ofArtificial Intelligence Research (JAIR), 49:451?500.David Jurgens.
2013.
That?s what friends are for: In-ferring location in online social media platforms basedon social relationships.
In Proceedings of the 7th In-ternational Conference on Weblogs and Social Media(ICWSM 2013), pages 273?282.1366Joon Ho Lee.
1995.
Combining multiple evidence fromdifferent properties of weighting schemes.
In Pro-ceedings of the 18th Annual International ACM SIGIRConference on Research and Development in Informa-tion Retrieval, pages 180?188.Anastasios Noulas, Salvatore Scellato, Neal Lathia, andCecilia Mascolo.
2012.
A random walk around thecity: New venue recommendation in location-basedsocial networks.
In Privacy, Security, Risk and Trust(PASSAT), 2012 International Conference on and 2012International Confernece on Social Computing (So-cialCom), pages 144?153.Stephen Roller, Michael Speriosu, Sarat Rallapalli, Ben-jamin Wing, and Jason Baldridge.
2012.
Super-vised text-based geolocation using language modelson an adaptive grid.
In Proceedings of the 2012 JointConference on Empirical Methods in Natural Lan-guage Processing and Computational Natural Lan-guage Learning, pages 1500?1510.Dominic Rout, Kalina Bontcheva, Daniel Preot?iuc-Pietro, and Trevor Cohn.
2013.
Where?s @wally?
:a classification approach to geolocating users based ontheir social ties.
In Proceedings of the 24th ACM Con-ference on Hypertext and Social Media, pages 11?20.Partha Pratim Talukdar and Koby Crammer.
2009.
Newregularized algorithms for transductive learning.
InProceedings of the European Conference on MachineLearning (ECML-PKDD) 2009, pages 442?457.Robert Tibshirani.
1996.
Regression shrinkage and se-lection via the lasso.
Journal of the Royal StatisticalSociety.
Series B (Methodological), pages 267?288.Benjamin P Wing and Jason Baldridge.
2014.
Hierar-chical discriminative classification for text-based ge-olocation.
In Proceedings of the 2014 Conference onEmpirical Methods in Natural Language Processing(EMNLP 2014).Xiaojin Zhu and Zoubin Ghahramani.
2002.
Learn-ing from labeled and unlabeled data with label prop-agation.
Technical report, Technical Report CMU-CALD-02-107, Carnegie Mellon University.1367
