Human Language Technologies: The 2015 Annual Conference of the North American Chapter of the ACL, pages 409?419,Denver, Colorado, May 31 ?
June 5, 2015.c?2015 Association for Computational LinguisticsExtracting Human Temporal Orientation from Facebook LanguageH.
Andrew Schwartz,1,4Gregory J. Park,2Maarten Sap,2Evan Weingarten3, Johannes Eichstaedt,2Margaret L. Kern,5David Stillwell,6Michal Kosinski,7Jonah Berger,3Martin Seligman,2Lyle H. Ungar11Computer & Information Science,2Psychology,3Wharton, University of Pennsylvania4Computer Science, Stony Brook University5Graduate School of Education, University of Melbourne6Psychometrics Centre, Cambridge University7Graduate School of Business, Stanford Universityhansens@seas.upenn.edu, gregpark@sas.upenn.eduAbstractPeople vary widely in their temporalorientation?how often they emphasize thepast, present, and future?and this affects theirfinances, health, and happiness.
Traditionally,temporal orientation has been assessed byself-report questionnaires.
In this paper, wedevelop a novel behavior-based assessmentusing human language on Facebook.
We firstcreate a past, present, and future messageclassifier, engineering features and evaluatinga variety of classification techniques.
Ourmessage classifier achieves an accuracy of71.8%, compared with 52.8% from the mostfrequent class and 58.6% from a model basedentirely on time expression features.
Wequantify a users?
overall temporal orientationbased on their distribution of messages andvalidate it against known human correlates:conscientiousness, age, and gender.
Wethen explore social scientific questions,finding novel associations with the factorsopenness to experience, satisfaction with life,depression, IQ, and one?s number of friends.Further, demonstrating how one can trackorientation over time, we find differences infuture orientation around birthdays.1 IntroductionHow much one emphasizes the past, present, or fu-ture is predictive of many human factors such as oc-cupational and educational success, engagement inrisky behavior, financial stability, depression, andhealth (Boyd and Zimbardo, 2005; Zimbardo andBoyd, 1999).
However, studies on the human ex-perience of time are filled with diverse measurementmethods (Strathman and Joireman, 2005), mostly in-volving questionnaires which are expensive to ad-minister multiple times or at scale and can be subjectto confounds when compared to other questionnairebased assessments.Text mining and language processing techniquescan provide a more objective and scalable measure-ment of temporal orientation, one?s tendency to em-phasize the past, present, or future.
Whereas mostprior computational linguistics and text mining tem-poral studies have focused on events, there has beena lack of work looking at the temporal orientationof people.
Such measures, which were not practicalbefore the growth of social media, can open manyavenues of large-scale psychological discovery intothe consequences of temporal orientation and yieldapplications such as targeted marketing, loan repay-ment forecasting, understanding economic patterns,or even quantified self-help tools to encourage morefuture-mindedness.In this paper, we develop a temporal orienta-tion measure based on language in social media.The measure uses a message-level classifier of past,present, and future, aggregated over users to createuser-level assessments.
We evaluate the message-level classifier over hand annotated data and the de-rived user-level model against known human cor-relates of temporal orientation: conscientiousness,age, and gender.
To the best of our knowledge, thisrepresents the first paper to study a language-basedmeasure of user-level temporal-orientation.Our contributions include: (a) the introduction ofthe task of extracting human temporal orientationfrom their language use, (b) methodological evalu-ation and feature engineering for the task, and (c)novel social scientific applications and findings.
To-409ward (a) and (b), we find that achieving the task isnon-trivial as we build on and diverge from relatedcomputational linguistics tasks (e.g.
time expressionrecognition) and utilize a classifier capturing non-linear relationships and interactions.
Towards (c),we show how our measure usefully informs psycho-logical theory by relating our human assessments toother psychological variables at a scale not easily ex-plored, and by tracking changes in temporal orienta-tion over time.2 BackgroundResearchers and philosophers have long been inter-ested in the subjective experience of time: how in-dividuals relate to their past, are mindful of theirpresent, and envision their futures (James, 1890;Lewin, 1942).
Similarly, computational studieshave a rich history on extracting temporal relation-ships beginning decades ago (Allen, 1983).
Here,we provide some background on temporal orien-tation?s broader relevance, on computational tech-niques used to extract temporal information fromtext, and on related user-level prediction tasks.Temporal orientation and its correlates.
Stud-ies on the human subjective experience of time arefilled with diverse measurement methods, varying intheir emphasis on cognitive, affective, and/or moti-vational aspects.1Decisions are influenced by thepast, present, and mental simulations of possible fu-tures (Seligman et al, 2013).One widely studied aspect of subjective time istemporal orientation, or an individual?s tendency tohabitually emphasize past, present, or future tem-poral frames (Boyd and Zimbardo, 2005).
Under-standing how and why individuals differ in theirtemporal orientation, can, for example suggest howthey can achieve favorable outcomes in areas of lifethat require substantial long-term planning, includ-ing education, higher status occupations, and phys-ical health (Zimbardo and Boyd, 1999; Boyd andZimbardo, 2005; Steinberg et al, 2009).Consistent links have been established betweentemporal orientation and a psychological factor as-sociated with planning, health, and risky behav-1For a review, see Strathman et al, 2005.iors: the personality trait of conscientiousness.Conscientious individuals are characterized as self-disciplined, orderly, planful, and reliable (Roberts etal., 2013).
Past research has established that highlyconscientious people exhibit more future- and lesspresent-oriented (Zimbardo and Boyd, 1999; Web-ley and Nyhus, 2006; Adams and Nettle, 2009).
Weuse a measure of conscientiousness from the well-established ?Big-five?
or Five Factor Model of per-sonality (Goldberg, 1990; McCrae and John, 1992).The other four factors, extraversion (e.g.
active, out-going, talkative), agreeableness (e.g.
kind, trusting,generous), neuroticism (e.g.
touchy, anxious, de-pressive), and openness (e.g.
intellectual, artistic,insightful), have been found to have little connec-tion with temporal orientation (Zimbardo and Boyd,1999).Other studies have established consistent links be-tween temporal orientation and demographic char-acteristics.
In particular, as one ages they think lessabout the immediate present and more about the fu-ture (Friedman, 2000; Nurmi, 2005; Steinberg et al,2009), and females tend to think a bit more about thefuture than males (Keough et al, 1999).
However,detailed age trends are not well understood, withstudies mostly focusing on adolescents or college-aged students.For many other important outcomes, such as hap-piness or well-being, past research leaves us un-clear as to the relationship with temporal orienta-tion.
Some suggest future-oriented individuals arehappier as they engage in more provident behav-iors such as saving money and establishing health-ier habit (Desmyter and De Raedt, 2012; Diener etal., 2013).
This is supported by the connection be-tween future orientation and less depression (Zim-bardo and Boyd, 1999).
However, others argue thatemphasis on the future inhibits ones ability to re-flect wisely on the past and savor present experi-ences (Boniwell et al, 2010).
Our study exploresthis relationship at an unprecedented scale, utilizingthe Satisfaction with Life Scale (Diener et al, 1985)and the Center for Epidemiologic Studies Depres-sion Scale, the CES-D (Radloff, 1977).
We also lookat previously unexplored variables, IQ and numberof friends, for which links with temporal orientationseem plausible (e.g.
one might suspect it is smart tothink about the future, or wonder if one?s reflection410on the past is related to their popularity as measureby number of friends).Related work.
Studying temporal language is byno means new to the field of computational linguis-tics (or NLP).
Most recently, time annotation hasgained greater interest with a successive sequenceof three SemEval tasks (TempEval-1, -2 and -3).The SemEval competitions have provided datasets that facilitate the comparison of different meth-ods for evaluating time expressions, events, and tem-poral relations (Verhagen et al, 2007; Verhagen etal., 2010; UzZaman et al, 2013).
Such researchon temporal text analysis generally focuses on de-termining when events start and end or how they re-late temporally to each other; specific goals includeinformation extraction of time-dependent facts fromnews media (Ling and Weld, 2010; Talukdar et al,2012), or extracting personal histories in social me-dia (Wen et al, 2013).
In contrast, our goal is to findthe temporal orientation of people.Of the numerous TempEval tasks, we build uponthose which identify time expressions and resolvetheir expressed time and date relative to the timeof writing (e.g.
the time expression ?yesterday?
in adocument written on January 15, 2014 is resolvedas January 14, 2014).
Many methods have beenused, ranging from hand-crafting rules to machinelearning models.
Unlike other areas of natural lan-guage processing where stochastic techniques dom-inate, rule-based systems have been quite compet-itive in time expressions recognition, especially inless domain dependent settings or for relaxed match-ing tasks (UzZaman et al, 2013).A number of useful toolkits have been producedfor temporal text analysis (Verhagen et al, 2005;Ling and Weld, 2010; Chang and Manning, 2012).In this work, we use Stanford University?s rule-based temporal tagger, SUTime, which geve accu-racy in line with the state-of-the-art systems at iden-tifying time expressions at TempEval (Chang andManning, 2012).2SUTime, built on top of Stan-ford?s part-of-speech and named entity taggers, la-2Our goals differ slightly from the TempEval accuracy cri-teria.
For example, when SUTime fails to distinguish ?one anda half weeks?
from ?one week?, it does not affect our per-formance.
However, other errors, such as confusing the verb?march?
with the month March will harm our accuracy.bels times, durations, intervals, and relative timescompared to the time at which the document waswritten.Our work fits a growing tradition of computa-tional work to better understand people based ontheir online behavior.
Much of this type of workuses human properties to better perform traditionalcomputational linguistics tasks, while others focusparticularly on predicting user attributes.
User net-work information has been used for tweet summa-rization or filtering (Panigrahy et al, 2012; Chang etal., 2013; Feng and Wang, 2013).Others utilize psychological knowledge aboutpeople, such as exploiting the human tendency toreport more positive extreme feelings than negativein order to improve on sentiment analysis (Guerraet al, 2014).
Toward attribute prediction, a largeproportion of works have focused on demograph-ics (Argamon et al, 2009; Goswami et al, 2009;Burger et al, 2011; Al Zamal et al, 2012; Bergsmaet al, 2013; Sap et al, 2014).
and personality pre-diction (Mairesse et al, 2007; Iacobelli et al, 2011;Schwartz et al, 2013; Park et al, 2015).Human temporal orientation, as we study it here,differs from previous studies of user attribute pre-diction in that temporal orientation calls for consid-eration of additional language features (some moresophisticated, such as time expressions), and explo-ration of classification techniques (e.g.
that can cap-ture non-linear relationships or interactions).
Wealso add multidisciplinary applications, showing notjust how accurately our models predict, but alsostudying how temporal orientation relates to otherfactors, for example, by weighing in on conflictingliterature as to whether people who are more future-oriented are more satisfied with their life.3 MethodWe develop a methodology for measuring a givensocial media user?s temporal orientation.
First, webuild a classifier to label whether a message dis-cusses the past, present, or future, and then we quan-tify users?
temporal orientation as the percentage oftheir messages in each category.We train a variety of supervised classifiers and ex-plore many features in order to label the temporal411class of a social media message.
Because this taskis new, it is not clear what classification technique isideal (for example, it is possible that present orienta-tion is best captured with non-linear relationships),so we explore four techniques:logR: (logistic regression).
We use regularized lo-gistic regression (equivalent to maximum entropy)(Fan et al, 2008; Bishop, 2006).
From cross-validation over the training data, we chose L1 pe-nalization (?||?||1).lSVC, rSVC: (support vector classification).Compared to logR, support vector machines offernon-linear kernel functions (Cortes and Vapnik,1995), and large-margin optimization for class split.We consider both a linear kernel (lSVC) and a radialbasis function kernel (rSVC).
From cross-validationover the training data, we chose L1 penalization forlSVC and L2 (?||?||2) for rSVC.ERTs: (forest of extremely randomized trees).This technique uses an ensemble of decision treesin which both the feature and cut-point are chosen ateach node from a randomly generated set of possi-ble options (Geurts et al, 2006).
Such an approachcan handle both interactions and non-linear relation-ships, at the expense of a larger search space.
Fromcross-validation over our training data, we set thefollowing algorithm parameters: we build 1,000 de-cision trees, using the Gini impurity measure whenchoosing splits (as opposed to entropy), and se-lecting each node?s feature threshold from amongsquare-root of the total features.All classifications algorithms were implementedusing the scikit-learn toolkit (Pedregosa et al,2011).
Multi-classication over binary classifiers(logR, lSVC, rSVC) was achieved using a series ofone-v-rest classifiers.We explore five language-based features:ngrams: 1 to 3 token sequences.
Messagesare tokenized using the happierfuntokenizing tool3which captures common social media tokens suchas emoticons, hashtags, and user handles.
Features3available here:wwbp.org/public data/happierfuntokenizing.zipare encoded simply as binary indicators for whetherthe ngram appears in the message.time exs: The mean difference between the re-solved date-time of all time expressions and thedate-time in which the message was posted.
Timeexpressions are labeled via Stanford?s SUTime an-notator (Chang and Manning, 2012), discussed pre-viously.
Specific features recorded include the tem-poral difference itself (e.g.
-2.5 for ?two and halfdays ago?
), its base 2 log (log(1 + value)), its ab-solute value, total number of time expressions, andbinary variables indicating if any past, present, or fu-ture expressions appear in the text.
We also includebinary features for each of the named-entity timetags for the time expression provided by SUTime(e.g.
?future ref?, ?present ref?, ?next immediate?
).POS tags: The relative frequency of each part-of-speech tag.
Tagging is done via Stanford?s part-of-speech tagger (Toutanova et al, 2003).
Stanford?stagger does not have explicit social media tags, butwe are most interested in capturing tense which itdoes well.4Also, it is already being used as partof SUTime.
Each part-of-speech tag is encodedas the frequency of tag usage (freq(tag,msg)) di-vided by the total number of tokens in the message(tokensmsg):p(tag|msg) =freq(tag,msg)|tokensmsg|lexica: The relative frequency of categories, based onthe Linguistic Inquiry and Word Count (LIWC) dictionary(Pennebaker et al, 2007).
We use the 2007 version ofLIWC which includes 64 categories of psychologically-relevant language, including past, present, and futureverb categories.
The features are encoded as the fre-quency with which a word from a category (cat) appearedin the message (msg) divided by the total tokens in themessage (tokensmsg):p(cat|msg) =?token?catfreq(token,msg)|tokensmsg|4The Stanford Tagger has well documented errors on mi-croblog text (Derczynski et al, 2013).
However, we manuallyevaluated 49 verbs across 20 randomly selected statuses, andall verb tenses were correctly tagged while 4 non-verbs wereincorrectly tagged as base-form verbs.412Status R1 R2 R3 Maj:) today was actually pretty good pa pa pa pais listening to The Sad Cafe by The Eagles!
pr pr pr prconsidering checking out base jumping and parkour some time in the future XP fu fu fu fuI just watched Oprah and am posting what it was about.
pa pr pa pareally wanted a snow day, but probably not going to get one tomorrow.
now homework.
pr fu fu fuAnother day of great restraint.
pa pa pr paTable 1: Examples of statuses annotated for temporal classes: past (pa), present/none (pr), and future (fu).
R1, R2, R3:judgements from each rater; Maj: choice from majority voting.
The bottom three examples illustrate difficult cases.lengths: mean size of 1grams and number of tokens inthe post.We found it useful to use a modest variety of featuretypes and to build on existing work that labels time ex-pressions.
While one might expect time expression fea-tures to be extremely valuable for this task, we found only15% of Facebook messages contain them, even thoughmany more communicate a focus on the past or futurethrough other means (e.g.
tense or semantic information).All features were limited to those mentioned in at least0.05% of messages.At the user-level, we produce three categoriesof temporal orientation, defined simply as the pro-portion of a user?s total messages (msgs(user)all)classified in the given temporal category (tc ?
{past, present, future}):orientationtc(user) =|msgstc(user)||msgsall(user)|We generate three separate variables (summing to one),rather than a single variable temporal index, in order tocapture non-linear relationships (i.e., the potential for thepresent to correlate in the opposite direction of both thepast and future).
All of our user analyses are based on100 randomly selected messages from each user.4 Data collection and labelingWe use three social media datasets: the training set, testset, and user set.
The training set consists of 4,302 Twit-ter and Facebook annotated messages.
The test set is arandom subset of 500 annotated Facebook messages, rep-resentative of messages we will apply our model.
Finally,the user set contains 531,893 messages from Facebookusers with known age, gender, personality, satisfactionwith life, depression, IQ and number of Facebook friends.We derived the test set from the user set in order to estab-lish accuracies of our model over the application domain.Training set.
Our training data consists of both Face-book and Twitter messages.
For Facebook, 3,000 statusupdates, sent between March 2009 and October 2011,were randomly sampled from users of the MyPersonal-ity application (Kosinski and Stillwell, 2012; Quercia etal., 2012), who also provided their age and gender.
ForTwitter, 3,000 messages were sampled from the 1% ran-dom stream provided by Twitter during September 2012.Three annotators, undergraduate students at the Uni-versity of Pennsylvania, independently labeled the tem-poral orientation of each message.
Messages were la-beled in units of days past or future (adapted from Liber-man et al (2007)).
For example, -7 would be a week ago,?1/24would be an hour ago, 0 would be now (present),and 365 would be a year from now.
Inter-annotator agree-ment, as the intraclass correlation coefficient (Shrout andFleiss, 1979), was 0.85.
Ratings were averaged into asingle ?time from now?
index.
For the purposes of thisstudy we then discretized the data into past (mean rating< 0), present (mean rating = 0), or future (mean rating> 0).
Annotation of the 6,000 messages took approxi-mately 150 human hours.When rating, messages were marked ?NA?
when theyappeared to come from a bot or were composed of songlyrics or quotations.
(Removing unoriginal content wasdesired for the consumer behavior research for which themessages were first labeled.)
For our purposes, in orderto maximize the training set size, we only removed mes-sages when all three raters chose ?NA?, such that therewas no average rating available for the message.
The re-sulting final training set consisted of 4,302 total messages(2,009 tweets; 2,293 Facebook status updates).
Since ourapplication of the data does not include a manual filteringof messages, we created a separate message test set withno filtering in order to accurately evaluate our classifierin the application?s setting (below).Test set.
Evaluating our classifiers over our annotatedtraining set would not yield an accurate assessment ofthe performance when applied to the user set (describednext).
Therefore, we randomly selected 500 statuses fromthe user set as our message test set.5Statuses exclude5While we desired a large training set, the test set onlyneeded to be large enough to evaluate differences in accuracy.413mfc logR lSVC rSVC ERTs msgsAccuracy .528 .686 .708 .684 .718 500past (p, r, f1) (.00, .00, .00) (.56, .68, .62) (.63, .67, .65) (.63, .56, .59) (.73, .67, .71) 131present (p, r, f1) (.53, 1.0, .69) (.80, .74, .77) (.78, .78, .78) (.70, .85, .77) (.74, .84, .79) 264future (p, r, f1) (.00, .00, .00) (.60, .56, .58) (.61, .56, .58) (.69, .43, .53) (.60, .47, .53) 105Table 2: Accuracy (percentage classified correct) message classifiers based on different learning algorithms (identifiedin section 3).
Temporal class results are broken down by precision (p), recall (r), and f1 score for each of past (pa),present (pr), and future (fu).
Number of messages (msgs) are listed on the far right.
The most frequent class baseline(mfc) indicates accuracy if only predicting the present class.reposts of others?
statuses and comments on other peo-ple?s posts, and we found only 2 of the 500 random mes-sages were made by apps (users still choose whether ornot to post these to their walls).
Three annotators in-dependently classified each status message as predom-inantly talking about the past, present, or future.
Theoverall rating for each message was determined by a ma-jority vote (when there was a tie: i.e., one of each class,present was used).
Agreement among these raters, cal-culated as the intraclass correlation coefficient, was 0.83.One might suggest some messages do not have a tempo-ral class (e.g.
does ?I like Selena Gomez?
have a predom-inant temporal class?
).6Such messages would be markedas ?present?
in our annotation scheme.
Thus, one mightconsider our present class to encompass both a presentand ?non-temporal?
class.User set.
Human-level data is used to evaluate ourmodel toward understanding the relationship between hu-man temporal orientation and individual characteristics(e.g.
demographics, personality).
Thus, this data spansboth message and user levels, from consenting partic-ipants, in the MyPersonality Facebook study (Kosinskiand Stillwell, 2012).We used five subsets of the MyPersonality data in or-der to capture various psychological and behavioral vari-ables: user subset 1: gender, age, and personality; usersubset 2: satisfaction with life, user subset 3: depression,user subset 4: IQ, and user subset 5: number of friends.For our first subset, gender, age, and personality variablesare well represented in the dataset, so we created a strat-ified sample over 1,520 users.
We sampled equal propor-tions of males and females across 4-year age bins from13 to 60 (i.e., ages [13,16], [17,20], .
.
.
,[57, 60]), whichprovides gender- and age-controlled correlations for eachpersonality factor (openness, conscientiousness, extraver-sion, agreeableness, and neuroticism).Other variables are more limited.
Thus, instead of cre-6We attempted to include a non-temporal class and founddisagreement.
Some argue that every message has a temporalclass (e.g.
?I like Selena Gomez?
is truly signalling present).ating stratified samples, these three subsets include usersfor whom gender and age information is also available:1,565 in the case of satisfaction with life, 268 for theCES-D depression scale, 898 for IQ and, 1,000 in thecase of number of friends.
The gender and age data isthen included as covariates in regression analyses to findthe relationship between these variables and temporal ori-entation, controlled for demographics.
In all five subsetsof the user set, we randomly sample 100 messages fromeach user in order to determine their temporal orientation.Table 1 shows example status updates along with rat-ings.
As evidenced from the rater agreement, most statusupdates were fairly easy to determine.
Some messageshave explicit temporal phrases (e.g.
?in the future?)
whileothers are more subtle (e.g.
relying on verb tense: ?is lis-tening ...?).
Others, such as the bottom three examples,might reference multiple temporal classes or not includeclear verb tense and thus rely on the raters?
judgementsfor what is most dominant.5 EvaluationWe evaluate our past, present, and future message classi-fier as well as its features.
All models were trained overour training set and evaluated over the test set.Table 2 compares accuracy of various types of clas-sifiers: logistic regression (logR), linear support vectorclassifier (lSVC), support vector classifier with rbf ker-nel (rSVC), and a forest of extremely randomized trees(ERTs).
We saw best results from the ERTs classifier,suggesting some of its benefits (capturing non-linear re-lationships or interactions among features) may help thisproblem.
We also see, from the F1 scores, that all classi-fiers found the future class most difficult to predict; thiswas the smallest class and likely subject to the most biasagainst.
All classifiers performed significantly better thanthe most frequent class baseline with an error reduction of41% in the case of ERTs (p < 0.001 from paired t-test onabsolute errors).
We selected the ERTs classifier for theremaining experiments.77This trained classifier is available at: wwbp.org/data.html.414type feature type feature type featurePOS verb, past tense relativitywas POS verb, past tensecommon present verbs relativity (in, on, at, ?)
POS verb, base formlengths common present verbs tomorrowhad POS POS totime exs numof timexs lexicangrams time exs numof timexslexica lexicanumof tokens lexica ngramsngrams verbs, 3rd pers singular-Past FuturePresentTable 4: Top five most correlated features for each of the temporal classes.
?-?
indicates negative correlations; positiveotherwise.
Correlation absolute strengths ranged from Pearson r = 0.08 to 0.40.Features Accuracy Features Accuracymfc baseline .528 all features .718ngrams alone .688 w/o ngrams .672time exs alone .586 w/o time exs .708POS tags alone .614 w/o POS tags .712lexica alone .684 w/o lexica .702lengths alone .544 w/o lengths .718Table 3: Accuracy of our full past, present, future mes-sage classifier (top) and an ablation analysis of accuracieswhen removing each feature type (bottom).
The most fre-quent class baseline (mfc) indicates accuracy if only pre-dicting the present class.
The full classifier significantlyout-performed using time expressions alone (p < 0.05;bolded accuracy).We did feature ablation analyses as shown in Table3.
Every feature type produced improvement over thebaseline and, with the exception of lengths, removingany feature resulted in reduced performance (though nonestrong enough to meet significance at p < 0.05).
The lim-ited reduction implies that while each feature type maycontain temporal information, there is also substantial re-dundancy across the feature types.Results when using time-expression alone can be con-sidered another baseline, representing a model based en-tirely on previous time expression work.
A reason for thelarge advantage of using additional features is that manytemporally indicative messages did not contain any timeexpressions (instead expressing orientation through verbtense or semantics).
Indeed, we see from Table 4, whichlists the top features for each class, that time expressionfeatures were very useful when then occurred.
All featuretypes made it into these top ten lists.User-level temporal orientation is trivially defined:percentage of a given user?s messages that are classi-fied as past, present, or future oriented.
Thus, accuracyfor each proportion is directly tied to message accuracy.Still, we validate that our approach is in line with psy-chological theory (discussed in Section 2) by correlat-ing user-level temporal orientations with outcomes whoseassociations have been previously established: conscien-tiousness, age, and gender number of users; results con-trolled for age and gender.
In particular, future orienta-tion should be positively correlated with conscientious-ness, age, and being female, while present orientationshould be negatively correlated.
Our results which whichare consistent with the literature, can be seen in the tophalf of Table 5.
Among users with personality scores,we found positive correlations between future orienta-tion and seemingly future-oriented questionnaire items:?I make plans and stick to them?
(r = .16) and ?I fin-ish what I start?
(r = .12).
To the best of our knowl-edge, psychology literature has not established standardcorrelates of past orientation, so the correlation with ageand past orientation, though not surprising, is somewhatnovel.Correlations with questionnaire measures help to es-tablish convergent validity ?
i.e.
our measure is empiri-cally related to other measures in a way that is consistentwith theory about the underlying constructs.
However,self report questionnaires are often used for convenience,not necessarily because they are most valid (Paulhus andVazire, 2007).
In fact, more objective or behavior-basedmeasures in social science have been called for (Baumeis-ter et al, 2007).6 ExplorationHere we use our language-based user measure to explorebehavioral and psychological correlates of temporal ori-entation.
Figure 1 illustrates the user-level distributionsof the message classes, broken down by gender, withinthe stratified sample.
All experiments in this section ap-plied our measure over the user set.
Within users, themean proportions of past, present, and future messageswere 0.24, 0.61, and 0.15 respectively.
Among mostusers, the majority of messages were classified as present,while future-oriented messages were least frequent.We compare these temporal orientations to user per-sonality, satisfaction with life, IQ, and their number ofFacebook friends.
We use both Pearson correlation andlinear regression (OLS) to estimate relationships between415Attribute N Past Present Futurevalidationconscientiousness 1520 .02 -.08 .12age 1520 .30 -.30 .15gender 1520 .10 -.15 .14explorationopenness 1520 .05 .04 -.12extraversion 1520 -.04 .03 .00agreeableness 1520 .00 -.02 .04neuroticism 1520 -.01 -.01 .04satisfaction w/ life 1565 .00 -.05 .08depression 268 -.14 .21 -.17IQ 898 .14 -.14 .05# of friends 1000 -.15 .13 -.05Table 5: Correlations between user temporal orientationand human attributes.
The attributes conscientiousness,age, and gender are well-established in previous litera-ture to be associated with temporal orientation.
Genderis coded as 0 = male, 1 = female.
bold: p < .01 afterBenjamini-Hochberg multiple comparison correction; N:number of users; results controlled for age and gender.temporal orientation and other variables.
In our age andgender stratified sample (1520 users), we calculate Pear-son correlations between temporal orientation and age,gender, and measures of openness, conscientiousness,extraversion, agreeableness, and neuroticism.
Becausefewer users completed measures of satisfaction with life,IQ, and number of friends, we were not able to producesufficient stratified samples, so we used ordinary leastsquares linear regression to fit the standardized outcomeof interest to standardized temporal orientation also in-cluding standardized age and gender as covariates to ad-just for their effects.
The coefficient, often denoted ?, fortemporal orientation then represents the strength of therelationship, controlled for age and gender.Table 5 lists the correlation coefficients between tem-poral orientation and user attributes.
We found thestrongest effects for age, with patterns that are consistentwith the psychological literature (Steinberg et al, 2009).Figure 2 illustrates trends from age 13 to 60.
Most no-tably, present orientation decreases steadily across age;past orientation steadily increases, and future orienta-tion increases quickly throughout adolescence, slowsin early adulthood, and finally levels off in late adult-hood.
Female users were significantly more future-oriented, slightly more past-oriented, and significantlyless present-oriented than males.For personality, we found the expected patterns of cor-relations with conscientiousness, but more interestingly,pastpresentfuture womenmen0.000.010.020.030.040.050.060 .25 .50 .75 1Proportions of users' messagesDensityFigure 1: Kernel density estimates of user-level propor-tions of past, present, and future classified messages, bro-ken down by gender.
Vertical bars represent means.openness to experience was correlated with lower futureorientation (beyond conscientiousness, there was no sup-port in the literature for any of the five personality factorsto correlate with temporal orientation).
This is surprisingwhen considering openness to experience is characterizedby creativity and intellect (McCrae and John, 1992), yetIQ instead correlates with less present and more past ori-entation, suggesting future orientation characterizes a dif-ference between the two.8We found a modest yet significant positive correlationbetween future orientation and satisfaction with life, withfuture orientation associated with higher life satisfaction.On the other hand, we found a stronger negative corre-lation between future orientation and depression as wellas a positive correlation between present orientation anddepression.
As previously noted, past literature was con-flicting on the relationship between these factors, so ourstudy weighs in with a behavior-based assessment in sup-port of a future-oriented people being more satisfied inlife and less depressed.Lastly, we consider whether the use of our language-based measure of temporal orientation can track changesover time.
As a proof-of-concept, we focus on pat-terns around birthdays; excluding messages containingbirthday terms and users turning 21, we calculated thestandardized proportion of messages which were future-8One interpretation is that our classifier may be more ac-curate on messages authored by those with higher IQ (i.e.
moregrammatical sentences); however no significant difference in er-ror was found when spitting messages by the authors?
IQ, age,or gender.416pastpresentfuture?.50?.250.25.5013 20 30 40 50 60User ageStandardized Temporal OrientationFigure 2: Standardized temporal orientation of users overtheir age.
Shaded area indicates?1 standard error aroundloess smoothed estimates.oriented over two weeks before and after one?s birthday.We controlled for individual differences and date effects(e.g.
if more people happen to be born near a holiday) bystandardizing users?
future orientation over all their mes-sages and standardizing daily future orientation scoresover all messages from each day.
Figure 3 shows the pat-terns for men < 23 and ?
23, suggesting that youngermen look forward to their birthdays while older men donot (patterns were less pronounced for women).7 ConclusionsThis is, to our knowledge, the first study to automati-cally assess individual temporal orientation through lan-guage, and it constitutes one of the largest (perhaps thelargest) studies of temporal orientation.
Our message-level past, present, and future classifier achieved an ac-curacy of 71.8%, well-above most frequent sense, pasts-of-speech only, and time expression only baselines.
Theassociations we found between user-level temporal ori-entation and conscientiousness, gender, and age vali-dated our novel method against well-established corre-lates.
We then explored novel links with other personalityfactors, satisfaction with life, depression, IQ, and numberof friends.Our automatic labeling of temporal orientation yieldedstrong accuracy.
There are, however, several ways inwhich our analysis might be improved or extended.
Weused a coding scheme that did not allow a ?no temporalorientation?
class.
Separate handling of ?non-temporal?younger menolder men?.2?.10.1.2.3.4.5?14 ?12 ?10 ?8 ?6 ?4 ?2 0 2 4 6 8 10 12 14days until birthday days after birthdaydaily futureorientationFigure 3: Daily proportion of future-oriented messagesleading up to and following birthdays.
Younger men: <23, N = 423; Older men: ?
23, N = 402.messages might provide more nuanced profiles of userorientation.
Another simplification was our binning oftemporal relations into past, present, and future.
Onemight want to instead use a continuous measure of tem-poral distance, indicating how far into the past or futurea message is oriented, providing a more detailed profileof individual orientations.
Among the future-oriented,for example, there may be important differences betweenthose who plan for tomorrow versus those who plan yearsin advance.
Assessing additional characteristics of mes-sages, such as sentiment, may also allow further insightand more nuanced characterizations (e.g.
?I will be fine?vs.
?I will never be ok?
).Whereas prior computational linguistics work withtemporal relations has focused on classifying events, wefocus on people and open many avenues for social scien-tific investigations that were previously not very feasible.For instance, temporal orientation was generally treatedas a stable trait (with little change through the lifetime);For men, we found age differences in temporal orienta-tion leading up to one?s birthday.
Learning how, why, andwhen people become more future-oriented may informplanning and risk assessment interventions, and lead tobetter understanding of health and economic prosperity.8 AcknowledgmentsWe thank George Wan for his assistance running proto-type classifiers.
This work was supported by the Temple-ton Religion Trust under grant #TRT0048.417ReferencesJean Adams and Daniel Nettle.
2009.
Time perspective, per-sonality and smoking, body mass, and physical activity:An empirical study.
British Journal of Health Psychology,14(1):83?105.Faiyaz Al Zamal, Wendy Liu, and Derek Ruths.
2012.
Ho-mophily and latent attribute inference: Inferring latent at-tributes of twitter users from neighbors.
In ICWSM.James F Allen.
1983.
Maintaining knowledge about temporalintervals.
Communications of the ACM, 26(11):832?843.Shlomo Argamon, Moshe Koppel, James W. Pennebaker, andJonathan Schler.
2009.
Automatically profiling the author ofan anonymous text.
Commun.
ACM, 52(2):119?123, Febru-ary.Roy F Baumeister, Kathleen D Vohs, and David C Funder.2007.
Psychology as the science of self-reports and fingermovements: Whatever happened to actual behavior?
Per-spectives on Psychological Science, 2(4):396?403.Shane Bergsma, Mark Dredze, Benjamin Van Durme, TheresaWilson, and David Yarowsky.
2013.
Broadly improvinguser classification via communication-based name and lo-cation clustering on twitter.
In Anuual Meeting of HLT-NAACL, pages 1010?1019.Christopher M Bishop.
2006.
Pattern recognition and machinelearning, volume 4.
Springer New York.Ilona Boniwell, Evgeny Osin, P Alex Linley, and Galina VIvanchenko.
2010.
A question of balance: Time perspectiveand well-being in british and russian samples.
The Journalof Positive Psychology, 5(1):24?40.John N Boyd and Philip G Zimbardo.
2005.
Time perspective,health, and risk taking.
In Understanding behavior in thecontext of time, pages 85?107.
Lawrence Erlbaum, Mahwah.John D Burger, John Henderson, George Kim, and GuidoZarrella.
2011.
Discriminating gender on twitter.
In Pro-ceedings of the Conference on Empirical Methods in Natu-ral Language Processing, pages 1301?1309.
Association forComputational Linguistics.Angel X Chang and Christopher Manning.
2012.
Sutime: Alibrary for recognizing and normalizing time expressions.
InLREC, pages 3735?3740.Yi Chang, Xuanhui Wang, Qiaozhu Mei, and Yan Liu.
2013.Towards twitter context summarization with user influencemodels.
In Proceedings of the sixth ACM international con-ference on Web search and data mining, pages 527?536.ACM.Corinna Cortes and Vladimir Vapnik.
1995.
Support-vectornetworks.
Machine learning, 20(3):273?297.Leon Derczynski, Diana Maynard, Niraj Aswani, and KalinaBontcheva.
2013.
Microblog-genre noise and impact onsemantic annotation accuracy.
In Proceedings of the 24thACM Conference on Hypertext and Social Media, pages 21?30.
ACM.Fien Desmyter and Rudi De Raedt.
2012.
The relationshipbetween time perspective and subjective well-being of olderadults.
Psychologica Belgica, 52(1):19?38.ED Diener, Robert A Emmons, Randy J Larsen, and SharonGriffin.
1985.
The satisfaction with life scale.
Journal ofpersonality assessment, 49(1):71?75.Ed Diener, Louis Tay, and Shigehiro Oishi.
2013.
Rising in-come and the subjective well-being of nations.
Journal ofPersonality and Social Psychology, 104(2):267?276.Rong-En Fan, Kai-Wei Chang, Cho-Jui Hsieh, Xiang-RuiWang, and Chih-Jen Lin.
2008.
LIBLINEAR: A libraryfor large linear classification.
Journal of Machine LearningResearch, 9:1871?1874.Wei Feng and Jianyong Wang.
2013.
Retweet or not?
: person-alized tweet re-ranking.
In Proceedings of the sixth ACMinternational conference on Web search and data mining,pages 577?586.
ACM.William J Friedman.
2000.
The development of children?sknowledge of the times of future events.
Child Development,71(4):913?932.Pierre Geurts, Damien Ernst, and Louis Wehenkel.
2006.
Ex-tremely randomized trees.
Machine learning, 63(1):3?42.Lewis R Goldberg.
1990.
An alternative?
description of per-sonality?
: the big-five factor structure.
Journal of Personal-ity and Social Ssychology, 59(6):1216?1229.Sumit Goswami, Sudeshna Sarkar, and Mayur Rustagi.
2009.Stylometric analysis of bloggers age and gender.
In ThirdInternational AAAI Conference on Weblogs and Social Me-dia.Pedro Calais Guerra, Wagner Meira Jr, and Claire Cardie.
2014.Sentiment analysis on evolving social streams: How self-report imbalances can help.
In Proceedings of the 7th ACMinternational conference on Web search and data mining,pages 443?452.
ACM.Francisco Iacobelli, Alastair J. Gill, Scott Nowson, and JonOberlander.
2011.
Large scale personality classification ofbloggers.
In Proc of the 4th int conf on Affect comput andintel interaction, pages 568?577.
Springer-Verlag.William James.
1890.
The principles of psychology.
HenryHolt and Company.Kelli A Keough, Philip G Zimbardo, and John N Boyd.
1999.Who?s smoking, drinking, and using drugs?
Time perspec-tive as a predictor of substance use.
Basic and Applied SocialPsychology, 21(2):149?164.M Kosinski and D Stillwell.
2012. myPersonality researchwiki.
http://www.mypersonality.org/wiki/.Kurt Lewin.
1942.
Time perspective and morale.
In Resolvingsocial conflicts and Field theory in social science, pages 80?93.
APA, Washington, D. C.Nira Liberman, Yaacov Trope, Sean M McCrea, and Steven JSherman.
2007.
The effect of level of construal on the tem-poral distance of activity enactment.
Journal of Experimen-tal Social Psychology, 43(1):143?149.Xiao Ling and Daniel S Weld.
2010.
Temporal informationextraction.
In Proceedings of the 24th AAAI Conference onArtificial Intelligence.F.
Mairesse, M.A.
Walker, M.R.
Mehl, and R.K. Moore.
2007.Using linguistic cues for the automatic recognition of per-sonality in conversation and text.
Journal of Artificial Intel-ligence Research, 30(1):457?500.Robert R McCrae and O P John.
1992.
An introduction to thefive-factor model and its applications.
Journal of Personal-ity, 60(2):175?215.Jari-Erik Nurmi.
2005.
Thinking about and acting upon the fu-ture: Development of future orientation across the life span.418In Alan Strathman and Jeff Joireman, editors, Understand-ing behavior in the context of time, pages 31?57.
LawrenceErlbaum, Mahwah.Rina Panigrahy, Marc Najork, and Yinglian Xie.
2012.
Howuser behavior is related to social affinity.
In Proceedings ofthe fifth ACM international conference on Web search anddata mining, pages 713?722.
ACM.Greg Park, H Andrew Schwartz, Johannes C Eichstaedt, Mar-garet L Kern, David J Stillwell, Michal Kosinski, Lyle HUngar, and Martin EP Seligman.
2015.
Automatic person-ality assessment through social media language.
Journal ofPersonality and Social Psychology.Delroy L Paulhus and Simine Vazire.
2007.
The self-reportmethod.
Handbook of research methods in personality psy-chology, pages 224?239.Fabian Pedregosa, Ga?el Varoquaux, Alexandre Gramfort, Vin-cent Michel, Bertrand Thirion, Olivier Grisel, Mathieu Blon-del, Peter Prettenhofer, Ron Weiss, Vincent Dubourg, et al2011.
Scikit-learn: Machine learning in Python.
The Jour-nal of Machine Learning Research, 12:2825?2830.James W. Pennebaker, C.K.
Chung, M. Ireland, A. Gonzales,and R.J. Booth.
2007.
The development and psychometricproperties of liwc2007.
Austin, TX, LIWC.
Net.Daniele Quercia, Renaud Lambiotte, David Stillwell, MichalKosinski, and Jon Crowcroft.
2012.
The personality of pop-ular facebook users.
In Proceedings of the ACM 2012 con-ference on Computer Supported Cooperative Work, pages955?964.
ACM.Lenore Sawyer Radloff.
1977.
The ces-d scale a self-reportdepression scale for research in the general population.
Ap-plied psychological measurement, 1(3):385?401.Brent W Roberts, Carl Lejuez, Robert F Krueger, Jessica MRichards, and Patrick L Hill.
2013.
What is conscientious-ness and how can it be assessed?
Developmental Psychol-ogy, (online advance publication).Maarten Sap, Gregory Park, Johannes C. Eichstaedt, Mar-garet L. Kern, David J. Stillwell, Michal Kosinski, Lyle H.Ungar, and H. Andrew Schwartz.
2014.
Developing ageand gender predictive lexica over social media.
In EMNLP2014, pages 1146?1151.
Association for Computational Lin-guistics.H Andrew Schwartz, Johannes C Eichstaedt, Margaret LKern, Lukasz Dziurzynski, Stephanie M Ramones, MeghaAgrawal, Achal Shah, Michal Kosinski, David Stillwell,Martin EP Seligman, et al 2013.
Personality, gender, andage in the language of social media: The open-vocabularyapproach.
PloS one, 8(9):e73791.Martin EP Seligman, Peter Railton, Roy F Baumeister, andChandra Sripada.
2013.
Navigating into the future ordriven by the past.
Perspectives on Psychological Science,8(2):119?141.Patrick E Shrout and Joseph L Fleiss.
1979.
Intraclass cor-relations: Uses in assessing rater reliability.
Psychologicalbulletin, 86(2):420?428.Laurence Steinberg, Sandra Graham, Lia OBrien, JenniferWoolard, Elizabeth Cauffman, and Marie Banich.
2009.Age differences in future orientation and delay discounting.Child Development, 80(1):28?44.Alan Strathman and Jeff Joireman, editors.
2005.
Understand-ing behavior in the context of time: Theory, research, andapplication.
Lawrence Erlbaum, Mahwah.Partha Pratim Talukdar, Derry Wijaya, and Tom Mitchell.
2012.Coupled temporal scoping of relational facts.
In Proceed-ings of the fifth ACM international conference on Web searchand data mining, pages 73?82.
ACM.Kristina Toutanova, Dan Klein, Christopher D Manning, andYoram Singer.
2003.
Feature-rich part-of-speech taggingwith a cyclic dependency network.
In Proceedings of the2003 Conference of the North American Chapter of the Asso-ciation for Computational Linguistics on Human LanguageTechnology-Volume 1, pages 173?180.
Association for Com-putational Linguistics.Naushad UzZaman, Hector Llorens, Leon Derczynski, MarcVerhagen, James Allen, and James Pustejovsky.
2013.SemEval-2013 task 1: TempEval-3: Evaluating time expres-sions, events, and temporal relations.
In Proceedings of the7th International Workshop on Semantic Evaluation.Marc Verhagen, Inderjeet Mani, Roser Sauri, Robert Knip-pen, Seok Bae Jang, Jessica Littman, Anna Rumshisky,John Phillips, and James Pustejovsky.
2005.
Automatingtemporal annotation with TARSQI.
In Proceedings of theACL 2005 on interactive poster and demonstration sessions,pages 81?84.
Association for Computational Linguistics.Marc Verhagen, Robert Gaizauskas, Frank Schilder, Mark Hep-ple, Graham Katz, and James Pustejovsky.
2007.
Semeval-2007 task 15: Tempeval temporal relation identification.
InProceedings of the 4th International Workshop on Seman-tic Evaluations, pages 75?80.
Association for ComputationalLinguistics.Marc Verhagen, Roser Sauri, Tommaso Caselli, and JamesPustejovsky.
2010.
SemEval-2010 task 13: TempEval-2.In Proceedings of the 5th International Workshop on Seman-tic Evaluation, pages 57?62.
Association for ComputationalLinguistics.Paul Webley and Ellen K Nyhus.
2006.
Parents influence onchildrens future orientation and saving.
Journal of EconomicPsychology, 27(1):140?164.Miaomiao Wen, Zeyu Zheng, Hyeju Jang, Guang Xiang, andCarolyn Penstein Ros?e.
2013.
Extracting events with infor-mal temporal references in personal histories in online com-munities.
In Proceedings of 51st annual meeting of the ACL,pages 836?842.Philip G Zimbardo and John N Boyd.
1999.
Putting time inperspective: A valid, reliable individual-differences metric.Journal of Personality and Social Psychology, 77(6):1271?1288.419
