Proceedings of NAACL-HLT 2015, pages 116?120,Denver, Colorado, May 31 ?
June 5, 2015.c?2015 Association for Computational LinguisticsUsing Word Semantics To Assist English as a Second Language LearnersMahmoud AzabUniversity of Michiganmazab@umich.eduChris HokampDublin City Universitychokamp@computing.dcu.ieRada MihalceaUniversity of Michiganmihalcea@umich.eduAbstractWe introduce an interactive interface thataims to help English as a Second Language(ESL) students overcome language relatedhindrances while reading a text.
The interfaceallows the user to find supplementary infor-mation on selected difficult words.
The inter-face is empowered by our lexical substitutionengine that provides context-based synonymsfor difficult words.
We also provide a prac-tical solution for a real-world usage scenario.We demonstrate using the lexical substitutionengine ?
as a browser extension that can anno-tate and disambiguate difficult words on anywebpage.1 IntroductionAccording to the U.S. Department of Education,about 11% of all the students in public schools inthe United States receive or have received Englishlanguage learning services.
The largest numbers ofESL students are in California (26% of all the stu-dents) and Texas (16%).
About 70% of these stu-dents are Spanish speakers (Dep, 2004).
Moreover,there is a large number of non-English speakingcountries that have programs for learning English,with as many as 750 million English as a ForeignLanguage students in the world (Crystal, 1997).The goal of a number of computer-based languagelearning tools developed to date is to provide as-sistance to those with limited language abilities, in-cluding students learning a second or a foreign lan-guage or people suffering from disabilities such asaphasia.
These tools draw on research in educa-tion, which found that text adaptation can improvethe reading comprehension skills for learners of En-glish (Yano et al, 1994; Carlo et al, 2004).
The lan-guage learning technology often consists of methodsfor text simplification and adaptation, which is per-formed either at syntactic (Carroll et al, 1999; Sid-dharthan et al, 2004) or lexical level (Carroll et al,1998; Devlin et al, 2000; Canning and Tait, 1999;Burstein et al, 2007).
Work has also been carriedout on the prediction and simplification of difficulttechnical text (Elhadad, 2006a; Elhadad, 2006b) andon the use of syntactic constraints for translations incontext (Grefenstette and Segond, 2003).In this paper, we describe an interface developedwith the goal of assisting ESL students in their En-glish reading activities.
The interface builds upon alexical substitution system that we developed, whichprovides synonyms and definitions for target wordsin context.
We first give a brief overview of the lex-ical substitution task, and then present our systemSALSA (Sinha and Mihalcea, 2014) and (Sinha andMihalcea, 2012).
We then describe the functionalityof the interface, and the interaction that a user canhave with this interface.2 Lexical SubstitutionLexical substitution, also known as contextual syn-onym expansion (McCarthy and Navigli, 2007), in-volves replacing a certain word in a given con-text with another, suitable word, such that the over-all meaning of the word and the sentence are un-changed.
As an example, see the four sentences inTable 1, drawn from the development data from theSEMEVAL-2007 lexical substitution task.
In the firstsentence, for instance, assuming we choose bright as116the target word, a suitable substitute could be bril-liant, which would both maintain the meaning of thetarget word and at the same time fit the context.Sentence Target SynonymThe sun was bright.
bright brilliantHe was bright and independent.
bright intelligentHis feature film debut won awards.
film movieThe market is tight right now.
tight pressuredTable 1: Examples of synonym expansion in contextWe perform contextual synonym expansion in twosteps: candidate synonym collection, followed bycontext-based synonym fitness scoring.Candidate synonym collection is the first step ofour system, and refers to the sub task of collecting aset of potential synonym candidates for a given tar-get word, starting with various resources.
Note thatthis step does not disambiguate the meaning of thetarget word.
Rather, all the possible synonyms areselected, and these synonyms can be further refinedin the later step.
For example, if we consider allthe possible meanings of the word bright, it can bepotentially replaced by brilliant, smart, intelligent,vivid, luminous.
SALSA uses five lexical resources,as listed in Table 2, to ensure a good collection ofcandidate synonyms.The second step is context-based synonym fitnessscoring, which refers to picking the best candidatesout of the several potential ones obtained as a re-sult of the previous step.
There are several ways inwhich fitness scoring can be performed, for exampleby accounting for the semantic similarity betweenthe context and a candidate synonym, or for the sub-stitutability of the synonym in the given context.
Weexperimented with several unsupervised and super-vised methods, and the method that was found towork best uses a set of features consisting of countsobtained from Google N-grams (Brants and Franz,2006) for several N-grams centered around the can-didate synonym when replaced in context.The synonym selection process inside SALSAwas evaluated under two different settings.
Thefirst evaluation setting consists of the lexical sampledataset made available during SEMEVAL 2007 (Mc-Carthy and Navigli, 2007) - a set of 1,700 annotatedexamples for 170 open-class words.
On this dataset,SALSA is able to find the synonym agreed upon byseveral human annotators as its best guess in 21.3%cases, and this synonym is in the top 10 candidatesreturned by our system in 64.7% cases.
These resultscompare favorably with the best results reported dur-ing SEMEVAL 2007 task on Lexical Substitution.The second evaluation setting is a dataset consist-ing of 550 open-class words in running text.
On thisset of words, SALSA finds the best manually as-signed synonym in 29.9% of the cases, and this syn-onym is in our top ten candidates in 73.7% of thecases.Overall, we believe SALSA is able to identifygood candidate synonyms for a target word in con-text, and therefore can form the basis for an interfaceto assist English learners.3 An Interface for English as a SecondLanguage LearnersOur goal is to leverage lexical substitution tech-niques in an interface that can provide support toESL and EFL students in their reading activities.
Itis often the case that students who are not proficientin English have difficulty with understanding certainwords.
This in turn has implications for their com-prehension of the text, and consequently can neg-atively impact their learning and knowledge acqui-sition process.
By having inline access to an ex-planation of the words they have difficulty with, webelieve these students will have easier access to theknowledge in the texts that they read.In order to support various devices and platforms,we implemented the prototype interface as a web ap-plication.
Given a text, the interface allows readersto click on selected vocabulary words, and view sup-plementary information in a side panel.
This sup-plementary information includes a list of in-contextsynonyms, as provided by our system.
In addition,we also include example sentences obtained fromWordNet, corresponding to the target word meaningdictated by the top synonym selected by SALSA.The interface also includes the possibility for theuser to provide feedback by upvoting or downvotingsupplementary information.
The goal of this com-ponent is to allow the user to indicate whether theyfound the information provided useful or not.
In ad-dition to providing direct feedback on the quality ofthe interface, this user input will also indirectly con-117Table 2: Subsets of the candidates provided by different lexical resources for the adjective brightResource CandidatesRoget (RG) ablaze aglow alight argent auroral beaming blazing brilliantWordNet (WN) burnished sunny shiny lustrous undimmed sunshiny brilliantTransGraph (TG) nimble ringing fine aglow keen glad light picturesqueLin (LN) red yellow orange pink blue brilliant green white darkEncarta (EN) clear optimistic smart vivid dazzling brainy livelytribute to the construction of a ?gold standard?
thatwe can use to further improve the tool.We evaluated an earlier static version of this inter-face with ESL students who read two articles fromthe BBC?s English learning website.
We manuallyselected difficult words from the text, and for thesewords provided a list of in-context synonyms andclear examples.
After each reading, the studentstook a post-reading quiz to evaluate their readingcomprehension.
We then evaluated the extent towhich we could predict a student?s performance onthe post-quiz using features of their interaction withthe tool.We also used this interface with English middleschool students whose primary language is English.The students had to read short excerpts of a bookthat was a part of their curriculum.
Students wereallowed to click on only one highlighted word perexcerpt.
In this experiment, supplementary informa-tion was provided from WordNet.
There was a post-reading quiz to evaluate the students understandingof the words.
By training a regression model on theinteraction features collected during the reading ex-ercises, we were able to accurately predict students?performance on the post-quiz (Hokamp et al, 2014).We have now enabled the SALSA interface toprovide feedback on arbitrary English content fromthe web.
By implementing the tool as a browser ex-tension, we are able to show inline additional infor-mation about text on any web page, even when thecontent is dynamically generated.The interface also collects both explicit and im-plicit feedback.
The explicit feedback is collectedvia upvotes and downvotes on feedback items.
Theimplicit feedback is based on the user interactionswith the system while they are reading.
Currently,we collect several kinds of interactions.
These in-teractions include the clicked words, counts of userclicks on a given word, the difficulty of the word asmeasured by the inverse document frequency, andthe number of syllables it contains.
In the future,this data will help us to adapt the tool to individualusers.4 DemonstrationDuring the demonstration, we will present the useof the interface.
We will allow participants to freelybrowse the web with our tool enabled, to view feed-back on lexical items, and to provide their ownfeedback on the quality of the results.
The systemwill automatically identify and highlight the diffi-cult words during browsing, and users can then clickthese highlighted words to receive supplementaryinformation, consisting of synonyms and definitions,which should assist them in reading and compre-hending the content.By hovering or clicking on an annotated word,users can access a small popup window that includessupplementary information.
This supplementary in-formation includes a list of in-context synonyms, asprovided by our system, and a clear example of theword in-context.
Figure 1 shows an example of thecurrent extension interface when a user hovers overthe word film.Although the reading activity + quiz format de-scribed above is necessary for the empirical evalua-tion of our tool, it does not demonstrate a real-worldusage scenario.
Therefore, we designed a browserextension to show a realistic use case for the lexi-cal substitution engine as the backend for a flexiblegraphical component that can add additional infor-mation to any content.
We anticipate that the exten-sion will prove useful to English language learnersas they navigate the Web, especially when they en-counter difficult English content.118Figure 1: Example of supplementary information that the extension provides the user with when a user hovers overthe word film.AcknowledgmentsThis work was partially funded by the National Sci-ence Foundation (CAREER award #1361274) andby DARPA (DEFT grant #12475008).
Any opin-ions, findings, and conclusions or recommendationsexpressed in this material are those of the authorsand do not necessarily reflect the views of the Na-tional Science Foundation, DARPA, or the othersources of support.ReferencesT.
Brants and A. Franz.
2006.
Web 1T 5-gram version 1.Linguistic Data Consortium.J.
Burstein, J.
Shore, J. Sabatini, and Y. Lee.
2007.
De-veloping a reading support tool for English languagelearners.
In Demo proceedings of the the annual con-ference of the North American chapter of the Asso-ciation for Computational Linguistics (NAACL-HLT2007), Rochester, NY.Y.
Canning and J. Tait.
1999.
Syntactic simplification ofnewspaper text for aphasic readers.
In Proceedings ofthe ACM SIGIR?99 Workshop on Customised Informa-tion Delivery, Berkeley, California.M.S.
Carlo, D. August, B. McLaughlin, C.E.
Snow,C.
Dressler, D. Lippman, T. Lively, and C. White.2004.
Closing the gap: Addressing the vocabularyneeds of english language learners in bilingual andmainstream classrooms.
Reading Research Quarterly,39(2).J.
Carroll, G. Minnen, Y. Canning, S. Devlin, and J. Tait.1998.
Practical simplification of English newspapertext to assist aphasic readers.
In Proceedings of theAAAI-98 Workshop on Integrating Artificial Intelli-gence and Assistive Technology, Madison, Wisconsin.J.
Carroll, G. Minnen, D. Pearce, Y. Canning, S. Devlin,and J. Tait.
1999.
Simplifying text for language-impaired readers.
In Proceedings of the Conferenceof the European Chapter of the ACL (EACL 1999),Bergen, Norway.D.
Crystal.
1997.
English as a global language.
Cam-bridge University Press.2004.
http://nces.ed.gov/fastfacts/display.asp?id=96.S.
Devlin, J. Tait, J. Carroll, G. Minnen, and D. Pearce.2000.
Making accessible international communicationfor people with language comprehension difficulties.In Proceedings of the Conference of Computers Help-ing People with Special Needs.N.
Elhadad.
2006a.
Comprehending technical texts: Pre-dicting and defining unfamiliar terms.
In Proceedingsof the Annual Symposium of the American Medical In-formatics Association, Washington.N.
Elhadad.
2006b.
User-Sensitive Text Summariza-tion: Application to the Medical Domain.
Ph.D. the-sis, Columbia University.G.
Grefenstette and F. Segond, 2003.
Multilingual On-Line Natural Language Processing, chapter 38.C.
Hokamp, R. Mihalcea, and P. Schuelke.
2014.
Mod-eling language proficiency using implicit feedback.In Proceedings of the Conference on Language Re-sources and Evaluations (LREC 2014), Reykjavik,Iceland, May.119D.
McCarthy and R. Navigli.
2007.
The semeval Englishlexical substitution task.
In Proceedings of the ACLSemeval workshop.A.
Siddharthan, A. Nenkova, and K. McKeown.
2004.Syntactic simplification for improving content selec-tion in multi-document summarization.
In Proceed-ings of the 20th international conference on Computa-tional Linguistics.R.
Sinha and R. Mihalcea.
2012.
Explorations in lexical-sample and all-words lexical substitution.
Journal ofNatural Language Engineering.Ravi Som Sinha and Rada Mihalcea.
2014.
Explorationsin lexical sample and all-words lexical substitution.Natural Language Engineering, 20(1):99?129.Y.
Yano, M. Long, and S. Ross.
1994.
The effects of sim-plified and elaborated texts on foreign language tool?sutility and effectiveness in terms of students?
readingcomprehension.
Language Learning, 44.120
