Development of Computational Linguistics Research:a Challenge for IndonesiaBobby Nazief, Ph.D.Computer Science Center, University of IndonesiaJakarta, Indonesianazief@cs.ui.ac.id1 IntroductionThe emergence of Internet as a globalinformation repository, where information of allkind is stored, requires intelligent informationprocessing tools (i.e., computer applications) tohelp the information seeker to retrieve the storedinformation.
To build these intelligentinformation processing tools, we need to buildcomputer applications that understand humanlanguage since most of those information isrepresented in human language.
This is wherecomputational linguistics becomes important,especially for countries like Indonesia that hostsmore than 200 million people.
We need todevelop a systematic understanding of theBahasa Indonesia (the Indonesian nationallanguage) to enable us develop the neededcomputer applications that will help us manageinformation intelligently.However, until recently, there is only a fewresearch activities in computational linguisticsconducted in Indonesia.
The establishment ofComputer Science departments in Indonesianuniversities that did not start until the beginningof 1980?s may be partially responsible for this1.In addition, the Indonesian linguists seem to bekeen on working ?manually?
instead of usingcomputers in conducting their linguisticsresearches as stated in Muhadjir (1995), onlyfew of them really make use of the technology.While, on the other hand, most computerscientists tend to use the practical approachrather than constructing a complete frameworkto understand the language when buildingrelated applications such as a specificinformation retrieval system.In the following, I will describe pastresearch activities in computational linguistics1Bandung Institute of Technology was the firstamong public universities that established ComputerScience department in 1980.on Bahasa Indonesia.
This description is by nomeans exhaustive since it is very difficult to findout research activities in computationallinguistics in Indonesia.2 Past Research Activities2.1 Corpus AnalysisCorpus analysis is an important means as a wayto understand the evolution of language usage byits people.
In the case of Bahasa Indonesia,research activities on corpus analysis werealmost none.
There was one work by R. R.Hardjadibrata (1969) from Monash University,who conducted word frequency analysis ofIndonesian newspapers.
There was also similarwork conducted the MMTS project (will bedescribed later, in the following section);however, the result of the group?s corpusanalysis was not made public.Given this condition, with a group ofcolleague both from the Faculty of ComputerScience and the Faculty of Letters, I conductedan Indonesian corpus analysis using  newspapersas the text source.
We collected 52 editions ofKompas, a national newspaper with a largenumber of readers, published in the year of1994.
Each of the 52 editions corresponds to aparticular week of the year and was takenrandomly from the 7 daily editions of that givenweek.
From this collection, we constructed acorpus consisting of 2.200.818 words that wereformed by 74.559 unique words.
Of these morethan 2 million words, 1.826.740 words that wereformed by 27.738 unique words are actuallywords that matched with the KBBI2 entries,while the rest are either names or foreign words.Detailed analysis can be found in Muhadjir(1996).2KBBI (Kamus Besar Bahasa Indonesia), thestandard word dictionary for Bahasa Indonesia,contains a little more than 70.000 word entries.2.2 Morphological AnalysisEveryone who has used a word processorunderstands the importance of a spelling checkerin helping him/her to produce an error-freedocument.
To develop a spelling checker, weneed to understand the morphological structureof words especially how derived-words areconstructed from their root-words and theaddition of affixes.We have conducted research to analyze themorphological structure of Indonesian wordsand based on this analysis we have developed astemming algorithm suitable for those words.Unlike English, where the role of suffixdominates the generation of derived-words,Bahasa Indonesia depends on both prefix andsuffix to derive new words.
Therefore, to stem aderived Indonesian word in order to obtain itsroot-word, we have to look at the presence ofboth prefix and suffix in that derived-word(Nazief, 1996).
In addition, similar to English,multiple suffixes can also be present on a givenderived-word.Based on this stemming algorithm, we havedeveloped a spelling checker and spelling-errorcorrector utilities as part of the LotusSmartsuite3 package.2.3 The MMTS ProjectOne notable research activity among thefew computational linguistics research activitiesin Indonesia is the Multilingual MachineTranslation System (MMTS) project conductedby the Agency for Assessment and Applicationof Technology (BPPT) as part of  multi-nationalresearch project between China, Indonesia,Malaysia, Thailand, and lead by Japan (seehttp://www.cicc.or.jp/homepage/english/about/act/mt/mt.htm, http://www.aia.bppt.go.id/mmts).Unfortunately, there are very few publicationsabout this work that could have benefited thecomputational linguistic community in thecountry.
One of the few publications that theMMTS project made available for public is theIndonesian Word Electronic Dictionary (KEBI),which could be accessed on-line onhttp://nlp.aia.bppt.go.id/.
The dictionary contains3Lotus Smartsuite is an office automation packageconsisting word processor, spreadsheet, presentationeditor, and database applications developed by LotusDevelopment Corporation.22.500 root-word and 43.500 derived-wordentries.3 Understanding Indonesian GrammarCurrently, I am concentrating my work ondeveloping syntax analyzer for sentences writtenin Bahasa Indonesia.
The approach takeninitially was to use the context free grammarwith restriction such as that used in the linguisticstring analysis (Sager, 1981).
Using thisapproach, we have developed grammar thatunderstands declarative sentences (Shavitri,1999).
However, our experience shows that weneed to have a more detailed word categoriesthan is currently available in the standardIndonesian word dictionary (KBBI) before thegrammar can be used effectively.This finding really shows us the importanceof collaborating with the linguists whounderstand this field better.
But before we dothis, we need to educate our linguist-fellows theimportance of computer in their fields.4 AcknowledgementsI would like to thank Mirna, bu Multamia,pak Muhadjir, bu Kiswartini, and all of mystudents who have collaborated with me in theseefforts to understand Bahasa Indonesia better.5 ReferencesR.
R. Hardjadibrata (1969) An Indonesian NewspaperWordcount.
Department of Indonesian and Malay,Faculty of Arts, Monash University, Cayton,Victoria.Muhadjir (1995) Menjaring Data dari Teks.Lembaran Sastra Universitas Indonesia, edisikhusus:Tautan Sastra & Komputer, Faculty ofLetters, University of Indonesia, Depok, pp.
81--91.Muhadjir, et.
al.
(1996) Frekuensi Kosakata BahasaIndonesia.
Faculty of Letters, University ofIndonesia, Depok, 207 p.Bobby A.
A. Nazief and Mirna Adriani (1996) ConfixStripping: Approach to Stemming Algorithm forBahasa Indonesia.
Internal publication.
Faculty ofComputer Science, University of Indonesia, Depok.Naomi Sager (1981) Natural Language InformationProcessing: A Computer Grammar of English andIts Aplications.
Addison-Wesley PublishingCompany, Massachusetts.Shelly Shavitri (1999) Analisa Struktur KalimatBahasa Indonesia dengan Menggunakan PenguraiKalimat Berbasis Linguistic String Analysis.Bachelor?s Thesis.
Faculty of Computer Science,University of Indonesia, Depok, 88 p.
