A Constraint-based Approach to English Prosodic ConstituentsEwan KleinDivision of InformaticsUniversity of Edinburgh2 Buccleuch Place, Edinburgh EH8 9LW, UKewan@cogsci.ed.ac.ukAbstractThe paper develops a constraint-based the-ory of prosodic phrasing and prominence,based on an HPSG framework, with animplementation in ALE.
Prominence andjuncture are represented by n-ary branchingmetrical trees.
The general aim is todefine prosodic structures recursively, inparallel with the definition of syntacticstructures.
We address a number of primafacie problems arising from the discrepancybetween syntactic and prosodic structure1 IntroductionThis paper develops a declarative treatment of pros-odic constituents within the framework of constraint-based phonology, as developed for example in (Bird,1995; Mastroianni and Carpenter, 1994).
Onsuch an approach, phonological representations areencoded with typed feature terms.
In addition tothe representational power of complex feature values,the inheritance hierarchy of types provides a flexiblemechanism for classifying linguistic structures, andfor expressing generalizations by means of typeinference.To date, little work within constraint-based phono-logy has addressed prosodic structure above the levelof the foot.
In my treatment, I will adopt the followingassumptions:1.
Phonology is induced in parallel with syntacticstructure, rather than being mapped from pre-built parse trees.2.
Individual lexical items do not impose constraintson their neighbour?s phonology.The first of these assumptions ensures that phonologyis compositional, in the sense that the only informationavailable when assembling the phonology of a com-plex constituent is the phonology of that constituentsdaughters.
The second assumption is one that isstandardly adopted in HPSG (Pollard and Sag, 1994),in the sense that heads can be subcategorized withrespect to the syntactic and semantic properties oftheir arguments (i.e., their arguments?
synsem values),but not with respect to their arguments?
phonologicalproperties.
Although I am not convinced that thisrestriction is correct, it is worthwhile to explore whatkinds of phonological analyses are compatible with it.Most of the data used in this paper was drawn fromthe SOLE spoken corpus (Hitzeman et al, 1998).1 Thecorpus was based on recordings of one speaker readingapproximately 40 short descriptive texts concerningjewelry.2 Syntactic and Prosodic Structure2.1 Metrical TreesMetrical trees were introduced by Liberman (1977) asa basis for formulating stress-assignment rules in bothwords and phrases.
Syntactic constituents are assignedrelative prosodic weight according to the followingrule:(1) NSR: In a configuration [C A B], if C is a phrasalcategory, B is strong.Prominence is taken to be a relational notion: aconstituent labelled ?s?
is stronger than its sister.Consequently, if B in (1) is strong, then A must beweak.In the case of a tree like (2), Liberman andPrince?s (1) yields a binary-branching structure of thekind illustrated in (3) (where the root of the tree isunlabeled):(2) VPVfastenNPDetaNcloak1The task of recovering relevant examples from theSOLE corpus was considerably aided by the Gsearch corpusquery system (Corley et al, 1999).
(3)wfastenswascloakFor any given constituent analysed by a metrical tree t,the location of its main stress can be found by tracinga path from the root of t to a terminal element ?
suchthat all nodes on that path are labelled ?s?.
Thus themain stress in (3) is located on the element cloak.
Ingeneral, the most prominent element, defined in thisway, is called the Designated Terminal Element (DTE)(Liberman and Prince, 1977).Note that (1) is the metrical version of Chomskyand Halle?s (1968) Nuclear Stress Rule (NSR), andencodes the same claim, namely that in the defaultcase, main stress falls on the last constituent in agiven phrase.
Of course, it has often been argued thatthe notion of ?default prominence?
is flawed, since itsupposes that the acceptability of utterances can bejudged in a null context.
Nevertheless, there is analternative conception: the predictions of the NSRcorrectly describe the prominence patterns when thewhole proposition expressed by the clause in questionreceives broad focus (Ladd, 1996).
This is the viewthat I will adopt.
Although I will concentrate inthe rest of the paper on the broad focus pattern ofintonation, the approach I develop is intended to linkup eventually with pragmatic information about thelocation of narrow focus.In the formulation above, (1) only applies tobinary-branching constituents, and the question ariseshow non-binary branching constituent structures (e.g.,for VPs headed by ditranstive verbs) should be treated.One option (Beckman, 1986; Pierrehumbert andBeckman, 1988; Nespor and Vogel, 1986) would beto drop the restriction that metrical trees are binary,allowing structures such as Fig 1.
Since the nestedstructure which results from binary branching appearsto be irrelevant to phonetic interpretation, I will usen-ary metrical trees in the following analysis.In this paper, I will not make use of the Pros-odic Hierarchy (Beckman and Pierrehumbert, 1986;Nespor and Vogel, 1986; Selkirk, 1981; Selkirk,1984).
Most of the phenomena that I wish to dealwith lie in the blurry region (Shattuck-Hufnagel andTurk, 1996) between the Phonological Word andthe Intonational Phrase (IP), and I will just referto ?prosodic constituents?
without committing myselfto a specific set of labels.
I will also not adoptthe Strict Layer Hypothesis (Selkirk, 1984) whichholds that elements of a given prosodic category(such as Intonational Phrase) must be exhaustivelyanalysed into a sequence of elements of the next lowercategory (such as Phonological Phrase).
However, itis important to note that every IP will be a prosodicconstituent, in my sense.
Moreover, my lower-levelprosodic constituents could be identified with the?-phrases of (Selkirk, 1981; Gee and Grosjean, 1983;Nespor and Vogel, 1986; Bachenko and Fitzpatrick,1990), which are grouped together to make IPs.2.2 Representing Prosodic StructureI shall follow standard assumptions in HPSG byseparating the phonology attribute out from syntax-semantics (SYNSEM):(4) feat-struc !
"PHON prosSYNSEM synsem#The type of value of PHON is pros (i.e., prosody).In this paper, I am going to take word forms asphonologically simple.
This means that the prosodictype of word forms will be maximal in the hierarchy.The only complex prosodic objects will be metricaltrees.
The minimum requirements for these are thatwe have, first, a way of representing nested prosodicdomains, and second, a way of marking the strongelement (Designated Terminal Element; DTE) in agiven domain.Before elaborating the prosodic signature further,I need to briefly address the prosodic status ofmonosyllabic function words in English.
Althoughthese are sometimes classified as clitics, Zwicky(1982) proposes the term Leaners.
These ?form arhythmic unit with the neighbouring material, arenormally unstressed with respect to this material, anddo not bear the intonational peak of the unit.
Englisharticles, coordinating conjunctions, complementizers,relative markers, and subject and object pronouns areall leaners in this sense?
(Zwicky, 1982, p5).
Zwickytakes pains to differentiate between Leaners andclitics; the former combine with neighbours to formPhonological Phrases (with juncture characterized byexternal sandhi), whereas clitics combine with theirhosts to form Phonological Words (where juncture ischaracterized by internal sandhi).Since Leaners cannot bear intonational peaks,they cannot act as the DTE of a metrical tree.Consequently, the value of the attribute DTE in ametrical tree must be the type of all prosodic objectswhich are not Leaners.
I call this type full, andit subsumes both Prosodic Words (of type p-wrd)and metrical trees (of type mtr).
Moreover, sinceLeaners form a closer juncture with their neighboursthan Prosodic Words do, we distinguish two kindsof metrical tree.
In a tree of type full-mtr, all thedaughters are of type full, whereas in a tree of typelnr-mtr, only the DTE is of type full.wfastenwwthescloakswatwthescollarFigure 1: Non-binary Metrical Treeproslnr fullp-wrdmtrDOM: list(pros)DTE: fulllnr-mtrDOM: list(lnr)  h 1 iDTE: 1full-mtrDOM: list(full)Figure 2: Prosodic SignatureIn terms of the attribute-value logic, we thereforepostulate a type mtr of metrical tree which introducesthe feature DOM (prosodic domain) whose value is alist of prosodic elements, and a feature DTE whosevalue is a full prosodic object:(5) mtr !
"DOM list(pros)DTE full#Fig 2 displays the prosodic signature for thegrammar.
The types lnr-mtr and full-mtr specialise theappropriateness conditions on mtr, as discussed above.Notice that in the constraint for objects of type lnr-mtr, is the operation of appending two lists.Since elements of type pros can be word-formsor metrical trees, the DOM value in a mtr can, inprinciple, be a list whose elements range from simpleword-forms to lists of any level of embedding.
Oneway of interpreting this is to say that DOM valuesneed not obey the Strict Layer Hypothesis (brieflymentioned in Section 2.1 above).To illustrate, a sign whose phonology valuecorresponded to the metrical tree (6) (where theword this receives narrow focus) would receive therepresentation in Fig 3.
(6)wfastenssthiswcloak2666666666664signPHON2666666664full-mtrDOM*fasten, 12664full-mtrDOMD2 this, cloakEDTE 23775+DTE 137777777753777777777775Figure 3: Feature-based Encoding of a Metrical Tree3 Associating Prosody with SyntaxIn this section, I will address the way in whichprosodic constituents can be constructed in parallelwith syntactic ones.
There are two, orthogonal,dimensions to the discussion.
The first is whetherthe syntactic construction in question is head-initialor head-final.
The second is whether any of theconstituents involved in the construction is a Leaneror not.
I will take the first dimension as primary, andintroduce issues about Leaners as appropriate.The approach which I will present has beenimplemented in ALE (Carpenter and Penn, 1999), andalthough I will largely avoid presenting the rules inALE notation, I have expressed the operations forbuilding prosodic structures so as to closely reflect therelational constraints encoded in the ALE grammar.3.1 Head-Initial ConstructionsAs far as head-initial constructions are concerned,I will confine my attention to syntactic constituentswhich are assembled by means of HPSG?s Head-2664phrasePHON mkMtr(h?0;?1; : : :?ni)SYNSEMhCOMPS hii3775 !26664wordPHON ?0COMPS1hPHON ?1i, : : : , nhPHON ?1i377751 , : : : , nFigure 4: Head-Complement RuleComplement Rule (Pollard and Sag, 1994), illustratedin Fig 4.
The ALE rendering of the rule is given in (7).
(7) head_complement rule(phrase, phon:MoPhon,synsem:(comps:[],spr:S,head:Head))===>cat> (word, phon:HdPhon,synsem:(comps:Comps,spr:S,head:Head)),cats> Comps,goal> (getPhon(Comps, PhonList),mkMtr([HdPhon|PhonList], MoPhon)).The function mkMtr (make metrical tree) (encodedas a relational constraint in (7)) takes a list consistingof all the daughters?
phonologies and builds anappropriate prosodic object ?.
As the name of thefunction suggests, this prosodic object is, in thegeneral case, a metrical tree.
However, since metricaltrees are relational (i.e., one node is stronger than theothers), it makes no sense to construct a metrical treeif there is only a single daughter.
In other words, if thehead?s COMPS list is empty, then the argument mkMtris a singleton list containing only the head?s PHONvalue, and this is returned unaltered as the functionvalue.
(8) mkMtr(h 1 [pros]i) = 1The general case requires at least the first two elementson the list of prosodies to be of type full, and builds atree of type full mtr.
(9) mkMtr( 1 h[full], [full], : : : , 2 i) =264full-mtrDOM 1DTE 2375Note that the domain of the output tree is the inputlist, and the DTE is just the right-hand element of thedomain.
(10) shows the constraint in ALE notation;the relation rhd DTE/2 simply picks out the lastelement of the list L.(10) mkMtr(([full, full|_], L),(full_mtr, dom:L, dte:X)) ifrhd_DTE(L, X).Examples of the prosody constructed for an N-barand a VP are illustrated in (11)?(12).
For convenience,I use [of the samurai] to abbreviate the AVMrepresentation of the metrical tree for of the samurai,and similarly for [a cloak] and [at the collar].
(11) mkMtr(hpossession, [of the samurai]i) =2664full-mtrDOMDpossession, 1 [of the samurai]EDTE 13775(12) mkMtr(hfasten, [a cloak], [at the collar]i) =2664full-mtrDOMDfasten, [a cloak], 1 [at the collar]EDTE 13775Let?s now briefly consider the case of a weakpronominal NP occurring within a VP.
Zwicky(1986) develops a prosodically-based account of thedistribution of unaccented pronouns in English, asillustrated in the following contrasts:(13) a.
We took in the unhappy little mutt rightaway.b.
*We took in h?im right away.c.
We took h?im in right away.
(14) a. Martha told Noel the plot of Gravity?sRainbow.b.
*Martha told Noel ?it.c.
Martha told ?it to Noel.Pronominal NPs can only form prosodic phrases intheir own right if they bear accent; unaccented pro-nominals must combine with a host to be admissible.Zwicky?s constraints on when this combination canoccur are as follows:(15) A personal pronoun NP can form a prosodicphrase with a preceding prosodic host only if thefollowing conditions are satisfied:a. the prosodic host and the pronominal NP aresisters;b. the prosodic host is a lexical category;c. the prosodic host is a category that governscase marking.2664phrasePHON extMtr(?1;?0)SYNSEMhSPR hii3775 !126664phrasePHON ?0SPR1hPHON ?1i37775Figure 5: Head-Specifier RuleThese considerations motivate a third clause to thedefinition of mkMtr:(16) mkMtr(h 1 [p-wrd], 2 [lnr]i 3 ) =mkMtr(h264lnr-mtrDOM h 1 , 2 iDTE 13753i )That is, if the first two elements of the list are aProsodic Word and a Leaner, then the two of themcombine to form a lnr-mtr, followed by any othermaterial on the input list.
Because of the way inwhich this prosodic constraint is associated with theHead-Complement Rule, the prosodic host in (16),namely the p-wrd tagged 1 , is automatically thesyntactic head of the construction.
As a result,Zwicky?s conditions in (15) fall out directly.(17)?
(18) illustrate the effects of the new clause.
Inthe first case, the lnr-mtr consisting of told and it is theonly item on the list in the recursive call to mkMtr in(16), and hence the base clause (8) in the definition ofmkMtr applies.
In the second case, there is more thanone item on the list, and the lnr-mtr becomes a subtreein a larger metrical domain.
(17) mkMtr([told, it]) =2664lnr-mtrDOMD1 told, itEDTE 13775(18) mkMtr([told, it, [to Noel]]) =2666666664full-mtrDOM*2664lnr-mtrDOMD1 told, itEDTE 137752 [to Noel]+DTE 23777777775By contrast, examples of the form told Noel ?it fail toparse, since (16) only licenses a head-initial lnr-mtrwhen the Leaner immediately follows the head.
Wecould however admit told Noel ?it, if the lexiconcontained a suitable entry for accent-bearing ?it withprosody of type p wrd, since this would satisfy therequirement that only prosodies of type full can be thevalue of a metrical tree?s DTE.3.2 Head-Final ConstructionsTo illustrate head-final constructions, I will focuson NP structures, considering the combination ofdeterminers and prenominal adjectives with N-barphrases.
I take the general case to be illustrated bycombining a determiner like this with a phrase liketreasured possession to form one metrical tree.
Sincetreasured possession will itself be a metrical tree, Iintroduce a new, binary, function for this purpose,namely extMtr (extend metrical tree) which adds anew prosodic element to the left boundary of anexisting tree.
For convenience, I will call the leftmostargument of extMtr the extender.Fig 5 illustrates the way in which extMtr is usedto build the prosody of a specifier-head construction,while (19) provides the definition of extMtr.
Anexample of the output is illustrated in (20).
(19) extMtr( 1 [full],"DOM 2DTE 3#) =264full-mtrDOM 1  2DTE 3375(20) extMtr(this, [treasured possession]) =2664full-mtrDOMDthis, treasured, 1 possessionEDTE 13775However, there are now a number of special casesto be considered.
First, we have to allow that the headphrase is a single Prosodic Word such as possession,rather than a metrical tree.
Second, the prosodicstructure to be built will be more complex if the headphrase itself contains a post-head complement, as intreasured possession of the samurai.
Crosscutting thisdimension is the question of whether the extender is aLeaner, in which case it will form a lnr-mtr with theimmediately following element.
We will look at thesecases in turn.
(i) The head is a single Prosodic Word When thesecond prosodic argument of extMtr is not in fact ametrical tree, it calls mkMtr to build a new metricaltree.
Definition (21) is illustrated in (22).NPDettheNomAdjPmost treasuredNomNpossessionPPPofNPthe samuraiFigure 6: Right-branching NP Structurewwthe mostwtreasuredspossessionsof the samuraiFigure 7: Flat NP Prosodic Structure(21) extMtr( 1 [pros], 2 [p-wrd]) =mkMtr(h 1 , 2 i)(22) extMtr(treasured, possession) =2664full-mtrDOMDtreasured, 1 possessionEDTE 13775(ii) The head contains post-head material Perhapsthe most awkward kind of mismatch between syntacticand prosodic structure arises when when the comple-ment or postmodifier of a syntactic head is ?promoted?to the level of sister of the constituent in which thehead occurs; this creates a disjuncture between thelexical head and whatever follows.
Fig 6 gives atypical example of this phenomenon, where the nounpossession is followed by a prepositional complement,while Fig 7 represents the prosodic constituency.Let?s consider how treasured should combine withpossession of the samurai.
The Head-ComplementRule will have built a prosodic structure of the form[possession [of the samurai]] for the latter phrase.
Toobtain the correct results, we need to be able to detectthat this is a metrical tree M whose leftmost elementis a lexical head (by contrast, for example, with thestructure [treasured possession]).
In just this case, theextender can not only extend M but also create a newsubtree by left-associating with the lexical head.2 Therequired definition is shown in (23) and illustrated inexample (24).
(23) extMtr( 1 [full],"DOM 2 p-wrd  3DTE 4#) =2The special prosodic status of lexical heads is incorpor-ated in Selkirk?s (1981) notion of ?-phrase, and subsequentdevelopments thereof, such as (Selkirk, 1986; Nespor andVogel, 1986).264full-mtrDOM extMtr( 1 , 2 )  3DTE 4375provided that 2 is the lexical head.
(24) extMtr(this,2664full-mtrDOMDpossession, 1 [of the samurai]EDTE 13775) =26666664full-mtrDOM*24DOMDthis, 2 possessionEDTE 235, 1 [of the samurai]+DTE 137777775Turning back briefly to the Head-Specifier Rule shownin Fig 5, we can now see that if ?0 is a metricaltree M, then the value of extMtr(?1;?0) depends onthe syntactic information associated with the leftmostelement P of that tree.
That is, if P is the phonologyof the lexical head of the phrase, then it can beprosodically disjoined from the following material,otherwise the metrical tree M is extended in thestandard way.There are various ways that this sensitivity tosyntactic role might be accommodated.
One optionwould to inspect the DTRS (daughters) attribute of asign.
However, I will briefly sketch the treatmentimplemented in the ALE grammar, which does notbuild a representation of daughters.
Instead, I haveintroduced an attribute LEX inside the value of HEADwhich is constrained in the case of lexical items to betoken-identical to the PHON value.
For example, thetype for possession is approximately as follows:(25)266666664wordPHON 1 possessionSYNSEM2664SYN j HEAD"nounLEX 1#ARG-ST hPPi3775377777775Since LEX is a head feature, it percolates up toany phrase projected from that head, and allows thePHON value of the lexical head to be accessed atthat projection; i.e., headed phrases will also bear aspecification [LEX phon], which can be interpreted assaying ?my lexical head?s phonology value is phon?.In addition, we let the function extMtr in Fig 5 take asan extra argument the HEAD value of the mother, andthen test whether the leftmost Prosodic Word in themetrical tree being extended is the same as the LEXvalue of the mother?s HEAD value.
(iii) Extending the head with a Leaner Finally,there is an additional clause to accommodate thecase where the extending element is a Leaner.
Thistriggers a kind of left association, in that the result ofcombining a with [treasured possession] is a structureof the form [[a treasured] possession].
(26) extMtr( 1 [lnr],"DOM h 2 i  3DTE 4# ) =264full-mtrDOM extMtr( 1 , 2 )  3DTE 4375This will also allow an unaccented subject pronounto left-associate with the lexical head of a VP, as in[[he provoked] [the objections of everyone]] (Gee andGrosjean, 1983).4 Concluding RemarksI believe that the preceding analysis demonstrates thatdespite the well-known mismatches between syntacticand prosodic structure, it is possible to induce therequired prosodic structures in tandem with syntax.Moreover, the analysis retains rather conventionalnotions of syntactic constituency, eschewing the non-standard syntactic constituents advocated by Prevostand Steedman (1993), Steedman (1990; 1991).Although I have only mentioned two syntactic rulesin HPSG, the radically underspecified nature of theserules, coupled with rich lexical entries, means that theapproach I have sketched has more generality thanmight appear at first.
With the addition of a rulefor prenominal adjectives, prosodically interpretedlike the Head-Specifier Rule, we can derive a rangeof analyses as summarised in (27).
Here, I usesquare brackets to demarcate trees of type full-mtr andparentheses for trees of type lnr-mtr.
(27) a.
[this possession](of the samurai)b.
[this treasured possession](of the samurai)c. (a treasured) possessiond.
(a treasured) possession [(of these) people]e. Kim gave (the book) (to the boy)f. Kim (gave it) (to the boy)g. Kim is happy [about Lee]h. Kim is happy [(that Lee) is fond (of the bird)]i. Kim wanted (to rely) (on the report) [(thatLee) is fond (of the bird)]It would be straightforward to augment the grammarto accommodate post-modifiers of various kinds,which would behave prosodically like post-headcomplements.
By contrast, auxiliaries do not conformto the association between headed structures andprosodic structures that we have seen so far.
That is, ifauxiliaries are a subtype of complement-taking verbs,as assumed within HPSG, then they depart from theusual pattern in behaving prosodically like specifiersrather than heads.There are numerous directions in which the currentwork can be extended.
In terms of empirical coverage,a more detailed account of weak function wordsseems highly desirable.
The approach can alsobe tested within the context of speech synthesis,and preliminary work is underway on extending theFestival system (Black and Taylor, 1997) to acceptinput text marked up with metrical trees of the kindpresented here.
In the longer term, the intention is tointegrate prosodic realisation within the framework ofan HPSG-based concept-to-speech system.AcknowledgementsI am grateful to Philip Miller, Mike Reape, Ivan Sagand Paul Taylor for their helpful comments on variousincarnations of the work reported here.ReferencesJ.
Bachenko and E. Fitzpatrick.
1990.
A com-putational grammar of discourse-neutral prosodicphrasing in English.
Computational Linguistics,16(3):155?170.Mary E. Beckman and Janet B. Pierrehumbert.
1986.Intonational structure in English and Japanese.Phonology Yearbook, 3:255?310.Mary E. Beckman.
1986.
Stress and Non-StressAccent.
Foris, Dordrecht, Holland.Steven Bird.
1995.
Computational Phonology: AConstraint-Based Approach.
Studies in NaturalLanguage Processing.
Cambridge University Press.Alan W. Black and Paul Taylor.
1997.
Thefestival speech synthesis system.
Technical ReportTR-83, Human Communication Research Centre,University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK, January.Bob Carpenter and Gerald Penn, 1999.
ALE:The Attribute Logic Engine.
User?s Guide.
BellLaboratories, Lucent Technologies, Murray Hill,NJ, version 3.2 beta edition.Noam Chomsky and Morris Halle.
1968.
The SoundPattern of English.
Harper and Row, New York.Steffan Corley, Martin Corley, Frank Keller, Mat-thew W. Crocker, and Shari Trewin.
1999.Finding syntactic structure in unparsed corpora:The gsearch corpus query system.
Computers andthe Humanities.James Paul Gee and Franc?ois Grosjean.
1983.Performance structures: a psycholinguistic andlinguistic appraisal.
Cognitive Psychology, 15:411?458.Janet Hitzeman, Alan W. Black, Paul Taylor, ChrisMellish, and Jon Oberlander.
1998.
On the useof automatically generated discourse-level inform-ation in a concept-to-speech synthesis system.
InICSLP?98, pages 2763?2768.D.
Robert Ladd.
1996.
Intonational Phonology.Cambridge University Press, Cambridge.Mark Liberman and Alan Prince.
1977.
On stress andlinguistic rhythm.
Linguistic Inquiry, 8:249?336.Michael Mastroianni and Bob Carpenter.
1994.Constraint-based morpho-phonology.
In Proceed-ings of the First ACL SIGPhon Workshop, LosCruces, New Mexico.
Association for Computa-tional Linguistics.Marina Nespor and Irene Vogel.
1986.
ProsodicPhonology.
Number 28 in Studies in GenerativeGrammar.
Foris Publications, Dordrecht.Janet B. Pierrehumbert and Mary E. Beckman.
1988.Japanese Tone Structure.
Number 15 in LinguisticInquiry Monographs.
The MIT Press, Cambridge,MA.Carl Pollard and Ivan A.
Sag.
1994.
Head-DrivenPhrase Structure Grammar.
CSLI and Universityof Chicago Press, Stanford, Ca.
and Chicago, Ill.Scott Prevost and Mark Steedman.
1993.
Generatingcontextually appropriate intonation.
In Proceedingsof the 6th Conference of the European Chapterof the Association for Computational Linguistics,pages 332?340, Utrecht, The Netherlands, April21?23.
OTS (The Research Institute for Languageand Speech).Elisabeth Selkirk.
1981.
On prosodic structure and itsrelation to syntactic structure.
In T. Fretheim, ed-itor, Nordic Prosody II: Papers from a Symposium.Tapir, Trondheim.Elisabeth O. Selkirk.
1984.
Phonology and Syntax:The Relation between Sound and Structure.
CurrentStudies in Linguistics.
MIT Press, Cambridge,Mass.Elisabeth O. Selkirk.
1986.
On derived domains insentence phonology.
Phonology Yearbook, 3:371?405.Stefanie Shattuck-Hufnagel and Alice E. Turk.
1996.A prosody tutorial for investigators of auditorysentence processing.
Journal of PsycholinguisticResearch, 25(2):193?247.Mark Steedman.
1990.
Intonation and structure inspoken language understanding.
In Proceedingsof the 28th Annual Meeting of the Association forComputational Linguistics, pages 9?16, Pittsburgh,Pa., June.
University of Pittsburgh.Mark Steedman.
1991.
Structure and intonation.Language, 67(2):260?296, June.Arnold M. Zwicky.
1982.
Stranded to andphonological phrasing in English.
Linguistics,20(1/2):3?57.Arnold M. Zwicky.
1986.
The unaccented pronounconstraint in English.
In Arnold M. Zwicky, editor,Interfaces, volume 32 of Ohio State UniversityWorking Papers in Linguistics, pages 100?114.Ohio State University Department of Linguistics,July.
