A Hierarchical Account of Referential AccessibilityNancy IDEDepartment of Computer ScienceVassar CollegePoughkeepsie, New York 12604-0520 USAide@cs.vassar.eduDan CRISTEADepartment of Computer ScienceUniversity ?Al.
I. Cuza?Iasi, Romaniadcristea@infoiasi.roAbstractIn this paper, we outline a theory ofreferential accessibility called VeinsTheory (VT).
We show how VT addressesthe problem of "left satellites", currently aproblem for stack-based models, and showthat VT can be used to significantly reducethe search space for antecedents.
We alsoshow that VT provides a better model fordetermining domains of referentialaccessibility, and discuss how VT can beused to address various issues of structuralambiguity.IntroductionIn this paper, we outline a theory of referentialaccessibility called Veins Theory (VT).
Wecompare VT to stack-based models based onGrosz and Sidner's (1986) focus spaces, andshow how VT addresses the problem of "leftsatellites", i.e., subordinate discourse segmentsthat appear prior to their nuclei (dominatingsegments) in the linear text.
Left-satellites posea problem for stack-based models, whichremove subordinate segments from the stackbefore pushing a nuclear or dominatingsegment, thus rendering them inaccessible.
Thepercentage of such cases is typically small,which may account for the fact that theirtreatment has been largely overlooked in theliterature, but the phenomenon nonethelesspersists in most texts.
We also show how VTcan be used to address various issues ofstructural ambiguity.1 Veins TheoryVeins Theory (VT) extends and formalizes therelation between discourse structure andreference proposed by Fox (1987).
VTidentifies ?veins?
over discourse structure treesthat are built according to the requirements putforth in Rhetorical Structure Theory (RST)(Mann and Thompson, 1987).
RST structuresare represented as binary trees, with no loss ofinformation.
Veins are computed based on theRST-specific distinction between nuclei andsatellites; therefore, RST relations labelingnodes in the tree are ignored.
Terminal nodesin the tree represent discourse units and non-terminal nodes represent discourse relations.The fundamental intuition underlying VT isthat the distinction between nuclei andsatellites constrains the range of referents towhich anaphors can be resolved; in otherwords, the nucleus-satellite distinction inducesa domain of referential accessibility (DRA) foreach referential expression.
More precisely, foreach anaphor a in a discourse unit u , VThypothesizes that a can be resolved byexamining referential expressions that wereused in a subset of the discourse units thatprecede u; this subset is called the DRA of u.For any elementary unit u in a text, thecorresponding DRA is computed automaticallyfrom the text's RST tree  in two steps:1.
Heads for each node are computed bottom-up over the rhetorical representation tree.Heads of elementary discourse units arethe units themselves.
Heads of internalnodes, i.e., discourse spans, are computedby taking the union of the heads of theimmediate child nodes that are nuclei.
Forexample, for the text in Figure 1,1 with therhetorical structure shown in Figure 2,2 thehead of span [5,7] is unit 5.
Note that thehead of span [6,7] is the list <6,7> becauseboth immediate children are nuclei.2 .
Using the results of step 1, Veinexpressions are computed top-down foreach node in the tree, using the followingfunctions:-  mark (x), which returns each symbol in astring of symbols x marked withparentheses.-  seq(x,y), which concatenates the labels inx with the labels in y, left-to-right.-  simpl(x), which eliminates all markedsymbols from x, if they exist.The vein of the root is its head.
Veins ofchild nodes are computed recursively, asfollows:?
for each nuclear node whose parenthas vein v, if the node has a left non-nuclear sibling with head h, then thevein expression is seq(mark(h), v);otherwise v.?
for each non-nuclear node with head hwhose parent node has vein v, if thenode is the left child of its parent, thenseq(h,v); otherwise, seq(h, simpl(v)).1Figure 1 highlights two co-referential equivalenceclasses: referential expressions surrounded byboxes refer to ?Mr.
Casey?
; those surrounded byellipses refer to ?Genetic Therapy Inc.?.2The rhetorical structure is represented using theconventions proposed by Mann and Thompson(1988).One of the conjectures of VT is that the veinexpression of a unit (terminal node), whichincludes a chain of discourse units that containthat unit itself, provides an ?abstract?
orsummary of the discourse fragment thatcontains that unit.
Because it is an internallycoherent piece of discourse, all referentialexpressions (REs) in the unit preferentiallyfind their referees within that sub-text.Referees that do not appear in the DRA arepossible, but are more difficult to process, bothcomputationally and cognitively (see Section2.2).
This conjecture expresses the intuitionthat potential referees of the REs of a unitdepend on the nuclearity of previous units:both a satellite and a nucleus can access aprevious nuclear node, a nucleus can onlyaccess another left nuclear node or its own leftsatellite, and the interposition of a nucleusafter a satellite blocks the accessibility of thesatellite for any nodes lower in the hierarchy.1.
Michael D. Casey, a top Johnson & Johnsonmanager, moved to Genetic Therapy Inc., asmall biotechnology concern here,2.
to become its president and chief operatingofficer3.
Mr. Casey, 46, years old, was president ofJ&J?s McNeil Pharmaceutical subsidiary,4.
which was merged with another J&J unit,Ortho Pharmaceutical Corp., this year in acost-cutting move.5.
Mr. Casey succeeds M. James Barrett, 50, aspresident of Genetic Therapy.6.
Mr. Barrett remains chief executive officer7.
and becomes chairman.8.
Mr. Casey said9.
he made the move to the smaller company10.
because he saw health care moving towardtechnologies like the company?s genetherapy products.11.
I believe that the field is emerging and isprepared to break loose,12.
he said.Figure 1: MUC corpus text fragmentThe DRA of a unit u is given by the units inthe vein that precede u.
For example, for thetext and RST tree in Figures 1 and 2, the veinexpression of unit 3, which contains units 1and 3, suggests that anaphors from unit 3should be resolved only to referentialexpressions in units 1 and 3.
Because unit 2 isa satellite to unit 1, it is considered to be?blocked?
to referential links from unit 3.
Incontrast, the DRA of unit 9, consisting of units1, 8, and 9, reflects the intuition that anaphorsfrom unit 9 can be resolved only to referentialexpressions from unit 1, which is the mostimportant unit in span [1,7] and to unit 8, asatellite that immediately precedes unit 9.Figure 2 shows the heads and veins of allinternal nodes in the rhetorical representation.In general, co-referential relations (such as theidentity relation) induce equivalence classesover the set of referential expressions in a text.When hierarchical adjacency is considered, ananaphor may be resolved to a referent that isnot the closest in a linear interpretation of atext.
However, because referential expressionsare organized in equivalence classes, it issufficient that an anaphor is resolved to somemember of the set.
This is consistent with thedistinction between "direct" and "indirect"references discussed in (Cristea, et al, 1998).1 2 3 456 7 891011 1213-??
?-?H = 1 9 *V = 1 9 *H = 1V = 1 9 *H = 9V = 1 9 *H = 1V = 1 9 *H = 5V = 1 5 9 *H = 1V = 1 9 *H = 3V = 1 3 5 9 *H = 6 7V = 1 5 6 7 9 *H = 9V = 1 9 *H = 9V = 1 9 *H = 9V = 1 (8) 9 *H = 10V = 1 9 10 *H = 11V = 1 9 10 11 *H = 3V = 1 3 5 9DRA  = 1 3 H = 9V = 1 (8) 9DRA  = 1 8 9Figure 2: RST analysis of the text in Figure 12 VT and Stack-based ModelsVeins Theory claims that references from agiven unit are possible only in its DRA, i.e., thatdiscourse structure constrains the areas of thetext over which references can be resolved.
Inprevious work, we compared the potential ofhierarchical and linear models of discourse--i.e.,approaches that enumerate potential antecedentsin an undifferentiated window of text linearlypreceding the anaphor under scrutiny--tocorrectly establish co-referential links in texts,and hence, their  potential to correctly resolveanaphors (Cristea, et al, 2000).
Our resultsshowed that by exploiting the hierarchicaldiscourse structure of texts, one can increase thepotential of natural language systems to correctlydetermine co-referential links, which is arequirement for correctly resolving anaphors.
Ingeneral, the potential to correctly determine co-referential links was greater for VT than forlinear models when one looks back 4 elementarydiscourse units.
When looking back more thanfour units, the linear model was equallyeffective.Here, we compare VT to stack-based models ofdiscourse structure based on Grosz and Sidner's(1986) (G&S) focus spaces (e.g., Hahn andStr?be, 1997; Azzam, et al, 1998).
In theseapproaches, discourse segments are pushed onthe stack as they are encountered in a lineartraversal of the text.
Before a dominatingsegment is pushed, subordinate segments thatprecede it are popped from the stack.Antecedents for REs appearing in the segmenton the top of the stack are sought in discoursesegments in the stack below it.
Therefore, incases where a subordinate segment a precedes adominating segment b, a reference to an entity ina by an RE in b is not resolvable.
Specialprovision could be made in order to handle suchcases?e.g., subsequently pushing a on top ofb?but this would violate the overall strategy ofresolving REs appearing in segments currentlyon the top of the stack.The special status given to left satellites in VTaddresses this problem.
For example, one RSTanalysis of (1) proposed by Moser and Moore(1996) is given in Figure 3.
Moser and Moorenote that the relation of an RST nucleus to itssatellite is analogous to the dominates relationproposed by G&S (see also Marcu, 2000).
As asubordinate segment preceding the segment thatdominates it, the satellite is popped from thestack before the dominant segment (the nucleus)is pushed in the stack-based model, and thereforeit is not included among the discourse segmentsthat are searched to resolve co-references.3Similarly, the text in (2), taken from the MUCannotated corpus (Marcu, et al, 1999), wasassigned the RST structure in Figure 4, whichpresents the same problem for the stack-basedapproach: the referent for this  in C2 is to theClinton program in A2, but because it is asubordinate segment, it is no longer on the stackwhen C2 is processed.
(1) A1.
George Bush supports big business.B1.
He's sure to veto House Bill 1711.Figure 3: RST analysis of (1)3Note that Moser and Moore (1996) also propose aninformational RST structure for the same text, inwhich a ??volitional-cause??
relation holds betweenthe nucleus a  and the satellite b, thus providing for ato be on the stack when b is processed.
(2) A2.
Some of the executives also signed letters onbehalf of the Clinton program.B2.
Nearly all of them praised the president forhis efforts to pare the deficit.C2.
This is not necessarily the package I woulddesign,D2.
said Martin Marietta's Mr. Augustine.E2.
But we have to attack the deficit.Figure 4: RST analysis of (2)2.1 ValidationTo validate our claim, we examined 23newspaper texts with widely varying lengths(mean length = 408 words, standard deviation376).
The texts were annotated manually for co-reference relations of identity (Hirschman andChinchor, 1997).
The co-reference relationsdefine equivalence relations on the set of allmarked references in a text.
The texts were alsoannotated manually with discourse structuresbuilt in the style of Mann and Thompson (1988).Each analysis yielded an average of 52elementary discourse units.
Details of theannotation process are given in (Marcu et al,1999).Six percent of all co-references in the corpus areto left satellites.
If only co-references pointingoutside the unit in which they appear (inter-unitreferences) are considered, the rate increases to7.76%.
Among these cases, two possibilitiesexist: either the reference is unresolvable usingthe stack-based method because the unit inwhich the referent appears has been popped fromthe stack, or the stack-based algorithm finds acorrect referent in an earlier unit that is still onthe stack.
Twenty-two percent (2.38% of all co-referring expressions in the corpus) of thereferents that VT finds in left satellites fall intoB1A1evidenceA2-B2backgroundelaboration-additionA2 B2C2-D2-E2antithesisC2-D2attributionC2 D2E2the first category.
For example, in text fragment(3), taken from the MUC corpus, the co-referential equivalence class for the pronoun hein C3 includes Saloman Brothers analyst JeffCanin in B3 and he in A3.
The RST analysis ofthis fragment in Figure 5 shows that both A3 andB3 are left satellites.
A stack-based approachwould not find either antecedent for he in C3,since both A3 and B3 are popped from the stackbefore C3 is processed.
(3) A3.
Although the results were a little lighter thanthe 49 cents a share he hoped for,B3.
Salomon Brothers analyst Jeff Canin saidC3.
he was pleased with Sun's gross margins forthe quarter.Figure 5: RST analysis of (3)In cases where stack-based approaches find a co-referent (although not the most recentantecedent) elsewhere in the stack, it makessense to compare the effort required by the twomodels to establish correct co-referential links.That is, we assume that from a computationalperspective (and, presumably a psycholinguisticone as well), the closer an antecedent is to thereferential expression to be resolved, the better.We have shown elsewhere (Cristea et al, 2000)that VT, compared to linear models, requiressignificantly less effort for DRAs of any size.We use a similar strategy here to compute theeffort required by VT and stack-based models.DRAs for both models are treated as orderedlists.
For example, text fragment (4) reflects theset of units on the stack at a given point inprocessing one of the MUC texts; units D4 andE4, in brackets, are left satellites and thereforenot available using the stack-based model, butvisible using VT. To determine the correctantecedent of Mr. Clinton in F4 using the stack-based model, it is necessary to search backthrough 3 units (C4, B4, A4) to find the referentPresident Clinton.
In contrast, using VT, wesearch back only 1 unit to D4.
(4) A4.
A group of top corporate executives urgedCongress to pass President Clinton's deficit-reduction plan,B4.
declaring that it is superior to the onlyapparent alternative: more gridlock.C4.
Some of the executives who attendedyesterday's session weren't a surprise.
[ D4.
Tenneco Inc. Chairman Michael Walsh, forinstance, is a staunch Democrat whoprovided an early endorsement for Mr.Clinton during the presidential campaign.E4.
Xerox Corp.'s Chairman Paul Allaire wasone of the few top corporate chief executiveofficers who contributed money to theClinton campaign.
]F4.
And others, such as Atlantic Richfield Co.Chairman Lodwrick M. Cook and ZenithElectronics Corp. Chairman Jerry Pearlman,have also previously voiced their approval ofMr.
Clinton's economic strategy.We compute the effort e(M,a,DRAk) of a modelM to determine correct co-referential links withrespect to a referential expression a in unit u,given a DRA of size k (DRAk(u)) is given by thenumber of units between u and the first unit inDRAk that contains a co-referential expression ofa.
The effort e(M,C,k) of a model M to determinecorrect co-referential links for all referentialexpressions in a corpus of texts C using DRAs ofsize k is computed as the sum of the effortse(M,a,DRAk) of all referential expressions awhere VT finds the co-reference of a in a leftsatellite.
Since co-referents found in units thatare not left satellites will be identical for bothVT and stack-based models, the difference ineffort between the two models depends only onco-referents found in left satellites.Figure 6 shows the VT and stack-based effortscomputed over referential expressions resolvedby VT in left satellites and k = 1 to 12.Obviously, for a given k and a given referent a,that no co-reference exists in the units of thecorresponding DRAk  In these cases, we considerB3-C3attributionconcessionA3B3 C3the effort to be equal to k. As a result, for small kthe effort required to establish co-referentiallinks is similar for both models, because bothcan establish only a limited number of links.However, as k increases, the effort computedover the entire corpus diverges, with VTperforming consistently better than the stack-based model.Figure 6: Effort required by VT and stack-basedmodelsNote that in some cases, the stack-based modelperforms better than VT, in particular for smallk.
This occurs when VT searches back through nadjacent left satellites, where n > 1, to find a co-reference, but a co-referent is found using thestack-based method by searching back m non-left satellite units, where m < n. This would bethe case, if for instance, VT first found a co-referent for Mr. Clinton In text (4) in D4 (2 unitsaway), but the stack-based model found a co-referent in C4 (1 unit away since the leftsatellites are not on the stack).In our corpus, 15% of the co-references found inleft satellites by VT required less effort using thestack-based method, whereas VT out-performedthe stack-based method 23% of the time.
In themajority of cases (62%), the two modelsrequired the same level of effort.
However, all ofthe cases in which the stack-based modelperformed better are for small k (k<4), and theaverage difference in distance (in units) is 1.25.In contrast, VT out-performs the stack-basedmodel for cases ranging over all values of k inour experiment (1 to 12), and the averagedifference in distance is 3.8 units.
At k=4, VTcan determine all the co-referents in our corpus,whereas the stack-based model requires DRAs ofup to 12 units to resolve them all.
This accountsfor the marked divergence in effort shown inFigure 6 as k  increases.
So, despite the minordifference in the percentage of cases where VTout-performs the stack-based model, VT has thepotential to significantly reduce the search spacefor co-referential links.2.2 ExceptionsWe have also examined the exceptions, i.e., co-referential links that VT and stack-based modelscannot determine correctly.
Because of theequivalence of the stack contents for left-balanced discourse trees, there is no case inwhich the stack-based model finds a referentwhere VT does not.
There is, however, a numberof referring expressions for which neither VTnor the stack-based model finds a co-referent.
Inthe corpus of MUC texts we consider, 12.3% ofinter-unit references fall into this category, or9.3% of the references in the corpus if weinclude intra-unit references.Table 1 provides a summary of the types ofreferring expressions for which co-referents arenot found in our corpus?i.e., no antecedentexists, or the antecedent appears outside theDRA.4 We show the percentage of REs in ourcorpus for which VT (and the stack-based modelas well, since all units in the DRA computedaccording to VT are in the DRA computed usingthe stack-based model) fails to find anantecedent, and the percentage of REs for whichVT finds a co-referent (in a left satellite) but thestack-based model does not.4Our calculations are made based on the RSTanalysis of the MUC data, in which we detected asmall number of structural errors.
Therefore, thevalues given here are not absolute but rather providean indication of the relative distribution of RE types.02 04 06 08 01001201 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 1 0 1 1 1 2DRA length (k)Numberofco-refsStackVTWe consider four types of REs:(1) Pragmatic references, which refer to entitiesthat can be assumed part of generalknowledge, such as the Senate, the key in thephrase lock them up and throw away the key,or our in the phrase our streets.
(2) Proper nouns, such as Mr. Gerstner orSenator Biden.
(3) Common nouns, such as the steelmaker, theproceeds, or the top job.
(4) PronounsFollowing (Gundel, et al, 1993), we considerthat the evoking power of each of these types ofREs decreases as we move down the list.
That is,pragmatic references are easily understoodwithout an antecedent; proper nouns and nounphrases less so, and are typically resolved byinference over the context.
On the other hand,pronouns have very poor evoking power, andtherefore a message emitter employs them onlywhen s/he is certain that the structure of thediscourse allows for easy recuperation of theantecedent in the message receiver's memory.5Except for the cases where a pronoun can beunderstood without an antecedent (e.g., our inour streets), it is virtually impossible to use apronoun to refer to an antecedent that is outsidethe DRA.Type of RE VT Stack-basedpragmatic 56.3% 0.0%proper nouns 22.7% 26.1%common nouns 16.0% 39.1%pronouns 5.0% 34.8%Table 1: Exceptions for VT and stack-based modelsThe alignment of the evoking power ofreferential expressions with the percentage ofexceptions for both models shows that thepredictions made by VT relative to DRAs arefundamentally correct--that is, their prevalencecorresponds directly to their respective evoking5Ideally, a psycho-linguistic study of reading times toverify the claim that referees outside the DRA aremore difficult to process would be in order.powers.
On the other hand, the almost equaldistribution of exceptions over RE types for thestack-based model shows that it is less reliablefor determining DRAs.Note that in all VT exceptions for pronouns, theRST attribution relation is involved.
Textfragment (5) and the corresponding RST tree(Figure 7) shows the typical case:(5) A5.
A spokesman for the company said,B5.
Mr. Bartlett?s promotion reflects the currentemphasis at Mary Kay on internationalexpansion.C5.
Mr. Bartlett will be involved in developingthe international expansion strategy,D5.
he saidThe antecedent for he in D5 is a spokesman forthe company in A5, which, due to the nuclear-satellite relations, is inaccessible on the vein.Our results suggest that annotation of attributiverelations needs to be refined, possibly by treatingX said and the attributed quotation as a singleunit.
If this were done, the vein expressionwould allow appropriate access.Figure 7: RST analysis of (5)2.3 SummaryIn sum, VT provides a more natural account ofreferential accessibility than the stack-basedmodel.
In cases where the discourse structure isnot left-polarized, at least one satellite precedesits nucleus in the discourse and is therefore itsleft sibling in the binary discourse tree.
The veindefinition formalizes the intuition that in asequence of units a b c, where a and c  aresatellites of b, b can refer to entities in a (its leftsatellite), but the subsequent right satellite, c,cannot refer to a due to the interposition ofnuclear unit b--or, if such a reference exists, it isA5-B5elaborationattributionA5 B5C5-D5attributionD5C5harder to process.
In stack-based approaches toreferentiality, such configurations poseproblems: because b dominates a, in order toresolve potential references from b to a, b mustappear below a on the stack even though it isprocessed after a.
Even if the processingdifficulties are overcome, this situation leads tothe postulation of cataphoric references when asatellite precedes its nucleus, which is counter-intuitive.3 VT and Structural AmbiguityThe fact that VT considers only the nuclear-satellite distinction and ignores rhetoricallabeling has practical ramifications for anaphoraresolution systems that rely on discoursestructure to determine the DRA for a given RE.
(Marcu, et al, 1999) show that over a corpus oftexts drawn from MUC newspaper texts, theWall Street Journal corpus, and the BrownCorpus, reliable agreement among annotators isconsistently obtained for discourse segmentationand assignment of nuclear-satellite status, whileagreement on rhetorical labeling was lessreliable (statistically significant for only theMUC texts).
This means that even when thereexist differences in rhetorical labeling, veinexpressions can be computed and used todetermine DRAs.VT also has ramifications for evaluating theviability of different structural representationsfor a given text, at least for the purposes ofreference resolution.
Like syntactic parsing,discourse parsing typically yields severalinterpretations, and one of the a priori tasks forfurther analysis of the parsed texts is to chooseone from among potentially several alternativestructures.
Marcu (1996) showed that using onlyrhetorical relations, as many as five differentstructures can be identified for some texts.Considering intention-based relations can yieldeven more alternatives.
For anaphora resolution,the choice of one structure over another mayhave significant impact.
For example, an RSTtree for (6) using rhetorical relations is given inFigure 8; Figure 9 shows another RST tree forthe same text, using intention-based relations.
Ifwe compute the vein expressions for bothrepresentations, we see that the vein for segmentC6 in the intentional representation is <A6 B6C6>, whereas in the rhetorical representation, thevein is <(B6), C6>.
That is, under the constraintsimposed by VT, John  is not available as areferent for he in C6 in the rhetorical version,although J o h n  is clearly the appropriateantecedent.
Interestingly, the intention-basedanalysis is skewed to the right and thus is a"better" representation according to the criteriaoutlined in (Marcu, 1996); it also eliminates theleft-satellite that was shown to pose problems forstack-based approaches.
It is therefore likely thatthe intention-based analysis is "better" for thepurposes of anaphora resolution.
(6) A6.
Tell John to bring the car home by 5.B6.
That way I can get to the store before itcloses.C6.
Then he can finish the bookshelves tonight.Figure 8: RST tree for text (6), using rhetoricalrelationsFigure 9: RST tree for text (6), using intention-basedrelationsConclusionVeins Theory is based on established notions ofdiscourse structure: hierarchical organization, asin the stack-based model and RST's treestructures, and dominance or nuclear/satellitemotivationB6-C6motivationB6 C6A6A6-B6conditionconditionA6 B6C6relations between discourse segments.
As such,VT captures and formalizes intuitions aboutdiscourse structure that run through the currentliterature.
VT also explicitly recognizes thespecial status of the left satellite for discoursestructure, which has not been adequatelyaddressed in previous work.In this paper we have shown how VT addressesthe left satellite problem, and how VT can beused to address various issues of structuralambiguity.
VT predicts that references notresolved in the DRA of the unit in which itappears are more difficult to process, bothcomputationally and cognitively; by looking atcases where VT fails we determine that thisclaim is justified.
By comparing the types ofreferring expressions for which VT and thestack-based model fail, we also show that VTprovides a better model for determining DRAs.AcknowledgementsWe thank Daniel Marcu for providing us withthe RST annotated MUC corpus, and ValentinTablan for developing part of the software thatenabled us to process the data.ReferencesAzzam S., Humphreys K. and Gaizauskas R.(1998).
Evaluating a Focus-Based Approach toAnaphora Resolution.
Proceedings ofCOLING-ACL?98, 74-78.Cristea D., Ide N., and Romary L. (1998).
VeinsTheory: A Model of Global DiscourseCohesion and Coherence.
Proceedings ofCOLING-ACL?98, 281-285.Cristea D., Ide N., Marc, D., and Tablan V.(2000).
An Empirical Investigation of theRelation Between Discourse Structure and Co-Reference.
Proceedings of COLING 2000,208-214.Fox B.
(1987).
Discourse Structure andAnaphora.
Written and ConversationalEnglish.
No 48 in Cambridge Studies inLinguistics, Cambridge University Press.Grosz B. and Sidner C. (1986).
Attention,Intention and the Structure of Discourse.Computational Linguistics, 12, 175-204.Gundel J., Hedberg N. and Zacharski R.  (1993).Cognitive Status and the Form of ReferringExpressions.
Language, 69:274-307.Hahn U. and Str?be M. (1997).
Centering in-the-large: Computing referential discoursesegments.
Proceedings of ACL-EACL?97, 104-111.Hirschman L. and Chinchor N. (1997).
MUC-7Co-reference Task Definition.Mann, W.C. and Thompson S.A. (1988).Rhetorical structure theory: A theory of textorganization, Text, 8:3, 243-281.Marcu D., Amorrortu E. and Romera M. (1999).Experiments in Constructing a Corpus ofDiscourse Trees.
Proceedings of the ACL?99Workshop on Standards and Tools forDiscourse Tagging.Marcu D. (2000).
Extending a Formal andComputational Model of Rhetorical StructureTheory with Intentional Structures ?
la Groszand Sidner.
Proceedings of COLING 2000,523-29.Marcu D. (1999).
A Formal and ComputationalSynthesis of Grosz and Sidner's and Mann andThompson's theories.
Workshop on Levels ofRepresentation in Discourse, 101-108.Marcu D. (1996).
Building Up RhetoricalStructure Trees.
Proceedings of the ThirteenthNational Conference on Artificial Intelligence,vol.
2, 1069-1074.Moser M. and Moore J.
(1996).
Towards aSynthesis of Two Accounts of DiscourseStructure.
Computational Linguistics, 18(4):537-544.Sidner C. (1981).
Focusing and the Interpretationof Pronouns.
Computational Linguistics,7:217-231.
