The State of the Art in Thai Language ProcessingVirach Sornlertlamvanich, Tanapong Potipiti, Chai Wutiwiwatchai and Pradit MittrapiyanurukNational Electronics and Computer Technology Center (NECTEC),National Science and Technology Development Agency,  Ministry of Science and Technology Environment.22nd Floor Gypsum Metropolitan Tower 539/2 Sriayudhya Rd.
Rajthevi Bangkok 10400 Thailand.Email: {virach, tanapong, chai}@nectec.or.th, pmittrap@notes.nectec.or.thAbstractThis paper reviews the current state of tech-nology and research progress in the Thailanguage processing.
It resumes the charac-teristics of the Thai language and the ap-proaches to overcome the difficulties in eachprocessing task.1 Some Problematic Issues in the ThaiProcessingIt is obvious that the most fundamental semanticunit in a language is the word.
Words are ex-plicitly identified in those languages with wordboundaries.
In Thai, there is no word boundary.Thai words are implicitly recognized and inmany cases, they depend on the individualjudgement.
This causes a lot of difficulties in theThai language processing.
To illustrate theproblem, we employed a classic English exam-ple.The segmentation of  ?
GODISNOWHERE?.No.
Segmentation Meaning(1) God is now here.
God is here.
(2) God is no where.
God doesn?t exist.
(3) God is nowhere.
God doesn?t exist.With the different segmentations, (1) and (2)have absolutely opposite meanings.
(2) and 3are ambiguous that nowhere is one word or twowords.
And the difficulty becomes greatly ag-gravated when unknown words exist.As a tonal language, a phoneme with differ-ent tone has different meaning.
Many uniqueapproaches are introduced for both the tone gen-eration in speech synthesis research and tonerecognition in speech recognition research.These difficulties propagate to many levels inthe language processing area such as lexical ac-quisition, information retrieval, machine trans-lation, speech processing, etc.
Furthermore thesimilar problem also occurs in the levels of sen-tence and paragraph.2 Word and Sentence SegmentationThe first and most obvious problem to attack isthe problem of word identification and segmen-tation.
For the most part, the Thai languageprocessing relies on manually created dictionar-ies, which have inconsistencies in defining wordunits and limitation in the quantity.
[1] proposeda word extraction algorithm employing C4.5wit  some string features such as entropy andmutual information.
They reported a result of85% in precision and 50% in recall measures.For word segmentation, the longest matching,maximal matching and probabilistic segmenta-tion had been applied in the early research [2],[3].
However, these approaches have somelimitations in dealing with unknown words.More advanced techniques of word segmenta-tion captured many language features such ascontext words, parts of speech, collocations andsemantics [4], [5].
These reported about 95-99 %of accuracy.
For sentence segmentation, the tr-gram model was adopted and yielded 85% ofaccuracy [6].3 Machine TranslationCurrently, there is only one machinetranslation system available tothe public, called ParSit (http://www.links.nectec.or.th/services/parsit),   it is a serviceof English-to-Thai webpage translation.
ParSiTis a collaborative work of NECTEC, Thailandand NEC, Japan.
This system is based on an in-terlingual approach MT and the translation accu-racy is about 80%.
Other approaches such asgenerate-and-repair [7] and sentence patternmapping have been also studied [8].4 Language ResourcesThe only Thai text corpus available for researchuse is the ORCHID corpus.
ORCHID is a 9-MBThai part-of-speech tagged corpus initiated byNECTEC, Thailand and Communications Re-search Laboratory, Japan.
ORCHID is availableat http://www.links.nectec.or.th /orchid.5 Research in Thai OCRFrequently used Thai characters are about 80characters, including alphabets, vowels, tonemarks, special marks, and numerals.
Thai writ-ing are in 4 levels, without spaces betweenwords, and the problem of similarity amongmany patterns has made research challenging.Moreover, the use of English and Thai in generalThai text creates many more patterns whichmust be recognized by OCR.For more than 10 years, there has been a con-siderable growth in Thai OCR research,especially for ?printed character?
task.
The earlyproposed approaches focused on structuralmatching and tended towards neural-network-based algorithms with input for some specialcharacteristics of Thai characters e.g., curves,heads of characters, and placements.
At least 3commercial products have been launched in-cluding ?ArnThai?
by NECTEC, which claimsto achieve 95% recognition performance onclean input.
Recent technical improvement ofArnThai has been reported in [9].
Recently, fo-cus has been changed to develop system that aremore robust with any unclean scanning input.The approach of using more efficient features,fuzzy algorithms, and document analysis is re-quired in this step.At the same time, ?Offline Thai handwrittencharacter recognition?
task has been investigatedbut is only in the research phase of isolatedcharacters.
Almost all proposed engines wereneural network-based with several styles of in-put features [10], [11].
There has been a smallamount of research on ?Online handwrittencharacter recognition?.
One attempt was pro-posed by [12], which was also neural network-based with chain code input.6 Thai Speech TechnologyRegarding speech, Thai, like Chinese, is a tonallanguage.
The tonal perception is important tothe meaning of the speech.
The research cur-rently being done in speech technology can bedivided into 3 major fields: (1) speech analysis,(2) speech recognition and (3) speech synthesis.Most of the research in (1) done by the linguistsare on the basic study of Thai phonetics e.g.
[13].In speech recognition, most of the currentresearch [14] focus on the recognition of isolatedwords.
To develop continuous speech recogni-tion, a large-scale speech corpus is needed.
Thstatus of practical research on continuous speechrecognition is in its initial step with at least onepublished paper [15].
In contrast to westernspeech recognition, topics specifying tonal lan-guages or tone recognition have been deeplyresearched as seen in many papers e.g., [16].For text-to-speech synthesis, processing theidiosyncrasy of Thai text and h ling the tonesi terplaying with intonation are the topics thatmake the TTS algorithm for the Thai languagedifferent from others.
In the research, the firstsu cessful system was accomplished by [14] andlater by NECTEC [15].
Both systems employthe same synthesis technique based on the con-aten tion of demisyllable inventory units.R ferences[1] V. Sornlertlamvanich, T. Potipiti and T. Charoenporn.
Auto-matic Corpus-Based Thai Word Extraction with the C4.5Learning Algorithm.
In forthcoming Proceedings of COLING2000.
[2] V. Sornlertlamvanich.
Word Segmentation for Thai in MachineTranslation System Machine Translation.
N ti al Electronicsand Computer Technology Center, Bangkok.
pp.
50-56, 1993.
(in Thai).
[3] A. Kawtrakul, S. Kumtanode, T. Jamjunya nd A. Jewriyavech.Lexibase Model for Writing Production Assistant System.
InProceedings of the Symposium on Natural Language Processingin Thailand, 1995.
[4] S. Meknavin, P. Charoenpornsawat and B. Kijsirikul.
FeaturedBased Thai Word Segmentation.
In Proceedings of NaturalLanguage Processing Pacific Rim Symposium, pp.
41-46, 1997.
[5] A. Kawtrakul, C. Thumkanon, P. Varasarai and M. Sukta-rachan.
Autmatic Thai Unknown Word Recognition.
I  Proceed-ings of Natural Language Processing Pacific Rim Symposium,pp.
341-347, 1997.
[6] P. Mitrapiyanurak and V. Sornlertlamvanich.
The AutomaticThai Sentence Extraction.
In Proceedings of the Fourth Sympo-sium on Natural Language Processing, pp.
23-28, May 2000.
[7] K. Naruedomkul and N. Cercone.
Generate and RepairMachine Translation.
I  Proceedings of the Fourth Symposiumon Natural Language Processing, pp.
63-79, May 2000.
[8] K. Chancharoen and B. Sirinaowakul.
English Thai MachineTranslation Using Sentence Pattern Mapping.
In Proceedings ofthe Fourth Symposium on Natural Language Processing, pp.
29-36, May 2000.
[9] C. Tanprasert and T. Koanantakool.
Thai OCR: A Neural Net-work Application.
I  Proceedings of IEEE Region Ten Confer-ence, vol.1, pp.90-95, November 1996.
[10] I. Methasate, S. Jitapankul, K. Kiratiratanaphung and W.Unsiam.
Fuzzy Feature Extraction for Thai Handwritten Char-acter Recognition.
I  Proceedings of the Forth Symposium onNatural Language Processing, pp.136-141, May 2000.
[11] P. Phokharatkul and C. Kimpan.
Handwritten Thai CharacterRecognition using Fourior Descriptors and Genetic Neural Net-works.
In Proceedings of the Fourth Symposium on NaturalLanguage Processing, pp.108-123, May 2000.
[12] S. Madarasmi and P. Lekhachaiworakul.
Customizable OnlineThai-English Handwriting Recognition.
In Proceedings of theForth Symposium on Natural Language Processing, pp.142-153,May 2000.
[13] J. T. Gandour, S. Potisuk and S. Dechongkit.
Tonal Coarticu-lation in Thai, Journal of Phonetics, vol 22, pp.477-492, 1994.
[14] S. Luksaneeyanawin, et al A Thai Text-to-Speech System.
InProceedings of Fourth NECTEC Conference, pp.65-78, 1992.
(inThai).
[15] P. Mittrapiyanuruk, C. Hansakunbuntheung, V. Tesprasit andV.
Sornlertlamvanich.
Improving Naturalness of Thai Text-to-Speech Synthesis by Prosodic Rule.
In forthcoming Proceedingsof ICSLP2000.
[16] S. Jitapunkul, S. Luksaneeyanawin, V. Ahkuputra, C. Wuti-wiwatchai.
Recent Advances of Thai Speech Recognition inThailand.
In Proceedings of IEEE Asia-Pacific conference onCircuits and  Systems,  pp.173-176, 1998.
