A Computational Approach to Zero-pronouns inSpanishAntonio Ferr?ndez and Jes?s PeralDept.
Languages and Information Systems, University of AlicanteCarretera San Vicente S/N03080 ALICANTE, Spain{antonio, jperal}@dlsi.ua.esAbstractIn this paper, a computational approach forresolving zero-pronouns in Spanish texts isproposed.
Our approach has been evaluatedwith partial parsing of the text and theresults obtained show that these pronounscan be resolved using similar techniques thatthose used for pronominal anaphora.Compared to other well-known baselines onpronominal anaphora resolution, the resultsobtained with our approach have beenconsistently better than the rest.IntroductionIn this paper, we focus specifically on theresolution of a linguistic problem for Spanishtexts, from the computational point of view:zero-pronouns in the ?subject?
grammaticalposition.
Therefore, the aim of this paper is notto present a new theory regarding zero-pronouns, but to show that other algorithms,which have been previously applied to thecomputational resolution of other kinds ofpronoun, can also be applied to resolve zero-pronouns.The resolution of these pronouns isimplemented in the computational system calledSlot Unification Parser for Anaphora resolution(SUPAR).
This system, which was presented inFerr?ndez et al (1999), resolves anaphora inboth English and Spanish texts.
It is a modularsystem and currently it is being used forMachine Translation and Question Answering,in which this kind of pronoun is very importantto solve due to its high frequency in Spanishtexts as this paper will show.We are focussing on zero-pronouns inSpanish texts, although they also appear in otherlanguages, such as Japanese, Italian andChinese.
In English texts, this sort of pronounoccurs far less frequently, as the use of subjectpronouns is generally compulsory in thelanguage.
While in other languages, zero-pronouns may appear in either the subject?s orthe object?s grammatical position, (e.g.Japanese), in Spanish texts, zero-pronouns onlyappear in the position of the subject.In the following section, we present asummary of the present state-of-the-art for zero-pronouns resolution.
This is followed by adescription of the process for the detection andresolution of zero-pronouns.
Finally, we presentthe results we have obtained with our approach.1 BackgroundZero-pronouns have already been studied inother languages, such as Japanese, (e.g.
Nakaiwaand Shirai (1996)).
They have not yet beenstudied in Spanish texts, however.
Among thework done for their resolution in differentlanguages, nevertheless, there are several pointsthat are common for Spanish.
The first point isthat they must first be located in the text, andthen resolved.
Another common point among,they all employ different kinds of knowledge(e.g.
morphologic or syntactic) for theirresolution.
Some of these works are based on theCentering Theory (e.g.
Okumura and Tamura(1996)).
Other works, however, distinguishbetween restrictions and preferences (e.g.Lappin and Leass (1994)).
Restrictions tend tobe absolute and, therefore, discard any possibleantecedents, whereas preferences tend to berelative and require the use of additional criteria,i.e.
heuristics that are not always satisfied by allanaphors.
Our anaphora resolution approachbelongs to the second group.In computational processing, semantic anddomain information is computationallyinefficient when compared to other kinds ofknowledge.
Consequently, current anaphoraresolution methods rely mainly on restrictionsand preference heuristics, which employinformation originating from morpho-syntacticor shallow semantic analysis, (see Mitkov(1998) for example).
Such approaches,nevertheless, perform notably well.
Lappin andLeass (1994) describe an algorithm forpronominal anaphora resolution that achieves ahigh rate of correct analyses (85%).
Theirapproach, however, operates almost exclusivelyon syntactic information.
More recently,Kennedy and Boguraev (1996) propose analgorithm for anaphora resolution that is actuallya modified and extended version of the onedeveloped by Lappin and Leass (1994).
It worksfrom a POS tagger output and achieves anaccuracy rate of 75%.2 Detecting zero-pronounsIn order to detect zero-pronouns, the sentencesshould be divided into clauses since the subjectcould only appear between the clauseconstituents.
After that, a noun-phrase (NP) or apronoun that agrees in person and number withthe clause verb is sought, unless the verb isimperative or impersonal.As we are also working on unrestricted textsto which partial parsing is applied, zero-pronouns must also be detected when we do notdispose of full syntactic information.
InFerr?ndez et al (1998), a partial parsing strategythat provides all the necessary information forresolving anaphora is presented.
That studyshows that only the following constituents werenecessary for anaphora resolution: co-ordinatedprepositional and noun phrases, pronouns,conjunctions and verbs, regardless of the orderin which they appear in the text.H1 Let us assume that the beginning of a new clause hasbeen found when a verb is parsed and a free conjunctionis subsequently parsed.When partial parsing is carried out, oneproblem that arises is to detect the differentclauses of a sentence.
Another problem is how todetect the zero-pronoun, i.e.
the omission of thesubject from each clause.
With regard to the firstproblem, the heuristic H1 is applied to identify anew clause.
(1)John y Jane llegaron tarde al trabajo porque ?1 sedurmieron (John and Jane were late for work because[they]?
over-slept)1The symbol ?
will always show the position of theIn this particular case, a free conjunctiondoes not imply conjunctions2 that join co-ordinated noun and prepositional phrases.
Itrefers, here, to conjunctions that are parsed inour partial parsing scheme.
For instance, insentence (1), the following sequence ofconstituents is parsed:np(John and Jane), verb(were), freeWord3(late), pp(forwork), conj(because), pron(they), verb(over-slept )Since the free conjunction porque (because)has been parsed after the verb llegaron (were),the new clause with a new verb durmieron(over-slept) can be detected.With reference to the problem aboutdetecting the omission of the subject from eachclause with partial parsing, it is solved bysearching through the clause constituents thatappear before the verb.
In sentence (1), we canverify that the first verb, llegaron (were), doesnot have its subject omitted since there appears anp(John and Jane).
However, there is a zero-pronoun, (they)?, for the second verb durmieron(over-slept).
(2) Pedroj vio a Anak en el parque.
?k Estaba muy guapa(Peterj saw Annk in the park.
[She]?k was very beautiful)When the zero-pronoun is detected, ourcomputational system inserts the pronoun in theposition in which it has been omitted.
Thispronoun will be resolved in the followingmodule of anaphora resolution.
Person andnumber information is obtained from the clauseverb.
Sometimes in Spanish, gender informationof the pronoun can be obtained when the verb iscopulative.
For example, in sentence (2), theverb estaba (was) is copulative, so that itssubject must agree in gender and number withits object whenever the object can have either amasculine or a feminine linguistic form (guapo:masc, guapa: fem).
We can therefore obtaininformation about its gender from the object,guapa (beautiful in its feminine form) whichautomatically assigns it to the feminine genderso the omitted pronoun would have to be sherather than he.
Gender information can beobtained from the object of the verb with partialomitted pronoun.2For example, it would include punctuation markssuch as a semicolon.3The free words consist of constituents that are notcovered by this partial parsing (e.g.
adverbs).parsing as we simply have to search for a NP onthe right of the verb.3 Zero-pronoun resolutionIn this module, anaphors (i.e.
anaphoricexpressions such as pronominal references orzero-pronouns) are treated from left to right asthey appear in the sentence, since, at thedetection of any kind of anaphor, the appropriateset of restrictions and preferences begins to run.The number of previous sentences consideredin the resolution of an anaphora is determined bythe kind of anaphora itself.
This feature wasarrived at following an in depth study of Spanishtexts.
For pronouns and zero-pronouns, theantecedents in the four previous sentences, areconsidered.The following restrictions are first applied tothe list of candidates: person and numberagreement, c-command4 constraints andsemantic consistency5.
This list is sorted byproximity to the anaphor.
Next, if after applyingthe restrictions there is still more than onecandidate, the preferences are then applied, withthe degree of importance shown in Figure 1.This sequence of preferences (from 1 to 10)stops whenever only one candidate remains afterhaving applied a given preference.
If after all thepreferences have been applied there is still morethan one candidate left, the most repeatedcandidates6 in the text are then extracted fromthe list, and if there is still more than onecandidate, then the candidates that haveappeared most frequently with the verb of theanaphor are extracted from the previous list.Finally, if after having applied all the previouspreferences, there is still more than onecandidate left, the first candidate of the resultinglist (the closest to the anaphor) is selected.The set of constraints and preferencesrequired for Spanish pronominal anaphorapresents two basic differences: a) zero-pronounresolution has the restriction of agreement only4The usage of c-command restrictions on partialparsing is presented in  Ferr?ndez et.
al.
(1998).5Semantic knowledge is only used when working onrestricted texts.6Here, we mean that we first obtain the maximumnumber of repetitions for an antecedent in theremaining list.
After that, we extract the antecedentsthat have this value of repetition from the list.in person and number, (whereas pronominalanaphora resolution requires gender agreementas well), and b) a different set of preferences.1 ) C a n d id a te s  in  th e  s a m e  s e n te n c e  a s  th ea n a p h o r.2 )  C a n d id a te s  in  th e  p re v io u s  s e n te n c e .3 ) P re fe re n c e  fo r  c a n d id a te s  in  th e  s a m es e n te n c e  a s  th e  a n a p h o r a n d  th o s e  th a th a v e  b e e n  th e  s o lu t io n  o f  a  z e ro -p ro n o u n  inth e  s a m e  s e n te n c e  a s  th e  a n a p h o r.4 )  P re fe re n c e  fo r  p ro p e r  n o u n s  o r  in d e f in iteN P s .5 )  P re fe re n c e  fo r  p ro p e r  n o u n s .6 )  C a n d id a te s  th a t  h a v e  b e e n  re p e a te d  m o reth a n  o n c e  in  th e  te x t .7 )  C a n d id a te s  th a t  h a v e  a p p e a re d  w ith  th ev e rb  o f  th e  a n a p h o r m o re  th a n  o n c e .8 )  P re fe re n c e  fo r  n o u n  p h ra s e s  th a t  a re  n o tin c lu d e d  in  a  p re p o s it io n a l p h ra s e  o r  th o s eth a t  a re  c o n n e c te d  to  a n  In d ire c t  O b je c t .9 ) C a n d id a te s  in  th e  s a m e  p o s it io n  a s  th ea n a p h o r,  w ith  re fe re n c e  to  th e  v e rb  (b e fo reth e  v e rb ) .1 0 )  I f  th e  z e ro -p ro n o u n  h a s  g e n d e rin fo rm a t io n ,  th o s e  c a n d id a te s  th a t  a g re e  ing e n d e r .Figure 1.
Anaphora resolution preferences.The main difference between the two sets ofpreferences is the use of two new preferences inour algorithm: Nos.
3 and 10.
Preference 10 isthe last preference since the POS tagger does notindicate whether the object has both masculineand feminine linguistic forms7 (i.e.
informationobtained from the object when the verb iscopulative).
Gender information must thereforebe considered a preference rather than arestriction.
Another interesting fact is thatsyntactic parallelism (Preference No.
9)continues to be one of the last preferences,which emphasizes the unique problem that arisesin Spanish texts, in which syntactic structure isquite flexible (unlike English).4 Evaluation4.1 Experiments accomplishedOur computational system (SUPAR) has beentrained with a handmade corpus8 with 106 zero-7For example in: Peter es un genio (Peter is agenius), the tagger does not indicate that the objectdoes not have both masculine and feminine linguisticforms.
Therefore, a feminine subject would use thesame form: Jane es un genio (Jane is a genius).Consequently, although the tagger says that the verb,es (is), is copulative, and the object, un genio (agenius) is masculine, this gender could not be used asa restriction for the zero-pronoun in the followingsentence: ?
Es un genio.8This corpus has been provided by our colleagues inpronouns.
This training has mainly supposed theimprovement of the set of preferences, i.e.
theoptimum order of preferences in order to obtainthe best results.
After that, we have carried out ablind evaluation on unrestricted texts.Specifically, SUPAR has been run on twodifferent Spanish corpora: a) a part of theSpanish version of The Blue Book corpus, whichcontains the handbook of the InternationalTelecommunications Union CCITT, publishedin English, French and Spanish, andautomatically tagged by the Xerox tagger, and b)a part of the Lexesp corpus, which containsSpanish texts from different genres and authors.These texts are taken mainly from newspapers,and are automatically tagged by a differenttagger than that of The Blue Book.
The part ofthe Lexesp corpus that we processed contains tendifferent stories related by a sole narrator,although they were written by different authors.Having worked with different genres anddisparate authors, we feel that the applicabilityof our proposal to other sorts of texts is assured.In Figure 2, a brief description of these corporais given.
In these corpora, partial parsing of thetext with no semantic information has been used.Numberof wordsNumber ofsentencesWords persentenceLexesp corpus Text 1 972 38 25.6Text 2 999 55 18.2Text 3 935 34 27.5Text 4 994 36 27.6Text 5 940 67 14Text 6 957 34 28.1Text 7 1025 59 17.4Text 8 981 40 24.5Text 9 961 36 26.7Text 10 982 32 30.7The Blue Book corpus 15,571 509 30.6Figure 2.
Description of the unrestrictedcorpora used in the evaluation.4.2 Evaluating the detection of zero-pronounsTo achieve this sort of evaluation, severaldifferent tasks may be considered.
Each verbmust first be detected.
This task is easilythe University of Alicante, which were required topropose sentences with zero-pronouns.accomplished since both corpora have beenpreviously tagged and manually reviewed.
Noerrors are therefore expected on verb detection.Therefore, a recall9 rate of 100% isaccomplished.
The second task is to classify theverbs into two categories: a) verbs whosesubjects have been omitted, and b) verbs whosesubjects have not.
The overall results on this sortof detection are presented in Figure 3 (success10rate of 88% on 1,599 classified verbs, with nosignificant differences seen between thecorpora).
We should also remark that a successrate of 98% has been obtained in the detection ofverbs whose subjects were omitted, whereasonly 80% was achieved for verbs whose subjectswere not.
This lower success rate is justified,however, for several reasons.
One importantreason is the non-detection of impersonal verbsby the POS tagger.
This problem has been partlyresolved by heuristics such as a set ofimpersonal verbs (e.g.
llover (to rain)), but it hasfailed in some impersonal uses of some verbs.For example, in sentence (3), the verb es (to be)is not usually impersonal, but it is in thefollowing sentence, in which SUPAR wouldfail:(3) ?
Es hora de desayunar ([It]?
is time to have breakfast)Two other reasons for the low success rateachieved with verbs whose subjects were notomitted are the lack of semantic information andthe inaccuracy of the grammar used.
The secondreason is the ambiguity and the unavoidableincompleteness of the grammars, which alsoaffects the process of clause splitting.In Figure 3, an interesting fact can beobserved: 46% of the verbs in these corporahave their subjects omitted.
It shows quiteclearly the importance of this phenomenon inSpanish.
Furthermore, it is even more importantin narrative texts, as this figure shows: 61% withthe Lexesp corpus, compared to 26% with thetechnical manual.
We should also observe thatThe Blue Book has no verbs in either the first orthe second person.
This may be explained by thestyle  of  the   technical   manual,  which  usually9By  ?recall rate?, we mean the number of verbsclassified, divided by the total number of verbs in thetext.10By  ?success rate?, we mean the number of verbssuccessfully classified, divided by the total number ofverbs in the text.Verbs with their subject omitted Verbs with their subject no-omittedFirst person Second person Third person First person Second person Third personTotal %SuccessTotal %SuccessTotal %SuccessTotal %SuccessTotal %SuccessTotal %Success111 100% 42 100% 401 99% 21 81% 3 100% 328 76%20% 7% 73% 7% 1% 92%Lexespcorpus554 (61%) (success rate: 99%) 352 (39%) (success rate: 76%)0 0% 0 0% 180 97% 0 0% 0 0% 513 82%0% 0% 100% 0% 0% 100%BlueBookcorpus180 (26%) (success rate: 97%) 513 (74%) (success rate: 82%)734 (46%) (success rate: 98%) 865 (54%) (success rate: 80%)Total1,599 (success rate: 88%)Figure 3.
Results obtained in the detection of zero-pronouns.consists of a series of isolated definitions, (i.e.many paragraphs that are not related to oneanother).
This explanation is confirmed by therelatively small number of anaphors that arefound in that corpus, as compared to the Lexespcorpus.We have not considered comparing ourresults with those of other published works,since, (as we have already explained in theBackground section), ours is the first study thathas been done specifically for Spanish texts, andthe designing of the detection stage dependsmainly on the structure of the language inquestion.
Any comparisons that might be madeconcerning other languages, therefore, wouldprove to be rather insignificant.4.3 Evaluating anaphora resolutionAs we have already shown in the previoussection, (Figure 3), of the 1,599 verbs classifiedin these two corpora, 734 of them have zero-pronouns.
Only 581 of them, however, are inthird person and will be resolved.
In Figure 4,we present a classification of these third personzero-pronouns, which have been convenientlydivided into three categories: cataphoric,exophoric and anaphoric.
The first category iscomprised of those whose antecedent, i.e.
theclause subject, comes after the verb.
Forexample, in sentence (4) the subject, a boy,appears after the verb compr?
(bought).
(4) ?k Compr?
un ni?ok en el supermercado (A boyk boughtin the supermarket)This kind of verb is quite common inSpanish, as can be seen in this figure (49%).This fact represents one of the main difficultiesfound in resolving anaphora in Spanish: thestructure of a sentence is more flexible than inEnglish.
These represent intonationally markedsentences, where the subject does not occupy itsusual position in the sentence, i.e.
before theverb.
Cataphoric zero-pronouns will not beresolved in this paper, since semanticinformation is needed to be able to discard all oftheir antecedents and to prefer those that appearwithin the same sentence and clause after theverb.
For example, sentence (5) has the samesyntactic structure than sentence (4), i.e.
verb,np, pp, where the subject function of the np canonly be distinguished from the object by meansof semantic knowledge.
(5) ?
Compr?
un regalo en el supermercado ([He]?
boughta present in the supermarket)The second category consists of those zero-pronouns whose antecedents do not appear,linguistically, in the text (they refer to items inthe external world rather than things referred toin the text).
Finally, the third category is that ofpronouns that will be resolved by ourcomputational system, i.e., those whoseantecedents come before the verb: 228 zero-pronouns.
These pronouns would be equivalentto the full pronoun he, she, it or they.AnaphoricCataphoric ExophoricNumber SuccessLexespcorpus171 (42%) 56 (12%) 174 (46%) 78%The BlueBook corpus113 (63%) 13 (7%) 54 (30%) 68%Total 284 (49%) 69 (12%) 228 (39%) 75%Figure 4.
Classification of third person zero-pronouns.The different accuracy results are also shownin Figure 4: A success rate of 75% was attainedfor the 228 zero-pronouns.
By ?successfulresolutions?
we mean that the solutions offeredby our system agree with the solutions offeredby two human experts.For each zero-pronoun there is, on average,355 candidates before the restrictions areapplied, and 11 candidates after restrictions.Furthermore, we repeated the experimentwithout applying restrictions and the successrate was significantly reduced.Since the results provided by other workshave been obtained on different languages, textsand sorts of knowledge (e.g.
Hobbs and Lappinfull parse the text), direct comparisons are notpossible.
Therefore, in order to accomplish thiscomparison, we have implemented some ofthese approaches in SUPAR.
Although some ofthese approaches were not proposed for zero-pronouns, we have implemented them since asour approach they could also be applied to solvethis kind of pronoun.
For example, with thebaseline presented by Hobbs (1977) an accuracyof 49.1% was obtained, whereas, with oursystem, we achieved 75% accuracy.
Theseresults highlight the improvement accomplishedwith our approach, since Hobbs?
baseline isfrequently used to compare most of the workdone on anaphora resolution11.
The reason whyHobbs?
algorithm works worse than ours is dueto the fact that it carries out a full parsing of thetext.
Furthermore, the way to explore thesyntactic tree with Hobbs?
algorithm is not thebest one for the Spanish language since it isnearly a free-word-order language.Our proposal has also been compared withthe typical baseline of morphological agreementand proximity preference, (i.e., the antecedent11In Tetreault (1999), for example, it is comparedwith an adaptation of the Centering Theory by Groszet al (1995), and Hobbs?
baseline out-performs it.that appears closest to the anaphor is chosenfrom among those that satisfy the restrictions).The result is a 48.6% accuracy rate.
Our system,therefore, improves on this baseline as well.Lappin and Leass (1994) has also beenimplemented in our system and an accuracy of64% was attained.
Moreover, in order tocompare our proposal with Centering approach,Functional Centering by Strube and Hahn (1999)has also been implemented, and an accuracy of60% was attained.One of the improvements afforded by ourproposal is that statistical information from thetext is included with the rest of information(syntactic, morphologic, etc.).
Dagan and Itai(1990), for example, developed a statisticalapproach for pronominal anaphora, but theinformation they used was simply the patternsobtained from the previous analysis of the text.To be able to compare our approach to that ofDagan and Itai, and to be able to evaluate theimportance of this kind of information, ourmethod was applied with statisticalinformation12 only.
If there is more than onecandidate after applying statistical information,preference, and then proximity preference areapplied.
The results obtained were lower thanwhen all the preferences are applied jointly:50.8%.
These low results are due to the fact thatstatistical information has been obtained fromthe beginning of the text to the pronoun.
Aprevious training with other texts would benecessary to obtain better results.Regarding the success rates reported inFerr?ndez et al (1999) for pronominalreferences (82.2% for Lexesp, 84% for Spanishversion of The Blue Book, and 87.3% for theEnglish version), are higher than our 75%success rate for zero-pronouns.
This reduction(from 84% to 75%) is due mainly to the lack ofgender information in zero-pronouns.Mitkov (1998) obtains a success rate of89.7% for pronominal references, working withEnglish technical manuals.
It should be pointedout, however, that he used some knowledge thatwas very close to the genre13 of the text.
In our12This statistical information consists of the numberof times that a word appears in the text and thenumber of times that it appears with a verb.13For example, the antecedent indicator sectionheading preference, in which if a NP occurs in theheading of the section, part of which is the currentstudy, such information was not used, so weconsider our approach to be more easilyadaptable to different kinds of texts.
Moreover,Mitkov worked exclusively with technicalmanuals whereas we have worked with narrativetexts as well.
The difference observed is duemainly to the greater difficulty found innarrative texts than in technical manuals whichare generally better written.
In any case, theapplicability of our proposal to different genresof texts seems to have been well proven.Anyway, if the order of application of thepreferences14 is varied to each different text, an80% overall accuracy rate is attained.
This factimplies that there is another kind of knowledge,close to the genre and author of the text thatshould be used for anaphora resolution.ConclusionIn this paper, we have proposed the firstalgorithm for the resolution of zero-pronouns inSpanish texts.
It has been incorporated into acomputational system (SUPAR).
In theevaluation, several baselines on pronominalanaphora resolution have been implemented, andit has achieved better results than either of themhave.As a future project, the authors shall attemptto evaluate the importance of semanticinformation for zero-pronoun resolutions inunrestricted texts.
Such information will beobtained from a lexical tool, (e.g.EuroWordNet), which could be consultedautomatically.
We shall also evaluate ourproposal in a Machine Translation application,where we shall test its success rate by itsgeneration of the zero-pronoun in the targetlanguage, using the algorithm described in Peralet al (1999).ReferencesIdo Dagan and Alon Itai (1990) Automaticprocessing of large corpora for the resolution ofanaphora references.
In Proceedings of the 13thsentence, it is considered to be the preferredcandidate.14The difference between  the individual sets ofpreferences is  the degree of  importance of thepreferences for proper nouns and syntacticparallelism.International Conference on ComputationalLinguistics, COLING (Helsinki, Finland).Antonio Ferr?ndez, Manuel Palomar and LidiaMoreno (1998) Anaphora resolution in unrestrictedtexts with partial parsing.
In Proceedings of the 36thAnnual Meeting of the Association forComputational Linguistics and 17th InternationalConference on Computational Linguistics,COLING - ACL (Montreal, Canada).
pp.
385-391.Antonio Ferr?ndez, Manuel Palomar and LidiaMoreno (1999) An empirical approach to Spanishanaphora resolution.
To appear in MachineTranslation 14(2-3).Jerry Hobbs (1977) Resolving pronoun references.Lingua, 44. pp.
311-338.Cristopher Kennedy and Bran Boguraev (1996)Anaphora for Everyone: Pronominal Anaphoraresolution without a Parser.
In Proceedings of the16th International Conference on ComputationalLinguistics, COLING (Copenhagen, Denmark).
pp.113-118.Shalom Lappin and Herb Leass (1994) An algorithmfor pronominal anaphora resolution.
ComputationalLinguistics, 20(4).
pp.
535-561.Ruslan Mitkov (1998) Robust pronoun resolutionwith limited knowledge.
In Proceedings of the 36thAnnual Meeting of the Association forComputational Linguistics and 17th InternationalConference on Computational Linguistics,COLING - ACL (Montreal, Canada).
pp.
869-875.Hiromi Nakaiwa and Satoshi Shirai (1996) AnaphoraResolution of Japanese Zero Pronouns with DeicticReference.
In Proceedings of the 16th InternationalConference on Computational Linguistics,COLING (Copenhagen, Denmark).
pp.
812-817.Manabu Okumura and Kouji Tamura (1996) ZeroPronoun Resolution in Japanese Discourse Basedon Centering Theory.
In Proceedings of the 16thInternational Conference on ComputationalLinguistics, COLING (Copenhagen, Denmark).
pp.871-876.Jes?s Peral, Manuel Palomar and Antonio Ferr?ndez(1999) Coreference-oriented Interlingual SlotStructure and Machine Translation.
In Proceedingsof ACL Workshop on Coreference and itsApplications (College Park, Maryland, USA).
pp.69-76.Michael Strube and Udo Hahn (1999) FunctionalCentering ?
Grounding Referential Coherence inInformation Structure.
Computational Linguistics,25(5).
pp.
309-344.
