COMPUTATIONAL LINGUISTICS IN INDIA: AN OVERVIEWAkshar Bharati, Vineet Chaitanya, Rajeev SangalLanguage Technologies Research CentreIndian Institute of Information Technology, Hyderabad{sangal,vc}@iiit.net1.
IntroductionComputational linguistics activities in India are beingcarried out at many institutions.
The activities arecentred around development of machine translationsystems and lexical resources.2.
Machine TranslationFour major efforts on machine translation in India arepresented below.
The first one is from one Indianlanguage to another, the next three are from Englishto Hindi.2.1.
Anusaaraka Systems among Indian languagesIn the anusaaraka systems, the load between thehuman reader and the machine is divided   asfollows: language-based analysis of the text is carriedout by the machine,  and knowledge-based    analysisor interpretation is left to the reader.
The machineuses a dictionary and grammar rules, to produce theoutput.
Most importantly, it does not use worldknowledge to interpret (or disambiguate), as it is anerror prone task and involves guessing or inferringbased on knowledge other than the text.
Anusaarakaaims for perfect "information preservation".
We relaxthe requirement that the output be grammatical.
Infact, anusaaraka output follows the grammar of thesource language (where the grammar rules differ, andcannot be applied with 100 percent confidence).
Thisrequires that the reader undergo a short training toread and understand the output.Among Indian languages, which share vocabulary,grammar, pragmatics, etc.
the task (and the training)is easier.
For example, words in a language areambiguous, but if the two languages are close, one islikely to find a one to one correspondence betweenwords such that the meaning is carried across from thesource language to target language.
For example, for80 percent of the Kannada words in the anusaarakadictionary of 30,000 root words, there is a singleequivalend Hindi word which covers the senses of theoriginal Kannada word.
Similarly, wherever the twolanguages differ in grammatical constructions, eitheran existing construction in the target language whichexpresses the same meaning is used, or a newconstruction is invented (or an old construction usedwith some special notation).
For example, adjectivalparticipial phrases in the south Indian languages aremapped to relative clauses in Hindi with the ?
*?notation (Bharati, 2000).
Similarly, existing words inthe target language may be given wider or narrowermeaning (Narayana, 1994).
Anusaarakas are availablefor use as email servers (anusaaraka, URL).2.2.
Mantra SystemThe Mantra system translates appointment letters ingovernment from English to Hindi.
It is based onsynchronous Tree Adjoining Grammar and uses tree-transfer for translating from English to Hindi.The system is tailored to deal with its narrow subject-domain.
The grammar is specially designed to acceptanalyze and generate sentential constructions in"officialese".
Similarly, the lexicon is suitablyrestricted to deal with meanings of English words asused in its subject-domain.
The system is ready foruse in its domain.2.3.
MaTra SystemThe Matra system is a tool for human aided machinetranslation from English to Hindi for news stories.
Ithas a text categorisation component at the front,which determines the type of news story (political,terrorism, economic, etc.)
before operating on thegiven story.
Depending on the type of news, it uses anappropriate dictionary.
For example, the word ?party?is usually a ?politicalentity?
and not a ?social event?, inpolitical news.The text categorisation component uses word-vectorsand is easily trainable from pre-categorized newscorpus.
The parser tries to identify chunks (such asnoun phrases, verb groups) but does not attempt tojoin them together.
It requires considerable humanassistance in analysing the input.
Another novelcomponent of the system is that given a complexEnglish sentence, it breaks it up into simplersentences, which are then analysed and used togenerate Hindi.
The system is under development andexpected to be ready for use soon (Rao, 1998).2.4.
Anusaaraka System from English to HindiThe English to Hindi anusaaraka system follows thebasic principles of information preservation.
It usesXTAG based super tagger and light dependencyanalyzer developed at University of Pennsylvania[Joshi, 94] for performing the analysis of the givenEnglish text.
It distributes the load on man andmachine in novel ways.
The system produces severaloutputs corresponding to a given input.
The simplestpossible (and the most robust) output is based on themachine taking the load of lexicon, and leaving theload of syntax on man.
Output based on the mostdetailed analysis of the English input text, uses a fullparser and a bilingual dictionary.
The parsing systemis based on XTAG (consisting of super tagger andparser) wherein we have modified them for the task athand.
A user may read  the output  produced after  thefull analysis, but when he finds  that  the  system has"obviously" gone wrong or failed to produce theoutput, he can always switch to a simpler output.3.
Corpora and Lexical Resources3.1 Corpora for Indian LanguagesText Corpora for 12 Indian languages has beenprepared with funding from Ministry of InformationTechnology, Govt.
of India.
Each corpus is of about3-million words, consisting of randomly chosen text-pieces published from 1970 to 1980.
The texts arecategorized into: literature (novel, short story),science, social science, mass media etc.
The corpuscan be used remotely over the net or obtained on CDs(Corpora, URL).3.2 Lexical ResourcesA number of bilingual dictionaries among Indianlanguages have been developed for the purpose ofmachine translation, and are available "freely" underGPL.
Collaborative creation of a very large English toHindi lexical resource is underway.
As a first step,dictionary with 25000 entries with example sentencesillustrating each different sense of a word, has beenreleased on the web (Dictionary, URL).
Currentlywork is going on to refine it and to add contextualinformation for use in the anusaaraka system, byinvolving volunteers.4.
Linguistic Tools and Others4.1.
Morphological AnalyzersMorphological analyzers for 6 Indian languagesdeveloped as part of Anusaaraka systems are availablefor download and use (Anusaaraka,URL).
Sanskritmorphological analyzers have been developed withreasonable coverage based on the Paninian theory byRamanujan and Melkote.4.2 ParsersBesides the parsers mentioned above, a parsingformalism called UCSG identifies clause boundarieswithout using sub-categorization information.4.3 othersSome work has also started on building searchengines.
However, missing are the terminologicaldatabases and thesauri.
Spelling checkers areavailable for many languages.
There is substantialwork based on alternative theoretical models oflanguage analysis.
Most of this work is based onPaninian model (Bharati, 1995).5.
ConclusionsIn conclusion, there is a large computational linguisticactivity in Indian languages, mainly centred aroundmachine translation and lexical resources.
Mostrecently, a number of new projects have been startedfor Indian languages with Govt.
funding, and aregetting off the ground.References:Anusaaraka URL: http://www.iiit.net,http://www.tdil.gov.inBharati, Akshar, and Vineet Chaitanya and RajeevSangal, Natural Language Processing: A PaninianPerspective, Prentice-Hall of India, New Delhi, 1995,Bharati, Akshar, et.al, Anusaaraka: Overcoming theLanguage Barrier in India, To appear in "Anuvad?.
(Available from anusaaraka URL.
)CDAC URL: http://www.cdac.org.inCorpora URL: http://www.iiit.netDictionary URL: http://www.iiit.netNarayana, V. N, Anusarak: A Device to Overcomethe Language Barrier, PhD thesis, Dept.
of CSE,IITKanpur, January 1994.Rao, Durgesh, Pushpak Bhattacharya and RadhikaMamidi, "Natural Language Generation for English toHindi Human-Aided Machine Translation", pp.
179-189, in KBCS-98, NCST, Mumbai.Joshi, A.K.
Tree Adjoining Grammar, In D. Dowtyet.al.
(eds.)
Natural Language Parsing, CambridgeUniversity Press, 1985.Joshi, AK and  Srinivas, B., Disambignation ofSupertags:  Almost Parsing, COLING, 1994.
