Topic-focus and salience*Eva Haji?ov?Faculty of Mathematics and PhysicsCharles UniversityMalostransk?
n?m.
25118 00 Praha, Czech Republichajicova@ufal.mff.cuni.czPetr SgallFaculty of Mathematics and PhysicsCharles UniversityMalostransk?
n?m.
25118 00 Praha, Czech Republicsgall@ufal.mff.cuni.cz*Acknowledgement: The work reported on in this paper has been carried out under the projects GACR 405/96/K214 andMSMT LN00A063.1 Objectives and MotivationMost of the current work on corpus annotation isconcentrated on morphemics, lexical semanticsand sentence structure.
However, it becomesmore and more obvious that attention should andcan be also paid to phenomena that reflect thelinks between a sentence and its context, i.e.
thediscourse anchoring of utterances.
If conceivedin this way, an annotated corpus can be used as aresource for linguistic research not only withinthe limits of the sentence, but also with regard todiscourse patterns.
Thus, the applications of theresearch to issues of information retrieval andextraction may be made more effective; alsoapplications in new domains become feasible, beit to serve for inner linguistic (and literary) aims,such as text segmentation, specification of topicsof parts of a discourse, or for other disciplines.These considerations have been a motivationfor the tectogrammatical (i.e.
underlying, seebelow) tagging done within the PragueDependency Treebank (PDT) to contain alsoattributes concerning certain contextual features,i.e.
the contextual anchoring of word tokens andtheir relationships to their coreferentialantecedents.Along with this enrichment in theintersentential aspect, we do not neglect to payattention to intrasentential issues, i.e.
to sentencestructure, which displays its own featuresoriented towards the contextual potential of thesentence, namely its topic-focus articulation(TFA).In the present paper, we give first an outlineof the annotation scenario of the PDT (Section2), concentrating then on the use of one of thePDT attributes for the specification of the Topicand the Focus (the 'information structure') of thesentence (Section 3).
In Section 4. we presentcertain heuristics that partly are based on TFAand that allow for the specification of thedegrees of salience in a discourse.
Theapplication of these heuristics is illustrated inSection 5.2 Outline of the Prague DependencyTreebankThe Prague Dependency Treebank (PDT) isbeing built on the basis of the Czech NationalCorpus (CNC), which grows rapidly in the rangeof hundreds of millions of word occurrences injournalistic and fiction texts.
The PDT scenariocomprises three layers of annotation:(i) the morphemic (POS) layer with about2000 tags for the highly inflectional Czechlanguage; the whole CNC has been tagged by astochastic tagger (Haji?
and Hladk?
1997;1998,B?hmov?
and Haji?ov?
1999, Hladk?
2000)with a success rate of 95%; the tagger is basedon a fully automatic morphemic analysis ofCzech (Haji?
in press);(ii) a layer of 'analytic' ("surface") syntax(see Haji?
1998): cca 100 000 Czech sentences,i.e.
samples of texts (each randomly chosensample consisting of 50 sentences of a coherenttext), taken from CNC, have been assigneddependency tree structures; every word (as wellas every punctuation mark) has a node of itsown, the label of which specifies its analyticfunction, i.e.
Subj, Pred, Obj, Adv, differentkinds of function words, etc.
(total of 40 values);no nodes are added that are not in the surfaceshape of the sentence (except for the root of thetree, carrying the identification number of thesentence); the sentences from CNC arepreprocessed by a dependency-basedmodification of Collins et al's (1999) automaticparser (with a success rate of about 80%),followed by a manual tagging procedure that issupported by a special user-friendly softwaretool that enables the annotators to work with(i.e.
modify) the automatically derived graphicrepresentations of the trees;(iii) the tectogrammatical (underlying)syntactic layer: tectogrammatical tree structures(TGTSs) are being assigned to a subset of the settagged according to (ii); by now, theexperimental phase has resulted in 20 samples of50 sentences each; the TGTSs, based ondependency syntax, are much simpler thanstructural trees based on constituency(minimalist or other), displaying a much lowernumber of nodes and a more perspicuouspatterning; their basic characteristics are asfollows (a more detailed characterization oftectogrammatics and motivating discussion,which cannot be reproduced here, can be foundin Sgall et al 1986; Haji?ov?
et al 1998):(a) only autosemantic (lexical) words havenodes of their own; function words, as far assemantically relevant, are reflected by parts ofcomplex node labels (with the exception ofcoordinating conjunctions);(b) nodes are added in case of deletions onthe surface level;(c) the condition of projectivity is met (i.e.
nocrossing of edges is allowed);(d) tectogrammatical functions ('functors')such as Actor/Bearer, Patient, Addressee,Origin, Effect, different kinds of Circumstantialsare assigned;(e) basic features of TFA are introduced;(f) elementary coreference links (bothgrammatical and textual) are indicated.Thus, a TGTS node label consists of thelexical value of the word, of its '(morphological)grammatemes' (i.e.
the values of morphologicalcategories), its 'functors' (with a more subtledifferentiation of syntactic relations by means of'syntactic grammatemes' (e.g.
'in', 'at', 'on','under'), of the attribute of ContextualBoundness (see below), and of valuesconcerning intersentential links (see below).3 From Contextual Boundness to theTopic and the Focus of the SentenceThe dependency based TGTSs in PDT allow fora highly perspicuous notation of sentencestructure, including an economicalrepresentation of TFA, understood as one of themain aspects of (underlying) sentence structurealong with all other kinds of semanticallyrelevant information expressed by grammaticalmeans.
TFA is accounted for by one of thefollowing three values of a specific TFAattribute assigned to every lexical(autosemantic) occurrence: t for 'contextuallybound' (prototypically in Topic), c for'contrastive (part of) Topic', or f (?non-bound?,typically in Focus).
The opposition of contextualboundness is understood as the linguisticallystructured counterpart of the distinction between"given" and "new" information, rather than in astraightforward etymological way (see Sgall,Haji?ov?
and Panevov?
1986, Ch.
3).
Ourapproach to TFA, which uses such operationalcriteria of empirical adequateness as thequestion test (with the item corresponding to aquestion word prototypically constituting thefocus of the answer), represents an elaborationof older ideas, discussed especially in Czechlinguistics since V. Mathesius and J. Firbas, inthe sense of an explicit treatment meeting themethodological requirements of formal syntax.The following rules determine theappurtenance of a lexical occurrence to theTopic (T) or to the Focus (F) of the sentence:(a) the main verb (V) and any of its directdependents belong to F iff they carry index f;(b) every item i that does not depend directlyon V and is subordinated to an element of Fdifferent from V, belongs to F (where"subordinated to" is defined as the irreflexivetransitive closure of "depend on");(c) iff V and all items kj directly depending on itcarry index t, then those items kj to which someitems lm carrying f are subordinated are called'proxy foci' and the items lm together with allitems subordinated to one of them belong to F,where 1 ?
j,m;(d) every item not belonging to F accordingto (a) - (c) belongs to T.To illustrate how this approach makes itpossible to analyze also complex sentences asfor their TFA patterns, with neither T nor Fcorresponding to a single constitutent, let uspresent the following example, in which (1') is ahighly simplified linearized TGTS of (1); everydependent item is enclosed in a pair ofparentheses; for the sake of transparency,syntactic subscripts of the parentheses are leftout here, as well as subscripts indicatingmorphological values, with the exception of thetwo which correspond to function words, i.e.Temp and Necess(ity); Fig.
1. presents therespective tree structure, in which three parts ofeach node label are specified, namely the lexicalvalue, the syntactic function (with ACT forActor/Bearer, RSTR for Restrictive,  MANN forManner, and OBJ for Objective), and the TFAvalue:(1) ?esk?
radiokomunikace mus?
v tomtoroce rychle splatit dluh televizn?m div?k?m.This year, Czech Radiocommunications havequickly to pay their debt to the TV viewers.
(1') ((?esk?.f) radiokomunikace.t)    ((tomto.t)Czech    Radiocommunications      thisroce.Temp.t) splatit.Necess.f  (rychle.f)in-year          must-pay             quickly(dluh.f ((televizn?m.f) div?k?m.f))debt TV                  viewersFigure 1.4 Degrees of Salience in a DiscourseDuring the development of a discourse, in theprototypical case, a new discourse referentemerges as corresponding to a lexicaloccurrence that carries the index f; its furtheroccurrences in the discourse carry t and areprimarily guided by the scale of their degrees ofsalience.
This scale, which was discussed byHaji?ov?
and Vrbov?
(1982), has to be reflectedin a description of the semantico-pragmaticlayer of the discourse.
In this sense our approachcan be viewed as pointing to a useful enrichmentof the existing theories of discourserepresentation (cf.
also Kruijffov?
1998,Krahmer 1998; Krahmer and Theune 1999).In the annotation system of PDT, not onlyvalues of attributes concerning sentencestructure are assigned, but also values ofattributes for coreferential links in the discourse,which capture certain features typical for thelinking of sentences to each other and to thecontext of situation and allow for a tentativecharacterization of the discourse pattern in whatconcerns the development of salience degreesduring the discourse.The following attributes of this kind areapplied within a selected part of PDT, called'model collection' (for the time being, essentiallyonly pronouns such as 'on' (he), including itszero form, or 'ten' (this) are handled in this way):COREF: the lexical value of the antecedent,CORNUM: the serial number of the antecedent,CORSNT: if the antecedent in the samesentence: NIL, if not: PREVi for the i-thpreceding sentence.An additional attribute, ANTEC, with itsvalue equal to the functor of the antecedent, isused with the so-called grammatical coreference(relative clauses, pronouns such as 'se' (-self),the relation of control).On the basis of these attributes (and of furtherjudgments, concerning especially associativelinks between word occurrences), it is possibleto study the referential identity of different wordtokens in the flow of the discourse, and thus alsothe development of salience degrees.The following basic rules determining thedegrees of salience (in a preliminaryformulation) have been designed, with x(r)indicating that the referent r has the saliencedegree x, and 1 ?
m,n:(i) if r is expressed by a weak pronoun (orzero) in a sentence, it retains its salience degreeafter this sentence is uttered: n(r) --> n(r);(ii) if r is expressed by a noun (group)carrying f, then n(r) --> 0(r);(iii) if r is expressed by a noun (group)carrying t or c, then n(r) --> 1(r);(iv) if n(r) --> m(r) in sentence S, thenm+2(q) obtains for every referent q that is notitself referred to in S, but is immediatelyassociated with the item r present here1;(v) if r neither is included in S, nor refers toan associated object, then n(r) --> n+2(r).These rules, which have been checked withseveral pieces of English and Czech texts,capture such points as e.g.
the fact that in thethird utterance of Jim met Martin.
Heimmediately started to speak of the old school inSussex.
Jim invited him for lunch the weakpronoun in object can only refer to Martin,whose image has become the most salientreferent by being mentioned in the secondutterance; on the other hand, the use of such apronoun also in the subject (in He invited himfor lunch) would make the reference unclear.Since the only fixed point is that of maximalsalience, our rules technically determine thedegree of salience reduction (indicating 0 as themaximal salience).
Whenever an entity has asalience distinctly higher than all competingentities which can be referred to by the givenexpression, this expression may be used asgiving the addressee a sufficiently clearindication of the reference specification.25 IllustrationsThe development of salience degrees during adiscourse, as far as determined by these rules,may be illustrated on the basis of five sentencetokens (utterances) from PDT, starting from (1),which constitute a segment of a newspaper text(we indicate the numerical values of saliencereduction for every noun token that is a referringexpression).
We present here - similarly as with(1') in Section 3 above - highly simplifiedrepresentations of these sentences, withparentheses for every dependent member andthe symbols t, c, and f for contextual boundness;1 Only immediate associative links are taken into accountfor the time being, such as those between (Czech) crownand money,  or between TV or (its) signal and (its) viewer.2 These tentative rules, which have been presented atseveral occasions (starting with Haji?ov?
and Vrbov?1982) for the aims of a further discussion, still wait for asystematic testing and evaluation, as well as forenrichments and more precise formulations.
These issuesmay find new opportunities now, when e.g.
a comparisonwith the centering theory gets possible and when a large setof annotated examples from continuous texts in PDT isavailable.
An automatic derivation of such features canonly be looked for after the lexical units included get a verycomplex and subtle semantic classification.numbers of the degrees of salience (moreprecisely, of salince reduction) for everyreferring expression are inserted in the sentencesthemselves.
This example should enable thereader to check (at least in certain aspects) thegeneral function of the procedure we use, aswell as the degree of its empirical adequacy inthe points it covers, and also our consistence inassigning the indices.
We are aware of thepreliminary character of our analysis, whichmay and should be enriched in several respects(not to cover only noun groups, to account forpossible episodic text segments, for oral speechwith the sentence prosody, for cases ofdeictically, rather than anaphoricallyconditioned salience, etc.
).We do not reflect several peripheral points,such as the differences between surface wordorder and the scale of CD (underlying WO),mainly caused by the fact that a dependent oftenprecedes its head word on the surface (inmorphemics), although if the dependent has f(as e.g.
rychle (quickly) has in (1)), then itfollows its head under CD (with the exceptionsof focus sensitive particles, cf.
Haji?ov?, Parteeand Sgall 1998); our translations are literal.
(1) ?esk?
radiokomunikace.1 mus?
v tomtoroce.1 rychle splatit dluh.0 televizn?mdiv?k?m.0In this year, Czech Radiocommunicationshave quickly to pay their debt to the TV viewers.
(1') ((?esk?.f) radiokomunikace.t)   ((tomto.t)Czech    Radiocommunications      thisroce.Temp.t) splatit.Necess.f  (rychle.f)in-year          must-pay             quickly(dluh.f ((televizn?m.f) div?k?m.f))debt TV                viewers(2) Jejich.1 vys?la?e.1 dosud pokr?vaj?sign?lem.0 programu.0 ?T.1 2.0 m?n?
ne?-polovinu.0 ?zem?.0 republiky.0.Their transmitters hitherto cover by-signalof-the-program ?T2 less than a-half of-the-territory of-the-Republic.
(2') ((jejich.t) vys?la?e.t) (dosud.t) pokr?vaj?.f(sign?lem.f (programu.f (?T.t (2.f)))) ((m?n?.f(ne?-polovinu.f)) ?zem?.f (republiky.t))(3) Na moravsko-slovensk?m pomez?.1 je?ada m?st.0, kde nezachyt?
ani prvn?
program.0?esk?
televize.1.On the-Moravian-Slovakian borderlinethere-is a-number of-places where (they) do-not-get even the-first program of-Czech Television.
(3') ((na-moravsko-slovensk?m.t) pomez?.t)je.f (?ada.f (m?st.f ((kde.t) (oni.t) (ne.f) zachyt?.f((ani.f) (prvn?.f) program.t ((?esk?.t)televize.t)))))(4) Do rozd?len?.1 federace.1 toti?
sign?l.1zaji?
?ovaly vys?la?e.0 v SR.0.Until the-division of-the-federation as-a-matter-of-fact the-signal.Accusative providedtransmitters.Nominative in S(lovac)R(epublic).
(4') (do-rozd?len?.t (federace.t)) (toti?.t)(sign?l.t) zaji?
?ovaly.t (vys?la?e.f (v-SR.f)).
(5) ?esk?
televize ??d?
urychlenou v?stavbunov?ch vys?la?
?.Czech Television requires quick constructionof-new transmitters.
(5') ((?esk?.t) televize.t) ?
?d?.f((urychlenou.f) v?stavbu.f ((nov?ch.f)vys?la?
?.t))The development of salience reduction of thereferents most frequently mentioned in (1) - (5)is characterized in Tab.
1, which includesnumbers of salience reduction degrees and ofthose rules from Section 3 that are the mainsources of the degrees.
Two further remarksmay be added, concerning details of our analysisthat have not been discussed above and may notbe directly found in the previous publications werefer to: (a) a noun group consisting of a headwith t or c and of one or more adjuncts with fconstitutes a referring expression as a whole, inthe prototypical case, and gets degree 0, if itoccurs in F; this concerns e.g.
the group vys?la?ev SR  (?transmitters in  the Slovac Republic?)
insentence (4), or ?T 2 (CTV 2) in (2); here 2 istreated as an adjunct of CT; (b) the differencebetween the degrees 0 and 1 is not sufficient fora safe choice of reference, so that, e.g., thereference of the pronoun jejich (their) after (1)by itself is indistinct, and only inferencing helpsto establish that ?esk?
radiokomunikace (CzechRadiocommunications) are referred to (viewersnormally do not have transmitters at theirdiposal).after (1) (2) (3) (4) (5)CRC 1 1 3 5 7(iii) (iii) (iv) (v) (v)CTV 3 1 1 2 1(iv) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iii)CTV1 2 2 0 2 3(iv) (iv) (ii) (iv) (iv)CTV2 2 0 2 2 3(iv) (ii) (iv) (iv) (iv)viewer 0 2 2 3 3(ii) (iv) (i) (iv) (iv)sig.
3 0 2 1 3(iv) (ii) (iv) (iii) (iv)CR 3 1 3 3 3(iv) (iii) (iv) (iv) (iv)CSF - - 3 1 3(iv) (iii) (v)terr.
3 0 2 2 4(iv) (ii) (iv) (iv) (v)tr.
- 1 2 0 0(iii) (iv) (ii) (ii)Table 1.Abbreviations:CRC - Czech Radio(tele)communicationsCTV - Czech TVCR - Czech RepublicCSF - (CS) FederationCTV1(2) - 1st (2nd) program of CTVtr.
- transmitterterr.
- territory of CRsig.
- signal of CTVEven with this short piece of discourse, itssegmentation is reflected, if its first subsegment,discussed up to now (sentences (1) - (5)), iscompared with its continuation, i.e.
sentences(6) - (9), given below.
While the first segmentdeals primarily with CTV and its signal (cf.
therelatively high salience of CTV, CTV1, CTV2,RC, signal and viewer  in most parts of thesegment), sentences (6) ?
(9) are devoted tofinancial issues, as can be seen from thefollowing facts: (a) money gets degree 0 after(6), in which it functions as its focus proper (themost dynamic item), (b) Czech crown getsdegree 1 after (7), in which it is an embeddedpart of the focus, and (c) the group financialcoverage gets degree 1 in sentence (8).The continuation is presented here withoutthe TGTSs:(6) Na?e spole?nost m?
?e ?kol splnit, alechyb?j?
n?m pen?ze.Our company can the-task.Accusative fulfil, butis-lacking us.Dative the-money.Nominative.
(7) Letos by v?stavba technick?ho za??zen?
vsedmi lokalit?ch st?la 120 mili?n?
korun, alem?
?eme uvolnit jen 80 mili?n?.This-year, would the-construction of-technicalequipment in seven localities cost 120 millioncrowns, but we-can spend only 80 million.
(8) Proto o finan?n?m zabezpe?en?
jedn?mes ?eskou televiz?, uv?d?
ekonomick?
?editel?esk?ch radiotelekomunikac?
Miroslav Cu?
?n.Therefore about (its) financial coverage we-discuss with Czech Television, states the-economic director of-CzechRadiotelcommunications M. C.(9) Dal?
?ch 62 mili?n?
korun si vy?
?d?v?stavba vys?la??
a p?evad???
sign?lu vpohrani?
?.Further 62 million crowns.Accusative Refl.
will-require the-construction.Nominative of-transmitters and transferrers of-the-signal in the-border-area.6 ConclusionsWe are aware that, along with the rulescharacterized above, there are other factors thathave to be investigated, which are important fordifferent kinds of discourses.
This concernsvarious aspects of the discourse situation, ofdomain knowledge, of specific textual patterns(with episodes, poetic effects, and so on).Factors of these and further kinds can be studiedon the basis of the salience degrees, which aretypical for basic discourse situations.In any case, we may conclude that it is usefulfor a theory of discourse semantics to reflect thedegrees of salience.
This makes it possible todistinguish the reference potential of referringexpressions and thus the connectedness of thediscourse.
Discourse analysis of this kind mayalso be useful for application domains such astext segmentation (in accordance with topics ofindividual segments), or data mining (specifyingtexts in which a given topic is actually treated,rather than being just occasionally mentioned).ReferencesB?hmov?
A. and E. Haji?ov?
(1999).
The PragueDependency Tree Bank I: How much of theunderlying syntactic structure can be taggedautomatically?
The Prague Bulletin ofMathematical Linguistics 71, 5-12.Collins M., Haji?
J., Brill E., Ramshaw L. and C.Tillmann (1999).
A statistical parser for Czech.
In:Proceedings of 37th Annual Meeting of ACL,Cambridge, Mass.
: M.I.T.
Press, 505-512.Haji?
J.
(1998).
Building a syntactically annotatedcorpus: The Prague Dependency Treebank.
In:Issues of Valency and Meaning.
Studies in Honourof Jarmila Panevov?, ed.
by E.
Haji?ov?, 106-132.Prague: Karolinum.Haji?
J.
(in press).
Disambiguation of rich inflection(Computational morphology of Czech).Prague:Karolinum.Haji?
J. and Hladk?
B.
(1997).
Probabilistic and rule-based tagger of an inflective language - acomparison.
In Proceedings of the FifthConference on Applied Natural LanguageProcessing, Washington, D.C., 111-118.Haji?
J. and Hladk?
B.
(1998).
Czech languageprocessing - POS tagging.
In: Proceedings of theFirst International Conference on LanguageResources & Evaluation, Granada.Haji?ov?
E., Partee B. and P. Sgall (1998): Topic-focus articulation, tripartite structures, andsemantic content.
Amsterdam:KluwerHaji?ov?
E. and J. Vrbov?
(1982).
On the role of thehierarchy of activation in the process of naturallanguage understanding.
In: COLING 82.
Ed.
by J.Horeck?.
Amsterdam: North Holland, 107-113.Krahmer E. (1998), Presupposition and anaphora.CSLI Lecture Notes 89.
CSLI, Stanford, CA.Krahmer E. and M. Theune (1999), Efficientgeneration of descriptions in context.
In: R. Kibbleand K. van Deemter (eds.
), Proceedings of theworkshop The Generation of Nominal Expression,associated with the 11th European Summer Schoolin Logic, Language and Information.Kruijff-Korbayov?
I.
(1998): The dynamic potentialof topic and focus: A Praguian approach toDiscourse Representation Theory.
Prague: CharlesUniversity, Faculty of Mathematics and Physics,Ph.D.
dissertation.Sgall P., Haji?ov?
E. and J. Panevov?
(1986): TheMeaning of the Sentence in Its Semantic andPragmatic Aspects, ed.
by J. L. Mey,Dordrecht:Reidel - Prague: Academia.
