Word Order in German:A Formal Dependency Grammar Using a Topological HierarchyKim GerdesLattice, Universit?
Paris 775251 Paris Cedex 05Francekim@linguist.jussieu.frSylvain KahaneLattice, Universit?
Paris 775251 Paris Cedex 05Francesk@ccr.jussieu.frAbstractThis paper proposes a description ofGerman word order including phe-nomena considered as complex,such as scrambling, (partial) VPfronting and verbal pied piping.
Ourdescription relates a syntactic de-pendency structure directly to atopological hierarchy without re-sorting to movement or similarmechanisms.11 IntroductionThe aim of this article is to describe the wordorder of German verbs and their comple-ments.
German word order is not free, butbased on fairly simple rules, forming what isusually called topological model, which sub-divides the sentence into a hierarchy of topo-logical domains that are themselves composedof fields (Vorfeld, Mittelfeld, right bracket?
)(Drach, 1937; Bech, 1955).We start from a syntactic dependency tree, i.e.an unordered tree whose nodes are labeledwith the words of the sentence, and whosebranches are labeled with syntactic relationsamong the words (subject, direct object?
).The syntactic dependency structure only en-codes subcategorization and modification andmust be completed by the communicativestructure (partition into theme/rheme, focus?
),which plays a fundamental role in word order.It permits us to choose among all the differentpossible orders corresponding to a given de-pendency structure.
In this paper we do not1We would like to thank Werner Abraham, TilmanBecker, Ralph Debusmann, Denys Duchier, andStefan M?ller for fruitful discussions.
Particularthanks to Igor Mel'cuk for the inspiration of theparticular status we give to the phrase structure.pursue this problem any further, but havelimited our description to the link betweendependency and topology.
Note that it is fun-damental to our approach that syntacticstructure does not include word order.To get the words in order, we group them in ahierarchy of phrases.
The nature and the posi-tion of these phrases are constrained by ourtopological model.
For instance, a non-finiteverb can open two kinds of topologicalphrases, either a phrase, which we call domain,with positions for all of its dependents, or arestricted phrase, which forms the verb cluster,with no positions for dependents other thanpredicative elements.
These two kinds ofphrases must be placed in very differenttopological positions.The fact that we pass through a (topological)phrase structure in order to relate dependencyand word order distinguishes our approachfrom usual dependency grammars (Mel'cuk &Pertsov, 1987; Br?ker, 1998; Kahane et al,1998; Duchier & Debusmann, 2001).
Thedescription of German word order closest toour analysis is the HPSG grammar of Kathol(1995; see also Reape 1994), who proposeslinearization rules exclusively based on a for-malization of the topological structure.
How-ever, as required by the formalism he uses, aregular phrase structure, which we do not needin our analysis, still underlies the structuresobtained.Our work constitutes a syntactic module whichlinks (unordered) syntactic structures withtopological phrase structures.
Syntactic struc-tures are related to semantic structures,whereas topological phrase structures are re-lated to phonological structures.
In otherwords, our work lies within the scope of thegeneral framework of Meaning-Text-Theory(Mel'cuk 1988), which considers the modelingof a language as a modular (bi-directional)correspondence between meaning and text.
Itmust be clear that, in contrast to X-bar syntax,our topological phrase structure does not rep-resent the syntactic structure of the sentence.Although the dependency information is es-sential in its construction, the phrase structureonly represents topology, i.e.
the surfacegrouping of the words.
Topological phrasescan be directly related to prosodic groups, andtopology represents an intermediate level be-tween dependency and phonology.In Section 2, the results of our findings arepresented, without recourse to any mathemati-cal formalism, in the usual terminology oftraditional German grammars.
In Section 3, amathematical formalism is proposed to statethe rules and the grammar fragment describedin Section 2.2 DescriptionWord order in German is much freer than inEnglish.
The dependency tree of Fig.
1, whichwill be our reference example, has a few dozenlinearizations:(1) a.  Niemand hat diesem Mann das Buchzu lesen versprochenb.
Diesem Mann hat das Buch niemandzu lesen versprochenc.
Das Buch zu lesen hat diesem Mannniemand versprochend.
Diesem Mann hat niemand verspro-chen, das Buch zu lesene.
Diesem Mann hat, das Buch zu lesen,niemand versprochenf.
Zu lesen hat diesem Mann das Buchniemand versprocheng.
Das Buch hat niemand diesem Mannversprochen zu lesen?Nobody promised this man to read thebook.?Fig.
1.
Dependency tree of the sentences in (1)In this paper, we do not attempt to characterizewell-formed German dependency trees al-though we recognize that such a characteriza-tion is essential if we attempt to describe theacceptable sentences of German.2.2 Topological modelThe internal structure of a domain is a se-quence of fields.
For example, the main do-main is the underlying pattern of a declarativesentence, and it consists of the following se-quence of five fields: [Vorfeld, left bracket,Mittelfeld, right bracket, Nachfeld].
A domainresembles a box whose ordered compartments,called fields, can themselves accommodatenew boxes.
In addition to the rules listing thefields of each type of box, we propose twofurther types of rules:?
rules that indicate into which field a wordcan go?depending on the position of itsgovernor;?
rules that indicate which type of box aword can create when it is placed into agiven field.The hierarchy of boxes forms the phrasestructure we construct.2.3 Word order rulesWe have established the following rules for thelinear order of verbs and their dependents:?
The finite verb takes the second positionof the main domain, the left bracket.
Thisverb is also called V2.?
A non-finite verb depending on V2 cango into the right bracket.2 As a result, itopens a reduced phrase with only one po-sition for a verbal dependent (see Section2.8 for another possibility).
If a subse-quent third verb joins the verb already inthe right bracket, it will again open aphrase with a position to its left, and so on.The verbal constituent occupying the rightbracket is called the verb cluster.?
Some non-verbal dependents, such asseparable verbal prefixes (for example thean of anfangen ?begin?
), predicative ad-jectives, and nouns governed by a copularverb or a support verb, can go into theright bracket (the prefix even forms oneword with its following governor).
In con-trast to verbs, these elements do not usu-ally open up a new position for their de-pendents, which consequently have to beplaced somewhere else.32We consider that in a compound verb form such ashat gelesen ?has read?
the past participle dependssyntactically on the auxiliary, which is the finite verbform (cf.
Tesni?re 1959, Mel'cuk 1988).
The V2 isthus always the root of the syntactic dependency tree.3In examples such as (i), the separable verbal prefixan behaves like a subordinated verb intervening be-tween the ?main?
verb and its dependent:hat ?has?niemand?noboby?-NOMdobjsubj auxdas Buch?the book?-ACCzu lesen?to read?iobj infdiesem Mann?this man?-DATversprochen?promised??
One dependent (verbal or non-verbal) ofany of the verbs of the main domain (V2,any verb in the right bracket or even anembedded verb) has to occupy the firstposition, called the Vorfeld (VF, pre-field).?
All the other non-verbal dependents of theverbs in the domain (V2 or part of theverbal cluster) can go in the Mittelfeld(MF, middle-field).?
Some phrases, in particular sententialcomplements (complementizer and rela-tive clauses), prepositional phrases, andeven some sufficiently heavy nounphrases, can be positioned in a field rightof the right bracket, the Nachfeld (NF, af-ter-field).
Like the Mittelfeld, the Nachfeldcan accommodate several dependents.?
When a verb is placed in any of the MajorFields (Vor-, Mittel-, Nachfeld), it opens anew embedded domain.In the following section we illustrate our ruleswith the dependency tree of Fig.
1 and showhow we describe phenomena such as scram-bling and (partial) VP fronting.2.4 Non-embedded construction and?scrambling?Let us start with cases without embedding, i.e.where the subordinated verbs versprochen?promised?
and zu lesen ?to read?
will go intothe right bracket of the main domain (Fig.
2).The constituents which occupy the left andright brackets are represented by shadowedovals.
The other three phrases, niemand ?no-body?, diesem Mann ?to this man?, and dasBuch ?the book?, are on the same domainlevel; one of them has to take the Vorfeld, theother two will go into the Mittelfeld.
We obtainthus 6 possible orders, among them (1a) and(1b).
There are nevertheless some generalrestrictions on the relative constituent order inthe Mittelfeld.
We do not consider these ruleshere (see for instance Lennerz 1977, Uszkoreit1987), but we want to insist on the fact that theorder of the constituents depends very little ontheir hierarchical position in the syntacticstructure.4 Even if the order is not free, there(i) Er f?ngt gleich zu schreien an.He begins right_away to shout AN.
?He begins to shout right away.
?4Dutch has the same basic topological structure, buthas lost morphological case except on pronouns.
Fora simplified description of the order in the DutchMittelfeld, we have to attach to each complementplaced in the Mittelfeld its height in the syntacticare restrictions that weigh more heavily thanthe hierarchical position: pronominalization,focus, new information, weight, etc.hat ?has?niemand?noboby?dobjsubj auxdas Buch?the book?zu lesen?to read?iobj infdiesem Mann?to this man?versprochen?promised?Fig.
2.
A phrase structure without embedded do-mains for (1a,b)The fact that a verbal projection (i.e.
the verband all of its direct and indirect dependents)does not in general form a continuous phrase,unlike in English and French, is called scram-bling (Ross, 1967).
This terminology is basedon an erroneous conception of syntax thatsupposes that word order is always an immedi-ate reflection of the syntactic hierarchy (i.e.every projection of a given element forms aphrase) and that any deviation from this con-stitutes a problem.
In fact, it makes little senseto form a phrase for each verb and its depend-ents.
On the contrary, all verbs placed in thesame domain put their dependents in a com-mon pot.
In other words, there is no scram-bling in German, or more precisely, there is noadvantage in assuming an operation that de-rives ?scrambled?
sentences from ?non-scrambled?
ones.2.5 Embeddinghat ?has?niemand?noboby?subj auxzu lesen?to read?diesem Mann?to this man?versprochen?promised?dobjdas Buch?the book?iobj infFig.
3.
A phrase structure with an embeddeddomain for (1a, 1c, 1d, 1e)dependency tree, and linearize them in descendingorder.As we have said, when a verb is placed in oneof the major fields, it opens an embeddeddomain.
We represent domains by ovals with abold outline.
In the situation of Fig.
3, wherezu lesen ?to read?
opens an embedded do-main, hat ?has?
and versprochen ?promised?occupy the left and right bracket of the maindomain and we find three phrases on the samelevel: niemand ?nobody?, diesem Mann  ?tothis man?, and das Buch zu lesen ?to read thebook?.
The embedded domain can go into theVorfeld (1c), the Nachfeld (1d), or the Mit-telfeld (1a,e).Note that we obtain the word order (1a) a sec-ond time, giving us two phrase structures:(2) a.
[Niemand] [hat] [diesem Mann] [dasBuch zu lesen] [versprochen]b.
[Niemand] [hat] [diesem Mann] [dasBuch] [zu lesen versprochen]This structural ambiguity corresponds, webelieve, to a semantic ambiguity of communi-cative type: In (2a), the fact of reading thebook is marked (as in Reading the book, no-body promised him that), whereas (2b) is neu-tral in this respect (Nobody promised him toread the book).Moreover, the structures (2a) and (2b) corre-spond to different prosodies (the left borderof the right bracket is clearly marked with anaccent on the first syllable of the radical).Finally, the existence of this ambiguity is alsoconfirmed by the contrast between full infini-tives (with zu) and bare infinitives (without zu):Bare infinitives cannot form an embeddeddomain outside of the Vorfeld.
Consequently,there are two different prosodies for (3a) (withor without detachment of das Buch ?thebook?
from zu lesen ?to read?
), whereas onlyone prosody without detachment is permittedfor (3b), although (3a) and (3b) have isomor-phic dependency trees.
Evidence comes alsofrom the written form recommending acomma for (3a) (i.e.
preference for the em-bedded structure), whereas the comma is notallowed for (3b).
(3) a. Niemand versucht(,) das Buch zu lesen?Nobody tries to read the book.?b.
Niemand will das Buch lesen?Nobody wants to read the book.
?2.6 EmancipationThe dependents of a verb do not have to be intheir governor?s domain: They can be ?eman-cipated?
and end up in a superior domain.
Forexample, in Fig.
4, the verb zu lesen ?to read?has created an embedded domain from whichits dependent das Buch ?the book?
has beenemancipated.
We have thus four complementsto place in the superior domain, allowing morethan thirty word orders, among them (1f) and(1g).
Among these orders, only those thathave das Buch or zu lesen in the Vorfeld aretruly acceptable, i.e.
those where embeddingand emancipation are communicatively moti-vated by focus on das Buch or zu lesen.hat ?has?niemand?noboby?subj auxzu lesen?to read?diesem Mann?to this man?versprochen?promised?dobjdas Buch?the book?iobj infFig.
4.
A phrase structure with emancipation for(1f,g)2.8 Word order in the right bracketGerman permits different orders inside theverb cluster.
The tense auxiliaries haben?have?
(past) and werden ?become/will?
(fu-ture) also allow their dependents to take aplace on their right in the right bracket(Oberfeldumstellung or auxiliary flip; Bech,1955) (4a).
The dependents of this verb goagain on the left side of their governor, just asin standard order (we thus obtain V1V2,V1V3V2, V1V4V3V2) but it can also join theplace to the left of the auxiliary (we thus ob-tain the marginal Zwischenstellung V3V1V2(4c), V4V3V1V2).The governed verbs V2 accepting this inverseorder form a closed class including the modaland perception verbs and some others (helfen,?help?, the causative/permissive lassen?make/let?
?
?
haben ?have?
itself also allowsthis right-placement, which suffices to explainthe cases of ?double flip?
as in (4b) givingV1V2V4V3).
Note that the dependent of haben?have?
is the bare infinitive.
This form, calledthe Ersatzinfinitiv, is also possible or evenpreferable for certain verbs when the auxiliaryis in V2 position.
(4) a. Er wird das Buch haben lesen k?nnen.He will the book have read can.
?He will have been able to read the book.?b.
Ich glaube, dass er das Buch wird ha-ben lesen k?nnen.I believe that he the book will have read can.
?I believe that he will have been able to readthe book.?c.
Ich glaube, dass er das Buch lesen wirdk?nnen.I believe that he the book read will can.
?I believe that he will be able to read thebook.
?In related languages like Dutch or Swiss-German, which have the same topologicalstructure, the standard order in the rightbracket is somewhat similar to the GermanOberfeldumstellung.
The resulting order givesrise to cross serial dependencies (Evers 1975,Bresnan et al 1982) Such constructions haveoften been studied for their supposed com-plexity.
With our subsequent description ofthe Oberfeldumstellung, we obtain a formalstructure that applies equally to Dutch.
Indeed,the two structures have identical descriptionswith the exception of the relative order ofdependent verbal elements in the right bracket(keeping in mind that we do not describe theorder of the Mittelfeld).2.9 Relatives and pied-pipingRelative clauses open an embedded domainwith the main verb going into the rightbracket.
The relative pronoun takes the firstposition of the domain, but it can take otherelements along (pied-piping) (5).
Germandiffers from English and Romance languagesin that even verbs can be brought along by therelative pronoun (5b).
(5) a.
Der Mann [[von dem] [Maria] [gek?sstwird]] liebt sie.The man [[by whom] [Maria] [kissed is]]loves her.b.
Das war eine wichtige Einnahmequel-le, [[die zu erhalten] [sich] [die EU][verpflichtet hat]].This was an important source_of_income,[[that to conserve] [itself] [the EU] [com-mited has]].
?This was an important source_of_income,that the EU obliged itself to conserve.
?Before we discuss the topological structure ofrelative clauses, we will discuss their syntacticrepresentation.
Following Tesni?re (1959) andnumerous analyses that have since corrobo-rated his analysis, we assume that the relativepronoun plays a double syntactic role:?
On one hand, it has a pronominal role inthe relative clause where it fills a syntacticposition.?
On the other hand, it plays the role of acomplementizer allowing a sentence tomodify a noun.For this reason, we attribute to the relativepronoun a double position: as a complemen-tizer, it is the head of the relative clause and ittherefore depends directly on the antecedentnoun and it governs the main verb of the rela-tive clause.
As a pronoun, it takes its usualposition in the relative clause.verpflichtetsubj infdie EUhatsich"die"eine EinahmequelleconjrelinfzuerhaltendiedobjdobjIt is now possible to give the word order rulesfor relative clauses.
The complementizing partof the relative pronoun opens an embeddeddomain consisting of the complementizer field(Kathol 1995), Mittelfeld, right bracket, andNachfeld.
The main verb that depends on itjoins the right bracket.
The other rules areidentical to those for other domains, with thegroup containing the pronominal part of therelative pronoun having to join the other partof the pronoun in the complementizer field.In a sense, the complementizer field acts likethe fusion of the Vorfeld and the left bracketof the main domain: The complementizingpart of the pronoun, being the root of thedependency tree of the relative clause, takesthe left bracket (just like the top node of thewhole sentence in the main domain), while thepronominal part of the relative pronoun takesthe Vorfeld.
The fact that the pronoun is oneword requires the fusion of the two parts andhence of the two fields into one.
Note thatverbal pied-piping is very easy to explain inthis analysis: It is just an embedding of a verbin the complementizer field.
Just like the Vor-feld, the complementizer field can be occu-pied by a non-verbal phrase or by a verb cre-ating an embedded domain.3 FormalizationA grammar in the formalism we introduce inthe following will be called a TopologicalDependency Grammar.Fig.
5.
Dependency and phrasestructure for (5b)3.1 Definition of the GrammarFor a grammar, the parameters to instantiateare the vocabulary V, the set of (lexical) cate-gories C, the set of syntactic relations R, the setof box names B, the set of field names F, theinitial field i, the order of permeability of theboxes, which is a partial ordering on B (usedfor emancipation) and four sets of rules:51.
Box description rules:The rule b ?
f1 f2 ?
fn indicates that the boxb consists of the list of fields f1, f2, ?, fn.f1   f2      ?
fnb2.
Field description rules:The pair (f,?)
in F?{!,?,+,?}
indicates that thefield f has to contain exactly one element (!
),at most one element (?
), at least one element(+) or any number of elements (?).3.
Correspondence rules (between the de-pendency and the topological structure):The rule (r,c1,c2,f2,b) indicates that a word w2of category c2, that exhibits a dependency oftype r on a word w1 of category c1, can gointo field f2 of a box containing w1, if thisbox is separated from w1 by borders of type ?b (in other words, the parameter b controls theemancipation).c1bf2 c2r>(In all our figures, boxes are represented byovals, fields by rectangles or sections of anoval.)4.
Box creation rules:The rule (c,f,b,f?)
indicates that a word ofcategory c, placed into a field f, can create abox b and go into the field f?
of this box.Box creation rules are applied recursively untila lexical rule of type (c,f,b,-) is encounteredwhere b is a lexical box with a unique lexicalfield, into which the word has to be placed.Phrase structure derivation starting from adependency treeThe word labeling the root node of the tree isplaced into the initial field i.
Box creationrules are then activated until the word is placed5We will not present lexical rules indicating eachlexical entry?s characteristics, in particular its cate-gory.in a lexical field (-).
A correspondence rule isactivated for one of the dependents of the rootnode, placing it in an accessible field.
Just asfor the root node, box creation rules are acti-vated until the word is assigned to a lexicalfield.
This procedure continues until the wholetree is used up.
Each time a box creation ruleis triggered, a box is created and a descriptionrule for this box has to be activated.
Finally,the constraints of the field description ruleshave to be respected (e.g.
a field requiring atleast one element can not remain empty).3.2 Example of a grammarWe will now instantiate our formalism for theGerman grammar fragment described in sec-tion 2 (leaving aside non-verbal elements inthe right bracket) and we will put forward thederivation of (1f) with this grammar (Fig.5).V = the German wordsC = { V, AV, EV, Vfin, Vinf, Vbse, Vpp, ?, C,N, X, Y }(V = verb, AV = auxiliary verb, EV = verbwith Ersatzinfinitiv, Vfin = finite verb, Vinf= infinitive with zu, Vbse = base infinitive,Vpp = past participle, C = complementizer,X = non-verbal element, Y = anything) ;R = { r } (we consider a unique syntactic rela-tion r subsuming all others)B = { md, ed, cd, vc, vb, v, xp }(md = main domain, ed = embedded do-main, cd = comp domain, vc = verbalcluster, vb = verbal box, v = verb, xp =non-verbal phrase)F = { i, vf, [, mf, ], nf, cf, h, o, u, -}(i = initial field, vf = Vorfeld, ?[?
= leftbracket, mf = Mittelfeld, ?]?
= rightbracket, nf = Nachfeld, cf = comp field, h= head, o = Oberfeld, u = Unterfeld , - =lexical field, f = vf/mf/nf/cf = major field)i is the initial fieldPermeability ordervb < vc < xp = ed < cd < mdBox descriptionmd -> vf [ mf ] nfed -> mf ] nfcd -> cf mf ] nfvc -> o h uvb -> o hv -> -xp -> undescribedField description(i,!
), (-,!
), (vf,!
), (cf,!
), (mf,?
), (nf,?
), ([,!
), (],?),(h,!
), (o,?
), (u,?
).mf ] nf[vfi [Vfinmdhat, Vfin:versprochen, Vpp:zu lesen, Vinf:das Buch, X:niemand, X:diesem Mann, X:+?
?V]Vr>YVfr>ed] hVvc+ + + o   h   uvcYVfr>ed+f ]Ved+ + vf     ]     nfed ] hVvc+ + o   h   uvc+ YVfr>ed+ YVfr>ed+o  h    uvcmf [ nf o  h    uvc[zu lesen]       [hat]   [diesem Mann] [das Buch] [niemand]   [versprochen]vf [ mf ]nf?io  h    uvcmf [ nf o  h    uvcvf [ mf ]nfieded?mf md]nfvf [Vfinimf mdnfvf [Vfinio  h    uvc]VfinVfinVVVV VX X XFig.
6.
Derivation de (1e)Correspondence rulesPositioning of the first verb in the rightbracket:6 (r, Y, V, ], -)Positioning of a verb to the left of the pre-ceding verb in the right bracket:(r, V, V?fin, o, vc)Positioning of a verb to the right of the pre-ceding verb in the right bracket:7(r, AV?inf, EV, u, -)6The last parameter (-) indicates that the rightbracket of a given domain is not accessible whenemancipating an element from an embedded domain.7Auxiliaries with zu do not allow auxiliary flip:(i) ?Er meint das Buch zu haben lesen k?nnen.He thinks the book to have read can.Positioning of a non-verbal element in a ma-jor field:8 (r, V, X, f, ed)Box creation rulesCreation of the main domain in the initialfield: (Vfin, i, md, [)Creation of an embedded domain in a majorfield: (V?fin, f, ed, ])Creation of a verbal cluster in the rightbracket or the Unterfeld: (V,]/u,vc, h)8This last parameter indicates that it is possible toemancipate out of any type of box inferior to ?ed?
inthe order of permeability, i.e.
ed, xp, vb or vc, butnot out of cd.
Moreover, this rule puts no restric-tions on the field of the governor.
This rule wouldhave to be refined to account for NP-internal wordorder phenomena.Creation of a verbal box in the Oberfeld:(V, o, vb, h)Positioning of a verb: (V, [/h, v, -)Creation of a non-verbal phrase: (X, f, xp, ?
)Creation of a domain for a relative clause:9("C", f, cd, "cf")4 ConclusionWe have shown how to obtain all acceptablelinear orders for German sentences startingfrom a syntactic dependency tree.
To do thatwe have introduced a new formalism whichconstructs phrase structures.
These structuresdiffer from X-bar phrase structures in at leasttwo respects: First, we do not use the phrasestructure to represent the syntactic structure ofthe sentence, but only for linearization, i.e.
asan intermediate step between the syntactic andthe phonological levels.
Secondly, the natureof the phrase opened by a lexical elementdepends not only on the syntactic position ofthis element, but also on its position in thetopological structure (e.g.
the different be-haviors of a verb in the right bracket vs. in amajor field).We have to investigate further in various di-rections: From a linguistic point of view, thenatural continuation of our study is to findout how the communicative structure (whichcompletes the dependency tree) restricts us tocertain word orders and prosodies and how toincorporate this into our linearization rules.
Itwould also be interesting to attempt to de-scribe other languages in this formalism, con-figurational languages such as English orFrench, as well as languages such as Russianwhere the surface order is mainly determinedby the communicative structure.
However,German is an especially interesting case be-cause surface order depends strongly on boththe syntactic position (e.g.
finite verb in V2 orVfinal position) and the communicativestructure (e.g.
content of the Vorfeld).From a computational point of view, we areinterested in the complexity of our formalism.It is possible to obtain a polynomial parserprovided that we limit the number of nodessimultaneously involved in non-projectiveconfigurations (see Kahane et al 1998 forsimilar techniques).
Such limitations seemreasonable for Germanic languages (e.g.
verb9The quotation marks indicate that the complemen-tizing part of the relative pronoun is not a real word,and hence it does not actually occupy the comple-mentizer field, and must consequently accommodateanother element.clusters with more than four verbs are un-usual).ReferencesBech Gunnar, 1955, Studien ?ber das deutscheVerbum infinitum, 2nd edition 1983, Linguisti-sche Arbeiten 139, Niemeyer, T?bingen.Bresnan Joan, Ronald M. Kaplan, Stanley Peters,Annie Zaenen, 1982, ?Cross-serial Dependenciesin Dutch?, Linguistic Inquiry 13(4): 613-635.Br?ker Norbert, 1998, ?Separating Surface Order andSyntactic Relations in a Dependency Grammars?,COLING-ACL?98, 174-180.Drach, Erich, Grundgedanken der deutschen Satzleh-re, Diesterweg, Frankfurt, 1937.Duchier Denys, Ralph Debusmann, 2001,?Topological Dependency Trees: A Constraint-Based Account of Linear Precedence?, ACL 2001.Evers Arnoldus, 1975, The transformational cyclein Dutch and German.
PhD thesis, University ofUtrecht.Kahane Sylvain, Alexis Nasr, Owen Rambow, 1998,?Pseudo-Projectivity: a Polynomially ParsableNon-Projective Dependency Grammar?, COLING-ACL?98, Montreal, 646-52.Kathol Andreas, 1995, Linearization-based GermanSyntax, PhD thesis, Ohio State University.Lenerz J?rgen, 1977, Zur Abfolge nominaler Satz-glieder im Deutschen, TBL Verlag G?nter Narr,T?bingen.Hudson Richard, 2000, ?Discontinuity?, in S. Ka-hane (ed.
), Dependency Grammars, T.A.L., 41(1):15-56, Herm?s, Paris.Mel'cuk Igor, 1988, Dependency Syntax: Theory andPractice, SUNY Press, New York.Mel'cuk Igor, Nicolas Pertsov, 1987, Surface syntaxof English ?
A Formal Model within the Mean-ing-Text Framework, Benjamins, Amsterdam.M?ller Stefan, 1999, Deutsche Syntax deklarativ:Head-Driven Phrase Structure Grammar f?r dasDeutsche, Linguistische Arbeiten 394; Niemeyer:T?bingen.Reape M., 1994, ?Domain Union and Word OrderVariation in German?, in J. Nerbonne et al(eds.
), German in Head-Driven Phrase StructureGrammar, CSLI Lecture Notes 46, Stanford.Tesni?re Lucien, 1959, El?ments de syntaxe structu-rale, Kliencksieck, Paris.Uszkoreit Hans, 1987, Word Order and ConstituentStructure in German, CSLI Lecture Notes 8,Stanford, CA.
