TotalRecall: A Bilingual Concordance for Computer Assisted Translation andLanguage LearningJian-Cheng Wu , Kevin C. YehDepartment of Computer ScienceNational Tsing Hua University101, Kuangfu Road, Hsinchu,300, Taiwan, ROCg904307@cs.nthu.edu.twThomas C. ChuangDepartment of Computer ScienceVan Nung Institute of TechnologyNo.
1 Van-Nung RoadChung-Li Tao-Yuan, Taiwan, ROCtomchuang@cc.vit.edu.twWen-Chi Shei , Jason S. ChangDepartment of Computer ScienceNational Tsing Hua University101, Kuangfu Road, Hsinchu, 300,Taiwan, ROCjschang@cs.nthu.edu.twAbstractThis paper describes a Web-based Eng-lish-Chinese concordance system, Total-Recall, developed to promote translationreuse and encourage authentic and idio-matic use in second language writing.
Weexploited and structured existing high-quality translations from the bilingual Si-norama Magazine to build the concor-dance of authentic text and translation.Novel approaches were taken to providehigh-precision bilingual alignment on thesentence, phrase and word levels.
Abrowser-based user interface (UI) is alsodeveloped for ease of access over theInternet.
Users can search for word,phrase or expression in English or Chi-nese.
The Web-based user interface facili-tates the recording of the user actions toprovide data for further research.1 IntroductionA concordance tool is particularly useful for study-ing a piece of literature when thinking in terms of aparticular word, phrase or theme.
It will show ex-actly how often and where a word occurs, so canbe helpful in building up some idea of how differ-ent themes recur within an article or a collection ofarticles.
Concordances have been indispensable forlexicographers and increasingly considered usefulfor language instructor and learners.
A bilingualconcordance tool is like a monolingual concor-dance, except that each sentence is followed by itstranslation counterpart in a second language.
Itcould be extremely useful for bilingual lexicogra-phers, human translators and second languagelearners.
Pierre Isabelle, in 1993, pointed out: ?ex-isting translations contain more solutions to moretranslation problems than any other existing re-source.?
It is particularly useful and convenientwhen the resource of existing translations is madeavailable on the Internet.
A web based bilingualsystem has proved to be very useful and popular.For example, the English-French concordance sys-tem, TransSearch (Macklovitch et al 2000).
Pro-vides a familiar interface for the users who onlyneed to type in the expression in question, a list ofcitations will come up and it is easy to scroll downuntil one finds one that is useful.
TotalRecallcomes with an additional feature making the solu-tion more easily recognized.
The user not only getall the citations related to the expression in ques-tion, but also gets to see the translation counterparthighlighted.TotalRecall extends the translation memorytechnology and provide an interactive tool intendedfor translators and non-native speakers trying tofind ideas to properly express themselves.
Total-Recall empower the user by allow her to take theinitiative in submitting queries for searching au-thentic, contemporary use of English.
These que-ries may be single words, phrases, expressions oreven full sentence, the system will search a sub-stantial and relevant corpus and return bilingualcitations that are helpful to human translators andsecond language learners.2 Aligning the corpusCentral to TotalRecall is a bilingual corpus and aset of programs that provide the bilingual analysesto yield a translation memory database out of thebilingual corpus.
Currently, we are working with acollection of Chinese-English articles from the Si-norama magazine.
A large bilingual collection ofStudio Classroom English lessons will be providedin the near future.
That would allow us to offerbilingual texts in both translation directions andwith different levels of difficulty.
Currently, thearticles from Sinaroma seems to be quite usefullyby its own, covering a wide range of topics, re-flecting the personalities, places, and events inTaiwan for the past three decade.The concordance database is composed of bi-lingual sentence pairs, which are mutual transla-tion.
In addition, there are also tables to recordadditional information, including the source ofeach sentence pairs, metadata, and the informationon phrase and word level alignment.
With that ad-ditional information, TotalRecall provides variousfunctions, including 1. viewing of the full text ofthe source with a simple click.
2. highlightedtranslation counterpart of the query word or phrase.3.
ranking that is pedagogically useful for transla-tion and language learning.We are currently running an experimental pro-totype with Sinorama articles, dated mainly from1995 to 2002.
There are approximately 50,000 bi-lingual sentences and over 2 million words in total.We also plan to continuously updating the databasewith newer information from Sinorama magazineso that the concordance is kept current and relevantto the .
To make these up to date and relevant.The bilingual texts that go into TotalRecallmust be rearranged and structured.
We describe themain steps below:2.1 Sentence AlignmentAfter parsing each article from files and put theminto the database, we need to segment articles intosentences and align them into pairs of mutualtranslation.
While the length-based approach(Church and Gale 1991) to sentence alignmentproduces surprisingly good results for the closelanguage pair of French and English at successrates well over 96%, it does not fair as well fordistant language pairs such as English and Chinese.Work on sentence alignment of English and Chi-nese texts (Wu 1994), indicates that the lengths ofEnglish and Chinese texts are not as highly corre-lated as in French-English task, leading to lowersuccess rate (85-94%) for length-based aligners.Table 1  The result of Chinese collocation candi-dates extracted.
The shaded collocation pairs areselected based on competition of whole phrase loglikelihood ratio and word-based translation prob-ability.
Un-shaded items 7 and 8 are not selectedbecause of conflict with previously chosen bilin-gual collocations, items 2 and 3.Simard, Foster, and Isabelle (1992) pointed outcognates in two close languages such as Englishand French can be used to measure the likelihoodof mutual translation.
However, for the English-Chinese pair, there  are no  orthographic,  phoneticor semantic cognates readily recognizable by thecomputer.
Therefore, the cognate-based approachis not applicable to the Chinese-English tasks.At first, we used the length-based method forsentence alignment.
The average precision ofaligned sentence pairs is about 95%.
We are nowswitching to a new alignment method based onpunctuation statistics.
Although the average ratioof the punctuation counts in a text is low (less than15%), punctuations provide valid additional evi-dence, helping to achieve high degree of alignmentprecision.
It turns out that punctuations are tellingevidences for sentence alignment, if we do morethan hard matching of punctuations and take intoconsideration of intrinsic sequencing of punctua-tion in ordered comparison.
Experiment resultsshow that the punctuation-based approach outper-forms the length-based approach with precisionrates approaching 98%.2.2 Phrase and Word AlignmentAfter sentences and their translation counterpartsare identified, we proceeded to carry out finer-grained alignment on the phrase and word levels.We employ  part of speech patterns  and  statisticalFigure 1.
The results of searching for ?hard+?
with default ranking.analyses to extract bilingual phrases/collocationsfrom a parallel corpus.
The preferred syntactic pat-terns are obtained from idioms and collocations inthe machine readable English-Chinese version ofLongman Dictionary of Contemporary of English.Phrases matching the patterns are extract fromaligned sentences in a parallel corpus.
Thosephrases are subsequently matched up via cross lin-guistic statistical association.
Statistical associationbetween the whole phrase as well as words inphrases are used jointly to link a collocation and itscounterpart collocation in the other language.
SeeTable 1 for an example of extracting bilingual col-locations.
The word and phrase level information iskept in relational database for use in processingqueries, hightlighting translation counterparts, andranking citations.
Sections 3 and 4 will give moredetails about that.3 The QueriesThe goal of the TotalRecall System is to allow auser to look for instances of specific words or ex-pressions.
For this purpose, the system opens uptwo text boxes for the user to enter queries in anyone of the languages involved or both.
We offersome special expressions for users to specify thefollowing queries:?
Exact single word query - W. For instance,enter ?work?
to find citations that contain?work,?
but not ?worked?, ?working?,?works.??
Exact single lemma query ?
W+.
For in-stance, enter ?work+?
to find citations thatcontain ?work?, ?worked?, ?working?,?works.??
Exact string query.
For instance, enter ?inthe work?
to find citations that contain thethree words, ?in,?
?the,?
?work?
in a row,but not citations that contain the three wordsin any other way.?
Conjunctive and disjunctive query.
For in-stance, enter ?give+ advice+?
to find cita-tions that contain ?give?
and ?advice.?
It isalso possible to specify the distance between?give?
and ?advice,?
so they are from a VOconstruction.
Similarly, enter ?hard | diffi-cult | tough?
to find citations that involvedifficulty to do, understand or bear some-thing, using any of the three words.Once a query is submitted, TotalRecall dis-plays the results on Web pages.
Each result ap-pears as a pair of segments, usually one sentenceeach in English and Chinese, in side-by-side for-mat.
The words matching the query are high-lighted, and a ?context?
hypertext link is includedin each row.
If this link is selected, a new page ap-pears displaying the original document of the pair.If the user so wishes, she can scroll through thefollowing or preceding pages of context in theoriginal document.4 RankingIt is well known that the typical user usual has nopatient to go beyond the first or second pages re-turned by a search engine.
Therefore, ranking andputting the most useful information in the first oneor two is of paramount importance for search en-gines.
This is also true for a concordance.Experiments with a focus group indicate thatthe following ranking strategies are important:?
Citations with a translation counterpartshould be ranked first.?
Citations with a frequent translation coun-terpart appear before ones with less frequenttranslation?
Citations with same translation counterpartshould be shown in clusters by default.
Thecluster can be called out entirely on demand.?
Ranking by nonlinguistic features shouldalso be provided, including date, sentencelength, query position in citations, etc.With various ranking options available, the userscan choose one that is most convenient andproductive for the work at hand.5 ConclusionIn this paper, we describe a bilingual concordancedesigned as a computer assisted translation andlanguage learning tool.
Currently, TotalRecalluses Sinorama Magazine corpus as the translationmemory and will be continuously updated as newissues of the magazine becomes available.
Wehave already put a beta version on line and ex-perimented with a focus group of second languagelearners.
Novel features of TotalRecall includehighlighting of query and corresponding transla-tions, clustering and ranking of search results ac-cording translation and frequency.TotalRecall enable the non-native speaker whois looking for a way to express an idea in Englishor Chinese.
We are also adding on the basic func-tions to include a log of user activities, which willrecord the users?
query behavior and their back-ground.
We could then analyze the data and finduseful information for future research.AcknowledgementWe acknowledge the support for this study throughgrants from National Science Council and Ministryof Education, Taiwan (NSC 90-2411-H-007-033-MC and MOE EX-91-E-FA06-4-4) and a specialgrant for preparing the Sinorama Corpus for distri-bution by the Association for Computational Lin-guistics and Chinese Language Processing.ReferencesChuang, T.C.
and J.S.
Chang (2002), Adaptive SentenceAlignment Based on Length and Lexical Information, ACL2002, Companion Vol.
P. 91-2.Gale, W. & K. W. Church, "A Program for Aligning Sen-tences in Bilingual Corpora" Proceedings of the 29th An-nual Meeting of the Association for ComputationalLinguistics, Berkeley, CA, 1991.Macklovitch, E., Simard, M., Langlais, P.: TransSearch: AFree Translation Memory on the World Wide Web.
Proc.LREC 2000 III, 1201--1208 (2000).Nie, J.-Y., Simard, M., Isabelle, P. and Durand, R.(1999)Cross-Language Information Retrieval based on ParallelTexts and Automatic Mining of Parallel Texts in the Web.Proceedings of SIGIR ?99, Berkeley, CA.Simard, M., G. Foster & P. Isabelle (1992), Using cognates toalign sentences in bilingual corpora.
In Proceedings ofTMI92, Montreal, Canada, pp.
67-81.Wu, Dekai (1994), Aligning a parallel English-Chinese corpusstatistically with lexical criteria.
In The Proceedings of the32nd Annual Meeting of the Association for ComputationalLinguistics, New Mexico, USA, pp.
80-87.Wu, J.C. and J.S.
Chang (2003), Bilingual Collocation Extrac-tion Based on Syntactic and Statistical Analyses, ms.Yeh, K.C., T.C.
Chuang, J.S.
Chang (2003), Using Punctua-tions for Bilingual Sentence Alignment- Preparing ParallelCorpus for Distribution by the ACLCLP, ms.
