The FrameNet Data and SoftwareCollin F. BakerInternational Computer Science InstituteBerkeley, California, USAcollinb@icsi.berkeley.eduHiroaki SatoSenshu UniversityKawasaki, Japanhiroaki@ics.senshu-u.ac.jpAbstractThe FrameNet project has developed alexical knowledge base providing a uniquelevel of detail as to the the possible syn-tactic realizations of the specific seman-tic roles evoked by each predicator, forroughly 7,000 lexical units, on the ba-sis of annotating more than 100,000 ex-ample sentences extracted from corpora.An interim version of the FrameNet datawas released in October, 2002 and is be-ing widely used.
A new, more portableversion of the FrameNet software is alsobeing made available to researchers else-where, including the Spanish FrameNetproject.This demo and poster will briefly ex-plain the principles of Frame Semanticsand demonstrate the new unified tools forlexicon building and annotation and alsoFrameSQL, a search tool for finding pat-terns in annotated sentences.
We will dis-cuss the content and format of the data re-leases and how the software and data canbe used by other NLP researchers.1 IntroductionFrameNet1 (Fontenelle, 2003; Fillmore, 2002;Baker et al, 1998) is a lexicographic researchproject which aims to produce a lexicon contain-ing very detailed information about the relation be-1http://framenet.ICSI.berkeley.edu/ framenettween the semantics and the syntax of predicators,including verbs, nouns and adjectives, for a substan-tial subset of English.The basic unit of analysis is the semantic frame,defined as a type of event or state and the partici-pants and ?props?
associated with it, which we callframe elements (FEs).2 Frames range from highlyabstract to quite specific.
An example of an abstractframe would be the Replacement frame, with FEssuch as OLD and NEW as in the sentence Pat re-placed [Old the curtains] [New with wooden blinds].One sense of the verb replace is associated withthe Replacement frame, thus constituting one lexicalunit (LU), the basic unit of the FrameNet lexicon.An example of a more specific frame is Ap-ply heat, with FEs such as COOK, FOOD, MEDIUM,and DURATION.
as in Boil [Food the rice] [Durationfor 3 minutes] [Medium in water], then drain.3 LUsin Apply heat include char, fry, grill, and mi-crowave, etc.In our daily work, we define a frame and itsFEs, make lists of words that evoke the frame (itsLUs), extract example sentences containing theseLUs from corpora, and semi-automatically annotatethe parts of the sentences which are the realizationsof these FEs, including marking the phrase type (PT)and grammatical function (GF).
We can then auto-matically create a report which constitutes a lexicalentry for this LU, detailing all the possible ways inwhich these FEs can be syntactically realized.
The2In similar approaches, these have been referred to asschemas or scenarios, with their associated roles or slots.3In this sentence, as in most examples of boil in recipes,the COOK is constructionally null-instantiated, because of theimperative.annotated sentences and lexical entries for approxi-mately 7,000 LUs will be available on the FN web-site and the data will be released by the end of Au-gust in several formats.2 Frame Semantics and FrameNet II2.1 Frame Semantics in Theory and PracticeThe development of the theory of Frame Semanticsbegan more than 25 years ago (Fillmore, 1976; Fill-more, 1977), but since 1997, thanks to two NSFgrants4, we have been able to apply it in a seriousway to building a lexicon which we intend to beboth usable by human beings and machine-tractable,so that it can serve as a lexical database for NLP,computational lexical semantics, etc.
In FrameNetII, all the data, including the definitions of frames,FEs, and LUs and all of the sentences and the an-notation associated with them is stored in one rela-tional database implemented in MySQL (Baker etal., 2003; Fillmore et al, 2001).The FrameNet public website contains an indexby frame and an index by LU which links to boththe lexical entry and the full annotation for each LU.The frame-to-frame relations which are now beingentered in the database will be visible on the websitesoon.2.2 FrameNet II Data Release 1.0The HTML version of the data consists of all thefiles on the web site, so that users can set up a localcopy and browse it with any web browser.
It is fairlycompact, less than 100 Mb in all.The plain XML version of the data consists of thefollowing files:frames.xml This file contains the descriptions of allthe 450 frames and their FEs, totaling morethan 3,000.
Each frame also includes informa-tion as to frame-to-frame relations.luNNN.xml There is one such file per LU (roughly7500) which contain the example sentences andannotation (if any) for each LU.4We are grateful to the National Science Foundation forfunding the project through two grants, IRI #9618838 andITR/HCI #0086132.
We refer to these two three-year stagesin the life of the project as FrameNet I and FrameNet II.relations.xml A file containing information aboutframe-to-frame and FE-to-FE relations andmeta-relations between them.We intend to have a version of the XML thatincludes RDF of the DAML+OIL flavor, so thatthe FN frames and FEs can be related to existingontologies and Semantic Web-aware applicationscan access FN data using a standard methodology.Narayanan has created such a version for the FN Idata, and a new version reflecting the more complexFN II data is under construction (Narayanan et al,2002).3 The FrameNet Software Suite3.1 The FrameNet Desktop toolsThe FN software used for frame definition and an-notation has been fundamentally rewritten since thedemo at the LREC conference last summer (Fill-more et al, 2002a).
The two major changes are (1)combining the frame editing tools and the annotationtools into a single GUI, making the interface moreintuitive and (2) moving to a client-server model.In the previous version, each client accessed thedatabase directly, which made it very difficult toavoid collisions between users, and meant that eachclient was large, containing a lot of the logic of theapplication, MySQL-specific queries, etc.
In thenew version, the basic modules are now the MySQLdatabase, an application server, and one or moreclient processes.
This has a number of advantages:(1) All the database calls are made by the server,making it much easier to avoid conflicts betweenusers.
(2) The application server contains nearly allthe logic, meaning that the clients are ?thin?
pro-cesses, concerned mainly with the GUI.
(3) The sep-aration into client and server makes it easier to set upremote access to the FN database.
(4) The increasedoverhead caused by the more complex architectureis at least offset by the ability to cache frequently-requested data on the server, making access muchfaster.The public FrameNet web pages contain staticversions of several reports drawn from the database,notably, the lexical entry report, displaying all thevalences of each LU.
The working environment forthe staff includes dynamic versions of these reportsand several others, all written as java applets.
Par-tially shared code makes these reports accessiblewithin the desktop package as well.3.2 API, Library, and UtilitiesWe are currently working on defining a FN APIand writing libraries for accessing the database fromother programs.
We plan to distribute a command-line utility as a demonstration of this API.4 FrameSQL and Kernel DependencyGraphs4.1 Searching with FrameSQLProf.
Hiroaki Sato of Senshu University has writtena web-based tool which allows users to search ex-isting FN annotations in a variety of ways.
The toolalso makes conveniently available several other elec-tronic resources such as WordNet, and other on-linedictionaries.
It is especially useful for doing conven-tional lexicography.4.2 Kernel Dependency GraphsThe major product of the project is the lexicaldatabase of frame descriptions and annotated sen-tences; although these clearly are potentially veryuseful in many sorts of NLP task, FrameNet (atleast in its present phase) remains primarily lexi-cographic.
Nevertheless, as a an intermediate steptoward applications such as automatic text summa-rization, we have recently begun studying kerneldependency graphs (KDGs), which provide a sortof automatic summarization of annotated sentences.KDGs consist of  the predicator (verb, noun, or adjective),  the lexical heads of its dependents  the ?marking?
on the dependents (prepositions,complementizers, etc.
if any), and  the FEs of the dependents.To take a simple example, (1-a), which is anno-tated for the target chained in the Attaching frame,could be represented as the KDG in (1-b).
(1) a.
[Agent Four activists] chained [Itemthemselves] [Goal to an oil drilling rigbeing towed to the Barents Sea] [Time inearly August].b.<KDG frame="Attaching" LU="chain.v"><Agent>activists</Agent><Item>themselves</Item><Goal>to:oil\_drilling\_rig</Goal><Time>in:August</Time></KDG>The situation can be complicated by the pres-ence of higher control verbs and ?transparent?
nounswhich bring about a mismatch between the semantichead and the syntactic head of an FE (Fillmore et al,2002b), as in (2), which should have the same KDGas (1-a).
(2) [Agent Four activists] planned to chain [Itemthemselves] [Goal to the bottom of an oildrilling rig being towed to the Barents Sea][Time in early August].5 Layered Annotation and FrameSemantic ParsingA large majority of FEs are annotated with a tripletof labels, one for the FE name, one for the phrasetype and one for the grammatical function of theconstituent with regard to the target.
But the FNsoftware allows more than three layers of annotationfor a single target, for situations such as when oneFE contains another (e.g.
in [Agent You] ?re hurting[Body part [Victim my] arms]).In addition, the FN software allows us to annotatemore than one target in a sentence.
A full represen-tation of the meaning of a sentence can be built upby composing the semantics of the frames evoked bythe major predicators.6 Applications and Related ProjectsIn addition to the original lexicographic goal, a pre-liminary version of our frame descriptions and theset of more than 100,000 annotated sentences havebeen released to more than 80 research groups inmore than 15 countries.
The FN data is being usedfor a variety of purposes, some of which we hadforeseen and others which we had not; these in-clude uses as teaching materials for lexical seman-tics classes, as a basis for developing multi-linguallexica, as an interlingua for machine translation, andas training data for NLP systems that perform ques-tion answering, information retrieval (Mohit andNarayanan, 2003), and automatic semantic parsing(Gildea and Jurafsky, 2002).A number of scholars have expressed interest inbuilding FrameNets for other languages.
Of these,three have already begun work: In Spain, a teamfrom several universities, led by Prof. Carlos Subi-rats of U A Barcelona, is building using their ownextraction software and the FrameNet desktop toolsto build a Spanish FrameNet (Subirats and Petruck,forthcoming 2003) http://www.gemini.es/SFN.
InSaarbru?cken, Germany, work is proceeding on hand-annotating a parsed corpus with FrameNet FE labels(Erk et al, ).
And in Japan, researchers from KeioUniversity and University of Tokyo are building aJapanese FrameNet in the domains of motion andcommunication, using a large newspaper corpus.7 Contents of the DemoWe will demonstrate how the software can be used tocreate a frame, create a frame element, create a lexi-cal unit , define a set of rules for extracting examplesentences (and, optionally, marking FEs on them),open an existing LU and annotate sentences, markan LU as finished, create a frame-to-frame relation,and attach a semantic type to an FE or an LU.We will demonstrate the reports available on theinternal web pages.
We will show the complexsearches against the FrameNet data that can be runusing FrameSQL, including displaying the result-ing sentences as KDGs.
We will demonstrate howframes can be composed to represent the meaningof sentences using a (manual) frame semantic pars-ing of a newspaper crime report as an example.ReferencesCollin F. Baker, Charles J. Fillmore, and John B. Lowe.1998.
The Berkeley FrameNet project.
In ACL, ed-itor, COLING-ACL ?98: Proceedings of the Confer-ence, held at the University of Montre?al, pages 86?90.Association for Computational Linguistics.Collin F. Baker, Charles J. Fillmore, and Beau Cronin.2003.
The structure of the FrameNet database.
Inter-national Journal of Lexicography.K.
Erk, A. Kowalski, and M. Pinkal.
A corpus re-source for lexical semantics.
Submitted.
Availableat http://www.coli.uni-sb.de/ erk/ OnlinePapers/ Lex-Proj.ps.Charles J. Fillmore, Charles Wooters, and Collin F.Baker.
2001.
Building a large lexical databank whichprovides deep semantics.
In Benjamin Tsou and OliviaKwong, editors, Proceedings of the 15th Pacific AsiaConference on Language, Information and Computa-tion, Hong Kong.Charles J. Fillmore, Collin F. Baker, and Hiroaki Sato.2002a.
The FrameNet database and software tools.
InProceedings of the Third International Conference onLanguag Resources and Evaluation, volume IV, LasPalmas.
LREC.Charles J. Fillmore, Collin F. Baker, and Hiroaki Sato.2002b.
Seeing arguments through transparent struc-tures.
In Proceedings of the Third International Con-ference on Languag Resources and Evaluation, vol-ume III, Las Palmas.
LREC.Charles J. Fillmore.
1976.
Frame semantics and the na-ture of language.
In Annals of the New York Academyof Sciences: Conference on the Origin and Develop-ment of Language and Speech, volume 280, pages 20?32.Charles J. Fillmore.
1977.
Scenes-and-frames seman-tics.
In Antonio Zampolli, editor, Linguistic Struc-tures Processing, number 59 in Fundamental Studiesin Computer Science.
North Holland Publishing.Charles J. Fillmore.
2002.
Linking sense to syntax inFrameNet.
In Proceedings of 19th International Con-ference on Computational Linguistics, Taipei.
COL-ING.Thierry Fontenelle, editor.
2003. International Journalof Lexicography.
Oxford University Press.
(Specialissue devoted to FrameNet.
).Daniel Gildea and Daniel Jurafsky.
2002.
Automatic la-beling of semantic roles.
Computational Linguistics,28(3):245?288.Behrang Mohit and Srinivas Narayanan.
2003.
Seman-tic extraction with wide-coverage lexical resources.
InProceedings of the Human Language Technology Con-ference (HLT-NAACL), Edmonton, Canada.Srinivas Narayanan, Charles J. Fillmore, Collin F. Baker,and Miriam R.L.
Petruck.
2002.
FrameNet meets thesemantic web: A DAML+OIL frame representation.In Proceedings of the 18th National Conference on Ar-tificial Intelligence, Edmonotn, Alberta.
AAAI.Carlos Subirats and Miriam R. L. Petruck.
forthcoming2003.
The Spanish FrameNet project.
In Proceedingsof the Seventeenth International Congress of Linguists,Prague.
