An Evaluation Method of Words Tendency using Decision TreeEl-Sayed Atlam, Masaki Oono, and Jun-ichi AoeDepartment of Information Science and Intelligent SystemsUniversity of TokushimaTokushima,770-8506, Japan.E-mail: atlam@is.tokushima-u.ac.jpABSTRACTIn every text, some words have frequency appearanceand are considered as keywords because they havestrong relationship with the subjects of their texts,these words frequencies change with time-seriesvariation in a given period.
However, in traditionaltext dealing methods and text search techniques, theimportance of frequency change with time-seriesvariation is not considered.
Therefore, traditionalmethods could not correctly determine index of word?spopularity in a given period.
In this paper, a newmethod is proposed to estimate automatically thestability classes (increasing, relatively constant, anddecreasing) that indicate word?s popularity with time-series variation based on the frequency change in pasttexts data.
At first, learning data was produced bydefining four attributes to measure frequency changeof word quantitatively, these four attributes wereextracted automatically from electronic texts.According to the comparison between theevaluation of the decision tree results and manually(Human) results, F-measures of increasing, relativelyconstant  and decreasing classes were 0.847, 0.851,and 0.768 respectively, and the effectiveness of thismethod is achieved.Keywords: time-series variation, words popularity,decision tree, CNN newspaper.1.
INTRODUCTIONRecently, there are many large electronic texts andcomputers are processing (analysis) them widely.Determination of important keywords is crucial insuccessful modern Information Retrieval (IR).
Usually,frequency of some words in the texts are changing bytime (time-series variation), and these words arecommonly connected with particular period (e.g.?influenza?
is more common in winter).
According toHisano (2000) some Chinese characters (Kanji) appearin newspaper reports change with time-seriesvariation.
Ohkubo et al (1998) proposed a method toestimate information that users might need in order toanalysis login data on a WWW search engine.
ByOhkubo method, it is confirmed that, word groupsconnected with search words change according to timewhen the search is done.
Some words have afrequency of use that changes with time-seriesvariation, and often those words attract the attention ofthe users in a particular period.
Such words are oftendirectly connected with the main subject of the text,and can be considered as keywords that expressimportant characteristics of the text.In traditional text dealing methods (Fukumoto,Suzuki & Fukumoto, 1996; Hara, Nakajima & Kitani,1997; Haruo, 1991; Sagara & Watanabe, 1998) andtext search techniques (Liman, 1996; Swerts &Ostendorf, 1995), words frequency change with time-series variation is not considered.
Therefore, suchmethods can not correctly determine the importance ofwords in a given period (e.g.
one-year).
If the changeof word frequencies with time-series variation isconsidered, especially when searching for similartexts.This paper presents a new method forestimating automatically the stability classes thatindicate index of words popularity with time-seriesvariation based on frequency change in past texts data.To estimate quantitatively the frequency change in thetime-series variation of words in each class, thismethod defines four attributes (proper nounsattributes, slope of regression line, slice of regressionline, and correlation coefficient) that are extractedautomatically from past texts data.
These extracteddata are classified manually (Human) into threestability classes.
Decision Tree (DT) automaticalgorithm C4.5 (Quinlan, 1993; Weiss & Kulikowski,1991; Honda, Mochizuki, Ho & Okumura, 1997;Passonneau & Litman, 1997; Okumura, Haraguchi &Mochizuki,1999) uses these data as learning data.Finally, DT automatically determines the stabilityclasses of the input analysis data (test data).2.
POPULARITY OF WORDSCONSIDERING TIME-SERIESVARIATION2.1 Stability Classes of the Words:To judge the index of popularity of words with time-series variation based on the frequency change, andcreate the stability classes of the words, we definedthree classes as follow:(1) Increasing Class ?The class that has an increasingfrequency with  time-series variation?
(2) Relatively Constant Class  ?The class that has astable frequency with    time-series variation?
(3) Decreasing Class ?The class that has a decreasingfrequency with  time-series variation?.We call these classes stability classes.
The wordsbelong to each class is called:increasing-words, relatively constant-words, anddecreasing-words respectively.Table 1 shows a sample of some classifiedwords according to frequency change with time-seriesvariation in each stability class.
For example, thenames of baseball players ?Sammy-Sosa?
and?McGwire?
are included in increasing class becausetheir frequencies increase with time-series variation.The names of baseball teams ?New-York-Mets?
and?Texas-Rangers?
are included in a relatively constantclass because their frequencies relatively stable withtime-series variation.
The names of baseball players?Hank-Aaron?
and ?Nap Lajoie?
are included in adecreasing class because their frequencies decreasewith time-series variation.Words stability classes are decided by thechange of their frequencies with time-series variation.In order to determine the change of frequency withtime-series variation, texts were grouped according toa given period (one-year) and frequency of words ineach group is estimated.
However, to absorb theinfluence caused by difference of number of texts ineach group and to judge the change with time-seriesmore correctly, each frequency is normalized by beingdivided by the total frequencies of the words in eachgroup.Table 1 Sample of Classified WordsStability Class Example of words in each classIncreasing  Words Sammy-Sosa, McGwire,Carlos-DelgadoRelatively constantwordsHome-run, Coach, Baseball,New-York-Mets, Texas-RangersDecreasing  words Hank-Aaron, Nolan-Ryan, Lou-Gehrig, Babe-RuthIn this paper, five attributes are defined todecide the stability classes, and the words data that aredivided into classes beforehand are input into the DTautomatic algorithm C4.5 as the learning data.
Thenwe use the obtained DT to decide automatically thestability classes of increasing words.
In the nextsection, the attributes that are used in the DT learningto judge the stability classes will be described.3.
ATTRIBUTES USED IN JUDGINGTHE STABILITY CLASSTo obtain the characteristics of the change of word?sfrequencies quantitatively, the following attributes aredefined.
The value of each attribute defined here isused as the input data for the DT describe in section 4.1) Proper Nouns Attributes (pna)2) Slope of regression straight line (?
)3) Slice of regression straight line (?
)4) Correlation coefficient (r)3.1 Proper Nouns Attributes (pna)In this paper, we selected only three kinds of propernouns attributes: ?Player-name?, ?Organization-name?, and ?Team-name?
to study the influence of thetime-series variation and to obtain the characteristicsof increasing or decreasing stability classes.
Also weused ?Ordinary-nouns?
(e.g.
?ball?, ?coach?, ?home-run?)
for the relatively constant class.
Thecharacteristics of the stability class are much easierand more correct by using these entities analysis.3.2 The Slope and the Slice ofRegression Straight Line (?
&?
):Regression analysis is a statistical method, whichapproximates the change of the sample value withstraight line in two dimension rectangular coordinates,and this approximation straight line is called aregression straight line (Gonick & Smith, 1993).In this progress we take the standard years(x1= first year, x2= second year,??
?xi= i year,??
?, xn= n year) as a horizontal axis, and thecorresponding  normalization frequency yi of thewords as a vertical axis.
The slope segmentation ?
andthe slice ?
of the equation y = ?
x +?
can becalculated by the following formula:)1()())((121 ??????==??
?= niiniiixxyyxx?
yx)2(???
?xy ??
?=where       ,      are the average values of xi, yirespectively.By obtaining the cross point of the regressionstraight line and the current time period in rectangularcoordinates, it is possible to get the estimatedfrequencies of the current words.
The slope of theregression straight line can estimate the stabilityclasses of the words.
In addition, from the slice of theregression straight line, the difference of frequenciesbetween words groups in the same stability class canbe estimated.
For example the frequency of the wordsin the same stability class (relatively constant) thathave a regression straight line (1) in Fig.
5 is higherevery period than that of straight line (2).
The value ofthe slice of regression straight line (1) is also higherthan that of regression straight line (2).
So, we candecide that the words of the regression straight line (1)are more important than the words in the regressionstraight line (2), even though all these words are in thesame class.Freq.???????
??
????(1)4.
ESTIMATIONIn order to confirm the effectiveness of our method, anexperiment is designed to study the effect of learningperiod lengths and all attributes on the distributionprecision of DT output, as explained below:(2)Periods)3()()?()(2112????
?yyyyofsignr niinii??=??==?Fig.
1 Example of the difference of Important Words group in a Similar Class.By obtaining the cross point of the regressionstraight line and the current time period in rectangularcoordinates, the slope of the regression straight linecan estimate the stability classes of the words.
Forexample, when the stability class is stabilized, theregression straight line is close to the horizontal lineand the slope is close to 0.
When the stability class isincreasing, its slope is positive, and the slope becomesnegative when the stability class is decreasing.In addition, from the slice of the regressionstraight line, the difference of frequencies betweenwords groups in the same stability class can beestimated.
For example the frequency of the words inthe same stability class (relatively constant) that have aregression straight line (1) in Fig.
1 is higher everyperiod than that of straight line (2).
The value of theslice of regression straight line (1) is also higher thanthat of regression straight line (2).
So, we can decidethat the words of the regression straight line (1) aremore important than the words in the regressionstraight line (2), even though all these words are in thesame class.3.3.
Correlation Coefficient (r)Correlation coefficient is used to judge the reliabilityof regression straight line.
Although, stability classesof words are estimated by slope and slice of theregression straight line, there are some words with thesame regression straight line have versus degree ofscattering because of the arrangement of frequenciesof words in rectangular coordinates as shown in Fig.
2.In such case, there will be some problems in the pointof reliability if these different groups of words havethe same stability class.So, in order to judge the reliability of the regressionstraight line that derived from the scattering offrequencies, a correlation coefficient was used thatshows the scattering extent (degree) of the frequenciesof words in rectangular coordinates.
Correlationcoefficient is also a statistical method (Gonick &Smith, 1993), and the calculation equation is shown asfollows: In the above formula, are the predictedweights determined by regression line and ?
is theslope of the regression straight line.iy?When the absolute value of correlationcoefficient r is approaching to 1, the appearancefrequency is concentrated around the regressionstraight line, and when it approaches to 0, it means thatthe appearance frequency is irregularly scatteringaround the regression straight line.Ferq.PeriodsFig.
2 An Illustration of RegressionCoefficient.4.1 Experimental Data:The sports section of CNN newspapers (1997-2000)was used as an experimental collection data, becauseof the uniqueness of the words in this fieldand their tendency to change with the time-seriesvariation.
A specific sub-field from sports?professional baseball?
was chosen because it hasstabilized frequent reports every year, and it isrelatively easy to determine how words frequenciesaffect by time-series variation.
Words identify withfour kinds of proper nouns attributes: ?Player-name?,?Organization-name?, ?Team-name?, and ?Ordinary-nouns?
were extracted from the selected reports, andthe normalized frequency of the selected words in eachyear was obtained.
Then, stability classes classifiedmanually (Human) to these words.The data is divided into two groups: oneincludes the reports of years      (1997- 1999) are usedas DT learning data.
The other includes the reports ofyears (1997-2000), that are completely different datathan the learning data, are used as test data.
For bothdata sets the attributes are obtained from the change ofwords frequency with time- series variation includedin both periods.
The data of extracted words is shownin Table 2.In order to get the accuracy of the correct words thatare words that are evaluated automatically by DT, we measured: Precision (P), and Recall (R) rate asfollows:Number of correct words extracted by (DT)Precision    =Total number of words extracted by (DT)Number of correct words extracted by DT)Recall         =?????
?Total number of correct words classified manuallyTable 2 Evaluation Data.DT Learning Data DT Test DataM N X YPeriod 1997-1999 1998-1999 1997-2000 1998-2000Total Number of Words 443 360 472 392Increasing Words 55 59 69 82Constant Words 243 187 252 200Decreasing Words 145 114 151 110Table 3 Relation between various periods of time and Classification Precision.Learning PeriodN (1998-1999)                    M (1997-1999)Classes I C D I C DPrecision 49.41 73.48 65.9 82.73 97.13 65.68Recall 63.36 49.77 95 84.73 75.78 92.5Where ?i, c, d?
are increasing, relatively constant and decreasing classes4.2 Relation Between Learning Periodand Classification Precision:In this section, we show the effectiveness of usingthe longest period M and the shortest period N oflearning data to distribution of P & R.  We noticethat, when the period of learning data is longer (M)the number of words increases and characteristicsof the relatively constant and decreasing stabilityclasses become more obvious, so theirclassifications become clear, and as a result P & Rbecome higher.
However, when short learningperiod is used P & R decrease.
The comparisonresults for the longest and shortest periods areshown in Table 3.5.
CONCLUSIONStability classes are defined as the index of popularityof words, and five attributes are defined to obtain thefrequency change of words quantitatively.
The methodis proposed to estimate automatically stability classes ofwords by having DT learning to be done on extractedattributes from past text data.
It is confirmed by the testresults that classification precision can be improvedwhen all five attributes and the longest learning periodare used.
Future work could focus on texts in fieldsother than sports that is used in this paperREFERENCESFukumoto, F., Suzuki, Y., & Fukumoto, J.I.(1996).
An Automatic Clustering of Articles UsingDictionary Definitions.
Trans.
Of InformationProcessing Society of Japan, 37(10), (pp.
1789-1799).Gonick, L., & Smith, W. (1993).
The CartoonGuide to Statistics, HarperCollins Publishers.Hara, M., Nakajima, H., & Kitani, T. (1997).Keyword Extraction Using Text Format and WordImportance in Specific Field.
Trans.
OfInformation Processing Society of Japan, 38(2),(pp.
299-309).Haruo, K. (1991).
Automatic Indexing andEvaluation of Keywords for Japanese Newspaper.Trans.
of the Institute of Electronics, Informationand Communication Engineering (IEICE).
J74-D-I(8), (pp.
556-566).Hisano, H. (2000).
Page-Type and Time-SeriesVariations of a Newspaper's Character OccurrenceRate., Journal of Natural Language Processing, 7(2), (pp.45-61).Honda, T., Mochizuki, H., Ho,T.B., & Okumura,M.
(1997).
Generating Decision Trees from anUnbalanced Data Set.
In proceeding of the 9thEuropean Conference on Machine Learning.Liman, J.
(1996).
Cue Phrase Classification UsingMachine Learning.
Journal of  ArtificialIntelligence Research, 5, (pp.
53-94).Okumura, M., Haraguchi, Y., & Mochizuki, H.(1999).
Some Observation on Automatic TextSummarization Based on Decision Tree Learning.Journal of Information Processing Society ofJapan.
No.5N-2,(pp.
71-72).Ohkubo, M.,  Sugizaki, M., Inoue, T., & Tanaka,K.
(1998).
Extracting Information Demand byAnalyzing a WWW Search Login.
Trans.
ofInformation Processing Society of Japan, 39(7),(pp.
2250-2258).Passonneau, R.J., & Litman, D.J.
(1997).Discourse Segmentation by Human andAutomated Means.
Computational Linguistics, 23(1), (pp.
103-139).Quinlan, J.R. (1993).
C4.5: Programs forMachine Learning , Morgan Kaufmann.Sagara, K., & Watanabe, K. (1998).
Extraction ofImportant Terms that Reflect the Contents ofEnglish Contracts.
Journal of Special InterestGroups of NaturalLanguage & Information Processing Society ofJapan (SIGNL-IPSJ), (pp.
91-98).Salton, G., & McGill, M.J. (1983).
Introduction ofModern Information Retrieval.
New YorkMcGraw-Hill..
