Automatic Detection of Grammar Elements that Decrease ReadabilityMasatoshi Tsuchiya and Satoshi SatoDepartment of Intelligence Science and Technology,Graduate School of Informatics, Kyoto Universitytsuchiya@pine.kuee.kyoto-u.ac.jp, sato@i.kyoto-u.ac.jpAbstractThis paper proposes an automatic methodof detecting grammar elements that de-crease readability in a Japanese sentence.The method consists of two components:(1) the check list of the grammar elementsthat should be detected; and (2) the de-tector, which is a search program of thegrammar elements from a sentence.
Bydefining a readability level for every gram-mar element, we can find which part of thesentence is difficult to read.1 IntroductionWe always prefer readable texts to unreadable texts.The texts that transmit crucial information, such asinstructions of strong medicines, must be completelyreadable.
When texts are unreadable, we shouldrewrite them to improve readability.In English, measuring readability as reading ageis well studied (Johnson, 1978).
The reading ageis the chronological age of a reader who could justunderstand the text.
The value is usually calculatedfrom the sentence length and the number of sylla-bles.
From this value, we find whether a text is read-able or not for readers of a specific age; however, wedo not find which part we should rewrite to improvereadability when the text is unreadable.The goal of our study is to present tools that helprewriting work of improving readability in Japanese.The first tool is to help detect the sentence frag-ments (words and phrases) that should be rewrit-ten; in other words, it is a checker of ?hard-to-read?words and phrases in a sentence.
Such a checker canbe realized with two components: the check list andits detector.
The check list provides check items andtheir readability levels.
The detector is a programthat searches the check items in a sentence.
Fromthe detected items and their readability levels, wecan identify which part of the sentence is difficult toread.We are currently working on three aspects con-cerned with readability of Japanese: kanji charac-ters, vocabulary, and grammar.
In this paper, we re-ports the readability checker for the grammar aspect.2 The check list of grammar elementsThe first component of the readability checker isthe check list; in this list, we should define everyJapanese grammar element and its readability level.A grammar element is a grammatical phenomenonconcerned with readability, and its readability levelindicates the familiarity of the grammar element.In Japanese, grammar elements are classified intofour categories.1.
Conjugation: the form of a verb or an adjectivechanges appropriately to the proceed word.2.
Functional word: postpositional particles workas case makers; auxiliary verbs represent tenseand modality.3.
Sentential pattern: negation, passive form, andquestion are represented as special sentencepatterns.4.
Functional phrase: there are idiomatic phrasesworks functionally, like ?not only ... but also...?
in English.A grammar section exists in a part of the JapaneseLanguage Proficiency Test, which is used to measureand certify the Japanese language ability of a personwho is a non-Japanese.
There are four levels in thistest; Level 4 is the elementary level, and Level 1 isthe advanced level.Test Content Specifications (TCS) (Foundationand Association of International Education, 1994) isintended to serve as a reference guide in questioncompilation of the Japanese Language ProficiencyTest.
This book describes the list of grammar ele-ments, which can be tested at each level.
These listsfit our purpose: they can be used as the check list forthe readability checker.TCS describes grammar elements in two ways.
Inthe first way, a grammar element is described as a3-tuple: its name, its patterns, and its example sen-tences.
The following 3-tuple is an example of thegrammar element that belongs to Level 4.Namedaimeishi???
(Pronoun)Patternskore??
(this), sore??
(that)Exampleskore??ha?hon?desu.???
(This is a book.),sore??ha?no?to???desu.???
(That is a note.
)Grammar elements of Level 3 and Level 4 are con-jugations, functional words and sentential patternsthat are defined in this first way.
In the second way,a grammar element is described as a pair of its pat-terns and its examples.
The following pair is an ex-ample of the grammar element that belongs to Level2.Patterns ?ta?tokoro???
(when ...)Examplessensei??no?otaku??he?ukagatta???tokoro???
(When visiting the teacher?s home)Grammar elements of Level 1 and Level 2 are func-tional phrases that are defined in this second way.We decided to use this example-based definitionfor the check list, because the check list should be in-dependent from the implementation of the detector.If the check list depends on detector?s implementa-tion, the change of implementation requires changeof the check list.Each item of the check list is defined as a 3-tuple:(1) readability level, (2) name, and (3) a list of exam-ple pairs.
There are four readability levels accordingTable 1: The size of the check listLevel # of rules1 1342 3223 974 95Total 648to the Japanese Language Proficiency Test.
An ex-ample pair consists of an example sentence and aninstance of the grammar element.
It is an implicitdescription of the pattern detecting the grammar el-ement.
For example, the check item for ?Adjective(predicative, negative, polite)?
is shown as follows,Level 4Name Adjective (predicative, negative, polite)Test PairsSentence1kono??heya??ha?hiroku??nai??desu.???
(This room is not large.)Instance1hiroku??nai??desu??
(is not large)The instance?????
?/hirokunaidesu/ consistsof three morphemes: (1)?
?/hiroku/, the adjectivemeans ?large?
in renyo form, (2)?
?/nai/, the ad-jective means ?not?
in root form, and (3)?
?/desu/,the auxiliary verb ends a sentence politely.
So, thistest pair represents implicitly that the grammar el-ement can be detected by a pattern ?Adjective(inrenyo form) + nai + desu?.All example sentences are originated from TCS.Some check items have several test pairs.
Table 1shows the size of the check list.3 The grammar elements detectorThe check list must be converted into an explicitrule set, because each item of the check list showsno explicit description of its grammar element, onlyshows one or more pairs of an example sentence andan instance.3.1 The explicit rule setFour categories of grammar elements leads that eachrule of the explicit rule set may take three differenttypes.?
Type M: A rule detecting a sequence of mor-phemes?
Type B: A rule detecting a bunsetsu.?
Type R: A rule detecting a modifier-modifee re-lationship.Type M is the basic type of them, because almost ofgrammar elements can be detected by morphologi-cal sequential patterns.Conversion from a check item to a Type M ruleis almost automatic.
This conversion process con-sists of three steps.
First, an example sentence ofthe check item is analyzed morphologically and syn-tactically.
Second, a sentence fragment covered bythe target grammar element is extracted based onsigns and fixed strings included in the name of thecheck item.
Third, a part of a generated rule is re-laxed based on part-of-speech tags.
For example,the check item of the grammar element whose nameis ?Adjective (predicative, negative, polite)?
is con-verted to the following rule.np( 4, ?Adjective(predicative,negative,polite)?,Dm({ H1=>?Adjective?,K2=>?Basic Renyou Form?
},{ G=>??
?/nai/?,H1=>?Postfix?, K2=>?Root Form?
},{ G=>??
?/desu/?,H1=>?Auxiliary Verb? })
);The function np() makes the declaration of therule, and the function Dm() describes a morphologi-cal sequential pattern which matches the target.
Thisexample means that this grammar element belongsto Level 4, and can be detected by the pattern whichconsists of three morphemes.Type B rules are used to describe grammar ele-ments such as conjugations including no functionalwords.
They are not generated automatically; theyare converted by hand from type M rules that aregenerated automatically.
For example, the rule de-tecting the grammar element whose name is ?Adjec-tive in Root Form?
is defined as follows.np( 4, ?Adjective in Root Form?,Db( { H1=>?Adjective?,K2=>?Root Form? }
) );The function Db() describes a pattern whichmatches a bunsetsu which consists of specified mor-phemes.
This example means that this grammar el-ement belongs to Level 3, and shows the detectionpattern of this grammar element.Converted Automatically+ Modified by HandKNPJumanDetectionConvertedAutomaticallyLoadedSentenceMorphologicalAnalysisSyntactic Analysis+Detection againstmorphmes andbunsetsuesDetection againstmodifier-modifeerelationships+ LankingKNP RuleRule SetCheck ListSentence + Grammar ElementsFigure 1: System structureType R rules are used to describe grammar ele-ments that include modifier-modifee relationships.In the case of the grammar element whose name is?Verb Modified by Adjective?, it includes a structurethat an adjective modifies a verb.
It is impossibleto detect this grammar element by a morphologicalcontinuous pattern, because any bunsetsus can be in-serted between the adjective and the verb.
For such agrammar element, we introduce the function Dk()that takes two arguments: the former is a modifierand the latter is its modifee.np( 4, ?Verb Modified by Adjective?,Dk( Db({ H1=>?Adjective?,K2=>?Basic Renyou Form?
}),Dm({ H1=>?Verb? })
) );3.2 The architecture of the detectorThe architecture of the detector is shown in Figure 1.The detector uses a morphological analyzer, Juman,and a syntactic analyzer, KNP (Kurohashi and Na-gao, 1994).
The rule set is converted into the formatthat KNP can read and it is added to the standard ruleset of KNP.
This addition enables KNP to detect can-didates of grammar elements.
The ?Detection?
partselects final results from these candidates based onpreference information given by the rule set.Figure 2 shows grammar elements detected by ourdetector from the sentence ?chizu??ha?oroka,????ryakuzu??sae??mo?kubarare???nakatta.??????
which means ?Neither amap nor a rough map was not distributed.
?4 ExperimentWe conducted two experiments, in order to checkthe performance of our detector.Fragment Name Levelchizu??
(a map) - -ha?oroka???
(neither) ?ha?
oroka???
(neither ...) 1?
(,) ??
(comma) 4ryakuzu?
?
(a rough map) - -sae??
(even) ?
sae??
(even ...) 2mo?
(nor) ?!?
(huku postpositional particle means ?nor?)
4kubarare???
(distributed) ?
reru??
(passive verb phrase) 3nakatta????
(was not) ?
nai??
(predicative adjective means ?not?)
4?
(.)
??
(period) 4Figure 2: Automatically detected grammar elementsThe first test is a closed test, where we examinewhether grammar elements in example sentences ofTCS are detected correctly.
TCS gives 840 examplesentences, and there are 802 sentences from whichtheir grammar elements are detected correctly.
Fromthe rest 38 sentences, our detector failed to detectthe right grammar element.
This result shows thatour program achieves the sufficient recall 95% in theclosed test.
Almost of these errors are caused failureof morphological analysis.The second test is an open test, where we examinewhether grammar elements in example sentences ofthe textbook, which is written for learners preparingfor the Japanese Language Proficiency Test (Tomo-matsu et al, 1996), are detected correctly.
The text-book gives 1110 example sentences, and there are680 sentences from which their grammar elementsare detected correctly.
Wrong grammar elementsare detected from 71 sentences, and no grammar el-ements are detected from the rest 359 sentences.
So,the recall of automatic detection of grammar ele-ments is 61%, and the precision is 90%.
The ma-jor reason of these failures is strictness of severalrules; several rules that are generated from examplepairs automatically are overfitting to example pairsso that they cannot detect variations in the textbook.We think that relaxation of such rules will eliminatethese failures.ReferencesThe Japan Foundation and Japan Association of Interna-tional Education.
1994.
Japanese Language Profi-ciency Test: Test content Specifications (Revised Edi-tion).
Bonjin-sha Co.Keith Johnson.
1978.
Readability.
http://www.timetabler.com/readable.pdf.Sadao Kurohashi and Makoto Nagao.
1994.
A syntacticanalysis method of long Japanese sentences based onthe detection of conjunctive structures.
ComputationalLinguistics, 20(4).Etsuko Tomomatsu, Jun Miyamoto, and Masako Waguri.1996.
Donna-toki Dou-tsukau Nihongo HyougenBunkei 500.
ALC Co.
