A Prototype Text to British Sign Language (BSL) Translation SystemIan Marshall, ?Eva Sa?fa?rSchool of Information SystemsUniversity of East Angliaim@sys.uea.ac.uk, es@sys.uea.ac.ukAbstractWe demonstrate a text to sign languagetranslation system for investigating signlanguage (SL) structure and assisting inproduction of sign narratives and informa-tive presentations1.
The system is demon-strable on a conventional PC laptop com-puter.1 IntroductionDuring the last half century sign languages havebeen recognized as genuine languages.
Thus signlanguages are now accepted as minority languages,which coexist with majority languages (Neidle etal., 2000) and which are the native languages formany deaf people.
Provision of information ac-cess and services in signed languages is as impor-tant as in other minority languages.
Such provision,however, introduces theoretical and technical chal-lenges.
The use of a sign language gesture nota-tion to drive virtual humans (avatars) for present-ing signing has been investigated (Kennaway, 2001).Semi-automatic translation system from individualEnglish sentences to such a sign language gesturenotation has been demonstrated (self identifyinh ref-erences).
Here, extension of this system to handlelocation of nominals at positions in the three dimen-sional space in front of the signer and noun verbagreement involving such allocated positions is de-scribed and illustrated.1This work is incorporated within ViSiCAST, an EU Frame-work V supported project which builds on work supported bythe UK Independent Television Commission and Post Office.2 Sign language phenomenaSign Languages (SLs) involve simultaneous manualand non-manual components for conveying mean-ing.
Non-manual features are comprised of the pos-ture of the upper torso, the orientation of the headand facial expressions.
Manual features have beenoften been decomposed as hand-shape, hand orienta-tion, hand position and motion (Stokoe, 1978; Brien,1992; Sutton-Spence and Woll, 1999).
The Ham-burg Notation System (HamNoSys) (Prillwitz et al,1989; Hanke and Schmaling, 2001; Hanke, 2002)is an established phonetic transcription system forSLs comprising more than 200 iconically motivatedsymbols to describe these manual and non-manualfeatures of signs.The manual components of signs are constrainedto occur within signing space.
Signing space is thethree-dimensional space in front of the signer whichextends vertically from above the signer?s head towaist level, and horizontally from touching/close tothe body to at arm?s length in front of and to theside of the signer.
Signs can be categorised in termsof the ways they use signing space.
Body anchoredand fixed nominal and verbal signs are either signedat a fixed body location or involve internal motionwhich allow relatively little modification to the sign.In contrast, some nominal signs can be signed atvarying locations and thus the location where theyare signed has significance.
Furthermore, directionalverbs allow grammatical and semantic informationto be encoded within signing space such that the spe-cific start and/or end positions of these signs havesyntactic and semantic significance (Liddel, 1990).A further distinction can be made between topo-graphic and syntactic use of space (Klima and Bel-EnglishTextCMU Parser DRS Creation HPSG sem GenerationAnimationHamNoSysuser user user userSL lexiconSL grammarSL  generationWordnetLink lambda DRS defsFigure 1: Architecture of the translation systemlugi, 1979; Emmorey et al, 1995; Sutton-Spenceand Woll, 1999).
In the case of the former, signingspace is used to gesture towards and point at objectsand persons physically present and thus has similar-ities with body anchored signs where the location atwhich a sign is made has an iconic/deictic function.However, in cases where the signer describes rela-tionships between objects and persons which are notpresent, position within signing space can be usedto denote abstract referents.
Similarities between to-pographic and syntactic uses are apparent and of-ten there is overlap between the two, and there issome evidence to suggest that, contrary to expecta-tions, the granularity of the two may be comparable(Cormier, 2002).
As our concerns are with transla-tion from English text to sign language (and hencephysical presence is not an issue) we concentrate onthe syntactic uses of signing space.3 System ArchitectureThe architecture of the English text to British SignLangauge (BSL) system is essentially a pipeline offour main translation stages1.
English syntactic parsing,2.
Discourse Representation Structure (DRS) generation,3.
Semantic transfer,4.
Generation of HamNoSys SL phonetic descriptions,as illustrated in Figure 1.3.1 Syntactic ParsingEnglish text (Figure 2 top left) is parsed by theCarnegie Mellon University (CMU) link grammarparser (Sleator and Temperley, 1991) to producean appropriate linkage which characterises syntacticdependencies (Figure 2 bottom left).
In cases wheremultiple linkages are generated, the user intervenesto select an appropriate linkage.3.2 DRS GenerationFrom a CMU parser generated linkage a DiscourseRepresentation Structure DRS (Kamp and Reyle,1993) is generated to capture the semantic contentof the text (Figure 2 top middle).
DRSs allow iso-lation of specific semantic content (nominal, verbaland adjectival based predicates, discourse referentsand temporal relationships).
Anaphora resolution isused to associate pronouns with discourse referents,and reuse of nouns is used to imply co-referenceto the same linguistic referent.
Currently, the mostcommon 50% CMU links are transformed into DRSform.3.3 Semantic TransferAn English oriented DRS is transformed into a SLoriented DRS.
In particular, the number of argu-ments for some predicates is modified to a differentnumber of arguments expected of a correspondingSL sign.
For example, the English verb move obli-gatorily requires only one argument but is often ac-companied by optional adjuncts for the source anddestination locations.
Its BSL equivalent (glossedas MOVE) requires three arguments - the start andend sign space positions and a (classifier or default)handshape consistent with the object being moved.Such transformations are effected on the DRS.The DRS is then transformed to an equivalentFigure 2: Screen shot of the current translation systemHPSG semantic structure which is the starting pointfor SL generation.3.4 HamNoSys SL GenerationA SL grammar and lexicon are used to drive deriva-tion of a HamNoSys phonetic description of a signsequence from the HPSG semantic structure (Fig-ure 2 bottom middle).
The BSL lexicon contains ap-proximately 250 lexical items.
Some lexical itemsare fully instantiated forms for fixed and body-anchored signs, however others are only partially in-stantiated forms for directional verbs and forms ofmodulation of lexical items.
For nominal orientedsigns, classifiers are associated with signs, and fordirectional verbs the lexical entries require incorpo-ration of specific forms of classifiers and sign spacelocations.The SL grammar constitutes a collection of simul-taneous constraints which the phonology and syntaxof selected signs must satisfy in order to constitutea valid sign sequence.
These constraints enforce ap-propriate sign order, for example realising a topiccomment ordering signs for the English sentence ?
Isaw an exciting video.
?VIDEO EXCITING/INTERESTING SEE MESign space location agreement requires that nom-inals are assigned consistent positions in signingspace and that directional verbs agree with thesepositions that reflects anaphoric relationships of theoriginal text and use with directional verbs.
In thisexample, the directional verb SEE must start at thelocation of ME and be directed towards the locationof VIDEO.
Subsequent references to the same ob-ject must respect its position by signing the sign atthe same location or by anaphoric pointing at thatlocation.
This form of agreement is achieved by in-clusion of a model of signing space within the HPSGfeature structure in which nominals are allocated po-sitions and from which verbal signs acquire posi-tional information (Figure 2 top right).Number agreement between nominal and verbalsigns is enforced distinguishing between collectiveand distributive interpretations of plurals.
For ex-ample, the friends in ?I invited four friends?
mayhave been invited individually (in which case the di-rectional verb INVITE is repeated three times) orthey may have been invited as a group (with IN-VITE signed only once).
The under-specification inthe English input is resolved by requesting the userto volunteer the additional information of a distribu-tive or collective reading.ConclusionsThe resulting HamNoSys sign sequence descriptionsare realised visually as virtual human behaviour(Kennaway, 2001) (Figure 2 bottom right) 2.
Cur-rently, the SL generation sub-system incorporates alexicon and grammar whose coverage are represen-tative of a number of interesting SL phenomena andwhose semantic, syntactic and phonological formal-isation is one of the most advanced SL characteri-sations available.
Such detail is essential to enablevisualisation by a virtual human.
The main omis-sion in the system currently is the absence of non-manual components of signing, though the SL gen-eration has been designed to be extended in this di-rection in the future.
The functionality of the systemis demonstrable on a laptop computer.ReferencesD.
(Ed.)
Brien.
1992.
Dictionary of British Sign Lan-guage/English.
Faber and Faber, London,Boston.K.A.
Cormier.
2002.
Grammaticization of indexic signs: Howamerican sign language expresses numerosity.
Doctoral the-sis, Graduate School of the University of Texax at Austin.K.
Emmorey, D. Corina, and U. Bellugi.
1995.
Differentialprocessing of topographic and referential functions of space.In K. Emmorey and J.S.
Reilly, editors, Language, Gesture,and Space, pages pp.
43?62.
Lawrence Erlbaum Associates.T.
Hanke and C. Schmaling.
2001.
A hamnosys-based phonetictranscription system as a basis for sign language generation.In Gesture Workshop 2001, London.2The avatar illustrated was developed by Televirtual, Nor-wich UK and its HamNoSys interface by UEA colleagueswithin ViSiCAST.T.
Hanke.
2002.
Hamnosys in a sign language generation con-text.
In R. Schulmeister and H. Reinitzer, editors, Progressin sign language research.
(In honor of Siegmund Prillwitz),International Studies on Sign Language and Communicationof the Deaf; 40, pages pp.
249?264, Hamburg.H.
Kamp and U. Reyle.
1993.
From Discourse to Logic.Introduction to Model theoretic Semantics of Natural Lan-guage, Formal Logic and Discourse Representation Theory.Kluwer Academic Publishers, Dordrecht.J.R.
Kennaway.
2001.
Synthetic animation of deaf signinggestures.
In The Fourth International Workshop on Ges-ture and Sign Language Interaction, Gesture Workshop 2001(GW2001), City University, London, UK.E.
Klima and U. Bellugi.
1979.
The signs of language.
HarvardUniversity Press.S.K.
Liddel.
1990.
Structures for representing handshape andlocal movement at the phonemic level.
In S.D.
Fischer andP.
Siple, editors, Theoretical Issues in Sign Language Re-search Vol 1, pages pp 37?65.
University of Chicago Press.I.
Marshall and ?E.
Sa?fa?r.
2001.
Extraction of semantic rep-resentations from syntactic cmu link grammar linkages.
InG.
Angelova, editor, Proceedings of Recent Advances inNatural Lanugage Processing, pages pp 154?159, TzigovChark, Bulgaria, Sept.C.
Neidle, J. Kegl, D. MacLaughlin, B. Bahan, and R.G.
Lee.2000.
The Syntax of American Sign Language.
MIT Press.S.
Prillwitz, R. Leven, H. Zienert, T. Hanke, J. Henning, et al1989.
Hamburg Notation System for Sign Languages - AnIntroductory Guide.
International Studies on Sign Languageand the Communication of the Deaf, Volume 5., Instituteof German Sign Language and Communication of the Deaf,University of Hamburg.?E.
Sa?fa?r and I. Marshall.
2001.
The architecture of an english-text-to-sign-languages translation system.
In G. Angelova,editor, Recent Advances in Natural Language Processing(RANLP), pages pp223?228.
Tzigov Chark, Bulgaria.?E.
Sa?fa?r and I. Marshall.
2002.
Sign language translation viadrt and hpsg.
In A. Gelbukh (Ed.)
Procieedings of the ThirdInternational Conference on Intelligent Text Processing andComputational Linguistics , CICLing, Mexico, Lecture Notesin Computer Science 2276, pages pp58?68, Springer Verlag,Mexico.D.
Sleator and D. Temperley.
1991.
Parsing English with aLink Grammar.
Carnegie Mellon University Computer Sci-ence technical report CMU-CS-91-196.W.C.
Stokoe.
1978.
Sign language structure.
(2nd ed.).
SilverSpring, MD: Linstok Press.R.
Sutton-Spence and B. Woll.
1999.
The Linguistics of BritishSign Language.
An Introduction.
University Press, Cam-bridge.
