Extracting Regulatory Gene Expression Networks from PubMedJasmin ?Saric?EML Research gGmbHHeidelberg, Germanysaric@eml-r.orgLars J. JensenEMBLHeidelberg, Germanyjensen@embl.deRossitza OuzounovaEMBLHeidelberg, Germanyouzounov@embl.deIsabel RojasEML Research gGmbHHeidelberg, Germanyrojas@eml-r.orgPeer BorkEMBLHeidelberg, Germanybork@embl.deAbstractWe present an approach using syntacto-semantic rules for the extraction of rela-tional information from biomedical ab-stracts.
The results show that by over-coming the hurdle of technical termi-nology, high precision results can beachieved.
From abstracts related tobaker?s yeast, we manage to extract aregulatory network comprised of 441pairwise relations from 58,664 abstractswith an accuracy of 83?90%.
To achievethis, we made use of a resource ofgene/protein names considerably largerthan those used in most other biology re-lated information extraction approaches.This list of names was included in thelexicon of our retrained part-of-speechtagger for use on molecular biology ab-stracts.
For the domain in question anaccuracy of 93.6?97.7% was attained onPOS-tags.
The method is easily adaptedto other organisms than yeast, allowingus to extract many more biologically rel-evant relations.1 Introduction and related workA massive amount of information is buried inscientific publications (more than 500,000 pub-lications per year).
Therefore, the need for in-formation extraction (IE) and text mining in thelife sciences is drastically increasing.
Most ofthe ongoing work is being dedicated to deal withPubMed1 abstracts.
The technical terminology ofbiomedicine presents the main challenge of apply-ing IE to such a corpus (Hobbs, 2003).The goal of our work is to extract from bio-logical abstracts which proteins are responsiblefor regulating the expression (i.e.
transcription ortranslation) of which genes.
This means to extracta specific type of pairwise relations between bio-logical entities.
This differs from the BioCreAtIvEcompetition tasks2 that aimed at classifying en-tities (gene products) into classes based on GeneOntology (Ashburner et al, 2000).A task closely related to ours, which has re-ceived some attention over the past five years,is the extraction of protein?protein interactionsfrom abstracts.
This problem has mainly been ad-dressed by statistical ?bag of words?
approaches(Marcotte et al, 2001), with the notable exceptionof Blaschke et al (1999).
All of the approachesdiffer significantly from ours by only attemptingto extract the type of interaction and the partici-pating proteins, disregarding agens and patiens.Most NLP based studies tend to have been fo-cused on extraction of events involving one par-ticular verb, e.g.
bind (Thomas et al, 2000) or in-hibit (Pustejovsky et al, 2002).
From a biologicalpoint of view, there are two problems with suchapproaches: 1) the meaning of the extracted events1PubMed is a bibliographic database covering life sci-ences with a focus on biomedicine, comprising around 12 ?106 articles, roughly half of them including abstract (http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/PubMed/).2Critical Assessment of Information Extraction sys-tems in Biology, http://www.mitre.org/public/biocreative/will depend strongly on the selectional restrictionsand 2) the same meaning can be expressed usinga number of different verbs.
In contrast and alike(Friedman et al, 2001), we instead set out to han-dle only one specific biological problem and, inreturn, extract the related events with their wholerange of syntactic variations.The variety in the biological terminology usedto describe regulation of gene expression presentsa major hurdle to an IE approach; in many casesthe information is buried to such an extent thateven a human reader is unable to extract it unlesshaving a scientific background in biology.
In thispaper we will show that by overcoming the termi-nological barrier, high precision extraction of en-tity relations can be achieved within the field ofmolecular biology.2 The biological task and our approachTo extract relations, one should first recognizethe named entities involved.
This is particu-larly difficult in molecular biology where manyforms of variation frequently occur.
Synonymyis very common due to lack of standardization ofgene names; BYP1, CIF1, FDP1, GGS1, GLC6,TPS1, TSS1, and YBR126C are all synonyms forthe same gene/protein.
Additionally, these namesare subject to orthographic variation originatingfrom differences in capitalization and hyphenationas well as syntactic variation of multiword terms(e.g.
riboflavin synthetase beta chain = beta chainof riboflavin synthetase).
Moreover, many namesare homonyms since a gene and its gene productare usually named identically, causing cross-overof terms between semantic classes.
Finally, para-grammatical variations are more frequent in lifescience publications than in common English dueto the large number of publications by non-nativespeakers (Netzel et al, 2003).Extracting that a protein regulates the expres-sion of a gene is a challenging problem as this factcan be expressed in a variety of ways?possiblymentioning neither the biological process (expres-sion) nor any of the two biological entities (genesand proteins).
Figure 1 shows a simplified ontol-ogy providing an overview of the biological en-tities involved in gene expression, their ontologi-cal relationships, and how they can interact withGeneTranscriptGeneproductStableRNAPromoterBindingsiteUpstreamactivatingsequenceUpstreamrepressingsequencemRNA ProteinTranscriptionregulatorTranscriptionactivatorTranscriptionrepressoris apart ofproducesbinds toFigure 1: A simplified ontology for transcrip-tion regulation.
The background color used foreach term signifies its semantic role in relations:regulator (white), target (black), or either (gray).one another.
An ontology is a great help whenwriting extraction rules, as it immediately sug-gests a large number of relevant relations to beextracted.
Examples include ?promoter containsupstream activating sequence?
and ?transcriptionregulator binds to promoter?, both of which fol-low from indirect relationships via binding site.It is often not known whether the regulationtakes place at the level of gene transcription ortranslation or by an indirect mechanism.
For thisreason, and for simplicity, we decided against try-ing to extract how the regulation of expressiontakes place.
We do, however, strictly require thatthe extracted relations provide information about aprotein (the regulator, R) regulating the expressionof a gene (the target, X), for which reason three re-quirements must be fulfilled:1.
It must be ascertained that the sentence men-tions gene expression.
?The protein R acti-vates X?
fails this requirement, as R mightinstead activate X post-translationally.
Thus,whether the event should be extracted or notdepends on the type of the accusative objectX (e.g.
gene or gene product).
Without a headnoun specifying the type, X remains ambigu-ous, leaving the whole relation underspeci-fied, for which reason it should not be ex-tracted.
It should be noted that two thirds ofthe gene/protein names mentioned in our cor-pus are ambiguous for this reason.2.
The identity of the regulator (R) must beknown.
?The X promoter activates X ex-pression?
fails this requirement, as it is notknown which transcription factor activatesthe expression when binding to the X pro-moter.
Linguistically this implies that nounchunks of certain semantic types should bedisallowed as agens.3.
The identity of the target (X) must be known.
?The transcription factor R activates R de-pendent expression?
fails this requirement, asit is not know which gene?s expression is de-pendent on R. The semantic types allowed forpatiens should thus also be restricted.The two last requirements are important to avoidextraction from non-informative sentences that?despite them containing no information?occurquite frequently in scientific abstracts.
The color-ing of the entities in Figure 1 helps discern whichrelations are meaningful and which are not.The ability to genetically modify an organism inexperiments brings about further complication toIE: biological texts often mention what takes placewhen an organism is artificially modified in a par-ticular way.
In some cases such modification canreverse part of the meaning of the verb: from thesentence ?Deletion of R increased X expression?one can conclude that R represses expression ofX.
The key point is to identify that ?deletion ofR?
implies that the sentence describes an exper-iment in which R has been removed, but that Rwould normally be present and that the biologicalimpact of R is thus the opposite of what the verbincreased alone would suggest.
In other cases theverb will lose part of its meaning: ?Mutation ofR increased X expression?
implies that R regu-lates expression X, but we cannot infer whetherR is an activator or a repressor.
In this case mu-tation is dealt in a manner similar to deletion inthe previous example.
Finally, there are those re-lations that should be completely avoided as theyexist only because they have been artificially in-troduced through genetic engineering.
In our ex-traction method we address all three cases.We have opted for a rule based approach (im-plemented as finite state automata) to extract therelations for two reasons.
The first is, that a rulebased approach allows us to directly ensure thatthe three requirements stated above are fulfilledfor the extracted relations.
This is desired to attainhigh accuracy on the extracted relations, which iswhat matters to the biologist.
Hence, we focus inour evaluation on the semantic correctness of ourmethod rather than on its grammatical correctness.As long as grammatical errors do not result in se-mantic errors, we do not consider it an error.
Con-versely, even a grammatically correct extraction isconsidered an error if it is semantically wrong.Our second reason for choosing a rule based ap-proach is that our approach is theory-driven andhighly interdisciplinary, involving computationallinguists, bioinformaticians, and biologists.
Therule based approach allows us to benefit morefrom the interplay of scientists with different back-grounds, as known biological constraints can beexplicitly incorporated in the extraction rules.3 MethodsTable 1 shows an overview of the architecture ofour IE system.
It is organized in levels such thatthe output of one level is the input of the next one.The following sections describe each level in de-tail.3.1 The corpusThe PubMed resource was downloaded on Jan-uary 19, 2004.
58,664 abstracts related to theyeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae were extractedby looking for occurrences of the terms ?Sac-charomyces cerevisiae?, ?S.
cerevisiae?, ?Baker?syeast?, ?Brewer?s yeast?, and ?Budding yeast?
inthe title/abstract or as head of a MeSH term3.These abstracts were filtered to obtain the 15,777that mention at least two names (see section 3.4)and subsequently divided into a training and anevaluation set of 9137 and 6640 abstracts respec-tively.3Medical Subject Headings (MeSH) is a controlled vo-cabulary for manually annoting PubMed articles.Level ComponentL0 Tokenization and multiwordsWord and sentence boundaries are de-tected and multiwords are recognizedand recomposed to one token.L1 POS-TaggingA part-of-speech tag is assigned to eachword (or multiword) of the tokenizedcorpus.L2 Semantic labelingA manually built taxonomy is used toassign semantic labels to tokens.
Thetaxonomy consists of gene names, cuewords relevant for entity recognition,and classes of verbs for relation extrac-tion.L3 Named entity chunkingBased on the POS-tags and the se-mantic labels, a cascaded chunk gram-mar recognizes noun chunks relevantfor the gene transcription domain, e.g.
[nxgene The GAL4 gene ].L4 Relation chunkingRelations between entities are recog-nized, e.g.
The expression of the cy-tochrome genes CYC1 and CYC7 iscontrolled by HAP1.L5 Output and visualizationInformation is gathered from the recog-nised patterns and transformed intopre-defined records.
From the examplein L4 we extract that HAP1 regulatesthe expression of CYC1 and CYC7.Table 1: Overview over the extraction architecture3.2 Tokenization and multiword detectionThe process of tokenization consists of two steps(Grefenstette and Tapanainen, 1994): segmenta-tion of the input text into a sequence of tokensand the detection of sentential boundaries.
Weuse the tokenizer developed by Helmut Schmid atIMS (University of Stuttgart) because it combinesa high accuracy (99.56% on the Brown corpus)with unsupervised learning (i.e.
no manually la-belled data is needed) (Schmid, 2000).The determination of token boundaries in tech-nical or scientific texts is one of the main chal-lenges within information extraction or retrieval.On the one hand, technical terms contain spe-cial characters such as brackets, colons, hyphens,slashes, etc.
On the other hand, they often ap-pear as multiword expressions which makes ithard to detect the left and right boundaries ofthe terms.
Although a lot of work has been in-vested in the detection of technical terms withinbiology related texts (see Nenadic?
et al (2003) orYamamoto et al (2003) for representative results)this task is not yet solved to a satisfying extent.
Aswe are interested in very special terms and highprecision results we opted for multiword detectionbased on semi-automatical acquisition of multi-words (see sections 3.4 and 3.5).3.3 Part-of-speech taggingTo improve the accuracy of POS-tagging onPubMed abstracts, TreeTagger (Schmid, 1994)was retrained on the GENIA 3.0 corpus (Kim etal., 2003).
Furthermore, we expanded the POS-tagger lexicon with entries relevant for our appli-cation such as gene names (see section 3.4) andmultiwords (see section 3.5).
As tag set we usethe UPenn tag set (Santorini, 1991) plus some mi-nor extensions for distinguishing auxiliary verbs.The GENIA 3.0 corpus consists of PubMed ab-stracts and has 466,179 manually annotated to-kens.
For our application we made two changesin the annotation.
The first one concerns seem-ingly undecideable cases like in/or annotated asin|cc.
These were split into three tokens: in, /,and or each annotated with its own tag.
This wasdone because TreeTagger is not able to annotatetwo POS-tags for one token.
The second set ofchanges was to adapt the tag set so that vb... isused for derivates of to be, vh... for derivates ofto have, and vv... for all other verbs.3.4 Recognizing gene/protein namesTo be able to recognize gene/protein names assuch, and to associate them with the appropri-ate database identifiers, a list of synonymousnames and identifiers in six eukaryotic modelorganisms was compiled from several sources(available from http://www.bork.embl.de/synonyms/).
For S. cerevisiae specifically,51,640 uniquely resolvable names and identi-fiers were obtained from Saccharomyces GenomeDatabase (SGD) and SWISS-PROT (Dwight et al,2002; Boeckmann et al, 2003).Before matching these names against the POS-tagged corpus, the list of names was expandedto include different orthographic variants of eachname.
Firstly, the names were allowed to havevarious combinations of uppercase and lowercaseletters: all uppercase, all lowercase, first letter up-percase, and (for multiword names) first letter ofeach word uppercase.
In each of these versions,we allowed whitespace to be replaced by hyphen,and hyphen to be removed or replaced by whites-pace.
In addition, from each gene name a possibleprotein name was generated by appending the let-ter p. The resulting list containing all orthographicvariations comprises 516,799 entries.The orthographically expanded name list wasfed into the multiword detection, the POS-taggerlexicon, and was subsequently matched against thePOS-tagged corpus to retag gene/protein names assuch (nnpg).
By accepting only matches to wordstagged as common nouns (nn), the problem ofhomonymy was reduced since e.g.
the name MAPcan occur as a verb as well.3.5 Semantic taggingIn addition to the recognition of the gene and pro-tein names, we recognize several other terms andannotate them with semantic tags.
This set of se-mantically relevant terms mainly consists of nounsand verbs, as well as some few prepositions likefrom, or adjectives like dependent.
The first mainset of terms consists of nouns, which are classifiedas follows:?
Relevant concepts in our ontology: gene,protein, promoter, binding site, transcriptionfactor, etc.
(153 entries).?
Relational nouns, like nouns of activation(e.g.
derepression and positive regulation),nouns of repression (e.g.
suppression andnegative regulation), nouns of regulation (e.g.affect and control) (69 entries).?
Triggering experimental (artificial) contexts:mutation, deletion, fusion, defect, vector,plasmids, etc.
(11 entries).?
Enzymes: gyrase, kinase, etc.
(569 entries).?
Organism names extracted from the NCBItaxonomy of organisms (Wheeler et al,2004) (20,746 entries).The second set of terms contains 50 verbs and theirinflections.
They were classified according to theirrelevance in gene transcription.
These verbs arecrucial for the extraction of relations between en-tities:?
Verbs of activation e.g.
enhance, increase, in-duce, and positively regulate.?
Verbs of repression e.g.
block, decrease,downregulate, and down regulate.?
Verbs of regulation e.g.
affect and control.?
Other selected verbs like code (or encode)and contain where given their own tags.Each of the terms consisting of more than oneword was utilized for multiword recognition.We also have have two additional classes ofwords to prevent false positive extractions.
Thefirst contains words of negation, like not, cannot,etc.
The other contains nouns that are to be distin-guished from other common nouns to avoid thembeing allowed within named entitities, e.g.
alleleand diploid.3.6 Extraction of named entitiesIn the preceding steps we classified relevant nounsaccording to semantic criteria.
This allows us tochunk noun phrases generalizing over both POS-tags and semantic tags.
Syntacto-semantic chunk-ing was performed to recognize named entities us-ing cascades of finite state rules implemented as aCASS grammar (Abney, 1996).
As an example werecognize gene noun phrases:[nx gene[dt the][nnpg CYC1][gene gene][in in][yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae]]Other syntactic variants, as for example ?the glu-cokinase gene GLK1?
are recognized too.
Simi-larly, we detect at this early level noun chunks de-noting other biological entities such as proteins,activators, repressors, transcription factors etc.Subsequently, we recognize more complexnoun chunks on the basis of the simpler ones,e.g.
promoters, upstream activating/repressing se-quences (UAS/URS), binding sites.
At this pointit becomes important to distinguish between agensand patiens forms of certain entities.
Since a bind-ing site is part of a target gene, it can be referred toeither by the name of this gene or by the name ofthe regulator protein that binds to it.
It is thus nec-essary to discriminate between ?binding site of?and ?binding site for?.As already mentioned, we have annotated aclass of nouns that trigger experimental context.On the basis of these we identify noun chunksmentioning, as for example deletion, mutation, oroverexpression of genes.
At a fairly late stage werecognize events that can occur as arguments forverbs like ?expression of?.3.7 Extraction of relations between entitiesThis step of processing concerns the recognitionof three types of relations between the recognizednamed entities: up-regulation, down-regulation,and (underspecified) regulation of expression.
Wecombine syntactic properties (subcategorizationrestrictions) and semantic properties (selectionalrestrictions) of the relevant verbs to map them toone of the three relation types.The following shows a reduced bracketed struc-ture consting of three parts, a promoter chunk, averbal complex chunk, and a UAS chunk in pa-tiens:[nx prom the ATR1 promoter region][contain contains][nx uas pt[dt?a a] [bs binding site] [for for][nx activator the GCN4 activator protein]].From this we extract that the GCN4 protein acti-vates the expression of the ATR1 gene.
We iden-tify passive constructs too e.g.
?RNR1 expressionis reduced by CLN1 or CLN2 overexpression?.
Inthis case we extract two pairwise relations, namelythat both CLN1 and CLN2 down-regulate the ex-pression of the RNR1 gene.
We also identify nom-inalized relations as exemplified by ?the bindingof GCN4 protein to the SER1 promoter in vitro?.4 ResultsUsing our relation extraction rules, we were ableto extract 422 relation chunks from our com-plete corpus.
Since one entity chunk can men-tion several different named entities, these corre-sponded to a total of 597 extracted pairwise rela-tions.
However, as several relation chunks maymention the same pairwise relations, this reducesto 441 unique pairwise relations comprised of 126up-regulations, 90 down-regulations, and 225 reg-ulations of unknown direction.Figure 2 displays these 441 relations as a regu-latory network in which the nodes represent genesor proteins and the arcs are expression regulationrelations.
Known transcription factors accordingto the Saccharomyces Genome Database (SGD)(Dwight et al, 2002) are denoted by black nodes.From a biological point of view, it is reassuringthat these tend to correspond to proteins servingas regulators in our relations.Figure 2: The extracted network of gene regu-lation The extracted relations are shown as a di-rected graph, in which each node corresponds to agene or protein and each arc represents a pairwiserelation.
The arcs point from the regulator to thetarget and the type of regulation is specified by thetype of arrow head.
Known transcription factorsare highlighted as black nodes.4.1 Evaluation of relation extractionTo evaluate the accuracy of the extracted relation,we manually inspected all relations extracted fromthe evaluation corpus using the TIGERSearch vi-sualization tool (Lezius, 2002).The accuracy of the relations was evaluated atthe semantic rather than the grammatical level.
Wethus carried out the evaluation in such a way thatrelations were counted as correct if they extractedthe correct biological conclusion, even if the anal-ysis of the sentence is not as to be desired froma linguistic point of view.
Conversely, a relationwas counted as an error if the biological conclu-sion was wrong.75 of the 90 relation chunks (83%) extractedfrom the evaluation corpus were entirely correct,meaning that the relation corresponded to expres-sion regulation, the regulator (R) and the regulatee(X) were correctly identified, and the direction ofregulation (up or down) was correct if extracted.Further 6 relation chunks extracted the wrong di-rection of regulation but were otherwise correct;our accuracy increases to 90% if allowing for thisminor type of error.
Approximately half of the er-rors made by our method stem from overlookedgenetic modifications?although mentioned in thesentence, the extracted relation is not biologicallyrelevant.4.2 Entity recognitionFor the sake of consistency, we have also evaluatedour ability to correctly identify named entities atthe level of semantic rather than grammatical cor-rectness.
Manual inspection of 500 named enti-ties from the evaluation corpus revealed 14 errors,which corresponds to an estimated accuracy of justover 97%.
Surprisingly, many of these errors werecommited when recognizing proteins, for whichour accuracy was only 95%.
Phrases such as?telomerase associated protein?
(which got con-fused with ?telomerase protein?
itself) were re-sponsible for about half of these errors.Among the 153 entities involved in relations noerrors were detected, which is fewer than expectedfrom our estimated accuracy on entity recogni-tion (99% confidence according to hypergeomet-ric test).
This suggests that the templates used forrelation extraction are unlikely to match those sen-tence constructs on which the entity recognitiongoes wrong.
False identification of named entitiesare thus unlikely to have an impact on the accuracyof relation extraction.4.3 POS-tagging and tokenizationWe compared the POS-tagging performance oftwo parameter files on 55,166 tokens from the GE-NIA corpus that were not used for retraining.
Us-ing the retrained tagger, 93.6% of the tokens werecorrectly tagged, 4.1% carried questionable tags(e.g.
confusing proper nouns for common nouns),and 2.3% were clear tagging errors.
This com-pares favourably to the 85.7% correct, 8.5% ques-tionable tags, and 5.8% errors obtained when us-ing the Standard English parameter file.
Retrain-ing thus reduced the error rate more than two-fold.Of 198 sentences evaluated, the correct sen-tence boundary was detected in all cases.
In ad-dition, three abbreviations incorrectly resulted insentence marker, corresponding to an overall pre-cision of 98.5%.5 ConclusionsWe have developed a method that allows us to ex-tract information on regulation of gene expressionfrom biomedical abstracts.
This is a highly rel-evant biological problem, since much is knownabout it although this knowledge has yet to be col-lected in a database.
Also, knowledge on howgene expression is regulated is crucial for inter-preting the enormous amounts of gene expressiondata produced by high-throughput methods likespotted microarrays and GeneChips.Although we developed and evaluated ourmethod on abstracts related to baker?s yeast only,we have successfully applied the method to otherorganisms including humans (to be published else-where).
The main adaptation required was to re-place the list of synonymous gene/protein namesto reflect the change of organism.
Furthermore,we also intend to reuse the recognition of namedentities to extract other, specific types of interac-tions between biological entities.AcknowledgmentsThe authors wish to thank Sean Hooper for helpwith Figure 2.
Jasmin ?Saric?
is funded by the KlausTschira Foundation gGmbH, Heidelberg (http://www.kts.villa-bosch.de).
Lars JuhlJensen is funded by the Bundesministerium fu?rForschung und Bildung, BMBF-01-GG-9817.ReferencesS.
Abney.
1996.
Partial parsing via finite-state cas-cades.
In Proceedings of the ESSLLI ?96 RobustParsing Workshop, pages 8?15, Prague, Czech Re-public.M.
Ashburner, C. A.
Ball, J.
A. Blake, D. Botstein,H.
Butler, J. M. Cherry, A. P. Davis, K. Dolinski,S.
S. Dwight, J. T. Eppig, M. A. Harris, D. P. Hill,L.
Issel-Tarver, A. Kasarskis, S. Lewis, J. C. Matese,J.
E. Richardson, M. Ringwald, G. M. Rubin, andG.
Sherlock.
2000.
Gene Ontology: tool for theunification of biology.
Nature Genetics, 25:25?29.C.
Blaschke, M. A. Andrade, C. Ouzounis, and A. Va-lencia.
1999.
Automatic extraction of biological in-formation from scientific text: protein?protein inter-actions.
In Proc., Intelligent Systems for MolecularBiology, volume 7, pages 60?67, Menlo Park, CA.AAAI Press.B.
Boeckmann, A. Bairoch, R. Apweiler, M. C. Blat-ter, A. Estreicher, E. Gasteiger, M. J. Martin, K Mi-choud, C. O?Donovan, I. Phan, S. Pilbout, andM.
Schneider.
2003.
The SWISS-PROT pro-tein knowledgebase and its supplement TrEMBL in2003.
Nucleic Acids Res., 31:365?370.S.
S. Dwight, M. A. Harris, K. Dolinski, C. A. Ball,G.
Binkley, K. R. Christie, D. G. Fisk, L. Issel-Tarver, M. Schroeder, G. Sherlock, A. Sethuraman,S.
Weng, D. Botstein, and J. M. Cherry.
2002.
Sac-charomyces Genome Database (SGD) provides sec-ondary gene annotation using the Gene Ontology(GO).
Nucleic Acids Res., 30:69?72.C.
Friedman, P. Kra, H. Yu, M. Krauthammer, andA.
Rzhetsky.
2001.
GENIES: a natural-languageprocessing system for the extraction of molecularpathways from journal articles.
Bioinformatics, 17Suppl.
1:S74?S82.G.
Grefenstette and P. Tapanainen.
1994.
What is aword, what is a sentence?
problems of tokenization.In The 3rd International Conference on Computa-tional Lexicography, pages 79?87.J.
R. Hobbs.
2003.
Information extraction frombiomedical text.
J. Biomedical Informatics.J.-D. Kim, T. Ohta, Y. Tateisi, and J. Tsujii.
2003.
GE-NIA corpus?a semantically annotated corpus forbio-textmining.
Bioinformatics, 19 suppl.
1:i180?i182.W.
Lezius.
2002.
TIGERSearch?ein Suchwerkzeugfu?r Baumbanken.
In S. Busemann, editor, Proceed-ings der 6.
Konferenz zur Verarbeitung natrlicherSprache (KONVENS 2002), Saarbru?cken, Germany.E.
M. Marcotte, I. Xenarios, and D. Eisenberg.
2001.Mining literature for protein?protein interactions.Bioinformatics, 17:359?363.G.
Nenadic?, S. Rice, I.
Spasic?, S. Ananiadou, andB.
Stapley.
2003.
Selecting text features for genename classification: from documents to terms.
InS.
Ananiadou and J. Tsujii, editors, Proceedings ofthe ACL 2003 Workshop on Natural Language Pro-cessing in Biomedicine, pages 121?128.R.
Netzel, Perez-Iratxeta C., P. Bork, and M. A. An-drade.
2003.
The way we write.
EMBO Rep.,4:446?451.J.
Pustejovsky, J. Castan?o, J. Zhang, M. Kotecki, andB.
Cochran.
2002.
Robust relational parsing overbiomedical literature: Extracting inhibit relations.In Proceedings of the Seventh Pacific Symposium onBiocomputing, pages 362?373, Hawaii.
World Sci-entific.B.
Santorini.
1991.
Part-of-speech tagging guidelinesfor the penn treebank project.
Technical report, Uni-versity of Pennsylvania.H.
Schmid.
1994.
Probabilistic part-of-speech taggingusing decision trees.
In International Conference onNew Methods in Language Processing, Manchester,UK.H.
Schmid.
2000.
Unsupervised learning of perioddisambiguation for tokenisation.
Technical report,Institut fr Maschinelle Sprachverarbeitung, Univer-sity of Stuttgart.J.
Thomas, D. Milward, C. Ouzounis, S. Pulman, andM.
Carroll.
2000.
Automatic extraction of proteininteractions from scientific abstracts.
In Proceed-ings of the Fifth Pacific Symposium on Biocomput-ing, pages 707?709, Hawaii.
World Scientific.D.
L. Wheeler, D. M. Church, R. Edgar, S. Feder-hen, W. Helmberg, Madden T. L., Pontius J.U., Schuler G. D., Schriml L. M., E. Sequeira,T.
O. Suzek, T. A. Tatusova, and L. Wagner.2004.
Database resources of the national center forbiotechnology information: update.
Nucleic AcidsRes., 32:D35?40.K.
Yamamoto, T. Kudo, A. Konagaya, and Y. Mat-sumoto.
2003.
Protein name tagging for biomedi-cal annotation in text.
In S. Ananiadou and J. Tsujii,editors, Proceedings of the ACL 2003 Workshop onNatural Language Processing in Biomedicine, pages65?72.
