Finding Anchor Verbs for Biomedical IEUsing Predicate-Argument StructuresAkane YAKUSHIJI?
Yuka TATEISI??
Yusuke MIYAO?
?Department of Computer Science, University of TokyoHongo 7-3-1, Bunkyo-ku, Tokyo 113-0033 JAPAN?CREST, JST (Japan Science and Technology Agency)Honcho 4-1-8, Kawaguchi-shi, Saitama 332-0012 JAPAN{akane,yucca,yusuke,tsujii}@is.s.u-tokyo.ac.jpJun?ichi TSUJII?
?AbstractFor biomedical information extraction, most sys-tems use syntactic patterns on verbs (anchor verbs)and their arguments.
Anchor verbs can be se-lected by focusing on their arguments.
We proposeto use predicate-argument structures (PASs), whichare outputs of a full parser, to obtain verbs and theirarguments.
In this paper, we evaluated PAS methodby comparing it to a method using part of speech(POSs) pattern matching.
POS patterns producedlarger results with incorrect arguments, and the re-sults will cause adverse effects on a phase selectingappropriate verbs.1 IntroductionResearch in molecular-biology field is discoveringenormous amount of new facts, and thus there isan increasing need for information extraction (IE)technology to support database building and to findnovel knowledge in online journals.To implement IE systems, we need to constructextraction rules, i.e., rules to extract desired infor-mation from processed resource.
One subtask of theconstruction is defining a set of anchor verbs, whichexpress realization of desired information in naturallanguage text.In this paper, we propose a novel method offinding anchor verbs: extracting anchor verbs frompredicate-argument structures (PASs) obtained byfull parsing.
We here discuss only finding anchorverbs, although our final purpose is constructionof extraction rules.
Most anchor verbs take topi-cal nouns, i.e., nouns describing target entities forIE, as their arguments.
Thus verbs which take top-ical nouns can be candidates for anchor verbs.
Ourmethod collects anchor verb candidates by choosingPASs whose arguments are topical nouns.
Then, se-mantically inappropriate verbs are filtered out.
Weleave this filtering phase as a future work, and dis-cuss the acquisition of candidates.
We have also in-vestigated difference in verbs and their argumentsextracted by naive POS patterns and PAS method.When anchor verbs are found based on whethertheir arguments are topical nouns, like in (Hatzivas-siloglou and Weng, 2002), it is important to obtaincorrect arguments.
Thus, in this paper, we set ourgoal to obtain anchor verb candidates and their cor-rect arguments.2 BackgroundThere are some works on acquiring extraction rulesautomatically.
Sudo et al (2003) acquired subtreesderived from dependency trees as extraction rulesfor IE in general domains.
One problem of their sys-tem is that dependency trees cannot treat non-localdependencies, and thus rules acquired from the con-structions are partial.
Hatzivassiloglou and Weng(2002) used frequency of collocation of verbs andtopical nouns and verb occurrence rates in severaldomains to obtain anchor verbs for biological inter-action.
They used only POSs and word positionsto detect relations between verbs and topical nouns.Their performance was 87.5% precision and 82.4%recall.
One of the reasons of errors they reported isfailures to detect verb-noun relations.To avoid these problems, we decided to use PASsobtained by full parsing to get precise relations be-tween verbs and their arguments.
The obtained pre-cise relations will improve precision.
In addition,PASs obtained by full parsing can treat non-localdependencies, thus recall will also be improved.The sentence below is an example which sup-ports advantage of full parsing.
A gerund ?activat-ing?
takes a non-local semantic subject ?IL-4?.
Infull parsing based on Head-Driven Phrase StructureGrammar (HPSG) (Sag and Wasow, 1999), the sub-ject of the whole sentence and the semantic subjectof ?activating?
are shared, and thus we can extractthe subject of ?activating?.IL-4 may mediate its biological effects by activat-ing a tyrosine-phosphorylated DNA binding pro-tein.interactsARG1 it1 withMODIFYARG1      regions21ofMODIFYARG1 molecules2,,(a) (b) (c)It interacts with non-polymorphic regions of major his-tocompatibility complex class II molecules.Figure 1: PAS exampleswithMODIFYinteractsARG1 itARG1 regionsCore verbservesARG1      IL-51ARG2toARG1ARG2stimulateARG1ARG2 binding1Core verb1Figure 2: Core verbs of PASs3 Anchor Verb Finding by PASsBy using PASs, we extract candidates for anchorverbs from a sentence in the following steps:1.
Obtain all PASs of a sentence by a fullparser.
The PASs correspond not only to verbalphrases but also other phrases such as preposi-tional phrases.2.
Select PASs which take one or more topicalnouns as arguments.3.
From the selected PASs in Step 2, select PASswhich include one or more verbs.4.
Extract a core verb, which is the innermost ver-bal predicate, from each of the chosen PASs.In Step 1, we use a probabilistic HPSG parserdeveloped by Miyao et al (2003), (2004).
PASsobtained by the parser are illustrated in Figure 1.1Bold words are predicates.
Arguments of the predi-cates are described in ARGn (n = 1, 2, .
.
.).
MOD-IFY denotes the modified PAS.
Numbers in squaresdenote shared structures.
Examples of core verbsare illustrated in Figure 2.
We regard all argumentsin a PAS are arguments of the core verb.Extraction of candidates for anchor verbs fromthe sentence in Figure 1 is as follows.
Here, ?re-gions?
and ?molecules?
are topical nouns.In Step 1, we obtain all the PASs, (a), (b) and (c),in Figure 1.1Here, named entities are regarded as chunked, and thusinternal structures of noun phrases are not illustrated.Next, in Step 2, we check each argument of (a),(b) and (c).
(a) is discarded because it does not havea topical noun argument.2 (b) is selected becauseARG1 ?regions?
is a topical noun.
Similarly, (c) isselected because of ARG1 ?molecules?.And then, in Step 3, we check each POS of apredicate included in (b) and (c).
(b) is selected be-cause it has the verb ?interacts?
in 1 which sharesthe structure with (a).
(c) is discarded because itincludes no verbs.Finally, in Step 4, we extract a core verb from (b).
(b) includes 1 asMODIFY, and the predicate of 1is the verb, ?interacts?.
So we extract it.4 ExperimentsWe investigated the verbs and their arguments ex-tracted by PAS method and POS pattern matching,which is less expressive in analyzing sentence struc-tures but would be more robust.For topical nouns and POSs, we used the GENIAcorpus (Kim et al, 2003), a corpus of annotated ab-stracts taken from National Library of Medicine?sMEDLINE database.
We defined topical nouns asthe names tagged as protein, peptide, amino acid,DNA, RNA, or nucleic acid.
We chose PASs whichtake one or more topical nouns as an argument orarguments, and substrings matched by POS patternswhich include topical nouns.
All names tagged inthe corpus were replaced by their head nouns inorder to reduce complexity of sentences and thusreduce the task of the parser and the POS patternmatcher.4.1 Implementation of PAS methodWe implemented PAS method on LiLFeS, aunification-based programming system for typedfeature structures (Makino et al, 1998; Miyao et al,2000).The selection in Step 2 described in Section 3is realized by matching PASs with nine PAS tem-plates.
Four of the templates are illustrated in Fig-ure 3.4.2 POS Pattern MethodWe constructed a POS pattern matcher with a par-tial verb chunking function according to (Hatzivas-siloglou and Weng, 2002).
Because the originalmatcher has problems in recall (its verb group de-tector has low coverage) and precision (it does notconsider other words to detect relations betweenverb groups and topical nouns), we implemented2(a) may be selected if the anaphora (?it?)
is resolved.
Butwe regard anaphora resolving is too hard task as a subprocessof finding anchor verbs.
*any*ARG1 N1N1 = topical noun*any*ARG1 N1ARG2 N2N1 = topical nounor N2 = topical noun?
?
*any*MODIFY *any*ARG1 N1N1 = topical noun*any*MODIFY *any*ARG1 N1ARG2 N2N1 = topical nounor N2 = topical nounFigure 3: PAS templatesN ?
V G ?
NN ?
V GV G ?
NN : is a topical nounV G: is a verb group which is accepted by a finite statemachine described in (Hatzivassiloglou andWeng, 2002)or one of {VB, VBD, VBG, VBN, VBP, VBZ}?
: is 0?4 tokens which do not include {FW, NN, NNS,NNP, NNPS, PRP, VBG, WP, *}(Parts in Bold letters are added to the patterns of Hatzi-vassiloglou and Weng (2002).
)Figure 4: POS patternsour POS pattern matcher as a modified version ofone in (Hatzivassiloglou and Weng, 2002).Figure 4 shows patterns in our experiment.
Thelast verb of V G is extracted if all of Ns are topicalnouns.
Non-topical nouns are disregarded.
Addingcandidates for verb groups raises recall of obtainedrelations of verbs and their arguments.
Restrictionon intervening tokens to non-nouns raises the preci-sion, although it decreases the recall.4.3 Experiment 1We extracted last verbs of POS patterns and coreverbs of PASs with their arguments from 100 ab-stracts (976 sentences) of the GENIA corpus.
Wetook up not the verbs only but tuples of the verbsand their arguments (VAs), in order to estimate ef-fect of the arguments on semantical filtering.ResultsThe numbers of VAs extracted from the 100 ab-stracts using POS patterns and PASs are shown inTable 1.
(Total ?
VAs of verbs not extracted by theother method) are not the same, because more thanone VA can be extracted on a verb in a sentence.POS patterns method extracted more VAs, althoughPOS patterns PASsTotal 1127 766VAs of verbsnot extracted 478 105by the otherTable 1: Numbers of VAs extracted from the 100abstractsAppropriate Inappropriate TotalCorrect 43 12 55Incorrect 20 23 43Total 63 35 98Table 2: Numbers of VAs extracted by POS patterns(in detail)their correctness is not considered.4.4 Experiment 2For the first 10 abstracts (92 sentences), we man-ually investigated whether extracted VAs are syn-tactically or semantically correct.
The investigationwas based on two criteria: ?appropriateness?
basedon whether the extracted verb can be used for an an-chor verb and ?correctness?
based on whether thesyntactical analysis is correct, i.e., whether the ar-guments were extracted correctly.Based on human judgment, the verbs that rep-resent interactions, events, and properties were se-lected as semantically appropriate for anchor verbs,and the others were treated as inappropriate.
For ex-ample, ?identified?
in ?We identified ZEBRA pro-tein.?
is not appropriate and discarded.We did not consider non-topical noun argumentsfor POS pattern method, whereas we consideredthem for PAS method.
Thus decision on correctnessis stricter for PAS method.ResultsThe manual investigation results on extractedVAs from the 10 abstracts using POS patterns andPASs are shown in Table 2 and 3 respectively.POS patterns extracted more (98) VAs than PASs(75), but many of the increment were from incor-rect POS pattern matching.
By POS patterns, 43VAs (44%) were extracted based on incorrect anal-ysis.
On the other hand, by PASs, 20 VAs (27%)were extracted incorrectly.
Thus the ratio of VAsextracted by syntactically correct analysis is largeron PAS method.POS pattern method extracted 38 VAs of verbsnot extracted by PAS method and 7 of them are cor-rect.
For PAS method, correspondent numbers areAppropriate Inappropriate TotalCorrect 44 11 55Incorrect 14 6 20Total 58 17 75Table 3: Numbers of VAs extracted by PASs (in de-tail)11 and 4 respectively.
Thus the increments tend tobe caused by incorrect analysis, and the tendency isgreater in POS pattern method.Since not all of verbs that take topical nouns areappropriate for anchor verbs, automatic filtering isrequired.
In the filtering phase that we leave as afuture work, we can use semantical classes and fre-quencies of arguments of the verbs.
The results withsyntactically incorrect arguments will cause adverseeffect on filtering because they express incorrect re-lationship between verbs and arguments.
Since thenumbers of extracted VAs after excluding the oneswith incorrect arguments are the same (55) betweenPAS and POS pattern methods, it can be concludedthat the precision of PAS method is higher.
Al-though there are few (7) correct VAs which wereextracted by POS pattern method but not by PASmethod, we expect the number of such verbs can bereduced using a larger corpus.Examples of appropriate VAs extracted by onlyone method are as follows: (A) is correct and (B)incorrect, extracted by only POS pattern method,and (C) is correct and (D) incorrect, extracted byonly PAS method.
Bold words are extracted verbsor predicates and italic words their extracted argu-ments.
(A) This delay is associated with down-regulationof many erythroid cell-specific genes, includingalpha- and beta-globin, band 3, band 4.1, and .
.
.
.
(B) .
.
.
show that several elements in the .
.
.
region ofthe IL-2R alpha gene contribute to IL-1 respon-siveness, .
.
.
.
(C) The CD4 coreceptor interacts with non-polymorphic regions of .
.
.
molecules onnon-polymorphic cells and contributes to T cellactivation.
(D) Whereas activation of the HIV-1 enhancer follow-ing T-cell stimulation is mediated largely throughbinding of the .
.
.
factor NF-kappa B to two adja-cent kappa B sites in .
.
.
.5 ConclusionsWe have proposed a method of extracting anchorverbs as elements of extraction rules for IE by us-ing PASs obtained by full parsing.
To compareour method with more naive and robust methods,we have extracted verbs and their arguments usingPOS patterns and PASs.
POS pattern method couldobtain more candidate verbs for anchor verbs, butmany of them were extracted with incorrect argu-ments by incorrect matching.
A later filtering pro-cess benefits by precise relations between verbs andtheir arguments which PASs obtained.
The short-coming of PAS method is expected to be reduced byusing a larger corpus, because verbs to extract willappear many times in many forms.
One of the futureworks is to extend PAS method to handle events innominalized forms.AcknowledgementsThis work was partially supported by Grant-in-Aid for Scientific Research on Priority Areas (C)?Genome Information Science?
from the Ministryof Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technol-ogy of Japan.ReferencesVasileios Hatzivassiloglou and Wubin Weng.
2002.Learning anchor verbs for biological interactionpatterns from published text articles.
Interna-tional Journal of Medical Informatics, 67:19?32.Jin-Dong Kim, Tomoko Ohta, Yuka Teteisi, andJun?ichi Tsujii.
2003.
GENIA corpus ?
a se-mantically annotated corpus for bio-textmining.Bioinformatics, 19(suppl.
1):i180?i182.Takaki Makino, Minoru Yoshida, Kentaro Tori-sawa, and Jun-ichi Tsujii.
1998.
LiLFeS ?
to-wards a practical HPSG parser.
In Proceedingsof COLING-ACL?98.Yusuke Miyao, Takaki Makino, Kentaro Torisawa,and Jun-ichi Tsujii.
2000.
The LiLFeS abstractmachine and its evaluation with the LinGO gram-mar.
Natural Language Engineering, 6(1):47 ?61.Yusuke Miyao, Takashi Ninomiya, and Jun?ichiTsujii.
2003.
Probabilistic modeling of argumentstructures including non-local dependencies.
InProceedings of RANLP 2003, pages 285?291.Yusuke Miyao, Takashi Ninomiya, and Jun?ichiTsujii.
2004.
Corpus-oriented grammar develop-ment for acquiring a Head-driven Phrase Struc-ture Grammar from the Penn Treebank.
In Pro-ceedings of IJCNLP-04.Ivan A.
Sag and Thomas Wasow.
1999.
SyntacticTheory.
CSLI publications.Kiyoshi Sudo, Satoshi Sekine, and Ralph Grishman.2003.
An improved extraction pattern represen-tation model for automatic IE pattern acquisition.In Proceedings of ACL 2003, pages 224?231.
