Is Conceptual Combination Influenced by Word Order?Phil MaguireDepartment of Computer ScienceUniversity College DublinBelfield, Dublin 4, IrelandPhil.Maguire@ucd.ieArthur CaterDepartment of Computer ScienceUniversity College DublinBelfield, Dublin 4, IrelandArthur.Cater@ucd.ieAbstractWe describe two experiments using Frenchnoun-noun combinations which parallel astudy carried out by Gagn?
(2001) usingEnglish combinations.
The order of themodifier and head noun are reversed inFrench, allowing us to investigate whether theinfluence of relation priming that Gagn?
foundis due to the order of the modifier and headnoun or whether it is due to their differentfunctional roles.
While our findings indicatethat interpretation is influenced by previousexposure to combinations incorporating one ofthe same constituent nouns, the results showthat primes with the same modifier have agreater influence when associated with adifferent relation to the target.
This pattern ofinfluence is similar to that found in Englishand suggests that the modifier is exclusivelyinvolved in relation selection, irrespective ofits order in a combination.1 IntroductionThe combination of two existing words is aproductive strategy used by speakers to conveynew concepts and extend the limits of thevernacular.
The process of understanding thesenovel compounds is worthy of study, both becauseit is intimately associated with the creativity oflanguage use and because it provides a constraineddomain in which to test cognitive theories ofconceptual representation and languagecomprehension.
In English compounds, the firstword or modifier attaches further meaning to thesecond word or head, thus creating a reference tothe intended concept.
In order to interpret anominal compound such as ?mountain stream?,people must find a relation to link the compound?shead and modifier.
Several different theories havebeen proposed as to how people find the correctrelation with which to link the constituent nouns.Gagn?
and Shoben?s (1997) Competition AmongRelations In Nominals (CARIN) theory maintainsthat there is a fixed, relatively small taxonomy ofstandard relations that can be used to link themodifier and head noun concepts.
According tothis theory, the representation of the modifierconcept includes statistical knowledge about thoserelations with which the modifier tends to be usedduring conceptual combinations.
The mostavailable standard relation is the one mostfrequently used to interpret other compoundscontaining that same modifier.
For instance, themodifier ?mountain?
is most often associated withthe <head LOCATED modifier> relation thusmaking the combination ?mountain stream?
easierto interpret than ?mountain magazine?
which usesthe <head ABOUT modifier> relation.Important evidence in support of the CARINmodel is the finding that the modifier?s relationaldistribution influences the ease with which acombined concept can be interpreted.
Gagn?
andShoben (1997) found that combinations involvinga relation used frequently with the modifier wereeasier to interpret than combinations involving aless frequent relation, while the frequencydistribution of the head noun had no influence.This raises the question as to why it should be thecase that the frequencies of relations associatedwith the modifier affect ease of interpretation, butnot those of the head noun.
Gagn?
and Shoben(1997) suggest that the modifier may have more ofan influence than the head noun because it isencountered first and consequently highly frequentrelations for the modifier may become activatedprior to frequent relations for the head noun.
Asecond possibility they suggest is that the modifiernoun has certain associated properties which giveit a semantic privilege in determining the meaningof a combination.
One way to test both of thesehypotheses is to examine the interpretation ofcombinations in a language in which the order ofthe nouns is the reverse of that in English.
Weadopt such an approach by examining theinterpretation of combinations in the Frenchlanguage in order to determine which of the abovepossibilities can account for Gagn?
and Shoben?sfindings.The following experiments parallel a speededsensibility study by Gagn?
(2001) whichinvestigated the ways in which recent exposure to asimilar combination influences the processing of asubsequent combination.
Gagn?
found that whenthe prime and the target had the same head noun,there was no significant difference in reactiontimes between the cases where they shared thesame relation and cases where they did not.However, when the modifier was the repeatedconstituent, primes that used the same relationexerted more influence than those that used adifferent relation.
Thus, ?mountain stream?
wasmore effective than ?mountain magazine?
atpriming ?mountain goat?
while ?kitchen chair?and ?wood chair?
were equally effective atpriming ?garden chair?.
Gagn?
concluded thatwhen the prime and target share the same modifier,relation priming increases the availability of aselected relation within the modifier?s relationaldistribution.
We replicate Gagn?
?s study in Frenchin order to determine whether the same effect willbe observed.While conceptual combination in the Englishlanguage involves the straightforward juxtapositionof two nouns, combinations in French are made upof three separate elements, namely the head, themodifier and a linking preposition.
The prepositiongives some indication of the relation between thetwo concepts as different prepositions are usedwith different relations.
The three Frenchprepositions typically used are ?de?, ???
and?en?.
While the use of a preposition in French canbias the selection of a particular relation, we havecontrolled for this by choosing materialsexclusively associated with the ?de?
preposition,which can be used with almost all relations.Consequently this eliminates any alternativeinfluences on relation selection other than thoseexerted by the modifier and the head.2 Empirical StudyTwo separate experiments were carried out.
Inthe first, the prime had the same head as the targetand in the second, the modifier was the repeatedconstituent.
In both experiments, there were threeconditions.
In one condition the prime used thesame relation as the target; in another it used adifferent relation.
There was also a neutralcondition in which the target combination waspreceded by a combination with no common nounconstituent.
The experimental design follows thatof Gagn?
(2001) and facilitates the analysis of therelative amounts of priming derived from acombination containing the same head or the samemodifier as the target.
Priming was evaluated bycomparing each of the first two conditions with theneutral condition and by comparing response timesto target combinations in the same-relationcondition with response times to targetcombinations in the different-relation condition.2.1 MethodMaterials.
In both experiments, sixtycombined concepts were created as targets.
Foreach target combination, three prime combinationswere constructed.
One used the same relation asthe target and either the same head (experiment 1)or the same modifier (experiment 2).
Similarly,another combination used a different relation.
Thecontrol combination shared no noun constituentwith the target.
Three lists of stimuli were arrangedsuch that there was an equal number of each primetype in each list.
Across all three lists, each targetwas seen with each type of prime combination.Our materials were controlled for plausibility andfamiliarity.
Two raters scored the plausibility andfamiliarity of the referents of the primecombinations on a Likert scale from 1 to 7.
A two-sided Wilcoxon signed-ranks test revealed noreliable differences between conditions forplausibility, familiarity or average syllable length(p > 0.05).Procedure.
Each participant was exposed toone of the lists and hence saw each target item onlyonce.
The pairs of prime and target items werepresented in a randomised order along with 60filler pairs and the complete set of filler pairs waspresented to each individual.
Participants sat infront of a computer screen and placed the indexfinger of their left hand on the F key of thekeyboard and the index finger of their right handon the J key.
Participants were told that Jcorresponded to ?Juste?
and F corresponded to?Faux?.
Trial presentation was self-paced.Following exposure to the prime combination,participants indicated whether it had a sensible,literal interpretation by pressing the appropriatekey.
Subsequently, the target combination wassimilarly displayed and participants made anothersensibility judgment.
There was nothing in themethod of presentation to suggest any connectionbetween consecutive combinations.Participants.
36 native French speakersparticipated, 18 in each experiment (ages 20-31, M= 24.2).
This selection consisted of students andteachers based in Ireland.2.2 Results and Discussion9.1% of trials were excluded from the analysis.0.8% of trials were rejected because participantspressed a key other than J or F. Additionally, 4.6%of trials were excluded in cases where the response?faux?
was incorrectly given.
Responses deemedunreasonably fast (< 400ms; 0.2%) andunreasonably slow (> 4000ms; 0.9%) were alsoexcluded.
After eliminating all trials which did notmeet the above criteria, any response times whichwere more than three standard deviations outsideeach participant?s mean were also rejected.
Thiseliminated another 2.6% of responses.
A repeatedmeasures ANOVA test was conducted to examinethe effect of prime type on sense-nonsensejudgments for each experiment.
Tables 1 and 2display the response time (in milliseconds) forappropriate responses to the target combinations ineach of the experiments.PrimeSameHeadSameModifierSameRelationTargetResponseTime (ms)   994   999  NA 1 1153Table 1: Response Times (in milliseconds) forTarget Combinations in Experiment 1PrimeSameHeadSameModifierSameRelationTargetResponseTime (ms)   998   1043  NA 1062Table 2: Response Times (in milliseconds) forTarget Combinations in Experiment 2Evidence of priming.
Responses to the targetcombination were faster when the prime and targetshared a constituent noun.
In the first experiment,the 159ms difference between the same-relationand neutral conditions was reliable, Fsubject(1, 34) =31.70, p < .01; Fitem(1, 118) = 27.30, p < .01.
The154ms difference between the different-relationand neutral conditions was also reliable, Fsubject(1,34) = 22.22, p < .01; Fitem(1, 118) = 27.309, p <.01.
In the second experiment the 64 ms differencebetween the same-relation and neutral conditionswas reliable, Fsubject(2, 34) = 9.248, p < .05; Fitem(2,118) = 11.437, p < .05.
However, the 19 msdifference between the different-relation andneutral conditions was not reliable, Fsubject(2, 34) =.587,  p > .05; Fitem(2, 118) = .337, p > .05.Relation influence.
As predicted by the CARINtheory, the first experiment, in which the head wasthe repeated constituent, revealed no evidence ofrelation influence.
No significant difference wasfound between response times to target1The relation of the neutral condition was consideredirrelevant following Gagn?
?s (2001) finding thatpriming does not occur when the preceding combinationdoes not share either of the target?s constituent nounscombinations in the same-relation and in theneutral conditions.
The 5ms difference between thetwo conditions was not reliable (Fs < 1).
However,in the repeated modifier experiment the target waseasier to interpret when it was preceded by acombination with the same relation than when itwas preceded by one with a different relation.Participants responded to targets following thesame relation prime 45ms quicker than they did totargets following the different relation prime,Fsubject(2, 34) = 4.349,  p < .05; Fitem(2, 118) =4.194, p < .05.
These data indicate that Frenchspeakers are only sensitive to relationalinformation associated with the modifier.Summary.
The results of the two experimentsshow that the influence of a recently viewedcombination is affected by its relation only in caseswhere the target shares the same modifier(experiment 2) and not in cases where it shares thesame head (experiment 1).
Thus ?ruisseau demontagne?
(mountain stream) was more effectivethan ?chaussures de montagne?
(mountain shoes)at priming ?glacier de montagne?
(mountainglacier) while ?sac de voyage?
(travel bag) and?sac de cuir?
(leather bag) were equally effectiveat priming ?sac de sport?
(sports bag).
Theseresults are similar to those of Gagn?
(2001) and arethus consistent with research in the Englishlanguage indicating that relational information isassociated with the modifier and not with the headnoun.
Since these effects have been replicated in alanguage in which the order of the modifier andhead are reversed, this suggests that modifiers andhead nouns maintain the same role in the processof interpretation regardless of the order in whichthey are realised.
Our findings confirm thatrelational information is a tangible feature ofconceptual combinations and that the associationbetween the modifier and the relation is an intrinsicproperty that is evident regardless of the order ofthe constituent nouns.3 General DiscussionWhile our results correspond with those ofGagn?
(2001), we interpret them differently.
In herstudy Gagn?
distinguished two priming effects,namely lexical priming and relation priming.
Sheclaimed that when the head noun was repeated,only lexical priming was observed but that whenthe modifier was repeated, both types of primingwere evident.
This distinction is not necessary.
It issimpler to suppose that the repeated-modifierdifferent-relation condition exhibits an interferenceeffect which diminishes the effectiveness of lexicalpriming.
Such an interference could arise for tworeasons, neither of which requires an assumption ofrelation priming.
The first possibility is thatcombinations using a different relation elicit nopriming because a different sense of the modifier isassociated with each relation.
For example, theFrench term ?en chocolat?
(made of chocolate)has very different connotations to ??
chocolat?
(for chocolate) or ?de chocolat?
(of chocolate).While these terms employ the same modifier, theyeach have different meanings since the prepositionimmediately elucidates the modifying capacity ofthe noun.
Though the relation associated with amodifier in English may not be expressed in thesame way, the conceptual disparity is likely topersist nonetheless.
It is therefore conceivable thatthe relation with which the modifier is associatedcan change its meaning and as a result, onemodifier might not necessarily prime acombination using the same modifier in a differentsense.A second possibility is that the availability ofone meaning of a modifier is increased afterencountering a prime using it with that sense.When the same modifier is encountered being usedwith a different sense in the target, the originalsense is more accessible than the appropriate one.Hence, following the prime ?sel de mer?
(sea salt),participants may find it more difficult to interpret?mal de mer?
(sea sickness) because they are morelikely to assume the ?from the sea?
sense of themodifier instead of the correct ?caused by the sea?interpretation.
An explanation of our results maybe due to a combination of the above possibilities,both of which emphasise the co-dependence of themodifier and its associated relation.While our results have emphasised the linkbetween modifier and relation, they do not suggestthat modifier relational frequency is the only factorinvolved in selecting a plausible relation and it islikely that both the head and the modifier areinvolved in this process.
In order to develop anaccurate computational model of conceptualcombination, future studies will need to considerthe influence of other contributing factors.
Certainheads and modifiers are strongly biased towardssuggesting one particular relation.
For instance,modifiers denoting substances are biased towardsthe <head MADE OF modifier> relation (e.g.?plastic?)
and in the same way, head nouns with astrongly associated schema, such as ?factory?, canbe biased towards suggesting a certain relation.Furthermore, relation likelihood may be influencedby the presence of facilitating features (Devereux& Costello, 2004).
Facilitating features are thosefeatures of a pair of concepts that are necessary fora given relation to be possible.
For example acompound with the modifier ?kitchen?
is unlikelyto be interpreted using the <head MADE OFmodifier> relation since kitchens are not a type ofsubstance.
Computational models of conceptualcombination may have to account for thecharacteristics of heads and modifiers individuallyin order to simulate the ways in which eachconstituent influences relation selection.4 ConclusionIn summary, we investigated the influence ofrelation priming on the interpretation of Frenchnoun-noun compounds in order to ascertainwhether the influence of the modifier observed instudies of English stems from its functionalproperties rather than the fact that it is encounteredfirst.
Our results showed that same and different-relation primes were equally effective when theyshared the same head as the target, but that whenthey shared the same modifier the different-relationprimes were less effective.
This is consistent withfindings from studies of English and suggests thatthe properties of the modifier and head nounremain consistent regardless of their order in acombination.
While our results agree withpredictions of the CARIN theory, we speculate thatthis effect may be due to different senses of themodifier being appropriate depending on itsassociated relation.
Consequently modifiers usingdifferent relations are less effective at primingtargets with the same relation used in a differentsense.5 AcknowledgementsThis research was funded by a UCD grant to thefirst author.
We would like to thank NicoleMaguire for assistance in creating the Frenchmaterials and we would also like to thank RebeccaMaguire for valuable comments and feedback.ReferencesDevereux, B.
& Costello, F. J.
(2004).
Learningrelations between concepts: classification andconceptual combination.
In Proceedings of theTwenty-Sixth Annual Conference of theCognitive Science Society, (Chicago).
Hillsdale,NJ: Erlbaum.Gagn?, C. L. (2001).
Relation and lexical primingduring the interpretation of noun-nouncombinations.
Journal of ExperimentalPsychology: Learning, Memory and Cognition,27, 236-254.Gagn?, C. L., & Shoben, E. J.
(1997).
Theinfluence of thematic relations on thecomprehension of modifier-noun combinations.Journal of Experimental Psychology: Learning,Memory and Cognition, 23, 71-87.
