Exploiting Aggregate Properties of Bilingual Dictionaries For DistinguishingSenses of English Words and Inducing English Sense ClustersCharles SCHAFER and David YAROWSKYDepartment of Computer Science andCenter for Language and Speech ProcessingJohns Hopkins UniversityBaltimore, MD, 21218, USA{cschafer,yarowsky}@cs.jhu.eduAbstractWe propose a novel method for inducing monolingualsemantic hierarchies and sense clusters from numerousforeign-language-to-English bilingual dictionaries.
Themethod exploits patterns of non-transitivity in transla-tions across multiple languages.
No complex or hierar-chical structure is assumed or used in the input dictio-naries: each is initially parsed into the ?lowest commondenominator?
form, which is to say, a list of pairs of theform (foreign word, English word).
We then propose amonolingual synonymy measure derived from this ag-gregate resource, which is used to derive multilingually-motivated sense hierarchies for monolingual Englishwords, with potential applications in word sense classifi-cation, lexicography and statistical machine translation.1 IntroductionIn this work we consider a learning resource compris-ing over 80 foreign-language-to-English bilingual dictio-naries, collected by downloading electronic dictionariesfrom the Internet and also scanning and running opticalcharacter recognition (OCR) software on paper dictio-naries.
Such a diverse parallel lexical data set has not,to our knowledge, previously been assembled and exam-ined in its aggregate form as a lexical semantics trainingresource.
We show that this aggregate data set admitsof some surprising applications, including discovery ofsynonymy relationships between words and automaticinduction of high-quality hierarchical word sense clus-terings for English.We perform and describe several experiments derivingsynonyms and sense groupings from the aggregate bilin-gual dictionary, and subsequently suggest some possibleapplications for the results.Finally, we propose that sense taxonomies of the kindintroduced here, being of different provenance fromthose produced explicitly by lexicographers or using un-supervised corpus-driven methods, have significant valuebecause they add diversity to the set of available re-sources.2 ResourcesFirst we collected, from Internet sources and via scan-ning and running OCR on print dictionaries, 82 dictio-naries between English and a total of 44 distinct foreignlanguages from a variety of language families.Over 213K distinct English word types were presentin a total of 5.5M bilingual dictionary entries, for an av-fairblond justSSS are synonymous withfairdiffering senses ofblond and justFigure 1: Detecting asynonymy via unbalanced synonymy relation-ships among 3 words.
The derived synonymy relation S holds betweenfair and blond, and between fair and just.
S does not hold betweenblond and fair.
We can infer that fair has at least 2 senses and, further,we can represent them by blond and just.English French Spanish Germanfair blond, blondo, blond,juste licito, recto gerechtblond blond blondo blondjust juste licito; recto gerechtFigure 2: This excerpt from the data set illustrates the kind of supportthe aggregate bilingual dictionary provides for partitioning the mean-ings of fair into distinct senses: blond and just.erage of 26 and a median of 3 foreign entries per Englishword.
Roughly 15K English words had at least 100 for-eign entries; over 64K had at least 10 entries.No complex or hierarchical structure was assumed orused in our input dictionaries.
Each was initially parsedinto the ?lowest common denominator?
form.
This con-sisted of a list of pairs of the form (foreign word, Englishword).
Because bilingual dictionary structure varieswidely, and even the availability and compatibility ofpart-of-speech tags for entries is uncertain, we made thedecision to compile the aggregate resource only with datathat could be extracted from every individual dictionaryinto a universally compatible format.
The unique pairsextracted from each dictionary were then converted to 4-tuples of the form:<foreign language, dictionary name, foreign word, English word>before being inserted into the final, combined dictionarydata set.3 A Synonymy RelationWe began by using the above-described data set to obtaina synonymy relation between English words.In general, in a paper bilingual dictionary, each for-eign word can be associated with a list of English wordswhich are possible translations; in our reduced formateach entry lists a single foreign word and single possibleEnglish translation, though taking a union of all Englishtranslations for a particular foreign word recreates thislist.We use the notion of coentry to build the synonymyrelation between English words.
The per-entry coentrycount Cper?entry(e1,e2) for two English words e1 and e2is simply the number of times e1 and e2 both appear asthe translation of the same foreign word (over all foreignwords, dictionaries and languages).
The per-dictionarycoentry count Cper?dict(e1,e2), ignores the numberof individual coentries within a particular dictionaryand merely counts as 1 any number of coentries insidea particular dictionary.
Finally, per-language coentrycount Cper?lang(e1,e2) counts as 1 any number ofcoentries for e1 and e2 for a particular language.
Thus,for the following snippet from the database:Eng.
Wd.
Foreign Wd.
Foreign Language Dict.
IDhit schlagen GERMAN ger.dict1pound schlagen GERMAN ger.dict1hit schlag GERMAN ger.dict1pound schlag GERMAN ger.dict1hit schlag GERMAN ger.dict2pound schlag GERMAN ger.dict2hit battere ITAL ital.dict1pound battere ITAL ital.dict1Cper?entry(hit,pound) = 4, whileCper?dict(hit,pound) = 3, since the two individ-ual coentries in ger.dict1 are only counted once.Cper?lang(hit,pound) = 2; hit and pound are coentries inthe Italian and German languages.
We found the moreconservative per-dictionary and per-language counts tobe a useful device, given that some dictionary creatorsappear sometimes to copy and paste identical synonymsets in a fairly indiscriminate fashion, spuriouslyinflating the Cper?entry(e1,e2) counts.Our algorithm for identifying synonyms was sim-ple: we sorted all pairs of English words by decreas-ing Cper?dict(e1,e2) and, after inspection of the resultinglist, cut it off at a per-dictionary and per-language countthreshold1 yielding qualitatively strong results.
For allword pairs e1,e2 above threshold, we say the symmetricsynonymy relation S(e1,e2) holds.
The following tablesprovide a clarifying example showing how synonymycan be inferred from multiple bilingual dictionaries in away which is impossible with a single such dictionary(because of idiosyncratic foreign language polysemy).Lang.
Dict.
ID Foreign Wd English TranslationsGERMAN ger.dict1 absetzen deposit drop deduct sellGERMAN ger.dict1 ablagerung deposit sediment settlementThe table above displays entries from oneGerman-English dictionary.
How can we tellthat ?sediment?
is a better synonym for ?de-posit?
than ?sell??
We can build and examine the1The threshold was 10 and 5 respectively for per-dictionary and per-language coentry counts.coentry counts Cper?lang(deposit,sediment) andCper?lang(deposit,sell) using dictionaries from manylanguages, as illustrated below:FRENCH fre.dict1 de?po?t arsenal deposit depositorydepot entrusting filingsludge store trust submissionrepository scale sedimentTURKISH tk.dict1 tortu sediment deposit faecesremainder dregs crustCZECH cz.dict1 sedlina clot deposit sediment warpPolysemy which is specific to German ?
?deposit?and ?sell?
senses coexisting in a particular wordform ?absetzen?
?
will result in total coentry countsCper?lang(deposit,sell), over all languages and dictio-naries, which are low.
In fact, ?deposit?
and ?sell?are coentries under only 2 out of 44 languages in ourdatabase (German and Swedish, which are closely re-lated).
On the other hand, near-synonymous Englishtranslations of a particular sense across a variety of lan-guages will result in high coentry counts, as is the casewith Cper?lang(deposit,sediment).
As illustrated in thetables, German, French, Czech and Turkish all supportthe synonymy hypothesis for this pair of English words.?deposit?
Coentries Per Entry Per Dict.
Per Lang.sell 4 4 2sediment 68 40 18The above table, listing the various coentry countsfor ?deposit?, demonstrates the empirical motivation inthe aggregate dictionary for the synonymy relationshipbetween deposit and sediment, while the aggregate ev-idence of synonymy between deposit and sell is weak,limited to 2 languages, and is most likely the result of aword polysemy restricted to a few Germanic languages.4 Different Senses: Asymmetries ofSynonymy RelationsAfter constructing the empirically derived synonymy re-lation S described in the previous section, we observedthat one can draw conclusions from the topology of thegraph of S relationships (edges) among words (vertices).Specifically, consider the case of three words e1,e2, e3for which S(e1,e2) and S(e1,e3) hold, but S(e2,e3) doesnot.
Figure 1 illustrates this situation with an examplefrom data (e1 = ?fair?
), and more examples are listedin Table 1.
As Figure 1 suggests and inspection of therandom extracts presented in Table 1 will confirm, thistopology can be interpreted as indicating that e2 and e3exemplify differing senses of e1.We decided to investigate and apply it with more gen-erality.
This will be discussed in the next section.5 Inducing Sense Taxonomies: Clusteringwith Synonym SimilarityWith the goal of using the aggregate bilingual dictionaryto induce interesting and useful sense distinctions of En-glish words, we investigated the following strategy.syn1(W) W syn2(W)quiet still yetdesire want lackdelicate tender offerconceal hide skinnice kind sortassault charge loadfilter strain stretchflow run managecloth fabric structureblond fair justfoundation base ignobledeny decline fallhurl cast mouldbright clear openharm wrong incorrectcrackle crack fissureimpeach charge loadenthusiastic keen sharpcoarse rough difficultfling cast formfirm fast speedyfashion mold mildewincline lean meagrearouse raise increasedigit figure shapedye paint picturespot stain tinctureshape cast tossclaim call shoutearth ground groundworkassociate fellow guyarrest stop plugTable 1: A representative sampling of high-confidence sensedistinctions derived via unbalanced synonymy relationships amongthree words, W and two of its synonyms syn1(W) & syn2(W),such that Cper?dict(W,syn1(W)) and Cper?dict(W,syn2(W)) arehigh, whereas Cper?dict(syn1(W),syn2(W)) is low (0).
Ex-tracted from a list sorted by descending Cper?dict(W,syn1(W))?
Cper?dict(W,syn2(W)) / Cper?dict(syn1(W),syn2(W)) (countswere smoothed to prevent division by zero).For each target word Wt in English having a suffi-ciently high dictionary occurrence count to allow inter-esting results2, a list of likely synonym words Ws wasinduced by the method described in Section 33.
Addi-tionally, we generated a list of all words Wc having non-zero Cper?dict(Wt,Wc).The synonym words Ws ?
the sense exemplars fortarget words Wt ?
were clustered based on vectors ofcoentry counts Cper?dict(Ws,Wc).
This restriction onvector dimension to only words that have nonzero co-entries with the target word helps to exclude distractionssuch as coentries of Ws corresponding to a sense whichdoesn?t overlap with Wt.
The example given in the fol-lowing table shows an excerpt of the vectors for syn-onyms of strike.
The hit synonym overlaps strike in thebeat/bang/knock sense.
Restricting the vector dimensionas described will help prevent noise from hit?s common2For our experiments, English words occurring in at least 15 distinctsource dictionaries were considered.3Again, the threshold for synonyms was 10 and 5 respectively forper-dictionary and per-language coentry counts.chart-topper/recording/hit single sense.
The followingtable also illustrates the clarity with which major sensedistinctions are reflected in the aggregate dictionary.
Theinduced clustering for strike (tree as well as flat clusterboundaries) is presented in Figure 4.attack bang hit knock walkout findattack - 4 18 7 0 0bang - 38 43 2 0 0hit - 44 2 29knock - 2 0walkout - 0find -We used the CLUTO clustering toolkit (Karypis,2002) to induce a hierarchical agglomerative clusteringon the vectors for Ws.
Example results for vital andstrike are in Figures 3 and 4 respectively4.
Figure 4 alsopresents flat clusters automatically derived from the tree,as well as a listing of some foreign words associated withparticular clusters.Figure 3: Induced sense hierarchy for the word ?vital?6 Related WorkThere is a distinguished history of research extracting lexicalsemantic relationships from bilingual dictionaries (Copestakeet al, 1995; Chen and Chang, 1998).
There is also a long-standing goal of mapping translations and senses in multiplelanguages in a linked ontology structure (Resnik and Yarowsky,1997; Risk, 1989; Vossen, 1998).
The recent work of Ploux andJi (2003) has some similarities to the techniques presented herein that it considers topological properties of the graph of syn-onymy relationships between words.
The current paper can bedistinguished on a number of dimensions, including our muchgreater range of participating languages, and the fundamentalalgorithmic linkage between multilingual translation distribu-tions and monolingual synonymy clusters.4In both ?vital?
and ?strike?
examples, the rendered hierarchicalclusterings were pruned (automatically) in order to fit in this paper.Figure 4: Induced sense hierarchy for the word ?strike?
and some translations of individual ?strike?
synonyms.
Flat clustersautomatically derived from the tree are denoted by the horizontal lines.7 Analysis and ConclusionsThis is the first presentation of a novel method for the induc-tion of word sense inventories, which makes use of aggregateinformation from a large collection of bilingual dictionaries.One possible application of the induced sense inventoriespresented here is as an aid to manual construction of mono-lingual dictionaries or thesauri, motivated by translation dis-tinctions across numerous world languages.
While the desiredgranularity of sense distinction will vary according to the re-quirements of taste and differing applications, treating our out-put as a proposal to be assessed and manually modified wouldbe a valuable labor-saving tool for lexicographers.Another application of this work is a supplemental resourcefor statistical machine translation (SMT).
It is possible, asshown graphically in Figure 4, to recover the foreign wordsassociated with a cluster (not just a single word).
Given thatthe clusters provide a more complete coverage of English wordtypes for a given sense than the English side of a particularbilingual dictionary, clusters could be used to unify bitext co-occurrence counts of foreign words with English senses in away that typical bilingual dictionaries cannot.
Unifying countsin this way would be a useful way of reducing data sparsity inSMT training.Finally, evaluation of induced sense taxonomies is alwaysproblematic.
First of all, there is no agreed ?correct?
way toclassify the possible senses of a particular word.
To some de-gree this is because human experts disagree on particular judg-ments of classification, though a larger issue, as pointed outin Resnik and Yarowsky 1997, is that what constitutes an ap-propriate set of sense distinctions for a word is, emphatically, afunction of the task at hand.
The sense-distinction requirementsof English-to-French machine translation differ from those ofEnglish-to-Arabic machine translation (due to differing degreesof parallel polysemy across the language pairs), and both differfrom those of English dictionary construction.We believe that the translingually-motivated word-sense tax-onomies developed here will prove useful for the a varietyof tasks including those mentioned above.
The fact that theyare derived from a novel resource, not constructed explicitlyby humans or derived in fully unsupervised fashion from textcorpora, makes them worthy of study and incorporation in fu-ture lexicographic, machine translation, and word sense disam-biguation efforts.ReferencesJ.
Chen and J. Chang.
1998.
Topical Clustering of MRDSenses Based on Information Retrieval Techniques.Computational Linguistic, 29(2):61-95.A.
Copestake, E. Briscoe, P. Vossen, A. Ageno, I.Castellan, F. Ribas, G. Rigau, H. Rodriguez and A.Samiotou.
1995.
Acquisition of Lexical TranslationRelations from MRDs.
Machine Translation: SpecialIssue on the Lexicon, 9(3):33-69.G.
Karypis.
2002.
CLUTO: A Clustering Toolkit.
TechReport 02-017, Dept.
of Computer Science, Universityof Minnesota.
Available at http://www.cs.umn.edu?clutoS.
Ploux and H. Ji.
2003.
A Model for MatchingSemantic Maps Between Languages (French/English,English/French).
Computational Linguistics, 29(2):155-178.P.
Resnik and D. Yarowsky.
1997.
A Perspectiveon Word Sense Disambiguation Methods and TheirEvaluation.
In Proceedings of SIGLEX-1997, pp.
79-86.O.
Risk.
1989.
Sense Disambiguation of Word Trans-lations in Bilingual Dictionaries: Trying to Solve TheMapping Problem Automatically.
RC 14666, IBM T.J.Watson Research Center.
Yorktown Heights.P.
Vossen (ed.).
1998.
EUROWORDNET: A MultilingualDatabase with Lexical Semantic Networks.
KluwerAcademic Publishers.
Dordrecht, The Netherlands.
