Proceedings of the ACL Student Research Workshop, pages 7?12,Ann Arbor, Michigan, June 2005. c?2005 Association for Computational LinguisticsUnderstanding the thematic structure of the Qur?an: an exploratorymultivariate approachNaglaa ThabetSchool of English Literature, Language and LinguisticsUniversity of NewcastleNewcastle upon Tyne, UK, NE1 7RUn.a.thabet@ncl.ac.ukAbstractIn this paper, we develop a methodologyfor discovering the thematic structure ofthe Qur?an based on a fundamental idea indata mining and related disciplines: that,with respect to some collection of texts,the lexical frequency profiles of theindividual texts are a good indicator oftheir conceptual content, and thus providea reliable criterion for their classificationrelative to one another.
This idea isapplied to the discovery of thematicinterrelationships among the suras(chapters) of the Qur?an by abstractinglexical frequency data from them and thenapplying hierarchical cluster analysis tothat data.
The results reported hereindicate that the proposed methodologyyields usable results in understanding theQur?an on the basis of its lexicalsemantics.1 IntroductionThe Qur?an is one of the great religious books ofthe world, and is at the heart of Islamic culture.Careful, well-informed interpretation of the Qur?anis fundamental both to the faith of millions ofMuslims throughout the world, and to the non-Islamic world?s understanding of their religion.There is a long tradition of scholarly quranicinterpretation, and it has necessarily been based ontraditional literary-historical methods of manualtextual exegesis.
However, developments inelectronic text representation and analysis nowoffer the opportunity of applying the technologiesof newly-emerging research areas such as datamining (Hand et al, 2001) to the interpretation ofthe Qur?an.
Studies on computational analyses ofthe Qur?an are almost lacking.
Contributions to thisfield include the development of a morphologicalanalyser for the Qur?an (Dror et al, 2004).The Qur?an consists of 114 chapters called suraswhich range in length from the shortest, Al-Kawthar, consisting of 4 ayat (verses) to thelongest, Al-Baqarah, consisting of 286 ayat.
Thereis no obvious reason why the suras are sequencedas they are in the text.
They are not inchronological order, and seem, in fact, to beordered roughly by length, from longest at thebeginning of the text to shortest at the end.
Giventhis, apparently arbitrary sequencing, one of thefirst steps in interpreting the Qur?an as a wholemust be to discover thematic interrelationshipsamong the suras.
The present paper proposes amethodology for doing this using exploratorymultivariate analysis.The paper is in five parts; the first part is theintroduction.
The second presents the quranic textand the data preparation prior to the analysis.
Thethird part deals with the application of clusteranalysis techniques to the Qur?an and theinterpretation of the results.
The fourth part drawsthe conclusion and suggests future research to beundertaken.2 DataThe data for this study is based on an electronicversion of the Qur?an produced by Muslimnet1 .This version is a Western alphabetic transliterationof the Arabic orthography.
The data istransliterated into Latin based ASCII characters,mostly with single-symbol equivalents of theArabic phonemes and by replacing diacritics and1 http://www.usc.edu/dept/MSA/quran/transliteration/7glyphs which represent short vowels in Arabicorthography with appropriate Roman letters.A frequency matrix F is constructed in which therows are the suras, the columns are lexical items,and every cell Fij contains an integer thatrepresents the number of times lexical item  joccurs in sura i.
Construction of such a matrix isstraightforward in principle, but in practice somewell known issues arise.2.1 TokenizationGiven that one wants to count words, what is aword?
The answer is surprisingly difficult, and is atraditional problem both in linguistics and innatural language processing (Manning and Sh?tze,1999).
Even confined to written language, as here,two issues arise:?
Word segmentation: In English text, thecommonsensical view that a word is thestring of letters bounded by punctuationand/or white space is quite robust, but it isless so for other languages.?
Stemming: In languages with a significantelement of morphological elaboration ofwords stems, do the various morphologicalvariants of a given stem count as differentwords?For present purposes, the words segmentationproblem is easily resolved in that the Qur?an?sorthography is such that words can be reliablyidentified using the ?string of letters betweenpunctuation and/or white space?
criterion.
Withregard to stemming, morphological variants aretreated as single word types, and to achieve this,the electronic text of the Qur?an was processedusing a purpose-built stemmer whosecharacteristics and performance are described inThabet (2004).2.2 Keyword selectionFunction words like determiners and prepositionswere removed from the text, and only contentwords were retained.
In addition, the (many) wordswith frequency 1 were removed, since these cannotcontribute to determination of relationship amongsuras.2.3 Standardization for text lengthThe introduction noted that the suras vary in lengthfrom fewer than a dozen to several thousand words.The following plot of number of content words persura, sorted in order of descending magnitude.
?Figure 1.
Plot of number of words per sura?Clearly, given a word with some probability ofoccurrence, it is more likely to occur in a long textthan a short one.
In order to compare the surasmeaningfully on the basis of their word frequencyprofiles, the raw frequencies have to be adjusted tocompensate for sura length variation.
This wasdone on the following basis:( ) ( ) ??????
?= lFfreqFfreq ijij ?
'where freq' is the adjusted frequency, Fij is thevalue at the (i,j) coordinates of the data matrix F,freq is the raw frequency, ?
is the mean number ofwords per sura across all 114 suras, and l is thenumber of words in sura i.That said, it has also to be observed that, as textlength decreases, so does the probability that anygiven word will occur even once in it, and itsfrequency vector will therefore becomeincreasingly sparse, consisting mainly of zeros.Because 0 is non-adjustable, functions thatcompensate for variable text length generateincreasingly unreliable results as length decreases.In the present application, therefore, only relativelylong suras are considered for analysis, and morespecifically those 24 containing 1000 or morecontent words.Sura name Words Sura name WordsAl-Baqarah 5739 Al-Israa 1464Al-Imran 3316 Al-Kahf  1489Al-Nisa 3543 Ta-Ha 1265Al-Maidah 2681 Al-Anbiyaa 1077Al-An'am 2895 Al-Hajj 1195Al-A'raf 3127 Al-Nur 1236Al-Anfal 1156 Al-Shu'araa 12088Al-Tawba 2345 Al-Naml 1069Yunus 1732 Al-Qasas 1332Hud 1809 Al-Ahzab 1239Yusuf 1665 Al-Zumr 1107Al-Nahl 1729 Ghafir 1156?Table 1.
Suras with more than 1000 words?The choice of 1000 as the length threshold isarbitrary.
Arbitrariness does no harm in amethodological paper such as this one.
Clearly,however, any legitimate analysis of the Qur?anusing this methodology will have to face theproblem of which suras, if any, to exclude onlength grounds in a principled way.2.4 Dimensionality reductionAfter function words and words with frequency 1were eliminated and morphological variantsstemmed, 3672 significant ?content?
wordsremained, requiring a matrix with 3672 columns.Given only 24 data points, this results in anextremely sparsely populated data space whosedimensionality should be reduced as much aspossible consistent with the need to represent thedata domain adequately.
For a discussion ofdimensionality issues in data analysis seeVerleysen (2003).
To do this, the variances for all3672 columns of the frequency matrix F werecalculated, sorted in decreasing order of magnitude,and plotted:?Figure 2.
Plot of variances for 3762 columns?This is what one would expect from the typicalword frequency distribution in natural languagetext articulated by Zipf?s Law (Manning andSh?tze, 1999; 20-29): almost all the variance in thedata is concentrated in a small number of variables?the 500 or so on the left.
The variance in theremainder is so small that it cannot contributesignificantly to differentiating the data matrix rowsand, therefore, can be disregarded.
The matrix isthus truncated to 500 variables / columns, resultingin a 24 x 500 matrix for cluster analysis.3 Analysis3.1 Hierarchical cluster analysisCluster analysis aims to identify and graphicallyrepresent nonrandomness in the distribution ofvectors in a data space such that intra-groupdistance is small relative to the dimensions of thespace, and inter-group distance is relatively large.Detailed accounts of hierarchical cluster analysisare in Everitt (2001), Gordon (1999; 69-109), andGore (2000).
For briefer discussions see Dunn andEveritt (2001; 125-160), Hair et al (1998; 469-518), Flynn et al (1999; 275-9), Kachigan (1991;261-70), Oakes (1998; 110-120).
There are twomain varieties: hierarchical and nonhierarchical.The former aims not only to discover andgraphically represent clusters, but also to showconstituency relations among data items and dataitem clusters as ?dendrograms?
or trees.Hierarchical analysis uses relative proximityamong vectors as the basis for clustering, whereproximity can be measured in terms either ofsimilarity or of distance; distance is most oftenused, and is adopted here.
Assuming the existenceof a data matrix containing numerical values suchas the one described above, construction of adistance-based cluster tree is a two-stageprocedure.
In the first step, a table of distancesbetween data items, that is, between row vectors ofthe data matrix, is generated.
A frequently usedmeasure is the Euclidean; there the distancebetween vectors A and B is calculated using thewell known formula:22 ))(())(()( ylengthxlengthzlength += , but thereare many others as in Gordon (1999; 15-3) andFlynn et al (1999; 271-4).The second step then uses the distance table tobuild clusters with the following generic algorithm:?
Initially, every data vector is its owncluster.?
Using as many steps as necessary, at eachstep combine the two nearest clusters toform a new, composite cluster, thusreducing the number of clusters by 1.9?
When only one cluster remains,incorporating all the cases in the distancematrix, stop.An example of a tree generated by this procedurefollows in the next section.3.2 Cluster analysis of the quranic dataThe above generic clustering algorithm glossesover an important point: determination of distancesbetween data items is given by the distance table,but the distances between composite clusters is not,and needs to be calculated at each step.
How arethese distances calculated?
There is no singleanswer.
Various definitions of what constitutes acluster exist, and, in any given application, one isfree to choose among them.
The problem is thatthe numerous combinations of distance measureand cluster definition available to the researchertypically generate different analyses of the samedata, and there is currently no objective criterionfor choosing among them.
This indeterminacy is,in fact, the main drawback in using hierarchicalclustering for data analysis.
The present discussionsidesteps this important issue on the grounds thatits aim is methodological: the intention at thisstage of research is not to present a definitivecluster analysis of the Qur?an, but to develop anapproach to doing so.
One particular combinationof distance measure and cluster definition wastherefore chosen at random and applied to the data:squared Euclidean distance and Ward?s Method.The result was as follows (the A - D labels on theleft are for later reference):?Figure 3.
Tree generated by cluster analysis?3.3 InterpretationGiven that the lengths of the vertical lines in theabove tree represent relative distance betweensubclusters, interpretation of the tree in terms ofthe constituency relations among suras is obvious:there are two main subclusters A and B; A consistsof two subclusters C and D, and so on.
Knowingthe constituency structure of the suras is anecessary precondition for understanding theirthematic interrelationships ?the object of thisexercise?but it is not sufficient because itprovides no information about the thematiccharacteristics of the clusters and the thematicdifferences between and among them.
Thisinformation can be derived from the lexicalsemantics of the column labels in the data matrix,as follows.Each row in the data matrix is a lexicalfrequency profile of the corresponding sura.
Sincehierarchical analysis clusters the rows of the datamatrix in terms of their relative distance from oneanother in the data space, it follows that the lexicalfrequency profiles in a given cluster G are closer toone another than to any other profile in the data set.The profiles of G can be summarized by a vector swhose dimensionality is that of the data, and eachof whose elements contains the mean of thefrequencies for the corresponding data matrixcolumn: ( ) nFsni jij/..1 ,?==where j is the index to the jth element of s, iindexes the rows of the data matrix F, and n is thetotal number of rows in cluster G. If s is interpretedin terms of the semantics of the matrix columnlabels, it becomes a thematic profile for G: relativeto the frequency range of s, a high-frequency wordindicates that the suras which constitute G areconcerned with the denotation of that word, andthe indication for a low-frequency one is theobverse.
Such a thematic profile can be constructedfor each subcluster, and thematic differencesbetween subclusters can be derived by comparingthe profiles.The general procedure for thematicinterpretation of the cluster tree, therefore, is towork through the levels of the tree from the top,constructing and comparing thematic profiles forthe subclusters at each level as far down the tree asis felt to be useful.10By way of example, consider the application ofthis general procedure to subtrees A and B in theabove cluster tree.
Two mean frequency vectorswere generated, one for the component suras ofcluster A, and one for those of cluster B. Thesewere then plotted relative to one another; the solidline with square nodes represents cluster A, and thedotted line with diamond nodes cluster B; forclarity, only the 50 highest-variance variables areshown, in descending order of magnitude from theleft:?Figure 4.
Initial plot of groups A and B?The suras of cluster A are strikingly moreconcerned with the denotation of variable 1, thehighest-variance variable in the Qur?an, than thesuras of cluster B.
This variable is the lexical item?Allah?, which is central in Islam; the disparity inthe frequency of its occurrence in A and B is thefirst significant finding of the proposedmethodology.The scaling of the ?Allah?
variable dominatesall the other variables.
To gain resolution for theothers, ?Allah?
was eliminated from the lexicalfrequency vectors, and the vectors were re-plotted:?Figure 5.
Re-plotting of groups A and B?Awareness of the historical background of theQur?an?s revelation to Mohamed is crucial at thispoint of interpretation.
The suras revealed toMohamed before his migration to Madinah arecalled Makkan suras, whereas those sent downafter the migration are called Madinan.
Makkansuras stress the unity and majesty of Allah,promise paradise for the righteous and warnwrongdoers of their punishment, confirm theprophethood of Mohamed and the comingresurrection, and remind humanity of the pastprophets and events of their times.
On the otherhand, the Madinan suras outline ritualistic aspectsof Islam, lay down moral and ethical codes,criminal laws, social, economic and state policies,and give guidelines for foreign relations andregulations for battles and captives of war.
Theresults emerging from the initial clusteringclassification in figure 3 highlighted such thematicdistiction.
All the suras in cluster A are Madinansuras (apart from ?Al-Nahl?
and ?Al-Zumr?
whichare Makkan suras; yet they do contain some versesthat were revealed in Madina).
The 13 suras whichcompose cluster B are all Madinan suras.
Thedistribution of the variables (keywords) in figure 5is also highly significant, e.g.
variable 1 ?qAl?
(said)is prevalent in the suras of cluster B.
The suras ofthis group contain many narratives which illustrateimportant aspects of the quranic message, remindof the earlier prophets and their struggle andstrengthen Prophet Mohamed?s message of Islam.This signifies the use of the verb ?qAl?
as akeyword in narrative style.
Variable 4 ?qul?
(say,imperative) is more frequent in group B than groupA.
Most of the passages of these Makkan surasstart with the word ?qul?, which is an instruction toProphet Mohamed to address the words followingthis introduction to his audience in a particularsituation, such as in reply to a question that hasbeen raised, or an assertion of a matter of belief.The use of this word was appropriate withMohamed?s invitation to belief in God and Islam inMakkan suras.
Variable 5 ?mu/min?
(believers),variable 8 ?Aman?
(believe) and variable 24 ?ittaq?
(have faith) highly occur in group A.
These are theMadinan suras in which prophet Mohamedaddresses those who already believed in hismessage and hence focusing on introducing themto the other social and ethical aspects of Islam.Other variables prevelant in group B are variables14 and 28 ?AyAt , Ayat?
(signs/sign).
The use of11the two words was very important for ProphetMohamed in the early phase of Islam in Makkah.He had to provide evidence and signs to people tosupport his invitation to belief in Allah and Islam.The same procedure of clustering can be appliedto the subclusters of A and B.
Again, the scaling ofAllah?
dominates, and removing it from the meanfrequency vectors gives better resolution for theremaining variables.
Plotting the lexical frequencyvectors for C and D, for example, yields thefollowing:?Figure 6.
Plot of groups C and D?Results from figure 6 are also supportive of thethematic structure of each group.
Suras of group Care more abundant in the use of narratives andaddressing Mohamed to provide evidence of hismessage to people.
Suras of group B are moreconcerned with addressing believers about thereward for their righteous conduct.
Occurrences ofrelative variables to those themes are indicative ofsuch distinction.4     Conclusion and future directionsThe above preliminary results indicate thatconstruction and semantic interpretation of clustertrees based on lexical frequency is a usefulapproach to discovering thematic interrelationshipsamong the suras that constitute the Qur?an.
Usableresults can, however, only be generated when twomain issues have been resolved:?
Standardization of the data for variation insura length, as discussed in section (2.3)?
Variation in tree structure with differentcombinations of distance measure andcluster definition, as discussed in section(3.2)Work on these is ongoing.To conclude, hierarchical cluster analysis isknown to give different results for differentdistance measure / clustering rule combinations,and consequently cannot be relied on to provide adefinitive analysis.
The next step is to see ifinterpretation of the principal components of aprincipal component analysis of the frequencymatrix yields results consistent with thosedescribed above.
Another multivariate method tobe applied to the data is multidimensional scaling.In the longer term, the aim is to use nonlinearmethods such as the self organizing map in orderto take account of any nonlinearities in the data.ReferencesDror, J., Shaharabani, D., Talmon, R., Wintner, S.2004.
Morphological Analysis of the Qur'an.Literary and Linguistic Computing, 19(4):431-452.Dunn, G. and Everitt, B.
(2001).
Applied MultivariateData Analysis, 2nd ed.
Arnold, London.Everitt, B.
(2001).
Cluster Analysis, 4th ed.
Arnold,London.Flynn, P., Jain, A., and Murty, M. (1999).
Dataclustering: A review.
In: ACM Computing Surveys31, 264?323.Gordon, A.
(1999).
Classification, 2nd ed.
Chapman& Hall, London.Gore, P. (2000).
Cluster Analysis.
In H. E. A. Tinsley& S. D. Brown (Eds.
), Handbook of appliedmultivariate statistics and mathematical modeling(pp.
297-321).
Academic Press, San Diego, CAHair, H., Anderson, J., Black, W. and Tatham, R.(1998).
Multivariate Data Analysis, 5th ed.Prentice-Hall International, London.Hand, D., Mannila, H., Smyth, P. (2001).
Principlesof Data Mining, MIT Press.Kachigan, S. (1991).
Multivariate Statistical Analysis.A conceptual introduction.
Radius Press, NewYorkManning, C. and Sch?tze, H. (1999).
Foundations ofStatistical Natural Language Processing.Cambridge, Mass, MIT Press.Oakes, M. (1998).
Statistics for Corpus Linguistics.Edinburgh University Press, EdinburghThabet, N. (2004).
?Stemming the Qur?an?.
InProceedings of Arabic Script-Based LanguagesWorkshop, COLING-04, Switzerland, August 2004.Verleysen, M. (2003).
Learning high-dimensionaldata.
In: Limitations and future trends in neuralcomputation.
IOS Press, Amesterdam, pp141-162.12
