Proceedings of the ACL Interactive Poster and Demonstration Sessions,pages 113?116, Ann Arbor, June 2005. c?2005 Association for Computational LinguisticsHAHAcronym: A Computational Humor SystemOliviero Stock and Carlo StrapparavaITC-irst, Istituto per la Ricerca Scientica e TecnologicaI-38050 Trento, ITALY{stock, strappa}@itc.itAbstractComputational humor will be needed ininterfaces, no less than other cognitivecapabilities.
There are many practi-cal settings where computational humorwill add value.
Among them there are:business world applications (such as ad-vertisement, e-commerce, etc.
), generalcomputer-mediated communication andhuman-computer interaction, increase inthe friendliness of natural language inter-faces, educational and edutainment sys-tems.
In particular in the educationalfield it is an important resource for get-ting selective attention, help in memoriz-ing names and situations etc.
And we allknow how well it works with children.Automated humor production in generalis a very difficult task but we wanted toprove that some results can be achievedeven in short time.
We have worked ata concrete limited problem, as the coreof the European Project HAHAcronym.The main goal of HAHAcronym has beenthe realization of an acronym ironic re-analyzer and generator as a proof of con-cept in a focalized but non restricted con-text.
To implement this system some gen-eral tools have been adapted, or developedfor the humorous context.
Systems outputhas been submitted to evaluation by hu-man subjects, with a very positive result.1 IntroductionSociety needs humor, not just for entertainment.
Inthe current business world, humor is considered tobe so important that companies may hire humor con-sultants.
Humor can be used ?to criticize withoutalienating, to defuse tension or anxiety, to introducenew ideas, to bond teams, ease relationships andelicit cooperation?.As far as human-computer interfaces are con-cerned, in the future we will demand naturalness andeffectiveness that require the incorporation of mod-els of possibly all human cognitive capabilities, in-cluding the handling of humor (Stock, 1996).
Thereare many practical settings where computational hu-mor will add value.
Among them there are: busi-ness world applications (such as advertisement, e-commerce, etc.
), general computer-mediated com-munication and human-computer interaction, in-crease in the friendliness of natural language inter-faces, educational and edutainment systems.Not necessarily applications need to emphasizeinteractivity.
For instance there are importantprospects for humor in automatic information pre-sentation.
In the Web age presentations will be-come more and more flexible and personalized andwill require humor contributions for electronic com-merce developments (e.g.
product promotion, get-ting selective attention, help in memorizing namesetc) more or less as it happened in the world ofadvertisement within the old broadcast communica-tion.Little published research exists on whether humoris valuable in task-oriented human-computer inter-113action (HCI).
However (Morkes et al, 1999) didsome experiments concerning the effects of humorin HCI and computer-mediated communication sit-uations.
Especially in computer-mediated commu-nication tasks, participants who received jokes ratedthe ?person?
or computer they worked with as morelikable and competent, reported greater cooperation,joked back more often etc.
The experiments showthat, humor enhances the likeability of an interface?without distracting users?.There has been a considerable amount of researchon linguistics of humor and on theories of semanticsor pragmatics of humor (Attardo, 1994).
Within theartificial intelligence community, most writing onhumor has been speculative (Hofstadter et al, 1989).Minsky (Minsky, 1980) made some preliminary re-marks about formalizing some kind of humor withinan artificial intelligence/cognitive science perspec-tive.
He refined Freud?s notion that humor is a wayof bypassing our mental ?censors?
which controlinappropriate thoughts and feelings (Freud, 1905).So far, very limited effort has been put on buildingcomputational humor prototypes.
The few existingones are concerned with rather simple tasks, nor-mally in limited domains.
Probably the most impor-tant attempt to create a computational humor proto-type is the work of Binsted and Ritchie (Binsted andRitchie, 1994).
They have devised a model of thesemantic and syntactic regularities underlying someof the simplest types of punning riddles.
A punningriddle is a question-answer riddle that uses phono-logical ambiguity.
The three main strategies used tocreate phonological ambiguity are syllable substitu-tion, word substitution and metathesis.
In general,the constructive approaches are mostly inspired bythe incongruity theory (Raskin, 1985), interpreted atvarious level of refinement.
The incongruity theoryfocuses on the element of surprise.
It states that hu-mor is created out of a conflict between what is ex-pected and what actually occurs when the humorousutterance or story is completed.
In verbal humor thismeans that at some level, different interpretations ofmaterial must be possible (and some not detectedbefore the culmination of the humorous process) orvarious pieces of material must cause perception ofspecific forms of opposition.
Natural language pro-cessing research has often dealt with ambiguity inlanguage.
A common view is that ambiguity is anobstacle for deep comprehension.
Exactly the oppo-site is true here.The work presented here refers to HAHAcronym,the first European project devoted to computationalhumor (EU project IST-2000-30039), part of the Fu-ture Emerging Technologies section of the Fifth Eu-ropean Framework Program.
The main goal of HA-HAcronym was the realization of an acronym ironicre-analyzer and generator as a proof of concept in afocalized but non restricted context.
In the first casethe system makes fun of existing acronyms, in thesecond case, starting from concepts provided by theuser, it produces new acronyms, constrained to bewords of the given language.
And, of course, theyhave to be funny.HAHAcronym, fully described in (Stock andStrapparava, 2003) (Stock and Strapparava, 2005),is based on various resources for natural languageprocessing, adapted for humor.
Many componentsare present but simplified with respect to more com-plex scenarios and some general tools have been de-veloped for the humorous context.
A fundamentaltool is an incongruity detector/generator: in prac-tice there is a need to detect semantic mismatchesbetween expected sentence meaning and other read-ings, along some specific dimension (i.e.
in our casethe acronym and its context).2 The HAHAcronym projectThe realization of an acronym re-analyzer and gen-erator was proposed to the European Commissionas a project that we would be able to develop in ashort period of time (less than a year), that would bemeaningful, well demonstrable, that could be eval-uated along some pre-decided criteria, and that wasconducive to a subsequent development in a direc-tion of potential applicative interest.
So for us it wasessential that:1. the work could have many components of alarger system, simplified for the current setting;2. we could reuse and adapt existing relevant lin-guistic resources;3. some simple strategies for humor effects couldbe experimented.114One of the purposes of the project was to showthat using ?standard?
resources (with some exten-sions and modifications) and suitable linguistic the-ories of humor (i.e.
developing specific algorithmsthat implement or elaborate theories), it is possi-ble to implement a working prototype.
For that,we have taken advantage of specialized thesauri andrepositories and in particular of WORDNET DO-MAINS, an extension developed at ITC-irst of thewell-known English WORDNET.
In WORDNETDOMAINS, synsets are annotated with subject fieldcodes (or domain labels), e.g.
MEDICINE, ARCHI-TECTURE, LITERATURE,.
.
.
In particular for HA-HAcronym, we have modelled an independent struc-ture of domain opposition, such as RELIGION vs.TECHNOLOGY, SEX vs.
RELIGION, etc.
.
.
, as a ba-sic resource for the incongruity generator.Other important computational tools we have usedare: a parser for analyzing input syntacticallyand a syntactic generator of acronyms; generallexical resources, e.g.
acronym grammars, mor-phological analyzers, rhyming dictionaries, propernouns databases, a dictionary of hyperbolic adjec-tives/adverbs.2.1 ImplementationTo get an ironic or profaning re-analysis of a givenacronym, the system follows various steps and relieson a number of strategies.
The main elements of thealgorithm can be schematized as follows:?
acronym parsing and construction of a logicalform?
choice of what to keep unchanged (for examplethe head of the highest ranking NP) and whatto modify (for example the adjectives)?
look for possible, initial letter preserving, sub-stitutions?
using semantic field oppositions;?
reproducing rhyme and rhythm (the mod-ified acronym should sound as similar aspossible to the original one);?
for adjectives, reasoning based mainly onantonym clustering and other semantic re-lations in WORDNET.Making fun of existing acronyms amounts to ba-sically using irony on them, desecrating them withsome unexpectedly contrasting but otherwise con-sistently sounding expansion.As far as acronym generation is concerned, theproblem is more complex.
We constrain resultingacronyms to be words of the dictionary.
The systemtakes in input some concepts (actually synsets, sothat input to this system can result from some otherprocessing, for instance sentence interpretation) andsome minimal structural indication, such as the se-mantic head.
The primary strategy of the systemis to consider as potential acronyms words that arein ironic relation with input concepts.
Structuresfor the acronym expansion result from the specifiedhead indication and the grammar.
Semantic reason-ing and navigation over WORDNET, choice of spe-cific word realizations, including morphosyntacticvariations, constrain the result.
In this specific strat-egy, ironic reasoning is developed mainly at the levelof acronym choice and in the incongruity resultingin relation to the coherently combined words of theacronym expansion.3 Examples and EvaluationHere below some examples of acronym re-analysisare reported.
As far as semantic field opposition isconcerned, we have slightly biased the system to-wards the domains FOOD, RELIGION, and SEX.
Foreach example we report the original acronym and there-analysis.ACM - Association for Computing Machinery?
Association for ConfusingMachineryFBI - Federal Bureau of Investigation?
Fantastic Bureau ofIntimidationPDA - Personal Digital Assistant?
Penitential DemoniacalAssistantIJCAI - International Joint Conference on Artifi-cial Intelligence?
Irrational Joint Conference onAntenuptial Intemperance?
Irrational Judgment Conferenceon Artificial Indolence115ITS - Intelligent Tutoring Systems?
Impertinent Tutoring Systems?
Indecent Toying SystemsAs far as generation from scratch is concerned,a main concept and some attributes (in terms ofsynsets) are given as input to the system.
Here belowwe report some examples of acronym generation.Main concept: tutoring; Attribute: intelligentFAINT - Folksy Acritical Instruction for NescienceTeachingNAIVE - Negligent At-large Instruction for Vulner-able Extracurricular-activityMain concept: writing; Attribute: creativeCAUSTIC - Creative Activity for UnconvincinglySporadically Talkative Individualistic Com-mercialsWe note that the system tries to keep all the ex-pansions of the acronym coherent in the same se-mantic field of the main concepts.
At the same time,whenever possible, it exploits some incongruity inthe lexical choices.Testing the humorous quality of texts or other ver-bal expressions is not an easy task.
There are somerelevant studies though, such as (Ruch, 1996).
ForHAHAcronym an evaluation was set with a groupof 30 American university students.
They had toevaluate the system production (80 reanalyzed and80 generated acronyms), along a scale of five levelsof amusement (from very-funny to not-funny).
Theresults were very encouraging.
The system perfor-mance with humorous strategies and the one withoutsuch strategies (i.e.
random lexical choices, main-taining only syntactic correctness) were totally dif-ferent.
None of the humorous re-analyses proposedto the students were rejected as completely non-humorous.
Almost 70% were rated funny enough(without humorous strategies the figure was lessthan 8%).
In the case of generation of new acronymsresults were positive in 53% of the cases.A curiosity that may be worth mentioning: HA-HAcronym participated to a contest about (human)production of best acronyms, organized by RAI, theItalian National Broadcasting Service.
The systemwon a jury?s special prize.4 ConclusionThe results of the HAHAcronym project have beenpositive and a neat prototype resulted, aimed at avery specific task, but operating without restrictionsof domain.
It turns out that it can be even useful perse, but we think that the project opens the way todevelopments for creative language.
We believe thatan environment for proposing solutions to advertis-ing professionals can be a realistic practical develop-ment of computational humor.
In the log run, elec-tronic commerce, for instance, could include flexibleand individual-oriented humorous promotion.ReferencesS.
Attardo.
1994.
Linguistic Theory of Humor.
Moutonde Gruyter, Berlin.K.
Binsted and G. Ritchie.
1994.
An implemented modelof punning riddles.
In Proc.
of the 12th National Con-ference on Artificial Intelligence (AAAI-94), Seattle.S.
Freud.
1905.
Der Witz und Seine Beziehung zum Un-bewussten.
Deutike, Leipzig and Vienna.D.
Hofstadter, L. Gabora, V. Raskin, and S. Attardo.1989.
Synopsis of the workshop on humor and cog-nition.
Humor, 2(4):293?347.M.
Minsky.
1980.
Jokes and the logic of the cognitiveunconscious.
Technical report, MIT Artificial Intelli-gence Laboratory.
AI memo 603.J.
Morkes, H. Kernal, and C. Nass.
1999.
Effectsof humor in task-oriented human-computer interac-tion and computer-mediated communication.
Human-Computer Interaction, 14:395?435.V.
Raskin.
1985.
Semantic Mechanisms of Humor.
Dor-drecht/Boston/Lancaster.W.
Ruch.
1996.
Special issue: Measurement approachesto the sense of humor.
Humor, 9(3/4).O.
Stock and C. Strapparava.
2003.
Getting seriousabout the development of computational humor.
InProceedings of International Joint Conference on Ar-tificial Intelligence (IJCAI03), Acapulco, Mexico.O.
Stock and C. Strapparava.
2005.
The act of creatinghumorous acronyms.
Applied Artificial Intelligence,19(2):137?151, February.O.
Stock.
1996.
Password Swordfish: Verbal humorin the interface.
In J. Hulstijn and A. Nijholt, ed-itors, Proc.
of International Workshop on Computa-tional Humour (TWLT 12), University of Twente, En-schede, Netherlands.116
