Proceedings of the ACL Student Research Workshop, pages 109?114,Ann Arbor, Michigan, June 2005. c?2005 Association for Computational LinguisticsA corpus-based approach to topic in Danish dialog?Philip DiderichsenLund University Cognitive ScienceLund UniversitySwedenphilip.diderichsen lucs.lu.seJakob ElmingCMOL / Dept.
of Computational LinguisticsCopenhagen Business SchoolDenmarkje.id cbs.dkAbstractWe report on an investigation of the prag-matic category of topic in Danish dia-log and its correlation to surface featuresof NPs.
Using a corpus of 444 utter-ances, we trained a decision tree systemon 16 features.
The system achieved near-human performance with success rates of84?89% and F1-scores of 0.63?0.72 in 10-fold cross validation tests (human perfor-mance: 89% and 0.78).
The most im-portant features turned out to be prever-bal position, definiteness, pronominalisa-tion, and non-subordination.
We discov-ered that NPs in epistemic matrix clauses(e.g.
?I think .
.
.
?)
were seldom topics andwe suspect that this holds for other inter-personal matrix clauses as well.1 IntroductionThe pragmatic category of topic is notoriously dif-ficult to pin down, and it has been defined in manyways (Bu?ring, 1999; Davison, 1984; Engdahl andVallduv?
?, 1996; Gundel, 1988; Lambrecht, 1994;Reinhart, 1982; Vallduv?
?, 1992).
The common de-nominator is the notion of topic as what an utter-ance is about.
We take this as our point of depar-ture in this corpus-based investigation of the corre-lations between linguistic surface features and prag-matic topicality in Danish dialog.
?We thank Daniel Hardt and two anonymous reviewers formany helpful comments on drafts of this paper.Danish is a verb-second language.
Its word orderis fixed, but only to a certain degree, in that it al-lows any main clause constituent to occur in the pre-verbal position.
The first position thus has a privi-leged status in Danish, often associated with topical-ity (Harder and Poulsen, 2000; Togeby, 2003).
Wewere thus interested in investigating how well thetopic correlates with the preverbal position, alongwith other features, if any.Our findings could prove useful for the further in-vestigation of local dialog coherence in Danish.
Inparticular, it may be worthwile in future work tostudy the relation of our notion of topic to the Cbof Grosz et als (1995) Centering Theory.2 The corpusThe basis of our investigation was two dialogs froma corpus of doctor-patient conversations (Hermann,1997).
Each of the selected dialogs was between awoman in her thirties and her doctor.
The doctor wasthe same in the two conversations, and the overalltopic of both was the weight problems of the patient.One of the dialogs consisted of 125 utterances (165NPs), the other 319 (449 NPs).3 MethodThe investigation proceeded in three stages: first,the topic expressions (see below) of all utteranceswere identified1; second, all NPs were annotated forlinguistic surface features; and third, decision trees1 Utterances with dicourse regulating purpose (e.g.
yes/no-answers), incomplete utterances, and utterances without an NPwere excluded.109were generated in order to reveal correlations be-tween the topic expressions and the surface features.3.1 Identification of topic expressionsTopics are distinguished from topic expressions fol-lowing Lambrecht (1994).
Topics are entities prag-matically construed as being what an utterance isabout.
A topic expression, on the other hand, is anNP that formally expresses the topic in the utterance.Topic expressions were identified through a two-stepprocedure; 1) identifying topics and 2) determiningthe topic expressions on the basis of the topics.First, the topic was identified strictly based onpragmatic aboutness using a modified version of the?about test?
(Lambrecht, 1994; Reinhart, 1982).The about test consists of embedding the utter-ance in question in an ?about-sentence?
as in Lam-brecht?s example shown below as (1):(1) He said about the children that they went to school.This is a paraphrase of the sentence the childrenwent to school which indicates that the referent ofthe children is the topic because it is appropriate (inthe imagined discourse context) to embed this refer-ent as an NP in the about matrix clause.
(Again, thereferent of the children is the topic, while the NP thechildren is the topic expression.
)We adapted the about test for dialog by adding arequest to ?say something about .
.
.
?
or ?ask about.
.
.
?
before the utterance in question.
Each utter-ance was judged in context, and the best topic wasidentified as illustrated below.
In example (2), thelast utterance, (2-D3), was assigned the topic TIMEOF LAST WEIGHING.
This happened after consider-ing which about construction gave the most coherentand natural sounding result combined with the utter-ance.
Example (3) shows a few about constructionsthat the coder might come up with, and in this con-text (3-iv) was chosen as the best alternative.
(2) D1 sidsitneddownogandladletmigmeh?re,hear,Annette (made-up name)AnnetteP1 jegIskalshallbarejustvejesbe.weighedP2 ogandsa?thenskalshalljegIhavehavesvaranswerfrafromsidstelastgangtimeD2 sa?thenskalletviusseseeenonegangtimeD3 det...it...er...is...fjortenfourteendagedayssidensinceduyoublevwerevejet...weighed...(3) i.
Say something about THE PATIENT (=you).ii.
Say something about THE WEIGHING OF THE PA-TIENT.iii.
Say something about THE LAST WEIGHING OF THEPATIENT.iv.
Say something about THE TIME OF LAST WEIGHINGOF THE PATIENT.Creating the about constructions involved a greatdeal of creativity and made them difficult to com-pare.
Sometimes the coders chose the exact sametopic, at other times they were obviously differ-ent, but frequently it was difficult to decide.
Forinstance, for one utterance Coder 1 chose OTHERCAUSES OF EDEMA SYMPTOM, while Coder 2chose THE EDEMA?S CONNECTION TO OTHERTHINGS.
Slightly different wordings like these madeit impossible to test the intersubjectivity of the topiccoding.The second step consisted in actually identifyingthe topic expression.
This was done by selecting theNP in the utterance that was the best formal repre-sentation of the topic, using 3 criteria:1.
The topic expression is the NP in the utterance that refersto the topic.2.
If no such NP exists, then the topic expression is the NPwhose referent the topic is a property or aspect of.3.
If no NP fulfills one of these criteria, then the utterancehas no topic expression.In the example from before, (2-D3), it was judgedthat det ?it?
(emphasized) was the topic expressionof the utterance, because it shared reference with thechosen topic from (3-iv).If two NPs in an utterance had the same reference,the best topic representative was chosen.
In reflexiveconstructions like (4), the non-reflexive NP, in thiscase jeg ?I?, is considered the best representative.
(4) menbutjegIharhaveikkenottabtlostmigme (i.e.
lost weight)In syntactially complex utterances, the best repre-sentative of the topic was considered the one occur-ring in the clause most closely related to the topic.
Inthe following example, since the topic was THE PA-TIENT?S HANDLING OF EATING, the topic expres-sion had to be one of the two instances of jeg ?I?.Since the topic arguably concerns ?handling?
morethan ?eating?, the NP in the matrix clause (empha-sized) is the topic expression.110(5) jegIharhavesletreallyikkenott?nktthoughtpa?abouthvadwhatjegIharhavespisteatenA final example of several NPs referring to thesame topic has to do with left-dislocation.
In ex-ample (6), the preverbal object ham ?him?
is imme-diately preceded by its antecedent min far ?my fa-ther?.
Both NPs express the topic of the utterance.
InDanish, resumptive pronouns in left-dislocation con-structions always occur in preverbal position, and incases where they express the topic there will thusalways be two NPs directly adjacent to each otherwhich both refer to the topic.
In such cases, we con-sider the resumptive pronoun the topic expression,partly because it may be considered a more inte-grated part of the sentence (cf.
Lambrecht (1994)).
(6) minmyfarfatherhamhimsa?sawjegIsj?ldentseldomThe intersubjectivity of the topic expression an-notation was tested in two ways.
First, all the topicexpression annotations of the two coders were com-pared.
This showed that topic expressions can be an-notated reasonably reliably (?
= 0.70 (see table 1)).Second, to make sure that this intersubjectivity wasnot just a product of mutual influence between thetwo authors, a third, independent coder annotated asmall, random sample of the data for topic expres-sions (50 NPs).
Comparing this to the annotation ofthe two main coders confirmed reasonable reliability(?
= 0.70).3.2 Surface featuresAfter annotating the topics and topic expressions, 16grammatical, morphological, and prosodic featureswere annotated.
First the smaller corpus was anno-tated by the two main coders in collaboration in or-der to establish annotating policies in unclear cases.Then the features were annotated individually by thetwo coders in the larger corpus.Grammatical roles.
Each NP was categorized asgrammatical subject (sbj), object (obj), or oblique(obl).These features can be annotated reliably (sbj: C1(number of sbj?s identified by Coder 1) = 208, C2 (sbj?s identified by Coder 2) =207, C1+2 (Coder 1 and 2 overlap) = 207, ?sbj = 1.00; obj: C1 = 110, C2 = 109,C1+2 = 106, ?obj = 0.97; obl: C1 = 30, C2 = 50, C1+2 = 29, ?obl = 0.83).Morphological and phonological features.
NPswere annotated for pronominalisation (pro), defi-niteness (def), and main stress (str).
(Note that themain stress distinction only applies to pronouns inDanish.)
These can also be annotated reliably (pro:C1 = 289, C2 = 289, C1+2 = 289, ?pro = 1.00; def : C1 = 319, C2 = 318, C1+2 =318, ?def = 0.99; str: C1 = 226, C2 = 226, C1+2 = 203, ?str = 0.80).Unmarked surface position.
NPs were anno-tated for occurrence in pre-verbal (pre) or post-verbal (post) position relative to their subcategoriz-ing verb.
Thus, in the following example, det ?it?
is+pre, but ?post, because det is not subcategorizedby tror ?think?.
(7) ?
(I)trorthink[+pre,?post[+pre,?postdet]it]hj?lperhelpslidta littleIn addition to this, NPs occurring in pre-verbalposition were annotated for whether they were rep-etitions of a left-dislocated element (ldis).
Example(8) further exemplifies the three position-related fea-tures.
(8) minmyfarfather[+ldis,+pre ham][+ldis,+pre him]sa?saw[+post jeg][+post I]sj?ldentseldomAll three features can be annotated highly reliably(pre: C1 = 142, C2 = 142, C1+2 = 142, ?pre = 1.00; post: C1 = 88, C2 = 88,C1+2 = 88, ?post = 1.00; ldis: C1 = 2, C2 = 2, C1+2 = 2, ?ldis = 1.00).Marked NP-fronting.
This group contains NPsfronted in marked constructions such as the pas-sive (pas), clefts (cle), Danish ?sentence intertwin-ing?
(dsi), and XVS-constructions (xvs).NPs fronted as subjects of passive utterances wereannotated as +pas.
(9) [+pas jeg][+pas I]skalshallbarejustvejesbe.weighedA cleft construction is defined as a complex con-struction consisting of a copula matrix clause witha relative clause headed by the object of the matrixclause.
The object of the matrix clause is also anargument or adjunct of the relative clause predicate.The clefted element det ?that?, which we annotate as+cle, leaves an ?empty slot?, e, in the relative clause,as shown in example (10):(10) detiterisjoafter allikkenot[+cle deti][+cle thati]duyouskalshalltabe diglose weightaffromeieisomassa?dansuchDanish sentence intertwining can be defined asa special case of extraction where a non-WH con-stituent of a subordinate clause occurs in the first111position of the matrix clause.
As in cleft construc-tions, an ?empty slot?
is left behind in the subordi-nate clause.
NPs in the fronted position were anno-tated as +dsi:(11) [+dsi deti][+dsi thati]trorthinkjegIikkenotdetitg?rdoeseieiThe XVS construction is defined as a simpledeclarative sentence with anything but the subject inthe preverbal position.
Since only one constituent isallowed preverbally2, the subject occurs after the fi-nite verb.
In example (12), the finite verb is an auxil-iary, and the canonical position of the object after themain verb is indicated with the ?empty slot?
markere.
The preverbal element in XVS-constructions isannotated as +xvs.
(12) [+xvs deti][+xvs thati]harhavejegIaltsa?trulyhafthadeieif?rbeforeAll four features can be annotated highly reliably(pas: C1 = 1, C2 = 1, C1+2 = 1, ?pas = 1.00; cle: C1 = 4, C2 = 4, C1+2 = 4,?cle = 1.00; dsi C1 = 3, C2 = 3, C1+2 = 3, ?dsi = 1.00; xvs: C1 = 18, C2 = 18,C1+2 = 18, ?xvs = 1.00).Sentence type and subordination.
Each NP wasannotated with respect to whether or not it appearedin an interrogative sentence (int) or a subordinateclause (sub), and finally, all NPs were coded as towhether they occurred in an epistemic matrix clauseor in a clause subordinated to an epistemic matrixclause (epi).
An epistemic matrix clause is definedas a matrix clause whose function it is to evaluatethe truth of its subordinate clause (such as ?I think.
.
.
?).
The following example illustrates how we an-notated both NPs in the epistemic matrix clause andNPs in its immediate subordinate clause as +epi, butnot NPs in further subordinated clauses.
The +epifeature requires a +/?sub feature in order to deter-mine whether the NP in question is in the epistemicmatrix clause or subordinated under it.
Subordina-tion is shown here using parentheses.
(13) [+epi[+epijeg]I]trorthinkmererather(([+epi,+sub[+epi,+subdet]it]erisfordibecause(at(that[+sub[+subman]you]spisereatpa?at[+sub[+subdummestupidtidspunkter]times]ik?
))right))All features in this group can be annotated reli-2 Only one constituent is allowed in the intrasentential pre-verbal position.
Left-dislocated elements are not consideredpart of the sentence proper, and thus do not count as preverbalelements, cf.
Lambrecht (1994).ably (int: C1 = 55, C2 = 55, C1+2 = 55, ?int = 1.00; sub: C1 = 117, C2 =111, C1+2 = 107, ?sub = 0.93; epi: C1 = 38, C2 = 45, C1+2 = 37, ?epi = 0.92).3.3 Decision treesIn the third stage of our investigation, a decision tree(DT) generator was used to extract correlations be-tween topic expressions and surface features.
Threedifferent data sets were used to train and test theDTs, all based on the larger dialog.Two of these data sets were derived from the com-plete set of NPs annotated by each main coder in-dividually.
These two data sets will be referred tobelow as the ?Coder 1?
and ?Coder 2?
data sets.The third data set was obtained by including onlyNPs annotated identically by both main coders inrelevant features3.
This data set represents a higherdegree of intersubjectivity, especially in the topic ex-pression category, but at the cost of a smaller numberof NPs.
63 out of a total of 449 NPs had to be ex-cluded because of inter-coder disagreement, 50 dueto disagreement on the topic expression category.This data set will be referred to below as the ?In-tersection?
data set.A DT was generated for each of these three datasets, and each DT was tested using 10-fold cross val-idation, yielding the success rates reported below.4 ResultsOur results were on the one hand a subset of thefeatures examined that correlated with topic expres-sions, and on the other the discovery of the impor-tance of different types of subordination.
These re-sults are presented in turn.4.1 Topic-indicating featuresThe optimal classification of topic expressions in-cluded a subset of important features which ap-peared in every DT, i.e.
+pro, +def, +pre, and ?sub.Several other features occurred in some of the DTs,i.e.
dsi, int, and epi.
The performance of all the DTsis summarized in table 2 below.3?Relevant features?
were determined in the following way:A DT was generated using a data set consisting only of NPsannotated identically by the two coders in all the features, i.e.the 16 surface features as well as the topic expression feature.The features constituting this DT, i.e.
pro, def, sub, and pre, aswell as the topic expression category, were relevant features forthe third data set, which consisted only of NPs coded identicallyby the two coders in these 5 features.112The DT for the Coder 1 data set contains the fea-tures def, pro, dsi, sub, and pre.
According to thisclassification, a definite pronoun in the fronted po-sition of a Danish sentence intertwining construc-tion is a topic expression, and other than that, def-inite pronouns in the preverbal position of non-subordinate clauses are topic expressions.
The 10-fold cross validation test yields an 84% success rate.F1-score: 0.63.The Coder 2 DT contains the features pro, def,sub, pre, int, and epi.
Here, if a definite pronounoccurs in a subordinate clause it is not a topic ex-pression, and otherwise it is a topic expression if itoccurs in the preverbal position.
If it does not oc-cur in preverbal position, but in a question, it is alsoa topic expression unless it occurs in an epistemicmatrix clause.
Success rate: 85%.
F1-score: 0.67.Finally, the Intersection DT contains the featurespro, def, sub, and pre.
According to this DT,only definite pronouns in preverbal position in non-subordinate clauses are topic expressions.
The DThas a high success rate of 89% in the cross vali-dation test ?
which is not surprising, given that alarge number of possibly difficult cases have beenremoved (mainly the 50 NPs where the two codersdisagreed on the annotation of topic expressions).F1-score: 0.72.Since there is no gold standard for annotatingtopic expressions, the best evaluation of the humanperformance is in terms of the amount of agreementbetween the two coders.
Success rate and F1 analogsfor human performance were therefore computed asfollows, using the figures displayed in table 1.Coder 2 TotalTopic Non-topicCoder 1 Topic 88 27 115Non-topic 23 311 334Total 111 338 449Table 1: The topic annotation of Coder 1 and Coder 2.Success rate analog: The agreement percentagebetween the human coders when annotating topicexpressions (449 NPS?
(23+27) NPS449 NPS ?100 = 89%).F1 analog: The performance of Coder 1 eval-uated against the performance of Coder 2 (?Preci-sion?
: 8888+27 = 0.77; ?Recall?
:8888+23 = 0.79; ?F1?:2?
0.77?0.790.77+0.79 = 0.78).Data set Coder 1 Coder 2 Intersect.
HumanTotal NPs 449 449 386 449Success rate 84% 85% 89% 89%Precision 0.77 0.74 0.79 0.79Recall 0.53 0.61 0.67 0.77F1-score 0.63 0.67 0.72 0.78Table 2: Success rates, Precision, Recall, and F1-scores forthe three different data sets.
For comparison, we added successrate and F1 analogs for human performance.4.2 Interpersonal subordinationWe found that syntactic subordination does not havean invariant function as far as information structureis concerned.
The emphasized NPs in the followingexamples are definite pronouns in preverbal positionin syntactically non-subordinate clauses.
But noneof them are perceived as topic expressions.
(14) sa?sodetitkanmaygodtwellv?rebeatthathvisifmanyouhar...have...tabtlostnogetsomemeremorei l?bet afduringugenthe.weekik?right(15) jegItrorthinkmereratherdetiterisfordibecauseatthatmanyouspisereatpa?atdummestupidtidspunktertimesik?rightThe reason seems to be that these NPs occur inepistemic matrix clauses (+epi).The following utterances have not been annotatedfor the +epi feature, since the matrix clauses do notseem to state the speaker?s attitude towards the truthof the subordinate clause.
However, the emphasizedNPs seem to stand in a very similar relation to themessage being conveyed, and none of them wereperceived as topic expressions.
(16) menbutaltsa?you knowjegIharhavebarejustbem?rketnoticedatthatatthatdetiterhasblevetbecomev?rreworseik?right(17) oganddetthatkancanmanyoudathoughsigesaypa?intrethreeugerweeksdetthaterisdasurelyikkenotvildtwildlymegetmuchThis suggests that a more general type of matrixclause than the epistemic matrix clause, namely theinterpersonal matrix clause (Jensen, 2003) would berelevant in this context.
This category would coverall of the above cases.
It is defined as a matrixclause that expresses some attitude towards the mes-113sage conveyed in its subordinate clause.
This moregeneral category presumably signals non-topicalityrather than topicality just like the special case ofepistemic subordination.5 Summary and future workWe have shown that it is possible to generate al-gorithms for Danish dialog that are able to predictthe topic expressions of utterances with near-humanperformance (success rates of 84?89%, F1 scores of0.63?0.72).Furthermore, our investigation has shown thatthe most characteristic features of topic expres-sions are preverbal position (+pre), definiteness(+def), pronominal realisation (+pro), and non-subordination (?sub).
This supports the traditionalview of topic as the constituent in preverbal position.Most interesting is subordination in connectionwith certain matrix clauses.
We discovered that NPsin epistemic matrix clauses were seldom topics.
Incomplex constructions like these the topic expres-sion occurs in the subordinate clause, not the ma-trix clause as would be expected.
We suspect thatthis can be extended to the more general category ofinter-personal matrix clauses.Future work on dialog coherence in Danish, par-ticularly pronoun resolution, may benefit from ourresults.
The centering model, originally formulatedby Grosz et al (1995), models discourse coherencein terms of a ?local center of attention?, viz.
thebackward-looking center, Cb.
Insofar as the Cb cor-responds to a notion like topic, the corpus-based in-vestigation reported here might serve as the empiri-cal basis for an adaptation for Danish dialog of thecentering model.
Attempts have already been madeto adapt centering to dialog (Byron and Stent, 1998),and, importantly, work has also been done on adapt-ing the centering model to other, freer word orderlanguages such as German (Strube and Hahn, 1999).ReferencesDaniel Bu?ring.
1999.
Topic.
In Peter Bosch and Robvan der Sandt, editors, Focus ?
Linguistic, Cogni-tive, and Computational Perspectives, pages 142?165.Cambridge University Press.Donna K. Byron and Amanda J. Stent.
1998.
A prelim-inary model of centering in dialog.
Technical report,The University of Rochester.Alice Davison.
1984.
Syntactic markedness and the def-inition of sentence topic.
Language, 60(4).Elisabeth Engdahl and Enric Vallduv??.
1996.
Informa-tion packaging in HPSG.
Edinburgh working papersin cognitive science: Studies in HPSG, 12:1?31.Barbara J. Grosz, Aravind K. Joshi, and Scott Weinstein.1995.
Centering: a framework for modeling the lo-cal coherence of discourse.
Computational linguistics,21(2):203?225.Jeanette K. Gundel.
1988.
Universals of topic-commentstructure.
In Michael Hammond, Edith Moravcsik,and Jessica Wirth, editors, Studies in syntactic typol-ogy, volume 17 of Studies in syntactic typology, pages209?239.
John Benjamins Publishing Company, Ams-terdam/Philadelphia.Peter Harder and Signe Poulsen.
2000.
Editing forspeaking: first position, foregrounding and objectfronting in Danish and English.
In Elisabeth Engberg-Pedersen and Peter Harder, editors, Ikonicitet og struk-tur, pages 1?22.
Netv?rk for funktionel lingvistik,Copenhagen.Jesper Hermann.
1997.
Dialogiske forsta?elser og deresgrundlag.
In Peter Widell and Mette Kun?e, editors,6.
m?de om udforskningen af dansk sprog, pages 117?129.
MUDS, A?rhus.K.
Anne Jensen.
2003.
Clause Linkage in Spoken Dan-ish.
Ph.D. thesis from the University of Copenhagen,Copenhagen.Knud Lambrecht.
1994.
Information structure and sen-tence form: topic, focus and the mental representa-tions of discourse referents.
Cambridge UniversityPress, Cambridge.Tanya Reinhart.
1982.
Pragmatics and linguistics.
ananalysis of sentence topics.
Distributed by the IndianaUniversity Linguistics Club., pages 1?38.Michael Strube and Udo Hahn.
1999.
Functional center-ing ?
grounding referential coherence in informationstructure.
Computational linguistics, 25(3):309?344.Ole Togeby.
2003.
Fungerer denne s?tning?
?
Funk-tionel dansk sprogl?re.
Gads forlag, Copenhagen.Enric Vallduv??.
1992.
The informational component.Ph.D.
thesis from the University of Pennsylvania,Philadelphia.114
