Proceedings of the 43rd Annual Meeting of the ACL, pages 231?238,Ann Arbor, June 2005. c?2005 Association for Computational LinguisticsScaling up from Dialogue to Multilogue: some principles and benchmarksJonathan Ginzburg and Raquel Ferna?ndezDept of Computer ScienceKing?s College, LondonThe Strand, London WC2R 2LSUK{ginzburg,raquel}@dcs.kcl.ac.ukAbstractThe paper considers how to scale up dialogueprotocols to multilogue, settings with multipleconversationalists.
We extract two benchmarksto evaluate scaled up protocols based on thelong distance resolution possibilities of non-sentential utterances in dialogue and multi-logue in the British National Corpus.
In lightof these benchmarks, we then consider threepossible transformations to dialogue protocols,formulated within an issue-based approach todialogue management.
We show that one suchtransformation yields protocols for queryingand assertion that fulfill these benchmarks.1 IntroductionThe development of dialogue systems in which a humanagent interacts using natural language with a computa-tional system is by now a flourishing domain (see e.g.
(NLE, 2003)), buttressed by an increasing theoretical andexperimental literature on the properties of dialogue (seee.g.
recent work in the SEMDIAL and SIGDIAL confer-ences).
In contrast, the development of multilogue sys-tems, in which conversation with 3 or more participantsensue?is still in its early stages, as is the theoretical andexperimental study of multilogue.
The fundamental issuein tackling multilogue is: how can mechanisms motiv-ated for dialogue (e.g.
information states, protocols, up-date rules etc) be scaled up to multilogue?In this paper we extract from a conversational cor-pus, the British National Corpus (BNC), several bench-marks that characterize dialogue and multilogue inter-action.
These are based on the resolution possibilitiesof non-sentential utterances (NSUs).
We then use thesebenchmarks to evaluate certain general transformationswhose application to a dialogue interaction system yielda system appropriate for multilogue.There are of course various plausible views of the rela-tion between dialogue and multilogue.
One possible ap-proach to take is to view multilogue as a sequence of dia-logues.
Something like this approach seems to be adop-ted in the literature on communication between autonom-ous software agents.
However, even though many situ-ations considered in multiagent systems do involve morethan two agents, most interaction protocols are designedonly for two participants at a time.
This is the case ofthe protocol specifications provided by FIPA (Foundationfor Intelligent Physical Agents) for agent communicationlanguage messages (FIPA, 2003).
The FIPA interactionprotocols (IP) are most typically designed for two parti-cipants, an initiator and a responder .
Some IPs permit thebroadcasting of a message to a group of addressees, andthe reception of multiple responses by the original initi-ator (see most particularly the Contract Net IP).
However,even though more than two agents participate in the com-municative process, as (Dignum and Vreeswijk, 2003)point out, such conversations can not be considered mul-tilogue, but rather a number of parallel dialogues.The Mission Rehearsal Exercise (MRE) Project(Traum and Rickel, 2002), one of the largest multiloguesystems developed hitherto, is a virtual reality envir-onment where multiple partners (including humans andother autonomous agents) engage in multi-conversationsituations.
The MRE is underpinned by an approach tothe modelling of interaction in terms of obligations thatdifferent utterance types bring about originally proposedfor dialogue (see e.g.
(Matheson et al , 2000)).
In par-ticular, this includes a model of the grounding process(Clark, 1996) that involves recognition and constructionof common ground units (CGUs) (see (Traum, 2003)).Modelling of obligations and grounding becomes morecomplex when considering multilogue situations.
Themodel of grounding implemented in the MRE project canonly be used in cases where there is a single initiator andresponder.
It is not clear what the model should be for231multiple addressees: should the contents be consideredgrounded when any of the addressees has acknowledgedthem?
Should evidence of understanding be requiredfrom every addressee?Since their resolution is almost wholly reliant on con-text, non sentential utterances provide a large testbed con-cerning the structure of both dialogue and multilogue.
Insection 2 we present data from the British National Cor-pus (BNC) concerning the resolution of NSUs in dialogueand multilogue.
The main focus of this data is with thedistance between antecedent and fragment.
We use thisto extract certain benchmarks concerning multilogue in-teraction.
Thus, acknowledgement and acceptance mark-ers (e.g.
?mmh?, ?yeah?)
are resolved with reference toan utterance (assertion) which they ground (accept).
Thedata we provide shows that acknowledgements in mul-tilogue, as in dialogue, are adjacent to their antecedent.This provides evidence that, in general, a single addresseeserves to signal grounding.
In contrast, BNC data indic-ates the prevalence in multilogue of short answers thatare resolved using material from an antecedent questionlocated several turns back, whereas in dialogue short an-swers are generally adjacent to their antecedent.
Thisprovides evidence against reducing querying interactionin multilogue to a sequence of dialogues.
We show thatlong distance short answers are a stable phenomenon formultilogue involving both small (?5 persons) and large(> 5 persons) groups, despite the apparently declininginteractivity with increasing group size flagged in exper-imental work (see (Fay et al, 2000)).In section 3 we sketch the basic principles of issuebased dialogue management which we use as a basisfor our subsequent investigations of multilogue interac-tion.
This will include information states and formula-tion of protocols for querying and assertion in dialogue.In section 4 we consider three possible transformationson dialogue protocols into multilogue protocols.
Thesetransformations are entirely general in nature and couldbe applied to protocols stated in whatever specificationlanguage.
We evaluate the protocols that are generatedby these transformations with reference to the bench-marks extracted in section 2.
In particular, we showthat one such transformation, dubbed Add Side Parti-cipants(ASP), yields protocols for querying and asser-tion that fulfill these benchmarks.
Finally, section 5provides some conclusions and pointers to future work.2 Long Distance Resolution of NSUs inDialogue and Multilogue: somebenchmarksThe work we present in this paper is based on empir-ical evidence provided by corpus data extracted from theBritish National Corpus (BNC).2.1 The CorpusOur current corpus is a sub-portion of the BNC conversa-tional transcripts consisting of 14,315 sentences.
The cor-pus was created by randomly excerpting a 200-speaker-turn section from 54 BNC files.
Of these files, 29 aretranscripts of conversations between two dialogue parti-cipants, and 25 files are multilogue transcripts.A total of 1285 NSUs were found in our sub-corpus.Table 1 shows the raw counts of NSUs found in the dia-logue and multilogue transcripts, respectively.NSUs BNC filesDialogue 709 29Multilogue 576 25Total 1285 54Table 1: Total of NSUs in Dialogue and MultilogueAll NSUs encountered within the corpus were clas-sified according to the NSU typology presented in(Ferna?ndez and Ginzburg, 2002).
Additionally, the dis-tance from their antecedent was measured.1 Table 2shows the distribution of NSU categories and their ante-cedent separation distance.
The classes of NSU whichfeature in our discussion below are boldfaced.The BNC annotation includes tagging of units approx-imating to sentences, as identified by the CLAWS seg-mentation scheme (Garside, 1987).
Each sentence unit isassigned an identifier number.
By default it is assumedthat sentences are non-overlapping and that their numer-ation indicates temporal sequence.
When this is not thecase because speakers overlap, the tagging scheme en-codes synchronous speech by means of an alignment mapused to synchronize points within the transcription.
How-ever, even though information about simultaneous speechis available, overlapping sentences are annotated with dif-ferent sentence numbers.In order to be able to measure the distance betweenthe NSUs encountered and their antecedents, all instanceswere tagged with the sentence number of their antecedentutterance.
The distance we report is therefore measuredin terms of sentence numbers.
It should however be notedthat taking into account synchronous speech would notchange the data reported in Table 2 in any significant1This classification was done by one expert annotator.
Toassess its reliability a pilot study of the taxonomy was per-formed using two additional non-expert coders.
These annot-ated 50 randomly selected NSUs (containing a minimum of 2instances of each NSU class, as labelled by the expert annot-ator.).
The agreement achieved by the three coders is reasonablygood, yielding a kappa score ?
= 0.76.
We also assessed the ac-curacy of the coders?
choices in choosing the antecedent utter-ance using the expert annotator?s annotation as a gold standard.Given this, one coder?s accuracy was 92%, whereas the othercoder?s was 96%.232DistanceNSU Class Example Total 1 2 3 4 5 6 >6Acknowledgment Mm mm.
595 578 15 2Short Answer Ballet shoes.
188 104 21 17 5 5 8 28Affirmative Answer Yes.
109 104 4 1Clarification Ellipsis John?
92 76 13 2 1Repeated Ack.
His boss, right.
86 81 2 3Rejection No.
50 49 1Factual Modifier Brilliant!
27 23 2 1 1Repeated Aff.
Ans.
Very far, yes.
26 25 1Helpful Rejection No, my aunt.
24 18 5 1Check Question Okay?
22 15 7Filler ... a cough.
18 16 1 1Bare Mod.
Phrase On the desk.
16 11 4 1Sluice When?
11 10 1Prop.
Modifier Probably.
11 10 1Conjunction Phrase Or a mirror.
10 5 4 1Total 1285 1125 82 26 9 7 8 28Percentage 100 87.6 6.3 2 0.6 0.5 0.6 2.1Table 2: NSUs sorted by Class and Distanceway, as manual examination of all NSUs at more thandistance 3 reveals that the transcription portion betweenantecedent and NSU does not contain any completelysynchronous sentences in such cases.In the examples throughout the paper we shall use ital-ics to indicate speech overlap.
When italics are not used,utterances take place sequentially.2.2 NSU-Antecedent Separation DistanceThe last row in Table 2 shows the distribution of NSU-antecedent separation distances as percentages of thetotal of NSUs found.
This allows us to see that about87% of NSUs have a distance of 1 sentence (i.e.
the ante-cedent was the immediately preceding sentence), and thatthe vast majority (about 96%) have a distance of 3 sen-tences or less.Although the proportion of NSUs found in dialogueand multilogue is roughly the same (see Table 1 above),when taking into account the distance of NSUs from theirantecedent, the proportion of long distance NSUs in mul-tilogue increases radically: the longer the distance, thehigher the proportion of NSUs that were found in multi-logue.
In fact, as Table 3 shows, NSUs that have a dis-tance of 7 sentences or more appear exclusively in multi-logue transcripts.
These differences are significant (?2 =62.24, p ?
0.001).Adjacency of grounding and affirmation utterancesThe data in table 2 highlights a fundamental charac-teristic of the remaining majoritarian classes of NSUs,Ack(nowledgements), Affirmative Answer, CE (clari-fication ellipsis), Repeated Ack(nowledgements), andRejection.
These are used either in grounding interac-tion, or to affirm/reject propositions.2 The overwhelmingadjacency to their antecedent underlines the locality ofthese interactions.Long distance potential for short answers One strik-ing result exhibited in Table 2 is the uneven distribution oflong distance NSUs across categories.
With a few excep-tions, NSUs that have a distance of 3 sentences or moreare exclusively short answers.
Not only is the long dis-tance phenomenon almost exclusively restricted to shortanswers, but the frequency of long distance short answersstands in strong contrast to the other NSUs classes; in-deed, over 44% of short answers have more than distance1, and over 24% have distance 4 or more, like the lastanswer in the following example:(1) Allan: How much do you think?Cynthia: Three hundred pounds.Sue: More.Cynthia: A thousand pounds.Allan: More.Unknown: <unclear>Allan: Eleven hundred quid apparently.
[BNC, G4X]Long distance short answers primarily a multilogueeffect Table 4 shows the total number of short answersfound in dialogue and multilogue respectively, and theproportions sorted by distance over those totals:From this it emerges that short answers are morecommon in multilogue than in dialogue?134(71%) v.2Acknowledgements and acceptances are, in principle, dis-tinct acts: the former involves indication that an utterance hasbeen understood, whereas the latter that an assertion is accepted.In practice, though, acknowledgements in the form of NSUscommonly simultaneously signal acceptances.
Given this, cor-pus studies of NSUs (e.g.
(Ferna?ndez and Ginzburg, 2002)) of-ten conflate the two.233Distance 1 2 3 4 5 6 >6Dialogue 658 (59%) 37 (45%) 11 (45%) 1 (12%) 1 (14%) 1 (13%) 0 (0%)Multilogue 467 (41%) 45 (55%) 15 (55%) 8 (88%) 6 (86%) 7 (87%) 28 (100%)Table 3: NSUs in dialogue and multilogue sorted by distanceShort Answers Total # 1 2 3 > 3Dialogue 54 82 9 9 0Multilogue 134 44 11 8 37Table 4: % over the totals found in dialogue and multilogue54(29%).
Also, the distance pattern exhibited by thesetwo groups is strikingly different: Only 18% of short an-swers found in dialogue have a distance of more than 1sentence, with all of them having a distance of at most 3,like the short answer in (2).
(2) Malcolm: [...] cos what?s three hundred andsixty divided by seven?Anon 1: I don?t know.Malcolm: Yes I don?t know either!Anon 1: Fifty four point fifty one point four.
[BNC, KND]This dialogue/multilogue asymmetry argues against re-ductive views of multilogue as sequential dialogue.Long Distance short answers and group size AsTable 4 shows, all short answers at more than distance3 appear in multilogues.
Following (Fay et al, 2000),we distinguish between small groups (those with 3 to 5participants) and large groups (those with more than 5participants).
The size of the group is determined by theamount of participants that are active when a particularshort answer is uttered.
We consider active participantsthose that have made a contribution within a window of30 turns back from the turn where the short answer wasuttered.Table 5 shows the distribution of long distance shortanswers (distance> 3) in small and large groups respect-ively.
This indicates that long distance short answers aresignificantly more frequent in large groups (?2 = 22.17,p ?
0.001), though still reasonably common in smallgroups.
A pragmatic account correlating group size andfrequency of long distance short answers is offered in thefinal paragraph of section 3.Group Size d > 3 d ?
3 Total?
5 20 73 93(21.5%) (78.5%)> 5 26 15 41(63%) (37%)Table 5: Long distance short answers in small and large groupsLarge group multilogues in the corpus are all tran-scripts of tutorials, training sessions or seminars, whichexhibit a rather particular structure.
The general pat-tern involves a question being asked by the tutor or ses-sion leader, the other participants then taking turns to an-swer that question.
The tutor or leader acts as turn man-ager.
She assigns the turn explicitly usually by addressingthe participants by their name without need to repeat thequestion under discussion.
An example is shown in (3):(3) Anon1: How important is those three componentsand what value would you put on them [...]Anon3: Tone forty five.
Body language thirty .Anon1: Thank you.Anon4: Oh.Anon1: Melanie.Anon5: twenty five.Anon1: Yes.Anon5: Tone of voice twenty five.
[BNC, JYM]Small group multilogues on the other hand have a moreunconstrained structure: after a question is asked, the par-ticipants tend to answer freely.
Answers by different par-ticipants can follow one after the other without explicitacknowledgements nor turn management, like in (4):.
(4) Anon 1: How about finance then?
<pause>Unknown 1: CorruptionUnknown 2: Risk <pause dur=30>Unknown 3: Wage claims <pause dur=18>2.3 Two Benchmarks of multilogueThe data we have seen above leads in particular to the fol-lowing two benchmarks protocols for querying, assertion,and grounding interaction in multilogue:(5) a. Multilogue Long Distance short answers(MLDSA): querying protocols for multiloguemust license short answers an unbounded num-ber of turns from the original query.b.
Multilogue adjacency of ground-ing/acceptance (MAG): assertion and ground-ing protocols for multilogue should licensegrounding/clarification/acceptance moves onlyadjacently to their antecedent utterance.MLDSA and MAG have a somewhat different status:whereas MLDSA is a direct generalization from the data,MAG is a negative constraint, posited given the paucity ofpositive instances.
As such MAG is more open to doubtand we shall treat it as such in the sequel.2343 Issue based Dialogue Management:basic principlesIn this section we outline some of the basic principlesof Issue-based Dialogue Management, which we use asa basis for our subsequent investigations of multilogueinteraction.Information States We assume information states ofthe kind developed in the KoS framework (e.g.
(Gin-zburg, 1996, forthcoming), (Larsson, 2002)) and imple-mented in systems such as GODIS, IBIS, and CLARIE(see e.g.
(Larsson, 2002; Purver, 2004)).
On thisview each dialogue participant?s view of the commonground, their Dialogue Gameboard (DGB), is structuredby a number of attributes including the following three:FACTS: a set of facts representing the shared assump-tions of the CPs, LatestMove: the most recent groun-ded move, and QUD (?questions under discussion?
): apartially ordered set?often taken to be structured as astack?consisting of the currently discussable questions.Querying and Assertion Both querying and asser-tion involve a question becoming maximal in the quer-ier/asserter?s QUD:3 the posed question q for a querywhere q is posed, the polar question p?
for an assertionwhere p is asserted.
Roughly, the responder can sub-sequently either choose to start a discussion (of q or p?
)or, in the case of assertion, to update her FACTS structurewith p. A dialogue participant can downdate q/p?
fromQUD when, as far as her (not necessarily public) goalsdictate, sufficient information has been accumulated inFACTS.
The querying/assertion protocols (in their mostbasic form) are summarized as follows:(6)querying assertionLatestMove = Ask(A,q) LatestMove = Assert(A,p)A: push q onto QUD; A: push p?
onto QUD;release turn; release turnB: push q onto QUD; B: push p?
onto QUD;take turn; take turn;make max-qud?specific; Option 1: Discuss p?utterance4take turn.
Option 2: Accept pLatestMove = Accept(B,p)B: increment FACTS with p;pop p?
from QUD;A: increment FACTS with p;pop p?
from QUD;Following (Larsson, 2002; Cooper, 2004), one can3In other words, pushed onto the stack, if one assumes QUDis a stack.4An utterance whose content is either a proposition p Aboutmax-qud or a question q1 on which max-qud Depends.
For thelatter see footnote 7.
If one assumes QUD to be a stack, then?max-qud?specific?
will in this case reduce to ?q?specific?.
Butthe more general formulation will be important below.decompose interaction protocols into conversationalupdate rules?functions from DGBs into DGBs usingType Theory with Records (TTR).
This allows simpleinterfacing with the grammar, a Constraint-based Gram-mar closely modelled on HPSG but formulated in TTR(see (Ginzburg, forthcoming)).Grounding Interaction Grounding an utterance u : T(?the sign associated with u is of type T?)
is modelled asinvolving the following interaction.
(a) Addressee B triesto anchor the contextual parameters of T. If successful,B acknowledges u (directly, gesturally or implicitly) andresponds to the content of u.
(b) If unsuccessful, B posesa Clarification Request (CR), that arises via utterance co-ercion (see (Ginzburg and Cooper, 2001)).
For reasonsof space we do not formulate an explicit protocol here?the structure of such a protocol resembles the assertionprotocol.
Our subsequent discussion of assertion can bemodified mutatis mutandis to grounding.NSU Resolution We assume the account of NSU res-olution developed in (Ginzburg and Sag, 2000).
Theessential idea they develop is that NSUs get their mainpredicates from context, specifically via unification withthe question that is currently under discussion, an entitydubbed the maximal question under discussion (MAX-QUD).
NSU resolution is, consequently, tied to conver-sational topic, viz.
the MAX-QUD.5Distance effects in dialogue short answers If one as-sumes QUD to be a stack, this affords the potential fornon adjacent short answers in dialogue.
These, as dis-cussed in section 2, are relatively infrequent.
Two com-monly observed dialogue conditions will jointly enforceadjacency between short answers and their interrogativeantecedents: (a) Questions have a simple, one phraseanswer.
(b) Questions can be answered immediately,without preparatory or subsequent discussion.
For multi-logue (or at least certain genres thereof), both these con-ditions are less likely to be maintained: different CPscan supply different answers, even assuming that relat-ive to each CP there is a simple, one phrase answer.
Themore CPs there are in a conversation, the smaller theircommon ground and the more likely the need for cla-rificatory interaction.
A pragmatic account of this typeof the frequency of adjacency in dialogue short answersseems clearly preferable to any actual mechanism thatwould rule out long distance short answers.
These canbe perfectly felicitous?see e.g.
example (1) above which5The resolution of NSUs, on the approach of (Ginzburg andSag, 2000), involves one other parameter, an antecedent sub-utterance they dub the salient-utterance (SAL-UTT).
This playsa role similar to the role played by the parallel element in higherorder unification?based approaches to ellipsis resolution (seee.g.
(Pulman, 1997).
For current purposes, we limit attentionto the MAX-QUD as the nucleus of NSU resolution.235would work fine if the turn uttered by Sue had beenuttered by Allan instead.
Moreover such a pragmatic ac-count leads to the expectation that the frequency of longdistance antecedents is correlated with group size, as in-deed indicated by the data in table 5.4 Scaling up Protocols(Goffman, 1981) introduced the distinction between rat-ified participants and overhearers in a conversation.Within the former are located the speaker and participantswhom she takes into account in her utterance design?the intended addressee(s) of a given utterance, as wellas side participants.
In this section we consider threepossible principles of protocol extension, each of whichcan be viewed as adding roles for participants from oneof Goffman?s categories.
We evaluate the protocol thatresults from the application of each such principle re-lative to the benchmarks we introduced in section 2.3.Seen in this light, the final principle we consider, AddSide Participants (ASP), arguably, yields the best res-ults.
Nonetheless, these three principles would appear tobe complementary?the most general protocol for mul-tilogue will involve, minimally, application of all three.6We state the principles informally and framework inde-pendently as transformations on operational construals ofthe protocols.
In a more extended presentation we willformulate these as functions on TTR conversational up-date rules.The simplest principle is Add Overhearers (AOV).This involves adding participants who merely observe theinteraction.
They keep track of facts concerning a par-ticular interaction, but their context is not facilitated forthem to participate:(7) Given a dialogue protocol pi, add roles C1,.
.
.
,Cnwhere each Ci is a silent participant: given an ut-terance u0 classified as being of type T0, Ci up-dates Ci.DGB.FACTS with the proposition u0 :T0.Applying AOV yields essentially multilogues whichare sequences of dialogues.
A special case of this aremoderated multilogues, where all dialogues involve adesignated individual (who is also responsible for turnassignment.).
Restricting scaling up to applications ofAOV is not sufficient since inter alia this will not fulfillthe MLDSA benchmark.A far stronger principle is Duplicate Responders(DR):(8) Given a dialogue protocol pi, add roles C1,.
.
.
,Cnwhich duplicate the responder role.6We thank an anonymous reviewer for ACL for convincingus of this point.Applying DR to the querying protocol yields the fol-lowing protocol:(9) Querying with multiple responders1.
LatestMove = Ask(A,q)2.
A: push q onto QUD; release turn3.
Resp1: push q onto QUD; take turn; make max-qud?specific utterance; release turn4.
Resp2: push q onto QUD; take turn; make max-qud?specific utterance; release turn5.
.
.
.6.
Respn: push q onto QUD; take turn; make max-qud?specific utterance; release turnThis yields interactions such as (4) above.
The query-ing protocol in (9) licenses long distance short answers,so satisfies the MLDSA benchmark.
On the other hand,the contextual updates it enforces will not enable it to dealwith the following (constructed) variant on (4), in otherwords does not afford responders to comment on previ-ous responders, as opposed to the original querier:(10) A: Who should we invite for the conference?B: Svetlanov.C: No (=Not Svetlanov), ZhdanovD: No (= Not Zhdanov, 6= Not Svetlanov), GergevApplying DR to the assertion protocol will yield thefollowing protocol:(11) Assertion with multiple responders1.
LatestMove = Assert(A,p)2.
A: push p?
onto QUD; release turn3.
Resp1: push p?
onto QUD; take turn; ?
Option 1:Discuss p?, Option 2: Accept p ?4.
Resp2: push p?
onto QUD; take turn; ?
Option 1:Discuss p?, Option 2: Accept p ?5.
.
.
.6.
Respn: push p?
onto QUD; take turn; ?
Option 1:Discuss p?, Option 2: Accept p ?One arguable problem with this protocol?equallyapplicable to the corresponding DRed groundingprotocol?is that it licences long distance acceptance andis, thus, inconsistent with the MAG benchmark.
On theother hand, it is potentially useful for interactions wherethere is explicitly more than one direct addressee.A principle intermediate between AOV and DR is AddSide Participants (ASP):(12) Given a dialogue protocol pi, add rolesC1,.
.
.
,Cn, which effect the same contextual up-date as the interaction initiator.Applying ASP to the dialogue assertion protocol yieldsthe following protocol:(13) Assertion for a conversation involving{A,B,C1,.
.
.
,Cn}2361.
LatestMove = Assert(A,p)2.
A: push p?
onto QUD; release turn3.
Ci: push p?
onto QUD;4.
B: push p?
onto QUD; take turn; ?Option 1: Acceptp, Option 2: Discuss p??
(14) 1.
LatestMove = Accept(B,p)2.
B: increment FACTS with p; pop p?
from QUD;3.
Ci:increment FACTS with p; pop p?
from QUD;4.
A: increment FACTS with p; pop p?
from QUD;This protocol satisfies the MAG benchmark in that ac-ceptance is strictly local.
This is because it enforcescommunal acceptance?acceptance by one CP can countas acceptance by all other addressees of an assertion.There is an obvious rational motivation for this, given thedifficulty of a CP constantly monitoring an entire audi-ence (when this consists of more than one addressee) foracceptance signals?it is well known that the effect ofvisual access on turn taking is highly significant (Dabbsand Ruback, 1987).
It also enforces quick reaction toan assertion?anyone wishing to dissent from p must gettheir reaction in early i.e.
immediately following the as-sertion since further discussion of p?
is not countenancedif acceptance takes place.
The latter can happen of courseas a consequence of a dissenter not being quick on theirfeet; on this protocol to accommodate such cases wouldrequire some type of backtracking.Applying ASP to the dialogue querying protocol yieldsthe following protocol:(15) Querying for a conversation involving{ A,B,C1,.
.
.
,Cn}1.
LatestMove = Ask(A,q)2.
A: push q onto QUD; release turn3.
Ci: push q onto QUD;4.
B: push q onto QUD; take turn; make max-qud?specific utterance.This improves on the DR generated protocol be-cause it does allow responders to comment on previousresponders?the context is modified as in the dialogueprotocol.
Nonetheless, as it stands, this protocol won?tfully deal with examples such as (4)?the issue intro-duced by each successive participant takes precedencegiven that QUD is assumed to be a stack.
This can beremedied by slightly modifying this latter assumption:we will assume that when a question q is pushed ontoQUD it doesn?t subsume all existing questions in QUD,but rather only those on which q does not depend:7(16) q is QUDmod(dependence) maximal iff for any q0 inQUD such that ?Depend(q, q1): q  q0.7 The notion of dependence we assume here is one commonin work on questions, e.g.
(Ginzburg and Sag, 2000), intuitivelycorresponding to the notion of ?is a subquestion of?.
q1 dependson q2 iff any proposition p such that p resolves q2 also satisfiesp is about q1.This is conceptually attractive because it reinforcesthat the order in QUD has an intuitive semantic basis.One effect this has is to ensure that any polar questionp?
introduced into QUD, whether by an assertion or bya query, subsequent to a wh-question q on which p?
de-pends does not subsume q.
Hence, q will remain access-ible as an antecedent for NSUs, as long as no new unre-lated topic has been introduced.
Assuming this modifica-tion to QUD is implemented in the above ASP?generatedprotocols, both MLDSA and MAG benchmarks are ful-filled.5 Conclusions and Further WorkIn this paper we consider how to scale up dialogue proto-cols to multilogue, settings with multiple conversation-alists.
We have extracted two benchmarks, MLDSAand MAG, to evaluate scaled up protocols based on thelong distance resolution possibilities of NSUs in dialogueand multilogue in the BNC.
MLDSA, the requirementthat multilogue protocols license long distance short an-swers, derives from the statistically significant increasein frequency of long distance short answers in multi-logue as opposed to dialogue.
MAG, the requirementthat multilogue protocols enforce adjacency of accept-ance and grounding interaction, derives from the over-whelming locality of acceptance/grounding interactionin multilogue, as in dialogue.
In light of these bench-marks, we then consider three possible transformationsto dialogue protocols formulated within an issue-basedapproach to dialogue management.
Each transformationcan be intuited as adding roles that correspond to dis-tinct categories of an audience originally suggested byGoffman.
The three transformations would appear to becomplementary?it seems reasonable to assume that ap-plication of all three (in some formulation) will be neededfor wide coverage of multilogue.
MLDSA and MAG canbe fulfilled within an approach that combines the AddSide Participants transformation on protocols with anindependently motivated modification of the structure ofQUD from a canonical stack to a stack where maximalityis conditioned by issue dependence.With respect to long distance short answers our ac-count licences their occurrence in dialogue, as in mul-tilogue.
We offer a pragmatic account for their low fre-quency in dialogue, which indeed generalizes to explaina statistically significant correlation we observe betweentheir increased incidence and increasing active participantsize.
We plan to carry out more detailed work, bothcorpus?based and experimental, in order to evaluate thestatus of MAG and, correspondingly to assess just howlocal acceptance and grounding interaction really are.We also intend to implement multilogue protocols inCLARIE so it can simulate multilogue.
We will then eval-uate its ability to process NSUs from the BNC.237AcknowledgementsWe would like to thank three anonymous ACL review-ers for extremely useful comments, which in particularforced us to rethink some key issues.
We would also liketo thank Pat Healey, Shalom Lappin, Richard Power, andMatt Purver for discussion, and Zoran Macura and YoSato for help in assessing the NSU taxonomy.
Earlierversions of this work were presented at colloquia at ITRI,Brighton, and at the Universite?
Paris, 7.
The researchdescribed here is funded by grant number RES-000-23-0065 from the Economic and Social Research Council ofthe United Kingdom.ReferencesSpecial issue on best practice in spoken language dia-logue systems engineering.
2003.
Natural LanguageEngineering.Herbert Clark.
1996.
Using Language.
Cambridge Uni-versity Press, Cambridge.Robin Cooper.
2004.
A type theoretic approach to in-formation state update in issue based dialogue man-agement.
Invited paper, Catalog?04, the 8th Workshopon the Semantics and Pragmatics of Dialogue, PompeuFabra University, Barcelona.James Dabbs and R. Barry Ruback.
1987 Dimensions ofgroup process: amount and structure of vocal interac-tion.
Advances in Experimental Social Psychology 20,pages 123?169.Frank P.M. Dignum and Gerard A.W.
Vreeswijk.
2003.Towards a testbed for multi-party dialogues.
In Pro-ceedings of the first International Joint Conference onAutonomous Agents and Multi-agent Systems (AAMAS2003).Nicholas Fay, Simon Garrod, and Jean Carletta.
2000.Group discussion as interactive dialogue or serialmonologue.
Psychological Science, pages 481?486.Raquel Ferna?ndez and Jonathan Ginzburg.
2002.
Non-sentential utterances: A corpus study.
Traitement auto-matique des languages.
Dialogue, 43(2):13?42.FIPA.
2003.
The foundation for intelligentphysical agents.
interaction protocol specifications.http://www.fipa.org.Roger Garside.
1987.
The CLAWS word-tagging sys-tem, In Roger Garside et al editors, The computa-tional analysis of English: a corpus-based approach,Longman, Harlow, pages 30?41.Jonathan Ginzburg and Robin Cooper.
2001.
Resolv-ing ellipsis in clarification.
In Proceedings of the 39thMeeting of the Association for Computational Lin-guistics, Toulouse.Jonathan Ginzburg and Ivan A.
Sag.
2000.
InterrogativeInvestigations: the form, meaning and use of EnglishInterrogatives.
Number 123 in CSLI Lecture Notes.CSLI Publications, Stanford: California.Jonathan Ginzburg.
(forthcoming).
Semantics and Inter-action in Dialogue CSLI Publications and Universityof Chicago Press.Jonathan Ginzburg.
1996.
Interrogatives: Questions,facts, and dialogue.
In Shalom Lappin, editor, Hand-book of Contemporary Semantic Theory.
Blackwell,Oxford.Erving Goffman 1981 Forms of Talk.
University ofPennsylvania Press, Philadelphia.Staffan Larsson.
2002.
Issue based Dialogue Manage-ment.
Ph.D. thesis, Gothenburg University.Colin Matheson and Massimo Poesio and David Traum.2000.
Modelling Grounding and Discourse Obliga-tions Using Update Rules.
Proceedings of NAACL2000, Seattle.Stephen Pulman.
1997.
Focus and higher order unifica-tion.
Linguistics and Philosophy, 20.Matthew Purver.
2004.
The Theory and Use of Clarific-ation in Dialogue.
Ph.D. thesis, King?s College, Lon-don.David Traum and Jeff Rickel.
2002.
Embodied agentsfor multi-party dialogue in immersive virtual world.
InProceedings of the first International Joint Conferenceon Autonomous Agents and Multi-agent Systems (AA-MAS 2002), pages 766?773.David Traum.
2003.
Semantics and pragmatics of ques-tions and answers for dialogue agents.
In H. Bunt,editor, Proceedings of the 5th International Workshopon Computational Semantics, pages 380?394, Tilburg.ITK, Tilburg University.238
