Proceedings of the ACL Student Research Workshop, pages 127?132,Ann Arbor, Michigan, June 2005. c?2005 Association for Computational LinguisticsUsing bilingual dependencies to align words inEnlish/French parallel corporaSylwia OzdowskaERSS - CNRS & Universit?
de Toulouse le Mirail5 all?es Antonio Machado31058 Toulouse Cedex Franceozdowska@univ-tlse2.frAbstractThis paper describes a word and phrasealignment approach based on a depend-ency analysis of French/English parallelcorpora, referred to as alignment by ?syn-tax-based propagation.?
Both corpora areanalysed with a deep and robust depend-ency parser.
Starting with an anchor pairconsisting of two words that are transla-tions of one another within aligned sen-tences, the alignment link is propagated tosyntactically connected words.1 IntroductionIt is now an acknowledged fact that alignment ofparallel corpora at the word and phrase level playsa major role in bilingual linguistic resource extrac-tion and machine translation.
There are basicallytwo kinds of systems working at these segmenta-tion levels: the most widespread rely on statisticalmodels, in particular the IBM ones (Brown et al,1993); others combine simpler association meas-ures with different kinds of linguistic information(Arhenberg et al, 2000; Barbu, 2004).
Mainlydedicated to machine translation, purely statisticalsystems have gradually been enriched with syntac-tic knowledge (Wu, 2000; Yamada & Knight,2001; Ding et al, 2003; Lin & Cherry, 2003).
Aspointed out in these studies, the introduction oflinguistic knowledge leads to a significant im-provement in alignment quality.In the method described hereafter, syntactic infor-mation is the kernel of the alignment process.
In-deed, syntactic dependencies identified on bothsides of English/French bitexts with a parser areused to discover correspondences between words.This approach has been chosen in order to capturefrequent alignments as well as sparse and/or cor-pus-specific ones.
Moreover, as stressed in previ-ous research, using syntactic dependencies seemsto be particularly well suited to coping with theproblem of linguistic variation across languages(Hwa et al, 2002).
The implemented procedure isreferred to as ?syntax-based propagation?.2 Starting hypothesisThe idea is to make use of dependency relations toalign words (Debili & Zribi, 1996).
The reasoningis as follows (Figure 1): if there is a pair of anchorwords, i.e.
if two words w1i (community in the ex-ample) and w2m (communaut?)
are aligned at thesentence level, and if there is a dependency rela-tion between w1i (community) and w1j (ban) on theone hand, and between w2m (communaut?)
and w2n(interdire) on the other hand, then the alignmentlink is propagated from the anchor pair (commu-nity, communaut?)
to the syntactically connectedwords (ban, interdire).subjThe Community banned imports of ivory.La Communaut?
a interdit l?importation d?ivoire.subjFigure 1.
Syntax-based propagation127We describe hereafter the overall design of thesyntax-based propagation process.
We present theresults of applying it to three parsed Eng-lish/French bitexts and compare them to the base-line obtained with the giza++ package (Och &Ney, 2000).3 Corpora and parsersThe syntax-based alignment was tested on threeparallel corpora aligned at the sentence level:INRA, JOC and HLT.
The first corpus was com-piled at the National Institute for Agricultural Re-search (INRA)1 to enrich a bilingual terminologydatabase used by translators.
It comprises 6815aligned sentences2 and mainly consists of researchpapers and popular-science texts.The JOC corpus was made available in the frame-work of the ARCADE project, which focused onthe evaluation of parallel text alignment systems(Veronis & Langlais, 2000).
It contains writtenquestions on a wide variety of topics addressed bymembers of the European Parliament to the Euro-pean Commission, as well as the correspondinganswers.
It is made up of 8765 aligned sentences.The HLT corpus was used in the evaluation ofword alignment systems described in (Mihalcea &Pederson, 2003).
It contains 447 aligned sentencesfrom the Canadian Hansards (Och & Ney, 2000).The corpus processing was carried out by aFrench/English parser, SYNTEX (Fabre & Bouri-gault, 2001).
SYNTEX is a dependency parserwhose input is a POS tagged3 corpus ?
meaningeach word in the corpus is assigned a lemma andgrammatical tag.
The parser identifies dependen-cies in the sentences of a given corpus, for instancesubjects and direct and indirect objects of verbs.The parsing is performed independently in eachlanguage, yet the outputs are quite homogeneoussince the syntactic dependencies are identified andrepresented in the same way in both languages.In addition to parsed English/French bitexts, thesyntax-based alignment requires pairs of anchorwords be identified prior to propagation.4 Identification of anchor pairs1 We are grateful to A. Lacombe who allowed us to use this corpus for researchpurposes.2 The sentence-level alignment was performed using Japa(http://www.rali.iro.umontreal.ca).3 The French and English versions of Treetagger (http://www.ims.uni-stuttgart.de) are used.To derive a set of words that are likely to be usefulfor initiating the propagation process, we imple-mented a widely used method of co-occurrencecounts described notably in (Gale & Church, 1991;Ahrenberg et al, 2000).
For each source (w1) andtarget (w2) word, the Jaccard association score iscomputed as follows:j(w1, w2) = f(w1, w2)/f(w1) + f(w2) ?
f(w1, w2)The Jaccard is computed provided the number ofoverall occurrences of w1 and w2 is higher than 4,since statistical techniques have proved to be par-ticularly efficient when aligning frequent units.The alignments are filtered according to the j(w1,w2) value, and retained if this value was 0.2 orhigher.
Moreover, two further tests based on cog-nate recognition and mutual correspondence condi-tion are applied.The identification of anchor pairs, consisting ofwords that are translation equivalents withinaligned sentences, combines both the projection ofthe initial lexicon and the recognition of cognatesfor words that have not been taken into account inthe lexicon.
These pairs are used as the startingpoint of the propagation process4.Table 1 gives some characteristics of the corpora.INRA JOC HLTaligned sentences 6815 8765 477anchor pairs 4376 60762 996w1/source sentence 21 25 15w2/target sentence 24 30 16anchor pairs/sentence 6.38 6.93 2.22Table 1.
Identification of anchor pairs5 Syntax-based propagation5.1 Two types of propagationThe syntax-based propagation may be performedin two different directions, as a given word islikely to be both governor and dependent with re-spect to other words.
The first direction starts withdependent anchor words and propagates the align-ment link to the governors (Dep-to-Gov propaga-tion).
The Dep-to-Gov propagation is a priori notambiguous since one dependent is governed at4 The process is not iterative up to date so the number of words it allows to aligndepends on the initial number of anchor words per sentence.128most by one word.
Thus, there is just one relationon which the propagation can be based.
The sec-ond direction goes the opposite way: starting withgovernor anchor words, the alignment link ispropagated to their dependents (Gov-to-Deppropagation).
In this case, several relations thatmay be used to achieve the propagation are avail-able, as it is possible for a governor to have morethan one dependent.
So the propagation is poten-tially ambiguous.
The ambiguity is particularlywidespread when propagating from head nouns totheir nominal and adjectival dependents.
In Figure2, there is one occurrence of the relation pcomp inEnglish and two in French.
Thus, it is not possibleto determine a priori whether to propagate usingthe relations mod/pcomp2, on the one hand, andpcomp1/pcomp2?, on the other hand, ormod/pcomp2?
and pcomp1/pcomp2.
Moreover,even if there is just one occurrence of the samerelation in each language, it does not mean that thepropagation is of necessity performed through thesame relation, as shown in Figure 3.pcomp2?modFigure 2.
Ambiguous propagation from head nounsFigure 3.
Ambiguous propagation from head nounsIn the following sections, we describe the twotypes of propagation.
The propagation patterns werely on are given in the form CDep-rel-CGov,where CDep is the POS of the dependent, rel is thedependency relation and CGov, the POS of thegovernor.
The anchor element is underlined andthe one aligned by propagation is in bold.5.2 Alignment of verbsVerbs are aligned according to eight propagationpatterns.DEP-TO-GOV PROPAGATION TO ALIGN GOVERNORVERBS.
The patterns are: Adv-mod-V (1), N-subj-V (2), N-obj-V (3), N-pcomp-V (4) and V-pcomp-V (5).
(1) The net is then hauled to the shore.Le filet est ensuite hal?
?
terre.
(2) The fish are generally caught when they mi-grate from their feeding areas.G?n?ralement les poissons sont captur?s quand ilsmigrent de leur zone d?engraissement.
(3) Most of the young shad reach the sea.La plupart des alosons gagne la mer.
(4) The eggs are very small and fall to the bottom.Les oeufs de tr?s petite taille tombent sur le fond.
(5) X is a model which was designed to stimulate?X est un mod?le qui a ?t?
con?u pour stimuler?GOV-TO-DEP PROPAGATION TO ALIGN DEPENDENTVERBS.
The alignment links are propagated fromthe dependents to the verbs using three propagationpatterns: V-pcomp-V (1), V-pcomp-N (2) and V-pcomp-Adj (3).mod       pcomp1(1) Ploughing tends to destroy the soil microag-gregated structure.outdoor use  of waterutilisation  en ext?rieur de l?eauLe labour tend ?
rompre leur structure microagr?-g?e.pcomp2(2) The capacity to colonize the digestive mu-cosa?L?aptitude ?
coloniser le tube digestif?
(3) An established infection is impossible to con-trol.mod          pcomp1Toute infection en cours est impossible ?
ma?triser.reference product on the marketproduit 5.3 Alignment of adjectives and nouns  commercial de r?f?renceThe two types of propagation described in section5.2 for use with verbs are also used to align adjec-tives and nouns.
However, these latter categoriescannot be treated in a fully independent way whenpropagating from head noun anchor words in orderto align the dependents.
The syntactic structure ofnoun phrases may be different in English andFrench, since they rely on a different type of com-position to produce compounds and on the sameone to produce free noun phrases.
Thus, the poten-tial ambiguity arising from the Gov-to-Dep propa-gation from head nouns mentioned in section 5.1pcomp2129may be accompanied by variation phenomena af-fecting the category of the dependents.
For in-stance, a noun may be rendered by an adjective, orvice versa: tax treatment profits is translated bytraitement fiscal des b?n?fices, so the noun tax is incorrespondence with the adjective fiscal.
The syn-tactic relations used to propagate the alignmentlinks are thus different.In order to cope with the variation problem, thepropagation is performed regardless of whether thesyntactic relations are identical in both languages,and regardless of whether the POS of the words tobe aligned are the same.
To sum up, adjectives andnouns are aligned separately of each other bymeans of Dep-to-Gov propagation or Gov-to-Deppropagation provided that the governor is not anoun.
They are not treated separately when align-ing by means of Gov-to-Dep propagation fromhead noun anchor pairs.DEP-TO-GOV PROPAGATION TO ALIGNADJECTIVES.
The propagation patterns involvedare: Adv-mod-Adj (1), N-pcomp-Adj (2) and V-pcomp-Adj (3).
(1) The white cedar exhibits a very common physi-cal defect.Le Poirier-pays pr?sente un d?faut de forme tr?sfr?quent.
(2) The area presently devoted to agriculturerepresents?La surface actuellement consacr?e ?
l?agriculturerepr?senterait?
(3) Only four plots were liable to receive this input.Seulement quatre parcelles sont susceptibles derecevoir ces apports.DEP-TO-GOV PROPAGATION TO ALIGN NOUNS.Nouns are aligned according to the followingpropagation patterns: Adj-mod-N (1), N-mod-N/N-pcomp-N (2), N-pcomp-N (3) and V-pcomp-N (4).
(1) Allis shad remain on the continental shelf.La grande alose reste sur le plateau continental.
(2) Nature of micropollutant carriers.La nature des transporteurs des micropolluants.
(3) The bodies of shad are generally fusiform.Le corps des aloses est g?n?ralement fusiforme.
(4) Ability to react to light.Capacit?
?
r?agir ?
la lumi?re.UNAMBIGUOUS GOV-TO-DEP PROPAGATION TOALIGN NOUNS.
The propagation is not ambiguouswhen dependent nouns are not governed by a noun.This is the case when considering the followingthree propagation patterns: N-subj|obj-V (1), N-pcomp-V (2) and N-pcomp-Adj (3).
(1) The caterpillars can inoculate the fungus.Les chenilles peuvent inoculer le champignon.
(2) The roots are placed in tanks.Les racines sont plac?es en bacs.
(3) ...a fungus responsible for rot.... un champignon responsable de la pourriture.POTENTIALLY AMBIGUOUS GOV-TO-DEPPROPAGATION TO ALIGN NOUNS AND ADJECTIVES.Considering the potential ambiguity described insection 5.1, the algorithm which supports Gov-to-Dep propagation from head noun anchor words(n1, n2) takes into account three situations whichare likely to occur.First, each of n1 and n2 has only one dependent,respectively dep1 and dep2, involving one of themod or pcomp relation; dep1 and dep2 are aligned.the drained wheyle lactos?rum d??gouttage?
(drained, ?gouttage)Second, n1 has one dependent dep1 and n2 several{dep21, dep22, ?, dep2n}, or vice versa.
For eachdep2i, check if one of the possible alignments hasalready been performed, either by propagation oranchor word spotting.
If such an alignment exists,remove the others (dep1, dep2k) such that k ?
i, orvice versa.
Otherwise, retain all the alignments(dep1, dep2i), or vice versa, without resolving theambiguity.stimulant substances which are absent from?substances solubles stimulantes absentes de?
(stimulant, {soluble, stimulant, absent})already_aligned(stimulant, stimulant) = 1?
(stimulant, stimulant)Third, both n1 and n2 have several dependents,{dep11, dep12, ?, dep1m} and {dep21, dep22, ?,dep2n} respectively.
For each dep1i and each dep2j,check if one/several alignments have already beenperformed.
If such alignments exist, remove all thealignments (dep1k, dep2l) such that k ?
i or l ?
j.Otherwise, retain all the alignments (dep1i, dep2j)without resolving the ambiguity.unfair trading practicespratiques commerciales d?loyales(unfair, {commercial, d?loyal})(trading, {commercial, d?loyal})already_aligned(unfair, d?loyal) = 1130?
(unfair, d?loyal)?
(trading, commercial)a big rectangular net, which is lowered?un vaste filet rectangulaire immerg??
(big, {vaste, rectangulaire, immerg?
})(rectangular, {vaste, rectangulaire, immerg?
})already_aligned(rectangular, rectangulaire) = 1?
(rectangular, rectangulaire)?
(big, {vaste, immerg?
})The implemented propagation algorithm has twomajor advantages: it permits the resolution of somealignment ambiguities, taking advantage of align-ments that have been previously performed.
Thisalgorithm also allows the system to cope with theproblem of non-correspondence between Englishand French syntactic structures and makes it possi-ble to align words using various syntactic relationsin both languages, even though the category of thewords under consideration is different.5.4 Comparative evaluationThe results achieved using the syntax-based align-ment (sba) are compared to those obtained with thebaseline provided by the IBM models implementedin the giza++ package (Och & Ney, 2000) (Table 2and Table 3).
More precisely, we used the intersec-tion of IBM-4 Viterbi alignments for both transla-tion directions.
Table 2 shows the precisionassessed against a reference set of 1000 alignmentsmanually annotated in the INRA and the JOC cor-pus respectively.
It can be observed that the syn-tax-based alignment offers good accuracy, similarto that of the baseline.INRA JOCsba giza++ sba giza++Precision 0.93 0.96 0.95 0.94Table 2. sba ~ giza++: INRA & JOCMore complete results (precision, recall and f-measure) are presented in Table 3.
They have beenobtained using reference data from an evaluationof word alignment systems (Mihalcea & Pederson,2003).
It should be noted that the figures concern-ing the syntax-based alignment were assessed inrespect to the annotations that do not involveempty words, since up to now we focused only oncontent words.
Whereas the baseline precision5 forthe HLT corpus is comparable to the one reportedin Table 2, the syntax-based alignment score de-creases.
Moreover, the difference between the twoapproaches is considerable with regard to the re-call.
This may be due to the fact that our syntax-based alignment approach basically relies on iso-morphic syntactic structures, i.e.
in which the twofollowing conditions are met: i) the relation underconsideration is identical in both languages and ii)the words involved in the syntactic propagationhave the same POS.
Most of the cases of non-isomorphism, apart from the ones presented sec-tion 5.1, are not taken into account.HLTsba giza++Precision 0.83 0.95Recall 0.58 0.85F-measure 0.68 0.89Table 3. sba ~ giza++: HLT6 DiscussionThe results achieved by the syntax-based propaga-tion method are quite encouraging.
They show ahigh global precision rate ?
93% for the INRAcorpus and 95% for the JOC ?
comparable to thatreported for the giza++ baseline system.
The fig-ures vary more from the HLT reference set.
Onepossible explanation is the fact that the gold stan-dard has been established according to specificannotation criteria.
Indeed, the HLT project con-cerned above all statistical alignment systems aim-ing at language modelling for machine translation.In approaches such as Lin and Cherry?s (2003),linguistic knowledge is considered secondary tostatistical information even if it improves thealignment quality.
The syntax-based alignmentapproach was designed to capture both frequentalignments and those involving sparse or corpus-specific words as well as to cope with the problemof non-correspondance across languages.
That iswhy we chose the linguistic knowledge as the maininformation source.5 Precision, recall and f-measure reported by Och and Ney (2003) for  the inter-section of IBM-4 Viterbi alignments from both translation directions.1317 ConclusionWe have presented an efficient method for aligningwords in English/French parallel corpora.
It makesthe most of dependency relations to produce highlyaccurate alignments when the same propagationpattern is used in both languages, i.e.
when thesyntactic structures are identical, as well as incases of noun/adjective transpositions, even if thecategory of the words to be aligned varies (Oz-dowska, 2004).
We are currently pursuing thestudy of non-correspondence between syntacticstructures in English and French.
The aim is to de-termine whether there are some regularities in therendering of specific English structures into givenFrench ones.
If variation across languages is sub-ject to such regularities, as assumed in (Dorr, 1994;Fox, 2002; Ozdowska & Bourigault, 2004), thesyntax-based propagation could then be extendedto cases of non-correspondence in order to improverecall.ReferencesAhrenberg L., Andersson M. & Merkel M. 2000.
Aknowledge-lite approach to word alignment.
InV?ronis J.
(Ed.
), Parallel Text Processing: Alignmentand Use of Translation Corpora, Dordrecht: KluwerAcademic Publishers, pp.
97-138.Barbu A. M. 2004.
Simple linguistic methods for im-proving a word alignment algorithm.
In Actes de laConf?rence JADT.Brown P., Della Pietra S. & Mercer R. 1993.
Themathematics of statistical machine translation: pa-rameter estimation.
In Computational Linguistics,19(2), pp.
263-311.Debili F. & Zribi A.
1996.
Les d?pendances syntaxiquesau service de l?appariement des mots.
In Actes du10?me Congr?s RFIA.Ding Y., Gildea D. & Palmer M. 2003.
An Algorithmfor Word-Level Alignment of Parallel DependencyTrees.
In Proceedings of the 9th MT Summit of Inter-national Association of Machine Translation.Dorr B.
1994.
Machine translation divergences: a for-mal description and proposed solution.
In Computa-tional Linguistics, 20(4), pp.
597-633.Fabre C. & Bourigault D. 2001.
Linguistic clues forcorpus-based acquisition of lexical dependencies.
InProceedings of the Corpus Linguistic Conference.Fox H. J.
2002.
Phrasal Cohesion and Statistical Ma-chine Translation.
In Proceedings of EMNLP-02, pp.304-311.Gale W. A.
& Church K. W. 1991.
Identifying WordCorrespondences in Parallel Text.
In Proceedings ofthe DARPA Workshop on Speech and Natural Lan-guage.Hwa R., Resnik P., Weinberg A.
& Kolak O.
2002.Evaluating Translational Correspondence Using An-notation Projection.
In Proceedings of the 40th An-nual Conference of the Association forComputational Linguistics.Lin D. & Cherry C. 2003.
ProAlign: Shared Task Sys-tem Description.
In HLT-NAACL 2003 Workshop onBuilding and Using Parallel Texts: Data Driven Ma-chine Translation and Beyond.Mihalcea R. & Pedersen T. 2003.
An Evaluation Exer-cise for Word Alignment.
In HLT-NAACL 2003Workshop on Building and Using Parallel Texts:Data Driven Machine Translation and Beyond.Och F. Z.
& Ney H., 2003.
A Systematic Comparison ofVarious Statistical Alignment Models.
In Computa-tional Linguistics, 29(1), pp.
19-51.Ozdowska S. 2004.
Identifying correspondences be-tween words: an approach based on a bilingual syn-tactic analysis of French/English parallel corpora.
InCOLING 04 Workshop on Multilingual LinguisticResources.Ozdowska S. & Bourigault D. 2004.
D?tection de rela-tions d?appariement bilingue entre termes ?
partird?une analyse syntaxique de corpus.
In Actes des14?me Congr?s RFIA.V?ronis J.
& Langlais P. 2000.
Evaluation of paralleltext alignment systems.
The ARCADE project.
InV?ronis J.
(ed.
), Parallel Text Processing: Alignmentand Use of Translation Corpora, Dordrecht: KluwerAcademic Publishers, pp.
371-388Wu D. 2000.
Bracketing and aligning words and con-stituents in parallel text using Stochastic InversionTransduction Grammars.
In V?ronis, J.
(Ed.
), Paral-lel Text Processing: Alignment and Use of Transla-tion Corpora, Dordrecht: Kluwer AcademicPublishers, pp.
139-167.Yamada K. & Knight K. 2001.
A syntax-based statisti-cal translation model.
In Proceedings of the 39th An-nual Conference of the Association forComputational Linguistics.132
