Proceedings of the 43rd Annual Meeting of the ACL, pages 133?140,Ann Arbor, June 2005. c?2005 Association for Computational LinguisticsExtracting Semantic Orientations of Words using Spin ModelHiroya Takamura Takashi Inui Manabu OkumuraPrecision and Intelligence LaboratoryTokyo Institute of Technology4259 Nagatsuta Midori-ku Yokohama, 226-8503 Japan{takamura,oku}@pi.titech.ac.jp,tinui@lr.pi.titech.ac.jpAbstractWe propose a method for extracting se-mantic orientations of words: desirableor undesirable.
Regarding semantic ori-entations as spins of electrons, we usethe mean field approximation to computethe approximate probability function ofthe system instead of the intractable ac-tual probability function.
We also pro-pose a criterion for parameter selection onthe basis of magnetization.
Given onlya small number of seed words, the pro-posed method extracts semantic orienta-tions with high accuracy in the exper-iments on English lexicon.
The resultis comparable to the best value ever re-ported.1 IntroductionIdentification of emotions (including opinions andattitudes) in text is an important task which has a va-riety of possible applications.
For example, we canefficiently collect opinions on a new product fromthe internet, if opinions in bulletin boards are auto-matically identified.
We will also be able to grasppeople?s attitudes in questionnaire, without actuallyreading all the responds.An important resource in realizing such identifi-cation tasks is a list of words with semantic orienta-tion: positive or negative (desirable or undesirable).Frequent appearance of positive words in a docu-ment implies that the writer of the document wouldhave a positive attitude on the topic.
The goal of thispaper is to propose a method for automatically cre-ating such a word list from glosses (i.e., definitionor explanation sentences ) in a dictionary, as well asfrom a thesaurus and a corpus.
For this purpose, weuse spin model, which is a model for a set of elec-trons with spins.
Just as each electron has a direc-tion of spin (up or down), each word has a semanticorientation (positive or negative).
We therefore re-gard words as a set of electrons and apply the meanfield approximation to compute the average orienta-tion of each word.
We also propose a criterion forparameter selection on the basis of magnetization, anotion in statistical physics.
Magnetization indicatesthe global tendency of polarization.We empirically show that the proposed methodworks well even with a small number of seed words.2 Related WorkTurney and Littman (2003) proposed two algorithmsfor extraction of semantic orientations of words.
Tocalculate the association strength of a word with pos-itive (negative) seed words, they used the numberof hits returned by a search engine, with a queryconsisting of the word and one of seed words (e.g.,?word NEAR good?, ?word NEAR bad?).
They re-garded the difference of two association strengths asa measure of semantic orientation.
They also pro-posed to use Latent Semantic Analysis to computethe association strength with seed words.
An em-pirical evaluation was conducted on 3596 words ex-tracted from General Inquirer (Stone et al, 1966).Hatzivassiloglou and McKeown (1997) focusedon conjunctive expressions such as ?simple and133well-received?
and ?simplistic but well-received?,where the former pair of words tend to have the samesemantic orientation, and the latter tend to have theopposite orientation.
They first classify each con-junctive expression into the same-orientation classor the different-orientation class.
They then use theclassified expressions to cluster words into the pos-itive class and the negative class.
The experimentswere conducted with the dataset that they created ontheir own.
Evaluation was limited to adjectives.Kobayashi et al (2001) proposed a method for ex-tracting semantic orientations of words with boot-strapping.
The semantic orientation of a word isdetermined on the basis of its gloss, if any of their52 hand-crafted rules is applicable to the sentence.Rules are applied iteratively in the bootstrappingframework.
Although Kobayashi et al?s work pro-vided an accurate investigation on this task and in-spired our work, it has drawbacks: low recall andlanguage dependency.
They reported that the seman-tic orientations of only 113 words are extracted withprecision 84.1% (the low recall is due partly to theirlarge set of seed words (1187 words)).
The hand-crafted rules are only for Japanese.Kamps et al (2004) constructed a network byconnecting each pair of synonymous words providedby WordNet (Fellbaum, 1998), and then used theshortest paths to two seed words ?good?
and ?bad?to obtain the semantic orientation of a word.
Limi-tations of their method are that a synonymy dictio-nary is required, that antonym relations cannot beincorporated into the model.
Their evaluation is re-stricted to adjectives.
The method proposed by Huand Liu (2004) is quite similar to the shortest-pathmethod.
Hu and Liu?s method iteratively determinesthe semantic orientations of the words neighboringany of the seed words and enlarges the seed wordset in a bootstrapping manner.Subjective words are often semantically oriented.Wiebe (2000) used a learning method to collect sub-jective adjectives from corpora.
Riloff et al (2003)focused on the collection of subjective nouns.We later compare our method with Turney andLittman?s method and Kamps et al?s method.The other pieces of research work mentionedabove are related to ours, but their objectives are dif-ferent from ours.3 Spin Model and Mean FieldApproximationWe give a brief introduction to the spin modeland the mean field approximation, which are well-studied subjects both in the statistical mechanicsand the machine learning communities (Geman andGeman, 1984; Inoue and Carlucci, 2001; Mackay,2003).A spin system is an array of N electrons, each ofwhich has a spin with one of two values ?+1 (up)?
or?
?1 (down)?.
Two electrons next to each other en-ergetically tend to have the same spin.
This modelis called the Ising spin model, or simply the spinmodel (Chandler, 1987).
The energy function of aspin system can be represented asE(x,W ) = ?12?ijwijxixj , (1)where xi and xj (?
x) are spins of electrons i and j,matrix W = {wij} represents weights between twoelectrons.In a spin system, the variable vector x follows theBoltzmann distribution :P (x|W ) = exp(?
?E(x,W ))Z(W ) , (2)where Z(W ) = ?x exp(?
?E(x,W )) is the nor-malization factor, which is called the partitionfunction and ?
is a constant called the inverse-temperature.
As this distribution function suggests,a configuration with a higher energy value has asmaller probability.Although we have a distribution function, com-puting various probability values is computationallydifficult.
The bottleneck is the evaluation of Z(W ),since there are 2N configurations of spins in this sys-tem.We therefore approximate P (x|W ) with a simplefunction Q(x; ?).
The set of parameters ?
for Q, isdetermined such that Q(x; ?)
becomes as similar toP (x|W ) as possible.
As a measure for the distancebetween P and Q, the variational free energy F isoften used, which is defined as the difference be-tween the mean energy with respect to Q and theentropy of Q :F (?)
= ?
?xQ(x; ?
)E(x;W )134?(?
?xQ(x; ?)
logQ(x; ?)).
(3)The parameters ?
that minimizes the variational freeenergy will be chosen.
It has been shown that mini-mizing F is equivalent to minimizing the Kullback-Leibler divergence between P and Q (Mackay,2003).We next assume that the function Q(x; ?)
has thefactorial form :Q(x; ?)
=?iQ(xi; ?i).
(4)Simple substitution and transformation leads us tothe following variational free energy :F (?)
= ?
?2?ijwij x?ix?j??i(?
?xiQ(xi; ?i) logQ(xi; ?i)).
(5)With the usual method of Lagrange multipliers,we obtain the mean field equation :x?i =?xi xi exp(?xi?j wij x?j)?xi exp(?xi?j wij x?j) .
(6)This equation is solved by the iterative update rule :x?newi =?xi xi exp(?xi?j wij x?oldj)?xi exp(?xi?j wij x?oldj) .
(7)4 Extraction of Semantic Orientation ofWords with Spin ModelWe use the spin model to extract semantic orienta-tions of words.Each spin has a direction taking one of two values:up or down.
Two neighboring spins tend to have thesame direction from a energetic reason.
Regardingeach word as an electron and its semantic orientationas the spin of the electron, we construct a lexical net-work by connecting two words if, for example, oneword appears in the gloss of the other word.
Intu-ition behind this is that if a word is semantically ori-ented in one direction, then the words in its glosstend to be oriented in the same direction.Using the mean-field method developed in statis-tical mechanics, we determine the semantic orienta-tions on the network in a global manner.
The globaloptimization enables the incorporation of possiblynoisy resources such as glosses and corpora, whileexisting simple methods such as the shortest-pathmethod and the bootstrapping method cannot workin the presence of such noisy evidences.
Thosemethods depend on less-noisy data such as a the-saurus.4.1 Construction of Lexical NetworksWe construct a lexical network by linking two wordsif one word appears in the gloss of the other word.Each link belongs to one of two groups: the same-orientation links SL and the different-orientationlinks DL.
If at least one word precedes a nega-tion word (e.g., not) in the gloss of the other word,the link is a different-orientation link.
Otherwise thelinks is a same-orientation link.We next set weights W = (wij) to links :wij =??????
?1?d(i)d(j) (lij ?
SL)?
1?d(i)d(j) (lij ?
DL)0 otherwise, (8)where lij denotes the link between word i and wordj, and d(i) denotes the degree of word i, whichmeans the number of words linked with word i. Twowords without connections are regarded as beingconnected by a link of weight 0.
We call this net-work the gloss network (G).We construct another network, the gloss-thesaurus network (GT), by linking synonyms,antonyms and hypernyms, in addition to the theabove linked words.
Only antonym links are in DL.We enhance the gloss-thesaurus network withcooccurrence information extracted from corpus.
Asmentioned in Section 2, Hatzivassiloglou and McK-eown (1997) used conjunctive expressions in corpus.Following their method, we connect two adjectivesif the adjectives appear in a conjunctive form in thecorpus.
If the adjectives are connected by ?and?, thelink belongs to SL.
If they are connected by ?but?,the link belongs to DL.
We call this network thegloss-thesaurus-corpus network (GTC).1354.2 Extraction of OrientationsWe suppose that a small number of seed words aregiven.
In other words, we know beforehand the se-mantic orientations of those given words.
We incor-porate this small labeled dataset by modifying theprevious update rule.Instead of ?E(x,W ) in Equation (2), we use thefollowing function H(?, x,W ) :H(?, x,W ) = ?
?2?ijwijxixj + ?
?i?L(xi ?
ai)2,(9)where L is the set of seed words, ai is the orientationof seed word i, and ?
is a positive constant.
Thisexpression means that if xi (i ?
L) is different fromai, the state is penalized.Using function H , we obtain the new update rulefor xi (i ?
L) :x?newi =?xi xi exp(?xisoldi ?
?
(xi ?
ai)2)?xi exp(?xisoldi ?
?
(xi ?
ai)2) ,(10)where soldi =?j wij x?oldj .
x?oldi and x?newi are theaverages of xi respectively before and after update.What is discussed here was constructed with the ref-erence to work by Inoue and Carlucci (2001), inwhich they applied the spin glass model to imagerestoration.Initially, the averages of the seed words are setaccording to their given orientations.
The other av-erages are set to 0.When the difference in the value of the variationalfree energy is smaller than a threshold before andafter update, we regard computation converged.The words with high final average values are clas-sified as positive words.
The words with low finalaverage values are classified as negative words.4.3 Hyper-parameter PredictionThe performance of the proposed method largely de-pends on the value of hyper-parameter ?.
In order tomake the method more practical, we propose criteriafor determining its value.When a large labeled dataset is available, we canobtain a reliable pseudo leave-one-out error rate :1|L|?i?L[aix?
?i], (11)where [t] is 1 if t is negative, otherwise 0, and x?
?i iscalculated with the right-hand-side of Equation (6),where the penalty term ?
(x?i?ai)2 in Equation (10)is ignored.
We choose ?
that minimizes this value.However, when a large amount of labeled data isunavailable, the value of pseudo leave-one-out errorrate is not reliable.
In such cases, we use magnetiza-tion m for hyper-parameter prediction :m = 1N?ix?i.
(12)At a high temperature, spins are randomly ori-ented (paramagnetic phase, m ?
0).
At a lowtemperature, most of the spins have the same di-rection (ferromagnetic phase, m 6= 0).
It isknown that at some intermediate temperature, ferro-magnetic phase suddenly changes to paramagneticphase.
This phenomenon is called phase transition.Slightly before the phase transition, spins are locallypolarized; strongly connected spins have the samepolarity, but not in a global way.Intuitively, the state of the lexical network is lo-cally polarized.
Therefore, we calculate values ofm with several different values of ?
and select thevalue just before the phase transition.4.4 Discussion on the ModelIn our model, the semantic orientations of wordsare determined according to the averages values ofthe spins.
Despite the heuristic flavor of this deci-sion rule, it has a theoretical background related tomaximizer of posterior marginal (MPM) estimation,or ?finite-temperature decoding?
(Iba, 1999; Marro-quin, 1985).
In MPM, the average is the marginaldistribution over xi obtained from the distributionover x.
We should note that the finite-temperaturedecoding is quite different from annealing type algo-rithms or ?zero-temperature decoding?, which cor-respond to maximum a posteriori (MAP) estima-tion and also often used in natural language process-ing (Cowie et al, 1992).Since the model estimation has been reducedto simple update calculations, the proposed modelis similar to conventional spreading activation ap-proaches, which have been applied, for example, toword sense disambiguation (Veronis and Ide, 1990).Actually, the proposed model can be regarded as aspreading activation model with a specific update136rule, as long as we are dealing with 2-class model(2-Ising model).However, there are some advantages in our mod-elling.
The largest advantage is its theoretical back-ground.
We have an objective function and its ap-proximation method.
We thus have a measure ofgoodness in model estimation and can use anotherbetter approximation method, such as Bethe approx-imation (Tanaka et al, 2003).
The theory tellsus which update rule to use.
We also have a no-tion of magnetization, which can be used for hyper-parameter estimation.
We can use a plenty of knowl-edge, methods and algorithms developed in the fieldof statistical mechanics.
We can also extend ourmodel to a multiclass model (Q-Ising model).Another interesting point is the relation to maxi-mum entropy model (Berger et al, 1996), which ispopular in the natural language processing commu-nity.
Our model can be obtained by maximizing theentropy of the probability distribution Q(x) underconstraints regarding the energy function.5 ExperimentsWe used glosses, synonyms, antonyms and hyper-nyms of WordNet (Fellbaum, 1998) to construct anEnglish lexical network.
For part-of-speech tag-ging and lemmatization of glosses, we used Tree-Tagger (Schmid, 1994).
35 stopwords (quite fre-quent words such as ?be?
and ?have?)
are removedfrom the lexical network.
Negation words include33 words.
In addition to usual negation words suchas ?not?
and ?never?, we include words and phraseswhich mean negation in a general sense, such as?free from?
and ?lack of?.
The whole network con-sists of approximately 88,000 words.
We collected804 conjunctive expressions from Wall Street Jour-nal and Brown corpus as described in Section 4.2.The labeled dataset used as a gold standard isGeneral Inquirer lexicon (Stone et al, 1966) as in thework by Turney and Littman (2003).
We extractedthe words tagged with ?Positiv?
or ?Negativ?, andreduced multiple-entry words to single entries.
As aresult, we obtained 3596 words (1616 positive wordsand 1980 negative words) 1.
In the computation of1Although we preprocessed in the same way as Turney andLittman, there is a slight difference between their dataset andour dataset.
However, we believe this difference is insignificant.Table 1: Classification accuracy (%) with variousnetworks and four different sets of seed words.
Inthe parentheses, the predicted value of ?
is written.For cv, no value is written for ?, since 10 differentvalues are obtained.seeds GTC GT Gcv 90.8 (?)
90.9 (?)
86.9 (?
)14 81.9 (1.0) 80.2 (1.0) 76.2 (1.0)4 73.8 (0.9) 73.7 (1.0) 65.2 (0.9)2 74.6 (1.0) 61.8 (1.0) 65.7 (1.0)accuracy, seed words are eliminated from these 3596words.We conducted experiments with different valuesof ?
from 0.1 to 2.0, with the interval 0.1, and pre-dicted the best value as explained in Section 4.3.
Thethreshold of the magnetization for hyper-parameterestimation is set to 1.0 ?
10?5.
That is, the pre-dicted optimal value of ?
is the largest ?
whosecorresponding magnetization does not exceeds thethreshold value.We performed 10-fold cross validation as well asexperiments with fixed seed words.
The fixed seedwords are the ones used by Turney and Littman: 14seed words {good, nice, excellent, positive, fortu-nate, correct, superior, bad, nasty, poor, negative,unfortunate, wrong, inferior}; 4 seed words {good,superior, bad, inferior}; 2 seed words {good, bad}.5.1 Classification AccuracyTable 1 shows the accuracy values of semantic ori-entation classification for four different sets of seedwords and various networks.
In the table, cv corre-sponds to the result of 10-fold cross validation, inwhich case we use the pseudo leave-one-out errorfor hyper-parameter estimation, while in other caseswe use magnetization.In most cases, the synonyms and the cooccurrenceinformation from corpus improve accuracy.
Theonly exception is the case of 2 seed words, in whichG performs better than GT.
One possible reason ofthis inversion is that the computation is trapped in alocal optimum, since a small number of seed wordsleave a relatively large degree of freedom in the so-lution space, resulting in more local optimal points.We compare our results with Turney and137Table 2: Actual best classification accuracy (%)with various networks and four different sets of seedwords.
In the parenthesis, the actual best value of ?is written, except for cv.seeds GTC GT Gcv 91.5 (?)
91.5 (?)
87.0 (?
)14 81.9 (1.0) 80.2 (1.0) 76.2 (1.0)4 74.4 (0.6) 74.4 (0.6) 65.3 (0.8)2 75.2 (0.8) 61.9 (0.8) 67.5 (0.5)Littman?s results.
With 14 seed words, they achieved61.26% for a small corpus (approx.
1?
107 words),76.06% for a medium-sized corpus (approx.
2?109words), 82.84% for a large corpus (approx.
1?1011words).Without a corpus nor a thesaurus (but with glossesin a dictionary), we obtained accuracy that is compa-rable to Turney and Littman?s with a medium-sizedcorpus.
When we enhance the lexical network withcorpus and thesaurus, our result is comparable toTurney and Littman?s with a large corpus.5.2 Prediction of ?We examine how accurately our prediction methodfor ?
works by comparing Table 1 above and Ta-ble 2 below.
Our method predicts good ?
quite wellespecially for 14 seed words.
For small numbers ofseed words, our method using magnetization tendsto predict a little larger value.We also display the figure of magnetization andaccuracy in Figure 1.
We can see that the sharpchange of magnetization occurs at around ?
= 1.0(phrase transition).
At almost the same point, theclassification accuracy reaches the peak.5.3 Precision for the Words with HighConfidenceWe next evaluate the proposed method in terms ofprecision for the words that are classified with highconfidence.
We regard the absolute value of eachaverage as a confidence measure and evaluate the topwords with the highest absolute values of averages.The result of this experiment is shown in Figure 2,for 14 seed words as an example.
The top 1000words achieved more than 92% accuracy.
This re-sult shows that the absolute value of each average-0.100.10.20.30.40.50.60.70.80.90  1  2  3  4  5  6  7  8  9  104045505560657075808590MagnetizationAccuracyBetamagnetizationaccuracyFigure 1: Example of magnetization and classifica-tion accuracy(14 seed words).75808590951000  500  1000  1500  2000  2500  3000  3500  4000PrecisionNumber of selected wordsGTCGTGFigure 2: Precision (%) with 14 seed words.138Table 3: Precision (%) for selected adjectives.Comparison between the proposed method and theshortest-path method.seeds proposed short.
path14 73.4 (1.0) 70.84 71.0 (1.0) 64.92 68.2 (1.0) 66.0Table 4: Precision (%) for adjectives.
Comparisonbetween the proposed method and the bootstrappingmethod.seeds proposed bootstrap14 83.6 (0.8) 72.84 82.3 (0.9) 73.22 83.5 (0.7) 71.1can work as a confidence measure of classification.5.4 Comparison with other methodsIn order to further investigate the model, we conductexperiments in restricted settings.We first construct a lexical network using onlysynonyms.
We compare the spin model withthe shortest-path method proposed by Kamps etal.
(2004) on this network, because the shortest-path method cannot incorporate negative links ofantonyms.
We also restrict the test data to 697 ad-jectives, which is the number of examples that theshortest-path method can assign a non-zero orien-tation value.
Since the shortest-path method is de-signed for 2 seed words, the method is extendedto use the average shortest-path lengths for 4 seedwords and 14 seed words.
Table 3 shows the re-sult.
Since the only difference is their algorithms,we can conclude that the global optimization of thespin model works well for the semantic orientationextraction.We next compare the proposed method with asimple bootstrapping method proposed by Hu andLiu (2004).
We construct a lexical network usingsynonyms and antonyms.
We restrict the test datato 1470 adjectives for comparison of methods.
Theresult in Table 4 also shows that the global optimiza-tion of the spin model works well for the semanticorientation extraction.We also tested the shortest path method and thebootstrapping method on GTC and GT, and obtainedlow accuracies as expected in the discussion in Sec-tion 4.5.5 Error AnalysisWe investigated a number of errors and concludedthat there were mainly three types of errors.One is the ambiguity of word senses.
For exam-ple, one of the glosses of ?costly?is ?entailing greatloss or sacrifice?.
The word ?great?
here means?large?, although it usually means ?outstanding?
andis positively oriented.Another is lack of structural information.
For ex-ample, ?arrogance?
means ?overbearing pride evi-denced by a superior manner toward the weak?.
Al-though ?arrogance?
is mistakingly predicted as posi-tive due to the word ?superior?, what is superior hereis ?manner?.The last one is idiomatic expressions.
For exam-ple, although ?brag?
means ?show off?, neither of?show?
and ?off?
has the negative orientation.
Id-iomatic expressions often does not inherit the se-mantic orientation from or to the words in the gloss.The current model cannot deal with these types oferrors.
We leave their solutions as future work.6 Conclusion and Future WorkWe proposed a method for extracting semantic ori-entations of words.
In the proposed method, we re-garded semantic orientations as spins of electrons,and used the mean field approximation to computethe approximate probability function of the systeminstead of the intractable actual probability function.We succeeded in extracting semantic orientationswith high accuracy, even when only a small numberof seed words are available.There are a number of directions for future work.One is the incorporation of syntactic information.Since the importance of each word consisting a glossdepends on its syntactic role.
syntactic informationin glosses should be useful for classification.Another is active learning.
To decrease theamount of manual tagging for seed words, an activelearning scheme is desired, in which a small numberof good seed words are automatically selected.Although our model can easily extended to a139multi-state model, the effectiveness of using such amulti-state model has not been shown yet.Our model uses only the tendency of having thesame orientation.
Therefore we can extract seman-tic orientations of new words that are not listed ina dictionary.
The validation of such extension willwiden the possibility of application of our method.Larger corpora such as web data will improve per-formance.
The combination of our method and themethod by Turney and Littman (2003) is promising.Finally, we believe that the proposed model is ap-plicable to other tasks in computational linguistics.ReferencesAdam L. Berger, Stephen Della Pietra, and VincentJ.
Della Pietra.
1996.
A maximum entropy approachto natural language processing.
Computational Lin-guistics, 22(1):39?71.David Chandler.
1987.
Introduction to Modern Statisti-cal Mechanics.
Oxford University Press.Jim Cowie, Joe Guthrie, and Louise Guthrie.
1992.
Lexi-cal disambiguation using simulated annealing.
In Pro-ceedings of the 14th conference on Computational lin-guistics, volume 1, pages 359?365.Christiane Fellbaum.
1998.
WordNet: An ElectronicLexical Database, Language, Speech, and Communi-cation Series.
MIT Press.Stuart Geman and Donald Geman.
1984.
Stochastic re-laxation, gibbs distributions, and the bayesian restora-tion of images.
IEEE Transactions on Pattern Analysisand Machine Intelligence, 6:721?741.Vasileios Hatzivassiloglou and Kathleen R. McKeown.1997.
Predicting the semantic orientation of adjec-tives.
In Proceedings of the Thirty-Fifth Annual Meet-ing of the Association for Computational Linguisticsand the Eighth Conference of the European Chapter ofthe Association for Computational Linguistics, pages174?181.Minqing Hu and Bing Liu.
2004.
Mining and summa-rizing customer reviews.
In Proceedings of the 2004ACM SIGKDD international conference on Knowl-edge discovery and data mining (KDD-2004), pages168?177.Yukito Iba.
1999.
The nishimori line and bayesian statis-tics.
Journal of Physics A: Mathematical and General,pages 3875?3888.Junichi Inoue and Domenico M. Carlucci.
2001.
Imagerestoration using the q-ising spin glass.
Physical Re-view E, 64:036121?1 ?
036121?18.Jaap Kamps, Maarten Marx, Robert J. Mokken, andMaarten de Rijke.
2004.
Using wordnet to mea-sure semantic orientation of adjectives.
In Proceed-ings of the 4th International Conference on LanguageResources and Evaluation (LREC 2004), volume IV,pages 1115?1118.Nozomi Kobayashi, Takashi Inui, and Kentaro Inui.2001.
Dictionary-based acquisition of the lexicalknowledge for p/n analysis (in Japanese).
In Pro-ceedings of Japanese Society for Artificial Intelligence,SLUD-33, pages 45?50.David J. C. Mackay.
2003.
Information Theory, Infer-ence and Learning Algorithms.
Cambridge UniversityPress.Jose L. Marroquin.
1985.
Optimal bayesian estima-tors for image segmentation and surface reconstruc-tion.
Technical Report A.I.
Memo 839, MassachusettsInstitute of Technology.Ellen Riloff, Janyce Wiebe, and Theresa Wilson.
2003.Learning subjective nouns using extraction patternbootstrapping.
In Proceedings of the Seventh Con-ference on Natural Language Learning (CoNLL-03),pages 25?32.Helmut Schmid.
1994.
Probabilistic part-of-speech tag-ging using decision trees.
In Proceedings of Interna-tional Conference on New Methods in Language Pro-cessing, pages 44?49.Philip J.
Stone, Dexter C. Dunphy, Marshall S. Smith,and Daniel M. Ogilvie.
1966.
The General Inquirer:A Computer Approach to Content Analysis.
The MITPress.Kazuyuki Tanaka, Junichi Inoue, and Mike Titterington.2003.
Probabilistic image processing by means of thebethe approximation for the q-ising model.
Journalof Physics A: Mathematical and General, 36:11023?11035.Peter D. Turney and Michael L. Littman.
2003.
Measur-ing praise and criticism: Inference of semantic orien-tation from association.
ACM Transactions on Infor-mation Systems, 21(4):315?346.Jean Veronis and Nancy M. Ide.
1990.
Word sense dis-ambiguation with very large neural networks extractedfrom machine readable dictionaries.
In Proceedingsof the 13th Conference on Computational Linguistics,volume 2, pages 389?394.Janyce M. Wiebe.
2000.
Learning subjective adjec-tives from corpora.
In Proceedings of the 17th Na-tional Conference on Artificial Intelligence (AAAI-2000), pages 735?740.140
