Proceedings of the COLING/ACL 2006 Main Conference Poster Sessions, pages 337?344,Sydney, July 2006. c?2006 Association for Computational LinguisticsLocal constraints on sentence markers and focus in SomaliKatherine HargreavesSchool of InformaticsUniversity of ManchesterManchester M60 1QD, UKkat@evilution.co.ukAllan RamsaySchool of InformaticsUniversity of ManchesterManchester M60 1QD, UKAllan.Ramsay@manchester.ac.ukAbstractWe present a computationally tractable ac-count of the interactions between sentencemarkers and focus marking in Somali.
So-mali, as a Cushitic language, has a ba-sic pattern wherein a small ?core?
clauseis preceded, and in some cases followedby, a set of ?topics?, which provide scene-seting information against which the coreis interpreted.
Some topics appear to carrya ?focus marker?, indicating that they areparticularly salient.
We will outline a com-putationally tractable grammar for Somaliin which focus marking emerges naturallyfrom a consideration of the use of a rangeof sentence markers.1 IntroductionThis paper presents a computationally tractableaccount of a number of phenomena in Somali.
So-mali displays a number of properties which dis-tinguish it from most languages for which com-putational treatments are available, and which arepotentially problematic.
We therefore start witha brief introduction to the major properties of thelanguage, together with a description of how wecover the key phenomena within a general purposeNLP framework.2 MorphologySomali has a fairly standard set of inflectional af-fixes for nouns and verbs, as outlined below.
Inaddition, there are a substantial set of ?spellingrules?
which insert and delete graphemes at theboundaries between roots and suffixes (and cli-tics).
There is not that much to be said about thespelling rules ?
Fig.
1 shows the format of a typi-cal rule, which we compile into an FST to be usedduring the process of lexical lookup.
[q/x/c/h,?,v0] ==> [+, k, v0]Figure 1: Insert ?k?
and a morpheme boundary be-tween ?q/x/c/h?
and a following vowelThe rule in Fig.
1 would, for instance, saythat the surface form ?saca?
might correspond tothe underlying form ?sac+ka?, with a morphemeboundary and a ?k?
inserted after the ?c?.
Theserules, of which we currently employ about 30, canbe efficiently implemented using the standard ma-chinery of cascaded FSTs (Koskiennemi, 1985)interwoven with the general lookup process.2.1 Noun morphologyIn general, a noun consists of a root and a singleaffix, which provides a combination of gender andnumber marking.
The main complication is thatthere are several declension classes, with specificsingular and plural suffixes for groups of classes(e.g.
the plural ending for declensions 1 and 3 is?o?)
(Saeed, 1999; Lecarme, 2002).
Some pluralforms involve reduplication of some part of theword ending, e.g.
declension 4 nouns form theirplural by adding ?aC?
where ?C?
is the final conso-nant of the root, but this can easily be handled byusing spelling rules.2.2 Verb morphologyVerb morphology is slightly more complex.Again, a typical verb consists of a root plus a num-ber of affixes.
These include derivational affixes(Somali includes a passivising form which canonly be applied to verbs which have a ?causative?argument, and a causative affix which adds such337an argument) and a set of inflectional affixes whichmark aspect, tense and agreement (Andrzejewski,1968).The forms of the tense and agreement mark-ers vary depending on whether the clause con-taining the verb is the main clause or is a sub-ordinate clause (either a relative clause or a sen-tential complement), marked by ?main and onwhether it is in a context where the subject is re-quired to be a zero item, marked by?fullForm.Note that the situation here is fairly complicated:-fullForm versions are required in situationswhere the subject is forced by local syntactic con-straints to be a zero.
There are also situationswhere the subject is omitted for discourse rea-sons, and here the +fullForm version is used((Lecarme, 1995) uses the terms ?restrictive?
and?extensive?
for -fullForm and +fullForm re-spectively).2.3 CliticisationThere are a number of Somali morphemes whichcan appear either bound to an adjacent word (usu-ally the preceding word) or as free-standing lexi-cal items.
The sentence marker ?waa?
and the pro-noun ?uu?, for instance, combine to produce theform ?wuu?
when they are adjacent to one another.In several cases, there are quite dramatic morpho-phonemic alterations at the boundary, so that it isextremely important to ensure that the processes ofapplying spelling rules and inspecting the lexiconare appropriately interwoven.
The definite articles,in particular, require considerable care.
There area number of forms of the definite article, as inFig.
2:masculine femininethe-acc ka tathe-nom ku tu?remote?
(nom or acc) kii tiithis-acc tan kanthis-nom tanu kanuthat-acc taas kaasthat-nom taasu kaasuFigure 2: Definite articlesWe deal with this by assuming that determinershave the form gender-root-case, where the gendermarkers are ?k-?
(masculine) and ?t-?
(feminine),and the case markers are ?-?
(accusative) and ?-u?
(nominative), with spelling rules that collapse?kau?
to ?ku?
and ?kiiu?
to ?kii?.The definite articles, however, cliticise ontothe preceding word, with consequential spellingchanges.
It is again important to ensure that thespelling changes are applied at the right time toensure that we can recognise ?barahu?
as ?bare?plus ?k+a+u?, with appropriate changes to the ?e?at the end of the root ?bare?
and the ?k?
at the startof the determiner ?ku?.3 Syntax3.1 FrameworkThe syntactic description is couched in a frame-work which provides a skeletal version of theHPSG schemas, supplemented by a variant on thewell-known distinction between internal and ex-ternal syntax.3.1.1 Lexical heads and their argumentsWe assume that lexical items specify a (pos-sibly empty) list of required arguments, togetherwith a description of whether these arguments arenormally expected to appear to the left or right.The direction in which the arguments are expectedis language dependent, as shown in Fig.
3.
Notethat the description of where the arguments are tobe found specifies the order of combination, verymuch like categorial descriptions.
The descrip-tion of an English transitive verb, for instance,is like the categorial description (S\NP)/NP,which corresponds to an SVO surface order.English transitive verb(SOV){syn(nonfoot(head(cat(xbar(+v, -n)))),subcat(args([????????NP?
(obj), ?????????NP?
(subj)])))}Persian transitive verb (SOV){syn(nonfoot(head(cat(xbar(+v, -n)))),subcat(args([????????NP?
(obj), ?????????NP?
(subj)])))}Arabic transitive verb (VSO){syn(nonfoot(head(cat(xbar(+v, -n)))),subcat(args([?????????NP?
(subj), ????????NP?
(obj)])))}Figure 3: Subcat frames3.1.2 Adjuncts and modifiersItems such as adjectival phrases, PPs and rela-tive clauses which add information about some tar-get item combine via a principle captured in Fig.
4R =?
{syntax(target=?
?T , result=R)}, TR =?
T, {syntax(target=?
?T , result=R)}Figure 4: Modifiers and targets338Then if we said that an English adjec-tive was of type {syntax(target=???
?NN?,result="NN") the first rule in Fig.
4 wouldallow it to combine with an NN to its rightto form an NN, and likewise saying that aPP was of type {syntax(target=???
?VP?,result="VP")would allow it to combine witha VP to its left to form a VP.3.1.3 Non-canonical orderThe patterns and principles outlined in ?3.1.1and ?3.1.2 specify the unmarked orders for the rel-evant phenomena.
Other orders are often permit-ted, sometimes for discourse reasons (particularlyin free word order languages such as Arabic andPersian) and sometimes for structural reasons (e.g.the left shifting of the WH-pronoun in ?I distrustthe man whoi she wants to marry ?i.?
).We take the view that rather than introducingexplicit rules to allow for various non-canonicalorders, we will simply allow all possible or-ders subject to the application of penalties.
Thisapproach has affinities with optimality theory(Grimshaw, 1997), save that our penalties aretreated cumulatively rather than being appliedonce and for all to competing local analyses.
Thealgorithm we use for parsing withing this frame-work is very similar to the algorithm described by(Foth et al, 2005), though we use the scores asso-ciated with partial analyses to guide the search fora complete analysis, whereas Foth et al use themto choose a complete but flawed analysis to be re-constructed.
We have described the application ofthis algorithm to a variety of languages (includ-ing Greek, Spanish, German, Persian and Arabic)elsewhere (Ramsay and Scha?ler, 1997; Ramsayand Mansour, 2003; Ramsay et al, 2005): spaceprecludes a detailed discussion here.3.1.4 Internal:external syntaxIn certain circumstances a phrase that looks asthough it belongs to category A is used in circum-stances where you would normally expect an itembelonging to category B.
The phrase ?eating theowl?
in ?He concluded the banquet by eating theowl.
?, for instance, has the internal structure of aVP, but is being used as the complement of thepreposition ?by?
where you would normally expectan NP.
This notion has been around for too longfor its origin to be easily traced, but has been usedmore recently in (Malouf, 1996)?s addition of ?lex-ical rules?
to HPSG for treating English nominalgerunds, and in (Sadler, 1996)?s description of thepossibility of allowing a single c-structure to mapto multiple f-structures in LFG.
We write ?equiva-lence rules?
of the kind given in Fig.
5 to deal withsuch phenomena:{syn(head(cat(xbar(-v, +n))),+specified)}<==>{syn(head(cat(xbar(+v, -n)),vform(participle,present)),subcat(args([{struct(B)}])))}Figure 5: External and internal views of Englishverbal gerundThe rule in Fig.
5 says that if you have apresent participle VP (something of type +v, -nwhich has vform participle, present andwhich needs one more argument) then you can usewhereever you need an NP (type -v, +n with aspecifier +specified).3.2 Somali syntaxAs noted earlier, the framework outlined in ?3.1has been used to provide accounts of a number oflanguages.
In the current section we will sketchsome of the major properties of Somali syntax andshow how they can be captured within this frame-work.3.2.1 The ?core & topic?
structureEvery Somali sentence has a ?core?, or ?verbalcomplex?
(Svolacchia et al, 1995), consisting ofthe verb and a number of pronominal elements.The structure of the core can be fairly easily de-scribed by the rule in Fig.
6:CORE ==> SUBJ,(OBJ1),(ADP*),(OBJ2),VERBFigure 6: The structure of the coreThe situation is not, in fact, quite as simple assuggested by Fig.
6.
The major complications areoutlined below:1. the third person object pronouns are never ac-tually written, so that in many cases what yousee has the form SUBJ, VERB, as in (1a),rather than the full form given in (1b) (we willwrite ?(him)?
to denote zero pronouns):(1) a. uu sugayhe (him) waited forb.
uu i sugayhe me waited for2.
The second complication arises with ditran-sitive verbs.
The distinction between OBJ1339and OBJ2 in Fig.
6 simply corresponds tothe surface order of the two pronouns, andhas very little connection with their semanticroles (Saeed, 1999).
Thus each of the sen-tences in (2a) could mean ?He gave me toyou?, and neither of the sentences in (2b) isgrammatical.
(2) a. i. uu i kaa siiyeyhe me1 you2 gaveii.
uu ku kay siiyeyhe you1 me2 gaveb.
i. uu kay ku siiyeyhe me2 you1 gaveii.
uu kaa i siiyeyhe you2 me1 gave3.
The next problem is that subject pronouns arealso sometimes omitted.
There are two cases:(i) in certain circumstances, the subject pro-noun must be omitted, and when this happensthe verb takes a form which indicates thatthis has happened.
(ii) in situations where thesubject is normally present, and hence wherethe verb has its standard form, the subjectmay nonetheless be omitted (usually for dis-course reasons) (Gebert, 1986).4.
There are a small number of preposition-likeitems, referred to as adpositions in Fig.
6,which can occur between the two objects, andwhich cliticise onto the preceding pronoun ifthere is one.
The major complication hereis that just like prepositions, these require anNP as a complement: but unlike prepositions,they can combine either with the precedingpronoun or the following one, or with a zeropronoun.
Thus a core like (3) has two analy-ses, as shown in Fig.
7:(3)uu ika sugaauu i ka sugaahe me at (it) waits-forsug++++aauuagentiobjectkamod0sug++++aauuagent0objectkamodiFigure 7: Analyses for (3) (0.010 secs)The second analysis in Fig.
7, ?he waits forit at me?, doesn?t make much sense, but it isnonetheless perfectly grammatical.5.
Finally, there are a number of other minor el-ements that can occur in the core.
We do nothave space to discuss these here, and theirpresence or absence does not affect the dis-cussion in ?3.3 and ?3.4.To capture these phenomena within the frame-work outlined in ?3.1, we assign Somali transitiveverbs a subcat frame like the one in Fig.
8 (the pat-terns for intransitive and ditransitive verbs differfrom this in the obvious ways).
{syn(nonfoot(head(cat(xbar(+v, -n)))),subcat(args([????????????????NP?
(obj, +clitic),?????????????????NP?
(subj, +clitic)])),foot(...))}Figure 8: Somali transitive verbFig.
8 says that the core of a Somali sentenceis a clause of the form S-O-V, where S and O areboth clitic pronouns.The canonical position of S and O is as given.They can appear further to the left than that to al-low for clitic modifiers: exactly where they cango is specified by requiring the clitic modifiers toappear adjacent to the verb (subject to further lo-cal constraints on their positions relative to oneanother), and requiring S and O to fall inside thescope of the ?sentence markers?.3.3 Sentence markersA core by itself cannot be uttered as a free standingsentence.
At the very least, it has to include a ?sen-tence marker?.
The simplest of these is the word?waa?.
(4), for instance, is a well-formed sentence,with the structure shown in Fig.
9.
(4)wuu sugaa.waa uu sugaa.s-marker he (it) waits-forsug++ay++aawaacomp(waa)uuagent0objectFigure 9: Analysis for (4) (0.01 secs)Note that the pronoun ?uu?
cliticises onto theend of the sentence marker ?waa?, producing thewritten form ?wuu?, as discussed above.In general, however, the situation is not quiteas simple as in (4).
Most sentences contain NPsother than the pronouns in the core.
The first suchexamples involve introducing ?topics?
in front ofthe sentence marker.Topics are normally definite NPs or PPs whichset the scene for the interpretation of the core.
Atypical example is given in (5):340(5)ninka wuu sugaa.nim ka waa uu sugaa.man the S-marker he (him) waits-for0baabuur+predicationk+adet0topicwaacomp(waa)somaliTopicwax+k+adetFigure 10: Sentence with topicThe analysis in Fig.
10 was obtained by exploit-ing an equivalence rule which says that an itemwhich has the internal properties of a -cliticNP can be used as a ?topic?, which we take to be asentence modifier.Topics set the scene for the interpretation ofthe core by providing potential referents for thepronominal elements in the core.
There are novery strong syntactic links between the topics andthe clitic pronouns ?
if a topic is +nom then it willprovide the referent for the subject, but in some(focused) contexts subject referents are not explic-itly marked as +nom.
The situation is rather likesaying ?You know that man we were talking about,and you know the girl we were talking about.
Well,she?s waiting for him.
?.topical(ref(?B(NIM(B))))&claim(?C : {aspect(now, simple,C)}?
(C, agent, ref(?Dfemale(D)))&?
(C, object, ref(?Fthing(F )))&SUG(C))Figure 11: Interpretation of (5)The logical form given in Fig.
11, whichwas constructed using using standard compo-sitional techniques (Dowty et al, 1981), saysthe speaker is marking some known manref(?B(NIM(B))) as being topical, and is thenmaking a claim about the existence of a waitingevent SUG(C) involving some known female asits agent and some other known entity as its object.Note that we include discourse related information?
that the speaker is first marking something as be-ing topical and then making a claim ?
in the log-ical form.
This seems like a sensible thing to do,since this information is encoded by lexical andsyntactic choices in the same way as the proposi-tional content itself, and hence it makes sense toextract it compositionally at the same time and inthe same way as we do the propositional content.Somali provides a number of such sentencemarkers.
?in?
is used for marking sentential com-plements, in much the same way as the Englishcomplementiser ?that?
is used to mark the startof a sentential clause in ?I know that she likestrawberry icecream.?
(Lecarme, 1984).
Thereis, however, an alternative form for main clauses,where one of the topics is marked as being par-ticularly interesting by the sentence markers ?baa?or ?ayaa?
(?baa?
and ?ayaa?
seem to be virtuallyequivalent, with the choice between them beingdriven by stylistic/phonological considerations):(6) baraha baa ninka sugaa.?baa?/?ayaa?
and ?waa?
are in complementarydistribution: every main clause has to have a sen-tence marker, which is nearly always one of thesetwo, and they never occur in the same sentence.The key difference is that ?baa?
marks the itemto its left as being particularly significant.
Ordi-nary topics introduce an item into the context, tobe picked up by one of the core pronouns, with-out marking any of them as being more prominentthan the others.
The item to the left of ?baa?
isindeed available as an anchor for a core pronoun,but it is also marked as being more important thanthe other topics.We deal with this by assuming that ?baa?
sub-categorises for an NP to its left, and then forms asentence marker looking to modify a sentence toits right.
The resulting parse tree for (6) is givenin Fig.
12, with the interpretation that arises fromthis tree in Fig.
13.sug++++aa0object0agentsomaliTopicnim+k+adetbaacomp(baa)somaliTopicfocusbare+k+adetFigure 12: Parse tree for (6)topical(ref(?C(NIM(C))))&focus(ref(?D(BARE(D))))&claim(?B : {aspect(now, simple, B)}?
(B, object, ref(?Ething(E)))&?
(B, agent, ref(?Gspeaker(G)))&SUG(B))Figure 13: Interpretation for (6)Treating ?baa?
as an item which looks first to itsleft for an NP and then acts as a sentence modi-fier gives us a fairly simple analysis of (6), ensur-ing that when we have ?baa?
we do indeed have a341focused item, and also accounting for its comple-mentary distribution with ?waa?.
The fact that thecombination of ?baa?
and the focussed NP can beeither preceded or followed by other topics meansthat we have to put very careful constraints onwhere it can appear.
This is made more complexby the fact that the subject of the core sentence cancliticise onto ?baa?, despite the fact that there maybe a subsequent topic, as in (7).
(7) baraha buu ninku sugaa.sug++++aa0objectuuagentbaacomp(baa)somaliTopicbare+k+adetsomaliTopicnim+k+adeticaseMarkerFigure 14: Parse tree for (7)To ensure that we get the right analyses, wehave to put the following constraints on ?baa?
and?waa?:1.
if the subject of the core is realised as an ex-plicit short pronoun, it cliticises onto the sen-tence marker2.
the sentence marker attaches to the sentencebefore any topics (note that this is a con-straint on the order of combination, not on theleft?right surface order: the tree in Fig.
14shows that ?baraha baa?
was attached tothe tree before ?ninka?, despite the fact that?ninka?
is nearer to the core than ?barahabaa?.Between them, these two ensure that we getunique analyses for sentences involving a sentencemarker and a number of topics, despite the widerange of potential surface orders.3.4 Relative clauses & ?waxa?-cleftsWe noted above that in general Somali clausescontain a sentence marker ?
generally one of?waa?, ?baa?
and ?ayaa?
for main clauses, or oneof ?in?
for subordinate clauses.
There are twolinked exceptions to this rule: relative clauses, and?waxa?-clefts.Somali does not possess distinct WH-pronouns(Saeed, 1999).
Instead, the clitic pronouns (in-cluding the zero third-person pronoun) can act asWH-markers.This is a bit awkward for any parsing algo-rithm which depends propagating the WH-markerup the parse tree until a complete clause has beenanalysed, and then using it to decide whether thatclause is a relative clause or not.
We do not wantto introduce two versions of each pronoun, onewith a WH-marker and the other without, and thenproduce alternative analyses for each.
Doing thiswould produce very large numbers of alternativeanalyses, since each core item is can be viewed ei-ther way, so that a simple clause involving a transi-tive clause would produce three analyses (one withthe subject WH-marked, one with the object WH-marked, and one with neither).We therefore leave the WH-marking on theclitic pronouns open until we have an analysis ofthe clause containing them.
If we need to con-sider using this clause in a context where a relativeclause is required, we inspect the clitic pronounsand decide which ones, if any are suitable for useas the pivot (i.e.
the WH-pronoun which links tothe modified analysis).Relative clauses do not require a sentencemarker.
We thus get analyses of relative clausesas shown in Fig.
15 for (8).
(8)ninka wadaya wuu shaqeeyayaanim ka wadaya waa uu shaqeeyaaman the is-driving s-marker he is-workingThe man who is driving it: he?s workingshaqee++ay++aauuagentwaacomp(waa)somaliTopicnim+k+adetheadlesswhmodwad++ay++a0object0agentFigure 15: Parse tree for (8)Note the reduced form of ?wadaya?
in (8).
Thekey here is that the subject of ?wadaya?
is the?pivot?
of the relative clause (the item linking theclause to the modified nominal).
When the subjectplays this role it is forced to be a zero item, and itis this that makes the verb take the -fullFormversions of the agreement and tense markers.Apart from the fact that you can?t tell whethera clitic pronoun is acting as a WH-marker or notuntil you see the context, and the requirement for342reduced form verbs with zero subjects, Somali rel-ative clauses are not all that different from relativeclauses in other languages.
They are, however, re-lated to a phenomenon which is rather less com-mon.We start by considering nominal sentences.
So-mali allows for scarenominal sentences consistingof just a pair of NPs.
This is a fairly commonphenomenon, where the overall semantic effect isas though there were an invisible copula linkingthem (see Arabic, malay, English ?small clauses?,.
.
.
).
We deal with this by assuming that any ac-cusative NP could be the predication in a zero sen-tence.
The only complication is that in ordinarySomali sentences the only items which follow thesentence marker are clitic pronouns and modifiers.For nominal sentences, the predicative NP, andnothing else, follows the sentence marker.For uniformity we assume that there is in fact azero subject, with the +nom NP that appears be-fore the sentence marker acting as a topic.
(9)waxu waa baabuurka.wax ka I waa baabuur kathing the +NOM s-marker truck theAny normal NP can appear as the topic of sucha sentence.
In particular, the noun ?wax?, whichmeans ?thing?, can appear in this position:0baabuur+predicationk+adet0topicwaacomp(waa)somaliTopicwaxk+adeticaseMarkerFigure 16: ?the thing: it?s the truck?The analysis in Fig.
16 corresponds to an inter-pretation something like ?The thing we were talk-ing about, well it?s the truck?.
Note the analysis of?waxu?
here as the noun ?wax?
followed by the def-inite article ?ka?
and the nominative case marker?I?.There is no reason why the topic in such a sen-tence should not contain a relative clause.
In (10),for instance, the topic is ?waxaan doonayo I?
?
?thething which I want?.
(10)waxaan doonayaa waa lacag.wax ka aan doonayo I waa lacagthing the I want +NOM s-marker moneyNote that ?doonayaa?
here is being read asthe {+fullForm,-main} version of the verb?doonayo?
followed by a cliticised nominativemarker ?I?.
The choice of +fullForm this timearises because the subject pronoun is not WH-marked, which means that it is not forced to bezero: remember that -fullForm is used if thelocal constraints require the subject to be zero, notjust if it happens to be omitted for discourse orstylistic reasons.
Then in the analysis in Fig.
17?wax ka aan doonayo I?
is a +nom NP functioningas the topic of a nominal sentence.0lacag+predication0topicwaacomp(waa)somaliTopicwaxk+adetheadlesswhmoddoon++ay++o0patientaanagentIcaseMarkerFigure 17: (10) the thing I want: it?s some moneySo far so simple.
?waxa?, however, also takespart in a rather more complex construction.In general, the items that occur as topics in So-mali are definite NPs (Saeed, 1984).
In all theexamples above, we have used definite NPs inthe topic positions, because that it is what nor-mally happens.
If you want to introduce some-thing into the conversation it is more usual to use a?waxa-cleft?, or ?heralding sentence?
(Andrzejew-ski, 1975).The typical surface form of such a constructionis shown in (11):(11)waxaan doonayaa lacag.waxa aan doonayaa lacagwaxa I want moneyThe key things to note about (11) are as follow:?
There is no sentence marker.
Or at anyrate, the standard sentence markers ?waa?
and?baa?
are missing.?
The subject pronoun ?aan?
has cliticised ontothe word ?waxa?
to form ?waxaan?.?
The verb ?doonayaa?
is +fullForm?
The noun ?lacag?
follows the verb.
This isunusual, since generally NPs are used as top-ics preceding the core and, generally, the sen-tence marker.343These facts are very suggestive: (i) the lackof any other item acting as sentence marker sug-gests that ?waxa?
is playing this role.
(ii) the factthat ?uu?
has cliticised onto this item supports thisclaim, since subject pronouns typically cliticiseonto sentence markers rather than onto topic NPs.We therefore suggest that ?waxa?
here is func-tioning as sentence marker.
Like ?baa?, it focusesattention on some particular NP, but in this casethe NP follows the core.doon++ay++aa0patientaanagentwaxacomp(waxa)lacag+focusFigure 18: Parse tree for (11)Thus ?waxa?, as a sentence marker, is just like?baa?
except that ?baa?
expects its focused NP tofollow it immediately, with the core following that,whereas the order is reversed for ?waxa?
(Andrze-jewski, 1975).It seems extremely likely that ?waxa?-clefts arehistorically related to sentences like (10).
The sub-tle differences in the surface forms (presence orabsence of ?waa?
and form of the verb), however,lead to radically different analyses.
How simplenominal sentences with topics including ?waxa?and a relative clause turned into ?waxa?-clefts isbeyond the scope of this paper.
The key obser-vation here is that ?waxa?-clefts can be given astraightforward analysis by assuming that ?waxa?can function as a sentence-marker that focuses at-tention on a topical NP that ?follows?
the core ofthe sentence.4 ConclusionsWe have outlined a computational treatment ofSomali that runs right through from morphologyand morphographemics to logical forms.
The con-struction of logical forms is a fairly routine activ-ity, given that we have carried out this work withina framework that has already been used for a num-ber of other languages, and hence the machineryfor deriving logical forms from semantically an-notated parse trees is already available.
The mostnotable point about Somali semantics within thisframework is the inclusion of the basic illocution-ary force within the logic form, which allows us toalso treat topic and focus as discourse phenomenawithin the logical form.ReferencesB W Andrzejewski.
1968.
Inflectional characteristicsof the so-called weak verbs in Somali.
African Lan-guage Studies, 9:1?51.B W Andrzejewski.
1975.
The role of indicator par-ticles in Somali.
Afroasiatic Linguistics, 1(6):123?191.D R Dowty, R E Wall, and S Peters.
1981.
Introductionto Montague Semantics.
D. Reidel, Dordrecht.Killian Foth, Wolfgang Menzel, and Ingo Schro?der.2005.
Robust parsing with weighted constraints.Natural Language Engineering, 11(1):1?25.L Gebert.
1986.
Focus and word order in Somali.Afrikanistische Arbeitspapiere, 5:43?69.J Grimshaw.
1997.
Projection, heads, and optimality.Linguistic Inquiry, 28:373?422.K Koskiennemi.
1985.
A general two-level computa-tional model for word-form recognition and produc-tion.
In COLING-84, pages 178?181.J Lecarme.
1984.
On Somali complement construc-tions.
In T Labahn, editor, Proceedings of the Sec-ond International Congress of Somali Studies, 1:Linguistics and Literature, pages 37?54, Hamburg.Helmut Buske.J Lecarme.
1995.
L?accord restrictif en Somali.Langues Orientals Anciennes Philologie et Linguis-tique, 5-6:133?152.J Lecarme.
2002.
Gender polarity: Theoreti-cal aspects of Somali nominal morphology.
InP Boucher, editor, Many Morphologies, pages 109?141, Somerville.
Cascadilla Press.Robert Malouf.
1996.
A constructional approachto english verbal gerunds.
In Proceedings of theTwenty-second Annual Meeting of the Berkeley Lin-guistics Society, Marseille.A M Ramsay and H Mansour.
2003.
Arabic morpho-syntax for text-to-speech.
In Recent advance in nat-ural language processing, Sofia.A M Ramsay and R Scha?ler.
1997.
Case and word or-der in English and German.
In R Mitkov and N Ni-colo, editors, Recent Advances in Natural LanguageProcessing.
John Benjamin.A M Ramsay, Najmeh Ahmed, and Vahid Mirzaiean.2005.
Persian word-order is free but not (quite)discontinuous.
In 5th International Conference onRecent Advances in Natural Language Processing(RANLP-05), pages 412?418, Borovets, Bulgaria.Louisa Sadler.
1996.
New developments in LFG.
InKeith Brown and Jim Miller, editors, Concise En-cyclopedia of Syntactic Theories.
Elsevier Science,Oxford.J I Saeed.
1984.
The Syntax of Focus and Topic inSomali.
Helmut Buske Verlag, Hamburg.J I Saeed.
1999.
Somali.
John Benjamins PublishingCo, Amsterdam.M Svolacchia, L Mereu, and A. Puglielli.
1995.
As-pects of discourse configurationality in Somali.
InK E Kiss, editor, Discourse Configurational Lan-guages, pages 65?98, New York.
Oxford UniversityPress.344
