Proceedings of the COLING/ACL 2006 Main Conference Poster Sessions, pages 113?119,Sydney, July 2006. c?2006 Association for Computational LinguisticsAn Account for Compound Prepositions in FarsiZahra Abolhassani ChimeResearch Center of Samt, Tehran, 14636Ph.D in Linguisticszabolhassani@hotmail.comAbstractThere are some sorts of ?Preposition +Noun?
combinations in Farsi thatapparently a Prepositional Phrase almostbehaves as Compound Prepositions.
Asthey are not completely behaving ascompounds, it is doubtful that the processof word formation is a morphologicalone.The analysis put forward by this paperproposes ?incorporation?
by which an Nois incorporated to a Po constructing acompound preposition.
In this waytagging prepositions and parsing texts inNatural Language Processing is definedin a proper manner.1 IntroductionPrepositions have very versatile functions inFarsi and at the same time very important rolesin linguistics especially in computationallinguistics.
Most of the linguists consider them asmembers of a closed set in which nothing can beadded and behavior of which is completely static.However this paper tries to touch some aspectsof the fact that not only this set is not a closedone but also the behaviors of its members are sodynamic that we can call the set a productiveone.
Having considered this fact about veryfrequent Farsi prepositions, we can come up witha useful model for language recognition.There is a large discrepancy among linguistsin classifying Farsi prepositions that whether ornot there are compound prepositions and if thereare how the process of their word formationshould be accounted for as their characteristicsare not as straight forward as it is expected fromother compound categories.Some Iranian Linguists have ignored this classaltogether (Kh?nlari (1351), Shaf?ii (1363),B?teni (1356), Seyed vaf?ii (1353)).
Somebelieve they are not compound without puttingforward any explanation but some sort ofdescription.
(Hom?`yanfarox (1337), S?deghi(1357), Kalb?si (1371)).
Some believe they arecompounds without analyzing them (Mashkur(1346), Khatib Rahbar (1367), Gharib (1371),Meshkatodini (1366)) and still some havedefined them as prepositional phrases in one wayor another (Gholam Alizade (1371), Samiian(1983)).
However we can not find acomprehensive account for this class ofprepositions.
This paper tries to tackle theproblem from a different generative view as wellas a familiar way in LA-morph (Hausser: 2001)in parsing through which we can account for thediversity of their behavior and present them intree configuration.For reasons of computational efficiency andlinguistic concreteness (surfacecompositionality) the morphological componentof the SLIM theory of language take great care toassign no more than one category (syntacticreading) per word form surface wheneverpossible (Hausser, 2001: 244).
As Farsi does notenjoy the benefit of ?space?
in word recognitionwe have to resort to other clues to find out exactway of parsing and tagging.
This paper helps tomake sure about the category of one constructionof prepositions.2 Constructions of ?Preposition +Noun?
in FarsiFrom among all constructions in Farsi inwhich a preposition and a complement -generallyNPs - occurs, there are 4 classes which seem tohave different behaviors of that usual PPs(prepositional phrases) although they haveexactly similar structure to that of PPs; Theseclasses are as follows from which we just turnour attention to the first one:1. preposition + noun113e.g.
/bar/ + /as?s-e/on   +   basis/e/ an obligatory genitive ending,2.
noun + prepositione.g.
/ban?/ + /bar/based  +  on3.
preposition + time / location iteme.g.
/az/  + /pase/from + behind4.
time / location item + prepositione.g.
/po?t/ + /be/back  + toFrom the form point of view, we can simplyconsider preposition such as /bar/ ?on?, /az/?from/of?, /dar/ ?in?, /b?/ ?with?, /be/ ?to?
as (real)prepositions and what comes immediately after,as complement.However, a close observation reveals that notin all constructions consisting of a propositionand a noun the immediate noun can beconsidered as the noun head of the NPcomplement.
That is in some phrases the headpreposition is the compound preposition (apreposition and a noun) and then the noun afterthis construction is the complement:5.
/bar/ + /as?s-e/ + /mot?le?
?t/p      complement (n)?on + bases?
(of) researchesThe first question we try to answer is: Doesthe immediate noun after the preposition in (5),behave like other nouns as complements in PPs?To answer this question we should make surewhether the noun (complement) is asindependent as the other nouns in ?preposition +nouns?
making prepositional phrases, or it issomehow merged with the preposition producingcompound preposition.There are some structural tests to reveal this.
Ifthe noun here expands as other nouns in otherprepositional phrases we can conclude that therelated structure is a phrase, otherwise it is betterto think about them as compound prepositions.3 Extending the structure underdiscussion3.1 PremodifiersThe noun in prepositional phrases, can beextended in different ways while as the examplesbelow show, the related structures cannot:3.1.1 Demonstratives6.
bar (*in) as?s-e motale?
?te d?ne?mand?non (this) bases-of researches-of   scientistshav?-ye zamin garmtar?ode ?astclimate-of  earth   increased    has?Based of scientists?
researches the climate ofearth has increased?.6?)
bar (in) b?m-e   x?ne       kasi         r?h miraft.on (this) roof-of house someone (was) walking3.1.2 Superlatives7) bar (*jadid-tarin) as?s-e mot?le?at-e ?on the newest basis-of researches-of7?)
bar     (zib?-tarin)       b?m-e x?ne ?on the most beautiful roof-of house3.1.3 Exclamatories8) bar (*che!)
as?s-e      mot?le?
?t-e ?on    what!
a basis-of researches-of8?)
bar (che!)
b?m-e     x?ne ?on (what!)
a roof of house3.1.4 Quantifiers9) bar (*har)   as?s-e    mot?le?
?t-e ?on (every) basis-of    researches-of9?)
bar (har)    b?m-e     x?ne ?on (every) roof-of    house3.1.5 Question words10) bar (* che)  as?s-e   mot?le?
?t-e ?
?on    what  basis-of   researches10?)
bar (che)    b?m-e    x?ne-i ?
?on  what    roof-of   house3.1.6 Indefinite /yek/ ?one?11) bar (*yek) as?s-e    mot?le?
?t-e ?on    one   basis-of   researches11?)
bar (yek)   b?m-e    x?ne ?on (one) roof-of  house3.2 Post ModifiersNouns in prepositional phrases can expandwith post modifiers while nouns in our structurecannot.1143.2.1 Plural Markers12) az J?neb (*haye)     dowlat    va   mardomfrom side (s)-of   government and  nationmas?
?eli  matrah ?od.affairs    raised was?Some affairs were raised by government andnation.?12?)
as  ket?b (ha-ye) Ali estef?de kardam.from book (s)-of    Ali   used     I did.
?I used Ali?s books.
?3.2.2 Adjectives13) be elate (*pu?-e) b?randegi mad?res ta?til?od.to cause-of (vain-of) raining schools closedwere.
?schools were closed because of the vain reasonof raining.?13?)
bar b?m-e  (ziba-ye)     x?ne   qadam bogzar.on  roof-of (beautiful-of) house step    put.
?step on the beautiful roof of the house.
?3.2.3 Appositives14) bar as?s-e (*p?ye-ye) mot?le?
?t-ed?ne?mand?non basis-of (base-of) researches-ofscientists14?)
Ali az x?ne (mahale zendegi)-ash dur ?odeast.Ali from house (place-of living)-his far madeis.
?Ali has left his house-his place of living.
?3.3 ConclusionThe conclusion we extract out of theseobservations imposes some hypotheses:1) The noun in these kinds of structures has lostits independent status and the whole structure hasturned into a morphological compoundpreposition.2) The intended construction, is a special kind of?compound?
probably a syntactic compound, inwhich not all characteristics of morphologicalcompounds can be observed.To evaluate the first hypothesis, we shouldfirst identify the criteria of compound words inthese apparent phrases.4 Compound Words in FarsiFarshid vard (1351) believes it?s very difficultto identify and define the compound words inFarsi, because to gain the criteria of compoundwords, we should recognize compound formsfrom some other related and close structures,such as derived words and phrases.In a phrase, grammatical roles of the parts aredevoted as one to the head and the whole grouprather than the parts contributes to the role of thephrase.
Different ways of argumentation that canbe established for distinction between phrasesand compound words can be classified into 4classes: phonological, morphological, syntacticand semantic4.1 Phonological ArgumentationIt is assumed that prepositions in Farsi do notbear any accent.
This assumption comes from thefact that accent pattern in Farsi is in a any thatthe last or the farthest member of the group(phrase) takes the accent, except in markedstructures; and as prepositions do not occur at theend of the phrase (PPs are head-first, as the otherphrases in Farsi), they never take the accent.Eslami (1379: 28) states this fact as the ?Head-escape Principle?
:?In all cases, with expanding the head of asyntactic phrase, the accent of the phrase falls onthe farthest member.?15.
[[az] [?x?ne]]?from the house?16.
[[az] [x?ne-ye] [?rez?
]]?from the house-of Reza?The above observations, i.e.
: 1.
Accent on thelast modifier and 2.
Accent on the last syllabus ofthe word we conclude that the pattern of accentof the compound prepositions and prepositionalphrases are absolutely the same.In fact phonological reasons and criteria donot help of any kind.4.2 Morphological ArgumentationAll what was mentioned in previous section asexpanding possibility of PPs can also beconsidered as morphological criteria.4.3 Syntactic Argumentation4.3.1 TopicalizationIn topicalization ?one word?
can be topicalizedout of a phrase but not out of a compound word.11517.
Tamiz kardan-e ket?b-x?ne b?
Ali-st.cleaning-of       book-case with Ali is.
?cleaning book-case is with Ali?17?.
*ket?b tamiz kardan-e x?ne-ash b?
Ali-st.book cleaning-of      case-its   with Ali is.
?book, cleaning of its case is with Ali.
?In (17) (ket?b) is a part of a compound wordfrom which no part can be topicalized.Now let?s see what happens if we topicalize aword in our construction.18.
b?
Ali dar mored-e d?ne?g?h sohbat kardam.with Ali in case-of    university talk    I made.
?I talked with Ali about the university.?18?.
*mored-e d?ne?g?h, b?
Ali daresh sohbatkardam.case-of university, with Ali in-it talk Imade.
?About university, I talk about it with Ali.
?4.3.2 CoordinationTwo similar constituents can be coordinatedbut not parts of compound words:Noun out of PPs:19.
Hasan b?
[dust va do?man] mod?r?
mikonad.Hassan with [friend and enemy] bears?Hassan bears every one.
?Parts of prepositions:19?.
*be [dalil-e va ellat-e] sarm?
madrese-hata?til   ?od.to [reason-of and cause-of] cold schoolsclosed became.
?Because of cold schools were closed.
?4.4 Semantic ArgumentationClose semantic observation of theseconstructions reveal that the nouns in the abovementioned combinations are special kind ofnouns with particular semantic features.All the nouns are ?noun-referential?
and?abstract?./dar mored-e/,   /dar zamine-ye/,   /bar as?s-e/in case-of in field-of    on basis-of?about?
?about?
?on?/bar hasb-e/,      /az heis-e/,         /az lah?z-e/on according from aspect from aspect?according?
?according?
?point of view?/bar asar-e/on cause-of?because of?Another point to be mentioned is a delicatesemantic difference between the meaning ofthese nouns in other constructions and incombination with prepositions.
For example?dalil?
in following two sentences does not bearthe same semantic features.20.
man dalil-e harf-haye ?om?
r?
nemifahmam.I   reason-of talks     your  don?t understand.
?I do not understand the reason of your talks?.20?.
man be dalilt-e harf-haye ?om?
jalase r?
tarkkardam.I    to cause-of talks        your meeting  left.
?I left the meeting because of your talks?.?dalil?
in (20) has the semantic components of?argumentation, base, reason?, but in (20?
)?because, for?.Still another point worth mentioning is thatmost of the class members are synonymous inone way or another:?
dar mored-e, dar zamine-ye, dar xosus-e, darb?re-ye, dar b?b-e, dar atr?fe,?about??
bar as?s, bar paye-ye, bar hasb-e?on, on the basis??
az nazar-e, az heis-e, az lah?z-e, az jahat-e?according to??
be mojarad-e, be mahze?once??
be mojeb-e, be ellat-e, be dalil-e?because of?5 Concluding the DiscussionThrough same constituency tests, we showedthat these constituents do not obey the phrasalcharacteristics.
On the other hand, criteria ofdistinguishing compound words from syntacticphrases demonstrate that these forms are not somerged into each other in a way that they can becalled fixed morphological compounds.
It seemsthat they are in a transition phase from PPs tocompound Ps.
So although they are compoundswe should look for the process of word formation116to take place in some other places rather than themorphology, i.e.
in syntax.The argumentation proposed by the author is?incorporation?, which can account for thebehavior of such constructions in Farsi.6 IncorporationIncorporation brings out two changes insentence representation: 1.
It produces acompound category of word level (Xo).
2.
Itestablishes a syntactic relationship between twoplaces: the original position of the movedcategory (situ) and the target position.
Theformer is a morphological and the latter is asyntactic change.Baker (1988) considers Xo movements similarto those of XP, with all constraints andconditions applicable to both.
He also proposes?Government Transparency Corollary?
toaccount for the grammatical changes.
Movementautomatically changes the governance features ofa structure and the reason is that it creates agrammatical dependency between two distinctphrases.Leiber (1992: 14) says that there are somefacts that show to some extend there should besame interaction between syntax andmorphology.
Thus X parameters and relatedsystems are not merely applicable to syntax, butmorphology too.However incorporation of this kind in Farsi isabstract, i.e.
there is no overt movement.During incorporation process head Xo (hereNo) moves from its place towards P node andattaches to the P (dar) as it is shown in figure 1and 2.PPP'Po  NPN'No  NPdar mored-e  d?ne?g?hin case-of  universityFigure 1PPP'P              NPN'Po + No     No     NPdar  ti mord ti-e  d?ne?g?hFigure 2?dar+mored-e?
dominated by a P node has thefeatures of preposition and in this way ?-rolechange of ?mored?
is realized as preposition incombination with an original preposition.
Thissyntactic process gives the following results:1.
A noun head (No) dominated by NP as acomplement of a pp, ?-moves and incorporatesto the preposition head (Po).2.
Moved No is governed and dominated by apreposition node.3.
The output of the combination of the No and Pois a compound Po.4.
The preposition (dar) ?in?
which beforeincorporation assigned ?-r to NP, afterincorporation together with the noun (mored-e)assigns the ?-r to the NP (d?ne?g?h).5.
The resulted compound is a ?syntacticcompound?.The needed conditions for incorporation of Noto Po can be summarized as follows:1.
Po should be morphologically simple andamong the members of this group: dar ?in?, be?to?, b?
?with?, az ?of, from?, bar ?on?.
They donot take genitive ending /-e/ (kasre-ez?fe) andhaving the [-V, -N] features are considered as?true?
prepositions (Samiian, 1992)2.
No should be morphologically simple andhaving all the features of [non-referential,abstract, complement-taking, indefinite].Hereby it becomes clear why not everycombination of ?preposition + noun?
lead to?compound prepositions?
through incorporation,even if their occurrence bears a high frequency.The algorithm-like of this process is shown infigure 3.117Figure 3Prepositions are functional and so syntacticcategories rather than lexical ones.
I believeword formation of this category is motivated bysyntax, in different ways one of which wasargued here.
This account contributes to thediscipline of computational linguistics in labelingprepositions in Farsi, as this area of prepositionlabeling has been very challenging.Although Voutilainen (2003) believes that data-driven taggers seem to be better suited for theanalysis of fixed-word-order poor-morphologylanguages like English, but the finding of thispaper is applicable to Farsi parts of speechrecognition at least in the area of compoundprepositions.Prepositions are one sort of parts of speech, therecognition of which can be helpful in stemmingfor information retrieval (IR), since knowing aword?s POS can help tell us whichmorphological affixes it can take.
It can also helpan IR application by helping select out nouns orother important words from a document.Automatic POS taggers can help in buildingautomatic word-sense disambiguatingalgorithms, and POS taggers are also used inadvanced ASR language models such as class-based n-grams (Jurafsky and Martin, 2000: 288)AcknowledgementMy special thanks go to Masood Ghayoomi atthe Institute for Humanities and Cultural Studiesfor his supports and encouragements in myresearch.ReferencesBaker, M. C. (1988) Incorporation, A Theory ofgrammatical function changing.
The Universityof Chicago Press, Chicago.Bateni, Mohammadreza (1356) Tosife S?xtemaneDasturie Zab?ne Farsi, Tehran, AmirkabirPublication.Eslami, Moharam (1379) ?enaxte Nav?yeGoft?re Zab?ne Farsi va Karborde ?n darB?zsazi va B?z?en?sie Rayaneie Goftar, Ph.Ddiss., Tehran University, Linguistic department.Farshidvard, Khosrow (1351) ?Kalameyemorakab va mey?re ta?xise ?n?, Proceedings of2nd Iranian Researches Seminar, Vol.
1, Ma?hadUniversity.Gharib, Abdolazim et al(1371) Dastare PanjOsta?d, A?rafi Publication, 10th ed.Ghol?m Ali Zade, Khosrow (1374) S?xte Zab?neFarsi, Ehy?ye Ket?b Publication.Hausser, Roland (2001) Foundations ofComputational Linguistics, Springer.Homayoun Farokh, Abdorahim (1337) DastureJ?me Zab?ne F?rsi, Tehran, Elmi Publication.Jurafski, D. and J. H. Martin (2000) Speech andLanguage Processing: An Introduction toNatural Language Processing, Computationallinguistics and Speech Recognition.
PrenticeHall, Pearson Higher Education.Kalbasi, Iran (1371) S?xte E?teq?qie V?je darF?rsie Emruz.
The Institute of Studies andCultural Researches.Khanlari, Parviz (1351) Dasture Zab?ne F?rsi,Tehran Bonyad Farhangy Iran.Khatibrahbar, Khalil (1367) Dasture Zab?neFarsi: Ketabe Harfe ez?fe va Rabt.
SadiPublication.Lieber, R. (1992) Deconstructing Morphology,The University of Chicago Press.Mashkur, M. Javad (1346) Dasturn?me dar Sarfva Nahve Zab?ne F?rsi, Shargh PublicationInstitute.Lexicon checker?
referential+ simple+ abstractNoun-movementtowardsPreposition nodeIncorporationModulePrepositionalPhrase (PP)OutputCompoundPreposition (CP)NounInputPreposition118Meshkatodini, Mehdi (1366) Dasture Zab?neF?rsi bar Payeye Nazariye Ga?t?ri, FerdowsiUniversitySadegi, Aliashraf (1349) ?Horufe ezafe darFarsie moaser?, Journal of literature andHumanities, Tehran University, pp (441-470).Samiian, Vida (1983) Structure of PhrasalCategories in Persian: An X-bar Analysis.
Ph.Ddiss.
University of California, Los Angeles.Samiian, V. (1991) Prepositions in Persian andthe Neutralization Hypothesis.
California StateUniversity, Fresno.Seyed Vafai (1353) ?Horufe ez?fe dar zab?neFarsie moaser?, Journal of Literture andHumanities, Tehran University, pp (49-86).Shafaii, Ahmad (1363) Mabanie Elmie DastureZab?ne Farsi, Novin Publication.Voutilainen, Atro (2003) in Mitkov, Ruslan(ed),The Oxford Handbook of ComputationalLinguistics, Oxford University Press.119
