Proceedings of the COLING/ACL 2006 Main Conference Poster Sessions, pages 699?706,Sydney, July 2006. c?2006 Association for Computational LinguisticsImplementing a Characterization of Genre forAutomatic Genre Identification of Web PagesMarina SantiniNLTGUniversity of BrightonUKM.Santini@brighton.ac.ukRichard PowerComputing DepartmentOpen UniversityUKr.power@open.ac.ukRoger EvansNLTGUniversity of BrightonUKR.P.Evans@brighton.ac.ukAbstractIn this paper, we propose animplementable characterization of genresuitable for automatic genreidentification of web pages.
Thischaracterization is implemented as aninferential model based on a modifiedversion of Bayes?
theorem.
Such a modelcan deal with genre hybridism andindividualization, two important forcesbehind genre evolution.
Results showthat this approach is effective and isworth further research.1 IntroductionThe term ?genre?
is employed in virtually allcultural fields: literature, music, art, architecture,dance, pedagogy, hypermedia studies, computer-mediated communication, and so forth.
As hasoften been pointed out, it is hard to pin down theconcept of genre from a unified perspective (cf.Kwasnik and Crowston, 2004).
This lack is alsoexperienced in the more restricted world of non-literary or non-fictional document genres, suchas professional or instrumental genres, wherevariation due to personal style is less pronouncedthan in literary genres.
In particular, scholarsworking with practical genres focus upon aspecific environment.
For instance Swales (1990)develops his notion of genre in academic andresearch settings, Bathia (1993) in professionalsettings, and so on.
In automatic genreclassification studies, genres have often beenseen as non-topical categories that could helpreduce information overload (e.g.
Mayer zuEissen and Stein, 2004; Lim et al, 2005).Despite the lack of an agreed theoreticalnotion, genre is a well-established term,intuitively understood in its vagueness.
Whathumans intuitively perceive is that there arecategories created within a culture, a society or acommunity which are used to group documentsthat share some conventions.
Each of thesegroups is a genre, i.e.
a cultural object or artefact,purposely made to meet and streamlinecommunicative needs.
Genres show sets ofstandardized or conventional characteristics thatmake them recognizable, and this identity raisesspecific expectations.Together with conventions and expectations,genres have many other traits.
We would like tofocus on three traits, namely hybridism,individualization and evolution.
Genres are notmutually exclusive and different genres can bemerged into a single document, generatinghybrid forms.
Also, genres allow a certainfreedom of variation and consequently can beindividualized.
Finally, genre repertoires aredynamic, i.e.
they change over time, thustriggering genre change and evolution.
It is alsoimportant to notice that before genre conventionsbecome fully standardized, a genre does not havean official name.
A genre name becomesacknowledged when the genre itself has an activerole and a communicative function in acommunity or society (Swales, 1990).
Beforethis acknowledgement, a genre shows hybrid orindividualized forms, and indistinct functions.Putting all these traits together, we suggest thefollowing broad theoretical characterization ofgenre of written texts: genres are namedcommunication artefacts characterized byconventions, raising expectations, showinghybridism and individualization, and undergoingevolution.This characterization is flexible enough toencompass not only paper genres (both literaryand practical genres), but also digital genres, andmore specifically web genres.
Web genres orcybergenres (Shepherd and Watters 1998) arethose genres created by the combination of theuse of the computer and the Internet.699Genre hybridism and individualization are veryevident on the web.
In fact, web pages are oftenvery hybrid because of the wider intra-genrevariation and the smaller inter-genredifferentiation.
They can also be highlyindividualized because of the creative freedomprovided by HTML tags (the building blocks ofweb pages) or programming languages such asJavascript.
We suggest that genre hybridism andindividualization can be seen as forces actingbehind genre evolution.
They allow the upgradeof existing genres and the creation of novelgenres.The change of genre repertoire and thecreation of new genres were well illustrated byCrowston and Williams (2000) and Shepherd andWatters (1998).
Both these studies describe asimilar process.
Web genres can start either asreproductions or as unprecedented types ofdocuments.
In the first case, existing genres aregradually upgraded and modified to adapt topotentials offered by the web.
These variantsmight become very different from the originalgenres with time passing by.
In the second case,novel genres can be generated from specificneeds and requirements of the web.
Crowstonand Williams (2000) have traced this evolutionthrough a manual qualitative survey of 1000 webpages.
Shepherd and Watters (1998) haveproposed a fuzzy taxonomy for web genres.We would like to add a new force in thisscenario, namely emerging genres.
Emerginggenre are those genres still in formation, not fullystandardized and without any name or fixedfunction.
For example, before 1998 web logs (orblogs) were already present on the web, but theywere not yet identified as a genre.
They were just?web pages?, with similar characteristics andfunctions.
In 1999, suddenly a community sprangup using this new genre (Blood, 2000).
Only atthis point, the genre ?web log?
or ?blog?
startedbeing spread and being recognized.Emerging genres may account for all thoseweb pages, which remain unclassified orunclassifiable (cf.
Crowston and Williams, 2000)because they show genre mixture or no genre atall.
Authors often point out that assigning a genreto a web page might be difficult andcontroversial (e.g.
Roussinov et al, 2001; Meyerzu Eissen and Stein, 2004; Shepherd et al, 2004)because web pages can appear hybrid or peculiar.Genre-mixed web pages or web pages withoutany evident genre can represent the antecedent ofa future genre, but currently they might beconsidered as belonging to a genre still information.
It is also important to highlight,however, that since the acknowledgement ofgenre relies on social acceptance, it is impossibleto define the exact point at which a new genreemerges (Crowston and Williams 2000).
Themulti-facetted model capable of hosting newgenres wished for by Kwasnik and Crowston(2004), and the adaptive learning system that canidentify genre as they emerge announced byShepherd et al (2004) are hard to implement.For this reason, the focus of the method proposedbelow is not to detect emerging genres, but toshow a flexible approach capable of givingaccount of genre hybridism andindividualization.Flexible genre classification systems areuncommon in automatic genre classificationstudies.
Apart from two notable exceptions,namely Kessler et al (1997) and Rehm (2006)whose implementations require extensive manualannotation (Kessler et al, 1997) or analysis(Rehm, 2006), genres are usually classified assingle-label discrete entities, relying on thesimplified assumption that a document can beassigned to only one genre.In this paper, we propose a tuplerepresentation that maps onto the theoreticalcharacterization of genre suggested above andthat can be implemented without much overhead.The implementable tuple includes the followingattributes:(genre(s)) of web pages=<linguistic features, HTML, text types, [...]>This tuple means that web pages can have zero,one or more genres ((genre(s)) of web pages)and that this situation can be captured by anumber of attributes.
For the time being theseattributes are limited to linguistic features,HTML tags, text types, but in future otherattributes can be added ([...]).
The attributes ofthe tuple can capture the presence of textualconventions or their absence.
The presence ofconventions brings about expectations, and canbe used to identify acknowledged genres.
Theabsence of conventions brings about hybridismand individualisation and can be interpreted interms of emerging genres and genre evolution.In this paper we present a simple model thatimplement the tuple and can deal with thiscomplex situation.
This model is based onstatistical inference, performs automatic textanalysis and has a classification scheme thatincludes zero labels, one label or multiple labels.More specifically, in addition to the traditionalsingle-label classification, a zero-label700classification is useful when, for example, a webpage is so peculiar from a textual point of viewthat it does not show any similarity with thegenres included in the model.
Conversely, amulti-label classification is useful when webpages show several genres at the same time.
Asthere is no standard evaluation metrics for acomprehensive evaluation of such a model, wedefer to further research the assessment of themodel as a whole.
In this paper, we report apartial evaluation based on single-labelclassification accuracy and predictions.From a theoretical point of view, theinferential model makes a clear-cut separationbetween the concepts of ?text types?
and?genres?.
Text types are rhetorical/discoursepatterns dictated by the purposes of a text.
Forexample, when the purpose of a text producer isto narrate, the narration text type is used.
On thecontrary, genres are cultural objects created by asociety or a community, characterized by a set oflinguistic and non-linguistic conventions, whichcan be fulfilled, personalized, transgressed,colonized, etc., but that are nonethelessrecognized by the members of the society andcommunity that have created them, raisingpredictable expectations.
For example, what weexpect from a personal blog is diary-formnarration of the self, where opinions andcomments are freely expressed.The model presented here is capable ofinferring text types from web pages using amodified form of Bayes?
theorem, and derivegenres through if-then rules.With this model, emerging genres can behypothesized through the analysis of unexpectedcombinations of text types and/or other traits in alarge number of web pages.
However, thispotential will be investigated in future work.
Theresults presented here are just a first step towardsa more dynamic view of a genre classificationsystem.Automatic identification of text types andgenres represents a great advantage in manyfields because manual annotation is expensiveand time-consuming.
Apart from the benefits thatit could bring to information retrieval,information extraction, digital libraries and soforth, automatic identification of text types andgenres could be particularly useful for problemsthat natural language processing (NLP) isconcerned with.
For example, parsing accuracycould be increased if parsers were tested ondifferent text types or genres, as certainconstructions may occur only in certain types oftexts.
The same is true for Part-of-Speech (POS)tagging and word sense disambiguation.
Moreaccurate NLP tools could in turn be beneficial forautomatic genre identification, because manyfeatures used for this task are extracted from theoutput of taggers and parsers, such as POSfrequencies and syntactic constructions.The paper is organized as follows: Section 2reports previous characterization that have beenimplemented as statistical or computationalmodels; Section 3 illustrates the attributes of thetuple; Section 4 describes the inferential modeland reports evaluation; finally in Section 5 wedraw some conclusions and outline points forfuture work.2 BackgroundAlthough both Crowston and Williams (2000)and Shepherd and Watters (1998) have welldescribed the evolution of genres on the web,when it comes to the actual genre identificationof web pages (Roussinov et al, 2001; andShepherd et al, 2004, respectively), they setaside the evolutionary aspect and consider genrefrom a static point of view.
For Crowston andWilliams (2000) and the follow-up Roussinov etal.
(2001) most genres imply a combination of<purpose/function, form, content>, and, as theyare complex entities, a multi-facettedclassification seems appropriate (Kwasnik andCrowston, 2004).
For Shepherd and Watters(1998) and the practical implementationShepherd et al (2004), cybergenres or webgenres are characterized by the triple <content,form, functionality>, where functionality is a keyevolutionary aspect afforded by the web.Crowston and co-workers have not yetimplemented the combination of<purpose/function, form, content> together withthe facetted classification in any automaticclassification model, but the tuple <content,form, function> has been employed by Rehm(2006) for an original approach to single-webgenre analysis, the personal home pages in thedomain of academia.
Rehm (2006) describes therelationship between HTML and web genres anddepicts the evolutionary processes that shape andform web genres.
In the practicalimplementation, however, he focuses only on asingle web genre, the academic?s personal homepage, that is seen from a static point of view.
Asfar as we know, Boese and Howe (2005) is theonly study that tries to implement a diachronicview on genre of web pages using the triple701<style, form, content>.
This study has thepractical aim of finding out whether feature setsfor genre identification need to be changed orupdated because of genre evolution.
They tried todetect the change through the use of a classifieron two parallel corpora separated by a six-yeargap.
Although this study does not focus on howto detect newly created web genres or how todeal with difficult web pages, it is an interestingstarting point for traditional diachronic analysisapplied to automatic genre classification.In contrast, the model described in this paperaims at pointing out genre hybridism andindividualisation in web pages.
These twophenomena can be interpreted in terms of genreevolution in future investigations.3 Attributes of the TupleThe attributes <linguistic features, HTML tags,text types> of the tuple represent thecomputationally tractable version of thecombination <purpose, form> often used todefine the concept of genre (e.g.
cf.
Roussinov etal.
2001).In our view, the purpose corresponds to texttypes, i.e.
the rhetorical patterns that indicatewhat a text has been written for.
For example, atext can be produced to narrate, instruct, argue,etc.
Narration, instruction, and argumentation areexamples of text types.
As stressed earlier, texttypes are usually considered separate entitiesfrom genres (cf.
Biber, 1988; Lee, 2001).Form is a more heterogeneous attribute.
Formcan refer to linguistic form and to the shape(layout etc.).
From an automatic point of view,linguistic form is represented by linguisticfeatures, while shape is represented by HTMLtags.
Also the functionality attribute introducedby Shepherd and Watters (1998) can be seen interms of HTML tags (e.g.
tags for links andscripts).
While content words or terms showsome drawbacks for automatic genreidentification (cf.
Boese and Howe, 2005), thereare several types of linguistic features that returngood results, for instance, Biberian features(Biber, 1988).
In the model presented here weuse a mixture of Biberian features and additionalsyntactic traits.
The total number of features usedin this implementation of the model is 100.These features are available online at:http://www.nltg.brighton.ac.uk/home/Marina.Santini/4 Inferential ModelThe inferential model presented here (partiallydiscussed in Santini (2006a) combines theadvantages of deductive and inductiveapproaches.
It is deductive because the co-occurrence and the combination of features intext types is decided a priori by the linguist onthe basis on previous studies, and not derived bya statistical procedure, which is too biasedtowards high frequencies (some linguisticphenomena can be rare, but they are nonethelessdiscriminating).
It is also inductive because theinference process is corpus-based, which meansthat it is based on a pool of data used to predictsome text types.
A few handcrafted if-then rulescombine the inferred text types with other traits(mainly layout and functionality tags) in order tosuggest genres.
These rules are worked out eitheron the basis of previous genre studies or of acursory qualitative analysis.
For example, rulesfor personal home pages are based on theobservations by Roberts (1998), Dillon andGushrowski (2000).
When previous studies werenot available, as in the cases of eshops or searchpages, the author of this paper has brieflyanalysed these genres to extract generalizationsuseful to write few rules.It is important to stress that there is no hand-coding in the model.
Web pages were randomlydownloaded from genre-specific portals orarchives without any further annotation.
Webpages were parsed, linguistic features wereautomatically extracted and counted from theparsed outputs, while frequencies of HTML tagswere automatically counted from the raw webpages.
All feature frequencies were normalizedby the length of web pages (in tokens) and thensubmitted to the model.As stated earlier, the inferential model makesa clear-cut separation between text types andgenres.
The four text types included in thisimplementation are: descriptive_narrative,expository_informational, argumentative_persuasive,and instructional.
The linguistic features for thesetext types come from previous (corpus-)linguisticstudies (Werlich 1976; Biber, 1988; etc.
), and arenot extracted from the corpus using statisticalmethods.
For each web page the model returnsthe probability of belonging to the four texttypes.
For example, a web page can have 0.9probabilities of being argumentative_persuasive,0.7 of being instructional and so on.
Probabilitiesare interpreted in terms of degree or gradation.For example, a web page with 0.9 probabilities702of being argumentative_persuasive shows a highgradation of argumentation.
Gradations/probabilities are ranked for each web page.The computation of text types as intermediatestep between linguistic and non-linguisticfeatures and genres is useful if we see genres asconventionalised and standardized culturalobjects raising expectations.
For example, whatwe expect from an editorial is an ?opinion?
or a?comment?
by the editor, which represents,broadly speaking, the view of the newspaper ormagazine.
Opinions are a form of?argumentation?.
Argumentation is a rhetoricalpattern, or text type, expressed by a combinationof linguistic features.
If a document shows a highprobability of being argumentative, i.e.
it has ahigh gradation of argumentation, this documenthas a good chance of belonging to argumentativegenres, such as editorials, sermons, pleadings,academic papers, etc.
It has less chances of beinga story, a biography, etc.
We suggest that theexploitation of this knowledge about thetextuality of a web page can add flexibility to themodel and this flexibility can capture hybridismand individualization, the key forces behindgenre evolution.4.1 The Web CorpusThe inferential model is based on a corpusrepresentative of the web.
In this implementationof the model we approximated one of thepossible compositions of a random slice of theweb, statistically supported by reliable standarderror measures.
We built a web corpus with fourBBC web genres (editorial, Do-It-Yourself(DIY) mini-guide, short biography, and feature),seven novel web genres (blog, eshop, FAQs,front page, listing, personal home page, searchpage), and 1,000 unclassified web pages fromSPIRIT collection (Joho and Sanderson, 2004).The total number of web pages is 2,480.
The fourBBC genres represent traditional genres adaptedto the functionalities of the web, while the sevengenres are novel web genres, eitherunprecedented or showing a loose kinship withpaper genres.
Proportions are purely arbitraryand based on the assumption that at least half ofweb users tend to use recognized genre patternsin order to achieve felicitous communication.
Weconsider the sampling distribution of the samplemean as approximately normal, following theCentral Limit Theorem.
This allows us to makeinferences even if the population distribution isirregular or if variables are very skewed orhighly discrete.
The web corpus is available at:http://www.nltg.brighton.ac.uk/home/Marina.Santini/4.2 Bayesian Inference: Inferring withOdds-LikelihoodThe inferential model is based on a modifiedversion of Bayes?
theorem.
This modifiedversion uses a form of Bayes?
theorem calledodds-likelihood or subjective Bayesian method(Duda and Reboh, 1984) and is capable ofsolving more complex reasoning problems thanthe basic version.
Odds is a number that tells ushow much more likely one hypothesis is than theother.
Odds and probabilities contain exactly thesame information and are interconvertible.
Themain difference with original Bayes?
theorem isthat in the modified version much of the effort isdevoted to weighing the contributions ofdifferent pieces of evidence in establishing thematch with a hypothesis.
These weights areconfidence measures: Logical Sufficiency (LS)and Logical Necessity (LN).
LS is used when theevidence is known to exist (larger value meansgreater sufficiency), while LN is used whenevidence is known NOT to exist (a smaller valuemeans greater necessity).
LS is typically anumber > 1, and LN is typically a number < 1.Usually LS*LN=1.
In this implementation of themodel, LS and LN were set to 1.25 and 0.8respectively, on the basis of previous studies andempirical adjustments.
Future work will includemore investigation on the tuning of these twoparameters.The steps included in the model are thefollowing:1) Representation of the web in a corpus that isapproximately normal.2) Extraction, count and normalization of genre-revealing features.3) Conversion of normalized counts into z-scores,which represent the deviation from the ?norm?coming out from the web corpus.
The concept of?gradation?
is based on these deviations from thenorm.4) Conversion of z-scores into probabilities, whichmeans that feature frequencies are seen in termsof probabilities distribution.5) Calculation of prior odds from prior probabilitiesof a text type.
The prior probability for each ofthe four text types was set to 0.25 (all text typeswere given an equal chance to appear in a webpage).
Prior odds are calculated with the formula:prOdds(H)=prProb(H)/1-prProb(H)6) Calculation of weighted features, or multipliers(Mn).
If a feature or piece of evidence (E) has a703probability >=0.5, LS is applied, otherwise LN isapplied.
Multipliers are calculated with thefollowing formulae:if  Prob (E)>=0.5 thenM(E)=1+(LS-1)(Prob(E)-0.5)/0.25if Prob (E)<0.5 thenM(E)=1-(1-LN)(0.5-Prob(E))/0.257) Multiplication of weighted probabilities together,according to the co-occurrence decided by theanalyst on the basis of previous studies in order toinfer text types.
In this implementation thefeature co-occurrence was decided followingWerlich (1976) and Biber (1988).8) Posterior odds for the text type is then calculatedby multiplying prior odds (step 5) with co-occurrence of weighted features (step 7).9) Finally, posterior odds is re-converted into aprobability value with the following formula:Prob(H)=Odds(H)/1+Odds(H)Although odds contains exactly the sameinformation as probability values, they are notconstrained in 0-1 range, like probabilities.Once text types have been inferred, if-thenrules are applied for determining genres.
Inparticular, for each of the seven web genreincluded in this implementation, few hand-crafted rules combine the two predominant texttypes per web genre with additional traits.
Forexample, the actual rules for deriving a blog areas simple as the following ones:if (text_type_1=descr_narrat_1|argum_pers_1)if (text_type_2=descr_narrat_2|argum_pers_2)if (page_length=LONG)if (blog_words >= 0.5 probabilities)then good blog candidate.That is, if a web page has description_narrationand argumentation_persuasion as the twopredominant text types, and the page length is >500 words (LONG), and the probability value forblog words is >=0.5 (blog words are terms suchas web log, weblog, blog, journal, diary, postedby, comments, archive plus names of the daysand months), then this web page is a good blogcandidate.For other web genres, the number of rules ishigher, but it is worth saying that in the currentimplementation, rules are useful to understandhow features interact and correlate.One important thing to highlight is that eachgenre is computed independently for each webpage.
Therefore a web page can be assigned todifferent genres (Table 1) or to none (Table 2).Multi-label and no-label classification cannot beevaluated with standard metrics and theirevaluation requires further research.
In the nextsubsection we present the evaluation of thesingle label classification returned by theinferential model.4.3 Evaluation of the ResultsSingle-label classification.
For the seven webgenres we compared the classification accuracyof the inferential model with the accuracy ofclassifiers.
Two standard classifiers ?
SVM andNaive Bayes from Weka Machine LearningWorkbench (Witten, Frank, 2005) ?
were run onthe seven web genres.
The stratified cross-validated accuracy returned by these classifiersfor one seed is ca.
89% for SVM and ca.
67% forNa?ve Bayes.
The accuracy achieved by theinferential model is ca.
86%.An accuracy of 86% is a good achievement fora first implementation, especially if we considerthat the standard Na?ve Bayes classifier returnsan accuracy of about 67%.
Although slightlylower than SVM, an accuracy of 86% lookspromising because this evaluation is only on asingle label.
Ideally the inferential model couldbe more accurate than SVM if more labels couldbe taken into account.
For example, the actualclassification returned by the inferential model isshown in Table 1.
The web pages in Table 1 areblogs but they also contain either sequences ofquestions and answers or are organized like ahow-to document, like in the snippet in Figure 1blogaugustine0000024GOODblogBADeshopGOODfaqBADfrontpageBADlistingBADphpBADspageblogbritblog00000107GOODblogBADeshopGOODfaqBADfrontpageBADlistingBADphpBADspageTable 1.
Examples of multi-label classificationFigure 1.
Snippet blog_augustine_0000024704The snippet shows an example of genrecolonization, where the vocabulary and textforms of one genre (FAQs/How to in this case)are inserted in another (cf.
Beghtol, 2001).
Thesestrategies are frequent on the web and might giverise to new web genres.
The model also capturesa situation where the genre labels available in thesystem are not suitable for the web page underanalysis, like in the example in Table 2.SPRT_010_049_112_0055685BADblogBADeshopBADfaqBADfrontpageBADlistingBADphpBADspageTable 2.
Example of zero label classificationThis web page (shown in Figure 2) from theunannotated SPIRIT collection (see Section 4.1)does not receive any of the genre labels currentlyavailable in the system.Figure 2.
SPRT_010_049_112_0055685If the pattern shown in Figure 2 keeps onrecurring even when more web genres are addedto the system, a possible interpretation could bethat this pattern might develop into a stable webgenre in future.
If this happens, the system willbe ready to host such a novelty.
In the currentimplementation, only a few rules need to beadded.
In future implementations hand-craftedrules can be replaced by other methods.
Forexample, an interesting adaptive solution hasbeen explored by Segal and Kephart (2000).Predictions.
Precision of predictions on one webgenre is used as an additional evaluation metric.The predictions on the eshop genre issued by theinferential model are compared with thepredictions returned by two SVM models builtwith two different web page collections, Meyer-zu-Eissen collection and the 7-web-genrecollection (Santini, 2006).
Only the predictionson eshops are evaluated, because eshop is theonly web genre shared by the three models.
Thenumber of predictions is shown in Table 3.Models TotalPredictionsCorrectPredictionsIncorrectPredictions andUncertainMeyer-zu-Eissenand SVM6 3 37-web-genre andSVM11 3 8Web corpus andinferential model17 6 11Table 3.
Predictions on eshopsThe number of retrieved web pages (TotalPredictions) is higher when the inferential modelis used.
Also the value of precision (CorrectPredictions) is higher.
The manual evaluation ofthe predictions is available online at:http://www.nltg.brighton.ac.uk/home/Marina.Santini/5 Conclusions and Future WorkFrom a technical point of view, the inferentialmodel presented in this paper is a simple startingpoint for reflection on a number of issues inautomatic identification of genres in web pages.Although parameters need a better tuning andtext type and genre palettes need to be enlarged,it seems that the inferential approach is effective,as shown by the preliminary evaluation reportedin Section 4.3.More importantly, this model instantiates atheoretical characterization of genre that includeshybridism and individualization, and interpretsthese two elements as the forces behind genreevolution.
It is also worth noticing that theinclusion of the attribute ?text types?
in the tuplegives flexibility to the model.
In fact, the modelcan assign not only a single genre label, as inprevious approaches to genre, but also multiplelabels or no label at all.
Ideally othercomputationally tractable attributes can be addedto the tuple to increase flexibility and provide amulti-facetted classification, for example registeror layout analysis.However, other issues remain open.
First, thepossibility of a comprehensive evaluation of themodel is to be explored.
So far, only tentativeevaluation schemes exist for multi-labelclassification (e.g.
McCallum, 1999).
Furtherresearch is still needed.Second, in this model the detection of emerginggenres can be done indirectly through theanalysis of an unexpected combination of texttypes and/or genres.
Other possibilities can beexplored in future.
Also the objective evaluation705of emerging genres requires further research anddiscussion.More feasible in the short term is aninvestigation of the scalability of the model,when additional web pages, classified or notclassified by genre, are added to the web corpus.Also the possibility of replacing hand-craftedrules with some learning methodology can beexplored in the near future.
Apart from theapproach suggested by Segal and Kephart (2000)mentioned above, many other pieces ofexperience are now available on adaptivelearning (for example those reported in theEACL 2006 on Workshop on Adaptive TextExtraction and Mining).ReferencesBathia V. 1993.
Analysing Genre.
Language Use inProfessional Settings.
Longman, London-NY.Beghtol C. 2001.
The Concept of Genre and ItsCharacteristics.
Bulletin of The American Societyfor Inform.
Science and Technology, Vol.
27 (2).Biber D. 1988.
Variations across speech and writing.Cambridge University Press, Cambridge.Blood, R. 2000.
Weblogs: A History and Perspective,Rebecca's Pocket.Boese E. and Howe A.
2005.
Effects of WebDocument Evolution on Genre Classification.CIKM 2005, Germany.Crowston K. and Williams M. 2000.
Reproduced andEmergent Genres of Communication on the World-Wide Web, The Information Society, 16(3), 201-216.Dillon, A. and Gushrowski, B.
2000.
Genres and theWeb: is the personal home page the first uniquelydigital genre?, JASIS, 51(2).Duda R. and Reboh R. 1984.
AI and decision making:The PROSPECTOR experience.
In Reitman, W.(Ed.
), Artificial Intelligence Applications forBusiness, Norwood, NJ.Joho H. and Sanderson M. 2004.
The SPIRITcollection: an overview of a large web collection,SIGIR Forum, December 2004, Vol.
38(2).Kessler B., Numberg G. and Sh?tze H. (1997),Automatic Detection of Text Genre, Proc.
35 ACLand 8  EACL.Kwasnik B and Crowston K. 2004.
A Framework forCreating a Facetted Classification for Genres:Addressing Issues of Multidimensionality.
Proc.37 Hawaii Intern.
Conference on System Science.Lee D. 2001.
Genres, Registers, Text types, Domains,and Styles: Clarifying the concepts and navigatinga path through the BNC Jungle.
LanguageLearning and Technology, 5, 37-72.Lim, C., Lee, K. and Kim G. 2005.
Automatic GenreDetection of Web Documents, in Su K., Tsujii J.,Lee J., Kwong O. Y.
(eds.)
Natural LanguageProcessing, Springer, Berlin.Meyer zu Eissen S. and Stein B.
2004.
GenreClassification of Web Pages: User Study andFeasibility Analysis, in Biundo S., Fruhwirth T.,Palm G.
(eds.
), Advances in Artificial Intelligence,Springer, Berlin, 256-269.McCallum A.
1999.
Multi-Label Text Classificationwith a Mixture Model Trained by EM, AAAI'99Workshop on Text Learning.Rehm G. 2006.
Hypertext Types and MarkupLanguages.
In Metzing D. and Witt A.
(eds.
),Linguistic Modelling of Information and MarkupLanguages.
Springer, 2006 (in preparation).Roberts, G. 1998.
The Home Page as Genre: ANarrative Approach, Proc.
31 Hawaii Intern.Conference on System Sciences.Roussinov D., Crowston K., Nilan M., Kwasnik B.,Cai J., Liu X.
2001.
Genre Based Navigation onthe Web, Proc.
34 Hawaii Intern.
Conference onSystem Sciences.Santini M. 2006a.
Identifying Genres of Web Pages,TALN 06 - Actes de la 13 Conference sur leTraitement Automatique des Langues Naturelles,Vol.
1, 307-316.Santini M. 2006b.
Some issues in Automatic GenreClassification of Web Pages,  JADT 06 ?
Actes des8 Journ?es internationales d?analyse statistiquesdes donn?s textuelles, Vol 2, 865-876.Segal R. and Kephart J.
2000.
Incremental Learningin SwiftFile.
Proc.
17 Intern.
Conf.
on MachineLearning.Shepherd M. and Watters C. 1998.
The Evolution ofCybergenre,  Proc.
31 Hawaii Intern.
Conferenceon System Sciences.Shepherd M.,  Watters C., Kennedy A.
2004.Cybergenre: Automatic Identification of HomePages on the Web.
Journal of Web Engineering,Vol.
3(3-4), 236-251.Swales, J. Genre Analysis.
English in academic andresearch settings, Cambridge University Press,Cambridge, 1990.Werlich E. (1976).
A Text Grammar of English.Quelle & Meyer, Heidelberg.706
