Proceedings of the COLING/ACL 2006 Main Conference Poster Sessions, pages 555?562,Sydney, July 2006. c?2006 Association for Computational LinguisticsModeling Adjectives in Computational Relational LexicaPalmira MarrafaDepartment of Linguistics, Faculty of Arts,University of Lisbon andCLG ?
Group for the Computation of Lexicaland Grammatical Knowledge,Center of Linguistics ?
University of Lisbon,Avenida Professor Gama Pinto, 21649-003 Lisbon Portugalpalmira.marrafa@netcabo.ptSara MendesCLG ?
Group for the Computation of Lexicaland Grammatical KnowledgeCenter of Linguistics ?
University of LisbonAvenida Professor Gama Pinto, 21649-003 Lisbon, Portugalsara.mendes@clul.ul.ptAbstractIn this paper we propose a small set oflexical conceptual relations which allowto encode adjectives in computational re-lational lexica in a principled and inte-grated way.
Our main motivation comesfrom the fact that adjectives and certainclasses of verbs, related in a way or an-other with adjectives, do not have a satis-factory representation in this kind oflexica.
This is due to a great extent to theheterogeneity of their semantic and syn-tactic properties.
We sustain that suchproperties are mostly derived from therelations holding between adjectives andother POS.
Accordingly, our proposal ismainly concerned with the specificationof appropriate cross-POS relations to en-code adjectives in lexica of the type con-sidered here.1 IntroductionAs well known, the experiment conducted byGeorge Miller on the mental lexicon propertiesin the early 80s pointed out that lexical meaningis derived from a set of lexical and conceptualrelations among concepts.
Subsequently, a com-putational lexicon conceived as a semantic net-work has been built (the Princeton WordNet(Miller, 1990; Fellbaum, 1998)).
Given its psy-chological plausibility and its crucial role forapplications like machine translation, informa-tion retrieval and language learning systems,among many others, this relational lexiconmodel is being extensively adopted for machinelexical knowledge representations, playing aleading role in this field.One of the most salient undertaking in thisdomain is EuroWordNet (Vossen, 1998), a mul-tilingual database which stores wordnets for sev-eral European languages that follow the samemain lines as the Princeton WordNet (Miller,1990; Fellbaum, 1998) and are inter-relatedamongst them.EuroWordNet wordnets follow the PrincetonWordNet model, but they are richer concerningboth the number and the nature of conceptualrelations.The work depicted here programmaticallyadopts the EuroWordNet framework.In general terms, it deals with the specifica-tions for an accurate modeling of lexical knowl-edge in a EuroWordNet wordnet-like databasefor Portuguese (WordNet.PT, henceforth), spe-cifically focusing on the lexical semantics ofadjectives.Although WordNet.PT (Marrafa, 2001; Mar-rafa, 2002) is being developed in the general Eu-roWordNet framework, basic research has beencarried out on Portuguese in order to guaranteethe WordNet.PT accuracy.
This work has al-ready led to some changes and new directions(cf.
Marrafa et al, (2006) and Amaro et al,(2006), for instance).In this paper we propose a small set of new re-lations which allow a strongly empirical moti-vated encoding of the major POS in Word-Net.PT, despite the fact that we particularly fo-cus on adjectives.
The empirical issues at stakeare described in section 2.
In section 3 we dis-cuss the strategies adopted in previous work car-ried out both in WordNet and EuroWordNetframeworks, in order to make their shortcomingsapparent.
In section 4 we present our proposal555and argue for its relevance and soundness.
Sec-tion 5 presents some results concerning the en-coding of adjectives in WordNet.PT.
We con-clude the paper with some final remarks.2 Empirical IssuesAdjective semantic analysis and representation isfar from being a trivial issue, as adjectives showa very particular linguistic behavior, namely inwhat concerns sense change depending on lin-guistic context.
Being so, there are several dif-ferent typologies and classifications of adjectivesin the literature: semantic based classifications,syntactic based classifications, classificationsregarding the relation holding between the adjec-tive and the modified noun, and so on.As our work on this issue progresses, it hasbecome clear that only a combination of syntac-tic and semantic criteria can offer interestinginsights concerning adjective linguistic behaviorand the identification of relevant common fea-tures, which may set the basis for an accuratemodeling of this POS in computational relationallexica.
In this section we will briefly look atsome of the main adjective classifications.Regarding the way adjectives relate to thenoun they modify, we consider two classes:property ascribing adjectives (in (1)), which adda new restriction to the properties introduced bythe modified noun; and reference modifying ad-jectives (in (2)), which behave like a semanticoperator, taking the reference of the modifiednoun as its argument1.
(1) o livro azul?the blue book?
(2) o diamante falso?the fake diamond?Adjectives like falso (fake), for instance, dealwith concepts instead of real or referential ob-jects, showing how a concept applies to a par-ticular object.
These adjectives constitute aclosed class with very particular properties,which makes them somewhat close to semanticoperators.
In this work we will therefore focuson property ascribing adjectives.1 This distinction between property ascribing adjectives andreference modifying adjectives is basically equivalent tothe one used in the SIMPLE project (Lenci et al, 2000)(extensional vs. intensional adjectives, following Chier-chia and McConnel-Ginet (1990)) to address the seman-tics of adjectives.
This distinction is also included in theEAGLES recommendations for a semantic typology ofadjectives.Demonte (1999) classifies property ascribingadjectives based on their intrinsic meaning, aclassification combining syntactic and semanticcriteria to determine which adjectives belong towhich class.
Two main subclasses are consid-ered: descriptive adjectives and relational adjec-tives.
Each of these classes displays specific se-mantic and syntactic properties.In languages like Portuguese, descriptive ad-jectives can occur both in attributive and predi-cative contexts, while relational adjectives occuralmost exclusively in attributive contexts2.
Bothprenominal and postnominal positions are possi-ble for descriptive adjectives in attributive con-texts.
Relational adjectives, on the contrary, canonly occur in postnominal position.
Finally, de-scriptive adjectives are gradable, i.e.
they can co-occur with degree adverbs, which is not the casefor relational adjectives.
However, these criteriaare not always sufficient to make a clear-cut dis-tinction between relational and descriptive adjec-tives.
Demonte (1999) proposes some additionalcriteria in order to make a more accurate distinc-tion between these adjectives: their occurrencein comparative structures, and the formation ofpolarity systems.
(3) a. O sabor desta laranja ?
mais doce do que odaquela.
?this orange taste is sweeter than that one's?b.
o rapaz alto / o rapaz baixo?the tall boy / the short boy?
(4) a.
*Este sabor ?
mais mineral do que aquele.
?this taste is more mineral than that one?b.
o sabor mineral / *o sabor amineral?the mineral taste / the amineral taste?But most of all, and besides all the syntacticalcontrasts we have mentioned above, there is aclear contrast in the way these two adjectiveclasses relate to the noun they modify.
Descrip-tive adjectives ascribe a single property, setting avalue for an attribute, whereas relational adjec-tives introduce a set of properties.
(5) o pr?dio alto?the high building?2 Predicative contexts with relational adjectives are gener-ally ruled out in Portuguese.
Nonetheless, some specificcontexts, like contrastive contexts, for instance, seem tolicense predicative uses of relational adjectives:(I) As pr?ximas elei?
?es s?o aut?rquicas, n?o s?opresidenciais.
?next election will be autarchic, not presidential?556(6) a ind?stria alimentar?the alimentary industry?Looking at (5) and (6), we see that, while alto(high) sets the value of the height attribute ofpr?dio (building) to high, alimentar (alimentary)does not ascribe a single property, but a set ofproperties to ind?stria (industry).
Moreover, thisset of properties corresponds to the main featuresdescribing another noun ?
alimento (food) in theexample above.
In fact, the way properties areascribed to the modified nouns in (5) and in (6)are quite different.
Ascribing a singular propertyusually corresponds to an incidence relation ofthis property in the nominal referent, while as-cribing sets of properties usually entails morecomplex and diversified semantic relations.However, despite the relevance of the descrip-tive/relational dichotomy, it cannot account forthe following contrasts:(7) a.
*Ele viu a Maria alta.
?He saw Mary tall?b.
Ele viu a Maria triste.
?He saw Mary sad?.Both alta and triste are descriptive adjectives,but they do not behave in the same way regard-ing secondary predication.We can refine the classification, considering,for instance, the opposition between accidentalproperties and permanent or inherent properties(this distinction goes back to Milsark (1974;1977) and Carlson (1977)).
According to thisdistinction, the property denoted by alta (tall)belongs to the latter class and the property de-noted by triste (sad) to the former one.
However,as pointed out by Marrafa (2004) and previouswork, the characterization of adjectives on thebasis of this dichotomy is not straightforward,since certain adjectives are ambiguous with re-gard to those properties, as it is the case of triste(sad).
In the example above triste (sad) denotesan accidental property, but in an expression likeum livro triste (a sad book) it denotes a perma-nent property.Intuitively, we can say that triste (sad) ex-presses a state of tristeza (sadness), but we letthe discussion of the status of this relation out ofthe scope of this paper.Nevertheless, this kind of adjectives is ofgreat importance to model telic verbs.
The se-mantics of telic verbs involves a change of stateof their theme argument, i.e.
the subevent thatcloses the whole event is an atomic event, (astate) that affects the theme and is different fromits initial state.
As argued in Marrafa (2005) andprevious work, by default, verbs like lavar (towash) are associated to the following Lexical-Conceptual Structure (LCS?
in Pustejovsky(1991)):(8) [T [P act(x,y)and ~ Q(y)],  [eQ(y)]]T:transition, P:process, e: event, Q: atomic eventWhen syntactically realized, the telic subeventgenerally corresponds to an adjectival constitu-ent, like in the example below:(9) Ele lavou a camisa bem lavada.
'He washed the shirt well washed'In (9) the absence of the telic expression bemlavada (well washed) does not induce ungram-maticality.
However, in the case of verbs liketornar (to make), it seems impossible to assign avalue to Q independently of the telic expression.
(10) a. Ele tornou a Maria triste.
?He made Mary sad?b.
*Ele tornou a Maria.
'He made Mary'Along the lines of Marrafa (1993) and furtherwork, verbs like tornar (to make) are assumedhere to be LCS deficitary, the telic expressionfilling the gap of the LCS of the verb.As shown below, the troponyms of these verbsincorporate the telic state:(12) a. Ele entristeceu a Maria.
'He saddened Mary'b.
*Ele entristeceu a Maria triste.
'He saddened Mary sad'The grammaticality contrast above is due tothe fact that entristecer (to sadden) incorporatesthe telic state.
This justifies that this verb can beparaphrased by tornar triste (to make sad).In this section we have mainly focused onproperty ascribing adjectives.
We have consid-ered two main subclasses, descriptive and rela-tional adjectives, briefly presenting their syntac-tic and semantic behavior with regard to grad-ability, formation of polarity systems and theiroccurrence in predicative and attributive (bothpronominally and postnominally) contexts andcomparative structures.
We have also addressedthe issue of adjective relation with the noun theymodify.
Different adjective behavior regardingsecondary predication is also discussed and ana-lyzed in terms of the opposition between acci-557dental and permanent properties.
The propertiesdiscussed in this section should be encoded incomputational relational lexica such as wordnets.3 Adjectives in WordNet and in Eu-roWordNetHyponymy is the main structuring relation bothin WordNet and in EuroWordNet.
However, thesemantic organization of adjectives is entirelydifferent from that of other POS: nothing like thehierarchies of hyponymic (in the semantic or-ganization of nouns) and troponymic relations(in the semantic organization of verbs) is avail-able for adjectives.
Even if it is possible to findsome small local hierarchies, hypero-nymy/hyponymy is far from being the crucialsemantic relation in the organization of adjec-tives in relational lexical databases such aswordnets.However, some authors working within theEuroWordNet framework have reconsidered thepossibility of encoding hyponymy for adjectives.Hamp and Feldweg (1998), in the developmentof GermaNet, abandon the cluster organizationof WordNet in favor of a hierarchical structuringof adjectives, arguing for a uniform treatment ofall POS.
Even though taxonomic chains of adjec-tives yield rather flat in comparison to those ofnouns and verbs, these authors claim to derivemore structural information from these smalltaxonomies than from clusters, as they seek toeliminate what they consider to be the ?ratherfuzzy concept of indirect antonyms?.
Eventhough the concept of indirect antonymy is notcompletely clear, it is not obvious to us why thisfact should entail that adjectives must show ahierarchical organization instead.In ItalWordNet, Alonge et al (2000) also or-ganize adjectives into classes sharing a su-perordinate.
These classes correspond to adjec-tives sharing some semantic features, and aregenerally rather flat.
These authors argue for thepossibility of inferring semantic preferences andsyntactic characteristics of adjectives found inthe same taxonomy.
The SIMPLE project ad-dresses the semantics of adjectives in a similarway, identifying a set of common features rele-vant for classifying and describing adjective be-havior.
However, as noted by Peters and Peters(2000), even though similarities exist ?adjectivesbelonging to the same semantic class may differfrom each other in numerous ways?, i.e.
theclasses established in this way are not homoge-neous.In WordNet, descriptive and relational adjec-tives are distinguished, first, by being encoded inseparate files, and second, by the relations hold-ing between synsets.Descriptive adjectives are organized in clus-ters of synsets, each cluster being associated bysemantic similarity to a focal adjective which islinked to a contrasting cluster through an an-tonymy relation.
Therefore, antonymy is the ba-sic semantic relation used in WordNet to encodedescriptive adjectives.
As argued for in Miller(1998), this cluster organization of adjectivesseems to mirror psychological principles.
In fact,this organization is clearly motivated if we rec-ognize that these adjectives main function re-gards the expression of attributes, and that animportant number of attributes are bipolar.Relational adjectives, on the other hand, donot have antonyms.
Therefore, they cannot beorganized in opposite clusters.
As pointed out byLevi (1978), the intrinsic meaning of these ad-jectives is something along the following lines:?of, relating/pertaining to, associated with?
somenoun.
The way these adjectives are encoded inWordNet mirrors this as it links relational adjec-tives to the nouns they relate to.In GermaNet a distinct treatment of relationaland descriptive adjectives is abandoned, as thedistinction between these two classes is consid-ered to be ?not at all clear?.
Nonetheless, theWordNet strategy for distinguishing betweendifferent adjective classes is maintained: listinglexical items in different files3.As pointed out in the previous section, even ifthe distinction between these two classes is notalways clear-cut, testing adjectives against theset of syntactic and semantic criteria presented insection 2 allows us to distinguish descriptivefrom relational adjectives.
We consider that thisdistinction can be mirrored in the database viathe semantic relations expressed in the network,adjective listing in different files not being there-fore necessary.
In order to do this we proposeseveral cross-POS relations, since in the Eu-roWordNet model, unlike what happens inWordNet where each POS forms a separate sys-tem, it is possible to relate lexical items belong-ing to different POS.
Such an approach has the3 GermaNet classifies the adjectives into 15 semanticclasses, following the classes proposed by Hundsnurscherand Splett (1982), with some minor changes: percep-tional, spatial, temporality-related, motion-related, mate-rial-related, weather-related, body-related, mood-related,spirit-related, behaviour-related, social-related, quantity-related, relational and general adjectives.
One specialclass is added for pertainyms.558advantage of coping with adjective representa-tion in lexical semantic databases without usingstrategies external to the lexical model, such as apriori semantic classes or separate files corre-sponding to different classes.4 Relating adjectives, nouns and verbsIt is undeniable that important structural infor-mation can be extracted from the hierarchicalorganization of lexical items, namely of nounsand verbs.
However, extending wordnets to allthe main POS involves a revision of certaincommonly used relations and the specification ofseveral cross-POS relations.We previously mentioned that adjectives showa very particular semantic organization.
Thus,encoding adjectives in wordnets calls for thespecification of a number of cross-POS semanticrelations.
Here we use these cross-POS semanticrelations to mirror adjectives main features inwordnet-like databases, which allows us to makeadjective classes emerge from the relations ex-pressed in the network.According to the strategies discussed in Men-des (2006), we present here the relations we ar-gue are appropriate to encode adjectives andshow how they conform to some complex phe-nomena.4.1 Relating Adjectives and NounsTo put it somewhat simplistically, descriptiveadjectives ascribe a value of an attribute to anoun.
We link each descriptive adjective to theattribute it modifies via the semantic relationcharacterizes with regard to/can be character-ized by4.
Thus, instead of linking adjectivesamongst themselves by a similarity relation, fol-lowing what is done in WordNet, all adjectivesmodifying the same attribute are linked to thenoun that lexicalizes this attribute.
This way, andin combination with the antonymy relation, weobtain the cluster effect argued to be the basis ofthe organization of adjectives (Miller, 1998;Fellbaum et al 1993), without having to encodeit directly in the database.As shown by word association tests, antonymyis also a basic relation in the organization of de-scriptive adjectives.
Nonetheless, this relationdoes not correspond to conceptual opposition,which is one of the semantic relations used for4 This semantic relation is very close to the is a valueof/attributes relation used in WordNet.
We have changedits label in order to make it more straightforward to thecommon user.the definition of adjective clusters.
We arguethat conceptual opposition does not have to beexplicitly encoded in wordnets, since it is possi-ble to infer it from the combination of synonymyand antonymy relations (see Mendes (2006) formore details).Concerning relational adjectives, even thoughthey are also property ascribing adjectives, theyentail more complex and diversified relationsbetween the set of properties they introduce andthe modified noun, often pointing to the denota-tion of another noun (cf.
section 2).
We use theis related to relation to encode this.Therefore, the characterizes with regardto/can be characterized by and the antonymyrelations, for descriptive adjectives, and the isrelated to relation for relational adjectives, al-lows us to encode the basic features of these ad-jectives in computational relational lexica suchas wordnets, while making it possible to derivemembership to these classes from the relationsexpressed in the network.Another issue regarding adjectives is that theyhave a rather sparse net of relations.
We intro-duce a new relation to encode salient characteris-tics of nouns: is characteristic of/has as a char-acteristic to be.
These characteristics are oftenexpressed by adjectival expressions.
Although interms of lexical knowledge we can discuss thestatus of this relation, it regards crucial informa-tion for many wordnet-based applications,namely those using inference systems, allowingfor richer and clearer synsets.Also, it may allow for deducing semantic do-mains from the database, as it makes it possibleto identify the typical semantic domains of ap-plication of adjectives.
Research on the classesand semantic domains emerging from the rela-tions expressed in the database is still ongoing.Thus, the combination of these relations al-lows us to encode a less sparse net of adjectives.Besides the importance of having a more densenet from the point of view of wordnet-based ap-plications, as mentioned above, this is also cru-cial with regard to relational lexica such aswordnets themselves, as the meaning of eachunit is determined by the set of relations it holdswith other units.
Thus, a denser network of rela-tions allows for richer and clearer synsets.
Fig.
1illustrates this idea, presenting an example of theway adjectives are being encoded in Word-Net.PT.559Figure 1.
Fragment showing relations between adjectives and nouns54.2 Relating Adjectives and VerbsWe also introduce new semantic relations to en-code telic verbs in the database (on this issue seealso Marrafa, 2005; Amaro et al, 2006).As shown in section 2, the facts render evidentthat the representation of LCS deficitary telicverbs has to include information regarding thetelic expression.
Obviously, it would not be ade-quate to overtly include in the synset al the ex-pressions that can integrate the predicate, amongother reasons, because they seem to constitute anopen set.
Rather, we claim that we can capturethe telicity of these verbs by including a newrelation in the set of internal relations of word-nets: the telic sub-event relation, as exemplifiedbelow.
(13) {make} has_telic_sub-event    {state}{state}   is_telic_sub-event_of{make}5(defeasible)6Relating make to state by means of this rela-tion, we capture the telic properties of the verband let the specific nature of the final state un-derspecified.
This way, we also account for theweakness of the verb selection restrictions.
Asexpected, we can also use this relation to encodetelicity in the case of the troponyms of the classof verbs discussed in section 2.5Word senses presented here correspond to PrincetonWordNet synsets (2.1 version).6The relation is not obligatory in this direction.In these cases, we use the telic sub-event rela-tion to relate the verb to the expression corre-sponding to the incorporated telic information:(14) {sadden} has_telic_sub-event   {sad}{sad}       is_telic_sub-event of {sadden}(defeasable)The global solution is schematically pre-sented below:Figure 2.
Relations between adjectives and verbsAs shown, the telic sub-event relation straight-forwardly allows the encoding of lexical telicityin wordnets, in accordance with the empiricalevidence.It should be noticed that the existing sub-eventrelation in the EuroWordNet framework is dif-ferent from the relation proposed here.
It onlystands for lexical entailment involving temporalproper inclusion.
Therefore, it does not accountfor the geometry of the event.
On the contrary,the telic sub-event relation regards the atomicsub-event that is the ending point of the globalevent.
{make}{sadden}is hypernym of is hypernym of{state}{sad}has telic sub-eventis telic sub-event ofhas telic sub-eventis telic sub-event ofis antonym of(adj){young1}(adj){old1} is characteristic of characterizes with regard to  (n){age1}is hypernym of(n){kid5}(adj){alimentary1}(adj){caprine1}(adj){creeping1}(adj){biped1, two-footed1}(adj){quadruped1, four-footed1}is characteristic of(n){snake1}(n){snail1}(n){slug3}characterizes with regard to(n){locomotion1}(n){fare1,feeding1}characterizes with regard tocharacterizes with regard tois related to(adj){herbivorous1}(adj){carnivorous1}is near-antonym ofis characteristic of (n){ruminant1}is characteristic of(n){goat1}is hypernym ofis related to5605 Encoding adjectives in WordNet.PTAs previously mentioned, the proposal presentedin this paper is mainly concerned with the speci-fication of appropriate cross-POS relations toencode adjectives in computational relationallexica.In order to test whether the set of relationspresented here is appropriate and allows the en-coding of adjectives in wordnet-like lexica, wehave introduced a selection of Portuguese adjec-tives in WordNet.PT.In the first phase of the WordNet.PT projectmostly nouns were encoded in the database.Thus, we have mainly focused on the encodingof relations between adjectives and nouns7.
Ta-ble 1 presents the number of entries and relationsspecified at the present stage.total number of adjectives  1462synonymy relation 252antonymy relation 134near-antonymy relation 40is related to relation 331is characteristic of relation 1293characterizes with regard to relation 261total number of relations 2311Table1.
Statistics concerning the encoding ofadjectives in WordNet.PTBesides the discussion presented above, theimplemented data, being already a representativesample, show that the cross-POS relations pro-posed here effectively allow for a fine-grainedencoding of adjectives in relational lexica (spe-cifically in wordnet-like lexica) through thespecification of a denser network of relations.6 ConclusionIn this paper we argue that the semantics of ad-jectives can be appropriately captured in word-net-like lexica by means of the implementationof a small set of new relations, which have astrong linguistic motivation and preserve the co-herence of the model.We focus on property ascribing adjectives andwe distinguish between descriptive and rela-tional adjectives.
Besides the relevance of thisdichotomy, we also address the opposition be-tween accidental and permanent properties, asadjective association to certain kind of propertiesdetermines their syntactic and semantic behav-7Nevertheless, relations between adjectives and verbs arealready being implemented at the current stage.ior, namely with regard to secondary predication.Here, we model these distinctions in Word-Net.PT via cross-POS relations: characterizeswith regard to/can be characterized by to modeldescriptive adjectives introducing permanentproperties; has_telic_subevent/is_telic_subeventto model descriptive adjectives associated to ac-cidental properties; and the is related to to modelrelational adjectives.Moreover, we make apparent that increasingthe expressive power of the system has an impor-tant impact in precision concerning the specifica-tions of all POS, mainly induced by the cross-POS relations.This way, we provide a simple and integratedsolution for a complex and heterogeneous prob-lem.7 AcknowledgementsWe wish to thank Funda?
?o para a Ci?ncia eTecnologia who has partially funded the researchpresented in this paper (grantSFRH/BD/8524/2002).
We also have to thankInstituto Cam?es for the support it has been giv-ing to our research in computational relationallexica.ReferencesA.
Alonge, F. Bertagna, N. Calzolari, A. Roventiniand A. Zampoli.
2000.
Encoding information onadjectives in a lexical-semantic net for computa-tional applications.
Proceedings of NAACL 2000.Seattle, pp.
42-49.R.
Amaro, R. P. Chaves, P. Marrafa and S. Mendes.2006.
Enriching wordnets with new Relations andwith event and argument structures.
Proceedings ofCICLing 2006 ?
Conferences on ComputationalLinguistics and Intelligent Text Processing.
Mex-ico City, Mexico, pp.
28-40.G.
Carlson.
1977.
Reference to Kinds in English, PhDdissertation, University of Massachusetts-Amherst.G.
Chierchia and S. McConnel-Ginet.
1990.
Meaningand Grammar: an Introduction to Semantics,Cambridge, MA: The MIT Press.V.
Demonte.
1999.
El Adjectivo: classes y usos.
Laposici?n del adjectivo en el sintagma nominal.
in I.Bosque and V. Demonte (orgs.)
Gram?tica Des-criptiva de la Lengua Espa?ola.
volume 1.
Madrid:Espasa.EAGLES Lexicon Interest Group.
1998.
PreliminaryRecommendations on Semantic Encoding InterimReport.C.
Fellbaum, D. Gross and K. J. Millar.
1993.
Adjec-tives in WordNet.
in Miller et al, Five papers on561WordNet, Technical Report, Cognitive ScienceLaboratory, Princeton University, pp.
26?39.C.
Fellbaum.
1998 A Semantic Network of English:The Mother of all WordNets.
in P. Vossen (ed.
)EuroWordNet: A Multilingual Database with Lexi-cal Semantic Networks.
Dordrecht: Kluwer Aca-demic Publishers, pp.
137-148.B.
Hamp and H. Feldweg.
1997.
GermaNet ?
a Lexi-cal Semantic Net for German.
Proceedings of ACLworkshop on Automatic Information Extractionand Building of Lexical Semantic Resources forNLP Applications.
Madrid.A.
Lenci, N. Bel, F. Busa, N. Calzolari, E. Gola, M.Monachini, A. Ogonoski, I. Peters.
W. Peters, N.Ruimy, M. Villegas & A. Zampolli.
2000.
SIMPLE- A General Framework for the Development ofMultilingual Lexicons.
in T. Fontenelle (ed.)
Inter-national Journal of Lexicography.
volume 13. pp.249-263.
Oxford University Press.J.
N. Levi.
1978.
The Syntax and Semantic of complexnominals, New York: Academic Press.P.
Marrafa.
1993.
Predica?
?o Secund?ria ePredicados Complexos:  Modeliza?
?o e An?lise,PhD.
dissertation, Lisbon, University of Lisbon.P.
Marrafa.
2001.
WordNet do Portugu?s: uma basede dados de conhecimento lingu?stico, Lisboa:Instituto Cam?es.P.
Marrafa.
2002.
Portuguese WordNet: general archi-tecture and internal semantic relations.
D.E.L.T.A.,18.P.
Marrafa.
2004.
Modelling Constituency and Predi-cation in Portuguese.
Revista PaLavra.
volume 12(special issue: Lingu?stica Computacional), pp.106-118.P.
Marrafa.
2005.
The Representation of ComplexTelic Predicates in WordNets: the Case of Lexical-Conceptual Structure Deficitary Verbs.
Researchon Computing Science.
volume 12, pp.
109?116.P.
Marrafa, R. Amaro, R. P. Chaves, S. Lourosa, C.Martins and S. Mendes.
2006.
WordNet.PT new di-rections.
Proceedings of GWC?06: 3rd Interna-tional Wordnet Conference.
Jeju Island, Korea.S.
Mendes.
2006.
Adjectives in WordNet.PT.
Pro-ceedings of the GWA 2006 ?
Global WordNet As-sociation Conference.
Jeju Island, Korea.G.
A. Miller.
1990.
WordNet: an on-line Lexical Da-tabase.
Special Issue of International Journal ofLexicography.
volume 3, n?
4.K.
J. Miller.
1998.
Modifiers in WordNet.
in C. Fell-baum (ed.)
WordNet: an electronic lexical data-base.
Cambridge, MA: The MIT Press, pp.
47-68.G.
Milsark.
1974.
Existential Sentences in English.PhD dissertation, MIT.G.
Milsark.
1977.
Toward an Explanation of CertainPecularities of the Existencial Construction in Eng-lish.
Linguistic Analysis, 3, pp.
1-29.I.
Peters and W. Peters.
2000.
The Treatment of Ad-jectives in SIMPLE: Theoretical Observations.Proceedings of LREC 2000.J.
Pustejovsky.
1991.
The Syntax of Event Structure.Cognition, 41, pp.
47?81.P.
Vossen.
1998.
(ed.)
EuroWordNet: A MultilingualDatabase with Lexical Semantic Networks,Dordrecht: Kluwer Academic Publishers.562
