Proceedings of the COLING/ACL 2006 Main Conference Poster Sessions, pages 385?390,Sydney, July 2006. c?2006 Association for Computational LinguisticsWhen Conset meets Synset: A Preliminary Survey of an OntologicalLexical Resource based on Chinese CharactersShu-Kai HsiehInstitute of LinguisticsAcademia SinicaTaipei, Taiwanshukai@gate.sinica.edu.twChu-Ren HuangInstitute of LinguisticsAcademia SinicaTaipei, Taiwanchuren@gate.sinica.edu.twAbstractThis paper describes an on-going projectconcerning with an ontological lexical re-source based on the abundant conceptualinformation grounded on Chinese charac-ters.
The ultimate goal of this project is setto construct a cognitively sound and com-putationally effective character-groundedmachine-understandable resource.Philosophically, Chinese ideogram has itsontological status, but its applicability tothe NLP task has not been expressed ex-plicitly in terms of language resource.
Wethus propose the first attempt to locate Chi-nese characters within the context of on-tology.
Having the primary success in ap-plying it to some NLP tasks, we believethat the construction of this knowledge re-source will shed new light on theoreticalsetting as well as the construction of Chi-nese lexical semantic resources.1 IntroductionIn the history of western linguistics, writing haslong been viewed as a surrogate or substitute forspeech, the latter being the primary vehicle for hu-man communication.
Such ?surrogational model?which neglects the systematicity of writing inits own right has also occupied the predominantviews in current computational linguistic studies.This paper is set to provide a quite different per-spective along with the Eastern philological tra-dition of the study of scripts, especially the ideo-graphic one i.e., Chinese characters (Hanzi).
Webelieve that the conceptual knowledge informationwhich has been grounded on Chinese characterscan be used as a cognitively sound and compu-tationally effective ontological lexical resource inperforming some NLP tasks, and it will have con-tribution to the development of Semantic Web aswell.2 Background Issues of ChineseIdeographic Writing2.1 Ideographic Script and ConceptualKnowledgeFrom the view of writing system and cognition,human conceptual information has been regardedas being wired in ideographic scripts.
However, inreviewing the contemporary linguistic literaturesconcerning with the discussions of the essence ofChinese writing system, we found that the maintheoretical dispute lies in the fact that, both struc-tural descriptions and psycholinguistic modelingseem to presume that the notions of ideographyand phonography are mutually exclusive.To break the theoretical impasse?, we take apragmatic position in claiming the tripartite prop-erties of Chinese characters: They are logographic(morpho-syllabic) in essence, function phonologi-cally at the same time, and can be interpreted ideo-graphically and implemented as concept instancesby computers.2.2 Chinese WordhoodRoughly put, a Chinese character is regarded asan ideographic symbol representing syllable andmeaning of a ?morpheme?
in spoken Chinese.But unlike most affixing languages, Chinese hasa large class ofmorphemes - which Packard (2000)calls ?bound roots?
- that possess certain affixalproperties (namely, they are bound and productivein forming words), but encode lexical rather than385grammatical information.
These may occur as ei-ther the left- or right-hand component of a word.For example, the morpheme ?
(/shu/; ?transport?
)can be used as either the first morpheme (e.g., ??
(/yu`n-ru`/; transport-into ?import?
), or the secondmorpheme (e.g., ??
/yu`n-shu/; transit-transport?conveyance?)
of a dissyllabic word, but cannotoccur in isolation.The fuzzy boundary between free and boundmorphemes is directly related to the notori-ous controversial notion of Chinese Wordhood.There are multiple studies showing that to alarge extent, (trained or untrained) native speak-ers of Chinese disagree on what a (free) mor-pheme/word/compound is.Such difficulty could be traced back to its histor-ical facts.
In modern Mandarin Chinese, there is astrong tendency toward dissyllabic words, whilethe predominant monosyllabic words in ancientChinese remain more or less a closed set.
Butthe conceptual knowledge encoded in monosyl-labic morphemes still have their influence even oncontemporary texts, and thus resulting the difficul-ties of word-marking decision.3 Theoretical SettingYu et al(1999) reported that a Morpheme Knowl-edge Base of Modern Chinese according to all Chi-nese characters in GB2312-80 code has been con-structed by the institute of Computational Linguis-tics of Peking University.
This Morpheme Knowl-edge Base has been later integrated into the projectcalled ?Grammatical Knowledge Base of Contem-porary Chinese?.It is noted that the ?morphemes?
adopted in thisdatabase are monosyllabic ?bound morphemes?.As for ?free morphemes?, that is, characters whichcan be independently used as words, are not in-cluded in the Knowledge Base.
For example,the monosyllabic character ?
(/shu/,?comb?)
has(at least) two senses.
For the verbal sense (?tocomb?
), it can be used as a word; for the nomi-nal sense (?a comb?
), it can only be used in com-bining with other morphemes.
Therefore, only thenominal sense of ?
is included in the KnowledgeBase.
However, such morpheme-based approachcan hardly escape from facing with the difficultdecision of free/bound distinction in contemporaryChinese.3.1 Hanzi/Word Space ModelBased on the consideration mentioned above, inthis paper, we will propose a historical, conven-tionalized, pre-theoretical perspective in viewingthe lexical and knowledge information within Chi-nese characters.
In Figure 1, (a) illustrates a naiveHanzi space, while (d) shows a linguistic theory-laden result of Hanzi/Word space, where green ar-eas denote to words, consisting of 1 to 4 char-acters.
The decision of words (green) and non-words (white) in the space is based on certain per-spectives (be it psycholinguistic or computationallinguistic).
Instead, we take the traditional philo-logical construct of Hanzi into consideration.
Byanalyzing the conceptual relations between char-acters (b) which scatter among diverse lexical re-sources, we construct an top-level ontology withHanzi as its instances (c).
Rather than (a) ?
(d),which is a predominant approach in contempo-rary linguistic theoretical construction of ChineseWordhood, we believe that the proposed approach(a) ?
(b) ?
(c) ?
(d) could not only enclosethe implicit conceptual information evolutionarilyencoded in Chinese characters, but also provide amore clear knowledge scenario for the interactionof characters/words in modern linguistic theoreti-cal setting.3.2 Conset and Character OntologyThe new model that we propose here is calledHanziNet.
It relies on a novel notion called con-set and a coarsely grained upper-level ontologyof characters.In comparison with synset, which has becomea core notion in the construction of Wordnet-likelexical semantic resources, we will argue that thereis a crucial difference between Word-based lexi-cal resource and character-based lexical resource,in that they rest with finely-differentiated informa-tion contents represented by the nodes of network.A synset, or synonym set in WordNet contains agroup of words,1 and each of which is synony-mous with the other words in the same synset.In WordNet?s design, each synset can be viewedas a concept in a taxonomy, While in HanziNet,we are seeking to align Hanzi which share a givenputatively primitive meaning extracted from tradi-tional philological resources, so a new term con-set (concept set) is proposed.
A conset contains1To put it exactly, it contains a group of lexical units,which can be words or collocations.386(a) (b) (c) (d)Figure 1: Illustrations of Hanzi/Word Spacesa group of Chinese characters similar in concept,and each of which shares with similar conceptualinformation with the other characters in the sameconset.2The relations between consets constitute a char-acter ontology.
Formally, it is a tree-structuredconceptual taxonomy in terms of which only twokinds of relations are allowed: the INSTANCE-OF(i.e., characters are instances of consets) and IS-A relations (i.e., consets are hypernyms/hyponymsto other consets).Currently, frequently used monosyllabic char-acters are assigned to at least one of 309 consets.Following are some examples:conset 126 (SUBJECTIVE ?
EXCITABILITY ?
ABILITY ?
ORGANICFUNCTION)??
??????????????
?,conset 130 (SUBJECTIVE?
EXCITABILITY?
ABILITY?
SKILLS)????????????
?,conset 133 (SUBJECTIVE?
EXCITABILITY?
ABILITY?
INTELLECT)????????????
?,In fact, the core assumption behind thesynset/conset distinction is non-trivial.
In thisproject, we assume a hypothesis of the localityof Concept Gestalt and the context-sensibility ofWord Sense concerning with Chinese characters.That is, characters carry two meaning dimensions:on the one hand, they are lexicalized concepts;2At the time of writing, about 3,600 characters have beenfinished in their information construction.on the other hands, they can be observed lin-guistically as bound root morphemes and mono-morphemic words according to their independentusage in modern Chinese texts.Figure 2 shows a schematic diagram of our pro-posed model.
In Aitchison?s (2003) terms, for thecharacter level, we take an ?atomic globule?
net-work viewpoint, where the characters - realized asinstances of core concept Gestalt - which sharesimilar conceptual information, cluster together.The relationships between these concept Gestaltform a rooted tree structure.
Characters are thusassigned to the leaves of the tree in terms of anassemblage of bits.
For the word level, we takethe ?cobweb?
viewpoint, as words -built up froma pool of characters- are connected to each otherthrough lexical semantic relations.
In such case,the network does not form a tree structure but amore complex, long-range highly-correlated ran-dom acyclic graphic structure.4 Hanzi-grounded OntologicalCharacterNetIn light of the previous consideration, this sec-tion attempts to further clarify the building blocksof the HanziNet system, ?
a Hanzi-grounded on-tological Character Net ?
with the goal to ar-rive at a working model which will serve as aframework for ontological knowledge processing.Briefly, HanziNet is consisted of two main parts:387Figure 2: The Schematic Representation ofcharacter-triggered tree-like conceptual hierarchyand word-based semantic networka character-stored machine-readable lexicon and atop-level character ontology.4.1 Hanzi-grounded Lexicon and OntologyThe current lexicon contains over 5000 characters,and 30,000 derived words in total.3The building of the lexical specification of theentries in HanziNet includes various aspects ofHanzi:1.
Conset(s): The conceptual code is the corepart of the MRD lexicon in HanziNet.
Con-cepts in HanziNet are indicated by meansof a label (conset name) with a code form.In order to increase the efficiency, an idealstrategy is to adopt the Huffmann-coding-likemethod, by encoding the conceptual structureof Hanzi as a pattern of bits set within a bitstring.4 The coding thus refers to the assign-ment of code sequences to an character.
Thesequence of edges from the root to any char-acter yields the code for that character, andthe number of bits varies from one characterto another.
Currently, for each conset (309 intotal) there are 12 characters assigned on theaverage; for each character, it is assigned to3Since this lexicon aims at establishing an knowl-edge resource for modern Chinese NLP, charactersand words are mostly extracted from the AcademiaSinica Balanced Corpus of Modern Chinese(http://www.sinica.edu.tw/SinicaCorpus/), those charac-ters and words which have probably only appeared inclassical literary works, (considered ghost words in thelexicography), will be discarded.4This is inspired by Chu (1999)?s works.2-3 consets on the average.52.
Character Semantic Head (CSH) and Char-acter Semantic Modifier (CSM) division.63.
Shallow parts of speech (mainly Nominal(N)and Verbal(V) tags)4.
Gloss of prototypical meaning5.
List of combined words with statistics calcu-lated from corpus, and6.
Further aspects such as character types andcognates: According to ancient study, char-acters can be compartmentalized into sixgroups based on the six classical principles ofcharacter construction.
Character type heremeans which group the character belongs to.And the term cognate here is defined as char-acters that share the same CSH or CSM.
Fig-ure 3 shows a snapshot of this lexicon.Figure 3: The character-stored lexicon: a snapshotThe second core component of the proposed re-source is a set of hierarchically related Top Con-cepts called Top-level Ontology (or Upper ontol-ogy).
This is similar to EuroWordnet 1.2, which is5The disputing point here is that, if some of the mono-syllabic morphemes are taken as words, they should be veryambiguous in the daily linguistic context, at least more am-biguous than the dissyllabic words.
However, as we arguedpreviously, HanziNet takes a different perspective in locatingtheoretical roles of Hanzi.6This distinction is made based on the glyphographicalconsideration, which has been a crucial topic in the studies oftraditional Chinese scriptology.
Due to the limited space, thiswill not be discussed here.388also enriched with the Top Ontology and the set ofBase Concepts (Vossen 1998).As mentioned, a tentative set of 309 conset,a kind of ontological categories in contrast withsynset has been proposed 7, and over 5000 charac-ters have been used as instances in populating thecharacter ontology.Methodologically, following the basic line ofOntoClear approach (Guarino and Welty (2002)),we use simple monotonic inheritance in our ontol-ogy design, which means that each node inheritsproperties only from a single ancestor, and the in-herited value cannot be overwritten at any point ofthe ontology.
The decision to keep the relationsto one single parent was made in order to guaran-tee that the structure would be able to grow indef-initely and still be manageable, i.e.
that the tran-sitive quality of the relations between the nodeswould not degenerate with size.
Figure 4 shows asnapshot of the character ontology.ROOTOBJSUBJCONCRETEABSTRACTEXISTENCEARTIFACTEXCITABLECOGNITIVESEMIOTICRELATIONALSENSATIONSTATEINNATESOCIALconset 1conset 309conset 2conset 3------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------conset 308conset 307{????????????}{????????????}{???????????}------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------{???}{????????????????}{??????????????
}Figure 4: The character ontology: a snapshot4.2 Characters in a Small WorldIn addition, an experiment concerning the char-acter network that was based on the meaning as-pects of characters, was performed from a statisti-cal point of view.
It was found that this characternetwork, like many other linguistic semantic net-works (such as WordNet), exhibits a small-worldproperty (Watt 1998), characterized by sparse con-nectivity, small average shortest paths betweencharacters, and strong local clustering.
Moreover,due to its dynamic property, it appears to exhibitan asymptotic scale-free (Barabasi 1999) feature7It would be interesting to compare consets with the basic400 nodes in the upper region proposed by Hovy(2005).Table 1: Statistical characteristics of the char-acter network: N is the total number ofnodes(characters), k is the average number of linksper node, C is the clustering coefficient, and L isthe average shortest-path length, and Lmax is themaximum length of the shortest path between apair of characters in the network.N k C LActual configuration 6493 350 0.64 2.0Random configuration 6493 350 0.06 1.5with the connectivity of power laws distribution,which is found in many other network systems aswell.Our first result is that our proposed conceptualnetwork is highly clustered and at the same timeand has a very small length, i.e., it is a smallworld model in the static aspect.
Specifically,L & Lrandom but C  Crandom.
Results for thenetwork of characters, and a comparison with acorresponding random network with the same pa-rameters are shown in Table 1.
N is the total num-ber of nodes (characters), k is the average numberof links per node, C is the clustering coefficient,and L is the average shortest path.4.3 HanziNet in the Global Wordnet GridIn order to promote a semantic and ontologicalinteroperability, we have aligned conset with the164 Base Concepts, a shared set of concepts fromEWN in terms of Wordnet synsets and SUMOdefinitions, which has been currently proposed inthe international collaborative platform of GlobalWordnet Grid.5 Applications and Future Development5.1 Sense Prediction and DisambiguationBased on the initial version of the proposed re-sources, Hsieh (2005b) has proposed a semanticclass prediction model which aims to gain the pos-sible semantic classes of unknown two-characterswords.
The results obtained shows that, with thisknowledge resource, the system can achieve fairlyhigh level of performance.
Meaning relevant NLPTasks such asWord Sense Disambiguation are alsoin preparation.3895.2 Interfacing Hantology, HanziNet andChinese WordnetInterfacing ontologies and lexical resources hasbeen a research topic in the coming age of se-mantic web.
In the case of Chinese, three existinglexical resources (?
?Radicals::Hantology (Chouand Huang (2005))- ?
Characters::HanziNet -?
Words::Chinese Wordnet) constitutes an inte-grated 3-level knowledge scenario which wouldprovide important insights into the problems ofunderstanding the complexities and its interactionwith Chinese natural language.6 ConclusionIn conclusion, the goal of this research is setto survey the unique characteristics of ChineseIdeographs.Though it has been well understood and agreedupon in cognitive linguistics that concepts can berepresented in many ways, using various construc-tions at different syntactical levels, conceptual rep-resentation at the script level has been unfortu-nately both undervalued and under-represented incomputational linguistics.
Therefore, the Hanzi-driven conceptual approach in this thesis might re-quire that we consider the Chinese writing systemfrom a perspective that is not normally found incanonical treatments of writing systems in con-temporary linguistics.Against the deep-seated tradition in contempo-rary Chinese linguistics, which views the use ofChinese characters in scientific theories as a mani-festation of mathematical immaturity and interpre-tational subjectivity, we propose the first lexicalknowledge resource based on Chinese charactersin the field of linguistic as well as in the NLP.It is noted that HanziNet, as a general knowl-edge resource, should not claim to be a sufficientknowledge resource in and of itself, but insteadseek to provide a groundwork for the incremen-tal integration of other knowledge resources forlanguage processing tasks.
In order to augmentHanziNet, additional information will needed tobe incorporated and mapped into HanziNet.
Thisleads us to several avenues of future research.AcknowledgementsThe authors would like to thank the anonymousreferees for constructive comments.
Thanks alsogo to the institute of linguistics of AcademiaSinica for their kindly data support.ReferencesAitchison, Jean.
2003.
Words in the mind: an introduc-tion to the mental lexicon.
Blackwell publishing.Barabasi, Albert-Laszlo and Reka Albert.
1999.
Emer-gence of scaling in random networks.
Science,286:509-512.Chou, Ya-Min and Chu-Ren Huang.
2005.
Hantology:An ontology based on conventionalized conceptual-ization.
OntoLex Workshop, Korea.Chu, Bong-Foo.
1999-. http://www.cbflabs.comGuarino, Nicola and Chris Welty.
2002.
Evaluating on-tological decisions with OntoClean.
In: Communi-cations of the ACM.
45(2):61-65Hovy, E.H. 2005.
Methodologies for the Reliable Con-struction of Ontological Knowledge.
In : F. Dau,M.-L. Mugnier, and G. Stumme (eds), ConceptualStructures: Common Semantics for Sharing Knowl-edge.
Proceedings of the 13th Annual InternationalConference on Conceptual Structures (ICCS 2005).Kassel, Germany.Hsieh, Shu-Kai.
2005(a).
HanziNet: An enrichedconceptual network of Chinese characters.
The 5rdworkshop on Chinese lexical semantics, China: Xi-amen.Hsieh, Shu-Kai.
2005(b).
Word Meaning Inducing viaCharacter Ontology.
IJINLP, SIGHAN Workshop,Jijeu Island, South Korea.Packard, J. L. 2000.
The morphology of Chinese.
Cam-bridge, UK: Cambridge University Press.Steyvers, M. and Tenenbaum, J.B. 2002 The Large-Scale Structure of Semantic Networks: StatisticalAnalyses and a Model of Semantic Growth.
Cog-nitive Science.Watts, D. J. and Strogatz, S. H. 1998.
Collective dy-namics of ?small-world?
networks.
Nature 393:440-42.Yu, Shiwen, Zhu Xuefeng and Li Feng.
1999.
The de-velopment and application of modern Chinese mor-pheme knowledge base.
[in Chinese].
In: ?????
?, No.2.
pp38-45.390
