Proceedings of the COLING/ACL 2006 Interactive Presentation Sessions, pages 37?40,Sydney, July 2006. c?2006 Association for Computational LinguisticsChinese Named Entity and Relation Identification SystemTianfang YaoDepartment of Computer Science andEngineeringShanghai Jiao Tong UniversityShanghai, 200030, Chinayao-tf@cs.sjtu.edu.cnHans UszkoreitDepartment of Computational Linguistics andPhoneticsSaarland UniversitySaarbr?cken, 66041, Germanyuszkoreit@coli.uni-sb.deAbstractIn this interactive presentation, a Chinesenamed entity and relation identificationsystem is demonstrated.
The domain-specific system has a three-stage pipelinearchitecture which includes word seg-mentation and part-of-speech (POS) tag-ging, named entity recognition, andnamed entity relation identitfication.
Theexperimental results have shown that theaverage F-measure for word segmenta-tion and POS tagging after correcting er-rors achieves 92.86 and 90.01 separately.Moreover, the overall average F-measurefor 6 kinds of name entities and 14 kindsof named entity relations is 83.08% and70.46% respectively.1 IntroductionThe investigation for Chinese information ex-traction is one of the topics of the project COL-LATE (DFKI, 2002) dedicated to building up theGerman Competence Center for Language Tech-nology.
The presented work aims at investigatingautomatic identification of Chinese named enti-ties (NEs) and their relations in a specific domain.Information Extraction (IE) is an innovativelanguage technology for accurately acquiringcrucial information from documents.
NE recog-nition is a fundamental IE task, that detects somenamed constituents in sentences, for instancenames of persons, places, organizations, dates,times, and so on.
Based on NE recognition, theidentification of Named Entity Relation (NER)can indicate the types of semantic relationshipsbetween identified NEs.
e.g., relationships be-tween person and employed organization; personand residing place; person and birthday; organi-zation and seat, etc.
The identified results forNEs and NERs can be provided as a resource forother application systems such as question-answering system.
Therefore, these two IE tasksare selected as our investigation emphases.Chinese has a very different structure fromwestern languages.
For example, it has a largecharacter set involving more than 48,000 charac-ters; there is no space between words in writtentexts; and Chinese words have fewer inflections,etc.
In the past twenty years there have been sig-nificant achievements in IE concerning westernlanguages such as English.
Comparing with that,the research on the relevant properties of Chinesefor IE, especially for NER, is still insufficient.Our research focuses on domain-specific IE.We picked the sports domain, particularly, textson soccer matches because the number and typesof entities, relations and linguistic structures arerepresentative for many applications.Based on the motivations above mentioned,our goals for the design and implementation ofthe prototype system called CHINERIS (ChineseNamed Entity and Relation Identification System)are:?
Establishing an IE computational modelfor Chinese web texts using hybrid tech-nologies, which should to a great extentmeet the requirements of IE for Chineseweb texts;?
Implementing a prototype system basedon this IE computational model, whichextracts information from Chinese webtexts as accurately and quickly as possi-ble;?
Evaluating the performance of this sys-tem in a specific domain.372 System DesignIn the model, the IE processing is divided intothree stages: (i) word segmentation and part-of-speech (POS) tagging; (ii) NE recognition; (iii)NER identification.
Figure 1 demonstrates a Chi-nese IE computational model comprised of thesethree stages.
Each component in the system cor-Figure 1.
A three-sresponds to a stage.tage Chinese IE computa-In general, the e first stage hascoedial., 2000).Thication performance forNdefined a hierarchical tax-onmentationDuring the implementation, object-oriented de-sign and programming methods are thoroughlytional model.accuracy of thnsiderable influence on the performance of theconsequent two stages.
It has been demonstratedby our experiments (Yao et al, 2002).
In order toreduce unfavorable influence, we utilize a train-able approach (Brill, 1995) to automatically gen-erate effective rules, by which the first compo-nent can repair different errors caused by wordsegmentation and POS tagging.At the second stage, there are two kinds of NEconstructions to be processed (Yao et al, 2003).One is the NEs which involve trigger words; theother those without trigger words.
For the formerNEs, a shallow parsing mechanism, i.e., finite-state cascades (FSC) (Abney, 1996) which areautomatically constructed by sets of NE recogni-tion rules, is adopted for reliably identifying dif-ferent categories of NEs.
For the latter NEs,however, some special strategies, such as thevalence constraints of domain verbs, the con-stituent analysis of NE candidates, the globalcontext clues and the analysis for prepositionobjects etc., are designed for identifying them.After the recognition for NEs, NER identifica-tion is performed in the last stage.
Because of thversity and complexity of NERs, at the sametime, considering portability requirement in theidentification, we suggest a novel supervisedmachine learning approach called positive andnegative case-based learning (PNCBL) used inthis stage (Yao and Uszkoreit, 2005).The learning in this approach is a variant ofmemory-based learning (Daelemans ete goal of that is to capture valuable informa-tion from NER and non-NER patterns, which isimplicated in different features.
Because not allfeatures we predefine are necessary for eachNER or non-NER, we should select them by areasonable measure mode.
According to the se-lection criterion we propose - self-similarity,which is a quantitative measure for the concen-trative degree of the same kind of NERs or non-NERs in the corresponding pattern library, theeffective feature sets - General-Character Feature(GCF) sets for NERs and Individual-CharacterFeature (ICF) sets for non-NERs are built.
More-over, the GCF and ICF feature weighting serveas a proportion determination of feature?s degreeof importance for identifying NERs against non-NERs.
Subsequently, identification thresholdscan also be determined.Therefore, this approach pursues the im-provement of the identifERs by simultaneously learning two oppositecases, automatically selecting effective multi-level linguistic features from a predefined featureset for each NER and non-NER, and optimallymaking an identification tradeoff.
Further, twoother strategies, resolving relationship conflictsand inferring missing relationships, are also inte-grated in this stage.Considering the actual requirements for do-main knowledge, weomy and constructed conceptual relationshipsamong Object, Movement and Property conceptcategories under the taxonomy in a lexical sportsontology (Yao, 2005).
Thus, this ontology can beused for the recognition of NEs with special con-structions - without trigger words, the determina-tion of NE boundaries, and the provision of fea-ture values as well as the computation of the se-mantic distance for two concepts during the iden-tification of NERs.3 System ImpleWord Seg.
andPOS Tag.NERecognitionNERIdentificationError RepairResourcesTexts from Internet or DiskWord Seg.
andPOS Tag.ResourcesTexts with Word Seg.and POS TagsNER Identi-ficationResourcesNE-Recognized TextsNE Recogni-tionResourcesLexicalOntologyNER-Identified Texts38used in the system development.
In order toeriments for testingthree components.
Table 1 shows the experimen-r f these compo-avoid repeated development, we integrate otherapplication system and resource, e.g., ModernChinese Word Segmentation and POS TaggingSystem (Liu, 2000) and HowNet (Dong andDong, 2000) into the system.
Additionally, weutilize Prot?g?-2000 (version 1.9) (StanfordMedical Informatics, 2003) as a developmentenvironment for the implementation of lexicalsports ontology.The prototype system CHINERIS has beenimplemented in Java.
The system can automati-cally identify 6 types of NEs1 and 14 types ofNERs 2  in the sports domain.
Furthermore, itsrun-time efficiency is acceptable and the systemuser interfaces are friendly.4 Testing and EvaluationWe have finished three exptal esults for the performance onents.Stage Task (Total ) Ave.
Rec.(Total)Ave.
Pre.(Total)Ave.
F-MWord Seg.
95.08 90.74 92.861stPOS Tag.
92.39 87.75 90.012nd N  E Ident.
83.38 82.79 83.083rd  NER Ident.
78.50 63.92 70.46Table 1.
Performance for the Sy  CHINERIS.In the first experiment, the training set consistsof 94 texts including 3473 sentences collectedstemfrom the soccer matches of the Jie Fang Daily(http://www.jfdaily.com/) in 2001.
During man-ual error-correction, we adopted a double-personannotation method.
After training, we obtain er-ror repair rules.
They can repair at least one errorin the training corpus.
The rules in the rule li-brary are ranked according to the errors they cor-rect.
The testing set is a separate set that contains20 texts including 658 sentences.
The texts in theentity identification which in-cling learning.
Theyha1 Personal Name (PN); Date or Time (DT); Location Name(LN); Team Name (TN); Competition Title (CT); PersonalIdentity (PI).2 Person ?
Team (PS_TM); Person ?
Competition(PS_CP); Person ?
City / Province / Country (PS_CPC);Person ?
Identification (PS_ID); Home Team ?
VisitingTeam (HT_VT); Winning Team ?
Losing Team (WT_LT);Draw Team ?
Draw Team (DT_DT); Team ?
Competi-tion (TM_CP); Team ?
City / Province / Country(TM_CPC); Identification ?
Team (ID_TM); Competition?
Date (CP_DA); Competition ?
Time (CP_TI); Competi-tion ?
Location (CP_LOC); Location ?
City / Province /Country (LOC_ CPC).testing set have been randomly chosen from theJie Fang Daily from May 2002.
In the testing, theusage of error repair rules with context con-straints has priority over those without contextconstraints, and the usage of error repair rules forword segmentation has priority over those forPOS tagging.
Through experimental observation,this processing sequence can ensure that the rulesrepair many more errors.
On the other hand, itcan prevent new errors occurring during the re-pair of existing errors.
The results indicate thatafter the correction, the average F-measure ofword segmentation has increased from 87.75 %to 92.86%; while that of POS tagging has evenincreased from 77.47% to 90.01%.
That is to say,the performance of both processes has been dis-tinctly enhanced.In the second experiment, we utilize the sametesting set for the error repair component tocheck the namedudes regular and special entity constructions.The rule sets provided for TN, CT, and PI recog-nition have 35, 50, and 20 rules respectively.
Inlexical sports ontology, there are more than 350domain verbs used for the identification of TNwith special constructions.
Among six NEs, theaverage F-measure of DT, PI, and CT exceeds85%.
Therefore, it specifies that the identifica-tion performance of named entities after addingthe special recognition strategies in this compo-nent has reached a good level.In the third experiment, both pattern librariesare established in terms of the annotated textsand lexical sports ontology durve 142 (534 NERs) and 98 (572 non-NERs)sentence groups respectively.
To test the per-formance of our approach, we randomly choose32 sentence groups from the Jie Fang Daily in2002 (these sentence groups are out of eitherNER or non-NER pattern library), which em-body 117 different NER candidates.
Table 1shows the total average recall, precision, and F-measure for 14 different NERs by positive andnegative case-based learning and identification.Among 14 types of NERs, the highest total aver-age F-measure is 95.65 from the relationLOC_CPC and the lowest total average F-measure is 34.09 from TM_CPC.
The total aver-age F-measure is 70.46.
In addition, we alsocompared the performance between the total av-erage recall, precision, and F-measure for allNERs only by positive and by positive and nega-tive case-based learning and identification sepa-rately.
It shows the total average F-measure isenhanced from 63.61% to 70.46% as a whole,39due to the adoption of both positive and negativecases.From the result, we also realize that the selec-tion of relation features is critical.
First, theyshould be selected from multiple linguistic levels,e.gap effective for Chinese namedy cation in sports domain.woconstraintsysitEs, identi-ficsuccessful for the sample ap-plis a part of the COLLATE project un-01B, which is supportedry for Education and Re-search.g Workshop, pages 8-15.
Prague, Czech Re-Transformation-Based Error-DrivenW ans, A. Bosch, J. Zavrel, K. Van der Sloot,Netherlands.DFZ.
wNet.K.T.
.
Ding, and G. Erbach.
2002.
Correcting29-36.T.
),T.., morphology, syntax and semantics.
Second,they should also embody the crucial informationof Chinese language processing, such as wordorder, the context of words, and particles etc.Moreover, the proposed self-similarity is a rea-sonable measure for selecting GCF and ICF forNERs and non-NERs identification respectively.5 ConclusionThis three-stage IE prototype system CHINERISis propriate andentit  and relation identifiIn the first component, it is a beneficial explo-ration to develop an error repairer which simul-taneously enhances the performance of Chineserd segmentation and POS tagging.In the second component, we theoretically ex-tend the original definition of Finite State Auto-mata (FSA), that is, we use complexmbols rather than atomic constraint symbols.With this extension, we improve the practicabil-ity for the FSC mechanism.
At the same time, thenew issue for automatically constructing FSCalso increases the flexibility of its maintenance.In order to improve the NE identification per-formance, some special strategies for the identi-fication of NEs without trigger words are addedin this stage, which cannot be recognized by FSC.In the third component, automatically select-ing effectual multi-level linguistic features foreach NER and non-NER and learning two oppo-e types of cases simultaneously are two inno-vative points in the PNCBL approach.The lexical sports ontology plays an importantrole in the identification of NEs and NERs, suchas determination of the boundary of Nation for NE with special constructons andcalculation of similarity for the features (e.g.
se-mantic distance).The experimental results for the three compo-nents in the prototype system show that the sys-tem CHINERIS isication.AcknowledgementThis workder contract no.
01INAby the German MinistReferencesS.
Abney.
1996.
Partial Parsing via Finite-State Cas-cades.
In Proceedings of the ESSLLI ?96 RobustParsinpublic.E.
Brill.
1995.Learning and Natural Language  Processing: ACase Study in Part of Speech Tagging.
Computa-tional Linguistics, 21(4): 543-565.. Daelemand A. Vanden Bosch.
2000.
TiMBL: TilburgMemory Based Learner, Version 3.0, ReferenceGuide.
Technical Report ILK-00-01, ILK, TilburgUniversity.
Tilburg, Thehttp://ilk.kub.nl/~ilk/papers/ilk0001.ps.gz.KI.
2002.
COLLATE: Computational Linguisticsand Language Technology for Real Life Applica-tions.
DFKI, Saarbr?cken, Germany.http://collate.dfki.
de/.Dong and Q. Dong.
2000.
Hohttp://www.keenage.com/zhiwang/e_zhiwang.html.Liu.
2000.
Automatic Segmentation and Taggingfor Chinese Text.
The Commercial Press.
Beijing,China.Stanford Medical Informatics.
2003.
The Prot?g?
On-tology Editor and Knowledge Acquisition System.The School of Medicine, Stanford University.Stanford, USA.
http://protege.stanford.edu/.Yao, WWord Segmentation and Part-of-Speech TaggingErrors for Chinese Named Entity Recognition.
In G.Hommel and H. Sheng, editors, The Internet Chal-lenge: Technology and Applications, pagesKluwer Academic Publishers.
The Netherlands.Yao, W. Ding and G. Erbach.
2003.
CHINERS: AChinese Named Entity Recognition System for theSports Domain.
In: Proc.
of the Second SIGHANWorkshop on Chinese Language Processing (ACL2003 Workshop), pages 55-62.
Sapporo, Japan.T.
Yao and H. Uszkoreit.
2005.
A Novel MachineLearning Approach for the Identification of NamedEntity Relations.
In: Proc.
of the Workshop on Fea-ture Engineering for Machine Learning in NaturalLanguage Processing (ACL 2005 Workshoppages 1-8.
Michigan, USA.Yao.
2005.
A Lexical Ontology for Chinese Infor-mation Extraction.
In M. Sun and Q. Chen, editors,Proc.
of the 8th National Joint Symposium onComputational Linguistics (JSCL-2005), pages241-246.
Nanjing, China.40
