Proceedings of the COLING/ACL 2006 Student Research Workshop, pages 67?72,Sydney, July 2006. c?2006 Association for Computational LinguisticsFocus to Emphasize Tone Structures for Prosodic Analysis in SpokenLanguage GenerationLalita NarupiyakulFaculty of Computer Science, Dalhousie University6050 University Avenue, Halifax, Nova Scotia, Canada B3H 1W5Tel.
+1-902-494-6441, Fax.
+1-902-494-3962lalita@cs.dal.caAbstractWe analyze the concept of focus in speechand the relationship between focus andspeech acts for prosodic generation.
Wedetermine how the speaker?s utterances areinfluenced by speaker?s intention.
The re-lationship between speech acts and focusinformation is used to define which partsof the sentence serve as the focus parts.We propose the Focus to Emphasize Tones(FET) structure to analyze the focus com-ponents.
We also design the FET grammarto analyze the intonation patterns and pro-duce tone marks as a result of our anal-ysis.
We present a proof-of-the-conceptworking example to validate our proposal.More comprehensive evaluations are partof our current work.1 IntroductionA speaker?s utterance may convey different mean-ing to a hearer.
Such ambiguities can be resolvedby emphasizing accents in different positions.
Fo-cus information is needed to select correct posi-tions for accent information.
To determine fo-cus information, a speaker?s intentions must berevealed.
We apply speech act theory to writtensentences, our input, to determine a speaker?s in-tention.
Subsequently our system will produce aspeaker utterance, the result of analysis.Several research publications, such as (Steed-man and Prevost, 1994) and (Klein, 2000), ex-plore prosodic analysis for spoken language gen-eration (SLG).
Klein (2000) designs constraintsfor prosodic structures in the HPSG framework.His approach is based on an isomorphism ofsyntactic and prosodic trees.
This approachis heavily syntax-driven and involves makingprosodic trees by manipulation of the syntactictrees.
This approach results in increased complex-ity since the type hierarchy of phrases must cross-classify prosodic phrases under syntactic phrases.Haji-Abdolhosseini (2003) extended Klein?s ap-proach.
Rather than referring to syntax, Haji-Abdolhosseini sets the information domain to in-teract between the syntactic-semantic domain andthe prosodic domain.
His work reduces the com-plexity of type hierarchies and constraints whichare not related to the syntactic structure.
He de-signs the information structure and defines con-straints for the HPSG framework.
However hiswork limits the number of tone selections becausehe only defines two tone marks: rise-fall-rise andfall to annotate a sentence.Our work is inspired by Haji-Abdolhosseini?swork.
We design the focus structure for spo-ken language generation.
Based on the focus the-ory (Von Heusinger, 1999), the focus part identi-fies what part of the sentence can be marked withthe strong accent or emphasized by a high tone.By analyzing speech acts, we can understand howspeech with prosody can convey distinct speakerintentions to a hearer.
In the next section, wepresent an overview of our FET (Focus to Empha-size Tone) system and its processes.
We will ex-plain how to analyze focus information, design theFET structure, and find the relationships of focuswith speech acts to prosodic marks in section 3.We implement our FET grammar for the Linguis-tic Knowledge Base (LKB) system (Copestake,2002), generate a set of focus words, explain theFET environment, and show an example in sec-tion 4.
In the last section, we conclude the currentstate of our work and the future work.672 Overview of FET System for ProsodicAnalysis in SLGOur system generates the prosodic structure de-pending on the focus analysis.
We use thisprosodic structure to modify synthetic speech forSLG.
Our FET structure is constrained by thespeaker?s intention.
To define prosody, we ex-plore the relationships of focus and speech actsfrom various sentence types.
The diagram of ourFET system is shown in figure 1 and we presentan overview of the FET system based on the LKBsystem below.Input: ?Kim bought a flower?LKB system with ERGMRS representation of ?Kim bought a flower?Transforming MRS to Focus wordsFocus WordsLKB with FET AnalysisFET structure with prosodic marksExtracting the tone marksSpeech Synthesis &Prosodic Modification Modified Synthetic Speech of ?Kim bought a flower?- Scan the MRS representation - Keep any relations of each components- Transform Structure  - Create a set focus words for a sentenceWords + Tone MarksStep 1Step 2Focus WordsStep 3Step 4I.
PrepocessingII.
FET SystemIII.
PostprocessingFET structure   with prosodic marksFET Envoronment- FET typed hierarchy - FET structure- FET constraints - FET rules The relationship of focus with speech acts to prosodyFigure 1: A diagram of the FET systemOur input is a sentence and its focus criterionobtained from a user.
In figure 1, the example sen-tence is ?Kim bought a flower?
and the focus cri-terion is G (see table 2).
Our system is composedof four main steps.The first step is preprocessing.
The LKBsystem with the English Resource Grammar(ERG) (Copestake, 2002) parses a sentence.
TheLKB system analyzes the syntactic and semanticstructures and generates the Minimal RecursiveSemantic (MRS) (Copestake et al, 1995) repre-sentation.
This step occurs before invoking theFET system.In the second step, we scan the MRS struc-ture and collect any components and their relationsamong them obtained from the preprocessing step.We select only required information, such as sen-tence mood, from the MRS representation, assigna speech act code referring to a main verb of a sen-tence, and obtain from the MRS structure a set offocus words.
These focus words are an input forthe focus information analysis in the FET system.The third step is the FET analysis.
This stepgenerates the prosodic components inside the FETstructure.
Using our FET grammar, we input thefocus words into the LKB system with the FET en-vironment.
This environment consists of the FETtype hierarchy, constraints, rules, and structuresincluding the focus and prosodic features.
Sincethe LKB system with FET environment can an-alyze the focus relations corresponding to speechacts and sentence moods, the system completes theFET structure by generating a set of appropriateprosodic structures containing prosodic marks asa result.The last step is the postprocessing process.
Weextract words and their prosodic marks as Toneand Break Index (ToBI) representations (Silver-man et al, 1992) from the FET structure.
The ex-tracting system processes the FET structure, ex-tracts only our required prosodic fields.
Thesefields are a set of words and their tone marks for asentence.
We use the set of words with tone marksto modify synthetic speech, which is generated byspeech synthesis.
We use the PRAAT (Boersmaand Weenink, 2005) to modify the prosody of thesynthetic speech for a sentence.
Our output is anaudio file of the sentence with modified prosody.Modifying prosody follows the tone marks whichare analyzed by the FET system.3 FET AnalysisWe describe our concept of the FET analysis (seestep 3, figure 1).
We determine how the speaker?sutterances are influenced by a speaker?s intention.Focus information can be used to indicate how toappropriately mark a part of a sentence to con-vey the speaker?s intention.
Focus can scope thecontent in a sentence to which a speaker wantsthe listener to pay attention.
We also considerspeech acts which involve a speaker?s intentionand speaker?s utterance.
We analyze the relation-ships of focus parts with speech acts to tone marks.We define the intonation patterns depending onparticular focus parts and speech acts.
Our FETanalysis obtains syntactic and semantic contentsfrom the preprocessing process.
We employ theLKB system to parse a sentence.
The LKB systemis an HPSG parser.
A particular grammar, usedfor LKB system, is called ERG containing morethan 10,000 lexemes.
The LKB system generatesthe semantic information which is represented byMRS representation.683.1 FET ConstraintsOur FET analysis uses a constraint-based ap-proach.
We find what part (actor, act, actee ortheir combinations) must be in the focus from thethe MRS structure.
If the focus is marked at aposition in a sentence then the speaker wants thehearer to recognize the content at that position inthe sentence.
For example, the speaker utters thesentence ?Kim bought a flower?
by emphasizingat the different positions in the sentence as showntable 1.
Then we transform the MRS structures toour FET content structure which is represented bya set of focus words.
This structure contains ?ac-tor?
(a person or a thing that acts something in asentence), ?act?
(an activity in that sentence), and?actee?
(the response of the activity) parts.Table 1: The different focuses in the sentenceFocus Speaker wants to focus at .
.
.
[a] [KIM ]F bought a flower.
(Who bought a flower?
)[b] Kim bought [a FLOWER]F .
(What did Kim buy?
)[c] Kim [BOUGHT a flower]F .
(What did Kim do?
)Considering a focus part, our focus model willacknowledge two focus types: w-focus, and s-focus.
The w-focus represents wide focus, whichcovers a phrase or a word.
The s-focus representssingle focus, which is placed on a word in the sen-tence.
We assign the actor and actee parts as singleor wide focus while the act part is only an s-focus.Normally, the focus does not cover only the actpart.
If the focus covers the act part, then the focusmust cover at least one of the related parts (actoror actee).
Therefore, we set the focus types fol-lowing all situations that occur and call the focuscriteria.
Eight focus criteria are shown in table 2.Table 2: The focus parts and the focus typesNo.
Focus Parts Focus TypesA actor+act+actee {w-focus(actor),s-focus(act),w-focus(actee)} or undefinedB actor+act {w-focus(actor),s-focus(act)}C actor+actee {w-focus(actor),s-focus(actee)}or {w-focus(actee),s-focus(actor)}D actor w-focus(actor) or s-focus(actor)E act+actee {s-focus(act),w-focus(actee)}F act s-focus(act)G actee w-focus(actee) or s-focus(actee)H  undefinedWe define constraints to select the focus typesfollowing the different situations.
We categorizethe conditions for focus types to five cases.
Theseconditions cover all possible situations.
These sit-uations define the focus based on the focus partsfor most simple sentences.
We illustrate the at-tribute value matrix (AVM) structure to representthese situations in figure 2.
(a) An s-focus of the actor or actee parts.
Thelast node in the list of objects is defined asthe focus position to emphasize tone (FET-obj), see figure 2(a).
(b) A w-focus at the actor or actee parts.
The listof objects is the FET-obj in the sentence asshown in figure 2(b).
(c) A w-focus at actor or actee parts contain-ing the multiple lists of objects.
The lists aremerged together to be the FET-obj as shownin figure 2(c).
(d) An s-focus at actor or actee parts containingthe multiple lists of objects.
If the focus typeis an s-focus and there are m sets of lists ofobjects (multiple lists of objects), then theselists of objects can be split into the s-focus ofeach list of objects, see figure 2(d).
(e) A focus on the act part.
Two cases of definingthe focus types are shown in figure 2(e).
Thefirst case, the s-focus marks the act part whilethe w-focus marks the actee part.
The secondcase, the s-focus marks the act part and thew-focus marks at the actor part.??????????><?
><???
??
?nnaobjFETaaafocuslistfocussTypeFocusstrucf ocusf ocussmake,,,&_21 K(a)??????????><?
><???
??
?nnaaaobjFETaaafocuslistfocuswTypeFocusstrucf ocusf ocuswmake,,,,,,&_2121 KK(b)??????????><?
><???
??
?nnnnmmmaaaob jFETmmmaaafocuslistfocuswTypeFocusstrucf ocusf ocuswlistmerg,,,, .
.
.
,,,,],,,[], .
.
,,,,[&__21212121 KKKK(c)??????????><?
><????????????????><?
><?????
?nnnn mobjFETmmmfocuslistfocussTypeFocus strucfocusaobjFETaaafocuslistfocussTypeFocus strucfocusfocusslistsplit,,,&.
.
.,,,&__2121 KK(d)?????????????????????????????
?>< ><????????????????><?
><????????????????????????????????????><?
><??????????????
?>< ><??????
?
?nnnnnnnnaaaafocussobjFETfocuslistTypeFocusactcccobjFETcccfocuslistfocuswTypeFocusactor strucfocusstrucfocusbbbobjFETbbbfocuslistfocuswTypeFocusacteeaaaafocussobjFETfocuslistTypeFocusactstrucfocusstrucfocusfocussactmake,.
.
.
,,,,.
.
.
,,,.
.
.
,,&&,.. .
,,,.
.
.
,,,,.
.
.
,,&&:__212121212121(e)Figure 2: The AVM structure of focus marking:For actor or actee part, (a) s-focus (b) w-focus (c)w-focus of the multiple lists (d) s-focus of the mul-tiple lists and, (e) s-focus for act part3.2 The Relationships of Focus with SpeechActs to ProsodyAt step 3 of figure 1, we define the speech actcodes following Brennenstuhl (1981).
To mark69these codes, we consider the main verb (knownas the act part inside the FET content structure).These codes define what the speech act cate-gories can be in each sentence.
A sentence canbe marked by more than one code according tospeech act classification (Ballmer and Brennen-stuhl, 1981).
We mark the speech act codes for 62sentences from a part of the CMU communicatordataset (2002).
Considering the relationships be-tween speech acts and focus parts, we found somecommon patterns for marking tones in a sentence.For example, the tone mark L-L%, analyzed aslow phrase tone (L-) to low boundary tone (L%), ismarked at the last word of a sentence for any affir-mative sentence.
The tone marks H- (high phrasetone) and L- are marked at the last word beforeconjunction (such as ?and?, ?or?, ?but?, and soon) or are marked at the last word of the currentphrase (following the next phrase).
We know thatthe tone mark H* (high accent tone) is used to em-phasize a word or a group of words in a sentence.If we want strong emphasis at a word or a groupof words then we use the tone mark L+H* (risingaccent tone) instead of H*.
The groups of speechacts, that we consider in this paper, include intend-ing (EN0ab), want (DE8b), and victory (KA4a),to explore tone patterns.
We analyze the relation-ships of speech acts and tone marks grouping byfocus parts as shown in figure 3.
Since our ex-ample sentence has focus at actee part, speech actcode is en0ab, and the sentence mood is affirma-tive sentence (aff), we define the tone marks for aset of words in the actee part as L+H* L-L%, fol-lowing figure 3.
The outcome of this process is theFET structure including the prosodic structure.Code ActType SentType ConditionAff    L-L%H*LL*L-H*LL*Actee_tone n ??m  )]([)]([ 1EN0ab Actee Int    H-H%H*LH*H-H*LH*Actee_tone n ??m  )]([)]([ 1Aff L-L%H*Actee_tone mDE8b Actee Int H-H%H*Actee_tone mAff )( H*LH*Actor_tone ?mActor Int )( H*LH*Actor_tone ?mAff > @  L-L%L-HLH*Actee_tone n-*)( 1 ?mKA4a Actee Int > @  H-H%H-HLH*Actee_tone n-*)( 1 ?mFigure 3: Tone constraints4 An Example of FET Implementationwith LKB SystemIn this section, we implement our system using theLKB system with the FET environment.
We ana-lyze an example sentence ?Kim bought a flower?using the FET system.
The system contains theFET environment (see section 4.2) and constrainsfocus and prosodic features based on FET analysisin section 3.
We introduce the FET type hierarchyand describe the components of FET structure.4.1 Interpreting the MRS representation forFocus WordsIn the preprocessing process, the LKB systemwithERG parses a sentence and generates the MRSrepresentation (see step 1, figure 1).
By scan-ning each object inside the MRS representation,we keep all reference numbers, mapped with theirobjects and record every connection that is relatedto this object and this reference number.
We ex-tract only necessary information to generate a setof focus words (see step 2, figure 1).
These focuswords are generated to correspond to the LKB sys-tem.
For a sentence, we define a speech act codereferring to a main verb and obtain a focus crite-rion from a user.Each focus word, as shown in figure 4, ismarked by a focus part (focus-part).
A focusword structure (focus-word) contains the focus cri-terion (fcgroup), speech act code (spcode), sen-tence mood (stmood) and focus position (focus-pos) in a focus part.
In figure 4, the focus crite-rion is defined as group G (see table 2) while thespeech acts code is en0ab (intending).
The sen-tence mood referring fromMRS is affirmative sen-tence and focus position is the last node (ls).
Wewill describe the focus-word and its componentsin the next section.
In figure 4, ?Kim?
is a actorpart while ?bought?
is an act part.
The words ?a?and ?flower?
are the actee parts.bought := focus-word &[ ORTH "bought",  HEAD act-part &  [ AGR1 ls-act_G-aff-en0ab ],  SPR < [HEAD actor-part &         [ AGR1 ls-actor_G-aff-en0ab ] ] >,  COMPS < focus-phrase & [HEAD actee-part &         [AGR1 ls-actee_G-aff-en0ab  ]]  > ].a := focus-word &[ ORTH "a",  HEAD actee-part &        [AGR1 pv-actee_G-aff-en0ab ],  SPR < >,  COMPS < > ].flower := focus-word &[ ORTH "flower",  HEAD actee-part &         [AGR1 ls-actee_G-aff-en0ab  ],  SPR < [ HEAD actee-part &         [AGR1 pv-actee_G-aff-en0ab ]] >,  COMPS < focus-phrase & [HEAD actee-part &         [AGR1 ls-actee_G-aff-en0ab  ]]> ].Kim := focus-word &[ ORTH "Kim",  HEAD actor-part &        [ AGR1 ls-actor_G-aff-en0ab],  SPR <  >,  COMPS < > ].Figure 4: A set of focus words4.2 FET Tone EnvironmentIn FTE system, we provide a set of focus wordsto the LKB system with the FET environment (seestep 3, figure 1).
This environment contains theconstraints, rules, type hierarchy, a set of features,and their structures for the FET analysis.
Wedesign the FET type hierarchy as shown in fig-ure 5.
We define three main groups of featurestructures: *focus-value*, *prosodic-value* andfeat-struc to control the focus constraints.
*focus-70value* represents the focus structures.
It is com-posed of five subfeature structures: focus crite-rion, focus type (fctype), focus name (focus), fo-cus position (focus-pos), and checking whether atone mark can be marked at a word (tone-mark).
*prosody-value* represents the prosodic structure.Four prosodic subfeature structures are sentencemood, speech act code, accent tone (accent-tone),and boundary tone (bound-tone).
feat-struc con-tains the core FET structure that constrains the re-lationships between focus and prosodic features.The feat-struc structure is composed of six mainsubfeature structures: (i) focus category structure(focus-cat) is a set of constraints which are thecombinations of a focus part and a focus criterionsuch as act g, actor g, actee g, and so on, (ii) fo-cus part structure (focus-part) classifies act partand non-act part as actor part or actee part, (iii)focus structure (focus-struc) is a subfeature struc-ture of focus-word and focus-phrase, (iv) checkingwhether prosodic marks can be marked (prosody),(v) prosodic mark (prosody-mark) structure mapsbetween types of prosodic mark and accent andboundary tones: no-mark, hEm Sh-break, etc, (vi)a set of prosodic marks (prosody-set) is a set ofcombinations between accent and boundary tones.Figure 5: FET type hierarchy4.2.1 Focus StructureIn figure 6(a), the focus-phrase inherits thefocus-struc with a feature ARGS.
The ARGS rep-resents a list of words in the sentence.
The focusrules parse the focus-phrase with their constraintsand define whether tone can be marked at a wordin each focus part.
The focus-word inherits thefocus-struc with orthography of a word (ORTH)as string.
The focus-word, as shown in 6(b), repre-sents the focus content structure and correspondsto the LKB system.
The focus-struc, as show infigure 6(c), consists of HEAD, specifier (SPR) andcomplement (COMPS) (Ivan et al, 2003).
In-side the focus-struc, HEAD refers to focus-partwhich is shown in figure 6(d).
SPR and COMPare used to specify the components of previousnodes and following nodes in a sentence.
Eachfocus-part contains focus and prosodic structures.We classify focus following the possible focus-cat for the FET structure.
The focus-cat controlsthe constraints for the actor, act and actee parts.The focus-cat contains both the focus and prosodicfeatures as a set of subfeatures of the FET struc-ture.
This structure contains focus position, fo-cus group, focus type, a set of prosody marksand prosodic structure (prosody).
The focus-catis shown in figure 6(e).
[ ]** &:listARGSstrucfocusphrasefocus ?
=?
(a)[ ]stringORTH strucfocuswordfocus&:?=?(b)??????????
??=?****&:listCOMPSlistSPRpartfocusHEADstrucfeatstrucfocus(c)??????
??
=?catfocusAGRfocusFOCUSstrucfeatpartfocus1&:(d)????????????????
??
?=?prosodyPROSODYaddtoneADDTONEfctypeFCTYPEfcgroupFCGROUPposfocusPOSFOCUSstrucfeatcatfocus&:(e)Figure 6: Type feature structure of: (a) focus-phrase (b) focus-word (c) focus-struc (d) focus-part (e) focus-cat4.2.2 Prosodic StructureThe prosodic structure consists of these subfea-tures: sentence mood, speech act code, and a set ofprosodic mark structures.
This structure controlsthe prosodic marks following the FET constraints.These constraints depend on the relationships offocus with speech acts to intonation patterns.
Theprosody structure is shown in figure 7(a).
Theaccent and boundary tones are mapped with theprosody-mark which is illustrated in figure 7(b).??????????????
???
=markprosodyMARKPROSOD YmarkprosodyMARKPROSOD YspcodeSPCODEstmoodSTMOO D strucfeatprosody21&:(a)??????
??
???
=?toneboundTONEBOUNDtoneaccentTONEACCENTstrucfeatmarkprosody&:(b)Figure 7: Type feature structure of: (a) Prosodicstructure (b) Prosodic mark structureFor focus rules, we have two types of focusrules that are head-complement and head-specifierrules.
These rules process the same as a simplegrammar rule which is explained in (Ivan et al,2003).
Using these rules, the example sentence?Kim bought a flower?
is parsed and the resultis the complete FET structure including the focus71and prosodic information.
The FET structure ofthe word ?Kim?
is shown in figure 8.Figure 8: FET structure of the word ?Kim?4.3 Modifying Prosody for Synthetic SpeechIn the postprocessing process (see step 4, figure 1),we extract a set of words with tone marks from theFET structure.
An example of these words withtone marks is shown in figure 9.
Finally we trans-fer this data to generate the synthesized speech bythe speech synthesis and modify prosody.ORTH: KimFocus: actor-partACCENT_TONE1: NOACCENTBOUND_TONE1: NOBOUNDORTH: boughtFocus: act-partACCENT_TONE1: NOACCENTBOUND_TONE1: NOBOUNDORTH: aFocus: actee-partACCENT_TONE1 : NOACCENTBOUND_TONE1:  NOBOUNDORTH: flowerFocus: actee-partACCENT_TONE1: L+H*BOUND_TONE1: L-L%Figure 9: A set of words and their tone marks5 Concluding RemarksWe design the FET system based on the smallnumber of sentences from a part of the CMU com-municator dataset (2002).
These simple sentencesrelate to traveling information.
In this paper, weuse the MRS representation from the LKB systemto determine actor, act and actee parts.
Since theLKB has a limited grammar and produces multi-ple parses, then we assume that our input sentencecan be parsed by the HPSG parser and only a cor-rect output is provided to the LKB system withthe FET environment.
We analyze the relation-ships of focus with speech acts to tone marks.
Tomark tone, we group the tone patterns by speechacts and focus parts.
We implement the FET sys-tem using LKB and an example is illustrated insection 4 in this paper.
Using the LKB with theFET grammar, the system can parse most simplesentences from the CMU communicator datasetand generate the complete FET structure includingprosodic marks for each sentence.
We are evaluat-ing the FET system with respect to three aspects:appreciation of listeners to tone based on the tonemarks from the FET system, conveying the focuscontent in a sentence to listeners and the correct-ness of prosodic annotation.
In the future, we willfinish the evaluations and analyze more relation-ships of focus with speech acts to tones to supportthe various sentences.AcknowledgementThis work is supported by NSERC, Canada, RoyalGolden Jubilee Ph.D. program, Thailand ResearchFund, Thailand, and King Mongkut?s Universityof Technology Thonburi, Thailand.ReferencesMohammad Haji-Adolhosseini.
2003.
A Constraint-Based Approach to Information Structure andProsody Correspondence.
Proc.
of The HPSG-2003Conf., In Stefan Muller (ed.
), CSLI Pub., MichiganState Univ., East Lansing, pp.
143-162.Ewan Klein.
2000.
Prosodic constituency in HPSG,Grammatical Interfaces in HPSG.
In Ronnie Cann,and Philip Miller, ed., CSLI Pub., pp 169-200.Copestake A.
2002.
Implementing Typed FeatureStructure Grammars.
CSLI Pub., Stanford, CA.Copestake A., Flickinger D., Malouf R., Riehemann S.and Sag I.A.
1995.
Translation using Minimal Re-cursion Semantics.
Proc.
of the The 6th Int?l Conf.on Theoretical and Methodological Issues in Ma-chine Translation (TMI-95), Belgium.Silverman K., Beckman M. B., Pirelli J., OstendorfM., Wightman C., Price P., Pierrehumbert J., andHirschberg J.
1992.
ToBI: A Standard for Label-ing English Prosody.
In Proc.
of ICSLP?92, Banff,Canada, pages.
867-870.Steedman M. and Prevost, S. 1994.
Specifying Into-nation from Context for Speech Synthesis.
SpeechComm., 15, 1994, 139-153.Von Heusinger K. 1999.
Intonation and InformationStructure.
The Representation of Focus in Phonol-ogy and Semantics.
Habilitationsschrift, UniversityKonstanz, pp.
125-155.Paul Boersma and David Weenink 2005.
Praat:doing phonetics by computer.
Inst.
of Pho-netic Sciences, Univ.
of Amsterdam, Netherlands,http://www.praat.org, Oct. 2005.Ballmer T. and Brennenstuhl W. 1981.
Speech ActClassification.
A study in the Lexical analysis ofEnglish speech activity verbs.
Springer Series inLanguage and Comm., Vol.8.
Springer Verlag, NewYork, 1981.CMU Communicator KAL limited domain.
2002.Language Technologies Inst., Carnegie MellonUniv., www.festvox.org, Oct 2005.Sag, Ivan A., Thomas Wasow, and Emily Bender.2003.
Syntactic Theory: A formal introduction.CSLI Pub., Univ.
of Chicago Press.72
