Proceedings of the 21st International Conference on Computational Linguistics and 44th Annual Meeting of the ACL, pages 937?944,Sydney, July 2006. c?2006 Association for Computational LinguisticsMultilingual Legal Terminology on the Jibiki Platform:The LexALP ProjectGilles Se?rasset, Francis Brunet-ManquatUniversite?
Joseph Fourier,Laboratoire CLIPS-IMAG, BP 5338041 Grenoble Cedex 9 - France,Gilles.Serasset@imag.frFrancis.Brunet-Manquat@imag.frElena ChiocchettiEURAC ResearchViale Druso 139100 Bozen/Bolzano - ItalyElena.Chiocchetti@eurac.eduAbstractThis paper presents the particular use of?Jibiki?
(Papillon?s web server develop-ment platform) for the LexALP1 project.LexALP?s goal is to harmonise the ter-minology on spatial planning and sustain-able development used within the AlpineConvention2, so that the member statesare able to cooperate and communicateefficiently in the four official languages(French, German, Italian and Slovene).
Tothis purpose, LexALP uses the Jibiki plat-form to build a term bank for the con-trastive analysis of the specialised termi-nology used in six different national legalsystems and four different languages.
Inthis paper we present how a generic plat-form like Jibiki can cope with a new kindof dictionary.1 IntroductionOne of the most time-consuming hindrances tosupranational law drafting and convention nego-tiation is the lack of understanding among nego-tiators and technical writers.
This is not only dueto the fact that different languages are involved,but mainly to the inherent differences in the legalsystems.
Countries that speak the same language(like France and part of Switzerland) may use thesame word to represent different legal concepts3,1Legal Language Harmonisation System for Environmentand Spatial Planning within the Multilingual Alps2http://www.convenzionedellealpi.org3E.g.
: In the German-speaking province of Bolzano Italythe Landeshauptmann is the president of the provincial coun-cil, with much more limited competence that the AustrianLandeshauptmann, who is head of one of the states (Bundes-land) that are part of the Austrian federation.as defined in their respective legal traditions.
Thesame concept may be referred to in different waysaccording to the legal system4.
Also, terms thatmay superficially seem to be translations of eachother can represent different legal notions5.In order to concretely address these problems,several institutions representing translators, ter-minologists, legal experts and computational lin-guists joined in the LexALP project, co-funded byEU?s INTERREG IIIb Alpine Space programme.The objective of the project is to compare the spe-cialised terminology of six different national legalsystems (Austria, France, Germany, Italy, Switzer-land and Slovenia) and three supranational sys-tems (EU law, international law and the particu-lar framework of the Alpine Convention) in thefour official languages of the Al-pine Convention,which is an international framework agreementsigned by all countries of the Alpine arc and theEU.
This contrastive analysis serves as a basis forthe work of a group of experts (the HarmonisingGroup) who will determine translation equivalentsin French, Italian, German and Slovene (one-to-one correspondence) in the fields of spatial plan-ning and sustainable development for use withinthe Convention, thus optimising the understandingbetween the Alpine states at supranational level.The tools that are to be developed for these ob-jectives comprise a corpus bank and a term bank.The corpus bank is developed by adapting thebistro system (Streiter et al, 2006; Streiter et al,2004).
The term bank is based on the Jibiki plat-4See for instance the European Union use of chien droguewhile French legislation calls them chien renifleur.5For example, in Italy an elezione suppletiva is commonlyheld whenever an elected deputy or senator either resigns ordies.
In Germany in such cases the first non-elected candidateis called to parliament.
Ersatzwahlen are a rare phenomenon,foreseen in some very specific cases.937form (Mangeot et al, 2003; Se?rasset, 2004).This paper details the way the Jibiki platform isused in order to cope with a new dictionary struc-ture.
The platform provides dictionary access andedition services without any new and specific de-velopment.After a brief overview of the Jibiki platform, wedescribe the choices made by the LexALP team forthe structure and organisation of their term bank.Then, we show how this structure is described us-ing Jibiki metadata description languages.
Finally,we give some details on the resulting LexALP In-formation System.2 Jibiki, The Papillon DictionaryDevelopment Platform2.1 OverviewThe Jibiki platform has been designed to supportthe collaborative development of multilingual dic-tionaries.
This platform is used as the basis of thePapillon project web site6.This platform offers several services to its users:?
access to many different dictionaries from asingle easy to use query form,?
advance search for particular dictionary en-tries through an advanced search form,?
creation and edition of dictionary entries.What makes the Jibiki platform quite unique isthe fact that it provides these services regardless ofthe dictionary structure.
In other words it may beused by any dictionary builder to give access andcollaboratively edit any dictionary, provided thatthe resulting dictionary will be freely accessibleonline.2.2 Jibiki Platform ArchitectureThe Jibiki platform is a framework used to set upa web server dedicated to the collaborative devel-opment of multilingual dictionaries.
All servicesprovided by the platform are organised as classi-cal 3-tier architectures with a presentation layer(in charge of the interface with users), a businesslayer (which provides the services per se) and adata layer (in charge of the storage of persistentdata).In order to adapt the Jibiki platform to a newdictionary, the dictionary manager does not have6http://www.papillon-dictionary.org/Papillon Application (java + enhydrapresentationlayerserveurHTTP(apache)Relational database(PostgreSQL)XML-UTF8HTMLCSSjavascript+CGIWMLxhtmlchtmlbusiness layer data layerJDBCLexieaxieDicoHistoriqueUtilisateur...DatavalidationMailing listarchiveUsers/GroupsContributionsmanagementVolumeInformationsharingrequestsmanagementInformationMessageFigure 1: The Jibiki platform general architectureto write specific java code nor specific dynamicweb pages.
The only necessary information usedby the platform consists in:?
a description of the dictionary volumes andtheir relations,?
a mapping between the envisaged dictionarystructure and a simple hypothetical dictionarystructure (called CDM)7,?
the definition of the XML structure of eachenvisaged dictionary volume by way of XMLschemas,?
the development of a specific edition in-terface as a standard xhtml form (that canbe adapted from an automatically generateddraft).3 The LexALP Terminology Structure3.1 OverviewThe objective of the LexALP project is to com-pare the specialised terminology of six differentnational legal systems and three supranational sys-tems in four different languages, and to harmoniseit, thus optimising communication between theAlpine states at supranational level.
To achievethis objective, the terminology of the Alpine Con-vention is described and compared to the equiva-lent terms used in national legislation.
The result-ing terminology entries feed a specific term bankthat will support the harmonisation work.As the project deals with legal terms, which re-fer to concepts that are proper of the considerednational law or international convention, equiva-lence problems are the norm, given that conceptsare not ?stable?
between the different national leg-islations.
Standard terminology techniques forother fields can not be applied to the field of law,where the standardisation approach (Felber, 1987;7This mapping is sufficient for simple dictionary access938Felber, 1994) is not applicable.
For this, we choseto use ?acceptions?
as they are defined in the Pa-pillon dictionary (Se?rasset, 1994) to represent theequivalence links between concepts of the differ-ent legal systems (Arntz, 1993).ItalianSloveneGermanFrenchinneralpiner Verkehrznotrajalpski promettransport intra-alpincirculation intra-alpinetrafic intra-alpintraffico intraalpinotrasporto intraalpinoFigure 2: An Alpine Convention concept in fourlanguagesThe example given in figure 2 shows a conceptdefined in the Alpine Convention.
This concepthas the same definition in the four languages ofthe Alpine Convention but is expressed by differ-ent denominations.
The Alpine Convention alsouses the terms ?circulation intra-alpine?
or ?trans-port intra-alpin?
which are identified as synonymsby the terminologist.This illustrates the first goal of the LexALPproject.
In different texts, the same concept maybe realised by different terms in the same lan-guage.
This may lead to inefficient communica-tion.
Hence, a single term has to be determinedas part of a harmonised quadruplet of transla-tion equivalents.
The other denominations will berepresented in the term bank as non-harmonisedsynonyms in order to direct drafting and translat-ing within the Alpine Convention towards a moreclear and consistent terminology use for interlin-gual and supranational communication.In this example, the lexicographers and juristsdid not identify any existing concept in the differ-ent national laws that could be considered closeenough to the concept analysed.
This is coherentwith the minutes from the French National Assem-bly which clearly states that the term ?trafic intra-alpin?
(among others) should be clarified by a dec-laration to be added to the Alpine Convention.Figure 3 shows an analogous quadrilingual ex-ample where the Alpine Convention concept maybe related to a legal term defined in the Frenchlaws.
In this example the French term is distin-guished from the Alpine Convention terms, be-cause these concepts belong to different legal sys-ItalianSloveneGermanFrenchprincipio di precauzioneVorsorgeprinzipnacelo preventiveprincipe de pr?cautionprincipe de pr?cautionFigure 3: A quadrilingual term extracted from theAlpine Convention with reference to its equivalentat French national leveltems (and are not identically defined in them).Hence, the terminologists created distinct accep-tions, one for each concept.
These acceptions arerelated by a translation link.This illustrates the second goal of the project,which is to help with the fine comprehension of theAlpine Convention and with the detailed knowl-edge necessary to evaluate the implementation andimplementability of the convention in the differentlegal systems.As a by-product of the project, one can see thatthere is an indirect relation between concepts fromdifferent national legal systems (by way of theirrespective relation to the concepts of the AlpineConvention).
However, establishing these indi-rect relations is not one of the main objectives ofthe LexALP project and would require more directcontrastive analysis.3.2 Macro- and Micro- StructuresThe LexALP term bank consists in 5 volumes(for French, German, Italian, Slovene and English)containing all term descriptions (grammatical in-formation, definition, contexts etc.).
The transla-tion links are established through a central accep-tion volume.
Figure 2 and 3 show examples ofterms extracted from the Alpine Convention, syn-onymy links in the French and Italian volumes,as well as inter-lingual relations by way of accep-tions.All language volumes share the same mi-crostructure.
This structure is stored in XML.Figure 4 shows the xml structure of the Frenchterm ?trafic intra-alpin?, as defined in the AlpineConvention.
The term entry is associated to aunique identifier used to establish relations be-tween volume entries.
Each term entry belongsto one (and only one) legal system.
The exam-ple term belongs to the Alpine Convention legal939<entry id="fra.trafic_intra-alpin.1010743.e"lang="fra"legalSystem="AC"process_status="FINALISED"status="HARMONISED"><term>trafic intra-alpin</term><grammar>n.m.</grammar><domain>Transport</domain><usage frequency="common"geographical-code="INT"technical="false"/><relatedTerm isHarmonised="false"relationToTerm="Synonym"termref="">transport intra-alpin</relatedTerm><relatedTerm isHarmonised="false"relationToTerm="Synonym"termref="">circulation intra-alpine</relatedTerm><definition>[T]rafic constitue?
de trajets ayant leurpoint de de?part et/ou d?arrive?e a` l?inte?-rieur de l?espace alpin.</definition><source url="">Prot.
Transp., art.
2</source><context url="http://www...">Des projets routiers a` grand de?bit pourle trafic intra-alpin peuvent e?tre re?alise?s,si [...].</context></entry>Figure 4: XML form of the term ?trafic intra-alpin?.system8 (code AC).
The set of known legal sys-tems includes of course countries belonging to theAlpine Space (Austria, France, Germany, Italy,Slovenia and Switzerland9) but also internationaltreaties or conventions.
The entry also bears theinformation on its status (harmonised or rejected)and its process status (to be processed, provision-ally processed or finalised).The term itself and its part of speech is alsogiven, with the general domain to which the termbelongs, along with some usage notes.
In these us-age notes, the attribute geographical-codeallows for discrimination between terms definedin national (or federal) laws and terms defined inregional laws as in some of the countries involvedlegislative power is distributed at different levels.Then the term may be related to other terms.These relations may lead to simple strings oftexts (as in the given example) or to autonomousterm entries in the dictionary by the use of thetermref attribute.
The relation itself is specifiedin the relationToTerm attribute.
The currentschema allows for the representation of relations8Strictly speaking, the Alpine Convention does not con-stitute a legal system per se.9Also Liechtenstein and Monaco are parties to the AlpineConvention, however, their legal systems are not terminolog-ically processed within LexALP.between concepts (synonymy, hyponymy and hy-peronymy), as well as relations between graphies(variant, abbreviation, acronym, etc.
).Then, a definition and a context may be given.Both should be extracted from legal texts, whichmust be identified in the source field.An interlingual acception (or axie) is a placeholder for relations.
Each interlingual acceptionmay be linked to several term entries in the lan-guage volumes through termref elements andto other interlingual acceptions through axierefelements, as illustrated in figure 5.<axie id="axi..1011424.e"><termrefidref="ita.traffico_intraalpino.1010654.e"lang="ita"/><termrefidref="fra.trafic_intra-alpin.1010743.e"lang="fra"/><termrefidref="deu.inneralpiner_Verkehr.1011065.e"lang="deu"/><termrefidref="slo.znotrajalpski_promet.1011132.e"lang="slo"/><axieref idref=""/><misc></misc></axie>Figure 5: XML form of the interlingual acceptionillustated in figure 2.4 LexALP Information System4.1 OverviewBuilding such a term bank can only be envisagedas a collaborative work involving terminologists,translators and legal experts from all the involvedcountries.
Hence, the LexALP consortium has setup a centralised information system that is used togather all textual and terminological data.This information system is organized in twomain parts.
The first one is dedicated to corpusmanagement.
It allows the users to upload legaltexts that will serve to bootstrap the terminologywork (by way of candidate term extraction) andto let terminologists find occurrences of the termthey are working on, in order for them to providedefinitions or contexts.The second part is dedicated to terminologywork per se.
It has been developed with the Jibikiplatform described in section 2.
In this section, weshow the LexALP Information System functional-ity, along with the metadata required to implementit with Jibiki.9404.2 Dictionary BrowsingThe first main service consists in browsing the cur-rently developed dictionary.
It consists in two dif-ferent query interfaces (see figures 6 and 7) and aunique result presentation interface (see figure 10).Figure 6: Simple search interface present on allpages of the LexALP Information System<dictionary-metadata[...]d:category="multilingual"d:fullname="LexALP multilingual Term Base"d:name="LexALP"d:owner="LexALP consortium"d:type="pivot"><languages><source-language d:lang="deu"/><source-language d:lang="fra"/><target-language d:lang="deu"/><target-language d:lang="fra"/>[...]</languages>[...]<volumes><volume-metadata-ref name="LexALP_fra"source-language="fra"xlink:href="LexALP_fra-metadata.xml"/><volume-metadata-ref name="LexALP_deu"source-language="deu"xlink:href="LexALP_deu-metadata.xml"/>[...]<volume-metadata-ref name="LexALP_axi"source-language="axi"xlink:href="LexALP_axi-metadata.xml"/></volumes><xsl-stylesheet name="LexALP" default="true"xlink:href="LexALP-view.xsl"/><xsl-stylesheet name="short-list"xlink:href="short-list-view.xsl"/></dictionary-metadata>Figure 8: Excerpt of the dictionary descriptorIn the provided examples, the user of the sys-tem specifies an entry (a term), or part of it, anda language in which the search is to be done.
Theexpected behaviour may only be achieved if :?
the system knows in which volume the searchis to be performed,?
the system knows where, in the volume entry,the headword is to be found,?
the system is able to produce a presentationfor the retrieved XML structures.However, as the Jibiki platform is entirely in-dependent of the underlying dictionary structure<volume-metadata[...]dbname="lexalpfra"dictname="LexALP"name="LexALP_fra"source-language="fra"><cdm-elements><cdm-entry-id index="true"xpath="/volume/entry/@id"/><cdm-headword d:lang="fra" index="true"xpath="/volume/entry/term/text()"/><cdm-pos d:lang="fra" index="true"xpath="/volume/entry/grammar/text()"/>[...]</cdm-elements><xmlschema-ref xlink:href="lexalp.xsd"/><template-entry-refxlink:href="lexalp_fra-template.xml"/><template-interface-refxlink:href="lexalp-interface.xhtml"/></volume-metadata>Figure 9: Excerpt of a volume descriptor(which makes it highly adaptable), the expectedresult may only be achieved if additional metadatais added to the system.These pieces of information are to be found inthe mandatory dictionary descriptor.
It consistsin a structure defined in the Dictionary MetadataLanguage (DML), as set of metadata structuresand a specific XML namespace defined in (Man-geot, 2001).Figure 8 gives an excerpt of this descriptor.
Themetadata first identify the dictionary by giving ita name and a type.
In this example the dictionaryis a pivot dictionary (DML also defines monolin-gual and bilingual dictionary types).
The descrip-tor also defines the set of source and target lan-guages.
Finally, the dictionary is defined as a setof volumes, each volume being described in an-other file.
As the LexALP dictionary is a pivotdictionary, there should be a volume for the artifi-cial language axi, which is the pivot volume.Figure 9 shows an excerpt of the description ofthe French volume of the LexALP dictionary.
Af-ter specifying the name of the dictionary, the de-scriptor provides a set of cdm-elements.
These el-ements are used to identify standard dictionary el-ements (that can be found in several dictionaries)in the specific dictionary structure.
For instance,the descriptor tells the system that the headword ofthe dictionary (cdm-headword) is to be foundby applying the specified xpath10 to the dictionarystructure.With this set of metadata, the system knowsthat:10an xpath is a standard way to extract a sub-part of anyXML structure941Figure 7: Advanced search interface?
requests on French should be directed to theLexALP fra volume,?
the requested headword will be found in thetext of the term element of the volumeentry element,Hence, the system can easily perform a requestand retrieve the desired XML entries.
The onlyremaining step is to produce a presentation forthe user, based on the retrieved entries.
This isachieved by way of a xsl11 stylesheet.
Thisstylesheet is specified either on the dictionary level(for common presentations) or on the volume level(for volume specific presentation).In the given example, the dictionary adminis-trator provided two presentations called LexALP(the default one, as shown in figure 10) andshort-list, both of them defined in the dic-tionary descriptor.This mechanism allows for the definition of pre-sentation outputs in xhtml (for online browsing)or for presentation output in pdf (for dictionaryexport and print).4.3 Dictionary EditionThe second main service provided by the Jibikiplatform is to allow terminologists to collabora-tively develop the envisaged dictionary.
In thissense, Jibiki is quite unique as it federates, on thevery same platform the construction and diffusionof a structured dictionary.As before, Jibiki may be used to edit any dictio-nary.
Hence, it needs some metadata informationin order to work:?
the complete definition of the dictionary entrystructures by way of an XML schema,?
a template describing an empty entry struc-ture,11XSL is a standard way to transform an XML structureinto another structure (XML or not).Current XMLstructureEmptyXHTML formInstanciate FormInstanciatedXHTML formOnline editionNetworkCGI decodingFigure 11: Basic flow chart of the editing service?
a xhtml form used to edit a dictionary entrystructure (which can be adapted from an au-tomatically generated one).When this information is known, the Jibiki plat-form provides a specific web page to edit a dictio-nary entry structure.
As shown in figure 11, theXML structure is projected into the given emptyXHTML form.
This form is served as a standardweb page on the client browser.
After manual edit-ing, the resulting form is sent back to the Jibikiplatform as CGI12 data.
The Jibiki platform de-codes this data and modifies the edited XML struc-ture accordingly.
Then the process iterates as longas necessary.
Figure 12 shows an example of sucha dynamically created web page.After each update, the resulting XML structureis stored in the dictionary database.
However, itis not available to other users until it is marked asfinished by the contributor (by clicking on thesave button).
If the contributor leaves the webpage without saving the entry, he will be able toretrieve it and finish his contribution later.12Common Gateway Interface942Figure 10: Query result presentation interfaceFigure 12: Edition interface of a LexALP French entry943At each step of the contribution (after each up-date) and at each step of dictionary editing (aftereach save), the previous state is saved and the con-tributor (or the dictionary administrator) is able tobrowse the history of changes and to revert the en-try to a previous version.5 ConclusionIn this article we give some details on the way theJibiki platform allows the diffusion and the onlineediting of a dictionary, regardless of his structure(monolingual, bilingual (directed or not) or multi-lingual (multi-bilingual or pivot based)).Initially developed to support the editing of thePapillon multilingual dictionary13, the Jibiki plat-form proved useful for the development of othervery different dictionaries.
It is currently used forthe development of the GDEF (Grand DictionnaireEstonien-Franc?ais) project14 an Estonian Frenchbilingual dictionary.
This article also shows theuse of the platform for the development of a Eu-ropean term bank for legal terms on spatial plan-ning and sustainable development in the LexALPproject.Adapting the Jibiki platform to a new dictio-nary requires the definition of several metadata in-formation, taking the form of several XML files.While not trivial, this metadata definition does notrequire any competence in computer development.This adaptation may therefore also be done by ex-perimented linguists.
Moreover, when the dictio-nary microstructure needs to evolve, this evolu-tion does not require any programming.
Hence theJibiki platform gives linguists great liberty in theirdecisions.Another positive aspect of Jibiki is that it inte-grates diffusion and editing services on the sameplatform.
This allows for a tighter collaborationbetween linguists and users and also allows for theinvolvement of motivated users to the editing pro-cess.The Jibiki platform is freely available for use byany willing team of lexicographer/terminologists,provided that the resulting dictionary data will befreely available for online browsing.In this article, we also presented the choicesmade by the LexALP consortium to structure aterm bank used for the description and harmonisa-tion of legal terms in the domain of spacial plan-13http://www.papillon-dictionary.org/14http://estfra.ee/ning and sustainable development of the AlpineSpace.
In such a domain, classical techniquesused in multilingual terminology cannot be usedas the term cannot be defined by reference to a sta-ble/shared semantic level (each country having itsown set of non-equivalent legal concepts).ReferencesReiner Arntz.
1993.
Terminological equivalenceand translation.
In H. Sonneveld and K. Loen-ing, editors, Terminology.
Applications in Interdisci-plinary Communication, pages 5?19.
Amsterdam etPhiladelphia, John Benjamins Publishing Company.Helmut Felber, 1987.
Manuel de terminologie.
UN-ESCO, Paris.Helmut Felber.
1994.
Terminology research: Its rela-tion to the theory of science.
ALFA, 8(7):163?172.Mathieu Mangeot, Gilles Se?rasset, and MathieuLafourcade.
2003.
Construction collaborative d?unebase lexicale multilingue, le projet Papillon.
TAL,44(2):151?176.Mathieu Mangeot.
2001.
Environnements centralise?set distribue?s pour lexicographes et lexicologues encontexte multilingue.
The`se de nouveau doctorat,spe?cialite?
informatique, Universite?
Joseph FourierGrenoble I, Septembre.Gilles Se?rasset.
1994.
Interlingual lexical organi-sation for multilingual lexical databases in nadia.In Makoto Nagao, editor, COLING-94, volume 1,pages 278?282, August.Gilles Se?rasset.
2004.
A generic collaborative plat-form for multilingual lexical database development.In Gilles Se?rasset, editor, COLING 2004 Multilin-gual Linguistic Resources, pages 73?79, Geneva,Switzerland, August 28.
COLING.Oliver Streiter, Leonhard Voltmer, Isabella Ties, andNatascia Ralli.
2004.
BISTRO, the online plat-form for terminology management: structuring ter-minology without entry structures.
In The transla-tion of domain specific languages and multilingualterminology, number 3 in Linguistica Antverpien-sia New Series.
Hoger Instituut voor Vertalers enTolken, Hogeschool Antwerpen.Oliver Streiter, Leonhard Voltmer, Isabella Ties, Natas-cia Ralli, and Verena Lyding.
2006.
BISTRO: Datastructure, term tools and interface.
Terminology Sci-ence and Research, 16.944
