Proceedings of the COLING/ACL 2006 Interactive Presentation Sessions, pages 61?64,Sydney, July 2006. c?2006 Association for Computational LinguisticsTwicPen : Hand-held Scanner and Translation Software for non-NativeReadersEric WehrliLATL-Dept.
of LinguisticsUniversity of GenevaEric.Wehrli@lettres.unige.chAbstractTwicPen is a terminology-assistance sys-tem for readers of printed (ie.
off-line)material in foreign languages.
It consistsof a hand-held scanner and sophisticatedparsing and translation software to providereaders a limited number of translationsselected on the basis of a linguistic analy-sis of the whole scanned text fragment (aphrase, part of the sentence, etc.).
The useof a morphological and syntactic parsermakes it possible (i) to disambiguate toa large extent the word selected by theuser (and hence to drastically reduce thenoise in the response), and (ii) to handleexpressions (compounds, collocations, id-ioms), often a major source of difficultyfor non-native readers.
The system existsfor the following language-pairs: English-French, French-English, German-Frenchand Italian-French.1 IntroductionAs a consequence of globalization, a large and in-creasing number of people must cope with docu-ments in a language other than their own.
Whilereaders who do not know the language can findhelp with machine translation services, peoplewho have a basic fluency in the language whilestill experiencing some terminological difficultiesdo not want a full translation but rather more spe-cific help for an unknown term or an opaque ex-pression.
Such typical users are the huge crowdof students and scientists around the world whoroutinely browse documents in English on the In-ternet or elsewhere.
For on-line documents, a va-riety of terminological tools are available, someof them commercially, such as the ones providedby Google (word translation services) or BabylonLtd.
More advanced, research-oriented systemsbased on computational linguistics technologieshave also been developed, such as GLOSSER-RuG (Nerbonne et al 1996, 1999), Compass(Breidt et al, 1997) or TWiC (Wehrli, 2003,2004).Similar needs are less easy to satisfy whenit comes to more traditional documents such asbooks and other printed material.
Multilingualscanning devices have been commercialized1, butthey lack the computational linguistic resources tomake them truly useful.
The shortcomings of suchsystems are particularly blatant with inflected lan-guages, or with compound-rich languages such asGerman, while the inadequate treatment of multi-word expressions is obvious for all languages.TwicPen has been designed to overcome theseshortcomings and intends to provide readers ofprinted material with the same kind and quality ofterminological help as is available for on-line doc-uments.
For concreteness, we will take our typicaluser to be a French-speaking reader with knowl-edge of English and German reading printed ma-terial, for instance a novel or a technical document,in English or in German.For such a user, German vocabulary is likelyto be a major source of difficulty due in part toits opacity (for non-Germanic language speakers),the richness of its inflection and, above all, thenumber and the complexity of its compounds, asexemplified in figure 1 below.21The three main text scanner manufacturers areWhizcom Technologies (http://www.whizcomtech.com),C-Pen (http://www.cpen.com) and Iris Pen(http://www.irislink.com).2See the discussion on ?The Longest German Word?
onhttp://german.about.com/library/blwort long.htm.61This paper will describe the TwicPen system,showing how an in-depth linguistic analysis ofthe sentence in which a problematic word occurshelps to provide a relevant answer to the reader.We will show, in particular, that the advantage ofsuch an approach over a more traditional bilin-gual terminology system is (i) to reduce the noisewith a better selection (disambiguation) of thesource word, (ii) to provide in-depth morpholog-ical analysis and (iii) to handle multi-word ex-pressions (compounds, collocations, idioms), evenwhen the terms of the expression are not adjacent.2 Overview of TwicPenThe TwicPen system is a natural follow-up ofTWiC (Translation of Words in Context), (seeWehrli, 2003, 2004), which is a system for on-line terminological help based on a full linguisticanalysis of the source material.
TwicPen uses avery similar technology, but is available on per-sonal computers (or even PDAs) and uses a hand-held scanner to get the input material.
In otherwords, TwicPen consists of (i) a simple hand-heldscanner and (ii) parsing and translation software.TwicPen functions as follows :?
The user scans a fragment of text, which canbe as short as one word or as long as a wholesentence or even a whole paragraph.?
The text appears in the user interface of theTwicPen system and is immediately parsedand tagged by the Fips parser described in thenext section.?
The user can either position the cursor on thespecific word for which help is requested, ornavigate word by word in the sentence.?
For each word, the system retrieves from thetagged information the relevant lexeme andconsults a bilingual dictionary to get one orseveral translations, which are then displayedin the user interface.Figure 1 shows the user interface.
The input textis the well-known German compound discussedby Kay et al (1994) reproduced in (1):(1) LebensversicherungsgesellschaftsangestellterLeben(s)-versicherung(s)-gesellschaft(s)-angestellterlife-insurance-company-employeeSuch examples are not at all uncommon in Ger-man, in particular in administrative or technicaldocuments.Figure 1: TwicPen user interface with a GermancompoundNotice that the word Versicherungsgesellschaft(English insurance company and French com-pagnie d?assurance), which is a compound, hasnot been analyzed.
This is due to the fact that,like many common compounds, it has been lexi-calized.3 The Fips parserFips is a robust multilingual parser which is basedon generative grammar concepts for its linguis-tic component and object-oriented design for itsimplementation.
It uses a bottom-up parsing al-gorithm with parallel treatment of alternatives, aswell as heuristics to rank alternatives (and cut theirnumbers when necessary).The syntactic structures built by Fips are allof the same pattern, that is : [ XP L X R ],where L stands for the possibly empty list of leftconstituents, X for the (possibly empty) head ofthe phrase and R for the (possibly empty) listof right constituents.
The possible values for Xare the usual part of speech Adverb, Adjective,Noun, Determiner, Verb, Tense, Preposition,Complementizer, Interjection.The parser makes use of 3 fundamental mecha-nisms : projection, merge and move.3.1 ProjectionThe projection mechanism assigns a fully devel-oped structure to each incoming word, based ontheir category and other inherent properties.
Thus,a common noun is directly projected to an NP62structure, with the noun as its head, an adjectiveto an AP structure, a preposition to a PP struc-ture, and so on.
We assume that pronouns and,in some languages proper nouns, project to a DPstructure (as illustrated in (2a).
Furthermore, theoccurrence of a tensed verb triggers a more elabo-rate projection, since a whole TP-VP structure willbe assigned.
For instance, in French, tensed verbsoccur in T position, as illustrated in (2b):(2)a.
[ DP Paul ], [ DP elle ]b.
[ TP mangesi [ VP ei ] ]3.2 MergeThe merge mechanism combines two adjacentconstituents, A and B, either by attaching con-stituent A as a left constituent of B, or by attach-ing B as a right constituent of any active node ofA (an active node is one that can still accept sub-constituents).Merge operations are constrained by various,mostly language-specific, conditions which can bedescribed by means of procedural rules.
Thoserules are stated in a pseudo formalism which at-tempts to be both intuitive for linguists and rela-tively straightforward to code (for the time being,this is done manually).
The conditions take theform of boolean functions, as described in (3) forleft attachments and in (4) for right attachments,where a and b refer, respectively, to the first and tothe second constituent of a merge operation.
(3) D + Ta.AgreeWith(b,{number,person})a.IsArgumentOf(b,subject)Rule 3 states that a DP constituent (ie.
a tra-ditional noun phrase) can (left-)merge with a TPconstituent (ie.
an inflected verb phrase con-stituent) if (i) both constituents agree in numberand person and (ii) the DP constituent can be in-terpreted as the subject of the TP constituent.(4)a.
D + Na.HasSelectionFeature(Ncomplement)b.HasFeature(commonNoun)a.AgreeWith(b,{number,gender})b. V + Da.HasFeature(mainVerb)b.IsArgumentOf(a, directObject)Rule (4a) states that a common noun can be(right-)attached to a determiner phrase, under theconditions (i) that the head of the DP bears the se-lectional feature [+Ncomplement] (ie.
the de-terminer selects a noun), and (ii) the determinerand the noun agree in gender and number.
Finally,rule (4b) allows the attachment of a DP as a rightsubconstituent of a verb (i) if the verb is not anauxiliary or modal (ie.
it is a main verb) and (ii) ifthe DP can be interpreted as a direct object argu-ment of the verb.3.3 MoveAlthough the general architecture of surface struc-tures results from the combination of projectionand merge operations, an additional mechanism isnecessary to handle so-called extraposed elementsand link them to empty constituents (noted e in thestructural representation below) in canonical posi-tions, thereby creating a chain between the base(canonical) position and the surface (extraposed)position of the ?moved?
constituent as illustratedin the following example:(5)a. who did you invite ?b.
[ CP [ DP who]ididj [ TP [ DP you ] ej [ VPinvite[ DP e]i ] ] ]4 Multi-word expressionsPerhaps the most advanced feature of TwicPen isits ability to handle multiword expressions (id-ioms, collocations), including those in which theelements of the expression are not immediatelyadjacent to each other.
Consider the French verb-object collocation battre-record (break-record), il-lustrated in (6a, b), as well as in the figure 3.(6)a.
Paul a battu le record national.Paul broke the national recordb.
L?ancien record de Bob Hayes a finalemente?te?
battu.Bob Hayes?
old record was finally broken.The collocation is relatively easy to identify in(6a), where the verb and the direct object nounare almost adjacent and occur in the expected or-der.
It is of course much harder to spot in the (6b)sentence, where the order is reversed (due to pas-sivization) and the distance between the two ele-ments of the collocation is seven words.
Never-theless, as Figure 3 shows, TwicPen is capable ofidentifying the collocation.The screenshot given in Figure 3 shows that theuser selected the word battu, which is a form of63Figure 2: Example of a collocationthe transitive verb battre, as indicated in the baseform field of the user interface.
This lexeme iscommonly translated into English as to beat, tobang, to rattle, etc..
However, the collocationfield shows that battu in that sentence is part ofthe collocation battre-record which is translated asbreak-record.The ability of TwicPen to handle expressionscomes from the quality of the linguistic analysisprovided by the multilingual Fips parser and of thecollocation knowledge base (Seretan et al, 2004).A sample analysis is given in (7b), showing howextraposed elements are connected with canoni-cal empty positions, as assumed by generative lin-guists.(7)a.
The record that John broke was old.b.
[ TP [ DP the [ NP recordi [ CP thati [ TP [ DPJohn ] [ VP broke [ DP e]i ] ] ] ] ] [ VP was[ AP old ] ] ]In this analysis, notice that the noun record iscoindexed with the relative pronoun that, which inturn is coindexed with the empty direct object ofthe verb broke.
Given this antecedent-trace chain,it is relatively easy for the system to identify theverb-object collocation break-record.5 ConclusionDemand for terminological tools for readers ofmaterial in a foreign language, either on-line oroff-line, is likely to increase with the developmentof global, multilingual societies.
The TwicPensystem presented in this paper has been developedfor readers of printed material.
They scan the sen-tence (or a fragment of it) containing a word thatthey don?t understand and the system will display(on their laptop) a short list of translations.
Wehave argued that the use of a linguistic parser insuch a system brings several major benefits for theword translation task, such as (i) determining thecitation form of the word, (ii) drastically reduc-ing word ambiguities, and (iii) identifying multi-words expressions even when their constituentsare not adjacent to each other.AcknowledgementThanks to Luka Nerima and Antonio Leoni de Lenfor their suggestions and comments.
The researchdescribed in this paper has been supported in partby a grant for the Swiss National Science Founda-tion (No 101412-103999).6 ReferencesBreidt, E. and H. Feldweg, 1997.
?Accessing For-eign Languages with COMPASS?, MachineTranslation, 12:1-2, 153-174.Kay, M., M. Gawron and P. Norvig, 1994.
Verb-mobil : A Translation System for Face-to-Face Dialog, Lecture Notes 33, Stanford,CSLI.Nerbonne, J. and P. Smit, 1996.
?GLOSSER-RuG: in Support of Reading in Proceedingsof COLING-1996, 830-835.Nerbonne, J. and D. Dokter, 1999.
?An IntelligentWord-Based Language Learning Assistant inTAL 40:1, 125-142.Seretan V., Nerima L. and E. Wehrli, 2004.?Multi-word collocation extraction by syn-tactic composition of collocation bigrams?,in Nicolas Nicolov et al (eds), Recent Ad-vances in Natural Language Processing III:Selected Papers from RANLP 2003, Amster-dam, John Benjamins, 91-100.Wehrli, E. 2003.
?Translation of Words in Con-text?, Proceedings of MT-Summit IX, NewOrleans, 502-504.Wehrli, E. 2004.
?Traduction, traduction de mots,traduction de phrases?, in B. Bel et I.
Marlien(eds.
), Proceedings of TALN XI, Fes, 483-491.64
