Proceedings of the 21st International Conference on Computational Linguistics and 44th Annual Meeting of the ACL, pages 945?952,Sydney, July 2006. c?2006 Association for Computational LinguisticsLeveraging Reusability: Cost-effective Lexical Acquisitionfor Large-scale Ontology TranslationG.
Craig MurrayBonnie J. DorrJimmy LinInstitute for Advanced Computer StudiesUniversity of Maryland{gcraigm,bdorr,jimmylin}@umd.eduJan Haji?Pavel PecinaInstitute for Formal and Applied LinguisticsCharles University{hajic,pecina}@ufal.mff.cuni.czAbstractThesauri and ontologies provide impor-tant value in facilitating access to digitalarchives by representing underlying prin-ciples of organization.
Translation ofsuch resources into multiple languages isan important component for providingmultilingual access.
However, the speci-ficity of vocabulary terms in most on-tologies precludes fully-automated ma-chine translation using general-domainlexical resources.
In this paper, we pre-sent an efficient process for leveraginghuman translations when constructingdomain-specific lexical resources.
Weevaluate the effectiveness of this processby producing a probabilistic phrase dic-tionary and translating a thesaurus of56,000 concepts used to catalogue a largearchive of oral histories.
Our experi-ments demonstrate a cost-effective tech-nique for accurate machine translation oflarge ontologies.1 IntroductionMultilingual access to digital collections is animportant problem in today?s increasingly inter-connected world.
Although technologies such ascross-language information retrieval and ma-chine translation help humans access informationthey could not otherwise find or understand, theyare often inadequate for highly specific domains.Most digital collections of any significant sizeuse a system of organization that facilitates easyaccess to collection contents.
Generally, the or-ganizing principles are captured in the form of acontrolled vocabulary of keyword phrases (de-scriptors) representing specific concepts.
Thesedescriptors are usually arranged in a hierarchicthesaurus or ontology, and are assigned to collec-tion items as a means of providing access (eithervia searching for keyword phases, browsing thehierarchy, or a combination both).
MeSH (Medi-cal Subject Headings) serves as a good exampleof such an ontology; it is a hierarchically-arranged collection of controlled vocabularyterms manually assigned to medical abstracts in anumber of databases.
It provides multilingualaccess to the contents of these databases, butmaintaining translations of such a complex struc-ture is challenging (Nelson, et al 2004).For the most part, research in multilingual in-formation access focuses on the content of digitalrepositories themselves, often neglecting signifi-cant knowledge that is explicitly encoded in theassociated ontologies.
However, informationsystems cannot utilize such ontologies by simplyapplying off-the-shelf machine translation.
Gen-eral-purpose translation resources provide insuf-ficient coverage of the vocabulary containedwithin these domain-specific ontologies.This paper tackles the question of how onemight efficiently translate a large-scale ontologyto facilitate multilingual information access.
Ifwe need humans to assist in the translation proc-ess, how can we maximize access while mini-mizing cost?
Because human translation is asso-ciated with a certain cost, it is preferable not toincur costs of retranslation whenever compo-nents of translated text are reused.
Moreover,when exhaustive human translation is not practi-cal, the most ?useful?
components should betranslated first.
Identifying reusable elementsand prioritizing their translation based on utilityis essential to maximizing effectiveness and re-ducing cost.945We present a process of prioritized translationthat balances the issues discussed above.
Ourwork is situated in the context of the MALACHproject, an NSF-funded effort to improve multi-lingual information access to large archives ofspoken language (Gustman, et al, 2002).
Ourprocess leverages a small set of manually-acquired English-Czech translations to translate alarge ontology of keyword phrases, thereby pro-viding Czech speakers access to 116,000 hoursof video testimonies in 32 languages.
Startingfrom an initial out-of-vocabulary (OOV) rate of85%, we show that a small set of prioritizedtranslations can be elicited from human infor-mants, aligned, decomposed and then recom-bined to cover 90% of the access value in a com-plex ontology.
Moreover, we demonstrate thatprioritization based on hierarchical position andfrequency of use facilitates extremely efficientreuse of human input.
Evaluations show that ourtechnique is able to boost performance of a sim-ple translation system by 65%.2 The ProblemThe USC Shoah Foundation Institute for Vis-ual History and Education manages what is pres-ently the world's largest archive of videotapedoral histories (USC, 2006).
The archive contains116,000 hours of video from the testimonies ofover 52,000 survivors, liberators, rescuers andwitnesses of the Holocaust.
If viewed end toend, the collection amounts to 13 years of con-tinuous video.
The Shoah Foundation uses a hi-erarchically arranged thesaurus of 56,000 key-word phrases representing domain-specific con-cepts.
These are assigned to time-points in thevideo testimonies as a means of indexing thevideo content.
Although the testimonies in thecollection represent 32 different languages, thethesaurus used to catalog them is currently avail-able only in English.
Our task was to translatethis resource to facilitate multilingual access,with Czech as the first target language.Our first pass at automating thesaurus transla-tion revealed that only 15% of the words in thevocabulary could be found in an availablealigned corpus (?mejrek, et al, 2004).
The restof the vocabulary was not available from generalresources.
Lexical information for translatingthese terms had to be acquired from human in-put.
Reliable access to digital archives requiresaccuracy.
Highly accurate human translationsincur a cost that is generally proportional to thenumber of words being translated.
However, thekeyword phrases in the Shoah Foundation?s ar-chive occur in a Zipfian distribution?a rela-tively small number of terms provide access to alarge portion of the video content.
Similarly, agreat number of highly specific terms describeonly a small fraction of content.
Therefore, notevery keyword phrase in the thesaurus carries thesame value for access to the archive.
The hierar-chical arrangement of keyword phrases presentsanother issue: some concepts, while not of greatvalue for access to segments of video, may beimportant for organizing other concepts and forbrowsing the hierarchy.
These factors must bebalanced in developing a cost-effective processthat maximizes utility.3 Our SolutionThis paper presents a prioritized human-in-the-loop approach to translating large-scale ontolo-gies that is fast, efficient, and cost effective.
Us-ing this approach, we collected 3,000 manualtranslations of keyword phrases and reused thetranslated terms to generate a lexicon for auto-mated translation of the rest of the thesaurus.The process begins by prioritizing keywordphrases for manual translation in terms of theirvalue in accessing the collection and the reus-ability of their component terms.
Translationscollected from one human informant are thenchecked and aligned to the original English termsby a second informant.
From these alignmentswe induce a probabilistic English-Czech phrasedictionary.To test the effectiveness of this process weimplemented a simple translation system thatutilizes the newly generated lexical resources.Section 4 reports on two evaluations of the trans-lation output that quantify the effectiveness ofour human-in-the-loop approach.3.1 Maximizing Value and ReusabilityTo quantify their utility, we defined two valuesfor each keyword phrase in the thesaurus: a the-saurus value, representing the importance of thekeyword phrase for providing access to the col-lection, and a translation value, representing theusefulness of having the keyword phrase trans-lated.
These values are not identical, but thesecond is related to the first.Thesaurus value: Keyword phrases in theShoah Foundation?s thesaurus are arranged into apoly-hierarchy in which child nodes may havemultiple parents.
Internal (non-leaf) nodes of thehierarchy are used to organize concepts and sup-port concept browsing.
Some internal nodes arealso used to index video content.
Leaf nodes are946very specific and are only used to index videocontent.
Thus, the usefulness of any keywordphrase for providing access to the digital collec-tion is directly related to the concept?s position inthe thesaurus hierarchy.A fragment of the hierarchy is shown in Fig-ure 1.
The keyword phrase ?Auschwitz II-Birkenau (Poland: Death Camp)?, which de-scribes a Nazi death camp, is assigned to 17,555video segments in the collection.
It has broader(parent) terms and narrower (child) terms.
Someof the broader and narrower terms are also as-signed to segments, but not all.
Notably, ?Ger-man death camps?
is not assigned to any videosegments.
However, ?German death camps?
hasvery important narrower terms including?Auschwitz II-Birkenau?
and others.From this example, we can see that an internalnode is valuable in providing access to its chil-dren, even if the keyword phrase itself is not as-signed to any segments.
The value we assign toany term must reflect this fact.
If we were toreduce cost by translating only the nodes as-signed to video segments, we would neglectnodes that are crucial for browsing.
However, ifwe value a node by the sum value of all its chil-dren, grandchildren, etc., the resulting calcula-tion would bias the top of the hierarchy.
Anyprioritization based on this method would lead totranslation of the top of the hierarchy first.Given limited resources, leaf nodes might neverbe translated.
Support for searching and brows-ing calls for different approaches to prioritization.To strike a balance between these factors, wecalculate a thesaurus value, which represents theimportance of each keyword phrase to the the-saurus as a whole.
This value is computed as:( ) ( )kchildrenhscounth kchildreni ikk?
?+= )(For leaf nodes in our thesaurus, this value is sim-ply the number of video segments to which theconcept has been assigned.
For parent nodes, thethesaurus value is the number of segments (ifany) to which the node has been assigned, plusthe average of the thesaurus value of any childnodes.This recursive calculation yields a micro-averaged value that represents the reachability ofsegments via downward edge traversals from agiven node in the hierarchy.
That is, it gives akind of weighted value for the number of seg-ments described by a given keyword phrase or itsnarrower-term keyword phrases.For example, in Figure 2 each of the leafnodes n3, n4, and n5 have values based solely onthe number of segments to which they are as-signed.
Node n1 has value both as an access pointto the segments at s2 and as an access point to thekeyword phrases at nodes n3 and n4.
Other inter-nal nodes, such as n2 have value only in provid-ing access to other nodes/keyword phrases.Working from the bottom of the hierarchy up tothe primary node (n0) we can compute the the-saurus value for each node in the hierarchy.
Inour example, we start with nodes n3 through n5,counting the number of the segments that havebeen assigned each keyword phrase.
Then wemove up to nodes n1 and n2.
At n1 we count thenumber of segments s2 to which n1 was assignedand add that count to the average of the thesau-rus values for n3, and n4.
At n2 we simply aver-age the thesaurus values for n4 and n5.
The finalvalues quantify how valuable the translation ofany given keyword phrase would be in providingaccess to video segments.Translation value: After obtaining the the-saurus value for each node, we can compute thetranslation value for each word in the vocabularyFigure 2.
Bottom-up micro-averagingFigure 1.
Sample keyword phrasewith broader and narrower termsAuschwitz II-Birkenau (Poland : Death Camp)Assigned to 17555 video segmentsHas as broader term phrases:Cracow (Poland : Voivodship)[ 534 narrower terms] [ 204 segments]German death camps[  6 narrower terms] [ 0 segments]Has seven narrower term phrases including:Block 25 (Auschwitz II-Birkenau)[leaf node] [ 35 segments]Kanada (Auschwitz II-Birkenau)[leaf node] [ 378 segments]...disinfection chamber (Auschwitz II-Birkenau)[leaf node] [ 9 segments]primarykeywordsegmentsn2n4 n3n0n5keywordphrasess2n1s1 s3 s4947as the sum of the thesaurus value for every key-word phrase that contains that word:tw= ???
wkkh   where Kw={x | phrase x contains w}For example, the word ?Auschwitz?
occurs in 35concepts.
As a candidate for translation, it car-ries a large impact, both in terms of the numberof keyword phrases that contains this word, andthe potential value of those keyword phrases(once they are translated) in providing access tosegments in the archive.
The end result is a listof vocabulary words and the impact that correcttranslation of each word would have on the over-all value of the translated thesaurus.We elicited human translations of entire key-word phrases rather than individual vocabularyterms.
Having humans translate individualwords without their surrounding context wouldhave been less efficient.
Also, the value anykeyword phrase holds for translation is only indi-rectly related to its own value as a point of accessto the collection (i.e., its thesaurus value).
Somekeyword phrases contain words with high trans-lation value, but the keyword phrase itself haslow thesaurus value.
Thus, the value gained bytranslating any given phrase is more accuratelyestimated by the total value of any untranslatedwords it contains.
Therefore, we prioritized theorder of keyword phrase translations based onthe translation value of the untranslated words ineach keyword phrase.Our next step was to iterate through the the-saurus keyword phrases, prioritizing their trans-lation based on the assumption that any wordscontained in a keyword phrase of higher prioritywould already have been translated.
Startingfrom the assumption that the entire thesaurus isuntranslated, we select the one keyword phrasethat contains the most valuable un-translatedwords?we simply add up the translation valueof all the untranslated words in each keywordphrase, and select the keyword phrase with thehighest value.
We add this keyword phrase to aprioritized list of items to be manually translatedand we remove it from the list of untranslatedphrases.
We update our vocabulary list and, as-suming translations of all the words in the priorkeyword phrase to now be translated (neglectingissues such as morphology), we again select thekeyword phrase that contains the most valuableuntranslated words.
We iterate the process untilall vocabulary terms have been included at leastone keyword phrases on the prioritized list.
Ul-timately we end up with an ordered list of thekeyword phrases that should be translated tocover the entire vocabulary, with the most impor-tant words being covered first.A few words about additional characteristicsof this approach: note that it is greedy and biasedtoward longer keyword phrases.
As a result,some words may be translated more than oncebecause they appear in more than one keywordphrase with high translation value.
This sideeffect is actually desirable.
To build an accuratetranslation dictionary, it is helpful to have morethan one translation of frequently occuring words,especially for morphologically rich languagessuch as Czech.
Our technique makes the opera-tional assumption that translations of a wordgathered in one context can be reused in anothercontext.
Obviously this is not always true, butcontexts of use are relatively stable in controlledvocabularies.
Our evaluations address the ac-ceptability of this operational assumption anddemonstrate that the technique yields acceptabletranslations.Following this process model, the most impor-tant elements of the thesaurus will be translatedfirst, and the most important vocabulary termswill quickly become available for automatedtranslation of keyword phrases with high thesau-rus value that do not make it onto the prioritizedlist for manual translation (i.e., low translationvalue).
The overall access value of the thesaurusrises very quickly after initial translations.
Witheach subsequent human translation of keywordphrases on the prioritized list, we gain tremen-dous value in terms of providing non-Englishaccess to the collection of video testimonies.Figure 3 shows this rate of gain.
It can be seenthat prioritization based on translation valuegives a much higher yield of total access thanprioritization based on thesaurus value.Figure 3.
Gain rate of access value based onnumber of human translationsGain rate of prioritized translation schemes0%20%40%60%80%100%0 500 1000 1500 2000number of translationspercent of total accessvaluepriority by thesaurus value priority by translation value9483.2 Alignment and DecompositionFollowing the prioritization scheme above, weobtained professional translations for the top3000 English keyword phrases.
We tokenizedthese translations and presented them to anotherbilingual Czech speaker for verification andalignment.
This second informant marked eachCzech word in a translated keyword phrase witha link to the equivalent English word(s).
Multi-ple links were used to convey the relationshipbetween a single word in one language and astring of words in another.
The output of thealignment process was then used to build a prob-abilistic dictionary of words and phrases.Figure 4.
Sample alignmentFigure 4 shows an example of an alignedtranlsation.
The word ?stills?
is recorded as atranslation for ?statick?
sn?mky?
and ?kl?
?tery?is recorded as a translation for ?convents andmonasteries.?
We count the number of occur-rences of each alignment in all of the translationsand calculate probabilities for each Czech wordor phrase given an English word or phrase.
Forexample, in the top 3000 keyword phrases?stills?
appears 29 times.
It was aligned with?statick?
sn?mky?
28 times and only once with?statick?
z?b?ry?, giving us a translation prob-ability of 28/29=0.9655 for ?statick?
sn?mky?.Human translation of the 3000 English key-word phrases into Czech took approximately 70hours, and the alignments took 55 hours.
Theoverall cost of human input (translation andalignment) was less than 1000 ?.
The projectedcost of full translation for the entire thesauruswould have been close to 20000 ?
and would nothave produced any reusable resources.
Naturally,costs for building resources in this manner willvary, but in our case the cost savings is approxi-mately twenty fold.3.3 Machine TranslationTo demonstrate the effectiveness of our approach,we show that a probabilistic dictionary, inducedthrough the process we just described, facilitateshigh quality machine translation of the rest of thethesaurus.
We evaluated translation quality us-ing a relatively simple translation system.
How-ever, more sophisticated systems can draw equalbenefit from the same lexical resources.Our translation system implemented a greedycoverage algorithm with a simple back-off strat-egy.
It first scans the English input to find thelongest matching substring in our dictionary, andreplaces it with the most likely Czech translation.Building on the example above, the system looksup ?monasteries and convents stills?
in the dic-tionary, finds no translation, and backs off to?monasteries and convents?, which is translatedto ?kl??tery?.
Had this phrase translation notbeen found, the system would have attempted tofind a match for the individual tokens.
Failing amatch in our dictionary, the system then backsoff to the Prague Czech-English DependencyTreebank dictionary, a much larger dictionarywith broader scope.
If no match is found in ei-ther dictionary for the full token, we stem thetoken and look for matches based on the stem.Finally, tokens whose translations can not befound are simply passed through untranslated.A minimal set of heuristic rules was applied toreordering the Czech tokens but the output isprimarily phrase by phrase/word by word transla-tion.
Our evaluation scores below will partiallyreflect the simplicity of our system.
Our systemis simple by design.
Any improvement or degra-dation to the input of our system has direct influ-ence on the output.
Thus, measures of transla-tion accuracy for our system can be directly in-terpreted as quality measures for the lexical re-sources used and the process by which they weredeveloped.4 EvaluationWe performed two different types of evaluationto validate our process.
First, we compared oursystem output to human reference translationsusing Bleu (Papineni, et al, 2002), a widely-accepted objective metric for evaluation of ma-chine translations.
Second, we showed correctedand uncorrected machine translations to Czechspeakers and collected subjective judgments offluency and accuracy.For evaluation purposes, we selected 418keyword phrases to be used as target translations.These phrases were selected using a stratifiedsampling technique so that different levels ofthesaurus value would be represented.
Therewas no overlap between these keyword phrasesand the 3000 prioritized keyword phrases used tobuild our lexicon.
Prior to machine translationwe obtained at least two independent human-generated reference translations for each of the418 keyword phrases.monasteries convents and stills ( )statick?
kl?
?tery sn?mky ( )949After collecting the first 2500 prioritizedtranslations, we induced a probabilistic diction-ary and generated machine translations of the418 target keyword phrases.
These were thencorrected by native Czech speakers, who ad-justed word order, word choice, and morphology.We use this set of human-corrected machinetranslations as a second reference for evaluation.Measuring the difference between our uncor-rected machine translations (MT) and the human-generated reference establishes how accurate ourtranslations are compared to an independentlyestablished target.
Measuring the difference be-tween our MT and the human-corrected machinetranslations (corrected MT) establishes how ac-ceptable our translations are.
We also measuredthe difference between corrected MT and thehuman-generated translations.
We take this to bean upper bound on realistic system performance.The results from our objective evaluation areshown in Figure 5.
Each set of bars in the graphshows performance after adding a different num-ber of aligned translations into the lexicon (i.e.,performance after adding 500, 1000, ..., 3000aligned translations.)
The zero condition is ourbaseline: translations generated using only thedictionary available in the Prague Czech-EnglishDependency Treebank.
Three different referencesets are shown: human-generated, corrected MT,and a combination of the two.There is a notable jump in Bleu score after thevery first translations are added into our prob-abilistic dictionary.
Without any elicitation andalignment we got a baseline score of 0.46(against the human-generated reference transla-tions).
After the aligned terms from only 500translations were added to our dictionary, ourBleu score rose to 0.66.
After aligned termsfrom 3000 translations were added, we achieved0.69.
Using corrected MT as the reference ourBleu scores improve from 0.48 to 0.79.
If hu-man-generated and human-corrected referencesare both considered to be correct translations, theimprovement goes from .49 to .80.
Regardlessof the reference set, there is a consistent per-formance improvement as more and more trans-lations are added.
We found the same trend us-ing the TER metric on a smaller data set(Murray, et al, 2006).
The fact that the Bleuscores continue to rise indicates that our ap-proach is successful in quickly expanding thelexicon with accurate translations.
It is importantto point out that Bleu scores are not meaningfulin an absolute sense; the scores here should beinterpreted with respect to each other.
The trendin scores strongly indicates that our prioritizationscheme is effective for generating a high-qualitytranslation lexicon at relatively low cost.To determine an upper bound on machine per-formance, we compared our corrected MT outputto the initial human-generated reference transla-tions, which were collected prior to machinetranslation.
Corrected MT achieved a Bleu scoreof 0.82 when compared to the human-generatedreference translations.
This upper bound is the?limit?
indicated in Figure 5.To determine the impact of external resources,we removed the Prague Czech-English Depend-ency Treebank dictionary as a back-off resourceand retranslated keyword phrases using only thelexicons induced from our aligned translations.The results of this experiment showed only mar-ginal degradation of the output.
Even when asfew as 500 aligned translations were used for ourdictionary, we still achieved a Bleu score of 0.65against the human reference translations.
Thismeans that even for languages where prior re-sources are not available our prioritizationscheme successfully addresses the OOV problem.In our subjective evaluation, we presented arandom sample of our system output to sevenDistribution of Subjective Judgment Scores0%20%40%60%80%100%1 2 3 4 5 1 2 3 4 5 1 2 3 4 5 1 2 3 4 5fluency accuracy fluency accuracyMT Corrected MTJudgment scoresPercent of scoresBleu Scores After Increasing Translations00.10.20.30.40.50.60.70.80.90 500 1000 1500 2000 2500 3000Number of TranslationsBleu-4corrected human reference both limitFigure 5.
Objective evaluation resultsFigure 6.
Subjective evaluation results950native Czech speakers and collected judgmentsof accuracy and fluency using a 5-point Likertscale (1=good, 3=neutral, 5=bad).
An overviewof the results is presented in Figure 6.
Scores areshown for corrected and uncorrected MT.
In allcases, the mode is 1 (i.e., good fluency and goodaccuracy).
59% of the machine translatedphrases were rated 2 or better for fluency.
66%were rated 2 or better for accuracy.
Only a smallpercentage of the translations had meanings thatwere far from the intended meaning.
Disfluen-cies were primarily due to errors in morphologyand word order.5 Related WorkSeveral studies have taken a knowledge-acquisition approach to collecting multilingualword pairs.
For example, Sadat et al (2003)automatically extracted bilingual word pairsfrom comparable corpora.
This approach isbased on the simple assumption that if two wordsare mutual translations, then their most frequentcollocates are likely to be mutual translations aswell.
However, the approach requires large com-parable corpora, the collection of which presentsnon-trivial challenges.
Others have made similarmutual-translation assumptions for lexical acqui-sition (Echizen-ya, et al, 2005; Kaji & Aizono,1996; Rapp, 1999; Tanaka & Iwasaki, 1996).Most make use of either parallel corpora or abilingual dictionary for the task of bilingual termextraction.
Echizen-ya, et al (2005) avoidedusing a bilingual dictionary, but required a paral-lel corpus to achieve their goal; whereas Fung(2000) and others have relied on pre-existingbilingual dictionaries.
In either case, large bilin-gual resources of some kind are required.
In ad-dition, these approaches focused on the extrac-tion of single-word pairs, not phrasal units.Many recent approaches to dictionary and the-saurus translation are geared toward providingdomain-specific thesauri to specialists in a par-ticular field, e.g., medical terminology (D?jean,et al, 2005) and agricultural terminology (Chun& Wenlin, 2002).
Researchers on these projectsare faced with either finding human translatorswho are specialized enough to manage the do-main-particular translations?or applying auto-matic techniques to large-scale parallel corporawhere data sparsity poses a problem for low-frequency terms.
Data sparsity is also an issuefor more general state-of-the-art bilingual align-ment approaches (Brown, et al, 2000; Och &Ney, 2003; Wantanabe & Sumita, 2003).6 ConclusionThe task of translating large ontologies can berecast as a problem of implementing fast and ef-ficient processes for acquiring task-specific lexi-cal resources.
We developed a method for pri-oritizing keyword phrases from an English the-saurus of concepts and elicited Czech transla-tions for a subset of the keyword phrases.
Fromthese, we decomposed phrase elements for reusein an English-Czech probabilistic dictionary.
Wethen applied the dictionary in machine translationof the rest of the thesaurus.Our results show an overall improvement inmachine translation quality after collecting onlya few hundred human translations.
Translationquality continued to rise as more and more hu-man translations were added.
The test data usedin our evaluations are small relative to the overalltask.
However, we fully expect these results tohold across larger samples and for more sophisti-cated translation systems.We leveraged the reusability of translatedwords to translate a thesaurus of 56,000 keywordphrases using information gathered from only3000 manual translations.
Our probabilistic dic-tionary was acquired at a fraction of the cost ofmanually translating the entire thesaurus.
Byprioritizing human translations based on thetranslation value of the words and the thesaurusvalue of the keyword phrases in which they ap-pear, we optimized the rate of return on invest-ment.
This allowed us to choose a trade-off pointbetween cost and utility.
For this project wechose to stop human translation at a point whereless than 0.01% of the value of the thesauruswould be gained from each additional humantranslation.
This choice produced a high-qualitylexicon with significant positive impact on ma-chine translation systems.
For other applications,a different trade-off point will be appropriate,depending on the initial OOV rate and the impor-tance of detailed coverage.The value of our work lies in the processmodel we developed for cost-effective elicitationof lexical resources.
The metrics we establishedfor assessing the impact of each translation itemare key to our approach.
We use these to opti-mize the value gained from each human transla-tion.
In our case the items were keyword phrasesarranged in a hierarchical thesaurus that de-scribes an ontology of concepts.
The operationalvalue of these keyword phrases was determinedby the access they provide to video segments in alarge archive of oral histories.
However, ourtechnique is not limited to this application.951We have shown that careful prioritization ofelicited human translations facilitates cost-effective thesaurus translation with minimal hu-man input.
Our use of a prioritization schemeaddresses the most important deficiencies in thevocabulary first.
We induced a frameworkwhere the utility of lexical resources gained fromeach additional human translation becomessmaller and smaller.
Under such a framework,choosing the number of human translation toelicit becomes merely a function of the financialresources available for the task.AcknowledgmentsOur thanks to Doug Oard for his contribution tothis work.
Thanks also to our Czech informants:Robert Fischmann, Eliska Kozakova, AlenaPrunerova and Martin Smok; and to SoumyaBhat for her programming efforts.This work was supported in part by NSF IISAward 0122466 and NSF CISE RI AwardEIA0130422.
Additional support also camefrom grants of the MSMT CR #1P05ME786 and#MSM0021620838, and the Grant Agency of theCR #GA405/06/0589.ReferencesBrown, P. F., Della-Pietra, V. J., Della-Pietra, S. A.,& Mercer, R. L. (1993).
The mathematics of statis-tical machine translation: Parameter estimation.Computational Linguistics, 19(2), 263-311.Chun, C., & Wenlin, L. (2002).
The translation ofagricultural multilingual thesaurus.
In Proceedingsof the Third Asian Conference for InformationTechnology in Agriculture.
Beijing, China: ChineseAcademy of Agricultural Sciences (CAAS) andAsian Federation for Information Technology inAgriculture (AFITA).
?mejrek, M., Cu?
?n, J., Havelka, J., Haji?, J., & Ku-bon, V. (2004).
Prague Czech-English dependecytreebank: Syntactically annotated resources for ma-chine translation.
In 4th International Conferenceon Language Resources and Evaluation Lisbon,Portugal.D?jean, H., Gaussier, E., Renders, J.-M., & Sadat, F.(2005).
Automatic processing of multilingualmedical terminology: Applications to thesaurus en-richment and cross-language information retrieval.Artificial Intelligence in Medicine, 33(2 ), 111-124.Echizen-ya, H., Araki, K., & Momouchi, Y.
(2005).Automatic acquisition of bilingual rules for extrac-tion of bilingual word pairs from parallel corpora.In Proceedings of the ACL-SIGLEX Workshop onDeep Lexical Acquisition (pp.
87-96).Fung, P. (2000).
A statistical view of bilingual lexiconextraction: From parallel corpora to non-parallelcorpora.
In Jean Veronis (ed.
), Parallel Text Proc-essing.
Dordrecht: Kluwer Academic Publishers.Gustman, Soergel, Oard, Byrne, Picheny, Ramabhad-ran, & Greenberg.
(2002).
Supporting access tolarge digital oral history archives.
In Proceedingsof the Joint Conference on Digital Libraries.
Port-land, Oregon.
(pp.
18-27).Kaji, H., & Aizono, T. (1996).
Extracting word corre-spondences from bilingual corpora based on wordco-occurrence information.
In Proceedings ofCOLING '96 (pp.
23-28).Murray, G. C., Dorr, B., Lin, J., Haji?, J., & Pecina, P.(2006).
Leveraging recurrent phrase structure inlarge-scale ontology translation.
In Proceedings ofthe 11th Annual Conference of the European Asso-ciation for Machine Translation.
Oslo, Norway.Nelson, S. J., Schopen, M., Savage, A. G., Schulman,J.-L., & Arluk, N. (2004).
The MeSH translationmaintenance system: Structure, interface design,and implementation.
In Proceedings of the 11thWorld Congress on Medical Informatics.
(pp.
67-69).
Amsterdam: IOS Press.Och, F. J., & Ney, H. (2003).
A systematic compari-son of various statistical alignment models.
Com-putational Linguistics, 29(1), 19-51.Papineni, K., Roukos, S., Ward, T., & Zhu, W.-J.(2002).
BLEU: A method for automatic evaluationof machine translation.
In Proceedings of the 40thAnnual Meeting of the Association for Computa-tional Linguistics (pp.
331-318).Rapp, R. (1999).
Automatic identification of wordtranslations from unrelated English and Germancorpora.
In Proceedings of the 37th Annual Meet-ing of the Association for Computational Linguis-tics.
(pp.
519-526).Sadat, F., Yoshikawa, M., & Uemura, S. (2003).
En-hancing cross-language information retrieval by anautomatic acquisition of bilingual terminologyfrom comparable corpora .
In Proceedings of the26th Annual International ACM SIGIR Conferenceon Research and Development in Information Re-trieval (pp.
397-398).Tanaka, K., & Iwasaki, H. (1996).
Extraction of lexi-cal translations from non-aligned corpora.
In Pro-ceedings of COLING '96.
(pp.
580-585).USC.
(2006) USC Shoah Foundation Institute forVisual History and Education, [online]http://www.usc.edu/schools/college/vhiWantanabe, T., & Sumita, E. (2003).
Example-baseddecoding for statistical machine translation.
In Pro-ceedings of MT Summit IX (pp.
410-417).952
