Proceedings of the COLING/ACL 2006 Main Conference Poster Sessions, pages 128?135,Sydney, July 2006. c?2006 Association for Computational LinguisticsAnalysis and Synthesis of the Distribution of Consonants over Languages:A Complex Network ApproachMonojit Choudhury and Animesh Mukherjee and Anupam Basu and Niloy GangulyDepartment of Computer Science and Engineering,Indian Institute of Technology Kharagpur{monojit,animeshm,anupam,niloy}@cse.iitkgp.ernet.inAbstractCross-linguistic similarities are reflectedby the speech sound systems of languagesall over the world.
In this work we tryto model such similarities observed in theconsonant inventories, through a complexbipartite network.
We present a systematicstudy of some of the appealing features ofthese inventories with the help of the bi-partite network.
An important observationis that the occurrence of consonants fol-lows a two regime power law distribution.We find that the consonant inventory sizedistribution together with the principle ofpreferential attachment are the main rea-sons behind the emergence of such a tworegime behavior.
In order to further sup-port our explanation we present a synthe-sis model for this network based on thegeneral theory of preferential attachment.1 IntroductionSound systems of the world?s languages show re-markable regularities.
Any arbitrary set of conso-nants and vowels does not make up the sound sys-tem of a particular language.
Several lines of re-search suggest that cross-linguistic similarities getreflected in the consonant and vowel inventoriesof the languages all over the world (Greenberg,1966; Pinker, 1994; Ladefoged and Maddieson,1996).
Previously it has been argued that thesesimilarities are the results of certain general prin-ciples like maximal perceptual contrast (Lindblomand Maddieson, 1988), feature economy (Mar-tinet, 1968; Boersma, 1998; Clements, 2004) androbustness (Jakobson and Halle, 1956; Chomskyand Halle, 1968).
Maximal perceptual contrastbetween the phonemes of a language is desir-able for proper perception in a noisy environment.In fact the organization of the vowel inventoriesacross languages has been satisfactorily explainedin terms of the single principle of maximal percep-tual contrast (Jakobson, 1941; Wang, 1968).There have been several attempts to reasonthe observed patterns in consonant inventoriessince 1930s (Trubetzkoy, 1969/1939; Lindblomand Maddieson, 1988; Boersma, 1998; Flemming,2002; Clements, 2004), but unlike the case of vow-els, the structure of consonant inventories lacks acomplete and holistic explanation (de Boer, 2000).Most of the works are confined to certain indi-vidual principles (Abry, 2003; Hinskens and Wei-jer, 2003) rather than formulating a general the-ory describing the structural patterns and/or theirstability.
Thus, the structure of the consonant in-ventories continues to be a complex jigsaw puzzle,though the parts and pieces are known.In this work we attempt to represent the cross-linguistic similarities that exist in the consonantinventories of the world?s languages through abipartite network named PlaNet (the PhonemeLanguage Network).
PlaNet has two different setsof nodes, one labeled by the languages while theother labeled by the consonants.
Edges run be-tween these two sets depending on whether or nota particular consonant occurs in a particular lan-guage.
This representation is motivated by similarmodeling of certain complex phenomena observedin nature and society, such as,?
Movie-actor network, where movies and ac-tors constitute the two partitions and an edgebetween them signifies that a particular actoracted in a particular movie (Ramasco et al,2004).128?
Article-author network, where the edges de-note which person has authored which arti-cles (Newman, 2001b).?
Metabolic network of organisms, where thecorresponding partitions are chemical com-pounds and metabolic reactions.
Edges runbetween partitions depending on whether aparticular compound is a substrate or resultof a reaction (Jeong et al, 2000).Modeling of complex systems as networks hasproved to be a comprehensive and emerging wayof capturing the underlying generating mecha-nism of such systems (for a review on complexnetworks and their generation see (Albert andBaraba?si, 2002; Newman, 2003)).
There havebeen some attempts as well to model the intri-cacies of human languages through complex net-works.
Word networks based on synonymy (Yooket al, 2001b), co-occurrence (Cancho et al, 2001),and phonemic edit-distance (Vitevitch, 2005) areexamples of such attempts.
The present work alsouses the concept of complex networks to developa platform for a holistic analysis as well as synthe-sis of the distribution of the consonants across thelanguages.In the current work, with the help of PlaNet weprovide a systematic study of certain interestingfeatures of the consonant inventories.
An impor-tant property that we observe is the two regimepower law degree distribution1 of the nodes la-beled by the consonants.
We try to explain thisproperty in the light of the size of the consonantinventories coupled with the principle of preferen-tial attachment (Baraba?si and Albert, 1999).
Nextwe present a simplified mathematical model ex-plaining the emergence of the two regimes.
In or-der to support our analytical explanations, we alsoprovide a synthesis model for PlaNet.The rest of the paper is organized into five sec-tions.
In section 2 we formally define PlaNet, out-line its construction procedure and present somestudies on its degree distribution.
We dedicate sec-tion 3 to state and explain the inferences that canbe drawn from the degree distribution studies ofPlaNet.
In section 4 we provide a simplified the-oretical explanation of the analytical results ob-1Two regime power law distributions have also beenobserved in syntactic networks of words (Cancho et al,2001), network of mathematics collaborators (Grossman etal., 1995), and language diversity over countries (Gomes etal., 1999).Figure 1: Illustration of the nodes and edges ofPlaNettained.
In section 5 we present a synthesis modelfor PlaNet to hold up the inferences that we drawin section 3.
Finally we conclude in section 6 bysummarizing our contributions, pointing out someof the implications of the current work and indi-cating the possible future directions.2 PlaNet: The Phoneme-LanguageNetworkWe define the network of consonants and lan-guages, PlaNet, as a bipartite graph represented asG = ?VL, VC , E?
where VL is the set of nodes la-beled by the languages and VC is the set of nodeslabeled by the consonants.
E is the set of edgesthat run between VL and VC .
There is an edge e ?E between two nodes vl ?
VL and vc ?
VC if andonly if the consonant c occurs in the language l.Figure 1 illustrates the nodes and edges of PlaNet.2.1 Construction of PlaNetMany typological studies (Lindblom and Mad-dieson, 1988; Ladefoged and Maddieson, 1996;Hinskens and Weijer, 2003) of segmental inven-tories have been carried out in past on the UCLAPhonological Segment Inventory Database (UP-SID) (Maddieson, 1984).
UPSID initially had 317languages and was later extended to include 451languages covering all the major language familiesof the world.
In this work we have used the olderversion of UPSID comprising of 317 languagesand 541 consonants (henceforth UPSID317), forconstructing PlaNet.
Consequently, there are 317elements (nodes) in the set VL and 541 elements129(nodes) in the set VC .
The number of elements(edges) in the set E as computed from PlaNet is7022.
At this point it is important to mention thatin order to avoid any confusion in the construc-tion of PlaNet we have appropriately filtered outthe anomalous and the ambiguous segments (Mad-dieson, 1984) from it.
We have completely ig-nored the anomalous segments from the data set(since the existence of such segments is doubtful),and included the ambiguous ones as separate seg-ments because there are no descriptive sources ex-plaining how such ambiguities might be resolved.A similar approach has also been described in Per-icliev and Valde?s-Pe?rez (2002).2.2 Degree Distribution of PlaNetThe degree of a node u, denoted by ku is defined asthe number of edges connected to u.
The term de-gree distribution is used to denote the way degrees(ku) are distributed over the nodes (u).
The de-gree distribution studies find a lot of importance inunderstanding the complex topology of any largenetwork, which is very difficult to visualize oth-erwise.
Since PlaNet is bipartite in nature it hastwo degree distribution curves one correspondingto the nodes in the set VL and the other corre-sponding to the nodes in the set VC .Degree distribution of the nodes in VL: Fig-ure 2 shows the degree distribution of the nodesin VL where the x-axis denotes the degree of eachnode expressed as a fraction of the maximum de-gree and the y-axis denotes the number of nodeshaving a given degree expressed as a fraction ofthe total number of nodes in VL .It is evident from Figure 2 that the number ofconsonants appearing in different languages fol-low a ?-distribution 2 (see (Bulmer, 1979) for ref-erence).
The figure shows an asymmetric rightskewed distribution with the values of ?
and ?equal to 7.06 and 47.64 (obtained using maximumlikelihood estimation method) respectively.
Theasymmetry points to the fact that languages usu-ally tend to have smaller consonant inventory size,2A random variable is said to have a ?-distribution withparameters ?> 0 and ?
> 0 if and only if its probability massfunction is given byf(x) =?
(?+ ?)?(?)?(?)x?
?1(1 ?
x)?
?1for 0 < x < 1 and f(x) = 0 otherwise.
?(?)
is the Euler?sgamma function.Figure 2: Degree distribution of PlaNet for the setVL.
The figure in the inner box is a magnifiedversion of a portion of the original figure.the best value being somewhere between 10 and30.
The distribution peaks roughly at 21 indicatingthat majority of the languages in UPSID317 have aconsonant inventory size of around 21 consonants.Degree distribution of the nodes in VC: Fig-ure 3 illustrates two different types of degree dis-tribution plots for the nodes in VC ; Figure 3(a)corresponding to the rank, i.e., the sorted order ofdegrees, (x-axis) versus degree (y-axis) and Fig-ure 3(b) corresponding to the degree (k) (x-axis)versus Pk (y-axis) where Pk is the fraction ofnodes having degree greater than or equal to k.Figure 3 clearly shows that both the curves havetwo distinct regimes and the distribution is scale-free.
Regime 1 in Figure 3(a) consists of 21 con-sonants which have a very high frequency (i.e.,the degree k) of occurrence.
Regime 2 of Fig-ure 3(b) also correspond to these 21 consonants.On the other hand Regime 2 of Figure 3(a) as wellas Regime 1 of Figure 3(b) comprises of the restof the consonants.
The point marked as x in boththe figures indicates the breakpoint.
Each of theregime in both Figure 3(a) and (b) exhibit a powerlaw of the formy = Ax?
?In Figure 3(a) y represents the degree k of a nodecorresponding to its rank x whereas in Figure 3(b)y corresponds to Pk and x, the degree k. The val-ues of the parameters A and ?, for Regime 1 andRegime 2 in both the figures, as computed by theleast square error method, are shown in Table 1.130Regime Figure 3(a) Figure 3(b)Regime 1 A = 368.70 ?
= 0.4 A = 1.040 ?
= 0.71Regime 2 A = 12456.5 ?
= 1.54 A = 2326.2 ?
= 2.36Table 1: The values of the parameters A and ?Figure 3: Degree distribution of PlaNet for the setVC in a log-log scaleIt becomes necessary to mention here that suchpower law distributions, known variously as Zipf?slaw (Zipf, 1949), are also observed in an extra-ordinarily diverse range of phenomena includingthe frequency of the use of words in human lan-guage (Zipf, 1949), the number of papers scien-tists write (Lotka, 1926), the number of hits onweb pages (Adamic and Huberman, 2000) and soon.
Thus our inferences, detailed out in the nextsection, mainly centers around this power law be-havior.3 Inferences Drawn from the Analysis ofPlaNetIn most of the networked systems like the society,the Internet, the World Wide Web, and many oth-ers, power law degree distribution emerges for thephenomenon of preferential attachment, i.e., when?the rich get richer?
(Simon, 1955).
With refer-ence to PlaNet this preferential attachment can beinterpreted as the tendency of a language to choosea consonant that has been already chosen by alarge number of other languages.
We posit that it isthis preferential property of languages that resultsin the power law degree distributions observed inFigure 3(a) and (b).Nevertheless there is one question that still re-mains unanswered.
Whereas the power law distri-bution is well understood, the reason for the twodistinct regimes (with a sharp break) still remainsunexplored.
We hypothesize that,Hypothesis The typical distribution of the conso-nant inventory size over languages coupled withthe principle of preferential attachment enforcesthe two distinct regimes to appear in the powerlaw curves.As the average consonant inventory size inUPSID317 is 21, so following the principle ofpreferential attachment, on an average, the first21 most frequent consonants are much more pre-ferred than the rest.
Consequently, the nature ofthe frequency distribution for the highly frequentconsonants is different from the less frequent ones,and hence there is a transition from Regime 1 toRegime 2 in the Figure 3(a) and (b).Support Experiment: In order to establish thatthe consonant inventory size plays an importantrole in giving rise to the two regimes discussedabove we present a support experiment in whichwe try to observe whether the breakpoint x shiftsas we shift the average consonant inventory size.Experiment: In order to shift the average con-sonant inventory size from 21 to 25, 30 and 38we neglected the contribution of the languageswith consonant inventory size less than n wheren is 15, 20 and 25 respectively and subsequentlyrecorded the degree distributions obtained eachtime.
We did not carry out our experiments foraverage consonant inventory size more than 38 be-cause the number of such languages are very rarein UPSID317.Observations: Figure 4 shows the effect of thisshifting of the average consonant inventory size onthe rank versus degree distribution curves.
Table 2presents the results observed from these curveswith the left column indicating the average inven-tory size and the right column the breakpoint x.131Figure 4: Degree distributions at different averageconsonant inventory sizesAvg.
consonant inv.
size Transition25 2530 3038 37Table 2: The transition points for different averageconsonant inventory sizeThe table clearly indicates that the transition oc-curs at values corresponding to the average conso-nant inventory size in each of the three cases.Inferences: It is quite evident from our observa-tions that the breakpoint x has a strong correlationwith the average consonant inventory size, whichtherefore plays a key role in the emergence of thetwo regime degree distribution curves.In the next section we provide a simplistic math-ematical model for explaining the two regimepower law with a breakpoint corresponding to theaverage consonant inventory size.4 Theoretical Explanation for the TwoRegimesLet us assume that the inventory of all the lan-guages comprises of 21 consonants.
We further as-sume that the consonants are arranged in their hier-archy of preference.
A language traverses the hier-archy of consonants and at every step decides witha probability p to choose the current consonant.
Itstops as soon as it has chosen all the 21 conso-nants.
Since languages must traverse through thefirst 21 consonants regardless of whether the pre-vious consonants are chosen or not, the probabilityof choosing any one of these 21 consonants mustbe p. But the case is different for the 22nd conso-nant, which is chosen by a language if it has pre-viously chosen zero, one, two, or at most 20, butnot all of the first 21 consonants.
Therefore, theprobability of the 22nd consonant being chosen is,P (22) = p20?i=0(21i)pi(1?
p)21?iwhere (21i)pi(1?
p)21?idenotes the probability of choosing i consonantsfrom the first 21.
In general the probability ofchoosing the n+1th consonant from the hierarchyis given by,P (n+ 1) = p20?i=0(ni)pi(1?
p)n?iFigure 5 shows the plot of the function P (n) forvarious values of p which are 0.99, 0.95, 0.9, 0.85,0.75 and 0.7 respectively in log-log scale.
All thecurves, for different values of p, have a nature sim-ilar to that of the degree distribution plot we ob-tained for PlaNet.
This is indicative of the fact thatlanguages choose consonants from the hierarchywith a probability function comparable to P (n).Owing to the simplified assumption that allthe languages have only 21 consonants, the firstregime is a straight line; however we believe amore rigorous mathematical model can be builttaking into consideration the ?-distribution ratherthan just the mean value of the inventory size thatcan explain the negative slope of the first regime.We look forward to do the same as a part of our fu-ture work.
Rather, here we try to investigate the ef-fect of the exact distribution of the language inven-tory size on the nature of the degree distribution ofthe consonants through a synthetic approach basedon the principle of preferential attachment, whichis described in the subsequent section.5 The Synthesis Model based onPreferential AttachmentAlbert and Baraba?si (1999) observed that a com-mon property of many large networks is that thevertex connectivities follow a scale-free powerlaw distribution.
They remarked that two genericmechanisms can be considered to be the causeof this observation: (i) networks expand contin-uously by the addition of new vertices, and (ii)new vertices attach preferentially to sites (vertices)that are already well connected.
They found that132Figure 5: Plot of the function P (n) in log-logscalea model based on these two ingredients repro-duces the observed stationary scale-free distrib-utions, which in turn indicates that the develop-ment of large networks is governed by robust self-organizing phenomena that go beyond the particu-lars of the individual systems.Inspired by their work and the empirical as wellas the mathematical analysis presented above, wepropose a preferential attachment model for syn-thesizing PlaNet (PlaNetsyn henceforth) in whichthe degree distribution of the nodes in VL isknown.
Hence VL={L1, L2, .
.
., L317} havedegrees (consonant inventory size) {k1, k2, .
.
.,k317} respectively.
We assume that the nodes inthe set VC are unlabeled.
At each time step, anode Lj (j = 1 to 317) from VL tries to attach itselfwith a new node i ?
VC to which it is not alreadyconnected.
The probability Pr(i) with which thenode Lj gets attached to i depends on the currentdegree of i and is given byPr(i) =ki + ?i??Vj(ki?
+ )where ki is the current degree of the node i, Vjis the set of nodes in VC to which Lj is not al-ready connected and  is the smoothing parameterwhich is used to reduce bias and favor at least afew attachments with nodes in Vj that do not havea high Pr(i).
The above process is repeated un-til all Lj ?
VL get connected to exactly kj nodesin VC .
The entire idea is summarized in Algo-rithm 1.
Figure 6 shows a partial step of the syn-thesis process illustrated in Algorithm 1.Simulation Results: Simulations reveal that forPlaNetsyn the degree distribution of the nodes be-longing to VC fit well with the analytical resultswe obtained earlier in section 2.
Good fits emergerepeatfor j = 1 to 317 doif there is a node Lj ?
VL with at leastone or more consonants to be chosenfrom VC thenCompute Vj = VC-V (Lj), whereV (Lj) is the set of nodes in VC towhich Lj is already connected;endfor each node i ?
Vj doPr(i) =ki + ?i??Vj(ki?
+ )where ki is the current degree ofthe node i and  is the modelparameter.
Pr(i) is theprobability of connecting Lj to i.endConnect Lj to a node i ?
Vjfollowing the distribution Pr(i);enduntil all languages complete their inventoryquota ;Algorithm 1: Algorithm for synthesis ofPlaNet based on preferential attachmentFigure 6: A partial step of the synthesis process.When the language L4 has to connect itself withone of the nodes in the set VC it does so with theone having the highest degree (=3) rather than withothers in order to achieve preferential attachmentwhich is the working principle of our algorithmfor the range 0.06 ?
 ?
0.08 with the best beingat  = 0.0701.
Figure 7 shows the degree k versus133Figure 7: Degree distribution of the nodes inVC for both PlaNetsyn, PlaNet, and when themodel incorporates no preferential attachment; forPlaNetsyn,  = 0.0701 and the results are averagedover 100 simulation runsPk plots for  = 0.0701 averaged over 100 simula-tion runs.The mean error3 between the degree distribu-tion plots of PlaNet and PlaNetsyn is 0.03 whichintuitively signifies that on an average the varia-tion in the two curves is 3%.
On the contrary, ifthere were no preferential attachment incorporatedin the model (i.e., all connections were equiprob-able) then the mean error would have been 0.35(35% variation on an average).6 Conclusions, Discussion and FutureWorkIn this paper, we have analyzed and synthesizedthe consonant inventories of the world?s languagesin terms of a complex network.
We dedicated thepreceding sections essentially to,?
Represent the consonant inventories througha bipartite network called PlaNet,?
Provide a systematic study of certain impor-tant properties of the consonant inventorieswith the help of PlaNet,?
Propose analytical explanations for the tworegime power law curves (obtained fromPlaNet) on the basis of the distribution of theconsonant inventory size over languages to-gether with the principle of preferential at-tachment,3Mean error is defined as the average difference betweenthe ordinate pairs where the abscissas are equal.?
Provide a simplified mathematical model tosupport our analytical explanations, and?
Develop a synthesis model for PlaNet basedon preferential attachment where the conso-nant inventory size distribution is known apriori.We believe that the general explanation pro-vided here for the two regime power law is a fun-damental result, and can have a far reaching im-pact, because two regime behavior is observed inmany other networked systems.Until now we have been mainly dealing with thecomputational aspects of the distribution of conso-nants over the languages rather than exploring thereal world dynamics that gives rise to such a distri-bution.
An issue that draws immediate attention isthat how preferential attachment, which is a gen-eral phenomenon associated with network evolu-tion, can play a prime role in shaping the conso-nant inventories of the world?s languages.
The an-swer perhaps is hidden in the fact that language isan evolving system and its present structure is de-termined by its past evolutionary history.
Indeedan explanation based on this evolutionary model,with an initial disparity in the distribution of con-sonants over languages, can be intuitively verifiedas follows ?
let there be a language communityof N speakers communicating among themselvesby means of only two consonants say /k/ and /g/.If we assume that every speaker has l descendantsand language inventories are transmitted with highfidelity, then after i generations it is expected thatthe community will consist of mli /k/ speakers andnli /g/ speakers.
Now if m > n and l > 1, then forsufficiently large i, mli  nli.
Stated differently,the /k/ speakers by far outnumbers the /g/ speak-ers even if initially the number of /k/ speakers isonly slightly higher than that of the /g/ speakers.This phenomenon is similar to that of preferen-tial attachment where language communities getattached to, i.e., select, consonants that are alreadyhighly preferred.
Nevertheless, it remains to beseen where from such an initial disparity in the dis-tribution of the consonants over languages mighthave originated.In this paper, we mainly dealt with the occur-rence principles of the consonants in the invento-ries of the world?s languages.
The work can be fur-ther extended to identify the co-occurrence likeli-hood of the consonants in the language inventories134and subsequently identify the groups or commu-nities within them.
Information about such com-munities can then help in providing an improvedinsight about the organizing principles of the con-sonant inventories.ReferencesC.
Abry.
2003.
[b]-[d]-[g] as a universal triangle asacoustically optimal as [i]-[a]-[u].
15th Int.
Congr.Phonetics Sciences ICPhS, 727?730.L.
A. Adamic and B.
A. Huberman.
2000.
The na-ture of markets in the World Wide Web.
QuarterlyJournal of Electronic Commerce 1, 512.R.
Albert and A.-L. Baraba?si.
2002.
Statistical me-chanics of complex networks.
Reviews of ModernPhysics 74, 47?97.A.-L. Baraba?si and R. Albert.
1999.
Emergence ofscaling in random networks.
Science 286, 509-512.Bart de Boer.
2000.
Self-Organisation in Vowel Sys-tems.
Journal of Phonetics, Elsevier.P.
Boersma.
1998.
Functional Phonology.
(Doctoralthesis, University of Amsterdam), The Hague: Hol-land Academic Graphics.M.
G. Bulmer.
1979.
Principles of Statistics, Mathe-matics.Ferrer i Cancho and R. V. Sole?.
2001.
Santa Fe work-ing paper 01-03-016.N.
Chomsky and M. Halle.
1968.
The Sound Patternof English, New York: Harper and Row.N.
Clements.
2004.
Features and Sound Inventories.Symposium on Phonological Theory: Representa-tions and Architecture, CUNY.E.
Flemming.
2002.
Auditory Representations inPhonology, New York and London: Routledge.M.
A. F. Gomes, G. L. Vasconcelos, I. J. Tsang, and I.R.
Tsang.
1999.
Scaling relations for diversity oflanguages.
Physica A, 271, 489.J.
H. Greenberg.
1966.
Language Universals with Spe-cial Reference to Feature Hierarchies, The HagueMouton.J.
W. Grossman and P. D. F. Ion.
1995.
On a portionof the well-known collaboration graph.
CongressusNumerantium, 108, 129-131.F.
Hinskens and J. Weijer.
2003.
Patterns of segmen-tal modification in consonant inventories: a cross-linguistic study.
Linguistics.R.
Jakobson.
1941.
Kindersprache, Aphasie und allge-meine Lautgesetze, Uppsala, Reprinted in SelectedWritings I. Mouton, The Hague, 1962, pages 328-401.H.
Jeong, B. Tombor, R. Albert, Z. N. Oltvai, and A.L.
Baraba?si.
2000.
The large-scale organization ofmetabolic networks.
Nature, 406:651-654.R.
Jakobson and M. Halle.
1956.
Fundamentals ofLanguage, The Hague: Mouton and Co.P.
Ladefoged and I. Maddieson.
1996.
Sounds of theWorlds Languages, Oxford: Blackwell.B.
Lindblom and I. Maddieson.
1988.
Phonetic Uni-versals in Consonant Systems.
In L.M.
Hyman andC.N.
Li, eds., Language, Speech, and Mind, Rout-ledge, London, 62?78.A.
J. Lotka.
1926.
The frequency distribution of scien-tific production.
J. Wash. Acad.
Sci.
16, 317-323.I.
Maddieson.
1984.
Patterns of Sounds, CambridgeUniversity Press, Cambridge.A.
Martinet.
1968.
Phonetics and linguistic evolu-tion.
In Bertil Malmberg (ed.
), Manual of phonetics,revised and extended edition, Amsterdam: North-Holland Publishing Co. 464?487.M.
E. J. Newman.
2001b.
Scientific collaboration net-works.
I and II.
Phys.
Rev., E 64.M.
E. J. Newman.
2003.
The structure and function ofcomplex networks.
SIAM Review 45, 167?256.V.
Pericliev, R. E. Valde?s-Pe?rez.
2002.
Differentiating451 languages in terms of their segment inventories.Studia Linguistica, Blackwell Publishing.S.
Pinker.
1994.
The Language Instinct, New York:Morrowo.Jose?
J. Ramasco, S. N. Dorogovtsev, and RomualdoPastor-Satorras.
2004.
Self-organization of collabo-ration networks.
Physical Review E, 70, 036106.H.
A. Simon.
1955.
On a class of skew distributionfunctions.
Biometrika 42, 425-440.N.
Trubetzkoy.
1969.
Principles of phonology.
(English translation of Grundzu?ge der Phonologie,1939), Berkeley: University of California Press.M.
S. Vitevitch.
2005.
Phonological neighbors in asmall world: What can graph theory tell us aboutword learning?
Spring 2005 Talk Series on Networksand Complex Systems, Indiana University, Bloom-ington.William S.-Y.
Wang.
1968.
The basis of speech,Project on Linguistic Analysis Reports, Universityof California at Berkeley.
Reprinted in The Learningof Language, ed.
by C. E. Reed, 1971.S.
Yook, H. Jeong and A.-L. Baraba?si.
2001b.
preprint.G.
K. Zipf.
1949.
Human Behaviour and the Principleof Least Effort, Addison-Wesley, Reading, MA.135
