Proceedings of the 21st International Conference on Computational Linguistics and 44th Annual Meeting of the ACL, pages 81?88,Sydney, July 2006. c?2006 Association for Computational LinguisticsExtracting Parallel Sub-Sentential Fragments from Non-Parallel CorporaDragos Stefan MunteanuUniversity of Southern CaliforniaInformation Sciences Institute4676 Admiralty Way, Suite 1001Marina del Rey, CA, 90292dragos@isi.eduDaniel MarcuUniversity of Southern CaliforniaInformation Sciences Institute4676 Admiralty Way, Suite 1001Marina del Rey, CA, 90292marcu@isi.eduAbstractWe present a novel method for extract-ing parallel sub-sentential fragments fromcomparable, non-parallel bilingual cor-pora.
By analyzing potentially similarsentence pairs using a signal processing-inspired approach, we detect which seg-ments of the source sentence are translatedinto segments in the target sentence, andwhich are not.
This method enables usto extract useful machine translation train-ing data even from very non-parallel cor-pora, which contain no parallel sentencepairs.
We evaluate the quality of the ex-tracted data by showing that it improvesthe performance of a state-of-the-art sta-tistical machine translation system.1 IntroductionRecently, there has been a surge of interest inthe automatic creation of parallel corpora.
Sev-eral researchers (Zhao and Vogel, 2002; Vogel,2003; Resnik and Smith, 2003; Fung and Cheung,2004a; Wu and Fung, 2005; Munteanu and Marcu,2005) have shown how fairly good-quality parallelsentence pairs can be automatically extracted fromcomparable corpora, and used to improve the per-formance of machine translation (MT) systems.This work addresses a major bottleneck in the de-velopment of Statistical MT (SMT) systems: thelack of sufficiently large parallel corpora for mostlanguage pairs.
Since comparable corpora exist inlarge quantities and for many languages ?
tens ofthousands of words of news describing the sameevents are produced daily ?
the ability to exploitthem for parallel data acquisition is highly benefi-cial for the SMT field.Comparable corpora exhibit various degrees ofparallelism.
Fung and Cheung (2004a) describecorpora ranging from noisy parallel, to compara-ble, and finally to very non-parallel.
Corpora fromthe last category contain ?...
disparate, very non-parallel bilingual documents that could either beon the same topic (on-topic) or not?.
This is thekind of corpora that we are interested to exploit inthe context of this paper.Existing methods for exploiting comparablecorpora look for parallel data at the sentence level.However, we believe that very non-parallel cor-pora have none or few good sentence pairs; mostof their parallel data exists at the sub-sententiallevel.
As an example, consider Figure 1, whichpresents two news articles from the English andRomanian editions of the BBC.
The articles re-port on the same event (the one-year anniversaryof Ukraine?s Orange Revolution), have been pub-lished within 25 minutes of each other, and expressoverlapping content.Although they are ?on-topic?, these two docu-ments are non-parallel.
In particular, they containno parallel sentence pairs; methods designed to ex-tract full parallel sentences will not find any use-ful data in them.
Still, as the lines and boxes fromthe figure show, some parallel fragments of datado exist; but they are present at the sub-sententiallevel.In this paper, we present a method for extractingsuch parallel fragments from comparable corpora.Figure 2 illustrates our goals.
It shows two sen-tences belonging to the articles in Figure 1, andhighlights and connects their parallel fragments.Although the sentences share some commonmeaning, each of them has content which is nottranslated on the other side.
The English phrasereports the BBC?s Helen Fawkes in Kiev, as well81Figure 1: A pair of comparable, non-parallel documentsFigure 2: A pair of comparable sentences.as the Romanian one De altfel, vorbind inainteaaniversarii have no translation correspondent, ei-ther in the other sentence or anywhere in the wholedocument.
Since the sentence pair contains somuch untranslated text, it is unlikely that any par-allel sentence detection method would consider ituseful.
And, even if the sentences would be usedfor MT training, considering the amount of noisethey contain, they might do more harm than goodfor the system?s performance.
The best way tomake use of this sentence pair is to extract and usefor training just the translated (highlighted) frag-ments.
This is the aim of our work.Identifying parallel subsentential fragments isa difficult task.
It requires the ability to recog-nize translational equivalence in very noisy en-vironments, namely sentence pairs that expressdifferent (although overlapping) content.
How-ever, a good solution to this problem would have astrong impact on parallel data acquisition efforts.Enabling the exploitation of corpora that do notshare parallel sentences would greatly increase theamount of comparable data that can be used forSMT.2 Finding Parallel Sub-SententialFragments in Comparable Corpora2.1 IntroductionThe high-level architecture of our parallel frag-ment extraction system is presented in Figure 3.The first step of the pipeline identifies docu-ment pairs that are similar (and therefore morelikely to contain parallel data), using the Lemurinformation retrieval toolkit1 (Ogilvie and Callan,2001); each document in the source language istranslated word-for-word and turned into a query,which is run against the collection of target lan-guage documents.
The top 20 results are retrievedand paired with the query document.
We then takeall sentence pairs from these document pairs andrun them through the second step in the pipeline,the candidate selection filter.
This step discardspairs which have very few words that are trans-lations of each other.
To all remaining sentencepairs we apply the fragment detection method (de-scribed in Section 2.3), which produces the outputof the system.We use two probabilistic lexicons, learned au-1http://www-2.cs.cmu.edu/$\sim$lemur82Figure 3: A Parallel Fragment Extraction Systemtomatically from the same initial parallel corpus.The first one, GIZA-Lex, is obtained by runningthe GIZA++2 implementation of the IBM wordalignment models (Brown et al, 1993) on the ini-tial parallel corpus.
One of the characteristics ofthis lexicon is that each source word is associatedwith many possible translations.
Although most ofits high-probability entries are good translations,there are a lot of entries (of non-negligible proba-bility) where the two words are at most related.
Asan example, in our GIZA-Lex lexicon, each sourceword has an average of 12 possible translations.This characteristic is useful for the first two stagesof the extraction pipeline, which are not intendedto be very precise.
Their purpose is to accept mostof the existing parallel data, and not too much ofthe non-parallel data; using such a lexicon helpsachieve this purpose.For the last stage, however, precision isparamount.
We found empirically that when us-ing GIZA-Lex, the incorrect correspondences thatit contains seriously impact the quality of our re-sults; we therefore need a cleaner lexicon.
In addi-tion, since we want to distinguish between sourcewords that have a translation on the target side andwords that do not, we also need a measure of theprobability that two words are not translations ofeach other.
All these are part of our second lexi-con, LLR-Lex, which we present in detail in Sec-tion 2.2.
Subsequently, in Section 2.3, we presentour algorithm for detecting parallel sub-sententialfragments.2.2 Using Log-Likelihood-Ratios to EstimateWord Translation ProbabilitiesOur method for computing the probabilistic trans-lation lexicon LLR-Lex is based on the the Log-2http://www.fjoch.com/GIZA++.htmlLikelihood-Ratio (LLR) statistic (Dunning, 1993),which has also been used by Moore (2004a;2004b) and Melamed (2000) as a measure ofword association.
Generally speaking, this statis-tic gives a measure of the likelihood that two sam-ples are not independent (i.e.
generated by thesame probability distribution).
We use it to es-timate the independence of pairs of words whichcooccur in our parallel corpus.If source word and target word  are indepen-dent (i.e.
they are not translations of each other),we would expect that  	 	,i.e.
the distribution of  given that is presentis the same as the distribution of  when is notpresent.
The LLR statistic gives a measure of thelikelihood of this hypothesis.
The LLR score of aword pair is low when these two distributions arevery similar (i.e.
the words are independent), andhigh otherwise (i.e.
the words are strongly associ-ated).
However, high LLR scores can indicate ei-ther a positive association (i.e.
  	  	 )or a negative one; and we can distinguish betweenthem by checking whether  	 	.Thus, we can split the set of cooccurring wordpairs into positively and negatively associatedpairs, and obtain a measure for each of the two as-sociation types.
The first type of association willprovide us with our (cleaner) lexicon, while thesecond will allow us to estimate probabilities ofwords not being translations of each other.Before describing our new method more for-mally, we address the notion of word cooc-currence.
In the work of Moore (2004a) andMelamed (2000), two words cooccur if they arepresent in a pair of aligned sentences in the paralleltraining corpus.
However, most of the words fromaligned sentences are actually unrelated; therefore,this is a rather weak notion of cooccurrence.
Wefollow Resnik et.
al (2001) and adopt a strongerdefinition, based not on sentence alignment buton word alignment: two words cooccur if theyare linked together in the word-aligned paralleltraining corpus.
We thus make use of the signifi-cant amount of knowledge brought in by the wordalignment procedure.We compute  	, the LLR score forwords  and , using the formula presented byMoore (2004b), which we do not repeat here dueto lack of space.
We then use these values tocompute two conditional probability distributions:fffi 	, the probability that source word trans-83Figure 4: Translated fragments, according to the lexicon.lates into target word  , and ff   	, the proba-bility that does not translate into  .
We obtainthe distributions by normalizing the LLR scoresfor each source word.The whole procedure follows: Word-align the parallel corpus.
FollowingOch and Ney (2003), we run GIZA++ in bothdirections, and then symmetrize the align-ments using the refined heuristic. Compute all LLR scores.
There will be anLLR score for each pair of words which arelinked at least once in the word-aligned cor-pus Classify all  	as either  fi   	(positive association) if   	      	 ,or   	 (negative association) other-wise. For each , compute the normalizing factorsfi 	and   	. Divide all  fi  	terms by the cor-responding normalizing factors to obtainfffi 	. Divide all     	terms by the cor-responding normalizing factors to obtainff  	.In order to compute the ff   distributions,we reverse the source and target languages and re-peat the procedure.As we mentioned above, in GIZA-Lex the aver-age number of possible translations for a sourceword is 12.
In LLR-Lex that average is 5, which isa significant decrease.2.3 Detecting Parallel Sub-SententialFragmentsIntuitively speaking, our method tries to distin-guish between source fragments that have a trans-lation on the target side, and fragments that do not.In Figure 4 we show the sentence pair from Fig-ure 2, in which we have underlined those words ofeach sentence that have a translation in the othersentence, according to our lexicon LLR-Lex.
Thephrases ?to focus on the past year?s achievements,which,?
and ?sa se concentreze pe succesele an-ului trecut, care,?
are mostly underlined (the lexi-con is unaware of the fact that ?achievements?
and?succesele?
are in fact translations of each other,because ?succesele?
is a morphologically inflectedform which does not cooccur with ?achievements?in our initial parallel corpus).
The rest of thesentences are mostly not underlined, although wedo have occasional connections, some correct andsome wrong.
The best we can do in this case is toinfer that these two phrases are parallel, and dis-card the rest.
Doing this gains us some new knowl-edge: the lexicon entry (achievements, succesele).We need to quantify more precisely the notionsof ?mostly translated?
and ?mostly not translated?.Our approach is to consider the target sentence asa numeric signal, where translated words corre-spond to positive values (coming from the ff fi dis-tribution described in the previous Section), andthe others to negative ones (coming from the ff distribution).
We want to retain the parts of thesentence where the signal is mostly positive.
Thiscan be achieved by applying a smoothing filter tothe signal, and selecting those fragments of thesentence for which the corresponding filtered val-ues are positive.The details of the procedure are presented be-low, and also illustrated in Figure 5.
Let the Ro-manian sentence be the source sentence 	 , and theEnglish one be the target,.
We compute a wordalignmentby greedily linking each En-glish word with its best translation candidate fromthe Romanian sentence.
For each of the linked tar-get words, the corresponding signal value is theprobability of the link (there can be at most onelink for each target word).
Thus, if target word is linked to source word , the signal value cor-responding to  is ff fi  	 (the distribution de-scribed in Section 2.2), i.e.
the probability that is the translation of .For the remaining target words, the signal valueshould reflect the probability that they are not84Figure 5: Our approach for detecting parallel fragments.
The lower part of the figure shows the sourceand target sentence together with their alignment.
Above are displayed the initial signal and the filteredsignal.
The circles indicate which fragments of the target sentence are selected by the procedure.translated; for this, we employ the ff   distribu-tion.
Thus, for each non-linked target word  , welook for the source word least likely to be its non-translation:  ff  	.
If  ex-ists, we set the signal value for  to ff    ;otherwise, we set it to  .
This is the initial sig-nal.
We obtain the filtered signal by applying anaveraging filter, which sets the value at each pointto be the average of several values surrounding it.In our experiments, we use the surrounding 5 val-ues, which produced good results on a develop-ment set.
We then simply retain the ?positive frag-ments?
of, i.e.
those fragments for which thecorresponding filtered signal values are positive.However, this approach will often produce short?positive fragments?
which are not, in fact, trans-lated in the source sentence.
An example of thisis the fragment ?, reports?
from Figure 5, whichalthough corresponds to positive values of the fil-tered signal, has no translation in Romanian.
Inan attempt to avoid such errors, we disregard frag-ments with less than 3 words.We repeat the procedure in the other direction() to obtain the fragments for   , andconsider the resulting two text chunks as parallel.For the sentence pair from Figure 5, our systemwill output the pair:people to focus on the past year?s achievements, which, he sayssa se concentreze pe succesele anului trecut, care, printre3 ExperimentsIn our experiments, we compare our fragmentextraction method (which we call FragmentEx-tract) with the sentence extraction approach ofMunteanu and Marcu (2005) (SentenceExtract).All extracted datasets are evaluated by using themas additional MT training data and measuring theirimpact on the performance of the MT system.3.1 CorporaWe perform experiments in the context of Roma-nian to English machine translation.
We use twoinitial parallel corpora.
One is the training datafor the Romanian-English word alignment taskfrom the Workshop on Building and Using Par-allel Corpora3 which has approximately 1M En-glish words.
The other contains additional data3http://www.statmt.org/wpt05/85Romanian EnglishSource # articles # tokens # articles # tokensBBC 6k 2.5M 200k 118MEZZ 183k 91M 14k 8.5MTable 1: Sizes of our comparable corporafrom the Romanian translations of the EuropeanUnion?s acquis communautaire which we minedfrom the Web, and has about 10M English words.We downloaded comparable data from three on-line news sites: the BBC, and the Romanian news-papers ?Evenimentul Zilei?
and ?Ziua?.
The BBCcorpus is precisely the kind of corpus that ourmethod is designed to exploit.
It is truly non-parallel; as our example from Figure 1 shows, evenclosely related documents have few or no parallelsentence pairs.
Therefore, we expect that our ex-traction method should perform best on this cor-pus.The other two sources are fairly similar, both ingenre and in degree of parallelism, so we groupthem together and refer to them as the EZZ cor-pus.
This corpus exhibits a higher degree of par-allelism than the BBC one; in particular, it con-tains many article pairs which are literal transla-tions of each other.
Therefore, although our sub-sentence extraction method should produce usefuldata from this corpus, we expect the sentence ex-traction method to be more successful.
Using thissecond corpus should help highlight the strengthsand weaknesses of our approach.Table 1 summarizes the relevant informationconcerning these corpora.3.2 Extraction ExperimentsOn each of our comparable corpora, and usingeach of our initial parallel corpora, we applyboth the fragment extraction and the sentence ex-traction method of Munteanu and Marcu (2005).In order to evaluate the importance of the LLR-Lex lexicon, we also performed fragment extrac-tion experiments that do not use this lexicon, butonly GIZA-Lex.
Thus, for each initial parallelcorpus and each comparable corpus, we extractthree datasets: FragmentExtract, SentenceExtract,and Fragment-noLLR.
The sizes of the extracteddatasets, measured in million English tokens, arepresented in Table 2.Initial Source FragmentExtract SentenceExtract Fragment-noLLRcorpus1M BBC 0.4M 0.3M 0.8M1M EZZ 6M 4M 8.1M10M BBC 1.3M 0.9M 2M10M EZZ 10M 7.9M 14.3MTable 2: Sizes of the extracted datasets.3.3 SMT Performance ResultsWe evaluate our extracted corpora by measuringtheir impact on the performance of an SMT sys-tem.
We use the initial parallel corpora to trainBaseline systems; and then train comparative sys-tems using the initial corpora plus: the Frag-mentExtract corpora; the SentenceExtract cor-pora; and the FragmentExtract-noLLR corpora.
Inorder to verify whether the fragment and sentencedetection method complement each other, we alsotrain a Fragment+Sentence system, on the ini-tial corpus plus FragmentExtract and SentenceEx-tract.All MT systems are trained using a variantof the alignment template model of Och andNey (2004).
All systems use the same 2 languagemodels: one trained on 800 million English to-kens, and one trained on the English side of allour parallel and comparable corpora.
This ensuresthat differences in performance are caused only bydifferences in the parallel training data.Our test data consists of news articles from theTime Bank corpus, which were translated intoRomanian, and has 1000 sentences.
Transla-tion performance is measured using the automaticBLEU (Papineni et al, 2002) metric, on one ref-erence translation.
We report BLEU% numbers,i.e.
we multiply the original scores by 100.
The95% confidence intervals of our scores, computedby bootstrap resampling (Koehn, 2004), indicatethat a score increase of more than 1 BLEU% isstatistically significant.The scores are presented in Figure 6.
On theBBC corpus, the fragment extraction method pro-duces statistically significant improvements overthe baseline, while the sentence extraction methoddoes not.
Training on both datasets together bringsfurther improvements.
This indicates that this cor-pus has few parallel sentences, and that by go-ing to the sub-sentence level we make better useof it.
On the EZZ corpus, although our methodbrings improvements in the BLEU score, the sen-86Figure 6: SMT performance resultstence extraction method does better.
Joining bothextracted datasets does not improve performance;since most of the parallel data in this corpus existsat sentence level, the extracted fragments cannotbring much additional knowledge.The Fragment-noLLR datasets bring no transla-tion performance improvements; moreover, whenthe initial corpus is small (1M words) and the com-parable corpus is noisy (BBC), the data has a nega-tive impact on the BLEU score.
This indicates thatLLR-Lex is a higher-quality lexicon than GIZA-Lex, and an important component of our method.4 Previous WorkMuch of the work involving comparable corporahas focused on extracting word translations (Fungand Yee, 1998; Rapp, 1999; Diab and Finch, 2000;Koehn and Knight, 2000; Gaussier et al, 2004;Shao and Ng, 2004; Shinyama and Sekine, 2004).Another related research effort is that of Resnikand Smith (2003), whose system is designed todiscover parallel document pairs on the Web.Our work lies between these two directions; weattempt to discover parallelism at the level of frag-ments, which are longer than one word but shorterthan a document.
Thus, the previous research mostrelevant to this paper is that aimed at mining com-parable corpora for parallel sentences.The earliest efforts in this direction are thoseof Zhao and Vogel (2002) and Utiyama and Isa-hara (2003).
Both methods extend algorithms de-signed to perform sentence alignment of paralleltexts: they use dynamic programming to do sen-tence alignment of documents hypothesized to besimilar.
These approaches are only applicable tocorpora which are at most ?noisy-parallel?, i.e.contain documents which are fairly similar, bothin content and in sentence ordering.Munteanu and Marcu (2005) analyze sentencepairs in isolation from their context, and clas-sify them as parallel or non-parallel.
They matcheach source document with several target ones,and classify all possible sentence pairs from eachdocument pair.
This enables them to find sen-tences from fairly dissimilar documents, and tohandle any amount of reordering, which makes themethod applicable to truly comparable corpora.The research reported by Fung and Che-ung (2004a; 2004b), Cheung and Fung (2004) andWu and Fung (2005) is aimed explicitly at ?verynon-parallel corpora?.
They also pair each sourcedocument with several target ones and examine allpossible sentence pairs; but the list of documentpairs is not fixed.
After one round of sentence ex-traction, the list is enriched with additional docu-ments, and the system iterates.
Thus, they includein the search document pairs which are dissimilar.One limitation of all these methods is that theyare designed to find only full sentences.
Ourmethodology is the first effort aimed at detectingsub-sentential correspondences.
This is a difficulttask, requiring the ability to recognize translation-ally equivalent fragments even in non-parallel sen-tence pairs.The work of Deng et.
al (2006) also deals withsub-sentential fragments.
However, they obtainparallel fragments from parallel sentence pairs (bychunking them and aligning the chunks appropri-ately), while we obtain them from comparable ornon-parallel sentence pairs.Since our approach can extract parallel datafrom texts which contain few or no parallel sen-tences, it greatly expands the range of corporawhich can be usefully exploited.5 ConclusionWe have presented a simple and effective methodfor extracting sub-sentential fragments from com-parable corpora.
We also presented a method forcomputing a probabilistic lexicon based on theLLR statistic, which produces a higher quality lex-icon.
We showed that using this lexicon helps im-prove the precision of our extraction method.Our approach can be improved in severalaspects.
The signal filtering function is verysimple; more advanced filters might work better,and eliminate the need of applying additional87heuristics (such as our requirement that theextracted fragments have at least 3 words).
Thefact that the source and target signal are filteredseparately is also a weakness; a joint analysisshould produce better results.
Despite the betterlexicon, the greatest source of errors is still relatedto false word correspondences, generally involv-ing punctuation and very common, closed-classwords.
Giving special attention to such casesshould help get rid of these errors, and improvethe precision of the method.AcknowledgementsThis work was partially supported under theGALE program of the Defense AdvancedResearch Projects Agency, Contract No.
HR0011-06-C-0022.ReferencesPeter F. Brown, Stephen A. Della Pietra, VincentJ.
Della Pietra, and Robert L. Mercer.
1993.
Themathematics of machine translation: Parameter esti-mation.
Computational Linguistics, 19(2):263?311.Percy Cheung and Pascale Fung.
2004.
Sen-tence alignment in parallel, comparable, and quasi-comparable corpora.
In LREC2004 Workshop.Yonggang Deng, Shankar Kumar, and William Byrne.2006.
Segmentation and alignment of parallel textfor statistical machine translation.
Journal of Natu-ral Language Engineering.
to appear.Mona Diab and Steve Finch.
2000.
A statistical word-level translation model for comparable corpora.
InRIAO 2000.Ted Dunning.
1993.
Accurate methods for the statis-tics of surprise and coincidence.
ComputationalLinguistics, 19(1):61?74.Pascale Fung and Percy Cheung.
2004a.
Mining verynon-parallel corpora: Parallel sentence and lexiconextraction vie bootstrapping and EM.
In EMNLP2004, pages 57?63.Pascale Fung and Percy Cheung.
2004b.
Multi-level bootstrapping for extracting parallel sentencesfrom a quasi-comparable corpus.
In COLING 2004,pages 1051?1057.Pascale Fung and Lo Yuen Yee.
1998.
An IR approachfor translating new words from nonparallel, compa-rable texts.
In ACL 1998, pages 414?420.Eric Gaussier, Jean-Michel Renders, Irina Matveeva,Cyril Goutte, and Herve Dejean.
2004.
A geometricview on bilingual lexicon extraction from compara-ble corpora.
In ACL 2004, pages 527?534.Philipp Koehn and Kevin Knight.
2000.
Estimatingword translation probabilities from unrelated mono-lingual corpora using the EM algorithm.
In Na-tional Conference on Artificial Intelligence, pages711?715.Philipp Koehn.
2004.
Statistical significance tests formachine translation evaluation.
In EMNLP 2004,pages 388?395.I.
Dan Melamed.
2000.
Models of translational equiv-alence among words.
Computational Linguistics,26(2):221?249.Robert C. Moore.
2004a.
Improving IBM word-alignment model 1.
In ACL 2004, pages 519?526.Robert C. Moore.
2004b.
On log-likelihood-ratios andthe significance of rare events.
In EMNLP 2004,pages 333?340.Dragos Stefan Munteanu and Daniel Marcu.
2005.
Im-proving machine translation performance by exploit-ing non-parallel corpora.
Computational Linguis-tics, 31(4).Franz Joseph Och and Hermann Ney.
2003.
A sys-tematic comparison of various statistical alignmentmodels.
Computational Linguistics, 29(1):19?51.Franz Joseph Och and Hermann Ney.
2004.
The align-ment template approach to statistical machine trans-lation.
Computational Linguistics, 30(4):417?450.P.
Ogilvie and J. Callan.
2001.
Experiments using theLemur toolkit.
In TREC 2001, pages 103?108.Kishore Papineni, Salim Roukos, Todd Ward, and Wei-Jing Zhu.
2002.
BLEU: a method for automaticevaluation of machine translation.
In ACL 2002,pages 311?318.Reinhard Rapp.
1999.
Automatic identification ofword translations from unrelated English and Ger-man corpora.
In ACL 1999, pages 519?526.Philip Resnik and Noah A. Smith.
2003.
The webas a parallel corpus.
Computational Linguistics,29(3):349?380.Philip Resnik, Douglas Oard, and Gina Lewow.
2001.Improved cross-language retrieval using backofftranslation.
In HLT 2001.Li Shao and Hwee Tou Ng.
2004.
Mining new wordtranslations from comparable corpora.
In COLING2004, pages 618?624.Yusuke Shinyama and Satoshi Sekine.
2004.
Namedentity discovery using comparable news articles.
InCOLING 2004, pages 848?853.Masao Utiyama and Hitoshi Isahara.
2003.
Reliablemeasures for aligning Japanese-English news arti-cles and sentences.
In ACL 2003, pages 72?79.Stephan Vogel.
2003.
Using noisy bilingual data forstatistical machine translation.
In EACL 2003, pages175?178.Dekai Wu and Pascale Fung.
2005.
Inversion trans-duction grammar constraints for mining parallel sen-tences from quasi-comparable corpora.
In IJCNLP2005, pages 257?268.Bing Zhao and Stephan Vogel.
2002.
Adaptive paral-lel sentences mining from web bilingual news col-lection.
In 2002 IEEE Int.
Conf.
on Data Mining,pages 745?748.88
