Proceedings of the 21st International Conference on Computational Linguistics and 44th Annual Meeting of the ACL, pages 657?664,Sydney, July 2006. c?2006 Association for Computational LinguisticsExtracting loanwords from Mongolian corpora and producing aJapanese-Mongolian bilingual dictionaryBadam-Osor KhaltarGraduate School of Library,Information and Media StudiesUniversity of Tsukuba1-2 Kasuga Tsukuba, 305-8550Japankhab23@slis.tsukuba.ac.jpAtsushi FujiiGraduate School of Library,Information and Media StudiesUniversity of Tsukuba1-2 Kasuga Tsukuba, 305-8550Japanfujii@slis.tsukuba.ac.jpTetsuya IshikawaThe Historiographical InstituteThe University of Tokyo3-1 Hongo 7-chome, Bunkyo-kuTokyo, 133-0033Japanishikawa@hi.u-tokyo.ac.jpAbstractThis paper proposes methods for extractingloanwords from Cyrillic Mongolian corporaand producing a Japanese?Mongolianbilingual dictionary.
We extract loanwordsfrom Mongolian corpora using our ownhandcrafted rules.
To complement therule-based extraction, we also extract wordsin Mongolian corpora that are phoneticallysimilar to Japanese Katakana words asloanwords.
In addition, we correspond theextracted loanwords to Japanese words andproduce a bilingual dictionary.
We propose astemming method for Mongolian to extractloanwords correctly.
We verify theeffectiveness of our methods experimentally.1 IntroductionReflecting the rapid growth in science andtechnology, new words and technical terms are beingprogressively created, and these words and terms areoften transliterated when imported as loanwords inanother language.Loanwords are often not included in dictionaries,and decrease the quality of natural languageprocessing, information retrieval, machinetranslation, and speech recognition.
At the same time,compiling dictionaries is expensive, because it relieson human introspection and supervision.
Thus, anumber of automatic methods have been proposed toextract loanwords and their translations from corpora,targeting various languages.In this paper, we focus on extracting loanwords inMongolian.
The Mongolian language is divided intoTraditional Mongolian, written using the Mongolianalphabet, and Modern Mongolian, written using theCyrillic alphabet.
We focused solely on ModernMongolian, and use the word ?Mongolian?
to referto Modern Mongolian in this paper.There are two major problems in extractingloanwords from Mongolian corpora.The first problem is that Mongolian uses theCyrillic alphabet to represent both conventionalwords and loanwords, and so the automaticextraction of loanwords is difficult.
This featureprovides a salient contrast to Japanese, where theKatakana alphabet is mainly used for loanwords andproper nouns, but not used for conventional words.The second problem is that content words, such asnouns and verbs, are inflected in sentences inMongolian.
Each sentence in Mongolian issegmented on a phrase-by-phase basis.
A phraseconsists of a content word and one or more suffixes,such as postpositional particles.
Because loanwordsare content words, then to extract loanwordscorrectly, we have to identify the original form usingstemming.In this paper, we propose methods for extractingloanwords from Cyrillic Mongolian and producing aJapanese?Mongolian bilingual dictionary.
We alsopropose a stemming method to identify the originalforms of content words in Mongolian phrases.6572 Related workTo the best of our knowledge, no attempt has beenmade to extract loanwords and their translationstargeting Mongolian.
Thus, we will discuss existingmethods targeting other languages.In Korean, both loanwords and conventionalwords are spelled out using the Korean alphabet,called Hangul.
Thus, the automatic extraction ofloanwords in Korean is difficult, as it is inMongolian.
Existing methods that are used to extractloanwords from Korean corpora (Myaeng and Jeong,1999; Oh and Choi, 2001) use the phoneticdifferences between conventional Korean words andloanwords.
However, these methods requiremanually tagged training corpora, and are expensive.A number of corpus-based methods are used toextract bilingual lexicons (Fung and McKeown,1996; Smadja, 1996).
These methods use statisticsobtained from a parallel or comparable bilingualcorpus, and extract word or phrase pairs that arestrongly associated with each other.
However, thesemethods cannot be applied to a language pair wherea large parallel or comparable corpus is not available,such as Mongolian and Japanese.Fujii et al (2004) proposed a method that does notrequire tagged corpora or parallel corpora to extractloanwords and their translations.
They used amonolingual corpus in Korean and a dictionaryconsisting of Japanese Katakana words.
Theyassumed that loanwords in multiple countriescorresponding to the same source word arephonetically similar.
For example, the English word?system?
has been imported into Korean, Mongolian,and Japanese.
In these languages, the romanizedwords are ?siseutem?, ?sistem?, and ?shisutemu?,respectively.It is often the case that new terms have beenimported into multiple languages simultaneously,because the source words are usually influentialacross cultures.
It is feasible that a large number ofloanwords in Korean can also be loanwords inJapanese.
Additionally, Katakana words can beextracted from Japanese corpora with a highaccuracy.
Thus, Fujii et al (2004) extracted theloanwords in Korean corpora that were phoneticallysimilar to Japanese Katakana words.
Because eachof the extracted loanwords also corresponded to aJapanese word during the extraction process, aJapanese?Korean bilingual dictionary was producedin a single framework.However, a number of open questions remainfrom Fujii et al?s research.
First, their stemmingmethod can only be used for Korean.
Second, theiraccuracy in extracting loanwords was low, and thus,an additional extraction method was required.
Third,they did not report on the accuracy of extractingtranslations, and finally, because they used DynamicProgramming (DP) matching for computing thephonetic similarities between Korean and Japanesewords, the computational cost was prohibitive.In an attempt to extract Chinese?Englishtranslations from corpora, Lam et al (2004)proposed a similar method to Fujii et al (2004).However, they searched the Web forChinese?English bilingual comparable corpora, andmatched named entities in each language corpus ifthey were similar to each other.
Thus, Lam et al?smethod cannot be used for a language pair wherecomparable corpora do not exist.
In contrast, usingFujii et al?s (2004) method, the Katakana dictionaryand a Korean corpus can be independent.In addition, Lam et al?s method requiresChinese?English named entity pairs to train thesimilarity computation.
Because the accuracy ofextracting named entities was not reported, it is notclear to what extent this method is effective inextracting loanwords from corpora.3 Methodology3.1 OverviewIn view of the discussion outlined in Section 2, weenhanced the method proposed by Fujii et al (2004)for our purpose.
Figure 1 shows the method that weused to extract loanwords from a Mongolian corpusand to produce a Japanese?Mongolian bilingualdictionary.
Although the basis of our method issimilar to that used by Fujii et al (2004),?Stemming?, ?Extracting loanwords based on rules?,and ?N-gram retrieval?
are introduced in this paper.First, we perform stemming on a Mongoliancorpus to segment phrases into a content word andone or more suffixes.658Second, we discard segmented content words ifthey are in an existing dictionary, and extract theremaining words as candidate loanwords.Third, we use our own handcrafted rules to extractloanwords from the candidate loanwords.
While therule-based method can extract loanwords with a highaccuracy, a number of loanwords cannot be extractedusing predefined rules.Fourth, as performed by Fujii et al (2004), we usea Japanese Katakana dictionary and extract acandidate loanword that is phonetically similar to aKatakana word as a loanword.
We romanize thecandidate loanwords that were not extracted usingthe rules.
We also romanize all words in theKatakana dictionary.However, unlike Fujii et al (2004), we useN-gram retrieval to limit the number of Katakanawords that are similar to the candidate loanwords.Then, we compute the phonetic similarities betweeneach candidate loanword and each retrievedKatakana word using DP matching, and select a pairwhose score is above a predefined threshold.
As aresult, we can extract loanwords in Mongolian andtheir translations in Japanese simultaneously.Finally, to identify Japanese translations for theloanwords extracted using the rules defined in thethird step above, we perform N-gram retrieval andDP matching.We will elaborate further on each step in Sections3.2?3.7.3.2 StemmingA phrase in Mongolian consists of a content wordand one or more suffixes.
A content word canpotentially be inflected in a phrase.
Figure 2 showsMongolian corpus Katakana dictionaryStemmingExtracting candidate loanwords RomanizationJapanese-Mongolian bilingual dictionaryExtracting loanwords based on rulesRomanization N-gram retrievalMongolian loanword dictionaryHigh SimilarityComputing phonetic similarityFig  ure 1: Overview of our extraction method.Type Example(a) No inflection.
???
+ ??
?
????
?Book + Genitive Case(b) Vowel elimination.
????
+??
?+ ???
???????
?Work + Ablative Case +Reflexive(c) Vowel insertion.
??
+ ?
?
???
?Brother + Dative Case(d) Consonant insertion.
??????
+ ????
?????????
?Building + Genitive Case(e) The letter ???
isconverted to ??
?, andthe vowel is eliminated.???????
?+ ????
?????????
?School + Ablative CaseFigure 2: Inflection types of nouns in Mongolian.the inflection types of content words in phrases.
Inphrase (a), there is no inflection in the content word????
(book)?
concatenated with the suffix ???
(genitive case)?.However, in phrases (b)?
(e) in Figure 2, thecontent words are inflected.
Loanwords are alsoinflected in all of these types, except for phrase (b).Thus, we have to identify the original form of acontent word using stemming.
While mostloanwords are nouns, a number of loanwords canalso be verbs.
In this paper, we propose a stemmingmethod for nouns.
Figure 3 shows our stemmingmethod.
We will explain our stemming methodfurther, based on Figure 3.First, we consult a ?Suffix dictionary?
andperform backward partial matching to determinewhether or not one or more suffixes are concatenatedat the end of a target phrase.Second, if a suffix is detected, we use a ?Suffixsegmentation rule?
to segment the suffix and extract659Figure 3: Overview of our noun stemming method.the noun.
The inflection type in phrases (c)?
(e) inFigure 2 is also determined.Third, we investigate whether or not the vowelelimination in phrase (b) in Figure 2 occurred in theextracted noun.
Because the vowel eliminationoccurs only in the last vowel of a noun, we check thelast two characters of the extracted noun.
If both ofthe characters are consonants, the eliminated vowelis inserted using a ?Vowel insertion rule?
and thenoun is converted into its original form.Existing Mongolian stemming methods (Ehara etal., 2004; Sanduijav et al, 2005) use noundictionaries.
Because we intend to extract loanwordsthat are not in existing dictionaries, the abovemethods cannot be used.
Noun dictionaries have tobe updated as new words are created.Our stemming method does not require a noundictionary.
Instead, we manually produced a suffixdictionary, suffix segmentation rule, and vowelinsertion rule.
However, once these resources areproduced, almost no further compilation is required.The suffix dictionary consists of 37 suffixes thatcan concatenate with nouns.
These suffixes arepostpositional particles.
Table 1 shows the dictionaryentries, in which the inflection forms of thepostpositional particles are shown in parentheses.The suffix segmentation rule consists of 173 rules.We show examples of these rules in Figure 4.
Evenif suffixes are identical in their phrases, thesegmentation rules can be different, depending onthe counterpart noun.In Figure 4, the suffix ?????
matches both thenoun phrases (a) and (b) by backward partialmatching.
However, each phrase is segmented by aTable 1: Entries of the suffix dictionary.detect a suffix inthe phraseSuffix dictionary Suffix segmentation rulephrasenounsegment a suffixand extract a nounYesinsert a vowelcheck if the last two characters of thenoun are both consonantsVowel insertion ruleNoCase SuffixGenitiveAccusativeDativeAblativeInstrumentalCooperativeReflexivePlural?, ?, ?
?, ?
?, ?
?, ??
?, ????
?, ??
?, ?
?, ????
(???
), ???
(???
), ??
?, ??????
(???
), ???
(???
), ??
?, ?????
?, ??
?, ?????
(??
), ??
(??
), ?
?, ?????
(???
), ???
(???
)Suffix Noun phrase Noun(a) ??????mother?s???mother??
?Genitive(b) ?????????Haraa?
(river name)s????
?HaraaFigure 4: Examples of the suffix segmentation rule.deferent rule independently.
The underlined suffixesare segmented in each phrase, respectively.
In phrase(a), there is no inflection, and the suffix is easilysegmented.
However, in phrase (b), a consonantinsertion has occurred.
Thus, both the insertedconsonant, ??
?, and the suffix have to be removed.The vowel insertion rule consists of 12 rules.
Toinsert an eliminated vowel and extract the originalform of the noun, we check the last two characters ofa target noun.
If both of these are consonants, wedetermine that a vowel was eliminated.However, a number of nouns end with twoconsonants inherently, and therefore, we referred to atextbook on Mongolian grammar (Bayarmaa, 2002)to produce 12 rules to determine when to insert avowel between two consecutive consonants.For example, if any of ??
?, ??
?, ??
?, ??
?, ??
?, or???
are at the end of a noun, a vowel is inserted.However, if any of ??
?, ??
?, ??
?, ??
?, ??
?, ??
?, ???,??
?, or ???
are the second to last consonant in a noun,a vowel is not inserted.The Mongolian vowel harmony rule is aphonological rule in which female vowels and malevowels are prohibited from occurring in a singleword together (with the exception of proper nouns).We used this rule to determine which vowel shouldbe inserted.
The appropriate vowel is determined bythe first vowel of the first syllable in the target noun.660For example, if there are ???
and ???
in the firstsyllable, the vowel ???
is inserted between the lasttwo consonants.3.3 Extracting candidate loanwordsAfter collecting nouns using our stemming method,we discard the conventional Mongolian nouns.
Wediscard nouns defined in a noun dictionary(Sanduijav et al, 2005), which includes 1,926 nouns.We also discard proper nouns and abbreviations.
Thefirst characters of proper nouns, such as ??????????
(Erdenebat)?, and all the characters of abbreviations,such as ?????
(Nuclear research centre)?, arewritten using capital letters in Mongolian.
Thus, wediscard words that are written using capitalcharacters, except those occurring at the beginning ofsentences.
In addition, because ???
and ???
are notused to spell out Western languages, words includingthose characters are also discarded.3.4 Extracting loanwords based on rulesWe manually produced seven rules to identifyloanwords in Mongolian.
Words that match with oneof the following rules are extracted as loanwords.
(a) A word including the consonants ??
?, ??
?, ??
?,or ??
?.These consonants are usually used to spell outforeign words.
(b) A word that violated the Mongolian vowelharmony rule.Because of the vowel harmony rule, a wordthat includes female and male vowels, which isnot based on the Mongolian phonetic system, isprobably a loanword.
(c) A word beginning with two consonants.A conventional Mongolian word does notbegin with two consonants.
(d) A word ending with two particular consonants.A word whose penultimate character is anyof: ??
?, ??
?, ??
?, ??
?, ??
?, ??
?, or ???
andwhose last character is a consonant violatesMongolian grammar, and is probably aloanword.
(e) A word beginning with the consonant ??
?.In a modern Mongolian dictionary (Ozawa,2000), there are 54 words beginning with ??
?,of which 31 are loanwords.
Therefore, a wordbeginning with ???
is probably a loanword.
(f) A word beginning with the consonant ??
?.In a modern Mongolian dictionary (Ozawa,2000), there are 49 words beginning with ??
?,of which only four words are conventionalMongolian words.
Therefore, a word beginningwith ???
is probably a loanword.
(g) A word ending with ?<consonant> + ?
?.We discovered this rule empirically.3.5 RomanizationWe manually aligned each Mongolian Cyrillicalphabet to its Roman representation1.In Japanese, the Hepburn and Kunrei systems arecommonly used for romanization proposes.
We usedthe Hepburn system, because its representation issimilar to that used in Mongolian, compared to theKunrei system.However, we adapted 11 Mongolian romanizationexpressions to the Japanese Hepburn romanization.For example, the sound of the letter ?L?
does notexist in Japanese, and thus, we converted ?L?
to ?R?in Mongolian.3.6 N-gram retrievalBy using a document retrieval method, we efficientlyidentify Katakana words that are phonetically similarto a candidate loanword.
In other words, we use acandidate loanword, and each Katakana word as aquery and a document, respectively.
We call thismethod ?N-gram retrieval?.Because the N-gram retrieval method does notconsider the order of the characters in a target word,the accuracy of matching two words is low, but thecomputation time is fast.
On the other hand, becauseDP matching considers the order of the characters ina target word, the accuracy of matching two words ishigh, but the computation time is slow.
We combinedthese two methods to achieve a high matchingaccuracy with a reasonable computation time.First, we extract Katakana words that arephonetically similar to a candidate loanword usingN-gram retrieval.
Second, we compute the similaritybetween the candidate loanword and each of theretrieved Katakana words using DP matching toimprove the accuracy.We romanize all the Katakana words in thedictionary and index them using consecutive N1 http://badaa.mngl.net/docs.php?p=trans_table (May, 2006)661characters.
We also romanize each candidateloanword when use as a query.
We experimentallyset N = 2, and use the Okapi BM25 (Robertson et al,1995) for the retrieval model.3.7 Computing phonetic similarityGiven the romanized Katakana words and theromanized candidate loanwords, we compute thesimilarity between the two strings, and select thepairs associated with a score above a predefinedthreshold as translations.
We use DP matching toidentify the number of differences (i.e., insertion,deletion, and substitution) between two strings on analphabet-by-alphabet basis.While consonants in transliteration are usually thesame across languages, vowels can vary dependingon the language.
The difference in consonantsbetween two strings should be penalized more thanthe difference in vowels.
We compute the similaritybetween two romanized words using Equation (1).vcdvdc+?+???
??
)(21           (1)Here, dc and dv denote the number of differences inconsonants and vowels, respectively, and ?
is aparametric consonant used to control the importanceof the consonants.
We experimentally set ?
= 2.Additionally, c and v denote the number of all theconsonants and vowels in the two strings,respectively.
The similarity ranges from 0 to 1.4 Experiments4.1 MethodWe collected 1,118 technical reports published inMongolian from the ?Mongolian IT Park?2 and usedthem as a Mongolian corpus.
The number of phrasetypes and phrase tokens in our corpus were 110,458and 263,512, respectively.We collected 111,116 Katakana words frommultiple Japanese dictionaries, most of which weretechnical term dictionaries.We evaluated our method from four perspectives:?stemming?, ?loanword extraction?, ?translationextraction?, and ?computational cost.?
We willdiscuss these further in Sections 4.2-4.5, respectively.4.2 Evaluating stemmingWe randomly selected 50 Mongolian technical2 http://www.itpark.mn/ (May, 2006)reports from our corpus, and used them to evaluatethe accuracy of our stemming method.
Thesetechnical reports were related to: medicalscience (17), geology (10), light industry (14),agriculture (6), and sociology (3).
In these 50 reports,the number of phrase types including conventionalMongolian nouns and loanword nouns was 961 and206, respectively.
We also found six phrasesincluding loanword verbs, which were not used inthe evaluation.Table 2 shows the results of our stemmingexperiment, in which the accuracy for conventionalMongolian nouns was 98.7% and the accuracy forloanwords was 94.6%.
Our stemming method ispractical, and can also be used for morphologicalanalysis of Mongolian corpora.We analyzed the reasons for any failures, andfound that for 12 conventional nouns and 11loanwords, the suffixes were incorrectly segmented.4.3 Evaluating loanword extractionWe used our stemming method on our corpus andselected the most frequently used 1,300 words.
Weused these words to evaluate the accuracy of ourloanword extraction method.
Of these 1,300 words,165 were loanwords.
We varied the threshold for thesimilarity, and investigated the relationship betweenprecision and recall.
Recall is the ratio of the numberof correct loanwords extracted by our method to thetotal number of correct loanwords.
Precision is theratio of the number of correct loanwords extractedby our method to the total number of wordsextracted by our method.
We extracted loanwordsusing rules (a)?
(g) defined in Section 3.4.
As a result,139 words were extracted.Table 3 shows the precision and recall of each rule.The precision and recall showed high values using?All rules?, which combined the words extracted byrules (a)?
(g) independently.We also extracted loanwords using the phoneticsimilarity, as discussed in Sections 3.6 and 3.7.Table 2: Results of our noun stemming method.No.
of each phrase type Accuracy (%)Conventionalnouns961 98.7Loanwords 206 94.6662We used the N-gram retrieval method to obtain up tothe top 500 Katakana words that were similar to eachcandidate loanword.
Then, we selected up to the topfive pairs of a loanword and a Katakana word whosesimilarity computed using Equation (1) was greaterthan 0.6.
Table 4 shows the results of oursimilarity-based extraction.Both the precision and the recall for thesimilarity-based loanword extraction were lowerthan those for the ?All rules?
data listed in Table 3.Table 4: Precision and recall for our similarity-basedloanword extraction.Words extractedautomaticallyExtracted correctloanwordsPrecision(%)Recall(%)3,479 109 3.1 66.1We also evaluated the effectiveness of acombination of the N-gram and DP matchingmethods.
We performed similarity-based extractionafter rule-based extraction.
Table 5 shows the results,in which the data of the ?Rule?
are identical to thoseof the ?All rules?
data listed in Table 3.
However, the?Similarity?
data are not identical to those listed inTable 4, because we performed similarity-basedextraction using only the words that were notextracted by rule-based extraction.When we combined the rule-based andsimilarity-based methods, the recall improved from84.2% to 91.5%.
The recall value should be highwhen a human expert modifies or verifies theresultant dictionary.Figure 5 shows example of extracted loanwords inMongolian and their English glosses.4.4 Evaluating Translation extractionIn the row ?Both?
shown in Table 5, 151 loanwordswere extracted, for each of which we selected up tothe top five Katakana words whose similaritycomputed using Equation (1) was greater than 0.6 asTable 3: Precision and recall for rule-based loanword extraction.Rules (a) (b)(c) (d) (e) (f) (g) All rulesWords extracted automatically 102 6321 6 4 5 24 150Extracted correct loanwords 101 6020 5 45 19 139Precision (%) 99.0 95.2 95.2 83.3Table 5: Precision and recall of different loanwordextraction methods.No.
ofwordsNo.
thatwere correctPrecision(%)Recall(%)Rule 150 139 92.7 84.2Similarity 60 12 20.0 46.2Both 210 151 71.2 91.5Mongolian English gloss?????????????????????????????????
?albuminlaboratorymechanismmitochondriaFigure 5: Example of extracted loanwords.translations.
As a result, Japanese translations wereextracted for 109 loanwords.
Table 6 shows theresults, in which the precision and recall ofextracting Japanese?Mongolian translations were56.2% and 72.2%, respectively.We analyzed the data and identified the reasonsfor any failures.
For five loanwords, the N-gramretrieval failed to search for the similar Katakanawords.
For three loanwords, the phonetic similaritycomputed using Equation (1) was not high enoughfor a correct translation.
For 27 loanwords, theJapanese translations did not exist inherently.
Forseven loanwords, the Japanese translations existed,but were not included in our Katakana dictionary.Figure 6 shows the Japanese translations extractedfor the loanwords shown in Figure 5.Table 6: Precision and recall for translationextraction.No.
of translationsextractedautomaticallyNo.
of extractedcorrecttranslationsPrecision(%)Recall(%)194 109 56.2 72.2100 100 79.2 92.7Recall (%) 61.2 36.4 12.1 3.0 2.4 3.03 11.5 84.2663Japanese Mongolian English gloss??????????
??????????????????????????????????????????????
?albuminlaboratorymechanismmitochondriaFigure 6: Japanese translations extracted for theloanwords shown in Figure 5.4.5 Evaluating computational costWe randomly selected 100 loanwords from ourcorpus, and used them to evaluate the computationalcost of the different extraction methods.
Wecompared the computation time and the accuracy of?N-gram?, ?DP matching?, and ?N-gram + DPmatching?
methods.
The experiments wereperformed using the same PC (CPU = Pentium III 1GHz dual, Memory = 2 GB).Table 7 shows the improvement in computationtime by ?N-gram + DP matching?
on ?DP matching?,and the average rank of the correct translations for?N-gram?.
We improved the efficiency, whilemaintaining the sorting accuracy of the translations.Table 7: Evaluation of the computational cost.Method N-gram DP N-gram + DPLoanwords 100Computation time (sec.)
95 136,815 293Extracted correcttranslations66 66 66Average rank of correcttranslations44.8 2.7 2.75 ConclusionWe proposed methods for extracting loanwords fromCyrillic Mongolian corpora and producing aJapanese?Mongolian bilingual dictionary.
Ourresearch is the first serious effort in producingdictionaries of loanwords and their translationstargeting Mongolian.
We devised our own rules toextract loanwords from Mongolian corpora.
We alsoextracted words in Mongolian corpora that arephonetically similar to Japanese Katakana words asloanwords.
We also corresponded the extractedloanwords to Japanese words, and produced aJapanese?Mongolian bilingual dictionary.
A nounstemming method that does not require noundictionaries was also proposed.
Finally, we evaluatedthe effectiveness of the components experimentally.ReferencesTerumasa Ehara, Suzushi Hayata, and Nobuyuki Kimura.
2004.Mongolian morphological analysis using ChaSen.
Proceedingsof the 10th Annual Meeting of the Association for NaturalLanguage Processing, pp.
709-712.
(In Japanese).Atsushi Fujii, Tetsuya Ishikawa, and Jong-Hyeok Lee.
2004.Term extraction from Korean corpora via Japanese.Proceedings of the 3rd International Workshop onComputational Terminology, pp.
71-74.Pascal Fung and Kathleen McKeown.
1996.
Finding terminologytranslations from non-parallel corpora.
Proceedings of the 5thAnnual Workshop on Very Large Corpora, pp.
53-87.Wai Lam, Ruizhang Huang, and Pik-Shan Cheung.
2004.Learning phonetic similarity for matching named entitytranslations and mining new translations.
Proceedings of the27th Annual International ACM SIGIR Conference onResearch and Development in Information Retrieval, pp.289-296.Sung Hyun Myaeng and Kil-Soon Jeong.
1999.Back-Transliteration of foreign words for information retrieval.Information Processing and Management, Vol.
35, No.
4, pp.523 -540.Jong-Hooh Oh and Key-Sun Choi.
2001.
Automatic extraction oftransliterated foreign words using hidden markov model.Proceedings of the International Conference on ComputerProcessing of Oriental Languages, 2001, pp.
433-438.Shigeo Ozawa.
Modern Mongolian Dictionary.
Daigakushorin.2000.Stephen E. Robertson, Steve Walker, Susan Jones, MichelineHancock-Beaulieu, and Mike Gatford.
1995.
Okapi at TREC-3,Proceedings of the Third Text REtrieval Conference (TREC-3),NIST Special Publication 500-226. pp.
109-126.Enkhbayar Sanduijav, Takehito Utsuro, and Satoshi Sato.
2005.Mongolian phrase generation and morphological analysisbased on phonological and morphological constraints.
Journalof Natural Language Processing, Vol.
12, No.
5, pp.
185-205.
(In Japanese) .Frank Smadja, Vasileios Hatzivassiloglou, Kathleen R. McKeown.1996.
Translating collocations for bilingual lexicons: Astatistical approach.
Computational Linguistics, Vol.
22, No.
1,pp.
1-38.Bayarmaa Ts.
2002.
Mongolian grammar in I-IV grades.
(InMongolian).664
