Proceedings of the COLING/ACL 2006 Main Conference Poster Sessions, pages 827?834,Sydney, July 2006. c?2006 Association for Computational LinguisticsInfrastructure for standardization of Asian language resourcesTokunaga TakenobuTokyo Inst.
of Tech.Virach SornlertlamvanichTCL, NICTThatsanee CharoenpornTCL, NICTNicoletta CalzolariILC/CNRMonica MonachiniILC/CNRClaudia SoriaILC/CNRChu-Ren HuangAcademia SinicaXia YingJuFujitsu R&D CenterYu HaoFujitsu R&D CenterLaurent PrevotAcademia SinicaShirai KiyoakiJAISTAbstractAs an area of great linguistic and cul-tural diversity, Asian language resourceshave received much less attention thantheir western counterparts.
Creating acommon standard for Asian language re-sources that is compatible with an interna-tional standard has at least three strong ad-vantages: to increase the competitive edgeof Asian countries, to bring Asian coun-tries to closer to their western counter-parts, and to bring more cohesion amongAsian countries.
To achieve this goal, wehave launched a two year project to createa common standard for Asian language re-sources.
The project is comprised of fourresearch items, (1) building a descriptionframework of lexical entries, (2) buildingsample lexicons, (3) building an upper-layer ontology and (4) evaluating the pro-posed framework through an application.This paper outlines the project in terms ofits aim and approach.1 IntroductionThere is a long history of creating a standardfor western language resources.
The humanlanguage technology (HLT) society in Europehas been particularly zealous for the standardiza-tion, making a series of attempts such as EA-GLES1, PAROLE/SIMPLE (Lenci et al, 2000),ISLE/MILE (Calzolari et al, 2003) and LIRICS2.These continuous efforts has been crystallized asactivities in ISO-TC37/SC4 which aims to makean international standard for language resources.1http://www.ilc.cnr.it/Eagles96/home.html2lirics.loria.fr/documents.html(1) Descriptionframework of lexicalentries(2) Sample lexicons(4) Evaluationthrough application(3) Upper layerontologyrefinementdescription classificationrefinementevaluationevaluationFigure 1: Relations among research itemsOn the other hand, since Asia has great lin-guistic and cultural diversity, Asian language re-sources have received much less attention thantheir western counterparts.
Creating a commonstandard for Asian language resources that is com-patible with an international standard has at leastthree strong advantages: to increase the competi-tive edge of Asian countries, to bring Asian coun-tries to closer to their western counterparts, and tobring more cohesion among Asian countries.To achieve this goal, we have launched a twoyear project to create a common standard forAsian language resources.
The project is com-prised of the following four research items.
(1) building a description framework of lexicalentries(2) building sample lexicons(3) building an upper-layer ontology(4) evaluating the proposed framework throughan applicationFigure 1 illustrates the relations among these re-search items.Our main aim is the research item (1), buildinga description framework of lexical entries which827fits with as many Asian languages as possible, andcontributing to the ISO-TC37/SC4 activities.
Asa starting point, we employ an existing descrip-tion framework, the MILE framework (Bertagnaet al, 2004a), to describe several lexical entries ofseveral Asian languages.
Through building sam-ple lexicons (research item (2)), we will find prob-lems of the existing framework, and extend it soas to fit with Asian languages.
In this extension,we need to be careful in keeping consistency withthe existing framework.
We start with Chinese,Japanese and Thai as target Asian languages andplan to expand the coverage of languages.
The re-search items (2) and (3) also comprise the similarfeedback loop.
Through building sample lexicons,we refine an upper-layer ontology.
An applicationbuilt in the research item (4) is dedicated to evalu-ating the proposed framework.
We plan to build aninformation retrieval system using a lexicon builtby extending the sample lexicon.In what follows, section 2 briefly reviews theMILE framework which is a basis of our de-scription framework.
Since the MILE frameworkis originally designed for European languages, itdoes not always fit with Asian languages.
We ex-emplify some of the problems in section 3 and sug-gest some directions to solve them.
We expectthat further problems will come into clear viewthrough building sample lexicons.
Section 4 de-scribes a criteria to choose lexical entries in sam-ple lexicons.
Section 5 describes an approachto build an upper-layer ontology which can besharable among languages.
Section 6 describesan application through which we evaluate the pro-posed framework.2 The MILE framework forinteroperability of lexiconsThe ISLE (International Standards for LanguageEngineering) Computational Lexicon WorkingGroup has consensually defined the MILE (Mul-tilingual ISLE Lexical Entry) as a standardizedinfrastructure to develop multilingual lexical re-sources for HLT applications, with particular at-tention toMachine Translation (MT) and Crosslin-gual Information Retrieval (CLIR) applicationsystems.The MILE is a general architecture devisedfor the encoding of multilingual lexical informa-tion, a meta-entry acting as a common representa-tional layer for multilingual lexicons, by allowingintegration and interoperability between differentmonolingual lexicons3.This formal and standardized framework to en-code MILE-conformant lexical entries is providedto lexicon and application developers by the over-all MILE Lexical Model (MLM).
As concernsthe horizontal organization, the MLM consists oftwo independent, but interlinked primary compo-nents, the monolingual and the multilingual mod-ules.
The monolingual component, on the verticaldimension, is organized over three different repre-sentational layers which allow to describe differ-ent dimensions of lexical entries, namely the mor-phological, syntactic and semantic layers.
More-over, an intermediate module allows to definemechanisms of linkage and mapping between thesyntactic and semantic layers.
Within each layer, abasic linguistic information unit is identified; basicunits are separated but still interlinked each otheracross the different layers.Within each of the MLM layers, different typesof lexical object are distinguished :?
the MILE Lexical Classes (MLC) representthe main building blocks which formalizethe basic lexical notions.
They can be seenas a set of structural elements organized ina layered fashion: they constitute an on-tology of lexical objects as an abstractionover different lexical models and architec-tures.
These elements are the backbone ofthe structural model.
In the MLM a defini-tion of the classes is provided together withtheir attributes and the way they relate to eachother.
Classes represent notions like Inflec-tionalParadigm, SyntacticFunction, Syntac-ticPhrase, Predicate, Argument,?
the MILE Data Categories (MDC) whichconstitute the attributes and values to adornthe structural classes and allow concrete en-tries to be instantiated.
MDC can belong toa shared repository or be user-defined.
?NP?and ?VP?
are data category instances of theclass SyntacticPhrase, whereas and ?subj?and ?obj?
are data category instances of theclass SyntacticFunction.?
lexical operations, which are special lexicalentities allowing the user to define multilin-3MILE is based on the experience derived from exist-ing computational lexicons (e.g.
LE-PAROLE, SIMPLE, Eu-roWordNet, etc.
).828gual conditions and perform operations onlexical entries.Originally, in order to meet expectations placedupon lexicons as critical resources for content pro-cessing in the Semantic Web, the MILE syntacticand semantic lexical objects have been formalizedin RDF(S), thus providing a web-based means toimplement the MILE architecture and allowing forencoding individual lexical entries as instances ofthe model (Ide et al, 2003; Bertagna et al, 2004b).In the framework of our project, by situating ourwork in the context of W3C standards and relyingon standardized technologies underlying this com-munity, the original RDF schema for ISLE lexi-cal entries has been made compliant to OWL.
Thewhole data model has been formalized in OWL byusing Prote?ge?
3.2 beta and has been extended tocover the morphological component as well (seeFigure 2).
Prote?ge?
3.2 beta has been also used asa tool to instantiate the lexical entries of our sam-ple monolingual lexicons, thus ensuring adherenceto the model, encoding coherence and inter- andintra-lexicon consistency.3 Existing problems with the MILEframework for Asian languagesIn this section, we will explain some problematicphenomena of Asian languages and discuss pos-sible extensions of the MILE framework to solvethem.Inflection The MILE provides the powerfulframework to describe the information about in-flection.
InflectedForm class is devoted to de-scribe inflected forms of a word, while Inflec-tionalParadigm to define general inflection rules.However, there is no inflection in several Asianlanguages, such as Chinese and Thai.
For theselanguages, we do not use the Inflected Form andInflectional Paradigm.Classifier Many Asian languages, such asJapanese, Chinese, Thai and Korean, do not dis-tinguish singularity and plurality of nouns, but useclassifiers to denote the number of objects.
Thefollowings are examples of classifiers of Japanese.?
inu(dog)ni(two)hiki(CL)?
?
?
two dogs?
hon(book)go(five)satsu(CL)?
?
?
five books?CL?
stands for a classifier.
They always followcardinal numbers in Japanese.
Note that differ-ent classifiers are used for different nouns.
In theabove examples, classifier ?hiki?
is used to countnoun ?inu (dog)?, while ?satsu?
for ?hon (book)?.The classifier is determined based on the semantictype of the noun.In the Thai language, classifiers are used in var-ious situations (Sornlertlamvanich et al, 1994).The classifier plays an important role in construc-tion with noun to express ordinal, pronoun, for in-stance.
The classifier phrase is syntactically gener-ated according to a specific pattern.
Here are someusages of classifiers and their syntactic patterns.?
Enumeration(Noun/Verb)-(cardinal number)-(CL)e.g.
nakrian(student)3 khon(CL)?
?
?
three students?
Ordinal(Noun)-(CL)-/thi:/-(cardinal number)e.g.
kaew(glass)bai(CL)thi: 4(4th)?
?
?
the 4th glass?
Determination(Noun)-(CL)-(Determiner)e.g.
kruangkhidlek(calculator)kruang(CL)nii(this)?
?
?
this calculatorClassifiers could be dealt as a class of the part-of-speech.
However, since classifiers depend onthe semantic type of nouns, we need to refer tosemantic features in the morphological layer, andvice versa.
Some mechanism to link between fea-tures beyond layers needs to be introduced into thecurrent MILE framework.Orthographic variants Many Chinese wordshave orthographic variants.
For instance, the con-cept of rising can be represented by either char-acter variants of sheng1: ?
or ?.
However,the free variants become non-free in certain com-pound forms.
For instance, only?
allowed for??
?liter?, and only?
is allowed for??
?to sub-lime?.
The interaction of lemmas and orthographicvariations is not yet represented in MILE.Reduplication as a derivational process Insome Asian languages, reduplication of words de-rives another word, and the derived word often hasa different part-of-speech.
Here are some exam-ples of reduplication in Chinese.
Man4 ?
?to beslow?
is a state verb, while a reduplicated form829InflectionalParadigmLexical Entry SyntacticUnitForm Lemmatized Form StemInflected FormCombinerCalculator MrophfeatOperation ArgumentMorphDataCats0..*0..* 0..*0..*0..*0..10..*0..*1..*<LemmatizedForm rdf:ID="LFstar"><hasInflectedForm><InflectedForm rdf:ID="stars"><hasMorphoFeat><MorphoFeat rdf:ID="pl"><number rdf:datatype="http://www.w3c.org/2001/ XMLSchema#string">plural</number></MorphoFeat></hasMorphoFeat></InflectedForm></hasInflectedForm><hasInflectedForm><InflectedForm rdf:ID="star"><hasMorphoFeat><MorphoFeat rdf:ID="sg"><number rdf:datatype="http://www.w3c.org/2001/ XMLSchema#string">singular</number></MorphoFeat></hasMorphoFeat></InflectedForm></hasInflectedForm></LemmatiedForm>Figure 2: Formalization of the morphological layer and excerpt of a sample RDF instantiationman4-man4 ??
is an adverb.
Another exampleof reduplication involves verbal aspect.
Kan4 ?
?to look?
is an activity verb, while the reduplica-tive form kan4-kan4 ?
?, refers to the tentativeaspect, introducing either stage-like sub-divisionor the event or tentativeness of the action of theagent.
This morphological process is not providedfor in the current MILE standard.There are also various usages of reduplication inThai.
Some words reduplicate themselves to add aspecific aspect to the original meaning.
The redu-plication can be grouped into 3 types according tothe tonal sound change of the original word.?
Word reduplication without sound changee.g.
/dek-dek/ ?
?
?
(N) children, (ADV) child-ishly, (ADJ) childish/sa:w-sa:w/ ?
?
?
(N) women?
Word reduplication with high tone on the firstworde.g.
/dam4-dam/ ?
?
?
(ADJ) extremely black/bo:i4-bo:i/ ?
?
?
(ADV) really often?
Triple word reduplication with high tone onthe second worde.g.
/dern-dern4-dern/ ??
(V) intensively walk/norn-norn4-norn/??
(V) intensively sleepIn fact, only the reduplication of the same soundis accepted in the written text, and a special sym-bol, namely /mai-yamok/ is attached to the origi-nal word to represent the reduplication.
The redu-plication occurs in many parts-of-speech, such asnoun, verb, adverb, classifier, adjective, preposi-tion.
Furthermore, various aspects can be addedto the original meaning of the word by reduplica-tion, such as pluralization, emphasis, generaliza-tion, and so on.
These aspects should be instanti-ated as features.Change of parts-of-speech by affixes Af-fixes change parts-of-speech of words inThai (Charoenporn et al, 1997).
There arethree prefixes changing the part-of-speech of theoriginal word, namely /ka:n/, /khwa:m/, /ya:ng/.They are used in the following cases.?
Nominalization/ka:n/ is used to prefix an action verb and/khwa:m/ is used to prefix a state verbin nominalization such as /ka:n-tham-nga:n/(working), /khwa:m-suk/ (happiness).?
AdverbializationAn adverb can be derived by using /ya:ng/ toprefix a state verb such as /ya:ng-di:/ (well).Note that these prefixes are also words, and formmulti-word expressions with the original word.This phenomenon is similar to derivation whichis not handled in the current MILE framework.Derivation is traditionally considered as a differentphenomenon from inflection, and current MILEfocuses on inflection.
The MILE framework is al-ready being extended to treat such linguistic phe-nomenon, since it is important to European lan-guages as well.
It would be handled in either themorphological layer or syntactic layer.830Function Type Function types of predicates(verbs, adjectives etc.)
might be handled in apartially different way for Japanese.
In the syn-tactic layer of the MILE framework, Function-Type class is prepared to denote subcategorizationframes of predicates, and they have function typessuch as ?subj?
and ?obj?.
For example, the verb?eat?
has two FunctionType data categories of?subj?
and ?obj?.
Function types basically standfor positions of case filler nouns.
In Japanese,cases are usually marked by postpositions and casefiller positions themselves do not provide much in-formation on case marking.
For example, both ofthe following sentences mean the same, ?She eatsa pizza.??
kanojo(she)ga(NOM)piza(pizza)wo(ACC)taberu(eat)?
piza(pizza)wo(ACC)kanojo(she)ga(NOM)taberu(eat)?Ga?
and ?wo?
are postpositions which marknominative and accusative cases respectively.Note that two case filler nouns ?she?
and ?pizza?can be exchanged.
That is, the number of slots isimportant, but their order is not.For Japanese, we might use the set of post-positions as values of FunctionType instead ofconventional function types such as ?subj?
and?obj?.
It might be an user defined data category orlanguage dependent data category.
Furthermore,it is preferable to prepare the mapping betweenJapanese postpositions and conventional functiontypes.
This is interesting because it seems morea terminological difference, but the model can beapplied also to Japanese.4 Building sample lexicons4.1 Swadesh list and basic lexiconThe issue involved in defining a basic lexicon for agiven language is more complicated than one maythink (Zhang et al, 2004).
The naive approach ofsimply taking the most frequent words in a lan-guage is flawed in many ways.
First, all frequencycounts are corpus-based and hence inherit the biasof corpus sampling.
For instance, since it is eas-ier to sample written formal texts, words used pre-dominantly in informal contexts are usually under-represented.
Second, frequency of content wordsis topic-dependent and may vary from corpus tocorpus.
Last, and most crucially, frequency of aword does not correlate to its conceptual necessity,which should be an important, if not only, criteriafor core lexicon.
The definition of a cross-lingualbasic lexicon is even more complicated.
The firstissue involves determination of cross-lingual lexi-cal equivalencies.
That is, how to determine thatword a (and not a?)
in language A really is word bin language B.
The second issue involves the deter-mination of what is a basic word in a multilingualcontext.
In this case, not even the frequency of-fers an easy answer since lexical frequency mayvary greatly among different languages.
The thirdissue involves lexical gaps.
That is, if there is aword that meets all criteria of being a basic wordin language A, yet it does not exist in language D(though it may exist in languages B, and C).
Is thisword still qualified to be included in the multilin-gual basic lexicon?It is clear not all the above issues can be un-equivocally solved with the time frame of ourproject.
Fortunately, there is an empirical core lex-icon that we can adopt as a starting point.
TheSwadesh list was proposed by the historical lin-guist Morris Swadesh (Swadesh, 1952), and hasbeen widely used by field and historical linguistsfor languages over the world.
The Swadesh listwas first proposed as lexico-statistical metrics.That is, these are words that can be reliably ex-pected to occur in all historical languages and canbe used as the metrics for quantifying languagevariations and language distance.
The Swadeshlist is also widely used by field linguists whenthey encounter a new language, since almost allof these terms can be expected to occur in anylanguage.
Note that the Swadesh list consists ofterms that embody human direct experience, withculture-specific terms avoided.
Swadesh startedwith a 215 items list, before cutting back to 200items and then to 100 items.
A standard list of207 items is arrived at by unifying the 200 itemslist and the 100 items list.
We take the 207 termsfrom the Swadesh list as the core of our basic lex-icon.
Inclusion of the Swadesh list also gives usthe possibility of covering many Asian languagesin which we do not have the resources to make afull and fully annotated lexicon.
For some of theselanguages, a Swadesh lexicon for reference is pro-vided by a collaborator.4.2 Aligning multilingual lexical entriesSince our goal is to build a multilingual samplelexicon, it is required to align words in several831Asian languages.
In this subsection, we proposea simple method to align words in different lan-guages.
The basic idea for multilingual alignmentis an intermediary by English.
That is, first weprepare word pairs between English and other lan-guages, then combine them together to make cor-respondence among words in several languages.The multilingual alignment method currently weconsider is as follows:1.
Preparing the set of frequent words of eachlanguageSuppose that {Jwi}, {Cwi}, {Twi} is theset of frequent words of Japanese, Chineseand Thai, respectively.
Now we try to con-struct a multilingual lexicon for these threelanguages, however, our multilingual align-ment method can be easily extended to han-dle more languages.2.
Obtaining English translationsA word Xwiis translated into a set of En-glish words EXwijby referring to the bilin-gual dictionary, where X denotes one of ourlanguages, J , C or T .
We can obtain map-pings as in (1).Jw1: EJw11, EJw12, ?
?
?Jw2: EJw21, EJw22, ?
?
?...Cw1: ECw11, ECw12, ?
?
?Cw2: ECw21, ECw22, ?
?
?...Tw1: ETw11, ETw12, ?
?
?Tw2: ETw21, ETw22, ?
?
?...
(1)Notice that this procedure is automaticallydone and ambiguities would be left at thisstage.3.
Generating new mappingFrom mappings in (1), a new mapping is gen-erated by inverting the key.
That is, in thenew mapping, a key is an English word Ewiand a correspondence for each key is setsof translations XEwijfor 3 languages, asshown in (2):Ew1: (JEw11, JEw12, ?
?
?
)(CEw11, CEw12, ?
?
?
)(TEw11, TEw12, ?
?
?
)Ew2: (JEw21, JEw22, ?
?
?
)(CEw21, CEw22, ?
?
?
)(TEw21, TEw22, ?
?
?)...
(2)Notice that at this stage, correspondence be-tween different languages is very loose, sincethey are aligned on the basis of sharing onlya single English word.4.
Refinement of alignmentGroups of English words are constructed byreferring to the WordNet synset information.For example, suppose that Ewiand Ewjbe-long to the same synset Sk.
We will make anew alignment by making an intersection of{XEwi} and {XEwj} as shown in (3).Ewi: (JEwi1, ??)
(CEwi1, ??)
(TEwi1, ??
)Ewj: (JEwj1, ??
)(CEwj1, ??
)(TEwj1, ??)?
intersectionSk: (JEw?k1, ??
)(CEw?k1, ??
)(TEw?k1, ??
)(3)In (3), the key is a synset Sk, which is sup-posed to be a conjunction of Ewiand Ewj,and the counterpart is the intersection of setof translations for each language.
This oper-ation would reduce the number of words ofeach language.
That means, we can expectthat the correspondence among words of dif-ferent languages becomes more precise.
Thisnew word alignment based on a synset is afinal result.To evaluate the performance of this method,we conducted a preliminary experiment using theSwadesh list.
Given the Swadesh list of Chi-nese, Italian, Japanese and Thai as a gold stan-dard, we tried to replicate these lists from the En-glish Swadesh list and bilingual dictionaries be-tween English and these languages.
In this experi-ment, we did not perform the refinement step withWordNet.
From 207 words in the Swadesh list,we dropped 4 words (?at?, ?in?, ?with?
and ?and?
)due to their too many ambiguities in translation.As a result, we obtained 181 word groupsaligned across 5 languages (Chinese, English, Ital-ian, Japanese and Thai) for 203 words.
Analigned word group was judged ?correct?
when thewords of each language include only words in theSwadesh list of that language.
It was judged ?par-tially correct?
when the words of a language alsoinclude the words which are not in the Swadeshlist.
Based on the correct instances, we obtain0.497 for precision and 0.443 for recall.
These fig-ures go up to 0.912 for precision and 0.813 for re-call when based on the partially correct instances.This is quite a promising result.8325 Upper-layer ontologyThe empirical success of the Swadesh list posesan interesting question that has not been exploredbefore.
That is, does the Swadesh list instantiates ashared, fundamental human conceptual structure?And if there is such as a structure, can we discoverit?In the project these fundamental issues are as-sociated with our quest for cross-lingual interop-erability.
We must make sure that the items ofthe basic lexicon are given the same interpreta-tion.
One measure taken to ensure this consists inconstructing an upper-ontology based on the ba-sic lexicon.
Our preliminary work of mapping theSwadesh list items to SUMO (Suggested UpperMerged Ontology) (Niles and Pease, 2001) has al-ready been completed.
We are in the process ofmapping the list to DOLCE (Descriptive Ontologyfor Linguistic and Cognitive Engineering) (Ma-solo et al, 2003).
After the initial mapping, wecarry on the work to restructure the mapped nodesto form a genuine conceptual ontology based onthe language universal basic lexical items.
How-ever one important observation that we have madeso far is that the success of the Swadesh list ispartly due to its underspecification and to the lib-erty it gives to compilers of the list in a new lan-guage.
If this idea of underspecification is essen-tial for basic lexicon for human languages, then wemust resolve this apparent dilemma of specifyingthem in a formal ontology that requires fully spec-ified categories.
For the time being, genuine ambi-guities resulted in the introduction of each disam-biguated sense in the ontology.
We are currentlyinvestigating another solution that allows the in-clusion of underspecified elements in the ontologywithout threatening its coherence.
More specifi-cally we introduce a underspecified relation in thestructure for linking the underspecified meaningto the different specified meaning.
The specifiedmeanings are included in the taxonomic hierarchyin a traditional manner, while a hierarchy of un-derspecified meanings can be derived thanks to thenew relation.
An underspecified node only inheritsfrom the most specific common mother of its fullyspecified terms.
Such distinction avoids the clas-sical misuse of the subsumption relation for rep-resenting multiple meanings.
This method doesnot reflect a dubious collapse of the linguistic andconceptual levels but the treatment of such under-specifications as truly conceptual.
Moreover weInternetQueryLocalDBUser interestmodelTopicFeedbackSearchengineCrawlerRetrievalresultsFigure 3: The system architecturehope this proposal will provide a knowledge rep-resentation framework for the multilingual align-ment method presented in the previous section.Finally, our ontology will not only play the roleof a structured interlingual index.
It will also serveas a common conceptual base for lexical expan-sion, as well as for comparative studies of the lex-ical differences of different languages.6 Evaluation through an applicationTo evaluate the proposed framework, we are build-ing an information retrieval system.
Figure 3shows the system architecture.A user can input a topic to retrieve the docu-ments related to that topic.
A topic can consistof keywords, website URL?s and documents whichdescribe the topic.
From the topic information, thesystem builds a user interest model.
The systemthen uses a search engine and a crawler to searchfor information related to this topic in WWW andstores the results in the local database.
Generally,the search results include many noises.
To filterout these noises, we build a query from the userinterest model and then use this query to retrievedocuments in the local database.
Those documentssimilar to the query are considered as more relatedto the topic and the user?s interest, and are returnedto the user.
When the user obtains these retrievalresults, he can evaluate these documents and givethe feedback to the system, which is used for thefurther refinement of the user interest model.Language resources can contribute to improv-ing the system performance in various ways.Query expansion is a well-known technique whichexpands user?s query terms into a set of similar andrelated terms by referring to ontologies.
Our sys-tem is based on the vector space model (VSM) andtraditional query expansion can be applicable us-ing the ontology.There has been less research on using lexical in-833formation for information retrieval systems.
Onepossibility we are considering is query expansionby using predicate-argument structures of terms.Suppose a user inputs two keywords, ?hockey?and ?ticket?
as a query.
The conventional queryexpansion technique expands these keywords toa set of similar words based on an ontology.
Byreferring to predicate-argument structures in thelexicon, we can derive actions and events as wellwhich take these words as arguments.
In the aboveexample, by referring to the predicate-argumentstructure of ?buy?
or ?sell?, and knowing thatthese verbs can take ?ticket?
in their object role,we can add ?buy?
and ?sell?
to the user?s query.This new type of expansion requires rich lexicalinformation such as predicate argument structures,and the information retrieval system would be agood touchstone of the lexical information.7 Concluding remarksThis paper outlined a new project for creating acommon standard for Asian language resourcesin cooperation with other initiatives.
We startwith three Asian languages, Chinese, Japaneseand Thai, on top of the existing framework whichwas designed mainly for European languages.We plan to distribute our draft to HLT soci-eties of other Asian languages, requesting fortheir feedback through various networks, suchas the Asian language resource committee net-work under Asian Federation of Natural LanguageProcessing (AFNLP)4, and Asian Language Re-source Network project5.
We believe our ef-forts contribute to international activities like ISO-TC37/SC46 (Francopoulo et al, 2006) and to therevision of the ISO Data Category Registry (ISO12620), making it possible to come close to theideal international standard of language resources.AcknowledgmentThis research was carried out through financialsupport provided under the NEDO InternationalJoint Research Grant Program (NEDO Grant).ReferencesF.
Bertagna, A. Lenci, M. Monachini, and N. Calzo-lari.
2004a.
Content interoperability of lexical re-sources, open issues and ?MILE?
perspectives.
In4http://www.afnlp.org/5http://www.language-resource.net/6http://www.tc37sc4.org/Proceedings of the 4th International Conference onLanguage Resources and Evaluation (LREC2004),pages 131?134.F.
Bertagna, A. Lenci, M. Monachini, and N. Calzo-lari.
2004b.
The MILE lexical classes: Data cat-egories for content interoperability among lexicons.In A Registry of Linguistic Data Categories withinan Integrated Language Resources Repository Area?
LREC2004 Satellite Workshop, page 8.N.
Calzolari, F. Bertagna, A. Lenci, and M. Mona-chini.
2003.
Standards and best practice for mul-tilingual computational lexicons.
MILE (the mul-tilingual ISLE lexical entry).
ISLE DeliverableD2.2&3.2.T.
Charoenporn, V. Sornlertlamvanich, and H. Isahara.1997.
Building a large Thai text corpus ?
part-of-speech tagged corpus: ORCHID?.
In Proceed-ings of the Natural LanguageProcessing Pacific RimSymposium.G.
Francopoulo, G. Monte, N. Calzolari, M. Mona-chini, N. Bel, M. Pet, and C. Soria.
2006.
Lex-ical markup framework (LMF).
In Proceedings ofLREC2006 (forthcoming).N.
Ide, A. Lenci, and N. Calzolari.
2003.
RDF in-stantiation of ISLE/MILE lexical entries.
In Pro-ceedings of the ACL 2003 Workshop on LinguisticAnnotation: Getting the Model Right, pages 25?34.A.
Lenci, N. Bel, F. Busa, N. Calzolari, E. Gola,M.
Monachini, A. Ogonowsky, I. Peters, W. Peters,N.
Ruimy, M. Villegas, and A. Zampolli.
2000.SIMPLE: A general framework for the developmentof multilingual lexicons.
International Journal ofLexicography, Special Issue, Dictionaries, Thesauriand Lexical-Semantic Relations, XIII(4):249?263.C.
Masolo, A. Borgo, S.; Gangemi, N. Guarino, andA.
Oltramari.
2003.
Wonderweb deliverable d18?ontology library (final)?.
Technical report, Labo-ratory for Applied Ontology, ISTC-CNR.I.
Niles and A Pease.
2001.
Towards a standard upperontology.
In Proceedings of the 2nd InternationalConference on Formal Ontology in Information Sys-tems (FOIS-2001).V.
Sornlertlamvanich, W. Pantachat, and S. Mek-navin.
1994.
Classifier assignment by corpus-based approach.
In Proceedings of the 15th Inter-national Conference on Computational Linguistics(COLING-94), pages 556?561.M.
Swadesh.
1952.
Lexico-statistical dating of pre-historic ethnic contacts: With special reference tonorth American Indians and Eskimos.
In Proceed-ings of the American Philo-sophical Society, vol-ume 96, pages 452?463.H.
Zhang, C. Huang, and S. Yu.
2004.
Distributionalconsistency: A general method for defining a corelexicon.
In Proceedings of the 4th InternationalConference on Language Resources and Evaluation(LREC2004), pages 1119?1222.834
