Proceedings of the COLING/ACL 2006 Interactive Presentation Sessions, pages 53?56,Sydney, July 2006. c?2006 Association for Computational LinguisticsRe-Usable Tools for Precision Machine Translation?Jan Tore L?nning?
and Stephan Oepen??
?Universitetet i Oslo, Computer Science Institute, Boks 1080 Blindern; 0316 Oslo (Norway)?Center for the Study of Language and Information, Stanford, CA 94305 (USA){ jtl@ifi.uio.no |oe@csli.stanford.edu}AbstractThe LOGON MT demonstrator assemblesindependently valuable general-purposeNLP components into a machine trans-lation pipeline that capitalizes on outputquality.
The demonstrator embodies an in-teresting combination of hand-built, sym-bolic resources and stochastic processes.1 BackgroundThe LOGON projects aims at building an exper-imental machine translation system from Norwe-gian to English of texts in the domain of hiking inthe wilderness (Oepen et al, 2004).
It is fundedwithin the Norwegian Research Council programfor building national infrastructure for languagetechnology (Fenstad et al, 2006).
It is the goalfor the program as well as for the project to in-clude various areas of language technology as wellas various methods, in particular symbolic andempirical methods.
Besides, the project aims atreusing available resources and, in turn, producingre-usable technology.In spite of significant progress in statistical ap-proaches to machine translation, we doubt thelong-term value of pure statistical (or data-driven)approaches, both practically and scientifically.
Toensure grammaticality of outputs as well as fe-licity of the translation both linguistic grammarsand deep semantic analysis are needed.
The ar-chitecture of the LOGON system hence consists ofa symbolic backbone system combined with vari-ous stochastic components for ranking system hy-potheses.
In a nutshell, a central research questionin LOGON is to what degree state-of-the-art ?deep?NLP resources can contribute towards a precisionMT system.
We hope to engage the conferenceaudience in some reflection on this question bymeans of the interactive presentation.2 System DesignThe backbone of the LOGON prototype imple-ments a relatively conventional architecture, orga-?This demonstration reects the work of a large groupof people whose contributions we gratefully acknowledge.Please see ?http://www.emmtee.net?
for background.
?h1,{ h1:proposition m(h3),h4:proper q(x5, h6, h7), h8:named(x5,?Bod??
),h9: populate v(e2, , x5), h9: densely r(e2) },{ h3 =q h9, h6 =q h8 } ?Figure 1: Simplied MRS representation for the utterance?Bod?
is densely populated.?
The core of the structure is a bagof elementary predications (EPs), using distinguished han-dles (?hi?
variables) and ?=q?
(equal modulo quantier inser-tion) constraints to underspecify scopal relations.
Event- andinstance-type variables (?ej?
and ?xk?, respectively) capturesemantic linking among EPs, where we assume a small inven-tory of thematically bleached role labels (ARG0 ... ARGn).These are abbreviated through order-coding in the exampleabove (see ?
2 below for details).nized around in-depth grammatical analysis in thesource language (SL), semantic transfer of logical-form meaning representations from the source intothe target language (TL), and full, grammar-basedTL tactical generation.Minimal Recursion Semantics The three corephases communicate in a uniform semantic in-terface language, Minimal Recursion Semantics(MRS; Copestake, Flickinger, Sag, & Pollard,1999).
Broadly speaking, MRS is a flat, event-based (neo-Davidsonian) framework for computa-tional semantics.
The abstraction from SL and TLsurface properties enforced in our semantic trans-fer approach facilitates a novel combination of di-verse grammatical frameworks, viz.
LFG for Nor-wegian analysis and HPSG for English generation.While an in-depth introduction to MRS (for MT)is beyond the scope of this project note, Figure 1presents a simplified example semantics.Norwegian Analysis Syntactic analysis of Nor-wegian is based on an existing LFG resource gram-mar, NorGram (Dyvik, 1999), under developmenton the Xerox Linguistic Environment (XLE) sincearound 1999.
For use in LOGON, the gram-mar has been modified and extended, and it hasbeen augmented with a module of Minimal Re-cursion Semantics representations which are com-puted from LFG f-structures by co-description.In Norwegian, compounding is a productivemorphological process, thus presenting the anal-ysis engine with a steady supply of ?new?
words,e.g.
something like klokkeslettuttrykk meaning ap-53NorwegianAnalysis(LFG) ffPVM-NorGramLexicon?NorwegianSEM-I6-LOGONController ffPVM- EnglishGeneration(HPSG)ERGLexicon?EnglishSEM-I6ffNO?
ENTransfer(MRS)6PVM ?GUI 6?
WWW6?Figure 2: Schematic system architecture: the three core pro-cessing components are managed by a central controller thatpasses intermediate results (MRSs) through the translationpipeline.
The Parallel Virtual Machine (PVM) layer facilitatesdistribution, parallelization, failure detection, and roll-over.proximately time-of-day expression.
The projectuses its own morphological analyzer, compiledoff a comprehesive computational lexicon of Nor-wegian, prior to syntactic analysis.
One impor-tant feature of this processor is that it decomposescompounds in such a way that they can be compo-sitionally translated downstream.Current analysis coverage (including well-formed MRSs) on the LOGON corpus (see below)is approaching 80 per cent (of which 25 per centare ?fragmented?, i.e.
approximative analyses).Semantic Transfer Unlike in parsing and gen-eration, there is less established common wisdomin terms of (semantic) transfer formalisms andalgorithms.
LOGON follows many of the mainVerbmobil ideas?transfer as a resource-sensitiverewrite process, where rules replace MRS frag-ments (SL to TL) in a step-wise manner (Wahlster,2000)?but adds two innovative elements to thetransfer component, viz.
(i) the use of typing forhierarchical organization of transfer rules and (ii)a chart-like treatment of transfer-level ambiguity.The general form of MRS transfer rules (MTRs) isas a quadruple:[ CONTEXT : ] INPUT [ !
FILTER ] ?
OUTPUTwhere each of the four components, in turn, isa partial MRS, i.e.
triplet of a top handle, bag ofEPs, and handle constraints.
Left-hand side com-ponents are unified against an input MRS M and,when successful, trigger the rule application; ele-ments of M matched by INPUT are replaced withthe OUTPUT component, respecting all variablebindings established during unification.
The op-tional CONTEXT and FILTER components serve tocondition rule application (on the presence or ab-sence of specific aspects of M ), establish bindingsfor OUTPUT processing, but do not consume el-ements of M .
Although our current focus is on?lingo/jan-06/jh1/06-01-20/lkb?
Generation Profiletotal word distinct overall timeAggregate items string trees coverage (s)] ?
?
% ?30 ?
i-length < 40 21 33.1 241.5 61.9 36.520 ?
i-length < 30 174 23.0 158.6 80.5 15.710 ?
i-length < 20 353 14.3 66.7 86.7 4.10 ?
i-length < 10 495 4.6 6.0 90.1 0.7Total 1044 11.6 53.50 86.7 4.3(generated by [incr tsdb()] at 15-mar-2006 (15:51 h))Table 1: Central measures of generator performance in re-lation to input ?complexity?.
The columns are, from left toright, the corpus sub-division by input length, total numberof items, and average string length, ambiguity rate, grammat-ical coverage, and generation time, respectively.translation into English, MTRs in principle statetranslational correspondence relations and, mod-ulo context conditioning, can be reversed.Transfer rules use a multiple-inheritance hier-archy with strong typing and appropriate featureconstraints both for elements of MRSs and MTRsthemselves.
In close analogy to constraint-basedgrammar, typing facilitates generalizations overtransfer regularities?hierarchies of predicates orcommon MTR configurations, for example?andaids development and debugging.An important tool in the constructions of thetransfer rules are the semantic interfaces (calledSEM-Is, see below) of the respective grammars.While we believe that hand-crafted lexical trans-fer is a necessary component in precision-orientedMT, it is also a bottleneck for the developmentof the LOGON system, with its pre-existing sourceand target language grammars.
We have thereforeexperimented with the acquistion of transfer rulesby analogy from a bi-lingual dictionary, buildingon hand-built transfer rules as a seed set of tem-plates (Nordga?rd, Nygaard, L?nning, & Oepen,2006).English Generation Realization of post-transferMRSs in LOGON builds on the pre-existing LinGOEnglish Resource Grammar (ERG; Flickinger,2000) and LKB generator (Carroll, Copestake,Flickinger, & Poznanski, 1999).
The ERG al-ready produced MRS outputs with good coveragein several domains.
In LOGON, it has been refined,adopted to the new domain, and semantic repre-sentations revised in light of cross-linguistic ex-periences from MT.
Furthermore, chart generationefficiency and integration with stochastic realiza-tion have been substantially improved (Carroll &Oepen, 2005).
Table 1 summarizes (exhaustive)generator performance on a segment of the LOGON54temp locat p temp in p temp on p temptemp abstrafternoon n day n ?
?
?
year nFigure 3: Excerpt from predicate hierarchies provided by English SEM-I.
Temporal, directional, and other usages of prepo-sitions give rise to distinct, but potentially related, semantic predicates.
Likewise, the SEM-I incorporates some ontologicalinformation, e.g.
a classication of temporal entities, though crucially only to the extent that is actually grammaticized in thelanguage proper.development corpus: realizations average at a lit-tle less than twelve words in length.
After additionof domain-specific vocabulary and a small amountof fine-tuning, the ERG provides adequate analysesfor close to ninety per cent of the LOGON referencetranslations.
For about half the test cases, all out-puts can be generated in less than one cpu second.End-to-End Coverage The current LOGON sys-tem will only produce output(s) when all threeprocessing phases succeed.
For the LOGON targetcorpus (see below), this is presently the case in 35per cent of cases.
Averaging over actual outputsonly, the system achieves a (respectable) BLEUscore of 0.61; averaging over the entire corpus, i.e.counting inputs with processing errors as a zerocontribution, the BLEU score drops to 0.21.3 Stochastic ComponentsTo deal with competing hypotheses at all process-ing levels, LOGON incorporates various stochasticprocesses for disambiguation.
In the following, wepresent the ones that are best developed to date.Training Material A corpus of some 50,000words of edited, running Norwegian text was gath-ered and translated by three professional transla-tors.
Three quarters of the material are availablefor system development and also serve as trainingdata for machine learning approaches.
Using thediscriminant-based Redwoods approach to tree-banking (Oepen, Flickinger, Toutanova, & Man-ning, 2004), a first 5,000 English reference transla-tions were hand-annotated and released to the pub-lic.1 In on-going work on adapting the Redwoodsapproach to (Norwegian) LFG, we are working totreebank a sizable text segment (Rose?n, Smedt,Dyvik, & Meurer, 2005; Oepen & L?nning, 2006).Parse Selection The XLE analyzer includes sup-port for stochastic parse selection models, assign-ing likelihood measures to competing analyses1See ?http://www.delph-in.net/redwoods/?for the LinGO Redwoods treebank in its latest release,dubbed Norwegian Growth.
(Riezler et al, 2002).
Using a trial LFG treebankfor Norwegian (of less than 100 annotated sen-tences), we have adapted the tools for the currentLOGON version and are now working to train onlarger data sets and evaluate parse selection perfor-mance.
Despite the very limited amount of train-ing so far, the model already appears to pick upon plausible, albeit crude preferences (as regardstopicalization, for example).
Furthermore, to re-duce fan-out in exhaustive processing, we collapseanalyses that project equivalent MRSs, i.e.
syntac-tic distinctions made in the grammar but not re-flected in the semantics.Realization Ranking At an average of morethan fifty English realizations per input MRS (seeTable 1), ranking generator outputs is a vital partof the LOGON pipeline.
Based on a notion of au-tomatically derived symmetric treebanks, we havetrained comprehensive discriminative, log-linearmodels that (within the LOGON domain) achieveup to 75 per cent exact match accuracy in pick-ing the most likely realization among compet-ing outputs (Velldal & Oepen, 2005).
The best-performing models make use of configurational(in terms of tree topology) as well as of string-level properties (including local word order andconstituent weight), both with varied domains oflocality.
In total, there are around 300,000 featureswith non-trivial distribution, and we combine theMaxEnt model with a traditional language modeltrained on a much larger corpus (the BNC).
Thelatter, more standard approach to realization rank-ing, when used in isolation only achieves around50 per cent accuracy, however.4 ImplementationFigure 2 presents the main components of the LO-GON prototype, where all component communica-tion is in terms of sets of MRSs and, thus, can easilybe managed in a distributed and (potentially) par-allel client ?
server set-up.
Both the analysis andgeneration grammars ?publish?
their interface totransfer?i.e.
the inventory and synopsis of seman-55tic predicates?in the form of a Semantic Inter-face specification (?SEM-I?
; Flickinger, L?nning,Dyvik, Oepen, & Bond, 2005), such that trans-fer can operate without knowledge about gram-mar internals.
In practical terms, SEM-Is arean important development tool (facilitating well-formedness testing of interface representations atall levels), but they also have interesting theoret-ical status with regard to transfer.
The SEM-Isfor the Norwegian analysis and English genera-tion grammars, respectively, provide an exhaus-tive enumeration of legitimate semantic predicates(i.e.
the transfer vocabulary) and ?terms of use?,i.e.
for each predicate its set of appropriate roles,corresponding value constraints, and indication of(semantic) optionality of roles.
Furthermore, theSEM-I provides generalizations over classes ofpredicates?e.g.
hierarchical relations like thosedepicted in Figure 3 below?that play an impor-tant role in the organization of MRS transfer rules.5 Open-Source Machine TranslationDespite the recognized need for translation, thereis no widely used open-source machine translationsystem.
One of the major reasons for this lack ofsuccess is the complexity of the task.
By asso-ciation to the international open-source DELPH-IN effort2 and with its strong emphasis on re-usability, LOGON aims to help build a repository ofopen-source precision tools.
This means that workon the MT system benefits other projects, andwork on other projects can improve the MT sys-tem (where EBMT and SMT systems provide re-sults that are harder to re-use).
While the XLE soft-ware used for Norwegian analysis remains propri-etary, we have built an open-source bi-directionalJapanese ?
English prototype adaptation of the LO-GON system (Bond, Oepen, Siegel, Copestake, &Flickinger, 2005).
This system will be availablefor public download by the summer of 2006.ReferencesBond, F., Oepen, S., Siegel, M., Copestake, A., & Flickinger,D.
(2005).
Open source machine translation with DELPH-IN.
In Proceedings of the Open-Source Machine Trans-lation workshop at the 10th Machine Translation Summit(pp.
15 ?
22).
Phuket, Thailand.Carroll, J., Copestake, A., Flickinger, D., & Poznanski, V.(1999).
An efcient chart generator for (semi-)lexicalistgrammars.
In Proceedings of the 7th European Workshopon Natural Language Generation (pp.
86 ?
95).
Toulouse,France.2See ?http://www.delph-in.net?
for details, in-cluding the lists of participating sites and already availableresources.Carroll, J., & Oepen, S. (2005).
High-efciency realizationfor a wide-coverage unication grammar.
In R. Dale &K.-F. Wong (Eds.
), Proceedings of the 2nd InternationalJoint Conference on Natural Language Processing (Vol.3651, pp.
165 ?
176).
Jeju, Korea: Springer.Copestake, A., Flickinger, D., Sag, I.
A., & Pollard, C.(1999).
Minimal Recursion Semantics.
An introduction.In preparation, CSLI Stanford, Stanford, CA.Dyvik, H. (1999).
The universality of f-structure.
Discov-ery or stipulation?
The case of modals.
In Proceedings ofthe 4th International Lexical Functional Grammar Con-ference.
Manchester, UK.Fenstad, J.-E., Ahrenberg, L., Kvale, K., Maegaard, B.,M?uhlenbock, K., & Heid, B.-E. (2006).
KUNSTI.
Knowl-edge generation for Norwegian language technology.
InProceedings of the 5th International Conference on Lan-guage Resources and Evaluation.
Genoa, Italy.Flickinger, D. (2000).
On building a more efcient grammarby exploiting types.
Natural Language Engineering, 6 (1),15 ?
28.Flickinger, D., L?nning, J. T., Dyvik, H., Oepen, S., & Bond,F.
(2005).
SEM-I rational MT.
Enriching deep grammarswith a semantic interface for scalable machine translation.In Proceedings of the 10th Machine Translation Summit(pp.
165 ?
172).
Phuket, Thailand.Nordg	ard, T., Nygaard, L., L?nning, J. T., & Oepen, S.(2006).
Using a bi-lingual dictionary in lexical transfer.
InProceedings of the 11th conference of the European Asoo-ciation of Machine Translation.
Oslo, Norway.Oepen, S., Dyvik, H., L?nning, J. T., Velldal, E., Beermann,D., Carroll, J., Flickinger, D., Hellan, L., Johannessen,J.
B., Meurer, P., Nordg	ard, T., & Ros?en, V. (2004).
Soma kapp-ete med trollet?
Towards MRS-based Norwegian ?English Machine Translation.
In Proceedings of the 10thInternational Conference on Theoretical and Methodolog-ical Issues in Machine Translation.
Baltimore, MD.Oepen, S., Flickinger, D., Toutanova, K., & Manning, C. D.(2004).
LinGO Redwoods.
A rich and dynamic treebankfor HPSG.
Journal of Research on Language and Compu-tation, 2(4), 575 ?
596.Oepen, S., & L?nning, J. T. (2006).
Discriminant-based MRSbanking.
In Proceedings of the 5th International Con-ference on Language Resources and Evaluation.
Genoa,Italy.Riezler, S., King, T. H., Kaplan, R. M., Crouch, R., Maxwell,J.
T., & Johnson, M. (2002).
Parsing the Wall StreetJournal using a Lexical-Functional Grammar and discrim-inative estimation techniques.
In Proceedings of the 40thMeeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics.Philadelphia, PA.Ros?en, V., Smedt, K. D., Dyvik, H., & Meurer, P. (2005).TrePil.
Developing methods and tools for multilevel tree-bank construction.
In Proceedings of the 4th Workshopon Treebanks and Linguistic Theories (pp.
161 ?
172).Barcelona, Spain.Velldal, E., & Oepen, S. (2005).
Maximum entropy modelsfor realization ranking.
In Proceedings of the 10th Ma-chine Translation Summit (pp.
109 ?
116).
Phuket, Thai-land.Wahlster, W.
(Ed.).
(2000).
Verbmobil.
Foundations ofspeech-to-speech translation.
Berlin, Germany: Springer.56
