Proceedings of the ACL 2007 Demo and Poster Sessions, pages 21?24,Prague, June 2007. c?2007 Association for Computational LinguisticsMultilingual Ontological Analysis of European DirectivesGianmaria AjaniDipartimento di Scienze GiuridicheUniversita` di Torino - Italygianmaria.ajani@unito.itGuido BoellaLeonardo LesmoAlessandro MazzeiDipartimento di InformaticaUniversita` di Torino - Italy[guido|lesmo|mazzei]@di.unito.itPiercarlo RossiDipartimento di Studi per l?Impresa e il TerritorioUniversita` del Piemonte Orientale - Italypiercarlo.rossi@eco.unipmn.itAbstractThis paper describes the main features of ourtool called ?Legal Taxonomy Syllabus?.
Thesystem is an ontology based tool designed toannotate and recover multi-lingua legal in-formation and build conceptual dictionarieson European Directives.1 IntroductionThe European union each year produces a largenumber of Union Directives (EUD), which are trans-lated into each of the communitary languages.
TheEUD are sets of norms that have to be implementedby the national legislations.
The problem of multi-linguism in European legislation has recently beenaddressed by using linguistic and ontological tools,e.g.
(Boer et al, 2003; Giguet and P.S., 2006; De-spre?s and Szulman, 2006).
The management ofEUD is particularly complex since the implementa-tion of a EUD however not correspond to the straighttransposition into a national law.
An EUD is subjectto further interpretation, and this process can lead tounexpected results.
Comparative Law has studied indetails the problematics concerning EUD and theircomplexities.
On the other hand managing with ap-propriate tools this kind of complexity can facilitatethe comparison and harmonization of national legis-lation (Boer et al, 2003).
Based on this research, inthis paper, we describe the tool for building multilin-gual conceptual dictionaries we developed for repre-senting an analysing the terminology and conceptsused in EUD.The main assumptions of our methodology, mo-tivated by studies in comparative law (Rossi andVogel, 2004) and ontologies engineering (Klein,2001), are the following ones: 1) Terms and con-cepts must be distinguished; for this purpose, weuse lightweight ontologies, i.e.
simple taxonomicstructures of primitive or composite terms togetherwith associated definitions.
They are hardly axiom-atized as the intended meaning of the terms used bythe community is more or less known in advanceby all members, and the ontology can be limited tothose structural relationships among terms that areconsidered as relevant (Oberle, 2005)1.
2) We dis-tinguish the ontology implicitly defined by EUD,the EU level, from the various national ontologies,the national level.
Furthermore, each national leg-islation refers to a distinct national legal ontology.We do not assume that the transposition of an EUDintroduces automatically in a national ontology thesame concepts present at the EU level.
3) Corre-sponding concepts at the EU level and at the nationallevel can be denoted by different terms in the samenational language.In this paper, we show how the Legal Taxon-omy Syllabus (LTS) is used to build a dictionaryof consumer law, to support the Uniform Terminol-ogy Project2 (Rossi and Vogel, 2004).
The struc-ture of this paper is the following one.
In Section 2we stress two main problems which comparative lawhas raised concerning EUD and their transpositions.In Section 3 we describe how the methodology ofthe LTS allows to cope with these problems and fi-nally in Section 4we give some conclusions.1See http://cos.ontoware.org/2http://www.uniformterminology.unito.it212 Terminological and conceptualmisalignmentComparative law has identified two key points indealing with EUD, which makes more difficult deal-ing with the polysemy of legal terms: we call themthe terminological and conceptual misalignments.In the case of EUD (usually adopted for harmon-ising the laws of the Member States), the termino-logical matter is complicated by their necessity tobe implemented by the national legislations.
In or-der to have a precise transposition in a national law,a Directive may be subject to further interpretation.Thus, a same legal concept can be expressed in dif-ferent ways in a Directive and in its implementingnational law.
The same legal concept in some lan-guage can be expressed in a different way in a EUDand in the national law implementing it.
As a con-sequence we have a terminological misalignment.For example, the concept corresponding to the wordreasonably in English, is translated into Italian asragionevolmente in the EUD, and as con ordinariadiligenza into the transposition law.In the EUD transposition laws a further problemarises from the different national legal doctrines.A legal concept expressed in an EUD may not bepresent in a national legal system.
In this case wecan talk about a conceptual misalignment.
To makesense for the national lawyers?
expectancies, the Eu-ropean legal terms have not only to be translatedinto a sound national terminology, but they need tobe correctly detected when their meanings are to re-fer to EU legal concepts or when their meanings aresimilar to concepts which are known in the Memberstates.
Consequently, the transposition of Europeanlaw in the parochial legal framework of each Mem-ber state can lead to a set of distinct national legaldoctrines, that are all different from the Europeanone.
In case of consumer contracts (like those con-cluded by the means of distance communication asin Directive 97/7/EC, Art.
4.2), the notion to pro-vide in a clear and comprehensible manner some el-ements of the contract by the professionals to theconsumers represents a specification of the informa-tion duties which are a pivotal principle of EU law.Despite the pairs of translation in the language ver-sions of EU Directives (i.e., klar und versta?ndlichin German - clear and comprehensible in English -chiaro e comprensibile in Italian), each legal term,when transposed in the national legal orders, is in-fluenced by the conceptual filters of the lawyers?domestic legal thinking.
So, klar und versta?ndlichin the German system is considered by the Germancommentators referring to three different legal con-cepts: 1) the print or the writing of the informa-tion must be clear and legible (gestaltung der infor-mation), 2) the information must be intelligible bythe consumer (formulierung der information), 3) thelanguage of the information must be the national ofconsumer (sprache der information).
In Italy, thejudiciary tend to control more the formal features ofthe concepts 1 and 3, and less concept 2, while inEngland the main role has been played by the con-cept 2, though considered as plain style of language(not legal technical jargon) thanks to the historicalinfluences of plain English movement in that coun-try.Note that this kind of problems identified in com-parative law has a direct correspondence in the on-tology theory.
In particular Klein (Klein, 2001) hasremarked that two particular forms of ontology mis-match are terminological and conceptualization on-tological mismatch which straightforwardly corre-spond to our definitions of misalignments.3 The methodology of the Legal TaxonomySyllabusA standard way to properly manage large multilin-gual lexical databases is to do a clear distinctionamong terms and their interlingual acceptions (oraxies) (Se?rasset, 1994; Lyding et al, 2006).
Inour system to properly manage terminological andconceptual misalignment we distinguish in the LTSproject the notion of legal term from the notion oflegal concept and we build a systematic classifica-tion based on this distinction.
The basic idea inour system is that the conceptual backbone consistsin a taxonomy of concepts (ontology) to which theterms can refer to express their meaning.
One ofthe main points to keep in mind is that we do notassume the existence of a single taxonomy cover-ing all languages.
In fact, it has been convincinglyargued that the different national systems may orga-nize the concepts in different ways.
For instance,the term contract corresponds to different concepts22EU ontology Italian ontology German ontologyTerm-Ita-A Term-Ger-AEU-1Ita-2Ger-3Ger-5Ita-4Figure 1: Relationship between ontologies andterms.
The thick arcs represent the inter-ontology?association?
link.in common law and civil law, where it has the mean-ing of bargain and agreement, respectively (Sacco,1999).
In most complex instances, there are nohomologous between terms-concepts such as fruttocivile (legal fruit) and income, but respectively civillaw and common law systems can achieve function-ally same operational rules thanks to the function-ing of the entire taxonomy of national legal concepts(Graziadei, 2004).
Consequently, the LTS includesdifferent ontologies, one for each involved nationallanguage plus one for the language of EU docu-ments.
Each language-specific ontology is relatedvia a set of association links to the EU concepts, asshown in Fig.
1.Although this picture is conform to intuition, inLTS it had to be enhanced in two directions.
First,it must be observed that the various national ontolo-gies have a reference language.
This is not the casefor the EU ontology.
For instance, a given term inEnglish could refer either to a concept in the UK on-tology or to a concept in the EU ontology.
In thefirst case, the term is used for referring to a conceptin the national UK legal system, whilst in the secondone, it is used to refer to a concept used in the Euro-pean directives.
This is one of the main advantagesof LTS.
For example klar und versta?ndlich could re-fer both to concept Ger-379 (a concept in the Ger-man Ontology) and to concept EU-882 (a conceptin the European ontology).
This is the LTS solutionfor facing the possibility of a correspondence onlypartial between the meaning of a term has in the na-tional system and the meaning of the same term inthe translation of a EU directive.
This feature en-ables the LTS to be more precise about what ?trans-lation?
means.
It puts at disposal a way for assertingthat two terms are the translation of each other, butjust in case those terms have been used in the trans-lation of an EU directive: within LTS, we can talkabout direct EU-translations of terms, but only aboutindirect national-system translations of terms.
Thesituation enforced in LTS is depicted in Fig.
1, whereit is represented that: The Italian term Term-Ita-Aand the German term Term-Ger-A have been used ascorresponding terms in the translation of an EU di-rective, as shown by the fact that both of them referto the same EU-concept EU-1.
In the Italian legalsystem, Term-Ita-A has the meaning Ita-2.
In theGerman legal system, Term-Ger-A has the meaningGer-3.
The EU translations of the directive is cor-rect insofar no terms exist in Italian and German thatcharacterize precisely the concept EU-1 in the twolanguages (i.e., the ?associated?
concepts Ita-4and Ger-5 have no corresponding legal terms).
Apractical example of such a situation is reported inFig.
2, where we can see that the ontologies includedifferent types of arcs.
Beyond the usual is-a (link-ing a category to its supercategory), there are alsoa purpose arc, which relates a concept to the legalprinciple motivating it, and concerns, which refersto a general relatedness.
The dotted arcs representthe reference from terms to concepts.
Some termshave links both to a National ontology and to the EUOntology (in particular, withdrawal vs. recesso anddifesa del consumatore vs. consumer protection).The last item above is especially relevant: notethat this configuration of arcs specifies that: 1) with-drawal and recesso have been used as equivalentterms (concept EU-2) in some European Directives(e.g., Directive 90/314/EEC).
2) In that context, theterm involved an act having as purpose the somekind of protection of the consumer.
3) The termsused for referring to the latter are consumer protec-tion in English and difesa del consumatore in Ital-ian.
4) In the British legal system, however, notall withdrawals have this goal, but only a subtypeof them, to which the code refers to as cancellation(concept Eng-3).
5) In the Italian legal system, theterm diritto di recesso is ambiguous, since it can beused with reference either to something concerning23Figure 2: An example of interconnections amongterms.the risoluzione (concept Ita-4), or to somethingconcerning the recesso proper (concept Ita-3).Finally, it is possible to use the LTS to translateterms into different national systems via the con-cepts which they are transposition of at the Europeanlevel.
For instance suppose that we want to trans-late the legal term credito al consumo from Italianto German.
In the LTS credito al consumo is asso-ciated to the national umeaning Ita-175.
We findthat Ita-175 is the transposition of the Europeanumeaning EU-26 (contratto di credito).
EU-26 isassociated to the German legal term Kreditvertragat European level.
Again, we find that the nationalGerman transposition of EU-26 corresponds to thenational umeaning Ger-32 that is associated withthe national legal term Darlehensvertrag.
Then, byusing the European ontology, we can translate theItalian legal term credito al consumo into the Ger-man legal term Darlehensvertrag.4 ConclusionsIn this paper we discuss some features of the LTS, atool for building multilingual conceptual dictionar-ies for the EU law.
The tool is based on lightweightontologies to allow a distinction of concepts fromterms.
Distinct ontologies are built at the EU leveland for each national language, to deal with poly-semy and terminological and conceptual misalign-ment.Many attempts have been done to use ontologyin legal field, e.g.
(Casanovas et al, 2005; De-spre?s and Szulman, 2006) and LOIS project (that isbased on EuroWordNet project (Vossen et al, 1999),http://www.loisproject.org), but to ourknowledge the LTS is the first attempt which startsfrom fine grained legal expertise on the EUD do-main.Future work is to study how the LTS can be usedas a thesaurus for general EUD, even if the currentdomain is limited to consumer law.ReferencesA.
Boer, T.M.
van Engers, and R. Winkels.
2003.
Usingontologies for comparing and harmonizing legislation.In ICAIL, pages 60?69.P.
Casanovas, N. Casellas, C. Tempich, D. Vrandecic, andR.
Benjamins.
2005.
OPJK modeling methodology.In Proceedings of the ICAIL Workshop: LOAIT 2005.S.
Despre?s and S. Szulman.
2006.
Merging of legalmicro-ontologies from european directives.
ArtificialIntelligence and Law, ??:?????
In press.E.
Giguet and P.S.
2006.
Multilingual lexical databasegeneration from parallel texts in 20 european lan-guages with endogenous resources.
In Proceedings ofthe COLING/ACL 2006 Main Conference Poster Ses-sions, pages 271?278, July.M.
Graziadei.
2004.
Tuttifrutti.
In P. Birks and A. Pretto,editors, Themes in Comparative Law, pages ?.
OxfordUniversity Press.M.
Klein.
2001.
Combining and relating ontologies: ananalysis of problems and solutions.
In Workshop onOntologies and Information Sharing, IJCAI?01, Seat-tle, USA.V.
Lyding, Elena Chiocchetti, G. Se?rasset, and F. Brunet-Manquat.
2006.
The LexALP information system:Term bank and corpus for multilingual legal termi-nology consolidated.
In Proc.
of the Wokshop onMultilingual Language Resources and Interoperabil-ity, ACL06, pages 25?31.D.
Oberle, editor.
2005.
Semantic Management of Mid-dleware.
Springer Science+Business and Media.P.
Rossi and C. Vogel.
2004.
Terms and concepts; to-wards a syllabus for european private law.
EuropeanReview of Private Law (ERPL), 12(2):293?300.R.
Sacco.
1999.
Contract.
European Review of PrivateLaw, 2:237?240.G.
Se?rasset.
1994.
Interlingual lexical organization formultilingual lexical databases in NADIA.
In Proc.COLING94, pages 278?282.P.
Vossen, W. Peters, and J. Gonzalo.
1999.
Towards auniversal index of meaning.
In Proc.
ACL-99 SiglexWorkshop.24
