Proceedings of the ACL 2007 Demo and Poster Sessions, pages 109?112,Prague, June 2007. c?2007 Association for Computational LinguisticsOn the formalization of Invariant Mappings for Metaphor InterpretationRodrigo Agerri, John Barnden, Mark Lee and Alan WallingtonSchool of Computer Science, Univ.
of BirminghamB15 2TT Birmingham, UKr.agerri@cs.bham.ac.ukAbstractIn this paper we provide a formalization ofa set of default rules that we claim are re-quired for the transfer of information suchas causation, event rate and duration in theinterpretation of metaphor.
Such rules aredomain-independent and are identified as in-variant adjuncts to any conceptual metaphor.We also show a way of embedding the in-variant mappings in a semantic framework.1 IntroductionIt is generally accepted that much of everyday lan-guage shows evidence of metaphor.
We assume thegeneral view that metaphor understanding involvessome notion of events, properties, relations, etc.
thatare transferred from the source domain into the tar-get domain.
In this view, a metaphorical utteranceconveys information about the target domain.
Weare particularly interested in the metaphorical utter-ances that we call map-transcending.
Consider thefollowing example:(1) ?McEnroe starved Connors to death.
?We do not address in this paper the issue ofwhen an utterance is to be considered metaphor-ical.
Instead, we aim to offer an explanation ofhow a metaphorical utterance such as (1) can be in-terpreted.
If we infer, using our knowledge aboutMcEnroe and Connors, that (1) is used to describea tennis match, it can be understood as an exam-ple of the conceptual metaphors (or, in our termi-nology, ?metaphorical views?)
DEFEAT AS DEATHand NECESSITIES AS FOOD.
However, thesemetaphorical views would not contain any relation-ship that maps the specific manner of dying that con-stitutes being starved to death (we say that ?starv-ing?
is a map-transcending entity).
Yet one couldargue that the manner of Connors?s death is a cru-cial part of the informational contribution of (1).A possible solution would be to create a newview-specific mapping that goes from the form ofkilling involved in starving to death to some processin sport, but such enrichment of mappings would beneeded for many other verbs or verbal phrases thatrefer to other ways in which death is brought about,each requiring a specific specific mapping when oc-curring in a metaphorical utterance.
Thus, findingadequate mappings could become an endless andcomputational intensive process.
Moreover, thereare even cases in which we may not find a plausi-ble mapping.
Consider the following description ofthe progress of a love affair:(2) ?We?re spinning our wheels.
?It is not very clear what could be a target corre-spondent for ?wheels?.
We have developed an AIsystem called ATT-Meta for metaphor interpretation(Barnden et al, 2002) that employs reasoning withinthe terms of the source domain using various sourcesof information including world and linguistic knowl-edge.
The reasoning connects unmapped ideas usedby utterances, such as wheels and starving, to othersource-domain ideas for which a mapping is alreadyknown.
These known mappings may be constituentsof particular metaphorical view, but previous work(Barnden et al, 2003; Wallington et al, 2006) has109shown evidence that there are metaphorical aspects(such as causal relations between events) that, sub-ject to being called, invariantly map from source totarget (we call these mappings View-Neutral Map-ping Adjuncts or VNMAs) irrespective of whateverspecific metaphorical views are in play.
These allowmany mapping effects, which would otherwise haveto be duplicated across all view-specific mappings,to be factored out into separate mappings.
In ourapproach, source domain reasoning takes place in aspecial, protected computational context that we callthe ?pretence space?.
We use the term ?reality?
torefer to the space outside the pretence where propo-sitions are about reality as the understander sees it.Currently ATT-Meta implements the VNMAs byincluding them in view-specific rules, but we plan tomake the system more modular and its view-specificmappings more economical by implementing VN-MAs as separate default rules.
The first step to-wards that goal is to provide a formalization of thesemappings and to show their role in metaphor in-terpretation.
In order to do so, we provide a se-mantic representation of how these VNMAs workby adopting Segmented Discourse RepresentationTheory (Asher and Lascarides, 2003) to capture themain aspects of the ATT-Meta approach.2 Knowledge and InferenceIf (1) is being used metaphorically to describe theresult of a tennis match, a plausible target interpre-tation would be that McEnroe defeated Connors in aslow manner by performing some actions to deprivehim of his usual playing style.
Assuming a com-monsensical view of the world, a within-pretencemeaning would be that McEnroe starved Connors todeath in the real, biological sense.
The inferencingwithin the pretence can then conclude that McEnroecaused Connors?s death by depriving or disablinghim.
Leaving some details aside, the partial logicalform (in the pretence) of the metaphorical utterance(1) may be represented as follows (without takinginto account temporal issues):(i) ?x, y, e(McEnroe(x) ?
Connors(y)?starve?
to?
death(e, x, y))This says that there is an event e of x starving y todeath (we also use the notion of event to describe sit-uations, processes, states, etc.).
It may be suggestedthat if we were trying to map the partial expression(i), its correspondent proposition in the target couldbe expressed by this formula:(ii) ?x, y, e(McEnroe(x) ?
Connors(y)?defeat(e, x, y))According to this, the event of x defeating y inthe reality would correspond to the event of x starv-ing y to death in the pretence.
However, by say-ing ?McEnroe starved Connors to death?
instead ofsimply ?McEnroe killed Connors?
the speaker is notmerely intending to convey that McEnroe defeatedConnors, but rather something related to the man-ner in which Connors was defeated.
Following this,starving may be decomposed into the cause e1 andits effect, namely, ?being deprived of food?
:(iii) ?x, y, z, e1, e2, e3(McEnroe(x)?Connors(y) ?
food(z) ?
starve(e1, x, y) ?death(e2, y) ?
deprived(e3, y, z)?cause(e1, e3))Now, by means of lexical information regarding?starving?, it can be inferred that McEnroe deprivedConnors of a necessity (see, e.g., Wordnet), namely,of the food required for his normal functioning (theNECESSITIES AS FOOD metaphorical view wouldprovide mappings to transfer food to the type ofshots that Connors needs to play his normal game).In other words, Connors is defeated by the partic-ular means of depriving him of a necessity (food)which means that being deprived causes Connors?sdefeat.
This fits well with the interpretation of (1)where McEnroe?s playing deprived Connors of hisusual game.
Moreover, linguistic knowledge alsoprovides the fact that starving someone to death is agradual, slow process.
The result of within-pretenceinferencing may be represented as follows:(iv) ?x, y, z, e1, e2, e3(McEnroe(x)?Connors(y) ?
food(z) ?
starve(e1, x, y) ?death(e2, y) ?
deprived(e3, y, z)?cause(e1, e3)?cause(e3, e2)?rate(e1, slow))?Slow?
refers to a commonsensical concept in thepretence related to the progress rate of starving.Now, the existing mapping DEFEAT AS DEATHcan be applied to derive, outside the pretence, thatMcEnroe defeated Connors, but no correspondences110are available to account for the fact that McEnroecaused the defeat of Connors by depriving him ofhis normal play.
We appear to have a problem alsoto map the slow progress rate of a process like starv-ing.3 VNMAs in a Semantic FrameworkIn the ATT-Meta approach to metaphor interpreta-tion, the mappings of caused and rate discussedabove are accomplished by a type of default map-pings that we specify as VNMAs (the Causationand Rate VNMAs, respectively; see (Wallington andBarnden, 2006) for an informal but detailed de-scription of a number of VNMAs).
The idea isthat there are relationships and properties (causation,rate, etc.)
between two events or entities that iden-tically transfer from the pretence to the reality.
Weuse the 7?
symbol to express that this mapping is adefault.
The VNMAs involved in the interpretationof (1) can be represented as follows:Causation: ?e1, e2(cause(e1, e2)pret 7?cause(e1, e2)rlt)The Rate VNMA transfers the qualitative rate ofprogress of events in the source domain to the qual-itative rate of progress of its mappee:Rate: ?e, r(rate(e, r)pret 7?
rate(e, r)rlt)Embedding the VNMAs in a semantic frameworkfor metaphor interpretation is useful as a first steptowards their implementation as default rules in theATT-Meta system, but it is also interesting in itsown right to show the contribution that the ATT-Meta approach can make towards the semantics ofmetaphor.
In the somewhat simplified discussionon the within-pretence reasoning and mappings nec-essary to interpret metaphorical utterances such as(1), we have been using various sources of informa-tion that interact in the processing of the utterance:a) View-specific mappings provided by the relevantmetaphorical views (DEFEAT AS DEATH and NE-CESSITIES AS FOOD); b) Linguistic and contex-tual information necessary for reasoning in the pre-tence; c) Relations and properties between eventssuch as causation and rate that are inferred in thepretence; d) VNMAs that transfer within-pretenceevent relations and properties to reality.There are two prominent computationally-oriented semantic approaches (Hobbs, 1996) and(Asher and Lascarides, 2003) that take into accountcontextual and linguistic information and stress theimportance of relations between text segments indiscourse interpretation.
In fact, the incorporationof the above types of information ties in well withthe SDRT (Asher and Lascarides, 2003) view oflanguage understanding.
For example, we can thinkof the pretence space as a Segmented DiscourseRepresentation Structure (SDRS) representing theresult of within-pretence inference which can bemapped by using various view-specific and invariantmappings to reality.
In other words, we can see thepretence SDRS as the input for what the ATT-Metasystem does when interpreting metaphor ?
it willreason with it, producing an output of inferredreality facts which we may also represent by meansof an SDRS.
The result of reasoning in the pretenceto interpret (1) would now looks as follows:PRET:?, ?, ??
:x, y, e1McEnroe(x)Connors(y)starve(e1, x, y)?
:e2death(e2, y)?
:e3 ,zfood(z)deprived(e3, y, z)cause(e1, e3)cause(e3 ,e2)rate(e1 ,slow)7?
?where ?
and ?
are labels for DRSs representingevents, PRET for a pretence space and 7??
map-pings (VNMAs and central mappings) needed in theinterpretation of the metaphorical utterance.
Impor-tantly, the VNMAs would pick upon aspects suchas causation and rate from pretence to transfer themto reality producing an output which could also berepresented as a SDRS:RLT:?, ?, ??
:x, y, e1McEnroe(x)Connors(y)tennis-play(e1, x, y)?
:e2defeat(e2, y)?
:e3 ,znecessity(z)deprived(e3, y, z)cause(e1, e3)cause(e3,e2)rate(e1 ,slow)Note that this formal representation integrates thesystematicity of mapping invariantly certain aspectsof metaphorical utterances by formulating them asrelations between events that can be represented as111relations and properties of DRSs.
For this purposewe need to modify the construction rules of SDRSsto be able to infer properties and relations involvingindividuals and not only DRSs?
labels.
In additionto this, we have shown in the previous section howATT-Meta source domain reasoning captures the in-teraction of the various sources of knowledge usedto infer causation and rate in the pretence.
Further-more, studying the interaction between VNMAs anddiscourse relations may allow us to extend the studyof metaphor to discourse.4 Concluding RemarksFollowing the ATT-Meta claim metaphors often con-vey crucial information via VNMAs, we can re-analyze example (1) so that the effects of the NE-CESSITIES AS FOOD mapping are obtained byVNMAs.
In the pretence, the food is somethingConnors needs for proper functioning: i.e., it is nec-essary that Connors have the food in order to func-tion properly.
The necessity here is covered by theModality VNMA, which maps relative degrees ofnecessity, possibility, obligation, etc., from pretenceto reality.
Moreover, the functioning properly wouldbe covered by the Function and Value-Judgement(levels of goodness, importance, etc.
map identi-cally to levels of goodness, etc.).
So all that is left isthe possession which could be covered by a STATEAS POSSESSION mapping.Formal semantic approaches (Asher and Las-carides, 2003) do not account for metaphorical ut-terances including map-transcending entities.
Otherworks (Carbonell, 1982; Hobbs, 1990; Martin,1990; Narayanan, 1997) have addressed source do-main reasoning to a limited extent, but its role inmetaphor interpretation has not previously been ad-equately investigated.
Moreover, map-transcendingentities pose a problem for analogy-based ap-proaches to metaphor interpretation (Falkenhaineret al, 1989), which require the discovery of anelaborate structural similarity between the sourceand target domains and/or the imposition of un-mapped source domain structures on the target do-main, whereas part of our approach is that the un-mapped source domain structure introduced by theutterance is by default not carried over.Acknowledgements Supported by EPSRCEP/C538943/1 and GR/M64208 grants.ReferencesNicholas Asher and Alex Lascarides.
2001.
The seman-tics and pragmatics of metaphor.
In P. Bouillon and F.Busa, editors, The Language of Word Meaning, pages262?289.
Cambridge University Press.Nicholas Asher and Alex Lascarides.
2003.
Logics ofConversation.
Cambridge University Press.John Barnden, Sheila Glasbey, Mark Lee, and AlanWallington.
2002.
Reasoning in metaphor under-standing: The att-meta approach and system.
In 19thConference on Computational Linguistics (COLING-2002).John Barnden, Sheila Glasbey, Mark Lee, andAlan Wallington.
2003.
Domain-transcendingmappings in a system for metaphorical reasoning.In Conference Companion to the 10th Conferenceof the European Chapter of the Association forComputational Linguistics (EACL 2003), pages57?61.Jaime Carbonell.
1982.
Metaphor: An inescapablephenomenon in natural-language comprehension.
InW.
Lehnert and M. Ringle, editors, Strategies for Nat-ural Language Processing, pages 415?434.
LawrenceErlbaum, Hillsdale, NJ.BrianFalkenhainer, Kenneth Forbus, and Dedre Gentner.1989.
The structure-mapping engine: algorithm andexamples.
Artificial Intelligence, 41(1):1?63.Jerry Hobbs.
1990.
Literature and Cognition.
CSLI,Lecture Notes, Stanford.Jerry Hobbs.
1996.
An approach to the structure of dis-course.
In D. Everett, editor, Discourse: Linguistic,Computational and Philosophical Perspectives.James Martin.
1990.
A computational model ofmetaphor interpretation.
Academic Press, New York.Srini Narayanan.
1997.
KARMA: Knowledge-based ac-tion representations for metaphor and aspect.
Ph.D.thesis, Computer Science Division, EECS Depart-ment, University of California, Berkeley, August.Alan Wallington and John Barnden.
2006.
Similarity asa basis for metaphor: Invariant transfer and the roleof VNMAs.
Technical Report CSRP-06-02, School ofComputer Science, Univ.
of Birmingham, December.Alan Wallington, John Barnden, Sheila Glasbey, andMark Lee.
2006.
Metaphorical reasoning with an eco-nomical set of mappings.
Delta, 22(1).112
