Proceedings of the ACL 2007 Demo and Poster Sessions, pages 185?188,Prague, June 2007. c?2007 Association for Computational LinguisticsExtractive Summarization Based on Event Term ClusteringMaofu Liu1,2, Wenjie Li1, Mingli Wu1 and Qin Lu11Department of ComputingThe Hong Kong Polytechnic University{csmfliu, cswjli, csmlwu,csluqin}@comp.polyu.edu.hk2College of Computer Science and TechnologyWuhan University of Science and Technologymfliu_china@hotmail.comAbstractEvent-based summarization extracts andorganizes summary sentences in terms ofthe events that the sentences describe.
Inthis work, we focus on semantic relationsamong event terms.
By connecting termswith relations, we build up event termgraph, upon which relevant terms aregrouped into clusters.
We assume that eachcluster represents a topic of documents.Then two summarization strategies areinvestigated, i.e.
selecting one term as therepresentative of each topic so as to coverall the topics, or selecting all terms in onemost significant topic so as to highlight therelevant information related to this topic.The selected terms are then responsible topick out the most appropriate sentencesdescribing them.
The evaluation ofclustering-based summarization on DUC2001 document sets shows encouragingimprovement over the well-knownPageRank-based summarization.1 IntroductionEvent-based extractive summarization has emergedrecently (Filatova and Hatzivassiloglou, 2004).
Itextracts and organizes summary sentences in termsof the events that sentences describe.We follow the common agreement that eventcan be formulated as ?
[Who] did [What] to [Whom][When] and [Where]?
and ?did [What]?
denotesthe key element of an event, i.e.
the action withinthe formulation.
We approximately define theverbs and action nouns as the event terms whichcan characterize or partially characterize the eventoccurrences.Most existing event-based summarizationapproaches rely on the statistical features derivedfrom documents and generally associated withsingle events, but they neglect the relations amongevents.
However, events are commonly relatedwith one another especially when the documents tobe summarized are about the same or very similartopics.
Li et al(2006) report that the improvedperformance can be achieved by taking intoaccount of event distributional similarities, but itdoes not benefit much from semantic similarities.This motivated us to further investigate whetherevent-based summarization can take advantage ofthe semantic relations of event terms, and mostimportantly, how to make use of those relations.Our idea is grouping the terms connected by therelations into the clusters, which are assumed torepresent some topics described in documents.In the past, various clustering approaches havebeen investigated in document summarization.Hatzivassiloglou et al(2001) apply clusteringmethod to organize the highly similar paragraphsinto tight clusters based on primitive or compositefeatures.
Then one paragraph per cluster is selectedto form the summary by extraction or byreformulation.
Zha (2002) uses spectral graphclustering algorithm to partition sentences intotopical groups.
Within each cluster, the saliencyscores of terms and sentences are calculated usingmutual reinforcement principal, which assigns highsalience scores to the sentences that contain manyterms with high salience scores.
The sentences andkey phrases are selected by their saliency scores togenerate the summary.
The similar work based ontopic or event is also reported in (Guo and Stylios,2005).The granularity of clustering units mentionedabove is rather coarse, either sentence or paragraph.In this paper, we define event term as clustering185unit and implement a clustering algorithm based onsemantic relations.
We extract event terms fromdocuments and construct the event term graph bylinking terms with the relations.
We then regard agroup of closely related terms as a topic and makethe following two alterative assumptions:(1) If we could find the most significant topic asthe main topic of documents and select all terms init, we could summarize the documents with thismain topic.
(2) If we could find all topics and pick out oneterm as the representative of each topic, we couldobtain the condensed version of topics described inthe documents.Based on these two assumptions, a set of clusterranking, term selection and ranking and sentenceextraction strategies are developed.
The remainderof this paper is organized as follows.
Section 2introduces the proposed extractive summarizationapproach based on event term clustering.
Section 3presents experiments and evaluations.
Finally,Section 4 concludes the paper.2 Summarization Based on Event TermClustering2.1 Event Term GraphWe introduce VerbOcean (Chklovski and Pantel,2004), a broad-coverage repository of semanticverb relations, into event-based summarization.Different from other thesaurus like WordNet,VerbOcean provides five types of semantic verbrelations at finer level.
This just fits in with ouridea to introduce event term relations intosummarization.
Currently, only the stronger-thanrelation is explored.
When two verbs are similar,one may denote a more intense, thorough,comprehensive or absolute action.
In the case ofchange-of-state verbs, one may denote a morecomplete change.
This is identified as the stronger-than relation in (Timothy and Patrick, 2004).
Inthis paper, only stronger-than is taken into accountbut we consider extending our future work withother applicable relations types.The event term graph connected by termsemantic relations is defined formally as, where V is a set of event terms and Eis a set of relation links connecting the event termsin V. The graph is directed if the semantic relationhas the characteristic of the asymmetric.
Otherwise,it is undirected.
Figure 1 shows a sample of eventterm graph built from one DUC 2001 document set.It is a directed graph as the stronger-than relationin VerbOcean exhibits the conspicuous asymmetriccharacteristic.
For example, ?fight?
means toattempt to harm by blows or with weapons, while?resist?
means to keep from giving in.
Therefore, adirected link from ?fight?
to ?resist?
is shown inthe following Figure 1.
),( EVG =Relations link terms together and form the eventterm graph.
Based upon it, term significance isevaluated and in turn sentence is judged whether tobe extracted in the summary.Figure 1.
Terms connected by semantic relations2.2 Event Term ClusteringNote that in Figure 1, some linked event terms,such as ?kill?, ?rob?, ?threaten?
and ?infect?, aresemantically closely related.
They may describethe same or similar topic somehow.
In contrast,?toler?, ?resist?
and ?fight?
are clearly involved inanother topic; although they are also reachablefrom ?kill?.
Based on this observation, a clusteringalgorithm is required to group the similar andrelated event terms into the cluster of the topic.In this work, event terms are clustered by theDBSCAN, a density-based clustering algorithmproposed in (Easter et al 1996).
The key ideabehind it is that for each term of a cluster theneighborhood of a given radius has to contain atleast a minimum number of terms, i.e.
the densityin the neighborhood has to exceed some threshold.By using this algorithm, we need to figure outappropriate values for two basic parameters,namely, Eps (denoting the searching radius fromeach term) and MinPts (denoting the minimumnumber of terms in the neighborhood of the term).We assign one semantic relation step to Eps sincethere is no clear distance concept in the event term186graph.
The value of Eps is experimentally set inour experiments.
We also make some modificationon Easter?s DBSCAN in order to accommodate toour task.Figure 2 shows the seven term clustersgenerated by the modified DBSCAN clusteringalgorithm from the graph in Figure 1.
We representeach cluster by the starting event term in bold font.fightresistconsiderexpectannounceofferlist publicaccepthonorpublish studyfoundplacepreparetolerpassfearthreatenkillfeel sufferlivesurviveundergoambushrobinfectendurerunmoverushreportinvestigatefilesatisfypleasemanageacceptFigure 2.
Term clusters generated from Figure 12.3 Cluster RankingThe significance of the cluster is calculated by?
???
?
?=CC CttCttii iiddCsc /)(where  is the degree of the term t  in the termgraph.
C  is the set of term clusters obtained by themodified DBSCAN clustering algorithm and  isthe ith one.
Obviously, the significance of thecluster is calculated from global point of view, i.e.the sum of the degree of all terms in the samecluster is divided by the total degree of the terms inall clusters.tdiC2.4 Term Selection  and RankingRepresentative terms are selected according to thesignificance of the event terms calculated withineach cluster (i.e.
from local point of view) or in allclusters (i.e.
from global point of view) byLOCAL:  or ?
?=icttt ddtst /)(GLOBAL:  ?
??
?=Cc cttti iddtst /)(Then two strategies are developed to select therepresentative terms from the clusters.
(1) One Cluster All Terms (OCAT) selects allterms within the first rank cluster.
The selectedterms are then ranked according to theirsignificance.
(2) One Term All Cluster (OTAC) selects onemost significant term from each cluster.
Notice thatbecause terms compete with each other withinclusters, it is not surprising to see )()( 21 tsttst <even when , .
Toaddress this problem, the representative terms areranked according to the significance of the clustersthey belong to.
)()( 21 csccsc > ),( 2211 ctct ?
?2.5 Sentence Evaluation and ExtractionA representative event term may associate to morethan one sentence.
We extract only one of them asthe description of the event.
To this end, sentencesare compared according to the significance of theterms in them.
MAX compares the maximumsignificance scores, while SUM compares the sumof the significance scores.
The sentence with eitherhigher MAX or SUM wins the competition and ispicked up as a candidate summary sentence.
If thesentence in the first place has been selected byanother term, the one in the second place is chosen.The ranks of these candidates are the same as theranks of the terms they are selected for.
Finally,candidate sentences are selected in the summaryuntil the length limitation is reached.3 ExperimentsWe evaluate the proposed approaches on DUC2001 corpus which contains 30 English documentsets.
There are 431 event terms on average in eachdocument set.
The automatic evaluation tool,ROUGE (Lin and Hovy, 2003), is run to evaluatethe quality of the generated summaries (200 wordsin length).
The tool presents three values includingunigram-based ROUGE-1, bigram-based ROUGE-2 and ROUGE-W which is based on longestcommon subsequence weighted by the length.Google?s PageRank (Page and Brin, 1998) isone of the most popular ranking algorithms.
It isalso graph-based and has been successfully appliedin summarization.
Table 1 lists the result of ourimplementation of PageRank based on event terms.We then compare it with the results of the eventterm clustering-based approaches illustrated inTable 2.PageRankROUGE-1 0.32749187ROUGE-2 0.05670ROUGE-W 0.11500Table 1.
Evaluations of PageRank-basedSummarizationLOCAL+OTAC MAX SUMROUGE-1 0.32771 0.33243ROUGE-2 0.05334 0.05569ROUGE-W 0.11633 0.11718GLOBAL+OTAC MAX SUMROUGE-1 0.32549 0.32966ROUGE-2 0.05254 0.05257ROUGE-W 0.11670 0.11641LOCAL+OCAT MAX SUMROUGE-1 0.33519 0.33397ROUGE-2 0.05662 0.05869ROUGE-W 0.11917 0.11849GLOBAL+OCAT MAX SUMROUGE-1 0.33568 0.33872ROUGE-2 0.05506 0.05933ROUGE-W 0.11795 0.12011Table 2.
Evaluations of Clustering-basedSummarizationThe experiments show that both assumptions arereasonable.
It is encouraging to find that our eventterm clustering-based approaches could outperformthe PageRank-based approach.
The results basedon the second assumption are even better.
Thissuggests indeed there is a main topic in a DUC2001 document set.4 ConclusionIn this paper, we put forward to apply clusteringalgorithm on the event term graph connected bysemantic relations derived from external linguisticresource.
The experiment results based on our twoassumptions are encouraging.
Event termclustering-based approaches perform better thanPageRank-based approach.
Current approachessimply utilize the degrees of event terms in thegraph.
In the future, we would like to furtherexplore and integrate more information derivedfrom documents in order to achieve moresignificant results using the event term clustering-based approaches.AcknowledgmentsThe work described in this paper was fullysupported by a grant from the Research GrantsCouncil of the Hong Kong Special AdministrativeRegion, China (Project No.
PolyU5181/03E).ReferencesChin-Yew Lin and Eduard Hovy.
2003.
AutomaticEvaluation of Summaries using N-gramCooccurrence Statistics.
In Proceedings of HLT/NAACL 2003, pp71-78.Elena Filatova and Vasileios Hatzivassiloglou.
2004.Event-based Extractive Summarization.
InProceedings of ACL 2004 Workshop onSummarization, pp104-111.Hongyuan Zha.
2002.
Generic Summarization andkeyphrase Extraction using Mutual ReinforcementPrinciple and Sentence Clustering.
In Proceedingsof the 25th annual international ACM SIGIRconference on Research and development ininformation retrieval, 2002. pp113-120.Lawrence Page and Sergey Brin, Motwani Rajeevand Winograd Terry.
1998.
The PageRankCitationRanking: Bring Order to the Web.Technical Report,Stanford University.Martin Easter, Hans-Peter Kriegel, J?rg Sander, et al1996.
A Density-Based Algorithm for DiscoveringClusters in Large Spatial Databases with Noise.
InProceedings of the 2nd International Conferenceon Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining, MenloPark, CA, 1996.
226-231.Lawrence Page, Sergey Brin, Rajeev Motwani andTerry Winograd.
1998.
The PageRankCitationRanking: Bring Order to the Web.Technical Report,Stanford University.Timothy Chklovski and Patrick Pantel.
2004.VerbOcean: Mining the Web for Fine-GrainedSemantic Verb Relations.
In Proceedings ofConference on Empirical Methods in NaturalLanguage Processing, 2004.Vasileios Hatzivassiloglou, Judith L. Klavans,Melissa L. Holcombe, et al 2001.
Simfinder: AFlexible Clustering Tool for Summarization.
InWorkshop on Automatic Summarization, NAACL,2001.Wenjie Li, Wei Xu, Mingli Wu, et al 2006.Extractive Summarization using Inter- and Intra-Event Relevance.
In Proceedings of ACL 2006,pp369-376.Yi Guo and George Stylios.
2005.
An intelligentsummarization system based on cognitivepsychology.
Journal of Information Sciences,Volume 174, Issue 1-2, Jun.
2005, pp1-36.188
