Proceedings of the 45th Annual Meeting of the Association of Computational Linguistics, pages 888?895,Prague, Czech Republic, June 2007. c?2007 Association for Computational LinguisticsAutomatic Acquisition of Ranked Qualia Structures from the Web1Philipp CimianoInst.
AIFB, University of KarlsruheEnglerstr.
11, D-76131 Karlsruhecimiano@aifb.uni-karlsruhe.deJohanna WenderothInst.
AIFB, University of KarlsruheEnglerstr.
11, D-76131 Karlsruhejowenderoth@googlemail.comAbstractThis paper presents an approach for the au-tomatic acquisition of qualia structures fornouns from the Web and thus opens the pos-sibility to explore the impact of qualia struc-tures for natural language processing at alarger scale.
The approach builds on ear-lier work based on the idea of matching spe-cific lexico-syntactic patterns conveying acertain semantic relation on the World WideWeb using standard search engines.
In ourapproach, the qualia elements are actuallyranked for each qualia role with respect tosome measure.
The specific contribution ofthe paper lies in the extensive analysis andquantitative comparison of different mea-sures for ranking the qualia elements.
Fur-ther, for the first time, we present a quan-titative evaluation of such an approach forlearning qualia structures with respect to ahandcrafted gold standard.1 IntroductionQualia structures have been originally introducedby (Pustejovsky, 1991) and are used for a varietyof purposes in natural language processing (NLP),such as for the analysis of compounds (Johnston andBusa, 1996) as well as co-composition and coercion(Pustejovsky, 1991), but also for bridging referenceresolution (Bos et al, 1995).
Further, it has also1The work reported in this paper has been supported by theX-Media project, funded by the European Commission underEC grant number IST-FP6-026978 as well by the SmartWebproject, funded by the German Ministry of Research.
Thanksto all our colleagues for helping to evaluate the approach.been argued that qualia structures and lexical seman-tic relations in general have applications in informa-tion retrieval (Voorhees, 1994; Pustejovsky et al,1993).
One major bottleneck however is that cur-rently qualia structures need to be created by hand,which is probably also the reason why there are al-most no practical NLP systems using qualia struc-tures, but a lot of systems relying on publicly avail-able resources such as WordNet (Fellbaum, 1998)or FrameNet (Baker et al, 1998) as source of lex-ical/world knowledge.
The work described in thispaper addresses this issue and presents an approachto automatically learning qualia structures for nounsfrom the Web.
The approach is inspired in recentwork on using the Web to identify instances of a re-lation of interest such as in (Markert et al, 2003) and(Etzioni et al, 2005).
These approaches rely on acombination of the usage of lexico-syntactic pattensconveying a certain relation of interest as describedin (Hearst, 1992) with the idea of using the web as abig corpus (cf.
(Kilgariff and Grefenstette, 2003)).Our approach directly builds on our previous work(Cimiano and Wenderoth, 2005) an adheres to theprincipled idea of learning ranked qualia structures.In fact, a ranking of qualia elements is useful as ithelps to determine a cut-off point and as a reliabil-ity indicator for lexicographers inspecting the qualiastructures.
In contrast to our previous work, the fo-cus of this paper lies in analyzing different measuresfor ranking the qualia elements in the automaticallyacquired qualia structures.
We also introduce ad-ditional patterns for the agentive role which makeuse of wildcard operators.
Further, we present agold standard for qualia structures created for the 30words used in the evaluation of Yamada and Bald-win (Yamada and Baldwin, 2004).
The evaluation888presented here is thus much more extensive than ourprevious one (Cimiano and Wenderoth, 2005), inwhich only 7 words were used.
We present a quanti-tative evaluation of our approach and a comparisonof the different ranking measures with respect to thisgold standard.
Finally, we also provide an evaluationin which test persons were asked to inspect and ratethe learned qualia structures a posteriori.
The paperis structured as follows: Section 2 introduces qualiastructures for the sake of completeness and describesthe specific structures we aim to acquire.
Section3 describes our approach in detail, while Section 4discusses the ranking measures used.
Section 5 thenpresents the gold standard as well as the qualitativeevaluation of our approach.
Before concluding, wediscuss related work in Section 6.2 Qualia StructuresIn the Generative Lexicon (GL) framework (Puste-jovsky, 1991), Pustejovsky reused Aristotle?s basicfactors (i.e.
the material, agentive, formal and finalcauses) for the description of the meaning of lexi-cal elements.
In fact, he introduced so called qualiastructures by which the meaning of a lexical ele-ment is described in terms of four roles: Constitutive(describing physical properties of an object, i.e.
itsweight, material as well as parts and components),Agentive (describing factors involved in the bringingabout of an object, i.e.
its creator or the causal chainleading to its creation), Formal (describing proper-ties which distinguish an object within a larger do-main, i.e.
orientation, magnitude, shape and dimen-sionality), and Telic (describing the purpose or func-tion of an object).Most of the qualia structures used in (Pustejovsky,1991) however seem to have a more restricted inter-pretation.
In fact, in most examples the Constitutiverole seems to describe the parts or components of anobject, while the Agentive role is typically describedby a verb denoting an action which typically bringsthe object in question into existence.
The Formalrole normally consists in typing information aboutthe object, i.e.
its hypernym.
In our approach, weaim to acquire qualia structures according to this re-stricted interpretation.3 Automatically Acquiring QualiaStructuresOur approach to learning qualia structures from theWeb is on the one hand based on the assumptionthat instances of a certain semantic relation can beacquired by matching certain lexico-syntactic pat-terns more or less reliably conveying the relationof interest in line with the seminal work of Hearst(Hearst, 1992), who defined patterns conveying hy-ponym/hypernym relations.
However, it is wellknown that Hearst-style patterns occur rarely, suchthat matching these patterns on the Web in orderto alleviate the problem of data sparseness seems apromising solution.
In fact, in our case we are notonly looking for the hypernym relation (comparableto the Formal-role) but for similar patterns convey-ing a Constitutive, Telic or Agentive relation.
Ourapproach consists of 5 phases; for each qualia term(the word we want to find the qualia structure for)we:1. generate for each qualia role a set of so calledclues, i.e.
search engine queries indicating therelation of interest,2.
download the snippets (abstracts) of the 50 firstweb search engine results matching the generatedclues,3.
part-of-speech-tag the downloaded snippets,4.
match patterns in the form of regular expressionsconveying the qualia role of interest, and5.
weight and rank the returned qualia elements ac-cording to some measure.The patterns in our pattern library are actuallytuples (p, c) where p is a regular expression de-fined over part-of-speech tags and c a function c :string ?
string called the clue.
Given a nomi-nal n and a clue c, the query c(n) is sent to the websearch engine and the abstracts of the first m docu-ments matching this query are downloaded.
Thenthe snippets are processed to find matches of thepattern p. For example, given the clue f(x) =?such as p(x)??
and the qualia term computer wewould download m abstracts matching the queryf(computer), i.e.
?such as computers?.
Hereby p(x)is a function returning the plural form of x.
We im-plemented this function as a lookup in a lexicon inwhich plural nouns are mapped to their base form.With the use of such clues, we thus download a num-889ber of snippets returned by the web search engine inwhich a corresponding regular expression will prob-ably be matched, thus restricting the linguistic anal-ysis to a few promising pages.
The downloaded ab-stracts are then part-of-speech tagged using QTag(Tufis and Mason, 1998).
Then we match the corre-sponding pattern p in the downloaded snippets thusyielding candidate qualia elements as output.
Thequalia elements are then ranked according to somemeasure (compare Section 4), resulting in what wecall Ranked Qualia Structures (RQSs).
The cluesand patterns used for the different roles can be foundin Tables 1 - 4.
In the specification of the clues, thefunction a(x) returns the appropriate indefinite arti-cle ?
?a?
or ?an?
?
or no article at all for the noun x.The use of an indefinite article or no article at all ac-counts for the distinction between countable nouns(e.g.
such as knife) and mass nouns (e.g.
water).The choice between using the articles ?a?, ?an?
orno article at all is determined by issuing appropriatequeries to the web search engine and choosing thearticle leading to the highest number of results.
Thecorresponding patterns are then matched in the 50snippets returned by the search engine for each clue,thus leading to up to 50 potential qualia elements perclue and pattern2.
The patterns are actually definedover part-of-speech tags.
We indicate POS-tags insquare brackets.
However, for the sake of simplic-ity, we largely omit the POS-tags for the lexical ele-ments in the patterns described in Tables 1 - 4.
Notethat we use traditional regular expression operatorssuch as ?
(sequence), + (sequence with at least oneelement) | (alternative) and ?
(option).
In general,we define a noun phrase (NP) by the following reg-ular expression: NP:=[DT]?
([JJ])+?
[NN(S?
)])+3,where the head is the underlined expression, whichis lemmatized and considered as a candidate qualiaelement.
For all the patterns described in this sec-tion, the underlined part corresponds to the extractedqualia element.
In the patterns for the formal role(compare Table 1), NPQT is a noun phrase with thequalia term as head, whereas NPF is a noun phrasewith the potential qualia element as head.
For theconstitutive role patterns, we use a noun phrase vari-2For the constitutive role these can be even more due to thefact that we consider enumerations.3Though Qtag uses another part-of-speech tagset, we rely onthe well-known Penn Treebank tagset for presentation purposes.Clue PatternSingular?a(x) x is a kind of ?
NPQT is a kind of NPF?a(x) x is?
NPQT is a kind of NPF?a(x) x and other?
NPQT (,)?
and other NPF?a(x) x or other?
NPQT (,)?
or other NPFPlural?such as p(x)?
NPF such as NPQT?p(x) and other?
NPQT (,)?
and other NPF?p(x) or other?
NPQT (,)?
or other NPF?especially p(x)?
NPF (,)?
especially NPQT?including p(x)?
NPF (,)?
including NPQTTable 1: Clues and Patterns for the Formal roleant NP?
defined by the regular expression NP?
:=(NP of[IN])?
NP (, NP)* ((,)?
(and|or) NP)?, whichallows to extract enumerations of constituents (com-pare Table 2).
It is important to mention that in thecase of expressions such as ?a car comprises a fixednumber of basic components?, ?data mining com-prises a range of data analysis techniques?, ?booksconsist of a series of dots?, or ?a conversation ismade up of a series of observable interpersonal ex-changes?, only the NP after the preposition ?of?
istaken into account as qualia element.
The Telic Roleis in principle acquired in the same way as the For-mal and Constitutive roles with the exception thatthe qualia element is not only the head of a nounphrase, but also a verb or a verb followed by a nounphrase.
Table 3 gives the corresponding clues andpatterns.
In particular, the returned candidate qualiaelements are the lemmatized underlined expressionsin PURP:=[VB] NP | NP | be[VBD].
Finally, con-cerning the clues and patterns for the agentive roleshown in Table 4, it is interesting to emphasize theusage of the adjectives ?new?
and ?complete?.
Theseadjectives are used in the patterns to increase the ex-pectation for the occurrence of a creation verb.
Ac-cording to our experiments, these patterns are in-deed more reliable in finding appropriate qualia ele-ments than the alternative version without the adjec-tives ?new?
and ?complete?.
Note that in all patterns,the participle (VBD) is always reduced to base form(VB) via a lexicon lookup.
In general, the patternshave been crafted by hand, testing and refining themin an iterative process, paying attention to maximizetheir coverage but also accuracy.
In the future, weplan to exploit an approach to automatically learnthe patterns.890Clue PatternSingular?a(x) x is made up of ?
NPQT is made up of NP?C?a(x) x is made of?
NPQT is made of NP?C?a(x) x comprises?
NPQT comprises (of)?
NP?C?a(x) x consists of?
NPQT consists of NP?CPlural?p(x) are made up of ?
NPQT is made up of NP?C?p(x) are made of?
NPQT are made of NP?C?p(x) comprise?
NPQT comprise (of)?
NP?C?p(x) consist of?
NPQT consist of NP?CTable 2: Clues and Patterns for the Constitutive RoleClue PatternSingular?purpose of a(x) x is?
purpose of (a|an) x is (to)?
PURP?a(x) is used to?
(a|an) x is used to PURPPlural?purpose of p(x) is?
purpose of p(x) is (to)?
PURP?p(x) are used to?
p(x) are used to PURPTable 3: Clues and Patterns for the Telic Role4 Ranking MeasuresIn order to rank the different qualia elements of agiven qualia structure, we rely on a certain rankingmeasure.
In our experiments, we analyze four differ-ent ranking measures.
On the one hand, we exploremeasures which use the Web to calculate the corre-lation strength between a qualia term and its qualiaelements.
These measures are Web-based versionsof the Jaccard coefficient (Web-Jac), the PointwiseMutual Information (Web-PMI) and the conditionalprobability (Web-P).
We also present a version ofthe conditional probability which does not use theWeb but merely relies on the counts of each qualiaelement as produced by the lexico-syntactic patterns(P-measure).
We describe these measures in the fol-lowing.4.1 Web-based Jaccard Measure (Web-Jac)Our web-based Jaccard (Web-Jac) measure relies onthe web search engine to calculate the number ofdocuments in which x and y co-occur close to eachother, divided by the number of documents each oneoccurs, i.e.Web-Jac(x, y) :=Hits(x ?
y)Hits(x) + Hits(y) ?
Hits(x AND y)So here we are relying on the wildcard operator ?
*?provided by the Google search engine API4.
Though4In fact, for the experiments described in this paper we relyon the Google API.Clue PatternSingular?to * a(x) new x?
to [RB]?
[VB] a?
new x?to * a(x) complete x?
to [RB]?
[VB] a?
complete x?a(x) new has been *?
a?
new x has been [VBD]?a(x) complete x has been *?
a?
complete has been [VBD]Plural?to * new p(x)?
to [RB]?
[VB] new p(x)?to * complete p(x)?
to [RB]?
[VB] complete p(x)Table 4: Clues and Patterns for the Agentive Rolethe specific function of the ?*?
operator as imple-mented by Google is actually unknown, the behavioris similar to the formerly available Altavista NEARoperator5.4.2 Web-based Pointwise Mutual Information(Web-PMI)In line with Magnini et al (Magnini et al, 2001),we define a PMI-based measure as follows:Web ?
PMI(x, y) := log2Hits(x AND y) MaxPagesHits(y) Hits(y)where maxPages is an approximation for the maxi-mum number of English web pages6.4.3 Web-based Conditional Probability(Web-P)The conditional probability P (x|y) is essentiallythe probability that x is true given that y is true, i.e.Web-P(x, y) := P (x|y) = P (x,y)P (y) =Hits(x NEAR y)Hits(y)whereby Hits(x NEAR y) is calculated asmentioned above using the ?*?
operator.
In contrastto the measures described above, this one is asym-metric so that order indeed matters.
Given a qualiaterm qt as well as a qualia element qe we actuallycalculate Web-P(qe,qt) for a specific qualia role.4.4 Conditional Probability (P)The non web-based conditional probability essen-tially differs from the Web-based conditional prob-ability in that we only rely on the qualia elements5Initial experiments indeed showed that counting pages inwhich the two terms occur near each other in contrast to count-ing pages in which they merely co-occur improved the resultsof the Jaccard measure by about 15%.6We determine this number experimentally as the number ofweb pages containing the words ?the?
and ?and?.891matched.
On the basis of these, we then calculatethe probability of a certain qualia element given acertain role on the basis of its frequency of appear-ance with respect to the total number of qualia ele-ments derived for this role, i.e.
we simply calculateP (qe|qr, qt) on the basis of the derived occurrences,where qt is a given qualia term, qr is the specificqualia role and qe is a qualia element.5 EvaluationIn this section, we first of all describe our evaluationmeasures.
Then we describe the creation of the goldstandard.
Further, we present the results of the com-parison of the different ranking measures with re-spect to the gold standard.
Finally, we present an ?aposteriori?
evaluation showing that the qualia struc-tures learned are indeed reasonable.5.1 Evaluation MeasuresAs our focus is to compare the different measuresdescribed above, we need to evaluate their corre-sponding rankings of the qualia elements for eachqualia structure.
This is a similar case to evaluat-ing the ranking of documents within information re-trieval systems.
In fact, as done in standard infor-mation retrieval research, our aim is to determinefor each ranking the precision/recall trade-off whenconsidering more or less of the items starting fromthe top of the ranked list.
Thus, we evaluate our ap-proach calculating precision at standard recall levelsas typically done in information retrieval research(compare (Baeza-Yates and Ribeiro-Neto, 1999)).Hereby the 11 standard recall levels are 0%, 10%,20%, 30%, 40%, 50%, 60%, 70%, 80%, 90% and100%.
Further, precision at these standard recalllevels is calculated by interpolating recall as fol-lows: P (rj) = maxrj?r?rj+1P (r), where, j ?
{0, 0.1, 0.2, 0.3, 0.4, 0.5, 0.6, 0.7, 0.8, 0.9, 1}.
Thisway we can compare the precision over standard re-call figures for the different rankings, thus observingwhich measure leads to the better precision/recalltrade-off.In addition, in order to provide one single valueto compare, we also calculate the F-Measure cor-responding to the best precision/recall trade-off foreach ranking measure.
This F-Measure thus corre-sponds to the best cut-off point we can find for theitems in the ranked list.
In fact, we use the well-known F1 measure corresponding to the harmonicmean between recall and precision:F1 := maxj2 P (rj) rjP (rj) + rjAs a baseline, we compare our results to a naivestrategy without any ranking, i.e.
we calculate theF-Measure for all the items in the (unranked) list ofqualia elements.
Consequently, for the rankings tobe useful, they need to yield higher F-Measures thanthis naive baseline.5.2 Gold StandardThe gold standard was created for the 30 words usedalready in the experiments described in (Yamada andBaldwin, 2004): accounting, beef, book, car, cash,clinic, complexity, counter, county, delegation, door,estimate, executive, food, gaze, imagination, inves-tigation, juice, knife, letter, maturity, novel, phone,prisoner, profession, review, register, speech, sun-shine, table.
These words were distributed more orless uniformly between 30 participants of our exper-iment, making sure that three qualia structures foreach word were created by three different subjects.The participants, who were all non-linguistics, re-ceived a short instruction in the form of a short pre-sentation explaining what qualia structures are, theaims of the experiment as well as their specific task.They were also shown some examples for qualiastructures for words not considered in our experi-ments.
Further, they were asked to provide between5 and 10 qualia elements for each qualia role.
Theparticipants completed the test via e-mail.
As a firstinteresting observation, it is worth mentioning thatthe participants only delivered 3-5 qualia elementson average depending on the role in question.
Thisshows already that participants had trouble in find-ing different qualia elements for a given qualia role.We calculate the agreement for the task of specify-ing qualia structures for a particular term and role asthe averaged pairwise agreement between the qualiaelements delivered by the three subjects, henceforthS1, S2 and S3 as:Agr :=|S1?S2||S1?S2|+ |S1?S3||S1?S3| +|S2?S3||S2?S3|3Averaging over all the roles and words, we get anaverage agreement of 11.8%, i.e.
our human test892subjects coincide in slightly more than every 10thqualia element.
This is certainly a very low agree-ment and certainly hints at the fact that the task con-sidered is certainly difficult.
The agreement waslowest (7.29%) for the telic role.A further interesting observation is that the lowestagreement is yielded for more abstract words, whilethe agreement for very concrete words is reasonable.For example, the five words with the highest agree-ment are indeed concrete things: knife (31%), cash(29%), juice (21%), car (20%) and door (19%).
Thewords with an agreement below 5% are gaze, pris-oner, accounting, maturity, complexity and delega-tion.
In particular, our test subjects had substantialdifficulties in finding the purpose of such abstractwords.
In fact, the agreement on the telic role is be-low 5% for more than half of the words.In general, this shows that any automatic ap-proach towards learning qualia structures faces se-vere limits.
For sure, we can not expect the resultsof an automatic evaluation to be very high.
For ex-ample, for the telic role of ?clinic?, one test subjectspecified the qualia element ?cure?, while anotherone specified ?cure disease?, thus leading to a dis-agreement in spite of the obvious agreement at thesemantic level.
In this line, the average agreementreported above has in fact to be regarded as a lowerbound for the actual agreement.
Of course, our ap-proach to calculating agreement is too strict, but inabsence of a clear and computable definition of se-mantic agreement, it will suffice for the purposes ofthis paper.5.3 Gold Standard EvaluationWe ran experiments calculating the qualia structurefor each of the 30 words, ranking the resulting qualiaelements for each qualia structure using the differentmeasures described in Section 4.Figure 1 shows the best F-Measure correspond-ing to a cut-off leading to an optimal precision/recalltrade-off.
We see that the P -measure performs best,while the Web-P measure and the Web-Jac measurefollow at about 0.05 and 0.2 points distance.
ThePMI-based measure indeed leads to the worst F-Measure values.Indeed, the P -measure delivered the best resultsfor the formal and agentive roles, while for the con-stitutive and telic roles the Web-Jac measure per-Figure 1: Average F1 measure for the different rank-ing measuresformed best.
The reason why PMI performs so badlyis the fact that it favors too specific results whichare unlikely to occur as such in the gold standard.For example, while the conditional probability rankshighest: explore, help illustrate, illustrate and en-rich for the telic role of novel, the PMI-based mea-sure ranks highest: explore great themes, illustratetheological points, convey truth, teach reading skillsand illustrate concepts.
A series of significance tests(paired Student?s t-test at an ?-level of 0.05) showedthat the three best performing measures (P , Web-P and Web-Jaccard) show no real difference amongthem, while all three show significant difference tothe Web-PMI measure.
A second series of signif-icance tests (again paired Student?s t-test at an ?-level of 0.05) showed that all ranking measures in-deed significantly outperform the baseline, whichshows that our rankings are indeed reasonable.
In-terestingly, there seems to be an interesting positivecorrelation between the F-Measure and the humanagreement.
For example, for the best performingranking measure, i.e.
the P -measure, we get an av-erage F-Measure of 21% for words with an agree-ment over 5%, while we get an F-Measure of 9%for words with an agreement below 5%.
The rea-son here probably is that those words and qualia ele-ments for which people are more confident also havea higher frequency of appearance on the Web.5.4 A posteriori EvaluationIn order to check whether the automatically learnedqualia structures are reasonable from an intuitivepoint of view, we also performed an a posteriori893evaluation in the lines of (Cimiano and Wenderoth,2005).
In this experiment, we presented the top 10ranked qualia elements for each qualia role for 10randomly selected words to the different test per-sons.
Here we only used the P -measure for rank-ing as it performed best in our previous evaluationwith regard to the gold standard.
In order to ver-ify that our sample is not biased, we checked thatthe F-Measure yielded by our 10 randomly selectedwords (17.7%) does not differ substantially from theoverall average F-Measure (17.1%) to be sure thatwe have chosen words from all F-Measure ranges.In particular, we asked different test subjects whichalso participated in the creation of the gold standardto rate the qualia elements with respect to their ap-propriateness for the qualia term using a scale from0 to 3, whereby 0 means ?wrong?, 1 ?not totallywrong?, 2 ?acceptable?
and 3 ?totally correct?.
Theparticipants confirmed that it was easier to validateexisting qualia structures than to create them fromscratch, which already corroborates the usefulnessof our automatic approach.
The qualia structure foreach of the 10 randomly selected words was vali-dated independently by three test persons.
In fact,in what follows we always report results averagedfor three test subjects.
Figure 2 shows the averagevalues for different roles.
We observe that the con-stitutive role yields the best results, followed by theformal, telic and agentive roles (in this order).
Ingeneral, all results are above 2, which shows thatthe qualia structures produced are indeed acceptable.Though we do not present these results in more de-tail due to space limitations, it is also interesting tomention that the F-Measure calculated with respectto the gold standard was in general highly correlatedwith the values assigned by the human test subjectsin this a posteriori validation.6 Related WorkInstead of matching Hearst-style patterns (Hearst,1992) in a large text collection, some researchershave recently turned to the Web to match these pat-terns such as in (Markert et al, 2003) or (Etzioni etal., 2005).
Our approach goes further in that it notonly learns typing, superconcept or instance-of rela-tions, but also Constitutive, Telic and Agentive rela-tions.Figure 2: Average ratings for each qualia roleThere also exist approaches specifically aiming atlearning qualia elements from corpora based on ma-chine learning techniques.
Claveau et al (Claveauet al, 2003) for example use Inductive Logic Pro-gramming to learn if a given verb is a qualia ele-ment or not.
However, their approach does no goas far as learning the complete qualia structure for alexical element as in our approach.
Further, in theirapproach they do not distinguish between differentqualia roles and restrict themselves to verbs as po-tential fillers of qualia roles.Yamada and Baldwin (Yamada and Baldwin, 2004)present an approach to learning Telic and Agentiverelations from corpora analyzing two different ap-proaches: one relying on matching certain lexico-syntactic patterns as in the work presented here, butalso a second approach consisting in training a max-imum entropy model classifier.
The patterns usedby (Yamada and Baldwin, 2004) differ substantiallyfrom the ones used in this paper, which is mainlydue to the fact that search engines do not providesupport for regular expressions and thus instantiat-ing a pattern as ?V[+ing] Noun?
is impossible in ourapproach as the verbs are unknown a priori.Poesio and Almuhareb (Poesio and Almuhareb,2005) present a machine learning based approach toclassifying attributes into the six categories: qual-ity, part, related-object, activity, related-agent andnon-attribute.7 ConclusionWe have presented an approach to automaticallylearning qualia structures from the Web.
Such anapproach is especially interesting either for lexicog-894raphers aiming at constructing lexicons, but evenmore for natural language processing systems re-lying on deep lexical knowledge as represented byqualia structures.
In particular, we have focusedon learning ranked qualia structures which allowto find an ideal cut-off point to increase the preci-sion/recall trade-off of the learned structures.
Wehave abstracted from the issue of finding the appro-priate cut-off, leaving this for future work.
In partic-ular, we have evaluated different ranking measuresfor this purpose, showing that all of the analyzedmeasures (Web-P, Web-Jaccard, Web-PMI and theconditional probability) significantly outperformeda baseline using no ranking measure.
Overall, theplain conditional probability P (not calculated overthe Web) as well as the conditional probability cal-culated over the Web (Web-P) delivered the best re-sults, while the PMI-based ranking measure yieldedthe worst results.
In general, our main aim has beento show that, though the task of automatically learn-ing qualia structures is indeed very difficult as shownby our low human agreement, reasonable structurescan indeed be learned with a pattern-based approachas presented in this paper.
Further work will aimat inducing the patterns automatically given someseed examples, but also at using the automaticallylearned structures within NLP applications.
The cre-ated qualia structure gold standard is available forthe community7.ReferencesR.
Baeza-Yates and B. Ribeiro-Neto.
1999.
Modern In-formation Retrieval.
Addison-Wesley.C.F.
Baker, C.J.
Fillmore, and J.B. Lowe.
1998.
TheBerkeley FrameNet Project.
In Proceedings of COL-ING/ACL?98, pages 86?90.J.
Bos, P. Buitelaar, and M. Mineur.
1995.
Bridging ascoercive accomodation.
In Working Notes of the Edin-burgh Conference on Computational Logic and Natu-ral Language Processing (CLNLP-95).P.
Cimiano and J. Wenderoth.
2005.
Learning qualiastructures from the web.
In Proceedings of the ACLWorkshop on Deep Lexical Acquisition, pages 28?37.V.
Claveau, P. Sebillot, C. Fabre, and P. Bouillon.
2003.Learning semantic lexicons from a part-of-speech andsemantically tagged corpus using inductive logic pro-gramming.
Journal of Machine Learning Research,(4):493?525.7See http://www.cimiano.de/qualia.O.
Etzioni, M. Cafarella, D. Downey, A-M. Popescu,T.
Shaked, S. Soderland, D.S.
Weld, and A. Yates.2005.
Unsupervised named-entity extraction from theweb: An experimental study.
Artificial Intelligence,165(1):91?134.C.
Fellbaum.
1998.
WordNet, an electronic lexicaldatabase.
MIT Press.M.A.
Hearst.
1992.
Automatic acquisition of hyponymsfrom large text corpora.
In Proceedings of COL-ING?92, pages 539?545.M.
Johnston and F. Busa.
1996.
Qualia structure and thecompositional interpretation of compounds.
In Pro-ceedings of the ACL SIGLEX workshop on breadth anddepth of semantic lexicons.A.
Kilgariff and G. Grefenstette, editors.
2003.
SpecialIssue on the Web as Corpus of the Journal of Compu-tational Linguistics, volume 29(3).
MIT Press.B.
Magnini, M. Negri, R. Prevete, and H. Tanev.
2001.Is it the right answer?
: exploiting web redundancy foranswer validation.
In Proceedings of the 40th AnnualMeeting of the ACL, pages 425?432.K.
Markert, N. Modjeska, and M. Nissim.
2003.
Us-ing the web for nominal anaphora resolution.
In Pro-ceedings of the EACL Workshop on the ComputationalTreatment of Anaphora.M.
Poesio and A. Almuhareb.
2005.
Identifying conceptattributes using a classifier.
In Proceedings of the ACLWorkshop on Deep Lexical Acquisition, pages 18?27.J.
Pustejovsky, P. Anick, and S. Bergler.
1993.
Lexi-cal semantic techniques for corpus analysis.
Compu-tational Lingustics, Special Issue on Using Large Cor-pora II, 19(2):331?358.J.
Pustejovsky.
1991.
The generative lexicon.
Computa-tional Linguistics, 17(4):209?441.D.
Tufis and O. Mason.
1998.
Tagging RomanianTexts: a Case Study for QTAG, a Language Indepen-dent Probabilistic Tagger.
In Proceedings of LREC,pages 589?96.E.M.
Voorhees.
1994.
Query expansion using lexical-semantic relations.
In Proceedings of the 17th annualinternational ACM SIGIR conference on Research anddevelopment in information retrieval, pages 61?69.I.
Yamada and T. Baldwin.
2004.
Automatic discoveryof telic and agentive roles from corpus data.
In Pro-ceedings of the the 18th Pacific Asia Conference onLanguage, Information and Computation (PACLIC).895
