Proceedings of the ACL 2007 Demo and Poster Sessions, pages 189?192,Prague, June 2007. c?2007 Association for Computational LinguisticsMachine Translation between Turkic LanguagesA.
Cu?neyd TANTUG?Istanbul Technical UniversityIstanbul, Turkeytantug@itu.edu.trEs?ref ADALIIstanbul Technical UniversityIstanbul, Turkeyadali@itu.edu.trKemal OFLAZERSabanci UniversityIstanbul, Turkeyoflazer@sabanciuniv.eduAbstractWe present an approach to MT between Tur-kic languages and present results from animplementation of a MT system from Turk-men to Turkish.
Our approach relies on am-biguous lexical and morphological transferaugmented with target side rule-based re-pairs and rescoring with statistical languagemodels.1 IntroductionMachine translation is certainly one of the tough-est problems in natural language processing.
It isgenerally accepted however that machine transla-tion between close or related languages is simplerthan full-fledged translation between languages thatdiffer substantially in morphological and syntacticstructure.
In this paper, we present a machine trans-lation system from Turkmen to Turkish, both ofwhich belong to the Turkic language family.
Tur-kic languages essentially exhibit the same charac-teristics at the morphological and syntactic levels.However, except for a few pairs, the languages arenot mutually intelligible owing to substantial diver-gences in their lexicons possibly due to different re-gional and historical influences.
Such divergencesat the lexical level along with many but minor diver-gences at morphological and syntactic levels makethe translation problem rather non-trivial.
Our ap-proach is based on essentially morphological pro-cessing, and direct lexical and morphological trans-fer, augmented with substantial multi-word process-ing on the source language side and statistical pro-cessing on the target side where data for statisticallanguage modelling is more readily available.2 Related WorkStudies on machine translation between closelanguages are generally concentrated aroundcertain Slavic languages (e.g., Czech?Slovak,Czech?Polish, Czech?Lithuanian (Hajic et al,2003)) and languages spoken in the Iberian Penin-sula (e.g., Spanish?Catalan (Canals et al, 2000),Spanish?Galician (Corbi-Bellot et al, 2003) andSpanish?Portugese (Garrido-Alenda et al, 2003).Most of these implementations use similar modules:a morphological analyzer, a part-of-speech tagger,a bilingual transfer dictionary and a morphologicalgenerator.
Except for the Czech?Lithuaniansystem which uses a shallow parser, syntacticparsing is not necessary in most cases because ofthe similarities in word orders.
Also, the lexicalsemantic ambiguity is usually preserved so, none ofthese systems has any module for handling the lex-ical ambiguity.
For Turkic languages, Hamzaog?lu(1993) has developed a system from Turkish toAzerbaijani, and Alt?ntas?
(2000) has developed asystem from Turkish to Crimean Tatar.3 Turkic LanguagesTurkic languages, spoken by more than 180 millionpeople, constitutes subfamily of Ural-Altaic lan-guages and includes languages like Turkish, Azer-baijani, Turkmen, Uzbek, Kyrghyz, Kazakh, Tatar,Uyghur and many more.
All Turkic languages havevery productive inflectional and derivational agglu-tinative morphology.
For example the Turkish wordevlerimizden has three inflectional morphemes at-tached to a noun root ev (house), for the plural formwith second person plural possessive agreement andablative case:189evlerimizden (from our houses)ev+ler+imiz+denev+Noun+A3pl+P1sg+AblAll Turkic languages exhibit SOV constituent or-der but depending on discourse requirements, con-stituents can be in any order without any substan-tial formal constraints.
Syntactic structures betweenTurkic languages are more or less parallel thoughthere are interesting divergences due to mismatchesin multi-word or idiomatic constructions.4 ApproachOur approach is based on a direct morphologicaltransfer with some local multi-word processing onthe source language side, and statistical disambigua-tion on the target language side.
The main steps ofour model are:1.
Source Language (SL) Morphological Analysis2.
SL Morphological Disambiguation3.
Multi-Word Unit (MWU) Recognizer4.
Morphological Transfer5.
Root Word Transfer6.
Statistical Disambiguation and Rescoring (SLM)7.
Sentence Level Rules (SLR)8.
Target Language (TL) Morphological GeneratorSteps other than 3, 6 and 7 are the minimumrequirements for a direct morphological translationmodel (henceforth, the baseline system).
The MWURecognizer, SLM and SLR modules are additionalmodules for the baseline system to improve thetranslation quality.Source language morphological analysis may pro-duce multiple interpretation of a source word, andusually, depending on the ambiguities brought aboutby multiple possible segmentations into root andsuffixes, there may be different root words of pos-sibly different parts-of-speech for the same wordform.
Furthermore, each root word thus producedmay map to multiple target root words due to wordsense ambiguity.
Hence, among all possible sen-tences that can be generated with these ambigui-ties, the most probable one is selected by using var-ious types of SLMs that are trained on target lan-guage corpora annotated with disambiguated rootsand morphological features.MWU processing in Turkic languages involvesmore than the usual lexicalized collocations andinvolves detection of mostly unlexicalized intra-word morphological patterns (Oflazer et al, 2004).Source MWUs are recognized and marked duringsource analysis and the root word transfer modulemaps these either to target MWU patterns, or di-rectly translates when there is a divergence.Morphological transfer is implemented by a set ofrules hand-crafted using the contrastive knowledgebetween the selected language pair.Although the syntactic structures are very simi-lar between Turkic languages, there are quite manyminor situations where target morphological fea-tures marking features such as subject-verb agree-ment have to be recovered when such features arenot present in the source.
Furthermore, occasion-ally certain phrases have to be rearranged.
Finally, amorphological generator produces the surface formsof the lexical forms in the sentence.5 Turkmen to Turkish MT SystemThe first implementation of our approach is fromTurkmen to Turkish.
A general diagram of our MTsystem is presented in Figure 1.
The morphologi-cal analysis on the Turkmen side is performed bya two-level morphological analyzer developed usingXerox finite state tools (Tantug?
et al, 2006).
It takesa Turkmen word and produces all possible morpho-logical interpretations of that word.
A simple ex-periment on our test set indicates that the averageTurkmen word gets about 1.55 analyses.
The multi-word recognition module operates on the output ofthe morphological analyzer and wherever applica-ble, combines analyses of multiple tokens into a newanalysis with appropriate morphological features.One side effect of multi-word processing is a smallreduction in morphological ambiguity, as when suchunits are combined, the remaining morphological in-terpretations for these tokens are deleted.The actual transfer is carried out by transferringthe morphological structures and word roots fromthe source language to the target language maintain-ing any ambiguity in the process.
These are imple-mented with finite state transducers that are com-piled from replace rules written in the Xerox regularexpression language.1 A very simple example of thistransfer is shown in Figure 2.21The current implementation employs 28 replace rules formorphological feature transfer and 19 rules for sentence levelprocessing.2+Pos:Positive polarity, +A3sg: 3rd person singular agree-ment, +Inf1,+Inf2: infinitive markers, +P3sg, +Pnon: pos-sessive agreement markers, +Nom,+Acc: Nominative and ac-190Figure 1: Main blocks of the translation systemo?smegi?Source Morphological Analysis?o?s+Verb+Pos?DB+Noun+Inf1+A3sg+P3sg+Nomo?s+Verb+Pos?DB+Noun+Inf1+A3sg+Pnon+Acc?Source-to-Target Morphological Feature Transfer?o?s+Verb+Pos?DB+Noun+Inf2+A3sg+P3sg+Nomo?s+Verb+Pos?DB+Noun+Inf2+A3sg+Pnon+Acc?Source-to-Target Root word Transfer?ilerle+Verb+Pos?DB+Noun+Inf2+A3sg+P3sg+Nomilerle+Verb+Pos?DB+Noun+Inf2+A3sg+Pnon+Accbu?yu?+Verb+Pos?DB+Noun+Inf2+A3sg+P3sg+Nombu?yu?+Verb+Pos?DB+Noun+Inf2+A3sg+Pnon+Acc?Target Morphological Generation?ilerlemesi (the progress of (something))ilerlemeyi (the progress (as direct object))bu?yu?mesi (the growth of (something))bu?yu?meyi (the growth (as direct object))Figure 2: Word transferIn this example, once the morphological analy-sis is produced, first we do a morphological featuretransfer mapping.
In this case, the only interestingmapping is the change of the infinitive marker.
Thesource root verb is then ambiguously mapped to twoverbs on the Turkish side.
Finally, the Turkish sur-face form is generated by the morphological gen-erator.
Note that all the morphological processingdetails such as vowel harmony resolution (a mor-phographemic process common to all Turkic lan-guages though not in identical ways) are localizedto morphological generation.Root word transfer is also based on a large trans-cusative case markers.ducer compiled from bilingual dictionaries whichcontain many-to-many mappings.
During mappingthis transducer takes into account the source rootword POS.3 In some rare cases, mapping the wordroot is not sufficient to generate a legal Turkish lex-ical structure, as sometimes a required feature onthe target side may not be explicitly available on thesource word to generate a proper word.
In order toproduce the correct mapping in such cases, some ad-ditional lexicalized rules look at a wider context andinfer any needed features.While the output of morphological feature trans-fer module is usually unambiguous, ambiguity arisesduring the root word transfer phase.
We attempt toresolve this ambiguity on the target language sideusing statistical language models.
This howeverpresents additional difficulties as any statistical lan-guage model for Turkish (and possibly other Turkiclanguages) which is built by using the surface formssuffers from data sparsity problems.
This is dueto agglutinative morphology whereby a root wordmay give rise to too many inflected forms (about ahundred inflected forms for nouns and much morefor verbs; when productive derivations are consid-ered these numbers grow substantially!).
Therefore,instead of building statistical language models onfull word forms, we work with morphologically an-alyzed and disambiguated target language corpora.For example, we use a language model that is onlybased on the (disambiguated) root words to disam-biguate ambiguous root words that arise from root3Statistics on the test set indicate that on the average eachsource language root word maps to about 2 target language rootwords.191word transfer.
We also employ a language modelwhich is trained on the last set of inflectional fea-tures of morphological parses (hence does not in-volve any root words.
)Although word-by-word translation can producereasonably high quality translations, but in manycases, it is also the source of many translation errors.To alleviate the shortcomings of the word-by-wordtranslation approach, we resort to a series of rulesthat operate across the whole sentence.
Such rulesoperate on the lexical and surface representation ofthe output sentence.
For example, when the sourcelanguage is missing a subject agreement marker ona verb, this feature can not be transferred to the tar-get language and the target language generator willfail to generate the appropriate word.
We use somesimple heuristics that try to recover the agreementinformation from any overt pronominal subject innominative case, and that failing, set the agreementto 3rd person singular.
Some sentence level rulesrequire surface forms because this set of rules usu-ally make orthographic changes affected by previousword forms.
In the following example, suitable vari-ants of the clitics de and mi must be selected so thatvowel harmony with the previous token is preserved.o de go?rdu?
mi?
?
o da go?rdu?
mu??
(did he see too?
)A wide-coverage Turkish morphological analyzer(Oflazer, 1994) made available to be used in reversedirection to generate the surface forms of the trans-lations.6 Results and EvaluationWe have tracked the progress of our changes toour system using the BLEU metric (Papineni et al,2004), though it has serious drawbacks for aggluti-native and free constituent order languages.The performance of the baseline system (all stepsabove, except 3, 6, and 7) and systems with ad-ditional modules are given in Table 1 for a set of254 Turkmen sentences with 2 reference translationseach.
As seen in the table, each module contributesto the performance of the baseline system.
Further-more, a manual investigation of the outputs indicatesthat the actual quality of the translations is higherthan the one indicated by the BLEU score.4 The er-rors mostly stem from the statical language models4There are many translations which preserve the samemean-ing with the references but get low BLEU scores.not doing a good job at selecting the right root wordsand/or the right morphological features.System BLEU ScoreBaseline 26.57Baseline + MWU 28.45Baseline + MWU + SLM 31.37Baseline + MWU + SLM + SLR 33.34Table 1: BLEU Scores7 ConclusionsWe have presented an MT system architecture be-tween Turkic languages using morphological trans-fer coupled with target side language modelling andresults from a Turkmen to Turkish system.
The re-sults are quite positive but there is quite some roomfor improvement.
Our current work involves im-proving the quality of our current system as well asexpanding this approach to Azerbaijani and Uyghur.AcknowledgmentsThis work was partially supported by Project 106E048 fundedby The Scientific and Technical Research Council of Turkey.Kemal Oflazer acknowledges the kind support of LTI atCarnegie Mellon University, where he was a sabbatical visitorduring the academic year 2006 ?
2007.ReferencesA.
Cu?neyd Tantug?, Es?ref Adal?, Kemal Oflazer.
2006.
Com-puter Analysis of the Turkmen Language Morphology.
Fin-TAL, Lecture Notes in Computer Science, 4139:186-193.A.
Garrido-Alenda et al 2003.
Shallow Parsing forPortuguese-Spanish Machine Translation.
in TASHA 2003:Workshop on Tagging and Shallow Processing of Por-tuguese, Lisbon, Portugal.A.
M. Corbi-Bellot et al 2005.
An open-source shallow-transfer machine translation engine for the Romance lan-guages of Spain.
in 10th EAMT conference ?Practical ap-plications of machine translation?, Budapest, Hungary.Jan Hajic, Petr Homola, Vladislav Kubon.
2003.
A simplemultilingual machine translation system.
MT Summit IX.I?lker Hamzaog?lu.
1993.
Machine translation from Turkish toother Turkic languages and an implementation for the Azerilanguage.
MSc Thesis, Bogazici University, Istanbul.Kemal Alt?ntas?.
2000.
Turkish to Crimean Tatar MachineTranslation System.
MSc Thesis, Bilkent University, Ankara.Kemal Oflazer.
1994.
Two-level description of Turkish mor-phology.
Literary and Linguistic Computing, 9(2).Kemal Oflazer, O?zlem C?etinog?lu, Bilge Say.
2004.
Integrat-ing Morphology with Multi-word Expression Processing inTurkish.
The ACL 2004 Workshop on Multiword Expres-sions: Integrating Processing.Kishore Papineni et al 2002.
BLEU : A Method for AutomaticEvaluation of Machine Translation.
Association of Compu-tational Linguistics, ACL?02.Raul Canals-Marote et al 2000. interNOSTRUM: a Spanish-Catalan Machine Translation System.
Machine TranslationReview, 11:21-25.192
