Proceedings of the 45th Annual Meeting of the Association of Computational Linguistics, pages 104?111,Prague, Czech Republic, June 2007. c?2007 Association for Computational LinguisticsRedundancy Ratio: An Invariant Property of theConsonant Inventories of the World?s LanguagesAnimesh Mukherjee, Monojit Choudhury, Anupam Basu, Niloy GangulyDepartment of Computer Science and Engineering,Indian Institute of Technology, Kharagpur{animeshm,monojit,anupam,niloy}@cse.iitkgp.ernet.inAbstractIn this paper, we put forward an informationtheoretic definition of the redundancy that isobserved across the sound inventories of theworld?s languages.
Through rigorous statis-tical analysis, we find that this redundancyis an invariant property of the consonant in-ventories.
The statistical analysis further un-folds that the vowel inventories do not ex-hibit any such property, which in turn pointsto the fact that the organizing principles ofthe vowel and the consonant inventories arequite different in nature.1 IntroductionRedundancy is a strikingly common phenomenonthat is observed across many natural systems.
Thisredundancy is present mainly to reduce the riskof the complete loss of information that might oc-cur due to accidental errors (Krakauer and Plotkin,2002).
Moreover, redundancy is found in every levelof granularity of a system.
For instance, in biologi-cal systems we find redundancy in the codons (Lesk,2002), in the genes (Woollard, 2005) and as well inthe proteins (Gatlin, 1974).
A linguistic system isalso not an exception.
There is for example, a num-ber of words with the same meaning (synonyms) inalmost every language of the world.
Similarly, thebasic unit of language, the human speech sounds orthe phonemes, is also expected to exhibit some sortof a redundancy in the information that it encodes.In this work, we attempt to mathematically cap-ture the redundancy observed across the sound(more specifically the consonant) inventories ofthe world?s languages.
For this purpose, wepresent an information theoretic definition of redun-dancy, which is calculated based on the set of fea-tures1 (Trubetzkoy, 1931) that are used to expressthe consonants.
An interesting observation is thatthis quantitative feature-based measure of redun-dancy is almost an invariance over the consonantinventories of the world?s languages.
The observa-tion is important since it can shed enough light onthe organization of the consonant inventories, whichunlike the vowel inventories, lack a complete andholistic explanation.
The invariance of our measureimplies that every inventory tries to be similar interms of the measure, which leads us to argue thatredundancy plays a very important role in shapingthe structure of the consonant inventories.
In orderto validate this argument we determine the possibil-ity of observing such an invariance if the consonantinventories had evolved by random chance.
We findthat the redundancy observed across the randomlygenerated inventories is substantially different fromtheir real counterparts, which leads us to concludethat the invariance is not just ?by-chance?
and themeasure that we define, indeed, largely governs theorganizing principles of the consonant inventories.1In phonology, features are the elements, which distin-guish one phoneme from another.
The features that distinguishthe consonants can be broadly categorized into three differentclasses namely the manner of articulation, the place of articu-lation and phonation.
Manner of articulation specifies how theflow of air takes place in the vocal tract during articulation ofa consonant, whereas place of articulation specifies the activespeech organ and also the place where it acts.
Phonation de-scribes the activity regarding the vibration of the vocal cordsduring the articulation of a consonant.104Interestingly, this redundancy, when measured forthe vowel inventories, does not exhibit any similarinvariance.
This immediately reveals that the prin-ciples that govern the formation of these two typesof inventories are quite different in nature.
Suchan observation is significant since whether or notthese principles are similar/different for the two in-ventories had been a question giving rise to peren-nial debate among the past researchers (Trubet-zkoy, 1969/1939; Lindblom and Maddieson, 1988;Boersma, 1998; Clements, 2004).
A possible rea-son for the observed dichotomy in the behavior ofthe vowel and consonant inventories with respect toredundancy can be as follows: while the organiza-tion of the vowel inventories is known to be gov-erned by a single force - the maximal perceptualcontrast (Jakobson, 1941; Liljencrants and Lind-blom, 1972; de Boer, 2000)), consonant invento-ries are shaped by a complex interplay of severalforces (Mukherjee et al, 2006).
The invariance ofredundancy, perhaps, reflects some sort of an equi-librium that arises from the interaction of these di-vergent forces.The rest of the paper is structured as follows.
Insection 2 we briefly discuss the earlier works in con-nection to the sound inventories and then systemat-ically build up the quantitative definition of redun-dancy from the linguistic theories that are alreadyavailable in the literature.
Section 3 details out thedata source necessary for the experiments, describesthe baseline for the experiments, reports the exper-iments performed, and presents the results obtainedeach time comparing the same with the baseline re-sults.
Finally we conclude in section 4 by summa-rizing our contributions, pointing out some of theimplications of the current work and indicating thepossible future directions.2 Formulation of RedundancyLinguistic research has documented a wide range ofregularities across the sound systems of the world?slanguages.
It has been postulated earlier by func-tional phonologists that such regularities are the con-sequences of certain general principles like maxi-mal perceptual contrast (Liljencrants and Lindblom,1972), which is desirable between the phonemes ofa language for proper perception of each individ-ual phoneme in a noisy environment, ease of artic-ulation (Lindblom and Maddieson, 1988; de Boer,2000), which requires that the sound systems ofall languages are formed of certain universal (andhighly frequent) sounds, and ease of learnability (deBoer, 2000), which is necessary for a speaker tolearn the sounds of a language with minimum ef-fort.
In fact, the organization of the vowel inven-tories (especially those with a smaller size) acrosslanguages has been satisfactorily explained in termsof the single principle of maximal perceptual con-trast (Jakobson, 1941; Liljencrants and Lindblom,1972; de Boer, 2000).On the other hand, in spite of several at-tempts (Lindblom and Maddieson, 1988; Boersma,1998; Clements, 2004) the organization of the con-sonant inventories lacks a satisfactory explanation.However, one of the earliest observations about theconsonant inventories has been that consonants tendto occur in pairs that exhibit strong correlation interms of their features (Trubetzkoy, 1931).
In or-der to explain these trends, feature economy wasproposed as the organizing principle of the con-sonant inventories (Martinet, 1955).
According tothis principle, languages tend to maximize the com-binatorial possibilities of a few distinctive featuresto generate a large number of consonants.
Stateddifferently, a given consonant will have a higherthan expected chance of occurrence in inventories inwhich all of its features have distinctively occurredin other consonants.
The idea is illustrated, with anexample, through Table 1.
Various attempts havebeen made in the past to explain the aforementionedtrends through linguistic insights (Boersma, 1998;Clements, 2004) mainly establishing their statisticalsignificance.
On the contrary, there has been verylittle work pertaining to the quantification of featureeconomy except in (Clements, 2004), where the au-thor defines economy index, which is the ratio of thesize of an inventory to the number of features thatcharacterizes the inventory.
However, this definitiondoes not take into account the complexity that is in-volved in communicating the information about theinventory in terms of its constituent features.Inspired by the aforementioned studies andthe concepts of information theory (Shannon andWeaver, 1949) we try to quantitatively capture theamount of redundancy found across the consonant105plosive voiced voicelessdental /d/ /t/bilabial /b/ /p/Table 1: The table shows four plosives.
If a languagehas in its consonant inventory any three of the fourphonemes listed in this table, then there is a higherthan average chance that it will also have the fourthphoneme of the table in its inventory.inventories in terms of their constituent features.
Letus assume that we want to communicate the infor-mation about an inventory of size N over a transmis-sion channel.
Ideally, one should require logN bitsto do the same (where the logarithm is with respectto base 2).
However, since every natural system isto some extent redundant and languages are no ex-ceptions, the number of bits actually used to encodethe information is more than logN .
If we assumethat the features are boolean in nature, then we cancompute the number of bits used by a language toencode the information about its inventory by mea-suring the entropy as follows.
For an inventory ofsize N let there be pf consonants for which a partic-ular feature f (where f is assumed to be boolean innature) is present and qf other consonants for whichthe same is absent.
Thus the probability that a par-ticular consonant chosen uniformly at random fromthis inventory has the feature f is pfN and the prob-ability that the consonant lacks the feature f is qfN(=1?pfN ).
If F is the set of all features present inthe consonants forming the inventory, then featureentropy FE can be expressed asFE =?f?F(?pfNlogpfN?qfNlogqfN) (1)FE is therefore the measure of the minimum numberof bits that is required to communicate the informa-tion about the entire inventory through the transmis-sion channel.
The lower the value of FE the betterit is in terms of the information transmission over-head.
In order to capture the redundancy involved inthe encoding we define the term redundancy ratio asfollows,RR =FElogN(2)which expresses the excess number of bits that isused by the constituent consonants of the inventoryFigure 1: The process of computing RR for a hypo-thetical inventory.in terms of a ratio.
The process of computing thevalue of RR for a hypothetical consonant inventoryis illustrated in Figure 1.In the following section, we present the experi-mental setup and also report the experiments whichwe perform based on the above definition of redun-dancy.
We subsequently show that redundancy ratiois invariant across the consonant inventories whereasthe same is not true in the case of the vowel invento-ries.3 Experiments and ResultsIn this section we discuss the data source necessaryfor the experiments, describe the baseline for theexperiments, report the experiments performed, andpresent the results obtained each time comparing thesame with the baseline results.3.1 Data SourceMany typological studies (Ladefoged and Mad-dieson, 1996; Lindblom and Maddieson, 1988)of segmental inventories have been carried out inpast on the UCLA Phonological Segment Inven-tory Database (UPSID) (Maddieson, 1984).
UPSIDgathers phonological systems of languages from allover the world, sampling more or less uniformly allthe linguistic families.
In this work we have usedUPSID comprising of 317 languages and 541 con-sonants found across them, for our experiments.1063.2 Redundancy Ratio across the ConsonantInventoriesIn this section we measure the redundancy ratio (de-scribed earlier) of the consonant inventories of thelanguages recorded in UPSID.
Figure 2 shows thescatter-plot of the redundancy ratio RR of each ofthe consonant inventories (y-axis) versus the inven-tory size (x-axis).
The plot immediately reveals thatthe measure (i.e., RR) is almost invariant across theconsonant inventories with respect to the inventorysize.
In fact, we can fit the scatter-plot with a straightline (by means of least square regression), which asdepicted in Figure 2, has a negligible slope (m = ?0.018) and this in turn further confirms the abovefact that RR is an invariant property of the conso-nant inventories with regard to their size.
It is im-portant to mention here that in this experiment wereport the redundancy ratio of all the inventories ofsize less than or equal to 40.
We neglect the inven-tories of the size greater than 40 since they are ex-tremely rare (less than 0.5% of the languages of UP-SID), and therefore, cannot provide us with statis-tically meaningful estimates.
The same conventionhas been followed in all the subsequent experiments.Nevertheless, we have also computed the values ofRR for larger inventories, whereby we have foundthat for an inventory size ?
60 the results are sim-ilar to those reported here.
It is interesting to notethat the largest of the consonant inventories Ga (size= 173) has an RR = 1.9, which is lower than all theother inventories.The aforementioned claim that RR is an invari-ant across consonant inventories can be validated byperforming a standard test of hypothesis.
For thispurpose, we randomly construct language invento-ries, as discussed later, and formulate a null hypoth-esis based on them.Null Hypothesis: The invariance in the distributionof RRs observed across the real consonant invento-ries is also prevalent across the randomly generatedinventories.Having formulated the null hypothesis we nowsystematically attempt to reject the same with a veryhigh probability.
For this purpose we first constructrandom inventories and then perform a two samplet-test (Cohen, 1995) comparing the RRs of the realand the random inventories.
The results show thatFigure 2: The scatter-plot of the redundancy ratioRR of each of the consonant inventories (y-axis)versus the inventory size (x-axis).
The straight line-fit is also depicted by the bold line in the figure.indeed the null hypothesis can be rejected with avery high probability.
We proceed as follows.3.2.1 Construction of Random InventoriesWe employ two different models to generate therandom inventories.
In the first model the invento-ries are filled uniformly at random from the pool of541 consonants.
In the second model we assumethat the distribution of the occurrence of the conso-nants over languages is known a priori.
Note thatin both of these cases, the size of the random in-ventories is same as its real counterpart.
The resultsshow that the distribution of RRs obtained from thesecond model has a closer match with the real in-ventories than that of the first model.
This indicatesthat the occurrence frequency to some extent gov-erns the law of organization of the consonant inven-tories.
The detail of each of the models follow.Model I ?
Purely Random Model: In this modelwe assume that the distribution of the consonant in-ventory size is known a priori.
For each languageinventory L let the size recorded in UPSID be de-noted by sL.
Let there be 317 bins corresponding toeach consonant inventory L. A bin corresponding toan inventory L is packed with sL consonants chosenuniformly at random (without repetition) from thepool of 541 available consonants.
Thus the conso-nant inventories of the 317 languages correspondingto the bins are generated.
The method is summarized107in Algorithm 1.for I = 1 to 317 dofor size = 1 to sL doChoose a consonant c uniformly atrandom (without repetition) from thepool of 541 available consonants;Pack the consonant c in the bincorresponding to the inventory L;endendAlgorithm 1: Algorithm to construct random in-ventories using Model IModel II ?
Occurrence Frequency based RandomModel: For each consonant c let the frequency ofoccurrence in UPSID be denoted by fc.
Let there be317 bins each corresponding to a language in UP-SID.
fc bins are then chosen uniformly at randomand the consonant c is packed into these bins.
Thusthe consonant inventories of the 317 languages cor-responding to the bins are generated.
The entire ideais summarized in Algorithm 2.for each consonant c dofor i = 1 to fc doChoose one of the 317 bins,corresponding to the languages inUPSID, uniformly at random;Pack the consonant c into the bin sochosen if it has not been already packedinto this bin earlier;endendAlgorithm 2: Algorithm to construct random in-ventories using Model II3.2.2 Results Obtained from the RandomModelsIn this section we enumerate the results obtainedby computing the RRs of the randomly generatedinventories using Model I and Model II respectively.We compare the results with those of the real inven-Parameters Real Inv.
Random Inv.Mean 2.51177 3.59331SDV 0.209531 0.475072Parameters Valuest 12.15DF 66p ?
9.289e-17Table 2: The results of the t-test comparing the dis-tribution of RRs for the real and the random invento-ries (obtained through Model I).
SDV: standard devi-ation, t: t-value of the test, DF: degrees of freedom,p: residual uncertainty.tories and in each case show that the null hypothesiscan be rejected with a significantly high probability.Results from Model I: Figure 3 illustrates, for allthe inventories obtained from 100 different simula-tion runs of Algorithm 1, the average redundancyratio exhibited by the inventories of a particular size(y-axis), versus the inventory size (x-axis).
Theterm ?redundancy ratio exhibited by the inventoriesof a particular size?
actually means the following.Let there be n consonant inventories of a particu-lar inventory-size k. The average redundancy ra-tio of the inventories of size k is therefore given by1n?ni=1 RRi where RRi signifies the redundancy ra-tio of the ith inventory of size k. In Figure 3 we alsopresent the same curve for the real consonant inven-tories appearing in UPSID.
In these curves we fur-ther depict the error bars spanning the entire range ofvalues starting from the minimum RR to the max-imum RR for a given inventory size.
The curvesshow that in case of real inventories the error barsspan a very small range as compared to that of therandomly constructed ones.
Moreover, the slopes ofthe curves are also significantly different.
In orderto test whether this difference is significant, we per-form a t-test comparing the distribution of the val-ues of RR that gives rise to such curves for the realand the random inventories.
The results of the testare noted in Table 2.
These statistics clearly showsthat the distribution of RRs for the real and the ran-dom inventories are significantly different in nature.Stated differently, we can reject the null hypothesiswith (100 - 9.29e-15)% confidence.Results from Model II: Figure 4 illustrates, forall the inventories obtained from 100 different simu-108Figure 3: Curves showing the average redundancyratio exhibited by the real as well as the random in-ventories (obtained through Model I) of a particularsize (y-axis), versus the inventory size (x-axis).lation runs of Algorithm 2, the average redundancyratio exhibited by the inventories of a particular size(y-axis), versus the inventory size (x-axis).
The fig-ure shows the same curve for the real consonant in-ventories also.
For each of the curve, the error barsspan the entire range of values starting from the min-imum RR to the maximum RR for a given inventorysize.
It is quite evident from the figure that the errorbars for the curve representing the real inventoriesare smaller than those of the random ones.
The na-ture of the two curves are also different though thedifference is not as pronounced as in case of Model I.This is indicative of the fact that it is not only the oc-currence frequency that governs the organization ofthe consonant inventories and there is a more com-plex phenomenon that results in such an invariantproperty.
In fact, in this case also, the t-test statisticscomparing the distribution of RRs for the real andthe random inventories, reported in Table 3, allowsus to reject the null hypothesis with (100?2.55e?3)%confidence.3.3 Comparison with Vowel InventoriesUntil now we have been looking into the organiza-tional aspects of the consonant inventories.
In thissection we show that this organization is largely dif-ferent from that of the vowel inventories in the sensethat there is no such invariance observed across thevowel inventories unlike that of consonants.
Forthis reason we start by computing the RRs of allFigure 4: Curves showing the average redundancyratio exhibited by the real as well as the random in-ventories (obtained through Model II) of a particularsize (y-axis), versus the inventory size (x-axis).Parameters Real Inv.
Random Inv.Mean 2.51177 2.76679SDV 0.209531 0.228017Parameters Valuest 4.583DF 60p ?
2.552e-05Table 3: The results of the t-test comparing the dis-tribution of RRs for the real and the random inven-tories (obtained through Model II).the vowel inventories appearing in UPSID.
Figure 5shows the scatter plot of the redundancy ratio of eachof the vowel inventories (y-axis) versus the inven-tory size (x-axis).
The plot clearly indicates that themeasure (i.e., RR) is not invariant across the vowelinventories and in fact, the straight line that fits thedistribution has a slope of ?0.14, which is around 10times higher than that of the consonant inventories.Figure 6 illustrates the average redundancy ratioexhibited by the vowel and the consonant inventoriesof a particular size (y-axis), versus the inventory size(x-axis).
The error bars indicating the variability ofRR among the inventories of a fixed size also span amuch larger range for the vowel inventories than forthe consonant inventories.The significance of the difference in the nature ofthe distribution of RRs for the vowel and the conso-nant inventories can be again estimated by perform-ing a t-test.
The null hypothesis in this case is asfollows.109Figure 5: The scatter-plot of the redundancy ratioRR of each of the vowel inventories (y-axis) versusthe inventory size (x-axis).
The straight line-fit isdepicted by the bold line in the figure.Figure 6: Curves showing the average redundancyratio exhibited by the vowel as well as the consonantinventories of a particular size (y-axis), versus theinventory size (x-axis).Null Hypothesis: The nature of the distribution ofRRs for the vowel and the consonant inventories issame.We can now perform the t-test to verify whetherwe can reject the above hypothesis.
Table 4 presentsthe results of the test.
The statistics immediatelyconfirms that the null hypothesis can be rejectedwith 99.932% confidence.Parameters Consonant Inv.
Vowel Inv.Mean 2.51177 2.98797SDV 0.209531 0.726547Parameters Valuest 3.612DF 54p ?
0.000683Table 4: The results of the t-test comparing the dis-tribution of RRs for the consonant and the vowelinventories.4 Conclusions, Discussion and FutureWorkIn this paper we have mathematically captured theredundancy observed across the sound inventories ofthe world?s languages.
We started by systematicallydefining the term redundancy ratio and measuringthe value of the same for the inventories.
Some ofour important findings are,1.
Redundancy ratio is an invariant property of theconsonant inventories with respect to the inventorysize.2.
A more complex phenomenon than merely theoccurrence frequency results in such an invariance.3.
Unlike the consonant inventories, the vowel in-ventories are not indicative of such an invariance.Until now we have concentrated on establishingthe invariance of the redundancy ratio across theconsonant inventories rather than reasoning why itcould have emerged.
One possible way to answerthis question is to look for the error correcting ca-pability of the encoding scheme that nature had em-ployed for characterization of the consonants.
Ide-ally, if redundancy has to be invariant, then this ca-pability should be almost constant.
As a proof ofconcept we randomly select a consonant from in-ventories of different size and compute its hammingdistance from the rest of the consonants in the inven-tory.
Figure 7 shows for a randomly chosen conso-nant c from an inventory of size 10, 15, 20 and 30respectively, the number of the consonants at a par-ticular hamming distance from c (y-axis) versus thehamming distance (x-axis).
The curve clearly indi-cates that majority of the consonants are at a ham-ming distance of 4 from c, which in turn implies thatthe encoding scheme has almost a fixed error cor-recting capability of 1 bit.
This can be the precisereason behind the invariance of the redundancy ra-110Figure 7: Histograms showing the the number of consonants at a particular hamming distance (y-axis), froma randomly chosen consonant c, versus the hamming distance (x-axis).tio.
Initial studies into the vowel inventories showthat for a randomly chosen vowel, its hamming dis-tance from the other vowels in the same inventoryvaries with the inventory size.
In other words, the er-ror correcting capability of a vowel inventory seemsto be dependent on the size of the inventory.We believe that these results are significant as wellas insightful.
Nevertheless, one should be aware ofthe fact that the formulation of RR heavily bankson the set of features that are used to represent thephonemes.
Unfortunately, there is no consensus onthe set of representative features, even though thereare numerous suggestions available in the literature.However, the basic concept of RR and the process ofanalysis presented here is independent of the choiceof the feature set.
In the current study we have usedthe binary features provided in UPSID, which couldbe very well replaced by other representations, in-cluding multi-valued feature systems; we look for-ward to do the same as a part of our future work.ReferencesB.
de Boer.
2000.
Self-organisation in vowel systems.Journal of Phonetics, 28(4), 441?465.P.
Boersma.
1998.
Functional phonology, Doctoral the-sis, University of Amsterdam, The Hague: HollandAcademic Graphics.N.
Clements.
2004.
Features and sound inventories.Symposium on Phonological Theory: Representationsand Architecture, CUNY.P.
R. Cohen.
1995.
Empirical methods for artificial in-telligence, MIT Press, Cambridge.L.
L. Gatlin.
1974.
Conservation of Shannon?s redun-dancy for proteins Jour.
Mol.
Evol., 3, 189?208.R.
Jakobson.
1941.
Kindersprache, aphasie und all-gemeine lautgesetze, Uppsala, Reprinted in SelectedWritings I. Mouton, The Hague, 1962, 328-401.D.
C. Krakauer and J.
B. Plotkin.
2002.
Redundancy,antiredundancy, and the robustness of genomes.
PNAS,99(3), 1405-1409.A.
M. Lesk.
2002.
Introduction to bioinformatics, Ox-ford University Press, New York.P.
Ladefoged and I. Maddieson.
1996.
Sounds of theworld?s languages, Oxford: Blackwell.J.
Liljencrants and B. Lindblom.
1972.
Numerical simu-lation of vowel quality systems: the role of perceptualcontrast.
Language, 48, 839?862.B.
Lindblom and I. Maddieson.
1988.
Phonetic uni-versals in consonant systems.
Language, Speech, andMind, 62?78.I.
Maddieson.
1984.
Patterns of sounds, Cambridge Uni-versity Press, Cambridge.A.
Martinet 1955.
`Economie des changementsphone?tiques, Berne: A. Francke.A.
Mukherjee, M. Choudhury, A. Basu and N. Ganguly.2006.
Modeling the co-occurrence principles of theconsonant inventories: A complex network approach.arXiv:physics/0606132 (preprint).C.
E. Shannon and W. Weaver.
1949.
The mathematicaltheory of information, Urbana: University of IllinoisPress.N.
Trubetzkoy.
1931.
Die phonologischen systeme.TCLP, 4, 96?116.N.
Trubetzkoy.
1969.
Principles of phonology, Berkeley:University of California Press.A.
Woollard.
2005.
Gene duplications and genetic re-dundancy in C. elegans, WormBook.111
