Proceedings of the ACL 2007 Demo and Poster Sessions, pages 93?96,Prague, June 2007. c?2007 Association for Computational LinguisticsGenerating Usable Formats for Metadata andAnnotations in a Large Meeting CorpusAndrei Popescu-Belis and Paula EstrellaISSCO/TIM/ETI, University of Geneva40, bd.
du Pont-d?Arve1211 Geneva 4 - Switzerland{andrei.popescu-belis, paula.estrella}@issco.unige.chAbstractThe AMI Meeting Corpus is now publiclyavailable, including manual annotation filesgenerated in the NXT XML format, butlacking explicit metadata for the 171 meet-ings of the corpus.
To increase the usabilityof this important resource, a representationformat based on relational databases is pro-posed, which maximizes informativeness,simplicity and reusability of the metadataand annotations.
The annotation files areconverted to a tabular format using an eas-ily adaptable XSLT-based mechanism, andtheir consistency is verified in the process.Metadata files are generated directly in theIMDI XML format from implicit informa-tion, and converted to tabular format usinga similar procedure.
The results and toolswill be freely available with the AMI Cor-pus.
Sharing the metadata using the OpenArchives network will contribute to increasethe visibility of the AMI Corpus.1 IntroductionThe AMI Meeting Corpus (Carletta and al., 2006)is one of the largest and most extensively annotateddata sets of multimodal recordings of human interac-tion.
The corpus contains 171 meetings, in English,for a total duration of ca.
100 hours.
The meetingseither follow the remote control design scenario, orare naturally occurring meetings.
In both cases, theyhave between 3 and 5 participants.Perhaps the most valuable resources in this cor-pus are the high quality annotations, which can beused to train and test NLP tools.
The existing anno-tation dimensions include, beside transcripts, forcedtemporal alignment, named entities, topic segmen-tation, dialogue acts, abstractive and extractive sum-maries, as well as hand and head movement and pos-ture.
However, these dimensions as well as the im-plicit metadata for the corpus are difficult to exploitby NLP tools due to their particular coding schemes.This paper describes work on the generation ofannotation and metadata databases in order to in-crease the usability of these components of the AMICorpus.
In the following sections we describe theproblem, present the current solutions and give fu-ture directions.2 Description of the ProblemThe AMI Meeting Corpus is publicly available athttp://corpus.amiproject.org and con-tains the following media files: audio (headset mikesplus lapel, array and mix), video (close up, wideangle), slides capture, whiteboard and paper notes.In addition, all annotations described in Section 1are available in one large bundle.
Annotators fol-lowed dimension-specific guidelines and used theNITE XML Toolkit (NXT) to support their task,generating annotations in NXT format (Carletta andal., 2003; Carletta and Kilgour, 2005).
Using theNXT/XML schema makes the annotations consis-tent along the corpus but more difficult to use with-out the NITE toolkit.
A less developed aspect ofthe corpus is the metadata encoding all auxiliary in-formation about meetings in a more structured andinformative manner.
At the moment, metadata isspread implicitly along the corpus data, for example93it is encoded in the file or folder names or appears tobe split in several resource files.We define here annotations as the time-dependentinformation which is abstracted from the input me-dia, i.e.
?higher-level?
phenomena derived fromlow-level mono- or multi-modal features.
Con-versely, metadata is defined as the static informationabout a meeting that is not directly related to its con-tent (see examples in Section 4).
Therefore, thoughnot necessarily time-dependent, structural informa-tion derived from meeting-related documents wouldconstitute an annotation and not metadata.
Thesedefinitions are not universally accepted, but they al-low us to separate the two types of information.The main goal of the present work is to facilitatethe use of the AMI Corpus metadata and annota-tions as part of the larger objective of automatingthe generation of annotation and metadata databasesto enhance search and browsing of meeting record-ings.
This goal can be achieved by providing plug-and-play databases, which are much easier to ac-cess than NXT files and provide declarative ratherthan implicit metadata.
One of the challenges inthe NXT-to-database conversion is the extraction ofrelevant information, which is done here by solvingNXT pointers and discarding NXT-specific markupto group all information for a phenomenon in onlyone structure or table.The following criteria were important when defin-ing the conversion procedure and database tables:?
Simplicity: the structure of the tables shouldbe easy to understand, and should be close tothe annotation dimensions?ideally one tableper annotation.
Some information can be du-plicated in several tables to make them moreintelligible.
This makes the update of this in-formation more difficult, but as this concerns arecorded corpus, changes are less likely to oc-cur; if such changes do occur, they would firstbe input in the annotation files, from which anew set of tables can easily be generated.?
Reusability: the tools allow anyone to recreatethe tables from the official distribution of theannotation files.
Therefore, if the format of theannotation files or folders changes, or if a dif-ferent format is desired for the tables, it is quiteeasy to change the tools to generate a new ver-sion of the database tables.?
Applicability: the tables are ready to be loadedinto any SQL database, so that they can be im-mediately used by a meeting browser pluggedinto the database.Although we report one solution here, there areother approaches to the same problem relying, forexample, on different database structures using moreor fewer tables to represent this information.3 Annotations: Generation of TablesThe first goal is to convert the NXT files from theAMI Corpus into a compact tabular representation(tab-separated text files), using a simple, declarativeand easily updatable conversion procedure.The conversion principle is the following: foreach type of annotation, which is generally storedin a specific folder of the data distribution, an XSLTstylesheet converts the NXT XML file into a tab-separated text file, possibly using information fromone or more annotations.
The stylesheets resolvemost of the NXT pointers, by including redundantinformation into the tables, in order to speed upqueries by avoiding frequent joins.
A Perl scriptapplies the respective XSLT stylesheet to each an-notation file according to its type, and generates theglobal tab-separated files for each annotation.
Thescript also generates an SQL script that creates a re-lational annotation database and populates it withdata from the tab-separated files.
The Perl scriptalso summarizes the results into a log file named<timestamp>.log.The conversion process can be summarized as fol-lows and can be repeated at will, in particular if theNXT source files are updated:1.
Start with the official NXT release (or otherXML-based format) of the AMI annotations asa reference version.2.
Apply the table generation mechanism toXML annotation files, using XSLT stylesheetscalled by the script, in order to generate tab-ular files (TSV) and a table-creation script(db loader.sql).3.
Create and populate the annotation database.4.
Adapt the XSLT stylesheets as needed for vari-ous annotations and/or table formats.944 Metadata: Generation of Explicit Filesand Conversion to Tabular FormatAs mentioned in Section 2, metadata denotes hereany static information about a meeting, not di-rectly related to its content.
The main metadataitems are: date, time, location, scenario, partic-ipants, participant-related information (codename,age, gender, knowledge of English and other lan-guages), relations to media-files (participants vs. au-dio channels vs. files), and relations to other docu-ments produced during the meeting (slides, individ-ual and whiteboard notes).This important information is spread in manyplaces, and can be found as attributes of a meetingin the annotation files (e.g.
start time) or obtainedby parsing file names (e.g.
audio channel, camera).The relations to media files are gathered from differ-ent resource files: mainly the meetings.xml andparticipants.xml files.
An additional prob-lem in reconstructing such relations (e.g.
files gen-erated by a specific participant) is that informationabout the media resources must be obtained directlyfrom the AMI Corpus distribution web site, sincethe media resources are not listed explicitly in theannotation files.
This implies using different strate-gies to extract the metadata: for example, stylesheetsare the best option to deal with the above-mentionedXML files, while a crawler script is used for HTTPaccess to the distribution site.
However, the solutionadopted for annotations in Section 3 can be reusedwith one major extension and applied to the con-struction of the metadata database.The standard chosen for the explicit meta-data files is the IMDI format, proposed bythe ISLE Meta Data Initiative (Wittenburget al, 2002; Broeder et al, 2004a) (seehttp://www.mpi.nl/IMDI/tools), whichis precisely intended to describe multimediarecordings of dialogues.
This standard provides aflexible and extensive schema to store the definedmetadata either in specific IMDI elements or asadditional key/value pairs.
The metadata generatedfor the AMI Corpus can be explored with the IMDIBC-Browser (Broeder et al, 2004b), a tool thatis freely available and has useful features such assearch or metadata editing.The process of extracting, structuring and storingthe metadata is as follows:1.
Crawl the AMI Corpus website and store re-sulting metadata (related to media files) into anXML auxiliary file.2.
Apply an XSLT stylesheet to the aux-iliary XML file, using also the dis-tribution files meetings.xml andparticipants.xml, to obtain one IMDIfile per meeting.3.
Apply the table generation mechanism to eachIMDI file in order to generate tabular files(TSV) and a table-creation script.4.
Create and populate metadata tables withindatabase.5.
Adapt the XSLT stylesheet as needed for vari-ous table formats.5 Results: Current State and DistributionThe 16 annotation dimensions from the public AMICorpus were processed following the proceduredescribed in Section 3.
The main Perl script,anno-xml2db.pl, applied the 16 stylesheets cor-responding to each annotation dimension, whichgenerated one large tab-separated file each.
Thescript also generated the table-creation SQL scriptdb loader.sql.
The number of lines of each ta-ble, hence the number of ?elementary annotations?,is shown in Table 1.The application of the metadata extraction toolsdescribed in Section 4 generated a first version ofthe explicit metadata for the AMI Corpus, consist-ing of 171 automatically generated IMDI files (oneper meeting).
In addition, 85 manual files werecreated in order to organize the metadata files intoIMDI corpus nodes, which form the skeleton of thecorpus metadata and allow its browsing with theBC-Browser.
The resources and tools for annota-tion/metadata processing will be made soon avail-able on the AMI Corpus website, along with a demoaccess to the BC-Browser.6 Discussion and PerspectivesThe proposed solution for annotation conversion iseasy to understand, as it can be summarized as ?onetable per annotation dimension?.
The tables pre-serve only the relevant information from the NXT95Annotation dimension Nb.
of entrieswords (transcript) 1,207,769named entities 14,230speech segments 69,258topics 1,879dialogue acts 117,043adjacency pairs 26,825abstractive summaries 2,578extractive summaries 19,216abs/ext links 22,101participant summaries 3,409focus 31,271hand gesture 1,453head gesture 36,257argument structures 6,920argumentation relations 4,759discussions 8,637Table 1: Results of annotation conversion; dimen-sions are grouped by conceptual similarity.annotation files, and search is accelerated by avoid-ing repeated joins between tables.The process of metadata extraction and genera-tion is very flexible and the obtained data can be eas-ily stored in different file formats (e.g.
tab-separated,IMDI, XML, etc.)
with no need to repeatedly parsefile names or analyse folders.
Moreover, the ad-vantage of creating IMDI files is that the metadatais compliant with a widely used standard accompa-nied by freely available tools such as the metadatabrowser.
These results will also help disseminatingthe AMI Corpus.As a by-product of the development of annotationand metadata conversion tools, we performed a con-sistency checking and reported a number of to thecorpus administrators.
The automatic processing ofthe entire annotation and metadata set enabled us totest initial hypotheses about annotation structure.In the future we plan to include the AMI Cor-pus metadata in public catalogues, through the Open(Language) Archives Initiatives network (Bird andSimons, 2001), as well as through the IMDI network(Wittenburg et al, 2004).
The metadata repositorywill be harvested by answering the OAI-PMH pro-tocol, and the AMI Corpus website could becomeitself a metadata provider.AcknowledgmentsThe work presented here has been supported bythe Swiss National Science Foundation through theNCCR IM2 on Interactive Multimodal InformationManagement (http://www.im2.ch).
The au-thors would like to thank Jean Carletta, JonathanKilgour and Mae?l Guillemot for their help in access-ing the AMI Corpus.ReferencesSteven Bird and Gary Simons.
2001.
Extending DublinCore metadata to support the description and discoveryof language resources.
Computers and the Humani-ties, 37(4):375?388.Daan Broeder, Thierry Declerck, Laurent Romary,Markus Uneson, Sven Stro?mqvist, and Peter Witten-burg.
2004a.
A large metadata domain of languageresources.
In LREC 2004 (4th Int.
Conf.
on LanguageResources and Evaluation), pages 369?372, Lisbon.Daan Broeder, Peter Wittenburg, and Onno Crasborn.2004b.
Using profiles for IMDI metadata creation.
InLREC 2004 (4th Int.
Conf.
on Language Resources andEvaluation), pages 1317?1320, Lisbon.Jean Carletta and al.
2006.
The AMI Meeting Corpus:A pre-announcement.
In Steve Renals and Samy Ben-gio, editors, Machine Learning for Multimodal Inter-action II, LNCS 3869, pages 28?39.
Springer-Verlag,Berlin/Heidelberg.Jean Carletta and Jonathan Kilgour.
2005.
The NITEXML Toolkit meets the ICSI Meeting Corpus: Import,annotation, and browsing.
In Samy Bengio and Herve?Bourlard, editors, Machine Learning for MultimodalInteraction, LNCS 3361, pages 111?121.
Springer-Verlag, Berlin/Heidelberg.Jean Carletta, Stefan Evert, Ulrich Heid, Jonathan Kil-gour, Judy Robertson, and Holger Voormann.
2003.The NITE XML Toolkit: flexible annotation for multi-modal language data.
In Behavior Research Methods,Instruments, and Computers, special issue on Measur-ing Behavior, 35(3), pages 353?363.Peter Wittenburg, Wim Peters, and Daan Broeder.
2002.Metadata proposals for corpora and lexica.
In LREC2002 (3rd Int.
Conf.
on Language Resources and Eval-uation), pages 1321?1326, Las Palmas.Peter Wittenburg, Daan Broeder, and Paul Buitelaar.2004.
Towards metadata interoperability.
In NLPXML2004 (4th Workshop on NLP and XML at ACL 2004),pages 9?16, Barcelona.96
