Proceedings of the ACL 2007 Demo and Poster Sessions, pages 9?12,Prague, June 2007. c?2007 Association for Computational LinguisticsMultimedia Blog Creation System using Dialoguewith Intelligent RobotAkitoshi Okumura, Takahiro Ikeda, Toshihiro Nishizawa, Shin-ichi Ando,and Fumihiro AdachiCommon Platform Software Research Laboratries,NEC Corporation1753 Shimonumabe Nakahara-ku, Kawasaki-city, Kanagawa 211-8666 JAPAN{a-okumura@bx,nishizawa@bk,s-ando@cw,f-adachi@aj}.jp.nec.comAbstractA multimedia blog creation system is de-scribed that uses Japanese dialogue with anintelligent robot.
Although multimediablogs are increasing in popularity, creatingblogs is not easy for users who lack high-level information literacy skills.
Evenskilled users have to waste time creatingand assigning text descriptions to theirblogs and searching related multimediasuch as images, music, and illustrations.
Toenable effortless and enjoyable creation ofmultimedia blogs, we developed the systemon a prototype robot called PaPeRo.
Videomessages are recorded and converted intotext descriptions by PaPeRo using continu-ous speech recognition.
PaPeRo thensearches for suitable multimedia contentson the internet and databases, and then,based on the search results, chooses appro-priate sympathetic comments by usingnatural language text retrieval.
The re-trieved contents, PaPeRo's comments, andthe video recording on the user's blog isautomatically uploaded and edited.
Thesystem was evaluated by 10 users for creat-ing travel blogs and proved to be helpfulfor both inexperienced and experienced us-ers.
The system enabled easy multimedia-rich blog creation and even provided usersthe pleasure of chatting with PaPeRo.1 IntroductionBlogs have become popular and are used in a vari-ety of settings not only for personal use, but arealso used in the internal communications of or-ganizations.
A multimedia blog, which containsvideos, music, and illustrations, is increasing inpopularity because it enables users to express theirthoughts creatively.
However, users are unsatisfiedwith the current multimedia blog creation methods.Users have three requirements.
First, they needeasier methods to create blogs.
Most multimediablogs are created in one of two ways: 1) A usercreates audio-visual contents by cameras and orsome other recording devices, and then assigns atext description to the contents as indexes.
2) Auser creates a text blog, and then searches for mul-timedia contents on the internet and databases toattach them to his blog.
Both methods requirehigh-level information literacy skills.
Second, theywould like to reduce their blog-creation time.
Evenskilled users have to waste time assigning text de-scription and searching related multimedia con-tents.
Third, they like to be encouraged by otherpeoples?
comments on their blogs.
Although someusers utilize pet-type agents making automaticcomments to their blogs, the agents do not alwayssatisfy them because the comments do not considerusers' moods.
To meet the three requirements, wedeveloped a multimedia blog creation system usingJapanese dialogue with an intelligent robot.
Thesystem was developed on a prototype robot calledPaPeRo (Fujita, 2002), which has the same CPUand memory as a mobile PC.
In this paper, we de-scribe the multimedia blog creation method andthe evaluation results in a practical setting.2 Multimedia Blog Creation2.1 Outline of system processesThe system has four sequential processes: videomessage recording, continuous speech recognition,natural language text retrieval, and blog coordina-9tion.
The first process is activated when a user be-gins a conversation with PaPeRo.
The processstores a video message recorded on PaPeRo's mi-crophones and CCD cameras, and the secondprocess converts the speech contents of the videomessage into a text description to extract importantkeywords.
Then, the third process searches forsuitable multimedia contents on pre-specified websites and databases based on the text description.The first three processes can simplify multimediablog creation and reduce creation costs.
The lastprocess detects a user?s mood, such as delight, an-ger, sorrow, and pleasure, by extracting typicalexpressions from the text description, and thenchooses appropriate sympathetic comments to en-courage the user.
Finally, the last process coordi-nates uploading the recorded video message, thetext description, the extracted keywords, thesearched contents, and the sympathetic commentson the user's blog.2.2 Continuous Speech RecognitionThe system converts the speech content of thevideo message into text descriptions and extractsimportant keywords based on their lexical infor-mation.
The system should, therefore, be equippedwith a large-vocabulary continuous speech recog-nition engine capable of dealing with spontaneousspeech.
This is because blog messages usually con-tain various kinds of words and expressions.
Asthis kind of engine needs a large amount of mem-ory and computational resources, it is generallydifficult to install the engine on small intelligentrobots because the robot requires its own computa-tional resources for their own intelligent operations,such as image recognition and movement control.To solve this problem, we used a compact andscalable large-vocabulary continuous speech rec-ognition framework, which has been shown towork on low-power devices, such as PDAs (Isotaniet al,2005).
The framework achieves compact andhigh-speed processing by the following techniques:- Efficient reduction of Gaussian components us-ing MDL criterion (Shinoda, et al, 2002)- High-speed likelihood calculation using tree-structured probability density functions (Wata-nabe, et al, 1995)- Compaction of search algorithm using lexicalprefix tree and shared usage of calculated lan-guage model scores (Isotani et al, 2005)The framework we developed contained a Japaneselexicon of 50,000 words typically used in travelconversations based on a speech translation system(Isotani, et al, 2002).
We were able to evaluate thedeveloped system by making a travel blog usingJapanese dialogue with PaPeRo.2.3 Natural Language Text RetrievalThe system generates a query sentence from atext description converted using the above-mentioned framework.
As few multimedia contentscontain retrieval keywords, the system matches thequery to text in web pages and documents contain-ing multimedia contents.
The system then choosesmultimedia contents located adjacent to the highly-matched text as retrieval results.
To achieve highprecision for avoiding user interaction with theretrieved results, the system is enhanced using theOkapi BM25 model (Robertson, et al, 1995) bythe following techniques (Ikeda, et al, 2005):(1) Utilization of syntactic relationshipsThe system needs to distinguish illustrationsbased on the context.
For example, an illustrationof fish to be eaten in a restaurant should be differ-ent from that of fish to be seen in an aquarium.
Toachieve this, the system utilizes the syntactic rela-tionships between a pair of words.
The systemproduces a higher score for text containing thesame syntactic relationship as that of a pair ofwords in a query sentence when calculating thematching score.
(2) Distinction of negation and affirmationThe system needs to distinguish negative and af-firmative expressions because their meanings areclearly opposite.
To achieve this, the systemchecks adjuncts attached to the expressions whenmatching a query sentence and text.
(3) Identification of synonymsAs different expressions have the same meaning,the system normalizes expressions by using asynonym dictionary containing 500 words beforematching a query sentence and text.2.4 Blog CoordinationThe system detects users?
mood to choose en-couraging comments.
Users?
moods are sometimesdetected by the expressions used and the manner inwhich the utterances are spoken.
Although speak-ing manner can clearly detect emotions, such aslaughing or crying, some emotions are not alwaysindicated.
Expressions that clearly identify a per-10son?s mood can be indicated (Nakamura, 1993).By studying moods that are easily detectable fromexpressions, including modality, we developed adatabase of 10 moods (delight, anger, sorrow,pleasure, desire, fear, shame, relief, surprise, andnormal) individually linked with 100 kinds of spe-cific expressions.
The database is searched basedon the above-mentioned natural language text re-trieval, which considers syntactic relationships,negative and affirmative responses, and synonyms.The database is also linked to PaPeRo?s responseto convey the most appropriate sympathy for eachmood.
The response includes verbal comments,such as ?I'm happy for you?
and ?It's really toobad?, and gestures, such as dancing and crying de-picted using GIF animation files.
Responses arechosen based on the mood detected.
Finally, thesystem coordinates uploading a recorded videomessage, the text description, the extracted impor-tant keywords, the searched multimedia contents,and PaPeRo?s responses on the user's blog.3 Example Use in Practical SettingWe developed a prototype system for creating atravel blog on PaPeRo, which can retrieve 2000web pages containing 1500 illustrations and 550songs.
PaPeRo is activated by hearing the phrase,?can you help me make my blog please?
?, as listedin Table.
1, and creates a blog, as shown in Figure1.
Figure 1 shows a screen shot of a video messageattached to the blog, a text description convertedby the speech recognition and a button for playingthe video message (A).
Keywords, in this case Yo-semite, Las Vegas, and Roulette, extracted fromthe text description are displayed (B).
Three illus-trations searched based on a query using the textdescription are displayed (C).
A button for playinga searched song is available (D).
PaPeRo?s com-ments, such as ?I hope that happens?, are displayed(E).
The user?s mood is detected as desire from hersaying ?I would like to go there again.?
The com-ment is displayed together with the appropriatePaPeRo?s response.Table 1.
Dialogue example (Excerpt)A user  : Can you help me make my blog please?PaPeRo: Yes, please push the button on my head.A user  : I went to Yosemite for my winter vacation.I played the roulette for the first time in LasVegas.
I would like to go there again.PaPeRo: Ok, now your blog is ready for viewing.BCEAD????????
?Figure 1.
Example of Created Blog4 Evaluation and Discussion4.1  EvaluationThe system needs to be evaluated from two per-spectives.
The first is to individually evaluate theperformance of each process mentioned in section2.
The second is to evaluate total performance, in-cluding the users?
subjective opinions.
As per-formance has been evaluated using different appli-cation systems, such as an automatic speech trans-lation system (Isotani, et al, 2002) and a speech-activated text retrieval system (Ikeda, et al, 2005),we concentrated on evaluating the total perform-ance based on surveying users?
opinions about theblogs they created using the developed system.
Thesurvey results were analyzed in terms of speechrecognition accuracy and users?
blog making ex-perience to improve the system.4.2 Results and DiscussionThe system was evaluated by 10 users.
Half hadblog making experiences, and the other half hadno experience at all.
All users input 20 sentences,and half of the sentences input were on travel is-sues, but the other half were unrelated because weneeded opinions based on the results from lowspeech recognition accuracy.
Users were inter-viewed on their automatically created blogs.Their opinions are listed in Table 2.
The first rowcontains opinions about blogs created based onspeech recognition results that had high word ac-curacy (85-95%).
The second row contains opin-ions that had low accuracy (50-84%).
The thirdrow shows opinions regardless of the accuracy.11The left column contains opinions of users withblog-making experience.
The middle column con-tains opinions of inexperienced users.
The rightcolumn shows opinions regardless of the experi-ence.
The table leads to the following discussion:(1) Expectations for multimedia blog creationUsers were satisfied with the system when highspeech recognition accuracy was used regardlessof their blog-making experience.
Some users ex-pected that the system could promote spread ofmultimedia contents with index keywords, eventhough few multimedia contents currently haveindexes for retrieval.
(2) Robustness and tolerability for low accuracyUsers understood the results when low speechrecognition accuracy was used because the mul-timedia content search is still fairly successfulwhen keywords are accurately recognized, eventhough the total accuracy is not high.
Users canappreciate the funny side of speech recognitionerrors and unexpected multimedia contents fromPaPeRo?s mistakes.
However, as the errors do notalways lead to amusing results, an edit interfaceshould be equipped to improve keywords, illus-trations and the total blog page layout.
(3) More expectations of dialogue with PaPeRoUsers would like to more enjoy themselves withPaPeRo, regardless of the speech recognition ac-curacy.
They expect PaPeRo to give them moreinformation, such as track-back and comments,based on dialogue history.
As PaPeRo stores allthe messages in himself, he has the ability to gen-erate more sophisticated comments and track-back messages with users.
Also, when the dia-logue scenario is improved, he can ask the userssome encouraging questions to make their blogmore interesting and attractive while recordingtheir video messages.5 ConclusionWe developed a multimedia blog creation systemusing Japanese dialogue with an intelligent robot.The system was developed on PaPeRo for creatingtravel blogs and was evaluated by 10 users.
Resultsshowed that the system was effective for inexperi-enced and experienced users.
The system enabledeasy and simple creation of multimedia-rich blogs,while enabling users the pleasure of chatting withPaPeRo.
We plan to improve the system by sup-porting the edit interface and enhancing the dia-logue scenario so that users can enjoy themselveswith more sophisticated and complex interactionwith PaPeRo.Table 2.
Survey of Users?
OpinionsReferencesYoshihiro Fujita.
2002.
Personal Robot PaPeRo.
Jour-nal of Robotics and Mechatronics, 14(1): 60?63.Takahiro Ikeda, at al.
2005.
Speech-Activated Text Re-trieval System for Cellular Phones with Web Brows-ing Capability.
In Proceedings of PACLIC19, 265?272.Ryosuke Isotani, et al 2002.
An Automatic SpeechTranslation System on PDAs for Travel Conversation.In Proceedings of ICMI2002, 211?216.Ryosuke Isotani, et al 2005.
Basic Technologies forSpontaneous Speech Recognition and Its Applica-tions.
In IPSJ-SIGNL, 2005-NL-169, 209?116 (inJapanese).Akira Nakamura (ed.).
1993.
Kanjo hyogen jiten (Emo-tional Expressions Dictionary).
Tokyodo Shuppan,Tokyo (in Japanese).Stephen E. Robertson, et al 1995.
Okapi at TREC-3.
InProceedings of TREC-3, 109?126.Koichi Shinoda and et al 2002.
Efficient Reduction ofGaussian Components Using MDL Criterion forHMM-based Speech Recognition, In Proceedings ofICASSP-2002, 869?872.Takao Watanabe, et al 1995.
High Speed Speech Rec-ognition Using Tree-Structured Probability DensityFunction.
In Proceedings of ICASSP-1995, 556?559.Blog-making experienceExperienced Inexperienced EitherHigh-This systemmakes multi-media con-tents moresearchable onthe internet.-I would like tocreate blogs withPaPeRo.-Easy to createblog only bychatting.-PaPeRo?scomments arenice.Low-Keywords,searched con-tents, and thetotal lay-out ofblogs shouldbe edited.-Searched con-tents are good.-Even unexpect-edly searchedcontents becauseof recognitionerrors are funny.-PaPeRo couldbe allowed forhis mistake.- Unexpectedtexts tempt usersto play thevideo.Speechrecognition accuracyEither-PaPeRo?strack-back iswanted as wellas more dia-logue varia-tion.-PaPeRo shouldtalk on reasonsof his choosing asong.-PaPeRo shouldconsider a his-tory of recordedmessages and hiscomments.12
