Proceedings of the ACL 2007 Demo and Poster Sessions, pages 153?156,Prague, June 2007. c?2007 Association for Computational LinguisticsAutomatic Discovery of Named Entity Variants?
Grammar-driven Approaches to Non-alphabetical TransliterationsChu-Ren HuangInstitute of LinguisticsAcademia Sinica, Taiwanchurenhuang@gmail.comPetr S?imonInstitute of LinguisticsAcademia Sinica, Taiwansim@klubko.netShu-Kai HsiehDoFLALNIU, Taiwanshukai@gmail.comAbstractIdentification of transliterated names is aparticularly difficult task of Named EntityRecognition (NER), especially in the Chi-nese context.
Of all possible variations oftransliterated named entities, the differencebetween PRC and Taiwan is the most preva-lent and most challenging.
In this paper, weintroduce a novel approach to the automaticextraction of diverging transliterations offoreign named entities by bootstrapping co-occurrence statistics from tagged and seg-mented Chinese corpus.
Preliminary experi-ment yields promising results and shows itspotential in NLP applications.1 IntroductionNamed Entity Recognition (NER) is one of the mostdifficult problems in NLP and Document Under-standing.
In the field of Chinese NER, severalapproaches have been proposed to recognize per-sonal names, date/time expressions, monetary andpercentage expressions.
However, the discovery oftransliteration variations has not been well-studiedin Chinese NER.
This is perhaps due to the factthat the transliteration forms in a non-alphabetic lan-guage such as Chinese are opaque and not easy tocompare.
On the hand, there is often more thanone way to transliterate a foreign name.
On theother hand, dialectal difference as well as differ-ent transliteration strategies often lead to the samenamed entity to be transliterated differently in dif-ferent Chinese speaking communities.Corpus Example (Clinton) FrequencyXIN ???
24382CNA ???
150XIN ???
0CNA ???
120842Table 1: Distribution of two transliteration variantsfor ?Clinton?
in two sub-corporaOf all possible variations, the cross-strait differ-ence between PRC and Taiwan is the most prevalentand most challenging.1The main reason may lie inthe lack of suitable corpus.Even given some subcorpora of PRC and Taiwanvariants of Chinese, a simple contrastive approach isstill not possible.
It is because: (1) some variantsmight overlap and (2) there are more variants usedin each corpus due to citations or borrowing cross-strait.
Table 1 illustrates this phenomenon, whereCNA stands for Central News Agency in Taiwan,XIN stands for Xinhua News Agency in PRC, re-spectively.With the availability of Chinese Gigaword Cor-pus (CGC) and Word Sketch Engine (WSE) Tools(Kilgarriff, 2004).
We propose a novel approachtowards discovery of transliteration variants by uti-lizing a full range of grammatical information aug-mented with phonological analysis.Existing literatures on processing of translitera-tion concentrate on the identification of either thetransliterated term or the original term, given knowl-edge of the other (e.g.
(Virga and Khudanpur,1For instance, we found at least 14 transliteration variantsfor Lewinsky,such as ???????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????
and so on.1532003)).
These studies are typically either rule-basedor statistics-based, and specific to a language pairwith a fixed direction (e.g.
(Wan and Verspoor,1998; Jiang et al, 2007)).
To the best of our knowl-edge, ours is the first attempt to discover transliter-ated NE?s without assuming prior knowledge of theentities.
In particular, we propose that transliterationvariants can be discovered by extracting and com-paring terms from similar linguistic context basedon CGC and WSE tools.
This proposal has great po-tential of increasing robustness of future NER workby enabling discovery of new and unknown translit-erated NE?s.Our study shows that resolution of transliteratedNE variations can be fully automated.
This will havestrong and positive implications for cross-lingualand multi-lingual informational retrieval.2 Bootstrapping transliteration pairsThe current study is based on Chinese GigawordCorpus (CGC) (Graff el al., 2005), a large corpuscontains with 1.1 billion Chinese characters contain-ing data from Central News Agency of Taiwan (ca.700 million characters), Xinhua News Agency ofPRC (ca.
400 million characters).
These two sub-corpora represent news dispatches from roughly thesame period of time, i.e.
1990-2002.
Hence the twosub-corpora can be expected to have reasonably par-allel contents for comparative studies.2The premises of our proposal are that transliter-ated NE?s are likely to collocate with other translit-erated NE?s, and that collocates of a pair of translit-eration variants may form contrasting pairs and arepotential variants.
In particular, since the transliter-ation variations that we are interested in are thosebetween PRC and Taiwan Mandarin, we will startwith known contrasting pairs of these two languagevariants and mine potential variant pairs from theircollocates.
These potential variant pairs are thenchecked for their phonological similarity to deter-mine whether they are true variants or not.
In orderto effectively select collocates from specific gram-matical constructions, the Chinese Word Sketch3 isadopted.
In particular, we use the Word Sketch dif-2To facilitate processing, the complete CGC was segmentedand POS tagged using the Academia Sinica segmentation andtagging system (Ma and Huang, 2006).3http://wordsketch.ling.sinica.edu.twference (WSDiff) function to pick the grammaticalcontexts as well as contrasting pairs.
It is importantto bear in mind that Chinese texts are composed ofChinese characters, hence it is impossible to com-pare a transliterated NE with the alphabetical formin its original language.
The following characteris-tics of a transliterated NE?s in CGC are exploited toallow discovery of transliteration variations withoutreferring to original NE.?
frequent co-occurrence of named entitieswithin certain syntagmatic relations ?
namedentities frequently co-occur in relations such asAND or OR and this fact can be used to collectand score mutual predictability.?
foreign named entities are typically transliter-ated phonetically ?
transliterations of the samename entity using different characters can bematched by using simple heuristics to map theirphonological value.?
presence and co-occurrence of named entitiesin a text is dependent on a text type ?
journalis-tic style cumulates many foreign named entitiesin close relations.?
many entities will occur in different domains?
famous person can be mentioned togetherwith someone from politician, musician, artistor athlete.
Thus allows us to make leaps fromone domain to another.There are, however, several problems with thephonological representation of foreign named enti-ties in Chinese.
Due to the nature of Chinese script,NE transliterations can be realized very differently.The following is a summary of several problems thathave to be taken into account:?
word ending: ???
vs.????
?Arafat?
or ???
vs.????
?Mubarak?.
The final conso-nant is not always transliterated.
XIN translit-erations tend to try to represent all phonemesand often add vowels to a final consonant toform a new syllable, whereas CNA transliter-ation tends to be shorter and may simply leaveout a final consonant.?
gender dependent choice of characters: ????Leslie?
vs.???
?Chris?
or ????
vs.
???154?.
Some occidental names are gender neutral.However, the choice of characters in a personalname in Chinese is often gender sensitive.
Sothese names are likely to be transliterated dif-ferently depending on the gender of its referent.?
divergent representations caused by scope oftransliteration, e.g.
both given and surnamevs.
only surname: ????
/ ?????
?VenusWilliams?.?
difference in phonological interpretation: ???
vs.
???
?Rafter?
or???
vs.
???
?Connors?.?
native vs. non-native pronunciation: ???
?vs.
????
?Escudero?
or ???
vs.
???
?Federer?.2.1 Data collectionAll data were collected from Chinese Gigaword Cor-pus using Chinese Sketch Engine with WSDifffunction, which provides side-by-side syntagmaticcomparison of Word Sketches for two differentwords.
WSDiff query for wi and wj returns pat-terns that are common for both words and also pat-terns that are particular for each of them.
Three datasets are thus provided.
We neglect the common pat-terns set and concentrate only on the wordlists spe-cific for each word.2.2 Pairs extractionTransliteration pairs are extracted from the two sets,A and B, collected with WSDiff using default setof seed pairs :- for each seed pair in seeds retrieve WSDiff forand/or relation, thus have pairs of word lists,< Ai, Bi >- for each word wii ?
Ai find best matchingcounterpart(s) wij ?
Bi.
Comparison is doneusing simple phonological rules, viz.
2.3- use newly extracted pairs as new seeds (originalseeds are stored as good pairs and not queriedany more)- loop until there are no new pairsNotice that even though substantial proportion ofborrowing among different communities, there is nomixing in the local context of collocation, whichmeans, local collocation could be the most reliableway to detect language variants with known variants.2.3 Phonological comparisonAll word forms are converted from Chinese scriptinto a phonological representation4 during the pairsextraction phase and then these representations arecompared and similarity scores are given to all paircandidates.A lot of Chinese characters have multiple pro-nunciations and thus multiple representations are de-rived.
In case of multiple pronunciations for certainsyllable, this syllable is commpared to its counter-part from the other set.
E.g.
(?
has three pronunci-ations: ye`, xie?, she`.
When comparing syllables suchas ?
[pei,fei] and ?
[fei], ?
will be represented as[fei].
In case of pairs such as ???
[ye er qin] and???
[ye er qin], which have syllables with multi-ple pronunciations and this multiple representations.However, since these two potential variants sharethe first two characters (out of three), they are con-sidered as variants without superfluous phonologicalchecking.Phonological representations of whole words arethen compared by Levenstein algorithm, which iswidely used to measure the similarity between twostrings.
First, each syllable is split into initial andfinal components: gao:g+ao.
In case of syllableswithout initials like er, an ?
is inserted before thesyllable, thus er:?+er.Before we ran the Levenstein measure, we alsoapply phonological corrections on each pair of can-didate representations.
Rules used for these cor-rections are derived from phonological features ofMandarin Chinese and extended with few rulesfrom observation of the data: (1) For Initials, (a):voiced/voiceless stop contrasts are considered assimilar for initials: g:k, e.g.
?
[gao] (??)
vs.
?
[ke] (??
),d:t, b:p, (b): r:l ?
[rui] (????)
?
[lie](????)
is added to distinctive feature set based onobservation.
(2).
For Finals, (a): pair ei:ui is eval-uated as equivalent.5 (b): oppositions of nasalisedfinal is evaluated as dissimilar.4http://unicode.org/charts/unihan.html5Pinyin representation of phonology of Mandarin Chinesedoes not follow the phonological reality exactly: [ui] = [uei]etc.1552.4 Extraction algorithmOur algorithm will potentially exhaust the wholecorpus, i.e.
find most of the named entities that oc-cur with at least few other names entities, but onlyif seeds are chosen wisely and cover different do-mains6.
However, some domains might not over-lap at all, that is, members of those domains neverappear in the corpus in relation and/or.
And con-currence of members within some domains might besparser than in other, e.g.
politicians tend to be men-tioned together more often than novelists.
Nature ofthe corpus also plays important role.
It is likely toretrieve more and/or related names from journal-istic style.
This is one of the reasons why we choseChinese Gigaword Corpus for this task.3 Experiment and evaluationWe have tested our method on the Chinese Giga-word Second Edition corpus with 11 manually se-lected seeds Apart from the selection of the starterseeds, the whole process is fully automatic.
For thistask we have collected data from syntagmatic rela-tion and/or, which contains words co-occurringfrequently with our seed words.
When we make aquery for peoples names, it is expected that most ofthe retrieved items will also be names, perhaps alsonames of locations, organizations etc.The whole experiment took 505 iterations inwhich 494 pairs were extracted.Our complete experiment with 11 pre-selectedtransliteration pairs as seed took 505 iterations toend.
The iterations identified 494 effective transliter-ation variant pairs (i.e.
those which were not amongthe seeds or pairs identified by earlier iteration.)
Allthe 494 candidate pairs were manually evaluated 445of them are found to be actual contrast pairs, a pre-cision of 90.01%.
In addition, the number of newtransliteration pairs yielded is 4,045%, a very pro-ductive yield for NE discovery.Preliminary results show that this approach iscompetitive against other approaches reported inprevious studies.
Performances of our algorithms iscalculated in terms of precision rate with 90.01%.6The term domain refers to politics,music,sport, film etc.4 Conclusion and Future workIn this paper, we have shown that it is possible toidentify NE?s without having prior knowledge ofthem.
We also showed that, applying WSE to re-strict grammatical context and saliency of colloca-tion, we are able to effectively extract transliterationvariants in a language where transliteration is notexplicitly represented.
We also show that a smallset of seeds is all it needs for the proposed methodto identify hundreds of transliteration variants.
Thisproposed method has important applications in in-formation retrieval and data mining in Chinese data.In the future, we will be experimenting with a dif-ferent set of seeds in a different domain to test therobustness of this approach, as well as to discovertransliteration variants in our fields.
We will also befocusing on more refined phonological analysis.
Inaddition, we would like to explore the possibility ofextending this proposal to other language pairs.ReferencesJiang, L. and M.Zhou and L.f. Chien.
2007.
Named En-tity Discovery based on Transliteration and WWW [InChinese].
Journal of the Chinese Information Process-ing Society.
2007 no.1.
pp.23-29.Graff, David et al 2005.
Chinese Gigaword Second Edi-tion.
Linguistic Data Consortium, Philadelphia.Ma, Wei-Yun and Huang, Chu-Ren.
2006.
Uniform andEffective Tagging of a Heterogeneous Giga-word Cor-pus.
Presented at the 5th International Conference onLanguage Resources and Evaluation (LREC2006), 24-28 May.
Genoa, Italy.Kilgarriff, Adam et al 2004.
The Sketch Engine.
Pro-ceedings of EURALEX 2004.
Lorient, France.Paola Virga and Sanjeev Khudanpur.
2003.
Translit-eration of proper names in cross-lingual informationretrieval.
In Proc.
of the ACL Workshop on Multi-lingual Named Entity Recognition, pp.57-64.Wan, Stephen and Cornelia Verspoor.
1998.
Auto-matic English-Chinese Name Transliteration for De-velopment of Multiple Resources.
In Proc.
of COL-ING/ACL, pp.1352-1356.156
