Proceedings of the ACL 2007 Demo and Poster Sessions, pages 5?8,Prague, June 2007. c?2007 Association for Computational LinguisticsA Translation Aid System with a Stratified Lookup InterfaceTakeshi Abekawa and Kyo KageuraLibrary and Information Science CourseGraduate School of Education,University of Tokyo, Japan{abekawa,kyo}@p.u-tokyo.ac.jpAbstractWe are currently developing a translationaid system specially designed for English-to-Japanese volunteer translators workingmainly online.
In this paper we introducethe stratified reference lookup interface thathas been incorporated into the source textarea of the system, which distinguishes threeuser awareness levels depending on the typeand nature of the reference unit.
The dif-ferent awareness levels are assigned to ref-erence units from a variety of referencesources, according to the criteria of ?com-position?, ?difficulty?, ?speciality?
and ?re-source type?.1 IntroductionA number of translation aid systems have been de-veloped so far (Bowker, 2002; Gow, 2003).
Somesystems such as TRADOS have proved useful forsome translators and translation companies1.
How-ever, volunteer (and in some case freelance) trans-lators do not tend to use these systems (Fulford andZafra, 2004; Fulford, 2001; Kageura et al, 2006),for a variety of reasons: most of them are too expen-sive for volunteer translators2; the available func-tions do not match the translators?
needs and workstyle; volunteer translators are under no pressurefrom clients to use the system, etc.
This does notmean, however, that volunteer translators are satis-fied with their working environment.Against this backdrop, we are developing a trans-lation aid system specially designed for English-to-Japanese volunteer translators working mainly on-line.
This paper introduces the stratified reference1http://www.trados.com/2Omega-T, http://www.omegat.org/lookup/notification interface that has been incorpo-rated into the source text area of the system, whichdistinguishes three user awareness levels dependingon the type and nature of the reference unit.
Weshow how awareness scores are given to the refer-ence units and how these scores are reflected in theway the reference units are displayed.2 Background2.1 Characteristics of target translatorsVolunteer translators involved in translating Englishonline documents into Japanese have a variety ofbackgrounds.
Some are professional translators,some are interested in the topic, some translate as apart of their NGO activities, etc3.
They neverthelessshare a few basic characteristics: (i) they are nativespeakers of Japanese (the target language: TL); (ii)most of them do not have a native-level command inEnglish (the source language: SL); (iii) they do notuse a translation aid system or MT; (iv) they want toreduce the burden involved in the process of transla-tion; (v) they spend a huge amount of time lookingup reference sources; (vi) the smallest basic unit oftranslation is the paragraph and ?at a glance?
read-ability of the SL text is very important.
A translationaid system for these translators should provide en-hanced and easy-to-use reference lookup functionswith quality reference sources.
An important pointexpressed by some translators is that they do notwant a system that makes decisions on their behalf;they want the system to help them make decisionsby making it easier for them to access references.Decision-making by translations in fact constitutesan essential part of the translation process (Munday,2001; Venuti, 2004).3We carried out a questionnaire survey of 15 volunteer trans-lators and interviewed 5 translators.5Some of these characteristics contrast with thoseof professional translators, for instance, in Canadaor in the EU.
They have native command in boththe source and target languages; they went throughuniversity-level training in translation; many of themhave a speciality domain; they work on the principlethat ?time is money?
4.
For this type of translator,facilitating target text input can be important, as isshown in the TransType system (Foster et al, 2002;Macklovitch, 2006).2.2 Reference units and lookup patternsThe major types of reference unit can be sum-marised as follows (Kageura et al, 2006).Ordinary words: Translators are mostly satisfiedwith the information provided in existing dictionar-ies.
Looking up these references is not a huge bur-den, though reducing it would be preferable.Idioms and phrases: Translators are mostly sat-isfied with the information provided in dictionaries.However, the lookup process is onerous and manytranslators worry about failing to recognise idiomsin SL texts (as they can often be interpreted liter-ally), which may lead to mistranslations.Technical terms: Translators are not satisfiedwith the available reference resources 5; they tendto search the Internet directly.
Translators tend to beconcerned with failing to recognise technical terms.Proper names: Translators are not satisfied withthe available reference resources.
They worry moreabout misidentifying the referent.
For the identifica-tion of the referent, they rely on the Internet.3 The translation aid system: QRedit3.1 System overviewThe system we are developing, QRedit, has been de-signed with the following policies: making it lessonerous for translators to do what they are currentlydoing; providing information efficiently to facilitatedecision-making by translators; providing functionsin a manner that matches translators?
behaviour.QRedit operates on the client server model.
It isimplemented by Java and run on Tomcat.
Users ac-4Personal communication with Professor ElliottMacklovitch at the University of Montreal, Canada.5With the advent of Wikipedia, this problem is graduallybecoming less important.cess the system through Web browsers.
The inte-grated editor interface is divided into two main ar-eas: the SL text area and the TL editing area.
Thesescroll synchronically.
To enable translators to main-tain their work rhythm, the keyboard cursor is al-ways bound to the TL editing area (Abekawa andKageura, 2007).3.2 Reference lookup functionsReference lookup functions are activated when anSL text is loaded.
Relevant information (translationcandidates and related information) is displayed inresponse to the user?s mouse action.
In addition tosimple dictionary lookup, the system also providesflexible multi-word unit lookup mechanisms.
Forinstance, it can automatically look up the dictionaryentry ?with one?s tongue in one?s cheek?
for the ex-pression ?He said that with his big fat tongue in hisbig fat cheek?
or ?head screwed on right?
for ?headscrewed on wrong?
(Kanehira et al, 2006).The reference information can be displayed in twoways: a simplified display in a small popup windowthat shows only the translation candidates, and a fulldisplay in a large window that shows the full refer-ence information.
The former is for quick referenceand the latter for in-depth examination.Currently, Sanseido?s Grand Concise English-Japanese Dictionary, Eijiro6, List of technical termsin 23 domains, and Wikipedia are provided as refer-ence sources.4 Stratified reference lookup interfaceIn relation to reference lookup functions, the follow-ing points are of utmost importance:1.
In the process of translation, translators oftencheck multiple reference resources and exam-ine several meanings in SL and expressions inTL.
We define the provision of ?good informa-tion?
for the translator by the system as infor-mation that the translator can use to make hisor her own decisions.2.
The system should show the range of avail-able information in a manner that correspondsto the translator?s reference lookup needs andbehaviour.6http://www.eijiro.jp/6The reference lookup functions can be dividedinto two kinds: (i) those that notify the user of theexistence of the reference unit, and (ii) those thatprovide reference information.
Even if a linguisticunit is registered in reference sources, if the transla-tor is unaware of its existence, (s)he will not lookup the reference, which may result in mistransla-tion.
It is therefore preferable for the system to no-tify the user of the possible reference units.
On theother hand, the richer the reference sources become,the greater the number of candidates for notification,which would reduce the readability of SL texts dra-matically.
It was necessary to resolve this conflictby striking an appropriate balance between the no-tification function and user needs in both referencelookup and the readability of the SL text.4.1 Awareness levelsTo resolve this conflict, we introduced three transla-tor ?awareness levels?:?
Awareness level -2: Linguistic units that thetranslator may not notice, which will lead tomistranslation.
The system always actively no-tifies translators of the existence of this type ofunit, by underlining it.
Idioms and complextechnical terms are natural candidates for thisawareness level.?
Awareness level -1: Linguistic units that trans-lators may be vaguely aware of or may suspectexist and would like to check.
To enable theuser to check their existence easily, the rele-vant units are displayed in bold when the usermoves the cursor over the relevant unit or itsconstituent parts with the mouse.
Compounds,easy idioms and fixed expressions are candi-dates for this level.?
Awareness level 0: Linguistic units that theuser can always identify.
Single words and easycompounds are candidates for this level.In all these cases, the system displays reference in-formation when the user clicks on the relevant unitwith the mouse.4.2 Assignment of awareness levelsThe awareness levels defined above are assigned tothe reference units on the basis of the following fourcharacteristics:C(unit): The compositional nature of the unit.Single words can always be identified in texts, sothe score 0 is assigned to them.
The score -1 is as-signed to compound units.
The score -2 is assignedto idioms and compound units with gaps.D(unit): The difficulty of the linguistic unit for astandard volunteer translator.
For units in the list ofelementary expressions7, the score 1 is given.
Thescore 0 is assigned to words, phrases and idiomslisted in general dictionaries.
The score -1 is as-signed to units registered only in technical term lists.S(unit): The degree of domain dependency of theunit.
The score -1 is assigned to units that belong tothe domain which is specified by the user.
The score0 is assigned to all the other units.
The domain infor-mation is extracted from the domain tags in ordinarydictionaries and technical term lists.
For Wikipediaentries the category information is used.R(unit): The type of reference source to which theunit belongs.
We distinguish between dictionariesand encyclopaedia, corresponding to the user?s in-formation search behaviour.
The score -1 is assignedto units which are registered in the encyclopaedia(currently Wikipedia8 ), because the fact that fac-tual information is registered in existing referencesources implies that there is additional informationrelating to these units which the translator mightbenefit from knowing.
The score 0 is assigned tounits in dictionaries and technical term lists.The overall score A(unit) for the awareness levelof a linguistic unit is calculated by:A(unit) = C(unit)+D(unit)+S(unit)+R(unit).Table 1 shows the summary of awareness levelsand the scores of each characteristic.
For instance, inan the SL sentence ?The airplane took right off.
?, theC(take off) = ?2, D(take off) = 1, S(take off) =0 and R(take off) = 0; hence A(take off) = ?1.A score lower than -2 is normalised to -2, and ascore higher than 0 is normalised to 0, because weassume three awareness levels are convenient for re-alising the corresponding notification interface and7This list consists of 1,654 idioms and phrases taken frommultiple sources for junior high school and high school levelEnglish reference sources published in Japan.8As the English Wikipedia has entries for a majority of or-dinary words, we only assign the score -1 to proper names.7A(unit) : awareness level <= -2 -1 >= 0Mode of alert always emphasis by mouse-over noneScore -2 -1 0 1C(unit) : composition compound unit with gap compound unit single wordD(unit) : difficulty technical term general term elementary termS(unit) : speciality specified domain general domainR(unit) : resource type encyclopaedia dictionaryTable 1: Awareness levels and the scores of each characteristicare optimal from the point of view of the user?ssearch behaviour.
We are currently examining usercustomisation functions.5 ConclusionIn this paper, we introduced a stratified referencelookup interface within a translation aid environ-ment specially designed for English-to-Japanese on-line volunteer translators.
We described the incorpo-ration into the system of different ?awareness levels?for linguistic units registered in multiple referencesources in order to optimise the reference lookup in-terface.
The incorporation of these levels stemmedfrom the basic understanding we arrived at after con-sulting with actual translators that functions shouldfit translators?
actual behaviour.
Although the effec-tiveness of this interface is yet to be fully examinedin real-world situations, the basic concept should beuseful as the idea of awareness level comes fromfeedback by monitors who used the first version ofthe system.Although in this paper we focused on the useof established reference resources, we are currentlydeveloping (i) a mechanism for recycling relevantexisting documents, (ii) dynamic lookup of propername transliteration on the Internet, and (iii) dy-namic detection of translation candidates for com-plex technical terms.
How to fully integrate thesefunctions into the system is our next challenge.ReferencesTakeshi Abekawa and Kyo Kageura.
2007.
Qredit:An integrated editor system to support online volun-teer translators.
In Proceedings of Digital Humanities2007 Poster/Demos.Lynne Bowker.
2002.
Computer-aided Translation Tech-nology: A Practical Introduction.
Ottawa: Universityof Ottawa Press.George Foster, Philippe Langlais, and Guy Lapalme.2002.
User-friendly text prediction for translators.In Proceedings of the 2002 Conference on EmpiricalMethods in Natural Language Processing, pages 148?155.Heather Fulford and Joaqu?
?n Granell Zafra.
2004.
Theuptake of online tools and web-based language re-sources by freelance translators.
In Proceedings ofthe Second International Workshop on Language Re-sources for Translation Work, Research and Training,pages 37?44.Heather Fulford.
2001.
Translation tools: An ex-ploratory study of their adoption by UK freelancetranslators.
Machine Translation, 16(3):219?232.Francie Gow.
2003.
Metrics for Evaluating TranslationMemory Software.
PhD thesis, Ottawa: University ofOttawa.Kyo Kageura, Satoshi Sato, Koichi Takeuchi, TakehitoUtsuro, Keita Tsuji, and Teruo Koyama.
2006.
Im-proving the usability of language reference tools fortranslators.
In Proceedings of the 10th of AnnualMeeting of Japanese Natural Language Processing,pages 707?710.Kou Kanehira, Kazuki Hirao, Koichi Takeuchi, and KyoKageura.
2006.
Development of a flexible idiomlookup system with variation rules.
In Proceedingsof the 10th Annual Meeting of Japanese Natural Lan-guage Processing, pages 711?714.Elliott Macklovitch.
2006.
Transtype2: the last word.In Proceedings of the Fifth International Conferenceon Language Resources and Evaluation (LREC2006),pages 167?172.Jeremy Munday.
2001.
Introducing Translation Studies:Theories and Applications.
London: Routledge.Lawrence Venuti.
2004.
The Translation Studies Reader.London: Routledge, second edition.8
