Proceedings of the ACL 2007 Demo and Poster Sessions, pages 165?168,Prague, June 2007. c?2007 Association for Computational LinguisticsExtracting Hypernym Pairs from the WebErik Tjong Kim SangISLA, Informatics InstituteUniversity of Amsterdamerikt@science.uva.nlAbstractWe apply pattern-based methods for collect-ing hypernym relations from the web.
Wecompare our approach with hypernym ex-traction from morphological clues and fromlarge text corpora.
We show that the abun-dance of available data on the web enablesobtaining good results with relatively unso-phisticated techniques.1 IntroductionWordNet is a key lexical resource for natural lan-guage applications.
However its coverage (currently155k synsets for the English WordNet 2.0) is farfrom complete.
For languages other than English,the available WordNets are considerably smaller,like for Dutch with a 44k synset WordNet.
Here, thelack of coverage creates bigger problems.
A man-ual extension of the WordNets is costly.
Currently,there is a lot of interest in automatic techniques forupdating and extending taxonomies like WordNet.Hearst (1992) was the first to apply fixed syn-tactic patterns like such NP as NP for extractinghypernym-hyponym pairs.
Carballo (1999) builtnoun hierarchies from evidence collected from con-junctions.
Pantel, Ravichandran and Hovy (2004)learned syntactic patterns for identifying hypernymrelations and combined these with clusters builtfrom co-occurrence information.
Recently, Snow,Jurafsky and Ng (2005) generated tens of thousandsof hypernym patterns and combined these with nounclusters to generate high-precision suggestions forunknown noun insertion into WordNet (Snow et al,2006).
The previously mentioned papers deal withEnglish.
Little work has been done for other lan-guages.
IJzereef (2004) used fixed patterns to ex-tract Dutch hypernyms from text and encyclopedias.Van der Plas and Bouma (2005) employed noun dis-tribution characteristics for extending the Dutch partof EuroWordNet.In earlier work, different techniques have been ap-plied to large and very large text corpora.
Today,the web contains more data than the largest availabletext corpus.
For this reason, we are interested in em-ploying the web for the extraction of hypernym re-lations.
We are especially curious about whether thesize of the web allows to achieve meaningful resultswith basic extraction techniques.In section two we introduce the task, hypernymextraction.
Section three presents the results of ourweb extraction work as well as a comparison withsimilar work with large text corpora.
Section fourconcludes the paper.2 Task and ApproachWe examine techniques for extending WordNets.
Inthis section we describe the relation we focus on,introduce our evaluation approach and explain thequery format used for obtaining web results.2.1 TaskWe concentrate on a particular semantic relation:hypernymy.
One term is a hypernym of another ifits meaning both covers the meaning of the secondterm and is broader.
For example, furniture is a hy-pernym of table.
The opposite term for hypernym ishyponym.
So table is a hyponym of furniture.
Hy-pernymy is a transitive relation.
If term A is a hyper-nym of term B while term B is a hypernym of term165C then term A is also a hypernym of term C.In WordNets, hypernym relations are defined be-tween senses of words (synsets).
The Dutch Word-Net (Vossen, 1998) contains 659,284 of such hy-pernym noun pairs of which 100,268 are immedi-ate links and 559,016 are inherited by transitivity.More importantly, the resource contains hypernyminformation for 45,979 different nouns.
A test witha Dutch newspaper text revealed that the WordNetonly covered about two-thirds of the noun lemmasin the newspaper (among the missing words weree-mail, euro and provider).
Proper names pose aneven larger problem: the Dutch WordNet only con-tains 1608 words that start with a capital character.2.2 Collecting evidenceIn order to find evidence for the existence of hyper-nym relations between words, we search the web forfixed patterns like H such as A, B and C. FollowingSnow et al (2006), we derive two types of evidencefrom these patterns:?
H is a hypernym of A, B and C?
A, B and C are siblings of each otherHere, sibling refers to the relative position of thewords in the hypernymy tree.
Two words are sib-lings of each other if they share a parent.We compute a hypernym evidence score S(h,w)for each candidate hypernym h for word w. It is thesum of the normalized evidence for the hypernymyrelation between h and w, and the evidence for sib-ling relations between w and known hyponyms s ofh:S(h,w) = fhw?x fxw+?sgsw?y gywwhere fhw is the frequency of patterns that predictthat h is a hypernym of w, gsw is the frequency ofpatterns that predict that s is a sibling of w, and xand y are arbitrary words from the WordNet.
Foreach word w, we select the candidate hypernym hwith the largest score S(h,w).For each hyponym, we only consider evidencefor hypernyms and siblings.
We have experimentedwith different scoring schemes, for example by in-cluding evidence from hypernyms of hypernyms andremote siblings, but found this basic scoring schemeto perform best.2.3 EvaluationWe use the Dutch part of EuroWordNet (DWN)(Vossen, 1998) for evaluation of our hypernym ex-traction methods.
Hypernym-hyponym pairs that arepresent in the lexicon are assumed to be correct.
Inorder to have access to negative examples, we makethe same assumption as Snow et al (2005): the hy-pernymy relations in the WordNets are complete forthe terms that they contain.
This means that if twowords are present in the lexicon without the targetrelation being specified between them, then we as-sume that this relation does not hold between them.The presence of positive and negative examples al-lows for an automatic evaluation in which precision,recall and F values are computed.We do not require our search method to find theexact position of a target word in the hypernymytree.
Instead, we are satisfied with any ancestor.
Inorder to rule out identification methods which sim-ply return the top node of the hierarchy for all words,we also measure the distance between the assignedhypernym and the target word.
The ideal distance isone, which would occur if the suggested ancestor isa parent.
Grandparents are associated with distancetwo and so on.2.4 Composing web queriesIn order to collect evidence for lexical relations, wesearch the web for lexical patterns.
When workingwith a fixed corpus on disk, an exhaustive search canbe performed.
For web search, however, this is notpossible.
Instead, we rely on acquiring interestinglexical patterns from text snippets returned for spe-cific queries.
The format of the queries has beenbased on three considerations.First, a general query like such as is insufficientfor obtaining much interesting information.
Mostweb search engines impose a limit on the numberof results returned from a query (for example 1000),which limits the opportunities for assessing the per-formance of such a general pattern.
In order to ob-tain useful information, the query needs to be morespecific.
For the pattern such as, we have two op-tions: adding the hypernym, which gives hypernymsuch as, or adding the hyponym, which results insuch as hyponym.Both extensions of the general pattern have their166limitations.
A pattern that includes the hypernymmay fail to generate enough useful information if thehypernym has many hyponyms.
And patterns withhyponyms require more queries than patterns withhypernyms (one per child rather than one per par-ent).
We chose to include hyponyms in the patterns.This approach models the real world task in whichone is looking for the meaning of an unknown entity.The final consideration regards which hyponymsto use in the queries.
Our focus is on evaluating theapproach via comparison with an existing WordNet.Rather than submitting queries for all 45,979 nounsin the lexical resource to the web search engine, wewill use a random sample of nouns.3 Hypernym extractionWe describe our web extraction work and comparethe results with our earlier work with extraction froma text corpus and hypernym prediction from mor-phological information.3.1 Earlier workIn earlier work (Tjong Kim Sang and Hofmann,2007), we have applied different methods for ob-taining hypernym candidates for words.
First,we extracted hypernyms from a large text corpus(300Mwords) following the approach of Snow etal.
(2006).
We collected 16728 different contextsin which hypernym-hyponym pairs were found andevaluated individual context patterns as well as acombination which made use of Bayesian LogisticRegression.
We also examined a single pattern pre-dicting only sibling relations: A en(and) B.Additionally, we have applied a corpus-indepen-dent morphological approach which takes advantageof the fact that in Dutch, compound words oftenhave the head in the final position (like blackbird inEnglish).
The head is a good hypernym candidatefor the compound and therefore long words whichend with a legal Dutch word often have this suffix ashypernym (Sabou et al, 2005).The results of the approaches can be found in Ta-ble 1.
The corpus approaches achieve reasonableprecision rates.
The recall scores are low becausewe attempt to retrieve a hypernym for all nouns inthe WordNet.
Surprisingly enough the basic mor-phological approach outperforms all corpus meth-Method Prec.
Recall F Dist.corpus: N zoals N 0.22 0.0068 0.013 2.01corpus: combined 0.36 0.020 0.038 2.86corpus: N en N 0.31 0.14 0.19 1.98morphological approach 0.54 0.33 0.41 1.19Table 1: Performances measured in our earlier work(Tjong Kim Sang and Hofmann, 2007) with a mor-phological approach and patterns applied to a textcorpus (single hypernym pattern, combined hyper-nym patterns and single conjunctive pattern).
Pre-dicting valid suffixes of words as their hypernyms,outperforms the corpus approaches.ods, both with respect to precision and recall.3.2 Extraction from the webFor our web extraction work, we used the same in-dividual extraction patterns as in the corpus work:zoals (such as) and en (and), but not the com-bined hypernym patterns because the expected per-formance did not make up for the time complexityinvolved.
We added randomly selected candidatehyponyms to the queries to improve the chance toretrieve interesting information.This approach worked well.
As Table 2 shows, forboth patterns the recall score improved in compari-son with the corpus experiments.
Additionally, thesingle web hypernym pattern zoals outperformed thecombination of corpus hypernym patterns with re-spect to recall and distance.
Again, the conjunctivepattern outperformed the hypernym pattern.
We as-sume that the frequency of the two patterns plays animportant role (the frequency of pages with the con-junctive pattern is five times the frequency of pageswith zoals).Finally, we combined word-internal informationwith the conjunctive pattern approach by adding themorphological candidates to the web evidence be-fore computing hypernym pair scores.
This ap-proach achieved the highest recall score at onlyslight precision loss (Table 2).3.3 Error analysisWe have inspected the output of the conjunctive webextraction with word-internal information.
For thispurpose we have selected the ten most frequent hy-pernym pairs (Table 3), the ten least frequent andthe ten pairs exactly between these two groups.
40%167Method Prec.
Recall F Dist.web: N zoals N 0.23 0.089 0.13 2.06web: N en N 0.39 0.31 0.35 2.04morphological approach 0.54 0.33 0.41 1.19web: en + morphology 0.48 0.45 0.46 1.64Table 2: Performances measured in the two web ex-periments and a combination of the best web ap-proach with the morphological approach.
The con-junctive web pattern N en N rates best, because of itshigh frequency.
The recall rate can be improved bysupplying the best web approach with word-internalinformation.of the pairs were correct, 47% incorrect and 13%were plausible but contained relations that were notpresent in the reference WordNet.
In the centergroup of ten pairs all errors are caused by the mor-phological approach while all other errors originatefrom the web extraction method.4 Concluding remarksThe contributions of this paper are two-fold.
First,we show that the large quantity of available web dataallows basic patterns to perform better on hyper-nym extraction than a combination of extraction pat-terns applied to a large corpus.
Second, we demon-strate that the performance of web extraction can beimproved by combining its results with those of acorpus-independent morphological approach.The described approach is already being appliedin a project for extending the coverage of the DutchWordNet.
However, we remain interested in obtain-ing a better performance levels especially in higherrecall scores.
There are some suggestions on howwe could achieve this.
First, our present selectionmethod, which ignores all but the first hypernymsuggestion, is quite strict.
We expect that the lower-ranked hypernyms include a reasonable number ofcorrect candidates as well.
Second, a combinationof web patterns most likely outperforms individualpatterns.
Obtaining results for many different webpattens will be a challenge given the restrictions onthe number of web queries we can currently use.ReferencesSharon A. Caraballo.
1999.
Automatic construction ofa hypernym-labeled noun hierarchy from text.
In Pro-+/- score hyponym hypernym- 912 buffel predator+ 762 trui kledingstuk?
715 motorfiets motorrijtuig+ 697 kruidnagel specerij- 680 concours samenzijn+ 676 koopwoning woongelegenheid+ 672 inspecteur opziener?
660 roller werktuig?
654 rente verdiensten?
650 cluster afd.Table 3: Example output of the the conjunctive websystem with word-internal information.
Of the tenmost frequent pairs, four are correct (+).
Four othersare plausible but are missing in the WordNet (?
).ceedings of ACL-99.
Maryland, USA.Marti A. Hearst.
1992.
Automatic acquisition of hy-ponyms from large text corpora.
In Proceedings ofACL-92.
Newark, Delaware, USA.Leonie IJzereef.
2004.
Automatische extractie van hy-perniemrelaties uit grote tekstcorpora.
MSc thesis,University of Groningen.Patrick Pantel, Deepak Ravichandran, and Eduard Hovy.2004.
Towards terascale knowledge acquisition.In Proceedings of COLING 2004, pages 771?777.Geneva, Switzerland.Lonneke van der Plas and Gosse Bouma.
2005.
Auto-matic acquisition of lexico-semantic knowledge for qa.In Proceedings of the IJCNLP Workshop on Ontolo-gies and Lexical Resources.
Jeju Island, Korea.Marta Sabou, Chris Wroe, Carole Goble, and GiladMishne.
2005.
Learning domain ontologies for webservice descriptions: an experiment in bioinformat-ics.
In 14th International World Wide Web Conference(WWW2005).
Chiba, Japan.Rion Snow, Daniel Jurafsky, and Andrew Y. Ng.
2005.Learning syntactic patterns for automatic hypernymdiscovery.
In NIPS 2005.
Vancouver, Canada.Rion Snow, Daniel Jurafsky, and Andrew Y. Ng.
2006.Semantic taxonomy induction from heterogenous evi-dence.
In Proceedings of COLING/ACL 2006.
Sydney,Australia.Erik Tjong Kim Sang and Katja Hofmann.
2007.
Au-tomatic extraction of dutch hypernym-hyponym pairs.In Proceedings of the Seventeenth Computational Lin-guistics in the Netherlands.
Katholieke UniversiteitLeuven, Belgium.Piek Vossen.
1998.
EuroWordNet: A MultilingualDatabase with Lexical Semantic Networks.
KluwerAcademic Publisher.168
