Proceedings of the ACL 2007 Demo and Poster Sessions, pages 141?144,Prague, June 2007. c?2007 Association for Computational LinguisticsExtracting Word Sets with Non-Taxonomical RelationEiko Yamamoto Hitoshi IsaharaComputational Linguistics GroupNational Institute of Information and Communications Technology3-5 Hikaridai, Seika-cho, Soraku-gun, Kyoto 619-0289, Japan{eiko, isahara}@nict.go.jpAbstractAt least two kinds of relations exist amongrelated words: taxonomical relations andthematic relations.
Both relations identifyrelated words useful to language under-standing and generation, information re-trieval, and so on.
However, althoughwords with taxonomical relations are easyto identify from linguistic resources such asdictionaries and thesauri, words with the-matic relations are difficult to identify be-cause they are rarely maintained in linguis-tic resources.
In this paper, we sought toextract thematically (non-taxonomically)related word sets among words in docu-ments by employing case-marking particlesderived from syntactic analysis.
We thenverified the usefulness of word sets withnon-taxonomical relation that seems to be athematic relation for information retrieval.1.
IntroductionRelated word sets are useful linguistic resourcesfor language understanding and generation, infor-mation retrieval, and so on.
In previous research onnatural language processing, many methodologiesfor extracting various relations from corpora havebeen developed, such as the ?is-a?
relation (Hearst1992), ?part-of?
relation (Berland and Charniak1999), causal relation (Girju 2003), and entailmentrelation (Geffet and Dagan 2005).Related words can be used to support retrieval inorder to lead users to high-quality information.One simple method is to provide additional wordsrelated to the key words users have input, such asan input support function within the Google searchengine.
What kind of relation between the keywords that have been input and the additional wordis effective for information retrieval?As for the relations among words, at least twokinds of relations exist: the taxonomical relationand the thematic relation.
The former is a relationrepresenting the physical resemblance among ob-jects, which is typically a semantic relation such asa hierarchal, synonymic, or antonymic relation;the latter is a relation between objects through athematic scene, such as ?milk?
and ?cow?
as recol-lected in the scene ?milking a cow,?
and ?milk?and ?baby,?
as recollected in the scene ?givingbaby milk,?
which include causal relation and en-tailment relation.
Wisniewski and Bassok (1999)showed that both relations are important in recog-nizing those objects.
However, while taxonomicalrelations are comparatively easy to identify fromlinguistic resources such as dictionaries andthesauri, thematic relations are difficult to identifybecause they are rarely maintained in linguisticresources.In this paper, we sought to extract word setswith a thematic relation from documents by em-ploying case-marking particles derived from syn-tactic analysis.
We then verified the usefulness ofword sets with non-taxonomical relation that seemsto be a thematic relation for information retrieval.2.
MethodIn order to derive word sets that direct users toobtain information, we applied a method based onthe Complementary Similarity Measure (CSM),which can determine a relation between two wordsin a corpus by estimating inclusive relationsbetween two vectors representing each appearancepattern for each words (Yamamoto et al 2005).141We first extracted word pairs having an inclu-sive relation between the words by calculating theCSM values.
Extracted word pairs are expressedby a tuple <wi, wj>, where CSM(Vi, Vj) is greaterthan CSM(Vj, Vi) when words wi and wj have eachappearance pattern represented by each binary vec-tor Vi and Vj.
Then, we connected word pairs withCSM values greater than a certain threshold andconstructed word sets.
A feature of the CSM-basedmethod is that it can extract not only pairs of re-lated words but also sets of related words becauseit connects tuples consistently.Suppose we have <A, B>, <B, C>, <Z, B>, <C,D>, <C, E>, and <C, F> in the order of their CSMvalues, which are greater than the threshold.
Forexample, let <B, C> be an initial word set {B, C}.First, we find the tuple with the greatest CSMvalue among the tuples in which the word C at thetail of the current word set is the left word, andconnect the right word behind C. In this example,word ?D?
is connected to {B, C} because <C, D>has the greatest CSM value among the three tuples<C, D>, <C, E>, and <C, F>, making the currentword set {B, C, D}.
This process is repeated untilno tuples exist.
Next, we find the tuple with thegreatest CSM value among the tuples in which theword B at the head of the current word set is theright word, and connect the left word before B.This process is repeated until no tuples exist.
Inthis example, we obtain the word set {A, B, C, D}.Finally, we removed ones with a taxonomicalrelation by using thesaurus.
The rest of the wordsets have a non-taxonomical relation ?
includinga thematic relation ?
among the words.
We thenextracted those word sets that do not agree with thethesaurus as word sets with a thematic relation.3.
ExperimentIn our experiment, we used domain-specific Japa-nese documents within the medical domain(225,402 sentences, 10,144 pages, 37MB) gatheredfrom the Web pages of a medical school and the2005 Medical Subject Headings (MeSH) thesau-rus 1 .
Recently, there has been a study on queryexpansion with this thesaurus as domain informa-tion (Friberg 2007).1 The U.S. National Library of Medicine created, maintains,and provides the MeSH?
thesaurus.We extracted word sets by utilizing inclusive re-lations of the appearance pattern between wordsbased on a modified/modifier relationship indocuments.
The Japanese language has case-marking particles that indicate the semantic rela-tion between two elements in a dependency rela-tion.
Then, we collected from documents depend-ency relations matching the following five pat-terns; ?A <no (of)> B,?
?P <wo (object)> V,?
?Q<ga (subject)> V,?
?R <ni (dative)> V,?
and ?S<ha (topic)> V,?
where A, B, P, Q, R, and S arenouns, V is a verb, and <X> is a case-marking par-ticle.
From such collected dependency relations,we compiled the following types of experimentaldata; NN-data based on co-occurrence betweennouns for each sentence, NV-data based on a de-pendency relation between noun and verb for eachcase-marking particle <wo>, <ga>, <ni>, and <ha>,and SO-data based on a collocation between sub-ject and object that depends on the same verb Vas the subject.
These data are represented with abinary vector which corresponds to the appearancepattern of a noun and these vectors are used as ar-guments of CSM.We translated descriptors in the MeSH thesaurusinto Japanese and used them as Japanese medicalterms.
The number of terms appearing in this ex-periment is 2,557 among them.
We constructedword sets consisting of these medical terms.
Then,we chose 977 word sets consisting of three or moreterms from them, and removed word sets with ataxonomical relation from them with the MeSHthesaurus in order to obtain the rest 847 word setsas word sets with a thematic relation.4.
VerificationIn verifying the capability of our word sets to re-trieve Web pages, we examined whether theycould help limit the search results to more informa-tive Web pages with Google as a search engine.We assume that addition of suitable key wordsto the query reduces the number of pages retrievedand the remaining pages are informative pages.Based on this assumption, we examined the de-crease of the retrieved pages by additional keywords and the contents of the retrieved pages inorder to verify the availability of our word sets.Among 847 word sets, we used 294 word sets inwhich one of the terms is classified into one cate-gory and the rest are classified into another.142ovary - spleen - palpation (NN)variation - cross reactions - outbreaks - secretion (Wo)bleeding - pyrexia - hematuria - consciousness disorder- vertigo - high blood pressure (Ga)space flight - insemination - immunity (Ni)cough - fetus- bronchiolitis obliterans organizing pneumonia (Ha)latency period - erythrocyte - hepatic cell (SO)Figure 1.
Examples of word sets used to verify.Figure 1 shows examples of the word sets,where terms in a different category are underlined.In retrieving Web pages for verification, we in-put the terms composed of these word sets into thesearch engine.
We created three types of searchterms from the word set we extracted.
Suppose theextracted word set is {X1, ..., Xn, Y}, where Xi isclassified into one category and Y is classified intoanother.
The first type uses all terms except the oneclassified into a category different from the others:{X1, ..., Xn} removing Y.
The second type uses allterms except the one in the same category as therest: {X1, ..., Xk-1, Xk+1, ..., Xn} removing Xk fromType 1.
In our experiment, we removed the termXk with the highest or lowest frequency among Xi.The third type uses terms in Type 2 and Y: {X1, ...,Xk-1, Xk+1, ..., Xn, Y}.In other words, when we consider the terms inType 2 as base key words, the terms in Type 1 arekey words with the addition of one term having thehighest or lowest frequency among the terms in thesame category; i.e., the additional term has a fea-ture related to frequency in the documents and istaxonomically related to other terms.
The terms inType 3 are key words with the addition of one termin a category different from those of the othercomponent terms; i.e., the additional term seems tobe thematically related ?
at least non-taxonomically related ?
to other terms.First, we quantitatively compared the retrievalresults.
We used the estimated number of pagesretrieved by Google?s search engine.
Suppose thatwe first input Type 2 as key words into Google,did not satisfy the result extracted, and added oneword to the previous key words.
We then sought todetermine whether to use Type 1 or Type 3 to ob-tain more suitable results.
The results are shown inFigures 2 and 3, which include the results for thehighest frequency and the lowest frequency, re-spectively.
In these figures, the horizontal axis isthe number of pages retrieved with Type 2 and thevertical axis is the number of pages retrieved when1101001000100001000001000000100000001000000001 10 100 1000 10000 100000 1000000 10000000 100000000 1000000000Number of Web pages retrieved with Type2 (base key words)NumberofWebpagesretrievedwhenatermisaddedtoType2Type3: With additional term in a different category Type1: With additional term in same categoryFigure 2.
Fluctuation of number of pages retrieved(with the high frequency term).NV Type of Data NNWo Ga Ni HaWord sets for verification 175 43 23 13 26Cases in which Type 3defeated Type 1 in retrieval 108 37 15 12 18Table 1.
Number of cases in which Type 3 de-feated Type 1 with the high frequency term.a certain term is added to Type 2.
The circles (?
)show the retrieval results with additional key wordrelated taxonomically (Type 1).
The crosses (?
)show the results with additional key word relatednon-taxonomically (Type 3).
The diagonal lineshows that adding one term to the base key wordsdoes not affect the number of Web pages retrieved.In Figure 2, most crosses fall further below theline.
This graph indicates that when searching byGoogle, adding a search term related non-taxonomically tends to make a bigger differencethan adding a term related taxonomically and withhigh frequency.
This means that adding a term re-lated non-taxonomically to the other terms is cru-cial to retrieving informative pages; that is, suchterms are informative terms themselves.
Table 1shows the number of cases in which term in differ-ent category decreases the number of hit pagesmore than high frequency term.
By this table, wefound that most of the additional terms with highfrequency contributed less than additional termsrelated non-taxonomically to decreasing the num-ber of Web pages retrieved.
This means that, incomparison to the high frequency terms, whichmight not be so informative in themselves, theterms in the other category ?
related non-taxonomically ?
are effective for retrieving usefulWeb pages.In Figure 3, most circles fall further below theline, in contrast to Figure 2.
This indicates that143Figure 3.
Fluctuation of number of pages retrieved(with the low frequency term).NV Type of Data NNWo Ga Ni HaWord sets for verification 175 43 23 13 26Cases in which Type 3defeated Type 1 in retrieval 61 18 7 6 13Table 2.
Number of cases in which Type 3 de-feated Type 1 with the low frequency term.adding a term related taxonomically and with lowfrequency tends to make a bigger difference thanadding a term with high frequency.
Certainly, addi-tional terms with low frequency would be informa-tive terms, even though they are related taxonomi-cally, because they may be rare terms on the Weband therefore the number of pages containing theterm would be small.
Table 2 shows the number ofcases in which term in different category decreasesthe number of hit pages more than low frequencyterm.
In comparing these numbers, we found thatthe additional term with low frequency helped toreduce the number of Web pages retrieved, makingno effort to determine the kind of relation the termhad with the other terms.
Thus, the terms with lowfrequencies are quantitatively effective when usedfor retrieval.
However, if we compare the resultsretrieved with Type 1 search terms and Type 3search terms, it is clear that big differences existbetween them.For example, consider ?latency period - erythro-cyte - hepatic cell?
obtained from SO-data in Fig-ure 1.
?Latency period?
is classified into a categorydifferent from the other terms and ?hepatic cell?has the lowest frequency in this word set.
When weused all the three terms, we obtained pages relatedto ?malaria?
at the top of the results and the title ofthe top page was ?What is malaria??
in Japanese.With ?latency period?
and ?erythrocyte,?
we againobtained the same page at the top, although it wasnot at the top when we used ?erythrocyte?
and?hepatic cell?
which have a taxonomical relation.Type3: With additional term in a different category Type1: With additional term in same category110100100010000100000100000010000000 As we showed above, the terms with thematicrelations with other search terms are effective atdirecting users to informative pages.
Quantitatively,terms with a high frequency are not effective atreducing the number of pages retrieved; qualita-tively, low frequency terms may not effective todirect users to informative pages.
We will continueour research in order to extract terms in thematicrelation more accurately and verify the usefulnessof them more quantitatively and qualitatively.5.
ConclusionWe sought to extract word sets with a thematicrelation from documents by employing case-marking particles derived from syntactic analysis.We compared the results retrieved with terms re-lated only taxonomically and the results retrievedwith terms that included a term related non-taxonomically to the other terms.
As a result, wefound adding term which is thematically related toterms that have already been input as key words iseffective at retrieving informative pages.ReferencesBerland, M. and Charniak, E. 1999.
Finding parts invery large corpora, In Proceedings of ACL 99, 57?64.Friberg, K. 2007.
Query expansion using domain infor-mation in compounds, In Proceedings of NAACL-HLT 2007 Doctoral Consortium, 1?4.Geffet, M. and Dagan, I.
2005.
The distribution inclu-sion hypotheses and lexical entailment.
In Proceed-ings of ACL 2005, 107?114.Girju, R. 2003.
Automatic detection of causal relationsfor question answering.
In Proceedings of ACLWorkshop on Multilingual summarization and ques-tion answering, 76?114.Hearst, M. A.
1992, Automatic acquisition of hyponymsfrom large text corpora, In Proceedings of Coling 92,539?545.Wisniewski, E. J. and Bassok.
M. 1999.
What makes aman similar to a tie?
Cognitive Psychology, 39: 208?238.Yamamoto, E., Kanzaki, K., and Isahara, H. 2005.
Ex-traction of hierarchies based on inclusion of co-occurring words with frequency information.
In Pro-ceedings of IJCAI 2005, 1166?1172.1000 001 10 100 1000 10000 100000 1000000 10000000 100000000 1000000000 10000000000Number of Web pages retrieved with Type2 (base key words)umberofWebpagesretrievedwhenatermisaddedtoType2000N144
