Proceedings of the ACL 2007 Student Research Workshop, pages 67?72,Prague, June 2007. c?2007 Association for Computational LinguisticsTowards a Computational Treatment of SuperlativesSilke ScheibleInstitute for Communicating and Collaborative Systems (ICCS)School of InformaticsUniversity of EdinburghS.Scheible@sms.ed.ac.ukAbstractI propose a computational treatment of su-perlatives, starting with superlative con-structions and the main challenges inautomatically recognising and extractingtheir components.
Initial experimental evi-dence is provided for the value of the pro-posed work for Question Answering.
I alsobriefly discuss its potential value for Sen-timent Detection and Opinion Extraction.1 IntroductionAlthough superlatives are frequently found innatural language, with the exception of recent workby Bos and Nissim (2006) and Jindal and Liu(2006), they have not yet been investigated withina computational framework.
And within theframework of theoretical linguistics, studies of su-perlatives have mainly focused on particular se-mantic properties that may only rarely occur innatural language (Szabolcsi, 1986; Heim, 1999).My goal is a comprehensive computationaltreatment of superlatives.
The initial question I ad-dress is how useful information can be automati-cally extracted from superlative constructions.
Dueto the great semantic complexity and the variety ofsyntactic structures in which superlatives occur,this is a major challenge.
However, meeting it willbenefit NLP applications such as Question An-swering, Sentiment Detection and Opinion Extrac-tion, and Ontology Learning.2 What are Superlatives?In linguistics, the term ?superlative?
describes awell-defined class of word forms which (in Eng-lish) are derived from adjectives or adverbs in twodifferent ways: Inflectionally, where the suffix -estis appended to the base form of the adjective oradverb (e.g.
lowest, nicest, smartest), or analyti-cally, where the base adjective/adverb is precededby the markers most/least (e.g.
most interesting,least beautiful).
Certain adjectives and adverbshave irregular superlative forms: good (best), bad(worst), far (furthest/farthest), well (best), badly(worst), much (most), and little (least).In order to be able to form superlatives, adjec-tives and adverbs must be gradable, which meansthat it must be possible to place them on a scale ofcomparison, at a position higher or lower than theone indicated by the adjective/adverb alone.
InEnglish, this can be done by using the comparativeand superlative forms of the adjective or adverb:[1] (a) Maths is more difficult than Physics.
(b) Chemistry is less difficult than Physics.
[2] (a) Maths is the most difficult subject at school.
(b) History is the least difficult subject at school.The comparative form of an adjective or adverb iscommonly used to compare two entities to one an-other with respect to a certain quality.
For exam-ple, in [1], Maths is located at a higher point on thedifficulty scale than Physics, and Chemistry at alower point.
The superlative form of an adjectiveis usually used to compare one entity to a set ofother entities, and expresses the end spectrum ofthe scale: In [2], Maths and History are located atthe highest and lowest points of the difficultyscale, respectively, while all the other subjects atschool range somewhere in between.3 Why are Superlatives Interesting?From a computational perspective, superlativesare of interest because they express a comparison67between a target entity (indicated in bold) and itscomparison set (underlined), as in:[3] The blue whale is the largest mammal.Here, the target blue whale is compared to thecomparison set of mammals.
Milosavljevic (1999)has investigated the discourse purpose of differenttypes of comparisons.
She classifies superlatives asa type of set complement comparison, whose pur-pose is to highlight the uniqueness of the targetentity compared to its contrast set.My initial investigation of superlative formsshowed that there are two types of relation thathold between a target and its comparison set:Relation 1: Superlative relationRelation 2: IS-A relationThe superlative relation specifies a property whichall members of the set share, but which the targethas the highest (or lowest) degree or value of.
TheIS-A (or hypernymy) relation expresses the mem-bership of the target in the comparison class (e.g.its parent class in a generalisation hierarchy).
Bothof these relations are of great interest from a rela-tion extraction point of view, and in Section 6, Idiscuss their use in applications such as QuestionAnswering (QA) and Sentiment Detection andOpinion Extraction.
That a computational treat-ment of superlatives is a worthwhile undertaking isalso supported by the frequency of superlativeforms in ordinary text: In a 250,000 word subcor-pus of the WSJ corpus 1  I found 602 instances(which amounts to roughly one superlative form inevery 17 sentences), while in the corpus of animalencyclopaedia entries used by Milosavljevic(1999), there were 1059 superlative forms in250,000 words (about one superlative form inevery 11 sentences).2 These results show signifi-cant variation in the distribution of superlativesacross different text genres.4 Elements of a Computational Treat-ment of SuperlativesFor an interpretation of comparisons, two thingsare generally of interest: What is being compared,and with respect to what this comparison is made.Given that superlatives express set comparisons, a1www.ldc.upenn.edu/Catalog/LDC2000T43.html2In the following, these 250,000 word subcorpora willbe referred to as SubWSJ and SubAC.computational treatment should therefore help toidentify:a) The target and comparison setb) The type of superlative relation that holds be-tween them (cf.
Relation 1 in Section 3)However, this task is far from straightforward,firstly because superlatives occur in a variety ofdifferent constructions.
Consider for example:[4] The pipe organ is the largest instrument.
[5] Of all the musicians in the brass band, Peter playsthe largest instrument.
[6] The human foot is narrowest at the heel.
[7] First Class mail usually arrives the fastest.
[8] This year, Jodie Foster was voted best actress.
[9] I will get there at 8 at the earliest.
[10] I am most tired of your constant moaning.
[11] Most successful bands are from the U.S.All these examples contain a superlative form(bold italics).
However, they differ not only in theirsyntactic structure, but also in the way in whichthey express a comparison.
Example [4] contains aclear-cut comparison between a target item and itscomparison set: The pipe organ is compared to allother instruments with respect to its size.
However,although the superlative form in [4] occurs in thesame noun phrase as in [5], the comparisons differ:What is being compared in [5] is not just the in-struments, but the musicians in the brass band withrespect to the size of the instrument that they play.In example [6], the target and comparison set areeven less easy to identify.
What is being comparedhere is not the human foot and a set of other enti-ties, but rather different parts of the human foot.
Incontrast to the first two examples, this superlativeform is not incorporated in a noun phrase, but oc-curs freely in the sentence.
The same applies tofastest in example [7], which is an adverbial super-lative.
The comparison here is between First Classmail and other mail delivery services.
Finally, ex-amples [8] to [11] are not proper comparisons: bestactress in [8] is an idiomatic expression, earliest in[9] is part of a so-called PP superlative construc-tion (Corver and Matushansky, 2006), and [10] and[11] describe two non-comparative uses of most, asan intensifier and a proportional quantifier, respec-tively (Huddleston and Pullum, 2002).Initially, I will focus on cases like [4], which Icall IS-A superlatives because they make explicitthe IS-A relation that holds between target andcomparison set (cf.
Relation 2 in Section 3).
They68are a good initial focus for a computational ap-proach because both their target and comparisonset are explicitly realised in the text (usually,though not necessarily, in the same sentence).Common surface forms of IS-A superlatives in-volve the verb ?to be?
([12]-[14]), appositive posi-tion [15], and other copula verbs or expressions([16] and [17]):[12] The blue whale is the largest mammal.
[13] The blue whale is the largest of all mammals.
[14] Of all mammals, the blue whale is the largest.
[15] The largest mammal, the blue whale, weighs...[16] The ostrich is considered the largest bird.
[17] Mexico claimed to be the most peaceful countryin the Americas.IS-A superlatives are also the most frequent type ofsuperlative comparison, with 176 instances inSubWSJ (ca.
30% of all superlative forms), and350 instances in SubAC (ca.
33% of all superlativeforms).The second major problem in a computationaltreatment of superlatives is to correctly identifyand interpret the comparison set.
The challenge liesin the fact that it can be restricted in a variety ofways, for example by preceding possessives andpremodifiers, or by postmodifiers such as PPs andvarious kinds of clauses.
Consider for example:[18] VW is [Europe?s largest maker of cars].
[19] VW is [the largest European car maker with thisproduct range].
[20] VW is [the largest car maker in Europe] with animpressive product range.
[21] In China, VW is by far [the largest car maker].The phrases of cars and car in [18] and [19]both have the role of specifying the type of makerthat constitutes the comparison set.
The phrasesEurope?s, European and in Europe occur in deter-minative, premodifying, and postmodifying posi-tion, respectively, but all have the role of restrict-ing the set of car makers to the ones in Europe.And finally, the ?with?
PP phrases in [19] and [20]both occur in postmodifying position, but differ inthat the one in [19] is involved in the comparison,while the one in [20] is non-restrictive.
In addition,restrictors of the comparison can also occur else-where in the sentence, as shown by the PP phraseand adverbial in [21].
It is evident that in order toextract useful and reliable information, a thoroughsyntactic and semantic analysis of superlative con-structions is required.5 Previous Approaches5.1 Jindal and Liu (2006)Jindal and Liu (2006) propose the study of com-parative sentence mining, by which they mean thestudy of sentences that express ?an orderingrelation between two sets of entities with respect tosome common features?
(2006).
They considerthree kinds of relations: non-equal gradable (e.g.better), equative (e.g.
as good as) and superlative(e.g.
best).
Having identified comparative sen-tences in a given text, the task is to extract com-parative relations from them, in form of a vectorlike (relationWord, features, entityS1, entityS2),where relationWord represents the keyword usedto express a comparative relation, features are a setof features being compared, and entityS1 and enti-tyS2 are the sets of entities being compared, whereentityS1 appears to the left of the relation word andentityS2 to the right.
Thus, for a sentence like?Canon?s optics is better than those of Sony andNikon?, the system is expected to extract the vector(better, {optics}, {Canon}, {Sony, Nikon}).For extracting the comparative relations, Jindaland Liu use what they call label sequential rules(LSR), mainly based on POS tags.
Their overall F-score for this extraction task is 72%, a big im-provement to the 58% achieved by their baselinesystem.
Although this result suggests that their sys-tem represents a powerful way of dealing with su-perlatives computationally, a closer inspection oftheir approach, and in particular of the gold stan-dard data set, reveals some serious problems.Jindal and Liu claim that for superlatives, theentityS2 slot is ?normally empty?
(2006).
Assum-ing that the members of entityS2 usually representthe comparison set, this is somewhat counter-intuitive.
A look at the data shows that even incases where the comparison set is explicitly men-tioned in the sentence, the entityS2 slot remainsempty.
For example, although the comparison setin [22] is represented by the string these 2nd gen-eration jukeboxes ( ipod , archos , dell , samsung ),it is not annotated as entityS2 in the gold standard:[22] all reviews i 've seen seem to in-dicate that the creative mp3 jukeboxeshave the best sound quality of these2nd generation jukeboxes ( ipod , ar-chos , dell , samsung ) .
(best, {sound quality}, {creative mp3 jukeboxes}, {--})Jindal and Liu (2006)69Furthermore, Jindal and Liu do not distinguishbetween different types of superlatives.
In con-structions where the superlative form is incorpo-rated into an NP, Jindal and Liu consistently inter-pret the string following the superlative form as a?feature?, which is appropriate for cases like [22],but does not apply to superlative sentences involv-ing the copula verb ?to be?
(as e.g.
in [4]), wherethe NP head denotes the comparison set rather thana feature.
A further major problem is that restric-tions on the comparison set as the ones discussedin Section 4 and negation are not considered at all.Therefore, the reliability of the output produced bythe system is questionable.5.2 Bos and Nissim (2006)In contrast to Jindal and Liu (2006), Bos andNissim?s (2006) approach to superlatives is explic-itly semantic.
They describe an implementation ofa system that can automatically detect superlatives,and determine the correct comparison set for at-tributive cases, where the superlative form is in-corporated into an NP.
For example in [23], thecomparison set of the superlative oldest spans fromword 3 to word 7:[23]  wsj00 1690 [...] Scope: 3-7The oldest bell-ringing group in thecountry , the Ancient Society of Col-lege Youths , founded in 1637 , re-mains male-only , [...] .
(Bos and Nissim 2006)Bos and Nissim?s system, called DLA (Deep Lin-guistic Analysis), uses a wide-coverage parser toproduce semantic representations of superlativesentences, which are then exploited to select thecomparison set among attributive cases.
Comparedwith a baseline result, the results for this are verygood, with an accuracy of 69%-83%.The results are clearly very promising and showthat comparison sets can be identified with highaccuracy.
However, this only represents a first steptowards the goal of the present work.
Apart fromthe superlative keyword oldest, the only informa-tion example [23] provides is that the comparisonset spans from word 3 to word 7.
However, whatwould be interesting to know is that the target ofthe comparison appears in the same sentence andspans from word 9 to word 14 (the Ancient Societyof College Youths).
Furthermore, no analysis of thesemantic roles of the constituents of the resultingstring is carried out: We lose the information thatthe Ancient Society of College Youths IS-A kind ofbell-ringing group, and that the set of bell-ringinggroups is restricted in location (in the country).6 ApplicationsThe proposed work will be beneficial for a vari-ety of areas in NLP, for example Question An-swering (QA), Sentiment Detection/Opinion Ex-traction, Ontology Learning, or Natural LanguageGeneration.
In this section I will discuss applica-tions in the first two areas.6.1 Question AnsweringIn open-domain QA, the proposed work will beuseful for answering two question types.
A super-lative sentence like [24], found in a corpus, can beused to answer both a factoid question [25] and adefinition question [26]:[24] A: The Nile is the longest river in the world.
[25] Q: What is the world?s longest river?
[26] Q: What is the Nile?Here I will focus on the latter.
The common as-sumption that superlatives are useful with respectto answering definition questions is based on theobservation that superlatives like the one in [24]both place an entity in a generalisation hierarchy,and distinguish it from its contrast set.To investigate this assumption, I carried out astudy involving the TREC QA ?other?
questionnuggets3, which are snippets of text that containrelevant information for the definition of a specifictopic.
In a recent study of judgement consistency(Lin and Demner-Fushman, 2006), relevant nug-gets were judged as either 'vital' or 'okay' by 10different judges rather than the single assessorstandardly used in TREC.
For example, the firstthree nuggets for the topic ?Merck & Co.?
are:[27] Qid 75.8: 'other' question for target Merck & Co.75.8  1   vital   World's largest drug company.75.8  2   okay   Spent $1.68 billion on RandD in1997.75.8  3   okay   Has experience finding new usesfor established drugs.
(taken from TREC 2005; 'vital' and 'okay' reflectthe opinion of the TREC evaluator.
)My investigation of the nugget judgements inLin and Demner-Fushman's study yielded two in-3http://trec.nist.gov/data/qa.html70teresting results: First of all, a relatively high pro-portion of relevant nuggets contains superlatives:On average, there is one superlative nugget for atleast half of the TREC topics.
Secondly, of 69superlative nuggets altogether, 32 (i.e.
almost half)are judged ?vital?
by more than 9 assessors.Furthermore, I found that the nuggets can be dis-tinguished by how the question target (i.e.
theTREC topic, referred to as T1) relates to the super-lative target (T2): In the first case, T1 and T2 coin-cide (referred to as class S1).
In the second one, T2is part of or closely related to T1, or T2 is part ofthe comparison set (class S2).
In the third case, T1is unrelated or only distantly related to T2 (S3).Table 1 shows examples of each class:T1 nugget (T2 in bold)S1 Merck & Co. World's largest drug companyS2 FlorenceNightingaleNightingale Medal highestinternational nurses awardS3 Kurds Irbil largest city controlled byKurdsTable 1.
Examples of superlative nuggets.Of the 69 nuggets containing superlatives, 46fall into subclass S1, 15 into subclass S2 and 8 intosubclass S3.
While I noted earlier that 32/69 (46%)of superlative-containing nuggets were judged vitalby more than 9 assessors, these judgements are notequally distributed over the subclasses: Table 2shows that 87% of S1 judgements are 'vital', whileonly 38% of S3 judgements are.number ofinstances% of ?vital?judgements% of ?okay?judgementsS1 46 87% 13%S2 15 59% 40%S3 8 38% 60%Table 2.
Ratings of the classes S1, S2, and S3.These results strongly suggest that the presenceof superlatives, and in particular S1 membership, isa good indicator of the importance of nuggets, andthus for answering definition questions.
Some ex-periments carried out in the framework of TREC2006 (Kaisser et al, 2006), however, showed thatsuperlatives alone are not a winning indicator ofnugget importance, but S1 membership may be.
Asimilar simple technique was used by Ahn et al(2005) and by Razmara and Kosseim (2007).
Alljust looked for the presence of a superlative andraised the score without further analysing the typeof superlative or its role in the sentence.
This callsfor a more sophisticated approach, where class S1superlatives can be distinguished.6.2 Sentiment Detection/Opinion ExtractionLike adjectives and adverbs, superlatives can beobjective or subjective.
Compare for example:[28] The Black Forest is the largest forest inGermany.
[objective][29] The Black Forest is the most beautiful areain Germany.
[subjective]So far, none of the studies in sentiment detection(e.g.
Wilson et al, 2005; Pang et al, 2002) or opin-ion extraction (e.g.
Hu and Liu, 2004; Popescu andEtzioni, 2005) have specifically looked at the roleof superlatives in these areas.Like subjective adjectives, subjective superla-tives can either express positive or negative opin-ions.
This polarity depends strongly on the adjec-tive or adverb that the superlative is derived from.4As superlatives place the adjective or adverb at thehighest or lowest point of the comparison scale (cf.Section 2), the question of interest is how this af-fects the polarity of the adjective/adverb.
If theintensity of the polarity increases in a likewisemanner, then subjective superlatives are bound toexpress the strongest or weakest opinions possible.If this hypothesis holds true, an ?extreme opinion?extraction system could be created by combiningthe proposed superlative extraction system with asubjectivity recognition system that can identifysubjective superlatives.
This would clearly be ofinterest to many companies and market researchers.Initial searches in Hu and Liu?s annotated cor-pus of customer reviews (2004) look promising.Sentences in this corpus are annotated with infor-mation about positive and negative opinions,which are located on a six-point scale, where [+/-3]stand for the strongest positive/negative opinions,and [+/-1] stand for the weakest positive/negativeopinions.
A search for annotated sentences con-taining superlatives shows that an overwhelmingmajority are marked with strongest opinion labels.7 Summary and Future WorkThis paper proposed the task of automatically ex-tracting useful information from superlatives oc-4It may, however, also depend on whether the superla-tive expresses the highest ('most') or the lowest ('least')point in the scale.71curring in free text.
It provided an overview of su-perlative constructions and the main challengesthat have to be faced, described previous computa-tional approaches and their limitations, and dis-cussed applications in two areas in NLP: QA andSentiment Detection/Opinion Extraction.The proposed task can be seen as consisting ofthree subtasks:TASK 1: Decide whether a given sentence containsa superlative formTASK 2: Given a sentence containing a superlativeform, identify what type of superlative it is (ini-tially: IS-A superlative or not?
)TASK 3: For set comparisons, identify the targetand the comparison set, as well as the superlativerelationTask 1 can be tackled by a simple approach rely-ing on POS tags (e.g.
JJS and RBS in the PennTreebank tagset).
For Task 2, I have carried out athorough analysis of the different types of superla-tive forms and postulated a new classification forthem.
My present efforts are on the creation of agold standard data set for the extraction task.
Assuperlatives are particularly frequent in encyclo-paedic language (cf.
Section 3), I am consideringusing the Wikipedia 5  as a knowledge base.
Themain challenge is to devise a suitable annotationscheme which can account for all syntactic struc-tures in which IS-A superlatives occur and whichincorporates their semantic properties in an ade-quate way (semantic role labelling).
Finally, forTask 3, I plan to use both manually created rulesand machine learning techniques.AcknowledgementsI would like to thank Bonnie Webber and MariaMilosavljevic for their helpful comments and sug-gestions on this paper.
Many thanks also go toNitin Jindal and Bing Liu, Johan Bos and MalvinaNissim, and Jimmy Lin and Dina Demner-Fushman for making their data available.ReferencesKisuh Ahn, Johan Bos, James R. Curran, Dave Kor,Malvina Nissim and Bonnie Webber.
2005.Question Answering with QED.
In Voorhees andBuckland (eds.
): The 14th Text REtrievalConference, TREC 2005.5www.wikipedia.orgJohan Bos and Malvina Nissim.
2006.
An EmpiricalApproach to the Interpretation of Superlatives.
InProceedings of EMNLP 2006, pages 9-17, Sydney,Australia.Norbert Corver and Ora Matushansky.
2006.
At our bestwhen at our boldest.
Handout.
TIN-dag, Feb. 4, 2006.Irene Heim.
1999.
Notes on superlatives.
Ms., MIT.Minqing Hu and Bing Liu.
2004.
Mining Opinion Fea-tures in Customer Reviews.
In Proceedings of AAAI,pages 755-760, San Jose, California, USA.Rodney Huddleston and Geoffrey K. Pullum (eds.).2002.
The Cambridge grammar of the English lan-guage.
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.Michael Kaisser, Silke Scheible and Bonnie Webber.2006.
Experiments at the University of Edinburgh forthe TREC 2006 QA track.
In Proceedings of TREC2006, Gaithersburg, MD, USA.Nitin Jindal and Bing Liu.
2006.
Mining ComparativeSentences and Relations.
In Proceedings of AAAI,Boston, MA, USA.Jimmy Lin and Dina Demner-Fushman.
2006.
Willpyramids built of nuggets topple over?
In Proceed-ings of the HLT/NAACL, pages 383-390, New York,NY, USA.Maria Milosavljevic.
1999.
The Automatic Generationof Comparisons in Descriptions of Entities.
PhDThesis.
Microsoft Research Institute, Macquarie Uni-versity, Sydney, Australia.Bo Pang, Lillian Lee, and Shivakumar Vaithyanathan.2002.
Thumbs up?
Sentiment classification usingmachine learning techniques.
In Proceedings ofEMNLP, pages 79-86, Philadelphia, PA, USA.Ana-Maria Popescu and Oren Etzioni.
2005.
Extractingproduct features and opinions from reviews.
In Pro-ceedings of HLT/EMNLP-2005, pages 339-346, Van-couver, British Columbia, Canada.Majid Razmara and Leila Kosseim.
2007.
A littleknown fact is... Answering Other questions using in-terest-markers.
In Proceedings of CICLing-2007,Mexico City, Mexico.Anna Szabolcsi.
1986.
Comparative superlatives.
InMIT Working Papers in Linguistics (8).
ed.
by NaokiFukui, Tova R. Rapoport and Elisabeth Sagey.
245-265.Theresa Wilson, Janyce Wiebe and Paul Hoffmann.2005.
Recognizing Contextual Polarity in Phrase-Level Sentiment Analysis.
In Proceedings ofHLT/EMNLP 2005, pages 347-354, Vancouver, Brit-ish Columbia, Canada.72
