Proceedings of the ACL 2007 Demo and Poster Sessions, pages 61?64,Prague, June 2007. c?2007 Association for Computational LinguisticsA Joint Statistical Model for Simultaneous Word Spacing andSpelling Error Correction for KoreanHyungjong Noh* Jeong-Won Cha** Gary Geunbae Lee**Department of Computer Science and EngineeringPohang University of Science & Technology (POSTECH)San 31, Hyoja-Dong, Pohang, 790-784, Republic of Korea** Changwon National UniversityDepartment of Computer information & Communication9 Sarim-dong, Changwon Gyeongnam, Korea 641-773nohhj@postech.ac.kr jcha@changwon.ac.kr gblee@postech.ac.krAbstractThis paper presents noisy-channel basedKorean preprocessor system, which cor-rects word spacing and typographical errors.The proposed algorithm corrects both er-rors simultaneously.
Using Eojeol transi-tion pattern dictionary and statistical datasuch as Eumjeol n-gram and Jaso transitionprobabilities, the algorithm minimizes theusage of huge word dictionaries.1 IntroductionWith increasing usages of messenger and SMS, weneed an efficient text normalizer that processescolloquial style sentences.
As in the case of generalliterary sentences, correcting word spacing errorand spelling error is the very essential problemwith colloquial style sentences.In order to correct word spacing errors, manyalgorithms were used, which can be divided intostatistical algorithms and rule-based algorithms.Statistical algorithms generally use character n-gram (Eojeol 1  or Eumjeol 2  n-gram in Korean)(Kang and Woo, 2001; Kwon, 2002) or noisy-channel model (Gao et.
al., 2003).
Rule-based al-gorithms are mostly heuristic algorithms that re-flect linguistic knowledge (Yang et al, 2005) tosolve word spacing problem.
Word spacing prob-lem is treated especially in Japanese or Chinese,1 Eojeol is a Korean spacing unit which consists of one ormore Eumjeols (morphemes).2 Eumjeol is a Korean syllable.which does not use word boundary, or Korean,which is normally segmented into Eojeols, not intowords or morphemes.The previous algorithms for spelling error cor-rection basically use a word dictionary.
Each wordin a sentence is compared to word dictionary en-tries, and if the word is not in the dictionary, thenthe system assumes that the word has spelling er-rors.
Then corrected candidate words are suggestedby the system from the word dictionary, accordingto some metric to measure the similarity betweenthe target word and its candidate word, such asedit-distance (Kashyap and Oommen, 1984; Mayset al, 1991).But these previous algorithms have a critical li-mitation: They all corrected word spacing errorsand spelling errors separately.
Word spacing algo-rithms define the problem as a task for determiningwhether to insert the delimiter between charactersor not.
Since the determination is made accordingto the characters, the algorithms cannot work if thecharacters have spelling errors.
Likewise, algo-rithms for solving spelling error problem cannotwork well with word spacing errors.To cope with the limitation, there is an algo-rithm proposed for Japanese (Nagata, 1996).
Japa-nese sentence cannot be divided into words, butinto chunks (bunsetsu in Japanese), like Eojeol inKorean.
The proposed system is for sentences rec-ognized by OCR, and it uses character transitionprobabilities and POS (part of speech) tag n-gram.However it needs a word dictionary and takes longtime for searching many character combinations.61We propose a new algorithm which can correctboth word spacing error and spelling error simulta-neously for Korean.
This algorithm is based onnoisy-channel model, which uses Jaso3  transitionprobabilities and Eojeol transition probabilities tocreate spelling correction candidates.
Candidatesare increased in number by inserting the blank cha-racters on the created candidates, which cover thespacing error correction candidates.
We find thebest candidate sentence from the networks of Ja-so/Eojeol candidates.
This method decreases thesize of Eojeol transition pattern dictionary and cor-rects the patterns which are not in the dictionary.The remainder of this paper is as follows: Sec-tion 2 describes why we use Jaso transition prob-ability for Korean.
Section 3 describes the pro-posed model in detail.
Section 4 provides the ex-periment results and analyses.
Finally, section 5presents our conclusion.2 Spelling Error Correction with JasoTransition4 ProbabilitiesWe can use Eumjeol transition probabilities or Jasotransition probabilities for spelling error correctionfor Korean.
We choose Jaso transition probabilitiesbecause there are several advantages.
Since anEumjeol is a combination of 3 Jasos, the number ofall possible Eumjeols is much larger than that of allpossible Jasos.
In other words, Jaso-basedlanguage model is smaller than Eumjeol-basedlanguage model.
Various errors in Eumjeol (even ifthey do not appear as an Eumjeol pattern in atraining corpus) can be corrected by correction inJaso unit.
Also, Jaso transition probabilities can beextracted from relatively small corpus.
This meritis very important since we do not normally havesuch a huge corpus which is very hard to collect,since we have to pair the spelling errors withcorresponding corrections.We obtain probabilities differently for eachcase: single Jaso transition case, two Jaso?s transi-tion case, and more than two Jasos transition case.In single Jaso transition case, the spelling errorsare corrected by only one Jaso transition (e.g.???????
/ ???).
The case of correctingby deleting Jaso is also one of the single Jaso tran-3 Jaso is a Korean character.4 ?Transition?
means the correct character is changed to othercharacter due to some causes, such as typographical errors.sition case (???????
/ ??X5).
The Jasotransition probabilities are calculated by countingthe transition frequencies in a training corpus.In two Jaso?s transition case, the spelling errorsare corrected by adjacent two Jasos transition(?????
/ ???X?).
In this case, we treattwo Jaso?s as one transition unit.
The transitionprobability calculation is the same as above.In more than two Jaso?s transition case, the spel-ling errors cannot be corrected only by Jaso transi-tion (????).
In this case, we treat the wholeEojeols as one transition unit, and build an Eojeoltransition pattern dictionary for these special cases.3 A Joint Statistical Model for WordSpacing and Spelling Error Correction3.1 Problem DefinitionGiven a sentence T  which includes both wordspacing errors and spelling errors, we createcorrection candidates C  from T , and find the bestcandidate that has the highest transitionprobability from C .
'C).|(maxarg' TCPC C=               (1)3.2 Model DescriptionA given sentence T  and candidates  consist ofEumjeol  and the blank character .Cis ibnnbsbsbsbsT ...332211= .....332211 nnbsbsbsbsC =                (2)(n is the number of Eumjeols)Eumjeol  consists of 3 Jasos, Choseong (on-set), Jungseong (nucleus), and Jongseong (coda).The empty Jaso is defined as ?X?.
is ?isib B ?
whenthe blank exists, and ??
?
when the blank does notexist.321 iiii jjjs = .
(3)( : Choseong, : Jungseong, : Jongseong) 1ij 2ij 3ijNow we apply Bayes?
Rule for : 'C)|(maxarg' TCPC C=).
()|(maxarg)(/)()|(maxargCPCTPTPCPCTPCC==(4)5 ?X?
indicates that there is no Jaso in that position.62)(CP  can be obtained using trigrams of Eum-jeols (with the blank character) that  includes.
C?=?
?=niiii cccPCP121 )|()( ,  or b .
(5) sc =And  can be written as multiplicationof each Jaso transition probability and the blankcharacter transition probability.
)|( CTP)|()|(1'?==niii ssPCTP.
)]|()|()|()|([1''33'22'11?==niiiiiiiii bbPjjPjjPjjP(6)We use logarithm of  in implementa-tion.
Figure 1 shows how the system creates theJaso candidates network.
)|( TCPFigure 1: An example6 of Jaso candidate network.In Figure 1, the topmost line is the sequence ofJasos of the input sentence.
Each Eumjeol in thesentence is decomposed into 3 Jasos as above, andeach Jaso has its own correction candidates.
Forexample, Jaso ???
at 4th column has its candidates??
?, ???
and ?X?.
And two jaso?s ?X??
at 13thand 14th column has its candidates ????,???
?, ???
?, ???
?, and ????.
The undermostgray square is an Eojeol (which is decomposed intoJasos) candidate ???X?????X?
createdfrom ???X??X?.
Each jaso candidate has itsown transition probability, 7)|(log 'ikik jjP , that isused for calculating .
)|( TCPIn order to calculate , we need Eumjeol-based candidate network.
Hence, we convert theabove Jaso candidate network into Eumjeol/Eojeolcandidate network.
Figure 2 shows part of the final)(CP6 The example sentence is ?????????????
?.7 In real implementation, we used ?a*logP(jik|j?ik) + b?
bydetermining constants a and b with parameter optimization(a = 1.0, b = 3.0).network briefly.
At this time, the blank characters?
B ?
and ?
?
?
are inserted into each Eum-jeol/Eojeol candidates.
To find the best path fromthe candidates, we conduct viterbi-search fromleftmost node corresponding to the beginning ofthe sentence.
When Eumjeol/Eojeol candidates areselected, the algorithm prunes the candidates ac-cording to the accumulated probabilities, doingbeam search.
Once the best path is found, the sen-tence corrected by both spacing and spelling errorsis extracted by backtracking the path.
In Figure 2,thick squares represent the nodes selected by thebest path.Figure 2: A final Eumjeol/Eojeol candidate network84  Experiments and Analyses4.1  Corpus InformationTable 1: Corpus informationTable 1 shows the information of corpus which isused for experiments.
All corpora are obtainedfrom Korean web chatting site log.
Each corpushas pair of sentences, sentences containing errorsand sentences with those errors corrected.
Jasotransition patterns and Eojeol transition patternsare extracted from training corpus.
Also, Eumjeoln-grams are also obtained as a language model.8 The final corrected sentence is ???
???
??????
??
?.Training TestSentences 60076 6006Eojeols 302397 30376Error Sentences (%) 15335  (25.53)1512(25.17)Error Eojeols (%) 31297 (10.35)3111(10.24)634.2  Experiment Results and AnalysesWe used two separate Eumjeol n-grams as lan-guage models for experiments.
N-gram A is ob-tained from only training corpus and n-gram B isobtained from all training and test corpora.
All ac-curacies are measured based on Eojeol unit.Table 2 shows the results of word spacing errorcorrection only for the test corpus.Table 2: The word spacing error correction resultsThe results of both word spacing error and spell-ing error correction are shown in Table 3.
Errorcontaining test corpus (the blank characters are alldeleted) was applied to this evaluation.Table 3: The joint model resultsTable 4 shows the results of the same experi-ment, without deleting the blank characters in thetest corpus.
The experiment shows that our jointmodel has a flexibility of utilizing already existingblanks (spacing) in the input sentence.Table 4: The joint model results without deleting theexist spacesAs shown above, the performance is dependentof the language model (n-gram) performance.
Jasotransition probabilities can be obtained easily fromsmall corpus because the number of Jaso is verysmall, under 100, in contrast with Eumjeol.Using the existing blank information is also animportant factor.
If test sentences have no or fewblank characters, then we simply use joint algo-rithm to correct both errors.
But when the test sen-tences already have some blank characters, we canuse the information since some of the spacing canbe given by the user.
By keeping the blank charac-ters, we can get better accuracy because blank in-sertion errors are generally fewer than the blankdeletion errors in the corpus.5 ConclusionsWe proposed a joint text preprocessing modelthat can correct both word spacing and spellingerrors simultaneously for Korean.
To our bestknowledge, this is the first model which can handleinter-related errors between spacing and spelling inKorean.
The usage and size of the word dictionar-ies are decreased by using Jaso statistical prob-abilities effectively.6 AcknowledgementThis work was supported in part by MIC & IITAthrough IT Leading R&D Support Project.ReferencesJianfeng Gao, Mu Li and Chang-Ning Huang.
2003.Improved Source-Channel Models for Chinese WordSegmentation.
Proceedings of the 41st Annual Meet-ing of the ACL, pp.
272-279Seung-Shik Kang and Chong-Woo Woo.
2001.
Auto-matic Segmentation of Words Using Syllable BigramStatistics.
Proceedings of 6th Natural Language Proc-essing Pacific Rim Symposium, pp.
729-732R.
L Kashyap, B. J. Oommen.
1984.
Spelling Correc-tion Using Probabilistic Methods.
Pattern Recogni-tion Letters, pp.
147-154Oh-Wook Kwon.
2002.
Korean Word Segmentation andCompound-noun Decomposition Using MarkovChain and Syllable N-gram.
The Journal of theAcoustical Society of Korea, pp.
274-283.Mu Li, Muhua Zhu, Yang Zhang and Ming Zhou.
2006.Exploring Distributional Similarity Based Models forQuery Spelling Correction.
Proceedings of the 21stInternational Conference on Computational Linguis-tics and 44th Annual Meeting of the ACL, pp.
1025-1032Eric Mays, Fred J. Damerau and Robert L. Mercer.1991.
Context Based Spelling Correction.
IP&M, pp.517-522.Masaaki Nagata.
1996.
Context-Based Spelling Correc-tion for Japanese OCR.
Proceedings of the 16th con-ference on Computational Linguistics, pp.
806-811Christoper C. Yang and K. W. Li.
2005.
A HeuristicMethod Based on a Statistical Approach for ChineseText Segmentation.
Journal of the American Societyfor Information Science and Technology, pp.
1438-1447.n-gram A n-gram BAccuracy 91.03% 96.00%System n-gram A n-gram BBasic joint model 88.34% 93.83%System n-gram A n-gram BBaseline 89.35% 89.35%Basic joint model with keep-ing the blank characters 90.35% 95.25%64
