Proceedings of the 45th Annual Meeting of the Association of Computational Linguistics, pages 808?815,Prague, Czech Republic, June 2007. c?2007 Association for Computational LinguisticsPredicting Success in DialogueDavid Reitter and Johanna D. Mooredreitter | jmoore @ inf.ed.ac.ukSchool of InformaticsUniversity of EdinburghUnited KingdomAbstractTask-solving in dialogue depends on the lin-guistic alignment of the interlocutors, whichPickering & Garrod (2004) have suggestedto be based on mechanistic repetition ef-fects.
In this paper, we seek confirmationof this hypothesis by looking at repetitionin corpora, and whether repetition is cor-related with task success.
We show thatthe relevant repetition tendency is based onslow adaptation rather than short-term prim-ing and demonstrate that lexical and syntac-tic repetition is a reliable predictor of tasksuccess given the first five minutes of a task-oriented dialogue.1 IntroductionWhile humans are remarkably efficient, flexible andreliable communicators, we are far from perfect.Our dialogues differ in how successfully informa-tion is conveyed.
In task-oriented dialogue, wherethe interlocutors are communicating to solve a prob-lem, task success is a crucial indicator of the successof the communication.An automatic measure of task success would beuseful for evaluating conversations among humans,e.g., for evaluating agents in a call center.
In human-computer dialogues, predicting the task success afterjust a first few turns of the conversation could avoiddisappointment: if the conversation isn?t going well,a caller may be passed on to a human operator, orthe system may switch dialogue strategies.
As a firststep, we focus on human-human dialogue, since cur-rent spoken dialogue systems do not yet yield long,syntactically complex conversations.In this paper, we use syntactic and lexical featuresto predict task success in an environment where weassume no speaker model, no semantic informationand no information typical for a human-computerdialogue system, e.g., ASR confidence.
The fea-tures we use are based on a psychological theory,linking alignment between dialogue participants tolow-level syntactic priming.
An examination of thispriming reveals differences between short-term andlong-term effects.1.1 Repetition supports dialogueIn their Interactive Alignment Model (IAM), Pick-ering and Garrod (2004) suggest that dialogue be-tween humans is greatly aided by aligning repre-sentations on several linguistic and conceptual lev-els.
This effect is assumed to be driven by a cas-cade of linguistic priming effects, where interlocu-tors tend to re-use lexical, syntactic and other lin-guistic structures after their introduction.
Such re-use leads speakers to agree on a common situa-tion model.
Several studies have shown that speak-ers copy their interlocutor?s syntax (Branigan et al,1999).
This effect is usually referred to as structural(or: syntactic) priming.
These persistence effectsare inter-related, as lexical repetition implies pref-erences for syntactic choices, and syntactic choiceslead to preferred semantic interpretations.
Withoutdemanding additional cognitive resources, the ef-fects form a causal chain that will benefit the inter-locutor?s purposes.
Or, at the very least, it will beeasier for them to repeat linguistic choices than to808actively discuss their terminology and keep track ofeach other?s current knowledge of the situation inorder to come to a mutual understanding.1.2 Structural primingThe repetition effect at the center of this paper, prim-ing, is defined as a tendency to repeat linguistic de-cisions.
Priming has been shown to affect languageproduction and, to a lesser extent, comprehension, atdifferent levels of linguistic analysis.
This tendencymay show up in various ways, for instance in thecase of lexical priming as a shorter response time inlexical decision making tasks, or as a preference forone syntactic construction over an alternative one insyntactic priming (Bock, 1986).
In an experimentalstudy (Branigan et al, 1999), subjects were primedby completing either sentence (1a) or (1b):1a.
The racing driver showed the torn overall...1b.
The racing driver showed the helpful mechanic...Sentence (1a) was to be completed with a prepo-sitional object (?to the helpful mechanic?
), while(1b) required a double object construction (?the tornoverall?).
Subsequently, subjects were allowed tofreely complete a sentence such as the followingone, describing a picture they were shown:2.
The patient showed ...Subjects were more likely to complete (2) with adouble-object construction when primed with (1b),and with a prepositional object construction whenprimed with (1a).In a previous corpus-study, using transcriptionsof spontaneous, task-oriented and non-task-orienteddialogue, utterances were annotated with syntactictrees, which we then used to determine the phrase-structure rules that licensed production (and com-prehension) of the utterances (Reitter et al, 2006b).For each rule, the time of its occurrence was noted,e.g.
we noted3.
117.9s NP ?
AT AP NN a fenced meadow4.
125.5s NP ?
AT AP NN the abandoned cottageIn this study, we then found that the re-occurrenceof a rule (as in 4) was correlated with the temporaldistance to the first occurrence (3), e.g., 7.6 seconds.The shorter the distance between prime (3) and tar-get (4), the more likely were rules to re-occur.In a conversation, priming may lead a speakerto choose a verb over a synonym because their in-terlocutor has used it a few seconds before.
This,in turn, will increase the likelihood of the struc-tural form of the arguments in the governed verbalphrase?simply because lexical items have their pref-erences for particular syntactic structures, but alsobecause structural priming may be stronger if lexi-cal items are repeated (lexical boost, Pickering andBranigan (1998)).
Additionally, the structural prim-ing effects introduced above will make a previouslyobserved or produced syntactic structure more likelyto be re-used.
This chain reaction leads interlocu-tors in dialogue to reach a common situation model.Note that the IAM, in which interlocutors automati-cally and cheaply build a common representation ofcommon knowledge, is at odds with views that af-ford each dialogue participant an explicit and sepa-rate representation of their interlocutor?s knowledge.The connection between linguistic persistence orpriming effects and the success of dialogue is cru-cial for the IAM.
The predictions arising from this,however, have eluded testing so far.
In our previousstudy (Reitter et al, 2006b), we found more syn-tactic priming in the task-oriented dialogues of theMap Task corpus than in the spontaneous conversa-tion collected in the Switchboard corpus.
However,we compared priming effects across two datasets,where participants and conversation topics differedgreatly.
Switchboard contains spontaneous conver-sation over the telephone, while the task-orientedMap Task corpus was recorded with interlocutorsco-present.
While the result (more priming intask-oriented dialogue) supported the predictions ofIAM, cognitive load effects could not be distin-guished from priming.
In the current study, we ex-amine structural repetition in task-oriented dialogueonly and focus on an extrinsic measure, namely tasksuccess.2 Related WorkPrior work on predicting task success has beendone in the context of human-computer spoken di-alogue systems.
Features such as recognition er-ror rates, natural language understanding confidenceand context shifts, confirmations and re-prompts (di-alogue management) have been used classify dia-809logues into successful and problematic ones (Walkeret al, 2000).
With these automatically obtainablefeatures, an accuracy of 79% can be achieved giventhe first two turns of ?How may I help you??
di-alogues, where callers are supposed to be routedgiven a short statement from them about what theywould like to do.
From the whole interaction (veryrarely more than five turns), 87% accuracy can beachieved (36% of dialogues had been hand-labeled?problematic?).
However, the most predictive fea-tures, which related to automatic speech recognitionerrors, are neither available in the human-human di-alogue we are concerned with, nor are they likely tobe the cause of communication problems there.Moreover, failures in the Map Task dialogues aredue to the actual goings-on when two interlocutorsengage in collaborative problem-solving to jointlyreach an understanding.
In such dialogues, inter-locutors work over a period of about half an hour.To predict their degree of success, we will leveragethe phenomenon of persistence, or priming.In previous work, two paradigms have seen exten-sive use to measure repetition and priming effects.Experimental studies expose subjects to a particularsyntactic construction, either by having them pro-duce the construction by completing a sample sen-tence, or by having an experimenter or confederateinterlocutor use the construction.
Then, subjects areasked to describe a picture or continue with a giventask, eliciting the target construction or a compet-ing, semantically equivalent alternative.
The analy-sis then shows an effect of the controlled conditionon the subject?s use of the target construction.Observational studies use naturalistic data, suchas text and dialogue found in corpora.
Here, theprime construction is not controlled?but again, acorrelation between primes and targets is sought.Specific competing constructions such as ac-tive/passive, verbal particle placement or that-deletion in English are often the object of study(Szmrecsanyi, 2005; Gries, 2005; Dubey et al,2005; Ja?ger, 2006), but the effect can also be gen-eralized to syntactic phrase-structure rules or com-binatorial categories (Reitter et al, 2006a).Church (2000) proposes adaptive language mod-els to account for lexical adaptation.
Each documentis split into prime and target halves.
Then, for se-lected words w, the model estimatesP (+adapt) = P (w ?
target|w ?
prime)P (+adapt) is higher than Pprior = P (w ?target), which is not surprising, since texts are usu-ally about a limited number of topics.This method looks at repetition over whole doc-ument halves, independently of decay.
In this pa-per, we apply the same technique to syntactic rules,where we expect to estimate syntactic priming ef-fects of the long-term variety.3 Repetition-based Success Prediction3.1 The Success Prediction TaskIn the following, we define two variants of the taskand then describe a model that uses repetition effectsto predict success.Task 1: Success is estimated when an entire di-alogue is given.
All linguistic and non-linguisticinformation available may be used.
This task re-flects post-hoc analysis applications, where dia-logues need to be evaluated without the actual suc-cess measure being available for each dialogue.
Thiscovers cases where, e.g., it is unclear whether a callcenter agent or an automated system actually re-sponded to the call satisfactorily.Task 2: Success is predicted when just the initial5-minute portion of the dialogue is available.
A dia-logue system?s or a call center agent?s strategy maybe influenced depending on such a prediction.3.2 MethodTo address the tasks described in the previous Sec-tion, we train support vector machines (SVM) topredict the task success score of a dialogue fromlexical and syntactic repetition information accumu-lated up to a specified point in time in the dialogue.DataThe HCRC Map Task corpus (Anderson et al,1991) contains 128 dialogues between subjects, whowere given two slightly different maps depicting thesame (imaginary) landscape.
One subject gives di-rections for a predefined route to another subject,who follows them and draws a route on their map.The spoken interactions were recorded, tran-scribed and syntactically annotated with phrase-structure grammar.810The Map Task provides us with a precise measureof success, namely the deviation of the predefinedand followed route.
Success can be quantified bycomputing the inverse deviation between subjects?paths.
Both subjects in each trial were asked to draw?their?
respective route on the map that they weregiven.
The deviation between the respective pathsdrawn by interlocutors was then determined as thearea covered in between the paths (PATHDEV).FeaturesRepetition is measured on a lexical and a syntacticlevel.
To do so, we identify all constituents in theutterances as per phrase-structure analysis.
[Go [to[the [[white house] [on [the right]]]]]] would yield11 constituents.
Each constituent is licensed by asyntactic rule, for instance VP ?
V PP for the top-most constituent in the above example.For each constituent, we check whether it is a lex-ical or syntactic repetition, i.e.
if the same wordsoccurred before, or if the licensing rule has occurredbefore in the same dialogue.
If so, we incrementcounters for lexical and/or syntactic repetitions, andincrease a further counter for string repetition by thelength of the phrase (in characters).
The latter vari-able accounts for the repetition of long phrases.We include a data point for each 10-second inter-val of the dialogue, with features reporting the lexi-cal (LEXREP), syntactic (SYNREP) and character-based (CHARREP) repetitions up to that point intime.
A time stamp and the total numbers of con-stituents and characters are also included (LENGTH).This way, the model may work with repetition pro-portions rather than the absolute counts.We train a support vector machine for regressionwith a radial basis function kernel (?
= 5), using thefeatures as described above and the PATHDEV scoreas output.3.3 EvaluationWe cast the task as a regression problem.
To pre-dict a dialogue?s score, we apply the SVM to its datapoints.
The mean outcome is the estimated score.A suitable evaluation measure, the classical r2,indicates the proportion of the variance in the ac-tual task success score that can be predicted bythe model.
All results reported here are producedfrom 10-fold cross-validated 90% training / 10% testTask 1 Task 2ALL Features 0.17 0.14ALL w/o SYNREP 0.15 0.06ALL w/o LEX/CHARREP 0.09 0.07LENGTH ONLY 0.09 n/aBaseline 0.01 0.01Table 1: Portion of variance explained (r2)splits of the dialogues.
No full dialogue was in-cluded in both test and training sets.Task 1 was evaluated with all data, the Task 2model was trained and tested on data points sampledfrom the first 5 minutes of the dialogue.For Task 1 (full dialogues), the results (Table 1)indicate that ALL repetition features together withthe LENGTH of the conversation, account for about17% of the total score variance.
The repetition fea-tures improve on the performance achieved from di-alogue length alone (about 9%).For the more difficult Task 2, ALL features to-gether achieve 14% of the variance.
(Note thatLENGTH is not available.)
When the syntactic repe-tition feature is taken out and only lexical (LEXREP)and character repetition (CHARREP) are used, weachieve 6% in explained variance.The baseline is implemented as a model that al-ways estimates the mean score.
It should, theoreti-cally, be close to 0.3.4 DiscussionObviously, linguistic information alone will not ex-plain the majority of the task-solving abilities.
Apartfrom subject-related factors, communicative strate-gies will play a role.However, linguistic repetition serves as a goodpredictor of how well interlocutors will completetheir joint task.
The features used are relatively sim-ple: provided there is some syntactic annotation,rule repetition can easily be detected.
Even with-out syntactic information, lexical repetition alreadygoes a long way.But what kind of repetition is it that plays a role intask-oriented dialogue?
Leaving out features is notan ideal method to quantify their influence?in par-ticular, where features inter-correlate.
The contribu-tion of syntactic repetition is still unclear from the811present results: it acts as a useful predictor only overthe course of the whole dialogues, but not within a5-minute time span, where the SVM cannot incor-porate its informational content.We will therefore turn to a more detailed analysisof structural repetition, which should help us drawconclusions relating to the psycholinguistics of dia-logue.4 Long term and short term primingIn the following, we will examine syntactic (struc-tural) priming as one of the driving forces behindalignment.
We choose syntactic over lexical primingfor two reasons.
Lexical repetition due to priming isdifficult to distinguish from repetition that is due tointerlocutors attending to a particular topic of con-versation, which, in coherent dialogue, means thattopics are clustered.
Lexical choice reflects thosetopics, hence we expect clusters of particular termi-nology.
Secondly: the maps used to collect the dia-logues in the Map Task corpus contained landmarkswith labels.
It is only natural (even if by meansto cross-modal priming) that speakers will identifylandmarks using the labels and show little variabilityin lexical choice.
We will measure repetition of syn-tactic rules, whereby word-by-word repetition (topi-cality effects, parroting) is explicitly excluded.For syntactic priming1, two repetition effectshave been identified.
Classical priming effects arestrong: around 10% for syntactic rules (Reitter et al,2006b).
However, they decay quickly (Braniganet al, 1999) and reach a low plateau after a few sec-onds, which likens to the effect to semantic (similar-ity) priming.
What complicates matters is that thereis also a different, long-term adaptation effect that isalso commonly called (repetition) priming.Adaptation has been shown to last longer, fromminutes (Bock and Griffin, 2000) to several days.Lexical boost interactions, where the lexical rep-etition of material within the repeated structurestrengthens structural priming, have been observedfor short-term priming, but not for long-term prim-ing trials where material intervened between primeand target utterances (Konopka and Bock, 2005).Thus, short- and long-term adaptation effects may1in production and comprehension, which we will not dis-tinguish further for space reasons.
Our data are (off-line) pro-duction data.well be due to separate cognitive processes, as re-cently argued by (Ferreira and Bock, 2006).
Section5 deals with decay-based short-term priming, Sec-tion 6 with long-term adaptation.Pickering and Garrod (2004) do not make the typeof priming supporting alignment explicit.
Shouldwe find differences in the way task success interactswith different kinds of repetition effects, then thiswould be a good indication about what effect sup-ports IAM.
More concretely, we could say whetheralignment is due to the automatic, classical primingeffect, or whether it is based on a long-term effectthat is possibly closer to implicit learning (Changet al, 2006).5 Short-term primingIn this section, we attempt to detect differences inthe strength of short-term priming in successful andless successful dialogues.
To do so, we use the mea-sure of priming strength established by Reitter et al(2006b), which then allows us to test whether prim-ing interacts with task success.
Under the assump-tions of IAM we would expect successful dialoguesto show more priming than unsuccessful ones.Obviously, difficulties with the task at hand maybe due to a range of problems that the subjects mayhave, linguistic and otherwise.
But given that the di-alogues contain variable levels of syntactic priming,one would expect that this has at least some influ-ence on the outcome of the task.5.1 Method: Logistic RegressionWe used mixed-effects regression models that pre-dict a binary outcome (repetition) using a number ofdiscrete and continuous factors.2As a first step, our modeling effort tries to estab-lish a priming effect.
To do so, we can make useof the fact that the priming effect decays over time.How strong that decay is gives us an indication ofhow much repetition probability we see shortly afterthe stimulus (prime) compared to the probability ofchance repetition?without ever explicitly calculatingsuch a prior.Thus we define the strength of priming as the de-cay rate of repetition probability, from shortly after2We use Generalized Linear Mixed Effects models fitted us-ing GlmmPQL in the MASS R library.812the prime to 15 seconds afterward (predictor: DIST).Thus, we take several samples at varying distances(d), looking at cases of structural repetition, andcases where structure has not been repeated.In the syntactic context, syntactic rules such as VP?
VP PP reflect syntactic decisions.
Priming of asyntactic construction shows up in the tendency torepeat such rules in different lexical contexts.
Thus,we examine whether syntactic rules have been re-peated at a distance d. For each syntactic rule thatoccurs at time t1, we check a one-second time pe-riod [t1 ?
d ?
0.5, t1 ?
d + 0.5] for an occurrenceof the same rule, which would constitute a prime.Thus, the model will be able to implicitly estimatethe probability of repetition.Generalized Linear Regression Models (GLMs)can then model the decay by estimating the rela-tionship between d and the probability of rule repe-tition.
The model is designed to predict whether rep-etition will occur, or, more precisely, whether thereis a prime for a given target (priming).
Under a no-priming null-hypothesis, we would assume that thepriming probability is independent of d. If there ispriming, however, increasing d will negatively influ-ence the priming probability (decay).
So, we expecta model parameter (DIST) for d that is reliably neg-ative, and lower, if there is more priming.With this method, we draw multiple samples fromthe same utterance?for different d, but also for dif-ferent syntactic rules occurring in those utterances.Because these samples are inter-dependent, we usea grouping variable indicating the source utterance.Because the dataset is sparse with respect to PRIME,balanced sampling is needed to ensure an equalnumber of data points of priming and non-primingcases (PRIME) is included.This method has been previously used to confirmpriming effects for the general case of syntactic rulesby Reitter et al (2006b).
Additionally, the GLM cantake into account categorical and continuous covari-ates that may interact with the priming effect.
Inthe present experiment, we use an interaction termto model the effect of task success.3 The crucial in-teraction, in our case, is task success: PATHDEV isthe deviation of the paths that the interlocutors drew,3We use the A?B operator in the model formulas to indicatethe inclusion of main effects of the features A and B and theirinteractions A : B.normalized to the range [0,1].
The core model isthus PRIME ?
log(DIST) ?
PATHDEV.If IAM is correct, we would expect that the devia-tion of paths, which indicates negative task success,will negatively correlate with the priming effect.5.2 ResultsShort-term priming reliably correlated (negatively)with the distance, hence we see a decay and primingeffect (DIST, b = ?0.151, p < 0.0001, as shown inprevious work).Notably, path deviation and short-term primingdid not correlate.
The model showed was no suchinteraction (DIST:PATHDEV, p = 0.91).We also tested for an interaction with an ad-ditional factor indicating whether prime and tar-get were uttered by the same or a differentspeaker (comprehension-production vs. production-production priming).
No such interaction ap-proached reliability (log(DIST):PATHDEV:ROLE,p = 0.60).We also tested whether priming changes over timeover the course of each dialogue.
It does not.
Therewere no reliable interaction effects of centeredprime/target times (log(DIST):log(STARTTIME),p = 0.75, log(DIST):PATHDEV:log(STARTTIME),p = 0.63).
Reducing the model by removingunreliable interactions did not yield any reliableeffects.5.3 DiscussionWe have shown that while there is a clear primingeffect in the short term, the size of this priming effectdoes not correlate with task success.
There is noreliable interaction with success.Does this indicate that there is no strong func-tional component to priming in the dialogue con-text?
There may still be an influence of cognitiveload due to speakers working on the task, or an over-all disposition for higher priming in task-oriented di-alogue: Reitter et al (2006b) point at stronger prim-ing in such situations.
But our results here are diffi-cult to reconcile with the model suggested by Picker-ing and Garrod (2004), if we take short-term primingas the driving force behind IAM.Short-term priming decays within a few seconds.Thus, to what extent could syntactic priming help in-terlocutors align their situation models?
In the Map813Task experiments, interlocutors need to refer to land-marks regularly?but not every few seconds.
It wouldbe sensible to expect longer-term adaptation (withinminutes) to drive dialogue success.6 Long-term adapationLong-term adaptation is a form of priming thatoccurs over minutes and could, therefore, supportlinguistic and situation model alignment in task-oriented dialogue.
IAM and the success of theSVM based method could be based on such an ef-fect instead of short-term priming.
Analogous to thethe previous experiment, we hypothesize that moreadaptation relates to more task success.6.1 MethodAfter the initial few seconds, structural repetitionshows little decay, but can be demonstrated evenminutes or longer after the stimulus.
To measure thistype of adapation, we need a different strategy to es-timate the size of this effect.While short-term priming can be pin-pointed us-ing the characteristic decay, for long-term primingwe need to inspect whole dialogues and constructand contrast dialogues where priming is possible andones where it is not.
Factor SAMEDOC distinguishesthe two situations: 1) Priming can happen in con-tiguous dialogues.
We treat the first half of the dia-logue as priming period, and the rule instances in thesecond half as targets.
2) The control case is whenpriming cannot have taken place, i.e., between unre-lated dialogues.
Prime period and targets stem fromseparate randomly sampled dialogue halves that al-ways come from different dialogues.Thus, our model (PRIME ?
SAMEDOC ?PATHDEV) estimates the influence of priming onrule us.
From a Bayesian perspective, we wouldsay that the second kind of data (non-priming) al-low the model to estimate a prior for rule repetitions.The goal is now to establish a correlation betweenSAMEDOC and the existence of repetition.
If andonly if there is long-term adapation would we ex-pect such a correlation.Analogous to the short-term priming model, wedefine repetition as the occurrence of a prime withinthe first document half (PRIME), and sample rule in-stances from the second document half.
To exclude?????????
??
?0.0 0.5 1.00.820.840.860.880.900.92log path deviation (inverse success)relativerepetition (log?odds)more lesssuccesslessmoresyn.adaptationFigure 1: Relative rule repetition probability(chance repetition exluded) over (neg.)
task success.short-term priming effects, we drop a 10-second por-tion in the middle of the dialogues.Task success is inverse path deviation PATHDEVas before, which should, under IAM assumptions,interact with the effect estimated for SAMEDOC.6.2 ResultsLong-term repetition showed a positive priming ef-fect (SAMEDOC, b = 3.303, p < 0.0001).
Thisgeneralizes previous experimental priming results inlong-term priming.Long-term-repetition did not inter-act with (normalized) rule frequency(SAMEDOC:log(RULEFREQ, b = ?0.044, p =0.35).
The interaction was removed for all otherparameters reported.4The effect interacted reliably with the pathdeviation scores (SAMEDOC:PATHDEV, b =?0.624, p < 0.05).
We find a reliable correlationof task success and syntactic priming.
Stronger pathdeviations relate to weaker priming.6.3 DiscussionThe more priming we see, the better subjects per-form at synchronizing their routes on the maps.
Thisis exactly what one would expect under the assump-4Such an interaction also could not be found in a reducedmodel with only SAMEDOC and RULEFREQ.814tion of IAM.
Also, there is no evidence for strongerlong-term adaptation of rare rules, which may pointout a qualitative difference to short-term priming.Of course, this correlation does not necessarily in-dicate a causal relationship.
However, participantsin Map Task did not receive an explicit indicationabout whether they were on the ?right track?.
Mis-takes, such as passing a landmark on its East andnot on the West side, were made and went unno-ticed.
Thus, it is not very likely that task successcaused alignment to improve at large.
We suspectsuch a possibility, however, for very unsuccessfuldialogues.
A closer look at the correlation (Figure1) reveals that while adaptation indeed decreases astask success decreases, adaptation increased againfor some of the least successful dialogues.
It is pos-sible that here, miscoordination became apparent tothe participants, who then tried to switch strategies.Or, simply put: too much alignment (and too littlerisk-taking) is unhelpful.
Further, qualitative, workneeds to be done to investigate this hypothesis.From an applied perspective, the correlationshows that of the repetition effects included in ourtask-success prediction model, it is long-term syn-tactic adaptation as opposed to the more automaticshort-term priming effect that contributes to predic-tion accuracy.
We take this as an indication to in-clude adaptation rather than just priming in a modelof alignment in dialogue.7 ConclusionTask success in human-human dialogue ispredictable?the more successfully speakers collab-orate, the more they show linguistic adaptation.This confirms our initial hypothesis of IAM.
In theapplied model, knowledge of lexical and syntacticrepetition helps to determine task success even afterjust a few minutes of the conversation.We suggested two application-oriented tasks (es-timating and predicting task success) and an ap-proach to address them.
They now provide an op-portunity to explore and exploit other linguistic andextra-linguistic parameters.The second contribution is a closer inspection ofstructural repetition, which showed that it is long-term adaptation that varies with task success, whileshort-term priming appears largely autonomous.Long-term adaptation may thus be a strategy thataids dialogue partners in aligning their language andtheir situation models.AcknowledgmentsThe authors would like to thank Frank Keller and the reviewers.The first author is supported by the Edinburgh-Stanford Link.ReferencesA.
Anderson, M. Bader, E. Bard, E. Boyle, G. M. Doherty,S.
Garrod, S. Isard, J. Kowtko, J. McAllister, J. Miller,C.
Sotillo, H. Thompson, and R. Weinert.
1991.
The HCRCMap Task corpus.
Language and Speech, 34(4):351?366.J.
Kathryn Bock.
1986.
Syntactic persistence in language pro-duction.
Cognitive Psychology, 18:355?387.J.
Kathryn Bock and Zenzi Griffin.
2000.
The persistence ofstructural priming: transient activation or implicit learning?J of Experimental Psychology: General, 129:177?192.H.
P. Branigan, M. J. Pickering, and A.
A. Cleland.
1999.
Syn-tactic priming in language production: evidence for rapiddecay.
Psychonomic Bulletin and Review, 6(4):635?640.F.
Chang, G. Dell, and K. Bock.
2006.
Becoming syntactic.Psychological Review, 113(2):234?272.Kenneth W. Church.
2000.
Empirial estimates of adaptation:The chance of two noriegas is closer to p/2 than p2.
InColing-2000, Saarbru?cken, Germany.A.
Dubey, F. Keller, and P. Sturt.
2005.
Parallelism in coordi-nation as an instance of syntactic priming: Evidence fromcorpus-based modeling.
In Proc.
HLT/EMNLP-2005, pp.827?834.
Vancouver, Canada.Vic Ferreira and Kathryn Bock.
2006.
The functions of struc-tural priming.
Language and Cognitive Processes, 21(7-8).Stefan Th.
Gries.
2005.
Syntactic priming: A corpus-based ap-proach.
J of Psycholinguistic Research, 34(4):365?399.T.
Florian Ja?ger.
2006.
Redundancy and Syntactic Reduction inSpontaneous Speech.
Ph.D. thesis, Stanford University.Agnieszka Konopka and J. Kathryn Bock.
2005.
Helping syntaxout: What do words do?
In Proc.
18th CUNY.
Tucson, AZ.Martin J. Pickering and Holly P. Branigan.
1998.
The represen-tation of verbs: Evidence from syntactic priming in languageproduction.
Journal of Memory and Language, 39:633?651.Martin J. Pickering and Simon Garrod.
2004.
Toward a mech-anistic psychology of dialogue.
Behavioral and Brain Sci-ences, 27:169?225.D.
Reitter, J. Hockenmaier, and F. Keller.
2006a.
Prim-ing effects in Combinatory Categorial Grammar.
In Proc.EMNLP-2006, pp.308?316.
Sydney, Australia.D.
Reitter, J. D. Moore, and F. Keller.
2006b.
Priming of syn-tactic rules in task-oriented dialogue and spontaneous con-versation.
In Proc.
CogSci-2006, pp.
685?690.
Vancouver,Canada.Benedikt Szmrecsanyi.
2005.
Creatures of habit: A corpus-linguistic analysis of persistence in spoken english.
CorpusLinguistics and Linguistic Theory, 1(1):113?149.M.
Walker, I. Langkilde, J. Wright, A. Gorin, and D. Litman.2000.
Learning to predict problematic situations in a spokendialogue system: experiments with How may I help you?
InProc.
NAACL-2000, pp.
210?217.
San Francisco, CA.815
