Proceedings of the ACL 2007 Student Research Workshop, pages 61?66,Prague, June 2007. c?2007 Association for Computational LinguisticsIdentifying Linguistic Structure in a QuantitativeAnalysis of Dialect PronunciationJelena Prokic?Alfa-InformaticaUniversity of GroningenThe Netherlandsj.prokic@rug.nlAbstractThe aim of this paper is to present a newmethod for identifying linguistic structure inthe aggregate analysis of the language vari-ation.
The method consists of extracting themost frequent sound correspondences fromthe aligned transcriptions of words.
Basedon the extracted correspondences every siteis compared to all other sites, and a corre-spondence index is calculated for each site.This method enables us to identify sound al-ternations responsible for dialect divisionsand to measure the extent to which each al-ternation is responsible for the divisions ob-tained by the aggregate analysis.1 IntroductionComputational dialectometry is a multidisciplinaryfield that uses quantitative methods in order to mea-sure linguistic differences between the dialects.
Thedistances between the dialects are measured at dif-ferent levels (phonetic, lexical, syntactic) by aggre-gating over entire data sets.
The aggregate analysesdo not expose the underlying linguistic structure, i.e.the specific linguistic elements that contributed tothe differences between the dialects.
This is very of-ten seen as one of the main drawbacks of the dialec-tometry techniques and dialectometry itself.
Two at-tempts to overcome this drawback are presented inNerbonne (2005) and Nerbonne (2006).
In both ofthese papers the identification of linguistic structurein the aggregate analysis is based on the analysis ofthe pronunciation of the vowels found in the data set.In work presented in this paper the identificationof linguistic structure in the aggregate analysis isbased on the automatic extraction of regular soundcorrespondences which are further quantified in or-der to characterize each site based on the frequencyof a certain sound extracted from the pool of thesite?s pronunciation.
The results show that identifi-cation of regular sound correspondences can be suc-cessfully applied to the task of identifying linguisticstructure in the aggregate analysis of dialects basedon word pronunciations.The rest of the paper is structured as follows.
Sec-tion 2 gives an overview of the work previously donein the areas covered in this paper.
In Section 3 moreinformation on the aggregate analysis of Bulgariandialects is given.
Work done on the identification ofregular sound correspondences and their quantifica-tion is presented in Section 4.
Conclusion and sug-gestions for future work are given in Section 5.2 Previous WorkThe work presented in this paper can be divided intwo parts: the aggregate analysis of Bulgarian di-alects on one hand, and the identification of linguis-tic structure in the aggregate analysis on the other.
Inthis section the work closely related to the one pre-sented in this paper will be described in more detail.2.1 Aggregate Analysis of BulgarianDialectometry produces aggregate analyses of thedialect variations and has been done for differentlanguages.
For several languages aggregate analyseshave been successfully developed which distinguishvarious dialect areas within the language area.
The61most closely related to the work presented in this pa-per is quantitative analysis of Bulgarian dialect pro-nunciation reported in Osenova et al (2007).In work done by Osenova et al (2007) aggregateanalysis of pronunciation differences for Bulgarianwas done on the data set that comprised 36 wordpronunciations from 490 sites.
The data was digital-ized from the four-volume set of Atlases of Bulgar-ian Dialects (Stojkov and Bernstein, 1964; Stojkov,1966; Stojkov et al, 1974; Stojkov et al, 1981).Pronunciations of the same words were aligned andcompared using L04.1 Results were analyzed usingcluster analysis, composite clustering, and multidi-mensional scaling.
The analyses showed that resultsobtained using aggregate analysis of word pronunci-ations mostly conform with the traditional phoneticclassification of Bulgarian dialects as presented inStojkov (2002).2.2 Extraction of Linguistic StructureAlthough techniques in dialectometry have shownto be successful in the analysis of the dialect vari-ation, all of them aggregate over the entire availabledata, failing to extract linguistic structure from theaggregate analysis.
Two attempts to overcome thiswithdraw are presented in Nerbonne (2005) and Ner-bonne (2006).Nerbonne (2005) suggests aggregating over a lin-guistically interesting subset of the data.
Nerbonnecompares aggregate analysis restricted to vowel dif-ferences to those using the complete data set.
Re-sults have shown that vowels are probably respon-sible for a great deal of aggregate differences, sincethere was high correlation between differences ob-tained only by using vowels and by using completetranscriptions (r = 0.936).
Two ways of aggregateanalysis also resulted in comparable maps.
How-ever, no other subset has been analyzed in this pa-per, making it impossible to conclude how success-ful other subsets would be if similar analysis wasdone.The second paper (Nerbonne, 2006) applies fac-tor analysis to the result of the dialectometric analy-sis in order to extract linguistic structure.
The studyfocuses on the pronunciation of vowels found in the1L04 is a freely available software used for di-alectometry and cartography.
It can be found athttp://www.let.rug.nl/kleiweg/L04/data.
Out of 1132 different vowels found in the data204 vowel positions are investigated, where a vowelposition is, e.g., the first vowel in the word ?Wash-ington?
or the second vowel in the word ?thirty?.Factor analysis has shown that 3 factors are most im-portant, explaining 35% of the total amount of vari-ance.
The main drawback of applying this techniquein dialectometry is that it is not directly related to theaggregate analysis, but is rather an independent step.Just as in Nerbonne (2005), only vowels were exam-ined.2.3 Sound CorrespondencesIn his PhD thesis Kondrak (Kondrak, 2002) presentstechniques and algorithms for the reconstruction ofthe proto-languages from cognates.
In Chapter 6the focus is on the automatic determination of soundcorrespondences in bilingual word lists and the iden-tification of cognates on the basis of extracted cor-respondences.
Kondrak (2002) adopted Melamed?sparameter estimation models (Melamed, 2000) usedin statistical machine translation and successfullyapplied them to determination of sound correspon-dences, i.e.
diachronic phonology.
Kondrak in-duced a model of sound correspondence in bilin-gual word lists, where phoneme pairs with the high-est scores represent the most likely correspondences.The more regular sound correspondences the twowords share, the more likely it is that they are cog-nates and not borrowings.In this paper the identification of sound corre-spondences will be used to extract linguistic ele-ments (i.e.
phones) responsible for the dialect di-visions.
The method presented in this study differsgreatly from Kondrak?s in that he uses regular soundcorrespondences to directly compare two words anddetermine if they are cognates.
In this study ex-tracted sound correspondences are further quantifiedin order to characterize each site in the data set byassigning it a unique index.
This is the first time thatthis method has been applied in dialectometry.3 Aggregate AnalysisIn the first phase of this project L04 toolkit was usedin order to make an aggregate analysis of Bulgariandialects.
In this section more information on the dataset used in the project, as well as on the process ofthe aggregate analysis will be given.623.1 Data SetThe data used in this research, as well as the researchitself, are part of the project Buldialect?Measuringlinguistic unity and diversity in Europe.2 The dataset consisted of pronunciations of 117 words col-lected from 84 sites equally distributed all over Bul-garia.
It comprises nouns, pronouns, adjectives,verbs, adverbs and prepositions which can be foundin different word forms (singular and plural, 1st,2nd, and 3rd person verb forms, etc.
).3.2 Measuring of Dialect DistancesAggregate analysis of Bulgarian dialects done in thisproject was based on the phonetic distances betweenthe various pronunciations of a set of words.
Nomorphological, lexical, or syntactic variation wastaken into account.First, all word pronunciations were aligned basedon the following principles: a) a vowel can matchonly with the vowel b) a consonant can match onlywith the consonant c) [j] can match both vowels andconsonants.An example of the alignment of two pronuncia-tions is given in Figure 1.3g l "A v Ag l @ v "???????????
?-1 1Figure 1: Alignment of word pronunciation pairThe alignments were carried out using the Leven-sthein algorithm,4 which also results in the calcu-lation of a distance between each pair of words.The distance is the smallest number of insertions,deletions, and substitutions needed to transform onestring to the other.
In this work all three operationswere assigned the same value?1.
All words are rep-resented as series of phones which are not furtherdefined.
The result of comparing two phones can be1 or 0; they either match or they don?t.
In Figure 12The project is sponsored by Volkswagen Stiftung.More information can be found at http://www.sfs.uni-tuebingen.de/dialectometry3For technical reasons primary stress is indicated by a highvertical line before the syllable?s vowel.4Detailed explanation of Levensthein algorithm can befound in Heeringa (2004).the cheapest way to transform one pronunciation tothe other would be by making two substitutions: ["A]should be replaced by [@], and [A] by ["?
], meaningthat the distance between these two pronunciationsis 2.
The distance between each pair of pronunci-ations was further normalized by the length of thelongest alignment that gives the minimal cost.5 Af-ter normalization, we get the final distance betweentwo strings, which is 0.4 (2/5) in the example shownin Figure 1.
If there are more plausible alignmentswith the minimal cost, the longest is preferred.
Wordpronunciations collected from all sites are alignedand compared in this fashion, allowing us to cal-culate the distance between each pair of sites.
Thedifference between two locations is the mean of alldifferences between words collected from these twosites.Figure 2: Classification mapThe results were analyzed using clustering (Fig-ure 2) and multidimensional scaling (Figure 3).Clustering is a common technique in a statisticaldata analysis based on a partition of a set of ob-jects into groups or clusters (Manning and Sch?tze,1999).
Multidimensional scaling is data analysistechnique that provides a spatial display of the datarevealing relationships between the instances in thedata set (Davison, 1992).
On both the maps thebiggest division is between East and West.
The bor-der between these two areas goes around Pleven andTeteven, and it is the border of ?yat?
realization aspresented in the traditional dialectological atlases(Stojkov, 2002).
The most incoherent area is the5An interesting discussion on the normalization by lengthcan be found in Heeringa et al (2006).
In this paper the authorsreport that contrary to results from previous work (Heeringa,2004) non-normalized string distance measures are superior tonormalized ones.63area of Rodopi mountain, and the dialects presentin this area show the greatest similarity with the di-alects found in the Southeastern part around MalkoTyrnovo.
On the map in Figure 3 it is also possibleto distinguish the area around Golica and Kozichinoon the East, which conforms to the maps found inStojkov (2002).
Results of the aggregate analysisconform both to the traditional maps presented inStojkov (2002), and to the work reported in Osen-ova et al (2007).Figure 3: MDS map4 Regular Sound CorrespondencesThe same data used for the aggregate analysis wasreused to extract sound correspondences and to iden-tify underlying linguistic structure in the aggregateanalysis.
The method and the obtained results willbe presented in more detail.4.1 MethodFrom the aligned pairs of word pronunciations allnon-matching segments were extracted and sortedaccording to their frequency.
In the entire data setthere were 683 different pairs of sound correspon-dences that appeared 955199 times.e i 36565 j - 21361@ ?
26398 A @ 20515o u 26108 e "e 19934"6 "e 23689 r rj 19787v - 22100 "?
- 18867Table 1: Most frequent sound correspondencesThe most frequent correspondences were taken tobe the most important sound alternations responsi-ble for dialect variation.
The method was tested onthe 10 most frequent correspondences which wereresponsible for the 25% of sound alternations in thewhole data set.In order to determine which of the extracted soundcorrespondences is responsible for which of the di-visions present in the aggregate analysis, each sitewas compared to all other sites with respect to the10 most frequent sound correspondences.
For eachpair of sites all sound correspondences were ex-tracted, including both matching and non-matchingsegments.
For further analysis it was important todistinguish which sound comes from which place.For each pair of the sound correspondences fromTable 1 a correspondence index is calculated foreach site using the following formula:1n?
1n?i=1,j 6=isi?
?s?j (1)where n represents the number of sites, and si?
?s?jthe comparison of each two sites (i, j) with respectto the sound correspondence s/s?.
si?
?s?j is calcu-lated applying the following formula:|si, s?j ||si, s?j |+ |si, sj |(2)In the above formula si and s?j stand for the pair ofsounds involved in one of the most frequent soundcorrespondences from Table 1.
|si, s?j | represents thenumber of times s is seen in the word pronunciationscollected at site i, aligned with the s?
in word pro-nunciations collected at site j.
|si, sj | is the numberof times s stayed unchanged.
For each pair of soundcorrespondences a correspondence index was calcu-lated for the s, s?
correspondence, as well as for thes?, s correspondence.
For example, for the pair ofcorrespondences [e] and [i], the relation of [e] cor-responding to [i] is separated from the relation of [i]corresponding to [e].6For example, the indices for the sites Aldomirovciand Borisovo with respect to the sound correspon-dence [e]-[i] were calculated in the following way.In the file with the sound correspondences extractedfrom all aligned word pronunciations collected at6It would also be possible to modify this formula and calcu-late the ratio of s to s corresponding to any other sound.
In thiscase the result would be a very small number of sites with thevery high correspondence index.64these two sites, the algorithm searches for pairs rep-resented in Table 2:Aldomirovci e i eBorisovo i e eno.
of correspondences 24 0 3Table 2: How often [e] corresponds to [i] and [e]For each of the sites the indices were calculated us-ing the above formula.
The index for site i (Al-domirovci) was:|e, i||e, i|+ |e, e| =2424 + 3 = 0.89 (3)The index for site j (Borisovo) was calculated in thesimilar fashion from the Table 2:|e, i||e, i|+ |e, e| =00 + 3 = 0.00 (4)Each of these two sites was compared to all othersites with respect to the [e]-[i] correspondence re-sulting in 83 indices for each site.
The general cor-respondence index for each site represents the meanof all 83 indices.
For the site i (Aldomirovci) gen-eral index was 0.40, and for the site j (Borisovo)0.21.
Sites with the higher values of the general cor-respondence index represent the sites where sound[e] tends to be present, with respect to the [e]-[i]correspondence (see Figure 4).
In the same fash-ion general correspondence indices were calculatedfor every site with respect to each pair of the mostfrequent correspondences (Table 1).4.2 ResultsThe methods described in the previous section wereapplied to all phone pairs from the Table 1, resultingin 17 different divisions of the sites.7Data obtained by the analysis of sound correspon-dences, i.e.
indices of correspondences for sites wasused to draw maps in which every site is set off byVoronoi tessellation from all other sites, and shadedbased on the value of the general correspondence in-dex.
Light polygons on the map represent areas with7For three pairs where one sound doesn?t have a correspond-ing one (when there was an insertion or deletion) it is not pos-sible to calculate an index.
Formulas for comparing two sitesfrom the previous section would always give value 1 for the in-dex.the higher values of the correspondence index, i.e.areas where the first sound in the examined alterna-tion tends to be present.
This technique enables usto visualize the geographical distribution of the ex-amined sounds.
For example, map in Figure 4 rep-Figure 4: Distribution of [e] soundresents geographical distribution of sound [e] withrespect to the [e]-[i] correspondence, while map inFigure 5 reveals the presence of the sound [i] withrespect to the [i]-[e] correspondence.Figure 5: Distribution of [i] soundIn order to compare the dialect divisions obtainedby the aggregate analysis, and those based on thegeneral correspondence index for a certain phonepair, correlation coefficient was calculated for these2 sets of distances.
The results are shown in Ta-ble 3.
Dialect divisions based on the [r]-[rj] and [i]-[e] alternations have the highest correlation with thedistances obtained by the aggregate analysis.
Thesquare of the Pearson correlation coefficient pre-sented in column 3 enables us to see that 39.0% and30.7% of the variance in the aggregate analysis canbe explained by these two sound alternations.65Correspondence Correlation r2x100(%)[e]-[i] 0.19 3.7[i]-[e] 0.55 30.7[@]-[?]
0.26 6.7[?
]-[@] 0.23 5.3[o]-[u] 0.49 24.4[u]-[o] 0.43 18.9["A]-["e] 0.49 24.3["e]-["A] 0.38 14.2[v]- - 0.14 2.0[j]- - 0.20 4.0[A]-[@] 0.51 26.5[@]-[A] 0.26 7.0[e]-["e] 0.18 3.2["e]-[e] 0.23 5.2[r]-[rj] 0.62 39.0[rj]-[r] 0.53 28.1["?
]- - 0.17 2.9Table 3: Correlation coefficient5 Conclusion and Future WorkThe dialect division of Bulgaria based on the aggre-gate analysis presented in this paper conforms bothto traditional maps (Stojkov, 2002) and to the workreported in Osenova et al (2007), suggesting thatthe novel data used in this project is representative.The method of quantification of regular sound corre-spondences described in the second part of the paperwas successful in the identification of the underlyinglinguistic structure of the dialect divisions.
It is animportant step towards more general investigation ofthe role of the regular sound changes in the languagedialect variation.
The main drawback of the methodis that it analyzes one sound alternation at the time,while in the real data it is often the case that onesound corresponds to several other sounds and thatsound correspondences involve series of segments.In future work some kind of a feature represen-tation of segments should be included in the anal-ysis in order to deal with the drawbacks noted.
Itwould also be very important to analyze the contextin which examined sounds appear, since we can talkabout regular sound changes only with respect to thecertain phonological environments.ReferencesMark L. Davison.
1992.
Multidimensional scaling.
Mel-bourne, Fl.
CA: Krieger Publishing Company.Wilbert Heeringa, Peter Kleiweg, Charlotte Gooskens,and John Nerbonne.
2006.
Evaluation of StringDistance Algorithms for Dialectology.
In John Ner-bonne and Erhard Hinrichs, editors, Linguistic Dis-tances.
Workshop at the joint conference of Interna-tional Committee on Computational Linguistics andthe Association for Computational Linguistics, Syd-ney.Wilbert Heeringa.
2004.
Measuring Dialect Pronunci-ation Differences using Levensthein Distance.
PhDThesis, University of Groningen.Grzegorz Kondrak.
2002.
Algorithms for Language Re-construction.
PhD Thesis, University of Toronto.Chris Manning and Hinrich Sch?tze.
1999.
Founda-tions of Statistical Natural Language Processing.
MITPress.
Cambridge, MA.I.
Dan Melamed.
2000.
Models of translational equiv-alence among words.
Computational Linguistics,26(2):221?249.John Nerbonne.
2005.
Various Variation Aggregates inthe LAMSAS South.
In Catherine Davis and MichaelPicone, editors, Language Variety in the South III.
Uni-versity of Alabama Press, Tuscaloosa.John Nerbonne.
2006.
Identifying Linguistic Structurein Aggregate Comparison.
Literary and LinguisticComputing, 21(4).Petya Osenova, Wilbert Heeringa, and John Nerbonne.2007.
A Quantitive Analysis of Bulgarian DialectPronunciation.
Accepted to appear in Zeitschrift f?rslavische Philologie.Stojko Stojkov and Samuil B. Bernstein.
1964.
Atlas ofBulgarian Dialects: Southeastern Bulgaria.
Publish-ing House of Bulgarian Academy of Science, volumeI, Sofia, Bulgaria.Stojko Stojkov, Kiril Mirchev, Ivan Kochev, and Mak-sim Mladenov.
1974.
Atlas of Bulgarian Dialects:Southwestern Bulgaria.
Publishing House of Bulgar-ian Academy of Science, volume III, Sofia, Bulgaria.Stojko Stojkov, Ivan Kochev, and Maksim Mladenov.1981.
Atlas of Bulgarian Dialects: Northwestern Bul-garia.
Publishing House of Bulgarian Academy ofScience, volume IV, Sofia, Bulgaria.Stojko Stojkov.
1966.
Atlas of Bulgarian Dialects:Northeastern Bulgaria.
Publishing House of Bulgar-ian Academy of Science, volume II, Sofia, Bulgaria.Stojko Stojkov.
2002.
Bulgarska dialektologiya.
Sofia,4th ed.66
