Proceedings of the ACL 2007 Demo and Poster Sessions, pages 169?172,Prague, June 2007. c?2007 Association for Computational LinguisticsAn OWL Ontology for HPSGGraham WilcockUniversity of HelsinkiPO Box 900014 Helsinki, Finlandgraham.wilcock@helsinki.fiAbstractThe paper presents an OWL ontology forHPSG.
The HPSG ontology is integratedwith an existing OWL ontology, GOLD, as acommunity of practice extension.
The basicideas are illustrated by visualizations of typehierarchies for parts of speech.1 IntroductionThe paper presents an OWL ontology for HPSG(Head-driven Phrase Structure Grammar) (Sag et al,2003).
OWL is the W3C Web Ontology Language(http://www.w3.org/2004/OWL).
An existing ontol-ogy is used as a starting point: GOLD (Section 2)is a general ontology for linguistic description.
AsHPSG is a more specific linguistic theory, the HPSGontology (Section 3) is integrated inside GOLD asa sub-ontology known as a community of practiceextension (Section 4).2 GOLD: A General Ontology forLinguistic DescriptionGOLD, a General Ontology for Linguistic Descrip-tion (http://www.linguistics-ontology.org/) (Farrarand Langendoen, 2003) is an OWL ontology thataims to capture ?the general knowledge of the fieldthat is usually possessed by a well trained linguist.This includes knowledge that potentially forms thebasis of any theoretical framework.
In particular,GOLD captures the fundamentals of descriptive lin-guistics.
Examples of such knowledge are ?a verbis a part of speech?, ?gender can be semanticallygrounded?, or ?linguistic expressions realize mor-phemes?.?
(Farrar and Lewis, 2005).As far as possible GOLD uses language-neutraland theory-neutral terminology.
For instance, partsof speech are subclasses of gold:GrammaticalUnitas shown in Figure 1.
As GOLD is language-neutral,a wide range of parts of speech are included.
Forexample, both Preposition and Postposition are in-cluded as subclasses of Adposition.
The classes inthe OWLViz graphical visualization (on the right inFigure 1) have been selected from the complete listin the Asserted Hierarchy (on the left).Originally GOLD was intended to be neutralwhere linguistic theories had divergent views, buta recent development is the idea of supporting dif-ferent sub-communities as communities of practice(Farrar and Lewis, 2005) within the GOLD frame-work.
A community of practice may focus on de-veloping a consensus in a specific area, for examplein phonology or in Bantu languages.
On the otherhand, communities of practice may focus on com-peting theories, where each sub-community has itsown distinctive terminology and divergent concep-tualization.
In this case, the aim is to capture ex-plicitly the relationship between the sub-communityview and the overall framework, in the form of aCommunity Of Practice Extension (COPE) (Farrarand Lewis, 2005).
A COPE is a sub-ontology thatinherits from, and extends, the overall GOLD on-tology.
Sub-ontology classes are distinguished fromeach other by different namespace prefixes, for ex-ample gold:Noun and hpsg:noun.3 An OWL Ontology for HPSGHPSG OWL is an OWL ontology for HPSG that iscurrently under development.
As the aims of the firstversion of the ontology are clarity and acceptability,169Figure 1: Parts of speech in GOLDit carefully follows the standard textbook version ofHPSG by Sag et al (2003).
This also means that thefirst version is English-specific, as the core gram-mars presented in the textbook are English-specific.In HPSG OWL, parts of speech are subclasses ofhpsg:pos, as shown in Figure 2.
As this version isEnglish-specific, it has prepositions (hpsg:prep) butnot postpositions.
Parts of speech that have agree-ment features (in English) form a distinct subclasshpsg:agr-pos including hpsg:det (determiner) andhpsg:verb.
Within hpsg:agr-pos, hpsg:comp (com-plementizer) and hpsg:noun form a further subclasshpsg:nominal.
This particular conceptualization ofthe type hierarchy is specific to (Sag et al, 2003).The Prote?ge?-OWL (http://protege.stanford.edu)ontology editor supports both visual constructionand visual editing of the hierarchy.
For example, ifhpsg:adj had agreement features, it could be movedunder hpsg:agr-pos by a simple drag-and-drop (inthe Asserted Hierarchy pane on the left).
Both thevisualization (in the OWLViz pane on the right) andthe underlying OWL statements (not shown) are au-tomatically generated.
The grammar writer does notedit OWL statements directly.This is a significant advantage of the new technol-ogy over current grammar development tools.
Forexample, LKB (Copestake, 2002) can produce a vi-sualization of the type hierarchy from the underlyingType Definition Language (TDL) statements, but thehierarchy can only be modified by textually editingthe TDL statements.4 A Community of Practice ExtensionHPSG COPE is a community of practice extensionthat integrates the HPSG ontology within GOLD.The COPE is an OWL ontology that imports boththe GOLD and the HPSG ontologies.
Apart fromthe import statements, the COPE consists entirely of170Figure 2: Parts of speech in HPSGrdfs:subClassOf and rdfs:subPropertyOf statements.HPSG COPE defines HPSG classes as subclasses ofGOLD classes and HPSG properties as subproper-ties of GOLD properties.In the COPE, parts of speech in HPSG are sub-sumed by appropriate parts of speech in GOLD,as shown in Figure 3.
In some cases this isstraightforward, for example hpsg:adj is mapped togold:Adjective.
In other cases, the HPSG theory-specific terminology differs significantly from thetheory-neutral terminology in GOLD.
Some ofthe mappings are based on definitions of theHPSG terms given in a glossary in (Sag et al,2003), for example the mapping of hpsg:conj(conjunction) to gold:CoordinatingConnective andthe mapping of hpsg:comp (complementizer) togold:SubordinatingConnective.Properties in HPSG OWL are defined by HPSGCOPE as subproperties of GOLD properties.
For ex-ample, the HPSG OWL class hpsg:sign (Sag et al,2003) (p. 475) properties:PHON type: list (a sequence of word forms)SYN type: gram-cat (a grammatical category)SEM type: sem-struc (a semantic structure)are mapped to the GOLD class gold:LinguisticSignproperties:hasForm Range: PhonologicalUnithasGrammar Range: GrammaticalUnithasMeaning Range: SemanticUnitby the HPSG COPE rdfs:subPropertyOf definitions:hpsg:PHON subproperty of gold:hasFormhpsg:SYN subproperty of gold:hasGrammarhpsg:SEM subproperty of gold:hasMeaning5 ConclusionThe paper has described an initial version of anOWL ontology for HPSG, together with an approachto integrating it with GOLD as a community of prac-171Figure 3: Parts of speech in the Community of Practice Extensiontice extension.
Perhaps a rigorous foundation oftyped feature structures and a clear type hierarchymakes HPSG more amenable to expression as an on-tology than other linguistic theories.Prote?ge?-OWL supports visual development andvisual editing of the ontology.
This is a significantpractical advantage over existing grammar develop-ment tools.
OWLViz provides graphical visualiza-tions of any part of the ontology.OWL DL (Description Logic) reasoners can berun inside Prote?ge?
to check consistency and to docross-classification.
One current research topic ishow to exploit reasoners to perform automaticallythe kind of cross-classification that is widely used inHPSG linguistic analyses.Another current topic is how to implement HPSGlexical rules and grammar rules in the ontology.
Aninteresting possibility is to use the W3C SemanticWeb Rule Language, SWRL (Wilcock, 2006).ReferencesAnn Copestake.
2002.
Implementing Typed FeatureStructure Grammars.
CSLI Publications, Stanford,CA.Scott Farrar and D. Terence Langendoen.
2003.
A lin-guistic ontology for the semantic web.
GLOT Interna-tional, 7.3:97?100.Scott Farrar and William D. Lewis.
2005.
The GOLDCommunity of Practice: An infrastructure for linguis-tic data on the web.
http://www.u.arizona.edu/?farrar/.Ivan A.
Sag, Thomas Wasow, and Emily Bender.
2003.Syntactic Theory: A Formal Introduction.
CSLI Pub-lications, Stanford, CA.Graham Wilcock.
2006.
Natural language parsing withGOLD and SWRL.
In RuleML-2006, Rules and RuleMarkup Languages for the Semantic Web (Online Pro-ceedings), Athens, GA.172
