Proceedings of the ACL 2007 Student Research Workshop, pages 91?96,Prague, June 2007. c?2007 Association for Computational LinguisticsClustering Hungarian Verbs on the Basis of Complementation PatternsKata Ga?borDept.
of Language TechnologyLinguistics Institute, HAS1399 Budapest, P. O.
Box 701/518Hungarygkata@nytud.huEniko?
He?jaDept.
of Language TechnologyLinguistics Institute, HAS1399 Budapest, P. O.
Box 701/518Hungaryeheja@nytud.huAbstractOur paper reports an attempt to apply an un-supervised clustering algorithm to a Hun-garian treebank in order to obtain seman-tic verb classes.
Starting from the hypo-thesis that semantic metapredicates underlieverbs?
syntactic realization, we investigatehow one can obtain semantically motivatedverb classes by automatic means.
The 150most frequent Hungarian verbs were clus-tered on the basis of their complementationpatterns, yielding a set of basic classes andhints about the features that determine ver-bal subcategorization.
The resulting classesserve as a basis for the subsequent analysisof their alternation behavior.1 IntroductionFor over a decade, automatic construction of wide-coverage structured lexicons has been in the centerof interest in the natural language processing com-munity.
On the one hand, structured lexical data-bases are easier to handle and to expand becausethey allow making generalizations over classes ofwords.
On the other hand, interest in the automaticacquisition of lexical information from corpora isdue to the fact that manual construction of such re-sources is time-consuming, and the resulting data-base is difficult to update.
Most of the work inthe field of acquisition of verbal lexical propertiesaims at learning subcategorization frames from cor-pora e.g.
(Pereira et al, 1993; Briscoe and Car-roll, 1997; Sass, 2006).
However, semantic group-ing of verbs on the basis of their syntactic distribu-tion or other quantifiable features has also gained at-tention (Schulte im Walde, 2000; Schulte im Waldeand Brew, 2002; Merlo and Stevenson, 2001; Dorrand Jones, 1996).
The goal of these investigations iseither the validation of verb classes based on (Levin,1993), or finding algorithms for the categorization ofnew verbs.Unlike these projects, we report an attempt tocluster verbs on the basis of their syntactic proper-ties with the further goal of identifying the seman-tic classes relevant for the description of Hungarianverbs?
alternation behavior.
The theoretical ground-ing of our clustering attempts is provided by theso-called Semantic Base Hypothesis (Levin, 1993;Koenig et al, 2003).
It is founded on the observationthat semantically similar verbs tend to occur in simi-lar syntactic contexts, leading to the assumption thatverbal semantics determines argument structure andthe surface realization of arguments.
While in Eng-lish semantic argument roles are mapped to confi-gurational positions in the tree structure, Hungariancodes complement structure in its highly rich nom-inal inflection system.
Therefore, we start from theexamination of case-marked NPs in the context ofverbs.The experiment discussed in this paper is the firststage of an ongoing project for finding the semanticverb classes which are syntactically relevant in Hun-garian.
As we do not have presuppositions aboutwhich classes have to be used, we chose an unsu-pervised clustering method described in (Schulteim Walde, 2000).
The 150 most frequent Hunga-rian verbs were categorized according to their comp-91lementation structures in a syntactically annotatedcorpus, the Szeged Treebank (Csendes et al, 2005).We are seeking the answer to two questions:1.
Are the resulting clusters semantically coherent(thus reinforcing the Semantic Base Hypothe-sis)?2.
If so, what are the alternations responsible fortheir similar behavior?The subsequent sections present the input features[2] and the clustering methods [3], followed by thepresentation of our results [4].
Problematic issuesraised by the evaluation are discussed in [5].
Futurework is outlined in [6].
The paper ends with the con-clusions [7].2 Feature SpaceAs currently available Hungarian parsers (Babarczyet al, 2005; Ga?bor and He?ja, 2005) cannot be usedsatisfactorily for extracting verbal argument struc-tures from corpora, the first experiment was carriedout using a manually annotated Hungarian corpus,the Szeged Treebank.
Texts of the corpus come fromdifferent topic areas such as business news, dailynews, fiction, law, and compositions of students.
Itcurrently comprises 1.2 million words with POS tag-ging and syntactic annotation which extends to top-level sentence constituents but does not differentiatebetween complements and adjuncts.When applying a classification or clustering algo-rithm to a corpus, a crucial question is which quan-tifiable features reflect the most precisely the lin-guistic properties underlying word classes.
(Brent,1993) uses regular patterns.
(Schulte im Walde,2000; Schulte im Walde and Brew, 2002; Briscoeand Carroll, 1997) use subcategorization framefrequencies obtained from parsed corpora, poten-tially completed by semantic selection information.
(Merlo and Stevenson, 2001) approximates diathesisalternations by hand-selected grammatical features.While this method has the advantage of working onPOS-tagged, unparsed corpora, it is costly with res-pect to time and linguistic expertise.
To overcomethis drawback, (Joanis and Stevenson, 2003) de-velop a general feature space for supervised verbclassification.
(Stevenson and Joanis, 2003) inves-tigate the applicability of this general feature spaceto unsupervised verb clustering tasks.
As unsuper-vised methods are more sensitive to noisy features,the key issue is to filter out the large number ofprobably irrelevant features.
They propose a semi-supervised feature selection method which outper-forms both hand-selection of features and usage ofthe full feature set.As in our experiment we do not have a pre-definedset of semantic classes, we need to apply unsu-pervised methods.
Neither have we manually de-fined grammatical cues, not knowing which alter-nations should be approximated.
Hence, similarlyto (Schulte im Walde, 2000), we represent verbs bytheir subcategorization frames.In accordance with the annotation of the treebank,we included both complements and adjuncts in sub-categorization patterns.
It is important to note, how-ever, that not only practical considerations lead usto this decision.
First, there are no reliable syntactictests for differentiating complements from adjuncts.This is due to the fact that Hungarian is a highly in-flective, non-configurational language, where con-stituent order does not reveal dependency relations.Indeed, complements and adjuncts of verbs tend tomingle.
In parallel, Hungarian presents a very richnominal inflection system: there are 19 case suf-fixes, and most of them can correspond to more thanone syntactic function, depending on the verb classthey occur with.
Second, we believe that adjunctscan be at least as revealing of verbal meaning ascomplements are: many of them are not productive(in the sense that they cannot be added to any verb),they can only appear with predicates the meaning ofwhich is compatible with the semantic role of the ad-junct.
For these considerations we chose to includeboth complements and adjuncts in subcategorizationpatterns.Subcategorization frames to be extracted fromthe treebank are composed of case-marked NPsand infinitives that belong to a children node ofthe verb?s maximal projection.
As Hungarian is anon-configurational language, this operation simplyyields a non-ordered list of the verb?s syntactic de-pendents.
There was no upper bound on the num-ber of syntactic dependents to be included in theframe.
Frame types were obtained from individualframes by omitting lexical information as well asevery piece of morphosyntactic description except92for the POS tag and the case suffix.
The generaliza-tion yielded 839 frame types altogether.13 Clustering MethodsIn accordance with our goal to set up a basis fora semantic classification, we chose to perform thefirst clustering trial on the 150 most frequent verbsin the Szeged Treebank.
The representation of verbsand the clustering process were carried out based on(Schulte im Walde, 2000).
The data to be comparedwere the maximum likelihood estimates of the pro-bability distribution of verbs over the possible frametypes:p(t|v) = f(v, t)f(v) (1)with f(v) being the frequency of the verb, andf(v, t) being the frequency of the verb in the frame.These values have been calculated for each of the150 verbs and 839 frame types.Probability distributions were compared using re-lative entropy as a distance measure:D(x?y) =n?i=1xi ?
log xiyi (2)Due to the large number of subcategorizationframe types, verbs?
representation comprise a lot ofzero probability figures.
Using relative entropy asa distance measure compels us to apply a smoothingtechnique to be able to deal with these figures.
How-ever, we do not want to lose the information codedin zero frequencies - namely, the presumable incom-patibility of the verb with certain semantic roles as-sociated with specific case suffixes.
Since we workwith the 150 most frequent verbs, we wish to usea method which is apt to reflect that a gap in thecase of a high-frequency lemma is more likely to bean impossible event than in the case of a relativelyless frequent lemma (where it might as well be acci-dental).
That is why we have chosen the smoothingtechnique below:fe = 0, 001f(v) iffc(t, v) = 0(3)1The order in which syntactic dependents appear in the sen-tence was not taken into account.where fe is the estimated and fc is the observed fre-quency.Two alternative bottom-up clustering algorithmswere then applied to the data:1.
First we employed an agglomerative clusteringmethod, starting from 150 singleton clusters.At every iteration we merged the two most sim-ilar clusters and re-counted the distance mea-sures.
The problem with this approach, asSchulte im Walde notes on her experiment, isthat verbs tend to gather in a small number ofbig classes after a few iterations.
To avoid this,we followed her in setting to four the maximumnumber of elements occuring in a cluster.
Thismethod - and the size of the corpus - allowedus to categorize 120 out of 150 verbs into 38clusters, as going on with the process wouldhave led us to considerably less coherent clus-ters.
However, the results confronted us withthe chaining effect, i.e.
some of the clustershad a relatively big distance between their leastsimilar members.2.
In the second experiment we put a restrictionon the distance between each pair of verbs be-longing to the same cluster.
That is, in order fora new verb to be added to a cluster, its distancefrom all of the current cluster members had tobe smaller than the maximum distance statedbased on test runs.
In this experiment we couldcategorize 71 verbs into 23 clusters.
The con-venience of this method over the first one is itsability to produce popular yet coherent clusters,which is a particularly valuable feature giventhat our goal at this stage is to establish basicverb classes for Hungarian.
However, we arealso planning to run a top-down clustering al-gorithm on the data to get a probably more pre-cise overview of their structure.4 ResultsWith both methods we describe in Section 3, a bigpart of the verbs showed a tendency to gather to-gether in a few but popular clusters, while the restof them were typically paired with their nearestsynonym (e.g.
: za?r (close) with ve?gez (finish) orantonym (e.g.
: u?l (sit) with a?ll (stand)).
Naturally,93method 1 (i.e.
placing an upper limit on the num-ber of verbs within a cluster) produced more clus-ters and gave more valuable results on the least fre-quent verbs.
On the other hand, method 2 (i.e.
plac-ing an upper limit on the distance between each pairof verbs within the class) is more efficient for iden-tifying basic verb classes with a lot of members.Given our objective to provide a Levin-type classi-fication for Hungarian, we need to examine whetherthe clusters are semantically coherent, and if so,what kind of semantic properties are shared amongclass members.
The three most popular verb clusterswere investigated first, because they contain manyof the most frequent verbs and yet are characterizedby strong inter-cluster coherence due to the methodused.
The three clusters absorbed one third of the 71categorized verbs.
The clusters are the following:C-1 VERBS OF BEING: marad (remain), van (be),lesz (become), nincs (not being)C-2 MODALS: megpro?ba?l (try out), pro?ba?l (try),szokik (used to), szeret (like), akar (want),elkezd (start), fog (will), k?
?va?n (wish), kell(must)C-3 MOVEMENT VERBS: indul (leave), jo?n (come),elindul (depart), megy (go), kimegy (go out),elmegy (go away)Verb clusters C-1 and C-3 exhibit intuitivelystrong semantic coherence, whereas C-2 is best de-fined along syntactic lines as ?modals?.
A subclassof C-2 is composed of verbs which express somemental attitude towards undertaking an action, e.g.
(szeret (like), akar (want), k?
?va?n (wish)), but for therest of the verbs it is hard to capture shared meaningcomponents.It can be said in general about the clusters ob-tained that many of them can be anchored to ge-neral semantic metapredicates or one of the argu-ments?
semantic role, e.g.
: CHANGE OF STATEVERBS (ero?so?dik (get stronger), gyengu?l (intransi-tive weaken), emelkedik (intransitive rise)), verbswith a beneficiary role (biztos?
?t (guarantee), ad(give), nyu?jt (provide), ke?sz?
?t(make)), VERBS OFABILITY (sikeru?l (succeed), lehet (be possible), tud(be able, can)).
Some clusters seem to result from atighter semantic relation, e.g.
VERBS OF APPEA-RANCE or VERBS OF JUDGEMENT were put to-gether.
In other cases the relation is broader as verbsbelonging to the class seem to share only aspectualcharacteristics, e.g.
AGENTIVE VERBS OF CONTI-NUOS ACTIVITIES (u?l (be sitting), a?ll (be standing),lakik (live somewhere), dolgozik (work)).
At theother end of the scale we find one group of verbswhich ?accidentally?
share the same syntactic pat-terns without being semantically related (foglalkozik(deal with sg), tala?lkozik (meet sy), rendelkezik (dis-pose of sg)).5 Evaluation and DiscussionAs (Schulte im Walde, 2007) notes, there is nowidely accepted practice of evaluating semanticverb classes.
She divides the methods into two majorclasses.
The first type of methods assess whether theresulting clusters are coherent enough, i. e. elementsbelonging to the same cluster are closer to each otherthan to elements outside the class, according to anindependent similarity/distance measure.
However,relying on such a method would not help us eva-luating the semantic coherence of our classes.
Thesecond type of methods use gold standards.
Widelyaccepted gold standards in this field are Levin?s verbclasses or verbal WordNets.
As we do not disposeof a Hungarian equivalent of Levin?s classification?
that is exactly why we experiment with automaticclustering ?
we cannot use it directly.We also run across difficulties when consideringHungarian verbal WordNet (Kuti et al, 2005) as thestandard for evaluation.
Mapping verb clusters tothe net would require to state semantic relatednessin terms of WordNet-type hierarchy relations.
How-ever, if we try to capture the distance between verbalmeanings by the number of intermediary nodes inthe WordNet, we face the problem that the semanticdistance between mother-children nodes is not uni-form.As our work is about obtaining a Levin-type verbclassification, it could be an obvious choice to eva-luate semantic classes by collecting alternations spe-cific to the given class.
Hungarian language hardlylends itself to this method because of its peculiarsyntactic features.
The large number of subcatego-rization frames and the optionality of most comple-ments and adjuncts yield too much possible alterna-94acc ins abl elaindul - ins/com source sourcejo?n - ins/com source sourceelindul - ins/com source sourcemegy - ins/com source sourcekimegy - ins/com source sourceelmegy - ins/com source sourceTable 1: The semantic roles of cases beside C-3 verbclustertions.
Hence, we decided to narrow down the scopeof investigation.
We start from verb clusters and themeaning components their members share.
Then weattempt to discover which semantic roles can be li-cenced by these meaning components.
If verbs inthe same cluster agree both in being compatible withthe same semantic roles and in the syntactic encod-ing of these roles, we consider that they form a cor-rect cluster.To put it somewhat more formally, we representverb classes by matrices with a) nominal case suf-fixes in columns and b) individual verb lemmata inrows.
The first step of the evaluation process is to fillin the cells with the semantic roles the given suffixcan code in the context of the verb.
We consider theclusters correct, if the corresponding matrices meettwo requirements:1.
They have to be specific to the cluster.2.
Cells in the same column have to contain thesame semantic role.Tables 1. and 2. illustrate coherent and distinctivecase matrices2.According to Table 1. ablative case, just as e-lative, codes a physical source in the environmentof movement verbs.
Both cases having the samesemantic role, the decision between them is deter-mined by the semantics of the corresponding NP.These cases code an other semantic role ?
cause ?in the case of verbs of existence (Table 2).It is important to note that we do not dispose of apreliminary list of semantic roles.
To avoid arbitrary2Com is for comitative ?
approximately encoding the mean-ing ?together with?
, ins is for the instrument of the describedevent, source denotes a starting point in the space, cause refersto entity which evoked the eventuality described by the verb.acc ins abl elamarad - com cause materialvan - com cause materiallesz - com cause materialnincs - com cause materialTable 2: The semantic roles of cases beside C-1 verbclusteror vague role specifications, we need more than onepersons to fill in the cells, based on example sen-tences.6 Future WorkThere are two major directions regarding our fu-ture work.
With respect to the automatic cluster-ing process, we have the intention of widening thescope of the grammatical features to be comparedby enriching subcategorization frames by other mor-phological properties.
We are also planning to testtop-down clustering methods such as the one de-scribed in (Pereira et al, 1993).
On the long run, itwill be inevitable to make experiments on larger cor-pora.
The obvious choice is the 180 million wordsHungarian National Corpus (Va?radi, 2002).
It is aPOS-tagged corpus but does not contain any syntac-tic annotation; hence its use would require at leastsome partial parsing such as NP analysis to be em-ployable for our purposes.
The other future direc-tion concerns evaluation and linguistic analysis ofverb clusters.
We define well-founded verb classeson the basis of semantic role matrices.
These se-mantic roles can be filled in a sentence by case-marked NPs.
Therefore, evaluation of automaticallyobtained clusters presupposes the definition of suchmatrices, which is our major linguistic task in thefuture.
When we have the supposed matrices at ourdisposal, we can start evaluating the clusters via ex-ample sentences which illustrate case suffix alterna-tions or roles characteristic to specific classes.7 ConclusionsThe experiment of clustering the 150 most frequentHungarian verbs is the first step towards finding thesemantic verb classes underlying verbs?
syntacticdistribution.
As we did not have presuppositions95about the relevant classes, neither any gold standardfor automatic evaluation, the results have to serveas input for a detailed linguistic analysis to find outat what extent they are usable for the syntactic des-cription of Hungarian.
However, as demonstratedin Section 4, the verb clusters we got show surpris-ingly transparent semantic coherence.
These results,obtained from a corpus which is by several orders ofmagnitude smaller than what is usual for such pur-poses, is a reinforcement of the usability of the Se-mantic Base Hypothesis for language analysis.
Ourfurther work will emphasize both the refinement ofthe clustering methods and the linguistic interpre-tation of the resulting classes.ReferencesAnna Babarczy, Ba?lint Ga?bor, Ga?bor Hamp, Andra?sKa?rpa?ti, Andra?s Rung and Istva?n Szakada?t.
2005.Hunpars: mondattani elemzo?
alkalmaza?s [Hunpars: Arule-based sentence parser for Hungarian].
Proceed-ings of the 3th Hungarian Conference of Computa-tional Linguistics (MSZNY05), pages 20-28, Szeged,Hungary.Michael R. Brent.
1993.
From grammar to lexicon: un-supervised learning of lexical syntax.
ComputationalLinguistics, 19(2):243?262, MIT Press, Cambridge,MA, USA.Ted Briscoe and John Carroll.
1997.
Automatic Extrac-tion of Subcategorization from Corpora.
Proceedingsof the 5th Conference on Applied Natural LanguageProcessing (ANLP-97), pages 356?363, Washington,DC, USA.Do?ra Csendes, Ja?nos Csirik, Tibor Gyimo?thy and Andra?sKocsor.
2005.
The Szeged Treebank.
LNCS seriesVol.
3658, 123-131.Bonnie J. Dorr and Doug Jones.
1996.
Role of WordSense Disambiguation in Lexical Acquisition: Predict-ing Semantics from Syntactic Cues.
Proceedings ofthe 14th International Conference on ComputationalLinguistics (COLING-96), pages 322?327, Kopen-hagen, Denmark.Kata Ga?bor and Eniko?
He?ja.
2005.
Vonzatok e?s sza-bad hata?rozo?k szaba?lyalapu?
kezele?se [A Rule-basedAnalysis of Complements and Adjuncts].
Proceedingsof the 3th Hungarian Conference of ComputationalLinguistics (MSZNY05), pages 245-256, Szeged, Hun-gary.Eric Joanis and Suzanne Stevenson.
2003.
A generalfeature space for automatic verb classification.
Pro-ceedings of the 10th Conference of the EACL (EACL2003), pages 163?170, Budapest, Hungary.Jean-Pierre Koenig, Gail Mauner and Breton Bienvenue.2003.
Arguments for Adjuncts.
Cognition, 89, 67-103.Judit Kuti, Pe?ter Vajda and Ka?roly Varasdi.
2005.Javaslat a magyar igei WordNet kialak?
?ta?sa?ra [Pro-posal for Developing the Hungarian WordNet ofVerbs].
Proceedings of the 3th Hungarian Conferenceof Computational Linguistics (MSZNY05), pages 79?87, Szeged, Hungary.Beth Levin.
1993.
English Verb Classes And Alterna-tions: A Preliminary Investigation.
Chicago Univer-sity Press.Paola Merlo and Suzanne Stevenson.
2001.
AutomaticVerb Classification Based on Statistical Distributionsof Argument Structure.
Computational Linguistics,27(3), pages 373-408.Fernando C. N. Pereira, Naftali Tishby and Lillan Lee.1993.
Distributional Clustering of English Words.31st Annual Meeting of the ACL, pages 183-190,Columbus, Ohio, USA.Ba?lint Sass.
2006.
Igei vonzatkeretek az MNSZ tagmon-dataiban [Exploring Verb Frames in the Hungarian Na-tional Corpus].
Proceedings of the 4th HungarianConference of Computational Linguistics (MSZNY06),pages 15?22, Szeged, Hungary.Sabine Schulte im Walde.
2000.
Clustering Verbs Se-mantically According to their Alternation Behaviour.Proceedings of the 18th International Conference onComputational Linguistics (COLING-00), pages 747?753, Saarbru?cken, Germany.Sabine Schulte im Walde and Chris Brew.
2002.
Induc-ing German Semantic Verb Classes from Purely Syn-tactic Subcategorisation Information.
Proceedings ofthe 40th Annual Meeting of the Association for Com-putational Linguistics, pages 223-230, Philadelphia,PA.Sabine Schulte im Walde.
to appear.
The Induction ofVerb Frames and Verb Classes from Corpora.
CorpusLinguistics.
An International Handbook., Anke Lu?de-ling and Merja Kyto?
(eds).
Mouton de Gruyter, Berlin.Suzanne Stevenson and Eric Joanis.
2003.
Semi-supervised Verb Class Discovery Using Noisy Fea-tures.
Proceedings of the 7th Conference on Computa-tional Natural Language Learning (CoNLL-03), pages71-78, Edmonton, Canada.Tama?s Va?radi.
2002.
The Hungarian National Corpus.Proceedings of the Third International Conference onLanguage Resources and Evaluation, pages 385?389,Las Palmas, Spain.96
