Tutorial Abstracts of ACL-08: HLT, page 4,Columbus, Ohio, USA, June 2008. c?2008 Association for Computational LinguisticsAdvanced Online Learning for Natural Language ProcessingKoby CrammerDepartment of Computer and Information ScienceUniversity of PennsylvaniaPhiladelphia, PA 19104crammer@cis.upenn.eduIntroduction: Most research in machine learninghas been focused on binary classification, in whichthe learned classifier outputs one of two possibleanswers.
Important fundamental questions can beanalyzed in terms of binary classification, but real-world natural language processing problems ofteninvolve richer output spaces.
In this tutorial, we willfocus on classifiers with a large number of possi-ble outputs with interesting structure.
Notable ex-amples include information retrieval, part-of-speechtagging, NP chucking, parsing, entity extraction, andphoneme recognition.Our algorithmic framework will be that of on-line learning, for several reasons.
First, online algo-rithms are in general conceptually simple and easyto implement.
In particular, online algorithms pro-cess one example at a time and thus require littleworking memory.
Second, our example applicationshave all been treated successfully using online al-gorithms.
Third, the analysis of online algorithmsuses simpler mathematical tools than other types ofalgorithms.
Fourth, the online learning frameworkprovides a very general setting which can be appliedto a broad setting of problems, where the only ma-chinery assumed is the ability to perform exact in-ference, which computes a maxima over some scorefunction.Goals: (1) To provide the audience system-atic methods to design, analyze and implementefficiently learning algorithms for their specificcomplex-output problems: from simple binary clas-sification through multi-class categorization to in-formation extraction, parsing and speech recog-nition.
(2) To introduce new online algorithmswhich provide state-of-the-art performance in prac-tice backed by interesting theoretical guarantees.Content: The tutorial is divided into two parts.
Inthe first half we introduce online learning and de-scribe the Perceptron algorithm (Rosenblatt, 1958)and the passive-aggressive framework (Crammer etal., 2006).
We then discuss in detail an approach forderiving algorithms for complex natural languageprocessing (Crammer, 2004).
In the second half wediscuss is detail relevant applications including textclassification (Crammer and Singer, 2003), namedentity recognition (McDonald et al, 2005), pars-ing (McDonald, 2006), and other tasks.
We alsorelate the online algorithms to their batch counter-parts.ReferencesK.
Crammer and Y.
Singer.
2003.
A new family of onlinealgorithms for category ranking.
Jornal of MachineLearning Research, 3:1025?1058.K.
Crammer, O. Dekel, J. Keshet, S. Shalev-Shwartz,and Y.
Singer.
2006.
Online passive-aggressive al-gorithms.
JMLR, 7:551?585.K.
Crammer.
2004.
Online Learning of Complex Cate-gorial Problems.
Ph.D. thesis, Hebrew Universtiy.R.
McDonald, K. Crammer, and F. Pereira.
2005.
Flex-ible text segmentation with structured multilabel clas-sification.
In HLT/EMNLP.R.
McDonald.
2006.
Discriminative Training and Span-ning Tree Algorithms for Dependency Parsing.
Ph.D.thesis, University of Pennsylvania.F.
Rosenblatt.
1958.
The perceptron: A probabilisticmodel for information storage and organization in thebrain.
Psychological Review, 65:386?407.4
