Proceedings of ACL-08: HLT, Short Papers (Companion Volume), pages 33?36,Columbus, Ohio, USA, June 2008. c?2008 Association for Computational LinguisticsIcelandic Data Driven Part of Speech TaggingMark DredzeDepartment of Computer and Information ScienceUniversity of PennsylvaniaPhiladelphia, PA 19104mdredze@cis.upenn.eduJoel WallenbergDepartment of LinguisticsUniversity of PennsylvaniaPhiladelphia, PA 19104joelcw@babel.ling.upenn.eduAbstractData driven POS tagging has achieved goodperformance for English, but can still lag be-hind linguistic rule based taggers for mor-phologically complex languages, such as Ice-landic.
We extend a statistical tagger to han-dle fine grained tagsets and improve over thebest Icelandic POS tagger.
Additionally, wedevelop a case tagger for non-local case andgender decisions.
An error analysis of our sys-tem suggests future directions.1 IntroductionWhile part of speech (POS) tagging for English isvery accurate, languages with richer morphology de-mand complex tagsets that pose problems for datadriven taggers.
In this work we consider Icelandic,a language for which a linguistic rule-based methodis the current state of the art, indicating the difficultythis language poses to learning systems.
Like Ara-bic and Czech, other morphologically complex lan-guages with large tagsets, Icelandic can overwhelma statistical tagger with ambiguity and data sparsity.Shen et al (2007) presented a new framework forbidirectional sequence classification that achievedthe best POS score for English.
In this work, weevaluate their tagger on Icelandic and improve re-sults with extensions for fine grained annotations.Additionally, we show that good performance canbe achieved using a strictly data-driven learning ap-proach without external linguistic resources (mor-phological analyzer, lexicons, etc.).
Our systemachieves the best performance to date on Icelandic,with insights that may help improve other morpho-logically rich languages.After some related work, we describe Icelandicmorphology followed by a review of previous ap-proaches.
We then apply a bidirectional tagger andextend it for fine grained languages.
A tagger forcase further improves results.
We conclude with ananalysis of remaining errors and challenges.2 Related WorkPrevious approaches to tagging morphologicallycomplex languages with fine grained tagsets haveconsidered Czech and Arabic.
Khoja (2001) first in-troduced a tagger for Arabic, which has 131 tags,but subsequent work has collapsed the tagset to sim-plify tagging (Diab et al, 2004).
Like previous Ice-landic work (Loftsson, 2007), morphological ana-lyzers disambiguate words before statistical taggingin Arabic (Habash and Rambow, 2005) and Czech(Hajic?
and Hladk?, 1998).
This general approachhas led to the serial combination of rule based andstatistical taggers for efficiency and accuracy (Hajic?et al, 2001).
While our tagger could be combinedwith these linguistic resources as well, as in Loftsson(2007), we show state of the art performance withoutthese resources.
Another approach to fine-grainedtagging captures grammatical structures with tree-based tags, such as ?supertags?
in the tree-adjoininggrammar of Bangalore and Joshi (1999).3 Icelandic MorphologyIcelandic is notable for its morphological richness.Verbs potentially show as many as 54 differentforms depending on tense, mood, voice, person and33number.
A highly productive class of verbs alsoshow stem vowel alternations reminiscent of Semiticverb morphology (Arabic).
Noun morphology ex-hibits a robust case system; nouns may appear inas many as 16 different forms.
The four-case sys-tem of Icelandic is similar to that of the Slavic lan-guages (Czech), with case morphology also appear-ing on elements which agree in case with nouns.However, unlike Czech, case frequently does notconvey distinct meaning in Icelandic as it is of-ten determined by elements such as the governingverb in a clause (non-local information).
There-fore, while Icelandic case looks formally like Slavicand presents similar challenges for POS tagging, italso may be syntactically-determined, as in StandardArabic.
Icelandic word-order allows a very limitedform of scrambling, but does not produce the varietyof permutations allowed in Slavic languages.
Thiscombination of morphological complexity and syn-tactic constraint makes Icelandic a good case studyfor statistical POS tagging techniques.The morphology necessitates the large extendedtagset developed for the Icelandic Frequency Dictio-nary (?slensk or?t?
?nib?k/IFD), a corpus of roughly590,000 tokens (Pind et al, 1991).
We use the10 IFD data splits produced by Helgad?ttir (2004),where the first nine splits are used for evaluationand the tenth for model development.
Tags are com-prised of up to six elements, such as word class, gen-der, number, and case, yielding a total of 639 tags,not all of which occur in the training data.4 Previous ApproachesHelgad?ttir (2004) evaluated several data-drivenmodels for Icelandic, including MXPost, a maxi-mum entropy tagger, and TnT, a trigram HMM; bothdid considerably worse than on English.
Icelandicposes significant challenges: data sparseness, non-local tag dependencies, and 136,264 observed tri-gram sequences make discriminative sequence mod-els, such as CRFs, prohibitively expensive.
Giventhese challenges, the most successful tagger is Ic-eTagger (Loftsson, 2007), a linguistic rule basedsystem with several linguistic resources: a morpho-logical analyzer, a series of local rules and heuris-tics for handling PPs, verbs, and forcing agreement.Loftsson also improves TnT by integrating a mor-phological analyzer (TnT*).Despite these challenges, data driven taggers haveseveral advantages.
Learning systems can be eas-ily applied to new corpora, tagsets, or languages andcan accommodate integration of other systems (in-cluding rule based) or new linguistic resources, suchas those used by Loftsson.
Therefore, we seek alearning system that can handle these challenges.5 Bidirectional Sequence ClassificationBidirectional POS tagging (Shen et al, 2007), thecurrent state of the art for English, has some prop-erties that make it appropriate for Icelandic.
For ex-ample, it can be trained quickly with online learningand does not use tag trigrams, which reduces datasparsity and the cost of learning.
It can also allowlong range dependencies, which we consider below.Bidirectional classification uses a perceptron styleclassifier to assign potential POS tags (hypotheses)to each word using standard POS features and someadditional local context features.
On each round, thealgorithm selects the highest scoring hypothesis andassigns the guessed tag.
Unassigned words in thecontext are reevaluated with this new information.If an incorrect hypothesis is selected during train-ing, the algorithm promotes the score of the correcthypothesis and demotes the selected one.
See Shenet al for a detailed explanation.We begin with a direct application of the bidirec-tional tagger to Icelandic using a beam of one andthe same parameters and features as Shen et al Onthe development split the tagger achieved an accu-racy of 91.61%, which is competitive with the bestIcelandic systems.
However, test evaluation is notpossible due to the prohibitive cost of training thetagger on nine splits; training took almost 4 days onan AMD Opteron 2.8 GHz machine.Tagset size poses a problem since the tagger mustevaluate over 600 options to select the top tag fora word.
The tagger rescores the local context af-ter a tag is committed or all untagged words if theclassifier is updated.
This also highlights a problemwith the learning model itself.
The tagger uses a onevs.
all multi-class strategy, requiring a correct tag tohave higher score than every other tag to be selected.While this is plausible for a small number of labels,it overly constrains an Icelandic tagger.34Accuracy TrainTagger All Known Unkn.
TimeBidir 91.61 93.21 69.76 90:27Bidir+WC 91.98 93.58 70.10 12:20Bidir+WC+CT 92.36 93.93 70.95 14:02Table 1: Results on development data.
Accuracy is mea-sured by exact match with the gold tag.
About 7% oftokens are unknown at test time.As with most languages, it is relatively simple toassign word class (noun, verb, etc.)
and we use thisproperty to divide the tagset into separate learningproblems.
First, the tagger classifies a word accord-ing to one of the eleven word classes.
Next, it se-lects and evaluates all tags consistent with that class.When an incorrect selection is updated, the wordclass classifier is updated only if it was mistakenas well.
The result is a dramatic reduction in thenumber of tags considered at each step.
For somelanguages, it may make sense to consider further re-ductions, but not for Icelandic since case, gender,and number decisions are interdependent.
Addition-ally, by learning word class and tag separately, a cor-rect tag need only score higher than other tags ofthe same word class, not all 639.
Furthermore, col-lapsing tags into word class groups increases train-ing data, allowing the model to generalize featuresover all tags in a class instead of learning each tagseparately (a form of parameter tying).Training time dropped to 12 hours with the bidi-rectional word class (WC) tagger and learning per-formance increased to 91.98% (table 1).
Word classaccuracy, already quite high at 97.98%, increased to98.34%, indicating that the tagger can quickly fil-ter out most inappropriate tags.
The reduced train-ing cost allowed for test data evaluation, yielding91.68%, which is a 12.97% relative reduction in er-ror over the best pure data driven model (TnT) and a1.65% reduction over the best model (IceTagger).6 Case TaggerExamining tagger error reveals that most mis-takes are caused by case confusion on nouns(84.61% accuracy), adjectives (76.03%), and pro-nouns (90.67%); these account for 40% of the cor-pus.
While there are 16 case-number-definitenesscombinations in the noun morphology, a noun mightrealize several combinations with a single phonolog-ical/orthographic form (case-syncretism).
Mistakesin noun case lead to further mistakes for categorieswhich agree with nouns, e.g.
adjectives.
Assigningappropriate case for nouns is important for a num-ber of other tagging decisions, but often the noun?scase provides little or no information about the iden-tity of other tags.
It is in this situation that the tag-ger makes most case-assignment errors.
Therefore,while accuracy depends on correct case assignmentfor these nouns, other tags are mostly unaffected.One approach to correcting these errors is to intro-duce long range dependencies, such as those used byIceTagger.
While normally hard to add to a learn-ing system, bidirectional learning provides a natu-ral framework since non-local features can be addedonce a tag has been committed.
To allow dependen-cies on all other tag assignments, and because cor-recting the remaining case assignments is unlikely toimprove other tags, we constructed a separate bidi-rectional case tagger (CT) that retags case on nouns,adjectives and pronouns.
1 Since gender is importantas it relates to case, it is retagged as well.
The CTtakes a fully tagged sentence from the POS taggerand retags case and gender to nouns, adjectives andpronouns.
The CT uses the same features as the POStagger, but it now has access to all predicted tags.Additionally, we develop several non-local features.Many case decisions are entirely idiosyncratic,even from the point of view of human language-learners.
Some simple transitive verbs in Icelandicarbitrarily require their objects to appear in dativeor genitive case, rather than the usual accusative.This arbitrary case-assignment adds no additionalmeaning, and this set of idiosyncratic verbs is mem-orized by speakers.
A statistical tagger likewisemust memorize these verbs based on examples inthe training data.
To aid generalization, verb-formswere augmented by verb-stems features as describedin Dredze and Wallenberg (2008): e.g., the verbforms dveldi, dvaldi, dvelst, dvelurall mapped to the stem dv*l (dvelja ?dwell?).
Thetagger used non-local features, such as the preced-ing verb?s (predicted) tag, gender, case, stem, andnouns within the clause boundary as indicated by1We considered adding case tagging features to and remov-ing case decisions from the tagger; both hurt performance.35Tagger All Known UnknownMXPost 89.08 91.04 62.50TnT 90.44 91.82 71.68TnT* 91.18 92.53 72.75IceTagger 91.54 92.74 75.09Bidir+WC 91.68 93.32 69.25Bidir+WC+CT 92.06 93.70 69.74Table 2: Results on test data.the tags cn (complementizer) or ct (relativizer)(Dredze and Wallenberg, 2008).The CT was used to correct the output of the tag-ger after training on the corresponding train split.The CT improved results yielding a new best ac-curacy of 92.06%, a 16.95% and 12.53% reductionover the best data driven and rule systems.7 Remaining ChallengesWe have shown that a data driven approach canachieve state of the art performance on highly in-flected languages by extending bidirectional learn-ing to fine grained tagsets and designing a bidirec-tional non-local case tagger.
We conclude with anerror analysis to provide future direction.The tagger is particularly weak on unknownwords, a problem caused by case-syncretism andidiosyncratic case-assignment.
Data driven taggerscan only learn which verbs assign special objectcases by observation in the training data.
Someverbs and prepositions also assign case based on themeaning of the whole phrase.
These are both seriouschallenges for data-driven methods and could be ad-dressed with the integration of linguistic resources.However, there is more work to be done on datadriven methods.
Mistakes in case-assignment dueto case syncretism, especially in conjunction withidiosyncratic-case-assigning verbs, account for alarge proportion of remaining errors.
Verbs that takedative rather than accusative objects are a particu-lar problem, such as mistaking accusative for dativefeminine objects (10.6% of occurrences) or dativefor accusative feminine objects (11.9%).
A possi-ble learning solution lies in combining POS taggingwith syntactic parsing, allowing for the identifica-tion of clause boundaries, which may help disam-biguate noun cases by deducing their grammaticalfunction from that of other clausal constituents.Additionally, idiosyncratic case-assignment couldbe learned from unlabeled data by finding un-ambiguous dative objects to identify idiosyncraticverbs.
Furthermore, our tagger learns which prepo-sitions idiosyncratically assign a single odd case(e.g.
genitive) since prepositions are a smaller classand appear frequently in the corpus.
This indicatesthat further work on data driven methods may stillimprove the state of the art.8 AcknowledgmentsWe thank Hrafn Loftsson for sharing IceTagger andthe datasplits, Libin Shen for his tagger, and the ?rniMagn?sson Institute for Icelandic Studies for accessto the corpus.ReferencesSrinivas Bangalore and Arivand K. Joshi.
1999.
Su-pertagging: An approach to almost parsing.
Compu-tational Linguistics, 25(2).Mona Diab, Kadri Hacioglu, and Daniel Jurafsky.
2004.Automatic tagging of arabic text: From raw text tobase phrase chunks.
In NAACL/HLT.Mark Dredze and Joel Wallenberg.
2008.
Further resultsand analysis of icelandic part of speech tagging.
Tech-nical Report MS-CIS-08-13, CIS Dept, University ofPennsylvania.Nizar Habash and Owen Rambow.
2005.
Arabic tok-enization, part-of-speech tagging and morphologicaldisambiguation in one fell swoop.
In ACL.Jan Hajic?
and Barbora Hladk?.
1998.
Tagging inflectivelanguages: prediction of morphological categories fora rich, structured tagset.
In COLING.Jan Hajic?, Pavel Krbec, Pavel Kve?ton?, Karel Oliva, andVladim?r Petkevic?.
2001.
Serial combination of rulesand statistics: a case study in czech tagging.
In ACL.Sigrun Helgad?ttir.
2004.
Testing data-driven learningalgorithms for pos tagging of icelandic.Shereen Khoja.
2001.
Apt: Arabic part-of-speech tagger.In NAACL Student Workshop.Hrafn Loftsson.
2007.
Tagging icelandic text using alinguistic and a statistical tagger.
In NAACL/HLT.J Pind, F Magn?sson, and S Briem.
1991.
The icelandicfrequency dictionary.
Technical report, The Instituteof Lexicography, University of Iceland.Libin Shen, Giorgio Satta, and Aravind K. Joshi.
2007.Guided learning for bidirectional sequence classifica-tion.
In ACL.36
