Proceedings of ACL-08: HLT, Short Papers (Companion Volume), pages 13?16,Columbus, Ohio, USA, June 2008. c?2008 Association for Computational LinguisticsDimensions of Subjectivity in Natural LanguageWei ChenLanguage Technologies InstituteCarnegie Mellon UniversityPittsburgh, PA 15213, USAweichen@cs.cmu.eduAbstractCurrent research in automatic subjectivityanalysis deals with various kinds of subjec-tive statements involving human attitudes andemotions.
While all of them are related tosubjectivity, these statements usually touch onmultiple dimensions such as non-objectivity1,uncertainty, vagueness, non-objective measur-ability, imprecision, and ambiguity, which areinherently different.
This paper discusses thedifferences and relations of six dimensions ofsubjectivity.
Conceptual and linguistic char-acteristics of each dimension will be demon-strated under different contexts.1 IntroductionNatural language involves statements that do notcontain complete, exact, and unbiased information.Many of these are subjective, which share the com-mon property described in narrative theory (Ban-field, 1982) as ?
(subjective statements) must all bereferred to the speaking subject for interpretation?.Wiebe (1990) further adapted this definition of sub-jectivity to be ?the linguistic expression of privatestates (Quirk et al, 1985)?.
So far, linguistic cueshave played an important role in research of sub-jectivity recognition (e.g.
(Wilson et al, 2006)),sentiment analysis (e.g.
(Wilson et al, 2005; Pangand Lee, 2004)), and emotion studies (e.g.
(Pen-nebaker et al, 2001)).
While most linguistic cues1We use the term ?non-objectivity?
to refer to the propertyof creating a bias from a speaker?s point of view that is not sup-ported by sufficient objective evidence.
It is not identical to thesubjectivity that involves all the dimensions we discuss in thispaper.are grouped under the general rubric of subjectiv-ity, they are usually originated from different dimen-sions, including:?
non-objectivity?
uncertainty?
vagueness?
non-objective measurability?
imprecision?
ambiguityThese dimensions all mingle in various applicationsthat deal with subjective statements.
For example,opinion extraction processes statements involvingnon-objectivity and uncertainty.
Evaluation and sen-timent analysis deal with vague words, which of-ten covers the issue of non-objective measurabilityand imprecision.
Ambiguity sometimes involves im-plicit subjectivity that is hard to recognize from lin-guistic patterns, which leads to great challenge ofidentifying and understanding subjective statements.Since multiple dimensions are involved in subjec-tivity, discriminating them may be helpful in under-standing subjectivity and related concepts.
The fol-lowing sections discuss characteristics and relationsof the six dimensions of subjectivity.2 Dimensions of Subjective Statements2.1 Non-objectivityIn this paper, we define non-objectivity as the prop-erty of creating a bias according to personal beliefs,judgments and emotions.
This does not include thekind of subjectivity originated from particular prop-erties of linguistic units that lead to personal in-terpretations.
Non-objectivity exists in subjective13statements such as opinions, evaluations, and per-suasive statements.
Non-objectivity can be recog-nized from linguistic patterns including words ex-plicitly expressing thoughts, beliefs, speculations,and postulations such as ?think?, ?believe?, ?hope?and ?guess?.
Although linguistic cues are found tobe reliable, there are cases of non-objectivity thatcannot be identified merely from lexical, syntacticalor morphological cues.
For example, sentence (1)and sentence (2) are very similar in linguistic struc-tures, but only sentence (2) is non-objective.
(1) Living things cannot survive without water.
(2) He cannot survive without music.Apart from linguistic patterns and conceptualcharacteristics of non-objectivity, there are twomain issues in non-objectivity recognition.
First,non-objectivity cannot be clearly identified withoutknowledge about its source (Wiebe et al, 2005).For example, ?Bob says the red team is about towin?
is objective with respect to the position of thespeaker of the sentence, who objectively stated aspeech event.
But the fragment ?the red team isabout to win?
is an opinion of Bob.
Hence, whethera statement is an opinion depends on both the scopeof the statement and the source of that statement.Second, non-objectivity always lies in a context,which cannot be ignored (Wiebe, 1990).
For ex-ample, ?Pinocchio?s nose?
is likely to be objectivewhen used within the context of the famous fairytale.
But the same phrase can be used subjectively asa metaphor in other contexts, where it may indicatenon-objectivity.2.2 UncertaintyUncertainty can indicate either subjectivity or ob-jectivity.
Flagged by words such as ?probably?and ?maybe?, statements expressing uncertainty areusually considered subjective because ?being uncer-tain?
itself can be a subjective mental activity.
How-ever, uncertainty is not a subtype of subjectivity.Consider the following sentences:(3) Bob has probably already finished his home-work.
(4) A poll of recent public opinions shows that Bobis likely to win the nomination.Sentence (3) is a subjective statement, where thespeaker expresses his/her postulation of ?Bob fin-ished his homework?
through the uncertainty indi-cated by ?probably?.
On the contrary, sentence (4)is an objective statement, although uncertainty abouta future event exists.
This sentence reports a conclu-sion drawn from sufficient evident that Bob takes themajority vote based on the survey, which does notrely on a particular speaking subject for interpreta-tion.
In this case, uncertainty does not necessarilyimply subjectivity.On the other hand, people sometimes explicitlyindicate uncertainty to avoid being subjective.
(5) It is possible that the red team will win.
(6) It is likely that the red team will win.
(7) The red team will win.We could easily imagine a scenario where sentence(5) is more objective than sentence (6) and (7).
Forexample, the speaker may believe that the red teamwill lose, but in order to avoid personal bias, he/shemay instead say: ?It is possible that the red teamwill win (but the blue team has a better chance).
?In general, explicitly showing uncertainty can implypostulation, but it can also convey the intention ofbeing objective by not excluding other possibilities.Uncertainty sometimes exists in statements whereno linguistic cues are present.
For example, the lin-guistic pattern of sentence (7) is similar to that of?I will have an exam tomorrow?, but the later oneis usually used to describe an objective future eventwhile sentence (7) can be semantically identical tosentence (6)2, although the indicator of uncertaintyin sentence (7) is not shown explicitly.2.3 Vagueness, Non-objective Measurability,and ImprecisionVagueness refers to a property of the concepts thathave no precise definitions.
For example, gradablewords such as ?small?
and ?popular?
are sometimestreated as linguistic cues of vagueness, and they arefound to be good indicators of subjectivity (Hatzi-vassiloglou and Wiebe, 2000).Especially, gradable words are vague if there is nowell-defined frame of reference.
This in some cases2These two are identical as long as the game is not fixed.14leads to two issues: comparison class and bound-ary.
In the sentence ?Elephants are big?, the compar-ison class of ?elephants?
is unclear: we could com-pare the size of elephants with either land animalsor all the animals including both land and aquaticcreatures3.
Also, there is no clear boundary between?being small?
and ?not being small?.
Different indi-viduals usually have their own fuzzy boundaries forvague concepts.
As such, vague words are usuallytreated as important cues for subjectivity.
However,learning which words are vague is non-trivial, be-cause vagueness cannot be hard-coded into lexicons.For example, the gradable word ?cold?
is vague insentence (8) but not in sentence (9).
The differencebetween these two is the one in sentence (9) has aknown boundary which is the temperature for liquidwater to exist, and the one in sentence (8) simplyreflects personal perception.
(8) It is cold outside.
(9) It is too cold during the night on the moon forliquid water to exist.Vagueness is often a strong indicator of subjectiv-ity because it involves personal explanation of a con-cept.
But there are exceptions.
For example, the def-inition of ?traditional education?
can be vague, buttalking about ?traditional education?
may not neces-sarily imply subjectivity.When speaking of qualities, there are two ma-jor dimensions related to vagueness: non-objectivemeasurability and imprecision.
Attributes likeheight, length, weight, temperature, and time areobjectively measurable, whereas things like beautyand wisdom are usually not objectively measur-able.
Vagueness exists at different levels for non-objectively and objectively measurable qualities.For non-objectively measurable qualities, vaguenessexists at the conceptual level, where it intersects withnon-objectivity.
In the sentence ?He is not as charm-ing as his brother?, the word ?charming?
refers toa quality whose interpretation may vary among dif-ferent cultures and different individuals.
For ob-jectively measurable qualities, vagueness exists atthe boundary-setting level, where either subjectiv-ity or common sense comes into play.
Sentence3Other comparison classes are also possible.
(10) shows an example of the objectively measur-able quality ?long time?
indicating an opinion thatthe speaker is unsatisfied with someone?s work.
Onthe contrary, an objective meaning of ?long time?
insentence (11) can be resolved by common sense.
(10) You finally finished the work, but it took you along time.
(11) Intelligent life took a long time to develop onEarth.4Statements involving objectively measurablequantities often have an imprecision problem, wherevagueness is usually resolved from common agree-ments on small variations of values.
For example,?Bob is six feet tall?
usually implies that the heightis ?around?
six feet5, with a commonly acceptableprecision of about an inch.
Generally, specific preci-sions are determined by variations tied to measure-ment technologies for specific quantities: the preci-sion for the size of a cell may be around a micron,and the error tolerance for the distance between starscan be on the order of light years.
Imprecision canalso indicate subjectivity when used for subjectiveestimation.
For instance, ?Bob needs two days tofinish his homework?
is usually not telling an exactperiod of time, but a personal estimation.2.4 AmbiguityWhile vagueness exists at the conceptual level, am-biguity lies at the level of linguistic expressions.
Inother words, an ambiguous statement contains lin-guistic expressions that can refer to multiple expla-nations, whereas a vague statement carries a conceptwith unclear or soft definition.Previous studies have explored the relationshipbetween ambiguity and subjectivity.
They haveshown that subjectivity annotations can be helpfulfor word sense disambiguation when a word has dis-tinct subjective senses and objective senses (Wiebeand Mihalcea, 2006).Lexical and syntactical ambiguity usually can beresolved from contextual information and/or com-mon consensus.
But when ambiguity is used in-tentionality, identifying and understanding the am-biguity become creative and interactive procedures,4Sentence fragment adapted from Astrobiology Magazine(Dec 02, 2002).5It could also mean ?at least six feet tall?
in some cases.15which usually indicate subjectivity.
The sentence?I?d like to see more of you?
is an example of thiskind, which could be used to indicate multiple mean-ings under the same context 6.3 Mixtures of Multiple DimensionsIn many cases, subjective statements involve mul-tiple of the dimensions discussed in previous sec-tions.
For example, the subjectivity of the sentence?It?s a nice car?
comes from three dimensions: non-objectivity, vagueness and ambiguity.
First, ?a carbeing nice?
is usually a personal opinion which maynot be commonly acceptable.
Second, the gradableword ?nice?
indicates vagueness, since there is noclear boundary for ?being nice?.
Third, the sentenceis also ambiguous because ?nice?
could refer to ap-pearance, acceleration, angle rate, and many othermetrics that might affect personal evaluations.For information retrieval systems, processing nat-ural queries such as ?find me the popular movies of2007?
requires proper understanding of the vagueword ?popular?.
Besides, non-objectivity and am-biguity also take part in the query: on the non-objectivity side, the definition of ?popular?
may dif-fer according to different individuals; on the ambi-guity side, the word ?popular?
may refer to differentmetrics related to the popularity of a movie such asmovie ratings and box office performance.In applications requiring certain level oflanguage-understanding, things can get evenmore complicated while different dimensionsweave together.
As in sentence (5), the speakermay bias towards the blue team while he/sheshows uncertainty towards the red team.
Correctlyunderstanding this kind of subjective statementswould probably need some investigation in differentdimensions of subjectivity.4 ConclusionIn this paper, we demonstrated that subjectivity innatural language is a complex phenomenon that con-tains multiple dimensions including non-objectivity,uncertainty, vagueness, non-objective measurability,imprecision and ambiguity.
These dimensions pat-tern together in various kinds of subjective state-6Kent Bach, Ambiguity.
Routledge Encyclopedia of Philos-ophy, http://online.sfsu.edu/ kbach/ambguity.htmlments such as opinions, evaluations and naturalqueries.
Since these dimensions have differentbehaviors in subjective statements, discriminatingthem in both linguistic and psychological aspectswould be necessary in subjectivity analysis.AcknowledgmentsThe author would like to thank Scott Fahlman forthe original motivation of the idea and helpful dis-cussions.ReferencesAnn Banfield.
1982.
Unspeakable Sentences: Narrationand Representation in the Language of Fiction.
Rout-ledge and Kegan Paul, Boston.Vasileios Hatzivassiloglou and Janyce Wiebe.
2000.
Ef-fects of adjective orientation and gradability on sen-tence subjectivity.
In Proceedings of the 18th confer-ence on Computational linguistics, pages 299?305.Bo Pang and Lillian Lee.
2004.
A sentimental education:Sentiment analysis using subjectivity summarizationbased on minimum cuts.
In Proceedings of the ACL,pages 271?278.James Pennebaker, Martha Francis, and Roger Booth.2001.
Linguistic Inquiry and Word Count: LIWC.Lawrence Erlbaum Associates, Mahwah.Randolph Quirk, Sidney Greenbaum, Geoffrey Leech,and Jan Svartvik.
1985.
A Comprehensive Grammarof the English Language.
Longman, New York.JanyceWiebe and RadaMihalcea.
2006.
Word sense andsubjectivity.
In Proceedings of the ACL, pages 1065?1072.Janyce Wiebe, Theresa Wilson, and Claire Cardie.
2005.Annotating expressions of opinions and emotions inlanguage.
In Language Resources and Evaluation,volume 39, pages 165?210.Janyce Wiebe.
1990.
Recognizing Subjective Sen-tences: A Computational Investigation of NarrativeText.
Ph.D. thesis, SUNY Buffalo Dept.
of ComputerScience.Theresa Wilson, Janyce Wiebe, and Paul Hoffmann.2005.
Recognizing contextual polarity in phrase-level sentiment analysis.
In HLT ?05: Proceedings ofthe conference on Human Language Technology andEmpirical Methods in Natural Language Processing,pages 347?354.Theresa Wilson, Janyce Wiebe, and Rebecca Hwa.
2006.Recognizing strong and weak opinion clauses.
Com-putational Intelligence, 22(2):73?99.16
