Proceedings of the ACL-08: HLT Demo Session (Companion Volume), pages 20?23,Columbus, June 2008. c?2008 Association for Computational LinguisticsYawat: Yet Another Word Alignment ToolUlrich GermannUniversity of Torontogermann@cs.toronto.eduAbstractYawat1 is a tool for the visualization and ma-nipulation of word- and phrase-level alignmentsof parallel text.
Unlike most other tools formanual word alignment, it relies on dynamicmarkup to visualize alignment relations, thatis, markup is shown and hidden depending onthe current mouse position.
This reduces thevisual complexity of the visualization and al-lows the annotator to focus on one item at atime.
For a bird?s-eye view of alignment pat-terns within a sentence, the tool is also able todisplay alignments as alignment matrices.
Inaddition, it allows for manual labeling of align-ment relations with customizable tag sets.
Dif-ferent text colors are used to indicate whichwords in a given sentence pair have alreadybeen aligned, and which ones still need to bealigned.
Tag sets and color schemes can easilybe adapted to the needs of specific annotationprojects through configuration files.
The toolis implemented in JavaScript and designed torun as a web application.1 IntroductionSub-sentential alignments of parallel text play animportant role in statistical machine translation(SMT).
Aligning parallel data on the word- orphrase-level is typically one of the first steps in build-ing SMT systems, as those alignments constitute thebasis for the construction of probabilistic translationdictionaries.
Consequently, considerable effort hasgone into devising and improving automatic wordalignment algorithms, and into evaluating their per-formance (e.g., Och and Ney, 2003; Taskar et al,2005; Moore et al, 2006; Fraser and Marcu, 2006,among many others).
For the sake of simplicity, wewill in the following use the term ?word alignment?1Yawat was first presented at the 2007 Linguistic Annota-tion Workshop (Germann, 2007).to refer to any form of alignment that identifies wordsor groups of words as translations of each other.Any explicit evaluation of word alignment qual-ity requires human intervention at some point, beit in the direct evaluation of candidate word align-ments produced by a word alignment system, or inthe creation of a gold standard against which can-didate word alignments can be compared automati-cally.
This human intervention works best with aninteractive, visual interface.2 Word alignment visualizationOver the years, numerous tools for the visualizationand creation of word alignments have been devel-oped (e.g., Melamed, 1998; Smith and Jahr, 2000;Ahrenberg et al, 2002; Rassier and Pedersen, 2003;Daume?
; Tiedemann; Hwa and Madnani, 2004; Lam-bert, 2004; Tiedemann, 2006).
Most of them employone of two visualization techniques.
The first is todraw lines between associated words, as shown inFig.
1.
The second is to use an alignment matrix(Fig.
2), where the rows of the matrix correspond tothe words of the sentence in one language and thecolumns to the words of that sentence?s translationinto the other language.
Marks in the matrix?s cellsindicate whether the words represented by the rowand column of the cell are linked or not.
A thirdtechnique, employed in addition to drawing lines byMelamed (1998) and as the sole mechanism by Tiede-mann (2006), is to use colors to indicate which wordscorrespond to each other on the two sides of the par-allel corpus.The three techniques just mentioned work reason-ably well for very short sentences, but reach theirlimits quickly as sentence length increases.
Align-ment visualization by coloring schemes requires asmany different colors as there are words in the(shorter) sentence.
Alignment visualization by draw-ing lines and alignment matrices both require thateach of the two sentences in each sentence pair is20I have not any doubt that would be the position of the Supreme Court of Canada .Je ne doute pas que telle serait la position de la Cour supre?me du Canada .I Jehave nenot douteany pasdoubt quethat tellewould seraitbe la.
.
.
.
.
.Figure 1: Visualization of word alignments by drawing lines.Je ne doutepastelleseraitla positionde la Coursupre?medu Canada.I ?have ?not ?
?anydoubt ?that ?would ?be ?the ?position ?of ?the ?Supreme ?Court ?of ?Canada ?.
?Figure 2: Visualization of word alignments with an align-ment matrix.presented in a single line or column.
Pairs of longsentences therefore often cannot be shown entirely onthe screen.
Aligning pairs of long sentences then re-quires scrolling back and forth, especially when thereare considerable differences in word order betweenthe two languages.
Moreover, as sentence length in-creases, visualization by drawing lines quickly be-comes cluttered, and alignment matrices becomehard to track.
We believe that it is not only becauseof the intrinsic difficulties of explaining translationsby word alignment but also because of such interfaceissues that aligning words manually has the reputa-tion of being a very tedious task.3 YawatYawat (Yet Another Word Alignment Tool) was de-veloped to remedy this situation by providing an ef-ficient interface for creating and editing word align-ments manually.
It is implemented as web applica-tion with a thin CGI script on the server side anda browser-based2 client written in JavaScript.
Thissetup facilitates collaborative efforts with multipleannotators working remotely without the overheadof needing to organize the transfer of alignment dataseparately.
The server-side data structure was de-liberately kept small and simple, so that the tool orsome of its components can be used as a visualizationfront-end for existing word alignments.Yawat?s most prominent distinguishing feature is2Unfortunately, differences in the underlying DOM imple-mentations make it laborious to implement truly browser-independent web applications in JavaScript.
Yawat was de-veloped for FireFox and currently won?t work in Internet Ex-plorer.Figure 3: Alignment visualization with Yawat.
As the mouse is moved over a word, the word and all words linkedwith it are highlighted.
The highlighting is removed when the mouse leaves the word in question.
This allows theannotator to focus on one item at a time, without any distracting visual clutter from other word alignments.21Figure 4: Yawat allows alignment relations to be labeled via context menues.
Parallel text can be displayed side-by-side as in this screenshot or stacked as in Fig.
3.the use of dynamic instead of static visualization.Rather than showing alignment links permanentlyby drawing lines or showing marks in an alignmentmatrix, associated words are shown only for one wordat a time, as determined by the location of the mousepointer.
When the mouse is moved over a word in thetext, the word and all the words associated with itare highlighted; when the mouse is moved away, thehighlighting is removed.
Figure 3 gives a snapshot ofthe tool in action.Designed primarily as a tool for creating wordalignments, one design objective was to minimizemouse travel required to align words.
The inter-face therefore has no ?link words?
button but usesmouse clicks on words directly to establish alignmentlinks.
A left-click on a word puts the tool into editmode and opens an ?alignment group?
(i.e., a set ofwords that supposedly constitute the expression ofa concept in the two languages).
Additional left-clicks on other words add them to or remove themfrom the current alignment group.
A final right-clickcloses the group and puts the tool back into viewmode.
The typical case of aligning just two indi-vidual words thus takes only a single click on eachof the two words: a left-click on the first word and aright-click on the second.
As words are aligned, theircolor changes to indicate that they have been dealtwith, so that the annotator can easily keep track ofwhich words have been aligned, and which ones stillneed to be aligned.
Notice the difference in color(or shading in a gray-scale printout) in the sentencesin Fig.
3, whose first halves have been aligned whiletheir latter halves are still unaligned.In view mode, alignment groups can be labeledwith a customizable set of tags via a context menuFigure 5: Yawat can also show alignments as alignmentmatrices.
The tooltip-like floating bar above the mousepointer provides column labels.triggered by a right-click on a word (Fig.
4).
For ex-ample, one might want to classify translational corre-spondences as ?literal?, ?non-literal / free?, or ?coref-erential without intensional equivalence?.
Differentcolors are used to indicate different types of align-ment; color schemes and tag sets can be configuredon the server side.3.1 Alignment matrix displayOne of the drawbacks of the dynamic visualizationscheme employed in Yawat is that it provides nobird?s-eye view of the overall alignment structure, as22it is provided by alignment matrices.
We thereforedecided to add alignment matrices as an additionalvisualization option.
Alignment matrices are createdon demand and can be switched on and off for eachsentence pair.
Word alignments can be edited in thealignment matrix view by clicking into the respectivematrix cells to link or unlink words.
Alignments ma-trices and the normal side-by-side or top-and-bottomdisplay of the sentence pair in question are inter-linked, so that an changes in the alignment matrixare immediately visible in the ?normal?
display andvice versa (see Fig.
5).4 ConclusionWe presented Yawat, a tool for the creation andvisualization of word- and phrase alignments.
Anon-line demo is currently available at http://www.cs.toronto.edu/?germann/yawat/yawat.cgi.
Apackage including the server-side scripts and theclient-side code is available upon request.ReferencesAhrenberg, Lars, Mikael Andersson, and MagnusMerkel.
2002.
?A system for incremental and in-teractive word linking.?
Third International Con-ference on Linguistic Resources and Evaluation(LREC-2002), 485?490.
Las Palmas, Spain.Daume?, Hal.
?HandAlign.?
http://www.cs.utah.edu/?hal/HandAlign/.Fraser, Alexander and Daniel Marcu.
2006.
?Semi-supervised training for statistical word align-ment.?
Joint 44th Annual Meeting of the Associa-tion for Computational Linguistics and 21th Inter-national Conference on Computational Lignuistics(COLING-ACL ?98), 769?776.
Sydney, Australia.Germann, Ulrich.
2007.
?Two tools for creatingand visualizing sub-sentential alignments of paral-lel text.?
Linguistic Annotation Workshop (LAW?07), 121?124.
Prague, Czech Republic.Hwa, Rebecca and Nitin Madnani.
2004.?The umiacs word alignment interface.
?http://www.umiacs.umd.edu/?nmadnani/alignment/forclip.htm.Lambert, Patrik.
2004.
?Alignment set toolkit.
?http://gps-tsc.upc.es/veu/personal/lambert/software/AlignmentSet.html.Melamed, I. Dan.
1998.
Manual Annotation ofTranslational Equivalence: The Blinker Project.Technical Report 98-07, Institute for Research inCognitive Science (IRCS), Philadelphia, PA.Moore, Robert C., Wen-tau Yih, and Andreas Bode.2006.
?Improved discriminative bilingual wordalignment.?
Joint 44th Annual Meeting of theAssociation for Computational Linguistics and21th International Conference on ComputationalLignuistics (COLING-ACL ?98), 513?520.
Sydney,Australia.Och, Franz Josef and Hermann Ney.
2003.
?A sys-tematic comparison of various statistical align-ment models.?
Computational Linguistics,29(1):19?51.Rassier, Brian and Ted Pedersen.
2003.
?Alpaco:Aligner for parallel corpora.?
http://www.d.umn.edu/?tpederse/parallel.html.Smith, Noah A. and Michael E. Jahr.
2000.
?Cairo:An alignment visualization tool.?
Second Inter-national Conference on Linguistic Resources andEvaluation (LREC-2000).Taskar, Ben, Simon Lacoste-Julien, and DanKlein.
2005.
?A discriminative matching ap-proach to word alignment.?
Human LanguageTechnology Conference and Conference on Em-pirical Methods in Natural Language Process-ing (HLT/EMNLP ?05), 73?80.
Morristown, NJ,USA.Tiedemann, Jo?rg.
?UPlug: Tools for linguistic cor-pus processing, word alignment and term extrac-tion from parallel corpora.?
http://stp.ling.uu.se/cgi-bin/joerg/Uplug.Tiedemann, Jo?rg.
2006.
?ISA & ICA ?
Two web in-terfaces for interactive alignment of bitexts.?
FifthInternational Conference on Linguistic Resourcesand Evaluation (LREC-2006).
Genoa, Italy.23
