Tutorial Abstracts of ACL-08: HLT, page 5,Columbus, Ohio, USA, June 2008. c?2008 Association for Computational LinguisticsSpeech Technology:from Research to the Industry of Human-Machine CommunicationRoberto PieracciniSpeechCycle26 Broadway, 11th FloorNew York, NY 10004roberto@speechcycle.com1 IntroductionThis tutorial is about the evolution of speech technologyfrom research to a mature industry.
Today, spoken lan-guage communication with computers is becoming partof everyday life.
Thousands of interactive applicationsusing spoken language technology?
known also as?conversational machines?
?are only phone calls away,allowing millions of users each day to access informa-tion, perform transactions, and get help.
Speech recog-nition, language understanding, text-to-speechsynthesis, machine learning, and dialog managementenabled this revolution after more than 50 years of re-search.
The industry of speech continues to mature withits evolving standards, platforms, architectures, andbusiness models within different sectors of the market.2 Content OverviewIn this tutorial I will briefly trace the history of speechtechnology, with a special focus on speech recognitionand spoken language understanding, from the early at-tempts to today?s commercial deployments.
I will sum-marily describe the most successful ideas andalgorithms that brought to today?s technology.
I willdiscuss the struggle for ever increasing performance, theimportance of data for training and evaluation, and therole played by government funded projects in creatingeffective evaluation benchmarks.
I will then describe thebirth of the speech industry in the mid 1990s, with therole played by the Voice User Interface and dialog en-gineering disciplines in bringing speech recognitionfrom a laboratory ?accuracy challenge?
to an enabler ofusable interfaces.
I will describe the rising of standards(such as VoiceXML, SRGS, SSML, etc.)
and their im-portance in the growth of the market.
I will proceedwith an overview of the current architectures and proc-esses utilized for creating commercial spoken dialogsystems, and will provide several case studies of the useof speech technology.
I will conclude with a discussionon the current open problems and challenges.The tutorial duration will be of about 3 hours with ashort break.
Several audio and video samples will beshown during the tutorial.
The tutorial is directed to ageneral HLT audience with no prior knowledge ofspeech technology.3 Tutorial Outline- What is speech and why it is difficult to recog-nize it.- The history of speech recognition from theearly attempts to Hidden Markov Models- The struggle for performance and the impor-tance of data- Spoken language understanding and dialog- The birth of the ?spoken dialog?
industry- Industrial standards and architectures- Case studies- Open issues and future researchReferencesPieraccini, R. Huerta, J., Where do we go from here?Research and Commercial Spoken Dialog Systems,Proc.
of 6th SIGdial Workshop on Discourse and Dia-log, Lisbon, Portugal, 2-3 September, 2005. pp.
1-10Pieraccini R., Lubensky, D., Spoken Language Commu-nication with Machines: the Long and Winding Roadfrom research to Business, in M. Ali and F. Esposito(Eds) : IEA/AIE 2005, LNAI 3533, pp 6-15, 2005,Springer-Verlag..5
