Proceedings of ACL-08: HLT, Short Papers (Companion Volume), pages 249?252,Columbus, Ohio, USA, June 2008. c?2008 Association for Computational LinguisticsChoosing Sense Distinctions for WSD: Psycholinguistic EvidenceSusan Windisch BrownDepartment of LinguisticsInstitute of Cognitive ScienceUniversity of ColoradoHellems 295 UCBBoulder, CO 80309susan.brown@colorado.eduAbstractSupervised word sense disambiguation re-quires training corpora that have been taggedwith word senses, which begs the question ofwhich word senses to tag with.
The defaultchoice has been WordNet, with its broad cov-erage and easy accessibility.
However, con-cerns have been raised about theappropriateness of its fine-grained wordsenses for WSD.
WSD systems have been farmore successful in distinguishing coarse-grained senses than fine-grained ones (Navig-li, 2006), but does that approach neglect ne-cessary meaning differences?
Recentpsycholinguistic evidence seems to indicatethat closely related word senses may berepresented in the mental lexicon much like asingle sense, whereas distantly related sensesmay be represented more like discrete entities.These results suggest that, for the purposes ofWSD, closely related word senses can be clus-tered together into a more general sense withlittle meaning loss.
The current paper will de-scribe this psycholinguistic research and itsimplications for automatic word sense disam-biguation.1 Introduction*The problem of creating a successful word sensedisambiguation system begins, or should begin,well before methods or algorithms are considered.The first question should be, ?Which senses do wewant to be able to distinguish??
Dictionaries en-* I gratefully acknowledge the support of the National ScienceFoundation Grant NSF-0415923, Word Sense Disambigua-tion.courage us to consider words as having a discreteset of senses, yet any comparison between dictio-naries quickly reveals how differently a word?smeaning can be divided into separate  senses.Rather than having a finite list of senses, manywords seem to have senses that shade from oneinto another.One could assume that dictionaries make broad-ly similar divisions and the exact point of divisionis only a minor detail.
Simply picking one resourceand sticking with it should solve the problem.
Infact, WordNet, with its broad coverage and easyaccessibility, has become the resource of choice forWSD.
However, some have questioned whetherWordNet?s fine-grained sense distinctions are ap-propriate for the task (Ide & Wilks, 2007; Palmeret al, 2007).
Some are concerned about feasibility:Is WSD at this level an unattainable goal?
Otherswith practicality: Is this level of detail reallyneeded for most NLP tasks, such as machine trans-lation or question-answering?
Finally, some won-der whether such fine-grained distinctions evenreflect how human beings represent word meaning.Human annotators have trouble distinguishingsuch fine-grained senses reliably.
Interannotatoragreement with WordNet senses is around 70%(Snyder & Palmer, 2004; Chklovski & Mihalcea,2002), and it?s understandable that WSD systemswould have difficulty surpassing this upper bound.Researchers have responded to these concernsby developing various ways to cluster WordNetsenses.
Mihalcea & Moldovan (2001) created anunsupervised approach that uses rules to clustersenses.
Navigli (2006) has induced clusters bymapping WordNet senses to a more coarse-grainedlexical resource.
OntoNotes (Hovy et al, 2006) ismanually grouping WordNet senses and creating acorpus tagged with these sense groups.
Using On-249toNotes and another set of manually tagged data,Snow et al (2007) have developed a supervisedmethod of clustering WordNet senses.Although ITA rates and system performanceboth significantly improve with coarse-grainedsenses (Duffield et al, 2007; Navigli, 2006), thequestion about what level of granularity is neededremains.
Palmer et al (2007) state, ?If too muchinformation is being lost by failing to make themore fine-grained distinctions, the [sense] groupswill avail us little.
?Ides and Wilks (2007) drew on psycholinguisticresearch to help establish an appropriate level ofsense granularity.
However, there is no consensusin the psycholinguistics field on how lexical mean-ing is represented in the mind (Klein & Murphy,2001; Pylkk?nen et al, 2006; Rodd et al, 2002),and, as the Ide and Wilks (2007) state, ?research inthis area has been focused on developing psycho-logical models of language processing and has notdirectly addressed the problem of identifyingsenses that are distinct enough to warrant, in psy-chological terms, a separate representation in themental lexicon.
?Our experiment looked directly at sense distinc-tions of varying degrees of meaning relatednessand found indications that the mental lexicon doesnot consist of separate representations of discretesenses for each word.
Rather, word senses mayshare a greater or smaller portion of a semanticrepresentation depending on the how closely re-lated the senses are.
Because closely related sensesmay share a large portion of their semantic repre-sentation, clustering such senses together wouldresult in very little meaning loss.
The remainder ofthis paper will describe the experiment and its im-plications for WSD in more detail.2 ExperimentThe goal of this experiment was to determinewhether each sense of a word has a completelyseparate mental representation or not.
If so, we alsohoped to discover what types of sense distinctionsseem to have separate mental representations.2.1 MaterialsFour groups of materials were prepared using thefine-grained sense distinctions found in WordNet2.1.
Each group consisted of 11 pairs of phrases.The groups comprised (1) homonymy, (2) distantlyrelated senses, (3) closely related senses, and (4)same senses (see Table 1 for examples).
Placementin these groups depended both on the classificationof the usages by WordNet and the Oxford EnglishDictionary and on the ratings given to pairs ofphrases by a group of undergraduates.
They ratedthe relatedness of the verb in each pair on a scaleof 0 to 3, with 0 being completely unrelated and 3being the same sense.A pair was considered to represent the samesense if the usage of the verb in both phrases wascategorized by WordNet as the same and if the pairreceived a rating greater than 2.7.
Closely relatedsenses were listed as separate senses by WordNetand received a rating between 1.8 and 2.5.
Distant-ly related senses were listed as separate senses byWordNet and received ratings between 0.7 and 1.3.Because WordNet makes no distinction betweenrelated and unrelated senses, the Oxford EnglishDictionary was used to classify homonyms.
Ho-monyms were listed as such by the OED and re-ceived ratings under 0.3.Prime TargetUnrelated banked the plane banked the moneyDistantly related ran the track ran the shopClosely related broke the glass broke the radioSame sense cleaned the shirt cleaned the cupTable 1.
Stimuli.2.2 MethodThe experiment used a semantic decision task(Klein & Murphy, 2001; Pylkk?nen et al, 2006), inwhich people were asked to judge whether shortphrases ?made sense?
or not.
Subjects saw aphrase, such as ?posted the guard,?
and would de-cide whether the phrase made sense as quickly andas accurately as possible.
They would then seeanother phrase with the same verb, such as ?postedthe letter,?
and respond to that phrase as well.
Theresponse time and accuracy were recorded for thesecond phrase of each pair.2.3 Results and DiscussionWhen comparing response times between samesense pairs and different sense pairs (a combina-250tion of closely related, distantly related, and unre-lated senses), we found a reliable difference (samesense mean: 1056ms, different sense mean:1272ms; t32 =6.33; p<.0001).
We also found betteraccuracy for same sense pairs (same sense: 95.6%correct vs. different sense: 78% correct; t32=7.49;p<.0001).
When moving from one phrase to anotherwith the same meaning, subjects were faster andmore accurate than when moving to a phrase witha different sense of the verb.By itself, this result would fit with the theory thatevery sense of a word has a separate semantic re-presentation.
One would expect people to accessthe meaning of a verb quickly if they had just seenthe verb used with that same meaning.
One couldthink of the meaning as already having been ?acti-vated?
by the first phrase.
Accessing a completelydifferent semantic representation when movingfrom one sense to another should be slower.If all senses have separate representations, accessto meaning should proceed in the same way for all.For example, if one is primed with the phrase?fixed the radio,?
response time and accuracyshould be the same whether the target is ?fixed thevase?
or ?fixed the date.?
Instead, we found a sig-nificant difference between these two groups, withclosely related pairs accessed, on average, 173msmore quickly than the mean of the distantly andunrelated pairs (t32=5.85; p<.0005), and accuracy washigher (91% vs. 72%; t32=8.65; p<.0001).A distinction between distantly related pairs andhomonyms was found as well.
Response times fordistantly related pairs was faster than for homo-nyms (distantly related mean: 1253ms, homonymmean: 1406ms; t32=2.38; p<.0001).
Accuracy was en-hanced as well for this group (distantly relatedmean: 81%, unrelated mean: 62%; t32=5.66; p<.0001).Related meanings, even distantly related, seem tobe easier to access than unrelated meanings.500700900110013001500Same Close Distant UnrelatedFigure 1.
Mean response time (ms).405060708090100Same Close Distant UnrelatedFigure 2.
Mean accuracy (% correct).A final planned comparison tested for a linearprogression through the test conditions.
Althoughsomewhat redundant with the other comparisons,this test did reveal a highly significant linear pro-gression for response time (F1,32=95.8; p<.0001)and for accuracy (F1,32=100.1; p<.0001).People have an increasingly difficult time ac-cessing the meaning of a word as the relatedness ofthe meaning in the first phrase grows more distant.They respond more slowly and their accuracy de-clines.
However, closely related senses are almostas easy to access as same sense phrases.
These re-sults suggest that closely related word senses maybe represented in the mental lexicon much like asingle sense, perhaps sharing a core semantic re-presentation.The linear progression through meaning related-ness is also compatible with a theory in which thesemantic representations of related senses overlap.Rather than being discrete entities attached to amain ?entry?, they could share a general semanticspace.
Various portions of the space could be acti-vated depending on the context in which the wordoccurs.
This structure allows for more coarse-grained or more fine-grained distinctions to bemade, depending on the needs of the moment.A structure in which the semantic representationsoverlap allows for the apparently smooth progres-sion from same sense usages to more and moredistantly related usages.
It also provides a simpleexplanation for semantically underdeterminedusages of a word.
Although separate senses of aword can be identified in different contexts, insome contexts, both senses (or a vague meaningindeterminate between the two) seem to berepresented by the same word.
For example,?newspaper?
can refer to a physical object: ?Hetore the newspaper in half?, or to the content of apublication: ?The newspaper made me mad today,suggesting that our committee is corrupt.?
The sen-251tence ?I really like this newspaper?
makes nocommitment to either sense..3 ConclusionsWhat does this mean for WSD?
Most wouldagree that NLP applications would benefit from theability to distinguish homonym-level meaning dif-ferences.
Similarly, most would agree that it is notnecessary to make very fine distinctions, even ifwe can describe them.
For example, the process ofcleaning a cup is discernibly different from theprocess of cleaning a shirt, yet we would not wantto have a WSD system try to distinguish betweenevery minor variation on cleaning.
The problemcomes with deciding when meanings can be consi-dered the same sense, and when they should beconsidered different.The results of this study suggest that some wordusages considered different by WordNet provokesimilar responses as those to same sense usages.
Ifthese usages activate the same or largely overlap-ping meaning representations, it seems safe to as-sume that little meaning loss would result fromclustering these closely related senses into onemore general sense.
Conversely, people reacted todistantly related senses much as they did to homo-nyms, suggesting that making distinctions betweenthese usages would be useful in a WSD system.A closer analysis of the study materials revealsdifferences between the types of distinctions madein the closely related senses and the types made inthe distantly related senses.
Most of the closelyrelated senses distinguished between different con-crete usages, whereas the distantly related sensesdistinguished between a concrete usage and a fi-gurative or metaphorical usage.
This suggests thatgrouping concrete usages together may result inlittle, if any, meaning loss.
It may be more impor-tant to keep concrete senses distinct from figura-tive or metaphorical senses.
The present study,however, divided senses only on degree of related-ness rather than type of relatedness.
It would beuseful in future studies to address more directly thequestion of distinctions based on concreteness,animacy, agency, and so on.ReferencesChklovski, Tim, and Rada Mihalcea.
2002.
Building asense tagged corpus with open mind word expert.Proc.
of ACL 2002 Workshop on WSD: Recent Suc-cesses and Future Directions.
Philadelphia, PA.Duffield, Cecily Jill, Jena D. Hwang, Susan WindischBrown, Dmitriy Dligach, Sarah E.Vieweg, JennyDavis, Martha Palmer.
2007.
Criteria for the manualgrouping of verb senses.
Linguistics AnnotationWorkshop, ACL-2007.
Prague, Czech Republic.Hovy, Eduard, Mitchell Marcus, Martha Palmer, LanceRamshaw, and Ralph Weischedel.
2006.
OntoNotes:The 90% solution.
Proc.
of HLT-NAACL 2006.
NewYork, NY.Ide, Nancy, and Yorick Wilks.
2007.
Making senseabout sense.
In Word Sense Disambiguation: Algo-rithms and Applications, E. Agirre and P.
Edmonds(eds.).
Dordrecht, The Netherlands: Springer.Klein, D., and Murphy, G. (2001).
The representation ofpolysemous words.
J of Memory and Language 45,259-282.Mihalcea, Rada, and Dan I. Moldovan.
2001.
Automaticgeneration of a coarse-grained WordNet.
In Proc.
ofNAACL Workshop on WordNet and Other Lexical Re-sources.
Pittsburg, PA.Navigli, Roberto.
2006.
Meaningful clustering of wordsenses helps boost word sense disambiguation per-formance.
Proc.
of the 21st International Conferenceon Computational Linguistics.
Sydney, Australia.Palmer, Martha, Hwee Tou Ng, and Hoa Trang Dang.2007.
Evaluation of WSD systems.
In Word SenseDisambiguation: Algorithms and Applications, E.Agirre and P. Edmonds (eds.).
Dordrecht, The Neth-erlands: Springer.Pylkk?nen, L., Llin?s, R., and Murphy, G. L. (2006).The representation of polysemy: MEG evidence.
J ofCognitive Neuroscience 18, 97-109.Rodd, J., Gaskell, G., and Marslen-Wilson, W. (2002).Making sense of semantic ambiguity: Semantic com-petition in lexical access.
J. of Memory and Lan-guage, 46, 245-266.Snow, Rion, Sushant Prakash, Dan Jurafsky and And-rew Y. Ng.
2007.
Learning to merge word senses.Proc.
of EMNLP 2007.
Prague, Czech Republic.Snyder, Benjamin, and Martha Palmer.
2004.
The Eng-lish all-words task.
Proc.
of ACL 2004 SENSEVAL-3Workshop.
Barcelona, Spain.252
