Proceedings of the ACL-08: HLT Student Research Workshop (Companion Volume), pages 7?12,Columbus, June 2008. c?2008 Association for Computational LinguisticsAn Integrated Architecture for Generating Parenthetical ConstructionsEva BanikDepartment of ComputingThe Open UniversityWalton Hall, Milton Keynes,e.banik@open.ac.ukAbstractThe aim of this research is to provide a prin-cipled account of the generation of embed-ded constructions (called parentheticals) andto implement the results in a natural languagegeneration system.
Parenthetical construc-tions are frequently used in texts written in agood writing style and have an important rolein text understanding.
We propose a frame-work to model the rhetorical properties of par-entheticals based on a corpus study and de-velop a unified natural language generation ar-chitecture which integrates syntax, semantics,rhetorical and document structure into a com-plex representation, which can be easily ex-tended to handle parentheticals.1 IntroductionParentheticals are constructions that typically occurembedded in the middle of a clause.
They are notpart of the main predicate-argument structure of thesentence and are marked by special punctuation (e.g.parentheses, dashes, commas) in written texts, or byspecial intonation in speech.Syntactically, parentheticals can be realized bymany different constructions, e.g.
: appositive rel-ative clauses (1a), non-restrictive relative clauses(1b), participial clauses (1c) or subordinate clauses(1d).
(1) a The new goal of the Voting Rights Act [?more minorities in political office ?]
islaudable.
(wsj1137)b GE, [which vehemently denies thegovernment?s allegations,] denounced Mr.Greenfield?s suit.
(wsj0617)c But most businesses in the Bay area,[including Silicon Valley,] weren?t greatlyaffected.
(wsj1930)d So far, [instead of teaming up,] GECapital staffers and Kidder investmentbankers have bickered.
(wsj0604)A common characteristics of parentheticals is thatthey express information that is not central to themeaning of the overall message conveyed by a textor spoken utterance and since they are specificallymarked by punctuation or intonation, they allow thereader to distinguish between more and less impor-tant parts of the message.
By structuring informationthis way, parentheticals make it easier for readers todecode the message conveyed by a text.
Considerfor example the following message that has been ex-pressed by two different texts: one without paren-theticals (2a) and one that contains two parentheti-cals (2b).
(2) a Eprex is used by dialysis patients who areanaemic.
Prepulsid is a gastro-intestinaldrug.
Eprex and Prepulsid did welloverseas.b Eprex, [used by dialysis patients who areanaemic,] and Prepulsid, [agastro-intestinal drug,] did well overseas.
(wsj1156)Parentheticals have been much studied in lin-guistics ( see (Dehe and Kavalova, 2007), (Burton-Roberts, 2005) for a recent overview) but so far they7have received less attention in computational lin-guistics.
Only a few studies have attempted a com-putational analysis of parentheticals, the most recentones being (Bonami and Godard, 2007) who give anunderspecified semantics account of evaluative ad-verbs in French and (Siddharthan, 2002) who devel-ops a statistical tool for summarisation that separatesparentheticals from the sentence they are embeddedin.
Both of these studies are limited in their scope asthey focus on a very specific type of parentheticals.From the perspective of natural language gener-ation (NLG), as far as we know, nobody has at-tempted to give a principled account of parentheti-cals, even though these constructions contribute tothe easy readability of generated texts, and thereforecould significantly enhance the performance of NLGsystems (Scott and Souza, 1990).Most existing natural language generation sys-tems use rhetorical structure to construct a text planand map arguments of rhetorical relations onto in-dividual sentences or clauses.
As a result, the ar-guments of the same rhetorical relation will alwaysoccur immediately next to each other, although thesurface realization of individual arguments may varyand a clause may appear syntactically embeddedwithin the preceding clause.
This linear successionof rhetorical relations and their arguments makesthe generated text appear monotonous and staccato.As commonly mentioned by style manuals,1 usingdifferent kinds of clause-combining strategies (e.g.semicolons, dash-interpolations, appositives) showsa clearer writing style.The goal of this research is to give a principledaccount of parenthetical constructions and incorpo-rate its findings into a natural language generationsystem.2 System ArchitectureWe propose an integrated generation architecture forthis purpose which uses a Tree Adjoining Grammar(Joshi, 1987) to represent linguistic information atall levels, including syntax, rhetorical structure anddocument structure.Our approach is to make the elementary trees inthe grammar as complex as possible, so that con-straints on which trees can be combined with each1See for example, Rule 14 of (Strunk and White, 1979)other will be localized in the trees themselves.
Byincorporating information about rhetorical structureand document structure into the trees, we are ex-tending the domain of locality of elementary treesas much as possible and this allows the generatorto keep the global operations for combining trees assimple as possible.
This approach has been referredto as the ?Complicate Locally, Simplify Globally?principle (Joshi, 2004).The input to the generator is a set of rhetoricalrelations and semantic formulas.
For each formulathe system selects a set of trees from the grammar,resulting in a number of possible tree sets associatedwith the input.The next step is to filter out sets of trees that willnot lead to a possible realization.
In the current im-plementation this is achieved by a version of polarityfiltering where we associate not only the syntacticcategories of root, substitution and foot nodes with apositive or negative value (Gardent and Kow, 2006)but also add the semantic variable associated withthese nodes.
The values summed up by polarity fil-tering are [node, semantic variable] pairs, which rep-resent restrictions on possible syntactic realizationsof semantic (or rhetorical) arguments.Parentheticals often pose a problem for polarityfiltering because in many cases there is a shared el-ement between the parenthetical and its host, whichnormally occurs twice in non-parenthetical realiza-tions of the same input, but only once when thereis a parenthetical.
(e.g., in (2a) the NP ?Eprex?
oc-curs twice, but only once in (2b)).
In order to allowfor this variation, when summing up the values forsubstitution and root nodes we consider multiple oc-currences of NP substitution nodes associated withthe same semantic variable as if they were a singleinstance.
This results in one or more NP substitu-tion nodes left empty at the end of the derivation,which are then filled with a pronoun by a referringexpression module at the final stage of the genera-tion process.3 Corpus StudyThe generator is informed by a corpus study of em-bedded discourse units on two discourse annotatedcorpora: the RST Discourse Treebank (Carlson etal., 2001) and the Penn Discourse Treebank (PDTB-8Elab-addExampleElab-gen-specRestatementElab-set-memAttributionConditionAntithesisConcessionCircumstancePurposeNP-modifiersrelative clause 143 2 2 147participial clause 96 4 1 1 11 4 117NP 34 8 22 64NP-coord 6 6cue + NP 5 1 2 3 2 13Adj + cue 2 2number 2 2including + NP 13 5 18VP-orS-modifiersto-infinitive 4 30 34NP + V 106 106cue + S 5 20 14 9 29 77PP 11 9 1 21S 7 1 1 9according to NP 7 7V + NP 6 6as + S 4 4Adv + number 1 1 2cue + Adj 2 2cue + participial 2 2cue + V 1 1310 19 11 22 14 125 20 18 12 54 35 640Table 1: Syntactic types of parentheticals in the RST corpusRelation Connective in parenthetical Connective in host distribution in corpusTEMPORAL 101 (48.8%) 2 3434 (18.6%)CONTINGENCY 53 (25.6%) 0 3286 (17.8%)COMPARISON 38 (18.3%) 5 5490 (29.7%)EXPANSION 15 (7.2%) 5 6239 (33.8%)TOTAL: 207 12 18484Table 2: Relations between parentheticals and their hosts in the PDTBGroup, 2008).2 The aim of the study was to es-tablish what rhetorical relations can hold betweenparentheticals and their hosts and whether individ-ual rhetorical relations tend to correlate with specificsyntactic types.Table 1 illustrates the findings of the study on theRST corpus, showing the correlation between syn-tactic types of parentheticals and rhetorical relationsbetween parentheticals and their hosts in the corpus.The majority of parentheticals in this study weresyntactically related to their hosts and they can bedivided into two main groups.
The most frequentlyoccurring type is ELABORATION/EXPANSION-type2The details of this study are reported in (Banik and Lee,2008)NP-modifiers which are realized by relative clauses,NPs or nominal postmodifiers with non-finiteclauses and express some type of ELABORATION,EXAMPLE or RESTATEMENT relation.
73.4% of par-entheticals belong to this group in the RST corpus.The other type of parentheticals are NON-ELA-BORATION/EXPANSION-type VP- or S-modifiers,which are realized by subordinate clauses, to-infinitives and PPs and express CIRCUMSTANCE,PURPOSE, CONDITION, ANTITHESIS,or CONCES-SION relations.
26.6% of parentheticals in the cor-pus belong to this group.Because of the decision taken in the PDTB to onlyannotate clausal arguments of discourse connec-tives, parentheticals found in this corpus are almost9all subordinate clauses, which is clearly an artifactof the annotation guidelines.
This corpus only anno-tates parentheticals that contain a discourse connec-tive and we have found that in almost all cases theconnective occurs within the parenthetical.
We havefound only 12 discourse adverbs that occurred in thehost sentence.The present corpus study is missing several typesof parentheticals because of the nature of the annota-tion guidelines of the corpora used.
For example, inthe RST corpus some phrasal elements that contain adiscourse connective (3a) and adjectives or reducedrelative clauses that contain an adjective without averbal element are not annotated (3b):(3) a But the technology, [while reliable,] is farslower than the widely used hard drives.
(wsj1971)b Each $5000 bond carries one warrant,[exercisable from Nov. 28, 1989, throughOct.
26, 1994] to buy shares at anexpected premium of 2 1/2 % to theclosing share price when terms are fixedOct.
26.
(wsj1161)These constructions are clear examples of par-entheticals and we would expect them to behavesimilarly to subordinating conjunctions and relativeclauses respectively.
As a test case we decided toallow adjectives to function as parentheticals in thegrammar of the generator and if the results are eval-uated as satisfactory, plan to extend this analysis toother constructions not covered by our corpus study.4 Generating Parentheticals ?
AnExampleWe associate auxiliary trees with parenthetical oc-currences of the most frequently embedded rhetori-cal relations based on the above corpus study.The basic assumption behind assigning syntactictrees to parenthetical rhetorical relations is that thesemantic type of the arguments of the relation shouldbe mirrored by their syntax.
Thus if one of the ar-guments of a rhetorical relation is an object then itmust be represented by an NP in the syntax; if itis a proposition then it must be assigned an S- orVP-auxiliary tree.
The satellite of the rhetorical re-lation is always substituted into the auxiliary tree,i.p: CONCESSION(n, s)TSHHHS?arg:nTC HHthough S?arg:sii.p: CONCESSION(n, s)TS HHS?arg:nTC HHbut S?arg:siii.p: CONCESSION(n,s)VP HHTE HHthough S HHS?arg: sPunct,VP?arg: niv.p: CONCESSION(n,s)TS HHTC HHthough S HHS?arg:sPunct,S?arg:nFigure 1: Elementary trees for CONCESSIONand the nucleus is associated with the footnode (thislater gets unified with the semantic label of the treethat the auxiliary tree adjoins to).Figure 1 illustrates four elementary trees for theCONCESSION relation.
The trees in boxes i. andii.
correspond to regular uses of CONCESSION whilethe trees in iii.
and iv.
correspond to its parenthet-ical occurrences.
Using these trees along with theelementary trees in Figure 3, and given the input be-low, the system generates the following five possiblerealizations:Input: [[l3, concession, l1, l2], [l1,legal,x], [l2, fatal,x], [x,substance]]Output:1. the substance, though it is fatal, is legal2.
the substance is legal though it is fatal3.
though it is fatal, the substance is legal4.
though the substance is fatal, it is legal5.
the substance is legal but it is fatalFigure 2 gives the elementary trees assigned to10i.p: ELABORATION(n,s)SHHHS?arg: nand S?arg: nii.p: ELABORATION(n,s)SS?arg: nFigure 2: Elementary trees for ELABORATIONthe most frequently occurring parenthetical rhetori-cal relation, ELABORATION-ADDITIONAL.
The treein box i. is associated with non-parenthetical usesof the relation, and box ii.
shows the tree used forparenthetical ELABORATION.
Since in parentheticaluses of ELABORATION the two arguments of the re-lation combine with each other and not with a thirdtree, as in the case of parenthetical CONCESSION,the role of the lexically empty parenthetical tree inbox ii.
is to restrict the type of tree selected for thenucleus of ELABORATION.
Since the satellite hasto end up as the parenthetical, the nucleus has to berestricted to the main clause, which is achieved byassociating its semantic variable with an S substitu-tion node in the tree.To give an example, Figure 3. illustrates elemen-tary trees for the input below:Input: [[l3, elaboration, l1, l2], [l1,illegal,x], [l2,fatal, x], [x,substance]]Output:1. the fatal substance is illegal2.
the substance, which is fatal, is illegal3.
the substance is illegal and it is fatalThe parenthetical ELABORATION tree is used forconstructing outputs 1. and 2., which restricts thenucleus to select the initial tree in box iii.
on Figure3.
As a result, the satellite of the relation has to se-lect on of the auxiliary trees in box i. or ii.
in orderto be able to combine with the nucleus.
The casewhere both satellite and nucleus are assigned initialtrees is handled by the non-parenthetical tree in boxi.
on Figure 2.i.s: fatal/legal(x)NPHHHNP?arg:xTEHHHWHwhichS HHNP?VP HHVisAPfatal/legaliv.xNPthe substanceii.p: fatal/legal(x)NP HHAfatallegalNP?arg: xiii.p: fatal/legal(x)S HHNP?arg:xVP HHVisAfatal(il)legalFigure 3: Elementary TAG trees for semantic formulas5 Directions for further researchA possible way to control the generator is to enrichthe input representation by adding restrictions on thetypes of trees that are allowed to be selected, simi-larly to (Gardent and Kow, 2007) (e.g., if a rhetori-cal relation is restricted to selecting initial trees forits satellite then it won?t be generated as a parenthet-ical).
Another way to select a single output is to es-tablish ranking constraints (these could depend, e.g.,on the genre of the text to be generated) and choosethe top ranked candidate for output.At the moment the elementary trees in the gram-mar contain document structure nodes (Power et al,2003) which are not used by the generator.
Weplan to extend the analysis of parentheticals to big-11ger structures like footnotes or a paragraph separatedin a box from the rest of the text and the documentstructure nodes in the elementary trees will be usedto generate these.Given the small size of the grammar, currently po-larity filtering is enough to filter out just the gram-matical realizations from the set of possible treesets.As the grammar size increases we expect that wewill need additional constraints to reduce the num-ber of possible tree sets selected for a given input.Also, once the generator will be capable of han-dling longer inputs, we will need to avoid generat-ing too many parentheticals.
Both the number ofpossible tree sets and the number of parentheticalsin the outputs could be reduced by allowing the gen-erator to select parenthetical realizations for only apredefined percentage of each rhetorical relation inthe input.
This number can be first obtained from ourcorpus study, and fine-tuned based on evaluations ofthe generated output.The current implementation uses a very simplis-tic referring expression module which inserts a pro-noun in every NP position left open at the end ofthe derivation, unless it is in a sentence initial po-sition.
Parentheticals often involve the use of refer-ring expressions and can sound more natural whenthe embedded constituent involves a reference to anelement in the main clause, therefore a more sophis-ticated algorithm for referring expression generationwill be used in the future.Although our corpus study gives important infor-mation about which rhetorical relation to realize as aparenthetical, how often, and using which syntacticconstruction, there seem to be additional restrictionson the use of certain parentheticals.
Consider forexample the two realizations (4 a and b) of the CON-CESSION relation below where the parenthetical in(4b) sounds very unnatural:concession:n: a few people may experience side-effectss: most people benefit from taking Elixir(4) a Though most people benefit from takingElixir, a few people may experienceside-effects.b ??
A few people, though most peoplebenefit from taking Elixir, mayexperience side-effects.ReferencesE.
Banik and A. Lee.
2008.
A study of parentheticals indiscourse corpora ?
implications for NLG systems.
InProceedings of LREC 2008, Marrakesh.O.
Bonami and D. Godard.
2007.
Parentheticals inunderspecified semantics: The case of evaluative ad-verbs.
Research on Language and Computation,5(4):391?413.N.
Burton-Roberts.
2005.
Parentheticals.
In E. K.Brown, editor, Encyclopaedia of Language and Lin-guistics.
Elsevier Science, 2nd edition edition.L.
Carlson, D. Marcu, and M. E. Okurowski.
2001.Building a discourse-tagged corpus in the frameworkof rhetorical structure theory.
In Proceedings of theSecond SIGdial Workshop on Discourse and Dialogue,pages 1?10, Morristown, NJ, USA.
Association forComputational Linguistics.N.
Dehe and Y. Kavalova, editors, 2007.
Parentheticals,chapter Parentheticals: An introduction, pages 1?22.Linguistik aktuell Linguistics today 106.
AmsterdamPhiladelphia: John Benjamins.C.
Gardent and E. Kow.
2006.
Three reasons to adopttag-based surface realisation.
In The Eighth Interna-tional Workshop on Tree Adjoining Grammar and Re-lated Formalisms (TAG+8), Sydney/Australia.C.
Gardent and E. Kow.
2007.
A symbolic approachto near-deterministic surface realisation using tree ad-joining grammar.
In In 45th Annual Meeting of theACL.A.
K. Joshi.
1987.
The relevance of tree adjoining gram-mar to generation.
In G. Kempen, editor, Natural Lan-guage Generation, pages 233?252.
Martinus NijhoffPress, Dordrect, The Netherlands.A.
K. Joshi.
2004.
Starting with complex primitives paysoff: complicate locally, simplify globally.
CognitiveScience: A Multidisciplinary Journal, 28(5):637?668.PDTB-Group.
2008.
The Penn Discourse Treebank 2.0Annotation Manual.
Technical Report IRCS-08-01,Institute for Research in Cognitive Science, Universityof Pennsylvania.R.
Power, D. Scott, and N. Bouayad-Agha.
2003.Document structure.
Computational Linguistics,29(4):211?260.D.
Scott and C. S. Souza.
1990.
Getting the messageacross in RST-based text generation.
In C. MellishR.
Dale M. Zock, editor, Current Research in NaturalLanguage Generation, pages 31?56.
Academic Press.A.
Siddharthan.
2002.
Resolving attachment and clauseboundary ambiguities for simplifying relative clauseconstructs.
In Student Research Workshop, ACL.W.
Jr. Strunk and E. B.
White.
1979.
The Elements ofStyle.
Macmillan, third edition.12
