Proceedings of ACL-08: HLT, pages 523?531,Columbus, Ohio, USA, June 2008. c?2008 Association for Computational LinguisticsMultilingual Harvesting of Cross-Cultural StereotypesTony VealeSchool of Computer ScienceUniversity College DublinBelfield, Dublin 4, Irelandtony.veale@ucd.ieYanfen HaoSchool of Computer ScienceUniversity College DublinBelfield, Dublin 4, Irelandyanfen.hao@ucd.ieGuofu LiSchool of Computer ScienceUniversity College DublinBelfield, Dublin 4, Irelandli.guofu.l@gmail.comAbstractPeople rarely articulate explicitly what a na-tive speaker of a language is already assumedto know.
So to acquire the stereotypicalknowledge that underpins much of what issaid in a given culture, one must look to whatis implied by language rather than what isovertly stated.
Similes are a convenient ve-hicle for this kind of knowledge, insofar asthey mark out the most salient aspects of themost frequently evoked concepts.
In this pa-per we perform a multilingual exploration ofthe space of common-place similes, by min-ing a large body of Chinese similes from theweb and comparing these to the English sim-iles harvested by Veale and Hao (2007).
Wedemonstrate that while the simile-frame is in-herently leaky in both languages, a multilin-gual analysis allows us to filter much of thenoise that otherwise hinders the knowledgeextraction process.
In doing so, we can alsoidentify a core set of stereotypical descrip-tions that exist in both languages and accu-rately map these descriptions onto a multilin-gual lexical ontology like HowNet.
Finally,we demonstrate that conceptual descriptionsthat are derived from common-place similesare extremely compact and predictive of onto-logical structure.1 IntroductionDirect perception of our environment is just oneof the ways we can acquire knowledge of theworld.
Another, more distinctly human approach,is through the comprehension of linguistic descrip-tions of another person?s perceptions and beliefs.Since computers have limited means of human-likeperception, the latter approach is also very muchsuited to the automatic acquisition of world knowl-edge by a computer (see Hearst, 1992; Charniak andBerland, 1999; Etzioni et al, 2004; Vo?lker et al,2005; Almuhareb and Poesio, 2005; Cimiano andWenderoth, 2007; Veale and Hao, 2007).
Thus, byusing the web as a distributed text corpus (see Kelleret al, 2002), a multitude of facts and beliefs canbe extracted, for purposes ranging from question-answering to ontology population.The possible configurations of different conceptscan also be learned from how the words denotingthese concepts are distributed; thus, a computer canlearn that coffee is a beverage that can be served hotor cold, white or black, strong or weak and sweetor bitter (see Almuhareb and Poesio, 2005).
But itis difficult to discern from these facts the idealizedor stereotypical states of the world, e.g., that one ex-pects coffee to be hot and beer to be cold, so that ifone spills coffee, we naturally infer the possibilitiesof scalding and staining without having to be toldthat the coffee was hot or black; the assumptionsof hotness and blackness are just two stereotypicalfacts about coffee that we readily take for granted.Lenat and Guha (1990) describe these assumed factsas residing in the white space of a text, in the bodyof common-sense assumptions that are rarely articu-lated as explicit statements.
These culturally-sharedcommon-sense beliefs cannot be harvested directlyfrom a single web resource or document set, butmust be gleaned indirectly, from telling phrases thatare scattered across the many texts of the web.Veale and Hao (2007) argue that the most pivotal523reference points of this world-view can be detectedin common-place similes like ?as lazy as a dog?, ?asfat as a hippo?
or ?as chaste as a nun?.
To the extentthat this world-view is ingrained in and influencedby how we speak, it can differ from culture to cul-ture and language to language.
In English texts, forexample, the concept Tortoise is stereotypically as-sociated with the properties slowness, patience andwrinkled, but in Chinese texts, we find that the sameanimal is a model of slowness, ugliness, and nutri-tional value.
Likewise, because Chinese ?wine?
hasa high alcohol content, the dimension of Strength ismuch more salient to a Chinese speaker than an En-glish speaker, as reflected in how the word?
is usedin statements such as?????
?, which means?as strong as wine?, or literally, ?as wine equallystrong?.In this paper, we compare the same web-basedapproach to acquiring stereotypical concept descrip-tions from text using two very different languages,English and Chinese, to determine the extent towhich the same cross-cultural knowledge is un-earthed for each.
In other words, we treat the web asa large parallel corpus (e.g., see Resnick and Smith,2003), though not of parallel documents in dif-ferent languages, but of corresponding translation-equivalent phrases.
By seeking translation equiva-lence between different pieces of textually-derivedknowledge, this paper addresses the following ques-tions: if a particular syntagmatic pattern is useful formining knowledge in English, can its translated formbe equally useful for Chinese?
To what extent doesthe knowledge acquired using different source lan-guages overlap, and to what extent is this knowledgelanguage- (and culture-) specific?
Given that thesyntagmatic patterns used in each language are notwholly unambiguous or immune to noise, to whatextent should finding the same beliefs expressed intwo different languages increase our confidence inthe acquired knowledge?
Finally, what representa-tional synergies arise from finding these same factsexpressed in two different languages?Given these goals, the rest of the paper as-sumes the following structure: in section 2, wesummarize related work on syntagmatic approachesto knowledge-acquisition; in section 3, we de-scribe our multilingual efforts in English and Chi-nese to acquire stereotypical or generic-level factsfrom the web, by using corresponding translationsof the commonplace stereotype-establishing pattern?as ADJ as a NOUN?
; and in section 4, we describehow these English and Chinese data-sets can be uni-fied using the bilingual ontology HowNet (Dong andDong, 2006).
This mapping allows us to determinethe meaning overlap in both data sets, the amountof noise in each data set, and the degree to whichthis noise is reduced when parallel translations canbe identified.
In section 5 we demonstrate theoverall usefulness of stereotype-based knowledge-representation by replicating the clustering experi-ments of Almuhareb and Poesio (2004, 2005) andshowing that stereotype-based representations areboth compact and predictive of ontological classi-fication.
We conclude the paper with some final re-marks in section 6.2 Related WorkText-based approaches to knowledge acquisitionrange from the ambitiously comprehensive, in whichan entire text or resource is fully parsed and ana-lyzed in depth, to the surgically precise, in whichhighly-specific text patterns are used to eke out cor-respondingly specific relationships from a large cor-pus.
Endeavors such as that of Harabagiu et al(1999), in which each of the textual glosses in Word-Net (Fellbaum, 1998) is linguistically analyzed toyield a sense-tagged logical form, is an example ofthe former approach.
In contrast, foundational ef-forts such as that of Hearst (1992) typify the lattersurgical approach, in which one fishes in a large textfor word sequences that strongly suggest a particu-lar semantic relationship, such as hypernymy or, inthe case of Charniak and Berland (1999), the part-whole relation.
Such efforts offer high precision butlow recall, and extract just a tiny (but very useful)subset of the semantic content of a text.
The Know-ItAll system of Etzioni et al (2004) employs thesame generic patterns as Hearst ( e.g., ?NPs suchas NP1, NP2, ...?
), and more besides, to extract awhole range of facts that can be exploited for web-based question-answering.
Cimiano and Wenderoth(2007) also use a range of Hearst-like patterns tofind text sequences in web-text that are indicativeof the lexico-semantic properties of words; in par-ticular, these authors use phrases like ?to * a new524NOUN?
and ?the purpose of NOUN is to *?
toidentify the agentive and telic roles of given nouns,thereby fleshing out the noun?s qualia structure asposited by Pustejovsky?s (1990) theory of the gener-ative lexicon.The basic Hearst approach has even proven use-ful for identifying the meta-properties of conceptsin a formal ontology.
Vo?lker et al (2005) showthat patterns like ?is no longer a|an NOUN?
canidentify, with reasonable accuracy, those conceptsin an ontology that are not rigid, which is to say,concepts like Teacher and Student whose instancesmay at any point stop being instances of these con-cepts.
Almuhareb and Poesio (2005) use patternslike ?a|an|the * C is|was?
and ?the * of the C is|was?to find the actual properties of concepts as they areused in web texts; the former pattern is used to iden-tify value features like hot, red, large, etc., whilethe latter is used to identify the attribute featuresthat correspond to these values, such as tempera-ture, color and size.
Almuhareb and Poesio go onto demonstrate that the values and attributes that arefound for word-concepts on the web yield a suffi-ciently rich representation for these word-conceptsto be automatically clustered into a form resemblingthat assigned by WordNet (see Fellbaum, 1998).Veale and Hao (2007) show that the pattern ?as ADJas a|an NOUN?
can also be used to identify thevalue feature associated with a given concept, andargue that because this pattern corresponds to thatof the simile frame in English, the adjectival fea-tures that are retrieved are much more likely to behighly salient of the noun-concept (the simile ve-hicle) that is used.
Whereas Almuhareb and Poe-sio succeed in identifying the range of potential at-tributes and values that may be possessed by a par-ticular concept, Veale and Hao succeed in identi-fying the generic properties of a concept as it isconceived in its stereotypical form.
As noted bythe latter authors, this results in a much smaller yetmore diagnostic feature set for each concept.
How-ever, because the simile frame is often exploited forironic purposes in web texts (e.g., ?as meaty as askeleton?
), and because irony is so hard to detect,Veale and Hao suggest that the adjective:noun pair-ings found on the web should be hand-filtered to re-move such examples.
Given this onerous require-ment for hand-filtering, and the unique, culturally-loaded nature of the noise involved, we use the workof Veale and Hao as the basis for the cross-culturalinvestigation in this paper.3 Harvesting Knowledge from Similes:English and ChineseBecause similes are containers of culturally-received knowledge, we can reasonably expect themost commonly used similes to vary significantlyfrom language to language, especially when thoselanguages correspond to very different cultures.These similes form part of the linguistic currency ofa culture which must be learned by a speaker, andindeed, some remain opaque even to the most edu-cated native speakers.
In ?A Christmas Carol?, forinstance, Dickens (1943/1984) questions the mean-ing of ?as dead as a doornail?, and notes: ?I mighthave been inclined, myself, to regard a coffin-nail asthe deadest piece of ironmongery in the trade.
Butthe wisdom of our ancestors is in the simile?.Notwithstanding the opacity of some instances ofthe simile form, similes are very revealing about theconcepts one most encounters in everyday language.In section 5 we demonstrate that concept descrip-tions which are harvested from similes are both ex-tremely compact and highly predictive of ontolog-ical structure.
For now, we turn to the process bywhich similes can be harvested from the text of theweb.
In section 3.1 we summarize the efforts ofVeale and Hao, whose database of English similesdrives part of our current investigation.
In section3.2 we describe how a comparable database of Chi-nese similes can be harvested from the web.3.1 Harvesting English SimilesVeale and Hao (2007) use the Google API in con-junction with Princeton WordNet (Fellbaum, 1998)as the basis of their harvesting system.
They firstextracted a list of antonymous adjectives, such as?hot?
or ?cold?, from WordNet, the intuition beingthat explicit similes will tend to exploit propertiesthat occupy an exemplary point on a scale.
For ev-ery adjective ADJ on this list, they then sent thequery ?as ADJ as *?
to Google and scanned thefirst 200 snippets returned for different noun val-ues for the wildcard *.
The complete set of nounsextracted in this way was then used to drive a sec-525ond harvesting phase, in which the query ?as * asa NOUN?
was used to collect similes that employdifferent adjectives or which lie beyond the 200-snippet horizon of the original search.
Based onthis wide-ranging series of core samples (of 200 hitseach) from across the web, Veale and Hao reportthat both phases together yielded 74,704 simile in-stances (of 42,618 unique types, or unique adjec-tive:noun pairings), relating 3769 different adjec-tives to 9286 different nouns.
As often noted byother authors, such as Vo?lker et al (2005), a pattern-oriented approach to knowledge mining is prone tonoise, not least because the patterns used are rarelyleak-free (inasmuch as they admit word sequencesthat do not exhibit the desired relationship), and be-cause these patterns look at small text sequences inisolation from their narrative contexts.
Veale andHao (2007) report that when the above 42,618 similetypes are hand-annotated by a native speaker, only12,259 were judged as non-ironic and meaningfulin a null context.
In other words, just 29% of theretrieved pairings conform to what one would con-sider a well-formed and reusable simile that conveyssome generic aspect of cultural knowledge.
Of thosedeemed invalid, 2798 unique pairings were taggedas ironic, insofar as they stated precisely the oppo-site of what is stereotypically believed to be true.3.2 Harvesting Chinese SimilesTo harvest a comparable body of Chinese similesfrom the web, we also use the Google API, in con-junction with both WordNet and HowNet (Dong andDong, 2006).
HowNet is a bilingual lexical ontol-ogy that associates English and Chinese word labelswith an underlying set of approximately 100,000lexical concepts.
While each lexical concept is de-fined using a unique numeric identifier, almost all ofHowNet?s concepts can be uniquely identified by apairing of English and Chinese labels.
For instance,the word ????
can mean both Tortoise and Cuck-old in Chinese, but the combined label tortoise|?
?uniquely picks out the first sense while cuckold|??
uniquely picks out the second.
Though Chi-nese has a large number of figurative expressions,the yoking of English to Chinese labels still servesto identify the correct sense in almost every case.For instance, ?????
is another word for Cuck-old in Chinese, but it can also translate as ?greenhat?
and ?green scarf?.
Nonetheless, green hat|???
uniquely identifies the literal sense of ?????
(a green covering) while green scarf|??
?and cuckold|???
both identify the same humansense, the former being a distinctly culture-specificmetaphor for cuckolded males (in English, a dispos-sessed lover ?wears the cuckold?s horns?
; in Chi-nese, one apparently ?wears a green scarf?
).We employ the same two-phase design as Vealeand Hao: an initial set of Chinese adjectives areextracted from HowNet, with the stipulation thattheir English translations (as given by HowNet) arealso categorized as adjectives in WordNet.
Wethen use the Chinese equivalent of the English sim-ile frame ??
* ??ADJ?
(literally, ?as-NOUN-equally-ADJ?)
to retrieve a set of noun values thatstereotypically embody these adjectival features.Again, a set of 200 snippets is analyzed for eachquery, and only those values of the Google * wild-card that HowNet categorizes as nouns are accepted.In a second phase, these nouns are used to createnew queries of the form ??Noun??*?
and the re-sulting Google snippets are now scanned for adjec-tival values of *.In all, 25,585 unique Chinese similes (i.e., pair-ings of an adjective to a noun) are harvested, link-ing 3080 different Chinese adjectives to 4162 Chi-nese nouns.
When hand-annotated by a native Chi-nese speaker, the Chinese simile frame reveals it-self to be considerably less leaky than the corre-sponding English frame.
Over 58% of these pairings(14,867) are tagged as well-formed and meaning-ful similes that convey some stereotypical elementof world knowledge.
The Chinese pattern ??*??*?
is thus almost twice as reliable as the English?as * as a *?
pattern.
In addition, Chinese speak-ers exploit the simile frame much less frequently forironic purposes, since just 185 of the retrieved sim-iles (or 0.7%) are tagged as ironic, compared withten times as many (or 7%) retrieved English similes.In the next section we consider the extent to whichthese English and Chinese similes convey the sameinformation.4 Tagging and Mapping of SimilesIn each case, the harvesting processes for Englishand for Chinese allow us to acquire stereotypi-526cal associations between words, not word senses.Nonetheless, the frequent use of synonymous termsintroduces a substantial degree of redundancy inthese associations, and this redundancy can be usedto perform sense discrimination.
In the case of En-glish similes, Veale and Hao (2007) describe howtwo English similes ?as A as N1?
and ?as A asN2?
will be mutually disambiguating if N1 andN2 are synonyms in WordNet, or if some senseof N1 is a hypernym or hyponym of some senseof N2 in WordNet.
This heuristic allows Vealeand Hao to automatically sense-tag 85%, or 10,378,of the unique similes that are annotated as valid.We apply a similar intuition to the disambiguationof Chinese similes: though HowNet does not sup-port the notion of a synset, different word-sensesthat have the same meaning will be associated withthe same logical definition.
Thus, the Chineseword ????
can translate as ?celebrated?, ?fa-mous?, ?well-known?
and ?reputable?, but all fourof these possible senses, given by celebrated|??,famous|?
?, well-known|??
and reputable|?
?, are associated with the same logical form inHowNet, which defines them as a specialization ofReputationValue|???.
This allows us to safelyidentify ????
with this logical form.
Overall, 69%of Chinese similes can have both their adjective andnoun assigned to specific HowNet meanings in thisway.4.1 Translation Equivalence Among SimilesSince HowNet represents an integration of Englishand Chinese lexicons, it can easily be used to con-nect the English and Chinese data-sets.
For whilethe words used in any given simile are likely tobe ambiguous (in the case of one-character Chinesewords, highly so), it would seem unlikely that anincorrect translation of a web simile would also befound on the web.
This is an intuition that we cannow use the annotated data-sets to evaluate.For every English simile of the form <Ae asNe>, we use HowNet to generate a range of possibleChinese variations <Ac0 as Nc0>, <Ac1 as Nc0>,<Ac0 as Nc1>, <Ac1 as Nc1>, ... by using theHowNet lexical entries Ae|Ac0, Ae|Ac1, ..., Ne|Nc0,Ne|Nc1, ... as a translation bridge.
If the variation<Aci as Ncj> is found in the Chinese data-set, thentranslation equivalence is assumed between <Ae asLanguage Precision Recall F1English 0.76 0.25 0.38Chinese 0.82 0.27 0.41Table 1: Automatic filtering of similes using TranslationEquivalence.Ne> and <Aci as Ncj>; furthermore, Ae|Aci is as-sumed to be the HowNet sense of the adjectives Aeand Aci while Ncj is assumed to be the HowNetsense of the nouns Ne and Ncj .
Sense-tagging isthus a useful side-effect of simile-mapping with abilingual lexicon.We attempt to find Chinese translation equiva-lences for all 42,618 of the English adjective:nounpairings harvested by Veale and Hao; this includesboth the 12,259 pairings that were hand-annotated asvalid stereotypical facts, and the remaining 30,359that were dismissed as noisy or ironic.
UsingHowNet, we can establish equivalences from 4177English similes to 4867 Chinese similes.
In thosemapped, we find 3194 English similes and 4019Chinese similes that were hand-annotated as validby their respective native-speaker judges.
In otherwords, translation equivalence can be used to sep-arate well-formed stereotypical beliefs from ill-formed or ironic beliefs with approximately 80%precision.
The precise situation is summarized inTable 1.As noted in section 3, just 29% of raw Englishsimiles and 58% of raw Chinese similes that are har-vested from web-text are judged as valid stereotyp-ical statements by a native-speaking judge.
For thetask of filtering irony and noise from raw data sets,translation equivalence thus offers good precisionbut poor recall, since most English similes appearnot to have a corresponding Chinese variant on theweb.
Nonetheless, this heuristic allows us to reliablyidentify a sizeable body of cross-cultural stereotypesthat hold in both languages.4.1.1 Error AnalysisNoisy propositions may add little but empty con-tent to a representation, but ironic propositions willactively undermine a representation from within,leading to inferences that are not just unlikely, butpatently false (as is generally the intention of irony).Since Veale and Hao (2007) annotate their data-527set for irony, this allows us to measure the numberof egregious mistakes made when using translationequivalence as a simile filter.
Overall, we see that1% of Chinese similes that are accepted via transla-tion equivalence are ironic, accounting for 9% of allerrors made when filtering Chinese similes.
Like-wise, 1% of the English similes that are accepted areironic, accounting for 5% of all errors made whenfiltering English similes.4.2 Representational SynergiesBy mapping WordNet-tagged English similes ontoHowNet-tagged Chinese similes, we effectively ob-tain two representational viewpoints onto the sameshared data set.
For instance, though HowNethas a much shallower hierarchical organizationthan WordNet, it compensates by encapsulating themeaning of different word senses using simple log-ical formulae of semantic primitives, or sememes,that are derived from the meaning of common Chi-nese characters.
WordNet and HowNet thus offertwo complementary levels or granularities of gen-eralization that can be exploited as the context de-mands.4.2.1 Adjective OrganizationUnlike WordNet, HowNet organizes its adjec-tival senses hierarchically, allowing one to obtaina weaker form of a given description by climb-ing the hierarchy, or to obtain a stronger form bydescending the hierarchy from a particular sense.Thus, one can go up from kaleidoscopic|????
to colored|?, or down from colored|?
toany of motley|?
?, dappled|?
?, prismatic|????
and even gorgeous|??.
Once stereotypi-cal descriptions have been sense-tagged relative toHowNet, they can easily be further enhanced orbleached to suit the context of their use.
For exam-ple, by allowing a Chinese adjective to denote anyof the senses above it or below in the HowNet hi-erarchy, we can extend the mapping of English toChinese similes so as to achieve an improved recallof .36 (though we note that this technique reducesthe precision of the translation-equivalence heuristicto .75).As demonstrated by Almuhareb and Poesio(2004), the best conceptual descriptions combineadjectival values with the attributes that they fill.Because adjectival senses hook into HowNet?s up-per ontology via a series of abstract taxonyms likeTasteValue|??
?, ReputationValue|???
andAmountValue|??
?, a taxonym of the form At-tributeValue can be identified for every adjectivesense in HowNet.
For example, the English ad-jective ?beautiful?
can denote either beautiful|?,organized by HowNet under BeautyValue|??
?, or beautiful|?, organized by HowNet un-der gracious|?
which in turn is organized underGraceValue|???.
The adjective ?beautiful?
cantherefore specify either the Grace or Beauty at-tributes of a concept.
Once similes have been sense-tagged, we can build up a picture of most salient at-tributes of our stereotypical concepts.
For instance,?peacock?
similes yield the following attributes viaHowNet: Beauty, Appearance, Color, Pride, Be-havior, Resplendence, Bearing and Grace; likewise?demon?
similes yield the following: Morality, Be-havior, Temperament, Ability and Competence.4.2.2 Orthographic FormThe Chinese data-set lacks counterparts to manysimiles that one would not think of as culturally-determined, such ?as red as a ruby?, ?as cruel asa tyrant?
and ?as smelly as a skunk?.
One signifi-cant reason for this kind of omission is not culturaldifference, but obviousness: many Chinese wordsare multi-character gestalts of different ideas (seePackard, 2000), so that these ideas form an explicitpart of the orthography of a lexical concept.
For in-stance, using HowNet, we can see that skunk|?
?is actually a gestalt of the concepts smelly|?
andweasel|?, so the simile ?as smelly as a skunk?
isalready somewhat redundant in Chinese (somewhatakin to the English similes ?as hot as a hotdog?
or?as hard as a hardhat?
).Such decomposition can allow us to find thoseEnglish similes that are already orthographically ex-plicit in Chinese word-forms.
We simply look forpairs of HowNet senses of the form Noun|XYZ andAdj|X, where X and XYZ are Chinese words and thesimile ?as Adj as a|an Noun?
is found in the Englishsimile set.
When we do so, we find that 648 Englishsimiles, from ?as meaty as a steak?
to ?as resonantas a cello?, are already fossilized in the orthographicrealization of the corresponding Chinese concepts.When fossilized similes are uncovered in this way,528the recall of translation equivalence as a noise filterrises to .29, while its precision rises to .84 (see Table1)5 Empirical Evaluation: Simile-derivedRepresentationsStereotypes persist in language and culture becausethey are, more often than not, cognitively useful:by emphasizing the most salient aspects of a con-cept, a stereotype acts as a dense conceptual descrip-tion that is easily communicated, widely shared,and which supports rapid inference.
To demonstratethe usefulness of stereotype-based concept descrip-tions, we replicate here the clustering experimentsof Almuhareb and Poesio (2004, 2005), who in turndemonstrated that conceptual features that are minedfrom specific textual patterns can be used to con-struct WordNet-like ontological structures.
Theseauthors used different text patterns for mining fea-ture values (like hot) and attributes (like tempera-ture), and their experiments evaluated the relative ef-fectiveness of each as a means of ontological cluster-ing.
Since our focus in this paper is on the harvestingof feature values, we replicate here only their exper-iments with values.Almuhareb and Poesio (2004) used as their ex-perimental basis a sampling of 214 English nounsfrom 13 of WordNet?s upper-level semantic cate-gories, and proceeded to harvest adjectival featuresfor these noun-concepts from the web using the tex-tual pattern ?
[a | an | the] * C [is |was]?.
This patternyielded a combined total of 51,045 value featuresfor these 214 nouns, such as hot, black, etc., whichwere then used as the basis of a clustering algorithmin an attempt to reconstruct the WordNet classifica-tions for all 214 nouns.
Clustering was performedby the CLUTO-2.1 package (Karypis, 2003), whichpartitioned the 214 nouns in 13 categories on the ba-sis of their 51,045 web-derived features.
Compar-ing these clusters with the original WordNet-basedgroupings, Almuhareb and Poesio report a cluster-ing accuracy of 71.96%.
In a second, larger exper-iment, Almuhareb and Poesio (2005) sampled 402nouns from 21 different semantic classes in Word-Net, and harvested 94,989 feature values from theweb using the same textual pattern.
They then ap-plied the repeated bisections clustering algorithm toApproach accuracy featuresAlmuhareb + Poesio 71.96% 51,045Simile-derived stereotypes 70.2% 2,209Table 2: Results for experiment 1 (214 nouns, 13 WNcategories).Approach Cluster Cluster featurespurity entropyAlmu.
+ Poesio(no filtering) 56.7% 38.4% 94,989Almu.
+ Poesio(with filtering) 62.7% 33.8% 51345Simile-derivedstereotypes(no filtering) 64.3% 33% 5,547Table 3: Results for experiment 2 (402 nouns, 21 WNcategories).this larger data set, and report an initial cluster puritymeasure of 56.7%.
Suspecting that a noisy featureset had contributed to the apparent drop in perfor-mance, these authors then proceed to apply a varietyof noise filters to reduce the set of feature values to51,345, which in turn leads to an improved clusterpurity measure of 62.7%.We replicated both of Almuhareb and Poesio?sexperiments on the same experimental data-sets (of214 and 402 nouns respectively), using instead theEnglish simile pattern ?as * as a NOUN?
to harvestfeatures for these nouns from the web.
Note thatin keeping with the original experiments, no hand-tagging or filtering of these features is performed, sothat every raw match with the simile pattern is used.Overall, we harvest just 2209 feature values for the214 nouns of experiment 1, and 5547 features for the402 nouns of experiment 2.
A comparison of bothsets of results for experiment 1 is shown is Table 2,while a comparison based on experiment 2 is shownis Table 3.While Almuhareb and Poesio achieve marginallyhigher clustering on the 214 nouns of experiment 1,they do so by using over 20 times as many features.529In experiment 2, we see a similar ratio of featurequantities before filtering; after some initial filtering,Almuhareb and Poesio reduce their feature set to justunder 10 times the size of the simile-derived featureset.These experiments demonstrate two key pointsabout stereotype-based representations.
First, thefeature representations do not need to be hand-filtered and noise-free to be effective; we see fromthe above results that the raw values extractedfrom the simile pattern prove slightly more effec-tive than filtered feature sets used by Almuhareb andPoesio.
Secondly, and perhaps more importantly,stereotype-based representations prove themselves amuch more compact means (by factor of 10 to 20times) of achieving the same clustering goals.6 ConclusionsKnowledge-acquisition from texts can be a processfraught with complexity: such texts - especiallyweb-based texts - are frequently under-determinedand vague; highly ambiguous, both lexically andstructurally; and dense with figures of speech, hy-perbolae and irony.
None of the syntagmatic framessurveyed in section 2, from the ?NP such as NP1,NP2 ...?
pattern of Hearst (1992) and Etzioni et al(2004) to the ?no longer NOUN?
pattern of Vo?lkeret al (2005), are leak-free and immune to noise.Cimiano and Wenderoth (2007) mitigate this prob-lem somewhat by performing part-of-speech anal-ysis on all extracted text sequences, but the prob-lem remains: the surgical, pattern-based approachoffers an efficient and targeted means of knowledge-acquisition from corpora because it largely ignoresthe context in which these patterns occur; yet onerequires this context to determine if a given text se-quence really is a good exemplar of the semantic re-lationship that is sought.In this paper we have described how stereotyp-ical associations between adjectival properties andnoun concepts can be mined from similes in webtext.
When harvested in both English and Chi-nese, these associations exhibit two kinds of re-dundancy that can mitigate the problem of noise.The first kind, within-language redundancy, allowsus to perform sense-tagging of the adjectives andnouns that are used in similes, by exploiting thefact that the same stereotypical association can oc-cur in a variety of synonymous forms.
By recog-nizing synonymy between the elements of differentsimiles, we can thus identify the underlying senses(or WordNet synsets) in these similes.
The sec-ond kind, between-language redundancy, exploitsthe fact that the same associations can occur in dif-ferent languages, allowing us to exploit translation-equivalence to pin these associations to particularlexical concepts in a multilingual lexical ontologylike HowNet.
While between-language redundancyis a limited phenomenon, with just 26% of Vealeand Hao?s annotated English similes having Chinesetranslations on the web, this phenomenon does allowus to identify a significant core of shared stereotyp-ical knowledge across these two very different lan-guages.Overall, our analysis suggests that a comparablenumber of well-formed Chinese and English similescan be mined from the web (our exploration findsapprox.
12,000 unique examples of each).
Thisdemonstrates that harvesting stereotypical knowl-edge from similes is a workable strategy in both lan-guages.
Moreover, Chinese simile usage is charac-terized by two interesting facts that are of some prac-tical import: the simile frame ??NOUN?
?ADJ?is a good deal less leaky and prone to noise than theequivalent English frame, ?as ADJ as a NOUN?
; andChinese speakers appear less willing to subvert thestereotypical norms of similes for ironic purposes.Further research is needed to determine whetherthese observations generalize to other knowledge-mining patterns.ReferencesA.
Almuhareb and M. Poesio.
2004.
Attribute-Based andValue-Based Clustering: An Evaluation.
In proceed-ings of EMNLP 2004, pp 158?165.
Barcelona, Spain.A.
Almuhareb and M. Poesio.
2005.
Concept Learningand Categorization from the Web.
In proceedings ofCogSci 2005, the 27th Annual Conference of the Cog-nitive Science Society.
New Jersey: Lawrence Erl-baum.C.
Dickens.
1843/1981.
A Christmas Carol.
PuffinBooks, Middlesex, UK.C.
Fellbaum.
1998.
WordNet, an electronic lexicaldatabase.
MIT Press.E.
Charniak and M. Berland.
1999.
Finding parts in530very large corpora.
In proceedings of the 37th AnnualMeeting of the ACL, pp 57-64.F.
Keller, M. Lapata, and O. Ourioupina.
2002.
Usingthe web to overcome data sparseness.
In proceedingsof EMNLP-02, pp 230-237.F.
Keller, M. Lapata, and O. Ourioupina.
1990.
Buildinglarge knowledge-based systems: representation andinference in the Cyc project.
Addison-Wesley.G.
Karypis.
2003.
CLUTO: A clustering toolkit.
Univer-sity of Minnesota.J.
L. Packard.
2000.
The Morphology of Chinese: ALinguistic and Cognitive Approach.
Cambridge Uni-versity Press, UK.J.
Pustejovsky.
1991.
The generative lexicon.
Computa-tional Linguistics 17(4), pp 209-441.J.
Vo?lker, D. Vrandecic and Y.
Sure.
2005.
AutomaticEvaluation of Ontologies (AEON).
In Y. Gil, E. Motta,V.
R. Benjamins, M. A. Musen, Proceedings of the 4thInternational Semantic Web Conference (ISWC2005),volume 3729 of LNCS, pp.
716-731.
Springer VerlagBerlin-Heidelberg.M.
Hearst.
1992.
Automatic acquisition of hyponymsfrom large text corpora.
In proceedings of the 14thintenatinal conference on Computational Linguistics,pp 539-545.O.
Etzioni, S. Kok, S. Soderland, M. Cafarella, A-M.Popescu, D. Weld, D. Downey, T. Shaked and A.Yates.
2004.
Web-scale information extraction inKnowItAll (preliminary results).
In proceedings of the13th WWW Conference, pp 100-109.P.
Cimiano and J. Wenderoth.
2007.
Automatic Acqui-sition of Ranked Qualia Structures from the Web.
Inproceedings of the 45th Annual Meeting of the ACL,pp 888?895.P.
Resnik and N. A. Smith.
2003.
The Web as a parallelcorpus.
Computational Linguistics, 29(3),pp 349-380.S.
Harabagiu, G. Miller and D. Moldovan.
1999.
Word-Net2 - a morphologically and semantically enhancedresource.
In proceedings of SIGLEX-99, pp 1-8, Uni-versity of Maryland.T.
Veale and Y. Hao.
2007.
Making Lexical OntologiesFunctional and Context-Sensitive.
In proceedings ofthe 45th Annual Meeting of the ACL, pp 57-64.Z.
Dong and Q. Dong.
2006.
HowNet and the Computa-tion of Meaning.
World Scientific: Singapore.531
