Proceedings of ACL-08: HLT, Short Papers (Companion Volume), pages 169?172,Columbus, Ohio, USA, June 2008. c?2008 Association for Computational LinguisticsHigh Frequency Word Entrainment in Spoken DialogueAni NenkovaDept.
of Computer and Information ScienceUniversity of PennsylvaniaPhiladelphia, PA 19104, USAnenkova@seas.upenn.eduAgust?
?n GravanoDept.
of Computer ScienceColumbia UniversityNew York, NY 10027, USAagus@cs.columbia.eduJulia HirschbergDept.
of Computer ScienceColumbia UniversityNew York, NY 10027, USAjulia@cs.columbia.eduAbstractCognitive theories of dialogue hold that en-trainment, the automatic alignment betweendialogue partners at many levels of linguisticrepresentation, is key to facilitating both pro-duction and comprehension in dialogue.
Inthis paper we examine novel types of entrain-ment in two corpora?Switchboard and theColumbia Games corpus.
We examine en-trainment in use of high-frequency words (themost common words in the corpus), and its as-sociation with dialogue naturalness and flow,as well as with task success.
Our results showthat such entrainment is predictive of the per-ceived naturalness of dialogues and is signifi-cantly correlated with task success; in overallinteraction flow, higher degrees of entrainmentare associated with more overlaps and fewerinterruptions.1 IntroductionWhen people engage in conversation, they adapt theway they speak to their conversational partner.
Forexample, they often adopt a certain way of describ-ing something based upon the way their conversa-tional partner describes it, negotiating a commondescription, particularly for items that may be un-familiar to them (Brennan, 1996).
They also altertheir amplitude, if the person they are speaking withspeaks louder than they do (Coulston et al, 2002),or reuse syntactic constructions employed earlier inthe conversation (Reitter et al, 2006).
This phe-nomenon is known in the literature as entrainment,accommodation, adaptation, or alignment.There is a considerable body of literature whichposits that entrainment may be crucial to human per-ception of dialogue success and overall quality, aswell as to participants?
evaluation of their conversa-tional partners.
Pickering and Garrod (2004) pro-pose that the automatic alignment at many levels oflinguistic representation (lexical, syntactic and se-mantic) is key for both production and comprehen-sion in dialogue, and facilitates interaction.
Gole-man (2006) also claims that a key to successful com-munication is human ability to synchronize theircommunicative behavior with that of their conver-sational partner.
For example, in laboratory stud-ies of non-verbal entrainment (mimicry of manner-isms and facial expressions between subjects anda confederate), Chartrand and Bargh (1999) foundnot only that subjects displayed a strong uninten-tional entrainment, but also that greater entrain-ment/mimicry led subjects to feel that they liked theconfederate more and that the overall interaction wasprogressing more smoothly.
People who had a highinclination for empathy (understanding the point ofview of the other) entrained to a greater extent thanothers.
Reitter et al (2007) also found that degree ofentrainment in lexical and syntactic repetitions thatoccurred in only the first five minutes of each dia-logue significantly predicted task success in studiesof the HCRC Map Task Corpus.In this paper we examine a novel dimension ofentrainment between conversation partners: the useof high-frequency words, the most frequent words inthe dialogue or corpus.
In Section 2 we describe ex-periments on high-frequency word entrainment andperceived dialogue naturalness in Switchboard dia-169logues.
The degree of high-frequency word entrain-ment predicts naturalness with an accuracy of 67%over a 50% baseline.
In Section 3 we discuss experi-ments on the association of high-frequency word en-trainment with task success and turn-taking.
Resultsshow that degree of high-frequency word entrain-ment is positively and significantly correlated withtask success and proportion of overlaps in these di-alogues, and negatively and significantly correlatedwith proportion of interruptions.2 Predicting perceived naturalness2.1 The Switchboard CorpusThe Switchboard Corpus (Godfrey et al, 1992) isa collection of recordings of spontaneous telephoneconversations between speakers of many varieties ofAmerican English who were asked to discuss a pre-assigned topic from a set including favorite types ofmusic or the new roles of women in society.
Thecorpus consists of 2430 conversations with an aver-age duration of 6 minutes, for a total of 240 hoursand three million words.
The corpus has been ortho-graphically transcribed and annotated for degree ofnaturalness on Likert scales from 1 (very natural) to5 (not natural at all).2.2 Entrainment and perceived naturalnessPrevious studies (Niederhoffer and Pennebaker,2002) have suggested that adaptation in overall wordcount as well as words of particular parts of speech,or words associated with emotion or with variouscognitive states, can predict the degree of coordi-nation and engagement of conversational partners.Here, we examine conversational partners?
similar-ity in high-frequency word usage in the Switchboardcorpus as a predictor of the hand-annotated natural-ness scores for their conversation.
Using entrain-ment over the most frequent words in the entire cor-pus has the advantage of avoiding sparsity problems;we hypothesize that it will be more general and ro-bust than attempting to measure lexical entrainmentover the high-frequency words that occur in a partic-ular conversation.Our measure of entrainment entr(w) is defined asthe negated absolute value of the difference betweenthe fraction of times a particular word w is used bythe two speakers S1 and S2.
More formally,entr(w) = ?????countS1(w)ALLS1?
countS2(w)ALLS2???
?Here, ALLSi is the number of all words ut-tered by speaker Si in the given conversation, andcountSi(w) is the number of times Si used word w.The entr(w) statistic was computed for the 100most common words in the entire Switchboard cor-pus and feature selection was used to determine the25 most predictive words used for later classifica-tion: um, how, okay, go, I?ve, all, very, as, or, up, a,no, more, something, from, this, what, too, got, can,he, in, things, you, and.The data for the experiments was a balanced set of250 conversations rated ?1?
(very natural) and 250examples of problematic conversations with ratingsof 3, 4 or 5.
The accuracy of predicting the binarynaturalness (ratings of 1 or 3-5) of each conversa-tion from a logistic regression model is 63.76%, sig-nificantly over a 50% random baseline.
This resultconfirms the hypothesis that entrainment in high-frequency word usage is a good indicator of the per-ceived naturalness of a conversation.Some of our 25 high-frequency words are in factcue phrases, which are important indicators of dia-logue structure.
This suggests that a more focusedexamination of this class of words might be useful.3 Association with task success anddialogue flow3.1 The Columbia Games CorpusThe Columbia Games Corpus (Benus et al, 2007) isa collection of 12 spontaneous task-oriented dyadicconversations elicited from native speakers of Stan-dard American English.
Subjects played a seriesof computer games requiring verbal communicationbetween partners to achieve a common goal, ei-ther identifying matching cards appearing on eachof their screens, or moving an object on one screento the same location in which it appeared on theother, where each subject could see only their ownscreen.
The games were designed to encourage fre-quent and natural conversation by engaging the sub-jects in competitive yet collaborative tasks.
For ex-ample, players could receive points in the games in avariety of ways and had to negotiate the best strategy170for matching cards; in other games, they receivedmore points if they could place objects in exactlythe same location.
Subjects were scored on eachgame and their overall score determined the addi-tional monetary compensation they would receive.A total of 9h 8m (?73,800 words) of dialogue wererecorded.
All files in the corpus were orthograph-ically transcribed and words were hand-aligned bytrained annotators.
A subset of the corpus was alsolabeled for different types of turn-taking behavior.These include (i) smooth turn exchanges?speakerS2 takes the floor after speaker S1 has completed herturn, with no overlap; (ii) overlaps?S2 starts histurn before S1 has completely finished her turn, butS1 does complete her turn; (iii) interruptions?S2starts talking before S1 completes her turn, and as aresult S1 does not complete her utterance.
We usedthese annotations to study the association betweenentrainment and turn-taking behavior.3.2 Entrainment and task successIn the Columbia Games Corpus, we hypothesize thatthe game score achieved by the participants is a goodmeasure of the effectiveness of the dialogue.
To de-termine the extent to which task success is relatedto the degree of entrainment in high-frequency wordusage, we examined 48 dialogues.
We computed thecorrelation coefficient between the game score (nor-malized by the highest achieved score for the gametype) and two different ways of quantifying the de-gree of entrainment between the speakers (S1 andS2) in several word classes.
In addition to overallhigh-frequency words, we looked at two subclassesof words often used in dialogue:25MF-G The 25 most frequent words in the game.25MF-C The 25 most frequent words over the entirecorpus: the, a, okay, and, of, I, on, right, is, it, that, have,yeah, like, in, left, it?s, uh, so, top, um, bottom, with, you, to.ACW Affirmative cue words: alright, gotcha, huh,mm-hm, okay, right, uh-huh, yeah, yep, yes, yup.
Thereare 5831 instances in the corpus (7.9% of all words).FP Filled pauses: uh, um, mm.
The corpus contains1845 instances of filled pauses (2.5% of all tokens).We generalize our measure of word entrainmententr(w) to each of these classes of words c:ENTR1(c) =?w?centr(w)ENTR1 ranges from 0 to ?
?, with 0 meaning per-fect match on usage of lexical items in class c. Analternative measure of entrainment that we experi-mented with is defined asENTR2(c) = ??w?c|countS1(w)?
countS2(w)|?w?c(countS1(w) + countS2(w))The entrainment score defined in this way rangesfrom 0 to ?1, with 0 meaning perfect match on lex-ical usage and ?1 meaning perfect mismatch.The correlations between the normalized gamescore and these measures of entrainment are shownin Table 1.
ENTR1 for the 25 most frequent words,both corpus-wide and game-specific, is highly andsignificantly correlated with task success, withstronger results for game-specific words.
For theENTR1 ENTR2Word class cor p cor p25MF-C 0.341 0.018 0.187 0.20225MF-G 0.376 0.008 0.260 0.074ACW 0.230 0.116 0.372 0.009FP ?0.080 0.591 ?0.007 0.964Table 1: Pearson?s correlation with game score.filled pauses class, there is essentially no correlationbetween entrainment and task success, while for af-firmative cue words there is association only underthe ENTR2 definition of entrainment.
The differ-ence in results between ENTR1 and ENTR2 sug-gests that the two measures of entrainment capturedifferent aspects of dialogue coordination and thatexploring various formulations of entrainment de-serves future attention.3.3 Dialogue coordinationThe coordination of turn-taking in dialogue is espe-cially important for successful interaction.
Speechoverlaps (O), might indicate a lively, highly coor-dinated conversation, with participants anticipatingthe end of their interlocutor?s speaking turn.
Smoothswitches of turns (S) with no overlapping speechare also characteristic of good coordination, in caseswhere these are not accompanied by long pauses be-tween turns.
On the other hand, interruptions (I)and long inter-turn latency (L)?long simultaneouspauses by the speakers?
are generally perceived asa sign of poorly coordinated dialogues.171To determine the relationship between entrain-ment and dialogue coordination, we examined thecorrelation between entrainment types and the pro-portion of interruptions, smooth switches and over-laps, for which we have manual annotations for asubset of 12 dialogues.
We also looked at the cor-relation of entrainment with mean latency in eachdialogue.
Table 2 summarizes our major findings.cor pENTR1(25MF-C) I ?0.612 0.035ENTR1(25MF-G) I ?0.514 0.087ENTR1(ACW) O 0.636 0.026ENTR2(ACW) O 0.606 0.037ENTR1(FP) O 0.750 0.005ENTR2(25MF-G) O 0.605 0.037ENTR2(25MF-G) S ?0.663 0.019ENTR2(ACW) L ?0.757 0.004ENTR2(25MF-G) L ?0.523 0.081Table 2: Pearson?s correlation with proportion of over-laps, interruptions, smooth switches, and mean latency.The two measures that were significantly cor-related with task success?ENTR1(25MF-C) andENTR1(25MF-G)?also correlated negatively withthe proportion of interruptions in the dialogue.
Thisfinding could have important implications for the de-velopment of spoken dialog systems (SDS).
For ex-ample, a measure of entrainment might be used toanticipate the user?s propensity to interrupt the sys-tem, signalling the need to change dialogue strategy.It also suggests that if the system entrains to users itmight help to reduce such interruptions.
While ourstudy is of association, not causality, this suggestsfuture areas of investigation.Our other correlations reveal that turn exchangescharacterized by overlaps are reliably associatedwith entrainment in usage of affirmative cue word,filled pauses and game-specific most frequentwords.
Long latency is negatively associated withentrainment in affirmative cue words and game-specific most frequent words.
Overall, the moreentrainment, the more engaged the participants andthe better coordination there is between them, withshorter latencies and more overlaps.Unexpectedly, smooth switches correlate nega-tively with entrainment in game-specific most fre-quent words.
This result might be confounded by thepresence of long latencies in some switches.
Whilesmooth switches are desirable, especially in SDS,long latencies between turns can indicate lack of co-ordination.4 ConclusionWe present a corpus study relating dialogue natural-ness, success and coordination with speaker entrain-ment on common words: most frequent words over-all, most frequent words in a dialogue, filled pauses,and affirmative cue words.
We find that degree ofentrainment with respect to most frequent words candistinguish dialogues rated most natural from thoserated less natural.
Entrainment over classes of com-mon words also strongly correlates with task successand highly engaged and coordinated turn-taking be-havior.
Entrainment over corpus-wide most frequentwords significantly correlates with task success andminimal interruptions?important goals of SDS.
Infuture work we will explore the consequences ofsystem entrainment to SDS users in helping systemsachieve these goals, and the use of simple measuresof entrainment to modify dialogue strategies in orderto decrease the occurrence of user interruptions.AcknowledgmentsThis work was funded in part by NSF IIS-0307905.ReferencesS.
Benus, A. Gravano, and J. Hirschberg.
2007.The prosody of backchannels in American English.ICPhS?07.S.E.
Brennan.
1996.
Lexical entrainment in spontaneousdialog.
ISSD?96.T.
Chartrand and J. Bargh.
1999.
The chameleon ef-fect: the perception-behavior link and social interac-tion.
J. of Personality & Social Psych., 76(6):893?910.R.
Coulston, S. Oviatt, and C. Darves.
2002.
Amplitudeconvergence in children?s conversational speech withanimated personas.
ICSLP?02.J.
Godfrey, E. Holliman, and J. McDaniel.
1992.SWITCHBOARD: Telephone speech corpus for re-search and development.
ICASSP?92.Daniel Goleman.
2006.
Social Intelligence.
Bantam.K.
Niederhoffer and J. Pennebaker.
2002.
Linguisticstyle matching in social interaction.M.
J. Pickering and S. Garrod.
2004.
Toward a mecha-nistic psychology of dialogue.
Behavioral and BrainSciences, 27:169?226.D.
Reitter and J. Moore.
2007.
Predicting success indialogue.
ACL?07.D.
Reitter, F. Keller, and J.D.
Moore.
2006.
Compu-tational Modelling of Structural Priming in Dialogue.HLT-NAACL?06.172
