Proceedings of ACL-08: HLT, Short Papers (Companion Volume), pages 193?196,Columbus, Ohio, USA, June 2008. c?2008 Association for Computational LinguisticsQuery-based sentence fusion is better defined and leads tomore preferred results than generic sentence fusion?Emiel KrahmerTilburg UniversityTilburg, The NetherlandsE.J.Krahmer@uvt.nlErwin MarsiTilburg UniversityTilburg, The NetherlandsE.C.Marsi@uvt.nlPaul van PeltTilburg UniversityTilburg, The Netherlandspaul.vanpelt@gmail.comAbstractWe show that question-based sentence fu-sion is a better defined task than generic sen-tence fusion (Q-based fusions are shorter, dis-play less variety in length, yield more identi-cal results and have higher normalized Rougescores).
Moreover, we show that in a QA set-ting, participants strongly prefer Q-based fu-sions over generic ones, and have a preferencefor union over intersection fusions.1 IntroductionSentence fusion is a text-to-text generation applica-tion, which given two related sentences, outputs asingle sentence expressing the information sharedby the two input sentences (Barzilay and McKeown2005).
Consider, for example, the following pair ofsentences:1(1) Posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) is apsychological disorder which is classified asan anxiety disorder in the DSM-IV.
(2) Posttraumatic stress disorder (abbrev.PTSD) is a psychological disorder caused bya mental trauma (also called psychotrauma)that can develop after exposure to a terrifyingevent.
?Thanks are due to Ed Hovy for discussions on the Rougemetrics and to Carel van Wijk for statistical advice.
The data-set described in this paper (2200 fusions of pairs of sentences)is available upon request.
This research was carried out withinthe Deaso project (http://daeso.uvt.nl/).1All examples are English translations of Dutch originals.Fusing these two sentences with the strategy de-scribed by Barzilay and McKeown (based on align-ing and fusing the respective dependency trees)would result in a sentence like (3).
(3) Posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) is apsychological disorder.Barzilay and McKeown (2005) argue convincinglythat employing such a fusion strategy in a multi-document summarization system can result in moreinformative and more coherent summaries.It should be noted, however, that there are multi-ple ways to fuse two sentences.
Besides fusing theshared information present in both sentences, we canconceivably also fuse them such that all informationpresent in either of the sentences is kept, without anyredundancies.
Marsi and Krahmer (2005) refer tothis latter strategy as union fusion (as opposed tointersection fusion, as in (3)).
A possible union fu-sion of (1) and (2) would be:(4) Posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) is apsychological disorder, which is classifiedas an anxiety disorder in the DSM-IV,caused by a mental trauma (also called psy-chotrauma) that can develop after exposureto a terrifying event.Marsi and Krahmer (2005) propose an algorithmwhich is capable of producing both fusion types.Which type is more useful is likely to depend onthe kind of application and information needs of theuser, but this is essentially still an open question.193However, there is a complication.
Daume?
III &Marcu (2004) argue that generic sentence fusion isan ill-defined task.
They describe experimental datashowing that when participants are given two con-secutive sentences from a single document and areasked to fuse them (in the intersection sense), differ-ent participants produce very different fusions.
Nat-urally, if human participants cannot reliably performfusions, evaluating automatic fusion strategies is al-ways going to be a shaky business.
The questionis why different participants come to different fu-sions.
One possibility, which we explore in this pa-per, is that it is the generic nature of the fusion whichcauses problems.
In particular, we hypothesize thatfusing two sentences in the context of a precedingquestion (the natural setting in QA applications) re-sults in more agreement among humans.
A relatedquestion is of course what the results would be forunion fusion.
Will people agree more on the unionsthan on the intersections?
And is the effect of a pre-ceding question the same for both kinds of fusion?In Experiment I, below, we address these questions,by collecting and comparing four different fusionsfor various pairs of related sentences, both genericand question-based ones, and both intersection andunion ones.While it seems a reasonable hypothesis thatquestion-based fusions will lead to more agreementamong humans, the really interesting question iswhich fusion strategy (if any) is most appreciatedby users in a task-based evaluation.
Given that Ex-periment I gives us four different fusions per pair ofsentence, an interesting follow-up question is whichleads to the best answers in a QA setting.
Do par-ticipants prefer concise (intersection) or complete(union) answers?
And does it matter whether thefusion was question-based or not?
In ExperimentII, we address these questions via an evaluationexperiment using a (simulated) medical question-answering system, in which participants have to rankfour answers (resulting from generic and question-based intersection and union fusions) for differentmedical questions.2 Experiment I: Data-collectionMethod To collect pairs of related sentences to befused under different conditions, we proceeded asFusion type Length M (SD) # Id.Generic Intersection 15.6 (2.9) 73Q-Based Intersection 8.1 (2.5) 189Generic Union 31.2 (7.8) 109Q-Based Union 19.2 (4.7) 134Table 1: Mean sentence length (plus Standard Deviation)and number of identical fusion results as a function offusion type (n = 550 for each type).follows.
As our starting point we used a set of100 medical questions compiled as a benchmark forevaluating medical QA systems, where all correctanswers were manually retrieved from the availabletext material.
Based on this set, we randomly se-lected 25 questions for which more than one answercould be found (otherwise there would be nothingto fuse), and where the first two answer sentencesshared at least some information (otherwise inter-section fusion would be impossible).Participants were 44 native speakers of Dutch (20women) with an average age of 30.1 years, nonewith a background in sentence fusion research.
Ex-periment I has a mixed between-within subjects de-sign.
Participants were randomly assigned to eitherthe intersection or the union condition, and withineach condition they first had to produce 25 genericand then 25 question-based fusions.
In the lattercase, participants were given the original questionused to retrieve the sentences to be fused.The experiment was run using a web-basedscript.
Participants were told that the purpose of theexperiment was merely to gather data, they were notinformed about our interest in generic vs questionbased fusion.
Before participants could start withtheir task, the concept of sentence fusion (eitherfusion or intersection, depending on the condition)was explained, using a number of worked examples.After this, the actual experiment started.Results First consider the descriptive statistics in Ta-ble 1.
Naturally, intersection fusion leads to shortersentences on average than union fusion.
More in-terestingly, question (Q)-based fusions lead to sig-nificantly shorter sentences than their generic coun-terparts (intersection t = 9.1, p < .001, union:t = 6.1, p < .001, two-tailed).
Also note that194Generic Q-Based Generic Q-BasedIntersection Intersection Union UnionRouge-1 .036 .068 .035 .041Rouge-SU4 .014 .038 .018 .020Rouge-SU9 .014 .040 .016 .020Table 2: Average Rouge-1, Rouge-SU4 and Rouge-SU9 (normalized for sentence length) as a function of fusion type.the variation among participants decreases in the Q-based conditions (lower standard deviations).
Thissuggests that participants in the Q-based conditionsindeed show less variety in their fusions than partic-ipants in the generic conditions.
This is confirmedby the number of identical (i.e., duplicated) fusions,which is indeed higher in the Q-based conditions,although the difference is only significant for inter-sections (?2(1) = 51.3, p < .001).We also computed average Rouge-1, Rouge-SU4and Rouge-SU9 scores for each set of fusions, tobe able to quantify the overlap between participantsin the various conditions.
One complication is thatthese metrics are sensitive to sentence-length (longersentences are more likely to contain overlappingwords than shorter ones), hence in Table 2 we reporton Rouge scores that are normalized with respectsentence length.
The resulting picture is surprisinglyconsistent: Q-based fusion on all three metrics re-sults in higher normalized Rouge scores, where thedifference is generally small in the case of union,and rather substantial for intersection.3 Experiment II: EvaluationThe previous experiment indicates that Q-basedfusion is indeed a better-defined summarization taskthan generic fusion, in this experiment we addressthe question which kind of fusion participants preferin a QA application.Method We selected 20 from the 25 questionsused in Experiment I, for which we made surethat the fusions in the four categories resultedin sentences with a sufficiently different content.For each question, one representative sentencewas selected from the 22 fusions produced byparticipants in Experiment I, for each of the fourcategories (Q-based intersection, Q-based union,Generic intersection and Generic union).
ThisFusion type Mean RankQ-Based Union 1.888Q-Based Intersection 2.471Generic Intersection 2.709Generic Union 2.932Table 4: Mean rank from 1 (= ?best?)
to 4 (=?worst?)
asa function of fusion type.representative sentence was the most frequent resultfor that particular category.
When no such sentencewas present for a particular task, a random selectionwas made.Participants were 38 native speakers of Dutch (17men), with an average age of 39.4 years.
Nonehad participated in Experiment I and none had abackground in sentence fusion research.
Participantswere confronted with the selected 20 questions, oneat a time.
For each question, participants saw fouralternative answers (one from each category).
Fig-ure 3 shows one question, with four different fusionsderived by participants from example sentences (1)and (2).
Naturally, the labels for the 4 fusion strate-gies were not part of the experiment.
Participantswere asked to rank the 4 answers from ?best?
(rank1) to ?worst?
(rank 4), via a forced choice paradigm(i.e., they also had to make a choice if they felt thattwo answers were roughly as good).
Experiment IIhad a within-subjects design, which means that all38 participants ranked the answers for all 20 ques-tions.Results Table 4 gives the mean rank for the fourfusion types.
To test for significance, we per-formed a repeated measures Analysis of Variance(ANOVA) with fusion type and question as the in-dependent variables and average rank as the depen-dent variable.
A main effect was found of fusiontype (F (3, 111) = 20.938, p < .001, ?2 = .361).195What is PTSD?Generic Intersection Posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) is a psychological disorder.Q-based Intersection PTSD stands for posttraumatic stress disorder and is a psychological disorder.Generic Union Posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) is a psychological disorder, which is classified as ananxiety disorder in the DSM-IV, caused by a mental trauma (also called psychotrauma) thatcan develop after exposure to a terrifying event.Q-based Union PTSD (posttraumatic stress disorder) is a psychological disorder caused by a mental trauma(also called psychotrauma) that can develop after exposure to a terrifying event.Table 3: Example question from Experiment II, with four possible answers, based on different fusions strategies(obtained in Experiment I).Pairwise comparisons using the Bonferroni methodshow that all comparisons are statistically significant(at p < .001) except for the one between Generic In-tersection and Generic Union.
Thus, in particular:Q-based union is ranked significantly higher thanQ-based intersection, which in turn is ranked sig-nificantly higher than both Generic union and inter-section (whose respective ranks are not significantlydifferent).The ANOVA analysis also revealed a significantinteraction between question and type of fusion(F (57, 2109) = 7.459, p < .001, ?2 = .168).2What this means is that relative ranking varies fordifferent questions.
To better understand this inter-action, we performed a series of Friedman tests foreach question (the Friedman test is a standard non-parametric test for ranked data).
The Friedman anal-yses revealed that the overall pattern (Q-based union> Q-based intersection > Generic Union / Intersec-tion) was found to be significant for 13 out of the20 questions.
For four of the remaining seven ques-tions, Q-based union ranked first as well, while fortwo questions Q-based intersection was ranked asthe best answer.
For the remaining question, therewas no significant difference between the four fu-sion types.4 Conclusion and discussionIn this paper we have addressed two questions.
First:is Q-based fusion a better defined task than genericfusion?
Here, the answer seems to be ?yes?
: Q-based fusions are shorter, display less variety inlength, result in more identically fused sentences2Naturally, there can be no main effect of question, sincethere is no variance; the ranks 1-4 are fixed for each question.and have higher normalized Rouge scores, where thedifferences are larger for intersection than for union.Inspection of the fused sentences reveals that thereis simply more potential variation on the word level(do I select this word from one input sentence orfrom the other?)
for union fusion than for inter-section fusion.
Second: which kind of fusion (ifany) do users of a medical QA system prefer?
Herea consistent preference order was found, with rank1 = Q-based union, rank 2 = Q-based Intersection,rank 3/4 = Generic intersection / union.
Thus: par-ticipants clearly prefer Q-based fusions, and prefermore complete answers over shorter ones.In future research, we intend to collect new datawith different questions per sentence pair, to find outto what extent the question and its phrasing drivethe fusion process.
In addition, we will also let sen-tences from different domains be fused, based on thehypothesis that fusion strategies may differ acrossdomains.ReferencesRegina Barzilay and Kathleen McKeown.
2005.
Sen-tence Fusion for Multidocument News Summariza-tion.
Computational Linguistics, 31(3), 297-328.Hal Daume?
III and Daniel Marcu.
2004.
Generic Sen-tence Fusion is an Ill-Defined Summarization Task.Proceedings of the ACL Text Summarization BranchesOut Workshop, Barcelona, Spain.Chin-Yew Lin and Eduard Hovy.
2003.
Automatic evalu-ation of summaries using N-gram co-occurrence statis-tics.
Proceedings of NAACL ?03, Edmonton, Canada.Erwin Marsi and Emiel Krahmer.
2005.
Explorationsin Sentence Fusion.
Proceedings of the 10th Euro-pean Workshop on Natural Language Generation, Ab-erdeen, UK.196
