Tutorial Abstracts of ACL-08: HLT, page 1,Columbus, Ohio, USA, June 2008. c?2008 Association for Computational LinguisticsIntroduction to Computational AdvertisingEvgeniy Gabrilovich Vanja Josifovski Bo PangYahoo!
Research701 First AvenueSunnyvale, CA 94085, USA{gabr,vanjaj,bopang}@yahoo-inc.com1 IntroductionWeb advertising is the primary driving force behindmany Web activities, including Internet search aswell as publishing of online content by third-partyproviders.
Even though the notion of online ad-vertising barely existed a decade ago, the topic isso complex that it attracts attention of a variety ofestablished scientific disciplines, including compu-tational linguistics, computer science, economics,psychology, and sociology, to name but a few.
Con-sequently, a new discipline ?
Computational Ad-vertising ?
has emerged, which studies the processof advertising on the Internet from a variety of an-gles.
A successful advertising campaign should berelevant to the immediate user?s information need aswell as more generally to user?s background and per-sonalized interest profile, be economically worth-while to the advertiser and the intermediaries (e.g.,the search engine), as well as be aesthetically pleas-ant and not detrimental to user experience.2 Content OverviewIn this tutorial, we focus on one important aspect ofonline advertising that is relevant to the ACL andHLT communities, namely, contextual relevance.There are two main scenarios for online advertis-ing, as advertisers might request to display their adsfor a query submitted to a Web search engine, orfor a Web page that the user reads online.The for-mer scenario is called sponsored search, since adsare matched to the Web search results, and the lat-ter ?
content match, as ads are matched to a largeramount of content.
It is essential to emphasize thatin both cases the context of user actions is definedby a body of text, which could be quite short in thecase of sponsored search or fairly long in the caseof content match.
Consequently, the ad matchingproblem lends itself to many NLP methods, but alsoposes numerous challenges and open research prob-lems in text summarization, natural language gener-ation, named entity extraction, computer-human in-teraction, and others.At first approximation, the process of obtainingrelevant ads can be reduced to conventional infor-mation retrieval, where we construct a query thatdescribes the user?s context, and then execute thisquery against a large inverted index of ads.
We showhow to augment the standard information retrievalapproach using query expansion and text classifica-tion techniques.
First, we demonstrate how to em-ploy a relevance feedback assumption and use Websearch results produced by the query.
We also gobeyond the conventional bag of words indexing, andconstruct additional features by classifying both theinput context and the ad descriptions with respect toa large external taxonomy.
A third type of featuresis constructed from a lexicon of named entities ob-tained by analyzing the entire Web as a corpus.We present a unified approach to Web advertis-ing, which uses the same underlying infrastructureto handle both sponsored search and content matchscenarios.
The last part of the tutorial will be de-voted to recent research results as well as open prob-lems, such as automatically classifying cases whenno ads should be shown, handling geographic names(and more generally, location awareness), and con-text modeling for vertical portals.1
