Proceedings of the ACL-IJCNLP 2009 Conference Short Papers, pages 169?172,Suntec, Singapore, 4 August 2009. c?2009 ACL and AFNLPToward finer-grained sentiment identification in product reviewsthrough linguistic and ontological analysesHye-Jin MinComputer Science DepartmentKAIST, Daejeon, KOREAhjmin@nlp.kiast.ac.krJong C. ParkComputer Science DepartmentKAIST, Daejeon, KOREApark@nlp.kaist.ac.krAbstractWe propose categories of finer-grained polari-ty for a more effective aspect-based sentimentsummary, and describe linguistic and ontolog-ical clues that may affect such fine-grained po-larity.
We argue that relevance for satisfaction,contrastive weight clues, and certain adver-bials work to affect the polarity, as evidencedby the statistical analysis.1 IntroductionSentiment analysis have been widely conductedin several domains such as movie reviews, prod-uct reviews, news and blog reviews (Pang et al,2002; Turney, 2002).
The unit of the sentimentvaries from a document level to a sentence levelto a phrase-level, where a more fine-grained ap-proach has been receiving more attention for itsaccuracy.
Sentiment analysis on product reviewsidentifies or summarizes sentiment from reviewsby extracting relevant opinions about certainattributes of products such as their parts, or prop-erties (Hu and Liu, 2004; Popescu and Etzioni,2005).
Aspect-based sentiment analysis summa-rizes sentiments with diverse attributes, so thatcustomers may have to look more closely intoanalyzed sentiments (Titov and McDonald,2008).
However, there are additional problems.First, it is rather hard to choose the right levelof detail.
If concepts corresponding to attributesare too general, the level of detail may not be somuch finer than the ones on a document level.On the other hand, if concepts are too specific,there may be some attributes that are hardly men-tioned in the reviews, resulting in the datasparseness problem.
Second, there are caseswhen some crucial information is lost.
For ex-ample, suppose that two product attributes arementioned in a sentence with a coordinated orsubordinated structure.
In this case, the informa-tion about their relation may not be shown in thesummary if they are classified into different up-per-level attributes.
Consider (1).
(1) a.
??
???/??
?
?, ???
??????.
osun macciman, sayksangi nemwuetwuweyo.
?It fits me okay, but the color is toodark.?
(size: barely positive, color: negative)b.
????
?
??
?, ??
??
?????
??
????
???.
sayngkakpotacom yalpciman, aney patchye ipnun kenikkanalum kwaynchanhunke kathayo.
?It?s a bitthinner than I thought, but it is good enoughfor layering.?
(thickness: negative but accepta-ble, overall: positive)Example (1) shows sample customer reviewsabout clothes, each first in Korean, followed by aYale Romanized form, and an English translation.Note that the weight of the polarity in the senti-ment about size e.g.
in (1a) is overcome by theone about color.
However, if the overall senti-ment is computed by considering only the num-ber of semantically identical phrases in the re-views, it misses the big picture.In particular, when opinions regardingattributes are described with respect to expres-sions whose polarities are dependent on the spe-cific contexts such as the weather or user prefe-rence, an overestimated or underestimatedweight of the sentiment for each attribute may beassigned.
In our example, ??/yalpta/?thin?
hasan ambiguous polarity, i.e., either positive ornegative, whose real value depends on the ex-pected utility of the clothes.
In this case, the neg-ative polarity is the intended one, as shown in(1b).
In order to reflect this possibility, we needto adjust the weight of each polarity accordingly.In this paper, we propose to look into the kindof linguistic and ontological clues that may in-169fluence the use of polarities, or the relevance for?satisfaction of purchase?
inspired by Kano?stheory of quality element classification (Huisko-nen and Pirttila, 1998), the conceptual granulari-ties, and such syntactic and lexical clues as con-junction items and adverbs.
They may play sig-nificant roles in putting together the identifiedpolarity information, so as to assess correctlywhat the customers consider most important.
Weconducted several one-way Analysis of Variance(ANOVA) tests to identify the effects of eachclue on deriving categories of polarity and quan-tification method 2 to see whether these cluescan distinguish fine-grained polarities correctly.Section 2 introduces categories of polarity.Section 3 analyzes ontological and linguisticclues for identifying the proper category.
Section4 describes our method to extract such clues for astatistical analysis.
Section 5 discusses the resultsof the analysis and implications of the results.Section 6 concludes the paper.2 Categories of polarityWe suggest two more fine-grained categories ofpolarity, or ?barely positive?
(BP) and ?accepta-bly negative?
(AN), in addition to positive (P),negative (N) and neutral (NEU).
We distinguish?barely positive?
from normal positive and dis-tinguish ?acceptably negative?
from normal nega-tive in order to derive finer-grained sentiments.Wilson and colleagues (2006) identified thestrength of news articles in the MPQA corpus,where they separated intensity (low, medium,high) from categories (private states).
For thepurpose of identifying each attribute?s contribu-tion to the satisfaction after purchase, we believethat it is not necessary to have so many degreesof intensity.
We argue that the polarity of ?barelypositive?
may hold attributes that must be satis-fied and that ?acceptably negative?
may holdthose that are somewhat optional.3 Linguistic and Ontological AnalysesIn this section, we discuss linguistic and ontolog-ical clues that influence the process of identify-ing finer-grained polarity.
For the purpose of ex-position, we build hierarchical and aspect-basedreview structure as shown in Figure 1.
Majoraspects include Price, Delivery, Service, andProduct.
If we go down another level, Product isdivided into Quality and Comfortableness.
Indefining relevant attributes, we consider all thelower-level concepts of major aspects, whichcontain the characteristics of the product with adescription of the associated sentiment.Figure 1. Review structureRelevance for Satisfaction: We consider re-levant attributes that affect the quality and satis-faction of the products as one of the importantclues.
Quality elements classified by Kano asshown in Table 1 can be base indicators of rele-vant attributes for satisfaction in real review text.For example, while completeness of the productmay become crucial if the product has a defect, itis usually not the case that it would contributemuch to the overall satisfaction of the customer.Quality Elements  Example featuresMust-be Quality (MQ) Durability, Completeness1-dimension Quality (1DQ) Design, Color, MaterialAttractive Quality (AQ) Luxurious lookTable 1.
Kano's Quality ElementsConceptual Granularity: The concepts cor-responding to attributes have a different level ofdetail.
If the customer wants to comment onsome attributes in detail, she could use a fine-grained concept (e.g., the width of the thigh partof the pants) rather than a coarse-grained one(e.g., just the size of the pants).
To deal properlywith the changing granularity of such concepts,we constructed a domain specific semi-hierarchical network for clothes of the Clothing-Type structure, in addition to the Review struc-ture, by utilizing hierarchical category informa-tion in online shopping malls.
Figure 2 shows anexample for ?pants?.ClothingTypeBottomPantsSub_f Sub_pThigh CalfWaistHipLength+Material+Design:Line+Design:Pattern*Design:Style*ColorSizeDesign:Detail*Figure 2.
ClothingType structure for pantsSyntactic and Lexical Clues: Descriptions ofeach attribute in the reviews are often expressed170in a phrase or clause, so that conjunctions, orendings of a word with a conjunctive marker inKorean, play a significant role in connecting oneattribute to another.
They also convey a subtlemeaning of the sentiment about relations be-tween two or more connected attributes.
Weclassified such syntactic clues into 4 groups oflikeness (L), contrary (C), cause-effect (CE), andcontrary with contrastive markers (CC).Wilson and colleagues (2006) selected somesyntactic clues as features for intensity classifica-tion.
The selected features are shown to improvethe accuracy, but the set of clues may vary to thenature of the given corpus, so that some other-wise useful clues that reflect a particular focusedstructure may not be selected.
We argue thatsome syntactic clues such as the use of certainconjunctions can be identified manually to makeup for the limitation of feature selection.Adverbs modifying adjectives or verbs such astoo, and very also strengthen the polarity of agiven sentiment, so such clues work to differen-tiate normal positive or negative from ?barelypositive?
and ?acceptably negative?.
Table 2summarizes linguistic clues in the present analy-sis.Clues  ExamplesCONJ/ENDL -?
-ko ?and?C -??
-ciman ?but?,???
kulena ?however?CE -??
-ese ?so?, ??
?kulayse ?therefore?CC -?
???
-kin -ciman  ?It?s?, ?but?, ?though?ADV Strong ??
maywu ?very?,??
nemwu ?too?Mild ?
com ?a little?Table 2.
Syntactic and Lexical CluesAll these three types of clue that appear in thereview text may interact with one another.
Forexample, attributes with ?barely positive?
tend tobe described with a concept on a coarse level,and may belong to Must-be Quality (e,g.,  size in(1a)).
However, if such attributes are negative,customers may explain them with a very fine-grained concept (e.g., the width of thigh is okay,but the calf part is too wide; interaction betweenrelevance for satisfaction and conceptual granu-larity).
They may also use adverbs such as ?too?to emphasize such unexpected polarity informa-tion.
For emphasis, a contrastive structure can beused to indicate which attribute has a moreweight (e.g., ?A but B?
; interaction between syn-tactic clues and relevance for satisfaction).
Inaddition, an unfocused attribute A may be theattribute with ?acceptably negative?
if the polari-ty of the attribute B is positive.
We believe thatthe interaction between lexical and syntacticclues and relevance for satisfaction are the mostimportant and that this correlation informationmay be utilized with such fine-grained polarityas ?barely positive?
or ?acceptably negative?.4 Clue AcquisitionWe acquired data semi-automatically for eachclue from the extracted attributes and their de-scriptions from 500 product reviews of severaltypes of pants and annotated polarities manually.We obtained raw text reviews from one of themajor online shopping malls in Korea1 and per-formed a morphology analysis and POS-tagging.After POS-tagging, we collected all the nounphrases as candidates of attributes.
We regardedsome of them as attributes with the followingguidelines and filtered out the rest: 1) NP withfrequent adjectives 2) NP with frequent non-functional and intransitive verbs.
In the case ofsubject omission, we converted adjectives orverbs into their corresponding nouns, such as?thin?
into ?thickness?.
Hu and Liu (2004) identi-fied attributes of IT products based on frequentnoun phrases and Popescu and Etzioni (2005)utilized PMI values between product class (ho-tels and scanners) and some phrases includingproduct.
In our case, we used attributes that be-long only to the Product concept in the Reviewstructure, because most attributes we considerare sub-types or sub-attribute of Product.
Thetotal number of <attribute, polarity> pairs is 474.For relevance for satisfaction, we convertedextracted attributes into one of the types of Ka-no?s quality elements by the mapping table webuilt.
For conceptual granularity we regarded allthe attributes with a depth less than 2 as ?coarse?and those more than 2 as ?fine?.
Syntactic andlexical clues are identified from the context in-formation around extracted adjective or verbs bythe patterns based on POS information.5 Statistical Analysis and DiscussionWe conducted one-way Analysis of Variance(ANOVA) tests using relevance for satisfaction(ReV), conceptual granularity (Granul), and twolinguistic clues, ADV and CONJ/END, in orderto assess the effects of each clue on identifyingcategories of polarity.
The ANOVA suggests1 http://www.11st.co.kr171reliable effects of ReV (F(2,474) = 22.2; p= .000), ADV (F(2, 474) = 41.3; p = .000), andCONJ/END (F(3, 474) = 6.1; p = .000).
We alsoperformed post-hoc tests to test significant dif-ferences.
For ReV, there are significant differ-ences between ?MQ?
and ?1DQ?
(p=.000), andbetween ?MQ?
and ?AQ?
(p =.032).
AQ is relatedto ?positive?
and MQ to ?acceptably negative?
bythe result.
For ADV, there are significant differ-ences between all pairs (p <.05).
For CONJ/END,there are significant differences between ?like-ness?
and ?contrary?
(p = .015), and between?likeness?
and ?contrary with contrastive mark-ers?
(p = .025).
The ?contrary?
and ?contrarywith contrastive markers?
types of conjunctionsare related to ?acceptably negative?.We also conducted Quantification method 2 tosee if these clues can discriminate between BPand P and discriminate between AN and N. Theregression equation for distinguishing AN fromN is statistically significant at the 5% level(F(7,177) = 12,2; R2=0.335; Std.
error of the es-timate =  0.821; error rate for discriminant =0.21).
The coefficients for ?mild?
(t2=30.8), ?con-trary?
(t2=17.8) and ?contrary with contrastivemarkers?
(t2=14.1) are significant.The results lead us to conclude that we canidentify ?acceptably negative?
from the clothesreviews by extracting the particular lexical clue,adverbs of ?mild?
category and syntactic clue,such as conjunctions of ?contrary?, and ?contrarywith contrastive markers?, or contrastive weight.This clue may convey the customer?s argumenta-tive intention toward the product, or argumenta-tive orientation, for instance, A and B in ?A but B.C?
have different influence on the following dis-course C (Elhadad and McKeown, 1990).Although ?contrary with contrastive markers?plays an important role in identifying ?acceptablynegative?, it could also be used to identify anoth-er type of ?positive?
as shown in  example (2).
(2) ?
????
???
???.
???????
???.
com twukkeptanun sayng-kaki tupnita.
kulayto ttattushakin haneyyo.
?Itis a bit thick, but it keeps me warm.
?It is a positive feature, but neither fully positivenor barely positive.
It seems to be somewhere in-between.
The order of appearance in reviewsmay also affect the strength of polarity.
In addi-tion, particular cue phrases such as ~???
?/kesman ppayko/?except that ??
can alsoconvey ?acceptably negative?, too.In the future, we need to assess the importanceof each proposed clue relative to others and tothe existing ones.
We also need to investigate thenature of interactions among linguistic, ontologi-cal and relevance for satisfaction clues, whichmay influence the actual performance for identi-fying finer-grained polarity.6 Conclusion and Future WorkWe proposed further categories of polarity inorder to make aspect-based sentiment summarymore effective.
Our linguistic and ontologicalanalyses suggest that there are clues, such as ?re-levance for satisfaction?, ?contrastive weight?
andcertain adverbials, that work to affect polarity ina more subtle but crucial manner, as evidencedalso by the statistical analysis.
We plan to findout product attributes that contribute most tomodeling the interaction among the proposedclues in effective sentiment summarization.AcknowledgmentsThis work was funded in part by the IntelligentRobotics Development Program, a 21st CenturyFrontier R&D Program by the Ministry ofKnowledge Economy in Korea, and in part bythe 2nd stage of the Brain Korea 21 project.ReferencesAna-Maria Popescu and Oren Etzioni 2005.
Extract-ing Product Features and Opinions from Reviews.Proc.
HLT/EMNLP 2005, 339-346.Bo Pang, Lillian Lee, and Shivakumar Vaithyanathan.2002.
Thumbs up?
Sentiment classification usingmachine learning techniques.
Proc.
EMNLP.Ivan Titov and Ryan McDonald  2008.
A Joint Modelof Text and Aspect Ratings for Sentiment Summari-zation.
Proc.
ACL-08: HLT, 308-316.Janne Huiskonen and Timo Pirttila.
1998.
Sharpeninglogistic customer service strategy planning by ap-plying Kano?s quality element classification.
Inter-national Journal of Producion Economics, 56-57,253-260, Elsevier Science B.V.Michael Elhadad and Kathleen R. McKeown.
1990.Generating Connectives.
Proc.
COLING?97-101.Minqing Hu and Bing Liu.
2004.
Mining and summa-rizing customer reviews.
Proc.
ACM SIGKDD,168?177.
ACM Press.Peter D. Turney.
2002.
Thumbs up or thumbs down?Sentiment orientation applied to unsupervisedclassification of reviews.
Proc.
ACL, 417-424.Theresa Wilson, Janyce Wiebe, and Rebecca Hwa.2006.
Recognizing Strong and Weak OpinionClauses.
Computational Linguistics, 22 (2): 73-99.172
