Proceedings of the ACL-IJCNLP 2009 Conference Short Papers, pages 153?156,Suntec, Singapore, 4 August 2009. c?2009 ACL and AFNLPExtracting Comparative Sentences from Korean Text Documents Us-ing Comparative Lexical Patterns and Machine Learning TechniquesSeon YangDepartment of Computer Engineering,Dong-A University,840 Hadan 2-dong, Saha-gu,Busan 604-714 Koreasyang@donga.ac.krYoungjoong KoDepartment of Computer Engineering,Dong-A University,840 Hadan 2-dong, Saha-gu,Busan 604-714 Koreayjko@dau.ac.krAbstractThis paper proposes how to automaticallyidentify Korean comparative sentences fromtext documents.
This paper first investigatesmany comparative sentences referring to pre-vious studies and then defines a set of compar-ative keywords from them.
A sentence whichcontains one or more elements of the keywordset is called a comparative-sentence candidate.Finally, we use machine learning techniques toeliminate non-comparative sentences from thecandidates.
As a result, we achieved signifi-cant performance, an F1-score of 88.54%, inour experiments using various web documents.1 IntroductionComparing one entity with other entities is oneof the most convincing ways of evaluation (Jin-dal and Liu, 2006).
A comparative sentence for-mulates an ordering relation between two entitiesand that relation is very useful for many applica-tion areas.
One key area is for the customers.
Forexample, a customer can make a decision onhis/her final choice about a digital camera afterreading other customers' product reviews, e.g.,?Digital Camera X is much cheaper than Ythough it functions as good as Y!?
Another oneis for manufacturers.
All the manufacturers havean interest in the articles saying how their prod-ucts are compared with competitors?
ones.Comparative sentences often contain somecomparative keywords.
A sentence may expresssome comparison if it contains any comparativekeywords such as ???
([bo-da]: than)?, ???
([ga-jang]: most)?, ???
([da-reu]: different)?,??
([gat]: same)?.
But many sentences also ex-press comparison without those keywords.
Simi-larly, although some sentences contain somekeywords, they cannot be comparative sentences.By these reasons, extracting comparative sen-tences is not a simple or easy problem.
It needsmore complicated and challenging processesthan only searching out some keywords for ex-tracting comparative sentences.Jindal and Liu (2006) previously studied toidentify English comparative sentences.
But themechanism of Korean as an agglutinative lan-guage and that of English as an inflecting lan-guage have seriously different aspects.
One ofthe greatest differences related to our work is thatthere are Part-of-Speech (POS) Tags for compar-ative and superlative in English1, whereas, unfor-tunately, the POS tagger of Korean does not pro-vide any comparative and superlative tags be-cause the analysis of Korean comparative ismuch more difficult than that of English.
Themajor challenge of our work is therefore to iden-tify comparative sentences without comparativeand superlative POS Tags.We first survey previous studies about the Ko-rean comparative syntax and collect the corpusof Korean comparative sentences from the Web.As we refer to previous studies and investigatereal comparative sentences form the collectedcorpus, we can construct the set of comparativekeywords and extract comparative-sentence can-didates; the sentences which contain one or moreelement of the keyword set are called compara-tive-sentence candidates.
Then we use some ma-chine learning techniques to eliminate non-comparative sentences from those candidates.The final experimental results in 5-fold cross1 JJR: adjective and comparative, JJS: adjective and superla-tive, RBR: adverb and comparative, and RBS: adverb andsuperlative153validation show the overall precision of 88.68%and the overall recall of 88.40%.The remainder of the paper is organized as fol-lows.
Section 2 describes the related work.
Insection 3, we explain comparative keywords andcomparative-sentence candidates.
In section 4,we describe how to eliminate non-comparativesentences from the candidates extracted in pre-ceding section.
Section 5 presents the experimen-tal results.
Finally, we discuss conclusions andfuture work in section 62 Related WorkWe have not found any direct work on automati-cally extracting Korean comparative sentences.There is only one study by Jindal and Liu (2006)that is related to English.
They used comparativeand superlative POS tags and additional somekeywords to search English comparative sen-tences.
Then they used Class Sequential Rulesand Na?ve Bayesian learning method.
Their ex-periment showed a precision of 79% and recallof 81%.Our research is closely related to linguistics.Ha (1999) described Korean comparative con-structions with a linguistic view.
Oh (2003) dis-cussed the gradability of comparatives.
Jeong(2000) classified the adjective superlative by thetype of measures.Opinion mining is also related to our work.Many comparative sentences also contain thespeaker?s opinions and especially comparison isone of the most powerful tools for evaluation.We have surveyed many studies about opinionmining (Lee et al, 2008; Kim and Hovy, 2006;Wilson and Wiebe, 2003; Riloff and Wiebe,2003; Esuli and Sebastiani, 2006).Maximum Entropy Model is used in our tech-nique.
Berger et al (1996) described MaximumEntropy approach to National LanguageProcessing.
In our experiments, we used Zhang?sMaximum Entropy Model Toolkit (2004).
Na?veBayesian classifier is used to prove the perfor-mance of MEM (McCallum and Nigam (1998)).3 Extracting Comparative-sentenceCandidatesIn this section, we define comparative keywordsand extract comparative-sentence candidates byusing those keywords.3.1 Comparative keywordFirst of all, we classify comparative sentencesinto six types and then we extract single compar-ative keywords from each type as follows:Table 1.
The six types of comparative sentencesType Single-keyword Examples1 Equality ??
([gat]: same)?2 Similarity ????
([bi-seut-ha]: similar)?3 Difference ???
([da-reu]: different)?4 Greater orlesser???
([bo-da]: than)?5 Superlative ???
([ga-jang]: most)?6 Predicative No single-keywordsWe can easily find such keywords from the vari-ous sentences in first five types, while we cannotfind any single keyword in the sentences of type6.Ex1) ?X??
????
???????
?, Y ????????.?
([X-gum-eui won-jae-ryo-neuncho-san-vi-nil-su-ji-in-de, Y-gum-eun cheon-yeon-chi-kl-i-da]: Raw material of gum X is po-lyvinyl acetate, but that of Y is natural chicle.
)2And we can find many non-comparative sen-tences which contain some keywords.
The fol-lowing example (Ex2) shows non-comparativethough it contains ??
([gat]: It means 'same', butit sometimes means 'think?
)?.Ex2) ??
???
??
??
?
?
???.?
([Naesang-gak-en nae-il bi-ga ol geot gat-a-yo]: Ithink it will rain tomorrow.
)Thus all the sentences can be divided into fourcategories as follows:Table 2.
The four categories of the sentencesSingle-keyword Contain  Not containComparativeSentencesS1 S2Non-comparativeSentencesS3 S4 (unconcernedgroup)2 In fact, type 6 can be sorted as non-comparative from lin-guistic view.
But the speaker is probably saying that Y isbetter than X.
This is very important comparative data as anopinion.
Therefore, we also regard the sentences containingimplicit comparison as comparative sentences154Our final goal is to find an effective method toextract S1 and S2, but single-keyword searchingjust outputs S1 and S3.
In order to capture S2, weadded long-distance-words sequences to the setof single-keywords.
For example, we could ex-tract ?<?
[neun], ??
[in-de], ?
[eun], ??
[i-da]>?
as a long-distance-words sequence fromEx1-sentence.
It means that the sentence isformed as < S V but S V> in English (S: subjectphrase, V: verb phrase).
Thus we defined com-parative keyword in this paper as follows:Definition (comparative keyword): A compara-tive keyword is formed as a word or a phrase ora long-distance-words sequence.
When a com-parative keyword is contained in any sentence,the sentence is most likely to be a comparativesentence.
(We will use an abbreviation ?CK?.
)3.2 Comparative-sentence CandidatesWe finally set up a total of 177 CKs by humanefforts.
In the previous work, Jindal and Liu(2006) defined 83 keywords and key phrases in-cluding comparative or superlative POS tags inEnglish; they did not use any long-distance-words sequence.Keyword searching process can detect most ofcomparative sentences (S1, S2 and S3)3  fromoriginal text documents.
That is, the recall is highbut the precision is low.
We here defined a com-parative-sentence candidate as a sentence whichcontains one or more elements of the set of CKs.Now we need to eliminate the incorrect sen-tences (S3) from those captured sentences.
First,we divided the set of CKs into two subsets de-noted by CKL1 and CKL2 according to the pre-cision of each keyword; we used 90% of the pre-cision as a threshold value.
The average preci-sion of comparative-sentence candidates with aCKL1 keyword is 97.44% and they do not re-quire any additional process.
But that of compar-ative-sentence candidates with a CKL2 keywordis 29.34% and we decide to eliminate non-comparative sentences only from comparativesentence candidates with a CKL2 keyword.4 Eliminating Non-comparative Sen-tences from the Candidates3 As you can see in the experiment section, keyword search-ing captures 95.96% comparative sentences.To effectively eliminate non-comparative sen-tences from comparative sentence candidateswith a CKL2 keyword, we employ machinelearning techniques (MEM and Na?ve Bayes).For feature extraction from each comparative-sentence candidate, we use continuous wordssequence within the radius of 3 (the window sizeof 7) of each keyword in the sentence; we expe-rimented with radius options of 2, 3, and 4 andwe achieved the best performance in the radiusof 3.
After determining the radius, we replaceeach word with its POS tag; in order to reflectvarious expressions of each sentence, POS tagsare more proper than lexical information of ac-tual words.
However, since CKs play the mostimportant role to discriminate comparative sen-tences, they are represented as a combination oftheir actual keyword and POS tag.
Thus our fea-ture is formed as ?X ?
y?.
(?X?
means a se-quence and ?y?
means a class; y1 denotes com-parative and y2 denotes non-comparative).
Forinstance,  ?<pv etm nbn ?/pa ep ef sf >4?
y2?
isone of the features from the sentence of Ex2 insection 3.1.5 Experimental ResultsThree trained human annotators compiled a cor-pus of 277 online documents from various do-mains.
They discussed their disagreements andthey finally annotated 7,384 sentences.
Table 3shows the number of comparative sentences andnon-comparative sentences in our corpus.Table 3.
The numbers of annotated sentencesTotal Comparative Non-comparative7,384 2,383 (32%) 5,001 (68%)Before evaluating our proposed method, weconducted some experiments by machine learn-ing techniques with all the unigrams of total ac-tual words as baseline systems; they do not useany CKs.
The precision, recall and F1-score ofthe baseline systems are shown at Table 4.Table 4.
The results of baseline systems (%)BaselineSystemPrecision Recall F1-scoreNB 35.98 91.62 51.66MEM 78.17 63.34 69.94The final overall results using the 5-fold crossvalidation are shown in Table 5 and Figure 1.4 The labels such as ?pv?, ?etm?, ?nbn?, etc.
are Korean POSTags155Table 5.
The results of our proposed method (%)Method Preci-sionRecall F1-scoreCKs only 68.39 95.96 79.87CKs + NB 85.42 88.59 86.67CKs + MEM 88.68 88.40 88.54Fig.
1 The results of our proposed method (%)As shown in Table 5 and Figure 1, both of MEMand NB is shown good performance but the F1-score of MEM is little higher than that of NB.
Byapplying machine learning technique to our me-thod, we can achieve high precision while wecan preserve high recall.6 Conclusions and Future WorkIn this paper, we have presented how to extractcomparative sentences from Korean text docu-ments by keyword searching process and ma-chine learning techniques.
Our experimental re-sults showed that our proposed method can beeffectively used to identify comparative sen-tences.
Since the research of comparison miningis currently in the beginning step in the world,our proposed techniques can contribute much totext mining and opinion mining research.In our future work, we plan to classify com-parative types and to extract comparative rela-tions from identified comparative sentences.AcknowledgementThis paper was supported by the Korean Re-search Foundation Grant funded by the KoreanGovernment (KRF-2008-331-D00553)ReferencesAdam L. Berger et al 1996.
A Maximum EntropyApproach to Natural Language Processing.
Com-putational Linguistics, 22(1):39-71.Andrea Esuli and Fabrizio Sebastiani.
2006.
Deter-mining Term Subjectivity and Term Orientation forOpinion Mining.
European Chapter of the Associa-tion for Computational Linguistics, 193-200.Andrew McCallum and Kamal Nigam.
1998.
AComparison of Event Models for Na?ve Bayes TextClassification.
Association for Advancement of Ar-tificial Intelligence, 41-48.Dong-joo Lee et al 2008.
Opinion Mining of Cus-tomer Feedback Data on the Web.
InternationalConference on Ubiquitous Information Manage-ment and Community, 247-252.Ellen Riloff and Janyce Wiebe.
2003.
Learning Ex-traction Patterns for Subjective Expressions.
Em-pirical Methods in Natural Language Processing.Gil-jong Ha.
1999.
Korean Modern Comparative Syn-tax, Pijbook Press, Seoul, Korea.Gil-jong Ha.
1999.
Research on Korean EqualityComparative Syntax, Association for Korean Lin-guistics, 5:229-265.In-su Jeong.
2000.
Research on Korean AdjectiveSuperlative Comparative Syntax.
Korean Han-min-jok Eo-mun-hak, 36:61-86.Kyeong-sook Oh.
2004.
The Difference between?Man-kum?
Comparative and ?Cheo-rum?
Compar-ative.
Society of Korean Semantics, 14:197-221.Nitin Jindal and Bing Liu.
2006.
Identifying Com-parative Sentences in Text Documents, Associationfor Computing Machinery/Special Interest Groupon Information Retrieval, 244-251.Nitin Jindal and Bing Liu.
2006.
Mining ComparativeSentences and Relations, Association for Ad-vancement of Artificial Intelligence, 1331-1336.Soomin Kim and Eduard Hovy.
2006.
Automatic De-tection of Opinion Bearing Words and Sentences.Computational Linguistics/Association for Compu-tational Linguistics.Theresa Wilson and Janyce Wiebe.
2003.
AnnotatingOpinions in the World Press.
Special InterestGroup in Discourse and Dialoque/Association forComputational Linguistics.Zhang Le.
2004.
Maximum Entropy Modeling Toolkitfor Python and C++.
http://homepages.inf.ed.ac.uk/s0450736/maxent_toolkit.html.156
