Proceedings of the ACL-IJCNLP 2009 Software Demonstrations, pages 5?8,Suntec, Singapore, 3 August 2009.c?2009 ACL and AFNLPLX-Center: a center of online linguistic servicesAnt?onio Branco, Francisco Costa, Eduardo Ferreira, Pedro Martins,Filipe Nunes, Jo?ao Silva and Sara SilveiraUniversity of LisbonDepartment of Informatics{antonio.branco, fcosta, eferreira, pedro.martins,fnunes, jsilva, sara.silveira}@di.fc.ul.ptAbstractThis is a paper supporting the demonstra-tion of the LX-Center at ACL-IJCNLP-09.LX-Center is a web center of online lin-guistic services aimed at both demonstrat-ing a range of language technology toolsand at fostering the education, researchand development in natural language sci-ence and technology.1 IntroductionThis paper is aimed at supporting the demonstra-tion of a web center of online linguistic services.These services demonstrate language technologytools for the Portuguese language and are madeavailable to foster the education, research and de-velopment in natural language science and tech-nology.This paper adheres to the common format de-fined for demo proposals: the next Section 2presents an extended abstract of the technical con-tent to be demonstrated; Section 3 provides ascript outline of the demo presentation; and thelast Section 4 describes the hardware and internetrequirements expected to be provided by the localorganizer.2 Extended abstractThe LX-Center is a web center of online linguis-tic services for the Portuguese language located athttp://lxcenter.di.fc.ul.pt.
This isa freely available center targeted at human users.
Ithas a counterpart in terms of a webservice for soft-ware agents, the LXService, presented elsewhere(Branco et al, 2008).2.1 LX-CenterThe LX-Center encompasses linguistic servicesthat are being developed, in all or part, and main-tained at the University of Lisbon, Department ofInformatics, by the NLX-Natural Language andSpeech Group.
At present, it makes available thefollowing functionalities:?
Sentence splitting?
Tokenization?
Nominal lemmatization?
Nominal morphological analysis?
Nominal inflection?
Verbal lemmatization?
Verbal morphological analysis?
Verbal conjugation?
POS-tagging?
Named entity recognition?
Annotated corpus concordancing?
Aligned wordnet browsingThese functionalities are provided by one ormore of the seven online services that integratethe LX-Center.
For instance, the LX-Suite serviceaccepts raw text and returns it sentence splitted,tokenized, POS tagged, lemmatized and morpho-logically analyzed (for both verbs and nominals).Some other services, in turn, may support only oneof the functionalities above.
For instance, the LX-NER service ensures only named entity recogni-tion.These are the services offered by the LX-Center:?
LX-Conjugator?
LX-Lemmatizer?
LX-Inflector?
LX-Suite?
LX-NER?
CINTIL concordancer?
MWN.PT browser5The access to each one of these services is ob-tained by clicking on the corresponding button onthe left menu of the LX-Center front page.Each of the seven services integrating the LX-Center will be briefly presented in a differentsubsection below.
Fully fledged descriptions areavailable at the corresponding web pages and inthe white papers possibly referred to there.2.2 LX-ConjugatorThe LX-Conjugator is an online service for fully-fledged conjugation of Portuguese verbs.
It takesan infinitive verb form and delivers all the corre-sponding conjugated forms.
This service is sup-ported by a tool based on general string replace-ment rules for word endings supplemented by a listof overriding exceptions.
It handles both knownverbs and unknown verbs, thus conjugating neolo-gisms (with orthographic infinitival suffix).The Portuguese verbal inflection system is amost complex part of the Portuguese morphology,and of the Portuguese language, given the highnumber of conjugated forms for each verb (ca.
70forms in non pronominal conjugation), the num-ber of productive inflection rules involved and thenumber of non regular forms and exceptions tosuch rules.This complexity is further increased when theso-called pronominal conjugation is taken into ac-count.
The Portuguese language has verbal clitics,which according to some authors are to be ana-lyzed as integrating the inflectional suffix system:the forms of the clitics may depend on the Number(Singular vs. Plural), the Person (First, Second,Third or Second courtesy), the Gender (Masculinevs.
Feminine), the grammatical function whichthey are in correspondence with (Subject, Directobject or Indirect object), and the anaphoric prop-erties (Pronominal vs. Reflexive); up to three cli-tics (e.g.
deu-se-lho / gave-One-ToHim-It) may beassociated with a verb form; clitics may occur inso called enclisis, i.e.
as a final part of the verbform (e.g.
deu-o / gave-It), or in mesoclisis, i.e.as a medial part of the verb form (e.g.
d?a-lo-ia/ give-it-Condicional) ?
when the verb form oc-curs in certain syntactic or semantic contexts (e.gin the scope of negation), the clitics appear in pro-clisis, i.e.
before the verb form (ex.
: n?ao o deu /NOT it gave); clitics follow specific rules for theirconcatenation.With LX-Conjugator, pronominal conjugationcan be fully parameterizable and is thus exhaus-tively handled.
Additionally, LX-Conjugator ex-haustively handles a set of inflection cases whichtend not to be supported together in verbal conju-gators: Compound tenses; Double forms for pastparticiples (regular and irregular); Past participleforms inflected for number and gender (with tran-sitive and unaccusative verbs); Negative impera-tive forms; Courtesy forms for second person.This service handles also the very few caseswhere there may be different forms in differentvariants: when a given verb has different ortho-graphic representations for some of its inflectedforms (e.g.
arguir in European vs. arg?uir inAmerican Portuguese), all such representationswill be displayed.2.3 LX-LemmatizerThe LX-Lemmatizer is an online service for fully-fledged lemmatization and morphological analysisof Portuguese verbs.
It takes a verb form and de-livers all the possible corresponding lemmata (in-finitive forms) together with inflectional featurevalues.This service is supported by a tool based ongeneral string replacement rules for word endingswhose outcome is validated by the reverse proce-dure of conjugation of the output and matchingwith the original input.
These rules are supple-mented by a list of overriding exceptions.
It thushandles an open set of verb forms provided theseinput forms bear an admissible verbal inflectionending.
Hence, this service processes both lexi-cally known and unknown verbs, thus coping withneologisms.LX-Lemmatizer handles the same range offorms handled and generated by the LX-Conjugator.
As for pronominal conjugation forms,the outcome displays the clitic detached fromthe lemma.
The LX-Lemmatizer and the LX-Conjugator can be used in ?roll-over?
mode.
Oncethe outcome of say the LX-Conjugator on a giveninput lemma is displayed, the user can click overany one of the verbal forms in that conjugation ta-ble.
This activates the LX-Lemmatizer on that in-put verb form, and then its possible lemmas, to-gether with corresponding inflection feature val-ues, are displayed.
Now, any of these lemmas canalso be clicked on, which will activate back theLX-Conjugator and will make the correspondingconjugation table to be displayed.62.4 LX-InflectorThe LX-Inflector is an online service for thelemmatization and inflection of nouns and adjec-tives of Portuguese.
This service is also based ona tool that relies on general rules for ending stringreplacement, supplemented by a list of overrid-ing exceptions.
Hence, it handles both lexicallyknown and unknown forms, thus handling pos-sible neologisms (with orthographic suffixes fornominal inflection).As input, this service takes a Portuguese nomi-nal form ?
a form of a noun or an adjective, in-cluding adjectival forms of past participles ?, to-gether with a bundle of inflectional feature values?
values of inflectional features of Gender andNumber intended for the output.As output, it returns: inflectional features ?the input form is echoed with the correspond-ing values for its inflectional features of Genderand Number, that resulted from its morphologicalanalysis; lemmata ?
the lemmata (singular andmasculine forms when available) possibly corre-sponding to the input form; inflected forms ?
theinflected forms (when available) of each lemma inaccordance with the values for inflectional featuresentered.
LX-Inflector processes both simple, pre-fixed or non prefixed, and compound forms.2.5 LX-SuiteThe LX-Suite is an online service for the shal-low processing of Portuguese.
It accepts rawtext and returns it sentence splitted, tokenized,POS tagged, lemmatized and morphologically an-alyzed.This service is based on a pipeline of a num-ber of tools, including those supporting the ser-vices described above.
Those tools, for lemmati-zation and morphological analysis, are inserted atthe end of the pipeline and are preceded by threeother tools: a sentence splitter, a tokenizer and aPOS tagger.The sentence splitter marks sentence and para-graph boundaries and unwraps sentences split overdifferent lines.
An f-score of 99.94% was obtainedwhen testing it on a 12,000 sentence corpus.The tokenizer segments the text into lexicallyrelevant tokens, using whitespace as the separator;expands contractions; marks spacing around punc-tuation or symbols; detaches clitic pronouns fromthe verb; and handles ambiguous strings (con-tracted vs. non contracted).
This tool achieves anf-score of 99.72%.The POS tagger assigns a single morpho-syntactic tag to every token.
This tagger is basedon Hidden Markov Models, and was developedwith the TnT software (Brants, 2000).
It scoresan accuracy of 96.87%.2.6 LX-NERThe LX-NER is an online service for the recog-nition of expressions for named entities in Por-tuguese.
It takes a segment of Portuguese text andidentifies, circumscribes and classifies the expres-sions for named entities it contains.
Each namedentity receives a standard representation.This service handles two types of expressions,and their subtypes.
(i) Number-based expressions:Numbers ?
arabic, decimal, non-compliant, ro-man, cardinal, fraction, magnitude classes; Mea-sures ?
currency, time, scientific units; Time ?date, time periods, time of the day; Addresses ?global section, local section, zip code; (ii) Name-base expressions: Persons; Organizations; Loca-tions; Events; Works; Miscellaneous.The number-based component is built uponhandcrafted regular expressions.
It was devel-oped and evaluated against a manually constructedtest-suite including over 300 examples.
It scored85.19% precision and 85.91% recall.
The name-based component is built upon HMMs with thehelp of TnT (Brants, 2000).
It was trained overa manually annotated corpus of approximately208,000 words, and evaluated against an unseenportion with approximately 52,000 words.
Itscored 86.53% precision and 84.94% recall.2.7 CINTIL ConcordancerThe CINTIL-Concordancer is an online concor-dancing service supporting the research usage ofthe CINTIL Corpus.The CINTIL Corpus is a linguistically inter-preted corpus of Portuguese.
It is composed of 1Million annotated tokens, each one of which ver-ified by human expert annotators.
The annotationcomprises information on part-of-speech, lemmaand inflection of open classes, multi-word expres-sions pertaining to the class of adverbs and to theclosed POS classes, and multi-word proper names(for named entity recognition).This concordancer permits to search for occur-rences of strings in the corpus and returns themtogether with their window of left and right con-text.
It is possible to search for orthographic forms7or through linguistic information encoded in theirtags.
This service offers several possibilities withrespect to the format for displaying the outcomeof a given search (e.g.
number of occurrences perpage, size of the context window, sorting the re-sults in a given page, hiding the tags, etc.
)This service is supported by Poliqarp, a freesuite of utilities for large corpora processing(Janus and Przepi?orkowski, 2006).2.8 MWN.PT BrowserThe MWN.PT Browser is an online service tobrowse the MultiWordnet of Portuguese.The MWN.PT is a lexical semantic network forthe Portuguese language, shaped under the on-tological model of wordnets, developed by ourgroup.
It spans over 17,200 manually validatedconcepts/synsets, linked under the semantic rela-tions of hyponymy and hypernymy.
These con-cepts are made of over 21,000 word senses/wordforms and 16,000 lemmas from both Europeanand American variants of Portuguese.
They arealigned with the translationally equivalent con-cepts of the English Princeton WordNet and, tran-sitively, of the MultiWordNets of Italian, Spanish,Hebrew, Romanian and Latin.It includes the subontologies under the conceptsof Person, Organization, Event, Location, and Artworks, which are covered by the top ontologymade of the Portuguese equivalents to all conceptsin the 4 top layers of the Princeton wordnet andto the 98 Base Concepts suggested by the GlobalWordnet Association, and the 164 Core Base Con-cepts indicated by the EuroWordNet project.This browsing service offers an access point tothe MultiWordnet, browser1tailored to the Por-tuguese wordnet.
It offers also the possibilityto navigate the Portuguese wordnet diagrammat-ically by resorting to Visuwords.23 OutlineThis is an outline of the script to be followed.Step 1 : Presentation of the LX-Center.Narrative: The text in Section 2.1 above.Action: Displaying the page athttp://lxcenter.di.fc.ul.pt.Step 2 : Presentation of LX-Conjugator.Narrative: The text in Section 2.2 above.Action: Running an example by selecting1http://multiwordnet.itc.it/2http://www.visuwords.com/?see an example?
option at the pagehttp://lxconjugator.di.fc.ul.pt.Step 3 : Presentation of LX-Lemmatizer.Narrative: The text in Section 2.3 above.Action: Running an example by selecting?see an example?
option at the pagehttp://lxlemmatizer.di.fc.ul.pt;clicking on one of the inflected forms in theconjugation table generated; clicking on oneof the lemmas returned.Step 4 : Presentation of LX-Inflector.Narrative: The text in Section 2.4 above.Action: Running an example by selecting?see an example?
option at the pagehttp://lxinflector.di.fc.ul.pt.Step 5 : Presentation of LX-Suite.Narrative: The text in Section 2.5 above.Action: Running an example by selecting?see an example?
option at the pagehttp://lxsuite.di.fc.ul.pt.Step 6 : Presentation of LX-NER.Narrative: The text in Section 2.6 above.Action: Running an example by copying oneof the examples in the pagehttp://lxner.di.fc..ul.ptand hitting the ?Recognize?
button.Step 7 : Presentation of CINTIL Concordancer.Narrative: The text in Section 2.7 above.Action: Running an example by selecting?see an example?
option at the pagehttp://cintil.ul.pt.Step 8 : Presentation of MWN.PT Browser.Narrative: The text in Section 2.8 above.Action: Running an example by selecting?see an example?
option at the pagehttp://mwnpt.di.fc.ul.pt/.4 RequirementsThis demonstration requires a computer (a laptopwe will bring along) and an Internet connection.ReferencesA.
Branco, F. Costa, P. Martins, F. Nunes, J. Silva andS.
Silveira.
2008.
?LXService: Web Services ofLanguage Technology for Portuguese?.
Proceed-ings of LREC2008.
ELRA, Paris.D.
Janus and A. Przepi?orkowski.
2006.
?POLIQARP1.0: Some technical aspects of a linguistic searchengine for large corpora?.
Proceedings PALC 2005.T.
Brants.
2000.
?TnT-A Statistical Part-of-speechTagger?.
Proceedings ANLP2000.8
