Proceedings of the ACL-IJCNLP 2009 Conference Short Papers, pages 21?24,Suntec, Singapore, 4 August 2009. c?2009 ACL and AFNLPHomophones and Tonal Patterns in English-Chinese TransliterationOi Yee KwongDepartment of Chinese, Translation and LinguisticsCity University of Hong KongTat Chee Avenue, Kowloon, Hong KongOlivia.Kwong@cityu.edu.hkAbstractThe abundance of homophones in Chinesesignificantly increases the number of similarlyacceptable candidates in English-to-Chinesetransliteration (E2C).
The dialectal factor alsoleads to different transliteration practice.
Wecompare E2C between Mandarin Chinese andCantonese, and report work in progress fordealing with homophones and tonal patternsdespite potential skewed distributions of indi-vidual Chinese characters in the training data.1 IntroductionThis paper addresses the problem of automaticEnglish-Chinese forward transliteration (referredto as E2C hereafter).There are only a few hundred Chinese charac-ters commonly used in names, but their combina-tion is relatively free.
Such flexibility, however,is not entirely ungoverned.
For instance, whilethe Brazilian striker Ronaldo is rendered as???
long5-naa4-dou6 in Cantonese, other pho-netically similar candidates like ???
long5-naa4-dou6 or ???
long4-naa4-dou11 are leastlikely.
Beyond linguistic and phonetic properties,many other social and cognitive factors such asdialect, gender, domain, meaning, and perception,are simultaneously influencing the naming proc-ess and superimposing on the surface graphemiccorrespondence.The abundance of homophones in Chinese fur-ther complicates the problem.
Past studies onphoneme-based E2C have reported their adverseeffects (e.g.
Virga and Khudanpur, 2003).
Directorthographic mapping (e.g.
Li et al, 2004), mak-ing use of individual Chinese graphemes, tends1 Mandarin names are transcribed in Hanyu Pinyinand Cantonese names are transcribed in Jyutping pub-lished by the Linguistic Society of Hong Kong.to overcome the problem and model the charac-ter choice directly.
Meanwhile, Chinese is atypical tonal language and the tone informationcan help distinguish certain homophones.
Pho-neme mapping studies seldom make use of toneinformation.
Transliteration is also an openproblem, as new names come up everyday andthere is no absolute or one-to-one transliteratedversion for any name.
Although direct ortho-graphic mapping has implicitly or partially mod-elled the tone information via individual charac-ters, the model nevertheless heavily depends onthe availability of training data and could beskewed by the distribution of a certain homo-phone and thus precludes an acceptable translit-eration alternative.
We therefore propose tomodel the sound and tone together in E2C.
Inthis way we attempt to deal with homophonesmore reasonably especially when the trainingdata is limited.
In this paper we report somework in progress and compare E2C in Cantoneseand Mandarin Chinese.Related work will be briefly reviewed in Sec-tion 2.
Some characteristics of E2C will be dis-cussed in Section 3.
Work in progress will bereported in Section 4, followed by a conclusionwith future work in Section 5.2 Related WorkThere are basically two categories of work onmachine transliteration.
First, various alignmentmodels are used for acquiring transliterationlexicons from parallel corpora and other re-sources (e.g.
Kuo and Li, 2008).
Second, statis-tical models are built for transliteration.
Thesemodels could be phoneme-based (e.g.
Knight andGraehl, 1998), grapheme-based (e.g.
Li et al,2004), hybrid (Oh and Choi, 2005), or based onphonetic (e.g.
Tao et al, 2006) and semantic (e.g.Li et al, 2007) features.Li et al (2004) used a Joint Source-ChannelModel under the direct orthographic mapping21(DOM) framework, skipping the middle phone-mic representation in conventional phoneme-based methods, and modelling the segmentationand alignment preferences by means of contex-tual n-grams of the transliteration units.
Al-though DOM has implicitly modelled the tonechoice, since a specific character has a specifictone, it nevertheless heavily relies on the avail-ability of training data.
If there happens to be askewed distribution of a certain Chinese charac-ter, the model might preclude other acceptabletransliteration alternatives.
In view of the abun-dance of homophones in Chinese, and thatsound-tone combination is important in names(i.e., names which sound ?nice?
are preferred tothose which sound ?monotonous?
), we proposeto model sound-tone combinations in translitera-tion more explicitly, using pinyin transcriptionsto bridge the graphemic representation betweenEnglish and Chinese.
In addition, we also studythe dialectal differences between transliterationin Mandarin Chinese and Cantonese, which isseldom addressed in past studies.3 Some E2C Properties3.1 Dialectal DifferencesEnglish and Chinese have very different phono-logical properties.
A well cited example is a syl-lable initial /d/ may surface as in Baghdad ???
ba1-ge2-da2, but the syllable final /d/ is notrepresented.
This is true for Mandarin Chinese,but since ending stops like ?p, ?t and ?k are al-lowed in Cantonese syllables, the syllable final/d/ in Baghdad is already captured in the last syl-lable of???
baa1-gaak3-daat6 in Cantonese.Such phonological difference between Manda-rin Chinese and Cantonese might also accountfor the observation that Cantonese translitera-tions often do not introduce extra syllables forcertain consonant segments in the middle of anEnglish name, as in Dickson, transliterated as???
di2-ke4-xun4 in Mandarin Chinese and ??
dik6-san4 in Cantonese.3.2 Ambiguities from HomophonesThe homophone problem is notorious in Chinese.As far as personal names are concerned, the?correctness?
of transliteration is not clear-cut atall.
For example, to transliterate the name Hilaryinto Chinese, based on Cantonese pronunciations,the following are possibilities amongst manyothers: (a) ???
hei1-laai1-lei6, (b) ??
?hei1-laai1-lei6, and (c) ???
hei1-laai1-lei5.The homophonous third character gives rise tomultiple alternative transliterations in this exam-ple, where orthographically ?
lei6, ?
lei6 and?
lei5 are observed for ?ry?
in transliterationdata.
One cannot really say any of the combina-tions is ?right?
or ?wrong?, but perhaps only?better?
or ?worse?.
Such judgement is morecognitive than linguistic in nature, and appar-ently the tonal patterns play an important role inthis regard.
Hence naming is more of an art thana science, and automatic transliteration shouldavoid over-reliance on the training data and thusmissing unlikely but good candidates.4 Work in Progress4.1 DatasetsA common set of 1,423 source English namesand their transliterations2  in Mandarin Chinese(as used by media in Mainland China) and Can-tonese (as used by media in Hong Kong) werecollected over the Internet.
The names aremostly from soccer, entertainment, and politics.The data size is admittedly small compared toother existing transliteration datasets, but as apreliminary study, we aim at comparing thetransliteration practice between Mandarin speak-ers and Cantonese speakers in a more objectiveway based on a common set of English names.The transliteration pairs were manually aligned,and the pronunciations for the Chinese characterswere automatically looked up.4.2 Preliminary Quantitative AnalysisCantonese MandarinUnique name pairs 1,531 1,543Total English segments 4,186 4,667Unique English segments 969 727Unique grapheme pairs 1,618 1,193Unique seg-sound pairs 1,574 1,141Table 1.
Quantitative Aspects of the DataAs shown in Table 1, the average segment-nameratios (2.73 for Cantonese and 3.02 for Mandarin)suggest that Mandarin transliterations often usemore syllables for a name.
The much smallernumber of unique English segments for Manda-rin and the difference in token-type ratio ofgrapheme pairs (3.91 for Mandarin and 2.59 forCantonese) further suggest that names are moreconsistently segmented and transliterated inMandarin.2 Some names have more than one transliteration.224.2.1 Graphemic CorrespondenceAssume grapheme pair mappings are in the form<ek, {ck1,ck2,?,ckn}>, where ek stands for the kthunique English segment from the data, and{ck1,ck2,?,ckn} for the set of n unique Chinesesegments observed for it.
It was found that nvaries from 1 to 10 for Mandarin, with 34.9% ofthe distinct English segments having multiplegrapheme mappings, as shown in Table 2.
ForCantonese, n varies from 1 to 13, with 31.5% ofthe distinct English segments having multiplegrapheme mappings.
The proportion of multiplemappings is similar for Mandarin and Cantonese,but the latter has a higher percentage of Englishsegments with 5 or more Chinese renditions.Thus Mandarin transliterations are relativelymore ?standardised?, whereas Cantonese trans-literations are graphemically more ambiguous.n Cantonese Mandarin>=5 5.3% 3.3%4 4.0% 4.4%3 6.2% 7.2%2 16.0% 20.0%1 68.5% 65.1%Example <le, {?, ?, ?, ?,?, ?, ?, ?, ?,?, ?, ?, ?
}><le, {?, ?, ?,  ?,?, ?, ?, ?, ?,?
}>Table 2.
Graphemic Ambiguity of the Data4.2.2 Homophone Ambiguity (Sound Only)Table 3 shows the situation with homophones(ignoring tones).
For example, all five characters?????
correspond to the Jyutping lei.
De-spite the tone difference, they are consideredhomophones in this section.n Cantonese Mandarin>=5 3.3% 1.9%4 4.0% 2.5%3 5.8% 5.7%2 16.3% 20.7%1 70.5% 69.2%Example <le, {ji, laak, lei,leoi, lik, lit, loi, lou,nei}><le, {er, lai, le, lei,li, lie, lu}>Table 3.
Homophone Ambiguity (Ignoring Tone)Assume grapheme-sound pair mappings are inthe form <ek, {sk1,sk2,?,skn}>, where ek stands forthe kth unique English segment, and{sk1,sk2,?,skn} for the set of n unique pronuncia-tions (regardless of tone).
For Mandarin, n var-ies from 1 to 7, with 30.8% of the distinct Eng-lish segments having multiple sound mappings.For Cantonese, n varies from 1 to 9, with 29.5%of the distinct English segments having multiplesound mappings.
Comparing with Table 2 above,the downward shift of the percentages suggeststhat much of the graphemic ambiguity is a resultof the use of homophones, instead of a set ofcharacters with very different pronunciations.4.2.3 Homophone Ambiguity (Sound-Tone)Table 4 shows the situation of homophones withboth sound and tone taken into account.
For ex-ample, the characters ??
all correspond to lei6in Cantonese, while ???
all correspond tolei5, and they are thus treated as two groups.Assume grapheme-sound/tone pair mappingsare in the form <ek, {stk1,stk2,?,stkn}>, where ekstands for the kth unique English segment, and{stk1,stk2,?,stkn} for the set of n unique pronun-ciations (sound-tone combination).
For Manda-rin, n varies from 1 to 8, with 33.5% of the dis-tinct English segments corresponding to multipleChinese homophones.
For Cantonese, n variesfrom 1 to 10, with 30.8% of the distinct Englishsegments having multiple Chinese homophones.n Cantonese Mandarin>=5 4.1% 2.8%4 4.8% 3.3%3 6.1% 6.8%2 15.8% 20.7%1 69.2% 66.5%Example <le, {ji5, laak6, lei5,lei6, leoi4, lik6, lit6,loi4, lou6, nei4}><le, {er3, lai2, le4,lei2, li3, li4, lie4,lu4}Table 4.
Homophone Ambiguity (Sound-Tone)The figures in Table 4 are somewhere betweenthose in Table 2 and Table 3, suggesting that aconsiderable part of homophones used in thetransliterations could be distinguished by tones.This supports our proposal of modelling tonalcombination explicitly in E2C.4.3 Method and ExperimentThe Joint Source-Channel Model in Li et al(2004) was adopted in this study.
However, in-stead of direct orthographic mapping, we modelthe mapping between an English segment and thepronunciation in Chinese.
Such a model is ex-pected to have a more compact parameter spaceas individual Chinese characters for a certainEnglish segment are condensed into homophonesdefined by a finite set of sounds and tones.
Themodel could save on computational effort, and isless affected by any bias or sparseness of the data.We refer to this approach as SoTo hereafter.Hence our approach with a bigram model is asfollows:23?=??
><><=><><><==KkkkkkkkkkstestePstestestePstststeeePSTEP11122112121),|,(),,...,,,,(),...,,,,...,,(),(where E refers to the English source name andST refers to the sound/tone sequence of the trans-literation, while ek and stk refer to kth segmentand its Chinese sound respectively.
Homo-phones in Chinese are thus captured as a class inthe phonetic transcription.
For example, the ex-pected Cantonese transliteration for Osborne is????
ou3-si1-bong1-nei4.
Not only is itranked first using this method, its homophonousvariant ????
is within the top 5, thus bene-fitting from the grouping of the homophones,despite the relatively low frequency of <s,?>.This would be particularly useful for translitera-tion extraction and information retrieval.Unlike pure phonemic modelling, the tonalfactor is modelled in the pronunciation transcrip-tion.
We do not go for phonemic representationfrom the source name as the transliteration offoreign names into Chinese is often based on thesurface orthographic forms, e.g.
the silent h inBeckham is pronounced to give ??
han4-mu3in Mandarin and ?
haam4 in Cantonese.Five sets of 50 test names were randomly ex-tracted from the 1.4K names mentioned abovefor 5-fold cross validation.
Training was doneon the remaining data.
Results were also com-pared with DOM.
The Mean Reciprocal Rank(MRR) was used for evaluation (Kantor andVoorhees, 2000).4.4 Preliminary ResultsMethod Cantonese MandarinDOM 0.2292 0.3518SoTo 0.2442 0.3557Table 5.
Average System PerformanceTable 5 shows the average results of the twomethods.
The figures are relatively low com-pared to state-of-the-art performance, largely dueto the small datasets.
Errors might have startedto propagate as early as the name segmentationstep.
As a preliminary study, however, the po-tential of the SoTo method is apparent, particu-larly for Cantonese.
A smaller model thus per-forms better, and treating homophones as a classcould avoid over-reliance on the prior distribu-tion of individual characters.
The better per-formance for Mandarin data is not surprisinggiven the less ?standardised?
Cantonese translit-erations as discussed above.
From the researchpoint of view, it suggests more should be consid-ered in addition to grapheme mapping for han-dling Cantonese data.5 Future Work and ConclusionThus we have compared E2C between MandarinChinese and Cantonese, and discussed work inprogress for our proposed SoTo method whichmore reasonably treats homophones and bettermodels tonal patterns in transliteration.
Futurework includes testing on larger datasets, more in-depth error analysis, and developing better meth-ods to deal with Cantonese transliterations.AcknowledgementsThe work described in this paper was substan-tially supported by a grant from City Universityof Hong Kong (Project No.
7002203).ReferencesKantor, P.B.
and Voorhees, E.M. (2000)  The TREC-5 Confusion Track: Comparing Retrieval Methodsfor Scanned Text.
Information Retrieval, 2(2-3):165-176.Knight, K. and Graehl, J.
(1998)  Machine Translit-eration.
Computational Linguistics, 24(4):599-612.Kuo, J-S. and Li, H. (2008)  Mining Transliterationsfrom Web Query Results: An Incremental Ap-proach.
In Proceedings of SIGHAN-6, Hyderabad,India, pp.16-23.Li, H., Zhang, M. and Su, J.
(2004)  A Joint Source-Channel Model for Machine Transliteration.
InProceedings of the 42nd Annual Meeting of ACL,Barcelona, Spain, pp.159-166.Li, H., Sim, K.C., Kuo, J-S. and Dong, M. (2007)Semantic Transliteration of Personal Names.
InProceedings of the 45th Annual Meeting of ACL,Prague, Czech Republic, pp.120-127.Oh, J-H. and Choi, K-S. (2005)  An Ensemble ofGrapheme and Phoneme for Machine Translitera-tion.
In R. Dale et al (Eds.
), Natural LanguageProcessing ?
IJCNLP 2005.
Springer, LNAI Vol.3651, pp.451-461.Tao, T., Yoon, S-Y., Fister, A., Sproat, R. and Zhai, C.(2006)  Unsupervised Named Entity TransliterationUsing Temporal and Phonetic Correlation.
In Pro-ceedings of EMNLP 2006, Sydney, Australia,pp.250-257.Virga, P. and Khudanpur, S. (2003)  Transliteration ofProper Names in Cross-lingual Information Re-trieval.
In Proceedings of the ACL2003 Workshopon Multilingual and Mixed-language Named EntityRecognition.24
