Tutorial Abstracts of ACL-IJCNLP 2009, page 5,Suntec, Singapore, 2 August 2009.c?2009 ACL and AFNLPLearning to RankHang LiMicrosoft Research Asia4F Sigma Building, No 49 Zhichun Road, Haidian, Beijing Chinahangli@microsoft.com1 IntroductionIn this tutorial I will introduce ?learning to rank?,a machine learning technology on constructing amodel for ranking objects using training data.
Iwill first explain the problem formulation of learn-ing to rank, and relations between learning torank and the other learning tasks.
I will then de-scribe learning to rank methods developed in re-cent years, including pointwise, pairwise, and list-wise approaches.
I will then give an introductionto the theoretical work on learning to rank and theapplications of learning to rank.
Finally, I willshow some future directions of research on learn-ing to rank.
The goal of this tutorial is to give theaudience a comprehensive survey to the technol-ogy and stimulate more research on the technol-ogy and application of the technology to naturallanguage processing.Learning to rank has been successfully appliedto information retrieval and is potentially usefulfor natural language processing as well.
In factmany NLP tasks can be formalized as rankingproblems and NLP technologies may be signifi-cantly improved by using learning to rank tech-niques.
These include question answering, sum-marization, and machine translation.
For exam-ple, in machine translation, given a sentence in thesource language, we are to translate it to a sentencein the target language.
Usually there are multi-ple possible translations and it would be better tosort the possible translations in descending orderof their likelihood and output the sorted results.Learning to rank can be employed in the task.2 Outline1.
Introduction2.
Learning to Rank Problem(a) Problem Formulation(b) Evaluation3.
Learning to Rank Methods(a) Pointwise Approachi.
McRank(b) Pairwise Approachi.
Ranking SVMii.
RankBoostiii.
RankNetiv.
IR SVM(c) Listwise Approachi.
ListNetii.
ListMLEiii.
AdaRankiv.
SVM Mapv.
PermuRankvi.
SoftRank(d) Other Methods4.
Learning to Rank Theory(a) Pairwise Approachi.
Generalization Analysis(b) Listwise Approachi.
Generalization Analysisii.
Consistency Analysis5.
Learning to Rank Applications(a) Search Ranking(b) Collaborative Filtering(c) Key Phrase Extraction(d) Potential Applications in Natural Lan-guage Processing6.
Future Directions for Learning to Rank Re-search7.
Conclusion5
