Proceedings of the 47th Annual Meeting of the ACL and the 4th IJCNLP of the AFNLP, pages 10?18,Suntec, Singapore, 2-7 August 2009. c?2009 ACL and AFNLPInvestigations on Word Senses and Word UsagesKatrin ErkUniversity of Texas at Austinkatrin.erk@mail.utexas.eduDiana McCarthyUniversity of Sussexdianam@sussex.ac.ukNicholas GaylordUniversity of Texas at Austinnlgaylord@mail.utexas.eduAbstractThe vast majority of work on word senseshas relied on predefined sense invento-ries and an annotation schema where eachword instance is tagged with the best fit-ting sense.
This paper examines the casefor a graded notion of word meaning intwo experiments, one which uses WordNetsenses in a graded fashion, contrasted withthe ?winner takes all?
annotation, and onewhich asks annotators to judge the similar-ity of two usages.
We find that the gradedresponses correlate with annotations fromprevious datasets, but sense assignmentsare used in a way that weakens the case forclear cut sense boundaries.
The responsesfrom both experiments correlate with theoverlap of paraphrases from the Englishlexical substitution task which bodes wellfor the use of substitutes as a proxy forword sense.
This paper also provides twonovel datasets which can be used for eval-uating computational systems.1 IntroductionThe vast majority of work on word sense tag-ging has assumed that predefined word sensesfrom a dictionary are an adequate proxy for thetask, although of course there are issues withthis enterprise both in terms of cognitive valid-ity (Hanks, 2000; Kilgarriff, 1997; Kilgarriff,2006) and adequacy for computational linguis-tics applications (Kilgarriff, 2006).
Furthermore,given a predefined list of senses, annotation effortsand computational approaches to word sense dis-ambiguation (WSD) have usually assumed that onebest fitting sense should be selected for each us-age.
While there is usually some allowance madefor multiple senses, this is typically not adopted byannotators or computational systems.Research on the psychology of concepts (Mur-phy, 2002; Hampton, 2007) shows that categoriesin the human mind are not simply sets with clear-cut boundaries: Some items are perceived asmore typical than others (Rosch, 1975; Rosch andMervis, 1975), and there are borderline cases onwhich people disagree more often, and on whosecategorization they are more likely to change theirminds (Hampton, 1979; McCloskey and Glucks-berg, 1978).
Word meanings are certainly relatedto mental concepts (Murphy, 2002).
This raisesthe question of whether there is any such thing asthe one appropriate sense for a given occurrence.In this paper we will explore using graded re-sponses for sense tagging within a novel annota-tion paradigm.
Modeling the annotation frame-work after psycholinguistic experiments, we donot train annotators to conform to sense distinc-tions; rather we assess individual differences byasking annotators to produce graded ratings in-stead of making a binary choice.
We perform twoannotation studies.
In the first one, referred toas WSsim (Word Sense Similarity), annotatorsgive graded ratings on the applicability of Word-Net senses.
In the second one, Usim (Usage Sim-ilarity), annotators rate the similarity of pairs ofoccurrences (usages) of a common target word.Both studies explore whether users make use ofa graded scale or persist in making binary deci-sions even when there is the option for a gradedresponse.
The first study additionally tests to whatextent the judgments on WordNet senses fall intoclear-cut clusters, while the second study allowsus to explore meaning similarity independently ofany lexicon resource.102 Related WorkManual word sense assignment is difficult forhuman annotators (Krishnamurthy and Nicholls,2000).
Reported inter-annotator agreement (ITA)for fine-grained word sense assignment tasks hasranged between 69% (Kilgarriff and Rosenzweig,2000) for a lexical sample using the HECTOR dic-tionary and 78.6.% using WordNet (Landes et al,1998) in all-words annotation.
The use of morecoarse-grained senses alleviates the problem: InOntoNotes (Hovy et al, 2006), an ITA of 90% isused as the criterion for the construction of coarse-grained sense distinctions.
However, intriguingly,for some high-frequency lemmas such as leavethis ITA threshold is not reached even after mul-tiple re-partitionings of the semantic space (Chenand Palmer, 2009).
Similarly, the performanceof WSD systems clearly indicates that WSD is noteasy unless one adopts a coarse-grained approach,and then systems tagging all words at best performa few percentage points above the most frequentsense heuristic (Navigli et al, 2007).
Good perfor-mance on coarse-grained sense distinctions maybe more useful in applications than poor perfor-mance on fine-grained distinctions (Ide and Wilks,2006) but we do not know this yet and there issome evidence to the contrary (Stokoe, 2005).Rather than focus on the granularity of clus-ters, the approach we will take in this paperis to examine the phenomenon of word mean-ing both with and without recourse to predefinedsenses by focusing on the similarity of uses of aword.
Human subjects show excellent agreementon judging word similarity out of context (Ruben-stein and Goodenough, 1965; Miller and Charles,1991), and human judgments have previously beenused successfully to study synonymy and near-synonymy (Miller and Charles, 1991; Bybee andEddington, 2006).
We focus on polysemy ratherthan synonymy.
Our aim will be to use WSsimto determine to what extent annotations form co-hesive clusters.
In principle, it should be possi-ble to use existing sense-annotated data to explorethis question: almost all sense annotation effortshave allowed annotators to assign multiple sensesto a single occurrence, and the distribution of thesesense labels should indicate whether annotatorsviewed the senses as disjoint or not.
However,the percentage of markables that received multi-ple sense labels in existing corpora is small, and itvaries massively between corpora: In the SemCorcorpus (Landes et al, 1998), only 0.3% of allmarkables received multiple sense labels.
In theSENSEVAL-3 English lexical task corpus (Mihal-cea et al, 2004) (hereafter referred to as SE-3), theratio is much higher at 8% of all markables1.
Thiscould mean annotators feel that there is usually asingle applicable sense, or it could point to a biastowards single-sense assignment in the annotationguidelines and/or the annotation tool.
The WSsimexperiment that we report in this paper is designedto eliminate such bias as far as possible and weconduct it on data taken from SemCor and SE-3 sothat we can compare the annotations.
Although weuse WordNet for the annotation, our study is not astudy of WordNet per se.
We choose WordNet be-cause it is sufficiently fine-grained to examine sub-tle differences in usage, and because traditionallyannotated datasets exist to which we can compareour results.Predefined dictionaries and lexical resources arenot the only possibilities for annotating lexicalitems with meaning.
In cross-lingual settings, theactual translations of a word can be taken as thesense labels (Resnik and Yarowsky, 2000).
Re-cently, McCarthy and Navigli (2007) proposedthe English Lexical Substitution task (hereafterreferred to as LEXSUB) under the auspices ofSemEval-2007.
It uses paraphrases for words incontext as a way of annotating meaning.
The taskwas proposed following a background of discus-sions in the WSD community as to the adequacyof predefined word senses.
The LEXSUB datasetcomprises open class words (nouns, verbs, adjec-tives and adverbs) with token instances of eachword appearing in the context of one sentencetaken from the English Internet Corpus (Sharoff,2006).
The methodology can only work wherethere are paraphrases, so the dataset only containswords with more than one meaning where at leasttwo different meanings have near synonyms.
Formeanings without obvious substitutes the annota-tors were allowed to use multiword paraphrases orwords with slightly more general meanings.
Thisdataset has been used to evaluate automatic sys-tems which can find substitutes appropriate for thecontext.
To the best of our knowledge there hasbeen no study of how the data collected relates toword sense annotations or judgments of semanticsimilarity.
In this paper we examine these relation-1This is even though both annotation efforts use balancedcorpora, the Brown corpus in the case of SemCor, the BritishNational Corpus for SE-3.11ships by re-using data from LEXSUB in both newannotation experiments and testing the results forcorrelation.3 AnnotationWe conducted two experiments through an on-line annotation interface.
Three annotators partic-ipated in each experiment; all were native BritishEnglish speakers.
The first experiment, WSsim,collected annotator judgments about the applica-bility of dictionary senses using a 5-point ratingscale.
The second, Usim, also utilized a 5-pointscale but collected judgments on the similarity inmeaning between two uses of a word.
2 The scalewas 1 ?
completely different, 2 ?
mostly different,3 ?
similar, 4 ?
very similar and 5 ?
identical.
InUsim, this scale rated the similarity of the two usesof the common target word; in WSsim it rated thesimilarity between the use of the target word andthe sense description.
In both experiments, the an-notation interface allowed annotators to revisit andchange previously supplied judgments, and a com-ment box was provided alongside each item.WSsim.
This experiment contained a total of430 sentences spanning 11 lemmas (nouns, verbsand adjectives).
For 8 of these lemmas, 50 sen-tences were included, 25 of them randomly sam-pled from SemCor 3 and 25 randomly sampledfrom SE-3.4 The remaining 3 lemmas in the ex-periment each had 10 sentences taken from theLEXSUB data.WSsim is a word sense annotation task usingWordNet senses.5 Unlike previous word sense an-notation projects, we asked annotators to providejudgments on the applicability of every WordNetsense of the target lemma with the instruction: 62Throughout this paper, a target word is assumed to be aword in a given PoS.3The SemCor dataset was produced alongside WordNet,so it can be expected to support the WordNet sense distinc-tions.
The same cannot be said for SE-3.4Sentence fragments and sentences with 5 or fewer wordswere excluded from the sampling.
Annotators were giventhe sentences, but not the original annotation from these re-sources.5WordNet 1.7.1 was used in the annotation of both SE-3and SemCor; we used the more current WordNet 3.0 afterverifying that the lemmas included in this experiment had thesame senses listed in both versions.
Care was taken addition-ally to ensure that senses were not presented in an order thatreflected their frequency of occurrence.6The guidelines for both experiments are avail-able at http://comp.ling.utexas.edu/people/katrin erk/graded sense and usageannotationYour task is to rate, for each of these descriptions,how well they reflect the meaning of the boldfacedword in the sentence.Applicability judgments were not binary, but wereinstead collected using the five-point scale givenabove which allowed annotators to indicate notonly whether a given sense applied, but to whatdegree.
Each annotator annotated each of the 430items.
By having multiple annotators per item anda graded, non-binary annotation scheme we al-low for and measure differences between annota-tors, rather than training annotators to conform toa common sense distinction guideline.
By askingannotators to provide ratings for each individualsense, we strive to eliminate all bias towards eithersingle-sense or multiple-sense assignment.
In tra-ditional word sense annotation, such bias could beintroduced directly through annotation guidelinesor indirectly, through tools that make it easier toassign fewer senses.
We focus not on finding thebest fitting sense but collect judgments on the ap-plicability of all senses.Usim.
This experiment used data from LEXSUB.For more information on LEXSUB, see McCarthyand Navigli (2007).
34 lemmas (nouns, verbs, ad-jectives and adverbs) were manually selected, in-cluding the 3 lemmas also used in WSsim.
We se-lected lemmas which exhibited a range of mean-ings and substitutes in the LEXSUB data, withas few multiword substitutes as possible.
Eachlemma is the target in 10 LEXSUB sentences.
Forour experiment, we took every possible pairwisecomparison of these 10 sentences for a lemma.
Werefer to each such pair of sentences as an SPAIR.The resulting dataset comprised 45 SPAIRs perlemma, adding up to 1530 comparisons per anno-tator overall.In this annotation experiment, annotators sawSPAIRs with a common target word and rated thesimilarity in meaning between the two uses of thetarget word with the instruction:Your task is to rate, for each pair of sentences, howsimilar in meaning the two boldfaced words are ona five-point scale.In addition annotators had the ability to respondwith ?Cannot Decide?, indicating that they wereunable to make an effective comparison betweenthe two contexts, for example because the mean-ing of one usage was unclear.
This occurred in9 paired occurrences during the course of anno-tation, and these items (paired occurrences) were12excluded from further analysis.The purpose of Usim was to collect judgmentsabout degrees of similarity between a word?smeaning in different contexts.
Unlike WSsim,Usim does not rely upon any dictionary resourceas a basis for the judgments.4 AnalysesThis section reports on analyses on the annotateddata.
In all the analyses we use Spearman?s rankcorrelation coefficient (?
), a nonparametric test,because the data does not seem to be normallydistributed.
We used two-tailed tests in all cases,rather than assume the direction of the relation-ship.
As noted above, we have three annotatorsper task, and each annotator gave judgments forevery sentence (WSsim) or sentence pair (Usim).Since the annotators may vary as to how they usethe ordinal scale, we do not use the mean of judg-ments7 but report all individual correlations.
Allanalyses were done using the R package.84.1 WSsim analysisIn the WSsim experiment, annotators rated the ap-plicability of each WordNet 3.0 sense for a giventarget word occurrence.
Table 1 shows a sampleannotation for the target argument.n.
9Pattern of annotation and annotator agree-ment.
Figure 1 shows how often each of the fivejudgments on the scale was used, individually andsummed over all annotators.
(The y-axis showsraw counts of each judgment.)
We can see fromthis figure that the extreme ratings 1 and 5 are usedmore often than the intermediate ones, but annota-tors make use of the full ordinal scale when judg-ing the applicability of a sense.
Also, the figureshows that annotator 1 used the extreme negativerating 1 much less than the other two annotators.Figure 2 shows the percentage of times each judg-ment was used on senses of three lemmas, differ-ent.a, interest.n, and win.v.
In WordNet, they have5, 7, and 4 senses, respectively.
The pattern forwin.v resembles the overall distribution of judg-ments, with peaks at the extreme ratings 1 and 5.The lemma interest.n has a single peak at rating1, partly due to the fact that senses 5 (financial7We have also performed several of our calculations us-ing the mean judgment, and they also gave highly significantresults in all the cases we tested.8http://www.r-project.org/9We use word.PoS to denote a target word (lemma).Annotator 1 Annotator 2 Annotator 3 overall12345050010001500200025003000Figure 1: WSsim experiment: number of timeseach judgment was used, by annotator andsummed over all annotators.
The y-axis shows rawcounts of each judgment.different.a interest.n win.v123450.00.10.20.30.40.5Figure 2: WSsim experiment: percentage of timeseach judgment was used for the lemmas differ-ent.a, interest.n and win.v.
Judgment counts weresummed over all three annotators.involvement) and 6 (interest group) were rarelyjudged to apply.
For the lemma different.a, alljudgments have been used with approximately thesame frequency.We measured the level of agreement betweenannotators using Spearman?s ?
between the judg-ments of every pair of annotators.
The pairwisecorrelations were ?
= 0.506, ?
= 0.466 and ?
=0.540, all highly significant with p < 2.2e-16.Agreement with previous annotation inSemCor and SE-3.
200 of the items in WSsimhad been previously annotated in SemCor, and200 in SE-3.
This lets us compare the annotationresults across annotation efforts.
Table 2 showsthe percentage of items where more than onesense was assigned in the subset of WSsim fromSemCor (first row), from SE-3 (second row), and13SensesSentence 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 AnnotatorThis question provoked arguments in America about theNorton Anthology of Literature by Women, some of thecontents of which were said to have had little value asliterature.1 4 4 2 1 1 3 Ann.
14 5 4 2 1 1 4 Ann.
21 4 5 1 1 1 1 Ann.
3Table 1: A sample annotation in the WSsim experiment.
The senses are: 1:statement, 2:controversy,3:debate, 4:literary argument, 5:parameter, 6:variable, 7:line of reasoningWSsim judgmentData Orig.
?
3 ?
4 5WSsim/SemCor 0.0 80.2 57.5 28.3WSsim/SE-3 24.0 78.0 58.3 27.1All WSsim 78.8 57.4 27.7Table 2: Percentage of items with multiple sensesassigned.
Orig: in the original SemCor/SE-3 data.WSsim judgment: items with judgments at orabove the specified threshold.
The percentages forWSsim are averaged over the three annotators.all of WSsim (third row).
The Orig.
columnindicates how many items had multiple labels inthe original annotation (SemCor or SE-3) 10.
Notethat no item had more than one sense label inSemCor.
The columns under WSsim judgmentshow the percentage of items (averaged overthe three annotators) that had judgments at orabove the specified threshold, starting from rating3 ?
similar.
Within WSsim, the percentage ofmultiple assignments in the three rows is fairlyconstant.
WSsim avoids the bias to one senseby deliberately asking for judgments on theapplicability of each sense rather than askingannotators to find the best one.To compute the Spearman?s correlation betweenthe original sense labels and those given in theWSsim annotation, we converted SemCor andSE-3 labels to the format used within WSsim: As-signed senses were converted to a judgment of 5,and unassigned senses to a judgment of 1.
For theWSsim/SemCor dataset, the correlation betweenoriginal and WSsim annotation was ?
= 0.234,?
= 0.448, and ?
= 0.390 for the three anno-tators, each highly significant with p < 2.2e-16.For the WSsim/SE-3 dataset, the correlations were?
= 0.346, ?
= 0.449 and ?
= 0.338, each of themagain highly significant at p < 2.2e-16.Degree of sense grouping.
Next we test to whatextent the sense applicability judgments in the10Overall, 0.3% of tokens in SemCor have multiple labels,and 8% of tokens in SE-3, so the multiple label assignment inour sample is not an underestimate.p < 0.05 p < 0.01pos neg pos negAnn.
1 30.8 11.4 23.2 5.9Ann.
2 22.2 24.1 19.6 19.6Ann.
3 12.7 12.0 10.0 6.0Table 3: Percentage of sense pairs that were sig-nificantly positively (pos) or negatively (neg) cor-related at p < 0.05 and p < 0.01, shown by anno-tator.j ?
3 j ?
4 j = 5Ann.
1 71.9 49.1 8.1Ann.
2 55.3 24.7 8.1Ann.
3 42.8 24.0 4.9Table 4: Percentage of sentences in which at leasttwo uncorrelated (p > 0.05) or negatively corre-lated senses have been annotated with judgmentsat the specified threshold.WSsim task could be explained by more coarse-grained, categorial sense assignments.
We firsttest how many pairs of senses for a given lemmashow similar patterns in the ratings that they re-ceive.
Table 3 shows the percentage of sense pairsthat were significantly correlated for each anno-tator.11 Significantly positively correlated sensescan possibly be reduced to more coarse-grainedsenses.
Would annotators have been able to des-ignate a single appropriate sense given these morecoarse-grained senses?
Call two senses groupableif they are significantly positively correlated; in or-der not to overlook correlations that are relativelyweak but existent, we use a cutoff of p = 0.05 forsignificant correlation.
We tested how often anno-tators gave ratings of at least similar, i.e.
ratings?
3, to senses that were not groupable.
Table 4shows the percentages of items where at least twonon-groupable senses received ratings at or abovethe specified threshold.
The table shows that re-gardless of which annotator we look at, over 40%of all items had two or more non-groupable sensesreceive judgments of at least 3 (similar).
There11We exclude senses that received a uniform rating of 1 onall items.
This concerned 4 senses for annotator 2 and 6 forannotator 3.141) We study the methods and concepts that each writer uses todefend the cogency of legal, deliberative, or more generallypolitical prudence against explicit or implicit charges thatpractical thinking is merely a knack or form of cleverness.2) Eleven CIRA members have been convicted of criminalcharges and others are awaiting trial.Figure 3: An SPAIR for charge.n.
Annotator judg-ments: 2,3,4were even several items where two or more non-groupable senses each got a judgment of 5.
Thesentence in table 1 is a case where several non-groupable senses got ratings ?
3.
This is mostpronounced for Annotator 2, who along with sense2 (controversy) assigned senses 1 (statement), 7(line of reasoning), and 3 (debate), none of whichare groupable with sense 2.4.2 Usim analysisIn this experiment, ratings between 1 and 5 weregiven for every pairwise combination of sentencesfor each target lemma.
An example of an SPAIRfor charge.n is shown in figure 3.
In this case theverdicts from the annotators were 2, 3 and 4.Pattern of Annotations and Annotator Agree-ment Figure 4 gives a bar chart of the judgmentsfor each annotator and summed over annotators.We can see from this figure that the annotatorsuse the full ordinal scale when judging the simi-larity of a word?s usages, rather than sticking tothe extremes.
There is variation across words, de-pending on the relatedness of each word?s usages.Figure 5 shows the judgments for the words bar.n,work.v and raw.a.
We see that bar.n has predom-inantly different usages with a peak for category1, work.v has more similar judgments (category 5)compared to any other category and raw.a has apeak in the middle category (3).
12 There are otherwords, like for example fresh.a, where the spreadis more uniform.To gauge the level of agreement between anno-tators, we calculated Spearman?s ?
between thejudgments of every pair of annotators as in sec-tion 4.1.
The pairwise correlations are all highlysignificant (p < 2.2e-16) with Spearman?s ?
=0.502, 0.641 and 0.501 giving an average corre-lation of 0.548.
We also perform leave-one-out re-sampling following Lapata (2006) which gave usa Spearman?s correlation of 0.630.12For figure 5 we sum the judgments over annotators.Annotator 4 Annotator 5 Annotator 6 overall12345050010001500Figure 4: Usim experiment: number of times eachjudgment was used, by annotator and summedover all annotatorsbar.n raw.a work.v123450102030405060Figure 5: Usim experiment: number of times eachjudgment was used for bar.n, work.v and raw.aComparison with LEXSUB substitutions Nextwe look at whether the Usim judgments on sen-tence pairs (SPAIRs) correlate with LEXSUB sub-stitutes.
To do this we use the overlap of substi-tutes provided by the five LEXSUB annotators be-tween two sentences in an SPAIR.
In LEXSUB theannotators had to replace each item (a target wordwithin the context of a sentence) with a substitutethat fitted the context.
Each annotator was permit-ted to supply up to three substitutes provided thatthey all fitted the context equally.
There were 10sentences per lemma.
For our analyses we takeevery SPAIR for a given lemma and calculate theoverlap (inter) of the substitutes provided by theannotators for the two usages under scrutiny.
Lets1 and s2 be a pair of sentences in an SPAIR and15x1 and x2 be the multisets of substitutes for therespective sentences.
Let f req(w,x) be the fre-quency of a substitute w in a multiset x of sub-stitutes for a given sentence.
13 INTER(s1,s2) =?w?x1?x2 min( f req(w,x1), f req(w,x2))max(|x1|, |x2|)Using this calculation for each SPAIR we cannow compute the correlation between the Usimjudgments for each annotator and the INTER val-ues, again using Spearman?s.
The figures areshown in the leftmost block of table 5.
The av-erage correlation for the 3 annotators was 0.488and the p-values were all < 2.2e-16.
This showsa highly significant correlation of the Usim judg-ments and the overlap of substitutes.We also compare the WSsim judgments againstthe LEXSUB substitutes, again using the INTERmeasure of substitute overlap.
For this analysis,we only use those WSsim sentences that are origi-nally from LEXSUB.
In WSsim, the judgments fora sentence comprise judgments for each WordNetsense of that sentence.
In order to compare againstINTER, we need to transform these sentence-wiseratings in WSsim to a WSsim-based judgment ofsentence similarity.
To this end, we compute theEuclidean Distance14 (ED) between two vectors J1and J2 of judgments for two sentences s1,s2 for thesame lemma `.
Each of the n indexes of the vectorrepresent one of the n different WordNet sensesfor `.
The value at entry i of the vector J1 is thejudgment that the annotator in question (we do notaverage over annotators here) provided for sense iof ` for sentence s1.ED(J1,J2) =?(n?i=1(J1[i]?
J2[i])2) (1)We correlate the Euclidean distances withINTER.
We can only test correlation for the subsetof WSsim that overlaps with the LEXSUB data: the30 sentences for investigator.n, function.n and or-der.v, which together give 135 unique SPAIRs.
Werefer to this subset as W?U.
The results are givenin the third block of table 5.
Note that since we aremeasuring distance between SPAIRs for WSsim13The frequency of a substitute in a multiset depends onthe number of LEXSUB annotators that picked the substitutefor this item.14We use Euclidean Distance rather than a normalizingmeasure like Cosine because a sentence where all ratings are5 should be very different from a sentence where all sensesreceived a rating of 1.Usim All Usim W?U WSsim W?Uann.
?
?
ann.
?4 0.383 0.330 1 -0.5205 0.498 0.635 2 -0.5036 0.584 0.631 3 -0.463Table 5: Annotator correlation with LEXSUB sub-stitute overlap (inter)whereas INTER is a measure of similarity, the cor-relation is negative.
The results are highly signif-icant with individual p-values from < 1.067e-10to < 1.551e-08 and a mean correlation of -0.495.The results in the first and third block of table 5 arenot directly comparable, as the results in the firstblock are for all Usim data and not the subset ofLEXSUB with WSsim annotations.
We thereforerepeated the analysis for Usim on the subset ofdata in WSsim and provide the correlation in themiddle section of table 5.
The mean correlationfor Usim on this subset of the data is 0.532, whichis a stronger relationship compared to WSsim, al-though there is more discrepancy between individ-ual annotators, with the result for annotator 4 giv-ing a p-value = 9.139e-05 while the other two an-notators had p-values < 2.2e-16.The LEXSUB substitute overlaps between dif-ferent usages correlate well with both Usim andWSsim judgments, with a slightly stronger rela-tionship to Usim, perhaps due to the more compli-cated representation of word meaning in WSsimwhich uses the full set of WordNet senses.4.3 Correlation between WSsim and UsimAs we showed in section 4.1, WSsim correlateswith previous word sense annotations in SemCorand SE-3 while allowing the user a more gradedresponse to sense tagging.
As we saw in sec-tion 4.2, Usim and WSsim judgments both have ahighly significant correlation with similarity of us-ages as measured using the overlap of substitutesfrom LEXSUB.
Here, we look at the correlationof WSsim and Usim, considering again the sub-set of data that is common to both experiments.We again transform WSsim sense judgments forindividual sentences to distances between SPAIRsusing Euclidean Distance (ED).
The Spearman?s?
range between ?0.307 and ?0.671, and all re-sults are highly significant with p-values between0.0003 and < 2.2e-16.
As above, the correla-tion is negative because ED is a distance measurebetween sentences in an SPAIR, whereas the judg-16ments for Usim are similarity judgments.
We seethat there is highly significant correlation for everypairing of annotators from the two experiments.5 DiscussionValidity of annotation scheme.
Annotator rat-ings show highly significant correlation on bothtasks.
This shows that the tasks are well-defined.In addition, there is a strong correlation betweenWSsim and Usim, which indicates that the poten-tial bias introduced by the use of dictionary sensesin WSsim is not too prominent.
However, we notethat WSsim only contained a small portion of 3lemmas (30 sentences and 135 SPAIRs) in com-mon with Usim, so more annotation is needed tobe certain of this relationship.
Given the differ-ences between annotator 1 and the other annota-tors in Fig.
1, it would be interesting to collectjudgments for additional annotators.Graded judgments of use similarity and senseapplicability.
The annotators made use of thefull spectrum of ratings, as shown in Figures 1 and4.
This may be because of a graded perception ofthe similarity of uses as well as senses, or becausesome uses and senses are very similar.
Table 4shows that for a large number of WSsim items,multiple senses that were not significantly posi-tively correlated got high ratings.
This seems toindicate that the ratings we obtained cannot sim-ply be explained by more coarse-grained senses.
Itmay hence be reasonable to pursue computationalmodels of word meaning that are graded, maybeeven models that do not rely on dictionary sensesat all (Erk and Pado, 2008).Comparison to previous word sense annotation.Our graded WSsim annotations do correlate withtraditional ?best fitting sense?
annotations fromSemCor and SE-3; however, if annotators perceivesimilarity between uses and senses as graded, tra-ditional word sense annotation runs the risk of in-troducing bias into the annotation.Comparison to lexical substitutions.
There is astrong correlation between both Usim and WSsimand the overlap in paraphrases that annotators gen-erated for LEXSUB.
This is very encouraging, andespecially interesting because LEXSUB annotatorsfreely generated paraphrases rather than selectingthem from a list.6 ConclusionsWe have introduced a novel annotation paradigmfor word sense annotation that allows for gradedjudgments and for some variation between anno-tators.
We have used this annotation paradigmin two experiments, WSsim and Usim, that shedsome light on the question of whether differencesbetween word usages are perceived as categorialor graded.
Both datasets will be made publiclyavailable.
There was a high correlation betweenannotator judgments within and across tasks, aswell as with previous word sense annotation andwith paraphrases proposed in the English Lex-ical Substitution task.
Annotators made ampleuse of graded judgments in a way that cannotbe explained through more coarse-grained senses.These results suggest that it may make sense toevaluate WSD systems on a task of graded ratherthan categorial meaning characterization, eitherthrough dictionary senses or similarity betweenuses.
In that case, it would be useful to have moreextensive datasets with graded annotation, eventhough this annotation paradigm is more time con-suming and thus more expensive than traditionalword sense annotation.As a next step, we will automatically cluster thejudgments we obtained in the WSsim and Usimexperiments to further explore the degree to whichthe annotation gives rise to sense grouping.
Wewill also use the ratings in both experiments toevaluate automatically induced models of wordmeaning.
The SemEval-2007 word sense induc-tion task (Agirre and Soroa, 2007) already allowsfor evaluation of automatic sense induction sys-tems, but compares output to gold-standard sensesfrom OntoNotes.
We hope that the Usim datasetwill be particularly useful for evaluating methodswhich relate usages without necessarily producinghard clusters.
Also, we will extend the currentdataset using more annotators and exploring ad-ditional lexicon resources.Acknowledgments.
We acknowledge supportfrom the UK Royal Society for a Dorothy HodkinFellowship to the second author.
We thank Sebas-tian Pado for many helpful discussions, and An-drew Young for help with the interface.ReferencesE.
Agirre and A. Soroa.
2007.
SemEval-2007task 2: Evaluating word sense induction and dis-17crimination systems.
In Proceedings of the 4thInternational Workshop on Semantic Evaluations(SemEval-2007), pages 7?12, Prague, Czech Repub-lic.J.
Bybee and D. Eddington.
2006.
A usage-based ap-proach to Spanish verbs of ?becoming?.
Language,82(2):323?355.J.
Chen and M. Palmer.
2009.
Improving Englishverb sense disambiguation performance with lin-guistically motivated features and clear sense dis-tinction boundaries.
Journal of Language Resourcesand Evaluation, Special Issue on SemEval-2007.
inpress.K.
Erk and S. Pado.
2008.
A structured vector spacemodel for word meaning in context.
In Proceedingsof EMNLP-08, Waikiki, Hawaii.J.
A. Hampton.
1979.
Polymorphous concepts in se-mantic memory.
Journal of Verbal Learning andVerbal Behavior, 18:441?461.J.
A. Hampton.
2007.
Typicality, graded membership,and vagueness.
Cognitive Science, 31:355?384.P.
Hanks.
2000.
Do word meanings exist?
Computersand the Humanities, 34(1-2):205?215(11).E.
H. Hovy, M. Marcus, M. Palmer, S. Pradhan,L.
Ramshaw, and R. Weischedel.
2006.
OntoNotes:The 90% solution.
In Proceedings of the Hu-man Language Technology Conference of the NorthAmerican Chapter of the ACL (NAACL-2006), pages57?60, New York.N.
Ide and Y. Wilks.
2006.
Making sense aboutsense.
In E. Agirre and P. Edmonds, editors,Word Sense Disambiguation, Algorithms and Appli-cations, pages 47?73.
Springer.A.
Kilgarriff and J. Rosenzweig.
2000.
Frameworkand results for English Senseval.
Computers and theHumanities, 34(1-2):15?48.A.
Kilgarriff.
1997.
I don?t believe in word senses.Computers and the Humanities, 31(2):91?113.A.
Kilgarriff.
2006.
Word senses.
In E. Agirreand P. Edmonds, editors, Word Sense Disambigua-tion, Algorithms and Applications, pages 29?46.Springer.R.
Krishnamurthy and D. Nicholls.
2000.
Peelingan onion: the lexicographers?
experience of man-ual sense-tagging.
Computers and the Humanities,34(1-2).S.
Landes, C. Leacock, and R. Tengi.
1998.
Build-ing semantic concordances.
In C. Fellbaum, editor,WordNet: An Electronic Lexical Database.
The MITPress, Cambridge, MA.M.
Lapata.
2006.
Automatic evaluation of informationordering.
Computational Linguistics, 32(4):471?484.D.
McCarthy and R. Navigli.
2007.
SemEval-2007task 10: English lexical substitution task.
In Pro-ceedings of the 4th International Workshop on Se-mantic Evaluations (SemEval-2007), pages 48?53,Prague, Czech Republic.M.
McCloskey and S. Glucksberg.
1978.
Natural cat-egories: Well defined or fuzzy sets?
Memory &Cognition, 6:462?472.R.
Mihalcea, T. Chklovski, and A. Kilgarriff.
2004.The Senseval-3 English lexical sample task.
In3rd International Workshop on Semantic Evalua-tions (SensEval-3) at ACL-2004, Barcelona, Spain.G.
Miller and W. Charles.
1991.
Contextual correlatesof semantic similarity.
Language and cognitive pro-cesses, 6(1):1?28.G.
L. Murphy.
2002.
The Big Book of Concepts.
MITPress.R.
Navigli, K. C. Litkowski, and O. Hargraves.2007.
SemEval-2007 task 7: Coarse-grained En-glish all-words task.
In Proceedings of the 4thInternational Workshop on Semantic Evaluations(SemEval-2007), pages 30?35, Prague, Czech Re-public.P.
Resnik and D. Yarowsky.
2000.
Distinguishingsystems and distinguishing senses: New evaluationmethods for word sense disambiguation.
NaturalLanguage Engineering, 5(3):113?133.E.
Rosch and C. B. Mervis.
1975.
Family resem-blance: Studies in the internal structure of cate-gories.
Cognitive Psychology, 7:573?605.E.
Rosch.
1975.
Cognitive representations of seman-tic categories.
Journal of Experimental Psychology:General, 104:192?233.H.
Rubenstein and J. Goodenough.
1965.
Contextualcorrelates of synonymy.
Computational Linguistics,8:627?633.S.
Sharoff.
2006.
Open-source corpora: Using the netto fish for linguistic data.
International Journal ofCorpus Linguistics, 11(4):435?462.C.
Stokoe.
2005.
Differentiating homonymy and pol-ysemy in information retrieval.
In Proceedings ofHLT/EMNLP-05, pages 403?410, Vancouver, B.C.,Canada.18
