Tutorial Abstracts of ACL-IJCNLP 2009, page 3,Suntec, Singapore, 2 August 2009.c?2009 ACL and AFNLPSemantic Role Labeling: Past, Present and FutureLlu?
?s M`arquezTALP Research CenterSoftware DepartmentTechnical University of Catalonialluism@lsi.upc.edu1 IntroductionSemantic Role Labeling (SRL) consists of, givena sentence, detecting basic event structures suchas ?who?
did ?what?
to ?whom?, ?when?
and?where?.
From a linguistic point of view, a keycomponent of the task corresponds to identifyingthe semantic arguments filling the roles of the sen-tence predicates.
Typical predicate semantic argu-ments include Agent, Patient, and Instrument, butsemantic roles may also be found as adjuncts (e.g.,Locative, Temporal, Manner, and Cause).
Theidentification of such event frames holds potentialfor significant impact in many NLP applications,such as Information Extraction, Question Answer-ing, Summarization and Machine Translation.Recently, the compilation and manual annota-tion with semantic roles of several corpora hasenabled the development of supervised statisticalapproaches to SRL, which has become a well-defined task with a substantial body of work andcomparative evaluation.
Significant advances inmany directions have been reported over the lastseveral years, including but not limited to: ma-chine learning algorithms and architectures spe-cialized for the task, feature engineering, inferenceto force coherent solutions, and system combina-tions.However, despite all the efforts and the con-siderable degree of maturity of the SRL technol-ogy, the use of SRL systems in real-world ap-plications has so far been limited and, certainly,below the initial expectations.
This fact has todo with the weaknesses and limitations of currentsystems, which have been highlighted by manyof the evaluation exercises and keep unresolvedfor a few years (e.g., poor generalization acrosscorpora, low scalability and efficiency, knowledgepoor features, too high complexity, absolute per-formance below 90%, etc.
).2 Content Overview and OutlineThis tutorial has two differentiated parts.
Inthe first one, the state-of-the-art on SRL will beoverviewed, including: main techniques applied,existing systems, and lessons learned from theCoNLL and SemEval evaluation exercises.
Thispart will include a critical review of current prob-lems and the identification of the main challengesfor the future.
The second part is devoted to thelines of research oriented to overcome current lim-itations.
This part will include an analysis ofthe relation between syntax and SRL, the devel-opment of joint systems for integrated syntactic-semantic analysis, generalization across corpora,and engineering of truly semantic features.
Seethe outline below.1.
Introduction?
Problem definition and properties?
Importance of SRL?
Main computational resources and systems avail-able for SRL2.
State-of-the-art SRL systems?
Architecture?
Training of different components?
Feature engineering3.
Empirical evaluation of SRL systems?
Evaluation exercises at SemEval and CoNLLconferences?
Main lessons learned4.
Current problems and challenges5.
Keys for future progress?
Relation to syntax: joint learning of syntactic andsemantic dependencies?
Generalization across domains and text genres?
Use of semantic knowledge?
SRL systems in applications6.
Conclusions3
