Tutorial Abstracts of ACL-IJCNLP 2009, page 4,Suntec, Singapore, 2 August 2009.c?2009 ACL and AFNLPComputational Modeling of Human Language AcquisitionAfra AlishahiDepartment of Computational Linguistics and PhoneticsSaarland University, Germanyafra@coli.uni-saarland.de1 IntroductionThe nature and amount of information neededfor learning a natural language, and the under-lying mechanisms involved in this process, arethe subject of much debate: is it possible tolearn a language from usage data only, or somesort of innate knowledge and/or bias is neededto boost the process?
This is a topic of inter-est to (psycho)linguists who study human lan-guage acquisition, as well as computational lin-guists who develop the knowledge sources nec-essary for largescale natural language process-ing systems.
Children are a source of inspira-tion for any such study of language learnability.They learn language with ease, and their acquiredknowledge of language is flexible and robust.Human language acquisition has been studiedfor centuries, but using computational modelingfor such studies is a relatively recent trend.
How-ever, computational approaches to language learn-ing have become increasing popular, mainly dueto the advances in developing machine learningtechniques, and the availability of vast collectionsof experimental data on child language learningand child-adult interaction.
Many of the existingcomputational models attempt to study the com-plex task of learning a language under the cogni-tive plausibility criteria (such as memory and pro-cessing limitations that humans face), as well asto explain the developmental patterns observed inchildren.
Such computational studies can provideinsight into the plausible mechanisms involved inhuman language acquisition, and be a source ofinspiration for developing better language modelsand techniques.2 Content OverviewThis tutorial will discuss the main research ques-tions that the researchers in the field of compu-tational language acquisition are concerned with,and will review common approaches and tech-niques used in developing such models.
Compu-tational modeling has been vastly applied to dif-ferent domains of language acquisition, includingword segmentation and phonology, morphology,syntax, semantics and discourse.
However, due totime restrictions, the focus of the tutorial will beon the acquisition of word meaning, syntax, andthe relationship between syntax and semantics.The first part of the tutorial focuses on some ofthe fundamental issues in the study of human lan-guage acquisition, and the role of computationalmodeling in addressing these issues.
Specifically,we discuss language modularity, i.e.
the represen-tation and acquisition of various aspects of lan-guage, and the interaction between these aspects.We also review the major arguments on languagelearnability and innateness.
We then give a generaloverview of how computational modeling is usedfor investigating different views on each of thesetopics, how the theoretical assumptions are inte-grated into computational models, and how suchmodels are evaluated based on the experimentalobservations.In the second part of the tutorial, we will takea closer look at some of the existing models oflanguage learning.
We discuss general trends incomputational modeling over the past decades, in-cluding symbolic, connectionist, and probabilisticmodeling.
We review a number of more influentialmodels of the acquisition of syntax and semantics,and the link between the two.
Finally, we exploresome of the available tools and resources for im-plementing and evaluating computational modelsof language acquisition.4
