Proceedings of the ACL-IJCNLP 2009 Conference Short Papers, pages 181?184,Suntec, Singapore, 4 August 2009. c?2009 ACL and AFNLPAn Ontology?Based Approach for Key Phrase ExtractionChau Q. NguyenHCM University of Industry12 Nguyen Van Bao St, Go Vap Dist,HCMC, Vietnamchauqn@hui.edu.vnTuoi T. PhanHCMC University of Technology268 Ly Thuong Kiet St, Dist 10,HCMC, Vietnamtuoi@cse.hcmut.edu.vnAbstractAutomatic key phrase extraction is funda-mental to the success of many recent digitallibrary applications and semantic informationretrieval techniques and a difficult and essen-tial problem in Vietnamese natural languageprocessing (NLP).
In this work, we propose anovel method for key phrase extracting ofVietnamese text that exploits the VietnameseWikipedia as an ontology and exploits spe-cific characteristics of the Vietnamese lan-guage for the key phrase selection stage.
Wealso explore NLP techniques that we proposefor the analysis of Vietnamese texts, focusingon the advanced candidate phrases recogni-tion phase as well as part-of-speech (POS)tagging.
Finally, we review the results of sev-eral experiments that have examined the im-pacts of strategies chosen for Vietnamese keyphrase extracting.1 IntroductionKey phrases, which can be single keywords ormultiword key terms, are linguistic descriptors ofdocuments.
They are often sufficiently informa-tive to allow human readers get a feel for the es-sential topics and main content included in thesource documents.
Key phrases have also beenused as features in many text-related applicationssuch as text clustering, document similarityanalysis, and document summarization.
Manu-ally extracting key phrases from a number ofdocuments is quite expensive.
Automatic keyphrase extraction is a maturing technology thatcan serve as an efficient and practical alternative.In this paper, we present an ontology-based ap-proach to building a Vietnamese key phrase ex-traction system for Vietnamese text.
The rest ofthe paper is organized as follows: Section 2states the problem as well as describes its scope,Section 3 introduces resources of information inWikipedia that are essential for our method, Sec-tion 4 describes extraction of titles and its cate-gories from Wikipedia to build a dictionary, Sec-tion 5 proposes a methodology for the Vietnam-ese key phrase extraction model, Section 6evaluates our approach on many Vietnamesequery sentences with different styles of texts, andfinally the conclusion is presented in Section 7.2 BackgroundThe objective of our research is to build a systemthat can extract key phrases in Vietnamese que-ries in order to meet the demands associated withinformation searching and information retriev-ing, especially to support search engines andautomatic answer systems on the Internet.
Forthis purpose, we provide the following defini-tion:Key phrases in a sentence are phrases thatexpress meaning completely and also express thepurpose of the sentence to which they are as-signed.For an example, we have a query sentence asfollows:?Laptop Dell E1405 c?
gi?
bao nhi?u?
?.That means ?How much does a Dell E1405 lap-top cost?
?.Key phrases are ?Laptop Dell E1405?, ?gi?
?, and?bao nhi?u?.
In this case, the interrogative word?bao nhi?u?
is used to add a meaning for the tworest noun phrases, making the query of usersclear, wanting to know the numeral aspect aboutthe ?price?
of a  ?Laptop Dell E1405?.3 WikipediaWikipedia is a multilingual, web-based, freelyavailable encyclopedia, constructed as a collabo-rative effort of voluntary contributors on theweb.
Wikipedia grows rapidly, and with ap-proximately 7.5 million articles in more than 253languages, it has arguably become the world'slargest collection of freely available knowledge.181Wikipedia contains a rich body of lexical seman-tic information, the aspects of which are compre-hensively described in (Zesch et al, 2007).
Addi-tionally, the redirect system of Wikipedia articlescan be used as a dictionary for synonyms, spell-ing variations and abbreviations.A PAGE.
A basic entry in Wikipedia is a pagethat represents either a normal Wikipedia article,a redirect to an article, or a disambiguation page.Each page object provides access to the articletext (with markup information or as plain text),the assigned categories, the ingoing and outgoingarticle links as well as all redirects that link to thearticle.A LINK.
Each page consists of many linkswhich function not only to point from the page toothers, but also to guide readers to pages thatprovide additional information about the entriesmentioned.
Each link is associated with an an-chor text that denotes an ambiguous name or isan alternative name, instead of a canonical name.CATEGORY.
Category objects representWikipedia categories and allow access to the ar-ticles within each category.
As categories inWikipedia form a thesaurus, a category objectalso provides means to retrieve parent and childcategories as well as siblings and all recursivelycollected descendants.REDIRECT PAGE.
A redirect page typicallycontains only a reference to an entry or a conceptpage.
The title of the redirect page is an alterna-tive name for that entity or concept.DISAMBIGUATION PAGE.
A disambiguationpage is created for an ambiguous name that de-notes two or more entities in Wikipedia.
It con-sists of links to pages that define different enti-ties with the same name.4 Building a dictionaryBased on the aforementioned resources of infor-mation, we follow the method presented in(Bunescu and Pasca, 2006) to build a dictionarycalled ViDic.
Since our research focuses on Keyphrases, we first consider which pages inWikipedia define concepts or objects to whichkey phrases refer.
The key phrases are extractedfrom the title of the page.
We consider a pagehas key phrases if it satisfies one of the followingsteps:1.
If its title is a word or a phrase then the titleis key phrase.2.
If its title is a sentence then we follow themethod presented in (Chau and Tuoi, 2007)to extract key phrases of the sentence.Following this method, the ViDic is constructedso that the set of entries in the ViDic consists ofall strings that denote a concept.
In particular, ifc is a concept, its key phrases, its title name, itsredirect name and its category are all added asentries in the ViDic.
Then each entry string in theViDic is mapped to a set of entries that the stringmay denote in Wikipedia.
As a result, a conceptc is included in the set if, and only if, the stringhas key phrases which is extracted from the titlename, redirect name, or disambiguation name ofc.Although we utilize information from Wikipediato build the ViDic, our method can be adaptedfor an ontology or knowledge base in general.5 Proposed methodWe consider the employment of a set of NLPtechniques adequate for dealing with the Viet-namese key phrase extraction problem.
We pro-pose the following general Vietnamese keyphrase extraction model (see Figure 1).5.1 Pre-processingThe input of pre-processing is user?s queries andthe output is a list of words and their POS labels.Because of the effectiveness and convenienceassociated with integrating two stages of wordsegmentation and POS tagging, we proposed twomodules for the pre-processing stage.
The pur-poses of two modules are as follows:?
Word Segmentation: The main function ofthis segmentation module is to identify andseparate the tokens present in the text in such away that every individual word, as well asevery punctuation mark, will be a different to-ken.
The segmentation module considerswords, numbers with decimals or dates in nu-Figure 1.
The general Vietnamese key phraseextraction model.Key phrasesPatternsOntologyViO &ViDicKey phrasesextractionCandidate phrasesidentificationVietnamese textsPre-processingPOS TaggingSegmentation182merical format in order not to separate the dot,the comma or the slash (respectively) from thepreceding and/or following elements.?
POS tagging: The output of the segmentationmodule is taken as input by the POS taggingmodule.
Almost any kind of POS taggingcould be applied.
In our system, we have pro-posed a hybrid model for the problem of Viet-namese POS Tagging (Chau and Tuoi, 2006).This model combines a rule-based method anda statistical learning method.
With regard todata, we use a lexicon with information aboutpossible POS tags for each word, a manuallylabeled corpus, syntax and context of texts.5.2 Candidate phrases identificationThe input of the candidate phrase identificationis a list of words and their POS labels, and theoutput is a list of words and their chunking la-bels.
The idea underlying this method (Chau andTuoi, 2007) for the Vietnamese key phrase ex-traction is based on a number of grammaticalconstructions in Vietnamese.
The method con-sists of pattern-action rules executed by the fi-nite-state transduction mechanism.
It recognizesentities such as noun phrases.
In order to accom-plish the noun phrases recognition, we have de-veloped over 434 patterns of noun phrase groupsthat cover proper noun constructs.5.3 Key phrases extractionIn this section, we focus on the description of amethodology for key phrase extraction.
Thismethod combines a pattern-based method and astatistical learning method.
Both methods willcomplement each other to increase the expectedperformance of the model.
In particular, themethod has the following steps:?
Step 1: We propose a method that exploitsspecific characteristics of Vietnamese (Chau andTuoi, 2007).
At the heart of this method is theidea of building a Vietnamese words set that re-flects semantic relationships among objects.
Forexample, consider the sentence that follows:?M?y t?nh n?y c?
dung lng RAM ln nht l?bao nhi?u ??
that means ?What is the largestRAM capacity for this computer?
?In this sentence, we have two objects ?M?yt?nh?
(this computer) and ?RAM?
in real world.Respectively, two noun phrases are ?M?yt?nh?
(this computer) and ?dung lng RAM lnnht?
(the largest RAM capacity).
We considerthe meanings of words per the above example;we will recognize ?c?
?, a meaning word in ourmeaning word set, which reflects a possessiverelationship between ?M?y t?nh?
and ?dunglng RAM ln nht?.
This has identified ?dunglng RAM ln nht?
representing the meaningof the sentence.This meaning word-based approach provides aset of semantic relationships (meaning words)between phrases to support key phrase extrac-tion, which does not require building a hierarchyor semantic networkof objects in the Vietnameselanguage.?
Step 2:  In case the sentence has no meaningword among phrases, the key phrase extractingprocess is based on the ViO ontology via conceptmatching.
In particular, this step has the follow-ing phases:1. every candidate phrase in the sentence ismatched to an entry in the VicDic dictionaryespecially when new phrases are not a con-cern or do not exist in the dictionary.
Be-cause a partial matching dilemma usually ex-ists, we apply several strategies to improvethe matching process, including maximummatching, minimum-matching, forward-matching, backward-matching and bi-directional matching.2.
if the matching process is successful, thenwe retrieve categories for the entries respec-tively via the category system in the ViO on-tology; if the candidate phrase has the mostspecific category, then the phrase is the keyphrase of the sentence indicated in Step 3.3. if the matching process is not successful,then we find a semantic similarity concept inthe ViO ontology as Step 4.
After that, thekey phrase extracting process will go tophase 2.?
Step 3: The idea of the most specific categoryidentification process based on the ViO ontologyis shown as pseudo-code, such asAlgorithm: the most specific category identification- Input: C1, C2 categories, and  the ViO Ontology- Output: C1 or C2 or both C1 and C21.
begin2.
if C1& C2  have a synonyms relationship in ViO3.
then  C1 & C2 are the most specific categories4.
else if C1 has isa relationship of C2 then C1 is themost specific category.5.
to traverse the ViO ontology  from C1 & C2  tofind the nearest common ancestor node (C?
).Calculate  the distance between C1 and C?
(h1),distance C2  and C?
(h2).6. if  h1 > h2 then C1 is the most specific category7.
else if  h1 < h2 then C2 is the most specific183category8.
else C1 & C2 are the most specific categories9.
end;?
Step 4: To find the semantic similarity conceptfor each concept t that is still unknown afterphase 2, we traverse the ontology hierarchy fromits root to find the best node.
We choose the se-mantic similarity that was described as in(Banerjee and Pederson, 2003).
However, we donot use the whole formula.
In particular , we usea similar formula that is specified as follows:Acu_Sim(w, c) = Sim(w, c) + Sim(w, c?
)in which, w is the phrase that needs to be anno-tated, c is the candidate concept and c?
is theconcept that is related to c.At the current node c while traversing, the simi-larity values between t and all children of c arecalculated.
If the maximum of similarity valuesis less than similarity value between t and c, thenc is the best node corresponding to t. Otherwise,continue the procedure with the current node asthe child node with the maximum similarityvalue.
The procedure stops when the best node isfound or it reaches a leaf node.6 EvaluationTo evaluate the result of the proposed model, weuse recall and precision measures that are de-fined as in (Chau & Tuoi, 2007).
In order to testthe model we selected a questions set fromsources on the web as follows:?
TREC (Text REtrieval Conference)(http://trec.nist.gov/data/): TREC-07 (con-sisting of 446 questions); TREC-06 (consist-ing of 492 questions); and TREC-02 (con-sisting of 440 questions).?
The web page www.lexxe.com: consisting of701 questions.After that, the question set (consisting of  2079questions) is translated into a Vietnamese ques-tions set, we called D1 dataset.
All key phrases ofthe D1 dataset are manually extracted by two lin-guists for the quality of the dataset.
Then wehave two versions respectively, V1 and V2.
Theresults of our system is shown as follows:Ver R A Ra Precision RecallV1 3236 3072 2293 74.6% 70.8%V2 3236 3301 2899 89.6% 87.8%Table 1.
Results of Vietnamese key phrase extraction.7 ConclusionWe have proposed an original approach to keyphrase extraction.
It is a hybrid and incrementalprocess for information searching for search en-gines and automatic answer systems in Vietnam-ese.
We achieved precision of around 89.6% forour system.
The experimental results have showthat our method achieves high accuracy.Currently, Wikipedia editions are available forapproximately 253 languages, which means thatour method can be used to build key phrase sys-tems for a large number of languages.
In spite ofthe exploitation of Wikipedia as a Vietnameseontology, our method can be adapted for any on-tology and knowledge base in general.Furthermore, we had to construct all necessarylinguistic resources and define all data structuresfrom scratch, while enjoying some advantagesderived from the many existent methodologiesfor morpho-syntactic annotation and the highconsciousness of a standardization tendency.Specifically, we built a set with 434 noun phrasepatterns and a rules set for Vietnamese keyphrase identification.
Our patterns and rules setcan be easily readjusted and extended.
The re-sults obtained lay the foundation for further re-search in NLP for Vietnamese including textsummarization, information retrieval, informa-tion extraction, etc.ReferencesBunescu, R., Pasca, M. 2006.
Using encyclopedicknowledge for name entity disambiguation.
In Pro-ceedings of the 11th Conference of EACL:9-16.Banerjee S.,Pederson T., 2003.
Extended Gloss Over-laps as a Measure of Semantic Relatedness, In Pro-ceedings of the 18th International Joint Conferenceon Artificial Intelligence (IJCAI-03): 805?810.Chau Q.Nguyen, Tuoi T.Phan.
2007.
A Pattern-basedApproach to Vietnamese Key Phrase Extraction, InAddendum Contributions of the 5th InternationalIEEE Conference on Computer Sciences- RIVF?07:41-46.Chau Q.Nguyen, Tuoi T.Phan.
2006.
A Hybrid Ap-proach to Vietnamese Part-Of-Speech Tagging.
InProceedings of the 9th International Oriental CO-COSDA Conference (O-COCOSDA?06), Malay-sia:157-160.Zesch, T., Gurevych, I.
2007.
Analysis of the Wikipe-dia Category Graph for NLP Applications.
In Pro-ceedings of the TextGraphs-2 Workshop (NAACL-HLT 2007):1?8.184
