Proceedings of the ACL-IJCNLP 2009 Conference Short Papers, pages 5?8,Suntec, Singapore, 4 August 2009. c?2009 ACL and AFNLPBypassed Alignment Graph for Learning Coordination in JapaneseSentencesHideharu Okuma Kazuo Hara Masashi Shimbo Yuji MatsumotoGraduate School of Information ScienceNara Institute of Science and TechnologyIkoma, Nara 630-0192, Japan{okuma.hideharu01,kazuo-h,shimbo,matsu}@is.naist.jpAbstractPast work on English coordination has fo-cused on coordination scope disambigua-tion.
In Japanese, detecting whether coor-dination exists in a sentence is also a prob-lem, and the state-of-the-art alignment-based method specialized for scope dis-ambiguation does not perform well onJapanese sentences.
To take the detectionof coordination into account, this paper in-troduces a ?bypass?
to the alignment graphused by this method, so as to explicitlyrepresent the non-existence of coordinatestructures in a sentence.
We also presentan effective feature decomposition schemebased on the distance between words inconjuncts.1 IntroductionCoordination remains one of the challenging prob-lems in natural language processing.
One keycharacteristic of coordination explored in the pastis the structural and semantic symmetry of con-juncts (Chantree et al, 2005; Hogan, 2007;Resnik, 1999).
Recently, Shimbo and Hara (2007)proposed to use a large number of features tomodel this symmetry, and optimize the featureweights with perceptron training.
These featuresare assigned to the arcs of the alignment graph (oredit graph) originally developed for biological se-quence alignment.Coordinate structure analysis involves two re-lated but different tasks:1.
Detect the presence of coordinate structure ina sentence (or a phrase).2.
Disambiguate the scope of coordinations inthe sentences/phrases detected in Task 1.The studies on English coordination listedabove are concerned mainly with scope disam-biguation, reflecting the fact that detecting thepresence of coordinations in a sentence (Task 1)is straightforward in English.
Indeed, nearly 100%precision and recall can be achieved in Task 1 sim-ply by pattern matching with a small number ofcoordination markers such as ?and,?
?or,?
and ?aswell as?.In Japanese, on the other hand, detecting coor-dination is non-trivial.
Many of the coordinationmarkers in Japanese are ambiguous and do not al-ways indicate the presence of coordinations.
Com-pare sentences (1) and (2) below:rondon to pari ni itta(London) (and) (Paris) (to) (went)(I went to London and Paris)(1)kanojo to pari ni itta(her) (with) (Paris) (to) (went)(I went to Paris with her)(2)These sentences differ only in the first word.
Bothcontain a particle to, which is one of the most fre-quent coordination markers in Japanese?but onlythe first sentence contains a coordinate structure.Pattern matching with particle to thus fails to filterout sentence (2).Shimbo and Hara?s model allows a sentencewithout coordinations to be represented as a nor-mal path in the alignment graph, and in theory itcan cope with Task 1 (detection).
In practice, therepresentation is inadequate when a large numberof training sentences do not contain coordinations,as demonstrated in the experiments of Section 4.This paper presents simple yet effective modi-fications to the Shimbo-Hara model to take coor-dination detection into account, and solve Tasks 1and 2 simultaneously.5apolicemanandwarehouseguarda policemanandwarehouseguardapolicemanandwarehouseguarda policemanandwarehouseguard(a) Alignment graph (b) Path 1apolicemanandwarehouseguarda policemanandwarehouseguardapolicemanandwarehouseguarda policemanandwarehouseguard(c) Path 2 (d) Path 3 (no coordination)Figure 1: Alignment graph for ?a policeman andwarehouse guard?
((a)), and example paths repre-senting different coordinate structure ((b)?
(d)).2 Alignment-based coordinate structureanalysisWe first describe Shimbo and Hara?s method uponwhich our improvements are made.2.1 Triangular alignment graphThe basis of their method is a triangular align-ment graph, illustrated in Figure 1(a).
Kurohashiand Nagao (1994) used a similar data structure intheir rule-based method.
Given an input sentence,the rows and columns of its alignment graph areassociated with the words in the sentence.
Un-like the alignment graph used in biological se-quence alignment, the graph is triangular becausethe same sentence is associated with rows andcolumns.
Three types of arcs are present in thegraph.
A diagonal arc denotes coordination be-tween the word above the arc and the one on theright; the horizontal and vertical arcs representskipping of respective words.Coordinate structure in a sentence is repre-sented by a complete path starting from the top-left (initial) node and arriving at the bottom-right(terminal) node in its alignment graph.
Each arcin this path is labeled either Inside or Outside de-pending on whether its span is part of coordina-tion or not; i.e., the horizontal and vertical spansof an Inside segment determine the scope of twoconjuncts.
Figure 1(b)?
(d) depicts example paths.Inside and Outside arcs are depicted by solid anddotted lines, respectively.
Figure 1(b) shows apath for coordination between ?policeman?
(ver-tical span of the Inside segment) and ?warehouseguard?
(horizontal span).
Figure 1(c) is for ?po-liceman?
and ?warehouse.?
Non-existence of co-ordinations in a sentence is represented by theOutside-only path along the top and the rightmostborders of the graph (Figure 1(d)).With this encoding of coordinations as paths,coordinate structure analysis can be reduced tofinding the highest scoring path in the graph,where the score of an arc is given by a measureof how much two words are likely to be coordi-nated.
The goal is to build a measure that assignsthe highest score to paths denoting the correct co-ordinate structure.
Shimbo and Hara defined thismeasure as a linear function of many features as-sociated to arcs, and used perceptron training tooptimize the weight coefficients for these featuresfrom corpora.2.2 FeaturesFor the description of features used in our adap-tation of the Shimbo-Hara model to Japanese, see(Okuma et al, 2009).
In this model, all featuresare defined as indicator functions asking whetherone or more attributes (e.g., surface form, part-of-speech) take specific values at the neighbor of anarc.
One example of a feature assigned to a diag-onal arc at row i and column j of the alignmentgraph isf =??
?1 if POS[i] = Noun, POS[ j] = Adjective,and the label of the arc is Inside,0 otherwise.where POS[i] denotes the part-of-speech of the ithword in a sentence.3 ImprovementsWe introduce two modifications to improve theperformance of Shimbo and Hara?s model inJapanese coordinate structure analysis.3.1 Bypassed alignment graphsIn their model, a path for a sentence with no coor-dination is represented as a series of Outside arcsas we saw in Figure 1(d).
However, Outside arcsalso appear in partial paths between two coordina-tions, as illustrated in Figure 2.
Thus, two differ-6AandBareXandYA andB areX andYFigure 2: Original alignment graph for sentencewith two coordinations.
Notice that Outside (dot-ted) arcs connect two coordinationsFigure 3: alignment graph with a ?bypass?ent roles are given to Outside arcs in the originalShimbo-Hara model.We identify this to be a cause of their model notperforming well for Japanese, and propose to aug-ment the original alignment graph with a ?bypass?devoted to explicitly indicate that no coordinationexists in a sentence; i.e., we add a special path di-rectly connecting the initial node and the terminalnode of an alignment graph.
See Figure 3 for il-lustration of a bypass.In the new model, if the score of the paththrough the bypass is higher than that of any pathsin the original alignment graph, the input sentenceis deemed not containing coordinations.We assign to the bypass two types of featurescapturing the characteristics of a whole sentence;i.e., indicator functions of sentence length, and ofthe existence of individual particles in a sentence.The weight of these features, which eventually de-termines the score of the bypass, is tuned by per-ceptron just like the weights of other features.3.2 Making features dependent on thedistance between conjunctsCoordinations of different type (e.g., nominal andverbal) have different relevant features, as well asdifferent average conjunct length (e.g., nominalcoordinations are shorter).This observation leads us to our second modi-fication: to make all features dependent on theiroccurring positions in the alignment graph.
To beprecise, for each individual feature in the originalmodel, a new feature is introduced which dependson whether the Manhattan distance d in the align-ment graph between the position of the feature oc-currence and the nearest diagonal exceeds a fixedthreshold1 ?
.
For instance, if a feature f is an in-dicator function of condition X , a new feature f ?
isintroduced such thatf ?
={1, if d ?
?
and condition X holds,0, otherwise.Accordingly, different weights are learned and as-sociated to two features f and f ?.
Notice that theManhattan distance to the nearest diagonal is equalto the distance between word pairs to which thefeature is assigned, which in turn is a rough esti-mate of the length of conjuncts.This distance-based decomposition of featuresallows different feature weights to be learned forcoordinations with conjuncts shorter than or equalto ?
, and those which are longer.4 Experimental setupWe applied our improved model and Shimbo andHara?s original model to the EDR corpus (EDR,1995).
We also ran the Kurohashi-Nagao parser(KNP) 2.02, a widely-used Japanese dependencyparser to which Kurohashi and Nagao?s (1994)rule-based coordination analysis method is builtin.
For comparison with KNP, we focus on bun-setsu-level coordinations.
A bunsetsu is a chunkformed by a content word followed by zero ormore non-content words like particles.4.1 DatasetThe Encyclopedia section of the EDR corpus wasused for evaluation.
In this corpus, each sentenceis segmented into words and is accompanied by asyntactic dependency tree, and a semantic framerepresenting semantic relations among words.A coordination is indicated by a specific relationof type ?and?
in the semantic frame.
The scope ofconjuncts (where a conjunct may be a word, or aseries of words) can be obtained by combining thisinformation with that of the syntactic tree.
Thedetail of this procedure can be found in (Okuma etal., 2009).1We use ?
= 5 in the experiments of Section 4.2http://nlp.kuee.kyoto-u.ac.jp/nl-resource/knp-e.html7Table 1: Accuracy of coordination scopes and end of conjuncts, averaged over five-fold cross validation.The numbers in brackets are the improvements (in points) relative to the Shimbo-Hara (SH) method.Scope of coordinations End of conjunctsMethod Precision Recall F1 measure Precision Recall F1 measureKNP n/a n/a n/a 58.8 65.3 61.9 (?2.6)Shimbo and Hara?s method (SH; baseline) 53.7 49.8 51.6 (?0.0) 67.0 62.1 64.5 (?0.0)SH + distance-based feature decomposition 55.3 52.1 53.6 (+2.0) 68.3 64.3 66.2 (+1.7)SH + distance-based feature decomposition + bypass 55.0 57.6 56.3 (+4.7) 66.8 69.9 68.3 (+3.8)Of 10,072 sentences in the Encyclopedia sec-tion, 5,880 sentences contain coordinations.
Weexcluded 1,791 sentences in which nested coordi-nations occur, as these cannot be processed withShimbo and Hara?s method (with or without ourimprovements).We then applied Japanese morphological ana-lyzer JUMAN 5.1 to segment each sentence intowords and annotate them with parts-of-speech,and KNP with option ?-bnst?
to transform the se-ries of words into a bunsetsu series.
With thisprocessing, each word-level coordination pair isalso translated into a bunsetsu pair, unless theword-level pair is concatenated into a single bun-setsu (sub-bunsetsu coordination).
Removing sub-bunsetsu coordinations and obvious annotation er-rors left us with 3,257 sentences with bunsetsu-level coordinations.
Combined with the 4,192 sen-tences not containing coordinations, this amountsto 7,449 sentences used for our evaluation.4.2 Evaluation metricsKNP outputs dependency structures in Kyoto Cor-pus format (Kurohashi et al, 2000) which spec-ifies the end of coordinating conjuncts (bunsetsusequences) but not their beginning.Hence two evaluation criteria were employed:(i) correctness of coordination scopes3 (for com-parison with Shimbo-Hara), and (ii) correctness ofthe end of conjuncts (for comparison with KNP).We report precision, recall and F1 measure, withthe main performance index being F1 measure.5 ResultsTable 1 summarizes the experimental results.Even Shimbo and Hara?s original method (SH)outperformed KNP.
KNP tends to output too manycoordinations, yielding a high recall but low pre-cision.
By contrast, SH outputs a smaller number3A coordination scope is deemed correct only if the brack-eting of constituent conjuncts are all correct.of coordinations; this yields a high precision but alow recall.The distance-based feature decomposition ofSection 3.2 gave +2.0 points improvement over theoriginal SH in terms of F1 measure in coordinationscope detection.
Adding bypasses to alignmentgraphs further improved the performance, makinga total of +4.7 points in F1 over SH; recall signifi-cantly improved, with precision remaining mostlyintact.
Finally, the improved model (SH + decom-position + bypass) achieved an F1 measure +6.4points higher than that of KNP in terms of end-of-conjunct identification.ReferencesF.
Chantree, A. Kilgarriff, A. de Roeck, and A. Willis.2005.
Disambiguating coordinations using worddistribution information.
In Proc.
5th RANLP.EDR, 1995.
The EDR dictionary.
NICT.
http://www2.nict.go.jp/r/r312/EDR/index.html.D.
Hogan.
2007.
Coordinate noun phrase disambigua-tion in a generative parsing model.
In Proc.
45thACL, pages 680?687.S.
Kurohashi and M. Nagao.
1994.
A syntactic analy-sis method of long Japanese sentences based on thedetection of conjunctive structures.
Comput.
Lin-guist., 20:507?534.S.
Kurohashi, Y. Igura, and M. Sakaguchi, 2000.
An-notation manual for a morphologically and sytac-tically tagged corpus, Ver.
1.8.
Kyoto Univ.
InJapanese.
http://nlp.kuee.kyoto-u.ac.jp/nl-resource/corpus/KyotoCorpus4.0/doc/syn guideline.pdf.H.
Okuma, M. Shimbo, K. Hara, and Y. Matsumoto.2009.
Bypassed alignment graph for learning coor-dination in Japanese sentences: supplementary ma-terials.
Tech.
report, Grad.
School of InformationScience, Nara Inst.
Science and Technology.
http://isw3.naist.jp/IS/TechReport/report-list.html#2009.P.
Resnik.
1999.
Semantic similarity in a taxonomy.
J.Artif.
Intel.
Res., 11:95?130.M.
Shimbo and K. Hara.
2007.
A discriminative learn-ing model for coordinate conjunctions.
In Proc.2007 EMNLP/CoNLL, pages 610?619.8
