Proceedings of the ACL-IJCNLP 2009 Conference Short Papers, pages 205?208,Suntec, Singapore, 4 August 2009. c?2009 ACL and AFNLPAutomatic Compilation of Travel Informationfrom Automatically Identified Travel BlogsHidetsugu anbaGraduate School of InformationSciences, Hiroshima City Universitynanba@hiroshima-cu.ac.jpHaruka TagumaSchool of Information Sciences,Hiroshima City UniversityTakahiro OzakiSchool of Information Sciences,Hiroshima City UniversityDaisuke KobayashiGraduate School of Information Sciences,Hiroshima City Universitykobayashi@ls.info.hiroshima-cu.ac.jpAya IshinoGraduate School of InformationSciences, Hiroshima City Universityishino@ls.info.hiroshima-cu.ac.jpToshiyuki TakezawaGraduate School of Information Sciences,Hiroshima City Universitytakezawa@hiroshima-cu.ac.jpAbstractIn this paper, we propose a method for compilingtravel information automatically.
For the compi-lation, we focus on travel blogs, which are de-fined as travel journals written by bloggers indiary form.
We consider that travel blogs are auseful information source for obtaining travelinformation, because many bloggers' travel expe-riences are written in this form.
Therefore, weidentified travel blogs in a blog database and ex-tracted travel information from them.
We haveconfirmed the effectiveness of our method byexperiment.
For the identification of travel blogs,we obtained scores of 38.1% for Recall and86.7% for Precision.
In the extraction of travelinformation from travel blogs, we obtained74.0% for Precision at the top 100 extracted localproducts, thereby confirming that travel blogs area useful source of travel information.1 IntroductionTravel guidebooks and portal sites provided bytour companies and governmental tourist boardsare useful sources of information about travel.However, it is costly and time consuming tocompile travel information for all tourist spotsand to keep them up to date manually.
Thereforewe have studied the automatic compilation oftravel information.For the compilation, we focused on travelblogs, which are defined as travel journals writ-ten by bloggers in diary form.
Travel blogs areconsidered a useful information source for ob-taining travel information, because many blog-gers' travel experiences are written in this form.Therefore, we identified travel blogs in a blogdatabase, and extracted travel information fromthem.Travel information in travel blogs is also use-ful for recommending information that ismatched to the each traveler.
Recently, severalmethods that identify bloggers' attributes such asresidential area (Yasuda et al, 2006), gender,and age (Ikeda et al, 2008, Schler et al, 2006),have been proposed.
By combining this researchwith travel information extracted from travelblogs, it is possible to recommend a local prod-uct that is popular among females, for example,or a travel spot, where young people often visit.The remainder of this paper is organized asfollows.
Section 2 describes related work.
Sec-tion 3 describes our method.
To investigate theeffectiveness of our method, we conducted someexperiments, and Section 4 reports the experi-mental results.
We present some conclusions inSection 5.2 Related WorkBoth 'www.travelblog.org' and'travel.blogmura.com' are portal sites for travelblogs.
At these sites, travel blogs are manuallyregistered by bloggers themselves, and the blogsare classified by their destinations.
However,there are many more travel blogs in the blogos-205phere.
Aiming to construct an exhaustive data-base of travel blogs, we have studied the auto-matic identification of travel blogs.GeoCLEF 1  is the cross-language geographicretrieval track run as part of the Cross LanguageEvaluation Forum (CLEF), and has been operat-ing since 2005 (Gey et al, 2005).
The goal ofthis task was to retrieve news articles relevant toparticular aspects of geographic information,such as 'wine regions around the rivers in Eu-rope'.
In our work, we focused on travel blogsinstead of news articles, because bloggers' travelexperiences tend to be written in travel blogs.3 Automatic Compilation of Travel In-formationThe task of compiling travel information is di-vided into two steps: (1) identification of travelblogs and (2) extraction of travel informationfrom them.
We explain these steps in Sections3.1 and 3.2.3.1 Identification of Travel BlogsBlog entries that contain cue phrases, such as'travel', 'sightseeing', or 'tour', have a high degreeof probability of being travel blogs.
However,not every travel blog contains such cue phrases.For example, if a blogger writes his/her journeyto Norway in multiple blog entries, it might state'We traveled to Norway' in the first entry, whileonly writing 'We ate wild sheep!'
in the secondentry.
In this case, because the second entry doesnot contain any expressions related to travel, it isdifficult to identify that the second entry is a tra-vel blog.
Therefore, we focus not only on eachentry but also on its surrounding entries for theidentification of travel blogs.We formulated the identification of travelblogs as a sequence-labeling problem, and solvedit using machine learning.
For the machine learn-ing method, we examined the Conditional Ran-dom Fields (CRF) method, whose empirical suc-cess has been reported recently in the field ofnatural language processing.
The CRF-based me-thod identifies the class of each entry.
Featuresand tags are given in the CRF method as follows:(1) the k tags occur before a target entry, (2) kfeatures occur before a target entry, and (3) kfeatures follow a target entry (see Figure 1).
Weused the value of k=4, which was determined in apilot study.
Here, we used the following featuresfor machine learning: whether an entry contains1 http://ir.shef.ac.uk/geoclef/each 416 cue phrase, such as '??
(travel)', '???
(tour)', and '??
(departure)', and thenumber of location names in each entry2.tag 0 0 1[cue phrase] (416 in total)1: contain, 0:not containtravel 0 1 1 0 0 1 0tour 0 0 0 1 1 1 0departure 0 0 1 0 0 1 0train 1 0 1 0 1 1 1visited 0 0 1 1 1 1 0Figure 1: Features and tags given to the CRF3.2 Extraction of Travel Information fromBlogsWe extracted pairs comprising a location nameand a local product from travel blogs, whichwere identified in the previous step.
For the effi-cient extraction of travel information, we em-ployed a bootstrapping method.
Firstly, we pre-pared 482 location-name/and local-product pairsas seeds for the bootstrapping.
These pairs wereobtained automatically from a 'Web Japanese N-gram' database 3  provided by Google, Inc. Thedatabase comprises N-grams (N=1?7) extractedfrom 20 billion of Japanese sentences on the web.We applied a pattern '[??]???[??]?
'([slot of 'location name'] local product ?
[slot of'local product name']?)
to the database, and ex-tracted location names and local products fromeach corresponding slot, thereby obtaining the482 pairs.Secondly, we applied a machine learning-based information extraction technique to thetravel blogs identified in the previous step, andobtained new pairs.
In this step, we prepared2 We used CaboCha software for the identification oflocations.http://chasen.org/~taku/software/cabocha/3 http://www.gsk.or.jp/catalog/GSK2007-C/catalog.htmlreturntraveltraveldepartureblog entrieskparsing directiontarget206training data for the machine learning in the fol-lowing three steps.1.
Select 200 sentences that contain both a lo-cation name and a local product from the482 pairs.
Then automatically create 200tagged sentences, to which 'location' and'product' tags are assigned.2.
Prepare another 200 sentences that containonly a location name.
4  Then create 200tagged sentences, to which the 'location' tagis assigned.3.
Apply machine learning to the 400 taggedsentences, and obtain a system that automat-ically annotates 'location' and 'product' tagsto given sentences.As a machine learning method, we used the CRF.In the same way as in the previous step, theCRF-based method identifies the class of eachword in a given sentence.
Features and tags aregiven in the CRF method as follows: (1) the ktags occur before a target word, (2) k featuresoccur before a target word, and (3) k featuresfollow a target word.
We used the value of k=2,which was determined in a pilot study.
We usethe following six features for machine learning. A word. Its part of speech5. Whether the word is a quotation mark. Whether the word is a cue word, such as '??
', '??
', '?? '
(local product), '??
'(famous confection), or '??'
(souvenir). Whether the word is a surface case. Whether the word is frequently used in thenames of local products or souvenirs, suchas 'cake' or 'noodle'.4 ExperimentsWe conducted two experiments: (1) identifica-tion of travel blogs, and (2) extraction of travelinformation from blogs.
We reported on them inSections 4.1 and 4.2.4.1 Identification of Travel BlogsData sets and experimental settings4 In our pilot study, we did not use these negative cas-es in machine learning at first, and obtained low pre-cision values, because our system attempted to extractlocal products from all sentences containing locationnames in travel blogs.5 In this step, we also identified location names auto-matically using the CaboCha software.We randomly selected 4,914 blog entries writtenby 317 authors from about 1,100,000 entrieswritten in Japanese.
Then we manually identifiedtravel blogs in 4,914 entries.
As a result, 420 en-tries were identified as travel blogs.
Then weperformed a four-fold cross-validation test.
Forthe machine-learning package, we used CRF++6software.
For evaluation measures, we used Re-call and Precision scores.AlternativesIn order to confirm the validity of our sequencelabeling-based approach, we also examinedanother method, which identifies travel blogsusing features in each blog entry only (withoutusing features in its surrounding entries).Results and discussionsTable 1 shows the experimental results.
Asshown in the table, our method improved thePrecision value by 26.2%, while decreasing theRecall value by 13.0%.
In our research, Precisionis more important than Recall, because low Pre-cision in this step causes low Precision in thenext step.Recall Precisionour method 38.1 86.7baseline method 51.1 60.5Table 1: Identification of travel blogsOur method could not identify 266 of the tra-vel blogs.
We randomly selected 50 entries fromthese 266, and analysed the errors.
Among the 50errors, 25 cases (50%) were caused by the lack ofcue phrases.
For the machine learning, we usedmanually selected cue phrases.
To increase thenumber of cue phrases, a statistical approach willbe required.
For example, applying n-grams toautomatically identified travel blogs is one suchapproach.
Among the 50 errors, 5 entries (10%)were too short (fewer than four sentences) to beidentified by our method.Our method mistakenly identified 26 entries astravel blogs.
A typical error is that bloggerswrote non-travel entries among a series of travelblogs.
In this case, the non-travel entries wereidentified as travel blogs.4.2 Extraction of Travel Information fromBlogsData sets and experimental settingsTo confirm that travel blogs are a useful informa-tion source for the extraction of travel informa-tion, we extracted travel information using thefollowing three information sources.6 http://www.chasen.org/~taku/software/CRF++/207 Travel blogs (our method): 80,000 sen-tences in 17,268 travel blogs, which wereautomatically identified from 1,100,000 en-tries using the method described in Section3.1. Generic blogs: 80,000 sentences from1,100,000 blog entries. Generic webs: 80,000 sentences from470M web sentences (Kawahara and Kuro-hashi, 2006).We extracted travel information (location-name/local-product pairs) from each informationsource, and ranked them by their frequencies.EvaluationWe used the Precision value for the top-rankedtravel information defined by the following equa-tion as the evaluation measure.
We calculatedPrecision values from the top 5 to the top 100 atintervals of 5.Precision=The number of correctly extractedlocation-name / local-productpairsThe number of extractedlocation-name / local-productpairsResults and discussionsFigure 2 shows the experimental results.
Asshown in the figure, the generic blog method ob-tained higher Precision values than the genericweb method, especially at higher ranks.
Our me-thod (travel blog) was much better than the ge-neric blog method, which indicates that travelblogs are a useful information source for the ex-traction of travel information.Figure 2: Precision values at top n for the extractionof travel informationTable 2 shows the number of local products,which were not contained in a list of productsfrom the Google N-gram database.
As shown inthe table, 41 local products were newly extractedfrom travel blogs, while 15 and 7 were extractedfrom generic blogs and generic webs, respective-ly.
These results also indicate the effectiveness oftravel blogs as a source for travel information.A typical error among the top 100 results forour method was that store names were mistaken-ly extracted.
Here, most of these stores sell localproducts.
To ameliorate this problem, extractionof pairs of local products and the stores that sellthem is also required.travel blog (our method) 41generic blog 15generic web 7Table 2: The number of local products that each me-thod newly extracted5 ConclusionIn this paper, we proposed a method for identify-ing travel blogs from a blog database, and ex-tracting travel information from them.
In theidentification of travel blogs, we obtained of38.1% for Recall and 86.7% for Precision.
In theextraction of travel information from travel blogs,we obtained 74.0% for Precision with the top100 extracted local products.ReferencesFredric C. Gey, Ray R. Larson, Mark Sanderson, Hi-deo Joho, Paul Clough, and Vivien Petras.
2005.GeoCLEF: The CLEF 2005 Cross-Language Geo-graphic Information Retrieval Track Overview.Lecture otes in Computer Science, LNCS4022,pp.908-919.Daisuke Ikeda, Hiroya Takamura, and Manabu Oku-mura.
2008.
Semi-Supervised Learning for BlogClassification.
Proceedings of the 23rd AAAI Confe-rence on Artificial Intelligence, pp.1156-1161.Daisuke Kawahara and Sadao Kurohashi.
2006.
AFully-Lexicalized Probabilistic Model for JapaneseSyntactic and Case Structure Analysis.
Proceedingsof the Human Language Technology Conference ofthe orth American Chapter of the Association forComputational Linguistics, pp.176-183.Jonathan Schler, Moshe Koppel, Shlomo Argamon,and James Pennebaker.
2006.
Effects of age andgender on blogging.
Proceedings of AAAI Sympo-sium on Computational Approaches for AnalyzingWeblogs, pp.199-205.Norihito Yasuda, Tsutomu Hirao, Jun Suzuki, andHideki Isozaki.
2006.
Identifying bloggers' residen-tial areas.
Proceedings of AAAI Spring Symposiumon Computational Approaches for Analyzing Web-logs, pp.231-236.00.20.40.60.815 15 25 35 45 55 65 75 85 95PrecisionPrecisionPrecisionPrecisionTop ntravel blog generic bloggeneric web208
