Proceedings of the 47th Annual Meeting of the ACL and the 4th IJCNLP of the AFNLP, pages 629?637,Suntec, Singapore, 2-7 August 2009. c?2009 ACL and AFNLPThe Chinese Aspect Generation Based on Aspect Selection FunctionsGuowen YangThe Institute of linguisticsChinese Academy of Social Sciences5 Jianguomennei Dajie, 100732 BeijingP.R.ChinaJohn A. BatemanFB10, Sprach und LiteraturwissenschaftenBremen University28334 Germanybateman@uni-bremen.dekybeijing@yahoo.comAbstractThis paper describes our system for generatingChinese aspect expressions.
In the system, thesemantics of different aspects is characterizedby specific temporal and conceptual features.The semantic applicability conditions of eachindividual aspect are theoretically representedby an aspect selection function (ASF).
Thegeneration is realized by evaluatingimplemented inquiries which formally definethe ASFs, traversing the grammatical network,and making aspect selections.1   IntroductionAspect is one of the most controversial topicsamong linguists and philosophers.
Unlike thefunction of tense, which relates the time ofsituation to a deictic center, aspects are differentways of viewing the states of a situation withrespect to the situation?s internal temporalconstituency (Yang, 2007).
This paper describesour system for generating Chinese aspectexpressions.
The aspect forms covered in thepresent research were derived from a corpusanalysis.
The main task of the aspect researchfrom a computational perspective is toimplement computationally both the semanticinterpretations and the grammatical realizationsof aspects as formulated in theoretical work.
Thetheoretical principle of this is, to a large extent,based on Montague?s intensional logic(Montague, 1970; Dowty, 1979; Bestougeff andLigozat, 1992, Portner and Partee, 2002).
It isheld that the goal of semantics is to present thetruth conditions for each well formed sentence.In previous studies there are some fruitfulexperiments on computationally processingtemporal information in Chinese, e.g.
Lee andHsu?s Chinese to English machine translationsystem (1990), Li, Wong, and Yuan?s temporalinformation-extraction system (2001), Xue?smachine learning system (2008), and Xue, Zhong& Chen?s tense annotation system (2008).However, a systematic investigation, includingthe implementation of the semantics of aspects,has rarely been carried out before and is one ofthe main contributions of the present research.Aspects are determined by both situation types,which build specific situation structures, andparticular viewpoints that construct specifictemporal relations between the viewing pointsand the internal temporal constituencies ofsituations.
These two kinds of factors, whichinfluence aspect selections, can be characterizedby aspectual features.
This makes it possible forus to use a function which takes relevant timepoints and concepts as its parameters and?calculates?
the truth value of the semanticapplicability conditions of a specific aspect inorder to make a corresponding aspect selection inlanguage generation.
We term this function theAspect Selection Function (ASF).
The ASFs areused for the theoretical descriptions of theaspects and, at the same time, they are the basisfor our computational implementation of thesemantics of the aspects.Our system has been implemented as agrammar for the KPML multilingual generator(Bateman, 1997a, 1997b) which is equipped witha large systemic grammar and all the technicalcomponents required in generation, including aninput component, a traversal component, arealization component, and so on.
This bringsdirect benefits for us in both theoretical andimplementational respects since we could thenfocus on the linguistic treatment of  the Chineseaspects.The paper is organized into five sections.
Inthe next three sections the semantic features ofthe aspects, the aspect selection functions, andthe detailed description of the generation of the629aspects will be given.
Finally in Section 5, wemake a brief conclusion.2   The semantic features of the aspectsOne of the methods adopted in aspect studies isto use semantic features to characterize differentsituations (cf.
Comrie, 1976; Smith, 1991, 1997;Olsen, 1997; and Dai, 1997).
This is also takenas the basic principle in the present research.
Forthe purpose of characterizing the semantics of anaspect, the features needed are not only thosereflecting the properties of situation types, butalso those reflecting the temporal relationsbetween the viewing points and the internaltemporal constituencies of the situations.
Whenwe establish a system of aspects, we say that thefeatures used are necessary and sufficient ifdifferent aspects included can be distinguishedfrom each other by means of these features.Consequently, the more aspect expressions areinvolved, the more aspectual features are needed.Two kinds of aspectual features are proposedin the present research.
One kind of aspectualfeature can be directly represented in terms ofrelations holding over time points.
These aretermed features of temporal relations (FTR).
Forexample, the feature durative, which is used forsituations extended in time, can be representedwith the temporal relation t1<t2 where t1 and t2denote two time points bounding the situation.Similarly, the feature punctual (momentary),which is used for situations theoretically taking amoment, can be formally represented by thetemporal relation t1=t2.There is then a further kind of aspectualfeature which cannot be directly represented bytemporal relations, although they may alsoconcern temporal properties of situations.
Thiskind of feature can only be represented byparameters which serve to provide a conceptualclassification of the situations involved; therefore,they are termed features of conceptual type(FCP), such as dynamic and repeatable.In addition, there is a special kind of aspectualfeature which reflects qualitative properties oftemporal relations: far-precede and shortly-precede.
These two features indicate qualitativedistances between time points; the former meansthat one time point is linearly much beforeanother time point on the time axis; the lattermeans that one time point is only a little beforeanother time point.
In specific context, thesekinds of qualitative properties are reflectedrelatively in comparative or inclusive relationsbetween temporal and spatial scopes of situations.Aspectual features are the basic elements to beused for aspect descriptions.
The range ofaspectual features is not held to be cross-linguistically valid.
In the present research, thefollowing aspectual features are used to describeChinese aspects.
The states of relational typeformed by the verbs like ?
(sh?, be), ?
(y?u,have), ??
(d?ngy?, equal) etc.
are associatedwith relational processes   (Halliday, 1985) andtherefore not included in the features listed.
Inthe following feature definitions, ti refers to theinitial time of a situation, tt the terminating timeof a situation, and tr the reference time of anaspect.
In the present research, we define thereference time as the time from which the stateof a situation with respect to the situation?sinternal temporal constituency is contextuallyexamined.
(1) durative (FTR): describes situationswhich take time.
It is represented by thetemporal relation ti<tt.
(2) punctual (FTR): describes situationswhich theoretically take only a momentof time.
It is formally represented by thetemporal relation ti=tt.
(3) realized (FTR): describes situationswhich have occurred, have existed, orhave shown the property of reality bysome specific time.
It is represented bythe temporal relation tt?tr.
(4) dynamic-state (FCP): describes adurative changing situation.
(5) stative-state (FCP): describes a durativeunchanging situation associated with theactivity meaning of an activity verb.
(6) change-of-state (FCP): indicates eitherthe inception or termination of asituation.
(7) event (FCP): describes a dynamicsituation viewed as a complete whole(Comrie, 1976, p.13) and is aspectuallyassociated with the occurrence, takingplace, or completion of the situation.
(8) repeatable (FCP): describes situationswhich can occur repeatedly.
(9) specific (FCP): when a time point isspecific, it has a particular position onthe time axis which can be determinedfrom context.
(10) unspecific (FCP): when a time point isunspecific, its position on the time axisis unknown.630(11) far-precede (FCP): indicates aqualitative distance, one end point ofwhich is linearly much before anotherend point.
(12) shortly-precede (FCP): indicates aqualitative distance, one end point ofwhich is linearly a little before anotherend point.
(13) excluded (FCP): when one of the endpoints of a time interval has the featureexcluded, the time interval is open atthat point.
(14) included (FCP): when one of the endpoints of a time interval has the featureincluded, the time interval is closed atthat point.Concerning the opening and closure of a timeinterval at its end points, two principles areproposed by the present research.
The openingand closure of a time interval at its end pointscan be determined according to the followingprinciples, which we term exclusivenessprinciples (ELPs):ELP (1) For the initial time ti: when theinitial time ti of the situation is specific,then the time interval at the initial time tiis considered closed; when the initialtime ti of the situation is unspecific, thenthe time interval at the initial time ti isconsidered open.ELP (2) For the terminating time tt:when the situation does not hold at theterminating time tt, the time interval isconsidered closed at the terminatingtime; when the situation still holds at theterminating time tt, the time interval isconsidered open at the terminating time.As far as the temporal structures ofaspects are concerned, there is anextreme case: when the terminating timett precedes the reference time tr, in whichcase the time period of the situation isdefinitely closed at the terminating timett.The semantic feature telicity indicating that thesituation referred to has an internal end point (cf.Vendler, 1967; Comrie, 1976) is not used in thepresent research for the Chinese aspectdescriptions.
The feature telicity is not aneffective feature for characterizing Chineseaspects from a language generation point ofview because there is no single aspect of thepresent aspect system that absolutely requiresthat the situations expressed be telic or atelic.3  The aspect selection functionsSpecific features of temporal relations and theconceptual features together build semanticapplicability conditions for each individualaspect.
The semantic applicability conditions arerepresented by the aspect selection function(ASF) of the aspect.
The ASF of a specific aspectassumed by the present research is, therefore,principally composed of two sets of predicates:one set of predicates for testing temporalrelations (Allen, 1984; Yang & Bateman, 2002),another for testing the values, i.e.
conceptualfeatures, of parameters associated with the aspect.All the predicates are connected withconjunctions at the top level.
At the lower levels,the logical relations among the predicates can bea conjunction and, a disjunction or and anegation not.
To evaluate the truth condition ofthe ASF for a specific aspect, the values of allrelevant temporal relations and parameters areevaluated.
When all the predicates are true, i.e.,all of the required conditions are met, the valueof the ASF is true; otherwise, the value of theASF is false.In the predicates of the ASFs, there are twokinds of parameters: temporal parametersassociated with the time points involved in thetemporal structures of the aspects and conceptualparameters associated with the specificconceptual features of the aspects.
Theconceptual features will be taken as values of thecorresponding parameters and represented byEQUAL(p, c), in which ?p?
refers to a parameterand ?c?
refers to the conceptual feature associatedwith that parameter.
Some of the parameters aregiven as follows:(1) STATE-ACTION-PROPERTYp (SAPp):this parameter indicates whether theproperty of the situation is dynamic-state, stative-state, state, or event.
Thesubscript p denotes Process.
(2) CHANGEABILITYp (CBp): thisparameter indicates whether thesituation has the feature change-of-state.
(3) REPEATABILITYp: this parameterindicates whether the situation isrepeatable.
(4) RETRIEVALt (RTt): this parameterindicates whether the time point t isspecific or unspecific.631(5) POSITIONt1-t2: this parameter indicateswhether the time point t1, whichprecedes another time point t2, is muchbefore (far-precede) or a little before(shortly-precede) time point t2.
(6) EXCLUSIVENESSt (EXLt): thisparameter indicates whether the timepoint t, which is one of the end points ofa time interval, has the feature excludedor included.We now take the unmarked-realized (URE)aspect V+?
(V+le) as an example to illustratethe structure of the ASF.
The URE aspect V+?
(V+le) is one of the perfective aspects, serving toindicate  that the occurrence, development, orchange of the situation is realized (notnecessarily complete) by some specific time.
Thetemporal structure of the aspect is shown inFigure 1.ti                               tt=trFigure 1 The temporal structure of the UREaspect V+?
(V+le):{ti, tt}, (ti<tt or ti=tt), tt=tr, RTtr=specificThe temporal structure in Figure 1 is explainedas follows: The situations expressed in the UREaspect can be either punctual, i.e.
ti=tt, ordurative, i.e.
ti<tt.
The time interval of thesituation defined by ?
{ti, tt}?
is either closed oropen at its ends.
The feature realized isrepresented by specifying that the terminatingtime equals the reference time, i.e.
tt=tr, ratherthan that the terminating time either equals orprecedes the reference time, i.e.
tt?tr ?
the latteris the general condition for all perfective aspects.In Figure 1, the case of a punctual situation, i.e.ti=tt, is theoretically taken as a very short timeperiod and not explicitly represented.
RTtrindicates that the reference time tr is a specifictime point.In addition to the temporal relations explainedabove, the URE aspect V+ ?
(V+le) hasprominently three characteristics associated withthe situation properties.
When the URE aspectV+?
(V+le) expresses a durative situation, thesituation can be either a state or an event.
Whenthe process is of relational type, a change of stateshould be emphasized.
When a change of state isinvolved in the situation, the URE aspect V+?
(V+le) focuses on the realization of the event,rather than the resultative state, unless currentrelevance is indicated in context.
These threecharacteristics can be respectively represented bycorresponding conceptual features associatedwith the parameters SAPp, CBp, and PROCESSinvolved in the predicates of the ASF of the UREaspect as shown in Figure 2.
The ASFs are usedfor the purpose of theoretical descriptions, butalso, as we shall see in the next section, give thebasis for the implementation of the semantics ofthe aspects.Fure(ti, tt, tr, RTtr, CBp, SAPp, PROCESS,EXLti, EXLtt) ?
(AND(OR(SAME(ti, tt))(PRECEDE(ti, tt)))(SAME(tt, tr))(EQUAL(RTtr, specific))(OR(EQUAL(EXLti, included))(EQUAL(EXLti, excluded)))(OR(EQUAL(EXLtt, included))(EQUAL(EXLtt, excluded)))(AND(PRECEDE(ti, tt))(OR(EQUAL(SAPp, state))(EQUAL(SAPp, event))))(OR(NOT(EQUAL(PROCESS,relational-process)))(AND(EQUAL(PROCESS,relational-process))(EQUAL(CBp, change-of-state))))(OR(EQUAL(CBp, not-change-of-state))(AND(EQUAL(CBp, change-of-state))(EQUAL(SAPp, event)))))Figure 2 The ASF of the URE aspectV+?
(V+le)4 The generation of the aspect expressions4.1  Inquiries, choosers, and the input  specifi-cationsThe present research uses the multilingualgenerator KPML as its implementation platformand takes Systemic Functional Grammar (SFG)as its theoretical basis.
Fourteen primary simpleaspects,  and twenty-six complex aspects areorganized into a hierarchical system network.
Ina system network, grammatical units areconstructed by corresponding traversals of thatnetwork.
Each path through the network from theroot to an end node corresponds to a specificlanguage expression.
If we need to produce aspecific expression, semantically appropriatechoices need to be made so as to follow a path632leading to the creation of that expression.
Thesystem is guided by the joint actions of theinquiries and choosers of the system (Fawcett,1987; Matthiessen and Bateman, 1991; Bateman,2000; Yang & Bateman, 2002).
?A chooser isstraightforwardly represented as a ?decision tree?with a particular kind of inquiry, called abranching inquiry, forming the decision points?
(Bateman 1997c, p.20).
Inquiries are responsiblefor finding the answers required by choosers byaccessing semantic information represented ininput specifications, written in the form of theSentence Plan Language (SPL) (Kasper, 1989;Bateman, 1997a), and in the knowledge base ofthe system.The semantics of an aspect associated with asentence to be generated is represented in theinput specification.
The time points involved inthe temporal structure of the aspect to begenerated, i.e.
the initial time, the terminatingtime, and the reference time(s), are presentedwith specific time values in the inputspecification.
The speaking time has a defaultvalue corresponding to the present moment.
Allthe parameters characterizing the conceptualfeatures of the aspect to be generated are alsoincluded in the input specification.The implemented inquiries, written in LISP,play a crucial role in the generation of the aspectexpressions.
The implemented inquiriesassociated with different types of aspectsformally define the semantic applicabilityconditions represented by the ASFs of theaspects.
Each implemented inquiry has a set ofparameters with specific values to representtemporal relations and conceptual features of aspecific aspect.
The inquiry is composed of a setof predicates which will have the value T whenthe conditions defined are satisfied.
The truthcondition of an inquiry will be met only when allthe predicates involved have the value T. Hence,evaluating an implemented inquiry refers to theprocess of testing the truth conditions of all thepredicates  involved in  the  inquiry according  tothe semantic information represented in thecorresponding input specification.In the implemented inquiries, two basicpredicates PRECEDE(t1, t2) and SAME(t1, t2) areused to test temporal relations involved in thesemantic applicability conditions of differentaspects.
In the generation, the parameters t1 andt2, are replaced with the values of the initial timeti, the terminating time tt, or the reference time tr,which are given in the input specifications.Logically, given a specific context, theprecedence of two points can be determined interms of concepts PAST, PRESENT, andFUTURE with reference to a relative deicticcenter.
To evaluate the precedence between twotime points,  nine different time values aredefined on the time axis as shown in Figure 3.
InFigure 3, the values at-past-present, at-present,and at-future-present correspond to three timepoints.
The other six values correspond tospecific intervals on the time axis.
The timepoints within each interval are given a specifictime value, as shown below, where ?-??
standsfor the infinite past, and ?+??
stands for theinfinite future:(-?, at-present) = at-past;(at-present, +?)
= at-future;(-?, at-past-present) = at-past-past;(at-past-present, at-present) = at-past-future;(at-present, at-future-present) = at-future-past;(at-future-present, +?)
= at-future-future.The nine qualitative time values defined abovebuild a calculating system for time comparison inthe present research.
To generate a specificaspect, i.e., from semantics to the surfaceexpression of the aspect, what we need to do is todistribute each time point involved in thetemporal structure of the aspect with one of thequalitative time values and to establishappropriate temporal relations between them asto be illustrated in the next section.at-past                                at-futureat-past-past            at-past-future             at-future-past            at-future-futureat-past-present              at-present             at-future-presentFigure 3 Nine qualitative values of time on the time axis6334.2 An example of generating the aspectexpressionsIn this section we illustrate the generationprocess with an example.
We focus on thegeneration of the aspect expressions and ignorethe generation process for the other sentenceconstituents.
Because of the limitation of inputassociated with relevant files in theimplementation, we use numbers 1, 2, 3, and 4 torefer to the four tones of Chinese characters in allthe realization statements.
For instance, wang1,wang2, wang3, and wang4 refer to w?ng, w?ng,w?ng, and w?ng respectively.
The neutral tone isnot marked by numbers.In the present case, the semantics representedin the input specification is set for the situationthat ?zhe4 sou1 chuan2 jin1tian1 zhuang1yun4 leyi1 liang4 you3 gu4zhang4 de ka3che1?
(Theship loaded an inoperative truck today).
Thesituation happened at a specific time today(jin1tian1) and was finished before the speakingtime, i.e., the present moment.
The situationrefers to an event rather than a state.
The processof loading the truck took a period of time; andthe realization of the situation is focused.
Ouraim now is to generate an appropriate aspectexpression for this particular loading situation byapplying the semantic information represented inthe input specification.The aspect-related semantic information in theinput specification is as follows.
Because thesituation was finished before the present moment,we can consider that both the initial time ti andthe terminating time tt precede the presentmoment.
Because the situation took a period oftime, the initial time ti is regarded as precedingthe terminating time tt.
Because the realization ofthe situation is focused, the reference time tr isconsidered as being located at the terminatingtime.
Representing these temporal relations withour qualitative time values illustrated in Figure 3,we have the following: SPEAKINGTIME hasthe value at-present which is a default value.REFERENCETIME has the value at-past-futureand is a specific time point.
INITIALTIME, withrespect to other relevant times, has the value at-past-past, indicating the occurrence time of thesituation.
The value of TERMINATINGTIMEequals that of REFERENCETIME, i.e.
at-past-future.
This means that the state of the situationindicated by the aspect to be generated is viewedfrom the terminating time.
Theoretically, thereference time of an aspect, i.e., the viewingpoint of the aspect, establishes specific temporalrelations with the internal temporal constituencyof the situation reflecting what the speakerfocuses on when s/he views the state of asituation.
In our present case, the reference timeis placed at the terminating time of the situation,indicating that the speaker?s focus is on thetermination or completion of the situation.
IfREFERENCE-TIME has other values, e.g., at-present, which is after the terminating time, itindicates that the focus of the speaker is on eitherthe recent past or experiential meaning of thesituation, rather than on the termination  orcompletion of the situation.
Correspondingly,they show temporal structures of differentaspects.In the input specification, several parametersare also used to represent the conceptual featuresof the aspect.
The conceptual features and thecorresponding parameters define the space ofpossible aspect-related semantic variation: thisshows precisely which facets of aspectualsemantics are grammaticised in the language; theparticular grammatical consequences are thendistributed over the grammatical choice pointsdefined in the grammatical component.
Whenusing this for generation, any given situation tobe expressed must be ?re-conceptualized?
interms of parameters provided.
This should bedone by the user interested in investigating thegrammatical realizations of distinct temporalrelations.
The parameter CHANGEABLITY hasthe value change-of-state, indicating thecompletion of  the situation.
The value of theparameter STATE-ACTION-PROPERTY isevent, indicating that the situation is not of typestate and can be viewed as a whole.
Both theparameter EXCLUSIVENESS-TI and theparameter EXCLUSIVENESS-TT have the valueincluded, indicating that the time interval overwhich the situation holds is closed at its two endpoints.
This means that the situation occurred atsome specific time and finished.
The parameterREPEATABILITY has the value irrelevant,indicating not being related to any particularconceptual feature.Referring to the semantics above, we followthe system traversal to generate an aspectexpression by evaluating the relevant inquiries.The traversal starts from the system of WITH-ASPECT-MARKER-TYPE and needs to make achoice among its three options: imperfective,perfective, and imminent.
Corresponding to thedefinition of aspect in the present research,perfective, imperfective, and imminent aspectsare interpreted in the following ways: perfective634is the way of viewing the states of a situationwith respect to its internal temporal constituencyfrom outside the situation structure: the viewingpoint of the aspect is after or equal to theterminating time, i.e., tt?tr; imperfective is theway of viewing the states of a situation withrespect to its internal temporal constituencyinside the situation structure: the viewing pointof the aspect ranges from the initial time,including the initial time, to the terminating timeof the situation, i.e., ti?tr<tt; imminent is the wayof viewing the occurrence of a situation fromoutside the situation structure and with theviewing point shortly before the initial time ofthe situation, i.e., tr<ti and Ptr-ti=shortly-precede.The temporal relations of the perfective,imperfective, and imminent aspects are capturedby specifying appropriate values for the inquiriesnamed perfective-q-code, imperfective-q-code,and imminent-q-code respectively.
Whenoperating within the context of a full generationsystem, these values would generally beprovided via the results of text planning in theusual manner.The with-aspect-marker-type chooser,which takes the form of a decision tree asdescribed in section 4.1, is in charge ofmaking the selection by asking relevantinquiries to see what type of aspect has thesemantic applicability conditions whichmatch the semantic inputs represented in theinput specification.
The fine classificationand distinct semantic descriptions ofdifferent aspects are sufficient to constrainchoice regardless of their particular order ofapplication.
Therefore, alternativeimplementations of the choosers, such asspecifications of feature vectors, could beenvisioned.
Possible consequences of suchchanges for the other components of thegeneration architecture would then need tobe considered, however.
Because in thepresent case both the terminating time tt andthe reference time tr have the value at-past-future that meets the temporal conditionrequired by the perfective aspects, the optionperfective is chosen and the system ofPERFECTIVE-PRIMARY-TYPE is entered.After entering the system of PERFECTIVE-PRIMARY-TYPE, a selection among threeoptions recent-past (the REP aspectV+(NP)+lai2zhe), experiential (the unmarked-experiential aspect V+guo and the marked-experiential aspect ceng2jing1+V+(guo)), andrealized (the URE aspect V+le and the perfectaspect yi3jing+V+(le)) has to be made.
Theperfective-primary-type chooser is responsiblefor making this choice.
Accordingly, the chooserfirstly evaluates the inquiries named recent-past-q-code and experiential-q-code respectively.
Therecent-past (REP) aspect V+(NP)+lai2zhe servesto indicate that a durative situation existed notlong ago.
The semantic applicability conditionsrepresented by the ASF of the REP aspectV+(NP)+lai2zhe include the following: thesituation expressed by the aspect shows thefeature durative which can be represented in thetemporal relation ti<tt; the terminating time of thesituation precedes the reference time, i.e., tt<tr;and the reference time tr is a specific time point.A further condition required is represented by theparameter Ptt-tr with the value shortly-precede,indicating the qualitative distance from tt to tr.The parameter EXL has the value excluded andincluded for the initial time ti and the terminatingtime tt respectively.After evaluating the inquiry of recent-past-q-code, the perfective-primary-type chooser gives anegative result, indicating that the semanticspresented by the input specification does notmatch the semantic applicability conditions ofthe REP aspect.
One obvious mismatch isreflected in the temporal relation between theterminating time tt and the reference time tr.
Thecondition given by the input specification is tt=tr,while the condition required by the REP aspect istt<tr.After failing to select the REP aspect, theperfective-primary-type chooser continues toevaluate the inquiry associated with theexperiential aspects.
The experiential aspectsinclude the unmarked-experiential (UEX) aspectV+guo and the marked-experiential (MEX)aspect ceng2jing1+V+(guo).
Although the twoexperiential aspects have some differences inusage (cf.
Yang, 2007), they have the sameaspectual function to indicate that a situationexisted at least once in the past and was over, nothaving current relevance.
The semanticapplicability conditions shared by the twoexperiential aspects are: the terminating time ttprecedes the reference time tr; the situationreferred to has the feature repeatable; theparameter EXLti has the value either excluded orincluded;  the parameter EXLtt has the valueincluded.Similarly to the failure of selecting the REPaspect elaborated above, the evaluation of the635inquiry of experiential-q-code will also failbecause the semantic applicability conditions ofthe experiential aspects do not meet the semanticinformation shown in the input specification.Except for the mismatch of the temporalrelations, the conceptual feature repeatablerequired by the experiential aspects is also absentin the input specification.When both the REP aspect and theexperiential aspects have been excluded, theperfective-primary-type chooser selects aspectsof realized type, and then the traversal enters thesystem of REALIZED-TYE, then a furtherselection between the URE aspect V+le and thePEF aspect yi3jing+V+(le) has to be made.
Therealized-type chooser is responsible for makingthis selection.
To make the selection, therealized-type chooser firstly evaluates the inquiryunmarked-realized-q-code to check whether thesemantic applicability conditions of the UREaspect V+le can be met.
The inquiry unmarked-realized-q-code is defined according to the ASFof the URE aspect as shown in Figure 2.
Therealized-type chooser evaluates the inquiryunmarked-realized-q-code by comparing theinput semantics with the semantic applicabilityconditions of the URE aspect.
The evaluation ofthe unmarked-realized inquiry succeeds becauseall the predicates of the unmarked-realized-q-code give the value T (Due to the space limit, wewill not describe the whole process of evaluationin detail here).
Hence, according to the algorithmof the realized-type chooser, the URE aspectV+le should be chosen and the perfect-q-codedoes not need to be evaluated.
The generatedsentence, marked up to show its constituency, isthen as follows:((zhe4/?)(sou1/?)(chuan2/?))
((jin1tian1/??
))this           CL           ship                  today(zhuang1yun4/??)
(le/?)
((yi1/?)
(liang4/?
)load              URE        one           CL((you3 gu4zhang4/???)(de/?
))have    problem             of(ka3che1/??.
))truck(The ship loaded an inoperative truck today.
)5  ConclusionWith the method elaborated above, a test-bed offorty aspect expressions of the Chinese aspectsystem has been correctly generated in the formsof both Chinese phonetic alphabet and characters.In the present research the application of theASFs provides a formal way to representsemantic applicability conditions of the aspects;the grammatical network built on the basis ofsystemic functional grammar systematicallyorganizes and distinguishes semantic functionsof different aspects.
The computationalimplementation verifies both grammaticalorganization and semantic descriptions of theChinese aspects.
The complete system files  andthe sentences generated are available on thewebsite: ?http://www.fb10.uni-bremen.de/anglistik/langpro/kpml/genbank/chinese.htm?.AcknowledgementWe thank Peter Lang Publisher for allowing us touse the relevant contents of the book (Yang,2007) in this article.
We also thank theanonymous reviewers for their valuablecomments and revision suggestions for themanuscript.ReferencesAllen, J.F.
(1984) Towards a General Theory ofAction and Time, Artificial Intelligence, 1984, 23,p.123-154Bateman, J.A.
1997a.
Enabling technology formultilingual natural language generation: theKPML development.
Natural LanguageEngineering, 3(1), pp.15-55.Bateman, J.A.
1997b.
KPML DevelopmentEnvironment: multilingual linguistic resourcedevelopment and sentence generation.
(Release1.1).
GMD-Studie Number 304.
German NationalCenter for Information Technology (GMD), SanktAugustin, Germany.Bateman, J.A.
1997c.
Sentence generation andsystemic grammar: an introduction.
English draftwritten for: Iwanami Lecture Series: LanguageSciences, Volume 8.
Tokyo: Iwanami ShotenPublisher (in Japanese).Bateman, J.A.
2000.
Multilinguality andmultifunctionality in linguistic description andsome possible applications.
Sprachtypol.
Univ.Forsch.
(STUF), Berlin 53 (2000) 2, pp.131-154.Bestougeff, H. and G. Ligozat.
Translator: I.D.Alexander-Craig.
1992.
Logical Tools forTemporal Knowledge Representation.
EllisHorwood Limited.
England.Comrie, Bernard.
1976.
Aspect.
Cambridge, England:Cambridge University Press.636Dai, Yaojing.
1997.
??????????
(TheStudy of Chinese Aspect).
Zhejiang EducationPress.Dowty, David R. 1979.
Word Meaning and MontagueGrammar.
Dordrecht: Reidel.Fawcett, R.P.
1987.
System networks in the lexical-grammar.
In Halliday, M.A.K., and Fawcett, R.P.(eds.)
New developments in systemic linguistics Vol1: Theory and description.
London: Pinter.Halliday, M.A.K.
1994 (second edition of 1985).
AnIntroduction to Functional Grammar (secondedition).
London: Edward Arnold.Kasper, Robert T. 1989.
A flexible interface forlinking applications to PENMAN?s sentencegenerator.
In Proceedings of the DARPA Workshopon Speech and Natural Languages.
Available fromUSC/Information Sciences Institute, Marina delRey, CA.Lee, Hsi-Jian and Hsu, Ren-Rong.
1990.
An ERSmodel for tense and aspect information in Chinesesentences.
In Proceedings of ROCLING III, R.O.C.Computational Linguistics Conference III.
Taipei:Tsing Hua University.
pp.213-234.Li, Wenjie, Kam-Fai Wong, and Chunfa Yuan.
2001.A model for processing temporal references inChinese.
In Proceedings of ACL?2001 Workshopon Temporal and Spatial  Information Processing,Toulouse, France.
pp.33-40.Matthiessen, M.I.M.
and Bateman, J.A.
1991.
Textgeneration and Systemic-Functional Linguistics,Experiences from English and Japanese.
PinterPublishers, London.Montague, R. 1970.
English as a formal language.
InRichmond H. Thomason (ed.)
1974.
FormalPhilosophy, Selected Paper of Richard Montague.Yale University Press.
New Haven and London.pp.188-221.Olsen, Mari B.
1997.
A Semantic and PragmaticModel of Lexical and Grammatical Aspect.Garland Publishing, Inc.Portner, P. and B.H.
Partee.
2002.
Formal Semantics.Blackwell Publishers Ltd.Smith, C.S.
1997 (second edition of 1991).
TheParameter of Aspect.
Kluwer Academic Publishers.Vendler, Zeno.
1967.
Linguistics in Philosophy.Ithaca: Cornell University Press.Xue, Nianwen.
2008.
Automatic inference of thetemporal location of situations in Chinese text.
InProceedings of EMNLP-2008.
Waikiki, Honolulu,Hawaii.Xue, Nianwen, Hua Zhong, and Kai-Yun Chen.
2008.Annotating ?tense?
in a tense-less language.
InProceedings of LREC 2008.
Marrakesh.
Morocco.Yang, Guowen and J.A.
Bateman.
2002.
The Chineseaspect system and its semantic interpretation.
InShu-Chuan Tseng (ed.)
Proceedings of the 19thInternational Conference on ComputationalLinguistics (COLING-2002).
August 26-30, Taipei.ISBN 1-55860-894-X, Morgan KaufmannPublishers, Vol.
2, pp.
1128-1134.Yang, Guowen 2007 The Semantics of ChineseAspects ?
Theoretical Descriptions and aComputational  Implementation.
Peter Lang.Frankfurt am Main.637
