Proceedings of the ACL-IJCNLP 2009 Software Demonstrations, pages 29?32,Suntec, Singapore, 3 August 2009. c?2009 ACL and AFNLPWikiBABEL: A Wiki-style Platform for Creation of Parallel DataA Kumaran?
K Saravanan?
Naren Datha*      B Ashok*      Vikram Dendi?
?Multilingual SystemsResearchMicrosoft Research India*Advanced Development &PrototypingMicrosoft Research India?Machine TranslationIncubationMicrosoft ResearchAbstractIn this demo, we present a wiki-style platform ?WikiBABEL ?
that enables easy collaborativecreation of multilingual content in many non-English Wikipedias, by leveraging the relativelylarger and more stable content in the EnglishWikipedia.
The platform provides an intuitiveuser interface that maintains the user focus onthe multilingual Wikipedia content creation, byengaging search tools for easy discoverability ofrelated English source material, and a set of lin-guistic and collaborative tools to make the con-tent translation simple.
We present two differentusage scenarios and discuss our experience intesting them with real users.
Such integratedcontent creation platform in Wikipedia may yieldas a by-product, parallel corpora that are criticalfor research in statistical machine translation sys-tems in many languages of the world.1 IntroductionParallel corpora are critical for research in manynatural language processing systems, especially,the Statistical Machine Translation (SMT) andCrosslingual Information Retrieval (CLIR) sys-tems, as the state-of-the-art systems are based onstatistical learning principles; a typical SMT sys-tem in a pair of language requires large parallelcorpora, in the order of a few million parallelsentences.
Parallel corpora are traditionallycreated by professionals (in most cases, for busi-ness or governmental needs) and are availableonly in a few languages of the world.
The prohi-bitive cost associated with creating new paralleldata implied that the SMT research was re-stricted to only a handful of languages of theworld.
To make such research possible widely, itis important that innovative and inexpensiveways of creating parallel corpora are found.
Ourresearch explores such an avenue: by involvingthe user community in creation of parallel data.In this demo, we present a community colla-boration platform ?
WikiBABEL ?
whichenables the creation of multilingual content inWikipedia.
WikiBABEL leverages two signifi-cant facts with respect to Wikipedia data: First,there is a large skew between the content of Eng-lish and non-English Wikipedias.
Second, whilethe original content creation requires subjectmatter experts, subsequent translations may beeffectively created by people who are fluent inEnglish and the target language.
In general, wedo expect the large English Wikipedia to providesource material for multilingual Wikipedias;however on specific topics specific multilingualWikipedia may provide the source material(http://ja.wikipedia.org/wiki/??
may be betterthan http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/haiku).
Weleverage these facts in the WikiBABEL frame-work, enabling a community of interested nativespeakers of a language, to create content in theirrespective language Wikipedias.
We make suchcontent creation easy by integrating linguistictools and resources for translation, and collabora-tive mechanism for storing and sharing know-ledge among the users.
Such methodology isexpected to generate comparable data (similar,but not the same content), from which paralleldata may be mined subsequently (Munteanu etal, 2005) (Quirk et al 2007).We present here the WikiBABEL platform,and trace its evolution through two distinct usageversions: First, as a standalone deployment pro-viding a community of users a translation plat-form on hosted Wikipedia data to generate paral-lel corpora, and second, as a transparent editlayer on top of Wikipedias to generate compara-ble corpora.
Both paradigms were used for usertesting, to gauge the usability of the tool and theviability of the approach for content creation inmultilingual Wikipedias.
We discuss the imple-mentations and our experience with each of theabove scenarios.
Such experience may be veryvaluable in fine-tuning methodologies for com-munity creation of various types of linguisticdata.
Community contributed efforts may per-haps be the only way to collect sufficient corporaeffectively and economically, to enable researchin many resource-poor languages of the world.292 Architecture of WikiBABELThe architecture of WikiBABEL is as illustratedin Figure 1: Central to the architecture is the Wi-kiBABEL component that coordinates the interac-tion between its linguistic and collaborationcomponents, and the users and the Wikipediasystem.
WikiBABEL architecture is designed tosupport a host of linguistic tools and resourcesthat may be helpful in the content creationprocess: Bilingual dictionaries for providing forword-level translations, allowing user customiza-tion of domain-specific, or even, user-specificbilingual dictionaries.
Also available are ma-chine translation and transliteration systems forrough initial translation [or transliteration] of asource language string at sentential/phrasal levels[or names] to the intended target language.
Asthe quality of automatic translations are rarelyclose to human quality translations, the user mayneed to correct any such automatically translatedor transliterated content, and an intuitive editframework provides tools for such corrections.A collaborative translation memory componentstores all the user corrections (or, sometimes,their selection from a set of alternatives) of ma-chine translations, and makes them available tothe community as a translation help (?tribe know-ledge?).
Voting mechanisms are available thatmay prioritize more frequently chosen alterna-tives as preferred suggestions for subsequent us-ers.
The user-management tracks the user de-mographic information, and their contributions(its quality and quantity) for possible recogni-tion.
The user interface features are imple-mented as light-weight components, requiringminimal server-side interaction.
Finally, the ar-chitecture is designed open, to integrate any user-developed tools and resources easily.3 WikiBABEL on WikipediaIN this section we discuss Wikipedia content anduser characteristics and outline our experiencewith the two versions on Wikipedia.3.1 Wikipedia: User & Data CharacteristicsWikipedia content is acknowledged to be on parwith the best of the professionally created re-sources (Giles, 2005) and is used regularly asacademic reference (Rainie et al, 2007).
How-ever, there is a large disparity in content betweenEnglish and other language Wikipedias.
EnglishWikipedia - the largest - has about 3.5 Milliontopics, but with an exception of a dozen or soWestern European and East Asian languages,most of the 250-odd languages have less than 1%of English Wikipedia content (Wikipedia, 2009).Such skew, despite the size of the respective userpopulation, indicates a large room for growth inmany multilingual Wikipedias.
On the contribu-tion side, Wikipedia has about 200,000 contribu-tors (> 10 total contributions); but only about 4%of them are very active (> 100 contributions permonth).
The general perception that a few veryactive users contributed to the bulk of Wikipediawas disputed in a study (Swartz, 2006) thatclaims that large fraction of the content werecreated by those who made very few or occa-sional contributions that are primarily editorial innature.
It is our strategy to provide a platformfor easy multilingual Wikipedia content creationthat may be harvested for parallel data.3.2 Version 1: A Hosted PortalIn our first version, a set of English Wikipediatopics (stable non-controversial articles, typicallyfrom Medicine, Healthcare, Science & Technol-ogy, Literature, etc.)
were chosen and hosted inour WikiBABEL portal.
Such set of articles isalready available as Featured Articles in mostWikipedias.
English Wikipedia has a set of~1500 articles that are voted by the communityas stable and well written, spanning many do-mains, such as, Literature, Philosophy, History,Science, Art, etc.
The user can choose any ofthese Wikipedia topics to translate to the targetlanguage and correct the machine translation er-rors.
Once a topic is chosen, a two-pane windowis presented to the user, as shown in Figure 2, inwhich the original English Wikipedia article isshown in the left panel and a rough translation ofthe same article in the user-chosen target lan-guage is presented in the right panel.
The rightpanel has the same look and feel as the original30English Wikipedia article, and is editable, whilethe left panel is primarily intended for providingsource material for reference and context, for thetranslation correction.
On mouse-over the paral-lel sentences are highlighted, linking visually therelated text on both panels.
On a mouse-click, anedit-box is opened in-place in the right panel,and the current content may be edited.
As men-tioned earlier, integrated linguistic tools and re-sources may be invoked during edit process, tohelp the user.
Once the article reaches sufficientquality as judged by the users, the content maybe transferred to target language Wikipedia, ef-fectively creating a new topic in the target lan-guage Wikipedia.User Feedback: We field tested our first ver-sion with a set of Wikipedia users, and a host ofamateur and professional translators.
The prima-ry feedback we got was that such efforts to createcontent in multilingual Wikipedia was well ap-preciated.
The testing provided much quantita-tive (in terms of translation time, effort, etc.)
andqualitative (user experience) measures and feed-back.
The details are available in (Kumaran etal., 2008), and here we provide highlights only:?
Integrated linguistic resources (e.g., bilingualdictionaries, transliteration systems, etc.
)were appreciated by all users.?
Amateur users used the automatic translations(in direct correlation with its quality), andimproved their throughput up to 40%.?
In contrast, those who were very fluent inboth the languages were distracted by thequality of translations, and were slowed by30%.
In most cases, they preferred to redothe entire translations, rather than consideringand correcting the rough translation.?
One qualitative feedback from the Wikipediacommunity is that the sentence-by-sentencetranslation enforced by the portal is not intune with their philosophy of user-decidedcontent for the target topic.We used the feedback from the version 1, to re-design WikiBABEL in version 2.3.3 Version 2: As a Transparent Edit LayerIn our second version, we implemented thesignificant feedback from Wikipedians, pertain-ing to source content selection and the user con-tribution.
In this version, we delivered the Wi-kiBABEL experience as an add-on to Wikipedia,as a semi-transparent overlay that augments thebasic Wikipedia edit capabilities without takingthe contributor away from the site.
Capable ofbeing launched with one click (via a bookmark-let, or a browser plug-in, or as a potential serverside integration with Wikipedia), the new versionoffered a more seamless workflow and integratedlinguistic and collaborative components.
Thisadd-on may be invoked on Wikipedia itself, pro-viding all WikiBABEL functionalities.
In a typi-cal WikiBABEL usage scenario, a Wikipedia31content creator may be at an English Wikipediaarticle for which no corresponding article existsin the target language, or at target language Wi-kipedia article which has much less contentcompared to the corresponding English article.The WikiBABEL user interface in this versionis as shown in Figure 3.
The source English Wi-kipedia article is shown in the left panel tabs, andmay be toggled between English and the targetlanguage; also it may be viewed in HTML or inWiki-markup.
The right panel shows the targetlanguage Wikipedia article (if it exists), or anewly created stub (otherwise); either case, theright panel presents a native target language Wi-kipedia edit page, for the chosen topic.
The leftpanel content is used as a reference for contentcreation in target language Wikipedia in the rightpanel.
The user may compose the target lan-guage Wikipedia article, either by dragging-and-dropping translated content from the left to theright panel (into the target language Wikipediaeditor), or add new content as a typical Wikipe-dia user would.
To enable the user to stay withinWikiBABEL for their content research, we haveprovided the capability to search through otherWikipedia articles in the left panel.
All linguisticand collaborative features are available to theusers in the right panel, as in the previous ver-sion.
The default target language Wikipedia pre-view is at any time.
While the user testing of thisimplementation is still in the preliminary stages,we wish to make the following observations onthe methodology:?
There is a marked shift of focus from?translation from English Wikipedia article?to ?content creation in target Wikipedia?.?
The user is never taken away from Wiki-pedia site, requiring optionally only Wikipe-dia credentials.
The content is created direct-ly in the target Wikipedia.The WikiBABEL Version 2 prototype will bemade available externally in the future.ReferencesKumaran, A, Saravanan, K and Maurice, S. WikiBA-BEL: Community Creation of Multilingual Data.WikiSYM 2008 Conference, 2008.Munteanu, D. and Marcu, D. Improving the MT per-formance by exploiting non-parallel corpora.Computational Linguistics.
2005.Giles, J. Internet encyclopaedias go head to head.Nature.
2005. doi:10.1038/438900a.Quirk, C., Udupa, R. U. and Menezes, A. Generativemodels of noisy translations with app.
to parallelfragment extraction.
MT Summit XI, 2007.Rainie, L. and Tancer, B. Pew Internet and AmericanLife.
http://www.pewinternet.org/.Swartz, A.
Raw thought: Who writes Wikipedia?2006.
http://www.aaronsw.com/.Wikipedia Statistics, 2009.http://stats.wikimedia.org/.32
