Proceedings of the ACL-IJCNLP 2009 Software Demonstrations, pages 1?4,Suntec, Singapore, 3 August 2009. c?2009 ACL and AFNLPWISDOM: A Web Information Credibility Analysis SystemSusumu Akamine?
Daisuke Kawahara?
Yoshikiyo Kato?Tetsuji Nakagawa?
Kentaro Inui?
Sadao Kurohashi??
Yutaka Kidawara?
?National Institute of Information and Communications Technology?
Graduate School of Informatics, Kyoto University{akamine, dk, ykato, tnaka, inui, kidawara}@nict.go.jp, kuro@i.kyoto-u.ac.jpAbstractWe demonstrate an information credibilityanalysis system called WISDOM.
The purposeof WISDOM is to evaluate the credibility of in-formation available on the Web from multipleviewpoints.
WISDOM considers the followingto be the source of information credibility: in-formation contents, information senders, andinformation appearances.
We aim at analyzingand organizing these measures on the basis ofsemantics-oriented natural language processing(NLP) techniques.1.
IntroductionAs computers and computer networks becomeincreasingly sophisticated, a vast amount of in-formation and knowledge has been accumulatedand circulated on the Web.
They provide peoplewith options regarding their daily lives and arestarting to have a strong influence on govern-mental policies and business management.
How-ever, a crucial problem is that the informationavailable on the Web is not necessarily credible.It is actually very difficult for human beings tojudge the credibility of the information and evenmore difficult for computers.
However, comput-ers can be used to develop a system that collects,organizes, and relativises information and helpshuman beings view information from severalviewpoints and judge the credibility of the in-formation.Information organization is a promising en-deavor in the area of next-generation Web search.The search engine Clusty provides a search resultclustering1, and Cuil classifies a search result onthe basis of query-related terms2.
The persuasivetechnology research project at Stanford Universi-ty discussed how websites can be designed toinfluence people?s perceptions (B. J. Fogg, 2003).However, as per our knowledge, no research hasbeen carried out for supporting the human judg-ment on information credibility and informationorganization systems for this purpose.In order to support the judgment of informa-tion credibility, it is necessary to extract thebackground, facts, and various opinions and their1 http://clusty.com/, http://clusty.jp/distribution for a given topic.
For this purpose,syntactic and discourse structures must be ana-lyzed, their types and relations must be extracted,and synonymous and ambiguous expressionsshould be handled properly.Furthermore, it is important to determine theidentity of the information sender and his/herspecialty as criteria for credibility, which requirenamed entity recognition and total analysis ofdocuments.In this paper, we describe an information cre-dibility analysis system called WISDOM, whichautomatically analyzes and organizes the aboveaspects on the basis of semantically orientedNLP techniques.
WISDOM currently operatesover 100 million Japanese Web pages.2.
Overview of WISDOMWe consider the following three criteria for thejudgment of information credibility.
(1) Credibility of information contents,(2) Credibility of the information sender, and(3) Credibility estimated from the documentstyle and superficial characteristics.In order to help people judge the credibility ofinformation from these viewpoints, we have beendeveloping an information analysis system calledWISDOM.
Figure 1 shows the analysis result ofWISDOM on the analysis topic ?Is bio-ethanolgood for the environment??
Figure 2 shows thesystem architecture of WISDOM.Given an analysis topic (query), WISDOMsends the query to the search engine TSUBAKI(Shinzato et al, 2008), and TSUBAKI returns alist of the top N relevant Web pages (N is usuallyset to 1000).Then, those pages are automatically analyzed,and major and contradictory expressions and eva-luative expressions are extracted.
Furthermore,the information senders of the Web pages, whichwere analyzed beforehand, are collected and thedistribution is calculated.The WISDOM analysis results can be viewedfrom several viewpoints by changing the tabsusing a Web browser.
The leftmost tab, ?Sum-mary,?
shows the summary of the analysis, withmajor phrases and major/contradictory state-ments first.1Query: ?Is bio-ethanol good for the environment??
SummaryFigure 1.
An analysis example of the information credibility analysis system WISDOM.Figure 2.
System architecture of WISDOM.By referring to these phrases and statements,a user can grasp the important issues related tothe topic at a glance.
The pie diagram indicatesthe distribution of the information sender classspread over 1000 pages, such as company, indus-try group, and government.
The names of theinformation senders of the class can be viewedby placing the cursor over a class region.
The lastbar chart shows the distribution of positive andnegative opinions related to the topic spread over1000 pages, for all and for each sender class.
Forexample, with regard to ?Bio-ethanol,?
we cansee that the number of positive opinions is morethan that of negative opinions, but it is the oppo-site in the case of some sender classes.
Severaldisplay units in the Summary tab are cursor sen-sitive, providing links to more detailed informa-tion (e.g., the page list including a major state-SenderOpinionSearch Result Major/Contradictory Expressions2ment, the page list of a sender class, and the pagelist containing negative opinions).The ?Search Result?
tab shows the search re-sult by TSUBAKI, i.e., ranking the relevant pag-es according to the TSUBAKI criteria.
The ?Ma-jor/Contradictory Expressions?
tab shows the listof major phrases and major/contradictory state-ments about the given topic and the list of pagescontaining the specified phrase or statement.
The?Opinion?
tab shows the analysis result of theevaluative expressions, classified according tofor/against, like/dislike, merit/demerit, and others,and it also shows the list of pages containing thespecified type of evaluative expressions.
The?Sender?
tab classifies the pages according to theclass of the information sender, for example, auser can view the pages created only by the gov-ernment.Furthermore, the superficial characteristics ofpages called as information appearance are ana-lyzed beforehand and can be viewed in WIS-DOM, such as whether or not the contact addressis shown in the page and the privacy policy is onthe page, the volume of advertisements on thepage, the number of images, and the number ofin/out links.As shown thus far, given an analysis topic,WISDOM collects and organizes the relevantinformation available on the Web and providesusers with multi-faceted views.
We believe thatsuch a system can considerably support the hu-man judgment of information credibility.3.
Data InfrastructureWe usually utilize 100 million Japanese Webpages as the analysis target.
The Web pages havebeen converted into the standard formatted Webdata, an XML format.
The format includes sever-al metadata such as URLs, crawl dates, titles, andin/out links.
A text in a page is automaticallysegmented into sentences (note that the sentenceboundary is not clear in the original HTML file),and the analysis results obtained by a morpholog-ical analyzer, parser, and synonym analyzer arealso stored in the standard format.
Furthermore,the site operator, the page author, and informa-tion appearance (e.g., contact address, privacypolicy, volume of advertisements, and images)are automatically analyzed and stored in thestandard format.4.
Extraction of Major Expressions andTheir ContradictionsFor the organization of information contents,WISDOM extracts and presents the major ex-pressions and their contradictions on a givenanalysis topic (Kawahara et al, 2008).
Majorexpressions are defined as expressions occurringat a high frequency in the set of Web pages onthe analysis topic.
They are classified into two:noun phrases and predicate-argument structures(statements).
Contradictions are the predicate-argument structures that contradict the major ex-pressions.
For the Japanese phrase yutori kyouiku(cram-free education), for example, tsumekomikyouiku (cramming education) and ikiru chikara(life skills) are extracted as the major nounphrases; yutori kyouiku-wo minaosu (reexaminecram-free education) and gakuryokuga teika-suru(scholastic ability deteriorates), as the major pre-dicate-argument structures; and gakuryoku-gakoujousuru (scholastic ability ameliorates), as itscontradiction.
This kind of summarized informa-tion enables a user to grasp the facts and argu-ments on the analysis topic available on the Web.We use 1000 Web pages for a topic retrievedfrom the search engine TSUBAKI.
Our methodof extracting major expressions and their contra-dictions consists of the following steps:1.
Extracting candidates of major expressions:The candidates of major expressions are ex-tracted from each Web page in the search result.From the relevant sentences to the analysis topicthat consist of approximately 15 sentences se-lected from each Web page, compound nouns,parenthetical expressions, and predicate-argument structures are extracted as the candi-dates of the major expressions.2.
Distilling major expressions:Simply presenting expressions at a high fre-quency is not always information of high quality.This is because scattering synonymous expres-sions such as karikyuramu (curriculum) andkyouiku katei (course of study) and entailing ex-pressions such as IWC and IWC soukai (IWCplenary session), all of which occur frequently,hamper the understanding process of users.
Fur-ther, synonymous predicate-argument structuressuch as gakuryoku-ga teika-suru (scholasticability deteriorates) and gakuryoku-ga sagaru(scholastic ability lowers) have the same problem.To overcome this problem, we distill major ex-pressions by merging spelling variations withmorphological analysis, merging synonymousexpressions automatically acquired from an ordi-nary dictionary and the Web, and merging ex-pressions that can be entailed by another expres-sion.3.
Extracting contradictory expressions:Predicate-argument structures that negate thepredicate of major ones and that replace the pre-dicate of major ones with its antonym are ex-tracted as contradictions.
For example, gakuryo-ku-ga teika-shi-nai (scholastic ability does notdeteriorate) and gakuryokuga koujou-suru (scho-lastic ability ameliorates) are extracted as thecontradictions to gakuryoku-ga teikasuru (scho-lastic ability deteriorates).
This process is per-formed using an antonym lexicon, which consistsof approximately 2000 pairs; these pairs are ex-tracted from an ordinary dictionary.5.
Extraction of Evaluative InformationThe extraction and classification of evaluativeinformation from texts are important tasks with3many applications and they have been activelystudied recently (Pang and Lee, 2008).
Most pre-vious studies on opinion extraction or sentimentanalysis deal with only subjective and explicitexpressions.
For example, Japanese sentencessuch as watashi-wa apple-ga sukida (I like ap-ples) and kono seido-ni hantaida (I oppose thesystem) contain evaluative expressions that aredirectly expressed with subjective expressions.However, sentences such as kono shokuhin-wakou-gan-kouka-ga aru (this food has an anti-cancer effect) and kono camera-wa katte 3-ka-dekowareta (this camera was broken 3 days after Ibought it) do not contain subjective expressionsbut contain negative evaluative expressions.From the viewpoint of information credibility, itappears important to deal with a wide variety ofevaluative information including such implicitevaluative expressions (Nakagawa et al, 2008).A corpus annotated with evaluative informa-tion was developed for evaluative informationanalysis studies.
Fifty topics such as ?Bio-ethanol?
and ?Pension plan?
were chosen.
Foreach topic, 200 sentences containing the topicword were collected from the Web to constructthe corpus totaling 10,000 sentences.
For eachsentence, annotators judged whether or not thesentence contained evaluative expressions.
Whenevaluative expressions were identified, the evalu-ative expressions, their holders, their sentimentpolarities (positive or negative), and their relev-ance to the topic were annotated.We developed an automatic analyzer of evalu-ative information using the corpus.
We per-formed experiments of sentiment polarity classi-fication using Support Vector Machines.
Wordforms, POS tags, and sentiment polarities froman evaluative word dictionary of all the words inevaluative expressions were used as features, andan accuracy of 83% was obtained.
From the erroranalysis, we found that it was difficult to classifydomain-specific evaluative expressions; we arenow planning the automatic acquisition of evalu-ative word dictionaries.6.
Information Sender AnalysisThe source of information (or information sender)is one of the important elements when judging thecredibility of information.
It is rather easy for humanbeings to identify the information sender of a Webpage.
When reading a Web page, whether it is deli-berate or not, we attribute some characteristics to theinformation sender and accordingly form our atti-tudes toward the information.
However, the state-of-the-art search engines do not provide facilities toorganize a vast amount of information on the basisof the information sender.
If we can organize theinformation on a topic on the basis of who or whattype the information sender is, it would enable theuser to grasp an overview of the topic or to judge thecredibility of relevant information.WISDOM automatically identifies the site op-erators of Web pages and classifies them intopredefined categories of information sendercalled information sender class.
A site operatorof a Web page is the governing body of a websiteon which the page is published.
The informationsender class categorizes the information senderon the basis of axes such as individuals vs. or-ganizations and profit vs. nonprofit organizations.The list below shows the categories of informa-tion sender class.1.
Organization (cont?d)(c) Pressi.
Broadcasting Stationii.
Newspaperiii.
Publisher2.
Individual(a) Real Name(b) Anonymous,Screen Name1.
Organization(a) Profit Organizationi.
Companyii.
Industry Group(b) Nonprofit Organizationi.
Academic Societyii.
Governmentiii.
Political Organizationiv.
Public Service Corp.,Nonprofit Organizationv.
Universityvi.
Voluntary Associationvii.
Education InstitutionWISDOM allows the user to organize the in-formation on the basis of the information senderclass assigned to each Web page.
Technical de-tails of the information sender analysis employedin WISDOM can be found in (Kato et al, 2008).7.
ConclusionsThis paper has described an information analy-sis system called WISDOM.
As shown in this pa-per, WISDOM already provides a reasonably niceorganized view for a given topic and can serve as auseful tool for handling informational queries andfor supporting human judgment of informationcredibility.
WISDOM is freely available athttp://wisdom-nict.jp/.ReferencesB.
J. Fogg.
2003.
Persuasive Technology: Using Com-puters to Change What We Think and Do (The Mor-gan Kaufmann Series in Interactive Technologies).Morgan Kaufmann.K.
Shinzato, T. Shibata, D. Kawahara, C. Hashimoto,and S. Kurohashi 2008.
TSUBAKI: An open searchengine infrastructure for developing new informationaccess methodology.
In Proceedings of IJCNLP2008.D.
Kawahara, S. Kurohashi, and K. Inui 2008.
Graspingmajor statements and their contradictions toward in-formation credibility analysis of web contents.
InProceedings of  WI?08.B.
Pang and L. Lee 2008.
Opinion mining and senti-ment analysis, Foundations and Trends in Informa-tion Retrieval, Volume 2, Issue 1-2, 2008.T.
Nakagawa, T. Kawada, K. Inui, and S. Kurohashi2008.
Extracting subjective and objective evaluativeexpressions from the web.
In Proceedings ofISUC2008.Y.
Kato, D. Kawahara, K. Inui, S. Kurohashi, and T.Shibata 2008.
Extracting the author of web pages.
InProceedings of WICOW2008.4
