Proceedings of the ACL-IJCNLP 2009 Conference Short Papers, pages 13?16,Suntec, Singapore, 4 August 2009.c?2009 ACL and AFNLPUsing Syntax to Disambiguate Explicit Discourse Connectives in Text?Emily Pitler and Ani NenkovaComputer and Information ScienceUniversity of PennsylvaniaPhiladelphia, PA 19104, USAepitler,nenkova@seas.upenn.eduAbstractDiscourse connectives are words orphrases such as once, since, and onthe contrary that explicitly signal thepresence of a discourse relation.
Thereare two types of ambiguity that need tobe resolved during discourse processing.First, a word can be ambiguous betweendiscourse or non-discourse usage.
Forexample, once can be either a temporaldiscourse connective or a simply a wordmeaning ?formerly?.
Secondly, someconnectives are ambiguous in terms of therelation they mark.
For example sincecan serve as either a temporal or causalconnective.
We demonstrate that syntacticfeatures improve performance in bothdisambiguation tasks.
We report state-of-the-art results for identifying discoursevs.
non-discourse usage and human-levelperformance on sense disambiguation.1 IntroductionDiscourse connectives are often used to explicitlymark the presence of a discourse relation betweentwo textual units.
Some connectives are largelyunambiguous, such as although and additionally,which are almost always used as discourse con-nectives and the relations they signal are unam-biguously identified as comparison and expansion,respectively.
However, not all words and phrasesthat can serve as discourse connectives have thesedesirable properties.Some linguistic expressions are ambiguous be-tween DISCOURSE AND NON-DISCOURSE US-AGE.
Consider for example the following sen-tences containing and and once.
?This work was partially supported by NSF grants IIS-0803159, IIS-0705671 and IGERT 0504487.
(1a) Selling picked up as previous buyers bailed out of theirpositions and aggressive short sellers?
anticipating fur-ther declines?moved in.
(1b) My favorite colors are blue and green.
(2a) The asbestos fiber, crocidolite, is unusually resilientonce it enters the lungs, with even brief exposures toit causing symptoms that show up decades later, re-searchers said.
(2b) A form of asbestos once used to make Kent cigarettefilters has caused a high percentage of cancer deathsamong a group of workers exposed to it more than 30years ago, researchers reported.In sentence (1a), and is a discourse connec-tive between the two clauses linked by an elabo-ration/expansion relation; in sentence (1b), the oc-currence of and is non-discourse.
Similarly in sen-tence (2a), once is a discourse connective markingthe temporal relation between the clauses ?The as-bestos fiber, crocidolite is unusually resilient?
and?it enters the lungs?.
In contrast, in sentence (2b),once occurs with a non-discourse sense, meaning?formerly?
and modifying ?used?.The only comprehensive study of discourse vs.non-discourse usage in written text1was done inthe context of developing a complete discourseparser for unrestricted text using surface features(Marcu, 2000).
Based on the findings from acorpus study, Marcu?s parser ?ignored both cuephrases that had a sentential role in a majority ofthe instances in the corpus and those that weretoo ambiguous to be explored in the context of asurface-based approach?.The other ambiguity that arises during dis-course processing involves DISCOURSE RELA-TION SENSE.
The discourse connective since for1The discourse vs. non-discourse usage ambiguity is evenmore problematic in spoken dialogues because there the num-ber of potential discourse markers is greater than that in writ-ten text, including common words such as now, well andokay.
Prosodic and acoustic features are the most powerfulindicators of discourse vs. non-discourse usage in that genre(Hirschberg and Litman, 1993; Gravano et al, 2007)13instance can signal either a temporal or a causalrelation as shown in the following examples fromMiltsakaki et al (2005):(3a) There have been more than 100 mergers and acquisi-tions within the European paper industry since the mostrecent wave of friendly takeovers was completed in theU.S.
in 1986.
(3b) It was a far safer deal for lenders since NWA had ahealthier cash flow and more collateral on hand.Most prior work on relation sense identifica-tion reports results obtained on data consisting ofboth explicit and implicit relations (Wellner et al,2006; Soricut and Marcu, 2003).
Implicit relationsare those inferred by the reader in the absence ofa discourse connective and so are hard to identifyautomatically.
Explicit relations are much easier(Pitler et al, 2008).In this paper, we explore the predictive power ofsyntactic features for both the discourse vs. non-discourse usage (Section 3) and discourse relationsense (Section 4) prediction tasks for explicit con-nectives in written text.
For both tasks we reporthigh classification accuracies close to 95%.2 Corpus and features2.1 Penn Discourse TreebankIn our work we use the Penn Discourse Treebank(PDTB) (Prasad et al, 2008), the largest publicresource containing discourse annotations.
Thecorpus contains annotations of 18,459 instancesof 100 explicit discourse connectives.
Each dis-course connective is assigned a sense from a three-level hierarchy of senses.
In our experimentswe consider only the top level categories: Ex-pansion (one clause is elaborating information inthe other), Comparison (information in the twoclauses is compared or contrasted), Contingency(one clause expresses the cause of the other), andTemporal (information in two clauses are relatedbecause of their timing).
These top-level discourserelation senses are general enough to be annotatedwith high inter-annotator agreement and are com-mon to most theories of discourse.2.2 Syntactic featuresSyntactic features have been extensively usedfor tasks such as argument identification: di-viding sentences into elementary discourse unitsamong which discourse relations hold (Soricutand Marcu, 2003; Wellner and Pustejovsky, 2007;Fisher and Roark, 2007; Elwell and Baldridge,2008).
Syntax has not been used for discourse vs.non-discourse disambiguation, but it is clear fromthe examples above that discourse connectives ap-pear in specific syntactic contexts.The syntactic features we used were extractedfrom the gold standard Penn Treebank (Marcus etal., 1994) parses of the PDTB articles:Self Category The highest node in the treewhich dominates the words in the connective butnothing else.
For single word connectives, thismight correspond to the POS tag of the word, how-ever for multi-word connectives it will not.
Forexample, the cue phrase in addition is parsed as(PP (IN In) (NP (NN addition) )).
While the POStags of ?in?
and ?addition?
are preposition andnoun, respectively, together the Self Category ofthe phrase is prepositional phrase.Parent Category The category of the immedi-ate parent of the Self Category.
This feature isespecially helpful for disambiguating cases simi-lar to example (1b) above in which the parent ofand would be an NP (the noun phrase ?blue andgreen?
), which will rarely be the case when andhas a discourse function.Left Sibling Category The syntactic categoryof the sibling immediately to the left of the SelfCategory.
If the left sibling does not exist, this fea-tures takes the value ?NONE?.
Note that having noleft sibling implies that the connective is the firstsubstring inside its Parent Category.
In example(1a), this feature would be ?NONE?, while in ex-ample (1b), the left sibling of and is ?NP?.Right Sibling Category The syntactic categoryof the sibling immediately to the right of the SelfCategory.
English is a right-branching language,and so dependents tend to occur after their heads.Thus, the right sibling is particularly important asit is often the dependent of the potential discourseconnective under investigation.
If the connectivestring has a discourse function, then this depen-dent will often be a clause (SBAR).
For example,the discourse usage in ?After I went to the store,I went home?
can be distinguished from the non-discourse usage in ?After May, I will go on vaca-tion?
based on the categories of their right siblings.Just knowing the syntactic category of the rightsibling is sometimes not enough; experiments onthe development set showed improvements by in-cluding more features about the right sibling.Consider the example below:(4) NASA won?t attempt a rescue; instead, it will try to pre-dict whether any of the rubble will smash to the ground14and where.The syntactic category of ?where?
is SBAR, so theset of features above could not distinguish the sin-gle word ?where?
from a full embedded clauselike ?I went to the store?.
In order to addressthis deficiency, we include two additional featuresabout the contents of the right sibling, Right Sib-ling Contains a VP and Right Sibling Containsa Trace.3 Discourse vs. non-discourse usageOf the 100 connectives annotated in the PDTB,only 11 appear as a discourse connective morethan 90% of the time: although, in turn, af-terward, consequently, additionally, alternatively,whereas, on the contrary, if and when, lest, and onthe one hand...on the other hand.
There is quitea range among the most frequent connectives: al-though appears as a discourse connective 91.4% ofthe time, while or only serves a discourse function2.8% of the times it appears.For training and testing, we used explicit dis-course connectives annotated in the PDTB as pos-itive examples and occurrences of the same stringsin the PDTB texts that were not annotated as ex-plicit connectives as negative examples.Sections 0 and 1 of the PDTB were used for de-velopment of the features described in the previoussection.
Here we report results using a maximumentropy classifier2using ten-fold cross-validationover sections 2-22.The results are shown in Table 3.
Using thestring of the connective as the only feature setsa reasonably high baseline, with an f-score of75.33% and an accuracy of 85.86%.
Interest-ingly, using only the syntactic features, ignoringthe identity of the connective, is even better, re-sulting in an f-score of 88.19% and accuracy of92.25%.
Using both the connective and syntacticfeatures is better than either individually, with anf-score of 92.28% and accuracy of 95.04%.We also experimented with combinations offeatures.
It is possible that different con-nectives have different syntactic contexts fordiscourse usage.
Including pair-wise interac-tion features between the connective and eachsyntactic feature (features like connective=also-RightSibling=SBAR) raised the f-score about1.5%, to 93.63%.
Adding interaction terms be-tween pairs of syntactic features raises the f-score2http://mallet.cs.umass.eduFeatures Accuracy f-score(1) Connective Only 85.86 75.33(2) Syntax Only 92.25 88.19(3) Connective+Syntax 95.04 92.28(3)+Conn-Syn Interaction 95.99 93.63(3)+Conn-Syn+Syn-Syn Interaction 96.26 94.19Table 1: Discourse versus Non-discourse Usageslightly more, to 94.19%.
These results amountto a 10% absolute improvement over those ob-tained by Marcu (2000) in his corpus-based ap-proach which achieves an f-score of 84.9%3foridentifying discourse connectives in text.
Whilebearing in mind that the evaluations were done ondifferent corpora and so are not directly compara-ble, as well as that our results would likely dropslightly if an automatic parser was used instead ofthe gold-standard parses, syntactic features provehighly beneficial for discourse vs. non-discourseusage prediction, as expected.4 Sense classificationWhile most connectives almost always occur withjust one of the senses (for example, because is al-most always a Contingency), a few are quite am-biguous.
For example since is often a Temporalrelation, but also often indicates Contingency.After developing syntactic features for the dis-course versus non-discourse usage task, we inves-tigated whether these same features would be use-ful for sense disambiguation.Experiments and results We do classification be-tween the four senses for each explicit relationand report results on ten-fold cross-validation oversections 2-22 of the PDTB using a Naive Bayesclassifier4.Annotators were allowed to provide two sensesfor a given connective; in these cases, we considereither sense to be correct5.
Contingency and Tem-poral are the senses most often annotated together.The connectives most often doubly annotated inthe PDTB are when (205/989), and (183/2999),and as (180/743).Results are shown in Table 4.
The sense clas-sification accuracy using just the connective is al-ready quite high, 93.67%.
Incorporating the syn-tactic features raises performance to 94.15% accu-3From the reported precision of 89.5% and recall of80.8%4We also ran a MaxEnt classifier and achieved quite sim-ilar but slightly lower results.5Counting only the first sense as correct leads to about 1%lower accuracy.15Features AccuracyConnective Only 93.67Connective+Syntax+Conn-Syn 94.15Interannotator agreement 94on sense class (Prasad et al, 2008)Table 2: Four-way sense classification of explicitsracy.
While the improvement is not huge, note thatwe seem to be approaching a performance ceiling.The human inter-annotator agreement on the toplevel sense class was also 94%, suggesting furtherimprovements may not be possible.
We providesome examples to give a sense of the type of er-rors that still occur.Error Analysis While Temporal relations are theleast frequent of the four senses, making up only19% of the explicit relations, more than half ofthe errors involve the Temporal class.
By farthe most commonly confused pairing was Contin-gency relations being classified as Temporal rela-tions, making up 29% of our errors.A random example of each of the most commontypes of errors is given below.
(5) Builders get away with using sand and financiers junk[when] society decides it?s okay, necessary even, tolook the other way.
Predicted: Temporal Correct:Contingency(6) You get a rain at the wrong time [and] the crop is ruined.Predicted: Expansion Correct: Contingency(7) In the nine months, imports rose 20% to 155.039 trillionlire [and] exports grew 18% to 140.106 trillion lire.Predicted: Expansion Correct: Comparison(8) [The biotechnology concern said] Spanish authoritiesmust still clear the price for the treatment [but] thatit expects to receive such approval by year end.
Pre-dicted: Comparison Correct: ExpansionExamples (6) and (7) show the relatively rarescenario when and does not signal expansion, andExample (8) shows but indicating a sense besidescomparison.
In these cases where the connectiveitself is not helpful in classifying the sense of therelation, it may be useful to incorporate featuresthat were developed for classifying implicit rela-tions (Sporleder and Lascarides, 2008).5 ConclusionWe have shown that using a few syntactic featuresleads to state-of-the-art accuracy for discourse vs.non-discourse usage classification.
Including syn-tactic features also helps sense class identification,and we have already attained results at the level ofhuman annotator agreement.
These results takentogether show that explicit discourse connectivescan be identified automatically with high accuracy.ReferencesR.
Elwell and J. Baldridge.
2008.
Discourse connec-tive argument identification with connective specificrankers.
In Proceedings of the International Confer-ence on Semantic Computing, Santa Clara, CA.S.
Fisher and B. Roark.
2007.
The utility of parse-derived features for automatic discourse segmenta-tion.
In Proceedings of ACL, pages 488?495.A.
Gravano, S. Benus, H. Chavez, J. Hirschberg, andL.
Wilcox.
2007.
On the role of context and prosodyin the interpretation of ?okay?.
In Proceedings ofACL, pages 800?807.J.
Hirschberg and D. Litman.
1993.
Empirical stud-ies on the disambiguation of cue phrases.
Computa-tional linguistics, 19(3):501?530.D.
Marcu.
2000.
The rhetorical parsing of unrestrictedtexts: A surface-based approach.
ComputationalLinguistics, 26(3):395?448.M.P.
Marcus, B. Santorini, and M.A.
Marcinkiewicz.1994.
Building a large annotated corpus of en-glish: The penn treebank.
Computational Linguis-tics, 19(2):313?330.E.
Miltsakaki, N. Dinesh, R. Prasad, A. Joshi, andB.
Webber.
2005.
Experiments on sense annota-tion and sense disambiguation of discourse connec-tives.
In Proceedings of the Fourth Workshop onTreebanks and Linguistic Theories (TLT 2005).E.
Pitler, M. Raghupathy, H. Mehta, A. Nenkova,A.
Lee, and A. Joshi.
2008.
Easily identifiable dis-course relations.
In COLING, short paper.R.
Prasad, N. Dinesh, A. Lee, E. Miltsakaki,L.
Robaldo, A. Joshi, and B. Webber.
2008.
Thepenn discourse treebank 2.0.
In Proceedings ofLREC?08.R.
Soricut and D. Marcu.
2003.
Sentence level dis-course parsing using syntactic and lexical informa-tion.
In HLT-NAACL.C.
Sporleder and A. Lascarides.
2008.
Using automat-ically labelled examples to classify rhetorical rela-tions: An assessment.
Natural Language Engineer-ing, 14:369?416.B.
Wellner and J. Pustejovsky.
2007.
Automaticallyidentifying the arguments of discourse connectives.In Proceedings of EMNLP-CoNLL, pages 92?101.B.
Wellner, J. Pustejovsky, C. Havasi, A. Rumshisky,and R. Sauri.
2006.
Classification of discourse co-herence relations: An exploratory study using mul-tiple knowledge sources.
In Proceedings of the 7thSIGdial Workshop on Discourse and Dialogue.16
