Proceedings of the ACL-IJCNLP 2009 Conference Short Papers, pages 25?28,Suntec, Singapore, 4 August 2009. c?2009 ACL and AFNLPCapturing Errors in Written Chinese WordsChao-Lin Liu1 Kan-Wen Tien2 Min-Hua Lai3 Yi-Hsuan Chuang4 Shih-Hung Wu51-4National Chengchi University, 5Chaoyang University of Technology, Taiwan{1chaolin, 296753027, 395753023, 494703036}@nccu.edu.tw, 5shwu@cyut.edu.twAbstractA collection of 3208 reported errors of Chinesewords were analyzed.
Among which, 7.2% in-volved rarely used character, and 98.4% wereassigned common classifications of their causesby human subjects.
In particular, 80% of the er-rors observed in writings of middle school stu-dents were related to the pronunciations and30% were related to the compositions of words.Experimental results show that using intuitiveWeb-based statistics helped us capture onlyabout 75% of these errors.
In a related task, theWeb-based statistics are useful for recommend-ing incorrect characters for composing test itemsfor "incorrect character identification" testsabout 93% of the time.1 IntroductionIncorrect writings in Chinese are related to our under-standing of the cognitive process of reading Chinese(e.g., Leck et al, 1995), to our understanding of whypeople produce incorrect characters and our offeringcorresponding remedies (e.g., Law et al, 2005), andto building an environment for assisting the prepara-tion of test items for assessing students?
knowledge ofChinese characters (e.g., Liu and Lin, 2008).Chinese characters are composed of smaller partsthat can carry phonological and/or semantic informa-tion.
A Chinese word is formed by Chinese characters.For example, ???
(Singapore) is a word that con-tains three Chinese characters.
The left (?)
and theright (?)
part of ?, respectively, carry semantic andphonological information.
Evidences show that pro-duction of incorrect characters are related to eitherphonological or the semantic aspect of the characters.In this study, we investigate several issues that arerelated to incorrect characters in Chinese words.
InSection 2, we present the sources of the reported er-rors.
In Section 3, we analyze the causes of the ob-served errors.
In Section 4, we explore the effective-ness of relying on Web-based statistics to correct theerrors.
The current results are encouraging but de-mand further improvements.
In Section 5, we employWeb-based statistics in the process of assisting teach-ers to prepare test items for assessing students?knowledge of Chinese characters.
Experimental re-sults showed that our method outperformed the onereported in (Liu and Lin, 2008), and captured the bestcandidates for incorrect characters 93% of the time.2 Data SourcesWe obtained data from three major sources.
A list thatcontains 5401 characters that have been believed to besufficient for everyday lives was obtained from theMinistry of Education (MOE) of Taiwan, and we callthe first list the Clist, henceforth.
We have two lists ofwords, and each word is accompanied by an incorrectway to write certain words.
The first list is from abook published by MOE (MOE, 1996).
The MOEprovided the correct words and specified the incorrectcharacters which were mistakenly used to replace thecorrect characters in the correct words.
The secondlist was collected, in 2008, from the written essays ofstudents of the seventh and the eighth grades in amiddle school in Taipei.
The incorrect words wereentered into computers based on students?
writings,ignoring those characters that did not actually existand could not be entered.We will call the first list of incorrect words theElist, and the second the Jlist from now on.
Elist andJlist contain, respectively, 1490 and 1718 entries.Each of these entries contains a correct word and theincorrect character.
Hence, we can reconstruct theincorrect words easily.
Two or more different ways toincorrectly write the same words were listed in differ-ent entries and considered as two entries for simplic-ity of presentation.3 Error Analysis of Written WordsTwo subjects, who are native speakers of Chinese andare graduate students in Computer Science, examinedElist and Jlist and categorized the causes of errors.They compared the incorrect characters with the cor-rect characters to determine whether the errors werepronunciation-related or semantic-related.
Referringto an error as being ?semantic-related?
is ambiguous.Two characters might not contain the same semanticpart, but are still semantically related.
In this study,we have not considered this factor.
For this reason werefer to the errors that are related to the sharing ofsemantic parts in characters as composition-related.It is interesting to learn that native speakers had ahigh consensus about the causes for the observed er-rors, but they did not always agree.
Hence, we studiedthe errors that the two subjects had agreed categoriza-tions.
Among the 1490 and 1718 words in Elist andJlist, respectively, the two human subjects had con-sensus over causes of 1441 and 1583 errors.The statistics changed when we disregarded errorsthat involved characters not included in Clist.
An er-ror would be ignored if either the correct or the incor-rect character did not belong to the Clist.
It is possiblefor students to write such rarely used characters in anincorrect word just by coincidence.After ignoring the rare characters, there were 1333and 1645 words in Elist and Jlist, respectively.
Thesubjects had consensus over the categories for 128525and 1515 errors in Elist and Jlist, respectively.Table 1 shows the percentages of five categories oferrors: C for the composition-related errors, P for thepronunciation-related errors, C&P for the intersectionof C and P, NE for those errors that belonged to nei-ther C nor P, and D for those errors that the subjectsdisagreed on the error categories.
There were, respec-tively, 505 composition-related and 1314 pronuncia-tion-related errors in Jlist, so we see 30.70%(=505/1645) and 79.88% (=1314/1645) in the table.Notice that C&P represents the intersection of C andP, so we have to deduct C&P from the sum of C, P,NE, and D to find the total probability, namely 1.It is worthwhile to discuss the implication of thestatistics in Table 1.
For the Jlist, similarity betweenpronunciations accounted for nearly 80% of the errors,and the ratio for the errors that are related to composi-tions and pronunciations is 1:2.6.
In contrast, for theElist, the corresponding ratio is almost 1:1.
The Jlistand Elist differed significantly in the ratios of the er-ror types.
It was assumed that the dominance of pro-nunciation-related errors in electronic documents wasa result of the popularity of entering Chinese withpronunciation-based methods.
The ratio for the Jlistchallenges this popular belief, and indicates that eventhough the errors occurred during a writing process,rather than typing on computers, students still pro-duced more pronunciation-related errors than compo-sition-related errors.
Distribution over error types isnot as related to input method as one may have be-lieved.
Nevertheless, the observation might still be aresult of students being so used to entering Chinesetext with pronunciation-based method that the organi-zation of their mental lexicons is also pronunciationrelated.
The ratio for the Elist suggests that editors ofthe MOE book may have chosen the examples with aspecial viewpoint in their minds ?
balancing the errorsdue to pronunciation and composition.4 Reliability of Web-based StatisticsIn this section, we examine the effectiveness of usingWeb-based statistics to differentiate correct and incor-rect characters.
The abundant text material on theInternet gives people to treat the Web as a corpus (e.g.,webascorpus.org).
When we send a query to Google,we will be informed of the number of pages (NOPs)that possibly contain relevant information.
If we putthe query terms in quotation marks, we should findthe web pages that literally contain the query terms.Hence, it is possible for us to compare the NOPs fortwo competing phrases for guessing the correct wayof writing.
At the time of this writing, Google found107000 and 3220 pages, respectively, for ?strong tea?and ?powerful tea?.
(When conducting such advancedsearches with Google, the quotation marks are neededto ensure the adjacency of individual words.)
Hence,?strong?
appears to be a better choice to go with ?tea?.How does this strategy serve for learners of Chinese?We verified this strategy by sending the words inboth the Elist and the Jlist to Google to find the NOPs.We can retrieve the NOPs from the documents re-turned by Google, and compare the NOPs for the cor-rect and the incorrect words to evaluate the strategy.Again, we focused on those in the 5401 words that thehuman subjects had consensus about their error types.Recall that we have 1285 and 1515 such words inElist and Jlist, respectively.
As the information avail-able on the Web changes all the time, we also have tonote that our experiments were conducted during thefirst half of March 2009.
The queries were submittedat reasonable time intervals to avoid Google?s treatingour programs as malicious attackers.Table 2 shows the results of our investigation.
Weconsidered that we had a correct result when we foundthat the NOP for the correct word larger than the NOPfor the incorrect word.
If the NOPs were equal, werecorded an ambiguous result; and when the NOP forthe incorrect word is larger, we recorded an incorrectevent.
We use ?C?, ?A?, and ?I?
to denote ?correct?,?ambiguous?, and ?incorrect?
events in Table 2.The column headings of Table 2 show the settingof the searches with Google and the set of words thatwere used in the experiments.
We asked Google tolook for information from web pages that were en-coded in traditional Chinese (denoted Trad).
Wecould add another restriction on the source of infor-mation by asking Google to inspect web pages frommachines in Taiwan (denoted Twn+Trad).
We werenot sure how Google determined the languages andlocations of the information sources, but chose to trustGoogle.
The headings ?Comp?
and ?Pron?
indicatewhether the words whose error types were composi-tion and pronunciation-related, respectively.Table 2 shows eight distributions, providing ex-perimental results that we observed under differentsettings.
The distribution printed in bold face showedthat, when we gathered information from sources thatwere encoded in traditional Chinese, we found thecorrect words 73.12% of the time for words whoseerror types were related to composition in Elist.
Underthe same experimental setting, we could not judge thecorrect word 4.58% of the time, and would have cho-sen an incorrect word 22.30% of the time.Statistics in Table 2 indicate that web statistics isnot a very reliable factor to judge the correct words.The average of the eight numbers in the ?C?
rows isonly 71.54% and the best sample is 76.59%, suggest-Table 2.
Reliability of Web-based statisticsTrad Twn+TradComp Pron Comp PronC 73.12% 73.80% 69.92% 68.72%A 4.58% 3.76% 3.83% 3.76%ElistI 22.30% 22.44% 26.25% 27.52%C 76.59% 74.98% 69.34% 65.87%A 2.26% 3.97% 2.47% 5.01%JlistI 21.15% 21.05% 28.19% 29.12%Table 1.
Error analysis for Elist and JlistC P C&P NE DElist 66.09% 67.21% 37.13% 0.23% 3.60%Jlist 30.70% 79.88% 20.91% 2.43% 7.90%26ing that we did not find the correct words frequently.We would made incorrect judgments 24.75% of thetime.
The statistics also show that it is almost equallydifficult to find correct words for errors that are com-position and pronunciation related.
In addition, thestatistics reveal that choosing more features in theadvanced search affected the final results.
Using?Trad?
offered better results in our experiments thanusing ?Twn+Trad?.
This observation may arouse aperhaps controversial argument.
Although Taiwan hasproclaimed to be the major region to use traditionalChinese, their web pages might not have used as ac-curate Chinese as web pages located in other regions.We have analyzed the reasons for why using Web-based statistics did not find the correct words.
Fre-quencies might not have been a good factor to deter-mine the correctness of Chinese.
However, the myriadamount of data on the Web should have provided abetter performance.
Google?s rephrasing our submit-ted queries is an important factor, and, in other cases,incorrect words were more commonly used.5 Facilitating Test Item AuthoringIncorrect character correction is a very popular type oftest in Taiwan.
There are simple test items for youngchildren, and there are very challenging test items forthe competitions among adults.
Finding an attractiveincorrect character to replace a correct character toform a test item is a key step in authoring test items.We have been trying to build a software environ-ment for assisting the authoring of test items for in-correct character correction (Liu and Lin, 2008, Liu etal., 2009).
It should be easy to find a lexicon that con-tains pronunciation information about Chinese charac-ters.
In contrast, it might not be easy to find visuallysimilar Chinese characters with computational meth-ods.
We expanded the original Cangjie codes (OCC),and employed the expanded Cangjie codes (ECC) tofind visually similar characters (Liu and Lin, 2008).With a lexicon, we can find characters that can bepronounced in a particular way.
However, this is notenough for our goal.
We observed that there weredifferent symptoms when people used incorrect char-acters that are related to their pronunciations.
Theymay use characters that could be pronounced exactlythe same as the correct characters.
They may also usecharacters that have the same pronunciation and dif-ferent tones with the correct character.
Although rela-tively infrequently, people may use characters whosepronunciations are similar to but different from thepronunciation of the correct character.As Liu and Lin (2008) reported, replacing OCCwith ECC to find visually similar characters couldincrease the chances to find similar characters.
Yet, itwas not clear as to which components of a charactershould use ECC.5.1 Formalizing the Extended Cangjie CodesWe analyzed the OCCs for all the words in Clist todetermine the list of basic components.
We treated aCangjie basic symbol as if it was a word, and com-puted the number of occurrences of n-grams based onthe OCCs of the words in Clist.
Since the OCC for acharacter contains at most five symbols, the longest n-grams are 5-grams.
Because the reason to use ECCwas to find common components in characters, wedisregarded n-grams that repeated no more than threetimes.
In addition, the n-grams that appeared morethan three times might not represent an actual compo-nent in Chinese characters.
Hence, we also removedsuch n-grams from the list of our basic components.This process naturally made our list include radicalsthat are used to categorize Chinese characters in typi-cal printed dictionaries.
The current list contains 794components, and it is possible to revise the list of ba-sic components in our work whenever necessary.After selecting the list of basic components withthe above procedure, we encoded the words in Elistwith our list of basic components.
We adopted the 12ways that Liu and Lin (2008) employed to decomposeChinese characters.
There are other methods for de-composing Chinese characters into components.Juang et al (2005) and the research team at the SinicaAcademia propose 13 different ways for decomposingcharacters.5.2 Recommending Incorrect AlternativesWith a dictionary that provides the pronunciation ofChinese characters and the improved ECC encodingsfor words in the Elist, we can create lists of candidatecharacters for replacing a specific correct character ina given word to create a test item for incorrect charac-ter correction.There are multiple strategies to create the candidatelists.
We may propose the candidate characters be-cause their pronunciations have the same sound andthe same tone with those of the correct character (de-noted SSST).
Characters that have same sounds anddifferent tones (SSDT), characters that have similarsounds and same tones (MSST), and characters thathave similar sounds and different tones (MSDT) canbe considered as candidates as well.
It is easy to judgewhether two Chinese characters have the same tone.In contrast, it is not trivial to define ?similar?
sound.We adopted the list of similar sounds that was pro-vided by a psycholinguistic researcher (Dr. Chia-YingLee) at the Sinica Academia.In addition, we may propose characters that looksimilar to the correct character.
Two characters maylook similar for two reasons.
They may contain thesame components, or they contain the same radicaland have the same total number of strokes (RS).When two characters contain the same component, theshared component might or might not locate at thesame position within the bounding boxes of characters.In an authoring tool, we could recommend a lim-ited number of candidate characters for replacing thecorrect character.
We tried two strategies to compareand choose the visually similar characters.
The firststrategy (denoted SC1) gave a higher score to theshared component that located at the same location inthe two characters being compared.
The second strat-27egy (SC2) gave the same score to any shared compo-nent even if the component did not reside at the samelocation in the characters.
When there were more than20 characters that receive nonzero scores, we chose toselect at most 20 characters that had leading scores asthe list of recommended characters.5.3 Evaluating the RecommendationsWe examined the usefulness of these seven categoriesof candidates with errors in Elist and Jlist.
The firstset of evaluation (the inclusion tests) checked onlywhether the lists of recommended characters con-tained the incorrect character in our records.
The sec-ond set of evaluation (the ranking tests) was designedfor practical application in computer assisted itemgeneration.
Only for those words whose actual incor-rect characters were included in the recommended list,we replaced the correct characters in the words withthe candidate incorrect characters, submitted the in-correct words to Google, and ordered the candidatecharacters based on their NOPs.
We then recorded theranks of the incorrect characters among all recom-mended characters.Since the same character may appear simultane-ously in SC1, SC2, and RS, we computed the union ofthese three sets, and checked whether the incorrectcharacters were in the union.
The inclusion rate islisted under Comp.
Similarly, we computed the unionfor SSST, SSDT, MSST, and MSDT, checked whetherthe incorrect characters were in the union, and re-corded the inclusion rate under Pron.
Finally, wecomputed the union of the lists created by the sevenstrategies, and recorded the inclusion rate under Both.The second and the third rows of Table 3 show theresults of the inclusion tests.
The data show the per-centage of the incorrect characters being included inthe lists that were recommended by the seven strate-gies.
Notice that the percentages were calculated withdifferent denominators.
The number of composition-related errors was used for SC1, SC2, RS, and Comp(e.g.
505 that we mentioned in Section 3 for the Jlist);the number of pronunciation-related errors for SSST,SSDT, MSST, MSDT, and Pron (e.g., 1314 mentionedin Section 3 for the Jlist); the number of either ofthese two errors for Both (e.g., 1475 for Jlist).The results recorded in Table 3 show that we wereable to find the incorrect character quite effectively,achieving better than 93% for both Elist and Jlist.
Thestatistics also show that it is easier to find incorrectcharacters that were used for pronunciation-relatedproblems.
Most of the pronunciation-related problemswere misuses of characters that had exactly the samepronunciations with the correct characters.
Unex-pected confusions, e.g., those related to pronuncia-tions in Chinese dialects, were the main for the failureto capture the pronunciation-related errors.
SSDT is acrucial complement to SSST.
There is still room toimprove our methods to find confusing charactersbased on their compositions.
We inspected the listgenerated by SC1 and SC2, and found that, althoughSC2 outperformed SC1 on the inclusion rate, SC1 andSC2 actually generated complementary lists andshould be used together.
The inclusion rate achievedby the RS strategy was surprisingly high.The fourth and the fifth rows of Table 3 show theeffectiveness of relying on Google to rank the candi-date characters for recommending an incorrect charac-ter.
The rows show the average ranks of the includedcases.
The statistics show that, with the help ofGoogle, we were able to put the incorrect character ontop of the recommended list when the incorrect char-acter was included.
This allows us to build an envi-ronment for assisting human teachers to efficientlyprepare test items for incorrect character identification.6 SummaryThe analysis of the 1718 errors produced by real stu-dents show that similarity between pronunciations ofcompeting characters contributed most to the ob-served errors.
Evidences show that the Web statisticsare not very reliable for differentiating correct andincorrect characters.
In contrast, the Web statistics aregood for comparing the attractiveness of incorrectcharacters for computer assisted item authoring.AcknowledgementsThis research has been funded in part by the NationalScience Council of Taiwan under the grant NSC-97-2221-E-004-007-MY2.
We thank the anonymous re-viewers for invaluable comments, and more responsesto the comments are available in (Liu et al 2009).ReferencesD.
Juang, J.-H. Wang, C.-Y.
Lai, C.-C. Hsieh, L.-F. Chien,J.-M. Ho.
2005.
Resolving the unencoded characterproblem for Chinese digital libraries, Proc.
of the 5thACM/IEEE Joint Conf.
on Digital Libraries, 311?319.S.-P. Law, W. Wong, K. M. Y. Chiu.
2005.
Whole-wordphonological representations of disyllabic words in theChinese lexicon: Data from acquired dyslexia, Behav-ioural Neurology, 16, 169?177.K.
J. Leck, B. S. Weekes, M. J. Chen.
1995.
Visual andphonological pathways to the lexicon: Evidence fromChinese readers, Memory & Cognition, 23(4), 468?476.C.-L. Liu et al 2009.
Phonological and logographic influ-ences on errors in written Chinese words, Proc.
of the 7thWorkshop on Asian Language Resources, 47th ACL.C.-L. Liu, J.-H. Lin.
2008.
Using structural information foridentifying similar Chinese characters, Proc.
of the 46thACL, short papers, 93?96.MOE.
1996.
Common Errors in Chinese Writings (??????
), Ministry of Education, Taiwan.Table 3.
Incorrect characters were contained and ranked high in the recommended listsSC1 SC2 RS SSST SSDT MSST MSDT Comp Pron BothElist 73.92% 76.08% 4.08% 91.64% 18.39% 3.01% 1.67% 81.97% 99.00% 93.37%Jlist 67.52% 74.65% 6.14% 92.16% 20.24% 4.19% 3.58% 77.62% 99.32% 97.29%Elist 3.25 2.91 1.89 2.30 1.85 2.00 1.58Jlist 2.82 2.64 2.19 3.72 2.24 2.77 1.1628
