Proceedings of the ACL-IJCNLP 2009 Conference Short Papers, pages 209?212,Suntec, Singapore, 4 August 2009.c?2009 ACL and AFNLPPlay the Language: Play CoreferenceBarbora Hladk?a and Ji?r??
M?
?rovsk?y and Pavel SchlesingerCharles University in PragueInstitute of Formal and Applied Linguisticse-mail: {hladka, mirovsky, schlesinger@ufal.mff.cuni.cz}AbstractWe propose the PlayCoref game, whosepurpose is to obtain substantial amount oftext data with the coreference annotation.We provide a description of the game de-sign that covers the strategy, the instruc-tions for the players, the input texts selec-tion and preparation, and the score evalua-tion.1 IntroductionA collection of high quality data is resource-demanding regardless of the area of research andtype of the data.
This fact has encouraged aformulation of an alternative way of data col-lection, ?Games With a Purpose?
methodology(GWAP), (van Ahn and Dabbish, 2008).
TheGWAP methodology exploits the capacity of Inter-net users who like to play on-line games.
The on-line games are being designed to generate data forapplications that either have not been implementedyet, or have already been implemented with a per-formance lower than human.
Moreover, the play-ers work simply by playing the game - the data aregenerated as a by-product of the game.
If the gameis enjoyable, it brings human resources and savesfinancial resources.
The game popularity bringsmore game sessions and thus more annotated data.The GWAP methodology was formulated inparallel with design and implementation of theon-line games with images (van Ahn and Dab-bish, 2004) and subsequently with tunes (Lawet al, 2007),1in which the players try to agreeon a caption of the image/tune.
The popularity ofthe games is enormous so the authors have suc-ceeded in the basic requirement that the annota-tion is generated in a substantial amount.
Thenthe Onto games appeared (Siorpaes and Hepp,1www.gwap.org2008), bringing a new type of input data to GWAP,namely video and text.2The situation with text seems to be slightly dif-ferent.
One has to read a text in order to identifyits topics, which takes more time than observingimages, and the longer text, the worse.
Since thegame must be of a dynamic character, it is unimag-inable that the players will spend minutes readingan input text.
Therefore, the text must be openedto the players ?part?
by ?part?.So far, besides the Onto games, two more gameswith texts have been designed: What did Shan-non say?3, the goal of which is to help the speechrecognizer with difficult-to-recognize words, andPhrase Detectives4(Kruschwitz, Chamberlain,Poesio, 2009), the goal of which is to identify re-lationships between words and phrases in a text.Motivated by the GWAP portal, the LGame por-tal5has been established.
Seven key propertiesthat any game on the LGame portal will satisfywere formulated ?
see Table 1.The LGame portal has been opened with theShannon game, a game of intentionally hiddenwords in the sentence, where players guess them,and the Place the Space game, a game of wordsegmentation.Within a systematic framework established atthe LGame portal, the games PlayCoref, PlayNE,PlayDoc devoted to the linguistic phenomenadealing with the contents of documents, namelycoreference, named-entitites, and document la-bels, respectively, are being designed in parallelbut implemented subsequently since the GWAPsare open-ended stories the success of which is hardto estimate in advance.
These games are designedfor Czech and English by default.
However, thegame rules are language independent.2www.ontogame.org3lingo.clsp.jhu.edushannongame.html4www.phrasedetectives.org5www.lgame.cz2091.
During the game, the data are collected for the naturallanguage processing tasks that computers cannot solveat all or not well enough.2.
Playing the game only requires a basic knowledgeof the grammar of the language of the game.
No extralinguistic knowledge is required.3.
The game rules are designed independently of thelanguage of the game.4.
The game is designed for Czech and English by de-fault.5.
During the game, the players have at least a generalidea of what their opponent(s) do.6.
The game is designed for at least two players (also acomputer can be an opponent).7.
The game offers several levels of difficulty (to fit avast range of players).Table 1: Key properties of the games on the LGame portal.We have decided to implement the PlayCoreffirst.
Coreference crosses the sentence boundariesand playing coreference offers a great opportunityto test players?
willingness to read a text part bypart, e.g.
sentence by sentence.
In this paper, wediscuss various aspects of the PlayCoref design.2 CoreferenceCoreference occurs when several referring expres-sions in a text refer to the same entity (e.g.
per-son, thing, reality).
A coreferential pair is markedbetween subsequent pairs of the referring expres-sions.
A sequence of coreferential pairs referringto the same entity in a text forms a coreferencechain.Various projects on the coreference annotationby linguists are running.
We mention two ofthem ?
the Prague Dependency Treebank 2.0 andthe coreference task for the sixth Message Under-standing Conference.Prague Dependency Treebank 2.0 (PDT 2.0)6is the only corpus establishing the coreferenceannotation on a layer of meaning, so-called tec-togrammatical layer (t-layer).
The annotation in-cludes grammatical and textual coreference.
Ex-tended textual coreference (covering additionalcategories) is being annotated in PDT 2.0 in an on-going project (Nedoluzhko, 2007).Sixth Message Understanding Conference ?
thecoreference task (MUC-6)7operates on a sur-face layer.
The coreferential pairs are marked be-tween pairs of the categories nouns, noun phrases,and pronouns.6ufal.mff.cuni.cz/pdt2.07cs.nyu.edu/faculty/grishman/muc6.html3 The PlayCoref GameMotivation The PDT 2.0 coreference annota-tion (including the annotation scheme design,training of the annotators, technical and linguisticsupport, and annotation corrections) spanned theperiod from summer 2002 till autumn 2004.
Eachof two annotators annotated one half out of 3,165documents.
We are aware that coreferential pairsmarked in the PlayCoref sessions may differ fromthe PDT 2.0 coreference annotation.
However,the following estimates reinforce our motivationto use the GWAP technology on texts: assumingthat (1) the PlayCoref is designed as a two-playergame, (2) at least one document is being presentin each session, (3) the session lasts up to 5 min-utes and (4) the players play half an hour a day,then at least 6 documents will be processed a dayby two players.
This means that 3,165 documentswill be annotated by two players in 528 days, byeight players in 132 days, by 32 players in 33 daysetc., and by 128 players in 9 days.Strategy The game is designed for two players.The game starts with several first sentences of thedocument displayed in the players?
sentence win-dow.
According to the restrictions put on the mem-bers of the coreferential pairs, parts of the text areunlocked while the other parts are locked.
Onlyunlocked parts of the text are allowed to becomea member of the coreferential pair.
In our case,only nouns and selected pronouns are unlocked.8In Table 2, we provide a list of the locked pro-noun?s sub-part-of-speech classes (as designed inthe Czech positional tag system).
Pronouns ofthe other sub-part-of-speech classes are unlocked.The selection of the locked pronoun?s sub-part-of-speech classes is based on the fact that some typesof pronouns usually corefer with parts of the textlarger than one word.
This type of coreferencecannot be annotated without a linguistic knowl-edge and without training.
Therefore it must beomitted for the purposes of the PlayCoref game.The players mark coreferential pairs betweenthe unlocked words in the text (no phrases are al-lowed).
They mark the coreferential pairs as undi-rected links.9After the session, the coreference8A tagging procedure is used to get the part-of-speechclasses of the words.9This strategy differs from the general conception ofcoreference being understood as either the anaphoric or cat-aphoric relation depending on ?direction?
of the link in thetext.
We believe that the players will benefit from this sim-210Locked pronouns: subPOS and its descriptionD Demonstrative (?ten?, ?onen?, ..., lit.
?this?, ?that?, ?that?, ...?over there?, ... )E Relative ?co?z?
(corresponding to English which in subordinateclauses referring to a part of the preceding text)L Indefinite ?v?sechen?, ?s?am?
(lit.
?all?, ?alone?
)O ?sv?uj?, ?nesv?uj?, ?tentam?
alone (lit.
?own self?, ?not-in-mood?,?gone?
)Q Relative/interrogative ?co?, ?copak?, ?co?zpak?
(lit.
?what?, ?isn?t-it-true-that?
)W Negative (?nic?, ?nikdo?, ?nijak?y?, ?
?z?adn?y?, ..., lit.
?nothing?,?nobody?, ?not-worth-mentioning?, ?no?/?none?
)Y Relative/interrogative ?co?
as an enclitic (after a preposition)(?o?c?, ?na?c?, ?za?c?, lit.
?about what?, ?on?/?onto?
?what?, ?af-ter?/?for what?
)Z Indefinite (?n?ejak?y?, ?n?ekter?y?, ??c?
?koli?, ?cosi?, ..., lit.
?some?,?some?, ?anybody?s?, ?something?
)Table 2: List of the pronoun?s sub-part-of-speech classes inthe Czech positional tag system locked for the PlayCoref.chains are automatically reconstructed from thecoreferential pairs marked.During the session, the number of words theopponent has linked into the coreferential pairs isdisplayed to the player.
The number of sentenceswith at least one coreferential pair marked by theopponent is displayed to the player as well.
Re-vealing more information about the opponent?s ac-tions would affect the independency of the play-ers?
decisions.If the player finishes pairing all the relatedwords in a visible part of the document (visibleto him), he asks for the next sentence of the docu-ment.
It appears at the bottom of his sentence win-dow.
The player can remove pairs created beforeat any time and can make new pairs in the sen-tences read so far.
The session goes on this wayuntil the end of the session time.Instructions for the Players Instructions for theplayers must be as comprehensible and concise aspossible.
To mark a coreferential pair, no linguis-tic knowledge is required.
It is all about the textcomprehension ability.Input Texts In the first stage of the project, doc-uments from PDT 2.0 and MUC-6 will be used inthe sessions, so that the quality of the game datacan be evaluated against the manual coreferenceannotation.Since the PDT 2.0 coreference annotation oper-ates on the tectogrammatical layer and PlayCorefon the surface layer, the coreferential pairs of the t-layer must be projected to the surface first.
The ba-sic steps of the projection are depicted in Figure 1.Going from the t-layer, some of the coreferentialplification and that the quality of the game data will not bedecreased.pairs get lost because their members do not havetheir counterparts on surface.10From the remain-ing coreferential pairs, those between nouns andunlocked pronouns are selected.
In the final gamedocuments, the difference between the grammat-ical, textual and extended textual coreference isomitted, because the players will not be asked todistinguish them.
Table 3 shows the number ofcoreferential pairs in various stages of the projec-tion.DEEPSURFGRAM DEEPSURFTEXTDEEPSURFGRAM DEEPSURFTEXT DEEPSURFEX TT EE XN TDPDT 2.0 PDT 2.0+ ext.
textualcoreference surfacesubsetGRAMSURFunlockedTEXTSURFunlockedEXTENDTEXTSURFunlockedPlayCorefdatalockedunlockedG  SR  UA  RM  F lockedunlockedT  SE  UX  RT  F lockedunlockedE    T  SE  UX  RT  FFigure 1: Projection of the PDT coreference annotation tothe surface layer.
The first step depicts the annotation of theextended textual coreference.
Pairs that have no surface coun-terparts are marked DEEP, pairs with surface counterpartsare marked SURF.
Pairs suitable for the game are marked un-locked.Data from the coreference task on the sixthMessage Understanding Conference can be usedin a much more straightforward way.
Coreferenceis annotated on the surface and no projection isneeded.
The links with noun phrases are disre-garded.PDT 2.0 PDT 2.0 surface PlayCoref+ ext.
subset# coref.
pairs 45 96 70 33Table 3: Number of coreferential pairs (in thousands) invarious stages of projection.
Counts in the second, third andfourth columns are extrapolated on the basis of data anno-tated so far, which is about 200 thousand word tokens in 12thousand sentences (out of 833 thousand tokens in 49 thou-sand sentences in PDT 2.0).
Type of the coreferential pairs,either grammatical or textual one, is not distinguished.Scoring The players get points for their coref-erential pairs according to the equation ptsA=w1?ICA(A, acr)+w2?ICA(A,B) where A andB are the players, acr is an automatic coreferenceresolution procedure, weights 0 ?
w1, w2?
1,w1, w2?
R are set empirically, and ICA stands forthe inter-coder agreement that we can simultane-ously express either by the F-measure or Krippen-10Czech is a ?pro-drop?
language, in which the subject pro-noun on ?he?
has a zero form (also in feminine, plural, etc.
).211D E PFigure 2: Player ?1?
pairs (A,C) ?
the dotted curve; player?2?
pairs (A,B) and (B,C) ?
the solid lines; player ?3?
pairs(A,B) and (A,C) ?
the dashed curves.
Although players ?1?and ?2?
do not agree on the coreferential pairs at all, ?1?
and?3?
agree only on (A,C) and ?2?
and ?3?
agree only on (A,B),for the purposes of the coreference chains reconstruction, theplayers?
agreement is higher: players ?1?
and ?2?
agree on twomembers of the coreferential chain: A and C, players ?1?
and?3?
agree on A and C as well, and players ?2?
and ?3?
achievedagreement even on all three members: A, B, and C.dorff?s ?
(Artstein and Poesio, 2008).
The scoreis calculated at the end of the session and no run-ning score is being presented during the session.Otherwise, the players might adjust their decisionsaccording to the changes in the score.
Obviously,it is undesirable.Assigning a score to the players deals with thecoreferential pairs.
However, motivated by (Pas-sonneau, 2004) and others, the evaluation handlesthe coreferential pairs in a way demonstrated inFigure 2.PlayCoref vs. PhraseDetectives At least toour knowledge, there are no other GWAPs deal-ing with the relationship among words in a textlike PhraseDetectives and PlayCoref.
Neverthe-less, there are many differences between these twogames ?
the main ones are enumerated in Table 4.PlayCoref PhraseDetectivesdetection of coreferencechainsanaphora resolutiontwo-player game one-player gamea document presented sen-tence by sentencea paragraph presented atonce?
checking the pairs markedin the previous sessionspairing not restricted to theposition in the textthe closest antecedentsimple instructions players trainingscoring with respect to theautomatic coreference reso-lution and to the opponent?spairsscoring with respect to theplayers that play with thesame document beforecoreferential pairs correc-tionno corrections allowedTable 4: PlayCoref vs. PhraseDetectives.4 ConclusionWe propose the PlayCoref game, a concept of aGWAP with texts that aims at getting the docu-ments with the coreference annotation in substan-tially larger volume than can be obtained fromexperts.
In the proposed game, we introducecoreference to the players in a way that no lin-guistic knowledge is required from them.
Wepresent the game rules design, the preparation ofthe game documents and the evaluation of theplayers?
score.
A short comparison with a simi-lar project is also provided.AcknowledgmentsWe gratefully acknowledge the support of theCzech Ministry of Education (grants MSM-0021620838 and LC536), the Czech GrantAgency (grant 405/09/0729), and the GrantAgency of Charles University in Prague (projectGAUK 138309).ReferencesRon Artstein, Massimo Poesio.
2008.
Inter-Coder Agree-ment for Computational Linguistics.
Computational Lin-guistics, December 2008, vol.
34, no.
4, pp.
555?596.Udo Kruschwitz, Jon Chamberlain, Massimo Poesio.
2009.
(Linguistic) Science Through Web Collaboration in theANAWIKI project.
In Proceedings of the WebSci?09: So-ciety On-Line, Athens, Greece, in press.Lucie Ku?cov?a, Eva Haji?cov?a.
2005.
Coreferential Relationsin the Prague Dependency Treebank.
In Proceedings ofthe 5th International Conference on Discourse Anaphoraand Anaphor Resolution, San Miguel, Azores, pp.
97?102.Edith.
L. M. Law et al 2007.
Tagatune: A game for musicand sound annotation.
In Proceedings of the Music In-formation Retrieval Conference, Austrian Computer Soc.,pp.
361?364.Anna Nedoluzhko.
2007.
Zpr?ava k anotov?an??
roz?s??
?ren?etextov?e koreference a bridging vztah?u v Pra?zsk?emz?avoslostn?
?m korpusu (Annotating extended coreferenceand bridging relations in PDT).
Technical Report, UFAL,MFF UK, Prague, Czech Republic.Rebecca J. Passonneau.
2004.
Computing Reliability forCoreference.
Proceedings of LREC, vol.
4, pp.
1503?1506, Lisbon.Katharina Siorpaes and Martin Hepp.
2008.
Games with apurpose for the Semantic Web.
IEEE Intelligent SystemsVol.
23, number 3, pp.
50?60.Luis van Ahn and Laura Dabbish.
2004.
Labelling imageswith a computer game.
In Proceedings of the SIGHI Con-ference on Human Factors in Computing Systems, ACMPress, New York, pp.
319?326.Luis van Ahn and Laura Dabbish.
2008.
Designing Gameswith a Purpose.
Communications of the ACM, vol.
51,No.
8, pp.
58?67.212
