Proceedings of the ACL-IJCNLP 2009 Conference Short Papers, pages 253?256,Suntec, Singapore, 4 August 2009.c?2009 ACL and AFNLPPrediction of Thematic Rank for Structured Semantic Role LabelingWeiwei Sun and Zhifang Sui and Meng WangInstitute of Computational LinguisticsPeking UniversityKey Laboratory of Computational LinguisticsMinistry of Education, Chinaweiwsun@gmail.com;{wm,szf}@pku.edu.cnAbstractIn Semantic Role Labeling (SRL), it is rea-sonable to globally assign semantic rolesdue to strong dependencies among argu-ments.
Some relations between argumentssignificantly characterize the structural in-formation of argument structure.
In thispaper, we concentrate on thematic hierar-chy that is a rank relation restricting syn-tactic realization of arguments.
A log-linear model is proposed to accuratelyidentify thematic rank between two argu-ments.
To import structural information,we employ re-ranking technique to incor-porate thematic rank relations into localsemantic role classification results.
Exper-imental results show that automatic pre-diction of thematic hierarchy can help se-mantic role classification.1 IntroductionIn Semantic Role Labeling (SRL), it is evident thatthe arguments in one sentence are highly corre-lated.
For example, a predicate will have no morethan one Agent in most cases.
It is reasonable tolabel one argument while taking into account otherarguments.
More structural information of all ar-guments should be encoded in SRL approaches.This paper explores structural information ofpredicate-argument structure from the perspec-tive of rank relations between arguments.
The-matic hierarchy theory argues that there exists alanguage independent rank of possible semanticroles, which establishes priority among argumentswith respect to their syntactic realization (Levinand Hovav, 2005).
This construct has been widelyimplicated in linguistic phenomena, such as in thesubject selection rule of Fillmore?s Case Grammar(1968): ?If there is an A [=Agent], it becomes thesubject; otherwise, if there is an I [=Instrument],it becomes the subject; otherwise, the subject isthe O [=Object, i.e., Patient/Theme]?.
This ruleimplicitly establishes precedence relations amongsemantic roles mentioned and can be simplified to:Agent  Instrument  Patient/ThemeEmerging from a range of more basic semanticproperties of the ranked semantic roles, thematichierarchies can help to construct mapping from se-mantics to syntax.
It is therefore an appealing op-tion for argument structure analysis.
For example,if the the rank of argument aiis shown higher thanaj, then the assignment [ai=Patient, aj=Agent] isillegal, since the role Agent is the highest role.We test the hypothesis that thematic rank be-tween arguments can be accurately detected byusing syntax clues.
In this paper, the concept?thematic rank?
between two arguments aiand ajmeans the relationship that aiis prior to ajor ajisprior to ai.
Assigning different labels to differentrelations between aiand aj, we formulate predic-tion of thematic rank between two arguments as amulti-class classification task.
A log-linear modelis put forward for classification.
Experiments onCoNLL-2005 data show that this approach canget an good performance, achieving 96.42% ac-curacy on gold parsing data and 95.14% accuracyon Charniak automatic parsing data.Most existing SRL systems divide this task intotwo subtasks: Argument Identification (AI) andSemantic Role Classification (SRC).
To add struc-tural information to a local SRL approach, we in-corporate thematic hierarchy relations into localclassification results using re-ranking techniquein the SRC stage.
Two re-ranking approaches,1) hard constraint re-ranking and 2) soft con-straint re-ranking, are proposed to filter out un-like global semantic role assignment.
Experimentson CoNLL-2005 data indicate that our methodcan yield significant improvement over a state-of-the-art SRC baseline, achieving 0.93% and 1.32%253absolute accuracy improvements on hand-craftedand automatic parsing data.2 Prediction of Thematic Rank2.1 Ranking Arguments in PropBankThere are two main problems in modeling the-matic hierarchy for SRL on PropBank.
On the onehand, there is no consistent meaning of the coreroles (i.e.
Arg0-5/ArgA).
On the other hand, thereis no consensus over hierarchies of the roles in thethematic hierarchy.
For example, the Patient occu-pies the second highest hierarchy in some linguis-tic theories but the lowest in some other theories(Levin and Hovav, 2005).In this paper, the proto-role theory (Dowty,1991) is taken into account to rank PropBank argu-ments, partially resolving the two problems above.There are three key points in our solution.
First,the rank of Arg0 is the highest.
The Agent is al-most without exception the highest role in pro-posed hierarchies.
Though PropBank defines se-mantic roles on a verb by verb basis, for a particu-lar verb, Arg0 is generally the argument exhibit-ing features of a prototypical Agent while Arg1is a prototypical Patient or Theme (Palmer et al,2005).
As being the proto-Agent, the rank of Arg0is higher than other numbered arguments.
Second,the rank of the Arg1 is second highest or lowest.Both hierarchy of Arg1 are tested and discussed insection 4.
Third, we do not rank other arguments.Two sets of roles closely correspond to num-bered arguments: 1) referenced arguments and 2)continuation arguments.
To adapt the relation tohelp these two kinds of arguments, the equivalencerelation is divided into several sub-categories.
Insummary, relations of two arguments aiand ajinthis paper include: 1) aiaj: aiis higher thanaj, 2) ai?
aj: aiis lower than aj, 3) aiARaj: ajis the referenced argument of ai, 4) aiRAaj: aiisthe referenced argument of aj, 5) aiACaj: ajisthe continuation argument of ai, 6) aiCAaj: aiisthe continuation argument of aj, 7) ai= aj: aiand ajare labeled as the same role label, and 8)ai?
aj: aiand ajare labeled as the Arg2-5, butnot in the same type.2.2 Prediction MethodAssigning different labels to possible rank be-tween two arguments aiand aj, such as labelingaiajas ?
?, identification of thematic rankcan be formulated as a classification problem.
De-lemma, POS Tag, voice, and SCF of predicatecategories, position of two arguments; rewriterules expanding subroots of two argumentscontent and POS tags of the boundary wordsand head wordscategory path from the predicate to candidateargumentssingle character category path from thepredicate to candidate argumentsconjunction of categories, position, headwords, POS of head wordscategory and single character category pathfrom the first argument to the second argumentTable 1: Features for thematic rank identification.note the set of relationsR.
Formally, given a scorefunction STH: A?A?R 7?
R, the relation r isrecognized in argmax flavor:r?
= r?
(ai, aj) = argmaxr?RSTH(ai, aj, r)A probability function is chosen as the score func-tion and the log-linear model is used to estimatethe probability:STH(ai, aj, r) =exp{?
(ai, aj, r) ?w}?r?Rexp{?
(ai, aj, r) ?w}where ?
is the feature map and w is the param-eter vector to learn.
Note that the model pre-dicts the rank of aiand ajthrough calculatingSTH(ai, aj, r) rather than STH(aj, ai, r), whereaiprecedes aj.
In other words, the position infor-mation is implicitly encoded in the model ratherthan explicitly as a feature.The system extracts a number of features to rep-resent various aspects of the syntactic structure ofa pair of arguments.
All features are listed in Table1.
The Path features are designed as a sequentialcollection of phrase tags by (Gildea and Jurafsky,2002).
We also use Single Character CategoryPath, in which each phrase tag is clustered to a cat-egory defined by its first character (Pradhan et al,2005).
To characterize the relation between twoconstituents, we combine features of the two indi-vidual arguments as new features (i.e.
conjunctionfeatures).
For example, if the category of the firstargument is NP and the category of the second is S,then the conjunction of category feature is NP-S.3 Re-ranking Models for SRCToutanova et al (2008) empirically showed thatglobal information is important for SRL and that254structured solutions outperform local semanticrole classifiers.
Punyakanok et al (2008) raised aninference procedure with integer linear program-ming model, which also showed promising results.Identifying relations among arguments can pro-vide structural information for SRL.
Take the sen-tence ?
[Arg0She] [Vaddressed] [Arg1her hus-band] [ArgM?MNRwith her favorite nickname].
?for example, if the thematic rank of she and herhusband is predicted as that she is higher than herhusband, then her husband should not be assignedthe highest role.To incorporate the relation information to lo-cal classification results, we employ re-ranking ap-proach.
Assuming that the local semantic classi-fier can produce a list of labeling results, our sys-tem then attempts to pick one from this list accord-ing to the predicted ranks.
Two different policesare implemented: 1) hard constraint re-ranking,and 2) soft constraint re-ranking.Hard Constraint Re-ranking The one pickedup must be strictly in accordance with the ranks.If the rank prediction result shows the rank of ar-gument aiis higher than aj, then role assignmentssuch as [ai=Patient and aj=Agent] will be elim-inated.
Formally, the score function of a globalsemantic role assignment is:S(a, s) =?iSl(ai, si)?i,j,i<jI(r?
(ai, aj), r(si, sj))where the function Sllocally scores an argument;r?
: A ?
A 7?
R is to predict hierarchy of twoarguments; r : S ?
S 7?
R is to point out the the-matic hierarchy of two semantic roles.
For exam-ple, r(Agent, Patient) = ?
?.
I : R ?R 7?
{0, 1} is identity function.In some cases, there is no role assignment sat-isfies all predicted relations because of predictionmistakes.
For example, if the hierarchy detec-tion result of a = (a1, a2, a3) is (r?
(a1, a2) =, r?
(a2, a3) =, r?
(a1, a3) =?
), there will be nolegal role assignment.
In these cases, our systemreturns local SRL results.Soft Constraint Re-ranking In this approach,the predicted confidence score of relations isadded as factor items to the score function of thesemantic role assignment.
Formally, the scorefunction in soft constraint re-ranking is:S(a, s) =?iSl(ai, si)?i,j,i<jSTH(ai, aj, r(si, sj))4 Experiments4.1 Experimental SettingsWe evaluated our system using the CoNLL-2005shared task data.
Hierarchy labels for experimen-tal corpora are automatically set according to thedefinition of relation labels described in section2.1.
Charniak parser (Charniak, 2000) is used forPOS tagging and full parsing.
UIUC SemanticRole Labeler1is a state-of-the-art SRL system.
Itsargument classification module is used as a stronglocal semantic role classifier.
This module is re-trained in our SRC experiments, using parametersdescribed in (Koomen et al, 2005).
Experimentsof SRC in this paper are all based on good ar-gument boundaries which can filter out the noiseraised by argument identification stage.4.2 Which Hierarchy Is Better?Detection SRL (S) SRL (G)Baseline ?
94.77% ?A 94.65% 95.44% 96.89%A & P?
95.62% 95.07% 96.39%A & P?
94.09% 95.13% 97.22%Table 2: Accuracy on different hierarchiesTable 2 summarizes the performance of the-matic rank prediction and SRC on different the-matic hierarchies.
All experiments are tested ondevelopment corpus.
The first row shows the per-formance of the local sematic role classifier.
Thesecond to the forth rows show the performancebased on three ranking approach.
A means thatthe rank of Agent is the highest; P?
means that therank of Patient is the second highest; P?
meansthat the rank of the Patient is the lowest.
Col-umn SRL(S) shows SRC performance based onsoft constraint re-ranking approach, and columnSRL(G) shows SRC performance based on goldhierarchies.
The data shows that the third the-matic hierarchy fits SRL best, but is harder tolearn.
Compared with P?, P?
is more suitable forSRL.
In the following SRC experiments, we usethe first hierarchy because it is most helpful whenpredicted relations are used.4.3 Results And Improvement AnalysisTable 3 summarizes the precision, recall, and F-measure of this task.
The second column is fre-quency of relations in the test data, which can be1http://l2r.cs.uiuc.edu/?cogcomp/srl-demo.php255seen as a simple baseline.
Moreover, another natu-ral baseline system can predict hierarchies accord-ing to the roles classified by local classifier.
Forexample, if the aiis labeled as Arg0 and ajis la-beled as Arg2, then the relation is predicted as .The third column BL shows the F-measure of thisbaseline.
It is clear that our approach significantlyoutperforms the two baselines.Rel Freq.
BL P(%) R(%) F57.40 94.79 97.13 98.33 97.73?
9.70 51.23 98.52 97.24 97.88?
23.05 13.41 94.49 93.59 94.04= 0.33 19.57 93.75 71.43 81.08AR 5.55 95.43 99.15 99.72 99.44AC 3.85 78.40 87.77 82.04 84.81CA 0.16 30.77 83.33 50.00 62.50All ?
75.75 96.42Table 3: Thematic rank prediction performanceTable 4 summarizes overall accuracy of SRC.Baseline performance is the overall accuracy ofthe local classifier.
We can see that our re-rankingmethods can yield significant improvemnts overthe baseline.Gold CharniakBaseline 95.14% 94.12%Hard 95.71% 94.74%Soft 96.07% 95.44%Table 4: Overall SRC accuracy.Hierarchy prediction and re-ranking can beviewed as modification for local classification re-sults with structural information.
Take the sen-tence ?
[Some ?circuit breakers?
installed after theOctober 1987] crash failed [their first test].?
forexample, where phrases ?Some ... 1987?
and?their ... test?
are two arguments.
The table be-low shows the local classification result (columnScore(L)) and the rank prediction result (columnScore(H)).
The baseline system falsely assignsroles as Arg0+Arg1, the rank relation of which is.
Taking into account rank prediction result thatrelation ?
gets a extremely high probability, oursystem returns Arg1+Arg2 as SRL result.Assignment Score(L) Score(H)Arg0+Arg1 78.97%?
82.30% :0.02%Arg1+Arg2 14.25%?
11.93% ?
:99.98%5 Conclusion and Future WorkInspired by thematic hierarchy theory, this paperconcentrates on thematic hierarchy relation whichcharacterize the structural information for SRL.The prediction of thematic rank is formulated asa classification problem and a log-linear modelis proposed to solve this problem.
To improveSRC, we employ re-ranking technique to incorpo-rate thematic rank information into the local se-mantic role classifier.
Experimental results showthat our methods can construct high-performancethematic rank detector and that identification of ar-guments?
relations can significantly improve SRC.AcknowledgmentsThis work is supported by NSFC Project60873156, 863 High Technology Project ofChina 2006AA01Z144 and the project of Toshiba(China) Co., Ltd. R&D Center.ReferencesEugene Charniak.
2000.
A Maximum-Entropy-Inspired Parser.
In Proceedings of NAACL-00.David R. Dowty.
1991.
Thematic proto-roles and ar-gument selection.
Language, 67:547?619.Charles Fillmore.
1968.
The case for case.
In Em-mon Bach and Richard Harms, editors, Universalsin Linguistic Theory, pages 1?90.
Holt, Rinehart andWinston, New York, New York.Daniel Gildea and Daniel Jurafsky.
2002.
Automaticlabeling of semantic roles.
Computational Linguis-tics, 28:245?288.Peter Koomen, Vasin Punyakanok, Dan Roth, andWen-tau Yih.
2005.
Generalized inference withmultiple semantic role labeling systems.
In Pro-ceedings of the CoNLL-2005, pages 181?184, June.Beth Levin and Malka Rappaport Hovav.
2005.
Argu-ment Realization.
Research Surveys in Linguistics.Cambridge University Press, New York.Martha Palmer, Daniel Gildea, and Paul Kingsbury.2005.
The proposition bank: An annotated corpusof semantic roles.
Computational Linguistics, 31.Sameer Pradhan, Kadri Hacioglu, Valerie Krugler,Wayne Ward, James H. Martin, and Daniel Jurafsky.2005.
Support vector learning for semantic argu-ment classification.
In Machine Learning.Vasin Punyakanok, Dan Roth, and Wen-tau Yih.
2008.The importance of syntactic parsing and inference insemantic role labeling.
Comput.
Linguist.Kristina Toutanova, Aria Haghighi, and Christopher D.Manning.
2008.
A global joint model for semanticrole labeling.
Comput.
Linguist.256
