Proceedings of the ACL-IJCNLP 2009 Software Demonstrations, pages 21?24,Suntec, Singapore, 3 August 2009. c?2009 ACL and AFNLPMARS: Multilingual Access and Retrieval System with EnhancedQuery Translation and Document RetrievalLianhau Lee, Aiti Aw, Thuy Vu, Sharifah Aljunied Mahani, Min Zhang, Haizhou LiInstitute for Infocomm Research1 Fusionopolis Way, #21-01 Connexis, Singapore 138632{lhlee, aaiti, tvu, smaljunied, mzhang, hli}@i2r.a-star.edu.sgAbstractIn this paper, we introduce a multilingual ac-cess and retrieval system with enhanced querytranslation and multilingual document retrieval,by mining bilingual terminologies and aligneddocument directly from the set of comparablecorpora which are to be searched upon by us-ers.
By extracting bilingual terminologies andaligning bilingual documents with similar con-tent prior to the search process provide moreaccurate translated terms for the in-domaindata and support multilingual retrieval evenwithout the use of translation tool during re-trieval time.
This system includes a user-friendly graphical user interface designed toprovide navigation and retrieval of informationin browse mode and search mode respectively.1 IntroductionQuery translation is an important step in thecross-language information retrieval (CLIR).Currently, most of the CLIR system relies onvarious kinds of dictionaries, for example Word-Nets (Luca and Nurnberger, 2006; Ranieri et al,2004), in query translation.
Although dictionariescan provide effective translation on commonwords or even phrases, they are always limited inthe coverage.
Hence, there is a need to expandthe existing collections of bilingual terminologiesthrough various means.Recently, there has been more and more re-search work focus on bilingual terminology ex-traction from comparable corpora.
Some promis-ing results have been reported making use of sta-tistics, linguistics (Sadat et al, 2003), translitera-tion (Udupa et al, 2008), date information (Taoand Zhai, 2005) and document alignment ap-proach (Talvensaari et al, 2007).In this paper, we introduce our MultilingualAccess and Retrieval System ?
MARS whichaddresses the query translation issue by using in-domain bilingual terminologies extracted directlyfrom the comparable corpora which are to beaccessed by users.
And at the same time, bilin-gual documents are paired up prior to the searchprocess based on their content similarities toovercome the limitation of traditional keywordmatching based on the translated terms.
Thesewould provide better retrieval experiences as notonly more accurate in-domain translated termwill be used to retrieve the documents but alsoprovide a new perspective of multilingual infor-mation retrieval to process the time-consumingmultilingual document matching at the backend.The following sections of this paper will de-scribe the system architecture and the proposedfunctionalities of the MARS system.2 MARS SystemThe MARS system is designed to enhance querytranslation and document retrieval through min-ing the underlying multilingual structures ofcomparable corpora via a pivot language.
Thereare three reasons for using a pivot language.Firstly, it is appropriate to use a universal lan-guage among potential users of different nativelanguages.
Secondly, it reduces the backend dataprocessing cost by just considering the pair-wiserelationship between the pivot language and anyother languages.
Lastly, the dictionary resourcesbetween the pivot language and all the other lan-guages are more likely to be available than oth-erwise.There are two main parts in this system,namely data processing and user interface.
Thedata processing is an offline process to mine theunderlying multilingual structure of the compa-21rable corpora to support retrieval.
The structureof the comparable corpora is presented visuallyin the user interface under browse mode andsearch mode to facilitate navigation and retrievalof information respectively.3 Data ProcessingFor demo purpose, three different languagenewspapers from the year 1995 to 2006 pub-lished by Singapore Press Holding (SPH),namely Strait Times1 (English), ZaoBao2 (Chi-nese) and Berita Harian3  (Malay), are used ascomparable corpora.
In these particular corpora,English is chosen as the pivot language and nounterms are chosen as the basic semantic unit asthey represent a huge amount of significant in-formation.
Our strategy is to organize and ma-nipulate the corpora in three levels of abstraction?
clusters, documents and terms.
And our keytask over here is to find the underlying associa-tions of documents or terminologies in each levelacross different languages.First, monolingual documents are grouped intoclusters by k-means algorithm using simple wordvectors.
Then, monolingual noun terms are ex-tracted from each cluster using linguistic patternsand filtered by occurrence statistics globally(within cluster) and locally (within document), sothat they are good representatives for cluster as awhole as well as individual documents (Vu et al,2008).
The extracted terms are then used indocument clustering in a new cycle and thewhole process is repeated until the result con-verges.Next, cluster alignment is carried out betweenthe pivot language (English) and the other lan-guages (Chinese, Malay).
Clusters can be con-ceptualized as the collection of documents withthe same themes (e.g.
finance, politics or sports)and their alignments as the correspondents in theother languages.
Since there may be overlapsamong themes, e.g.
finance and economy, eachcluster is allowed to align to more than one clus-ter with varying degree of alignment score.After that, document alignment is carried outbetween aligned cluster pairs (Vu et al, 2009).Note that the corpora are comparable, thus thealigned document pairs are inherently compara-1 http://www.straitstimes.com/ an English news agency inSingapore.
Source ?
Singapore Press Holdings Ltd.2 http://www.zaobao.com/ a Chinese news agency inSingapore.
Source ?
Singapore Press Holdings Ltd.3 http://cyberita.asia1.com.sg/ a Malay news agency inSingapore.
Source ?
Singapore Press Holdings Ltd.ble, i.e.
they are similar in contents but not iden-tical as translation pairs.
Also as important tonote that, document alignment harvested overhere is independent of user query.
In otherwords, document alignment is not simply deter-mined by mere occurrence of certain keywordand its absence does not hinder documents to bealigned.
Hence mining of document alignmentbeforehand improves document retrieval after-ward.Finally, term alignment is likewise generatedbetween aligned document pairs.
The alignedterms are expected to be in-domain translationpairs since they are both derived from documentsof similar contents, and thus they have similarcontexts.
By making use of the results providedby each other, document alignment and termalignment can be improved over iterations.All the mentioned processes are done offlineand the results are stored in a relational databasewhich will handle online queries generated in theuser interface later on.4 User InterfaceAs mentioned, there are two modes provided inthe user interface to facilitate navigation and re-trieval of information, namely browse mode andsearch mode.
Both modes can be switched sim-ply by clicking on the respective tabs in the userinterface.
In the following, the functionalities ofthe browse mode and the search mode will beexplained in details.4.1 Browse ModeBrowse mode provides a means to navigatethrough the complex structures underneath anoverwhelming data with an easily-understood,user-friendly graphical interface.
In the figure 1,the graph in the browse mode gives an overallpicture of the distribution of documents in vari-ous clusters and among the different languagecollections.
The outer circles represent the lan-guage repositories and the inner circles representthe clusters.
The sizes of the clusters are depend-ing on the number of contained documents andthe color represents the dominant theme.
Thelabels of the highlighted clusters, characterizedby a set of five distinguished words, are shown inthe tooltips next to them.
By clicking on a clus-ter, the links depicting the cluster alignments willshow up.
The links to the clusters in the otherlanguages are all propagated through the pivotlanguage.22Fig.
1 Browse mode in the MARS SystemFig.
2 Search mode in the MARS System23The right hand side of the browse panel pro-vides the detail information about the selectedcluster using three sub-panels, i.e.
top, middleand bottom.
The top panel displays a list of ex-tracted terms from the selected cluster.
User maynarrow down the list of interested terms by usingthe search-text column on top.
By clicking on aterm in the list, its translations in other lan-guages, if any, will be displayed in the middlesub-panel and the document containing the termwill be listed in the bottom sub-panel.
The?Search?
buttons next to the term translationsprovide a short-cut to jump to the search modewith the corresponding term translation being cutand pasted over.
Last but not least, user maysimply click on any document listed in the bot-tom sub-panel to read the content of the docu-ment and its aligned documents in a pop-up win-dow.4.2 Search ModeSearch mode provides a means for comprehen-sive information retrieval.
Refer to the figure 2,user may enter query in any of the selected lan-guages to search for documents in all languages.The main difference is that query translation isdone via bilingual terms extracted via the termalignment technology discussed earlier.
For eachretrieved document, documents with similar con-tent in the other languages are also provided tosupplement the searched results.
This enablesdocuments which are potentially relevant to theusers be retrieved as some of these retrieveddocuments may not contain the translated termsat all.On top of the query translation, other informa-tion such as related terms and similar terms tothe query are shown at the tab panel on the right.Related terms are terms that correlate statisticallywith the query term and they are arranged bycluster, separated by dotted line in the list.
Simi-lar terms are longer terms that contains the queryterm in itself.
Both the related terms and thesimilar terms provide user additional hints andguides to improve further queries.5 ConclusionThe MARS system is developed to enable user tobetter navigate and search information from mul-tilingual comparable corpora in a user-friendlygraphical user interface.
Query translation anddocument retrieval is enhanced by utilizing thein-domain bilingual terminologies and documentalignment acquired from the comparable corporaitself, without limited by dictionaries and key-word matching.Currently, the system only support simplequery.
Future work will improve on this to allowmore general query.ReferencesErnesto William De Luca, and Andreas Nurnberger.2006.
A Word Sense-Oriented User Interfacefor Interactive Multilingual Text Retrieval, InProceedings of the Workshop Information Re-trieval, Hildesheim.M.
Ranieri, E. Pianta, and L. Bentivogli.
2004.Browsing Multilingual Information with theMultiSemCor Web Interface, In Proceedings ofthe LREC-2004 Workshop ?The amazing utility ofparallel and comparable corpora?, Lisban, Portu-gal.Fatiha Sadat, Masatoshi Yoshikawa, Shunsuke Ue-mura.
2003.
Learning bilingual translationsfrom comparable corpora to cross-languageinformation retrieval: hybrid statistics-basedand linguistics-based approach, In Proceedingsof the 6th international workshop on InformationRetrieval with Asian Languages, vol.
1: pp.
57-64.Raghavendra Udupa, K. Saravanan, A. Kumaran,Jagadeesh Jagarlamudi.
2008.
Mining named en-tity transliteration equivalents from compara-ble corpora.
In Proceedings of the 17th ACM con-ference on Information and knowledge manage-ment.Tao Tao, and ChengXiang Zhai.
2005.
Mining com-parable bilingual text corpora for cross-language information integration.
In Proceed-ings of the 11th ACM SIGKDD international con-ference on Knowledge discovery in data mining.Tuomas Talvensaari, Jorma Laurikkala, Kalervo Jar-velin, Martti Juhola, Heikki Keskustalo.
2007.Creating and exploiting a comparable corpusin cross-language information retrieval.
ACMTransactions on Information System (TOIS), vol.25(1):  Article No 4.Thuy Vu, Aiti Aw, Min Zhang.
2008.
Term extrac-tion through unithood and termhood unifica-tion.
In Proceedings of the 3rd International JointConference on Natural Language Processing(IJCNLP-08), Hyderabad, India.Thuy Vu, Aiti Aw, Min Zhang.
2009.
Feature-basedMethod for Document Alignment in Compara-ble News Corpora.
In Proceedings of the 12thConference of the European Chapter of the Asso-ciation for Computational Linguistics (EACL-09),Athens, Greece.24
