Proceedings of the 47th Annual Meeting of the ACL and the 4th IJCNLP of the AFNLP, pages 244?252,Suntec, Singapore, 2-7 August 2009. c?2009 ACL and AFNLPA Non-negative Matrix Tri-factorization Approach toSentiment Classification with Lexical Prior KnowledgeTao Li Yi ZhangSchool of Computer ScienceFlorida International University{taoli,yzhan004}@cs.fiu.eduVikas SindhwaniMathematical SciencesIBM T.J. Watson Research Centervsindhw@us.ibm.comAbstractSentiment classification refers to the taskof automatically identifying whether agiven piece of text expresses positive ornegative opinion towards a subject at hand.The proliferation of user-generated webcontent such as blogs, discussion forumsand online review sites has made it possi-ble to perform large-scale mining of pub-lic opinion.
Sentiment modeling is thusbecoming a critical component of marketintelligence and social media technologiesthat aim to tap into the collective wis-dom of crowds.
In this paper, we considerthe problem of learning high-quality senti-ment models with minimal manual super-vision.
We propose a novel approach tolearn from lexical prior knowledge in theform of domain-independent sentiment-laden terms, in conjunction with domain-dependent unlabeled data and a few la-beled documents.
Our model is based on aconstrained non-negative tri-factorizationof the term-document matrix which canbe implemented using simple update rules.Extensive experimental studies demon-strate the effectiveness of our approach ona variety of real-world sentiment predic-tion tasks.1 IntroductionWeb 2.0 platforms such as blogs, discussion fo-rums and other such social media have now givena public voice to every consumer.
Recent sur-veys have estimated that a massive number of in-ternet users turn to such forums to collect rec-ommendations for products and services, guid-ing their own choices and decisions by the opin-ions that other consumers have publically ex-pressed.
Gleaning insights by monitoring and an-alyzing large amounts of such user-generated datais thus becoming a key competitive differentia-tor for many companies.
While tracking brandperceptions in traditional media is hardly a newchallenge, handling the unprecedented scale ofunstructured user-generated web content requiresnew methodologies.
These methodologies arelikely to be rooted in natural language processingand machine learning techniques.Automatically classifying the sentiment ex-pressed in a blog around selected topics of interestis a canonical machine learning task in this dis-cussion.
A standard approach would be to manu-ally label documents with their sentiment orienta-tion and then apply off-the-shelf text classificationtechniques.
However, sentiment is often conveyedwith subtle linguistic mechanisms such as the useof sarcasm and highly domain-specific contextualcues.
This makes manual annotation of sentimenttime consuming and error-prone, presenting a bot-tleneck in learning high quality models.
Moreover,products and services of current focus, and asso-ciated community of bloggers with their idiosyn-cratic expressions, may rapidly evolve over timecausing models to potentially lose performanceand become stale.
This motivates the problem oflearning robust sentiment models from minimalsupervision.In their seminal work, (Pang et al, 2002)demonstrated that supervised learning signifi-cantly outperformed a competing body of workwhere hand-crafted dictionaries are used to assignsentiment labels based on relative frequencies ofpositive and negative terms.
As observed by (Ng etal., 2006), most semi-automated dictionary-basedapproaches yield unsatisfactory lexicons, with ei-ther high coverage and low precision or vice versa.However, the treatment of such dictionaries asforms of prior knowledge that can be incorporatedin machine learning models is a relatively less ex-plored topic; even lesser so in conjunction withsemi-supervised models that attempt to utilize un-244labeled data.
This is the focus of the current paper.Our models are based on a constrained non-negative tri-factorization of the term-documentmatrix, which can be implemented using simpleupdate rules.
Treated as a set of labeled features,the sentiment lexicon is incorporated as one set ofconstraints that enforce domain-independent priorknowledge.
A second set of constraints introducedomain-specific supervision via a few documentlabels.
Together these constraints enable learningfrom partial supervision along both dimensions ofthe term-document matrix, in what may be viewedmore broadly as a framework for incorporatingdual-supervision in matrix factorization models.We provide empirical comparisons with severalcompeting methodologies on four, very differentdomains ?
blogs discussing enterprise softwareproducts, political blogs discussing US presiden-tial candidates, amazon.com product reviews andIMDB movie reviews.
Results demonstrate the ef-fectiveness and generality of our approach.The rest of the paper is organized as follows.We begin by discussing related work in Section 2.Section 3 gives a quick background on Non-negative Matrix Tri-factorization models.
In Sec-tion 4, we present a constrained model and compu-tational algorithm for incorporating lexical knowl-edge in sentiment analysis.
In Section 5, we en-hance this model by introducing document labelsas additional constraints.
Section 6 presents anempirical study on four datasets.
Finally, Section 7concludes this paper.2 Related WorkWe point the reader to a recent book (Pang andLee, 2008) for an in-depth survey of literature onsentiment analysis.
In this section, we brisklycover related work to position our contributionsappropriately in the sentiment analysis and ma-chine learning literature.Methods focussing on the use and generation ofdictionaries capturing the sentiment of words haveranged from manual approaches of developingdomain-dependent lexicons (Das and Chen, 2001)to semi-automated approaches (Hu and Liu, 2004;Zhuang et al, 2006; Kim and Hovy, 2004), andeven an almost fully automated approach (Turney,2002).
Most semi-automated approaches have metwith limited success (Ng et al, 2006) and super-vised learning models have tended to outperformdictionary-based classification schemes (Pang etal., 2002).
A two-tier scheme (Pang and Lee,2004) where sentences are first classified as sub-jective versus objective, and then applying the sen-timent classifier on only the subjective sentencesfurther improves performance.
Results in thesepapers also suggest that using more sophisticatedlinguistic models, incorporating parts-of-speechand n-gram language models, do not improve overthe simple unigram bag-of-words representation.In keeping with these findings, we also adopt aunigram text model.
A subjectivity classificationphase before our models are applied may furtherimprove the results reported in this paper, but ourfocus is on driving the polarity prediction stagewith minimal manual effort.In this regard, our model brings two inter-related but distinct themes from machine learningto bear on this problem: semi-supervised learn-ing and learning from labeled features.
The goalof the former theme is to learn from few labeledexamples by making use of unlabeled data, whilethe goal of the latter theme is to utilize weakprior knowledge about term-class affinities (e.g.,the term ?awful?
indicates negative sentiment andtherefore may be considered as a negatively la-beled feature).
Empirical results in this paperdemonstrate that simultaneously attempting boththese goals in a single model leads to improve-ments over models that focus on a single goal.
(Goldberg and Zhu, 2006) adapt semi-supervisedgraph-based methods for sentiment analysis butdo not incorporate lexical prior knowledge in theform of labeled features.
Most work in machinelearning literature on utilizing labeled features hasfocused on using them to generate weakly labeledexamples that are then used for standard super-vised learning: (Schapire et al, 2002) propose onesuch framework for boosting logistic regression;(Wu and Srihari, 2004) build a modified SVMand (Liu et al, 2004) use a combination of clus-tering and EM based methods to instantiate simi-lar frameworks.
By contrast, we incorporate lex-ical knowledge directly as constraints on our ma-trix factorization model.
In recent work, Druck etal.
(Druck et al, 2008) constrain the predictions ofa multinomial logistic regression model on unla-beled instances in a Generalized Expectation for-mulation for learning from labeled features.
Un-like their approach which uses only unlabeled in-stances, our method uses both labeled and unla-beled documents in conjunction with labeled and245unlabeled words.The matrix tri-factorization models explored inthis paper are closely related to the models pro-posed recently in (Li et al, 2008; Sindhwani et al,2008).
Though, their techniques for proving algo-rithm convergence and correctness can be readilyadapted for our models, (Li et al, 2008) do notincorporate dual supervision as we do.
On theother hand, while (Sindhwani et al, 2008) do in-corporate dual supervision in a non-linear kernel-based setting, they do not enforce non-negativityor orthogonality ?
aspects of matrix factorizationmodels that have shown benefits in prior empiricalstudies, see e.g., (Ding et al, 2006).We also note the very recent work of (Sind-hwani and Melville, 2008) which proposes a dual-supervision model for semi-supervised sentimentanalysis.
In this model, bipartite graph regulariza-tion is used to diffuse label information along bothsides of the term-document matrix.
Conceptually,their model implements a co-clustering assump-tion closely related to Singular Value Decomposi-tion (see also (Dhillon, 2001; Zha et al, 2001) formore on this perspective) while our model is basedon Non-negative Matrix Factorization.
In anotherrecent paper (Sandler et al, 2008), standard regu-larization models are constrained using graphs ofword co-occurences.
These are very recently pro-posed competing methodologies, and we have notbeen able to address empirical comparisons withthem in this paper.Finally, recent efforts have also looked at trans-fer learning mechanisms for sentiment analysis,e.g., see (Blitzer et al, 2007).
While our focusis on single-domain learning in this paper, we notethat cross-domain variants of our model can alsobe orthogonally developed.3 Background3.1 Basic Matrix Factorization ModelOur proposed models are based on non-negativematrix Tri-factorization (Ding et al, 2006).
Inthese models, an m?
n term-document matrix Xis approximated by three factors that specify softmembership of terms and documents in one of k-classes:X ?
FSGT .
(1)where F is an m?
k non-negative matrix repre-senting knowledge in the word space, i.e., i-th rowof F represents the posterior probability of wordi belonging to the k classes, G is an n?
k non-negative matrix representing knowledge in docu-ment space, i.e., the i-th row of G represents theposterior probability of document i belonging tothe k classes, and S is an k?
k nonnegative matrixproviding a condensed view of X .The matrix factorization model is similar tothe probabilistic latent semantic indexing (PLSI)model (Hofmann, 1999).
In PLSI, X is treatedas the joint distribution between words and doc-uments by the scaling X ?
X?
= X/?i j Xi j thus?i j X?i j = 1).
X?
is factorized asX?
?WSDT ,?kWik = 1,?kD jk = 1,?kSkk = 1.
(2)where X is the m ?
n word-document seman-tic matrix, X = WSD, W is the word class-conditional probability, and D is the documentclass-conditional probability and S is the classprobability distribution.PLSI provides a simultaneous solution for theword and document class conditional distribu-tion.
Our model provides simultaneous solutionfor clustering the rows and the columns of X .
Toavoid ambiguity, the orthogonality conditionsFT F = I, GT G = I.
(3)can be imposed to enforce each row of F and Gto possess only one nonzero entry.
Approximatingthe term-document matrix with a tri-factorizationwhile imposing non-negativity and orthogonal-ity constraints gives a principled framework forsimultaneously clustering the rows (words) andcolumns (documents) of X .
In the context of co-clustering, these models return excellent empiri-cal performance, see e.g., (Ding et al, 2006).
Ourgoal now is to bias these models with constraintsincorporating (a) labels of features (coming froma domain-independent sentiment lexicon), and (b)labels of documents for the purposes of domain-specific adaptation.
These enhancements are ad-dressed in Sections 4 and 5 respectively.4 Incorporating Lexical KnowledgeWe used a sentiment lexicon generated by theIBM India Research Labs that was developed forother text mining applications (Ramakrishnan etal., 2003).
It contains 2,968 words that have beenhuman-labeled as expressing positive or negativesentiment.
In total, there are 1,267 positive (e.g.?great?)
and 1,701 negative (e.g., ?bad?)
unique246terms after stemming.
We eliminated terms thatwere ambiguous and dependent on context, suchas ?dear?
and ?fine?.
It should be noted, that thislist was constructed without a specific domain inmind; which is further motivation for using train-ing examples and unlabeled data to learn domainspecific connotations.Lexical knowledge in the form of the polarityof terms in this lexicon can be introduced in thematrix factorization model.
By partially specify-ing term polarities via F , the lexicon influencesthe sentiment predictions G over documents.4.1 Representing Knowledge in Word SpaceLet F0 represent prior knowledge about sentiment-laden words in the lexicon, i.e., if word i is apositive word (F0)i1 = 1 while if it is negative(F0)i2 = 1.
Note that one may also use soft sen-timent polarities though our experiments are con-ducted with hard assignments.
This informationis incorporated in the tri-factorization model via asquared loss term,minF,G,S?X ?FSGT?2 +?Tr[(F?F0)TC1(F?F0)](4)where the notation Tr(A) means trace of the matrixA.
Here, ?
> 0 is a parameter which determinesthe extent to which we enforce F ?
F0, C1 is a m?m diagonal matrix whose entry (C1)ii = 1 if thecategory of the i-th word is known (i.e., specifiedby the i-th row of F0) and (C1)ii = 0 otherwise.The squared loss terms ensure that the solution forF in the otherwise unsupervised learning problembe close to the prior knowledge F0.
Note that ifC1 = I, then we know the class orientation of allthe words and thus have a full specification of F0,Eq.
(4) is then reduced tominF,G,S?X?FSGT?2 +?
?F?F0?2 (5)The above model is generic and it allows certainflexibility.
For example, in some cases, our priorknowledge on F0 is not very accurate and we usesmaller ?
so that the final results are not depen-dent on F0 very much, i.e., the results are mostlyunsupervised learning results.
In addition, the in-troduction of C1 allows us to incorporate partialknowledge on word polarity information.4.2 Computational AlgorithmThe optimization problem in Eq.
( 4) can be solvedusing the following update rulesG jk?
G jk(XT FS) jk(GGT XT FS) jk, (6)Sik ?
Sik(FT XG)ik(FT FSGT G)ik.
(7)Fik?
Fik(XGST +?C1F0)ik(FFT XGST +?C1F)ik.
(8)The algorithm consists of an iterative procedureusing the above three rules until convergence.
Wecall this approach Matrix Factorization with Lex-ical Knowledge (MFLK) and outline the precisesteps in the table below.Algorithm 1 Matrix Factorization with LexicalKnowledge (MFLK)begin1.
Initialization:Initialize F = F0G to K-means clustering results,S = (FT F)?1FT XG(GT G)?1.2.
Iteration:Update G: fixing F,S, updating GUpdate F: fixing S,G, updating FUpdate S: fixing F,G, updating Send4.3 Algorithm Correctness and ConvergenceUpdating F,G,S using the rules above leads to anasymptotic convergence to a local minima.
Thiscan be proved using arguments similar to (Dinget al, 2006).
We outline the proof of correctnessfor updating F since the squared loss term that in-volves F is a new component in our models.Theorem 1 The above iterative algorithm con-verges.Theorem 2 At convergence, the solution satisfiesthe Karuch, Kuhn, Tucker optimality condition,i.e., the algorithm converges correctly to a localoptima.Theorem 1 can be proved using the standardauxiliary function approach used in (Lee and Se-ung, 2001).Proof of Theorem 2.
Following the theory of con-strained optimization (Nocedal and Wright, 1999),247we minimize the following functionL(F)= ||X?FSGT ||2 +?Tr[(F?F0)TC1(F?F0)]Note that the gradient of L is,?L?F =?2XGST +2FSGT GST +2?C1(F?F0).
(9)The KKT complementarity condition for the non-negativity of Fik gives[?2XGST +FSGT GST +2?C1(F?F0)]ikFik = 0.
(10)This is the fixed point relation that local minimafor F must satisfy.
Given an initial guess of F , thesuccessive update of F using Eq.
(8) will convergeto a local minima.
At convergence, we haveFik = Fik(XGST +?C1F0)ik(FFT XGST +?C1F)ik.which is equivalent to the KKT condition ofEq.(10).
The correctness of updating rules for G inEq.
(6) and S in Eq.
(7) have been proved in (Dinget al, 2006).
u?Note that we do not enforce exact orthogonalityin our updating rules since this often implies softerclass assignments.5 Semi-Supervised Learning WithLexical KnowledgeSo far our models have made no demands on hu-man effort, other than unsupervised collection ofthe term-document matrix and a one-time effort incompiling a domain-independent sentiment lexi-con.
We now assume that a few documents aremanually labeled for the purposes of capturingsome domain-specific connotations leading to amore domain-adapted model.
The partial labelson documents can be described using G0 where(G0)i1 = 1 if the document expresses positive sen-timent, and (G0)i2 = 1 for negative sentiment.
Aswith F0, one can also use soft sentiment labelingfor documents, though our experiments are con-ducted with hard assignments.Therefore, the semi-supervised learning withlexical knowledge can be described asminF,G,S?X?FSGT?2 +?Tr[(F?F0)TC1(F?F0)]+?Tr[(G?G0)TC2(G?G0)]Where ?
> 0,?
> 0 are parameters which deter-mine the extent to which we enforce F ?
F0 andG ?
G0 respectively, C1 and C2 are diagonal ma-trices indicating the entries of F0 and G0 that cor-respond to labeled entities.
The squared loss termsensure that the solution for F,G, in the otherwiseunsupervised learning problem, be close to theprior knowledge F0 and G0.5.1 Computational AlgorithmThe optimization problem in Eq.
( 4) can be solvedusing the following update rulesG jk?
G jk(XT FS+?C2G0) jk(GGT XT FS+?GGTC2G0) jk (11)Sik ?
Sik(FT XG)ik(FT FSGT G)ik.
(12)Fik?
Fik(XGST +?C1F0)ik(FFT XGST +?C1F)ik.
(13)Thus the algorithm for semi-supervised learningwith lexical knowledge based on our matrix fac-torization framework, referred as SSMFLK, con-sists of an iterative procedure using the above threerules until convergence.
The correctness and con-vergence of the algorithm can also be proved usingsimilar arguments as what we outlined earlier forMFLK in Section 4.3.A quick word about computational complexity.The term-document matrix is typically very sparsewith z nm non-zero entries while k is typicallyalso much smaller than n,m.
By using sparse ma-trix multiplications and avoiding dense intermedi-ate matrices, the updates can be very efficientlyand easily implemented.
In particular, updatingF,S,G each takes O(k2(m + n) + kz) time per it-eration which scales linearly with the dimensionsand density of the data matrix.
Empirically, thenumber of iterations before practical convergenceis usually very small (less than 100).
Thus, com-putationally our approach scales to large datasetseven though our experiments are run on relativelysmall-sized datasets.6 Experiments6.1 Datasets DescriptionFour different datasets are used in our experi-ments.Movies Reviews: This is a popular dataset insentiment analysis literature (Pang et al, 2002).It consists of 1000 positive and 1000 negativemovie reviews drawn from the IMDB archive ofthe rec.arts.movies.reviews newsgroups.248Lotus blogs: The data set is targeted at detect-ing sentiment around enterprise software, specif-ically pertaining to the IBM Lotus brand (Sind-hwani and Melville, 2008).
An unlabeled setof blog posts was created by randomly sampling2000 posts from a universe of 14,258 blogs thatdiscuss issues relevant to Lotus software.
In ad-dition to this unlabeled set, 145 posts were cho-sen for manual labeling.
These posts came from14 individual blogs, 4 of which are actively post-ing negative content on the brand, with the resttending to write more positive or neutral posts.The data was collected by downloading the lat-est posts from each blogger?s RSS feeds, or ac-cessing the blog?s archives.
Manual labeling re-sulted in 34 positive and 111 negative examples.Political candidate blogs: For our second blogdomain, we used data gathered from 16,742 polit-ical blogs, which contain over 500,000 posts.
Aswith the Lotus dataset, an unlabeled set was cre-ated by randomly sampling 2000 posts.
107 postswere chosen for labeling.
A post was labeled ashaving positive or negative sentiment about a spe-cific candidate (Barack Obama or Hillary Clinton)if it explicitly mentioned the candidate in posi-tive or negative terms.
This resulted in 49 posi-tively and 58 negatively labeled posts.
AmazonReviews: The dataset contains product reviewstaken from Amazon.com from 4 product types:Kitchen, Books, DVDs, and Electronics (Blitzeret al, 2007).
The dataset contains about 4000 pos-itive reviews and 4000 negative reviews and canbe obtained from http://www.cis.upenn.edu/?mdredze/datasets/sentiment/.For all datasets, we picked 5000 words withhighest document-frequency to generate the vo-cabulary.
Stopwords were removed and a nor-malized term-frequency representation was used.Genuinely unlabeled posts for Political and Lo-tus were used for semi-supervised learning experi-ments in section 6.3; they were not used in section6.2 on the effect of lexical prior knowledge.
In theexperiments, we set ?, the parameter determiningthe extent to which to enforce the feature labels,to be 1/2, and ?, the corresponding parameter forenforcing document labels, to be 1.6.2 Sentiment Analysis with LexicalKnowledgeOf course, one can remove all burden on hu-man effort by simply using unsupervised tech-niques.
Our interest in the first set of experi-ments is to explore the benefits of incorporating asentiment lexicon over unsupervised approaches.Does a one-time effort in compiling a domain-independent dictionary and using it for differentsentiment tasks pay off in comparison to simplyusing unsupervised methods?
In our case, matrixtri-factorization and other co-clustering methodsform the obvious unsupervised baseline for com-parison and so we start by comparing our method(MFLK) with the following methods:?
Four document clustering methods: K-means, Tri-Factor Nonnegative Ma-trix Factorization (TNMF) (Ding et al,2006), Information-Theoretic Co-clustering(ITCC) (Dhillon et al, 2003), and EuclideanCo-clustering algorithm (ECC) (Cho et al,2004).
These methods do not make use ofthe sentiment lexicon.?
Feature Centroid (FC): This is a simpledictionary-based baseline method.
Recallthat each word can be expressed as a ?bag-of-documents?
vector.
In this approach, wecompute the centroids of these vectors, onecorresponding to positive words and anothercorresponding to negative words.
This yieldsa two-dimensional representation for docu-ments, on which we then perform K-meansclustering.Performance Comparison Figure 1 shows theexperimental results on four datasets using accu-racy as the performance measure.
The results areobtained by averaging 20 runs.
It can be observedthat our MFLK method can effectively utilize thelexical knowledge to improve the quality of senti-ment prediction.Movies Lotus Political Amazon00.10.20.30.40.50.60.70.80.91AccuracyMFLKFCTNMFECCITCCK?MeansFigure 1: Accuracy results on four datasets249Size of Sentiment Lexicon We also investigatethe effects of the size of the sentiment lexicon onthe performance of our model.
Figure 2 showsresults with random subsets of the lexicon of in-creasing size.
We observe that generally the per-formance increases as more and more lexical su-pervision is provided.0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 0.8 0.9 10.50.550.60.650.70.750.80.85Fraction of sentiment words labeledAccuracyMoviesLotusPoliticalAmazonFigure 2: MFLK accuracy as size of sentimentlexicon (i.e., number of words in the lexicon) in-creases on the four datasetsRobustness to Vocabulary Size High dimen-sionality and noise can have profound impact onthe comparative performance of clustering andsemi-supervised learning algorithms.
We simu-late scenarios with different vocabulary sizes byselecting words based on information gain.
Itshould, however, be kept in mind that in a tru-ely unsupervised setting document labels are un-available and therefore information gain cannotbe practically computed.
Figure 3 and Figure 4show results for Lotus and Amazon datasets re-spectively and are representative of performanceon other datasets.
MLFK tends to retain its po-sition as the best performing method even at dif-ferent vocabulary sizes.
ITCC performance is alsonoteworthy given that it is a completely unsuper-vised method.0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 0.8 0.9 10.50.550.60.650.70.750.80.85Fraction of Original VocabularyAccuracyMFLKFCTNMFK?MeansITCCECCFigure 3: Accuracy results on Lotus dataset withincreasing vocabulary size0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 0.8 0.9 10.50.520.540.560.580.60.620.640.660.68Fraction of Original VocabularyAccuracyMFLKFCTNMFK?MeansITCCECCFigure 4: Accuracy results on Amazon datasetwith increasing vocabulary size6.3 Sentiment Analysis with DualSupervisionWe now assume that together with labeled featuresfrom the sentiment lexicon, we also have access toa few labeled documents.
The natural question iswhether the presence of lexical constraints leadsto better semi-supervised models.
In this section,we compare our method (SSMFLK) with the fol-lowing three semi-supervised approaches: (1) Thealgorithm proposed in (Zhou et al, 2003) whichconducts semi-supervised learning with local andglobal consistency (Consistency Method); (2) Zhuet al?s harmonic Gaussian field method coupledwith the Class Mass Normalization (Harmonic-CMN) (Zhu et al, 2003); and (3) Green?s functionlearning algorithm (Green?s Function) proposedin (Ding et al, 2007).We also compare the results of SSMFLK withthose of two supervised classification methods:Support Vector Machine (SVM) and Naive Bayes.Both of these methods have been widely used insentiment analysis.
In particular, the use of SVMsin (Pang et al, 2002) initially sparked interestin using machine learning methods for sentimentclassification.
Note that none of these competingmethods utilizes lexical knowledge.The results are presented in Figure 5, Figure 6,Figure 7, and Figure 8.
We note that our SSMFLKmethod either outperforms all other methods overthe entire range of number of labeled documents(Movies, Political), or ultimately outpaces othermethods (Lotus, Amazon) as a few document la-bels come in.Learning Domain-Specific Connotations Inour first set of experiments, we incorporated thesentiment lexicon in our models and learnt thesentiment orientation of words and documents viaF,G factors respectively.
In the second set of2500.1 0.15 0.2 0.25 0.3 0.35 0.4 0.45 0.50.40.450.50.550.60.650.70.750.8Number of documents labeled as a fraction of the original set of labeled documentsAccuracySSMFLKConsistency MethodHomonic?CMNGreen FunctionSVMNaive BaysFigure 5: Accuracy results with increasing numberof labeled documents on Movies dataset0.1 0.15 0.2 0.25 0.3 0.35 0.4 0.45 0.50.30.40.50.60.70.80.9Number of documents labeled as a fraction of the original set of labeled documentsAccuracySSMFLKConsistency MethodHomonic?CMNGreen FunctionSVMNaive BayesFigure 6: Accuracy results with increasing numberof labeled documents on Lotus datasetexperiments, we additionally introduced labeleddocuments for domain-specific adjustments.
Be-tween these experiments, we can now look forwords that switch sentiment polarity.
These wordsare interesting because their domain-specific con-notation differs from their lexical orientation.
Foramazon reviews, the following words switchedpolarity from positive to negative: fan, impor-tant, learning, cons, fast, feature, happy, memory,portable, simple, small, work while the followingwords switched polarity from negative to positive:address, finish, lack, mean, budget, rent, throw.Note that words like fan, memory probably referto product or product components (i.e., computerfan and memory) in the amazon review contextbut have a very different connotation say in thecontext of movie reviews where they probably re-fer to movie fanfare and memorable performances.We were surprised to see happy switch polarity!Two examples of its negative-sentiment usage are:I ended up buying a Samsung and I couldn?t bemore happy and BORING, not one single excitingthing about this book.
I was happy when my lunchbreak ended so I could go back to work and stopreading.0.1 0.15 0.2 0.25 0.3 0.35 0.4 0.45 0.50.30.350.40.450.50.550.60.650.70.750.8Number of documents labeled as a fraction of the original set of labeled documentsAccuracySSMFLKConsistency MethodHomonic?CMNGreen FunctionSVMNaive BaysFigure 7: Accuracy results with increasing numberof labeled documents on Political dataset0.1 0.15 0.2 0.25 0.3 0.35 0.4 0.45 0.50.40.450.50.550.60.650.70.750.8Number of documents labeled as a fraction of the original set of labeled documentsAccuracySSMFLKConsistency MethodHomonic?CMNGreen FunctionSVMNaive BaysFigure 8: Accuracy results with increasing numberof labeled documents on Amazon dataset7 ConclusionThe primary contribution of this paper is to pro-pose and benchmark new methodologies for sen-timent analysis.
Non-negative Matrix Factoriza-tions constitute a rich body of algorithms that havefound applicability in a variety of machine learn-ing applications: from recommender systems todocument clustering.
We have shown how to buildeffective sentiment models by appropriately con-straining the factors using lexical prior knowledgeand document annotations.
To more effectivelyutilize unlabeled data and induce domain-specificadaptation of our models, several extensions arepossible: facilitating learning from related do-mains, incorporating hyperlinks between docu-ments, incorporating synonyms or co-occurencesbetween words etc.
As a topic of vigorous currentactivity, there are several very recently proposedcompeting methodologies for sentiment analysisthat we would like to benchmark against.
Theseare topics for future work.Acknowledgement: The work of T. Li is par-tially supported by NSF grants DMS-0844513 andCCF-0830659.
We would also like to thank PremMelville and Richard Lawrence for their support.251ReferencesJ.
Blitzer, M. Dredze, and F. Pereira.
2007.
Biogra-phies, bollywood, boom-boxes and blenders: Do-main adaptation for sentiment classification.
In Pro-ceedings of ACL, pages 440?447.H.
Cho, I. Dhillon, Y. Guan, and S. Sra.
2004.
Mini-mum sum squared residue co-clustering of gene ex-pression data.
In Proceedings of The 4th SIAM DataMining Conference, pages 22?24, April.S.
Das and M. Chen.
2001.
Yahoo!
for amazon:Extracting market sentiment from stock messageboards.
In Proceedings of the 8th Asia Pacific Fi-nance Association (APFA).I.
S. Dhillon, S. Mallela, and D. S. Modha.
2003.Information-theoretical co-clustering.
In Proceed-ings of ACM SIGKDD, pages 89?98.I.
S. Dhillon.
2001.
Co-clustering documents andwords using bipartite spectral graph partitioning.
InProceedings of ACM SIGKDD.C.
Ding, T. Li, W. Peng, and H. Park.
2006.
Orthogo-nal nonnegative matrix tri-factorizations for cluster-ing.
In Proceedings of ACM SIGKDD, pages 126?135.C.
Ding, R. Jin, T. Li, and H.D.
Simon.
2007.
Alearning framework using green?s function and ker-nel regularization with application to recommendersystem.
In Proceedings of ACM SIGKDD, pages260?269.G.
Druck, G. Mann, and A. McCallum.
2008.
Learn-ing from labeled features using generalized expecta-tion criteria.
In SIGIR.A.
Goldberg and X. Zhu.
2006.
Seeing starswhen there aren?t many stars: Graph-based semi-supervised learning for sentiment categorization.
InHLT-NAACL 2006: Workshop on Textgraphs.T.
Hofmann.
1999.
Probabilistic latent semantic in-dexing.
Proceeding of SIGIR, pages 50?57.M.
Hu and B. Liu.
2004.
Mining and summarizingcustomer reviews.
In KDD, pages 168?177.S.-M. Kim and E. Hovy.
2004.
Determining the sen-timent of opinions.
In Proceedings of InternationalConference on Computational Linguistics.D.D.
Lee and H.S.
Seung.
2001.
Algorithms for non-negative matrix factorization.
In Advances in NeuralInformation Processing Systems 13.T.
Li, C. Ding, Y. Zhang, and B. Shao.
2008.
Knowl-edge transformation from word space to documentspace.
In Proceedings of SIGIR, pages 187?194.B.
Liu, X. Li, W.S.
Lee, and P. Yu.
2004.
Text classifi-cation by labeling words.
In AAAI.V.
Ng, S. Dasgupta, and S. M. Niaz Arifin.
2006.
Ex-amining the role of linguistic knowledge sources inthe automatic identification and classification of re-views.
In COLING & ACL.J.
Nocedal and S.J.
Wright.
1999.
Numerical Opti-mization.
Springer-Verlag.B.
Pang and L. Lee.
2004.
A sentimental education:sentiment analysis using subjectivity summarizationbased on minimum cuts.
In ACL.B.
Pang and L. Lee.
2008.
Opinion miningand sentiment analysis.
Foundations and Trendsin Information Retrieval: Vol.
2: No 12, pp1-135 http://www.cs.cornell.edu/home/llee/opinion-mining-sentiment-analysis-survey.html.B.
Pang, L. Lee, and S. Vaithyanathan.
2002.
Thumbsup?
sentiment classification using machine learningtechniques.
In EMNLP.G.
Ramakrishnan, A. Jadhav, A. Joshi, S. Chakrabarti,and P. Bhattacharyya.
2003.
Question answeringvia bayesian inference on lexical relations.
In ACL,pages 1?10.T.
Sandler, J. Blitzer, P. Talukdar, and L. Ungar.
2008.Regularized learning with networks of features.
InNIPS.R.E.
Schapire, M. Rochery, M.G.
Rahim, andN.
Gupta.
2002.
Incorporating prior knowledge intoboosting.
In ICML.V.
Sindhwani and P. Melville.
2008.
Document-word co-regularization for semi-supervised senti-ment analysis.
In Proceedings of IEEE ICDM.V.
Sindhwani, J. Hu, and A. Mojsilovic.
2008.
Regu-larized co-clustering with dual supervision.
In Pro-ceedings of NIPS.P.
Turney.
2002.
Thumbs up or thumbs down?
Se-mantic orientation applied to unsupervised classifi-cation of reviews.
Proceedings of the 40th AnnualMeeting of the Association for Computational Lin-guistics, pages 417?424.X.
Wu and R. Srihari.
2004.
Incorporating priorknowledge with weighted margin support vector ma-chines.
In KDD.H.
Zha, X.
He, C. Ding, M. Gu, and H.D.
Simon.2001.
Bipartite graph partitioning and data cluster-ing.
Proceedings of ACM CIKM.D.
Zhou, O. Bousquet, T.N.
Lal, J. Weston, andB.
Scholkopf.
2003.
Learning with local and globalconsistency.
In Proceedings of NIPS.X.
Zhu, Z. Ghahramani, and J. Lafferty.
2003.
Semi-supervised learning using gaussian fields and har-monic functions.
In Proceedings of ICML.L.
Zhuang, F. Jing, and X. Zhu.
2006.
Movie reviewmining and summarization.
In CIKM, pages 43?50.252
