Proceedings of the ACL 2010 Conference Short Papers, pages 55?59,Uppsala, Sweden, 11-16 July 2010. c?2010 Association for Computational LinguisticsPreferences versus Adaptation during Referring Expression GenerationMartijn GoudbeekUniversity of TilburgTilburg, The Netherlandsm.b.goudbeek@uvt.nlEmiel KrahmerUniversity of TilburgTilburg, The Netherlandse.j.krahmer@uvt.nlAbstractCurrent Referring Expression Generationalgorithms rely on domain dependent pref-erences for both content selection and lin-guistic realization.
We present two exper-iments showing that human speakers mayopt for dispreferred properties and dispre-ferred modifier orderings when these weresalient in a preceding interaction (withoutspeakers being consciously aware of this).We discuss the impact of these findings forcurrent generation algorithms.1 IntroductionThe generation of referring expressions is a coreingredient of most Natural Language Generation(NLG) systems (Reiter and Dale, 2000; Mellish etal., 2006).
These systems usually approach Refer-ring Expression Generation (REG) as a two-stepprocedure, where first it is decided which prop-erties to include (content selection), after whichthe selected properties are turned into a naturallanguage referring expression (linguistic realiza-tion).
The basic problem in both stages is one ofchoice; there are many ways in which one couldrefer to a target object and there are multiple waysin which these could be realized in natural lan-guage.
Typically, these choice problems are tack-led by giving preference to some solutions overothers.
For example, the Incremental Algorithm(Dale and Reiter, 1995), one of the most widelyused REG algorithms, assumes that certain at-tributes are preferred over others, partly based onevidence provided by Pechmann (1989); a chairwould first be described in terms of its color, andonly if this does not result in a unique charac-terization, other, less preferred attributes such asorientation are tried.
The Incremental Algorithmis arguably unique in assuming a complete pref-erence order of attributes, but other REG algo-rithms rely on similar distinctions.
The Graph-based algorithm (Krahmer et al, 2003), for ex-ample, searches for the cheapest description fora target, and distinguishes cheap attributes (suchas color) from more expensive ones (orientation).Realization of referring expressions has receivedless attention, yet recent studies on the ordering ofmodifiers (Shaw and Hatzivassiloglou, 1999; Mal-ouf, 2000; Mitchell, 2009) also work from the as-sumption that some orderings (large red) are pre-ferred over others (red large).We argue that such preferences are less stablewhen referring expressions are generated in inter-active settings, as would be required for applica-tions such as spoken dialogue systems or interac-tive virtual characters.
In these cases, we hypothe-size that, besides domain preferences, also the re-ferring expressions that were produced earlier inthe interaction are important.
It has been shownthat if one dialogue participant refers to a couch asa sofa, the next speaker is more likely to use theword sofa as well (Branigan et al, in press).
Thiskind of micro-planning or ?lexical entrainment?
(Brennan and Clark, 1996) can be seen as a spe-cific form of ?alignment?
(Pickering and Garrod,2004) between speaker and addressee.
Pickeringand Garrod argue that alignment may take placeon all levels of interaction, and indeed it has beenshown that participants also align their intonationpatterns and syntactic structures.
However, as faras we know, experimental evidence for alignmenton the level of content planning has never beengiven, and neither have alignment effects in modi-fier orderings during realization been shown.
Witha few notable exceptions, such as Buschmeier etal.
(2009) who study alignment in micro-planning,and Janarthanam and Lemon (2009) who studyalignment in expertise levels, alignment has re-ceived little attention in NLG so far.This paper is organized as follows.
Experi-ment I studies the trade-off between adaptation55and preferences during content selection while Ex-periment II looks at this trade-off for modifierorderings during realization.
Both studies use anovel interactive reference production paradigm,applied to two domains ?
the Furniture and Peopledomains of the TUNA data-set (Gatt et al, 2007;Koolen et al, 2009) ?
to see whether adaptationmay be domain dependent.
Finally, we contrastour findings with the performance of state-of-the-art REG algorithms, discussing how they could beadapted so as to account for the new data, effec-tively adding plasticity to the generation process.2 Experiment IExperiment I studies what speakers do when re-ferring to a target that can be distinguished in apreferred (the blue fan) or a dispreferred way (theleft-facing fan), when in the prior context eitherthe first or the second variant was made salient.MethodParticipants 26 students (2 male, mean age = 20years, 11 months), all native speakers of Dutchwithout hearing or speech problems, participatedfor course credits.Materials Target pictures were taken from theTUNA corpus (Gatt et al, 2007) that has beenextensively used for REG evaluation.
This cor-pus consists of two domains: one containing pic-tures of people (famous mathematicians), the othercontaining furniture items in different colors de-picted from different orientations.
From previousstudies (Gatt et al, 2007; Koolen et al, 2009) itis known that participants show a preference forcertain attributes: color in the Furniture domainand glasses in the People domain, and dispreferother attributes (orientation of a furniture pieceand wearing a tie, respectively).Procedure Trials consisted of four turns in an in-teractive reference understanding and productionexperiment: a prime, two fillers and the experi-mental description (see Figure 1).
First, partici-pants listened to a pre-recorded female voice re-ferring to one of three objects and had to indi-cate which one was being referenced.
In this sub-task, references either used a preferred or a dis-preferred attribute; both were distinguishing.
Sec-ond, participants themselves described a filler pic-ture, after which, third, they had to indicate whichfiller picture was being described.
The two fillerturns always concerned stimuli from the alterna-Figure 1: The 4 tasks per trial.
A furniture trial isshown; people trials have an identical structure.tive domain and were intended to prevent a toodirect connection between the prime and the tar-get.
Fourth, participants described the target ob-ject, which could always be distinguished from itsdistractors in a preferred (The blue fan) or a dis-preferred (The left facing fan) way.
Note that at-56Figure 2: Proportions of preferred and dispre-ferred attributes in the Furniture domain.tributes are primed, not values; a participant mayhave heard front facing in the prime turn, whilethe target has a different value for this attribute (cf.Fig.
1).For the two domains, there were 20 preferredand 20 dispreferred trials, giving rise to 2 x (20 +20) = 80 critical trials.
These were presented incounter-balanced blocks, and within blocks eachparticipant received a different random order.
Inaddition, there were 80 filler trials (each followingthe same structure as outlined in Figure 1).
Duringdebriefing, none of the participants indicated theyhad been aware of the experiment?s purpose.ResultsWe use the proportion of attribute alignment asour dependent measure.
Alignment occurs whena participant uses the same attribute in the targetas occurred in the prime.
This includes overspeci-fied descriptions (Engelhardt et al, 2006; Arnold,2008), where both the preferred and dispreferredattributes were mentioned by participants.
Over-specification occurred in 13% of the critical trials(and these were evenly distributed over the exper-imental conditions).The use of the preferred and dispreferred at-tribute as a function of prime and domain is shownin Figure 2 and Figure 3.
In both domains, thepreferred attribute is used much more frequentlythan the dispreferred attribute with the preferredprimes, which serves as a manipulation check.
Asa test of our hypothesis that adaptation processesplay an important role in attribute selection forreferring expressions, we need to look at partic-ipants?
expressions with the dispreferred primes(with the preferred primes, effects of adaptationand of preferences cannot be teased apart).
Cur-rent REG algorithms such as the Incremental Al-gorithm and the Graph-based algorithm predictthat participants will always opt for the preferredFigure 3: Proportions of preferred and dispre-ferred attributes in the People domain.attribute, and hence will not use the dispreferredattribute.
This is not what we observe: our par-ticipants used the dispreferred attribute at a ratesignificantly larger than zero when they had beenexposed to it three turns earlier (tfurniture [25] =6.64, p < 0.01; tpeople [25] = 4.78 p < 0.01).
Ad-ditionally, they used the dispreferred attribute sig-nificantly more when they had previously heardthe dispreferred attribute rather than the preferredattribute.
This difference is especially markedand significant in the Furniture domain (tfurniture[25] = 2.63, p < 0.01, tpeople [25] = 0.98, p <0.34), where participants opt for the dispreferredattribute in 54% of the trials, more frequently thanthey do for the preferred attribute (Fig.
2).3 Experiment IIExperiment II uses the same paradigm used forExperiment I to study whether speaker?s prefer-ences for modifier orderings can be changed byexposing them to dispreferred orderings.MethodParticipants 28 Students (ten males, mean age =23 years and two months) participated for coursecredits.
All were native speakers of Dutch, withouthearing and speech problems.
None participatedin Experiment I.Materials The materials were identical to thoseused in Experiment I, except for their arrangementin the critical trials.
In these trials, the participantscould only identify the target picture using two at-tributes.
In the Furniture domain these were colorand size, in the People domain these were having abeard and wearing glasses.
In the prime turn (TaskI, Fig.
1), these attributes were realized in a pre-ferred way (?size first?
: e.g., the big red sofa, or?glasses first?
: the bespectacled and bearded man)or in a dispreferred way (?color first?
: the red bigsofa or ?beard first?
the bespectacled and bearded57Figure 4: Proportions of preferred and dispre-ferred modifier orderings in the Furniture domain.man).
Google counts for the original Dutch mod-ifier orderings reveal that the ratio of preferred todispreferred is in the order of 40:1 in the Furnituredomain and 3:1 in the People domain.Procedure As above.ResultsWe use the proportion of modifier ordering align-ments as our dependent measure, where alignmentoccurs when the participant?s ordering coincideswith the primed ordering.
Figure 4 and 5 show theuse of the preferred and dispreferred modifier or-dering per prime and domain.
It can be seen thatin the preferred prime conditions, participants pro-duce the expected orderings, more or less in accor-dance with the Google counts.State-of-the-art realizers would always opt forthe most frequent ordering of a given pair of mod-ifiers and hence would never predict the dispre-ferred orderings to occur.
Still, the use of the dis-preferred modifier ordering occurred significantlymore often than one would expect given this pre-diction, tfurniture [27] = 6.56, p < 0.01 and tpeople[27] = 9.55, p < 0.01.
To test our hypotheses con-cerning adaptation, we looked at the dispreferredrealizations when speakers were exposed to dis-preferred primes (compared to preferred primes).In both domains this resulted in an increase of theanount of dispreferred realizations, which was sig-nificant in the People domain (tpeople [27] = 1.99,p < 0.05, tfurniture [25] = 2.63, p < 0.01).4 DiscussionCurrent state-of-the-art REG algorithms often restupon the assumption that some attributes and somerealizations are preferred over others.
The two ex-periments described in this paper show that thisassumption is incorrect, when references are pro-duced in an interactive setting.
In both experi-ments, speakers were more likely to select a dis-Figure 5: Proportions of preferred and dispre-ferred modifier orderings in the People domain.preferred attribute or produce a dispreferred mod-ifier ordering when they had previously been ex-posed to these attributes or orderings, without be-ing aware of this.
These findings fit in well withthe adaptation and alignment models proposed bypsycholinguists, but ours, as far as we know, isthe first experimental evidence of alignment in at-tribute selection and in modifier ordering.
Inter-estingly, we found that effect sizes differ for thedifferent domains, indicating that the trade-off be-tween preferences and adaptions is a gradual one,also influenced by the a priori differences in pref-erence (it is more difficult to make people saysomething truly dispreferred than something moremarginally dispreferred).To account for these findings, GRE algorithmsthat function in an interactive setting should bemade sensitive to the production of dialogue part-ners.
For the Incremental Algorithm (Dale and Re-iter, 1995), this could be achieved by augmentingthe list of preferred attributes with a list of ?previ-ously mentioned?
attributes.
The relative weight-ing of these two lists will be corpus dependent,and can be estimated in a data-driven way.
Alter-natively, in the Graph-based algorithm (Krahmeret al, 2003), costs of properties could be basedon two components: a relatively fixed domaincomponent (preferred is cheaper) and a flexibleinteractive component (recently used is cheaper).Which approach would work best is an open, em-pirical question, but either way this would consti-tute an important step towards interactive REG.AcknowledgmentsThe research reported in this paper forms partof the VICI project ?Bridging the gap betweenpsycholinguistics and Computational linguistics:the case of referring expressions?, funded by theNetherlands Organization for Scientific Research(NWO grant 277-70-007).58ReferencesJennifer Arnold.
2008.
Reference produc-tion: Production-internal and addressee-orientedprocesses.
Language and Cognitive Processes,23(4):495?527.Holly P. Branigan, Martin J. Pickering, Jamie Pearson,and Janet F. McLean.
in press.
Linguistic alignmentbetween people and computers.
Journal of Prag-matics, 23:1?2.Susan E. Brennan and Herbert H. Clark.
1996.
Con-ceptual pacts and lexical choice in conversation.Journal of Experimental Psychology: Learning,Memory, and Cognition, 22:1482?1493.Hendrik Buschmeier, Kirsten Bergmann, and StefanKopp.
2009.
An alignment-capable microplan-ner for Natural Language Generation.
In Proceed-ings of the 12th European Workshop on NaturalLanguage Generation (ENLG 2009), pages 82?89,Athens, Greece, March.
Association for Computa-tional Linguistics.Robert Dale and Ehud Reiter.
1995.
Computationalinterpretations of the gricean maxims in the gener-ation of referring expressions.
Cognitive Science,19(2):233?263.Paul E. Engelhardt, Karl G. Bailey, and Fernanda Fer-reira.
2006.
Do speakers and listeners observe thegricean maxim of quantity?
Journal of Memory andLanguage, 54(4):554?573.Albert Gatt, Ielka van der Sluis, and Kees van Deemter.2007.
Evaluating algorithms for the generation ofreferring expressions using a balanced corpus.
InProceedings of the 11th European Workshop on Nat-ural Language Generation.Srinivasan Janarthanam and Oliver Lemon.
2009.Learning lexical alignment policies for generatingreferring expressions for spoken dialogue systems.In Proceedings of the 12th European Workshop onNatural Language Generation (ENLG 2009), pages74?81, Athens, Greece, March.
Association forComputational Linguistics.Ruud Koolen, Albert Gatt, Martijn Goudbeek, andEmiel Krahmer.
2009.
Need I say more?
on factorscausing referential overspecification.
In Proceed-ings of the PRE-CogSci 2009 Workshop on the Pro-duction of Referring Expressions: Bridging the GapBetween Computational and Empirical Approachesto Reference.Emiel Krahmer, Sebastiaan van Erk, and Andre?
Verleg.2003.
Graph-based generation of referring expres-sions.
Computational Linguistics, 29(1):53?72.Robert Malouf.
2000.
The order of prenominal adjec-tives in natural language generation.
In Proceedingsof the 38th Annual Meeting of the Association forComputational Linguistics, pages 85?92.Chris Mellish, Donia Scott, Lynn Cahill, Daniel Paiva,Roger Evans, and Mike Reape.
2006.
A refer-ence architecture for natural language generationsystems.
Natural Language Engineering, 12:1?34.Margaret Mitchell.
2009.
Class-based ordering ofprenominal modifiers.
In ENLG ?09: Proceedings ofthe 12th European Workshop on Natural LanguageGeneration, pages 50?57, Morristown, NJ, USA.Association for Computational Linguistics.Thomas Pechmann.
1989.
Incremental speech produc-tion and referential overspecification.
Linguistics,27:89?110.Martin Pickering and Simon Garrod.
2004.
Towardsa mechanistic psychology of dialogue.
Behaviouraland Brain Sciences, 27:169?226.Ehud Reiter and Robert Dale.
2000.
Building NaturalLanguage Generation Systems.
Cambridge Univer-sity Press.James Shaw and Vasileios Hatzivassiloglou.
1999.
Or-dering among premodifiers.
In Proceedings of the37th annual meeting of the Association for Compu-tational Linguistics on Computational Linguistics,pages 135?143.59
