Proceedings of the ACL 2010 Conference Short Papers, pages 173?177,Uppsala, Sweden, 11-16 July 2010. c?2010 Association for Computational LinguisticsBalancing User Effort and Translation Error in Interactive MachineTranslation Via Confidence MeasuresJesu?s Gonza?lez-RubioInst.
Tec.
de Informa?ticaUniv.
Polite?c.
de Valencia46021 Valencia, Spainjegonzalez@iti.upv.esDaniel Ortiz-Mart??nezDpto.
de Sist Inf.
y Comp.Univ.
Polite?c.
de Valencia46021 Valencia, Spaindortiz@dsic.upv.esFrancisco CasacubertaDpto.
de Sist Inf.
y Comp.Univ.
Polite?c.
de Valencia46021 Valencia, Spainfcn@dsic.upv.esAbstractThis work deals with the application ofconfidence measures within an interactive-predictive machine translation system inorder to reduce human effort.
If a smallloss in translation quality can be toleratedfor the sake of efficiency, user effort canbe saved by interactively translating onlythose initial translations which the confi-dence measure classifies as incorrect.
Weapply confidence estimation as a way toachieve a balance between user effort sav-ings and final translation error.
Empiri-cal results show that our proposal allowsto obtain almost perfect translations whilesignificantly reducing user effort.1 IntroductionIn Statistical Machine Translation (SMT), thetranslation is modelled as a decission process.
Fora given source string fJ1 = f1 .
.
.
fj .
.
.
fJ , weseek for the target string eI1 = e1 .
.
.
ei .
.
.
eIwhich maximises posterior probability:e?I?1 = argmaxI,eI1Pr(eI1|fJ1 ) .
(1)Within the Interactive-predictive MachineTranslation (IMT) framework, a state-of-the-artSMT system is employed in the following way:For a given source sentence, the SMT systemfully automatically generates an initial translation.A human translator checks this translation fromleft to right, correcting the first error.
The SMTsystem then proposes a new extension, taking thecorrect prefix ei1 = e1 .
.
.
ei into account.
Thesesteps are repeated until the whole input sentencehas been correctly translated.
In the resultingdecision rule, we maximise over all possibleextensions eIi+1 of ei1:e?I?i+1 = argmaxI,eIi+1Pr(eIi+1|ei1, fJ1 ) .
(2)An implementation of the IMT famework wasperformed in the TransType project (Foster et al,1997; Langlais et al, 2002) and further improvedwithin the TransType2 project (Esteban et al,2004; Barrachina et al, 2009).IMT aims at reducing the effort and increas-ing the productivity of translators, while preserv-ing high-quality translation.
In this work, we inte-grate Confidence Measures (CMs) within the IMTframework to further reduce the user effort.
Aswill be shown, our proposal allows to balance theratio between user effort and final translation error.1.1 Confidence MeasuresConfidence estimation have been extensively stud-ied for speech recognition.
Only recently have re-searchers started to investigate CMs for MT (Gan-drabur and Foster, 2003; Blatz et al, 2004; Ueffingand Ney, 2007).Different TransType-style MT systems use con-fidence information to improve translation predic-tion accuracy (Gandrabur and Foster, 2003; Ueff-ing and Ney, 2005).
In this work, we propose a fo-cus shift in which CMs are used to modify the in-teraction between the user and the system insteadof modify the IMT translation predictions.To compute CMs we have to select suitable con-fidence features and define a binary classifier.
Typ-ically, the classification is carried out dependingon whether the confidence value exceeds a giventhreshold or not.2 IMT with Sentence CMsIn the conventional IMT scenario a human trans-lator and a SMT system collaborate in order toobtain the translation the user has in mind.
Oncethe user has interactively translated the source sen-tences, the output translations are error-free.
Wepropose an alternative scenario where not all thesource sentences are interactively translated by theuser.
Specifically, only those source sentences173whose initial fully automatic translation are incor-rect, according to some quality criterion, are in-teractively translated.
We propose to use CMs asthe quality criterion to classify those initial trans-lations.Our approach implies a modification of theuser-machine interaction protocol.
For a givensource sentence, the SMT system generates an ini-tial translation.
Then, if the CM classifies thistranslation as correct, we output it as our finaltranslation.
On the contrary, if the initial trans-lation is classified as incorrect, we perform a con-ventional IMT procedure, validating correct pre-fixes and generating new suffixes, until the sen-tence that the user has in mind is reached.In our scenario, we allow the final translationsto be different from the ones the user has in mind.This implies that the output may contain errors.If a small loss in translation can be tolerated forthe sake of efficiency, user effort can be saved byinteractively translating only those sentences thatthe CMs classify as incorrect.It is worth of notice that our proposal can beseen as a generalisation of the conventional IMTapproach.
Varying the value of the CM classifi-cation threshold, we can range from a fully auto-matic SMT system where all sentences are clas-sified as correct to a conventional IMT systemwhere all sentences are classified as incorrect.2.1 Selecting a CM for IMTWe compute sentence CMs by combining thescores given by a word CM based on the IBMmodel 1 (Brown et al, 1993), similar to the onedescribed in (Blatz et al, 2004).
We modified thisword CM by replacing the average by the max-imal lexicon probability, because the average isdominated by this maximum (Ueffing and Ney,2005).
We choose this word CM because it can becalculated very fast during search, which is cru-cial given the time constraints of the IMT sys-tems.
Moreover, its performance is similar to thatof other word CMs as results presented in (Blatzet al, 2003; Blatz et al, 2004) show.
The wordconfidence value of word ei, cw(ei), is given bycw(ei) = max0?j?Jp(ei|fj) , (3)where p(ei|fj) is the IBM model 1 lexicon proba-bility, and f0 is the empty source word.From this word CM, we compute two sentenceCMs which differ in the way the word confidenceSpanish EnglishTrain Sentences 214.5KRunning words 5.8M 5.2MVocabulary 97.4K 83.7KDev.
Sentences 400Running words 11.5K 10.1KPerplexity (trigrams) 46.1 59.4TestSentences 800Running words 22.6K 19.9KPerplexity (trigrams) 45.2 60.8Table 1: Statistics of the Spanish?English EU cor-pora.
K and M denote thousands and millions ofelements respectively.scores cw(ei) are combined:MEAN CM (cM (eI1)) is computed as the geo-metric mean of the confidence scores of thewords in the sentence:cM (eI1) =I???
?I?i=1cw(ei) .
(4)RATIO CM (cR(eI1)) is computed as the percent-age of words classified as correct in the sen-tence.
A word is classified as correct ifits confidence exceeds a word classificationthreshold ?w.cR(eI1) =|{ei / cw(ei) > ?w}|I(5)After computing the confidence value, each sen-tence is classified as either correct or incorrect, de-pending on whether its confidence value exceedsor not a sentence clasiffication threshold ?s.
If?s = 0.0 then all the sentences will be classifiedas correct whereas if ?s = 1.0 all the sentenceswill be classified as incorrect.3 ExperimentationThe aim of the experimentation was to study thepossibly trade-off between saved user effort andtranslation error obtained when using sentenceCMs within the IMT framework.3.1 System evaluationIn this paper, we report our results as measuredby Word Stroke Ratio (WSR) (Barrachina et al,2009).
WSR is used in the context of IMT to mea-sure the effort required by the user to generate her1740204060801000  0.2  0.4  0.6  0.8  1020406080100WSRBLEUThreshold (?s)WSR IMT-CMBLEU IMT-CMWSR IMTBLEU SMTFigure 1: BLEU translation scores versus WSRfor different values of the sentence classificationthreshold using the MEAN CM.translations.
WSR is computed as the ratio be-tween the number of word-strokes a user wouldneed to achieve the translation she has in mind andthe total number of words in the sentence.
In thiscontext, a word-stroke is interpreted as a single ac-tion, in which the user types a complete word, andis assumed to have constant cost.Additionally, and because our proposal allowsdifferences between its output and the referencetranslation, we will also present translation qual-ity results in terms of BiLingual Evaluation Un-derstudy (BLEU) (Papineni et al, 2002).
BLEUcomputes a geometric mean of the precision of n-grams multiplied by a factor to penalise short sen-tences.3.2 Experimental SetupOur experiments were carried out on the EU cor-pora (Barrachina et al, 2009).
The EU corporawere extracted from the Bulletin of the EuropeanUnion.
The EU corpora is composed of sentencesgiven in three different language pairs.
Here, wewill focus on the Spanish?English part of the EUcorpora.
The corpus is divided into training, de-velopment and test sets.
The main figures of thecorpus can be seen in Table 1.As a first step, be built a SMT system to trans-late from Spanish into English.
This was doneby means of the Thot toolkit (Ortiz et al, 2005),which is a complete system for building phrase-based SMT models.
This toolkit involves the esti-mation, from the training set, of different statisti-cal models, which are in turn combined in a log-linear fashion by adjusting a weight for each ofthem by means of the MERT (Och, 2003) proce-0204060801000  0.2  0.4  0.6  0.8  1020406080100WSRBLEUThreshold (?s)WSR IMT-CM (?w=0.4)BLEU IMT-CM (?w=0.4)WSR IMTBLEU SMTFigure 2: BLEU translation scores versus WSRfor different values of the sentence classificationthreshold using the RATIO CM with ?w = 0.4.dure, optimising the BLEU score on the develop-ment set.The IMT system which we have implementedrelies on the use of word graphs (Ueffing et al,2002) to efficiently compute the suffix for a givenprefix.
A word graph has to be generated for eachsentence to be interactively translated.
For thispurpose, we used a multi-stack phrase-based de-coder which will be distributed in the near futuretogether with the Thot toolkit.
We discarded touse the state-of-the-art Moses toolkit (Koehn etal., 2007) because preliminary experiments per-formed with it revealed that the decoder by Ortiz-Mart?
?nez et al (2005) performs better in terms ofWSR when used to generate word graphs for theiruse in IMT (Sanchis-Trilles et al, 2008).
More-over, the performance difference in regular SMT isnegligible.
The decoder was set to only considermonotonic translation, since in real IMT scenar-ios considering non-monotonic translation leads toexcessive response time for the user.Finally, the obtained word graphs were usedwithin the IMT procedure to produce the refer-ence translations in the test set, measuring WSRand BLEU.3.3 ResultsWe carried out a series of experiments ranging thevalue of the sentence classification threshold ?s,between 0.0 (equivalent to a fully automatic SMTsystem) and 1.0 (equivalent to a conventional IMTsystem), for both the MEAN and RATIO CMs.For each threshold value, we calculated the effortof the user in terms of WSR, and the translationquality of the final output as measured by BLEU.175src-1 DECLARACI ?ON (No 17) relativa al derecho de acceso a la informacio?nref-1 DECLARATION (No 17) on the right of access to informationtra-1 DECLARATION (No 17) on the right of access to informationsrc-2 Conclusiones del Consejo sobre el comercio electro?nico y los impuestos indirectos.ref-2 Council conclusions on electronic commerce and indirect taxation.tra-2 Council conclusions on e-commerce and indirect taxation.src-3 participacio?n de los pa?
?ses candidatos en los programas comunitarios.ref-3 participation of the applicant countries in Community programmes.tra-3 countries?
involvement in Community programmes.Example 1: Examples of initial fully automatically generated sentences classified as correct by the CMs.Figure 1 shows WSR (WSR IMT-CM) andBLEU (BLEU IMT-CM) scores obtained varying?s for the MEAN CM.
Additionally, we also showthe BLEU score (BLEU SMT) obtained by a fullyautomatic SMT system as translation quality base-line, and the WSR score (WSR IMT) obtained bya conventional IMT system as user effort baseline.This figure shows a continuous transition betweenthe fully automatic SMT system and the conven-tional IMT system.
This transition occurs whenranging ?s between 0.0 and 0.6.
This is an unde-sired effect, since for almost a half of the possiblevalues for ?s there is no change in the behaviourof our proposed IMT system.The RATIO CM confidence values depend ona word classification threshold ?w.
We have car-ried out experimentation ranging ?w between 0.0and 1.0 and found that this value can be used tosolve the above mentioned undesired effect forthe MEAN CM.
Specifically, varying the value of?w we can stretch the interval in which the tran-sition between the fully automatic SMT systemand the conventional IMT system is produced, al-lowing us to obtain smother transitions.
Figure 2shows WSR and BLEU scores for different val-ues of the sentence classification threshold ?s us-ing ?w = 0.4.
We show results only for this valueof ?w due to paper space limitations and because?w = 0.4 produced the smoothest transition.
Ac-cording to Figure 2, using a sentence classificationthreshold value of 0.6 we obtain a WSR reductionof 20% relative and an almost perfect translationquality of 87 BLEU points.It is worth of notice that the final translationsare compared with only one reference, therefore,the reported translation quality scores are clearlypessimistic.
Better results are expected using amulti-reference corpus.
Example 1 shows thesource sentence (src), the reference translation(ref) and the final translation (tra) for three of theinitial fully automatically generated translationsthat were classified as correct by our CMs, andthus, were not interactively translated by the user.The first translation (tra-1) is identical to the corre-sponding reference translation (ref-1).
The secondtranslation (tra-2) corresponds to a correct trans-lation of the source sentence (src-2) that is differ-ent from the corresponding reference (ref-2).
Fi-nally, the third translation (tra-3) is an example ofa slightly incorrect translation.4 Concluding RemarksIn this paper, we have presented a novel proposalthat introduces sentence CMs into an IMT systemto reduce user effort.
Our proposal entails a mod-ification of the user-machine interaction protocolthat allows to achieve a balance between the usereffort and the final translation error.We have carried out experimentation using twodifferent sentence CMs.
Varying the value ofthe sentence classification threshold, we can rangefrom a fully automatic SMT system to a conven-tional IMT system.
Empirical results show thatour proposal allows to obtain almost perfect trans-lations while significantly reducing user effort.Future research aims at the investigation of im-proved CMs to be integrated in our IMT system.AcknowledgmentsWork supported by the EC (FEDER/FSE) andthe Spanish MEC/MICINN under the MIPRCV?Consolider Ingenio 2010?
program (CSD2007-00018), the iTransDoc (TIN2006-15694-CO2-01)and iTrans2 (TIN2009-14511) projects and theFPU scholarship AP2006-00691.
Also supportedby the Spanish MITyC under the erudito.com(TSI-020110-2009-439) project and by the Gener-alitat Valenciana under grant Prometeo/2009/014.176ReferencesS.
Barrachina, O. Bender, F. Casacuberta, J. Civera,E.
Cubel, S. Khadivi, A. Lagarda, H. Ney, J. Toma?s,and E. Vidal.
2009.
Statistical approaches tocomputer-assisted translation.
Computational Lin-guistics, 35(1):3?28.J.
Blatz, E. Fitzgerald, G. Foster, S. Gandrabur,C.
Goutte, A. Kulesza, A. Sanchis, and N. Ueffing.2003.
Confidence estimation for machine transla-tion.J.
Blatz, E. Fitzgerald, G. Foster, S. Gandrabur,C.
Goutte, A. Kuesza, A. Sanchis, and N. Ueffing.2004.
Confidence estimation for machine transla-tion.
In Proc.
COLING, page 315.P.
F. Brown, S. A. Della Pietra, V. J. Della Pietra, andR.
L. Mercer.
1993.
The Mathematics of StatisticalMachine Translation: Parameter Estimation.
Com-putational Linguistics, 19(2):263?311.J.
Esteban, J. Lorenzo, A. Valderra?banos, and G. La-palme.
2004.
Transtype2: an innovative computer-assisted translation system.
In Proc.
ACL, page 1.G.
Foster, P. Isabelle, and P. Plamondon.
1997.
Target-text mediated interactive machine translation.
Ma-chine Translation, 12:12?175.S.
Gandrabur and G. Foster.
2003.
Confidence esti-mation for text prediction.
In Proc.
CoNLL, pages315?321.P.
Koehn, H. Hoang, A. Birch, C. Callison-Burch,M.
Federico, N. Bertoldi, B. Cowan, W. Shen,C.
Moran, R. Zens, C. Dyer, O. Bojar, A. Constantin,and E. Herbst.
2007.
Moses: Open source toolkitfor statistical machine translation.
In Proc.
ACL,pages 177?180.P.
Langlais, G. Lapalme, and M. Loranger.
2002.Transtype: Development-evaluation cycles to boosttranslator?s productivity.
Machine Translation,15(4):77?98.F.
J. Och.
2003.
Minimum error rate training in statis-tical machine translation.
In Proc.
ACL, pages 160?167.D.
Ortiz, I.
Garc?
?a-Varea, and F. Casacuberta.
2005.Thot: a toolkit to train phrase-based statistical trans-lation models.
In Proc.
MT Summit, pages 141?148.K.
Papineni, S. Roukos, T. Ward, and W. Zhu.
2002.BLEU: a method for automatic evaluation of MT.In Proc.
ACL, pages 311?318.G.
Sanchis-Trilles, D.
Ortiz-Mart?
?nez, J. Civera,F.
Casacuberta, E. Vidal, and H. Hoang.
2008.
Im-proving interactive machine translation via mouseactions.
In Proc.
EMNLP, pages 25?27.N.
Ueffing and H. Ney.
2005.
Application of word-level confidence measures in interactive statisticalmachine translation.
In Proc.
EAMT, pages 262?270.N.
Ueffing and H. Ney.
2007.
Word-level confidenceestimation for machine translation.
Comput.
Lin-guist., 33(1):9?40.N.
Ueffing, F.J. Och, and H. Ney.
2002.
Generationof word graphs in statistical machine translation.
InProc.
EMNLP, pages 156?163.177
