Proceedings of the 48th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics, pages 798?805,Uppsala, Sweden, 11-16 July 2010. c?2010 Association for Computational LinguisticsNow, where was I?Resumption strategies for an in-vehicle dialogue systemJessica VillingGraduate School of Language Technology andDepartment of Philosophy, Linguistics and Theory of ScienceUniversity of Gothenburgjessica@ling.gu.seAbstractIn-vehicle dialogue systems often containmore than one application, e.g.
a navi-gation and a telephone application.
Thismeans that the user might, for example, in-terrupt the interaction with the telephoneapplication to ask for directions from thenavigation application, and then resumethe dialogue with the telephone applica-tion.
In this paper we present an anal-ysis of interruption and resumption be-haviour in human-human in-vehicle dia-logues and also propose some implicationsfor resumption strategies in an in-vehicledialogue system.1 IntroductionMaking it useful and enjoyable to use a dialoguesystem is always important.
The dialogue shouldbe easy and intuitive, otherwise the user will notfind it worth the effort and instead prefer to usemanual controls or to speak to a human.However, when designing an in-vehicle dia-logue system there is one more thing that needsto be taken into consideration, namely the fact thatthe user is performing an additional, safety crit-ical, task - driving.
The so-called 100-car study(Neale et al, 2005) revealed that secondary taskdistraction is the largest cause of driver inatten-tion, and that the handling of wireless devices isthe most common secondary task.
Even if spokendialogue systems enables manouvering of deviceswithout using hands or eyes, it is crucial to ad-just the interaction to the in-vehicle environmentin order to minimize distraction from the interac-tion itself.
Therefore the dialogue system shouldconsider the cognitive load of the driver and ad-just the dialogue accordingly.
One way of doingthis is to continously measure the cognitive work-load level of the driver and, if the workload is high,determine type of workload and act accordingly.If the workload is dialogue-induced (i.e.
causedby the dialogue itself), it might be necessary torephrase or offer the user help with the task.
Ifthe workload is driving-induced (i.e.
caused bythe driving task), the user might need informationthat is crucial for the driving task (e.g.
get nav-igation instructions), or to pause the dialogue inorder to enable the user to concentrate on the driv-ing task (Villing, 2009).
Both the driver and thesystem should be able to initiate interruptions.When the interaction with a dialogue system hasbeen interrupted, e.g.
because the user has not an-swered a question, it is common that the systemreturns to the top menu.
This means that if theuser wants to finish the interrupted task she hasto restart from the beginning, which is both time-consuming and annoying.
Instead, the dialoguesystem should be able to either pause until theworkload is low or change topic and/or domain,and then resume where the interruption took place.However, resumption of an interrupted topic needsto be done in a way that minimizes the risk thatthe cognitive workload increases again.
Althougha lot of research has been done regarding dialoguesystem output, very little work has been done re-garding resumption of an interrupted topic.
In thispaper we will analyse human-human in-vehicle di-alogue to find out how resumptions are done inhuman-human dialogue and propose some impli-cations for resumption strategies in a dialogue sys-tem.2 Related workTo study resumption behaviour, Yang (2009), car-ried out a data collection where the participantswere switching between an ongoing task (a cardgame) and a real-time task (a picture game).
Theparticipants randomly had to interrupt the ongo-ing task to solve a problem in the real-time task.When studying the resumption behaviour after an798interruption to the real-time task they found thatthe resuming utterance contained various amountsand types of redundant information depending onwhether the interruption occured in the middle ofa card discussion, at the end of a card or at theend of a card game.
If the interruption occuredin the middle of a card discussion it was possibleto make a distinction between utterance restate-ment (repeat one?s own utterance, repeat the dia-logue partners utterance or clarification of the dia-logue partners utterance) and card review (review-ing all the cards on hand although this informationhad already been given).
They found that the be-haviour is similar to grounding behaviour, wherethe speaker use repetition and requests for repeti-tion to ensure that the utterance is understood.3 Data collectionA data collection has been carried out within theDICO project (see, for example, (Larsson andVilling, 2007)) to study how an additional distrac-tion or increase in the cognitive load would affect adriver?s dialogue behaviour.
The goal was to elicita natural dialogue (as opposed to giving the drivera constructed task such as for example a math task)and make the participants engage in the conversa-tion.The participants (two female and six male) be-tween the ages of 25 and 36 drove a car in pairswhile interviewing each other.
The interviewquestions and the driving instructions were givento the passenger, hence the driver knew neitherwhat questions to discuss nor the route in advance.Therefore, the driver had to signal, implicitly orexplicitly, when she wanted driving instructionsand when she wanted a new question to discuss.The passenger too had to have a strategy for whento change topic.
The reasons for this setup wasto elicit a natural and fairly intense dialogue andto force the participants to frequently change topicand/or domain (e.g.
to get driving instructions).The participants changed roles after 30 minutes,which meant that each participant acted both asdriver and as passenger.
The cognitive load of thedriver was measured in two ways.
The driver per-formed a Tactile Detection Task (TDT) (van Win-sum et al, 1999).
When using a TDT, a buzzeris attached to the driver?s wrist.
The driver is toldto push a button each time the summer is activated.Cognitive load is determined by measuring hit-rateand reaction time.
Although the TDT task in itselfmight cause an increased workload level, the taskis performed during the whole session and therebyit is possible to distinguish high workload causedby something else but the TDT task.Workload was also measured by using an IDISsystem (Brostr?m et al, 2006).
IDIS determinesworkload based on the driver?s behaviour (for ex-ample, steering wheel movements or applying thebrake).
What differs between the two measure-ments is that the TDT measures the actual work-load of each driver, while IDIS makes its assump-tions based on knowledge of what manouvres areusually cognitively demanding.The participants were audio- and videotaped,the recordings are transcribed with the transcrip-tion tool ELAN1, using an orthographic transcrip-tion.
All in all 3590 driver utterances and 4382passenger utterances are transcribed.
An annota-tion scheme was designed to enable analysis ofutterances with respect to topic change for eachdomain.Domain and topic was defined as:?
interview domain: discussions about the in-terview questions where each interview ques-tion was defined as a topic?
navigation domain: navigation-related dis-cussions where each navigation instructionwas defined as a topic?
traffic domain: discussions about the trafficsituation and fellow road-users where eachcomment not belonging to a previous eventwas defined as a topic?
other domain: anything that does not fitwithin the above domains where each com-ment not belonging to a previous event wasdefined as a topicTopic changes has been coded as follows:?
begin-topic: whatever?
new topic?
I.e., the participants start discussing aninterview question, a navigation instruc-tion, make a remark about the trafficor anything else that has not been dis-cussed before.?
end-topic: finished topic?
whatever1http://www.lat-mpi.eu/tools/elan/799?
A topic is considered finished if a ques-tion is answered or if an instruction or aremark is confirmed.?
interrupt-topic: unfinished topic?
whatever?
An utterance is considered to interrupt ifit belongs to another topic than the pre-vious utterance and the previous topichas not been ended with an end-topic.?
resume-topic: whatever?
unfinished topic?
A topic is considered to be resumed ifit has been discussed earlier but was notbeen finished by an end-topic but insteadinterrupted with an interrupt-topic.?
reraise-topic: whatever?
finished topic?
A topic is considered to be reraised if ithas been discussed before and then beenfinished with an end-topic.The utterances have been categorised accordingto the following schema:?
DEC: declarative?
(?You are a Leo and I am a Gemini?,?This is Ekelund Street?)?
INT: interrogative?
(?What do you eat for breakfast?
?,?Should we go back after this??)?
IMP: imperative?
(?Go on!?)?
ANS: ?yes?
or ?no?
answer (and variationssuch as ?sure, absolutely, nope, no way?)?
NP: bare noun phrase?
(?Wolfmother?, ?Otterhall Street?)?
ADVP: bare adverbial phrase?
(?Further into Karlavagn Street?)?
INC: incomplete phrase?
(?Well, did I answer the?, ?Should we?
)Cognitive load has been annotated as:?
reliable workload: annotated when work-load is reliably high according to the TDT(reliability was low if response button waspressed more than 2 times after the event).?
high: high workload according to IDIS?
low: low workload according to IDISThe annotation schema has not been tested forinter-coder reliability.
While full reliability test-ing would have further strengthened the results,we believe that our results are still useful as a basisfor future implementation and experimental work.4 ResultsThe codings from the DICO data collection hasbeen analysed with respect to interruption and re-sumption of topics (interrupt-topic and resume-topic, respectively).
Interruption can be done intwo ways, either to pause the dialogue or to changetopic and/or domain.
In the DICO corpus there arevery few interruptions followed by a pause.
Thereason is probably that both the driver and the pas-senger were strongly engaged in the interview andnavigation tasks.
The fact that the driver did notknow the route elicited frequent switches to thenavigation domain done by both the driver and thepassenger, as can be seen in Figure 1.
Therefore,we have only analysed interruption and resump-tion from and to the interview and navigation do-mains.!"#!"$!"%!"&!"'!!"()*+,-(+."
)/-(" *,/01" 2*3+,"Figure 1: Distribution of utterances coded asinterrupt-topic for each domain, when interrupt-ing from an interview topic.4.1 RedundancyThe easiest way of resuming an interrupted topicin a dialogue system is to repeat the last phrase thatwas uttered before the interruption.
One disda-vantage of this method is that the dialogue systemmight be seen as tedious, especially if there areseveral interruptions during the interaction.
Wewanted to see if the resuming utterances in human-human dialogue are redundant and if redundancyhas anything to do with the length of the inter-ruption.
We therefore sorted all utterances coded800as resume-topic in two categories, those whichcontained redundant information when comparingwith the last utterance before the interruption, andthose which did not contain and redundant infor-mation.
As a redundant utterance we counted allutterances that repeated one or more words fromthe last utterance before the interruption.
We thencounted the number of turns between the interrup-tion and resumption.
The number of turns variedbetween 1 and 42.
The result can be seen in Figure2.!"#"$!"$#"%!"%#"&'()*""""""+,-"*.)/01"2345.6"+#78"*.)/01"9(/:"""""""""""""""""+;$!"*.
)/01"<(/=)34./4>/*"?34./4>/*"Figure 2: Number of redundant utterances depend-ing on length of interruption.As can be seen, there are twice as many non-redundant as redundant utterances after a shortinterruption (?4 turns), while there are almostsolely redundant utterances after a long interrup-tion (?10 turns).
The average number of turnsis 3,5 when no redundancy occur, and 11,5 whenthere are redundancy.
When the number of turnsexceeds 12, there are only redundant utterances.4.2 CategoryFigure 3 shows the distribution, sorted per cate-gory, of driver utterances when resuming to an in-terview and a navigation topic.
Figure 4 shows thecorresponding figures for passenger utterances.!"#$!"#%!"#&!"#'!"#(!
"#)*+# ,-+# ,-.# -/# 0-1# 0)2/#345678369#4:83#Figure 3: Driver resuming to the interview andnavigation domains.The driver?s behaviour is similar both when re-suming to an interview and a navigation topic.Declarative phrases are most common, followedby incomplete, interrogative (for interview topics)and noun phrases.!"#$!"#%!"#&!"#'!"#(!
"#)*+# ,-+# ,-.# -/# ,0/# 1)2/#345678369#4:83#Figure 4: Passenger resuming to the interview andnavigation domains.When looking at the passenger utterances wesee a lot of variation between the domains.
Whenresuming to an interview topic the passengeruses mostly declarative phrases, followed by nounphrases and interrogative phrases.
When resum-ing to a navigation topic imperative phrases aremost common, followed by declarative phrases.Only the passenger use imperative phrases, proba-bly since the passenger is managing both the inter-view questions and the navigation instructions andtherefore is the one that is forcing both the inter-view and the navigation task through.4.3 Workload levelThe in-vehicle environment is forcing the driver tocarry out tasks during high cognitive workload.
Tominimize the risk of increasing the workload fur-ther, an in-vehicle dialogue system should be ableto decide when to interrupt and when to resume atopic depending on the driver?s workload level.The figures in this section shows workload leveland type of workload during interruption and re-sumption to and from topics in the interview do-main.
When designing the interview and naviga-tion tasks that were to be carried out during thedata collection, we focused on designing them sothat the participants were encouraged to discussas much as possible with each other.
Therefore,the navigation instructions sometimes were hardto understand, which forced the participants to dis-cuss the instructions and together try to interpretthem.
Therefore we have not analysed the work-load level while interrupting and resuming topicsin the navigation domain since the result might be801misleading.Type of workload is determined by analysingthe TDT and IDIS signals described in 3.
Work-load is considered to be dialogue-induced whenonly the TDT is indicating high workload (sincethe TDT indicates that the driver is carrying out atask that is cognitively demanding but IDIS is notindicating that the driving task is demanding at themoment), driving-induced when both the TDT andIDIS is indicating high workload (since the TDT isindicating that the workload level is high and IDISis indicating that the driving task is demanding)and possibly driving-induced when only IDIS isindicating high workload (since IDIS admittedlyis indicating that the driving task is demandingbut the TDT indicates that the driver?s workload islow, it could then be that this particular driver doesnot experience the driving task demanding eventhough the average driver does) (Villing, 2009).The data has been normalized for variation inworkload time.
The diagrams shows the distri-bution of interruption and resumption utterancesmade by the driver and the passenger, respectively.dialogue-inducedpossibly dr iv ing-induceddriv ing-inducedlow workloadPage 1Figure 5: Workload while the driver is interruptingan interview topic.dialogue-inducedpossibly dr iv ing-induceddriv ing-inducedlow workloadPage 1Figure 6: Workload while the passenger is inter-rupting an interview topic.Figures 5 and 6 show driver workload levelwhile the driver and the passenger (respectively)are interrupting from the interview domain.
Thedriver most often interrupts during a possibledriving-induced or low workload, the same goesfor the passenger but in opposite order.
It isleast common for the driver to interrupt dur-ing dialogue- or driving-induced workload, whilethe passenger rarely interrupts during dialogue-induced and never during driving-induced work-load.dialogue-inducedpossible dr iv ing-induceddriv ing-inducedlow workloadPage 1Figure 7: Workload while driver is resuming to theinterview domain.dialogue-inducedpossible dr iv ing-induceddriv ing-inducedlow workloadPage 1Figure 8: Workload while passenger is resumingto the interview domain.Figures 7 and 8 show workload level while thedriver and the passenger (respectively) are resum-ing to the interview domain.
The driver most of-ten resumes while the workload is low or possi-bly driving-induced, while the passenger is mostlyresuming during low workload and never duringdriving-induced workload.5 DiscussionFor both driver and passenger, the most commonway to resume an interview topic is to use a declar-ative utterance, which is illustrated in Figure 3.When studying the utterances in detail we can seethat there is a difference when comparing infor-mation redundancy similar to what Yang (2009)describe in their paper.
They compared grade of802redundancy based on where in the dialogue the in-terruption occur, what we have looked at in theDICO corpus is how many turns the interruptingdiscussion contains.As Figure 2 shows, if the number of turns isabout three (on average, 3,5), the participants tendto continue the interrupted topic exactly where itwas interrupted, without considering that there hadbeen any interruption.
The speaker however of-ten makes some sort of sequencing move to an-nounce that he or she is about to switch domainand/or topic, either by using a standard phrase orby making an extra-lingustic sound like, for exam-ple, lipsmack or breathing (Villing et al, 2008).Example (1) shows how the driver interrupts a dis-cussion about what book he is currently reading toget navigation instructions:(1) Driver: What I read now is Sofie?sworld.Driver (interrupting): Yes, where doyou want me to drive?Passenger: Straight ahead,straight ahead.Driver: Straight ahead.
Alright,I?ll do that.Passenger (resuming): Alright [sequencingmove].
Enemy of the enemy wasthe last one I read.
[DEC]If the number of turns is higher than ten (on av-erage, 11,5) the resuming speaker makes a redun-dant utterance, repeating one or more words fromthe last utterance before the interruption.
See ex-ample (2):(2) Driver: Actually, I have always beeninterested in computers andtechnology.Passenger (interrupting): Turn rightto Vasaplatsen.
Is it here?No, this is Gr?nsakstorget.Driver: This is Gr?nsakstorget.We have passed Vasaplatsen.... (Discussion about how toturn around and get back toVasaplatsen, all in all 21turns.
)Driver (resuming): Well, as I said[sequencing move].
I havealways been interested incomputer and computers andtechnology and stuff like that.
[DEC]The passenger often uses a bare noun phrase toresume, the noun phrase can repeat a part of theinterview question.
For example, after a discus-sion about wonders of the world, which was inter-rupted by a discussion about which way to go next,the passenger resumed by uttering the single word?wonders?
which was immediatly understood bythe driver as a resumption to the interview topic.The noun phrase can also be a key phrase in thedialogue partner?s answer as in example (3) wherethe participants discuss their favourite band:(3) Driver: I like Wolfmother, do you knowabout them?Passenger: I?ve never heard aboutthem.
[...] You have to bringa cd so I can listen to them.Driver (interrupting): Where was Isupposed to turn?...
(Navigation discussion, allin all 13 turns.
)Passenger (resuming): [LAUGHS]Wolfmother.
[NP]When resuming to the navigation domain, thedriver mostly uses a declarative phrase, typicallyto clarify an instruction.
It is also common to usean interrogative phrase or an incomplete phrasesuch as ?should I...?
which the passenger answersby clarifying which way to go.
The passenger in-stead uses mostly imperative phrases as a reminderof the last instruction, such as ?keep straight on?.When the speakers interrupts an interview topicthey mostly switch to the navigation domain, seeFigure 1.
That means that the most common rea-son for the speaker to interrupt is to ask for or giveinformation that is crucial for the driving task (asopposed for the other and traffic domains, whichare mostly used to signal that the speaker?s cogni-tive load level is high (Villing et al, 2008)).
Ascan be seen in Figures 5 and 6, the driver mostlyinterrupts the interview domain during a possi-ble driving-induced workload while the passen-ger mostly interrupts during low workload.
Asnoted above (see also Figure 3), the utterances aremostly declarative (?this is Ekelund Street?
), in-terrogative (?and now I turn left??)
or incomplete(?and then...?
), while the passenger gives addi-tional information that the driver has not asked forexplicitly but the passenger judges that the drivermight need (?just go straight ahead in the nextcrossing?, ?here is where we should turn towardsJ?rntorget?).
Hence, it seems like the driver inter-rupts to make clarification utterances that must beanswered immediately, for example, right before a803crossing when the driver has pressed the brakes orturned on the turn signal (and therefore the IDISsystem signals high workload which is interpretedas driving-induced workload) while the passengertake the chance to give additional information inadvance, before it is needed, and the workloadtherefore is low.Figure 7 shows that the driver mostly resumesto the interview domain during low or possibledriving-induced workload.
Since the IDIS systemmakes its assumption on driving behaviour, basedon what the average driver finds cognitively de-manding, it might sometimes be so that the systemovergenerates and indicates high workload eventhough the driver at hand does not find the driv-ing task cognitively demanding.
This might be anexplanation to these results, since the driver of-ten resumes to an interview topic although he orshe is, for example, driving through a roundaboutor pushing the brakes.
It is also rather commonthat the driver is resuming to an interview ques-tion during dialogue-induced workload, perhapsbecause she has started thinking about an answerto a question and therefore the TDT indicates highworkload and the IDIS does not.
The passengermostly resumes to the interview domain duringlow workload, which indicates that the passengeranalyses both the traffic situation and the state ofmind of the driver before he or she wants to drawthe drivers attention from the driving task.6 Implications for in-vehicle dialoguesystemsIn this paper we point at some of the dialoguestrategies that are used in human-human dialogueduring high cognitive load when resuming to aninterrupted topic.
These strategies should be takenunder consideration when implementing an in-vehicle dialogue system.To make the dialogue natural and easy to under-stand the dialogue manager should consider whichdomain it will resume to and the number of turnsbetween the interruption and resumption beforedeciding what phrase to use as output.
For ex-ample, the results indicate that it might be moresuitable to use a declarative phrase when resum-ing to a domain where the system is asking theuser for information, for example when addingsongs to a play list at the mp3-player (cf.
the in-terview domain).
If the number of turns are 4 orless, it probably does not have to make a redun-dant utterance at all, but may continue the discus-sion where it was interrupted.
If the number ofturns exceeds 4 it is probably smoother to let thesystem just repeat one or more keywords from theinterrupted utterance to make the user understandwhat topic should be discussed, instead of repeat-ing the whole utterance or even start the task fromthe beginning.
This will make the system feel lesstedious which should have a positive effect on thecognitive workload level.
However, user tests areprobably needed to decide how much redundantinformation is necessary when talking to a dia-logue system, since it may well differ from talkingto a human being who is able to help the listenerunderstand by, for example, emphasizing certainwords in a way that is currently impossible for acomputer.
When resuming to a domain where thesystem has information to give to the user it is suit-able to make a short, informative utterance (e.g.
?turn left here?, ?traffic jam ahead, turn left in-stead?
).Finally, it is also important to consider the cog-nitive workload level of the user to determinewhen - and if - to resume, and also whether thetopic that is to be resumed belongs to a domainwhere the system has information to give to theuser, or a domain where the user gives informa-tion to the system.
For example, if the user is us-ing a navigation system and he or she is experi-encing driving-induced workload when approach-ing e.g.
a crossing, it might be a good idea to giveadditional navigation information even though theuser has not explicitly asked for it.
If the user how-ever is using a telephone application it is probablybetter to let the user initiate the resumption.
TheDICO corpus shows that it is the passenger that ismost careful not to interrupt or resume when thedriver?s workload is high, indicating that the sys-tem should let the user decide whether it is suit-able to resume during high workload, while it ismore accepted to let the system interrupt and re-sume when the workload is low.When resuming to the interview domain thedriver (i.e.
the user) mostly uses declarativephrases, either as an answer to a question or as aredundant utterance to clarify what was last saidbefore the interruption.
Therefore the dialoguesystem should be able to store not only what hasbeen agreed upon regarding the interrupted task,but also the last few utterances to make it possibleto interpret the user utterance as a resumption.804It is common that the driver utterances are in-complete, perhaps due to the fact that the driver?sprimary task is the driving and therefore his or hermind is not always set on the dialogue task.
Lind-str?m (2008) showed that deletions are the mostcommon disfluency during high cognitive load,which is supported by the results in this paper.
Thedialogue system should therefore be robust regard-ing ungrammatical utterances.7 Future workNext we intend to implement strategies for inter-ruption and resumption in the DICO dialogue sys-tem.
The strategies will then be evaluated throughuser tests where the participants will compare anapplication with these strategies with an applica-tion without them.
Cognitive workload will bemeasured as well as driving ability (for example,by using a Lane Change Task (Mattes, 2003)).
Theparticipants will also be interviewed in order tofind out which version of the system is more pleas-ant to use.ReferencesRobert Brostr?m, Johan Engstr?m, Anders Agnvall,and Gustav Markkula.
2006.
Towards the next gen-eration intelligent driver information system (idis):The volvo cars interaction manager concept.
In Pro-ceedings of the 2006 ITS World Congress.Staffan Larsson and Jessica Villing.
2007.
The dicoproject: A multimodal menu-based in-vehicle dia-logue system.
In H C Bunt and E C G Thijsse, edi-tors, Proceedings of the 7th International Workshopon Computational Semantics (IWCS-7), page 4.Anders Lindstr?m, Jessica Villing, Staffan Lars-son, Alexander Seward, Nina ?berg, and CeciliaHoltelius.
2008.
The effect of cognitive load ondisfluencies during in-vehicle spoken dialogue.
InProceedings of Interspeech 2008, page 4.Stefan Mattes.
2003.
The lane-change-task as a toolfor driver distraction evaluation.
In Proceedings ofIGfA.V L Neale, T A Dingus, S G Klauer, J Sudweeks, andM Goodman.
2005.
An overview of the 100-carnaturalistic study and findings.
In Proceedings ofthe 19th International Technical Conference on En-hanced Safety of Vehicles (ESV).W van Winsum, M Martens, and L Herland.
1999.
Theeffect of speech versus tactile driver support mes-sages on workload, driver behaviour and user ac-ceptance.
tno-report tm-99-c043.
Technical report,Soesterberg, Netherlands.Jessica Villing, Cecilia Holtelius, Staffan Larsson, An-ders Lindstr?m, Alexander Seward, and Nina ?berg.2008.
Interruption, resumption and domain switch-ing in in-vehicle dialogue.
In Proceedings of Go-TAL, 6th International Conference on Natural Lan-guage Processing, page 12.Jessica Villing.
2009.
In-vehicle dialogue man-agement - towards distinguishing between differenttypes of workload.
In Proceedings of SiMPE, FourthWorkshop on Speech in Mobile and Pervasive Envi-ronments, pages 14?21.Fan Yang and Peter A Heeman.
2009.
Context restora-tion in multi-tasking dialogue.
In IUI ?09: Proceed-ings of the 13th international conference on Intelli-gent user interfaces, pages 373?378, New York, NY,USA.
ACM.805
