Tutorial Abstracts of ACL 2010, page 6,Uppsala, Sweden, 11 July 2010. c?2010 Association for Computational LinguisticsSemantic Parsing: The Task, the State-of-the-Art and the FutureRohit J. KateDepartment of Computer ScienceThe University of Texas at AustinAustin, TX 78712, USArjkate@cs.utexas.eduYuk Wah WongGoogle Inc.Pittsburgh, PA 15213, USAywwong@google.com1 IntroductionSemantic parsing is the task of mapping naturallanguage sentences into complete formal mean-ing representations which a computer can exe-cute for some domain-specific application.
Thisis a challenging task and is critical for develop-ing computing systems that can understand andprocess natural language input, for example, acomputing system that answers natural languagequeries about a database, or a robot that takescommands in natural language.
While the im-portance of semantic parsing was realized a longtime ago, it is only in the past few years that thestate-of-the-art in semantic parsing has been sig-nificantly advanced with more accurate and ro-bust semantic parser learners that use a varietyof statistical learning methods.
Semantic parsershave also been extended to work beyond a singlesentence, for example, to use discourse contextsand to learn domain-specific language from per-ceptual contexts.
Some of the future research di-rections of semantic parsing with potentially largeimpacts include mapping entire natural languagedocuments into machine processable form to en-able automated reasoning about them and to con-vert natural language web pages into machine pro-cessable representations for the Semantic Web tosupport automated high-end web applications.This tutorial will introduce the semantic pars-ing task and will bring the audience up-to-datewith the current research and state-of-the-art in se-mantic parsing.
It will also provide insights aboutsemantic parsing and how it relates to and dif-fers from other natural language processing tasks.It will point out research challenges and somepromising future directions for semantic parsing.2 Content OverviewThe proposed tutorial on semantic parsing willstart with an introduction to the task, giving ex-amples of some application domains and meaningrepresentation languages.
It will also point out itsdistinctions from and relations to other NLP tasks.Next, it will talk in depth about various semanticparsers that have been built, starting with earlierhand-built systems to the current state-of-the-artstatistical semantic parser learners.
It will pointout the underlying commonalities and differencesbetween the learners.
The next section of the tuto-rial will talk about the recent advances in extend-ing semantic parsing to work beyond parsing a sin-gle sentence.
Finally, the tutorial will point outthe current research challenges and some promis-ing future directions for semantic parsing.3 Outline1.
Introduction to the task of semantic parsing(a) Definition of the task(b) Examples of application domains and meaningrepresentation languages(c) Distinctions from and relations to other NLPtasks2.
Semantic parsers(a) Earlier hand-built systems(b) Learning for semantic parsingi.
Semantic parsing learning taskii.
Non-statistical semantic parser learnersiii.
Statistical semantic parser learnersiv.
Exploiting syntax for semantic parsingv.
Various forms of supervision: semi-supervision, ambiguous supervision(c) Underlying commonality and differences be-tween different semantic parser learners3.
Semantic parsing beyond a sentence(a) Using discourse contexts for semantic parsing(b) Learning language from perceptual contexts4.
Research challenges and future directions(a) Machine reading of documents: Connecting withknowledge representation(b) Applying semantic parsing techniques to the Se-mantic Web(c) Future research directions5.
Conclusions6
