Proceedings of the ACL 2010 Conference Short Papers, pages 103?108,Uppsala, Sweden, 11-16 July 2010. c?2010 Association for Computational LinguisticsSemantics-Driven Shallow Parsing for Chinese Semantic Role LabelingWeiwei SunDepartment of Computational Linguistics, Saarland UniversityGerman Research Center for Artificial Intelligence (DFKI)D-66123, Saarbru?cken, Germanywsun@coli.uni-saarland.deAbstractOne deficiency of current shallow pars-ing based Semantic Role Labeling (SRL)methods is that syntactic chunks are toosmall to effectively group words.
To par-tially resolve this problem, we proposesemantics-driven shallow parsing, whichtakes into account both syntactic struc-tures and predicate-argument structures.We also introduce several new ?path?
fea-tures to improve shallow parsing basedSRL method.
Experiments indicate thatour new method obtains a significant im-provement over the best reported ChineseSRL result.1 IntroductionIn the last few years, there has been an increas-ing interest in Semantic Role Labeling (SRL) onseveral languages, which consists of recognizingarguments involved by predicates of a given sen-tence and labeling their semantic types.
Bothfull parsing based and shallow parsing based SRLmethods have been discussed for English and Chi-nese.
In Chinese SRL, shallow parsing basedmethods that cast SRL as the classification ofsyntactic chunks into semantic labels has gainedpromising results.
The performance reported in(Sun et al, 2009) outperforms the best publishedperformance of full parsing based SRL systems.Previously proposed shallow parsing takes intoaccount only syntactic information and basicchunks are usually too small to group words intoargument candidates.
This causes one main defi-ciency of Chinese SRL.
To partially resolve thisproblem, we propose a new shallow parsing.
Thenew chunk definition takes into account both syn-tactic structure and predicate-argument structuresof a given sentence.
Because of the semantic in-formation it contains, we call it semantics-drivenshallow parsing.
The key idea is to make basicchunks as large as possible but not overlap with ar-guments.
Additionally, we introduce several new?path?
features to express more structural infor-mation, which is important for SRL.We present encouraging SRL results on ChinesePropBank (CPB) data.
With semantics-drivenshallow parsing, our SRL system achieves 76.10F-measure, with gold segmentation and POS tag-ging.
The performance further achieves 76.46with the help of new ?path?
features.
These re-sults obtain significant improvements over the bestreported SRL performance (74.12) in the literature(Sun et al, 2009).2 Related WorkCPB is a project to add predicate-argument rela-tions to the syntactic trees of the Chinese Tree-Bank (CTB).
Similar to English PropBank, the ar-guments of a predicate are labeled with a contigu-ous sequence of integers, in the form of AN (N isa natural number); the adjuncts are annotated assuch with the label AM followed by a secondarytag that represents the semantic classification ofthe adjunct.
The assignment of argument labelsis illustrated in Figure 1, where the predicate is theverb ???/provide?
For example, the noun phrase????
?/the insurance company?
is labeled asA0, meaning that it is the proto-Agent of ???
?.Sun et al (2009) explore the Chinese SRL prob-lem on the basis of shallow syntactic informationat the level of phrase chunks.
They present a se-mantic chunking method to resolve SRL on basisof shallow parsing.
Their method casts SRL asthe classification of syntactic chunks with IOB2representation for semantic roles (i.e.
semantic103WORD: ??
??
?
?
??
??
??
??
?
?insurance company already for Sanxia Project provide insurance servicePOS: [NN NN] [AD] [P] [NR] [NN] [VV] [NN NN]SYN CH: [NP] [ADVP] [PP NP NP ] [VP] [NP]SEM CH: B-A0 B-AM-ADV B-A2 I-A2 I-A2 B-V B-A1The insurance company has provided insurance services for the Sanxia Project.Figure 1: An example from Chinese PropBank.chunks).
Two labeling strategies are presented: 1)directly tagging semantic chunks in one-stage, and2) identifying argument boundaries as a chunkingtask and labeling their semantic types as a clas-sification task.
On the basis of syntactic chunks,they define semantic chunks which do not overlapnor embed using IOB2 representation.
Syntacticchunks outside a chunk receive the tag O (Out-side).
For syntactic chunks forming a chunk oftype A*, the first chunk receives the B-A* tag (Be-gin), and the remaining ones receive the tag I-A*(Inside).
Then a SRL system can work directlyby using sequence tagging technique.
Shallowchunk definition presented in (Chen et al, 2006)is used in their experiments.
The definition of syn-tactic and semantic chunks is illustrated Figure 1.For example, ????
?/the insurance company?,consisting of two nouns, is a noun phrase; in thesyntactic chunking stage, its two components ????
and ????
should be labeled as B-NP andI-NP.
Because this phrase is the Agent of the pred-icate ??
?/provide?, it takes a semantic chunklabel B-A0.
In the semantic chunking stage, thisphrase should be labeled as B-A0.Their experiments on CPB indicate that accord-ing to current state-of-the-art of Chinese parsing,SRL systems on basis of full parsing do not per-form better than systems based on shallow parsing.They report the best SRL performance with goldsegmentation and POS tagging as inputs.
This isvery different from English SRL.
In English SRL,previous work shows that full parsing, both con-stituency parsing and dependency parsing, is nec-essary.Ding and Chang (2009) discuss semanticchunking methods without any parsing informa-tion.
Different from (Sun et al, 2009), theirmethod formulates SRL as the classification ofwords with semantic chunks.
Comparison of ex-perimental results in their work shows that parsingis necessary for Chinese SRL, and the semanticchunking methods on the basis of shallow parsingoutperform the ones without any parsing.Joint learning of syntactic and semantic struc-tures is another hot topic in dependency parsingresearch.
Some models have been well evalu-ated in CoNLL 2008 and 2009 shared tasks (Sur-deanu et al, 2008; Hajic?
et al, 2009).
TheCoNLL 2008/2009 shared tasks propose a unifieddependency-based formalism to model both syn-tactic dependencies and semantic roles for multi-ple languages.
Several joint parsing models arepresented in the shared tasks.
Our focus is differ-ent from the shared tasks.
In this paper, we hopeto find better syntactic representation for semanticrole labeling.3 Semantics-Driven Shallow Parsing3.1 MotivationThere are two main jobs of semantic chunking: 1)grouping words as argument candidate and 2) clas-sifying semantic types of possible arguments.
Pre-viously proposed shallow parsing only considerssyntactic information and basic chunks are usu-ally too small to effectively group words.
Thiscauses one main deficiency of semantic chunking.E.g.
the argument ?????
?/for the SanxiaProject?
consists of three chunks, each of whichonly consists of one word.
To rightly recognizethis A2, Semantic chunker should rightly predictthree chunk labels.
Small chunks also make theimportant ?path?
feature sparse, since there aremore chunks between a target chunk and the pred-icate in focus.
In this section, we introduce a newchunk definition to improve shallow parsing basedSRL, which takes both syntactic and predicate-argument structures into account.
The key ideais to make syntactic chunks as large as possiblefor semantic chunking.
The formal definition is asfollows.3.2 Chunk BracketingGiven a sentence s = w1, ..., wn, let c[i : j]denote a constituent that is made up of wordsbetween wi and wj (including wi and wj); letpv = {c[i : j]|c[i : j] is an argument of v}104WORD POS TARGET PROPOSITION CHUNK 1 CHUNK 2China ??
NR - (A0* * * * B-NP B-NP?Stax ??
NN - * * * * I-NP I-NP?Sdepartment ??
NN - *) * * * I-NP I-NP?Sstipulate ??
VV ??
(V*) * * * O O: ?
PU - * * * * O Oowing ??
VV ??
(A1* (V*) * (A0* O Otax payment ??
NN - * (A1*) * * B-NP B-NP?VPcompany ??
NN - * (A0*) * * B-NP B-NP?NPFunction Word ?
DEG - * * * * O Oleaders ???
NN - * * * *) B-NP B-NP?NPnot ?
AD - * * * (AM-ADV*) B-ADVP B-ADVP?VPcan ?
VV ?
* * (V*) * O Oleave the country ??
VV ??
*) * * (V*) B-VP B-VP?VPFigure 2: An example for definition of semantics-driven chunks with IOB2 representation.denote one predicate-argument structure where vis the predicate in focus.
Given a syntactic treeTs = {c[i : j]|c[i : j] is a constituent of s}, andits all argument structures Ps = {pv| v is a verbalpredicate in s}, there is one and only one chunkset C = {c[i : j]} s.t.1.
?c[i : j] ?
C, c[i : j] ?
Ts;2.
?c[i : j] ?
C, ?c[iv : jv] ?
?Ps, j < iv ori > jv or iv ?
i ?
j ?
jv;3.
?c[i : j] ?
C, the parent of c[i : j] does notsatisfy the condition 2.4.
?C?
satisfies above conditions, C?
?
C.The first condition guarantees that every chunkis a constituent.
The second condition means thatchunks do not overlap with arguments, and furtherguarantees that semantic chunking can recover allarguments with the last condition.
The third condi-tion makes new chunks as big as possible.
The lastone makes sure that C contains all sub-componentsof all arguments.
Figure 2 is an example to illus-trate our new chunk definition.
For example, ??
?/Chinese ?
?/tax ??/department?
is a con-stituent of current sentence, and is also an argu-ment of ???/stipulate?.
If we take it as a chunk,it does not conflict with any other arguments, soit is a reasonable syntactic chunk.
For the phrase??
?/owing ?
?/tax payment?, though it doesnot overlap with the first, third and fourth proposi-tions, it is bigger than the argument ????
(con-flicting with condition 2) while labeling the pred-icate ???
?, so it has to be separated into twochunks.
Note that the third condition also guar-antees the constituents in C does not overlap witheach other since each one is as large as possible.So we can still formulate our new shallow parsingas an ?IOB?
sequence labeling problem.3.3 Chunk TypeWe introduce two types of chunks.
The first issimply the phrase type, such as NP, PP, of cur-rent chunk.
The column CHUNK 1 illustratesthis kind of chunk type definition.
The second ismore complicated.
Inspired by (Klein and Man-ning, 2003), we split one phrase type into severalsubsymbols, which contain category informationof current constituent?s parent.
For example, anNP immediately dominated by a S, will be sub-stituted by NP?S.
This strategy severely increasesthe number of chunk types and make it hard totrain chunking models.
To shrink this number, welinguistically use a cluster of CTB phrasal types,which was introduced in (Sun and Sui, 2009).
Thecolumn CHUNK 2 illustrates this definition.
E.g.,NP?S implicitly represents Subject while NP?VPrepresents Object.3.4 New Path FeaturesThe Path feature is defined as a chain of basephrases between the token and the predicate.
Atboth ends, the chain is terminated with the POStags of the predicate and the headword of the to-ken.
For example, the path feature of ??????
in Figure 1 is ??
?-ADVP-PP-NP-NP-VV?.Among all features, the ?path?
feature containsmore structural information, which is very impor-tant for SRL.
To better capture structural infor-mation, we introduce several new ?path?
features.They include:?
NP|PP|VP path: only syntactic chunksthat takes tag NP, PP or VP are kept.105When labeling the predicate ??
?/leave thecountry?
in Figure 2, this feature of ??????
?/Chinese tax departments?
isNP+NP+NP+NP+VP.?
V|?
path: a sequential container of POS tagsof verbal words and ???
; This feature of ????????
is NP+VV+VV+?+VV+VP.?
O2POS path: if a word occupies a chunklabel O, use its POS in the path fea-ture.
This feature of ????????
isNP+VV+PU+VV+NP+NP+DEG+ADVP+VV+VP.4 Experiments and Analysis4.1 Experimental SettingExperiments in previous work are mainly basedon CPB 1.0 and CTB 5.0.
We use CoNLL-2005shared task software to process CPB and CTB.
Tofacilitate comparison with previous work, we usethe same data setting with (Xue, 2008).
Nearlyall previous research on Chinese SRL evalua-tion use this setting, also including (Ding andChang, 2008, 2009; Sun et al, 2009; Sun, 2010).The data is divided into three parts: files fromchtb 081 to chtb 899 are used as training set; filesfrom chtb 041 to chtb 080 as development set;files from chtb 001 to chtb 040, and chtb 900 tochtb 931 as test set.
Both syntactic chunkers andsemantic chunkers are trained and evaluated by us-ing the same data set.
By using CPB and CTB, wecan extract gold standard semantics-driven shal-low chunks according to our definition.
We usethis kind of gold chunks automatically generatedfrom training data to train syntactic chunkers.For both syntactic and semantic chunking, weused conditional random field model.
Crfsgd1, isused for experiments.
Crfsgd provides a featuretemplate that defines a set of strong word and POSfeatures to do syntactic chunking.
We use thisfeature template to resolve shallow parsing.
Forsemantic chunking, we implement a similar one-stage shallow parsing based SRL system describedin (Sun et al, 2009).
There are two differences be-tween our system and Sun et al?s system.
First,our system uses Start/End method to represent se-mantic chunks (Kudo and Matsumoto, 2001).
Sec-ond, word formation features are not used.Test P(%) R(%) F?=1(Chen et al, 2006) 93.51 92.81 93.16Overall (C1) 91.66 89.13 90.38Bracketing (C1) 92.31 89.72 91.00Overall (C2) 88.77 86.71 87.73Bracketing (C2) 92.71 90.55 91.62Table 1: Shallow parsing performance.4.2 Syntactic Chunking PerformanceTable 1 shows the performance of shallow syntac-tic parsing.
Line Chen et al, 2006 is the chunk-ing performance evaluated on syntactic chunk def-inition proposed in (Chen et al, 2006).
The sec-ond and third blocks present the chunking perfor-mance with new semantics-driven shallow pars-ing.
The second block shows the overall perfor-mance when the first kind of chunks type is used,while the last block shows the performance whenthe more complex chunk type definition is used.For the semantic-driven parsing experiments, weadd the path from current word to the first verb be-fore or after as two new features.
Line Bracketingevaluates the word grouping ability of these twokinds of chunks.
In other words, detailed phrasetypes are not considered.
Because the two newchunk definitions use the same chunk boundaries,the fourth and sixth lines are comparable.
Thereis a clear decrease between the traditional shallowparsing (Chen et al, 2006) and ours.
We think onemain reason is that syntactic chunks in our newdefinition are larger than the traditional ones.
Aninteresting phenomenon is that though the secondkind of chunk type definition increases the com-plexity of the parsing job, it achieves better brack-eting performance.4.3 SRL PerformanceTable 2 summarizes the SRL performance.
LineSun et al, 2009 is the SRL performance reportedin (Sun et al, 2009).
To the author?s knowledge,this is the best published SRL result in the liter-ature.
Line SRL (Chen et al, 2006) is the SRLperformance of our system.
These two systemsare both evaluated by using syntactic chunking de-fined in (Chen et al, 2006).
From the first blockwe can see that our semantic chunking systemreaches the state-of-the-art.
The second and thirdblocks in Table 2 present the performance with1http://leon.bottou.org/projects/sgd106new shallow parsing.
Line SRL (C1) and SRL (C2)show the overall performances with the first andsecond chunk definition.
The lines following arethe SRL performance when new ?path?
featuresare added.
We can see that new ?path?
featuresare useful for semantic chunking.Test P(%) R(%) F?=1(Sun et al, 2009) 79.25 69.61 74.12SRL [(Chen et al, 2006)] 80.87 68.74 74.31SRL [C1] 80.23 71.00 75.33+ NP|PP|VP path 80.25 71.19 75.45+ V|?
path 80.78 71.67 75.96+ O2POS path 80.44 71.59 75.76+ All new path 80.73 72.08 76.16SRL [C2] 80.87 71.86 76.10+ All new path 81.03 72.38 76.46Table 2: SRL performance on the test data.
Itemsin the first column SRL [(Chen et al, 2006)], SRL[C1] and SRL [C2] respetively denote the SRLsystems based on shallow parsing defined in (Chenet al, 2006) and Section 3.5 ConclusionIn this paper we propose a new syntactic shal-low parsing for Chinese SRL.
The new chunkdefinition contains both syntactic structure andpredicate-argument structure information.
To im-prove SRL, we also introduce several new ?path?features.
Experimental results show that our newchunk definition is more suitable for Chinese SRL.It is still an open question what kinds of syntacticinformation is most important for Chinese SRL.We suggest that our attempt at semantics-drivenshallow parsing is a possible way to better exploitthis problem.AcknowledgmentsThe author is funded both by German AcademicExchange Service (DAAD) and German ResearchCenter for Artificial Intelligence (DFKI).The author would like to thank the anonymousreviewers for their helpful comments.ReferencesWenliang Chen, Yujie Zhang, and Hitoshi Isahara.2006.
An empirical study of Chinese chunking.In Proceedings of the COLING/ACL 2006 MainConference Poster Sessions, pages 97?104.
As-sociation for Computational Linguistics, Syd-ney, Australia.Weiwei Ding and Baobao Chang.
2008.
Improv-ing Chinese semantic role classification with hi-erarchical feature selection strategy.
In Pro-ceedings of the EMNLP 2008, pages 324?333.
Association for Computational Linguis-tics, Honolulu, Hawaii.Weiwei Ding and Baobao Chang.
2009.
Fast se-mantic role labeling for Chinese based on se-mantic chunking.
In ICCPOL ?09: Proceed-ings of the 22nd International Conference onComputer Processing of Oriental Languages.Language Technology for the Knowledge-based Economy, pages 79?90.
Springer-Verlag,Berlin, Heidelberg.Jan Hajic?, Massimiliano Ciaramita, Richard Jo-hansson, Daisuke Kawahara, Maria Anto`niaMart?
?, Llu?
?s Ma`rquez, Adam Meyers, JoakimNivre, Sebastian Pado?, Jan S?te?pa?nek, PavelStran?a?k, Mihai Surdeanu, Nianwen Xue, andYi Zhang.
2009.
The CoNLL-2009 shared task:Syntactic and semantic dependencies in multi-ple languages.
In Proceedings of the 13th Con-ference on Computational Natural LanguageLearning (CoNLL-2009), June 4-5.
Boulder,Colorado, USA.Dan Klein and Christopher D. Manning.
2003.
Ac-curate unlexicalized parsing.
In Proceedings ofthe 41st Annual Meeting of the Association forComputational Linguistics, pages 423?430.
As-sociation for Computational Linguistics, Sap-poro, Japan.Taku Kudo and Yuji Matsumoto.
2001.
Chunkingwith support vector machines.
In NAACL ?01:Second meeting of the North American Chapterof the Association for Computational Linguis-tics on Language technologies 2001, pages 1?8.
Association for Computational Linguistics,Morristown, NJ, USA.Weiwei Sun.
2010.
Improving Chinese semanticrole labeling with rich features.
In Proceedingsof the ACL 2010.Weiwei Sun and Zhifang Sui.
2009.
Chinese func-tion tag labeling.
In Proceedings of the 23rdPacific Asia Conference on Language, Informa-tion and Computation.
Hong Kong.Weiwei Sun, Zhifang Sui, Meng Wang, and XinWang.
2009.
Chinese semantic role labeling107with shallow parsing.
In Proceedings of the2009 Conference on Empirical Methods in Nat-ural Language Processing, pages 1475?1483.Association for Computational Linguistics, Sin-gapore.Mihai Surdeanu, Richard Johansson, Adam Mey-ers, Llu?
?s Ma`rquez, and Joakim Nivre.
2008.The conll 2008 shared task on joint parsing ofsyntactic and semantic dependencies.
In CoNLL2008: Proceedings of the Twelfth Conferenceon Computational Natural Language Learning,pages 159?177.
Coling 2008 Organizing Com-mittee, Manchester, England.Nianwen Xue.
2008.
Labeling Chinese predi-cates with semantic roles.
Comput.
Linguist.,34(2):225?255.108
