Proceedings of the 48th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics, pages 1328?1336,Uppsala, Sweden, 11-16 July 2010. c?2010 Association for Computational LinguisticsOn Learning Subtypes of the Part-Whole Relation: Do Not Mix yourSeedsAshwin IttooUniversity of GroningenGroningen, The Netherlandsr.a.ittoo@rug.nlGosse BoumaUniversity of GroningenGroningen, The Netherlandsg.bouma@rug.nlAbstractAn important relation in information ex-traction is the part-whole relation.
On-tological studies mention several types ofthis relation.
In this paper, we showthat the traditional practice of initializ-ing minimally-supervised algorithms witha single set that mixes seeds of differenttypes fails to capture the wide variety ofpart-whole patterns and tuples.
The re-sults obtained with mixed seeds ultimatelyconverge to one of the part-whole relationtypes.
We also demonstrate that all thedifferent types of part-whole relations canstill be discovered, regardless of the typecharacterized by the initializing seeds.
Weperformed our experiments with a state-of-the-art information extraction algorithm.1 IntroductionA fundamental semantic relation in many dis-ciplines such as linguistics, cognitive science,and conceptual modelling is the part-whole rela-tion, which exists between parts and the wholesthey compise (Winston et al, 1987; Gerstl andPribbenow, 1995).
Different types of part-wholerelations, classified in various taxonomies, arementioned in literature (Winston et al, 1987;Odell, 1994; Gerstl and Pribbenow, 1995; Keetand Artale, 2008).
The taxonomy of Keet and Ar-tale (2008), for instance, distinguishes part-wholerelations based on their transitivity, and on thesemantic classes of entities they sub-categorize.Part-whole relations are also crucial for many in-formation extraction (IE) tasks (Girju et al, 2006).Annotated corpora and semantic dictionaries usedin IE, such as the ACE corpus1 and WordNet (Fell-baum, 1998), include examples of part-whole re-lations.
Also, previous relation extraction work,1http://projects.ldc.upenn.edu/ace/such as Berland and Charniak (1999) and Girju etal.
(2006), have specifically targeted the discoveryof part-whole relations from text.
Furthermore,part-whole relations are de-facto benchmarks forevaluating the performance of general relation ex-traction systems (Pantel and Pennacchiotti, 2006;Beamer et al, 2008; Pyysalo et al, 2009).
How-ever, these relation extraction efforts have over-looked the ontological distinctions between thedifferent types of part-whole relations.
They as-sume the existence of a single relation, subsumingthe different part-whole relation types.In this paper, we show that enforcing the onto-logical distinctions between the different types ofpart-whole relations enable information extractionsystems to capture a wider variety of both genericand specialised part-whole lexico-syntactic pat-terns and tuples.
Specifically, we address 3 majorquestions.1.
Is information extraction (IE) harder whenlearning the individual types of part-wholerelations?
That is, we determine whether theperformance of state-of-the-art IE systems inlearning the individual part-whole relationtypes increases (due to more coherency inthe relations?
linguistic realizations) or drops(due to fewer examples), compared to the tra-ditional practice of considering a single part-whole relation.2.
Are the patterns and tuples discovered whenfocusing on a specific part-whole relationtype confined to that particular type?
Thatis, we investgate whether IE systems discoverexamples representative of the different typesby targetting one particular part-whole rela-tion type.3.
Are more distinct examples discovered whenIE systems learn the individual part-whole re-lation types?
That is, we determine whether1328a wider variety of unique patterns and tuplesare extracted when IE systems target the dif-ferent types of part-whole relations instead ofconsidering a single part-whole relation thatsubsumes all the different types.To answer these questions, we bootstrappeda minimally-supervised relation extraction algo-rithm, based on Espresso (Pantel and Pennac-chiotti, 2006), with different seed-sets for the vari-ous types of part-whole relations, and analyzed theharvested tuples and patterns.2 Previous WorkInvestigations on the part-whole relations spanacross many disciplines, such as conceptual mod-eling (Artale et al, 1996; Keet, 2006; Keet andArtale, 2008), which focus on the ontologicalaspects, and linguistics and cognitive sciences,which focus on natural language semantics.
Sev-eral linguistically-motivated taxonomies (Odell,1994; Gerstl and Pribbenow, 1995), based on thework of Winston et al (1987), have been proposedto clarify the semantics of the different part-wholerelations types across these various disciplines.Keet and Artale (2008) developed a formal taxon-omy, distinguishing transitive mereological part-whole relations from intransitive meronymic ones.Meronymic relations identified are: 1) member-of, between a physical object (or role) and an ag-gregation, e.g.
player-team, 2) constituted-of, be-tween a physical object and an amount of mat-ter e.g.
clay-statue, 3) sub-quantity-of, betweenamounts of matter or units, e.g.
oxygen-wateror m-km, and 4)participates-in, between an entityand a process e.g.
enzyme-reaction.
Mereologi-cal relations are: 1)involved-in, between a phaseand a process, e.g.
chewing-eating, 2) located-in, between an entity and its 2-dimensional re-gion, e.g.
city-region, 3)contained-in, betweenan entity and its 3-dimensional region, e.g.tool-trunk, and 4)structural part-of, between integralsand their (functional) components, e.g.
engine-car.
This taxonomy further discriminates betweenpart-whole relation types by enforcing semanticalselectional restrictions, in the form of DOLCE on-tology (Gangemi et al, 2002) classes, on their en-tities.In NLP, information extraction (IE) techniques,for discovering part-whole relations from text havealso been developed.
Berland and Charniak (1999)use manually-crafted patterns, similar to Hearst(1992), and on initial ?seeds?
denoting ?whole?objects (e.g.
building) to harvest possible ?part?objects (e.g.
room) from the North AmericalNews Corpus (NANC) of 1 million words.
Theyrank their results with measures like log-likelihood(Dunning, 1993), and report a maximum accuracyof 70% over their top-20 results.
In the super-vised approaches in Girju et al (2003) and Girjuet al (2006), lexical patterns expressing part-whole relations between WordNet concept pairsare manually extracted from 20,000 sentences ofthe L.A Times and SemCor corpora (Miller etal., 1993), and used to generate a training cor-pus, with manually-annotated positive and nega-tive examples of part-whole relations.
Classifica-tion rules, induced over the training data, achievea precision of 80.95% and recall of 75.91% in pre-dicting whether an unseen pattern encode a part-whole relation.
Van Hage et al (2006) acquire503 part-whole pairs from dedicated thesauri (e.g.AGROVOC2) to learn 91 reliable part-whole pat-terns.
They substituted the patterns?
?part?
ar-guments with known entities to formulate web-search queries.
Corresponding ?whole?
entitieswere then discovered from documents in the queryresults with a precision of 74%.
The part-wholerelation is also a benchmark to evaluate the perfor-mance of general information extraction systems.The Espresso algorithm (Pantel and Pennacchiotti,2006) achieves a precision of 80% in learning part-whole relations from the Acquaint (TREC-9) cor-pus of nearly 6M words.
Despite the reasonableperformance of the above IE systems in discov-ering part-whole relations, they overlook the on-tological distinctions between the different rela-tion types.
For example, Girju et al (2003) andGirju et al (2006) assume a single part-whole re-lation, encompassing all the different types men-tioned in the taxonomy of Winston et al (1987).Similarly, the minimally-supervised Espresso al-gorithm (Pantel and Pennacchiotti, 2006) is ini-tialized with a single set that mixes seeds ofheterogeneous types, such as leader-panel andoxygen-water, which respectively correspond tothe member-of and sub-quantity-of relations in thetaxonomy of Keet and Artale (2008).2http://aims.fao.org/website/AGROVOC-Thesaurus/sub13293 MethodologyOur aim is to compare the relations harvestedwhen a minimally-supervised IE algorithm is ini-tialized with separate sets of seeds for each type ofpart-whole relation, and when it is initialized fol-lowing the traditional practice of a single set thatmixes seeds of the different types.
To distinguishbetween types of part-whole relations, we committo the taxonomy of Keet and Artale (2008) (Keet?staxonomy), which uses sound ontological for-malisms to unambiguously discrimate the relationtypes.
Also, this taxonomy classifies the variouspart-whole relations introduced in literature, in-cluding ontologically-motivated mereological re-lations and linguistically-motivated meronymicones.
We adopt a 3-step approach to address ourquestions from section 1.1.
Define prototypical seeds (part-whole tuples)as follows:?
(Separate) sets of seeds for each type ofpart-whole relation in Keet?s taxonomy.?
A single set that mixes seeds denot-ing all the different part-whole relationstypes.2.
Part-whole relations extraction from a corpusby initializing a minimally-supervised IE al-gorithm with the seed-sets3.
Evaluation of the harvested relations to de-termine performance gain/loss, types of part-whole relations extracted, and distinct andunique patterns and tuples discovered.The corpora and IE algorithm we used, and theseed-sets construction are described below.
Re-sults are presented in the next section.3.1 CorporaWe used the English and Dutch Wikipedia textssince their broad-coverage and size ensures thatthey include sufficient lexical realizations of thedifferent types of part-whole relations.
Wikipediahas also been targeted by recent IE efforts (Nguyenet al, 2007; Wu and Weld, 2007).
However, whilethey exploited the structured features (e.g.
in-foboxes), we only consider the unstructured texts.The English corpus size is approximately 470Mwords (?
80% of the August 2007 dump), whilefor Dutch, we use the full text collection (Febru-ary 2008 dump) of approximately 110M words.We parsed the English and Dutch corpora respec-tively with the Stanford3 (Klein and Manning,2003) and the Alpino4 (van Noord, 2006) parsers,and formalized the relations between terms (enti-ties) as dependency paths.
A dependency path isthe shortest path of lexico-syntactic elements, i.e.shortest lexico-syntactic pattern, connecting enti-ties (proper and common nouns) in their parse-trees.
Such a formalization has been successfullyemployed in previous IE tasks (see Stevenson andGreenwood (2009) for an overview).
Comparedto traditional surface-pattern representations, usedby Pantel and Pennacchiotti (2006), dependencypaths abstract from surface texts to capture longrange dependencies between terms.
They also al-leviate the manual authoring of large numbers ofsurface patterns.
In our formalization, we substi-tute entities in the dependency paths with genericplaceholders PART and WHOLE.
Below, we showtwo dependency paths (1-b) and (2-b), respectivelyderived from English and Dutch Wikipedia sen-tences (1-a) and (2-a), and denoting the relationsbetween sample-song, and alkalo??de-plant.
(1) a.
The song ?Mao Tse Tung Said?
byAlabama 3 contains samples of aspeech by Jim Jonesb.
WHOLE+nsubj?
contains?
dobj+PART(2) a. Alle delen van de planten bevatten al-kalo?
?den en zijn daarmee giftig (Allparts of the plants contain alkaloidsand therefore are poisonous)b. WHOLE+obj1+van+mod+deel+su ?bevat?
obj1+PARTIn our experiments, we only consider those en-tity pairs (tuples), patterns, and co-occuring pairs-patterns with a minimum frequency of 10 in theEnglish corpus, and 5 in the Dutch corpus.
Statis-tics on the number of tuples and patterns preservedafter applying the frequency cut-off are given inTable 1.3.2 Information Extraction AlgorithmAs IE algorithm for extracting part-whole rela-tions from our texts, we relied on Espresso, aminimally-supervised algorithm, as described byPantel and Pennacchiotti (2006).
They show3http://nlp.stanford.edu/software/lex-parser.shtml4http://www.let.rug.nl/?vannoord/alp/Alpino1330English Dutchwords 470.0 110.0pairs 328.0 28.8unique pairs 6.7 1.4patterns 238.0 54.0unique patterns 2.0 0.9Table 1: Corpus Statistics in millionsthat the algorithm achieves state-of-the-art perfor-mance when initialized with relatively small seed-sets over the Acquaint corpus (?
6M words).
Re-call is improved with web search queries as addi-tional source of information.Espresso extracts surface patterns connectingthe seeds (tuples) in a corpus.
The reliability ofa pattern p, r(p), given a set of input tuples I , iscomputed using (3), as its average strength of as-sociation with each tuple,i, weighted by each tu-ple?s reliability, r?(i).
(3) rpi(p) =?i?I(pmi(i,p)maxpmi?r?
(i))|I|In this equation, pmi(i, p) is the pointwise mutualinformation score (Church and Hanks, 1990) be-tween a pattern, p (e.g.
consist-of), and a tuple,i (e.g.
engine-car), and maxpmi is the maximumPMI score between all patterns and tuples.
The re-liability of the initializing seeds is set to 1.The top-k most reliable patterns are selected tofind new tuples.
The reliability of each tuple i,r?
(i) is computed according to (4), where P is theset of harvested patterns.
The top-m most reliabletuples are used to infer new patterns.
(4) r?
(i) =?i?I(pmi(i,p)maxpmi?rpi(p))|P |The recursive discovery of patterns from tuplesand vice-versa is repeated until a threshold num-ber of patterns and/or tuples have been extracted.In our implementation, we maintain the core of theoriginal Espresso algorithm, which pertains to es-timating the reliability of patterns and tuples.Pantel and Pennacchiotti (2006) mention thattheir method is independent of the way patternsare formulated.
Thus, instead of relying on surfacepatterns, we use dependency paths (as describedabove).
Another difference is that while Pantel andPennacchiotti (2006) complement their small cor-pus with documents retrieved from the web, weonly rely on patterns extracted from our (muchlarger) corpora.
Finally, we did not apply the dis-counting factor suggested in Pantel and Pennac-chiotti (2006) to correct for the fact that PMI over-estimates the importance of low-frequency events.Instead, as explained above, we applied a generalfrequency cut-off.53.3 Seed SelectionInitially,we selected seeds from WordNet (Fell-baum, 1998) (for English) and EuroWordNet(Vossen, 1998) (for Dutch) to initialize the IE al-gorithm.
However, we found that these pairs,such as acinos-mother of thyme or radarscherm-radarapparatuur (radar screen - radar equipment,hardly co-occured with reasonable frequency inWikipedia sentences, hindering pattern extraction.We therefore adopted the following strategy.We searched our corpora for archetypal pat-terns, e.g.
contain , which characterize all the dif-ferent types of part-whole relations.
The tuplessub-categorized by these patterns in the Englishtexts were automatically6 typed to appropriateDOLCE ontology7 classes, corresponding to thoseemployed by Keet and Artale for constraining theentity pairs participating in different types of part-whole relations.
The types of part-whole relationsinstantiated by the tuples could then be determinedbased on their ontological classes.
Separate sets of20 tuples, with each set corresponding to a specificrelation type in the taxonomy of Keet and Artale(Keet?s taxonomy), were then created.
For exam-ple, the English Wikipedia tuple t1 =actor-castwas used as a seed to discover member-of part-whole relations since both its elements were typedto the SOCIAL OBJECT class of the DOLCE ontol-ogy, and according to Keet?s taxonomy, they in-stantiate a member-of relation.
Seeds for extract-ing relations from the Dutch corpus were definedin a similar way, except that we manually deter-mined their ontological classes based on the classglossary of DOLCE.Below, we only report on the member-of andsub-quantity-of meronymic relations, and on thelocated-in, contained-in and structural part-ofmereological relations.
We were unable to findsufficient seeds for the constituted-of meronymic5We experimented with the suggested discounting factorfor PMI, but were not able to improve over the accuracy scoresreported later.6Using the Java-OWL API, from http://protege.stanford.edu/plugins/owl/api/7OWL Version 0.72, downloaded from http://www.loa-cnr.it/DOLCE.html/1331Lg Part Whole # TypeEN grave church 155 containNL beeld kerk 120 contain(statue) (church)EN city region 3735 locatedNL abdij gemeente 36 located(abbey) (community)EN actor cast 432 memberNL club voetbal bond 178 member(club) (soccer union)EN engine car 3509 structuralNL geheugen computer 14 structural(memory) (computer)EN alcohol wine 260 subquantNL alcohol bier 28 subquant(alcohol) (beer)Table 2: Seeds used for learning part-whole rela-tions (contained-in, located-in, member-of, struc-tural part-of, sub-quantity-of).relations (e.g.
clay-statue).
Also, we did not ex-periment with the participates-in and involved-inrelations since their lexical realizations in our cor-pora are sparse, and they contain at least one ver-bal argument, whereas we only targeted patternsconnecting nomimals.
Sample seeds, their corpusfrequency, and the part-whole relation type theyinstantiate from the English (EN) and Dutch (NL)corpora are illustrated in Table 2.
Besides thefive specialized seed-sets of 20 prototypical tuplesfor the aforementioned relations, we also defineda general set of mixed seeds, which combines fourseeds from each of the specialized sets.4 Experiments and EvaluationWe initialized our IE algorithm with the seed-setsto extract part-whole relations from our corpora.The same parameters as Pantel and Pennacchiotti(2006) were used.
That is, the 10 most reliablepatterns inferred from the initial seeds are boot-strapped to induce 100 part-whole tuples.
In eachsubsequent iteration, we learn one additional pat-tern and 100 additional tuples.
We evaluated ourresults after 5 iterations since the performance inlater iterations was almost constant.
The resultsare discussed next.meronomic mereologicalmemb subq cont struc locat genEN 0.67 0.74 0.70 0.82 0.75 0.80NL 0.68 0.60 0.60 0.60 0.70 0.71Table 3: Precision for seed-sets representing spe-cific types of part-whole relations (member-of,sub-quantity-of, contained-in, structural part-ofand located-in), and for the general set composedof all types.4.1 Precision of Extracted RelationsTwo human judges manually evaluated the tuplesextracted from the English and Dutch corpora perseed-set in each iteration of our algorithm.
Tuplesthat unambiguously instantiated part-whole rela-tions were considered true positives.
Those thatdid not were considered false positives.
Ambigu-ous tuples were discarded.
The precision of thetuples discovered by the different seed-sets in thelast iteration of our algorithm are in Table 3.These results reveal that the precision of har-vested tuples varies depending on the part-wholerelation type that the initializing seeds denote.Mereological seeds (cont, struct, locat sets) out-performed their meronymic counterparts (memb,subq) in extracting relations with higher precisionfrom the English texts.
This could be attributed totheir formal ontological grounding, making themless ambiguous than the linguistically-motivatedmeronymic relations (Keet, 2006; Keet and Ar-tale, 2008).
The precision variations were less dis-cernible for tuples extracted from the Dutch cor-pus, although the best precision was still achievedwith mereological located-in seeds.
We also no-ticed that the precision of tuples extracted fromboth the English and Dutch corpora by the gen-eral set of mixed seeds was as high as the max-imum precision obtained by the individual setsof specialized seeds over these two corpora, i.e.0.80 (general seeds) vs. 0.82 (structural part-of seeds) for English, and 0.71 (general seeds)vs. 0.70 (located-in seeds) for Dutch.
Basedon these findings, we address our first question,and conclude that 1) the type of relation instan-tiated by the initializing seeds affects the perfor-mance of IE algorithms, with mereological seedsbeing in general more fertile than their meronymiccounterparts, and generating higher-precision tu-ples; 2) the precision achieved when initializingIE algorithms with a general set, which mixes1332seeds of heterogeneous part-whole relation types,is comparable to the best results obtained with in-dividual sets of specialized seeds, denoting spe-cific part-whole relations.
An evaluation of thepatterns and tuples extracted indicated consider-able precision drop between successive iterationsof our algorithm.
This appears to be due to se-mantic drift (McIntosh and Curran, 2009), wherehighly-ambiguous patterns promote incorrect tu-ples , which in turn, compound the precision loss.4.2 Types of Extracted RelationsInitializing our algorithm with seeds of a particulartype always led to the discovery of tuples charac-terizing other types of part-whole relations in theEnglish corpus.
This can be explained by proto-typical patterns, e.g.
?include?, generated regard-less of the seeds?
types, and which are highy cor-related with, and hence, trigger tuples denotingother part-whole relation types.
An almost sim-ilar observation was made for the Dutch corpus,except that tuples instantiating the member-of re-lation could only be learnt using initial seeds ofthat particular type (i.e.
member-of).
Upon in-specting our results, it was found that this phe-nomenon was due to the distinct and specific pat-terns, such as ?treedt toe tot?
(?become memberof?
), which linguistically realize the member-of re-lations in the Dutch corpus.
Thus, initializing ourIE algorithm with seeds that instantiate relationsother than member-of fails to detect these uniquepatterns, and fails to subsequently discover part-whole tuples describing the member-of relations.Our findings are illustrated in Table 4, where eachcell lists a tuple of a particular type (column),which was harvested from seeds of a given type(row).
These results answer our second question.4.3 Distinct Patterns and TuplesWe address our third question by comparing theoutput of our algorithm to determine whether theresults obtained by initializing with the individualspecialized seeds were (dis)similar and/or distinct.Each result set consisted of maximally 520 tuples(including 20 initializing seeds) and 15 lexico-syntactic patterns, obtained after five iterations.Tuples extracted from the English corpus usingthe member-of and contained-in seed-sets exhib-ited a high degree of similarity, with 465 com-mon tuples discovered by both sets.
These iden-tical tuples were also assigned the same ranks (re-liability) in the results generated by the member-of and contained-in seeds, with a Spearman rankcorrelation of 0.82 between their respective out-puts.
This convergence was also reflected inthe fact that the member-of and contained-inseeds generated around 80% of common pat-terns.
These patterns were mostly prototypi-cal ones indicative of part-whole relations, suchas WHOLE+nsubj?
include?
dobj+PART (?in-clude?)
and their cognates involving passive formsand relative clauses.
However, the specializedseeds also generated distinct patterns, like ?joinedas?
and ?released with?
for the member-of andcontained-in seeds respectively.The most distinct tuples and patterns were har-vested with the sub-quantity-of, structural part-of,and located-in seeds.
Negative Spearman corre-lation scores were obtained when comparing theresults of these three sets among themselves, andwith the results of the member-of and contained-in seeds, indicating insignificant similarity andoverlap.
Examining the patterns harvested by thesub-quantity-of, structural part-of, and located-inseeds revealed a high prominence of specializedand unique patterns, which specifically character-ize these relations.
Examples of such patterns in-clude ?made with?, ?released with?
and ?foundin?, which lexically realize the sub-quantity-of,structural part-of, and located-in relations respec-tively.For the Dutch corpus, the seeds that generatedthe most similar tuples were those correspond-ing to the sub-quantity-of, contained-in, and struc-tural part-of relations, with 490 common tuplesdiscovered, and a Spearman rank correlation in therange of 0.89-0.93 between their respective out-puts.
As expected, these seeds also led to the dis-covery of a substantial number of common andprototypical part-whole patterns.
Examples in-clude ?bevat?
(?contain?
), ?omvat?
(?comprise?
),and their variants.
The most distinct results wereharvested by the located-in and member-of seeds,with negative Spearman correlation scores be-tween the output tuples indicating hardly any over-lap.
We also found out that the patterns harvestedby the located-in and member-of seeds character-istically pertained to these relations.
Example ofsuch patterns include ?ligt in?
(?lie in?
), ?is gele-gen in?
(?is located in?
), and ?treedt toe tot?
(?be-come member of?
), respectively describing thelocated-in and member-of relations.Thus, we observed that 1) tuples harvested from1333meronomic mereologicalTuples?
member subquant contained struct locatedSeeds?EN member ship-convoy alcohol-wine card-deck proton-nucleus lake-parksubquant aircraft-fleet moisture-soil building-complex engine-car commune-cantoncontained aircraft-fleet alohol-wine relic-church base-spacecraft campus-citystructural brother-family mineral-bone library-building inlay-fingerboard hamlet-townlocated performer-cast alcohol-blood artifact-museum chassis-car city-shoreNL member sporter-ploeg helium-atmosfeer stalagmieten-grot shirt-tenue boerderij-dorp(athlete-team) (helium-atmosphere) (stalagnites-cave) (shirt-outfit) (farm-village)subquant ?
vet-kaas pijp orgel-kerk kam-gitaar paleis-stad(fat-cheese) (pipe-organ-church) (bridge-guitar) (palace-city)contained ?
tannine-wijn kamer-toren atoom-molecule paleis-stad(tannine-wine) (room-tower) (atom-molecule) (palace-city)structural ?
kinine-tonic beeld-kerk wervel-ruggengraat paleis-stad(quinine-tonic) statue-church) (vertebra-backbone) (palace-city)located ?
?
kunst werk-kathedraal poort-muur metro station-wijk(work of art-cathedral) (gate-wall) (metro station-quarter)Table 4: Sample tuples found per relation type.both the English and Dutch corpora by seeds in-stantiating a single particular type of part-wholerelation highly correlated with tuples discoveredby at least one other type of seeds (member-ofand contained-in for English, and sub-quantity-of, contained-in and structural part-of for Dutch);2) some part-whole relations are manifested by awide variety of specialized patterns (sub-quantity-of, structural part-of, and located-in for English,and located-in and member-of for Dutch).Finally, instead of a single set that mixes seedsof different types, we created five such generalsets by picking four different seeds from each ofthe specialized sets, and used them to initialize ouralgorithm.
When examining the results of each ofthe five general sets, we found out that they wereunstable, and always correlated with the output ofa different specialized set.Based on these findings, we believe that the tra-ditional practice of initializing IE algorithms withgeneral sets that mix seeds denoting different part-whole relation types leads to inherently unstableresults.
As we have shown, the relations extractedby combining seeds of heterogeneous types almostalways converge to one specific part-whole rela-tion type, which cannot be conclusively predicted.Furthermore, general seeds are unable to capturethe specific and distinct patterns that lexically re-alize the individual types of part-whole relations.5 ConclusionsIn this paper, we have investigated the effect ofontologically-motivated distinctions in part-wholerelations on IE systems that learn instances ofthese relations from text.We have shown that learning from specializedseeds-sets, denoting specific types of the part-whole relations, results in precision that is as highas or higher than the precision achieved with ageneral set that mixes seeds of different types.By comparing the outputs generated by differentseed-sets, we observed that the tuples learnt withseeds denoting a specific part-whole relation typeare not confined to that particular type.
In mostcase, we are still able to discover tuples acrossall the different types of part-whole relations, re-gardless of the type instantiated by the initializingseeds.
Most importantly, we demonstrated that IEalgorithms initialized with general sets of mixedseeds harvest results that tend to converge towardsa specific type of part-whole relation.
Conversely,when starting with seeds representing a specifictype, it is likely to discover tuples and patternsthat are completely distinct from those found bya mixed seed-set.Our results also illustrate that the outputs of IEalgorithms are heavily influenced by the initializ-ing seeds, concurring with the findings of McIn-tosh and Curran (2009).
We believe that our re-sults show a drastic form of this phenomenon:given a set of mixed seeds, denoting heteroge-neous relations, the harvested tuples may convergetowards any of the relations instantiated by theseeds.
Predicting the convergent relation is inusual cases impossible, and may depend on factorspertaining to corpus characteristics.
This instabil-ity strongly suggests that seeds instantiating differ-ent types of relations should not be mixed, partic-1334ularly when learning part-whole relations, whichare characterized by many subtypes.
Seeds shouldbe defined such that they represent an ontologi-cally well-defined class, for which one may hopeto find a coherent set of extraction patterns.AcknowledgementAshwin Ittoo is part of the project ?Merging of In-coherent Field Feedback Data into Prioritized De-sign Information (DataFusion)?
(http://www.iopdatafusion.org//), sponsored by theDutch Ministry of Economic Affairs under theIOP-IPCR program.Gosse Bouma acknowledges support from theStevin LASSY project (www.let.rug.nl/?vannoord/Lassy/).ReferencesA.
Artale, E. Franconi, N. Guarino, and L. Pazzi.1996.
Part-whole relations in object-centered sys-tems: An overview.
Data & Knowledge Engineer-ing, 20(3):347?383.B.
Beamer, A. Rozovskaya, and R. Girju.
2008.
Au-tomatic semantic relation extraction with multipleboundary generation.
In Proceedings of the 23rd na-tional conference on Artificial intelligence-Volume2, pages 824?829.
AAAI Press.Matthew Berland and Eugene Charniak.
1999.
Find-ing parts in very large corpora.
In Proceedings of the37th annual meeting of the Association for Compu-tational Linguistics on Computational Linguistics,pages 57?64, Morristown, NJ, USA.
Association forComputational Linguistics.K.W.
Church and P. Hanks.
1990.
Word associationnorms, mutual information, and lexicography.
Com-putational linguistics, 16(1):22?29.T.
Dunning.
1993.
Accurate methods for the statisticsof surprise and coincidence.
Computational linguis-tics, 19(1):74.Christiane Fellbaum.
1998.
WordNet: An ElectronicLexical Database.
MIT, Cambridge.A.
Gangemi, N. Guarino, C. Masolo, A. Oltramari, andL.
Schneider.
2002.
Sweetening ontologies withDOLCE.
Knowledge Engineering and KnowledgeManagement: Ontologies and the Semantic Web,Lecture Notes in Computer Science, pages 223?233.P.
Gerstl and S. Pribbenow.
1995.
Midwinters, endgames, and body parts: a classification of part-wholerelations.
International Journal of Human Com-puter Studies, 43:865?890.R.
Girju, A. Badulescu, and D. Moldovan.
2003.Learning semantic constraints for the automatic dis-covery of part-whole relations.
In Proceedings ofHLT/NAACL, volume 3, pages 80?87.R.
Girju, A. Badulescu, and D. Moldovan.
2006.
Au-tomatic discovery of part-whole relations.
Compu-tational Linguistics, 32(1):83?135.M.A.
Hearst.
1992.
Automatic acquisition of hy-ponyms from large text corpora.
In Proceedings ofthe 14th conference on Computational linguistics-Volume 2, pages 539?545.
Association for Compu-tational Linguistics Morristown, NJ, USA.C.M.
Keet and A. Artale.
2008.
Representing andreasoning over a taxonomy of part?whole relations.Applied Ontology, 3(1):91?110.C.M.
Keet.
2006.
Part-whole relations in object-role models.
On the Move to Meaningful InternetSystems 2006, Lecture Notes in Computer Science,4278:1118?1127.D.
Klein and C.D.
Manning.
2003.
Accurate un-lexicalized parsing.
In Proceedings of the 41stAnnual Meeting on Association for ComputationalLinguistics-Volume 1, pages 423?430.
Associa-tion for Computational Linguistics Morristown, NJ,USA.T.
McIntosh and J.R. Curran.
2009.
Reducing seman-tic drift with bagging and distributional similarity.In Proceedings of the Joint Conference of the 47thAnnual Meeting of the ACL and the 4th InternationalJoint Confe rence on Natural Language Processingof the AFNLP, pages 396?404.G.A.
Miller, C. Leacock, R. Tengi, and R.T. Bunker.1993.
A semantic concordance.
In Proceedingsof the 3rd DARPA workshop on Human LanguageTechnology, pages 303?308.
New Jersey.D.P.T.
Nguyen, Y. Matsuo, and M. Ishizuka.
2007.
Re-lation extraction from wikipedia using subtree min-ing.
In Proceedings of the National Conference onArtificial Intelligence, volume 22, page 1414.
MenloPark, CA; Cambridge, MA; London; AAAI Press;MIT Press; 1999.J.
Odell.
1994.
Six different kinds of composition.Journal of Object-Oriented Programming, 5(8):10?15.Patrick Pantel and Marco Pennacchiotti.
2006.Espresso: Leveraging generic patterns for auto-matically harvesting semantic relations.
In Pro-ceedings of Conference on Computational Linguis-tics / Association for Computational Linguistics(COLING/ACL-06), pages 113?120, Sydney, Aus-tralia.S.
Pyysalo, T. Ohta, J.D.
Kim, and J. Tsujii.
2009.Static relations: a piece in the biomedical informa-tion extraction puzzle.
In Proceedings of the Work-shop on BioNLP, pages 1?9.
Association for Com-putational Linguistics.1335Mark Stevenson and Mark Greenwood.
2009.
De-pendency pattern models for information extraction.Research on Language and Computation, 3:13?39.W.R.
Van Hage, H. Kolb, and G. Schreiber.
2006.
Amethod for learning part-whole relations.
The Se-mantic Web - ISWC 2006, Lecture Notes in Com-puter Science, 4273:723?735.Gertjan van Noord.
2006.
At last parsing is now oper-ational.
In Piet Mertens, Cedrick Fairon, Anne Dis-ter, and Patrick Watrin, editors, TALN06.
Verbum ExMachina.
Actes de la 13e conference sur le traite-ment automatique des langues naturelles, pages 20?42.
Presses univ.
de Louvain.P.
Vossen, editor.
1998.
EuroWordNet A MultilingualDatabase with Lexical Semantic Networks.
KluwerAcademic publishers.M.E.
Winston, R. Chaffin, and D. Herrmann.
1987.A taxonomy of part-whole relations.
Cognitive sci-ence, 11(4):417?444.F.
Wu and D.S.
Weld.
2007.
Autonomously seman-tifying wikipedia.
In Proceedings of the sixteenthACM conference on Conference on information andknowledge management, pages 41?50.
ACM.1336
