Proceedings of the 48th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics, pages 138?147,Uppsala, Sweden, 11-16 July 2010. c?2010 Association for Computational LinguisticsExtracting Social Networks from Literary FictionDavid K. ElsonDept.
of Computer ScienceColumbia Universitydelson@cs.columbia.eduNicholas DamesEnglish DepartmentColumbia Universitynd122@columbia.eduKathleen R. McKeownDept.
of Computer ScienceColumbia Universitykathy@cs.columbia.eduAbstractWe present a method for extracting so-cial networks from literature, namely,nineteenth-century British novels and se-rials.
We derive the networks from di-alogue interactions, and thus our methoddepends on the ability to determine whentwo characters are in conversation.
Ourapproach involves character name chunk-ing, quoted speech attribution and conver-sation detection given the set of quotes.We extract features from the social net-works and examine their correlation withone another, as well as with metadata suchas the novel?s setting.
Our results provideevidence that the majority of novels in thistime period do not fit two characterizationsprovided by literacy scholars.
Instead, ourresults suggest an alternative explanationfor differences in social networks.1 IntroductionLiterary studies about the nineteenth-centuryBritish novel are often concerned with the natureof the community that surrounds the protagonist.Some theorists have suggested a relationship be-tween the size of a community and the amount ofdialogue that occurs, positing that ?face to facetime?
diminishes as the number of characters inthe novel grows.
Others suggest that as the socialsetting becomes more urbanized, the quality of di-alogue also changes, with more interactions occur-ring in rural communities than urban communities.Such claims have typically been made, however,on the basis of a few novels that are studied indepth.
In this paper, we aim to determine whetheran automated study of a much larger sample ofnineteenth century novels supports these claims.The research presented here is concerned withthe extraction of social networks from literature.We present a method to automatically constructa network based on dialogue interactions betweencharacters in a novel.
Our approach includes com-ponents for finding instances of quoted speech,attributing each quote to a character, and iden-tifying when certain characters are in conversa-tion.
We then construct a network where char-acters are vertices and edges signify an amountof bilateral conversation between those charac-ters, with edge weights corresponding to the fre-quency and length of their exchanges.
In contrastto previous approaches to social network construc-tion, ours relies on a novel combination of pattern-based detection, statistical methods, and adapta-tion of standard natural language tools for the liter-ary genre.
We carried out this work on a corpus of60 nineteenth-century novels and serials, includ-ing 31 authors such as Dickens, Austen and ConanDoyle.In order to evaluate the literary claims in ques-tion, we compute various characteristics of thedialogue-based social network and stratify theseresults by categories such as the novel?s setting.For example, the density of the network providesevidence about the cohesion of a large or smallcommunity, and cliques may indicate a social frag-mentation.
Our results surprisingly provide evi-dence that the majority of novels in this time pe-riod do not fit the suggestions provided by liter-ary scholars, and we suggest an alternative expla-nation for our observations of differences acrossnovels.In the following sections, we survey relatedwork on social networks as well as computationalstudies of literature.
We then present the literaryhypotheses in more detail.
We describe the meth-ods we use to extract dialogue and construct con-versational networks, along with our approach toanalyzing their characteristics.
After we presentthe statistical results, we analyze their significancefrom a literary perspective.1382 Related WorkComputer-assisted literary analysis has typicallyoccurred at the word level.
This level of granular-ity lends itself to studies of authorial style basedon patterns of word use (Burrows, 2004), and re-searchers have successfully ?outed?
the writers ofanonymous texts by comparing their style to thatof a corpus of known authors (Mostellar and Wal-lace, 1984).
Determining instances of ?text reuse,?a type of paraphrasing, is also a form of analysisat the lexical level, and it has recently been used tovalidate theories about the lineage of ancient texts(Lee, 2007).Analysis of literature using more semantically-oriented techniques has been rare, most likely be-cause of the difficulty in automatically determin-ing meaningful interpretations.
Some exceptionsinclude recent work on learning common event se-quences in news stories (Chambers and Jurafsky,2008), an approach based on statistical methods,and the development of an event calculus for char-acterizing stories written by children (Halpin et al,2004), a knowledge-based strategy.
On the otherhand, literary theorists, linguists and others havelong developed symbolic but non-computationalmodels for novels.
For example, Moretti (2005)has graphically mapped out texts according to ge-ography, social connections and other variables.While researchers have not attempted the auto-matic construction of social networks represent-ing connections between characters in a corpusof novels, the ACE program has involved entityand relation extraction in unstructured text (Dod-dington et al, 2004).
Other recent work in so-cial network construction has explored the use ofstructured data such as email headers (McCallumet al, 2007) and U.S. Senate bill cosponsorship(Cho and Fowler, 2010).
In an analysis of discus-sion forums, Gruzd and Haythornthwaite (2008)explored the use of message text as well as postingdata to infer who is talking to whom.
In this pa-per, we also explore how to build a network basedon conversational interaction, but we analyze thereported dialogue found in novels to determine thelinks.
The kinds of language that is used to signalsuch information is quite different in the two me-dia.
In discussion forums, people tend to use ad-dresses such as ?Hi Tom,?
while in novels, a sys-tem must determine both the speaker of a quota-tion and then the intended recipient of the dialogueact.
This is a significantly different problem.3 HypothesesIt is commonly held that the novel is a literaryform which tries to produce an accurate represen-tation of the social world.
Within literary stud-ies, the recurring problem is how that represen-tation is achieved.
Theories about the relationbetween novelistic form (the workings of plot,characters, and dialogue, to take the most basiccategories) and changes to real-world social mi-lieux abound.
Many of these theories center onnineteenth-century European fiction; innovationsin novelistic form during this period, as well as therapid social changes brought about by revolution,industrialization, and transport development, havetraditionally been linked.
These theories, however,have used only a select few representative novelsas proof.
By using statistical methods of analy-sis, it is possible to move beyond this small corpusof proof texts.
We believe these methods are es-sential to testing the validity of some core theoriesabout social interaction and their representation inliterary genres like the novel.Major versions of the theories about the socialworlds of nineteenth-century fiction tend to cen-ter on characters, in two specific ways: how manycharacters novels tend to have, and how thosecharacters interact with one another.
These two?formal?
facts about novels are usually explainedwith reference to a novel?s setting.
From the influ-ential work of the Russian critic Mikhail Bakhtinto the present, a consensus emerged that as nov-els are increasingly set in urban areas, the num-ber of characters and the quality of their interac-tion change to suit the setting.
Bakhtin?s term forthis causal relationship was chronotope: the ?in-trinsic interconnectedness of temporal and spatialrelationships that are artistically expressed in liter-ature,?
in which ?space becomes charged and re-sponsive to movements of time, plot, and history?
(Bakhtin, 1981, 84).
In Bakhtin?s analysis, dif-ferent spaces have different social and emotionalpotentialities, which in turn affect the most basicaspects of a novel?s aesthetic technique.After Bakhtin?s invention of the chronotope,much literary criticism and theory devoted itselfto filling in, or describing, the qualities of spe-cific chronotopes, particularly those of the villageor rural environment and the city or urban en-vironment.
Following a suggestion of Bakhtin?sthat the population of village or rural fictions ismodeled on the world of the family, made up of139Author/Title/Year Persp.
Setting Author/Title/Year Persp.
SettingAinsworth, Jack Sheppard (1839) 3rd urban Gaskell, North and South (1854) 3rd urbanAusten, Emma (1815) 3rd rural Gissing, In the Year of Jubilee (1894) 3rd urbanAusten, Mansfield Park (1814) 3rd rural Gissing, New Grub Street (1891) 3rd urbanAusten, Persuasion (1817) 3rd rural Hardy, Jude the Obscure (1894) 3rd mixedAusten, Pride and Prejudice (1813) 3rd rural Hardy, The Return of the Native (1878) 3rd ruralBraddon, Lady Audley?s Secret (1862) 3rd mixed Hardy, Tess of the d?Ubervilles (1891) 3rd ruralBraddon, Aurora Floyd (1863) 3rd rural Hughes, Tom Brown?s School Days (1857) 3rd ruralBronte?, Anne, The Tenant of Wildfell Hall(1848)1st rural James, The Portrait of a Lady (1881) 3rd urbanBronte?, Charlotte, Jane Eyre (1847) 1st rural James, The Ambassadors (1903) 3rd urbanBronte?, Charlotte, Villette (1853) 1st mixed James, The Wings of the Dove (1902) 3rd urbanBronte?, Emily, Wuthering Heights (1847) 1st rural Kingsley, Alton Locke (1860) 1st mixedBulwer-Lytton, Paul Clifford (1830) 3rd urban Martineau, Deerbrook (1839) 3rd ruralCollins, The Moonstone (1868) 1st urban Meredith, The Egoist (1879) 3rd ruralCollins, The Woman in White (1859) 1st urban Meredith, The Ordeal of Richard Feverel(1859)3rd ruralConan Doyle, The Sign of the Four (1890) 1st urban Mitford, Our Village (1824) 1st ruralConan Doyle, A Study in Scarlet (1887) 1st urban Reade, Hard Cash (1863) 3rd urbanDickens, Bleak House (1852) mixed urban Scott, The Bride of Lammermoor (1819) 3rd ruralDickens, David Copperfield (1849) 1st mixed Scott, The Heart of Mid-Lothian (1818) 3rd ruralDickens, Little Dorrit (1855) 3rd urban Scott, Waverley (1814) 3rd ruralDickens, Oliver Twist (1837) 3rd urban Stevenson, The Strange Case of Dr. Jekylland Mr. Hyde (1886)1st urbanDickens, The Pickwick Papers (1836) 3rd mixed Stoker, Dracula (1897) 1st urbanDisraeli, Sybil, or the Two Nations (1845) 3rd mixed Thackeray, History of Henry Esmond(1852)1st urbanEdgeworth, Belinda (1801) 3rd rural Thackeray, History of Pendennis (1848) 1st urbanEdgeworth, Castle Rackrent (1800) 3rd rural Thackeray, Vanity Fair (1847) 3rd urbanEliot, Adam Bede (1859) 3rd rural Trollope, Barchester Towers (1857) 3rd ruralEliot, Daniel Deronda (1876) 3rd urban Trollope, Doctor Thorne (1858) 3rd ruralEliot, Middlemarch (1871) 3rd rural Trollope, Phineas Finn (1867) 3rd urbanEliot, The Mill on the Floss (1860) 3rd rural Trollope, The Way We Live Now (1874) 3rd urbanGalt, Annals of the Parish (1821) 1st rural Wilde, The Picture of Dorian Gray (1890) 3rd urbanGaskell, Mary Barton (1848) 3rd urban Wood, East Lynne (1860) 3rd mixedTable 1: Properties of the nineteenth-century British novels and serials included in our study.an intimately related set of characters, many crit-ics analyzed the formal expression of this worldas constituted by a small set of characters whoexpress themselves conversationally.
RaymondWilliams used the term ?knowable communities?to describe this world, in which face-to-face rela-tions of a restricted set of characters are the pri-mary mode of social interaction (Williams, 1975,166).By contrast, the urban world, in this traditionalaccount, is both larger and more complex.
Todescribe the social-psychological impact of thecity, Franco Moretti argues, protagonists of urbannovels ?change overnight from ?sons?
into ?youngmen?
: their affective ties are no longer verticalones (between successive generations), but hor-izontal, within the same generation.
They aredrawn towards those unknown yet congenial facesseen in gardens, or at the theater; future friends,or rivals, or both?
(Moretti, 1999, 65).
The re-sult is two-fold: more characters, indeed a massof characters, and more interactions, although lessactual conversation; as literary critic Terry Eagle-ton argues, the city is where ?most of our en-counters consist of seeing rather than speaking,glimpsing each other as objects rather than con-versing as fellow subjects?
(Eagleton, 2005, 145).Moretti argues in similar terms.
For him, thedifference in number of characters is ?not just amatter of quantity... it?s a qualitative, morpho-logical one?
(Moretti, 1999, 68).
As the numberof characters increases, Moretti argues (followingBakhtin in his logic), social interactions of differ-ent kinds and durations multiply, displacing thefamily-centered and conversational logic of vil-lage or rural fictions.
?The narrative system be-comes complicated, unstable: the city turns into agigantic roulette table, where helpers and antago-nists mix in unpredictable combinations?
(Moretti,1999, 68).
This argument about how novelisticsetting produces different forms of social interac-tion is precisely what our method seeks to evalu-ate.Our corpus of 60 novels was selected for its rep-resentativeness, particularly in the following cate-gories: authorial (novels from the major canoni-140cal authors of the period), historical (novels fromeach decade), generic (from the major sub-genresof nineteenth-century fiction), sociological (set inrural, urban, and mixed locales), and technical(narrated in first-person and third-person form).The novels, as well as important metadata we as-signed to them (the perspective and setting), areshown in Table 1.
We define urban to mean setin a metropolitan zone, characterized by multi-ple forms of labor (not just agricultural).
Here,social relations are largely financial or commer-cial in character.
We conversely define rural todescribe texts that are set in a country or vil-lage zone, where agriculture is the primary activ-ity, and where land-owning, non-productive, rent-collecting gentry are socially predominant.
Socialrelations here are still modeled on feudalism (rela-tions of peasant-lord loyalty and family tie) ratherthan the commercial cash nexus.
We also exploredother properties of the texts, such as literary genre,but focus on the results found with setting and per-spective.
We obtained electronic encodings of thetexts from Project Gutenberg.
All told, these textstotal more than 10 million words.We assembled this representative corpus in or-der to test two hypotheses, which are derived fromthe aforementioned theories:1.
That there is an inverse correlation betweenthe amount of dialogue in a novel and thenumber of characters in that novel.
One ba-sic, shared assumption of these theorists isthat as the network of characters expands?as, in Moretti?s words, a quantitative changebecomes qualitative?
the importance, and infact amount, of dialogue decreases.
Witha method for extracting conversation from alarge corpus of texts, it is possible to test thishypothesis against a wide range of data.2.
That a significant difference in thenineteenth-century novel?s representation ofsocial interaction is geographical: novels setin urban environments depict a complex butloose social network, in which numerouscharacters share little conversational interac-tion, while novels set in rural environmentsinhabit more tightly bound social networks,with fewer characters sharing much moreconversational interaction.
This hypothesisis based on the contrast between Williams?srural ?knowable communities?
and thesprawling, populous, less conversationalurban fictions or Moretti?s and Eagleton?sanalyses.
If true, it would suggest that theinverse relationship of hypothesis #1 (morecharacters means less conversation) can becorrelated to, and perhaps even caused by,the geography of a novel?s setting.
Theclaims about novelistic geography and socialinteraction have usually been based oncomparisons of a selected few novelists (JaneAusten and Charles Dickens preeminently).Do they remain valid when tested against alarger corpus?4 Extracting Conversational Networksfrom LiteratureIn order to test these hypotheses, we developeda novel approach to extracting social networksfrom literary texts themselves, building on exist-ing analysis tools.
We defined ?social network?as ?conversational network?
for purposes of eval-uating these literary theories.
In a conversationalnetwork, vertices represent characters (assumed tobe named entities) and edges indicate at least oneinstance of dialogue interaction between two char-acters over the course of the novel.
The weight ofeach edge is proportional to the amount of inter-action.
We define a conversation as a continuousspan of narrative time featuring a set of charactersin which the following conditions are met:1.
The characters are in the same place at thesame time;2.
The characters take turns speaking; and3.
The characters are mutually aware of eachother and each character?s speech is mutuallyintended for the other to hear.In the following subsections, we discuss themethods we devised for the three problems in textprocessing invoked by this approach: identifyingthe characters present in a literary text, assigninga ?speaker?
(if any) to each instance of quotedspeech from among those characters, and con-structing a social network by detecting conversa-tions from the set of dialogue acts.4.1 Character IdentificationThe first challenge was to identify the candi-date speakers by ?chunking?
names (such as Mr.Holmes) from the text.
We processed each novel141with the Stanford NER tagger (Finkel et al, 2005)and extracted noun phrases that were categorizedas persons or organizations.
We then clustered thenoun phrases into coreferents for the same entity(person or organization).
The clustering process isas follows:1.
For each named entity, we generate varia-tions on the name that we would expect tosee in a coreferent.
Each variation omits cer-tain parts of multi-word names, respecting ti-tles and first/last name distinctions, similar towork by Davis et al (2003).
For example,Mr.
Sherlock Holmes may refer to the samecharacter as Mr. Holmes, Sherlock Holmes,Sherlock and Holmes.2.
For each named entity, we compile a list ofother named entities that may be coreferents,either because they are identical or becauseone is an expected variation on the other.3.
We then match each named entity to the mostrecent of its possible coreferents.
In aggre-gate, this creates a cluster of mentions foreach character.We also pre-processed the texts to normalizeformatting, detect headings and chapter breaks, re-move metadata, and identify likely instances ofquoted speech (that is, mark up spans of text thatfall between quotation marks, assumed to be a su-perset of the quoted speech present in the text).4.2 Quoted Speech AttributionIn order to programmatically assign a speaker toeach instance of quoted speech, we applied a high-precision subset of a general approach we describeelsewhere (Elson and McKeown, 2010).
The firststep of this approach was to compile a separatetraining and testing corpus of literary texts fromBritish, American and Russian authors of the nine-teenth and twentieth centuries.
The training cor-pus consisted of about 111,000 words including3,176 instances of quoted speech.
To obtain gold-standard annotations, we conducted an online sur-vey via Amazon?s Mechanical Turk program.
Foreach quote, we asked three annotators to indepen-dently choose a speaker from the list of contex-tual candidates?
or, choose ?spoken by an unlistedcharacter?
if the answer was not available, or ?notspoken by any character?
for non-dialogue casessuch as sneer quotes.We divided this corpus into training and testingsets, and used the training set to develop a catego-rizer that assigned one of five syntactic categoriesto each quote.
For example, if a quote is followedby a verb that indicates verbal expression (such as?said?
), and then a character mention, a categorycalled Character trigram is assigned to the quote.The fifth category is a catch-all for quotes that donot fall into the other four.
In many cases, the an-swer can be reliably determined based solely onits syntactic category.
For instance, in the Char-acter trigram category, the mentioned character isthe quote?s speaker in 99% of both the training andtesting sets.In all, we were able to determine the speakerof 57% of the testing set with 96% accuracy juston the basis of syntactic categorization.
This isthe technique we used to construct our conversa-tional networks.
In another study, we applied ma-chine learning tools to the data (one model foreach syntactic category) and achieved an overallaccuracy of 83% over the entire test set (Elsonand McKeown, 2010).
The other 43% of quotesare left here as ?unknown?
speakers; however, inthe present study, we are interested in conversa-tions rather than individual quotes.
Each conversa-tion is likely to consist of multiple quotes by eachspeaker, increasing the chances of detecting the in-teraction.
Moreover, this design decision empha-sizes the precision of the social networks over theirrecall.
This tilts ?in favor?
of hypothesis #1 (thatthere are fewer social interactions in larger com-munities); however, we shall see that despite theemphasis of precision over recall, we identify asufficient mass of interactions in the texts to con-stitute evidence against this hypothesis.4.3 Constructing social networksWe then applied the results from our characteridentification and quoted speech attribution meth-ods toward the construction of conversational net-works from literature.
We derived one networkfrom each text in our corpus.We first assigned vertices to character enti-ties that are mentioned repeatedly throughout thenovel.
Coreferents for the same name (such asMr.
Darcy and Darcy) were grouped into the samevertex.
We found that a network that included in-cidental or single-mention named entities becametoo noisy to function effectively, so we filtered outthe entities that are mentioned fewer than three142times in the novel or are responsible for less than1% of the named entity mentions in the novel.We assigned undirected edges between verticesthat represent adjacency in quoted speech frag-ments.
Specifically, we set the weight of eachundirected edge between two character vertices tothe total length, in words, of all quotes that eithercharacter speaks from among all pairs of adjacentquotes in which they both speak?
implying face toface conversation.
We empirically determined thatthe most accurate definition of ?adjacency?
is onewhere the two characters?
quotes fall within 300words of one another with no attributed quotes inbetween.
When such an adjacency is found, thelength of the quote is added to the edge weight,under the hypothesis that the significance of the re-lationship between two individuals is proportionalto the length of the dialogue that they exchange.Finally, we normalized each edge?s weight by thelength of the novel.An example network, automatically constructedin this manner from Jane Austen?s Mansfield Park,is shown in Figure 1.
The width of each vertex isdrawn to be proportional to the character?s shareof all the named entity mentions in the book (sothat protagonists, who are mentioned frequently,appear in larger ovals).
The width of each edge isdrawn to be proportional to its weight (total con-versation length).We also experimented with two alternate meth-ods for identifying edges, for purposes of a base-line:1.
The ?correlation?
method divides the textinto 10-paragraph segments and counts thenumber of mentions of each character ineach segment (excluding mentions insidequoted speech).
It then computes the Pear-son product-moment correlation coefficientfor the distributions of mentions for each pairof characters.
These coefficients are used forthe edge weights.
Characters that tend to ap-pear together in the same areas of the novelare taken to be more socially connected, andhave a higher edge weight.2.
The ?spoken mention?
method counts occur-rences when one character refers to anotherin his or her quoted speech.
These counts,normalized by the length of the text, are usedas edge weights.
The intuition is that charac-ters who refer to one another are likely to bein conversation.??????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????
?Figure 1: Automatically extracted conversationnetwork for Jane Austen?s Mansfield Park.4.4 EvaluationTo check the accuracy of our method for extractingconversational networks, we conducted an evalua-tion involving four of the novels (The Sign of theFour, Emma, David Copperfield and The Portraitof a Lady).
We did not use these texts when devel-oping our method for identifying conversations.For each book, we randomly selected 4-5 chap-ters from among those with significant amountsof quoted speech, so that all excerpts from eachnovel amounted to at least 10,000 words.
We thenasked three annotators to identity all the conversa-tions that occur in all 44,000 words.
We requestedthat the annotators include both direct and indi-rect (unquoted) speech, and define ?conversation?as in the beginning of Section 4, but exclude ?re-told?
conversations (those that occur within otherdialogue).We processed the annotation results by breakingdown each multi-way conversation into all of itsunique two-character interactions (for example, aconversation between four people indicates six bi-lateral interactions).
To calculate inter-annotatoragreement, we first compiled a list of all possi-ble interactions between all characters in each text.In this model, each annotator contributed a set of?yes?
or ?no?
decisions, one for every characterpair.
We then applied the kappa measurement foragreement in a binary classification problem (Co-143Method Precision Recall FSpeech adjacency .95 .51 .67Correlation .21 .65 .31Spoken-mention .45 .49 .47Table 2: Precision, recall, and F-measure of threemethods for detecting bilateral conversations inliterary texts.hen, 1960).
In 95% of character pairs, annota-tors were unanimous, which is a high agreementof k = .82.The precision and recall of our method for de-tecting conversations is shown in Table 2.
Preci-sion was .95; this indicates that we can be con-fident in the specificity of the conversational net-works that we automatically construct.
Recall was.51, indicating a sensitivity of slightly more thanhalf.
There were several reasons that we did notdetect the missing links, including indirect speech,quotes attributed to anaphoras or coreferents, and?diffuse?
conversations in which the characters donot speak in turn with one another.To calculate precision and recall for the twobaseline social networks, we set a threshold t toderive a binary prediction from the continuousedge weights.
The precision and recall valuesshown for the baselines in Table 2 represent thehighest performance we achieved by varying t be-tween 0 and 1 (maximizing F-measure over t).Both baselines performed significantly worse inprecision and F-measure than our quoted speechadjacency method for detecting conversations.5 Data Analysis5.1 Feature extractionWe extracted features from the conversational net-works that emphasize the complexity of the socialinteractions found in each novel:1.
The number of characters and the number ofspeaking characters2.
The variance of the distribution of quotedspeech (specifically, the proportion of quotesspoken by the n most frequent speakers, for1 ?
n ?
5)3.
The number of quotes, and proportion ofwords in the novel that are quoted speech4.
The number of 3-cliques and 4-cliques in thesocial network5.
The average degree of the graph, defined as?v?V |Ev||V |=2|E||V |(1)where |Ev| is the number of edges incidenton a vertex v, and |V | is the number of ver-tices.
In other words, this determines theaverage number of characters connected toeach character in the conversational network(?with how many people on average does acharacter converse??).6.
A variation on graph density that normalizesthe average degree feature by the number ofcharacters:?v?V |Ev||V |(|V | ?
1)=2|E||V |(|V | ?
1)(2)By dividing again by |V | ?
1, we use thisas a metric for the overall connectedness ofthe graph: ?with what percent of the entirenetwork (besides herself) does each charac-ter converse, on average??
The weight of theedge, as long as it is greater than 0, does notaffect either the network?s average degree orgraph density.5.2 ResultsWe derived results from the data in two ways.First, we examined the strengths of the correla-tions between the features that we extracted (forexample, between number of character verticesand the average degree of each vertex).
We usedPearson?s product-moment correlation coefficientin these calculations.
Second, we compared theextracted features to the metadata we previouslyassigned to each text (e.g., urban vs. rural).Hypothesis #1, which we described in Section3, claims that there is an inverse correlation be-tween the amount of dialogue in a nineteenth-century novel and the number of characters in thatnovel.
We did not find this to be the case.
Rather,we found a weak but positive correlation (r=.16)between the number of quotes in a novel andthe number of characters (normalizing the quotecount for text length).
There was a stronger pos-itive correlation (r=.50) between the number ofunique speakers (those characters who speak atleast once) and the normalized number of quotes,suggesting that larger networks have more conver-sations than smaller ones.
But because the first144correlation is weak, we investigated whether fur-ther analysis could identify other evidence thatconfirms or contradicts the hypothesis.Another way to interpret hypothesis #1 is thatsocial networks with more characters tend to breakapart and be less connected.
However, we foundthe opposite to be true.
The correlation betweenthe number of characters in each graph and the av-erage degree (number of conversation partners) foreach character was a positive, moderately strongr=.42.
This is not a given; a network can easily, forexample, break into minimally connected or mutu-ally exclusive subnetworks when more charactersare involved.
Instead, we found that networks tendto stay close-knit regardless of their size: even thedensity of the graph (the percentage of the com-munity that each character talks to) grows withthe total population size at r=.30.
Moreover, asthe population of speakers grows, the density islikely to increase at r=.49.
A higher number ofcharacters (speaking or non-speaking) is also cor-related with a higher rate of 3-cliques per charac-ter (r=.38), as well as with a more balanced dis-tribution of dialogue (the share of dialogue spo-ken by the top three speakers decreases at r=?.61).This evidence suggests that in nineteenth-centuryBritish literature, it is the small communities,rather than the large ones, that tend to be discon-nected.Hypothesis #2, meanwhile, posited that anovel?s setting (urban or rural) would have an ef-fect on the structure of its social network.
Afterdefining ?social network?
as a conversational net-work, we did not find this to be the case.
Sur-prisingly, the numbers of characters and speakersfound in the urban novel were not significantlygreater than those found in the rural novel.
More-over, each of the features we extracted, such asthe rate of cliques, average degree, density, andrate of characters?
mentions of other characters,did not change in a statistically significant man-ner between the two genres.
For example, Figure2 shows the mean over all texts of each network?saverage degree, with confidence intervals, sepa-rated by setting into urban and rural.
The increasein degree seen in urban texts is not significant.Rather, the only type of metadata variable thatdid impact the average degree with any signifi-cance was the text?s perspective.
Figure 2 also sep-arates texts into first- and third-person tellings andshows the means and confidence intervals for the0.4 0.6 0.8 1 1.2 1.4 1.6 1.82 2.23rd1sturbanruralAverage DegreeSetting  /  PerspectiveFigure 2: The average degree for each characteras a function of the novel?s setting and its perspec-tive.???????????????????????????????????????????????????????????????
?????????????
??????????????
??????????????????????????????????????????????
????????????
?Figure 3: Conversational networks for first-personnovels like Collins?s The Woman in White are lessconnected due to the structure imposed by the per-spective.average degree measure.
Stories told in the thirdperson had much more connected networks thanstories told in the first person: not only did the av-erage degree increase with statistical significance(by the homoscedastic t-test to p < .005), so toodid the graph density (p < .05) and the rate of3-cliques per character (p < .05).We believe the reason for this can be intuitedwith a visual inspection of a first-person graph.Figure 3 shows the conversational network ex-tracted for Collins?s The Woman in White, which istold in the first person.
Not surprisingly, the mostoft-repeated named entity in the text is I, referringto the narrator.
More surprising is the lack of con-versation connections between the auxiliary char-acters.
The story?s structure revolves around thenarrator and each character is understood in termsof his or her relationship to the narrator.
Privateconversations between auxiliary characters wouldnot include the narrator, and thus do not appear in a145first-hand account.
An ?omniscient?
third personnarrator, by contrast, can eavesdrop on any pairof characters conversing.
This highlights the im-portance of detecting reported and indirect speechin future work, as a first-person narrator may hearabout other connections without witnessing them.6 Literary Interpretation of ResultsOur data, therefore, markedly do not confirm hy-pothesis #1.
They also suggest, in relation to hy-pothesis #2 (also not confirmed by the data), astrong reason why.One of the basic assumptions behind hypoth-esis #2?
that urban novels contain more charac-ters, mirroring the masses of nineteenth-centurycities?
is not borne out by our data.
Our results do,however, strongly correlate a point of view (third-person narration) with more frequently connectedcharacters, implying tighter and more talkative so-cial networks.We would propose that this suggests that theform of a given novel?
the standpoint of the nar-rative voice, whether the voice is ?omniscient?
ornot?
is far more determinative of the kind of so-cial network described in the novel than where itis set or even the number of characters involved.Whereas standard accounts of nineteenth-centuryfiction, following Bakhtin?s notion of the ?chrono-tope,?
emphasize the content of the novel as de-terminative (where it is set, whether the novel fitswithin a genre of ?village?
or ?urban?
fiction),we have found that content to be surprisingly ir-relevant to the shape of social networks within.Bakhtin?s influential theory, and its detailed re-workings by Williams, Moretti, and others, sug-gests that as the novel becomes more urban, morecentered in (and interested in) populous urban set-tings, the novel?s form changes to accommodatethe looser, more populated, less conversationalnetworks of city life.
Our data suggests the op-posite: that the ?urban novel?
is not as stronglydistinctive a form as has been asserted, and that infact it can look much like the village fictions of thecentury, as long as the same method of narration isused.This conclusion leads to some further consider-ations.
We are suggesting that the important ele-ment of social networks in nineteenth-century fic-tion is not where the networks are set, but fromwhat standpoint they are imagined or narrated.Narrative voice, that is, trumps setting.7 ConclusionIn this paper, we presented a method for char-acterizing a text of literary fiction by extractingthe network of social conversations that occur be-tween its characters.
This allowed us to take asystematic and wide look at a large corpus oftexts, an approach which complements the nar-rower and deeper analysis performed by literaryscholars and can provide evidence for or againstsome of their claims.
In particular, we describeda high-precision method for detecting face-to-faceconversations between two named characters in anovel, and showed that as the number of charac-ters in a novel grows, so too do the cohesion, in-terconnectedness and balance of their social net-work.
In addition, we showed that the form of thenovel (first- or third-person) is a stronger predictorof these features than the setting (urban or rural).Our results thus far suggest further review of ourmethods, our corpus and our results for more in-sights into the social networks found in this andother genres of fiction.8 AcknowledgmentsThis material is based on research supported inpart by the U.S. National Science Foundation(NSF) under IIS-0935360.
Any opinions, findingsand conclusions or recommendations expressed inthis material are those of the authors and do notnecessarily reflect the views of the NSF.ReferencesMikhail Bakhtin.
1981.
Forms of time and of thechronotope in the novel.
In Trans.
Michael Holquistand Caryl Emerson, editors, The Dialogic Imagi-nation: Four Essays, pages 84?258.
University ofTexas Press, Austin.John Burrows.
2004.
Textual analysis.
In SusanSchreibman, Ray Siemens, and John Unsworth, ed-itors, A Companion to Digital Humanities.
Black-well, Oxford.Nathanael Chambers and Dan Jurafsky.
2008.
Unsu-pervised learning of narrative event chains.
In InProceedings of the 46th Annual Meeting of the As-sociation of Com- putational Linguistics (ACL-08),pages 789?797, Columbus, Ohio.Wendy K. Tam Cho and James H. Fowler.
2010.
Leg-islative success in a small world: Social networkanalysis and the dynamics of congressional legisla-tion.
The Journal of Politics, 72(1):124?135.146Jacob Cohen.
1960.
A coefficient of agreementfor nominal scales.
Educational and PsychologicalMeasurement, 20(1):37?46.Peter T. Davis, David K. Elson, and Judith L. Klavans.2003.
Methods for precise named entity matchingin digital collections.
In Proceedings of the ThirdACM/IEEE Joint Conference on Digital Libraries(JCDL ?03), Houston, Texas.George Doddington, Alexis Mitchell, Mark Przybocki,Lance Ramshaw, Stephanie Strassel, and RalphWeischedel.
2004.
The automatic content ex-traction (ace) program tasks, data, and evaluation.In Proceedings of the Fourth International Confer-ence on Language Resources and Evaluation (LREC2004), pages 837?840, Lisbon.Terry Eagleton.
2005.
The English Novel: An Intro-duction.
Blackwell, Oxford.David K. Elson and Kathleen R. McKeown.
2010.
Au-tomatic attribution of quoted speech in literary nar-rative.
In Proceedings of the Twenty-Fourth AAAIConference on Artificial Intelligence (AAAI 2010),Atlanta, Georgia.Jenny Rose Finkel, Trond Grenager, and Christo-pher D. Manning.
2005.
Incorporating non-localinformation into information extraction systems bygibbs sampling.
In Proceedings of the 43nd AnnualMeeting of the Association for Computational Lin-guistics (ACL 2005), pages 363?370.Anatoliy Gruzd and Caroline Haythornthwaite.
2008.Automated discovery and analysis of social net-works from threaded discussions.
In InternationalNetwork of Social Network Analysis (INSNA) Con-ference, St. Pete Beach, Florida.Harry Halpin, Johanna D. Moore, and Judy Robertson.2004.
Automatic analysis of plot for story rewrit-ing.
In Proceedings of the Conference on EmpiricalMethods in Natural Language Processing (EMNLP?04), Barcelona.John Lee.
2007.
A computational model of text reusein ancient literary texts.
In In Proceedings of the45th Annual Meeting of the Association of Com-putational Linguistics (ACL 2007), pages 472?479,Prague.Andrew McCallum, Xuerui Wang, and Andre?sCorrada-Emmanual.
2007.
Topic and role discoveryin social networks with experiments on enron andacademic email.
Journal of Artificial IntelligenceResearch, 30:249?272.Franco Moretti.
1999.
Atlas of the European Novel,1800-1900.
Verso, London.Franco Moretti.
2005.
Graphs, Maps, Trees: AbstractModels for a Literary History.
Verso, London.Frederick Mostellar and David L. Wallace.
1984.
Ap-plied Bayesian and Classical Inference: The Case ofThe Federalist Papers.
Springer, New York.Raymond Williams.
1975.
The Country and The City.Oxford University Press, Oxford.147
