Proceedings of the 49th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics:shortpapers, pages 592?597,Portland, Oregon, June 19-24, 2011. c?2011 Association for Computational LinguisticsIdentifying the Semantic Orientation of Foreign WordsAhmed HassanEECS DepartmentUniversity of MichiganAnn Arbor, MIhassanam@umich.eduAmjad Abu-JbaraEECS DepartmentUniversity of MichiganAnn Arbor, MIamjbara@umich.eduRahul JhaEECS DepartmentUniversity of MichiganAnn Arbor, MIrahuljha@umich.eduDragomir RadevEECS Department and School of InformationUniversity of MichiganAnn Arbor, MIradev@umich.eduAbstractWe present a method for identifying the pos-itive or negative semantic orientation of for-eign words.
Identifying the semantic orienta-tion of words has numerous applications in theareas of text classification, analysis of prod-uct review, analysis of responses to surveys,and mining online discussions.
Identifyingthe semantic orientation of English words hasbeen extensively studied in literature.
Most ofthis work assumes the existence of resources(e.g.
Wordnet, seeds, etc) that do not existin foreign languages.
In this work, we de-scribe a method based on constructing a mul-tilingual network connecting English and for-eign words.
We use this network to iden-tify the semantic orientation of foreign wordsbased on connection between words in thesame language as well as multilingual connec-tions.
The method is experimentally tested us-ing a manually labeled set of positive and neg-ative words and has shown very promising re-sults.1 IntroductionA great body of research work has focused on iden-tifying the semantic orientation of words.
Word po-larity is a very important feature that has been usedin several applications.
For example, the problemof mining product reputation from Web reviews hasbeen extensively studied (Turney, 2002; Morinagaet al, 2002; Nasukawa and Yi, 2003; Popescu andEtzioni, 2005; Banea et al, 2008).
This is a veryimportant task given the huge amount of product re-views written on the Web and the difficulty of man-ually handling them.
Another interesting applica-tion is mining attitude in discussions (Hassan et al,2010), where the attitude of participants in a discus-sion is inferred using the text they exchange.Due to its importance, several researchers haveaddressed the problem of identifying the semanticorientation of individual words.
This work has al-most exclusively focused on English.
Most of thiswork used several language dependent resources.For example Turney and Littman (2003) use the en-tire English Web corpus by submitting queries con-sisting of the given word and a set of seeds to asearch engine.
In addition, several other methodshave used Wordnet (Miller, 1995) for connecting se-mantically related words (Kamps et al, 2004; Taka-mura et al, 2005; Hassan and Radev, 2010).When we try to apply those methods to other lan-guages, we run into the problem of the lack of re-sources in other languages when compared to En-glish.
For example, the General Inquirer lexicon(Stone et al, 1966) has thousands of English wordslabeled with semantic orientation.
Most of the lit-erature has used it as a source of labeled seeds orfor evaluation.
Such lexicons are not readily avail-able in other languages.
Another source that hasbeen widely used for this task is Wordnet (Miller,1995).
Even though other Wordnets have been builtfor other languages, their coverage is very limitedwhen compared to the English Wordnet.In this work, we present a method for predictingthe semantic orientation of foreign words.
The pro-592Figure 1: Sparse Foreign Networks are connected toDense English Networks.
Dashed nodes represent la-beled positive and negative seeds.posed method is based on creating a multilingualnetwork of words that represents both English andforeign words.
The network has English-Englishconnections, as well as foreign-foreign connectionsand English-foreign connections.
This allows us tobenefit from the richness of the resources built forthe English language and in the meantime utilizeresources specific to foreign languages.
Figure 1shows a multilingual network where a sparse foreignnetwork and a dense English network are connected.We then define a random walk model over the multi-lingual network and predict the semantic orientationof any given word by comparing the mean hittingtime of a random walk starting from it to a positiveand a negative set of seed English words.We use both Arabic and Hindi for experiments.We compare the performance of several methods us-ing the foreign language resources only and the mul-tilingual network that has both English and foreignwords.
We show that bootstrapping from languageswith dense resources such as English is useful forimproving the performance on other languages withlimited resources.The rest of the paper is structured as follows.
Insection 2, we review some of the related prior work.We define our problem and explain our approach inSection 3.
Results and discussion are presented inSection 4.
We conclude in Section 5.2 Related WorkThe problem of identifying the polarity of individualwords is a well-studied problem that attracted sev-eral research efforts in the past few years.
In thissection, we survey several methods that addressedthis problem.The work of Hatzivassiloglou and McKeown(1997) is among the earliest efforts that addressedthis problem.
They proposed a method for identify-ing the polarity of adjectives.
Their method is basedon extracting all conjunctions of adjectives from agiven corpus and then they classify each conjunc-tive expression as either the same orientation suchas ?simple and well-received?
or different orienta-tion such as ?simplistic but well-received?.
Wordsare clustered into two sets and the cluster with thehigher average word frequency is classified as posi-tive.Turney and Littman (2003) identify word polar-ity by looking at its statistical association with a setof positive/negative seed words.
They use two sta-tistical measures for estimating association: Point-wise Mutual Information (PMI) and Latent Seman-tic Analysis (LSA).
Co-occurrence statistics are col-lected by submitting queries to a search engine.
Thenumber of hits for positive seeds, negative seeds,positives seeds near the given word, and negativeseeds near the given word are used to estimate theassociation of the given word to the positive/negativeseeds.Wordnet (Miller, 1995), thesaurus and co-occurrence statistics have been widely used to mea-sure word relatedness by several semantic orienta-tion prediction methods.
Kamps et al (2004) use thelength of the shortest-path in Wordnet connectingany given word to positive/negative seeds to iden-tify word polarity.
Hu and Liu (2004) use Word-net synonyms and antonyms to bootstrap from wordswith known polarity to words with unknown polar-ity.
They assign any given word the label of its syn-onyms or the opposite label of its antonyms if any ofthem are known.Kanayama and Nasukawa (2006) used syntacticfeatures and context coherency, defined as the ten-dency for same polarities to appear successively,to acquire polar atoms.
Takamura et al (2005)proposed using spin models for extracting seman-tic orientation of words.
They construct a networkof words using gloss definitions, thesaurus and co-occurrence statistics.
They regard each word as anelectron.
Each electron has a spin and each spin hasa direction taking one of two values: up or down.593Two neighboring spins tend to have the same orien-tation from an energetic point of view.
Their hypoth-esis is that as neighboring electrons tend to have thesame spin direction, neighboring words tend to havesimilar polarity.
Hassan and Radev (2010) use a ran-dom walk model defined over a word relatednessgraph to classify words as either positive or negative.Words are connected based on Wordnet relations aswell as co-occurrence statistics.
They measure therandom walk mean hitting time of the given word tothe positive set and the negative set.
They show thattheir method outperforms other related methods andthat it is more immune to noisy word connections.Identifying the semantic orientation of individ-ual words is closely related to subjectivity analy-sis.
Subjectivity analysis focused on identifyingtext that presents opinion as opposed to objectivetext that presents factual information (Wiebe, 2000).Some approaches to subjectivity analysis disregardthe context phrases and words appear in (Wiebe,2000; Hatzivassiloglou and Wiebe, 2000; Baneaet al, 2008), while others take it into considera-tion (Riloff and Wiebe, 2003; Yu and Hatzivas-siloglou, 2003; Nasukawa and Yi, 2003; Popescuand Etzioni, 2005).3 ApproachThe general goal of this work is to mine the seman-tic orientation of foreign words.
We do this by cre-ating a multilingual network of words.
In this net-work two words are connected if we believe that theyare semantically related.
The network has English-English, English-Foreign and Foreign-Foreign con-nections.
Some of the English words will be used asseeds for which we know the semantic orientation.Given such a network, we will measure the meanhitting time in a random walk starting at any givenword to the positive set of seeds and the negative setof seeds.
Positive words will be more likely to hit thepositive set faster than hitting the negative set andvice versa.
In the rest of this section, we define howthe multilingual word network is built and describean algorithm for predicting the semantic orientationof any given word.3.1 Multilingual Word NetworkWe build a network G(V,E) where V = Ven ?
Vfris the union of a set of English and foreign words.E is a set of edges connecting nodes in V .
Thereare three types of connections: English-English con-nections, Foreign-Foreign connections and English-Foreign connections.For the English-English connections, we useWordnet (Miller, 1995).
Wordnet is a large lexicaldatabase of English.
Words are grouped in synsetsto express distinct concepts.
We add a link betweentwo words if they occur in the same Wordnet synset.We also add a link between two words if they have ahypernym or a similar-to relation.Foreign-Foreign connections are created in a sim-ilar way to the English connections.
Some other lan-guages have lexical resources based on the design ofthe Princeton English Wordnet.
For example: EuroWordnet (EWN) (Vossen, 1997), Arabic Wordnet(AWN) (Elkateb, 2006; Black and Fellbaum, 2006;Elkateb and Fellbaum, 2006) and the Hindi Word-net (Narayan et al, 2002; S. Jha, 2001).
We also useco-occurrence statistics similar to the work of Hatzi-vassiloglou and McKeown (1997).Finally, to connect foreign words to Englishwords, we use a foreign to English dictionary.
Forevery word in a list of foreign words, we look upits meaning in a dictionary and add an edge betweenthe foreign word and every other English word thatappeared as a possible meaning for it.3.2 Semantic Orientation PredictionWe use the multilingual network we described aboveto predict the semantic orientation of words basedon the mean hitting time to two sets of positive andnegative seeds.
Given the graph G(V,E), we de-scribed in the previous section, we define the transi-tion probability from node i to node j by normaliz-ing the weights of the edges out from i:P (j|i) = Wij/?kWik (1)The mean hitting time h(i|j) is the average num-ber of steps a random walker, starting at i, will taketo enter state j for the first time (Norris, 1997).
Letthe average number of steps that a random walkerstarting at some node i will need to enter a state594k ?
S be h(i|S).
It can be formally defined as:h(i|S) ={0 i ?
S?j?V pij ?
h(j|S) + 1 otherwise(2)where pij is the transition probability betweennode i and node j.Given two lists of seed English words with knownpolarity, we define two sets of nodes S+ and S?representing those seeds.
For any given word w, wecalculate the mean hitting time between w and thetwo seed sets h(w|S+) and h(w|S?).
If h(w|S+)is greater than h(w|S?
), the word is classified asnegative, otherwise it is classified as positive.
Weused the list of labeled seeds from (Hatzivassiloglouand McKeown, 1997) and (Stone et al, 1966).
Sev-eral other similarity measures may be used to predictwhether a given word is closer to the positive seedslist or the negative seeds list (e.g.
average shortestpath length (Kamps et al, 2004)).
However hit-ting time has been shown to be more efficient andmore accurate (Hassan and Radev, 2010) because itmeasures connectivity rather than distance.
For ex-ample, the length of the shortest path between thewords ?good?
and ?bad?
is only 5 (Kamps et al,2004).4 Experiments4.1 DataWe used Wordnet (Miller, 1995) as a source of syn-onyms and hypernyms for linking English words inthe word relatedness graph.
We used two foreignlanguages for our experiments Arabic and Hindi.Both languages have a Wordnet that was constructedbased on the design the Princeton English Wordnet.Arabic Wordnet (AWN) (Elkateb, 2006; Black andFellbaum, 2006; Elkateb and Fellbaum, 2006) has17561 unique words and 7822 synsets.
The HindiWordnet (Narayan et al, 2002; S. Jha, 2001) has56,928 unique words and 26,208 synsets.In addition, we used three lexicons with words la-beled as either positive or negative.
For English, weused the General Inquirer lexicon (Stone et al, 1966)as a source of seed labeled words.
The lexicon con-tains 4206 words, 1915 of which are positive and2291 are negative.
For Arabic and Hindi we con-structed a labeled set of 300 words for each language0102030405060708090100Arabic HindiSO-PMI HT-FR HT-FR+ENFigure 2: Accuracy of the proposed method and baselinesfor both Arabic and Hindi.for use in evaluation.
Those sets were labeled by twonative speakers of each language.
We also used anArabic-English and a Hindi-English dictionaries togenerate Foreign-English links.4.2 Results and DiscussionWe performed experiments on the data described inthe previous section.
We compare our results totwo baselines.
The first is the SO-PMI method de-scribed in (Turney and Littman, 2003).
This methodis based on finding the semantic association of anygiven word to a set of positive and a set of negativewords.
It can be calculated as follows:SO-PMI(w) = loghitsw,pos ?
hitsneghitsw,neg ?
hitspos(3)where w is a word with unknown polarity,hitsw,pos is the number of hits returned by a com-mercial search engine when the search query is thegiven word and the disjunction of all positive seedwords.
hitspos is the number of hits when wesearch for the disjunction of all positive seed words.hitsw,neg and hitsneg are defined similarly.
We used7 positive and 7 negative seeds as described in (Tur-ney and Littman, 2003).The second baseline constructs a network of for-eign words only as described earlier.
It uses meanhitting time to find the semantic association of anygiven word.
We used 10 fold cross validation for thisexperiment.
We will refer to this system as HT-FR.Finally, we build a multilingual network and usethe hitting time as before to predict semantic orien-595tation.
We used the English words from (Stone etal., 1966) as seeds and the labeled foreign wordsfor evaluation.
We will refer to this system asHT-FR + EN.Figure 2 compares the accuracy of the three meth-ods for Arabic and Hindi.
We notice that theSO-PMI and the hitting time based methods per-form poorly on both Arabic and Hindi.
This isclearly evident when we consider that the accuracyof the two systems on English was 83% and 93% re-spectively (Turney and Littman, 2003; Hassan andRadev, 2010).
This supports our hypothesis thatstate of the art methods, designed for English, per-form poorly on foreign languages due to the limitedamount of resources available in foreign languagescompared to English.
The figure also shows that theproposed method, which combines resources fromboth English and foreign languages, performs sig-nificantly better.
Finally, we studied how much im-provement is achieved by including links betweenforeign words from global Wordnets.
We found outthat it improves the performance by 2.5% and 4%for Arabic and Hindi respectively.5 ConclusionsWe addressed the problem of predicting the seman-tic orientation of foreign words.
All previous workon this task has almost exclusively focused on En-glish.
Applying off-the-shelf methods developed forEnglish to other languages does not work well be-cause of the limited amount of resources availablein foreign languages compared to English.
We pro-posed a method based on the construction of a multi-lingual network that uses both language specific re-sources as well as the rich semantic relations avail-able in English.
We then use a model that computesthe mean hitting time to a set of positive and neg-ative seed words to predict whether a given wordhas a positive or a negative semantic orientation.We showed that the proposed method can predictsemantic orientation with high accuracy.
We alsoshowed that it outperforms state of the art methodslimited to using language specific resources.AcknowledgmentsThis research was funded in part by the Officeof the Director of National Intelligence (ODNI),Intelligence Advanced Research Projects Activity(IARPA), through the U.S. Army Research Lab.
Allstatements of fact, opinion or conclusions containedherein are those of the authors and should not beconstrued as representing the ofcial views or poli-cies of IARPA, the ODNI or the U.S. Government.ReferencesCarmen Banea, Rada Mihalcea, and Janyce Wiebe.2008.
A bootstrapping method for building subjec-tivity lexicons for languages with scarce resources.
InLREC?08.Elkateb S. Rodriguez H Alkhalifa M. Vossen P. Pease A.Black, W. and C. Fellbaum.
2006.
Introducing thearabic wordnet project.
In Third International Word-Net Conference.Black.
W. Rodriguez H Alkhalifa M. Vossen P. Pease A.Elkateb, S. and C. Fellbaum.
2006.
Building a word-net for arabic.
In Fifth International Conference onLanguage Resources and Evaluation.Black W. Vossen P. Farwell D. Rodrguez H. Pease A.Alkhalifa M. Elkateb, S. 2006.
Arabic wordnet andthe challenges of arabic.
In Arabic NLP/MT Confer-ence.Ahmed Hassan and Dragomir Radev.
2010.
Identifyingtext polarity using random walks.
In ACL?10.Ahmed Hassan, Vahed Qazvinian, and Dragomir Radev.2010.
What?s with the attitude?
: identifying sentenceswith attitude in online discussions.
In Proceedings ofthe 2010 Conference on Empirical Methods in NaturalLanguage Processing, pages 1245?1255.Vasileios Hatzivassiloglou and Kathleen R. McKeown.1997.
Predicting the semantic orientation of adjec-tives.
In EACL?97, pages 174?181.Vasileios Hatzivassiloglou and Janyce Wiebe.
2000.
Ef-fects of adjective orientation and gradability on sen-tence subjectivity.
In COLING, pages 299?305.Minqing Hu and Bing Liu.
2004.
Mining and summariz-ing customer reviews.
In KDD?04, pages 168?177.Jaap Kamps, Maarten Marx, Robert J. Mokken, andMaarten De Rijke.
2004.
Using wordnet to measuresemantic orientations of adjectives.
In National Insti-tute for, pages 1115?1118.Hiroshi Kanayama and Tetsuya Nasukawa.
2006.
Fullyautomatic lexicon expansion for domain-oriented sen-timent analysis.
In EMNLP?06, pages 355?363.George A. Miller.
1995.
Wordnet: a lexical database forenglish.
Commun.
ACM, 38(11):39?41.Satoshi Morinaga, Kenji Yamanishi, Kenji Tateishi, andToshikazu Fukushima.
2002.
Mining product reputa-tions on the web.
In KDD?02, pages 341?349.596Dipak Narayan, Debasri Chakrabarti, Prabhakar Pande,and P. Bhattacharyya.
2002.
An experience in build-ing the indo wordnet - a wordnet for hindi.
In FirstInternational Conference on Global WordNet.Tetsuya Nasukawa and Jeonghee Yi.
2003.
Sentimentanalysis: capturing favorability using natural languageprocessing.
In K-CAP ?03: Proceedings of the 2ndinternational conference on Knowledge capture, pages70?77.J.
Norris.
1997.
Markov chains.
Cambridge UniversityPress.Ana-Maria Popescu and Oren Etzioni.
2005.
Extractingproduct features and opinions from reviews.
In HLT-EMNLP?05, pages 339?346.Ellen Riloff and Janyce Wiebe.
2003.
Learningextraction patterns for subjective expressions.
InEMNLP?03, pages 105?112.P.
Pande P. Bhattacharyya S. Jha, D. Narayan.
2001.
Awordnet for hindi.
In International Workshop on Lexi-cal Resources in Natural Language Processing.Philip Stone, Dexter Dunphy, Marchall Smith, and DanielOgilvie.
1966.
The general inquirer: A computer ap-proach to content analysis.
The MIT Press.Hiroya Takamura, Takashi Inui, and Manabu Okumura.2005.
Extracting semantic orientations of words usingspin model.
In ACL?05, pages 133?140.Peter Turney and Michael Littman.
2003.
Measuringpraise and criticism: Inference of semantic orientationfrom association.
ACM Transactions on InformationSystems, 21:315?346.Peter D. Turney.
2002.
Thumbs up or thumbs down?
:semantic orientation applied to unsupervised classifi-cation of reviews.
In ACL?02, pages 417?424.P.
Vossen.
1997.
Eurowordnet: a multilingual databasefor information retrieval.
In DELOS workshop onCross-language Information Retrieval.Janyce Wiebe.
2000.
Learning subjective adjectivesfrom corpora.
In Proceedings of the SeventeenthNational Conference on Artificial Intelligence andTwelfth Conference on Innovative Applications of Ar-tificial Intelligence, pages 735?740.Hong Yu and Vasileios Hatzivassiloglou.
2003.
Towardsanswering opinion questions: separating facts fromopinions and identifying the polarity of opinion sen-tences.
In EMNLP?03, pages 129?136.597
