Proceedings of the ACL-HLT 2011 System Demonstrations, pages 68?73,Portland, Oregon, USA, 21 June 2011. c?2011 Association for Computational LinguisticsAn Interactive Machine Translation System with Online LearningDaniel Ortiz-Mart?
?nez, Luis A. Leiva, Vicent Alabau,Ismael Garc?
?a-Varea?, Francisco CasacubertaITI - Institut Tecnolo`gic d?Informa`tica, Universitat Polite`cnica de Vale`ncia?
Departamento de Sistemas Informa?ticos, Universidad de Castilla-La Mancha{dortiz,luileito,valabau,fcn}@iti.upv.es, ?ismael.garcia@uclm.esAbstractState-of-the-art Machine Translation (MT)systems are still far from being perfect.
Analternative is the so-called Interactive Ma-chine Translation (IMT) framework, wherethe knowledge of a human translator is com-bined with the MT system.
We present a sta-tistical IMT system able to learn from userfeedback by means of the application of on-line learning techniques.
These techniques al-low the MT system to update the parameters ofthe underlying models in real time.
Accordingto empirical results, our system outperformsthe results of conventional IMT systems.
Tothe best of our knowledge, this online learningcapability has never been provided by previ-ous IMT systems.
Our IMT system is imple-mented in C++, JavaScript, and ActionScript;and is publicly available on the Web.1 IntroductionThe research in the field of machine translation(MT) aims to develop computer systems which areable to translate text or speech without human in-tervention.
However, current translation technologyhas not been able to deliver full automated high-quality translations.
Typical solutions to improve thequality of the translations supplied by an MT systemrequire manual post-editing.
This serial process pre-vents the MT system from integrating the knowledgeof the human translator.An alternative way to take advantage of the exist-ing MT technologies is to use them in collaborationwith human translators within a computer-assistedtranslation (CAT) or interactive framework (Isabelleand Church, 1997).
Interactivity in CAT has beenexplored for a long time.
Systems have been de-signed to interact with linguists to solve ambiguitiesor update user dictionaries.An important contribution to CAT technology waspioneered by the TransType project (Foster et al,1997; Langlais et al, 2002).
The idea proposed inthat work was to embed data driven MT techniqueswithin the interactive translation environment.
Fol-lowing the TransType ideas, Barrachina et al (2009)proposed the so-called IMT framework, in whichfully-fledged statistical MT (SMT) systems are usedto produce full target sentences hypotheses, or por-tions thereof, which can be accepted or amendedby a human translator.
Each corrected text segmentis then used by the MT system as additional infor-mation to achieve improved suggestions.
Figure 1shows an example of a typical IMT session.The vast majority of the existing work onIMT makes use of the well-known batch learningparadigm.
In the batch learning paradigm, the train-ing of the IMT system and the interactive transla-tion process are carried out in separate stages.
Thisparadigm is not able to take advantage of the newknowledge produced by the user of the IMT system.In this paper, we present an application of the onlinelearning paradigm to the IMT framework.
In the on-line learning paradigm, the training and predictionstages are no longer separated.
This feature is par-ticularly useful in IMT since it allows to take into ac-count the user feedback.
Specifically, our proposedIMT system can be extended with the new trainingsamples that are generated each time the user vali-dates the translation of a given source sentence.
Theonline learning techniques implemented in our IMTsystem incrementally update the statistical modelsinvolved in the translation process.2 Related workThere are some works on IMT in the literature thattry to take advantage of user feedback.
One exam-ple is the work by Nepveu et al (2004), where dy-namic adaptation of an IMT system via cache-basedmodel extensions to language and translation modelsis proposed.
One major drawback of such proposalis its inability to learn new words.68source(f ): Para ver la lista de recursosreference(e?
): To view a listing of resourcesinteraction-0epes To view the resources listinteraction-1ep To viewk aes list of resourcesinteraction-2ep To view a listk list ies list i ng resourcesinteraction-3ep To view a listingk oes o f resourcesaccept ep To view a listing of resourcesFigure 1: IMT session to translate a Spanish sentence into English.
In interaction-0, the system suggests a translation(es).
In interaction-1, the user moves the mouse to accept the first eight characters ?To view ?
and presses the a key(k), then the system suggests completing the sentence with ?list of resources?
(a new es).
Interactions 2 and 3 aresimilar.
In the final interaction, the user accepts the current suggestion.Recent research on IMT has proposed the use ofonline learning as one possible way to successfullyincorporate user feedback in IMT systems (Ortiz-Mart?
?nez et al, 2010).
In the online learning setting,models are trained sample by sample.
For this rea-son, such learning paradigm is appropriate for its usein the IMT framework.
The work by Ortiz-Mart?
?nezet al (2010) implements online learning as incre-mental learning.
Specifically, an IMT system ableto incrementally update the parameters of all of thedifferent models involved in the interactive transla-tion process is proposed.
One previous attempt toimplement online learning in IMT is the work byCesa-Bianchi et al (2008).
In that work, the authorspresent a very constrained version of online learn-ing, which is not able to extend the translation mod-els due to the high time cost of the learning process.We have adopted the online learning techniquesproposed in (Ortiz-Mart?
?nez et al, 2010) to imple-ment our IMT system.
We are not aware of otherIMT tools that include such functionality.
For in-stance, a prototype system for text prediction to helptranslators is shown in (Foster et al, 2002).
Addi-tionally, Koehn (2009) presents the Caitra transla-tion tool.
Caitra aids linguists suggesting sentencecompletions, alternative words or allowing users topost-edit machine translation output.
However, nei-ther of these systems are able to take advantage ofthe user validated translations.3 Interactive Machine TranslationIMT can be seen as an evolution of the statistical ma-chine translation (SMT) framework.
In SMT, givensource string f , we seek for the target string e whichmaximizes the posterior probability:e?
= argmaxePr(e|f) (1)Within the IMT framework, a state-of-the-artSMT system is employed in the following way.
Fora given source sentence, the SMT system automati-cally generates an initial translation.
A human trans-lator checks this translation from left to right, cor-recting the first error.
The SMT system then pro-poses a new extension, taking the correct prefix epinto account.
These steps are repeated until thewhole input sentence has been correctly translated.In the resulting decision rule, we maximize over allpossible extensions es of ep:e?s = argmaxesPr(es|ep, f) (2)It is worth to note that the user interactions are atcharacter level, that is, for each submitted keystrokethe system provides a new extension (or suffix) tothe current hypothesis.
A typical IMT session for agiven source sentence is depicted in Figure 1.State-of-the-art SMT systems follow a log-linearapproach (Och and Ney, 2002), where the posterior69probability Pr(e | f) of Eq.
(1) is used.
Such log-linear approach can be easily adapted for its use inthe IMT framework as follows:e?s = argmaxes{M?m=1?mhm(ep, es, f)}(3)where each hm(ep, es, f) is a feature function rep-resenting a statistical model and ?m its correspond-ing weight.
Typically, a set of statistical generativemodels are used as feature functions.
Among thisfeature functions, the most relevant are the languageand translation models.
The language model is im-plemented using statistical n-gram language mod-els and the translation model is implemented usingphrase-based models.The IMT system proposed here is based on a log-linear SMT system which includes a total of sevenfeature functions: an n-gram language model, a tar-get sentence length model, inverse and direct phrase-based models, source and target phrase length mod-els and a reordering model.4 Online LearningIn the online learning paradigm, learning proceedsas a sequence of trials.
In each trial, a sample ispresented to the learning algorithm to be classified.Once the sample is classified, its correct label is toldto the learning algorithm.The online learning paradigm fits nicely in theIMT framework, since the interactive translation ofthe source sentences generates new user-validatedtraining samples that can be used to extend the sta-tistical models involved in the translation process.One key aspect in online learning is the time re-quired by the learning algorithm to process the newtraining samples.
One way to satisfy this constraintis to obtain incrementally updateable versions of thealgorithms that are executed to train the statisticalmodels involved in the translation process.
We haveadopted this approach to implement our IMT sys-tem.
Specifically, our proposed IMT system imple-ments the set of training algorithms that are requiredto incrementally update each component of the log-linear model.
Such log-linear model is composed ofseven components (see section 3).
One key aspect ofthe required training algorithms is the necessity toreplace the conventional expectation-maximization(EM) algorithm by its incremental version (Neal andHinton, 1998).
The complete details can be found in(Ortiz-Mart?
?nez et al, 2010).5 System OverviewIn this section the main features of our prototype areshown, including prototype design, interaction pro-tocol, prototype functionalities and demo usage.5.1 Prototype DesignPrototype architecture has been built on two mainaspects, namely, accessibility and flexibility.
Theformer is necessary to reach a larger number of po-tential users.
The latter allows researchers to testdifferent techniques and interaction protocols.For that reason, we developed an CAT Appli-cation Programming Interface (API) between theclient and the actual translation engine, by usinga network communication protocol and exposing awell-defined set of functions.Figure 2: IMT system architecture.A diagram of the architecture is shown in Fig-ure 2.
On the one hand, the IMT client provides aUser Interface (UI) which uses the API to commu-nicate with the IMT server through the Web.
Thehardware requirements in the client are very low,as the translation process is carried out remotely onthe server, so virtually any computer (including net-books, tablets or 3G mobile phones) should be fairlyenough.
On the other hand, the server, which isunaware of the implementation details of the IMTclient, uses and adapts the statistical models that areused to perform the translation.5.2 User Interaction ProtocolThe protocol that rules the IMT process has the fol-lowing steps:1.
The system proposes a full translation of theselected text segment.70Figure 3: Demo interface.
The source text segments are automatically extracted from source document.
Such segmentsare marked as pending (light blue), validated (dark green), partially translated (light green), and locked (light red).
Thetranslation engine can work either at full-word or character level.2.
The user validates the longest prefix of thetranslation which is error-free and/or correctsthe first error in the suffix.
Corrections areentered by amendment keystrokes or mouseclicks/wheel operations.3.
In this way, a new extended consolidated pre-fix is produced based on the previous validatedprefix and the interaction amendments.
Usingthis new prefix, the system suggests a suitablecontinuation of it.4.
Steps 2 and 3 are iterated until the user-desiredtranslation is produced.5.
The system adapts the models to the new vali-dated pair of sentences.5.3 Prototype FunctionalityThe following is a list of the main features that theprototype supports:?
When the user corrects the solution proposedby the system, a new improved suffix is pre-sented to the user.?
The system is able to learn from user-validatedtranslations.?
The user is able to perform actions by meansof keyboard shortcuts or mouse gestures.
Thesupported actions on the proposed suffix are:Substitution Substitute the first word or char-acter of the suffix.Deletion Delete the first word of the suffix.Insertion Insert a word before the suffix.Rejection The rejected word will not appear inthe following proposals.Acceptance Assume that the current transla-tion is correct and adapt the models.?
At any time, the user is able to visualize theoriginal document (Figure 4(a)), as well as aproperly formated draft of the current transla-tion (Figure 4(b)).?
Users can select the document to be translatedfrom a list or upload their own documents.5.4 Demo Description and UsageThis demo exploits the WWW to enable the connec-tion of simultaneous accesses across the globe, coor-dinating client-side scripting with server-side tech-nologies.
The interface uses web technologies suchas XHTML, JavaScript, and ActionScript; while theIMT engine is written in C++.The prototype is publicly available on the Web(http://cat.iti.upv.es/imt/).
To beginwith, the UI loads an index of all available transla-tion corpora.
Currently, the prototype can be testedwith the well-known Europarl corpora (Koehn,2005).
The user chooses a corpus and navigates tothe main interface page (Figure 3), where she in-teractively translates the text segments one by one.User?s feedback is then processed by the IMT server.71(a) Source document example, created from EuroParl corpus.
(b) Translated example document, preserving original format and highlighting non-translated sentences.Figure 4: Translating documents with the proposed system.All corrections are stored in plain text logs on theserver, so the user can retake them in any mo-ment, also allowing collaborative translations be-tween users.
On the other hand, this prototype al-lows uploading custom documents in text format.Since the users operate within a web browser,the system also provides crossplatform compatibil-ity and requires neither computational power nordisk space on the client?s machine.
The communi-cation between application and web server is basedon asynchronous HTTP connections, providing thusa richer interactive experience (no page refreshes arerequired.)
Moreover, the Web server communicateswith the IMT engine through binary TCP sockets,ensuring really fast response times.6 Experimental ResultsExperimental results were carried out using the Xe-rox corpus (Barrachina et al, 2009), which con-sists of translation of Xerox printer manual involv-ing three different language pairs: French-English,Spanish-English, and German-English.
This corpushas been extensively used in the literature to reportIMT results.
The corpus consists of approximately50,000 sentences pairs for training, 1,000 for devel-opment, and 1,000 for test.The evaluation criteria used in the experiments arethe key-stroke and mouse-action ratio (KSMR) met-ric (Barrachina et al, 2009), which measures theuser effort required to generate error-free transla-tions, and the well-known BLEU score, which con-stitutes a measure of the translation quality.The test corpora were interactively translatedfrom English to the other three languages, compar-ing the performance of a batch IMT (baseline) andthe online IMT systems.
The batch IMT systemis a conventional IMT system which is not able totake advantage of user feedback after each trans-lation is performed.
The online IMT system usesthe translations validated by the user to adapt thetranslation models at runtime.
Both systems wereinitialized with a log-linear model trained in batchmode using the training corpus.
Table 1 shows theBLEU score and the KSMR for the batch and theonline IMT systems (95% confidence intervals areshown).
The BLEU score was calculated from thefirst translation hypothesis produced by the IMT sys-tem for each source sentence.
All the obtained im-provements with the online IMT system were statis-tically significant.
The average online training timefor each new sample presented to the system, andthe average response time for each user interaction72(that is, time that the system uses to propose newextensions for corrected prefixes) are also shown inTable 1, which are less than a tenth of a second andaround two tenths of a second respectively1.
Ac-cording to the reported response and online trainingtimes, we can argue that the system proposed here isable to be used on real time scenarios.System BLEU KSMR LT/RT (s)En-Spbatch 55.1?
2.3 18.2?
1.1 ?
/0.09online 60.6?
2.3 15.8?
1.0 0.04 /0.09En-Frbatch 33.7?
2.0 33.9?
1.3 ?
/0.14online 42.2?
2.2 27.9?
1.3 0.09 /0.14En-Gebatch 20.4?
1.8 40.3?
1.2 ?
/0.15online 28.0?
2.0 35.0?
1.3 0.07 /0.15Table 1: BLEU and KSMR results for the XEROX testcorpora using the batch and the online IMT systems, re-porting the average online learning (LT) and the interac-tion response times (RP) in seconds.It is worth mentioning that the results presentedhere significantly improve those presented in (Bar-rachina et al, 2009) for other state-of-the-art IMTsystems using the same corpora.7 ConclusionsWe have described an IMT system with online learn-ing which is able to learn from user feedback in realtime.
As far as we know, to our knowledge, thisfeature have never been provided by previously pre-sented IMT prototypes.The proposed IMT tool is publicly availablethrough the Web (http://cat.iti.upv.es/imt/).
Currently, the system can be used to inter-actively translate the well-known Europarl corpus.We have also carried out experiments with simulatedusers.
According to such experiments, our IMTsystem is able to outperform the results obtainedby conventional IMT systems implementing batchlearning.
Future work includes researching furtheron the benefits provided by our online learning tech-niques with experiments involving real users.AcknowledgmentsWork supported by the EC (FEDER/FSE), the Span-ish Government (MEC, MICINN, MITyC, MAEC,1All the experiments were executed in a PC with 2.40 GHzIntel Xeon processor and 1GB of memory.
?Plan E?, under grants MIPRCV ?Consolider In-genio 2010?
CSD2007-00018, iTrans2 TIN2009-14511, erudito.com TSI-020110-2009-439), theGeneralitat Valenciana (grant Prometeo/2009/014,grant GV/2010/067), the Universitat Polite`cnica deVale`ncia (grant 20091027), and the Spanish JCCM(grant PBI08-0210-7127).ReferencesS.
Barrachina, O. Bender, F. Casacuberta, J. Civera,E.
Cubel, S. Khadivi, A. Lagarda, H. Ney, J. Toma?s,and E. Vidal.
2009.
Statistical approaches tocomputer-assisted translation.
Computational Lin-guistics, 35(1):3?28.N.
Cesa-Bianchi, G. Reverberi, and S. Szedmak.
2008.Online learning algorithms for computer-assistedtranslation.
Deliverable D4.2, SMART: Stat.
Multi-lingual Analysis for Retrieval and Translation.G.
Foster, P. Isabelle, and P. Plamondon.
1997.
Target-text mediated interactive machine translation.
Ma-chine Translation, 12(1):175?194.G.
Foster, P. Langlais, and G. Lapalme.
2002.
Transtype:text prediction for translators.
In Proc.
HLT, pages372?374.P.
Isabelle and K. Church.
1997.
Special issue onnew tools for human translators.
Machine Translation,12(1?2).P.
Koehn.
2005.
Europarl: A parallel corpus for statisti-cal machine translation.
In Proc.
of the MT Summit X,pages 79?86, September.P.
Koehn.
2009.
A web-based interactive computer aidedtranslation tool.
In Proc.
ACL-IJCNLP, ACLDemos,pages 17?20.P.
Langlais, G. Lapalme, and M. Loranger.
2002.Transtype: Development-evaluation cycles to boosttranslator?s productivity.
Machine Translation,15(4):77?98.R.M.
Neal and G.E.
Hinton.
1998.
A view of theEM algorithm that justifies incremental, sparse, andother variants.
In Proc.
of the NATO-ASI on Learningin graphical models, pages 355?368, Norwell, MA,USA.L.
Nepveu, G. Lapalme, P. Langlais, and G. Foster.
2004.Adaptive language and translation models for interac-tive machine translation.
In Proc.
EMNLP, pages 190?197.F.
J. Och and H. Ney.
2002.
Discriminative Trainingand Maximum Entropy Models for Statistical MachineTranslation.
In Proc.
ACL, pages 295?302.D.
Ortiz-Mart?
?nez, I.
Garc?
?a-Varea, and F. Casacuberta.2010.
Online learning for interactive statistical ma-chine translation.
In Proc.
NAACL/HLT, pages 546?554.73
