Proceedings of the 49th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics:shortpapers, pages 107?112,Portland, Oregon, June 19-24, 2011. c?2011 Association for Computational LinguisticsSubjective Natural Language Problems:Motivations, Applications, Characterizations, and ImplicationsCecilia Ovesdotter AlmDepartment of EnglishCollege of Liberal ArtsRochester Institute of Technologycoagla@rit.eduAbstractThis opinion paper discusses subjective natu-ral language problems in terms of their mo-tivations, applications, characterizations, andimplications.
It argues that such problems de-serve increased attention because of their po-tential to challenge the status of theoreticalunderstanding, problem-solving methods, andevaluation techniques in computational lin-guistics.
The author supports a more holis-tic approach to such problems; a view thatextends beyond opinion mining or sentimentanalysis.1 IntroductionInterest in subjective meaning and individual, inter-personal or social, poetic/creative, and affective di-mensions of language is not new to linguistics orcomputational approaches to language.
Languageanalysts, including computational linguists, havelong acknowledged the importance of such topics(Bu?hler, 1934; Lyons, 1977; Jakobson, 1996; Halli-day, 1996; Wiebe et al 2004; Wilson et al 2005).
Incomputational linguistics and natural language pro-cessing (NLP), current efforts on subjective naturallanguage problems are concentrated on the vibrantfield of opinion mining and sentiment analysis (Liu,2010; Ta?ckstro?m, 2009), and ACL-HLT 2011 listsSentiment Analysis, Opinion Mining and Text Clas-sification as a subject area.
The terms subjectivity orsubjectivity analysis are also established in the NLPliterature to cover these topics of growing inquiry.The purpose of this opinion paper is not to pro-vide a survey of subjective natural language prob-lems.
Rather, it intends to launch discussions abouthow subjective natural language problems have a vi-tal role to play in computational linguistics and inshaping fundamental questions in the field for thefuture.
An additional point of departure is that acontinuing focus on primarily the fundamental dis-tinction of facts vs. opinions (implicitly, denotativevs.
connotative meaning) is, alas, somewhat limit-ing.
An expanded scope of problem types will bene-fit our understanding of subjective language and ap-proaches to tackling this family of problems.It is definitely reasonable to assume that problemsinvolving subjective perception, meaning, and lan-guage behaviors will diversify and earn increased at-tention from computational approaches to language.Banea et alalready noted: ?We have seen a surgein interest towards the application of automatic toolsand techniques for the extraction of opinions, emo-tions, and sentiments in text (subjectivity)?
(p. 127)(Banea et al 2008).
Therefore, it is timely and use-ful to examine subjective natural language problemsfrom different angles.
The following account is anattempt in this direction.
The first angle that the pa-per comments upon is what motivates investigatoryefforts into such problems.
Next, the paper clarifieswhat subjective natural language processing prob-lems are by providing a few illustrative examples ofsome relevant problem-solving and application ar-eas.
This is followed by discussing yet another an-gle of this family of problems, namely what someof their characteristics are.
Finally, potential im-plications for the field of computational linguisticsat large are addressed, with the hope that this shortpiece will spawn continued discussion.1072 MotivationsThe types of problems under discussion here arefundamental language tasks, processes, and phe-nomena that mirror and play important roles in peo-ple?s daily social, interactional, or affective lives.Subjective natural language processing problemsrepresent exciting frontier areas that directly re-late to advances in artificial natural language be-havior, improved intelligent access to information,and more agreeable and comfortable language-basedhuman-computer interaction.
As just one example,interactional systems continue to suffer from a biastoward ?neutral?, unexpressive (and thus commu-nicatively cumbersome) language.From a practical, application-oriented point ofview, dedicating more resources and efforts to sub-jective natural language problems is a natural step,given the wealth of available written, spoken or mul-timodal texts and information associated with cre-ativity, socializing, and subtle interpretation.
Froma conceptual and methodological perspective, auto-matic subjective text analysis approaches have po-tential to challenge the state of theoretical under-standing, problem-solving methods, and evaluationtechniques.
The discussion will return to this pointin section 5.3 ApplicationsSubjective natural language problems extend wellbeyond sentiment and opinion analysis.
They in-volve a myriad of topics?from linguistic creativityvia inference-based forecasting to generation of so-cial and affective language use.
For the sake of illus-tration, four such cases are presented below (bearingin mind that the list is open-ended).3.1 Case 1: Modeling affect in languageA range of affective computing applications applyto language (Picard, 1997).
One such area is au-tomatically inferring affect in text.
Work on auto-matic affect inference from language data has gener-ally involved recognition or generation models thatcontrast a range of affective states either along af-fect categories (e.g.
angry, happy, surprised, neu-tral, etc.)
or dimensions (e.g.
arousal and pleasant-ness).
As one example, Alm developed an affectdataset and explored automatic prediction of affectin text at the sentence level that accounted for differ-ent levels of affective granularity (Alm, 2008; Alm,2009; Alm, 2010).
There are other examples of thestrong interest in affective NLP or affective interfac-ing (Liu et al 2003; Holzman and Pottenger, 2003;Francisco and Gerva?s, 2006; Kalra and Karahalios,2005; Ge?ne?reux and Evans, 2006; Mihalcea and Liu,2006).
Affective semantics is difficult for many au-tomatic techniques to capture because rather thansimple text-derived ?surface?
features, it requires so-phisticated, ?deep?
natural language understandingthat draws on subjective human knowledge, inter-pretation, and experience.
At the same time, ap-proaches that accumulate knowledge bases face is-sues such as the artificiality and limitations of tryingto enumerate rather than perceive and experience hu-man understanding.3.2 Case 2: Image sense discriminationImage sense discrimination refers to the problem ofdetermining which images belong together (or not)(Loeff et al 2006; Forsyth et al 2009).
What countsas the sense of an image adds subjective complex-ity.
For instance, images capture ?both word andiconographic sense distinctions ... CRANE can re-fer to, e.g.
a MACHINE or a BIRD; iconographicdistinctions could additionally include birds stand-ing, vs. in a marsh land, or flying, i.e.
sense distinc-tions encoded by further descriptive modication intext.?
(p. 547) (Loeff et al 2006).
In other words,images can evoke a range of subtle, subjective mean-ing phenomena.
Challenges for annotating imagesaccording to lexical meaning (and the use of verifi-cation as one way to assess annotation quality) havebeen discussed in depth, cf.
(Alm et al 2006).3.3 Case 3: Multilingual communicationThe world is multilingual and so are many humanlanguage technology users.
Multilingual applica-tions have strong potential to grow.
Arguably, futuregenerations of users will increasingly demand toolscapable of effective multilingual tasking, communi-cation and inference-making (besides expecting ad-justments to non-native and cross-linguistic behav-iors).
The challenges of code-mixing include dy-namically adapting sociolinguistic forms and func-tions, and they involve both flexible, subjectivesense-making and perspective-taking.1083.4 Case 4: Individualized iCALLA challenging problem area of general interestis language learning.
State-of-the-art intelligentcomputer-assisted language learning (iCALL) ap-proaches generally bundle language learners into ahomogeneous group.
However, learners are individ-uals exhibiting a vast range of various kinds of dif-ferences.
The subjective aspects here are at anotherlevel than meaning.
Language learners apply per-sonalized strategies to acquisition, and they have amyriad of individual communicative needs, motiva-tions, backgrounds, and learning goals.
A frame-work that recognizes subjectivity in iCALL mightexploit such differences to create tailored acquisitionflows that address learning curves and proficiencyenhancement in an individualized manner.
Counter-ing boredom can be an additional positive side-effectof such approaches.4 CharacterizationsIt must be acknowledged that a problem such asinferring affective meaning from text is a substan-tially different kind of ?beast?
compared to predict-ing, for example, part-of-speech tags.1 Identifyingsuch problems and tackling their solutions is alsobecoming increasingly desirable with the boom ofpersonalized, user-generated contents.
It is a use-ful intellectual exercise to consider what the gen-eral characteristics of this family of problems are.This initial discussion is likely not complete; that isalso not the scope of this piece.
The following list israther intended as a set of departure points to sparkdiscussion.?
Non-traditional intersubjectivity Subjectivenatural language processing problems are gen-erally problems of meaning or communicationwhere so-called intersubjective agreement doesnot apply in the same way as in traditionaltasks.?
Theory gaps A particular challenge is that sub-jective language phenomena are often less un-derstood by current theory.
As an example, inthe affective sciences there is a vibrant debate?indeed a controversy?on how to model or evendefine a concept such as emotion.1No offense intended to POS tagger developers.?
Variation in human behavior Humans oftenvary in their assessments of these language be-haviors.
The variability could reflect, for exam-ple, individual preferences and perceptual dif-ferences, and that humans adapt, readjust, orchange their mind according to situation de-tails.
Humans (e.g.
dataset annotators) maybe sensitive to sensory demands, cognitive fa-tigue, and external factors that affect judge-ments made at a particular place and point intime.
Arguably, this behavioral variation is partof the given subjective language problem.?
Absence of real ?ground truth??
For suchproblems, acceptability may be a more usefulconcept than ?right?
and ?wrong?.
A partic-ular solution may be acceptable/unacceptablerather than accurate/erroneous, and there maybe more than one acceptable solution.
(Rec-ognizing this does not exclude that acceptabil-ity may in clear, prototypical cases convergeon just one solution, but this scenario may notapply to a majority of instances.)
This centralcharacteristic is, conceptually, at odds with in-terannotator agreement ?targets?
and standardperformance measures, potentially creating anabstraction gap to be filled.
If we recog-nize that (ground) truth is, under some circum-stances, a less useful concept?a problem reduc-tion and simplification that is undesirable be-cause it does not reflect the behavior of lan-guage users?how should evaluation then be ap-proached with rigor??
Social/interpersonal focus Many problems inthis family concern inference (or generation)of complex, subtle dimensions of meaning andinformation, informed by experience or socio-culturally influenced language use in real-situation contexts (including human-computerinteraction).
They tend to tie into sociolin-guistic and interactional insights on language(Mesthrie et al 2009).?
Multimodality and interdisciplinarity Manyof these problems have an interactive and hu-manistic basis.
Multimodal inference is ar-guably also of importance.
For example, writ-ten web texts are accompanied by visual mat-109ter (?texts?
), such as images, videos, and textaesthetics (font choices, etc.).
As another ex-ample, speech is accompanied by biophysicalcues, visible gestures, and other perceivable in-dicators.It must be recognized that, as one would expect,one cannot ?neatly?
separate out problems of thistype, but core characteristics such as non-traditionalintersubjectivity, variation in human behavior, andrecognition of absence of real ?ground truth?
may bequite useful to understand and appropriately modelproblems, methods, and evaluation techniques.5 ImplicationsThe cases discussed above in section 3 are just se-lections from the broad range of topics involvingaspects of subjectivity, but at least they provideglimpses at what can be done in this area.
The listcould be expanded to problems intersecting with thedigital humanities, healthcare, economics or finance,and political science, but such discussions go be-yond the scope of this paper.
Instead the last item onthis agenda concerns the broader, disciplinary im-plications that subjective natural language problemsraise.?
Evaluation If the concept of ?ground truth?needs to be reassessed for subjective naturallanguage processing tasks, different and al-ternative evaluation techniques deserve care-ful thought.
This requires openness to alterna-tive assessment metrics (beyond precision, re-call, etc.)
that fit the problem type.
For ex-ample, evaluating user interaction and satis-faction, as Liu et al(2003) did for an affec-tive email client, may be relevant.
Similarly,analysis of acceptability (e.g.
via user or anno-tation verification) can be informative.
MOStesting for speech and visual systems has suchflavors.
Measuring pejoration and ameliora-tion effects on other NLP tasks for which stan-dard benchmarks exist is another such route.In some contexts, other measures of qualityof life improvements may help complement(or, if appropriate, substitute) standard evalua-tion metrics.
These may include ergonomics,personal contentment, cognitive and physicalload (e.g.
counting task steps or load bro-ken down into units), safety increase and non-invasiveness (e.g.
attention upgrade when per-forming a complex task), or.
Combining stan-dard metrics of system performance with alter-native assessment methods may provide espe-cially valuable holistic evaluation information.?
Dataset annotation Studies of human annota-tions generally report on interannotator agree-ment, and many annotation schemes and ef-forts seek to reduce variability.
That maynot be appropriate (Zaenen, 2006), consid-ering these kinds of problems (Alm, 2010).Rather, it makes sense to take advantage ofcorpus annotation as a resource, beyond com-putational work, for investigation into actuallanguage behaviors associated with the set ofproblems dealt with in this paper (e.g.
vari-ability vs. trends and language?culture?domaindependence vs. independence).
For exam-ple, label-internal divergence and intraannota-tor variation may provide useful understand-ing of the language phenomenon at stake; sur-veys, video recordings, think-alouds, or inter-views may give additional insights on human(annotator) behavior.
The genetic computationcommunity has theorized concepts such as userfatigue and devised robust algorithms that in-tegrate interactional, human input in effectiveways (Llora` et al 2005; Llora` et al 2005).Such insights can be exploited.
Reporting onsociolinguistic information in datasets can beuseful properties for many problems, assumingthat it is feasible and ethical for a given context.?
Analysis of ethical risks and gains Overall,how language and technology coalesce in so-ciety is rarely covered; but see Sproat (2010)for an important exception.
More specifically,whereas ethics has been discussed within thefield of affective computing (Picard, 1997),how ethics applies to language technologies re-mains an unexplored area.
Ethical interroga-tions (and guidelines) are especially importantas language technologies continue to be refinedand migrate to new domains.
Potential prob-lematic implications of language technologies?110or how disciplinary contributions affect the lin-guistic world?have rarely been a point of dis-cussion.
However, there are exceptions.
Forexample, there are convincing arguments forgains that will result from an increased engage-ment with topics related to endangered lan-guages and language documentation in compu-tational linguistics (Bird, 2009), see also Ab-ney and Bird (2010).
By implication, such ef-forts may contribute to linguistic and culturalsustainability.?
Interdisciplinary mixing Given that manysubjective natural language problem have a hu-manistic and interpersonal basis, it seems par-ticularly pivotal with investigatory ?mixing?
ef-forts that reach outside the computational lin-guistics community in multidisciplinary net-works.
As an example, to improve assess-ment of subjective natural language process-ing tasks, lessons can be learned from thehuman-computer interaction and social com-puting communities, as well as from the digi-tal humanities.
In addition, attention to multi-modality will benefit increased interaction as itdemands vision or tactile specialists, etc.2?
Intellectual flexibility Engaging with prob-lems that challenge black and white, right vs.wrong answers, or even tractable solutions,present opportunities for intellectual growth.These problems can constitute an opportunityfor training new generations to face challenges.6 ConclusionTo conclude: there is a strong potential?or, as thispaper argues, a necessity?to expand the scope ofcomputational linguistic research into subjectivity.It is important to recognize that there is a broad fam-ily of relevant subjective natural language problemswith theoretical and practical, real-world anchoring.The paper has also pointed out that there are certainaspects that deserve special attention.
For instance,there are evaluation concepts in computational lin-guistics that, at least to some degree, detract atten-2When thinking along multimodal lines, we might stand achance at getting better at creating core models that apply suc-cessfully also to signed languages.tion away from how subjective perception and pro-duction phenomena actually manifest themselves innatural language.
In encouraging a focus on effortsto achieve ?high-performing?
systems (as measuredalong traditional lines), there is risk involved?thesacrificing of opportunities for fundamental insightsthat may lead to a more thorough understanding oflanguage uses and users.
Such insights may in factdecisively advance language science and artificialnatural language intelligence.AcknowledgmentsI would like to thank anonymous reviewers and col-leagues for their helpful comments.ReferencesAbney, Steven and Steven Bird.
2010.
The Human Lan-guage Project: Building a Universal Corpus of theworlds languages.
Proceedings of the 48th AnnualMeeting of the Association for Computational Linguis-tics, Uppsala, Sweden, 8897.Alm, Cecilia Ovesdotter.
2009.
Affect in Text andSpeech.
VDM Verlag: Saarbrcken.Alm, Cecilia Ovesdotter.
2010.
Characteristics of highagreement affect annotation in text.
Proceedings of theLAW IV workshop at the 48th Annual Meeting of theAssociation for Computational Linguistics, Uppsala,Sweden, 118-122.Alm, Cecilia Ovesdotter.
2008.
Affect Dataset.
GNUPublic License.Alm, Cecilia Ovesdotter and Xavier Llora?.
2006.Evolving emotional prosody Proceedings of INTER-SPEECH 2006 - ICSLP, Ninth International Confer-ence on Spoken Language Processing, Pittsburgh, PA,USA, 1826-1829.Alm, Cecilia Ovesdotter, Nicolas Loeff, and DavidForsyth.
2006.
Challenges for annotating images forsense disambiguation.
Proceedings of the Workshopon Frontiers in Linguistically Annotated Corpora, atthe 21st International Conference on ComputationalLinguistics and 44th Annual Meeting of the Associa-tion for Computational Linguistics, Sydney, 1-4.Banea, Carmen, Rada Mihalcea, Janyce Wiebe, andSamer Hassan.
2008.
Multilingual subjectivity anal-ysis using machine translation.
Proceedings of the2008 Conference on Empirical Methods in NaturalLanguage Processing, 127-135.Bird, Steven.
2009.
Last words: Natural language pro-cessing and linguistic fieldwork.
Journal of Computa-tional Linguistics, 35 (3), 469-474.111Bu?hler, Karl.
1934.
Sprachtheorie: Die Darstellungs-funktion der Sprache.
Stuttgart: Gustav Fischer Ver-lag.Forsyth, David, Tamana Berg, Cecilia Ovesdotter Alm,Ali Farhadi, Julia Hockenmaier, Nicolas Loeff, andGang Wang.
Words and pictures: categories, modi-fiers, depiction, and iconography.
In S. J. Dickinson,et al(Eds.).
Object Categorization: Computer and Hu-man Vision Perspectives, 167-181.
Cambridge: Cam-bridge Univ.
Press.Francisco, Virginia and Pablo Gerva?s.
2006.
Explor-ing the compositionality of emotions in text: Wordemotions, sentence emotions and automated tagging.AAAI-06 Workshop on Computational Aesthetics: Ar-tificial Intelligence Approaches to Beauty and Happi-ness.Ge?ne?reux, Michel and Roger Evans.
2006.
Distinguish-ing affective states in weblog posts.
AAAI SpringSymposium on Computational Approaches to Analyz-ing Weblogs, 40-42.Halliday, Michael A. K. 1996.
Linguistic function andliterary style: An inquiry into the language of WilliamGolding?s The Inheritors.
Weber, Jean Jacques (ed).The Stylistics Reader: From Roman Jakobson to thePresent.
London: Arnold, 56-86.Holzman, Lars E. and William Pottenger.
2003.
Classifi-cation of emotions in Internet chat: An application ofmachine learning using speech phonemes.
LU-CSE-03-002, Lehigh University.Jakobson, Roman.
1996.
Closing statement: Linguisticsand poetics.
Weber, Jean Jacques (ed).
The StylisticsReader: From Roman Jakobson to the Present.
Lon-don: Arnold, 10-35.Karla, Ankur and Karrie Karahalios.
2005.
TextTone:Expressing emotion through text.
Interact 2005, 966-969.Liu, Bing.
2010.
Sentiment analysis and subjectivity.Handbook of Natural Language Processing, secondedition.
Nitin Indurkhya and Fred J. Damerau (Eds.
).Boca Raton: CRC Press, 627-666.Liu, Hugo, Henry Lieberman, and Ted Selker.
2003.A model of textual affect sensing using real-worldknowledge International Conference on IntelligentUser Interfaces, 125-132.Llora`, Xavier, Kumara Sastry, David E. Goldberg, Abhi-manyu Gupta, and Lalitha Lakshmi.
2005.
Combatinguser fatigue in iGAs: Partial ordering, Support Vec-tor Machines, and synthetic fitness Proceedings of theGenetic and Evolutionary Computation Conference.Llora`, Xavier, Francesc Al?
?as, Llu?
?s Formiga, KumaraSastry and David E. Goldberg.
Evaluation consis-tency in iGAs: User contradictions as cycles in partial-ordering graphs IlliGAL TR No 2005022, Universityof Illinois at Urbana-Champaign.Loeff, Nicolas, Cecilia Ovesdotter Alm, and DavidForsyth.
2006.
Discriminating image senses by clus-tering with multimodal features.
Proceedings of the21st International Conference on Computational Lin-guistics and the 44th ACL, Sydney, Australia, 547-554.Lyons, John.
1977.
Semantics volumes 1, 2.
Cambridge:Cambridge University Press.Mesthrie, Rajend, Joan Swann, Ana Deumert, andWilliam Leap.
2009.
Introducing Sociolinguistics,2nd ed.
Amsterdam: John Benjamins.Mihalcea, Rada and Hugo Liu.
2006.
A corpus-based ap-proach to finding happiness.
AAAI Spring Symposiumon Computational Approaches to Analyzing Weblogs,139-144.Picard, Rosalind W. 1997.
Affective Computing.
Cam-bridge, Massachusetts: MIT Press.Sproat, Richard.
2010.
Language, Technology, and Soci-ety.
Oxford: Oxford University Press.Ta?ckstro?m, Oscar.
2009.
A literature survey of methodsfor analysis of subjective language.
SICS TechnicalReport T2009:08, ISSN 1100-3154.Wiebe, Janyce, Theresa Wilson, Rebecca Bruce,Matthew Bell, and Melanie Martin.
2004.
Learningsubjective language.
Journal of Computational Lin-guistics 30 (3), 277-308.Wilson, Theresa, Janyce Wiebe, and Paul Hoffman.2005.
Recognizing contextual polarity in phrase-levelsentiment analysis.
Proceedings of the Human Lan-guage Technology Conference and Conference on Em-pirical Methods in Natural Language Processing, 347-354.Zaenen, Annie.
2006.
Mark-up barking up the wrongtree.
Journal of Computational Linguistics 32 (4),577-580.112
