Proceedings of the 49th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics:shortpapers, pages 305?310,Portland, Oregon, June 19-24, 2011. c?2011 Association for Computational LinguisticsTowards Tracking Semantic Change by Visual AnalyticsChristian Rohrdantz1 Annette Hautli2 Thomas Mayer2Miriam Butt2 Daniel A. Keim1 Frans Plank2Department of Computer Science1 Department of Linguistics2University of KonstanzAbstractThis paper presents a new approach to detect-ing and tracking changes in word meaning byvisually modeling and representing diachronicdevelopment in word contexts.
Previous stud-ies have shown that computational modelsare capable of clustering and disambiguat-ing senses, a more recent trend investigateswhether changes in word meaning can betracked by automatic methods.
The aim of ourstudy is to offer a new instrument for inves-tigating the diachronic development of wordsenses in a way that allows for a better under-standing of the nature of semantic change ingeneral.
For this purpose we combine tech-niques from the field of Visual Analytics withunsupervised methods from Natural LanguageProcessing, allowing for an interactive visualexploration of semantic change.1 IntroductionThe problem of determining and inferring the senseof a word on the basis of its context has been thesubject of quite a bit of research.
Earlier investiga-tions have mainly focused on the disambiguation ofword senses from information contained in the con-text, e.g.
Schu?tze (1998) or on the induction of wordsenses (Yarowsky, 1995).
Only recently, the fieldhas added a diachronic dimension to its investiga-tions and has moved towards the computational de-tection of sense development over time (Sagi et al,2009; Cook and Stevenson, 2010), thereby comple-menting theoretical investigations in historical lin-guistics with information gained from large corpora.These approaches have concentrated on measuringgeneral changes in the meaning of a word (e.g., nar-rowing or pejoration), whereas in this paper we dealwith cases where words acquire a new sense by ex-tending their contexts to other domains.For the scope of this investigation we restrict our-selves to cases of semantic change in English eventhough the methodology is generally language in-dependent.
Our choice is on the one hand moti-vated by the extensive knowledge available on se-mantic change in English.
On the other hand, ourchoice was driven by the availability of large cor-pora for English.
In particular, we used the NewYork Times Annotated Corpus.1 Given the varietyand the amount of text available, we are able to trackchanges from 1987 until 2007 in 1.8 million news-paper articles.In order to be able to explore our approach in afruitful manner, we decided to concentrate on wordswhich have acquired a new dimension of use dueto the introduction of computing and the internet,e.g., to browse, to surf, bookmark.
In particular,the Netscape Navigator was introduced in 1994 andour data show that this does indeed correlate with achange in use of these words.Our approach combines methods from the fieldsof Information Visualization and Visual Analyt-ics (Thomas and Cook, 2005; Keim et al, 2010)with unsupervised techniques from Natural Lan-guage Processing (NLP).
This combination providesa novel instrument which allows for tracking the di-achronic development of word meaning by visual-izing the contexts in which the words occur.
Ouroverall aim is not to replace linguistic analysis in1http://http://www.ldc.upenn.edu/305this field with an automatic method, but to guide re-search by generating new hypotheses about the de-velopment of semantic change.2 Related workThe computational modeling of word senses is basedon the assumption that the meaning of a word canbe inferred from the words in its immediate con-text (?context words?).
Research in this area mainlyfocuses on two related tasks: Word Sense Disam-biguation (WSD) and Word Sense Induction (WSI).The goal of WSD is to classify occurrences of pol-ysemous words according to manually predefinedsenses.
One popular method for performing sucha classification is Latent Semantic Analysis (LSA)(Deerwester et al, 1990), with other methods alsosuitable for the task (see Navigli (2009) for an ex-tensive survey).The aim of WSI is to learn word senses fromtext corpora without having a predefined number ofsenses.
This goal is more difficult to achieve, as itis not clear beforehand how many senses should beextracted and how a sense could be described in anabstract way.
Recently, however, Brody and Lapata(2009) have shown that Latent Dirichlet Allocation(LDA) (Blei et al, 2003) can be successfully appliedto perform word sense induction from small wordcontexts.The original idea of LSA and LDA is to learn ?top-ics?
from documents, whereas in our scenario wordcontexts rather than documents are used, i.e., a smallnumber of words before and after the word underinvestigation (bag of words).
Sagi et al (2009)have demonstrated that broadening and narrowingof word senses can be tracked over time by applyingLSA to small word contexts in diachronic corpora.In addition, we will use LDA, which has proven evenmore reliable in the course of our investigations.In general, the aim of our paper is to go beyondthe approach of Sagi et al (2009) and analyze se-mantic change in more detail.
Ideally, a startingpoint of change is found and the development overtime can be tracked, paired with a quantitative com-parison of prevailing senses.
We therefore suggestto visualize word contexts in order to gain a betterunderstanding of diachronic developments and alsogenerate hypotheses for further investigations.3 An interactive visualization approach tosemantic changeIn order to test our approach, we opted for a largecorpus with a high temporal resolution.
The NewYork Times Annotated Corpus with 1.8 millionnewspaper articles from 1987 to 2007 has a rathersmall time depth of 20 years but provides a timestamp for the exact publication date.
Therefore,changes can be tracked on a daily basis.The data processing involved context extraction,vector space creation, and sense modeling.
AsSchu?tze (1998) showed, looking at a context win-dow of 25 words before and after a key word pro-vides enough information in order to disambiguateword senses.
Each extracted context is comple-mented with the time stamp from the corpus.
Toreduce the dimensionality, all context words werelemmatized and stop words were filtered out.For the set of all contexts of a key word, a globalLDA model was trained using the MALLET toolkit2(McCallum, 2002).
Each context is assigned to itsmost probable topic/sense, complemented by a spe-cific point on the time scale according to its timestamp from the corpus.
Contexts for which the high-est probability was less than 40% were omitted be-cause they could not be assigned to a certain senseunambiguously.
The distribution of senses over timewas then visualized.3.1 VisualizationDifferent visualizations provide multidimensionalviews on the data and yield a better understandingof the developments.
While plotting every word oc-currence individually offers the opportunity to detectand inspect outliers, aggregated views on the dataare able to provide insights on overall developments.Figure 1 provides a view where the percentages ofword contexts belonging to different senses are plot-ted over time.
For the verbs to browse and to surfseven senses are learned with LDA.
Each sense cor-responds to one row and is described by the top fiveterms identified by LDA.
The higher the gray areaat a certain x-axis point, the more of the contexts ofthe corresponding year belong to the specific sense.Each shade of gray represents 10% of the overalldata, i.e., three shades of gray mean that between2http://mallet.cs.umass.edu/306to browse to surftime, library,student, music,peopleshop, street,book, store, artbook, read,bookstore, find,yeardeer, plant,tree, garden,animalsoftware, microsoft,internet, netscape,windowsweb, internet,site, mail ,computerstore, shop,buy, day,customersport, wind,water, ski, offerwave, surfer,board, year,sportchannel,television,show, watch, tvweb, internet,site, computer,companyfilm, boy,movie, show,rideyear, day, time,school, friendbeach, wave,surfer, long,coastabcdefghijklmnFigure 1: Temporal development of different senses concerning the verbs to browse (left) and to surf (right)20% and 30% of the contexts can be attributed tothat sense.
For each year one value has been gener-ated and values between two years are linearly inter-polated.Figure 2 shows the development of contexts overtime, with each context plotted individually.
Themore recent the context, the darker the color.3 Eachaxis represents one sense of to browse, in each sub-figure different combinations of senses are plotted.A random jitter has been introduced to avoid over-laps.
Contexts in the middle (not the lower left cor-ner, but the middle of the graph, e.g., see e vs. f)belong to both senses with at least 40% probabil-ity.
Senses that share many ambiguous contexts areusually similar.
By mousing over a colored dot, itscontext is shown, allowing for an in depth analysis.3.2 Case studiesIn order to be able to judge the effectiveness of ournew approach, we chose key words that are likelycandidates for a change in use in the time from 1987to 2007.
That is, we concentrated on terms relat-ing to the relatively recent introduction of the inter-net.
The advantage of these terms is that the causeof change can be located precisely in time.Figure 1 shows the temporal sense developmentof the verbs to browse and to surf, together withthe descriptive terms for each sense.
Sense e for to3The pdf version of this paper contains a bipolar color map.browse and sense k for to surf pattern quite similarly.Inspecting their contexts reveals that both senses ap-pear with the invention of web browsers, peakingshortly after the introduction of Netscape Navigator(1994).
For to browse, another broader sense (sensef) concerning browsing in both the internet and dig-ital media collections shows a continuous increaseover time, dominating in 2007.The first occurrences assigned to sense f in 1987are ?browse data bases?, ?word-by-word brows-ing?
in databases and ?browsing files in the cen-ter?s library?, referring to physical files, namely pho-tographs.
We speculate that the sense of browsingphysical media might haven given rise to the sensewhich refers to browsing electronic media, which inturn becomes the dominating sense with the adventof the web.Figure 2 shows pairwise comparisons of wordsenses with respect to the contexts they share, i.e.,contexts that cannot unambiguously be assigned toone or the other.
Each context is represented byone dot colored according to its time stamp.
It canbe seen that senses d (animals that browse) and e(browsing the web) share no contexts at all.
Sensesd (animals that browse) and f (browsing files) shareonly few contexts.
In turn, senses e and f share afair number of contexts, which is to be expected, asthey are closely related.
Single contexts, each rep-resented by a colored dot, can be inspected via a307Figure 2: Pairwise comparisons of different senses for the verb ?to browse?.
In each subfigure different combinationsof LDA dimensions are mapped on the axes.LSA dimensions1 web 0.40, internet 0.38, software 0.36, microsoft 0.28, win-dows 0.182 microsoft 0.24, software 0.23, windows 0.13, internet 0.13,netscape 0.123 microsoft 0.27, store 0.22, shop 0.20, windows 0.19, software0.164 shop 0.32, netscape 0.23, web 0.23, store 0.19, software 0.195 book 0.48, netscape 0.26, software 0.17, world 0.13, commu-nication 0.126 internet 0.58, shop 0.25, service 0.16, computer 0.13, people0.117 make 0.39, shop 0.34, site 0.16, windows 0.13, art 0.08... ...15 find 0.30, people 0.22, year 0.19, deer 0.16, day 0.15Table 1: Descriptive terms for the top LSA dimensions forthe contexts of to browse.
For each dimension the top 5positively associated terms were extracted, together withtheir value in the corresponding dimension.mouse roll over.
This allows for an in-depth look atspecific data points and a better understanding howthe data points relate to a sense.3.3 LSA vs. LDAIn comparison, Table 1 shows the LSA dimensionslearned from the contexts of the verb to browse.
Thetop five associated terms for each dimension havebeen extracted as descriptor.
The dimensions areheavily dominated by senses strongly representedin the corpus (e.g., browsing the web).
Infrequentsenses (e.g., animals that browse) only occur in verylow-ranked dimensions and are mixed with othersenses (see the bold term deer in dimension 15).4 EvaluationWe compared the findings provided by our visual-ization with word sense information coming fromvarious resources, namely the 2007 Collins dictio-nary (COLL), the English WordNet4 (WN) (Fell-baum, 1998) and the Longman Dictionary (LONG)from 1987.
Senses that evolved later than 1987should not appear in LONG, but should appear inlater dictionaries.However, we are well aware that dictionaries areby no means good gold standards as lexicogra-phers themselves vary greatly when assigning wordsenses.
Nevertheless, this comparison can provide afirst indication as to whether the results of our toolis in line with other methods of identifying senses.In the case of to browse, COLL and WordNetsuggest the senses ?shopping around; not necessar-ily buying?, ?feed as in a meadow or pasture?
and?browse a computer directory, surf the internet or theworld wide web.?
These senses are also identified inour visualizations, which even additionally differen-tiate between the senses of ?browsing the web?
and?browsing a computer directory.?
A WordNet sensethat cannot be detected in the data is the meaning ?toeat lightly and try different dishes.
?Table 2 shows the results of comparing dictionaryword senses (DIC) with the results from our visual-ization (VIS).
What can be seen is that our methodis able to track semantic change diachronically and4http://wordnetweb.princeton.edu308to browse to surf messenger bug bookmark# of word senses # of word senses # of word senses # of word senses # of word sensesDIC VIS DIC VIS DIC VIS DIC VIS DIC VIS1987 (LONG) 2 3 1 1 1 2 6 3 1 11998 (WN) 5 4 3 3 1 3 5 3 1 22007 (COLL) 3 4 3 2 1 3 5 3 2 2Table 2: A comparison of different word senses as given in dictionaries with the visualization results across timein the majority of cases, the number of our sensescorrespond to the information coming from the dic-tionaries.
In some cases we are even more accuratein discriminating them.
In the case of ?messenger?,the visualizations suggest another sense related to?instant messaging?
that arises with the advent ofthe AOL instant messenger in 1997.
This leads us tothe conclusion that our method is appropriate from ahistorical linguistic point of view.5 Discussion and conclusionsWhen dealing with a complex phenomenon such assemantic change, one has to be aware of the limita-tions of an automatic approach in order to be ableto draw the right conclusions from its results.
Thefirst results of the case studies presented in this pa-per show that LDA is useful for distinguishing dif-ferent word senses on the basis of word contexts andperforms better than LSA for this task.
Further, ithas been demonstrated by exemplary cases that theemergence of a new word sense can be detected byour new methodologyOne of the main reasons for an interactive visu-alization approach is the possibility of being able todetect conspicuous patterns at-a-glance, yet at thesame time being able to delve into the details of thedata by zooming in on the occurrences of particu-lar words in their contexts.
This makes it possibleto compensate for one of the major disadvantagesof generative and vector space models, namely theirfunctioning as ?black boxes?
whose results cannotbe tracked easily.The biggest problem in dealing with a corpus-based method of detecting meaning change is theavailability of suitable corpora.
First, computing se-mantic information on the basis of contexts requiresa large amount of data in order to be able to infer re-liable results.
Second, the words in the context fromwhich the meanings will be distinguished should beboth semantically and orthographically stable overtime so that comparisons between different stages inthe development of the language can be made.
Un-fortunately, both requirements are not always met.On the one hand words do change their meaning,after all this is what the present study is all about.However, we assume that the meanings in a certaincontext window are stable enough to infer reliableresults provided it is possible that the forms of thesame words in different periods can be linked.
Thisof course limits the applicability of the approach tosmaller time ranges due to changes in the phoneticform of words.
Moreover, in particular for older pe-riods of the language, different variants for the sameword, either due to sound changes or different (orrather no) spelling conventions, abound.
For now,we circumvent this problem by testing our tool oncorpora where the drawbacks of historical texts areless severe but at the same time interesting develop-ments can be detected to prove our approach correct.For future research, we want to test our methodol-ogy on a broader range of terms, texts and languagesand develop novel interactive visualizations to aidinvestigations in two ways.
As a first aim, the usershould be allowed to check the validity and qualityof the visualizations by experimenting with param-eter settings and inspecting their outcome.
Second,the user is supposed to gain a better understanding ofsemantic change by interactively exploring a corpus.AcknowledgmentsThis work has partly been funded by the ResearchInitiative ?Computational Analysis of LinguisticDevelopment?
at the University of Konstanz and bythe German Research Society (DFG) under the grantGK-1042, Explorative Analysis and Visualization ofLarge Information Spaces, Konstanz.
The authorswould like to thank Zdravko Monov for his program-ming support.309ReferencesDavid M. Blei, Andrew Y. Ng, and Michael I. Jordan.2003.
Latent dirichlet alocation.
Journal of MachineLearning Research, 3:993?1022.Samuel Brody and Mirella Lapata.
2009.
Bayesian wordsense induction.
In Proceedings of the 12th Con-ference of the European Chapter of the Associationfor Computational Linguistics, EACL ?09, pages 103?111, Stroudsburg, PA, USA.
Association for Compu-tational Linguistics.Paul Cook and Suzanne Stevenson.
2010.
Automati-cally Identifying Changes in the Semantic Orientationof Words.
In Proceedings of the Seventh conferenceon International Language Resources and Evaluation(LREC?10), pages 28?34, Valletta, Malta.Scott Deerwester, Susan T. Dumais, George W. Furnas,Thomas K. Landauer, and Richard Harshman.
1990.Indexing by latent semantic analysis.
Journal of theAmerican Society for Information Science, 41:391?407.Christiane Fellbaum.
1998.
WordNet: An ElectronicLexical Database.
MIT Press, Cambridge, MA.Daniel A. Keim, Joern Kohlhammer, Geoffrey Ellis, andFlorian Mansmann, editors.
2010.
Mastering The In-formation Age - Solving Problems with Visual Analyt-ics.
Goslar: Eurographics.Andrew Kachites McCallum.
2002.
MALLET:A Machine Learning for Language Toolkit.http://mallet.cs.umass.edu.Roberto Navigli.
2009.
Word sense disambiguation: Asurvey.
ACMComputing Surveys (CSUR), 41(2):1?69.Eyal Sagi, Stefan Kaufmann, and Brady Clark.
2009.Semantic Density Analysis: Comparing Word Mean-ing across Time and Phonetic Space.
In Proceedingsof the EACL 2009 Workshop on GEMS: GEometicalModels of Natural Language Semantics, pages 104?111, Athens, Greece.Hinrich Schu?tze.
1998.
Automatic word sense discrimi-nation.
Computational Linguistics, 24(1):97?123.James J. Thomas and Kristin A. Cook.
2005.
Illuminat-ing the Path The Research and Development Agendafor Visual Analytics.
National Visualization and Ana-lytics Center.David Yarowsky.
1995.
Unsupervised word sense dis-ambiguation rivaling supervised methods.
In Proceed-ings of the 33rd annual meeting on Association forComputational Linguistics (ACL ?95), pages 189?196,Cambridge, Massachusetts.310
