Proceedings of the 49th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics:shortpapers, pages 130?134,Portland, Oregon, June 19-24, 2011. c?2011 Association for Computational LinguisticsFrench TimeBank: An ISO-TimeML Annotated Reference CorpusAndre?
BittarAlpageUniv.
Paris Diderotandre.bittar@linguist.jussieu.frPascal AmsiliLLFUniv.
Paris Diderotamsili@linguist.jussieu.frPascal DenisAlpageINRIApascal.denis@inria.frLaurence DanlosAlpageUniv.
Paris Diderotdanlos@linguist.jussieu.frAbstractThis article presents the main points in the cre-ation of the French TimeBank (Bittar, 2010),a reference corpus annotated according to theISO-TimeML standard for temporal annota-tion.
A number of improvements were madeto the markup language to deal with linguisticphenomena not yet covered by ISO-TimeML,including cross-language modifications andothers specific to French.
An automatic pre-annotation system was used to speed up theannotation process.
A preliminary evaluationof the methodology adopted for this projectyields positive results in terms of data qualityand annotation time.1 IntroductionThe processing of temporal information (events,time expressions and relations between these enti-ties) is essential for overall comprehension of nat-ural language discourse.
Determining the temporalstructure of a text can bring added value to numer-ous NLP applications (information extraction, Q&Asystems, summarization...).
Progress has been madein recent years in the processing of temporal data,notably through the ISO-TimeML standard (ISO,2008) and the creation of the TimeBank 1.2 cor-pus (Pustejovsky et al 2006) for English.
Here wepresent the French TimeBank (FTiB), a corpus forFrench annotated in ISO-TimeML.
We also presentthe methodology adopted for the creation of this re-source, which may be generalized to other annota-tion tasks.
We evaluate the effects of our methodol-ogy on the quality of the corpus and the time takenin the task.2 ISO-TimeMLISO-TimeML (ISO, 2008) is a surface-based lan-guage for the marking of events (<EVENT> tag) andtemporal expressions (<TIMEX3>), as well as therealization of the temporal (<TLINK>), aspectual(<ALINK>) and modal subordination (<SLINK>)relations that exist among these entities.
The tags?attributes capture semantic and grammatical featuressuch as event class, tense, aspect and modality, andthe type and normalized interpretative value of tem-poral expressions.
The <SIGNAL> tag is used to an-notate relation markers, such as before and after.
Aset of resources for English has been developed overthe years, including an annotated corpus, TimeBank1.2 (TB1.2)1, which has become a reference for tem-poral annotation in English.3 Improving ISO-TimeMLWe propose a number of improvements to ISO-TimeML to deal with as yet untreated phenom-ena.
These include both cross-language annotationguidelines, as well as guidelines specific to French.All these guidelines are implemented in the FTiB.Cross-language Improvements : ISO-TimeMLcurrently provides for the annotation of eventmodality by capturing the lemma of a modal ona subordinated event tag in the modality at-tribute.
Inspired by the fact that in French, modal-ity is expressed by fully inflected verbs, we pro-pose that those verbs be tagged as modal, and we1Annotated according to the TimeML 1.2 specification, asopposed to the more recent ISO-TimeML.130provide a set of normalized values for the modal-ity attribute, within a manual annotation context,that reflect the classic classes of linguistic modality(Palmer, 1986): NECESSITY and POSSIBILITY(epistemic), OBLIGATION and PERMISSION (de-ontic).
We also provide a way of capturing the dif-ference between support verb constructions witha neutral aspectual value (mener une attaque (carryout an attack)) and those with an inchoative as-pectual value (lancer une attaque (launch an at-tack)).
ISO-TimeML encodes the relation betweenthe verb and its nominal argument via a <TLINK>of type IDENTITY.
We encode aspectual variantsin the FTiB by using an <ALINK>.
A signifi-cant proportion (13/36) of the annotated <ALINK>tags in the FTiB (36%) are used in this case.
Athird improvement we propose is the introduction ofthe event class EVENT CONTAINER2 to distinguishpredicates that take an event nominal as subject.In TB1.2, these predicates were sometimes marked,but not distinguished from the OCCURRENCE class.The distinction is appropriate as these predicateshave events as arguments, unlike OCCURRENCEs.The relative frequency of this class (19 occurrences)compared to the standard PERCEPTION class (10)also justifies its use.
Although not yet dealt within ISO-TimeML, aspectual periphrases, such asen train de + Vinf (akin to the English progres-sive -ing), adding an aspectual value to an event,are captured in the FTiB in the aspect attributefor events.
We also propose a new value for as-pect, PROSPECTIVE, encoding the value of theconstruction aller + Vinf (going to + Vinf ), as inle soleil va exploser (the sun is going to explode).Improvements for French : a correspondence hadto be made between the ISO-TimeML schema andthe grammatical tense system of French, in particu-lar, to account for tenses such as the passe?
compose?
(PAST tense value, as opposed to the present per-fect used in English) and imparfait (IMPERFECT,not present in English as a morphological tense).French modal verbs behave differently to Englishmodal auxiliaries as they can be conjugated in alltenses, fall within the scope of aspectual, negativepolarity and other modal operators.
Unlike in TB1.2,2After the terminology of (Vendler, 1967)modal verbs (and adjectives), are marked <EVENT>in FTiB and have the class MODAL.
72 events (3.4%)are annotated with this class in the FTiB.4 MethodologyText sampling : the source texts for the FTiB wereselected from the Est Re?publicain corpus of journal-istic texts.3 The journalistic genre was chosen forits relatively high frequency of events and temporalexpressions.
Texts were sampled from 7 differentsub-genres4, the distributions of which are shown inTable 1.
Certain sub-genres appear in higher pro-portions than others, for two main reasons.
Firstly,to favor comparison with TB1.2 (which is made upof news articles).
Secondly, because the news gen-res are relatively diverse in style compared to theother sub-genres, which follow a certain format (e.g.obituaries).
We present some of the correlations be-tween sub-genre and linguistic content in Section 5.Sub-genre Doc # Doc % Token # Token %Annmt.
22 20.2% 1 679 10.4%Bio.
1 0.9% 186 1.1%Intl.
news 32 29.4% 5 171 31.9%Loc.
news 19 17.5% 4 370 27.0%Natl.
news 25 22.9% 3 347 20.7%Obituary 2 1.8% 313 1.9%Sport 8 7.3% 1 142 7.0%Total 109 100% 16 208 100%Table 1: Proportions of sub-genres in the FTiB.Automatic pre-annotation : To speed up the an-notation process, we carried out an automatic pre-annotation of markables (events, temporal expres-sions and some relation markers), followed by man-ual correction.
Relations were annotated entirely byhand, as this task remains very difficult to automate.Below we describe the two modules developed forpre-annotation.The TempEx Tagger marks temporal expressions<TIMEX3> and sets the tag?s attributes, and anno-tates certain <SIGNAL> tags.
This module con-sists of a set of Unitex (Paumier, 2008) transduc-ers that are applied to raw text.
We adapted and3Available at http://www.cnrtl.fr.4These are announcement, biography, international news,local news, national news, obituary and sport.131EVENTcorrectionAdjudication AdjudicationCoherencecheckTIMEX3correctionSIGNALcorrectionPre-annotatedtextAnnotatedMarkablesAnnotatedMarkables +LINKsGoldStandardLINKannotationFigure 1: Schema of the annotation strategy.enriched a pre-existing set of transducers for anno-tating temporal expressions in French (Gross, 2002)for our purposes.
Marked expressions are classifiedaccording to their ISO-TimeML type5 and the val-ues of certain attributes are calculated.
The valueattribute is only set during normalization, carried outafter the detection phase.
A script calculates normal-ized values for marked expressions, including index-icals, such as lundi dernier (last Monday) or l?anne?eprochaine (next year) (with the article?s publicationdate as reference point).
A comparative evaluationwith the DEDO system of (Parent et al 2008) showsvery similar performance (for exact match on tagspan and for the value attribute) over the sameevaluation corpus (Table 2).System Prec.
Rec.
F-sc.Match TempEx 84.2 81.8 83.0DEDO 83.0 79.0 81.0Value TempEx 55.0 44.9 49.4DEDO 56.0 45.0 50.0Table 2: Comparative evaluation of the TempEx Taggerfor exact match on tag span and value calculation.The Event Tagger marks up events (<EVENT> tag)and certain relation markers through the applicationof a sequence of rules acting on the local chunk con-text.
The rules eliminate unlikely candidates or tagappropriate ones, based on detailed lexical resourcesand various contextual criteria.
Input is a text pre-processed with POS tags, morphological analysisand chunking (carried out with the Macaon process-5DATE (e.g.
15/01/2001, le 15 janvier 1010, jeudi, demain),TIME (ex.
15h30, midi), DURATION (ex.
trois jours, un an) ouSET (ex.
tous les jours, chaque mardi)ing pipeline (Nasr et al 2010)).
A reliable com-parison with the DEDO system, to our knowledgethe only other system for this task in French, wasunfortunately not possible.
Evaluations were madeon different, yet comparable, corpora, so results aremerely indicative.
For event tagging, our systemscored a precision of 62.5 (62.5 for DEDO), recallof 89.4 (77.7) and an F-score of 75.8 (69.3).
Thereis room for improvement, although the system stillyields significant gains in total annotation time andquality.
An experiment to evaluate the effects of thepre-annotation showed a near halving of annotationtime compared to manual annotation, as well as asignificant reduction of human errors (Bittar, 2010).Unfortunately, it was not possible to reliably com-pare the performance of the Event Tagger with thesimilar module by (Parent et al 2008) (DEDO), toour knowledge the only other system developed forthis task for French.
Evaluations of each systemwere carried out on different, although similar, cor-pora.
Thus, results remain merely indicative.
For thetask of event recognition, our system scored a preci-sion of 62.5 (62.5 for DEDO), recall of 89.4 (77.7)and an F-score of 75.8 (69.3).Manual annotation and validation : after pre-annotation of markables, texts were corrected by 3human annotators (2 per text), using the Callisto6and Tango7 tools, designed for this task.
Figure 1shows the process undergone by each document.The final step of the process is a coherence checkof the temporal graph in each document, carried out6http://callisto.mitre.org/7http://timeml.org/site/tango/tool.html132via application of Allen?s algorithm (Allen, 1983)and graph saturation (Tannier & Muller, 2008).
Us-ing the same method, we found 18 incoherent graphsamong the 183 files of the TB1.2 corpus for English.At this stage, the corpus contained 8 incoherencies,which were all eliminated by hand.
Manually elim-inating incoherencies is an arduous task, and per-forming an online coherence check during annota-tion of relations would be extremely useful in a man-ual annotation tool.
All files were validated againsta DTD, provided with the corpus.5 French TimeBankOur aim for the FTiB is to provide a corpus ofcomparable size to TB1.2 (approx.
61 000 to-kens).
Version 1.0 of FTiB, presented here andmade available online8 in January 2011, representsabout 14 of the target tokens.
Figure 2 shows thatproportions of annotated elements for French aremostly very similar to those in TB1.2.
This sug-gests the annotation guidelines were applied in asimilar way in both corpora and that, for the journal-istic genre, the distributions of the various markedelements are similar in French and English.
By farthe most common relation type in the French corpusis the <TLINK>.
Among these, 1 175 are markedbetween two event arguments (EVENT-EVENT),722 between an event and a temporal expression(EVENT-TIMEX3), and 486 between two temporalexpressions (TIMEX3-TIMEX3).Figure 2: Annotated content of the FTiB and TB1.2.Inter-annotator agreement was measured over theentire FTiB corpus and compared with reportedagreement for TB1.2.9.
F-scores for agreement8Via the INRIA GForge at https://gforge.inria.fr/projects/fr-timebank/.9Available at http://www.timeml.org/site/timebank/documentation-1.2.html Note that fig-'$7( 7,0( '85$7,21 6(7*HQUH7,0(;7\SHFigure 3: Distribution of <TIMEX3> types by sub-genre.&ODVV,B67$7($63(&78$/,B$&7,213(5&(37167$7(02'$/&$86(2&&855(1&(5(3257,1*(&217$,1(5ELRLQWOORFDOQDWORELWVSRUWDQQFigure 4: Distribution of <EVENT> classes by sub-genre.are significantly higher for the French corpus on<EVENT> and <TIMEX3> tag spans than forTB1.2, and very slightly lower for <SIGNAL>.
Fig-ures for tag attributes are higher for TB1.2, as amuch looser metric10 was used for agreement, socomparison is not yet possible.
The same measurewill need to be implemented to afford an accuratecomparison.ures were only calculated for a small subset of the entirecorpus, unlike for the FTiB, for which all data was used.10Agreement for TB1.2 was only calculated over tags withmatching spans and wrong attributes on non-matching spanswere not penalized.
For the FTiB, all tags were considered andall attributes for non-matching tag spans were penalized.133Corpus<TIMEX3> <EVENT> <SIGNAL>Span Attr Span Attr SpanFTiB .89 .86 .86 .85 .75TB 1.2 .83 (.95) .78 (.95) .77Table 3: Inter-annotator agreement (F-scores).Sub-genre and linguistic content : a preliminarystudy showed correlations between the various sub-genres chosen for the corpus and the annotationsin the texts.
For example, Figure 3 shows a highproportion of TIMEs in announcement texts (46%of the corpus total)11, while DURATIONs are in-frequent (2%), but appear in higher proportions innews (21?32%) and sports (13,5%).
DATEs are byfar the most frequently marked (80%), with SETsbeing the least.
In Figure 4, the preponderance ofthe OCCURRENCE class is obvious (62.1% of allevents).
REPORTING is most frequent in local andinternational news.
Announcements stand out yetagain, with the highest number and highest propor-tion of the class EVENT CONTAINER.
These ini-tial observations argue in favor of text sampling toachieve a diversity of temporal information in a cor-pus and suggest such features may prove useful intext classification.6 ConclusionOur experiences show ISO-TimeML is a stable lan-guage and, with some modification, is applicableto French.
The FTiB is a valuable resource thatwill surely stimulate development and evaluation ofFrench temporal processing systems, providing es-sential data for training machine learning systems.An initial survey of the data suggests temporal in-formation may be useful for text classification.
Ourmethodology is time-efficient and ensures data qual-ity and usability (coherence).
It could be adopted tocreate temporally annotated corpora for other lan-guages as well as being adapted and generalized toother annotation tasks.11This is particularly significant given the low proportion ofthe total corpus tokens in this sub-genre.ReferencesISO 2008.
ISO DIS 24617-1: 2008 Language ResourceManagement - Semantic Annotation Framework - Part 1:Time and Events.
International Organization for Stan-dardization, Geneva, Switzerland.Andre?
Bittar 2010.
Building a TimeBank for French:a Reference Corpus Annotated According to the ISO-TimeML Standard.. PhD thesis.
Universite?
Paris Diderot,Paris, France.Andre?
Bittar 2009.
Annotation of Temporal Informa-tion in French Texts.. Computational Linguistics in theNetherlands (CLIN 19).Se?bastien Paumier 2008.
Unitex 2.0 User Manual..Universite?
Paris Est Marne-la-Valle?e, Marne-la-Valle?e,France.Gabriel Parent, Michel Gagnon and Philippe Muller2008.
Annotation d?expressions temporelles etd?e?ve?nements en franc?ais.
Actes de TALN 2008.Avignon, France.Alexis Nasr, Fre?de?ric Be?chet and Jean-Franc?ois Rey2010.
MACAON : Une cha?
?ne linguistique pour le trait-meent de graphes de mots.
Actes de TALN 2010.
Mon-treal, Canada.James F. Allen.
1983.
Maintaining Knowledge AboutTemporal Intervals.
Communications of the ACM.
26:11832-843.Xavier Tannier and Philippe Muller 2008.
Evalua-tion Metrics for Automatic Temporal Annotation of Texts.Proceedings of the Sixth International Language Re-sources and Evaluation (LREC?08) Marrakech, Mo-rocco.Frank Robert Palmer 1986.
Mood and Modality Cam-bridge University Press Cambridge, UK.James Pustejovsky, Marc Verhagen, Roser Saur?
?, Jes-sica Littman, Robert Gaizauskas, Graham Katz, InderjeetMani, Robert Knippen and Andrea Setzer 2006.
Time-Bank 1.2 Linguistic Data ConsortiumNabil Hathout, Fiammetta Namer and Georgette Dal2002.
An Experimental Constructional Database: TheMorTAL Project Many Morphologies 178?209 PaulBoucher ed.
Somerville, Mass., USAZeno Vendler 1967 Linguistics and Philosophy CornellUniversity Press Ithaca, NY, USAMaurice Gross 2002 Les de?terminants nume?raux, unexemple : les dates horaires Langages 145 LarousseParis, France134
