Proceedings of the ACL-HLT 2011 Student Session, pages 111?116,Portland, OR, USA 19-24 June 2011. c?2011 Association for Computational LinguisticsSocial Network Extraction from Texts: A Thesis ProposalApoorv AgarwalDepartment of Computer ScienceColumbia Universityapoorv@cs.columbia.eduAbstractIn my thesis, I propose to build a system thatwould enable extraction of social interactionsfrom texts.
To date I have defined a compre-hensive set of social events and built a prelim-inary system that extracts social events fromnews articles.
I plan to improve the perfor-mance of my current system by incorporatingsemantic information.
Using domain adapta-tion techniques, I propose to apply my sys-tem to a wide range of genres.
By extractinglinguistic constructs relevant to social interac-tions, I will be able to empirically analyze dif-ferent kinds of linguistic constructs that peo-ple use to express social interactions.
Lastly, Iwill attempt to make convolution kernels morescalable and interpretable.1 IntroductionLanguage is the primary tool that people use for es-tablishing, maintaining and expressing social rela-tions.
This makes language the real carrier of socialnetworks.
The overall goal of my thesis is to build asystem that automatically extracts a social networkfrom raw texts such as literary texts, emails, blogcomments and news articles.
I take a ?social net-work?
to be a network consisting of individual hu-man beings and groups of human beings who areconnected to each other through various relation-ships by the virtue of participating in social events.I define social events to be events that occur be-tween people where at least one person is awareof the other and of the event taking place.
For ex-ample, in the sentence John talks to Mary, entitiesJohn and Mary are aware of each other and of thetalking event.
In the sentence John thinks Mary isgreat, only John is aware of Mary and the event isthe thinking event.
My thesis will introduce a novelway of constructing networks by analyzing text tocapture such interactions or events.Motivation: Typically researchers construct a so-cial network from various forms of electronic in-teraction records like self-declared friendship links,sender-receiver email links and phone logs etc.
Theyignore a vastly rich network present in the contentof such sources.
Secondly, many rich sources ofsocial networks remain untouched simply becausethere is no meta-data associated with them (literarytexts, new stories, historical texts).
By providing amethodology for analyzing language to extract in-teraction links between people, my work will over-come both these limitations.
Moreover, by empiri-cally analyzing large corpora of text from differentgenres, my work will aid in formulating a compre-hensive linguistic theory about the types of linguisticconstructs people often use to interact and expresstheir social interactions with others.
In the follow-ing paragraphs I will explicate these impacts.Impact on current SNA applications: Someof the current social network analysis (SNA) ap-plications that utilize interaction meta-data to con-struct the underlying social network are discussedby Domingos and Richardson (2003), Kempe et al(2003), He et al (2006), Rowe et al (2007), Lin-damood et al (2009), Zheleva and Getoor (2009).But meta-data captures only part of all the interac-tions in which people participate.
There is a vastlyrich network present in text such as the content ofemails, comment threads on online social networks,transcribed phone calls.
My work will enrich the111social network that SNA community currently usesby complementing it with the finer interaction link-ages present in text.
For example, Rowe et al (2007)use the sender-receiver email links to connect peo-ple in the Enron email corpus.
Using this network,they predict the organizational hierarchy of the En-ron Corporation.
Their social network analysis forcalculating centrality measure of people does nottake into account interactions that people talk aboutin the content of emails.
Such linkages are relevantto the task for two reasons.
First, people talk abouttheir interactions with other people in the content ofemails.
By ignoring these interaction linkages, theunderlying communication network used by Roweet al (2007) to calculate various features is incom-plete.
Second, sender-receiver email links only rep-resent ?who talks to whom?.
They do not represent?who talks about whom to whom.?
This later infor-mation seems to be crucial to the task presumablybecause people at the lower organizational hierarchyare more likely to talk about people higher in the hi-erarchy.
My work will enable extraction of thesemissing linkages and hence offers the potential toimprove the performance of currently used SNA al-gorithms.
By capturing alternate forms of commu-nications, my system will also overcome a knownlimitation of the Enron email corpus that a signifi-cant number of emails were lost at the time of datacreation (Carenini et al, 2005).Impact on study of literary and journalistictexts: Sources of social networks that are primar-ily textual in nature such as literary texts, historicaltexts, or news articles are currently under-utilizedfor social network analysis.
In fact, to the best ofmy knowledge, there is no formal comprehensivecategorization of social interactions.
An early effortto illustrate the importance of such linkages is byMoretti (2005).
In his book, Graphs, Maps, Trees:Abstract Models for a Literary History, Morettipresents interesting insights into a novel by lookingat its interaction graph.
He notes that his modelsare incomplete because they neither have a notionof weight (number of times two characters interact)nor a notion of direction (mutual or one-directional).There has been recent work that partially addressesthese concerns (Elson et al, 2010; Celikyilmaz etal., 2010).
They only extract mutual interactionsthat are signaled by quoted speech.
My thesis willgo beyond quoted speech and will extract interac-tions signaled by any linguistic means, in particularverbs of social interaction.
Moreover, my researchwill not only enable extraction of mutual linkages(?who talks to whom? )
but also of one-directionallinkages (?who talks about whom?).
This will giverise to new applications such as characterization ofliterary texts based on the type of social network thatunderlies the narrative.
Moreover, analyses of largeamounts of related text such as decades of news ar-ticles or historical texts will become possible.
Bylooking at the overall social structure the analyst orscientist will get a summary of the key players andtheir interactions with each other and the rest of net-work.Impact on Linguistics: To the best of my knowl-edge, there is no cognitive or linguistic theory thatexplains how people use language to express socialinteractions.
A system that detects lexical items andsyntactic constructions that realize interactions andthen classifies them into one of the categories, I de-fine in Section 2, has the potential to provide lin-guists with empirical data to formulate such a the-ory.
For example, the notion of social interactionscould be added to the FrameNet resource (Baker andFillmore, 1998) which is based on frame semantics.FrameNet records possible semantic frames for lexi-cal items.
Frames describe lexical meaning by speci-fying a set of frame elements, which are participantsin a typical event or state of affairs expressed by theframe.
It provides lexicographic example annota-tions that illustrate how frames and frame elementscan be realized by syntactic constructions.
My cate-gorization of social events can be incorporated intoFrameNet by adding new frames for social eventsto the frame hierarchy.
The data I collect usingthe system can provide example sentenctes for theseframes.
Linguists can use this data to make gen-eralizations about linguistic constructions that real-ize social interactions frames.
For example, a pos-sible generalization could be that transitive verbs inwhich both subject and object are people, frequentlyexpress a social event.
In addition, it would be in-teresting to see what kind social interactions occurin different text genres and if they are realized dif-ferently.
For example, in a news corpus we hardlyfound expressions of non-verbal mutual interactions(like eye-contact) while these are frequent in fiction112texts like Alice in Wonderland.2 Work to dateSo far, I have defined a comprehensive set of socialevents and have acquired reliable annotations on awell-known news corpus.
I have built a preliminarysystem that extracts social events from news articles.I will now expand on each of these in the followingparagraphs.Meaning of social events: A text can describea social network in two ways: explicitly, by stat-ing the type of relationship between two individuals(e.g.
Mary is John?s wife), or implicitly, by describ-ing an event which initiates or perpetuates a socialrelationship (e.g.
John talked to Mary).
I call thelater types of events ?social events?
(Agarwal et al,2010).
I defined two broad types of social events:interaction, in which both parties are aware of eachother and of the social event, e.g., a conversation,and observation, in which only one party is awareof the other and of the interaction, e.g., thinking ofor talking about someone.
For example, sentence1, contains two distinct social events: interaction:Toujan was informed by the committee, and observa-tion: Toujan is talking about the committee.
I havealso defined sub-categories for each of these broadcategories based on physical proximity, verbal andnon-verbal interactions.
For details and examples ofthese sub-categories please refer to Agarwal et al(2010)(1) [Toujan Faisal], 54, {said} [she] was{informed} of the refusal by an [InteriorMinistry committee] overseeing electionpreparations.As a pilot test to see if creating a social networkbased on social events can give insight into the so-cial structures of a story, I manually annotated ashort version of Alice in Wonderland.
On the man-ually extracted network, I ran social network anal-ysis algorithms to answer questions like: who arethe most influential characters in the story, whichcharacters have the same social roles and positions.The most influential characters in the story were de-tected correctly.
Another finding was that charactersappearing in the same scene like Dodo, Lory, Ea-glet, Mouse and Duck were assigned the same socialroles and positions.
This pointed out the possibilityof using my method to identify separate scenes orsub-plots in a narrative, which is crucial for a betterunderstanding of the text under investigation.Motivated by this pilot test I decided to anno-tate social events on the Automatic Content Extrac-tion (ACE) dataset (Doddington et al, 2004), a wellknown news corpus.
My annotations extend previ-ous annotations for entities, relations and events thatare present in the 2005 version of the corpus.
My an-notations revealed that about 80% of the times, en-tities mentioned together in the same sentence werenot linked with any social event.
Therefore, a sim-ple heuristic of connecting entities that are presentin the same sentence with a link will not reveal ameaningful network.
Hence I saw a need for a moresophisticated analysis.Extraction of social events: To perform such ananalysis, I built models for two tasks: social eventdetection and social event classification (Agarwaland Rambow, 2010).
Both were formulated as bi-nary tasks: the first one being about detecting ex-istence of a social event between a pair of entitiesin a sentence and the second one being about dif-ferentiating between the interaction and observationtype events (given there is an event between the en-tities).
I used tree kernels on structures derived fromphrase structure trees and dependency trees in con-junction with Support Vector Machines (SVMs) tosolve the tasks.
For the design of structures and typeof kernel, I took motivation from a system proposedby Nguyen et al (2009) which is a state-of-the-artsystem for relation extraction.
I tried all the kernelsand their combinations proposed by Nguyen et al(2009).
I used syntactic and semantic insights to de-vise a new structure derived from dependency treesand showed that this plays a role in achieving thebest performance for both social event detection andclassification tasks.
The reason for choosing suchrepresentations is motivated by extensive studiesabout the regular relation between verb alternationsand meaning components (Levin, 1993; Schuler,2005).
This regularity provides a useful generaliza-tion that helps to overcome lexical sparseness.
How-ever, in order to exploit such regularities, there is aneed to have access to a representation which makesthe predicate-argument structure clear.
Dependencyrepresentations do this.
Phrase structure represen-tations also represent predicate-argument structure,113but in an indirect way through the structural config-urations.
These experiments showed that as a resultof how language expresses the relevant information,dependency-based structures are best suited for en-coding this information.
Furthermore, because ofthe complexity of the task, a combination of phrase-based structures and dependency-based structuresperform the best.
To my surprise, the system per-formed extremely well on a seemingly hard task ofdifferentiating between interaction and observationtype social events.
This result showed that there aresignificant clues in the lexical and syntactic struc-tures that help in differentiating mutual and one-directional interactions.3 Future WorkCurrently I am working on incorporating semanticresources to improve the performance of my prelim-inary system.
I will work on making convolutionkernels scalable and interpretable.
These two stepswill meet my goal of building a system that will ex-tract social networks from news articles.
My nextstep will be to survey and incorporate domain adap-tation techniques that will allow me port my systemto other genres like literary and historical texts, blogcomments, emails etc.
These steps will allow me toextract social networks from a wide range of textualdata.
At the same time I will be able to empiricallyanalyze the types of linguistic patterns, both lexi-cal and syntactic, that perpetuate social interactions.Now I will expand on the aforementioned future di-rections.Adding semantic information: Currently I amexploring linguistically motivated enhancements ofdependency and phrase structure trees to formulatenew kernels.
Specifically, I am exploring ways of in-corporating semantic information from VerbNet andFrameNet.
This will help me reduce data sparse-ness and thus improve my current system.
I aminterested in modeling classes of events which arecharacterized by the cognitive states of participants?who is aware of whom.
The predicate-argumentstructure of verbs can encode much of this infor-mation very efficiently, and classes of verbs expresstheir predicate-argument structure in similar ways.Levin?s verb classes, and Palmer?s VerbNet (Levin,1993; Schuler, 2005), are based on syntactic simi-larity between verbs: two verbs are in the same classif and only if they can realize their arguments in thesame syntactic patterns.
By the Levin Hypothesis,this is because they share meaning elements, andmeaning and syntactic realizations of arguments arerelated.
However, this does not mean that verbs inthe same Levin or VerbNet class are synonyms; forexample, to deliberate and to play are both in Verb-Net class meet-36.3-1.
But from a social event per-spective, I am not interested in exact synonymy, andin fact it is quite possible that what I am interestedin (awareness of the interaction by the event partici-pants) is the same among verbs of the same VerbNetclass.
In this case, VerbNet will provide a useful ab-straction.
Future work will also explore FrameNet,which provides a different type of semantic abstrac-tion and explicit semantic relations that are not di-rectly based on syntactic realizations.Scaling convolution kernels: Convolution ker-nels, first proposed by Haussler (1999), are a con-venient way of ?naturally?
combining a variety offeatures without having to do fine-grained featureengineering.
Collins and Duffy (2002) presented away of successfully using them for NLP tasks suchas parsing and tagging.
Since then they have beenused for various NLP tasks such as relation extrac-tion (Zelenko et al, 2002; Culotta and Jeffrey, 2004;Nguyen et al, 2009), semantic role labeling (Mos-chitti et al, 2008), question-answer classification(Moschitti et al, 2007) etc.
Convolution kernels cal-culate the similarity between two objects, like treesor strings, by a recursive calculation over the ?parts?
(substrings, subtrees) of objects.
This calculationis usually made computationally efficient by usingdynamic programming.
But there are two limita-tions: 1) the computation is still quadratic and henceslow and 2) the features (or parts) that are given highweights at the time of learning remain inaccessiblei.e.
interpretability of the model becomes difficult.One direction I will explore to make convolutionkernels more scalable is the following: The deci-sion function for the classifier (SVM in dual form)is given in equation 1 (Burges, 1998, Eq 61).
Inthis equation, yi denotes the class of the ith supportvector (si), ?i denotes the Lagrange multiplier ofsi, K(si, x) denotes the kernel similarity between siand a test example x, b denotes the bias.
The kerneldefinition proposed by Collins and Duffy (2002) isgiven in equation 2, where hs(T ) is the number of114times the sth subtree appears in tree T .
The kernelfunction K(T1, T2) therefore calculates the similar-ity between trees T1 and T2 by counting the commonsubtrees in them.
By combining equations 1 and 2I get equation 3 which can be re-written as equation4.f(x) =Ns?i=1?iyiK(si, x) + b (1)K(T1, T2) =?shs(T1)hs(T2) (2)f(x) =Ns?i=1?iyi?shs(si)hs(x) (3)f(x) =?sNs?i=1?iyihs(si)hs(x) (4)The motivation for exchanging these summationsigns is that the contribution of larger subtrees tothe kernel similarity is strictly less than the contri-bution of the smaller subtrees.
I will investigate thepossibility of approximating the decision function ofSVM without having to compare all subtrees, in par-ticular large subtrees.
I will also investigate if thissummation can be calculated in parallel to make thecalculation more scalable.
Pelossof and Ying (2010)have done recent work on speeding up the Percep-tron by stopping the evaluation of features at an earlystage if they have high confidence that the examplewill be classified correctly.
Another relevant work toimprove the scalability of linear classifiers is due toClarkson et al (2010).
However, to the best of myknowledge, there is no work that addresses approxi-mation of kernel evaluation for convolution kernels.Interpretability of convolution kernels: Asmentioned in the previous paragraph, another dis-advantage of using convolution kernels is that inter-pretability of a model is difficult.
Recently, Pighinand Moschitti (2009) proposed an algorithm to lin-earize convolution kernels.
They show that by ef-ficiently encoding the ?relevant?
fragments gener-ated by tree kernels, it is possible to get insight intothe substructures that were given high weights at thetime of learning a model.
But their system currentlyreturns thousands of such fragments.
I will inves-tigate if there is a way of summarizing these frag-ments into a meaningful set of syntactic and lexicalclasses.
By doing so I will be able to empirically seewhat types of linguistic constructs are used by peo-ple to express different types of social interactionsthus aiding in formulating a theory of how peopleexpress social interactions.Domain adaptation: To be able to extract socialnetworks from literary and historical texts, I will ex-plore domain adaptation techniques.
A notable workin this direction is by Daume?
III (2007).
This work isespecially useful for me because Daume?
III presentsa straightforward kernelized version of his domainadaptation approach which readily fits the machinelearning paradigm I am using for my problem.
I willexplore the literature to see if better domain adap-tation techniques have been suggested since then.Domain adaptation will conclude my overall goal ofcreating a system that can extract social networksfrom a wide variety of texts.
I will then attempt toextract social networks from the increasing amountof text that is becoming machine readable.Sentiment Analysis:1 A natural step to try once Ihave linkages associated with snippets of text is sen-timent analysis.
I will use my previous work (Agar-wal et al, 2009) on contextual phrase-level senti-ment analysis to analyze snippets of text and addpolarity to social event linkages.
Sentiment analy-sis will make the social network representation evenricher by indicating if people are connected withpositive, negative or neutral sentiments.
This willnot only give us information about the protagonistsand antagonists in the text but will also affect theanalysis of flow of information through the network.AcknowledgmentsThis work was funded by NSF grant IIS-0713548.
Iwould like to thank Dr. Owen Rambow and DanielBauer for useful discussions and feedback.ReferencesApoorv Agarwal and Owen Rambow.
2010.
Automaticdetection and classification of social events.
In Pro-ceedings of the 2010 Conference on Empirical Meth-ods in Natural Language Processing.Apoorv Agarwal, Fadi Biadsy, and Kathleen Mckeown.2009.
Contextual phrase-level polarity analysis using1I do not mention sentiment analysis anywhere else in myproposal since I will simply use my earlier work.115lexical affect scoring and syntactic n-grams.
Proceed-ings of the 12th Conference of the European Chapterof the ACL (EACL 2009), pages 24?32.Apoorv Agarwal, Owen C. Rambow, and Rebecca J. Pas-sonneau.
2010.
Annotation scheme for social networkextraction from text.
In Proceedings of the Fourth Lin-guistic Annotation Workshop.C.
Baker and C. Fillmore.
1998.
The berkeley framenetproject.
Proceedings of the 17th international confer-ence on Computational linguistics, 1.Chris Burges.
1998.
A tutorial on support vectormachines for pattern recognition.
Data mining andknowledge discovery.G.
Carenini, R. T. Ng, and X. Zhou.
2005.
Scalable dis-covery of hidden emails from large folders.
Proceed-ing of the eleventh ACM SIGKDD international con-ference on Knowledge discovery in data mining, pages544?549.Asli Celikyilmaz, Dilek Hakkani-Tur, Hua He, GregKondrak, and Denilson Barbosa.
2010.
The actor-topic model for extracting social networks in literarynarrative.
NIPS Workshop: Machine Learning for So-cial Computing.K.
L. Clarkson, E. Hazan, and D. P. Woodruff.
2010.Sublinear optimization for machine learning.
51st An-nual IEEE Symposium on Foundations of ComputerScience, pages 449 ?457.M.
Collins and N. Duffy.
2002.
Convolution kernels fornatural language.
In Advances in neural informationprocessing systems.Aron Culotta and Sorensen Jeffrey.
2004.
Dependencytree kernels for relation extraction.
In Proceedings ofthe 42ndMeeting of the Association for ComputationalLinguistics (ACL?04), Main Volume, pages 423?429,Barcelona, Spain, July.G.
Doddington, A. Mitchell, M. Przybocki, L. Ramshaw,S.
Strassel, and R. Weischedel.
2004.
The automaticcontent extraction (ace) program?tasks, data, and eval-uation.
LREC, pages 837?840.P.
Domingos and M. Richardson.
2003.
Mining the net-work value of customers.
In Proceedings of the 7th In-ternational Conference on Knowledge Discovery andData Mining, pages 57?66.David K. Elson, Nicholas Dames, and Kathleen R. McK-eown.
2010.
Extracting social networks from literaryfiction.
Proceedings of the 48th Annual Meeting ofthe Association for Computational Linguistics, pages138?147.David Haussler.
1999.
Convolution kernels on discretestructures.
Technical report, University of Californiaat Santa Cruz.Jianming He, Wesley W. Chu, and Zhenyu (Victor) Liu.2006.
Inferring privacy information from social net-works.
Intelligence and Security Informatics, pages154?165.Hal Daume III.
2007.
Frustratingly easy domain adapta-tion.
Annual Meeting-Association For ComputationalLinguistics.D.
Kempe, J. Kleinberg, and E. Tardos.
2003.
Maximiz-ing the spread of influence through a social network.Proceedings of the ninth ACM SIGKDD internationalconference on Knowledge discovery and data mining,pages 137?146.Beth Levin.
1993.
English verb classes and alterna-tions: A preliminary investigation.
The University ofChicago Press.J.
Lindamood, R. Heatherly, M. Kantarcioglu, andB.
Thuraisingham.
2009.
Inferring private informa-tion using social network dataset.
WWW.Franco Moretti.
2005.
Graphs, Maps, Trees: AbstractModels for a Literary History.
Verso.A.
Moschitti, S. Quarteroni, and R. Basili.
2007.
Ex-ploiting syntactic and shallow semantic kernels forquestion answer classification.
Proceedings of the45th Conference of the Association for ComputationalLinguistics (ACL).A.
Moschitti, D. Pighin, and R. Basili.
2008.
Tree ker-nels for semantic role labeling.
Computational Lin-guistics, 34.Truc-Vien T. Nguyen, Alessandro Moschitti, andGiuseppe Riccardi.
2009.
Convolution kernels onconstituent, dependency and sequential structures forrelation extraction.
Conference on Empirical Methodsin Natural Language Processing.Raphael Pelossof and Zhiliang Ying.
2010.
The attentiveperceptron.
CoRR, abs/1009.5972.D.
Pighin and A. Moschitti.
2009.
Reverse engineeringof tree kernel feature spaces.
Proceedings of the Con-ference on EMNLP, pages 111?120.Ryan Rowe, German Creamer, Shlomo Hershkop, andSalvatore J Stolfo.
2007.
Automated social hierar-chy detection through email network analysis.
Pro-ceedings of the 9th WebKDD and 1st SNA-KDD 2007workshop on Web mining and social network analysis,pages 109?117.Karin Kipper Schuler.
2005.
Verbnet: a broad-coverage, comprehensive verb lexicon.
Ph.D. thesis,University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA, USA.AAI3179808.D.
Zelenko, C. Aone, and A. Richardella.
2002.
Kernelmethods for relation extraction.
In Proceedings of theEMNLP.Elena Zheleva and Lise Getoor.
2009.
To join or notto join: the illusion of privacy in social networks withmixed public and private user profiles.
Proceedings ofthe 18th international conference on World wide web,pages 531?540.116
