Proceedings of the 49th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics:shortpapers, pages 113?117,Portland, Oregon, June 19-24, 2011. c?2011 Association for Computational LinguisticsEntrainment in Speech Preceding BackchannelsRivka LevitanDept.
of Computer ScienceColumbia UniversityNew York, NY 10027, USArlevitan@cs.columbia.eduAgust?
?n GravanoDC-FCEyN & LISUniversidad de Buenos AiresBuenos Aires, Argentinagravano@dc.uba.arJulia HirschbergDept.
of Computer ScienceColumbia UniversityNew York, NY 10027, USAjulia@cs.columbia.eduAbstractIn conversation, when speech is followed bya backchannel, evidence of continued engage-ment by one?s dialogue partner, that speechdisplays a combination of cues that appear tosignal to one?s interlocutor that a backchan-nel is appropriate.
We term these cues back-channel-preceding cues (BPC)s, and examinethe Columbia Games Corpus for evidence ofentrainment on such cues.
Entrainment, thephenomenon of dialogue partners becomingmore similar to each other, is widely believedto be crucial to conversation quality and suc-cess.
Our results show that speaking partnersentrain on BPCs; that is, they tend to use simi-lar sets of BPCs; this similarity increases overthe course of a dialogue; and this similarity isassociated with measures of dialogue coordi-nation and task success.1 IntroductionIn conversation, dialogue partners often becomemore similar to each other.
This phenomenon,known in the literature as entrainment, alignment,accommodation, or adaptation has been found tooccur along many acoustic, prosodic, syntactic andlexical dimensions in both human-human interac-tions (Brennan and Clark, 1996; Coulston et al,2002; Reitter et al, 2006; Ward and Litman,2007; Niederhoffer and Pennebaker, 2002; Ward andMamidipally, 2008; Buder et al, 2010) and human-computer interactions (Brennan, 1996; Bell et al,2000; Stoyanchev and Stent, 2009; Bell et al, 2003)and has been associated with dialogue success andnaturalness (Pickering and Garrod, 2004; Goleman,2006; Nenkova et al, 2008).
That is, interlocutorswho entrain achieve better communication.
How-ever, the question of how best to measure this phe-nomenon has not been well established.
Most re-search has examined similarity of behavior over aconversation, or has compared similarity in earlyand later phases of a conversation; more recent workhas proposed new metrics of synchrony and conver-gence (Edlund et al, 2009) and measures of similar-ity at a more local level (Heldner et al, 2010).While a number of dimensions of potential en-trainment have been studied in the literature, en-trainment in turn-taking behaviors has received lit-tle attention.
In this paper we examine entrainmentin a novel turn-taking dimension: backchannel-preceding cues (BPC)s.1 Backchannels are shortsegments of speech uttered to signal continued in-terest and understanding without taking the floor(Schegloff, 1982).
In a study of the ColumbiaGames Corpus, Gravano and Hirschberg (2009;2011) identify five speech phenomena that aresignificantly correlated with speech followed bybackchannels.
However, they also note that indi-vidual speakers produced different combinations ofthese cues and varied the way cues were expressed.In our work, we look for evidence that speaker pairsnegotiate the choice of such cues and their realiza-tions in a conversation ?
that is, they entrain to oneanother in their choice and production of such cues.We test for evidence both at the global and at thelocal level.1Prior studies termed cues that precede backchannels, back-channel-inviting cues.
To avoid suggesting that such cues are aspeaker?s conscious decision, we adopt a more neutral term.113In Section 2, we describe the Columbia GamesCorpus, on which the current analysis was con-ducted.
In Section 3, we present three measures ofBPC entrainment.
In Section 4, we further show thattwo of these measures also correlate with dialoguecoordination and task success.2 The Columbia Games CorpusThe Columbia Games Corpus is a collection of 12spontaneous dyadic conversations elicited from na-tive speakers of Standard American English.
13 peo-ple participated in the collection of the corpus.
11participated in two sessions, each time with a dif-ferent partner.
Subjects were separated by a curtainto ensure that all communication was verbal.
Theyplayed a series of computer games requiring collab-oration in order to achieve a high score.The corpus consists of 9h 8m of speech.
It isorthographically transcribed and annotated for var-ious types of turn-taking behavior, including smoothswitches (cases in which one speaker completes herturn and another speaker takes the floor), interrup-tions (cases in which one speaker breaks in, leavingthe interlocutor?s turn incomplete), and backchan-nels.
There are 5641 exchanges in the corpus; ofthese, approximately 58% are smooth switches, 2%are interruptions, and 11% are backchannels.
Otherturn types include overlaps and pause interruptions;a full description of the Columbia Games Corpus?annotation for turn-taking behavior can be found in(Gravano and Hirschberg, 2011).3 Evidence of entrainmentGravano and Hirschberg (2009; 2011) identify fivecues that tend to be present in speech precedingbackchannels.
These cues, and the features thatmodel them, are listed in Table 1.
The likelihoodthat a segment of speech will be followed by abackchannel increases quadratically with the num-ber of cues present in the speech.
However, theynote that individual speakers may display differentcombinations of cues.
Furthermore, the realizationof a cue may differ from speaker to speaker.
We hy-pothesize that speaker pairs adopt a common set ofcues to which each will respond with a backchan-nel.
We look for evidence for this hypothesis us-ing three different measures of entrainment.
Two ofCue FeatureIntonation pitch slope over the IPU-final 200 and 300 msPitch mean pitch over the final500 and 1000 msIntensity mean intensity over thefinal 500 and 1000 msDuration IPU duration in secondsand word countVoice quality NHR over the final 500and 1000 msTable 1: Features modeling each of the five cues.these measures capture entrainment globally, overthe course of an entire dialogue, while the thirdlooks at entrainment on a local level.
The unit ofanalysis we employ for each experiment is an inter-pausal unit (IPU), defined as a pause-free segmentof speech from a single speaker, where pause is de-fined as a silence of 50ms or more from the samespeaker.
We term consecutive pairs of IPUs froma single speaker holds, and contrast hold-precedingIPUs with backchannel-preceding IPUs to isolatecues that are significant in preceding backchannels.That is, when a speaker pauses without giving upthe turn, which IPUs are followed by backchannelsand which are not?
We consider a speaker to usea certain BPC if, for any of the features model-ing that cue, the difference between backchannel-preceding IPUs and hold-preceding IPUs is signif-icant (ANOVA, p < 0.05).3.1 Entrainment measure 1: Common cuesFor our first entrainment metric, we measure thesimilarity of two speakers?
cue sets by simply count-ing the number of cues that they have in commonover the entire conversation.
We hypothesize thatspeaker pairs will use similar sets of cues.The speakers in our corpus each displayed 0 to 5of the BPCs described in Table 1 (mean = 2.17).
Thenumber of cues speaker pairs had in common rangedfrom 0 to 4 (out of a maximum of 5).
Let S1 and S2be two speakers in a given dialogue, and n1,2 thenumber of BPCs they had in common.
Let alo n1,?and n?,2 be the mean number of cues S1 and S2 hadin common with all other speakers in the corpus notpartnered with them in any session.
For all 12 dia-114logues in the corpus, we pair n1,2 both with n1,?
andwith n?,2, and run a paired t-test.
The results indi-cate that, on average, the speakers had significantlymore cues in common with their interlocutors thanwith other speakers in the corpus (t = 2.1, df = 23,p < 0.05).These findings support our hypothesis that speak-er pairs negotiate common sets of cues, and suggestthat, like other aspects of conversation, speaker vari-ation in use of BPCs is not simply an expression ofpersonal behavior, but is at least partially the resultof coordination with a conversational partner.3.2 Entrainment measure 2: BPC realizationWith our second measure, we look for evidence thatthe speakers?
actual values for the cue features aresimilar: that not only do they alter their productionof similar feature sets when preceding a backchan-nel, they also alter their productions in similar ways.We measure how similarly two speakers S1 andS2 in a conversation realize a BPC as follows:First, we compute the difference (df1,2) between bothspeakers for the mean value of a feature f overall backchannel-preceding IPUs.
Second, we com-pute the same difference between each of S1 and S2and the averaged values of all other speakers in thecorpus who are not partnered with that speaker inany session (df1,?
and df?,2).
Finally, if for any fea-ture f modeling a given cue, it holds that df1,2 <min(df1,?, df?,2), we say that that session exhibitsmutual entrainment on that cue.Eleven out of 12 sessions exhibit mutual entrain-ment on pitch and intensity, 9 exhibit mutual entrain-ment on voice quality, 8 on intonation, and 7 on du-ration.
Interestingly, the only session not entrain-ing on intensity is the only session not entrainingon pitch, but the relationships between the differenttypes of entrainment is not readily observable.For each of the 10 features associated withbackchannel invitation, we compare the differencesbetween conversational partners (df1,2) and the aver-aged differences between each speaker and the otherspeakers in the corpus (df1,?
and df?,2).
Paired t-tests(Table 2) show that the differences in intensity, pitchand voice quality in backchannel-preceding IPUsare smaller between conversational partners than be-tween speakers and their non-partners in the corpus.Feature t df p-value Sig.Intensity 500 -4.73 23 9.09e-05 *Intensity 1000 -2.80 23 0.01 *Pitch 500 -3.38 23 0.002 *Pitch 1000 -3.28 23 0.003 *Pitch slope 200 -1.77 23 0.09 .Pitch slope 300 -0.93 23 N.S.Duration 0.50 23 N.S.# Words 1.39 23 N.S.NHR 500 -2.00 23 0.06 .NHR 1000 -2.30 23 0.03 *Table 2: T -tests between partners and their non-partnersin the corpus.The differences between interlocutor and theirnon-partners in features modeling pitch show thatthere is no single ?optimal?
value for a pitch levelthat precedes a backchannel; this value is coordi-nated between partners on a pair-by-pair basis.
Sim-ilarly, while varying intensity or voice quality maybe considered a universal cue for a backchannel, thespecific values of the production appear to be a mat-ter of coordination between individual speaker pairs.While some views of entrainment hold that coor-dination takes place at the very beginning of a dia-logue, others hypothesize that coordination contin-ues to improve over the course of the conversation.T -tests for difference of means show that indeedthe differences between conversational partners inmean pitch and intensity in the final 1000 millisec-onds of backchannel-preceding IPUs are smaller inthe second half of the conversation than in the first(t = 3.44, 2.17; df = 23; p < 0.05, 0.01), indicat-ing that entrainment in this dimension is an ongoingprocess that results in closer alignment after the in-terlocutors have been speaking for some time.3.3 Measure 3: Local BPC entrainmentMeasures 1 and 2 capture global entrainment andcan be used to characterize an entire dialogue withrespect to entrainment.
We now look for evidenceto support the hypothesis that a speaker?s realizationof BPCs influences how her interlocutor producesBPCs.
To capture this, we compile a list of pairsof backchannel-preceding IPUs, in which the secondmember of each pair follows the first in the conver-115sation and is produced by a different speaker.
Foreach feature, we calculate the Pearson?s correlationbetween acoustic variables extracted from the firstelement of each pair and the second.The correlations for mean pitch and intensity aresignificant (r = 0.3, two-sided t-test: p < 0.05, inboth cases).
Other correlations are not significant.These results suggest that entrainment on pitch andintensity at least is a localized phenomenon.
Spokendialogue systems may exploit this information, mod-ifying their output to invite a backchannel similar tothe user?s own previous backchannel invitation.4 Correlation with dialogue coordinationand task successEntrainment is widely believed to be crucial to dia-logue coordination.
In the specific case of BPC en-trainment, it seems intuitive that some consensus onBPCs should be integral to the successful coordina-tion of a conversation.
Long latencies (periods of si-lence) before backchannels can be considered a signof poor coordination, as when a speaker is waitingfor an indication that his partner is still attending,and the partner is slow to realize this.
Similarly,interruptions signal poor coordination, as when aspeaker has not finished what he has to say, but hispartner thinks it is her turn to speak.
We thus usemean backchannel latency and proportion of inter-ruptions as measures of coordination of whole ses-sions.
We use the combined score of the games thesubjects played as a measure of task success.
Wecorrelate all three with our two global entrainmentscores and report correlation coefficients in Table 3.Entrain.
Success/coord.
r p-valuemeasure measure1 Latency -0.33 0.06Interruptions -0.50 0.01Score 0.22 N.S.2 Latency -0.61 0.002Interruptions -0.22 N.S.Score 0.72 6.9e-05Table 3: Correlations with success and coordination.Our first metric for identifying entrainment, Mea-sure 1, the number of cues the speaker pair has incommon, is negatively correlated with mean latencyand proportion of interruptions, our two measures ofpoor coordination.
Its correlation with score, thoughnot significant, is positive.
So, more entrainment inBPCs under Measure 1 means smaller latency beforebackchannels and fewer interruptions, while thereis a tendency for such entrainment to be associatedwith higher scores.Our second entrainment metric, Measure 2, cap-tures the similarities between speaker means of the10 features associated with BPCs.
To test correla-tions of this measure with task success, we collapsethe ten features into a single measure by taking thenegated Euclidean distance between each speakerpair?s 2 vectors of means; this measure tells us howclose these speakers are across all features exam-ined.
Under this analysis, we find that Measure 2is negatively correlated with mean latency and pos-itively correlated with score.
Both correlations arestrong and highly significant.
Again, the correlationwith interruptions is negative, although not signifi-cant.
Thus, more entrainment defined by this metricmeans shorter latency between turns, fewer interrup-tions, and again and more strongly, higher scores.We thus find that, the more entrainment at theglobal level, the better the coordination between thepartners and the better their performance on theirjoint task.
These results provide evidence of the im-portance of BPC entrainment to dialogue.5 ConclusionIn this paper we discuss the role of entrainmentin turn-taking behavior and its impact on conversa-tional coordination and task success in the ColumbiaGames Corpus.
We examine a novel form of en-trainment, entrainment in BPCs ?
characteristics ofspeech segments that are followed by backchannelsfrom the interlocutor.
We employ three measuresof entrainment ?
two global and one local ?
andfind evidence of entrainment in all three.
We alsofind correlations between our two global entrain-ment measures and conversational coordination andtask success.
In future, we will extend this analysisto the complementary turn-taking category of turn-yielding cues and explore how a spoken dialoguesystem may take advantage of information about en-trainment to improve dialogue coordination and theuser experience.1166 AcknowledgmentsThis material is based on work supported inpart by the National Science Foundation underGrant No.
IIS-0803148 and by UBACYT No.20020090300087.ReferencesL.
Bell, J. Boye, J. Gustafson, and M. Wiren.
2000.Modality convergence in a multimodal dialogue sys-tem.
In Proceedings of 4th Workshop on the Semanticsand Pragmatics of Dialogue (GOTALOG).L.
Bell, J. Gustafson, and M. Heldner.
2003.
Prosodicadaptation in human-computer interaction.
In Pro-ceedings of the 15th International Congress of Pho-netic Sciences (ICPhS).S.E.
Brennan and H.H.
Clark.
1996.
Conceptual pactsand lexical choice in conversation.
Journal of Exper-imental Psychology: Learning, Memory, and Cogni-tion, 22(6):1482?1493.S.E.
Brennan.
1996.
Lexical entrainment in spontaneousdialog.
In Proceedings of the International Sympo-sium on Spoken Dialog (ISSD).E.H.
Buder, A.S. Warlaumont, D.K.
Oller, and L.B.Chorna.
2010.
Dynamic indicators of Mother-InfantProsodic and Illocutionary Coordination.
In Proceed-ings of the 5th International Conference on SpeechProsody.R.
Coulston, S. Oviatt, and C. Darves.
2002.
Amplitudeconvergence in children?s conversational speech withanimated personas.
In Proceedings of the 7th Inter-national Conference on Spoken Language Processing(ICSLP).J.
Edlund, M. Heldner, and J. Hirschberg.
2009.
Pauseand gap length in face-to-face interaction.
In Proceed-ings of Interspeech.D.
Goleman.
2006.
Social Intelligence: The New Sci-ence of Human Relationships.
Bantam.A.
Gravano and J. Hirschberg.
2009.
Backchannel-inviting cues in task-oriented dialogue.
In Proceedingsof SigDial.A.
Gravano and J. Hirschberg.
2011.
Turn-taking cuesin task-oriented dialogue.
Computer Speech and Lan-guage, 25(33):601?634.M.
Heldner, J. Edlund, and J. Hirschberg.
2010.
Pitchsimilarity in the vicinity of backchannels.
In Proceed-ings of Interspeech.A.
Nenkova, A. Gravano, and J. Hirschberg.
2008.
Highfrequency word entrainment in spoken dialogue.
InProceedings of ACL/HLT.K.
Niederhoffer and J. Pennebaker.
2002.
Linguisticstyle matching in social interaction.
Journal of Lan-guage and Social Psychology, 21(4):337?360.M.
J. Pickering and S. Garrod.
2004.
Toward a mecha-nistic psychology of dialogue.
Behavioral and BrainSciences, 27:169?226.D.
Reitter, F. Keller, and J.D.
Moore.
2006.
Computa-tional modelling of structural priming in dialogue.
InProceedings of HLT/NAACL.E.
Schegloff.
1982.
Discourse as an interactionalachievement: Some uses of ?uh huh?
and other thingsthat come between sentences.
In D. Tannen, editor,Analyzing Discourse: Text and Talk, pages 71?93.Georgetown University Press.S.
Stoyanchev and A. Stent.
2009.
Lexical and syntacticpriming and their impact in deployed spoken dialoguesystems.
In Proceedings of NAACL.A.
Ward and D. Litman.
2007.
Automatically measuringlexical and acoustic/prosodic convergence in tutorialdialog corpora.
In Proceedings of the SLaTE Work-shop on Speech and Language Technology in Educa-tion.N.G.
Ward and S.K.
Mamidipally.
2008.
Factors Affect-ing Speaking-Rate Adaptation in Task-Oriented Di-alogs.
In Proceedings of the 4th International Con-ference on Speech Prosody.117
