Proceedings of the ACL-HLT 2011 Student Session, pages 41?45,Portland, OR, USA 19-24 June 2011. c?2011 Association for Computational LinguisticsConsentCanvas: Automatic Texturing for Improved Readability in End-User License AgreementsOliver Schneider & Alex GarnettDepartment of Computer Science, University of British Columbia201-2366 Main Mall, Vancouver, BC, Canada, V6T 1Z4oschneid@cs.ubc.ca, axfelix@gmail.comAbstractWe present ConsentCanvas, a systemwhich structures and ?texturizes?
End-UserLicense Agreement (EULA) documents tobe more readable.
The system aims to helpusers better understand the terms underwhich they are providing their informedconsent.
ConsentCanvas receives unstruc-tured text documents as input and uses un-supervised natural language processingmethods to embellish the source documentusing a linked stylesheet.
Unlike similarusable security projects which employsummarization techniques, our system pre-serves the contents of the source document,minimizing the cognitive and legal burdenfor both the end user and the licensor.
Oursystem does not require a corpus for train-ing.1 IntroductionLess than 2% of users read End-User LicenseAgreement (EULA) documents when indicatingtheir consent to the software installation process(Good et al, 2007).
While these documents oftenserve as a user?s sole direct interaction with thelegal terms of the software, they are usually notread, as they are presented in such a way as is di-vorced from the use of the software itself (Fried-man et al, 2005).
To address this, Kay and Terry(2010) developed what they call Textured Consentagreements which employ a linked stylesheet toaugment salient parts of a EULA document.
Unlikesummarization-driven approaches to usable securi-ty, this is achieved without any modification of theunderlying text, minimizing the cognitive and legalburden for both the end user and the licensor andremoving the need to make available a supplemen-tary unmodified document (Kelley et al 2009; Far-zindar, 2004).We have developed a system, ConsentCanvas, forautomating the creation of a Textured Consentdocument from an unstructured EULA based onthe example XHTML/CSS template provided byKay and Terry (2010; Figure 1).
Our system doesnot currently use any complex syntactic or seman-tic information from the source document.
Instead,it makes use of regular expressions and correlationfunctions to identify variable-length relevantphrases (Kim and Chan, 2004) to alter the docu-ment?s structure and appearance.We report on ConsentCanvas as a work in pro-gress.
The system automates the labour intensivemanual process used by Kay and Terry (2010).ConsentCanvas has a working implementation, buthas not yet been formally evaluated.
We also pre-sent the first available implementation of Kim andChan?s algorithm (2004).Figure 1.
Example Textured Consent Document as de-signed by Kay and Terry (2010).412 MethodsWe built ConsentCanvas in Python 2.6 using theNatural Language Toolkit (NLTK) 2.0b9.
It uses amodified version of the markup.py library availa-ble from http://markup.sourceforge.net to generatevalid HTML5 documents.
A detailed specificationof our system workflow is provided in Figure 2.ConsentCanvas was designed with modularity as apriority in order to adapt to the needs of future ex-perimentation and improvement.
As such, we con-tribute not just a working application, but also anextensible framework for the visual embellishmentof plaintext documents.2.1 AnalysisOur system takes plain-text EULA documents asinput through a simple command line interface.
Itthen passes this document to four independentsubmodules for analysis.
Each submodule storesthe initial and final character positions of a stringselected from within the document body, but doesnot modify the document before reaching the ren-derer step.
This allows for easy extensibility of thesystem2.2 Variable-Length Phrase FinderThe variable-length phrase finder module featuresa Python implementation of the Variable-LengthPhrase Finding (VLPF) Algorithm by Kim andChan (2004).
Kim and Chan?s algorithm was cho-sen for its domain independence and adaptability,as it can be fine-tuned to use different correlationfunctions.Figure 2.
ConsentCanvas System Diagram.This algorithm computes the conditional probabil-ity for the relative importance of variable-length n-gram phrases from the source document alone.
Itbegins by considering every word a phrase with alength of one.
The algorithm iteratively increasesthe length of phrases, adding an adjacent word tothe end.
That is, every phrase of length m P{m} isconsidered as P{m-1}w, where w is a followingadjacent word.Correlation is calculated between the leadingphrase P{m-1} and the trailing word w. Phrasesthat maintain a high level of correlation are creat-ing by appending the trailing word w, and thosewith a correlation score below a certain thresholdare pruned before the next iteration.
This continuesuntil no more phrases can be created.
This methodis completely unsupervised.The VLPF algorithm is able to use any of severalexisting correlation functions.
We have imple-mented the Piatetsky-Shapiro correlation function,the simplest of the three best-performing functionsused by Kim and Chan, which achieved a correla-tion of 92.0% with human rankings of meaningfulphrases (2004).We removed English stopwords, but did not per-form any stemming when selecting relevantphrases because the selection of VLPs did not de-pend on global term co-occurrence, and we did notwant to modify selected exact phrases.
We empha-size the top 15% meaningful phrases (as deter-mined by the algorithm) for the entire document.15% was chosen for its comparable results to Kayand Terry?s example document (2010).
The phraseselected as the most relevant is also reproduced inthe pull quote at the top of the document, as shownin Figure 3.2.3 Contact Information ExtractorThe contact information extractor module usesregular expressions to match URLs, email address-es, or phone numbers within the document text.This information was displayed as bold type inaccordance with the Textured Consent template.2.4 SegmenterThe segmenter module uses Hearst?s TextTilingalgorithm to ?segment text into multi-paragraphsubtopic passages?
(1997).
This algorithm analyzes42patterns of lexical co-occurrence and distributionin order to impose topic boundaries on a document.ConsentCanvas uses the NLTK implementation ofthe TextTiling algorithm.
Segmentation was notapplied to the entire document (doing this resultedin a messy layout incoherent with structuring ap-plied by headers and titles).
Instead, we used it toidentify the lead paragraph of the document, whichwas rendered differently using the ?lead para-graph?
container in the template.
Future versionswill use a more modern segmenting algorithm.2.5 Header ExtractorThe header extractor module uses regular expres-sions to match any section header-like text fromthe original document.
Several different searchstrings were used to catch multiple potential headertypes, including but not limited to:?
8 OR FEWER ALL-CAPS TOKENS?
3.
Single level numbered headers?
3.1 Multi-level numbered headers?
Eight or fewer tokens separated by a line breakFigure 3.
Summary text in the example document.2.6 RenderingEach analysis submodule produces a list of charac-ter positions where found items begin and end.These are passed to our rendering system, whichinserts the corresponding HTML5 tags at the posi-tions in original plaintext EULA.
We append aheader to the output document to include the linkedstylesheet per HTML5 specifications.3 Analysis & ResultsWe conducted a brief qualitative analysis on Con-sentCanvas after implementation and debugging.However, the problem space and system are notyet ready for formal verification or experimenta-tion.
More exploration and refinement are requiredbefore we will be able to empirically determine ifwe have improved readability and comprehension.3.1 CorpusWe conducted our analysis on a small sample ofEULAs from the same collection used by Lavessonet al (2008) in their work on the classification ofEULAs.
There were 1021 EULAs in this corpusdivided into 96 ?bad?
and 925 ?good?
examples.We used the ?good?
examples for our analysis.3.2 Variable-Length Phrase Finding ResultsVariable-Length Phrases (VLPs) were reasonablyeffective.
In several of the best examples of textur-ized EULAs security concerns were highlighted; inthe texturized version of one document, the pullquote was ?on media, ICONIX, Inc. warrants thatsuch media is free from defects in materials andworkmanship under normal use for a period ofninety (90) days from the date of purchase as evi-denced by a copy of the receipt.
ICONIX, Inc.
war-rants.?
In the same EULA, other VLPs provedhelpful: ?e that ICONIX, Inc. is free to use anyideas, concepts,?
?
(except one copy for backuppurposes),?
and ?Inc.
ICONIX, Inc. does not col-lect any personally identifiable information regard-ing senders.?
Some phrases have incomplete wordsat the beginning and end; this is an artifact of aknown but unfixed bug in the implementation, nota result of the algorithm.However, these results were mixed in other EU-LAs.
Several short but frequent phrases were foundto be VLPs, such as ?Inc.,?
in the same EULA.
Inshort licenses consisting of only one to three para-graphs, sometimes no relevant VLPs were discov-ered.
There are also many phrases that should behighlighted that are not.3.3 Preliminary System EvaluationWe conducted an informal evaluation in which oursystem applied texture to 15 documents chosenfrom our corpus at random.
Of these, five weredetermined to be highly readable exemplar docu-ments.
An excerpt from one of these is shown inFigure 4.
Of the remaining ten documents, four hadpoorly selected header markup but were otherwisesatisfactory, two were too short or poorly-structured to benefit from the insertion of headermarkup, two did not perform well on the VLPFstep, and two had several errors which appeared tohave been caused by the use of non-ASCII charac-ters in the original document.43The pull quote text was nearly unintelligible inalmost all cases, due largely to the fact that it didnot split evenly on sentence borders.
We did not letthis detract from our evaluation of the documents,because performance in this area was so consist-ently, and charmingly, poor, but did not affectreadability of the main document body.4 DiscussionOur preliminary analysis has provided several in-sights into the challenges and next steps in accom-plishing this task.4.1 Comparisons with Kay and TerryKay and Terry (2010) make reference to ?aug-menting and embellishing?
the document text ?specifically not altering the original content.
How-ever, their example document is written conciselyin a user-friendly voice dissimilar to most formalEULAs found in the wild.
Their work provides astrong proof of concept, but a key line of investiga-tion will be whether their approach is practical, orwhether some preprocessing is necessary to simpli-fy content.4.2 Handling Legal LanguageWe had anticipated a considerable amount of diffi-culty in selecting meaningful phrases from diffi-cult-to-understand legal language in the sourcedocument.
However, most documents were foundto contain a number of high-frequency VLPs withboth layperson-salient legal terminology andcommon clues to document structure.4.3 Future WorkConsentCanvas is fully implemented but offersmany opportunities for improvement as the taskbecomes better understood.
The variable-lengthphrase finding module only incorporates a singlecorrelation function.
More will be added, drawingin particular from those documented by Kim andChan (2004).
Machine learning techniques mightalso be used to classify phrases as relevant or not,leading to better-emphasized content.The rhythm of emphasized phrasing is also im-portant.
In the example license designed by Kayand Terry (2010), there are one or two emphasizedphrases in each section.
The phrases found byConsentCanvas are often sporadic, clustering insome sections and absent from others.
As a resultof this, readability suffers, and so we may need tolook into possible stratification of VLPs.
Thismight also aid multi-lingual documents, of whichthere are a few examples (a cursory look showedthe results in French were comparable to those inEnglish in a bilingual EULA in our corpus).Figure 4.
Summary text in an example output document.44Contact information is currently emphasized in thesame manner as salient phrases.
We plan to even-tually embed hyperlinks for all URLs and emailaddresses found in the source document, as in Kayand Terry (2010).The segmenter module uses the basic TextTilingalgorithm with default parameters.
More recentapproaches could be implemented and could act onmore than the lead paragraph.
For example, coher-ent sections of long EULAs might be identifiedand presented as separate containers.We plan to improve header extractor providingmore sophisticated regular expressions; we foundthat a wide variety of header styles were used.
Inparticular, we plan to consider layouts that use dig-its, punctuation, or inconsistent capitalization inmultiple instances in the document body.There is currently no module that incorporates the?Warning?
box from Kay and Terry (2010).
Thismodule would be designed to select relevant multi-line blocks of text by using techniques similar tothe variable-length phrase finder or the segmenter.ConsentCanvas will also be extended to supportcommand-line parameters.
This will enable cus-tomized texturing of EULAs and facilitate experi-mentation for understanding and evaluating gainsin comprehension and readability.
Finally, we willconduct a formal user evaluation of ConsentCan-vas.5 ConclusionWe have provided a description of the work inprogress for ConsentCanvas, a system for automat-ically adding texture to EULAs to improve reada-bility and comprehension.
Informal analysisrevealed several key challenges in accomplishingthis task and identified the next steps towards ex-ploring effective solutions to this problem.AcknowledgmentsWe would like to thank the reviewers for theirhelpful feedback and Dr. Giuseppe Carenini for hissupport and encouragement.
This work was partial-ly supported by an NSERC CGS M scholarship.AppendixThe source code, our corpus, and a sample of con-verted documents are all available at:https://github.com/axfelix/consentCanvas.ReferencesFarzindar, A.
2004.
Legal text summarization by explo-ration of the thematic structures and argumentativeroles.
Text Summarization Branches Out.Friedman, B.
2005.
Informed consent by design.
In Se-curity and Usability, Eds.
Lorrie Faith Cranor & SimsonGarfinkel,Good, N., Dhamija, R., Grossklags, J., Thaw, D., Aro-nowitz, S., Mulligan, D. and Konstan, J.
2005.
Stoppingspyware at the gate: a user study of privacy, notice andspyware.
Proceedings of the 1st Symposium on UsablePrivacy and Security.
43?52.Hearst, M.A.
1997.
TextTiling: segmenting text intomulti-paragraph subtopic passages.
Computational lin-guistics 23, 1: 33?64.Kay, M. and Terry, M. 2010.
Textured agreements: Re-envisioning electronic consent.
Proceedings of the SixthSymposium on Usable Privacy and Security.Kelley, P.G., Bresee, J., Cranor, L.F., and Reeder, R.W.2009.
A nutrition label for privacy.
Proceedings of the5th Symposium on Usable Privacy and Security: 1?12.Kim, H. and Chan, P.K.
2004.
Identifying variable-length meaningful phrases with correlation functions.16th IEEE International Conference on Tools with Arti-ficial Intelligence, 30-38.Lavesson, N., Davidsson, P., Boldt, M., Jacobsson, A.2008.
Spyware Prevention by Classifying End UserLicense Agreements.
Studies in Computational Intelli-gence, volume 134.
373-382.45
