Proceedings of the 49th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics:shortpapers, pages 248?253,Portland, Oregon, June 19-24, 2011. c?2011 Association for Computational LinguisticsTowards Style Transformation from Written-Style to Audio-StyleAmjad Abu-Jbara?EECS DepartmentUniversity of MichiganAnn Arbor, MI, USAamjbara@umich.eduBarbara RosarioIntel LabsSanta Clara, CA, USAbarbara.rosario@intel.comKent LyonsIntel LabsSanta Clara, CA, USAkent.lyons@intel.comAbstractIn this paper, we address the problem of op-timizing the style of textual content to makeit more suitable to being listened to by a useras opposed to being read.
We study the dif-ferences between the written style and the au-dio style by consulting the linguistics and jour-nalism literatures.
Guided by this study, wesuggest a number of linguistic features to dis-tinguish between the two styles.
We showthe correctness of our features and the impactof style transformation on the user experiencethrough statistical analysis, a style classifica-tion task, and a user study.1 IntroductionWe live in a world with an ever increasing amountand variety of information.
A great deal of that con-tent is in a textual format.
Mobile technologies haveincreased our expectations as to when, where, andhow we can access such content.
As such, it is notuncommon to want to gain access to this informationwhen a visual display is not convenient or available(while driving or walking for example).
One way ofaddressing this issue is to use audio displays and, inparticular, have users listen to content read to themby a speech synthesizer instead of reading it them-selves on a display.While listening to speech opens many opportu-nities, it also has issues which must be consideredwhen using it as a replacement for reading.
One im-portant consideration is that the text that was origi-nally written to be read might not be suitable to belistened to.
Journalists, for example, write differ-ently for audio (i.e.
radio news broadcast) compared?Work conducted while interning at Intel Labsto writing content meant to be read (i.e.
newspaperarticles) (Fang, 1991).One key reason for the difference is that under-standing is more important than grammar to a radionews writer.
Furthermore, audio has different per-ceptual and information qualities compared to read-ing.
For example, the use of the negations not andno should be limited since it is easy for listeners tomiss that single utterance.
Listener cannot relisten toa word; and, missing it has a huge impact on mean-ing.In this paper, we address the problem of changingthe writing-style of text to make it suitable to beinglistened to instead of being read.We start by researching the writing-style differ-ences across text and audio in the linguistics andjournalism literatures.
Based on this study, we sug-gest a number of linguistic features that set the twostyles apart.
We validate these features statisticallyby analyzing their distributions in a corpus of paral-lel text- and audio-style documents; and experimen-tally through a style classification task.
Moreover,we evaluate the impact of style transformation onthe user experience by conducting a user study.The rest of this paper is organized as follows.
Inthe next section, we examine the related work.
InSection 3, we summarize the main style differencesas they appear in the journalism and linguistics lit-eratures.
In Section 4, we describe the data that wecollected and used in this work.
The features that wepropose and their validation are discussed in Section5.
In Section 6, we describe the user study and dis-cuss the results.
We conclude in Section 7.2 Related WorkThere has been a considerable amount of researchon the language variations for different registers and248genres in the linguistics community, including re-search that focused on the variations between writ-ten and spoken language (Biber, 1988; Halliday,1985; Esser, 1993; Whittaker et al, 1998; Esser,2000).
For example, Biber (1988) provides an ex-haustive study of such variations.
He uses compu-tational techniques to analyze the linguistic charac-teristics of twenty-three spoken and written genres,enabling identification of the basic, underlying di-mensions of variation in English.Halliday (1985) performs a comparative studyof spoken and written language, contrasting theprosodic features and grammatical intricacy ofspeech with the high lexical density and grammat-ical metaphor or writing.
Esser (2000) proposesa general framework for the different presentationstructures of medium-dependent linguistic units.Most of these studies focus on the variations be-tween the written and the spontaneous spoken lan-guage.
Our focus is on the written language foraudio, i.e.
on a style that we hypothesize beingsomewhere between the formally written and spon-taneous speech styles.
Fang (1991) provides a prag-matic analysis and a side-by-side comparisons of the?writing style differences in newspaper, radio, andtelevision news?
as part of the instructions for jour-nalist students learning to write for the three differ-ent mediums.Paraphrase generation (Barzilay and McKeown,2001; Shinyama et al, 2002; Quirk et al, 2004;Power and Scot, 2005; Zhao et al, 2009; Madnaniand Dorr, 2010) is related to our work, but usuallythe focus has been on the semantics, with the goalof generating relevant content, and on the syntax togenerate well formed text.
In this work the goal is tooptimize the style, and generation is one approach tothat end (we plan addressing it for future work)Authorship attribution (Mosteller and Wallace,1964; Stamatatos et al, 2000; Argamon et al, 2003;Argamon et al, 2007; Schler and Argamon, 2009)is also related to our work since arguably differ-ent authors write in different styles.
For exam-ple, Argamon et al (2003) explored differencesbetween male and female writing in a large sub-set of the British National Corpus covering a rangeof genres.
Argamon el al.
(2007) addressed theproblem of classifying texts by authors, author per-sonality, gender of literary characters, sentiment(positive/negative feeling), and scientific rhetoricalstyles.
They used lexical features based on tax-onomies of various semantic functions of differentlexical items (words or phrases).
These studies fo-cused on the correlation between style of the textand the personal characteristics of its author.
In ourwork, we focus on the change in writing style ac-cording to the change of the medium.3 Writing Style Differences Across Textand AudioIn this section, we summarize the literature on writ-ing style differences across text and audio.
Style dif-ferences are not due to happenstance.
Writing stylesfor different media have evolved due to the uniquenature of each medium and to the manner in whichits audience consumes it.
For example, in audio, theinformation must be consumed sequentially and thelistener does not have the option to skip the informa-tion that she finds less interesting.Also, the listener, unlike the reader, cannot stopto review the meaning of a word or a sentence.
Theeye skip around in text but there is not that optionwith listening.
Moreover, unlike attentive readers oftext, audio listeners may be engaged in some task(e.g.
driving, working, etc.)
other than absorbing theinformation they listen to, and therefore are payingless attention.All these differences of the audio medium affectthe length of sentences, the choice of words, thestructure of phrases of attribution, the use of pro-nouns, etc.Some general guidelines of audio style (Biber,1988; Fang, 1991) include 1) the choice of sim-ple words and short, declarative sentences with ac-tive voice preferred.
2) Attribution precedes state-ments as it does in normal conversations.
3) Thesubject should be as close to the predicate as feasi-ble.
4) Pronouns should be used with a lot of wari-ness.
It is better to repeat a name, so that the lis-tener will not have to pause or replay to recall.
5)Direct quotations are uncommon and the person be-ing quoted is identified before the quotation.
6) De-pendent clauses should be avoided, especially at thestart of a sentence.
It is usually better to make a sep-arate sentence of a dependent clause.
7) Numbersshould be approximated so that they can be under-24901002003004005006007001 5 9 13 17 21 25 29 33 37 41 45 49 53 57More0501001502002503003504004501 4 7 10 13 16 19 22 25 28 31 34 37 40 43 46More0200400600800100012001400160000.010.020.030.040.050.060.070.080.09 0.1 0.120.13Average Sentence  Length Percentage of Complex Words Ratio of AdverbsTranscriptsArticlesTranscriptsArticlesTranscriptsArticles# Documents# Documents# DocumentsFigure 1: The distributions of three features for both articles and transcriptsstood.
For example, the sum of $52,392 could bestated as more than fifty thousand dollars.
8) Adjec-tives and adverbs should be used only when neces-sary for the meaning.4 DataIn order to determine the differences between thetext and audio styles, we needed textual data thatideally covered the same semantic content but wasproduced for the two different media.
NationalPublic Radio (NPR) has exactly this type of data.Through their APIs we obtained the same semanticcontent in the two different styles: written text style(articles, henceforth) and in audio style (transcripts,henceforth).
The NPR Story API output containslinks to the Transcript API when a transcript is avail-able.
With the Transcript API, we were able to getfull transcripts of stories heard on air1.
To the best ofour knowledge, this is the first use of this collectionfor NLP research.We collected 3855 news articles and their corre-sponding transcripts.
The data cover a varied set oftopics from four months of broadcast (from March 6to June 3, 2010).
Table 2 shows an example of sucharticle-transcript pairs.5 FeaturesBased on the study of style differences outlined insection 3, we propose a number of document-level,linguistic features that we hypothesized distinguishthe two writing styles.
We extracted these fea-1http://www.npr.org/api/indextures for each article and transcript.
The analysisof these features (will be discussed later in the sec-tion) showed that they are of different importance tostyle identification.
Table 1 shows a list of the topfeatures and their descriptions.5.1 Statistical AnalysisThe goal of this analysis is to show that the valuesof the features that we extracted are really differentacross the two styles and that the difference is sig-nificant.
We compute the distribution of the valuesof each feature in articles and its distribution in tran-scripts.
For example, Figure 1 shows the distribu-tions of 3 features for both articles and transcripts.The figure clearly shows how the distributions aredifferent.
A two-tailed paired Student?s T-test (withalpha set to 0.05) reveals statistically significant dif-ference for all of the features (p < 0.0001).This analysis corroborated our linguistic hypothe-ses, such as the average sentence length is longer forarticles than for transcripts, complex words (morethan 3 syllables) are more common in articles, arti-cles contain more adverbs, etc.5.2 ClassificationTo further verify that our features really distinguishbetween the two writing styles, we conducted a clas-sification experiment.
We used the features de-scribed in Table 1 (excluding the Direct Quotationfeature) and the dataset described in section 4 totrain a classifier.
We used Libsvm (Chang and Lin,2001) with a linear kernel as our classifier.
We per-formed 10-fold cross validation on the entire dataset.250Feature Description RankDirect quotations We use a pattern matching rule to find all the instances of direct speech (e.g.
?I love English?, saysPeter).1Average sentence length The length of a sentence is the number of words it contains.
2Ratio of complex words A complex word consists of three or more syllables (Gunning, 1952).
Complex words are moredifficult to pronounce and harder to understand when being listened to than simpler words.3Ratio of pronouns We count the different types of pronouns; first person pronouns, second person pronouns, thirdperson pronoun, demonstrative pronouns (this, these, those), and the pronoun it.4Average distance betweeneach verb and its subjectWe associate each verb with its subject by parsing the sentence using a dependency parser andfinding nsubj link.
The distance is the word count between the verb and its subject.5Ratio of adjectives We count attributive adjectives (e.g.
the big house) and predictive adjectives (e.g.
the house is big)separately.6Dependent clauses We identify dependent clauses by parsing the sentence and finding a SBAR node in the parse tree.
7Average noun phrase mod-ification degreeThe average number of modifiers for all the noun phrases in the document.
8Average number of sylla-blesThe total number of syllables in the document divided by the number of words.
To get an accuratecount of syllables in a word, we look up the word in a dictionary.
All the numbers are convertedto words (e.g.
25 becomes twenty five).
We also change all the contractions to their normal form(e.g.
I?ll becomes I will).9Ratio of passive sentences We find passive sentences using a pattern match rule against the part-of-speech tags of the sentence.We compute the ratios of agentless passive sentences and by-passive sentences separately.10Ratio of adverbs In addition to counting all the adverbs, we also count special types of adverbs separately includ-ing: amplifiers (e.g.
absolutely, completely, enormously, etc), downtoners (e.g.
almost, barely,hardly, etc), place adverbials (e.g.
abroad, above, across, etc), and time adverbials (e.g.
after-wards, eventually, initially, etc).
The list of special adverbs and their types is taken from Quirk et.al (1985).11Size of vocabulary The number of unique words in a document divided by the total number of words.
12Ratio of verb tenses We count the three main types of verbs, present, past, and perfect aspect.
13Ratio of approximatednumbersWe count the instance of approximated numbers in text.
In particular, we count the pattern morethan/less than/about/almost ?integer number?.14Table 1: Style FeaturesWritten articleThe mammoth oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico, sparked by the explo-sion and sinking of a deep-water oil rig, now surrounds the Missis-sippi River Delta, all but shutting down fisheries.
But the oil industrystill has a lot of friends on the delta.
As Louisianans fight the crudeinvading their coast, many also want to repel efforts to limit offshoredrilling.
?We need the oil industry, and down here, there are onlytwo industries ?
fishing and oil,?
says charter boat captain DevlinRoussel.
Like most charter captains on the delta, Roussel has justbeen sitting on the dock lately.
But if he did have paying customersto take out fishing, he?d most likely take them to an oil rig.
[..]TranscriptIt?s MORNING EDITION from NPR News.
I?m Steve Inskeep.And I?m Renee Montagne.
President Obama?s administration ispromising action on that catastrophic oil spill.
The president?s en-vironmental adviser says the BP oil leak will be plugged.
More onthat in a moment.
President Obama yesterday said the nation is toodependent on fossil fuels.
But you dont realize just how dependentuntil you travel to the Mississippi River Delta.
The fishing industrythere is all but shut down.
Yet some residents do not want to stopor slow offshore drilling despite the disaster.
NPR?s Frank Morrisvisited Buras, Louisiana [..]Table 2: An example of an article?transcript pair.Our classifier achieved 87.4% accuracy which ishigh enough to feel confident about the features.We excluded the Direct Quotation feature fromthis experiment because it is a very distinguishingfeature for articles.
The vast majority of the articlesin our dataset contained direct quotations and noneof the transcripts did.
When this feature is included,the accuracy rises to 97%.To better understand which features are more im-portant indicators of the style, we use Guyon etal.
?s (2002) method for feature selection using SVMto rank the features based on their importance.
Theranks are shown in the last column in Table 1.2516 User StudyUp to this point, we know that there are differencesin style between articles and transcripts, and we for-malized these differences in the form of linguisticfeatures that are easy to extract using computationaltechniques.
However, we still do not know the im-pact of changing the style on the user experience.
Toaddress this issue, we did manual transformation ofstyle for 50 article paragraphs.
The transformationwas done in light of the features described in the pre-vious section.
For example, if a sentence is longerthan 25 words, we simplify it; and, if it is in passivevoice we change it to active voice whenever possi-ble, etc.
We used a speech synthesizer to convert theoriginal paragraphs and their transformed versionsinto audio clips.
We used these audio clips to con-duct a user study.We gave human participants the audio clips to lis-ten to and transcribe.
Each audio clip was dividedinto segments 15 seconds long.
Each segment canbe played only once and pauses automatically whenit is finished to allow the user to transcribe the seg-ment.
The user was not allowed to replay any seg-ment of the clip.
Our hypothesis for this study isthat audio clips of the transformed paragraphs (audiostyle) are easier to comprehend, and hence, easier totranscribe than the original paragraphs (text style).We use the edit distance between the transcripts andthe text of each audio clip to measure the transcrip-tion accuracy.
We assume that the transcription ac-curacy is an indicator for the comprehension level,i.e.
the higher the accuracy of the transcription thehigher the comprehension.We used Amazon Mechanical Turk to run the userstudy.
We took several precautions to guarantee thequality of the data (burch, 2009).
We restricted theworkers to those who have more than 95% approvalrate for all their previous work and who live in theUnited States (since we are targeting English speak-ers).
We also assigned the same audio clip to 10different workers and took the average edit distanceof the 10 transcripts for each audio clip.The differences in the transcription accuracy forthe original and the transformed paragraphs werestatically significant at the 0.05 level according toa 2-tailed paired t-test.
The overall average edit dis-tance was 0.69 for the 50 transformed paragraphsand 0.56 for the original article paragraphs.
This re-sult indicates that the change in style has an impacton the comprehension of the delivered informationas measured by the accuracy of the transcriptions.7 Conclusions and Future WorkIn this paper, we presented the progress on an on-going research on writing style transformation fromtext style to audio style.
We motivated the topic andemphasized its importance.
We surveyed the lin-guistics and journalism literatures for the differencesin writing style for different media.
We formalizedthe problem by suggesting a number of linguisticfeatures and showing their validity in distinguishingbetween the two styles of interest, text vs audio.
Wealso conducted a user study to show the impact ofstyle transformation on comprehension and the over-all user experience.The next step in this work would be to build astyle transformation system that uses the featuresdiscussed in this paper as the bases for determiningwhen, where, and how to do the style transforma-tion.ReferencesShlomo Argamon, Moshe Koppel, Jonathan Fine, andAnat Rachel Shimoni.
2003.
Gender, genre, and writ-ing style in formal written texts.
TEXT, 23:321?346.Shlomo Argamon, Paul Chase, Sushant Dhawle, SobhanRaj, Hota Navendu, and Garg Shlomo Levitan.
2007.Stylistic text classification using functional lexical fea-tures.
Journal of the American Society of InformationScience.
((In press)) Baayen, 7:91?109.Regina Barzilay and Kathleen R. McKeown.
2001.
Ex-tracting paraphrases from a parallel corpus.
In Pro-ceedings of the 39th Annual Meeting on Associationfor Computational Linguistics, ACL ?01, pages 50?57,Stroudsburg, PA, USA.
Association for ComputationalLinguistics.Douglas Biber.
1988.
Variation across Speech and Writ-ing.
Cambridge University Press.Chris Callison burch.
2009.
Fast, cheap, and creative:Evaluating translation quality using amazons mechan-ical turk.Chih-Chung Chang and Chih-Jen Lin, 2001.
LIBSVM: alibrary for support vector machines.Jrgen Esser.
1993.
English linguistic stylistics.Niemeyer.252Jrgen Esser.
2000.
Medium-transferability and presenta-tion structure in speech and writing.
Journal of Prag-matics, 32.Irving E. Fang.
1991.
Writing Style Differences in News-paper, Radio, and Television News.
Monograph SerVol, 1.
University of Minnesota.
Center for Interdisci-plinary Studies of Writing.Robert Gunning.
1952.
The technique of clear writing.Isabelle Guyon, Jason Weston, Stephen Barnhill, andVladimir Vapnik.
2002.
Gene selection for cancerclassification using support vector machines.
MachineLearning, 46:389?422.
10.1023/A:1012487302797.Michael Alexander Kirkwood Halliday.
1985.
Spokenand Written Language.
Deakin University Press.Nitin Madnani and Bonnie J. Dorr.
2010.
Generatingphrasal and sentential paraphrases: A survey of data-driven methods.
Comput.
Linguist., 36:341?387.Frederick Mosteller and David L. Wallace.
1964.
In-ference and disputed authorship : the Federalist / [by]Frederick Mosteller [and] David L. Wallace.
Addison-Wesley, Reading, Mass.
:.Richard Power and Donia Scot.
2005.
Automatic gener-ation of large-scale paraphrase.R.
Quirk, S. Greenbaum, G. Leech, and J. Svartvik.
1985.A Comprehensive Grammar of the English Language.Chris Quirk, Chris Brockett, and William Dolan.
2004.Monolingual machine translation for paraphrase gen-eration.
In In Proceedings of the 2004 Conference onEmpirical Methods in Natural Language Processing,pages 142?149.Jonathan Schler and Shlomo Argamon.
2009.
Computa-tional methods in authorship attribution.Yusuke Shinyama, Satoshi Sekine, and Kiyoshi Sudo.2002.
Automatic paraphrase acquisition from news ar-ticles.
In Proceedings of the second international con-ference on Human Language Technology Research,HLT ?02, pages 313?318, San Francisco, CA, USA.Morgan Kaufmann Publishers Inc.Efstathios Stamatatos, George Kokkinakis, andNikos Fakotakis T. 2000.
Automatic text categoriza-tion in terms of genre and author.
ComputationalLinguistics, 26:471?495.Steve Whittaker, Julia Hirschberg, and Christine H.Nakatani.
1998.
Play it again: a study of the fac-tors underlying speech browsing behavior.
In CHI?98: CHI 98 conference summary on Human factorsin computing systems, pages 247?248, New York, NY,USA.
ACM.Shiqi Zhao, Xiang Lan, Ting Liu, and Sheng Li.
2009.Application-driven statistical paraphrase generation.In Proceedings of the Joint Conference of the 47thAnnual Meeting of the ACL and the 4th Interna-tional Joint Conference on Natural Language Process-ing of the AFNLP: Volume 2 - Volume 2, ACL ?09,pages 834?842, Stroudsburg, PA, USA.
Associationfor Computational Linguistics.253
