Proceedings of the 49th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics:shortpapers, pages 357?362,Portland, Oregon, June 19-24, 2011. c?2011 Association for Computational LinguisticsA Corpus for Modeling Morpho-Syntactic Agreement in Arabic:Gender, Number and RationalitySarah Alkuhlani and Nizar HabashCenter for Computational Learning SystemsColumbia University{salkuhlani,habash}@ccls.columbia.eduAbstractWe present an enriched version of the PennArabic Treebank (Maamouri et al, 2004),where latent features necessary for model-ing morpho-syntactic agreement in Arabic aremanually annotated.
We describe our pro-cess for efficient annotation, and present thefirst quantitative analysis of Arabic morpho-syntactic phenomena.1 IntroductionArabic morphology is complex, partly because of itsrichness, and partly because of its complex morpho-syntactic agreement rules which depend on featuresnot necessarily expressed in word forms, such aslexical rationality and functional gender and num-ber.
In this paper, we present an enriched ver-sion of the Penn Arabic Treebank (PATB, part 3)(Maamouri et al, 2004) that we manually anno-tated for these features.1 We describe a processfor how to do the annotation efficiently; and fur-thermore, present the first quantitative analysis ofmorpho-syntactic phenomena in Arabic.This resource is important for building computa-tional models of Arabic morphology and syntax thataccount for morpho-syntactic agreement patterns.
Ithas already been used to demonstrate added valuefor Arabic dependency parsing (Marton et al, 2011).This paper is structured as follows: Sec-tions 2 and 3 present relevant linguistic facts andrelated work, respectively.
Section 4 describes ourannotation process and Section 5 presents an analy-sis of the annotated corpus.1The annotations are publicly available for research pur-poses.
Please contact authors.
The PATB must be acquiredthrough the Linguistic Data Consortium (LDC): http://www.ldc.upenn.edu/.2 Linguistic FactsArabic has a rich and complex morphology.
In addi-tion to being both templatic (root/pattern) and con-catenative (stems/affixes/clitics), Arabic?s optionaldiacritics add to the degree of word ambiguity(Habash, 2010).
This paper focuses on two specificissues of Modern Standard Arabic (MSA) nominalmorphology involving the features of gender andnumber only: the discrepancy between morpholog-ical form and function and the complex system ofmorpho-syntactic agreement.2.1 Form and FunctionArabic nominals (i.e.
nouns, proper nouns andadjectives) and verbs inflect for gender: mascu-line (M ) and feminine (F ), and for number: sin-gular (S), dual (D) and plural (P ).
These fea-tures are typically realized using a small set ofsuffixes that uniquely convey gender and num-ber combinations: +?
(MS),?+ +h?2 (FS),?
@+ +An (MD), 	?AK+ +tAn (FD), 	?
?+ +wn (MP ),and H@+ +At (FP ).3 For example, the adjectiveQ?A?
mAhr ?clever?
has the following forms amongothers: Q?A?
mAhr (MS),?Q?A?
mAhrh?
(FS), 	?
?Q?A?mAhrwn (MP ), and H@Q?A?
mAhrAt (FP ).
For asizable minority of words, these features are ex-pressed templatically, i.e., through pattern change,coupled with some singular suffix.
A typical ex-ample of this phenomenon is the class of broken2Arabic transliteration is presented in the Habash-Soudi-Buckwalter (HSB) scheme (Habash et al, 2007): (in alphabeti-cal order) Abt?jHxd?rzs?SDTD??
?fqklmnhwy and the additionalsymbols: ?
Z, ?
@, A?
@, A?@, w??
', y?
Z?
', h??, ?
?.3Some suffixes have case/state varying forms, e.g.,?
?+ +wn appears as 	?K+ +yn (accusative/genitive case) and?+ +w (nominative construct state).357plurals.
In such cases, the form of the morphol-ogy (singular suffix) is inconsistent with the word?sfunctional number (plural).
For example, the wordI.KA?
kAtb (MS) ?writer/scribe?
has two broken plu-rals: H. AJ?
ktAb (MSMP )4 and?J.J?
ktbh?
( FSMP ).
In ad-dition to broken plurals, Arabic has a class of bro-ken feminines in which the feminine singular formis derived templatically: e.g., the adjective ?red?Q?g@ ?Hmr (MSMS ) and Z @Q?g HmrA?
(MSFS ).
Verbs andnominal duals do not display this discrepancy.
Adhoc cases of form-function discrepancy also exist,e.g.,?
?J?g xlyfh?
( FSMS ) ?caliph?, ?
?Ag HAml (MSFS )?pregnant?, and?KQ?
Tryq ?road?
which can beboth M and F (MSBS ).
Arabic also has some non-countable collective plurals that behave as singularsmorpho-syntactically although they may translate toEnglish as plurals, e.g., Q??
tmr (MSMS ) ?palm dates?.2.2 Morpho-syntactic AgreementArabic gender and number features participate inmorpho-syntactic agreement within specific con-structions such as nouns and their adjectives andverbs and their subjects.
Arabic agreement rules aremore complex than the simple matching rules foundin languages such as French or Spanish (Holes,2004; Habash, 2010).First, Arabic adjectives agree with the nounsthey modify in gender and number except for plu-ral irrational (non-human) nouns, which alwaystake feminine singular adjectives.
For example,the two plural words HAJ.
?
A?
TAlbAt (FPFPR )5 ?stu-dents?
and HAJ.J??
mktbAt ?libraries?
( FPFPI ) takethe adjective ?new?
as H@YKYg.
jdydAt (FPFPN )and?YKYg.
jdydh?
(FSFSN ), respectively.
Ra-tionality is a morpho-lexical feature.
There arenouns that are semantically rational/human but notmorpho-syntactically, e.g., H.
???
?
?wb ( MSMPI ) ?na-tions/peoples?
takes a feminine singular adjective.6Second, verbs and their nominal subjects have thesame rules as nouns and their adjectives, except that,4This nomenclature denotes ( FormFunction ).5We specify rationality as part of the functional features ofthe word.
The values of this feature are: rational (R), irra-tional (I), and not-applicable (N ).
N is assigned to verbs, ad-jectives, numbers and quantifiers.6Rationality (?humanness?
???A?
Q?/??A??)
is narrowerthan animacy.
English expresses it mainly in pronouns (he/shevs.
it) and relativizers (men who... vs. cars/cows which...).Figure 1: An example of a dependency tree with form-based and functional morphology features ( FormFunction ).?YKYg.
H.
A??
@ ?
?g 	??Q?A?
?A????
?g ?J?
Sn?
xmsh?
?mAl mAhrwn xms Al?Ab jdydh?
?Five clever workersmade five new toys.?VERB?J?
Sn?
MSMSN ?made?OBJNUM?
?g xms MSMSN ?five?IDFNOUNH.
A??
@ Al?AbMSFPI ?toys?MODADJ?YKYg.
jdydh?FSFSN ?new?SBJNUM??
?g xmsh?
FSFSN ?five?IDFNOUN?A??
?mAl MSMPR ?workers?MODADJ??Q?A?
mAhrwn MPMPN ?clever?additionally, verbs in verb-subject (VSO) order onlyagree in gender and default to singular number.
Forexample, the sentence ?the men traveled?
can appearas @?Q?A?
?Ag.
Q?
@ AlrjAl (MSMPR ) sAfrwA (MPMPN ) or as?Ag.
Q?
@ Q?A?
sAfr ( MSMSN ) AlrjAl (MSMPR ).Third, number quantification has unique rules(Dada, 2007), e.g., numbers over 10 always take asingular noun, while numbers 3 to 10 take a plu-ral noun and inversely agree with the noun?s func-tional gender.7 Compare, for instance, HAJ.
?
A?
?
?gxms ( MSMSN ) TAlbAt (FPFPR ) ?five [female] students?with H.
C???
?g xmsh?
( FSFSN ) TlAb (MSMPR ) ?five[male] students?
and?J.
?
A????
?g xmswn ( MPBPN )TAlbh?
( FSFSR ) ?lit.
fifty [female] student[s]?.
Fig-ure 1 presents one example that combines the threephenomena mentioned above.
The example is in adependency representation based on the ColumbiaArabic Treebank (CATIB) (Habash and Roth, 2009).Finally, although the rules described above aregenerally followed, there are numerous exceptionsthat can typically be explained as some form of fig-ure of speech involving elision or overridden ratio-nality/irrationality.
For example, the word ?k.
jy?
( MSMSI ) ?army?
can take the rational MP agreementin an elided reference to its members.7Reverse gender agreement can be modeled as a form-function discrepancy, although it is typically not discussed assuch in Arabic grammar.3583 Related WorkMuch work has been done on Arabic computa-tional morphology (Al-Sughaiyer and Al-Kharashi,2004; Soudi et al, 2007; Habash, 2010).
How-ever, the bulk of this work does not address form-function discrepancy or morpho-syntactic agree-ment issues.
This is unfortunately the case in someof the most commonly used resources for ArabicNLP: the Buckwalter Arabic Morphological Ana-lyzer (BAMA) (Buckwalter, 2004) and the PennArabic Tree Bank (PATB) (Maamouri et al, 2004).There are some important exceptions (Goweder etal., 2004; Smr?, 2007b; Elghamry et al, 2008; Ab-b?s et al, 2004; Attia, 2008; Altantawy et al, 2010).We focus on comparing with two of these due tospace restrictions.Smr?
(2007b)?s work contrasting illusory (form)features and functional features inspired our distinc-tion of morphological form and function.
How-ever, unlike him, we do not distinguish betweensub-functional (logical and formal) features.
HisElixirFM analyzer (Smr?, 2007a) extends BAMAby including functional number and some functionalgender information, but not rationality.
This ana-lyzer was used as part of the annotation of the PragueArabic Dependency Treebank (PADT) (Smr?
andHajic?, 2006).
In the work presented here, we an-notate for all three features completely in the PATBand we present a quantitative analysis of morpho-syntactic agreement patterns in it.Elghamry et al (2008) presented an automaticcue-based algorithm that uses bilingual and mono-lingual cues to build a web-extracted lexicon en-riched with gender, number and rationality features.Their automatic technique achieves an F-score of89.7% against a gold standard set.
Unlike them,we annotate the PATB manually exploiting existingPATB information to help annotate efficiently andaccurately.4 Corpus Annotation4.1 The CorpusWe annotated the Penn Arabic Treebank (PATB) part3 (Maamouri et al, 2004) for functional gender,number and rationality.
The corpus contains around16.6K sentences and over 400K tokens.8 All PATB8All clitics are separated from words in the PATB except forthe definite article +?
@ Al+.tokens are already diacritized and lemma/part-of-speech (POS) disambiguated manually.
Since verbsare regular in their form-to-function mapping, weannotate them automatically.
Nominals account foralmost half of all tokens (?
197K tokens).
Theunique diacritized nominal types are almost 52Kcorresponding to 15,720 unique lemmas.4.2 Annotation SimplificationTo simplify the annotation task, we made the follow-ing decisions.
First, we decided to annotate nomi-nals out of context except for the use of their lem-mas and POS tags, which were already assignedmanually in context in the PATB.
The intuition herebeing that the functional features we are after arenot contextually variable.
We are consciously ig-noring usage in figures-of-speech.
Second, we nor-malized the case/state-variant forms of the num-ber/gender suffixes and removed the definite arti-cle proclitic.
The decision to normalize is condi-tioned on the manually annotated PATB POS tag.The normalized forms preserve the most importantinformation for our task: the stem of the word andthe number/gender suffix.
These two decisions al-low us exploit the PATB POS and lemma annota-tions to reduce the number of annotation decisionsfrom 197K tokens and their lemmas to 21,148 mor-phologically normalized forms and 15,720 lemmas?
an order of magnitude less decisions to make,which made the task more feasible both in terms ofmoney and time.
Of all nouns, adjectives and propernouns, around 4.6% (tokens) and 27.2% (types) haveno lemmas (annotated as DEFAULT, TBupdate, ornolemma).
These cases make our out-of-context an-notation very hard.
We do not currently addressthis issue.
A smaller set of closed class words (778types corresponding to 35,675 tokens), e.g.
pro-nouns and quantifiers, were annotated manually sep-arately.
The annotation speed averaged about 675(words/lemmas) per hour.4.3 Annotation GuidelinesWe summarize the annotation guidelines here due tospace restrictions.
Full guidelines will be presentedin a future publication.
The core annotation task in-volves assigning the correct functional gender, num-ber and rationality to nominals.
Gender can be M ,F , B (both), or U (unknown).
Number can be S, D,359P , or U .
And rationality can be R, I , B,9 N orU .
The annotators were given word clusters eachof which consisting of a lemma and all of its sim-plified inflected forms appearing in the PATB.
Wealso provided the POS and English gloss.
Annota-tors were asked to assign the rationality feature tothe lemma only; and the gender and number featuresto the inflected forms.
Default form-based genderand number are provided.
As for rationality, adjec-tives receive a default N and everything else getsI .
The guidelines explained the form-function dis-crepancy problem, and the various morpho-syntacticagreement rules (Section 2) were given as tests toallow the annotators to make correct decisions.
Theissue figures-of-speech is highlighted as a challengeand annotators are asked to think of different con-texts for the word in question.4.4 Inter-Annotator AgreementWe computed inter-annotator agreement (IAA) overa random set of 397 lemma clusters with 509 wordtypes corresponding to 4,781 tokens.
The type-based IAA scores for words with known lemmas are93.7%, 99.0% and 89.6% for gender, number andrationality respectively.
The corresponding token-based IAA scores are 94.5%, 99.7% and 95.1%.
Therespective Kappa values (Cohen, 1960) for types are0.87, 0.97, 0.82 and for tokens 0.89, 0.99, 0.92.Based on these scores, the number features is theeasiest to annotate, followed by gender and ratio-nality.
This is explainable by the fact that num-ber in Arabic is always expressed morphologicallythrough affix or stem change, while gender is morelexical, and rationality is completely lexical.
Thecorresponding IAA scores for all words (includingwords with unknown lemmas) drop to 86.8%, 94.9%and 82.9% (for types) and 93.5%, 99.2% and 94.0%(for tokens).
The respective Kappa values for typesare 0.74, 0.85, 0.73 and for tokens 0.87, 0.97, 0.90The difference caused by missing lemmas highlightsthe need and value for complete annotations in thePATB.
The overall high scores for IAA suggest thatthe task is not particularly hard for humans to per-form, and that disambiguating information is cru-cial.
Points of disagreement will be addressed infuture extensions of the guidelines.9The rationality value B is used for cases with lemma am-biguity, e.g., 	??J?J?
hyltwn ?Hilton?
can refer to the hotel chainor a member of the Hilton family.5 Corpus AnalysisWe present a quantitative analysis of the annotatedcorpus focusing on the issues that motivated it.5.1 Form-Function Similarity PatternsTable 1 summarizes the different combinations ofform-function values of gender, number and ratio-nality for nominals in our corpus.
In terms of gen-der, the M value seems to be twice as common asF both in form and function.
In 91.4% of all nomi-nals, function and form agree.
Adjectives show themost agreement (98.8%) followed by nouns (92.5%)and then proper nouns (74.6%).
As for number, Sis the dominant value in form (91.8%) and func-tion (83.1%).
Broken plurals ( SP ) are almost 55%of all plurals.
99.5% of proper nouns are singular,which means that rationality is effectively irrelevantfor proper nouns as a feature, since it is only rel-evant morpho-syntactically with plurals.
Althoughthe great majority of nouns are irrational, propernouns tend to be almost equally split between ra-tional and irrational.
In terms of gender and number(jointly), 85% of all nominals have matching formand function values, with adjective having the high-est ratio, followed by nouns and then proper nouns.5.2 Morpho-syntactic Agreement PatternsWe focus on three agreement classes: Noun-Adj(ective), Verb-Subject (VSO and SVO orders)and Number-Noun (multiple configurations).
Weonly consider structural bigrams in the CATIB(Habash and Roth, 2009) dependency version of thetraining portion of the PATB (part 3) used by Mar-ton et al (2011).
See Figure 1 for an example.
Thetotal number of relevant bigrams is 39,561 or almost11.6% of all bigrams.
Over two-thirds are Noun-Adj, and around a quarter are Verb-Subject.
Foreach agreement class, we compare using a simpleagreement rule (parent and child values match) withusing an implementation of the complex agreementrules summarized in Section 2.
We also compareusing form-based features or functional features.10Table 2 presents the percentage of bigrams we de-termine to agree (i.e.
be grammatical) under dif-ferent features and rules.
Overall, simple (equality)10Simple agreement between parent and child in genderalone is 83.2% (form) and 86.0% (function).
The correspondingagreement for number is 82.0% (form) and 72.5% (function).The drop in the last number is due to broken plurals.360Feature Values Noun Adjective Proper All69.2 18.2 12.5 100.0GENM/M 64.5 48.9 71.3 62.5M/F 3.9 1.1 21.1 5.5M/B 0.4 0.0 3.4 0.7F/F 28.0 49.9 3.3 28.9F/M 3.1 0.1 0.8 2.3F/B 0.1 0.0 0.1 0.1NUMS/S 77.2 94.3 99.5 83.1S/P 12.2 1.5 0.4 8.7D/D 1.1 0.9 0.0 1.0P/P 9.5 3.3 0.1 7.2RAT-/I 94.7 ?
45.3 71.2-/R 5.1 ?
51.2 9.9-/B 0.3 ?
3.5 0.6-/N ?
100.0 ?
18.2GEN+NUM =/= 83.6 97.4 74.5 85.0Table 1: Form-function discrepancy in nominals.
All thenumbers are percentages.
Numbers in the first row arepercentage of all nominals.
Numbers in each columnassociated with a particular feature (or feature combi-nation) and a particular POS are the percentage of oc-currences within the POS.
The second column specifies(Form/Function) values.
=/= signifies complete match.form-based gender and number agreement betweenparent and child is only 66.7%.
Using functionalvalues, the simple gender and number agreementmoves only to 68.5%.
Introducing complex agree-ment rules with form-based values (using the defaultN value for rationality of adjectives and I for otherclasses) increases grammaticality scores to 80.3%overall.
However, with using both functional mor-phology features and complex agreement rules, thegrammaticality score jumps to 93.6% overall.
Theseresults validate the need for both functional featuresand complex agreement rules in Arabic.5.3 Manual Analysis of Agreement ProblemsThe cases we considered ungrammatical when ap-plying complex agreement rules with functional fea-tures above add up to 2,540 instances.
Out of these,we took a random sample of 423 cases and analyzedit manually.
About 50% of all problems are the re-sult of human annotation errors.
Almost two-thirdsof these errors involve incorrect rationality assign-ment and almost one-third involved incorrect gen-der.
Incorrect number assignment occurs around5% of the time.
Treebank errors (as in POS ortree structure) are responsible for 20% of all agree-Features ?
AgreementForm-based FunctionalConstructions Simple Rules Simple RulesNoun-Adj (69.2) 66.7 81.7 69.2 94.8Verb-Subj (26.7) 73.7 81.5 75.0 90.2Num-Noun (4.0) 21.6 48.8 14.5 94.4All (100.0) 66.7 80.3 68.5 93.6Table 2: Analysis of gender+number agreement patternsin the annotated corpus.
All numbers are percentages.ment problems.
Structure and POS tags are almostequal in their contribution.
The rest of the agree-ment problems (?30%) are the result of special rulesor figures-of-speech that are not handled.
Figuresof speech account for about 7% of all error cases(or less than 0.5% of all nominals).
The most com-mon cases of unhandled rules include not modelingconjunctions, which affect number agreement, fol-lowed by gender-number invariable forms of someadjectives.
After this error analysis, we identi-fied 379 lemmas involved in incorrect rationality-affected agreement (as per our rules).
All of thesecases had a PI features but did not agreed as FS.Out of these lemmas, 204 were corrected manuallyas R. The functional agreement with rules jumpedfrom 93.6% to 95.7% (a 33% error reduction).6 Conclusions and Future WorkWe presented a large resource enriched with latentfeatures necessary for modeling morpho-syntacticagreement in Arabic.
In future work, we plan to useboth corpus annotations and agreement rules to auto-matically learn functional features for unseen wordsand detect and correct annotation errors.
We alsoplan to extend agreement rules to include complexstructures beyond bigrams.AcknowledgmentsWe would like to thank Mona Diab, Owen Rambow,Yuval Marton, Tim Buckwalter, Otakar Smr?, ReemFaraj, and May Ahmar for helpful discussions andfeedback.
We also would like to especially thankAhmed El Kholy and Jamila El-Gizuli for help withthe annotations.
The first author was funded bya scholarship from the Saudi Arabian Ministry ofHigher Education.
The rest of the work was fundedunder DARPA projects number HR0011-08-C-0004and HR0011-08-C-0110.361ReferencesRamzi Abb?s, Joseph Dichy, and Mohamed Hassoun.2004.
The Architecture of a Standard Arabic LexicalDatabase.
Some Figures, Ratios and Categories fromthe DIINAR.1 Source Program.
In Ali Farghaly andKarine Megerdoomian, editors, COLING 2004 Com-putational Approaches to Arabic Script-based Lan-guages, pages 15?22, Geneva, Switzerland, August28th.
COLING.Imad Al-Sughaiyer and Ibrahim Al-Kharashi.
2004.Arabic Morphological Analysis Techniques: A Com-prehensive Survey.
Journal of the American Societyfor Information Science and Technology, 55(3):189?213.Mohamed Altantawy, Nizar Habash, Owen Rambow, andIbrahim Saleh.
2010.
Morphological Analysis andGeneration of Arabic Nouns: A Morphemic Func-tional Approach.
In Proceedings of the seventh In-ternational Conference on Language Resources andEvaluation (LREC), Valletta, Malta.Mohammed Attia.
2008.
Handling Arabic Morpholog-ical and Syntactic Ambiguity within the LFG Frame-work with a View to Machine Translation.
Ph.D. the-sis, The University of Manchester, Manchester, UK.Tim Buckwalter.
2004.
Buckwalter Arabic Morpholog-ical Analyzer Version 2.0.
Linguistic Data Consor-tium, University of Pennsylvania.
LDC Cat alog No.
:LDC2004L02, ISBN 1-58563-324-0.J.
Cohen.
1960.
A Coefficient of Agreement for NominalScales.
Educational and Psychological Measurement,20(1):37.Ali Dada.
2007.
Implementation of the Arabic Numeralsand their Syntax in GF.
In Proceedings of the 2007Workshop on Computational Approaches to SemiticLanguages: Common Issues and Resources, pages 9?16, Prague, Czech Republic.Khaled Elghamry, Rania Al-Sabbagh, and Nagwa El-Zeiny.
2008.
Cue-based bootstrapping of Arabic se-mantic features.
In JADT 2008: 9es Journ?es interna-tionales d?Analyse statistique des Donn?es Textuelles.Abduelbaset Goweder, Massimo Poesio, Anne De Roeck,and Jeff Reynolds.
2004.
Identifying Broken Pluralsin Unvowelised Arabic Text.
In Dekang Lin and DekaiWu, editors, Proceedings of EMNLP 2004, pages 246?253, Barcelona, Spain, July.Nizar Habash and Ryan Roth.
2009.
CATiB: TheColumbia Arabic Treebank.
In Proceedings of theACL-IJCNLP 2009 Conference Short Papers, pages221?224, Suntec, Singapore.Nizar Habash, Abdelhadi Soudi, and Tim Buckwalter.2007.
On Arabic Transliteration.
In A. van den Boschand A. Soudi, editors, Arabic Computational Mor-phology: Knowledge-based and Empirical Methods.Springer.Nizar Habash.
2010.
Introduction to Arabic NaturalLanguage Processing.
Morgan & Claypool Publish-ers.Clive Holes.
2004.
Modern Arabic: Structures, Func-tions, and Varieties.
Georgetown Classics in Ara-bic Language and Linguistics.
Georgetown UniversityPress.Mohamed Maamouri, Ann Bies, Tim Buckwalter, andWigdan Mekki.
2004.
The Penn Arabic Treebank:Building a Large-Scale Annotated Arabic Corpus.
InNEMLAR Conference on Arabic Language Resourcesand Tools, pages 102?109, Cairo, Egypt.Yuval Marton, Nizar Habash, and Owen Rambow.
2011.Improving Arabic Dependency Parsing with Form-based and Functional Morphological Features.
In Pro-ceedings of the 49th Annual Meeting of the Associ-ation for Computational Linguistics (ACL?11), Port-land, Oregon, USA.Otakar Smr?
and Jan Hajic?.
2006.
The Other ArabicTreebank: Prague Dependencies and Functions.
InAli Farghaly, editor, Arabic Computational Linguis-tics: Current Implementations.
CSLI Publications.Otakar Smr?.
2007a.
ElixirFM ?
implementation offunctional arabic morphology.
In ACL 2007 Proceed-ings of the Workshop on Computational Approaches toSemitic Languages: Common Issues and Resources,pages 1?8, Prague, Czech Republic.
ACL.Otakar Smr?.
2007b.
Functional Arabic Morphology.Formal System and Implementation.
Ph.D. thesis,Charles University in Prague, Prague, Czech Repub-lic.Abdelhadi Soudi, Antal van den Bosch, and G?nter Neu-mann, editors.
2007.
Arabic Computational Morphol-ogy.
Knowledge-based and Empirical Methods, vol-ume 38 of Text, Speech and Language Technology.Springer, August.362
