Proceedings of the ACL-HLT 2011 Student Session, pages 24?29,Portland, OR, USA 19-24 June 2011. c?2011 Association for Computational LinguisticsExtracting and Classifying Urdu Multiword ExpressionsAnnette HautliDepartment of LinguisticsUniversity of Konstanz, Germanyannette.hautli@uni-konstanz.deSebastian SulgerDepartment of LinguisticsUniversity of Konstanz, Germanysebastian.sulger@uni-konstanz.deAbstractThis paper describes a method for automati-cally extracting and classifying multiword ex-pressions (MWEs) for Urdu on the basis of arelatively small unannotated corpus (around8.12 million tokens).
The MWEs are extractedby an unsupervised method and classified intotwo distinct classes, namely locations and per-son names.
The classification is based on sim-ple heuristics that take the co-occurrence ofMWEs with distinct postpositions into account.The resulting classes are evaluated against ahand-annotated gold standard and achieve anf-score of 0.5 and 0.746 for locations andpersons, respectively.
A target application isthe Urdu ParGram grammar, where MWEs areneeded to generate a more precise syntacticand semantic analysis.1 IntroductionMultiword expressions (MWEs) are expressionswhich can be semantically and syntactically idiosyn-cratic in nature; acting as a single unit, their mean-ing is not always predictable from their components.Their identification is therefore an important task forany Natural Language Processing (NLP) applicationthat goes beyond the analysis of pure surface struc-ture, in particular for languages with few other NLPtools available.There is a vast amount of literature on extract-ing and classifying MWEs automatically; many ap-proaches rely on already available resources that aidduring the acquisition process.
In the case of theIndo-Aryan language Urdu, a lack of linguistic re-sources such as annotated corpora or lexical knowl-edge bases impedes the task of detecting and classi-fying MWEs.
Nevertheless, statistical measures andlanguage-specific syntactic information can be em-ployed to extract and classify MWEs.Therefore, the method described in this paper canpartly overcome the bottleneck of resource sparsity,despite the relatively small size of the available cor-pus and the simplistic approach taken.
With the helpof heuristics as to the occurrence of Urdu MWEs withcharacteristic postpositions and other cues, it is pos-sible to cluster the MWEs into two groups: locationsand person names.
It is also possible to detect junkMWEs.
The classification is then evaluated against ahand-annotated gold standard of Urdu MWEs.An NLP tool where the MWEs can be employed isthe Urdu ParGram grammar (Butt and King, 2007;Bo?gel et al, 2007; Bo?gel et al, 2009), which isbased on the Lexical-Functional Grammar (LFG)formalism (Dalrymple, 2001).
For this task, differ-ent types of MWEs need to be distinguished as theyare treated differently in the syntactic analysis.The paper is structured as follows: Section 2 pro-vides a brief review of related work, in particularon MWE extraction in Indo-Aryan languages.
Sec-tion 3 describes our methodology, with the evalua-tion following in Section 4.
Section 5 presents theUrdu ParGram Grammar and its treatment of MWEs,followed by the discussion and the summary of thepaper in Section 6.2 Related WorkMWE extraction and classification has been the focusof a large amount of research.
However, much work24has been conducted for well-resourced languagessuch as English, benefiting from large enough cor-pora (Attia et al, 2010), parallel data (Zarrie?
andKuhn, 2009) and NLP tools such as taggers or depen-dency parsers (Martens and Vandeghinste (2010),among others) and lexical resources (Pearce, 2001).Related work on Indo-Aryan languages hasmostly focused on the extraction of complex pred-icates, with the focus on Hindi (Mukerjee et al,2006; Chakrabarti et al, 2008; Sinha, 2009) andBengali (Das et al, 2010; Chakraborty and Bandy-opadhyay, 2010).
While complex predicates alsomake up a large part of the verbal inventory in Urdu(Butt, 1993), for the scope of this paper, we restrictourselves to classifying MWEs as locations or personnames and filter out junk bigrams.Our approach deviates in several aspects to the re-lated work in Indo-Aryan: First, we do not concen-trate on specific POS constructions or dependencyrelations, but use an unannotated middle-sized cor-pus.
For classification, we use simple heuristics bytaking the postpositions of the MWEs into account.These can provide hints as to the nature of the MWE.3 Methodology3.1 Extraction and Identification of MWECandidatesThe bigram extraction was carried out on a corpus ofaround 8.12 million tokens of Urdu newspaper text,collected by the Center for Research in Urdu Lan-guage Processing (CRULP) (Hussain, 2008).
We didnot perform any pre-processing such as POS taggingor stop word removal.Due to the relatively small size of our corpus, thefrequency cut-off for bigrams was set to 5, i.e.
allbigrams that occurred five times or more in the cor-pus were considered.
This rendered a list of 172,847bigrams which were then ranked with the X2 asso-ciation measure, using the UCS toolkit.1The reasons for employing the X2 associationmeasure are twofold.
First, papers using compara-tively sized corpora reported encouraging results forsimilar experiments (Ramisch et al, 2008; Kizito etal., 2009).
Second, initial manual comparison be-tween MWE lists ranked according to all measures1Available at http://www.collocations.de.
SeeEvert (2004) for documentation.implemented in the UCS toolkit revealed the mostconvincing results for the X2 test.For the time being, we focus on bigram MWEextraction.
While the UCS toolkit readily supportswork on Unicode-based languages such as Urdu,it does not support trigram extraction; other freelyavailable tools such as TEXT-NSP2 do come withtrigram support, but cannot handle Unicode script.As a consequence, we currently implement our ownscripts to overcome these limitations.3.2 Syntactic CuesThe clustering approach taken in this paper is basedon Urdu-specific syntactic information that can begathered straightforwardly from the corpus.
Urduhas a number of postpositions that can be used toidentify the nature of an MWE.
Typographical cuessuch as initial capital letters do not exist in the Urduscript.Locative postpositions The postposition QK (par)either expresses location on something which has asurface or that an object is next to something.3 Inaddition, it expresses movement to a destination.
(1) ?GA?
QK I.K.
@ ?K ?KXAKnAdiyah t3ul AbEb par gAyINadya Tel Aviv to go.Perf.Fem.Sg?Nadya went to Tel Aviv.???
(mEN) expresses location in or at a point inspace or time, whereas ?K (tak) denotes that some-thing extends to a specific point in space.
???
(sE)shows movement away from a certain point in space.These postpositions mostly occur with locationsand are thus syntactic indicators for this type ofMWE.
However, in special cases, they can also occurwith other nouns, in which case we predict wrongresults during classification.Person-indicating syntactic cues To classify anMWE as a person, we consider syntactic cues thatusually occur after such MWEs.
The ergative marker?G (nE) describes an agentive subject in transitive2Available at http://search.cpan.org/dist/Text-NSP.
See Banerjee and Pedersen (2003) fordocumentation.3The employed transliteration scheme is explained in Maliket al (2010).25Locative Instr.
Ergative Possessive Acc./Dat.QK (par) ??
(mEN) ?K (tak) ???
(sE) ?G (nE) A?
(kA) ??
(kE) ??
(kI) ??
(kO)LOC?
?
?
??
?
?
?
?PERS ?
?
??
?
?
?
?
?JUNK ?
?
?
?
?
?
?
?
?Table 1: Heuristics for clustering Urdu MWEs by different postpositionssentences; therefore, it forms part of our heuristicfor finding person MWEs.
(2) @PA?
??
?
?AK?G ?KXAKnAdiyah nE yAsIn kO mArANadya Erg Yasin Acc hit.Perf.Masc.Sg?Nadya hit Yasin.
?The same holds for the possessive markersA?
(kA), ??
(kE) and ??
(kI).The accusative and dative case marker ??
(kO) isalso a possible indicator that the preceding MWE isa person.These cues can also appear with common nouns,but the combination of MWE and syntactic cue hintsto a person MWE.
However, consider cases such asNew Delhi said that the taxes will rise., where NewDelhi is treated as an agent with nE attached to it,providing a wrong clue as to the nature of the MWE.3.3 Classifying Urdu MWEsThe classification of the extracted bigrams is solelybased on syntactic information as described in theprevious section.
For every bigram, the postpo-sitions that it occurs with are extracted from thecorpus, together with the frequency of the co-occurrence.Table 1 shows which postpositions are expectedto occur with which type of MWE.
The first stipula-tion is that only bigrams that occur with one of thelocative postpositions plus the ablative/instrumentalmarker ???
(sE) one or more times are consideredto be locative MWEs (LOC).
In contrast, bigramsare judged as persons (PERS) when they co-occurwith all postpositions apart from the locative post-positions one or more times.
If a bigram occurs withnone of the postpositions, it is judged as being junk(JUNK).
As a consequence this means that theoreti-cally valid MWEs such as complex predicates, whichnever occur with a postposition, are misclassified asbeing JUNK.Without any further processing, the resulting clus-ters are then evaluated against a hand-annotated goldstandard, as described in the following section.4 Evaluation4.1 Gold StandardOur gold standard comprises the 1300 highestranked Urdu multiword candidates extracted fromthe CRULP corpus, using the X2 association mea-sure.
The bigrams are then hand-annotated by a na-tive speaker of Urdu and clustered into the followingclasses: locations, person names, companies, mis-cellaneous MWEs and junk.
For the scope of thispaper, we restrict ourselves to classifying MWEs aseither locations or person names,.
This also lies inthe nature of the corpus: companies can usually bedetected by endings such as ?Corp.?
or ?Ltd.
?, as isthe case in English.
However, these markers are of-ten left out and are not present in the corpus at hand.Therefore, they cannot be used for our clustering.The class of miscellaneous MWEs contains complexpredicates that we do not attempt to deal with here.In total, the gold standard comprises 30 compa-nies, 95 locations, 411 person names, 512 miscella-neous MWEs (mostly complex predicates) and 252junk bigrams.
We have not analyzed the gold stan-dard any further, and restricting it to n< 1300 mightimprove the evaluation results.4.2 ResultsThe bigrams are classified according to the heuris-tics outlined in Section 3.3.
Evaluating against thehand-annotated gold standard yields the results inTable 2.While the results are encouraging for persons withan f-score of 0.746, there is still room for improve-ment for locative MWEs.
Part of the problem for per-26Precision Recall F-Score #total #foundLOC 0.453 0.558 0.5 95 43PERS 0.727 0.765 0.746 411 298JUNK 0.472 0.317 0.379 252 119Table 2: Results for MWE clusteringson names is that Urdu names are generally longerthan two words, and as we have not considered tri-grams yet, it is impossible to find a postposition afteran incomplete though generally valid name.
Loca-tions tend to have the same problem, however thereasons for missing out on a large part of the loca-tive MWEs are not quite clear and are currently beinginvestigated.Junk bigrams can be detected with an f-score of0.379.
Due to the heterogeneous nature of the mis-cellaneous MWEs (e.g., complex predicates), manyof them are judged as being junk because they neveroccur with a postposition.
If one could detect com-plex predicate and, possibly, other subgroups fromthe miscellaneous class, then classifying the junkMWEs would become easier.5 Integration into the Urdu ParGramGrammarThe extracted MWEs are integrated into the UrduParGram grammar (Butt and King, 2007; Bo?gel etal., 2007; Bo?gel et al, 2009), a computational gram-mar for Urdu running with XLE (Crouch et al, 2010)and based on the syntax formalism of LFG (Dal-rymple, 2001).
XLE grammars are generally hand-written and not acquired a machine learning pro-cess or the like.
This makes grammar development avery conscious task and it is imperative to deal withMWEs in order to achieve a linguistically valid anddeep syntactic analysis that can be used for an addi-tional semantic analysis.MWEs that are correctly classified according to thegold standard are automatically integrated into themultiword lexicon of the grammar, accompanied byinformation about their nature (see example (3)).In general, grammar input is first tokenized by astandard tokenizer that separates the input string intosingle tokens and replaces the white spaces with aspecial token boundary symbol.
Each token is thenpassed through a cascade of finite-state morpholog-ical analyzers (Beesley and Karttunen, 2003).
ForMWEs, the matter is different as they are treated asa single unit to preserve the semantic informationthey carry.
Apart from the meaning preservation, in-tegrating MWEs into the grammar reduces parsingambiguity and parsing time, while the perspicuity ofthe syntactic analyses is increased (Butt et al, 1999).In order to prevent the MWEs from being inde-pendently analyzed by the finite-state morphology,a look-up is performed in a transducer which onlycontains MWEs with their morphological informa-tion.
So instead of analyzing t3ul and AbEb sep-arately, for example, they are analyzed as a sin-gle item carrying the morphological information+Noun+Location.4(3) t3ul` AbEb: /t3ul` AbEb/ +Noun+LocationThe resulting stem and tag sequence is thenpassed on to the grammar.
See (4) for an exampleand Figures 1 and 2 for the corresponding c- andf-structure; the +Location tag in (3) is used toproduce the location analysis in the f-structure.
Notealso that t3ul AbEb is displayed as a multiwordunder the N node in the c-structure.
(4) ?GA?
QK I.K.
@ ?K ?KXAKnAdiyah t3ul AbEb par gAyINadya Tel Aviv to go.Perf.Fem.Sg?Nadya went to Tel Aviv.
?CS 1: ROOTSadjSKPNPNnAdiyahKPNPNt3ul AbEbKparVCmainVgAyIFigure 1: C-structure for (4)4The ` symbol is an escape character, yielding a literal whitespace.27"nAdiyah t3ul AbEb par gAyI"'gA<[1:nAdiyah]>'PRED'nAdiyah'PREDnamePROPER-TYPEPROPERNSEMproperNSYNNTYPECASE nom, GEND fem, NUM sg, PERS 31SUBJ't3ul AbEb'PREDlocationPROPER-TYPEPROPERNSEMproperNSYNNTYPEADJUNCT-TYPE loc, CASE loc, NUM sg, PERS 321ADJUNCTASPECT perf, MOOD indicativeTNS-ASPCLAUSE-TYPE decl, PASSIVE -, VTYPE main42Figure 2: F-structure for (4)6 Discussion, Summary and Future WorkDespite the simplistic approach for extracting andclustering Urdu MWEs taken in this paper, the re-sults are encouraging with f-scores of 0.5 and 0.746for locations and person names, respectively.
Weare well aware that this paper does not present acomplete approach to classifying Urdu multiwords,but considering the targeted tool, the Urdu ParGramgrammar, this methodology provides us with a set ofMWEs that can be implemented to improve the syn-tactic analyses.The methodology provided here can also guideMWE work in other languages facing the same re-source sparsity as Urdu, given that distinctive syn-tactic cues are available in the language.For Urdu, the syntactic cues are good indica-tions of the nature of the MWE; future work onthis subtopic might prove beneficial to the clusteringregarding companies, complex predicates and junkMWEs.
Another area for future work is to extendthe extraction and classification to trigrams to im-prove the results especially for locations and personnames.
We also consider harvesting data sourcesfrom the web such as lists of cities, common namesand companies in Pakistan and India.
Such lists arenot numerous for Urdu, but they may neverthelesshelp to generate a larger MWE lexicon.AcknowledgmentsWe would like to thank Samreen Khan for annotat-ing the gold standard, as well as the anonymous re-viewers for their valuable comments.
This researchwas in part supported by the Deutsche Forschungs-gemeinschaft (DFG).ReferencesMohammed Attia, Antonio Toral, Lamia Tounsi, PavelPecina, and Josef van Genabith.
2010.
AutomaticExtraction of Arabic Multiword Expressions.
In Pro-ceedings of the Workshop on Multiword Expressions:from Theory to Applications (MWE 2010).Satanjeev Banerjee and Ted Pedersen.
2003.
The De-sign, Implementation and Use of the Ngram StatisticsPackage.
In Proceedings of the Fourth InternationalConference on Intelligent Text Processing and Com-putational Linguistics.Kenneth Beesley and Lauri Karttunen.
2003.
Finite StateMorphology.
CSLI Publications, Stanford, CA.Tina Bo?gel, Miriam Butt, Annette Hautli, and SebastianSulger.
2007.
Developing a Finite-State Morpholog-ical Analyzer for Urdu and Hindi: Some Issues.
InProceedings of FSMNLP07, Potsdam, Germany.Tina Bo?gel, Miriam Butt, Annette Hautli, and SebastianSulger.
2009.
Urdu and the Modular Architecture ofParGram.
In Proceedings of the Conference on Lan-guage and Technology 2009 (CLT09).Miriam Butt and Tracy Holloway King.
2007.
Urdu ina Parallel Grammar Development Environment.
Lan-guage Resources and Evaluation, 41(2):191?207.Miriam Butt, Tracy Holloway King, Mar?
?a-EugeniaNin?o, and Fre?de?rique Segond.
1999.
A GrammarWriter?s Cookbook.
CSLI Publications.Miriam Butt.
1993.
The Structure of Complex Predicatesin Urdu.
Ph.D. thesis, Stanford University.Debasri Chakrabarti, Vaijayanthi M. Sarma, and PushpakBhattacharyya.
2008.
Hindi Compound Verbs andtheir Automatic Extraction.
In Proceedings of COL-ING 2008, pages 27?30.Tanmoy Chakraborty and Sivaji Bandyopadhyay.
2010.Identification of Reduplication in Bengali Corpus andtheir Semantic Analysis: A Rule-Based Approach.In Proceedings of the Workshop on Multiword Ex-pressions: from Theory to Applications (MWE 2010),pages 72?75.Dick Crouch, Mary Dalrymple, Ronald M. Kaplan,Tracy Holloway King, John T. Maxwell III, and PaulaNewman, 2010.
XLE Documentation.
Palo Alto Re-search Center.Mary Dalrymple.
2001.
Lexical Functional Grammar,volume 34 of Syntax and Semantics.
Academic Press.Dipankar Das, Santanu Pal, Tapabrata Mondal, TanmoyChakraborty, and Sivaji Bandyopadhyay.
2010.
Au-tomatic Extraction of Complex Predicates in Bengali.In Proceedings of the Workshop on Multiword Ex-pressions: from Theory to Applications (MWE 2010),pages 37?45.28Stefan Evert.
2004.
The Statistics of Word Cooccur-rences: Word Pairs and Collocations.
Ph.D. thesis,IMS, University of Stuttgart.Sarmad Hussain.
2008.
Resources for Urdu LanguageProcessing.
In Proceedings of the 6th Workshop onAsian Language Resources, IJCNLP?08.John Kizito, Ismail Fahmi, Erik Tjong Kim Sang, GosseBouma, and John Nerbonne.
2009.
ComputationalLinguistics and the History of Science.
In LiborioDibattista, editor, Storia della Scienza e LinguisticaComputazionale.
FrancoAngeli.Muhammad Kamran Malik, Tafseer Ahmed, SebastianSulger, Tina Bo?gel, Atif Gulzar, Ghulam Raza, Sar-mad Hussain, and Miriam Butt.
2010.
Transliter-ating Urdu for a Broad-Coverage Urdu/Hindi LFGGrammar.
In Proceedings of the Seventh Conferenceon International Language Resources and Evaluation(LREC?10).Scott Martens and Vincent Vandeghinste.
2010.
An Effi-cient, Generic Approach to Extracting Multi-Word Ex-pressions from Dependency Trees.
In Proceedings ofthe Workshop on Multiword Expressions: from Theoryto Applications (MWE 2010), pages 84?87.Amitabha Mukerjee, Ankit Soni, and Achla M. Raina.2006.
Detecting Complex Predicates in Hindi usingPOS Projection across Parallel Corpora.
In Proceed-ings of the Workshop on Multiword Expressions: Iden-tifying and Exploiting Underlying Properties (MWE?06), pages 28?35.David Pearce.
2001.
Synonymy in Collocation Extrac-tion.
In WordNet and Other Lexical Resources: Appli-cations, Extensions & Customizations, pages 41?46.Carlos Ramisch, Paulo Schreiner, Marco Idiart, and AlineVillavicencio.
2008.
An Evaluation of Methods forthe Extraction of Multiword Expressions.
In Proceed-ings of the Workshop on Multiword Expressions: To-wards a Shared Task for Multiword Expressions (MWE2008).R.
Mahesh K. Sinha.
2009.
Mining Complex Predicatesin Hindi Using a Parallel Hindi-English Corpus.
InProceedings of the 2009 Workshop on Multiword Ex-pressions, ACL-IJCNLP 2009, pages 40?46.Sina Zarrie?
and Jonas Kuhn.
2009.
Exploiting Transla-tional Correspondences for Pattern-Independent MWEIdentification.
In Proceedings of the 2009 Workshopon Multiword Expressions, ACL-IJCNLP 2009, pages23?30.29
