Proceedings of the ACL-HLT 2011 System Demonstrations, pages 14?19,Portland, Oregon, USA, 21 June 2011. c?2011 Association for Computational LinguisticsExploiting Readymades in Linguistic Creativity:A System Demonstration of the Jigsaw BardTony VealeYanfen HaoSchool of Computer Science and Informatics, School of Computer Science and Informatics,University College Dublin, University College Dublin,Belfield, Dublin D4, Ireland.
Belfield, Dublin D4, Ireland.Tony.Veale@UCD.ie Yanfen.Hao@UCD.ieDemonstration System can be viewed at: http://www.educatedinsolence.com/jigsawAbstractLarge lexical resources, such as corporaand databases of Web ngrams, are a richsource of pre-fabricated phrases that can bereused in many different contexts.
How-ever, one must be careful in how these re-sources are used, and noted writers such asGeorge Orwell have argued that the use ofcanned phrases encourages sloppy thinkingand results in poor communication.
None-theless, while Orwell prized home-madephrases over the readymade variety, thereis a vibrant movement in modern art whichshifts artistic creation from the productionof novel artifacts to the clever reuse ofreadymades or objets trouv?s.
We describehere a system that makes creative reuse ofthe linguistic readymades in the Googlengrams.
Our system, the Jigsaw Bard, thusowes more to Marcel Duchamp than toGeorge Orwell.
We demonstrate how tex-tual readymades can be identified and har-vested on a large scale, and used to drive amodest form of linguistic creativity.1 IntroductionIn a much-quoted essay from 1946 entitled Politicsand the English Language, the writer and thinkerGeorge Orwell outlines his prescription for haltinga perceived decline in the English language.
Heargues that language and thought form a tightfeedback cycle that can be either virtuous or vi-cious.
Lazy language can thus promote lazy think-ing, and vice versa.
Orwell pours scorn on twoparticular forms of lazy language: the expedientuse of overly familiar metaphors merely becausethey come quickly to mind, even though they havelost their power to evoke vivid images,; and the useof readymade turns of phrase as substitutes for in-dividually crafted expressions.
While a good writerbends words to his meaning, Orwell worries that alazy writer bends his meaning to convenient words.Orwell is especially scornful about readymadephrases which, when over-used, ?are tacked to-gether like the sections of a prefabricated hen-house.?
A writer who operates by ?mechanicallyrepeating the familiar phrases?
and ?gumming to-gether long strips of words which have alreadybeen set in order by someone else?
has, he argues,?gone some distance toward turning himself into amachine.?
Given his derogatory mechanistic viewof the use of readymade phrases, Orwell would notbe surprised to learn that computers are highly pro-ficient in the large-scale use of familiar phrases,whether acquired from large text corpora or fromthe Google ngrams (see Brants and Franz, 2006).Though argued with passion, there are seriousholes in Orwell?s logic.
If one should ?never  use ametaphor, simile or other figure of speech whichyou are used to seeing in print?, how then are fa-miliar metaphors ever to become dead metaphorsand thereby enrich the language with new termsand new senses?
And if one cannot use familiarreadymade phrases, how can one make playful ?and creative ?
allusions to the writings of others, or14mischievously subvert the conventional wisdom ofplatitudes and clich?s?
Orwell?s use of the termreadymade is entirely negative, yet the term is al-together more respectable in the world of modernart, thanks to its use by artists such as MarcelDuchamp.
For many artists, a readymade object isnot a substitute, but a starting point, for creativity.Also called an objet trouv?
or found object, areadymade emerges from an artist?s encounter withan object whose aesthetic merits are overlooked inits banal, everyday contexts of use; when this ob-ject is moved to an explicitly artistic context, suchas an art gallery, viewers are better able to appreci-ate these merits.
The artist?s insight is to recognizethe transformational power of this non-obviouscontext switch.
Perhaps the most famous (and no-torious) readymade in the world of art is MarcelDuchamp?s Fountain, a humble urinal that be-comes an elegantly curved piece of sculpture whenviewed with the right mindset.
Duchamp referredto his objets trouv?s as ?assisted readymades?
be-cause they allow an artist to remake the act ofcreation as one of pure insight and inspired recog-nition rather than one of manual craftsmanship (seeTaylor, 2009).
In computational terms, theDuchampian notion of a readymade allows crea-tivity to be modeled not as a construction problembut as a decision problem.
A computationalDuchamp need not explore an abstract conceptualspace of potential ideas, as in Boden (1994).
How-ever, a Duchampian agent must instead be exposedto the multitude of potentially inspiring real-worldstimuli that a human artist encounters everyday.Readymades represent a serendipitous form ofcreativity that is poorly served by exploratorymodels of creativity, such as that of Boden (1994),and better served by the investment models such asthe buy-low-sell-high theory of Sternberg and Lu-bart (1995).
In this view, creators and artists findunexpected or untapped value in unfashionableobjects or ideas that already exist, and quicklymove their gaze elsewhere once the public at largecome to recognize this value.
Duchampian creatorsinvest in everyday objects, just as Duchamp foundartistic merit in urinals, bottles and combs.
From alinguistic perspective, these everyday objects arecommonplace words and phrases which, whenwrenched from their conventional contexts of use,are free to take on enhanced meanings and provideadditional returns to the investor.
The realm inwhich a maker of linguistic readymades operates isnot the real world, and not an abstract conceptualspace, but the realm of texts: large corpora becomerich hunting grounds for investors in linguistic ob-jets trouv?s.This proposal is demonstrated in computa-tional form in the following sections.
We showhow a rich vocabulary of cultural stereotypes canbe acquired from the Web, and how this vocabu-lary facilitates the implementation of a decisionprocedure for recognizing potential readymades inlarge corpora ?
in this case, the Google database ofWeb ngrams (Brants and Franz, 2006).
This deci-sion procedure provides a robust basis for a simile-generation system called The Jigsaw Bard.
Thecognitive / linguistic intuitions that underpin theBard?s concept of textual readymades are put tothe empirical test in section 5.
While readymadesremain a contentious notion in the public?s appre-ciation of artistic creativity ?
despite Duchamp?sFountain being considered one of the most influ-ential artworks of the 20thcentury ?
we shall showthat the notion of a linguistic readymade has sig-nificant practical merit in the realms of text gen-eration and computational creativity.2 Linguistic ReadymadesReadymades are the result of artistic appropria-tion, in which an object with cultural resonance ?an image, a phrase, a quote, a name, a thing ?
is re-used in a new context with a new meaning.
As afertile source of cultural reference points, languageis an equally fertile medium for appropriation.Thus, in the constant swirl of language and culture,movie quotes suggest song lyrics, which in turnsuggest movie titles, which suggest book titles, orrestaurant names, or the names of racehorses, andso on, and on.
The 1996 movie The Usual Suspectstakes its name from a memorable scene in 1942?sCasablanca, as does the Woody Allen play andmovie Play it Again Sam.
The 2010 art documen-tary Exit Through the Gift Shop, by graffiti artistBanksy, takes its name from a banal sign some-times seen in museums and galleries: the sign,suggestive as it is of creeping commercialism,makes the perfect readymade for a film that la-ments the mediocrity of commercialized art.Appropriations can also be combined to pro-duce novel mashups; consider, for instance, the useof tweets from rapper Kanye West as alternate15captions for cartoon images from the New Yorkermagazine (see hashtag #KanyeNew-YorkerTweets).Hashtags can themselves be linguistic readymades.When free-speech advocates use the hashtag#IAMSpartacus  to show solidarity with userswhose tweets have incurred the wrath of the law,they are appropriating an emotional line from the1960 film Spartacus.
Linguistic readymades, then,are well-formed text fragments that are oftenhighly quotable because they carry some figurativecontent which can be reused in different contexts.A quote like ?round up the usual suspects?
or?I am Spartacus?
requires a great deal of culturalknowledge to appreciate.
Since literal semanticsonly provides a small part of their meaning, acomputer?s ability to recognize linguistic ready-mades is only as good as the cultural knowledge atits disposal.
We thus explore here a more modestform of readymade ?
phrases that can be used asevocative image builders in similes ?
as in:a wet haddocksnow in Januarya robot fisha bullet-ridden corpseEach phrase can be found in the Google 1T data-base of Web ngrams ?
snippets of Web text (of oneto five words) that occur on the web with a fre-quency of 40 or higher (Brants and Franz, 2006).Each is likely a literal description of a real objector event ?
even ?robot fish?, which describes anautonomous marine vehicle whose movementsmimic real fish.
But each exhibits figurative po-tential as well, providing a memorable descriptionof physical or emotional coldness.
Whether or noteach was ever used in a figurative sense before isnot the point: once this potential is recognized,each phrase becomes a reusable linguistic ready-made for the construction of a vivid figurativecomparison, as in ?as cold as a robot fish?.
Wenow consider the building blocks from which thesecomparisons can be ready-made..3 A Vocabulary of Cultural StereotypesHow does a computer acquire the knowledge thatfish, snow, January, bullets and corpses are culturalsignifiers of coldness?
Much the same way thathumans acquire this knowledge: by attending tothe way these signifiers are used by others, espe-cially when they are used in cultural clich?s likeproverbial similes (e.g., ?as cold as a fish?
).In fact, folk similes are an important vector inthe transmission of cultural knowledge: they pointto, and exploit, the shared cultural touchstones thatspeakers and listeners alike can use to constructand intuit meanings.
Taylor (1954) cataloguedthousands of proverbial comparisons and similesfrom California, identifying just as many buildingblocks in the construction of new phrases and figu-rative meanings.
Only the most common similescan be found in dictionaries, as shown by Norrick(1986), while Moon (2008) demonstrates thatlarge-scale corpus analysis is needed to identifyfolk similes with a breadth approaching that ofTaylor?s study.
However, Veale and Hao (2007)show that the World-Wide Web is the ultimate re-source for harvesting similes.Veale and Hao use the Google API to find manyinstances of the pattern ?as ADJ as a|an *?
on theweb, where ADJ is an adjectival property and * isthe Google wildcard.
WordNet (Fellbaum, 1998) isused to provide a set of over 2,000 different valuesfor ADJ, and the text snippets returned by Googleare parsed to extract the basic simile bindings.Once the bindings are annotated to remove noise,as well as frequent uses of irony, this Web harvestproduces over 12,000 cultural bindings between anoun (such as fish, or robot) and its most stereo-typical properties (such as cold, wet, stiff, logical,heartless, etc.).
Stereotypical properties are ac-quired for approx.
4,000 common English nouns.This is a set of building blocks on a larger scalethan even that of Taylor, allowing us to build onVeale and Hao (2007) to identify readymades intheir hundreds of thousands in the Google ngrams.However, to identify readymades as resonantvariations on cultural stereotypes, we need a cer-tain fluidity in our treatment of adjectival proper-ties.
The phrase ?wet haddock?
is a readymade forcoldness because ?wet?
accentuates the ?cold?
thatwe associate with ?haddock?
(via the web simile?as cold as a haddock?).
In the words of Hofstad-ter (1995), we need to build a SlipNet of propertieswhose structure captures the propensity of proper-ties to mutually and coherently reinforce eachother, so that phrases which subtly accentuate anunstated property can be recognized.
In the vein ofVeale and Hao (2007), we use the Google API toharvest the elements of this SlipNet.16We hypothesize that the construction ?as ADJ1and ADJ2as?
shows ADJ1and ADJ2to be mutu-ally reinforcing properties, since they can be seento work together as a single complex property in asingle comparison.
Thus, using the full comple-ment of adjectival properties used by Veale andHao (2007), we harvest all instances of the patterns?as ADJ and * as?
and ?as * and ADJ as?
fromGoogle, noting the combinations that are found andtheir frequencies.
These frequencies provide linkweights for the Hofstadter-style SlipNet that isthen constructed.
In all, over 180,000 links areharvested, connecting over 2,500 adjectival prop-erties to one other.
We put the intuitions behindthis SlipNet to the empirical test in section five.4 Harvesting Readymades from CorporaIn the course of an average day, a creative writer isexposed to a constant barrage of linguistic stimuli,any small portion of which can strike a chord as apotential readymade.
In this casual inspirationphase, the observant writer recognizes that a cer-tain combination of words may produce, in anothercontext, a meaning that is more than the sum of itsparts.
Later, when an apposite phrase is needed tostrike a particular note, this combination may beretrieved from memory (or from a trusty note-book), if it has been recorded and suitably indexed.Ironically, Orwell (1946) suggests that lazywriters ?shirk?
their responsibility to be ?scrupu-lous?
in their use of language by ?simply throwing[their] mind open and letting the ready-madephrases come crowding in?.
For Orwell, words justget in the way, and should be kept at arm?s lengthuntil the writer has first allowed a clear meaning tocrystallize.
This is dubious advice, as one expects acreative writer to keep an open mind when consid-ering all the possibilities that present themselves.Yet Orwell?s proscription suggests how a computershould go about the task of harvesting readymadesfrom corpora: by throwing its mind open to thepossibility that a given ngram may one day have asecond life as a creative readymade in anothercontext, the computer allows the phrases thatmatch some simple image-building criteria to comecrowding in, so they can be stored in a database.Given a rich vocabulary of cultural stereo-types and their properties, computers are capableof indexing and recalling a considerably largerbody of resonant combinations than the averagehuman.
The necessary barrage of linguistic stimulican be provided by the Google 1T database of Webngrams (Brants and Franz, 2006).
Trawling thesengrams, a modestly creative computer can recog-nize well-formed combinations of cultural ele-ments that might serve as a vivid vehicle ofdescription in a future comparison.
For everyphrase P in the ngrams, where P combines stereo-type nouns and/or adjectival modifiers, the com-puter simply poses the following question: is therean unstated property A such that the simile ?as Aas P?
is a meaningful and memorable comparison?The property A can be simple, as in ?as dark as achocolate espresso?, or complex, as in ?as darkand sophisticated as a chocolate martini?.
In eithercase, the phrase P is tucked away, and indexed un-der the property A until such time as the computerneeds to produce a vivid evocation of A.The following patterns are used to identifypotential readymades in the Web ngrams:(1) NounS1NounS2where both nouns denote stereotypes thatshare an unstated property AdjA.
The prop-erty AdjAserves to index this combination.Example: ?as cold as a robot fish?.
(2) NounS1NounS2where both nouns denote stereotypes withsalient properties AdjA1and AdjA2respec-tively, such that AdjA1and AdjA2are mutu-ally reinforcing.
The combination is indexedon AdjA1+AdjA2.
Example: ?as dark andsophisticated as a chocolate martini?.
(3)  AdjANounSwhere NounSdenotes a cultural stereotype,and the adjective AdjAdenotes a propertythat mutually reinforces an unstated but sali-ent property AdjSAof the stereotype.
Exam-ple: ?as cold as a wet haddock?.
Thecombination is indexed on AdjSA.More complex structures for P are also possible, asin the phrases ?a lake of tears?
(a melancholy wayto accentuate the property ?wet?)
and ?a statue in alibrary?
(for ?silent?
and ?quiet?).
In this currentdescription, we focus on 2-gram phrases only.17Figure 1.
Screenshot of The Jigsaw Bard, retrievinglinguistic readymades for the input property ?cold?.
Seehttp://www.educatedinsolence.com/jigsawUsing these patterns, our application ?
the JigsawBard (see Figure 1) ?
pre-builds a vast collectionof figurative similes well in advance of the time itis asked to use or suggest any of them.
Each phraseP is syntactically well-formed, and because P oc-curs relatively frequently on the Web, it is likely tobe semantically well-formed as well.
Just asDuchamp side-stepped the need to physicallyoriginate anything, but instead appropriated pre-fabricated artifacts, the Bard likewise side-stepsthe need for natural-language generation.
Eachphrase it proposes has the ring of linguisticauthenticity; because this authenticity is rooted inanother, more literal context, the Bard also exhibitsits own Duchamp-like (if Duchamp-lite) creativity.We now consider the scale of the Bard?s genera-tivity, and the quality of its insights.5 Empirical EvaluationThe vastness of the web, captured in the large-scale sample that is the Google ngrams, means theJigsaw Bard finds considerable grist for its mill inthe phrases that match (1)?(3).
Thus, the mostrestrictive pattern, pattern (1), harvests approx.20,000 phrases from the Google 2-grams, for al-most a thousand simple properties (indexing anaverage of 29 phrases under each property, such as?swan song?
for ?beautiful?).
Pattern (2) ?
whichallows a blend of stereotypes to be indexed under acomplex property ?
harvests approx.
170,000phrases from the 2-grams, for approx.
70,000 com-plex properties (indexing an average of 12 phrasesunder each, such as ?hospital bed?
for ?comfort-able and safe?).
Pattern (3) ?
which pairs a stereo-type noun with an adjective that draws out a salientproperty of the stereotype ?
is similarly productive:it harvests approx.
150,000 readymade 2-grams forover 2,000 simple properties (indexing an averageof 125 phrases per property, as in ?youthful knight?for ?heroic?
and ?zealous convert?
for ?devout?
).The Jigsaw Bard is best understood as a crea-tive thesaurus: for any given property (or blend ofproperties) selected by the user, the Bard presentsa range of apt similes constructed from linguisticreadymades.
The numbers above show that, recall-wise, the Bard has sufficient coverage to workrobustly as a thesaurus.
Quality-wise, users mustmake their own determinations as to which similesare most suited to their descriptive purposes, yet itis important that suggestions provided by the Bardare sensible and well-motivated.
As such, we mustbe empirically satisfied about two key intuitions:first, that salient properties are indeed acquiredfrom the Web for our vocabulary of stereotypes(this point relates to the aptness of the similes sug-gested by the Bard); and second, that the adjectivesconnected by the SlipNet really do mutually rein-force each other (this point relates to the coherenceof complex properties, and to the ability of ready-mades to accentuate unstated properties).Both intuitions can be tested using Whissell?s(1989) dictionary of affect, a psycholinguistic re-source used for sentiment analysis that assigns apleasantness score of between 1.0 (least pleasant)and 3.0 (most pleasant) to over 8,000 common-place words.
We should thus be able to predict thepleasantness of a stereotype noun (like fish) using aweighted average of the pleasantness of its salientproperties (like cold, slippery).
We should also beable to predict the pleasantness of an adjective us-ing a weighted average of the pleasantness of itsadjacent adjectives in the SlipNet.
(In each case,weights are provided by relevant web frequencies.
)We can use a two-tailed Pearson test (p <0.05) to compare the predictions made in each caseto the actual pleasantness scores provided byWhissell?s dictionary, and thereby assess the qual-ity of the knowledge used to make the predictions.In the first case, predictions of the pleasantness ofstereotype nouns based on the pleasantness of theirsalient properties (i.e., predicting the pleasantnessof Y from the Xs in ?as X as Y?)
have a positive18correlation of 0.5 with Whissell; conversely, ironicproperties yield a negative correlation of ?0.2.
Inthe second, predictions of the pleasantness of ad-jectives based on their relations in the SlipNet (i.e.,predicting the pleasantness of X from the Ys in ?asX and Y as?)
have a positive correlation of 0.7.Though pleasantness is just one dimension of lexi-cal affect, it is one that requires a broad knowledgeof a word, its usage and its denotations to accu-rately estimate.
In this respect, the Bard is wellserved by a large stock of stereotypes and a coher-ent network of informative properties.6 ConclusionsFishlov (1992) has argued that poetic similes rep-resent a conscious deviation from the norms ofnon-poetic comparison.
His analysis shows thatpoetic similes are longer and more elaborate, andare more likely to be figurative and to flirt withincongruity.
Creative similes do not necessarilyuse words that are longer, or rarer, or fancier, butuse many of the same cultural building blocks asnon-creative similes.
Armed with a rich vocabularyof building blocks, the Jigsaw Bard harvests agreat many readymade phrases from the Googlengrams ?
from the evocative ?chocolate martini?
tothe seemingly incongruous ?robot fish?
?
that canbe used to evoke an wide range of properties.This generativity makes the Bard scalable androbust.
However, any creativity we may attributeto it comes not from the phrases themselves ?
theyare readymades, after all ?
but from the recognitionof the subtle and often complex properties theyevoke.
The Bard exploits a sweet-spot in our un-derstanding of linguistic creativity, and so, as pre-sented here, is merely a starting point for ourcontinued exploitation of linguistic readymades,rather than an end in itself.
By harvesting morecomplex syntactic structures, and using more so-phisticated techniques for analyzing the figurativepotential of these phrases, the Bard and its ilk maygradually approach the levels of poeticity dis-cussed by Fishlov.
For now, it is sufficient thateven simple techniques serve as the basis of a ro-bust and practical thesaurus application.7 Hardware RequirementsThe Jigsaw Bard is designed to be a lightweightapplication that compiles its comprehensive data-base of readymades in advance.
It?s run-time de-mands are low, it has no special hardwarerequirements, and runs in a standard Web browser.AcknowledgmentsThis work was funded in part by Science Founda-tion Ireland (SFI), via the Centre for Next Genera-tion Localization (CNGL).ReferencesMargaret Boden, 1994.
Creativity: A Framework forResearch, Behavioural and Brain Sciences 17(3),558-568.Thorsten Brants.
and Alex Franz.
2006.
Web 1T 5-gramVersion 1.
Linguistic Data Consortium.Christiane Fellbaum.
(ed.)
2008.
WordNet: An Elec-tronic Lexical Database.
MIT Press, Cambridge.David Fishlov.
1992.
Poetic and Non-Poetic Simile:Structure, Semantics, Rhetoric.
Poetics Today, 14(1).Douglas R Hofstadter.
1995.
Fluid Concepts and Crea-tive Analogies: Computer Models of the Fundamen-tal Mechanisms of Thought.
Basic Books, NY.Rosamund Moon.
2008.
Conventionalized as-similes inEnglish: A problem case.
International Journal ofCorpus Linguistics 13(1), 3-37.Neal Norrick,.
1986.
Stock Similes.
Journal of LiterarySemantics XV(1), 39-52.George Orwell.
1946.
Politics And The English Lan-guage.
Horizon 13(76), 252-265.Robert J Sternberg.
and T. Ivan Lubart, 1995.
Defyingthe crowd: Cultivating creativity in a culture of con-formity.
Free Press, New York.Archer Taylor.
1954.
Proverbial Comparisons andSimiles from California.
Folklore Studies 3.
Ber-keley: University of California Press.Michael R. Taylor.
(2009).
Marcel Duchamp: ?tantdonn?s (Philadelphia Museum of Art).
Yale Univer-sity Press.Tony Veale and Yanfen Hao.
2007.
Making LexicalOntologies Functional and Context-Sensitive.
InProceedings of the 46thAnnual Meeting of the Asso-ciation of Computational Linguistics.Cynthia Whissell.
1989.
The dictionary of affect in lan-guage.
In R. Plutchnik & H. Kellerman (eds.)
Emo-tion: Theory and research.
New York: HarcourtBrace, 113-131.19
