Proceedings of the ACL-HLT 2011 System Demonstrations, pages 44?49,Portland, Oregon, USA, 21 June 2011. c?2011 Association for Computational LinguisticsEngkoo: Mining the Web for Language LearningMatthew R. Scott, Xiaohua Liu, Ming Zhou, Microsoft Engkoo TeamMicrosoft Research AsiaNo.
5, Dan Ling Street, Haidian District, Beijing, 100080, China{mrscott, xiaoliu, mingzhou, engkoo}@microsoft.comAbstractThis paper presents Engkoo 1, a system forexploring and learning language.
It is builtprimarily by mining translation knowledgefrom billions of web pages - using the Inter-net to catch language in motion.
CurrentlyEngkoo is built for Chinese users who arelearning English; however the technology it-self is language independent and can be ex-tended in the future.
At a system level, En-gkoo is an application platform that supports amultitude of NLP technologies such as crosslanguage retrieval, alignment, sentence clas-sification, and statistical machine translation.The data set that supports this system is pri-marily built from mining a massive set ofbilingual terms and sentences from across theweb.
Specifically, web pages that containboth Chinese and English are discovered andanalyzed for parallelism, extracted and for-mulated into clear term definitions and sam-ple sentences.
This approach allows us tobuild perhaps the world?s largest lexicon link-ing both Chinese and English together - at thesame time covering the most up-to-date termsas captured by the net.1 IntroductionLearning and using a foreign language is a signif-icant challenge for most people.
Existing tools,though helpful, have several limitations.
Firstly,they often depend on static contents compiled byexperts, and therefore cannot cover fresh words ornew usages of existing words.
Secondly, their search1http://www.engkoo.com.functions are often limited, making it hard for usersto effectively find information they are interested in.Lastly, existing tools tend to focus exclusively ondictionary, machine translation or language learning,losing out on synergy that can reduce inefficienciesin the user experience.This paper presents Engkoo, a system for explor-ing and learning language.
Different from exist-ing tools, it discovers fresh and authentic transla-tion knowledge from billions of web pages - usingthe Internet to catch language in motion, and offer-ing novel search functions that allow users efficientaccess to massive knowledge resources.
Addition-ally, the system unifies the scenarios of dictionary,machine translation, and language learning into aseamless and more productive user experience.
En-gkoo derives its data from a process that continu-ously culls bilingual term/sentence pairs from theweb, filters noise and conducts a series of NLP pro-cesses including POS tagging, dependency parsingand classification.
Meanwhile, statistical knowledgesuch as collocations is extracted.
Next, the minedbilingual pairs, together with the extracted linguisticknowledge, are indexed.
Finally, it exposes a set ofweb services through which users can: 1) look upthe definition of a word/phrase; 2) retrieve examplesentences using keywords, POS tags or collocations;and 3) get the translation of a word/phrase/sentence.While Engkoo is currently built for Chinese userswho are learning English, the technology itself islanguage independent and can be extended to sup-port other language pairs in the future.We have deployed Engkoo online to Chinese in-ternet users and gathered log data that suggests its44utility.
From the logs we can see on average 62.0%of daily users are return users and 71.0% are activeusers (make at least 1 query); active users make 8queries per day on average.
The service receivesmore than one million page views per day.This paper is organized as follows.
In the nextsection, we briefly introduce related work.
In Sec-tion 3, we describe our system.
Finally, Section 4concludes and presents future work.2 Related WorkOnline Dictionary Lookup Services.
Online dic-tionary lookup services can be divided into two cat-egories.
The first mainly relies on the dictionar-ies edited by experts, e.g., Oxford dictionaries 2and Longman contemporary English dictionary 3.Examples of these kinds of services include iCiba4 and Lingoes 5.
The second depends mainly onmined bilingual term/sentence pairs, e.g., Youdao 6.In contrast to those services, our system has a higherrecall and fresher results, unique search functions(e.g., fuzzy POS-based search, classifier filtering),and an integrated language learning experience (e.g.,translation with interactive word alignment, andphotorealistic lip-synced video tutors).Bilingual CorpusMining and Postprocessing.
Shiet al (2006) uses document object model (DOM)tree mapping to extract bilingual sentence pairsfrom aligned bilingual web pages.
Jiang et al(2009b) exploits collective patterns to extract bilin-gual term/sentence pairs from one web page.
Liu etal.
(2010) proposes training a SVM-based classi-fier with multiple linguistic features to evaluate thequality of mined corpora.
Some methods are pro-posed to detect/correct errors in English (Liu et al,2010; Sun et al, 2007).
Following this line of work,Engkoo implements its mining pipeline with a focuson robustness and speed, and is designed to work ona very large volume of web pages.3 System DescriptionIn this section, we first present the architecture fol-lowed by a discussion of the basic components; we2http://oxforddictionaries.com3http://www.ldoceonline.com/4http://dict.en.iciba.com/5http://www.lingoes.cn/6http://dict.youdao.comFigure 1: System architecture of Engkoo.then demonstrate the main scenarios.3.1 System OverviewFigure 1 presents the architecture of Engkoo.
Itcan be seen that the components of Engkoo are or-ganized into four layers.
The first layer consistsof the crawler and the raw web page storage.
Thecrawler periodically downloads two kinds of webpages, which are put into the storage.
The first kindof web pages are parallel web pages (describe thesame contents but with different languages, oftenfrom bilingual sites, e.g., government sites), and thesecond are those containing bilingual contents.
Alist of seed URLs are maintained and updated aftereach round of the mining process.The second layer consists of the extractor, thefilter, the classifiers and the readability evaluator,which are applied sequentially.
The extractor scansthe raw web page storage and identifies bilingual45web page pairs using URL patterns.
For example,two web pages are parallel if their URLs are inthe form of ??
?
?
/zh/?
?
?
?
and ??
?
?
/en/?
?
?
?, respec-tively.
Following the method of Shi et al (2006)the extractor then extracts bilingual term/sentencepairs from parallel web pages.
Meanwhile, itidentifies web pages with bilingual contents, andmines bilingual term/sentence pairs from them us-ing the method proposed by Jiang et al (2009b).The filter removes repeated pairs, and uses themethod introduced by Liu et al (2010) to sin-gle out low quality pairs, which are further pro-cessed by a noisy-channel based sub-model that at-tempts to correct common spelling and grammar er-rors.
If the quality is still unacceptable after cor-rection, they will be dropped.
The classifiers, i.e.,oral/non-oral, technical/non-technical, title/non-titleclassifiers, are applied to each term/sentence pair.The readability evaluator assigns a score to eachterm/sentence pair according to Formula 1 7.206.835?1.015?
#words#sentences?84.6?#syllables#words(1)Two points are worth noting here.
Firstly, a listof top sites from which a good number of highquality pairs are obtained, is figured out; these areused as seeds by the crawler.
Secondly, bilingualterm/sentence pairs extracted from traditional dic-tionaries are fed into this layer as well, but with thequality checking process ignored.The third layer consists of a series of NLP com-ponents, which conduct POS tagging, dependencyparsing, and word alignment, respectively.
It alsoincludes components that learn translation informa-tion and collocations from the parsed term/sentencepairs.
Based on the learned statistical informa-tion, two phrase-based statistical machine transla-tion (SMT) systems are trained, which can thentranslate sentences from one language to the otherand vice versa.
Finally, the mined bilingualterm/sentence pairs, together with their parsed in-formation, are stored and indexed with a multi-levelindexing engine, a core component of this layer.
Theindexer is called multi-level since it uses not onlykeywords but also POS tags and dependency triples(e.g., ?TobjvwatchvTV?, which means ?TV?
is the7http://www.editcentral.com/gwt1/EditCentral.htmlobject of ?watch?)
as lookup entries.The fourth layer consists of a set of services thatexpose the mined term/sentence pairs and the lin-guistic knowledge based on the built index.
On topof these services, we construct a web application,supporting a wide range of functions, such as search-ing bilingual terms/sentences, translation and so on.3.2 Main ComponentsNow we present the basic components of Engkoo,namely: 1) the crawler, 2) the extractor, 3) the filter,4) the classifiers, 5) the SMT systems, and 6) the in-dexer.Crawler.
The crawler scans the Internet to get par-allel and bilingual web pages.
It employs a set ofheuristic rules related to URLs and contents to filterunwanted pages.
It uses a list of potential URLs toguide its crawling.
That is, it uses these URLs asseeds, and then conducts a deep-first crawling witha maximum allowable depth of 5.
While crawling,it maintains a cache of the URLs of the pages it hasrecently downloaded.
It processes a URL if and onlyif it is not in the cache.
In this way, the crawler triesto avoid repeatedly downloading the same web page.By now, about 2 billion pages have been scanned andabout 0.1 parallel/bilingual pages have been down-loaded.Extractor.
A bilingual term/sentence extractor isimplemented following Shi et al (2006) and Jianget al (2009b).
It works in two modes, mining fromparallel web pages and from bilingual web pages.Parallel web pages are identified recursively in thefollowing way.
Given a pair of parallel web pages,the URLs in two pages are extracted respectively,and are further aligned according to their positionsin DOM trees, so that more parallel pages can be ob-tained.
The method proposed by Jiang et al (2007)is implemented as well to mine the definition of agiven term using search engines.
By now, we haveobtained about 1,050 million bilingual term pairsand 100 million bilingual sentence pairs.Filter.
The filter takes three steps to drop low qual-ity pairs.
Firstly, it checks each pair if it containsany malicious word, say, a noisy symbol.
Secondly,it adopts the method of Liu et al (2010) to estimatethe quality of mined pairs.
Finally, following thework related to English as a second language (ESL)errors detection/correction (Liu et al, 2010; Sun et46al., 2007), it implements a text normalization com-ponent based on the noisy-channel model to correctcommon spelling and grammar errors.
That is, givena sentence s?
possibly with noise, find the sentences?
= argmaxs p(s)p(s?
|s), where p(s) and p(s?
|s)are called the language model and the translationmodel, respectively.
In Engkoo, the language modelis a 5-gram language model trained on news articlesusing SRILM (Stolcke, 2002), while the translationmodel is based on a manually compiled translationtable.
We have got about 20 million bilingual termpairs and 15 million bilingual sentence pairs afterfiltering noise.Classifiers.
All classifiers adopt SVM as mod-els, and bag of words, bi-grams as well as sen-tence length as features.
For each classifier, about10,000 sentence pairs are manually annotated fortraining/development/testing.
Experimental resultsshow that on average these classifiers can achieve anaccuracy of more than 90.0%.SMT Systems.
Our SMT systems are phrase-based,trained on the web mined bilingual sentence pairsusing the GIZA++ (Och and Ney, 2000) alignmentpackage, with a collaborative decoder similar to Liet al (2009).
The Chinese-to-English/English-to-Chinese SMT system achieves a case-insensitiveBLUE score of 29.6% / 47.1% on the NIST 2008evaluation data set.Indexer.
At the heart of the indexer is the invertedlists, each of which contains an entry pointing toan ordered list of the related term/sentence pairs.Compared with its alternatives, the indexer has twounique features: 1) it contains various kinds of en-tries, including common keywords, POS taggers,dependency triples, collocations, readability scoresand class labels; and 2) the term/sentence pairs re-lated to the entry are ranked according to their qual-ities computed by the filter.3.3 Using the SystemDefinition Lookup.
Looking up a word or phrase onEngkoo is a core scenario.
The traditional dictionaryinterface is extended with a blending of web-minedand ranked term definitions, sample sentences, syn-onyms, collocations, and phonetically similar terms.The result page user experience includes an intu-itive comparable tabs interface described in Jiang etal.
(2009a) that effectively exposes differences be-tween similar terms.
The search experience is aug-mented with a fuzzy auto completion experience,which besides traditional prefix matching is also ro-bust against errors and allows for alternative inputs.All of these contain inline micro translations to helpusers narrow in on their intended search.
Errors areresolved by a blend of edit-distance and phoneticsearch algorithms tuned for Chinese user behaviorpatterns identified by user study.
Alternative inputaccepted includes Pinyin (Romanization of Chinesecharacters) which returns transliteration, as well asmultiple wild card operators.Take for example the query ?tweet,?
illustrated inFigure 2(a).
The definitions for the term derivedfrom traditional dictionary sources are included inthe main definition area and refer to the noise of asmall bird.
Augmenting the definition area are ?Webtranslations,?
which include the contemporary use ofthe word standing for micro-blogging.
Web-minedbilingual sample sentences are also presented andranked by popularity metrics; this demonstrates themodern usage of the term.Search of Example Sentences.
Engkoo exposes anovel search and interactive exploration interface forthe ever-growing web-mined bilingual sample sen-tences in its database.
Emphasis is placed on samplesentences in Engkoo because of their crucial role inlanguage learning.
Engkoo offers new methods forthe self-exploration of language based on the appliedlinguistic theories of ?learning as discovery?
andData-Driven Learning (DDL) introduced by Johns(1991).
One can search for sentences as they wouldin traditional search engines or concordancers.
Ex-tensions include allowing for mixed input of Englishand Chinese, and POS wild cards enabled by multi-level indexing.
Further, sentences can be filteredbased on classifiers such as oral, written, and techni-cal styles, source, and language difficulty.
Addition-ally sample sentences for terms can be filtered bytheir inflection and the semantics of a particular def-inition.
Interactivity can be found in the word align-ment between the languages as one moves his or hermouse over the words, which can also be clickedon for deeper exploration.
And in addition to tra-ditional text-to-speech, a visual representation of ahuman language tutor pronouncing each sentence isalso included.
Sample sentences between two simi-lar words can be displayed side-by-side in a tabbed47(a) A screenshot of the definition and sample sentence areas of a Engkooresult page.
(b) A screenshot of samples sentences for the POS-wildcard query ?v.
tv?
(meaning ?verb TV?).
(c) A screenshot of machine translation integrated into the dictionary expe-rience, where the top pane shows results of machine translation while thebottom pane displays example sentences mined from the web.Figure 2: Three scenarios of Engkoo.48user interface to easily expose the subtleties betweenusages.In the example seen in Figure 2(b), a user hassearched for the collocation verb+TV, representedby the query ?v.
TV?
to find commonly used verbsdescribing actions for the noun ?TV.?
In the results,we find fresh and authentic sample sentences minedfrom the web, the first of which contains ?watchTV,?
the most common collocation, as the top result.Additionally, the corresponding keyword in Chineseis automatically highlighted using statistical align-ment techniques.Machine Translation.
For many users, the differ-ence between a machine translation (MT) systemand a translation dictionary are not entirely clear.
InEngkoo, if a term or phrase is out-of-vocabulary, aMT result is dynamically returned.
For shorter MTqueries, sample sentences might also be returned asone can see in Figure 2(c) which expands the searchand also raises confidence in a translation as one canobserve it used on the web.
Like the sample sen-tences, word alignment is also exposed on the ma-chine translation.
As the alignment naturally servesas a word breaker, users can click the selection fora lookup which would open a new tab with the def-inition.
This is especially useful in cases where auser might want to find alternatives to a particularpart of a translation.
Note that the seemingly singleline dictionary search box is also adapted to MT be-havior, allowing users to paste in multi-line text asit can detect and unfold itself to a larger text area asneeded.4 Conclusions and Future workWe have presented Engkoo, a novel online transla-tion system which uniquely unifies the scenarios ofdictionary, machine translation, and language learn-ing.
The features of the offering are based on anever-expanding data set derived from state-of-the-artweb mining and NLP techniques.
The contributionof the work is a complete software system that max-imizes the web?s pedagogical potential by exploitingits massive language resources.
Direct user feed-back and implicit log data suggest that the serviceis effective for both translation utility and languagelearning, with advantages over existing services.
Infuture work, we are examining extracting languageknowledge from the real-time web for translation innews scenarios.
Additionally, we are actively min-ing other language pairs to build a multi-languagelearning system.AcknowledgmentsWe thank Cheng Niu, Dongdong Zhang, FrankSoong, Gang Chen, Henry Li, Hao Wei, Kan Wang,Long Jiang, Lijuan Wang, Mu Li, Tantan Feng, Wei-jiang Xu and Yuki Arase for their valuable contribu-tions to this paper, and the anonymous reviewers fortheir valuable comments.ReferencesLong Jiang, Ming Zhou, Lee-Feng Chien, and ChengNiu.
2007.
Named entity translation with web min-ing and transliteration.
In IJCAI, pages 1629?1634.Gonglue Jiang, Chen Zhao, Matthew R. Scott, and FangZou.
2009a.
Combinable tabs: An interactive methodof information comparison using a combinable tabbeddocument interface.
In INTERACT, pages 432?435.Long Jiang, Shiquan Yang, Ming Zhou, Xiaohua Liu,and Qingsheng Zhu.
2009b.
Mining bilingual datafrom the web with adaptively learnt patterns.
InACL/AFNLP, pages 870?878.Tim Johns.
1991.
From printout to handout: grammarand vocabulary teaching in the context of data drivenlearning.
Special issue of ELR Journal, pages 27?45.Mu Li, Nan Duan, Dongdong Zhang, Chi-Ho Li, andMing Zhou.
2009.
Collaborative decoding: Partialhypothesis re-ranking using translation consensus be-tween decoders.
In ACL/AFNLP, pages 585?592.Xiaohua Liu and Ming Zhou.
2010.
Evaluating the qual-ity of web-mined bilingual sentences using multiplelinguistic features.
In IALP, pages 281?284.Xiaohua Liu, Bo Han, Kuan Li, Stephan HyeonjunStiller, and Ming Zhou.
2010.
Srl-based verb selec-tion for esl.
In EMNLP, pages 1068?1076.Franz Josef Och and Hermann Ney.
2000.
Improvedstatistical alignment models.
In ACL.Lei Shi, Cheng Niu, Ming Zhou, and Jianfeng Gao.
2006.A dom tree alignment model for mining parallel datafrom the web.
In ACL, pages 489?496.Andreas Stolcke.
2002.
SRILM ?
an extensible languagemodeling toolkit.
In ICSLP, volume 2, pages 901?904.Guihua Sun, Xiaohua Liu, Gao Cong, Ming Zhou,Zhongyang Xiong, John Lee, and Chin-Yew Lin.2007.
Detecting erroneous sentences using automat-ically mined sequential patterns.
In ACL.49
