Proceedings of the ACL-HLT 2011 Student Session, pages 12?17,Portland, OR, USA 19-24 June 2011. c?2011 Association for Computational LinguisticsPre- and Postprocessing for Statistical Machine Translation into GermanicLanguagesSara StymneDepartment of Computer and Information ScienceLinko?ping University, Linko?ping, Swedensara.stymne@liu.seAbstractIn this thesis proposal I present my thesiswork, about pre- and postprocessing for sta-tistical machine translation, mainly into Ger-manic languages.
I focus my work on four ar-eas: compounding, definite noun phrases, re-ordering, and error correction.
Initial resultsare positive within all four areas, and there arepromising possibilities for extending these ap-proaches.
In addition I also focus on methodsfor performing thorough error analysis of ma-chine translation output, which can both moti-vate and evaluate the studies performed.1 IntroductionStatistical machine translation (SMT) is based ontraining statistical models from large corpora of hu-man translations.
It has the advantage that it is veryfast to train, if there are available corpora, comparedto rule-based systems, and SMT systems are oftenrelatively good at lexical disambiguation.
A largedrawback of SMT systems is that they use no or lit-tle grammatical knowledge, relying mainly on a tar-get language model for producing correct target lan-guage texts, often resulting in ungrammatical out-put.
Thus, methods to include some, possibly shal-low, linguistic knowledge seem reasonable.The main focus for SMT to date has been ontranslation into English, for which the models workrelatively well, especially for source languages thatare structurally similar to English.
There has beenless research on translation out of English, or be-tween other language pairs.
Methods that are usefulfor translation into English have problems in manycases, for instance for translation into morpholog-ically rich languages.
Word order differences andmorphological complexity of a language have beenshown to be explanatory variables for the perfor-mance of phrase-based SMT systems (Birch et al,2008).
German and the Scandinavian languages area good sample of languages, I believe, since they areboth more morphologically complex than English toa varying degree, and the word order differ to someextent, with mostly local differences between En-glish and Scandinavian, and also long distance dif-ferences with German, especially for verbs.Some problems with SMT into German andSwedish are exemplified in Table 1.
In the Ger-man example, the translation of the verb welcomeis missing in the SMT output.
Missing and mis-placed verbs are common error types, since theGerman verb should appear last in the sentencein this context, as in the reference, begru?
?en.There is also an idiomatic compound, redebeitrag(speech+contribution; intervention) in the refer-ence, which is produced as the single word beitrag inthe SMT output.
In the Swedish example, there areproblems with a definite NP, which has the wronggender of the definite article, den instead of det, andis missing a definite suffix on the noun synsa?tt(et)((the) approach).In this proposal I outline my thesis work whichaims to improve statistical machine translation, par-ticularly into Germanic languages, by using pre- andpostprocessing on one or both language sides, withan additional focus on error analysis.
In section 2 Ipresent a thesis overview, and in section 3 I brieflyoverview MT evaluation techniques, and discuss mywork on MT error analysis.
In section 4 I describemy work on pre- and postprocessing, which is fo-cused on compounding, definite noun phrases, wordorder, and error correction.12En source I too would like to welcome Mr Prodi?s forceful and meaningful intervention.De SMT Ich mo?chte auch herrn Prodis energisch und sinnvollen Beitrag.De reference Ich mo?chte meinerseits auch den klaren und substanziellen Redebeitrag von Pra?sident Prodibegru?
?en.En source So much for the scientific approach.Se SMT Sa?
mycket fo?r den vetenskapliga synsa?tt.Se reference Sa?
mycket fo?r den vetenskapliga infallsvinkeln.Table 1: Examples of problematic PBSMT output2 Thesis OverviewMy main research focus is how pre- and postpro-cessing can be used to improve statistical MT, witha focus on translation into Germanic languages.
Theidea behind preprocessing is to change the trainingcorpus on the source side and/or on the target sidein order to make them more similar, which makesthe SMT task easier, since the standard SMT mod-els work better for more similar languages.
Post-processing is needed after the translation when thetarget language has been preprocessed, in order torestore it to the normal target language.
Postpro-cessing can also be used on standard MT output, inorder to correct some of the errors from the MT sys-tem.
I focus my work about pre- and postprocessingon four areas: compounding, definite noun phrases,word order, and error correction.
In addition I ammaking an effort into error analysis, to identify andclassify errors in the MT output, both in order to fo-cus my research effort, and to evaluate and comparesystems.My work is based on the phrase-based approachto statistical machine translation (PBSMT, Koehn etal.
(2003)).
I further use the framework of factoredmachine translation, where each word is representedas a vector of factors, such as surface word, lemmaand part-of-speech, rather than only as surface words(Koehn and Hoang, 2007).
I mostly utilize factors totranslate into both words and (morphological) part-of-speech, and can then use an additional sequencemodel based on part-of-speech, which potentiallycan improve word order and agreement.
I take ad-vantage of available tools, such as the Moses toolkit(Koehn et al, 2007) for factored phrase-based trans-lation.I have chosen to focus on PBSMT, which is a verysuccessful MT approach, and have received muchresearch focus.
Other SMT approaches, such as hi-erarchical and syntactical SMT (e.g.
Chiang (2007),Zhang et al (2007a)) can potentially overcome somelanguage differences that are problematic for PB-SMT, such as long-distance word order differences.Many of these models have had good results, butthey have the drawback of being more complex thanPBSMT, and some methods do not scale well tolarge corpora.
While these models at least in princi-ple address some of the drawbacks of the flat struc-ture in PBSMT, Wang et al (2010) showed that asyntactic SMT system can still gain from prepro-cessing such as parse-tree modification.3 Evaluation and Error AnalysisMachine translation systems are often only evalu-ated quantitatively by using automatic metrics, suchas Bleu (Papineni et al, 2002), which compares thesystem output to one or more human reference trans-lations.
While this type of evaluation has its advan-tages, mainly that it is fast and cheap, its correla-tion with human judgments is often low, especiallyfor translation out of English (Callison-Burch et al,2009).
In order to overcome these problems to someextent I use several metrics in my studies, instead ofonly Bleu.
Despite this, metrics only give a singlescore per sentence batch and system, which even us-ing several metrics gives us little information on theparticular problems with a system, or about what thepossible improvements are.One alternative to automatic metrics is humanjudgments, either absolute scores, for instance foradequacy or fluency, or by ranking sentences or seg-ments.
Such evaluations are a valuable complementto automatic metrics, but they are costly and time-consuming, and while they are useful for comparingsystems they also fail to pinpoint specific problems.I mainly take advantage of this type of evaluation aspart of participating with my research group in MT13shared tasks with large evaluation campaigns suchas WMT (e.g.
Callison-Burch et al (2009)).To overcome the limitation of quantitative evalu-ations, I focus on error analysis (EA) of MT outputin my thesis.
EA is the task of annotating and clas-sifying the errors in MT output, which gives a qual-itative view.
It can be used to evaluate and comparesystems, but is also useful in order to focus the re-search effort on common problems for the languagepair in question.
There have been previous attemptsof describing typologies for EA for MT, but they arenot unproblematic.
Vilar et al (2006) suggested a ty-pology with five main categories: missing, incorrect,unknown, word order, and punctuation, which havealso been used by other researchers, mainly for eval-uation.
However, this typology is relatively shallowand mixes classification of errors with causes of er-rors.
Farru?s et al (2010) suggested a typology basedon linguistic categories, such as orthography and se-mantics, but their descriptions of these categoriesand their subcategories are not detailed.
Thus, aspart of my research, I am in the progress of design-ing a fine-grained typology and guidelines for EA.I have also created a tool for performing MT erroranalysis (Stymne, 2011a).
Initial annotations havehelped to focus my research efforts, and will be dis-cussed below.
I also plan to use EA as one means ofevaluating my work on pre- and postprocessing.4 Main Research ProblemsIn this section I describe the four main problem ar-eas I will focus on in my thesis project.
I summarizebriefly previous work in each area, and outline myown current and planned contributions.
Sample re-sults from the different studies are shown in Table2.4.1 CompoundingIn most Germanic languages, compounds are writ-ten without spaces or other word boundaries, whichmakes them problematic for SMT, mainly due tosparse data problems.
The standard method for treat-ing compounds for translation from Germanic lan-guages is to split them in both the training dataand translation input (e.g.
(Nie?en and Ney, 2000;Koehn and Knight, 2003; Popovic?
et al, 2006)).Koehn and Knight (2003) also suggested a corpus-based compound splitting method that has beenmuch used for SMT, where compounds are splitbased on corpus frequencies of its parts.If compounds are split for translation into Ger-manic languages, the SMT system produces outputwith split compounds, which need to be postpro-cessed into full compounds.
There has been verylittle research into this problem.
For this process tobe successful, it is important that the SMT systemproduces the split compound parts in a correct wordorder.
To encourage this I have used a factored trans-lation system that outputs parts-of-speech and uses asequence model on parts-of-speech.
I extended thepart-of-speech tagset to use special part-of-speechtags for split compound parts, which depend on thehead part-of-speech of the compound.
For instance,the Swedish noun pa?rontra?d (pear tree) would betagged as pa?ron|N-part tra?d|N when split.
Usingthis model the number of compound parts that wereproduced in the wrong order was reduced drasticallycompared to not using a part-of-speech sequencemodel for translation into German (Stymne, 2009a).I also designed an algorithm for the mergingtask that uses these part-of-speech tags to mergecompounds only when the next part-of-speech tagmatches.
This merging method outperforms reim-plementations and variations of previous mergingsuggestions (Popovic?
et al, 2006), and methodsadapted from morphology merging (Virpioja et al,2007) for translation into German (Stymne, 2009a).It also has the advantage over previous mergingmethods that it can produce novel compounds, whileat the same time reducing the risk of merging partsinto non-words.
I have also shown that these com-pound processing methods work equally well fortranslation into Swedish (Stymne and Holmqvist,2008).
Currently I am working on methods for fur-ther improving compound merging, with promisinginitial results.4.2 Definite Noun PhrasesIn Scandinavian languages there are two ways toexpress definiteness in noun phrases, either by adefinite article, or by a suffix on the noun.
Thisleads to problems when translating into these lan-guages, such as superfluous definite articles andwrong forms of nouns.
I am not aware of anypublished research in this area, but an unpublished14Language pair Corpus Corpus size Testset size In article System Bleu NISTEn-De Europarl 439,513 2,000 Stymne (2008)BL 19.31 5.727+Comp 19.73 5.854En-Se Europarl 701,157 2,000Stymne andHolmqvist (2008)BL 21.63 6.109+Comp 22.12 6.143En-Da Automotive 168,046 1,000 Stymne (2009b)BL 70.91 8.816+Def 76.35 9.363En-Se Europarl 701,157 1,000 Stymne (2011b)BL 21.63 6.109+Def 22.03 6.178En-De Europarl 439,513 2,000 Stymne (2011c)BL 19.32 5.901+Reo 19.59 5.936En-Se Europarl 701,157 335Stymne andAhrenberg (2010)BL 19.44 5.381+EC 22.12 5.447Table 2: A selection of results for the four pre- and postprocessing strategies.
Corpus sizes are given as number ofsentences.
BL is baseline systems, +Comp with compound processing, +Def with definite processing, +Reo withiterative reordering and alignment and monotone decoding, +EC with grammar checker error correction.
The test setfor error correction only contains sentences that are affected by the error correction.report shows no gain for a simple pre-processingstrategy for translation from German to Swedish(Samuelsson, 2006).
There is similar work on otherphenomena, such as Nie?en and Ney (2000), whomove German separated verb prefixes, to imitate theEnglish phrasal verb structure.I address definiteness by preprocessing the sourcelanguage, to make definite NPs structurally simi-lar to target language NPs.
The transformationsare rule-based, using part-of-speech tags.
DefiniteNPs in Scandinavian languages are mimicked in thesource language by removing superfluous definitearticles, and/or adding definite suffixes to nouns.
Inan initial study, this gave very good results, with rel-ative Bleu improvements of up to 22.1% for trans-lation into Danish (Stymne, 2009b).
In Swedishand Norwegian, the distribution of definite suffixesis more complex than in Danish, and the basic strat-egy that worked well for Danish was not successful(Stymne, 2011b).
A small modification to the ba-sic strategy, so that superfluous English articles wereremoved, but no suffixes were added, was success-ful for translation from English into Swedish andNorwegian.
A planned extension is to integrate thetransformations into a lattice that is fed to the de-coder, in the spirit of (Dyer et al, 2008).4.3 Word OrderThere has been a lot of research on how to handleword order differences between languages.
Prepro-cessing approaches can use either hand-written rulestargeting known language differences (e.g.
Collinset al (2005), Li et al (2009)), or automatically learntrules (e.g.
Xia and McCord (2004), Zhang et al(2007b)), which are basically language independent.I have performed an initial study on a languageindependent word order strategy where reorderingrule learning and word alignment are performed iter-atively, since they both depend on the other process(Stymne, 2011c).
There were no overall improve-ments as measured by Bleu, but an investigation ofthe reordering rules showed that the rules learnedin the different iterations are different with regardto the linguistic phenomena they handle, indicatingthat it is possible to learn new information from iter-ating rule learning and word alignment.
In this studyI only choose the 1-best reordering as input to theSMT system.
I plan to extend this by presenting sev-eral reorderings to the decoder as a lattice, which hasbeen successful in previous work (see e.g.
Zhang etal.
(2007b)).My preliminary error analysis has shown thatthere are two main word order difficulties for trans-lation between English and Swedish, adverb place-ment, and V2 errors, where the verb is not placedin the correct position when it should be placedbefore the subject.
I plan to design a preprocess-ing scheme to tackle these particular problems forEnglish-Swedish translation.154.4 Error CorrectionPostprocessing can be used to correct MT outputthat has not been preprocessed, for instance in or-der to improve the grammaticality.
There has notbeen much research in this area.
A few examplesare Elming (2006), who use transformation-basedlearning for word substitution based on aligned hu-man post-edited sentences, and Guzma?n (2007) whoused regular expression to correct regular Spanisherrors.
I have applied error correction suggestionsgiven by a grammar checker to theMT output, show-ing that it can improve certain types of errors, suchas NP agreement and word order, with a high pre-cision, but unfortunately with a low recall (Stymneand Ahrenberg, 2010).
Since the recall is low, thepositive effect on metrics such as Bleu is small ongeneral test sets, but there are improvements on testsets which only contains sentences that are affectedby the postprocessing.
An error analysis showed that68?74% of the corrections made were useful, andonly around 10% of the changes made were harm-ful.
I believe that this approach could be even moreuseful for similar languages, such as Danish andSwedish, where a spell-checker might also be use-ful.The initial error analysis I have performed hashelped to identify common errors in SMT output,and shown that many of them are quite regular.
Astrategy I intend to pursue is to further identify com-mon and regular problems, and to either constructrules or to train a machine learning classifier to iden-tify them, in order to be able to postprocess them.
Itmight also be possible to use the annotations fromthe error analysis as part of the training data for sucha classifier.5 DiscussionThe main focus of my thesis will be on designingand evaluating methods for pre- and postprocess-ing of statistical MT, where I will contribute meth-ods that can improve translation within the four ar-eas discussed in section 4.
The effort is focusedon translation into Germanic languages, includingGerman, on which there has been much previousresearch, and Swedish and other Scandinavian lan-guages, where there has been little previous re-search.
I believe that both language-pair dependentand independent methods for pre- and postprocess-ing can be useful.
It is also the case that somelanguage-pair dependent methods carry over to other(similar) language pairs with no or little modifica-tion.
So far I have mostly used rule-based process-ing, but I plan to extend this with investigating ma-chine learning methods, and compare the two mainapproaches.I strongly believe that it is important for MT re-searchers to perform qualitative evaluations, both foridentifying problems with MT systems, and for eval-uating and comparing systems.
In my experience itis often the case that a change to the system to im-prove one aspect, such as compounding, also leadsto many other changes, in the case of compoundingfor instance because of the possibility of improvedalignments, which I think we lack a proper under-standing of.My planned thesis contributions are to design adetailed error typology, guidelines, and a tool, tar-geted at MT researchers, for performing error anno-tation, and to improve statistical machine translationin four problem areas, using several methods of pre-and postprocessing.ReferencesAlexandra Birch, Miles Osborne, and Philipp Koehn.2008.
Predicting success in machine translation.
InProceedings of EMNLP, pages 745?754, Honolulu,Hawaii, USA.Chris Callison-Burch, Philipp Koehn, Christof Monz,and Josh Schroeder.
2009.
Findings of the 2009Workshop on Statistical Machine Translation.
In Pro-ceedings of WMT, pages 1?28, Athens, Greece.David Chiang.
2007.
Hierarchical phrase-based transla-tion.
Computational Linguistics, 33(2):202?228.Michael Collins, Philipp Koehn, and Ivona Kuc?erova?.2005.
Clause restructuring for statistical machinetranslation.
In Proceedings of ACL, pages 531?540,Ann Arbor, Michigan, USA.Christopher Dyer, SmarandaMuresan, and Philip Resnik.2008.
Generalizing word lattice translation.
In Pro-ceedings of ACL, pages 1012?1020, Columbus, Ohio,USA.Jakob Elming.
2006.
Transformation-based correctionof rule-based MT.
In Proceedings of EAMT, pages219?226, Oslo, Norway.Mireia Farru?s, Marta R. Costa-jussa`, Jose?
B. Marin?o, andJose?
A. R. Fonollosa.
2010.
Linguistic-based evalu-ation criteria to identify statistical machine translation16errors.
In Proceedings of EAMT, pages 52?57, SaintRaphae?l, France.Rafael Guzma?n.
2007.
Advanced automatic MTpost-editing using regular expressions.
Multilingual,18(6):49?52.Philipp Koehn and Hieu Hoang.
2007.
Factored transla-tion models.
In Proceedings of EMNLP/CoNLL, pages868?876, Prague, Czech Republic.Philipp Koehn and Kevin Knight.
2003.
Empirical meth-ods for compound splitting.
In Proceedings of EACL,pages 187?193, Budapest, Hungary.Philipp Koehn, Franz Josef Och, and Daniel Marcu.2003.
Statistical phrase-based translation.
In Pro-ceedings of NAACL, pages 48?54, Edmonton, Alberta,Canada.Philipp Koehn, Hieu Hoang, Alexandra Birch, ChrisCallison-Burch, Marcello Federico, Nicola Bertoldi,Brooke Cowan, Wade Shen, Christine Moran, RichardZens, Chris Dyer, Ondrej Bojar, Alexandra Con-stantin, and Evan Herbst.
2007.
Moses: Open sourcetoolkit for statistical machine translation.
In Proceed-ings of ACL, demonstration session, pages 177?180,Prague, Czech Republic.Jin-Ji Li, Jungi Kim, Dong-Il Kim, and Jong-HyeokLee.
2009.
Chinese syntactic reordering for ade-quate generation of Korean verbal phrases in Chinese-to-Korean SMT.
In Proceedings of WMT, pages 190?196, Athens, Greece.Sonja Nie?en and Hermann Ney.
2000.
Improving SMTquality with morpho-syntactic analysis.
In Proceed-ings of CoLing, pages 1081?1085, Saarbru?cken, Ger-many.Kishore Papineni, Salim Roukos, Todd Ward, and Wei-Jing Zhu.
2002.
BLEU: A method for automatic eval-uation of machine translation.
In Proceedings of ACL,pages 311?318, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, USA.Maja Popovic?, Daniel Stein, and Hermann Ney.
2006.Statistical machine translation of German compoundwords.
In Proceedings of FinTAL ?
5th InternationalConference on Natural Language Processing, pages616?624, Turku, Finland.
Springer Verlag, LNCS.Yvonne Samuelsson.
2006.
Nouns in statistical ma-chine translation.
Unpublished manuscript: Term pa-per, Statistical Machine Translation.Sara Stymne and Lars Ahrenberg.
2010.
Using a gram-mar checker for evaluation and postprocessing of sta-tistical machine translation.
In Proceedings of LREC,pages 2175?2181, Valetta, Malta.Sara Stymne and Maria Holmqvist.
2008.
Processing ofSwedish compounds for phrase-based statistical ma-chine translation.
In Proceedings of EAMT, pages180?189, Hamburg, Germany.Sara Stymne.
2008.
German compounds in factored sta-tistical machine translation.
In Proceedings of Go-TAL ?
6th International Conference on Natural Lan-guage Processing, pages 464?475, Gothenburg, Swe-den.
Springer Verlag, LNCS/LNAI.Sara Stymne.
2009a.
A comparison of merging strategiesfor translation of German compounds.
In Proceedingsof EACL, Student Research Workshop, pages 61?69,Athens, Greece.Sara Stymne.
2009b.
Definite noun phrases in statisticalmachine translation into Danish.
In Proceedings of theWorkshop on Extracting and Using Constructions inNLP, pages 4?9, Odense, Denmark.Sara Stymne.
2011a.
Blast: A tool for error analysis ofmachine translation output.
In Proceedings of ACL,demonstration session, Portland, Oregon, USA.Sara Stymne.
2011b.
Definite noun phrases in statisticalmachine translation into Scandinavian languages.
InProceedings of EAMT, Leuven, Belgium.Sara Stymne.
2011c.
Iterative reordering and wordalignment for statistical MT.
In Proceedings of the18th Nordic Conference on Computational Linguis-tics, Riga, Latvia.David Vilar, Jia Xu, Luis Fernando D?Haro, and Her-mann Ney.
2006.
Error analysis of machine transla-tion output.
In Proceedings of LREC, pages 697?702,Genoa, Italy.Sami Virpioja, Jaako J. Va?yrynen, Mathias Creutz, andMarkus Sadeniemi.
2007.
Morphology-aware statis-tical machine translation based on morphs induced inan unsupervised manner.
In Proceedings of MT Sum-mit XI, pages 491?498, Copenhagen, Denmark.Wei Wang, Jonathan May, Kevin Knight, and DanielMarcu.
2010.
Re-structuring, re-labeling, and re-aligning for syntax-based machine translation.
Com-putational Linguistics, 36(2):247?277.Fei Xia and Michael McCord.
2004.
Improving a sta-tistical MT system with automatically learned rewritepatterns.
In Proceedings of CoLing, pages 508?514,Geneva, Switzerland.Min Zhang, Hongfei Jiang, Ai Ti Aw, Jun Sun, Sheng Li,and Chew Lim Tan.
2007a.
A tree-to-tree alignment-based model for statistical machine translation.
InProceedings of MT Summit XI, pages 535?542, Copen-hagen, Denmark.Yuqi Zhang, Richard Zens, and Hermann Ney.
2007b.Improved chunk-level reordering for statistical ma-chine translation.
In Proceedings of the InternationalWorkshop on Spoken Language Translation, pages 21?28, Trento, Italy.17
