Proceedings of the ACL-HLT 2011 Student Session, pages 117?121,Portland, OR, USA 19-24 June 2011. c?2011 Association for Computational LinguisticsAutomatic Headline Generation using Character Cross-CorrelationFahad A. AlotaibyDepartment of Electrical Engineering,College of Engineering, King Saud UniversityP.O.Box 800, Riyadh 11421, Saudi Arabiafalotaiby@hotmail.comAbstractArabic language is a morphologically com-plex language.
Affixes and clitics are regu-larly attached to stems which make directcomparison between words not practical.
Inthis paper we propose a new automaticheadline generation technique that utilizescharacter cross-correlation to extract bestheadlines and to overcome the Arabic lan-guage complex morphology.
The systemthat uses character cross-correlationachieves ROUGE-L score of 0.19384 whilethe exact word matching scores only0.17252 for the same set of documents.1 IntroductionA headline is considered as a condensed summaryof a document.
It can be classified as the acme oftext summarization.
The necessity for automaticheadline generation has been raised due to the needto handle huge amount of documents, which is atedious and time-consuming process.
Instead ofreading every document, the headline can be usedto decide which of them contains important infor-mation.There are two major disciplines towards auto-matic headline generation: extractive and abstrac-tive.
In the work of (Douzidia and Lapalme, 2004),and extractive method was used to produce a 10-words summary (which can be considered as aheadline) of an Arabic document, and then it wasautomatically translated into English.
Therefore,the reported score reflects the accuracy of the gen-eration and translation which makes it difficult toevaluate the process of headline generation of thissystem.
Hedge Trimmer (Dorr et al, 2003) is asystem that creates a headline for an English news-paper story using linguistically-motivated heuris-tics to choose a potential headline.
Jin andHauptmann (2002) proposed a probabilistic modelfor headline generation in which they divide head-line generation process into two steps; namely thestep of distilling the information source from theobservation of a document and the step of generat-ing a title from the estimated information source,but it was for English documents.1.1 Headline LengthOne of the tasks of the Document UnderstandingConference of 2004 (DUC 2004) was generating avery short summary which can be considered as aheadline.
The evaluation was done on the first 75bytes of the summary.
Knowing that the averageword size in Arabic is 5 characters (Alotaiby et al2009) in addition to space characters, the specifiedsummary size in Arabic words was roughlyequivalent to 12 words.
In the meantime, the aver-age length of the headlines was about 8 words inthe Arabic Gigaword corpus (Graff, 2007) of ar-ticles and their headlines.
In this work, a 10-wordsheadline is considered as an appropriate length.1.2 Arabic LanguageClassical Arabic writing system was originallyconsonantal and written from right to left.
Everyletter in the 28 Arabic alphabets represents a singleconsonant.
To overcome the problem of differentpronunciations of consonants in Arabic text, graph-117ical signs known as diacritics were invented in theseventh century.
Currently in the Modern StandardArabic (MSA), diacritics are omitted from writtentext almost all the time.
As a result, this omissionincreases the number homographs (words with thesame writing form).
However, Arab readers nor-mally differentiate between homographs by thecontext of the script.Moreover, Arabic is a morphologically complexlanguage.
An Arabic word may be constructed outof a stem plus affixes and clitics.
Furthermore,some parts of the stem may be deleted or modifiedwhen appending a clitic to it according to specificorthographical rules.
As a final point, different or-thographic conventions exist across the Arab world(Buckwalter, 2004).
As a result of omitting diacrit-ics, complex morphology and different orthograph-ical rules, two same words may be regarded asdifferent if compared literally.2 Evaluation ToolsCorrectly evaluating the automatically generatedheadlines is an important phase.
Automatic me-thods for evaluating machine generated headlinesare preferred against human evaluations becausethey are faster, cost effective and can be performedrepeatedly.
However, they are not trivial becauseof various factors such as readability of headlinesand adequacy of headlines (whether headlines in-dicate the main content of news story).
Hence, it ishard for a computer program to judge.
Neverthe-less, there are some automatic metrics available forheadline evaluation.
F1, BLEU (Papineni et al2002) and ROUGE (Lin, 2004a) are the main me-trics used.The evaluation of this experiment was performedusing Recall-Oriented Understudy for GistingEvaluation (ROUGE).
ROUGE is a system formeasuring the quality of a summary by comparingit to a correct summary created by human.
ROUGEprovides four different measures, namely ROUGE-n (usually n = 1,2,3,4), ROUGE-L, ROUGE-W,ROUGE-S and ROUGE-SU.
Lin (2004b) showedthat ROUGE-1, ROUGE-L, ROUGE-SU, andROUGE-W were very good measures in the cate-gory of short summaries.3 Preparing DataThe dataset used in this work was extracted fromArabic Gigaword (Graff, 2007).
The Arabic Giga-word is a collection of text data extracted fromnewswire archives of Arabic news sources andtheir titles that have been gathered over severalyears by the Linguistic Data Consortium (LDC) atthe University of Pennsylvania.
Text data in theArabic Gigaword were collected from four news-papers and two press agencies.
The Arabic Giga-word corpus contains almost two milliondocuments with nearly 600 million words.
For thiswork, 260 documents were selected from the cor-pus based on the following steps:?
3170 documents were selected automati-cally according to the following:i.
The length of the document body is be-tween 300 to 1000 wordsii.
The length of the headline (hereaftercalled original headline) was between 7to 15 words.iii.
All words in the original headline mustbe found in the document body.?
260 documents were randomly selectedfrom the 3170 documents.After automatically generating the headlines, 3native Arabic speaker examiners were hired to eva-luate one of the generated headlines as well as theoriginal headline.
Also, they were asked to gener-ate 1 headline each for every document.
These new3 headlines will be used as reference headlines inROUGE to evaluate all automatically generatedheadlines and the original headline.4 Headline  Extraction TechniquesThe main idea of the used method is to extract themost appropriate set of consecutive words (phrase)from a document body that should represent anadequate headline for the document.
Then, eva-luate those headlines by calculating ROUGE scoreagainst a set of 3 reference headlines.To do so, first, a list of nominated headlines wascreated from the document body.
After this, fourdifferent evaluation methods were applied tochoose the best headline that reflects the idea ofthe document among the nominated list.
The taskof these methods is to catch the most suitable head-line that matches the document.
The idea here is to118choose the headline that contains the largest num-ber of the most frequent words in the documenttaking into account ignoring stop words and givingearlier sentences in documents more weight.4.1 Nominating a List of HeadlinesA window of a length of 10-words was passed overthe paragraphs word by word to generate chunks ofconsecutive words that could be used as headlines.Moving the widow one word step may corrupt thefluency of the sentences.
A simple approach to re-duce this issue is to minimize the size of para-graphs.
Therefore, the document body was dividedinto smaller paragraphs at new-line, comma, colonand period characters.
This step increased thenumber of nominated headlines with proper startand end.
The resulting is a nominated list of head-lines of a length of 10 words.
In the case of a para-graph of a length less than 10, there will be onlyone nominated headline of the same length of thatparagraph.Table 1 shows an example of nominating headlinelist where a is the selected paragraph, b is the firstnominated headline and c is the second nominatedheadline.
Nominated headlines b and c are word-by-word translated.a   ??????
????
?????????
???????
??
???????
?????
?????????????????????
???????
?The emerging of the Arabic manuscripts inSudan was associated with the rise of theformation of Arabic-Islamic culture,b  ?????????
???????
??
???????
?????
?????
??????
???????????
??????
?Associated emerging manuscripts Arabic inSudan with-rise formation culture Arabicc  ????
?????????
???????
??
???????
?????
?????
??????????????????????
?Emerging manuscripts Arabic in Sudanwith-rise formation culture Arabic IslamicTable 1: An example of headlines nomination.4.2 Calculating Word Matching ScoreThe very basic process of making a matching scorebetween every two words in the document body isto give a score of 1 if the two words exactly matchor 0 if there is even one mismatch character.
Thisbasic step is called the Exact Word Matching(EWM).
Unfortunately, Arabic language containsclitics and is morphologically rich.
This means thesame word could appear with a single clitic at-tached to it and yet to be considered as a differentword in the EWM method.
Therefore, the idea ofusing Character Cross-Correlation (CCC) methodemerged.
In which a variable score in the range of0 to 1 is calculated depending on how much cha-racters match with each other.
For example, if theword ????????
?and he wrote it?
is compared withthe word ?????
?he wrote?
using the EWM methodthe resulting score will be 0, but when using theCCC method it will be 0.667.
The CCC methodcomes from signals cross-correlation which meas-ures of similarity of two waveforms.
In the CCCmethod the score is calculated according to thefollowing equation:,  =       [ ]                                   (1)and[ ] = ?
[ ] ?
[ +  ]      (   )               (2)where wi is the first word containing M characters,wj is the second word containing N characters andthe operation * result 1 if the two correspondingcharacters match each other and 0 otherwise.4.3 Calculating Best Headline ScoreAfter preparing the two tables of words matchingscore, now they will be utilized in the selection ofthe best headline.
Except stop-words, every wordin the document body (wd) will be matched withevery word in the nominated headline (wh) usingthe CCC and the EWM methods and a score willbe registered for every nominated sentence.
A sim-ple stop-word list consisting of about 180 wordswas created for this purpose.
Calculating matchingscore for every sentence is also performed in twoways.
The first way is the SUM method which isdefined in the following equation:=  ?
?
,                                (3)where SUMp is the score using SUM method forthe nominated headline p,  K is the size of uniquewords in the document body and L is the size ofwords in the nominated headline (except stop-words).In this method the summation of the cross-correlation score of every word in the documentbody and every word in the headline is added up.119In a similar way, in the other method MAXp themaximum score between every word in the docu-ment body and the nominated headline is added up.Therefore, for every word in the document, itsmaximum matching score will be added in eithercases, CCC or EWM.
And it can be defined in thefollowing equation:= ?
max      ,                           (4)SUMp and MAXp were calculated using EWMand CCC method resulting four different variationof the algorithm namely SUM-EWM, SUM-CCC,MAX-EWM and MAX-CCC.4.4 Weighing Early Nominated HeadlinesIn the case of news articles usually the early sen-tences absorb the subject of the article (Wasson,1998).
To reflect that, a nonlinear multiplicativescaling factor was applied.
With this scaling factor,late sentences are penalized.
The suggested scalingfactor is inspired from sigmoid functions and de-scribed in the following equations.= ?
?
1 /2                                 (5)where= 5     ?
1                                             (6)and r is the rank of the nominated headline and S isthe total number of sentences.Figure 1: Scaling function of a 1000 nominatedheadline document.According the nominating mechanism hundredsof sentences could be nominated as possible head-lines.
Figure 1 shows the scaling function of a onethousand nominated headlines.
After applying thescaling factor, the headline with the maximumscore was chosen.5 ResultsTable 2 shows the ROUGE-1 and ROUGE-Lscores on the test data.
ROUGE-1 measures the co-occurrences of unigrams where ROUGE-L is basedon the longest common subsequence (LCS) of anautomatically generated headline and the referenceheadlines.It is clear that the MAX-CCC scores the highestresult in the automatically generated headlines.Unfortunately there are no available results on anArabic headline generation system to compare withand it is not right to compare these results withother systems applied on other languages or differ-ent datasets.
So, to give ROUGE score a meaning-ful aspect, the original headline was evaluated inaddition to randomly selected 10 words (Rand-10)and the first 10 words (Lead-10) in the document.Method ROUGE-1(95%-conf.)ROUGE-L(95%-conf.
)Rand-10 0.08153 0.07081Lead-10 0.18353 0.17592SUM-EWM  0.11006 0.10624SUM-CCC 0.18974 0.17944MAX-EWM 0.18279 0.17252MAX-CCC 0.20367 0.19384Original 0.37683 0.36329Table 2: ROUGE scores on the test data.From the registered results it is clear that theMAX-CCC has overcome the problem of the richexistence of clitics and morphology.6 ConclusionsWe have shown the effectiveness of using charac-ter cross-correlation in choosing the best headlineout of nominated sentences from Arabic document.The advantage of using character cross-correlationis to overcome the complex morphology of theArabic language.
In the comparative experiment,character cross-correlation got ROUGE-L=0.19384and outperformed the exact word match which gotROUGE-L= 0.17252.
Therefore, we conclude thatcharacter cross-correlation is effective when com-0 100 200 300 400 500 600 700 800 900 100000.10.20.30.40.50.60.70.80.91Nominated Headline Rank rScalingFactorSFScaling Function120paring words in morphologically complex lan-guages such as Arabic.AcknowledgmentsI would like to thank His Excellency the Rector ofKing Saud University Prof. Abdullah Bin Abdu-lrahman Alothman for supporting this work by adirect grant.
I would also like to thank Dr. SalahFoda and Dr. Ibrahim Alkharashi, my PhD super-visors, for their help in this work.ReferencesBonnie Dorr, David Zajic and Richard Schwartz.
HedgeTrimmer: A Parse-and-Trim Approach to HeadlineGeneration.
In Proceedings of the HLT-NAACL2003 Text Summarization Workshop and DocumentUnderstanding Conference (DUC 2003), Edmonton,Alberta, 2003.Chin-Yew Lin, ROUGE: a Package for AutomaticEvaluation of Summaries.
In Proceedings of theWorkshop on Text Summarization Branches Out,pages 56-60, Barcelona, Spain, July, 2004a.Chin-Yew Lin, Looking for a few Good Metrics:ROUGE and its Evaluation, In Working Notes ofNTCIR-4 (Vol.
Supl.
2), 2004b.Document Understanding Conference,http://duc.nist.gov/duc2004/tasks.html, 2004.Fahad Alotaiby, Ibrahim Alkharashi and Salah Foda.Processing large Arabic text corpora: Preliminaryanalysis and results.
In Proceedings of the Second In-ternational Conference on Arabic Language Re-sources and Tools, pages 78-82, Cairo, Egypt, 2009.Fouad Douzidia and Guy Lapalme, Lakhas, an Arabicsummarization system.
In Proceedings of DocumentUnderstanding Conference (DUC), Boston, MA,USA, 2004.David Graff.
Arabic Gigaword Third Edition.
LinguisticData Consortium.
Philadelphia, USA, 2007.Kishore Papineni, Salim Roukos, Todd Ward, and Wei-Jing Zhu, BLEU: a Method for Automatic Evaluationof Machine Translation.
In Proceedings of the 40thAnnual Meeting of the Association for Computation-al Linguistics (ACL), 2002.Mark Wasson.
Using Lead Text for news Summaries:Evaluation Results and Implications for CommercialSummarization Applications.
In Proceedings of the17th International Conference on Computational li-guistics, Montreal, Canada, 1998.Rong Jin, and Alex G. Hauptmann, A New ProbabilisticModel for Title Generation, The 19th InternationalConference on Computational Linguistics, AcademiaSinica, Taipei, Taiwan, 2002.Tim Buckwalter.
Issues in Arabic Orthography andMorphology Analysis.
In Proceedings of the Work-shop on Computational Approaches to Arabic Script-based Languages, Geneva, Switzerland, 2004.Zajic.
D., Dorr.
B. and Richard Schwartz.
AutomaticHeadline Generation for Newspaper Stories.
InWorkshop on Automatic Summarization, pages.
78-85,  Philadelphia, PA, 2002.121
