Proceedings of the 49th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics:shortpapers, pages 514?518,Portland, Oregon, June 19-24, 2011. c?2011 Association for Computational LinguisticsTyped Graph Models for Semi-Supervised Learning of Name EthnicityDelip RaoDept.
of Computer ScienceJohns Hopkins Universitydelip@cs.jhu.eduDavid YarowskyDept.
of Computer ScienceJohns Hopkins Universityyarowsky@cs.jhu.eduAbstractThis paper presents an original approach tosemi-supervised learning of personal nameethnicity from typed graphs of morphophone-mic features and first/last-name co-occurrencestatistics.
We frame this as a general solu-tion to an inference problem over typed graphswhere the edges represent labeled relations be-tween features that are parameterized by theedge types.
We propose a framework forparameter estimation on different construc-tions of typed graphs for this problem us-ing a gradient-free optimization method basedon grid search.
Results on both in-domainand out-of-domain data show significant gainsover 30% accuracy improvement using thetechniques presented in the paper.1 IntroductionIn the highly relational world of NLP, graphs area natural way to represent relations and constraintsamong entities of interest.
Even problems that arenot obviously graph based can be effectively andproductively encoded as a graph.
Such an encodingwill often be comprised of nodes, edges that repre-sent the relation, and weights on the edges that couldbe a metric or a probability-based value, and typeinformation for the nodes and edges.
Typed graphsare a frequently-used formalism in natural languageproblems including dependency parsing (McDonaldet al, 2005), entity disambiguation (Minkov and Co-hen, 2007), and social networks to just mention afew.In this paper, we consider the problem of iden-tifying a personal attribute such as ethnicity fromonly an observed first-name/last-name pair.
This hasimportant consequences in targeted advertising andpersonalization in social networks, and in gatheringintelligence for business and government research.We propose a parametrized typed graph frameworkfor this problem and perform the hidden attribute in-ference using random walks on typed graphs.
Wealso propose a novel application of a gradient-freeoptimization technique based on grid search for pa-rameter estimation in typed graphs.
Although, wedescribe this in the context of person-attribute learn-ing, the techniques are general enough to be appliedto various typed graph based problems.2 Data for Person-Ethnicity LearningName ethnicity detection is a particularly challeng-ing (and practical) problem in Nigeria given thatit has more than 250 ethnicities1 with minor vari-ations.
We constructed a dictionary of Nigeriannames and their associated ethnicity by crawlingbaby name sites and other Nigerian diaspora web-sites (e.g.
onlinenigeria.com) to compile a name dic-tionary of 1980 names with their ethnicity.
We re-tained the top 4 ethnicities ?
Yoruba, Igbo, EfikIbibio, and Benin Edo2.
In addition we also crawledFacebook to identify Nigerians from different com-munities.
There are more details to this dataset that1https://www.cia.gov/library/publications/the-world-factbook/geos/ni.html2Although the Hausa-Fulani is a populous community fromthe north of Nigeria, we did not include it as our dictionary hadvery few Hausa-Fulani names.
Further, Hausa-Fulani names arepredominantly Arabic or Arabic derivatives and stand out fromthe rest of the ethnic groups, making their detection easier.514will be made available with the data itself for futureresearch.3 Random Walks on Typed GraphsConsider a graph G = (V,E), with edge set E de-fined on the vertices in V .
A typed graph is onewhere every vertex v in V has an associated typetv ?
TV .
Analogously, we also use edge typesTE ?
TV ?
TV .
Some examples of typed edgesand vertices used in this paper are shown in Table 1.These will be elaborated further in Section 4.Vertices POSITIONAL BIGRAM, BIGRAM,TRIGRAM, FIRST NAME, LAST NAME, .
.
.Edges POSITION (POSITIONAL BIGRAM?
BIGRAM),32BACKOFF (TRIGRAM?
BIGRAM),CONCURRENCE (FIRST NAME?
LAST NAME),.
.
.Table 1: Example types for vertices and edges in thegraph for name morpho-phonemicsWith every edge type te ?
TE we associate a real-valued parameter ?
?
[0, 1].
Thus our graph is pa-rameterized by a set of parameters ?
with |?| =|TE |.
We will need to learn these parameters fromthe training data; more on this in Section 5.
We re-lax the estimation problem by forcing the graph tobe undirected.
This effectively reduces the numberof parameters by half.We now have a weighted graph with a weightmatrix W(?).
The probability transition matrixP(?)
for the random walk is derived by notingP(?)
= D(?)?1W(?)
where D(?)
is the diagonalweighted-degree matrix, i.e, dii(?)
=?j wij(?
).From this point on, we rely on standard label-propagation based semi-supervised classificationtechniques (Zhu et al, 2003; Baluja et al, 2008;Talukdar et al, 2008) that work by spreading proba-bility mass across the edges in the graph.
While tra-ditional label propagation methods proceed by con-structing graphs using some kernel or arbitrary sim-ilarity measures, our method estimates the appro-priate weight matrix from training data using gridsearch.4 Graph constructionOur graphs have two kinds of nodes ?
nodes we wantto classify ?
called target nodes and feature nodeswhich correspond to different feature types.
Someof the target nodes can optionally have label infor-mation, these are called seed nodes and are excludedfrom evaluation.
Every feature instance has its ownnode and an edge exists between a target node anda feature node if the target node instantiates the fea-ture.
Features are not independent.
For example thetrigram aba also indicates the presence of the bi-grams ab and ba .
We encode this relationshipbetween features by adding typed edges.
For in-stance, in the previous case, a typed edge (32BACK-OFF) is added between the trigram aba and the bi-gram ab representing the backoff relation.
In theabsence of these edges between features, our graphwould have been bipartite.
We experimented withthree kinds of graphs for this task:First name/Last name (FN LN) graphAs a first attempt, we only considered first and lastnames as features generated by a name.
The namewe wish to classify is treated as a target node.
Thereare two typed relations 1) between the first and lastname, called CONCURRENCE, where the first andlast names occur together and 2) Where an edge,SHARED NAME, exists between two first (last)names if they share a last (first) name.
Hence thereare only two parameters to estimate here.Figure 1: A part of the First name/Last name graph:Edges indicate co-occurrence or a shared name.Character Ngram graphThe ethnicity of personal names are often indi-cated by morphophonemic features of the individ-ual?s given/first or family/last names.
For exam-ple, the last names Polanski, Piotrowski, Soszyn-ski, Sikorski with the suffix ski indicate Polish de-scent.
Instead of writing suffix rules, we generatecharacter n-gram features from names ranging from515Figure 2: A part of the character n-gram graph: Ob-serve how the suffix osun contributes to the inferenceof adeosun as a Yoruba name even though it was neverseen in training.
The different colors on the edges rep-resent edge types whose weights are estimated from thedata.bigrams to 5-grams and all orders in-between.
Wefurther distinguish n-grams that appear in the begin-ning (corresponding to prefixes), middle, and end(corresponding to suffixes).
Thus the last name,mosun in the graph is connected to the follow-ing positional trigrams mos-BEG , osu-MID ,sun-END besides positional n-grams of other or-ders.
The positional trigram mos-BEG connectedto the position-independent trigram mos using thetyped edge POSITION.
Further, the trigram mosis connected to the bigrams mo and os usinga 32BACKOFF edge.
The resulting graph hasfour typed relations ?
32BACKOFF, 43BACKOFF,45BACKOFF, and POSITION ?
and four corre-sponding parameters to be estimated.Combined graphFinally, we consider the union of the character n-gram graph and the FirstName-LastName graph.
Ta-ble 2 lists some summary statistics for the variousgraphs.#Vertices #Edges Avg.
degreeFN LN 22.8K 137.2K 3.6CHAR.
NGRAM 282.6K 1.2M 8.7COMBINED 282.6K 1.3M 9.2Table 2: Graphs for person name ethnicity classification5 Grid Search for Parameter EstimationThe typed graph we constructed in the previous sec-tion has as many parameters as the number of edgetypes, i.e, |?| = |TE |.
We further constrain the val-ues taken by the parameters to be in the range [0, 1].Note that there is no loss of representation in doingso, as arbitrary real-valued weights on edges can benormalized to the range [0, 1].
Our objective is tofind a set of values for ?
that maximizes the classi-fication accuracy.
Towards that effect, we quantizethe range [0, 1] into k equally sized bins and con-vert this to a discrete-valued optimization problem.While this is an approximation, our experience findsthat relative values of the various ?i ?
?
are moreimportant than the absolute values for label propa-gation.Figure 3: Grid search on a unit 2-simplex with k = 4.The complexity of this search procedure is O(kn)for k bins and n parameters.
For problems withsmall number of parameters, like ours (n = 4 orn = 2 depending on the graph model), and withfewer bins this search is still tractable although com-putationally expensive.
We set k = 4; this resultsin 256 combinations to be searched at most and weevaluate each combination in parallel on a cluster.Clearly, this exhaustive search works only for prob-lems with few parameters.
However, grid search canstill be used in problems with large number of edgetypes using one of the following two techniques: 1)Randomly sample with replacement from a Dirichletdistribution with same order as the number of bins.Evaluate using parameter values from each sampleon the development set.
Select the parameter valuesthat result in highest accuracy on the developmentset from a large number of samples.
2) Perform a516coarse grained search first using a small k on therange [0, 1] and use that result to shrink the searchrange.
Perform grid search again on this smallerrange.
We simply search exhaustively given the na-ture of our problem.6 Experiments & ResultsWe evaluated our three different model variants un-der two settings: 1) When only a weak prior fromthe dictionary data is present; we call this ?out-of-domain?
since we don?t use any labels from Face-book and 2) when both the dictionary prior and somelabels from the Facebook data is present; we call this?in-domain?.
The results are reported using 10-foldcross-validation.
In addition to the proposed typedgraph models, we show results from a smoothed-Na?
?ve Bayes implementation and two standard base-lines 1) where labels are assigned uniformly at ran-dom (UNIFORM) and 2) where labels are assignedaccording the empirical prior distribution (PRIOR).The baseline accuracies are shown in Table 3.Out-of-domain In-domainUNIFORM 25.0 25.0PRIOR 42.6 42.6Na?
?ve Bayes 75.1 77.2Table 3: Ethnicity-classification accuracy from baselineclassifiers.We performed similar in-domain and out-of-domain experiments for each of the graph modelsproposed in Section 4 and list the results in Table 4,without using grid search.Out-of-domain In-domainFN LN 57.6 60.2CHAR.
NGRAM 73.2 76.8%gain over FN LN 27% 27.6%COMBINED 77.1 78.7%gain over CHAR.
NGRAM 5.3% 2.5%Table 4: Ethnicity-classification accuracy without gridsearchSome points to note about the results reported inTable 4: 1) These results were obtained without us-ing parameters from the grid search based optimiza-tion.
2) The character n-gram graph model performsbetter than the first-name/last-name graph model byitself, as expected due to the smoothing induced bythe backoff edge types.
3) The combination of first-name/last-name graph and the n-gram improves ac-curacy by over 30%.Table 5 reports results from using parameters es-timated using grid search.
The parameter estimationwas done on a development set that was not usedin the 10-fold cross-validation results reported in thetable.
Observe that the parameters estimated via gridsearch always improved performance of label prop-agation.Out-of-domain In-domainFN LN 59.1 61.4CHAR.
NGRAM 76.7 78.5COMBINED 78.6 80.1Improvements by grid search (c.f., Table 4)FN LN 2.6% 2%CHAR.
NGRAM 4.8% 2.2%COMBINED 1.5% 1.7%Table 5: Ethnicity-classification accuracy with gridsearch7 ConclusionsWe considered the problem of learning a person?sethnicity from his/her name as an inference prob-lem over typed graphs, where the edges represent la-beled relations between features that are parameter-ized by the edge types.
We developed a frameworkfor parameter estimation on different constructionsof typed graphs for this problem using a gradient-free optimization method based on grid search.
Wealso proposed alternatives to scale up grid search forlarge problem instances.
Our results show a sig-nificant performance improvement over the baselineand this performance is further improved by param-eter estimation resulting over 30% improvement inaccuracy using the conjunction of techniques pro-posed for the task.ReferencesShumeet Baluja, Rohan Seth, D. Sivakumar, Yushi Jing,Jay Yagnik, Shankar Kumar, Deepak Ravichandran,and Mohamed Aly.
2008.
Video suggestion and dis-covery for youtube: taking random walks through theview graph.
In Proceeding of the 17th internationalconference on World Wide Web.Jonathan Chang, Itamar Rosenn, Lars Backstrom, andCameron Marlow.
2010. epluribus: Ethnicity on so-517cial networks.
In Proceedings of the InternationalConference in Weblogs and Social Media (ICWSM).Ryan McDonald, Fernando Pereira, Kiril Ribarov, andJan Hajic?.
2005.
Non-projective dependency pars-ing using spanning tree algorithms.
In Proceedings ofthe conference on Human Language Technology andEmpirical Methods in Natural Language Processing.Association for Computational Linguistics.Einat Minkov and William Cohen.
2007.
Learning torank typed graph walks: local and global approaches.In Proceedings of the 9th WebKDD and 1st SNA-KDD2007 workshop on Web mining and social networkanalysis, New York, NY, USA.
ACM.Partha Pratim Talukdar, Joseph Reisinger, Marius Pas?ca,Deepak Ravichandran, Rahul Bhagat, and FernandoPereira.
2008.
Weakly-supervised acquisition of la-beled class instances using graph random walks.
InProceedings of the Conference on Empirical Meth-ods in Natural Language Processing.
Association forComputational Linguistics.Xiaojin Zhu, Zoubin Ghahramani, and John Lafferty.2003.
Semi-supervised learning using gaussian fieldsand harmonic functions.
In Proceedings of the Inter-national Conference in Machine Learning, pages 912?919.518
