Proceedings of the 50th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics, pages 359?368,Jeju, Republic of Korea, 8-14 July 2012. c?2012 Association for Computational LinguisticsCollective Generation of Natural Image DescriptionsPolina Kuznetsova, Vicente Ordonez, Alexander C. Berg,Tamara L. Berg and Yejin ChoiDepartment of Computer ScienceStony Brook UniversityStony Brook, NY 11794-4400{pkuznetsova,vordonezroma,aberg,tlberg,ychoi}@cs.stonybrook.eduAbstractWe present a holistic data-driven approachto image description generation, exploit-ing the vast amount of (noisy) parallel im-age data and associated natural languagedescriptions available on the web.
Morespecifically, given a query image, we re-trieve existing human-composed phrasesused to describe visually similar images,then selectively combine those phrasesto generate a novel description for thequery image.
We cast the generation pro-cess as constraint optimization problems,collectively incorporating multiple inter-connected aspects of language compositionfor content planning, surface realizationand discourse structure.
Evaluation by hu-man annotators indicates that our finalsystem generates more semantically cor-rect and linguistically appealing descrip-tions than two nontrivial baselines.1 IntroductionAutomatically describing images in natural lan-guage is an intriguing, but complex AI task, re-quiring accurate computational visual recogni-tion, comprehensive world knowledge, and natu-ral language generation.
Some past research hassimplified the general image description goal byassuming that relevant text for an image is pro-vided (e.g., Aker and Gaizauskas (2010), Fengand Lapata (2010)).
This allows descriptions tobe generated using effective summarization tech-niques with relatively surface level image under-standing.
However, such text (e.g., news articlesor encyclopedic text) is often only loosely relatedto an image?s specific content and many natu-ral images do not come with associated text forsummarization.In contrast, other recent work has focusedmore on the visual recognition aspect by de-tecting content elements (e.g., scenes, objects,attributes, actions, etc) and then composing de-scriptions from scratch (e.g., Yao et al (2010),Kulkarni et al (2011), Yang et al (2011), Liet al (2011)), or by retrieving existing wholedescriptions from visually similar images (e.g.,Farhadi et al (2010), Ordonez et al (2011)).
Forthe latter approaches, it is unrealistic to expectthat there will always exist a single complete de-scription for retrieval that is pertinent to a givenquery image.
For the former approaches, visualrecognition first generates an intermediate rep-resentation of image content using a set of En-glish words, then language generation constructsa full description by adding function words andoptionally applying simple re-ordering.
Becausethe generation process sticks relatively closelyto the recognized content, the resulting descrip-tions often lack the kind of coverage, creativ-ity, and complexity typically found in human-written text.In this paper, we propose a holistic data-driven approach that combines and extends thebest aspects of these previous approaches ?
a)using visual recognition to directly predict indi-vidual image content elements, and b) using re-trieval from existing human-composed descrip-tions to generate natural, creative, and inter-359esting captions.
We also lift the restriction ofretrieving existing whole descriptions by gather-ing visually relevant phrases which we combineto produce novel and query-image specific de-scriptions.
By judiciously exploiting the corre-spondence between image content elements andphrases, it is possible to generate natural lan-guage descriptions that are substantially richerin content and more linguistically interestingthan previous work.At a high level, our approach can be moti-vated by linguistic theories about the connectionbetween reading activities and writing skills,i.e., substantial reading enriches writing skills,(e.g., Hafiz and Tudor (1989), Tsang (1996)).Analogously, our generation algorithm attains ahigher level of linguistic sophistication by read-ing large amounts of descriptive text availableonline.
Our approach is also motivated by lan-guage grounding by visual worlds (e.g., Roy(2002), Dindo and Zambuto (2010), Monner andReggia (2011)), as in our approach the mean-ing of a phrase in a description is implicitlygrounded by the relevant content of the image.Another important thrust of this work is col-lective image-level content-planning, integratingsaliency, content relations, and discourse struc-ture based on statistics drawn from a largeimage-text parallel corpus.
This contrasts withprevious approaches that generate multiple sen-tences without considering discourse flow or re-dundancy (e.g., Li et al (2011)).
For example,for an image showing a flock of birds, generatinga large number of sentences stating the relativeposition of each bird is probably not useful.Content planning and phrase synthesis canbe naturally viewed as constraint optimizationproblems.
We employ Integer Linear Program-ming (ILP) as an optimization framework thathas been used successfully in other generationtasks (e.g., Clarke and Lapata (2006), Mar-tins and Smith (2009), Woodsend and Lapata(2010)).
Our ILP formulation encodes a richset of linguistically motivated constraints andweights that incorporate multiple aspects of thegeneration process.
Empirical results demon-strate that our final system generates linguisti-cally more appealing and semantically more cor-rect descriptions than two nontrivial baselines.1.1 System OverviewOur system consists of two parts.
For a queryimage, we first retrieve candidate descriptivephrases from a large image-caption database us-ing measures of visual similarity (?2).
We thengenerate a coherent description from these can-didates using ILP formulations for content plan-ning (?4) and surface realization (?5).2 Vision & Phrase RetrievalFor a query image, we retrieve relevant candi-date natural language phrases by visually com-paring the query image to database images fromthe SBU Captioned Photo Collection (Ordonezet al, 2011) (1 million photographs with asso-ciated human-composed descriptions).
Visualsimilarity for several kinds of image content areused to compare the query image to images fromthe database, including: 1) object detections for89 common object categories (Felzenszwalb etal., 2010), 2) scene classifications for 26 com-mon scene categories (Xiao et al, 2010), and3) region based detections for stuff categories(e.g.
grass, road, sky) (Ordonez et al, 2011).All content types are pre-computed on the mil-lion database photos, and caption parsing is per-formed using the Berkeley PCFG parser (Petrovet al, 2006; Petrov and Klein, 2007).Given a query image, we identify content el-ements present using the above classifiers anddetectors and then retrieve phrases referring tothose content elements from the database.
Forexample, if we detect a horse in a query im-age, then we retrieve phrases referring to vi-sually similar horses in the database by com-paring the color, texture (Leung and Malik,1999), or shape (Dalal and Triggs, 2005; Lowe,2004) of the detected horse to detected horsesin the database images.
We collect four types ofphrases for each query image as follows:[1] NPs We retrieve noun phrases for eachquery object detection (e.g., ?the brown cow?
)from database captions using visual similar-ity between object detections computed as anequally weighted linear combination of L2 dis-360tances on histograms of color, texton (Leung andMalik, 1999), HoG (Dalal and Triggs, 2005) andSIFT (Lowe, 2004) features.
[2] VPs We retrieve verb phrases for eachquery object detection (e.g.
?boy running?
)from database captions using the same mea-sure of visual similarity as for NPs, but restrict-ing the search to only those database instanceswhose captions contain a verb phrase referringto the object category.
[3] Region/Stuff PPs We collect preposi-tional phrases for each query stuff detection (e.g.
?in the sky?, ?on the road?)
by measuring visualsimilarity of appearance (color, texton, HoG)and geometric configuration (object-stuff rela-tive location and distance) between query anddatabase detections.
[4] Scene PPs We also collect prepositonalphrases referring to general image scene context(e.g.
?at the market?, ?on hot summer days?,?in Sweden?)
based on global scene similaritycomputed using L2 distance between scene clas-sification score vectors (Xiao et al, 2010) com-puted on the query and database images.3 Overview of ILP FormulationFor each image, we aim to generate multiplesentences, each sentence corresponding to a sin-gle distinct object detected in the given image.Each sentence comprises of the NP for the mainobject, and a subset of the corresponding VP,region/stuff PP, and scene PP retrieved in ?2.We consider four different types of operationsto generate the final description for each image:T1.
Selecting the set of objects to describe (oneobject per sentence).T2.
Re-ordering sentences (i.e., re-ordering ob-jects).T3.
Selecting the set of phrases for each sen-tence.T4.
Re-ordering phrases within each sentence.The ILP formulation of ?4 addresses T1 & T2,i.e., content-planning, and the ILP of ?5 ad-dresses T3 & T4, i.e., surface realization.11It is possible to create one conjoined ILP formulationto address all four operations T1?T4 at once.
For com-4 Image-level Content PlanningFirst we describe image-level content planning,i.e., abstract generation.
The goals are to (1) se-lect a subset of the objects based on saliency andsemantically compatibility, and (2) order the se-lected objects based on their content relations.4.1 Variables and Objective FunctionThe following set of indicator variables encodesthe selection of objects and ordering:ysk =??
?1, if object s is selectedfor position k0, otherwise(1)where k = 1, ..., S encodes the position (order)of the selected objects, and s indexes one of theobjects.
In addition, we define a set of variablesindicating specific pairs of adjacent objects:yskt(k+1) ={1, if ysk = yt(k+1) = 10, otherwise(2)The objective function, F , that we will maxi-mize is a weighted linear combination of theseindicator variables and can be optimized usinginteger linear programming:F =?sFs ?S?k=1ysk ?
?stFst ?S?1?k=1yskt(k+1) (3)where Fs quantifies the salience/confidence ofthe object s, and Fst quantifies the seman-tic compatibility between the objects s and t.These coefficients (weights) will be described in?4.3 and ?4.4.
We use IBM CPLEX to optimizethis objective function subject to the constraintsintroduced next in ?4.2.4.2 ConstraintsConsistency Constraints: We enforce consis-tency between indicator variables for indivisualobjects (Eq.
1) and consecutive objects (Eq.
2)so that yskt(k+1) = 1 iff ysk = 1 and yt(k+1) = 1:?stk, yskt(k+1) ?
ysk (4)yskt(k+1) ?
yt(k+1) (5)yskt(k+1) + (1?
ysk) + (1?
yt(k+1)) ?
1 (6)putational and implementation efficiency however, we optfor the two-step approach.361To avoid empty descriptions, we enforce that theresult includes at least one object:?sys1 = 1 (7)To enforce contiguous positions be selected:?k = 2, ..., S ?
1,?sys(k+1) ?
?sysk (8)Discourse constraints: To avoid spurious de-scriptions, we allow at most two objects of thesame type, where cs is the type of object s:?c ?
objTypes,?
{s: cs=c}S?k=1ysk ?
2 (9)4.3 Weight Fs: Object DetectionConfidenceIn order to quantify the confidence of the objectdetector for the object s, we define 0 ?
Fs ?
1as the mean of the detector scores for that objecttype in the image.4.4 Weight Fst: Ordering andCompatibilityThe weight 0 ?
Fst ?
1 quantifies the compat-ibility of the object pairing (s, t).
Note that inthe objective function, we subtract this quan-tity from the function to be maximized.
Thisway, we create a competing tension between thesingle object selection scores and the pairwisecompatibility scores, so that variable number ofobjects can be selected.Object Ordering Statistics: People have bi-ases on the order of topic or content flow.
Wemeasure these biases by collecting statistics onordering of object names from the 1 million im-age descriptions in the SBU Captioned Dataset(Ordonez et al, 2011).
Let ford(w1, w2) bethe number of times w1 appeared before w2.For instance, ford(window, house) = 2895 andford(house, window) = 1250, suggesting thatpeople are more likely to mention a window be-fore mentioning a house/building2.
We use theseordering statistics to enhance content flow.
Wedefine score for the order of objects using Z-scorefor normalization as follows:F?st =ford(cs, ct)?mean(ford)std dev(ford)(10)2We take into account synonyms.We then transform F?st so that F?st ?
[0,1], andthen set Fst = 1 ?
F?st so that smaller valuescorrespond to better choices.5 Surface RealizationRecall that for each image, the computer vi-sion system identifies phrases from descriptionsof images that are similar in a variety of aspects.The result is a set of phrases representing fourdifferent types of information (?2).
From thisassortment of phrases, we aim to select a subsetand glue them together to compose a completesentence that is linguistically plausible and se-mantically truthful to the content of the image.5.1 Variables and Objective FunctionThe following set of variables encodes the selec-tion of phrases and their ordering in construct-ing S?
sentences.xsijk =??????????
?1, if phrase i of type jis selectedfor position kin sentence s0, otherwise(11)where k = 1, ..., N encodes the ordering of theselected phrases, and j indexes one of the fourphrases types (object-NPs, action-VPs, region-PPs, scene-PPs), i = 1, ...,M indexes one ofthe M candidate phrases of each phrase type,and s = 1, ..., S?
encodes the sentence (object).In addition, we define indicator variables foradjacent pairs of phrases: xsijkpq(k+1) = 1 ifxsijk = xspq(k+1) = 1 and 0 otherwise.
Finally,we define the objective function F as:F =?sijFsij ?N?k=1xsijk?
?sijpqFsijpq ?N?1?k=1xsijkpq(k+1) (12)where Fsij weights individual phrase goodnessand Fsijpq adjacent phrase goodness.
All coeffi-cients (weights) will be described in Section 5.3and 5.4.We optionally prepend the first sentence in agenerated description with a cognitive phrase.33We collect most frequent 200 phrases of length 1-7 that start a caption from the SBU Captioned PhotoCollection.362ILP: I think this is a boy?s bikelied in saltwater for quite awhile.HMM: I liked the way bicyclesleaning against a wall inCopenhagen Denmark in awindy sky in a Singaporebathroom.
Boy?s bike lied insaltwater for quite a while in awindy sky in a Singaporebathroom.
Fruit rubbing hisface in the encrusted snow in awindy sky in a Singaporebathroom.Human: You re nobody inOxford, unless you have a oldbike with a basketILP:This is a photo of this little flower sprouted up in defiance against grass.Bright yellow flowers growing in a rock garden at Volcan Mombacho.HMM: These was taken on the flowers growing in a rock garden in the field in two sorts.
Thislittle flower sprouted up in defiance in the field in two sorts.
A full open flower sprouted up indefiance in the field in gardens.
Bright yellow flowers growing in a rock garden in the field.Human: Yellow flower in my fieldILP: Found trucks parked on first avenue in the east village.HMM: This is the first cellar door left back bedroom in centerand clothes dryer to the right to the building in the house.This HUGE screen hanging on the wall outside a burned downbuilding in the house.
My truck parked on first avenue in theeast village by the glass buildings in the house.Human: Flat bed Chisholms truck on display at the vintagevehicle rall y at Astley Green Colliery near Leigh LancsFigure 1: ILP & HMM generated captions.
In HMM generated captions, underlined phrases show redundancyacross different objects (due to lack of discourse constraints), and phrases in boldface show awkward topicflow (due to lack of content planning).
Note that in the bicycle image, the visual recognizer detected twoseparate bicycles and some fruits, as can be seen in the HMM result.
Via collective image-level contentplanning (see ?4), some of these erroneous detection can be corrected, as shown in the ILP result.
Spuriousand redundant phrases can be suppressed via discourse constraints (see ?5).These are generic constructs that are often usedto start a description about an image, for in-stance, ?This is an image of...?.
We treat thesephrases as an additional type, but omit corre-sponding variables and constraints for brevity.5.2 ConstraintsConsistency Constraints: First we enforceconsistency between the unary variables (Eq.11) and the pairwise variables so that xsijkpqm =1 iff xsijk = 1 and xspqm = 1:?ijkpqm, xsijkpqm ?
xsijk (13)xsijkpqm ?
xspqm (14)xsijkpqm + (1?
xsijk) + (1?
xspqm) ?
1 (15)Next we include constraints similar to Eq.
8(contiguous slots are filled), but omit them forbrevity.
Finally, we add constraints to ensure atleast two phrases are selected for each sentence,to promote informative descriptions.Linguistic constraints: We include linguisti-cally motivated constraints to generate syntacti-cally and semantically plausible sentences.
Firstwe enforce a noun-phrase to be selected to en-sure semantic relevance to the image:?s,?ikxsiNPk = 1 (16)Also, to avoid content redundancy, we allow atmost one phrase of each type:?sj,?iN?k=1xsijk ?
1 (17)Discourse constraints: We allow at mostone prepositional scene phrase for the whole de-scription to avoid redundancy:For j = PPscene,?sikxsijk ?
1 (18)We add constraints that prevent the inclusion ofmore than one phrase with identical head words:?s, ij, pq with the same heads,N?k=1xsijk +N?k=1xspqk ?
1 (19)5.3 Unary Phrase SelectionLet Msij be the confidence score for phrasexsij given by the image?phrase matching al-gorithm (?2).
To make the scores across dif-ferent phrase types comparable, we normalizethem using Z-score: Fsij = norm?
(Msij) =(Msij ?
meanj)/devj , and then transform thevalues into the range of [0,1].5.4 Pairwise Phrase CohesionIn this section, we describe the pairwise phrasecohesion score Fsijpq defined for each xsijpq in363ILP: I like the way the clouds hanging down bythe ground in Dupnitsa of Avikwalal.Human: Car was raised on the wall over a bridgefacing traffic..paramedics were attending thedriver on the groundILP: This is a photo of this bird hoppingaround eating things off of the ground byriver.Human: IMG_6892 Lookn up in the sky its abird its a plane its ah..... youILP: This is a sporty little red convertible made fora great day in Key West FL.
This car was in the 4thparade of the apartment buildings.Human: Hard rock casino exotic car show in JuneILP: Taken in front of my cat sitting in a shoebox.
Cat likes hanging around in my recliner.Human: H happily rests his armpit on awarm Gatorade bottle of water (a smallbottle wrapped in a rag)Figure 2: In some cases (16%), ILP generated captions were preferred over human written ones!the objective function (Eq.
12).
Via Fsijpq,we aim to quantify the degree of syntactic andsemantic cohesion across two phrases xsij andxspq.
Note that we subtract this cohesion scorefrom the objective function.
This trick helps theILP solver to generate sentences with varyingnumber of phrases, rather than always selectingthe maximum number of phrases allowed.N-gram Cohesion Score: We use n-gramstatistics from the Google Web 1-T dataset(Brants and Franz., 2006) Let Lsijpq be the setof all n-grams (2 ?
n ?
5) across xsij and xspq.Then the n-gram cohesion score is computed as:FNGRAMsijpq = 1?
?l?LsijpqNPMI(l)size(Lsijpq)(20)NPMI(ngr) =PMI(ngr)?
PMIminPMImax ?
PMImin(21)Where NPMI is the normalized point-wise mu-tual information.4Co-occurrence Cohesion Score: To cap-ture long-distance cohesion, we introduce a co-occurrence-based score, which measures order-preserved co-occurrence statistics between thehead words hsij and hspq 5.
Let f?
(hsij , hspq)be the sum frequency of all n-grams that startwith hsij , end with hspq and contain a prepo-sition prep(spq) of the phrase spq.
Then the4We include the n-gram cohesion for the sentenceboundaries as well, by approximating statistics for sen-tence boundaries with punctuation marks in the GoogleWeb 1-T data.5For simplicity, we use the last word of a phrase asthe head word, except VPs where we take the main verb.co-occurrence cohesion is computed as:FCOsijpq =max(f?)?
f?
(hsij , hspq)max(f?)?min(f?
)(22)Final Cohesion Score: Finally, the pairwisephrase cohesion score Fijpq is a weighted sum ofn-gram and co-occurrence cohesion scores:Fsijpq =?
?
FNGRAMsijpq + ?
?
FCOsijpq?+ ?
(23)where ?
and ?
can be tuned via grid search,and FNGRAMijpq and FCOijpq are normalized ?
[0, 1]for comparability.
Notice that Fsijpq is in therange [0,1] as well.6 EvaluationTestSet: Because computer vision is a challeng-ing and unsolved problem, we restrict our queryset to images where we have high confidence thatvisual recognition algorithms perform well.
Wecollect 1000 test images by running a large num-ber (89) of object detectors on 20,000 imagesand selecting images that receive confident ob-ject detection scores, with some preference forimages with multiple object detections to obtaingood examples for testing discourse constraints.Baselines: We compare our ILP approacheswith two nontrivial baselines: the first is anHMM approach (comparable to Yang et al(2011)), which takes as input the same set ofcandidate phrases described in ?2, but for de-coding, we fix the ordering of phrases as [ NP?
VP ?
Region PP ?
Scene PP] and find thebest combination of phrases using the Viterbialgorithm.
We use the same rich set of pairwise364Hmm Hmm Ilp Ilpcognitive phrases: with w/o with w/o0.111 0.114 0.114 0.116Table 1: Automatic EvaluationILP selection rateILP V.S.
HMM (w/o cogn) 67.2%ILP V.S.
HMM (with cogn) 66.3%Table 2: Human Evaluation (without images)ILP selection rateILP V.S.
HMM (w/o cogn) 53.17%ILP V.S.
HMM (with cogn) 54.5%ILP V.S.
Retrieval 71.8%ILP V.S.
Human 16%Table 3: Human Evaluation (with images)phrase cohesion scores (?5.4) used for the ILPformulation, producing a strong baseline6.The second baseline is a recent Retrievalbased description method (Ordonez et al, 2011),that searches the large parallel corpus of im-ages and captions, and transfers a caption froma visually similar database image to the query.This again is a very strong baseline, as it ex-ploits the vast amount of image-caption data,and produces a description high in linguisticquality (since the captions were written by hu-man annotators).Automatic Evaluation: Automatically quan-tifying the quality of machine generated sen-tences is known to be difficult.
BLEU score(Papineni et al, 2002), despite its simplicityand limitations, has been one of the commonchoices for automatic evaluation of image de-scriptions (Farhadi et al, 2010; Kulkarni et al,2011; Li et al, 2011; Ordonez et al, 2011), asit correlates reasonably well with human evalu-ation (Belz and Reiter, 2006).Table 1 shows the the BLEU @1 against theoriginal caption of 1000 images.
We see that theILP improves the score over HMM consistently,with or without the use of cognitive phrases.6Including other long-distance scores in HMM decod-ing would make the problem NP-hard and require moresophisticated decoding, e.g.
ILP.Grammar Cognitive RelevanceHMM 3.40(?=.82) 3.40(?=.88) 2.25(?=1.37)ILP 3.56(?=.90) 3.60(?=.98) 2.37(?=1.49)Hum.
4.36(?=.79) 4.77(?=.66) 3.86(?=1.60)Table 4: Human Evaluation: Multi-Aspect Rating(?
is a standard deviation)Human Evaluation I ?
Ranking: We com-plement the automatic evaluation with Mechan-ical Turk evaluation.
In ranking evaluation, weask raters to choose a better caption betweentwo choices7.
We do this rating with and with-out showing the images, as summarized in Ta-ble 2 & 3.
When images are shown, raters evalu-ate content relevance as well as linguistic qualityof the captions.
Without images, raters evaluateonly linguistic quality.We found that raters generally prefer ILP gen-erated captions over HMM generated ones, twiceas much (67.2% ILP V.S.
32.8% HMM), if im-ages are not presented.
However the difference isless pronounced when images are shown.
Therecould be two possible reasons.
The first is thatwhen images are shown, the Turkers do not tryas hard to tell apart the subtle difference be-tween the two imperfect captions.
The secondis that the relative content relevance of ILP gen-erated captions is negating the superiority in lin-guistic quality.
We explore this question usingmulti-aspect rating, described below.Note that ILP generated captions are exceed-ingly (71.8 %) preferred over the Retrievalbaseline (Ordonez et al, 2011), despite the gen-erated captions tendency to be more prone togrammatical and cognitive errors than retrievedones.
This indicates that the generated captionsmust have substantially better content relevanceto the query image, supporting the direction ofthis research.
Finally, notice that as much as16% of the time, ILP generated captions are pre-ferred over the original human generated ones(examples in Figure 2).Human Evaluation II ?
Multi-Aspect Rat-ing: Table 4 presents rating in the 1?5 scale (5:perfect, 4: almost perfect, 3: 70?80% good, 2:7We present two captions in a randomized order.365Found MIT boygave me thisquizical expression.One of the most shirtin the wall of thehouse.Grammar ProblemsHere you can see abright red flower takennear our apartment inTorremolinos the CostaDel Sol.Content IrrelevanceThis is a shoulder bag witha blended rainbow effect.Cognitive AbsurdityHere you can see a crossby the frog in the sky.Figure 3: Examples with different aspects of prob-lems in the ILP generated captions.50?70% good, 1: totally bad) in three differentaspects: grammar, cognitive correctness,8 andrelevance.
We find that ILP improves over HMMin all aspects, however, the relevance score is no-ticeably worse than scores of two other criteria.It turns out human raters are generally morecritical against the relevance aspect, as can beseen in the ratings given to the original humangenerated captions.Discussion with Examples: Figure 1 showscontrastive examples of HMM vs ILP gener-ated captions.
Notice that HMM captionslook robotic, containing spurious and redundantphrases due to lack of discourse constraints, andoften discussing an awkward set of objects dueto lack of image-level content planning.
Alsonotice how image-level content planning under-pinned by language statistics helps correct someof the erroneous vision detections.
Figure 3shows some example mistakes in the ILP gen-erated captions.7 Related Work & DiscussionAlthough not directly focused on image descrip-tion generation, some previous work in the realmof summarization shares the similar problem ofcontent planning and surface realization.
There8E.g., ?A desk on top of a cat?
is grammatically cor-rect, but cognitively absurd.are subtle, but important differences however.First, sentence compression is hardly the goalof image description generation, as human writ-ten descriptions are not necessarily succinct.9Second, unlike summarization, we are not givenwith a set of coherent text snippet to begin with,and the level of noise coming from the visualrecognition errors is much higher than that ofstarting with clean text.
As a result, choosingan additional phrase in the image description ismuch riskier than it is in summarization.Some recent research proposed very elegantapproaches to summarization using ILP for col-lective content planning and/or surface realiza-tion (e.g., Martins and Smith (2009), Woodsendand Lapata (2010), Woodsend et al (2010)).Perhaps the most important difference in ourapproach is the use of negative weights in theobjective function to create the necessary ten-sion between selection (salience) and compatibil-ity, which makes it possible for ILP to generatevariable length descriptions, effectively correct-ing some of the erroneous vision detections.
Incontrast, all previous work operates with a pre-defined upper limit in length, hence the ILP wasformulated to include as many textual units aspossible modulo constraints.To conclude, we have presented a collectiveapproach to generating natural image descrip-tions.
Our approach is the first to systematicallyincorporate state of the art computer visionto retrieve visually relevant candidate phrases,then produce images descriptions that are sub-stantially more complex and human-like thanprevious attempts.Acknowledgments T. L. Berg is supportedin part by NSF CAREER award #1054133; A.C. Berg and Y. Choi are partially supported bythe Stony Brook University Office of the VicePresident for Research.
We thank K. Yam-aguchi, X. Han, M. Mitchell, H. Daume III, A.Goyal, K. Stratos, A. Mensch, J.
Dodge for datapre-processing and useful initial discussions.9On a related note, the notion of saliency also differsin that human written captions often digress on detailsthat might be tangential to the visible content of theimage.
E.g., ?This is a dress my mom made.
?, where thepicture does not show a woman making the dress.366ReferencesAhmet Aker and Robert Gaizauskas.
2010.
Gen-erating image descriptions using dependency rela-tional patterns.
In ACL.Anja Belz and Ehud Reiter.
2006.
Comparing au-tomatic and human evaluation of nlg systems.In EACL 2006, 11st Conference of the EuropeanChapter of the Association for Computational Lin-guistics, Proceedings of the Conference, April 3-7,2006, Trento, Italy.
The Association for ComputerLinguistics.Thorsten Brants and Alex Franz.
2006.
Web 1t 5-gram version 1.
In Linguistic Data Consortium.James Clarke and Mirella Lapata.
2006.
Constraint-based sentence compression: An integer program-ming approach.
In Proceedings of the COL-ING/ACL 2006 Main Conference Poster Sessions,pages 144?151, Sydney, Australia, July.
Associa-tion for Computational Linguistics.Navneet Dalal and Bill Triggs.
2005.
Histograms oforiented gradients for human detection.
In Pro-ceedings of the 2005 IEEE Computer Society Con-ference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recogni-tion (CVPR?05) - Volume 1 - Volume 01, CVPR?05, pages 886?893, Washington, DC, USA.
IEEEComputer Society.Haris Dindo and Daniele Zambuto.
2010.
A prob-abilistic approach to learning a visually groundedlanguage model through human-robot interaction.In IROS, pages 790?796.
IEEE.Ali Farhadi, Mohsen Hejrati, Mohammad AminSadeghi, Peter Young, Cyrus Rashtchian, JuliaHockenmaier, and David Forsyth.
2010.
Everypicture tells a story: generating sentences for im-ages.
In ECCV.Pedro F. Felzenszwalb, Ross B. Girshick, DavidMcAllester, and Deva Ramanan.
2010.
Objectdetection with discriminatively trained part basedmodels.
tPAMI, Sept.Yansong Feng and Mirella Lapata.
2010.
How manywords is a picture worth?
automatic caption gen-eration for news images.
In ACL.Fateh Muhammad Hafiz and Ian Tudor.
1989.
Ex-tensive reading and the development of languageskills.
ELT Journal, 43(1):4?13.Girish Kulkarni, Visruth Premraj, Sagnik Dhar,Siming Li, Yejin Choi, Alexander C Berg, andTamara L Berg.
2011.
Babytalk: Understand-ing and generating simple image descriptions.
InCVPR.Thomas K. Leung and Jitendra Malik.
1999.
Rec-ognizing surfaces using three-dimensional textons.In ICCV.Siming Li, Girish Kulkarni, Tamara L. Berg, Alexan-der C. Berg, and Yejin Choi.
2011.
Compos-ing simple image descriptions using web-scale n-grams.
In Proceedings of the Fifteenth Confer-ence on Computational Natural Language Learn-ing, pages 220?228, Portland, Oregon, USA, June.Association for Computational Linguistics.David G. Lowe.
2004.
Distinctive image featuresfrom scale-invariant keypoints.
Int.
J. Comput.Vision, 60:91?110, November.Andre Martins and Noah A. Smith.
2009.
Summa-rization with a joint model for sentence extractionand compression.
In Proceedings of the Workshopon Integer Linear Programming for Natural Lan-guage Processing, pages 1?9, Boulder, Colorado,June.
Association for Computational Linguistics.Derek D. Monner and James A. Reggia.
2011.
Sys-tematically grounding language through vision ina deep, recurrent neural network.
In Proceed-ings of the 4th international conference on Arti-ficial general intelligence, AGI?11, pages 112?121,Berlin, Heidelberg.
Springer-Verlag.Vicente Ordonez, Girish Kulkarni, and Tamara L.Berg.
2011.
Im2text: Describing images using 1million captioned photographs.
In Neural Infor-mation Processing Systems (NIPS).Kishore Papineni, Salim Roukos, Todd Ward, andWei jing Zhu.
2002.
Bleu: a method for automaticevaluation of machine translation.
In ACL.Slav Petrov and Dan Klein.
2007.
Improved infer-ence for unlexicalized parsing.
In HLT-NAACL.Slav Petrov, Leon Barrett, Romain Thibaux, andDan Klein.
2006.
Learning accurate, com-pact, and interpretable tree annotation.
In COL-ING/ACL.Deb K. Roy.
2002.
Learning visually-groundedwords and syntax for a scene description task.Computer Speech and Language, In review.Wai-King Tsang.
1996.
Comparing the effects ofreading and writing on writing performance.
Ap-plied Linguistics, 17(2):210?233.Kristian Woodsend and Mirella Lapata.
2010.
Au-tomatic generation of story highlights.
In Pro-ceedings of the 48th Annual Meeting of the Asso-ciation for Computational Linguistics, pages 565?574, Uppsala, Sweden, July.
Association for Com-putational Linguistics.Kristian Woodsend, Yansong Feng, and MirellaLapata.
2010.
Title generation with quasi-synchronous grammar.
In Proceedings of the 2010Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Lan-guage Processing, EMNLP ?10, pages 513?523,Stroudsburg, PA, USA.
Association for Compu-tational Linguistics.367Jianxiong Xiao, James Hays, Krista A. Ehinger,Aude Oliva, and Antonio Torralba.
2010.
Sundatabase: Large-scale scene recognition fromabbey to zoo.
In CVPR.Yezhou Yang, Ching Teo, Hal Daume III, and Yian-nis Aloimonos.
2011.
Corpus-guided sentence gen-eration of natural images.
In Proceedings of the2011 Conference on Empirical Methods in Nat-ural Language Processing, pages 444?454, Edin-burgh, Scotland, UK., July.
Association for Com-putational Linguistics.Benjamin Z. Yao, Xiong Yang, Liang Lin, Mun WaiLee, and Song-Chun Zhu.
2010.
I2t: Image pars-ing to text description.
Proc.
IEEE, 98(8).368
