Proceedings of the 50th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics, pages 208?212,Jeju, Republic of Korea, 8-14 July 2012. c?2012 Association for Computational LinguisticsCombining Textual Entailment and Argumentation Theoryfor Supporting Online Debates InteractionsElena Cabrio and Serena VillataINRIA2004 Route des Lucioles BP9306902 Sophia-Antipolis cedex, France.
{elena.cabrio, serena.villata}@inria.frAbstractBlogs and forums are widely adopted by on-line communities to debate about various is-sues.
However, a user that wants to cut in ona debate may experience some difficulties inextracting the current accepted positions, andcan be discouraged from interacting throughthese applications.
In our paper, we combinetextual entailment with argumentation theoryto automatically extract the arguments fromdebates and to evaluate their acceptability.1 IntroductionOnline debate platforms, like Debatepedia1, Twit-ter2 and many others, are becoming more and morepopular on the Web.
In such applications, users areasked to provide their own opinions about selectedissues.
However, it may happen that the debatesbecome rather complicated, with several argumentssupporting and contradicting each others.
Thus, itis difficult for potential participants to understandthe way the debate is going on, i.e., which are thecurrent accepted arguments in a debate.
In this pa-per, we propose to support participants of online de-bates with a framework combining Textual Entail-ment (TE) (Dagan et al, 2009) and abstract argu-mentation theory (Dung, 1995).
In particular, TEis adopted to extract the abstract arguments fromnatural language debates and to provide the rela-tions among these arguments; argumentation theoryis then used to compute the set of accepted argu-ments among those obtained from the TE module,1http://debatepedia.idebate.org2http://twitter.com/i.e., the arguments shared by the majority of the par-ticipants without being attacked by other acceptedarguments.
The originality of the proposed frame-work lies in the combination of two existing ap-proaches with the goal of supporting participants intheir interactions with online debates, by automat-ically detecting the arguments in natural languagetext, and identifying the accepted ones.
We evaluatethe feasibility of our combined approach on a set ofarguments extracted from a sample of Debatepedia.2 First step: textual entailmentTE was proposed as an applied framework to cap-ture major semantic inference needs across applica-tions in NLP, e.g.
(Romano et al, 2006; Barzilayand McKeown, 2005; Nielsen et al, 2009).
It is de-fined as a relation between two textual fragments,i.e., the text (T) and the hypothesis (H).
Entailmentholds if the meaning of H can be inferred from themeaning of T, as interpreted by a typical languageuser.
Consider the pairs in Example 1 and 2.Example 1.T1: Research shows that drivers speaking on a mobilephone have much slower reactions in braking tests thannon-users, and are worse even than if they have beendrinking.H:The use of cell-phones while driving is a public hazard.Example 2 (Continued).T2: Regulation could negate the safety benefits of havinga phone in the car.
When you?re stuck in traffic, callingto say you?ll be late can reduce stress and make you lessinclined to drive aggressively to make up lost time.H:The use of cell-phones while driving is a public hazard.208A system aimed at recognizing TE should detect anentailment relation between T1 and H (Example 1),and a contradiction between T2 and H (Example 2).As introduced before, our paper proposes anapproach to support the participants in forums ordebates to detect the accepted arguments amongthose expressed by the other participants on acertain topic.
As a first step, we need to (i) automat-ically recognize a participant?s opinion on a certaintopic as an argument, as well as to (ii) detect itsrelationship with the other arguments.
We thereforecast the described problem as a TE problem, wherethe T-H pair is a pair of arguments expressed bytwo different participants on a certain topic.
For in-stance, given the argument ?The use of cell-phoneswhile driving is a public hazard?
(that we consideras H as a starting point), participants can support itexpressing arguments from which H can be inferred(Example 1), or can contradict such argument withopinions against it (Example 2).
Since in debatesarguments come one after the other, we extractand compare them both with respect to the mainissue, and with the other participants?
arguments(when the new argument entails or contradicts oneof the arguments previously expressed by anotherparticipant).
For instance, given the same debate asbefore, a new argument T3 may be expressed by athird participant with the goal of contradicting T2(that becomes the new H (H1) in the pair), as shownin Example 3.Example 3 (Continued).T3: If one is late, there is little difference in apologizingwhile in their car over a cell phone and apologizing infront of their boss at the office.
So, they should have therestraint to drive at the speed limit, arriving late, andbeing willing to apologize then; an apologetic cell phonecall in a car to a boss shouldn?t be the cause of one beingable to then relax, slow-down, and drive the speed-limit.T2?
H1: Regulation could negate the safety benefits ofhaving a phone in the car.
When you?re stuck in [...]TE provides us with the techniques to detect boththe arguments in a debate, and the kind of relationunderlying each couple of arguments.
The TE sys-tem returns indeed a judgment (entailment or con-tradiction) on the arguments?
pairs, that are used asinput to build the argumentation framework, as de-scribed in the next Section.3 Second step: argumentation theoryStarting from a set of arguments and the attacks (i.e.,conflicts) among them, a (Dung, 1995)-style argu-mentation framework allows to detect which are theaccepted arguments.
Such arguments are consid-ered as believable by an external evaluator who hasa full knowledge of the argumentation framework,and they are determined through the acceptabilitysemantics (Dung, 1995).
Roughly, an argument isaccepted, if all the arguments attacking it are re-jected, and it is rejected if it has at least an argumentattacking it which is accepted.
An argument whichis not attacked at all is accepted.Definition 1.
An abstract argumentation framework (AF)is a pair ?A,??
where A is a set of arguments and?
?A?A is a binary relation called attack.Aim of the argumentation-based reasoning step isto provide the participant with a complete view onthe arguments proposed in the debate, and to showwhich are the accepted ones.
In our framework, wefirst map contradiction with the attack relation in ab-stract argumentation; second, the entailment relationis viewed as a support relation among abstract argu-ments.
The support relation (Cayrol and Lagasquie-Schiex, 2011) may be represented as: (1) a relationamong the arguments which does not affect their ac-ceptability, or (2) a relation among the argumentswhich leads to the introduction of additional attacks.Consider a support relation among two argu-ments, namely Ai and Aj .
If we choose (1), an at-tack towards Ai or Aj does not affect the acceptabil-ity of Aj or Ai, respectively.
If we choose (2), weintroduce additional attacks, and we have the follow-ing two options: [Type 1] Ai supports Aj then Akattacks Aj , and [Type 2] Ai supports Aj then Ak at-tacks Ai.
The attacks of type 1 are due to inference:Ai entails Aj means that Ai is more specific of Aj ,thus an attack towards Aj is an attack also towardsAi.
The attacks of type 2, instead, are more rare,but they may happen in debates: an attack towardsthe more specific argument Ai is an attack towardsthe more general argument Aj .
In Section 4, we willconsider only the introduction of attacks of type 1.For Examples 1, 2, and 3, the TE phase returnsthe following couples: T1 entails H, T2 attacks H,T3 attacks H1 (i.e.
T2).
The argumentation module209maps each element to its corresponding argument: H?
A1, T1?
A2, T2?
A3, and T3?
A4 .
The resultingAF (Figure 1) shows that the accepted argumentsare {A1, A2, A4}, meaning that the issue ?The use ofcell-phones while driving is a public hazard?
(A1) isconsidered as accepted.
Figure 2 visualizes the com-plete framework of the debate ?Use of cell phoneswhile driving?
on Debatepedia.
Accepted argumentsare double bordered.A1A4 A3A2Figure 1: The AF built from the results of the TE modulefor Example 1, 2 and 3, without introducing additionalattacks.
Plain arrows represent attacks, dashed arrowsrepresent supports.A1A4 A3A2A5 A6A7 A8A9A11A10Figure 2: The AF built from the results of the TE modulefor the entire debate.
Grey attacks are of type 1.
Forpicture clarity, we introduce type 1 attacks only fromA11.The same attacks hold from A10 and A3.4 Experimental settingWe experiment the combination of TE and argumen-tation theory to support the interaction of online de-bates participants on Debatepedia, an encyclopediaof pro and con arguments on critical issues.Data set.
To create the data set of arguments pairsto evaluate our task3, we randomly selected a set oftopics (reported in column Topics, Table 1) of De-batepedia debates, and for each topic we coupled allthe pros and cons arguments both with the main ar-gument (the issue of the debate, as in Example 13Data available for the RTE challenges are not suitable forour goal, since the pairs are extracted from news and are notlinked among each other (they do not report opinions on a cer-tain topic).
http://www.nist.gov/tac/2010/RTE/and 2) and/or with other arguments to which themost recent argument refers, e.g., Example 3.
UsingDebatepedia as case study provides us with alreadyannotated arguments (pro ?
entailment4, and cons?
contradiction), and casts our task as a yes/no en-tailment task.
As shown in Table 1, we collected 200T-H pairs, 100 used to train the TE system, and 100to test it (each data set is composed by 55 entailmentand 45 contradiction pairs).5 Test set pairs concerncompletely new topics, never seen by the system.TE system.
To detect which kind of relation un-derlies each couple of arguments, we used theEDITS system (Edit Distance Textual EntailmentSuite), an open-source software package for recog-nizing TE6 (Kouylekov and Negri, 2010).
EDITSimplements a distance-based framework which as-sumes that the probability of an entailment relationbetween a given T-H pair is inversely proportionalto the distance between T and H. Within this frame-work, the system implements different approachesto distance computation, providing both edit dis-tance algorithms and similarity algorithms.Evaluation.
To evaluate our combined approach,we carry out a two-step evaluation: we assess (i) theperformances of the TE system to correctly assignthe entailment/contradiction relations to the pairsof arguments in the Debatepedia data set; (ii) howmuch such performances impact on the goals of theargumentation module, i.e.
how much a wrong as-signment of a relation between two arguments leadsto an incorrect evaluation of the accepted arguments.For the first evaluation, we run the EDITS sys-tem off-the-shelf on the Debatepedia data set, ap-plying one of its basic configurations (i.e.
the dis-tance entailment engine combines cosine similarityas the core distance algorithm; distance calculatedon lemmas; stopword list included).
EDITS accu-racy on the training set is 0.69, on the test set 0.67(a baseline applying a Word Overlap algorithm ontokenized text is also considered, and obtains an ac-curacy of 0.61 on the training set and 0.62 on the testset).
Even using a basic configuration of EDITS, anda small data set (100 pairs for training) performances4Arguments ?supporting?
another argument without infer-ence are left for future work.5Available at http://bit.ly/debatepedia_ds6Version 3.0 available at http://edits.fbk.eu/210Training set Test setTopic #argum #pairs Topic #argum #pairsTOT.
yes no TOT.
yes noViolent games boost aggressiveness 16 15 8 7 Ground zero mosque 9 8 3 5China one-child policy 11 10 6 4 Mandatory military service 11 10 3 7Consider coca as a narcotic 15 14 7 7 No fly zone over Libya 11 10 6 4Child beauty contests 12 11 7 4 Airport security profiling 9 8 4 4Arming Libyan rebels 10 9 4 5 Solar energy 16 15 11 4Random alcohol breath tests 8 7 4 3 Natural gas vehicles 12 11 5 6Osama death photo 11 10 5 5 Use of cell phones while driving 11 10 5 5Privatizing social security 11 10 5 5 Marijuana legalization 17 16 10 6Internet access as a right 15 14 9 5 Gay marriage as a right 7 6 4 2Vegetarianism 7 6 4 2TOTAL 109 100 55 45 TOTAL 110 100 55 45Table 1: The Debatepedia data set.on Debatepedia test set are promising, and in linewith performances of TE systems on RTE data sets.As a second step of the evaluation, we considerthe impact of EDITS performances on arguments ac-ceptability, i.e., how much a wrong assignment of arelation to a pair of arguments affects the computa-tion of the set of accepted arguments.
We identifythe accepted arguments both in the correct AF ofeach Debatepedia debate of the data set (the gold-standard, where relations are correctly assigned),and on the AF generated basing on the relationsassigned by EDITS.
Our combined approach ob-tained the following performances: precision 0.74,recall 0.76, accuracy 0.75, meaning that the TE sys-tem mistakes in relation assignment propagate in theAF , but results are still satisfying and foster furtherresearch in this direction.5 Related workDebateGraph7 is an online system for debates, butit is not grounded on argument theory to decidethe accepted arguments.
Chasnevar and Maguit-man?s (2004) system provides recommendations onlanguage patterns using indices computed from Webcorpora and defeasible argumentation.
No NLP isused for automatic arguments detection.
Careniniand Moore (2006) present a computational frame-work to generate evaluative arguments.
Based onusers?
preferences, arguments are produced follow-ing argumentation guidelines to structure evaluativearguments.
Then, NL Generation techniques are ap-plied to return the argument in natural language.
Un-like them, we do not create the arguments, but we7http://debategraph.orguse TE to detect them in texts, and we use Dung?smodel to identify the accepted ones.
Wyner and vanEngers (2010) present a policy making support toolbased on forums, where NLP and argumentation arecoupled to provide well structured statements.
Be-side the goal, several points distinguish our proposalfrom this one: (i) the user is asked to write the in-put text using Attempt to Controlled English, witha restricted grammar and vocabulary, while we donot support the participant in writing the text, butwe automatically detect the arguments (no languagerestriction); (ii) a mode indicates the relations be-tween the statements, while we infer them using TE;(iii) no evaluation of their framework is provided.6 Future challengesSeveral research lines are considered to improve theproposed framework: first, the use of NLP to de-tect the arguments from text will make argumenta-tion theory applicable to reason in real scenarios.
Weplan to use the TE module to reason on the introduc-tion of the support relation in abstract argumentationtheory.
We plan to extend our model by consider-ing also other kinds of relationships among the ar-guments.
Moreover, given the promising results weobtained, we plan to extend the experimentation set-ting both increasing the size of the Debatepedia dataset, and to improve the TE system performances toapply our combined approach in other real applica-tions (considering for instance the presence of un-related arguments, e.g.
texts that do not entail norcontradict).211ReferencesBarzilay R. and McKeown K.R.
2005.
Sentence fu-sion for multidocument news summarization.
Compu-tational Linguistics, 31(3).
pp.
297-327.Carenini G. and Moore J.D.
2006.
Generating and eval-uating evaluative arguments.
Artificial Intelligence,volume 170, n. 11. pp.
925-952.Cayrol C. and Lagasquie-Schiex M.C.
2011.
Bipolarityin Argumentation Graphs: Towards a Better Under-standing.
Proceedings of SUM 2011. pp.137-148Chesn?evar C.I.
and Maguitman A.G. 2004.
An Argumen-tative Approach to Assessing Natural Language Us-age based on the Web Corpus.
Proceedings of ECAI.pp.581-585.Dagan I. and Dolan B. and Magnini B. and Roth D.2009.
Recognizing textual entailment: Rational, eval-uation and approaches.
Natural Language Engineer-ing (JNLE), Special Issue 04, volume 15. pp.
i-xvii.Cambridge University Press.Dung P.M. 1995.
On the Acceptability of Argumentsand its Fundamental Role in Nonmonotonic Reason-ing, Logic Programming and n-Person Games.
Artifi-cial Intelligence, volume 77, n.2.
pp.321-358.Kouylekov M. and Negri M. 2010.
An Open-SourcePackage for Recognizing Textual Entailment.
Proceed-ings of ACL 2010 System Demonstrations.
pp.42-47.Nielsen R.D.
and Ward W. and Martin J.H.
2009.
Recog-nizing entailment in intelligent tutoring systems.
TheJournal of Natural Language Engineering, (JNLE),volume 15. pp.
479-501.
Cambridge University Press.Romano L. and Kouylekov M. O. and Szpektor I. andDagan I. and Lavelli A.
2006.
Investigating a GenericParaphrase-Based Approach for Relation Extraction.Proceedings of EACL 2006. pp.
409-416.Wyner A. and van Engers T. 2010.
A frameworkfor enriched, controlled on-line discussion forums fore-government policy-making.
Proceedings of eGov2010.212
