Proceedings of the 50th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics, pages 373?377,Jeju, Republic of Korea, 8-14 July 2012. c?2012 Association for Computational LinguisticsHow Are Spelling Errors Generated and Corrected?
A Study of Correctedand Uncorrected Spelling Errors Using Keystroke LogsYukino BabaThe University of Tokyoyukino.baba@gmail.comHisami SuzukiMicrosoft Researchhisamis@microsoft.comAbstractThis paper presents a comparative study ofspelling errors that are corrected as you type,vs.
those that remain uncorrected.
First,we generate naturally occurring online errorcorrection data by logging users?
keystrokes,and by automatically deriving pre- and post-correction strings from them.
We then per-form an analysis of this data against the errorsthat remain in the final text as well as acrosslanguages.
Our analysis shows a clear distinc-tion between the types of errors that are gen-erated and those that remain uncorrected, aswell as across languages.1 IntroductionWhen we type text using a keyboard, we generatemany spelling errors, both typographical (caused bythe keyboard layout and hand/finger movement) andcognitive (caused by phonetic or orthographic sim-ilarity) (Kukich, 1992).
When the errors are caughtduring typing, they are corrected on the fly, but un-noticed errors will persist in the final text.
Previ-ous research on spelling correction has focused onthe latter type (which we call uncorrected errors),presumably because the errors that are corrected onthe spot (referred to here as corrected errors) arenot recoded in the form of a text.
However, study-ing corrected errors is important for at least threereasons.
First, such data encapsulates the spellingmistake and correction by the author, in contrastto the case of uncorrected errors in which the in-tended correction is typically assigned by a thirdperson (an annotator), or by an automatic method(Whitelaw et al, 2009; Aramaki et al, 2010)1.
Sec-ondly, data on corrected errors will enable us to builda spelling correction application that targets correc-tion on the fly, which directly reduces the number ofkeystrokes in typing.
This is crucial for languagesthat use transliteration-based text input methods,such as Chinese and Japanese, where a spelling errorin the input Roman keystroke sequence will prevent1Using web search query logs is one notable exception,which only targets spelling errors in search queries (Gao et al,2010)Keystrokemissspell misspellPre-correction strings Post-correction stringsm - i - s - s - s - p -  BACKSPACE  -  BACKSPACE  - p - e - l - lFigure 1: Example of keystrokethe correct candidate words from appearing in thelist of candidates in their native scripts, thereby pre-venting them from being entered altogether.
Finally,we can collect a large amount of spelling errors andtheir corrections by logging keystrokes and extract-ing the pre- and post-correction strings from them.By learning the characteristics of corrected and un-corrected errors, we can expect to use the data forimproving the correction of the errors that persistedin the final text as well.In this paper, we collect naturally occurringspelling error data that are corrected by the usersonline from keystroke logs, through the crowd-sourcing infrastructure of Amazon?s MechanicalTurk (MTurk).
As detailed in Section 3, we dis-play images to the worker of MTurk, and collectthe descriptions of these images, while logging theirkeystrokes including the usage of backspace keys,via a crowd-based text input service.
We collectedlogs for two typologically different languages, En-glish and Japanese.
An example of a log alongwith the extracted pre- and post-correction stringsis shown in Figure 1.
We then performed two com-parative analyses: corrected vs. uncorrected errorsin English (Section 4.3), and English vs. Japanesecorrected errors (Section 4.4).
Finally, we remarkon an additional cause of spelling errors observed inall the data we analyzed (Section 4.5).2 Related WorkStudies on spelling error generation mechanisms arefound in earlier work such as Cooper (1983).
Inparticular, Grudin (1983) offers a detailed study ofthe errors generated in the transcription typing sce-nario, where the subjects are asked to transcribe atext without correcting the errors they make.
In amore recent work, Aramaki et al (2010) automati-cally extracted error-correction candidate pairs fromTwitter data based on the assumption that these pairs373fall within a small edit distance, and that the errorsare not in the dictionary and substantially less fre-quent than the correctly spelled counterpart.
Theythen studied the effect of five factors that cause er-rors by building a classifier that uses the features as-sociated with these classes and running ablation ex-periments.
They claim that finger movements causethe spelling errors to be generated, but the uncor-rected errors are characterized by visual factors suchas the visual similarity of confused letters.
Their ex-periments however target only the persisted errors,and their claim is not based on the comparison ofgenerated and persisted errors.Outside of English, Zheng et al (2011) analyzedthe keystroke log of a commercial text input systemfor Simplified Chinese, and compared the error pat-terns in Chinese with those in English.
Their use ofthe keystroke log is different from ours in that theydid not directly log the input in pinyin (RomanizedChinese by which native characters are input), butthe input pinyin sequences are recovered from theChinese words in the native script (hanzi) after thecharacter conversion has already applied.3 Keystroke Data CollectionAmazon?s Mechanical Turk (MTurk) is a web ser-vice that enables crowdsourcing of tasks that are dif-ficult for computers to solve, and has become an im-portant infrastructure for gathering data and annota-tion for NLP research in recent years (Snow et al2008).
To the extent of our knowledge, our workis the first to use this infrastructure to gather userkeystroke data.3.1 Task designIn order to collect naturally occurring keystrokes,we have designed two types of tasks, both of whichconsist of writing something about images.
In onetask type, we asked the workers to write a shortdescription of images (image description task); inthe other, the workers were presented with im-ages of a person or an animal, and were asked toguess and type what she/he was saying (let-them-talk task).
Using images as triggers for typing keepsthe underlying motivation of keystroke collectionhidden from the workers, simultaneously allowinglanguage-independent data collection.
For the im-age triggers, we used photos from the Flickr?s YourBest Shot 2009/2010 groups .
Examples of the tasksand collected text are given in Figure 2.??????????????????????
????????????
?Image Description Task Let-them-talk Task?oh mummy.
please dont take a clip.
i am naked and i feel shy.
at least give me a towel.
?En ?A flock of penguins waddle towards two trees over snow covered ground.
?JaEnJaFigure 2: Examples of tasks and collected text (Translated text:?A flock of penguines are marching in the snow.?
and ?Mummy,my feet can?t touch the bottom.?
)3.2 Task interfaceFor logging the keystrokes including the use ofbackspaces, we designed an original interface for thetext boxes in the MTurk task.
In order to simplifythe interpretation of the log, we disabled the cursormovements and text highlighting via a mouse or thearrow keys in the text box; the workers are thereforeforced to use the backspace key to make corrections.In Japanese, many commercially available text in-put methods (IMEs) have an auto-complete featurewhich prevents us from collecting all keystrokes forinputting a word.
We therefore used an in-houseIME that has disabled this feature to collect logs.This IME is hosted as a web service, and keystrokelogs are also collected through the service.
For En-glish, we used the service for log collection only.4 Keystroke Log Analysis4.1 DataWe used both keystroke-derived and previouslyavailable error data for our analysis.Keystroke-derived error pairs for English andJapanese (en keystroke, ja keystroke): from theraw keystroke logs collected using the method de-scribed in Section 3, we extracted only those wordsthat included a use of the backspace key.
We thenrecovered the strings before and after correction bythe following steps (Cf.
Figure 1):?
To recover the post-correction string, wedeleted the same number of characters preced-ing a sequence of backspace keys.?
To recover the pre-correction string, we com-pared the prefix of the backspace usage(misssp in Figure 1) with the substringsafter error correction (miss, missp, ?
?
?
,misspell), and considered that the prefixwas spell-corrected into the substring which isthe longest and with the smallest edit distance374(in this case, misssp is an error for missp,so the pre-correction string is missspell).We then lower-cased the pairs and extracted onlythose within the edit distance of 2.
The resulting datawhich we used for our analysis consists of 44,104pairs in English and 4,808 pairs in Japanese2.Common English errors (en common): follow-ing previous work (Zheng et al, 2011), we ob-tained word pairs from Wikipedia3 and SpellGood4.We lower-cased the entries from these sources, re-moved the duplicates and the pairs that includednon-Roman alphabet characters, and extracted onlythose pairs within the edit distance of 2.
This left uswith 10,608 pairs.4.2 Factors that affect errorsSpelling errors have traditionally been classified intofour descriptive types: Deletion, Insertion, Substitu-tion and Transposition (Damerau, 1964).
For eachof these types, we investigated the potential causesof error generation and correction, following previ-ous work (Aramaki et al, 2010; Zheng et al, 2011).Physical factors: (1) motor control of hands and fin-gers; (2) distance between the keys; Visual factors:(3) visual similarity of characters; (4) position ina word; (5) same character repetition; Phonologi-cal factors: (6) phonological similarity of charac-ters/words.In what follows, our discussion is based on thefrequency ratio of particular error types, where thefrequency ratio refers to the number of cases inspelling errors divided by the total number of casesin all data.
For example, the frequency ratio of con-sonant deletion is calculated by dividing the numberof missing consonants in errors by the total numberof consonants.4.3 Corrected vs. uncorrected errors in EnglishIn this subsection, we compare corrected and uncor-rected errors of English, trying to uncover what fac-tors facilitate the error correction.Error types (Figure 3) Errors in en keystroke aredominated by Substitution, while Deletion errors arethe most common in en common, indicating that2The data is available for research purposes under http://research.microsoft.com/research/downloads/details/4eb8d4a0-9c4e-4891-8846-7437d9dbd869/details.aspx3http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia:Lists of common misspellings/For machines4http://www.spellgood.net/sitemap.htmlja_keystrokeen_keystrokeen_commonDeletionInsertion SubstitutionTranspositionRatio (%)0 20 40 60 80 100Figure 3: Ratios of error typesSubstitionSimilarityFreq.0.000SimilarityFreq.0.000SimilarityFreq.0.0000.30 0.900.30 0.900.30 0.90en_keystroke ja_keystrokeen_commonFigure 4: Visual similaritiesof characters in substitutionerrors0 20 40 60 80 100Deletion0?base position / (word length?1) (%)Density0 20 40 60 80 100Insertion0?base position / (word length?1) (%)Density0 20 40 60 80 100Substitution0?base position / (word length?1) (%)Density0 20 40 60 80 100Transposition0?base position / (word length?1) (%)Densityen_keystroke ja_keystrokeen_commonFigure 5: Positions of errors within wordsSubstitution mistakes are easy to catch, while Dele-tion mistakes tend to escape our attention.
Zhenget al (2011) reports that their pinyin correction er-rors are dominated by Deletion, which suggests thattheir log does in fact reflect the characteristics of cor-rected errors.Position of error within a word (Figure 5) Inen keystroke, Deletion errors at the word-initial po-sition are the most common, while Insertion andSubstitution errors tend to occur both at the be-ginning and the end of a word.
In contrast, inen common, all error types are more prone to oc-cur word-medially.
This means that errors at wordedges are corrected more often than the word-internal errors, which can be attributed to cognitiveeffect known as the bathtub effect (Aitchison, 1994),which states that we memorize words at the periph-ery most effectively in English.Effect of character repetition (Figure 6) Dele-tion errors where characters are repeated, as intomorow?tomorrow, is observed significantlymore frequently than in a non-repeating context inen common, but no such difference is observed inen keystroke, showing that visually conspicuous er-rors tend to be corrected.Visual similarity in Substitution errors (Figure4) We computed the visual similarity of charactersby2?
(the area of overlap between character A andB)/(area of character A+area of character B) follow-375Not Repeated / RepeatedDeletionRatioof Freq.0.00.40.8en_keystroke ja_keystrokeen_commonFigure 6: Effect of characterrepetition in Deletion0.00.40.8en_keystroke ja_keystrokeen_commonDiff=2 / Diff=1TranspositionRatioof Freq.Figure 7: Difference of posi-tions within words in Trans-positionVowel / ConsonantInsertionInserted Character0.00.40.8C?>C C?>V V?>C V?>VSubstitutionSubstituted Character ?> Correct Characteren_keystroke ja_keystrokeen_commonFreq./max(Freq.
)0.00.40.8Ratio of Freq.Figure 8: Consonants/vowels in Insertion and Substitutioning Aramaki et al (2010)5.
Figure 4 shows that inen common, Substitution errors of visually similarcharacters (e.g., yoqa?yoga) are in fact verycommon, while in en keystroke, no such tendencyis observed.Phonological similarity in Substitution errors(Figure 8) In en keystroke, there is no notabledifference in consonant-to-consonant (C?C) andvowel-to-vowel (V?V) errors, but in en common,V?V errors are overwhelmingly more com-mon, suggesting that C?C can easily be no-ticed (e.g., eazy?easy) while V?V errors (e.g.,visable?visible) are not.
This tendency isconsistent with the previous work on the cognitivedistinction between consonants and vowels in En-glish: consonants carry more lexical informationthan vowels (Nespor et al, 2003), a claim alsosupported by distributional evidence (Tanaka-Ishii,2008).
It may also be attributed to the fact that En-glish vowel quality is not always reflected by the on-thography in the straightforward maner.Summarizing, we have observed both visual andphonological factors affect the correction of errors.Aramaki et al (2010)?s experiments did not showthat C/V distinction affect the errors, while our datashows that it does in the correction of errors.4.4 Errors in English vs. JapaneseFrom Figure 3, we can see that the general errorpattern is very similar between en keystroke andja keystroke.
Looking into the details, we discov-ered some characteristic errors in Japanese, whichare phonologically and orthographically motivated.Syllable-based transposition errors (Figure 7)When comparing the transposition errors by their5We calculated the area using the Courier New font whichwe used in our task interface.Appeared Before To AppearSubstitutionSubstituted CharacterFreq./ max(Freq.
)0.00.40.8Not Appeared Before Not to Appearen_keystroke ja_keystrokeen_commonFigure 9: Look-ahead and Look-behind in Substitutiondistance, 1 being a transposition of adjacent char-acters and 2 a transposition skipping a character, theinstances in en keystroke are mostly of distance of1, while in ja keystroke, the distance of 2 also occurscommonly (e.g., kotoro?tokoro).
This is inter-esting, because the Japanese writing system calledkana is a syllabary system, and our data suggests thatusers may be typing a kana character (typically CV)as a unit.
Furthermore, 73% of these errors sharethe vowel of the transposed syllables, which may beserving as a strong condition for this type of error.Errors in consonants/vowels (Figure 8) Errorsin ja keystroke are characterized by a smaller ra-tio of insertion errors of vowels relative to conso-nants, and by a relatively smaller ratio of V?V sub-stitution errors.
Both point to the relative robust-ness of inputting vowels as opposed to consonantsin Japanese.
Unlike English, Japanese only has fivevowels whose pronunciations are transparently car-ried by the orthography; they are therefore expectedto be less prone to cognitive errors.4.5 Look-ahead and look-behind errorsIn Substitution errors for all data we analyzed, sub-stituting for the character that appeared before, orare to appear in the word was common (Figure9).
In particular, in en keystroke and ja keystroke,look-ahead errors are much more common than non-look-ahead errors.
Grudin (1983) reports casesof permutation (e.g., gib?big) but our data in-cludes non-permutation look-ahead errors such aspuclic?public and otigaga?otibaga.5 ConclusionWe have presented our collection methodology andanalysis of error correction logs across error types(corrected vs. uncorrected) and languages (Englishand Japanese).
Our next step is to utilize the col-lected data and analysis results to build online andoffline spelling correction models.AcknowledgmentsThis work was conducted during the internship ofthe first author at Microsoft Research.
We are grate-ful to the colleagues for their help and feedback inconducting this research.376ReferencesAitchison, J.
1994.
Words in the Mind.
Blackwell.Aramaki, E., R. Uno and M. Oka.
2010.
TYPO Writer:?????????????????
(TYPOWriter: how do humans make typos?).
In Proceedingsof the 16th Annual Meeting of the Natural LanguageSociety (in Japanese).Cooper, W. E.
(ed.)
1983.
Cognitive Aspects of SkilledTypewriting.
Springer-Verlag.Damerau, F. 1964.
A technique for computer detectionand correction of spelling errors.
Communications ofthe ACM 7(3): 659-664.Gao, J., X. Li, D. Micol, C. Quirk and X.
Sun.
2010.A large scale ranker-based system for search queryspelling correction.
In Proceedings of COLING.Grudin, J. T. 1983.
Error patterns in novice and skilledtranscription typing.
In Cooper, W.E.
(ed.
), CognitiveAspects of Skilled Typewriting.
Springer-Verlag.Kukich, K. 1992.
Techniques for automatically correct-ing words in text.
In ACM Computing Surveys, 24(4).Nespor, M., M. Pen?a, and J. Mehler.
2003.
On the differ-ent roles of vowels and consonants in speech process-ing and language acquisition.
Lingue e Linguaggio,pp.
221?247.Snow, R., B. O?Connor, D. Jurafsky, and A. Ng.
2008.Cheap and fast ?
but is it good?
: evaluating non-expertannotations for natural language tasks.
In Proceedingsof EMNLP.Tanaka-Ishii, K. 2008.
?????????????
(On the uneven distribution of information in words).In Proceedings of the 14th Annual Meeting of the Nat-ural Language Society (in Japanese).Whitelaw, Casey, Ben Hutchinson, Grace Y. Chung, andGerard Ellis.
2009.
Using the web for language in-dependent spellchecking and autocorrection.
In Pro-ceedings of ACL.Zheng, Y., L. Xie, Z. Liu, M. Sun.
Y. Zhang and L. Ru2011.
Why press backspace?
Understanding user in-put behaviors in Chinese pinyin input method.
In Pro-ceedings of ACL377
