Proceedings of the 50th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics, pages 69?77,Jeju, Republic of Korea, 8-14 July 2012. c?2012 Association for Computational LinguisticsPDTB-style Discourse Annotation of Chinese TextYuping ZhouComputer Science DepartmentBrandeis UniversityWaltham, MA 02452yzhou@brandeis.eduNianwen XueComputer Science DepartmentBrandeis UniversityWaltham, MA 02452xuen@brandeis.eduAbstractWe describe a discourse annotation schemefor Chinese and report on the preliminary re-sults.
Our scheme, inspired by the Penn Dis-course TreeBank (PDTB), adopts the lexicallygrounded approach; at the same time, it makesadaptations based on the linguistic and statisti-cal characteristics of Chinese text.
Annotationresults show that these adaptations work wellin practice.
Our scheme, taken together withother PDTB-style schemes (e.g.
for English,Turkish, Hindi, and Czech), affords a broaderperspective on how the generalized lexicallygrounded approach can flesh itself out in thecontext of cross-linguistic annotation of dis-course relations.1 IntroductionIn the realm of discourse annotation, the Penn Dis-course TreeBank (PDTB) (Prasad et al, 2008) sep-arates itself by adopting a lexically grounded ap-proach: Discourse relations are lexically anchoredby discourse connectives (e.g., because, but, there-fore), which are viewed as predicates that take ab-stract objects such as propositions, events and statesas their arguments.
In the absence of explicit dis-course connectives, the PDTB asks the annotator tofill in a discourse connective that best describes thediscourse relation between these two sentences, in-stead of selecting from an inventory of predefineddiscourse relations.
By keeping the discourse an-notation lexically grounded even in the case of im-plicit discourse relations, the PDTB appeals to theannotator?s judgment at an intuitive level.
This is incontrast with an approach in which the set of dis-course relations are pre-determined by linguistic ex-perts and the role of the annotator is just to selectfrom those choices (Mann and Thompson, 1988;Carlson et al, 2003).
This lexically grounded ap-proach led to consistent and reliable discourse anno-tation, a feat that is generally hard to achieve for dis-course annotation.
The PDTB team reported inter-annotator agreement in the lower 90% for explicitdiscourse relations (Miltsakaki et al, 2004).In this paper we describe a discourse annota-tion scheme for Chinese that adopts this lexicallygrounded approach while making adaptations whenwarranted by the linguistic and statistical propertiesof Chinese text.
This scheme is shown to be practi-cal and effective in the annotation experiment.The rest of the paper is organized as follows: InSection 2, we review the key aspects of the PDTBannotation scheme under discussion in this paper.
InSection 3, we first show that some key features ofChinese make adaptations necessary in Section 3.1,and then in Section 3.2, we present our systematicadaptations that follow from the differences outlinedin Section 3.1.
In Section 4, we present the prelim-inary annotation results we have so far.
And finallyin Section 5, we conclude the paper.2 The PDTB annotation schemeAs mentioned in the introduction, discourse relationis viewed as a predication with two arguments in theframework of the PDTB.
To characterize the pred-ication, the PDTB annotates its argument structureand sense.
Two types of discourse relation are dis-tinguished in the annotation: explicit and implicit.69Although their annotation is carried out separately, itconforms to the same paradigm of a discourse con-nective with two arguments.
In what follows, wehighlight the key points that will be under discussionin the following sections.
To get a more compre-hensive and detailed picture of the PDTB scheme,see the PDTB 2.0 annotation manual (Prasad et al,2007).2.1 Annotation of explicit discourse relationsExplicit discourse relations are those anchored byexplicit discourse connectives in text.
Explicit con-nectives are drawn from three grammatical classes:?
Subordinating conjunctions: e.g., because,when, since, although;?
Coordinating conjunctions: e.g., and, or, nor;?
Discourse adverbials: e.g., however, other-wise, then, as a result, for example.Not all uses of these lexical items are considered tofunction as a discourse connective.
For example,coordinating conjunctions appearing in VP coordi-nations, such as ?and?
in (1), are not annotated asdiscourse connectives.
(1) More common chrysotile fibers are curly andare more easily rejected by the body, Dr. Moss-man explained.The text spans of the two arguments of a discourseconnective are marked up.
The two arguments, Arg1and Arg2, are defined based on the physical locationof the connective: Arg2 is the argument expressedby the clause syntactically bound to the connective,and Arg1 is the other argument.
There are no restric-tions on how many clauses can be included in thetext span for an argument other than the MinimalityPrinciple: Only as many clauses and/or sentencesshould be included in an argument selection as areminimally required and sufficient for the interpreta-tion of the relation.2.2 Annotation of implicit discourse relationsIn the case of implicit discourse relations, annotatorsare asked to insert a discourse connective that bestconveys the implicit relation; when no such connec-tive expression is appropriate, the implicit relationis further distinguished as the following three sub-types:?
AltLex: when insertion of a connective leadsto redundancy due to the presence of an alter-natively lexicalized expression, as in (2).?
EntRel: when the only relation between thetwo arguments is that they describe different as-pects of the same entity, as in (3).?
NoRel: when neither a lexicalized discourse re-lation nor entity-based coherence is present.
Itis to be noted that at least some of the ?NoRel?cases are due to the adjacency constraint (seebelow for more detail).
(2) And she further stunned her listeners by re-vealing her secret garden design method: [Arg1Commissioning a friend to spend five or sixthousand dollars .
.
.
on books that I ultimatelycut up.]
[Arg2 AltLex After that, the layout hadbeen easy.
(3) [Arg1 Hale Milgrim, 41 years old, senior vicepresident, marketing at Elecktra EntertainmentInc., was named president of Capitol RecordsInc., a unit of this entertainment concern].
[Arg2 EntRel Mr. Milgrim succeeds DavidBerman, who resigned last month].There are restrictions on what kinds of implicitrelations are subjected to annotation, presented be-low.
These restrictions do not have counterparts inexplicit relation annotation.?
Implicit relations between adjacent clauses inthe same sentence not separated by a semi-colon are not annotated, even though the rela-tion may very well be definable.
A case in pointis presented in (4) below, involving an intra-sentential comma-separated relation between amain clause and a free adjunct.?
Implicit relations between adjacent sentencesacross a paragraph boundary are not annotated.?
The adjacency constraint: At least some partof the spans selected for Arg1 and Arg2 mustbelong to the pair of adjacent sentences initiallyidentified for annotation.
(4) [MC The market for export financing was liber-alized in the mid-1980s], [FA forcing the bankto face competition].702.3 Annotation of sensesDiscourse connectives, whether originally present inthe data in the case of explicit relations, or filled inby annotators in the case of implicit relations, alongwith text spans marked as ?AltLex?, are annotatedwith respect to their senses.
There are three levels inthe sense hierarchy:?
Class: There are four major semantic classes:TEMPORAL, CONTINGENCY, COMPARISON,and EXPANSION;?
Type: A second level of types is further de-fined for each semantic class.
For example,under the class CONTINGENCY, there are twotypes: ?Cause?
(relating two situations in a di-rect cause-effect relation) and ?Condition?
(re-lating a hypothetical situation with its (possi-ble) consequences);1?
Subtype: A third level of subtypes is definedfor some, but not all, types.
For instance, underthe type ?CONTINGENCY:Cause?, there are twosubtypes: ?reason?
(for cases like because andsince) and ?result?
(for cases like so and as aresult).It is worth noting that a type of implicit relation,namely those labeled as ?EntRel?, is not part of thesense hierarchy since it has no explicit counterpart.3 Adapted scheme for Chinese3.1 Key characteristics of Chinese textDespite similarities in discourse features betweenChinese and English (Xue, 2005), there are differ-ences that have a significant impact on how dis-course relations could be best annotated.
These dif-ferences can be illustrated with (5):(5) ?
?according to reports?,[AO1 ??Dongguan?
?Customs?in total??accept??company??contract??record????
?8400 plus?
]CLASS?[AO2,?compare??pilot?before?slight?EXIST??
]increase?,[AO3?
?company1There is another dimension to this level, i.e.
literal or prag-matic use.
If this dimension is taken into account, there could besaid to be four types: ?Cause?, ?Pragmatic Cause?, ?Condition?,and ?Pragmatic Condition?.
For details, see Prasad et al (2007).??respond/response??
]well/good?,[AO4??generally??acknowledge??
]accept/acceptance?.
?According to reports, [AO1 Dongguan DistrictCustoms accepted more than 8400 records of com-pany contracts], [AO2 a slight increase from beforethe pilot].
[AO3 Companies responded well], [AO4generally acknowledging acceptance].
?This sentence reports on how a pilot programworked in Dongguan City.
Because all that is saidis about the pilot program, it is perfectly natural toinclude it all in a single sentence in Chinese.
Intu-itively though, there are two different aspects of howthe pilot program worked: the number of recordsand the response from the affected companies.
Toreport the same facts in English, it is more naturalto break them down into two sentences or two semi-colon-separated clauses, but in Chinese, not only arethey merely separated by comma, but also there is noconnective relating them.This difference in writing style necessitates re-thinking of the annotation scheme.
If we apply thePDTB scheme to the English translation, regardlessof whether the two pieces of facts are expressed intwo sentences or two semi-colon-separated clauses,at least one discourse relation will be annotated, re-lating these two text units.
In contrast, if we applythe same scheme to the Chinese sentence, no dis-course relation will be picked out because this isjust one comma-separated sentence with no explicitdiscourse connectives in it.
In other words, the dis-course relation within the Chinese sentence, whichwould be captured in its English counterpart follow-ing the PDTB procedure, would be lost when anno-tating Chinese.
Such loss is not a sporadic occur-rence but rather a very prevalent one since it is asso-ciated with the customary writing style of Chinese.To ensure a reasonable level of coverage, we need toconsider comma-delimited intra-sentential implicitrelations when annotating Chinese text.There are some complications associated with thismove.
One of them is that it introduces into dis-course annotation considerable ambiguity associ-ated with the comma.
For example, the first in-stance of comma in (5), immediately following ????
(?according to reports?
), clearly does not indi-cate a discourse relation, so it needs to be spelt out in71the guidelines how to exclude such cases of commaas discourse relation indicators.
We think, however,that disambiguating the commas in Chinese text isvaluable in its own right and is a necessary step inannotating discourse relations.Another complication is that some comma-separated chunks are ambiguous as to whether theyshould be considered potential arguments in a dis-course relation.
The chunks marked AO2 and AO4in (5) are examples of such cases.
They, judgingfrom their English translation, may seem clear casesof free adjuncts in PDTB terms (Prasad et al, 2007),but there is no justification for treating them as suchin Chinese.
The lack of justification comes from atleast three features of Chinese:?
Certain words, for instance, ????
(?re-spond/response?
), ????
(?well/good?)
and????
(?accept/acceptance?
), are ambiguouswith respect to their POS, and when they com-bine, the resulting sentence may have morethan one syntactic analysis.
For example, AO3may be literally translated as ?Companies re-sponded well?
or ?Companies?
response wasgood?.?
There are no inflectional clues to differenti-ate free adjuncts and main clauses.
For ex-ample, one can be reasonably certain that ????
(?acknowledge?)
functions as a verb in (5),however, there is no indication whether it isin the form corresponding to ?acknowledging?or ?acknowledged?
in English.
Or putting itdifferently, whether one wants to express inChinese the meaning corresponding to the -ingform or the tensed form in English, the sameform ????
could apply.?
Both subject and object can be dropped in Chi-nese, and they often are when they are infer-able from the context.
For example, in the two-sentence sequence below, the subject of (7) isdropped since it is clearly the same as the sub-ject of the previous sentence in (6) .
(6) [S1recent?five?years?since?,?Shanghai??through??actively??from?other?province?city?procure??export??supply??,?organize??China??East??Export??Commodity??Fair???etc.?event,???strengthen??port?
?to?whole country??DE?connection??capability??.?]?
[S1 In the past five years, Shanghai strength-ened the connection of its port to other areasof the country through actively procuring ex-port supplies from other provinces and cities,and through organizing events such as the EastChina Export Commodities Fair.]?
(7) [S2?
?At the same time?,??develop??transnational??operation?,??vigorously?
?open up???diversified???]market?
[S2 At the same time, (it) developed transna-tional operations (and) vigorously opened updiversified markets.
]?Since the subject can be omitted from the en-tire sentence, absence or presence of subject ina clause is not an indication whether the clauseis a main clause or a free adjunct, or whether itis part of a VP coordination without a connec-tive.
So if we take into account both the lack ofdifferentiating inflectional clues and the possi-bility of omitting the subject, AO4 in (5) maybe literally translated as ?generally acknowl-edging acceptance?, or ?
(and) generally ac-knowledged acceptance?, or ?
(companies) gen-erally acknowledged acceptance?, or ?
(compa-nies) generally acknowledged (they) accepted(it)?.Since in Chinese, there is no reliable indicator dis-tinguishing between main clauses and free adjuncts,or distinguishing between coordination on the clauselevel without the subject and coordination on the VPlevel, we will not rely on these distinctions in anno-tation, as the PDTB team does in their annotation.These basic decisions directly based on linguisticcharacteristics of Chinese lead to more systematicadaptations to the annotation scheme, to which wewill turn in the next subsection.3.2 Systematic adaptationsThe main consequence of the basic decisions de-scribed in Section 3.1 is that we have a whole lot72more tokens of implicit relation than explicit rela-tion to deal with.
According to a rough count on20 randomly selected files from Chinese Treebank(Xue et al, 2005), 82% are tokens of implicit rela-tion, compared to 54.5% in the PDTB 2.0.
Giventhe overwhelming number of implicit relations, were-examine where it could make an impact in the an-notation scheme.
There are three such areas.3.2.1 Procedural division between explicit andimplicit discourse relationIn the PDTB, explicit and implicit relations areannotated separately.
This is probably partly be-cause explicit connectives are quite abundant in En-glish, and partly because the project evolved instages, expanding from the more canonical case ofexplicit relation to implicit relation for greater cov-erage.
When annotating Chinese text, maintainingthis procedural division makes much less sense: thelandscape of discourse relation (or at least the keyelements of it) has already been mapped out by thePDTB work and to set up a separate task to cover18% of the data does not seem like a worthwhilebother without additional benefits for doing so.So the question now is how to annotate explicitand implicit relations in one fell swoop?
In Chi-nese text, the use of a discourse connective is al-most always accompanied by a punctuation or two(usually period and/or comma), preceding or flank-ing it.
So a sensible solution is to rely on punctu-ations as the denominator between explicit and im-plicit relations;and in the case of explicit relation,the connective will be marked up as an attribute ofthe discourse relation.
This unified approach simpli-fies the annotation procedure while preserving theexplicit/implicit distinction in the process.One might question, at this point, whether suchan approach can still call itself ?lexically grounded?.Certainly not if one interprets the term literally ; butin a broader sense, our approach can be seen as aninstantiation of a generalized version of it, much thesame way that the PDTB is an, albeit different, in-stantiation of it for English.
The thrust of the lexi-cally grounded approach is that discourse annotationshould be a data-driven, bottom-up process, ratherthan a top-down one, trying to fit data into a pre-scriptive system.
Once the insight that a discourseconnective functions like a predicate with two ar-guments is generalized to cover all discourse rela-tions, there is no fundamental difference betweenexplicit and implicit discourse relations: both worklike a predicate whether or not there is a lexicaliza-tion of it.
As to what role this distinction plays inthe annotation procedure, it is an engineering issue,depending on a slew of factors, among which arecross-linguistic variations.
In the case of Chinese,we think it is more economical to treat explicit andimplicit relations alike in the annotation process.To treat explicit and implicit relations alike actu-ally goes beyond annotating them in one pass; it alsoinvolves how they are annotated, which we discussnext.3.2.2 Annotation of implicit discourse relationsIn the PDTB, treatment of implicit discourse rela-tions is modeled after that of explicit relations, and atthe same time, some restrictions are put on implicit,but not explicit, relations.
This is quite understand-able: implicit discourse relations tend to be vagueand elusive, so making use of explicit relations as aprototype helps pin them down, and restrictions areput in place to strike a balance between high relia-bility and good coverage.
When implicit relationsconstitute a vast majority of the data as is the casewith Chinese, both aspects need to be re-examinedto strike a new balance.In the PDTB, annotators are asked to insert adiscourse connective that best conveys the implicitdiscourse relation between two adjacent discourseunits; when no such connective expression is ap-propriate, the implicit discourse relation is furtherdistinguished as ?AltLex?, ?EntRel?, and ?NoRel?.The inserted connectives and those marked as ?Al-tLex?, along with explicit discourse connectives, arefurther annotated with respect to their senses.When a connective needs to be inserted in a ma-jority of cases, the difficulty of the task really standsout.
In many cases, it seems, there is a good rea-son for not having a connective present and becauseof it, the wording rejects insertion of a connectiveeven if it expresses the underlying discourse relationexactly (or sometimes, maybe the wording itself isthe reason for not having a connective).
So to tryto insert a connective expression may very well betoo hard a task for annotators, with little to show fortheir effort in the end.73Furthermore, the inter-annotator agreement forproviding an explicit connective in place of an im-plicit one is computed based on the type of explicitconnectives (e.g.
cause-effect relations, temporal re-lations, contrastive relations, etc.
), rather than basedon their identity (Miltsakaki et al, 2004).
This sug-gests that a reasonable degree of agreement for sucha task may only be reached with a coarse classifica-tion scheme.Given the above two considerations, our solutionis to annotate implicit discourse relations with theirsenses directly, bypassing the step of inserting a con-nective expression.
It has been pointed out that totrain annotators to reason about pre-defined abstractrelations with high reliability might be too hard atask (Prasad et al, 2007).
This difficulty can beovercome by associating each semantic type withone or two prototypical explicit connectives and ask-ing annotators to consider each to see if it expressesthe implicit discourse relation.
This way, annotatorshave a concrete aid to reason about abstract relationswithout having to choose one connective from a setexpressing roughly the same relation or having toworry about whether insertion of the connective issomehow awkward.It should be noted that annotating implicit rela-tions directly with their senses means that sense an-notation is no longer restricted to those that can belexically expressed, but also includes those that can-not, notably those labeled ?EntRel/NoRel?
in thePDTB.2 In other words, we annotate senses of dis-course relations, not just connectives and their lex-ical alternatives (in the case of AltLex).
This ex-pansion is consistent with the generalized view ofthe lexically grounded approach discussed in Sec-tion 3.2.1.With respect to restrictions on implicit relation,we will adopt them as they prove to be necessaryin the annotation process, with one exception.
Theexception is the restriction that implicit relations be-tween adjacent clauses in the same sentence not sep-arated by a semi-colon are not annotated.
This re-striction seems to apply mainly to a main clause andany free adjunct attached to it in English; in Chinese,however, the distinction between a main clause and a2Thus ?EntRel?
and ?NoRel?
are treated as relation senses,rather than relation types, in our scheme.free adjunct is not as clear-cut for reasons explainedin Section 3.1.
So this restriction is not applicablefor Chinese annotation.3.2.3 Definition of Arg1 and Arg2The third area that an overwhelming number ofimplicit relation in the data affects is how Arg1 andArg2 are defined.
As mentioned in the introduc-tion, discourse relations are viewed as a predicationwith two arguments.
These two arguments are de-fined based on the physical location of the connec-tive in the PDTB: Arg2 is the argument expressed bythe clause syntactically bound to the connective andArg1 is the other argument.
In the case of implicitrelations, the label is assigned according to the textorder.In an annotation task where implicit relations con-stitute an overwhelming majority, the distinction ofArg1 and Arg2 is meaningless in most cases.
In addi-tion, the phenomenon of parallel connectives is pre-dominant in Chinese.
Parallel connectives are pairsof connectives that take the same arguments, exam-ples of which in English are ?if..then?, ?either..or?,and ?on the one hand..on the other hand?.
In Chi-nese, most connectives are part of a pair; thoughsome can be dropped from their pair, it is considered?proper?
or formal to use both.
(8) below presentstwo such examples, for which parallel connectivesare not possible in English.
(8) a.
??London?
?stock market?because??coincide??
?Bank Holiday?,?therefore??NEG??
?open market?London Stock Market did not open because itwas Bank Holiday.?b.
??Although?
?they?NEG?leave?land?,?NEG?leave?home village?,?but??strict?PART?speak?already?
?no longer?be??tradition??sense?PREP?DE??
?peasant?Although they do not leave land or their homevillage, strictly speaking, they are no longerpeasants in the traditional sense.
?In the PDTB, parallel connectives are annotated dis-continuously; but given the prevalence of such phe-nomenon in Chinese, such practice would generate74a considerably high percentage of essentially repeti-tive annotation among explicit relations.So the situation with Chinese is that distinguish-ing Arg1 and Arg2 the PDTB way is meaninglessin most cases, and in the remaining cases, it of-ten results in duplication.
Rather than abandoningthe distinction altogether, we think it makes moresense to define Arg1 and Arg2 semantically.
It willnot create too much additional work beyond distinc-tion of different senses of discourse relation in thePDTB.
For example, in the semantic type CONTIN-GENCY:Cause, we can define ?reason?
as Arg1 and?result?
as Arg2.
In this scheme, no matter whichone of?
(?because?)
and?
(?therefore?)
appearswithout the other, or if they appear as a pair in asentence, or if the relation is implicit, the Arg1 andArg2 labels will be consistently assigned to the sameclauses.This approach is consistent with the move fromannotating senses of connectives to annotatingsenses of discourse relations, pointed out in Section3.2.2.
For example, in the PDTB?s sense hierarchy,?reason?
and ?result?
are subtypes under type CON-TINGENCY:Cause: ?reason?
applies to connectiveslike ?because?
and ?since?
while ?result?
appliesto connectives like ?so?
and ?as a result?.
Whenwe move to annotating senses of discourse relations,since both types of connectives express the same un-derlying discourse relation, there will not be furtherdivision under CONTINGENCY:Cause, and the ?rea-son?/?result?
distinction is an intrinsic property ofthe semantic type.
We think this level of generalitymakes sense semantically.4 Annotation experimentTo test our adapted annotation scheme, we have con-ducted annotation experiments on a modest, yet sig-nificant, amount of data and computed agreementstatistics.4.1 Set-upThe agreement statistics come from annotation con-ducted by two annotators in training so far.
The dataset consists of 98 files taken from the Chinese Tree-bank (Xue et al, 2005).
The source of these files isXinhua newswire.
The annotation is carried out onthe PDTB annotation tool3.4.2 Inter-annotator agreementTo evaluate our proposed scheme, we measureagreement on each adaption proposed in Section3, as well as agreement on argument span deter-mination.
Whenever applicable, we also present(roughly) comparable statistics of the PDTB (Milt-sakaki et al, 2004).
The results are summarized inTable 1.Chinese PDTBtkn no.
F(p/r) (%) (%)rel-ident 3951*95.4N/A(96.0/94.7)rel-type 3951 95.1 N/Aimp-sns-type 2967 87.4 72arg-order 3059 99.8 N/Aargument spanexp-span-xm 1580 84.2 90.2exp-span-pm 1580 99.6 94.5imp-span-xm 5934 76.9 85.1overall-bnd- 14039*87.7N/A(87.5/87.9)Table 1: Inter-annotator agreement in various aspectsof Chinese discourse annotation: rel-ident, discourserelation identification; rel-type, relation type classifica-tion; imp-sns-type, classification of sense type of im-plicit relations; arg-order, order determination of Arg1and Arg2.
For agreement on argument spans, thenaming convention is <type-of-relation>-<element-as-independent-token>-<matching-method>.
exp: explicitrelations; imp: implicit relations; span: argument span;xm: exact match; pm: partial match; bnd: boundary.
*:number of tokens agreed on by both annotators.The first adaption we proposed is to annotate ex-plicit and implicit discourse relations in one pass.This introduces two steps, at which agreement caneach be measured: First, the annotator needs tomake the judgment, at each instance of the punctu-ations, whether there is a discourse relation (a stepwe call ?relation identification?
); second, once a dis-course relation is identified, the annotator needs toclassify the type as one of ?Explicit?, ?Implicit?, or?AltLex?
(a step we call ?relation type classifica-tion?).
The agreement at these two steps is 95.4%3http://www.seas.upenn.edu/?pdtb/tools.shtml#annotator75and 95.1% respectively.The second adaption is to bypass the step of in-serting a connective when annotating an implicit dis-course relation and classify the sense directly.
Thethird adaptation is to define Arg1 and Arg2 semanti-cally for each sense.
To help annotators think aboutrelation sense abstractly and determine the order ofthe arguments, we put a helper item alongside eachsense label, like ?Causation: ??arg1??arg2?
(?Causation: because arg1 therefore arg2?).
Thisapproach works well, as evidenced by 87.4%4 and99.8% agreement for the two processes respectively.To evaluate agreement on determining argumentspan, we adopt four measures.
In the first three,explicit and implicit relations are calculated sepa-rately (although they are actually annotated in thesame process) to make our results comparable tothe published PDTB results.
Each argument span istreated as an independent token and either exact orpartial match (i.e.
if two spans share one boundary)counts as 1.
The fourth measure is less stringent thanexact match and more stringent than partial match:It groups explicit and implicit relation together andtreats each boundary as an independent token.
Typ-ically, an argument span has two boundaries, but itcan have four (or more) boundaries when an argu-ment span is interrupted by a connective and/or anAltLex item.Evidently, determining argument span is the mostchallenging aspect of discourse annotation.
How-ever, it should be pointed out that agreement was onan overall upward trend, which became especiallyprominent after we instituted a restriction on im-plicit relations across a paragraph boundary towardsthe end of the training period.
It restricts full anno-4Two more points should be made about this number.
First,it may be partially attributed to our differently structured sensehierarchy.
It is a flat structure containing the following 12 val-ues: ALTERNATIVE, CAUSATION, CONDITIONAL, CONJUNC-TION, CONTRAST, EXPANSION, PROGRESSION, PURPOSE,RESTATEMENT, TEMPORAL, EntRel, and NoRel.
Aside from in-cluding EntRel and NoRel (the reason and significance of whichhave been discussed in Section 3.2.2), the revision was by andlarge not motivated by Chinese-specific features, so we do notaddress it in detail in this paper.
Second, in making the compar-ison with the PDTB result, the 12-value structure is collapsedinto 5 values: TEMPORAL, CONTINGENCY, COMPARISON, EX-PANSION, and EntRel/NoRel, which must be different from the5 values in Miltsakaki et al (2004), judging from the descrip-tions.tation to only three specific situations so that mostloose and/or hard-to-delimit relations across para-graph boundaries are excluded.
This restriction ap-pears to be quite effective, as shown in Table 2.num Overall Arg Spanof boundary span-emrel.
?s F(p/r) (%) (%)last 5 wks 1103 90.0 (90.0/89.9) 80.8last 3 wks 677 91.0 (91.0/91.0) 82.5last 2 wks 499 91.8 (91.8/91.8) 84.2Table 2: Inter-annotator agreement on argument spanduring the last 5 weeks of training.5 ConclusionsWe have presented a discourse annotation schemefor Chinese that adopts the lexically ground ap-proach of the PDTB while making systematic adap-tations motivated by characteristics of Chinese text.These adaptations not only work well in practice, asevidenced by the results from our annotation exper-iment, but also embody a more generalized view ofthe lexically ground approach to discourse annota-tion: Discourse relations are predication involvingtwo arguments; the predicate can be either covert(i.e.
Implicit) or overt, lexicalized as discourse con-nectives (i.e.
Explicit) or their more polymorphouscounterparts (i.e.
AltLex).
Consistent with thisgeneralized view is a more semantically motivatedsense annotation scheme: Senses of discourse rela-tions (as opposed to just connectives) are annotated;and the two arguments of the discourse relation aresemantically defined, allowing the sense structureto be more general and less connective-dependent.These framework-level generalizations can be ap-plied to discourse annotation of other languages.AcknowledgmentsThis work is supported by the IIS Division of the Na-tional Science Foundation via Grant No.
0910532entitled ?Richer Representations for Machine Trans-lation?and by the CNS Division via Grant No.0855184 entitled ?Building a community resourcefor temporal inference in Chinese?.
All views ex-pressed in this paper are those of the authors and do76not necessarily represent the view of the NationalScience Foundation.ReferencesLynn Carlson, Daniel Marcu, and Mary Ellen Okurowski.2003.
Building a Discourse-Tagged Corpus in theFramework of Rhetorical Structure Theory.
In CurrentDirections in Discourse and Dialogue.
Kluwer Aca-demic Publishers.William Mann and Sandra Thompson.
1988.
Rhetori-cal structure theory.
Toward a functional theory of textorganization.
Text, 8(3):243?281.Eleni Miltsakaki, Rashmi Prasad, Aravind Joshi, andBonnie Webber.
2004.
Annotating discourse con-nectives and their arguments.
In Proceedings of theHLT/NAACL Workshop on Frontiers in Corpus Anno-tation, pages 9?16, Boston, MA, May.Rashmi Prasad, Eleni Miltsakaki, Nikhil Dinesh, AlanLee, Aravind Joshi, Livio Robaldo, and Bonnie Web-ber, 2007.
The Penn Discourse Treebank 2.0 Annota-tion Manual.
The PDTB Research Group, December.Rashmi Prasad, Nikhil Dinesh, Alan Lee, Eleni Milt-sakaki, Livio Robaldo, Aravind Joshi, and BonnieWebber.
2008.
The Penn Discourse Treebank 2.0.In Proceedings of the 6th International Conference onLanguage Resources and Evaluation (LREC 2008).Nianwen Xue, Fei Xia, Fu dong Chiou, and MarthaPalmer.
2005.
The Penn Chinese TreeBank: PhraseStructure Annotation of a Large Corpus.
Natural Lan-guage Engineering, 11(2):207?238.Nianwen Xue.
2005.
Annotating the Discourse Con-nectives in the Chinese Treebank.
In Proceedings ofthe ACL Workshop on Frontiers in Corpus Annotation,Ann Arbor, Michigan.77
