Proceedings of the 50th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics, pages 70?74,Jeju, Republic of Korea, 8-14 July 2012. c?2012 Association for Computational LinguisticsLearning to Temporally Order Medical Events in Clinical TextPreethi Raghavan?, Eric Fosler-Lussier?, and Albert M.
Lai?
?Department of Computer Science and Engineering?Department of Biomedical InformaticsThe Ohio State University, Columbus, Ohio, USA{raghavap, fosler}@cse.ohio-state.edu, albert.lai@osumc.eduAbstractWe investigate the problem of ordering med-ical events in unstructured clinical narrativesby learning to rank them based on their timeof occurrence.
We represent each medicalevent as a time duration, with a correspond-ing start and stop, and learn to rank thestarts/stops based on their proximity to the ad-mission date.
Such a representation allows usto learn all of Allen?s temporal relations be-tween medical events.
Interestingly, we ob-serve that this methodology performs betterthan a classification-based approach for thisdomain, but worse on the relationships foundin the Timebank corpus.
This finding has im-portant implications for styles of data repre-sentation and resources used for temporal re-lation learning: clinical narratives may havedifferent language attributes corresponding totemporal ordering relative to Timebank, im-plying that the field may need to look at awider range of domains to fully understand thenature of temporal ordering.1 IntroductionThere has been considerable research on learningtemporal relations between events in natural lan-guage.
Most learning problems try to classify eventpairs as related by one of Allen?s temporal rela-tions (Allen, 1981) i.e., before, simultaneous, in-cludes/during, overlaps, begins/starts, ends/finishesand their inverses (Mani et al, 2006).
The Timebankcorpus, widely used for temporal relation learning,consists of newswire text annotated for events, tem-poral expressions, and temporal relations betweenevents using TimeML (Pustejovsky et al, 2003).
InTimebank, the notion of an ?event?
primarily con-sists of verbs or phrases that denote change in state.However, there may be a need to rethink how welearn temporal relations between events in differentdomains.
Timebank, its features, and establishedlearning techniques like classification, may not workoptimally in many real-world problems where tem-poral relation learning is of great importance.We study the problem of learning temporal rela-tions between medical events in clinical text.
Theidea of a medical ?event?
in clinical text is very dif-ferent from events in Timebank.
Medical eventsare temporally-associated concepts in clinical textthat describe a medical condition affecting the pa-tient?s health, or procedures performed on a patient.Learning to temporally order events in clinical textis fundamental to understanding patient narrativesand key to applications such as longitudinal studies,question answering, document summarization andinformation retrieval with temporal constraints.
Wepropose learning temporal relations between medi-cal events found in clinical narratives by learning torank them.
This is achieved by representing medicalevents as time durations with starts and stops andranking them based on their proximity to the admis-sion date.1 This implicitly allows us to learn all ofAllen?s temporal relations between medical events.In this paper, we establish the need to rethinkthe methods and resources used in temporal re-lation learning, as we demonstrate that the re-sources widely used for learning temporal relationsin newswire text do not work on clinical text.
Whenwe model the temporal ordering problem in clinicaltext as a ranking problem, we empirically show thatit outperforms classification; we perform similar ex-periments with Timebank and observe the oppositeconclusion (classification outperforms ranking).1The admission date is the only explicit date always presentin each clinical narrative.70e1 before e2 e1 equals e2e1.start e1.start; e2.starte1.stop e1.stop; e2.stope2.starte2.stope1 overlaps with e2 e1 starts e2e1.start e1.start; e2.starte2.start e1.stope1.stop e2.stope2.stope2 during e1 e2 finishes e1e1.start e1.starte2.start e2.starte2.stop e1.stop; e2.stope1.stopTable 1: Allen?s temporal relations between medicalevents can be realized by ordering the starts and stops2 Related WorkThe Timebank corpus provides hand-tagged fea-tures, including tense, aspect, modality, polarity andevent class.
There have been significant effortsin machine learning of temporal relations betweenevents using these features and a wide range of otherfeatures extracted from the Timebank corpus (Maniet al, 2006; Chambers et al, 2007; Lapata and Las-carides, 2011).
The SemEval/TempEval (Verhagenet al, 2009) challenges have often focused on tem-poral relation learning between different types ofevents from Timebank.
Zhou and Hripcsak (2007)provide a comprehensive survey of temporal reason-ing with clinical data.
There has also been somework in generating annotated corpora of clinical textfor temporal relation learning (Roberts et al, 2008;Savova et al, 2009).
However, none of these cor-pora are freely available.
Zhou et al (2006) proposea Temporal Constraint Structure (TCS) for medicalevents in discharge summaries.
They use rule-basedmethods to induce this structure.We demonstrate the need to rethink resources,features and methods of learning temporal relationsbetween events in different domains with the help ofexperiments in learning temporal relations in clini-cal text.
Specifically, we observe that we get betterresults in learning to rank chains of medical eventsto derive temporal relations (and their inverses) thanlearning a classifier for the same task.The problem of learning to rank from exampleshas gained significant interest in the machine learn-ing community, with important similarities and dif-ferences with the problems of regression and clas-sification (Joachims et al, 2007).
The joint cumu-lative distribution of many variables arises in prob-HISTORY PHYSICAL                                                                DATE: 09/01/2007  NAME: Smith Daniel T                                                          MR#: XXX-XX-XXXX  ATTENDING PHYSICIAN: John Payne MD                           DOB: 03/10/1940  HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS  The patient is a 67-year-old Caucasian male with a history of paresis secondary to back  injury who is bedridden status post colostomy and PEG tube who was brought by EMS with  a history of fever.
The patient gives a history of fever on and off associated with chills for the last 1 month.
He does give a history of decubitus ulcer on the back but his main  complaint is fever associated with epigastric discomfort.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY  Significant for polymicrobial infection in the blood as well as in the urine in July 2007 history  of back injury with paraparesis.
He is status post PEG tube and colostomy tube.
REVIEW OF SYSTEMS  Positive for decubitus ulcer.
No cough.
There is fever.
No shortness of breath.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION  On physical exam the patient is a debilitated malnourished gentleman in mild distress.
Abdomen showed PEG tube with discharging pus and there are multiple scars one in the  midline.
It had a healing wound.
Bowel sounds were present.
Extremities revealed pain and  atrophied muscles in the lower extremities with decubitus ulcer which had a transparent  bandage in the decubitus area which was stage 2-3.
CNS - The patient is alert and awake x3.
There was good power in both upper extremities.
Cranial nerves II-XII grossly intact.Figure 1: Excerpt from a sanitized clinical narrative (history &physical report) with medical events underlined.lems of learning to rank objects in information re-trieval and various other domains.
To the best of ourunderstanding, there have been no previous attemptsto learn temporal relations between events using aranking approach.3 Representation of Medical Events (MEs)Clinical narratives contain unstructured text describ-ing various MEs including conditions, diagnosesand tests in the history of a patient, along withsome information on when they occurred.
Much ofthe temporal information in clinical text is implicitand embedded in relative temporal relations betweenMEs.
A sample excerpt from a note is shown inFigure 1.
MEs are temporally related both qualita-tively (e.g., paresis before colostomy) and quantita-tively (e.g.
chills 1 month before admission).
Rela-tive time may be more prevalent than absolute time(e.g., last 1 month, post colostomy rather than onJuly 2007).
Temporal expressions may also be fuzzywhere history may refer to an event 1 year ago or 3months ago.
The relationship between MEs and timeis complicated.
MEs could be recurring or continu-ous vs. discrete date or time, such as fever vs. bloodin urine.
Some are long lasting vs. short-lived, suchas cancer, leukemia vs. palpitations.We represent MEs of any type of in terms of theirtime duration.
The idea of time duration based rep-resentation for MEs is in the same spirit as TCS(Zhou et al, 2006).
We break every ME me intome.start and me.stop.
Given the ranking of all startsand stops, we can now compose every one of Allen?stemporal relations (Allen, 1981).
If it is clear fromcontext that only the start or stop of a ME can be de-termined, then only that is considered.
For instance,?history of paresis secondary to back injury who isbedridden status post colostomy?
indicates the startof paresis is in the past history of the patient prior71to colostomy.
We only know about paresis.start rel-ative to other MEs and may not be able determineparesis.stop.
For recurring and continuous eventslike chills and fever, if the time period of recurrenceis continuous (last 1 month), we consider it to bethe time duration of the event.
If not continuous, weconsider separate instances of the ME.
For MEs thatare associated with a fixed date or time, the start andstop are assumed to be the same (e.g., polymicrobialinfection in the blood as well as in the urine in July2007).
In case of negated events like no cough, weconsider cough as the ME with a negative polarity.Its start and stop time are assumed to be the same.Polarity allows us to identify events that actually oc-curred in the patient?s history.4 Ranking Model and ExperimentsGiven a patient with multiple clinical narratives, ourobjective is to induce a partial temporal ordering ofall medical events in each clinical narrative based ontheir proximity to a reference date (admission).The training data consists of medical event (ME)chains, where each chain consists of an instance ofthe start or stop of a ME belonging to the same clin-ical narrative along with a rank.
The assumption isthat the MEs in the same narrative are more or lesssemantically related by virtue of narrative discoursestructure and are hence considered part of the sameME chain.
The rank assigned to an instance indi-cates the temporal order of the event instance in thechain.
Multiple MEs could occupy the same rank.Based on the rank of the starts and stops of eventinstances relative to other event instances, the tem-poral relations between them can be derived as indi-cated in Table 1.
Our corpus for ranking consistedof 47 clinical narratives obtained from the medicalcenter and annotated with MEs, temporal expres-sions, relations and event chains.
The annotationagreement across our team of annotators is high; allannotators agreed on 89.5% of the events and ouroverall inter-annotator Cohen?s kappa statistic (Con-ger, 1980) for MEs was 0.865.
Thus, we extracted47 ME chains across 4 patients.
The distribution ofMEs across event chains and chains across patients(p) is as as follows.
p1 had 5 chains with 68 MEs,p2 had 9 chains with 90 MEs, p3 had 20 chains with119 MEs and p4 had 13 chains with 82 MEs.
Thedistribution of chains across different types of clin-ical narratives is shown in Figure 2.
We constructa vector of features, from the manually annotatedcorpus, for each medical event instance.
Although02468101214Radiology Discharge Summaries Pathology History & Physicalp1 p2 p3 p4Figure 2: Distribution of the 47 medical event chains derivedfrom discharge summaries, history and physical reports, pathol-ogy and radiology notes across the 4 patients.there is no real query in our set up, the admissiondate for each chain can be thought of as the query?date?
and the MEs are ordered based on how closeor far they are from each other and the admissiondate.
The features extracted for each ME includethe the type of clinical narrative, section informa-tion, ME polarity, position of the medical conceptin the narrative and verb pattern.
We extract tempo-ral expressions linked to the ME like history, beforeadmission, past, during examination, on discharge,after discharge, on admission.
Temporal referencesto specific times like next day, previously are re-solved and included in the feature set.
We also ex-tract features from each temporal expression indicat-ing its closeness to the admission date.
Differencesbetween each explicit date in the narrative is alsoextracted.
The UMLS(Bodenreider, 2004) semanticcategory of each medical concept is also includedbased on the intuition that MEs of a certain semanticgroup may occur closer to admission.
We tried usingfeatures like the tense of ME or the verb precedingthe ME (if any), POS tag in ranking.
We found noimprovement in accuracy upon their inclusion.In addition to the above features, we also anchoreach ME to a coarse time-bin and use that as a fea-ture in ranking.
We define the following sequenceof time-bins centered around admission, {way be-fore admission, before admission, on admission, af-ter admission, after discharge}.
The time-bins arelearned using a linear-chain CRF,2 where the obser-vation sequence is MEs in the order in which theyappear in a clinical narrative, and the state sequenceis the corresponding label sequence of time-bins.We ran ranking experiments using SVM-rank(Joachims, 2006), and based on the ranking scoreassigned to each start/stop instance, we derive therelative temporal order of MEs in a chain.3 This inturn allows us to infer temporal relations between2http://mallet.cs.umass.edu/sequences.php3In evaluating simultaneous, ?0.05 difference in rankingscore of starts/stops of MEs is counted as a match.72Relation Clinical Text TimebankRanking Classifier Ranking Classifierbegins 81.21 73.34 52.63 58.82ends 76.33 69.85 61.32 82.87simulatenous 85.45 71.31 50.23 56.58includes 83.67 74.20 59.56 60.65before 88.3 77.14 61.34 70.38Table 2: Per-class accuracy (%) for ranking, classification onclinical text and Timebank.
We merge class ibefore into before.all MEs in a chain.
The ranking error on the test setis 28.2%.
On introducing the time-bin feature, theranking error drops to 16.8%.
The overall accuracyof ranking MEs on including the time-bin featureis 82.16%.
Each learned relation is now comparedwith the pairwise classification of temporal relationsbetween MEs.
We train a SVM classifier (Joachims,1999) with an RBF kernel for pairwise classificationof temporal relations.
The average classification ac-curacy for clinical text using the same feature set is71.33%.
We used Timebank (v1.1) for evaluation,186 newswire documents with 3345 event pairs.
Wetraverse transitive relations between events in Time-bank, increasing the number of event-event linksto 6750 and create chains of related events to beranked.
Classification works better on Timebank, re-sulting in an overall accuracy of 63.88%, but rank-ing gives only 55.41% accuracy.
All classificationand ranking results from 10-fold cross validation arepresented in Table 2.5 DiscussionIn ranking, the objective of learning is formalizedas minimizing the fraction of swapped pairs over allrankings.
This model is well suited to the featuresthat are available in clinical text.
The assumptionthat all MEs in a clinical narrative are temporally re-lated allows us to totally order events within eachnarrative.
This works because a clinical narrativeusually has a single protagonist, the patient.
This as-sumption, along with the availability of a fixed refer-ence date in each narrative, allows us to effectivelyextract features that work in ranking MEs.
How-ever, this assumption does not hold in newswire text:there tend to be multiple protagonists, and it may bepossible to totally order only events that are linked tothe same protagonist.
Ranking implicitly allows usto learn the transitive relations between MEs in thechain.
Ranking ME starts/ stops captures relationslike includes and begins much better than classifi-cation, primarily because of the date difference andtime-bin difference features.
However, the hand-tagged features available in Timebank are not suitedfor this kind of model.
The features work well withclassification but are not sufficiently informative tolearn time durations using our proposed event repre-sentation in a ranking model.
Features like ?tense?that are used for temporal relation learning in Time-bank are not very useful in ME ordering.
Tenseis a temporal linguistic quality expressing the timeat, or during which a state or action denoted by averb occurs.
In most cases, MEs are not verbs (e.g.,colostomy).
Even if we consider verbs co-occurringwith MEs, they are not always accurately reflectiveof the MEs?
temporal nature.
Moreover, in dischargesummaries, almost all MEs or co-occurring verbsare in the past tense (before the discharge date).
Thisis complicated by the fact that the reference time/ME with respect to which the tense of the verb isexpressed is not always clear.
Based on the type ofclinical narrative, when it was generated, the refer-ence date for the tense of the verb could be in thepatient?s history, admission, discharge, or an inter-mediate date between admission and discharge.
Forsimilar reasons, features like POS and aspect are notvery informative in ordering MEs.
Moreover, fea-tures like aspect require annotators with not only aclinical background but also some expert knowledgein linguistics, which is not feasible.6 ConclusionsRepresenting and reasoning with temporal informa-tion in unstructured text is crucial to the field of natu-ral language processing and biomedical informatics.We presented a study on learning to rank medicalevents.
Temporally ordering medical events allowsus to induce a partial order of medical events overthe patient?s history.
We noted many differences be-tween learning temporal relations in clinical text andTimebank.
The ranking experiments on clinical textyield better performance than classification, whereasthe performance is the exact opposite in Timebank.Based on experiments in two very different domains,we demonstrate the need to rethink the resources andmethods for temporal relation learning.AcknowledgmentsThe project was supported by the NCRR,Grant UL1RR025755, KL2RR025754, andTL1RR025753, is now at the NCATS, Grant8KL2TR000112-05, 8UL1TR000090-05,8TL1TR000091-05.
The content is solely theresponsibility of the authors and does not necessar-ily represent the official views of the NIH.73ReferencesJames F. Allen.
1981.
An interval-based representationof temporal knowledge.
In IJCAI, pages 221?226.Olivier Bodenreider.
2004.
The unified medical lan-guage system (umls): integrating biomedical termi-nology.
Nucleic Acids Research, 32(suppl 1):D267?D270.Nathanael Chambers, Shan Wang, and Daniel Jurafsky.2007.
Classifying temporal relations between events.In ACL.A.J.
Conger.
1980.
Integration and generalization ofkappas for multiple raters.
In Psychological BulletinVol 88(2), pages 322?328.Thorsten Joachims, Hang Li, Tie-Yan Liu, and ChengX-iang Zhai.
2007.
Learning to rank for informationretrieval (lr4ir 2007).
SIGIR Forum, 41(2):58?62.Thorsten Joachims.
1999.
Making large-scale SVMlearning practical.
In Bernhard Scho?lkopf, Christo-pher John C. Burges, and Alexander J. Smola, editors,Advances in Kernel Methods - Support Vector Learn-ing, pages 169?184.
MIT Press.Thorsten Joachims.
2006.
Training linear SVMs in lineartime.
In KDD, pages 217?226.Mirella Lapata and Alex Lascarides.
2011.
Learn-ing sentence-internal temporal relations.
CoRR,abs/1110.1394.Inderjeet Mani, Marc Verhagen, Ben Wellner, Chong MinLee, and James Pustejovsky.
2006.
Machine learningof temporal relations.
In ACL.James Pustejovsky, Jos M. Castao, Robert Ingria, RoserSauri, Robert J. Gaizauskas, Andrea Setzer, GrahamKatz, and Dragomir R. Radev.
2003.
TimeML: Ro-bust specification of event and temporal expressionsin text.
In New Directions in Question Answering?03,pages 28?34.A.
Roberts, R. Gaizauskas, M. Hepple, G. Demetriou,Y.
Guo, and A. Setzer.
2008.
Semantic Annotation ofClinical Text: The CLEF Corpus.
In Proceedings ofthe LREC 2008 Workshop on Building and EvaluatingResources for Biomedical Text Mining, pages 19?26.Guergana K. Savova, Steven Bethard, Will Styler, JamesMartin, Martha Palmer, James Masanz, and WayneWard.
2009.
Towards temporal relation discoveryfrom the clinical narrative.
AMIA.Marc Verhagen, Robert J. Gaizauskas, Frank Schilder,Mark Hepple, Jessica Moszkowicz, and James Puste-jovsky.
2009.
The tempeval challenge: identifyingtemporal relations in text.
Language Resources andEvaluation, 43(2):161?179.Li Zhou and George Hripcsak.
2007.
Temporal rea-soning with medical data - a review with emphasison medical natural language processing.
Journal ofBiomedical Informatics, pages 183?202.Li Zhou, Genevieve B. Melton, Simon Parsons, andGeorge Hripcsak.
2006.
A temporal constraint struc-ture for extracting temporal information from clinicalnarrative.
Journal of Biomedical Informatics, pages424?439.74
