Proceedings of the 50th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics, pages 163?168,Jeju, Republic of Korea, 8-14 July 2012. c?2012 Association for Computational LinguisticsSocial Event Radar: A Bilingual Context Mining and Sentiment AnalysisSummarization SystemWen-Tai Hsieh Chen-Ming WuDepartment of IM,National Taiwan UniversityInstitute for Information Industrywentai@iii.org.tw cmwu@iii.org.twTsun Ku Seng-cho T. ChouInstitute for Information Industry Department of IM,National Taiwan Universitycujing@iii.org.tw chou@im.ntu.edu.twAbstractSocial Event Radar is a new socialnetworking-based service platform, thataim to alert as well as monitor anymerchandise flaws, food-safety relatedissues, unexpected eruption of diseases orcampaign issues towards to theGovernment, enterprises of any kind orelection parties, through keywordexpansion detection module, usingbilingual sentiment opinion analysis toolkit to conclude the specific event socialdashboard and deliver the outcome helpingauthorities to plan ?risk control?
strategy.With the rapid development of socialnetwork, people can now easily publishtheir opinions on the Internet.
On the otherhand, people can also obtain variousopinions from others in a few seconds eventhough they do not know each other.
Atypical approach to obtain requiredinformation is to use a search engine withsome relevant keywords.
We thus take thesocial media and forum as our major datasource and aim at collecting specific issuesefficiently and effectively in this work.1 IntroductionThe primary function of S.E.R.
technology issimple and clear: as a realtime risk controlmanagement technology to assist monitoring hugeamount of new media related information andgiving a warning for utility users?
sake inefficiency way.In general, S.E.R.
technology constantlycrawling all new media based information datarelating to the client 24-hour a day so that theinfluential opinion/reports can be monitored,recorded, conveniently analyzed and moreimportantly is to send a warning signal before theissue outburst and ruining the authorities?reputation.
These monitor and alert services arebased on the socialnomics theory and provide twomain sets of service functionalities to clients foraccess online: Monitor and alert of new mediarelated information under the concept of cloudcomputing including two functionalities.First functionality is the monitoring set.
Withthe dramatic growth of Web?s popularity, timebecomes the most crucial factor.
Monitoringfunctionalities of S.E.R.
technology provides anaccess to the service platform realtime and online.All scalable mass social data coming from socialnetwork, forum, news portals, blogosphere of itslogin time, its social account and the content aremonitored and recorded.
In order to find key163opinion leaders and influential, the S.E.R.technology used social network influence analysisto identify a node and base on the recorded data tosort and analyze opinion trends statistics for everycustomer?s needs.Second functionality is alert module.
Alertfunctionalities of the S.E.R.
technologyautomatically give a warning text-messages or ane-mail within 6 hours whenever the goldenintersection happened, meaning the 1-day movingaverage is higher than the 7-days moving averageline, in order to plan its reaction scheme in earlystage.In empirical studies, we present our applicationof a Social Event Radar.
We also use a practicalcase to illustrate our system which is applied inindustries and society.
The rest of this paper isorganized as follows.
Preliminaries and relatedworks are reviewed in Section 2.
The primaryfunctionality and academic theory are mentioned inSection 3.
Practical example and influence areexplored in Section 4.
S.E.R.
detail operations areshown in Section 5.
Finally, this paper concludeswith Section 6.2 PreliminariesFor the purpose of identifying the opinions in theblogosphere, First of all, mining in blog entriesfrom the perspective of content and sentiment isexplored in Section 2.1.
Second, sentiment analysisin blog entries is discussed in Section 2.2.
Third,information diffusion is mentioned in Section 2.3.2.1 Topic Detection in Blog EntriesEven within the communities of similar interests,there are various topics discussed among people.
Inorder to extract these subjects, cluster-likedmethods Viermetz (2007) and Yoon (2009)areproposed to explore the interesting subjects.Topic-based events may have high impacts onthe articles in blogosphere.
However, it isimpossible to view all the topics because of thelarge amount.
By using the technique of topicdetection and tracking (Wang, 2008), the relatedstories can be identified with a stream of media.
Itis convenient for users who intend to see what isgoing on through the blogosphere.
The subjects arenot only classified in the first step, but also ranktheir importance to help user read these articles.After decomposing a topic into a keyword set,a concept space is appropriate for representingrelations among people, article and keywords.
Aconcept space is graph of terms occurring withinobjects linked to each other by the frequency withwhich they occur together.
Hsieh (2009) exploredthe possibility of discovering relations betweentags and bookmarks in a folksonomy system.
Byapplying concept space, the relationship of topiccan be measured by two keyword sets.Some researches calculate the similarity toidentify the characteristic.
One of the indicators isused to define the opinion in blog entries which is?Blogs tend to have certain levels of topicconsistency among their blog entries.?
Theindicator uses the KL distance to identify thesimilarity of blog entries (Song, 2007).
However,the opinion blog is easy to read and do not changetheir blog topics iteratively, this is the key factorthat similarity comparison can be applied on thisfeature.2.2 Opinion Discovery in Blog EntriesThe numbers of online comments on products orsubjects grow rapidly.
Although many commentsare long, there are only a few sentences containingdistinctive opinion.
Sentiment analysis is oftenused to extract the opinions in blog pages.Opinion can be recognized from variousaspects such as a word.
The semantic relationshipbetween opinion expression and topic terms isemphasized (Bo, 2004).
It means that using thepolarity of positive and negative terms in order topresent the sentiment tendency from a document.Within a given topic, similarity approach is oftenused to classify the sentences as opinions.Similarity approach measures sentence similaritybased on shared words and synonym words witheach sentence in documents and makes an averagescore.
According to the highest score, thesentences can assign to the sentiment or opinioncategory (Varlamis, 2008).Subjectivity in natural language refers toaspects of language used to express opinions andevaluation.
Subjectivity classification can preventthe polarity classifier from considering irrelevantmisleading text.
Subjectivity detection cancompress comments into much shorter sentenceswhich still retain its polarity informationcomparable to the entire comments (Rosario, 2004;Yu, 2003).1642.3 Information Diffusion in InternetThe phenomenon of information diffusion isstudied through the observation of evolving socialrelationship among bloggers (Gill, 2004; Wang,2007).
It is noted that a social network forms withbloggers and corresponding subscriptionrelationship.Information diffusion always concerns withtemporal evolution.
The blog topics are generatedin proportion to what happened in real world.Media focus stands for how frequently andrecently is the topic reported by new websites.User attention represents how much do bloggerslike to read news stories about the topic.
Byutilizing these two factors, the news topics areranked within a certain news story (Wang, 2008).The phenomenon of information diffusion isdriven by outside stimulation from real world(Gruhl, 2004).
It focuses on the propagation oftopics from blog to blog.
The phenomenon candiscuss from two directions.
One is topic-orientedmodel which provides a robust structure to thewhole interesting terms that bloggers care about.The other is individual-oriented model which helpsusers figure out which blogger has informationimpact to others.3 BUILDING BLOCKS OF S.E.RTECHNOLOGYThe core technology building block of S.E.R.technology is the central data processing systemthat currently sits in III?s project processing center.This core software system is now complete with aset of processing software that keeps analyzing therecorded data to produce reports and analyticalinformation, all those monitoring functionalitiesprovided to subscribers.Two important technology building blocks forthe success of the S.E.R.
are the bilingualsentiment opinion analysis (BSOA) technique, andsocial network influence analysis (SNIA)technique.
These techniques are keys to thesuccessful collection and monitoring of new mediainformation, which in turn is essential foridentifying the key opinion web-leaders andinfluential intelligently.
The following sectionsapply the academic theory combining withpractical functionality into the S.E.R.3.1 Bilingual Sentiment Opinion AnalysisBSOA technique under the S.E.R.
technology isimplemented along with lexicon based and domainknowledge.
The research team starts with conceptexpansion technique for building up a measurablekeyword network.
By applying particularlyPolysemy Processing Double negation ProcessingAdverb of Degree Processing sophisticatedalgorithm as shown in Figure 1, so that to rule outthe irrelevant factors in an accurate and efficiencyway.Aim at the Chinese applications; we develop thesystem algorithm based on the specialty of Chineselanguage.
The key approach crawl the hiddensentiment linking words, and then to build theassociation set.
We can, therefore, identify feature-oriented sentiment orientation of opinion moreconveniently and accurately by using thisassociation set analysis.Figure 1.
Bilingual Sentiment Opinion Analysis3.2 Social Network Influence AnalysisWho are the key opinion leaders in the opinionworld?
How critical do the leaders diffusion powermatters?
Who do they influence?
The moreinformation we have, so as the social networkingchannels, the more obstacles of monitoring andfinding the real influential we are facing right now.Within a vast computer network, the individualcomputers are on what so-called the periphery ofthe network.
Those nodes who have many linkspointing to them is not always the most influentialin the group.
We use a more sophisticatedalgorithm that takes into account both the directand indirect links in the network.
This SNIAtechnique under the S.E.R.
technology provides amore accurate evaluation and prediction of whoreally influences thought and affects the whole.Using the same algorithm, in reverse, we can165quickly show the direct and indirect influenceclusters of each key opinion leader.Figure 2.
Social Network Influence Analysis3.3 The monitoring methodology of agenda-tendencyIn the web-society, the system architecture ofmonitoring and identifying on vast web reviews isone thing, being aware of when to start the riskcontrol action plan is another story.
We develop 3different forms of analysis charts?
long termaverage moving line?tendency line?1-day, 7-dayand monthly average moving line.
For example,the moment when the 1-day moving average line ishigher than the 7-day moving average line, itmeans the undiscovered issue is going to beoutburst shortly, and it is the time the authority totake action dealing with the consequences.
Onenews report reconfirmed that a wrong manipulatedmarketing promotion program using an ?iPhone5?smart-phone as its complementary gift and wasshown on the analysis chart 9 days before itrevealed on the television news causing thecompany?s reputation being damaged badly.4 PRATICAL EXAMPLETo make our proposed scheme into practice,corresponding systems are applying in thefollowing example.
S.E.R.
plays an important roleto support the enterprise, government and publicsociety.4.1 Food-safety Related IssuesS.E.R.
research and development team built up theDEPH [di(2-ethylhexyl)phthalate] searchingwebsite within 2 days and made an officiallyannouncement in June.
1st, 2011 under thepressure of the outbreak of Taiwan?s foodcontamination storm, which in general estimatedcausing NT$10,000 million approximately profitlost in Taiwan?s food industry.
This DEPH websitewas to use the S.E.R.
technology not only tocollect 5 authorities?
data (Food and DrugAdministration of Health Department in ExecutiveYuan, Taipei City government) 24 hours a day butalso gathering 3 news portals?Google, Yahoo,and UDN, 303 web online the latest newsinformation approx., allowed every personal couldinstantly check whether their everyday food/drinkhas or failed passing the toxin examination bysimply key-in any related words (jelly, orangejuice, bubble tea).
This website was highlyrecommended by the Ministry of Economic Affairsbecause of it fundamentally eased people?s fear atthe time.4.2 Brand/Product MonitoringA world leading smart phone company applyingthe S.E.R Technology service platform to set up itscustomer relationship management (CRM)platform for identifying the undiscovered product-defects issues, monitoring the web-opinion trendsthat targeting issues between its own andcompetitor?s products/services mostly.
This dataprocessing and analyzing cost was accordinglyestimated saving 70 % cost approximately.4.3 Online to Offline MarketingIn order to develop new business in the word-of-mouth market, Lion Travel which is the biggesttravel agency in Taiwan sat up a branch?Xinmedia?.
The first important thing for a newcompany to enter the word-of-mouth market is toown a sufficient number of experts who can affectmost people?s opinion to advertisers, however, thisis a hard work right now.
S.E.R.
helps Xinmedia toeasily find many traveling opinion leader, andthose leaders can be products spokesperson tomore accurately meet the business needs.
More andmore advertisers agree the importance of the word-of-mouth market, because Xinmedia do createdbetter accomplishments for advertisers?
sales byexperts?
opinion.1665 S.E.R.
DETAIL OPERATIONSIn the following scenario, S.E.R.
monitors morethan twenty smartphone forums.
In Figure 3, thecellphone ?One X?
is getting popular than others.From the news, we know this cellphone isupcoming release to the market and it becomes atopical subject.Figure 3: An example of Word-of-mouth of productsBeyond the products, some details are discussedwith product in a topic.
Thus, we use TF-IDF andfixed keyword to extract the important issue.
Theseissues are coordinated with time slice andgenerated dynamically.
It points out the mostdiscussed issue with the product.
In Figure 4, Inthis case, the ?screen?
issue is raising up after ?ics?
(ice cream sandwich, an android software version)may become the most concern issue that peoplecare about.Figure 4.
An example of hot topicsFor different project, S.E.R.
supports thetraining mode to assist user to train their specificdomain knowledge.
User can easily tag theirimportant keyword to their customized category.With this benefit, we can accept different domainsource and do not afraid data anomaly.
We alsoapply training mechanism automatically if thetagging word arrive the training standard.As shown in Figure 5, top side shows theanalyzed information of whole topic thread.
Wejust show the first post of this thread.
As we cansee, we provide three training mode, Category,Sentiment and Same Problem.
The red word showsthe positive sentiment and blue word shows thenegative sentiment respectively.
The special case isthe ?Same Problem?.
In forum, some author mayjust type ?+1?, ?me2?, ?me too?
to show they facethe same problem.
Therefore, we have to identifywhat they agreed or what they said.
We solve thisproblem by using the relation between the sameproblem word and its name entity.Figure 5: Training Mode ?
S.E.R.
supports categorytraining, sentiment training and same problem trainingTo senior manager, they may not spend times ondetail issue.
S.E.R.
provides a quick summary ofrelevant issue into a cluster and shows a ratio toindicate which issue is important.Figure 6.
Quick Summary ?
Software relevant issues6 ConclusionsIn this networked era, known social issues getmonitored and analyzed over the Net.
Informationgathering and analysis over Internet have become167so important for efficient and effective responsesto social events.
S.E.R technology is an Internetmining technology that detects monitors andanalyzes more than Net-related social incidents.An impending event that?s not yet attracted anyattention, regardless of whether of known nature orof undetermined characteristic, gets lit up on theS.E.R radar screen ?
provided a relevant set ofdetection conditions are set in the S.E.R engine.S.E.R technology, like its related conventionalcounterparts, is certainly capable for monitoringand analyzing commercial and social, publicevents.
It is the idea ?to detect something uncertainout there?
that distinguishes S.E.R from others.It is also the same idea that is potentiallycapable of saving big financially for our society.
Itmay seem to be ?
in fact it is ?
hindsight to talkabout the DEPH food contamination incident ofTaiwan in 2011, discussing how it would havebeen detected using this technology.
But, the?morning-after case analysis?
provides a goodlesson to suggest that additional tests areworthwhile ?
thus the look into another issue offood additives:  the curdlan gum.Certainly there is ?
at this stage ?
not yet anyexample of successful uncovering of impendingevents of significant social impact by thistechnology, but with proper setting of an S.E.Rengine by a set of adequate parameters, the team isconfident that S.E.R will eventually revealsomething astonishing ?
and helpful to our society.7 AcknowledgmentsThis study is conducted under the "SocialIntelligence Analysis Service Platform" project ofthe Institute for Information Industry which issubsidized by the Ministry of Economy Affairs ofthe Republic of China.8 ReferencesHsieh, W.-T., Jay Stu, Chen, Y.-L., Seng-cho TimothyChou.
2009.
A collaborative desktop tagging systemfor group knowledge management based on conceptspace.
Expert Syst.
Appl., 36(5), 9513-9523Wang, J.-C., Chiang, M.-J., Ho, J.-C., Hsieh, W.-T.,Huang, I.-K.. 2007.
Knowing Who to Know inKnowledge Sharing Communities: A Social NetworkAnalysis Approach, In Proceeding of The SeventhInternational Conference on Electronic Business,345-351.Bo, P. and Lillian, L. 2004.
A Sentimental Education:Sentiment Analysis Using SubjectivitySummarization Based on Minimum Cuts.
InProceedings of the 42nd Annual Meeting onAssociation for Computational Linguistics, 271-279.Gill, K. E. 2004.
How can We Measure the Influence ofthe Blogosphere, In Proceedings of the 2ndWorkshop on the Weblogging Ecosystem, 17-22.Gruhl, D., Guha, R., Liben-Nowell, D. and Tomkins, A.2004.
Information Diffusion through Blogspace, InProceedings of the 13th International Conference onWorld Wide Web, 491-501.Rosario, B. and Hearst, M. A.
2004.
ClassifyingSemantic Relations in Bioscience Texts, InProceedings of the 42nd Annual Meeting onAssociation for Computational Linguistics, 430.Song, X., Chi, Y., Hino, K., and Tseng, B. IdentifyingOpinion Leaders in the Blogosphere.
2007.
InProceedings of the 16th ACM conference onConference on Information and KnowledgeManagement, 971-974.Varlamis, I., Vassalos, V., and Palaios, A.
2008.Monitoring the Evolution of Interests in theBlogosphere.
In Proceedings of the 24th InternationalConference on Data Engineering Workshops.Viermetz, M. and Skubacz, M. 2007.
Using TopicDiscovery to Segment Large Communication Graphsfor Social Network Analysis, In Proceedings of theIEEE/WIC/ACM International Conference on WebIntelligence, 95-99.Wang, C., Zhang, M., Ru, L., and Ma, S. 2008.Automatic Online News Topic Ranking Using MediaFocus and User Attention based on Aging Theory, InProceeding of the 17th ACM Conference onInformation and Knowledge Management, 1033-1042.Yoon, S.-H., Shin, J.-H., Kim, S.-W., and Park, S. 2009.Extraction of a Latent Blog Community based onSubject, In Proceeding of the 18th ACM Conferenceon Information and Knowledge Management, 1529-1532.Yu, H and Hatzivassiloglou, V. 2003.
TowardsAnswering Opinion Questions: Separating Facts fromOpinions and Identifying the Polarity of OpinionSentences, In Proceedings of the 2003 Conference onEmpirical Methods in Natural Language Processing -Volume 10, 129-136.168
