Proceedings of the 50th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics, pages 892?901,Jeju, Republic of Korea, 8-14 July 2012. c?2012 Association for Computational LinguisticsYou Had Me at Hello: How Phrasing Affects MemorabilityCristian Danescu-Niculescu-Mizil Justin Cheng Jon Kleinberg Lillian LeeDepartment of Computer ScienceCornell Universitycristian@cs.cornell.edu, jc882@cornell.edu, kleinber@cs.cornell.edu, llee@cs.cornell.eduAbstractUnderstanding the ways in which informationachieves widespread public awareness is a re-search question of significant interest.
Weconsider whether, and how, the way in whichthe information is phrased ?
the choice ofwords and sentence structure ?
can affect thisprocess.
To this end, we develop an analy-sis framework and build a corpus of moviequotes, annotated with memorability informa-tion, in which we are able to control for boththe speaker and the setting of the quotes.
Wefind that there are significant differences be-tween memorable and non-memorable quotesin several key dimensions, even after control-ling for situational and contextual factors.
Oneis lexical distinctiveness: in aggregate, memo-rable quotes use less common word choices,but at the same time are built upon a scaf-folding of common syntactic patterns.
An-other is that memorable quotes tend to be moregeneral in ways that make them easy to ap-ply in new contexts ?
that is, more portable.We also show how the concept of ?memorablelanguage?
can be extended across domains.1 Hello.
My name is Inigo Montoya.Understanding what items will be retained in thepublic consciousness, and why, is a question of fun-damental interest in many domains, including mar-keting, politics, entertainment, and social media; aswe all know, many items barely register, whereasothers catch on and take hold in many people?sminds.An active line of recent computational work hasemployed a variety of perspectives on this question.Building on a foundation in the sociology of diffu-sion [27, 31], researchers have explored the ways inwhich network structure affects the way informationspreads, with domains of interest including blogs[1, 11], email [37], on-line commerce [22], and so-cial media [2, 28, 33, 38].
There has also been recentresearch addressing temporal aspects of how differ-ent media sources convey information [23, 30, 39]and ways in which people react differently to infor-mation on different topics [28, 36].Beyond all these factors, however, one?s everydayexperience with these domains suggests that the wayin which a piece of information is expressed ?
thechoice of words, the way it is phrased ?
might alsohave a fundamental effect on the extent to which ittakes hold in people?s minds.
Concepts that attainwide reach are often carried in messages such aspolitical slogans, marketing phrases, or aphorismswhose language seems intuitively to be memorable,?catchy,?
or otherwise compelling.Our first challenge in exploring this hypothesis isto develop a notion of ?successful?
language that isprecise enough to allow for quantitative evaluation.We also face the challenge of devising an evaluationsetting that separates the phrasing of a message fromthe conditions in which it was delivered ?
highly-cited quotes tend to have been delivered under com-pelling circumstances or fit an existing cultural, po-litical, or social narrative, and potentially what ap-peals to us about the quote is really just its invoca-tion of these extra-linguistic contexts.
Is the formof the language adding an effect beyond or indepen-dent of these (obviously very crucial) factors?
Toinvestigate the question, one needs a way of control-892ling ?
as much as possible ?
for the role that thesurrounding context of the language plays.The present work (i): Evaluating language-basedmemorability Defining what makes an utterancememorable is subtle, and scholars in several do-mains have written about this question.
There isa rough consensus that an appropriate definitioninvolves elements of both recognition ?
peopleshould be able to retain the quote and recognize itwhen they hear it invoked ?
and production ?
peo-ple should be motivated to refer to it in relevant sit-uations [15].
One suggested reason for why somememes succeed is their ability to provoke emotions[16].
Alternatively, memorable quotes can be goodfor expressing the feelings, mood, or situation of anindividual, a group, or a culture (the zeitgeist): ?Cer-tain quotes exquisitely capture the mood or feelingwe wish to communicate to someone.
We hear them... and store them away for future use?
[10].None of these observations, however, serve asdefinitions, and indeed, we believe it desirable tonot pre-commit to an abstract definition, but ratherto adopt an operational formulation based on exter-nal human judgments.
In designing our study, wefocus on a domain in which (i) there is rich use oflanguage, some of which has achieved deep culturalpenetration; (ii) there already exist a large number ofexternal human judgments ?
perhaps implicit, butin a form we can extract; and (iii) we can control forthe setting in which the text was used.Specifically, we use the complete scripts ofroughly 1000 movies, representing diverse genres,eras, and levels of popularity, and consider whichlines are the most ?memorable?.
To acquire memo-rability labels, for each sentence in each script, wedetermine whether it has been listed as a ?memo-rable quote?
by users of the widely-known IMDb(the Internet Movie Database), and also estimate thenumber of times it appears on the Web.
Both of theseserve as memorability metrics for our purposes.When we evaluate properties of memorablequotes, we compare them with quotes that are not as-sessed as memorable, but were spoken by the samecharacter, at approximately the same point in thesame movie.
This enables us to control in a fairlyfine-grained way for the confounding effects of con-text discussed above: we can observe differencesthat persist even after taking into account both thespeaker and the setting.In a pilot validation study, we find that humansubjects are effective at recognizing the more IMDb-memorable of two quotes, even for movies they havenot seen.
This motivates a search for features in-trinsic to the text of quotes that signal memorabil-ity.
In fact, comments provided by the human sub-jects as part of the task suggested two basic formsthat such textual signals could take: subjects felt that(i) memorable quotes often involve a distinctive turnof phrase; and (ii) memorable quotes tend to invokegeneral themes that aren?t tied to the specific settingthey came from, and hence can be more easily in-voked for future (out of context) uses.
We test bothof these principles in our analysis of the data.The present work (ii): What distinguishes mem-orable quotes Under the controlled-comparisonsetting sketched above, we find that memorablequotes exhibit significant differences from non-memorable quotes in several fundamental respects,and these differences in the data reinforce the twomain principles from the human pilot study.
First,we show a concrete sense in which memorablequotes are indeed distinctive: with respect to lexi-cal language models trained on the newswire por-tions of the Brown corpus [21], memorable quoteshave significantly lower likelihood than their non-memorable counterparts.
Interestingly, this distinc-tiveness takes place at the level of words, but notat the level of other syntactic features: the part-of-speech composition of memorable quotes is in factmore likely with respect to newswire.
Thus, we canthink of memorable quotes as consisting, in an ag-gregate sense, of unusual word choices built on ascaffolding of common part-of-speech patterns.We also identify a number of ways in which mem-orable quotes convey greater generality.
In their pat-terns of verb tenses, personal pronouns, and deter-miners, memorable quotes are structured so as to bemore ?free-standing,?
containing fewer markers thatindicate references to nearby text.Memorable quotes differ in other interesting as-pects as well, such as sound distributions.Our analysis of memorable movie quotes suggestsa framework by which the memorability of text ina range of different domains could be investigated.893We provide evidence that such cross-domain prop-erties may hold, guided by one of our motivatingapplications in marketing.
In particular, we analyzea corpus of advertising slogans, and we show thatthese slogans have significantly greater likelihoodat both the word level and the part-of-speech levelwith respect to a language model trained on mem-orable movie quotes, compared to a correspondinglanguage model trained on non-memorable moviequotes.
This suggests that some of the principles un-derlying memorable text have the potential to applyacross different areas.Roadmap ?2 lays the empirical foundations of ourwork: the design and creation of our movie-quotesdataset, which we make publicly available (?2.1), apilot study with human subjects validating IMDb-based memorability labels (?2.2), and further studyof incorporating search-engine counts (?2.3).
?3 de-tails our analysis and prediction experiments, usingboth movie-quotes data and, as an exploration ofcross-domain applicability, slogans data.
?4 surveysrelated work across a variety of fields.
?5 brieflysummarizes and indicates some future directions.2 I?m ready for my close-up.2.1 DataTo study the properties of memorable movie quotes,we need a source of movie lines and a designationof memorability.
Following [8], we constructed acorpus consisting of all lines from roughly 1000movies, varying in genre, era, and popularity; foreach movie, we then extracted the list of quotes fromIMDb?s Memorable Quotes page corresponding tothe movie.1A memorable quote in IMDb can appear either asan individual sentence spoken by one character, oras a multi-sentence line, or as a block of dialogue in-volving multiple characters.
In the latter two cases,it can be hard to determine which particular portionis viewed as memorable (some involve a build-up toa punch line; others involve the follow-through aftera well-phrased opening sentence), and so we focusin our comparisons on those memorable quotes that1This extraction involved some edit-distance-based align-ment, since the exact form of the line in the script can exhibitminor differences from the version typed into IMDb.1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10Decile0100200300400500600700800Number of memorable quotesFigure 1: Location of memorable quotes in each decileof movie scripts (the first 10th, the second 10th, etc.
),summed over all movies.
The same qualitative resultshold if we discard each movie?s very first and last line,which might have privileged status.appear as a single sentence rather than a multi-lineblock.2We now formulate a task that we can use to eval-uate the features of memorable quotes.
Recall thatour goal is to identify effects based in the languageof the quotes themselves, beyond any factors arisingfrom the speaker or context.
Thus, for each (single-sentence) memorable quote M , we identify a non-memorable quote that is as similar as possible to Min all characteristics but the choice of words.
Thismeans we want it to be spoken by the same charac-ter in the same movie.
It also means that we wantit to have the same length: controlling for length isimportant because we expect that on average, shorterquotes will be easier to remember than long quotes,and that wouldn?t be an interesting textual effect toreport.
Moreover, we also want to control for thefact that a quote?s position in a movie can affectmemorability: certain scenes produce more mem-orable dialogue, and as Figure 1 demonstrates, inaggregate memorable quotes also occur dispropor-tionately near the beginnings and especially the endsof movies.
In summary, then, for each M , we pick acontrasting (single-sentence) quote N from the samemovie that is as close in the script as possible to M(either before or after it), subject to the conditionsthat (i) M and N are uttered by the same speaker,(ii) M and N have the same number of words, and(iii) N does not occur in the IMDb list of memorable2We also ran experiments relaxing the single-sentence as-sumption, which allows for stricter scene control and a largerdataset but complicates comparisons involving syntax.
Thenon-syntax results were in line with those reported here.894Movie First Quote Second QuoteJackie Brown Half a million dollars will always be missed.
I know the type, trust me on this.Star Trek: Nemesis I think it?s time to try some unsafe velocities.
No cold feet, or any other parts of ouranatomy.Ordinary People A little advice about feelings kiddo; don?t ex-pect it always to tickle.I mean there?s someone besides yourmother you?ve got to forgive.Table 1: Three example pairs of movie quotes.
Each pair satisfies our criteria: the two component quotes are spokenclose together in the movie by the same character, have the same length, and one is labeled memorable by the IMDbwhile the other is not.
(Contractions such as ?it?s?
count as two words.
)quotes for the movie (either as a single line or as partof a larger block).Given such pairs, we formulate a pairwise com-parison task: given M and N , determine which isthe memorable quote.
Psychological research onsubjective evaluation [35], as well as initial experi-ments using ourselves as subjects, indicated that thispairwise set-up easier to work with than simply pre-senting a single sentence and asking whether it ismemorable or not; the latter requires agreement onan ?absolute?
criterion for memorability that is veryhard to impose consistently, whereas the former sim-ply requires a judgment that one quote is more mem-orable than another.Our main dataset, available at http://www.cs.cornell.edu/?cristian/memorability.html,3 thus con-sists of approximately 2200 such (M,N) pairs, sep-arated by a median of 5 same-character lines in thescript.
The reader can get a sense for the nature ofthe data from the three examples in Table 1.We now discuss two further aspects to the formu-lation of the experiment: a preliminary pilot studyinvolving human subjects, and the incorporation ofsearch engine counts into the data.2.2 Pilot study: Human performanceAs a preliminary consideration, we did a small pilotstudy to see if humans can distinguish memorablefrom non-memorable quotes, assuming our IMDB-induced labels as gold standard.
Six subjects, all na-tive speakers of English and none an author of thispaper, were presented with 11 or 12 pairs of mem-orable vs. non-memorable quotes; again, we con-trolled for extra-textual effects by ensuring that ineach pair the two quotes come from the same movie,are by the same character, have the same length, and3Also available there: other examples and factoids.subject number of matches withIMDb-induced annotationA 11/11 = 100%B 11/12 = 92%C 9/11 = 82%D 8/11 = 73%E 7/11 = 64%F 7/12 = 58%macro avg ?
78%Table 2: Human pilot study: number of matches toIMDb-induced annotation, ordered by decreasing matchpercentage.
For the null hypothesis of random guessing,these results are statistically significant, p < 2?6 ?
.016.appear as nearly as possible in the same scene.4 Theorder of quotes within pairs was randomized.
Im-portantly, because we wanted to understand whetherthe language of the quotes by itself contains signalsabout memorability, we chose quotes from moviesthat the subjects said they had not seen.
(This meansthat each subject saw a different set of quotes.
)Moreover, the subjects were requested not to consultany external sources of information.5 The reader iswelcome to try a demo version of the task at http://www.cs.cornell.edu/?cristian/memorability.html.Table 2 shows that all the subjects performed(sometimes much) better than chance, and againstthe null hypothesis that all subjects are guessing ran-domly, the results are statistically significant, p <2?6 ?
.016.
These preliminary findings provide ev-idence for the validity of our task: despite the appar-ent difficulty of the job, even humans who haven?tseen the movie in question can recover our IMDb-4In this pilot study, we allowed multi-sentence quotes.5We did not use crowd-sourcing because we saw no way toensure that this condition would be obeyed by arbitrary subjects.We do note, though, that after our research was completed andas of Apr.
26, 2012, ?
11,300 people completed the online test:average accuracy: 72%, mode number correct: 9/12.895induced labels with some reliability.62.3 Incorporating search engine countsThus far we have discussed a dataset in which mem-orability is determined through an explicit label-ing drawn from the IMDb.
Given the ?produc-tion?
aspect of memorability discussed in ?1, weshould also expect that memorable quotes will tendto appear more extensively on Web pages than non-memorable quotes; note that incorporating this in-sight makes it possible to use the (implicit) judg-ments of a much larger number of people than arerepresented by the IMDb database.
It thereforemakes sense to try using search-engine result countsas a second indication of memorability.We experimented with several ways of construct-ing memorability information from search-enginecounts, but this proved challenging.
Searching fora quote as a stand-alone phrase runs into the prob-lem that a number of quotes are also sentences thatpeople use without the movie in mind, and so highcounts for such quotes do not testify to the phrase?sstatus as a memorable quote from the movie.
Onthe other hand, searching for the quote in a Booleanconjunction with the movie?s title discards most ofthese uses, but also eliminates a large fraction ofthe appearances on the Web that we want to find:precisely because memorable quotes tend to havewidespread cultural usage, people generally don?tfeel the need to include the movie?s title when in-voking them.
Finally, since we are dealing withroughly 1000 movies, the result counts vary over anenormous range, from recent blockbusters to movieswith relatively small fan bases.In the end, we found that it was more effective touse the result counts in conjunction with the IMDblabels, so that the counts played the role of an ad-ditional filter rather than a free-standing numericalvalue.
Thus, for each pair (M,N) produced usingthe IMDb methodology above, we searched for eachof M and N as quoted expressions in a Boolean con-junction with the title of the movie.
We then keptonly those pairs for which M (i) produced more thanfive results in our (quoted, conjoined) search, and (ii)produced at least twice as many results as the cor-6The average accuracy being below 100% reinforces thatcontext is very important, too.responding search for N .
We created a version ofthis filtered dataset using each of Google and Bing,and all the main findings were consistent with theresults on the IMDb-only dataset.
Thus, in what fol-lows, we will focus on the main IMDb-only dataset,discussing the relationship to the dataset filtered bysearch engine counts where relevant (in which casewe will refer to the +Google dataset).3 Never send a human to do a machine?s job.We now discuss experiments that investigate the hy-potheses discussed in ?1.
In particular, we devisemethods that can assess the distinctiveness and gen-erality hypotheses and test whether there exists a no-tion of ?memorable language?
that operates acrossdomains.
In addition, we evaluate and compare thepredictive power of these hypotheses.3.1 DistinctivenessOne of the hypotheses we examine is whether theuse of language in memorable quotes is to some ex-tent unusual.
In order to quantify the level of dis-tinctiveness of a quote, we take a language-modelapproach: we model ?common language?
usingthe newswire sections of the Brown corpus [21]7,and evaluate how distinctive a quote is by evaluat-ing its likelihood with respect to this model ?
thelower the likelihood, the more distinctive.
In or-der to assess different levels of lexical and syntacticdistinctiveness, we employ a total of six Laplace-smoothed8 language models: 1-gram, 2-gram, and3-gram word LMs and 1-gram, 2-gram and 3-grampart-of-speech9 LMs.We find strong evidence that from a lexical per-spective, memorable quotes are more distinctivethan their non-memorable counterparts.
As indi-cated in Table 3, for each of our lexical ?commonlanguage?
models, in about 60% of the quote pairs,the memorable quote is more distinctive.Interestingly, the reverse is true when it comes to7Results were qualitatively similar if we used the fiction por-tions.
The age of the Brown corpus makes it less likely to con-tain modern movie quotes.8We employ Laplace (additive) smoothing with a smoothingparameter of 0.2.
The language models?
vocabulary was that ofthe entire training corpus.9Throughout we obtain part-of-speech tags by using theNLTK maximum entropy tagger with default parameters.896?common language?modelIMDb-only +Googlelexical1-gram 61.13%???
59.21%??
?2-gram 59.22%???
57.03%??
?3-gram 59.81%???
58.32%??
?syntactic1-gram 43.60%???
44.77%??
?2-gram 48.31% 47.84%3-gram 50.91% 50.92%Table 3: Distinctiveness: percentage of quote pairsin which the the memorable quote is more distinctivethan the non-memorable one according to the respec-tive ?common language?
model.
Significance accord-ing to a two-tailed sign test is indicated using *-notation(???=?p<.001?
).syntax: memorable quotes appear to follow the syn-tactic patterns of ?common language?
as closely asor more closely than non-memorable quotes.
To-gether, these results suggest that memorable quotesconsist of unusual word sequences built on commonsyntactic scaffolding.3.2 GeneralityAnother of our hypotheses is that memorable quotesare easier to use outside the specific context in whichthey were uttered ?
that is, more ?portable?
?
andtherefore exhibit fewer terms that refer to those set-tings.
We use the following syntactic properties asproxies for the generality of a quote:?
Fewer 3rd-person pronouns, since these com-monly refer to a person or object that was intro-duced earlier in the discourse.
Utterances thatemploy fewer such pronouns are easier to adaptto new contexts, and so will be considered moregeneral.?
More indefinite articles like a and an, sincethey are more likely to refer to general conceptsthan definite articles.
Quotes with more indefi-nite articles will be considered more general.?
Fewer past tense verbs and more presenttense verbs, since the former are more likelyto refer to specific previous events.
Thereforeutterances that employ fewer past tense verbs(and more present tense verbs) will be consid-ered more general.Table 4 gives the results for each of these fourmetrics ?
in each case, we show the percentage ofGenerality metric IMDb-only +Googlefewer 3rd pers.
pronouns 64.37%???
62.93%??
?more indef.
article 57.21%???
58.23%??
?less past tense 57.91%???
59.74%??
?more present tense 54.60%???
55.86%??
?Table 4: Generality: percentage of quote pairs in whichthe memorable quote is more general than the non-memorable ones according to the respective metric.
Pairswhere the metric does not distinguish between the quotesare not considered.quote pairs for which the memorable quote scoresbetter on the generality metric.Note that because the issue of generality is a com-plex one for which there is no straightforward singlemetric, our approach here is based on several prox-ies for generality, considered independently; yet, asthe results show, all of these point in a consistentdirection.
It is an interesting open question to de-velop richer ways of assessing whether a quote hasgreater generality, in the sense that people intuitivelyattribute to memorable quotes.3.3 ?Memorable?
language beyond moviesOne of the motivating questions in our analysisis whether there are general principles underlying?memorable language.?
The results thus far suggestpotential families of such principles.
A further ques-tion in this direction is whether the notion of mem-orability can be extended across different domains,and for this we collected (and distribute on our web-site) 431 phrases that were explicitly designed tobe memorable: advertising slogans (e.g., ?Qualitynever goes out of style.?).
The focus on slogans isalso in keeping with one of the initial motivationsin studying memorability, namely, marketing appli-cations ?
in other words, assessing whether a pro-posed slogan has features that are consistent withmemorable text.The fact that it?s not clear how to construct a col-lection of ?non-memorable?
counterparts to slogansappears to pose a technical challenge.
However, wecan still use a language-modeling approach to as-sess whether the textual properties of the slogans arecloser to the memorable movie quotes (as one wouldconjecture) or to the non-memorable movie quotes.Specifically, we train one language model on memo-rable quotes and another on non-memorable quotes897(Non)memorablelanguage modelsSlogans Newswirelexical1-gram 56.15%??
33.77%??
?2-gram 51.51% 25.15%??
?3-gram 52.44% 28.89%??
?syntactic1-gram 73.09%???
68.27%??
?2-gram 64.04%???
50.21%3-gram 62.88%???
55.09%??
?Table 5: Cross-domain concept of ?memorable?
lan-guage: percentage of slogans that have higher likelihoodunder the memorable language model than under the non-memorable one (for each of the six language models con-sidered).
Rightmost column: for reference, the percent-age of newswire sentences that have higher likelihood un-der the memorable language model than under the non-memorable one.Generality metric slogans mem.
n-mem.% 3rd pers.
pronouns 2.14% 2.16% 3.41%% indefinite articles 2.68% 2.63% 2.06%% past tense 14.60% 21.13% 26.69%Table 6: Slogans are most general when compared tomemorable and non-memorable quotes.
(%s of 3rd pers.pronouns and indefinite articles are relative to all tokens,%s of past tense are relative to all past and present verbs.
)and compare how likely each slogan is to be pro-duced according to these two models.
As shown inthe middle column of Table 5, we find that slogansare better predicted both lexically and syntacticallyby the former model.
This result thus offers evi-dence for a concept of ?memorable language?
thatcan be applied beyond a single domain.We also note that the higher likelihood of slogansunder a ?memorable language?
model is not simplyoccurring for the trivial reason that this model pre-dicts all other large bodies of text better.
In partic-ular, the newswire section of the Brown corpus ispredicted better at the lexical level by the languagemodel trained on non-memorable quotes.Finally, Table 6 shows that slogans employ gen-eral language, in the sense that for each of ourgenerality metrics, we see a slogans/memorable-quotes/non-memorable quotes spectrum.3.4 Prediction taskWe now show how the principles discussed abovecan provide features for a basic prediction task, cor-responding to the task in our human pilot study:given a pair of quotes, identify the memorable one.Our first formulation of the prediction task usesa standard bag-of-words model10.
If there wereno information in the textual content of a quoteto determine whether it were memorable, then anSVM employing bag-of-words features should per-form no better than chance.
Instead, though, it ob-tains 59.67% (10-fold cross-validation) accuracy, asshown in Table 7.
We then develop models usingfeatures based on the measures formulated earlierin this section: generality measures (the four listedin Table 4); distinctiveness measures (likelihood ac-cording to 1, 2, and 3-gram ?common language?models at the lexical and part-of-speech level foreach quote in the pair, their differences, and pair-wise comparisons between them); and similarity-to-slogans measures (likelihood according to 1, 2,and 3-gram slogan-language models at the lexicaland part-of-speech level for each quote in the pair,their differences, and pairwise comparisons betweenthem).Even a relatively small number of distinctive-ness features, on their own, improve significantlyover the much larger bag-of-words model.
Whenwe include additional features based on generalityand language-model features measuring similarity toslogans, the performance improves further (last lineof Table 7).Thus, the main conclusion from these predictiontasks is that abstracting notions such as distinctive-ness and generality can produce relatively stream-lined models that outperform much heavier-weightbag-of-words models, and can suggest steps towardapproaching the performance of human judges who?
very much unlike our system ?
have the full cul-tural context in which movies occur at their disposal.3.5 Other characteristicsWe also made some auxiliary observations that maybe of interest.
Specifically, we find differences in let-ter and sound distribution (e.g., memorable quotes?
after curse-word removal ?
use significantlymore ?front sounds?
(labials or front vowels suchas represented by the letter i) and significantly fewer?back sounds?
such as the one represented by u),1110We discarded terms appearing fewer than 10 times.11These findings may relate to marketing research on soundsymbolism [7, 19, 40].898Feature set # feats Accuracybag of words 962 59.67%distinctiveness 24 62.05%?generality 4 56.70%slogan sim.
24 58.30%all three types together 52 64.27%?
?Table 7: Prediction: SVM 10-fold cross validation resultsusing the respective feature sets.
Random baseline accu-racy is 50%.
Accuracies statistically significantly greaterthan bag-of-words according to a two-tailed t-test are in-dicated with *(p<.05) and **(p<.01).word complexity (e.g., memorable quotes use wordswith significantly more syllables) and phrase com-plexity (e.g., memorable quotes use fewer coordi-nating conjunctions).
The latter two are in line withour distinctiveness hypothesis.4 A long time ago, in a galaxy far, far awayHow an item?s linguistic form affects the reaction itgenerates has been studied in several contexts, in-cluding evaluations of product reviews [9], politicalspeeches [12], on-line posts [13], scientific papers[14], and retweeting of Twitter posts [36].
We usea different set of features, abstracting the notions ofdistinctiveness and generality, in order to focus onthese higher-level aspects of phrasing rather than onparticular lower-level features.Related to our interest in distinctiveness, work inadvertising research has studied the effect of syntac-tic complexity on recognition and recall of slogans[5, 6, 24].
There may also be connections to VonRestorff?s isolation effect Hunt [17], which assertsthat when all but one item in a list are similar in someway, memory for the different item is enhanced.Related to our interest in generality, Knapp et al[20] surveyed subjects regarding memorable mes-sages or pieces of advice they had received, findingthat the ability to be applied to multiple concrete sit-uations was an important factor.Memorability, although distinct from ?memoriz-ability?, relates to short- and long-term recall.
Thornand Page [34] survey sub-lexical, lexical, and se-mantic attributes affecting short-term memorabilityof lexical items.
Studies of verbatim recall have alsoconsidered the task of distinguishing an exact quotefrom close paraphrases [3].
Investigations of long-term recall have included studies of culturally signif-icant passages of text [29] and findings regarding theeffect of rhetorical devices of alliterative [4], ?rhyth-mic, poetic, and thematic constraints?
[18, 26].Finally, there are complex connections betweenhumor and memory [32], which may lead to interac-tions with computational humor recognition [25].5 I think this is the beginning of abeautiful friendship.Motivated by the broad question of what kinds of in-formation achieve widespread public awareness, westudied the the effect of phrasing on a quote?s mem-orability.
A challenge is that quotes differ not onlyin how they are worded, but also in who said themand under what circumstances; to deal with this dif-ficulty, we constructed a controlled corpus of moviequotes in which lines deemed memorable are pairedwith non-memorable lines spoken by the same char-acter at approximately the same point in the samemovie.
After controlling for context and situation,memorable quotes were still found to exhibit, on av-erage (there will always be individual exceptions),significant differences from non-memorable quotesin several important respects, including measurescapturing distinctiveness and generality.
Our ex-periments with slogans show how the principles weidentify can extend to a different domain.Future work may lead to applications in market-ing, advertising and education [4].
Moreover, thesubtle nature of memorability, and its connection toresearch in psychology, suggests a range of furtherresearch directions.
We believe that the frameworkdeveloped here can serve as the basis for furthercomputational studies of the process by which infor-mation takes hold in the public consciousness, andthe role that language effects play in this process.My mother thanks you.
My father thanks you.My sister thanks you.
And I thank you: Re-becca Hwa, Evie Kleinberg, Diana Minculescu, AlexNiculescu-Mizil, Jennifer Smith, Benjamin Zimmer, andthe anonymous reviewers for helpful discussions andcomments; our annotators Steven An, Lars Backstrom,Eric Baumer, Jeff Chadwick, Evie Kleinberg, and MyleOtt; and the makers of Cepacol, Robitussin, and Sudafed,whose products got us through the submission deadline.This paper is based upon work supported in part by NSFgrants IIS-0910664, IIS-1016099, Google, and Yahoo!899References[1] Eytan Adar, Li Zhang, Lada A. Adamic, andRajan M. Lukose.
Implicit structure and thedynamics of blogspace.
In Workshop on theWeblogging Ecosystem, 2004.
[2] Lars Backstrom, Dan Huttenlocher, Jon Klein-berg, and Xiangyang Lan.
Group formationin large social networks: Membership, growth,and evolution.
In Proceedings of KDD, 2006.
[3] Elizabeth Bates, Walter Kintsch, Charles R.Fletcher, and Vittoria Giuliani.
The role ofpronominalization and ellipsis in texts: Somememory experiments.
Journal of ExperimentalPsychology: Human Learning and Memory, 6(6):676?691, 1980.
[4] Frank Boers and Seth Lindstromberg.
Find-ing ways to make phrase-learning feasible: Themnemonic effect of alliteration.
System, 33(2):225?238, 2005.
[5] Samuel D. Bradley and Robert Meeds.Surface-structure transformations and advertis-ing slogans: The case for moderate syntacticcomplexity.
Psychology and Marketing, 19:595?619, 2002.
[6] Robert Chamblee, Robert Gilmore, GloriaThomas, and Gary Soldow.
When copy com-plexity can help ad readership.
Journal of Ad-vertising Research, 33(3):23?23, 1993.
[7] John Colapinto.
Famous names.
The NewYorker, pages 38?43, 2011.
[8] Cristian Danescu-Niculescu-Mizil and LillianLee.
Chameleons in imagined conversations:A new approach to understanding coordinationof linguistic style in dialogs.
In Proceedingsof the Workshop on Cognitive Modeling andComputational Linguistics, 2011.
[9] Cristian Danescu-Niculescu-Mizil, GueorgiKossinets, Jon Kleinberg, and Lillian Lee.How opinions are received by online commu-nities: A case study on Amazon.com helpful-ness votes.
In Proceedings of WWW, pages141?150, 2009.
[10] Stuart Fischoff, Esmeralda Cardenas, AngelaHernandez, Korey Wyatt, Jared Young, andRachel Gordon.
Popular movie quotes: Re-flections of a people and a culture.
In AnnualConvention of the American Psychological As-sociation, 2000.
[11] Daniel Gruhl, R. Guha, David Liben-Nowell,and Andrew Tomkins.
Information diffusionthrough blogspace.
Proceedings of WWW,pages 491?501, 2004.
[12] Marco Guerini, Carlo Strapparava, andOliviero Stock.
Trusting politicians?
words(for persuasive NLP).
In Proceedings ofCICLing, pages 263?274, 2008.
[13] Marco Guerini, Carlo Strapparava, and Go?zdeO?zbal.
Exploring text virality in social net-works.
In Proceedings of ICWSM (poster),2011.
[14] Marco Guerini, Alberto Pepe, and BrunoLepri.
Do linguistic style and readability ofscientific abstracts affect their virality?
In Pro-ceedings of ICWSM, 2012.
[15] Richard Jackson Harris, Abigail J. Werth,Kyle E. Bures, and Chelsea M. Bartel.
Socialmovie quoting: What, why, and how?
CienciasPsicologicas, 2(1):35?45, 2008.
[16] Chip Heath, Chris Bell, and Emily Steinberg.Emotional selection in memes: The case ofurban legends.
Journal of Personality, 81(6):1028?1041, 2001.
[17] R. Reed Hunt.
The subtlety of distinctiveness:What von Restorff really did.
PsychonomicBulletin & Review, 2(1):105?112, 1995.
[18] Ira E. Hyman Jr. and David C. Rubin.
Mem-orabeatlia: A naturalistic study of long-termmemory.
Memory & Cognition, 18(2):205?214, 1990.
[19] Richard R. Klink.
Creating brand names withmeaning: The use of sound symbolism.
Mar-keting Letters, 11(1):5?20, 2000.
[20] Mark L. Knapp, Cynthia Stohl, and Kath-leen K. Reardon.
?Memorable?
mes-sages.
Journal of Communication, 31(4):27?41, 1981.
[21] Henry Kuc?era and W. Nelson Francis.
Compu-tational analysis of present-day American En-glish.
Dartmouth Publishing Group, 1967.900[22] Jure Leskovec, Lada Adamic, and BernardoHuberman.
The dynamics of viral market-ing.
ACM Transactions on the Web, 1(1), May2007.
[23] Jure Leskovec, Lars Backstrom, and Jon Klein-berg.
Meme-tracking and the dynamics of thenews cycle.
In Proceedings of KDD, pages497?506, 2009.
[24] Tina M. Lowrey.
The relation betweenscript complexity and commercial memorabil-ity.
Journal of Advertising, 35(3):7?15, 2006.
[25] Rada Mihalcea and Carlo Strapparava.
Learn-ing to laugh (automatically): Computationalmodels for humor recognition.
ComputationalIntelligence, 22(2):126?142, 2006.
[26] Milman Parry and Adam Parry.
The making ofHomeric verse: The collected papers of Mil-man Parry.
Clarendon Press, Oxford, 1971.
[27] Everett Rogers.
Diffusion of Innovations.
FreePress, fourth edition, 1995.
[28] Daniel M. Romero, Brendan Meeder, and JonKleinberg.
Differences in the mechanics ofinformation diffusion across topics: Idioms,political hashtags, and complex contagion onTwitter.
Proceedings of WWW, pages 695?704,2011.
[29] David C. Rubin.
Very long-term memory forprose and verse.
Journal of Verbal Learningand Verbal Behavior, 16(5):611?621, 1977.
[30] Nathan Schneider, Rebecca Hwa, Philip Gi-anfortoni, Dipanjan Das, Michael Heilman,Alan W. Black, Frederick L. Crabbe, andNoah A. Smith.
Visualizing topical quotationsover time to understand news discourse.
Tech-nical Report CMU-LTI-01-103, CMU, 2010.
[31] David Strang and Sarah Soule.
Diffusion in or-ganizations and social movements: From hy-brid corn to poison pills.
Annual Review of So-ciology, 24:265?290, 1998.
[32] Hannah Summerfelt, Louis Lippman, andIra E. Hyman Jr.
The effect of humor on mem-ory: Constrained by the pun.
The Journal ofGeneral Psychology, 137(4), 2010.
[33] Eric Sun, Itamar Rosenn, Cameron Marlow,and Thomas M. Lento.
Gesundheit!
Model-ing contagion through Facebook News Feed.
InProceedings of ICWSM, 2009.
[34] Annabel Thorn and Mike Page.
InteractionsBetween Short-Term and Long-Term Memoryin the Verbal Domain.
Psychology Press, 2009.
[35] Louis L. Thurstone.
A law of comparativejudgment.
Psychological Review, 34(4):273?286, 1927.
[36] Oren Tsur and Ari Rappoport.
What?s ina Hashtag?
Content based prediction of thespread of ideas in microblogging communities.In Proceedings of WSDM, 2012.
[37] Fang Wu, Bernardo A. Huberman, Lada A.Adamic, and Joshua R. Tyler.
Information flowin social groups.
Physica A: Statistical andTheoretical Physics, 337(1-2):327?335, 2004.
[38] Shaomei Wu, Jake M. Hofman, Winter A. Ma-son, and Duncan J. Watts.
Who says what towhom on Twitter.
In Proceedings of WWW,2011.
[39] Jaewon Yang and Jure Leskovec.
Patterns oftemporal variation in online media.
In Pro-ceedings of WSDM, 2011.
[40] Eric Yorkston and Geeta Menon.
A sound idea:Phonetic effects of brand names on consumerjudgments.
Journal of Consumer Research, 31(1):43?51, 2004.901
