Tutorial Abstracts of ACL 2012, page 1,Jeju, Republic of Korea, 8 July 2012. c?2012 Association for Computational LinguisticsQualitative Modeling of Spatial Prepositions and Motion ExpressionsInderjeet ManiChildren?s Organization ofSoutheast AsiaThailandinderjeet.mani@gmail.comJames PustejovskyComputer Science DepartmentBrandeis UniversityWaltham, MA USAjamesp@cs.brandeis.eduThe ability to understand spatial prepositions andmotion in natural language will enable a variety ofnew applications involving systems that can respondto verbal directions, map travel guides, display in-cident reports, etc., providing for enhanced infor-mation extraction, question-answering, informationretrieval, and more principled text to scene render-ing.
Until now, however, the semantics of spatial re-lations and motion verbs has been highly problem-atic.
This tutorial presents a new approach to thesemantics of spatial descriptions and motion expres-sions based on linguistically interpreted qualitativereasoning.
Our approach allows for formal inferencefrom spatial descriptions in natural language, whileleveraging annotation schemes for time, space, andmotion, along with machine learning from annotatedcorpora.
We introduce a compositional semanticsfor motion expressions that integrates spatial primi-tives drawn from qualitative calculi.No previous exposure to the semantics of spatialprepositions or motion verbs is assumed.
The tu-torial will sharpen cross-linguistic intuitions aboutthe interpretation of spatial prepositions and mo-tion constructions.
The attendees will also learnabout qualitative reasoning schemes for static anddynamic spatial information, as well as three annota-tion schemes: TimeML, SpatialML, and ISO-Space,for time, space, and motion, respectively.While both cognitive and formal linguistics haveexamined the meaning of motion verbs and spatialprepositions, these earlier approaches do not yieldprecise computable representations that are expres-sive enough for natural languages.
However, theprevious literature makes it clear that communica-tion of motion relies on imprecise and highly ab-stract geometric descriptions, rather than Euclideanones that specify the coordinates and shapes of ev-ery object.
This property makes these expressionsa fit target for the field of qualitative spatial reason-ing in AI, which has developed a rich set of geomet-ric primitives for representing time, space (includingdistance, orientation, and topological relations), andmotion.
The results of such research have yielded awide variety of spatial and temporal reasoning logicsand tools.
By reviewing these calculi and resources,this tutorial aims to systematically connect qualita-tive reasoning to natural language.Tutorial Schedule:I.
Introduction.
i. Overview of geometric idealiza-tions underlying spatial PPs; ii.
Linguistic patternsof motion verbs across languages; iii.
A qualita-tive model for static spatial descriptions and for pathverbs; iv.
Overview of relevant annotation schemes.II.
Calculi for Qualitative Spatial Reasoning.
i.Semantics of spatial PPs mapped to qualitative spa-tial reasoning; ii.
Qualitative calculi for representingtopological and orientation relations; iii.
Qualitativecalculi to represent motion.III.
Semantics of Motion Expressions.
i. Introduc-tion to Dynamic Interval Temporal Logic (DITL); ii.DITL representations for manner-of-motion verbsand path verbs; iii.
Compositional semantics for mo-tion expressions in DITL, with the spatial primitivesdrawn from qualitative calculi.IV.
Applications and Research Topics.
i. Routenavigation, mapping travel narratives, QA, scenerendering from text, and generating event descrip-tions; ii.
Open issues and further research topics.1
