Proceedings of the 50th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics, pages 1?6,Jeju, Republic of Korea, 8-14 July 2012. c?2012 Association for Computational LinguisticsApplications of GPC Rules and Character Structures in Games forLearning Chinese Characters?Wei-Jie Huang ?Chia-Ru Chou ?Yu-Lin Tzeng ?Chia-Ying Lee ?Chao-Lin Liu?
?National Chengchi University, Taiwan ??
?Academia Sinica, Taiwan?chaolin@nccu.edu.tw, ?chiaying@gate.sinica.edu.twAbstractWe demonstrate applications of psycholin-guistic and sublexical information for learn-ing Chinese characters.
The knowledgeabout the grapheme-phoneme conversion(GPC) rules of languages has been shown tobe highly correlated to the ability of readingalphabetic languages and Chinese.
We buildand will demo a game platform forstrengthening the association of phonologi-cal components in Chinese characters withthe pronunciations of the characters.
Resultsof a preliminary evaluation of our gamesindicated significant improvement in learn-ers?
response times in Chinese namingtasks.
In addition, we construct a Web-based open system for teachers to preparetheir own games to best meet their teachinggoals.
Techniques for decomposing Chinesecharacters and for comparing the similaritybetween Chinese characters were employedto recommend lists of Chinese charactersfor authoring the games.
Evaluation of theauthoring environment with 20 subjectsshowed that our system made the authoringof games more effective and efficient.1 IntroductionLearning to read and write Chinese characters is achallenging task for learners of Chinese.
To readeveryday news articles, one needs to learn thou-sands of Chinese characters.
The official agents inTaiwan and China, respectively, chose 5401 and3755 characters as important basic characters innational standards.
Consequently, the general pub-lic has gained the impression that it is not easy toread Chinese articles, because each of these thou-sands of characters is written in different ways.Teachers adopt various strategies to help learn-ers to memorize Chinese characters.
An instructorat the University of Michigan made up storiesbased on decomposed characters to help studentsremember their formations  (Tao, 2007).
Some takelinguistics-based approaches.
Pictogram is a majorformation of Chinese characters, and radicals carrypartial semantic information about Chinese charac-ters.
Hence, one may use radicals as hints to linkthe meanings and writings of Chinese characters.For instance, ???
(he2, river) [Note: Chinese char-acters will be followed by their pronunciations,denoted in Hanyu pinyin, and, when necessary, anEnglish translation.
], ???
(hai3, sea), and???
(yang2, ocean) are related to huge water sys-tems, so they share the semantic radical, ?, whichis a pictogram for ?water?
in Chinese.
Applyingthe concepts of pictograms, researchers designedgames, e.g.,  (Lan et al, 2009) and animations, e.g.,(Lu, 2011) for learning Chinese characters.The aforementioned approaches and designsmainly employ visual stimuli in activities.
We re-port exploration of using the combination of audioand visual stimuli.
In addition to pictograms, morethan 80% of Chinese characters are phono-semantic characters (PSCs, henceforth)  (Ho andBryant, 1997).
A PSC consists of a phonologicalcomponent (PC, henceforth) and a semantic com-ponent.
Typically, the semantic components are theradicals of PSCs.
For instance, ???(du2),???
(du2), ???
(du2), ???
(du2) contain differentradicals, but they share the same phonologicalcomponents, ???
(mai4), on their right sides.
Dueto the shared PC, these four characters are pro-nounced in exactly the same way.
If a learner canlearn and apply this rule, one may guess and read???
(du2) correctly easily.In the above example, ???
is a normal Chinesecharacter, but not all Chinese PCs are standalonecharacters.
The characters ???
(jian3), ???
(jian3), and ???
(jian3) share their PCs on theirright sides, but that PC is not a standalone Chinesecharacter.
In addition, when a PC is a standalonecharacter, it might not indicate its own or similarpronunciation when it serves as a PC in the hostingcharacter, e.g., ???
and ???
are pronounced as/mai4/ and /du2/, respectively.
In contrast, the pro-nunciations of ??
?, ??
?, ??
?, and ???
are/tao2/.Pronunciations of specific substrings in words ofalphabetic languages are governed by grapheme-phoneme conversion (GPC) rules, though not alllanguages have very strict GPC rules.
The GPCrules in English are not as strict as those in Finish1(Ziegler and Goswami, 2005), for instance.
Thesubstring ?ean?
are pronounced consistently in?bean?, ?clean?, and ?dean,?
but the substring ?ch?does not have a consistent pronunciation in?school?, ?chase?, and ?machine.?
PCs in Chinesedo not follow strict GPC rules either, but they re-main to be good agents for learning to read.Despite the differences among phoneme systemsand among the degrees of strictness of the GPCrules in different languages, ample psycholinguis-tic evidences have shown that phonological aware-ness is a crucial factor in predicting students?
read-ing ability, e.g.,  (Siok and Fletcher, 2001).
Moreo-ver, the ability to detect and apply phonologicalconsistency in GPCs, including the roles of PCs inPSCs in Chinese, plays an instrumental role inlearners?
competence in reading Chinese.
Phono-logical consistency is an important concept forlearners of various alphabetic languages  (Jared etal., 1990; Ziegler and Goswami, 2005) and of Chi-nese, e.g., (Lee et al, 2005), and is important forboth young readers  (Ho and Bryant, 1997; Lee,2009) and adult readers  (Lin and Collins, 2012).This demonstration is unique on two aspects: (1)students play games that are designed to strengthenthe association between Chinese PCs and the pro-nunciations of hosting characters and (2) teacherscompile the games with tools that are supported bysublexical information in Chinese.
The games aimat implicitly informing players of the Chinese GPCrules, mimicking the process of how infants wouldapply statistical learning  (Saffran et al, 1996).
Weevaluated the effectiveness of the game platformwith 116 students between grade 1 and grade 6 inTaiwan, and found that the students made progressin the Chinese naming tasks.As we will show, it is not trivial to author gamesfor learning a GPC rule to meet individualizedteaching goals.
For this reason, techniques reportedin a previous ACL conference for decomposingand comparing Chinese characters were employedto assist the preparation of games (Liu et al, 2011).Results of our evaluation showed that the author-ing tool facilitates the authoring process, improv-ing both efficiency and effectiveness.We describe the learning games in Section 2,and report the evaluation results of the games inSection 3.
The authoring tool is presented in Sec-tion 4, and its evaluation is discussed in Section 5.We provide some concluding remarks in Section 6.2 The Learning GamesA game platform should include several functionalcomponents suchas the manage-ment of players?accounts and themaintenance ofplayers?
learningprofiles.
Yet, dueto the page limits,we focus on theparts that aremost relevant to the demonstration.Figure 1 shows a screenshot when a player isplaying the game.
This is a game of ?whac-a-mole?
style.
The target PC appears in the uppermiddle of the window (???
(li3) in this example),and a character and an accompanying monster (oneat a time) will pop up randomly from any of the sixholes on the ground.
The player will hear the pro-nunciation of the character (i.e., ???
(li3)), suchthat the player receives both audio and visual stim-uli during a game.
Players?
task is to hit the mon-sters for the characters that contain the shown PC.The box at the upper left corner shows the currentcredit (i.e., 3120) of the player.
The player?s creditwill be increased or decreased if s/he hits a corrector an incorrect character, respectively.
If the playerdoes not hit, the credit will remain the same.
Play-ers are ranked, in the Hall of Fame, according totheir total credits to provide an incentive for themto play the game after school.In Figure 1, the player has to hit the monster be-fore the monster disappears to get the credit.
If theplayer does not act in time, the credit will notchange.On ordinary computers, the player manipulatesthe mouse to hit the monster.
On multi-touch tabletcomputers, the play can just touch the monsterswith fingers.
Both systems will be demoed.2.1 Challenging LevelsAt the time of logging into the game, players canchoose two parameters: (1) class level: lower class(i.e., grades 1 and 2), middle class (i.e., grades 3and 4), or upper class (i.e., grades 5 and 6) and (2)speed level: the duration between the monsters?popping up and going down.
The characters forlower, middle, and upper classes vary in terms offrequency and complexity of the characters.
A stu-dent can choose the upper class only if s/he is inthe upper class or if s/he has gathered sufficientcredits.
There are three different speeds for themonsters to appear and hide: 2, 3, and 5 seconds.Choosing different combinations of these two pa-Figure 1.
The learning game2rameters affect how the credits are added or de-ducted when the players hit the monsters correctlyor incorrectly, respectively.
Table 1 shows the in-crements of credits for different settings.
The num-bers on the leftmost column are speed levels.2.2  Feedback InformationAfter finishing agame, the playerreceives feed-back about thecorrect and in-correct actionsthat were takenduring the game.Figure 2 showssuch an example.The feedback informs the players what characterswere correctly hit (???
(mai2), ???(li3),???
(li3), and ???
(li3)), incorrectly hit(???
(ting2) and ???
(show4)), and should havebeen hit (???(li2)).
When the player moves mouseover these characters, a sample Chinese word thatshows how the character is used in daily lives willshow up in a vertical box near the middle (i.e.,????
(li3 mian4)).The main purpose of providing the feedback in-formation is to allow players a chance to reflect onwhat s/he had done during the game, therebystrengthening the learning effects.On the upper right hand side of Figure 2 are fourtabs for more functions.
Clicking on the top tab(???)
will take the player to the next game.
Inthe next game, the focus will switch to a differentPC.
The selection of the next PC is random in thecurrent system, but we plan to make the switchingfrom a game to another adaptive to the students?performance in future systems.
Clicking on thesecond tab (???)
will see the player list in theHall of Fame, clicking on the third tab(?????)
will return to the main menu, andclicking on the fourth (???)
will lead to gamesfor extra credits.
We have extended our games tolead students to learning Chinese words from char-acters, and details will be illustrated during thedemo.2.3 Behind the SceneThe data structure of a game is simple.
When com-piling a game, a teacher selects the PC for thegame, and prepares six characters that contain thePC (to be referred as an In-list henceforth) andfour characters as distracter characters that do notcontain the PC (to be referred as an Out-list hence-forth).
The simplest internal form of a game lookslike {target PC= ??
?, In-list= ???????
?,Out-list= ??????
}.
We can convert this struc-ture into a game easily.
Through this simple struc-ture, teachers choose the PCs to teach with charac-ter combinations of different challenging levels.During the process of playing, our system ran-domly selects one character from the list of 10characters.
In a game, 10 characters will be pre-sented to the player.3 Preliminary Evaluation and AnalysisThe game platform was evaluated with 116 stu-dents, and was found to shorten students?
responsetimes in Chinese naming tasks.3.1 Procedure and ParticipantsThe evaluation was conducted at an elementaryschool in Taipei, Taiwan, during the winter breakbetween late January and the end of February2011.
The lunar new year of 2011 happened to bewithin this period.Students were divided into an experimentalgroup and a control group.
We taught students ofthe experimental group and showed them how toplay the games in class hours before the break be-gan.
The experimental group had one month oftime to play the games, but there were no rulesasking the participants how much time they mustspend on the games.
Instead, they were told thatthey would be rewarded if they were ranked highin the Hall of Fame.
Table 2 shows the numbers ofparticipants and their actual class levels.As we explained in Section 2.1, a player couldchoose the class level before the game begins.Hence, for example, it is possible for a lower classplayer to play the games designed for middle oreven upper class levels to increase their creditsfaster.
However, if the player is not competent, thecredits may be deducted faster as well.
In the eval-uation, 20 PCs were used in the games for eachclass level in Table 1.Pretests and posttests were administered with thestandardized (1) Chinese Character RecognitionFigure 2.
Feedback informationLower Middle UpperExperimental 11 23 24Control 11 23 24Table 2.
Number of participantsLower Middle Upper5 10 20 303 15 25 352 20 30 40Table 1.Credits for challenging levels3Test (CCRT) and (2) Rapid Automatized NamingTask (RAN).
In CCRT, participants needed towrite the pronunciations in Jhuyin, which is a pho-netic system used in Taiwan, for 200 Chinesecharacters.
The number of correctly writtenJhuyins for the characters was recorded.
In RAN,participants read 20 Chinese characters as fast asthey could, and their speeds and accuracies wererecorded.3.2 Results and AnalysisTable 3 shows the statistics for the control group.After the one month evaluation period, the perfor-mance of the control group did not change signifi-cantly, except participants in the upper class.
Thissubgroup improved their speeds in RAN.
(Statisti-cally significant numbers are highlighted.
)Table 4 shows the statistics for the experimentalgroup.
After the evaluation period, the speeds inRAN of all class levels improved significantly.The correct rates in RAN of the control groupdid not improve or fall, though not statistically sig-nificant.
In contrast, the correct rates in RAN ofthe experimental group improved, but the im-provement was not statistically significant either.The statistics for the CCRT tests were not statis-tically significant.
The only exception is that themiddle class in the experimental group achievedbetter CCRT results.
We were disappointed in thefalling of the performance in CCRT of the lowerclass, though the change was not significant.
Thelower class students were very young, so we con-jectured that it was harder for them to rememberthe writing of Jhuyin symbols after the winterbreak.
Hence, after the evaluation, we strengthenedthe feedback by adding Jhuyin information.
In Fig-ure 2, the Jhuyin information is now added besidethe sample Chinese words, i.e., ????
(li3 mian4).4 An Open Authoring Tool for the GamesOur game platform has attracted the attention ofteachers of several elementary schools.
To meetthe teaching goals of teacher in different areas, wehave to allow the teachers to compile their owngames for their needs.The data structure for a game, as we explainedin Section  2.3, is not complex.
A teacher needs todetermine the PC to be taught first, then s/he mustchoose an In-list and an Out-list.
In the current im-plementation, we choose to have six characters inthe In-list and four characters in the Out-list.
Weallow repeated characters when the qualified char-acters are not enough.This authoring process is far less trivial as itmight seem to be.
In a previous evaluation, evennative speakers of Chinese found it challenging tolist many qualified characters out of the sky.
Be-cause PCs are not radicals, ordinary dictionarieswould not help very much.
For instance, ???
(mai2), ???
(li2), ???
(li3), and ???
(li3) belongto different radicals and have different pronuncia-tions, so there is no simple way to find them at justone place.Identifying characters for the In-list of a PC isnot easy, and finding the characters for the Out-listis even more challenging.
In Figure 1, ???
(li3) isthe PC to teach in the game.
Without consideringthe characters in In-list for the game, we mightbelieve that ???
(jia3) and ???
(cheng2) lookequally similar to ??
?, so both are good distract-ers.
If, assuming that ???
(li3) is in the In-list,???
(jia3) will be a better distracter than ???
(cheng2) for the Out-list, because ???
and ??
?are more similar in appearance.
By contrast, if wehave ???
in the In-list, we may prefer to having???
(cheng2) than having ???
in the Out-list.Namely, given a PC to teach and a selected In-list, the ?quality?
of the Out-list is dependent onthe characters in In-list.
Out-lists of high qualityinfluence the challenging levels of the games, andwill become a crucial ingredient when we make thegames adaptive to players?
competence.4.1 PC SelectionControl GroupClass Pretests Posttests p-valueCCRT(charac-ters)Lower 59 61 .292Middle 80 83 .186Upper 117 120 .268RANCorrectRateLower 83% 79% .341Middle 59% 64% .107Upper 89% 89% 1.00RANSpeed(second)Lower 23.1 20.6 .149Middle 24.3 20.2 .131Upper 15.7 14.1 .026Table 3.
Results for control groupExperimental GroupClass Pretests Posttests p-valueCCRT(charac-ters)Lower 64 61 .226Middle 91 104 .001Upper 122 124 .52RANCorrectRateLower 73% 76% .574Middle 70% 75% .171Upper 89% 91% .279RANSpeed(second)Lower 21.5 16.9 .012Middle 24.6 19.0 .001Upper 16.9 14.7 <0.001Table 4.
Results for experimental group4In a realistic teaching situation, a teacher will beteaching new characters and would like to providestudents games that are related to the structures ofthe new characters.
Hence, it is most convenientfor the teachers that our tool decomposes a givencharacter and recommends the PC in the character.For instance, given ??
?, we show the teacher thatwe could compile a game for ???.
This is achiev-able using the techniques that we illustrate in thenext subsection.4.2 Character RecommendationGiven a selected PC, a teacher has to prepare theIn-list and Out-list for the game.
Extending thetechniques we reported in  (Liu et al, 2011), wedecompose every Chinese character into a se-quence of detailed Cangjie codes, which allows usto infer the PC contained in a character and to inferthe similarity between two Chinese characters.For instance, the internal codes for ??
?, ???,??
?, and ???
are, respectively, ?WG?,?MGWG?, ?LWG?, and ?MGWL?.
The Englishletters denote the basic elements of Chinese char-acters.
For instance, ?WG?
stands for ???
?,which are the upper and the lower parts of ???,?WL?
stands for ???
?, which could be used torebuild ???
in a sense.
By comparing the internalcodes of Chinese characters, it is possible to findthat (1) ???
and ???
include ???
and that (2)???
and ???
are visually similar based on theoverlapping codes.For the example problem that we showed inFigures 1 and 2, we may apply an extended proce-dure of  (Liu et al, 2011) to find an In-list for ???:???????????.
This list includes morecharacters than most native speakers can producefor ???
within a short period.
Similar to what wereported previously, it is not easy to find a perfectlist of characters.
More specifically, it was relative-ly easy to achieve high recall rates, but the preci-sion rates varied among different PCs.
However,with a good scoring function to rank the characters,it is not hard to achieve quality recommendationsby placing the characters that actually contain thetarget PCs on top of the recommendation.Given that ???
is the target PC and the aboveIn-list, we can recommend characters that look likethe correct characters, e.g., ?????
for ???,?????
for ??
?, ?????
for ???,??????
for ???
, and ????
for  ??
?.We employed similar techniques to recommendcharacters for In-lists and Out-lists.
The databasethat contains information about the decomposedChinese charac-ters was thesame, but weutilized differentobject functionsin selecting andranking thecharacters.
Weconsidered allelements in acharacter to rec-ommend charac-ters for In-lists, but focused on the inclusion oftarget PCs in the decomposed characters to rec-ommend characters for Out-lists.
Again our rec-ommendations for the Out-lists were not perfect,and different ranking functions affect the perceivedusefulness of the authoring tools.Figure 3 shows the step to choose characters inthe Out-list for characters in the In-list.
In this ex-ample, six characters for the In-list for the PC ?
?had been chosen, and were listed near the top:????????.
Teachers can find charactersthat are similar to these six correct characters inseparate pull-down lists.
The screenshot shows theoperation to choose a character that is similar to???
(yao2) from the pull-down list.
The selectedcharacter would be added into the Out-list.4.3 Game ManagementWe allow teachers to apply for accounts and pre-pare the games based on their own teaching goals.However, we cannot describe this managementsubsystem for page limits.5 Evaluation of the Authoring ToolWe evaluated how well our tools can help teacherswith 20 native speakers.5.1 Participants and ProcedureWe recruited 20 native speakers of Chinese: nineof them are undergraduates, and the rest are gradu-ate students.
Eight are studying some engineeringfields, and the rest are in liberal arts or business.The subjects were equally split into two groups.The control group used only paper and pens to au-thor the games, and the experimental group woulduse our authoring tools.
We informed and showedthe experimental group how to use our tool, andmembers of the experimental group must follow anillustration to create a sample game before theevaluation began.Every subject must author 5 games, each for aFigure 3.
Selecting a character for an Out-list5different PC.
A game needed 6 characters in the In-list and 4 characters in the Out-list.
Every evalua-tor had up to 15 minutes to finish all tasks.The games authored by the evaluators werejudged by psycholinguists who have experience inteaching.
The highest possible scores for the In-listand the Out-list were both 30 for a game.5.2 Gains in Efficiency and EffectivenessTable 5 shows the results of the evaluation.
Theexperimental group outperformed the controlgroup in both the quality of the games and in thetime spent on the authoring task.
The differencesare clearly statistically significant.Table 6 shows the scores for the In-list and Out-list achieved by the control and the experimentalgroups.
Using the authoring tools helped the evalu-ators to achieved significantly higher scores for theOut-list.
Indeed, it is not easy to find charactersthat (1) are similar to the characters in the In-listand (2) cannot contain the target PC.Due to the page limits, we could not present thecomplete authoring system, but hope to have thechance to show it during the demonstration.6 Concluding RemarksWe reported a game for strengthening the associa-tion of the phonetic components and the pronun-ciations of Chinese characters.
Experimental re-sults indicated that playing the games helped stu-dents shorten the response times in naming tasks.To make our platform more useable, we built anauthoring tool so that teachers could prepare gamesthat meet specific teaching goals.
Evaluation of thetool with college and graduate students showedthat our system offered an efficient and effectiveenvironment for this authoring task.Currently, players of our games still have tochoose challenge levels.
In the near future, wewish to make the game adaptive to players?
compe-tence by adopting more advanced techniques, in-cluding the introduction of ?consistency values?
(Jared et al, 1990).
Evidence shows that foreignstudents did not take advantage of the GPC rules inChinese to learn Chinese characters  (Shen, 2005).Hence, it should be interesting to evaluate our sys-tem with foreign students to see whether our ap-proach remains effective.AcknowledgementWe thank the partial support of NSC-100-2221-E-004-014and NSC-98-2517-S-004-001-MY3 projects of the Nation-al Science Council, Taiwan.
We appreciate reviewers?invaluable comments, which we will respond in an ex-tended version of this paper.ReferencesC.
S.-H. Ho and P. Bryant.
1997.
Phonological skills are im-portant in learning to read Chinese, Developmental Psy-chology, 33(6), 946?951.D.
Jared, K. McRae, and M. S. Seidenberg.
1990.
The basis ofconsistency effects in word naming, J. of Memory & Lan-guage, 29(6), 687?715.Y.-J.
Lan, Y.-T.
Sung, C.-Y.
Wu, R.-L. Wang, and K.-E.Chang.
2009.
A cognitive interactive approach to Chinesecharacters learning: System design and development, Proc.of the Int?l Conf.
on Edutainment, 559?564.C.-Y.
Lee.
2009.
The cognitive and neural basis for learning toreading Chinese, J. of Basic Education, 18(2), 63?85.C.-Y.
Lee, J.-L. Tsai, E. C.-I Su, O. J.-L. Tzeng, and D.-L.Hung.
2005.
Consistency, regularity, and frequency effectsin naming Chinese characters, Language and Linguistics,6(1), 75?107.C.-H. Lin and P. Collins.
2012.
The effects of L1 and ortho-graphic regularity and consistency in naming Chinese char-acters.
Reading and Writing.C.-L. Liu, M.-H. Lai, K.-W. Tien, Y.-H. Chuang, S.-H. Wu,and C.-Y.
Lee.
2011.
Visually and phonologically similarcharacters in incorrect Chinese words: Analyses, identifica-tion, and applications, ACM Trans.
on Asian Language In-formation Processing, 10(2), 10:1?39.M.-T. P. Lu.
2011.
The Effect of Instructional EmbodimentDesigns on Chinese Language Learning: The Use of Em-bodied Animation for Beginning Learners of ChineseCharacters, Ph.D.
Diss., Columbia University, USA.J.
R. Saffran, R. N. Aslin, and E. L. Newport.
1996.
Statisticallearning by 8-month-old infants, Science, 274(5294),1926?1928.H.
H. Shen.
2005.
An investigation of Chinese-characterlearning strategies among non-native speakers of Chinese,System, 33, 49?68.W.T.
Siok and P. Fletcher.
2001.
The role of phonologicalawareness and visual-orthographic skills in Chinese read-ing acquisition, Developmental Psychology, 37(6), 886?899.H.
Tao.
2007.
Stories for 130 Chinese characters, textbookused at the University of Michigan, USA.J.
C. Ziegler and U. Goswami.
2005.
Reading acquisition,developmental dyslexia, and skilled reading across lan-guages: A psycholinguistic grain size theory, PsychologicalBulletin, 131(1), 3?29.Avg.
scores(In-list and Out-list)Avg.
timeControl 16.8 15 minExperimental 52.8 7.1 minp-value < 0.0001 < 0.0001Table 5.
Improved effectiveness and efficiencyAvg.
scoresIn-list Out-listControl 15.9 1Experimental 29.9 22.9Table 6.
Detailed scores for the average scores6
