Tutorial Abstracts of ACL 2012, page 2,Jeju, Republic of Korea, 8 July 2012. c?2012 Association for Computational LinguisticsState-of-the-Art Kernels for Natural Language ProcessingAlessandro MoschittiDepartment of Computer Science and Information EngineeringUniversity of TrentoVia Sommarive 5, 38123 Povo (TN), Italymoschitti@disi.unitn.itIntroductionIn recent years, machine learning (ML) has beenused more and more to solve complex tasks in dif-ferent disciplines, ranging from Data Mining to In-formation Retrieval or Natural Language Processing(NLP).
These tasks often require the processing ofstructured input, e.g., the ability to extract salientfeatures from syntactic/semantic structures is criti-cal to many NLP systems.
Mapping such structureddata into explicit feature vectors for ML algorithmsrequires large expertise, intuition and deep knowl-edge about the target linguistic phenomena.
Ker-nel Methods (KM) are powerful ML tools (see e.g.,(Shawe-Taylor and Cristianini, 2004)), which can al-leviate the data representation problem.
They substi-tute feature-based similarities with similarity func-tions, i.e., kernels, directly defined between train-ing/test instances, e.g., syntactic trees.
Hence fea-ture vectors are not needed any longer.
Additionally,kernel engineering, i.e., the composition or adapta-tion of several prototype kernels, facilitates the de-sign of effective similarities required for new tasks,e.g., (Moschitti, 2004; Moschitti, 2008).Tutorial ContentThe tutorial aims at addressing the problems above:firstly, it will introduce essential and simplified the-ory of Support Vector Machines and KM with theonly aim of motivating practical procedures and in-terpreting the results.
Secondly, it will simply de-scribe the current best practices for designing ap-plications based on effective kernels.
For this pur-pose, it will survey state-of-the-art kernels for di-verse NLP applications, reconciling the different ap-proaches with a uniform and global notation/theory.Such survey will benefit from practical expertise ac-quired from directly working on many natural lan-guage applications, ranging from Text Categoriza-tion to Syntactic/Semantic Parsing.
Moreover, prac-tical demonstrations using SVM-Light-TK toolkitwill nicely support the application-oriented perspec-tive of the tutorial.
The latter will lead NLP re-searchers with heterogeneous background to the ac-quisition of the KM know-how, which can be usedto design any target NLP application.Finally, the tutorial will propose interesting newbest practices, e.g., some recent methods for large-scale learning with structural kernels (Severynand Moschitti, 2011), structural lexical similarities(Croce et al, 2011) and reverse kernel engineering(Pighin and Moschitti, 2009).ReferencesDanilo Croce, Alessandro Moschitti, and Roberto Basili.2011.
Structured Lexical Similarity via ConvolutionKernels on Dependency Trees.
In Proc.
of EMNLP.Alessandro Moschitti.
2004.
A Study on ConvolutionKernels for Shallow Semantic Parsing.
In Proceedingsof ACL.Alessandro Moschitti.
2008.
Kernel Methods, Syntaxand Semantics for Relational Text Categorization.
InProceedings of CIKM.Daniele Pighin and Alessandro Moschitti.
2009.
Effi-cient Linearization of Tree Kernel Functions.
In Pro-ceedings of CoNLL.Aliaksei Severyn and Alessandro Moschitti.
2011.
FastSupport Vector Machines for Structural Kernels.
InECML.John Shawe-Taylor and Nello Cristianini.
2004.
KernelMethods for Pattern Analysis.
Cambridge Univ.
Press.2
