Proceedings of the 50th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics, pages 243?247,Jeju, Republic of Korea, 8-14 July 2012. c?2012 Association for Computational LinguisticsToward Automatically Assembling Hittite-Language Cuneiform TabletFragments into Larger TextsStephen TyndallUniversity of Michiganstyndall@umich.eduAbstractThis paper presents the problem within Hit-tite and Ancient Near Eastern studies of frag-mented and damaged cuneiform texts, andproposes to use well-known text classificationmetrics, in combination with some facts aboutthe structure of Hittite-language cuneiformtexts, to help classify a number of fragments ofclay cuneiform-script tablets into more com-plete texts.
In particular, I propose usingSumerian and Akkadian ideogrammatic signswithin Hittite texts to improve the perfor-mance of Naive Bayes and Maximum Entropyclassifiers.
The performance in some casesis improved, and in some cases very muchnot, suggesting that the variable frequency ofoccurrence of these ideograms in individualfragments makes considerable difference inthe ideal choice for a classification method.Further, complexities of the writing systemand the digital availability of Hittite texts com-plicate the problem.1 IntroductionThe Hittite empire, in existence for about 600 yearsbetween 1800 and 1200 BCE, left numerous histori-cal, political, and literary documents behind, writtenin cuneiform in clay tablets.
There are a number ofcommon problems that confront Hittite scholars in-terested in any subdiscipline of Hittitology, be it his-tory, philology, or linguistics.
Horst Klengel sum-marizes the issue most crucial to this paper:Some general problems, affecting bothphilologists and historians, are caused bythe Hittite textual tradition itself.
First,the bulk of the cuneiform material is frag-mentary.
The tablets, discovered in var-ious depots in the Hittite capital and insome provincial centers, normally were ofa larger size.
When the archives were de-stroyed, the tablets for the most part brokeinto many pieces.
Therefore, the joiningof fragments became an important prereq-uisite for interpretation(Klengel, 2002).Most Hittite texts are broken, but a number existin more than one fragmentary copy.Figure 1 shows a photograph, taken from theUniversity of Meinz Konkordanz der hethitischenTexte1, of a typical Hittite cuneiform fragment.Complete or partially-complete texts are assem-bled from collections of fragments based on shape,writing size and style, and sentence similarity.
Joinsbetween fragments are not made systematically, butare usually discovered by scholars assembling largenumbers of fragments that reference a specific sub-ject, like some joins recently made in Hittite treatydocuments in (Beckman, 1997).Joins are thus fairly rare compared to the fre-quency of new publishing of fragments.
Such joinsand the larger texts created therewith are cataloguedaccording to a CTH (Catalogue des Textes Hittites2)number.
Each individual text is composed of one ormore cuneiform fragments belonging to one or morecopies of a single original work.1available at http://www.hethport.uni-wuerzburg.de/HPM/hethportlinks.html2available at http://www.hethport.uni-wuerzburg.de/CTH/243Figure 2 shows a published join in hand-copiedcuneiform fragments.
In this case, the fragments arenot contiguous, and only the text on the two frag-ments was used to make the join.The task then, for the purposes of this paper, isto connect unknown fragments of Hittite cuneiformtablets with larger texts.
I?m viewing this as a textclassification task, where larger, CTH-numberedtexts are the categories, and small fragments are thebits of text to be assigned to these categories.2 The Corpus of HittiteHittite cuneiform consists of a mix of syllabic writ-ing for Hittite words and logographic writing, typ-ically Sumerian ideograms, standing in for Hittitewords.
Most words are written out phonologicallyusing syllabic signs, in structure mostly CV and VC,and a few CVC.
Some common words are writtenwith logograms from other Ancient Near Easternlanguages, e.g.
Hittite antuhs?a- ?man?
is commonlywritten with the Sumerian-language logogram tran-scribed LU?.
Such writings are called Sumerogramsor Akkadograms, depending on the language fromwhich the ideogram is taken.The extant corpus of Hittite consists of more than30,000 clay tablets and fragments excavated at sitesin Turkey, Syria, and Egypt (Hoffner and Melchert,2008, 2-3).
Many of these fragments are assigned toone of the 835 texts catalogued in the CTH.3 Prior WorkA large number of prior studies on text classifica-tion have informed the progress of this study.
Cat-egorization of texts into genres is very well studied(Dewdney et al, 2001).
Other related text classi-fication studies have looked at classifying text bysource, in contexts of speech, as in an attempt toclassify some segments of speech into native andnon-native speaker categories (Tomokiyo and Jones,2001), and writing and authorship, as in the fa-mous Federalist Papers study(Mosteller and Wal-lace, 1984), and context, as in a categorization ofa set of articles according to which newspaper theyappeared in (Argamon-Engelson et al, 1998).Measures of similarity among sections of a singledocument bear a closer relation to this project thanthe works above.
Previous studies have examined in-Figure 1: Photograph of a Hittite Tablet FragmentFigure 2: Published Fragment Join244ternal document similarity, using some vector-basedmetrics to judge whether documents maintain thesame subject throughout (Nicholson, 2009).Very little computational work on cuneiform lan-guages or texts exists.
The most notable exampleis a study that examined grapheme distribution asa way to understand Hurrian substratal interferencein the orthography of Akkadian-language cuneiformtexts written in the Hurrian-speaking town of Nuzi(Smith, 2007).
Smith?s work, though using differentclassifying methods and and an enormously differ-ent corpus on a language with different characteris-tics, is the most similar to this study, since both areattempts to classify cuneiform fragments into cat-egories - in Smith?s case, into Hurrian-influencedNuzi Akkadian and non-Nuzi standard Akkadian.4 The Project CorpusFor this project, I use a corpus of neo-Hittitefragment transcriptions available from H. CraigMelchert (Melchert, ).
The corpus is one large textfile, divided into CTH numbered sections, whichthemselves are divided into fragments labeled bytheir publication numbers - mostly KUB, whichstands for Keilschrifturkunden aus Boghazko?i orKBo, Keilschrifttexte aus Boghazko?i, the two majorpublications for Hittite text fragments.I restricted the fragments used in this project tofragments belonging to texts known to exist in atleast two copies, a choice that produces a largernumber of fragments per text without requiring ajudgment about what number of fragments in a textconstitutes ?fragmented enough?
for a legitimate testof this task.
This leaves 36 total CTH-numberedtexts, consisting of 389 total fragments.The fragments themselves are included as plaintext, with restorations by the transcribers left intactand set off by brackets, in the manner typical ofcuneiform transcription.
In transcription, signs withphonemic value are written in lower case characters,while ideograms are represented in all caps.
Signboundaries are represented by a hyphen, indicatingthe next sign is part of the current word, by an equalssign, indicating the next sign is a clitic, or a space,indicating that the next sign is part of a new word.
{KUB XXXI 25; DS 29}x[ ]A-NA KUR URUHa[t-ti?
[ i]s-tar-ni=sum-m[i[ ]x nu=kn ki-x[[ ] KUR URUMi-iz-ri=y[a[is-tar-ni]=sum-mi e-es-du [[ ] nu=kn A-NA KUR URUMi-iz-ri[[A-NA EGI]R UDmi is-tar-ni=su[m-miThis fragment, KUB XXI25, is very small andbroken on both sides.
The areas between bracketsare sections of the text broken off or effaced by ero-sion of tablet surface material.
Any text present be-tween brackets has been inferred from context andtranscriber experience with usual phrasing in Hittite.In the last line, the sign EGIR, a Sumerian ideogram,which is split by a bracket, was partially effaced butstill recognizable to the transcriber, and so is split bya bracket.5 MethodsFor this project, I used both Naive Bayes and Max-imum Entropy classifiers as implemented by theMAchine Learning for LanguagE Toolkit, MAL-LET(McCallum, 2002).Two copies of the corpus were prepared.
Inone, anything in brackets or partially remaining afterbrackets was removed, leaving only characters actu-ally preserved on the fragment.
This copy is calledPlain Cuneiform in the results section.
The otherhas all bracket characters removed, leaving all actualcharacters and all characters suggested by the tran-scribers.
This corpus is called Brackets Removed inthe results section.
By removing the brackets butleaving the suggested characters, I hoped to use thetranscribers?
intuitions about Hittite texts to furtherimprove the performance of both classifiers.The corpora were tokenized in two ways:1.
The tokens were defined only by spaces, cap-turing all words in the corpus.2.
The tokens were defined as a series of capitalletters and punctuation marks, capturing onlythe Sumerian and Akkadian ideograms in thetext, i.e.
the very common Sumerian ideogramDINGER.MES?, ?the gods?.The training and tests were all performed usingMALLET?s standard algorithms, cross-validated,245Table 1: Results for Plain CorpusTokenization Naive Bayes Max EntAll Tokens .55 .61Ideograms Only .44 .51Table 2: Results for Tests on Corpus with Brackets Re-movedTokenization Naive Bayes Max EntAll Tokens .64 .67Ideograms Only .49 .54splitting the data randomly into ten parts, and using9 parts of the data as a training set and 1 part of thedata as a test set.
This means that each set was testedten times, with all of the data eventually being usedas part of the testing phase.6 Results and DiscussionAccuracy values from the classifiers using the Plaincorpus, and from the corpus with the Brackets Re-moved, are presented in Tables 1 and 2, respec-tively.
The measures are raw accuracy, the fractionof the test fragments that the methods categorizedcorrectly.The results for the Plain Corpus show that theNaive Bayes classifier was 55% accurate with all to-kens, and 44% accurate with ideograms alone.
TheMaximum Entropy classifier was 61% accurate withall tokens, and 51% accurate with ideograms only.Both classifiers performed better with the Brack-ets Removed corpus.
The Naive Bayes classifier wasaccurate 64% of the time with all tokens and 49% ofthe time with ideograms only.
The Maximum En-tropy classifier was 67% accurate with all tokens,and 54% accurate with ideograms only.The predicted increase in accuracy usingideograms was not upheld by the above tests.
It maybe the case that Sumerograms and Akkadogramsare insufficiently frequent, particularly in smallerfragments, to allow for correct categorization.Some early tests suggested occasional excellentresults for this tokenization scheme, including asingle random 90-10 training/test run that showeda test accuracy of .86, much higher than any largercross-validated test included above.
This suggests,perhaps unsurprisingly, that the accuracy of classi-fication using Sumerograms and Akkadograms isheavily dependent on the structure of the fragmentsin question.Maximum Entropy classification proved to beslightly better, in every instance, than Naive Bayesclassification, a fact that will prove useful in futuretests and applications.The fact that removing the brackets and includ-ing the transcribers?
additions improved the perfor-mance of all classifiers will likewise prove useful,since transcriptions of fragments are typically pub-lished with such bracketed additions.
It also seemsto demonstrate the quality of these additions madeby transcribers.Overall, these tests suggest that in general, the?use-everything?
approach is better for accurate clas-sification of Hittite tablet fragments with larger CTHtexts.
However, in some cases, when the fragmentsin question have a large number of Sumerogramsand Akkadograms, using them exclusively may bethe right choice.7 Implications and Further WorkIn the future, I hope to continue with a number ofother approaches to this problem, including lemma-tizing the various Hittite noun and verb paradigms.Additionally, viewing the problem in other ways,e.g.
regarding tablet fragments as elements for con-nection by clustering algorithms, might work well.Given the large number of small fragments nowcoming to light, this method could speed the pro-cess of text assembly considerably.
A new set ofarchives, recently discovered in the Hittite city ofS?apinuwa, are only now beginning to see publica-tion.
This site contains more than 3000 new Hit-tite tablet fragments, with excavations ongoing(Su?el,2002).
The jumbled nature of the dig site means thatthe process of assembling new texts from this sitewill be one of the major tasks in for Hittite schol-ars in the near future.
This attempt at speeding thetask is only the beginning of what I hope will be aconsiderable body of work to help build more com-plete texts, and therefore more complete literaturesand histories, of not only Hittite, but other cuneiformlanguages like Akkadian and Sumerian, some of theworld?s earliest written languages.246ReferencesS.
Argamon-Engelson, M. Koppel, and G. Avneri.
1998.Style-based text categorization: What newspaper am ireading.
In Proc.
of the AAAI Workshop on Text Cate-gorization, pages 1?4.G.
Beckman.
1997.
New Joins to Hittite Treaties.Zeitschrift fu?r Assyriologie und VorderasiatischeArcha?ologie, 87(1):96?100.N.
Dewdney, C. VanEss-Dykema, and R. MacMillan.2001.
The form is the substance: Classification of gen-res in text.
In Proceedings of the workshop on HumanLanguage Technology and Knowledge Management-Volume 2001, pages 1?8.
Association for Computa-tional Linguistics.H.A.
Hoffner and H.C. Melchert.
2008.
A grammar ofthe Hittite language.
Eisenbrauns.Horst Klengel.
2002.
Problems in hittite history, solvedand unsolved.
In Simrit Dhesi K. Aslihan Yener, HarryA.
Hoffner Jr., editor, Recent developments in Hittitearchaeology and history: papers in memory of HansG.
Gu?terbock, pages 101?109.
Eisenbrauns.Andrew Kachites McCallum.
2002.
Mal-let: A machine learning for language toolkit.http://mallet.cs.umass.edu.H.
Craig Melchert.
Anatolian databases.
http://www.linguistics.ucla.edu/people/Melchert/webpage/AnatolianDatabases.htm.F.
Mosteller and D.L.
Wallace.
1984.
Applied bayesianand classical inference: The case of the federalist pa-pers.C.
Nicholson.
2009.
Judging whether a documentchanges in subject.
In Southeastcon, 2009.
SOUTH-EASTCON?09.
IEEE, pages 189?194.
IEEE.S.P.
Smith.
2007.
Hurrian Orthographic Interfer-ence in Nuzi Akkadian: A Computational ComparativeGraphemic Analysis.
Ph.D. thesis, Harvard UniversityCambridge, Massachusetts.A.
Su?el.
2002.
Ortako?y-sapinuwa.
In Simrit DhesiK.
Aslihan Yener, Harry A. Hoffner Jr., editor, Recentdevelopments in Hittite archaeology and history: pa-pers in memory of Hans G. Gu?terbock, pages 157?165.Eisenbrauns.L.M.
Tomokiyo and R. Jones.
2001.
You?re not from?round here, are you?
: naive bayes detection of non-native utterance text.
In Second meeting of the NorthAmerican Chapter of the Association for Computa-tional Linguistics on Language technologies 2001,pages 1?8.
Association for Computational Linguistics.247
