Proceedings of the 50th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics, pages 79?84,Jeju, Republic of Korea, 8-14 July 2012. c?2012 Association for Computational LinguisticsEntailment-based Text Explorationwith Application to the Health-care DomainMeni AdlerBar Ilan UniversityRamat Gan, Israeladlerm@cs.bgu.ac.ilJonathan BerantTel Aviv UniversityTel Aviv, Israeljonatha6@post.tau.ac.ilIdo DaganBar Ilan UniversityRamat Gan, Israeldagan@cs.biu.ac.ilAbstractWe present a novel text exploration model,which extends the scope of state-of-the-arttechnologies by moving from standard con-cept-based exploration to statement-based ex-ploration.
The proposed scheme utilizes thetextual entailment relation between statementsas the basis of the exploration process.
A userof our system can explore the result space ofa query by drilling down/up from one state-ment to another, according to entailment re-lations specified by an entailment graph andan optional concept taxonomy.
As a promi-nent use case, we apply our exploration sys-tem and illustrate its benefit on the health-caredomain.
To the best of our knowledge this isthe first implementation of an exploration sys-tem at the statement level that is based on thetextual entailment relation.1 IntroductionFinding information in a large body of text is be-coming increasingly more difficult.
Standard searchengines output a set of documents for a given query,but do not allow any exploration of the thematicstructure in the retrieved information.
Thus, the needfor tools that allow to effectively sift through a targetset of documents is becoming ever more important.Faceted search (Stoica and Hearst, 2007; Ka?ki,2005) supports a better understanding of a target do-main, by allowing exploration of data according tomultiple views or facets.
For example, given a set ofdocuments on Nobel Prize laureates we might havedifferent facets corresponding to the laureate?s na-tionality, the year when the prize was awarded, thefield in which it was awarded, etc.
However, thistype of exploration is still severely limited insofarthat it only allows exploration by topic rather thancontent.
Put differently, we can only explore accord-ing to what a document is about rather than whata document actually says.
For instance, the facetsfor the query ?asthma?
in the faceted search engineYippy include the concepts allergy and children, butdo not specify what are the exact relations betweenthese concepts and the query (e.g., allergy causesasthma, and children suffer from asthma).Berant et al (2010) proposed an explorationscheme that focuses on relations between concepts,which are derived from a graph describing textualentailment relations between propositions.
In theirsetting a proposition consists of a predicate with twoarguments that are possibly replaced by variables,such as ?X control asthma?.
A graph that specifiesan entailment relation ?X control asthma ?
X af-fect asthma?
can help a user, who is browsing doc-uments dealing with substances that affect asthma,drill down and explore only substances that controlasthma.
This type of exploration can be viewed asan extension of faceted search, where the new facetconcentrates on the actual statements expressed inthe texts.In this paper we follow Berant et al?s proposal,and present a novel entailment-based text explo-ration system, which we applied to the health-caredomain.
A user of this system can explore the re-sult space of her query, by drilling down/up fromone proposition to another, according to a set of en-tailment relations described by an entailment graph.In Figure 1, for example, the user looks for ?things?79Figure 1: Exploring asthma results.that affect asthma.
She invokes an ?asthma?
queryand starts drilling down the entailment graph to ?Xcontrol asthma?
(left column).
In order to exam-ine the arguments of a selected proposition, the usermay drill down/up a concept taxonomy that classi-fies terms that occur as arguments.
The user in Fig-ure 1, for instance, drills down the concept taxon-omy (middle column), in order to focus on Hor-mones that control asthma, such as ?prednisone?
(right column).
Each drill down/up induces a subsetof the documents that correspond to the aforemen-tioned selections.
The retrieved document in Fig-ure 1 (bottom) is highlighted by the relevant propo-sition, which clearly states that prednisone is oftengiven to treat asthma (and indeed in the entailmentgraph ?X treat asthma?
entails ?X control asthma?
).Our system is built over a corpus of documents,a set of propositions extracted from the documents,an entailment graph describing entailment relationsbetween propositions, and, optionally, a concept hi-erarchy.
The system implementation for the health-care domain, for instance, is based on a web-crawledhealth-care corpus, the propositions automaticallyextracted from the corpus, entailment graphs bor-rowed from Berant et al (2010), and the UMLS1taxonomy.
To the best of our knowledge this is thefirst implementation of an exploration system, at theproposition level, based on the textual entailment re-lation.2 Background2.1 Exploratory SearchExploratory search addresses the need of users toquickly identify the important pieces of informationin a target set of documents.
In exploratory search,users are presented with a result set and a set of ex-ploratory facets, which are proposals for refinementsof the query that can lead to more focused sets ofdocuments.
Each facet corresponds to a clusteringof the current result set, focused on a more specifictopic than the current query.
The user proceeds inthe exploration of the document set by selecting spe-cific documents (to read them) or by selecting spe-cific facets, to refine the result set.1http://www.nlm.nih.gov/research/umls/80Early exploration technologies were based on asingle hierarchical conceptual clustering of infor-mation (Hofmann, 1999), enabling the user to drillup and down the concept hierarchies.
Hierarchi-cal faceted meta-data (Stoica and Hearst, 2007), orfaceted search, proposed more sophisticated explo-ration possibilities by providing multiple facets anda hierarchy per facet or dimension of the domain.These types of exploration techniques were found tobe useful for effective access of information (Ka?ki,2005).In this work, we suggest proposition-based ex-ploration as an extension to concept-based explo-ration.
Our intuition is that text exploration canprofit greatly from representing information not onlyat the level of individual concepts, but also at thepropositional level, where the relations that link con-cepts to one another are represented effectively in ahierarchical entailment graph.2.2 Entailment GraphRecognizing Textual Entailment (RTE) is the taskof deciding, given two text fragments, whether themeaning of one text can be inferred from another(Dagan et al, 2009).
For example, ?Levalbuterolis used to control various kinds of asthma?
entails?Levalbuterol affects asthma?.
In this paper, we usethe notion of proposition to denote a specific typeof text fragments, composed of a predicate with twoarguments (e.g., Levalbuterol control asthma).Textual entailment systems are often based on en-tailment rules which specify a directional inferencerelation between two fragments.
In this work, wefocus on leveraging a common type of entailmentrules, in which the left-hand-side of the rule (LHS)and the right-hand-side of the rule (RHS) are propo-sitional templates - a proposition, where one or bothof the arguments are replaced by a variable, e.g., ?Xcontrol asthma?
X affect asthma?.The entailment relation between propositionaltemplates of a given corpus can be represented by anentailment graph (Berant et al, 2010) (see Figure 2,top).
The nodes of an entailment graph correspondto propositional templates, and its edges correspondto entailment relations (rules) between them.
Entail-ment graph representation is somewhat analogous tothe formation of ontological relations between con-cepts of a given domain, where in our case the nodescorrespond to propositional templates rather than toconcepts.3 Exploration ModelIn this section we extend the scope of state-of-the-art exploration technologies by moving from stan-dard concept-based exploration to proposition-basedexploration, or equivalently, statement-based explo-ration.
In our model, it is the entailment relationbetween propositional templates which determinesthe granularity of the viewed information space.
Wefirst describe the inputs to the system and then detailour proposed exploration scheme.3.1 System InputsCorpus A collection of documents, which formthe search space of the system.Extracted Propositions A set of propositions, ex-tracted from the corpus document.
The propositionsare usually produced by an extraction method, suchas TextRunner (Banko et al, 2007) or ReVerb (Faderet al, 2011).
In order to support the explorationprocess, the documents are indexed by the proposi-tional templates and argument terms of the extractedpropositions.Entailment graph for predicates The nodes ofthe entailment graph are propositional templates,where edges indicate entailment relations betweentemplates (Section 2.2).
In order to avoid circular-ity in the exploration process, the graph is trans-formed into a DAG, by merging ?equivalent?
nodesthat are in the same strong connectivity component(as suggested by Berant et al (2010)).
In addition,for clarity and simplicity, edges that can be inferredby transitivity are omitted from the DAG.
Figure 2illustrates the result of applying this procedure to afragment of the entailment graph for ?asthma?
(i.e.,for propositional templates with ?asthma?
as one ofthe arguments).Taxonomy for arguments The optional concepttaxonomy maps terms to one or more pre-definedconcepts, arranged in a hierarchical structure.
Theseterms may appear in the corpus as arguments ofpredicates.
Figure 3, for instance, illustrates a sim-ple medical taxonomy, composed of three concepts(medical, diseases, drugs) and four terms (cancer,asthma, aspirin, flexeril).81Figure 2: Fragment of the entailment graph for ?asthma?
(top), and its conversion to a DAG (bottom).3.2 Exploration SchemeThe objective of the exploration scheme is to supportquerying and offer facets for result exploration, ina visual manner.
The following components coverthe various aspects of this objective, given the abovesystem inputs:Querying The user enters a search term as a query,e.g., ?asthma?.
The given term induces a subgraph ofthe entailment graph that contains all propositionaltemplates (graph nodes) with which this term ap-pears as an argument in the extracted propositions(see Figure 2).
This subgraph is represented as aDAG, as explained in Section 3.1, where all nodesthat have no parent are defined as the roots of theDAG.
As a starting point, only the roots of the DAGare displayed to the user.
Figure 4 shows the fiveroots for the ?asthma?
query.Exploration process The user selects one of theentailment graph nodes (e.g., ?associate X withasthma?).
At each exploration step, the user candrill down to a more specific template or drill up to aFigure 3: Partial medical taxonomy.
Ellipses denote con-cepts, while rectangles denote terms.Figure 4: The roots of the entailment graph for the?asthma?
query.more general template, by moving along the entail-ment hierarchy.
For example, the user in Figure 5,expands the root ?associate X with asthma?, in orderto drill down through ?X affect asthma?
to ?X controlAsthma?.Selecting a propositional template (Figure 1, leftcolumn) displays a concept taxonomy for the argu-ments that correspond to the variable in the selectedtemplate (Figure 1, middle column).
The user canexplore these argument concepts by drilling up anddown the concept taxonomy.
For example, in Fig-ure 1 the user, who selected ?X control Asthma?,explores the arguments of this template by drillingdown the taxonomy to the concept ?Hormone?.Selecting a concept opens a third column, whichlists the terms mapped to this concept that occurredas arguments of the selected template.
For example,in Figure 1, the user is examining the list of argu-ments for the template ?X control Asthma?, whichare mapped to the concept ?Hormone?, focusing onthe argument ?prednisone?.82Figure 5: Part of the entailment graph for the ?asthma?query, after two exploration steps.
This corresponds tothe left column in Figure 1.Document retrieval At any stage, the list of docu-ments induced by the current selected template, con-cept and argument is presented to the user, wherein each document snippet the relevant propositioncomponents are highlighted.
Figure 1 (bottom)shows such a retrieved document.
The highlightedextraction in the snippet, ?prednisone treat asthma?,entails the proposition selected during exploration,?prednisone control asthma?.4 System ArchitectureIn this section we briefly describe system compo-nents, as illustrated in the block diagram (Figure 6).The search service implements full-text andfaceted search, and document indexing.
The dataservice handles data (e.g., documents) replicationfor clients.
The entailment service handles the logicof the entailment relations (for both the entailmentgraph and the taxonomy).The index server applies periodic indexing of newtexts, and the exploration server serves the explo-ration application on querying, exploration, and dataFigure 6: Block diagram of the exploration system.access.
The exploration application is the front-enduser application for the whole exploration processdescribed above (Section 3.2).5 Application to the Health-care DomainAs a prominent use case, we applied our explorationsystem to the health-care domain.
With the adventof the internet and social media, patients now haveaccess to new sources of medical information: con-sumer health articles, forums, and social networks(Boulos and Wheeler, 2007).
A typical non-experthealth information searcher is uncertain about herexact questions and is unfamiliar with medical ter-minology (Trivedi, 2009).
Exploring relevant infor-mation about a given medical issue can be essentialand time-critical.System implementation For the search service,we used SolR servlet, where the data service isbuilt over FTP.
The exploration application is im-plemented as a web application.Input resources We collected a health-care cor-pus from the web, which contains more than 2Msentences and about 50M word tokens.
The textsdeal with various aspects of the health care domain:answers to questions, surveys on diseases, articleson life-style, etc.
We extracted propositions fromthe health-care corpus, by applying the method de-scribed by Berant et al (2010).
The corpus wasparsed, and propositions were extracted from depen-dency trees according to the method suggested byLin and Pantel (2001), where propositions are de-pendency paths between two arguments of a predi-83cate.
We filtered out any proposition where one ofthe arguments is not a term mapped to a medicalconcept in the UMLS taxonomy.For the entailment graph we used the 23 entail-ment graphs published by Berant et al2.
For the ar-gument taxonomy we employed UMLS ?
a databasethat maps natural language phrases to over one mil-lion unique concept identifiers (CUIs) in the health-care domain.
The CUIs are also mapped in UMLSto a concept taxonomy for the health-care domain.The web application of our system isavailable at: http://132.70.6.148:8080/exploration6 Conclusion and Future WorkWe presented a novel exploration model, which ex-tends the scope of state-of-the-art exploration tech-nologies by moving from standard concept-basedexploration to proposition-based exploration.
Ourmodel combines the textual entailment paradigmwithin the exploration process, with application tothe health-care domain.
According to our model, itis the entailment relation between propositions, en-coded by the entailment graph and the taxonomy,which leads the user between more specific andmore general statements throughout the search re-sult space.
We believe that employing the entail-ment relation between propositions, which focuseson the statements expressed in the documents, cancontribute to the exploration field and improve in-formation access.Our current application to the health-care domainrelies on a small set of entailment graphs for 23medical concepts.
Our ongoing research focuses onthe challenging task of learning a larger entailmentgraph for the health-care domain.
We are also in-vestigating methods for evaluating the explorationprocess (Borlund and Ingwersen, 1997).
As notedby Qu and Furnas (2008), the success of an ex-ploratory search system does not depend simply onhow many relevant documents will be retrieved for agiven query, but more broadly on how well the sys-tem helps the user with the exploratory process.2http://www.cs.tau.ac.il/?jonatha6/homepage_files/resources/HealthcareGraphs.rarAcknowledgmentsThis work was partially supported by the IsraelMinistry of Science and Technology, the PASCAL-2 Network of Excellence of the European Com-munity FP7-ICT-2007-1-216886, and the Euro-pean Communitys Seventh Framework Programme(FP7/2007-2013) under grant agreement no.
287923(EXCITEMENT).ReferencesMichele Banko, Michael J Cafarella, Stephen Soderl,Matt Broadhead, and Oren Etzioni.
2007.
Open in-formation extraction from the web.
In Proceedings ofIJCAI, pages 2670?2676.Jonathan Berant, Ido Dagan, and Jacob Goldberger.2010.
Global learning of focused entailment graphs.In Proceedings of ACL, Uppsala, Sweden.Pia Borlund and Peter Ingwersen.
1997.
The develop-ment of a method for the evaluation of interactive in-formation retrieval systems.
Journal of Documenta-tion, 53:225?250.Maged N. Kamel Boulos and Steve Wheeler.
2007.
Theemerging web 2.0 social software: an enabling suite ofsociable technologies in health and health care educa-tion.
Health Information & Libraries, 24:2?23.Ido Dagan, Bill Dolan, Bernardo Magnini, and Dan Roth.2009.
Recognizing textual entailment: Rational, eval-uation and approaches.
Natural Language Engineer-ing, 15(Special Issue 04):i?xvii.Anthony Fader, Stephen Soderland, and Oren Etzioni.2011.
Identifying relations for open information ex-traction.
In EMNLP, pages 1535?1545.
ACL.Thomas Hofmann.
1999.
The cluster-abstraction model:Unsupervised learning of topic hierarchies from textdata.
In Proceedings of IJCAI, pages 682?687.Mika Ka?ki.
2005.
Findex: search result categories helpusers when document ranking fails.
In Proceedingsof SIGCHI, CHI ?05, pages 131?140, New York, NY,USA.
ACM.Dekang Lin and Patrick Pantel.
2001.
Discovery of infer-ence rules for question answering.
Natural LanguageEngineering, 7:343?360.Yan Qu and George W. Furnas.
2008.
Model-driven for-mative evaluation of exploratory search: A study un-der a sensemaking framework.
Inf.
Process.
Manage.,44:534?555.Emilia Stoica and Marti A. Hearst.
2007.
Automatingcreation of hierarchical faceted metadata structures.
InProceedings of NAACL HLT.Mayank Trivedi.
2009.
A study of search engines forhealth sciences.
International Journal of Library andInformation Science, 1(5):69?73.84
