Proceedings of the 50th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics, pages 228?232,Jeju, Republic of Korea, 8-14 July 2012. c?2012 Association for Computational LinguisticsEvent Linking: Grounding Event Reference in a News ArchiveJoel Nothman?
and Matthew Honnibal+ and Ben Hachey# and James R.
Curran??
e-lab, School of ITUniversity of SydneyNSW, Australia?Capital Markets CRC55 Harrington StSydneyNSW, Australia{joel,james}@it.usyd.edu.au+Department ofComputingMacquarie UniversityNSW, Australia#R&D, ThomsonReuters CorporationSt.
PaulMN, USA{honnibal,ben.hachey}@gmail.comAbstractInterpreting news requires identifying its con-stituent events.
Events are complex linguis-tically and ontologically, so disambiguatingtheir reference is challenging.
We introduceevent linking, which canonically labels anevent reference with the article where it wasfirst reported.
This implicitly relaxes corefer-ence to co-reporting, and will practically en-able augmenting news archives with semantichyperlinks.
We annotate and analyse a corpusof 150 documents, extracting 501 links to anews archive with reasonable inter-annotatoragreement.1 IntroductionInterpreting news requires identifying its constituentevents.
Information extraction (IE) makes this feasi-ble by considering only events of a specified type,such as personnel succession or arrest (Grishmanand Sundheim, 1996; LDC, 2005), an approach notextensible to novel events, or the same event typesin sub-domains, e.g.
sport.
On the other hand, topicdetection and tracking (TDT; Allan, 2002) disregardsindividual event mentions, clustering together arti-cles that share a topic.Between these fine and coarse-grained ap-proaches, event identification requires grouping ref-erences to the same event.
However, strict corefer-ence is hampered by the complexity of event seman-tics: poison, murder and die may indicate the sameeffective event.
The solution is to tag mentions witha canonical identifier for each news-triggering event.This paper introduces event linking: given a pastevent reference in context, find the article in a newsarchive that first reports that the event happened.The task has an immediate practical application:some online newspapers link past event mentions torelevant news stories, but currently do so with lowcoverage and consistency; an event linker can addreferentially-precise hyperlinks to news.The event linking task parallels entity link-ing (NEL; Ji and Grishman, 2011), considering anews archive as a knowledge base (KB) of events,where each article exclusively represents the zero ormore events that it first reports.
Coupled with an ap-propriate event extractor, event linking may be per-formed for all events mentioned in a document, likethe named entity disambiguation task (Bunescu andPas?ca, 2006; Cucerzan, 2007).We have annotated and analysed 150 news andopinion articles, marking references to past, news-worthy events, and linking where possible to canon-ical articles in a 13-year news archive.2 The events in a news storyApproaches to news event processing are subsumedwithin broader notions of topics, scenario templates,or temporal entities, among others.
We illustrate keychallenges in processing news events and motivateevent linking through the example story in Figure 1.Salience Our story highlights carjackings and apolice warning as newsworthy, alongside events likefeeding, drove and told which carry less individualweight.
Orthogonally, parts of the story are newevents, while others are previously reported eventsthat the reader may be aware of (illustrated in Fig-ure 1).
Online, the two background carjackings andthe police warning are hyperlinked to other SMH arti-cles where they were reported.
Event schemas tendnot to directly address salience: MUC-style IE (Gr-228N Sydney man carjacked at knifepointThere has been another carjacking in Sydney,B two weeks after two people were stabbed in their cars inseparate incidents.N A 32-year-old driver was walking to his station wagon onHickson Road, Millers Point, after feeding his parking me-ter about 4.30pm yesterday when a man armed with aknife grabbed him and told him to hand over his car keysand mobile phone, police said.
The carjacker then drovethe black 2008 Holden Commodore.
.
.
He was describedas a 175-centimetre-tall Caucasian.
.
.B Police warned Sydney drivers to keep their car doorslocked after two stabbings this month.
On September 4,a 40-year-old man was stabbed when three men tried tosteal his car on Rawson Street, Auburn, about 1.20am.The next day, a 25-year-old woman was stabbed in herlower back as she got into her car on Liverpool Road.
.
.Figure 1: Possible event mentions marked in an ar-ticle from SMH, segmented into news (N) and back-ground (B) event portions.ishman and Sundheim, 1996) selects an event typeof which all instances are salient; TDT (Allan, 2002)operates at the document level, which avoids differ-entiating event mentions; and TimeML (Pustejovskyet al, 2003) marks the main event in each sentence.Critiquing ACE05 event detection for not addressingsalience, Ji et al (2009) harness cross-document fre-quencies for event ranking.
Similarly, reference to apreviously-reported event implies it is newsworthy.Diversity IE traditionally targets a selected eventtype (Grishman and Sundheim, 1996).
ACE05 con-siders a broader event typology, dividing eightthematic event types (business, justice, etc.)
into33 subtypes such as attack, die and declarebankruptcy (LDC, 2005).
Most subtypes suffer fromfew annotated instances, while others are impracti-cally broad: sexual abuse, gunfire and the Holocausteach constitute attack instances (is told consideredan attack in Figure 1?).
Inter-annotator agreementis low for most types.1 While ACE05 would markthe various attack events in our story, police warnedwould be unrecognised.
Despite template adapta-tion (Yangarber et al, 2000; Filatova et al, 2006;Li et al, 2010; Chambers and Jurafsky, 2011), eventtypes are brittle to particular tasks and domains, suchas bio-text mining (e.g.
Kim et al, 2009); they can-not reasonably handle novel events.1For binary sentence classification, we calculate an inter-quartile range of ?
?
[0.46, 0.64] over the 33 sub-types.
Coarseevent type classification ranges from ?
= 0.47 for business to?
= 0.69 for conflict.Identity Event coreference is complicated by par-titive (sub-event) and logical (e.g.
causation) re-lationships between events, in addition to lexical-semantic and syntactic issues.
When consider-ing the relationship between another carjacking andgrabbed, drove or stabbed, ACE05 would apply thepolicy: ?When in doubt, do not mark any corefer-ence?
(LDC, 2005).
Bejan and Harabagiu (2008)consider event coreference across documents, mark-ing the ?most important events?
(Bejan, 2010), al-beit within Google News clusters, where multiplearticles reporting the same event are likely to usesimilar language.
Similar challenges apply to iden-tifying event causality and other relations: Bejanand Harabagiu (2008) suggest arcs such as feedingprecedes????
?walking enables????
grabbed ?
akin to instantia-tions of FrameNet?s frame relations (Fillmore et al,2003).
However, these too are semantically subtle.Explicit reference By considering events throughtopical document clusters, TDT avoids some chal-lenges of precise identity.
It prescribes rules of in-terpretation for which stories pertain to a seminalevent.
However, the carjackings in our story areneither preconditions nor consequences of a semi-nal event and so would not constitute a TDT clus-ter.
TDT fails to account for these explicit event ref-erences.
Though Feng and Allan (2009) and Yanget al (2009) consider event dependency as directedarcs between documents or paragraphs, they gener-ally retain a broad sense of topic with little attentionto explicit reference.3 The event linking taskGiven an explicit reference to a past event, eventlinking grounds it in a given news archive.
This ap-plies to all events worthy of having been reported,and harnesses explicit reference rather than moregeneral notions of relevance.
Though analogous toNEL, our task differs in the types of expressions thatmay be linked, and the manner of determining thecorrect KB node to link to, if any.3.1 Event-referring expressionsWe consider a subset of newsworthy events ?
thingsthat happen and directly trigger news ?
as candidatereferents.
In TimeML?s event classification (Puste-jovsky et al, 2003), newsworthy events would gen-229erally be occurrence (e.g.
die, build, sell) or aspec-tual (e.g.
begin, discontinue), as opposed to percep-tion (e.g.
hear), intentional state (e.g.
believe), etc.Still, we are not confined to these types when otherclasses of event are newsworthy.
All references mustbe explicit, reporting the event as factual and com-pleted or ongoing.Not all event references meeting these criteria arereasonably LINKABLE to a single article:MULTIPLE many distinct events, or an event type,e.g.
world wars, demand;AGGREGATE emerges from other events over time,e.g.
grew 15%, scored 100 goals;COMPLEX an event reported over multiple articlesin terms of its sub-events, e.g.
2012 election,World Cup, scandal.3.2 A news archive as a KBWe define a canonical link target for each event: theearliest article in the archive that reports the givenevent happened or is happening.
Each archival arti-cle implicitly represents zero or more related events,just as Wikipedia entries represent zero or one entityin NEL.
Links target the story as a whole: closelyrelated, co-reported events link to the same article,avoiding a problematically strict approach to eventidentity.
An archive reports only selected events, soa valid target may not exist (NEL?s NIL).4 An annotated corpusWe link to a digital archive of the Sydney Morn-ing Herald: Australian and international news from1986 to 2009, published daily, Monday to Saturday.2We annotate a randomly sampled corpus of 150 arti-cles from its 2009 News and Features and Businesssections including news reports, op-eds and letters.For this whole-document annotation, a singleword of each past/ongoing, newsworthy event men-tion is marked.3 If LINKABLE, the annotatorsearches the archive by keyword and date, selectinga target, reported here (a self-referential link) or NIL.An annotation of our example story (Figure 1) wouldproduce five groups of event references (Table 1).2The archive may be searched at http://newsstore.smh.com.au/apps/newsSearch.ac3We couple marking and linking since annotators must learnto judge newsworthiness relative to the target archive.Mentions Annotation category / linkcarjacking; LINKABLE, reported heregrabbed [him][were] stabbed; MULTIPLEincidents; stabbings[Police] warned LINKABLE, linked: Sydney driverstold: lock your doors[man] stabbed LINKABLE, linked: Driver stabbedafter Sydney carjacking[woman] stabbed LINKABLE, linked: Car attack:Driver stabbed in the backTable 1: Event linking annotations for Figure 1Agreement unit AB AC JA JB JCToken has a link 27 21 61 42 34Link target on agreed token 48 73 84 83 74Set of link targets per document 31 40 69 51 45Link date on agreed token 61 80 87 93 89Set of link dates per document 36 44 71 54 56Table 2: Inter-annotator and adjudicator F1 scoresAll documents were annotated by external anno-tator A; external annotators B and C annotated 72and 24 respectively; and all were adjudicated by thefirst author (J).
Pairwise inter-annotator agreementin Table 2 shows that annotators infrequently selectthe same words to link, but that reasonable agree-ment on the link target can be achieved for agreedtokens.4 Adjudicator-annotator agreements are gen-erally much higher than inter-annotator agreements:in many cases, an annotator fails to find a targetor selects one that does not first report the event;J accepts most annotations as valid.
In other cases,there may be multiple articles published on the sameday that describe the event in question from differ-ent angles; agreement increases substantially whenrelaxed to accept date agreement.
Our adjudicatedcorpus of 150 documents is summarised in Table 3.Where a definitive link target is not available, anannotator may erroneously select another candidate:an opinion article describing the event, an articlewhere the event is mentioned as background, or anarticle anticipating the event.The task is complicated by changed perspectivebetween an event?s first report and its later reference.4?
?
F1 for the binary token task (F1 accounts for the ma-jority class) and for the sparse link targets/date selection.230Category Mentions Types DocsAny markable 2136 655 149LINKABLE 1399 417 144linked 501 229 99reported here 667 111 111nil 231 77 77COMPLEX 220 79 79MULTIPLE 328 102 102AGGREGATE 189 57 57Table 3: Annotation frequencies: no.
of mentions,distinct per document, and document frequencyCan overpayed link to what had been acquired?
Can10 died be linked to an article where only nine areconfirmed dead?
For the application of adding hy-perlinks to news, such a link might be beneficial, butit may be better considered an AGGREGATE.The schema underspecifies definitions of ?event?and ?newsworthiness?, accounting for much of thetoken-level disagreement, but not directly affectingthe task of linking a specified mention to the archive.Adjectival mentions such as Apple?s new CEO areeasy to miss and questionably explicit.
Events arealso confused with facts and abstract entities, suchas bans, plans, reports and laws.
Unlike many otherfacts, events can be grounded to a particular time ofoccurrence, often stated in text.5 Analysis and discussionTo assess task feasibility, we present bag-of-words(BoW) and oracle results (Figure 2).
Using the wholedocument as a query5 retrieves 30% of gold targetsat rank 10, but only 60% by rank 150.
Term win-dows around each event mention perform close toour oracle consisting of successful search keywordscollected during annotation, with over 80% recall at150.
No system recalls over 30% of targets at 1-best,suggesting a reranking approach may be required.Constraining search result dates is essential; an-notators?
constraints improve recall by 20% at rank50.
These constraints may draw on temporal expres-sions in the source article or external knowledge.Successful automated linking will therefore requireextensive use of semantic and temporal information.Our corpus also highlights distinctions between5Using Apache Solr defaults: TFIDF-weighted cosine simi-larity over stemmed and stopped tokens.0 25 50 75 100 125 150 175 200Rank (number of documents returned)0102030405060708090100Link targets found (%)Annotator terms + date constraintAnnotator termsMention 31-word windowWhole documentFigure 2: Recall for BoW and oracle systemsexplicit event reference and broader relationships.Yang et al (2009) makes the reasonable assumptionthat news events generally build on others that re-cently precede them.
We find that the likelihooda linked article occurred fewer than d days ago re-duces exponentially with respect to d, yet the rateof decay is surprisingly slow: half of all link targetsprecede their source by over 3 months.The effect of coreporting rather than coreferenceis also clear: like {carjacking, grabbed} in our ex-ample, mention chains include {return, decide, re-contest}, {winner, Cup} as well as more familiar in-stances like {acquired, acquisition}.6 ConclusionWe have introduced event linking, which takes anovel approach to news event reference, associatingeach newsworthy past event with a canonical arti-cle in a news archive.
We demonstrate task?s fea-sibility, with reasonable inter-annotator agreementover a 150 document corpus.
The corpus highlightsfeatures of the retrieval task and its dependence ontemporal knowledge.
As well as using event link-ing to add referentially precise hyperlinks to a newsarchive, further characteristics of news will emergeby analysing the graph of event references.7 AcknowledgementsWe are grateful to the reviewers for their comments.The work was supported by Capital Markets CRCpost-doctoral fellowships (BH; MH) and PhD Schol-arship (JN); a University of Sydney VCRS (JN); andARC Discovery Grant DP1097291 (JRC).231ReferencesJames Allan, editor.
2002.
Topic Detection and Track-ing: Event-based Information Organization.
KluwerAcademic Publishers, Boston, MA.Cosmin Adrian Bejan and Sanda Harabagiu.
2008.
Alinguistic resource for discovering event structures andresolving event coreference.
In Proceedings of the 6thInternational Conference on Language Resources andEvaluation, Marrakech, Morocco.Cosmin Adrian Bejan.
2010.
Private correspondence,November.Razvan Bunescu and Marius Pas?ca.
2006.
Using ency-clopedic knowledge for named entity disambiguation.In Proceedings of the 11th Conference of the EuropeanChapter of the Association for Computational Linguis-tics, pages 9?16.Nathanael Chambers and Dan Jurafsky.
2011.
Template-based information extraction without the templates.
InProceedings of the 49th Annual Meeting of the Asso-ciation for Computational Linguistics: Human Lan-guage Technologies, pages 976?986, Portland, Ore-gon, USA, June.Silviu Cucerzan.
2007.
Large-scale named entity dis-ambiguation based on Wikipedia data.
In Proceedingsof the 2007 Joint Conference on Empirical Methodsin Natural Language Processing and ComputationalNatural Language Learning, pages 708?716.Ao Feng and James Allan.
2009.
Incident threadingfor news passages.
In CIKM ?09: Proceedings ofthe 18th ACM international conference on Informationand knowledge management, pages 1307?1316, HongKong, November.Elena Filatova, Vasileios Hatzivassiloglou, and Kath-leen McKeown.
2006.
Automatic creation of do-main templates.
In Proceedings of the COLING/ACL2006 Main Conference Poster Sessions, pages 207?214, Sydney, Australia, July.Charles J. Fillmore, Christopher R. Johnson, and MiriamR.
L. Petruck.
2003.
Background to FrameNet.
Inter-national Journal of Lexicography, 16(3):235?250.Ralph Grishman and Beth Sundheim.
1996.
Message un-derstanding conference ?
6: A brief history.
In COL-ING 1996 Volume 1: The 16th International Confer-ence on Computational Linguistics.Heng Ji and Ralph Grishman.
2011.
Knowledge basepopulation: Successful approaches and challenges.
InProceedings of the 49th Annual Meeting of the Asso-ciation for Computational Linguistics: Human Lan-guage Technologies, pages 1148?1158, Portland, Ore-gon, June.Heng Ji, Ralph Grishman, Zheng Chen, and PrashantGupta.
2009.
Cross-document event extraction andtracking: Task, evaluation, techniques and challenges.In Proceedings of Recent Advances in Natural Lan-guage Processing, September.Jin-Dong Kim, Tomoko Ohta, Sampo Pyysalo, Yoshi-nobu Kano, and Jun?ichi Tsujii.
2009.
Overview ofBioNLP?09 shared task on event extraction.
In Pro-ceedings of the BioNLP 2009 Workshop CompanionVolume for Shared Task, pages 1?9, Boulder, Col-orado, June.LDC.
2005.
ACE (Automatic Content Extraction) En-glish annotation guidelines for events.
Linguistic DataConsortium, July.
Version 5.4.3.Hao Li, Xiang Li, Heng Ji, and Yuval Marton.
2010.Domain-independent novel event discovery and semi-automatic event annotation.
In Proceedings of the24th Pacific Asia Conference on Language, Informa-tion and Computation, Sendai, Japan, November.James Pustejovsky, Jos?
Casta no, Robert Ingria, RoserSaur?, Robert Gaizauskas, Andrea Setzer, and Gra-ham Katz.
2003.
TimeML: Robust specification ofevent and temporal expressions in text.
In Proceedingsof the Fifth International Workshop on ComputationalSemantics.Christopher C. Yang, Xiaodong Shi, and Chih-Ping Wei.2009.
Discovering event evolution graphs from newscorpora.
IEEE Transactions on Systems, Man and Cy-bernetics, Part A: Systems and Humans, 34(4):850?863, July.Roman Yangarber, Ralph Grishman, and PasiTapanainen.
2000.
Automatic acquisition of do-main knowledge for information extraction.
In InProceedings of the 18th International Conference onComputational Linguistics, pages 940?946.232
