Proceedings of the 50th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics, pages 161?165,Jeju, Republic of Korea, 8-14 July 2012. c?2012 Association for Computational LinguisticsA Comprehensive Gold Standard for the Enron Organizational HierarchyApoorv Agarwal1* Adinoyi Omuya1** Aaron Harnly2?
Owen Rambow3?1 Department of Computer Science, Columbia University, New York, NY, USA2 Wireless Generation Inc., Brooklyn, NY, USA3 Center for Computational Learning Systems, Columbia University, New York, NY, USA* apoorv@cs.columbia.edu ** awo2108@columbia.edu?aaron@cs.columbia.edu ?rambow@ccls.columbia.eduAbstractMany researchers have attempted to predictthe Enron corporate hierarchy from the data.This work, however, has been hampered bya lack of data.
We present a new, large, andfreely available gold-standard hierarchy.
Us-ing our new gold standard, we show that asimple lower bound for social network-basedsystems outperforms an upper bound on theapproach taken by current NLP systems.1 IntroductionSince the release of the Enron email corpus, manyresearchers have attempted to predict the Enron cor-porate hierarchy from the email data.
This work,however, has been hampered by a lack of data aboutthe organizational hierarchy.
Most researchers haveused the job titles assembled by (Shetty and Adibi,2004), and then have attempted to predict the rela-tive ranking of two people?s job titles (Rowe et al,2007; Palus et al, 2011).
A major limitation of thelist compiled by Shetty and Adibi (2004) is that itonly covers those ?core?
employees for whom thecomplete email inboxes are available in the Enrondataset.
However, it is also interesting to determinewhether we can predict the hierarchy of other em-ployees, for whom we only have an incomplete setof emails (those that they sent to or received fromthe core employees).
This is difficult in particularbecause there are dominance relations between twoemployees such that no email between them is avail-able in the Enron data set.
The difficulties with theexisting data have meant that researchers have ei-ther not performed quantitative analyses (Rowe etal., 2007), or have performed them on very smallsets: for example, (Bramsen et al, 2011a) use 142dominance pairs for training and testing.We present a new resource (Section 3).
It is a largegold-standard hierarchy, which we extracted manu-ally from pdf files.
Our gold standard contains 1,518employees, and 13,724 dominance pairs (pairs ofemployees such that the first dominates the secondin the hierarchy, not necessarily immediately).
Allof the employees in the hierarchy are email corre-spondents on the Enron email database, though ob-viously many are not from the core group of about158 Enron employees for which we have the com-plete inbox.
The hierarchy is linked to a threadedrepresentation of the Enron corpus using shared IDsfor the employees who are participants in the emailconversation.
The resource is available as a Mon-goDB database.We show the usefulness of this resource by inves-tigating a simple predictor for hierarchy based onsocial network analysis (SNA), namely degree cen-trality of the social network induced by the emailcorrespondence (Section 4).
We call this a lowerbound for SNA-based systems because we are onlyusing a single simple metric (degree centrality) toestablish dominance.
Degree centrality is one ofthe features used by Rowe et al (2007), but theydid not perform a quantitative evaluation, and to ourknowledge there are no published experiments us-ing only degree centrality.
Current systems usingnatural language processing (NLP) are restricted tomaking informed predictions on dominance pairs forwhich email exchange is available.
We show (Sec-tion 5) that the upper bound performance of such161NLP-based systems is much lower than our SNA-based system on the entire gold standard.
We alsocontrast the simple SN-based system with a specificNLP system based on (Gilbert, 2012), and show thateven if we restrict ourselves to pairs for which emailexchange is available, our simple SNA-based sys-tems outperforms the NLP-based system.2 Work on Enron Hierarchy PredictionThe Enron email corpus was introduced by Klimtand Yang (2004).
Since then numerous researchershave analyzed the network formed by connectingpeople with email exchange links (Diesner et al,2005; Shetty and Adibi, 2004; Namata et al, 2007;Rowe et al, 2007; Diehl et al, 2007; Creamer et al,2009).
Rowe et al (2007) use the email exchangenetwork (and other features) to predict the domi-nance relations between people in the Enron emailcorpus.
They however do not present a quantitativeevaluation.Bramsen et al (2011b) and Gilbert (2012) presentNLP based models to predict dominance relationsbetween Enron employees.
Neither the test-set northe system of Bramsen et al (2011b) is publiclyavailable.
Therefore, we compare our baseline SNAbased system with that of Gilbert (2012).
Gilbert(2012) produce training and test data as follows: anemail message is labeled upward only when everyrecipient outranks the sender.
An email message islabeled not-upward only when every recipient doesnot outrank the sender.
They use an n-gram basedmodel with Support Vector Machines (SVM) to pre-dict if an email is of class upward or not-upward.They make the phrases (n-grams) used by their bestperforming system publicly available.
We use theirn-grams with SVM to predict dominance relationsof employees in our gold standard and show that asimple SNA based approach outperforms this base-line.
Moreover, Gilbert (2012) exploit dominancerelations of only 132 people in the Enron corpus forcreating their training and test data.
Our gold stan-dard has dominance relations for 1518 Enron em-ployees.3 The Enron Hierarchy Gold StandardKlimt and Yang (2004) introduced the Enron emailcorpus.
They reported a total of 619,446 emailstaken from folders of 158 employees of the Enroncorporation.
We created a database of organizationalhierarchy relations by studying the original Enronorganizational charts.
We discovered these chartsby performing a manual, random survey of a fewhundred emails, looking for explicit indications ofhierarchy.
We found a few documents with organi-zational charts, which were always either Excel orVisio files.
We then searched all remaining emailsfor attachments of the same filetype, and exhaus-tively examined those with additional org charts.
Wethen manually transcribed the information containedin all org charts we found.Our resulting gold standard has a total of 1518nodes (employees) which are described as be-ing in immediate dominance relations (manager-subordinate).
There are 2155 immediate dominancerelations spread over 65 levels of dominance (CEO,manager, trader etc.)
From these relations, weformed the transitive closure and obtained 13,724hierarchal relations.
For example, if A immediatelydominates B and B immediately dominates C, thenthe set of valid organizational dominance relationsare A dominates B, B dominates C and A domi-nates C. This data set is much larger than any otherdata set used in the literature for the sake of predict-ing organizational hierarchy.We link this representation of the hierarchy to thethreaded Enron corpus created by Yeh and Harnley(2006).
They pre-processed the dataset by combin-ing emails into threads and restoring some missingemails from their quoted form in other emails.
Theyalso co-referenced multiple email addresses belong-ing to one person, and assigned unique identifiersand names to persons.
Therefore, each person is a-priori associated with a set of email addresses andnames (or name variants), but has only one uniqueidentifier.
Our corpus contains 279,844 email mes-sages.
These messages belong to 93,421 unique per-sons.
We use these unique identifiers to express ourgold hierarchy.
This means that we can easily re-trieve all emails associated with people in our goldhierarchy, and we can easily determine the hierar-chical relation between the sender and receivers ofany email.The whole set of person nodes is divided into twoparts: core and non-core.
The set of core people arethose whose inboxes were taken to create the Enron162email network (a set of 158 people).
The set of non-core people are the remaining people in the networkwho either send an email to and/or receive an emailfrom a member of the core group.
As expected, theemail exchange network (the network induced fromthe emails) is densest among core people (density of20.997% in the email exchange network), and muchless dense among the non-core people (density of0.008%).Our data base is freely available as a MongoDBdatabase, which can easily be interfaced with usingAPIs in various programming languages.
For infor-mation about how to obtain the database, please con-tact the authors.4 A Hierarchy Predictor Based on theSocial NetworkWe construct the email exchange network as fol-lows.
This network is represented as an undirectedweighted graph.
The nodes are all the unique em-ployees.
We add a link between two employees ifone sends at least one email to the other (who canbe a TO, CC, or BCC recipient).
The weight isthe number of emails exchanged between the two.Our email exchange network consists of 407,095weighted links and 93,421 nodes.Our algorithm for predicting the dominance rela-tion using social network analysis metric is simple.We calculate the degree centrality of every node inthe email exchange network, and then rank the nodesby their degree centrality.
Recall that the degree cen-trality is the proportion of nodes in the network withwhich a node is connected.
(We also tried eigenvaluecentrality, but this performed worse.
For a discus-sion of the use of degree centrality as a valid indica-tion of importance of nodes in a network, see (Chuahand Coman, 2009).)
Let CD(n) be the degree cen-trality of node n, and let DOM be the dominance re-lation (transitive, not symmetric) induced by the or-ganizational hierarchy.
We then simply assume thatfor two people p1 and p2, if CD(p1) > CD(p2),then DOM(p1,p2).
For every pair of people whoare related with an organizational dominance rela-tion in the gold standard, we then predict which per-son dominates the other.
Note that we do not pre-dict if two people are in a dominance relation to be-gin with.
The task of predicting if two people areType # pairs %AccAll 13,724 83.88Core 440 79.31Inter 6436 93.75Non-Core 6847 74.57Table 1: Prediction accuracy by type of predicted organi-zational dominance pair; ?Inter?
means that one elementof the pair is from the core and the other is not; a negativeerror reduction indicates an increase in errorin a dominance relation is different and we do notaddress that task in this paper.
Therefore, we re-strict our evaluation to pairs of people (p1, p2) whoare related hierarchically (i.e., either DOM(p1,p2) orDOM(p2,p1) in the gold standard).
Since we onlypredict the directionality of the dominance relationof people given they are in a hierarchical relation,1the random baseline for our task performs at 50%.We have 13,724 such pairs of people in the goldstandard.
When we use the network induced simplyby the email exchanges, we get a remarkably highaccuracy of 83.88% (Table 1).
We denote this sys-tem by SNAG.In this paper, we also make an observation crucialfor the task of hierarchy prediction, based on the dis-tinction between the core and the non-core groups(see Section 3).
This distinction is crucial for thistask since by definition the degree centrality mea-sure (which depends on how accurately the underly-ing network expresses the communication network)suffers from missing email messages (for the non-core group).
Our results in table 1 confirm this in-tuition.
Since we have a richer network for the coregroup, degree centrality is a better predictor for thisgroup than for the non-core group.We also note that the prediction accuracy is by farthe highest for the inter hierarchal pairs.
The in-ter hierarchal pairs are those in which one node isfrom the core group of people and the other nodeis from the non-core group of people.
This is ex-plained by the fact that the core group was chosenby law enforcement because they were most likelyto contain information relevant to the legal proceed-ings against Enron; i.e., the owners of the mailboxes1This style of evaluation is common (Diehl et al, 2007;Bramsen et al, 2011b).163were more likely more highly placed in the hierar-chy.
Furthermore, because of the network character-istics described above (a relatively dense network),the core people are also more likely to have a highcentrality degree, as compared to the non-core peo-ple.
Therefore, the correlation between centralitydegree and hierarchal dominance will be high.5 Using NLP and SNAIn this section we compare and contrast the per-formance of NLP-based systems with that of SNA-based systems on the Enron hierarchy gold standardwe introduce in this paper.
This gold standard al-lows us to notice an important limitation of the NLP-based systems (for this task) in comparison to SNA-based systems in that the NLP-based systems requirecommunication links between people to make a pre-diction about their dominance relation, whereas anSNA-based system may predict dominance relationswithout this requirement.Table 2 presents the results for four experiments.We first determine an upper bound for current NLP-based systems.
Current NLP-based systems pre-dict dominance relations between a pair of peopleby using the language used in email exchanges be-tween these people; if there is no email exchange,such methods cannot make a prediction.
Let G bethe set of all dominance relations in the gold stan-dard (|G| = 13, 723).
We define T ?
G to bethe set of pairs in the gold standard such that thepeople involved in the pair in T communicate witheach other.
These are precisely the dominance rela-tions in the gold standard which can be establishedusing a current NLP-based approach.
The numberof such pairs is |T | = 2, 640.
Therefore, if weconsider a perfect NLP system that correctly pre-dicts the dominance of 2, 640 tuples and randomlyguesses the dominance relation of the remaining11, 084 tuples, the system would achieve an accu-racy of (2640 + 11084/2)/13724 = 59.61%.
Werefer to this number as the upper bound on the bestperforming NLP system for the gold standard.
Thisupper bound of 59.61% for an NLP-based system islower (24.27% absolute) than a simple SNA-basedsystem (SNAG, explained in section 4) that predictsthe dominance relation for all the tuples in the goldstandard G.As explained in section 2, we use the phrasesprovided by Gilbert (2012) to build an NLP-basedmodel for predicting dominance relations of tuplesin set T ?
G. Note that we only use the tu-ples from the gold standard where the NLP-basedsystem may hope to make a prediction (i.e.
peo-ple in the tuple communicate via email).
This sys-tem, NLPGilbert achieves an accuracy of 82.37%compared to the social network-based approach(SNAT ) which achieves a higher accuracy of87.58% on the same test set T .
This comparisonshows that SNA-based approach out-performs theNLP-based approach even if we evaluate on a muchsmaller part of the gold standard, namely the partwhere an NLP-based approach does not suffer fromhaving to make a random prediction for nodes thatdo not comunicate via email.System Test set # test points %AccUBNLP G 13,724 59.61NLPGilbert T 2604 82.37SNAT T 2604 87.58SNAG G 13,724 83.88Table 2: Results of four systems, essentially comparingperformance of purely NLP-based systems with simpleSNA-based systems.6 Future WorkOne key challenge of the problem of predictingdomination relations of Enron employees based ontheir emails is that the underlying network is incom-plete.
We hypothesize that SNA-based approachesare sensitive to the goodness with which the underly-ing network represents the true social network.
Partof the missing network may be recoverable by an-alyzing the content of emails.
Using sophisticatedNLP techniques, we may be able to enrich the net-work and use standard SNA metrics to predict thedominance relations in the gold standard.AcknowledgmentsWe would like to thank three anonymous reviewersfor useful comments.
This work is supported byNSF grant IIS-0713548.
Harnly was at ColumbiaUniversity while he contributed to the work.164ReferencesPhilip Bramsen, Martha Escobar-Molano, Ami Patel, andRafael Alonso.
2011a.
Extracting social power rela-tionships from natural language.
In ACL, pages 773?782.
The Association for Computer Linguistics.Philip Bramsen, Martha Escobar-Molano, Ami Patel, andRafael Alonso.
2011b.
Extracting social power rela-tionships from natural language.
ACL.Mooi-Choo Chuah and Alexandra Coman.
2009.
Iden-tifying connectors and communities: Understand-ing their impacts on the performance of a dtn pub-lish/subscribe system.
International Conference onComputational Science and Engineering (CSE ?09).Germa?n Creamer, Ryan Rowe, Shlomo Hershkop,and Salvatore J. Stolfo.
2009.
Segmentationand automated social hierarchy detection throughemail network analysis.
In Haizheng Zhang, MyraSpiliopoulou, Bamshad Mobasher, C. Lee Giles, An-drew Mccallum, Olfa Nasraoui, Jaideep Srivastava,and John Yen, editors, Advances in Web Mining andWeb Usage Analysis, pages 40?58.
Springer-Verlag,Berlin, Heidelberg.Christopher Diehl, Galileo Mark Namata, and LiseGetoor.
2007.
Relationship identification for socialnetwork discovery.
AAAI ?07: Proceedings of the22nd National Conference on Artificial Intelligence.Jana Diesner, Terrill L Frantz, and Kathleen M Carley.2005.
Communication networks from the enron emailcorpus it?s always about the people.
enron is no dif-ferent.
Computational & Mathematical OrganizationTheory, 11(3):201?228.Eric Gilbert.
2012.
Phrases that signal workplace hierar-chy.
In Proceedings of the ACM 2012 conference onComputer Supported Cooperative Work (CSCW).Bryan Klimt and Yiming Yang.
2004.
Introducing theenron corpus.
In First Conference on Email and Anti-Spam (CEAS).Galileo Mark S. Namata, Jr., Lise Getoor, and Christo-pher P. Diehl.
2007.
Inferring organizational titlesin online communication.
In Proceedings of the 2006conference on Statistical network analysis, ICML?06,pages 179?181, Berlin, Heidelberg.
Springer-Verlag.Sebastian Palus, Piotr Brodka, and Przemys?awKazienko.
2011.
Evaluation of organization structurebased on email interactions.
International Journal ofKnowledge Society Research.Ryan Rowe, German Creamer, Shlomo Hershkop, andSalvatore J Stolfo.
2007.
Automated social hierar-chy detection through email network analysis.
Pro-ceedings of the 9th WebKDD and 1st SNA-KDD 2007workshop on Web mining and social network analysis,pages 109?117.Jitesh Shetty and Jaffar Adibi.
2004.
Ex employeestatus report.
http://www.isi.edu/?adibi/Enron/Enron_Employee_Status.xls.Jen Yuan Yeh and Aaron Harnley.
2006.
Email threadreassembly using similarity matching.
In Proceedingsof CEAS.165
