Proceedings of the 50th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics, pages 203?207,Jeju, Republic of Korea, 8-14 July 2012. c?2012 Association for Computational LinguisticsMovie-DiC: a Movie Dialogue Corpus for Research and DevelopmentRafael E. BanchsHuman Language TechnologyInstitute for Infocomm ResearchSingapore 138632rembanchs@i2r.a-star.edu.sgAbstractThis paper describes Movie-DiC a MovieDialogue Corpus recently collected for re-search and development purposes.
The col-lected dataset comprises 132,229 dialoguescontaining a total of 764,146 turns thathave been extracted from 753 movies.
De-tails on how the data collection has beencreated and how it is structured are pro-vided along with its main statistics and cha-racteristics.1 IntroductionData driven applications have proliferated in Com-putational Linguistics during the last decade.
Seve-ral factors, such as the availability of more power-ful computers, an almost unlimited storage ca-pacity, the availability of large volumes of data indigital format, as well as the recent advances inmachine learning theory, have significantly con-tributed to such a proliferation.Among the many applications that have benefi-ted from this data-driven boom, probably the mostrepresentative examples are: information retrieval(Qin et al, 2008), machine translation (Brown etal., 1993), question answering (Molla-Aliod andVicedo, 2010) and dialogue systems (Rieser andLemon, 2011).In the specific case of dialogue systems, dataacquisition can impose some challenges dependingon the specific domain and task the dialogue sys-tem is targeted for.
In some specific domains, inwhich human-human dialogue applications alreadyexists, data collection is generally straight forward,while in some other cases, data design and collec-tion can constitute a complex problem (Williamsand Young, 2003; Zue, 2007; Misu et al, 2009).Depending on the objective being pursued, dia-logue systems can be grouped into two major cate-gories: task-oriented and chat-oriented systems.
Inthe first case, the system is required to help theuser to accomplish a specific goal or objective(Busemann et al, 1997; Stallard, 2000).
In the se-cond case, the system objective is mainly entertain-ment oriented.
Systems in this category are re-quired to play, chitchat or just accompany the user(Weizenbaum, 1966; Wallis, 2010).In this work, we focus our attention on dialoguedata which is suitable for training chat-orienteddialogue systems.
Different from task-oriented dia-logue collections (Mann, 2003), instead of beingconcentrated on a specific domain or area ofknowledge, the training dataset for a chat-orienteddialogue system must cover a wide variety of do-mains, as well as be able to provide a fair represen-tation of world-knowledge semantics and prag-matics (Bunt, 2000).
To this end, we have col-lected dialogues from movie scripts aiming atconstructing a dialogue corpus which should pro-vide a good sample of domains, styles and worldknowledge, as well as constitute a valuable re-source for research and development purposes.The rest of the paper is structured as follows.Section 2 describes in detail the implemented col-lection process and the structure of the generateddatabase.
Section 3 presents the main statistics, aswell as the main characteristics of the resultingcorpus.
Finally, section 4 presents our conclusionsand future work plans.2032 Collecting Dialogues from MoviesAs already stated in the introduction, our presenteddialogue corpus has been extracted from moviescripts.
More specifically, scripts freely availablefrom The Internet Movie Script Data Collection(http://www.imsdb.com/) have been used.
In thissection we describe the implemented data collec-tion process and the data structure finally used forthe generated corpus.As a first step of the collection construction,dialogues have to be identified and extracted fromthe crawled html files.
Three basic types of infor-mation elements are extracted from the scripts:speakers, utterances and context.The utterance and speaker information elementscontain what is said at each dialogue turn and thecorresponding character who says it, respectively.Context information elements, on the other hand,contain all additional information/texts appearingin the scripts, which are typically of narrativenature and explain what is happening in the scene.Figure 1 depicts a browser snapshot illustratingthe typical layout of a movie script and the mostcommon spatial distribution of the aforementionedinformation elements.It is important to mention that a lot of differentvariants to the format presented in Figure 1 can beactually encountered in The Internet Movie ScriptData Collection.
Because of this, our parsing al-gorithms had to be revised and adjusted severaltimes in order to achieve a reasonable level ofrobustness that allowed for processing the largestpossible amount of movie scripts.Another important problem was the identifica-tion of dialogue boundaries.
Some heuristics wereimplemented by taking into account the size andnumber of context elements between speaker turns.A post-processing step was also implemented toeither filter out or amend some of the most com-mon parsing errors occurring during the extractionphase.
Some of these errors include: corrupted for-mats, turn continuations, notes inserted within theturn, misspelling of speaker names, etc.In addition to this, a semi-automatic process wasstill necessary to filter out movie scripts exhibitingextremely different layouts or invalid file formats.Approximately, 17% of the movie scripts crawledfrom The Internet Movie Script Data Collectionhad to be discarded.
From a total of 911 crawledscripts, only 753 were successfully processed.Figure 1: Typical layout of a movie scriptThe extracted information was finally organizedin dialogical units, in which the information regar-ding turn sequences inside each dialogue, as wellas dialogue sequences within each movie scriptwas preserved.
Figure 2 illustrates an example ofthe XML representation for one of the dialoguesextracted from Who Framed Roger Rabbit.<dialogue id="47" n_utterances="4"><speaker>VALIANT</speaker><context></context><utterance>You shot Roger.</utterance><speaker>JESSICA RABBIT</speaker><context>Jessica moves the box aside andtugs on the rabbit ears.
The rabbit head popsoff.
Underneath is a Weasle.
In his hand is theColt .45 Buntline.</context><utterance>That's not Roger.
It's one ofDoom's men.
He killed R.K. Maroon.</utterance><speaker>VALIANT</speaker><context></context><utterance>Lady, I guess I had you peggedwrong.</utterance><speaker>JESSICA RABBIT</speaker><context>As they run down thealley...</context><utterance>Don't worry, you're not thefirst.
We better get out of here.</utterance></dialogue>Figure 2: An example of a dialogue unit2043 Movie Dialogue Corpus StatisticsIn this section we present the main statistics of theresulting dialogue corpus and study some of itsmore important properties.
The final dialogue col-lection was the result of successfully processing753 movie scripts.
Table 1 summarizes the mainstatistics of the resulting dialogue collection.Total number of scripts collected 911Total number of scripts processed 753Total number of  dialogues 132,229Total number of  speaker turns 764,146Average amount of dialogues per movie 175.60Average amount of turns per movie 1,014.80Average amount of turns per dialogue 5.78Table 1: Main statistics of the collected moviedialogue datasetMovies were mainly crawled from the action,crime, drama and thriller genres.
However, as eachmovie commonly belongs to more than one singlegenre, much more genres are actually representedin the dataset.
Table 2 summarizes the distributionof movies by genre (notice that, as most of themovies belong to more than one genre, the totalsummation of percentages exceeds 100%).Genre Movies PercentageAction 258 34.26Adventure 133 17.66Animation 22 2.92Comedy 149 19.79Crime 163 21.65Drama 456 60.56Family 31 4.12Fantasy 82 10.89Horror 104 13.81Musical 18 2.39Mystery 95 12.62Romance 123 16.33Sci-Fi 129 17.13Thriller 329 43.69War 25 3.32Western 11 1.46Table 2: Distribution of movies per genreThe first characteristic of the corpus to be ana-lyzed is the distribution of dialogues per movie.This distribution is shown in Figure 3.
As seenfrom the figure, the distribution of dialogues permovie is clearly symmetric around its mean valueof 175 dialogues per movie.
For most of the mo-vies in the collection, a number of dialogues ran-ging from about 100 to 250 were extracted.Figure 3: Distribution of dialogues per movieThe second property of the corpus to be studiedis the distribution of turns per dialogue.
This distri-bution is shown in Figure 4.
As seen from thefigure, this distribution approximates a power lawbehavior, with a large number of very short dia-logues (about 50K two-turn dialogues) and a smallamount of long dialogues (only six dialogues withmore than 200 turns).
The median of the distribu-tion is 5.63 turns per dialogue.Figure 4: Distribution of turns per dialogueThe third property of the corpus to be describedis the distribution of number of speakers per dia-205logue.
This distribution is shown in Figure 5.
Asseen from the bar-plot depicted in the figure, thelargest proportion of dialogues (around 60K) in-volves two speakers.
The second largest proportionof ?dialogues?
(about 35K) involves only a singlespeaker, which means that this subset of the datacollection is actually composed by monologues orsingle speaker interventions.
The third and fourthlarger proportions are those involving three andfour speakers, respectively.Figure 5: Distribution of number of speakers perdialogueFinally, in Figure 6, we present a cross-plot be-tween the number of dialogues and the number ofturns within each movie script.Figure 6: Cross-plot between the number ofdialogues and turns within each movie scriptAs seen from the cross-plot, an average moviehas between 150 and 200 dialogues comprisingbetween 1000 and 1200 turns in total.
The cross-plot also reveals some interesting extreme cases inthe data collection.For instance, movies with few dialogues but ma-ny turns are located towards the upper-left cornerof the figure.
In this zone we can find movies as:Happy Birthday Wanda June, Hannah and HerSisters and All About Eve.
In the lower-left cornerof the figure we can find movies with few dia-logues and few turns, as for instance: 1492 Con-quest of Paradise and The Cooler.In the right side of the figure we find the lots-of-dialogues region.
There we can find movies withlots of very short dialogues (lower-right corner),such as Jimmy and Judy and Walking Tall; or mo-vies with lots of dialogues and turns (upper-rightcorner), such as The Curious Case of BenjaminButton and Jennifer?s Body.4 Conclusions and Future WorkIn this paper, we have described Movie-DiC aMovie Dialogue Corpus that has been collected forresearch and development purposes.
The data col-lection comprises 132,229 dialogues containing atotal of 764,146 turns/utterances that have beenextracted from 753 movies.
Details on how thedata collection has been created and how thecorpus is structured were provided along with themain statistics and characteristics of the corpus.Although strictly speaking, and by its particularnature, Movie-DiC does not constitute a corpus ofreal human-to-human dialogues, it does constitutean excellent dataset for studying the semantic andpragmatic aspects of human communication withina wide variety of contexts, scenarios, styles andsocio-cultural settings.Specific technologies and applications that canexploit a resource like this include, but are not res-tricted to: example-based chat bots (Banchs and Li,2012), question answering systems, discourse andpragmatics analysis, narrative vs. colloquial styleclassification, genre classification, etc.As future work, we intend to expand the currentsize of the collection from 0.7K to 2K movies, aswell as to improve some of our parsing and post-processing algorithms for reducing the amount ofnoise still present in the collection and enhance thequality of the current version of the dataset.206AcknowledgmentsThe author would like to thank the Institute forInfocomm Research for its support and permissionto publish this work.ReferencesBanchs R E, Li H (2012) IRIS: a chat-oriented dialoguesystem based on the vector space model.
In Procee-dings of the 50th Annual Meeting of the ACL, demosession.Brown P, Della Pietra S, Della Pietra V, Mercer R(1993) The mathematics of statistical machine trans-lation: parameter estimation.
Computational Linguis-tics 19(2):263-311.Bunt H (ed) (2000) Abduction, belief, and context indialogue: studies in computational pragmatics.
J.Benjamins.Busemann S, Declerck T, Diagne A, Dini L, Klein J,Schmeier S (1997) Natural language dialogue servicefor appointment scheduling agents.
In Proceedings ofthe 5th Conference on Applied Natural Language Pro-cessing, pp 25-32.Mann W (2003) The Dialogue Diversity Corpus.
Acces-sed online on 16 March 2012 from: http://www-bcf.usc.edu/~billmann/diversity/DDivers-site.htmMisu T, Ohtake K, Hori C, Kashioka H, Nakamura S(2009) Annotating communicative function and se-mantic content in dialogue act for construction ofconsulting dialogue systems.
In Proceedings of theInt.
Conf.
of Spoken Language ProcessingMolla-Aliod D, Vicedo J (2010) Question answering.
InIndurkhya and Damerau (eds) Handbook of NaturalLanguage Processing, pp 485-510.
Chapman & Hall.Qin T, Liu T, Zhang X, Wang D, Xiong W, Li H (2008)Learning to rank relational objects and its applicationto Web search.
In Proceedings of the 17th Interna-tional Conference on World Wide Web, pp 407-416.Rieser V, Lemon O (2011) Reinforcement learning foradaptive dialogue systems: a data-driven methodolo-gy for dialogue management and natural languagegeneration.
Springer.Stallard D (2000) Talk?n?travel: a conversational systemfor air travel planning.
In Proceedings of the 6thConference on Applied Natural Language Proces-sing, pp 68-75.Wallis P (2010) A robot in the kitchen.
In Proceedingsof the ACL 2010 Workshop on Companionable Dia-logue Systems, pp 25-30.Weizenbaum J (1966) ELIZA ?
A computer programfor the study of natural language communication be-tween man and machine.
Communications of theACM 9(1):36-45.Williams J, Young S (2003) Using Wizard-of-Ozsimulations to bootstrap Reinforcement-Learning-based dialog management systems.
In Proceedings ofthe 4th SIGDIAL Workshop on Discourse and Dia-logue.Zue V (2007) On organic interfaces.
In Proceedings ofthe International Conference of Spoken LanguageProcessing.207
