Tutorial Abstracts of ACL 2012, page 6,Jeju, Republic of Korea, 8 July 2012. c?2012 Association for Computational LinguisticsGraph-based Semi-Supervised Learning Algorithms for NLPAmar SubramanyaGoogle Researchasubram@google.comPartha Pratim TalukdarCarnegie Mellon Universityppt@cs.cmu.eduAbstractWhile labeled data is expensive to prepare, ever in-creasing amounts of unlabeled linguistic data arebecoming widely available.
In order to adapt tothis phenomenon, several semi-supervised learning(SSL) algorithms, which learn from labeled as wellas unlabeled data, have been developed.
In a sep-arate line of work, researchers have started to real-ize that graphs provide a natural way to representdata in a variety of domains.
Graph-based SSL al-gorithms, which bring together these two lines ofwork, have been shown to outperform the state-of-the-art in many applications in speech processing,computer vision and NLP.
In particular, recent NLPresearch has successfully used graph-based SSL al-gorithms for PoS tagging (Subramanya et al, 2010),semantic parsing (Das and Smith, 2011), knowledgeacquisition (Talukdar et al, 2008), sentiment anal-ysis (Goldberg and Zhu, 2006) and text categoriza-tion (Subramanya and Bilmes, 2008).Recognizing this promising and emerging area of re-search, this tutorial focuses on graph-based SSL al-gorithms (e.g., label propagation methods).
The tu-torial is intended to be a sequel to the ACL 2008SSL tutorial, focusing exclusively on graph-basedSSL methods and recent advances in this area, whichwere beyond the scope of the previous tutorial.The tutorial is divided in two parts.
In the firstpart, we will motivate the need for graph-based SSLmethods, introduce some standard graph-based SSLalgorithms, and discuss connections between theseapproaches.
We will also discuss how linguistic datacan be encoded as graphs and show how graph-basedalgorithms can be scaled to large amounts of data(e.g., web-scale data).Part 2 of the tutorial will focus on how graph-basedmethods can be used to solve several critical NLPtasks, including basic problems such as PoS tagging,semantic parsing, and more downstream tasks suchas text categorization, information acquisition, andsentiment analysis.
We will conclude the tutorialwith some exciting avenues for future work.Familiarity with semi-supervised learning andgraph-based methods will not be assumed, and thenecessary background will be provided.
Examplesfrom NLP tasks will be used throughout the tutorialto convey the necessary concepts.
At the end of thistutorial, the attendee will walk away with the follow-ing:?
An in-depth knowledge of the current state-of-the-art in graph-based SSL algorithms, and theability to implement them.?
The ability to decide on the suitability ofgraph-based SSL methods for a problem.?
Familiarity with different NLP tasks wheregraph-based SSL methods have been success-fully applied.In addition to the above goals, we hope that this tu-torial will better prepare the attendee to conduct ex-citing research at the intersection of NLP and otheremerging areas with natural graph-structured data(e.g., Computation Social Science).Please visit http://graph-ssl.wikidot.com/ for details.ReferencesDipanjan Das and Noah A. Smith.
2011.
Semi-supervisedframe-semantic parsing for unknown predicates.
In Proceed-ings of the ACL: Human Language Technologies.Andrew B. Goldberg and Xiaojin Zhu.
2006.
Seeing stars whenthere aren?t many stars: graph-based semi-supervised learn-ing for sentiment categorization.
In Proceedings of the Work-shop on Graph Based Methods for NLP.Amarnag Subramanya and Jeff Bilmes.
2008.
Soft-supervisedtext classification.
In EMNLP.Amarnag Subramanya, Slav Petrov, and Fernando Pereira.2010.
Graph-based semi-supervised learning of structuredtagging models.
In EMNLP.Partha Pratim Talukdar, Joseph Reisinger, Marius Pasca,Deepak Ravichandran, Rahul Bhagat, and Fernando Pereira.2008.
Weakly supervised acquisition of labeled class in-stances using graph random walks.
In EMNLP.6
