Proceedings of the 51st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics, pages 67?72,Sofia, Bulgaria, August 4-9 2013. c?2013 Association for Computational LinguisticsPAL: A Chatterbot System for Answering Domain-specific QuestionsYuanchao Liu1 Ming Liu1 Xiaolong Wang1 Limin Wang2 Jingjing Li11 School of Computer Science and Technology, Harbin Institute of Technology,Harbin, China2.
School of public health, Harbin Medical University, Harbin, China{lyc,mliu,wangxl,jjl}@insun.hit.edu.cn, wanglimin2008@163.comAbstractIn this paper, we propose PAL, a prototypechatterbot for answering non-obstructivepsychological domain-specific questions.
Thissystem focuses on providing primarysuggestions or helping people relieve pressureby extracting knowledge from online forums,based on which the chatterbot system isconstructed.
The strategies used by PAL,including semantic-extension-based questionmatching, solution management with personalinformation consideration, and XML-basedknowledge pattern construction, are describedand discussed.
We also conduct a primary testfor the feasibility of our system.1 IntroductionA wide variety of chatterbots andquestion-and-answer (Q&A) systems have beenproposed over the past decades, each withstrengths that make them appropriate forparticular applications.
With numerous advancesin information construction, people increasinglyaim to communicate with computers using naturallanguage.
For example, chatterbots in somee-commerce Web sites can interact withcustomers and provide help similar to a real-lifesecretary (DeeAnna Merz Nagel, 2011; YvetteCol?n, 2011).In this paper, we propose PAL (Psychologist ofArtificial Language), a chatterbot system foranswering non-obstructive psychologicalquestions.
Non-obstructive questions refer toproblems on family, human relationships,marriage, life pressure, learning, work and so on.In these cases, we expect the chatterbot to play anactive role by providing tutoring, solution,support, advice, or even sympathy depending onthe help needed by its users.The difference of PAL from existingchatterbots lies not only in the specific researchfocus of this paper but also in the strategies wedesigned, such as P-XML templates for storing aknowledge base, comprehensive questionmatching method by considering both index andsemantic similarities, and solution managementby considering personal information.
In thefollowing sections, we will briefly discuss relatedwork and then introduce our system and its mainfeatures.2 Related WorkA number of research work on chatterbots(Rafael E. Banchs, Haizhou Li, 2012; Ai Ti Awand Lian Hau Lee, 2012), Q&A systems (ShilinDing, Gao Cong, Chin-Yew Lin, 2008; LeilaKosseim, 2008; Tiphaine Dalmas, 2007), andrelated natural language understandingtechnologies have recently been conducted(Walid S. Saba, 2007; Jing dong, 2009).
Severalstudies on the application of natural languageprocessing technologies for non-obstructivepsychological Q&A systems have also beenpublished (Hai-hu Shi, 2005).Several online psychology counselling Websites with service provided by human experts havealso been established recently (DeeAnna MerzNagel, 2011; Yvette Col?n, 2011).
For these Websites, when the visitors ask similar questions, theexpert may provide the same or very similaranswers repeatedly.
Based on this observation andconsideration, we collected a large number ofcounselling Q&A pairs to extract commonknowledge for the construction of a chatterbotsystem.
Advances in automatic language analysisand processing are used as the bases for theemergence of a complex, task-oriented chatterbotsystem.673 Basic Framework of PALA running screenshot of PAL is shown in Figure1, and its basic system structure is demonstratedin Figure 2.
As shown in Figure 2, the basicprinciples of PAL are as follows:1) All interactions between system and users arescheduled by control logic;2) When the user inputs a question, the systemwill search through its knowledge base forthe matching entry, and then3) The system will respond with an appropriateanswer by analysing both the matched entryand the dialogue history.Figure 1.
Running Screenshot of PALLexicon analysis&extractingfeaturesKnowledgebaseDialog controllogicXML knowledge Engine(Running in background)UserIndexgenerationSemanticextensionKeywordextractionResponseQuestionAnswergenerationCrawing Q&A pairsfrom on-line forumsSolutionmanagementDialog historyanalysisFigure 2.
Basic Framework of PAL4 Conversation Control Strategy of PALThe Q&A process of the PAL system iscoordinated by control logic to communicate withusers effectively.
The basic control logic strategyis shown in Figure 3.Figure 3.
Basic Control Logic of PAL68As shown in Figure 3, the initial state is set towelcome mode, and the system can select asentence from the ?sign on?
list, which will thenprovide a response.
When users enter a question,the system will conduct the necessary analysis.The system?s knowledge base is indexed byClucene1 beforehand.
Thus, the knowledge indexwill be used to search the matched records quickly.If the system can find the matched patternsdirectly and the answer is suitable for the currentuser, one answer will be randomly selected togenerate the response.
Historical information andpersonal information will be analysed whennecessary.
We mainly adopted the method ofELIZA25 Knowledge Construction andQuestion Matching Method, which is an open-source program, toconsider the historical information.
A ?not found?response list is also set to deal with situationswhen no suitable answers can be identified.
Bothsystem utterance and user input will be pushedinto the stack as historical information.
Given thatuser questions are at times very simple, thecombination with historical input may also berequired to determine its meaning.
This step canalso avoid the duplication of utterances.We design P-XML to store the knowledge basefor PAL, as shown in Figure 4.
The knowledgebase for PAL is mainly derived from the Q&Apairs in the BAIDU ZHIDAO community3<?xml version="1.0" encoding="GB2312"?>.
Onequestion usually has many correspondinganswers.<domain name="*"> <qapair speaker="*"><zhidao_question_title>*</zhidao_question_title><zhidao_question_content>*</zhidao_question_content><zhidao_other_answerintersection_number="4">*<entity_and_problemword>*</entity_and_problemword> <peopleword>*</peopleword></zhidao_other_answer><title_extension>*</title_extension></qapair>?</domain>Figure 4.
The Structure of P-XML1 http://sourceforge.net/projects/clucene/2 http://www.codeforge.cn/article/1915543 http://Zhidao.baidu.comAn effective method of capturing the user?smeaning accurately is to create an extension forquestions in the knowledge base.
In this paper, theextension is primarily a synonym expansion of thekeywords of questions, with CILIN (WanxiangChe, 2010) as extension knowledge source.The questions are indexed by Clucene toimprove the retrieval efficiency of the search for amatched entry in the knowledge base.
During theknowledge base searching step, both the index ofthe original form and the extension form of theproblem are used to find the most possiblematched record for the user?s question, as shownin algorithm 1.
Algorithm 1 is used to examine thesimilarity between user input and the recordreturned by Clucene, including traditional andextension similarities.Algorithm 1.
Problem-matching methodBegin1) User inputs question Q;2) Search from the index of original questions andobtain the returned record set RS1;3) For the highest ranked record R1 in RS1,a) compute the similarity sim1 betweenquestion R1 and Q;b) compute the extension similarity sim2between the question extensions of R1 andQ;4) If sim1 is greater than the threshold value T1 orsim2 is greater than the threshold value T2, go tothe solution management stage and obtain theanswers of R1, and then find the candidateanswer using algorithm 2;5) Otherwise, a ?not found?
prompt is given.End6 Response Management MethodOne question usually has many correspondinganswers in the knowledge base, and theseanswers differ in explanation quality.
Thus, thebasic strategy employed by solution managementis to select a reliable answer from the matchedrecord as response, as shown in algorithm 2.Personalised information includes name entity,gender, marital status and age information.
PALmaintains some heuristics rules to help recognizesuch information.
Based on these rules, if oneanswer contains personal information, it will beselected as the candidate answer only when thepersonal information is consistent with that of thecurrent user.
Very concise answers that do not69contain personal information can generally beselected as a candidate answer.Algorithm 2.
Answer-selection methodBegin1) User inputs one question Q;2) The system extracts the speaker role S andpersonal information from Q;3) Use Q as query to conduct information retrievalfrom the index and knowledge base and obtainthe top matched record set R;4) For each matched question Q?
in R, test thefollowing conditions:a) (condition 1) extract the speaker role S?in Q?, and examine if S?
is equal to S;b) (condition 2) extract personalinformation in Q?, and examine if theyare equal to that of in Q?c) For each answer A?
of Q?i.
If no personal information is foundin A?, A?
will be pushed intoresponse list;ii.
If personal information is containedin A?
and if both conditions 1 and 2are true, A?
will be pushed intoresponse list;d) End for5) End forEnd7 ExperimentsFor the current implementation of PAL, the size ofthe knowledge base is approximately 1.2G andcontains six different topics: ?Husband andwife?, ?Family relations?, ?Love affairs?,?Adolescence?, ?Feeling and Mood?, and?Mental tutors?.
Dialogue data collection used inPAL is mainly crawled fromhttp://zhidao.baidu.com, which is one of thelargest Chinese online communities.
Thecriterion for choosing these six categories is alsobecause they are the main topics in BAIDUcommunities about psychological problems.Some information on the knowledge base isgiven in Table 1, in which ?Percent of questionsmatched?
denotes the number of similarquestions found when 100 open questions areinput (we suppose that if the similarity thresholdis bigger than 0.5, then a similar question will bedeemed as ?hit?
in the knowledge base).In 7.1, we examine the feasibility of usingdownloaded dialogue collection for constructingthe knowledge base.
Some dialogue examples aregiven in 7.2.Domain Avg.
ques.lengthNum.
of uniqueTerms in ques.Avg.
ans.lengthNum.
of uniqueterms in ans.Percent of questionsmatched (similarity threshold: 0.5)Size(MB)QS1 58.69 11571 64.13 27312 25 125QS2 54.96 10918 64.92 25185 24 292QS3 59.66 13530 49.52 13664 15 53QS4 42.41 8607 47.11 23492 22 224QS5 63.57 11915 48.86 26860 26 276QS6 31.82 10009 98.55 20896 25 216Table 1.
Information of the knowledge base7.1 System Performance EvaluationAdditional questions and their correspondinganswers beyond the knowledge base are also usedas a test set to evaluate system performance.Concretely, suppose question Q has |A| answers inthe test set.
Q is then input into the system.Suppose the system output is O, we examine ifone best answer exists among |A| answers that arevery similar to O (the similarity is greater thanthreshold T3).
If yes, we then assume that onesuitable answer has been found.
In this way,precision can be calculated as the number ofquestions that have very similar answers in thesystem divided by the number of all inputquestions.The performance evaluation results are shownin Figure 5.
The horizon axis denotes thesimilarity threshold (T1 for sim1 and T2 for sim2)between a user?s input and the questions in theknowledge base.
Sim1 is the original similarity,whereas sim2 is the semantic extension similarity.Different thresholds were used (0.5 to 0.9).
Thesimilarity threshold T3 denotes the similarity70between the answer in the test set and systemoutput O.
From Figures 5 (A) and (B), differentT3 values were used (0.5 to 0.8).Some observations can be made from Figure 5.The average system precision is approximately0.5, and the range is from 0.2 to 0.9.
Basically,when T3 is bigger, the system?s performancetends to decrease because a high T3 value denotesa strict evaluation standard.
Performance alsodiffers between different areas, such that D4, D5and D6 outperform than D1, D2 and D3.When only index is used and both sim1 andsim2 are below the corresponding threshold T1 orT2, the system can still return record set RS2, butthe returned answer may be inconsistent withuser?s question.
Thus, incorporating semanticsearch shown in algorithm 1 is necessary.?A?(Sim.
Thres.
T3=0.5) ?B?(Sim.
Thres.
T3=0.6)(C) (Sim.
Thres.
T3=0.7) (D) (Sim.
Thres.
T3=0.8)Figure 5.
Precision of PAL with different similarity thresholds T3 (The X axis denotes different thresholdsfor sim1 (T1) and sim2 (T2).
For example, 0.5(sim1) indicates that the threshold for sim1 is 0.5, whereas0.5(sim2) suggests that the threshold for sim2 is 0.5.
The Y axis stands for the precision value of differentT1, T2 and T3 values for different areas).7.2?Some Interaction ExamplesTable 2 provides an interaction example of PAL inEnglish.
As users input their questions, the systemcan output the corresponding responses.
The entiredialogue history can also be displayed.
Basically,when users describe their troubles, PAL canprovide some explanation or even try to console theuser.Compared to other chatterbots like Eliza, PALis domain-specific and may provide help to someextent.
Many different answers can usually beidentified.
Thus, the user could input the samequestion many times, with the system providingsuggestions from different angles.
PAL can alsooutput voice by using Xiao-kun and MicrosoftAnna as the text-to-speech (TTS) engine.
Thespeed, volume and echo properties of the voice canbe adjusted.Dialog for Figure 1 (in English)PAL> Hello, you are welcome to communicate withme!
You can input from the left side and press enter toget answer!I> How do I deal with the children who like tocomplain very frequently?PAL>Very simple.
Don't?
let him experience thebenefits of complaining very frequently.I> Why do parents give children so much pressurePAL> Children have pressure indeed; but parents alsohave a lot of pressure.I> Why am I unable to control my emotions, and oftenquarrel with my parents?PAL.> Now you may be in the stage of treason.
Andhave your own uncertain plan for the future, want to beyourself, and do not want to be disturbed.
So whenparents criticize, you will be unhappy.I> How to solve the gap problem?PAL.> Communication, and listening .Table 2.
Example of an interaction with PAL (in English)718 ConclusionsIn this paper, we introduce a simple chatterbot foranswering non-obstructive psychologicalquestions.
The knowledge behind the chatterbot islearned from the Q&A pairs derived from anonline forum using several extraction strategies.The historical and personal information from thedialogues are also incorporated to output anappropriate answer.For future work, we expect to add more featuresto PAL, e.g., enabling the system to ask questionsactively and further improving P-XML to formricher patterns for storing Q&A knowledge.Another interesting aspect would be to add speechinput as well as TTS and to transform PAL into amobile platform for widespread use.AcknowledgmentsThis research was supported by the project of TheNational High Technology Research andDevelopment Program (863 program) of PR Chinaunder a research Grant No.2007AA01Z172?Youth Funds of China social & humanity science(10YJCZH099), and Key Laboratory OpeningFunding of China MOE?MS Key Laboratory ofNatural Language Processing and Speech(HIT.KLOF.2009022).ReferencesAi Ti Aw and Lian Hau Lee.
PersonalizedNormalization for a Multilingual Chat System.Proceedings of the 50th Annual Meeting of theAssociation for Computational Linguistics, Jeju,Republic of Korea, 8-14 July 2012, pages 31?36,DeeAnna Merz Nagel, Kate Anthony.
Text-basedOnline Counseling Chat.
Online Counseling(Second Edition), 2011, Pages 169-182Hai-hu Shi, Yan Feng, LI Dong-mei, HU Ying-fei.Research on on-line psychology consultation expertsystem based on man-machine interaction technique.Computer Engineering and Design.
2005,26(12):3307-3309Jing dong.
Research of sentiment model based onHMM and its application in psychologicalconsulting expert system.
Master?s thesis.
Capitalnormal university (china), 2009.Leila Kosseim, Jamileh Yousefi.
Improving theperformance of question answering withsemantically equivalent answer patterns.
Data &Knowledge Engineering, 2008, 66(1):53-67Rafael E. Banchs, Haizhou Li.
IRIS: a Chat-orientedDialogue System based on the Vector Space Model.Proceedings of the 50th Annual Meeting of theAssociation for Computational Linguistics, Jeju,Republic of Korea, 8-14 July 2012. pages 37?42Shilin Ding, Gao Cong, Chin-Yew Lin, Xiaoyan Zhu.Using Conditional Random Fields to ExtractContexts and Answers of Questions from OnlineForums.
Proceedings of 2008 Association forComputational Linguistics, Columbus, Ohio,USA, June 2008. pages 710?718Tiphaine Dalmas, Bonnie Webber.
Answer comparisonin automated question answering.
Journal ofApplied Logic, Volume 5, Issue 1, March 2007,Pages 104-120Walid S. Saba.
Language, logic and ontology:Uncovering the structure of commonsenseknowledge.
International Journal ofHuman-Computer Studies, Volume 65, Issue 7,July 2007, Pages 610-623Wanxiang Che, Zhenghua Li, Ting Liu.
LTP: AChinese Language Technology Platform.
InProceedings of the Coling2010:Demonstrations.
August 2010, pp13-16,Beijing, China.Yvette Col?n, Stephanie Stern.
Counseling GroupsOnline: Theory and Framework.
OnlineCounseling (Second Edition), 2011, Pages183-202.72
