Proceedings of the ACL Student Research Workshop, pages 123?129,Sofia, Bulgaria, August 4-9 2013. c?2013 Association for Computational LinguisticsPsycholinguistically Motivated Computational Models on the Organizationand Processing of Morphologically Complex WordsTirthankar DasguptaDepartment of Computer Science and Engineering,Indian Institute of Technology Kharagpurtirtha@cse.iitkgp.ernet.inAbstractIn this work we present psycholinguisti-cally motivated computational models forthe organization and processing of Ban-gla morphologically complex words inthe mental lexicon.
Our goal is to identifywhether morphologically complex wordsare stored as a whole or are they orga-nized along the morphological line.
Forthis, we have conducted a series of psy-cholinguistic experiments to build up hy-pothesis on the possible organizationalstructure of the mental lexicon.
Next, wedevelop computational models based onthe collected dataset.
We observed thatderivationally suffixed Bangla words arein general decomposed during processingand compositionality between the stemand the suffix plays an important role inthe decomposition process.
We observedthe same phenomena for Bangla verb se-quences where experiments showed non-compositional verb sequences are in gen-eral stored as a whole in the ML and lowtraces of compositional verbs are foundin the mental lexicon.1 IntroductionMental lexicon is the representation of the wordsin the human mind and their associations thathelp fast retrieval and comprehension (Aitchison,1987).
Words are known to be associated witheach other in terms of, orthography, phonology,morphology and semantics.
However, the precisenature of these relations is unknown.An important issue that has been a subject ofstudy for a long time is to identify the fundamen-tal units in terms of which the mental lexicon isorganized.
That is, whether lexical representa-tions in the mental lexicon are word based or arethey organized along morphological lines.
Forexample, whether a word such as ?unimaginable?is stored in the mental lexicon as a whole wordor do we break it up ?un-?
, ?imagine?
and ?-able?, understand the meaning of each of theseconstituent and then recombine the units to com-prehend the whole word.Such questions are typically answered by de-signing appropriate priming experiments (Mars-len-Wilson et al 1994) or other lexical decisiontasks.
The reaction time of the subjects for re-cognizing various lexical items under appropriateconditions reveals important facts about theirorganization in the brain.
(See Sec.
2 for modelsof morphological organization and access andrelated experiments).A clear understanding of the structure and theprocessing mechanism of the mental lexicon willfurther our knowledge of how the human brainprocesses language.
Further, these linguisticallyimportant and interesting questions are also high-ly significant for computational linguistics (CL)and natural language processing (NLP) applica-tions.
Their computational significance arisesfrom the issue of their storage in lexical re-sources like WordNet (Fellbaum, 1998) and rais-es the questions like, how to store morphologi-cally complex words, in a lexical resource likeWordNet keeping in mind the storage and accessefficiency.There is a rich literature on organization andlexical access of morphologically complex wordswhere experiments have been conducted mainlyfor derivational suffixed words of English, He-brew, Italian, French, Dutch, and few other lan-guages (Marslen-Wilson et al 2008; Frost et al1997; Grainger, et al 1991; Drews and Zwitser-lood, 1995).
However, we do not know of anysuch investigations for Indian languages, which123are morphologically richer than many of theirIndo-European cousins.
Moreover, Indian lan-guages show some distinct phenomena like,compound and composite verbs for which nosuch investigations have been conducted yet.
Onthe other hand, experiments indicate that mentalrepresentation and processing of morphologicallycomplex words are not quite language indepen-dent (Taft, 2004).
Therefore, the findings fromexperiments in one language cannot be genera-lized to all languages making it important toconduct similar experimentations in other lan-guages.This work aims to design cognitively moti-vated computational models that can explain theorganization and processing of Bangla morpho-logically complex words in the mental lexicon.Presently we will concentrate on the followingtwo aspects:?
Organization and processing of Bangla Poly-morphemic words: our objective here is to de-termine whether the mental lexicon decompos-es morphologically complex words into itsconstituent morphemes or does it represent theunanalyzed surface form of a word.?
Organization and processing of Bangla com-pound verbs (CV): compound verbs are thesubject of much debate in linguistic theory.
Noconsensus has been reached yet with respect tothe issue that whether to consider them as uni-tary lexical units or are they syntactically as-sembled combinations of two independent lex-ical units.
As linguistic arguments have so farnot led to a consensus, we here use cognitiveexperiments to probe the brain signatures ofverb-verb combinations and propose cognitiveas well as computational models regarding thepossible organization and processing of BanglaCVs in the mental lexicon (ML).With respect to this, we apply the differentpriming and other lexical decision experiments,described in literature (Marslen-Wilson et al1994; Bentin, S. and Feldman, 1990) specificallyfor derivationally suffixed polymorphemic wordsand compound verbs of Bangla.
Our cross-modaland masked priming experiment on Bangla deri-vationally suffixed words shows that morpholog-ical relatedness between lexical items triggers asignificant priming effect, even when the formsare phonologically/orthographically unrelated.These observations are similar to those reportedfor English and indicate that derivationally suf-fixed words in Bangla are in general accessedthrough decomposition of the word into its con-stituent morphemes.
Further, based on the expe-rimental data we have developed a series ofcomputational models that can be used to predictthe decomposition of Bangla polymorphemicwords.
Our evaluation result shows that decom-position of a polymorphemic word depends onseveral factors like, frequency, productivity ofthe suffix and the compositionality between thestem and the suffix.The organization of the paper is as follows:Sec.
2 presents related works; Sec.
3 describesexperiment design and procedure; Sec.
4 presentsthe processing of CVs; and finally, Sec.
5 con-cludes the paper by presenting the future direc-tion of the work.2 Related Works2.1 Representation of polymorphemic wordsOver the last few decades many studies have at-tempted to understand the representation andprocessing of morphologically complex words inthe brain for various languages.
Most of the stu-dies are designed to support one of the two mu-tually exclusive paradigms: the full-listing andthe morphemic model.
The full-listing modelclaims that polymorphic words are represented asa whole in the human mental lexicon (Bradley,1980; Butterworth, 1983).
On the other hand,morphemic model argues that morphologicallycomplex words are decomposed and representedin terms of the smaller morphemic units.
Theaffixes are stripped away from the root form,which in turn are used to access the mental lex-icon (Taft and Forster, 1975; Taft, 1981; MacK-ay, 1978).
Intermediate to these two paradigms isthe partial decomposition model that argues thatdifferent types of morphological forms areprocessed separately.
For instance, the derivedmorphological forms are believed to berepresented as a whole, whereas the representa-tion of the inflected forms follows the morphem-ic model (Caramazza et al 1988).Traditionally, priming experiments have beenused to study the effects of morphology in lan-guage processing.
Priming is a process that re-sults in increase in speed or accuracy of responseto a stimulus, called the target, based on the oc-currence of a prior exposure of another stimulus,called the prime (Tulving et al 1982).
Here,subjects are exposed to a prime word for a shortduration, and are subsequently shown a targetword.
The prime and target words may be mor-phologically, phonologically or semantically re-124lated.
An analysis of the effect of the reactiontime of subjects reveals the actual organizationand representation of the lexicon at the relevantlevel.
See Pulverm?ller (2002) for a detailed ac-count of such phenomena.It has been argued that frequency of a word in-fluences the speed of lexical processing and thus,can serve as a diagnostic tool to observe the na-ture and organization of lexical representations.
(Taft, 1975) with his experiment on English in-flected words, argued that lexical decision res-ponses of polymorphemic words depends uponthe base word frequency.
Similar observation forsurface word frequency was also observed by(Bertram et al 2000;Bradley, 1980;Burani et al1987;Burani et al 1984;Schreuder et al 1997;Taft 1975;Taft, 2004) where it has been claimedthat words having low surface frequency tends todecompose.
Later, Baayen(2000) proposed thedual processing race model that proposes that aspecific morphologically complex form is ac-cessed via its parts if the frequency of that wordis above a certain threshold of frequency, thenthe direct route will win, and the word will beaccessed as a whole.
If it is below that same thre-shold of frequency, the parsing route will win,and the word will be accessed via its parts.2.2 Representation of Compound VerbsA compound verb (CV) consists of a sequence oftwo verbs (V1 and V2) acting as a single verband expresses a single expression of meaning.For example, in the sentence???????
?
???
???
?
(/ruTigulo kheYe phela/)?bread-plural-the eat and drop-pres.
Imp?
?Eat the breads?the verb sequence ????
???
?
(eat drop)?
is anexample of CV.
Compound verbs are a specialphenomena that are abundantly found in Indo-European languages like Indian languages.A plethora of works has been done to providelinguistic explanations on the formation of suchword, yet none so far has led to any consensus.Hook (1981) considers the second verb V2 as anaspectual complex comparable to the auxiliaries.Butt (1993) argues CV formations in Hindi andUrdu are either morphological or syntactical andtheir formation take place at the argument struc-ture.
Bashir (1993) tried to construct a semanticanalysis based on ?prepared?
and ?unpreparedmind?.
Similar findings have been proposed byPandharipande (1993) that points out V1 and V2are paired on the basis of their semantic compa-tibility, which is subject to syntactic constraints.Paul (2004) tried to represent Bangla CVs interms of HPSG formalism.
She proposes that theselection of a V2 by a V1 is determined at thesemantic level because the two verbs will unify ifand only if they are semantically compatible.Since none of the linguistic formalism could sa-tisfactorily explain the unique phenomena of CVformation, we here for the first time drew ourattention towards psycholinguistic and neuro-linguistic studies to model the processing ofverb-verb combinations in the ML and comparethese responses with that of the existing models.3 The Proposed Approaches3.1 The psycholinguistic experimentsWe apply two different priming experimentsnamely, the cross modal priming and maskedpriming experiment discussed in (Forster andDavis, 1984; Rastle et al 2000;Marslen-Wilsonet al 1994; Marslen-Wilson et al 2008) forBangla morphologically complex words.
Here,the prime is morphologically derived form of thetarget presented auditorily (for cross modal prim-ing) or visually (for masked priming).
The sub-jects were asked to make a lexical decisionwhether the given target is a valid word in thatlanguage.
The same target word is again probedbut with a different audio or visual probe calledthe control word.
The control shows no relation-ship with the target.
For example, baYaska(aged) and baYasa (age) is a prime-target pair,for which the corresponding control-target paircould be naYana (eye) and baYasa (age).Similar to (Marslen-Wilson et al 2008) themasked priming has been conducted for threedifferent SOA (Stimulus Onset Asynchrony),48ms, 72ms and 120ms.
The SOA is measured asthe amount of time between the start the firststimulus till the start of the next stimulus.Table 1: Dataset for the experiment, + impliesrelated, and - implies unrelated.There were 500 prime-target and control-target pairs classified into five classes.
Depend-ing on the class, the prime is related to the targetClass ExampleM+S+O+ nibAsa(residence)-nibAsi(resident)M+S+O- mitra(friend) - maitri (friendship)M?+S-O+ Ama(Mango)- AmadAni (import)M-S+O- jantu(Animal)- bAgha (Tiger)M-S-O+ ghaDi(watch)-ghaDiYAla (croco-dile)125either in terms of morphology, semantics, ortho-graphy and/or Phonology (See Table 1).The experiments were conducted on 24 highlyeducated native Bangla speakers.
Nineteen ofthem have a graduate degree and five hold a postgraduate degree.
The age of the subjects variesbetween 22 to 35 years.Results: The RTs with extreme values and in-correct decisions were excluded from the data.The data has been analyzed using two waysANOVA with three factors: priming (prime andcontrol), conditions (five classes) and prime du-rations (three different SOA).
We observe strongpriming effects (p<0.05) when the target word ismorphologically derived and has a recognizablesuffix, semantically and orthographically relatedwith respect to the prime; no priming effects areobserved when the prime and target words areorthographically related but share no morpholog-ical or semantic relationship; although not statis-tically significant (p>0.07), but weak priming isobserved for prime target pairs that are only se-mantically related.
We see no significant differ-ence between the prime and control RTs for oth-er classes.We also looked at the RTs for each of the 500target words.
We observe that maximum primingoccurs for words in [M+S+O+](69%), somepriming is evident in [M+S+O-](51%) and[M'+S-O+](48%), but for most of the words in[M-S+O-](86%) and [M-S-O+](92%) no primingeffect was observed.3.2 Frequency Distribution Models of Morpho-logical ProcessingFrom the above results we saw that not all poly-morphemic words tend to decompose duringprocessing, thus we need to further investigatethe processing phenomena of Bangla derivedwords.
One notable means is to identify whetherthe stem or suffix frequency is involved in theprocessing stage of that word.
For this, we applydifferent frequency based models to the Banglapolymorphemic words and try to evaluate theirperformance by comparing their predicted resultswith the result obtained through the priming ex-periment.Model-1: Base and Surface word frequency ef-fect- It states that the probability of decomposi-tion of a Bangla polymorphemic word dependsupon the frequency of its base word.
Thus, if thestem frequency of a polymorphemic wordcrosses a given threshold value, then the wordwill decomposed into its constituent morpheme.Similar claim has been made for surface wordfrequency model where decomposition dependsupon the frequency of the surface word itself.We have evaluated both the models with the 500words used in the priming experiments discussedabove.
We have achieved an accuracy of 62%and 49% respectively for base and surface wordfrequency models.Model-2: Combining the base and surface wordfrequency- In a pursuit towards an extendedmodel, we combine model 1 and 2 together.
Wetook the log frequencies of both the base and thederived words and plotted the best-fit regressioncurve over the given dataset.The evaluation of this model over the same setof 500 target words returns an accuracy of 68%which is better than the base and surface wordfrequency models.
However, the proposed modelstill fails to predict processing of around 32% ofwords.
This led us to further enhance the model.For this, we analyze the role of suffixes in mor-phological processing.Model-3: Degree of Affixation and Suffix Prod-uctivity: we examine whether the regressionanalysis between base and derived frequency ofBangla words varies between suffixes and howthese variations affect morphological decomposi-tion.
With respect to this, we try to compute thedegree of affixation between the suffix and thebase word.
For this, we perform regression anal-ysis on sixteen different Bangla suffixes withvarying degree of type and token frequencies.For each suffix, we choose 100 different derivedwords.
We observe that those suffixes havinghigh value of intercept are forming derivedwords whose base frequencies are substantiallyhigh as compared to their derived forms.
Moreo-ver we also observe that high intercept value fora given suffix indicates higher inclination to-wards decomposition.Next, we try to analyze the role of suffixtype/token ratio and compare them with thebase/derived frequency ratio model.
This hasbeen done by regression analysis between thesuffix type-token ratios with the base-surfacefrequency ratio.We further tried to observe the role of suffixproductivity in morphological processing.
Forthis, we computed the three components of prod-uctivity P, P* and V as discussed in (Hay andPlag, 2004).
P is the ?conditioned degree ofproductivity?
and is the probability that we areencountering a word with an affix and it isrepresenting a new type.
P* is the ?hapaxed-conditioned degree of productivity?.
It expressesthe probability that when an entirely new word is126encountered it will contain the suffix.
V is the?type frequency?.
Finally, we computed theproductivity of a suffix through its P, P* and Vvalues.
We found that decomposition of Banglapolymorphemic word is directly proportional tothe productivity of the suffix.
Therefore, wordsthat are composed of productive suffixes (P val-ue ranges between 0.6 and 0.9) like ?-oYAlA?,?-giri?, ?-tba?
and ?-panA?
are highly decom-posable than low productive suffixes like ?-Ani?,?-lA?, ?-k?, and ?-tama?.
The evaluation of theproposed model returns an accuracy of 76%which comes to be 8% better than the precedingmodels.Combining Model-2 and Model-3: One impor-tant observation that can be made from the aboveresults is that, model-3 performs best in deter-mining the true negative values.
It also possessesa high recall value of (85%) but having a lowprecision of (50%).
In other words, the modelcan predict those words for which decompositionwill not take place.
On the other hand, results ofModel-2 posses a high precision of 70%.
Thus,we argue that combining the above two modelscan better predict the decomposition of Banglapolymorphemic words.
Hence, we combine thetwo models together and finally achieved anoverall accuracy of 80% with a precision of 87%and a recall of 78%.
This surpasses the perfor-mance of the other models discussed earlier.However, around 22% of the test words werewrongly classified which the model fails to justi-fy.
Thus, a more rigorous set of experiments anddata analysis are required to predict access me-chanisms of such Bangla polymorphemic words.3.3 Stem-Suffix CompositionalityCompositionality refers to the fact that meaningof a complex expression is inferred from themeaning of its constituents.
Therefore, the costof retrieving a word from the secondary memoryis directly proportional to the cost of retrievingthe individual parts (i.e the stem and the suffix).Thus, following the work of (Milin et al 2009)we define the compositionality of a morphologi-cally complex word (We) as:C(We)=?1H(We)+?2H(e)+?3H(W|e)+ ?4H(e|W)Where, H(x) is entropy of an expression x,H(W|e) is the conditional entropy between thestem W and suffix e  and ?
is the proportionalityfactor whose value is computed through regres-sion analysis.Next, we tried to compute the compositionali-ty of the stem and suffixes in terms of relativeentropy D(W||e) and Point wise mutual informa-tion (PMI).
The relative entropy is the measureof the distance between the probability distribu-tion of the stem W and the suffix e. The PMImeasures the amount of information that onerandom variable (the stem) contains about theother (the suffix).We have compared the above three techniqueswith the actual reaction time data collectedthrough the priming and lexical decision experi-ment.
We observed that all the three informationtheoretic models perform much better than thefrequency based models discussed in the earliersection, for predicting the decomposability ofBangla polymorphemic words.
However, wethink it is still premature to claim anything con-crete at this stage of our work.
We believe muchmore rigorous experiments are needed to be per-formed in order to validate our proposed models.Further, the present paper does not consider fac-tors related to age of acquisition, and word fami-liarity effects that plays important role in theprocessing of morphologically complex words.Moreover, it is also very interesting to see howstacking of multiple suffixes in a word areprocessed by the human brain.4 Organization and Processing of Com-pound Verbs in the Mental LexiconCompound verbs, as discussed above, are specialtype of verb sequences consisting of two or moreverbs acting as a single verb and express a singleexpression of meaning.
The verb V1 is known aspole and V2 is called as vector.
For example,????
????
?
(getting up) is a compound verbwhere individual words do not entirely reflectsthe meaning of the whole expression.
However,not all V1+V2 combinations are CVs.
For exam-ple, expressions like, ?????
????
?
(take and thengo) and ?
????
??
???
(return back) are the ex-amples of verb sequences where meaning of thewhole expression can be derived from the mean-ing of the individual component and thus, theseverb sequences are not considered as CV.
Thekey question linguists are trying to identify for along time and debating a lot is whether to con-sider CVs as a single lexical units or considerthem as two separate units.
Since linguistic rulesfails to explain the process, we for the first timetried to perform cognitive experiments to under-stand the organization and processing of suchverb sequences in the human mind.
A clear un-derstanding about these phenomena may help usto classify or extract actual CVs from other verb127sequences.
In order to do so, presently we haveapplied three different techniques to collect userdata.
In the first technique, we annotated 4500V1+V2 sequences, along with their example sen-tences, using a group of three linguists (the ex-pert subjects).
We asked the experts to classifythe verb sequences into three classes namely,CV, not a CV and not sure.
Each linguist hasreceived 2000 verb pairs along with their respec-tive example sentences.
Out of this, 1500 verbsequences are unique to each of them and rest500 are overlapping.
We measure the inter anno-tator agreement using the Fleiss Kappa (Fleiss etal., 1981) measure (?)
where the agreement liesaround 0.79.
Next, out of the 500 common verbsequences that were annotated by all the threelinguists, we randomly choose 300 V1+V2 pairsand presented them to 36 native Bangla speakers.We ask each subjects to give a compositionalityscore of each verb sequences under 1-10 pointscale, 10 being highly compositional and 1 fornoncompositional.
We found an agreement of?=0.69 among the subjects.
We also observe acontinuum of compositionality score among theverb sequences.
This reflects that it is difficult toclassify Bangla verb sequences discretely intothe classes of CV and not a CV.
We then, com-pare the compositionality score with that of theexpert user?s annotation.
We found a significantcorrelation between the expert annotation and thecompositionality score.
We observe verb se-quences that are annotated as CVs (like, ???????
,???
??
,???
?? )
have got low compositio-nality score (average score ranges between 1-4)on the other hand high compositional values arein general tagged as not a cv (????
???
(come andget), ????
??
(return back), ????
??????
(kept),?????
???
(roll on floor)).
This reflects that verbsequences which are not CV shows high degreeof compositionality.
In other words non CVverbs can directly interpret from their constituentverbs.
This leads us to the possibility that com-positional verb sequences requires individualverbs to be recognized separately and thus thetime to recognize such expressions must begreater than the non-compositional verbs whichmaps to a single expression of meaning.
In orderto validate such claim we perform a lexical deci-sion experiment using 32 native Bangla speakerswith 92 different verb sequences.
We followedthe same experimental procedure as discussed in(Taft, 2004) for English polymorphemic words.However, rather than derived words, the subjectswere shown a verb sequence and asked whetherthey recognize them as a valid combination.
Thereaction time (RT) of each subject is recorded.Our preliminarily observation from the RT anal-ysis shows that as per our claim, RT of verb se-quences having high compositionality value issignificantly higher than the RTs for low or non-compositional verbs.
This proves our hypothesisthat Bangla compound verbs that show less com-positionality are stored as a hole in the mentallexicon and thus follows the full-listing modelwhereas compositional verb phrases are indivi-dually parsed.
However, we do believe that ourexperiment is composed of a very small set ofdata and it is premature to conclude anythingconcrete based only on the current experimentalresults.5 Future DirectionsIn the next phase of our work we will focus onthe following aspects of Bangla morphologicallycomplex words:The Word Familiarity Effect: Here, our aim is tostudy the role of familiarity of a word during itsprocessing.
We define the familiarity of a wordin terms of corpus frequency, Age of acquisition,the level of language exposure of a person, andRT of the word etc.Role of suffix types in morphological decompo-sition: For native Bangla speakers which mor-phological suffixes are internalized and whichare just learnt in school, but never internalized.We can compare the representation of Native,Sanskrit derived and foreign suffixes in Banglawords.Computational models of organization andprocessing of Bangla compound verbs: presentlywe have performed some small set of experi-ments to study processing of compound verbs inthe mental lexicon.
In the next phase of our workwe will extend the existing experiments and alsoapply some more techniques like, crowd sourc-ing and language games to collect more relevantRT and compositionality data.
Finally, based onthe collected data we will develop computationalmodels that can explain the possible organiza-tional structure and processing mechanism ofmorphologically complex Bangla words in themental lexicon.ReferenceAitchison, J.
(1987).
?Words in the mind: An intro-duction to the mental lexicon?.
Wiley-Blackwell,128Baayen R. H. (2000).
?On frequency, transparencyand productivity?.
G. Booij and J. van Marle (eds),Yearbook of Morphology, pages 181-208,Baayen R.H. (2003).
?Probabilistic approaches tomorphology?.
Probabilistic linguistics, pages 229-287.Baayen R.H., T. Dijkstra, and R. Schreuder.
(1997).
?Singulars and plurals in dutch: Evidence for a pa-rallel dual-route model?.
Journal of Memory andLanguage, 37(1):94-117.Bashir, E. (1993), ?Causal Chains and CompoundVerbs.?
In M. K. Verma ed.
(1993).Bentin, S. & Feldman, L.B.
(1990).
The contributionof morphological and semantic relatedness to repe-tition priming at short and long lags: Evidencefrom Hebrew.
Quarterly Journal of ExperimentalPsychology, 42, pp.
693?711.Bradley, D. (1980).
Lexical representation of deriva-tional relation, Juncture, Saratoga, CA: Anma Li-bri, pp.
37-55.Butt, M. (1993), ?Conscious choice and some lightverbs in Urdu.?
In M. K. Verma ed.
(1993).Butterworth, B.
(1983).
Lexical Representation, Lan-guage Production, Vol.
2, pp.
257-294, San Diego,CA: Academic Press.Caramazza, A., Laudanna, A. and Romani, C. (1988).Lexical access and inflectional morphology.
Cog-nition, 28, pp.
297-332.Drews, E., and Zwitserlood, P. (1995).Morphologicaland orthographic similarity in visual word recogni-tion.
Journal of Experimental Psycholo-gy:HumanPerception andPerformance, 21, 1098?1116.Fellbaum, C.
(ed.).
(1998).
WordNet: An ElectronicLexical Database, MIT Press.Forster, K.I., and Davis, C. (1984).
Repetition prim-ing and frequency attenuation in lexical access.Journal of Experimental Psychology: Learning,Memory, and Cognition, 10, 680?698.Frost, R., Forster, K.I., & Deutsch, A.
(1997).
Whatcan we learn from the morphology of Hebrew?
Amasked-priming investigation of morphological re-presentation.
Journal of Experimental Psychology:Learning, Memory, and Cognition, 23, 829?856.Grainger, J., Cole, P., & Segui, J.
(1991).
Maskedmorphological priming in visual word recognition.Journal of Memory and Language, 30, 370?384.Hook, P. E. (1981).
?Hindi Structures: IntermediateLevel.?
Michigan Papers on South and SoutheastAsia, The University of Michigan Center for Southand Southeast Studies, Ann Arbor, Michigan.Joseph L Fleiss, Bruce Levin, and Myunghee ChoPaik.
1981.
The measurement of interrater agree-ment.
Statistical methods for rates and propor-tions,2:212?236.MacKay,D.G.
(1978), Derivational rules and the inter-nal lexicon.
Journal of Verbal Learning and VerbalBehavior, 17, pp.61-71.Marslen-Wilson, W.D., & Tyler, L.K.
(1997).
Disso-ciating types of mental computation.
Nature, 387,pp.
592?594.Marslen-Wilson, W.D., & Tyler, L.K.
(1998).
Rules,representations, and the English past tense.
Trendsin Cognitive Sciences, 2, pp.
428?435.Marslen-Wilson, W.D., Tyler, L.K., Waksler, R., &Older, L. (1994).
Morphology and meaning in theEnglish mental lexicon.
Psychological Review,101, pp.
3?33.Marslen-Wilson,W.D.
and Zhou,X.
( 1999).
Abstract-ness, allomorphy, and lexical architecture.
Lan-guage and Cognitive Processes, 14, 321?352.Milin, P., Kuperman, V., Kosti?, A. and Harald R., H.(2009).
Paradigms bit by bit: an information-theoretic approach to the processing of paradig-matic structure in inflection and derivation, Anal-ogy in grammar: Form and acquisition, pp: 214?252.Pandharipande, R. (1993).
?Serial verb construction inMarathi.?
In M. K. Verma ed.
(1993).Paul, S. (2004).
An HPSG Account of Bangla Com-pound Verbs with LKB Implementation, Ph.D. Dis-sertation.
CALT, University of Hyderabad.Pulverm?ller, F. (2002).
The Neuroscience of Lan-guage.
Cambridge University Press.Stolz, J.A., and Feldman, L.B.
(1995).
The role oforthographic and semantic transparency of the basemorpheme in morphological processing.
In L.B.Feldman (Ed.)
Morphological aspects of languageprocessing.
Hillsdale, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum As-sociates Inc.Taft, M., and Forster, K.I.(1975).
Lexical storage andretrieval of prefix words.
Journal of Verbal Learn-ing and Verbal Behavior, Vol.14, pp.
638-647.Taft, M.(1988).
A morphological decompositionmodel of lexical access.
Linguistics, 26, pp.
657-667.Taft, M. (2004).
Morphological decomposition andthe reverse base frequency effect.
Quarterly Jour-nal of Experimental Psychology, 57A, pp.
745-765Tulving, E., Schacter D. L., and Heather A.
(1982).Priming Effects in Word Fragment Completion areindependent of Recognition Memory.
Journal ofExperimental Psychology: Learning, Memory andCognition, vol.8 (4).129
