Proceedings of the 51st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics, pages 479?483,Sofia, Bulgaria, August 4-9 2013. c?2013 Association for Computational LinguisticsCharacter-to-Character Sentiment Analysis in Shakespeare?s PlaysEric T. Nalisnick Henry S. BairdDept.
of Computer Science and EngineeringLehigh UniversityBethlehem, PA 18015, USA{etn212,hsb2}@lehigh.eduAbstractWe present an automatic method for ana-lyzing sentiment dynamics between char-acters in plays.
This literary format?sstructured dialogue allows us to make as-sumptions about who is participating in aconversation.
Once we have an idea ofwho a character is speaking to, the senti-ment in his or her speech can be attributedaccordingly, allowing us to generate listsof a character?s enemies and allies as wellas pinpoint scenes critical to a character?semotional development.
Results of ex-periments on Shakespeare?s plays are pre-sented along with discussion of how thiswork can be extended to unstructured texts(i.e.
novels).1 IntroductionInsightful analysis of literary fiction often chal-lenges trained human readers let alne machines.In fact, some humanists believe literary analysisis so closely tied to the human condition that it isimpossible for computers to perform.
In his bookReading Machines: Toward an Algorithmic Criti-cism, Stephen Ramsay (2011) states:Tools that can adjudicate the hermeneu-tical parameters of human reading ex-periences...stretch considerably beyondthe most ambitious fantasies of artificialintelligence.Antonio Roque (2012) has challenged Ramsay?sclaim, and certainly there has been successfulwork done in the computational analysis and mod-eling of narratives, as we will review in the nextsection.
However, we believe that most previouswork (except possibly (Elsner, 2012)) has failed todirectly address the root cause of Ramsay?s skep-ticism: can computers extract the emotions en-coded in a narrative?
For example, can the lovethat Shakespeare?s Juliet feels for Romeo be com-putationally tracked?
Empathizing with charactersalong their journeys to emotional highs and lowsis often what makes a narrative compelling for areader, and therefore we believe mapping thesejourneys is the first step in capturing the humanreading experience.Unfortunately but unsurprisingly, computa-tional modeling of the emotional relationships de-scribed in natural language text remains a dauntingtechnical challenge.
The reason this task is so dif-ficult is that emotions are indistinct and often sub-tly conveyed, especially in text with literary merit.Humans typically achieve no greater than 80% ac-curacy in sentiment classification experiments in-volving product reviews (Pang et al, 2002) (Ga-mon, 2004).
Similar experiments on fiction textswould presumably yield even higher error rates.In order to attack this open problem and makefurther progress towards refuting Ramsay?s claim,we turn to shallow statistical approaches.
Sen-timent analysis (Pang and Lee, 2008) has beensuccessfully applied to mine social media datafor emotional responses to events, public figures,and consumer products just by using emotionlexicons?lists that map words to polarity values(+1 for positive sentiment, -1 for negative) or va-lence values that try to capture degrees of polarity.In the following paper, we describe our attemptsto use modern sentiment lexicons and dialoguestructure to algorithmically track and model?withno domain-specific customization?the emotiondynamics between characters in Shakespeare?splays.12 Sentiment Analysis and Related WorkSentiment analysis (SA) is now widely used com-mercially to infer user opinions from product re-views and social-media messages (Pang and Lee,1XML versions provided by Jon Bosak:http://www.ibiblio.org/xml/examples/shakespeare/4792008).
Traditional machine learning techniques onn-grams, parts of speech, and other bag of wordsfeatures can be used when the data is labeled (e.g.IMDB?s user reviews are labeled with one to tenstars, which are assumed to correlate with thetext?s polarity) (Pang et al, 2002).
But text anno-tated with its true sentiments is hard to come by sooften labels must be obtained via crowdsourcing.Knowledge-based methods (which also typi-cally rely on crowdsourcing) provide an alter-native to using labeled data (Andreevskaia andBergler, 2007).
These methods are driven bysentiment lexicons, fixed lists associating wordswith ?valences?
(signed integers representing pos-itive and negative feelings) (Kim and Hovy, 2004).Some lexicons allow for analysis of specific emo-tions by associating words with degrees of fear,joy, surprise, anger, anticipation, etc.
(Strappar-ava and Valitutti, 2004) (Mohammad and Turney,2008).
Unsurprisingly, methods which, like these,lack deep understanding often work more reliablyas the length of the input text increases.Turning our attention now to automatic seman-tic analysis of fiction, it seems that narrative mod-eling and summarization has been the most inten-sively studied application.
Chambers and Jurafsky(2009) described a system that can learn (withoutsupervision) the sequence of events described in anarrative, and Elson and McKeown (2009) createda platform that can symbolically represent and rea-son over narratives.Narrative structure has also been studied by rep-resenting character interactions as networks.
Mut-ton (2004) adapted methods for extracting socialnetworks from Internet Relay Chat (IRC) to mineShakespeare?s plays for their networks.
Extendingthis line of work to novels, Elson and McKeown(2010) developed a reliable method for speechattribution in unstructured texts, and then usedthis method to successfully extract social networksfrom Victorian novels (Elson et al, 2010)(Agar-wal et al, 2012).While structure is undeniably important, we be-lieve analyzing a narrative?s emotions is essen-tial to capturing the ?reading experience,?
whichis a view others have held.
Alm and Sproat(2005) analyzed Brothers Grimm fairy tales fortheir ?emotional trajectories,?
finding emotion typ-ically increases as a story progresses.
Mohammad(2011) scaled-up their work by using a crowd-sourced emotion lexicon to track emotion dynam-ics over the course of many novels and plays, in-cluding Shakespeare?s.
In the most recent workwe are aware of, Elsner (2012) analyzed emotionaltrajectories at the character level, showing howMiss Elizabeth Bennet?s emotions change over thecourse of Pride and Prejudice.3 Character-to-Character SentimentAnalysisCharacterGuildensternPolonius GertrudeHoratioGhost MarcellusOsricBernardoLaertesOpheliaRosencrantzClaudius72-1-5-12-273125241287Hamlet's Sentiment Valence SumFigure 1: The characters in Hamlet are rankedby Hamet?s sentiment towards them.
Expectedly,Claudius draws the most negative emotion.We attempt to further Elsner?s line of work byleveraging text structure (as Mutton and Elson did)and knowlege-based SA to track the emotional tra-jectories of interpersonal relationships rather thanof a whole text or an isolated character.
To ex-tract these relationships, we mined for character-to-character sentiment by summing the valencevalues (provided by the AFINN sentiment lexicon(Nielsen, 2011)) over each instance of continuousspeech and then assumed that sentiment was di-rected towards the character that spoke immedi-ately before the current speaker.
This assumptiondoesn?t always hold; it is not uncommon to find ascene in which two characters are expressing feel-ings about someone offstage.
Yet our initial resultson Shakespeare?s plays show that the instances offace-to-face dialogue produce a strong enough sig-nal to generate sentiment rankings that match ourexpectations.For example, Hamlet?s sentiment rankings uponthe conclusion of his play are shown in Figure 1.Not surprisingly, Claudius draws the most nega-tive sentiment from Hamlet, receiving a score of-27.
On the other hand, Gertrude is very well likedby Hamlet (+24), which is unexpected (at least to480us) since Hamlet suspects that his mother was in-volved in murdering King Hamlet.Figure 2: The above chart tracks how Gertrude?sand Hamlet?s sentiment towards one anotherchanges over the course of the play.
Hamlet?s sen-timent for Gertrude is denoted by the black line,and Gertrude?s for Hamlet is marked by the op-posite boundary of the dark/light gray area.
Thedrastic change in Act III Scene IV: The Queen?sCloset is consistent with the scene?s plot events.3.1 Peering into the Queen?s ClosetTo gain more insight into this mother-son rela-tionship, we examined how their feelings towardsone another change over the course of the play.Figure 2 shows the results of dynamic character-to-character sentiment analysis on Gertrude andHamlet.
The running total of Hamlet?s sentimentvalence toward Gertrude is tracked by the blackline, and Gertrude?s feelings toward her son aretracked by the opposite boundary of the light/darkgray area.
The line graph shows a dramatic swingin sentiment around line 2,250, which correspondsto Act iii, Scene iv.In this scene, entitled The Queen?s Closet, Ham-let confronts his mother about her involvement inKing Hamlet?s death.
Gertrude is shocked at theaccusation, revealing she never suspected Ham-let?s father was murdered.
King Hamlet?s ghosteven points this out to his son: ?But, look, amaze-ment on thy mother sits?
(3.4.109).
Hamlet thencomes to the realization that his mother had noinvolvement in the murder and probably marriedClaudius more so to preserve stability in the state.As a result, Hamlet?s affection towards his mothergrows, as exhibited in the sentiment jump from-1 to 22.
But this scene has the opposite affecton Gertrude: she sees her son murder an innocentman (Polonius) and talk to an invisible presence(she cannot see King Hamlet?s ghost).
Gertrudeis coming to the understanding that Hamlet isnot just depressed but possibly mad and on a re-venge mission.
Because of Gertrude?s realization,it is only natural that her sentiment undergoes asharply negative change (1 to -19).3.2 Analyzing Shakespeare?s Most FamousCouplesFigure 3: Othello?s sentiment for Desdemona isdenoted by the black line, and Desdemona?s forOthello is marked by the opposite boundary of thedark/light gray area.
As expected, the line graphshows Othello has very strong positive emotiontowards his new wife at the beginning of the play,but this positivity quickly degrades as Othello fallsdeeper and deeper into Iago?s deceit.After running this automatic analysis on all ofShakespeare?s plays, not all the results examinedwere as enlightening as the Hamlet vs. Gertrudeexample.
Instead, the majority supported our al-ready held interpretations.
We will now presentwhat the technique revealed about three of Shake-speare?s best known relationships.
Figure 3 showsOthello vs. Desdemona sentiment dynamics.
Weclearly see Othello?s love for his new bride cli-maxes in the first third of the play and then rapidlydegrades due to Iago?s deceit while Desdemona?sfeelings for Othello stay positive until the veryend of the play when it is clear Othello?s love forher has become poisoned.
For an example of acontrasting relationship, Figure 4 shows Romeovs.
Juliet.
As expected, the two exhibit rapidlyincreasing positive sentiment for each other thatonly tapers when the play takes a tragic course inthe latter half.
Lastly, Figure 5 shows Petruchiovs.
Katharina (from The Taming of the Shrew).The phases of Petruchio?s courtship can be seen:first he is neutral to her, then ?tames?
her with a481period of negative sentiment, and finally she em-braces him, as shown by the increasingly positivesentiment exhibited in both directions.Figure 4: Juliet?s sentiment for Romeo is de-noted by the black line, and Romeo?s for Julietis marked by the opposite boundary of the grayarea.
Aligning with our expectations, both charac-ters exhibit strong positive sentiment towards theother throughout the play.Unfortunately, we do not have room in this pa-per to discuss further examples, but a visualizationof sentiment dynamics between any pair of char-acters in any of Shakespeare?s plays can be seen atwww.lehigh.edu/?etn212/ShakespeareExplorer.html.Figure 5: Petruchio?s sentiment for Katharina isdenoted by the black line, and Katharina?s forPetruchio is marked by the opposite boundary ofthe dark/light gray area.
The period from line 1200to line 1700, during which Petruchio exhibits neg-ative sentiment, marks where he is ?taming?
the?shrew.
?4 Future WorkWhile this paper presents experiments on justShakespeare?s plays, note that the described tech-nique can be extended to any work of fiction writ-ten since the Elizabethan Period.
The sentimentlexicon we used, AFINN, is designed for modernEnglish; thus, it should only provide better anal-ysis on works written after Shakespeare?s.
Fur-thermore, character-to-character analysis shouldbe able to be applied to novels (and other un-structured fiction) if Elson and McKeown?s (2010)speaker attribution technique is first run on thework.Not only can these techniques be extended tonovels but also be made more precise.
For in-stance, the assumption that the current speaker?ssentiment is directed toward the previous speakeris rather naive.
A speech could be analyzed forcontext clues that signal that the character speak-ing is not talking about someone present but aboutsomeone out of the scene.
The sentiment couldthen be redirected to the not-present character.Furthermore, detecting subtle rhetorical featuressuch as irony and deceit would markedly improvethe accuracy of the analysis on some plays.
For ex-ample, our character-to-character analysis fails todetect that Iago hates Othello because Iago giveshis commander constant lip service in order to ma-nipulate him?only revealing his true feelings at theplay?s conclusion.5 ConclusionsAs demonstrated, shallow, un-customized senti-ment analysis can be used in conjunction withtext structure to analyze interpersonal relation-ships described within a play and output an inter-pretation that matches reader expectations.
Thischaracter-to-character sentiment analysis can bedone statically as well as dynamically to possi-bly pinpoint influential moments in the narrative(which is how we noticed the importance of Ham-let?s Act 3, Scene 4 to the Hamlet-Gertrude rela-tionship).
Yet, we believe the most noteworthy as-pect of this work lies not in the details of our tech-nique but rather in the demonstration that detailedemotion dynamics can be extracted with simplis-tic approaches?which in turn gives promise to thefuture work of robust analysis of interpersonal re-lationships in short stories and novels.ReferencesA.
Agarwal, A. Corvalan, J. Jensen, and O. Rambow.2012.
Social network analysis of alice in wonder-land.
NAACL-HLT 2012, page 88.482Cecilia Ovesdotter Alm and Richard Sproat.
2005.Emotional sequencing and development in fairytales.
In Affective Computing and Intelligent Inter-action, pages 668?674.
Springer.Alina Andreevskaia and Sabine Bergler.
2007.
Clacand clac-nb: knowledge-based and corpus-based ap-proaches to sentiment tagging.
In Proceedings ofthe 4th International Workshop on Semantic Evalu-ations, SemEval ?07, pages 117?120, Stroudsburg,PA, USA.
Association for Computational Linguis-tics.Nathanael Chambers and Dan Jurafsky.
2009.
Un-supervised learning of narrative schemas and theirparticipants.
In Proceedings of the Joint Confer-ence of the 47th Annual Meeting of the ACL and the4th International Joint Conference on Natural Lan-guage Processing of the AFNLP: Volume 2-Volume2, pages 602?610.
Association for ComputationalLinguistics.Micha Elsner.
2012.
Character-based kernels for nov-elistic plot structure.
In Proceedings of the 13thConference of the European Chapter of the Asso-ciation for Computational Linguistics, EACL ?12,pages 634?644, Stroudsburg, PA, USA.
Associationfor Computational Linguistics.David K Elson and Kathleen R McKeown.
2009.
Ex-tending and evaluating a platform for story under-standing.
In Proceedings of the AAAI 2009 SpringSymposium on Intelligent Narrative Technologies II.D.K.
Elson and K.R.
McKeown.
2010.
Automatic at-tribution of quoted speech in literary narrative.
InProceedings of AAAI.D.K.
Elson, N. Dames, and K.R.
McKeown.
2010.
Ex-tracting social networks from literary fiction.
In Pro-ceedings of the 48th Annual Meeting of the Associa-tion for Computational Linguistics, pages 138?147.Association for Computational Linguistics.Michael Gamon.
2004.
Sentiment classification oncustomer feedback data: noisy data, large featurevectors, and the role of linguistic analysis.
In Pro-ceedings of the 20th international conference onComputational Linguistics, COLING ?04, Strouds-burg, PA, USA.
Association for Computational Lin-guistics.Soo-Min Kim and Eduard Hovy.
2004.
Determin-ing the sentiment of opinions.
In Proceedings ofthe 20th international conference on ComputationalLinguistics, COLING ?04, Stroudsburg, PA, USA.Association for Computational Linguistics.Saif M Mohammad and Peter D Turney.
2008.
Crowd-sourcing the creation of a word?emotion associationlexicon.S.
Mohammad.
2011.
From once upon a time tohappily ever after: Tracking emotions in novelsand fairy tales.
In Proceedings of the 5th ACL-HLT Workshop on Language Technology for Cul-tural Heritage, Social Sciences, and Humanities,pages 105?114.
Association for Computational Lin-guistics.P.
Mutton.
2004.
Inferring and visualizing social net-works on internet relay chat.
In Information Visuali-sation, 2004.
IV 2004.
Proceedings.
Eighth Interna-tional Conference on, pages 35?43.
IEEE.F.
A?.
Nielsen.
2011.
Afinn, March.Bo Pang and Lillian Lee.
2008.
Opinion mining andsentiment analysis.
Foundations and trends in infor-mation retrieval, 2(1-2):1?135.Bo Pang, Lillian Lee, and Shivakumar Vaithyanathan.2002.
Thumbs up?
: sentiment classification usingmachine learning techniques.
In Proceedings of theACL-02 conference on Empirical methods in natu-ral language processing - Volume 10, EMNLP ?02,pages 79?86, Stroudsburg, PA, USA.
Associationfor Computational Linguistics.Stephen Ramsay.
2011.
Reading Machines: Towardan Algorithmic Criticism.
University of IllinoisPress.Antonio Roque.
2012.
Towards a computational ap-proach to literary text analysis.
NAACL-HLT 2012,page 97.C.
Strapparava and A. Valitutti.
2004.
Wordnet-affect:an affective extension of wordnet.
In Proceedings ofLREC, volume 4, pages 1083?1086.483
