Proceedings of the 51st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics, pages 25?30,Sofia, Bulgaria, August 4-9 2013. c?2013 Association for Computational LinguisticsDetecting Event-Related Links and Sentiments from Social Media TextsAlexandra Balahur and Hristo TanevEuropean Commission Joint Research CentreVia E. Fermi 2749, T.P.
26721027 Ispra (VA), Italy{alexandra.balahur, hristo.tanev}@jrc.ec.europa.euAbstractNowadays, the importance of Social Me-dia is constantly growing, as people oftenuse such platforms to share mainstreammedia news and comment on the eventsthat they relate to.
As such, people nologer remain mere spectators to the eventsthat happen in the world, but become partof them, commenting on their develop-ments and the entities involved, sharingtheir opinions and distributing related con-tent.
This paper describes a system thatlinks the main events detected from clus-ters of newspaper articles to tweets relatedto them, detects complementary informa-tion sources from the links they containand subsequently applies sentiment analy-sis to classify them into positive, negativeand neutral.
In this manner, readers canfollow the main events happening in theworld, both from the perspective of main-stream as well as social media and the pub-lic?s perception on them.This system will be part of the EMM me-dia monitoring framework working liveand it will be demonstrated using GoogleEarth.1 IntroductionIn the context of the Web 2.0, the importanceof Social Media has been constantly growing inthe past years.
People use Twitter, Facebook,LinkedIn, Pinterest, blogs and Web forums to giveand get advice, share information on products,opinions and real-time information about ongoingand future events.
In particular Twitter, with itshalf a billion active members, was used during dis-asters, protests, elections, and other events to shareupdates, opinions, comments and post links to on-line resources (e.g.
news, videos, pictures, blogposts, etc.).
As such, Twitter can be used as a com-plementary source of information, from which wecan retrieve additional facts, but also learn aboutthe attitude of the people towards certain events.On the one hand, news from the traditional me-dia focus on the factual side of events, importantfor the society or at least large groups of people.On the other hand, social media reflects subjec-tive interpretations of facts, with different levels ofrelevance (societal or only individual).
Therefore,the events reported in online news can be consid-ered a point of intersection for both types of me-dia, which are able to offer complementary viewson these events.In this context, we describe a system that wedeveloped as an additonal component to the EMM(Europe Media Monitor)1 news monitoring frame-work, linking mainstream news to related textsfrom social media and detecting the opinion (sen-timent) users express on these topics.In the EMM news monitoring system, the dif-ferent news sites are monitored and new articlesare scraped from them, with a refresh rate of 10minutes.
Subsequently, news items are clusteredand the most important ones are displayed (top10).
These are called ?stories?.
Our system subse-quently links these stories to messages from Twit-ter (tweets) and extracts the related URLs theycontain.
Finally, it analyzes the sentiments ex-pressed in the tweets by using a hybrid knowledge-based and statistical sentiment detection module.The overview of the system is depicted in Figure1http://emm.jrc.it/NewsBrief/clusteredition/en/latest.html251.Figure 1: Overview of the news clusters-Twitterlinking and sentiment analysis system.The system will be demonstrated using theGoogle Earth interface (Figure 2), presenting thecharacteristics of the event described in the story(type, date, location, the first words in the arti-cle that is the centroid of the news cluster for thatstory).
In addition, we present new informationthat we extract from Twitter - links (URLs) thatwe find from the tweets we retrieved linked to thestory and positive, negative and neutral sentiment,respectively, as a proportion of the total number oftweets retrieved.Figure 2: Demo interface for the event-Twitterlinking and sentiment analysis.2 Related Work and ContributionThe work presented herein is mostly related to thelinking of events with social media texts and sen-timent analysis from Twitter.Although Twitter was used as an informationsource in the context of different crisis events, rel-atively little work focused on linking and extract-ing content about events which are known a priori,e.g., Becker et al[2011].In this context, the main challenge is to deter-mine relevant keywords to search for event-relatedtweets and rank them according to their relevance.Related approaches (e.g., Verma et al[2011]) re-port on the use of semantic features (e.g., objec-tivity, impersonality, formality, etc.)
for detectingtweets with content relevant to situational aware-ness during mass emergencies.
Other approacheselaborate on machine learning-based techniquesfor Named Entity Recognition (NER) from tweets,which are subsequently employed as search queryterms ( Ritter et al[2011], Liu et al[2011]).Related research on sentiment analysis fromTwitter was done by Alec Go and Huang [2009],Pak and Paroubek [2010] and Agarwal et al[2011].
Alec Go and Huang [2009] and Pak andParoubek [2010] exploit the presence of emoticonsthat represent positive or negative feelings to builda training set of tweets with sentiment labels, usingwhich they build models based on n-gram featuresand part-of-speech tags.
Agarwal et al[2011] em-ploy emoticons dictionaries and replace certain el-ements such as URLs and topics with predefindedlabels.
They employ syntactic features and spe-cialized tree kernels and obtain around 75% to80% accuracy for the sentiment classification.The main contributions of our system reside inthe linking of mainstream news to the complemen-tary content found in social media (tweets and,through them, to the links to additional informa-tion sources like blogs, flickr, youtube, etc.)
andthe analysis of sentiment on these important news.For events such as ?The Arab Spring?, protests, fi-nancial news (e.g.
the fluctuations of the Euro, thebailout of different European countries, the rise inunemployment rate, etc.
), it was seen that the sen-timent expressed in social media has a high impacton the subsequent development of the story2 (Saifet al[2012], Bollen et al[2011]).
The impact ofsentiment expressed in social media is also visi-ble for topics which apparently have an apriori va-lence (e.g.
disasters, crisis, etc.).
Nevertheless, inthese cases, people communicate using the socialmedia platforms not only to express their negativefeelings, but also their will to help, their situation,their messages of encouragement, their grateful-ness for the help and so on.2http://cs229.stanford.edu/proj2011/ChenLazer-SentimentAnalysisOfTwitterFeedsForThePredictionOfStockMarketMovement.pdf26Secondly, the methods employed in our systemare simple, work fast and efficient and can be eas-ily adapted to other languages.Finally, the methods presented take into accountthe specificity of social media languages, applyingmethods to normalize the language and adaptingthe features considered for the supervised learningprocess.3 Linking News Clusters to TwitterThe first step in our system involves linking thenews stories detected by EMM to related tweets.The linking system employs the Twitter SearchAPI3.
For each news story, our application detectsrelevant URLs by finding tweets that are lexicallysimilar to the news story, represented by a clusterof news, and are mentioned frequently in Twitter.In Figure 3, we provide an example of the top sixstories on the afternoon of April 2nd, 2013.Figure 3: Top six clusters of news in the afternoonof April 2nd, 2013.In order to detect lexically similar tweets, weuse vector similarity: We build a term vector forboth the news story and the tweet and then weconsider as a similarity measure the projectionof the tweet vector on the story vector.
We donot calculate cosine similarity, since this wouldgive an advantage to short tweets.
We experi-mentally set a similarity threshold above whichthe tweets with URL are accepted.
To definethe similarity threshold and the coefficients in theURL ranking formula, we used a development setof about 100 randomly selected English-languagenews clusters, downloaded during a week.
The3https://dev.twitter.com/docs/api/1/get/searchthreshold and the coefficients were derived empir-ically.
We consider experimenting with SVM andother machine-learning approaches to define theseparameters in a more consistent way.Once the tweets that relate to the news story areretrieved, we evaluate each URL taking into ac-count the following parameters:?
Number of mentions, which we will desig-nate as Mentions.?
Number of retweets, designated Retweet.?
Number of mentions in conversations, desig-nated InConv.?
Number of times the URL was favortited,designated Favorited.?
Number of tweets which replied to tweets,mentioning the URL, designated ReplyTo.The score of the URL is calculated using thefollowing empirically derived formula.
The coef-ficients were defined based on the empirical anal-ysis described above.score(URL) = ((Mentions?1)+Retweets.1, 3+Favorited ?
4).
(InConv + 2 ?ReplyTo + 1)In this formula we give slight preference to theretweets with respect to the mentions.
We madethis choice, since retweets happen inside Twitterand reflect the dynamics of the information spreadinside this social media.
On the other hand, multi-ple mentions of news-related tweets (which are notretweeted) are due to clicking the ?Share in Twit-ter?
button, which nowadays is present on mostof the news sites.
In this way, news from visitedweb sites appear more often in Twitter.
This phe-nomena is to be further explored.
It should also benoted that our formula boosts significantly URLs,which are mentioned inside a conversation threadand even more the ones, to which there were ?re-ply to?
tweets.
Conversations tend to be cen-tered around topics which are of interest to Twit-ter users and in this way they are a good indica-tor of how interesting an URL is.
Replying to atweet requires more time and attention than justpressing the ?Retweet?
button, therefore conversa-tions show more interest to an URL, with respectto retweeting.
Examples of tweets extracted thatcomplement information from mainstream mediaare presented in Figure 4.27Figure 4: Examples of tweets extracted on theNorth Korea crisis (anonimized).4 Sentiment Analysis on Tweets Relatedto Events Reported in NewsAfter extracting the tweets related to the mainnews clusters detected by the media monitoringsystem, we pass them onto the sentiment analy-sis system, where they are classified according totheir polarity (into positive, negative and neutral).In order to classify the tweet?s sentiment, weemploy a hybrid approach based on supervisedlearning with a Support Vector Machines Sequen-tial Minimal Optimization (SVM SMO - Platt[1998]) linear kernel, on unigram and bigram fea-tures, but exploiting as features sentiment dictio-naries, emoticon lists, slang lists and other socialmedia-specific features.
We do not employ anyspecific language analysis software.
The aim is tobe able to apply, in a straightforward manner, thesame approach to as many languages as possible.The approach can be extended to other languagesby using similar dictionaries that have been cre-ated in our team.The sentiment analysis process contains twostages: preprocessing and sentiment classification.4.1 Tweet PreprocessingThe language employed in Social Media sites isdifferent from the one found in mainstream me-dia and the form of the words employed is some-times not the one we may find in a dictionary.
Fur-ther on, users of Social Media platforms employ aspecial ?slang?
(i.e.
informal language, with spe-cial expressions, such as ?lol?, ?omg?
), emoticons,and often emphasize words by repeating some oftheir letters.
Additionally, the language employedin Twitter has specific characteristics, such as themarkup of tweets that were reposted by other userswith ?RT?, the markup of topics using the ?#?
(hash sign) and of the users using the ?@?
sign.All these aspects must be considered at the timeof processing tweets.
As such, before applying su-pervised learning to classify the sentiment of thetweets, we preprocess them, to normalize the lan-guage they contain.
The preprocessing stage con-tains the following steps:?
Repeated punctuation sign normalization.In the first step of the preprocessing, we de-tect repetitions of punctuation signs (?.
?, ?!
?and ???).
Multiple consecutive punctuationsigns are replaced with the labels ?multi-stop?, for the fullstops, ?multiexclamation?in the case of exclamation sign and ?multi-question?
for the question mark and spacesbefore and after.?
Emoticon replacement.
In the second stepof the preprocessing, we employ the anno-tated list of emoticons from SentiStrength4and match the content of the tweets againstthis list.
The emoticons found are replacedwith their polarity (?positive?
or ?negative?
)and the ?neutral?
ones are deleted.?
Lower casing and tokenization.
Subse-quently, the tweets are lower cased and splitinto tokens, based on spaces and punctuationsigns.?
Slang replacement.
The next step involvesthe normalization of the language employed.In order to be able to include the semanticsof the expressions frequently used in SocialMedia, we employed the list of slang from aspecialized site 5.?
Word normalization.
At this stage, the to-kens are compared to entries in Roget?s The-saurus.
If no match is found, repeatedletters are sequentially reduced to two orone until a match is found in the dictio-nary (e.g.
?perrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrfeeect?
becomes?perrfeect?, ?perfeect?, ?perrfect?
and subse-quently ?perfect?).
The words used in thisform are maked as ?stressed?.?
Affect word matching.
Further on, the tokensin the tweet are matched against three dif-ferent sentiment lexicons: General Inquirer,LIWC and MicroWNOp, which were pre-viously split into four different categories4http://sentistrength.wlv.ac.uk/5http://www.chatslang.com/terms/social media28(?positive?, ?high positive?, ?negative?
and?high negative?).
Matched words are re-placed with their sentiment label - i.e.
?pos-itive?, ?negative?, ?hpositive?
and ?hnega-tive?.?
Modifier word matching.
Similar to theprevious step, we employ a list of expres-sions that negate, intensify or diminish theintensity of the sentiment expressed to detectsuch words in the tweets.
If such a word ismatched, it is replaced with ?negator?, ?in-tensifier?
or ?diminisher?, respectively.?
User and topic labeling.
Finally, the usersmentioned in the tweet, which are markedwith ?
@?, are replaced with ?PERSON?
andthe topics which the tweet refers to (markedwith ?#?)
are replaced with ?TOPIC?.4.2 Sentiment Classification of TweetsOnce the tweets are preprocessed, they are passedon to the sentiment classification module.
We em-ployed supervised learning using SVM SMO witha linear kernel, employing boolean features - thepresence or absence of unigrams and bigrams de-termined from the training data (tweets that werepreviousely preprocessed as described above) thatappeared at least twice.
Bigrams are used espe-cially to spot the influence of modifiers (nega-tions, intensifiers, diminishers) on the polarity ofthe sentiment-bearing words.
We tested the ap-proach on different datasets and dataset splits, us-ing the Weka data mining software 6.
The trainingmodels are built on a cluster of computers (4 cores,5000MB of memory each).5 Evaluation and Discussion5.1 Evaluation of the News-Twitter LinkingComponentThe algorithm employed to retrieve tweets simi-lar to news clusters was evaluated by Tanev et al[2012].
The precision attained was 75%.
Recallcannot be computed, as the use of the Twitter APIallows only the retrieval of a subset of tweets.In order to evaluate the link extraction compo-nent, we randomly chose 68 URLs, extracted from10 different news stories.
For each URL, we eval-uated its relevance to the news story in the follow-ing way: A URL is considered relevant only if it6http://www.cs.waikato.ac.nz/ml/weka/reports about the same news story or talks aboutfacts, like effects, post developments and motiva-tions, directly related to this news story.
It turnedout that 66 out of the 68 were relevant, which givesaccuracy of 97%.5.2 Evaluation of the Sentiment AnalysisSystemIn order to evaluate the sentiment analysis sys-tem on external resources, we employed the dataprovided for training in the SemEval 2013 Task2 ?Sentiment Analysis from Twitter?
7.
The ini-tial training data has been provided in two stages:1) sample datasets for the first task and the sec-ond task and 2) additional training data for the twotasks.
We employ the joint sample datasets as testdata (denoted as t?)
and the data released subse-quently as training data (denoted as T?).
We em-ploy the union of these two datasets to performcross-validation experiments (the joint dataset isdenoted as T ?
+t?.
The characteristics of thedataset are described in Table 1.
On the last col-umn, we also include the baseline in terms of ac-curacy, which is computed as the number of ex-amples of the majoritary class over the total num-ber of examples.
The results of the experimentsData #Tweet #Pos #Neg #Neu B%T* 19241 4779 2343 12119 62t* 2597 700 393 1504 57T*+t* 21838 5479 2736 13623 62Table 1: Characteristics of the training (T*), test-ing (t*) and joint training and testing datasets.are presented in Table 2.
Given the difficulty ofMeasure Train(T*) & test(t*) 10-fold CVAcc.
0.74 0.93Ppos 0.66 0.91Rpos 0.88 0.69Pneg 0.94 0.62Rneg 0.81 0.49Pneu 0.93 0.80Rneg 0.97 0.82Table 2: Results in terms of accuracy and preci-sion and recall per polarity class on training andtest sets evaluation and 10-fold cross-validation.language in social media, the results are good and7http://www.cs.york.ac.uk/semeval-2013/task2/29useful in the context of our application (Figure 2).6 Conclusions and Future WorkIn this demo paper, we presented a system thatlinks mainstream media stories to tweets that com-ment on the events covered.
The system retrievesrelevant tweets, extracts the links they contain andsubsequently performs sentiment analysis.
Thesystem works at a good level, giving an accuratepicture of the social media reaction to the main-stream media stories.As future work, we would like to extend the sys-tem to more languages and analyze and includenew features that are particular to social media toimprove the performance of both the retrieval andsentiment analysis components.AcknowledgementsWe would like to thank the EMM team of the OP-TIMA action at the European Commission JointResearch Centre for the technical support.ReferencesApoorv Agarwal, Boyi Xie, Ilia Vovsha, OwenRambow, and Rebecca Passonneau.
Sentimentanalysis of twitter data.
In Proceedings of LSM2011, LSM ?11, pages 30?38, 2011.Richa Bhayani Alec Go and Lei Huang.
Twit-ter sentiment classication using distant supervi-sion.
Technical report, Technical report, Stan-ford University, 2009.Hila Becker, Feiyang Chen, Dan Iter, Mor Naa-man, and Luis Gravano.
Automatic identifi-cation and presentation of twitter content forplanned events.
In Proceedings of ICWSM2011, 2011.J.
Bollen, H. Mao, and X. Zeng.
Twitter moodpredicts the stock market.
Journal of Computa-tional Science, 2011.Xiaohua Liu, Shaodian Zhang, Furu Wei, andMing Zhou.
Recognizing Named Entities inTweets.
In Proceedings of ACL 2011, pages359?367, Stroudsburg, PA, USA, 2011.Alexander Pak and Patrick Paroubek.
Twitterbased system: Using twitter for disambiguat-ing sentiment ambiguous adjectives.
In Pro-ceedings of SemEval 2010, SemEval ?10, pages436?439, 2010.John C. Platt.
Sequential minimal optimization:A fast algorithm for training support vector ma-chines.
Technical report, Advances in KernelMethods - Support Vector Learning, 1998.Alan Ritter, Sam Clark, Mausam, and Oren Et-zioni.
Named Entity Recognition in Tweets: AnExperimental Study.
In Proceedings of EMNLP2011, pages 1524?1534, Edinburgh, Scotland,UK., 2011.Hassan Saif, Yulan He, and Harith Alani.
Alleviat-ing data sparsity for twitter sentiment analysis.In Making Sense of Microposts (#MSM2012),pages 2?9, 2012.Hristo Tanev, Maud Ehrmann, Jakub Piskorski,and Vanni Zavarella.
Enhancing event descrip-tions through twitter mining.
In John G. Bres-lin, Nicole B. Ellison, James G. Shanahan, andZeynep Tufekci, editors, ICWSM.
The AAAIPress, 2012.Sudha Verma, Sarah Vieweg, William Corvey,Leysia Palen, James Martin, Martha Palmer,Aaron Schram, and Kenneth Anderson.
NaturalLanguage Processing to the Rescue?
Extracting?Situational Awareness??
Tweets During MassEmergency.
In Proceedings of ICWSM 2011,pages 385?392.
AAAI, 2011.30
