Proceedings of the ACL Student Research Workshop, pages 59?66,Sofia, Bulgaria, August 4-9 2013. c?2013 Association for Computational LinguisticsUnderstanding Verbs based on Overlapping Verbs SensesKavitha RajanLanguage Technologies Research CentreInternational Institute of Information Technology Hyderabad (IIIT-H)Gachibowli, Hyderabad.
500 032.AP.
India.kavitha@research.iiit.ac.inAbstractNatural language can be easily understood byeveryone irrespective  of  their  differences  inage or region or qualification.
The existenceof a conceptual base that underlies all naturallanguages is an accepted claim as pointed outby  Schank  in  his  Conceptual  Dependency(CD) theory.
Inspired by the CD theory andtheories in Indian grammatical  tradition, wepropose a new set of meaning primitives inthis  paper.
We  claim  that  this  new  set  ofprimitives  captures  the  meaning inherent  inverbs and help in forming an inter-lingual andcomputable  ontological  classification  ofverbs.
We  have  identified  seven  primitiveoverlapping  verb  senses  which  substantiateour  claim.
The  percentage  of  coverage  ofthese  primitives  is  100%  for  all  verbs  inSanskrit  and  Hindi  and  3750  verbs  inEnglish.1 IntroductionCommunication  in  natural  language  is  simple.Looking at the ease to learn and communicate inand  across  natural  languages,  the  claim  ofexistence  of  interlingual  conceptual  base(Schank, 1972) seems plausible .Conceptual Dependency (CD) theory tried torepresent a conceptual base using a small set ofmeaning primitives.
To achieve this  goal,  theyput forward a proposal consisting of a small setof  12  primitive  actions,  a  set  of  dependencieswhich connects the primitive actions with eachother and with their actors, objects, instruments,etc.
Their  claim  was  that  this  small  set  ofrepresentational  elements  could  be  used  toproduce  a  canonical  form  for  sentences  inEnglish  as  well  as  other  natural  languages.Representational  theories  like  Scripts,  Plans,Goals and Understanding(SPGU) representations(Schank  and  Abelson,  1977)  were  developedfrom  the  CD  theory.
None  of  the  descendanttheories  of  CD  could  focus  on  the  notion  of'primitives' and the idea faded in the subsequentworks.Identification of meaning primitives is an areaintensely explored and a vast number of theorieshave  been  put  forward,  namely,  (PRO:Conceptual  semantics  (Jackendoff,  1976),Meaning-text theory (Mel?
?uk,1981),  SemanticPrimes  (Wierzbicka,  1996),   Conceptualdependency  theory  (Schank,  1972)  PreferenceSemantics (Wilks, 1975) CONTRA: Language ofThought (Fodor, 1975)).
Through our work, weput  forward  a  set  of  seven meaning primitivesand  claim  that  the  permutation/combination  ofthese  seven  meaning  primitives  along  withontological  attributes  is  sufficient  to  develop  acomputational model for meaning representationacross languages.This  paper  looks  at  the  ConceptualDependency  Theory  created  by  Roger  Schank(Schank,  1973;  Schank,  1975)  and compares itwith theories in Indian grammatical tradition.
Wediscuss these in section 2 and section 3.
We thenanalyze if we can modify Schank's approach todefine  a  more  efficient  set  of  primitives.
Weconclude by introducing the small set of meaningprimitives  which  we  have  found  to  cover  allverbs  in  Indian  languages  like  Sanskrit,  Hindiand almost all verbs in English.2 Conceptual DependencyAccording  to  Schank,  linguistic  and  situationalcontexts  in  which  a  sentence  is  uttered  isimportant for understanding the meaning of thatsentence.
The CD theory was developed to createa  theory  of  human  natural  languageunderstanding.
The initial premise of the theory59is:  basis  of  natural  language  is  conceptual.According to the theory, during communication,to-and-fro  mapping  happens  between  linguisticstructures  and  the  conceptual  base  throughconcepts.
It  is  due  to  the  existence  of  thisconceptual base and concept based mapping thata person, who is multilingual, is able to switchbetween languages easily.The conceptual base consists of concepts andthe relations between concepts.
Therefore,  it  isresponsible  for  formally  representing  theconcepts underlying an utterance.
There are threetypes of concepts: a) nominal; b) action and  c)modifier.
We will  concentrate only on  'action'since our work is related to verbs.CD?s basic premise is that the ACTION is thebasis of any proposition that is not descriptive ofa  static  piece  of  the  world.
Conceptualizationconsists  of  action,  actors  and  cases  that  aredependent on that action.
An ACTOR is definedas  an  animate  object  and  an  OBJECT  as  anyconcrete physical entity.
CD representations use12 primitive ACTs out of which the meaning ofverbs,  abstract  and  complex  nouns  areconstructed.Primitives are  elements  that  can be used inmany  varied  combinations  to  express  themeaning of what underlies a given word.
In CD,primitives were arrived at by noticing structuralsimilarities that existed when sentences were putinto  an  actor-action-object  framework.
Usingthese  acts,  set  of  states  and  set  of  conceptualroles, it is possible to express a large amount ofthe meanings expressible in a natural language.3 Indian grammatical traditionThe Nirukta1(Sarup,1920; Kunjunni et.
al., 1990)statement  "Verbs  have  operation  as  itspredominant element" proposes that ?process?
isthe  most  important  element  in  a  verb.
As  allwords can be derived from verbal roots, we cansay that  words in a natural  language are eitheractivities (verbs) or derived from some activity(nouns).
For example:r?j?
(king) is derived from (the root) r?j (toshine)v k?
a (tree) is derived from (the root)  v  (to?
?cover)  k ?
(the earth)?Verb is called kriy?
in Sanskrit.
kriy?
standsfor  action  or  activity.
Verbs  consists  of  bothaction  and  state  verbs.
Sage  K?ty?yana  (3rd1  Nirukta (Kunjunni et.al., page-88).century  BC)  put  forward  the  bh?va-baseddefinition to define all types of verbs.
Accordingto  Nirukta  verse  1.1  (Sarup,  1920)  thecharacteristic that defines a verb form is its verbhaving  bh?va  as  its  principal  meaning.
InSanskrit,  bh?va  is  a  morphological  form  ofbhavati  and  bhavati  means  'happening'.
Sostructure of  bh?va can be defined as structure ofhappening which is explained in section 4.1.According to sage V?rsy?ya?
?i, Nirukta verse1.2 (Sarup, 1920), there are 6 variants of bh?vaor verb which, we believe, can be compared to 6fundamental processes.
That is, a process 'verb'consists of six stages.
They are:coming into being   - j?yate'is born, comes into being'existing       - asti 'is'changing                 - vipari amate ?
'undergoes modification'increasing               - vardhate'grows, increases'diminishing            - apaksIyate  'diminishes'?ceasing to be          - vinasyati   f'perishes'?4 Our ApproachWe  are  trying  to  use  existing  theories  in  thetraditional school of Sanskrit language, namely,Navya-Ny?ya  for  identification  and  formalrepresentation  of  primitive  actions.
We  workwithin the formal framework of Neo- Vaisesika?Formal Ontology (NVFO)2.4.1 Form of verbHappening is formally conceived as punctuationbetween two discrete states in a context.
Sinceevery  happening  consists  of  minimally  twodifferent  states,  there  is  an  atomic  sense  ofmovement in it.
Movement means whenever anaction takes place two states come into existence.The initial state, at the beginning of an action anda final state, after the completion of the action.The two states can be same or different.
Time isan  inseparable  part  of  this  structure  becausebetween  initial  and  final  states  there  can  be  nnumber  of  intermediate  states  which  aresequential.Happening (Sanskrit, bhavati) is the change ofstate from one to another in a context.
Accordingto  Bhart?ihari  (5th century  CE)  every  verb  has2 Vaisesika ontology, due to Ka??
?
?da (Rensink, 2004), Prasastap?da (Hutton, 2010) and Udayana (?
Ka ??
da, 1986) hasbeen formalized by Navjyoti (Tavva and Singh, 2010).60'sense of sequence' and 'state' in it.
Hence, everyverb projects a 'sense of happening', making thissense  omnipresent  in  all  verbs.
Therefore,bhavati  is  a  'universal  verb'.
In  thenominalization of bhavati, 'bh?va3'  has a formalstructure  and  has  been  named  'punct'4.
Theformal  representation  of  bh?va  is  shown  inFigure1.The structure of (universal verb) 'punct' is:< state1 | state2, (Context) Feature Space >The structure can also be represented in shortformat as:   < s1 / s2 | FS (C)>Figure1.
Structure of happeningFrom Sanskritist tradition, we have adopted theconcept  of  universal  verb.
Our  originalcontribution  is  that  we  have  defined  anontological  structure  (see  Figure1)  to  represent?universal verb?
and have used it to represent theseven primary verb senses (primitives) which wehave identified.
All verbs in a language can berepresented formally using this structure.4.2  Identifying  Overlapping  VerbalsensesCan we have a few number of primitive meaningsenses  whose  permutation  /  combination  willenable us to explain all meanings in a language?Primitive verb senses in language were identifiedusing  an  approach  similar  to  Lesk?s  method(Lesk,  1986)  of  finding  meaning  overlaps  forsolving Word Sense Disambiguation problem.All verbs and definitions of all senses of eachverb  in  Sanskrit  (2500)  and  3750  verbs  inEnglish  were  collected.
The  verb  senses  werecollected  from  various  on-line  dictionaries  inboth the languages.
From these definitions, verbswhich are used to explicate defined verbs wereidentified.
The  procedure  followed  for3 Bh?va is defined by Pata?jali as (1)existence,(2)something that comes into being, and (3)something that is brought into being.4 The formalization in NVFO is based on the idea ofan ontological form which is recursive.
This form iscalled 'punct'.
Using punct's categories of Vaisesika ?
?ontology can be derived.identifying frequent  verbs  is  explained using  asample verb 'fall':Definitions of different verb senses of ?fall?
fromtwo different sources are given below:Source 1 (Dictionary.com):(to drop or descend under the  force of  gravity,as  to  a  lower  place through loss  or lack ofsupport), (to come or  drop down suddenly to alower position, especially to  leave a standing orerect  position  suddenly, whether voluntarily ornot),  (to become less or  lower;  become  of  alower  level, degree, amount, quality,  value,number, etc.
; decline)Source 2 (WordNet):(descend in  free  fall  under  the  influence  ofgravity),  (decrease in  size,  extent,  or  range),(move downward and lower, but not necessarilyall  the  way),  (move  in  a  specified  direction),(lose an  upright  position  suddenly),  (droponeself to a lower or less erect position) are fewsenses.All words in bold represent ?movement?
in anegative  manner.
Since  movement  is  the  mostcommon  concept,  ?move?
is  taken  as  anoverlapping  primitive  verb  sense.
Otherprimitives like know, do, is, have, cut, and coverwere obtained by similar procedure.In dictionaries,  overlapping verb senses usedto explicate meaning of defined verbs, show therelatedness  of  two  verbs.
The  phenomenonknown  as  'Dictionary  circularity'  (Wierzbicka,1996) confirms the existence of this claim.In WordNet, the existence of most frequentlyused  verbs  is  represented  through  8  ?commonverbs?
(Miller et.
al, 1990): have/ has, be, make,run,  set,  go,  take  and  get.
State  is  dealt  withseparately  in  WordNet.
We  have  modified  the?common verbs?
concept of WordNet to includethe concept of verbiality ?
the ability to denote aprocess developing in time (Lyudmila, 2010).To  analyze  the  phenomena  of  overlappingmeanings  of  verbs,  we  studied  verbs  from  adatabase  of  3750  verbs  and  two  other  lexicalresources:WordNet, Webster English Dictionary.From the word frequencies of the verbs in thesethree resources, we calculated the percentages5 ofoverlapping  verb  senses  used  to  explicatemeaning of defined verbs.
The results are shownin Table 1.
Total verbs (unique word forms) inthe three resources ?5 Percentage is calculated taking the frequency of averb w.r.t the total verbs in the particular source.ContextState1State261Our database              3750Webster Dictionary (Morehead, 2001)   1928WordNet (Princeton University)             3400Percentages  of  overlapping  atomic  meaningsused to explicate meaning of defined verbs in thethree resources are shown in Table 1.OurDatabase WordNetWebsterDictionary?do?
58.96% ?do?
37.40% ?is?
8.60%?is?
6.36% ?is?
9.88% ?do?
16.18%?have?
4.12% ?have?11.7% ?know?
11.98%?move?17.69% ?move?11.6% ?move?
11.93%?know?
4.96% ?cut?
7.17% ?have?
10.48%?cover?
4.75% ?cover?5.3% ?cover?
8.86%?cut?
3.22% ?know?4.97%  ?cut?
3.68%Table1.
Sample data of  percentages of verbs in threeresources.When verbs and their  definitions in Englishlanguage were analyzed it was found that basicverb senses like 'know',  'do',  'have',  'move',  'is','cut',  and  'cover'  have  higher  frequency.
Theoccurrence of higher frequencies of some verbsindicated  that  those  were  the  verbs  withmaximum  meaning  sense  overlap  with  otherverbs.4.3 The Seven PunctsIn  order  to  handle  similarities  and  overlaps  inmeaning  we  have  developed  the  concept  ofoverlapping  verbal  sense  or  'punct'.
Theseprimitive  verbal  senses  are  intended  to  bebuilding blocks out of which meaning of verbscan  be  constructed.
We  have  identified  seven'puncts'.
Two works WordNet (8 common verbs)and  Nirukta  (6  fundamental  processes)  wereinfluential  in  restricting  the  number  ofoverlapping verb senses to 7.
We have modifiedthe 8 common verbs in WordNet (have, be, get,set,  make,  do,  run,  take)  in  a  way  that  eachprimitive meaning sense can be represented as acombination  of  ?state?
and  ?change?.
Conceptslike  exist  and un-exist,  join and un-join,  knowand  un-know,  do  and  un-do,  ascribing  someactions  to  some  objects  and  un-ascribe,movement / change and possess and un-possessare the basic meaning senses we have identified.?un?
stand  for   opposite  here.
Each  primitivemeaning  sense  consists  of  a  sense  and  itsnegation.
We  have  seen  that  verbs  acrosslanguages  can  be  classified  using  this  sevenprimitives.
Percentage of coverage of these sevenprimitives in Sanskrit  and English are given inTable 2.Puncts Percentage in English VerbsPercentage  inSanskrit VerbsKnow 4.96 4.27Move 17.69 12.41Do 58.90 56.99Have 4.12 7.79Is 6.36 7.41Cut 3.22 7.06Cover 4.75 4.07Table2.
Percentage6 of coverage of the seven verbsenses (puncts) in English & SanskritUsing this  set  of  7 'puncts'  it  is  possible toexpress meaning inherent in verbs in a languageand  also  to  link  the  related  verbs  acrosslanguages.
We  will  explain  this  by  a  deeperanalysis of the seven 'puncts' (see Table 3).The  'punct'  can  be  used  for  identifyingsimilarities  between verbs  like 'fall',  'plummet','flow' all of which have 'move' as primary senseand they can be used for  finding out  differentsenses of the same verb like 'break'.
Thus 'break'can have primary sense  of  'cut'  and secondarysense of 'do' when the meaning is 'to destroy orstop or interrupt or cause something to separatesomething'.
Similarly,  'break'  can  also  have'move'  as  primary  sense  and  'is'  as  secondarysense when the meaning is  'voice  change of  aperson or day or dawn break or breaking news '.Though a verb can have two to all seven verbalsenses, we are grouping verbs looking at just theprimary and secondary verb senses.
A verb canbe  in  more  than  one  group.
Once  they  areclassified  according  to  their  primary  andsecondary meanings we put verbs in groups, sayall verbs having 'move' as primary sense and 'do'as secondary sense will be in a group.Punct(ElementaryBh?va-s)ExplanationKnow: Sense ofknowingKnow / KnowerConceptualize,  construct  ortransfer  information  between  or6A verb can be explicated by more than one verb(overlapping meaning component) hence the total ofthe percentages of the verbs, which have beenidentified as the overlapping components is not 100.62within an animal.Move: Sense ofMove/  change  /processBefore / AfterEvery process has a movement in it.The  movement  maybe  a  change  ofstate or location.Do  :  Sense  ofagencyAgent / ActionA  process  which  cannot  beaccomplished without a doer.Have : Sense ofpossession  orhavingGrip / GraspPossessing, obtaining or transferringa quality or object.Be  :  Sense  ofstate of beingLocus / LocateeContinuously having or possessing aquality.Cut  :  Sense  ofpart and wholePart / WholeSeparation  of  a  part  from whole  orjoining  of  parts  into  a  whole.Processes  which  causes  a  pain.Processes  which  disrupt  the  normalstate.Cover : Sense ofascribe  andascriptionWrap / WrappedProcesses which pertain to a certainspecific object or category.
It is like abounding.Table3.
PunctsWe believe that every word is distinct.
'Thereare  no  real  synonyms  and  that  no  two  wordshave exactly  the same meaning'  (Palmer,  1986page-89).
If all  words are distinct how can weshow  its  distinctness?
We  have  observed  thatthere is at least one ontological attribute whichmakes each word different from the other.
Theyare  called  ontological  attributes  as  they  areconcepts  like  space,  time,  manner,  reason  andsub-features  like  direction-linear,  source,destination, effect etc.
which can be representedinter-lingually.
We  have  named  the  set  ofattributes as 'feature set'.
Feature set is a part ofthe context  C defined in the structure of 'punct'.Verbs with same feature set across languages canbe  cross-linked.
For  example,  if  we  want  torepresent verb ?breathe?
in another language, wejust  have  to  map  the  attributes   identified  for?breathe?
which are ?breathe1)  move, instrument-lungs, object-air,manner-into and out ofbreathe2) say, object-something, manner- veryquietlybreathe3)  open, object-wine bottle, duration-short time, purpose-improve flavor.5 Comparison of primitivesA comparison  of  primitives  of  CD theory  andour approach is given in Table 4.
Correspondingto each ACT of CD theory the explanation andPuncts in order of priority of meaning senses isgiven.ACT Explanation  aboutACTPUNCTS  inorder of meaningsenseATRANS Transfer  of  anabstract relationshipsuch  as  possessionownership  orcontrol (give)Do / Have / CutPTRANS Transfer  of  thephysical location ofan object (go)Do / Move / CutPROPEL Application  of  aphysical force to anobject (push)Do / Move / CutMOVE Movement  of  abody  part  of  ananimal  by  thatanimal (kick)Do / MoveGRASP Grasping  of  anobject  by  an  actor(grasp)Do / Have / CutINGEST Taking  in  of  anobject by an animalto the inside of thatanimal (eat)Do  /  Have  /Move / CutEXPEL Expulsion  of  anobject  from  theobject of an animalinto  the  physicalworld (cry)Move / Do / IsMTRANS Transfer  of  mentalinformationbetween animals orwithin  an  animal(tell)Do  /  Know  /MoveMBUILD Construction  by  ananimal  of  newinformation  of  oldinformation(decide)Know  /  Do  /Cover / MoveCONC Conceptualize  orthink about an idea(think)Know  /  Do  /MoveSPEAK Actions  ofproducing  soundsDo / Move63(say)ATTEND Action of attendingor focusing a senseorgan  towards  astimulus (listen)Know / DoTable4.
Comparison of ACT and Punct.6    Issue and SolutionThe uniform identification of verb sense meansidentifying the most general sense attached to averb, as done by an ordinary person.
One can seethat more than one verb can be used to explicatethe meaning of a verb and there is an order inwhich  the  verbs  are  used.
This  order  helps  infinding  the  primary,  secondary  and  tertiarymeaning  senses.
The  order  is  found  bynominalizing  verbs  in  a  simple  sentence.
Thismethod helps in resolving inconsistencies, if any,while identifying meaning senses.
For example:?
you confuse me -> you create {confusion inme} ?
?You  create  {{confused  (state  of  Knowledge)about something (object of knowledge)} in me}??
{You do creation of}  {{?Confused  (state  ofKnowledge)  about  something  (object  ofknowledge)} in me}.In the last sentence: ?do?
is tertiary sense, ?know?is secondary sense and ?is {state of knowledge}?is the primary sense of verb ?confuse?.The seven verb senses thus identified are thebuilding blocks out of which meanings of verbsare  constructed.
The  primary  and  secondarysenses of all verbs in English and Sanskrit wereidentified.
For English verbs, the entire verb list(3750) enlisted by Levin (Levin, 1993) includingextensions  (Dang  et.
al,  1998;  Kipper  et.
al,2006;  Korhonen  and  Briscoe,  2004)  wasclassified  according  to  the  new  classification.For Sanskrit verbs, data (more than 3000 verbs(Sanskrit  dh?tu7)  including  variations  inaccentuation)  was  collected  from  variousresources (Palsule, 1955; Palsule, 1961; Liebich,1922;  Varma,  1953;  Kale,  1961;  Apte,  1998;Williams, 2008; Capeller, 1891).
The meaningsof  English  verbs  were  obtained  from  various7Pata?jali's basic semantic definition of the term dh?tuis as follows :- An item which denotes by its intrinsicdenotative nature something that is brought into being- such a thing is referred to by the term bh?va or kriy?- is called dh?tudictionaries  (on-line  English  dictionaries)  andthe senses were identified based on intuition.The  annotation  process  was  to  identify  theprimary  and  secondary  meaning  senses  of  allverbs  and  ontological  attributes  of  verbs  in  7groups  (all  verbs  with  the  same  primary  verbsenses  formed  one  group).
The  annotation  ofverbs  was  done  for  four  languages:  Sanskrit,English, Hindi and Telugu.
Verbs in Sanskrit andEnglish  were  compiled  and  annotated  by  onetrained  annotator  and  cross-checked  by  anequally trained second annotator.
The differencesin  annotation,  around  10%,  were  resolved  bydiscussion.
Annotation in Hindi and Telugu wasdone by 9 and 25 annotators  respectively.
Theannotators were humans and native speakers oftheir  languages,  having  an  idea  of  the  newapproach.
The average ratio of correctness was64%.
The classification was done manually.Based on this classification the verb groupsformed have exhibited similarity in syntactic andsemantic  behavior.
The  pattern  of  Stanforddependency  relations  formed  among  verbs  ofsame groups showed a similarity of 60%.
Thissimilarity in relations were used to form WSDrules which helped in increasing the  accuracy ofEnglish  to  Hindi  Anusaaraka8 MachineTranslation system output by 36.04%.7 ConclusionConceptual  Dependency  theory  was  based  ontwo assumptions:1.
If  two  sentences  have  same  meaning  theymust  have  similar  representation  regardless  ofthe words used.2.
Information implicitly stated in the sentenceshould be stated explicitly.Our approach is based on two assumptions:1.
There  is  a  conceptual  base  underlying  allnatural languages.2.
All content words are derived from verb root.
'Punct'  is  a  mathematical  representation  ofconceptual  base  in  terms  of  state  and  changewhich  can  be  used  for  computational  purpose.Identification  of  overlapping  verbal  senseenables  a  classification  based  on  meaning.Verbal  sense  identification  along  with  featurespace which includes ontological  attributes  cangive a better classification and understanding ofverbs  and  their  behavior.
Application  of  theconcept  of  'punct'  in  NLP  applications  like8 http://anusaaraka.iiit.ac.in64machine  translation  has  shown  to  increase  itsperformance by 36.04%.8 ReferencesAnna  Korhonen  and  Ted  Briscoe.
2004.
ExtendedLexical-Semantic  Classification  of  EnglishVerbs.
Proc.
of  the  42nd  Meeting  of  the  ACL,Workshop on Computational Lexical Semantics.Anna  Wierzbicka.
1996.
Semantics:  Primes  anduniversals .Oxford: Oxford University Press.Arend  Rensink.
2004.
GROOVE.GRaphs  forObject-Oriented  VErifiction  .http://groove.cs.utwe nte.nl/.Beth  Levin.
1993.
English  Verb  Classes  andAlternation,  A Preliminary Investigation.
TheUniversity of Chicago Press.Bruno  Liebich.
1922.
Materialien  zum  Dhatupatha, Heidelberg.
Carl Winter?s University.Capeller.
1891.
'Sanskrit-English  OnlineDictionary'.
Retrieved  from  http://www.sanskrit-lexicon.unikoeln.de/scans/MWScan/tamil/index.htmlFrank Robert Palmer.
1976.
Semantics.
Cambridge:CUP.Hoa Trang Dang , Karin Kipper , Martha Palmer, andJoseph Rosenzweig.
1998.
Investigating regularsense extensions based on intersective  Levinclasses.
Proc.
of the 36th Meeting of the ACL andthe 17th COLING.Gajanan Balkrishna Palsule.
1955.
A Concordanceof  Sanskrit  Dhatupath, Deccan  CollegeDissertation Series, Bhandarkar Oriental ResearchInstitute, Poona.Gajanan  Balkrishna  Palsule.
1961.
The  SanskritDhatupathas, University of Poona.Graham Hutton.
2010.
'Introduction to Categories'Lecture notes.
University  of  Birmingham,  23-27April.George  A.  Miller,  Richard  Beckwith,  ChristianeFellbaum,Derek Gross, and Katherine Miller.
1990.
'Introduction  to  WordNet:  An  On-LineLexical Database,' Int'l J. Lexicography, vol.
3,no.
4, pp.
235-244.Igor  A  Mel??uk.
(1981).
"Meaning-Text  Models:  Arecent trend in Soviet linguistics".
Annual Reviewof Anthropology 10: 27?62.James R. Hurford.
2007.
The Origins of Meaning:Language  in  the  Light  of  Evolution, OxfordUniversity PressJerry  A  Fodor.
1975.
The  Language  Of  Thought.Crowell Press.
pp 214.John W M Verhaar,1966.
The  Verb  `Be'  and ItsSynonyms,  Foundation  of  LanguageSupplementary Series.
Springer.Ka??da.
1986.
The Vais esika sutras of  Ka?
?
?dawith  the commentary of S?amkara Mis?ra andextracts  from  the  gloss  of  Jayan?r?ya?a.Translation in English by Nandalal Sinha.Allahabad (1911); Delhi (1986).Karin  Kipper  Schuler.
2005.
VerbNet:  A  Broad-coverage,  Comprehensive  Verb  Lexicon.PhDdissertation, University of Pennsylvania.Kunjunni.
K.  Raja  and  Harold  G.  Coward.
1990.Encyclopedia  of  Indian  Philosophies:  Thephilosophy of the grammarians, Volume 5.New Delhi, India: Motilal Banarsidass.
p. 324.Lakshman Sarup.
1920.
The Nighantu and Nirukta.Motilal Banarasidass.
Delhi.Lyudmila Osinovskaya.
2010.
Verb Classification.Tyumen State University.Michael  E.  Lesk.
1986.
Automatic  sensedisambiguation  using  machine  readabledictionaries: how to tell a pine cone from anice cream cone.
In SIGDOC '86: Proceedings ofthe 5th annual international conference on Systemsdocumentation,  pages  24-26,  New  York,  NY,USA.
ACM.Monier  Williams.
2008.
'Sanskrit  English  onlineDictionary',retrieved  from  http://www.sanskritlexicon.
uni-koeln.de/monier/Moreshvar  Ramchandra  Kale  1962.
A  higherSanskrit grammar, for the use of schools andcolleges.
Online:    Retrieved  fromhttp://ia700307.us.archive.org/35/items/highersanskritgr00kaleuoft/highersanskritgr00kaleuoft .pdf.Philip  D.  Morehead.
2001.
The  New  AmericanWebster Handy  College  Dictionary.Signet Book.
Fourth Edition.Rajesh Tavva and Navjoti Singh.
2010.
GenerativeGraph  Grammar  of  Neo-Vai?esika  FormalOntology.
In  G.N.Jha,  editor,  SanskritComputational  Linguistics,  pages  91?105.Springer.65Ray  Jackendoff.
1976.
Toward  an  explanatorysemantic  representation.
Linguistic  Inquiry 7 (1):89?150.Roger  Schank.
1972  Conceptual  Dependency:  ATheory  of  Natural  Language  Understanding.Cognitive Psychology 3, pp.
552-631.Roger  Schank.
1973.
Conceptualizationsunderlying  natural  language.
In  ComputerModels of Thought and Language, R. Schank &K. Colby, eds.
San Francisco: W.H.
Freeman.Roger  Schank.
1975.
The  Primitive  ACTs  ofConceptual Dependency.
Yale  University.New Haven CT. TINLAP?75.
Proceedings of  the1975  workshop  on  Theoretical  issues  in  naturallanguage processing.
Pages 34-37.Roger  Schank  and  Robert  Paul  Abelson.
1977.Scripts,  Plans,  Goals,  and  Understanding.Lawrence Erlbaum Amociates.
Hilldale NJ.Siddheshwar  Varma.
1953.
The  Etymologies  ofYaska.
Vishveshvaranand Institute Publications.Vaman  Shivram  Apte,  1998.
'Apte  SanskritDictionary',  Retrieved  from  http://www.aa.tufs.ac.jp  /~tj un/sktdic/.Yorick  Wilks,  1975  An  intelligent  analyzer  andunderstander  of  English.
Comm.
Assn.
Comp.Mach.
18, 264-274.66
