Proceedings of the 51st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics, pages 151?156,Sofia, Bulgaria, August 4-9 2013. c?2013 Association for Computational LinguisticsPATHS: A System for Accessing Cultural Heritage CollectionsEneko Agirre?, Nikolaos Aletras?, Paul Clough?, Samuel Fernando?,Paula Goodale?, Mark Hall?, Aitor Soroa?
and Mark Stevenson?(?)
IXA NLP Group, University of the Basque CountryManuel Lardizabal, 1, 20.018 Donostia, Basque Country(?)
Department of Computer Science, Sheffield University211 Portobello, Sheffield S1 4DP, United KingdomAbstractThis paper describes a system for navigat-ing large collections of information aboutcultural heritage which is applied to Eu-ropeana, the European Library.
Euro-peana contains over 20 million artefactswith meta-data in a wide range of Euro-pean languages.
The system currently pro-vides access to Europeana content withmeta-data in English and Spanish.
The pa-per describes how Natural Language Pro-cessing is used to enrich and organise thismeta-data to assist navigation through Eu-ropeana and shows how this information isused within the system.1 IntroductionSignificant amounts of information about culturalheritage has been digitised in recent years and isnow easily available through online portals.
How-ever, this vast amount of material can also be over-whelming for many users since they are providedwith little or no guidance on how to find and inter-pret this information.
Potentially useful and rel-evant content is hidden from the users who aretypically offered simple keyword-based searchingfunctionality as the entry point into a cultural her-itage collection.
The situation is very differentwithin traditional mechanisms for viewing culturalheritage (e.g.
museums) where artefacts are or-ganised thematically and users guided through thecollection.This paper describes a system that allows usersto explore large cultural heritage collections.
Nav-igation is based around the metaphor of pathways(or trails) through the collection, an approach thathas been widely explored as an alternative to stan-dard keyword-based search (Furuta et al 1997;Reich et al 1999; Shipman et al 2000; White andHuang, 2010).
Pathways are sets of artefacts or-ganised around a theme which form access pointsto the collection.Pathways are a useful way to access informa-tion about cultural heritage.
Users accessing thesecollections are often unfamiliar with their content,making keyword-based search unsuitable sincethey are unable to formulate appropriate queries(Wilson et al 2010).
Non-keyword-based searchinterfaces have been shown to be suitable for ex-ploratory search (Marchionini, 2006).
Pathwayssupport this exploration by echoing the organisedgalleries and guided tours found in museums.2 Related WorkHeitzman et al(1997) describe the ILEX systemwhich acts as a guide through the jewellery col-lection of the National Museum of Scotland.
Theuser explores the collection through a set of webpages which provide descriptions of each artefactthat are personalised for each user.
The systemmakes use of information about the artefacts theuser has viewed to build up a model of their in-terests and uses this to customise the descriptionsof each artefact and provide recommendations forfurther artefacts in which they may be interested.Grieser et al(2007) also explore providing rec-ommendations based on the artefacts a user hasviewed so far.
They make use of a range of tech-niques including language modelling, geospatialmodelling and analysis of previous visitors?
be-haviour to provide recommendations to visitors tothe Melbourne Museum.Grieser et al(2011) explore methods for de-termining the similarity between museum arte-facts, commenting that this is useful for navigationthrough these collections and important for per-sonalisation (Bowen and Filippini-Fantoni, 2004;O?Donnell et al 2001), recommendation (Bohn-ert et al 2009; Trant, 2009) and automatic tourgeneration (Finkelstein et al 2002; Roes et al2009).
They also use exhibits from Melbourne151Museum and apply a range of approaches to deter-mine the similarity between them, including com-paring descriptions and measuring physical dis-tance between them in the museum.These approaches, like many of the systemsthat have been developed for online access to cul-tural heritage (e.g.
(Hage et al 2010)), are basedaround virtual access to a concrete physical space(i.e.
a museum).
They often provide tours whichare constrained by the physical layout of the mu-seum, such as virtual museum visits.
However,these approaches are less suitable for unstructuredcollections such as databases of cultural heritageartefacts collected from multiple institutions orartefacts not connected with existing physical pre-sentation (e.g.
in a museum).
The PATHS sys-tem is designed for these types of collections andmakes use of natural language analysis to sup-port navigation.
In particular, similarity betweenartefacts is computed automatically (see Section4.1), background information automatically addedto artefact descriptions (see Section 4.2) and a hi-erarchy of artefacts generated (see Section 4.3).3 Cultural Heritage DataThe PATHS system has been applied to data fromEuropeana1.
This is a web-portal to collectionsof cultural heritage artefacts provided by a widerange of European institutions.
Europeana cur-rently provides access to over 20 million artefactsincluding paintings, films, books, archival recordsand museum objects.
The artefacts are providedby around 1,500 institutions which range frommajor institutions, including the Rijksmuseum inAmsterdam, the British Library and the Louvre,to smaller organisations such as local museums.It therefore contains an aggregation of digital con-tent from several sources and is not connected withany one physical museum.The PATHS system makes use of three collec-tions from Europeana.
The first of these con-tains artefacts from content providers in the UnitedKingdom which has meta-data in English.
Theartefacts in the remaining two collections comefrom institutions in Spain and have meta-data inSpanish.CultureGrid Culture Grid2 is a digital contentprovider service from the Collection Trust3.1http://www.europeana.eu2http://www.culturegrid.org.uk3http://www.collectionstrust.org.ukIt contains information about over one mil-lion artefacts from 40 different UK contentproviders such as national and regional mu-seums and libraries.Cervantes Biblioteca Virtual Miguel De Cer-vantes4 contains digitalised Spanish text invarious formats.
In total, the online librarycontains about 75,000 works from a range ofperiods in Spanish history.Hispana The Biblioteca Nacional de Espan?a5contains information about a diverse set ofcontent including text and drawings.
The ma-terial is collected from different providers inSpain including museums and libraries.Europeana stores metadata for each artefact inan XML-based format which includes informationsuch as its title, the digital format, the collection,the year of creation and also a short description ofeach artefact.
However, this meta-data is createdby the content providers and varies significantlyacross artefacts.
Many of the artefacts have onlylimited information associated with them, for ex-ample a single word title.
In addition, the contentproviders that contribute to Europeana use differ-ent hierarchical structures to organise their collec-tions (e.g.
Library of Congress Subject Headings6and the Art and Architecture Thesaurus7), or donot organise their content into any structure.
Con-sequently the various hierarchies that are used inEuropeana only cover some of the artefacts andare not compatible with each other.3.1 Filtering DataAnalysis of the artefacts in these three collectionsrevealed that many have short and uninformativetitles or lack a description.
This forms a challengeto language processing techniques since the arte-fact?s meta-data does not contain enough informa-tion to model it accurately.The collections were filtered by removing anyartefacts that have no description and have eitherfewer than four words in their title or have a titlethat is repeated more than 100 times in the col-lection.
Table 1 shows the number of artefactsin each of the Europeana collections before and4http://www.cervantesvirtual.com5http://www.bne.es6http://authorities.loc.gov/7http://www.getty.edu/research/tools/vocabularies/aat/152after this filter has been applied.
Applying theheuristic leads to the removal of around 31% of theartefacts, although the number varies significantlyacross the collections with 61% of the artefacts inCultureGrid being removed and only 1% of thosein Hispana.Collection Lang.
Total FilteredCultureGrid Eng.
1,207,781 466,958Hispana Sp.
1,235,133 1,219,731Cervantes Sp.
19,278 14,9832,462,192 1,701,672Table 1: Number of artefacts in Europeana collec-tions before and after filtering4 Data ProcessingA range of pre-preprocessing steps were carriedout on these collections to provide additional in-formation to support navigation in the PATHS sys-tem.4.1 Artefact SimilarityWe begin by computing the similarity betweenthe various artefacts in the Europeana collections.This information is useful for navigation and rec-ommendation but is not available in the Europeanacollections since they are drawn from a diverserange of sources.Similarity is computed using an approach de-scribed by Aletras et al(2012).
in which the top-ics generated from each artefact?s metadata usinga topic model are compared.
Latent Dirichlet Al-location (LDA) (Blei et al 2003) is a widely usedtype of topic model in which documents can beviewed as probability distributions over topics, ?.The similarity between a pair of documents can beestimated by comparing their topic distributions.This is achieved by viewing each distribution asa vector of probabilities and then computing thecosine of the angle between them:sim(a, b) =~?a.~?b|~?a| ?
| ~?b|(1)where ~?a is the vector created from the probabilitydistribution generated by LDA for document a.This approach is evaluated using a set of 295pairs of artefacts for which human judgementsof similarity were obtained using crowdsourcing(Aletras et al 2012).
Pearson correlation betweenthe similarity scores and human judgements was0.53.The similarity between all the artefacts in thecollection is computed in a pairwise fashion.
The25 artefacts with the highest score are retained foreach artefact.4.2 Background LinksThe metadata associated with Europeana artefactsis often very limited.
Consequently links to rele-vant articles in Wikipedia were added to each themeta-data of each artefact using Wikipedia Miner(Milne and Witten, 2008) to provide backgroundinformation.
In addition to the link, WikipediaMiner returns a confidence value between 0 and1 for each link based on the context of the item.The accuracy of the links added by WikipediaMiner were evaluated using the meta-data associ-ated with 21 randomly selected artefacts.
Threeannotators analysed the links added and found thata confidence value of 0.5 represented a good bal-ance between accuracy and coverage.
See Fer-nando and Stevenson (2012) for further details.4.3 HierarchiesThe range of hierarchies used by the various col-lections that comprise the Europeana collectionmake navigation difficult (see Section 3).
Con-sequently, the Wikipedia links added to the arte-fact meta-data were used to automatically gener-ate hierarchies that the cover the entire collection.These hierarchies are used by the PATHS systemto assist browsing and exploration.Two approaches are used to generate hierarchiesof Europeana artefacts (WikiFreq and WikiTax).These are combined to generate the WikiMerge hi-erarchy which is used in the PATHS system.WikiFreq uses link frequencies across the en-tire collection to organise the artefacts.
The firststage in the hierarchy generation process is tocompute the frequency with which each linkedWikipedia article appears in the collection.
Thelinks in each artefact are these analysed to con-struct a hierarchy consisting of Wikipedia articles.The links in the meta-data associated with eachartefact are ordered based on their frequency in theentire collection and that set of links then insertedinto the hierarchy.
For example, if the set of or-dered links for an artefact is a1, a2, a3 ?
?
?
an thenthe artefact is then inserted into the hierarchy un-der the branch a1 ?
a2 ?
a3 ?
?
?
?
an, witha1 at the top level in the tree and the artefact ap-pearing under the node an.
If this branch does notalready exist in the tree then it is created.153The hierarchy is pruned to removing nodes withfewer than 20 artefacts in them.
In addition, if anode has more than 20 child nodes, only the 20most frequent are used.WikiTax uses the Wikipedia Taxonomy(Ponzetto and Strube, 2011), a taxonomy derivedfrom Wikipedia categories.
Europeana artefactsare inserted into this taxonomy using the linksadded by Wikipedia Miner with each artefactbeing added to the taxonomy for all categorieslisted in the links.
This leads to a taxonomy inwhich artefacts can occur in multiple locations.Each approach was used to generate hierarchiesfrom the Europeana collections.
The resulting hi-erarchies were evaluated via online surveys, seeFernando et al(2012) for further details.
It wasfound that WikiFreq performed well at placingitems into the correct location in the taxonomy andgrouping together similar items under the samenode.
However, the overall structure of WikiTaxwas judged to be more coherent and comprehensi-ble.WikiMerge combines combines WikiFreq andWikiTax.
WikiFreq is used to link each artefactto Wikipedia articles a1 .
.
.
an, but only the linkto the most specific article, an, is retained.
Thean articles are linked to their parent WikiTax top-ics based on the Wikipedia categories the articlesbelong to.
The resulting hierarchy is pruned re-moving all WikiTax topics that do not have a Wik-iFreq child or have only one child topic.
Finallytop-level topics in the combined hierarchy are thenlinked to their respective Wikipedia root node.The resulting WikiMerge hierarchy has Wik-iFreq topics as its leaves and WikiTax topics asits interior and root nodes.
Experiments showedthat this approach was successful in combiningthe strengths of the two methods (Fernando et al2012).5 The PATHS SystemThe PATHS system provides access to the Euro-peana collections described in Section 3 by mak-ing use of the additional information generated us-ing the approaches described in Section 4.
The in-terface of the PATHS system has three main areas:Paths enables users to navigate via pathways (seeSection 5.1).Search supports discovery of both collection arte-facts and pathways through keyword search(see Section 5.2).Explore enables users to explore the collectionsusing a variety of types of overview (see Sec-tion 5.3).5.1 Paths AreaThis area provides users with access to Europeanathrough pathways or trails.
These are manuallygenerated sets of artefacts organised into a treestructure which are designed to showcase the con-tent available to the user in an organised way.These can be created by users and can be pub-lished for others to follow.
An example path-way on the topic ?railways?
is shown in Figure1.
A short description of the pathway?s content isshown towards the top of the figure and a graphicaloverview of its contents at the bottom.Figure 1: Example pathway on the topic ?rail-ways?Figure 2 shows as example artefact as displayedin the system.
The example artefact is a portraitof Catherine the Great.
The left side of the figureshows information extracted directly from the Eu-ropeana meta-data for this artefact.
The title andtextual description are shown towards the top lefttogether with a thumbnail image of the artefact.Other information from the meta-data is shown be-neath the ?About this item?
heading.
The rightside of the figure shows additional informationFigure 2: Example artefact displayed in system in-terface.
Related artefacts and background links aredisplayed on right hand side154Figure 3: Example visualisations of hierarchy: thesaurus view (top left), tag cloud (top right), map views(bottom)about the artefact generated using the approachesdescribed in Sections 4.1 and 4.2.
Related arte-facts are shown to the user one at a time, click-ing on the thumbnail image leads to the equivalentpage for the related artefact.
Below this are linksto the Wikipedia articles that are identified in thetext of the article?s title and description.5.2 Search AreaThis area allows users to search for artefacts andpathways using standard keyword search imple-mented using Lucene (McCandless et al 2010).5.3 Explore AreaThe system provides a variety of ways to viewthe hierarchies generated using the approach de-scribed in Section 4.3.
Figure 3 shows how theseare displayed for a section of the hierarchy withthe label ?Society?.
The simplest view (shown inthe top left of Figure 3) is a thesaurus type viewin which levels of the hierarchy are represented byindentation.
The system also allows levels of thehierarchy to be viewed as a tag cloud (top right ofFigure 3).
The final representation of the hierar-chy is as a map, shown in the bottom of Figure 3.In this visualisation categories in the hierarchy arerepresented as ?islands?
on the map.
Zooming inon the map provides more detail about that area ofthe hierarchy.6 Summary and Future DevelopmentsThis paper describes a system for navigating Eu-ropeana, an aggregation of collections of culturalheritage artefacts.
NLP analysis is used to organ-ise the collection and provide additional informa-tion.
The results of this analysis are provided tothe user through an online interface which pro-vides access to English and Spanish content in Eu-ropeana.Planned future development of this system in-cludes providing recommendations and more per-sonalised access.
Similarity information (Sec-tion 4.1) can be used to provide information fromwhich the recommendations can be made.
Person-alised access will make use of information aboutindividual users (e.g.
from their browsing be-haviour or information they provide about theirpreferences) to generate individual views of Eu-ropeana.155Online DemoThe PATHS system is available athttp://explorer.paths-project.eu/AcknowledgmentsThe research leading to these results wascarried out as part of the PATHS project(http://paths-project.eu) funded bythe European Community?s Seventh FrameworkProgramme (FP7/2007-2013) under grant agree-ment no.
270082ReferencesN.
Aletras, M. Stevenson, and P. Clough.
2012.
Com-puting similarity between items in a digital libraryof cultural heritage.
Journal of Computing and Cul-tural Heritage, 5(4):no.
16.D.
Blei, A. Ng, and M. Jordan.
2003.
Latent dirichletallocation.
Journal of Machine Learning Research,3:993?1022.F.
Bohnert, D. Schmidt, and I. Zuckerman.
2009.
Spa-tial Process for Recommender Systems.
In Proc.
ofIJCAI 2009, pages 2022?2027, Pasadena, CA.J.
Bowen and S. Filippini-Fantoni.
2004.
Personaliza-tion and the Web from a Museum Perspective.
InProc.
of Museums and the Web 2004, pages 63?78.Samuel Fernando and Mark Stevenson.
2012.
Adapt-ing Wikification to Cultural Heritage.
In Proceed-ings of the 6th Workshop on Language Technologyfor Cultural Heritage, Social Sciences, and Human-ities, pages 101?106, Avignon, France.Samuel Fernando, Mark Hall, Eneko Agirre, AitorSoroa, Paul Clough, and Mark Stevenson.
2012.Comparing taxonomies for organising collections ofdocuments.
In Proc.
of COLING 2012, pages 879?894, Mumbai, India.L.
Finkelstein, E. Gabrilovich, Y. Matias, E. Rivlin,Z.
Solan, G. Wolfman, and E. Ruppin.
2002.
Plac-ing Search in Context: The Concept Revisited.
ACMTrans.
on Information Systems, 20(1):116?131.R.
Furuta, F.. Shipman, C. Marshall, D. Brenner, andH.
Hsieh.
1997.
Hypertext paths and the World-Wide Web: experiences with Walden?s Paths.
InProc.
of the Eighth ACM conference on Hypertext,pages 167?176, New York, NY.K.
Grieser, T. Baldwin, and S. Bird.
2007.
DynamicPath Prediction and Recommendation in a MuseumEnvironment.
In Proc.
of the Workshop on Lan-guage Technology for Cultural Heritage Data (LaT-eCH 2007), pages 49?56, Prague, Czech Republic.K.
Grieser, T. Baldwin, F. Bohnert, and L. Sonenberg.2011.
Using Ontological and Document Similarityto Estimate Museum Exhibit Relatedness.
Journalof Computing and Cultural Heritage, 3(3):1?20.W.R.
van Hage, N. Stash, Y. Wang, and L.M.
Aroyo.2010.
Finding your way through the Rijksmuseumwith an adaptive mobile museum guide.
In Proc.
ofESWC 2010, pages 46?59.J.
Heitzman, C. Mellish, and J. Oberlander.
1997.
Dy-namic Generation of Museum Web Pages: The In-telligent Labelling Explorer.
Archives and MuseumInformatics, 11(2):117?125.G.
Marchionini.
2006.
Exploratory Search: from Find-ing to Understanding.
Comm.
ACM, 49(1):41?46.M.
McCandless, E. Hatcher, and O. Gospodnetic.2010.
Lucene in Action.
Manning Publications.D.
Milne and I. Witten.
2008.
Learning to Link withWikipedia.
In Proc.
of CIKM 2008, Napa Valley,California.M.
O?Donnell, C. Mellish, J. Oberlander, and A. Knott.2001.
ILEX: An architecture for a dynamic hy-pertext generation system.
Natural Language En-gineering, 7:225?250.S.P.
Ponzetto and M. Strube.
2011.
Taxonomy in-duction based on a collaboratively built knowledgerepository.
Artificial Intelligence, 175(9-10):1737?1756.S.
Reich, L. Carr, D. De Roure, and W. Hall.
1999.Where have you been from here?
Trails in hypertextsystems.
ACM Computing Surveys, 31.I.
Roes, N. Stash, Y. Wang, and L. Aroyo.
2009.
Apersonalized walk through the museum: the CHIPinteractive tour guide.
In Proc.
of the 27th Interna-tional Conference on Human Factors in ComputingSystems, pages 3317?3322, Boston, MA.F.
Shipman, R. Furuta, D. Brenner, C. Chung, andH.
Hsieh.
2000.
Guided paths through web-basedcollections: Design, experiences, and adaptations.Journal of the American Society for Information Sci-ence, 51(3):260?272.J.
Trant.
2009.
Tagging, folksonomies and art mu-seums: Early experiments and ongoing research.Journal of Digital Information, 10(1).R.
White and J. Huang.
2010.
Assessing the scenicroute: measuring the value of search trails in weblogs.
In Proc.
of SIGIR 2010, pages 587?594.M.
Wilson, Kulesm B., M. Schraefel, and B. Schnei-derman.
2010.
From keyword search to explo-ration: Designing future search interfaces for theweb.
Foundations and Trends in Web Science,2(1):1?97.156
