Proceedings of the 51st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics, page 2,Sofia, Bulgaria, August 4-9 2013. c?2013 Association for Computational LinguisticsSemantic Parsing with Combinatory Categorial GrammarsYoav Artzi, Nicholas FitzGerald and Luke ZettlemoyerComputer Science & EngineeringUniversity of WashingtonSeattle, WA 98195{yoav,nfitz,lsz}@cs.washington.edu1 AbstractSemantic parsers map natural language sentencesto formal representations of their underlyingmeaning.
Building accurate semantic parserswithout prohibitive engineering costs is a long-standing, open research problem.The tutorial will describe general principles forbuilding semantic parsers.
The presentation willbe divided into two main parts: modeling andlearning.
The modeling section will include bestpractices for grammar design and choice of se-mantic representation.
The discussion will beguided by examples from several domains.
To il-lustrate the choices to be made and show how theycan be approached within a real-life representationlanguage, we will use ?-calculus meaning repre-sentations.
In the learning part, we will describea unified approach for learning Combinatory Cat-egorial Grammar (CCG) semantic parsers, that in-duces both a CCG lexicon and the parameters ofa parsing model.
The approach learns from datawith labeled meaning representations, as well asfrom more easily gathered weak supervision.
Italso enables grounded learning where the seman-tic parser is used in an interactive environment, forexample to read and execute instructions.The ideas we will discuss are widely appli-cable.
The semantic modeling approach, whileimplemented in ?-calculus, could be applied tomany other formal languages.
Similarly, the al-gorithms for inducing CCGs focus on tasks thatare formalism independent, learning the meaningof words and estimating parsing parameters.
Noprior knowledge of CCGs is required.
The tuto-rial will be backed by implementation and exper-iments in the University of Washington SemanticParsing Framework (UW SPF).11http://yoavartzi.com/spf2 Outline1.
Introduction to CCGs2.
Modeling(a) Questions for database queries(b) Plurality and determiner resolution ingrounded applications(c) Event semantics and imperatives in in-structional language3.
Learning(a) A unified learning algorithm(b) Learning with supervised datai.
Lexical induction with templatesii.
Unification-based learning(c) Weakly supervised learning without la-beled meaning representations3 InstructorsYoav Artzi is a Ph.D. candidate in the ComputerScience & Engineering department at the Univer-sity of Washington.
His research studies the acqui-sition of grounded natural language understandingwithin interactive systems.
His work focuses onmodeling semantic representations and designingweakly supervised learning algorithms.
He is a re-cipient of the 2012 Yahoo KSC award.Nicholas FitzGerald is a Ph.D. student at theUniversity of Washington.
His research interestsare grounded natural language understanding andgeneration.
He is a recipient of an Intel Scienceand Technology Center Fellowship and an NSERCPostgraduate Scholarship.Luke Zettlemoyer is an Assistant Professor inthe Computer Science & Engineering departmentat the University of Washington.
His research in-terests are in the intersections of natural languageprocessing, machine learning and decision mak-ing under uncertainty.
Honors include best paperawards at UAI 2005 and ACL 2009, selection tothe DARPA CSSG, and an NSF CAREER Award.2
