Proceedings of the 51st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics, pages 169?174,Sofia, Bulgaria, August 4-9 2013. c?2013 Association for Computational LinguisticsTag2Blog: Narrative Generation from Satellite Tag DataKapila Ponnamperuma Advaith Siddharthan Cheng Zeng Chris MellishDepartment of Computing ScienceUniversity of Aberdeen{k.ponnamperuma, advaith, c.zeng, c.mellish}@abdn.ac.ukRene?
van der WalAberdeen Centre for Environmental Sustainability (ACES)University of Aberdeenr.vanderwal@abdn.ac.ukAbstractThe aim of the Tag2Blog system is tobring satellite tagged wild animals ?tolife?
through narratives that place theirmovements in an ecological context.
Ourmotivation is to use such automaticallygenerated texts to enhance public engage-ment with a specific species reintroductionprogramme, although the protocols devel-oped here can be applied to any animal orother movement study that involves signaldata from tags.
We are working with oneof the largest nature conservation chari-ties in Europe in this regard, focusing ona single species, the red kite.
We de-scribe a system that interprets a sequenceof locational fixes obtained from a satellitetagged individual, and constructs a storyaround its use of the landscape.1 IntroductionWe present a system, Tag2Blog, that uses Natu-ral Language Generation (NLG) in bringing up-to-date information about wild animals in their nat-ural environment to nature enthusiasts.
We fo-cus on the reintroduction of the red kite to theUK.
The red kite, a member of the raptor fam-ily, has been persecuted to near extinction in theUK.
Since 1989, efforts have been underway toreintroduce the species across the UK with mixedsuccess.
Where less successful, illegal activities ofhumans are partly responsible (Smart et al 2010).We are working with the RSPB1, one of thelargest nature conservation charities in Europe,around a reintroduction site where the speciesstruggles to get re-established.
We propose to useNLG for public engagement around a small num-ber of satellite tagged individuals.
The nature con-servation goal is to create a positive perception of1http://www.rspb.org.ukthe species through informative blogs based on themovements of individual birds.
The NLG goal isthe generation of these blogs; specifically, to putindividual locations of a bird into an ecologicalcontext.
This paper describes the design and im-plementation of the system.
We are also carryingout concurrent ecological research on red kites thatwill further inform the NLG component.2 Related workThere is increasing realisation of the potential ofdigital approaches, including the use of websitesand social media, to increase public engagementwith nature conservation issues.
For instance, inthe UK, the Open Air Laboratories (OPAL) net-work2 is a large initiative led by Imperial Col-lege, which aims to create and inspire a new gen-eration of nature-lovers by getting people to ex-plore their local environment (Silvertown, 2009).Such initiatives are typically labour and time in-tensive, and require continual effort to maintain in-terest through the creation of new content.
To date,initiatives such as OPAL have largely focused onbiological recording as a public engagement tool,thereby using - for example - standard social net-working sites to prompt the collection of speciesdistributional data (Stafford et al 2010), or webinterfaces that use NLG to provide feedback to cit-izen scientists (Blake et al 2012).We propose something altogether different: theuse of sensor data as a starting point for public en-gagement through the delivery of self-updating au-tomatically generated blogs.
This application pro-vides fresh challenges for the field of NLG, wheretypically systems are designed to offer decisionsupport in the workplace (Goldberg et al 1994;Portet et al 2009).
Decision support requires ac-curacy and clarity first and foremost.
We, on theother hand, aim to generate texts that are suffi-2http://www.opalexplorenature.org169Figure 1: Screenshot of the Tag2Blog system.ciently fluent and engaging for the general publicto be attracted and informed by.This does not mean that there is no precedentto our work.
There are a handful of NLG sys-tems that offer ?info-tainment?, such as Dial YourDisc (Van Deemter and Odijk, 1997) and Ilex(O?Donnell et al 2001).
Systems that gener-ate sports commentary are particularly relevant, asthey contextualise objects spatially and temporallyand track the movement of objects as part of thegame analysis (Andre?
et al 2000).
Rhodes et al(2010) further explore dramatic narrative genera-tion, to bring emotional content into the texts.We subscribe to the same goals, adding to thesethe requirement that texts should be easy to read.For instance, ecological concepts (such as site fi-delity) could be communicated by explicitly defin-ing them.
However, we would prefer these to beinferred from more engaging narratives, such asthat in Fig.
1, which is a screenshot showing sam-ple text generated by our system.3 System architectureThe aim of the Tag2Blog system is to bring satel-lite tagged individuals of a species (e.g., the redkite) ?to life?
by constructing narratives describ-ing their movements.
In this regard, we need tointerpret a sequence of locational fixes obtainedfrom a tagged bird, and construct a story aroundits use of the landscape.
To facilitate ecologi-cal interpretations, it is important to first supple-ment the locational data with other spatially rel-evant data; for example, landscape features andFigure 2: Architecture of the Tag2Blog systemweather.
The Tag2Blog system therefore consistsof two modules: Data Acquisition and Contextual-isation (DAC), described in ?3.1 and Natural Lan-guage Generation (NLG), described in ?3.2.3.1 Data acquisition and contextualisationThis module is composed of a spatial databaseand a set of services for updating and access-ing data.
We start with the information obtainedfrom the satellite tags on the birds, which providetime-stamped locational information.
This is aug-mented with data of associated habitat types, ter-rain features, place names and weather conditions.Our database thus stores rich information aboutthe locations visited, acquired from a variety ofsources summarised below:Habitats: Land cover maps3 are used to as-sociate different habitat types (e.g., coniferouswoodland, moorland, improved grassland, etc.)
to3http://www.ceh.ac.uk170locational fixes.Terrain features: Ordnance Survey Vector Mapdata4 are used to identify features (e.g., lochs,rivers, roads, etc.)
in the vicinity of the fixes.Names: Ordnance Survey Gazetteer data is usedto obtain place and feature names.Weather: The closest weather station to the fixis queried for historical weather data from the timeof the fix, using an external web service.The following services were implemented toupdate and enrich red kite location fixes:Data update service: The satellite tags on thered kites have been programmed to transmit up to5 GPS fixes per day, usually every two hours be-tween 8am and 6pm5.
The satellite data providersends a daily email, using which we update thespatial database with red kite locations automat-ically.
We also provide the conservation charitywith a user interface, to allow them to censor eco-logically sensitive locations (such as nesting sites),as and when required.Data analysis service: Location data of eachindividual bird is periodically clustered (i.e.,weekly) to identify their temporary home ranges.These clusters are spatially represented as ellipsesand are stored in the database so that new fixes canbe compared against known locational patterns.Weather web service client: Weather data rele-vant to the time and location of each red kite loca-tional fix is obtained on demand from a met officeweb service by providing the date, time, and theclosest weather station.Data access service: Each satellite fix is asso-ciated with a Java object (GeoLocation), whichencapsulates the enriched data (habitats, placenames, features, weather, etc.)
for that loca-tion.
Apart from individual locations, overallfight parameters such as distance from geographicfeatures, displacement from or presence withinknown home ranges, are also computed and en-capsulated into a Java object.
These objects aregenerated on demand and passed onto the NLGmodule, described next.3.2 Natural language generation moduleThe Tag2Blog system follows the NLG architec-ture proposed by Reiter and Dale (2000) and is4http://www.ordnancesurvey.co.uk5The satellite tags are solar powered, and only have powerto provide a single fix per day in the winter months.composed of three components: a document plan-ner (?3.2.2), a microplanner (?3.2.3) and a surfacerealiser (?3.2.4).
The document planner utilises adomain model (?3.2.1) to populate and order mes-sage definitions, which are in turn passed on to themicroplanner for creating sentence specifications.The surface realiser then generates text from thesesentence.specifications.3.2.1 Domain model and data analysisThe enriched data, as described above, be usedas such to generate narratives of journeys.
How-ever in order to make these narratives insightful,an ecological interpretation is needed, and kitebehaviours must also be included in the domainmodel.
Siddharthan et al(2012) has identifiedkey behaviours that can be fruitfully communi-cated through such narratives.
We broadly cate-gorise these behaviours into:?
Site fidelity and exploratory behaviour?
Feeding and roosting behaviour?
Social behaviour (associations with other red kites)A domain model was developed to infer likelykite behaviours from the enriched data.
To buildthe domain model, we used explicit and implicitknowledge elicitation methods, such as data anal-ysis and interviews, annotations of NLG producedblogs by ecologists, and analysis of hand-writtenblogs by ecologists from source data.Site fidelity and exploratory behaviour: His-torical location data is used to identify clusters(temporary home ranges) for each bird using theADEHABITATHR6 package (Calenge, 2006).
Inorder to describe the overall movement patternduring the period, spatial data analysis is carriedout and parameters, such as total distance trav-elled, displacement from clusters, percentage offixes within each cluster, are calculated.
Theseparameters are then used to identify the overallmovement pattern.
Fig.
3 shows three such pat-terns: Stationary, Short circular trip and Long dis-tance movement.Feeding and roosting behaviours: After con-ducting structured interviews with ecologists andanalysing blogs written by ecologists, a set ofrules were created to identify different feedingand roosting behaviours.
Likely foraging patternswere defined on the basis of habitat type, season,6http://cran.rstudio.com/web/packages/adehabitatHR171(a) (b) (c)Figure 3: Movement patterns demonstrated in different weeks by different birds: (a) Stationary, stayingwithin the temporary home range, (b) Short circular trip, moving out and returning to the temporaryhome range, and (c) Long distance movement, ending in a different location.
The orange areas representclusters of locations of the red kite from historical data that model temporary home ranges for the bird.time of the day and weather conditions.
The fol-lowing extract from a blog written by an ecolo-gist shows how experts can infer a behaviour fromdata.
Note that it is acceptable in our applicationfor such behaviours to be speculative, as long asthey have a basis in kite ecology, and are plausiblegiven the data.
?Early that evening she was seen in farmlandnear Torness.
Here, the rain must have broughtup earthworms to the surface snacks well worthcatching!
?From this text, we inferred the following rule:Rule: Feeding on EarthwormsIF it previously rained AND habitat is farm land,THEN it is likely that the red kite is feeding onearthworms.We have expressed a range of such behaviours asJBoss7 rules.Social behaviours: Red kites being social birds,there are many social interactions that could be in-ferred from the type of data we brought together.Associations between red kites are typically in-ferred by analysing relative locations of differ-ent red kites.
However, there is one specific be-haviour, communal roosting, where a large groupof red kites sleeps together in woodland duringthe winter months, for which we make use of our7http://www.jboss.org/droolsknowledge of known communal roost locations;i.e., local knowledge provided by ecologists.3.2.2 Document plannerThe document planner carries out content determi-nation and document structuring.Content determination: There are severaltypes of message definitions, implemented asJava classes, that correspond to different narrativedescriptions (flying, feeding, etc.).
The messagegenerator infers possible behaviours (feeding,roosting, exploring, etc.)
using the domain modeland then selects one or more based on contentdetermination rules.
For example, the messagegenerator might infer possible behaviours suchas feeding and exploring from the analysesdescribed above in ?3.2.1.
However, the contentdetermination rules would prioritise exploringbehaviours over feeding (due to their rarity) andhence generate a EXPLORINGMESSAGE, whichcontains the information required to generate adescription of the exploration journey.
Similarly,corresponding messages would be generated forother flying, feeding, and social behaviours.Document structuring: Our weekly blogs con-tain an introductory paragraph, which captures theoverall movement pattern for the week, followedby a more detailed paragraph, which describes in-teresting behaviours during that week.
Each para-172graph is internally represented as a schema, whichalso orders the messages into a document plan.3.2.3 MicroplannerThe document plan generated at the previous stageis passed on to the microplanner for creating textspecifications.
This includes phrase specificationsand their aggregation into sentences.
Clauses arecombined using discourse cues to express differentdiscourse relations, such as concession, compari-son and explanation.3.2.4 Surface realiserThe role of the surface realiser is to convert thetext specification received from the microplannerinto text that the user can read and understand.This includes linguistic realisation (converting thesentence specifications into sentences) and struc-tural realisation (structuring the sentences insidethe document).
Both the linguistic and structuralrealisations are performed by using functionali-ties provided by the SIMPLENLG realiser library(Gatt and Reiter, 2009).4 Utility of blogs in this domainUntil recently, our partner charity was publishinghand-written blogs based on the journeys of thesesatellite tagged red kites.
They have had to closedown the site due to resource constraints: Suchblogs are difficult, monotonous and time consum-ing to produce by hand.
Tag2Blog will allow thecharity to restart this form of public engagement.We have earlier studied the use of ecologicalblogs based on satellite tag data (Siddharthan etal., 2012).
Using hand-written blogs in a toy do-main, we found that readers were willing to an-thromorphise the bird, and generally formed a pos-itive perception of it.
Additionally, users were ableto recall ecological insights communicated in theblog, demonstrating that such blogs are informa-tive as well.In this paper, we restrict ourselves to reportinga very preliminary evaluation of the quality of thecomputer generated blogs.
We compared threeblogs produced from the same data (the move-ments of one individual red kite during one week):a) A computer generated blog of a journey, producedwithout using any domain knowledge as described in?3.2.1, and merely describing spatial movements of thered kite over time.b) A computer generated blog of a journey with ecologicalinsights, as described in ?3.2.1.
This is the productionversion used in Fig.
1.c) Version (a), which has been post-edited by an ecologistto introduce ecological insights into the narrative.
Theecologist was give access to a table containing habitat,terrain and weather information for each satellite fix.Tab.
1 shows samples from the three versions.All three versions were shown to five humanjudges, without indication of provenance.
Theywere asked to rate each blog on a scale of 1 (low)to 5 (high) for how readable, informative, engag-ing and ecologically sound they considered thetexts.
They were also asked to rate the relevance ofeach blog to different age groups (primary schoolchildren, secondary school children and adults).We used as judges, a social scientist specialisedin human?nature interactions, a public engage-ment officer at our University who interacts withlocal schools on a regular basis, a secondaryschool English teacher, and two school students,aged 14 and 16.
Our goal was to obtain a diversityof opinion to inform system design.Tab.
2 shows the ratings of our five evalua-tors for different aspects of each blog.
The av-erages show that in most aspects, version (b) israted higher than version (a) and, rather expect-edly, the human edited/annotated version (c) israted the highest.
But, note that the two schoolstudents rated the automatically generated blogshighly, and that both felt that version (b) was thebest suited for secondary schools.
The public en-gagement officer rated (b) as less readable, andless relevant to schools.
She specifically high-lighted the use of terminology without introduc-tion (e.g., ?roost?
and ?foraging?)
as an issue.Our focus will now be on improving the lan-guage, to address some of the readability and en-gagingness concerns.5 Conclusions and Future WorkWe have presented an NLG system that can gen-erate ecologically informative and engaging narra-tives of animal (red kite) movements.
Our initialevaluations have shown encouraging results andfurther evaluations are now planned.
The systemcan be accessed through http://redkite.abdn.ac.uk/blog/.AcknowledgementsThis research is supported by an award madeby the RCUK Digital Economy programmeto the dot.rural Digital Economy Hub (ref.EP/G066051/1).
We also thank our partner organ-isation, the RSPB (with special thanks to StuartBenn), who manage the reintroduction project.173Text First four sentences from each blog(a) This week, Millie did not travel far, but was actively exploring a small area.
During this week, Millie has beenobserved on various habitats.
However, except Thursday she chose to spend the night at the same woodland nearTorness.
No doubt Millie was not alone this week as kites Moray and Beauly were also observed often in thevicinity.
(b) This week, Millie did not travel far, but was actively exploring a small area mainly within her home range.
Duringthis week, Millie?s foraging patterns have been varied.
However, except Thursday she chose to roost in the samewoodland near Torness.
No doubt Millie had a quite social week as kites Moray and Beauly were also observedoften in the vicinity.
(c) This week Millie did not travel far but was actively exploring a small area north-east of Loch Ness.
Friday morningMillie left the woodland where she spend the night to fly to Loch Ruthven amid heavy rain.
The poor visibilitymay have driven her to fly low when searching for food along the water sides.
Early that evening she was seen infarmland near Torness.Table 1: Excerpts of texts in each experimental conditionSociologist Pub.
Eng.
Teacher 16yo 14yo AverageBlog a b c a b c a b c a b c a b c a b cReadability 3 3 5 4 3 5 3 2 4 3 4 4 3 4 4 3.2 3.2 4.4Informativeness 3 4 5 5 5 5 2 1 2 3 4 5 3 3 4 3.2 3.4 4.4Engagingness 2 4 5 3 3 4 2 1 3 3 4 5 2 4 4 2.4 3.2 4.2Ecological soundness 4 3 3 4 4 4 5 5 5 3 4 4 3 4 3 3.8 4.0 3.8Relevance to:Primary Schools 3 4 5 3 2 4 4 4 4 4 4 3 3 2 3 3.4 3.2 3.8Secondary Schools 3 4 5 4 3 4 2 2 2 4 5 3 3 4 3 3.2 3.6 3.4Adults 3 4 5 4 4 4 3 1 3 3 4 5 3 4 4 3.2 3.4 4.2Table 2: Evaluation of Blogs by ExpertsReferencesE.
Andre?, K. Binsted, K. Tanaka-Ishii, S. Luke, G.Herzog, and T. Rist.
2000.
Three robocup simu-lation league commentator systems.
AI Magazine,21(1):57.S.
Blake, A. Siddharthan, H. Nguyen, N. Sharma, A.Robinson, E. O Mahony, B. Darvill, C. Mellish, andR.
van der Wal.
2012.
Natural language genera-tion for nature conservation: Automating feedbackto help volunteers identify bumblebee species.
InProceedings of the 24th International Conference onComputational Linguistics (COLING 2012), pages311?324.C.
Calenge.
2006.
The package adehabitat for the rsoftware: tool for the analysis of space and habitatuse by animals.
Ecological Modelling, 197:1035.A.
Gatt and E. Reiter.
2009.
SimpleNLG: A realisationengine for practical applications.
In Proceedings ofthe 112th European Workshop on Natural LanguageGeneration (ENLG), pages 90?93.E.
Goldberg, N. Driedger, and R.I. Kittredge.1994.
Using natural-language processing to produceweather forecasts.
IEEE Expert, 9(2):45?53.M.
O?Donnell, C. Mellish, J. Oberlander, and A. Knott.2001.
Ilex: an architecture for a dynamic hypertextgeneration system.
Natural Language Engineering,7(3):225?250.F.
Portet, E. Reiter, A. Gatt, J.
Hunter, S. Sripada,Y.
Freer, and C. Sykes.
2009.
Automatic gener-ation of textual summaries from neonatal intensivecare data.
Artificial Intelligence, 173(7-8):789?816.E.
Reiter and R. Dale.
2000.
Building Natural Lan-guage Generation Systems.
Cambridge UniversityPress.M.
Rhodes, S. Coupland, and T. Cruickshank.
2010.Enhancing real-time sports commentary generationwith dramatic narrative devices.
In Proceedings ofthe Third Joint Conference on Interactive DigitalStorytelling, ICIDS 2010, Lecture Notes in Com-puter Science, pages 111?116.
Springer.A.
Siddharthan, M. Green, K. van Deemter, C. Mel-lish, and R. van der Wal.
2012.
Blogging birds:Generating narratives about reintroduced species topromote public engagement.
In Proceedings of theSeventh International Natural Language GenerationConference (INLG), pages 120?124.J.
Silvertown.
2009.
A new dawn for citizen science.Trends in Ecology & Evolution, 24(9):467?471.J.
Smart, A. Amar, I.M.W.
Sim, B. Etheridge, D.Cameron, G. Christie, and J.D.
Wilson.
2010.Illegal killing slows population recovery of a re-introduced raptor of high conservation concern?thered kite milvus milvus.
Biological Conservation,143(5):1278?1286.R.
Stafford, A.G. Hart, L. Collins, C.L.
Kirkhope, R.L.Williams, S.G. Rees, J.R. Lloyd, and A.E.
Goode-nough.
2010.
Eu-Social Science: The Role of Inter-net Social Networks in the Collection of Bee Biodi-versity Data.
PloS one, 5(12):e14381.K.
van Deemter and J. Odijk.
1997.
Context model-ing and the generation of spoken discourse.
SpeechCommunication, 21(1-2):101?121.174
