Proceedings of the 51st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics, pages 567?571,Sofia, Bulgaria, August 4-9 2013. c?2013 Association for Computational LinguisticsSequential Summarization: A New Application for Timely UpdatedTwitter Trending TopicsDehong Gao, Wenjie Li, Renxian ZhangDepartment of Computing, the Hong Kong Polytechnic University, Hong Kong{csdgao, cswjli, csrzhang}@comp.polyu.edu.hkAbstractThe growth of the Web 2.0 technologies hasled to an explosion of social networkingmedia sites.
Among them, Twitter is the mostpopular service by far due to its ease for real-time sharing of information.
It collectsmillions of tweets per day and monitors whatpeople are talking about in the trending topicsupdated timely.
Then the question is howusers can understand a topic in a short timewhen they are frustrated with theoverwhelming and unorganized tweets.
Inthis paper, this problem is approached bysequential summarization which aims toproduce a sequential summary, i.e., a seriesof chronologically ordered short sub-summaries that collectively provide a fullstory about topic development.
Both thenumber and the content of sub-summaries areautomatically identified by the proposedstream-based and semantic-based approaches.These approaches are evaluated in terms ofsequence coverage, sequence novelty andsequence correlation and the effectiveness oftheir combination is demonstrated.1 Introduction and BackgroundTwitter, as a popular micro-blogging service,collects millions of real-time short text messages(known as tweets) every second.
It acts as notonly a public platform for posting trifles aboutusers?
daily lives, but also a public reporter forreal-time news.
Twitter has shown its powerfulability in information delivery in many events,like the wildfires in San Diego and theearthquake in Japan.
Nevertheless, the side effectis individual users usually sink deep undermillions of flooding-in tweets.
To alleviate thisproblem, the applications like whatthetrend 1have evolved from Twitter to provide servicesthat encourage users to edit explanatory tweetsabout a trending topic, which can be regarded astopic summaries.
It is to some extent a good wayto help users understand trending topics.1 whatthetrend.comThere is also pioneering research in automaticTwitter trending topic summarization.
(O'Connoret al, 2010) explained Twitter trending topics byproviding a list of significant terms.
Users couldutilize these terms to drill down to the tweetswhich are related to the trending topics.
(Sharifiet al, 2010) attempted to provide a one-linesummary for each trending topic using phrasereinforcement ranking.
The relevance modelemployed by (Harabagiu and Hickl, 2011)generated summaries in larger size, i.e., 250-word summaries, by synthesizing multiple highrank tweets.
(Duan et al, 2012) incorporate theuser influence and content quality information intimeline tweet summarization and employreinforcement graph to generate summaries fortrending topics.Twitter summarization is an emergingresearch area.
Current approaches still followedthe traditional summarization route and mainlyfocused on mining tweets of both significanceand representativeness.
Though, the summariesgenerated in such a way can sketch the mostimportant aspects of the topic, they are incapableof providing full descriptions of the changes ofthe focus of a topic, and the temporal informationor freshness of the tweets, especially for thosenewsworthy trending topics, like earthquake andsports meeting.
As the main informationproducer in Twitter, the massive crowd keepsclose pace with the development of trendingtopics and provide the timely updatedinformation.
The information dynamics andtimeliness is an important consideration forTwitter summarization.
That is why we proposesequential summarization in this work, whichaims to produce sequential summaries to capturethe temporal changes of mass focus.Our work resembles update summarizationpromoted by TAC 2  which required creatingsummaries with new information assuming thereader has already read some previousdocuments under the same topic.
Given twochronologically ordered documents sets about atopic, the systems were asked to generate two2 www.nist.gov/tac567summaries, and the second one should inform theuser of new information only.
In order to achievethis goal, existing approaches mainly emphasizedthe novelty of the subsequent summary (Li andCroft, 2006; Varma et al, 2009; Steinberger andJezek, 2009).
Different from updatesummarization, we focus more on the temporalchange of trending topics.
In particular, we needto automatically detect the ?update points?among a myriad of related tweets.It is the goal of this paper to set up a newpractical summarization application tailored fortimely updated Twitter messages.
With the aimof providing a full description of the focuschanges and the records of the timeline of atrending topic, the systems are expected todiscover the chronologically ordered sets ofinformation by themselves and they are free togenerate any number of update summariesaccording to the actual situations instead of afixed number of summaries as specified inDUC/TAC.
Our main contributions includenovel approaches to sequential summarizationand corresponding evaluation criteria for thisnew application.
All of them will be detailed inthe following sections.2 Sequential SummarizationSequential summarization proposed here aims togenerate a series of chronologically ordered sub-summaries for a given Twitter trending topic.Each sub-summary is supposed to represent onemain subtopic or one main aspect of the topic,while a sequential summary, made up by the sub-summaries, should retain the order theinformation is delivered to the public.
In such away, the sequential summary is able to provide ageneral picture of the entire topic development.2.1 Subtopic SegmentationOne of the keys to sequential summarization issubtopic segmentation.
How many subtopicshave attracted the public attention, what are they,and how are they developed?
It is important toprovide the valuable and organized materials formore fine-grained summarization approaches.We proposed the following two approaches toautomatically detect and chronologically orderthe subtopics.2.1.1 Stream-based Subtopic Detection andOrderingTypically when a subtopic is popular enough, itwill create a certain level of surge in the tweetstream.
In other words, every surge in the tweetstream can be regarded as an indicator of theappearance of a subtopic that is worthy of beingsummarized.
Our early investigation providesevidence to support this assumption.
Byexamining the correlations between tweet contentchanges and volume changes in randomlyselected topics, we have observed that thechanges in tweet volume can really provide theclues of topic development or changes of crowdfocus.The stream-based subtopic detection approachemploys the offline peak area detection (Opad)algorithm (Shamma et al, 2010) to locate suchsurges by tracing tweet volume changes.
Itregards the collection of tweets at each suchsurge time range as a new subtopic.Offline Peak Area Detection (Opad) Algorithm1: Input: TS (tweets stream, each twi with timestamp ti);peak interval window ??
(in hour), and timestep?
(?
?
??
);2: Output: Peak Areas PA.3: Initial: two time slots: ??
= ?
= ?0 + ??
;Tweet numbers: ??
= ?
= ?????(?
)4: while (??
= ?
+ ?)
< ??
?15:      update ??
= ??
+ ??
and ??
= ?????(??
)6:      if (??
< ?
And up-hilling)7: output one peak area ??
?8: state of down-hilling9:      else10: update ?
= ??
and ?
=  ?
?11: state of up-hilling12:13: function ?????(?
)14: Count tweets in time interval TThe subtopics detected by the Opad algorithmare naturally ordered in the timeline.2.1.2 Semantic-based Subtopic Detection andOrderingBasically the stream-based approach monitorsthe changes of the level of user attention.
It iseasy to implement and intuitively works, but itfails to handle the cases where the posts aboutthe same subtopic are received at different timeranges due to the difference of geographical andtime zones.
This may make some subtopicsscattered into several time slots (peak areas) orone peak area mixed with more than onesubtopic.In order to sequentially segment the subtopicsfrom the semantic aspect, the semantic-basedsubtopic detection approach breaks the timeorder of tweet stream, and regards each tweet asan individual short document.
It takes advantageof Dynamic Topic Modeling (David and Michael,2006) to explore the tweet content.568DTM in nature is a clustering approach whichcan dynamically generate the subtopicunderlying the topic.
Any clustering approachrequires a pre-specified cluster number.
To avoidtuning the cluster number experimentally, thesubtopic number required by the semantic-basedapproach is either calculated according toheuristics or determined by the number of thepeak areas detected from the stream-basedapproach in this work.Unlike the stream-based approach, thesubtopics formed by DTM are the sets ofdistributions of subtopic and word probabilities.They are time independent.
Thus, the temporalorder among these subtopics is not obvious andneeds to be discovered.
We use the probabilisticrelationships between tweets and topics learnedfrom DTM to assign each tweet to a subtopic thatit most likely belongs to.
Then the subtopics areordered temporally according to the mean valuesof their tweets?
timestamps.2.2 Sequential Summary GenerationOnce the subtopics are detected and ordered, thetweets belonging to each subtopic are ranked andthe most significant one is extracted to generatethe sub-summary regarding that subtopic.
Twodifferent ranking strategies are adopted toconform to two different subtopic detectionmechanisms.For a tweet in a peak area, the linearcombination of two measures is considered toevaluate its significance to be a sub-summary: (1)subtopic representativeness measured by thecosine similarity between the tweet and thecentroid of all the tweets in the same peak area;(2) crowding endorsement measured by the timesthat the tweet is re-tweeted normalized by thetotal number of re-tweeting.
With the DTMmodel, the significance of the tweets is evaluateddirectly by word distribution per subtopic.MMR (Carbonell and Goldstein, 1998) is usedto reduce redundancy in sub-summary generation.3 Experiments and EvaluationsThe experiments are conducted on the 24 Twittertrending topics collected using Twitter APIs 3 .The statistics are shown in Table 1.Due to the shortage of gold-standardsequential summaries, we invite two annotatorsto read the chronologically ordered tweets, andwrite a series of sub-summaries for each topic3https://dev.twitter.com/independently.
Each sub-summary is up to 140characters in length to comply with the limit oftweet, but the annotators are free to choose thenumber of sub-summaries.
It ends up with 6.3and 4.8 sub-summaries on average in asequential summary written by the twoannotators respectively.
These two sets ofsequential summaries are regarded as referencesummaries to evaluate system-generatedsummaries from the following three aspects.Category #TTTrending TopicExamplesTweetsNumberNews 6Minsk, LibyaRelease25145Sports 6#bbcf1,Lakers/Heat17204Technology 5 Google Fiber 13281Science 2 AH1N1, Richter 10935Entertainment 2 Midnight Club, 6573Meme 2#ilovemyfans,Night Angels14595Lifestyle 1 Goose Island 6230Total 24 ------------ 93963Table 1.
Data Set?
Sequence CoverageSequence coverage measures the N-gram matchbetween system-generated summaries andhuman-written summaries (stopword removedfirst).
Considering temporal information is animportant factor in sequential summaries, wepropose the position-aware coverage measure byaccommodating the position information inmatching.
Let S={s1, s2, ?, sk} denote asequential summary and si the ith sub-summary,N-gram coverage is defined as:????????=1|???|??
?
??????????(?-????)?-???????,???????????
?
?
?
?????(?-????)?-??????????????????
?where,  ???
= |?
?
?| + 1, i and j denote the serialnumbers of the sub-summaries in the system-generated summary ???
and the human-writtensummary ???
, respectively.
?
serves as acoefficient to discount long-distance matchedsub-summaries.
We evaluate unigram, bigram,and skipped bigram matches.
Like in ROUGE(Lin, 2004), the skip distance is up to four words.?
Sequence NoveltySequence novelty evaluates the average noveltyof two successive sub-summaries.
Informationcontent (IC) has been used to measure thenovelty of update summaries by (Aggarwal et al,2009).
In this paper, the novelty of a system-569generated sequential summary is defined as theaverage of IC increments of two adjacent sub-summaries,???????
=1|?| ?
1?(????
?
???
?, ??
?1)?>1where |?| is the number of sub-summaries in thesequential summary.
????
= ?
???????
.
???
?, ??
?1 =?
??????????
?1  is the overlapped information in thetwo adjacent sub-summaries.
???
= ????
??????????
(?, ???)
where w is a word, ????
is theinverse tweet frequency of w, and ???
is all thetweets in the trending topic.
The relevancefunction is introduced to ensure that theinformation brought by new sub-summaries isnot only novel but also related to the topic.?
Sequence CorrelationSequence correlation evaluates the sequentialmatching degree between system-generated andhuman-written summaries.
In statistics,Kendall?s tau coefficient is often used to measurethe association between two sequences (Lapata,2006).
The basic idea is to count the concordantand discordant pairs which contain the sameelements in two sequences.
Borrowing this idea,for each sub-summary in a human-generatedsummary, we find its most matched sub-summary (judged by the cosine similaritymeasure) in the corresponding system-generatedsummary and then define the correlationaccording to the concordance between the twomatched sub-summary sequences.???????????=2(|#??????????????
?| ?
|#???????????????|)?(?
?
1)where n is the number of human-written sub-summaries.Tables 2 and 3 below present the evaluationresults.
For the stream-based approach, we set?t=3 hours experimentally.
For the semantic-based approach, we compare three differentapproaches to defining the sub-topic number K:(1) Semantic-based 1: Following the approachproposed in (Li et al, 2007), we first derive thematrix of tweet cosine similarity.
Given the 1-norm of eigenvalues  ??????
(?
= 1, 2, ?
, ?)
of thesimilarity matrix and the ratios ??
= ?????
?/?2 ,the subtopic number ?
= ?
+ 1  if ??
?
?
?+1 > ?(?
= 0.4 ).
(2) Semantic-based 2: Using the ruleof thumb in (Wan and Yang, 2008), ?
= ??
,where n is the tweet number.
(3) Combined: K isdefined as the number of the peak areas detectedfrom the Opad algorithm, meanwhile we use thetweets within peak areas as the tweets of DTM.This is our new idea.The experiments confirm the superiority of thesemantic-based approach over the stream-basedapproach in summary content coverage andnovelty evaluations, showing that the former isbetter at subtopic content modeling.
The sub-summaries generated by the stream-basedapproach have comparative sequence (i.e., order)correlation with the human summaries.Combining the advantages the two approachesleads to the best overall results.Coverage Unigram  BigramSkippedBigramStream-based(?t=3)0.3022 0.1567 0.1523Semantic-based1(?=0.5)0.3507 0.1684 0.1866Semantic-based 2 0.3112 0.1348 0.1267Combined(?t=3) 0.3532 0.1699 0.1791Table 2.
N-Gram Coverage EvaluationApproaches Novelty CorrelationStream-based (?t=3) 0.3798 0.3330Semantic-based 1 (?=0.4) 0.7163 0.3746Semantic-based 2 0.7017 0.3295Combined (?t=3) 0.7793 0.3986Table 3.
Novelty and Correlation Evaluation4 Concluding RemarksWe start a new application for Twitter trendingtopics, i.e., sequential summarization, to revealthe developing scenario of the trending topicswhile retaining the order of informationpresentation.
We develop several solutions toautomatically detect, segment and ordersubtopics temporally, and extract the mostsignificant tweets into the sub-summaries tocompose sequential summaries.
Empirically, thecombination of the stream-based approach andthe semantic-based approach leads to sequentialsummaries with high coverage, low redundancy,and good order.AcknowledgmentsThe work described in this paper is supported bya Hong Kong RGC project (PolyU No.
5202/12E)and a National Nature Science Foundation ofChina (NSFC No.
61272291).ReferencesAggarwal Gaurav, Sumbaly Roshan and Sinha Shakti.2009.
Update Summarization.
Stanford: CS224NFinal Projects.570Blei M. David and Jordan I. Michael.
2006.
Dynamictopic models.
In Proceedings of the 23rdinternational conference on Machine learning, 113-120.
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.Carbonell Jaime and Goldstein Jade.
1998.
The use ofMMR, diversity based reranking for reorderingdocuments and producing summaries.
InProceedings of the 21st Annual InternationalConference on Research and Development inInformation Retrieval, 335-336.
Melbourne,Australia.Duan Yajuan, Chen Zhimin, Wei Furu, Zhou Mingand Heung-Yeung Shum.
2012.
Twitter TopicSummarization by Ranking Tweets using SocialInfluence and Content Quality.
In Proceedings ofthe 24th International Conference on ComputationalLinguistics, 763-780.
Mumbai, India.Harabagiu Sanda and Hickl Andrew.
2011.
RelevanceModeling for Microblog Summarization.
InProceedings of 5th International AAAI Conferenceon Weblogs and Social Media.
Barcelona, Spain.Lapata Mirella.
2006.
Automatic evaluation ofinformation ordering: Kendall?s tau.
ComputationalLinguistics, 32(4):1-14.Li Wenyuan, Ng Wee-Keong, Liu Ying and OngKok-Leong.
2007.
Enhancing the Effectiveness ofClustering with Spectra Analysis.
IEEETransactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering,19(7):887-902.Li Xiaoyan and Croft W. Bruce.
2006.
Improvingnovelty detection for general topics using sentencelevel information patterns.
In Proceedings of the15th ACM International Conference on Informationand Knowledge Management, 238-247.
New York,USA.Lin Chin-Yew.
2004.
ROUGE: a Package forAutomatic Evaluation of Summaries.
InProceedings of the ACL Workshop on TextSummarization Branches Out, 74-81.
Barcelona,Spain.Liu Fei, Liu Yang and Weng Fuliang.
2011.
Why is?SXSW ?
trending?
Exploring Multiple TextSources for Twitter Topic Summarization.
InProceedings of the ACL Workshop on Language inSocial Media, 66-75.
Portland, Oregon.O'Connor Brendan, Krieger Michel and Ahn David.2010.
TweetMotif: Exploratory Search and TopicSummarization for Twitter.
In Proceedings of the4th International AAAI Conference on Weblogsand Social Media, 384-385.
Atlanta, Georgia.Shamma A. David, Kennedy Lyndon and Churchill F.Elizabeth.
2010.
Tweetgeist: Can the TwitterTimeline Reveal the Structure of Broadcast Events?In Proceedings of the 2010 ACM Conference onComputer Supported Cooperative Work, 589-593.Savannah, Georgia, USA.Sharifi Beaux, Hutton Mark-Anthony and Kalita Jugal.2010.
Summarizing Microblogs Automatically.
InHuman Language Technologies: the 2010 AnnualConference of the North American Chapter of theAssociation for Computational Linguistics, 685-688.
Los Angeles, California.Steinberger Josef and Jezek Karel.
2009.
Updatesummarization based on novel topic distribution.
InProceedings of the 9th ACM Symposium onDocument Engineering, 205-213.
Munich,Germany.Varma Vasudeva, Bharat Vijay, Kovelamudi Sudheer,Praveen Bysani, Kumar K. N, Kranthi Reddy,Karuna Kumar and Nitin Maganti.
2009.
IIITHyderabad at TAC 2009.
In Proceedings of the2009 Text Analysis Conference.
GaithsBurg,Maryland.Wan Xiaojun and Yang Jianjun.
2008.
Multi-document summarization using cluster-based linkanalysis.
In Proceedings of the 31st AnnualInternational Conference on Research andDevelopment in Information Retrieval, 299-306.Singapore, Singapore.571
