Proceedings of the 51st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics, pages 631?640,Sofia, Bulgaria, August 4-9 2013. c?2013 Association for Computational LinguisticsBootstrapping Entity Translation on Weakly Comparable CorporaTaesung Lee and Seung-won HwangDepartment of Computer Science and EngineeringPohang University of Science and Technology (POSTECH)Pohang, Republic of Korea{elca4u, swhwang}@postech.eduAbstractThis paper studies the problem of miningnamed entity translations from compara-ble corpora with some ?asymmetry?.
Un-like the previous approaches relying on the?symmetry?
found in parallel corpora, theproposed method is tolerant to asymme-try often found in comparable corpora, bydistinguishing different semantics of rela-tions of entity pairs to selectively prop-agate seed entity translations on weaklycomparable corpora.
Our experimentalresults on English-Chinese corpora showthat our selective propagation approachoutperforms the previous approaches innamed entity translation in terms of themean reciprocal rank by up to 0.16 for or-ganization names, and 0.14 in a low com-parability case.1 IntroductionIdentifying and understanding entities is a cru-cial step in understanding text.
This task ismore challenging in the presence of multilingualtext, because translating named entities (NEs),such as persons, locations, or organizations, isa non-trivial task.
Early research on NE trans-lation used phonetic similarities, for example,to mine the translation ?Mandelson????????
[ManDeErSen] with similar sounds.
However,not all NE translations are based on translitera-tions, as shown in Table 1?Some translations,especially the names of most organizations, arebased on semantic equivalences.
Furthermore,names can be abbreviated in one or both lan-guages, e.g., the ?World Trade Organization?
(??????)
can be called the ?WTO?
(????).
Another challenging example is that, a trans-lation can be arbitrary, e.g., ?Jackie Chan?
?
????
[ChengLong].
There are many approachesEnglish ChineseWorld TradeOrganization??????
[ShiJieMaoYiZuZhi]WTO ????
[ShiMaoZuZhi]Jackie Chan ??
[ChengLong]Table 1: Examples of non-phonetic translations.that deal with some of these challenges (Lam etal., 2007; Yang et al, 2009), e.g., by combin-ing phonetic similarity and a dictionary.
How-ever, arbitrary translations still cannot be handledby examining the NE pair itself.
Corpus-based ap-proaches (Kupiec, 1993; Feng, 2004), by miningexternal signals from a large corpus, such as par-enthetical translation ???
(Jackie Chan)?, com-plement the problem of transliteration-based ap-proaches, but the coverage of this approach is lim-ited to popular entities with such evidence.The most effective known approach to NEtranslation has been a holistic framework (You etal., 2010; Kim et al, 2011; You et al, 2012) com-bining transliteration- and corpus-based methods.In these approaches, both 1) arbitrary translationsand 2) lesser-known entities can be handled, bypropagating the translation scores of known enti-ties to lesser-known entities if they co-occur fre-quently in both corpora.
For example, a lesser-known entity Tom Watson can be translated ifMandelson and Tom Watson co-occur frequentlyin an English corpus, and their Chinese transla-tions also co-occur frequently in a Chinese corpus,i.e., if the co-occurrences in the two corpora are?symmetric?.A research question we ask in this paper is:What if comparable corpora are not comparableenough to support this symmetry assumption?
Wefound that this is indeed the case.
For exam-ple, even English and Chinese news from thesame publisher may have different focus?
the Chi-nese version focuses more on Chinese Olympic631teams and Chinese local news.
In the presence ofsuch asymmetry, all previous approaches, buildingupon symmetry, quickly deteriorate by propagat-ing false positives.
For example, co-occurrence ofMandelson and Tom Watson may not appear in aChinese corpus, which may lead to the translationof Tom Watson into another Chinese entity Gor-don Brown which happens to co-occur with theChinese translation of Mandelson.Our key contribution is to avoid such falsepropagation, by discerning the semantics of rela-tions.
For example, relations between Mandelsonand Tom Watson, should be semantically differ-ent from Chinese relations between ???????
(Gordon Brown) and ??????
(Mandelson).
Anaive approach would be finding documents witha similar topic such as politics, and scientific dis-covery, and allowing propagation only when thetopic agrees.
However, we found that a topic is aunit that is too coarse for this task because mostarticles on Mandelson will invariably fall into thesame topic1.
In clear contrast, we selectively prop-agate seed translations, only when the relations inthe two corpora share the same semantics.This selective propagation can be especially ef-fective for translating challenging types of enti-ties such as organizations including theWTO usedwith and without abbreviation in both languages.Applying a holistic approach (You et al, 2012)on organizations leads to poor results, 0.06 interms of the F1-score.
A naive approach to in-crease the precision would be to consider multi-type co-occurrences, hoping that highly precisetranslations of some type, e.g., persons with anF1-score of 0.69 (You et al, 2012), can be prop-agated to boost the precision on organizations.In our experiments, this naive multi-type prop-agation still leads to an unsatisfactory F1-scoreof 0.12.
Such a low score can be explained bythe following example.
When translating ?WTO?using the co-occurrence with ?Mandelson?, otherco-occurrences such as (London, Mandelson) and(EU, Mandelson) produce a lot of noise becausethe right translation of WTO does not share muchphonetic/semantic similarity.
Our understandingof relation semantics, can distinguish ?Mandelsonwas born in London?
from ?Mandelson visited theWTO?, to stop false propagations, which gener-ates an F1-score 0.25 higher than the existing ap-1The MRR for organization names achieved by a topicmodel-based approach was 0.15 lower than our best.proaches.More formally, we enable selective propagationof seed translations on weakly comparable cor-pora, by 1) clarifying the detailed meaning of rela-tional information of co-occurring entities, and 2)identifying the contexts of the relational informa-tion using statement-level context comparison.
Inother words, we propagate the translation score ofa known translation pair to a neighbor pair if thesemantics of their relations in English and Chinesecorpora are equivalent to accurately propagate thescores.
For example, if we know ?Russia???????
(1) and join???
(2), then from a pair of state-ments ?Russia(1) joins(2) theWTO(3)?
and ????(1)??
(2) ????
(3)?, we can propagate the trans-lation score of (Russia, ???
)(1) to (WTO, ????)(3).
However, we do not exploit a pair ofstatements ?Russia joined the WTO?
and ??????(2?)
????
because ??(2?)
does not meanjoin(2).
Furthermore, we mine a similar English-Chinese document pair that can be found by com-paring the entity relationships, such as ?Mandel-son visited Moscow?
and ?Mandelson met AlexeiKudrin?, within the English document and theChinese document to leverage similar contexts toassure that we use symmetric parts.For this goal, we first extract relations amongentities in documents, such as visit and join, andmine semantically equivalent relations across thelanguages, e.g., English and Chinese, such asjoin???.
Once these relation translations aremined, similar document pairs can be identifiedby comparing each constituent relationship amongentities using their relations.
Knowing documentsimilarity improves NE translation, and improvedNE translation can boost the accuracy of documentand relationship similarity.
This iterative processcan continue until convergence.To the best of our knowledge, our approach isthe first to translate a broad range of multilin-gual relations and exploit them to enhance NEtranslation.
In particular, our approach leveragessemantically similar document pairs to excludeincomparable parts that appear in one languageonly.
Our method outperforms the previous ap-proaches in translating NE up to 0.16 in terms ofthe mean reciprocal rank (MRR) for organizationnames.
Moreover, our method shows robustness,with 0.14 higher MRR than seed translations, onless comparable corpora.6322 Related WorkThis work is related to two research streams: NEtranslation and semantically equivalent relationmining.Entity translationExisting approaches on NE translation can be cat-egorized into 1) transliteration-based, 2) corpus-based, and 3) hybrid approaches.Transliteration-based approaches (Wan and Ver-spoor, 1998; Knight and Graehl, 1998) are thefoundations of many decent methods, but theyalone suffer from ambiguity (e.g., ???
and???
have the same sounds) and cannot han-dle non-transliterated cases such as ?Jackie Chan(??[ChengLong])?.
Some methods (Lam et al,2007; Yang et al, 2009) rely on meanings of con-stituent letters or words to handle organizationname translation such as ?Bank of China (????
)?, whose translation is derived from ?China(??
)?, and ?a bank (??)?.
However, manynames often originate from abbreviation (such as?WTO?
); hence we cannot always leverage mean-ings.Corpus-based approaches (Kupiec, 1993; Lin etal., 2008; Jiang et al, 2009) exploit high-qualitybilingual evidence such as parenthetical transla-tion, e.g., ???
(Jackie Chan)?, (Lin et al, 2008),semi-structural patterns (Jiang et al, 2009), andparallel corpus (Kupiec, 1993).
However, the cov-erage of the corpus-based approaches is limited topopular entities with such bilingual evidences.
Onthe other hand, our method can cover entities withmonolingual occurrences in corpora, which signif-icantly improves the coverage.The most effective known approach is a holis-tic framework that combines those two ap-proaches (You et al, 2012; You et al, 2010; Kimet al, 2011).
You et al (2010; 2012) leverage twographs of entities in each language, that are gen-erated from a pair of corpora, with edge weightsquantified as the strength of the relatedness of en-tities.
Then, two graphs are iteratively aligned us-ing the common neighbors of two entities.
Kim etal.
(2011) build such graphs using the context sim-ilarity, measured with a bag of words approach, ofentities in news corpora to translate NEs.
How-ever, these approaches assume the symmetry of thetwo graphs.
This assumption holds if two corporaare parallel, but such resources are scarce.
But ourapproach exploits comparable parts from corpora.00.10.20.30 10 20 30 40 50NormalizedOccurrenceWeeksWTO???
?Figure 1: Dissimilarity of temporal distributionsof ?WTO?
in English and Chinese corpora.Other interesting approaches such as (Klemen-tiev and Roth, 2006; Kim et al, 2012) rely on tem-poral distributions of entities.
That is, two entitiesare considered to be similar if the two entities indifferent languages have similar occurrence distri-butions over time.
However, the effectiveness ofthis feature also depends on the comparability ofentity occurrences in time-stamped corpora, whichmay not hold as shown in Figure 1.
In clear con-trast, our method can find and compare articles,on different dates, describing the same NE.
More-over, our method does not require time stamps.Semantically similar relation miningRecently, similar relation mining in one languagehas been studied actively as a key part of automaticknowledge base construction.
In automaticallyconstructed knowledge bases, finding semanti-cally similar relations can improve understandingof the Web describing content with many differentexpressions.
As such an effort, PATTY (Nakas-hole et al, 2012) finds similar relations with al-most the same support sets?the sets of NE pairsthat co-occur with the relations.
However, becauseof the regional locality of information, bilingualcorpora contain many NE pairs that appear in onlyone of the support sets of the semantically identi-cal relations.
NELL (Mohamed et al, 2011) findsrelated relations using seed pairs of one given re-lation; then, using K-means clustering, it finds re-lations that are semantically similar to the givenrelation.
Unfortunately, this method requires thatwe set K manually, and extract relations for eachgiven relation.
Therefore, this is unsuitable to sup-port general relations.There are only few works on translating rela-tions or obtaining multi-lingual similar relations.Schone et al (2011) try to find relation patterns633in multiple languages for given seed pairs of a re-lation.
Because this approach finds seed pairs inWikipedia infoboxes, the number of retrievable re-lations is restricted to five.
Kim et al (2010) seekmore diverse types of relations, but it requires par-allel corpora, which are scarce.3 Framework OverviewIn this section, we provide an overview of ourframework for translating NEs, using news cor-pora in English and Chinese as a running example.Because such corpora contain asymmetric parts,the goal of our framework is to overcome asym-metry by distinguishing the semantics of relations,and leveraging document context defined by therelations of entities.
(e) Iteration on ??
?????
?
???
(Section 4.5)(c) RelationTranslation ?
?
(Section 4.3)(d) Statement-LevelDocument ContextComparison ??
(Section 4.4)(b) Seed EntityTranslation ?
??
(Section 4.2)Iterative processEnglishCorpusChineseCorpus(a) Statement Extraction(Section 4.1)Figure 2: Framework overview.For this purpose, we build a mutual bootstrap-ping framework (Figure 2), between entity trans-lation and relation translation using extracted re-lationships of entities (Figure 2 (a), Section 4.1).More formally, we use the following process:1.
Base condition (Figure 2 (a), Section 4.2): Ini-tializing T (1)N (eE , eC), a seed entity translationscore, where eE is an English entity, and eC isa Chinese entity.
T (1)N can be initialized by pho-netic similarity or other NE translation methods.2.
Iteration: Obtaining T t+1N using T tN .1) Using T tN , we obtain a set of relationtranslations with a semantic similarity score,T tR(rE , rC), for an English relation rE and aChinese relation rC (Figure 2 (b), Section 4.3)(e.g., rE =visit and rC =??
).2) Using T tN and T tR, we identify a set of seman-tically similar document pairs that describe thesame event with a similarity score T tD(dE , dC)where dE is an English document and dC is aChinese document (Figure 2 (c), Section 4.4).3) Using T tN , T tR and T tD, we compute T t+1N , animproved entity translation score (Figure 2 (d),Section 4.5).Each sub-goal reinforces the result of others inthe (t + 1)-th iteration, and by iteratively runningthem, we can improve the quality of translations.Note that, hereinafter, we omit (t) for readabilitywhen there is no ambiguity.4 MethodsIn this section, we describe our method in de-tail.
First, we explain how we extract statements,which are units of relational information, fromdocuments in Section 4.1, and how we obtain seedname translations in Section 4.2.
Next, we presentour method for discovering relation translationsacross languages in Section 4.3.
In Section 4.4, weuse the name translations and the relation trans-lations to compare document contexts which canboost the precision of NE translation.
In Sec-tion 4.5, we describe how we use the resourcesobtained so far to improve NE translation.4.1 Statement ExtractionWe extract relational statements, which we exploitto propagate translation scores, from an Englishnews corpus and a Chinese news corpus.
A rela-tional statement, or simply a statement is a triple(x, r, y), representing a relationship between twonames, x and y.
For example, from ?Mandel-son recently visited Moscow,?
we obtain this state-ment: (Mandelson, visit, Moscow).
We follow astandard procedure to extract statements, as sim-ilarly adopted by Nakashole et al (2012), usingStanford CoreNLP (Klein and Manning, 2003) tolemmatize and parse sentences.
Here, we referreaders to existing work for further details becausethis is not our key contribution.4.2 Seed Entity TranslationWe need a few seed translation pairs to initi-ate the framework.
We build a seed transla-tion score T (1)N (eE , eC) indicating the similar-ity of an English entity eE and a Chinese en-tity eC using an existing method.
For exam-ple, most methods would give high value for634T (1)N (Mandelson,????
[ManDeErSen]).
In thiswork, we adopted (You et al, 2012) with (Lamet al, 2007) as a base translation matrix to buildthe seed translation function.
We also use a dictio-nary to obtain non-NE translations such as ?gov-ernment?.
We use an English-Chinese generalword dictionary containing approximately 80,000English-Chinese translation word pairs that wasalso used by Kim et al (2011) to measure the sim-ilarity of context words of entities.4.3 Relation TranslationWe need to identify relations that have the equiv-alent semantics across languages, (e.g., visit???
), to enable selective propagation of translationscores.
Formally, our goal is to measure a pair-wise relation translation score TR(rE , rC) for anEnglish relation rE ?
RE and a Chinese relationrC ?
RC whereRE is a set of all English relationsand RC is a set of all Chinese relations.We first explain a basic feature to measure thesimilarity of two relations, its limitations, and howwe address the problems.
A basic clue is that re-lations of the same meaning are likely to be men-tioned with the same entity pairs.
For example,if we have (Mandelson, visit, Moscow) as well as(Mandelson, head to, Moscow) in the corpus, thisis a positive signal that the two relations may sharethe same meaning.
Such NE pairs are called sup-port pairs of the two relations.We formally define this clue for relations in thesame language, and then describe that in the bilin-gual setting.
A support intersection Hm(ri, rj), aset of support pairs, for monolingual relations riand rj is defined asHm(ri, rj) = H(ri) ?H(rj) (1)where H(r) is the support set of a relation r de-fined as H(r) = {(x, y)|(x, r, y) ?
S}, and S iseither SE , a set of all English statements, or SC , aset of all Chinese statements that we extracted inSection 4.1.Likewise, we can define a support intersectionfor relations in the different languages using thetranslation score TN (eE , eC).
For an English rela-tion rE and a Chinese relation rC ,Hb(rE , rC) ={(xE , xC , yE , yC)|TN (xE , xC) ?
?and TN (yE , yC) ?
?for (xE , rE , yE) ?
SEand (xC , rC , yC) ?
SC}(2)where ?
= 0.6 is a harsh threshold to exclude mostof the false translations by TN .Finally, we define a support intersection, a setof support pairs between two relations ri and rj ofany languages,H(ri, rj) =????
?Hb(ri, rj) if ri ?
RE and rj ?
RCHb(rj , ri) if rj ?
RE and ri ?
RCHm(ri, rj) otherwise(3)Intuitively, |H(ri, rj)| indicates the strength ofthe semantic similarity of two relations ri andrj of any languages.
However, as shown in Ta-ble 2, we cannot use this value directly to mea-sure the similarity because the support intersectionof semantically similar bilingual relations (e.g.,|H(head to,??
)| = 2) is generally very low,and normalization cannot remedy this problemas we can see from |H(visit,??
)| = 27 and|H(visit)| = 1617.Set CardinalityH(visit) 1617H(??)
2788H(visit,??)
27H(head to,??)
2Table 2: Evidence cardinality in the corpora.?
?visithead tocall ondenouncecriticizeblameaskrequest appeal tofly to82112 4Figure 3: Network of relations.
Edges indicatethat the relations have a non-empty support inter-section, and edge labels show the size of the inter-section.We found that the connectivity among similarrelations is more important than the strength ofthe similarity.
For example, as shown in Figure 3,visit is connected to most of the visit-relationssuch as head to, ??.
Although visit is con-nected to criticize, visit is not connected to othercriticize-relations such as denounce and blame,whereas criticize, denounce, and blame are inter-635?
?visithead tovisit-clusterdenouncecriticizeblame      criticize-clustercall on106fly to2call on askrequest appeal to request-clusterFigure 4: Relation clusters and a few individualrelations.
Edge labels show the size of the inter-section.connected.
To exploit this feature, we use a ran-dom walk-based graph clustering method.Formally, we use Markov clustering (Van Don-gen, 2000) on a graph G = (V,E) of relations,where V = RE ?
RC is a set of all English andChinese relations.
An edge (ri, rj) indicates thattwo relations in any languages are similar, and itsweight is quantified by a sigmoid function on alinear transformation of |H(ri, rj)| that was em-pirically found to produce good results.Each resultant cluster forms a set of bilingualsimilar relations, c = {rc1 , ..., rcM }, such as visit-cluster, which consists of visit, head to, and?
?in Figure 4.
However, this cluster may not containall similar relations.
A relation may have multi-ple meanings (e.g., call on) so it can be clusteredto another cluster, or a relation might not be clus-tered when its support set is too small (e.g., flyto).
For such relations, rather than assigning zerosimilarity to visit-relations, we compute a clustermembership function based on support pairs of thecluster members and the target relation, and thenformulate a pairwise relation translation score.Formally, we learn the membership functionof a relation r to a cluster c using support vec-tor regression (Joachims, 1999) with the follow-ing features based on the support set of cluster c,H(c) = ?r?c H(r), and the support intersectionof r and c, H(r, c) = ?r?
?c H(r, r?).?
f1(r, c) = |H(r, c)|/|H(r)|: This quantifies thedegree of inclusion, H(c) ?
H(r).?
f2(r, c) = |H(r, c)|/|H(c)|: This quantifies thedegree of inclusion, H(r) ?
H(c).?
f3(r, c) = |Hwithin(r, c)|/|Hwithin(c)|: This is avariation of f2 that considers only noun phrasepairs shared at least once by relations in c.?
f4(r, c) = |Hwithin(r, c)|/|Hshared(c)|: This is avariation of f2 that considers only noun phrasepairs shared at least once by any pair of relations.?
f5(r, c) = |{r?
?
c|H(r, r?)
> 0}|/|c|: Thisis the degree of connectivity to the cluster mem-bers.where Hwithin(r, c) = ?r?
?c H(r, c) ?
H(r, r?
),the intersection, considering translation, of H(r)and noun phrase pairs shared at once by rela-tions in c, Hwithin(c) = ?r?
?c H(r?, c ?
{r?
}),and Hshared(c) = ?r?
?RE?RC H(r?, c), the nounphrase pairs shared at once by any relations.
Theuse of Hwithin and Hshared is based on the obser-vation that a noun phrase pair that appear in onlyone relation tends to be an incorrectly chunked en-tity such as ?World Trade?
from the ?World TradeOrganization?.Based on this membership function S(r, c), wecompute pairwise relation similarity.
We considerthat two relations are similar if they have at leastone cluster that the both relations belong to, whichcan be measured with S(r, c).
More formally,pairwise similarity of relations ri and rj is definedasTR(ri, rj) = maxc?C S(ri, c) ?
S(rj , c) (4)where C is a set of all clusters.4.4 Statement-level Document ContextComparisonA brute-force statement matching approach oftenfails due to ambiguity created by ignoring con-text, and missing information in TN or TR.
There-fore, we detect similar document pairs to boostthe statement matching process.
Unlike the pre-vious approaches (e.g., bag-of-words), we focuson the relationships of entities within documentsusing the extracted statements.Formally, we compute the similarity of twostatements sE = (xE , rE , yE) and sC =(xC , rC , yC) in different languages as follows:TS(sE , sC) = TN (xE , xC)TR(rE , rC)TN (yE , yC)(5)With this definition, we can find similar statementsdescribed with different vocabularies in differentlanguages.To compare a document pair, we use the fol-lowing equation to measure the similarity of an636English document diE and a Chinese document djCbased on their statements SiE and SjC , respectively:TD(diE , djC) =?
(sE ,sC)?B TS(si,rE , sj,rC )|SiE |+ |SiE | ?
|B|(6)whereB ?
SiE?SjC is a greedy approximate solu-tion of maximum bipartite matching (West, 1999)on a bipartite graph GB = (VB = (SiE , SjC), EB)with edge weights that are defined by TS .
Themaximum bipartite matching finds a subset ofedges in SiE ?
SjC that maximize the sum of theselected edge weights and that do not share a nodeas their anchor point.4.5 Iteration on TNIn this section, we describe how we use the state-ment similarity function TS , and the documentsimilarity function TD to improve and derive thenext generation entity translation function T (t+1)N .We consider that a pair of an English entity eE anda Chinese entity eC are likely to indicate the samereal world entity if they have 1) semantically sim-ilar relations to the same entity 2) under the samecontext.
Formally, we define an increment func-tion as follows.
?TN (eE , eC)=?diE?djCTD(di, dj) max(sE ,sC)?B?TS(sE , sC)(7)whereB?
is a subset ofB ?
SiE?SjC such that theconnected statements mention eE and eC , andB isthe greedy approximate solution of maximum bi-partite matching for the set SiE of statements of diEand the set SjC of statements of djC .
In other words,B?
is a set of matching statement pairs mention-ing the translation target eE and eC in the docu-ment pair.
Then, we use the following equation toimprove the original entity translation function.T (t+1)N (eE , eC) = (1?
?
)?TN (eE , eC)?e?C?TN (eE , e?C)+ ?TN (eE , eC) (8)where ?
is a mixing parameter in [0, 1].
We set?
= 0.6 in our experiments.With this update, we obtain the improved NEtranslations considering the relations that an en-tity has to other entities under the same context toachieve higher precision.5 ExperimentsIn this section, we present experimental settingsand results of translating entity names using ourmethods compared with several baselines.5.1 Data and EvaluationWe processed news articles for an entire year in2008 by Xinhua news who publishes news inboth English and Chinese, which were also usedby Kim et al (2011) and Shao and Ng (2004).
TheEnglish corpus consists of 100,746 news articles,and the Chinese corpus consists of 88,031 newsarticles.
The news corpora are not parallel butcomparable corpora, with asymmetry of entitiesand relationship as the asymmetry in the numberof documents also suggest.
Examples of such lo-cality in Xinhua news include the more extensivecoverage of Chinese teams in the Olympics anddomestic sports in the Chinese news.
Our frame-work finds and leverages comparable parts fromthe corpora without document-content-external in-formation such as time stamps.
We also show that,under the decreasing comparability, our methodretains higher MRR than the baselines.We follow the evaluation procedures usedby You et al (2012) and Kim et al (2011) tofairly and precisely compare the effectiveness ofour methods with baselines.
To measure perfor-mance, we use mean reciprocal rank (MRR) toevaluate a translation function T :MRR(T ) = 1|Q|?
(u,v)?Q1rankT (u, v)(9)where Q is the set of gold English-Chinese trans-lation pairs (u, v) and rankT (u, v) is the rank ofT (u, v) in {T (u,w)|w is a Chinese entity}.
In ad-dition, we use precision, recall, and F1-score.As gold translation pairs, we use the evaluationdata used by You et al (2012) with additional la-bels, especially for organizations.
The labelingtask is done by randomly selecting English enti-ties and finding their Chinese translation from theChinese corpus.
We only use entities with trans-lations that appear in the Chinese corpus.
Wepresent the evaluation results for persons and or-ganizations to show the robustness of the meth-ods.
In total, we identified 490 English entities inthe English news with Chinese translations in theChinese news.
Among the 490 entities, 221 NEsare persons and 52 NEs are organizations.637Person OrganizationMRR P. R. F1 MRR P. R. F1T (2)N 0.80 0.81 0.79 0.80 0.53 0.56 0.52 0.54T (1)N 0.77 0.80 0.77 0.78 0.44 0.49 0.44 0.46TSPH+P 0.73 0.70 0.67 0.69 0.14 0.17 0.04 0.06TMPH+P 0.68 0.70 0.68 0.69 0.08 0.31 0.08 0.12THB 0.71 0.59 0.59 0.59 0.37 0.29 0.29 0.29TDict 0.09 1.00 0.09 0.17 0.17 1.00 0.17 0.30Table 3: Evaluation results of the methods.5.2 BaselinesWe compare our methods with the following base-lines.?
TSPH+P (You et al, 2012) is a holistic methodthat uses a transliteration method as basetranslations, and then reinforces them toachieve higher quality.
This method usesonly a single type of entities to propagate thetranslation scores.?
TMPH+P is the holistic method revised to usenaive multi-type propagation that uses multi-ple types of entities to reinforce the transla-tion scores.?
THB is a linear combination of transliterationand semantic translation methods (Lam et al,2007) tuned to achieve the highest MRR.?
TDict is a dictionary-only method.
This dic-tionary is used by both THB and TN .Only the translation pairs of scores above 0.35are used for TPH+P to maximize the F1-score tomeasure precision, recall and F1-score.
For ourmethod T (t)N , we use the result with (t) = 1,the seed translations, and (t) = 2, which meansthat only one pass of the whole framework is per-formed to improve the seed translation function.In addition, we use translation pairs with scoresabove 0.05 to measure precision, recall, and F1-score.
Note that these thresholds do not affectMRRs.5.3 NE Translation ResultsWe show the result of the quantitative evaluationin Table 3, where the highest values are boldfaced,except TDict which shows 1.00 precision becauseit is a manually created dictionary.
For both theperson and organization cases, our method T (2)Noutperforms the state-of-the-art methods in termsEnglishnameT (2)N T(1)N THBMandelson ????[ManDeErSen]????[ManDeErSen]????
[ManDeErSen]WTO ????[ShiMaoZuZhi]????[ShangHeZuZhi]????
[BaJieZuZhi]White House ??[BaiGong]??[JiaZhou]??
[JiaZhou]Microsoft ????[WeiRuanGongSi]?????[MeiGuoSiFaBu]????
[MiLuoNuoFu]Table 4: Example translations from the differentmethods.
Boldface indicates correct translations.0.40.60.8D0 D1 D2t=2t=1???
??
?Figure 6: MRR with decreasing comparability.of precision, recall, F1-score and MRR.
With onlyone iteration of selective propagation, the seedtranslation is improved to achieve the 0.09 higherMRR.The baselines show lower, but comparableMRRs and F1-scores for persons that mostly con-sist of transliterated cases.
However, not all trans-lations have phonetic similarity, especially orga-nization names, as the low F1-score of TSPH+P ,0.06, for organizations suggests.
The naive multi-type propagation TMPH+P shows decreased MRRfor both persons and organizations compared tothe single-type propagation TSPH+P , which showsa negative influence of diverse relation semanticsof entities of different types.
THB achieves a bet-ter MRR than TPH+P due to the semantic transla-tion of organization names.
However, despite theincreased recall of THB over that of TDict, the pre-cision of THB is unsatisfactory because THB mapsabbreviated names such as ?WTO?
with other NEs.On the other hand, our method achieves the high-est MRR and precision in both the person and or-ganization categories.As shown in Table 4, THB translates ?WTO?
in-accurately, linking it to an incorrect organization??????
(Palestine Liberation Organization).638The European Union (EU) Trade Commissioner (1) Peter Mandelson traveled to Moscow onThursday for talks on ?
Mandelson said it is a priority to see (2) Russia join the WTO, ???????
(1) ??????14???????
?, ?????????????
?,(2) ????????????????????
?, ?
(Peter Mandelson, traveled to, Moscow)(?????
?, ???
?, ???
)(Russia, join, WTO)(??
?, ?
?, ????
)1) 2)Figure 5: Example of similar document pairs.Moreover, the use of the corpora by T (1)N couldnot fix this problem, and it finds another organi-zation related to trade, ??????
(Shanghai Co-operation Organization).
In contrast, our selectivepropagation method T (2)N , which uses the wrongseed translation by T (1)N , ??????
(Shang-hai Cooperation Organization), successfully trans-lates the WTO using statements such as (Russia,join, WTO), and its corresponding Chinese state-ment (??
?, ?
?, ????).
Similarly, boththe baseline THB and the seed translation T (1)Nmatched Microsoft to incorrect Chinese entitiesthat are phonetically similar as indicated by theunderlined text.
In contrast, T (2)N finds the correcttranslation despite the phonetic dissimilarity.5.4 NE Translation Results with Low CorpusComparabilityWe tested the methods using less comparable datato evaluate the robustness with the following de-rived datasets:?
D0:All news articles are used.?
D1: January-December English and July-December Chinese articles are used.?
D2:April-September English and July-December Chinese articles are used.Figure 6 shows the MRR comparisons of ourmethod T (2)N and T (1)N on all test entities.
Be-cause the commonly appearing NEs are decreas-ing, the performance decline is inevitable.
How-ever, we can see that the MRR of the seed trans-lation method drops significantly on D1 and D2,whereas our method shows 0.14 higher MRR forboth cases.5.5 Similar DocumentsIn this section, we show an example of similardocuments in Figure 5.
Both articles describethe same event about the visit of Mandelson toMoscow for the discussion on the joining of Rus-sia to the WTO.
The extracted statements are theexact translations of each corresponding part as in-dicated by the arrows.
We stress this is an extremecase for illustration, where the two sentences arealmost an exact translation, except for a minorasymmetry involving the date (Thursday in En-glish, and 14th in Chinese).
In most similar doc-uments, the asymmetry is more significant.
Theseed translation score T 1N (WTO,????)
is notenough to match the entities.
However, the contextsimilarity, due to other similar statements such as(1), allows us to match (2).
This match helps trans-lation of ?WTO?
by inspecting the organizationthat Russia considers to join in both documents.6 ConclusionsThis paper proposed a bootstrapping approachfor entity translation using multilingual relationalclustering.
Further, the proposed method couldfinds similar document pairs by comparing state-ments to enable us to focus on comparable parts ofevidence.
We validated the quality of our approachusing real-life English and Chinese corpora, andits performance significantly exceeds that of pre-vious approaches.AcknowledgmentThis research was supported by the MKE (TheMinistry of Knowledge Economy), Korea and Mi-crosoft Research, under IT/SW Creative researchprogram supervised by the NIPA (National IT In-dustry Promotion Agency).
(NIPA-2012-H0503-12-1036).639ReferencesDonghui Feng.
2004.
A new approach for english-chinese named entity alignment.
In Proceedingsof the Conference on Empirical Methods in NaturalLanguage Processing EMNLP, pages 372?379.Long Jiang, Shiquan Yang, Ming Zhou, Xiaohua Liu,and Qingsheng Zhu.
2009.
Mining bilingual datafrom the web with adaptively learnt patterns.
InJoint Conference of the ACL and the IJCNLP, pages870?878, Stroudsburg, PA, USA.T.
Joachims.
1999.
Making large-scale SVM learningpractical.
In B. Scho?lkopf, C. Burges, and A. Smola,editors, Advances in Kernel Methods - Support Vec-tor Learning.
MIT Press, Cambridge, MA, USA.Seokhwan Kim, Minwoo Jeong, Jonghoon Lee, andGary Geunbae Lee.
2010.
A cross-lingual anno-tation projection approach for relation detection.
InCOLING, pages 564?571, Stroudsburg, PA, USA.Jinhan Kim, Long Jiang, Seung-won Hwang, Young-InSong, and Ming Zhou.
2011.
Mining entity trans-lations from comparable corpora: a holistic graphmapping approach.
In CIKM, pages 1295?1304,New York, NY, USA.Jinhan Kim, Seung won Hwang, Long Jiang, Young-In Song, and Ming Zhou.
2012.
Entity transla-tion mining from comparable corpora: Combininggraph mapping with corpus latent features.
IEEETransactions on Knowledge and Data Engineering,99(PrePrints).Dan Klein and Christopher D. Manning.
2003.
Ac-curate unlexicalized parsing.
In Proceedings of the41st Annual Meeting on Association for Computa-tional Linguistics - Volume 1, ACL ?03, pages 423?430, Stroudsburg, PA, USA.
Association for Com-putational Linguistics.Alexandre Klementiev and Dan Roth.
2006.
Namedentity transliteration and discovery from multilin-gual comparable corpora.
In Proceedings of themain conference on Human Language Technol-ogy Conference of the North American Chapter ofthe Association of Computational Linguistics, HLT-NAACL ?06, pages 82?88, Stroudsburg, PA, USA.Association for Computational Linguistics.Kevin Knight and Jonathan Graehl.
1998.
Machinetransliteration.
Comput.
Linguist., 24(4):599?612,December.Julian Kupiec.
1993.
An algorithm for finding nounphrase correspondences in bilingual corpora.
InACL, pages 17?22, Stroudsburg, PA, USA.Wai Lam, Shing-Kit Chan, and Ruizhang Huang.2007.
Named entity translation matching and learn-ing: With application for mining unseen transla-tions.
ACM Trans.
Inf.
Syst., 25(1), February.Dekang Lin, Shaojun Zhao, Benjamin Van Durme, andMarius Pasca.
2008.
Mining parenthetical transla-tions from the web by word alignment.
In ACL.Thahir Mohamed, Estevam Hruschka, and TomMitchell.
2011.
Discovering relations betweennoun categories.
In EMNLP, pages 1447?1455, Ed-inburgh, Scotland, UK., July.Ndapandula Nakashole, Gerhard Weikum, andFabian M. Suchanek.
2012.
PATTY: A Taxonomyof Relational Patterns with Semantic Types.
InEMNLP.Patrick Schone, Tim Allison, Chris Giannella, andCraig Pfeifer.
2011.
Bootstrapping multilin-gual relation discovery using english wikipedia andwikimedia-induced entity extraction.
In ICTAI,pages 944?951, Washington, DC, USA.Li Shao and Hwee Tou Ng.
2004.
Mining new wordtranslations from comparable corpora.
In COLING,Stroudsburg, PA, USA.S.
Van Dongen.
2000.
Graph Clustering by Flow Sim-ulation.
Ph.D. thesis, University of Utrecht, TheNetherlands.Stephen Wan and Cornelia Maria Verspoor.
1998.
Au-tomatic english-chinese name transliteration for de-velopment of multilingual resources.
In ACL, pages1352?1356, Stroudsburg, PA, USA.Douglas Brent West.
1999.
Introduction to graph the-ory (2nd edition).
Prentice Hall.Fan Yang, Jun Zhao, and Kang Liu.
2009.
A chinese-english organization name translation system usingheuristic web mining and asymmetric alignment.
InJoint Conference of the ACL and the IJCNLP, pages387?395, Stroudsburg, PA, USA.Gae-won You, Seung-won Hwang, Young-In Song,Long Jiang, and Zaiqing Nie.
2010.
Mining nametranslations from entity graph mapping.
In EMNLP,pages 430?439, Stroudsburg, PA, USA.Gae-Won You, Seung-Won Hwang, Young-In Song,Long Jiang, and Zaiqing Nie.
2012.
Efficient entitytranslation mining: A parallelized graph alignmentapproach.
ACM Trans.
Inf.
Syst., 30(4):25:1?25:23,November.640
