Proceedings of the 51st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics, pages 255?261,Sofia, Bulgaria, August 4-9 2013. c?2013 Association for Computational LinguisticsIdentifying English and Hungarian Light Verb Constructions:A Contrastive ApproachVeronika Vincze1,2, Istva?n Nagy T.2 and Richa?rd Farkas21Hungarian Academy of Sciences, Research Group on Artificial Intelligencevinczev@inf.u-szeged.hu2Department of Informatics, University of Szeged{nistvan,rfarkas}@inf.u-szeged.huAbstractHere, we introduce a machine learning-based approach that allows us to identifylight verb constructions (LVCs) in Hun-garian and English free texts.
We alsopresent the results of our experiments onthe SzegedParalellFX English?Hungarianparallel corpus where LVCs were manu-ally annotated in both languages.
Withour approach, we were able to contrastthe performance of our method and definelanguage-specific features for these typo-logically different languages.
Our pre-sented method proved to be sufficiently ro-bust as it achieved approximately the samescores on the two typologically differentlanguages.1 IntroductionIn natural language processing (NLP), a signifi-cant part of research is carried out on the Englishlanguage.
However, the investigation of languagesthat are typologically different from English isalso essential since it can lead to innovations thatmight be usefully integrated into systems devel-oped for English.
Comparative approaches mayalso highlight some important differences amonglanguages and the usefulness of techniques that areapplied.In this paper, we focus on the task of identify-ing light verb constructions (LVCs) in English andHungarian free texts.
Thus, the same task will becarried out for English and a morphologically richlanguage.
We compare whether the same set offeatures can be used for both languages, we in-vestigate the benefits of integrating language spe-cific features into the systems and we explore howthe systems could be further improved.
For thispurpose, we make use of the English?Hungarianparallel corpus SzegedParalellFX (Vincze, 2012),where LVCs have been manually annotated.2 Light Verb ConstructionsLight verb constructions (e.g.
to give advice) area subtype of multiword expressions (Sag et al,2002).
They consist of a nominal and a verbalcomponent where the verb functions as the syn-tactic head, but the semantic head is the noun.
Theverbal component (also called a light verb) usu-ally loses its original sense to some extent.
Al-though it is the noun that conveys most of themeaning of the construction, the verb itself can-not be viewed as semantically bleached (Apres-jan, 2004; Alonso Ramos, 2004; Sanroma?n Vi-las, 2009) since it also adds important aspects tothe meaning of the construction (for instance, thebeginning of an action, such as set on fire, seeMel?c?uk (2004)).
The meaning of LVCs can beonly partially computed on the basis of the mean-ings of their parts and the way they are related toeach other, hence it is important to treat them in aspecial way in many NLP applications.LVCs are usually distinguished from productiveor literal verb + noun constructions on the onehand and idiomatic verb + noun expressions onthe other (Fazly and Stevenson, 2007).
Variativ-ity and omitting the verb play the most significantrole in distinguishing LVCs from productive con-structions and idioms (Vincze, 2011).
Variativityreflects the fact that LVCs can be often substitutedby a verb derived from the same root as the nomi-nal component within the construction: productiveconstructions and idioms can be rarely substitutedby a single verb (like make a decision ?
decide).Omitting the verb exploits the fact that it is thenominal component that mostly bears the seman-tic content of the LVC, hence the event denotedby the construction can be determined even with-out the verb in most cases.
Furthermore, the verysame noun + verb combination may function as anLVC in certain contexts while it is just a productiveconstruction in other ones, compare He gave her a255ring made of gold (non-LVC) and He gave her aring because he wanted to hear her voice (LVC),hence it is important to identify them in context.In theoretical linguistics, Kearns (2002) distin-guishes between two subtypes of light verb con-structions.
True light verb constructions such asto give a wipe or to have a laugh and vague ac-tion verbs such as to make an agreement or todo the ironing differ in some syntactic and se-mantic features and can be separated by varioustests, e.g.
passivization, WH-movement, pronom-inalization etc.
This distinction also manifests innatural language processing as several authors payattention to the identification of just true light verbconstructions, e.g.
Tu and Roth (2011).
However,here we do not make such a distinction and aim toidentify all types of light verb constructions bothin English and in Hungarian, in accordance withthe annotation principles of SZPFX.The canonical form of a Hungarian light verbconstruction is a bare noun + third person singularverb.
However, they may occur in non-canonicalversions as well: the verb may precede the noun,or the noun and the verb may be not adjacent dueto the free word order.
Moreover, as Hungarianis a morphologically rich language, the verb mayoccur in different surface forms inflected for tense,mood, person and number.
These features will bepaid attention to when implementing our systemfor detecting Hungarian LVCs.3 Related WorkRecently, LVCs have received special interest inthe NLP research community.
They have been au-tomatically identified in several languages such asEnglish (Cook et al, 2007; Bannard, 2007; Vinczeet al, 2011a; Tu and Roth, 2011), Dutch (Van deCruys and Moiro?n, 2007), Basque (Gurrutxagaand Alegria, 2011) and German (Evert and Ker-mes, 2003).Parallel corpora are of high importance in theautomatic identification of multiword expressions:it is usually one-to-many correspondence that isexploited when designing methods for detectingmultiword expressions.
Caseli et al (2010) de-veloped an alignment-based method for extractingmultiword expressions from Portuguese?Englishparallel corpora.
Samardz?ic?
and Merlo (2010) an-alyzed English and German light verb construc-tions in parallel corpora: they pay special attentionto their manual and automatic alignment.
Zarrie?and Kuhn (2009) argued that multiword expres-sions can be reliably detected in parallel corporaby using dependency-parsed, word-aligned sen-tences.
Sinha (2009) detected Hindi complexpredicates (i.e.
a combination of a light verb anda noun, a verb or an adjective) in a Hindi?Englishparallel corpus by identifying a mismatch of theHindi light verb meaning in the aligned Englishsentence.
Many-to-one correspondences were alsoexploited by Attia et al (2010) when identifyingArabic multiword expressions relying on asym-metries between paralell entry titles of Wikipedia.Tsvetkov and Wintner (2010) identified Hebrewmultiword expressions by searching for misalign-ments in an English?Hebrew parallel corpus.To the best of our knowledge, parallel corporahave not been used for testing the efficiency of anMWE-detecting method for two languages at thesame time.
Here, we investigate the performanceof our base LVC-detector on English and Hungar-ian and pay special attention to the added value oflanguage-specific features.4 ExperimentsIn our investigations we made use of the Szeged-ParalellFX English-Hungarian parallel corpus,which consists of 14,000 sentences and containsabout 1370 LVCs for each language.
In addition,we are aware of two other corpora ?
the SzegedTreebank (Vincze and Csirik, 2010) and Wiki50(Vincze et al, 2011b) ?, which were manually an-notated for LVCs on the basis of similar principlesas SZPFX, so we exploited these corpora whendefining our features.To automatically identify LVCs in runningtexts, a machine learning based approach was ap-plied.
This method first parsed each sentence andextracted potential LVCs.
Afterwards, a binaryclassification method was utilized, which can au-tomatically classify potential LVCs as an LVC ornot.
This binary classifier was based on a rich fea-ture set described below.The candidate extraction method investi-gated the dependency relation among the verbsand nouns.
Verb-object, verb-subject, verb-prepositional object, verb-other argument (in thecase of Hungarian) and noun-modifier pairs werecollected from the texts.
The dependency labelswere provided by the Bohnet parser (Bohnet,2010) for English and by magyarlanc 2.0(Zsibrita et al, 2013) for Hungarian.256The features used by the binary classifier can becategorised as follows:Morphological features: As the nominal com-ponent of LVCs is typically derived from a verbalstem (make a decision) or coincides with a verb(have a walk), the VerbalStem binary feature fo-cuses on the stem of the noun; if it had a verbalnature, the candidates were marked as true.
ThePOS-pattern feature investigates the POS-tag se-quence of the potential LVC.
If it matched one pat-tern typical of LVCs (e.g.
verb + noun) thecandidate was marked as true; otherwise as false.The English auxiliary verbs, do and have oftenoccur as light verbs, hence we defined a feature forthe two verbs to denote whether or not they wereauxiliary verbs in a given sentence.The POS codeof the next word of LVC candidate was also ap-plied as a feature.
As Hungarian is a morpholog-ically rich language, we were able to define vari-ous morphology-based features like the case of thenoun or its number etc.
Nouns which were histor-ically derived from verbs but were not treated asderivation by the Hungarian morphological parserwere also added as a feature.Semantic features: This feature also exploitedthe fact that the nominal component is usually de-rived from verbs.
Consequently, the activityor event semantic senses were looked for amongthe upper level hyperonyms of the head of thenoun phrase in English WordNet 3.11 and in theHungarian WordNet (Miha?ltz et al, 2008).Orthographic features: The suffix feature isalso based on the fact that many nominal compo-nents in LVCs are derived from verbs.
This featurechecks whether the lemma of the noun ended ina given character bi- or trigram.
The number ofwords of the candidate LVC was also noted andapplied as a feature.Statistical features: Potential English LVCsand their occurrences were collected from 10,000English Wikipedia pages by the candidate extrac-tion method.
The number of occurrences was usedas a feature when the candidate was one of the syn-tactic phrases collected.Lexical features: We exploit the fact that themost common verbs are typically light verbs.Therefore, fifteen typical light verbs were selectedfrom the list of the most frequent verbs taken fromthe Wiki50 (Vincze et al, 2011b) in the case of En-glish and from the Szeged Treebank (Vincze and1http://wordnet.princeton.eduCsirik, 2010) in the case of Hungarian.
Then, weinvestigated whether the lemmatised verbal com-ponent of the candidate was one of these fifteenverbs.
The lemma of the noun was also appliedas a lexical feature.
The nouns found in LVCswere collected from the above-mentioned corpora.Afterwards, we constructed lists of lemmatisedLVCs got from the other corpora.Syntactic features: As the candidate extractionmethods basically depended on the dependencyrelation between the noun and the verb, they couldalso be utilised in identifying LVCs.
Though thedobj, prep, rcmod, partmod or nsubjpassdependency labels were used in candidate extrac-tion in the case of English, these syntactic relationswere defined as features, while the att, obj,obl, subj dependency relations were used in thecase of Hungarian.
When the noun had a deter-miner in the candidate LVC, it was also encodedas another syntactic feature.Our feature set includes language-independentand language-specific features as well.
Language-independent features seek to acquire general fea-tures of LVCs while language-specific features canbe applied due to the different grammatical char-acteristics of the two languages or due to the avail-ability of different resources.
Table 1 shows whichfeatures were applied for which language.We experimented with several learning algo-rithms and decision trees have been proven per-forming best.
This is probably due to the fact thatour feature set consists of compact ?
i.e.
high-level ?
features.
We trained the J48 classifier of theWEKA package (Hall et al, 2009).
This machinelearning approach implements the decision treesalgorithm C4.5 (Quinlan, 1993).
The J48 classi-fier was trained with the above-mentioned featuresand we evaluated it in a 10-fold cross validation.The potential LVCs which are extracted by thecandidate extraction method but not marked aspositive in the gold standard were classed as neg-ative.
As just the positive LVCs were annotatedon the SZPFX corpus, the F?=1 score interpretedon the positive class was employed as an evalu-ation metric.
The candidate extraction methodscould not detect all LVCs in the corpus data, sosome positive elements in the corpora were notcovered.
Hence, we regarded the omitted LVCsas false negatives in our evaluation.257Features Base English HungarianOrthographical ?
?
?VerbalStem ?
?
?POS pattern ?
?
?LVC list ?
?
?Light verb list ?
?
?Semantic features ?
?
?Syntactic features ?
?
?Auxiliary verb ?
?
?Determiner ?
?
?Noun list ?
?
?POS After ?
?
?LVC freq.
stat.
?
?
?Agglutinative morph.
?
?
?Historical derivation ?
?
?Table 1: The basic feature set and language-specific features.English HungarianML 63.29/56.91/59.93 66.1/50.04/56.96DM 73.71/29.22/41.67 63.24/34.46/44.59Table 2: Results obtained in terms of precision, re-call and F-score.
ML: machine learning approachDM: dictionary matching method.5 ResultsAs a baseline, a context free dictionary matchingmethod was applied.
For this, the gold-standardLVC lemmas were gathered from Wiki50 and theSzeged Treebank.
Texts were lemmatized and ifan item on the list was found in the text, it wastreated as an LVC.Table 2 lists the results got on the two differ-ent parts of SZPFX using the machine learning-based approach and the baseline dictionary match-ing.
The dictionary matching approach yielded thehighest precision on the English part of SZPFX,namely 73.71%.
However, the machine learning-based approach proved to be the most successfulas it achieved an F-score that was 18.26 higherthan that with dictionary matching.
Hence, thismethod turned out to be more effective regard-ing recall.
At the same time, the machine learn-ing and dictionary matching methods got roughlythe same precision score on the Hungarian part ofSZPFX, but again the machine learning-based ap-proach achieved the best F-score.
While in thecase of English the dictionary matching methodgot a higher precision score, the machine learningapproach proved to be more effective.An ablation analysis was carried out to exam-ine the effectiveness of each individual feature ofthe machine learning-based candidate classifica-Feature English HungarianAll 59.93 56.96Lexical -19.11 -14.05Morphological -1.68 -1.75Orthographic -0.43 -3.31Syntactic -1.84 -1.28Semantic -2.17 -0.34Statistical -2.23 ?Language-specific -1.83 -1.05Table 3: The usefulness of individual features interms of F-score using the SZPFX corpus.tion.
For each feature type, a J48 classifier wastrained with all of the features except that one.
Wealso investigated how language-specific featuresimproved the performance compared to the basefeature set.
We then compared the performance tothat got with all the features.
Table 3 shows thecontribution of each individual feature type on theSZPFX corpus.
For each of the two languages,each type of feature contributed to the overall per-formance.
Lexical features were very effective inboth languages.6 DiscussionAccording to the results, our base system is ro-bust enough to achieve approximately the sameresults on two typologically different languages.Language-specific features further contribute tothe performance as shown by the ablation anal-ysis.
It should be also mentioned that some ofthe base features (e.g.
POS-patterns, which wethought would be useful for English due to thefixed word order) were originally inspired by oneof the languages and later expanded to the otherone (i.e.
they were included in the base feature set)since it was also effective in the case of the otherlanguage.
Thus, a multilingual approach may bealso beneficial in the case of monolingual applica-tions as well.The most obvious difference between the per-formances on the two languages is the recall scores(the difference being 6.87 percentage points be-tween the two languages).
This may be related tothe fact that the distribution of light verbs is quitedifferent in the two languages.
While the top 15verbs covers more than 80% of the English LVCs,in Hungarian, this number is only 63% (and in or-der to reach the same coverage, 38 verbs should beincluded).
Another difference is that there are 102258different verbs in English, which follow the Zipfdistribution, on the other hand, there are 157 Hun-garian verbs with a more balanced distributionalpattern.
Thus, fewer verbs cover a greater part ofLVCs in English than in Hungarian and this alsoexplains why lexical features contribute more tothe overall performance in English.
This fact alsoindicates that if verb lists are further extended, stillbetter recall scores may be achieved for both lan-guages.As for the effectiveness of morphological andsyntactic features, morphological features performbetter on a language with a rich morphologi-cal representation (Hungarian).
However, syntaxplays a more important role in LVC detection inEnglish: the added value of syntax is higher forthe English corpora than for the Hungarian one,where syntactic features are also encoded in suf-fixes, i.e.
morphological information.We carried out an error analysis in order to seehow our system could be further improved andthe errors reduced.
We concluded that there weresome general and language-specific errors as well.Among the general errors, we found that LVCswith a rare light verb were difficult to recognize(e.g.
to utter a lie).
In other cases, an originallydeverbal noun was used in a lexicalised sense to-gether with a typical light verb ((e.g.
buildingsare given (something)) and these candidates werefalsely classed as LVCs.
Also, some errors inPOS-tagging or dependency parsing also led tosome erroneous predictions.As for language-specific errors, English verb-particle combinations (VPCs) followed by a nounwere often labeled as LVCs such as make uphis mind or give in his notice.
In Hungar-ian, verb + proper noun constructions (Hamletetja?tssza?k (Hamlet-ACC play-3PL.DEF) ?they areplaying Hamlet?)
were sometimes regarded asLVCs since the morphological analysis does notmake a distinction between proper and commonnouns.
These language-specific errors may beeliminated by integrating a VPC detector and anamed entity recognition system into the Englishand Hungarian systems, respectively.Although there has been a considerable amountof literature on English LVC identification (seeSection 3), our results are not directly comparableto them.
This may be explained by the fact that dif-ferent authors aimed to identify a different scopeof linguistic phenomena and thus interpreted theconcept of ?light verb construction?
slightly dif-ferently.
For instance, Tu and Roth (2011) and Tanet al (2006) focused only on true light verb con-structions while only object?verb pairs are consid-ered in other studies (Stevenson et al, 2004; Tan etal., 2006; Fazly and Stevenson, 2007; Cook et al,2007; Bannard, 2007; Tu and Roth, 2011).
Severalother studies report results only on light verb con-structions formed with certain light verbs (Steven-son et al, 2004; Tan et al, 2006; Tu and Roth,2011).
In contrast, we aimed to identify all kindsof LVCs, i.e.
we did not apply any restrictions onthe nature of LVCs to be detected.
In other words,our task was somewhat more difficult than thosefound in earlier literature.
Although our results aresomewhat lower on English LVC detection thanthose attained by previous studies, we think thatdespite the difficulty of the task, our method couldoffer promising results for identifying all types ofLVCs both in English and in Hungarian.7 ConclusionsIn this paper, we introduced our machine learning-based approach for identifying LVCs in Hungar-ian and English free texts.
The method provedto be sufficiently robust as it achieved approxi-mately the same scores on two typologically dif-ferent languages.
The language-specific featuresfurther contributed to the performance in both lan-guages.
In addition, some language-independentfeatures were inspired by one of the languages, soa multilingual approach proved to be fruitful in thecase of monolingual LVC detection as well.In the future, we would like to improve our sys-tem by conducting a detailed analysis of the effectof each feature on the results.
Later, we also planto adapt the tool to other types of multiword ex-pressions and conduct further experiments on lan-guages other than English and Hungarian, the re-sults of which may further lead to a more robust,general LVC system.
Moreover, we can improvethe method applied in each language by imple-menting other language-specific features as well.AcknowledgmentsThis work was supported in part by the EuropeanUnion and the European Social Fund through theproject FuturICT.hu (grant no.
: TA?MOP-4.2.2.C-11/1/KONV-2012-0013).259ReferencesMargarita Alonso Ramos.
2004.
Las construccionescon verbo de apoyo.
Visor Libros, Madrid.Jurij D. Apresjan.
2004.
O semantic?eskoj nepustotei motivirovannosti glagol?nyx leksic?eskix funkcij.Voprosy jazykoznanija, (4):3?18.Mohammed Attia, Antonio Toral, Lamia Tounsi, PavelPecina, and Josef van Genabith.
2010.
AutomaticExtraction of Arabic Multiword Expressions.
InProceedings of the 2010 Workshop on MultiwordExpressions: from Theory to Applications, pages19?27, Beijing, China, August.
Coling 2010 Orga-nizing Committee.Colin Bannard.
2007.
A measure of syntactic flexibil-ity for automatically identifying multiword expres-sions in corpora.
In Proceedings of the Workshopon a Broader Perspective on Multiword Expressions,MWE ?07, pages 1?8, Morristown, NJ, USA.
Asso-ciation for Computational Linguistics.Bernd Bohnet.
2010.
Top accuracy and fast depen-dency parsing is not a contradiction.
In Proceedingsof the 23rd International Conference on Computa-tional Linguistics (Coling 2010), pages 89?97.Helena de Medeiros Caseli, Carlos Ramisch, Maria dasGrac?as Volpe Nunes, and Aline Villavicencio.
2010.Alignment-based extraction of multiword expres-sions.
Language Resources and Evaluation, 44(1-2):59?77.Paul Cook, Afsaneh Fazly, and Suzanne Stevenson.2007.
Pulling their weight: exploiting syntacticforms for the automatic identification of idiomaticexpressions in context.
In Proceedings of the Work-shop on a Broader Perspective on Multiword Ex-pressions, MWE ?07, pages 41?48, Morristown, NJ,USA.
Association for Computational Linguistics.Stefan Evert and Hannah Kermes.
2003.
Experimentson candidate data for collocation extraction.
In Pro-ceedings of EACL 2003, pages 83?86.Afsaneh Fazly and Suzanne Stevenson.
2007.
Distin-guishing Subtypes of Multiword Expressions UsingLinguistically-Motivated Statistical Measures.
InProceedings of the Workshop on A Broader Perspec-tive on Multiword Expressions, pages 9?16, Prague,Czech Republic, June.
Association for Computa-tional Linguistics.Antton Gurrutxaga and In?aki Alegria.
2011.
Auto-matic Extraction of NV Expressions in Basque: Ba-sic Issues on Cooccurrence Techniques.
In Proceed-ings of the Workshop on Multiword Expressions:from Parsing and Generation to the Real World,pages 2?7, Portland, Oregon, USA, June.
Associa-tion for Computational Linguistics.Mark Hall, Eibe Frank, Geoffrey Holmes, BernhardPfahringer, Peter Reutemann, and Ian H. Witten.2009.
The WEKA data mining software: an update.SIGKDD Explorations, 11(1):10?18.Kate Kearns.
2002.
Light verbs in English.Manuscript.Igor Mel?c?uk.
2004.
Verbes supports sans peine.Lingvisticae Investigationes, 27(2):203?217.Ma?rton Miha?ltz, Csaba Hatvani, Judit Kuti, Gyo?rgySzarvas, Ja?nos Csirik, Ga?bor Pro?sze?ky, and Tama?sVa?radi.
2008.
Methods and Results of the Hun-garian WordNet Project.
In Attila Tana?cs, Do?raCsendes, Veronika Vincze, Christiane Fellbaum, andPiek Vossen, editors, Proceedings of the FourthGlobal WordNet Conference (GWC 2008), pages311?320, Szeged.
University of Szeged.Ross Quinlan.
1993.
C4.5: Programs for MachineLearning.
Morgan Kaufmann Publishers, San Ma-teo, CA.Ivan A.
Sag, Timothy Baldwin, Francis Bond, AnnCopestake, and Dan Flickinger.
2002.
MultiwordExpressions: A Pain in the Neck for NLP.
In Pro-ceedings of the 3rd International Conference on In-telligent Text Processing and Computational Lin-guistics (CICLing-2002, pages 1?15, Mexico City,Mexico.Tanja Samardz?ic?
and Paola Merlo.
2010.
Cross-lingualvariation of light verb constructions: Using parallelcorpora and automatic alignment for linguistic re-search.
In Proceedings of the 2010 Workshop onNLP and Linguistics: Finding the Common Ground,pages 52?60, Uppsala, Sweden, July.
Associationfor Computational Linguistics.Begon?a Sanroma?n Vilas.
2009.
Towards a seman-tically oriented selection of the values of Oper1.The case of golpe ?blow?
in Spanish.
In DavidBeck, Kim Gerdes, Jasmina Milic?evic?, and AlainPolgue`re, editors, Proceedings of the Fourth In-ternational Conference on Meaning-Text Theory ?MTT?09, pages 327?337, Montreal, Canada.
Univer-site?
de Montre?al.R.
Mahesh K. Sinha.
2009.
Mining Complex Predi-cates In Hindi Using A Parallel Hindi-English Cor-pus.
In Proceedings of the Workshop on MultiwordExpressions: Identification, Interpretation, Disam-biguation and Applications, pages 40?46, Singa-pore, August.
Association for Computational Lin-guistics.Suzanne Stevenson, Afsaneh Fazly, and Ryan North.2004.
Statistical Measures of the Semi-Productivityof Light Verb Constructions.
In Takaaki Tanaka,Aline Villavicencio, Francis Bond, and Anna Ko-rhonen, editors, Second ACL Workshop on Multi-word Expressions: Integrating Processing, pages 1?8, Barcelona, Spain, July.
Association for Computa-tional Linguistics.Yee Fan Tan, Min-Yen Kan, and Hang Cui.
2006.Extending corpus-based identification of light verbconstructions using a supervised learning frame-work.
In Proceedings of the EACL Workshop on260Multi-Word Expressions in a Multilingual Contexts,pages 49?56, Trento, Italy, April.
Association forComputational Linguistics.Yulia Tsvetkov and Shuly Wintner.
2010.
Extrac-tion of multi-word expressions from small parallelcorpora.
In Coling 2010: Posters, pages 1256?1264, Beijing, China, August.
Coling 2010 Organiz-ing Committee.Yuancheng Tu and Dan Roth.
2011.
Learning EnglishLight Verb Constructions: Contextual or Statistical.In Proceedings of the Workshop on Multiword Ex-pressions: from Parsing and Generation to the RealWorld, pages 31?39, Portland, Oregon, USA, June.Association for Computational Linguistics.Tim Van de Cruys and Begon?a Villada Moiro?n.
2007.Semantics-based multiword expression extraction.In Proceedings of the Workshop on a BroaderPerspective on Multiword Expressions, MWE ?07,pages 25?32, Morristown, NJ, USA.
Association forComputational Linguistics.Veronika Vincze and Ja?nos Csirik.
2010.
Hungar-ian corpus of light verb constructions.
In Proceed-ings of the 23rd International Conference on Com-putational Linguistics (Coling 2010), pages 1110?1118, Beijing, China, August.
Coling 2010 Organiz-ing Committee.Veronika Vincze, Istva?n Nagy T., and Ga?bor Berend.2011a.
Detecting Noun Compounds and Light VerbConstructions: a Contrastive Study.
In Proceedingsof the Workshop on Multiword Expressions: fromParsing and Generation to the Real World, pages116?121, Portland, Oregon, USA, June.
ACL.Veronika Vincze, Istva?n Nagy T., and Ga?bor Berend.2011b.
Multiword expressions and named entities inthe Wiki50 corpus.
In Proceedings of RANLP 2011,Hissar, Bulgaria.Veronika Vincze.
2011.
Semi-Compositional Noun+ Verb Constructions: Theoretical Questions andComputational Linguistic Analyses.
Ph.D. thesis,University of Szeged, Szeged, Hungary.Veronika Vincze.
2012.
Light Verb Constructionsin the SzegedParalellFX English?Hungarian Paral-lel Corpus.
In Nicoletta Calzolari, Khalid Choukri,Thierry Declerck, Mehmet Ug?ur Dog?an, BenteMaegaard, Joseph Mariani, Jan Odijk, and SteliosPiperidis, editors, Proceedings of the Eight Interna-tional Conference on Language Resources and Eval-uation (LREC?12), Istanbul, Turkey, May.
EuropeanLanguage Resources Association (ELRA).Sina Zarrie?
and Jonas Kuhn.
2009.
Exploiting Trans-lational Correspondences for Pattern-IndependentMWE Identification.
In Proceedings of the Work-shop on Multiword Expressions: Identification,Interpretation, Disambiguation and Applications,pages 23?30, Singapore, August.
Association forComputational Linguistics.Ja?nos Zsibrita, Veronika Vincze, and Richa?rd Farkas.2013.
magyarlanc 2.0: szintaktikai elemze?s e?s fel-gyors?
?tott szo?faji egye?rtelmu?s?
?te?s [magyarlanc 2.0:Syntactic parsing and accelerated POS-tagging].In Attila Tana?cs and Veronika Vincze, editors,MSzNy 2013 ?
IX.
Magyar Sza?m?
?to?ge?pes Nyelve?szetiKonferencia, pages 368?374, Szeged.
Szegedi Tu-doma?nyegyetem.261
