Proceedings of the ACL Student Research Workshop, pages 89?95,Sofia, Bulgaria, August 4-9 2013. c?2013 Association for Computational LinguisticsComputational considerations of comparisons and similesVlad NiculaeUniversity of Wolverhamptonvlad@vene.roVictoria YanevaUniversity of Wolverhamptonv.yaneva@wlv.ac.ukAbstractThis paper presents work in progress to-wards automatic recognition and classifi-cation of comparisons and similes.Among possible applications, we discussthe place of this task in text simplifica-tion for readers with Autism SpectrumDisorders (ASD), who are known to havedeficits in comprehending figurative lan-guage.We propose an approach to comparisonrecognition through the use of syntacticpatterns.
Keeping in mind the require-ments of autistic readers, we discuss theproperties relevant for distinguishing se-mantic criteria like figurativeness and ab-stractness.1 IntroductionComparisons are phrases that express the likenessof two entities.
They rely on specific patterns thatmake them recognisable.
The most obvious pat-tern, be like , is illustrated by the followingexample, but many subtler ways of building com-parisons exist:?He was like his father, except he hada crooked nose and his ears were a littlelopsided.?
(In ?Black cat?
by Alex Krill)Similes are a subset of comparisons.
The simileis a figure of speech that builds on a comparison inorder to exploit certain attributes of an entity in astriking manner.
According to the Oxford EnglishDictionary, what sets a simile apart from a com-parison is that it compares ?one thing with anotherthing of a different kind?1.1?simile, n. a figure of speech involving the comparisonof one thing with another thing of a different kind, used tomake a description more emphatic or vivid (e.g.
as brave as alion)?
OED Online.
June 2004.
Oxford University Press.
06February 2013 http://dictionary.oed.com/.A popular example by Charles Dickens is:?Mrs.
Cratchit entered: flushed, butsmiling proudly: with the pudding, likea speckled cannon-ball, so hard andfirm, (...)?
(In ?A Christmas Carol?
byCharles Dickens)The comparison between a Christmas puddingand a cannon-ball is so unexpected, as deliciousdeserts are not conventionally associated withcannon-balls (or any kind of metal objects), thatthe author needs to clarify the resemblance byadding ?so hard and firm?
right after the sim-ile.
Intuitively, the OED definition is confirmedby these two examples: a Christmas puddingand a cannon-ball are things of different kinds,whereas he and his father are things of the samekind (namely, human males).
As we shall see,the borderline which divides some similes andfixed expressions is the degree of conventional-ity.
Many other phrases used by Dickens in ?AChristmas Carol?
also link two notions of differ-ent kinds: Old Marley was ?as dead as a doornail?and Scrooge was ?as hard as flint?
and ?as soli-tary as an oyster?.
In these cases, however, thelink between the two entities is a pattern repeatedso many times that it has consequently lost its in-novativeness and turned into a dead metaphor (?asdead as a doornail?)
or a conventional simile (sec-tions 4.1, 5.4.2).The scholarly discussion of the simile has beencontroversial, especially with respect to its rela-tive, the metaphor.
The two were regarded as veryclose by Aristotle?s Rhetoric: ?The simile, also, isa metaphor, the difference is but slight?
(Aristote-les and Cooper, 1932).
However, modern researchhas largely focused on metaphor, while the sim-ile suffered a defiguration, described and arguedagainst by Bethlehem (1996): in order to supportthe idea that the metaphor embodies the essence offigurativeness, the simile was gradually stripped of89its status as figure of speech.Metaphor is defined as ?a word or phrase ap-plied to an object or action to which it is not liter-ally applicable?2.In other words, a metaphor links features of ob-jects or events from two different, often incompat-ible domains, thus being a ?realization of a cross-domain conceptual mapping?
(Deignan, 2005).We are interested in the parallel between similesand metaphors insofar as it points to an overlap.There are types of similes that can be transformedinto equivalent metaphors, and certain metaphorscan be rewritten as similes, but neither set is in-cluded in the other.
This view is supported bycorpus evidence (Hanks, 2012) and contradicts re-ductionist defiguration point of view, in a way thatIsrael et al(2004) suggest: some metaphors ex-press things that cannot be expressed by similes,and vice versa.In computational linguistics, similes have beenneglected in favour of metaphor even more thanin linguistics3 , despite the fact that comparisonshave a structure that makes them rather amenableto automated processing.
In sections 2 we discussone motivation for studying comparisons and sim-iles: their simplification to language better suitedfor people with ASD.
Section 3 reviews relatedwork on figurative language in NLP.
In section 4we present the structure of comparisons and someassociated patterns, emphasising the difficultiesposed by the flexibility of language.
Section 5describes computational approaches to the tasks,along with results from preliminary experimentssupporting our ideas.
The study is wrapped up andfuture work is presented in section 6.2 Autism and simile comprehension2.1 Autism and figurative languageHighly abstract or figurative metaphors and sim-iles may be problematic for certain groups oflanguage users amongst which are people withdifferent types of acquired language disorders(aphasias) or developmental ones like ASD.
Asa result of impairment in communication, socialinteraction and behaviour, ASD are characterised2?metaphor, n.?
OED Online.
June 2004.
Oxford Univer-sity Press.
06 February 2013 http://dictionary.oed.com/3A Google Scholar search for papers containing the wordlinguistic have the word metaphor in the title approximately5000 times, but simile only around 645 times.
In the ACLanthology, metaphor occurs around 1070 times while simileoccurs 52 times.by atypical information processing in diverse areasof cognition (Skoyles, 2011).
People with autism,especially if they are children, experience disturb-ing confusion when confronted with figurative lan-guage.
Happe?
(1995) describes:A request to ?Stick your coat down overthere?
is met by a serious request forglue.
Ask if she will ?give you a hand?,and she will answer that she needs tokeep both hands and cannot cut one offto give to you.
Tell him that his sisteris ?crying her eyes out?
and he will lookanxiously on the floor for her eye-balls...The decreased ability of autistic people to un-derstand metaphors and figurative language as awhole (Rundblad and Annaz, 2010; MacKay andShaw, 2004; Happe?, 1995), could be seen as an ob-stacle in communication, given that we all ?thinkin metaphors?
and a language system is ?figura-tive in its nature?
(Lakoff and Johson, 1980).
Thegrowing demand to overcome this barrier has ledto the investigation of possible ways in which NLPcan detect and simplify non-literal expressions ina text.2.2 Comprehending similesPeople with ASD4 show almost no impairmentin comprehending those similes which have lit-eral meaning (Happe?, 1995).
This relative ease inprocessing is probably due to the fact that similescontain explicit markers (e.g.
like and as), whichevoke comparison between two things in a certainaspect.With regard to understanding figurative similes,Hobson (2012) describes in the case of fifteen-year-old L.: ?He could neither grasp nor formulatesimilarities, differences or absurdities, nor couldhe understand metaphor?.Theoretically, one of the most obvious markersof similes, the word like, could be a source of alot of misinterpretations.
For example, like couldbe a verb, a noun, or a preposition, depending onthe context.
Given that autistic people have prob-lems understanding context (Skoyles, 2011), howwould an autistic reader perceive the role of likein a more elaborate and ambiguous comparison?Another possible linguistic reason for the impairedunderstanding of similes might be that like is used4With level of cognitive ability corresponding to at leastfirst level of Theory of Mind (Baron-Cohen et al 1985)90ambiguously in many expressions which are nei-ther similes nor comparisons, such as I feel like anice cream or I feel like something is wrong.Even if the expression does not include suchan ambiguous use of like, there are other casesin which a person with autism might be misled.For example, if the simile is highly figurative orabstract, it may be completely incomprehensiblefor people with ASD (e.g.
the conventional Love islike a flame).
A step forward towards the simpli-fication of such expressions is their identificationand filtering of the ones that are not problematic.Through manipulations, the difficult aspects suchas abstractness, figurativeness, and ambiguity canbe attenuated.3 Relevant literatureComprehensive theoretical investigations into theexpressive power of similes can be found in(Bethlehem, 1996) and (Israel et al 2004).Weiner (1984) applies ontologies to discriminatesimple literal and figurative comparisons (looselyusing the term metaphor to refer to what we callthe intersection of similes and metaphors).Most of the recent computational linguistics re-search involving similes comes from Veale.
In(Veale and Hao, 2008), the pattern as as is ex-ploited to mine salient and stereotypical propertiesof entities using the Google search engine.
A sim-ilar process has been applied to both English andChinese by Li et al(2012).
The Metaphor Mag-net system presented in (Veale and Li, 2012) sup-ports queries against a rich ontology of metaphor-ical meanings and affects using the same simplesimile patterns.
The Jigsaw Bard (Veale and Hao,2011) is a thesaurus driven by figurative conven-tional similes extracted from the Google Ngramcorpus.The role played by figurative language in thefield of text simplification has not been extensivelystudied outside of a few recent publications (Tem-nikova, 2012; S?tajner et al 2012).4 Anatomy of a comparison4.1 Conventionality: norms and exploitationsThe theory of norms and exploitations (Hanks,2013) describes language norms as ?a pattern ofordinary usage in everyday language with whicha particular meaning or implicature is associated?and argues that norms can be exploited in differ-ent ways in order to ?say new things or to say oldthings in new and interesting ways?.
This distinc-tion can be applied to similes: as slow as a snailis a conventional simile that evokes strong asso-ciation between slowness and snails.
On the con-trary, in she looked like a cross between a Christ-mas tree and an American footballer (exampleadapted from the British National Corpus, hence-forth BNC) a person (the topic) is not convention-ally associated with a Christmas tree (the vehicle),let ale if it is crossed with a football player.
Inthis example the vehicle is not merely unexpected,it also does not exist as a common pattern, and can,by itself, create amazement.Though figures of speech are good ways to ex-ploit norms, figurative language can become con-ventional, and an exploitation can be literal (e.g.word creation, ellipsis).The border between conventionality and cre-ativeness is fuzzy and heuristics such as the onesproposed in (Deignan, 2005) can only approxi-mate it.
Possible alternative methods are discussedin section 5.4.2.4.2 Syntactic structureThe breadth of comparisons and similes hasn?tbeen extensively studied, so there is no surprisein the small amount of coverage in computationallinguistics research on the subject.
In order to de-velop a solid foundation for working with complexcomparisons, we will follow and argue for the ter-minology from (Hanks, 2012), where the structureof a simile is analysed.
The same structure appliesto comparisons, since as we have said, all simi-les are comparisons and they are indistinguishablesyntactically.
The constituents of a comparisonare:?
T : the topic, sometimes called tenor: it isusually a noun phrase and acts as logical sub-ject.?
E: the eventuality (event or state): usually averb, it sets the frame for the observation ofthe common property.?
P : the shared property or ground: it ex-presses what the two entities have in com-mon.?
C: the comparator: commonly a preposition(like or part of an adjectival phrase (betterthan), it is the trigger word or phrase thatmarks the presence of a comparison.91VGE = VBHEADTSBJPPINC ?
{ like, as }HEADVOBJCOMP/ADV(a) Basic comparison pattern.
Matches heeats like a pig and it is seen as a release.VGE = VBHEADTSBJADJPINC = asADVJJPHEADSBARINC = asSUBORDV = SSENTDGCOMPPRD(b) Explicit comparison with double as.Matches expressions like it?s as easy as pie.Figure 1: GLARF-style representation of two basic comparison patterns.?
V : the vehicle: it is the object of the compar-ison and is also usually a noun phrase.An example (adapted from the BNC) of a simileinvolving all of the above would be:[He T ] [looked E] [like C] [a broiledfrog V ], [hunched P ] over his desk, grin-ning and satisfied.The order of the elements is flexible.Fishelov (1993) attributes this reordering topoetic simile, along with other deviations fromthe norm that he defines as non-poetic simile.We note, in agreement with Bethlehem (1996),that the distinction is rendered less useful whenthe focus is on the vague notion of poeticality.Fishelov even suggested that poetic similes can befound outside of poetic text, and vice versa.
Wewill therefore focus on exploitations that changethe meaning.More often than not, the property is left for thereader to deduce:[His mouth T ] [tasted E] [like C] [thebottom of a parrot?s cage V ]But even when all elements appear, the compar-ison may be ambiguous, as lexical choice in P andin E lead to various degrees of specificity.
Forexample replacing the word tasted, which formsthe E in the example above, with the more gen-eral predicator is, results in a simile that mighthave the same meaning, but is more difficult todecode.
On the other hand, the whole V phrasethe bottom of a parrot?s cage, which is an eu-phemistic metonymy, could be substituted withits concrete, literal meaning thus transforming thecreative simile into what might be a conventionalpattern.
Nested figures of speech can also occur atthis level, for example the insertion of a metaphor-ical and synesthetic P : it tasted [dirty P ], like aparrot?s cage.We consider the eventuality E as the syntac-tic core of the comparison structure.
Despite theapparently superior importance of the comparator,which acts as a trigger word, the event acts as apredicator, attracting to it the entire structure inthe form of a set of arguments.
This observationis missing from the work of Fishelov (1993) andBethlehem (1996), who lump the event togetherwith either P or T .
In terms of meaning, the twoconstituents are of course tightly connected, butto computationally identify the components, theirseparation is important.Roncero (2006) pointed out that for certaincommon similes (e.g.
love is like a rose) foundon the Internet, it is likely that an explanation ofthe shared property follows, whereas for all topic-vehicle pairs studied, the corresponding metaphoris less often explained.
However, these simplersimiles form a special case, as most similes can-not be made into metaphors (Hanks, 2012).924.3 Comparisons without likeHanks (2012) observes that there are plenty ofother ways to make a simile in addition to usinglike or as.
Most definitions of similes indeed claimthat there are more possible comparators, but ex-amples are elusive.Israel et al(2004) point out that any construc-tion that can make a comparison can be used tomake a simile.
This is a crucial point given theamount of flexibility available for such construc-tions.
An example they give is:[The retirement of Yves Saint LaurentT ] [is E] [the fashion equivalent C] of[the breakup of the Beatles V ].
(heardon the National Public Radio)We can see that it is possible for the comparatorto be informative and not just an empty marker, inthis case marking the domain (fashion) to whichthe topic refers to.5 Approaches proposed5.1 OverviewSimplifying creative language involves under-standing.
The task of understanding similes maybe hard to achieve.
We will not just write aboutthe components we have already developed (thepattern matching), but also present a broader plan.At a coarse scale, the process breaks down into asyntactic recognition step and a semantic step thatcould be called entailment.
The goal is to find outwhat is being said about the topic.
Often similesclaim that a property is present or absent, but thisis not always the case.5.2 DatasetAt the moment there is no available dataset forcomparison and simile recognition and classifica-tion.
We have begun our investigation and de-veloped the patterns on a toy dataset consistingof the examples from (Hanks, 2005), which arecomparisons, similes and other ambiguous usesof the preposition like extracted from the BNC.We also evaluated the system on around 500 sen-tences containing like and as from the BNC andthe VUAMC5.
The latter features some markingof trigger words, but we chose to score manuallyin order to assess the relevance of the annotation.5VU Amsterdam Metaphor Corpus (Steen et al 2010),available at www.metaphorlab.vu.nl5.3 Recognizing comparisons and similes5.3.1 Comparison pattern matchingWe have seen that similes are a subset of compar-isons and follow comparison structures.
A goodconsequence is that they follow syntactic patternsthat can be recognised.
We have used GLARF(Meyers et al 2001), an argument representationframework built on the output of the BLLIP parser.It enhances the constituency-based parse tree withadditional roles and arguments by applying rulesand resources like Propbank.
The like and as com-parators form the GLARF-style patterns shown infigure 1.
The matching process iterates over allnodes with arguments, principally verbs and nom-inalisations.
If the subtree rooted under it matchescertain filters, then we assign to the root the roleof E and the arguments can fill the other slots.We evaluated the process on the small devel-opment set as well as on the larger set of lexi-cal matches described above.
The results are pre-sented in table 1.
The mistakes on the develop-ment set, as well as many on the other corpus, arecaused by slightly different patterns (e.g.
he didn?tlook much like a doctor).
This can be addressedby adjustment or through automatic discovery ofpatterns.
Expressions like in hold your hands likethis are mistaken as comparisons.
Ad hoc setconstructions are mostly correctly unmatched (e.g.big earners like doctors and airline pilots but in-correctly matches semantically ambiguous uses offeel like.On the lexical matches of as, the behaviour isdifferent as the word seems much less likely to bea trigger.
Most errors are therefore returning spu-rious matches, as opposed to like, where most er-rors are omissions This suggests that each triggerword behaves differently, and therefore robustnessacross patterns is important.Overall, our method handles typical compar-isons in short sentences rather well.
Complex orlong sentences sometimes cause T and V to be in-completely identified, or sometimes the parse tofail.
This suggests that deep syntactic parsing is alimitation of the approach.5.3.2 Discovering new patternsUsing a seed-based semi-supervised iterative pro-cess, we plan to identify most of the frequentstructures used to build conventional comparisons.We expect that, in addition to idiomatic expres-sions, some T -V pairs often compared to each93full part nonecomparison 24 5 4not comparison 1 1 5(a) Counts of 40 examples with like from thedevelopment set in (Hanks, 2005).
Partial matchP = 94%, R = 88%.full part none0.17 0.07 0.330.05 0.05 0.33(b) Proportions of 410examples with like from BNCand VUAMC.
Partial matchP = 70.5%, R = 41.7%full part none0.11 0.05 0.090.26 0.11 0.39(c) Proportions of 376examples with as from BNCand VUAMC.
Partial matchP = 29.6%, R = 64.8%Table 1: Confusion matrices and precision/recall scores for comparison identification.
Full matching iswhen the heads of T,E, V and C are correctly identified, while partial is if only some of them are.other with the like pattern will occur in other syn-tactical patterns or lexical collocations.5.4 Semantic aspects5.4.1 Classifying comparisonsThe phrases that match patterns like the ones de-scribed are not necessarily comparisons.
Due toambiguities, sentences such as I feel like an icecream are indistinguishable from comparisons inour model.Another aspect we would like to distinguish iswhether an instance of a pattern is a simile or not.We plan to tackle this using machine learning.
Se-mantic features from an ontology like the one usedin PDEV6, or a more comprehensive work such asWordNet7, can carry the information whether Tand V belong to similar semantic categories.
Weexpect other information, such as distributionaland distributed word vector representations, to beof use.5.4.2 Conventional similesIt may also be of interest to decide whether an in-stance is conventional or creative.
This can be im-plemented by measuring corpus frequencies.
In-stead of looking for perfect matches, patterns canbe applied to simply count how many times some-thing is compared to a V , regardless of the specificsyntax used8.5.4.3 SimplificationThe goal of text simplification is to generate syn-tactically well-formed language9 that is easier to6http://deb.fi.muni.cz/pdev/7http://wordnet.princeton.edu/8Care must be taken to avoid contradictions from ex-ploitations: The aircraft is like a rock or is built like a rockseems like a conventional simile, but The aircraft would gen-tly skip like a rock and then settle down on the surface of theocean (Example from the BNC) is unconventional.9Especially for ASD readers, who are very sensitive tolanguage mistakes to the point that it completely distractsthem from the meaning.understand than the original phrase.A comparison can be formalized as predicateE(T ;P ).
We can think of his mouth tasted likethe bottom of a parrot?s cage as a way to expresstaste(his mouth; very bad).
There is more thanone way to build such an encoding.The task reduces to the generation a simplephrase of the form T ?E?P ?, by simplifying theelements of the representation above.
Useful re-sources are corpus occurrence counts of relatedphrases, word similarity and relatedness, and con-ventional associations.6 Conclusions and future workThe problem of automatic identification of simileshas its place in the paradigm of text simplificationfor people with language impairments.
In particu-lar, people with ASD have difficulties understand-ing figurative language.We applied the idea of comparison patterns tomatch subtrees of an enhanced parse tree to eas-ily match comparison structures and their con-stituents.
This lead us to investigate corpus-drivenmining of new comparison patterns, to go beyondlike and as.We are working on semi-automatically develop-ing a dataset of comparisons and ambiguous non-comparisons, labelled with the interesting proper-ties and with a focus on pattern variety and am-biguous cases.
This will be useful for evaluat-ing our system at a proper scale.
We plan to per-form extrinsic evaluation with respect to tasks liketext simplification, textual entailment and machinetranslation.AcknowledgementsThe research described in this paper was partiallyfunded by the European Commission through theFIRST project (FP7-287607) and partially by theBCROCE project.94ReferencesAristoteles and Lane Cooper.
1932.
The rhetoric ofAristotle.
Appleton.Simon Baron-Cohen, Alan M Leslie, and Uta Frith.1985.
Does the autistic child have a ?theory ofmind??
Cognition, 21(1):37?46.Louise Shabat Bethlehem.
1996.
Simile and figurativelanguage.
Poetics Today, v17(n2):p203(38).
table.Alice Deignan.
2005.
Metaphor and Corpus Linguis-tics.
Converging Evidence in Language and Com-munication Research Series.
John Benjamins.David Fishelov.
1993.
Poetic and non-poetic simile:Structure, semantics, rhetoric.
Poetics Today, pages1?23.Patrick Hanks.
2005.
Similes and Sets: The EnglishPreposition ?like?.
In R. Blatna?
and V. Petkevic, ed-itors, Languages and Linguistics: Festschrift for Fr.Cermak.Patrick Hanks.
2012.
The Roles and Structure of Com-parisons, Similes, and Metaphors in Natural Lan-guage (An Analogical System).
In Presented at theStockholm Metaphor Festival, September 6-8.Patrick Hanks.
2013.
Lexical Analysis: Norms andExploitations.
Mit Press.Francesca G. E. Happe?.
1995.
Understanding mindsand metaphors: Insights from the study of figurativelanguage in autism.
Metaphor and Symbolic Activ-ity, 10(4):275?295.R.
Peter Hobson.
2012.
Autism, literal language andconcrete thinking: Some developmental considera-tions.
Metaphor and Symbol, 27(1):4?21.Michael Israel, Jennifer Riddle Harding, and Vera To-bin.
2004.
On simile.
Language, Culture, andMind.
CSLI Publications.George Lakoff and Mark Johson.
1980.
Metaphors WeLive By.
Ca?tedra.Bin Li, Jiajun Chen, and Yingjie Zhang.
2012.
Webbased collection and comparison of cognitive prop-erties in english and chinese.
In Proceedings ofthe Joint Workshop on Automatic Knowledge BaseConstruction and Web-scale Knowledge Extraction,AKBC-WEKEX ?12, pages 31?34, Stroudsburg,PA, USA.
Association for Computational Linguis-tics.Gilbert MacKay and Adrienne Shaw.
2004.
A com-parative study of figurative language in children withautistic spectrum disorders.
Child Language Teach-ing and Therapy, 20(1):13?32.Adam Meyers, Ralph Grishman, Michiko Kosaka, andShubin Zhao.
2001.
Covering treebanks with glarf.In Proceedings of the ACL 2001 Workshop on Shar-ing Tools and Resources - Volume 15, STAR ?01,pages 51?58, Stroudsburg, PA, USA.
Associationfor Computational Linguistics.Carlos Roncero, John M. Kennedy, and Ron Smyth.2006.
Similes on the internet have explanations.Psychonomic Bulletin & Review, 13:74?77.Gabriella Rundblad and Dagmara Annaz.
2010.
Theatypical development of metaphor and metonymycomprehension in children with autism.
Autism,14(1):29?46.John R Skoyles.
2011.
Autism, context/noncontextinformation processing, and atypical development.Autism research and treatment, 2011.G.J.
Steen, A.G. Dorst, and J.B. Herrmann.
2010.A Method for Linguistic Metaphor Identification:From Mip to Mipvu.
Converging evidence in lan-guage and communication research.
Benjamins.Irina Temnikova.
2012.
Text Complexity and Text Sim-plification in the Crisis Management domain.
Ph.D.thesis, University of Wolverhampton, Wolverhamp-ton, UK, May.Tony Veale and Yanfen Hao.
2008.
A context-sensitiveframework for lexical ontologies.
Knowledge Eng.Review, 23(1):101?115.Tony Veale and Yanfen Hao.
2011.
Exploiting ready-mades in linguistic creativity: A system demonstra-tion of the jigsaw bard.
In ACL (System Demonstra-tions), pages 14?19.
The Association for ComputerLinguistics.Tony Veale and Guofu Li.
2012.
Specifying viewpointand information need with affective metaphors: Asystem demonstration of the metaphor-magnet webapp/service.
In ACL (System Demonstrations),pages 7?12.
The Association for Computer Linguis-tics.Sanja S?tajner, Richard Evans, Constantin Orasan, andRuslan Mitkov.
2012.
What can readability mea-sures really tell us about text complexity?
InLuz Rello and Horacio Saggion, editors, Proceed-ings of the LREC?12 Workshop: Natural Lan-guage Processing for Improving Textual Accessibil-ity (NLP4ITA), page 14, Istanbul, Turkey, may.
Eu-ropean Language Resources Association (ELRA).E.
Judith Weiner.
1984.
A knowledge representationapproach to understanding metaphors.
Comput.
Lin-guist., 10(1):1?14, January.95
