Proceedings of the 51st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics, pages 109?114,Sofia, Bulgaria, August 4-9 2013. c?2013 Association for Computational LinguisticsA Visual Analytics System for Cluster ExplorationAndreas Lamprecht1, Annette Hautli2, Christian Rohrdantz1, Tina Bo?gel21Department of Computer Science, 2Department of LinguisticsUniversity of Konstanz, Germany{firstname.lastname}@uni-konstanz.deAbstractThis paper offers a new way of represent-ing the results of automatic clustering al-gorithms by employing a Visual Analyticssystem which maps members of a clusterand their distance to each other onto a two-dimensional space.
A case study on Urducomplex predicates shows that the systemallows for an appropriate investigation oflinguistically motivated data.1 MotivationIn recent years, Visual Analytics systems have in-creasingly been used for the investigation of lin-guistic phenomena in a number of different areas,starting from literary analysis (Keim and Oelke,2007) to the cross-linguistic comparison of lan-guage features (Mayer et al 2010a; Mayer et al2010b; Rohrdantz et al 2012a) and lexical se-mantic change (Rohrdantz et al 2011; Heylen etal., 2012; Rohrdantz et al 2012b).
Visualizationhas also found its way into the field of computa-tional linguistics by providing insights into meth-ods such as machine translation (Collins et al2007; Albrecht et al 2009) or discourse parsing(Zhao et al 2012).One issue in computational linguistics is theinterpretability of results coming from machinelearning algorithms and the lack of insight theyoffer on the underlying data.
This drawback of-ten prevents theoretical linguists, who work withcomputational models and need to see patterns onlarge data sets, from drawing detailed conclusions.The present paper shows that a Visual Analyticssystem facilitates ?analytical reasoning [...] by aninteractive visual interface?
(Thomas and Cook,2006) and helps resolving this issue by offeringa customizable, in-depth view on the statisticallygenerated result and simultaneously an at-a-glanceoverview of the overall data set.In particular, we focus on the visual representa-tion of automatically generated clusters, in itselfnot a novel idea as it has been applied in otherfields like the financial sector, biology or geogra-phy (Schreck et al 2009).
But as far as the litera-ture is concerned, interactive systems are still lesscommon, particularly in computational linguistics,and they have not been designed for the specificneeds of theoretical linguists.
This paper offersa method of visually encoding clusters and theirinternal coherence with an interactive user inter-face, which allows users to adjust underlying pa-rameters and their views on the data depending onthe particular research question.
By this, we partlyopen up the ?black box?
of machine learning.The linguistic phenomenon under investigation,for which the system has originally been designed,is the varied behavior of nouns in N+V CP com-plex predicates in Urdu (e.g., memory+do = ?toremember?)
(Mohanan, 1994; Ahmed and Butt,2011), where, depending on the lexical seman-tics of the noun, a set of different light verbs ischosen to form a complex predicate.
The aim isan automatic detection of the different groups ofnouns, based on their light verb distribution.
Buttet al(2012) present a static visualization for thephenomenon, whereas the present paper proposesan interactive system which alleviates some of theprevious issues with respect to noise detection, fil-tering, data interaction and cluster coherence.
Forthis, we proceed as follows: section 2 explains theproposed Visual Analytics system, followed by thelinguistic case study in section 3.
Section 4 con-cludes the paper.2 The systemThe system requires a plain text file as input,where each line corresponds to one data object.Inour case, each line corresponds to one Urdu noun(data object) and contains its unique ID (the nameof the noun) and its bigram frequencies with the109four light verbs under investigation, namely kar?do?, ho ?be?, hu ?become?
and rakH ?put?
; an ex-emplary input file is shown in Figure 1.From a data analysis perspective, we have four-dimensional data objects, where each dimensioncorresponds to a bigram frequency previously ex-tracted from a corpus.
Note that more thanfour dimensions can be loaded and analyzed, butfor the sake of simplicity we focus on the four-dimensional Urdu example for the remainder ofthis paper.
Moreover, it is possible to load filescontaining absolute bigram frequencies and rela-tive frequencies.
When loading absolute frequen-cies, the program will automatically calculate therelative frequencies as they are the input for theclustering.
The absolute frequencies, however, arestill available and can be used for further process-ing (e.g.
filtering).Figure 1: preview of appropriate file structures2.1 Initial opening and processing of a fileIt is necessary to define a metric distance functionbetween data objects for both clustering and vi-sualization.
Thus, each data object is representedthrough a high dimensional (in our example four-dimensional) numerical vector and we use the Eu-clidean distance to calculate the distances betweenpairs of data objects.
The smaller the distance be-tween two data objects, the more similar they are.For visualization, the high dimensional datais projected onto the two-dimensional space ofa computer screen using a principal componentanalysis (PCA) algorithm1.
In the 2D projection,the distances between data objects in the high-dimensional space, i.e.
the dissimilarities of thebigram distributions, are preserved as accuratelyas possible.
However, when projecting a high-dimensional data space onto a lower dimension,some distinctions necessarily level out: two dataobjects may be far apart in the high-dimensionalspace, but end up closely together in the 2D pro-jection.
It is important to bear in mind that the 2Dvisualization is often quite insightful, but interpre-1http://workshop.mkobos.com/2011/java-pca-transformation-library/tations have to be verified by interactively investi-gating the data.The initial clusters are calculated (in the high-dimensional data space) using a default k-Meansalgorithm2 with k being a user-defined parameter.There is also the option of selecting another clus-tering algorithm, called the Greedy Variance Min-imization3 (GVM), and an extension to include fur-ther algorithms is under development.2.2 Configuration & Interaction2.2.1 The main windowThe main window in Figure 2 consists of threeareas, namely the configuration area (a), the vi-sualization area (b) and the description area (c).The visualization area is mainly built with the pic-colo2d library4 and initially shows data objectsas colored circles with a variable diameter, wherecolor indicates cluster membership (four clustersin this example).
Hovering over a dot displays in-formation on the particular noun, the cluster mem-bership and the light verb distribution in the de-scription area to the right.
By using the mousewheel, the user can zoom in and out of the visual-ization.A very important feature for the task at hand isthe possibility to select multiple data objects forfurther processing or for filtering, with a list of se-lected data objects shown in the description area.By right-clicking on these data objects, the usercan assign a unique class (and class color) to them.Different clustering methods can be employed us-ing the options item in the menu bar.Another feature of the system is that the usercan fade in the cluster centroids (illustrated by alarger dot in the respective cluster color in Fig-ure 2), where the overall feature distribution of thecluster can be examined in a tooltip hovering overthe corresponding centroid.2.2.2 Visually representing data objectsTo gain further insight into the data distributionbased on the 2D projection, the user can choosebetween several ways to visualize the individualdata objects, all of which are shown in Figure 3.The standard visualization type is shown on theleft and consists of a circle which encodes clustermembership via color.2http://java-ml.sourceforge.net/api/0.1.7/ (From the JMLlibrary)3http://www.tomgibara.com/clustering/fast-spatial/4http://www.piccolo2d.org/110Figure 2: Overview of the main window of the system, including the configuration area (a), the visual-ization area (b) and the description area (c).
Large circles are cluster centroids.Figure 3: Different visualizations of data pointsAlternatively, normal glyphs and star glyphscan be displayed.
The middle part of Figure 3shows the data displayedwith normal glyphs.
Inthis view, the relativefrequency of each lightverb is mapped onto thelength of a line.
Thelines start in north position and are positionedclockwise around the center according to theiroccurrence in the input file.
This view has theadvantage that overall feature dominance in acluster can be seen at-a-glance.The visualization typeon the right in Figure 3is called the star glyph,an extension to normalglyphs.
Here, the lineendings are connected,forming a ?star?.
As in the representation withthe glyphs, this makes similar data objects easilyrecognizable and comparable with each other.2.2.3 Filtering optionsOur systems offers options for filtering data ac-cording to different criteria.Filter by means of bigram occurrence By ac-tivating the bigram occurrence filtering, it is pos-sible to only show those nouns, which occur in bi-grams with a certain selected subset of all features(light verbs) only.
This is especially useful whenexamining possible commonalities.Filter selected words Another opportunity ofshowing only items of interest is to select and dis-play them separately.
The PCA is recalculated forthese data objects and the visualization is stretchedto the whole area.111Filter selected cluster Additionally, the usercan visualize a specific cluster of interest.
Again,the PCA is recalculated and the visualizationstretched to the whole area.
The cluster can thenbe manually fine-tuned and cleaned, for instanceby removing wrongly assigned items.2.2.4 Options to handle overplottingDue to the nature of the data, much overplottingoccurs.
For example, there are many words, whichonly occur with one light verb.
The PCA assignsthe same position to these words and, as a conse-quence, only the top bigram can be viewed in thevisualization.
In order to improve visual access tooverplotted data objects, several methods that al-low for a more differentiated view of the data havebeen included and are described in the followingparagraphs.Change transparency of data objects By mod-ifying the transparency with the given slider, areaswith a dense data population can be readily identi-fied, as shown in the following example:Repositioning of data objects To reduce theoverplotting in densely populated areas, data ob-jects can be repositioned randomly having a fixeddeviation from their initial position.
The degree ofdeviation can be interactively determined by theuser employing the corresponding slider:The user has the option to reposition either alldata objects or only those that are selected in ad-vance.Frequency filtering If the initial data containsabsolute bigram frequencies, the user can filterthe visualized words by frequency.
For example,many nouns occur only once and therefore havean observed probability of 100% for co-occurringwith one of the light verbs.
In most cases it is use-ful to filter such data out.Scaling data objects If the user zooms beyondthe maximum zoom factor, the data objects arescaled down.
This is especially useful, if data ob-jects are only partly covered by many other ob-jects.
In this case, they become fully visible, asshown in the following example:2.3 Alternative views on the dataIn order to enable a holistic analysis it is oftenvaluable to provide the user with different viewson the data.
Consequently, we have integrated theoption to explore the data with further standard vi-sualization methods.2.3.1 Correlation matrixThe correlation matrix in Figure 4 shows the corre-lations between features, which are visualized bycircles using the following encoding: The size ofa circle represents the correlation strength and thecolor indicates whether the corresponding featuresare negatively (white) or positively (black) corre-lated.Figure 4: example of a correlation matrix2.3.2 Parallel coordinatesThe parallel coordinates diagram shows the distri-bution of the bigram frequencies over the differ-ent dimensions (Figure 5).
Every noun is repre-sented with a line, and shows, when hovered over,a tooltip with the most important information.
Tofilter the visualized words, the user has the optionof displaying previously selected data objects, ors/he can restrict the value range for a feature andshow only the items which lie within this range.2.3.3 Scatter plot matrixTo further examine the relation between pairs offeatures, a scatter plot matrix can be used (Figure6).
The individual scatter plots give further insightinto the correlation details of pairs of features.112Figure 5: Parallel coordinates diagramFigure 6: Example showing a scatter plot matrix.3 Case studyIn principle, the Visual Analytics system presentedabove can be used for any kind of cluster visu-alization, but the built-in options and add-ons areparticularly designed for the type of work that lin-guists tend to be interested in: on the one hand, theuser wants to get a quick overview of the overallpatterns in the phenomenon, but on the same time,the system needs to allow for an in-depth data in-spection.
Both is given in the system: The overallcluster result shown in Figure 2 depicts the coher-ence of clusters and therefore the overall patternof the data set.
The different glyph visualizationsin Figure 3 illustrate the properties of each clus-ter.
Single data points can be inspected in the de-scription area.
The randomization of overplotteddata points helps to see concentrated cluster pat-terns where light verbs behave very similarly indifferent noun+verb complex predicates.The biggest advantage of the system lies in theability for interaction: Figure 7 shows an exampleof the visualization used in Butt et al(2012), theinput being the same text file as shown in Figure1.
In this system, the relative frequencies of eachnoun with each light verb is correlated with colorsaturation ?
the more saturated the color to theright of the noun, the higher the relative frequencyof the light verb occurring with it.
The number ofthe cluster (here, 3) and the respective nouns (e.g.kAm ?work?)
is shown to the left.
The user doesnot get information on the coherence of the clus-ter, nor does the visualization show prototypicalcluster patterns.Figure 7: Cluster visualization in Butt et al(2012)Moreover, the system in Figure 7 only has alimited set of interaction choices, with the conse-quence that the user is not able to adjust the un-derlying data set, e.g.
by filtering out noise.
How-ever, Butt et al(2012) report that the Urdu datais indeed very noisy and requires a manual clean-ing of the data set before the actual clustering.
Inthe system presented here, the user simply marksconspicuous regions in the visualization panel andremoves the respective data points from the origi-nal data set.
Other filtering mechanisms, e.g.
theremoval of low frequency items which occur dueto data sparsity issues, can be removed from theoverall data set by adjusting the parameters.A linguistically-relevant improvement lies inthe display of cluster centroids, in other words thetypical noun + light verb distribution of a cluster.This is particularly helpful when the linguist wantsto pick out prototypical examples for the clusterin order to stipulate generalizations over the othercluster members.1134 ConclusionIn this paper, we present a novel visual analyt-ics system that helps to automatically analyze bi-grams extracted from corpora.
The main purposeis to enable a more informed and steered clus-ter analysis than currently possible with standardmethods.
This includes rich options for interac-tion, e.g.
display configuration or data manipu-lation.
Initially, the approach was motivated bya concrete research problem, but has much widerapplicability as any kind of high-dimensional nu-merical data objects can be loaded and analyzed.However, the system still requires some basic un-derstanding about the algorithms applied for clus-tering and projection in order to prevent the user todraw wrong conclusions based on artifacts.
Bear-ing this potential pitfall in mind when performingthe analysis, the system enables a much more in-sightful and informed analysis than standard non-interactive methods.In the future, we aim to conduct user experi-ments in order to learn more about how the func-tionality and usability could be further enhanced.AcknowledgmentsThis work was partially funded by the Ger-man Research Foundation (DFG) under grantBU 1806/7-1 ?Visual Analysis of LanguageChange and Use Patterns?
and the German Fed-eral Ministry of Education and Research (BMBF)under grant 01461246 ?VisArgue?
under researchgrant.ReferencesTafseer Ahmed and Miriam Butt.
2011.
Discover-ing Semantic Classes for Urdu N-V Complex Pred-icates.
In Proceedings of the international Con-ference on Computational Semantics (IWCS 2011),pages 305?309.Joshua Albrecht, Rebecca Hwa, and G. ElisabetaMarai.
2009.
The Chinese Room: Visualizationand Interaction to Understand and Correct Ambigu-ous Machine Translation.
Comput.
Graph.
Forum,28(3):1047?1054.Miriam Butt, Tina Bo?gel, Annette Hautli, SebastianSulger, and Tafseer Ahmed.
2012.
Identifying UrduComplex Predication via Bigram Extraction.
In InProceedings of COLING 2012, Technical Papers,pages 409 ?
424, Mumbai, India.Christopher Collins, M. Sheelagh T. Carpendale, andGerald Penn.
2007.
Visualization of Uncertaintyin Lattices to Support Decision-Making.
In EuroVis2007, pages 51?58.
Eurographics Association.Kris Heylen, Dirk Speelman, and Dirk Geeraerts.2012.
Looking at word meaning.
An interactivevisualization of Semantic Vector Spaces for Dutchsynsets.
In Proceedings of the EACL 2012 JointWorkshop of LINGVIS & UNCLH, pages 16?24.Daniel A. Keim and Daniela Oelke.
2007.
Litera-ture Fingerprinting: A New Method for Visual Liter-ary Analysis.
In IEEE VAST 2007, pages 115?122.IEEE.Thomas Mayer, Christian Rohrdantz, Miriam Butt,Frans Plank, and Daniel A. Keim.
2010a.
Visualiz-ing Vowel Harmony.
Linguistic Issues in LanguageTechnology, 4(Issue 2):1?33, December.Thomas Mayer, Christian Rohrdantz, Frans Plank, Pe-ter Bak, Miriam Butt, and Daniel A. Keim.
2010b.Consonant Co-Occurrence in Stems across Lan-guages: Automatic Analysis and Visualization ofa Phonotactic Constraint.
In Proceedings of the2010Workshop on NLP and Linguistics: Finding theCommon Ground, pages 70?78, Uppsala, Sweden,July.
Association for Computational Linguistics.Tara Mohanan.
1994.
Argument Structure in Hindi.Stanford: CSLI Publications.Christian Rohrdantz, Annette Hautli, Thomas Mayer,Miriam Butt, Frans Plank, and Daniel A. Keim.2011.
Towards Tracking Semantic Change by Vi-sual Analytics.
In ACL 2011 (Short Papers), pages305?310, Portland, Oregon, USA, June.
Associationfor Computational Linguistics.Christian Rohrdantz, Michael Hund, Thomas Mayer,Bernhard Wa?lchli, and Daniel A. Keim.
2012a.
TheWorld?s Languages Explorer: Visual Analysis ofLanguage Features in Genealogical and Areal Con-texts.
Computer Graphics Forum, 31(3):935?944.Christian Rohrdantz, Andreas Niekler, Annette Hautli,Miriam Butt, and Daniel A. Keim.
2012b.
Lexi-cal Semantics and Distribution of Suffixes - A Vi-sual Analysis.
In Proceedings of the EACL 2012Joint Workshop of LINGVIS & UNCLH, pages 7?15,April.Tobias Schreck, Ju?rgen Bernard, Tatiana von Landes-berger, and Jo?rn Kohlhammer.
2009.
Visual clusteranalysis of trajectory data with interactive kohonenmaps.
Information Visualization, 8(1):14?29.James J. Thomas and Kristin A. Cook.
2006.
A VisualAnalytics Agenda.
IEEE Computer Graphics andApplications, 26(1):10?13.Jian Zhao, Fanny Chevalier, Christopher Collins, andRavin Balakrishnan.
2012.
Facilitating DiscourseAnalysis with Interactive Visualization.
IEEETrans.
Vis.
Comput.
Graph., 18(12):2639?2648.114
