Proceedings of the 51st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics, pages 7?12,Sofia, Bulgaria, August 4-9 2013. c?2013 Association for Computational LinguisticsA Stacking-based Approach to Twitter User Geolocation PredictionBo Han,??
Paul Cook,?
and Timothy Baldwin???
NICTA Victoria Research Laboratory?
Department of Computing and Information Systems, The University of Melbournehanb@student.unimelb.edu.au, paulcook@unimelb.edu.au,tb@ldwin.netAbstractWe implement a city-level geolocationprediction system for Twitter users.
Thesystem infers a user?s location based onboth tweet text and user-declared metadatausing a stacking approach.
We demon-strate that the stacking method substan-tially outperforms benchmark methods,achieving 49% accuracy on a benchmarkdataset.
We further evaluate our methodon a recent crawl of Twitter data to in-vestigate the impact of temporal factorson model generalisation.
Our results sug-gest that user-declared location metadatais more sensitive to temporal change thanthe text of Twitter messages.
We also de-scribe two ways of accessing/demoing oursystem.1 IntroductionIn this paper, we present and evaluate a geoloca-tion prediction method for Twitter users.1 Givena user?s tweet data as input, the task of user levelgeolocation prediction is to infer a primary loca-tion (i.e., ?home location?
: Mahmud et al(2012))for the user from a discrete set of pre-defined loca-tions (Cheng et al 2010).
For instance, PresidentObama?s location might be predicted to be Wash-ington D.C., USA, based on his public tweets andprofile metadata.Geolocation information is essential to location-based applications, like targeted advertising andlocal event detection (Sakaki et al 2010;MacEachren et al 2011).
However, the meansto obtain such information are limited.
AlthoughTwitter allows users to specify a plain text de-scription of their location in their profile, these de-scriptions tend to be ad hoc and unreliable (Cheng1We only use public Twitter data for experiments and ex-emplification in this study.et al 2010).
Recently, user geolocation predic-tion based on a user?s tweets has become popular(Wing and Baldridge, 2011; Roller et al 2012),based on the assumption that tweets implicitlycontain locating information, and with appropri-ate statistical modeling, the true location can beinferred.
For instance, if a user frequently men-tions NYC, JFK and yankees, it is likely that theyare from New York City, USA.In this paper, we discuss an implementation ofa global city-level geolocation prediction systemfor English Twitter users.
The system utilises bothtweet text and public profile metadata for model-ing and inference.
Specifically, we train multino-mial Bayes classifiers based on location indica-tive words (LIWs) in tweets (Han et al 2012),and user-declared location and time zone meta-data.
These base classifiers are further stacked(Wolpert, 1992) using logistic regression as themeta-classifier.
The proposed stacking model iscompared with benchmarks on a public geolo-cation dataset.
Experimental results demonstratethat our stacking model outperforms benchmarkmethods by a large margin, achieving 49% accu-racy on the test data.
We further evaluate the stack-ing model on a more recent crawl of public tweets.This experiment tests the effectiveness of a geolo-cation model trained on ?old?
data when applied to?new?
data.
The results reveal that user-declaredlocations are more variable over time than tweettext and time zone data.2 Background and Related WorkIdentifying the geolocation of objects has beenwidely studied in the research literature over targetobjects including webpages (Zong et al 2005),search queries (Backstrom et al 2008), Flickr im-ages (Crandall et al 2009) and Wikipedia ed-itors (Lieberman and Lin, 2009).
Recently, aconsiderable amount of work has been devotedto extending geolocation prediction for Twitter7users (Cheng et al 2010; Eisenstein et al 2010).The geolocations are usually represented by un-ambiguous city names or a partitioning of theearth?s surface (e.g., grid cells specified by lati-tude/longitude).
User geolocation is generally re-lated to a ?home?
location where a user regularlyresides, and user mobility is ignored.
Twitter al-lows users to declare their home locations in plaintext in their profile, however, this data has beenfound to be unstructured and ad hoc in preliminaryresearch (Cheng et al 2010; Hecht et al 2011).While popular for desktop machine geoloca-tion, methods that map IP addresses to physicallocations (Buyukokkten et al 1999) cannot beapplied to Twitter-based user geolocation, as IPsare only known to the service provider and arenon-trivial to retrieve in a mobile Internet environ-ment.
Although social network information hasbeen proven effective in inferring user locations(Backstrom et al 2010; Sadilek et al 2012; Routet al 2013), we focus exclusively on messageand metadata information in this paper, as they aremore readily accessible.Text data tends to contain salient geospatial ex-pressions that are particular to specific regions.Attempts to leverage this data directly have beenbased on analysis of gazetted expressions (Leid-ner and Lieberman, 2011) or the identification ofgeographical entities (Quercini et al 2010; Qin etal., 2003).
However these methods are limited intheir ability to capture informal geospatial expres-sions (e.g.
Brissie for Brisbane) and more non-geospatial terms which are associated with partic-ular locations (e.g.
ferry for Seattle or Sydney).Beyond identifying geographical references us-ing off-the-shelf tools, more sophisticated meth-ods have been introduced in the social mediarealm.
Cheng et al(2010) built a simple gen-erative model based on tweet words, and fur-ther added words which are local to particular re-gions and applied smoothing to under-representedlocations.
Kinsella et al(2011) applied differ-ent similarity measures to the task, and investi-gated the relative difficulty of geolocation predic-tion at city, state, and country levels.
Wing andBaldridge (2011) introduced a grid-based repre-sentation for geolocation modeling and inferencebased on fixed latitude and longitude values, andaggregated all tweets in a single cell.
Their ap-proach was then based on lexical similarity us-ing KL-divergence.
One drawback to the uniform-sized cell representation is that it introduces classimbalance: urban areas tend to contain far moretweets than rural areas.
Based on this observa-tion, Roller et al(2012) introduced an adaptivegrid representation in which cells contain approx-imately the same number of users, based on a KD-tree partition.
Given that most tweets are fromurban areas, Han et al(2012) consider a city-based class division, and explore different featureselection methods to extract ?location indicativewords?, which they show to improve predictionaccuracy.
Additionally, time zone information hasbeen incorporated in a coarse-to-fine hierarchicalmodel by first determining the time zone, and thendisambiguating locations within it (Mahmud et al2012).
Topic models have also been applied to thetask, in capturing regional linguistic differences(Eisenstein et al 2010; Yin et al 2011; Hong etal., 2012).When designing a practical geolocation sys-tem, simple models such as naive Bayes and near-est prototype methods (e.g., based on KL diver-gence) have clear advantages in terms of train-ing and classification throughput, given the size ofthe class set (often numbering in the thousands ofclasses) and sheer volume of training data (poten-tially in the terabytes of data).
This is particularlyimportant for online systems and downstream ap-plications that require timely predictions.
As such,we build off the text-based naive Bayes-based ge-olocation system of Han et al(2012), which ourexperiments have shown to have a good balance oftractability and accuracy.
By selecting a reducedset of ?location indicative words?, prediction canbe further accelerated.3 MethodologyIn this study, we adopt the same city-based rep-resentation and multinomial naive Bayes learneras Han et al(2012).
The city-based representa-tion consists of 3,709 cities throughout the world,and is obtained by aggregating smaller cities withthe largest nearby city.
Han et al(2012) foundthat using feature selection to identify ?locationindicative words?
led to improvements in geoloca-tion performance.
We use the same feature selec-tion technique that they did.
Specifically, featureselection is based on information gain ratio (IGR)(Quinlan, 1993) over the city-based label set foreach word.In the original research of Han et al(2012),8only the text of Twitter messages was used,and training was based exclusively on geotaggedtweets, despite these accounting for only around1% of the total public data on Twitter.
In thisresearch, we include additional non-geotaggedtweets (e.g., posted from a non-GPS enabled de-vice) for those users who have geotagged tweets(allowing us to determine a home location for theuser).In addition to including non-geotagged data inmodeling and inference, we further take advan-tage of the text-based metadata embedded in auser?s public profile (and included in the JSON ob-ject for each tweet).
This metadata is potentiallycomplementary to the tweet message and of bene-fit for geolocation prediction, especially the user-declared location and time zone, which we con-sider here.
Note that these are in free text ratherthan a structured data format, and that while thereare certainly instances of formal place name de-scriptions (e.g., Edinburgh, UK), they are ofteninformal (e.g., mel for Melbourne).
As such, weadopt a statistical approach to model each selectedmetadata field, by capturing the text in the formof character 4-grams, and training a multinomialnaive Bayes classifier for each field.To combine together the tweet text and meta-data fields, we use stacking (Wolpert, 1992).
Thetraining of stacking consists of two steps.
First,a multinomial naive Bayes base classifier (L0) islearned for each data type using 10-fold crossvalidation.
This is carried out for the tweettext (TEXT), user-declared location (MB-LOC) anduser-declared time zone (MB-TZ).
Next, a meta-classifier (L1 classifier) is trained over the baseclassifiers, using a logistic regression learner (Fanet al 2008).4 Evaluation and DiscussionIn this section, we compare our proposed stack-ing approach with existing benchmarks on a publicdataset, and investigate the impact of time using arecently collected dataset.4.1 Evaluation MeasuresIn line with other work on user geolocation pre-diction, we use three evaluation measures:?
Acc : The percentage of correct city-levelpredictions.?
Acc@161 : The percentage of predicted lo-cations which are within a 161km (100 mile)Methods Acc Acc@161 MedianKL .117 .277 793MB .126 .262 913KL-NG .260 .487 181MB-NG .280 .492 170MB-LOC .405 .525 92MB-TZ .064 .171 1330STACKING .490 .665 9Table 1: Results over WORLDradius of the home location (Cheng et al2010), to capture near-misses (e.g., Edin-burgh UK being predicted as Glasgow, UK).?
Median : The median distance from the pre-dicted city to the home location (Eisenstein etal., 2010).4.2 Comparison with BenchmarksWe base our evaluation on the publicly-availableWORLD dataset of Han et al(2012).
The datasetcontains 1.4M users whose tweets are primarilyidentified as English based on the output of thelangid.py language identification tool (Lui andBaldwin, 2012), and who have posted at least 10geotagged tweets.
The city-level home locationfor a geotagged user is determined as follows.First, each of a user?s geotagged tweets is mappedto its nearest city (based on the same set of 3,709cities used for the city-based location representa-tion).
Then, the most frequent city for a user isselected as the home location.To benchmark our method, we reimplementtwo recently-published state-of-the-art methods:(1) the KL-divergence nearest prototype methodof Roller et al(2012) based on KD-tree parti-tioned grid cells, which we denote as KL; and(2) the multinomial naive Bayes city-level geolo-cation model of Han et al(2012), which we de-note as MB.
Because of the different class repre-sentations, Acc numbers are not comparable be-tween the benchmarks.
To remedy this, we findthe closest city to the centroid of each grid cell inthe KD-tree representation, and map the classifi-cation onto this city.
We present results includingnon-geotagged data for users with geotagged mes-sages for the two methods, as KL-NG and MB-NG, respectively.
We also present results basedon the user-declared location (MB-LOC) and timezone (MB-TZ), and finally the stacking method(STACKING) which combines MB-NG, MB-LOCand MB-TZ.
The results are shown in Table 1.9The approximate doubling of Acc for KL-NG and MB-NG over KL and MB, respectively,demonstrates the high utility of non-geotaggeddata in tweet text-based geolocation prediction.Of the two original models, we can see that MBis comparable to KL, in line with the findings ofHan et al(2012).
The MB-LOC results are by farthe highest of all the base classifiers.
Contrary tothe suggestion of Cheng et al(2010) that user-declared locations are too unreliable to use for usergeolocation, we find evidence indicating that theyare indeed a valuable source of information for thistask.
The best overall results are achieved for thestacking approach (STACKING), assigning almosthalf of the test users to the correct city-level lo-cation, and improving more than four-fold on theprevious-best accuracy (i.e., MB).
These resultsalso suggest that there is strong complementaritybetween user metadata and tweet text.4.3 Evaluation on Time-Heterogeneous DataIn addition to the original held-out test data(WORLDtest) from WORLD, we also developed anew geotagged evaluation dataset using the Twit-ter Streaming API.2 This new LIVEtest dataset isintended to evaluate the impact of time on predic-tive accuracy.
The training and test data in WORLDare time-homogeneous as they are randomly sam-pled from data collected in a relatively narrow timewindow.
In contrast, LIVEtest is much newer, col-lected more than 1 year later than WORLD.
Giventhat Twitter users and topics change over time, anessential question is whether the statistical modellearned from the ?old?
training data is still effec-tive over the ?new?
test data?The LIVEtest data was collected over 48 hoursfrom 2013/03/03 to 2013/03/05.
By selectingusers with at least 10 geotagged tweets and a de-clared language of English, 55k users were ob-tained.
For each user, their recent status updateswere aggregated, and non-English users were fil-tered out based on the language predictions oflangid.py.
For some users with geotaggedtweets from many cities, the most frequent citymight not be an appropriate representation of theirhome location for evaluation.
To improve the eval-uation data quality, we therefore exclude userswho have less than 50% of their geotagged tweetsoriginating from a single city.
After filtering, 32k2https://dev.twitter.com/docs/api/1.1/get/statuses/sampleLIVEtest Acc Acc@161 MedianMB-NG .268 (?.012) .510 (?.018) 151 ( ?19)MB-LOC .326 (?.079) .465 (?.060) 306 (+214)MB-TZ .065 (+.001) .160 (?.011) 1529 (+199)STACKING .406 (?.084) .614 (?.051) 40 ( +31)Table 2: Results over LIVEtest, and the absolutefluctuation over the results for WORLDtestusers were obtained, forming the final LIVEtestdataset.
In the final LIVEtest, the smallest classhas only one test user, and the largest class has569 users.
The mean users per city is 27.76.The results over LIVEtest, and the differencein absolute score over WORLDtest, are shown inTable 2.
The stacked model accuracy numbersdrop 5?8% on LIVEtest, and the median errordistance increases moderately by 31km.
Over-all, the numbers suggest inference on WORLDtest,which is time-homogenous with the training data(taken from WORLD), is an easier classificationthan LIVEtest, which is time-heterogeneous withthe training data.
Training on ?old?
data and test-ing on ?new?
data is certainly possible, however.Looking over the results of the base classifiers, wecan see that the biggest hit is for MB-LOC clas-sifier.
In contrast, the accuracy for MB-NG andMB-TZ is relatively stable (other than the sharp in-crease in the median error distance for MB-TZ).5 Architecture and AccessIn this section, we describe the architecture of theproposed geolocation system, as well as two waysof accessing the live system.3 The core structureof the system consists of two parts: (1) the inter-face; (2) the back-end geolocation service.We offer two interfaces to access the system: aTwitter bot and a web interface.
The Twitter botaccount is: @MELBLTFSD.
A daemon process de-tects any user mentions of the bot in tweets viakeyword matching through the Twitter search API.The screen name of the tweet author is extractedand sent to the back-end geolocation service, andthe predicted user geolocation is sent to the Twitteruser in a direct message, as shown in Figure 1.Web access is via http://hum.csse.unimelb.edu.au:9000/geo.html.
Users can input a Twit-ter user screen name through the web interface,whereby a call is made to the back-end geoloca-tion service to geolocate that user.
The geoloca-3The source code is available from https://github.com/tq010or/acl201310Figure 2: Web interface for user geolocation.
The numbered green markers represent geotagged tweets.These coordinates are utilised to validate our predictions, and are not used in the geolocation process.The red marker is the predicted city-based user geolocation.Figure 1: Twitter bot interface.
When the Twit-ter bot is mentioned in a tweet, that user is sent adirect message with the predicted geolocation.tion results are rendered on a map (along with anygeotagged tweets for the user) as in Figure 2.4The back-end geolocation service crawls recenttweets for a given user in real time,5 and wordand n-gram features are extracted from both thetext and the user metadata.
These features are sentto the L0 classifiers (TEXT, MB-LOC and MB-TZ),and the L0 results are further fed into the L1 clas-sifier for the final prediction.6 Summary and Future WorkIn this paper, we presented a city-level geoloca-tion prediction system for Twitter users.
Over apublic dataset, our stacking method ?
exploitingboth tweet text and user metadata ?
substantially4Currently, only Google Chrome is supported.
https://www.google.com/intl/en/chrome/5Up to 200 tweets are crawled, the upper bound of mes-sages returned per single request based on Twitter API v1.1.outperformed benchmark methods.
We furtherevaluated model generalisation on a newer, time-heterogeneous dataset.
The overall results de-creased by 5?8% in accuracy, compared with num-bers on time-homogeneous data, primarily due tothe poor generalisation of the MB-LOC classifier.In future work, we plan to further investigatethe cause of the MB-LOC classifier accuracy de-crease on the new dataset.
In addition, we?d liketo study differences in prediction accuracy acrosscities.
For cities with reliable predictions, the sys-tem can be adapted as a preprocessing module fordownstream applications, e.g., local event detec-tion based on users with reliable predictions.AcknowledgementsNICTA is funded by the Australian government asrepresented by Department of Broadband, Com-munication and Digital Economy, and the Aus-tralian Research Council through the ICT centreof Excellence programme.ReferencesLars Backstrom, Jon Kleinberg, Ravi Kumar, and Jas-mine Novak.
2008.
Spatial variation in search en-gine queries.
In Proc.
of WWW, pages 357?366,Beijing, China.Lars Backstrom, Eric Sun, and Cameron Marlow.2010.
Find me if you can: improving geographi-cal prediction with social and spatial proximity.
InProc.
of WWW, pages 61?70, Raleigh, USA.11Orkut Buyukokkten, Junghoo Cho, Hector Garcia-Molina, Luis Gravano, and Narayana Shivakumar.1999.
Exploiting geographical location informa-tion of web pages.
In ACM SIGMOD Workshop onThe Web and Databases, pages 91?96, Philadelphia,USA.Zhiyuan Cheng, James Caverlee, and Kyumin Lee.2010.
You are where you tweet: a content-basedapproach to geo-locating twitter users.
In Proc.
ofCIKM, pages 759?768, Toronto, Canada.David J. Crandall, Lars Backstrom, Daniel Hutten-locher, and Jon Kleinberg.
2009.
Mapping theworld?s photos.
In Proc.
of WWW, pages 761?770,Madrid, Spain.Jacob Eisenstein, Brendan O?Connor, Noah A. Smith,and Eric P. Xing.
2010.
A latent variable model forgeographic lexical variation.
In Proc.
of EMNLP,pages 1277?1287, Cambridge, MA, USA.Rong-En Fan, Kai-Wei Chang, Cho-Jui Hsieh, Xiang-Rui Wang, and Chih-Jen Lin.
2008.
LIBLINEAR:A library for large linear classification.
Journal ofMachine Learning Research, 9:1871?1874.Bo Han, Paul Cook, and Timothy Baldwin.
2012.
Ge-olocation prediction in social media data by find-ing location indicative words.
In Proc.
of COLING,pages 1045?1062, Mumbai, India.Brent Hecht, Lichan Hong, Bongwon Suh, and Ed H.Chi.
2011.
Tweets from justin bieber?s heart:the dynamics of the location field in user profiles.In Proc.
of SIGCHI, pages 237?246, Vancouver,Canada.Liangjie Hong, Amr Ahmed, Siva Gurumurthy,Alexander J. Smola, and Kostas Tsioutsiouliklis.2012.
Discovering geographical topics in the twit-ter stream.
In Proc.
of WWW, pages 769?778, Lyon,France.Sheila Kinsella, Vanessa Murdock, and Neil O?Hare.2011.
?I?m eating a sandwich in glasgow?
: mod-eling locations with tweets.
In Proc.
of the 3rd In-ternational Workshop on Search and Mining User-generated Contents, pages 61?68, Glasgow, UK.Jochen L. Leidner and Michael D. Lieberman.
2011.Detecting geographical references in the form ofplace names and associated spatial natural language.SIGSPATIAL Special, 3(2):5?11.Michael D. Lieberman and Jimmy Lin.
2009.
Youare where you edit: Locating wikipedia contributorsthrough edit histories.
In ICWSM.Marco Lui and Timothy Baldwin.
2012. langid.py: Anoff-the-shelf language identification tool.
In Proc.of the ACL, pages 25?30, Jeju Island, Korea.Alan M. MacEachren, Anuj Jaiswal, Anthony C.Robinson, Scott Pezanowski, Alexander Savelyev,Prasenjit Mitra, Xiao Zhang, and Justine Blanford.2011.
Senseplace2: Geotwitter analytics support forsituational awareness.
In IEEE Conference on Vi-sual Analytics Science and Technology, pages 181?190, Rhode Island, USA.Jalal Mahmud, Jeffrey Nichols, and Clemens Drews.2012.
Where is this tweet from?
inferring home lo-cations of twitter users.
In Proc.
of ICWSM, Dublin,Ireland.Teng Qin, Rong Xiao, Lei Fang, Xing Xie, and LeiZhang.
2003.
An efficient location extraction algo-rithm by leveraging web contextual information.
InProc.
of SIGSPATIAL, pages 55?62, San Jose, USA.Gianluca Quercini, Hanan Samet, Jagan Sankara-narayanan, and Michael D. Lieberman.
2010.
De-termining the spatial reader scopes of news sourcesusing local lexicons.
In Proc.
of the 18th Interna-tional Conference on Advances in Geographic In-formation Systems, pages 43?52, San Jose, USA.John Ross Quinlan.
1993.
C4.5: Programs for Ma-chine Learning.
Morgan Kaufmann, San Mateo,USA.Stephen Roller, Michael Speriosu, Sarat Rallapalli,Benjamin Wing, and Jason Baldridge.
2012.
Super-vised text-based geolocation using language mod-els on an adaptive grid.
In Proc.
of EMNLP, pages1500?1510, Jeju Island, Korea.Dominic Rout, Kalina Bontcheva, Daniel Preot?iuc-Pietro, and Trevor Cohn.
2013.
Where?s @wally?
:a classification approach to geolocating users basedon their social ties.
In Proc.
of the 24th ACM Con-ference on Hypertext and Social Media, pages 11?20, Paris, France.Adam Sadilek, Henry Kautz, and Jeffrey P. Bigham.2012.
Finding your friends and following them towhere you are.
In Proc.
of WSDM, pages 723?732,Seattle, USA.Takeshi Sakaki, Makoto Okazaki, and Yutaka Matsuo.2010.
Earthquake shakes twitter users: real-timeevent detection by social sensors.
In Proc.
of WWW,pages 851?860, Raleigh, USA.Benjamin P. Wing and Jason Baldridge.
2011.
Sim-ple supervised document geolocation with geodesicgrids.
In Proc.
of ACL, pages 955?964, Portland,USA.David H. Wolpert.
1992.
Stacked generalization.
Neu-ral Networks, 5(2):241?259.Zhijun Yin, Liangliang Cao, Jiawei Han, ChengxiangZhai, and Thomas Huang.
2011.
Geographicaltopic discovery and comparison.
In Proc.
of WWW,pages 247?256, Hyderabad, India.Wenbo Zong, Dan Wu, Aixin Sun, Ee-Peng Lim,and Dion Hoe-Lian Goh.
2005.
On assigningplace names to geography related web pages.
InACM/IEEE Joint Conference on Digital Libraries,pages 354?362.12
