Proceedings of the 51st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics, pages 43?48,Sofia, Bulgaria, August 4-9 2013. c?2013 Association for Computational LinguisticsExtending an interoperable platform to facilitate the creationof multilingual and multimodal NLP applicationsGeorgios Kontonatsios?, Paul Thompson?, Riza Theresa Batista-Navarro?,Claudiu Miha?ila?
?, Ioannis Korkontzelos and Sophia AnaniadouThe National Centre for Text Mining,School of Computer Science, The University of Manchester131 Princess Street, Manchester M1 7DN, UK{kontonag,batistar,thompsop,mihailac,korkonti,ananiads}@cs.man.ac.ukAbstractU-Compare is a UIMA-based workflowconstruction platform for building natu-ral language processing (NLP) applica-tions from heterogeneous language re-sources (LRs), without the need for pro-gramming skills.
U-Compare has beenadopted within the context of the META-NET Network of Excellence, and over40 LRs that process 15 European lan-guages have been added to the U-Comparecomponent library.
In line with META-NET?s aims of increasing communicationbetween citizens of different Europeancountries, U-Compare has been extendedto facilitate the development of a widerrange of applications, including both mul-tilingual and multimodal workflows.
Theenhancements exploit the UIMA Subjectof Analysis (Sofa) mechanism, that allowsdifferent facets of the input data to be rep-resented.
We demonstrate how our cus-tomised extensions to U-Compare allowthe construction and testing of NLP appli-cations that transform the input data in dif-ferent ways, e.g., machine translation, au-tomatic summarisation and text-to-speech.1 IntroductionCurrently, there are many repositories that con-tain a range of NLP components, e.g., OpenNLP1,Stanford CoreNLP2, JULIE NLP Toolsuite3 andNaCTeM software tools4.
The ability to chaincomponents from these repositories into pipelinesis a prerequisite to facilitate the development of?The authors have contributed equally to the developmentof this work and production of the manuscript.1http://opennlp.sourceforge.net/projects.html2http://nlp.stanford.edu/software/corenlp.shtml3http://www.julielab.de/Resources/Software/NLP Tools.html4http://nactem.ac.uk/software.phpcomplex NLP applications.
Combining togetherheterogeneous components is not, however, al-ways straightforward.
The various componentsused in a pipeline may be implemented using dif-ferent programming languages, may have incom-patible input/output formats, e.g., stand-off or in-line annotations, or may require or produce incom-patible data types, e.g., a particular named entityrecogniser (NER) may require specific types ofsyntactic constituents as input, making it impor-tant to choose the right type of syntactic parser torun prior to the NER.
Thus, the tools required tobuild a new application may not be interoperablewith each other, and considerable extra work maybe required to make the tools talk to each other.The Unstructured Information Management Ar-chitecture (UIMA) (Ferrucci and Lally, 2004) wascreated as a means to alleviate such problems.
Itis a framework that facilitates the straightforwardcombination of LRs, i.e., tools and corpora, intoworkflow applications.
UIMA is an OASIS stan-dard that enables interoperability of LRs by defin-ing a standard workflow metadata format and stan-dard input/output representations.U-Compare (Kano et al 2011) is a graphicalNLP workflow construction platform built on topof UIMA.
It facilitates the rapid construction, test-ing and evaluation of NLP workflows using drag-and-drop actions within its graphical user inter-face (GUI).
U-Compare enhances interoperabil-ity among UIMA-compliant LRs, by defining acommon and sharable Type System, i.e., a hier-archy of annotation types, which models a widerange of NLP data types, e.g., sentence, token,part-of-speech tag, named entity and discourseannotations.
The aim is for all components inU-Compare?s library to be compliant with thistype system.
In the context of META-NET, U-Compare?s library has been extended with 46 newLRs supporting 15 European languages, all ofwhich are compliant with the same type system.43This makes U-Compare the world?s largest repos-itory of type system-compatible LRs, allowingusers to seamlessly combine together resources tocreate a range of NLP applications.Previously, U-Compare was able to support thedevelopment of a wide range of monolingual lex-ical, syntactic and semantic processing tasks ap-plications that enriched textual input documentsby adding annotations of various types.
However,not all NLP applications operate in this way; someworkflows transform the input data to create new?views?
of the input data.
The META-NET projectaims to ensure equal access to information by allEuropean citizens.
This aim implies the devel-opment of both multilingual applications, whichtransform input data from one language into an-other, or multimodal applications, in which textmay be transformed into speech, or vice versa.U-Compare has been extended in several waysto support the construction of these more complexworkflow types.
Specifically, information aboutboth the original and transformed data, togetherwith annotations associated with each view, cannow be visualised in a straightforward manner.The changes support two new categories of work-flow.
Firstly, workflows that produce two or moretextual views of an input text are useful not onlyfor multilingual applications, such as those thatcarry out machine translation, but also applica-tions that transform the input text in other ways,such as those that produce a summary of an in-put text.
Secondly, workflows that output audio aswell as textual views, e.g., text-to-speech applica-tions, are also supported.2 Related workOver the past few years, an increasing num-bers of researchers have begun to create and dis-tribute their own workflow construction architec-tures (Ferrucci and Lally, 2004; Cunningham etal., 2002; Grishman et al 1997; Scha?fer, 2006)or platforms (Kano et al 2011; Rak et al 2012;Ogrodniczuk and Karagiozov, 2011; Savova et al2010) that allow the rapid development of NLP ap-plications.GATE (Cunningham et al 2002) is a workflowconstruction framework that has been used to de-velop several types of NLP applications, includingsummarisation systems.
It facilitates the develop-ment of a wide range of NLP applications by pro-viding a collection of components that can processvarious languages, together with Java libraries thathandle character encoding for approximately 100languages.
However, GATE does not formally de-fine any standards to model multilingual or mul-timodal applications, but rather aims to boost thedevelopment process of NLP applications.TIPSTER (Grishman et al 1997) is a genericframework for the development of NLP applica-tions.
TIPSTER provides multilingual function-alities by associating text segments of a paral-lel document with one or more languages.
Thisallows language-dependent NLP components toprocess only the appropriate mono-lingual sub-documents.
However, TIPSTER does not provideexplicit guidelines regarding the annotation typesand attributes that are produced by components.This lack of a common and sharable system ofannotation types discourages interoperability be-tween LRs.
However, TIPSTER does not providea mechanism that facilitates the development ofmultilingual or multimodal NLP applications.Heart of Gold (Scha?fer, 2006) is an XML-based workflow construction architecture that en-ables interoperability of tools developed in dif-ferent programming languages to be combinedinto pipelines.
Heart of Gold contains a rich li-brary of shallow and deep parsing componentssupporting several languages, e.g., English, Ger-man, Japanese and Greek.
Nonetheless, Heart ofGold does not specifically support the constructionof multilingual or multimodal workflows.In contrast to the other frameworks introducedabove, UIMA (Ferrucci and Lally, 2004) providesan abstract-level mechanism that can be used tosupport the development of workflows that carryout transformations of the input data.
This mech-anism is called the Subject of Analysis or Sofa.Multiple Sofas can be linked with an input file,each of which stores different data and associ-ated annotations.
This mechanism can thus be ex-ploited to represent alternative ?views?
of the in-put data, such as a source text and its translation.The data stored in different Sofas is not restrictedto textual information; it can also correspond toother modalities, such as audio data.
This makesthe Sofa mechanism equally suitable for storingthe output of text-to-speech workflows.
Our ex-tensions to U-Compare are thus implemented byreading and displaying the contents of differenttypes of Sofas.The Sofa mechanism has previously been44under-exploited by UIMA developers, despite itspower in allowing more complex NLP workflowsto be constructed.
Indeed, no other existingUIMA-based platform (Kano et al 2011; Rak etal., 2012; Savova et al 2010; Hahn et al 2008)has demonstrated the use of Sofas to constructmultilingual or multimodal applications.
Thus, toour knowledge, our enhancements to U-Compareconstitute the first attempt to make the construc-tion of workflows that carry out transformations ofinput data more readily available to UIMA users,without the need for programming skills.3 METANET4U Components inU-CompareThe two dozen national and many regional lan-guages of Europe present linguistic barriers thatcan severely limit the free flow of goods, infor-mation and services.
The META-NET Networkof Excellence was created to respond to this is-sue.
Consisting of 60 research centres from 34countries, META-NET has aimed to stimulate aconcerted, substantial and continent-wide effort topush forward language technology research andengineering, in order to ensure equal access toinformation and knowledge for all European cit-izens.META-NET?s aims are dependent on the readyavailability of LRs that can carry out NLP andtext mining (TM) on a range of European lan-guages.
Such resources constitute the buildingblocks for constructing language technology ap-plications that can help European citizens to gaineasy access to the information they require.
Oneof the major outcomes of META-NET has beenthe development of META-SHARE, an open, dis-tributed facility for sharing and exchange of LRsin a large number of European languages.Within the context of META-NET, interoper-ability of LRs is clearly of utmost importance, toexpedite the process of developing new NLP ap-plications.
In order to provide a concrete demon-stration of the utility and power of promoting in-teroperability within META-SHARE, one of thesub-projects of META-NET, i.e., METANET4U,has carried out a pilot study on interoperability,making use of the UIMA framework and the U-Compare platform.
It is in this context that a setof 46 new LRs, available in META-SHARE, werewrapped as UIMA components and made avail-able in U-Compare.
Of these components, 37 op-erate on one or more specific languages other thanEnglish and 4 are language-independent.
Table 1shows the full set of categories of UIMA com-ponents created during the METANET4U project,together with the languages supported.Several of these new components output mul-tiple Sofas, i.e., two machine translation compo-nents, two automatic summarisation componentsand a text-to-speech component.
It is hoped thatour U-Compare extensions will help to stimulatethe development of a greater number of relatedUIMA components, and thus promote a new levelof complexity for future UIMA workflows.Component Function Supported LanguagesLanguage Identifier 54 modern languagesParagraph breaker pt, mtSentence splitter en, pt ,mt, es, ca, ast,cy, gl, itTokeniser en, pt, mt, es, ca, ast,cy, gl, it, frMorph.
Analyser en, pt, es, ca, ast,cy, gl, it, ro, eu, frPOS Tagger en, es, ca, cy, gl, it,pt, ro, eu, fr, mtSyntactic chunker en, es, ca, gl,ast, ro, frNP chunker roSegmenter ro, enFDG Parser roDependency Parser en, es, ca, gl, astDiscourse Parser roNER LanguageindependentSummariser ro, enMachine translation es?
{gl,pt,ca}en?es, eu?esTable 1: METANET4U UIMA components4 Enhancements to U-CompareIn UIMA, an artefact, i.e., raw text, audio, im-age, video, and its annotations, e.g., part-of-speech tags, are represented in a standard format,namely the Common Analysis Structure (CAS).A CAS can contain any number of smaller sub-CASes, i.e., Sofas, that carry different artefactswith their linked annotations.
Figure 1 illustratesthe different types of Sofas that are created by thethree types of workflows that we will demonstrate.Firstly, for a machine translation workflow, at least45Multi-lingualMulti-modalWorkflowsDocuments aZ ?
?CAS?CASCASSOFA SOFASOFA SOFASOFA SOFAFigure 1: UIMA based multilingual and multi-modal workflow architecturetwo CAS views, i.e., Sofas, are created, the firstcorresponding to the text in the source language,and the other Sofas corresponding to the transla-tion(s) of the source text into target language(s).The second type of workflow, i.e., automatic sum-marisation, is related to the former workflow, inthat the two Sofas produced by the workflow areboth textual, one containing the input text and onecontaining a summary of the original text.
Thethird type of workflow is different, in that a Sofacontaining audio data is used to represent the out-put of a multimodal workflow.Two specific extensions have been made to U-Compare to handle both textual and audio So-fas.
When the output of a workflow consists ofmultiple textual views (Sofas), the default anno-tation viewer is automatically split to allow mul-tiple views of the text to be displayed and side-by-side.
This can be useful, e.g., to allow carefulcomparison of a source text and target translationin a machine translation workflow.
To handle au-dio Sofas, we have developed a new, customisedviewer that can visualise and play audio data.
Thevisualisation consists of a graphical display of thewaveform, power information and spectrogram, aswell as segmentation of the audio data into re-gions (such as individual tokens) and transcrip-tions, if such information is present in the audioSofa.
The viewer makes use the open-source li-brary Java Speech Toolkit (JSTK)5.5 Workflow applicationsIn order to provide a practical demonstration ofthe enhanced capabilities of U-Compare, we show5http://code.google.com/p/jstkthree different workflows that transform the inputdata in different ways, namely translation, auto-matic summarisation and speech synthesis.
In thissection, we provide brief details of these work-flows.5.1 Machine translationThe University of Manchester has created UIMAwrapper components corresponding to differentmodules of Apertium (Corb?
?-Bellot et al 2005), afree rule-based machine translation engine.
Thesecomponents consist of a morphological analyser,POS tagger and translator.
The three componentsmust be run in sequence to carry out translation,although the first two components can be usedin other workflows to carry out monolingualanalyses.
The UIMA components currentlyhandle a subset of the 27 languages dealt withby the complete Apertium system, correspondingto the languages of the METANET4U partners,i.e., English?Spanish, Galician?Spanish,Portuguese?Spanish, Catalan?Spanish andBasque?Spanish.
However, additional languagepairs can be added straightforwardly.
Our sampleworkflow includes as its initial component theLanguage Identifier from the Romanian AcademyResearch Institute for Artificial Intelligence(RACAI), to automatically detect the language ofthe text in the input Sofa.
The subsequent compo-nents in the workflow are the Apertium modules.The workflow demonstrates how heterogeneouscomponents from different research groups canbe combined into workflows to create new NLPapplications.
A sample output from running theworkflow is shown in Figure 2.
The input textwas detected as English by the RACAI LanguageIdentifier.
The English text was subsequentlyanalysed by the morphological analyser and POSTagger, and translated to Spanish by the translator.Figure 2 illustrates the side-by-side display of thecontents of the two Sofas.5.2 Automatic summarisationAutomatic summarisation for Romanian text canbe carried out by creating a workflow consistingof two components developed by the Universitatea?Alexandru Ioan Cuza?
din Ias?i (UAIC).
Firstly,a segmenter (UAICSeg) splits the input text intofragments, which are in turn used as input to thesummariser component (UAICSum).
The lengthof the output summary (percentage of the wholedocument) is parameterised.
As can be seen in46Figure 2: Translation of English text to SpanishFigure 3: Summarisation of Romanian textFigure 3, the output of this workflow is displayedusing the same parallel Sofa viewer.
In this case,the full text is displayed in the left-hand pane andthe summary is shown in the right-hand pane.5.3 Speech synthesisThe Universitat Polite`cnica de Catalunya (UPC)developed a speech synthesiser component thatis based around their Ogmios text-to-speech sys-tem (Bonafonte et al 2006).
The UIMA com-ponent version of this tool generates separate textand audio Sofas; the former stores the textual to-kens and textual representations of their pronun-ciations, whilst the latter stores the start and endtime offsets of each of the tokens in the audio file,together with their transcriptions.
Fig.
4 showshow the textual Sofa information is displayed inU-Compare?s default annotation viewer, whilst theaudio Sofa information is shown in the new au-dio visualiser mentioned above.
The three differ-ent types of visual information are displayed be-low each other, and the segments (tokens) of theaudio file, together with their transcriptions, aredisplayed at the bottom of the window.
A ?Play?button allows either the complete file or a selectedsegment to be played.6 ConclusionsThe requirements of META-NET have motivatedseveral new enhancements to the U-Compare plat-form, which, to our knowledge, make it the firstUIMA-based workflow construction platform thatis fully geared towards the development of NLPapplications that support a wide range of Europeanlanguages.
The 46 new UIMA-wrapped LRs thathave been made available through U-Compare,supporting 15 different European languages andall compliant with the same type system, meanthat the improved U-Compare is essentially a hubof multilingual resources, which can be freely andflexibly combined to create new workflows.
In47Figure 4: Speech Synthesisaddition, our enhancements to U-Compare meanthat various types of multilingual and multimodalworkflows can now be created with the minimumeffort.
These enhancements are intended to makeU-Compare more attractive to users, and to helpstimulate the development of a new generation ofmore complex UIMA-based NLP applications.
Asfuture work, we intend to extend the library ofcomponents that output multiple Sofas, and furtherextend the functionalities of U-Compare to handleother data modalities, e.g., video.AcknowledgementsThis work was partially funded by the Euro-pean Community?s Seventh Framework Program(FP7/2007-2013) [grant number 318736 (OSS-METER)]; MetaNet4U project (ICT PSP Pro-gramme) [grant number 270893]; and Engineer-ing and Physical Sciences Research Council [grantnumbers EP/P505631/1, EP/J50032X/1].ReferencesA.
Bonafonte, P. Agu?ero, J. Adell, J. Pe?rez, andA.
Moreno.
2006.
Ogmios: The upc text-to-speechsynthesis system for spoken translation.
In TC-STAR Workshop on Speech-to-Speech Translation,pages 199?204.A.
Corb?
?-Bellot, M. Forcada, S. Ortiz-Rojas, J. Pe?rez-Ortiz, G.
Ram?
?rez-Sa?nchez, F.
Sa?nchez-Mart??nez,I.
Alegria, A.
Mayor, and K. Sarasola.
2005.An open-source shallow-transfer machine transla-tion engine for the romance languages of Spain.
InProceedings of the 10th Conference of the EAMT,pages 79?86.H.
Cunningham, D. Maynard, K. Bontcheva, andV.
Tablan.
2002.
GATE: an architecture for devel-opment of robust HLT applications.D.
Ferrucci and A. Lally.
2004.
Building an ex-ample application with the unstructured informationmanagement architecture.
IBM Systems Journal,43(3):455?475.R.
Grishman, B. Caid, J. Callan, J. Conley, H. Corbin,J.
Cowie, K. DiBella, P. Jacobs, M. Mettler, B. Og-den, et al1997.
TIPSTER text phase ii architecturedesign version 2.1 p 19 june 1996.U.
Hahn, E. Buyko, R. Landefeld, M. Mu?hlhausen,M.
Poprat, K. Tomanek, and J. Wermter.
2008.
Anoverview of JCoRe, the JULIE lab UIMA compo-nent repository.
In LREC?08 Workshop ?TowardsEnhanced Interoperability for Large HLT Systems:UIMA for NLP?, pages 1?7, Marrakech, Morocco,May.Y.
Kano, M. Miwa, K. Cohen, L. Hunter, S. Ananiadou,and J. Tsujii.
2011.
U-compare: A modular nlpworkflow construction and evaluation system.
IBMJournal of Research and Development, 55(3):11.M.
Ogrodniczuk and D. Karagiozov.
2011.
Atlas - themultilingual language processing platform.
Proce-samiento de Lenguaje Natural, 47(0):241?248.R.
Rak, A. Rowley, W. Black, and S. Ananiadou.2012.
Argo: an integrative, interactive, text mining-based workbench supporting curation.
Database:The Journal of Biological Databases and Curation,2012.G.
Savova, J. Masanz, P. Ogren, J. Zheng, S. Sohn,K.
Kipper-Schuler, and C. Chute.
2010.
Mayo clin-ical text analysis and knowledge extraction system(ctakes): architecture, component evaluation and ap-plications.
Journal of the American Medical Infor-matics Association, 17(5):507?513.U.
Scha?fer.
2006.
Middleware for creating and com-bining multi-dimensional nlp markup.
In Proceed-ings of the 5th Workshop on NLP and XML: Multi-Dimensional Markup in Natural Language Process-ing, pages 81?84.
ACL.48
