Proceedings of the 51st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics, pages 126?130,Sofia, Bulgaria, August 4-9 2013. c?2013 Association for Computational LinguisticsGuiTAR-based Pronominal Anaphora Resolution in BengaliApurbalal SenapatiIndian Statistical Institute203, B.T.Road, Kolkata-700108, Indiaapurbalal.senapati@gmail.comUtpal GarainIndian Statistical Institute203, B.T.Road, Kolkata-700108, Indiautpal.garain@gmail.comAbstractThis paper attempts to use an off-the-shelfanaphora resolution (AR) system for Bengali.The language specific preprocessing modulesof GuiTAR (v3.0.3) are identified and suitablydesigned for Bengali.
Anaphora resolutionmodule is also modified or replaced in order torealize different configurations of GuiTAR.Performance of each configuration is evaluat-ed and experiment shows that the off-the-shelfAR system can be effectively used for Indiclanguages.1 IntroductionLittle computational linguistics research has beendone for anaphora resolution (AR) in Indic lan-guages.
Notable research efforts in this area areconducted by Shobha et al (2000), Prasad et al(2000), Jain et al (2004), Agrawal et al (2007),Uppalapu et al (2009).
These works address ARproblem in language like Hindi, some South In-dian languages including Tamil.
Dhar et al(2008) reported a research on Bengali.
Progressof the research through these works was difficultto quantify as most of the authors used their self-generated datasets and in some cases algorithmslack in required details to make them reproduci-ble.First rigorous effort was taken in ICON 2011(ICON 2011) where a shared task was conductedon AR in  three Indic languages (Hindi, Bengali,and Tamil).
Training and test datasets were pro-vided, both the machine learning (WEKA andSVM based classification) and rule-based ap-proaches are used and the participating systems(4 teams for Bengali, and 2 teams each for Hindiand Tamil) were evaluated using five differentmetrics (MUC, B3, CEAFM, CEAFE, andBLANC).
However, no team attempted to reuseany of the off-the-shelf AR systems.
This paperaims to explore this issue to investigate how faruseful such a system is for AR in Indic lan-guages.
Bengali has been taken as the referencelanguage and GuiTAR (Poesio, 2004) has beenconsidered as the reference off-the-shelf system.GuiTAR is primarily designed for Englishlanguage and therefore, its direct application forBengali is not possible for grammatical varia-tions and resource limitations.
Therefore, thecentral contribution of this paper is to developrequired resources for Bengali and therebyproviding them to GuiTAR for anaphora resolu-tion.
Our contribution also includes extension ofthe ICON2011 AR dataset for Bengali so thatevaluation could be done on a bigger sized da-taset.
Finally, GuiTAR anaphora resolutionmodule is replaced by a previously developedapproach (which is primarily rule-based,Senapati, 2011; Senapati, 2012a) and perfor-mances of different configurations are compared.2 Language specific issues in GuiTARGuiTAR has two major modules namely, prepro-cessing and anaphora resolution (Kabadjov,2007).
In both of these modules modificationsare required to fit it to Bengali.
Let's first identifythe components in both of these two moduleswhere replacement/modifications are needed.Pre-processing:  The purpose of this module isto make GuiTAR independent from input formatspecifications and variations.
It takes as input inXML or text format.
In case of text input, XMLfile generated by the LT-XML tool.
The XMLfile contains the information like word bounda-ries (tokens), grammatical classes (part-of-speech), and chunking information.
From theXML format MAS-XML (Minimum AnaphoricSyntax - XML) is produced to include minimalinformation namely, noun phrase boundaries,utterance boundaries, categories of pronoun,number information, gender information, etc.All these aspects are to be addressed for Bengaliso that for a given input discourse in Bengali,MAS-XML file can be generated correctly.
Nextsection explains how this issue.Anaphora resolution: The GuiTAR system re-solves four types of anaphoras.
The pronouns(personal and possessive) are resolved by using126an implementation of MARS (Mitkov, 2002),whereas different algorithms are used for resolv-ing definite descriptions, and proper nouns.
InMitkov?s algorithm whenever a pronoun is to beresolved, it finds a list of potential antecedentswithin a given ?window?
and checks three typesof syntactic agreements (i.e., person, number andgender) between an antecedent and the pronoun.In case of more than one potential antecedentexists in the list it would be recursively filteredapplying sequentially five different antecedentindicators (aggregate score, immediate reference,collocational pattern, indicating verbs and refer-ential distance) until there is only one element inthe list, i.e., the selected antecedent.
We intro-duce suitable modifications in this module sothat the same implementation of MARS canwork for Bengali.
This is explained in Sec.
4.3 Bengali NLP ResourcesPronouns in Bengali has been studied before(linguistically by Majumdar, 2000; Sengupta,2000 and for computational linguistics: Senapati,2012a).
Table-1 categorizes all pronouns (522 innumber) available in Bengali as observed in acorpus (Bengali corpus, undated) of 35 millionwords.Category Permissible PronounsHonorific Singular ????,????
?, ???
?, ????
?, ????
?,..Honorific Plural    ????
?, ?????
?, ????
?, ????
?,..1st Person Singular    ??
?, ????
?, ???
?,..1st Person Plural    ???
?, ???????
?, ?????
?,..2nd Person Singular   ???
?, ?????
?, ????
?,..2nd Person Plural ????
?, ?????
?, ?????
?,..3rd Person Singular    ?, ?
?, ?, ?
?, ???
?, ??
?,..3rd Person Plural ??
?, ??
?, ???
?, ????
?,..Reflexive Pronoun ???
?, ????
?, ?????
?, ????
?,..Table 1: Language resource3.1 Number Acquisition for NounsIn Bengali, a set of nominal suffixes(Bhattacharya, 1993) (inflections and classifier)are used to recognize the number (singu-lar/plural) of noun.
To identify the number of anoun, we check whether any of the nominal suf-fixes (indicating plurality) are attached with thenoun.
If found, the number of the noun is taggedas plural.
From the corpus, we identified 17 suchsuffixes (e.g.
???
/der, ??
/ra, ?????
/diger, ????
?/digke, ????
/guli, etc.)
which are used for numberacquisition for nouns.3.2 Honorificity of NounsThe honorific agreement exists in Bengali.Honorificity of a noun is indicated by a word orexpression with connotations conveying esteemor respect when used in addressing or referring toa person.
In Bengali three degree of honorificityare observed for the second person and two forthe third person (Majumdar, 2000; Sengupta,2000).
The second and third person pronounshave distinct forms for different degrees ofhonorificity.
Honorificity information is applica-ble for proper nouns (person) and nouns indicat-ing relations like father, mother, teacher, etc.The honorificity information is identified bymaintaining a list of terms which can be consid-ered as honorific addressing terms (e.g.?????
?/bhadrolok, ???
?/babu, ??/Dr.,????
?/mohashoy, ?
?./Dr.,  etc.).
About 20 suchterms are there in the list and we get these termsfrom analysis of the Bengali corpus.
When theseterms are used to add honorificity of a noun theyappear either before or after the noun.
Anotheradditional way for identifying the honorificityinformation is to look at the inflection of themain verb which is inflected with ?/n (i.e.???
?/bolen, ???
?/koren etc.
).Honorificity is extracted during the pre-processing phase and added with the attributehon = <value>.
The value is set ?sup?
(superiori.e.
highest degree of honor), ?neu?
(neutral i.e.medium degree of honor) or ?inf?
(inferior i.e.lowest degree of honor) based on their degree ofhonorificity.
For pronouns, this information isavailable from the pronoun list (honorific singu-lar and honorific plural) as shown in Table-1.4 GuiTAR for BengaliThe following sections explain the modificationsneeded to configure GuiTAR for Bengali.4.1 GuiTAR Preprocessing for BengaliFor getting part-of-speech information, the Stan-ford POS tagger has been retrained for Bengalilanguage.
The tagger is trained with about tagged10,000 sentences and is found to produce about92% accuracy while tested on 2,000 sentences.
Arule based Bengali chunker (De, 2011) is used toget chunking information.
NEIs and their classes(person, location, and organization) are tagged127manually (we did not get any Bengali NEI tool).After adding all these information, the input textis formatted into GuiTAR specified input XMLfile and is converted into MAS-XML.
This filecontains other syntactic information: person,types of pronouns, number and honorificity.
In-formation on person and types of pronounscomes from Table-1.
Number and honorificityare identified as explained before.
Gender infor-mation has little role in Bengali anaphora resolu-tion and hence is not considered.
Types of pro-nouns are taken from Table-1.4.2 GuiTAR-based Pronoun Resolution forBengaliGuiTAR resolves pronouns using MARS ap-proach (Mitkov, 2002) that makes use of severalagreements (based on person, number and gen-der).
Certain changes are required here as genderagreement has no role.
This agreement has beenreplaced by the honorific agreement.
Moreover,the way pronouns are divided in MARS imple-mentation is not always relevant for Bengali pro-nouns.
For example, we do not differentiate be-tween personal and possessive pronouns but theyare separately treated in MARS.
In our case, wehave only considered the personal and reflexivepronouns while applying MARS based imple-mentation for anaphora resolution.In case of more than one antecedent found,GuiTAR resolves it by using five antecedent in-dicators namely, aggregate score, immediate ref-erence, collocational pattern, indicating verbsand referential distance.
For Bengali, the indicat-ing verb indicator has no role in filtering the an-tecedents and hence removed.5 Data and data formatTo evaluate the configured GuiTAR system thedataset provided by ICON 2011(ICON 2011) hasbeen used.
They provided annotated data (POStagged, chunked and name entity tagged) forthree Indian languages including Bengali.
Theannotated data is represented by a column format.Figure 1 shows a sample of the annotated dataand the details description of the data is given inTable - 2.Figure 2.
ICON 2011 data format.We have changed this format into GuiTAR spec-ified XML format and finally checked/correctedmanually.
GuiTAR Preprocessor converts thisXML into MAS-XML which looks like some-thing as shown in Figure 3.Figure 3.
Sample GuiTAR MAS-XML file forBengali text.Column  Type  Description1 Document Id Contains the file-name2 Part number File are dividedinto part numbered3 Word num-berWord index in thesentence4 Word  Word itself4 POS POS of the word5 Chunking Chunking infor-mation using IOBformat6 NE tags Name Entity In-formation is given7 Description Description8 Co-reference Co-referenceinformationTable 2: Description of ICON 2011 data formatThe ICON 2011 data contains nine texts fromdifferent domains (Tourism, Story, News article,Sports).
We have extended this dataset by addingfour more texts in the same format.
Among thesefour pieces, three are short stories and one is tak-en from newspaper articles.
Table 3 shows thedistribution of pronouns in the whole test data setfor Bengali.Data ICON2011 Extended#text 9 4#words 22,531 4,923#pronouns 1,325 322#anaphoric 1,019 253Table 3: Coverage of ICON 2011 dataset1286 EvaluationThe modified GuiTAR system has been evaluat-ed by the dataset as described above.
The datasetcontains 1647 pronouns out of them 706 are per-sonal pronouns (including reflexive pronouns).As the MARS in GuiTAR resolves only personalpronouns, we have used only these personal pro-nouns for evaluation.
Three different systems areconfigured as described below:System-1 (Baseline): A baseline system is con-figured by considering the most recent nounphrase as the referent of a pronoun (the first nounphrase in the backward direction is the anteced-ent of a pronoun).System-2 (GuiTAR with MARS): In this config-uration, GuiTAR is used with the modifications(as described in Sec.
4.1) in its preprocessingmodule and the modified MARS (as described inSec.
4.2) is used for pronominal anaphora resolu-tion (PAR).System-3 (GuiTAR with new a PAR module):Under this configuration, GuiTAR is used withthe modifications (as described in Sec.
4.1) in itspre-processing module but MARS is replaced bya previously developed system (Senapati, 2011;Senapati, 2012a) for pronominal anaphora reso-lution in Bengali.
This is basically a rule-basedsystem.
For every noun phrase (i.e.
a possibleantecedent) the method first maintains a list ofpossible pronouns which the antecedent couldattach with (note that any noun phrase cannot bereferred by any pronoun).
On encountering apronoun, the method searches for the antecedentsfor which the pronoun is in the respective pro-noun-lists.
If there is more than one such ante-cedent, a set of rules is applied to resolve.
Theapproach for applying the rules is similar to theone proposed by Baldwin (1997).The evaluation has used five metrics namely,MUC, B3, CEAFM, CEAFE and BLANC.
Theexperimental results are reported in Table 4.
Re-sults show that GuiTAR with MARS gives betterresult than the situation where the most recentantecedent is picked (i.e.
the baseline system).This improvement is statistically significant(p<0.03 in a two-sided t-test).
When MARS isreplaced by system-3, further improvement isachieved which is also statistically significant(p<0.01).6.1 Error analysisAnalysis of errors shows that errors in numberacquisition and identification of the honorificityare two major errors during preprocessing phase.These errors propagate and result in further er-rors during resolution.
Resolution process itselfintroduces some new errors.
For example, someBengali personal pronouns are ambiguous(sometimes they are anaphoric whereas in othercases they may appear as non-anaphoric too).??
?/tar, ?
?/se are two examples of such pronounsin Bengali (Senapati, 2012b) and the present res-olution system is not able to resolve such cases.System System-1(Baseline)GuiTARMetric System-2(MARS)Sys-tem-3MUCP 0.453 0.516 0.538R 0.550 0.536 0.579F1 0.497 0.526 0.558B3P 0.766 0.828 0.921R 0.771 0.824 0.911F1 0.769 0.826 0.916CEAFMP 0.785 0.800 0.885R 0.632 0.622 0.784F1 0.700 0.700 0.832CEAFEP 0.797 0.825 0.921R 0.552 0.571 0.731F1 0.652 0.675 0.815BLANCP 0.688 0.700 0.732R 0.735 0.736 0.741F1 0.711 0.718 0.736Avg.
F1 0.666 0.689 0.771Table 4: Experimental results7 ConclusionThe present experiment shows that GuiTARwhich is one of the off-the-shelf anaphora resolu-tion systems can be effectively configured forBengali.
Basic NLP information required byGuiTAR pre-processing module has been sup-plied mostly through automatic tools.
A suitabletool is needed for NEI in Bengali.
This can beexplored in future.
It is also revealed that MARSbased implementation in GuiTAR is not verysuitable for Bengali because the antecedent indi-cators used by MARS are probably not very ef-fective for Bengali.
Suitably designed rule basedsystem could produce better result as shown inthe experiment.
Addition of other resolution al-gorithms is definitely a future extension of thisstudy.
Resolution of non-personal pronouns(which were not considered here) would be ad-dressed next.
In future, the similar experimentcan be easily extended to other Indic languages(especially for Hindi and Tamil for which anno-tated data is available).129ReferencesAgarwal, S., Srivastava, M., Agarwal, P., Sanyal, R.2007.
Anaphora Resolution in Hindi Documents, inProc.
Natural Language Processing and KnowledgeEngineering (IEEE NLP-KE), Beijing, China.Baldwin, B.
1997.
CogNIAC: high precision corefer-ence with limited knowledge and linguistic re-sources, In ACL/EACL workshop on Operationalfactors in practical, robust anaphora resolution,pages 38- 45, Madrid, Spain.Bengali Corpus.
TDIL Corpus in Unicode,http://www.isical.ac.in/~lru/downloadCorpus.html.Bhattacharya, T. and Dasgupta, P. 1993.
Classifiers,word order and definiteness in Bengali, In Pro-ceedings of the Seminar on Word Order.
OsmaniaUniversity, Hyderabad, India.Dhar, A. and Garain, U.
2008.
A method for pronomi-nal anaphora resolution in Bengali, In Proc.
of 6thInt.
Conf.
on Natural Language Processing(ICON), Student paper competition section, Pune,India.De, S., Dhar, A., Biswas, S. and Garain, U.
2011.
OnDevelopment and Evaluation of a Chunker forBangla, In Proc.
2nd Int.
Conf.
on Emerging Ap-plications of Information Technology (EAIT), pp.321-324, Kolkata, India.ICON.
2011.
NLP Tools Contest: Anaphora Resolu-tion in Indian Languages, In 9th Int.
Conf.
onNatural Language Processing (ICON), Chennai,India.Jain, P., M R. Mital, S. Kumar, A. Mukerjee, and A.M. Raina.
2004.
Anaphora Resolution in Multi-Person Dialogues, in Proc.
5th SIGdial Workshopon Discourse and Dialogue, Cambridge, Massachu-setts, USA.Kabadjov, M.A.
2007.
A Comprehensive Evaluationof Anaphora Resolution and Discourse-new Classi-fication, PhD thesis, Department of Computer Sci-ence, University of Essex.Majumdar, A.
2000.
Studies in the Anaphoric Rela-tions in Bengali, Publisher: Subarnarekha, India.Mitkov, R. 2002.
Anaphora Resolution.
Longman.Poesio, M. and Kabadjov, M.A.
2004.
A General-Purpose, off-the-shelf Anaphora Resolution Mod-ule: Implementation and Preliminary Evaluation,in LREC 2004.Prasad, R. and Strube, M. 2000.
Discourse salienceand pronoun resolution in Hindi, in Penn WorkingPapers in Linguistics, pp.
189-208.Sengupta, G. 2000.
Lexical anaphors and pronouns inBnagla, Lexical Anaphors and Pronouns in Se-lected South Asian Langauges: A Principled Ty-pology (Eds.
B.C.
Lust, K. Wali, J.W.
Gair, andK.V.
Subbarao), pp.
277-280, Publisher: Moutonde Gruyter, Berlin, New York.Senapati, A. and Garain, U.
2011.
Anaphora Resolu-tion System for Bengali by Pronoun Emitting Ap-proach, in Proc.
NLP Tool Contest, 9th Int.
Conf.on Natural Language Processing (ICON), Chennai,India.Senapati, A. and Garain, U.
2012a.
Anaphora Resolu-tion in Bengali using global discourse knowledge,In Int.
Conf.
of Asian Language Processing(IALP), Hanoi, Vietnam.Senapati, A. and Garain, U.
2012b.
Identification ofAnaphoric tAr (???)
and se (??)
in Bengali, In Proc.34th All India Conference of Linguists (AICL),Shillong, India.Sobha, L. and Patnaik, B.N.Patnaik.
2000.
Vasisth:An Anaphora Resolution System For Indian Lan-guages, In Proc.
Artificial and Computational In-telligence for Decision, Control and Automation inEngineering and Industrial Applications(ACIDCA), Monastir, Tunisia.Uppalapu, B. and Sharma, D.M.
(2009).
PronounResolution For Hindi, in DAARC 2009.130
