Proceedings of the 51st Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics, pages 7?8,Sofia, Bulgaria, August 4-9 2013. c?2013 Association for Computational LinguisticsRobust Automated Natural Language Processingwith Multiword Expressions and CollocationsValia Kordoni and Markus EggHumboldt-Universita?t zu Berlin (Germany)kordonie@anglistik.hu-berlin.de,markus.egg@anglistik.hu-berlin.de1 IntroductionThis tutorial aims to provide attendees with a clearnotion of the linguistic and distributional charac-teristics of multiword expressions (MWEs), theirrelevance for robust automated natural languageprocessing and language technology, what meth-ods and resources are available to support theiruse, and what more could be done in the future.Our target audience are researchers and practition-ers in language technology, not necessarily expertsin MWEs, who are interested in tasks that involveor could benefit from considering MWEs as a per-vasive phenomenon in human language and com-munication.2 Topic OverviewMultiword expressions (MWEs) like break down,bus stop and make ends meet, are expressions con-sisting of two or more lexical units that correspondto some conventional way of saying things (Sag etal., 2001).
They range over linguistic construc-tions such as fixed phrases (per se, by and large),noun compounds (telephone booth, cable car),compound verbs (give a presentation), idioms (afrog in the throat, kill some time), etc.
They arealso widely known as collocations, for the frequentco-occurrence of their components (Manning andSchu?tze, 2001).From a natural language processing perspective,the interest in MWEs comes from the very im-portant role they play forming a large part of hu-man language, which involves the use of linguisticroutines or prefabricated sequences in any kind oftext or speech, from the terminology of a specificdomain (parietal cortex, substantia nigra, spliceup) to the more colloquial vocabulary (freak out,make out, mess up) and the language of the socialmedia (hash tag, fail whale, blackbird pie).
NewMWEs are constantly being introduced in the lan-guage (cloud services, social networking site, se-curity apps), and knowing how they are used re-flects the ability to successfully understand andgenerate language.While easily mastered by native speakers, theirtreatment and interpretation involves consider-able effort for computational systems (and non-native speakers), due to their idiosyncratic, flexi-ble and heterogeneous nature (Rayson et al 2010;Ramisch et al to appear).
First of all, there isthe task of identifying whether a given sequenceof words is an MWE or not (e.g.
give a gift vs.a presentation) (Pecina, 2008; Green et al 2013;Seretan, 2012).
For a given MWE, there is also theproblem of determining whether it forms a com-positional (take away the dishes), semi-idiomatic(boil up the beans) or idiomatic combination (rollup your sleeves) (Kim and Nakov, 2011; Shutovaet al 2013).
Furthermore, MWEs may also bepolysemous: bring up as carrying (bring up thebags), raising (bring up the children) and men-tioning (bring up the subject).
Unfortunately, so-lutions that are successfully employed for treatingsimilar problems in the context of simplex worksmay not be adequate for MWEs, given the com-plex interactions between their component words(e.g.
the idiomatic use of spill in spilling beansas revealing secrets vs. its literal usage in spillinglentils).3 Content OverviewThis tutorial consists of four parts.
Part I startswith a thorough introduction to different types ofMWEs and collocations, their linguistic dimen-sions (idiomaticity, syntactic and semantic fixed-ness, specificity, etc.
), as well as their statisti-cal characteristics (variability, recurrence, associa-tion, etc.).
This part concludes with an overview oflinguistic and psycholinguistic theories of MWEsto date.For MWEs to be useful for language tech-nology, they must be recognisable automatically.7Hence, Part II surveys computational approachesfor MWEs recognition, both manually-authoredapproaches and using machine learning tech-niques, and for modeling syntactic and semanticvariability.
We will also review token identifica-tion and disambiguation of MWEs in context (e.g.bus stop in Does the bus stop here?
vs.
The busstop is here) and methods for the automatic detec-tion of the degree of compositionality of MWEsand their interpretation.
Part II finishes with a dis-cussion of evaluation for MWE tasks.Part III of the tutorial describes resources madeavailable for a wide range of languages as wellas MWE-related multi-level annotation platformsand examples of where MWEs treatment can con-tribute to language technology tasks and appli-cations such as parsing, word sense disambigua-tion, machine translation, information extractionand information retrieval.
Part IV concludes witha list of future possibilities and open challenges inthe computational treatment of MWEs in currentNLP models and techniques.4 Tutorial Outline1.
PART I ?
General overview:(a) Introduction(b) Types and examples of MWEs and collocations(c) Linguistic dimensions of MWEs: idiomaticity,syntactic and semantic fixedness, specificity, etc.
(d) Statistical dimensions of MWEs: variability, re-currence, association, etc.
(e) Linguistic and psycholinguistic theories ofMWEs2.
PART II ?
Computational methods(a) Recognising the elements of MWEs: type iden-tification(b) Recognising how elements of MWEs are com-bined: syntactic and semantic variability(c) Token identification and disambiguation ofMWEs(d) Compositionality and Interpretation of MWEs(e) Evaluation of MWE tasks3.
PART III ?
Resources, tasks and applications:(a) MWEs in resources: corpora, lexica and ontolo-gies (e.g.
Wordnet and Genia)(b) Tools for MWE identification and annotation(e.g.
NSP, mwetoolkit, UCS and jMWE)(c) MWEs and Collocations in NLP tasks: Pars-ing, POS-tagging, Word Sense Disambiguation(WSD)(d) MWes and Collocations in Language Technol-ogy applications: Information Retrieval (IR), In-formation Extraction (IE), Machine Translation(MT)4.
PART IV ?
Future challenges and open prob-lemsReferencesSpence Green, Marie-Catherine de Marneffe, and Christo-pher D. Manning.
2013.
Parsing models for identify-ing multiword expressions.
Computational Linguistics,39(1):195?227.Su Nam Kim and Preslav Nakov.
2011.
Large-scale nouncompound interpretation using bootstrapping and the webas a corpus.
In EMNLP, pages 648?658.Ioannis Korkontzelos and Suresh Manandhar.
2010.
Canrecognising multiword expressions improve shallow pars-ing?
In Human Language Technologies: The 2010 AnnualConference of the North American Chapter of the Associ-ation for Computational Linguistics, pages 636?644, LosAngeles, California, June.
Association for ComputationalLinguistics.Christopher D. Manning and Hinrich Schu?tze.
2001.
Foun-dations of statistical natural language processing.
MITPress.Pavel Pecina.
2008.
A machine learning approach to mul-tiword expression extraction.
In Nicole Gre?goire, Ste-fan Evert, and Brigitte Krenn, editors, Proceedings of theLREC Workshop Towards a Shared Task for MultiwordExpressions (MWE 2008), pages 54?57.Carlos Ramisch, Paulo Schreiner, Marco Idiart, and AlineVillavicencio.
2008.
An evaluation of methods for theextraction of multiword expressions.
In Nicole Gre?goire,Stefan Evert, and Brigitte Krenn, editors, Proceedings ofthe LREC Workshop Towards a Shared Task for MultiwordExpressions (MWE 2008), pages 50?53.Carlos Ramisch, Aline Villavicencio, and Valia Kordoni.
toappear.
Special Issue on Multiword Expressions.
ACMTSLP.Paul Rayson, Scott Songlin Piao, Serge Sharoff, Stefan Evert,and Begon?a Villada Moiro?n.
2010.
Multiword expres-sions: hard going or plain sailing?
Language Resourcesand Evaluation, 44(1-2):1?5.Ivan A.
Sag, Timothy Baldwin, Francis Bond, Ann Copes-take, and Dan Flickinger.
2001.
Multiword expressions:A pain in the neck for NLP.
In Proc.
of the 3rd Interna-tional Conference on Intelligent Text Processing and Com-putational Linguistics (CICLing-2002, pages 1?15.Violeta Seretan.
2012.
Syntax-Based Collocation Extrac-tion, volume 44, Text, Speech and Language Technology.Springer.Ekaterina Shutova, Simone Teufel, and Anna Korhonen.2013.
Statistical metaphor processing.
Comput.
Linguist.,39(2):301?353, June.Aline Villavicencio, Francis Bond, Anna Korhonen, and Di-ana McCarthy.
2005.
Introduction to the special issueon multiword expressions: Having a crack at a hard nut.Computer Speech & Language, 19(4):365?377.Aline Villavicencio, Valia Kordoni, Yi Zhang, Marco Idiart,and Carlos Ramisch.
2007.
Validation and evaluation ofautomatically acquired multiword expressions for gram-mar engineering.
In Proceedings of the 2007 Joint Con-ference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Pro-cessing and Computational Natural Language Learning(EMNLP-CoNLL), pages 1034?1043, Prague, Czech Re-public, June.
Association for Computational Linguistics.8
