Proceedings of the 52nd Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Short Papers), pages 19?23,Baltimore, Maryland, USA, June 23-25 2014.c?2014 Association for Computational LinguisticsA Composite Kernel Approach for Dialog Topic Tracking withStructured Domain Knowledge from WikipediaSeokhwan Kim, Rafael E. Banchs, Haizhou LiHuman Language Technology DepartmentInstitute for Infocomm ResearchSingapore 138632{kims,rembanchs,hli}@i2r.a-star.edu.sgAbstractDialog topic tracking aims at analyzingand maintaining topic transitions in on-going dialogs.
This paper proposes a com-posite kernel approach for dialog topictracking to utilize various types of do-main knowledge obtained fromWikipedia.Two kernels are defined based on historysequences and context trees constructedbased on the extracted features.
The ex-perimental results show that our compos-ite kernel approach can significantly im-prove the performances of topic trackingin mixed-initiative human-human dialogs.1 IntroductionHuman communications in real world situationsinterlace multiple topics which are related to eachother in conversational contexts.
This fact sug-gests that a dialog system should be also capableof conducting multi-topic conversations with usersto provide them a more natural interaction with thesystem.
However, the majority of previous workon dialog interfaces has focused on dealing withonly a single target task.
Although some multi-task dialog systems have been proposed (Lin et al,1999; Ikeda et al, 2008; Celikyilmaz et al, 2011),they have aimed at just choosing the most proba-ble one for each input from the sub-systems, eachof which is independently operated from others.To analyze and maintain dialog topics from amore systematic perspective in a given dialog flow,some researchers (Nakata et al, 2002; Lagus andKuusisto, 2002; Adams and Martell, 2008) haveconsidered this dialog topic identification as a sep-arate sub-problem of dialog management and at-tempted to solve it with text categorization ap-proaches for the recognized utterances in a giventurn.
The major obstacle to the success of theseapproaches results from the differences betweenwritten texts and spoken utterances.
In most textcategorization tasks, the proper category for eachtextual unit can be assigned based only on its owncontent.
However, the dialog topic at each turncan be determined not only by the user?s inten-tions captured from the given utterances, but alsoby the system?s decisions for dialog managementpurposes.
Thus, the text categorization approachescan only be effective for the user-initiative caseswhen users tend to mention the topic-related ex-pressions explicitly in their utterances.The other direction of dialog topic tracking ap-proaches made use of external knowledge sourcesincluding domain models (Roy and Subramaniam,2006), heuristics (Young et al, 2007), and agen-das (Bohus and Rudnicky, 2003; Lee et al, 2008).These knowledge-based methods have an advan-tage of dealing with system-initiative dialogs, be-cause dialog flows can be controlled by the sys-tem based on given resources.
However, this as-pect can limit the flexibility to handle the user?sresponses which are contradictory to the system?ssuggestions.
Moreover, these approaches face costproblems for building a sufficient amount of re-sources to cover broad states of complex dialogs,because these resources should be manually pre-pared by human experts for each specific domain.In this paper, we propose a composite kernelto explore various types of information obtainedfrom Wikipedia for mixed-initiative dialog topictracking without significant costs for building re-sources.
Composite kernels have been success-fully applied to improve the performances in otherNLP problems (Zhao and Grishman, 2005; Zhanget al, 2006) by integrating multiple individual ker-nels, which aim to overcome the errors occurringat one level by information from other levels.
Ourcomposite kernel consists of a history sequenceand a domain context tree kernels, both of whichare composed based on similar textual units inWikipedia articles to a given dialog context.19t Speaker Utterance Topic Transition0 Guide How can I help you?
NONE?NONE1Tourist Can you recommend some good places to visitin Singapore?NONE?ATTRGuide Well if you like to visit an icon of Singapore,Merlion park will be a nice place to visit.2Tourist Merlion is a symbol for Singapore, right?ATTR?ATTRGuide Yes, we use that to symbolise Singapore.3Tourist Okay.ATTR?ATTRGuide The lion head symbolised the founding of the is-land and the fish body just symbolised the hum-ble fishing village.4Tourist How can I get there from Orchard Road?ATTR?TRSPGuide You can take the north-south line train from Or-chard Road and stop at Raffles Place station.5Tourist Is this walking distance from the station to thedestination?TRSP?TRSPGuide Yes, it?ll take only ten minutes on foot.6Tourist Alright.TRSP?FOODGuide Well, you can also enjoy some seafoods at theriverside near the place.7Tourist What food do you have any recommendationsto try there?FOOD?FOODGuide If you like spicy foods, you must try chilli crabwhich is one of our favourite dishes here in Sin-gapore.8 Tourist Great!
I?ll try that.
FOOD?FOODFigure 1: Examples of dialog topic tracking onSingapore tour guide dialogs2 Dialog Topic TrackingDialog topic tracking can be considered as a clas-sification problem to detect topic transitions.
Themost probable pair of topics at just before and aftereach turn is predicted by the following classifier:f(xt) = (yt?1, yt), where xtcontains the inputfeatures obtained at a turn t, yt?
C , and C is aclosed set of topic categories.
If a topic transitionoccurs at t, ytshould be different from yt?1.
Oth-erwise, both ytand yt?1have the same value.Figure 1 shows an example of dialog topictracking in a given dialog fragment on Singaporetour guide domain between a tourist and a guide.This conversation is divided into three segments,since f detects three topic transitions at t1, t4andt6.
Then, a topic sequence of ?Attraction?, ?Trans-portation?, and ?Food?
is obtained from the results.3 Wikipedia-based Composite Kernel forDialog Topic TrackingThe classifier f can be built on the training exam-ples annotated with topic labels using supervisedmachine learning techniques.
Although some fun-damental features extracted from the utterancesmentioned at a given turn or in a certain number ofprevious turns can be used for training the model,this information obtained solely from an ongoingdialog is not sufficient to identify not only user-initiative, but also system-initiative topic transi-tions.To overcome this limitation, we propose toleverage on Wikipedia as an external knowledgesource that can be obtained without significanteffort toward building resources for topic track-ing.
Recently, some researchers (Wilcock, 2012;Breuing et al, 2011) have shown the feasibilityof using Wikipedia knowledge to build dialog sys-tems.
While each of these studies mainly focusesonly on a single type of information including cat-egory relatedness or hyperlink connectedness, thiswork aims at incorporating various knowledge ob-tained from Wikipedia into the model using a com-posite kernel method.Our composite kernel consists of two differentkernels: a history sequence kernel and a domaincontext tree kernel.
Both represent the current di-alog context at a given turn with a set of relevantWikipedia paragraphs which are selected based onthe cosine similarity between the term vectors ofthe recently mentioned utterances and each para-graph in the Wikipedia collection as follows:sim (x, pi) =?
(x) ?
?(pi)|?(x)||?
(pi)|,where x is the input, piis the i-th paragraph inthe Wikipedia collection, ?
(pi) is the term vectorextracted from pi.
The term vector for the input x,?
(x), is computed by accumulating the weights inthe previous turns as follows:?
(x) =(?1, ?2, ?
?
?
, ?|W |)?
R|W |,where ?i=?hj=0(?j?
tf idf(wi, u(t?j))), utisthe utterance mentioned in a turn t, tf idf(wi, ut)is the product of term frequency of a word wiinutand inverse document frequency of wi, ?
is adecay factor for giving more importance to morerecent turns, |W | is the size of word dictionary,and h is the number of previous turns consideredas dialog history features.After computing this relatedness between thecurrent dialog context and every paragraph in theWikipedia collection, two kernel structures areconstructed using the information obtained fromthe highly-ranked paragraphs in the Wikipedia.3.1 History Sequence KernelThe first structure to be constructed for our com-posite kernel is a sequence of the most similarparagraph IDs of each turn from the beginning ofthe session to the current turn.
Formally, the se-quence S at a given turn t is defined as:S = (s0, ?
?
?
, st),where sj= argmaxi(sim (xj, pi)).20Since our hypothesis is that the more similar thedialog histories of the two inputs are, the moresimilar aspects of topic transtions occur for them,we propose a sub-sequence kernel (Lodhi et al,2002) to map the data into a new feature space de-fined based on the similarity of each pair of historysequences as follows:Ks(S1, S2) =?u?An?i:u=S1[i]?j:u=S2[j]?l(i)+l(j),where A is a finite set of paragraph IDs, S is a fi-nite sequence of paragraph IDs, u is a subsequenceof S, S[j] is the subsequence with the i-th charac-ters ?i ?
j, l(i) is the length of the subsequence,and ?
?
(0, 1) is a decay factor.3.2 Domain Context Tree KernelThe other kernel incorporates more various typesof domain knowledge obtained from Wikipediainto the feature space.
In this method, each in-stance is encoded in a tree structure constructedfollowing the rules in Figure 2.
The root node ofa tree has few children, each of which is a subtreerooted at each paragraph node in:Pt= {pi|sim (xt, pi) > ?
},where ?
is a threshold value to select the relevantparagraphs.
Each subtree consists of a set of fea-tures from a given paragraph in the Wikipedia col-lection in a hierarchical structure.
Figure 3 showsan example of a constructed tree.Since this constructed tree structure representssemantic, discourse, and structural informationextracted from the similar Wikipedia paragraphsto each given instance, we can explore these moreenriched features to build the topic tracking modelusing a subset tree kernel (Collins and Duffy,2002) which computes the similarity between eachpair of trees in the feature space as follows:Kt(T1, T2) =?n1?NT1?n2?NT2?
(n1, n2) ,where NTis the set of T ?s nodes, ?
(n1, n2) =?iIi(ni) ?
Ii(n2), and Ii(n) is a function that is1 iff the i-th tree fragment occurs with root at noden and 0 otherwise.3.3 Kernel CompositionIn this work, a composite kernel is defined by com-bining the individual kernels including history se-quence and domain context tree kernels, as well as<TREE>:=(ROOT <PAR>...<PAR>)<PAR>:=(PAR_ID <PARENTS><PREV_PAR><NEXT_PAR><LINKS>)<PARENTS>:=(?PARENTS?
<ART><SEC>)<ART>:=(ART_ID <ART_NAME><CAT_LIST>)<ART_NAME>:=(?ART_NAME?
ART_NAME)<CAT_LIST>:=(?CAT?
<CAT>...<CAT>)<CAT>:=(CAT_ID*)<SEC>:=(SEC_ID <SEC_NAME><PARENT_SEC><PREV_SEC><NEXT_SEC>)<SEC_NAME>:=(?SEC_NAME?
SEC_NAME)<PARENT_SEC>:=(?PRN_SEC?, PRN_SEC_ID)<PREV_SEC>:=(?PREV_SEC?, PREV_SEC_NAME)<NEXT_SEC>:=(?NEXT_SEC?, NEXT_SEC_NAME)<PREV_PAR>:=(?PREV_PAR?, PREV_PAR_ID)<NEXT_PAR>:=(?NEXT_PAR?, NEXT_PAR_ID)<LINKS>:=(?LINKS?
<LINK>...<LINK>)<LINK>:=(LINK_NAME*)Figure 2: Rules for constructing a domain contexttree from Wikipedia: PAR, ART, SEC, and CATare acronyms for paragraph, article, section, andcategory, respectivelyFigure 3: An example of domain context treethe linear kernel between the vectors representingfundamental features extracted from the utterancesthemselves and the results of linguistic preproces-sors.
The composition is performed by linear com-bination as follows:K(x1, x2) =?
?Kl(V1, V2) + ?
?Ks(S1, S2)+ ?
?Kt(T1, T2),where Vi, Si, and Tiare the feature vector, his-tory sequence, and domain context tree of xi, re-spectively, Klis the linear kernel computed by in-ner product of the vectors, ?, ?, and ?
are coeffi-cients for linear combination of three kernels, and?
+ ?
+ ?
= 1.4 EvaluationTo demonstrate the effectiveness of our proposedkernel method for dialog topic tracking, we per-formed experiments on the Singapore tour guidedialogs which consists of 35 dialog sessions col-lected from real human-human mixed initiativeconversations related to Singapore between guides21and tourists.
All the recorded dialogs with the totallength of 21 hours were manually transcribed, thenthese transcribed dialogs with 19,651 utteranceswere manually annotated with the following ninetopic categories: Opening, Closing, Itinerary, Ac-commodation, Attraction, Food, Transportation,Shopping, and Other.Since we aim at developing the system whichacts as a guide communicating with tourist users,an instance for both training and prediction oftopic transition was created for each turn oftourists.
The annotation of an instance is a pair ofprevious and current topics, and the actual numberof labels occurred in the dataset is 65.For each instance, the term vector was gener-ated from the utterances in current user turn, previ-ous system turn, and history turns within the win-dow sizes h = 10.
Then, the history sequence andtree context structures for our composite kernelwere constructed based on 3,155 articles relatedto Singapore collected from Wikipedia databasedump as of February 2013.
For the linear ker-nel baseline, we used the following features: n-gram words, previous system actions, and currentuser acts which were manually annotated.
Finally,8,318 instances were used for training the model.We trained the SVM models usingSVMlight 1(Joachims, 1999) with the follow-ing five different combinations of kernels: Klonly, KlwithP as features, Kl+Ks,Kl+Kt, andKl+Ks+Kt.
The threshold value ?
for selectingP was 0.5, and the combinations of kernels wereperformed with the same ?, ?, or ?
coefficientvalues for all sub-kernels.
All the evaluationswere done in five-fold cross validation to the man-ual annotations with two different metrics: oneis accuracy of the predicted topic label for everyturn, and the other is precision/recall/F-measurefor each event of topic transition occurred eitherin the answer or the predicted result.Table 1 compares the performances of the fivecombinations of kernels.
When just the para-graph IDs were included as additional features,it failed to improve the performances from thebaseline without any external features.
However,our proposed kernels using history sequences anddomain context trees achieved significant perfor-mances improvements for both evaluation metrics.While the history sequence kernel enhanced thecoverage of the model to detect topic transitions,1http://svmlight.joachims.org/Turn-level Transition-levelAccuracy P R FKl62.45 42.77 24.77 31.37Kl+ P 62.44 42.76 24.77 31.37Kl+ Ks67.19 39.94 40.59 40.26Kl+ Kt68.54 45.55 35.69 40.02All 69.98 44.82 39.83 42.18Table 1: Experimental Results050010001500200025003000KlKl+ P Kl+KsKl+KtALLNumberofTransitionErrors FP(SYS)FN(SYS)FP(USR)FN(USR)Figure 4: Error distibutions of topic transitions:FN and FP denotes false negative and false posi-tive respectively.
USR and SYS in the parenthesesindicate the initiativity of the transitions.the domain context tree kernel contributed to pro-duce more precise outputs.
Finally, the modelcombining all the kernels outperformed the base-line by 7.53% in turn-level accuracy and 10.81%in transition-level F-measure.The error distributions in Figure 4 indicate thatthese performance improvements were achievedby resolving the errors not only on user-initiativetopic transitions, but also on system-initiativecases, which implies the effectiveness of the struc-tured knowledge from Wikipedia to track the top-ics in mixed-initiative dialogs.5 ConclusionsThis paper presented a composite kernel approachfor dialog topic tracking.
This approach aimed torepresent various types of domain knowledge ob-tained from Wikipedia as two structures: historysequences and domain context trees; then incor-porate them into the model with kernel methods.Experimental results show that the proposed ap-proaches helped to improve the topic tracking per-formances in mixed-initiative human-human di-alogs with respect to the baseline model.22ReferencesP.
H. Adams and C. H. Martell.
2008.
Topic detectionand extraction in chat.
In Proceedings of the 2008IEEE International Conference on Semantic Com-puting, pages 581?588.D.
Bohus and A. Rudnicky.
2003.
Ravenclaw: dia-log management using hierarchical task decomposi-tion and an expectation agenda.
In Proceedings ofthe European Conference on Speech, Communica-tion and Technology, pages 597?600.A.
Breuing, U. Waltinger, and I. Wachsmuth.
2011.Harvesting wikipedia knowledge to identify topicsin ongoing natural language dialogs.
In Proceedingsof the IEEE/WIC/ACM International Conference onWeb Intelligence and Intelligent Agent Technology(WI-IAT), pages 445?450.A.
Celikyilmaz, D. Hakkani-Tu?r, and G. Tu?r.
2011.Approximate inference for domain detection inspoken language understanding.
In Proceedingsof the 12th Annual Conference of the Interna-tional Speech Communication Association (INTER-SPEECH), pages 713?716.Michael Collins and Nigel Duffy.
2002.
New rank-ing algorithms for parsing and tagging: Kernels overdiscrete structures, and the voted perceptron.
In Pro-ceedings of the 40th annual meeting on associationfor computational linguistics, pages 263?270.S.
Ikeda, K. Komatani, T. Ogata, H. G. Okuno, andH.
G. Okuno.
2008.
Extensibility verification of ro-bust domain selection against out-of-grammar utter-ances in multi-domain spoken dialogue system.
InProceedings of the 9th INTERSPEECH, pages 487?490.T.
Joachims.
1999.
Making large-scale SVM learn-ing practical.
In B. Scho?lkopf, C. Burges, andA.
Smola, editors, Advances in Kernel Methods -Support Vector Learning, chapter 11, pages 169?184.
MIT Press, Cambridge, MA.K.
Lagus and J. Kuusisto.
2002.
Topic identificationin natural language dialogues using neural networks.In Proceedings of the 3rd SIGdial workshop on Dis-course and dialogue, pages 95?102.C.
Lee, S. Jung, and G. G. Lee.
2008.
Robust dia-log management with n-best hypotheses using di-alog examples and agenda.
In Proceedings of the46th Annual Meeting of the Association for Com-putational Linguistics: Human Language Technolo-gies, pages 630?637.B.
Lin, H. Wang, and L. Lee.
1999.
A distributedarchitecture for cooperative spoken dialogue agentswith coherent dialogue state and history.
In Pro-ceedings of the IEEE Automatic Speech Recognitionand Understanding Workshop (ASRU).Huma Lodhi, Craig Saunders, John Shawe-Taylor,Nello Cristianini, and Chris Watkins.
2002.
Textclassification using string kernels.
The Journal ofMachine Learning Research, 2:419?444.T.
Nakata, S. Ando, and A. Okumura.
2002.
Topic de-tection based on dialogue history.
In Proceedings ofthe 19th international conference on Computationallinguistics (COLING), pages 1?7.S.
Roy and L. V. Subramaniam.
2006.
Automatic gen-eration of domain models for call centers from noisytranscriptions.
In Proceedings of COLING/ACL,pages 737?744.G.
Wilcock.
2012.
Wikitalk: a spoken wikipedia-based open-domain knowledge access system.
InProceedings of the Workshop on Question Answer-ing for Complex Domains, page 5770.S.
Young, J. Schatzmann, K. Weilhammer, and H. Ye.2007.
The hidden information state approach to di-alog management.
In Proceedings of the Interna-tional Conference on Acoustics, Speech and SignalProcessing (ICASSP), pages 149?152.Min Zhang, Jie Zhang, Jian Su, and Guodong Zhou.2006.
A composite kernel to extract relations be-tween entities with both flat and structured features.In Proceedings of the 21st International Conferenceon Computational Linguistics and the 44th annualmeeting of the Association for Computational Lin-guistics, pages 825?832.Shubin Zhao and Ralph Grishman.
2005.
Extractingrelations with integrated information using kernelmethods.
In Proceedings of the 43rd Annual Meet-ing on Association for Computational Linguistics,pages 419?426.23
