Proceedings of the 52nd Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics: Tutorials, page 7,Baltimore, Maryland, USA, 22 June 2014. c?2014 Association for Computational LinguisticsWikification and Beyond:The Challenges of Entity and Concept GroundingDan Roth Heng JiUniversity of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign Rensselaer Polytechnic Institutedanr@illinois.edu jih@rpi.eduMing-Wei Chang Taylor CassidyMicrosoft Research Army Research Lab & IBM Researchminchang@microsoft.com taylor.cassidy.ctr@mail.mil1 IntroductionContextual disambiguation and grounding ofconcepts and entities in natural language are es-sential to progress in many natural language un-derstanding tasks and fundamental to many ap-plications.
Wikification aims at automaticallyidentifying concept mentions in text and linkingthem to referents in a knowledge base (KB) (e.g.,Wikipedia).
Consider the sentence, "The Timesreport on Blumenthal (D) has the potential tofundamentally reshape the contest in the NutmegState.".
A Wikifier should identify the key enti-ties and concepts and map them to an encyclope-dic resource (e.g., ?D?
refers to Democratic Par-ty, and ?the Nutmeg State?
refers to Connecticut.Wikification benefits end-users and NaturalLanguage Processing (NLP) systems.
Readerscan better comprehend Wikified documents asinformation about related topics is readily acces-sible.
For systems, a Wikified document eluci-dates concepts and entities by grounding them inan encyclopedic resource or an ontology.
Wikifi-cation output has improved NLP down-streamtasks, including coreference resolution, user in-terest discovery , recommendation and search.This task has received increased attention inrecent years from the NLP and Data Miningcommunities, partly fostered by the U.S. NISTText Analysis Conference Knowledge Base Pop-ulation (KBP) track, and several versions of ithas been studied.
These include Wikifying allconcept mentions in a single text document;Wikifying a cluster of co-referential named enti-ty mentions that appear across documents (EntityLinking), and Wikifying a whole document to asingle concept.
Other works relate this task tocoreference resolution within and across docu-ments and in the context of multiple text genres.2 Content OverviewThis tutorial will motivate Wikification as abroad paradigm for cross-source linking forknowledge enrichment.
We will discuss multipledimensions of the task definition, present thebuilding blocks of a state-of-the-art Wikifier,share key lessons learned from analysis of re-sults, and discuss recently proposed ideas foradvancing work in this area in response to keychallenges.
We will touch on new research areasincluding interactive Wikification, social media,and censorship.
The tutorial will be useful for allthose with interests in cross-source informationextraction and linking, knowledge acquisition,and the use of acquired knowledge in NLP.
Wewill provide a concise roadmap of recent per-spectives and results, and point to some of ouravailable Wikification resources.3 Outline?
Introduction and Motivation?
Methodological presentation of a skeletal Wik-ification systemo Mention and candidate identificationo Knowledge representationo Local and global context analysiso Role of Machine Learning?
Obstacles & Advanced Methodso Joint modelingo Collective inferenceo Scarcity of supervision signalso Diverse text genres and social media?
Remaining Challenges and Future Worko Rich semantic knowledge acquisitiono Cross-lingual WikificationReferenceshttp://nlp.cs.rpi.edu/kbp/2014/elreading.html 7
