Proceedings of the ACL 2014 Student Research Workshop, pages 10?17,Baltimore, Maryland USA, June 22-27 2014.c?2014 Association for Computational LinguisticsExtracting Temporal and Causal Relations between EventsParamita MirzaFondazione Bruno KesslerUniversity of TrentoTrento, Italyparamita@fbk.euAbstractA notably challenging problem related toevent processing is recognizing the rela-tions holding between events in a text, inparticular temporal and causal relations.While there has been some research ontemporal relations, the aspect of causalitybetween events from a Natural LanguageProcessing (NLP) perspective has hardlybeen touched.
We propose an annotationscheme to cover different types of causalitybetween events, techniques for extractingsuch relations and an investigation into theconnection between temporal and causal re-lations.
In this thesis work we aim to focusespecially on the latter, because causalityis presumed to have a temporal constraint.We conjecture that injecting this presump-tion may be beneficial for the recognitionof both temporal and causal relations.1 IntroductionWith the rapid growth of information available onthe world wide web, especially in the form of un-structured and natural texts, information extraction(IE) becomes one of the most prominent fields inNLP research.
IE aims to provide ways to automat-ically extract the available information and storethem in a structured representation of knowledge.The stored knowledge can then be useful for manyNLP applications, such as question answering, tex-tual entailment, summarization, and focused infor-mation retrieval systems.There are several subtasks within informationextraction related to the type of knowledge onewishes to extract from the text, event extraction be-ing one of them.
Event extraction is considered tobe a non-trivial task, due to the fact that mentionsof an event in text could be highly varied in termsof sentence construction, and that the attributes de-scribing an event are usually mentioned in severalsentences.
However, the most challenging problemin the context of event extraction is identifying therelationship between events.Events are usually anchored to temporal expres-sions.
The temporal attribute of an event can beused to determine the temporal relationship be-tween events.
This information can be useful forthe ordering of event sequence in a timeline, e.g.for the better presentation of news or history texts.Moreover, in multi-document summarization ofnews articles, the relative order of events is impor-tant to merge and present information from multi-ple sources correctly.A more complex type of relationship betweenevents is causality.
Identifying the causal relationbetween events is an important step in predictingoccurrence of future events, and can be very ben-eficial in risk analysis as well as decision makingsupport.There is an overlap between causal and tem-poral relations, since by the definition of causal-ity, the first event (cause) must happen BEFOREthe second event (effect).
We claim that a systemfor extracting both temporal and causal relations,may benefit from integrating this presumption.
Themain focus of this research work will be (i) investi-gating ways to utilize this presumption in buildingan integrated event relation extraction system, inaddition to (ii) exploring ways to develop a robustextraction component for each type of relations(temporal and causal).2 BackgroundIn NLP, the definition of an event can be varied de-pending on the target application.
In topic detectionand tracking (Allan, 2002), the term event is usedinterchangeably with topic, which describes some-thing that happens and is usually used to identify acluster of documents, e.g.
Olympics, wars.
On theother hand, information extraction provides finergranularity of event definitions, in which events10are entities that happen/occur within the scope of adocument.There are several annotation frameworks forevents and temporal expressions that can be viewedas event models,1TimeML (Pustejovsky et al,2003b) and ACE (Consortium, 2005) being theprominent ones.Both TimeML and ACE define an event assomething that happens/occurs or a state thatholds true, which can be expressed by a verb,a noun, an adjective, as well as a nominaliza-tion either from verbs or adjectives.
Considerthe following passage annotated with events andtemporal expressions (TIMEX).
?A Philippinevolcano, dormantEVENTfor six centuriesTIMEX,explodedEVENTlast MondayTIMEX.
During theeruptionEVENT, lava, rocks and red-hot ash arespewedEVENTonto surrounding villages.
TheexplosionEVENTclaimedEVENTat least 30 lives.
?The most important attribute of TimeML thatdiffers from ACE is the separation of the repre-sentation of events and temporal expressions fromthe anchoring or ordering dependencies.
Insteadof treating a temporal expression as an event ar-gument, TimeML introduces temporal link annota-tions to establish dependencies (temporal relations)between events and temporal expressions (Puste-jovsky et al, 2003b).
This annotation is importantin (i) anchoring an event to a temporal expression(event time-stamping) and (ii) determining the tem-poral order between events.
This distinctive featureof TimeML becomes our main consideration inchoosing the event model for our research.Moreover, TimeML is the annotation frameworkused in TempEval-32, the most recent shared taskon temporal and event processing.
The ultimategoal of this evaluation campaign is the automaticidentification of temporal expressions, events, andtemporal relations within a text (UzZaman et al,2012).The main tasks defined in TempEval-3 include:the automatic extraction of TimeML entities, i.e.temporal expressions and events, and the end-to-end automatic extraction of both TimeML enti-ties and temporal links/relations.
The result ofTempEval-3 reported by UzZaman et al (2013)1There are other event models based on web ontology(RDFS+OWL) such as LODE (Shaw et al, 2009), SEM (vanHage et al, 2011) and DOLCE (Gangemi et al, 2002), whichencode knowledge about events as triples.
Such models canbe seen as ways to store the extracted knowledge to performthe reasoning on.2http://www.cs.york.ac.uk/semeval-2013/task1/shows that even though the performances of sys-tems for extracting TimeML entities are quite good(>80% F-score), the overall performance of end-to-end event extraction systems suffers from thelow performance of the temporal relation extrac-tion system.
The state-of-the-art performance onthe temporal relation extraction task yields onlyaround 36% F-score.
This becomes the main rea-son of focusing our research on the extraction ofevent relations.3 Research ProblemWe consider two types of event relations to be ex-tracted from text, which are temporal relations andcausal relations.
Causal relations are related totemporal relations since there is a temporal con-straint in causality, i.e.
the cause must precede theeffect.
Considering this presumption, and the as-sumption that there are good enough systems toextract temporal expressions and events, we definetwo main problems that will be addressed in thisresearch work:1.
Given a text annotated with entities (temporalexpressions and events), how to automaticallyextract temporal and causal relations betweenthem.2.
Given the temporal constraint of causality,how to utilize the interaction between tempo-ral relations and causal relations for buildingan integrated event relation extraction systemfor both types of relations.4 Research MethodologyThere are several aspects of the mentioned prob-lems that will become our guidelines in continuingour research in this topic.
The following sectionswill give a more detailed description of these as-pects including the arising challenges, some pre-liminary results to address the challenges and ourfuture research directions.4.1 Temporal Relation ExtractionAs previously mentioned, we consider the TimeMLannotation framework because it explicitly encodesthe temporal links between entities (events and tem-poral expressions) in a text.
In TimeML, each tem-poral link has a temporal relation type assigned toit.
There are 14 types of temporal relations speci-fied in TimeML version 1.2.1 (Saur??
et al, 2006),11which are defined based on Allen?s interval algebra(Allen, 1983), as illustrated in Table 1.a |??
?| a is BEFORE bb |??
?| b is AFTER aa |??
?| a is IBEFORE bb |??
?| b is IAFTER aa |?
?| a BEGINS bb |???
?| b is BEGUN BY aa |?
?| a ENDS bb |???
?| b is ENDED BY aa |?
?| a is DURING bb |?????
?| b is DURING INV aa |?????
?| a INCLUDES bb |?
?| b IS INCLUDED in aa |??
?|a is SIMULTANEOUS with bb |??
?|a |??
?| b a is IDENTITY with bTable 1: Temporal relations in TimeML annotationRecalling the low performances of currentlyavailable systems on the temporal relation extrac-tion task, including the state-of-the-art systems ac-cording to TempEval-3, it is still insufficient to usethe existing temporal relation extraction systemsto support real world applications, such as creat-ing event timelines and temporally-based questionanswering.
Therefore, as the first step we take asan objective finding ways to improve the currentstate-of-the-art performance on temporal relationextraction task.The common approach towards temporal rela-tion extraction is dividing the task into two sub-tasks: identifying the pairs of entities having a tem-poral link and determining the relation types.
Theproblem of identifying the entity pairs is usuallysimplified.
In TempEval-3, the possible pairs ofentities that can have a temporal link are defined as(i) main events of consecutive sentences, (ii) pairsof events in the same sentence, (iii) an event and atime expression in the same sentence, and (iv) anevent and the document creation time (UzZamanet al, 2013).
The problem of determining the labelof a given temporal link is usually regarded as aclassification problem.
Given an ordered pair ofentities (e1, e2) that could be either event-event,event-timex or timex-timex pair, the classifier hasto assign a certain label representing the temporalrelation type.We focus on the latter subtask of classifyingtemporal relation types, assuming that the linksbetween events and time expressions are alreadyestablished.
Several recent works have tried to ad-dress this complex multi-class classification taskby using sophisticated features based on deep pars-ing, semantic role labelling and discourse parsing(D?Souza and Ng, 2013; Laokulrat et al, 2013).
InMirza and Tonelli (2014) we have shown that a sim-pler approach, based on lexico-syntactic features,can achieve comparable results.A classification model is trained for each cate-gory of entity pair, i.e.
event-event, event-timexand timex-timex, as suggested in several previousworks (Mani et al, 2006; Chambers, 2013).
How-ever, because there are very few examples of timex-timex pairs in the training corpus, it is not possibleto train a classifier for these particular pairs.
More-over, they only add up to 3.2% of the total numberof extracted entity pairs; therefore, we decided todisregard these pairs.We follow the guidelines and the dataset pro-vided by the organizers of TempEval-3 so that wecan compare our system with other systems partici-pating in the challenge.
The TBAQ-cleaned corpusis the training set provided for the task, consistingof the TimeBank (Pustejovsky et al, 2003a) andthe AQUAINT corpora.
It contains around 100Kwords in total, with 11K words annotated as events(UzZaman et al, 2013).Simple Feature Set.
We implement a number offeatures including the commonly used ones (UzZa-man et al, 2013), which take into account morpho-syntactic information on events and time expres-sions, their textual context and their attributes.Other features rely on semantic information suchas typical event durations and explicit temporalconnective types.
However, we avoid complex pro-cessing of data.
Such semantic information is basedon external lists of lexical items and on the outputof the addDiscourse tagger (Pitler and Nenkova,2009).
We build our classification models using theSupport Vector Machine (SVM) implementationprovided by YamCha3.We perform feature engineering in order to se-lect from our initial set of features only those thatimprove the accuracy of the classifiers.
This allowsus to select the best classification models for bothevent-event pairs and event-timex pairs.Inverse Relations and Closure.
Motivated by thefinding of Mani et al (2006) that bootstrapping thetraining data through a temporal closure methodresults in quite significant improvements, we in-vestigate the effect of enriching the training datawith inverse relations and closure-based inferred3http://chasen.org/?taku/software/yamcha/12relations.However, we adopt a simpler approach to obtainthe closure graph of temporal relations, by applyingthe transitive closure only within the same relationtype, e.g.
e1BEFORE e2?
e2BEFORE e3 ?
e1BEFORE e3.
It produces only a subset of the rela-tions produced by the temporal closure (Verhagen,2005; Gerevini et al, 1995).
The problem of find-ing the transitive closure of a directed acyclic graphcan be reduced to a boolean matrix multiplication(Fischer and Meyer, 1971).Training data event-event event-timexTBAQ 48.28% 73.82%TBAQ-I 47.77% 74.45%TBAQ-IC 46.39% 74.45%Table 2: Classifier accuracies with differenttraining data: TBAQ (TimeBank+AQUAINT),TBAQ-I (TBAQ+inverse relations) and TBAQ-IC(TBAQ+inverse relations+transitive closure).Evaluation and Analysis.
Our test data is thenewly annotated TempEval-3-platinum evaluationcorpus provided by TempEval-3 organizers, so thatwe can compare our system with other systemsparticipating in the task.
First, to investigate theeffect of enriching the training data with inverserelations and transitive closure, we evaluate the sys-tem performance trained with different datasets, asshown in Table 2.
A randomization test betweenthe best performing classifier and the others showsthat by extending the training data with inverserelations and transitive closure, the improvementare not significant.
Applying inverse relations andtransitive closure extends the number of training in-stances but makes the already skewed dataset moreimbalanced, thus it does not result in a significantimprovement.We then train our classifiers for event-event pairsand event-timex pairs by exploiting the best featurecombination and using the best reported datasetfor each classifier as the training data.
The twoclassifiers are part of our temporal classificationsystem called TRelPro.Compared with the performances of other sys-tems participating in TempEval-3 reported in UzZa-man et al (2013), TRelPro is the best performingsystem both in terms of precision and of recall.The result of our system using simpler featuresconfirms the finding reported in UzZaman et al(2013), that a system using basic morpho-syntacticfeatures is hard to beat with systems using morecomplex semantic features, if not used properly.System F1 Precision RecallTRelPro 58.48% 58.80% 58.17%UTTime-1, 4 56.45% 55.58% 57.35%UTTime-3, 5 54.70% 53.85% 55.58%UTTime-2 54.26% 53.20% 55.36%NavyTime-1 46.83% 46.59% 47.07%NavyTime-2 43.92% 43.65% 44.20%JU-CSE 34.77% 35.07% 34.48%Table 3: TempEval-3 evaluation on the classifica-tion of temporal relation types4.2 Causal Relation ExtractionUnlike the temporal order that has a clear defini-tion, there is no consensus in the NLP communityon how to define causality.
Causality is not a lin-guistic notion, meaning that although language canbe used to express causality, causality exists asa psychological tool for understanding the worldindependently of language (van de Koot and Neele-man, 2012).
There have been several attempts inthe psychology field to model causality, includingthe counterfactual model (Lewis, 1973), proba-bilistic contrast model (Cheng and Novick, 1991;Cheng and Novick, 1992) and the dynamics model(Wolff and Song, 2003; Wolff et al, 2005; Wolff,2007), which is based on Talmy?s force dynamicaccount of causality (Talmy, 1985; Talmy, 1988).In information extraction, modelling causalityis only the first step in order to have guidelinesto recognize causal relations in a text.
In orderto have an automatic extraction system for causalrelations (particularly using a data-driven approach)and most importantly to evaluate the performanceof the developed extraction system, it is importantthat a language resource annotated with causalityis available.Even though there are several corpora anno-tated with causality, e.g.
Penn Discourse Tree-bank (PDTB) (Prasad et al, 2007) and PropBank(Palmer et al, 2005),4we are not aware of anystandard benchmarking corpus for evaluating eventcausality extraction, as it is available for temporalrelations in TimeML.
This motivates us to createa language resource annotated with both temporaland causal relations in a unified annotation scheme,for the main purpose of investigating the interac-tion between both types of relations.
It becomesthe objective of the second stage of our research, in4PDTB annotates causality between related clauses, whilePropBank annotates causality between a verb and its causeclause.13addition to building an automatic extraction systemfor event causality using the developed corpus.In Mirza et al (2014) we have proposed annota-tion guidelines for causality between events, basedon the TimeML definition of events, which consid-ers all types of actions (punctual and durative) andstates as events.
Parallel to the <TLINK> tag inTimeML for temporal relations, we introduced the<CLINK> tag to signify a causal link.
We alsointroduced the notion of causal signals through the<C-SIGNAL> tag, parallel to the <SIGNAL> tagin TimeML indicating temporal cues.C-SIGNAL.
C-SIGNAL is used to mark-up textualelements signalling the presence of causal relations,which include all causal uses of: prepositions (e.g.because of, as a result of, due to), conjunctions(e.g.
because, since, so that), adverbial connectors(e.g.
so, therefore, thus) and clause-integrated ex-pressions (e.g.
the reason why, the result is, that iswhy).CLINK.
A CLINK is a directional relation wherethe causing event is the source (indicated withSin the examples) and the caused event is the target(indicated withT).
The annotation of CLINKs alsoincludes the c-signalID attribute, with the value ofthe ID of C-SIGNAL marking the causal relation(if available).Wolff (2007) has shown that the dynamics modelcovers three main types of causal concepts, i.e.CAUSE, ENABLE and PREVENT.
The model hasbeen tested by linking it with natural language,Wolff and Song (2003) show that the three causalconcepts can be lexicalized as verbs : (i) CAUSE-type verbs, e.g.
cause, prompt, force; (ii) ENABLE-type verbs, e.g.
allow, enable, help; and (iii)PREVENT-type verbs, e.g.
block, prevent, restrain.Its connection with natural language becomes themain reason of basing our annotation guidelinesfor causality on the dynamics model.We limit the annotation of CLINKs to the pres-ence of an explicit causal construction linking twoevents, which can be one of the following cases:1.
Expressions containing affect verbs (affect,influence, determine, change), e.g.
Ogun ACNcrisisSinfluences the launchTof the All Pro-gressive Congress.2.
Expressions containing link verbs (link, lead,depend on), e.g.
An earthquakeTin NorthAmerica was linked to a tsunamiSin Japan.3.
Basic construction of causative verbs, e.g.The purchaseScaused the creationTof thecurrent building.4.
Periphrastic construction of causativeverbs, e.g.
The blastScaused the boat toheelTviolently, where the causative verb(caused) takes an embedded verb (heel) ex-pressing a particular result.5.
Expressions containing causative conjunc-tions and prepositions, which are annotatedas C-SIGNALs.Note that for causative verbs we consider sets ofverbs from all types of causal concepts includingCAUSE-type, ENABLE-type and PREVENT-typeverbs.Manual Annotation of Event Causality.
Havingthe annotation guidelines, we are about to completethe annotation of event causality.
We have anno-tated a subset of training corpus from TempEval-3used in the temporal relation extraction, i.e.
Time-Bank.
The agreement reached by two annotators ona subset of 5 documents is 0.844 Dice?s coefficienton C-SIGNALs (micro-average over markables)and 0.73 on CLINKs.After completing causality annotation, the nextstep will be to build an automatic extraction systemfor causal relations.
We will consider to use a su-pervised learning approach, as well as the similarfeatures employed for temporal relation classifica-tion task, in addition to lexical information (e.g.WordNet (Fellbaum, 1998), VerbOcean (Chklovskiand Pantel, 2004)) and the existing causal signals.4.3 Integrated Event Relation ExtractionDuring the last stage of our research work, we willinvestigate the interaction between temporal andcausal relations, given the temporal constraint ofcausality.
The ultimate goal is to build an integratedevent relation extraction system, that is capable ofautomatically extracting both temporal and causalrelations from text.Few works have investigated the interaction be-tween these two types of relations.
The corpusanalysis conducted by Bethard et al (2008) showsthat although it is expected that almost every causalrelation would have an underlying before relation,in reality, 32% of causal relations in the corpus arenot accompanied by underlying before relations.One of the possible causes is that the consideredevent pairs are conjoined event pairs under the am-biguous and conjunctive.14Consider the sentence ?The walls wereshakingTbecause of the earthquakeS.?
Lookingat the explicit causal mark because, there is a causalrelation between the events shaking and earthquake.However, according to Allen?s interval algebra orthe TimeML annotation framework we cannot saythat event earthquake occurred BEFORE the eventshaking, because both events happen almost atthe same time (could be SIMULTANOUS), and inboth frameworks there is no overlap in BEFORErelations.
During our manual annotation process,we encountered the case where the cause eventhappens after the effect, as in ?Some analystsquestionedThow much of an impact the retirementpackage will have, because few jobs will endSup being eliminated.?
Further investigations areneeded to address this issue.Rink et al (2010) makes use of manually anno-tated temporal relation types as a feature to builda classification model for causal relations betweenevents.
This results in 57.9% of F1-Score, 15% im-provement of performance in comparison with thesystem without the additional feature of temporalrelations.
The significant increase of performanceproves that the temporal relations between causalevents have a significant role in discovering causalrelations.
On the other hand, a brief analysis intoour preliminary result on temporal relation extrac-tion shows that there is a possibility to employcausality to improve the temporal relation classifi-cation of event-event pairs, specifically to reducethe number of false positives and false negatives ofBEFORE and AFTER relations scored by the sys-tem.
Our hypothesis is that temporal and causalrelations can be of mutual benefit to the extractionof each other.Taking into account different classificationframeworks and possible configurations for the in-tegrated system, for example, cascading the tempo-ral and causal relation extraction systems, or onesystem for both relation types in one pass, we willexplore the possibilities and evaluate their perfor-mances.
Furthermore, there is a possibility to ex-ploit a global optimization algorithm, as exploredby Chambers and Jurafsky (2008) and Do et al(2012), to improve the performance of a pairwiseclassification system.One possible classification algorithm under ourconsiderations, which can be used for extractingboth temporal and causal relations in one pass,is General Conditional Random Fields (CRFs).General CRFs allow us to train a classificationmodel with arbitrary graphical structure, e.g.
atwo-dimensional CRF can be used to perform bothnoun phrase chunking and PoS tagging at the sametime.
And its skip-chain mechanism allows us tocreate a chain of entity pairs, which may improvethe classification performance.5 ConclusionEvent extraction has become one of the most in-vestigated tasks of information extraction, sinceit is the key to many applications in natural lan-guage processing such as personalized news sys-tems, question answering and document summa-rization.
The extraction of relations that hold be-tween events is one of the subtasks within event ex-traction gaining more attention in the recent years,given the beneficial and promising applications.We have presented a research plan covering thetopic of automatic extraction of two event relationtypes, i.e.
temporal and causal relations, from natu-ral language texts.
While there has been a clearlydefined framework for temporal relation extractiontask, namely TempEval-3, there is none for causalrelation extraction.
Furthermore, since causalityhas a temporal constraint, we are interested in in-vestigating the interaction between temporal andcausal relations, in the context of events.We propose a three-stage approach to cover thisresearch topic.
The first stage includes improv-ing the state-of-the-art performance on temporalrelation extraction.
During the second stage wepropose an annotation scheme to create a corpusfor causal relations, based on the established anno-tation framework for events and temporal relations,namely TimeML.
The created language resourcewill then be used to build the automatic extractionsystem for causal relations, and also to providethe benchmarking evaluation corpus.
Finally, thelast stage includes investigating the interaction be-tween temporal and causal relations, in order tobuild an integrated system for event relation ex-traction, which is the ultimate goal of this researchwork.AcknowledgmentsThe research leading to this paper was partiallysupported by the European Union?s 7th Frame-work Programme via the NewsReader Project (ICT-316404).
We also thank Google for travel andconference support for this paper.15ReferencesJames Allan, editor.
2002.
Topic Detection andTracking: Event-based Information Organization.Kluwer Academic Publishers, Norwell, MA, USA.James F. Allen.
1983.
Maintaining knowledge abouttemporal intervals.
Commun.
ACM, 26(11):832?843, November.Steven Bethard, William Corvey, Sara Klingenstein,and James H. Martin.
2008.
Building a corpusof temporal-causal structure.
In Proceedings ofthe Sixth International Conference on Language Re-sources and Evaluation (LREC?08), Marrakech, Mo-rocco, May.
European Language Resources Associ-ation (ELRA).Nathanael Chambers and Dan Jurafsky.
2008.
Jointlycombining implicit constraints improves temporalordering.
In Proceedings of the Conference on Em-pirical Methods in Natural Language Processing,EMNLP ?08, pages 698?706, Stroudsburg, PA, USA.Association for Computational Linguistics.Nate Chambers.
2013.
Navytime: Event and time or-dering from raw text.
In Second Joint Conferenceon Lexical and Computational Semantics (*SEM),Volume 2: Proceedings of the Seventh InternationalWorkshop on Semantic Evaluation (SemEval 2013),pages 73?77, Atlanta, Georgia, USA, June.
Associa-tion for Computational Linguistics.Patricia W. Cheng and Laura R. Novick.
1991.
Causesversus enabling conditions.
Cognition, 40(1-2):83 ?120.Patricia W. Cheng and Laura R. Novick.
1992.
Co-variation in natural causal induction.
PsychologicalReview, 99(2):365?382.Timothy Chklovski and Patrick Pantel.
2004.
Ver-bocean: Mining the web for fine-grained semanticverb relations.
In Dekang Lin and Dekai Wu, ed-itors, Proceedings of EMNLP 2004, pages 33?40,Barcelona, Spain, July.
Association for Computa-tional Linguistics.Linguistic Data Consortium, 2005.
ACE (AutomaticContent Extraction) English Annotation Guidelinesfor Events.Quang Xuan Do, Wei Lu, and Dan Roth.
2012.
Jointinference for event timeline construction.
In Pro-ceedings of the 2012 Joint Conference on EmpiricalMethods in Natural Language Processing and Com-putational Natural Language Learning, EMNLP-CoNLL ?12, pages 677?687, Stroudsburg, PA, USA.Association for Computational Linguistics.Jennifer D?Souza and Vincent Ng.
2013.
Classifyingtemporal relations with rich linguistic knowledge.In Proceedings of the 2013 Conference of the NorthAmerican Chapter of the Association for Computa-tional Linguistics: Human Language Technologies,pages 918?927.Christiane Fellbaum, editor.
1998.
WordNet: An Elec-tronic Lexical Database.
MIT Press.Michael J. Fischer and Albert R. Meyer.
1971.Boolean matrix multiplication and transitive closure.In SWAT (FOCS), pages 129?131.
IEEE ComputerSociety.Aldo Gangemi, Nicola Guarino, Claudio Masolo,Alessandro Oltramari, and Luc Schneider.
2002.Sweetening ontologies with dolce.
In Proceedingsof the 13th International Conference on KnowledgeEngineering and Knowledge Management.
Ontolo-gies and the Semantic Web, EKAW ?02, pages 166?181, London, UK, UK.
Springer-Verlag.Alfonso Gerevini, Lenhart Schubert, and StephanieSchaeffer.
1995.
The temporal reasoning tools time-graph i-ii.
International Journal of Artificial Intelli-gence Tools, 4(1-2):281?299.Natsuda Laokulrat, Makoto Miwa, Yoshimasa Tsu-ruoka, and Takashi Chikayama.
2013.
Uttime: Tem-poral relation classification using deep syntactic fea-tures.
In Second Joint Conference on Lexical andComputational Semantics (*SEM), Volume 2: Pro-ceedings of the Seventh International Workshop onSemantic Evaluation (SemEval 2013), pages 88?92,Atlanta, Georgia, USA, June.
Association for Com-putational Linguistics.David Lewis.
1973.
Causation.
The Journal of Philos-ophy, 70(17):pp.
556?567.Inderjeet Mani, Marc Verhagen, Ben Wellner,Chong Min Lee, and James Pustejovsky.
2006.
Ma-chine learning of temporal relations.
In Proceedingsof the 21st International Conference on Compu-tational Linguistics and the 44th Annual Meetingof the Association for Computational Linguistics,ACL-44, pages 753?760, Stroudsburg, PA, USA.Association for Computational Linguistics.Paramita Mirza and Sara Tonelli.
2014.
Classifyingtemporal relations with simple features.
In Proceed-ings of the 14th Conference of the European Chapterof the Association for Computational Linguistics.Paramita Mirza, Rachele Sprugnoli, Sara Tonelli, andManuela Speranza.
2014.
Annotating causality inthe tempeval-3 corpus.
In Proceedings of the EACL-2014 Workshop on Computational Approaches toCausality in Language (CAtoCL).Martha Palmer, Daniel Gildea, and Paul Kingsbury.2005.
The proposition bank: An annotated corpusof semantic roles.
Comput.
Linguist., 31(1):71?106,March.Emily Pitler and Ani Nenkova.
2009.
Using syn-tax to disambiguate explicit discourse connectivesin text.
In Proceedings of the ACL-IJCNLP 2009Conference Short Papers, ACLShort ?09, pages 13?16, Stroudsburg, PA, USA.
Association for Compu-tational Linguistics.16Rashmi Prasad, Eleni Miltsakaki, Nikhil Dinesh, AlanLee, Aravind Joshi, Livio Robaldo, and Bonnie LWebber.
2007.
The penn discourse treebank 2.0 an-notation manual.
Technical report.J.
Pustejovsky, P. Hanks, R. Sauri, A. See,R.
Gaizauskas, A. Setzer, D. Radev, B. Sund-heim, D. Day, L. Ferro, et al 2003a.
The timebankcorpus.
In Corpus Linguistics, volume 2003,page 40.James Pustejovsky, Jos?e Casta?no, Robert Ingria, RoserSaur?
?, Robert Gaizauskas, Andrea Setzer, and Gra-ham Katz.
2003b.
Timeml: Robust specification ofevent and temporal expressions in text.
In Proceed-ings of the Fifth International Workshop on Compu-tational Semantics (IWCS-5).Bryan Rink, Cosmin Adrian Bejan, and Sanda M.Harabagiu.
2010.
Learning textual graph patternsto detect causal event relations.
In FLAIRS Confer-ence.Roser Saur?
?, Jessica Littman, Robert Gaizauskas, An-drea Setzer, and James Pustejovsky, 2006.
TimeMLAnnotation Guidelines, Version 1.2.1.Ryan Shaw, Rapha?el Troncy, and Lynda Hardman.2009.
Lode: Linking open descriptions of events.In Proceedings of the 4th Asian Conference on TheSemantic Web, ASWC ?09, pages 153?167, Berlin,Heidelberg.
Springer-Verlag.Leonard Talmy.
1985.
Force dynamics in lan-guage and thought.
Chicago Linguistic Society,21:293337.Leonard Talmy.
1988.
Force dynamics in languageand cognition.
Cognitive Science, 12(1):49?100.Naushad UzZaman, Hector Llorens, James F. Allen,Leon Derczynski, Marc Verhagen, and James Puste-jovsky.
2012.
Tempeval-3: Evaluating events,time expressions, and temporal relations.
CoRR,abs/1206.5333.Naushad UzZaman, Hector Llorens, Leon Derczyn-ski, James Allen, Marc Verhagen, and James Puste-jovsky.
2013.
Semeval-2013 task 1: Tempeval-3:Evaluating time expressions, events, and temporalrelations.
In Proceedings of the Seventh Interna-tional Workshop on Semantic Evaluation, SemEval?13, pages 1?9, Atlanta, Georgia, USA, June.
Asso-ciation for Computational Linguistics.H van de Koot and A Neeleman, 2012.
The Theta Sys-tem: Argument Structure at the Interface, chapterThe Linguistic Expression of Causation, pages 20 ?51.
Oxford University Press: Oxford.Willem Robert van Hage, V?eronique Malais?e, RoxaneSegers, Laura Hollink, and Guus Schreiber.
2011.Design and use of the simple event model (sem).Journal of Web Semantics, 9(2):128?136.Marc Verhagen.
2005.
Temporal closure in an annota-tion environment.
Language Resources and Evalua-tion, 39(2-3):211?241.Phillip Wolff and Grace Song.
2003.
Models of cau-sation and the semantics of causal verbs.
CognitivePsychology, 47(3):276 ?
332.Phillip Wolff, Bianca Klettke, Tatyana Ventura, andGrace Song, 2005.
Categorization inside and out-side the laboratory: Essays in honor of Douglas L.Medin.
APA decade of behavior series, chapter Ex-pressing Causation in English and Other Languages,pages 29?48.
Washington, DC, US: American Psy-chological Association, xx, 316 pp.Phillip Wolff.
2007.
Representing causation.
Journalof Experiment Psychology: General, 136:82?111.17
