Proceedings of the 52nd Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics: Tutorials, pages 11?12,Baltimore, Maryland, USA, 22 June 2014.c?2014 Association for Computational LinguisticsSemantics, Discourse and Statistical Machine TranslationDeyi Xiong and Min ZhangProvincial Key Laboratory for Computer Information Processing TechnologySoochow University, Suzhou, China 215006{dyxiong, minzhang}@suda.edu.cn1 DescriptionIn the past decade, statistical machine translation(SMT) has been advanced from word-based SMTto phrase- and syntax-based SMT.
Although thisadvancement produces significant improvementsin BLEU scores, crucial meaning errors and lackof cross-sentence connections at discourse levelstill hurt the quality of SMT-generated transla-tions.
More recently, we have witnessed two ac-tive movements in SMT research: one towardscombining semantics and SMT in attempt to gen-erate not only grammatical but also meaning-preserved translations, and the other towards ex-ploring discourse knowledge for document-levelmachine translation in order to capture inter-sentence dependencies.The emergence of semantic SMT are due to thecombination of two factors: the necessity of se-mantic modeling in SMT and the renewed interestof designing models tailored to relevant NLP/SMTapplications in the semantics community.
Theformer is represented by recent numerous studieson exploring word sense disambiguation, semanticrole labeling, bilingual semantic representations aswell as semantic evaluation for SMT.
The latteris reflected in CoNLL shared tasks, SemEval andSenEval exercises in recent years.The need of capturing cross-sentence dependen-cies for document-level SMT triggers the resur-gent interest of modeling translation from the per-spective of discourse.
Discourse phenomena, suchas coherent relations, discourse topics, lexical co-hesion that are beyond the scope of conventionalsentence-level n-grams, have been recently con-sidered and explored in the context of SMT.This tutorial aims at providing a timely andcombined introduction of such recent work alongthese two trends as discourse is inherently con-nected with semantics.
The tutorial has three parts.The first part critically reviews the phrase- andsyntax-based SMT.
The second part is devoted tothe lines of research oriented to semantic SMT,including a brief introduction of semantics, lex-ical and shallow semantics tailored to SMT, se-mantic representations in SMT, semantically mo-tivated evaluation as well as advanced topics ondeep semantic learning for SMT.
The third partis dedicated to recent work on SMT with dis-course, including a brief review on discourse stud-ies from linguistics and computational viewpoints,discourse research from monolingual to multilin-gual, discourse-based SMT and a few advancedtopics.The tutorial is targeted for researchers in theSMT, semantics and discourse communities.
Inparticular, the expected audience comes from twogroups: 1) Researchers and students in the SMTcommunity who want to design cutting-edge mod-els and algorithms for semantic SMT with varioussemantic knowledge and representations, and whowould like to advance SMT from sentence-by-sentence translation to document-level translationwith discourse information; 2) Researchers andstudents from the semantics and discourse com-munity who are interested in developing modelsand methods and adapting them to SMT.2 Outline1.
SMT Overall Review (30 minutes)?
SMT architecture?
phrase- and syntax-based SMT2.
Semantics and SMT (1 hour and 15 minutes)?
Brief introduction of semantics?
Lexical semantics for SMT?
Semantic representations in SMT?
Semantically Motivated Evaluation?
Advanced topics: deep semantic learn-ing for SMT?
Future directions113.
Discourse and SMT (1 hour and 15 minutes)?
Introduction of discourse: linguistics,computational and bilingual discourse?
Discourse-based SMT: modeling, train-ing, decoding and evaluation?
Future directions3 Bios of PresentersDr.
Deyi Xiong is a professor at Sochoow Uni-versity.
His research interests are in the area ofnatural language processing, particularly statisti-cal machine translation and parsing.
Previouslyhe was a research scientist at the Institute forInfocomm Research of Singapore.
He receivedthe B.Sc degree from China University of Geo-sciences (Wuhan, China) in 2002, the Ph.D.degreefrom the Institute of Computing Technology (Bei-jing, China) in 2007, both in computer science.
Hehas published papers in prestigious journals andconferences on statistical machine translation, in-cluding Computational Linguistics, IEEE TASLP,JAIR, NLE, ACL, EMNLP, AAAI and IJCAI.
Hewas the program co-chair of IALP 2012 and CLIAworkshop 2011.Dr.
Min Zhang, a distinguished professor andDirector of the Research Center of Human Lan-guage Technology at Soochow University (China),received his Bachelor degree and Ph.D. degree incomputer science from Harbin Institute of Tech-nology in 1991 and 1997, respectively.
From1997 to 1999, he worked as a postdoctoral re-search fellow in Korean Advanced Institute of Sci-ence and Technology in South Korea.
He beganhis academic and industrial career as a researcherat Lernout & Hauspie Asia Pacific (Singapore) inSep.
1999.
He joined Infotalk Technology (Singa-pore) as a researcher in 2001 and became a seniorresearch manager in 2002.
He joined the Institutefor Infocomm Research (Singapore) as a researchscientist in Dec. 2003.
He joined the SoochowUniversity as a distinguished professor in 2012.His current research interests include machinetranslation, natural language processing, informa-tion extraction, social network computing and In-ternet intelligence.
He has co-authored more than150 papers in leading journals and conferences,and co-edited 10 books/proceedings published bySpringer and IEEE.
He was the recipient of severalawards in China and oversea.
He is the vice pres-ident of COLIPS (2011-2013), the elected vicechair of SIGHAN/ACL (2014-2015), a steeringcommittee member of PACLIC (2011-now), anexecutive member of AFNLP (2013-2014) anda member of ACL (since 2006).
He supervisesPh.D students at National University of Singapore,Harbin Institute of Technology and Soochow Uni-versity.12
