Proceedings of the 52nd Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Short Papers), pages 725?731,Baltimore, Maryland, USA, June 23-25 2014.c?2014 Association for Computational LinguisticsConcreteness and Subjectivity as Dimensions of Lexical MeaningFelix HillComputer LaboratoryCambridge Universityfelix.hill@cl.cam.ac.ukAnna KorhonenComputer LaboratoryCambridge Universityanna.korhonen@cl.cam.ac.ukAbstractWe quantify the lexical subjectivity of ad-jectives using a corpus-based method, andshow for the first time that it correlateswith noun concreteness in large corpora.These cognitive dimensions together influ-ence how word meanings combine, andwe exploit this fact to achieve performanceimprovements on the semantic classifica-tion of adjective-noun pairs.1 IntroductionConcreteness, the degree to which language hasa perceptible physical referent, and subjectivity,the extent to which linguistic meaning depends onthe perspective of the speaker, are well establishedcognitive and linguistic notions.
Recent resultssuggest that they could also be useful knowledgefor natural language processing systems that aimto extract and represent the meaning of language.Insight into concreteness can help systems toclassify adjective-noun pairs according to their se-mantics.
In the non-literal expressions kill the pro-cess or black comedy, a verb or adjective that oc-curs with a concrete argument in literal phrasestakes an abstract argument.
Turney et al (2011)present a supervised model that exploits this effectto correctly classify 79% of adjective-noun pairsas having literal or non-literal meaning.Subjectivity analysis has already proved highlyapplicable to a range of NLP applications, includ-ing sentiment analysis, information extraction andtext categorization (Pang and Lee, 2004; Riloffand Wiebe, 2003).
For such applications, subjec-tivity is analyzed at the phrasal or document level.However, recent work has highlighted the applica-tion of subjectivity analysis to lexical semantics,for instance to the tasks of disambiguating wordsaccording to their usage or sense (Wiebe and Mi-halcea, 2006; Banea et al, 2014).The importance of concreteness to NLP systemsis likely to grow with the emergence of multi-modal semantic models (Bruni et al, 2012; Rollerand Schulte im Walde, 2013).
Such models, whichlearn representations from both linguistic and per-ceptual input, outperform text-only models on arange of evaluations.
However, while multi-modalmodels acquire richer representations of concreteconcepts, their ability to represent abstract con-cepts can be weaker than text-only models (Hill etal., 2013).
A principled treatment of concretenessis thus likely to be important if the multi-modalapproach is to prove effective on a wider range ofconcepts.
In a similar vein, interest in subjectiv-ity analysis is set to grow with interest in extract-ing sentiment and opinion from the web and socialmedia (Benson et al, 2011).
Moreover, given thathumans seem to exploit both concreteness (Paivio,1990) and subjectivity (Canestrelli et al, 2013)clues when processing language, it is likely thatthe same clues should benefit computational mod-els aiming to replicate human-level performancein this area.In this paper, we show how concreteness andsubjectivity can be applied together to produceperformance improvements on two classificationproblems: distinguishing literal and non-literaladjective-noun pairs (Turney et al, 2011), andclassifying the modification type exhibited bysuch pairs (Boleda et al, 2012).
We describe anunsupervised corpus-based method to quantify ad-jective subjectivity, and show that it effectivelypredicts the labels of a hand-coded subjectivitylexicon.
Further, we show for the first time thatadjective subjectivity correlates with noun con-creteness in large corpora.
In addition, we anal-yse the effect of noun concreteness and adjectivesubjectivity on meaning combination, illustratinghow the interaction of these dimensions enablesthe accurate classification of adjective-noun pairsaccording to their semantics.
We conclude by dis-725cussing other potential applications of concrete-ness and subjectivity to NLP.2 Dimensions of meaningConcreteness A large and growing body of em-pirical evidence indicates clear differences be-tween concrete concepts, such as donut or hot-dog and abstract concepts, such as guilt or obesity.Concrete words are more easily learned, remem-bered and processed than abstract words (Paivio,1991), while differences in brain activity (Binderet al, 2005) and cognitive representation (Hill etal., 2013) have also been observed.
In linguisticconctructions, concreteness appears to influencecompound and phrasal semantics (Traugott, 1985;Bowdle and Gentner, 2005; Turney et al, 2011).Together with the practical applications outlined inSection 1, these facts indicate the potential valueof concreteness for models aiming to replicate hu-man performance in language processing tasks.While automatic methods have been proposedfor the quantification of lexical concreteness, theyeach rely on dictionaries or similar hand-codedresources (Kwong, 2008; Turney et al, 2011).We instead extract scores from a recently releaseddataset of lexical concepts rated on a 1-5 scale forconcreteness by 20 annotators in a crowdsourcingexperiment (Brysbaert et al, 2013).1Subjectivity Subjectivity is the degree to whichlanguage is interpretable independently of thespeaker?s perspective (Langacker, 2002).
For ex-ample, the utterance he sits across the table ismore subjective than he sits opposite Sam as itstruth depends on the speaker?s position.
Languagemay also be subjective because it conveys evalua-tions or opinions (Mihalcea et al, 2007).Computational applications of subjectivity, in-cluding sentiment analysis and information ex-traction, have focused largely on phrase or doc-ument meaning.2In contrast, here we present sixcorpus-based features designed to quantify the lex-ical subjectivity of adjectives.
The features Com-parability and Modifiability are identified as pre-dictors of subjectivity by Wiebe (2000).
The re-mainder are motivated by corpus studies and/orobservations from the theoretical literature.31Available at http://crr.ugent.be/archives/1330.2See e.g.
(Wiebe and Riloff, 2011).3Several of the features here were applied by Hill (2012),to the task of ordering multiple-modifier strings.Adverbiability: Quirk et al (1985) theorizes thatsubjective adjectives tend to develop derived ad-verbial forms, whereas more objective adjectivesdo not.
We thus define adverbiability as the fre-quency of derived adverbial forms relative to thefrequency of their base form, e.g.
?hotly?hot+?hotlyComparability: Wiebe (2000) oberve that grad-able are more likely to be subjective.
FollowingWiebe, we note that the existence of comparativeforms for an adjective are indicative of gradabil-ity.
We thus define comparability as the frequencyof comparative or superlative forms relative to thefrequency of the base form, e.g.
?hotter +?hottest?hot+?hotter +?hottestLeftTendency: Adamson (2000) proposes thatmore subjective adjectives typically occur furthestfrom the noun in multiple-modifier strings such as(hot crossed buns).
We consequently extract theLeftTendency of our adjectives, defined as the fre-quency of occurrence as the leftmost of two ad-jectives as a proportion of the overall frequency ofoccurrence in multiple-modifier strings.Modifiability: Another characteristic of gradableadjectives noted by Wiebe (2000) is that they ad-mit degree modifiers (very/quite delicious).
Wetherefore extract the relative frequency of occur-rence with one of a hand-coded list of English de-gree modifiers.Predicativity: Bolinger (1967) proposed that sub-jective adjectives occur in predicative construc-tions (the cake is sweet), rather than attribu-tive constructions (the German capital) more fre-quently than objective adjectives.
We therefore ex-tract the relative frequency of occurrence in suchconstructions.Non-nominality: Many adjectives also functionas nouns (sweet cake vs. (boiled sweet).
Un-like nouns, many adjectives are inherently subjec-tive, and the number of adjectives in texts corre-lates with human judgements of their subjectivity(Hatzivassiloglou and Wiebe, 2000).
We there-fore extract the frequency with which concepts aretagged as adjectives relative to as nouns, on the726assumption that ?pure?
adjectives are on averagemore subjective than nominal-style adjectives.Concreteness meets Subjectivity Demonstra-ble commonalities in how different people per-ceive the physical world suggest that concrete lan-guage may be more objective than abstract lan-guage (Langacker, 1997).
Intuitively, adjectivesascribing physical properties (wooden shed) aremore objective than those conveying abstract traits(suspicious man).
Indeed, in certain cases theoriginal, apparently objective, senses of polyse-mous adjectives are not modifiable (very woodenshed?
), while their more abstract sense extensionsare (very wooden personality).Motivated by these observations, in the follow-ing sections we test two hypotheses.
(1) Subjec-tive / objective adjectives are more likely to mod-ify abstract / concrete nouns respectively.
(2) Sub-jectivity and concreteness can predict aspects ofhow adjective and noun concepts combine.3 AnalysisIn addressing (1), we extracted the 2,000 highest-frequency nouns from the Brysbaert et al (2013)concreteness dataset.
We denote by CONC(n)the mean concreteness rating for noun n. For the24,908 adjectives that occur in some adjective-noun pair with one of these nouns in the BritishNational Corpus (BNC) (Leech et al, 1994), weextracted subjectivity features from the GoogleBooks Corpus (Goldberg and Orwant, 2013).Since each of the six features takes values on [0, 1],we define the overall subjectivity of an adjective awith feature vector sa= [sa1.
.
.
sa6] asSUBJ(a) =6?i=1sai.To verify the quality of our subjectivity features,we measured their performance as predictors in alogistic regression classifying the 3,250 adjectiveslabelled as subjective or not in the Wilson et al(2005) lexicon.4The combination of all featuresproduced an overall classifiction accuracy of 79%.The performance of individual features as predic-tors in isolation is shown in Figure 1 (top).We first tested the relationship between con-creteness and subjectivity with a correlation anal-ysis over noun concepts.
For each noun n we de-4Available at http://mpqa.cs.pitt.edu/79.174.272.870.169.471.273.7CombinedAdverbiabilityModifiabilityPredicativityComparabilityLeftTendencyNonNominality0 20 40 60 80Feature Prediction Performance (% correct)?0.10.00.10.20.30.42 4 6CONC (noun concreteness)SUBJ (adjective subjectivity)Figure 1: Top: Performance of features inpredicting subjectivity labels from the Wilsonet al (2005) lexicon.
Bottom: Concreteness-subjectivity correlation in adj-noun pairs.a SUBJ(a) n CONC(n)flashy 1.98 umbrella 5honest 1.63 flask 5good 1.59 automobile 5Siberian 6.9?
10?4 virtue 1.49interglacial 6.3?
10?4 pride 1.46Soviet 1.9?
10?4 hope 1.18Table 1: The most and least subjective adjectivesand most and least concrete nouns in our data.fined its subjectivity profile as the mean of the sub-jectivity vectors of its modifying adjectivesSUBJpfl(n) =1|An|?a?Ansawhere the bag Ancontains an adjective a for eachoccurrence of the pair (a, n) in the BNC.
As hy-pothesized, CONC(n) was a significant predictorof the magnitude of the subjectivity profile (Pear-son r = ?0.421, p < 0.01).
This effect is illus-trated in Figure 1 (bottom).To explore the relationship between concrete-ness, subjectivity and meaning, we plotted the20,000 highest frequency (a, n) pairs in the BNCin the CONC-SUBJ semantic space (Figure 2,top).
In addition, to examine the effect of con-creteness alone on adjective-noun semantics, we727(a, n) ?
(a, n) ?white hope 4.61 mature attitude 4.05fresh hope 4.34 injured pride 4.03male pride 4.28 black mood 3.99wild hope 4.06 white spirit 3.93Table 2: The eight pairs with highest ?
=ExpCONC(a)?
CONC(n) in our data.defined a new adjective featureExpCONC(a) =1|Na|?n?NaCONC(n)where the bag Nacontains noun n for each occur-rence of the pair (a, n) in the BNC.
Figure 2 (bot-tom) illustrates the the CONC-ExpCONC space.In both spaces, the extremities reflect particularmeaning combination types.
Pairs in the bottom-left region of the CONC-SUBJ space (objectiveadjectives with abstract nouns, such as green pol-itics) seem to exhibit a non-literal, or at least nonprototypical modification type.
In contrast, forpairs in the objective+concrete corner, the adjec-tives appear to perform a classifying or categoriz-ing function (baptist minister).In the CONC-ExpCONC space, on the diag-onal, where noun-concreteness is ?as expected?,pairings appear to combine literally.
Away fromthe diagonal, meaning composition is less pre-dictable.
In the top-left, where ExpCONC isgreater than CONC, the combinations are almostall non-literal, as shown in Table 2.In this section we have outlined a set of corpusfeatures that, taken together, enable effective ap-proximation of adjective subjectivity.
The resultsof our analyses also demonstrate a clear interac-tion between subjectivity and concreteness scoresfor nouns attributed by human raters.
Specifi-cally, objective adjectives are more likely to mod-ify concrete nouns and subjective adjectives aremore likely to modify abstract nouns.
Qualita-tive investigations further suggest the interactionbetween these dimensions to be useful in the se-mantic characterization of adjective-noun pairs, aproposition we test formally in the next section.4 EvaluationWe evaluate the potential of our adjective subjec-tivity features, together with noun concreteness,to predict adjective-noun semantics, based on twoexisting classification tasks.middle:waymass:democracygreen:politicshardy:soullyric:fantasysoviet:attitudepublic:moneypop:musicrelative:peacelow:intelligenceexpensive:carserious:conditionhonest:manbaptist:ministerhindu:templedelicious:foodsincere:persondutiful:son?1012 4 6CONC (noun concreteness)SUBJ (adjective subjectivity)easy:meatnaked:truthtired:mindchief:objectivehot:issue fresh:airblue:skypublic:information local:prisonfuture:homeexpeditionary:forceregular:contactfunny:shapeunsettling:effectdiplomatic:bagpowdered:milksalty:water2345672 4 6CONC (noun concreteness)ExpCONC (adjective expected concreteness)Figure 2: Adjective-noun pairs in two semanticspaces.
Selected pairs are labelled for illustration,italics indicate non-literal meaning combinations.4.1 Non-literal Composition TaskTo evaluate their model of lexical concreteness,Turney et al (2011) developed a list of 100 com-mon adjective-noun pairs classified as either deno-tative (used literally) or connotative (non-literal)by five annotators.
Using an identical supervisedlearning procedure to Turney et al (logistic re-gression with 10-fold cross-validation), we testwhether our lexical representations based on sub-jectivity and concreteness convey sufficient infor-mation to perform the same classification.4.2 Modification-type ClassificationBoleda et al (2012) introduce a set of 370adjective-noun pairs grouped into modificationtypes by human judges.
Because a red car isboth a car and red, the pair is classed as intersec-tive, whereas dark humour, which is not literallydark, is classed as subsective.
To create a distinctbut analogous binary categorization problem to thecomposition task, we filtered out pairs not unani-mously allocated to either class.
We again aim toclassify the remaining 211 intersective and 93 sub-sective pairs with a logistic regression.728Feature type Composition ModificationBaseline 55.0 69.4Concreteness 83.0 72.7Subjectivity 64.0 70.4Combined 85.0 75.0Turney et al 79.0 -Table 3: Prediction accuracy (%) of models withdifferent features on the two tasks.
The baselinemethod allocates all test pairs to the majority class.4.3 ResultsModels were trained with concreteness features(CONC and ExpCONC), subjectivity features(SUBJ and SUBJpfl) and the combination of bothtypes (Combined).
The performance of eachmodel is presented in Table 3, along with a base-line score reflecting the strategy of allocating allpairs to the largest class.On the non-literal composition task, the con-creteness (83.0) and combined (85.0) models out-perform that of Turney et al (79.0).
The concrete-ness model performance represents further confir-mation of the link between concreteness and com-position.
The improvement of this model overTurney et al (2011) is perhaps to be expected,since our model exploits the wide scope of thenew Brysbaert et al (2013) crowdsourced datawhereas Turney et al infer concreteness scoresfrom a smaller training set.
Notably, our combinedmodel improves on the concreteness-only model,confirming that the interaction of concreteness andsubjectivity provides additional information perti-nent to meaning composition.The modification-type task has no performancebenchmark since Boleda et al (2012) do not usetheir data for classification.
Although all modelsimprove on the majority-class baseline, the com-bined model was again most effective.
Additiveimprovement over the baseline in each case waslower than for the composition task, which mayreflect the greater subtlety inherent in the sub-sective/intersective classification.
Indeed, inter-annotator agreement for this goldstandard (Co-hen?s ?
= 0.87) was lower than for the composi-tion task (0.95), implying a less cognitively salientdistinction.5 ConclusionWe have shown that objective adjectives are mostlikely to modify concrete nouns, and that non-literal combinations can emerge when this princi-ple is violated (Section 3).
Indeed, the occurrenceof an adjective with a more abstract noun thanthose it typically modifies is a strikingly consistentindicator of metaphoricity (Table 2).
In addition,we showed that both concreteness and subjectivityimprove the automatic classification of adjective-noun pairs according to compositionality or mod-ification type (Section 4).
Importantly, a classifierwith both subjectivity and concreteness featuresoutperforms concreteness-only classifiers, includ-ing those proposed in previous work.The results underline the relevance of both sub-jectivity and concreteness to lexical and phrasalsemantics, and their application to language pro-cessing tasks.
We hypothesize that concretenessand subjectivity are fundamental to human lan-guage processing because language is preciselythe conveyance of information about the worldfrom one party to another.
In decoding this sig-nal, it is clearly informative to understand to whatextent the information refers directly to the world,and also to what extent it reports a fact versus anopinion.
We believe these dimensions will ulti-mately prove essential for computational systemsaiming to replicate human performance in inter-preting language.
As the results suggest, they maybe particularly important for capturing the intrica-cies of semantic composition and thus extendingrepresentations beyond the lexeme.Of course, two dimensions alone are not suf-ficient to reflect all of the subtleties of adjectiveand noun semantics.
For instance, our model clas-sifies white spirit, a transparent cleaning product,as non-literal, since the lexical concreteness scoredoes not allow for strong noun polysemy.
Further,it makes no allowance for wider sentential context,which can be an important clue to modificationtype in such cases.We aim to address these limitations in futurework by integrating subjectivity and concretenesswith conventially acquired semantic representa-tions, and, ultimately, models that integrate inputcorresponding to the perceptual modalities.6 AcknowledgementsThe authors are supported by St John?s College,Cambridge and The Royal Society.729ReferencesSylvia Adamson.
2000.
A lovely little example.
InOlga Fischer, Annette Rosenbach, and Deiter Stein,editors, Pathways of change: Grammaticalization inEnglish.
John Benjamins.Carmen Banea, Rada Mihalcea, and Janyce Wiebe.2014.
Sense-level subjectivity in a multilingual set-ting.
Computer Speech & Language, 28(1):7?19.Edward Benson, Aria Haghighi, and Regina Barzilay.2011.
Event discovery in social media feeds.
InProceedings of the 49th Annual Meeting of the Asso-ciation for Computational Linguistics: Human Lan-guage Technologies-Volume 1, pages 389?398.
As-sociation for Computational Linguistics.Jeffrey R Binder, Chris F Westbury, Kristen A McK-iernan, Edward T Possing, and David A Medler.2005.
Distinct brain systems for processing concreteand abstract concepts.
Journal of Cognitive Neuro-science, 17(6):905?917.Gemma Boleda, Eva Maria Vecchi, Miquel Cornudella,and Louise McNally.
2012.
First-order vs. higher-order modification in distributional semantics.
InProceedings of the 2012 Joint Conference on Empir-ical Methods in Natural Language Processing andComputational Natural Language Learning, pages1223?1233.
Association for Computational Linguis-tics.Dwight Bolinger.
1967.
Adjectives in english: attribu-tion and predication.
Lingua, 18:1?34.Brian F Bowdle and Dedre Gentner.
2005.
The careerof metaphor.
Psychological review, 112(1):193.Elia Bruni, Gemma Boleda, Marco Baroni, and Nam-Khanh Tran.
2012.
Distributional semantics in tech-nicolor.
In Proceedings of the 50th Annual Meet-ing of the Association for Computational Linguis-tics: Long Papers-Volume 1, pages 136?145.
Asso-ciation for Computational Linguistics.Marc Brysbaert, Amy Beth Warriner, and Victor Ku-perman.
2013.
Concreteness ratings for 40 thou-sand generally known English word lemmas.
Be-havior research methods, pages 1?8.Anneloes R Canestrelli, Willem M Mak, and Ted JMSanders.
2013.
Causal connectives in discourseprocessing: How differences in subjectivity are re-flected in eye movements.
Language and CognitiveProcesses, 28(9):1394?1413.Yoav Goldberg and Jon Orwant.
2013.
A dataset ofsyntactic-ngrams over time from a very large cor-pus of english books.
In Second Joint Conferenceon Lexical and Computational Semantics, Associa-tion for Computational Linguistics, pages 241?247.Association for Computational Linguistics.Vasileios Hatzivassiloglou and Janyce M Wiebe.
2000.Effects of adjective orientation and gradability onsentence subjectivity.
In Proceedings of the 18thconference on Computational linguistics-Volume 1,pages 299?305.
Association for Computational Lin-guistics.Felix Hill, Douwe Kiela, and Anna Korhonen.
2013.Concreteness and corpora: A theoretical and prac-tical analysis.
ACL 2013 Workshop on CognitiveModelling and Computational Linguistics, CMCL2013, page 75.Felix Hill.
2012.
Beauty before age?
Applying sub-jectivity to automatic english adjective ordering.
InProceedings of the 2012 Conference of the NorthAmerican Chapter of the Association for Computa-tional Linguistics: Human Language Technologies:Student Research Workshop, pages 11?16.
Associa-tion for Computational Linguistics.Oi Yee Kwong.
2008.
A preliminary study on the im-pact of lexical concreteness on word sense disam-biguation.
In PACLIC, pages 235?244.Ronald W Langacker.
1997.
Consciousness, construaland subjectivity.
Language structure, discourse andthe access to consciousness.
Advances in Conscious-ness Research.
John Benjamins, pages 49?57.Ronald W Langacker.
2002.
Deixis and subjectiv-ity.
In Frank Brisard, editor, Grounding: The epis-temic footing of deixis and reference, pages 1?28.De Gruyter.Geoffrey Leech, Roger Garside, and Michael Bryant.1994.
Claws4: the tagging of the british nationalcorpus.
In Proceedings of ACL, pages 622?628.
As-sociation for Computational Linguistics.Rada Mihalcea, Carmen Banea, and Janyce Wiebe.2007.
Learning multilingual subjective languagevia cross-lingual projections.
In Annual Meeting ofthe Association for Computational Linguistics, vol-ume 45, page 976.Allan Paivio.
1990.
Mental Representations: A DualCoding Approach.
Oxford University Press.Allan Paivio.
1991.
Dual coding theory: Retrospectand current status.
Canadian Journal of Psychol-ogy/Revue canadienne de psychologie, 45(3):255.Bo Pang and Lillian Lee.
2004.
A sentimental educa-tion: Sentiment analysis using subjectivity summa-rization based on minimum cuts.
In Proceedings ofthe 42nd annual meeting on Association for Compu-tational Linguistics, page 271.
Association for Com-putational Linguistics.Randolph Quirk, David Crystal, and Pearson Educa-tion.
1985.
A Comprehensive Grammar of theEnglish Language, volume 397.
Cambridge UnivPress.Ellen Riloff and Janyce Wiebe.
2003.
Learning extrac-tion patterns for subjective expressions.
In Proceed-ings of the 2003 conference on Empirical methods in730natural language processing, pages 105?112.
Asso-ciation for Computational Linguistics.Stephen Roller and Sabine Schulte im Walde.
2013.A multimodal LDA model integrating textual, cog-nitive and visual modalities.
In Proceedings of the2013 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natu-ral Language Processing, pages 1146?1157, Seattle,Washington, USA.
Association for ComputationalLinguistics.Elizabeth C Traugott.
1985.
On regularity in semanticchange.
Journal of literary semantics, 14(3):155?173.Peter D Turney, Yair Neuman, Dan Assaf, and YohaiCohen.
2011.
Literal and metaphorical sense iden-tification through concrete and abstract context.
InProceedings of the 2011 Conference on the Empiri-cal Methods in Natural Language Processing, pages680?690.Janyce Wiebe and Rada Mihalcea.
2006.
Word senseand subjectivity.
In Proceedings of the 21st Inter-national Conference on Computational Linguisticsand the 44th annual meeting of the Association forComputational Linguistics, pages 1065?1072.
Asso-ciation for Computational Linguistics.Janyce Wiebe and Ellen Riloff.
2011.
Finding mutualbenefit between subjectivity analysis and informa-tion extraction.
Affective Computing, IEEE Trans-actions on, 2(4):175?191.Janyce Wiebe.
2000.
Learning subjective adjectivesfrom corpora.
In AAAI/IAAI, pages 735?740.Theresa Wilson, Janyce Wiebe, and Paul Hoffmann.2005.
Recognizing contextual polarity in phrase-level sentiment analysis.
In Proceedings of the con-ference on human language technology and empiri-cal methods in natural language processing, pages347?354.
Association for Computational Linguis-tics.731
