Proceedings of the ACL 2014 Student Research Workshop, pages 18?25,Baltimore, Maryland USA, June 22-27 2014.c?2014 Association for Computational LinguisticsTowards a Discourse Relation-aware Approachfor Chinese-English Machine TranslationFrances YungNara Institute of Science and Technology8916-5 Takayama, Ikoma, Nara, 630-0192 Japanpikyufrances-y@is.naist.jpAbstractTranslation of discourse relations is oneof the recent efforts of incorporating dis-course information to statistical machinetranslation (SMT).
While existing worksfocus on disambiguation of ambiguousdiscourse connectives, or transformationof discourse trees, only explicit discourserelations are tackled.
A greater challengeexists in machine translation of Chinese,since implicit discourse relations are abun-dant and occur both inside and outside asentence.
This thesis proposal describesongoing work on bilingual discourse anno-tation and plans towards incorporating dis-course relation knowledge to a Chinese-English SMT system with consideration ofimplicit discourse relations.
The final goalis a discourse-unit-based translation modelunbounded by the traditional assumptionof sentence-to-sentence translation.1 IntroductionHuman translation is created at document level,suggesting that translation of a particular sentencedepends also on the ?discourse structure?.
Re-cently, some MT researchers have started to ex-plore the possibility to incorporate linguistic in-formation outside the sentence boundary for MT,such as topical structure, coreference chains, andlexical coherence.
Among various discourse struc-tures, discourse relations, also known as coher-ence relations, are meaningful relations connect-ing text segments and are crucial to the humancognitive processing as well as memory of texts(Sanders and Noordman, 2000).
These relationscan be explicitly marked in a text by signalingphrases or implicitly implied.
Even when theyare explicit, some markers are ambiguous anddo not always signal the same relation.
In ad-dition, strategies to represent discourse relationsvary across languages.
It is thus a challenging taskto correctly translate discourse relations.This thesis proposal presents my plan to-wards building a discourse-relation-aware ma-chine translation system translating from Chineseto English.
In particular, I would like to focus onmodeling the translation of implicit discourse re-lations, which has not yet been exploited to dateto my knowledge, but is yet a noticeable problemsince implicit discourse relations are abundant inChinese.
According to the statistics of the bilin-gual discourse annotation in progress, about 1/4 ofthe Chinese implicit DCs are translated to explicitDCs in English.A reasonable initial attempt to learn discourse-relation-aware translation rules is a knowledge-based approach based on an annotated corpus.This proposal describes my ongoing work on an-notating and cross-lingually aligning discourse re-lations in a Chinese-English translation corpus, aswell as my plans to incorporate the resulting lin-guistic markup into an SMT system.
Motivated bythe characteristics of long Chinese sentences withmultiple discourse segments, a further direction ofthe research is to translate in units of discoursesegments instead of sentences.Section 2 gives an overview of existing litera-ture.
Section 3 explains the motivations behind myresearch on discourse relations for MT.
Section 4describes my ongoing work of bilingual discourseannotation, followed by statistics to date .
Section5 present my plans for next steps.
Finally, a con-clusion is drawn in Section 6.2 Survey2.1 English discourse processingThere are a number of discourse-annotated En-glish resources, including the ?RST Treebank?
(Carlson et al, 2001) and the ?Discourse Graph-Bank?
(Wolf and Gibson, 2005), which consist18of 385 and 135 articles respectively.
Recent dis-course research often make use of the large-scaledPenn Discourse Treebank (PDTB) (Prasad etal., 2008).
Departed from annotation using pre-defined discourse relations, such as ?RhetoricalStructure Theory?
(Mann and Thompson, 1988),PDTB introduces a lexically-ground formalismto annotate discourse relations by identifyingthe discourse connectives (DCs).
An example isshown in the following.Example 1: Since McDonald?s menu pricesrose this year, the actual decline may have beenmore.
(PDTB 1280)?Since?
is an explicit DC taking the italic seg-ment as the first argument (Arg1), and the boldedsegment as the second argument (Arg2), which issyntactically attached to the DC.
Implicit DCs areinserted by annotators between adjacent sentencesof the same paragraph to represent inferred dis-course relations.
Each DC is annotated with de-fined senses classified into 3 levels of granularity.PDTB allows evaluation of English discourseparsing tasks and disambiguation tasks (Pitler andNenkova, 2009; Lin et al, 2010), which revealthat implicit discourse relations are much harder tolearn than explicit discourse relations (Pitler et al,2009; Zhou et al, 2010).
For example, classifica-tion of the 4 main relation senses (temporal, con-tingency, comparison, expansion) reaches 94% ac-curacy for explicit relations (Pitler and Nenkova,2009), but only range from F-scores of 20% for?temporal?
to 76% for ?expansion?
relations, pos-sibly due to unbalanced number of training in-stances (Pitler et al, 2009; Zhou et al, 2010).2.2 Chinese discourse processingSchemes for Chinese discourse annotation havebeen proposed in the existing literature (Xue,2005; Zhou and Xue, 2012) but the correspondingresource is not yet available.
Zhou et al (2012)proposed to project English discourse annotationand classification algorithms to Chinese data, butthe transfer was based on automatic word align-ment and machine translation results.
Works inChinese discourse parsing report F-scores of 64%in classification of inter-sentence discourse rela-tions and 71% in 2-way classification of intra-sentence contingency and comparison relations(Huang and Chen, 2011; Huang and Chen, 2012),training on a moderately sized (81 articles) corpusand considering explicit and implicit relations col-lectively.
Corelation between discourse relationand sentiment was also explored based on anno-tated data (Huang et al, 2013).2.3 Discourse relations in SMTEarlier studies of discourse relations in MT in-cludes Marcu et al (2000), which proposed adiscourse transfer model to re-construct the tar-get discourse tree from the source discourse tree,parsed by the (RST).
However, incorporation toan SMT system was not discussed in the work.Recent works focus on the translation of ambigu-ous DCs, such as ?since?
in the temporal sense vs.?since?
in the reason sense.
This is achieved byannotating the DCs in the training data by ?trans-lation spotting?, which is to manually align theDCs of the source text to their translation in thetarget text, either occurring as DCs or other ex-pressions (Meyer et al, 2011; Popescu-Belis et al,2012; Meyer et al, 2012; Meyer and Polakova,2013; Cartoni et al, 2013).
Experiments of theseworks have been conducted in English-to-French,Czech and German translation and only explicitDCs were considered.Tu et al (2013) proposed a framework forChinese-to-English translation, in which thesource text is automatically parsed by an RSTparser and translation rules are extracted fromthe source discourse trees aligned with the targetstrings.
An improvement of 1.16 BLEU point isreported, considering only intra-sentential explicitrelations.Meyer et al (2012) found that the translation ofDC improves by up to 10% disregarded of BLEU,which stays around the baseline system score.To detect the improvement, they used a metricknown as ACT (Accuracy of Connective Transla-tion) (Hajlaoui and Popescu-Belis, 2012; Hajlaouiand Popescu-Belis, 2013), which relies on bilin-gual word alignment and a dictionary of DCs.
Inthe setting, missing/additional DC (i.e.
potentialimplicitation/explicitation of discourse relations)are to be checked manually for the validity.3 MotivationThe motivation behind a discourse-relation-awaretranslation model for Chinese is two-fold.
Firstof all, on top of ambiguous discourse connectivesas in other languages, Chinese documents contain19abundant implicit connectives (Xue, 2005).
In par-ticular, complex sentences often occur in the formof ?running sentences?, in which loose clauses runin a sequence separated by commas yet withoutexplicit connectives.
Such sentence structures areused to represent the temporal or reasoning or-der or related events, or simply to achieve con-sistent rhythmic patterns.
In contrast, syntacticalconstraint is prominent in English and this kindof ?paratactic?
structures only occur as occasionalrhetorical measures.
In other cases, relations be-tween clauses within a sentence are marked by co-ordinating or subordinating conjunctions in orderto maintain an intact sentence structure.Another motivation is that translation inunits of sentences is not always preferable inChinese-English translation.
In fact, each comma-separated segment of a ?running sentence?
canbe considered as an elementary discourse units(EDU) (Yang and Xue, 2012; Zhou and Xue,2012) and aligned across the two languages.In current SMT models, sentence splitting isthe result of the language model or translationrules containing periods or sentence initialmarkers.
A long Chinese ?running sentence?is typically translated to one English sentencewith ?comma splices?
(ungrammatical commasbetween complete sentences without connectingby conjunctions).
On the other hand, discoursestructure provides clues to split the source sen-tence.
It is because some DCs only relate EDUswithin the same sentences (e.g.
?but?, ?because?
)while some only relate with the previous sentence(e.g.
?however?, ?in addition?
)(Stepanov andRiccardi, 2013).Example 2 shows two versions of English trans-lation of a Chinese sentence as output by GoogleTranslate.
Note that in the original Chinesesentence, all the DCs are omitted to achieve aquadruplet pattern.
Implicit DCs, represented byglossed words in brackets, can be inserted to eachcomma-separated clause to signal the discourserelations.
Without explicit DCs, the MT output(MT original) results in a sequence of brokenclauses, whereas with inserted DCs (MT w/DC),the clauses are joined by the translated DCs toa complete sentence.
In addition, the droppedpronoun ?you?
is properly generated, potentiallydue to improvement in syntactical parsing of thesource sentence.Example 2Source: (??-if)?????????(?-then)??????(??-but)?????(??-furthermore)?????(?-and)????
?MT original: Difficult to pay taxes, may suspendarrears, the new tex is not owed, penalties linkedtax free, paid annually.MTw/DC: If you have difficulty to pay taxes, youcan suspend the arrears, but the new tax is notowed and taxes linked to impunity and paid an-nually.Ref: Those having difficulty paying taxes can tem-porarily postponing old debt but not owing on newtaxes, and suspending taxes and waiving fines,and paying off year by year.
(adapted from Chinese Tree Bank Art.89)4 Work in progress: Cross-lingualannotation of discourse relationsTowards building a statistical machine translationsystem that tackles discourse relations specifically,I started manually annotating a Chinese-Englishtranslation corpus with discourse relations.
Thepurpose of annotation is not only to create data butalso to understand the problems in Chinese dis-course processing and translation.
The completedannotation is planned to be released.Comparing with representation of discourse re-lations by analytical definitions, the PDTB-styledassociation of discourse relations to lexical con-nectives is more compatible to the proceduresof statistical machine translation.
Therefore, thePDTB convention is adopted for the annotation ofconnectives on both sides of the parallel corpus.Instead of sense annotation, the DCs are alignedin similar manner as the ?translation spotting?
ap-proach (Meyer et al, 2011; Popescu-Belis et al,2012; Cartoni et al, 2013).
In other words, the?senses?
are disambiguated by the translation ofthe DCs.
The data used is the English ChineseTranslation Treebank (Bies et al, 2007), whichconsists of 325 Chinese news stories translatedinto 146,300 words of English.
Adaptations madeto capture the cross-lingual difference in discourserelations are explained in the following.4.1 EDU segmented by punctuationsIn the PDTB, the span of each EDU (Arg1 orArg2), which can range from a single noun to mul-tiple sentences, are manually annotated.
While20each WSJ paragraph1contains three sentences onaverage, the typical ?running sentences?
in Chi-nese are exceptionally long.
It is hard for an-notators to agree on an EDU span, and neitherdoes it have direct effect on the DC translation.Therefore, I follow previous works (Yang andXue, 2012; Zhou and Xue, 2012) and consider asegment separated by Chinese punctuations, espe-cially commas, as the span of an EDU.Nonetheless, there are exceptions since Chinesecommas are used arbitrarily to signify ?pauses?
inthe sentence.
Three original tags are defined to an-notate the exceptions: ?ATTribution?
, ?initializedADVerbial?, and ?OPTional comma?
(refer to Ta-ble 1).
These are designed for training of auto-matic EDU segmentation.4.2 Explicit DCsAfter recognizing a valid EDU on the sourcetext, explicit DC(s) in the EDU are tagged ?EXP?and aligned to their translation on the target side,which are not necessarily explicit DCs.
In con-trast with the defined list of subordinating con-junctions, coordinating conjunctions and adver-bials, DCs are not limited to any syntactical cat-egories in this scheme so as to improve the cover-age of cross-lingual annotation.
For example, ?atthe same time?
and ?in spite of the fact that?
are an-notated as DC instances, since they function as theDCs ?simultaneously?
and ?although?
respectively,independent of context.In addition, conjunctions between VP construc-tions, which are not annotated in the PDTB, arealso annotated as explicit DCs.
It is because sub-jects are often dropped in Chinese and many EDUswill be ignored if VP constructions are excluded.4.3 Discourse markers alternative to DCsDiscourse relations can be explicitly marked bynon-DC expressions that are context dependent.Following the PDTB scheme, the ?ALTLex?
tagis used to annotate such alternative lexicalizationof discourse relations.
However, with a loose defi-nition of DC, few alternative expressions are iden-tified.
Therefore, the ?ALT?
tag is defined onlyon the English side, which particularly serves tomark non-DC translation of Chinese DCs.
Typi-cally, English prepositions are tagged ?ALT?
andaligned to Chinese DCs that do not correspondwith any English DCs.
For example, ?
???
is1A paragraph is considered an independent document inthe PDTB.
This annotation scheme follows this assumption.a common DC for the ?method?
relation, yet thereis not a DC for this relation in English and thus itis often translated to ?by?
or ?through?.4.4 Categorization of DCsIt is observed that subtly different DCs need notbe distinguished for translation, thus they are an-notated as variations of a same DC.
For exam-ple, explicit occurrences of ?in addition?, ?addi-tionally?, ?moreover?, ?furthermore?
and ?besides?,all listed as distinct DCs in PDTB, are annotatedas instances of ?in addition?, and ???
?, ????,?
??
?, ?
???
as instances of ?
???
(literally?but?).
An unambiguous DC is used to representthe DC type, such as ?since?
as an instance of ?be-cause?
but not the reverse.Assigning DCs variations to an unambiguoustype can serve as sense annotation without an ab-stract taxonomy of senses.
External DC lexiconcan also be flexibly added by registering new DCentries to existing categories.
On the other hand,DCs that are not interchangeable in the syntacticalcontext, such as ?but?
and ?however?, are treated asdistinct DC types in order to deduce discriminativetranslation rules.4.5 Implicit DCsIn order to produce translation rules for all dis-course relations, including the unmarked ones, im-plicit DCs (IMP) are inserted after all explicit DCsare identified in the Chinese EDU.
A correspond-ing implicit DC is also inserted, if possible, astranslation of a Chinese DC (explicit or implicit)when explicit translation is not identified.
Notethat implicit DCs are always annotated by a DCtype instead of a variation to avoid ambiguity.The IMP tag is used to annotate parallel DCstructures in Chinese.
Most Chinese discourse re-lations are marked by ?parallel DCs?, which aresimilar to English patterns such as ?either...or?,?if...then?, ?not only...but also?.
However, one orboth DCs in the parallel structure can be droppedin Chinese.
The dropped DCs are inserted as IMPand aligned to the English side.After the first round of the annotation, anotherannotator is to repeat the annotation with the set ofDCs recognized by the first annotator.
Since im-plicit discourse relations lack lexical signals, theannotator agreement is lower (72% for English(Miltsakaki et al, 2004)).
I plan to include im-plicit DC annotations of both annotators as multi-ple readings or coexisting DCs of the implicit re-lations, thus multiplying the training instances.214.6 RedundancyUsually, two EDUs are related by one DC in En-glish, thus only one of the Chinese parallel DCsis translated to explicitly.
To learn this transla-tion rule, the untranslated DC is thus aligned toa?REDundant?
tag attached to the correspondingEnglish EDU.
To mark Chinese DCs that alwaysoccur independently rather than in parallel struc-ture, the EDU without a DC is also annotated as?RED?.
The various types of tags for DC annota-tion are summarized in Table 1.Tags for aligned ?DC?Chinese EnglishEXP EXP explicit DC identifiedIMP IMP implicit DC insertable- ALT expressions alternative to DCRED RED ungrammatical to insert DCTags for Non-EDU Chinese segmentsATT source of attributionADV adverbial initializedOPT optional comma for a rhythmic pauseTable 1: Tags for Chi-Eng DC annotations4.7 Primary analysis of the annotationTo date, 82 articles (about 33000 English words,about 1/3 of the complete dataset) have been an-notated, giving rise to 2050 aligned discourse rela-tions.
In addition, 486 punctuation-separated seg-ments on the Chinese side have been identified asnon-EDU segments.
59 DC types for Chinese and47 for English have been identified.Chi -/- Eng EXP.
ALT.
IMP.
RED.
TotalEXP.
291 68 23 49 431IMP.
396 144 770 261 1561RED.
6 0 0 52 58Total 693 212 783 362 2050attribute - - - - 211optional - - - - 89adverbial - - - - 186Total - - - - 486Table 2: Distribution of alignment between differ-ent ?DC?
typesThe distribution of alignments between thesetypes is shown in Table 2.
Although the statis-tics are not directly comparable to other existingdata due to difference in definitions, it agrees withprevious findings that implicit DCs are abundantin Chinese (Zhou and Xue, 2012).
According tothe present data, about 1/4 of the implicit DCs aretranslated to explicit DCs in English.
However,more than half are not explicitly translated (im-plicit or redundant).
This suggests that implicitDC recovery can be focused on the those that arelikely to be translated explicitly.It is also observable that explicit Chinese DCsare mostly translated to an explicit DC in English,while about 1/6 of them are translated to non-DC expressions.
As mentioned, these are mostlyprepositions corresponding to discourse relationsthat are not defined by any DCs in English.
Thissuggests that bilingual discourse annotation canrecover a larger variation of universal discourserelations than monolingual annotation.
Further ex-ploratory analysis will be conducted to investigatethe tendency in discourse relation markedness andalignment, so as to define informative linguisticfeatures for model training.Currently, I am using the MAE annotationtool(Stubbs, 2011).
The annotation effort can belightened by developing an interface that assiststhe multilingual annotation task by, for example,automatic EDU segmentation (to be reviewed byannotators) and automatic identification and pre-alignment of DCs based on a DC dictionary.5 Future plansThe key of this research is to integrate the an-notated discourse knowledge into an SMT sys-tem.
Integration of document level parse to MT,as described in Marcu et al (2000) for Japanese-to-English translation, is complicated.
In addi-tion, comparing with Japanese, the word order inChinese and English are not drastically different.Therefore, I plan to make use of information fromDC-based shallow discourse parse.
My main taskstowards this system include:1.
Cross-lingual DC annotation2.
EDU segmentation3.
Prediction of source implicit DCs4.
Integration to SMT system5.
DC-aware MT evaluationA flowchart of these tasks is shown in Figure 1 andexplained in the following.5.1 EDU segmentationDiscourse parsing can be divided to the tasksof DC identification and argument identification,22Figure 1: Main tasks for proposed DC-aware SMT system.where the latter can be further divided into argu-ment position and argument span identification.
InChinese, a punctuation-separated segment is ba-sically considered an EDU, so the span is fixed.The exceptional cases of commas not segmentingan EDU are annotated in the dataset and can bepredicted in a binary classification task using lex-ical and syntactical features, as in Yang and Xue(2012).
On the other hand, a text segment cancontain more than one EDU when there are mul-tiple DCs, thus further segmentation is necessarydepending on DC identification.5.2 Prediction of source implicit DCsOne focus of this research is to explicitize implicitChinese DCs when translating to English.
I plan toconstruct a model to predict implicit discourse re-lations in the Chinese source text.
Previous workson Chinese discourse relation recognitions (Yue,2006; Huang and Chen, 2011) provide insights onthe prediction task and the DC annotated corpusprovides data for supervised training.
Althoughstate-of-the-art implicit discourse parsing is stillof low accuracy, the preciseness can be adjustedto suit the goal of machine translation.
As in otherjoint tasks with MT, such as Bouamor et al (2013),features of whether the implicit DC can be trans-lated explicitly, or correctly, can in incorporatedto the prediction task, so as to predict translatableimplicit DCs in particular.5.3 Integration to SMT systemOne way to exploit discourse knowledge into anSMT system is to incorporate the predicted dis-course features, such as implicit DC, DC sequenceor DC type, into a factored translation model(Koehn and Hoang, 2007).
Another approach is todecorate identified and predicted DCs in a syntac-tical parsed tree, so as to enrich the tree-to-stringrules with DC markedness features.
Moreover,when a source DC is translated to a sentence initialDC, a source sentence is potentially split to mul-tiple target sentences.
A document level decoder(Hardmeier et al, 2012) that searches beyond thesentence boundary is thus preferred.5.4 DC-aware MT evaluationComparable evaluation is essential for MT re-search, yet conventional MT metrics, such asBLEU, is not effective in detecting improvementin discourse relation translation (Meyer et al,2012).
One direction is to extend the ACT metrics(Hajlaoui and Popescu-Belis, 2013) to access alsotranslation of implicit DCs.
Another direction is todefine a measure that is not reference-dependent,since implicit relations can be translated in variousways.
Moreover, conventional MT metrics, whichcompare a candidate with the reference sentence-by-sentence, have to be modified when used to ac-cess the overall MT performance of the proposedsystem, since the output sentences may not alignwith the reference sentences one-by-one.6 ConclusionIn this thesis proposal, ongoing work and futureplans have been presented towards a discourse-relation-aware SMT system.
The research canserve as basis for the goal of a document-level MTsystem that considers various discourse structures.AcknowledgementI would like to thank Baidu for travel and confer-ence support for this paper.23ReferencesAnn Bies, Martha Palmer, Justin Mott, and ColinWarner.
2007.
English chinese translation treebankv 1.0.
Linguistic Data Consortium LDC2007T02,January.Houda Bouamor, Behrang Mohit, and Kemal Oflazer.2013.
Sumt: A framework of summarization andmt.
Proceedings of the International Conference onNatural Language Processing.Lynn Carlson, Daniel Marcu, and Mary EllenOkurowski.
2001.
Building a discourse-tagged cor-pus in the framework of rhetorical structure theory.Proceedings of the SIGdial Workshop on Discourseand Dialogue.Bruno Cartoni, Sandrine Zufferey, and Thomas Meyer.2013.
Annotating the meaning of discourse connec-tives by looking at their translation: The translation-spotting technique.
Dialogue and Discourse, 4(2).Najeh Hajlaoui and Andrei Popescu-Belis.
2012.Translating english discourse connectives into ara-bic: a corpus-based analysis and an evaluation met-ric.
Proceedings of the Workshop on ComputationalApproaches to Arabic Script-based Languages.Najeh Hajlaoui and Andrei Popescu-Belis.
2013.
As-sessing the accuracy of discourse connective trans-lations: Validation of an automatic metric.
Compu-tational LInguistics and Intelligent Text Processing,7617.Christian Hardmeier, Joakim Nivre, and J?org Tiede-mann.
2012.
Document-wide decoding for phrase-based statistical machine translation.
Proceedings ofthe Joint Conference on Empirical Methods in Nat-ural Language Processing and Computational Nat-ural Language Learning.Hen-Hsen Huang and Hsin-Hsi Chen.
2011.
Chinesediscourse relation recognition.
Proceedings of theInternational Conference on Natural Language Pro-cessing.Hen-Hsen Huang and Hsin-Hsi Chen.
2012.
Contin-gency and comparison relation labelling and struc-ture prediction in chinese sentences.
Proceedings ofthe Annual Meeting of the Special Interest Group onDiscourse and Dialogue.Hen-Hsen Huang, Chi-Hsin Yu, Tai-Wei Chang, Cong-Kai lin, and Hsin-Hsi Chen.
2013.
Analyses ofthe association between discourse relation and sen-timent polarity with a chinese human-annotated cor-pus.
Proceedings of the Linguistic Annotation Work-shop and Interperability with Discourse.Philipp Koehn and Hieu Hoang.
2007.
Factored trans-lation models.
Proceedings of the Joint Confer-ence on Empirical Methods in Natural LanguageProcessing and Computational Natural LanguageLearning.Ziheng Lin, Hwee Tou Ng, and Min Yen Kan. 2010.
Apdtb-styled end-to-end discourse parser.
Technicalreport, National University of Singapore.William C. Mann and Sandra A. Thompson.
1988.Rhetorical structure theory: Toward a functional the-ory of text organization.
Text.Daniel Marcu, Lynn Carlson, and Maki Watanabe.2000.
The automatic translation of discourse struc-tures.
Proceedings of the North American Chapterof the Association for Computational Linguistics.Thomas Meyer and Lucie Polakova.
2013.
Machinetranslation with many manually labeled discourseconnectives.
Proceedings of the Discourse in Ma-chine Translation Workshop.Thomas Meyer, Andrei Popescu-Belis, Sandrine Zuf-ferey, and Bruno Cartoni.
2011.
Multilingual anno-tation and disambiguation of discourse connectivesfor machine translation.
Proceedings of the AnnualMeeting of the Special Interest Group on Discourseand Dialogue.Thomas Meyer, Andrei Popescu-Belis, and Najeh Ha-jlaoui.
2012.
Machine translation of labeled dis-course connectives.
Proceedings of the BiennialConference of the Association for Machine Trans-lation in the Americas.Eleni Miltsakaki, Rashmi Prasad, Aravind Joshi, andBonnie Webber.
2004.
Annotating discourse con-nectives and their arguments.
Proceedings of theWorkshop on Frontiers in Corpus Annotations.Emily Pitler and Ani Nenkova.
2009.
Using syntax todisambiguate explicit discourse connectives in text.Proceedings of the Annual Meeting of the Associa-tion for Computational Linguistics and the Interna-tional Joint Conference on Natural Language Pro-cessing.Emily Pitler, Annie Louis, and Ani Nenkova.
2009.Automatic sense prediction for implicit discourse re-lations in text.
Proceedings of the Annual Meeting ofthe Association for Computational Linguistics andthe International Joint Conference on Natural Lan-guage Processing.Andrei Popescu-Belis, Thomas Meyer, JeevanthiLiyanapathirana, Bruno Cartoni, and Sandrine Zuf-ferey.
2012.
Discourse-level annotation over eu-roparl for machine translation: Connectives and pro-nouns.
Proceedings of the Language Resource andEvaluation Conference.Rashmi Prasad, Nikhit Dinesh, Alan Lee, Eleni Milt-sakaki, Livio Robaldo, Aravind Joshi, and BonnieWebber.
2008.
The penn discourse treebank 2.0.Proceedings of the Language Resource and Evalua-tion Conference.Ted Sanders and Leo Noordman.
2000.
The role ofcoherence relations and their linguistic markers intext processing.
Discourse Processes, 1.24Evgeny A. Stepanov and Giuseppe Riccardi.
2013.Comparative evaluation of argument extraction al-gorithms in discourse relation parsing.
Proceedingsof the International Conference on Parsing Tech-nologies.Amber Stubbs.
2011.
Mae and mai: lightweight an-notation and adjudication tools.
Proceedings of theLinguistic Annotation Workshop.Mei Tu, Yu Zhou, and Chengqing Zong.
2013.
A noveltranslation framework based on rhetorical structuretheory.
Proceedings of the Annual Meeting of theAssociation for Computational Linguistics.Florian Wolf and Edward Gibson.
2005.
Representingdiscourse coherence: a corpus-based analysis.
Com-putational Linguistics.Nianwen Xue.
2005.
Annotating discourse connec-tives in the chinese treebank.
Proceedings of theWorkshop on Frontiers in Corpus Annotations.Yaqin Yang and Nianwen Xue.
2012.
Chinese commadisambiguation for discourse analysis.
Proceedingsof the Annual Meeting of the Association for Com-putational Linguistics.Ming Yue.
2006.
Discursive usage of six chinese punc-tuation marks.
Proceedings of the Annual Meet-ing of the Association for Computational Linguis-tics and International Conference on ComputationalLinguistics.Yuping Zhou and Nianwen Xue.
2012.
Pdtb-style dis-course annotation of chinese text.
Proceedings ofthe Annual Meeting of the Association for Computa-tional Linguistics.Zhi-Min Zhou, Yu Xu, Zheng-Yu Niu, Man Lan, JianSu, and Chew Lim Tan.
2010.
Predicting discourseconnectives for implicit discourse relation recogni-tion.
Proceedings of the International Conferenceon Computational Linguistics.Lan Jun Zhou, Wei Gao, Binyang Li, Zhongyu Wei,and Kam-Fat Wong.
2012.
Cross-lingual iden-tification of ambiguous discourse connectives forresource-poor language.
Proceedings of the Inter-national Conference on Computational Linguistics.25
