Proceedings of the 52nd Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Short Papers), pages 112?117,Baltimore, Maryland, USA, June 23-25 2014.c?2014 Association for Computational LinguisticsConstructing a Turkish-English Parallel TreeBankOlcay Taner Y?ld?z?, Ercan Solak?, Onur G?org?un?,?
?and Razieh Ehsani??Is?
?k University, Istanbul, Turkey?
?Alcatel Lucent Teletas?
Telekom?unikasyon A.S?., Istanbul, Turkey{olcaytaner,ercan,razieh.ehsani}@isikun.edu.tronur.gorgun@alcatel-lucent.comAbstractIn this paper, we report our preliminary ef-forts in building an English-Turkish paral-lel treebank corpus for statistical machinetranslation.
In the corpus, we manuallygenerated parallel trees for about 5,000sentences from Penn Treebank.
Englishsentences in our set have a maximum of15 tokens, including punctuation.
We con-strained the translated trees to the reorder-ing of the children and the replacementof the leaf nodes with appropriate glosses.We also report the tools that we built andused in our tree translation task.1 IntroductionTurkish is an agglutinative and morphologicallyrich language with a free constituent order.
Al-though statistical NLP research on Turkish hastaken significant steps in recent years, much re-mains to be done.
Especially for the annotated cor-pora, Turkish is still behind similar languages suchas Czech, Finnish, or Hungarian.
For example,EuroParl corpus (Koehn, 2002), one of the biggestparallel corpora in statistical machine translation,contains 22 languages (but not Turkish).
Althoughthere exist some recent works to produce paral-lel corpora for Turkish-English pair, the producedcorpus is only applicable for phrase-based training(Yeniterzi and Oflazer, 2010; El-Kahlout, 2009).In recent years, many efforts have been made toannotate parallel corpora with syntactic structureto build parallel treebanks.
A parallel treebankis a parallel corpus where the sentences in eachlanguage are syntactically (if necessary morpho-logically) annotated, and the sentences and wordsare aligned.
In the parallel treebanks, the syntacticannotation usually follows constituent and/or de-pendency structure.
Well-known parallel treebankefforts are?
Prague Czech-English dependency treebankannotated with dependency structure (Cme-jrek et al, 2004)?
English-German parallel treebank, annotatedwith POS, constituent structures, functionalrelations, and predicate-argument structures(Cyrus et al, 2003)?
Link?oping English-Swedish parallel treebankthat contains 1,200 sentences annotated withPOS and dependency structures (Ahrenberg,2007)?
Stockholm multilingual treebank that con-tains 1,000 sentences in English, German andSwedish annotated with constituent structure(Gustafson-Capkova et al, 2007)In this study, we report our preliminary effortsin constructing an English-Turkish parallel tree-bank corpus for statistical machine translation.Our approach converts English parse trees intoequivalent Turkish parse trees by applying severaltransformation heuristics.
The main componentsof our strategy are (i) tree permutation, where wepermute the children of a node; and (ii) leaf re-placement, where we replace English word tokenat a leaf node.This paper is organized as follows: In Section 2,we give the literature review for parallel treebankconstruction efforts in Turkish.
In Section 3, wegive a very brief overview on Turkish syntax.
Wegive the details of our corpus construction strategyin Section 4 and explain our transformation heuris-tics in Section 5.
Finally, we conclude in Section6.2 Literature ReviewTurkish Treebank creation efforts started with theMETU-Sabanc?
dependency Treebank.
METU-Sabanc?
Treebank explicitly represents the head-dependent relations and functional categories.
In112order to adapt the corpus written in 1990?s Turk-ish to further studies, a subset of 7.262 sentencesof the corpus was manually annotated morpho-logically and syntactically (Atalay et al, 2003).METU-Sabanc?
Treebank is then used in manyTurkish NLP studies (Eryigit and Oflazer, 2006;Yuret, 2006; Riedel et al, 2006; Ruket andBaldridge, 2006; Eryigit et al, 2006; Eryigit et al,2008).METU-Sabanc?
Treebank is also subject totransformation efforts from dependency-structureto constituency-structure.
Combinatory Categori-cal Grammar (CCG) is extracted from the METU-Sabanc?
Treebank with annotation of lexical cat-egories (Cakici, 2005).
Sub-lexical units reveal-ing the internal structure of the words are usedto generate a Lexical Grammar Formalism (LGF)for Turkish with the help of finite state ma-chines (Cetinoglu and Oflazer, 2006; Cetinogluand Oflazer, 2009).Swedish-Turkish parallel treebank is the firstparallel Treebank effort for Turkish (Megyesi etal., 2008).
The treebank is a balanced syntacticallyannotated corpus containing both fiction and tech-nical documents.
In total, it consists of approxi-mately 160,000 tokens in Swedish and 145,000 inTurkish.
Parallel texts are linguistically annotatedusing different layers from part of speech tags andmorphological features to dependency annotation.English-Swedish-Turkish parallel treebank(Megyesi et al, 2010), mainly the successor ofthe Swedish-Turkish parallel treebank, consistsof approximately 300,000 tokens in Swedish,160,000 in Turkish and 150,000 in English.
Themajority of the original text is written in Swedishand translated to Turkish and/or English.
Forthe syntactic description, dependency structure ischosen instead of the constituent structure.
Alldata is automatically annotated with syntactic tagsusing MaltParser (Nivre et al, 2006a).
MaltParseris trained on the Penn Treebank for English,on the Swedish treebank Talbanken05 (Nivre etal., 2006b), and on the METU-Sabanc?
TurkishTreebank (Atalay et al, 2003), respectively.ParGram parallel treebank (Sulger et al, 2013)is a joint effort for the construction of a par-allel treebank involving ten languages (English,Georgian, German, Hungarian, Indonesian, Nor-wegian, Polish, Turkish, Urdu, Wolof) from sixlanguage families.
The treebank is based on deepLexical-Functional Grammars that were devel-oped within the framework of the Parallel Gram-mar effort.
ParGram treebank allows for the align-ment of sentences at several levels: dependencystructures, constituency structures and POS infor-mation.3 Turkish syntaxTurkish is an agglutinative language with richderivational and inflectional morphology throughsuffixes.
Word forms usually have a complex yetfairly regular morphotactics.Turkish sentences have an unmarked SOV or-der.
However, depending on the discourse, con-stituents can be scrambled to emphasize, topical-ize and focus certain elements.
Case markingsidentify the syntactic functions of the constituents,(Kornfilt, 1997).4 Corpus construction strategyIn order to constrain the syntactic complexity ofthe sentences in the corpus, we selected from thePenn Treebank II 9560 trees which contain a maxi-mum of 15 tokens.
These include 8660 trees fromthe training set of the Penn Treebank, 360 treesfrom its development set and 540 trees from itstest set.
In the first phase of our work, we trans-lated 4247 trees of the training set and all of thosein the development and the test sets.4.1 ToolsManual annotation is an error prone task.
Fromsimple typos to disagreements among annotators,the range of errors is fairly large.
An annotationtool needs to help reduce these errors and help theannotator locate them when they occur.
Moreover,the tool needs to present the annotator with a vi-sual tree that is both easy to understand and ma-nipulate for the translation task.We built a range of custom tools to display, ma-nipulate and save annotated trees in the treebank.The underlying data structure is still textual anduses the standard Treebank II style of syntacticbracketing.We also implemented a simple statistical helperfunction within the tool.
When translating an En-glish word to a gloss in Turkish, the translator maychoose from a list of glosses sorted according theirlikelihood calculated over their previous uses insimilar cases.
Thus, as the corpus grows in size,the translators use the leverage of their previouschoices.113Figure 1: A screenshot of the tree translation toolFigure 1 shows a screenshot of our tree transla-tion tool.4.2 Tree permutationIn translating an English syntactic tree, we confineourselves to two operations.
We can permute thechildren of a node and we can replace the Englishword token at a leaf node.
No other modificationof the tree is allowed.
In particular, we use thesame set of tags and predicate labels in the non-leaf nodes and do not use new tags for the Turkishtrees.
Adding or deleting nodes are not allowedeither.This might seem like a rather restrictive viewof translation.
Indeed, it is very easy to constructpairs of translated sentences which involve opera-tions outside our restricted set when transformedinto each other.However, we use the following method to alle-viate the restrictions of the small set of operations.We use the *NONE* tag when we can not useany direct gloss for an English token.
In itself,this operation corresponds to effectively mappingan English token to a null token.
However, whenwe use the *NONE* tag, permute the nodes andchoose the full inflected forms of the glosses inthe Turkish tree, we have a powerful method toconvert subtrees to an inflected word.
The tree inFigure 2. illustrates this.
Note that the POS tag se-quence VP-RB-MD-PRP in the Turkish sentencecorresponds to the morphological analysis ?gec?-NEG-FUT-2SG?
of the verb ?gec?meyeceksin?.
Ingeneral, we try to permute the nodes so as to cor-respond to the order of inflectional morphemes inthe chosen gloss.SVPVP VB passRB notMD willNP-SBJ PRP YouSNP-SBJ PRP *NONE*VPMD *NONE*RB *NONE*VP VB gec?meyeceksinFigure 2: The permutation of the nodes andthe replacement of the leaves by the glosses or*NONE*.5 Transformation heuristicsWhen we have a sufficiently rich corpus of paral-lel trees, our next step is to train a SMT learnerto imitate the human translator who operates un-der our restricted set of operations.
Naturally, hu-man translators often base their transformation de-cisions on the whole tree.
Still, having a commonset of rules and heuristics helps the translators inboth consistency and speed.
In the following, weillustrate these heuristics.1145.1 Constituent and morpheme orderMajority of unmarked Turkish sentences have theSOV order.
When translating English trees, wepermute its shallow subtrees to reflect the changeof constituent order in Turkish.Also, the agglutinative suffixes of Turkishwords dictate the order when permuting the con-stituents which correspond to prepositions andparticles.The semantic aspects expressed by preposi-tions, modals, particles and verb tenses in En-glish in general correspond to specific morphemesattached to the corresponding word stem.
Forexample, ?Ali/NNP will/MD sit/VB on/IN a/DTchair/NN?
is literally translated asAli bir sandalye-ye otur-acak.Ali a chair-DAT sit-FUT.If we embed a constituent in the morphemes ofa Turkish stem, we replace the English constituentleaf with *NONE*.In some cases, the personal pronouns acting assubjects are naturally embedded in the verb inflec-tion.
In those cases, pronoun in the original treeis replaced with *NONE* and its subtree is movedto after the verb phrase.
See Figure 3.S.
.VPVPPPNPNN chairDT theIN onVB sitRB notMD willNP-SBJ PRP IS.
.NP-SBJ PRP *NONE*VPMD *NONE*RB *NONE*VPVB oturmayaca?g?mPPIN *NONE*NPNN sandalyeyeDT *NONE*Figure 3: Original and translated trees,sandalye-ye otur-ma-yaca?g-?mchair-DAT sit-NEG-FUT-1SG5.2 The determiner ?the?There is no definite article in Turkish correspond-ing to ?the?.
Depending on the context, ?the?
istranslated either as *NONE* or one of the demon-strative adjectives in Turkish, corresponding to?this?
and ?that?
in English.
See Figure 3 .5.3 Case markersTurkish, being a fairly scrambling language, usescase markers to denote the syntactic functions ofnouns and noun groups.
For example, accusativecase may be used to mark the direct object of atransitive verb and locative case may be used tomark the head of a prepositional phrase.
In trans-lation from English to Turkish, the prepositionsare usually replaced with *NONE* and their cor-responding case is attached to the nominal head ofthe phrase.
See Figure 4.SVPPPNP PRP meIN atNPNN ballDT theVBD threwNP NNP AliSVPVBD att?PPIN *NONE*NP PRP banaNPNN topuDT *NONE*NP NNP AliFigure 4: Original and translated trees,Ali top-u ban-a at-t?Ali ball-ACC me-DAT throw-PAST-3SG5.4 Plural in nouns and verb inflectionNumber agreement between the verb in the pred-icate and the subject is somewhat loose in Turk-ish.
We preserved this freedom in translation andchose the number inflection that sounds more nat-ural.
Also, plural nouns under NNS tag in the En-glish tree are sometimes translated as singular.
Inthose cases, we kept the original POS tag NNS in-tact but used the singular gloss.
See Figure 5.5.5 Tense ambiguityIt is in general not possible to find an exact map-ping among the tense classes in a pair of lan-guages.
When translating the trees, we mappedthe English verb tenses to their closest semanticclasses in Turkish while trying to keep the over-all flow of the Turkish sentence natural.
In manycases, we mapped the perfective tense in Englishto the past tense in Turkish.
Similarly, we some-times mapped the present tense to present contin-uous.
See Figure 5.115SVPVPNPNNS applesCD threeVBN eatenVBP haveNPNNS childrenDT TheSVPVBP *NONE*VPVBN yediNPNNS elmaCD ?uc?NPNNS c?ocuklarDT *NONE*Figure 5: Original and translated trees,C?ocuk-lar ?uc?
elma ye-diChild-PL three apple eat-PAST-3SG5.6 WH- QuestionsQuestion sentences require special attention dur-ing transformation.
As opposed to movementin English question sentences, any constituent inTurkish can be questioned by replacing it with aninflected question word.
In the Penn TreebankII annotation, the movement leaves a trace andis associated with wh- constituent with a numericmarker.
For example, ?WHNP-17?
and ?
*T*-17?are associated.When we translate the tree for a questionsentence, we replace the wh- constituent with*NONE* and replace its trace with the appropri-ate question pronoun in Turkish.
See Figure 6.SBARQ.
?SQVPNP -NONE- *T*-1VB believeADVP RB reallyNP-SBJNNP BushNNP GeorgeVBZ doesWHNP-1 WP whatRB SoSBARQ.
?SQVBZ *NONE*VPVB inan?yorNP -NONE- neyeADVP RB gerc?ektenNP-SBJNNP BushNNP GeorgeWHNP-1 WP *NONE*RB PekiFigure 6: Original and translated trees,Peki George Bush gerc?ekten ne-ye inan-?yor?So George Bush really what-DATbelieve-PRES-3SG?5.7 MiscellanyIn the translation of nominal clauses, the copulamarker ?-dIr?
corresponding to verb ?be?
is oftendropped.The proper nouns are translated with their com-mon Turkish gloss if there is one.
So, ?London?becomes ?Londra?.Subordinating conjunctions, marked as ?IN?
inEnglish sentences, are transformed to *NONE*and the appropriate participle morpheme is ap-pended to the stem in the Turkish translation.A multiword expression may correspond to asingle English word.
Conversely, more than onewords in English may correspond to a single wordin Turkish.
In the first case, we use the multiwordexpression as the gloss.
In the latter case, we re-place some English words with *NONE*.6 ConclusionParallel treebank construction efforts increasedsignificantly in the recent years.
Many paralleltreebanks are produced to build statistically stronglanguage models for different languages.
In thisstudy, we report our preliminary efforts to buildsuch a parallel corpus for Turkish-English pair.We translated and transformed a subset of parsetrees of Penn Treebank to Turkish.
We cover morethan 50% of all sentences with a maximum lengthof 15-words including punctuation.This work constitutes the preliminary step ofparallel treebank generation.
As a next step, wewill focus on morphological analysis and disam-biguation of Turkish words.
After determining thecorrect morphological analysis of Turkish words,we will use the parts of these analyses to re-place the leaf nodes that we intentionally left as?*NONE*?.
As a future work, we plan to expandthe dataset to include all Penn Treebank sentences.ReferencesLars Ahrenberg.
2007.
Lines: An english-swedish par-allel treebank.Nart B. Atalay, Kemal Oflazer, and Bilge Say.
2003.The annotation process in the Turkish treebank.
In4th International Workshop on Linguistically Inter-preted Corpora.Ruken Cakici.
2005.
Automatic induction of a ccggrammar for Turkish.
In ACL Student ResearchWorkshop.116Ozlem Cetinoglu and Kemal Oflazer.
2006.Morphology-syntax interface for Turkish lfg.
InComputational Linguistics and Annual Meeting ofthe Association.Ozlem Cetinoglu and Kemal Oflazer.
2009.
Integrat-ing derivational morphology into syntax.
In RecentAdvances in Natural Language Processing V.Martin Cmejrek, Jan Haji, and Vladislav Kubo.
2004.Prague czech-english dependency treebank: Syntac-tically annotated resources for machine translation.In In Proceedings of EAMT 10th Annual Confer-ence, page 04.Lea Cyrus, Hendrik Feddes, and Frank Schumacher.2003.
FuSe ?
a multi-layered parallel treebank.In Joakim Nivre and Erhard Hinrichs, editors, Pro-ceedings of the Second Workshop on Treebanks andLinguistic Theories, 14?15 November 2003, V?axj?o,Sweden (TLT 2003), volume 9 of MathematicalModelling in Physics, Engineering and CognitiveSciences, pages 213?216, V?axj?o.
V?axj?o UniversityPress.Ilknur D. El-Kahlout.
2009.
Statistical machine trans-lation from english to turkish (ph.d. thesis).Gulsen Eryigit and Kemal Oflazer.
2006.
Statisticaldependency parsing for Turkish.
In 11th Conferenceof the European Chapter of the Association for Com-putational Linguistics.Gulsen Eryigit, Esref Adali, and Kemal Oflazer.
2006.T?urkc?e c?umlelerin kural tabanl?
ba?gl?l?k analizi.
In15th Turkish Symposium on Artificial Intelligenceand Neural Networks.Gulsen Eryigit, Joakim Nivre, and Kemal Oflazer.2008.
Dependency parsing of Turkish.
Computa-tional Linguistics.Sofia Gustafson-Capkova, Yvonne Samuelsson, andMartin Volk.
2007.
Smultron (version 1.0) -the stockholm multilingual parallel treebank.
anenglish-german-swedish parallel treebank with sub-sentential alignments.Philipp Koehn.
2002.
Europarl: A multilingual corpusfor evaluation of machine translation.J.
Kornfilt.
1997.
Turkish.
Routledge.Be?ata Megyesi, Bengt Dahlqvist, Eva Pettersson, andJoakim Nivre.
2008.
Swedish-turkish parallel tree-bank.
In LREC.Be?ata Megyesi, Bengt Dahlqvist,?Eva?A.
Csat?o, andJoakim Nivre.
2010.
The english-swedish-turkishparallel treebank.
In LREC.Joakim Nivre, Johan Hall, and Jens Nilsson.
2006a.Maltparser: A data-driven parser-generator for de-pendency parsing.
In In Proc.
of LREC-2006, pages2216?2219.Joakim Nivre, Jens Nilsson, and Johan Hall.
2006b.Talbanken05: A swedish treebank with phrase struc-ture and dependency annotation.
In In Proceedingsof the fifth international conference on LanguageResources and Evaluation (LREC2006, pages 24?26.S.
Riedel, Ruket Cakici, and I. Meza-Ruiz.
2006.Multi-lingual dependency parsing with incrementalinteger linear programming.Ruket and Jason Baldridge.
2006.
Projective and non-projective Turkish parsing.
In Fifth InternationalWorkshop on Treebanks and Linguistic Theories.Sebastian Sulger, Miriam Butt, Tracy Holloway King,Paul Meurer, Tibor Laczk?o, Gy?orgy R?akosi, CheikhM.
Bamba Dione, Helge Dyvik, Victoria Ros?en,Koenraad De Smedt, Agnieszka Patejuk,?OzlemC?etinoglu, I Wayan Arka, and Meladel Mistica.2013.
Pargrambank: The pargram parallel treebank.In ACL (1), pages 550?560.Reyyan Yeniterzi and Kemal Oflazer.
2010.
Syntax-to-morphology mapping in factored phrase-based sta-tistical machine translation from english to turkish.In Proceedings of the 48th Annual Meeting of the As-sociation for Computational Linguistics, ACL ?10,pages 454?464, Stroudsburg, PA, USA.
Associationfor Computational Linguistics.Deniz Yuret.
2006.
Dependency parsing as a classifi-cation problem.
In Proceedings of the Tenth Confer-ence on Computational Natural Language Learning.117
