Proceedings of the 52nd Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (Short Papers), pages 848?853,Baltimore, Maryland, USA, June 23-25 2014.c?2014 Association for Computational LinguisticsUnderstanding Relation Temporality of EntitiesTaesung Lee and Seung-won HwangDepartment of Computer Science and EngineeringPohang University of Science and Technology (POSTECH)Pohang, Republic of Korea{elca4u, swhwang}@postech.eduAbstractThis paper demonstrates the importanceof relation equivalence for entity trans-lation pair discovery.
Existing approachof understanding relation equivalence hasfocused on using explicit features of co-occurring entities.
In this paper, we ex-plore latent features of temporality for un-derstanding relation equivalence, and em-pirically show that the explicit and latentfeatures complement each other.
Our pro-posed hybrid approach of using both ex-plicit and latent features improves relationtranslation by 0.16 F1-score, and in turnimproves entity translation by 0.02.1 IntroductionUnderstanding relations is important in entitytasks.
In this paper, we illustrate such importanceusing named entity (NE) translation mining prob-lem.
Early research on NE translation used pho-netic similarities, for example, to mine the trans-lation ?Mandelson????????
[ManDeErSen]with similar sounds (Knight and Graehl, 1998;Wan and Verspoor, 1998).
However, not all NEtranslations are based on transliterations, but theymight be based on semantics (e.g., ?WTO????????
[ShiMaoZuZhi]), or even arbitrary (e.g.,?Jackie Chan??????
[ChengLong]).To address this challenge, current state-of-the-art approaches build an entity graph for each lan-guage corpus, and align the two graphs by prop-agating the seed translation similarities (Figure 1)(Kim et al, 2011; You et al, 2012).
For exam-ple, arbitrary translation pair such as (Jackie Chan,??)
can be obtained, if he is connected to hisfilm ?DrunkenMaster?
(??)
in both graphs.
Thatis, we can propagate the seed translation similar-ity of (Drunken Master,??)
to neighbor entities?Jackie Chan?
and ????
in each graph.??
(Drunken Master) ??
(Kung Fu)??
(Hong Kong)??
(Jackie Chan)Drunken MasterKung FuHong KongJackie ChanEnglish Entity Graph Chinese Entity GraphKnown translations Propagated translationsFigure 1: Entity translation by propagation.When two graphs are obtained from parallelcorpora, graphs are symmetric and ?blind prop-agation?
described above is effective.
In con-trast, Lee and Hwang (2013) propose ?selectivepropagation?
for asymmetric graphs, of compar-ing the semantics of relations.
A key contri-bution of this paper is using relation temporal-ity for determining relation equivalence.
Exist-ing work (Nakashole et al, 2012; Mohamed etal., 2011; Lee and Hwang, 2013) uses only co-occurring entity pairs, or explicit features (EF).For example, for a relation pay an official visit to,with a statement (Bush, pay an official visit to, China),an entity pair (Bush, China) is in the ?supportset?, which is a set of co-occurring entity pairsof pay an official visit to.
When its support set is{(Bush, China), (Mandelson, Moscow), (Rice, Is-rael)}, and that of visit is {(Bush, China), (Rice,Israel), (Medvedev, Cuba)}, we can infer their se-mantic equivalence based on the set intersection:{(Bush, China), (Rice, Israel)}.In contrast, we propose to explore corpus latentfeatures (LF), to complement the sparsity problemof EF: Out of 158 randomly chosen correct re-lation translation pairs we labeled, 64% has onlyone co-occurring entity pair, which makes EF notvery effective to identify these relation transla-tions.
Therefore, we leverage relation temporality,which is both orthogonal and complementary toexisting efforts leveraging entity temporality (Kle-848mentiev and Roth, 2006; Kim et al, 2012; Youet al, 2013).
In particular, we discover three newchallenges on using temporality for relation under-standing in comparable corpora, which we discussin detail in Section 3.2.
Based on these challenges,we identify three new features for LF.We observe the complementary nature of EFand LF, then propose a hybrid approach combin-ing both features.
Our new hybrid approach sig-nificantly improves the relation translation (0.16higher F1-score than EF), and in turn improves theentity translation (0.02 higher F1-score).2 Preliminary: Entity Translation bySelective PropagationSelective propagation, leveraging the statementsextracted from bilingual comparable corpora, canbe summarized by several steps.STEP 1 Initialize entity translation function T(0)N.STEP 2 Build relation translation function T(t)Rus-ing T(t)N.STEP 3 Update entity translation function to ac-quire T(t+1)Nusing T(t)R.STEP 4 Repeat STEP 2 and STEP 3.For STEP 1, an existing method for entity trans-lation is adopted.
In our experiments, we use anon-selective (hence not requiring relation trans-lations) propagation approach (You et al, 2012)with (Lam et al, 2007) for a base translation ma-trix.
The focus of this paper is STEP 2, building thetranslation score T(t)R(rE, rC) of English relationrEand Chinese relation rC: We will discuss thedetailed procedure of STEP 2 and propose how toimprove it in Section 3.
STEP 3 is the stage thatselective propagation takes place.STEP 2 and STEP 3 reinforce each other to im-prove the final entity translation function.
WhileSTEP 3 is well-defined in (Lee and Hwang, 2013),to propagate entity translation scores when the re-lation semantics of the edges are equivalent, STEP2 has been restricted to the explicit feature, i.e., co-occurring entities or shared context.
In clear con-trast, by discovering novel latent features based ontemporal properties, we can increase the accuracyof both entity and relation translations.
Note thatwe omit t for readability in the following sections.3 Relation TranslationIn this section, we present our approaches to ob-tain relations of equivalent semantics across lan-guages (e.g., visit???).
Formally, our goalis to build the relation translation score functionTR(rE, rC) for English relation rEand Chineserelation rC.3.1 Baseline: Explicit Feature Approach (EF)In this section, we briefly illustrate a baselinemethod EF (Lee and Hwang, 2013).
As wementioned in the introduction, traditional ap-proaches leverage common co-occurring entity-pairs.
This observation also holds in the bilin-gual environment by exploiting seed entity trans-lations.
For example, let us say that we havetwo extracted statements: (Bruce Willis, star in,The Sixth Sense) and (???????
(BruceWillis),??
(star in),???
(The Sixth Sense)).Knowing a few seed entity translations using TN,?Bruce Willis???????????
and ?The SixthSense??????
?, we can find star in and?
?are semantically similar.Specifically, we quantify this similarity basedon the number of such common entity pairs thatwe denote as |H(rE, rC)| for an English relationrEand a Chinese relation rC.
The existing ap-proaches are variations of using |H(rE, rC)|.
Ourbaseline implementation uses the one by (Lee andHwang, 2013), and we refer the reader to the pa-per for formal definitions and processing steps weomitted due to the page limit.Unfortunately, this approach suffers from spar-sity of the common entity pairs due to the incom-parability of the corpora and those entities thatcannot be translated by TN.
Therefore, we lever-age corpus latent features as an additional signalto overcome this problem.3.2 Latent Feature Approach (LF)Temporal Feature DiscoveryWe exploit the temporal distribution d[x](t) of tex-tual element x during t-th week in statements;we count the occurrences of the element x ona weekly basis, and normalize them to observe?td[x](t) = 1.
For example, Figure 2a shows therelation temporal distribution d[visit](t) againstweek t. Unlike entities, we can easily observethe dissimilarity of the temporal distributions ofsemantically equivalent relations.
We identify the84900.040.080 10 20 30 40 50Weekvisit??
(a) Atemporality of equivalent relations: d[visit] andd[??
].00.120.240 10 20 30 40 50Week(Bush, visit, *)(?
?, ?
?, *)(b) Temporality of equivalent entity-relation couplings:d[Bush, visit, *] and d[??,?
?, *].00.070.140 10 20 30 40 50Weekdeploy?...??
(c) Temporality of non-equivalent relations: d[deploy]and d[?...??
(deploy at)]Figure 2: Temporal distributions of a relation, anda coupling.three big challenges in exploiting the temporalityin relation translations.
[C1] Considering temporal distributions d[r] ofrelations alone is not sufficient.
For relations, suchas visit, that involves diverse entities, the temporaldistributions are highly noisy (Figure 2a).To address the first challenge, we use a finer-granularity unit for observing the temporality.More specifically, we exploit a coupling of a re-lation and an entity: d[e, r, ?]
where e is an en-tity, r a relation, and * is a placeholder indicatingthat any noun phrase is accepted for the second ar-gument of a statement.1As shown in Figure 2b,d[e, r, ?]
is more distinctive and hence a key clueto find semantically equivalent relations.
[C2] Considering entity-relation coupling dis-tribution d[e, r, ?]
alone is not sufficient due tothe domination of individual temporality.
For ex-ample, Figure 3 shows entity-dominating entity-relation temporality.
If an entity has a peak atsome period (Figure 3a), most relations that arecoupled with the entity would have a peak at thevery same period (Figure 3b).
This makes all re-lations that appear with this entity very similar to1We use both d[e, r, ?]
and d[?, r, e] to measure the rela-tion translation scores and leverage the average score.
But inthis section, we only use d[e, r, ?]
for readability.00.320.640 10 20 30 40 50Week(a) Temporal distribution ofan entity having a peak.00.320.640 10 20 30 40 50Week(b) Temporal distribution ofa coupling of a relation andthe entity.Figure 3: False positive peak of an entity-relationcoupling.each other regardlessly of semantics.
To addressthis challenge, we use features to measure whetherd[e, r, ?]
is too close to either of d[e] or d[r].
[C3] Lastly, we have to eliminate false positivesin relation temporality.
To illustrate, two relationsdeploy and ?...??
(deploy at) have similartemporal behaviors (Figure 2c).
However, the firstrelation takes [person], but the second relation [lo-cation] for the second argument.To address this, we check the common co-occurring entity pair of the relations.
For exam-ple, we can obtain ?Russia deployed an aircraftcarrier?, but not ?Russia deployed at (?...??
)an aircraft carrier?.
Thus, we cannot acquire anycommon entity pair like (Russia, aircraft carrier)for deploy and?...??
(deploy at).Relation Similarity ComputationWe compute the similarity of two relations rEinEnglish and rCin Chinese using the following 2-steps.?
Compute the similarity SCP(rE, rC, eE, eC) oftemporal distributions of entity-relation cou-plings for each bilingual entity pair (eE, eC).?
Compute the translation score TLFR(rE, rC) byaggregating the coupling similarities.Considering the three challenges, we producea list of features {fx(rE, rC, eE, eC)} to mea-sure the coupling similarity SCP(rE, rC, eE, eC)as follows.?
[Base feature] fET: TN(eE, eC).
The entitytranslation score obtained in the previous iter-ation or the seed entity translation score.?
[C1] fER: 1?JSD(d[eE, rE, ?
], d[eC, rC, ?
]).The temporal similarity of the couplings, whereJSD(P,Q) is the Jensen-Shannon divergenceof two distributions P and Q, defined asJSD(P,Q) =12D(P ||M) +12D(Q||M),850with M =12(P + Q) and D(P ||M) =?iP (i) logP (i)M(i).?
[C2] fD1,E, fD2,E, fD1,C, fD2,C:JSD(d[eE], d[eE, rE, ?
]), JSD(d[rE], d[eE, rE, ?
])JSD(d[eC], d[eC, rC, ?
]), JSD(d[rC], d[eC, rC, ?
])Entity to entity-relation distribution difference(D1) and relation to entity-relation distributiondifference (D2), for English and Chinese re-spectively.?
[C3] fEX: The existence of a common entitypair using the seed entity translations (boolean).That is, fEX= 1 if |H(rE, rC)| ?
1, andfEX= 0 otherwise.Additionally, we use the following features toconsider absolute frequencies freq(?)
of textualelements as well because 1) we are more confi-dent with more evidence and 2) in the comparablecorpora, the equivalent elements are likely to showsimilar frequencies.?
fFW,E, fFW,C: S(freq(eE, rE)) andS(freq(eC, rC)).
S(x) is a normalizationfunction, for which we use a sigmoid functionover a linear transformation of x.?
fFS1and fFS2:min(freq(eE, rE), freq(eC, rC))max(freq(eE, rE), freq(eC, rC)),min(freq(rE), freq(rC))max(freq(rE), freq(rC))With these features, we measure the similarityof a pair of couplings as follows.SCP(rE, rC, eE, eC) =?xfx(rE, rC, eE, eC)(1)By aggregating coupling similarities, we mea-sure the translation score of two relations:TLFR(rE, rC) =?
(eE,eC)?TSCP(rE, rC, eE, eC)(2)where T = {(eE, eC)|TN(eE, eC) ?
?}
with ?
=0.6, a set of translation pairs obtained in the seedsor previous iteration such as (Bush,??
).We normalize the obtained function values foreach English relations using the top-k Chinesetranslations.
That is, for (rE, rC), we redefine thescore as TLFR(rE, rC)/?i?
[1,k]TLFR(rE, rrankiC)where rrankiCis the i-th rank Chinese relation forrEby Equation 2.
We empirically set k = 4.English LF EFvisit ??
(visit) ??
(visit)support ?...??
(provide to ...) -ratify ??
(discuss)2 ??
(ratify)Table 1: Examples of relation translations.Person OrganizationMethod P. R. F1 P. R. F1LF+EF 0.84 0.80 0.82 0.60 0.52 0.56EF 0.81 0.79 0.80 0.56 0.52 0.54Seed 0.80 0.77 0.78 0.49 0.44 0.46PH+SM 0.59 0.59 0.59 0.29 0.29 0.29Table 2: Entity translation comparison.3.3 Hybrid Approach LF+EFWe find that LF and EF are complementary.
Ta-ble 1 shows the examples of relations and theirtranslations.
In general, LF can translate more re-lations (e.g., support and capture).
However,in some cases like ratify, highly related relationsmay induce noise.
That is, we always??
(dis-cuss) before we ??
(ratify) something andhence the temporal behavior of ??
(discuss)is also very similar to that of ratify.
On the otherhand, it can be correctly translated using EF.Thus, we produce the hybrid relation transla-tion, and we empirically set ?
= 0.4:TLF+EFR(rE, rC)=?TLFR(rE, rC)+(1 ?
?
)TEFR(rE, rC)(3)4 EvaluationIn this section, we evaluate the proposed approachon the entity translation task and the relation trans-lation task.
We extract English and Chinese state-ments from news articles in 2008 by Xinhua newswho publishes news in both English and Chinese,which were also used by Lee and Hwang (2013).The number of English articles is 100,746, andthat of Chinese articles is 88,031.
As we can seefrom the difference in the numbers of the docu-ments, the news corpora are not direct translations,but they have asymmetry of entities and relations.4.1 Entity TranslationIn this section, we present experimental settingsand results on translating entities using our pro-posed approaches.
To measure the effectiveness,2The correct translation??
(ratify) is ranked second.851Methods Precision Recall F1LF+EF 0.37 0.44 0.40LF 0.26 0.25 0.26EF 0.41 0.17 0.24Table 3: Relation translation comparison.we use a set of gold standard entity translationpairs which consist of 221 person entities and 52organization entities.
We measure precision, re-call, and F1-score based on the returned trans-lation pairs for each English entity as it is donein (Lee and Hwang, 2013).We compare our hybrid approach, which is de-noted by LF+EF with EF (Lee and Hwang, 2013),a combined approach PH+SM of phonetic similar-ity and letter-wise semantic translation for betteraccuracy for organizations (Lam et al, 2007), andthe seed translations Seed that we adopt (You etal., 2012) with PH+SM as a base translation ma-trix.3We process one iteration of the entire frame-work (STEP 1-3) for both LF+EF and EF.Table 2 shows the comparison of the methods.Our proposed approach LF+EF shows higher F1-score than the baselines.
In particular, our ap-proach outperforms EF.
For example, ?MatthewEmmons?
is a lesser known entity, and we haveonly few statements mentioning him in the cor-pora.
The corpus explicit feature EF alone cannottranslate the relation win and, in turn, ?MatthewEmmons?.
However, LF+EF translates him cor-rectly into??????
through the relation win.4.2 Relation TranslationThis section considers the relation translation task.Each relation translation method translates an En-glish relation rEinto a list of Chinese relations,and we check whether a Chinese relation rCwiththe highest translation score is the correct transla-tion.
We consider the relation translation is cor-rect when the semantics are equivalent.
For ex-ample, ?
(leave for/go to) is a correct trans-lation of leave for, but ??
(leave) is not.
To-tal 3342 English-Chinese relation translation pairsreturned by our method and the baselines are ran-domly shown and labeled.
Out of 3342 pairs, 399are labeled as correct.3Our results leveraging relational temporality outper-forms the reported results using entity temporality on thesame data set.
The two approaches using temporality are or-thogonal and can be aggregated, which we leave as our futuredirections.Eng.
Rel.
C1 C1+C2 C1+C2+C3 EFvisit 15 4 1 1drop 21 14 1 -capture 6 4 1 -Table 4: Rank of correct relation translation.
Thesymbol ?-?
indicates no correct translation.Table 3 shows the comparisons of LF, EFand their hybrid LF+EF.
We can clearly see thatLF shows higher recall than EF while EF showshigher precision.
As we emphasized in Sec-tion 3.3, we can see their complementary property.Their hybrid LF+EF has both high precision andrecall, thus has the highest F1-score.Note that the absolute numbers (due to the harshevaluation criteria) may look low.
But the toptranslations are still relevant (e.g., fight is trans-lated to ?
(deploy troops)).
In addition, thelower ranked but correct relation translations alsoaffect entity translation.
Therefore, even lower-performing EF boosted the entity translations, andin effect, our approach could achieve higher F1-score in the entity translation task.To illustrate the detailed effects of the corpuslatent features, Table 4 shows the ranks of correctChinese translations for English relations by meth-ods using selected features for the challenges.
Forcomparison, the ranks of the correct translationswhen using EF are shown.
Our approach usingthe entity-relation coupling similarity feature for[C1] alone often cannot find the correct transla-tions.
But using all features removes such noise.5 ConclusionThis paper studied temporality features for re-lation equivalence.
With the proposed features,we devised a hybrid approach combining corpuslatent and explicit features with complementarystrength.
We empirically showed the effectivenessof our hybrid approach on relation translation, andit, in turn, improved entity translation.AcknowledgmentsThis research was supported by the MSIP (TheMinistry of Science, ICT and Future Planning),Korea and Microsoft Research, under IT/SWCreative research program supervised by theNIPA(National IT Industry Promotion Agency).
(NIPA-2013-H0503-13-1009).852ReferencesJinhan Kim, Long Jiang, Seung-won Hwang, Young-InSong, and Ming Zhou.
2011.
Mining entity trans-lations from comparable corpora: a holistic graphmapping approach.
In Proc.
20thACM InternationalConference on Information and Knowledge Man-agement (CIKM 2011), pages 1295?1304.
ACM.Jinhan Kim, Seung-won Hwang, Long Jiang, Young-In Song, and Ming Zhou.
2012.
Entity translationmining from comparable corpora: Combining graphmapping with corpus latent features.
In IEEE Trans-actions on Knowledge and Data Engineering, pages1787?1800.Alexandre Klementiev and Dan Roth.
2006.
Namedentity transliteration and discovery from multilin-gual comparable corpora.
In Proc.
8thAnnual Con-ference of the North American Chapter of the Asso-ciation for Computational Linguistics (HLT-NAACL2006), pages 82?88.
Association for ComputationalLinguistics.Kevin Knight and Jonathan Graehl.
1998.
Ma-chine transliteration.
Computational Linguistics,24(4):599?612, December.Wai Lam, Shing-Kit Chan, and Ruizhang Huang.2007.
Named entity translation matching and learn-ing: With application for mining unseen transla-tions.
ACM Transactions on Information Systems,25(1), February.Taesung Lee and Seung-won Hwang.
2013.
Bootstrap-ping entity translation on weakly comparable cor-pora.
In Proc.
51stAnnual Meeting on Associationfor Computational Linguistics (ACL 2013).
Associ-ation for Computational Linguistics.Thahir Mohamed, Estevam Hruschka, and TomMitchell.
2011.
Discovering relations betweennoun categories.
In Proc.
2011 Conference on Em-pirical Methods in Natural Language Processing(EMNLP 2011), pages 1447?1455.
Association forComputational Linguistics.Ndapandula Nakashole, Gerhard Weikum, andFabian M. Suchanek.
2012.
PATTY: A Taxonomyof Relational Patterns with Semantic Types.
InProc.
2012 Joint Conference on Empirical Methodsin Natural Language Processing and Computa-tional Natural Language Learning (EMNLP-CoNLL2012).
Association for Computational Linguistics.Stephen Wan and Cornelia Maria Verspoor.
1998.Automatic English-Chinese name transliteration fordevelopment of multilingual resources.
In Proc.36thAnnual Meeting on Association for Computa-tional Linguistics (ACL 1998) and 17thInternationalConference on Computational Linguistics (COLING1998), pages 1352?1356.
Association for Computa-tional Linguistics.Gae-won You, Seung-won Hwang, Young-In Song,Long Jiang, and Zaiqing Nie.
2012.
Efficient en-tity translation mining: A parallelized graph align-ment approach.
ACM Transactions on InformationSystems, 30(4):25:1?25:23, November.Gae-won You, Young-rok Cha, Jinhan Kim, andSeung-won Hwang.
2013.
Enriching entity transla-tion discovery using selective temporality.
In Proc.51stAnnual Meeting on Association for Computa-tional Linguistics (ACL 2013), pages 201?205.
As-sociation for Computational Linguistics.853
