Proceedings of 52nd Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics: System Demonstrations, pages 97?102,Baltimore, Maryland USA, June 23-24, 2014. c?2014 Association for Computational LinguisticsWeb Information Mining and Decision Support Platform for theModern Service IndustryBinyang Li1,2, Lanjun Zhou2,3, Zhongyu Wei2,3, Kam-fai Wong2,3,4,Ruifeng Xu5, Yunqing Xia61 Dept.
of Information Science & Technology, University of International Relations, China2Dept.
of Systems Engineering & Engineering Management, The Chinese University of HongKong, Shatin, N.T., Hong Kong3MoE Key Laboratory of High Confidence Software Technologies, China4 Shenzhen Research Institute, The Chinese University of Hong Kong5Harbin Institute of Technology Shenzhen Graduate School, Shenzhen, China6Department of Computer Science & Technology, TNList, Tsinghua University, China{byli,ljzhou,zywei,kfwong}@se.cuhk.edu.hkAbstractThis demonstration presents an intelligent infor-mation platform MODEST.
MODEST will pro-vide enterprises with the services of retrievingnews from websites, extracting commercial in-formation, exploring customers?
opinions, andanalyzing collaborative/competitive social net-works.
In this way, enterprises can improve thecompetitive abilities and facilitate potential col-laboration activities.
At the meanwhile, MOD-EST can also help governments to acquire in-formation about one single company or the entireboard timely, and make prompt strategies forbetter support.
Currently, MODEST is applied tothe pillar industries of Hong Kong, includinginnovative finance, modem logistics, informationtechnology, etc.1 IntroductionWith the rapid development of Web 2.0, theamount of information is exploding.
There aremillions of events towards companies and bil-lions of opinions on products generated everyday (Liu, 2012).
Such enormous informationcannot only facilitate companies to improve theircompetitive abilities, but also help government tomake prompt decisions for better support ortimely monitor, e.g.
effective risk management.For this reason, there is a growing demand ofWeb information mining and intelligent decisionsupport services for the industries.
Such servicesare collectively referred as modern service,which includes the following requirements:(1) To efficiently retrieve relevant informationfrom the websites;(2) To accurately determine the latest businessnews and trends of the company;(3) To identify and analyze customers?
opinionstowards the company;(4) To explore the collaborative and competitiverelationship with other companies;(5) To leverage the knowledge mined from thebusiness news and company social networkfor decision support.In this demonstration, we will present a Webinformation mining and decision support plat-form, MODEST1.
The objective of MODEST isto provide modern services for both enterprisesand government, including collecting Web in-formation, making deep analysis, and providingsupporting decision.
The innovation of MOD-EST is focusing on deep analysis which incor-porates the following functions:?
Topic detection and tracking function is tocluster the hot events and capture the rela-tionship between the relevant events based onthe collected data from websites (event alsoreferred as topic in this paper).
In order to re-alize this function, Web mining techniquesare adopted, e.g.
topic clustering, heuristicsalgorithms, etc.?
The second function is to identify and analyzecustomers?
opinions about the company.Opinion mining technology (Zhou et al., 2010)is adopted to determine the polarity of thosenews, which can help the company timely andappropriately adjust the policy to strengthenthe dominant position or avoid risks.1 This work is supported by the Innovation and TechnologyFund of Hong Kong SAR.97?
The third function is to explore and analyzesocial network based on the company centric.We utilize social network analysis (SNA)technology (Xia et al., 2010) to discover therelationships, and we further analyze the con-tent in fine-grained granularity to identify itspotential partners or competitors.With the help of MODEST, the companies canacquire modern service-related information, andtimely adjust corporate policies and marketingplan ahead.
Hence, the ability of information ac-quisition and the competitiveness of the enter-prises can be improved accordingly.In this paper, we will use a practical exampleto illustrate our platform and evaluate the per-formance of main functions.The rest of this paper is organized as follows.Section 2 will introduce the system descriptionas well as the main functions implementation.The practical case study will be illustrated inSection 3.
The performance of MODEST will beevaluated in Section 4.Finally, this paper will beconcluded in Section 5.2 System DescriptionIn this section, we first outline the system archi-tecture of MODEST, and then describe the im-plementation of the main functionality in detail.2.1 Architecture and WorkflowThe MODEST system consists of three modules:data acquisition, data analysis, and result display.The system architecture is shown in Figure 1.Figure 1: System architecture.
(The module inblue is data acquisition, the module in orange isdata analysis, and the module in light green isresult display)(1) The core technique in the data acquisitionmodule is the crawler, which is developed tocollect raw data from websites, e.g.
news portals,blogosphere.
Then the system parse the raw webpages and extract information to store in the localdatabase for further processing.
(2) The data analysis module can be divided intotwo parts:?
NLP pre-processor: utilizes NLP (naturallanguage processing) techniques and sometoolkits to perform the pre-processing on theraw data in (1), including word segmenta-tion, part-of-speech (POS) tagging1, stop-word removal, and named entity recognition(NER)2.
We then create knowledgebase forindividual industry, such as domain-specificsentiment word lexicon, name entity collec-tion, and so on.?
Miner?makes use of data mining techniquesto realize four functions, topic detection andtracking (TDT), multi-document summari-zation 3  (MDS), social network analysis(SNA), and opinion mining (OM).
The re-sults of data analysis are also stored in thedatabase.
(3) The result display module read out the analy-sis results from the database and display them tousers in the form of plain text, charts, figures, aswell as video.2.2 Function ImplementationSince the innovation of MODEST is focusing onthe module of data analysis, we will describe itsmain functions in detail, including topic detec-tion and tracking, opinion mining, and socialnetworks analysis.2.2.1 Topic Detection and TrackingThe TDT function targets on detecting andtracking the hot topics for each individual com-pany.
Given a period of data collected from web-sites, there are various discussions about thecompany.
In order to extract these topics, clus-tering methods (Viermetz et al., 2007 and Yoonet al., 2009) are implemented to explore the top-ics.
Note that during the period of data collection,different topics with respect to the same compa-ny may have relations.
We, therefore, utilize hi-erarchical clustering methods4to capture the po-tential relations.Due to the large amount of data, it is impossi-ble to view all the topics at a snapshot.
MODESTutilizes topic tracking technique (Wang et al.,2008) to identify related stories with a stream of1 www.ictclas.org2http://ir.hit.edu.cn/demo/ltp3http://libots.sourceforge.net/4http://dragon.ischool.drexel.edu/RawfilesPre-processedfilesDatabaseCrawler UIWordsegmentationWebNERStopwordremovalPOStaggingNLP pre-p ocessorTDT OMMDS SNSMinerData Layer98media.
It is convenient for the users to see thelatest information about the company.In summary, TDT function provides the ser-vices of detecting and tracking the latest andemergent topics, analyzing the relationships oftopics on the dynamics of the company.
It meetsthe aforementioned demand, ?to accurately graspthe latest business news and trends of the com-pany?.2.2.2 Opinion MiningThe objective of OM function is to discoveropinions towards a company and classify theopinions into positive, negative, or neutral.The opinion mining function is redesignedbased on our own opinion mining engine (Zhouet al., 2010).
It separates opinion identificationand polarity classification into two stages.Given a set of documents that are relevant tothe company, we first split the documents intosentences, and then identify whether the sentenceis opinionated or not.
We extract the featuresshown in Table 1 for opinion identification.
(Zhou et al., 2010)Table 1: Features adopted in the opinionatedsentence classifierPunctuation level featuresThe presence of direct quote punctuation "?"
and "?
"The presence of other punctuations: "?"
and "!
"Word-Level and entity-level featuresThe presence of known opinion operatorsThe percentage of known opinion word in sentencePresence of a named entityPresence of pronounPresence of known opinion indicatorsPresence of known degree adverbsPresence of known conjunctionsBi-gram featuresNamed entities + opinion operatorsPronouns + opinion operatorsNouns or named entities + opinion wordsPronouns + opinion wordsOpinion words (adjective) + opinion words(noun)Degree adverbs + opinion wordsDegree adverbs + opinion operatorsThese features are then combined using a ra-dial basis function (RBF) kernel and a supportvector machine (SVM) classifier (Drucker et al.,1997) is trained based on the NTCIR 8trainingdata for opinion identification (Kando, 2010).For those opinionated sentences, we then clas-sify them into positive, negative, or neutral.
Inaddition to the features shown in Table 1, weincorporate features of s-VSM (Sentiment VectorSpace Model) (Xia et al., 2008) to enhance theperformance.
The principles of the s-VSM arelisted as follows: (1) Only sentiment-relatedwords are used to produce sentiment features forthe s-VSM.
(2) The sentiment words are appro-priately disambiguated with the neighboring ne-gations and modifiers.
(3) Negations and modifi-ers are included in the s-VSM to reflect the func-tions of inversing, strengthening and weakening.Sentiment unit is the appropriate element com-plying with the above principles.
(Zhou et al.,2010)In addition to polarity classification, opinionholder and target are also recognized in OMfunction for further identifying the relationshipthat two companies have, e.g.
collaborative orcompetitive.
Both of the dependency parser andthe semantic role labeling1 (SRL) tool are in-corporated to identify the semantic roles of eachchunk based on verbs in the sentence.The OM function provides the company withservices of analyzing the social sentimentalfeedback on the dynamics of the company.
Itmeets the aforementioned demand, ?to identifyand analyze customers?
opinions towards thecompany?.2.2.3 Social Network AnalysisSNA function aims at producing the commercialnetwork of companies that are hidden within thearticles.To achieve this goal, we maintain two lexicons,the commercial named entity lexicon and com-mercial relation lexicon.
Commercial named en-tity are firstly located within the text and thenrecorded in the commercial entity lexicon in thepre-processor NER.
Commercial relation lexiconrecord the articles/documents that involve thecommercial relations.
Note that the commercialrelation lexicon (Table 2) is manually compiled.In this work, we consider only two generalcommercial relations, namely cooperation andcompetition.Table 2: Statistics on relation lexicon.Type Amount ExamplesCompetition 20 ??
(challenge), ??
(compete), ?
?
(opponent)Collaboration 18 ??(collaborate),??
(coordinate), ?
?
(cooperate)SNA function produces the social network of acentric company, which can provide the compa-1http://ir.hit.edu.cn/demo/ltp99ny with the impact analysis and decision-makingchain tracking.
It meets the aforementioned de-mand, ?to explore the collaborative and competi-tive relationship between companies?.3 Practical ExampleIn this section, we use a case study to illustrateour system and further evaluate the performanceof the main functions with respect to those com-panies.
Due to the limited space, we just illus-trate the main functions of topic detection, opin-ion mining and social network analysis.3.1 Topic Detection and Opinion MiningFigure 2(a) showed the results of topic detectionand opinion mining functions for a Hong Konglocal financial company Sun Hung Kai Proper-ties (?????).
On top of the figure are theresults of topic detection and tracking function.Multi-document summary of the latest news isprovided for the company and more news withthe similar topics can be found by pressing thebutton ????
(more).
Since there are a lot ofduplicates of a piece of news on the websites, thesummary is a direct way to acquire the recentnews, which can improve the effectiveness of thecompany.The results of opinion mining function areshown at the bottom of Figure 2(a), where thegreen line indicates negative while the red lineindicates positive.
In order to give a dynamicinsight of public opinions, we provide theamount changes of positive and negative articleswith time variant.
This is very helpful for thecompany to capture the feedback of their mar-keting policies.
As shown in Figure 2(a), therewere 14 negative articles (????)
on Oct. 29,2012, which achieved negative peak within the 6months.
The users would probably read those 14articles and adjust the company strategy accord-ingly.3.2 Social Network AnalysisFigure 2(b) shows the social network based onthe centric company in yellow, Sun Hung KaiProperties (?????).
We only list the halfof the connected companies with collaborativerelationship from Sun Hung Kai Properties, andremove the competitive ones due to limited space.The thickness of the line indicates the strength ofthe collaboration between the two companies.The social network can explore the potentialpartners/competitors of a company.
Furthermore,users are allowed to adjust the depth and set thenodes count of the network.
The above analysiscan provide a richer insight in to a company.In the following section, we will make exper-iments to investigate the performance of theabove functions.
(a) Topic detection and opinion mining of Sun Hung Kai Properties (?????).
(For convenience,we translate the texts on the button in English)Opinion MiningTopic Detection100(b)Social network of Sun Hung Kai Properties (?????).
(The rectangle in yellow is the centric)Figure 2: Screenshot of the MODEST system.4 Experiment and ResultIn our evaluation, the experiments were madebased on 17692 articles collected from 52 HongKong websites during 6 months (1/7/2012~31/12/2012).
We investigate the performance ofMODEST based on the standard metrics pro-posed by NIST1, including precision, recall, andF-score.Precision (P) is the fraction of detected articles(U) that are relevantto the topic (N).Recall (R) is the fraction of the articles (T) thatare relevant to the topic that are successfully de-tected (N).Usually, there is an inverse relationship be-tween precision and recall, where it is possible toincrease one at the cost of reducing the other.Therefore, precision and recall scores are notdiscussed in isolation.
Instead, F-Score (F) isproposed to combine precision and recall, whichis the harmonic meanof precision and recall.4.1 Topic Detection and TrackingWe first assess the performance of the topic de-tection function.
The data is divided into 6 parts1http://trec.nist.gov/according to the time.
For different companies,the amount of articles vary a lot.
Therefore, wecalculate the metrics for each individual dataset,and then compute the weighted mean value.
Theexperimental results are shown in Table 3.Table 3: Experimental results on topic detection.Dataset Recall Precision F-Score1/7/12-31/7/12 85.71% 89.52% 85.38%1/8/12-31/8/12 93.10% 93.68% 92.49%1/9/12-30/9/12 76.50% 83.13% 76.56%1/10/12-31/10/12 83.32% 88.53% 85.84%1/11/12-30/11/12 86.11% 89.94% 87.98%1/12/12-31/12/12 84.26% 87.65% 85.92%Average 85.13% 88.78% 85.69%From the experimental results, we can findthat the average F-Score is about 85.69%.Thedataset in the second row achieves the best per-formance while the dataset in the third only get76.56% in F-Score.
It is because that the amountof articles is smaller than the others and the re-call value is very low.
As far as we know, thebest run of topic detection in (Allan et al., 2007)achieved 84%.
The performance of topic detec-tion in MODEST is comparable.4.2 Opinion MiningWe then evaluate the performance of opinionmining function.
We manually annotated 1568articles, which is further divided into 8 datasetsrandomly.
Precision, recall, and F-score are alsoused as the metrics for the evaluation.
The ex-perimental results are shown in Table 4.101From Table 4, we can find that the averageF-Score can reach 74.09%.
Note that the opinionmining engine of MODEST is the implementa-tion of (Zhou et al., 2010), which achieved thebest run in NTCIR.
However, the engine istrained on NTCIR corpus, which consists of arti-cles of general domain, while the test set focuseson the financial domain.
We further train ourengine on the data from the financial domain andthe average F-Score improves to over 80%.5 ConclusionsThis demonstration presents an intelligent infor-mation platform designed to mine Web infor-mation and provide decisions for modern service,MODEST.
MODEST can provide the services ofretrieving news from websites, extracting com-mercial information, exploring customers?
opin-ions about a given company, and analyzing itscollaborative/competitive social networks.
Bothenterprises and government are the target cus-tomers.
For enterprise, MODEST can improvethe competitive abilities and facilitate potentialcollaboration.
For government, MODEST cancollect information about the entire industry, andmake prompt strategies for better support.In this paper, we first introduce the system ar-chitecture design and the main functions imple-mentation, including topic detection and tracking,opinion mining, and social network analysis.Then a case study is given to illustrate the func-tions of MODEST.
In order to evaluate the per-formance of MODEST, we also conduct the ex-periments based on the data from 52 Hong Kongwebsites, and the results show the effectivenessof the above functions.In the future, MODEST will be improved intwo directions:?
Extend to other languages, e.g.
English,Simplified Chinese, etc.?
Enhance the compatibility to implementon mobile device.The demo of MODEST and the relatedtoolkits can be found on the homepage:http://sepc111.se.cuhk.edu.hk:8080/adcom_hk/AcknowledgementsThis research is partially supported by General Re-search Fund of Hong Kong (417112), Shenzhen Fun-damental Research Program (JCYJ20130401172046450, JCYJ20120613152557576), KTO(TBF1ENG007),National Natural Science Foundation of China(61203378, 61370165), and Shenzhen InternationalCooperation Funding (GJHZ20120613110641217).References:James Allan, Jaime Carbonell, George Doddington,Jonathan Yamron, and Yiming Yang.
1998.
TopicDetection and Tracking Pilot Study: Final Report.Proceedings of the DARPA Broadcast News Tran-scription and Understanding Workshop.Harris Drucker, Chris J.C. Burges, Linda Kaufman,Alex Smola, and Vladimir Vpnik.
1997.
SupportVector Regression Machines.
Proceedings of Ad-vances in Neural Information Processing Systems,pp.
155-161.Noriko Kando.2010.
Overview of the Eighth NTCIRWorkshop.
Proceedings of NTCIR-8 Workshop.Bing Liu.
2012.
Sentiment Analysis and OpinionMining.
Proceedings of Synthesis Lectures on Hu-man Language Technologies, pp.
1-167.Maximilian Viermetz, and Michal Skubacz.
2007.Using Topic Discovery to Segment Large Commu-nication Graphs for Social Network Analysis.
Pro-ceedings of the IEEE/WIC/ACM InternationalConference on Web Intelligence, pp.
95-99.Canhui Wang, Min Zhang, Liyun Ru, and ShaopingMa.
2008.
Automatic Online News Topic RankingUsing Media Focus and User Attention based onAging Theory.
Proceedings of the Conference onInformation and Knowledge Management.Yunqing Xia, Nianxing Ji, Weifeng Su, and Yi Liu.2010.
Mining Commercial Networks from OnlineFinancial News.
Proceedings of the IEEE Interna-tional Conference on E-Business Engineering, pp.17-23.Ruifeng Xu, Kam-fai Wong, and Yunqing Xia.
2008.Coarse-Fine Opinion Mining-WIA in NTCIR-7MOAT Task.
In NTCIR-7 Workshop, pp.
307-313.Seok-Ho Yoon, Jung-Hwan Shin, Sang-Wook Kim,and Sunju Park.
2009.
Extraction of a Latent BlogCommunity based on Subject.
Proceeding of the 18thACM Conference on Information and KnowledgeManagement, pp.
1529-1532.Lanjun Zhou, Yunqing Xia, Binyang Li, and Kam-faiWong.
2010.
WIA-Opinmine System in NTCIR-8MOAT Evaluation.
Proceedings of NTCIR-8Workshop Meeting, pp.
286-292.Table 4: Experimental results on opinion mining.Dataset Size Precision Recall F-Scoredataset-1 200 76.57% 78.26% 76.57%dataset-2 200 83.55% 89.64% 86.07%dataset-3 200 69.12% 69.80% 69.44%dataset-4 200 77.13% 75.40% 75.67%dataset-5 200 76.21% 77.65% 76.74%dataset-6 200 63.76% 66.22% 64.49%dataset-7 200 78.56% 78.41% 78.43%dataset-8 168 65.72% 65.15% 65.32%Average 196 73.83% 75.07% 74.09%102
