Proceedings of the 53rd Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguisticsand the 7th International Joint Conference on Natural Language Processing (Short Papers), pages 76?82,Beijing, China, July 26-31, 2015.c?2015 Association for Computational LinguisticsGenerating overspecified referring expressions: the role of discriminationIvandr?e Paraboni, Michelle Reis Galindo, Douglas IacovelliSchool of Arts, Sciences and Humanities (EACH)University of S?ao Paulo (USP)Av.
Arlindo Bettio, 1000 - S?ao Paulo, Brazil{ivandre,michelle.galindo,douglas.iacovelli}@usp.brAbstractWe present an experiment to compare astandard, minimally distinguishing algo-rithm for the generation of relational refer-ring expressions with two alternatives thatproduce overspecified descriptions.
Theexperiment shows that discrimination -which normally plays a major role in thedisambiguation task - is also a major influ-ence in referential overspecification, eventhough disambiguation is in principle notrelevant.1 IntroductionIn Natural Language Generation (NLG) systems,Referring Expression Generation (REG) is thecomputational task of providing natural languagedescriptions of domain entities (Levelt, 1989; Daleand Reiter, 1995), as in ?the second street on theleft?, ?the money that I found in the kitchen?
etc.In this paper we will focus on the issue of contentselection of relational descriptions, that is, thosein which the intended target is described via an-other object, hereby called a landmark.
Considerthe example of context in Fig.
1.Figure 1: A simple visual context.
All objects aregrey except for obj5, which is red.Let us consider the goal of uniquely identify-ing the target obj1 in the context in Fig.1.
Sincethe target shares most atomic properties (e.g., type,colour and size) with other distractor objects in thecontext (and particularly so with respect to obj4),using a relational property (near-obj2) may helpprevent ambiguity.
The following (a)-(c) are ex-amples of descriptions of this kind produced fromthe above context.
(a)The cone near the box(b)The cone near the grey box(c)The cone near the small boxAs in example (a), existing REG algorithms willusually pay regard to the Gricean maxim of quan-tity (Grice, 1975), and avoid the inclusion of prop-erties that are not strictly required for disambigua-tion.
In the case of relational reference, this meansthat both target and landmark portions of the de-scription may be left underspecified, and unique-ness will follow from the fact that they mutuallydisambiguate each other (Teixeira et al, 2014).
Inother words, example (a) may be considered felic-itous even though both ?cone?
and ?box?
are am-biguous if interpreted independently.Minimally distinguishing descriptions as in (a)are the standard output of many REG algorithmsthat handle relational descriptions as in (Daleand Haddock, 1991; Krahmer and Theune, 2002;Krahmer et al, 2003).
Human speakers, on theother hand, are largely redundant (Engelhardt etal., 2006; Arts et al, 2011; Koolen et al, 2011;Engelhardt et al, 2011), and will often produce so-called overspecified descriptions as in (b-c) above.In this paper we will focus on the issue of gener-ating overspecified relational descriptions as in ex-amples (b-c), discussing which properties shouldbe selected by a REG algorithm assuming that thedecision to overspecify has already been made.More specifically, we will discuss whether the al-gorithm should include colour as in (b), size as in(c), or other alternatives, and we will assess theimpact of a referential overspecification strategythat favours highly discriminatory properties overpreferences that are well-established in the liter-ature.
Although this may in principle seem as anarrow research topic, the generation of relationaldescriptions is still subject of considerable debatein the field (e.g., (Viethen and Dale, 2011) and76the issue of landmark under/full-specification hasa number of known consequences for referentialidentification (e.g., (Paraboni and van Deemter,2014)).2 Related work2.1 Relational REGOne of the first REG algorithms to take relationsinto account is the work in (Dale and Haddock,1991), which generates descriptions that may in-clude relational properties only as a last resort, thatis, only when it is not possible to obtain a uniquelyidentifying descriptions by making use of a set ofatomic properties.
The algorithm prevents circu-larity (e.g., ?the cup on the table that supports acup that...?)
and avoids the inclusion of redundantproperties with the aid of consistency networks.As a result, the algorithm favours the generationof minimally distinguishing relational descriptionsas example (a) in the previous section.In the Graph algorithm described in (Krahmer etal., 2003), the referential context is modelled as alabelled directed graph with vertices representingdomain entities and edges representing propertiesthat can be either relational (when connecting twoentities) or atomic (when forming self-loops).
Thetask of obtaining a uniquely identifying descrip-tion is implemented as a subgraph constructionproblem driven by domain-dependent cost func-tions associated with the decisions made by the al-gorithm.
The work in (Krahmer et al, 2003) doesnot make specific assumptions about the actual at-tribute selection policy, and by varying the costfunctions it is possible to implement a wide rangeof referential strategies.
The use of the algorithmfor the generation of relational descriptions is dis-cussed in (Viethen et al, 2013).The work in (Paraboni et al, 2006) discusses theissue of ease of search by focussing on the particu-lar case of relational description in hierarchically-ordered domains (e.g., books divided into sectionsand subsections etc.)
Descriptions that may ar-guably make search difficult, as in ?the sectionthat contains a picture?
are prevented by produc-ing fully-specified descriptions of each individualobject (i.e., picture, section etc.).
As in (Dale andHaddock, 1991), atomic properties are always at-tempted first, and each target (e.g., a subsection)holds only one relation (e.g., to its parent section).Descriptions of this kind are similar to the exam-ples (b-c) in the previous section.
However, hier-archical structures are highly specialised domains,and it is less clear to which extent these findingsare applicable to more general situations of ref-erence as in, e.g., spatial domains (Byron et al,2007; dos Santos Silva and Paraboni, 2015).2.2 Referential overspecificationAssuming that we would like to add a redun-dant property to overspecify a certain description,which property should be selected?
Research onREG, cognitive sciences and related fields has in-vestigated a number of factors that may play arole in referential overspecification.
First of all,it has been widely observed that some propertiesare simply preferred to others.
This seems tobe the case, for instance, of the colour attribute.Colour is ubiquitously found in both redundantand non-redundant use (Pechmann, 1989), andempirical evidence suggests that colour is over-specified more frequently than size (Belke andMeyer, 2002).The inherent preference for colour has how-ever been recently challenged.
The work in (vanGompel et al, 2014), for instance, points out thatwhen perceptual salience is manipulated so thata high contrast between target and distractors isobserved, the size attribute may be preferred tocolour.
In other words, a highly preferred prop-erty may not necessarily match the choices madeby human speakers when producing overspecifieddescriptions.
Results along these lines are also re-ported in (Tarenskeen et al, 2014).Redundant and non-redundant uses of colour(and possibly other preferred properties) may alsobe influenced by the difficulty in encoding visualproperties.
In (Viethen et al, 2012), for instance,it is argued that the colour property is more likelyto be selected when it is maximally different fromthe other colours in the context.
For instance, a redobject is more likely to be described as ?red?
whennone of the distractors is red, and less so when amodifier (e.g., ?light red?)
would be required fordisambiguation.Closer to our present discussion, we notice thatthe issue of discrimination as proposed in (Olson,1970) has been considered by most REG algo-rithms to date (e.g., (Dale and Reiter, 1995; Krah-mer and van Deemter, 2012)), and it has evenmotivated a number of greedy or minimally dis-tinguishing REG strategies (Gardent, 2002; Dale,2002; Areces et al, 2011).
Interestingly, the work77in (Gatt et al, 2013) has suggested that small dif-ferences in discriminatory power do not seem toinfluence content selection, but large differencesdo, a notion that has been applied to the designof REG algorithms on at least two occasions: in(de Lucena et al, 2010) properties are selected inorder of preference regardless of their discrimina-tory power and, if necessary, an additional, highlydiscriminatory property is included; in (van Gom-pel et al, 2012), a fully distinguishing property isattempted first and, if necessary for disambigua-tion, further properties are considered based onboth preference and discrimination.Discrimination clearly plays a major role in thedisambiguation task, but it less clear whether it isstill relevant when disambiguation is not an issue,that is, in the case of referential overspecification.The present work is an attempt to shed light on thisparticular issue.3 Current workFollowing (Pechmann, 1989) and others, we mayassume that colour should be generally (or perhapsalways) preferred to size.
Moreover, as in (Kelle-her and Kruijff, 2006), we may follow the prin-ciple of minimal effort (Clark and Wilkes-Gibbs,1986) and assume that atomic properties such ascolour or size should be preferred to relations thatlead to more complex descriptions.
In our currentwork, however, we will argue that neither needsto be the case: under the right circumstances, awide range of properties - colour, size and evenspatial relations - may be overspecified depend-ing on their discriminatory power alone.
Thus, itmay be the case that size is preferred to colour (un-like, e.g., (Pechmann, 1989)), and that longer, re-lational descriptions are preferred to shorter ones(unlike, e.g., (Kelleher and Kruijff, 2006)).The possible preference for highly discrimina-tory properties in referential overspecification iseasily illustrated by the examples in the introduc-tion section.
Following (Pechmann, 1989), onemight assume that, if a speaker decides to over-specify the landmark portion of description (a),she may add the colour attribute, as in (b).
Thisstrategy, however, turns out to be far less commonin language use if a more discriminatory propertyis available, as in the example.
More specifically,the availability of a highly discriminatory land-mark property (size-small) makes (c) much morelikely than (b).
This observation gives rise to thefollowing research hypothesis:h1: Given the goal of overspecifying arelational description by using an ad-ditional landmark property p, p shouldcorrespond to the most discriminatoryproperty available in the context.The idea that speakers may take discriminatorypower into account when referring is of course notnovel.
What is less obvious, however, is that dis-crimination may also play a significant role in sit-uations that do not involve ambiguity, as in theabove examples.
To illustrate this, let us considera basic REG algorithm - hereby called Baseline- consisting of a relational implementation of anIncremental-like algorithm as proposed in (Daleand Reiter, 1995).Given the goal of producing a uniquely identify-ing description L of a target object r, the Baselinealgorithm works as follows: first, an atomic de-scription is attempted by examining a list of pre-ferred attributes P and by selecting those that helpdisambiguate the reference, as in the standard In-cremental approach (Dale and Reiter, 1995).
If thedescription is uniquely identifying, the algorithmterminates.
If not, a relational property relating rto a landmark object o is included in L, and thealgorithm is called recursively to describe o usingan atomic description if possible.Since Baseline terminates as soon as a uniquelyidentifying description is obtained, the landmarkdescription will be usually left underspecified as inexample (a) in Section 1.
This behaviour is consis-tent with existing relational REG algorithms (e.g.,(Dale and Haddock, 1991; Krahmer et al, 2003)).Using the Baseline descriptions as a startingpoint, however, we may decide to fully-specify thelandmark description (e.g., in order to facilitatesearch, as in (Paraboni and van Deemter, 2014))by selecting an additional property p from the re-mainder P list, hereby called P0.There are of course many ways of defining p. Incorpus-based REG, for instance, a plausible strat-egy would be to assume that the definition of pis domain-dependent, and simply select the mostfrequent (but still discriminatory) property in P0as seen in training data.
We will call this variationthe Most Frequent overspecification strategy.Choosing the most frequent property p maylead to descriptions that closely resemble thoseobserved in the data.
However, we predict that78the availability of a highly discriminatory prop-erty may change this preference.
To illustrate this,we will also consider a Proposal strategy in whichp is taken to be the most discriminatory propertyavailable in P0.
In case of a tie, the most fre-quent property that appears in P0is selected.
IfP0does not contain any discriminatory properties,none will be selected and the landmark descrip-tion will remain underspecified as in the standardBaseline approach.The context in the previous Fig.1 and the ac-companying examples (a-c) in Section 1 illustratethe expected output of each of the three algorithmsunder consideration.
As in previous work on re-lational REG, the Baseline approach would pro-duce the minimally distinguishing description (a);the Most Frequent strategy would overspecify thelandmark portion of the description by adding thepreferred property in the relevant domain (e.g.,colour) as in (b); and the Proposal strategy wouldoverspecify by adding the highly discriminatoryproperty (in this particular example, size) as in (c).The relation between the three algorithms andour research hypothesis h1 is straightforward.
Wewould like to show that the predictions made byProposal are more accurate than those made byBaseline and Most Frequent.
An experiment toverify this claim is described in the next section.4 ExperimentFor evaluation purposes we will make use theStars2 corpus of referring expressions1.
Stars2 isan obvious choice for our experiment since thesedata convey visual scenes in which objects willusually have one highly discriminatory propertyavailable for reference.
Moreover, descriptions inthis domain may convey up to two relations (e.g.,?the cone next to the ball, near the cone?
), whichgives rise to multiple opportunities for referentialoverspecification.In addition to this, we will also make use of thesubset of relational descriptions available from theGRE3D3 (Dale and Viethen, 2009) and GRE3D7(Viethen and Dale, 2011) corpora.
Situations ofreference in the GRE3D3/7 domain are in manyways simpler than those in Stars2 (i.e., by con-taining at most one possible relation in each scene,by not presenting any property whose discrimina-tory power is substantially higher than others etc.
),1Some of the corpus features are described in (Ferreiraand Paraboni, 2014)but the comparison is still useful since GRE3D3/7are among the very few annotated relational REGcorpora made publicly available for research pur-poses, and which have been extensively used inprevious work.From the three domains - Stars2, GRE3D3 andGRE3D7 - we selected all instances of relationaldescriptions in which the landmark object was de-scribed by making use of the type attribute and ex-actly one additional property p. This amounts tothree Reference sets containing 725 descriptionsin total: 367 descriptions from Stars2, 114 fromGRE3D3 and 244 from GRE3D7.In the situations of reference available fromthese domains, the use of p is never necessary fordisambiguation, and p will never be selected by astandard REG algorithm as the Baseline strategydescribed in the previous section.
Thus, our goalis to investigate which overspecification strategy -Proposal or Most Frequent, cf.
previous section -will select the correct p, and the corresponding im-pact of this decision on the overall results of eachalgorithm.From the unused portion of each corpus, we es-timate attribute frequencies to create the prefer-ence list P required by the algorithms.
The fol-lowing preference orders were obtained:P (Stars2) ={type, colour, size, near, in-front-of,right, left, below, above, behind}P (GRE3D) ={type, colour, size, above, in-front-of,hpos, vpos, near, right, left}In the case of the GRE3D3/7 corpora, we no-tice that not all attributes appear in both data sets.Moreover, the attributes hpos and vpos were com-puted from the existing pos attribute, which wasoriginally intended to model both horizontal andvertical screen coordinates as a single property in(Dale and Viethen, 2009).Each of the three REG strategies - Baseline,Proposal and Most Frequent - received as an in-put the 725 situations of reference represented inthe Reference data and the corresponding P listfor each domain.
As a result, three sets of outputdescriptions were obtained, hereby called Systemsets.Evaluation was carried out by comparing eachSystem set to the corresponding Reference cor-pus descriptions and measuring Dice scores (Dice,1945) and overall accuracy (that is, the number ofexact matches between each System-Reference de-scription pair).79Table 1: ResultsAlgorithm Baseline Most frequent ProposalDice Accuracy Dice Accuracy Dice AccuracyDataset mean sdv mean sdv mean sdv mean sdv mean sdv mean sdvStars2 0.63 0.14 0.00 0.00 0.62 0.18 0.11 0.31 0.76 0.18 0.27 0.45GRE3D3 0.81 0.06 0.00 0.00 0.87 0.10 0.25 0.43 0.90 0.09 0.36 0.48GRE3D7 0.84 0.07 0.00 0.00 0.92 0.10 0.47 0.50 0.89 0.10 0.34 0.48Overall 0.73 0.15 0.00 0.00 0.76 0.21 0.25 0.43 0.82 0.16 0.31 0.465 ResultsTable 1 shows descriptive statistics for the eval-uation of our three algorithms - Baseline, Pro-posal and Most Frequent - applied to each corpus- Stars2, GRE3D3 and GRE3D7.
Best results arehighlighted in boldface.Following (Gatt and Belz, 2007) and manyothers, we compare Dice scores obtained by thethree algorithms applied to the generation ofthe selected descriptions of each domain usingWilcoxon?s signed-rank test.
In the Overall evalua-tion, Proposal outperforms both alternatives.
Thedifference is significant (W (338)=-34327, Z=-9.55, p < 0.0001).
Highly discriminatory proper-ties are indeed those that are normally selected byhuman speakers when they decide to overspecify alandmark description.
This supports our researchhypothesis h1.Individual results are as follows.
In thecase of the Stars2 domain, Proposal outperformsboth alternatives.
The difference is significant(W (241)=-26639, Z=-12.29, p < 0.0001).
Inthe case of GRE3D3, once again Proposal out-performs the alternatives.
The difference is alsosignificant (W (27)=-248, Z=-2.97, p < 0.03).
Fi-nally, in the case of GRE3D7, an effect in the op-position direction was observed, i.e., the Most Fre-quent algorithm outperforms the alternatives.
Thedifference is significant (W (70)=1477, Z=4.32,p < 0.0001).The differences across domains are explainedby the proportion of highly discriminatory land-mark properties in each corpus.
In Stars2, thenearest landmark has at least one highly discrim-inatory property in all scenes involving relationalreference.
In GRE3D3, the nearest landmark hasa highly discriminatory property in 80% of thescenes, and in GRE3D7 this is the case in only50% of the scenes.
Thus, given the opportu-nity, the use of a highly discriminatory propertyseems to be preferred.
The absence of a prop-erty that ?stands out?, by contrast, appears to makethe choice among them a matter of preference, anobservation that is consistent with the findings in(Gatt et al, 2013).6 Final remarksThis paper has presented a practical REG experi-ment to illustrate the impact of discrimination onthe generation of overspecified relational descrip-tions.
The experiment shows that discrimination -which normally plays a major role in the disam-biguation task - is also a considerable influencein referential overspecification, that is, even whendiscrimination is in principle not an issue.
Ourfindings correlate with previous empirical work inthe field, and show that discrimination may effec-tively trump the inherent preference for absoluteproperties and for those that are easier to realisein surface form.
For instance, contrary to (Pech-mann, 1989) and many others, speakers wouldgenerally prefer referring to size as in (b), despiteevidence suggesting that colour is overspecifiedmore frequently than size.
Moreover, contrary to(Kelleher and Kruijff, 2006), speakers would alsoprefer referring to a spatial relation as in (c) eventhough the resulting descriptions turns out to bemore complex.We are aware that the present work has focussedon extreme situations in which a highly discrimi-natory property is available for overspecification.As future work, it is necessary to further this inves-tigation by taking into account various degrees ofdiscrimination.
As suggested in (Gatt et al, 2013),the effect of discrimination may be perceived as acontinuum, and in that case a practical REG algo-rithm should be able to make more complex deci-sions that those presently implemented.AcknowledgementsThis work has been supported by FAPESP and bythe University of S?ao Paulo.80ReferencesC.
Areces, S. Figueira, and D.
Gor??n.
2011.
Us-ing logic in the generation of referring expressions.In Proceedings of the 6th International Conferenceon Logical Aspects of Computational Linguistics(LACL 2011), pages 17?32, Montpelier.
Springer.A.
Arts, A. Maes, L. G. M. Noordman, and C. Jansen.2011.
Overspecification facilitates object identifica-tion.
Journal of Pragmatics, 43(1):361?374.E.
Belke and A. Meyer.
2002.
Tracking the time courseof multidimensional stimulus discrimination.
Euro-pean Journal of Cognitive Psychology, 14(2):237?266.D.
Byron, A. Koller, J. Oberlander, L. Stoia, andK.
Striegnitz.
2007.
Generating instructions in vir-tual environments (GIVE): A challenge and evalua-tion testbed for NLG.
In Workshop on Shared Tasksand Comparative Evaluation in Natural LanguageGeneration.H.
Clark and D. Wilkes-Gibbs.
1986.
Referring as acollaborative process.
Cognition, 22:1?39.R.
Dale and N. J. Haddock.
1991.
Content determina-tion in the generation of referring expressions.
Com-putational Intelligence, 7(4):252?265.R.
Dale and E. Reiter.
1995.
Computational interpreta-tions of the Gricean maxims in the generation of re-ferring expressions.
Cognitive Science, 19(2):233?263.Robert Dale and Jette Viethen.
2009.
Referring ex-pression generation through attribute-based heuris-tics.
In Proceedings of ENLG-2009, pages 58?65.Robert Dale.
2002.
Cooking up referring expressions.In Proceedings of the 27th Annual Meeting of the As-sociation for Computational Linguistics, pages 68?75.Diego Jesus de Lucena, Ivandr?e Paraboni, andDaniel Bastos Pereira.
2010.
From semanticproperties to surface text: The generation of do-main object descriptions.
Inteligencia Artificial.Revista Iberoamericana de Inteligencia Artificial,14(45):48?58.L.
R. Dice.
1945.
Measures of the amount of ecologicassociation between species.
Ecology, 26(3):297?302.Diego dos Santos Silva and Ivandr?e Paraboni.
2015.Generating spatial referring expressions in interac-tive 3D worlds.
Spatial Cognition and Computation.P.
E. Engelhardt, K. Baileyand, and F. Ferreira.
2006.Do speakers and listeners observe the Griceanmaxim of quantity?
Journal of Memory and Lan-guage, 54(4):554?573.P.
E. Engelhardt, S. B. Demiral, and Fernanda Ferreira.2011.
Over-specified referring expressions impaircomprehension: An ERP study.
Brain and Cogni-tion, 77(2):304?314.Thiago Castro Ferreira and Ivandr?e Paraboni.
2014.Referring expression generation: taking speakers?preferences into account.
Lecture Notes in ArtificialIntelligence, 8655:539?546.C.
Gardent.
2002.
Generating minimal definite de-scriptions.
In Proceedings of the 40th Annual Meet-ing of the Association for Computational Linguis-tics, pages 96?103.Albert Gatt and Anja Belz.
2007.
The attribute selec-tion for GRE challenge: Overview and evaluationresults.
In UCNLG+MT: Language Generation andMachine Translation.Albert Gatt, E. Krahmer, R. van Gompel, and K. vanDeemter.
2013.
Production of referring expres-sions: Preference trumps discrimination.
In 35thMeeting of the Cognitive Science Society, pages483?488.H.
P. Grice.
1975.
Logic and conversation.
In PeterCole and Jerry L. Morgan, editors, Syntax and se-mantics, volume 3.
New York: Academic Press.J.
D. Kelleher and G. Kruijff.
2006.
Incremental gen-eration of spatial referring expressions in situated di-alog.
In Proceedings of the 21st International Con-ference on Computational Linguistics and 44th An-nual Meeting of the ACL, pages 1041?1048.Ruud Koolen, Albert Gatt, Martijn Goudbeek, andEmiel Krahmer.
2011.
Factors causing overspec-ification in definite descriptions.
Journal of Prag-matics, 43(13):3231?3250.Emiel Krahmer and Mariet Theune.
2002.
Effi-cient context-sensitive generation of referring ex-pressions.
In Kees van Deemter and Rodger Kibble,editors, Information Sharing: Reference and Pre-supposition in Language Generation and Interpre-tation, pages 223?264.
CSLI Publications, Stanford,CA.E.
Krahmer and Kees van Deemter.
2012.
Computa-tional generation of referring expressions: A survey.Computational Linguistics, 38(1):173?218.Emiel Krahmer, Sebastiaan van Erk, and Andre Verleg.2003.
Graph-based generation of referring expres-sions.
Computational Linguistics, 29(1):53?72.W.
Levelt.
1989.
Speaking: From intention to articu-lation.
MIT press, Cambridge, Ma.D.
R. Olson.
1970.
Language and thought: aspectsof a cognitive theory of semantics.
PsychologicalReview, 77(4):257?273.81Ivandr?e Paraboni and Kees van Deemter.
2014.
Ref-erence and the facilitation of search in spatial do-mains.
Language, Cognition and Neuroscience,29(8):1002?1017.Ivandr?e Paraboni, Judith Masthoff, and Kees vanDeemter.
2006.
Overspecified reference in hierar-chical domains: measuring the benefits for readers.In Proc.
of INLG-2006, pages 55?62, Sydney.T.
Pechmann.
1989.
Incremental speech produc-tion and referential overspecification.
Linguistics,27(1):98?110.Sammie Tarenskeen, Mirjam Broersma, and BartGeurts.
2014.
Referential overspecification: Colouris not that special.
In RefNet Workshop on Psy-chological and Computational Models of ReferenceComprehension and Production, Edinburgh, Scot-land.Caio V. M. Teixeira, Ivandr?e Paraboni, Adriano S. R.da Silva, and Alan K. Yamasaki.
2014.
Gener-ating relational descriptions involving mutual dis-ambiguation.
Lecture Notes in Computer Science,8403:492?502.R.
van Gompel, Albert Gatt, E. Krahmer, and K. vanDeemter.
2012.
PRO: A computational modelof referential overspecification.
In Proceedings ofAMLAP-2012.Roger van Gompel, Albert Gatt, Emiel Krahmer, andKees Van Deemter.
2014.
Testing computationalmodels of reference generation as models of humanlanguage production: The case of size contrast.
InRefNet Workshop on Psychological and Computa-tional Models of Reference Comprehension and Pro-duction, Edinburgh, Scotland.Jette Viethen and Robert Dale.
2011.
GRE3D7: A cor-pus of distinguishing descriptions for objects in vi-sual scenes.
In Proceedings of UCNLG+Eval-2011,pages 12?22.Jette Viethen, Martijn Goudbeek, and Emiel Krahmer.2012.
The impact of colour difference and colourcodability on reference production.
In Proceedingsof CogSci-2012, pages 1084?1098.Jette Viethen, Margaret Mitchell, and Emiel Krahmer.2013.
Graphs and spatial relations in the generationof referring expressions.
In Proceedings of the 14thEuropean Workshop on Natural Language Genera-tion, pages 72?81, Sofia, Bulgaria, August.
Associ-ation for Computational Linguistics.82
