Proceedings of the 53rd Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguisticsand the 7th International Joint Conference on Natural Language Processing (Short Papers), pages 438?444,Beijing, China, July 26-31, 2015.c?2015 Association for Computational LinguisticsThe Media Frames Corpus: Annotations of Frames Across IssuesDallas Card1Amber E. Boydstun2Justin H. Gross3Philip Resnik4Noah A. Smith11School of Computer Science, Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, PA 15213, USA2Department of Political Science, University of California, Davis, CA 95616, USA3Department of Political Science, University of Massachusetts, Amherst, MA 01003, USA4UMIACS, University of Maryland, College Park, MD 20742, USAdcard@cmu.edu aboydstun@ucdavis.edu jhgross@polsci.umass.eduresnik@umiacs.umd.edu nasmith@cs.cmu.eduAbstractWe describe the first version of the Me-dia Frames Corpus: several thousand newsarticles on three policy issues, annotatedin terms of media framing.
We motivateframing as a phenomenon of study forcomputational linguistics and describe ourannotation process.1 IntroductionAn important part of what determines how infor-mation will be interpreted by an audience is howthat information is framed.
Framing is a phe-nomenon largely studied and debated in the socialsciences, where, for example, researchers explorehow news media shape debate around policy is-sues by deciding what aspects of an issue to em-phasize, and what to exclude.
Theories of fram-ing posit that these decisions give rise to thematicsets of interrelated ideas, imagery, and arguments,which tend to cohere and persist over time.Past work on framing includes many examplesof issue-specific studies based on manual contentanalysis (Baumgartner et al, 2008; Berinsky andKinder, 2006).
While such studies reveal muchabout the range of opinions on an issue, they donot characterize framing at a level of abstractionthat allows comparison across social issues.More recently, there have also been a handful ofpapers on the computational analysis of framing(Nguyen et al, 2015; Tsur et al, 2015; Baumer etal., 2015).
While these papers represent impres-sive advances, they are still focused on the prob-lem of automating the analysis of framing along asingle dimension, or within a particular domain.We propose that framing can be understood as ageneral aspect of linguistic communication aboutfacts and opinions on any issue.
Empirical assess-ment of this hypothesis requires analyzing framingin real-world media coverage.
To this end, we con-tribute an initial dataset of annotated news articles,the Media Frames Corpus (version 1).
These an-notations are based on 15 general-purpose meta-frames (here called ?framing dimensions?)
out-lined below, which are intended to subsume allspecific frames that might be encountered on anyissue of public concern.Several features of this annotation project dis-tinguish it from linguistic annotation projects fa-miliar to computational linguists:?
A degree of subjectivity in framing analysisis unavoidable.
While some variation in an-notations is due to mistakes and misunder-standings by annotators (and is to be mini-mized), much variation is due to valid differ-ences in interpretation (and is therefore prop-erly preserved in the coding process).?
Annotator skill appears to improve with prac-tice; our confidence in the quality of the an-notations has grown in later phases of theproject, and this attribute is not suppressed inour data release.All of the annotations and metadata in this cor-pus are publicly available, along with tools to ac-quire the original news articles usable by thosewho have an appropriate license to the texts fromtheir source (Lexis-Nexis).1This dataset andplanned future extensions will enable computa-tional linguists and others to develop and empir-ically test models of framing.2 What is Framing?Consider a politically contested issue such assame-sex marriage.
Conflicting perspectives onthis issue compete to attract our attention and in-fluence our opinions; any communications about1https://github.com/dallascard/media_frames_corpus438the issue?whether emanating from political par-ties, activist organizations, or media providers?will be fraught with decisions about how the issueshould be defined and presented.In a widely cited definition, Entman (1993) ar-gues that ?to frame is to select some aspects of aperceived reality and make them more salient in acommunicating text, in such a way as to promoteproblem definition, causal interpretation, moralevaluation, and/or treatment recommendation forthe item described.?
Further elaborations have em-phasized how various elements of framing tendto align and cohere, eventually being deployed?packages?
which can be evoked through particu-lar phrases, images, or other synecdoches (Game-son and Modigliani, 1989; Benford and Snow,2000; Chong and Druckman, 2007).
These maytake the form of simple slogans, such as the waron terror, or more complex, perhaps unstated, as-sumptions, such as the rights of individuals, or theresponsibilities of government.
The patterns thatemerge from these decisions and assumptions are,in essence, what we refer to as framing.2Traditionally, in the social sciences, framing isstudied by developing an extensive codebook offrames specific to an issue, reading large num-bers of documents, and manually annotating themfor the presence of the frames in the codebook(e.g., Baumgartner et al, 2008; Terkildsen andSchnell, 1997).
Computational linguists thereforehave much to offer in formalizing and automatingthe analysis of framing, enabling greater scale andbreadth of application across issues.3 Annotation SchemeThe goal of our annotation process was to pro-duce a corpus of examples demonstrating how thechoice of language in a document relates to fram-ing in a non-issue-specific way.
To accomplishthis task, we annotated news articles with a setof 15 cross-cutting framing dimensions, such aseconomics, morality, and politics, developed byBoydstun et al (2014).
These dimensions, sum-marized in Figure 1, were informed by the fram-ing literature and developed to be general enoughto be applied to any policy issue.For each article, annotators were asked to iden-tify any of the 15 framing dimensions present in2A distinct though related usage, known as ?equivalenceframing?
in psychology, refers to different phrasings of se-mantically equivalent expressions (e.g., is an 8-ounce glasscontaining 4 ounces of water half empty or half full?
).Economic: costs, benefits, or other financial implicationsCapacity and resources: availability of physical, humanor financial resources, and capacity of current systemsMorality: religious or ethical implicationsFairness and equality: balance or distribution of rights,responsibilities, and resourcesLegality, constitutionality and jurisprudence: rights,freedoms, and authority of individuals, corporations, andgovernmentPolicy prescription and evaluation: discussion of specificpolicies aimed at addressing problemsCrime and punishment: effectiveness and implications oflaws and their enforcementSecurity and defense: threats to welfare of the individual,community, or nationHealth and safety: health care, sanitation, public safetyQuality of life: threats and opportunities for the individ-ual?s wealth, happiness, and well-beingCultural identity: traditions, customs, or values of a socialgroup in relation to a policy issuePublic opinion: attitudes and opinions of the general pub-lic, including polling and demographicsPolitical: considerations related to politics and politicians,including lobbying, elections, and attempts to sway votersExternal regulation and reputation: international reputa-tion or foreign policy of the U.S.Other: any coherent group of frames not covered by theabove categoriesFigure 1: Framing dimensions from Boydstun et al (2014).the article and to label spans of text which cuedthem.
Annotators also identified the dominantframing of the article headline (if present), as wellas for the entire article, which we refer to as the?primary frame.?
Finally, newspaper corrections,articles shorter than four lines of text, and articlesabout foreign countries were marked as irrelevant.There were no constraints on the length or com-position of annotated text spans, and annotationswere allowed to overlap.
The last framing dimen-sion (?Other?)
was used to categorize any articlesthat didn?t conform to any of the other options(used in < 10% of cases).
An example of two in-dependent annotations of the same article is shownin Figure 2.For the initial version of this corpus, three pol-icy issues were chosen for their expected diver-sity of framing and their contemporary politicalrelevance: immigration, smoking, and same-sexmarriage.
Lexis-Nexis was used to obtain all arti-cles matching a set of keywords published by a setof 13 national U.S. newspapers between the years1990 and 2012.3Duplicate and near-duplicate ar-ticles were removed and randomly selected arti-cles were chosen for annotation for each issue (seesupplementary material for additional details).3The immigration articles extend back to 1969, thoughthere are few before 1980.439Annotation guidelines for the project are docu-mented in a codebook, which was used for trainingthe annotators.
The codebook for these issues wasrefined in an ongoing manner to include examplesfrom each issue, and more carefully delineate theboundaries between the framing dimensions.4 Annotation ProcessOur annotation process reflects the less-than-idealcircumstances faced by academics requiring con-tent analysis: relatively untrained annotators, highturnover, and evolving guidelines.
Our process isdelineated into three stages, summarized in Ta-ble 1 and discussed in detail below.
Each stageinvolved 14?20-week-long rounds of coding; ineach round, annotators were given approximately100 articles to annotate, and the combinations ofannotators assigned the same articles were rotatedbetween rounds.
Our annotators were undergrad-uates students at a U.S. research university, anda total of 19 worked on this project, with 8 be-ing involved in more than one stage.
The aver-age number of frames identified in an article variedfrom 2.0 to 3.7 across annotators, whereas the av-erage number of spans highlighted per article var-ied from 3.4 to 10.0.
Additional detail is given inTable 1 in the supplementary material.Stage Issue ArticlesAv.
annotatorsper article1 Immigration 4,113 1.21 Smoking 4,077 1.22 Same-sex marriage 6,298 2.23 Immigration 5,549 2.2Table 1: Summary of the number of articles annotated andaverage number of annotators per article4.1 Stage 1During the first stage, approximately 4,000 arti-cles on each of immigration and smoking were an-notated, with approximately 500 articles in eachgroup annotated by multiple annotators to mea-sure inter-annotator agreement.
Our goals herewere high coverage and ensuring that the guide-lines were not too narrowly adapted to any singleissue.
Annotators received only minimal feedbackon their agreement levels during this stage.4.2 Stage 2In the second stage, annotations shifted to same-sex marriage articles, again emphasizing generalfit across issues.
Beginning in stage 2, each article[WHERE THE JOBS ARE]Economic[Critics of illegal immigration can make manycogent arguments to support the position thatthe U.S. Congress and the Colorado legisla-ture must develop effective and well-enforcedimmigration policies that will restrict thenumber of people who migrate here legallyand illegally.
]Policy prescription[It?s true that all forms of [immigration ex-ert influence over our economic and culturalmake-up.
]Cultural identityIn some ways, im-migration improves our economy by addinglaborers, taxpayers and consumers, and inother ways immigration detracts from oureconomy by increasing the number of stu-dents, health care recipients and other ben-eficiaries of public services.
]Economic[Some economists say that immigrants, le-gal and illegal, produce a net economicgain, while others say that they create a netloss]Economic.
There are rational arguments tosupport both sides of this debate, and it?s usefuland educational to hear the varying positions.
[WHERE THE JOBS ARE]Economic[Critics of illegal immigration can make manycogent arguments to support the position thatthe U.S. Congress and the Colorado legisla-ture must develop effective and well-enforcedimmigration policies that will restrict thenumber of people who migrate here legallyand illegally.
]Public opinion[It?s true that all forms of immigration ex-ert influence over our economic and [culturalmake-up.
]Cultural identityIn some ways, im-migration improves our economy by addinglaborers, taxpayers and consumers, and inother ways [immigration detracts from oureconomy by increasing the number of stu-dents, health care recipients and other benefi-ciaries of public services.
]Capacity]Economic[Some economists say that immigrants, le-gal and illegal, produce a net economicgain, while others say that they create a netloss.
]EconomicThere are rational arguments tosupport both sides of this debate, and it?s usefuland educational to hear the varying positions.Figure 2: Two independent annotations of a 2006 editorial inthe Denver Post.
The annotators agree perfectly about whichparts of the article make use of economic framing, but dis-agree about the first paragraph.
Moreover, the second an-notator identifies an additional dimension (capacity and re-sources).
Although they both identify a reference to culturalidentity, they annotated slightly different spans of text.440was assigned to at least two annotators, in orderto track inter-annotator agreement more carefully,and to better capture the subjectivity inherent inthis task.
Since the guidelines had become morestable by this stage, we also focused on identifyinggood practices for annotator training.
Annotatorswere informed of their agreement levels with eachother, and pairs of framing dimensions on whichannotators frequently disagreed were emphasized.This information was presented to annotators inweekly meetings.4.3 Stage 3The third stage revisited the immigration articlesfrom stage 1 (plus an additional group of articles),with the now well-developed annotation guide-lines.
As in the second stage, almost all articleswere annotated by two annotators, working inde-pendently.
More detailed feedback was provided,including inter-annotator agreement for the use ofeach framing dimension anywhere in articles.During stage 3, for each article where two an-notators independently disagreed on the primaryframe, the pair met to discuss the disagreementand attempt to come to a consensus.4Disagree-ments continue to arise, however, reflecting the re-ality that the same article can cue different framesmore strongly for different annotators.
We viewthese disagreements not as a weakness, but as asource of useful information about the diversity ofways in which the same text can be interpreted bydifferent audiences (Pan and Kosicki, 1993; Reeset al, 2001).The proportion of articles annotated with eachframing dimension (averaged across annotators) isshown in Figure 3.5 Inter-annotator AgreementBecause our annotation task is complex (select-ing potentially overlapping text spans and label-ing them), there is no single comprehensive mea-sure of inter-annotator agreement.
The simplestaspect of the annotations to compare is the choiceof primary frame, which we measure using Krip-pendorff?s ?
(Krippendorff, 2012).54A small secondary experiment, described in supplemen-tary material, was used to test the reliability of this process.5Krippendorff?s ?
is similar to Cohen?s ?, but calculatesexpected agreement between annotators based on the com-bined pool of labels provided by all annotators, rather thanconsidering each annotators?s frequency of use separately.Moreover, it can be used for more than two annotators and0.0 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5Proportion of articlesExternal regulationOtherCapacity & resourcesSecurity & defenseIrrelevantCultural identityQuality of lifePublic opinionMoralityCrime & punishmentFairness & equalityPolicy prescriptionEconomicHealth & safetyPoliticalLegalityImmigrationSmokingSame-sex marr.Figure 3: Proportion of articles annotated with each of theframing dimensions (averaging across annotators for each ar-ticle).Figure 4 shows the inter-annotator agreementon the primary frame per round.
We observe firstthat difficulty varies by issue, with same-sex mar-riage the most difficult.
Annotators do appear toimprove with experience.
Agreement on immi-gration articles in stage 3 are significantly higher(p < 0.05, permutation test) than agreement onthe same articles in stage 1, even though only oneannotator worked on both stages.6These results demonstrate that consistent per-formance can be obtained from different groupsof annotators, given sufficient training.
Althoughwe never obtain perfect agreement, this is not sur-prising, given that the same sentences can and docue multiple types of framing, as illustrated by theexample in Figure 2.Inter-annotator agreement at the level of indi-vidually selected spans of text can be assessed us-ing an extension of Krippendorff?s ?
(?U) whichmeasures disagreement between two spans as thesum of the squares of the lengths of the parts whichdo not overlap.7As with the more common ?statistic, ?Uis a chance-corrected agreement met-ric scaled such that 1 represents perfect agreementand 0 represents the level of chance.
This met-accommodates missing values.
See Passonneau and Carpen-ter (2014) for additional details.6Note that this is not a controlled experiment on annota-tion procedures, but rather a difference observed between twostages of an evolving process.7For example, in the example shown in Figure 2, theamount of disagreement on the two Cultural identity annota-tions would be the square of the length (in characters) of thenon-overlapping part of the annotations (?immigration exertinfluence over our economic and?)
which is 502= 2500.4410 10 20 30 40Round0.00.20.40.60.81.0Krippendorff?sAlphaStage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3ImmigrationSmokingSame-sex marriageFigure 4: Chance-corrected inter-annotator agreement on theprimary frame.
Marker size indicates the number of annota-tions being compared; ?
= 1 indicates perfect agreement.ric has been previously recommended for tasksin computational linguistics that involve unitizing(Artstein and Poesio, 2008).
For a more completeexplanation, see Krippendorff (2004).The pattern of ?Uvalues across rounds is verysimilar to that shown in Figure 4, but not surpris-ingly, average levels of agreement are much lower.Arguably, this agreement statistic is overly harshfor our purposes.
We do not necessarily expect an-notators to agree perfectly about where to start andend each annotated span, or how many spans toannotate per article, and our codebook and guide-lines offer relatively little guidance on these low-level decisions.
Nevertheless, it is encouragingthat in all cases, average agreement is greater thanchance.
The ?Uvalues for all annotated spans oftext (averaged across articles) are 0.16 for immi-gration (stage 1), 0.23 for tobacco, 0.08 for same-sex marriage, and 0.20 for immigration (stage 3).6 Prior WorkSeveral previous papers in the computer scienceliterature deal with framing, though usually in amore restricted sense.
Perhaps the most com-mon approach is to treat the computational anal-ysis of framing as a variation on sentiment analy-sis, though this often involves reducing framing toa binary variable.
Various models have been ap-plied to news and social media datasets with thegoal of identifying political ideology, or ?perspec-tive?
(typically on a liberal to conservative scale)(Ahmed and Xing, 2010; Gentzkow and Shapiro,2010; Lin et al, 2006; Hardisty et al, 2010; Kle-banov et al, 2010; Sim et al, 2013; Iyyer et al,2014), or ?stance?
(position for or against an is-sue) (Walker et al, 2012; Hasan and Ng, 2013).A related line of work is the analysis of subjec-tive language or ?scientific?
language, which hasalso been posed in terms of framing (Wiebe et al,2004; Choi et al, 2012).
While the study of ideol-ogy, sentiment, and subjectivity are interesting intheir own right, we believe that they fail to cap-ture the more nuanced nature of framing, which isoften more complex than positive or negative sen-timent.
In discussions of same-sex marriage, forexample, both advocates and opponents may at-tempt to control whether the issue is perceived asprimarily about politics, legality, or ethics.
More-over, we emphasize that framing is an importantfeature of even seemingly neutral or objective lan-guage.A different but equally relevant line of work hasfocused on text re-use.
Leskovec et al (2009)perform clustering of quotations and their vari-ations, uncovering patterns in the temporal dy-namics of how memes spread through the me-dia.
On a smaller scale, others have examined textreuse in the development of legislation and the cul-ture of reprinting in nineteenth-century newspa-pers (Smith et al, 2013; Smith et al, 2014).
Whilenot the same as framing, identifying this sort oftext reuse is an important step towards analyzingthe ?media packages?
that social scientists asso-ciate with framing.7 ConclusionFraming is a complex and difficult aspect of lan-guage to study, but as with so many aspects ofmodern NLP, there is great potential for progressthrough the use of statistical methods and publicdatasets, both labelled and unlabeled.
By releas-ing the Media Frames Corpus, we seek to bring thephenomenon to the attention of the computationallinguistics community, and provide a frameworkthat others can use to analyze framing for addi-tional policy issues.
As technology progresses to-wards ever more nuanced understanding of naturallanguage, it is important to analyze not just whatis being said, but how, and with what effects.
TheMedia Frames Corpus enables the next step in thatdirection.Acknowledgments This research was supportedby NSF grants 1211201, 1211266, 1211277, and1211153.442ReferencesAmr Ahmed and Eric P. Xing.
2010.
Staying in-formed: Supervised and semi-supervised multi-viewtopical analysis of ideological perspective.
In Proc.of EMNLP.Ron Artstein and Massimo Poesio.
2008.
Inter-coderagreement for computational linguistics.
Computa-tional Linguistics, 34(4):555?596.Eric Baumer, Elisha Elovic, Ying Qin, Francesca Pol-letta, and Geri Gay.
2015.
Testing and comparingcomputational approaches for identifying the lan-guage of framing in political news.
In Proc.
ofNAACL.Frank R. Baumgartner, Suzanna L. De Boef, and Am-ber E. Boydstun.
2008.
The decline of the deathpenalty and the discovery of innocence.
CambridgeUniversity Press.Robert D. Benford and David A.
Snow.
2000.
Framingprocesses and social movements: An overview andassessment.
Annual Review of Sociology, 26:611?639.Adam J. Berinsky and Donald R. Kinder.
2006.
Mak-ing sense of issues through media frames: Under-standing the Kosovo crisis.
Journal of Politics,68(3):640?656.Amber E. Boydstun, Dallas Card, Justin H. Gross,Philip Resnik, and Noah A. Smith.
2014.
Trackingthe development of media frames within and acrosspolicy issues.
APSA 2014 Annual Meeting Paper.Eunsol Choi, Chenhao Tan, Lillian Lee, CristianDanescu-Niculescu-Mizil, and Jennifer Spindel.2012.
Hedge detection as a lens on framing in theGMO debates: A position paper.
In Proc of.
ACLWorkshop on Extra-Propositional Aspects of Mean-ing in Computational Linguistics, pages 70?79.Dennis Chong and James N. Druckman.
2007.
Fram-ing theory.
Annual Review of Political Science,10(1):103?126.Robert M. Entman.
1993.
Framing: Toward clarifica-tion of a fractured paradigm.
Journal of Communi-cation, 43(4):51?58.William A. Gameson and Andre Modigliani.
1989.Media discourse and public opinion on nuclearpower: A constructionist approach.
American Jour-nal of Sociology, 95(1):1?37.Matthew Gentzkow and Jesse M. Shapiro.
2010.
Whatdrives media slant?
Evidence from U.S. daily news-papers.
Econometrica, 78(1):35?71.Eric Hardisty, Jordan L. Boyd-Graber, and PhilipResnik.
2010.
Modeling perspective using adaptorgrammars.
In Proc.
of EMNLP.Kazi Saidul Hasan and Vincent Ng.
2013.
Stance clas-sification of ideological debates: Data, models, fea-tures, and constraints.
In Proc.
of IJCNLP.Mohit Iyyer, Peter Enns, Jordan L. Boyd-Graber, andPhilip Resnik.
2014.
Political ideology detectionusing recursive neural networks.
In Proc.
of ACL.Beata Beigman Klebanov, Eyal Beigman, and DanielDiermeier.
2010.
Vocabulary choice as an indicatorof perspective.
In Proc.
of ACL.Klaus Krippendorff.
2004.
Measuring the reliability ofqualitative text analysis data.
Quality and Quantity,38(6):787?800.Klaus Krippendorff.
2012.
Content Analysis: An In-troduction to its Methodology.
SAGE Publications.Jure Leskovec, Lars Backstrom, and Jon Kleinberg.2009.
Meme-tracking and the dynamics of the newscycle.
In Proc.
of KDD.Wei-Hao Lin, Theresa Wilson, Janyce Wiebe, andAlexander Hauptmann.
2006.
Which side are youon?
Identifying perspectives at the document andsentence levels.
In Proc.
of CoNNL.Viet-An Nguyen, Jordan Boyd-Graber, Philip Resnik,and Kristina Miler.
2015.
Tea party in the house: Ahierarchical ideal point topic model and its applica-tion to Republican legislators in the 112th congress.In Proc.
of ACL.Zhongdang Pan and Gerald M. Kosicki.
1993.
Fram-ing analysis: An approach to news discourse.
Polit-ical communication, 10(1):55?75.Rebecca J. Passonneau and Bob Carpenter.
2014.
Thebenefits of a model of annotation.
In Proc.
of ACL.Stephen D. Rees, Oscar H. Gandy Jr., , and August E.Grant, editors.
2001.
Framing public life: Perspec-tives on media and our understanding of the socialworld.
Routledge.Yanchuan Sim, Brice D. L. Acree, Justin H. Gross, andNoah A. Smith.
2013.
Measuring ideological pro-portions in political speeches.
In Proc.
of EMNLP.David A. Smith, Ryan Cordell, and Elizabeth MaddockDillon.
2013.
Infectious texts: modeling text reusein nineteenth-century newspapers.
In IEEE Interna-tional Conference on Big Data.David A. Smith, Ryan Cordel, Elizabeth Maddock Dil-lon, Nick Stramp, and John Wilkerson.
2014.
De-tecting and modeling local text reuse.
In IEEE/ACMJoint Conference on Digital Libraries.Nayda Terkildsen and Frauke Schnell.
1997.
How me-dia frames move public opinion: An analysis of thewomen?s movement.
Political research quarterly,50(4):879?900.443Oren Tsur, Dan Calacci, and David Lazer.
2015.Frame of mind: Using statistical models for detec-tion of framing and agenda setting campaigns.
InProc.
of ACL.Marilyn A. Walker, Pranav Anand, Robert Abbott, andRicky Grant.
2012.
Stance classification using dia-logic properties of persuasion.
In Proc.
of NAACL.Janyce Wiebe, Theresa Wilson, Rebecca Bruce,Matthew Bell, and Melanie Martin.
2004.
Learn-ing subjective language.
Computational Linguistics,30(3):277?308.444
