Proceedings of ACL-IJCNLP 2015 System Demonstrations, pages 133?138,Beijing, China, July 26-31, 2015.c?2015 ACL and AFNLPStorybase: Towards Building a Knowledge Base for News EventsZhaohui Wu?, Chen Liang?, C. Lee Giles??
?Computer Science and Engineering,?Information Sciences and TechnologyThe Pennsylvania State UniversityUniversity Park, PA 16802, USAzzw109@psu.edu, {cul226,giles}@ist.psu.eduAbstractTo better organize and understand onlinenews information, we propose Storybase1,a knowledge base for news events thatbuilds upon Wikipedia current events anddaily Web news.
It first constructs sto-ries and their timelines based on Wikipedi-a current events and then detects and linksdaily news to enrich those Wikipedia sto-ries with more comprehensive events.
Weencode events and develop efficient even-t clustering and chaining techniques in anevent space.
We demonstrate Storybasewith a news events search engine that help-s find historical and ongoing news storiesand inspect their dynamic timelines.1 IntroductionUsers are often overwhelmed by the flood of infor-mation, especially frequently daily updated news.Search engines effectively find news snippets andrelated Web pages, or group similar pages in clus-ters.
However, it remains difficult to coherentlyconnect isolated information nuggets to form thebig picture, or to accurately track the flow of in-formation to show the evolution of events.
For ex-ample, current news search engines or aggregationsites, such as Google or Yahoo news, show onlyisolated daily news events, without linking themto historical events or show storylines.Most existing knowledge bases such as DBpe-dia and Freebase are designed for managing gen-eral named entities or concepts and often lack cov-erage or representation for temporally evolvingnews events.
For example, as of this writing, Free-base has not treated ?2014 Ferguson unrest?
as an?event?, let alone show its sub events or timelines.As such, we propose building a knowledge base,namely Storybase, that stores news events in a se-1http://breckenridge.ist.psu.edu:8000/storybasemantic coherent schema that could explicitly dis-play their evolving timelines.
We define a storyas a set of topically or causally related and tempo-rally ordered news events, usually correspondingto a Wikipedia article such as ?Malaysia AirlinesFlight 370?.
An event is defined as something im-portant happening at some time in some place, re-ported by a set of news articles, which is encodedby named entities, actors and actions used as themain points in a plot.Building an event knowledge base from scratchis challenging, since it is difficult to obtain agold standard for events and their timelines.
Wefound that Wikipedia current events2provide high-quality manually edited news events.
To scale up,we link daily news sources and fit them into ex-isting stories or create new stories, by efficien-t event detection and storyline construction tech-niques in a semantic space which is encoded withnews events?
entities, actors, and actions.
FromApril 1, 2013 to March 1, 2015, we have collect-ed 1,256 stories consisting of 35,362 news eventsfrom Wikipedia current events, and 35,166,735daily news articles.
Experimental evaluation com-pares our methods for event clustering and chain-ing with multiple baselines.
We build a news eventsearch engine based on Storybase to show news s-tories and their event chains.Our main contributions include:?
A news event knowledge base, Storybase,with a search interface for news storylines;?
The introduction of Wikipedia current eventsas resources for building event knowledgebases and as datasets for event detection andstoryline construction;?
New approaches for event clustering andchaining with experimental comparisons toother baselines.2http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Portal:Current events133NewsCrawling web news from various sourcesPreprocessEvent EncodingCategorizationActors, Actions Entities, Theme ClusteringChainingAttacks and armed conflicts; Disaster and accidents; International relations;  Law and crime;  .
.
.Knowledge Base1.
War in Afghanistan2.
2014 Ukrainian revolution3.
Malaysia Airlines Flight 370 .
.
.+Figure 1: Overall process of building Storybase2 Overview and DefinitionsFigure 1 shows the overall process for building S-torybase.
Input is daily crawled web news arti-cles and Wikipedia current events.
This generatesthe storylines and builds the Storybase using fivesteps system: preprocessing, categorization, eventencoding, clustering, and chaining.
Details are inSection 4.
A news event search engine is built toprovide a query based interface to search and visu-alize the Storybase, which is shown in Section 5.We now define concepts that will be frequentlyreferred to.?
A event identifies something (non-trivial)happening in a certain place at a certaintime (Yang et al., 1999); it is a set of newsarticles on the same news report.?
A story is a set of topical related news events.?
A storyline is a series of temporally orderedevents of the same story.?
Actors in an event are named entities thatmake or receive actions.?
Actions are verbs that connect actors.For example, as shown in Figure 2, ?Pro-Russianmilitants seize the regional prosecutor?s office inthe eastern Ukrainian city of Donetsk?
is an even-t reported by a set of articles from different newssites.
?2014 pro-Russian unrest in Ukraine?
repre-sents a story that consists of temporally evolvingevents, which forms a storyline.
?Pro-Russian mil-itants?
and ?the regional prosecutor?s office?
areactors while ?seize?
is the action.3 Data CollectionWikipedia current events list manually edited dai-ly news events since 1998, which provide richsemantics and structure for news stories andevents such as story names, event categories (notWikipedia categories), and links to Wikipedia con-cepts, as shown by Figure 2.
For example, weEvent category  StoryFigure 2: Examples of Wikipedia current eventscan observe that the event ?Pro-Russian militantsseize the regional prosecutor?s office in the east-ern Ukrainian city of Donetsk?
belongs to the sto-ry ?2014 pro-Russian unrest in Ukraine?
and thecategory ?Armed conflicts and attacks?, contain-ing links to Wikipedia concepts ?Eastern Ukraini-an?
and ?Donetsk?.
Thus, we construct a storylinefor ?2014 pro-Russian unrest in Ukraine?
by con-necting all events under it.The category labels provide a natural wayto classify news events.
However, since theWikipedia events are edited by various users, thecategory labels are not always consistent.
For ex-ample, one may use ?Armed conflicts and attack-s?
while others might use ?Attack and conflict?.After canonicalization using Levenshtein distanceand grouping similar labels using word based Jac-card similarity, we manually clean all the labelsinto 12 categories, as shown in Table 1.Although Wikipedia provides high quality man-ually edited news events, it covers only a smal-l number of events every day, usually less than 30.Thus, to scale up Storybase and make the storiesmore comprehensive, starting from April 1, 2013,we crawl daily news articles from a large numberof sources from various news publishers, providedby GDELT3project (Leetaru and Schrodt, 2013).4 Building Storybase4.1 Preprocess and CategorizationTo extract and parse Wikipedia current events,we implement two template based extractors forevents between January 2003 and April 2006 andthose events after April 2006 respectively due totheir difference in templates.
The news articleslinked at the end of each event description are alsocrawled.
We use boilerpipe4to extract the title andmain text content of each news article.
We extrac-t the first three sentences in the main content forsummarization.3http://www.gdeltproject.org/data.html4https://code.google.com/p/boilerpipe/134ID Category1 conflict, attack2 disaster, accident3 international relations4 politics and elections5 law and crime6 business and economy7 science and technology8 sports9 arts and culture10 health, medicine, environment11 education12 deathsTable 1: Categories of events in StorybaseWe maintain an N-to-1 mapping for each cate-gory listed in Table 1.
For example, any categorylabel in {?Armed conflicts and attacks?, ?conflict-s and attacks?, ?Armed conflicts?, ?Attacks andconflicts?, ?Attacks and armed conflicts?}
will bemapped to Category 1.
For an event not belongingto existing stories, we label its category using themajority of their k-nearest (k=10) neighbors basedon the cosine similarity of event descriptions.4.2 Event EncodingWe encode an event as a vector containing namedentities, actors and actions.
Named entities suchas people and locations in news reports containimportant information of the event.
Core entitiesthat play important roles in an event are calledactors, which are usually people or organizationsthat make or receive actions.
We use the StanfordCoreNLP (Manning et al., 2014) for the namedentity recognition and extract all Wikipedia con-cepts appearing in news content.
Entities that aresubjects or objects in the title and description aretreated as actors.
If no entities are found, we thenuse the CAMEO dictionaries5for actor and actionextraction.4.3 Event Clustering and ChainingEvent clustering groups together news onthe same event.
Locality-Sensitive Hashing(LSH) (Van Durme and Lall, 2010) is used forfast similarity comparison.
We first do dedupli-cation on all articles on the same date using 84bits sim-Hashing (Charikar, 2002).
We then usemodified sim-Hashing on the vector space of eventdescribed in Section 4.2, rather than shingling orbag-of-words (Paulev et al., 2010).
A new articleis encoded into the event space with the content5http://eventdata.parusanalytics.com/data.dir/cameo.htmlFigure 3: Screenshot of category ?Conflict?of its title and description.
Its LSH key k (84 bit-s binary code) is computed and compared to keysof other articles.
Articles whose keys have ham-ming distances smaller than a threshold ?
amongeach other will be clustered as an event.
We thencheck all events of the previous date and mergetwo events into one if their distance (average ham-ming distances of key pairs) is smaller than ?
andtheir categories are the same.Event chaining links an event to an existingstory or determines if it is the starting event ofa new story.
While LSH could give high-purityevent clusters, it might not be able to determinewhether two events with distance larger than ?
aretopically related, or belong to the same story.
Intu-itively, an event should bring some novelty and p-reserve some common information compared withthe previous ones in the story, causing a trade-off between relevance and novelty, which couldbe measured by some textual similarity.
Addingan event should also keep the storyline coherent.To model coherence, we investigate two features,the Connecting-Dots coherence score (Shahaf andGuestrin, 2010) and KL-divergence.
We use thegradient boosting tree (Friedman, 2001) to learn ifan event belongs to a story by using the above fea-tures of relevance/novelty and coherence, all basedon storylines constructed from Wikipedia currentevents.
For a story {e1,...,em}, (ei, {e1, ..., ei?1})are positive pairs; (e?, {e1, ..., ei?1}) are negativepairs, i = 2, ...,m, where e?is an event randomlysampled from other stories in the same date of ei.For all GDELT news on date t, we first detect allevents using event clustering.
For an event that hasnot been merged into events of the previous date,we use the model to decide which story it belongsto.
If none, the event will be served as the firstevent of a new story with an empty story name.135Figure 4: Screenshot results for the query ?Crimea?5 Storybase DemonstrationWe demonstrate Storybase by building a newsevent search engine that can retrieve and visual-ize the stories.
In the backend, we implementedvarious facilities, such as ranking functions (B-M25, cosine similarity, and inner product) and re-fining metrics (popularity and recency).
The rank-ing functions compute relevance between queriesand stories while a story is represented by the storyname and all event descriptions.
Popularity mea-sures the impact of stories on Web.
For simplic-ity, we implement popularity as the accumulativenumber of unique news reports for all events of astory.
Recency measures the timeliness or fresh-ness, which is an important and helpful featurefor sorting and filtering news stories, and is im-plemented by simply sorting stories based on thedate of their latest event.The front page gives a category navigation listin the left, a search box in the middle, and the re-cent stories behind the box.
A category links to therecent events from the category, as shown by Fig-ure 3.
The demo contains three views: storyline,story, and event.
Figure 4 shows a screenshot ofthe storyline view returned by querying ?Crimea?.The results are organized at the story level, wherewe show a thumbnail of the event chain for eachstory.
The description, category, and date of anevent are presented in the event box.
By clickingthe story name, it will direct to a story view pagethat chronologically lists all its events where thestory name links to the corresponding Wikipediaarticle.
Clicking ?more?
for each event links to theevent view page that lists all the news articles ofthe event.
At the upper right corner there is drop-down menu which allow users to set the rankingfunctions and refine metrics.6 ExperimentsWe evaluate the event clustering and chain-ing in an experimental dataset constructed us-ing Wikipedia current events from 01/01/2013 to01/31/2015, which contains 652 stories covering9004 events with 8,944 news articles.We first explore whether our event clusteringcan effectively and efficiently cluster news arti-cles of the same event.
To construct the dataset,we select the events that link to more than 4news articles, which in total gives us 55 eventsfrom 229 news articles.
We then compare ourmethod with the state-of-art clustering algorithm-s including K-means (Hartigan and Wong, 1979)and DBSCAN (Ester et al., 1996), and the state-of-art LSH methods including min-Hashing (Broder,1997) and sim-Hashing (Charikar, 2002).
We usethe cluster module provided by sklearn6.
For bothK-means and DBSCAN, we use TFIDF based Eu-clidean distance in bag-of-word space.
For K-means, we set the number of clusters to 55.
For6http://scikit-learn.org/stable/modules/clustering.html136Methods Precision Recall F1K-means 76.2% 73.1% 74.6%DBSCAN 77.9% 74.6% 76.2%Min-Hashing 82.1% 51.2% 63.1%Sim-Hashing 80.1% 50.2% 61.7%Event-Hashing 79.6% 76.8% 78.2%Table 2: Event clustering comparisonsMethods Avg.
AccuracyCosine 66.7%Connecting-Dots Coherence 45.2%KL Coherence 43.3%Learning based Model 71.5%Table 3: Comparisons of event chainingDBSCAN, we set the neighborhood size (the min-imum number of points required to form a denseregion) as 1.
Both min-Hashing and sim-Hashinggenerate an 84 bits binary code to represent anevent.
We set ?
as 5.Table 2 shows the average precision, recal-l, and F1 scores over all clusters.
Our method(Event-Hashing) outperforms both distance-basedand LSH based clustering algorithms in terms ofeffectiveness, suggesting that our event represen-tation using entities, actors, and actions is a morepromising approach than bag-of-word ones.
Ourmethod is somewhat slower than min-Hashing andsim-Hashing because of the extra computing onthe event space.
It is worth noting that min-Hashing and sim-Hashing have higher precisionsthan ours, but at the cost of a big loss in recall.We then evaluate the effectiveness of the even-t chaining for constructing storylines.
We usethe 458 stories starting in range [01/01/2013,02/28/2014] for training and the other 194 storiesfor testing.
We define accuracy of a construct-ed storyline as the fraction of the correctly linkedevents.
For testing, each story is initialized by itsfirst event.
Thresholds of the three baseline mea-sures are tuned in the training set.
As shown byTable 3, our learning based model combining thethree features significantly outperforms the base-lines in average accuracy over the testing stories.A small scale evaluation on the effectivenessand efficiency of the news event search engine isalso performed.
First, we evaluate the ranking per-formance for different ranking functions on a testquery set including 10 different queries using pre-cision at k (P@k).
The query set contains ?Unit-Method P@3 P@5 P@10 AvgTimePerQueryInn.
Pro.
57 66 69 133msBM25 100 94 92 104msCosine 100 94 96 136msTable 4: Performance comparisons of rankingmethods on event searched States?, ?Russia?, ?China?, ?Barack Obama?,?European Union?, ?President of the United S-tates?, ?Car bomb?, ?North Korea?, ?South Kore-a?, ?President of Russia?.
We choose these queriesbecause they appear frequently in the news articlesand are very likely to be searched by users.
Table 4shows the performance of three ranking functions.The P@k scores for BM25 and cosine similarity ishigher than inner product.
This happens becausethe inner product does not do normalization thusfavors the longer documents which should be lessrelevant in our setting.7 Related WorkLittle work has been reported on the buildingof event knowledge bases with the exception ofEVIN (Kuzey and Weikum, 2014).
However, theirmain focus is on extracting named events fromnews articles in an offline setting for knowledgebase population (Ji and Grishman, 2011), but notbuilding storylines for new events from large scaledaily news streams.Topic detection and tracking (TDT) that ad-dresses event-based organization of news has beenwidely studied (Yang et al., 1999; Allan, 2002;Petrovi?c et al., 2012).
Furthermore, there is arich literature on bursty event detection (Klein-berg, 2002; Fung et al., 2005; He et al., 2007),where an ?event?
is a set of word features thatco-occur in certain time windows in text streams.There is also an emerging interest in building newstimelines (Li and Li, 2013; Yan et al., 2011), eventchains (Chambers and Jurafsky, 2008; Shahaf andGuestrin, 2010; Tannier and Moriceau, 2013), ortopic model based storylines (Ahmed et al., 2011).It is worth noting that some work uses similarevent encoding based on actors and actions for po-litical events (O?Connor et al., 2013).
Our workis different from existing work in both the repre-sentation of an ?event?
and event detection tech-niques.
We use a three-layer (story-event-article)representation to organize the storylines and de-velop efficient clustering and chaining methods onthe event space.1378 Conclusion and Future WorkWe presented Storybase, an event knowledge basefor news stories containing rich temporal andsemantic information and described a storylinebased news event search engine.
Experimental re-sults demonstrated that our proposed methods areeffective and efficient for event detection and s-toryline based search.
Future work could includeenriching properties of a story using Wikipedia in-fobox and better summarizing events and stories.9 AcknowledgementsWe acknowledge partial support from Raytheonand the National Science Foundation, useful dis-cussions with B.J.
Simpson, Robert Cole, PhilipA.
Schrodt, and Muhammed Y. Idris, and techni-cal support from Jian Wu, Kyle Williams, and theCiteseerX team.ReferencesAmr Ahmed, Qirong Ho, Jacob Eisenstein, Eric Xing,Alexander J Smola, and Choon Hui Teo.
2011.
U-nified analysis of streaming news.
In WWW, pages267?276.James Allan.
2002.
Introduction to topic detectionand tracking.
In James Allan, editor, Topic Detec-tion and Tracking, volume 12 of The InformationRetrieval Series, pages 1?16.Andrei Z Broder.
1997.
On the resemblance and con-tainment of documents.
In Compression and Com-plexity of Sequences 1997., pages 21?29.
IEEE.Nathanael Chambers and Daniel Jurafsky.
2008.
Un-supervised learning of narrative event chains.
In A-CL, pages 789?797.Moses S Charikar.
2002.
Similarity estimation tech-niques from rounding algorithms.
In STOC, pages380?388.Martin Ester, Hans-Peter Kriegel, J?org Sander, and X-iaowei Xu.
1996.
A density-based algorithm fordiscovering clusters in large spatial databases withnoise.
In KDD, volume 96, pages 226?231.Jerome H Friedman.
2001.
Greedy function approxi-mation: a gradient boosting machine.
Annals of s-tatistics, pages 1189?1232.Gabriel Pui Cheong Fung, Jeffrey Xu Yu, Philip S.Yu, and Hongjun Lu.
2005.
Parameter free burstyevents detection in text streams.
In VLDB, pages181?192.J.
A. Hartigan and M. A. Wong.
1979.
A k-meansclustering algorithm.
JSTOR: Applied Statistics,28(1):100?108.Qi He, Kuiyu Chang, and Ee-Peng Lim.
2007.
An-alyzing feature trajectories for event detection.
InSIGIR, pages 207?214.Heng Ji and Ralph Grishman.
2011.
Knowledge basepopulation: Successful approaches and challenges.In ACL, pages 1148?1158.Jon Kleinberg.
2002.
Bursty and hierarchical structurein streams.
In KDD, pages 91?101.Erdal Kuzey and Gerhard Weikum.
2014.
Evin: build-ing a knowledge base of events.
In WWW compan-ion, pages 103?106.Kalev Leetaru and Philip A Schrodt.
2013.
Gdelt:Global data on events, location, and tone, 1979?2012.
In Paper presented at the ISA Annual Con-vention, volume 2, page 4.Jiwei Li and Sujian Li.
2013.
Evolutionary hierarchi-cal dirichlet process for timeline summarization.
InACL, pages 556?560.Christopher D. Manning, Mihai Surdeanu, John Bauer,Jenny Finkel, Steven J. Bethard, and David Mc-Closky.
2014.
The Stanford CoreNLP natural lan-guage processing toolkit.
In ACL, pages 55?60.Brendan O?Connor, Brandon M Stewart, and Noah ASmith.
2013.
Learning to extract international re-lations from political context.
In ACL (1), pages1094?1104.Loc Paulev, Herv Jgou, and Laurent Amsaleg.
2010.Locality sensitive hashing: A comparison of hashfunction types and querying mechanisms.
PatternRecognition Letters, 31(11):1348 ?
1358.Sa?sa Petrovi?c, Miles Osborne, and Victor Lavrenko.2012.
Using paraphrases for improving first sto-ry detection in news and twitter.
In NAACL, pages338?346.Dafna Shahaf and Carlos Guestrin.
2010.
Connectingthe dots between news articles.
In KDD, pages 623?632.Xavier Tannier and V?eronique Moriceau.
2013.
Build-ing event threads out of multiple news articles.
InEMNLP, pages 958?967.Benjamin Van Durme and Ashwin Lall.
2010.
Onlinegeneration of locality sensitive hash signatures.
InACL, pages 231?235.Rui Yan, Liang Kong, Congrui Huang, Xiaojun Wan,Xiaoming Li, and Yan Zhang.
2011.
Timeline gen-eration through evolutionary trans-temporal summa-rization.
In EMNLP, pages 433?443.Yiming Yang, Jaime G Carbonell, Ralf D Brown,Thomas Pierce, Brian T Archibald, and Xin Li-u.
1999.
Learning approaches for detecting andtracking news events.
IEEE Intelligent Systems,14(4):32?43.138
