Proceedings of ACL-IJCNLP 2015 System Demonstrations, pages 73?78,Beijing, China, July 26-31, 2015. c?2015 ACL and AFNLPOMWEdit - The Integrated Open Multilingual Wordnet Editing SystemLu?s Morgado da Costa and Francis BondLinguistics and Mulitingual StudiesNanyang Technological UniversitySingapore{luis.passos.morgado@gmail.com, bond@ieee.org}AbstractWordnets play a central role in many nat-ural language processing tasks.
This pa-per introduces a multilingual editing sys-tem for the Open Multilingual Wordnet(OMW: Bond and Foster, 2013).
Word-net development, like most lexicographictasks, is slow and expensive.
Movingaway from the original Princeton Word-net (Fellbaum, 1998) development work-flow, wordnet creation and expansion hasincreasingly been shifting towards an au-tomated and/or interactive system facili-tated task.
In the particular case of humanedition/expansion of wordnets, a few sys-tems have been developed to aid the lexi-cographers?
work.
Unfortunately, most ofthese tools have either restricted licenses,or have been designed with a particularlanguage in mind.
We present a web-based system that is capable of multilin-gual browsing and editing for any of thehundreds of languages made available bythe OMW.
All tools and guidelines arefreely available under an open license.1 IntroductionLexical semantic resources, such as wordnets(WNs), play a central role in many Natural Lan-guage Processing (NLP) tasks.
Word Sense Dis-ambiguation (WSD), for example, relies heavilyon existing lexical semantic resources.
Likewise,many other unsolved problems of NLP (e.g.
Ma-chine Translation, Q&A Systems) rely on WSDand, consequently, indirectly, rely also on the ex-istence of resources like WNs.This explains why substantial resources havebeen employed in the development of high qualitylexical semantic resources.
The Princeton Word-net (PWN: Fellbaum, 1998) pioneered the devel-opment of such a resource for English.
Followingits steps, many other projects followed PWN intobuilding similar resources for different languages.The lexicographic work-flow for these earlyprojects included hand-typing linked complex datastructures in electronic text files.
The result was ahuge net of concepts, senses and definitions linkedthrough a variety of relations.
This kind of work isultimately very time consuming and prone to mis-takes.
The direct manipulation of text files makesit extremely easy to unintentionally violate the datasyntax.
In recent times, the creation and expansionof these resources has been increasingly shiftinginto an automated and/or interactive system facili-tated task.
Simple and intuitive user interfaces canhelp to both speed-up and to immediately checkfor inconsistencies in the data (e.g.
relatedness tononexistent keys, reduplicated information, typosor omission of minimal required information).
Us-ing modern relational databases and web-servicedinteractive platforms has also allowed for remoteand parallel collaboration, as well as effective jour-naling systems.As the coverage of dictionaries is never com-plete, WNs are in constant development.
Evenshould the main lexicon of a language be de-scribed, as languages evolve, new words andsenses appear, while old senses fade away.
For thisreason, maintaining aWN is a demanding task thatshould be facilitated in every possible way.In this paper we present a web-based system de-signed to exploit the OMWmultilingual structure,allowing a multilingual editing environment (e.g.allow multilingual lexicographers to edit multiplelanguages at the same time), to allow remote par-allel access to the editing environment, requiringminimal to no technical knowledge from the lexi-cographers side to install/run the editing interface,and to facilitate the management overhead of man-taining a WN.1The system has been tested by the developers1http://compling.hss.ntu.edu.sg/omw/73Figure 1: OMW Browsing / Language Selectionand ten annotators (linguistics students) for over 10months, who made feature requests and gave feed-back during the development.
The lexicographicwork was done in parallel with the semantic anno-tation of a portion of the NTUMultilingual Corpus(NTU-MC: Tan and Bond, 2012) in (Mandarin)Chinese, English, Indonesian and Japanese (Bondet al., 2015).The remainder of this paper is arranged as fol-lows.
In Section 2 we discuss related work, in-cluding the OMW and other similar tools avail-able.
The main functionality of our system are de-scribed in Section 3.
Section 4 will summarize andpoint to our current and future work.2 Related Work2.1 The Open Multilingual Wordnet (OMW)The OMW is a combination of open-licencedwordnets, along with data extracted from Wik-tionary and the Unicode Common Locale DataRepository.
In total, OMW has over 2 millionsenses for over 100 thousand concepts, linkingover 1.4 million words in hundreds of languages(Bond and Foster, 2013).
It is used as a sourceof data for projects such as BabelNet (Navigliand Ponzetto, 2012) and Google translate.
OMWuses the basic structure of the Princeton Word-net (PWN: Fellbaum, 1998) to pivot other lan-guages around PWN3.0 synset IDs.
Even thoughit is a single resource, data from each languageand project is available separately, respecting theirindividual licenses.
Figure 1 shows the languageselection menu that allows browsing this resourceas a monolingual or a multilingual resource.
TheOMW is also fully integrated with the tools cur-rently in use for the development of the NTUMultilingual Corpus (Tan and Bond, 2012).
Eventhough the specifics of this integration go beyondthe scope of this paper, it is important to note thatmost of the development that tested this tool wasaccording to the needs of the semantic annotationof the NTU-MC.2.2 Other Available SystemsBuilding and expanding large lexical semantic re-sources is not an easy task.
More importantly,many realized early on that building a WN is nota simple translation task (e.g., Vossen, 1998a).Being able to modify its hierarchy and creatingnew concepts is important when expressing indi-vidual languages semantic hierarchies.
Still, due tothe lack of resources, manyWN projects bootstrapthemselves by translating the PWN.
However, asindividual projects grow, they tend to move awayfrom the inherited English concept hierarchy.
Thisis the moment when systems to support easy ma-nipulation and expansion of their WNs are needed.Among the available systems we can find Vis-Dic (Hor?k et al., 2004) (later developed into DE-BVisDic, Hor?k et al., 2006), used for the devel-opment of BalkaNet (Tufis et al., 2004), plWord-NetApp (succeeded by WordNetLoom (Piaseckiet al., 2013)) used for the construction of the PolishWordnet (Derwojedowa et al., 2008), GernEdiT,the GermaNet editing tool (Henrich and Hinrichs,2010), KUI (Sornlertlamvanich et al., 2008, usedin the Asian Wordnet) and Polaris (Louw, 1998)used in the development of EuroWordnet (Vossen,1998b).Out of the above mentioned, we excluded Po-laris as not being released.
Even though GernEdiTseemed well designed, it was mainly developedfor a monolingual environment and a restrictivelicense (i.e.
it does not allow redistribution orcommercial use).
WordNetLoom, the successorof plWordNetApp, develops an interesting editingmode based directly on the WN hierarchy graph,but the fact that it was not offered as a web-servicelimited our interest.
VisDic was originally devel-74oped in response to Polaris commercial licence,but the direct manipulation of XML limited its use-fulness when compared to the original work-flowof direct manipulation of text files.
DEBVisDicwas later developed on top of VisDic, enhacing itmany ways.
It can be served as a web applica-tion and it supports the development of multiplelink wordnets.
Unfortunately, while experiment-ing with it, we found that its installation and userexperience was not intuitive.
Its development andusability is strongly dependent on Mozilla?s Fire-fox, making any further development less appeal-ing.
And, most importantly, its license also re-stricts use of the tool to noncommercial, nonprofitinternal research purposes only.
KUI was opensource, but only contained functionality for addinglemmas, not making changes to the wordnet struc-ture.
We decided we had enough motivation tostart the development of a new tool.3 System Overview and ArchitectureOMWEdit follows a simple yet powerful web-based architecture.
It is built on an SQLitedatabase, allowing fast querying and reliable stor-age.
It is fully tested for Firefox, Chrome andSafari browsers.
Its main focus is on semi-automation and consistency checking of the WNdevelopment work, supporting the lexicographer?swork.
In this section we discuss the OMWEdit?smain functionality.3.1 Browsing and AuthenticationTheOMWcan be browsed either monolingually ormultilingually.
Figure 1 shows how languages canbe filtered through the navigation interface.
Fil-tering languages is an important feature for bothbrowsing and editing since many concepts havedata for over 100 languages.
This amount of infor-mation can be overwhelming, especially within theedition interface.
The OMW interface also inte-grates an authenticationmenu.
As guests, users arefree to browse through the resource.
Once loggedin (provided they are given access), a user can ac-cess the editing mode.
All changes committed areimmediately available for further browsing, edit-ing and usage by linked tools (i.e.
the OMW is cur-rently linked to a set of corpus annotation tools).3.2 Creating and Editing ConceptsThe lexicographic work centers around editing ex-isting concepts and adding new concepts, sensesor relations to the WN.
For this reason, our systemhas been optimized for these two tasks.Our system integrates the lexical, concept andrelation levels in a single semi-automated process.Most of the above mentioned systems sustain aseparate development between lexical entries andconcepts (e.g.
in order to be linked to a con-cept, a lexical unit has to be previously created asa separate entity).
Contrary to this practice, theOMWEdit has a fully automated lexical manage-ment ?
e.g.
the creation, linking, unlinking, cor-rection and deletion of lexical entries is fully auto-mated behind the concept creation/edition screen.In order to add a lemma to a concept, for example,a lexicographer has simply to type the word formin the appropriate field of creation/editing conceptview.
The system then verifies if a new lexical en-try needs to be created.
In the event that the lexicalentry already exists, its ID is automatically fetchedand bound to the concept.
Otherwise, a new lexicalentry is created and linked to the concept ID.
Like-wise, correcting an existing lexical entry within aconcept will trigger a similar process.
The sys-tem checks if a lexical entry that matches the cor-rected version already exists, or if needs to be cre-ated.
The link between the previously correctedlexical unit is dropped and a new link is created forthe newly corrected form.
Lexical entries that arenot linked to any concept are periodically removedfrom the database.Similar processes are put in practice for themaincomponents of a concept.
We currently allow toedit/add lemmas, definitions, examples and synsetrelations.
The web interface was designed to beintuitive and as automated as possible, in order toshield the lexicographer?s work to include check-ing.
The editing interfaces include quick guide-lines that summarize the workflow of that partic-ular task.
Typos are avoided by either checkinginputs with regular expressions or through the useof closed selection lists (see Figure 2).
The inputsare processed for further consistency before beingwritten in the database (e.g.
white-space and punc-tuation stripping).Fields such as definitions, examples and lem-mas are associated with languages.
Most of ourlexicographers are, at least, bilingual.
Havingthe possibility of creating multilingual concepts isa single submission is, therefore, most efficient.The languages displayed and available when cre-ating/editing a concept are constrained by the se-75Figure 2: Adding a new conceptlected browsing languages, as seen in Figure 1.
Itis especially important to be able to constrain thelanguages in the editing mode, since too much in-formation quickly becomes hard to manage.The creation of a new synset has been optimizedto fall under one of three categories.
Named Enti-ties have a quick creation setting where only min-imal information is required (not shown) ?
as thissystem knows where to place them in the hierar-chy.
The creation of new concepts can also be donefrom scratch (Figure 2), or through the selectionof a linked concept.
In this case, the informationavailable for the linked concept is displayed andsome information is copied across into the creationform for further edition.The tool has a link to a multiple lexiconsearch, where the lexicographers can simultane-ously query multiple lexicons for different lan-guages (e.g.
wiktionary, JMDict for Japanese, CC-edict for Chinese and so on).
This makes it easy tocheck the meanings of words without relying toomuch on a single source.Other consistency checks are enforced by thesystem.
For example, when creating new entries,the minimal information required to constitute aconcept (name, pos, definition in English, link toexisting synset, at least one lemma) is enforced bythe interface, making it impossible to unwittinglycreate an ill-formed entry.3.3 Journaling and Reporting SystemAlthough the wordnets are stored in a relationaldatabase, they can easily be exported as other stan-dard formats such as Wordnet LMF (Vossen et al.,2013) or plain text triples.The WN development is done directly into thisdatabase.
All editable tables are associated withtriggers that record every change committed to thedatabase, along with the authorship and the times-tamp of the event.
By keeping the metadata in aseparate table, we ensure that the wordnet itselfdoes not get unwieldy.
Both manual and scriptedmanipulation of a data is dated and signed.
Indi-vidual lexicographers have to go through an onlinelogin system to be able to see the editing interface.The authorship of scripted manipulation of data isoften the name of the script ?
this allows us tokeep track of what was changed when.
The easeof manipulation of the data by scripts is importantto the development ?
it is easy to develop newdata as a separate project and import it when it isready.This careful database journaling keeps atractable history of all the changes in the OWN.This information allows a better management ofthe lexicographers?
workflow, and also a bettercontrol of the quality of data that is inserted.
Man-agement of the lexicographic work is facilitated bya reporting interface that displays the rate/progressof each contributor?s work (Figure 3).
This in-terface allows the coordinators to adjudicate andrevert any changes they deem fit, to assert thework pace of individual contributors and also tojudge the quality of the lexicographer?s work.
Thisinterface also provides some consistency checksto the quality of the information contained in thesynset, for example lack of senses or definitions,and how often it appears in the corpus.76Figure 3: Reporting Interface (extract of list)4 Summary and Future WorkWe have described the architecture and main func-tionality of the OMWEdit.
Considering its shortdevelopment history, our system has proved itselfan increasingly stable and useful tool for the ex-pansion of a few major Wordnet projects.
Ourweb-based system architecture has proved itselfideal for a medium to large scale lexicographicteam, regardless of the location of each member.During the development of this system, we wereable to confirm an increase in the speed of the lex-icographer?s workflow.
The managing overhead,such as maintaining consistency and quality of theintroduced changes has also become a much easiertask to accomplish.Nevertheless, we are aware that the nature ofthis kind of system is always open ended, and wehope to keep supporting and developing it further.We are aware of some shortcomings and have a listof ongoing planned development of future imple-mentation.
This list includes (but is not restrictedto):?
the ability to change and/or add lexical rela-tions and verb frames?
the ability to easily comment on entries andwatch entries for changes?
the ability to express all relations (both lexicaland between concepts) by language?
allow-ing to move away from only using the hierar-chy given by the PWN?
the ability to seed a new concept by copying asimilar concept (with all its internal structureand relations)?
the ability to do a live check for similarityscores in definitions, accounting for probablematching/mergeable concepts?
further development of the reporting interface?
the development of a graphic component tohelp visualizing the best placement of a newconcept in the hierarchy?
Also, considering our multilingual context, tofurther develop our support for multilingualusers by translating the user interface.Even though our system was developed with thegoal of expanding and correcting wordnets, we be-lieve that our system can also be used to help cre-ate new wordnets that use the PWN hierarchy astheir backbone.
Though the hierarchical relationsare still currently imposed by the PWN, we haveabolished the limitation to a fixed concept inven-tory by allowing the creation of new concepts.Although the tool is far from perfect, we encour-age existing and new projects to use the OMWand OMWEdit as a platform to for their WN de-velopment.
Furthermore, we intend to feedbackthe changes committed to the individual word-net projects: the Princeton Wordnet (Fellbaum,1998), the Japanese Wordnet (Isahara et al., 2008),the Wordnet Bahasa (Nurril Hirfana et al.
2011)and the Chinese Open Wordnet (Wang and Bond,2013), respectively, so that changes committed tothe OMW can be incorporated to the original WNprojects.AcknowledgmentsThis research was supported in part by the MOETier 2 grant That?s what you meant: a Rich Rep-resentation for Manipulation of Meaning (MOEARC41/13) and Fuji-Xerox Co. Ltd (Joint Re-search on Multilingual Semantic Analysis).
Wewould also like to thank our lexicographers fortheir feedback during the system?s development.ReferencesFrancis Bond, Lu?s Morgado da Costa, andTu?n Anh L?.
2015.
IMI ?
a multilingual se-mantic annotation environment.
In ACL-2015System Demonstrations.
(this volume).77Francis Bond and Ryan Foster.
2013.
Linkingand extending an open multilingual wordnet.In 51st Annual Meeting of the Association forComputational Linguistics: ACL-2013, pages1352?1362.
Sofia.
URL http://aclweb.org/anthology/P13-1133.Magdalena Derwojedowa, Maciej Piasecki,Stanis?aw Szpakowicz, Magdalena Zaw-is?awska, and Bartosz Broda.
2008.
Words,concepts and relations in the construction ofpolish wordnet.
In Proceedings of the GlobalWordNet Conference, Seged, Hungary, pages162?177.Christine Fellbaum, editor.
1998.
WordNet: AnElectronic Lexical Database.
MIT Press.Verena Henrich and Erhard W Hinrichs.
2010.Gernedit-the germanet editing tool.
InACL (Sys-tem Demonstrations), pages 19?24.Ale?
Hor?k, Karel Pala, Adam Rambousek, Mar-tin Povoln?, et al.
2006.
Debvisdic?first versionof new client-server wordnet browsing and edit-ing tool.
In Proceedings of the Third Interna-tional Wordnet Conference (GWC-06), Jeju Is-land, Korea.Ale?
Hor?k, Pavel Smr?, et al.
2004.
Visdic?wordnet browsing and editing tool.
In Pro-ceedings of the Second International WordNetConference?GWC, pages 136?141.Hitoshi Isahara, Francis Bond, Kiyotaka Uchi-moto, Masao Utiyama, and Kyoko Kanzaki.2008.
Development of the Japanese WordNet.In Sixth International conference on LanguageResources and Evaluation (LREC 2008).
Mar-rakech.Michael Louw.
1998.
Polaris user?s guide.
Eu-roWordNet (LE-4003), Deliverable D023D024.Nurril Hirfana Mohamed Noor, Suerya Sapuan,and Francis Bond.
2011.
Creating the openWordnet Bahasa.
In Proceedings of the 25th Pa-cific Asia Conference on Language, Informationand Computation (PACLIC 25), pages 258?267.Singapore.RobertoNavigli and Simone Paolo Ponzetto.
2012.BabelNet: The automatic construction, evalu-ation and application of a wide-coverage mul-tilingual semantic network.
Artificial Intelli-gence, 193:217?250.Maciej Piasecki, Micha?
Marci?czuk, Rados?awRamocki, and Marek Maziarz.
2013.
Word-netloom: a wordnet development system in-tegrating form-based and graph-based perspec-tives.
International Journal of Data Mining,Modelling and Management, 5(3):210?232.Virach Sornlertlamvanich, Thatsanee Charoen-porn, Kergrit Robkop, and Hitoshi Isahara.2008.
KUI: Self-organizing multi-lingual word-net construction tool.
In Attila Tan?cs, D?raCsendes, Veronika Vincze, Christiane Fellbaum,and Piek Vossen, editors, 4th Global Word-net Conference: GWC-2008, pages 417?427.Szeged, Hungary.Liling Tan and Francis Bond.
2012.
Building andannotating the linguistically diverse NTU-MC(NTU-multilingual corpus).
International Jour-nal of Asian Language Processing, 22(4):161?174.Dan Tufis, Dan Cristea, and Sofia Stamou.
2004.Balkanet: Aims, methods, results and perspec-tives.
a general overview.
Romanian Journal ofInformation science and technology, 7(1-2):9?43.Piek Vossen, editor.
1998a.
Euro WordNet.Kluwer.Piek Vossen.
1998b.
A multilingual database withlexical semantic networks.
Springer.Piek Vossen, Claudia Soria, and Monica Mona-chini.
2013.
LMF - lexical markup frame-work.
In Gil Francopoulo, editor, LMF - LexicalMarkup Framework, chapter 4.
ISTE Ltd + JohnWiley & sons, Inc.Shan Wang and Francis Bond.
2013.
Building theChinese Open Wordnet (COW): Starting fromcore synsets.
In Proceedings of the 11th Work-shop on Asian Language Resources, a Workshopat IJCNLP-2013, pages 10?18.
Nagoya.78
