Proceedings of the 53rd Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguisticsand the 7th International Joint Conference on Natural Language Processing, pages 1650?1659,Beijing, China, July 26-31, 2015.c?2015 Association for Computational LinguisticsLinguistic Harbingers of Betrayal:A Case Study on an Online Strategy GameVlad Niculae,1Srijan Kumar,2Jordan Boyd-Graber,3Cristian Danescu-Niculescu-Mizil11Cornell University,2University of Maryland,3University of Coloradovlad@cs.cornell.edu, srijan@cs.umd.edu,Jordan.Boyd.Graber@colorado.edu, cristian@cs.cornell.eduAbstractInterpersonal relations are fickle, withclose friendships often dissolving into en-mity.
In this work, we explore linguis-tic cues that presage such transitions bystudying dyadic interactions in an on-line strategy game where players form al-liances and break those alliances throughbetrayal.
We characterize friendships thatare unlikely to last and examine temporalpatterns that foretell betrayal.We reveal that subtle signs of imminentbetrayal are encoded in the conversationalpatterns of the dyad, even if the victimis not aware of the relationship?s fate.In particular, we find that lasting friend-ships exhibit a form of balance that man-ifests itself through language.
In contrast,sudden changes in the balance of certainconversational attributes?such as positivesentiment, politeness, or focus on futureplanning?signal impending betrayal.1 IntroductionA major focus in computational social science hasbeen the study of interpersonal relations throughdata.
However, social interactions are compli-cated, and we rarely have access all of the data thatdefine the relationship between friends or enemies.As an alternative, thought experiments like theprisoner?s dilemma (Axelrod and Dion, 1988) areused to explain behavior.
Two prisoners?deniedcommunication?must decide whether to cooper-ate with each other or defect.
Such simple andelegant tools initially helped understand many realworld scenarios from pricing products (Rosenthal,1981) to athletes doping (Buechel et al, 2013).Despite its power, the prisoner?s dilemma remainswoefully unrealistic.
Cooperation and betrayal donot happen in a cell cut off from the rest of theworld.
Instead, real interactions are mediated bycommunication: promises are made, then broken,and met with recriminations.To study the complex social phenomenon of be-trayal, we turn to data and observe the players ofDiplomacy (Sharp, 1978), a war-themed strategygame where friendships and betrayals are orches-trated primarily through language.
Diplomacy,like the prisoner?s dilemma, is a repeated gamewhere players choose to either cooperate or betrayother players.
Diplomacy is so engaging that itis played around the world, not only casually as aboard game but also over the Internet and in formalsettings such as world championships.1Playersconverse throughout the game and victory hingeson enlisting others?
support through persuasive-ness and cunning duplicity.
To illustrate the socialrelations that carry out throughout the game, con-sider the following exchange between two Diplo-macy allies:Germany: Can I suggest you move your armieseast and then I will support you?
Then next yearyou move [there] and dismantle Turkey.
I willdeal with England and France, you take out Italy.Austria: Sounds like a perfect plan!
Happy tofollow through.
And?thank you Bruder!Austria is very polite and positive in its reply,and appreciates Germany?s support and generos-ity.
They have been good allies for the better partof the game.
However, immediately after this ex-change, Austria suddenly invades German terri-tory.
The intention to do so was so well concealedthat Germany did not see the betrayal coming; oth-erwise it would have taken advantage first.
Indeed,if we follow their conversation after the attack, wefind Germany surprised:Germany: Not really sure what to say, except thatI regret you did what you did.1A recent episode of This American Life describes theDiplomacy game in a competitive offline setting: http://www.thisamericanlife.org/radio-archives/episode/531/got-your-back?act=11650Such scenarios suggest an important researchchallenge: is the forthcoming betrayal signaledby linguistic cues appearing in the (ostensiblyfriendly) conversation between the betrayer andthe eventual victim?
A positive answer would sug-gest not only that the betrayer unknowingly re-veals their future treachery, but also that the even-tual victim fails to notice these signals.
Captur-ing these signals computationally would thereforemean outperforming the human players.In this work, we provide a framework for ana-lyzing a dyad?s evolving communication patternsand provide evidence of subtle but consistent con-versational patterns that foretell the unilateral dis-solution of a friendship.
In particular, imminentbetrayal is signaled by sudden changes in the bal-ance of conversational attributes such as positivesentiment, politeness, and structured discourse.Furthermore, we show that by exploiting thesecues in a prediction setting we can anticipate im-minent betrayal better than the human players.After briefly describing the game (Section 2),we focus on how the structure of the game pro-vides convenient, reliable indicators of whetherpairs of participants are friends or foes (Section 3).Given these labels, we explore linguistic featuresthat are predictive of whether friendships will endin betrayal (Section 4) and, if so, when the betrayalwill happen (Section 5).While our focus is on a single popular game,we choose methods that generalize to other do-mains, revealing dynamics present in other socialinteractions (Section 6).
We discuss how automat-ically predicting stable relationships and betrayalcan more broadly help advance the study of trustand relationships using computational linguistics.2 Communication and Conflict inDiplomacyA game of Diplomacy begins in 1901 with play-ers casting themselves as the European powers atthe eve of the first world war: England, Germany,France, Russia, Austria, Italy, and the OttomanEmpire.
The goal of the game (like other wargames such as Risk or Axis & Allies) is to cap-ture all of the territories on the game board (Fig-ure 1).
The games are divided into years start-ing from 1901 and each year is divided into twoseasons?Spring and Fall.
Each season consistsof two alternating phases: diplomacy?the playerscommunicate to form strategies?and orders?theFigure 1: The full Diplomacy board representing Europecirca 1914.
The seven nations struggle to control the map.players submit their moves for the season.
Seasonsare therefore the main unit of game time.2.1 Movement, Orders, and BattlesOn the board, each player can operate a unit foreach city they control.
During each turn, thesepieces have the option of moving to an adjacentterritory.
What makes Diplomacy unique is thatall players submit their written (or electronic) or-ders; these orders are executed simultaneously;and there is no randomness (e.g., dice).
Thus, theoutcome of the game depends only on the commu-nication, cooperation, and movements of players.When two units end their turn in the same terri-tory, it implies a battle.
Who wins the battle is de-cided purely based on numerical superiority (tiesgo to defenders).
Instead of moving, a unit cansupport another unit; large armies can be createdthrough intricate networks of support.
The sidewith the largest army wins the battle.The process of supporting a unit is thus criticalfor both a successful offensive move and a suc-cessful defense.
Often, a lone player lacks theunits to provide enough support to his attacks andthus needs the help of others.2Because these or-ders (both movement and support) are machinereadable, we have a clear indication of when play-ers are working together (supporting each other) orworking against each other (attacking each other);we will use this to define relationships between2While support can come from a player?s own units, alliesoften combine resources.
For example, if an English armyin Belgium is attacking a Germany Army in Ruhr, a Frencharmy in Burgundy could strengthen that attack.
This is ac-complished by the French player submitting a move explicitlystating ?I support England?s attack from Belgium to Ruhr?.1651players (Section 3).
However, coordinating theseactions between players requires cooperation anddiplomacy.2.2 CommunicationIn the diplomacy phase of the game, players talk toeach other.
These conversations are either publicor?more typically?one-on-one.
Conversationsinclude greetings, extra-game discussions (e.g.,?did you see Game of Thrones??
), low-level tac-tics (?if you attack Armenia, I?ll support you?
),and high-level strategy (?we need to control Cen-tral Europe?).
The content of these messagesforms the object of our study.Because of the centrality of language to Diplo-macy, we can learn the rhetorical and social de-vices players use to build and break trust.
Becausethis language is embedded in every game, it hasconvenient properties: similar situations are re-peated, the goals are clear, and machine-readableorders confirm which players are enemies andwhich are friends.
In the next section, we explorethe Diplomacy data.2.3 PreprocessingWe use games from two popular online platformsfor playing Diplomacy.3The average season of anonline Diplomacy game lasts nine days.
We re-move non-standard games caused by differencesbetween the two platforms, as well as games thatare still in progress.
Moreover, in each game, wefilter out setup messages, regulatory messages toand from the administrator of the game and mes-sages declaring the state of the game, keeping onlymessages between the players.
This leaves 249games with 145.000 total messages.The dataset confirms that communication is anessential part of Diplomacy: half of the gameshave over 515 messages exchanged between theplayers, while the top quartile has over 750 mes-sages per game.
Also, non-trivial messages (withat least one sentence) tend to be complex: overhalf of them have at least five sentences, and thetop quartile consists of messages with eight ormore sentences.3 Relationships and Their StabilityIn this section, we explore how interactions withinthe game of Diplomacy define the relationships3Anonymized transcripts and more information availableat http://vene.ro/betrayal/Event Time What happenedF14 B supports V?s army in ViennaF23 V supports B?s attack from Warsaw to SilesiaF33 B again supports V in ViennaF41 V supports B?s move from Venice to TyroliaH50 B attacks V in ViennaH6-1 V retaliates, attacking B in Warsaw4 3 2 1                  0 (betrayal)Game seasonBetrayerVictimF1 F3F2 F4H5H6Figure 2: A friendship between Player B (eventual betrayer)and Player V (eventual victim) unravels.
For the first fourevents, the players exchange Friendly acts (in green).
Even-tually B?s unilateral hostile act betrays V?s trust, leading tohostility (in red).
The dissolution takes place at the time ofthe first hostile act (t = 0) and we index game seasons goingback from the betrayal, such that lower indices mean betrayalis nearer.between players.
While such dyadic relationshipscan be undefined (e.g., England and Turkey are inopposite corners of the map), specific interactionsbetween players indicate whether they are friendlyor hostile to each other.Friendships and hostilities.
Alliances are a natu-ral part of the game of Diplomacy.
While the bestoutcome for a player is a solo victory against allother players, this is rare and difficult to achievewithout any cooperation and assistance.
Instead,the game?s structure encourages players to formlong-term alliances.
Allies often settle for (lessprestigious) team victories, but these coalitionscan also crumble as players seek a (more presti-gious) solo victory for themselves.
This game dy-namic naturally leads to the formation of friendlyand hostile dyads, which are relatively easy toidentify through post-hoc analysis of the game, asexplained next.Acts of friendship.
Diplomacy provides a supportoption for players to help each other: this gamemechanism (discussed in Section 2) provides un-equivocal evidence of friendship.
When two play-ers engage in a series of such friendly acts, we willsay that the two are in a relation of friendship.Acts of hostility.
Unlike support, hostile actionsare not explicitly marked in Diplomacy.
We con-sider two players to be hostile if they get involvedin any unambiguous belligerent action, such as in-vading one another?s territory, or if one supportsan enemy of the other.44In Diplomacy all game actions are simultaneous, andthis can lead to ambiguous interpretation of the nature of a1652Betrayal.
As in real life, friendships can bebroken unilaterally: an individual can betray hisfriend by engaging in a hostile act towards her.Figure 2 shows two players who started out asfriends (green) but became hostile (red) after a be-trayal.
Importantly, until the last act of friendship(game season t = 1), the victim is unaware thatshe will be betrayed (otherwise she would not haveengaged in an act of friendship) and the betrayerhas no interest in signaling his planned duplicityto his partner.This setting poses the following research chal-lenge: are there linguistic cues that appear duringthe friendly conversations and portend the upcom-ing betrayal?
A positive answer would have twoimplications: the betrayer unknowingly hints athis future treachery, and the victim could have no-ticed it, but did not.
We will explore this questionin the following sections.Relationship stability.
Before venturing into thelinguistic analysis of betrayals, we briefly ex-plore the dynamics underlying these state transi-tions.
We find that, as in real life, friendshipsare much more likely to collapse into hostilitiesthan the reverse: in Diplomacy, the probabilityof a friendship to dissolve into enmity is aboutfive times greater than that of hostile players be-coming friends.
The history of the relationshipalso matters.
A friendship built on the founda-tion of many cooperative acts is more likely to en-dure than friendship with a short history, and long-lasting conflict is less likely to become a friend-ship.
In numbers, the probability that a two seasonlong friendship ends is 35%, while for pairs whohave helped each other for ten or more seasons, theprobability of betrayal is only 23%.
Similarly, theprobability that a two season long conflict resolvesis 7%, while players at war for over ten seasonshave only a 5% chance to make up.
These num-bers aren?t particularly shocking?the idea that thepassage of time has an effect on the strength of arelationship is intuitive.
For the purposes of thisstudy, we control for such effects in order to cap-ture purely linguistic hints of betrayal.Starting from the relationship definitions dis-cussed in this section, in what follows we showhow subtle linguistic patterns of in-game playerpair?s interactions.
Our definition of hostility intentionallydiscards such ambiguous evidence.
For instance, if two play-ers attempt to move into the same unoccupied territory, thisis not necessarily aggressive: allies sometimes use this tactic(?bouncing?)
to ensure that a territory remains unoccupied.conversations can reveal whether or not a friend-ship will turn hostile or not.4 Language Foretelling BetrayalIn this section, we examine whether the conver-sations between two Diplomacy allies contain lin-guistic cues foretelling if their friendship will lastor end in betrayal.
We expect these cues to be sub-tle, since we only consider messages exchangedwhen the two individuals are being ostensiblyfriendly; when at least one of them?the eventualvictim?is unaware of the relationship?s fate.4.1 What Constitutes a BetrayalTo find betrayals, we must first find friendships.Building on the discussion from Section 3, weconsider a friendship to be stable if it is ongo-ing, established, and reciprocal.
Thus, we focuson relationships that contain at least two consecu-tive and reciprocated acts of friendships that spanat last at least three seasons in game time.
We alsocheck that no more than five seasons pass betweentwo acts of friendships, as friendships can fade.Betrayals are established and reciprocal friend-ships that end with at least two hostile acts.
Theperson initiating the first of these hostile acts isthe betrayer, while the other person is the victim.5For each betrayal instance, we find the mostsimilar stable friendship that was never dissolvedby betrayal.
Using a greedy heuristic, we se-lect friendships that match the betrayals on twostatistics: the length of the friendship and num-ber of seasons since the start of the game.
Af-ter this matching process, we find no significantdifference in either of the two variables (Mann-Whitney p > 0.3).
Matching betrayals with last-ing friendships in this fashion removes historicaland relationship-type effects such as those dis-cussed in Section 3, and focuses the comparisonon the variable of interest: whether a given stablefriendship will end in a betrayal or not.4.2 Linguistic Harbingers of BetrayalNow we switch to exploring linguistic featuresthat correlate with future betrayal in the controlledsetting described above.
We start from the intu-ition that a stable relationship should be balanced(Jung et al, 2012): friends will help each other5In rare cases, the betrayal can be mutual (i.e., both play-ers start attacking each other in the same season).
In suchcases, we consider both betrayals.1653imbalance-4%-2%0%+2%+4%(potential)betrayer (potential)victim0%5%10%15%20%(a) Positive sentiment(percentage of sentences)imbalance0.040.020.000.020.04(potential)betrayer (potential)victim0.000.020.040.060.080.100.12(b) Planning discourse markers(avg.
number per sentence)imbalance0.040.020.000.020.04(potential)betrayer (potential)victim0.600.620.640.660.680.700.720.74 no betrayalbetrayal(c) Politeness(avg.
message score)Figure 3: Friendships that will end in betrayal are imbalanced.
The eventual betrayer is more positive, more polite, but plansless than the victim.
The white bars correspond to matched lasting friendships, where the roles of potential betrayer and victimare arbitrarily assigned; in these cases, the imbalances disappear.
Error bars mark bootstrapped standard errors (Efron, 1979).while enemies will fight each other.
A precariousfriendship might feel one-sided, while a conflictmay turn to friendship through a magnanimousolive branch.
Therefore, we focus our attention onlinguistic features that have the potential to signalan imbalance in the communication patterns of thedyad.To ensure that we are studying conversationalpatterns that occur only when the two individualsin the dyad are ostensibly being friends, we onlyextract features from the messages exchanged be-fore the last act of friendship, that is, before theseason labeled 1 in Figure 2.
Considering the na-ture of this setting, we can only hope for subtlelinguistic cues: if there were salient linguistic sig-nals, then the victim would notice and preempt thebetrayal.
Instead, they are taken by surprise; thefollowing is a typical reaction of a player after hav-ing been betrayed by a friend:Well that move was sour.
I?m guessing Franceput you up to it, citing my large growth.
This wasa pity, as I was willing to give you the lion?s shareof centers in the west.
[...] If you voiced yourconcerns I would have supported you in most ofthe western centers.
Unfortunately now you havejumped out of the pan into the fire.Sentiment.
Changes in the sentiment expressed inconversation can reflect emotional responses, so-cial affect, as well as the status of the relationshipas a whole (Gottman and Levenson, 2000; Wangand Cardie, 2014).
We quantify the proportion ofexchanged sentences that transmit positive, neutraland negative sentiment using the Stanford Senti-ment Analyzer (Socher et al, 2013).6Examplesentences with these features, as well as all otherfeatures we consider, can be found in Table 1.6We collapse the few examples classified as extreme posi-tive and extreme negative examples into positive and negative,respectively.We find that an imbalance in the amount of pos-itive sentiment expressed by the two individuals isa subtle sign that the relation will end in betrayal(Figure 3a, left; one-sample t-test on the imbal-ance, p = 0.008).
When looking closer at who isthe source of this imbalance (Figure 3a, right), wefind that that it is the eventual betrayer that usessignificantly more positive sentiment than the con-trol counterpart in the matched friendship (two-sample t-test, p = 0.001).
This is somewhat sur-prising, and we speculate that this is the betrayerovercompensating for his forthcoming actions.Argumentation and Discourse.
Structured dis-course and well-made arguments are essential inpersuasion (Cialdini, 2000; Anand et al, 2011).To capture discourse complexity, we measure theaverage number of explicit discourse connectorsper sentence (Prasad et al, 2008).7These markersbelong to four coarse classes: comparison, contin-gency, expansive, and temporal.
To capture plan-ning, we group temporal markers that refer to thefuture (e.g.,?next?, ?thereafter?)
in a separate cat-egory.
To quantify the level of argumentation, wecalculate average number of claim and premisemarkers per sentence, as identified by Stab andGurevych (2014).
We also measure the number ofrequest sentences in each message, as identified bythe heuristics in the Stanford Politeness classifier(Danescu-Niculescu-Mizil et al, 2013).The structure of the discourse offers clues towhether the friendship will last.
For example, Fig-ure 3b shows that in friendships doomed to end inbetrayal, the victim uses planning discourse mark-ers significantly more often than the betrayer (one-sample t-test on the imbalance, p = 0.03), who is7We remove the connectors that appear in over 20% of themessages (and, for, but, if, as, or, and so).1654Feature Example sentence from the dataPositive sentiment I will still be thrilled if it turns out you win this war.Negative sentiment It?s not a great outcome, but still an OK one.Neutral sentiment Do you concur with my assumption?Claim But I believe that E/F have discarded him and so I think he might bite.Premise I put Italy out because I wanted to work with you.Comparison We can trade centers as much as we like after that.Contingency He did not, thus we are indeed in fine shape to continue as planned.Expansion Would you rather see WAR-UKR, or GAL-UKR?Temporal I think he can still be effective to help me take TUN while you take ROM.Planning HOL should fall next year, and then MUN and KIE shortly thereafter.Number of requestsPoliteness I wonder if you shouldn?t try to support Italy into MAR ... What do you think?Subjectivity I?m just curious what you think.TalkativenessTable 1: Summary of the linguistic cues we consider.likely to be aware that the cooperation has no fu-ture.
(More argumentation and discourse featureswill be discussed in the following sections.)Politeness.
Pragmatic information can also be in-formative of the relation between two individu-als; for example Danescu-Niculescu-Mizil et al(2013) show that differences in levels of polite-ness can echo differences in status and power.
Wemeasure the politeness of each message using theStanford Politeness classifier and find that friend-ships that end in betrayal show a slight imbalancebetween the level of politeness used by the twoindividuals (one-sample t-test on the imbalance,p = 0.09) and that in those cases the future vic-tim is the one that is less polite.Subjectivity.
We explored phrases expressingopinion, accusation, suspicion, and speculationtaken from an automatically collected lexicon(Riloff and Wiebe, 2003), but did not find sig-nificant differences between betrayals and controlfriendships.Talkativeness.
Another conversational aspect isthe amount of communication flowing between theplayers, in each direction.
To quantify this, wesimply use the number of messages sent, the av-erage number of sentences per message, and theaverage number of words per sentence.
Abnor-mal communication patterns can indicate a rela-tionship breakdown.
For example, friendships thatdissolve are characterized by an imbalance in thenumber of messages exchanged between the twoplayers (one-sample t-test, p < 0.001).These results show that there are indeed subtlelinguistic imbalance signals that are indicative ofan forthcoming betrayal, even in a setting in whichthe victim is not aware of the impending betrayal.4.3 Predictive PowerTo test whether these linguistic cues have any pre-dictive power and to explore how they interact, weturn to a binary classification setting in which wetry to detect whether a player V will be betrayedby a player B.
(We will call player V the poten-tial victim and player B the potential betrayer.
)Expert humans?the actual victims?performedpoorly on this task and were not able to tell thatthey will be betrayed: by virtue of how the datasetis constructed, the performance of the human play-ers is at chance level.We use the same balanced dataset of matchedbetrayals and lasting friendships as before andconsider as classification instances all the seasonscoming from each of the two classes (663 betrayalseasons and 712 from lasting friendships).
As fea-tures, we use the cues described above and sum-marized in Table 1, differentiated by source: Vor B.
We use logistic regression after univariatefeature selection.
The best setting for the modelparameters8is selected via 5-fold cross valida-tion, ensuring that instances from the same gameare never found in both train and validation folds.The resulting model achieves a cross-validationaccuracy of 57% and a Matthews correlation co-efficient of 0.14, significantly above chance (52%accuracy and 0 Matthews correlation coefficient),with 95% bootstrapped confidence.
This indicates8We optimize the number of features selected, the scor-ing function used (ANOVA or ?2), whether to automaticallyreweigh the classes, the regularizer (`1or `2), and the valueof the regularization parameter C between 10?12and 1012.1655From Positive feature From Negative featureB Positive sentiment B ExpansionB Sentences B ComparisonB ContingencyB No.
WordsB PlanningB Negative sentimentTable 2: Selected features for recognizing upcoming be-trayal, in decreasing order of the absolute value of their co-efficients.
The From column indicates whether the messagecontaining the feature was sent by the potential Betrayer orthe potential Victim.
(In this case, only betrayer features wereselected.)
Positive features indicate that a friendship is morelikely to end in betrayal.that, unlike the actual players, the classifier is ableto exploit subtle linguistic signals that surface inthe conversation.9The selected features and their coefficients arereported in Table 2.
On top of the observationswe previously made, the feature ranking revealsthat writing more sentences per message is morecommon when one will betray.
Discourse featuresalso prove relevant: more complex discourse in-dicates a lower likelihood of the player betraying(e.g., Figure 3b).Overall, the selected linguistic features capturea consistent signal that characterizes people?s lan-guage when they are about to betray: they tend toplan less than their victims, use less structure intheir communication, and are overly positive.5 Sudden yet Inevitable BetrayalThe results from Section 4 suggest that languagecues can be subtle signs of future relationship dis-ruption.
Even though people are aware that mostrelationships eventually end, one would still preferto reap their benefits as long as possible.
In Diplo-macy, despite the common knowledge that every-one prefers to win alone, players still take chanceson long-lasting alliances.
This leads to an alter-nate research question: assuming that a relation-ship will be disrupted, how soon can one expectto be betrayed?
This is still just as challenging forthe expert human players, as they were not able toanticipate and thereby avoid betrayal.Next we investigate if the variation of thelinguistic cues over time can predict imminentchange in the relationship.
We consider only the9Since our focus is on understanding linguistic aspectsof betrayal, rather than on achieving the best possible per-formance on this particular Diplomacy task, we do not usegame-specific information, such as the players?
position onthe map, or any information not accessible to both players.subset of betrayals used in Section 4, and labeleach individual game season with its distance fromthe end of the friendship (as in Figure 2).
We pre-vent short alliances of circumstance from distort-ing the features close to betrayal by keeping onlyfriendships lasting at least four seasons.We consider the same cues described in Ta-ble 1, and train a classifier to discriminate betweenthe season preceding the last friendly interactionand all the older seasons.
This learning task isimbalanced, with only 14% of the seasons beingimmediately before the betrayal.
Thus, we op-timize F1score and also measure the Matthewscorrelation coefficient, which takes a value of 0for uninformative predictions (random or major-ity).
The best model achieves an F1score of 0.31and a Matthews correlation coefficient of 0.17,significantly better than chance with 95% boot-strapped confidence.
This shows that we can cap-ture signs of imminent betrayal, something thateven the skilled human players have failed to do.Furthermore, 39% of the predicted false positivesare within two seasons of the last friendly act.
Thissuggests that sometimes the warning signs can ap-pear slightly earlier.The selected features, displayed in Table 3, re-flect some of the effects identified in Section 4,such as the importance of positive sentiment andplanning discourse markers.
Betrayers have a ten-dency to use more positive sentiment during thelast moment of purported friendliness (Figure 4a).Also, expressing more opinions through claims isa sign that one will not betray right away.
Three ofthe discourse features (comparison, contingencyand expansion) are selected as imbalance features(they have near-opposite coefficients for the be-trayer and for the victim), indicating that as be-trayal approaches, victims are less eloquent thanbetrayers.
Interestingly, some predictive signalscome only from the victim: a partner using in-creasingly more planning words is at higher riskof being betrayed (Figure 4b).
This could be ex-plained by the pressure that making plans for thefuture can put on a relationship.
A similar reason-ing applies for making many requests.We also find that a decrease in a partner?s polite-ness presages their imminent betrayal.
The changein politeness over time (Figure 4c) reveals a rever-sal in the politeness imbalance of the pair.
Thisexplains why politeness is not a good enough fea-ture in detecting long-term betrayal.
The behav-16564 and up 3 2 1 betrayalSeasons leading up to betrayal-10%-5%0%+5%+10% imbalance5%15%25%betrayervictim(a) Positive sentiment(percentage of sentences)4 and up 3 2 1 betrayalSeasons leading up to betrayal0.100.050.000.050.100.050.100.15(b) Planning discourse markers(avg.
number per sentence)4 and up 3 2 1 betrayalSeasons leading up to betrayal0.100.050.000.050.100.600.650.70(c) Politeness(avg.
message score)Figure 4: Changes in balance can mark imminent betrayal.
As the breakdown approaches, the betrayer becomes more positivebut less polite, and the victim tends to make more requests and become more polite.
Error bars mark bootstrapped standarderrors (Efron, 1979).From Positive feature From Negative featureV Comparison B ClaimsV Positive sentiment B PolitenessV Contingency B ContingencyV Planning B SubjectivityV Requests B ExpansionV Expansion B No.
SentencesB ComparisonTable 3: Selected features for recognizing imminent be-trayal, in decreasing order of the absolute value of their co-efficients.
The From column indicates whether the messagecontaining the feature comes from the potential Betrayer orthe potential Victim.
Positive features indicate that an ex-change is more likely to be followed by immediate betrayal.ior could have two intuitive explanations.
On onehand, if the betrayer has planned the act in ad-vance, politeness can be a strategy for deception.On the other hand, if the betrayer receives impo-lite requests, the value of the relationship can de-crease, hastening a betrayal.
We observe a simi-lar dynamic for the average number of sentencesper message sent by the betrayer; the feature isselected in both prediction tasks, but with oppo-site signs: more complex messages suggest thatbetrayal will happen, but not right away.Studying language change as betrayal drawsnearer uncovers effects that cannot be seen whenlooking at an entire friendship on average.
Forexample, while excessively positive and politepartners are potential betrayers, people who havethemselves suddenly become more polite arelikely to become victims soon.6 Relevance Beyond the GameWhile discovering betrayal in one online gameis a fun and novel task, our work connects withbroader research in computational social science.In this section we describe how our work tacklesissues that previous research on alliances, negoti-ation, and relationships have faced.Cooperation and relationship building are an es-sential part of many activities: completing a groupproject, opening a business, or forging a new rela-tionship.
Each of these has been the subject of ex-tensive research to understand what makes for ef-fective relationships.
Jung et al (2012) show thata balanced working relationship is more likely tolead to better performance on tasks like pair pro-gramming.
Imai and Gelfand (2010) show thatunderstanding cultural norms improves negotia-tions.
While these data are elicited in the lab, our?found?
data are inexpensive because Diplomacygames are fun and inherently anonymized.Romance is a popular and more real-world phe-nomenon that helps us understand how relation-ships form and dissolve.
The research that tellsus how language shapes early dating (Ranganathet al, 2009) and whether an existing relationshipwill continue (Slatcher and Pennebaker, 2006;Gottman and Levenson, 2000; Ireland et al, 2011)is formed from an incomplete sample of a courseof a relationship.
In contrast, a game of Diplomacyis shorter than almost any marriage and we havea complete account of all interactions throughoutthe entire relationship.
Furthermore, this work fo-cuses on the unilateral and asymmetric act of be-trayal, rather than on the question of whether a re-lation will last.Playing Diplomacy online is less tangible than aromantic relationship, but understanding trust anddeception in online interactions (Riegelsberger et1657al., 2003; Newman et al, 2003; Hancock et al,2007; Ott et al, 2011; Feng et al, 2012) is partic-ularly important because the Internet marketplaceis a growing driver of economic growth (Boyd,2003).
Diplomacy offers a setting in which decep-tion occurs spontaneously in the context of com-plex relationships.7 ConclusionsDespite people?s best effort to hide it, the inten-tion to betray can leak through the language oneuses.
Detecting it is not a task that we expect tobe solvable with high accuracy, as that would en-tail a reliable ?recipe?
for avoiding betrayal in re-lationships; in this unrealistic scenario, betrayalswould be unlikely to exist.
While the effects wefind are subtle, they bring new insights into the re-lation between linguistic balance and stability inrelationships.Although we use one game to develop ourmethodology, the framework developed here canbe extended to be applied to a wide range of socialinteraction.
Social dynamics in collaborative set-tings can bear striking similarities to those presentin war games.
For example, in Wikipedia ?editwars?
?where attacks correspond to edit reverts?are common on issues relating to politics, religion,history and nationality, among others (Kittur et al,2007).
As in Diplomacy, Wikipedia editors formalliances, argue and negotiate about possible com-promises.
A challenge for future work is to find re-liable linguistic cues that generalize well betweensuch settings.AcknowledgementsWe thank Mario Huys, Chris Babcock, andChristopher Martin for providing the Diplomacydataset.
We are grateful to Flavio Chierichetti,Sendhil Mullainathan and the annonymous re-viewers for their helpful comments.
This workwas conducted in part while Cristian Danescu-Niculescu-Mizil and Vlad Niculae were at theMax Planck Institute for Software Systems.Jordan Boyd-Graber is supported by NSF GrantsCCF-1409287, IIS-1320538, and NCSE-1422492.Cristian Danescu-Niculescu-Mizil is supported bya Google Faculty Research Award.
Any opin-ions, findings, conclusions, or recommendationsexpressed here are those of the authors and do notnecessarily reflect the view of the sponsor.ReferencesPranav Anand, Joseph King, Jordan Boyd-Graber, EarlWagner, Craig Martell, Douglas W. Oard, and PhilipResnik.
2011.
Believe me: We can do this!
InProceedings of the AAAI 2011 Workshop on Com-putational Models of Natural Argument.Robert Axelrod and Douglas Dion.
1988.
The furtherevolution of cooperation.
Science, 242(4884):1385?1390.Josh Boyd.
2003.
The rhetorical construction of trustonline.
Communication Theory, 13(4):392?410.Berno Buechel, Eike Emrich, and Stefanie Pohlkamp.2013.
Nobody?s innocent: The role of customersin the doping dilemma.
MPRA paper, UniversityLibrary of Munich, Germany.Robert B. Cialdini.
2000.
Influence: Science andPractice (4th Edition).
Allyn & Bacon.Cristian Danescu-Niculescu-Mizil, Moritz Sudhof,Dan Jurafsky, Jure Leskovec, and Christopher Potts.2013.
A computational approach to politeness withapplication to social factors.
In Proceedings of theAssociation for Computational Linguistics.Bradley Efron.
1979.
Bootstrap methods: Anotherlook at the jackknife.
The Annals of Statistics,(1979):1?26.Song Feng, Ritwik Banerjee, and Yejin Choi.
2012.Syntactic stylometry for deception detection.
InProceedings of the Association for ComputationalLinguistics.John M. Gottman and Robert W. Levenson.
2000.
Thetiming of divorce: Predicting when a couple will di-vorce over a 14-year period.
Journal of Marriageand Family, 62(3):737?745.Jeffrey T. Hancock, Lauren E. Curry, Saurabh Goorha,and Michael Woodworth.
2007.
On lying and be-ing lied to: A linguistic analysis of deception incomputer-mediated communication.
Discourse Pro-cesses, 45(1):1?23.Lynn Imai and Michele J. Gelfand.
2010.
The cul-turally intelligent negotiator: The impact of culturalintelligence (CQ) on negotiation sequences and out-comes.
Organizational Behavior and Human Deci-sion Processes, 112(2):83?98.Molly E. Ireland, Richard B. Slatcher, Paul W. East-wick, Lauren E. Scissors, Eli J. Finkel, and James W.Pennebaker.
2011.
Language style matching pre-dicts relationship initiation and stability.
Psycholog-ical Science, 22(1):39?44.Malte Jung, Jan Chong, and Larry Leifer.
2012.Group hedonic balance and pair programming per-formance: Affective interaction dynamics as indica-tors of performance.
In International Conference onHuman Factors in Computing Systems.1658Aniket Kittur, Bongwon Suh, Bryan A. Pendleton, andEd H. Chi.
2007.
He says, she says: Conflict andcoordination in Wikipedia.
In International Confer-ence on Human Factors in Computing Systems.Matthew L. Newman, James W. Pennebaker, Diane S.Berry, and Jane M. Richards.
2003.
Lying words:Predicting deception from linguistic styles.
Person-ality and social psychology bulletin, 29(5):665?675.Myle Ott, Yejin Choi, Claire Cardie, and Jeffrey T.Hancock.
2011.
Finding deceptive opinion spamby any stretch of the imagination.
In Proceedings ofthe Association for Computational Linguistics.Rashmi Prasad, Nikhil Dinesh, Alan Lee, Eleni Milt-sakaki, Livio Robaldo, Aravind K. Joshi, and Bon-nie L. Webber.
2008.
The Penn Discourse TreeBank2.0.
In International Language Resources and Eval-uation.Rajesh Ranganath, Dan Jurafsky, and Dan McFarland.2009.
It?s not you, it?s me: Detecting flirting andits misperception in speed-dates.
In Proceedings ofEmperical Methods in Natural Language Process-ing.Jens Riegelsberger, M. Angela Sasse, and John D. Mc-Carthy.
2003.
The researcher?s dilemma: Eval-uating trust in computer-mediated communication.International Journal of Human-Computer Studies,58(6):759?781.Ellen Riloff and Janyce Wiebe.
2003.
Learningextraction patterns for subjective expressions.
InProceedings of Emperical Methods in Natural Lan-guage Processing.Robert W. Rosenthal.
1981.
Games of perfect infor-mation, predatory pricing and the chain-store para-dox.
Journal of Economic Theory, 25(1):92?100.Richard Sharp.
1978.
The Game of Diplomacy.Arthur Barker Publishing.Richard B. Slatcher and James W. Pennebaker.
2006.How do I love thee?
Let me count the words: Thesocial effects of expressive writing.
PsychologicalScience, 17(8):660?664.Richard Socher, Alex Perelygin, Jean Y Wu, JasonChuang, Christopher D Manning, Andrew Y Ng,and Christopher Potts.
2013.
Recursive deep mod-els for semantic compositionality over a sentimenttreebank.
In Proceedings of Emperical Methods inNatural Language Processing.Christian Stab and Iryna Gurevych.
2014.
Identifyingargumentative discourse structures in persuasive es-says.
In Proceedings of Emperical Methods in Nat-ural Language Processing.Lu Wang and Claire Cardie.
2014.
A piece of mymind: A sentiment analysis approach for online dis-pute detection.
In Proceedings of the Association forComputational Linguistics.1659
