Proceedings of the ACL-IJCNLP 2015 Student Research Workshop, pages 28?34,Beijing, China, July 28, 2015.c?2015 Association for Computational LinguisticsDisease Event Detection based on Deep Modality AnalysisYoshiaki Kitagawa?, Mamoru Komachi?, Eiji Aramaki?,Naoaki Okazaki?, and Hiroshi Ishikawa?
?Tokyo Metropolitan University {kitagawa-yoshiaki at ed., komachi at, ishikawa-hiroshi at}tmu.ac.jp?Kyoto University eiji.aramaki at gmail.com?Tohoku University okazaki at ecei.tohoku.ac.jpAbstractSocial media has attracted attention be-cause of its potential for extraction of in-formation of various types.
For exam-ple, information collected from Twitter en-ables us to build useful applications suchas predicting an epidemic of influenza.However, using text information from so-cial media poses challenges for event de-tection because of the unreliable nature ofuser-generated texts, which often includecounter-factual statements.Consequently, this study proposes the useof modality features to improve diseaseevent detection from Twitter messages, or?tweets?.
Experimental results demon-strate that the combination of a modal-ity dictionary and a modality analyzer im-proves the F1-score by 3.5 points.1 IntroductionThe rapidly increasing popularity of Social Net-working Services (SNSs) such as Twitter andFacebook has greatly eased the dissemination ofinformation.
Such data can serve as a valuable in-formation resource for various applications.
Forinstance, Huberman et al.
(2009) investigated ac-tual linked structures of human networks, Boyd etal.
(2010) mapped out retweeting as a conversa-tional practice, and Sakaki et al.
(2010) detectedearthquakes using SNSs.An important and widespread application ofSNS mining is in the public health field such asinfection detection.
Among various infectious dis-eases, influenza is one of the most important dis-eases worldwide.However, it is difficult to estimate the precisenumber of influenza-infected patients based onna?ve textual features because SNS messages thatcontain the word ?flu?
might not necessarily referto being infected with influenza.
The followingtweets are examples of such cases:(1) I might have the flu.
(2) If I had the flu, I would be forced torest.?might?
in example (1) suggests that there is onlya suspicion of having influenza.
Similarly, ?if?
inexample (2) shows that the person is not actuallyinfected.To filter these instances, we propose to integratetwo modalities of information into factuality anal-ysis: shallow modality analysis based on a surfacestring match and deep modality analysis based onpredicate-argument structure analysis.
The maincontribution of this paper is two-fold:?
We annotate a new dataset extracted fromTwitter for flu detection and prediction task,and extend the na?ve bag-of-words model ofAramaki et al.
(2011) and propose severalTwitter-specific features for disease event de-tection tasks.?
We show that modality information con-tributes to the factuality analysis in influenza-related tweets, which demonstrates the basicfeasibility of the proposed approach.
All fea-tures presented in this paper increase recall.2 Related workThe task of influenza detection and predictionoriginates from the work of Serfling (1963) in epi-demiology who tried to define a threshold for in-fluenza breakout.Since then, various approaches have beenproposed for influenza detection and prediction(Groendyke et al., 2011; Moreno et al., 2002;Mugglin et al., 2002).During the last decade, web-mining approacheshave been proposed to detect influenza bursts in28Table 1: Examples of annotated data.label tweetpositive ?????????????????????????????
?...English translation: After all I was infected with flu ...
This virus is likelyto spread in the family.negative ?????????????????????????????
?English translation: Well, I?d never got a preventive shot against flu.their early stages.
Two sources of people?s behav-ior have been mainly employed: (1) web searchqueries (such as Yahoo!
search (Polgreen et al.,2008) and Google search (Ginsberg et al., 2009)),and (2) activity logs of SNSs.
This study specifi-cally examines the latter because of the availabilityand accessibility of data.Twitter is the SNS that is most frequently usedfor influenza detection (Achrekar et al., 2012; Ara-maki et al., 2011; Ji et al., 2012; Sadilek et al.,2012; Lamb, 2013).
Previous research on the sub-ject has revealed a high correlation ratio betweenthe number of influenza patients and actual tweetsrelated to influenza.It is possible to obtain large amounts of datafrom Twitter texts, but the main challenge is to fil-ter noise from this data.
For example, Aramakiet al.
(2011) reported that half of the tweets con-taining the word ?cold (disease)?
simply mentionsome information about a disease, but do not referto the actual eventuality of having the disease.To address that problem, a classifier was pro-duced to ascertain the factuality of the diseaseevent.
This paper follows that approach, us-ing modality analysis, which provides a strongclue for factuality analysis (Saur?
and Pustejovsky,2012).Modality has been used and discussed in vari-ous places.
Li et al.
(2014) employ such modal-ity features, although they do not describe the ef-fect of using modality features in web applicationtasks.
Furthermore, several workshops have beenorganized around the use of specific modalities,such as Negation and Speculation (e.g.
NeSP-NLP1).
In this study, we use generic modality fea-tures to improve factuality analysis.1www.clips.ua.ac.be/NeSpNLP2010/3 Modality analysis for disease eventdetection3.1 Task and dataThe disease event detection task is a binary clas-sification task to extract/differentiate whether thewriter or the person around the writer is infectedwith influenza or not.
However, because of the in-herently noisy nature of tweets, some tweet mes-sages are unrelated to influenza infection evenwhen the messages include the word ?flu.?
There-fore, we adopt a supervised approach first pro-posed by Aramaki et al.
(2011).We annotate a tweet with a binary label (in-fluenza positive and negative), as in prior stud-ies (Aramaki et al., 2011)2.
If a tweet writer(or anybody near the writer) is infected with in-fluenza, then the label is positive.
Otherwise, thelabel is negative.
Additionally, we save the timestamp when the tweet was posted online.
Table1 presents some examples.
For this study, weuse 10,443 Japanese tweet messages including theword ?flu.?
In this dataset, the number of positiveexamples is 1,319; the number of negative exam-ples is 9,124.Because language heavily relies on modality tojudge the factuality of sentences, modality anal-ysis is a necessary process for factuality analy-sis (Matsuyoshi et al., 2010b).
In line with thisobservation, we propose two ways to incorporatemodality analysis for factuality analysis.3.2 Shallow modality featureIn Japanese, multiple words can serve as a func-tion word as a whole (Matsuyoshi et al., 2007).
Wedesignate them as ?functional expressions.?
Eventhough functional expressions often carry modal-ity information, previous works including Ara-maki et al.
(2011) do not consider functional ex-pressions that comprise several words.
Therefore,2These data are used for training an influenza web surveil-lance service ?Mr.influ?
http://mednlp.jp/influ/.29Table 2: Sense ID feature based on Tsutsuji.tweet sense ID??????????...?????????
??
r32???
D41??
Q31??
n13English translation: You were infected with flu... (The words such us ?were?
and ?with?
areI was surprised.
converted to sense IDs.
)Table 3: Extended modality feature based on Zunda.tweet extended modality????????????????
??=?
?English translation: I found out that the patient next to me had the flu.
found out = happenedwe use the hierarchically organized dictionary ofJapanese functional expressions, ?Tsutsuji3,?
asthe first approach.Tsutsuji provides surface forms of 16,801 en-tries.
In addition, it classifies them hierarchically.Each node in the hierarchy has a sense ID.
We usethe sense ID of Tsutsuji as a shallow semantic fea-ture to capture the modality of the main predicatein tweets.
To find functional expressions relatedto influenza, we use this feature when a functionalexpression in Tsutsuji is found within 15 charac-ters to the right context of ?flu.?
Table 2 presentsan example of a tweet and the sense ID feature as-signed by Tsutsuji.3.3 Deep modality featureTo incorporate deep modality analysis, we use theoutput of the Japanese Extended Modality Ana-lyzer, ?Zunda,4?
which analyzes modality suchas authenticity judgments (whether the event hashappened) and virtual event (whether it is an as-sumption or a story) with respect to the context ofthe events (verbs, adjective, and event-nouns).
Itis trained on the Extended Modality Corpus (Mat-suyoshi et al., 2010a) using rich linguistic fea-tures such as dependency and predicate?argumentstructural analysis.
It complements the dictionary-based shallow modality feature described in theprevious section.Specifically, Zunda grasps the modality infor-mation such us negation and speculation.
See thefollowing example:(1) ???????????????
(English translation: I am not infected3Tsutsuji: Japanese functional expressions dictionaryhttp://kotoba.nuee.nagoya-u.ac.jp/tsutsuji/4Zunda: extended modality analyzerhttps://code.google.com/p/zunda/Table 4: Result of binary classification for diseaseevent detection.feature Prec.
Rec.
F1-scoreBoW 74.0 30.5 43.2BoW+URL 69.9 31.3 43.2BoW+Atmark 74.0 30.5 43.2BoW+N-gram 70.7 34.5 46.4BoW+Season 72.4 33.3 45.6BoW+Tsutsuji 76.4 32.1 45.2BoW+Zunda 69.9 31.3 43.2baseline 69.7 39.2 50.2baseline+Tsutsuji 70.2 42.0 52.6baseline+Zunda 67.9 41.2 51.3All 68.9 44.0 53.7with influenza.
)(2) ???????????????????
(English translation: Imight be infected with influenza.
)For this example, Zunda detects that ?infected?
isan event and judges the probability of it describingan event.
For example (1) and (2), Zunda respec-tively outputs ?not happened?
and ?high probabil-ity happened?.We consider verbs and event-nouns that followthe word ?flu?
to be related to influenza infection.In addition, we assign the estimated modality tothem as a deep modality feature.
Table 3 presentsan example of a tweet and the estimated modalityfeature assigned by Zunda.4 Experiment of disease event detection4.1 Evaluation and toolsConsidering our purpose of disease event detec-tion, it is important to estimate the number of pos-itive instances for flu correctly.
In contrast, it is30Table 5: Contribution and error analysis of shallow modality features.Example 1 @*?????????????????,?????????????
(correct example) English translation: @* The flu is apparently terrible and I have notrecovered yet.Example 2 @*??????????????????????????????
(false positive) English translation: @* The flu is going around, so you should wash handsand gargle.Example 3 ???????????...??????????????...
(false negative) English translation: I can not believe I have the flu!
I have goose bumps.
I shiverand feel so cold... .Table 6: Examples of deep modality feature with large weight.
English translations are given in paren-theses.feature weight feature weight??=??
0.80 ??=??
-0.62(infection = happened) (injection = happened)???=??
0.65 ??=??
-0.50(infect = happened) (countermeasure = happened)??=??
0.52 ??
?=0 -0.48(diagnosis = happened) (infection = 0)?=??
0.47 ??=??
-0.45(sleep = happened) (become = happened)??=??
0.47 ??=??
-0.45(revelation = happened) (do = happened)??=??
0.44 ??=??
-0.42(recovery = happened) (death = happened)???=??
0.40 ??=??
-0.39(down = happened) (perform = happened)???=??
0.39 ??=??
-0.38(give = happened) (attention = happened)??=??
0.37 ??=???
-0.37(incubation = happened) (infection = not happened)less important to predict the number of negativeinstances, although our system has high accuracy(about 91%).
Therefore, we computed the preci-sion, recall, and F1-score as the evaluation metricsand conducted five-fold cross-validation.We used Classias (ver.1.1)5with its default set-ting to train the model.
We applied L2-regularizedlogistic regression as a training algorithm.
Weused MeCab (ver.0.996) with IPADic (ver.2.7.0)as a morphological analyzer.4.2 FeatureThe features used for the experiments are pre-sented below.
These features are not modality fea-5Classias:http://www.chokkan.org/software/classias/tures.
We selected these features by performingpreliminary experiments.
Here, we omit the de-scription related to modality features because thedetails are described in Section 3.BoW: Bag of Words features of six morphemesaround the ?flu.
?N-gram (character N-gram): Feature of char-acter N-gram around the word ?flu.?
The value ofN is 1?4.URL: Binary feature of the presence or absenceof URL in messages.Atmark: Binary feature of the presence or ab-sence of reply in messages.31Table 7: Contribution and error analysis of deep modality features.Example 4 10???????????????????????
wwww(correct example) English translation: It?s been 10 years since I last had the flu, but now I haveone (LOL).Example 5 ASPARAGUS????????????????????????
DOMe????????????
(false positive) English translation: Watanabe of ASPARAGUS is infected with flu, and today?sconcert in Kashiwa Dome has been canceled.Example 6 ?????????????
(^o^)?
(false negative) English translation: So you have a flu... .
Take care.
:)Figure 1: Learning curve for disease event detec-tion.Season: Binary feature of whether posting timeis within December through February or not.4.3 BaselineFor disease event detection, we follow previousstudies Aramaki et al.
(2011, 2012) to build thebaseline classifier using a supervised approach.The baseline is constructed by combining all fea-tures except the modality features.4.4 Experimental resultsThe result of disease event detection is shown inTable 4.
Overall, they seem to have low recall andF1-Score.
However, it turns out to be difficult toachieve high recall because the percentage of pos-itive cases is extremely low (about 12.6%).As shown, N-gram and Season features improveF1-score.
Although the shallow modality featureboosts both precision and recall, the deep modal-ity feature only improves recall in compensationwith precision.
The highest recall for the F1-scoreis achieved when using both shallow and deepmodality features from Tsutsuji and Zunda (in thecase of ?All?).
This result underscores the utilityof the modality features for classifying a post byits factuality.In addition, to judge the performance with re-spect to the amount of data, we plot a learningcurve in Figure 1.
Although the decision changesonly slightly, recall tends to improve by increasingthe amount of data.5 DiscussionAs described in this paper, we demonstrate thecontribution of modality analysis for disease eventdetection.
In what follows, we conduct error anal-ysis of our proposed method.5.1 Contribution and error analysis forshallow modalityTable 5 shows the correct and incorrect examplesfor the shallow modality.
Example 1 is a cor-rect example.
In this case, we convert ?????(?seem?)
into sense ID; the classifier outputs anappropriate label.
Example 2 is an example offalse positive.
Example 3 is an example of a falsenegative.
Both examples are incorrect becausethey are assigned wrong sense IDs.
That point il-lustrates the limitations of a simple string match,which does not take the context into account.
It isnecessary to perform word sense disambiguationfor modality-related words.5.2 Contribution and error analysis for deepmodalityNext, we examine the deep modality features.
Ta-ble 6 presents results of the deep modality featuressorted by weight in descending order.In many cases, the features can be understoodintuitively compared to those of shallow modal-ity features.
Among the posts including the word?flu,?
posts about disease warnings, posts about32vaccinations, and posts about epidemic news ac-count for a large proportion.
This tendency is ex-hibited clearly when one assigns negative weights.Positive weights include many event-nouns andverbs that are related directly to the disease.Table 7 presents correct and incorrect examplesfor deep modality.
Example 4 is a correct exam-ple.
The deep modality feature ?infection = hap-pened?
makes it possible to judge Example 4 cor-rectly.
Deep modality features appear to be criti-cal in many cases, but in some cases they do notfunction as expected.
Example 5 is an exampleof a false positive.
Because of the ?infection =happened?
feature, the classifier judges it positive.However, not the writer, but a well-known figure(Watanabe of ASPARAGUS) has been infectedwith influenza.
This is a common mistake that theclassifier makes.
This result indicates the impor-tance of identifying the entity that is involved ina disease event.
Furthermore, our classifier is notrobust for non-event problems.
Example 6 is anexample of false positive.
This example does nothave the argument of an event.
It is the character-istics of the colloquial sentence.
Such examplescan often be found in web documents.6 ConclusionThis study examined a disease event detectionmethod incorporating both shallow and deepmodality features.
Results show that the modalityfeatures improve the accuracy of the influenza de-tection.
Although we have demonstrated that ourmethod is useful for particular disease event detec-tions, we must still ascertain whether it is applica-ble for other infectious diseases such as norovirusand dengue.As future work, we would like to disambiguatefunctional expressions using sequence labelingtechniques (Utsuro et al., 2007); we would alsolike to identify the predicate?argument structureof disease events (Kanouchi et al., 2015).
Apartfrom that, an information extraction approach thatlooks for more specific patterns should be verified.Finally, we would like to adopt these findings toimprove the prediction of epidemics.AcknowledgmentsWe thank anonymous reviewers for their construc-tive comments, which have helped us to improvethe manuscript.ReferencesHarshavardhan Achrekar, Avinash Gandhe, RossLazarus, Ssu-Hsin Yu, and Benyuan Liu.
2012.Twitter improves seasonal influenza prediction.
InInternational Conference on Health Informatics,pages 61?70.Eiji Aramaki, Sachiko Masukawa, and Mizuki Morita.2011.
Twitter catches the flu: detecting influenzaepidemics using Twitter.
In Proceedings of the 16thConference on Empirical Methods in Natural Lan-guage Processing, pages 1568?1576.Eiji Aramaki, Sachiko Masukawa, and Mizuki Morita.2012.
Microblog-based infectious disease detectionusing document classification and infectious diseasemodel.
Journal of Natural Langage Proccessing,19(5):419?435.Danah Boyd, Scott Golder, and Gilad Lotan.
2010.Tweet, tweet, retweet: Conversational aspects ofretweeting on Twitter.
In Proceedings of the 201043rd Hawaii International Conference on SystemSciences, pages 1?10.Jeremy Ginsberg, Matthew H Mohebbi, Rajan S Pa-tel, Lynnette Brammer, Mark S Smolinski, andLarry Brilliant.
2009.
Detecting influenza epi-demics using search engine query data.
Nature,457(7232):1012?1014.Chris Groendyke, David Welch, and David R Hunter.2011.
Bayesian inference for contact networksgiven epidemic data.
Scandinavian Journal ofStatistics, 38(3):600?616.Bernardo A Huberman, Daniel M Romero, and FangWu.
2009.
Social networks that matter: Twitterunder the microscope.
First Monday, 14(1):1?9.Xiang Ji, Soon Ae Chun, and James Geller.
2012.
Epi-demic outbreak and spread detection system basedon Twitter data.
In Health Information Science,pages 152?163.Shin Kanouchi, Mamoru Komachi, Naoaki Okazaki,Eiji Aramaki, and Hiroshi Ishikawa.
2015.
Whocaught a cold?
- identifying the subject of a symp-tom.
In Proceedings of 53rd Annual Meeting of theAssociation for Computational Linguistics.Hubert Horace Lamb.
2013.
Climate: Present, Pastand Future: Volume 1: Fundamentals and ClimateNow.
Routledge.Jiwei Li, Alan Ritter, Claire Cardie, and Eduard Hovy.2014.
Major life event extraction from Twitterbased on congratulations/condolences speech acts.In Proceedings of the 19th Conferences on Empiri-cal Methods in Natural Language Processing, pages1997?2007.Suguru Matsuyoshi, Satoshi Sato, and Takehito Utsuro.2007.
A Dictionary of Japanese Functional Expres-sions with Hierarchical Organization.
Journal ofNatural Langage Proccessing, 14(5):123?146.33Suguru Matsuyoshi, Megumi Eguchi, Chitose Sao,Koji Murakami, Kentaro Inui, and Yuji Matsumoto.2010a.
Annotating event mentions in text withmodality, focus, and source information.
In Pro-ceedings of the Seventh International Conference onLanguage Resources and Evaluation (LREC), pages1456?1463.Suguru Matsuyoshi, Megumi Eguchi, Chitose Sao,Koji Murakami, Kentaro Inui, and Yuji Matsumoto.2010b.
Factuality annotation for textual informationanalysis.
The IEICE Transactions on Information anSystems, 93(6):705?713.Yamir Moreno, Romualdo Pastor-Satorras, andAlessandro Vespignani.
2002.
Epidemic outbreaksin complex heterogeneous networks.
The EuropeanPhysical Journal B-Condensed Matter and ComplexSystems, 26(4):521?529.Andrew S Mugglin, Noel Cressie, and Islay Gemmell.2002.
Hierarchical statistical modelling of influenzaepidemic dynamics in space and time.
Statistics inmedicine, 21(18):2703?2721.Philip M Polgreen, Yiling Chen, David M Pennock,Forrest D Nelson, and Robert A Weinstein.
2008.Using internet searches for influenza surveillance.Clinical infectious diseases, 47(11):1443?1448.Adam Sadilek, Henry Kautz, and Jeffrey P Bigham.2012.
Finding your friends and following them towhere you are.
In Proceedings of the fifth ACM in-ternational conference on web search and data min-ing, pages 723?732.Takeshi Sakaki, Makoto Okazaki, and Yutaka Matsuo.2010.
Earthquake shakes Twitter users: real-timeevent detection by social sensors.
In Proceedingsof the 19th international conference on World wideweb, pages 851?860.Roser Saur?
and James Pustejovsky.
2012.
Are yousure that this happened?
Assessing the factuality de-gree of events in text.
Computational Linguistics,38(2):261?299.Robert E Serfling.
1963.
Methods for current statis-tical analysis of excess pneumonia-influenza deaths.Public health reports, 78(6):494.Takehito Utsuro, Takao Shime, Masatoshi Tsuchiya,Suguru Matsuyoshi, and Satoshi Sato.
2007.Chunking and dependency analysis of japanesecompound functional expressions by machine learn-ing.
In Proceedings of 10th International Confer-ence on Text, Speech and Dialogue (TSD).34
