Proceedings of the 53rd Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguisticsand the 7th International Joint Conference on Natural Language Processing, pages 1671?1680,Beijing, China, July 26-31, 2015.c?2015 Association for Computational LinguisticsWeakly Supervised Role Identification in Teamwork InteractionsDiyi YangSchool of Computer ScienceCarnegie Mellon UniversityPittsburgh, PA, 15213, USAdiyiy@cs.cmu.eduMiaomiao WenSchool of Computer ScienceCarnegie Mellon UniversityPittsburgh, PA, 15213, USAmwen@cs.cmu.eduCarolyn Penstein Ros?eSchool of Computer ScienceCarnegie Mellon UniversityPittsburgh, PA, 15213, USAcprose@cs.cmu.eduAbstractIn this paper, we model conversationalroles in terms of distributions of turn levelbehaviors, including conversation acts andstylistic markers, as they occur over thewhole interaction.
This work presents alightly supervised approach to inducingrole definitions over sets of contributionswithin an extended interaction, where thesupervision comes in the form of an out-come measure from the interaction.
Theidentified role definitions enable a map-ping from behavior profiles of each par-ticipant in an interaction to limited sizedfeature vectors that can be used effectivelyto predict the teamwork outcome.
An em-pirical evaluation applied to two MassiveOpen Online Course (MOOCs) datasetsdemonstrates that this approach yields su-perior performance in learning representa-tions for predicting the teamwork outcomeover several baselines.1 IntroductionIn language technologies research seeking tomodel conversational interactions, modeling ap-proaches have aimed to identify conversation acts(Paul, 2012; Wallace et al, 2013; Bhatia et al,2014) on a per turn basis, or to identify stances(Germesin and Wilson, 2009; Mukherjee et al,2013; Piergallini et al, 2014; Hasan and Ng, 2014)that characterize the nature of a speaker?s ori-entation within an interaction over several turns.What neither of these two perspectives quite offeris a notion of a conversational role.
And yet,conversational role is a concept with great utilityin current real world applications where languagetechnologies may be applied.Important teamwork is achieved through collab-oration where discussion is an important mediumfor accomplishing work.
For example, distributedwork teams are becoming increasingly the normin the business world where creating innovativeproducts in the networked world is a commonpractice.
This work requires the effective ex-change of expertise and ideas.
Open sourceand open collaboration organizations have suc-cessfully aggregated the efforts of millions ofvolunteers to produce complex artifacts such asGNU/Linux and Wikipedia.
Discussion towardsdecision making about how to address problemsthat arise or how to extend work benefit fromeffective conversational interactions.
With a grow-ing interest in social learning in large onlineplatforms such as Massive Open Online Courses(MOOCs), students form virtual study groups andteams to complete a course project, and thusmay need to coordinate and accomplish the workthrough discussion.
In all such environments,discussions serve a useful purpose, and thus theeffectiveness of the interaction can be measured interms of the quality of the resulting product.We present a modeling approach that leveragesthe concept of latent conversational roles as anintermediary between observed discussions and ameasure of interaction success.
While a stanceidentifies speakers in terms of their positioningwith respect to one another, roles associate speak-ers with rights and responsibilities, associatedwith common practices exhibited by performersof that role within an interaction, towards somespecific interaction outcome.
That outcome maybe achieved through strategies characterized interms of conversation acts or language with partic-ular stylistic characteristics.
However, individualacts by themselves lack the power to achieve acomplex outcome.
We argue that roles make upfor this decontextualized view of a conversationalcontribution by identifying distributions of con-versation acts and stylistic features as behaviorprofiles indicative of conversational roles.
These1671profiles have more explanatory power to identifystrategies that lead to successful outcomes.In the remainder of the paper we first reviewrelated work that lays the foundation for ourapproach.
Then we describe a series of roleidentification models.
Experimental results are an-alyzed quantitatively and qualitatively in Section4, followed by conclusions and future work.2 Related WorkThe concept of social role has long been used insocial science fields to describe the intersectionof behavioral, symbolic, and structural attributesthat emerge regularly in particular contexts.
The-ory on coordination in groups and organizationsemphasizes role differentiation, division of laborand formal and informal management (Kittur andKraut, 2010).
However, identification of roles assuch has not had a corresponding strong emphasisin the language technologies community, althoughthere has been work on related notions.
Forexample, there has been much previous work mod-eling disagreement and debate framed as stanceclassification (Thomas et al, 2006; Walker et al,2012).
Another similar line of work studies theidentification of personas (Bamman et al, 2013;Bamman et al, 2014) in the context of a socialnetwork, e.g.
celebrity, newbie, lurker, flamer,troll and ranter, etc, which evolve through userinteraction (Forestier et al, 2012).What is similar between stances and personason the one hand and roles on the other is that theunit of analysis is the person.
On the other hand,they are distinct in that stances (e.g., liberal) andpersonas (e.g., lurker) are not typically defined interms of what they are meant to accomplish, al-though they may be associated with kinds of thingsthey do.
Teamwork roles are defined in terms ofwhat the role holder is meant to accomplish.The notion of a natural outcome associated witha role suggests a modeling approach utilizing theoutcome as light supervision towards identifica-tion of the latent roles.
However, representationsof other notions such as stances or strategies cansimilarly be used to predict outcomes.
Cadilhac etal.
maps strategies based on verbal contributionsof participants in a win-lose game into a predictionof exactly which players, if any, trade with eachother (Cadilhac et al, 2013).
Hu et al (Hu etal., 2009) predict the outcome of featured articlenominations based on user activeness, discussionconsensus and user co-review relations.
In otherwork, the authors of (Somasundaran and Wiebe,2009) adopt manually annotated characters andleaders to predict which participants will achievesuccess in online debates.
The difference is theinterpretation of the latent constructs.
The latentconstruct of a role, such as team leader, is definedin terms of a distribution of characteristics thatdescribe how that role should ideally be carriedout.
However, in the case of stances, the latentconstructs are learned in order to distinguish onestance from another or in order to predict whowill win.
This approach will not necessarilyoffer insight into what marks the most staunchproponents of a stance, but instead distinguishthose proponents of a stance who are persuasivefrom those who are not.Roles need not only be identified with thesubstance of the text uttered by role holders.Previous work discovers roles in social networksbased on the network structure (Hu and Liu,2012; Zhao et al, 2013).
Examples include suchthings as mixed membership stochastic block-models (MMSB) (Airoldi et al, 2008), similarunsupervised matrix factorization methods (Huand Liu, 2012), or semi-supervised role inferencemodels (Zhao et al, 2013).
However, these ap-proaches do not standardly utilize an outcome assupervision to guide the clustering.Many open questions exist about what teamroles and in what balance would make the idealgroup composition (Neuman et al, 1999), andhow those findings interact with other contextualfactors (Senior, 1997; Meredith Belbin, 2011).Thus, a modeling approach that can be appliedto new contexts in order to identify roles thatare particularly valuable given the context wouldpotentially have high practical value.3 Role Identification ModelsThe context of this work is team based MOOCsusing the NovoEd platform.
In this context, weexamine the interaction between team membersas they work together to achieve instructionalgoals in their project work.
Our modeling goalis to identify behavior profiles that describe theemergent roles that team members take up in orderto work towards a successful group grade for theirteam project.
Identification of effective role basedbehavior profiles would enable work towards sup-porting effective team formation in subsequent1672work.
This approach would be similar to priorwork where constraints that describe successfulteams were used to group participants into teamsin which each member?s expertise is modeled sothat an appropriate mixture of expertise can beachieved in the assignment (Anagnostopoulos etal., 2010).In this section, we begin with an introduction ofsome basic notations.
Then we present an iterativemodel, which involves two stages: teamwork qual-ity prediction and student role matching.
Further-more, we generalize this model to a constrainedversion which provides more interpretable roleassignments.
In the end, we describe how toconstruct student behavior representations fromtheir teamwork collaboration process.3.1 NotationSuppose we have C teams where students col-laborate to finish a course project together.
Thenumber of students in the j-th team is denoted asNj, (1 ?
j ?
Nj).
There are K roles across Cteams that we want to identify, where 1 ?
K ?Nj, ?j ?
[1, C].
That is, the number of roles issmaller than or equal to the number of students in ateam, which means that each role should have onestudent assigned to it, but not every student needsto be assigned to a role.
Each role is associatedwith a weight vector Wk?
RDto be learned,1 ?
k ?
K and D is the number of dimensions.Each student i in a team j is associated with abehavior vector Bj,i?
RD.
The measurementof teamwork quality is denoted as Qjfor teamj, and?Qjis the predicted quality.
Here,?Qjisdetermined by the inner product of the behaviorvectors of students who are assigned to differentroles and the corresponding weight vectors.Teamwork Role Identification Our goal isto find a proper teamwork role assignment thatpositively contributes to the collaboration outcomeas much as possible.3.2 Role IdentificationHere we describe our role identification model.Our role identification process is iterative andinvolves two stages.
The first stage adjusts theweight vectors to predict the teamwork qual-ity, given a fixed role assignment that assumesstudents are well matched to roles; the secondstage iterates the possible assignments and finds amatching to maximize our objective measure.
TheS1S2SNR1R2RK?
?Weight(i,j) = WkTBj,pj,kmaximum weightedmatchingcandidate edgesSi    i-th student in j-th teamRk    the k-th roleWeighted Bipartite Graphfor j-th teamFigure 1: Weighted Bipartite Graph for a Teamtwo stages run iteratively until both role assign-ment and teamwork quality prediction converge.Teamwork Quality Prediction: Given theidentified role assignment, i.e.
we know who isassigned to which roles in a team, the focus is toaccurately predict the teamwork quality under thisrole assignment.
pj,krefers to the student whois assigned to role k in team j.
We minimizethe following objective function to update the roleweight vector W :minW12C?j=1(Qj?K?k=1WkT?Bj,pj,k)+??
?W?2(1)Here, ?
is the regularization parameter; large ?leads to higher complexity penalization.
To givethe optimal solution to Equation 1, which is a clas-sical ridge regression task (Hoerl and Kennard,2000), we can easily compute the optimal solutionby its closed form representation, as shown in theAlgorithm 1.Matching Members to Roles: Once the weightvector W is updated, we iterate over all thepossible assignments and find the best role as-signment, where the goal is to maximize thepredicted teamwork quality since we want ourassignment of students and roles to be associatedwith improvement in the quality of teamwork.The complexity of brute-force enumeration of allpossible role assignments is exponential.
To avoidsuch an expensive computational cost, we designa weighted bipartite graph and apply a maximumweighted matching algorithm (Ravindra et al,1993) to find the best matching under the objectiveof maximizing?Cj=1?Qj.
Because this objective isa summation, we can further separate it intoC iso-1673Algorithm 1: Role Identification1 Heuristicly initialize the role assignment pj,k2 while assignments have not converged do// Teamwork Quality Prediction3 X ?
a C ?
(K ?D) matrix4 for j = 1 to C do5 Xj,??
(Bj,pj,1, Bj,pj,2, .
.
.
, Bj,pj,K)// optimal solution to Eq.
16 (W1, .
.
.
,WC)?
(XTX + ?I)?1XTQ// Student and Role Matching// maximize?j?Qj7 for j = 1 to C do8 (pj,?)?
maximum weighted bipartitematching on Figure 1lated components forC teams by maximizing each?Qj.
For each team, a weighted bipartite graph iscreated as specified in Figure 1.
By applying themaximum weighted matching algorithm on thisgraph, we can obtain the best role assignment foreach team.The two stage role identification model issolved in detail in Algorithm 1.3.3 Role Identification with ConstraintsThe above role identification model puts no con-straints on the roles that we want to identify inteamwork.
This might result in more effort toexplain how different roles collaborate to producethe teamwork success.
Therefore, we introducea constrained role identification model, which isable to integrate external constraints on roles.
Forexample, we can require our extracted role set tocontain a role that makes a positive contributionto the project success and a role that contributesrelatively negatively, instead of extracting severalgeneric roles.
To address such constraints, in thestage of teamwork quality prediction, we reformu-late the Equation 2 as follows:L =12C?j=1(Qj?K?k=1WkT?Bj,pj,k) + ??W?2?
?+?k?S+D?d=1log(Wkd)?
??
?k?S?D?d=1log(?Wkd)(2)Algorithm 2: Identification with Constraints1 Heuristicly initialize the role assignment pj,k2 while assignments have not converged do// Teamwork Quality Prediction3 X ?
a C ?
(K ?D) matrix4 for j = 1 to C do5 Xj?
(Bj,pj,1, Bj,pj,2, .
.
.
, Bj,pj,K)// gradient descent solution toEq.
26 ?+, ???
large enough values7 while ?+, ?
?>  do8 while not converge do9 for k = 1 to K do10 Wk?Wk?
?
?
?L?Wk11 ?+?
?
?
?+12 ???
?
?
?
?// Students and Roles Matching// maximize?j?Qj13 for j = 1 to C do14 (pj,?)?
maximum weighted bipartitematching on Figure 1The external constraints are handled by the logbarrier terms (Ahuja et al, 1993).
Here, ?+and?
?are positive parameters used to penalize theviolation of role constraints.
S+is the set of rolesthat we want to assign students who contributepositively to the group outcome (i.e.
above av-erage level), and S?contains the roles that wewant to capture students who contribute negativelyto the group outcome (i.e.
below average level).The solving of Equation 2 cannot directly applythe previous ridge regression algorithm, thus weuse the Interior Point Method (Potra and Wright,2000) to solve it.
The detailed procedure is illus-trated in Algorithm 2, where the ?
is a constant tocontrol the shrinkage and ?
is the learning rate.3.4 Behavior ConstructionOne essential component in our teamwork roleidentification models is the student behavior rep-resentation.
To some extent, a proper behav-ior representation is essential for facilitating theinterpretation of identified roles.
We constructthe representation of student behavior from thefollowing feature types:Team Member Behaviors: How a team func-tions can be reflected in their team communicationmessages.
To understand how students collaborate1674Type Behavior Definition Example MessagesTeam Building Invite or accept users Lauren, We would love to have you.to join the group Jill and I are both ESL specialists in Boston.Task Initiate a task or assign Housekeeping Task 3 is optional but below areManagement subtask to a team member the questions I summarize and submit for our team.Collaboration Collaborate with teammates, I figured out how to use the Google Docs.provide help or feedback Let?s use it to share our lesson plans.Table 1: Three Different Types of Team Member Behaviorsto contribute to teamwork success, we identifiedthree main team member behaviors based on mes-sages sent between team members as shown inTable 1.
These annotations, which came fromprior qualitative work analysing discussion contri-butions in the same dataset (Wen et al, 2015), areused to define component behaviors in this work.We design four variables to characterize the abovecollaboration behaviors:1.
Collaboration: the number of Collaborationmessages sent by this team member.2.
Task Management: the number of TaskManagement messages sent by this team member.3.
Team Building: the number of Team Buildingmessages sent by this team member.4.
Other Strategies: the number of messagesthat do not belong to the listed behavior categories.Communication Languages: Teams that worksuccessfully typically exchange more knowledgeand establish good social relations.
To capturesuch evidence that is indicated in the languagechoice and linguistic styles of each team member,we design the following features:5.
Personal Pronouns: the proportion of firstperson and second person pronouns.6.
Negation: counts of negation words.7.
Question Words: counts of question relatedwords in the posts, e.g.
why, what, question,problem, how, answer, etc.8.
Discrepancy: number of occurrences ofwords, such as should, would, could, etc as definedin LIWC (Tausczik and Pennebaker, 2010).9.
Social Process: number of words that denotesocial processes and suggest human interaction,e.g.
talking, sharing, etc.10.
Cognitive Process: number of occurrencesof words that reflect thinking and reasoning, e.g.cause, because, thus, etc.11-14.
Polarity: four variables that measurethe portion of Positive, Negative, Neutral, Bothpolarity words (Wilson et al, 2005) in the posts.15-16.
Subjectivity: two count variables of oc-currences of Strong Subjectivity words and WeakSubjectivity words.Activities: We also introduce several variablesto measure the activeness level of team members.17-18.
Messages: two variables that measurethe total number of messages sent, and the numberof tokens contained in the messages.19-20.
Videos: the number of videos a studenthas watched and total duration of watched videos.21.
Login Times: times that a student logins tothe course.4 ExperimentsIn this section, we begin with the dataset descrip-tion, and then we compare our models with severalcompetitive baselines by performing 10-fold crossvalidation on two MOOCs, followed by a series ofquantitative and qualitative analyses.4.1 DatasetOur datasets come from a MOOC providerNovoEd, and consist of two MOOC courses.Both courses are teacher professional develop-ment courses about Constructive Classroom Con-versations; one is in elementary education andanother is about secondary education.
Studentsin a NovoEd MOOC have to initiate or join ateam in the beginning of the course.
A NovoEdteam homepage consists of blog posts, commentsand other content shared within the group.
Theperformance measure we use is the final teamproject score, which is in the range of 0 to 40.There are 57 teams (163 students) who surviveduntil the end in the Elementary education course,and 77 teams (262 students) who survived forthe Secondary course.
The surviving teams arethe ones in which none of the team membersdropped out of the course, and who finished all thecourse requirements.
For the purpose of varyingteamwork roles K, we only keep the teams with1675at least 3 members.
Self-identified team leader arelabeled in the dataset.4.2 BaselinesWe propose several baselines to extract possibleroles and predict the teamwork quality for compar-ison with our models.
Preprocessing is identicalfor baselines as for our approach.Top K Worst/Best: The worst performing stu-dent is often the bottleneck in a team, while thesuccess of a team project largely depends on theoutstanding students.
Therefore, we use the top Kworst/best performing students as our identifiedKroles.
Their behavior representation are then usedto predict the teamwork quality.
The performingscores are only accessible after the course.K-Means Clustering: Students who are as-signed to the same roles tend to have similaractivity profiles.
To capture the similarities ofstudent behavior, we adopt a clustering method togroup students in a team into K clusters, and thenassign students to roles based on their distancesto the centroid of clusters.
Prediction is thenperformed on the basis of those correspondingbehavior vectors.
Here, we use K-Means methodfor clustering.
That is, each cluster is a latent rep-resentation of a role and each student is assignedto its closest cluster (role).Leader: Leaders play important roles for thesmooth functioning of teams, and thus mighthave substantial predictive power of team success.We input our role identification model with onlythe identified leader?s behavior representation andconduct our role identification algorithm as illus-trated in Algorithm 1.
Each team in our courseshave a predefined leader.Average: The average representation of allteam members is a good indication of team abilitylevel and thus teamwork success.
Here, we av-erage all team members?
behavior feature vectorsand use that to predict the teamwork quality.4.3 Teamwork Quality Prediction ResultsThe purpose of our role identification is to finda role assignment that minimizes the predictionerror, thus we measure the performance of ourmodels using RMSE (Rooted Mean Square Error).10-fold Cross Validation is employed to test theoverall performance.
Table 2 and Table 3 presentsthe results of our proposed models and baselineson our two courses.
Our role identification modelshown in Algorithm 1, is denoted as RI.
?
is set as0.9 and we vary the role number K from 1 to 3 inorder to assess the added value of each additionalrole over the first one.4.3.1 Who Matters Most In a TeamIf we set the number of roles K as 1, whatwill the role identification pick as the most im-portant person to the teamwork outcome?
FromTable 2 and 3, we find that, RI performs better thanLeader, and either TopK Best gives a good RMSEin one course and Top K Worst gives a goodRMSE in the other course.
This indicates that, thepredefined leader is not always functioning wellin facilitating the teamwork, thus we need a morefair mechanism to select the proper leading role.Besides, Top K worst has quite good performanceon the Elementary course, which reflects that thesuccess of a teamwork is to some extent dependenton the worst performing student in that team.
Thebest performing student matters for the teamworkoutcome on the Secondary course.4.3.2 Multi-Role CollaborationFrom Table 2 and 3, in the setting of K=3, RIachieved better results compared to Top K Best,Top K Worst and K-means methods.
One expla-nation is that our RI model not only considers indi-vidual student?s behaviors, but also takes into ac-count the collaboration patterns through all team-work.
Besides, RI achieves better performancecompared to our baselines as K becomes larger.We also noticed that TopK Best gives a quite goodapproximation to the teamwork quality on bothcourses.
However, such performing scores thatare used to rank students are not accessible untilthe course ends, and have high correlation withteam score.
Thus an advantage of our RI modelis that it does not make use of that information.Compared with all other results, our RI has a goodgeneralization ability, and achieves both a smallestRMSE of around 10 across both MOOCs.4.4 Role Assignment ValidationWe demonstrate the predicative power of ouridentified roles to team success above.
In thispart, we interpret the identified roles guided bydifferent constraints in a team qualitatively, andshow how different roles are distributed in a team,how each role contributes to teamwork, and howcollaboration happens among the roles.1676Table 2: RMSE Comparison of Different Methods on the Elementary CourseAverage Leader K-Means K Worst K Best RI RIC RIC?RIC+K = 1 13.945 16.957 14.212 13.092 20.464 14.982 N/A N/A N/AK = 2 N/A N/A 13.160 13.428 15.591 11.581 N/A N/A N/AK = 3 N/A N/A 12.291 15.460 14.251 9.517 10.486 27.314 10.251Table 3: RMSE Comparison of Different Methods on the Secondary CourseAverage Leader K-Means K Worst K Best RI RIC RIC?RIC+K = 1 12.571 15.611 12.583 17.899 10.886 13.297 N/A N/A N/AK = 2 N/A N/A 12.288 19.268 11.245 10.435 N/A N/A N/AK = 3 N/A N/A 11.218 22.933 14.079 10.143 10.961 24.583 10.4274.4.1 Constraint ExplorationBy incorporating constraints into the role iden-tification process, we expect to guide the modelusing human intuition such that the results will bemore interpretable, although the prediction errormight increase because of the limitation of thesearch space.
We present three alternative pos-sible constrained models here.
The RIC modelemphasizes picking one best member, one worstmember and another generic member, which isachieved by putting one role to S+and one to S?as defined in Equation 2.
RIC+aims at pickingthree best team members who collaborate to makethe best contribution to the team success, achievedby putting three roles into S+.
Similarly, RIC?rewards poorly performing students to contributeto teamwork quality, i.e.
putting all roles into S?.Based on results shown in Table 2 and 3, wefound that RIC+and RIC work similar as RIeven though RI is slightly better.
RIC?givesquite unsatisfying performance which shows thatexamining the behavior of a set of poorly per-forming students is not very helpful in predictingteamwork success.
The comparison of RIC+andRIC?can be shown clearly in Figure 2, whichpresents the behavior representation of each roleidentified by RIC+and RIC?.
Obviously, RIC+produces positive roles that contribute largely tothe teamwork quality across all feature dimen-sions; such behaviors are what we want to en-courage.
Those identified roles are diverse andnot symmetrical because each role achieves peaksat different feature dimensions.
On the contrary,roles identified by RIC?works negatively towardsteamwork quality and they have homogeneousbehavior representation curves.
Therefore, ourconstrained models can provide much interpreta-tion, with a little loss of accuracy compared to RI.4.4.2 Role Assignment InterpretationLeading Role Validation: As a validation, wefound that one of our identified roles has substan-tial overlap with team leaders.
For instance, inthe Elementary course, around 70% of studentswho are assigned to Role 0 are actual leaders forRIC and RIC+models.
On the Secondary course,around 86% students who are in the position ofRole 0 are real team leaders.
When it comesto RIC?, such ratio drops to around 2% for allroles.
This validates the ability of our models inproducing role definitions that make sense.Information Diffusion: Figure 3 compares theinformation diffusion among different identifiedroles of RI, RIC, RIC+and RIC?.
The darkerthe node, the better grade it achieves.
The numberassociated with each role indicates the averagefinal grades (scale 0-100) of all students who areassigned to this role.
The edge represents howmany messages sent from one node to another.The thicker the edge, the more information it con-veys.
From the figure, we found that, RI performssimilarly with RIC and roles in RIC+have muchhigher grades compared to RIC?.
One explana-tion is that RIC actually does not incorporate manyconstraints and is less interpretable compared toRIC+and RIC?.
As shown in (c), RIC+Role 0contributes more information to Role 1 with anaverage of 5.5 messages and to Role 2 with weight6.1.
Role 1 and Role 2 also have many messagescommunicated with others in their team.
However,less communication happens in RIC?roles.
Thiscomparison comes much easier when it comesto each role?s behaviors on different normalizedfeature representations as shown in Figure 2 for1677-0.6-0.4-0.200.20.40.60.81RIC+ role_0 RIC+ role_1 RIC+ role_2 RIC- role_0 RIC- role_1 RIC- role_2-0.6-0.4-0.200.20.40.60.81RIC+ role_0 RIC+ role_1 RIC+ role_2 RIC- role_0 RIC- role_1 RIC- role_2Figure 2: Beahvior Representation of Each Role on the Secondary CourseTypical Behavior Representative PostRIC+Team Building I started a new doc ... Let me know your email if you didn?t get the invite.Positive Great job team!!
Our lesson plan is amazing and I learned so much ...Collaboration We plan to meet on Monday to figure out exactly how to complete the assignment ...Task Management Here?s what I propose: 1) to save time, use ... 2) Tara, do you have plans ... 3)once a lesson plan outline is up, we can each go in and add modifications..RIC?Negative I?m confused.
I answered all the questions ... and I didn?t see ...Strong Subjectivity I like the recycling lesson ... feeling so dumb.. really confused by Google Docs...Negation I?m not able to ... the pictures don?t show up...I don?t understand how to create a link..Table 4: Representative Posts and Corresponding Behavior Feature Comparison on the Secondary CourseRIC+and RIC?models.
It can be concludedthat by incorporating rewarding and penalizingconstraints, our model works effectively in pickingthe behavior profiles we want to encourage andavoid in a teamwork.Behavior Comparison: Table 4 presents sev-eral representative posts and their correspondingbehavior features for our identified roles.
Mostfeatures shown in Table 4 correspond to the peakbehaviors associated with roles in Figure 2, whichis consistent with our previous interpretation.
Forexample, RIC+picks the well performing studentwho adds calmness to the teamwork as indicatedby using positive words and adopting collaborativestrategies.
On the contrary, RIC?reflects a lesscooperative teamwork, such as strong subjectivity,negation and negativity indicated in their posts.In summary, our role identification models pro-vide quite interpretable identified roles as dis-cussed above, as well as accurate prediction ofteamwork quality.
More interpretability can beachieved by incorporating intuitive constraints andsacrificing a bit of accuracy.5 ConclusionIn this work, we propose a role identificationmodel, which iteratively optimizes a team memberrole assignment that can predict the teamworkquality to the utmost extent.
Furthermore, weextend it to a general constrained version that en-ables humans to incorporate external constraints toguide the identification of roles.
The experimentalresults on two MOOCs show that both of ourproposed role identification models can not onlyperform accurate predictions of teamwork quality,but also provide interpretable student role assign-ment results ranging from leading role validationto information diffusion.Even though we have only explored up to 3roles in this work that would enable us to use most1678R0 R2R1(b ) Secondary  RI C4 8 .
6 3 3 3 .
253 9 .
9 7R0R2R1R0R2R1(c) Secondary  RI C + (d) Secondary  RI C -4 4 .
3 24 6 .
114 5 .
3 24 0 .
4 53 4 .
3 43 9 .
9 8R0 R2R1(a) Secondary  RI4 8 .
6 3 3 3 .
253 9 .
7 9Figure 3: Information Diffusion among Rolesof our data, our role identification method is capa-ble to experiment with a larger range of values ofK, such as in the context of Wikipedia (Ferschke etal., 2015).
Furthermore, our model can be directlyapplied to other online collaboration scenarios tohelp identify the roles that contribute to collab-oration, not limited in the context of MOOCs.In the future, we are interested in relaxing theassumptions that people can take only one roleand roles are taken up by only one person andincorporating mixed membership role matchingstrategies into our method.
Furthermore, nonlinearrelationship between roles and performance aswell as the dependencies between roles should beexplored.
Last but not least, we plan to take ad-vantage of our identified roles to provide guidanceand recommendation to those weakly performingteams for better collaboration and engagement inonline teamworks.AcknowledgementThe authors would like to thank Hanxiao Liu,Jingbo Shang, Oliver Ferschke and the anonymousreviewers for their valuable comments and sug-gestions.
This research was funded in part byNSF grant IIS-1320064, an Army Research Labseedling grant, and funding from Google.ReferencesRavindra K. Ahuja, Thomas L. Magnanti, and James B.Orlin.
1993.
Network Flows: Theory, Algorithms,and Applications.
Prentice-Hall, Inc., Upper SaddleRiver, NJ, USA.Edoardo M. Airoldi, David M. Blei, Stephen E. Fien-berg, and Eric P. Xing.
2008.
Mixed membershipstochastic blockmodels.
volume 9, pages 1981?2014.
JMLR.org, June.Aris Anagnostopoulos, Luca Becchetti, CarlosCastillo, Aristides Gionis, and Stefano Leonardi.2010.
Power in unity: Forming teams in large-scalecommunity systems.
In Proceedings of the 19thACM International Conference on Informationand Knowledge Management, CIKM ?10, pages599?608, New York, NY, USA.
ACM.David Bamman, Brendan O?Connor, and Noah A.Smith.
2013.
Learning latent personas of filmcharacters.
In Proceedings of the 51st Annual Meet-ing of the Association for Computational Linguistics(Volume 1: Long Papers), pages 352?361, Sofia,Bulgaria, August.
Association for ComputationalLinguistics.David Bamman, Ted Underwood, and Noah A Smith.2014.
A bayesian mixed effects model of literarycharacter.
In Proceedings of the 52nd Annual Meet-ing of the Association for Computational Linguis-tics, volume 1, pages 370?379.Sumit Bhatia, Prakhar Biyani, and Prasenjit Mitra.2014.
Summarizing online forum discussions ?
candialog acts of individual messages help?
In Pro-ceedings of the 2014 Conference on Empirical Meth-ods in Natural Language Processing (EMNLP),pages 2127?2131, Doha, Qatar, October.
Associa-tion for Computational Linguistics.Anais Cadilhac, Nicholas Asher, Farah Benamara, andAlex Lascarides.
2013.
Grounding strategic con-versation: Using negotiation dialogues to predicttrades in a win-lose game.
In Proceedings of the2013 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natu-ral Language Processing, pages 357?368, Seattle,Washington, USA, October.
Association for Com-putational Linguistics.Oliver Ferschke, Diyi Yang, and Carolyn Ros?e.
2015.A lightly supervised approach to role identificationin wikipedia talk page discussions.Mathilde Forestier, Anna Stavrianou, Julien Velcin, andDjamel A. Zighed.
2012.
Roles in social networks:Methodologies and research issues.
Web Intelli.
andAgent Sys., 10(1):117?133, January.Sebastian Germesin and Theresa Wilson.
2009.Agreement detection in multiparty conversation.
InProceedings of the 2009 International Conferenceon Multimodal Interfaces, ICMI-MLMI ?09, pages7?14, New York, NY, USA.
ACM.1679Kazi Saidul Hasan and Vincent Ng.
2014.
Why areyou taking this stance?
identifying and classifyingreasons in ideological debates.
In Proceedings of the2014 Conference on Empirical Methods in NaturalLanguage Processing (EMNLP), pages 751?762,Doha, Qatar, October.
Association for Computa-tional Linguistics.Arthur E. Hoerl and Robert W. Kennard.
2000.
Ridgeregression: Biased estimation for nonorthogonalproblems.
Technometrics, 42(1):80?86, February.Xia Hu and Huan Liu.
2012.
Social status and roleanalysis of palin?s email network.
In Proceedingsof the 21st International Conference Companion onWorld Wide Web, WWW ?12 Companion, pages531?532, New York, NY, USA.
ACM.Meiqun Hu, Ee-Peng Lim, and Ramayya Krishnan.2009.
Predicting outcome for collaborative featuredarticle nomination in wikipedia.
In Third Inter-national AAAI Conference on Weblogs and SocialMedia.Aniket Kittur and Robert E. Kraut.
2010.
Beyondwikipedia: Coordination and conflict in online pro-duction groups.
In Proceedings of the 2010 ACMConference on Computer Supported CooperativeWork, CSCW ?10, pages 215?224, New York, NY,USA.
ACM.R Meredith Belbin.
2011.
Management teams: Whythey succeed or fail.
Human Resource ManagementInternational Digest, 19(3).Arjun Mukherjee, Vivek Venkataraman, Bing Liu, andSharon Meraz.
2013.
Public dialogue: Analysisof tolerance in online discussions.
In Proceedingsof the 51st Annual Meeting of the Association forComputational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Pa-pers), pages 1680?1690, Sofia, Bulgaria, August.Association for Computational Linguistics.George A Neuman, Stephen H Wagner, and Neil DChristiansen.
1999.
The relationship between work-team personality composition and the job perfor-mance of teams.
Group & Organization Manage-ment, 24(1):28?45.Michael J. Paul.
2012.
Mixed membership markovmodels for unsupervised conversation modeling.
InProceedings of the 2012 Joint Conference on Em-pirical Methods in Natural Language Processingand Computational Natural Language Learning,EMNLP-CoNLL 12, pages 94?104, Stroudsburg,PA, USA.
Association for Computational Linguis-tics.Mario Piergallini, A Seza Do?gru?oz, Phani Gadde,David Adamson, and Carolyn P Ros?e.
2014.
Mod-eling the use of graffiti style features to signal socialrelations within a multi-domain learning paradigm.EACL 2014, page 107.Florian A Potra and Stephen J Wright.
2000.
Interior-point methods.
Journal of Computational and Ap-plied Mathematics, 124(1):281?302.K Ahuja Ravindra, Thomas L Magnanti, and James BOrlin.
1993.
Network flows: theory, algorithms,and applications.Barbara Senior.
1997.
Team roles and team perfor-mance: is there reallya link?
Journal of occu-pational and organizational psychology, 70(3):241?258.Swapna Somasundaran and Janyce Wiebe.
2009.Recognizing stances in online debates.
In Proceed-ings of the Joint Conference of the 47th AnnualMeeting of the ACL and the 4th International JointConference on Natural Language Processing of theAFNLP: Volume 1 - Volume 1, ACL ?09, pages226?234, Stroudsburg, PA, USA.
Association forComputational Linguistics.Yla R Tausczik and James W Pennebaker.
2010.The psychological meaning of words: Liwc andcomputerized text analysis methods.
Journal oflanguage and social psychology, 29(1):24?54.Matt Thomas, Bo Pang, and Lillian Lee.
2006.
Get outthe vote: Determining support or opposition fromcongressional floor-debate transcripts.
In Proceed-ings of the 2006 Conference on Empirical Meth-ods in Natural Language Processing, EMNLP ?06,pages 327?335, Stroudsburg, PA, USA.
Associationfor Computational Linguistics.Marilyn A. Walker, Pranav Anand, Robert Abbott, andRicky Grant.
2012.
Stance classification usingdialogic properties of persuasion.
In Proceedings ofthe 2012 Conference of the North American Chapterof the Association for Computational Linguistics:Human Language Technologies, NAACL HLT ?12,pages 592?596, Stroudsburg, PA, USA.
Associationfor Computational Linguistics.Byron C Wallace, Thomas A Trikalinos, M BartonLaws, Ira B Wilson, and Eugene Charniak.
2013.
Agenerative joint, additive, sequential model of topicsand speech acts in patient-doctor communication.
InEMNLP, pages 1765?1775.Miaomiao Wen, Diyi Yang, and Carolyn PensteinRos?e.
2015.
Virtual teams in massive open onlinecourses.
In Artificial Intelligence in Education.Theresa Wilson, Janyce Wiebe, and Paul Hoffmann.2005.
Recognizing contextual polarity in phrase-level sentiment analysis.
In Proceedings of the con-ference on human language technology and empiri-cal methods in natural language processing, pages347?354.
Association for Computational Linguis-tics.Yuchen Zhao, Guan Wang, Philip S. Yu, Shaobo Liu,and Simon Zhang.
2013.
Inferring social rolesand statuses in social networks.
In Proceedings ofthe 19th ACM SIGKDD International Conference onKnowledge Discovery and Data Mining, KDD ?13,pages 695?703, New York, NY, USA.
ACM.1680
