Proceedings of the Tutorials of the 53rd Annual Meeting of the ACL and the 7th IJCNLP, pages 23?24,Beijing, China, July 26-31, 2015.c?2015 Association for Computational LinguisticsWhat You Need to Know about Chinese for Chinese Language ProcessingChu-Ren HuangThe Hong Kong Polytechnic UniversityHung Hom, Kowloon, Hong Kongchuren.huang@inet.polyu.edu.hk1 IntroductionThe synergy between language sciences and lan-guage technology has been an elusive one for thecomputational linguistics community, especiallywhen dealing with a language other than English.The reasons are two-fold: the lack of an accessi-ble comprehensive and robust account of a specificlanguage so as to allow strategic linking between aprocessing task to linguistic devices, and the lackof successful computational studies taking advan-tage of such links.
With a fast growing numberof available online resources, as well as a rapidlyincreasing number of members of the CL commu-nity who are interested in and/or working on Chi-nese language processing, the time is ripe to takea serious look at how knowledge of Chinese canhelp Chinese language processing.The tutorial will be organized according to thestructure of linguistic knowledge of Chinese, start-ing from the basic building block to the use of Chi-nese in context.
The first part deals with charactersas the basic linguistic unit of Chinese in terms ofphonology, orthography, and basic concepts.
Anontological view of how the Chinese writing sys-tem organizes meaningful content as well as howthis onomasiological decision affects Chinese textprocessing will also be discussed.
The secondpart deals with words and presents basic issues in-volving the definition and identification of wordsin Chinese, especially given the lack of conven-tional marks of word boundaries.
The third partdeals with parts of speech and focuses on def-inition of a few grammatical categories specificto Chinese, as well as distributional properties ofChinese PoS and tagging systems.
The fourthpart deals with sentence and structure, focusing onhow to identify grammatical relations in Chineseas well as a few Chinese-specific constructions.The fifth part deals with how meanings are rep-resented and expressed, especially how differentlinguistic devices (from lexical choice to informa-tion structure) are used to convey different infor-mation.
Lastly, the sixth part deals with the rangesof different varieties of Chinese in the world andthe computational approaches to detect and differ-entiate these varieties.
In each topic, an empiri-cal foundation of linguistics facts are clearly expli-cated with a robust generalization, and the linguis-tic generalization is then accounted for in terms ofits function in the knowledge representation sys-tem.
Lastly this knowledge representation role isthen exploited in terms of the aims of specific lan-guage technology tasks.
In terms of references,in addition to language resources and various rel-evant papers, the tutorial will make reference toHuang and Shi?s (2016) reference grammar for alinguistic description of Chinese.2 Resources?
Huang, Chu-Ren.
2009.
Tagged Chinese Gi-gaword Version 2.0.
Philadelphia: LexicalData Consortium.
University of Pennsylva-nia.
ISBN 1-58563-516-2?
Sinica Corpus: Academia Sinica Bal-anced Corpus for Mandarin Chinese.http://www.sinica.edu.tw/SinicaCorpus?
Sinica BOW: Academia Sinica Bilingual On-tological Wordnet http://BOW.sinica.edu.tw?
Sinica TreeBankhttp://TreeBank.sinica.edu.tw/?
Chinese Wordnet 2005.http://cwn.ling.sinica.edu.tw?
Hantology 2006.http://hantology.ling.sinica.edu.tw3 OutlineThe tutorial will have six components according tothe nature of linguistic knowledge of Chinese: 1)23characters, 2) words, 3) Parts of Speech, 4) Sen-tence and Structure, 5) Meaning: Representationand Expressive, and 6) Variations and Changes.Under each knowledge component, there will be3 to 5 focus areas.
In addition, relevant resourcesand language technology applications will be in-troduced together with the linguistic descriptionor at the end of the lecture sections (for those lan-guage processing applications involving more thanone linguistic issue.)
Overall, two lecture sectionsof 80 minutes each will be given, each contain-ing 5 topical groups (each topical group covers2-3 focus areas described above).
It is estimatedthat each topic group will take about 15 minutes tocover.
Although the 15 minutes will not be enoughfor explication of finer details, participants will beable to access and acquire additional details froma comprehensive list references.The three hour teaching plan is given below.00:00-01:20 Characters, Words, and Parts-of-Speech?
-Component structure of Chinese characters:encoding and ontological issues?
-Writing system and processing of Chinesetexts: myths and facts?
-Definition and identification of words inChinese: with special foci on segmentation,and compounds?
-PoS and tagging in Chinese, with specialfoci on de, adjectives (or verbs), prepositions,and classifiers?
-Related issues and examples in ChineseLanguage processing01:20-01:40: Coffee Break01:40-03:00 Sentence, Meaning, and Variations?
-Aspectual and eventive systems of Chinese?
-Identification of grammatical relations:ba/bei, topic/argument, separable com-pounds and oblique arguments?
-Semantic relations and semantic selection?
-World Chineses: variations and changes andhow to identify them?
-Related issues and examples in ChineseLanguage processing4 InstructorChu-Ren Huang is currently a Chair Professorat the Hong Kong Polytechnic University.
Heis a Fellow of the Hong Kong Academy of theHumanities, a permanent member of the Interna-tional Committee on Computational Linguistics,and President of the Asian Association of Lex-icography.
He currently serves as Chief Editorof the Journal Lingua Sinica, as well as Cam-bridge University Press?
Studies in Natural Lan-guage Processing.
He is an associate editor ofboth Journal of Chinese Linguistics, and Lexicog-raphy.
He has served advisory and/or organizingroles for conferences including ALR, ASIALEX,CLSW, CogALex, COLING, IsCLL, LAW, On-toLex, PACLIC, ROCLING, and SIGHAN.
Chi-nese language resources constructed under his di-rection include the CKIP lexicon and ICG, Sinica,Sinica Treebank, Sinica BOW, Chinese WordS-ketch, Tagged Chinese Gigaword Corpus, Hantol-ogy, Chinese WordNet, and Emotion AnnotatedCorpus.
He is the co-author of a Chinese Refer-ence Grammar (Huang and Shi 2016), and a bookon Chinese Language Processing (Lu, Xue andHuang in preparation).24
