Proceedings of the Tutorials of the 53rd Annual Meeting of the ACL and the 7th IJCNLP, pages 12?15,Beijing, China, July 26-31, 2015. c?2015 Association for Computational LinguisticsCorpus Pattern for Semantic ProcessingPatrick HanksUniversity of Wolverhampton, UKpatrick.w.hanks@gmail.comElisabetta JezekUniversity of Pavia, ITjezek@unipv.itDaisuke KawaharaKyoto University, JPdk@i.kyoto-u.ac.jpOctavian PopescuIBM Research, USo.popescu@us.ibm.com1 IntroductionThis tutorial presents a corpus-driven, pat-tern-based empirical approach to meaningrepresentation and computation.
Patterns intext are everywhere, but techniques for iden-tifying and processing them are still rudi-mentary.
Patterns are not merely syntacticbut syntagmatic: each pattern identifies alexico-semantic clause structure consistingof a predicator (verb or predicative adjective)together with open-ended lexical sets of col-locates in different clause roles (subject, ob-ject, prepositional argument, etc.).
If NLP isto make progress in identifying and pro-cessing text meaning, pattern recognition andcollocational analysis will play an essentialrole, because:Many, if not most meanings, requirethe presence of more than one wordfor their normal realization.
... Pat-terns of co-selection among words,which are much stronger than anydescription has yet allowed for,have a direct connection with mean-ing.
(J. M. Sinclair, 1998).The tutorial presents methods for buildingpatterns on the basis of corpus evidence, us-ing machine learning methods.
It discussessome possible applications of pattern inven-tories and invites discussion of others.
It isintended for an audience with heterogeneouscompetences but with a common interest incorpus linguistics and computational modelsfor meaning-related tasks in NLP.
We reporton the methodologies for building resourcesfor semantic processing and their contribu-tion to NLP tasks.
The goal is to provide theaudience with an operative understanding ofthe methodology used to acquire corpus pat-terns and of their utility in NLP applications.2 OverviewNatural language sentences make use of lex-ical, syntactic, semantic and pragmatic in-formation in order to fulfill their role of con-veying meaning.
Previous research on com-puting the meaning of linguistic expressions- from approaches which consider overt dis-tributional information on words to deep se-mantic ones, based on first order and lambdacalculus representations - has highlightedtwo major issues: (1) the appropriate level offormalization for meaning representationcannot be founded only on premises derivedfrom prior experience, (2) the lack of large-scale annotated corpora which combine dif-ferent levels of semantic annotation hindersthe development of machine-learning appli-cations.
In particular, in the framework ofbig data analytics for semantically pro-cessing large corpora, these two issues mustbe addressed.The regular structure of normal clauses canbe used as a basis in order to learn the rulesthat lie behind recurrent meaningful con-structs in natural language.
It has beenshown (Hanks&Pustejovsky 2004,Pustejovsky&Jezek 2008, Popescu&Magnini2007, Popescu 2013, Kawahara et al.
2014)12that it is possible to identify and to learn cor-pus patterns that encode the information thataccounts for the senses of the verb and itsarguments in the context.
These patterns linkthe syntactic structure of clauses and the se-mantic types of argument fillers via the rolethat each of these play in the disambiguationof the clause as a whole.
With regard to ir-regularities, there are quite a few clauses in acorpus where these patterns do not seem tomatch the text, because of the apparent in-compatibility between the actual and the ex-pected semantic types of the arguments (Jez-ek&Hanks 2010, Hanks 2012).
However, itis possible to build statistical models thatsimultaneously generate both the regular andthe innovative representation of a clause.Available solutions developed up to nowrange from supervised to totally unsuper-vised approaches.
The patterns obtained en-code the necessary information for handlingthe meaning of each word individually aswell as that of the clause as a whole.
As suchthey are instrumental in building better lan-guage models (Dligach&Palmer 2011).
Inthe contexts matched by such patterns, anyword is unequivocally disambiguated.
Thesemantic types used in pattern representationplay a discriminative role, therefore the pat-terns are sense discriminative and as suchthey can be used in word sense disambigua-tion and other meaning-related tasks (seeamong others Pustejovsky et al.
2004, Cum-by&Roth 2003, Popescu&Magnini 2007,Pustejovsky et al.
2010, Popescu et al.
2014).Also, the meaning of a pattern as a whole isexpressed as a set of basic implicatures.
Theimplicatures are instrumental in textual en-tailment, semantic similarity and paraphras-ing generation (Popescu et al.
2011, Nico-lae&Popescu 2013, Vo et.
al 2014).
Depend-ing on the proposed application, the implica-tures associated with a pattern may be ex-pressed in any of a wide variety of otherways, e.g.
as a translation into another lan-guage or as a synonym set.
The automaticaligning of the set of patterns of two lan-guages via their shared semantic types isused in meaning-preserving translation tasks(Popescu&Jezek 2013).The relatively recent research on corpus datahas shown that intermediate text representa-tions (ITRs), built in a bottom-up mannerfrom corpus examples towards a complexrepresentation of clauses, play an importantrole in dealing with the meaning disambigua-tion problem.
ITRs offer an important degreeof freedom in finding the right cut betweenvarious levels of semantic information.Large-scale corpus-driven lexical analysisleads to two apparently contradictory con-clusions.
On the one hand, the regularities ofword use (valencies, collocations) are moreregular than what most pre-corpus linguistswould have predicted.
On the other hand, theirregularities are more irregular.
In particu-lar, verb usage in language displays a con-tinuous blend between regular constructswith clearly distinct senses and new and in-novative usages.
The Theory of Norms andExploitations (Hanks 2013) maintains thatlanguage exhibits mainly a rule-governedbehavior, but argues that there is not just onemonolithic system of rules.
Instead, there aretwo interactive sets of rules: 1) Norms: a setof rules for using words normally and idio-matically: these are the rules of grammar;they account for 70%-90% of all utterances -depending on the type of the verb, the topic,and the domain.
However, they do not ac-count for linguistic creativity, nor for chang-es in word meaning; 2) Exploitation rules,which account for creativity and innovativeusage (about 10%-30% of corpus examples).Exploitation rules also account for phenom-ena such as meaning shift.
Pattern Dictionar-ies are resources based on Corpus PatternAnalysis (CPA).
They contains examples foreach category for a large number of Englishand Italian verbs and are available athttp://pdev.org.uk/ (Hanks 2004), and athttp://tpas.fbk.eu/resource (Jezek et al.2014).The corpus-pattern methodology is designedto offer a viable solution to meaning repre-sentation.
The techniques we present arewidely applicable in NLP and they deal effi-ciently with data sparseness and open do-main expression of semantic relationships.13The tutorial is divided into three main parts,which are strongly interconnected: (A)Building Corpus Patterns via the Theory ofNorms and Exploitations, (B) Inducing Se-mantic Types and Semantic Task OrientedOntologies, and (C) Machine Learning andApplications of Corpus Patterns.3 Outline3.1 Corpus, Language Usage and Computa-ble Semantic Properties of Verb PhrasessectionBasic Computational Semantic Con-ceptsTheory of Norm and Exploitation ofLanguage UsageCorpus Pattern Analysis in  Sketch En-gineSense Discriminative Patterns3.2   Semantic Types and OntologiesArgument StructuresFrames and Semantic TypesInducing Semantic TypesDiscriminative Patterns3.3 Statistical Models for Corpus PatternRecognition and Extraction.
NLP Appli-cationsFinite State Markov ChainsNaive Bayesian and Gaussian RandomFields for Conditional Probabilities overSemantic TypesLatent Dirichlet Analysis for Unsuper-vised Pattern ExtractionProbably Approximately Correct andStatistical Query ModelJoint Source Channel Model for Recog-nition of Norm and ExploitationTextual Entailment, Paraphrase Gener-ation and Textual Similarity with Cor-pus Patterns4 TutorsPatrick Hanks is Professor in Lexicographyat the Research Institute of Information andLanguage Processing at the University ofWolverhampton.
He is also a visiting profes-sor at the Bristol Centre for Linguistics(University of the West of England).
Hestudied English Language and Literature atOxford and was awarded a PhD in Informat-ics at the Masaryk University in Brno, CzechRepublic.
In the 1980s he was the managingeditor of Cobuild, an innovative corpus-based dictionary compiled at the Universityof Birmingham.
In 1989-90 he co-authoredwith Ken Church and others a series of pa-pers on statistical approaches to lexical anal-ysis.
For ten years (1990?2000) he was chiefeditor of Current English Dictionaries at Ox-ford University Press.
He is the author ofLexical Analysis: Norms and Exploitations(MIT Press, 2013), which presents a newtheory of word meaning and language inuse.
He is a consultant on lexicographicalmethodology and definition to several insti-tutions throughout Europe, including OxfordUniversity Press, and is a frequent invitedplenary speaker at international conferenceson lexicography, corpus linguistics, figura-tive language, onomastics, and phraseology.Elisabetta Jezek has been teaching Syntaxand Semantics and Applied Linguistics at theUniversity of Pavia since 2001.
Her researchinterests and areas of expertise are lexicalsemantics, verb classification, theory of Ar-gument Structure, event structure in syntaxand semantics, corpus annotation, computa-tional Lexicography.Daisuke Kawahara is an Associate Profes-sor at Kyoto University.
He is an expert inthe areas of parsing, knowledge acquisitionand information analysis.
He teaches gradu-14ate classes in natural language processing.His current work is focused on automaticinduction of semantic frames and semanticparsing, verb polysemic classes, verb sensedisambiguation, and automatic induction ofsemantic frames.Octavian Popescu is a researcher at IBM T.J. Watson Research Center, working oncomputational semantics with focus on cor-pus patterns for question answering, textualentailment and paraphrasing.
He taught vari-ous NLP graduate courses in computationalsemantics at Trento University (IT), Colora-do University at Boulder (US) and Universi-ty of Bucharest (RO).ReferencesC.
Cumby and D. Roth  "On Kernel Methods forRelational Learning", in Proceedings of  ICML2003, Washington 2003D.
Dligach and M. Palmer: "Good Seed Makes aGood Crop: Accelerating Active Learning UsingLanguage Modeling", in Proceedings of  ACL,Oregon, 2011P.
Hanks, ?Corpus Pattern Analysis?.
In Wil-liams G. and S. Vessier (eds) Proceedings of theXI Euralex International Congress, Lorient, Uni-versit?
de Bretagne-Sud, 2004P.
Hanks  and J. Pustejovsky.
"Common SenseAbout Word Meaning:Sense in Context", in Pro-ceedings of the TSD, Volume 3206, 2004.P.
Hanks "How People use words to make Mean-ings.
Semantic Types meet Valencies".
In A.Bulton and J. Thomas (eds.)
Input, Process andProduct: Developments in Teaching and Lan-guage Corpora.
Masaryk University Press, 2012P.
Hanks "Lexical Analysis: Norms and Exploi-tations.".
MITPress 2013E.
Jezek and P. Hanks, ?What lexical sets tell usabout conceptual categories", In Lexis, E-Journalin English Lexicology, 4, 7-22, 2010.E.
Jezek, B. Magnini, A. Feltracco, A. Bianchini,O.
Popescu "T-PAS; A resource of Typed Pred-icate Argument Structures for linguistic analysisand semantic processing", in Proceedings ofLREC, Reykjavik 2014D.
Kawahara, D. Pederson, O. Popescu, M.Palmer 2014.
"Inducing Example-based Seman-tic Frames from a Massive Amount of Verb Us-es", in Proceedings of the EACL, Gothenburg,2014V.
Niculae and O. Popescu, "Determining is-arelationships for Textual Entailment", in  Prceed-ings of JSSP , Trento, 2013O.
Popescu, B. Magnini ?Sense DiscriminativePatterns for Word Sense Disambiguation?, inProceedings of Semantic Content Acquisitionand Representation, NODALIDA, Tartu, 2007.O.
Popescu, E. Cabrio, B. Magnini Journal Pro-ceedings of the IJCAI Workshop Learning byReasoning and its Applications in IntelligentQuestion-Answering, Barcelona 2011O.
Popescu , E. Jezek.
"Pattern Based Transla-tion", in Proceedings of Tralogy-II, Paris 2013O.
Popescu.
"Learning Corpus Pattern with Fi-nite State Automata", in Proceedings of IWSC,Berlin,  2013.O.
Popescu, P. Hanks, M. Palmer, "MappingCPA onto Ontonotes Senses", in Proceedings ofLREC, Reykjavik, 2014J.
Pustejovsky, P. Hanks, and A.
Rumshisky.
"Sense in Context", in Proceedings of COLING2004, Geneva, 2004J.
Pustejovsky, E. Jezek ?Semantic Coercion inLanguage: Beyond Distributional Analysis", Ital-ian Journal of Linguistics 20, 1, 181-214, 2008.J.
M.Sinclair ?The Lexical Item?, in E.
WEigand(ed.)
Contrastive Lexical Semantics.
Benjamins,1998N.
Vo, O. Popescu, T. Caselli, "FBK-TR: SVMfor Semantic Relatedness and Corpus Patternsfor RTE", in Proceedings SemEval, Dublin, 201415
