Proceedings of the 54th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics, pages 2154?2163,Berlin, Germany, August 7-12, 2016.c?2016 Association for Computational LinguisticsUnravelling Names of Fictional CharactersKaterina PapantoniouInstitute of ComputerScience, FORTHHeraklion, Greecepapanton@ics.forth.grStasinos KonstantopoulosInstitute of Informatics &Telecommunications, NCSR ?Demokritos?Ag.
Paraskevi 153 10, Athens, Greecekonstant@iit.demokritos.grAbstractIn this paper we explore the correlation be-tween the sound of words and their mean-ing, by testing if the polarity (?good guy?or ?bad guy?)
of a character?s role in awork of fiction can be predicted by thename of the character in the absence ofany other context.
Our approach is basedon phonological and other features pro-posed in prior theoretical studies of fic-tional names.
These features are used toconstruct a predictive model over a man-ually annotated corpus of characters frommotion pictures.
By experimenting withdifferent mixtures of features, we identifyphonological features as being the mostdiscriminative by comparison to social andother types of features, and we delveinto a discussion of specific phonologicaland phonotactic indicators of a character?srole?s polarity.1 IntroductionCould it be possible for fictional characters?
namessuch as ?Dr.
No?
and ?Hannibal Lecter?
to be at-tributed to positive characters whereas names suchas ?Jane Eyre?
and ?Mary Poppins?
to negativeones?
Could someone guess who is the hero andwho is the competitor based only on the name ofthe character and what would be the factors thatcontribute to such intuition?
Literary theory sug-gests that it should be possible, because fictionalcharacter names function as expressions of expe-rience, ethos, teleology, values, culture, ideology,and attitudes of the character.However, work in literary theory, psychology,linguistics and philosophy has studied fictionalnames by analysing individual works or smallclusters of closely related works, such as those of aparticular author.
By contrast, we apply tools fromcomputational linguistics at a larger scale aimingto identify more general patterns that are not tiedto any specific creator?s idiosyncrasies and prefer-ences; in the hope that extracting such patterns canprovide valuable insights about how the sound ofnames and, more generally, words correlates withtheir meaning.At the core of our approach is the idea thatthe names of fictional characters follow (possi-bly subconsciously) a perception of what a posi-tive or a negative name ought to sound like that isshared between the creator and the audience.
Nat-urally the personal preferences or experiences ofthe creator might add noise, but fictional charac-ters?
names will at least not suffer (or suffer less)from the systematic cultural bias bound to exist inreal persons?
names.In the remainder of this paper, we first presentthe relevant background, including both theoreti-cal work and computational work relevant to peo-ples?
names (Section 2).
Based on this theoreticalwork, we then proceed to formulate a set of fea-tures that can be computationally extracted fromnames, and which we hypothesise to be discrim-inative enough to allow for the construction of amodel that accurately predicts whether a charac-ter plays a positive or negative role in a work offiction (Section 3).
In order to test this hypoth-esis, we constructed a corpus of characters frompopular English-language motion pictures.
Afterdescribing corpus construction and presenting re-sults (Section 4), we proceed to discuss these re-sults (Section 5) and conclude (Section 6).2 Background2.1 OnomasticsThe procedure of naming an individual, a locationor an object is of particular importance and serves2154purposes beyond the obvious purpose of referringto distinct entities.
Characteristics such as place oforigin, gender, and socioeconomic status can of-ten be guessed from the name or nickname thathas been attributed to an individual.
Onomastics,the study of the origin, history, and use of propernames has attracted scholarly attention as early asantiquity and Plato?s ?Cratylos?
(Hajd?u, 1980).In fiction and art, in particular, names are cho-sen or invented without having to follow the nam-ing conventions that are common in many cultures.This allows creators to apply other criteria in se-lecting a name for their characters, one of whichbeing the intuitions and preconceptions about thecharacter that the name alone implies to the au-dience.
Black and Wilcox (2011) note that writ-ers take informed and careful decisions when at-tributing names to their characters.
Specifically,while care is taken to have names that are easilyidentifiable and phonologically attractive, or thatare important for personal reasons, these are notthe only considerations: names are chosen so thatthey match the personality, the past, and the cul-tural background of a character.According to Algeo (2010) behind each namelies a story while Ashley (2003) suggests that a lit-erary name must be treated as a small poem withall the wealth of information that implies.
Markey(1982) and Nicolaisen (2008) raised concerns onwhether onomastics can be applied to names inart given the different functional roles of names aswell as their intrinsic characteristics, namely sen-sitivity and creativity.
?Redende namen?
(signifi-cant names) is a widespread theory that seeks therelationship between name and form (Rudnyckyj,1959).
According to this theory, there is a closerelationship between the form of a name and itsrole.
This consideration is still prevalent to date asshown by Chen (2008) in her analysis of names incomic books, where names transparently conveythe intentions of the creator for the role of eachcharacter.
Another concern is whether the studyof literary names should be examined individuallyfor each creative work or if generalizations can bemade (Butler, 2013).
However, the scope of moststudies is limited to individual projects or creators,creating an opportunity for computational meth-ods that can identify generalizations and patternsacross larger bodies of literary work than what ismanually feasible.2.2 Related WorkAlthough serving radically different purposes andapplications than our investigation, various meth-ods for the computational analysis of proper nounshave been developed in natural language process-ing.
Without a doubt, some of the oldest and mostmature technologies that exploit the properties ofproper nouns are those addressing named entityrecognition and categorization (NERC).
In this di-rection, there is a recently ongoing effort for theextension of NERC tools so that they cover theneeds of literary texts (Borin et al, 2007; Volk etal., 2009; Kokkinakis and Malm, 2011).Moving beyond recognition, effort has beenmade to explore characteristics and relationshipsof literary characters (Nastase et al, 2007).
Typi-cally, however, these efforts take advantage of thecontext, and very little work tries to extract char-acteristics of literary characters from their namesalone.
One example is the application of lan-guage identification methods in order to extractthe cultural background of proper names (Kon-stantopoulos, 2007; Bhargava and Kondrak, 2010;Florou and Konstantopoulos, 2011).
This workshowed that people?s names in isolation are moreamenable to language identification than commonnouns.
Konstantopoulos (2007), in particular, re-ports inconclusive results at pinpointing the dis-criminative features that are present in people?snames but not in other words.Another relatively recent and related researchdirection that does not focus on proper nouns in-vestigates elements of euphony mostly by examin-ing phonetic devices.
The focus is to identify howthe sound of words can foster its effectiveness interms of persuasion (Guerini et al, 2015) or mem-orability (Danescu-Niculescu-Mizil et al, 2012).3 ApproachThese earlier attempts relied on the examinationof predictive models of n-grams in order to iden-tify the n-grams that are the best discriminants.The aim was that by inspecting these most dis-criminative n-grams, meaningful patterns wouldemerge and serve as the vehicle for formulatinghypotheses about the correlation between whatnames sound like and the cultural background ofthe persons bearing them.This approaches largely ignored the backgroundin onomastics and literary research.
By contrast,we exploit this prior body of theoretical work2155ID Feature Category Type1 words count phonological numeric2 vowels count phonological numeric3 consonants count phonological numeric4 plosives count phonological numeric5 fricatives count phonological numeric6 affricates count phonological numeric7 nasals count phonological numeric8 vowel start phonological categorical9 vowel end phonological categorical10 voice start phonological categorical11 subsequentletters countphonological categorical12 low vowel phonological categorical13 high vowel phonological categorical14 definite article lexical form categorical15 consonance poetic numeric16 assonance poetic numeric17 alliteration poetic numeric18 name and title re-semblancedomain numeric19 credit index domain numeric20 genre domain categorical21 sentimentsoundex wordnetemotions numeric22 sentiment leven-shtein wordnetemotions numeric23 gender social categorical24 foreign suffix social categorical25 first name fre-quencysocial numeric26 last name fre-quencysocial numeric27 full name fre-quencysocial numeric28 honor social categoricalTable 1: List of featuresto define more sophisticated features that directlycorrespond to theoretical hypotheses.
Our empir-ical experiments are now aimed at identifying thefeatures (and thus hypotheses) that are the mostdiscriminative, rather than at hoping that a co-herent hypothesis can be formulated by observingpatterns in n-gram features.In the remainder of this section, we will presentthese hypotheses and the machine-extracted fea-tures that reflect them.
The features are also col-lected in Table 1.3.1 EmotionsHypothesis 1 The (positive or negative) polarityof the sentiment that a character?s name evokes isassociated with the polarity of the character?s role.The understanding of how the language trans-mits emotions has attracted significant research at-tention in the field of Computational Linguistics.Most of the relevant literature is directed towardscalculating sentiment for units at the document orsentence level.
These works are usually boostedby semantic dictionaries that provide informationabout the emotional hue of concepts such as theLinguistic Inquiry and Word Count (LIWC) (Pen-nebaker et al, 2001), the Harvard General Inquirer(Stone et al, 1966), the WordNet Affect (Strappa-rava and Valitutti, 2004) and SentiWordNet (Esuliand Sebastiani, 2006).
In our task, the absenceof context and the inherent arbitrariness in nam-ing (even in fictional names) increases the diffi-culty in conveying emotional quality to names.More specifically, the intriguing part was to as-sociate fictional names with concepts from a se-mantic sentiment resource in order to approximatea sentiment value.
To achieve this we used Sen-tiWordNet: a linguistic resource that has derivedfrom the annotation of WordNet synsets accord-ing to the estimated degree of positive, negativeor neutral hue.
The overall valence for a givenname is calculated as the sum of the valence ofits elements (first name, surname).
The valence ofeach name element is the average valence of allSentiWordNet concepts that are associated with it.To associate a name element and a SentiWordNetconcept we used the Soundex phonetic distanceand the Levenshtein lexicographic distance (Lev-enshtein, 1966).
A heuristic threshold is used todecide whether a name and a SentiWordNet con-cept are associated.More formally, the valence val(n) of a name ncomprising name elements eiis calculated as fol-lows:val(ei) =?u?assS(ei)swn(u) +?v?assL(ei)swn(v)|assS(ei)|+ |assL(ei)|val(n) =?ival(ei)where assS(?)
is the set of SentiWordNet con-cepts that are Soundex-associated with the givenname element, assL(?)
the set of SentiWordNetconcepts that are Levenshtein-associated with thegiven name element, and swn(?)
the valence as-signed to the given concept by SentiWordNet.3.2 Stylistic and poetic featuresHypothesis 2 Assuming Ashley?s (2003) and But-ler?s (2013) position that ?a name can be a whole?poem?
in as little as a single word?
we assumethat stylistic features usually found in poems canbe extracted from the names of fictional charac-2156ters, and that such features correlate with the po-larity of their roles.The first quantitative analysis efforts of the po-etic style can be found in the 1940s and in thestudy of the poet and literary critic JosephineMiles (1946; 1967) where she studied the featuresof poems over time.
Despite the great contributionof this work and others that followed, the creationof a framework for quantitative poetic style analy-sis remained limited to a small number of poemsand much of the work was done manually.
Thework of Kaplan and Blei (2007) is an attempt toautomate and analyze large volumes of poems ex-ploring phonological, spelling and syntax features.For our work, we identified the following poeticdevices that can be applied to isolated names:?
Alliteration: a stylistic literary device iden-tified by the repeated sound of the first con-sonant in a series of multiple words, or therepetition of the same sounds of the samekinds of sounds at the beginning of words orin stressed syllables of a phrase.Examples: Peter Parker, Peter Pan?
Consonance: a poetic device characterizedby the repetition of the same consonant twoor more times in short succession.Examples: Lillian Hellman, FreddyKrueger, Hannibal Lecter, Kristen Parker?
Assonance: a poetic device characterized bythe repetition of the same vowel two or moretimes in short succession.Examples: Bobbie Ritchie3.3 Phonological featuresHypothesis 3 The presence of specific phonolog-ical features can reveal evidence of the role of acharacter in an artistic artifact.Linguistic theory widely adopts the concept ofarbitrary relationship between the signifier andthe signified (de Saussure, 1916 1983; Jakobson,1965).
However, an increasing volume of worksin various fields investigates the existence of non-arbitrary relations between phonological represen-tation and semantics, a phenomenon known asphonological iconicity.
Standing from the side ofComputational Linguistics and with the intuitionthat in fictional names the correlation between aword?s form and the emotion it expresses will bestronger, we examined a wide range of phonology-related features, shown in Table 1.
It should benoted that these features are extracted from thephonetic representation of names derived by ap-plying the spelling-to-phoneme module of the es-peak speech synthesizer.13.4 Sociolinguistic featuresHypothesis 4 We hypothesize that social aspectsof names ?
such as frequency of use or use offoreign names in a given environment ?
can re-late to role of a fictional character.
For instance,a ?girl next door?
role is more likely to be as-signed a very popular female name than a namethat sounds hostile or foreign.The frequency of names in U.S.A was calculatedbased on the Social Security Death Index (SSDI),a publicly available database that records deaths ofU.S.A citizens since 1936.2The same dataset wasalso used to build a model for recognizing foreign-looking names.
More specifically, we trained n-gram language models of order 2?5 against thedataset for both orthographic and phonetic repre-sentation using the berkeleylm library (Pauls andKlein, 2011).
We then heuristically defined athreshold that correlates well with foreign-lookingsuffixes.
Analogously with the name frequencywe extract the gender of each name using a babynames dataset that includes gender information.3For unisex names the prevalent gender was picked.Finally, honorific titles (e.g.
Professor, Phd, Mr,Mrs etc.)
were also extracted from names.
Hon-orific titles are intriguing due to their ambiguousmeaning since they can express respect and ironyin different contexts.3.5 Domain featuresHypothesis 5 We pursued indications to check ifdomain-related features such as the appearancetime of a character in a movie, the movie title orthe movie genre is associated (correlates) with theproblem under study.In this category lies the featuresameastitlesince anyone with a quick glance in a list offilms would notice that a fictional name oftenconsists of, or is the part of, the movie title,as in, There?s Something about Mary, Hannibal,Thelma & Louise, Rocky, etc.
On IMDB char-acter names are presented in the form of a list in1Please cf.
http://espeak.sourceforge.net2Please cf.
https://archive.org/details/DeathMasterFile3Specifically, we used https://www.ssa.gov/oact/babynames/state/index.html2157descending order based on screen credits.
In thefeaturecreditindexwe want to check if the namingprocess is more assiduous for the roles of protag-onists based on this list.
In the same direction, weexamine the featuregenrefor a possible correla-tion between the role of a character and the genreof a film.4 Experiments and Results4.1 Data Collection and AnnotationIn order to validate our approach, we first need acorpus of names of fictional characters, annotatedwith the polarity of their role.
As such a resourcedoes not exist to the best of our knowledge, wehave created it for the purposes of the work de-scribed here.Our decision to use motion pictures rather thanother fictional work is motivated by the relativeease of finding annotators familiar with the plotof these works, so that we could get reliable an-notations of the polarity of the leading roles.
Wecompiled a list of 409 movies based on the follow-ing criteria:?
That they are widely known films, coveringall genres of film production.
We automat-ically crosschecked if the candidate moviesare included in DBPedia4and YAGO5, asthese are indicators that the films are knownto the general public.?
That they have received some award or arepositively evaluated by users (i.e., have anIMDB rating of 5.0 or higher).
The under-lying assumption is that this criterion selectsmajor productions where care has been givento even the most minute detail, including thenames of the major characters and what thesenames connote to the audience.?
That they are recent productions, so that an-notators can easily recall the plot and thecharacters.We then asked volunteers to select any moviefrom the list that they where very familiar with,and to assign one of positive, negative or neutralto the top-most characters in the credits list, work-ing only as far down the credits list as they feltconfident to.
The three categories were defined asfollows in the annotation guidelines:4http://wiki.dbpedia.org5http://www.mpi-inf.mpg.de/yagoFigure 1: Character annotation tool?
Positive: when the role of the character in theplot left a positive impression on you whenyou saw the movie.?
Negative: when the role of a character left anegative impression on you when you saw themovie.?
Neutral: when the role of the character is im-portant for the plot, but you are in doubt orcannot recall whether it was a positive or anegative role.Neutral tags are ignored in our experiments.
Theywere foreseen only to allow annotators to skipcharacters and still have a sense of accomplish-ment, so that they only make choices that they areconfident with.We used the Hypothes.is6open source annota-tion application.
The annotation was carried outby having volunteers install the Hypothes.is Webbrowser extension and then visit the IMDB7pageof any of the movies on our list (direct links wereprovided to them in the guidelines).
IMDB waschosen due to its popularity, so that annotatorswould already be familiar with the online environ-ment.
The annotators tagged the character namesdirectly on the IMDB page and the annotationswhere collected for us by Hypothes.is (Figure 1).Eight annotators participated in the procedureand provided 1102 positive and 434 negative tagsfor characters of 202 movies, out of the 409movies in the original list.
Table 2 gives the an-notation distribution per movie genre.The reliability of the annotated collection bymeans of inter-rater agreement was also measured.For this purpose, various standard agreement mea-sures (Meyer et al, 2014) were calculated, allshowing very high agreement among the annota-tors (Table 3).
This demonstrates that the annota-6https://hypothes.is7http://www.imdb.com2158Original ResampledPos Neg Pos negAction 262 107 244 102Adventure 126 63 133 62Animation 73 22 63 27Biography 28 6 39 8Comedy 78 25 23 21Crime 68 25 81 18Drama 81 40 76 32Horror 16 12 28 13Musical 0 0 0 0Mystery 20 13 26 17Sci-Fi 2 0 2 0Thriller 0 0 0 0Western 1 2 3 2Sum 755/315 768/302Table 2: Number of annotations per genre beforeand after resamplingMeasure ValuePercentage Agreement 0.963Hubert Kappa Agreement 0.980Fleiss Kappa Agreement 0.973Krippendorff Alpha Agreement 0.979Table 3: Inter-annotator agreementtion task is well-formulated, but does not guaran-tee that our classification task is consistent, sincethe latter will use different information than thatused by the annotators.
That is to say, the an-notators had access to their understanding of themovies?
plot to carry out the task, whereas ourclassification task will be performed over the char-acters?
names alone.The collection is publicly available, includingthe guidelines and instructions to the annotators,the source code for the annotation tool, and thesource code for the tool that compiles Weka ARFFfiles from the JSON output of the annotation tool.84.2 Experimental DesignThe experimental design consisted of an iteratedapproach performing experiments with differentsets of features.
This process was driven by apreliminary chi-squared analysis in order to ex-ploit feature significance.
The algorithms that areused for the experiments are Naive Bayes and J488https://bitbucket.org/dataengineering/fictionalnamesFigure 2: Learning curve for the number of in-stancesAll Without domainNB J48 NB J48Recall 0.723 0.824 0.718 0.803Prec.
0.731 0.822 0.515 0.801F-score 0.618 0.823 0.6 0.802Table 4: Comparison of Naive Bayes and J48(Salzberg, 1994) decision trees.
Each experimentis done using a 10-fold cross validation on theavailable data, using a confidence factor of 0.25for post-pruning.
For all the experiments we usedthe Weka toolkit (Hall et al, 2009).
Due to the im-balance of our dataset in favor of positive classes(see Table 2), we sub-sampled the dataset main-taining the initial genre distribution.
We also ap-plied principal component analysis (PCA) in or-der to guarantee the independence of the classi-fication features, as required by the Naive Bayesalgorithm.
To explore the behavior of the algo-rithms to the change of trained data we generatedthe learning curves shown in Figure 2.
In bothcases the learning curves are well-behaved sincethe error rate grows monotonically as the trainingset shrinks.
However, the precision, recall, and F-scores achieved by J48 are significantly better thatthose of Naive Bayes (Table 4).This preliminary experiment led us to use J48for the main experiment, where we try differentfeatures in order to understand which are the mostdiscriminative ones.
These results are collected inTable 5 and discussed immediately below.5 Discussion of ResultsA first observation that can be easily made is thatthe domain features are good discriminants.
Asthese features exploit information such as credit-2159Rec.
Prec.
F-scoreWithout domain features 0.803 0.801 0.802Only domain features 0.725 0.699 0.667Only phonological features 0.790 0.786 0.787Without poetic features 0.836 0.832 0.833Without consonance feature 0.823 0.820 0.821Without emotions features 0.814 0.810 0.811Without phonological features 0.798 0.792 0.793Without social features 0.807 0.803 0.804All features 0.824 0.822 0.823Table 5: Performance of J48 for different feature settingsMost frequent in positive charactersPhonemen-gramExamples/lI/ Ned Alleyn (Shakespeare in Love)/an/ Anouk Rocher (Chocolat)/aI/ Eliza Doolittle (My Fair Lady)/nI/ Linguini (Ratatouille)/Ist/ Kevin McCallister (Home Alone)/?
@U/ Frodo (The Lord of the Rings)/and/ Dylan Sanders (Charlie?s Angels)/st@/ C.C.
Baxter (The Apartment)Most frequent in negative charactersPhonemen-gramExamples/@n/ Tom Buchanan (The Great Gatsby)/@U/ Iago (Aladdin)/t@/ Norrington (Pirates of the Caribbean)/?I/ Tom Ripley (The Talented Mr. Ripley)/m@n/ Norman Bates (Psycho)/mIs/ Mystique (X-Men)/kt@/ Hannibal Lecter (Hannibal)Table 6: Frequent phoneme {2,3}-gramsing order that is outside the scope of our hypothe-ses, there were expected to be good discriminantsand are included for comparison only.By comparing the performance of all features (F= 82%), domain-only features (F = 68%), and all-except-domain features (F = 80%), we can imme-diately understand that our name-intrinsic featuresare better discriminants than domain features; infact, name-intrinsic features not just better thandomain features, they are by themselves almost asgood as domain and name-intrinsic features com-bined.
This is a significant finding, as it vali-dates our core hypothesis that there is a correla-tion between what fictional character names lookand sound like and the role they play in the plot ofthe fictional work they appear in.We will now proceed to look in more detail intothe different categories of features used, in order togain further insights about specific discriminants.5.1 Phonological FeaturesThe phonological features are important separa-tion criteria as evidenced by the drop in perfor-mance when they are excluded from the experi-mental setup (Table 5).
Specifically, using all fea-tures except phonological features is equivalent tousing phonological features alone (about F = 79%in both cases) and slightly worse that using allname-intrinsic features (about F = 80%).
By com-parison, removing any other category increasesperformance, leading us to believe that all otherfeatures are actually adding noise (rather than dis-criminatory power) to the feature space.In order to delve more into this category of fea-tures, we proceeded with an n-gram analysis (oforder 1 through 4) to look for correlations betweenphonemes.
The results clearly demonstrated thepositive effect of the number of vowels (normal-ized by the length of the utterance) to the posi-tive category.
As far as the consonants are con-cerned, voiced (e.g.
/2/, /g/, /d/, /w/) seem torelate more to the negative class.
Table 7 summa-rizes a more fine-grained analysis for the conso-nants based on their categorization.The environment plays an important role, withspecific combinations showing tendencies that arenot observed with isolated phonemes.
For ex-ample, diphoneme /an/ relates to positive classwhile /@n/ to negative.
Table 6 lists some frequentphoneme 2- and 3-gram examples.
The position ofeach phoneme also seems to play an crucial role2160Phonemes Class/p/, /b/ (bilabial plosive) P/l/ (alveolar lateral) P/f/, /v/ (labiodental africative) N/k/, /g/ (velar plosive) N/t/, /d/ (alveolar plosive) N/dZ/, /tS/ (affricate) N/m/, /n/ (nasal) N/?/ (alveolar retroflex) NTable 7: Consonants behaviorin the classification task.
Specifically, we note thatstarting with a vowel or a consonant are amongthe most discriminating features.
These observa-tions are consistent to a great extent with work inpsychology and literary theory that studied phono-logical iconicity for common words (Nastase etal., 2007; Auracher et al, 2011; Schmidtke et al,2014).Some contradictory conclusions in these worksare attributed by researchers to the methodologiesapplied, while at the same time concerns are raisedwhether such methodologies can inductively leadto cross-language and general conclusions (Au-racher et al, 2011).
Table 8 summarizes some ofthe outcomes of these works.5.2 Emotion and AffectThe analysis showed that the features that calcu-late the emotional load of fictional names basedon SentiWordNet contribute to the classificationtask.
However, we believe that there is still roomfor improvement for the performance of this fea-ture mainly towards the optimization of the selec-tion threshold in order to reduce the degree of falsepositive matches as well as the addition of morelexical resources for example WordNet Affect orLIWC.5.3 Social FeaturesThe annual publication It?s a Man?s (Celluloid)World examines the representation of female char-acters every year.
According to its 2015 results(Lauzen, 2015), gender stereotypes were abundantwith female characters being younger than theirmale counterparts and more likely to have pro-social goals including supporting and helping oth-ers.
This bias makes the gender feature discrimi-native, but in a way that is not linguistically inter-esting: female characters are simply related to theReference DescriptionTaylorand Taylor(1965)evidence that pleasantness re-lations are language specificFonagy(1961)sonorants (e.g., /l/,/m/) morecommon in tender poems,plosives (e.g., /k/,/t/) in ag-gressive onesMiall(2001)Passages about Hell fromMiltons ?Paradise Lost?
werefound to contain significantlymore front vowels and hardconsonants than passagesabout Eden while the lattercontained more medium backvowelsWhissell(1999)plosives correlate with un-pleasant wordsAuracher etal.
(2011)nasals (e.g., /m/) relate to sad-ness, plosives (e.g., /p/) tohappiness, parallels across re-mote languagesZajonc et al(1989)umlaut /y/ causes negative af-fective statesTable 8: Phonological iconicity studiespositive class.A somewhat surprising result was that the for-eign suffix feature is not discriminative.
The hy-pothesis that the concept of the ?other?
is stereo-typed negatively does not seem to be true in ourdataset.
A closer investigation might identify gen-res where this hypothesis holds (e.g., war movies),but this would be implicit pragmatic informationabout the context of the film rather than a linguis-tically interesting finding.5.4 Poetic and Stylistic FeaturesThe experimental findings show that literary de-vices can actually be identified in fictional charac-ters names, but the same findings also indicate thatthey do not contribute significantly to the classifi-cation task.
More specifically, consonance is theonly stylistic/poetic feature that affects classifica-tion.6 Conclusions and Future WorkIn this paper we test the hypothesis that the soundand the form of fictional characters?
names cor-relates with meaning, in our particular case with2161the respective characters?
role in the work of fic-tion.
We restricted our study to fictional charac-ters since they are not tied to cultural conventionsof naming, such as names that run in a family, sothat we are able to look for patterns that are per-ceived as positive or negative by the audience andused as such (consciously or not) by the creator.Our experiments have verified that features in-trinsic to the names and without any reference tothe plot or, in general, any other context are dis-criminative.
Furthermore, we have discovered thatthe most discriminative features are of phonolog-ical nature, rather than features that hint at prag-matic information such as the gender or origin ofthe character.
A further contribution of our workis that we ran an annotation campaign and createdan annotated corpus of fictional movie charactersand their corresponding polarity.
This corpus isoffered publicly, and can serve experimentation inthe digital humanities beyond the scope of the ex-periments presented here.Our future research will test the correlation be-tween the polarity and the name of a fictional char-acter beyond the movie domain.
It would, for ex-ample, be interesting to seek differences betweenspoken names (as in films) and names that are onlymeant to be read (as in literature).
In addition, us-ing written literature will allow us to compare textsfrom different periods, pushing earlier than the rel-atively young age of motion pictures.
Characterpolarity annotations in written literature could becreated by, for example, applying sentiment anal-ysis to the full text of the work.References[Algeo2010] John Algeo.
2010.
Is a theory of namespossible?
Names, 58(2):90?96.
[Ashley2003] Leonard R. N. Ashley.
2003.
Namesin Literature.
Bloomington, IN: Authorhouse (for-merly 1st Books).
[Auracher et al2011] Jan Auracher, Sabine Albers,Yuhui Zhai, Gulnara Gareeva, and Tetyana Stavniy-chuk.
2011.
P is for happiness, N is for sadness:Universals in sound iconicity to detect emotions inpoetry.
Discourse Processes, 48(1):1?25.
[Bhargava and Kondrak2010] Aditya Bhargava andGrzegorz Kondrak.
2010.
Language identificationof names with SVMs.
In Human Language Tech-nologies: The 2010 Annual Conference of the NorthAmerican Chapter of the Association for Compu-tational Linguistics, pages 693?696, Los Angeles,California, June.
Association for ComputationalLinguistics.
[Black and Wilcox2011] Sharon Black and BradWilcox.
2011.
188 unexplainable names: Bookof Mormon names no fiction writer would choose.Religious Educator, 12(2).
[Borin et al2007] Lars Borin, Dimitrios Kokkinakis,and Leif-J?oran Olsson.
2007.
Naming the past:Named entity and animacy recognition in 19th cen-tury Swedish literature.
In ACL 2007 Workshop onLanguage Technology for Cultural Heritage Data(LaTeCH 2007), pages 1?8.
[Butler2013] James Odelle Butler.
2013.
Name, Place,and Emotional Space: Themed Semantics in Liter-ary Onomastic Research.
Ph.D. thesis, Universityof Glasgow.
[Chen2008] Lindsey N. Chen.
2008.
Ethnic markednames as a reflection of United States isolationistattitudes in Uncle $crooge comic books.
Names,56(1):19?22.
[Danescu-Niculescu-Mizil et al2012] CristianDanescu-Niculescu-Mizil, Justin Cheng, Jon M.Kleinberg, and Lillian Lee.
2012.
You had me athello: How phrasing affects memorability.
CoRR,abs/1203.6360.
[de Saussure1916 1983] Ferdinand de Saussure.
[1916]1983.
Course in General Linguistics.
Duckworth,London.
(translation Roy Harris).
[Esuli and Sebastiani2006] Andrea Esuli and FabrizioSebastiani.
2006.
SENTIWORDNET: A publiclyavailable lexical resource for opinion mining.
InProceedings of the 5th Conference on Language Re-sources and Evaluation (LREC?06), pages 417?422.
[Florou and Konstantopoulos2011] Eirini Florou andStasinos Konstantopoulos.
2011.
A quantitativeand qualitative analysis of Nordic surnames.
In Pro-ceedings of the 18th Nordic Conference of Compu-tational Linguistics (NODALIDA 2011), May 11-13,2011, Riga, Latvia, volume 11 of NEALT Proceed-ings Series.
[Fonagy1961] Ivan Fonagy.
1961.
Communication inPoetry.
William Clowes.
[Guerini et al2015] Marco Guerini, G?ozde?Ozbal, andCarlo Strapparava.
2015.
Echoes of Persuasion:The Effect of Euphony in Persuasive Communica-tion.
CoRR, abs/1508.05817.
[Hajd?u1980] Mih?aly Hajd?u.
1980.
The history of Ono-mastics.
Onomastica Uralica, 2:7?45.
[Hall et al2009] Mark Hall, Eibe Frank, GeoffreyHolmes, Bernhard Pfahringer, Peter Reutemann, andIan H. Witten.
2009.
The WEKA data miningsoftware: An update.
SIGKDD Explor.
Newsl.,11(1):10?18, November.2162[Jakobson1965] Roman Jakobson.
1965.
Quest for theEssence of Language.
Diogenes, 13(51):21?37.
[Kaplan and Blei2007] David M. Kaplan and David M.Blei.
2007.
A computational approach to style inAmerican poetry.
In Proceedings of the 7th IEEEInternational Conference on Data Mining (ICDM2007), pages 553?558, October.
[Kokkinakis and Malm2011] Dimitrios Kokkinakis andMats Malm.
2011.
Character profiling in 19thcentury fiction.
In Workshop: Language Technolo-gies for Digital Humanities and Cultural Heritagein conjunction with the Recent Advances in NaturalLanguage Processing (RANLP).
Hissar, Bulgaria.
[Konstantopoulos2007] Stasinos Konstantopoulos.2007.
What?s in a name?
In Petya Osenova, ErhardHinrichs, and John Nerbonne, editors, Proceedingsof Computational Phonology Workshop, Interna-tional Conf.
on Recent Advances in NLP, (RANLP),Borovets, Bulgaria, September 2007.
[Lauzen2015] Martha Lauzen.
2015.
It?s a man?s (cel-luloid) world: On-screen representations of femalecharacters in the top 100 films of 2011.
Techni-cal report, San Diego State University Center for theStudy of Women in Television and Film, School ofTheatre, Television and Film, San Diego State Uni-versity, San Diego, CA.
[Levenshtein1966] Vladimir I. Levenshtein.
1966.
Bi-nary codes capable of correcting deletions, inser-tions and reversals.
Soviet Physics Doklady, 10:707,feb.
[Markey1982] T. L. Markey.
1982.
Crisis and cogni-tion in onomastics.
Names, 30(3):129?142.
[Meyer et al2014] Christian M. Meyer, MargotMieskes, Christian Stab, and Iryna Gurevych.2014.
DKPro Agreement: An Open-Source JavaLibrary for Measuring Inter-Rater Agreement.
InProceedings of the 25th International Conferenceon Computational Linguistics: System Demonstra-tions (COLING), pages 105?109, Dublin, Ireland,August.
[Miall2001] David Miall.
2001.
Sounds of contrast:An empirical approach to phonemic iconicity.
Poet-ics, 29(1):55?70.
[Miles1946] Josephine Miles.
1946.
Major adjectivesin English poetry: From Wyatt to Auden.
Universityof California Publications in English, 12.
[Miles1967] Josephine Miles.
1967.
Style and Pro-portion: The Language of Prose and Poetry.
Little,Brown and Co., Boston.
[Nastase et al2007] Vivi Nastase, Marina Sokolova,and Jelber Sayyad Shirabad.
2007.
Do happy wordssound happy?
A study of the relation between formand meaning for English words expressing emo-tions.
In Recent Advances in Natural Language Pro-cessing (RANLP 2007).
[Nicolaisen2008] William F. H. Nicolaisen.
2008.
Onnames in literature.
Nomina, 31:89?98.
[Pauls and Klein2011] Adam Pauls and Dan Klein.2011.
Faster and smaller n-gram language models.In Proceedings of the 49th Annual Meeting of theAssociation for Computational Linguistics: HumanLanguage Technologies.
[Pennebaker et al2001] JW Pennebaker, ME Francis,and RJ Booth.
2001.
Linguistic inquiry and wordcount [computer software].
Mahwah, NJ: ErlbaumPublishers.
[Rudnyckyj1959] Jaroslav B. Rudnyckyj.
1959.
Func-tion of proper names in literary works.
Interna-tionalen Vereinigung f?ur moderne Sprachen und Lit-eraturen, 61:378?383.
[Salzberg1994] Steven L. Salzberg.
1994.
C4.5: Pro-grams for machine learning.
Machine Learning,16(3):235?240.
[Schmidtke et al2014] David S. Schmidtke, MarkusConrad, and Jacobs Arthur M. 2014.
Phonologicaliconicity.
Frontiers in Psychology, 12.
[Stone et al1966] Philip J.
Stone, Dexter C. Dunphy,Marshall S. Smith, and Daniel M. Ogilvie.
1966.The General Inquirer: A Computer Approach toContent Analysis.
MIT Press, Cambridge, MA.
[Strapparava and Valitutti2004] Carlo Strapparava andAlessandro Valitutti.
2004.
WordNet-Affect: Anaffective extension of WordNet.
In Proceedings ofthe 4th International Conference on Language Re-sources and Evaluation, pages 1083?1086.
ELRA.
[Taylor and Taylor1965] I. K. Taylor and M. M. Taylor.1965.
Another look at phonetic symbolism.
Psy-chological Bulletin, 65.
[Volk et al2009] Martin Volk, Noah Bubenhofer,Adrian Althaus, and Maya Bangerter.
2009.
Clas-sifying named entities in an Alpine heritage corpus.K?unstliche Intelligenz, pages 40?43.
[Whissell1999] Cynthia Whissell.
1999.
Phonosym-bolism and the emotional nature of sounds: Evi-dence of the preferential use of particular phonemesin texts of differing emotional tone.
Perceptual andMotor Skills, 89(1):19?48, August.
[Zajonc et al1989] R. B. Zajonc, Sheila T. Murphy, andMarita Inglehart.
1989.
Feeling and facial effer-ence: Implications of the vascular theory of emotion.Psychological Review, 96(3):395?416, July.2163
