Proceedings of the 54th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics ?
Student Research Workshop, pages 138?144,Berlin, Germany, August 7-12, 2016.c?2016 Association for Computational LinguisticsBuilding a Corpus for Japanese Wikificationwith Fine-Grained Entity ClassesDavaajav Jargalsaikhan Naoaki Okazaki Koji Matsuda Kentaro InuiTohoku University, Japan{davaajav, okazaki, matsuda, inui}@ecei.toholu.ac.jpAbstractIn this research, we build a Wikifica-tion corpus for advancing Japanese En-tity Linking.
This corpus consists of 340Japanese newspaper articles with 25,675entity mentions.
All entity mentions arelabeled by a fine-grained semantic classes(200 classes), and 19,121 mentions weresuccessfully linked to Japanese Wikipediaarticles.
Even with the fine-grained se-mantic classes, we found it hard to definethe target of entity linking annotations andto utilize the fine-grained semantic classesto improve the accuracy of entity linking.1 IntroductionEntity linking (EL) recognizes mentions in a textand associates them to their corresponding en-tries in a knowledge base (KB), for example,Wikipedia1, Freebase (Bollacker et al, 2008), andDBPedia (Lehmann et al, 2015).
In particu-lar, when linked to Wikipedia articles, the task iscalled Wikifiation (Mihalcea and Csomai, 2007).Let us consider the following sentence.On the 2nd of June, the team of Japanwill play World Cup (W Cup) qualifica-tion match against Honduras in the sec-ond round of Kirin Cup at Kobe WingStadium, the venue for the World Cup.Wikification is expected to link ?Soccer?
to theWikipedia article titled Soccer, ?World Cup?
and?W Cup?2to FIFA World Cup 2002, ?team ofJapan?
to Japan Football Team, ?Kobe City?
toKobe, ?Kobe Wing Stadium?
to Misaki Park Sta-dium.
Since there is no entry for ?Second Roundof Kirin Cup?, the mention is labeled as NIL.1https://www.wikipedia.org/2?W Cup?
is a Japanese-style abbreviation of ?WorldCup?.EL is useful for various NLP tasks, e.g.,Question-Answering (Khalid et al, 2008), Infor-mation Retrieval (Blanco et al, 2015), Knowl-edge Base Population (Dredze et al, 2010), Co-Reference Resolution (Hajishirzi et al, 2013).There are about a dozen of datasets target-ing EL in English, including UIUC datasets(ACE, MSNBC) (Ratinov et al, 2011), AIDAdatasets (Hoffart et al, 2011), and TAC-KBPdatasets (2009?2012 datasets) (McNamee andDang, 2009).Ling et al (2015) discussed various challengesin EL.
They argued that the existing datasets areinconsistent with each other.
For instance, TAC-KBP targets only mentions belonging to PER-SON, LOCATION, ORGANIZATION classes.Although these entity classes may be dominant inarticles, other tasks may require information onnatural phenomena, product names, and institu-tion names.
In contrast, the MSNBC corpus doesnot limit entity classes, linking mentions to anyWikipedia article.
However, the MSNBC corpusdoes not have a NIL label even if a mention be-longs to an important class such as PERSON orLOCATION, unlike the TAC-KBP corpus.There are few studies addressing on JapaneseEL.
Furukawa et al (2014) conducted a study onrecognizing technical terms appearing in academicarticles and linking them to English Wikipediaarticles.
Hayashi et al (2014) proposed an ELmethod that simultaneously performs both Englishand Japanese Wikification, given parallel texts inboth languages.
Nakamura et al (2015) linkskeywords in social media into English Wikipedia,aiming at a cross-language system that recognizestopics of social media written in any language.
Os-ada et al (2015) proposed a method to link men-tions in news articles for organizing local news ofdifferent prefectures in Japan.However, these studies do not necessarily ad-138vance EL on a Japanese KB.
As of January 2016,Japanese Wikipedia and English Wikipedia in-clude about 1 million and 5 million, respectively,articles.
However, there are only around 0.56 mil-lion inter-language links between Japanese andEnglish.
Since most of the existing KBs (e.g.,Freebase and DBPedia) originate from Wikipedia,we cannot expect that English KBs cover enti-ties that are specific to Japanese culture, locals,and economics.
Moreover, a Japanese EL systemis useful for populating English knowledge baseas well, harvesting source documents written inJapanese.To make matters worse, we do not have a cor-pus for Japanese EL, i.e., Japanese mentions as-sociated with Japanese KB.
Although (Murawakiand Mori, 2016) concern with Japanese EL, thecorpus they have built is not necessarily a cor-pus for Japanese EL.
The motivation behind theirwork comes from the difficulty of word segmen-tation for unsegmented languages, like Chinese orJapanese.
(Murawaki and Mori, 2016) approachthe word segmentation problem from point of viewof Wikification.
Their focus is on the word seg-mentation rather than on the linking.In this research, we build a Japanese Wikifica-tion corpus in which mentions in Japanese doc-uments are associated with Japanese Wikipediaarticles.
The corpus consists of 340 newspaperarticles from Balanced Corpus of ContemporaryWritten Japanese (BCCWJ)3annotated with fine-grained named entity labels defined by Sekine?sExtended Named Entity Hierarchy (Sekine et al,2002)4.2 Dataset ConstructionTo give a better understanding of our dataset webriefly compare it with existing English datasets.The most comparable ones are UIUC (Ratinovet al, 2011) and TAC-KBP 2009?2012 datasets(McNamee and Dang, 2009).
Although, AIDAdatasets are widely used for Disambiguation ofEntities, AIDA uses YAGO, an unique Knowl-edge Base derived from Wikipedia, GeoNamesand Wordnet, which makes it difficult to com-pare.
UIUC is similar to our dataset in a sense thatit links to any Wikipedia article without any se-mantic class restrictions, unlike TAC-KBP which3http://pj.ninjal.ac.jp/corpus_center/bccwj/en/4https://sites.google.com/site/extendednamedentityhierarchy/is limited to mentions that belong to PERSON,LOCATION or ORGANIZATION classes only.When an article is not present in Wikipedia, UIUCdoes not record this information in any way.
Onthe contrary, TAC-KBP5and our datasets haveNILtag used to mark a mention when it does not havean entry in KB.2.1 Design PolicyLing et al (2015) argued that the task definitionof EL itself is challenging: whether to target onlynamed entities (NEs) or to include general nouns;whether to limit semantic classes of target NEs;how to define NE boundaries; how specific thelinks should be; and how to handle metonymy.The original (Hashimoto et al, 2008) corpus isalso faced with similar challenges: mention abbre-viations that result in the string representation thatis an exact match to the string representation ofanother mention, abbreviated or not (for example,?Tokyo (City)?
and ?TV Tokyo?
), metonymy andsynecdoche.As for the mention ?World Cup?
in the exam-ple in Section 1, we have three possible candidatesentities, World Cup, FIFA World Cup, and 2002FIFA World Cup.
Although all of them look rea-sonable, 2002 FIFA World Cup is the most suit-able, being more specific than others.
At the sametime, we cannot expect thatWikipedia includes themost specific entities.
For example, let us supposethat we have a text discussing a possible venuefor 2034 FIFA World Cup.
As of January 2016,Wikipedia does not include an article about 2034FIFA World Cup6.
Thus, it may be a difficult deci-sion whether to link it to FIFA World Cup or makeit NIL.Moreover, the mention ?Kobe Wing Stadium?includes nested NE mentions, ?Kobe (City)?
and?Kobe Wing Stadium?.
Furthermore, although thearticle titled ?Kobe Wing Stadium?
does exist inJapanese Wikipedia, the article does not explainthe stadium itself but explains the company run-ning the stadium.
Japanese Wikipedia includesa separate article Misaki Park Stadium describingthe stadium.
In addition, the mention ?Honduras?does not refer to Honduras as a country, but as thenational soccer team of Honduras.In order to separate these issues raised by NEs5TAC-KBP 2012 requires NIL to be clustered in accor-dance to the semantic classes.6Surprisingly, Wikipedia includes articles for the futureWorld Cups up to 2030.139from the EL task, we decided to build a Wikifica-tion corpus on top of a portion of BCCWJ cor-pora with Extended Named Entity labels anno-tated (Hashimoto et al, 2008).
This corpus con-sists of 340 newspaper articles where NE bound-aries and semantic classes are annotated.
Thisdesign strategy has some advantages.
First, wecan omit the discussion on semantic classes andboundaries of NEs.
Second, we can analyze theimpact of semantic classes of NEs to the task ofEL.2.2 Annotation ProcedureWe have used brat rapid annotation tool (Stene-torp et al, 2012) to effectively link mentions toWikipedia articles.
Brat has a functionality of im-porting external KBs (e.g., Freebase or Wikipedia)for EL.
We have prepared a KB for Brat usinga snapshot of Japanese Wikipedia accessed onNovember 2015.
We associate a mention to aWikipedia ID so that we can uniquely locate an ar-ticle even when the title of the article is changed.We configure Brat so that it can present a title anda lead sentence (short description) of each articleduring annotation.Because this is the first attempt to build aJapanese Wikification dataset on a fine-grainedNE corpus, we did not limit the semantic classesof target NEs in order to analyze the importanceof different semantic classes.
However, based onpreliminary investigation results, we decided toexclude the following semantic classes from tar-gets of the annotation: Timex (Temporal Expres-sion, 12 classes), Numex (Numerical Expression,34 classes), Address (e.g., postal address andurls, 1 class), Title Other (e.g., Mr., Mrs.,1 class), Facility Part (e.g, 9th floor, sec-ond basement, 1 class).
Mentions belonging toother classes were linked to their correspondingWikipedia pages.We asked three Japanese native speakers to linkmentions into Wikipedia articles using Brat.
Wegave the following instructions to obtain consis-tent annotations:1.
Choose the entity that is the most specific inpossible candidates.2.
Do not link a mention into a disambiguationpage, category page, nor WikiMedia page.3.
Link a mention into a section of an articleonly when no suitable article exists for theAttribute Value# articles 340# mentions 25,675# links 19,121# NILs 6,554# distinct mentions 7,118# distinct entities 6,008Table 1: Statistics of the corpus built by this work.Annotator pair AgreementAnnotators 1 and 2 0.910Annotators 2 and 3 0.924Table 2: Inter-annotator agreement.mention.2.3 Annotation ResultsTable 1 reports the statistics of the corpus built bythis work.
Out of 25,675 mentions satisfying theconditions explained in Section 2.2, 19,121 men-tions were linked to Japanese Wikipedia articles.In total, 7,118 distinct mentions were linked to6,008 distinct entities.
Table 2 shows the highinter- annotator agreement (the Cohen-Kappa?scoefficient) of the corpus7.In order to find important/unimportant seman-tic classes of NEs for EL, we computed thelink rate for each semantic class.
Link rateof a semantic class is the ratio of the numberof linkable (non-NIL) mentions belonging thatclass to the total number of mentions of thatclass occurring throughout the corpus.
Table 3presents semantic classes with the highest andlowest link rates8.
Popular NE classes such asProvince and Pro Sports Organizationhad high link rates.
Semantic classes such as Bookand Occasion Other had low link rates be-cause these entities are rare and uncommon.
How-ever, we also found it difficult to limit the target ofentity linking based only on semantic classes be-cause the importance of the semantic classes with7We cannot compute the inter-annotator agreement be-tween Annotators 1 and 3, who have no overlap articles forannotation.8In this analysis, we removed semantic classes appearingless than 100 times in the corpus.
We concluded that thoseminor semantic classes do little help in revealing the natureof the dataset we have built.
Most of them had perfect or nearto zperfect link rates with mentions being rare and uniquelyidentifiable.140Figure 1: A screenshot of the annotation senvironment with Brat.low link rates depends on the application; for ex-ample, Occasion Other, which has the lowestlink rate, may be crucial for event extraction fromtext.In the research on word sense disambiguation(WSD), it is common to assume that the identi-cal expressions have the same sense throughoutthe text.
This assumption is called one-sense-per-discourse.
In our corpus, 322 out of 340 (94.7%)articles satisfy the assumption.
A few instances in-clude: expressions ?Bush?
referred to bothGeorgeH.
W. Bush and George W. Bush (the former is of-ten referred as Bush Senior and the latter as BushJunior); and expressions ?Tokyo?
referred to bothTokyo Television and Tokyo city.2.4 Difficult Annotation CasesWe report cases where annotators found difficultto choose an entity from multiple potential candi-dates.
Mention boundaries from the original cor-pus are indicated by underline.Nested entitiesIt was assumed that the role ini-tially served as a temporary peace-maker to persuade Ali al-Sistani,the spiritual leader of Shia Muslims:Position Vocation.Since the mention in the sentence refers to thehighest ranking position of a specific religion, itis inappropriate to link the mention to the articleSpiritual Leader nor Shia Muslim.
Therefore, wedecided to mark this mention as NIL.Entity changes over timeIn his greeting speech, the representativeIto expressed his opinion on the upcom-ing gubernatorial election: Event Otherand Sapporo city mayoral election.This article was about the Hokkaido Prefecture gu-bernatorial election held in 2003.
Since the BC-CWJ corpus does not provide timestamps of arti-cles, it is difficult to identify the exact event.
How-ever, this article has a clue in another place, ?theprogress of the developmental project from 2001?.For this reason, the annotators could resolve themention to 2003 Hokkaido Prefecture gubernato-rial election.
Generally, it is difficult to identifyevents that are held periodically.
The similar issueoccurs in mentions regarding position/profession(e.g., ?former president?)
and sport events (e.g.,?World Cup?
).Japanese EL is similar to English El: the samechallenges of mention ambiguity (nested entities,metonymy) still persist.
With the Japanese Wikifi-cation, a variation of the task that takes advantageof the cross-lingual nature of Wikipedia is worthexploring.3 Wikification ExperimentIn this section, we conduct an experiment of Wik-ification on the corpus built by this work.
Wikifi-cation is decomposed into two steps: recognizinga mention m in the text, and predicting the cor-responding entity e for the mention m. Becausethe corpus was built on the corpus with NE men-tions recognized, we omit the step of entity men-tion recognition.3.1 Wikification without fine-grainedsemantic classesOur experiment is based on the disambiguationmethod that uses the probability distribution of an-chor texts (Spitkovsky and Chang, 2012).
Given amention m, the method predicts an entity e?
thatyields the highest probability p(e|m),e?
= argmaxe?Ep(e|m).
(1)141Category Example Link Rate # of Links # of OccurrencesProvince Fukuoka Prefecture 0.983 678 690Country United States of America 0.976 1924 1964GPE Other Ginza 0.974 115 118Political Party Liberal Democratic Party 0.967 236 244Pro Sports Organization Yomiuri Giants 0.997 290 300City Sendai City 0.947 1354 1430Company Group JR 0.928 103 111Mammal Kangaroo 0.906 164 181International Organization NATO 0.891 188 211Company NTT 0.883 647 733...Game Summer Olympics 0.576 167 290Conference 34th G8 summit 0.548 74 135Public Institution Takatsuki City Office 0.451 105 233Book Sazae-san 0.412 49 119Political Organization Other Takeshita faction 0.407 68 167Organization Other General Coordination Division 0.393 55 140GOE Other White House 0.363 99 274Plan Income Doubling Plan 0.273 32 117Character Mickey Mouse 0.145 29 200Occasion Other Tsukuba EXPO 0.113 28 226Table 3: 10 classes with the highest and the lowest link rates among the classes that occurred more than100 timesHere, E is the set of all articles in JapaneseWikipedia.
The conditional probability p(e|m)is estimated by the anchor texts in JapaneseWikipedia,p(e|m) =# occurrences of m as anchors to e#occurrences of m as anchors.
(2)If ?e : p(e|m) = 0 for the mention m, we markthe mention asNIL.
Ignoring contexts of mentions,this method relies on the popularity of entities inthe anchor texts of the mention m. The accuracyof this method was 53.31% (13,493 mentions outof 25,309).3.2 Wikification with fine-grained semanticclassesFurthermore, we explore the usefulness of thefine-grained semantic classes for Wikification.This method estimates probability distributionsconditioned on a mention m and its semantic classc.
Idealy, we would like to predict an entity e?
with,e?
= argmaxe?E,c?Cp(e|m, c) (3)However, it is hard to estimate the probability dis-tribution p(e|m, c) directly from the Wikipediaarticles.
Instead, we decompose p(e|m, c) intop(e|m)p(e|c) to obtain,e?
= argmaxe?E,c?Cp(e|m)p(e|c).
(4)Here, C is the set of all semantic classes includedin Sekine?s Extended Named Entity Hierarchy.
Inaddition, we apply Bayes?
rule to p(e|c),e?
= argmaxe?E,c?Cp(e|m)p(c|e)p(e) (5)The probability distribution p(c|e) bridgesWikipedia articles and semantic classes defined inSekine?s Extended Named Entity Hierarchy.
Weadapt a method to predict a semantic class of aWikipedia article (Suzuki et al, 2016) for esti-mating p(c|e).
The accuracy of this method was53.26% (13,480 mentions out of 25,309), whichis slightly lower than that of the previous method.The new method improved 627 instances mainlywith LOCATION Category (e.g., country namesand city names).
For example,The venue is Aichi Welfare Pen-sion Hall in Ikeshita, NagoyaSemantic Class: City Correct:Nagoya CityOld Method: Nagoya StationNew Method: Nagoya CityBecause Nagoya Station is more popular in anchortexts in Japanese Wikipedia, the old method pre-dicts Nagoya Station as the entity for the mentionNagoya.
In contrast, the new method could lever-age the semantic class, City to avoid the mistake.We could observe similar improvements for distin-guishing Country ?
Language, Person ?
Location,Location ?
Sports Team.142However, the new method degraded 664 in-stances mainly because the fine-grained entityclasses tried to map them into too specific enti-ties.
More than half of such instances belongedto POSITION VOCATION semantic class.
Forexample, mention ?Prime Minister?
was mistak-ingly mapped to Prime Minister of Japan insteadof Prime Minister.4 Future WorkIn our future work, we will incorporate the contextinformation of the text in the Wikification processand further investigate the definition of the targetof entity linking annotations.
Although incorpo-rating semantic classes of entities has a potential toimprove Wikification quality, some problems stillremain even with the semantic classes.
Here, weexplain some interesting cases.Name variationsDuring the summer, a JASRAC Correct:Japanese Society for Rights of Authors, Composers and PublishersPredicted: NIL staff came to the shop toexplain it.This type of mistakes are caused by the lack ofaliases and redirects in Wikipedia.
In this exam-ple, the mention ?JASRAC?
was predicted as NILbecause Wikipedia did not include JASRAC as analias for Japanese Society for Rights of Authors,Composers and Publishers.Link bias in WikipediaThousands have participated in thefuneral held at World Trade CenterCorrect: World Trade Center (1973-2001)Predicted: World Trade Center (Tokyo), whichis known as ?Ground Zero?.In this example, the mention ?World Trade Cen-ter?
refers to World Trade Center (1973?2001)with strong clues in the surrounding context?Ground Zero?.
Both of the presented methodspredict it as World Trade Center (Tokyo) becausethere is a building with the identical name inJapan.
Using Japanese Wikipedia articles for es-timating the probability distribution, Japanese en-tities are more likely to be predicted.5 ConclusionIn this research, we have build a Wikification cor-pus for advancing Japanese Entity Linking.
Wehave conducted Wikification experiment using us-ing fine grained semantic classes.
Although we ex-pect an effect of the fine-grained semantic classes,we could no observe an improvement in terms ofthe accuracy on the corpus.
The definition of thetarget of entity linking annotations requires fur-ther investigation.
We are distributing the cor-pus on the Web site http://www.cl.ecei.tohoku.ac.jp/jawikify.AcknowledgmentsThis work was partially supported by Researchand Development on Real World Big Data Integra-tion and Analysis, MEXT and JSPS KAKENHIGrant number 15H05318.ReferencesRoi Blanco, Giuseppe Ottaviano, and Edgar Meij.2015.
Fast and space-efficient entity linking forqueries.
In Proc.
of WSDM, pages 179?188.Kurt Bollacker, Colin Evans, Praveen Paritosh, TimSturge, and Jamie Taylor.
2008.
Freebase: A col-laboratively created graph database for structuringhuman knowledge.
In Proceedings of the 2008 ACMSIGMOD International Conference on Managementof Data, pages 1247?1250.Mark Dredze, Paul McNamee, Delip Rao, Adam Ger-ber, and Tim Finin.
2010.
Entity disambiguation forknowledge base population.
In Proc.
of COLING,pages 277?285.Tatsuya Furukawa, Takeshi Sagara, and Akiko Aizawa.2014.
Semantic disambiguation for cross-lingualentity linking (in Japanese).
Journal of Japan So-ciety ofInformation and Knowledge, 24(2):172?177.Hannaneh Hajishirzi, Leila Zilles, Daniel S. Weld, andLuke Zettlemoyer.
2013.
Joint coreference res-olution and named-entity linking with multi-passsieves.
In Proc.
of EMNLP, pages 289?299.Taichi Hashimoto, Takashi Inui, and Koji Murakami.2008.
Constructing extended named entity an-notated corpora (in Japanese).
In IPSJ NaturalLnaguage Processing (2008-NL-188), pages 113?120.Yoshihiko Hayashi, Kenji Hayashi, Masaaki Nagata,and Takaaki Tanaka.
2014.
Improving Wikificationof bitexts by completing cross-lingual information.In The 28th Annual Conference of the Japanese So-ciety for Artificial Intelligence, pages 1A2?2.Johannes Hoffart, Mohamed Amir Yosef, Ilaria Bor-dino, Hagen F?urstenau, Manfred Pinkal, Marc Span-iol, Bilyana Taneva, Stefan Thater, and GerhardWeikum.
2011.
Robust disambiguation of namedentities in text.
In Proc.
of EMNLP, pages 782?792.143Mahboob Alam Khalid, Valentin Jijkoun, and MaartenDe Rijke.
2008.
The impact of named entity nor-malization on information retrieval for question an-swering.
In Proc.
of ECIR, pages 705?710.Jens Lehmann, Robert Isele, Max Jakob, AnjaJentzsch, Dimitris Kontokostas, Pablo N. Mendes,Sebastian Hellmann, Mohamed Morsey, Patrick vanKleef, S?oren Auer, and Christian Bizer.
2015.
DB-pedia ?
a large-scale, multilingual knowledge baseextracted from Wikipedia.
Semantic Web, 6(2):167?195.Xiao Ling, Sameer Singh, and Daniel Weld.
2015.Design challenges for entity linking.
TACL, 3:315?328.Paul McNamee and Hoa Trang Dang.
2009.
Overviewof the TAC 2009 knowledge base population track.In Text Analysis Conference (TAC), pages 111?113.Rada Mihalcea and Andras Csomai.
2007.
Wikify!
:Linking documents to encyclopedic knowledge.
InProc.
of CIKM, pages 233?242.Yugo Murawaki and Shinsuke Mori.
2016.
Wicifica-tion for scriptio continua.
In Proc.
of LREC, pages1346?1351.Tatsuya Nakamura, Masumi Shirakawa, TakahiroHara, and Shojiro Nishio.
2015.
An entity link-ing method for closs-lingual topic extraction fromsocial media (in Japanese).
In DEIM Forum 2015,pages A3?1.Seiya Osada, Keigo Suenaga, Yoshizumi Shogo,Kazumasa Shoji, Tsuneharu Yoshida, and YasuakiHashimoto.
2015.
Assigning geographical pointinformation for document via entity linking (inJapanese).
In Proceedings of the Twenty-first An-nual Meeting of the Association for Natural Lan-guage Processing, pages A4?4.Lev Ratinov, Dan Roth, Doug Downey, and Mike An-derson.
2011.
Local and global algorithms for dis-ambiguation to Wikipedia.
In Proc.
of ACL-HLT,pages 1375?1384.Satoshi Sekine, Kiyoshi Sudo, and Chikashi Nobata.2002.
Extended named entity hierarchy.
In Pro-ceedings of LREC 2002.Valentin I. Spitkovsky and Angel X. Chang.
2012.
Across-lingual dictionary for english Wikipedia con-cepts.
In Proc.
of LREC, pages 3168?3175.Pontus Stenetorp, Sampo Pyysalo, Goran Topic,Tomoko Ohta, Sophia Ananiadou, and Jun?ichi Tsu-jii.
2012. brat: a web-based tool for nlp-assistedtext annotation.
In Proceedings of the Demonstra-tions Session at EACL.Masatoshi Suzuki, Koji Matsuda, Satoshi Sekine,Naoaki Okazaki, and Kentaro Inui.
2016.
Multi-label classification of wikipedia articles into fine-grained named entity types (in japanese).
Proceed-ings of the Twenty-second Annual Meeting of theAssociation for Natural Language Processing.144
