Proceedings of the 54th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics?System Demonstrations, pages 139?144,Berlin, Germany, August 7-12, 2016.c?2016 Association for Computational LinguisticsRoleo: visualising thematic fit spaces on the webAsad Sayeed and Xudong Hong and Vera DembergCluster of Excellence ?Multimodal Computing and Interaction?Saarland University66123 Saarbr?ucken, Germany{asayeed,xhong,vera}@coli.uni-saarland.deAbstractIn this paper, we present Roleo, a webtool for visualizing the vector spaces gen-erated by the evaluation of distributionalmemory (DM) models over thematic fitjudgements.
A thematic fit judgement isa rating of the selectional preference ofa verb for an argument that fills a giventhematic role.
The DM approach to the-matic fit judgements involves the construc-tion of a sub-space in which a prototyp-ical role-filler can be built for compari-son to the noun being judged.
We de-scribe a publicly-accessible web tool thatallows for querying and exploring thesespaces as well as a technique for visualiz-ing thematic fit sub-spaces efficiently forweb use.1 IntroductionWe developed Roleo as a web platform in orderto visualize and explore the vector spaces gener-ated by the process of thematic fit evaluation indistributional models.
We define thematic fit to bea measure of the extent to which the selectionalpreference of a verb given a thematic role is ful-filled by a particular noun.
For example, we expect?knife?
to strongly fit the instrument role of ?cut?,but ?sword?
much less so, and ?hammer?
hardlyat all.
Modeling thematic fit has applications in ar-eas like cognitive modeling and incremental pars-ing.
Various efforts have produced human judge-ments of thematic fit for different combinations ofverbs, roles, and nouns (Pad?o, 2007; Greenberget al, 2015), and there have been a number of re-cent efforts to build models that correlate closelywith those judgement datasets.The most successful of these have been theDistributional Memory (DM) models (Baroni andLenci, 2010), which are unsupervised modelsthat produce sparse, very high-dimensional vectorspaces.
Recently, word embedding models withsmaller numbers of dimensions have been tested,although they have yet to reach the degree of cor-relation with human judgements that DM modelshave (Baroni et al, 2014).
Nevertheless, in bothcases, some notion of geometric distance or simi-larity is used to substitute for the concept of fit.If a geometric measure is used as the opera-tional conceptualization of thematic fit, then weshould be able to subjectively assess the quality ofthe space through visualization in order to gain agrasp, for example, of how easily the space is par-titionable or clusterable.
This capability is usefulin the iterative engineering of features or for as-sessing the quality of training data.A number of existing packages across manydifferent development environments support low-dimensional projection and visualization of high-dimensional vector spaces.
There are also a smallnumber of web sites that allow word embed-dings to be visualized in a low-dimensional space(Faruqui and Dyer, 2014).
However, the best-performing work in vector-space thematic fit eval-uation projects sub-spaces from a full tensor spacegiven a verb and a role.
Roleo is designed to queryand visualize these sub-spaces in a manner that re-flects the evaluation process.Roleo is live and available for use athttp://roleo.coli.uni-saarland.de/with two example models and an efficient vi-sualization technique.
We have furthermoremade the code for it open source and available athttps://github.com/tony-hong/roleo.1.1 Design goalsOur goals for the Roleo software are to:?
Provide a web-based platform for the explo-ration of thematic fit sub-spaces based on dif-139Figure 1: Initial screen on loading Roleo in a browser.ferent vector-space modeling techniques.
Webegin with DM models.?
Make this type of semantic modeling acces-sible to other researchers via the web.
Thismeans that the interface must be reasonablyuser-friendly and allow visitors to test simplequeries without knowing how to set al possi-ble parameters.?
Facilitate presentations and demonstrationsabout thematic fit evaluation.?
Serve queries reasonably quickly, ideally at?web speed?, so that it is reasonable to ?playaround?
with the models.
This puts a con-straint on the kinds of projections and dimen-sionality reduction we can use.2 Vector-space thematic fit modeling2.1 Distributional MemoryThe currently best-performing models on the the-matic fit task, in terms of correlation with humanjudgements, are the Distributional Memory (DM)models, based on a technique first proposed by Ba-roni and Lenci (2010).
A DM model is an order-3tensor with two axes that represent words in themodel?s vocabulary and one axis that representslinks between the words, so that the cell of the ten-sor is a positive real value for the occurrence of atriple<word0,link,word1>.
That occurrence is anadjusted count of frequency such as Local MutualInformation (LMI).
The link between the words isa connection acquired from processing a corpus,such as with a dependency parser.This structure was extensively tested by Baroniand Lenci on a number of semantic tasks, includ-ing on thematic fit modeling.
Their procedure forthematic fit modeling was the following: given averb v and a role r, they look up all the nounsn such that each < v, r, n > LMI is within thehighest 20 for v and r. Then for each n, they geta word vector wnfrom the model by looking upall the word0 and link contexts that n appeared inas word1; the vector is assembled from the LMIvalues in those cells of the tensor.
Given a candi-date noun m against which to evaluate the fit withv and r, a wmvector is similarly found.
All the<word0,link> contexts are the dimensions of asubspace of the space represented by the DM ten-sor as a whole; they can number potentially in themillions.
All the wnvectors are summed to form acentroid that represents a ?prototype?
noun for thatverb and role.
The thematic fit of m is evaluatedvia the cosine similarity of wmand the centroid.2.2 Provided modelsIn our demonstration version of Roleo, we pro-vide two models, the TypeDM model from Ba-roni and Lenci and the ?Malt-only SDDM?
modelfrom Sayeed et al (2015).
TypeDM is trained onmultiple corpora (BNC, ukWaC, and Wikipedia)that have been downloaded and parsed by Malt-Parser.
The links between words that are used toform TypeDM?s link axis are derived from short140MaltParser dependency paths via a partly hand-crafted rule set.
As TypeDM?s links are derivedfrom a syntactic parser, we must simulate seman-tic roles by interpreting these links.
Roleo allowsfor the query of agent roles (via subject links), pa-tient roles (via object links), instrument roles (viathe preposition ?with?
), and location roles (via theprepositions ?in?, ?at?, and ?on?
).Malt-only SDDM (just SDDM from now on)is derived from a set of corpora similar to thatof TypeDM: BNC and ukWaC.
The main differ-ence between TypeDM and SDDM are the linktypes, which in SDDM are PropBank roles, de-rived from applying the SENNA semantic rolelabeller to the corpora.
The links are thereforethe PropBank roles that connect verbs to nouns.SENNA (Collobert and Weston, 2007), however,labels entire noun chunks with roles, often includ-ing adjectives and whole relative clauses.
Sayeedet al experiment with a number of algorithmsfor extracting the noun head or bare noun phrase;the best performing SENNA-based technique is touse the MaltParser dependencies produced by Ba-roni and Lenci, but simply as a guide for head-identification.
Sayeed et al show that PropBank-based roles and TypeDM roles help cover differentaspects of the thematic fit problem.This process can be trivially reversed to repre-sent the plausible verbs given a noun-role combi-nation and to produce a visualization thereof.
Weprovide this functionality inside Roleo, although ithas never so far been evaluated on any task.3 Efficient projectionOne of our design goals was to build a query toolthat delivered results in times reasonable for theweb with limited resources, i.e., a single-PC webserver with a modern CPU.
Because we are visual-izing thematic fit sub-spaces constructed around acentroid, we also looked for a projection that putsthe centroid at the center of the display consist-ing of the prototype nouns that were used to con-struct that centroid.
We experimented with princi-pal component analysis (PCA) and t-SNE (Van derMaaten and Hinton, 2008) and found that at DM-scale dimensionality, these took too long and weretoo computationally intensive to resolve a query inweb-appropriate time.For this reason, we came up with a two-dimensional projection specialized to our prob-lem: Fraction-Cosine Vector Mapping (FCVM).This projection is easy to calculate directly fromthe support swof each word vector w in the DMmodel (LMI) given the role and the verb, the sup-port of the centroid sc(which is just the sum of thesupports of all the vectors in the top n words forthat verb-role combination), and the cosine cwofthe angle between the centroid and the vector.Let V be the set of n highest supported wordvectors for the given verb-role combination.
Thenfor each vector, we can calculate its x and y co-ordinates in FCVM with the following procedure.The x coordinate for a projected word vector w isthe sum of proportions of contributions to scof allwords w?with a support sw?> sw, meaning thatthe more LMI-associated w is with the verb-rolecombination, the closer it is to the centroid alongthe x-axis.
That is,xw=?w?
?Vsw?sc(1)The yw-coordinate is simply 1?cw.
This meansthat xwand yware both in the interval [0, 1] and sitin the upper right quadrant of the Cartesian plane,with the origin (corner) as the centroid.
We con-vert these to polar coordinates (rw, ?w) and thenoptionally apply an adjustment to spread the pointsout.
This adjustment is to multiply ?wby a mul-tiple of 4, sweeping them across Cartesian quad-rants, in order to bring the centroid closer to a cir-cular cloud of points representing word vectors.The factors in Roleo are 1, 4, and 32, with 4 as thedefault.
The higher the factor, the more circularthe cloud.
We finally convert the polar coordinatesback to rectangular.
We also include an option todisplay the polar coordinates by directly interpret-ing them as rectangular coordinates.
The pointsare also given a colour that is dependent on their ?after the multiplication factor is applied.4 System implementationRoleo was developed in Python using the Djangoweb development package.
The DMs are imple-mented as Pandas dataframes stored in indexedHDF5 tables for efficient lookup.
Vector algebrais implemented in NumPy.
The two-dimensionalcoordinates for the points that appear in the visual-ization are calculated server-side, currently imple-mented on our own host, which is a single recentPC.
The image is drawn client-side and requires arecent browser (we test with Firefox and Chrome).Queries to Roleo take 2-10 seconds, depending141Figure 2: Zoomed-in query result for knife as instrument of cut under TypeDM with a 32-quadrant sweepand a space constructed from 50 prototype noun vectors.Figure 3: Zoomed-in query result for knife as ARGM-MNR of cut under SDDM with a 32-quadrantsweep and a space constructed from 50 prototype noun vectors.
A touch gesture has highlighted the?razor?
vector and put its cosine score on the bottom right corner.on the number of vectors chosen by the user toform the centroid, within a tolerable range for aspecialized web application.4.1 Using RoleoRoleo?s initial screen on loading it for the first timein a browser is in figure 1.
The screen is alreadypopulated with a query: how well ?apple?
fits asthe patient of ?eat?under SDDM, using 30 proto-type nouns to calculate the centroid and populatethe space.
The 4-quadrant sweep is used to drawthe canvas.
Roleo is intended for use on a desktopPC or laptop or on a tablet.Left pane Roleo?s main options are shown onthe left pane of the web page.
There, the user canset the parameters and start the query.
Fields are142Figure 4: Query result (without zooming) for ?city?
as location of ?arrive?
under TypeDM with a 1-quadrant sweep and a space constructed from 20 prototype noun vectors.available to enter a noun, a verb, and a role.
Theroles available are dependent on the model cho-sen. A slider allows the choice of between 10 and50 top prototype vectors in increments of 10, andthe choice of quadrant sweep size is available, in-cluding a ?4-span by cosine?
option, which is thedirect interpretation of the polar coordinates.The radio buttons ?Verb selects noun?
and?Noun selects verb?
allows the user to set thedirection in which the thematic fit query is exe-cuted.
?Verb selects noun?
is the default algorithmthat chooses prototype nouns based on a verb-rolecombination.
?Noun selects verb?
allows the userto explore the choice of verbs based on a noun-rolecombination.Main canvas The central pane of the Roleo pageis the canvas on which the vectors are visual-ized.
This pane can be scrolled and zoomed viamouse or touch gestures, depending on the user?sbrowser, operating system, and hardware.
Thevectors are shown as small labeled circles on thecanvas, with the gray dot as the centroid, usuallylocated in the center for the 4- and 32-quadrantsweep displays.
The queried vector is highlightedin red; the labels for the other vectors appear whenthe canvas decides there is space for them or whenthey are moused over.
The bottom left corner con-tains the cosine similarity score (with the centroid)for the queried vector, and the bottom right cornerdisplays the cosine similarity of a moused-over ortouched vector.Right pane Roleo?s right pane contains the de-tails of the query currently represented on the can-vas, in case the user needs a reminder of the previ-ous field contents as they change the fields to ex-plore the space.
In addition, it contains a button toshift Roleo into a full-screen presentation mode, abutton to download the depicted space as an im-age file, and a button (?Re-centralize?)
to returnthe current query to its default view and cancel theeffect of scrolling or zooming.4.2 Example lookupsFigures 2 and 3 contain queries about ?cut?
and?knife?
for TypeDM and SDDM respectively.For TypeDM, we chose the instrument role; forSDDM, we chose manner (PropBank ?ARGM-MNR?).
With TypeDM, we see items that areknife-like.
Most of what appears there that isnot knife-like can be used with the preposition?with?, as we have defined the instrument role forquerying TypeDM (section 2.2).
Other parts ofthe space not depicted here contain less knife-likeitems, such as a region where ?chainsaw?, ?clip-per?, ?mower?, and ?grinder?
are close to one an-other.For SDDM, we also see knife-like instruments,but we see ?half?
and ?manner?, as in ?cut in half?and ?cut in a manner?, also a result of PropBank.There is also probable noise in both cases (e.g.143?have?, ?hole?
), as these spaces are ultimately de-rived from large corpora.Figure 4 is a 1-quadrant, 20-prototype view ofthe ?arrive?-location combination given a queriednoun of ?city?
under TypeDM.
This is thereforea rectangular view.
Given the FCVM projection,?city?
is in the middle of the group along the y-axis, meaning that it is the middle of the groupfor cosines.
However, it is far along the x-axis,meaning that it had comparatively low LMI scorewith respect to ?arrive?
and the location role.5 DemonstrationThe centrepiece of our demonstration at the con-ference is a laptop or other computer display thatallows conference visitors to interact with Roleo,as we explain its capabilities and advantages andexplore different vector spaces with the help of anassociated poster.6 Future workRoleo is under active development, and we intendto include significant additional features.
Amongthese:Adding models We plan to add more models,including newer, dense word-embedding spacesfor comparison, in order to help us diagnose whythese spaces seem to perform less well than DMson the thematic fit task (Baroni et al, 2014).More visualizations FCVM provides a way toproject high-dimensional vector spaces down totwo dimensions in a reasonable time for web useon a single thread on a single server.
It principallyrepresents the location of a vector with respect tothe centroid, which is ideal for thematic fit model-ing, and it leads to a tendency for vectors relatedvia the verb to be close to one another.
However,it loses a direct geometric or probabilistic inter-pretation of the proximity of vectors.
Therefore,we are investigating the possibility of adaptingFCVM and more processor-intensive procedureslike t-SNE and PCA to one another.
Currently, weare testing a lightweight SVD-based visualizationalgorithm that still centers points around the cen-troid; although it is more computationally inten-sive than FCVM, our preliminary observations arethat it produces more well-defined clusters in ac-ceptable time.ReferencesMarco Baroni, Georgiana Dinu, and Germ?anKruszewski.
2014.
Don?t count, predict!
asystematic comparison of context-counting vs.context-predicting semantic vectors.
In Pro-ceedings of the 52nd Annual Meeting of theAssociation for Computational Linguistics.
vol-ume 1, pages 238?247.Marco Baroni and Alessandro Lenci.
2010.
Dis-tributional memory: A general framework forcorpus-based semantics.
Computational Lin-guistics 36(4):673?721.Ronan Collobert and Jason Weston.
2007.
Fast se-mantic extraction using a novel neural networkarchitecture.
In Proceedings of the 45th AnnualMeeting of the Association of ComputationalLinguistics.
Association for Computational Lin-guistics, Prague, Czech Republic, pages 560?567.Manaal Faruqui and Chris Dyer.
2014.
Com-munity evaluation and exchange of word vec-tors at wordvectors.org.
In Proceedings of the52nd Annual Meeting of the Association forComputational Linguistics: System Demonstra-tions.
Association for Computational Linguis-tics, Baltimore, USA.Clayton Greenberg, Vera Demberg, and Asad Say-eed.
2015.
Verb polysemy and frequency effectsin thematic fit modeling.
In Proceedings of the6th Workshop on Cognitive Modeling and Com-putational Linguistics.
Association for Compu-tational Linguistics, Denver, Colorado, pages48?57.Ulrike Pad?o.
2007.
The integration of syntax andsemantic plausibility in a wide-coverage modelof human sentence processing.
Ph.D. thesis,Saarland University.Asad Sayeed, Vera Demberg, and Pavel Shkadzko.2015.
An exploration of semantic features inan unsupervised thematic fit evaluation frame-work.
In IJCoL vol.
1, n. 1 december 2015:Emerging Topics at the First Italian Conferenceon Computational Linguistics.
Accademia Uni-versity Press, pages 25?40.Laurens Van der Maaten and Geoffrey Hinton.2008.
Visualizing data using t-sne.
Journal ofMachine Learning Research 9(2579-2605):85.144
