Proceedings of the 54th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics ?
Student Research Workshop, pages 51?57,Berlin, Germany, August 7-12, 2016.c?2016 Association for Computational LinguisticsArabizi Identification in Twitter DataTaha TobailiKnowledge Media InstituteThe Open Universitytaha.tobaili@open.ac.ukAbstractIn this work we explore some challengesrelated to analysing one form of the Ara-bic language called Arabizi.
Arabizi,a portmanteau of Araby-Englizi, mean-ing Arabic-English, is a digital trend intexting Non-Standard Arabic using Latinscript.
Arabizi users express their nat-ural dialectal Arabic in text without fol-lowing a unified orthography.
We addressthe challenge of identifying Arabizi frommulti-lingual data in Twitter, a preliminarystep for analysing sentiment from Arabizidata.
We annotated a corpus of Twitterdata streamed across two Arab countries,extracted linguistic features and traineda classifier achieving an average Arabiziidentification accuracy of 94.5%.
We alsopresent the percentage of Arabizi usageon Twitter across both countries providingimportant insights for researchers in NLPand sociolinguistics.1 IntroductionArabizi comprises a portion of the Arabic socialmedia, thus any large dataset crawled from an Ara-bic public source may contain Modern-StandardArabic (MSA), Non-Standard Arabic (NSA), Ara-bizi and other languages such as English andFrench.
MSA is the formal Arabic that is mostlyused in news broadcasting channels and maga-zines to address the entire Arab region.
NSA isinformal, dialectal and esoteric to each region.
Itvaries among North Africa, Egypt, Levant, and theArabian Gulf.
Arabizi is a descendant of NSA,where dialectal words are expressed in Latin scriptsuch as ?
?.JJ.k which means darling written as7abibi.
Apart from being dialectal, people expresstheir natural voice in text without following a uni-fied orthographical and grammatical regulations.A.
Bies et al mention that the use of Arabiziis prevalent enough to pose a challenge for Ara-bic NLP research (2014).
Basis Technology, acompany that specializes in computational linguis-tics for digital forensics stated that Arabizi posesa problem for government analytics since it has nostructure (2012).
The way Arabs use Arabizi isa significant challenge for data scientists for thefollowing reasons: it is written in Latin script, itvaries among regions, it is not written in a unifiedorthographical, syntactical or grammatical struc-ture, it could be mixed with other languages ina single sentence, and it often exist within multi-lingual datasets.Identification of Arabizi advances the ArabicNLP, specifically in sentiment analysis for Arabic.Being able to identify and analyse Arabizi will fillan important gap in processing Arabic from socialmedia data.
Several researchers working on sen-timent analysis for Arabic filter out Arabizi fromtheir datasets, mainly due to the non-availablitiy ofpublic resources such as word lexicons, stemmers,and POS taggers to process this type of text.
Ina recent survey about sentiment analysis for Ara-bic, S. Ahmed et al mention that the use of di-alect and Arabizi have not been addressed yet inexisting literature (2013).
In this paper we ad-dress the following questions: How frequent is theusage of Arabizi in Egypt and Lebanon on Twit-ter, and which methods could be used to automati-cally identify Arabizi within multi-lingual Twitterstreams.Public social media data, particularly Twitter,is important for sentiment analysis as it containsand reflects the public?s opinion.
The type of datain Twitter is large-scale and diverse, not biasedto certain groups of people or topics.
We col-lect Twitter data from Egypt and Lebanon, pre-51process it, and annotate sample datasets.
First,we present the amount of Arabizi usage in eachof Egypt and Lebanon by reporting the percentageof Arabic, English, and Arabizi tweets.
Second,we extract some linguistic features using Langde-tect1(Nakatani, 2010), a language detection li-brary ported from Google?s language-detection,and train an SVM classifier to identify Arabizifrom multi-lingual Twitter data.
We believe thatbeing able to identify Arabizi from multi-lingualdata on social media brings us closer to addressingsentiment analysis for Arabic, inclusive of NSAand Arabizi.The rest of the paper is structured as follows: InSection II, we investigate what other researchershave done for analysing Arabizi.
In Section III,we collect, pre-process and annotate Twitter dataand present our approach of extracting linguisticfeatures and training the classifier.
In Section IV,we present the results and a discussion.
In SectionV, we conclude and add a future work plan.2 Related WorkIn this section we survey papers and present theefforts of other researchers on the percentage ofArabizi usage, the motive for analysing sentimentfrom Arabizi data, and related work in Arabic di-alect and Arabizi detection.2.1 Percentage of Arabizi UsageSeveral sociolinguistic studies focus on the Ara-bizi phenomena, where the researchers tend to ex-plore how this texting style developed and becamea trend in the Arab region.
S. Jaran and F. Al-Haq(Jaran and Al-Haq, 2015) presented how nativescoin and trend Arabizi words by adopting an En-glish word and conjugating it in their NSA suchas: I miss you ?
missak, ak is a suffix addedwhen referring to the pronoun you in the mascu-line form in several NSA dialects.
In (Muhammedet al, 2011; Yaghan, 2008; Aboelezz, 2009; Al-abdulqader et al, 2014; Gibson, 2015; Jaran andAl-Haq, 2015; Keong et al, 2015) the authorscollected information about people who use Ara-bizi such as age, gender, and level of educationand reported the frequency and context of Ara-bizi usage within certain groups of people.
In Ta-ble 1 we present these studies that were conductedby monitoring mobile messaging, distributing sur-veys among university students, or analysing on-1https://goo.gl/xn1jJrline forum comments.
The percentage of Arabiziusage varies in each of these studies depending onthe year the study was conducted, the region, themedium, and the users.
However, most of thesestudies are based on private mobile messages, weon the other hand report the percentage of Arabiziusage on a public social medium.
We investigatedArabizi from Twitter data across 2 Arab countries,Egypt and Lebanon; our method can be applied toany other Arab country.2.2 Arabizi in Sentiment AnalysisWe point to few studies where researchers col-lected Arabic data for sentiment analysis but fil-tered out Arabizi, saying that their tools are in-capable of handling Arabizi.
M. Al-Kabi et alcarried out a research in sentiment analysis ona dataset of 1,080 NSA reviews collected fromsocial and news websites filtering out Arabizi(2013; 2014).
R. Duwairi and I. Qarqaz collected500 Facebook comments in Arabic for sentimentanalysis filtering out Arabizi as well (2014).
R.Duwairi et al also mention that Arabizi is com-mon in Arab blogs, highlighting the fact that thereare no Arabizi benchmark datasets nor sentimentlexicons available (2015).2.3 Arabic Dialect DetectionRecent studies are focused on detecting dialectalArabic from a given text.
Most of these stud-ies rely on annotated dialectal Arabic corpora andtraining a classifier with character and word n-gram features.
O. Zaidan and C. Callison-Burchannotated over 100,000 sentences and trained ann-gram probabilistic classifier that detects the di-alect of input sentences (2014).
S. Malmasi et alused 2 classifiers to predict whether a given sen-tence is dialectal or MSA (2015).
First, a Condi-tional Random Field (CRF) classifier trained withword-level features using MADAMIRA (2014)and other tools.
Second, a trained sentencelevel classifier covering dialectal statistics, writingstyle, and word relatedness features.
Other recentefforts on dialect detection (Cotterell and Callison-Burch, 2014; Elfardy and Diab, 2013; Sadat et al,2014; Al-Badrashiny et al, 2015) include creatingdialectal corpora.To the best of our knowledge, K. Darwish pre-sented the only work on Arabizi detection in theliterature (2014).
However, his work focuses onword-level detection.
He collected Arabizi wordsfrom tweets and trained a character-level language52Reference Year Location Participants Data Size of Data Arabizi English Arabic(Keong et al, 2015) 2015 Malysia 20 Arab Post Graduates SMS 200 Messages 35% 50% 10%(Bies et al, 2014) 2014 Egypt 26 Native Arabic Speakers SMS 101,292 Messages 77% - 23%(Alabdulqader et al, 2014) 2014 Saudi Arabia 61 Students and Non-students SMS, BBM, and Whatsapp 3236 Messages 15% 8% 74%(Bianchi, 2012) 2012 Jordan - Online Forum 460,220 Posts 35.5% 17.5% 32%(Al-Khatib and Sabbah, 2008) 2008 Jordan 46 Students SMS 181 Messages 37% 54% 9%Table 1: Percentage of Arabizi Usage in Related Workmodel and a statistical sequence labelling algo-rithm.
In our work, we extract sentence-level fea-tures using Langdetect and train a classifier toidentify Arabizi tweets.3 The Approach3.1 Data Collection and AnnotationWe use geographic information2to stream tweetscoming from within Lebanon and Egypt, wherewe specified the coordinates of each region sep-arately.
We collect two datasets, one from eachcountry, and split each into Arabic and Non-Arabic, shown in Table 2.
The Non-Arabic dataincludes any tweet written in Latin script.
We takethe Non-Arabic data segment, pre-process it, andannotate a sample of 5,000 tweets to be used forreporting the percentage of Arabizi usage and as atraining dataset for the Arabizi identification clas-sifier.Country Tweets Arabic Tweets Non-Arabic TweetsLebanon 60,364 28,340 32,024Egypt 249,149 174,821 74,328Table 2: Distribution of TweetsTwitter data contains a lot of noisy tweets suchas tweets that contain only URLs, hashtags, usermentions, laughter, and spam.
We pre-processthe data to maximize the number of textual tweetsin each of the Non-Arabic dataset.
We filter outURLs, hashtags, user mentions, laughter, exagger-ation, and emojis from tweets.
Though some ofthese features can be used in an extended work forsentiment analysis, for this task we only aim forlanguage identification.
We filter out hashtags be-cause most of them are in English.
We filter outlaughter expressions and exaggerated words be-cause Langdetect misdetects sentences containingwords with repetitive letters.
From the resultingdata, we deleted tweets that contain no text and2https://goo.gl/PFJj3Hduplicated tweets.
We observed from our datasetsthat many tweets aim to gather followers with ex-pressions such as: follow me, follow insta, and fol-low plz.
We consider such tweets as spam and fil-ter out any tweet containing the word follow.
Ourpre-processed Non-Arabic datasets lessened from32,024 to 21,878 for Lebanon and from 74,328 to36,970 for Egypt.We extracted and annotated 5,000 tweets whichwas done manually by one Arab native.
SinceArabizi users might switch between Arabiziand English within a single sentence, we tagArabizi tweets if the number of Arabizi wordsare sufficient to imply that the dominant languageused is Arabizi.
To tag an Arabizi tweet it shouldhave more Arabizi words than English words andthe Arabizi words should consist of nouns andverbs not just connectors and stop words.
Forexample:Tweet: honestly allah y3afeke (recovery wish)that you still cant get over a story thats a yearnot my fault ur ex boyfriend was a *** sara7a(honestly)Arabizi Words < English WordsTag: Not ArabiziTweet: kel marra b2oul monday bade ballesh dietbas emta ha yeje hayda lnhar/Everytime I planto start a diet on monday but when will this daycomeArabizi Words > English WordsTag: ArabiziTweet: eh (yes) God bless your mom w (and) yourfamilyTag: Not ArabiziOut of each sample dataset, we tagged 465Arabzi tweets from Lebanon and 955 Arabizitweets from Egypt.
However, each sample datasetis multi-lingual containing tweets in languagesother than English and Arabizi.
The annotated53datasets can be found on project-rbz.com33.2 Arabizi IdentificationWe utilize Langdetect, a language detectionlibrary that detects one or more languages foreach input sentence, and returns the languagewith the highest confidence score.
Though it doesnot detect Arabizi sentences, it detects irrelevantlanguages when tested against Arabizi.
It maydetect 3 or more languages, or one irrelevantlanguage with high confidence.
We use thosedetections as input features to train a classifier toidentify Arabizi from Twitter data.
For example:Tweet: never been so scared for an examLanguages Detected: {en:0.99}Tweet: kan yom eswed yom ma 3reftk /Itwas a bad day I didn?t recognize youLanguages Detected: {so: 0.42, cy: 0.42, sv:0.14}We use the irrelevant languages detected, thenumber of irrelevant languages, and their con-fidence scores as input features for the Arabiziidentification classifier.3.2.1 Feature SelectionWe extracted the following features during thestreaming and pre-processing of tweets: Languagedetected by Twitter API, languages detected byLangdetect, location of the tweet, country of theuser, language of the user, number of words pertweet, and count of word occurrences per tweet.We extracted (language detected by TwitterAPI, tweet location, country and language of theuser) from each tweet stream, for example:id twt lang twt country usr id usr lang usr country001468231 Hello World EN EGY 48933812 EN EGYWe tested all the features on several classi-fiers and found that the best results are obtainedfrom an SVM classifier using (languages detectedby Langdetect, the language detected by Twit-ter API, and the count of word occurrences pertweet).
The languages detected by Langdetect in-clude: languages predicted, number of predictedlanguages, and the confidence score of each.
Al-though, Langdetect is more accurate than Twit-ter API when tested against our data, adding thelanguage detected by Twitter API to the set of3http://www.project-rbz.com/features improved the overall accuracy of Arabiziidentification.
The count of word occurrences pertweet helps the classifier identify words that arefrequently used in Arabizi.
We disregarded theother features (location of the tweet, country andlanguage of the user, and the number of words pertweet) because they did not have any effect on theclassification results.3.2.2 ClassificationWe run Langdetect against our annotated sam-ple datasets; in Table 3 we present the distribu-tion of languages detected with high confidencescores apart from the manual Arabizi annota-tion.
We note that the other languages detectedCountry Dataset Size English Arabizi French OtherLebanon 5,000 3,242 465 158 1,135Egypt 5,000 2,868 955 0 1,177Table 3: Distribution of Languages in SampleDataare mainly Far-Eastern languages written in Latinscript.
Though there are very few tweets in Span-ish and Dutch, they are negligible.
Far-Easternexpatriates living and working in the Arab regionconstitute a large part of the population.
Ourfindings show that most of the other languagesdetected in our Twitter datasets in Lebanon areFilipino, and Indian in Egypt.
For this experi-ment we filter out all languages other than Englishand Arabizi that have confidence score of 0.7 orhigher from our sample datasets.
The annotateddatasets are lessened to 3,707 tweets for Lebanonand 3,823 for Egypt.
We note that the remain-ing datasets contain multi-lingual tweets howeverthose tweets were not given high confidence scoresby Langdetect.We carry out two experiments, one with our an-notated datasets that are filtered from other lan-guages and another with balanced datasets.
Sincethe ratio of English to Arabizi tweets is very high,we under-sample the annotated-filtered datasets tohave an almost equal number of English to Ara-bizi tweets.
We applied a 10-fold cross validationtechnique in which we split the data into 80% and20% for training and testing respectively, and av-erage the validation results for all folds.544 Results and Discussion4.1 Arabizi UsageIn Table 4 we present the percentage of Arabic vsNon-Arabic tweets in each country.
In Table 5 wepresent the distribution of languages in each of theNon-Arabic sample dataset.Country Tweets Arabic Non-ArabicLebanon 60,364 47% 53%Egypt 249,149 70% 30%Table 4: Arabic vs Non-Arabic TweetsCountry Tweets English Arabizi French OtherLebanon 5,000 65% 9.3% 3% 22.7%Egypt 5,000 57% 19% - 23%Table 5: Distribution of Languages in Non-ArabicTweetsAs it can be seen from the results, the percent-age of Arabizi usage differs in each Arab country.In Lebanon, Arabic and Non-Arabic tweets arealmost equal, however English is dominant inNon-Arabic tweets.
On the other hand, Arabic isdominant in tweets from Egypt.
The total Arabiziusage is 4.9% for Lebanon and 5.7% for Egypt.We also observed that not only do the percentageof Arabizi usage differs between countries butalso they way it is used in text.
In Egypt, mostof the Non-English tweets are written either inEnglish or in Arabizi rather than mixing both insingle tweets as compared to Lebanon.
Also, inEgypt people tend to abbreviate Arabizi words inmany cases by avoiding to write the vowels.
Forexample:Tweet from Egypt:na w nta hn3ml duet m3 b3d /me and you willperform a duet togetherAbbreviations: ana ?
na, enta ?
nta, hane3mal?
hn3ml, ma3 ?
m3, ba3d ?
b3dTweet from Lebanon:bonsoir 7ewalit a3melik add 3ala fb bass i didntfind you can you give me your account /Morning Itried adding you on fb but...Languages: English, French, and Arabizi.4.2 Arabizi IdentificationWe filtered our sample datasets from languagesother than English and Arabizi that were detectedby Langdetect with high confidence scores.
Weselected an SVM classifier with the following fea-tures: Languages detected by Langdetect, the lan-guage detected by Twitter API, and the count ofword occurrences per tweet.
We present the aver-aged 10-fold cross validation results in Table 6.Country Tweets Recall Precision F-Measure AccuracyLebanon 3,707 91 88 88 93Egypt 3,823 96 78 85 96Table 6: Averaged K-Fold Validation Results forSample DatasetsSince Arabizi is only 12% for Lebanon and 25%for Egypt from the Non-Arabic datasets that arefiltered from other languages, shown in Table 3,these datasets are considered imbalanced.
We bal-anced the datasets by undersampling the Englishtweets and repeated the experiment.
We presentthe averaged validation results for the balanceddatasets in Table 7.Country Tweets Recall Precision F-Measure AccuracyLebanon 1,150 97 97 97 97Egypt 2,200 97 97 97 97Table 7: Averaged Validation Results for BalancedSample Datasets4.3 DiscussionOur results show that the percentage of Arabizi us-age in Twitter data across both Lebanon and Egyptis lower than the findings by other researchersin mobile messaging, as shown in Table 1.
Wehypothesize that people prefer to text in Arabizion private mediums since Arabizi is generallyperceived as an informal way of communication.However, 4.9% or 5.7% of a country?s Twitter datais Arabizi, which is a large amount of data thatmight contain valuable information.
Therefore itis important to generate NLP resources to identify,analyse, and process Arabizi data.We found that most of the unidentified Ara-bizi tweets are tweets from Lebanon written inboth English and Arabizi.
Langdetect identifiesmost of such mixed tweets as English.
As forthe false identification, it was due to misidenti-55fication of Far-Eastern tweets.
Neither Langde-tect nor Twitter API was able to correctly iden-tify all Far-Eastern tweets.
The classifier could beenhanced to overcome those errors by extractingword-level features from tweets, such as TF-IDF,n-grams, word lengths, and vowel-consonant ra-tio, and by training it to classify mixed and Far-Eastern tweets.The analysis of Arabizi usage on Twitter for dif-ferent Arab countries provides an insight for re-searchers who tempt to analyse sentiment fromArabic data and for sociolinguistic researcherswho study a language in relation to social fac-tors such as region and dialect.
We believe thatcreating tools to automatically identify Arabizi isa necessary step towards sentiment analysis overthis type of text.
Arabizi identification could beapplied in automatic creation of an Arabizi corpusthat could be used for classification tasks and inautomatic language detection for machine transla-tion tools.Another aspect of research in Arabizi includestransliteration to Arabic.
There are some toolsavailable such as Yamli4, Microsoft Maren5, andGoogle Input Tools6, however those tools are de-signed to help Arab speakers get MSA text by typ-ing Arabizi.
Using transliterators to convert thenatural Arabizi text, such as tweets, may result inbroken Arabic words.
Some researchers are work-ing on Arabizi transliteration as in (Bies et al,2014; May et al, 2014; Chalabi and Gerges, 2012;Darwish, 2014).5 Conclusion and Future WorkIn this work we have studied the usage of Ara-bizi on Twitter and the creation of tools to au-tomatically identify Arabizi from multi-lingualstreams of data.
We collected Twitter data fromLebanon and Egypt and presented the percent-age of each language, particularly Arabizi, pro-viding an important insight for researchers work-ing on the analysis of natural text for the Arab re-gion.
We trained an Arabizi identification classi-fier by annotating sample datasets and extractingfeatures using Langdetect, an existing languagedetection library.
We achieved an average classifi-cation accuracy of 93% and 96% for Lebanon andEgypt datasets respectively.
Our Arabizi identifi-4http://www.yamli.com/5https://goo.gl/3zLLOn6http://www.google.com/inputtools/cation classifier relies on sentence-level features;it could be improved by extracting word-level fea-tures from text.
Our aim is to advance the ArabicNLP research by facilitating analysis on social me-dia data without the need to filter out complex orminority languages.Several researchers have contributed to the anal-ysis of MSA in the literature, which is useful foranalysing formal blogs and news pages.
Howeveranalysing the public?s sentiment requires effort forNSA and Arabizi as most people from the Arabregion express their opinion on social media us-ing their mother tongue in text.
Though NSA andArabizi are written in different scripts, they can beaddressed simultaneously since both share similarchallenges.
We plan to extend this work by ex-ploring the usage of NSA and Arabizi across sev-eral regions, and by identifying dialect on socialmedia.
We follow by trying to extract sentimentfrom NSA and Arabizi which might require thecreation of dialect sentiment lexicons and parsersto process the heterogeneous Arabic social data.ReferencesM Aboelezz.
2009.
Latinised Arabic and connectionsto bilingual ability.
In Papers from the LancasterUniversity Postgraduate Conference in Linguisticsand Language Teaching.Shehab Ahmed, Michel Pasquier, and Ghassan Qadah.2013.
Key issues in conducting sentiment analysison Arabic social media text.
In 9th InternationalConference on Innovations in Information Technol-ogy (IIT), pages 72?77.
IEEE.Mohamed Al-Badrashiny, Heba Elfardy, and MonaDiab.
2015.
Aida2: A hybrid approach for tokenand sentence level dialect identification in Arabic.CoNLL 2015, page 42.Mohammed Al-Kabi, Amal Gigieh, Izzat Alsmadi,Heider Wahsheh, and Mohamad Haidar.
2013.
Anopinion analysis tool for colloquial and standardArabic.
In The 4th International Conference on In-formation and Communication Systems (ICICS).Mohammed N Al-Kabi, Izzat M Alsmadi, Amal HGigieh, Heider A Wahsheh, and Mohamad MHaidar.
2014.
Opinion mining and analy-sis for Arabic language.
International Journalof Advanced Computer Science and Applications(IJACSA), 5(5):181?195.M.
A. Al-Khatib and E. H. Sabbah.
2008.
Lan-guage choice in mobile text messages among Jorda-nian university students.
SKY Journal of Linguistics,21:37?65.56Ebtisam Alabdulqader, Majdah Alshehri, Rana Almur-shad, Alaa Alothman, and Noura Alhakbani.
2014.Computer mediated communication: Patterns & lan-guage transformations of youth in Arabic-speakingpopulations.
Information Technology & ComputerScience (IJITCS), 17(1):85.Basis-Technology.
2012.
The burgeoning challenge ofdeciphering Arabic chat.R.
M. Bianchi.
2012.
3arabizi-when local Arabicmeets global nglish.
Acta Linguistica Asiatica,2(1):89?100.Ann Bies, Zhiyi Song, Mohamed Maamouri, StephenGrimes, Haejoong Lee, Jonathan Wright, StephanieStrassel, Nizar Habash, Ramy Eskander, and OwenRambow.
2014.
Transliteration of Arabizi into Ara-bic orthography: Developing a parallel annotatedArabizi-Arabic script sms/chat corpus.
ANLP 2014,page 93.A.
Chalabi and H. Gerges.
2012.
Romanized ArabicTransliteration.
In 24th International Conference onComputational Linguistics, page 89.R.
Cotterell and C. Callison-Burch.
2014.
A multi-dialect, multi-genre corpus of informal written Ara-bic.
In LREC, pages 241?245.K.
Darwish.
2014.
Arabizi Detection and Conversionto Arabic.
ANLP 2014, page 217.R.
M. Duwairi and I. Qarqaz.
2014.
Arabic sentimentanalysis using supervised classification.
In Interna-tional Conference on Future Internet of Things andCloud (FiCloud), pages 579?583.
IEEE.RM Duwairi, Nizar A Ahmed, and Saleh Y Al-Rifai.2015.
Detecting sentiment embedded in Arabic so-cial media?a lexicon-based approach.
Journal of In-telligent and Fuzzy Systems.H.
Elfardy and M. T. Diab.
2013.
Sentence LevelDialect Identification in Arabic.
In ACL (2), pages456?461.M.
Gibson.
2015.
A framework for measuringthe presence of minority languages in cyberspace.Linguistic and Cultural Diversity in Cyberspace,page 61.S.
A. Jaran and F. A. Al-Haq.
2015.
The use of hybridterms and expressions in colloquial Arabic amongJordanian college students: A sociolinguistic study.English Language Teaching, 8(12):86.Yuen Chee Keong, Othman Rahsid Hameed, andImad Amer Abdulbaqi.
2015.
The use of Arabiziin English texting by Arab postgraduate students atUKM.
The English Literature Journal, 2(2):281?288.Shervin Malmasi, Eshrag Refaee, and Mark Dras.2015.
Arabic dialect identification using a parallelmultidialectal corpus.
In Proceedings of the 14thConference of the Pacific Association for Computa-tional Linguistics (PACLING 2015), Bali, Indonesia,pages 209?217.Jonathan May, Yassine Benjira, and Abdessamad Echi-habi.
2014.
An Arabizi-English Social Media Sta-tistical Machine Translation System.Randa Muhammed, Mona Farrag, Nariman Elshamly,and Nady Abdel-Ghaffar.
2011.
Summary of Ara-bizi or Romanization: The dilemma of writing Ara-bic texts.
In Jil Jadid Conference, pages 18?19.
Uni-versity of Texas at Austin.S.
Nakatani.
2010.
Language Detection Library forJava.Arfath Pasha, Mohamed Al-Badrashiny, Mona T Diab,Ahmed El Kholy, Ramy Eskander, Nizar Habash,Manoj Pooleery, Owen Rambow, and Ryan Roth.2014.
Madamira: A fast, comprehensive tool formorphological analysis and disambiguation of Ara-bic.
In LREC, pages 1094?1101.Fatiha Sadat, Farnazeh Kazemi, and Atefeh Farzindar.2014.
Automatic identification of Arabic languagevarieties and dialects in social media.
Proceedingsof SocialNLP.M A Yaghan.
2008.
?arabizi?
: A contemporary styleof Arabic slang.
Design Issues, 24(2):39?52.O.
F. Zaidan and C. Callison-Burch.
2014.
ArabicDialect Identification.
Computational Linguistics,40(1):171?202.57
