Proceedings of the 54th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics?System Demonstrations, pages 145?150,Berlin, Germany, August 7-12, 2016.c?2016 Association for Computational LinguisticsMediaGist: A cross-lingual analyser of aggregated news andcommentariesJosef SteinbergerUniversity of West BohemiaFaculty of Applied SciencesDepartment of Computer Science and Engineering, NTIS CenterUniverzitni 8, 30614 Pilsen, Czech Republicjstein@kiv.zcu.czAbstractWe introduce MediaGist, an online sys-tem for crosslingual analysis of aggregatednews and commentaries based on summa-rization and sentiment analysis technolo-gies.
It is designed to assist journaliststo detect and explore news topics, whichare controversially reported or discussedin different countries.
News articles fromcurrent week are clustered separately incurrently 5 languages and the clusters arethen linked across languages.
Sentimentanalysis provides a basis to compute con-troversy scores and summaries help to ex-plore the differences.
Recognized entitiesplay an important role in most of the sys-tem?s modules and provide another wayto explore the data.
We demonstrate thecapabilities of MediaGist by listing high-lights from the last week and present arough evaluation of the system.1 IntroductionNews portals publish thousands of articles everyday in various languages.
Making sense out ofsuch data without automated tools is impossible.There are many news aggregators/analysers andeach of them has its strengths.
Google News ag-gregates headlines and displays the stories accord-ing to each reader?s interests.
IBM Watson NewsExplorer gives a more analytical way to read newsthrough linked data visualizations.
Europe MediaMonitor (EMM) produces a summary of news sto-ries clustered near realtime in various languagesand compares how the same events have been re-ported in the media written in different languages.However, there is another source of informationat the news sites ?
commentaries ?
which containvery valuable public opinion about the news top-ics and has not been explored enough yet.
Includ-ing commentaries opens many new use cases forjournalists, agencies, which study public opinion,and partially also for readers.
Controversial top-ics, such as the refugee crisis in Europe, or theVolkswagen?s emission scandal, and their percep-tion in different countries might be itself a sourcefor reporting.
Focusing on such topics shouldbring more traffic and rich discussions to the newsportals.
International agencies or political institu-tions will find useful the comparisons when study-ing particular public opinions.
Crosslingually-organized news and commentaries will be usefulfor readers living in a multicultural environment,as they can quickly find and understand differentviews on the controversial topics.MediaGist1builds on the ideas of news aggre-gators, but adds the comments?
dimension.
It con-tinuously gathers metadata about news articles andtheir commentaries, currently in 5 languages.
Ar-ticles from current week are clustered monolin-gually several times a day.
It extracts entities, la-bels news and commentaries with sentiment scoresand generates summaries on both sides.
It alsolinks the clusters across languages, similarly toEMM.
Having aggregated news on one side andcommentaries on the other side, it compares theinformation by sentiment analysis and summariza-tion.
A different sentiment of news and commen-taries indicate a controversial topic and summarieshelp to identify the difference qualitatively.
Thecrosslingual links allow to discover and exploretopics, which are controversially reported or dis-cussed in different countries.The next section (2) relates MediaGist to thecurrent news aggregation or analytics solutions.Section 3 describes MediGist from inside.
The1MediaGist is running at: http://mediagist.eu.A screencast video can be found at: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ONtKw_l6_X4.145overall architecture is followed by a descriptionof the NLP pipeline.
Section 4 gives an overviewof the system?s functionality and shows highlightsfrom the last week, followed by a rough evaluationof the system, conclusions and future plans.2 Related sitesGoogle News2is an automatic service that aggre-gates headlines from more than 50K news sourcesworldwide, groups similar stories together, anddisplays them according to each reader?s interests.The content is selected and ranked using many fac-tors, e.g.
coverage, freshness, location, relevanceand diversity of the story.
There are more than 70regional editions in many different languages.IBM Watson News Explorer3gives a more an-alytical way to read news.
It gathers 250k articlesa day from 70k sources and converts the unstruc-tured text into entities and concepts, and connectsthe dots through linked data visualizations.EMM NewsBrief4is a summary of news stories(news clusters) from around the world, automati-cally classified according to thousands of criteria.It is updated every 10 minutes, and over 100k ar-ticles in 50+ languages run through it a day.
It au-tomatically detects the stories that are the most re-ported in each language at the moment.
The Alertsystem presents the stories in many different clas-sifications (Atkinson and van der Goot, 2009).The second EMM?s technology, NewsEx-plorer5, allows to see the major news stories invarious languages for any specific day and to com-pare how the same events have been reported indifferent languages (Steinberger et al, 2009).
Itshows the most mentioned names and other auto-matically derived information, eg.
variant namespellings or a list of related entities (Pouliquen andSteinberger, 2009).To summarize, the current systems gathermasses of news articles and cluster them into sto-ries.
Some systems do it in many languages,and few link the stories across languages.
Ana-lytical solutions add information extraction (loca-tions, entities, relations or categories).
However,they do not integrate commentaries, which com-plement well the stories with public opinion.
Me-2https://news.google.com/3http://news-explorer.mybluemix.net/4EMM (Europe Media Monitor) is developedat Joint Research Centre, European Commission:http://emm.newsbrief.eu5http://emm.newsexplorer.eudiaGist adds the commentaries and uses them forvarious monolingual or crosslingual comparisonsresulting in discovering and exploring controver-sies in the whole data.3 System overviewMediaGist processing starts with a crawler (seefigure 1).
It gathers articles and their commentsfrom predefined news sites6.
It creates an RSSfile for each article, which goes down the NLPpipeline.
The pipeline first recognizes entities, inboth the article and its comments, and assigns acrosslingual id to each mention.
The next stepis performed by the sentiment analyser, whichassigns to each article and comment a tonalityscore7.
The coreference resolver then enriches thelist of entity mentions by name part references anddefinite descriptions.
Each entity mention is thenassigned a sentiment score and article commentsare summarized8.
These fully annotated articleRSS files enter the clustering phase.
Every fourhours, for each language, the clusterer takes the ar-ticles published during the current week and cre-ates monolingual clusters.
Since this step, RSSfiles contain information about all articles in thecluster.
The crosslingual linker then adds to eachcluster links to the most similar cluster in otherlanguages.
The last step is creating a summary ofclustered articles and a summary of cluster?s com-ments (already summarized per article before).The RSS now contains all information needed bythe presentation layer, the MediaGist website.3.1 NER and coreferenceThe named entity recognizer is based on JRC-Names9, which is a highly multilingual named en-tity resource for person and organisation names(Steinberger et al, 2011c).
It consists of largelists of names and their many spelling variants (upto hundreds for a single person), including acrossscripts (Steinberger and Pouliquen, 2009).Because the resource does not contain manymorphological variants for Czech, it was extended6Currently, it gathers data from 7 sources in 5 languages:English (theguardian.com), Czech (idnes.cz, ihned.cz,novinky.cz), Italian (corriere.it), French (lemonde.fr) andGerman (spiegel.de).7We call a document-level sentiment ?tonality?.8There can be even thousands of comments attached to asingle article.
This summarization step largely reduces thesize of the data sent further down the pipeline.9https://ec.europa.eu/jrc/en/language-technologies/jrc-names146crawlerNERarticletonalitycommenttonalitysentiment analysercoreferenceresolverarticlecomments'summarizerclustercomments'summarizerclusterarticles'summarizermonolingualclusterercrosslinguallinkerentitysentimentsummarizerplain RSSarticle RSSwith all informationcluster RSS cluster RSSwith allinformationFigure 1: The architecture of MediaGist.by an in-house rule-based morphological analyser.Coreference resolution was inspired by (Stein-berger et al, 2011a).
In the cases of titles, it uses alist of person-title associations semi-automaticallycompiled over the past few years (Pouliquen andSteinberger, 2009).3.2 Sentiment analysisThe sentiment analyser is used for 2 purposes.Assigning first a document-level tonality score??100;+100?
to each article and comment, andsecond, a sentiment score ??100;+100?
to eachentity mention.
It uses highly multilingual andcomparable sentiment dictionaries having similarsizes and based on a common specification, cre-ated by triangulation from English and Spanish(Steinberger et al, 2012).
In the case of the tonal-ity score, it counts subjective terms in an article,resp.
a comment, and in the case of the entityscore, it counts terms around entity mentions.
Itincludes rules for using negation, intensifiers anddiminishers (Steinberger et al, 2011b).
Althoughmachine learning approaches would produce bet-ter sentiment predictions, they require trainingdata per language, and ideally per industry as well.And such data are currently expensive to create.With the rule-based approach, the system can eas-ily process multiple languages.3.3 Clustering and crosslingual linkingThe monolingual clustering algorithm is basedon agglomerative hierarchical clustering with thegroup average strategy (Hastie et al, 2009).
Thearticles are represented by log-likelihood vectorsof its terms and the similarity function is Cosine.Crosslingual linking uses two kinds of features:entities and descriptors from EuroVoc10.
EuroVoc10http://eurovoc.europa.euis a multilingual, multidisciplinary thesaurus cov-ering the activities of the EU, the European Parlia-ment in particular.
It contains terms organized ina hierarchy in 23 EU languages.
Using Eurovocfeatures ensures that the linked clusters share thesame topic.
If at the same time the clusters sharethe same entities11, it is very likely that the clus-ters are about the same story.
A similar approachas in (Steinberger, 2013).3.4 SummarizationThe summarizer is used for three steps of thepipeline.
First, it summarizes article comments,then articles in the cluster and finally comments ofthe cluster.
We use an extractive approach basedon latent semantic analysis, which uses both lex-ical and entity features (Kabadjov et al, 2013).This approach performed well in the Multilingevaluation campaigns12.4 FunctionalityThe systems has two main views to explore themedia data: cluster view and entity view.
We canselect a language, a period (=week) and sort thedata by different criteria13.
Each view containshighlights of the selected period in the left panel.4.1 The cluster viewIt displays title and description, taken from thecentral article of the cluster (see figure 2).
The leftpart shows information about articles and the rightpart about commentaries.
On both sides, it dis-plays generated summaries and aggregated tonal-11The entity ids are unified across languages.12There were already 3 editions of MultiLing?s multilin-gual multi-document summarization shared task: 2011 (Gi-annakopoulos et al, 2011), 2013, and 2015 (Giannakopouloset al, 2015).13The system currently holds data from the last 24 weeks.147Figure 2: The top English cluster from the first week of 2016 (Jan 4th-10th).
The screenshot does notinclude the page header, the left bar with highlights and the footer.
More at http://mediagist.euity figures.
The central part shows entities andtheir sentiment in articles and comments.14At thebottom, you can see links to the related clusters inother languages.MediaGist computes several controversy scoresfor each cluster.
Articles?
vs. comments?
contro-versy compares tonality of articles and comments.The value correspond to the standard deviation ofthe two values.
Entities?
controversy comparessentiment of entity mentions in articles and com-ments.
The value is a macro-average of standarddeviations of each entity sentiment.
Crosslingualrank controversy compares ranks of the cluster indifferent languages.
Clusters are ranked for eachlanguage based on the number of articles.
Thevalue is a standard deviation of logarithms of theranks.
Logarithms give larger weights to the topranks.
This controversy is large if the topic isranked at the top for some languages based onthe coverage, while in other languages it is men-tioned only marginally.
Large Crosslingual articlecontroversy indicates a large difference in articles?tonality among languages.
The value is a stan-dard deviation of average article tonalities acrosslanguages.
This score says whether the topic isreported with the same tonality in different lan-guages or not.
And finally, a large Crosslingualcomment controversy indicates topics which arediscussed with different tonality across languages.The score compares average comment tonalitiesacross languages by the standard deviation.14Tonality/sentiment range is: ?
?100;+100?, green col-umn = positive, orange = neutral, red = negative.4.2 The entity viewThe entity view displays variants of the entityfound in the data (e.g.
for David Bowie in weekJan 11-17, 2016: Bowie (3816 mentions), DavidBowie (914), David (74), singer (60), star (46),musician (33), popstar (5), etc.).
It shows theaggregated entity sentiment in articles and com-ments, which is compared by Articles?
vs. com-ments?
controversy.
The sentiment is summa-rized by the most frequent subjective terms onboth sides.
Because we have also the entitieslinked across languages, we can compute theircrosslingual controversy in articles and in com-ments.
We can then easily find, which entitiesare reported or discussed with different sentimentacross languages.
As an example, Volkswagenis discussed negatively in Czech but positively inGerman (when all periods are selected).4.3 Highlights from the last weekThe most international topic during week (Mar 21-27, 2016) was Fayal Cheffou charged over corerole in Brussels bomb attacks ?
covered well in all5 languages.
The English summary:At least 31 dead and more than 200 injured in bombingsclaimed by Islamic State.
The attackers Brothers Khalid andIbrahim el-Bakraoui have been identified as suicide bombersat the metro station and airport respectively.
Before the Brus-sels attacks, Belgian prosecutors said DNA evidence hadidentified Moroccan-born Laachraoui as an accomplice ofParis attacker Salah Abdeslam.
He was one of several mendetained in police raids on Thursday.
?What we feared hashappened,?
said the Belgian prime minister, Charles Michel,at a press conference.The following story was controversial in cov-erage: Ukrainian pilot given 22-year jail sen-tence by Russian court ?
one of the top clus-148ters in Czech but only few articles in English andFrench.
The same topic was seen as controver-sially reported as well ?
the tonality of Czech ar-ticles was much more negative than English andFrench ones.
A controversially discussed topic:Sanders: ?We have a path towards victory?
afterwin Washington caucuses ?
while positive in En-glish, negative in Czech.
Reasons of the contro-versy can be found in the summaries.Controversial entity in articles: Donald Trump?
negative in English, close to neutral in Italianand French and positive in German and Czech.Difference between sentiment in articles and com-ments: John Key ?
positive in articles but neg-ative in comments (English).
Controversial en-tity in comments: George W. Bush ?
while thesentiment is balanced in English, it is negativein Czech and positive in German.
The most fre-quent sentiment terms indicate the reasons: En-glish: good, helped, better, evil, violence; German:liebesm?uh (love effort), deutlich besser (clearlybetter), Czech: zlo?ciny (crimes), odsuzovat (ac-cusing), ?spatn?y (bad).5 EvaluationWe present a rough evaluation of the key modulesof the system.
We discus results of NER, coref-erence, sentiment analysis and summarization ob-tained in the previous research.
In the case of clus-tering, crosslingual linking and controversy pre-dictions we validated the system output to get thefirst insight of their accuracy.5.1 NER and coreferenceThe precision of the applied NER and coreferencewas measured in Steinberger et al (2011a).
Fromthe current MediaGist?s languages, person recog-nition performs best for French (98.4%) and worstfor Italian (92.1%).
The coreference module re-solves name parts at precision of 98% and persontitle references at 70%.
As the title references havenot been continuously updated yet, several wrongreferences are caused by the missing temporal di-mension.5.2 Sentiment analysisThe accuracy of the sentiment analyser in all Me-diaGist?s languages was measured in Steinbergeret al (2011b).
For news sentences and entity tar-gets, we got the best accuracy for English (74%)and the worst for Italian (66%).
However, inthe case of aggregating the polarities per entityand considering only entities with a larger differ-ence between positive and negative mentions (ex-tremely polar entities), 78% of entity classifica-tions across all languages were correct.5.3 SummarizationThe LSA-based summarizer was evaluated duringthe last edition of the Multiling?s multi-documentsummarization shared task (Giannakopoulos et al,2015) as the top performing system overall (it re-ceived the lowest sum of ranks over all 10 lan-guages).
From the MediaGist?s languages, it per-formed best in Czech, English and French.
Ger-man and Italian was not included.5.4 Clustering and crosslingual linkingIn the case of clustering and crosslingual linking,we asked two annotators to validate the output ofthe system.
The annotators were not fluent speak-ers in all 5 languages, but they had enough knowl-edge to judge the task.
We selected the top 5 En-glish clusters from the first 4 full weeks of 2016.The clusters were ranked based on the number ofcrosslingual links.
The task of the clustering val-idation was to check whether the components ofthe cluster are relevant to the cluster?s topic identi-fied by the title of its central article.
In the case ofthe crosslingual linking, the task was to check thesimilarity of the linked clusters based on their arti-cle titles.
Clustering validation was found not to bethat subjective, the inter-annotator kappa was .89.The validation of crosslingual links was more dif-ficult, the annotators did not always agree (kappawas .63), mainly because of a different view onthe right granularity of the topic (e.g.
the clusterswere both discussing the regugee crisis, but in onelanguage it was about closing the borders and inthe other about a disorder in Germany).
From thetotal of 235 cluster components, 96% were judgedas correct and from the 59 crosslingual links, 76%were pointing to the right cluster of the other lan-guage.5.5 Controversy scoresWe selected the most interesting controversyscore, crosslingual comment controversy, to bejudged by two annotators.
For each crosslinguallink evaluated in 5.4, we took the correspondingcomment summaries (each in a different language)and showed them to an annotator.
Her task was to149assess whether the view of the topic/entities is dif-ferent (controversial) in the two languages or not.The task definition was rather shallow, but stillthere was a fair agreement (kappa was .48).
Wethen produced a gold controversy scores: for in-stance if we had a topic linked across 5 languages,there were 10 combinations judged twice.
TheBoolean judgements were aggregated and normal-ized, resulting in a score between 0 and 1.
Thesegolden scores were then compared against the sys-tem?s crosslingual comment controversy scores byPearson correlation: .51.
Although the correlationis not perfect, the measure can already be useful toindicate controversy.6 ConclusionMediaGist uses language technology to detectcontroversy in world news.
Sentiment analysishelps to identify controversial topics and entitiesacross languages, and via summarization it is pos-sible to explore them in detail.
The controversyscores are much dependent on the quality of sen-timent analysis.
Improving the sentiment mod-ule will directly lead to better predictions.
Fu-ture plans include increasing the data volume onon both vertical (sources) and horizontal (histori-cal data) axes.
This will allow to study the evolu-tion of a news thread or of a person name.
The sys-tem currently consumes raw commentaries.
Rep-resenting a precise opinion of real Internet userswill require to fight trolls and filter the conversa-tions (Mihaylov et al, 2015).AcknowledgmentsThis work was supported by project MediaGist,EUs FP7 People Programme (Marie Curie Ac-tions), no.
630786.
MediaGist.ReferencesM.
Atkinson and E. van der Goot.
2009.
Near realtime information mining in multilingual news.
InProceedings of the 18th International World WideWeb Conference (WWW 2009), pages 1153?1154,Madrid, Spain.G.
Giannakopoulos, M. El-Haj, B. Favre, M. Litvak,J.
Steinberger, and V. Varma.
2011.
TAC2011 Mul-tiLing Pilot Overview.
In TAC 2011 Workshop.G.
Giannakopoulos, J. Kubina, J. Conroy, J. Stein-berger, B. Favre, M. Kabadjov, U. Kruschwitz, andM.
Poesio.
2015.
Multiling 2015: Multilingualsummarization of single and multi-documents, on-line fora, and call-center conversations.
In Proceed-ings of the 16th Annual Meeting of the Special Inter-est Group on Discourse and Dialogue, pages 270?274.
ACL.T.
Hastie, R. Tibshirani, and J. Friedman.
2009.
TheElements of Statistical Learning.
Springer-Verlag.M.
Kabadjov, J. Steinberger, and R. Steinberger.
2013.Multilingual statistical news summarization.
InMultilingual Information Extraction and Summa-rization, volume 2013 of Theory and Applicationsof Natural Language Processing, pages 229?252.Springer.T.
Mihaylov, G. Georgiev, and P. Nakov.
2015.
Find-ing opinion manipulation trolls in news communityforums.
In Proceedings of the 19th CoNLL, pages310?314.
ACL.B.
Pouliquen and R. Steinberger.
2009.
Automaticconstruction of multilingual name dictionaries.
InLearning Machine Translation.
MIT Press.R.
Steinberger and B. Pouliquen.
2009.
Cross-lingual named entity recognition.
In Named Entities- Recognition, Classification and Use, volume 19of Benjamins Current Topics, pages 137?164.
JohnBenjamins Publishing Company.R.
Steinberger, B. Pouliquen, and C. Ignat.
2009.
Us-ing language-independent rules to achieve high mul-tilinguality in text mining.
In Mining Massive DataSets for Security.
IOS-Press, Amsterdam, Holland.J.
Steinberger, J. Belyaeva, J. Crawley, L. Della-Rocca,M.
Ebrahim, M. Ehrmann, M. Kabadjov, R. Stein-berger, and E. Van der Goot.
2011a.
Highly mul-tilingual coreference resolution exploiting a matureentity repository.
In Proceedings of the 8th RANLPConference, pages 254?260.
Incoma Ltd.J.
Steinberger, P. Lenkova, M. Kabadjov, R. Stein-berger, and E. van der Goot.
2011b.
Multilingualentity-centered sentiment analysis evaluated by par-allel corpora.
In Proceedings of the 8th RANLPConference, pages 770?775.R.
Steinberger, B. Pouliquen, M. Kabadjov,J.
Belyaeva, and E. van der Goot.
2011c.
Jrc-names: A freely available, highly multilingualnamed entity resource.
In Proceedings of theInternational RANLP Conference.
Incoma Ltd.J.
Steinberger, M. Ebrahim, M. Ehrmann, A. Hur-riyetoglu, M. Kabadjov, P. Lenkova, R. Steinberger,H.
Tanev, S. Vzquez, and V. Zavarella.
2012.
Cre-ating sentiment dictionaries via triangulation.
Deci-sion Support Systems, 53(4):689 ?
694.R.
Steinberger.
2013.
Multilingual and cross-lingualnews analysis in the europe media monitor (emm).In Multidisciplinary Information Retrieval, volume8201 of LNCS, pages 1?4.
Springer.150
