Proceedings of the 54th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics ?
Student Research Workshop, pages 30?36,Berlin, Germany, August 7-12, 2016.c?2016 Association for Computational LinguisticsImproving Twitter Community Detection through Contextual SentimentAnalysis of TweetsAlron Jan LamCollege of Computer StudiesDe La Salle University2401 Taft Avenue, Malate, Manila, Philippinesalron_lam@dlsu.edu.phAbstractWorks on Twitter community detectionhave yielded new ways to extract valuableinsights from social media.
Through thistechnique, Twitter users can be groupedinto different types of communities suchas those who have the same interests,those who interact a lot, or those whohave similar sentiments about certain top-ics.
Computationally, information is rep-resented as a graph, and community de-tection is the problem of partitioning thegraph such that each community is moredensely connected to each other than to therest of the network.
It has been shown thatincorporating sentiment analysis can im-prove community detection when lookingfor sentiment-based communities.
How-ever, such works only perform sentimentanalysis in isolation without consideringthe tweet?s various contextual information.Examples of these contextual informationare social network structure, and conver-sational, author, and topic contexts.
Dis-regarding these information poses a prob-lem because at times, context is neededto clearly infer the sentiment of a tweet.Thus, this research aims to improve detec-tion of sentiment-based communities onTwitter by performing contextual senti-ment analysis.1 IntroductionTwitter, as a micro-blogging platform, has becomean avenue for people to voice out their opinionsonline.
This gives concerned entities, like policy-makers or brand managers, the chance to hear peo-ple out in an unprecedented way.
However, toeffectively utilize this source of information, themassive amount of tweets must first be processedto be more easily understood (Kavanaugh et al,2012).One such way to achieve this is through com-munity detection, which is a domain-independent,graph-based problem that can be applied to manydifferent disciplines including social media analy-sis.
Its definition is that it is the problem of lookingfor groups of vertices that are more densely con-nected to each other than to the rest of the graph(Papadopoulos et al, 2012; Tang and Liu, 2010).Hence, due to its domain-independence, setting upthe input graph properly according to the desiredapplication is important (Darmon et al, 2014).When applied to Twitter, a wide array of commu-nities can be found, such as communities of userswith similar interests (Lim and Datta, 2012b; Limand Datta, 2012a), communities of users who in-teract frequently (Amor et al, 2015), communitiesof geographically-nearby users (Bakillah et al,2015), or communities of users with similar sen-timents towards a certain topic (Cao et al, 2015),among many other possibilities.Finding these communities can yield insightslike (1) the different kinds of conversations goingon, (2) who participates in them, and (3) what theyare talking about.
These kinds of insights could bevaluable to entities such as policy-makers (Amoret al, 2015).However, most works on Twitter communitydetection are focused on finding communitieswithin social networks based on explicit relation-ships between users, such as following-followerrelationships (Java et al, 2007), or mention/re-tweet relationships (Pearce et al, 2014; Zhang etal., 2012).
An often-overlooked source of infor-mation are the actual contents of the users?
tweets.In some cases, this may not be important.
Butwhen looking for communities of users who sharesimilar sentiments, this could potentially improve30community detection (Deitrick and Hu, 2013).The work of Deitrick and Hu (2013) utilizedsentiment analysis to improve community detec-tion.
In addition to the usual graph edges rep-resenting follower-following relations, they addedmore edge weights between users who expressedthe same sentiments towards the same topic.
Thatis, whenever two users tweet with the same sen-timent polarity (positive or negative) containingthe same hashtag (treated as the topic), their edgeweight is incremented, indicating a stronger rela-tionship between these users.
They showed thatdoing this technique improves community detec-tion according to the modularity score, and this inturn, facilitates better sentiment analysis.However, works like that of Deitrick and Hu(2013) perform sentiment analysis of a tweet inan isolated manner.
That is, various contextual in-formation available for a tweet are totally disre-garded.
Examples of these include conversational(tweets preceding the target tweet in the conver-sation thread), author (tweets recently posted bythe author preceding the target tweet) and topic(recent tweets about the same topic posted beforethe target tweet) context (Ren et al, 2016; Vanzoet al, 2014).
Another example of contextualinformation is social network structure, whereinconnections between users help determine senti-ment polarities by utilizing social theories such asbalance theory ("an enemy of my enemy is myfriend") and homophily ("birds of the same featherflock together") (West et al, 2014; Tan et al,2011).
The aforementioned studies have shownthat incorporating contextual information can im-prove sentiment analysis.Thus, in looking for sentiment-based Twittercommunities wherein there are stronger connec-tions between users having similar sentiments, itmay be beneficial to take a contextual approach tosentiment analysis.2 Twitter Community DetectionThis section compares and contrasts differentworks on Twitter community detection.
Table 1is a summary of all reviewed works and a compar-ison of these works in terms of desired communitytype and edge construction scheme.
The commu-nity detection algorithms and evaluation metricsused by these works are also discussed in this sec-tion.It can be observed in Table 1 that different re-Year Authors CommunityTypesEdge Con-struction2013 Deitrick& WuSocialNetwork-based,Sentiment-basedBased on fol-low, mention,and re-tweetrelationships,and on tweetshaving thesame hashtagsand samesentimentpolarity2014 Darmonet alInteraction-based,Topic-basedBased onmention andre-tweet re-lationships,and on tweetshaving thesame hashtags2015 Bakillahet alInteraction-based,Topic-basedBased on fol-low, mention,and re-tweetrelationships,and on tweetshaving thesame URLsand similartweet content2015 Amoret alSocialNetwork-based,Interaction-basedBased on fol-low, mention,and re-tweetrelationships2015 Cao etal.Sentiment-basedBased ondifferencebetween users?sentimenttrends overtimeTable 1: Twitter Community Detection Works andtheir Desired Community Types, and Edge Con-struction Scheme31search works aimed to identify different types ofcommunities.
These communities are: (1) so-cial network-based (who are in the same socialgroups?
), (2) interaction-based (who frequentlyinteract with each other through re-tweets andmentions?
), (3) topic-based (who talk about thesame things?
), and (4) sentiment-based (who feelthe same way about certain topics?
).It is important to note the different types ofcommunities the works aimed to extract, becausethey largely influence how the community detec-tion problem is set-up.
Since community detectionis a domain-independent problem that applies toany graph structure, performing Twitter commu-nity detection requires that relevant informationbe represented appropriately through the verticesand edges in a graph.
With the input graph laidout, researchers can then select appropriate com-munity detection algorithms to be used.
Lastly,researchers can then choose appropriate metricsfor evaluating their approach.
These three aspectsare discussed in more detail in the following sub-sections.2.1 Edge ConstructionAs previously mentioned, the desired communitytypes largely influence the representation of in-formation as a graph, consisting of vertices andedges.
Although in theory this might not alwaysbe the case, most reviewed works used vertices torepresent users, and consequently, edges to rep-resent relationships between the users.
The worksonly differed in terms of what kind of relationshipsthe edges represented.For works that aimed to identify social groups,that is, communities of people who generally fol-lowed each other within their own communities,edges have generally been used to represent a ?fol-low?
relationship (Amor et al, 2015; Lim andDatta, 2012b; Lim and Datta, 2012a).
On Twit-ter, users ?follow?
other users to ?subscribe?
totheir tweets and be able to see them as they getpublished.
It is important to note that the ?follow?relationship is not necessarily two-way.
That is,if user A follows user B, it is possible that user Bdoes not follow user A.
Given the explicit ?fol-low?
relationships on Twitter, some works haverepresented ?follow?
networks on Twitter in astraightforward manner by using directed edgesto represent these ?follow?
relationships.
As dis-cussed earlier, the goal of these works is usu-ally to find social groups or cliques within thegraph that represent social circles (since peoplewho are friends in real life tend to follow eachother) or people with similar interests (since peo-ple also follow users they may not know person-ally, but whom they are interested in).
This type ofedge construction, since it is straightforward andbased on explicit ?follow?
relationships, is usuallyused in combination with other edge constructionschemes, wherein the ?follow?
relationships deter-mine the existence of edges, while other informa-tion are used to increment edge weights (Deitrickand Hu, 2013).For works that aimed to identify communities ofpeople that interacted with each other frequently,main relationships involved are the ?re-tweet?
and?mention?
relationships (Amor et al, 2015; Dar-mon et al, 2014; Bakillah et al, 2015).
Whenuser A re-tweets a tweet by user B, user A is essen-tially re-publishing the said tweet and propagatingit to his/her own followers.
On the other hand,a mention happens when user A tags user B in atweet.
This either happens when user A simplywants to call user B?s attention to his/her tweet, orwhen user A is replying to one of user B?s tweets.Note that it is possible for users to mention multi-ple users in a single tweet.
Having said that, men-tions or re-tweets between users have been usedto either increment existing edge weights (Amoret al, 2015; Darmon et al, 2014), or to establishthe existence of new edges altogether (Bakillah etal., 2015) in works that sought interaction-basedcommunities.
An example of such a work is thatof Amor et al (2015), where they found what theycalled conversation communities: groups of con-versations with people talking about a topic of in-terest.For works that aimed to identify communitiesof people who were interested in similar top-ics (Bakillah et al, 2015; Darmon et al, 2014;Deitrick and Hu, 2013), hashtags have been usedto establish or strengthen edges between users.Hashtags are a way for Twitter users to tag theirtweet as talking about a certain topic.
These arearbitrarily defined and purely user-generated tagsin the form ?#hashtag?.
Users sometimes tend tocopy other hashtags instead of creating their own,resulting into popular, trending hashtags.
With thisin mind, the idea of topic-based community detec-tion is to look for communities of users who talkabout similar topics identified through the hash-32tags.
For example, if user A tweets with the hash-tag ?#ClimateChange?, and user B also tweets withthe same hashtag, then either more weight is addedto an existing edge between them (Darmon et al,2014; Deitrick and Hu, 2013), or a new edge be-tween the users is created on this basis (Bakillahet al, 2015).For works that aimed to identify communitiesof people sharing similar sentiments, the idea isto establish stronger relationships between userswho feel the same sentiment polarity toward thesame topic (identified through the hashtag) (Caoet al, 2015; Deitrick and Hu, 2013).
For example,if user A tweets ?We are in a bad situation.
#Cli-mateChange?
and user B tweets ?Our world is dy-ing.
#ClimateChange?, then user A and user B?sedge should be added more weight because theirtweets both express negative sentiments about cli-mate change (Deitrick and Hu, 2013).In summary, different community types warrantdifferent edge construction schemes.
However, itis important to note that works on Twitter commu-nity detection do not necessarily utilize just one ofthe aforementioned schemes.
Rather, researchersoftentimes experiment with and combine differ-ent edge construction and weighting schemes tosee which configuration produces the best output(Bakillah et al, 2015; Deitrick and Hu, 2013).2.2 AlgorithmsThe reviewed works on community detection haveused a variety of algorithms, each being appro-priate to different scenarios or constraints.
Forexample, some of the algorithms can handle di-rected and weighted graphs (Xie, 2012; Rosvalland Bergstrom, 2008; Lancichinetti et al, 2011),while some can detect overlapping communities(Xie, 2012; Lancichinetti et al, 2011), while someexecute relatively quickly for large graphs (Xie,2012; Rosvall and Bergstrom, 2008).
These areexamples of factors that the researchers took intoconsideration when choosing their algorithms.
Amore detailed discussion of each work follows.Deitrick and Hu (2013) chose the SpeakerListener Propagation Algorithm, or SLPA, (Xie,2012) and the Infomap algorithm (Rosvall andBergstrom, 2008) for community detection as theyboth work with weighted and directed graphs,and they both execute relatively quickly on largegraphs.
In addition, SLPA can identify overlap-ping communities.Darmon et al (2014) chose the Order StatisticsLocal Optimization Method, or OSLOM, (Lanci-chinetti et al, 2011) for community detection be-cause of its ability to work with weighted and di-rected graphs, and its ability to identify overlap-ping communities.Bakillah et al (2015) chose the Fast-GreedyOptimization of Modularity, or FGM, (Clauset etal., 2004) for its ability to handle complex socialgraphs from Twitter, and the Varied Density-BasedSpatial Clustering of Applications with Noise, orVDBSCAN, (Liu et al, 2007) for its ability to ob-tain spatial clusters at certain points in time.Amor et al (2015) chose the Markov Stability(Delvenne et al, 2010) due to its mechanism ofmodeling information flow.
The primary goal oftheir research was to understand the Twitter dis-cussion on the care.data program in terms of infor-mation flow and the roles that Twitter users play.Hence, their selection of Markov Stability fits theirgoals.Lastly, Cao et al (2015) chose to use Heirar-chical Agglomerative Clustering (Jain and Dubes,1988) based on sentiment distance.
Since theywere focused on looking for communities withsimilar sentiments, the clustering method is appro-priate for this task.2.3 EvaluationTo evaluate their approaches, researchers of re-lated works have used quantitative and/or quali-tative analysis.
Quantitative analysis usually en-tails optimizing some metric, like the well-knownmodularity score (Newman, 2006), which indi-cates how well-formed the communities are as op-posed to randomly generated communities.
Otherworks have also performed experiments in whichthey pre-determined the communities beforehand,treating the community detection problem as a?classification?
problem of placing vertices intheir proper communities.
As such, these workshave used precision and recall to evaluate their ap-proach (Bakillah et al, 2015).
However, the man-ual pre-determination of communities beforehandcan be a difficult task, so this kind of evaluationmethodology is not too popular, making metricoptimization as the more common evaluation ap-proach.
Exact numerical results of these studiesare not discussed here because direct comparisonof results is not appropriate due to differences indatasets and types of communities being detected.33Year Authors Level ofSentimentAnalysisContextualInformationUsed2016 Ren etal.Document-level(tweet)Conversational,Author, TopicContext2014 Vanzo etal.Document-level(tweet)ConversationalContext2014 West etal.User-level(towardsanotheruser)Social Net-work Struc-ture2011 Tan et al User-level(towards atopic)Social Net-work Struc-tureTable 2: Contextual Sentiment Analysis Worksand their Levels of Sentiment Analysis and Con-textual Information UsedOn the other hand, researchers also use quali-tative analyses in the form of case studies.
Usu-ally, this comes in the form of a discussion onthe insights acquired from the community detec-tion approach.
For example, Amor et al (2015)discussed in their work how their approach wasable to reveal insights into who were concernedabout the care.data program in the UK (politicalactivists, media, UK healthcare professionals, andUS healthcare professionals) and what they wereconcerned about (data privacy, impact on patientwelfare, etc).
Other works like that of Cao et al(2015) also involved interviewing domain expertsand asking them to evaluate whether communitydetection results would be useful to them or othersin the field whose tasks involve analyzing socialmedia data.3 Contextual Sentiment AnalysisThis section compares and contrasts differentworks on Contextual Sentiment Analysis.
Shownin Table 2 is a summary of reviewed works and acomparison of these works in terms of level of sen-timent analysis and context types considered.
Thealgorithms and evaluation metrics used by theseworks are also discussed in the section.3.1 Sentiment Analysis TypesIt can be seen in Table 2 that for the reviewedworks, there are two levels of sentiment analy-sis: document-level and person-level.
A docu-ment is essentially a collection of sentences.
In thecase of Ren et al (2016), Vanzo et al (2014), andTan et al (2011), having Twitter as the domain,a document refers to a tweet.
While in the caseof West et al (2014) with Wikipedia discussionsand US Congress speeches as the domain, a docu-ment refers to a person?s post and speech respec-tively.
Document-level sentiment analysis usuallyinvolves utilizing lexical information found in thetext.On the other hand, person-level sentiment anal-ysis focuses on determining the overall sentimentof a person towards a particular person on topic,as opposed to focusing on each individual docu-ment a person generates.
For example, say it isdesirable to determine user A?s sentiment towardsObama based on his/her tweets.
Person-level sen-timent analysis would then require considerationof all user A?s tweets about Obama, instead of justdetermining the conveyed sentiment in each tweet.For most related works, document-level sentimentanalysis is performed as a sub-task of person-levelsentiment analysis (West et al, 2014; Tan et al,2011).3.2 Context TypesIn addition to using textual information for senti-ment analysis, the reviewed works utilized a vari-ety of contextual information.
The principle is thatthese provide more knowledge needed to performmore accurate sentiment analysis.For document-level sentiment analysis (tweet-level in this case), context types used by Ren etal.
(2016) and Vanzo et al (2014) are conversa-tional, author and topic.
Having Twitter as thedomain, conversational context was defined as themost recent l tweets preceeding a target tweet inthe conversation it belongs to.
Author context wasdefined by Ren et al (2016) as the most recent ltweets posted by a user before the target tweet.Lastly, topic context was defined by Ren et al(2016) as the most recent l tweets posted beforethe target tweet that shares at least one hashtagwith the target tweet.
The rationale is that the tex-tual information found in a single tweet may beambiguous, and thus, insufficient to clearly deter-mine its sentiment polarity.
Therefore, taking intoaccount the aforementioned contexts can fill in thesaid gap.For person-level sentiment analysis, social net-34work structure has been used by West et al (2014)and Tan et al (2011) as contextual information.These works rely on theories about social behaviorsuch as balance theory ("an enemy of my enemyis my friend") and homophily ("birds of the samefeather flock together") to complement document-level sentiment analysis based on the documenttext.
The idea is that information gained frompeople?s connections or interactions can help de-termine a person?s sentiment towards a topic (Tanet al, 2011) or another user (West et al, 2014).3.3 MetholodgyRen et al (2016), with document-level sentimentanalysis as the goal, represented words found inthe target tweet and in contextual tweets (conver-sational, author, and topic, as explained in theprevious sub-section) through word embeddings.They then train a convolutional neural network toclassify the target tweet?s sentiment polarity giventhese input features.Vanzo et al (2014), with document-level senti-ment analysis as the goal, use a Markovian for-mulation of the Support Vector Machine modelto classify a target tweet given the precedingtweets in its conversational context.
They repre-sent tweets through bag of words, a distributedlexical semantic model, a user sentiment incli-nation profile, and various combinations of thesethree.West et al (2014), with person-level sentimentanalysis (towards another person) as the goal, usea scheme they call "triangle balance" in which theyminimize a cost function that applies penalties forgoing against the sentiment model and for goingagainst the social theories they used.
The set-ting of cost parameters was done through machinelearning.Tan et al (2011), with person-level sentimentanalysis (towards a topic) as the goal, use a factor-graph model for estimating the probability of eachpolarity for a given person.
They experiment onlearning and no-learning approaches in setting thenecessary parameters.Since the determination of sentiment polaritiesis generally a classification problem, most of thereviewed works evaluated their results throughmetrics common to classification tasks like preci-sion, recall, F-measure, accuracy, and ROC.4 ConclusionBased on the review of related works, it can beseen that the desired community types largely dic-tate the edge construction scheme used in the in-put graphs.
Furthermore, it has been shown thatusing sentiment analysis to modify edge weightswhen performing community detection can im-prove the detection of sentiment-based communi-ties (Deitrick and Hu, 2013).
The idea is that userswho feel the same about a particular topic shouldhave a stronger connection.However, one possible improvement over thework of (Deitrick and Hu, 2013) is to performcontextual sentiment analysis.
This is becausevarious contextual information, such as conversa-tional, author, and topic context, along with socialnetwork structure, have been shown to improvesentiment analysis (Ren et al, 2016; Vanzo et al,2014; West et al, 2014; Tan et al, 2011).
Theassumption is that the improvement in sentimentanalysis will improve the modification of edgeweights (and therefore, the representation of con-nection between users) and consequently, improvesentiment-based community detection.
Evalua-tion can be through quantitative analysis by usingwell-known metrics in community detection, suchas modularity, or through qualitative analysis byperforming case studies.
Analysis of the resultscan provide insight on which contextual informa-tion provide the most improvement in the task ofsentiment-based community detection on Twitter.ReferencesB Amor, S Vuik, Ryan Callahan, Ara Darzi, Sophia NYaliraki, and Mauricio Barahona.
2015.
Com-munity detection and role identification in directednetworks: understanding the twitter network of thecare.
data debate.
arXiv preprint arXiv:1508.03165.Mohamed Bakillah, Ren-Yu Li, and Steve HL Liang.2015.
Geo-located community detection in twit-ter with enhanced fast-greedy optimization of mod-ularity: the case study of typhoon haiyan.
Interna-tional Journal of Geographical Information Science,29(2):258?279.Nan Cao, Lu Lu, Yu-Ru Lin, Fei Wang, and Zhen Wen.2015.
Socialhelix: visual analysis of sentiment di-vergence in social media.
Journal of Visualization,18(2):221?235.Aaron Clauset, Mark EJ Newman, and CristopherMoore.
2004.
Finding community structure in verylarge networks.
Physical review E, 70(6):066111.35David Darmon, Elisa Omodei, and Joshua Garland.2014.
Followers are not enough: A question-oriented approach to community detection in onlinesocial networks.
arXiv preprint arXiv:1404.0300.William Deitrick and Wei Hu.
2013.
Mutually enhanc-ing community detection and sentiment analysis ontwitter networks.J-C Delvenne, Sophia N Yaliraki, and Mauricio Bara-hona.
2010.
Stability of graph communities acrosstime scales.
Proceedings of the National Academyof Sciences, 107(29):12755?12760.Anil K Jain and Richard C Dubes.
1988.
Algorithmsfor clustering data.
Prentice-Hall, Inc.Akshay Java, Xiaodan Song, Tim Finin, and BelleTseng.
2007.
Why we twitter: understanding mi-croblogging usage and communities.
In Proceed-ings of the 9th WebKDD and 1st SNA-KDD 2007workshop on Web mining and social network analy-sis, pages 56?65.
ACM.Andrea L Kavanaugh, Edward A Fox, Steven D Sheetz,Seungwon Yang, Lin Tzy Li, Donald J Shoemaker,Apostol Natsev, and Lexing Xie.
2012.
Social me-dia use by government: From the routine to the criti-cal.
Government Information Quarterly, 29(4):480?491.Andrea Lancichinetti, Filippo Radicchi, Jos?
J Ram-asco, and Santo Fortunato.
2011.
Finding statis-tically significant communities in networks.
PloSone, 6(4):e18961.Kwan Hui Lim and Amitava Datta.
2012a.
Findingtwitter communities with common interests usingfollowing links of celebrities.
In Proceedings of the3rd international workshop on Modeling social me-dia, pages 25?32.
ACM.Kwan Hui Lim and Amitava Datta.
2012b.
Followingthe follower: detecting communities with commoninterests on twitter.
In Proceedings of the 23rd ACMconference on Hypertext and social media, pages317?318.
ACM.Peng Liu, Dong Zhou, and Naijun Wu.
2007.
Vdb-scan: varied density based spatial clustering of ap-plications with noise.
In Service Systems and Ser-vice Management, 2007 International Conferenceon, pages 1?4.
IEEE.Mark EJ Newman.
2006.
Modularity and communitystructure in networks.
Proceedings of the nationalacademy of sciences, 103(23):8577?8582.Symeon Papadopoulos, Yiannis Kompatsiaris, AthenaVakali, and Ploutarchos Spyridonos.
2012.
Com-munity detection in social media.
Data Mining andKnowledge Discovery, 24(3):515?554.Warren Pearce, Kim Holmberg, Iina Hellsten, andBrigitte Nerlich.
2014.
Climate change on twit-ter: Topics, communities and conversations aboutthe 2013 ipcc working group 1 report.
PloS one,9(4):e94785.Yafeng Ren, Yue Zhang, Meishan Zhang, andDonghong Ji.
2016.
Context-sensitive twitter sen-timent classification using neural network.
AAAI.Martin Rosvall and Carl T Bergstrom.
2008.
Maps ofrandom walks on complex networks reveal commu-nity structure.
Proceedings of the National Academyof Sciences, 105(4):1118?1123.Chenhao Tan, Lillian Lee, Jie Tang, Long Jiang, MingZhou, and Ping Li.
2011.
User-level sentimentanalysis incorporating social networks.
In Proceed-ings of the 17th ACM SIGKDD international con-ference on Knowledge discovery and data mining,pages 1397?1405.
ACM.Lei Tang and Huan Liu.
2010.
Community detec-tion and mining in social media.
Synthesis Lectureson Data Mining and Knowledge Discovery, 2(1):1?137.Andrea Vanzo, Danilo Croce, and Roberto Basili.2014.
A context-based model for sentiment analy-sis in twitter.
In COLING, pages 2345?2354.Robert West, Hristo S Paskov, Jure Leskovec, andChristopher Potts.
2014.
Exploiting social net-work structure for person-to-person sentiment anal-ysis.
arXiv preprint arXiv:1409.2450.Jierui Xie.
2012.
Agent-based dynamics modelsfor opinion spreading and community detection inlarge-scale social networks.
Ph.D. thesis, Rensse-laer Polytechnic Institute.Yang Zhang, Yao Wu, and Qing Yang.
2012.
Com-munity discovery in twitter based on user inter-ests.
Journal of Computational Information Sys-tems, 8(3):991?1000.36
