Proceedings of the 54th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics, pages 834?842,Berlin, Germany, August 7-12, 2016.c?2016 Association for Computational LinguisticsCoordination Annotation Extension in the Penn Tree BankJessica FiclerComputer Science DepartmentBar-Ilan UniversityIsraeljessica.ficler@gmail.comYoav GoldbergComputer Science DepartmentBar-Ilan UniversityIsraelyoav.goldberg@gmail.comAbstractCoordination is an important and commonsyntactic construction which is not han-dled well by state of the art parsers.
Co-ordinations in the Penn Treebank are miss-ing internal structure in many cases, do notinclude explicit marking of the conjunctsand contain various errors and inconsisten-cies.
In this work, we initiated manual an-notation process for solving these issues.We identify the different elements in a co-ordination phrase and label each elementwith its function.
We add phrase bound-aries when these are missing, unify incon-sistencies, and fix errors.
The outcome isan extension of the PTB that includes con-sistent and detailed structures for coordi-nations.
We make the coordination anno-tation publicly available, in hope that theywill facilitate further research into coordi-nation disambiguation.11 IntroductionThe Penn Treebank (PTB) (Marcus et al, 1993)is perhaps the most commonly used resource fortraining and evaluating syntax-based natural lan-guage processing systems.
Despite its widespreadadoption and undisputed usefulness, some of theannotations in PTB are not optimal, and could beimproved.
The work of Vadas and Curran (2007)identified and addressed one such annotation defi-ciency ?
the lack of internal structure in base NPs.In this work we focus on the annotation of coordi-nating conjunctions.Coordinating conjunctions (e.g.
?John andMary?, ?to be or not to be?)
are a very commonsyntactic construction, appearing in 38.8% of the1The data is available in:https://github.com/Jess1ca/CoordinationExtPTBsentences in the PTB.
As noted by Hogan (2007),coordination annotation in the PTB are not con-sistent, include errors, and lack internal structurein many cases (Hara et al, 2009; Hogan, 2007;Shimbo and Hara, 2007).
Another issue is thatPTB does not mark whether a punctuation is partof the coordination or not.
This was resolved byMaier et al (2012) which annotated punctuationin the PTB .These errors, inconsistencies, and in particularthe lack of internal structural annotation turned re-searchers that were interested specifically in co-ordination disambiguation away from the PTBand towards much smaller, domain specific effortssuch as the Genia Treebank (Kim et al, 2003) ofbiomedical texts (Hara et al, 2009; Shimbo andHara, 2007).In addition, we also find that the PTB annota-tion make it hard, and often impossible, to cor-rectly identify the elements that are being coordi-nated, and tell them apart from other elements thatmay appear in a coordination construction.
Whilemost of the coordination phrases are simple andinclude only conjuncts and a coordinator, manycases include additional elements with other syn-tactic functions , such as markers (e.g.
?Both Al-ice and Bob?
), connectives (e.g.
?Fast and thususeful?)
and shared elements (e.g.
?Bob?s prin-ciples and opinions?)
(Huddleston et al, 2002).The PTB annotations do not differentiate betweenthese elements.
For example, consider the follow-ing coordination phrases which begin with a PP:(a) ?
[in the open market]PP, [in private transac-tions] or [otherwise].?
(b) ?
[According to Fred Demler]PP, [High-land Valley has already started operating] and[Cananea is expected to do so soon].
?Even though the first element is a conjunctonly in (a), both phrases are represented with the834marked elements as siblings.Our goal in this work is to fix these deficiencies.We aim for an annotation in which:?
All coordination phrases are explicitlymarked and are differentiated from non-coordination structures.?
Each element in the coordination structure isexplicitly marked with its role within the co-ordination structure.?
Similar structures are assigned a consistentannotation.We also aim to fix existing errors involving coordi-nation, so that the resulting corpus includes as fewerrors as possible.
On top of these objectives, wealso like to stay as close as possible to the originalPTB structures.We identify the different elements that can par-ticipate in a coordination phrase, and enrich thePTB by labeling each element with its function.We add phrase boundaries when these are missing,unify inconsistencies, and fix errors.
This is donebased on a combination of automatic processingand manual annotation.
The result is an extensionof the PTB trees that include consistent and moredetailed coordination structures.
We release ourannotation as a diff over the PTB.The extended coordination annotation fills animportant gap in wide-scale syntactic annotationof English syntax, and is a necessary first step to-wards research on improving coordination disam-biguation.2 BackgroundCoordination is a very common syntactic struc-ture in which two or more elements are linked.An example for a coordination structure is ?Al-ice and Bob traveled to Mars?.
The elements (Al-ice and Bob) are called the conjuncts and and iscalled the coordinator.
Other coordinator wordsinclude or, nor and but.
Any grammatical functioncan be coordinated.
For examples: ?
[relativelyactive]ADJPbut [unfocused]ADJP?
; ?
[in]INand [out]INthe market?.
While it is common forthe conjuncts to be of the same syntactic category,coordination of elements with different syntacticcategories are also possible (e.g.
?Alice will visitEarth [tomorrow]NPor [in the next decade]PP?
).Less common coordinations are those with non-constituent elements.
These are cases such as?equal to or higher than?, and coordinations fromthe type of Argument-Cluster (e.g.
?Alice has vis-ited 4 planets in 2014 and 3 more since then?)
andGapping (e.g.
?Bob lives in Earth and Alice inSaturn?)
(Dowty, 1988).2.1 Elements of Coordination StructureWhile the canonical coordination cases involveconjuncts linked with a coordinator, other ele-ments may also take part in the coordination struc-ture: markers, connective adjectives, parentheti-cals, and shared arguments and modifiers.
Theseelements are often part of the same syntacticphrase as the conjuncts, and should be taken intoaccount in coordination structure annotation.
Weelaborate on the possible elements in a coordina-tion phrase:Shared modifiers Modifiers that are related toeach of the conjuncts in the phrase.
For instance,in ?Venus?s density and mean temperature arevery high?, Venus?s is a shared modifier of the con-juncts ?density?
and ?mean temperature?2.Shared arguments Phrases that function as ar-guments for each of the conjuncts.
For instance, in?Bob cleaned and refueled the spaceship.
?, ?thespaceship?
and ?Bob?
are arguments of the con-juncts cleaned and refuel3.Markers Determiners such as both and eitherthat may appear at the beginning of the coordi-nation phrase (Huddleston et al, 2002).
As forexample in ?Both Alice and Bob are Aliens?
and?Either Alice or Bob will drive the spaceship?.In addition to the cases documented by Huddle-ston et al our annotation of the Penn Treebankdata reveals additional markers.
For examples:?between 15 million and 20 million ; ?first andsecond respectively?.Connective adjectives Adverbs such as so, yet,however, then, etc.
that commonly appear right af-ter the coordinator (Huddleston et al, 2002).
Forinstance ?We plan to meet in the middle of the wayand then continue together?.Parenthetical Parenthetical remarks that mayappear between the conjuncts.
For examples:2Here, the NP containing the coordination (?Venus?s den-sity and mean temperature?)
is itself an argument of ?are veryhigh?.3While both are shared arguments, standard syntacticanalyses consider the subject (Bob) to be outside the VP con-taining the coordination, and the direct object (the spaceship)as a part of the VP.835?The vacation packages include hotel accommo-dations and, in some cases, tours?
; ?Some showsjust don?t impress, he says, and this is one ofthem?.Consider the coordinated PP phrase in ?Alicetraveled [both inside and outside the galaxy]PP.
?Here, inside and outside are the conjuncts, both isa marker, and ?the galaxy?
is a shared argument.A good representation of the coordination struc-ture would allow us to identify the different ele-ments and their associated functions.
As we showbelow, it is often not possible to reliably extractsuch information from the existing PTB annota-tion scheme.3 Coordinations in the Penn Tree BankWe now turn to describe how coordination is han-dled in the PTB, focusing on the parts where wefind the annotation scheme to be deficient.There is no explicit annotation for coordinationphrases Some coordinators do not introduce acoordination structure.
For example, the coordi-nator ?and?
can be a discourse marker connect-ing two sentences (e.g.
?And they will even serveit themselves?
), or introduce a parenthetical (e.g.
?The Wall Street Journal is an excellent publica-tion that I enjoy reading (and must read) daily?
).These are not explicitly differentiate in the PTBfrom the case where ?and?
connects between atleast two elements (e.g.
?loyalty and trust?
).NPs without internal structure The PTBguidelines (Bies et al, 1995) avoid giving anystructure to NPs with nominal modifiers.
Follow-ing this, 4759 NPs that include coordination wereleft flat, i.e.
all the words in the phrase are atthe same level.
For example (NP (NNP chairman)(CC and) (NP chief executive officer)) which is an-notated in the PTB as:[1]NPNNchairmanCCandJJchiefNNexecutiveNNofficerIt is impossible to reliably extract conjunctboundaries from such structures.
Although workhas been done for giving internal structures for flatNPs (Vadas and Curran, 2007), only 48% of theflat NP coordinators that include more than twonouns were given an internal structure, leaving1744 cases of flat NPs with ambiguous conjunctboundaries.Coordination parts are not categorized Co-ordination phrases may include markers, sharedmodifiers, shared arguments, connective adjec-tives and parentheticals.
Such elements are anno-tated on the same level as the conjuncts4.
This istrue not only in the case of flat NPs but also incases where the coordination phrase elements dohave internal structures.
For examples:?
The Both marker in (NP (DT both) (NP theself) (CC and) (NP the audience))?
The parenthetical maybe in (NP (NP predic-tive tests) (CC and) (PRN , maybe ,) (NP newtherapies))?
The shared-modifier ?the economy?s?
in (NP(NP the economy?s) (NNS ups) (CC and)(NNS downs))Automatic categorization of the phrases ele-ments is not trivial.
Consider the coordinationphrase ?a phone, a job, and even into a school?,which is annotated in the PTB where the NPs ?aphone?
and ?a job?, the ADVP ?even?
and the PP?into a school?
are siblings.
A human reader caneasily deduce that the conjuncts are ?a phone?,?a job?
and ?into a school?, while ?even?
is aconnective.
However, for an automatic analyzer,this structure is ambiguous: NPs can be conjoinedwith ADVPs as well as PPs, and a coordinationphrase of the form NP NP CC ADVP PP has atleast two possible interpretations: (1) Coord Co-ord CC Conn Coord (2) Coord Coord CC CoordShared.Inconsistency in shared elements and mark-ers level The PTB guidelines allows inconsis-tency in the case of shared ADVP pre-modifiersof VPs (e.g.
?deliberately chewed and winked?
).The pre-modifier may be annotated in the samelevel of the VP ((ADVP deliberately) (VP chewedand winked)) or inside it (VP (ADVP deliberately)chewed and winked)).
In addition to this docu-mented inconsistency, we also found markers thatare inconsistently annotated in and outside the co-ordination phrase, such as respectively which is4shared arguments may appear in the PTB outside the co-ordination phrase.
For example He is an argument for boughtand for sold in ((He) ((bought) (and) (sold) (stocks))).836tagged as sibling to the conjuncts in (NP (NP Feb.1 1990) (CC and) (NP May.
3 1990), (ADVP re-spectively)) and as sibling to the conjuncts par-ent in (VP (VBD were) (NP 7.37% and 7.42%),(ADVP respectively)).Inconsistency in comparative quantity coordi-nation Quantity phrases with a second conjunctof more, less, so, two and up are inconsistentlytagged.
Consider the following sentences: ?
[50][or] [so] projects are locked up?, ?Street esti-mates of [$ 1] [or so] are low?.
The coordina-tion phrase is similar in both the sentences but isannotated differently.Various errors The PTB coordination struc-tures include errors.
Some are related to flat co-ordinations (Hogan, 2007).
In addition, we foundcases where a conjunct is not annotated as a com-plete phrase, but with two sequenced phrases.
Forinstance, the conjuncts in the sentence ?But lessthan two years later, the LDP started to crumble,and dissent rose to unprecedented heights?
are?the LDP started to crumble?
and ?dissent rose tounprecedented heights?.
In the PTB, this sentenceis annotated where the first conjunct is splitted intotwo phrases: ?
[the LDP] [started to crumble], and[dissent rose to unprecedented heights]?.4 Extended Coordination AnnotationThe PTB annotation of coordinations makes it dif-ficult to identify phrases containing coordinationand to distinguish the conjuncts from the otherparts of a coordination phrase.
In addition it con-tains various errors, inconsistencies and coordina-tion phrases with no internal structure.
We pro-pose an improved representation which aims tosolve these problems, while keeping the deviationfrom the original PTB trees to a minimum.4.1 Explicit Function MarkingWe add function labels to non-terminal symbolsof nodes participating in coordination structures.The function labels are indicated by appending a-XXX suffix to the non-terminal symbol, wherethe XXX mark the function of the node.
Phrasescontaining a coordination are marked with a CCPlabel.
Nodes directly dominated by a CCP nodeare assigned one of the following labels accord-ing to their function: CC for coordinators, CO-ORD for conjuncts, MARK for markers5, CONNfor connectives and parentheticals, and SHAREDfor shared modifiers/arguments.
For shared el-ements, we deal only with those that are insidethe coordination phrase.
We do not assign func-tion labels to punctuation symbols and empty el-ements.
For example, our annotation for the sen-tence ?.
.
.
he observed among his fellow studentsand, more important, among his officers and in-structors .
.
.
?
is:PPCCPPPCOORDamong hisfellow studentsCCCCandADVPCONNmore importantPPCOORDINamongNPCCPPRPSHAREDhisNNSCOORDofficersCCCCandNNSCOORDinstructorsTable 1 summarizes the number of labels foreach type in the enhanced version of the PennTreebank.Function label #CC 24,572CCP 24,450COORD 52,512SHARED 3372CONN 526MARK 522Table 1: The number of labels that were added tothe Penn Treebank by type.4.2 Changes in Tree StructureAs a guiding principle, we try not to change thestructure of the original PTB trees.
The excep-tions to this rule are cases where the structureis changed to provide internal structure whenit is missing, as well as when fixing systematicinconsistencies and occasional errors.1.
In flat coordination structures which includeelements with more than one word, we add brack-ets to delimit the element spans.
For instance, inthe flat NP in [1] we add brackets to delimit theconjunct ?chief executive officer?.
The full phrase5both, either, between, first, neither, not, not only, respec-tively and together837structure is: (NP-CCP (NN-COORD chairman)(CC-CC and) (NP-COORD chief executive offi-cer)).2.
Comparative quantity phrases (?5 dollars orless?)
are inconsistently analyzed in the PTB.When needed, we add an extra bracket with aQP label so they are consistently analyzed as?5 dollars [or less]QP?.
Note that we do notconsider these cases as coordination phrases.3.
We add brackets to delimit the coordinationphrase in flat cases that include coordination be-tween modifiers while the head is annotated in thesame phrase:NPDTTheNNbroadcastCCandVBGpublishingNNcompany?NPDTTheUCP-CCPNN-COORDbroadcastCC-CCandVBG-COORDpublishingNNcompanycompany, which is the head of the phrase, isoriginally annotated at the same level as theconjuncts broadcast and publishing, and thedeterminer the.
In such cases, the determiner andmodifiers are related to the head which is not partof the coordination phrase, requiring the extrabracketing level to delimit the coordination.
Thisis in contrast to the case of coordination betweenverbs (e.g ?Bob (VP cleaned and refueled thespaceship)?
), where the non coordinated elements(?the spaceship?)
are shared.4.
When a conjunct is split into two phrases ormore due to an error, we add extra brackets to de-limit the conjunct as a complete phrase:SNPManagement?stotalVPcould bereducedCCandSNPthe publicVPcould get more?Type #(1) Flat structures 1872(2) Comparative quantity phrases 52(3) Coordination between modifiers 1264(4) Coordination with errors 213(5) ADVP inconsistency 206Table 2: The number of subtrees in the Penn Tree-bank that were changed in our annotation by type.S-CCPS-COORDNPManagement?stotalVPcould bereducedCC-CCandS-COORDNPthe publicVPcould get more5.
We consolidate cases where markers and ADVPpre-modifiers are annotated outside the coordina-tion phrase, so they are consistently annotated in-side the coordination phrase.Table 2 summarizes the numbers and types ofsubtrees that receive a new tree structure in the en-hanced version of the Penn Treebank.5 The Annotation ProcessSome of the changes can be done automatically,while other require human judgment.
Our annota-tion procedure combines automatic rules and man-ual annotation that was performed by a dedicatedannotator that was trained for this purpose.5.1 Explicit marking of coordination phrasesWe automatically annotate coordination phraseswith a CCP function label.
We consider a phraseas coordination phrase if it includes a coordinatorand at least one phrase on each side of the coor-dinator, unlike coordinators that function as dis-course markers or introduce parentheticals, whichappear as the first element in the phrase.5.2 Assigning internal structure to flatcoordinationsFlat coordinations that include only a coordinatorand two conjuncts (e.g.
(NP (NNP Poland) (CCand) (NNP Hungary))) are trivial and are left withthe same structure.
For the rest of the flat co-ordinations (3498 cases), we manually annotatedthe elements spans.
For example, given the flat838NP: ?[General]NNP[Electric]NNP[Co.]NNP[executives]NNS[and]CC[lawyers]NNS?.
Theannotator is expected to provide the analysis:?
[General Electric Co.] [executives] [and][lawyers]?.
We then add brackets around multi-token elements (e.g.
?General Electric Co.?
), andset the label according the syntactic structure.
Theannotation was done while ignoring inner struc-tures that were given in the NP-Bracketing exten-sion of Vadas and Curran (2007).
We compareagreement with their annotations in the next sec-tion.To handle cases such as in 4.2(3), where the co-ordination is between modifiers of a head which isannotated in the PTB on the same level of the con-juncts, we first identify potential candidate phrasesof this type by looking for coordination phraseswhere the last element was not tagged by the an-notator as a conjunct.
Out of this set, we re-move cases where we can reliably identify thenon-conjunct element as a marker.
For the restof the cases, we distinguish between NP phrasesand non-NP phrases.
For NP phrases, we auto-matically add extra brackets to delimit the coor-dination phrase span so that it includes only thecoordinated modifiers.
For the rest of the phraseswe found that an such automatic procedure wasnot feasible (consider the ADVP phrases: (ADVP(RBR farther) (CC and) (RBR farther) (RB apart)); (ADVP (RB up) (CC and) (RB down) (NP (NNPFlorida))).
The first phrase head is apart whilein the second phrase, Florida is a complement).We manually annotated the coordination phraseboundary in these cases.When adding an extra tree level in this cases, weset its syntactic label to UCP when the conjunctsare from different types and same as the conjunctslabel when the conjuncts are from the same type.65.3 Annotating roles within coordinationphrasesCases where there are only a coordinator and twosiblings in the coordinated phrase are trivial toautomatically annotate, marking both siblings asconjuncts:6When the conjuncts are in POS level, a correspondingsyntactic label is set.
For example: (NP-CCP (NN-COORDhead) (CC-CC and) (NNS-COORD shoulders))ADVP-CCPADVP-COORDlater this weekCCorADVP-COORDearly next weekTo categorize the phrase elements for the restof the coordination phrases, we first manuallymarked the conjuncts in the sentence (for flatstructures, the conjuncts were already annotatedin the internal structure annotation phase).
Theannotator was given a sentence where the coor-dinator and the coordination phrase boundariesare marked.
For example ?Coke has beenable to improve (bottlers?
efficiencyand production, {and} in some cases,marketing)?.
The annotation task was to markthe conjuncts.7We automatically concluded thetypes of the other elements according to theirrelative position ?
elements before or after theconjuncts are categorized as markers/shared,while an element between conjuncts is a connec-tive or the coordinator itself.Mismatches with the PTB phrase bound-aries In 5% of the cases of coordination withinner structure, a conjunct span as it was an-notated by our annotator was not consistentwith the elements spans in the PTB.
For ex-ample, the annotator provided the followingannotation: ?
(The [economic loss], [jobslost], [anguish],[frustration] {and}[humiliation]) are beyond measure?, treat-ing the determiner ?The?
as a shared modifier.
Incontrast, the PTB analysis considers ?The?
as partof the first conjunct (?
[The economic loss]?
).The vast majority of the mismatches were onthe point of a specific word such as the (as demon-strated in the above example), to, a and punctu-ation symbols.
In a small number of cases themismatch was because of an ambiguity.
For exam-ple, in ?The declaration immediately madethe counties eligible for (temporaryhousing, grants {and} low-cost loans tocover uninsured property losses)?
the an-notator marked ?temporary housing?, ?grants?,and ?low-cost loans?
as conjuncts (leaving?to cover uninsured property loss?
as a shared7The coordination phrase boundaries were taken from thePTB annotations and were used to focus the annotators at-tention, rather than to restrict the annotation.
The annotatorswere allowed to override them if they thought they were er-ronous.
We did not encounter such cases.839modifier, while the PTB annotation considers ?tocover.
.
.
?
as part of the last conjunct.
Followingour desiderata of minimizing changes to existingtree structures, in a case of a mismatch we extendthe conjunct spans to be consistent with the PTBphrasing (each such case was manually verified).5.4 Handling inconsistencies and errorsWe automatically recognize ADVPs that appearright before a VP coordination phrase and mark-ers that are adjunct to a coordination phrase.
Wechange the structure such that such ADVPs andmarkers appear inside the coordination phrase.Quantity phrases that includes two conjunctswith a second conjunct of more, less, so, two andup are automatically recognized and consolidatedby adding an extra level.Errors in conjuncts span are found during themanual annotation that is done for the categoriza-tion.
When the manual annotation includes a con-junct that is originally a combination of two sib-lings phrases, we add extra brackets and name thenew level according to the syntactic structure.6 Annotator AgreementWe evaluate the resulting corpus with inter-annotators agreement for coordination phraseswith inner structure as well as agreement withthe flat conjuncts that were annotated in the NPbracketing annotation effort of Vadas and Curran(2007).6.1 Inter-annotator agreementTo test the inter-annotator agreement, we were as-sisted with an additional linguist who annotated1000 out of 7823 coordination phrases with innerstructure.
We measured the number of coordina-tion phrases where the spans are inconsistent atleast in one conjunct.
The annotators originallyagreed in 92.8% of the sentences.
After revision,the agreement increased to 98.1%.
The disagree-ments occurred in semantically ambiguous cases.For instance, ?potato salad, baked beans and pud-ding, plus coffee or iced tea?
was tagged differ-ently by the 2 annotators.
One considered ?pud-ding?
as the last conjunct and the other marked?pudding, plus coffee or iced tea?.6.2 Agreement with NP Bracketing for flatcoordinationsThe NP Bracketing extension of Vadas and Curran(2007) includes inner structures for flat NP phrasesR P F1PTB + NPB 90.41 86.12 88.21PTB + NPB + CCP 90.83 91.18 91.01Table 3: The parser results on section 22.in the PTB, that are given an internal structure us-ing the NML tag.
For instance, in (NP (NNP Air)(NNP Force) (NN contract)), ?Air Force?
is con-sidered as an independent entity and thus is de-limited with the NML tag: (NP (NML (NNP Air)(NNP Force)) (NN contract)).As mentioned, 48% (1655 sentences) of theNP flat coordination were disambiguated in thiseffort.8For these, the agreement on the con-juncts spans with the way they were marked byour annotators is 88%.
The disagreements were incases where a modifier is ambiguous.
For exam-ples consider ?luxury?
in ?The luxury airline andcasino company?, ?scientific?
in ?scientific insti-tutions or researchers?
and ?Japanese?
in ?someJapanese government officials and businessmen?.In cases of disagreement we followed our annota-tors decisions.97 ExperimentsWe evaluate the impact of the new annotationon the PTB parsing accuracy.
We use the state-of-the-art Berkeley parser (Petrov et al, 2006),and compare the original PTB annotations (in-cluding Vadas and Curran?s base-NP bracketing?
PTB+NPB) to the coordination annotations inthis work (PTB+NPB+CCP).
We use sections 2-21 for training, and report accuracies on the tra-ditional dev set (section 22).
The parse trees arescored using EVALB (Sekine and Collins, 1997).Structural Changes We start by consideringhow the changes in tree structures affect the parserperformance.
We compared the parsing perfor-mance when trained and tested on PTB+NPB, tothe parsing performance when trained and testedon PTB+NPB+CCP.
The new function labels wereignored in both training and testing.
The results8We consider a flat NP coordination as disambiguated ifit includes a coordinator and two other elements, i.e.
: (NML(NML (NN eye) (NN care)) (CC and) (NML (NN skin) (NNcare))) ; (NML (NN buy) (CC or) (NN sell)).9A by-product of this process is a list of ambiguous mod-ifier attachment cases, which can be used for future researchon coordination disambiguation, for example in designing er-ror metrics that take such annotator disagreements into ac-count.840GoldPredCC CCP COORD MARK SHARED CONN None ErrCC 849 1 5CCP 552 1 91 205COORD 3 1405 2 184 200MARK 9 2 1SHARED 1 29 85 3CONN 1 4 2None 4 124 113 4 26 14Table 4: Confusion-matrix over the predicted function labels.
None indicate no function label (a con-stituent which is not directly inside a CCP phrase).
Err indicate cases in which the gold span was notpredicted by the parser.are presented in Table 3.
Parsing accuracy onthe coordination-enhanced corpus is higher thanon the original trees.
However, the numbers arenot strictly comparable, as the test sets containtrees with somewhat different number of con-stituents.
To get a fairer comparison, we also eval-uate the parsers on the subset of trees in section 22whose structures did not change.
We check twoconditions: trees that include coordination, andtrees that do not include coordination.
Here, wesee a small drop in parsing accuracy when usingthe new annotation.
When trained and tested onPTB+NPB+CCP, the parser results are slightly de-creased compared to PTB+NPB ?
from 89.89% F1to 89.4% F1 for trees with coordination and from91.78% F1 to 91.75% F1 for trees without coordi-nation.
However, the drop is small and it is clearthat the changes did not make the corpus substan-tially harder to parse.
We also note that the pars-ing results for trees including coordinations arelower than those for trees without coordination,highlighting the challenge in parsing coordinationstructures.Function Labels How good is the parser in pre-dicting the function labels, distinguishing betweenconjuncts, markers, connectives and shared modi-fiers?
When we train and test the parser on treesthat include the function labels, we see a ratherlarge drop in accuracy: from 89.89% F1 (for treesthat include a coordination) to 85.27% F1.
Acloser look reveals that a large part of this dropis superficial: taking function labels into accountcause errors in coordination scope to be punishedmultiple times.10When we train the parser with10Consider the gold structure (NP (NP-CCP (DT-MARKa) (NP-COORD b) (CC and) (NP-COORD c) (PP-SHAREDd))) and the incorrect prediction (NP (DT a) (NP-CCP (NP-function labels but ignore them at evaluation time,the results climb back up to 87.45% F1.
Fur-thermore, looking at coordination phrases whosestructure was perfectly predicted (65.09% of thecases), the parser assigned the correct function la-bel for all the coordination parts in 98.91% of thecases.
The combined results suggest that while theparser is reasonably effective at assigning the cor-rect function labels, there is still work to be doneon this form of disambiguation.The availability of function labels annotation al-lows us to take a finer-grained look at the parsingbehavior on coordination.
Table 4 lists the parserassigned labels against the gold labels.
Commoncases of error are (1) conjuncts identification ?where 200 out of 1794 gold conjuncts were as-signed an incorrect span and 113 non-conjunctspans were predicted as participating as conjunctsin a coordination phrase; and (2) Shared elementsidentification, where 74.57% of the gold shared el-ements were analyzed as either out of the coor-dination phrase or as part of the last coordinates.These numbers suggest possible areas of future re-search with respect to coordination disambigua-tion which are likely to provide high gains.8 ConclusionsCoordination is a frequent and important syntacticphenomena, that pose a great challenge to auto-matic syntactic annotation.
Unfortunately, the cur-rent state of coordination annotation in the PTB islacking.
We present a version of the PTB with im-proved annotation for coordination structure.
TheCOORD b) (CC and) (NP-COORD c)) (PP d)).
When takingonly the syntactic labels into account there is only the mistakeof the coordination span.
When taking the coordination rolesinto account, there are two additional mistakes ?
the missinglabels for a and d.841new annotation adds structure to the previously flatNPs, unifies inconsistencies, fix errors, and marksthe role of different participants in the coordina-tion structure with respect to the coordination.
Wemake our annotation available to the NLP commu-nity.
This resource is a necessary first step towardsbetter disambiguation of coordination structures insyntactic parsers.AcknowledgmentsThis work was supported by The Allen Insti-tute for Artificial Intelligence as well as the Ger-man Research Foundation via the German-IsraeliProject Cooperation (DIP, grant DA 1600/1-1).ReferencesAnn Bies, Mark Ferguson, Karen Katz, Robert Mac-Intyre, Victoria Tredinnick, Grace Kim, Mary AnnMarcinkiewicz, and Britta Schasberger.
1995.Bracketing guidelines for treebank ii style penn tree-bank project.
University of Pennsylvania, 97:100.David Dowty.
1988.
Type raising, functional com-position, and non-constituent conjunction.
In Cat-egorial grammars and natural language structures,pages 153?197.
Springer.Kazuo Hara, Masashi Shimbo, Hideharu Okuma, andYuji Matsumoto.
2009.
Coordinate structure analy-sis with global structural constraints and alignment-based local features.
In Proceedings of the JointConference of the 47th Annual Meeting of the ACLand the 4th International Joint Conference on Natu-ral Language Processing of the AFNLP: Volume 2-Volume 2, pages 967?975.
Association for Compu-tational Linguistics.Deirdre Hogan.
2007.
Coordinate noun phrase disam-biguation in a generative parsing model.
Associa-tion for Computational Linguistics.Rodney Huddleston, Geoffrey K Pullum, et al 2002.The cambridge grammar of english.
Language.Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, pages1273?1362.J-D Kim, Tomoko Ohta, Yuka Tateisi, and Junichi Tsu-jii.
2003.
Genia corpusa semantically annotatedcorpus for bio-textmining.
Bioinformatics, 19(suppl1):i180?i182.Wolfgang Maier, Erhard Hinrichs, Sandra K?ubler, andJulia Krivanek.
2012.
Annotating coordination inthe penn treebank.
In Proceedings of the Sixth Lin-guistic Annotation Workshop, pages 166?174.
Asso-ciation for Computational Linguistics.Mitchell P Marcus, Mary Ann Marcinkiewicz, andBeatrice Santorini.
1993.
Building a large anno-tated corpus of english: The penn treebank.
Compu-tational linguistics, 19(2):313?330.Slav Petrov, Leon Barrett, Romain Thibaux, and DanKlein.
2006.
Learning accurate, compact, andinterpretable tree annotation.
In Proceedings ofthe 21st International Conference on ComputationalLinguistics and the 44th annual meeting of the Asso-ciation for Computational Linguistics, pages 433?440.
Association for Computational Linguistics.Satoshi Sekine and Michael Collins.
1997.
Evalbbracket scoring program.
URL http://nlp.
cs.
nyu.edu/evalb/EVALB.
tgz.Masashi Shimbo and Kazuo Hara.
2007.
A discrim-inative learning model for coordinate conjunctions.In EMNLP-CoNLL, pages 610?619.David Vadas and James Curran.
2007.
Adding nounphrase structure to the penn treebank.
In AN-NUAL MEETING-ASSOCIATION FOR COMPU-TATIONAL LINGUISTICS, volume 45, page 240.842
