DISCOURSE: CODES AND CLUES IN CONTEXTSJane J. RobinsonArtificial Intelligence CenterSRI International, Menlo Park,  CaliforniaSome of the meaning of a discourse is encoded in itslinguistic forms.
Thls is the truth-conditional meaningof the propositions those forms express and entail.
Someof the meaning is suggested (or 'implicated', as Gricewould say) by the fact that the encooer expresses justthose propositions in just those linguistic forms in justthe given contexts \ [2\] .
The first klnd of meaning isusually labeled 'semantics'; it is decoded.
The secondIs usually labeled 'pragmatlcs'; it is inferred fromclues provided by code and context.
Both kinds ofmeaning are related to syntax in ways that we are comingto understand better as work continues in analyzinglanguage and constructing processing models forcommunlcatlon.
We are also coming to a betterunderstanding of the relationship between the perceptualand conceptual structures that organize human experienceand make it encodabla in words.
(Cf.
\[I\], \[4\].
)I see thls progress in understanding not as the resultof a revolution in the paradigm of computationallinguistics in which one approach to natural languageprocess ing  i s  abandoned fo r  another ,  but  ra ther  as anexpans ion o f  our ideas o f  what both language andcomputers can do.
We have been able to  incorporate  whatwe learned earlier in the game in a broader approach tomore significant tasks.Certalnly within the last twenty years ,  the disciplineof computational linguistics has expanded its view of itsobject of concern.
Twenty years ago, that vlew wasfocussed on a central aspect of language, language ascode \ [3\] .
The paradigmatic task of our dlsclpllne thenwas to transform a message encoded in one language intothe same message encoded In another, using dictionariesand syntactic rules.
(Originally, the task was not totranslate but to transform the input as an ald to humantranslators.
)Colncldentally, those were the days of batchprocessing and the typical inputs were scientific texts- -  written monologues that existed as completed, staticdiscourses before processlnK began.
Then cameinteractive processing, brlnglng with  It the opportunityfor what is now called 'dialogue' between user andmachine.
At the same time, and perhaps not whollycolnoldentally, another aspect of language became salientfor computational linguistics -- the aspect of languageas behavior, with two or more people using the code toengage in purposeful ~ communication.
The inputs nowinclude discourse in which the amount of code to beinterpreted continues to grow as participants in dialogueinteract, and their interactions become part of thecontexts for on-golng, dynamic interpretation.The paradigmatic task now Is to simulate in non-t r iv ia l  ways the procedures by which people reachconclusions about what is in each other's minds.Performing this task still requires processing languageas code, but it also requires analyzing the code in acontext, to identify clues to the pragmatic meaning ofits use.
One way of representing thls enlarged task toconceive of it as requiring three concentric klnds ofknowledge:a intrallngulatlc knowledge, or knowledge of thecode?
interllngulstlc knowledge, or knowledge ofl i ngu is t i c  behav ior?
extrnllngulstlc knowledge, or knowledge of theperceptual and conceptual structures thatlanguage users have, the things they attend toand the goals they pursueThe papers we will hear today range over techniquesfor identifylr~, representing and applying the variouskinds of knowledge for the processing of discourse.McKeown exploits intrallngulstic knowledge forextralingulstic purposes.
When the goal of a request fornew information is not uniquely identlfiabte, sheproposes to use syntactic transformations of the code ofthe request to clarify its ambiguities and ensure thatits goal is subsequently understood.
Shanon is alsoconcerned with appropriateness of answers, and reports aninvestigation of the extralinguistic conceptualstructuring of space that affects the pragmatic rulespeople follow in furnishing appropriate information inresponse to questions about where things are.Sidner identifies various kinds of intrallnguisticclues a discourse provides that indicate what entitiesoccupy the focus of attention of discourse paticlpants asdiscourse proceeds, and the use of focusing (anextrallngulstlc prc~ess) tq control the inferences madein identifying the referents of pronominal anaphora.Levin and Hutchlnson analyze the clues in reports ofspatial reasoning that lead to identification of thepoint of vlew of the speaker towards the entities talkeOabout.
Llke Sldner, they use syntactic clues and tlkeShanon, they seek to identify the conceptual structuresthat underlie behavior.Code and behavior interact with intentions in waysthat are still mysterious but clearly important.
Thelast two papers stress the fact that using language isintentional behavior and that understanding the purposesa discourse serves is a necessary part of understandingthe discourse itself.
Mann claims that dialogues arecomprehensible only because participants provide clues toeach other that make available knowledge of the goalsbeing pursued.
Alien and Perrault note that intentionpervades all three layers of discourse, pointing outthat, in order to be successful, a speaker must intendthat the hearer recognize his intentions and infer hisgoals, but that these intentions are not signaled in anysimple way in the code.In all of these papers, language is viewed asproviding both codes for and clues to meaning, so thatwhen it is used in discourse, Its forms can be decodedand their import can be grasped.
As language users, weknow that we can know, to a surprising extent, whatsomeone else means for us to know.
~e also sometimesknow that we don't know what someone else means rot us toknow.
As computational linguists, we are ~rying tofigure out precisely how we know such things.REFERENCE3\[I\] Chafe, W.L.
1977.
Creativity in Verbalizationand Its Implications for the Nature of Stored Knowledge.In: Freedle, R.O.
(ed)., <<Discourse Production alldComprehension>, Voi.
I, pp.
41-55.
Ablex: Nor,wood, NewJe r say.\[2\] Grlce, P.H.
1975.
Logic and Conversation.
In:Davldson, D. and Har~n, G.
(eds.
), <<The Logic ofGr-mmAr>.
Dlcker~on: Enclno, California\[3\] Halitday, M.A.K.
1977.
Languor as Code andLanguage as Rahavlour.
In: Lamb, S. and Makkai, A.(eds.
), <?Semlotlcs of Culture and Lan~p~age>.\[~\] Mlller, G.A.
and Johnson-Lalrd, P.N.
1976.<<Lang1~e and Perception>.
Harvard University Press:Cambridge, Massachusetts65
