KNOI~LEDGE ORGANIZATION AND APPLICATION: BRIEF COMIIENTS ON PAPERS IN THE SESSIONAravind K. JoshiDepartment of Computer and Information ScienceThe Moore SchoolUniversity of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA 191O4Comments:My brief comments on the papers in this session are basedon the abstracts available to me and not on the completepapers.
Hence, i t  is quite possible that some of thecomments may turn out to be inappropriate or else theyhave already been taken care of in the ful l  texts.
In acouple of cases~ I had the benefit of reading someearl ier longer related reports, which were very helpful.All the papers (except by Sangster) deal with eitherknowledge representation, particular types of knowledgeto be represented, or how certain types of knowledge areto be used.Brackman describes a lat t ice- l ike  structured inheritancenetwork (KLONE) as a language for expl ic i t  representationof natural language conceptual information.
Multipledescriptions can be represented.
How does the fac i l i tydi f fer  from a similar one in KRL?
Belief representationsappear to be only implicit.
Quantification is handledthrough a set of "structural descriptions."
I t  is notclear how negation is handled.
The main application isfor the command and control of advanced graphicsmanioulators through natural language.
Is there animplicit  claim here that the KLONE representations aresuitable for both natural language concepts as well asfor those in the visual domain?Sowa also presents a network l ike representation (con-ceptual graphs).
I t  is a representation that isapparently based on some ideas of Hintikka on incompletebut extensible models called surface models.
Sowa alsouses some ideas of graph grammars.
I t  is not clear howmultiple descriptions and beliefs can be represented inthis framework.
Perhaps the detailed paper wil l  c lar i fysome of these issues.
This paper does not describe anyapplication.Sangster's paper is not concerned, directly with knowledgerepresentation.
I t  is concerned with complete andpartial matching procedures, especially for determiningwhether a particular instance satisfies the cr i ter ia  formembership in a particular class.
Matching procedures,especially partial matching procedures, are highly rele-vant to the use of any knowledge representation.
Partialmatching procedures have received considerable attentionin the rule-based systems.
This does not appear to bethe case for other representations.Moore and Mann do not deal with knowledge representationper se, but rather with the generation of natural lang-uage texts from a given knowledge representation.
Theyare more concerned with the problem of generating a text(which includes questions of ordering among sentences,their scopes, etc.)
which satisfies a goal held by thesystem, describing a (cognitive) state of the reader.The need for resorting to multi-sentence structuresarises from the fact that for achieving a desired stateof the reader, a single sentence may not be adequate.~cDonald's work on generation appears to be relevant, buti t  is not mentioned by the authors.Burnstein is primarily concerned with knowledge about(physical) objects and its role in the comprehensionprocess.
The interest here is the need for a particulartype of knowledge rather than the representation schemei tse l f ,  which he takes to be that of Schank.
Knowledgeabout objects, their normal uses, and the kinds ofactions they are normally involved in is necessary forinterjretat ion of sentences dealing with objects.
Insentence (1) John opened the bottle and poured the wine,Burnstein's analysis indicates that the inference is dri-ven largely by our knowledge about open bottles.
In thisinstance, this need not be the case.
We have the samesituation in John took the bottle out of the refrioeratorand poured the--w-Tne.
The inference here is dependent onknowing something about wine bottles and their normaluses; knowledge of the fact that the bottle was open isnot necessary.Given the normal reading of (1), ( l ' )  John opened thebottle and ~ured the wine out of i t  wi l l  be judged asre~u'n-~an--t~-, be-Te't'~o'n'~f--redundant material in ( l ' )  gives(1).
Deletion of redundant and recoverable material is adevice that language xploits.
The recoverability here,however, is dependent on the knowledge about the objectsand their normal uses.lf a non-normal reading of (1) isintended (e.g., the wine bein 0 poured into the bottle)then ( l")  John opened the bottle and poured the wine intoi t  is not fe l t  redundant.
This suggests that a predictionthat a normal reading is intended can be made (not, ofcourse, with complete certainty) by recognizing that weare dealing with reduced forms.
(Of course, context canalways override such a prediction.
)Some further questions are: Knowledge about objects isessential for comprehension.
The paper does not discuss,however, how this knowledge and its particular represen-tation helps in controlling the inferences in a uniformmanner.
Is there any relationship of this work to thecommon sense algorithms of Rieger?Lebowitz is also concerned with a particular type ofknowledge rather than a representation scheme.
Knowledgeabout the reader's purpose is essential for comprehension.The role played by the "interest" of the reader is alsoexplored.
The application is for the comprehension ofnewspaper stories.
There is considerable work beyond theindicated references in the analysis of goal-directeddiscoursep but this has not been mentioned~Finally, there are other issues which are important forknowledge representation but which have been either le f tout or only peripherally mentioned by some of the authors.Some of these are as follows.
(i) A representation has to be adequate to support thedesired inference.
But this is not enough.
I t  is alsoimportant o know how inferences are made (e.g., withwhat ease or d i f f i cu l ty ) .
The interaction of the natureof a representation and the structure of the sentence ordiscourse wil l  make certain inferences go through moreeasily than others.
( i i )  Knowledge has to be updated.
Again the nature ofthe representation would make certain kinds of updates ormodifications easy and others d i f f i cu l t .
( i i i )  The previous issue also has a bearing on therelationship between knowledge representation and know-ledge acquisition.
At some level, these two aspectshave to be viewed together.31
