Plans, Inference, and Indirect Speech Acts IJames F. AllenComputer Science DepartmentUniversity of RochesterRochester, NY Iq627C.
Raymond PerraultComputer Science DepartmentUniversity of TorontoToronto, Canada MSS IA7IntroductionOne of the central concerns of a theory ofpra~at ics  is to explain what actions language usersperform by making ut terances .
This concern i s  a lsore levant  to  the des igners  o f  conversat iona l  languageunders tand ing  systems, espec ia l ly  those intended tocooperate  w i th  a user in the execut ion  o f  some task(e .g .
,  the Computer Consu l tant  task  d iscussed in Walker\[1978\]).All actions have effects on the world, and may havepreconditions which must obtain for them to besuccessfully executed.
For actions whose executioncauses the generation of linguistic utterances (ors~eeqh acts), the preconditions may include thespeaker/wrlter holding certain beliefs about the world,and hav ing certain intentions as to how it should change(\[Austin, 1962\], \[Searle, 1969\]).In Cohen \[1978\]  and Cohen and Perrault \ [1979\]  i t  issuggested that speech acts a?
be defined in the contextof a plannln~ s~stam (e.g., STRIPS of Fikes and Nllsson\[1971\]) i.e., as a class of parameterlzed procedurescalled operators, whose execution can modify the world.Each operator is labelled with formulas stating itspreconditions and effects.The major problem of a theory of speech acts isrelating the form of utterances to the acts which areperformed by uttering them.
Several syntactic devicescan be used to indicate the speech act being performed:the most obvious are explicit performative verbs, mood,and in tonat ion .
But no combinat ion o f  these prov ides  aclear, single-valued function from form to illocutionaryforce.
For example, (1.a)-(1.e) and even (1.f) can berequests to pass the salt.1.a) I want you to pass the sa l t .1.b) Do you have the  sa l t?1.c) Is  the sa l t  near you?1.d) I want the sa l t .1.e) Can you pass the sa l t?1 .
f )  John asked me to ask you to  pass the sa l t .Furthermore, all these utterances can also be intendedliterally in some contexts.
For example, a parentleav ing  a ch i ld  at the t ra in  s ta t ion  may ask "Do youknow when the t ra in  leaves?"
expect ing  a yes /no answeras a conf i rmat ion .?
This research was supported in part by the NationalResearch Counci l  o f  Canada under Operat ing Grant A9285.ee Unless otherwise i nd icated ,  we take "speech act" tobe synon~nnous with "illocutionary act.
"The object of this paper is to discuss, at anintuitive level, an extension to the work in Cohen\[1978\] to account for indirect speech acts.
Because ofspace constraints, we will need to depend explicitly onthe intuitive meanings of various terms such as p lan ,ac t ion ,  be l ieve ,  and goa l .
Those in teres ted  in a morer igorous  presentat ion  should see \ [A l len ,  1979\] or\[Perrault and Allen, forthcoming\].
The solutionproposed here is based on the following slmple andindependently motivated hypotheses:(2.a) Language users are ra t iona l  agents and thusspeech acts  are purposefu l .
In par t i cu la r ,  theyare a means by which one agent can a l te r  thebe l ie fs  and goals  o f  another .
(2 .b )  Rat iona l  agents are f requent ly  capable o fident i fy ing  act ions  being performed by o thersand goals  being sought .
An essent ia l  par t  o fhe lp fu l  behav ior  is  the adopt ion  by one agent o fa goal  o f  another ,  fo l lowed by an at tempt  toach ieve i t .
For example, fo r  a s tore  c le rk  torep ly  "How many do you want?"
to  a customer whohas asked "Where are the steaks?
e, the c le rkmust have in fer red  that  the customer wantss teaks ,  and then he must have decided to  getthem himself.
This might have occurred even ifthe clerk knew that the custamer had intended toget the steaks himself.
Cooperative behaviormust be accounted for independently of speechacts, for it often occurs without the use oflanguage.
(2.c) In order for a speaker to successfully perform aspeech act, he must i n tend  that the hearerrecogn ize  h i s  in tent ion  to  ach ieve cer ta in(per locut ionary)  e f fec ts ,  and must be l ieve  i t  i sl i ke ly  that  the hearer  w i l l  be able to  do so.This i s  the foundat ion  the account o fi l l oout ionary  acts proposed by Strawson \ [196q\ ]and Sear le  \ [1969\ ] ,  based on Gr ice \ [1957\ ] .
(2 .d )  Language users know that  o thers  are capable o fach iev ing  goa ls ,  o f  recogn iz ing  act ions ,  and o fcooperat ive  behav ior .
Fur thermore ,  they  knowthat others know they know, etc.
Thus, aspeaker may in tend  not  on ly  that  h i s  ac t ions  berecognized but a lso that  h i s  goa ls  be in /e r red ,and that  the hearer  be cooperat ive .
(2.e) Thus a speaker can perform one speech act  A byper forming  another  speech act  B i f  he in tendsthat  the hearer  recogn ize  not  on ly  that  B wasperformed but  a l so  that  through cooperat ivebehav ior  by the hearer ,  in tended by the speaker ,the e f fec ts  o f  A should be ach ieved.85Th__~e Speech Act ModelIn the sp i r i t  of  Sear le \ [1975\] ;  Gordon and Lakof f\ [1975\] ,  and Horgan \[1978\] .
we propose an account o fspeech acts wi th  the fo l low ing  const i tuents :( \ ] .a )  For each language user S. a model o f  the be l ie fsand plans of  other  language users A with whichs/he is  coenun icat ing .
Inc lud ing  a model o f  A 'smodel o f  S's be l ie fs  and p lans,  e tc ,(3 .b)  Two sets o f  operators  fo r  speech acts :  a set  o fsur face leve l  operators  which are rea l i zed  byutterances having specific syntactic andsemantic features (e.g.. mood), and a set ofl l l ocut ionary  leve l  operators  whlch areperformed by per foming  sur face leve l  ones.
Thet l l ocut ionary  acts model the in tent  o f  thespeaker Independent of  the form of  theu t terance .
(3 .c)  A set  o f  p laus ib le  In ference ru les  wi th  whichlanguage users construct and reco~nlze plans.It Is convenient to view the  rules as eithersimple or augmented: A couple of examples ofsimple plan recognition rules are:fAction-Effect Znference\]"If agent S believes that agent A wants todo act ion  ACT then it is p laus ib le  that  3be l ieves  that  A wants to  achieve theeffects of  ACT.
"\[Know-Positive Znferenoe\]"Zf S believes A wants to know whether aproposition P is true.
then it is plausiblethat S believes that A wants to achieve P."Of course, given the conditions in the secondinference above.
S might also infer that A ham agoal of achieving not P. This is anotherpossible inference.
Which applies in a givensetting is detemlned by the rating heuristics(see 3.d below).Simple ru les  can be augmented by adding thecond i t ion  that  the recogn izer  be l ieves  that  theo ther  agent intended him to  per fom thein fe rence .
An example of  an augmentedrecogn i t ion  ru le  i s :" I f  S be l ieves  that  A wants S to  re.=ognizeA's  in tent ion  to do ACT.
then i t  i splausible that  S believes that  A wants S torecognize A 's  in tent ion  to  achieve thee f fec ts  of  ACT.
"Not ice that the augmented rule is obta inedby intrc~uclng "S believes A wants" In theantecedent and consequent of  the s imple ru le .and by in terpret ing  "S recognizes A's  in tent ion"as "S comes to  be l ieve  that  A wants."
Themerules can be constructed from the simple ones byassuming that language users share a model ofthe const ruct ion  and recogn i t ion  processes.
(3.d)  A set  o f  heur i s t i cs  to  guide plan recogn i t ion  byra t ing  the p laus ib i l i ty  o f  the outcomes.
One o fthe heuristics iS: "Decrease the plausibilityof  an outcome in which an agent Is be l ieved tobe execut ing an act ion  whose e f fec ts  he a l readybe l ieves  to  be t rue . "
Sor ip l~-der ivedexpectat ions  a lso prov ide  s~e o f  the cont ro l  o fthe recogn i t ion  process.
(3.e)  A set of  heuristics to  identify the obstacles inthe recognized plan.
These are the goals thatthe speaker cannot eas i ly  achieve w i thoutass is tance .
I f  we assume that  the hearer  i scooperat ing with the speaker,  the  hearer  w i l lusua l ly  attempt to help achieve these goals  inhis response.With these const i tuents ,  we have a model o f  he lp fu lbehav ior :  an agent S hears an ut terance  from some otheragent A. and then Ident i f ies  the sur face speech act .From th is .
S app l ies  the in fe rence  ru les  to  reconst ructA's plan that  produced the u t terance .
S can thenexamine th i s  plan fo r  obstan les  and g ive  s he lp fu lresponse based on them.
However, some o f  the in fe renceru les  may have been augmented by the recogn i t ion  o fin tent ion  cond i t ion .
Thus.
some obstac les  may have beenintended to  be communicated by the speaker.
Thesespec i fy  whet t l l oout ionary  act  the speaker performed.an ExampleThis may become c learer  i f  we cons ider  an example.Consider the plan that  must be  deduced In o rder  toanswer (4 .e )  with ( .
.b ) :(~.a)  A: Do you know when the Windsor t ra in  leaves?
(4.b)  S: Yes, a t  3 :15.The seal  deduced from the l i te ra l  In terpretat ion  i s  that(4 .o )  A wants to  know whether S knows the depar turetime.From th is  goa l .
3 may in fer  that  A in  fac t  wants (4 .d)by the Know-Posi t ive Znference:( .
.d )  A wants S to  know the depar ture  t imefrom which S may in fer  that(q .e)  A wants $ to  inform Aot  the depar ture  t imeby the precond i t ion -act ion  In ference  (not  shown).
S canthen in fer ,  using the ac t ion -e f fec t  in fe rence ,  that(4 .
f )  A wants to  know the depar ture  t ime.S'S response  (~.b)  ind icates  that  ha be l ieved  that  both(~.c)  and (4 .
f )  were obstac les  that  S could overcome Inth i s  response.However.
a sentence such as (4 .a )  could o f ten  beut tered  in a context  where the l i te ra l  goal  i s  not anobstacle.
For instance.
A might already know that $knows the departure time.
Met still utter (4.a).
Xnsuch cases.
A's goals are the same as If ha had utteredthe request(4.g) When does the Windsor train leave?Hence (~.a) is often referred to as an indirect request.Thus we have descr ibed two d i f fe rentin terpretat ions  o f  (q .a ) :a) A said (q .a )  merely  expect ing a yes/no answer,but  $ answered wlth the ext ra  in fo rmat ion  inorder  to  be he lp fu l ;b) A said (4 .a )  Intending that  S deduce h is  planand rea l i ze  that  A rea l ly  wants to ~now thedepar ture  t ime.86Theoretically, these are very different: (a) describesa yes/no question, while (b) describes an (indirect)request for the departure time.
But the distinction isalso IMportant for practical reasons.
For instance,assume S is not able to tell A the departure time forsome reason.
With interpretation (a), S can simplyanswer the question, whereas with interpretation (b), Sis obliged to glve a reason for not answering with thedeparture time.The distinction between these two cases is simplythat in the latter, S believes that A intended S to makethe inferences above and deduce the goal (q , f ) .
Thusthe in ferences appl ied above were ac tua l ly  augmentedin ferences  as described prev ious ly .
In the formerinterpretation, S does not be l ieve  A intended S to  makethe in ferences ,  but did anyway in order to be he lp fu l .Concludln~ RemarksThis speech act model was implemented as part of aprogram which plays the role of a clerk at a trainstation information booth \[Allen, 1979\].
The mainresults are the following:(5.a)(5.b)It accounts for a wide class of indirect formsof requests, assertions, and questions,including the examples in (I).
This includesidiomatic forms such as (1.a)  and non-idlomatlcones such as (1 .
f ) .
I t  does so using on ly  a fewindependently necessary mechanisms.It maintains a distinction between t l l ocut tonaryand per locut ionary  acts .
In par t i cu la r ,  i taccounts fo r  how a given response by onepar t i c ipant  B to an ut terance by A may be theresu l t  o f  d i f fe rent  chains o f  in ferences made byB: e i ther  B bel ieved the response given wasintended by A, or  8 bel ieved that  the responsewas he lp fu l  ( i .e .
,  non- intended) .
I t  a lso showssome ways in which the conversat iona l  contextcan favor  some in terpretat ions  over o thers .The main objective of our work is to simplify thesyntactic and semantic components as much as possible byrestricting their domain to literal meanings.
Thei nd i rec t  meanings are then handled at the plan leve l .There remain several  open problems In a theory o fspeech acts which we be l ieve  to be la rge ly  independento f  the issue o f  ind i rec t ion ,  notably  ident i fy ing  thefeatures of a text which determine literal t l l ocut lonaryforce, as well as constructing representations adequateto express the relation between several lllocutionaryforce ind icators  which may be present in one sentence(see \ [Lakof f ,  197q\] and \[Morgan, 1973\]).BibliographyAl len ,  J.F.
A Plan-Based Approach to  Speech Ac_ttRecognit ion.
Ph.D. thes i s ,  Computer ScienceDepartment, Un ivers i ty  o f  Toronto,  1979.Aust in,  J .L.
How To Do Thln~s With Words.
New York,Oxford University Press, 1962.Brown, G.P.
An Approach to Processing Task-OrientedDialogue, unpublished ms, MIT, 1978.Cohen, P.R.
On Znowin 6 What to Say: Plannin~ SpeechActs, TR 118, Computer Science Department,Un ivers i ty  o f  Toronto,  January 1978.Cohen, P.R.
and Per rau l t ,  C.N.
Elements o f  a PlanBased Theory of Speech Acts, forthcoming.Cole, P. and Morgan, J .L.
Syntax and Semantics, Vol 3:Speech Acts.
New York, Academic Press, 1975.F lkes,  R.E.
and Nl lsson,  N.J.
STRIPS: A New Approachto the App l i ca t ion  o f  Theorem Proving to ProblemSolv ing.
Ar t i f i c ia l  In te l l i~ence  2, 189-205, 1971.Gordon, D. and Lakof f ,  G. Conversat ional  Postu lates ,in Cole and Morgan (ads) ,  1975.Grice,  H.H.
Meaning.
Ph i l .
Rev.
66, 377-388, 1957.Lakof f ,  O. Syntact ic  Amalgams.
CL__SS 10, 321-3qU, 197q.Morgan, J .L.
Sentence F ra~ents  and the Notion'Sentence,' in B.B.
Kachru et  al.
(ads), Issuesin Lln~uistics.
Urbana, Un ivers i ty  of IllinoisPress, 1973.Morgan, J.L.
Towards a Rat ional  Model of DiscourseComprehension, in Proceedin~s __2nd Conf.Theoret i ca l  Issues in Natural  Language Procesain 6,Champaign-Urbana, 1978.Per rau l t ,  C.R.
and A l len ,  J.F.
A 'P lan-Based Analys iso f  Ind i rec t  Speech Acts, in p reparat ion .Sear le,  J.R.
Speech Acts.
New York, CambridgeUniversity Press, 1969.Searle,  J.R. Ind i rec t  Speech Acts, in Cole and Morgan(eda),  1975.Strawson, P.F.
Intention and Convention in Speech Acts.Phi l .
Rev.
73, q, q39-~60, 196~.Walker, D.E.
Understandin~ Spoken Language.
New York,North Hol land, 1978.87
