APPLICATIONSDAVID G, HAYSHeXagramTruth,  like beauty ,  i s  in the eye of the beho lder ,  Zo f fe r  a few remarks for  the use of those who seek apo in t  of view from which to see t ru th  in  the s ix  papersass igned  to th i s  sess ion .Linguistic computation is the fundamental and primitivebranch of the art of cumputatlon~ as I have remarked offand on.
The insight of yon Neumann~ that operations anddata can be represented in the same storage device, isthe linguistic insight that anything can have a name inany language.
(Whether anything can have a definitionis a different question.)
I recall surprising a coupleof colleagues with this r~ark  early in the 1960s, whenI had to point out the obvious fact that compillng andinterpreting are linguistic procedures and thereforethat only in rare instances does a computer spend moretime on mathematics than on linguistics.
By now we alltake the central position of our subject matter forgranted.
I express this overly familiar truth only forthe pragmatic reason that some familiar truths are morehelpful than others in preparing for a given discourse.Syntax needs semantic Justification, but semantics hasthe inherent Justification that knowledge is power.
Thesemantic Justification of syntax is easy: Who would tryto represent knowledge without a good gr~--,-r?
I havenot yet found a better illustration than the tlmstable~an example that I have used for some years now.
Withoutrules of arrangement and interpretation, the timetablecollapses into a llst of places, the digits 0,..9, a~da few speclal symbols.
Almost all of the information ina t imetab le  i s  conveyed by the syntax ,  and one suspectsthat  the same i s  t rue  of the languages  of b ra ins ,  minds,and computers.Syntax needs more than semantic Justification, and pra 8-m-tlcs is ready to serve.
Without pragmatic Justifica-tion, the difference between cognitive and syntacticstructures is ridiculous.
We may find more Justifierslater, but the rediscovery of pragmatlce is a boon tothose who grow tired of hearing language maligned, Itis easy to make fun of Engllsh , the language of Shakesspears, Bertrand Russell, and modern science.
But thehumor sometimes depends on the ignorance of the Joker.We find first semantic, then prasmatic, and perhapslater other kinds of Justification for the quirkiness ofEnglish and other languages, and the Jokes loss theirpoint.Form, not content, admits of calculation.
Since Ar i s to -t le  proceeded in accordance with this rule, I find itsurprising that John Locke omitted mention of the simpleideas in reflectlon.
(One may recall that Locke knew ofsimple ideas in perceptlon~-~ellow, warm# amoot~ndconsidered knowledge to derive from perception and re-flection.)
Listing the s id le  ideas in reflection selmlin fact to be a task for our century, anticipated inpart in the L9th century.
Predication, Ins~an~isClonpmembership, component, g, denoCation~ localization, morali-zation are some candidates that presently show strength.Content, not form, dlsamblguates, A more precise state-ment is that specific and not general knowledge fixesour interpretations of what we encounter, certainly inlanguage and probably also in other channels of peroep-tlon.
Thus the great body of knowledge of our culture Iof the individual mind, or of the ~asslve database makeslends an appearance of fixedness and stability to theworld that simpler minds, cultures, and co~uters  cannotget.
The general rules of syntax, semantics, and prag-matlcs define the thinkable, allowing ambiguity wheQsome specific issue comes up.
In a hash house or a con-versation, understanding and trust come with complete andexact information.Conversation is a social activity.
The thinking computer(Raphael's title) may be an artificial mind, but the con-versing computer (William D. Orr's cltle) is an artifi-cial person and must accept the obligations of socialconverse.
Those obligations are massive: "to do justiceand love mercy*', "to do unto others as you would havethem do unto you", to act only as ic would be well forall to act, to express fully and concisely what is rele-vant, "to tell the truth, the whole truth, and nothinghut the truth".Trust precedes learning.
Lest anyone suppose chat I havelisted the precepts of our greatest masters in a spiritof fun, I hasten to add this obvious truth from study ofour species.
Whether the sciences be called social, be-havioral, or human, they tell us that one accepts know-ledge for one's own store only from sources that can betrusted.
Nor could wisdom dictate the opposite, sinceinternalized knowledge is inaccessible to test and cor-rection.Is the computer worthy of trust?I have asked th i s  quest ion  of s tudents ,  g rad ing  the con-text  from s imple  a r i thmet ic  t rus t  ( they t rus t  the i r  poc-ket  ca lcu la tors  to g ive  accurate  sums and products )  cocomplex persona l  t rus t  ( they would not accept  the compu-te r  as a f r iend) .
We have, I ch ink,  no exper ience  wi thcomputers that are functionally worthy of crust in anybut simple matters.
We may be learning to make computersfollow the masters' precepts in conversation.
Whethertheir users will ever accept them for what they are worthis hard to predict.
If computers grow trustworthy andare assigned important tasks, then when crisis occurs theissue of trust may determine such outcomes as war orpeace.
Thus the issue is not frivolous.Trust arises from knowledge of origin as well as fromknowledge of functional capacity.
Genetic and culturalhistory provide enormous confirmation that a neighborcan be trusted, beyond even broad experience.
We cangain only a little knowledge about a friend in the courseof a friendship, but we can bring to bear all of our owninherent mechanisms of trust for those that look andsmell llke us when crisis occurs.The s ix  papers  in  th i s  sess ion ,  wr i t ten  by human be ingsand se lec ted  by persons  of author i ty~ deserve  su f f i c ientt rue~ that  the reader  may learn  from them.
The systemsthat  they descr ibe  may grow in to  knowledgeable,  semant i -ca l l y  and pragmatically effective, syntactically well-formed conversents.
Their contributions are to that end,and have the advantage that, by seeking to apply know-ledge they can detect its limits.Science needs application, since contact with reallt 7tends to realnd us scientists that there are more thingsout there than are dreamed of in our theories.89
