WHERE qUESTIONSBenny ShanonThe Hebrew University of JerusalemConsider question (i), and the answers to it, (2)-(h)~(i) Where is the Empire State Building?
(2) In New York.
(3) In the U.S.A.(h) On 3hth Street and 3rd Avenue.When (i) is posed in California (2) is the appropriateanswer to it.
This is the case even though (3) and (h)are also true characterizations of the location of theEmpire State Building.
The pattern of appropriatenessalters, however, when the locale where the questionpresented changes.
Thus, when (i) is asked in Israel,(3) is the appropriate answer, whereas when it is askedin Manhattan, (I~) is the answer that should be given.The foregoing observations, originally made by Rumelhart(197h) and by Norman (1973), suggest the following.First, it is not enough for answers to questions to be(semantically) true, they have to be (pragmatically)appropriate as well.
Second, appropriateness is notsolely determined by the content of the particular prop-ositions in question, but also by the identity of theparticipants in the particular conversational situationand their locale.
In other words, for a person--or fora machine, for that matter--to answer questions, it isnot enough to survey one's memory and retrieve inform-ation pertaining to the query posed, rather--a selec-tion algorithm has to be used so that an appropriateresponse would be given.
The specification of such aselection algorithm is the topic of the present invest-igation.The following discussion is based on what is known asthe Room Theory: the original, albeit preliminary,model proposed by Rumelhart(197~) in order to accountfor his insightful observations.
I try to examine thepsychological validity of this model, and to proposeamendments and extensions to it on the basis of empir-ical data.Theory.
'\[~le correspondence between the data and theTheory is on two counts.
First, there is the seeming-ly trivial observation that answers tO different ques-tions are given on diff,:rent levels.
Specifically,there is a correlation between the level of the objectwhich is queried and the room on which the respectiveanswer is given.
Second, and less trivial, is theobservation that answers vary not only with the ques-tions, but also with the spatial relationship whichholds between the object of the question and the parti-cipants in the conversation.
Several loci in the dataare indicative of this last pattern.
First none of theAmericans indicated that the Empire State Building was"in the U.S.", bu~ a third of the Israelis did so;further, some of the Americans, but none of the Israelis,indicated that the building was "in Manhattan".
Second,asked about New York City, almost all Israelis, but noneof the Americans, answered on the country level.
Fur-ther, the distribution of the answer patterns furnishedby the members of each group changed according to wheth-er the queried city was their own, or close/distantfrom it.
Finally, children's answers to questions aboutobjects also vary with how distant the object is.Above, however, I have qualified the correspondence bet-ween the data and the theory; this qualification shouldnow be clarified.
I don't think it is meaningful toJudge the validity of a model llke the Room Theory byexamining the percentage of cases in which its predic-tions hold.
Such a percentage may reflect the structureof the domain (questions) under investigation, and itneed not be indicative of the adequacy of the model assuch.
The term "by and large" is, however, of qualit-ative significance.
It indicates that unless otherfactors or reasons are operative, answers to where ques-tions do, indeed, follow the Room A/gorithm.
The detec-tion of these "other factors and reasons", their class-ification and the characterization of the answer typesthat correspond to them is the main theme of this dis-cussion.
Following, then, are the answer patterns whichdo not conform with the Room Theory.The Room Theory "posits the existence of a psychologic-al room relative to which distances are reckoned.
Theroom corresponds to the smallest geographical regionthat encompasses both the reference location of theconversants and the location of the places in question".When answering where-questions "the rule is to find thesmallest room which Just includes the reference locationand the answer location.
The appropriate answer is thenext smallest geographical unit which contains the loc-ation in question, but axcludes the reference location".
(Rumelhart, 1975).
The answers generated by this al-gorithm, note, constitute the placing of the item ques-tioned in a room which is larger than it; henceforthanswers of this type will be called vertical.In order to examine the Room Theory, questions regard-ing places in the world as well as objects in a (con-crete) room were presented to several subject popula-tions: college students in Israel and the U.S., Ameri-can children of three age groups, and aphasic patients.The present report concentrates on the adult data, andonly cursory remarks will be made on the answers furn-ished by the other populations.
First, I will discussanswers solicited by an open questionnaire, in whichsubjects were asked to give one answer to the questionsposel to them; later, answers solicited by closed ques-tionnaires will be discussed.First, it should be noted that by and large the answersgiven by subjects were the ones predicted by the RoomFirst, consider questions about landm-~ks in the townsin which the conversation took place.
Most of the ans-wers which involved vertical placement were given on thelevel of the town itself, i.e.
on a level which is high-er than the one predicted by the Room Theory.
The otheranswers were not vertical, but rather horizontal:theobject questioned was related to another object similarto it.
In other words, either the level specified bythe Room Theory was changed, or the type of answer (i.e.the generation algorithm itself) was altered.
Thesedeviant answers are viewed as two 81ternative solutionsto the problem of the floor effect.
Specifically, asone goes down the place hierarchy, the specification ofrooms between the target and the least common room iscumbersome; indeed, there might not be simple names bywhich reference to these rooms may be made.
Subjectssolve this problem either by staying on the level of theleast common room or by shifting to the horizontals t ra te~, .The same problem is noted with the ceilin~ effect, name-ly, with questions regarding objects which are very highon the place hierarchy: continents for adults, countriesfor children and aphasic patients.
The answers in thesecases were varied, a feature which attests the algOr--ithm/c difficulty associated with them.
Only a minor-ity of the answers conformed with the Room Theory andmost answers were horizontal.
Other answer types were:vacuous, in which a vertical answer was given on toohigh a level (e.g.
"in the world"), featural, in which73a descr ip t ion ,  ra ther  than a spec i f i ca t ion  of  the loca le ,was given (e .g .  "
i t  i s  a cont inent" ) ,  or  tauto log ica l(e .g .  "
Japan is  in Japan" ) .
The di~'ferent answer types ,we sha l l  say,  are the products  o~ d i f fe rent  a l te rnat iveanswer generat ion  a lgor i thms.
The numer ica l  d i s t r ibu -t ion  of  these answers suggest  that  the order  of  p re fer -ence for the application of the algorithms as the onenoted above.There were also cases in which subjects gave answers ona level lower than the one predicted by the Room Theory.Thus, half the Israelis placed the Empire State BuildingTin New York", and not "in the U.S." Similarly, all theAmericans asked about the Eiffel Tower answered "inParis", and not "in France".
These patterns are attrib-uted to p romlnence.
Prominent objects are ones whichgain a higher ra-~ in the place h/erarchy than would beattributed to them on semantic classificatory groundsalone.
As a consequence, these objects are placed in aroom which is more specific then the one predicted bythe Room Theory.
For instance, New York City is notconceived of by non-Americans as Just another Americancity; it gains an autonomy of its own and is conceivedof as independent of the country in which it is located.The prominence effect suggests that rather than inter-preting the room-hierarchy in a concrete fashion (i.e.as isomorphic to the spatial relations which hold inthe physical world), one should view it as an abstractconceptual representation.
In this representation, ob-Jects ere associated with ta~s: usually, objects whichare actually contained in objects of order n are assign-ed a tag of order n?l, but prominent objects are assign-ed tags of  the same order  as the  ob jec ts  which ac tua l lyconta in  them.
Thus, i f  the Empire S ta te  Bui ld ing i stagged n?l  both New York and the U.S. are  tngged n ,  fo rthe I s rae l i s  the leas t  com-~n room (order  n - l )  i s  thenor thern  hemisphere,  and the answer is  g iven on the  lev -e l  o f  the t~o rooms of  order  n .
Thus, the seeminglyunexpected answers associated with prominent objects aredue to  the modif ied abst rac t  representat ions ,  not to achange in the(ver t i ca l )  a lgor i thm proper .The salience effect is similar, but distinct.
Objectswhich are close to ones which stand ia a particular rel-ation to the respondent (i.e.
physically close, emotion-ally dear, or belonging to the subject) are not placedin a room but receive horizontal answers instead.
Forexample, all the Israelis answered that Lebanon was"north of Israel", and not that it was "in the Mid-East".
Similarly, all the Americans (and half of theIsraells) placed Canada in relation to the U.S. Unlikethe prominence effect, the salience effect does affectthe answer generation algorithm itself, and it bears onindividual or cultural differences, not on general sem-antic com-lderatlons.
4 Specifically, items which erespecial to the speaker are tagged in the representationas marked, and this triggers a shift from the verticalto the horizontal algorlthm.All questions considered so far involved one config-uration: the two conversants and the target were phys-ically distinct, and together they could he contained inone COmmOn room.
This, however, is not the only possi-ble con?iguratlon.
Other confi&~aratious, are possibleas well: (a) The conversants and the target may coin-cide in place, as in the question '~here are we now?".
(b) The conversants ~ay be contained in the target, asin the question "Where is Israel?"
when Posed in Jerus-alem.
(c) The conversants may be in different places,as in phone conversations.Strictly speaklng, the Room Algorithm does not apply tothese configuratlons.
Thus, in (b) the least commonroom is one level above that of the target, but on whatlevel would the answer be?
The Room Algorithm wouldeither return the respondent to the place queried orelse require detailed and perhaps cumbersomDclassific-atlons, neither option is taken.
All the answers to thequestions noted were given on the room immediately abovethe target.
In (a) a least common room may not be cir-cumscribed in the manner outlined by the Room Algorithm,whereas in (c) a distinction between the speaker and thehearer has to be introduced.
All these cases suggestthat the different confi~Jrations do invoke differentgeneration algorithms.
Hence, an appraisal of the con-Flguration is necessary prior to the application of theanswer-generation algorithm proper.So far, the discussion was topological, considering onlythe spatial configuration holding between the conversantsand the object questioned.
The respondent 's knowledgeof the world was not taken into account.
In order toprove the psycho log ica l  va l id i ty  o f  an answer generat ionalgorithm it is crucial to demonstrate that the answergiven is chosen from a class of several feasible answers,and is not the only one possible due to a limited database.
This was the purpose of the closed questionnaires.Two such questionnaires were administered: first, sub-Jests were asked to choose the best of several answersgiven to them; then they were asked to mark all theanswers they deemed true.
Three points were of interest.First, the answers given in the first two conditionswere not necessarily the most specified ones marked inthe third.
Second, there were answers in the multipleoption condition which were evidently true and commonlyknown but which were nonetheless not marked by subjects.These answers included reversed prominence (i.e.
therelation of a prominent object to a less prominent one),featural answers and ones which were too high on theplace hierarchy.
Third, an "~ don't know" answer onthe open questionns/re did not necessarily imply a no-answer in the other conditions.
In other words, thisanswer does not signify complete ignorance, but ratheran appreciation on the part of the subject that he can-not f~u'nish the  answer he deemm appropr ia te .
Together ,the  three  po in ts  ind icate  that  there  i s  indeed a psy -cho log ica l  p rocess  of  answer -generat ion  which does notamount to the specification Of the most detailed inform-ation one has regarding the object in question.Still another aspect which has to be considered is thespeaker's intention when he poses a question.
A study~ this aspect is just on its way now and at this point,I have to limit myself only to a methodological discuss-ion.
Evidently, the process of question-answering re-quires an appraisal of intention (of.
Lehnert, !978),one which involves the evaluation of various contertual,personal and sociological factors.
In order to makeresearch feasible, as well as constructive, a factor-izatlon of the domain of question-answering, I believe,is needed.
In this regard the topological, knowledgeand intention aspects were noted.
The original RoomTheory is an attempt to define the topological aspect.The present study shows that even for this 8spect thisTheory is not sufficient.
The present discussion sugg-ests that an extended topological theory should consistof the following components :I. Semantic and episodic representations, which arenot isomorphic to the physically (logically)defined room-hierar chy.2.
Determinants of confi~Irations and problematiccases (floor, ceiling).3.
A set of ordered answer-generation algorithms:vertical place~nent (the algorithm proposed by theRoom Theory), horizontal relation, featural des-crlption and non-informatlve (vacuous, tautolog-Ical) ?Definitely, the topological consideration is not suffic-ient for the characterization of how people answer wherequestions.
Future investigations should ex~cend theresearch and also include considerations of k~owledgeand intention.
At this Juncture, however, we can no~e74that it is not possible to reduce question answering toknowledge alone, and that some formal selection algor-ithms have to be postulated.
The formal study of suchal~orithms is of relevance to the study of both naturaland artificial intelligence.ReferencesLehnert, W.G.
The process of question answering.Lawrence Erlbaum and Associates, Hillsdale, N.J. ?1978.Norman, D. Memory, knowledge and the answering of ques-tions.
In R. Solso (Ed.)
Contemporar~ Issues inCognitive Psycholo~s', Washington, D.C. : E. Winston,1973.Rumelhart, D. The Room Theory.
Unpublished manuscript,The University of California at San Diego, 197h.75
