UNGRAMHATICALITY AND EXTRA-GRAMMATICALITY IN NATURAL LANGUAGE UNDERSTANDING SYSTEMSStan C. Kwasny asThe Ohio State Univers i tyColumbus, Ohio1.
Int roduct ionAmong the components included in Natural LanguageUnderstanding (NLU) systems is a grammar which spec i f iesmuch of  the l ingu is t i c  s t ructure  of  the utterances thatcan be expected.
However, i t  is  cer ta in  that inputsthat are ill-formed with respect to the grammar will bereceived, both because people regularly formungra=cmatical utterances and because there are a varietyof forms that cannot be readily included in currentgrammatical models and are hence "extra-grammatical".These might be rejected, but as Wilks stresses,"...understanding requires, at the very least, ... someattempt to interpret, rather than merely reject, whatseem to be ill-formed utterances."
\[WIL76\]This paper invest igates  several language phenomenacommonly considered ungrammatical or extra-grammaticaland proposes techniques directed at in tegrat ing  them asmuch as possible into the conventional grammaticalprocessing performed by NLU systems through AugmentedTransition Network (ATN) grammars.
For each NLU system,a "normative" grammar is assumed which specifies thestructure of well-formed inputs.
Rules that are bothmanually added to the original grammar or automaticallyconstructed during parsing analyze the ill-formed input.The ill-formedness is shown at the completion of a parseby deviance from fully grammatical structures.
We havebeen able to do th is  processing while preserving thestructural characteristics of the original grammar andi t s  inherent e f f i c iency .Some of the phenomena discussed have beenconsidered previously in par t i cu la r  NLU systems, see forexample the e l l ips i s  handling in LIFER \[HEN??\].
Sometechniques similar to ours have been used for parsing,see for example the conjunction mechanism in LUNAR\[WOO?3).
On the l ingu is t i c  side, Chomsky \[CHO6q\] andKatz \[KAT6q\], among others have considered the treatmentof ungrammatlcality in Transformational Grammartheories.
The study closest to ours is that ofWeischedel and Black \[WEI?9\].
The present study isdistinguished by the range of phenomena considered, i t ss t ruc tura l  and e f f i c iency  goals, and the inclusion ofthe techniques proposed with in one implementation.This paper looks at these problems, proposesmechanisms aimed at solving the problems, and describeshow these mechanisms are used.
At the end, someextensions are suggested.
Unless otherwise noted, allideas have been tested through implementation.
A moredeta i led and extended discussion of a l l  points may befound in Kwasny \[KWA?9\].I I .
Language PhenomenaSuccess in handling ungrammatical andextra-grammatical input depends on two factors .
Thefirst is the identification of types of ill-formedneseand the patterns they fo l low.
The second is there la t ing  of  i l l - fo rmed input to the parsing path of  agrammatical input the user intends.
This sectionintroduces the types o f  i l l - formedness we have studied,ee Current Address:Computer Science DepartmentIndiana Univers i tyBloomington, IndianaByNorman K. SondheimerSperry UnivacBlue Bell, Pennsylvaniaand discusses their relationshipstructures in terms of ATN grammars.to grammaticalII.I Co-Occurrence ViolationsOur first class of errors can be connected toco-occurrence restrictions within a sentence.
There aremany occassions in a sentence where two parts or moremust agree (= indicates an i l l - fo rmed or ungrammaticalsentence):=Draw a circles.
"I wi l l  stay from now under midnight.The errors in the above involve coordination between theunderlined words.
The first example illustrates simpleagreement problems.
The second involves a complicatedre la t ion  between at least  the three underlined terms.Such phenomena do occur natura l ly .
For example,Shore ($H077\] analyzes fifty-six freshman English paperswr i t ten  by Black col lege students and reveals patternso f  nonstandard usage ranging from uninf lected p lu ra l s ,possessives, and th i rd  person s ingulars toover in f lec t ion  (use of  inappropr iate endings.
)For co-occurrence v io la t ions ,  the blocks that  keepinputs from being parsed as the user intended ar ise froma fa i lu re  o f  a tes t  on an arc or the fa i lu re  to sa t i s fyan arc type res t r i c t ion ,  e .g .
,  fa i lu re  o f  a word to bein the correct  category.
The essent ia l  block in thef i r s t  example would l i ke ly  occur on an agreement test  onan arc accepting a noun, The essent ia l  blockage in thesecond example is likely to come from fa i lu re  of the arctesting the final preposition.11.2 Ellipsis and Extraneous TermsIn handling e l l ips i s ,  the most re levant d i s t inc t ionto make is between contextual  and telegraphic e l l ips i s .Contextual e l l ips i s  occurs when a form only makesproper sense in the context o f  other sentences.
Forexample, the formePresident Carter has.seems ungrammatical without the preceding question formWho has a daughter named Amy?President Carter has.Telegraphic ellipsis, on the other hand, occurswhen a form only makes proper sense in a particulars i tuat ion .
For example, the tome3 chairs no wait ing (sign in barber shop)Yanks sp l i t  (headline in sports sect ion)P ro f i t  margins for  each product(query submitted to a NLU system)19are cases of telegraphic ellipsis with the situationnoted In parentheses.
The final example Is from anexper imenta l  study of NLU for management in fo rmat ionwhich ind icated  that  such forms must be considered\[MAL75\].Another type of unarammaticality related toellipsis occurs when the user puts unnecessary words orphrases In an utterance.
The reason for an extra wordmay be a change of intention In the middle of anutterance, an oversight, or simply for emphasis.
Forexample,?
Draw a llne with from here to there.
"L i s t  p r i ces  o f  s ing le  un i t  p r i ces  fo r  72 and 73.The second example comes from Malhotra \[MALT5\].The best way to see the errors In terms of the ATNis to think of the user as trylng to complete a paththrough the grammar, but having produced an input thathas too many or too few forms necessary to traverse allarcs,II.3 Conjunct ionConjunct ion i s  an extremely  common phenomenon, buti t  i s  seldom d i rec t ly  t reated  in 8 grammar.
We haveconsidered severa l  typos o f  con junct ion .Simple forms o f  con junct ion  occur most f requent ly ,as inJohn loves  Mary and hates Sue.Gapping occurs when in terna l  segments o f  the secondcon junct  are miss ina,  as inJohn loves  Mary and Wary John.The l i s t  form o f  con junct ion  occurs when more than twoelements are jo ined  in a s ing le  phrase, as inJohn loves Wary.
Sue, Nancy.
end B i l l .Correlative con junct ion  occurs in sentences tocoordinate the Joining of constituents, as inJohn both loves and hates Sue.The reason conJuncts are genera l ly  le f t  out  o fgrammars is  that  they can appear in  so many p laces thatinc lus ion  would dramat ica l ly  increase the s ize  o f  thegrammar.
The same argument applies to  the ungrammaticalphenomena.
Since they a l low so much var ia t ion  comparedto grammatical forms, inc lud ing  them with  ex is t ingtechniques would dramatically increase the size oF agram~aar.
Further  there  is  a rea l  d i s t inc t ion  in  termsof completeness and clarity of intent betweengrammatical and ungrammatical forms.
Hence we fee ljustified In suggesting speciai techniques fo r  theirtreatment.I I I .
Proposed Mechanisms and How They ApplyThe fo l low ing  presentat ion  o f  our  techniquesassumes an understanding o f  the ATN model.
Thetechniques are appl ied to the langumae phenomenadiscussed ~n the prev ious section.20I I I .
l  Re laxat ion  TechniquesThe f i r s t  two methods descr ibed are re laxat ionmethods which a l low the successfu l  t raversa l  o f  ATN arcsthat  miaht not o therwise  be t raversed .
Durin8 pars ina ,whenever an arc cannot be taken,  a check i s  made to seei f  some form o f  re laxat ion  can apply .
I f  i t  can.
then abacktrack  po in t  i s  created which inc ludes  the re laxedvers ion  o f  the arc .
These a l te rnat ives  are notconsidered unt i l  a f te r  a l l  poss ib le  8rammatlcsl  pathshave been attempted thereby insur tn8  that  8rammaticelinputs  are s t i l l  handled cor rect ly .
Re laxat ion  o fp rev ious ly  re laxed  arcs is  a lso  poss ib le .
Two methodso f  re laxat ion  have been Invest igated .Our f i r s t  method invo lves  re lax ln8  a tes t  on anarc ,  s imi la r  to the method used by Weisohedel in\[WEI79\].
Test re laxat ion  occurs when the tes t  por t ionof an arc contains a relaxable predicate and the testfa i l s .
Two methods o f  tes t  re laxat ion  have beenident i f ied  and implemented based on pred icate  type.Predicates can be desianated by the grammar writer aseither absolutely violable in which case the oppositevalue of the predicate (determined by the LISP functionNOT applied to the predicate) Is substituted for thepredicate during relaxation or conditionally violable inwhich case s substitute predicate is provided.
Forexample, consider the following to be a test that fails:(AND(INFLECTING V)(INTRAN3 V))I f  the pred icate  INFLECTING was dec lared abso lu te lyv io lab le  and i t s  use in  th i s  tes t  re turned the va lueNIL, then the negat ion o f  (INFLECTING Y) would rep laceIt in the test creating a new arc with the test:(ANDT(INTRANS V))I f  INTRANS were cond i t iona l ly  v io lab le  with thesubstitute predicate TRANS, then the following testwould appear on the new arc :(AND(INFLECTING V)(TRANS V))Whenever more than one tes t  in a fa i l ing  arc i sv io lab le ,  a l l  poss ib le  s ing le  re laxat ions  are attemptedindependent ly .
Abso lu te ly  v io lab le  pred icates  can bepermitted in cases where the test describes somesuper f i c ia l  cons is tency  checking or where the tes t ' sfa i lu re  or  success doesn ' t  have a d i rec t  a f fec t  onmeaning, wh i le  cond i t iona l ly  v io lab le  pred icates  applyto  pred icates  which must be re laxed caut ious ly  or  e lseloss of  meaning may result.ChomsMy discusses the not ion  o f  o rgan iz ing  wordcategor ies  h ie rarch ica l ly  in deve lop ing his ideas ondegrees of grammaticalness.
We have app l ied  andextended these ideas In our second method o f  re laxat ionca l led  catesory  re laxat ion .
In th i s  method, the 8rammarwr i te r  produces, along with the grammar, a h ie rarchydescr ib ing  the re la t ionsh ip  amen8 words, ca tegor ies ,  andphrase types which i s  u t i l i zed  by the re laxat ionmechanism to const ruct  re laxed  vers ions  o f  arcs thath ive fa i led .
When an arc fa i l s  because o f  an arc typefailure (i.e., because a particular word, category, orphrase was not found) a new arc (or  arcs)  may be createdaccording to the descr ip t ion  o f  the word, ca tegory ,  orphrase in the h ie rarchy .
Typ ica l ly .
PUSH arcs w i l lrelax to PUSH arcs, CAT arcs to CAT or PUSH arcs, andWRD or HEM arcs to CAT arcs .
Consider .
fo r  example, thesyntact i c  cateaory  h ie rarchy  fo r  pronouns shown inF igure 1.
For th i s  example, the cateaory  re laxat ionmechanism would allow the relaxation of PERSONALpronouns to include the category PRONOUN.
The arcproduced from category relaxation of PERSONAL pronounsa lso  inc ludes  the subcategor ies  REFLEXIVE andDEMONSTRATIVE in o rder  to  expand the scope o f  termsduring relaxation.
As with test relaxation, successiverelaxations could occur.For both methods of relaxation, "deviance notes"are generated which describe the nature of therelaxation in each case.
Where multiple types ormultiple levels of relaxation occur, a note is generatedfor each of these.
The entire list of deviance notesaccompanies the final structure produced by the parser.In this way, the final structure is marked as deviantand the nature of the deviance is available for use byother components of the understanding system.In our implementation, test relaxation has beenfu l ly  implemented, wh i le  category  re laxat ion  has beenimplemented fo r  a l l  cases except  those invo lv ing  PUSHarcs.
Such an implementation is anticipated, butrequires a modification to our backtracking algorithm.I I I .2  Co-Occurrence and Re laxat ionThe solution being proposed to handled forms thatare deviant because of co-occurrence violations centersaround the use of relaxation methods.
Where simpletests exist within a grammar to filter out unacceptableforms of the type noted above, these tests may berelaxed to allow the acceptance of these forms.
Thisdoesn't eliminate the need for such tests since thesetests help in disambiguation and provide a means bywhich sentences are marked as having violated certainrules.For co-occurrence violations, the point in thegrammar where parsing becomes blocked is often exactlywhere the test or category violation occurs.
An arc atthat point is being attempted and fails due to a failureof the co-occurrence test or categorizationrequirements.
Relaxation is then applied and analternative generated which may be explored at a laterpoint via backtracking.
For example, the sentence:WJohn love  Maryshows a disagreement between the subject (John) and theverb (love).
Most probably this would show up duringparsing when an arc is attempted which is expecting theverb of the sentence.
The test would fall and thetraversal would not be allowed.
At that point, anungrammatical alternative is created for laterbacktracking to consider.III.)
Patterns and the Pattern ArcIn this section, relaxation techniques, as app l iedto the grammar itself, are introduced through the use ofpatterns and pattern-matching algorithms.
Other systemshave used patterns for parsing.
We have devised apowerful method of integrating, within the ATNformalism, patterns which are flexible and useful.In our current formulation, which we haveimplemented and are now tes t ing ,  a pat tern  i s  a l inearsequence of ATN arcs which is matched against the inputstring.
A pattern arc (PAT) has been added to the ATNformalism whose form is similar to that of other arcs:(PAT <pat apec> <test> <act> a <term>)The pattern specification (<pat spec>) is defined as:<pat spec> ::: (<pat t> <mode> a)21<part> ::= (<p arc>*)<pat name><mode> : := UNANCHOROPTIONALSKIP<p arc> : :=  <arc>> <arc><pat name> ::= user-assiGned pattern name>The pattern (<part>) is either the name of a pattern, a">", or a list of ATN arcs, each of which may bepreceded by the symbol ">", while the pattern mode(<mode>) can be any of the keywords, UNANCHOR, OPTIONAL,or SKIP.
These are discussed below.
To refer topatterns by name, a dictionary of patterns is supported.A dictionary of arcs is also supported, allowing thereferencing of arcs by name as well.
Further, namedarcs are defined as macros, allowing the dictionary andthe grammar to be substantially reduced in size.THE PATTERN MATCHERPattern matching proceeds by matching each arc inthe pattern against the input string, but is affected bythe chosen "mode" of matching.
Since the individualcomponent arcs are ,  in a sense, complex pat terns ,  theATN in terpreter  can be cons idered par t  o f  the matchinga lgor i thm as we l l .
In ares w i th in  pat terns ,  exp l i c i tt rans fer  to  a new s ta te  i s  ignored and the next  arcat tempted on success i s  the one fo l low ing  in  thepat tern .
An are in  a pat tern  prefaced by ">"  can becons idered opt iona l ,  i f  the OPTIONAL mode has beense lec ted  to  ac t ivate  th i s  feature .
When th i s  is  done,the matching a lgor i thm s t i l l  a t tempts  to  match opt iona larea,  but  may ignore  them.
A pat tern  unanchor ingcapab i l i ty  is  ac t ivated  by spec i fy ing  the mode UNANCHOR.In this mode, patterns are permitted to skip words priorto matching.
Finally, selection of the SKIP moderesults in words being ignored between matches of thearcs within a pattern.
This is a generalization of theUNANCHOR mode.Pat tern  matching again resu l ts  in dev iance notes .For pat terns ,  they  conta in  in fo rmat ion  necessary todetermine how matching succeeded.SOURCE OF PATTERNSAn automat ic  pat tern  generat ion  mechanism has beenimplemented us ing the t race  o f  the cur rent  execut ionpath to  produce a pat tern .
This i s  invoked by us ing a">" as the pat tern  name.
Pat terns  produced in th i sfash ion  conta in  on ly  those arcs t raversed  at  the cur rentleve l  o f  recurs ion  in the network ,  a l though we arep lann ing  to implement a genera l i za t ion  o?
th i s  in whichPUSH arcs can be automatically replaced by theirsubnet~ork paths .
Each are in an automat ic  pat tern  i smarked as opt iona l .
Pat terns  can a lso  be const ructeddynamica l ly  in  prec ise ly  the same way grammaticalstructures are built using BUILDQ.
The vehicle by whichthis is accomplished is discussed next.AUTOMATIC PRODUCTION OF ARCSPat tern  arcs enter  the grammar in  two ways.
Theyare manua l ly  wr i t ten  in to  the grammar in  those caseswhere the ungrammat ica l i t ies  are common and they  areadded to the grammar automat ica l ly  in  those cases wherethe ungrammat ica l i ty  i s  dependent on context .
Pat ternarcs produced dynamica l ly  enter  the grammar through oneo f  two dev ices .
They may be const ructed  as needed byspecial macro arcs or they may be constructed for futureuse through an expectation mechanism.As the expectatlon-based parsing efforts clearlyshow, syntactic elements especially words conta inimportant  c lues  on process ing.
Indeed.
we a lso  havefound It useful to make the ATN mechanism more "active"by allowing it to produce new arcs based on such clues.TO achieve th i s ,  the CAT, MEM, TBT, and WRD arcs havebeen genera l i zed  and four new "macro" arcs ,  known asCAT e. HEM e, TST a, and WRD e. have been added to the ATNformalism.
These are similar In every way to theircounterpar ts ,  except that  as a f ina l  ac t ion ,  instead ofindicating the state to which the traversal leads, a newarc i s  oonst ructed dynamica l ly  and immediately executed.The d i f fe rence  in the form that  the new arc takes i sseen in  the fo l low ing  pa i r  where <crest  act> Is  used tode f ine  the dynamic arc :(CAT <cat> <test> <act> a <term >)(CAT e <cat> <test> <act> a <creat  act>)Arcs computed by macro arcs can be of any type permittedby the ATN, but one of the most useful arcs to computein this manner is the PAT arc discussed above.EXPECTATIONSThe macro arc forces immediate execution of an arc.Arcs may also be computed and temporarily added to thegrammar for l a te r  execution through an "expectat ion"mechanism.
Expectat ions  are performed as ac t ions  w i th inarcs (analogous to the HOLD act ion  fo r  pars ingstructures) or as actions elsewhere In the MLU system(e.g., during generation when particular types ofresponses can be fo reseen) .
Two forms are a l lowed:(EXPECT <crest act> <state>)(EXPECT <crest act> )In the first case, the arc created is bound to a stateas specified.
When later processing leads to thats ta te ,  the expected arc will be attempted as onealternative at that state.
In the second case, where nostate is specified, the effect is to attempt the arc atevery state visited dur ing the parse.The range of an expectat ion  produced dur ing pars ingis ordinarily l im i ted  to  a single sentence, with the arcdisappearing after it has been used; however, the startstate, S e, is reserved for expectations intended to beactive at the beginning of the next sentence.
Thesewi l l  d isappear  in turn  at  the end- -~prooess ing  fo r  thatsentence.IIZ.q Patterns t Elllpsls~ and Extraneous FormsThe Pattern arc i s  proposed as the pr imarymechanism for  handl ing e l l ips i s  and extraneous forms.
APat tern  arc can be seen as captur ing  a s ing le  paththrough a netWOrk.
The matcher g ives  some freedom Inhow that  path re la tes  to a s t r ing .
We propose that  theappropr ia te  pars ing path through a network re la tes  to ane l l ip t i ca l  sentence or  one with ext ra  words in the sameway.
With contextua l  e l l ips i s ,  the re la t ionsh ip  w i l l  bein having some o f  the arcs on the cor rect  path notsatisfied.
In Pattern arcs, these will be representedby arcs marked as opt iona l .
With contextua l  e l l ips i s ,d ia logue context  w i l l  p rov ide  the de fau l ts  for  themissing components.
With Pattern arcs ,  the deviancenotes will show what was left out and the othercomponents in the ~U system will be responsible forsupplying the values.The source of patterns for contextual ellipsis isimportant .
In L i fe r  \[HEN77\], the prev ious  user inputcan be seen as a pattern for elliptical processing ofthe current input.
The automatic pattern generatordeveloped here, along with the expectat ion  mechanism,w i l l  capture th i s  leve l  o f  process ing .
But with theab i l i ty  to const ruct  a rb i t ra ry  pat terns  and to add themto the grammar from other  components of the MLU system,our approach can acccomplish much more.
For example, aquest ion  generat ion  rout ine  could add an expectat ion  o fa yes/no answer in f ront  o f  a t ransformed rephras ing  o fa quest ion ,  as inDid Amy klas anyone?Yes, J ismy was kissed.Patterns for telegraphic ellipsis will have to beadded to the grammar manually.
Generally, patterns ofusage must be identified, say in a study like that ofMalhotra, so that appropriate patterns can beconstructed.
Patterns for extraneous forms will also beadded In advance.
These w i l l  e i ther  use the unachoropt ion  In o rder  to sk ip  fa l se  s tar ts ,  or  dynamica l lyproduced pat terns  to catch repet i t ions  fo r  emphasis.
Ingenera l ,  on ly  a l im i ted  number o f  these pat terns  shouldbe requ i red .
The value o f  the pat tern  mechanism here,espec ia l l y  In the case of te legraph ic  e l l ips i s ,  w i l l  bein connect ing the ungrammatical to grammatical  forms.III.5 Conjunct ion and Macro ArcsPat tern  arcs are a l so  proposed as the pr imarymechanism for  handl ing  con junct ion .
The ra t iona le  fo rth i s  i s  the o f ten  noted connect ion between con junct ionand e l l ips i s ,  see fo r  example Ha l l tday  and Haman\[HAL75\].
This i s  c lear  wi th  gapping,  as in thefo l low ing  where the parentheses show the missingcomponentJohn loves Mary and Mary ( loves)  John.BUt i t  a l so  can be seen wi th  o ther  forms, as inJohn loves  Mary and (John) hates Sue.John loves  Hary, (John loves)  Sue, (John loves)Mancy, and (John loves)  B i l l .Whenever a con junct ion  i s  seen, a pat tern  i s  developedfrom the a l ready  ident i f ied  elements and matched aga ins tthe remaining segments of i nput .
The heur i s t i cs  fordec id ing from which leve l  to produce the pat tern  fo rcethe most genera l  in terpretat ion  in order  to encourage ane l l ip t i ca l  read ing .A l l  o f  the forms o f  con junct ion  descr ibed above aret reated  through a g loba l ly  def ined set  o f  "con junct ionarcs"  (Some res t r i c ted  cases, such as "and" fo l low ing"between",  have the con junct ion  bu i l t  in to  the grammar).In genera l ,  th i s  set  w i l l  be made up o f  macro arcs whichcompute Pat tern  arcs .
The automatic  pat tern  mechanismis  heav i ly  used.
With simple con junct ions ,  ther ightmost  elements in the pat terns  are matched.In terna l  elements In pat terns  are skipped wi th  gapping.The l l s t  form o f  con junct ion  can a lso  be handled throughthe care fu l  const ruct ion  o f  dynamic pat terns  which arethen expected at  a la ter  po in t .
Cor re la t ives  aretreated similarly, with expectations based on thedynamic building of patterns.There are a number o f  deta i l s  in our proposal  whichw i l l  not be presented.
There are a lso  v i s ib le  l im i ts .i t  i s  ins t ruct ive  to  compare the proposal  to the SYSCONjfacility of Woods \[W0073\].
It treats conjunction as22showing alternative ways of continuing a sentence.
Thisallows for sentences such asHe drove his car through and broke a plate glasswindow.which at best we will accept with a misleading deviancenote.
However, i t  can not handle the obvious e l l ip t i ca lcases, such gapping, or the t ight ly  constra ined cases,such as correlatives.
We expect to continueinvestigating the pattern approach.I I I .6  Interaction of TechniquesAs grammatical processing proceeds, ungrammaticalpossibilities are continually being suggested from thevarious mechanisms we have implemented.
To coordinateall of these activities, the backtracking mechanism hasbeen improved to keep track of the:le alternatives.
Allpaths in the original grammar are attempted first.
Onlywhen these all fail are the conjunction alternatives andthe manually added and dynamical ly  producedungrammatical alternatives tried.
All of thealternatives of these sorts connected with a singlestate can be thought of as a single possibility.
Aselection mechanism is used to determine which backtrackpoint among the many potential alternatives is worthexploring next.
Currently, we use a method also used byWelschedel and Black \[WEI79\] of selecting thealternative with the longest path length.IV.
Conclusion and Open QuestionsThese results are significant, we believe, becausethey extend the state of the art in several ways.
Mostobvious are the following:The use of the category hierarchy  to handle arctype failures;The use of the pattern mechanism to allow forcontextual ellipsis and gapping;More generally, the use of patterns to allow formany sorts of ellipsis and conjunctions; andFinally, the orchestration of all of the techniquesin one coherent system, where because allgrammatical alternatives are tried first and nomodifications are made to the original grammar, itsinherent efficiency and structure are preserved.IV.1 Open ProblemsVarious questions for further research have arisenduring the course of this work.
The most important ofthese are discussed here.Better control must be exercised over the selectionof viable alternatives when ungrammatical possibilitiesare being attempted.
The longest-path heuristic issomewhat weak.
The process that decides this would needto take into consideration, among other things, whetherto allow relaxation of a criteria applied to the subjector to the verb in a case where the subject and verb donot agree.
The current path length heuristic wouldalways relax the verb which is clearly not alwayscorrect.No consideration has been given to the possibleconnection of one error wlth another.
In some cases,one error can lead to or affect another.Several other types of ill-formedness have not beenconsidered in th i s  study, fo r  example, idioms,metaphors, incor rect  word order ,  run together  sentences,incor rect  punctuat ion,  misspe l l ing ,  and presuppos i t iona lfa i lu re .
E i ther  l i t t le  i s  known about these processesor they have been studied elsewhere independent ly .
Ine i ther  case, work remains to be done.V.
AcknowledgmentsWe wish to acknowledge the comments of RalphWeischedel and Marc Fogel on previous drafts of thispaper.
Although we would like to blame them, anyshortcomings are clearly our own fault.VI.
Bibliography\[CHO6q\]\[FOD64\]\[HAL76\](HEN77\]\[KAT643\[KWA793\[MAL75\]\[SHO77\]\[WEI79\]\[ WIL76 \]\[wo0733Chomsky, N., "Degrees o f  Grammaticalness," in\[FOD6~\], 38q-389.Fodor, J.
A. and J. J. Katz, The Structure ofLanguage: Readings in the Phi losophy o fLanguage, P rent ice -Ha l l ,  Englewood C l i f f s ,  NewJersey, 196q.Ha l l iday ,  M.A.K.
and R. Hasan, Cohesion inEngl ish,  Longman, London, 1976.Hendrlx,  G. G., "The LIFER Manual," TechnicalNote 138, Artificial Intelligence Center,Stanford Research Ins t i tu te ,  Menlo Park,Ca l i fo rn ia ,  February, 1977.Katz, J .
J .
,  "Semi-Sentences," in \[FOD64\],qoo-q16.Kwasny, S., "Treatment o f  Ungrammatical andExtragrammatical Phenomena in Natura l  LanguageUnderstanding Systems," PhD dissertation(forthcoming), Ohio State University, 1979.Malhotra, A., "Design Criteria for aKnowledge-Based English Language System forManagement: An Experimental Analysis," MACTR-I~6, M. I .T .
,  Cambridge, Ha, February, 1975.Shores, D .L .
,  "Black Engl ish and BlackAt t i tudes , "  in Papers in Language Var ia t ion .D .L .
Shores and C. PT-Hines (Ed--~.
\] ~eUn ivers i ty  of Alabama Press, Un ivers i ty ,Alabama, 1977.Weischedel, R. M., and J.
Black, "Responding toPotentially Unparseable Sentences," manuscript,Department of Computer and InformationSciences, University of Delaware, Newark,Delaware, 1979.Wilka, Y., "Natural Language UnderstandingSystems Within the A.I.
Paradigm: A Survey,"American Journal of Computational Lin~uistlcs,~h~-#-~ 1T 1976.Woods, W. A2 "An Experimental Parsing Systemfor Transition Network Grammars," in NaturalLanguage Processing, R. Muslin (Ed . )
,Algorithmlcs Press, 1973.PRONOUNREFLEXIVE /;o ihe she .
.
.
yourse l f  .
.
.
th i s  that  .
.
.F igure 1.
A Category Hierarchy23
