PI~OSI'ECTS FOR COMI'UTER-ASSISTED DIALECT A1)APTIONDavid J. WeberUCI,A and Summer Inst i tute  of L inguist icsWi l l iam C. MannUSC Informat ion Sciences Inst i tuteWhen a document is to appear ill several dialects orclosely related langu-Res, there are many practical reasonsfor  adapt ing  It from one to another rather than preparingseparate translations.
I Iowever, manual adaptlon can betedious, errorful, and requires a bidialectal adaptor (oftenunavailable) and/or qual i f ied linguist (if available, veryexpens ive) .
Computer-aided adaption might  be ana l te rnat ive ,  but Is it feasible to wr i te  a computer programwhich  contributes enough to be worth the bother and cost?For the source dialect ($D) is provided a root d ic t ionaryand a su f f i x  d ict ionary;  each entry  contains the s t r ing  ofcharacters by which that morpheme is recognized,morphological category, morphophonemic properties .... andfor  roots, the "0 for,n.
For each target dialect (TD) isprovided a su f f i x  dictionary, a list of the regular soundchanges (RSC's) which when applied to a "O root w i l l  yieldthe  correct  TI} ref lex,  and a l ist of pairs of roots not cognatein the  SD and TD,This  paper describes an exper iment  in computattonal lyass i s t ing  t i le adapt;on of text from one dialect of centralPeruv ian  Quechua (a polysynthet ic ,  al :glut inat ive.
AmericanInd ian language)  to ~everal others.
The overal l  results areext remely  encouraging:  computer-aided dialect adaptton isfeas ib le  and has important  advantages over ent i re ly  manualmethods.Bolow we describe the dialect s ituation, the data andprocesses of the exper imenta l  program, and a field test oftext  produced by the program.Six dialects d i f fe r ing  phonological ly,  l ex ica l ly ,  andl ; ran |n |a t l ca l l y  were  involved.
The rich d lvcrs i ty  ofd i f fe rences  are dominated by a few kinds of systemat icd i f fe rence.
The program treats these classes of d i f ferenceseparate ly  ra ther  than by a s ingle method (such as str ingsubst i tu t ion) :  th is  requires a detai led analysis of the sourced ia lect  text .Examples  of the k inds of d l f ferences involved:Phonolog.icah the reflexes of four proto-Ouechua ('O)phonemes  ('/~/'l~/'fMf/fl/) --in the government-mandatedorthography--  are: Panao: tr ch II Ji.
Huallaga: ch  ch \]I if.Dos-de-Mayo:  ch  t~ I n. l,lata: ch s I n. Yanahuanca: t, xr t ss I n.and Junln: tr ch I n.I , -x lcah 'to ~et we l l / recover  from an illnes~' i~ex-pressed w i th  the root a l lchaka:-  in I iual laga, a l iya:-  inl,lata, and kachaka: -  In Jun in .Gran|mat lcah 1 ) Morphologicah a su f f ix  may be presentIn one dialect  and absent in another; the forms or propertiesof cor responding suf f ixes  may d i f ier  across dialects; thereare d i f fe rent  syMems of lndtcatlnf', p lura l i ty  with in  theverb., in some dialects there are 3-5 dist inct  plural lzersoccur r ing  in d i f fe rent  "slots" and conditioned by what  othersu f f i xes  occur in the word;  In others there is on ly  onep lura l i zor  wh ich  has a f ixed posit/on; ~-) Syntactic: thecomplements  of phasal verbs ('begin', 'finish'...) aresubordlnatod as adverbial clauses in some dialects but asinfinitival (object)clauses in others.A TD root d ic t ionary  Is computat lonal ly  der ived by I)app ly ing  the RSC's to the "Q form of each $D root and ~-)subst i tu t ing  the TD root for non-cognate root pairs.Tc, xt is adapted word by word, f irst analyz ing SD wordsand then synthes iz ing  TI) words.
(An ear ly penct l -and- lmper, ,xper i ;nent  sul%~,ested that for Ouechua, word -by -wordmethods  could effect approx imate ly  95% of the requiredehange,~.)
After or thographic  adjustments,  a simple.recursivc, exhaustive search attempts to decompose eachword  Into a root and zero or more suf f ixes  by match ing  theword 's  characters  to the str ings of characters of d ict ionaryent r ies  sub ject  to constra ints  of a bu i l t - in  morphology.
Testsare appl ied 1) dur ing  the search to teat  the su i tab i l i ty  of amatch ing  su f f i x  as the immediate succe~or  to whatprecedes, and 2) after  all the word is matched to morphemesto test the.
overa l l  su i tab i l i ty  of that sequence of morphemes.Th-sc  tests constra in  possible decomposit ions to w i th inmanagab le  l tnl i ts .
Word decomposltioq is complicated byvar ious  morphophonemic  processes.P lura l i zat ion di f ferences are accommodated by 1)tagg ing  as p lura l  each decomposit ion wh ich  contains a p lura lmorpheme,  2) de let ing that p lural  morpheme, and 3)inser t ing  the appropr iate plural ize!
for the TD word.,Synthesis of a TD word proceeds by 1) subst i tu t ing  theSD root by the corresponding TD root from the( :o iuputat ionai ly  der ived TI} root d ict im|ary,  Z) select ing foreach morpheme the correct al lomorph, 3) concatenation ofthe  a l lomorphs,  and 4) orthographic  adjustment.
Examplesare shown in F igure 1.Many words  have mul t ip le  decompositions but th is  isto lerab le  because synthes is  of a l ternat ive decomposit ions ofone 5D word  usua l ly  yield identical  TD words.
Nonidenticala l te rnat ives  for one SD word are left to the choice of thehuman ed i to r /checker .About 40 pages of text  were adapted into each of 5target  d ia lects  for use in the field test.
Sampling indicatesthat  the computer  correct ly changed about 760 morphemesper 1000 words  of text;  in the worst  case nat ive speakers109SO orlhogriphi?
form: ( l)  lywarkaykanThe word  analyzer produces, in succession:length converted: (2) aywarkaykan$egmentatlon: (3) aywa-rka-yka-nmorphophonemic form: (4) saywa-RKA-YKA:-3DlurJdify handled: (5) (taywa-YKA:-3).t4=LThe word synthesizer  produces, in succession:r e-plu,alizalion: (6) IIywi-YKA:-YA:-3allomorph selection: (7) aywa-yka:-ye-nTD or'thoQf'aphic form: (8) aywaykasyan'lhey are joins"Figure Isuggested about 190 additional changes per |000  words.
Thecomputer  converted text wh ich  otherwise would have beenat best only  marginal ly  lntellit~lble to a speaker of anotherdialect into - -w i th  a few exceptions-- fu l ly  comprehensibletext .
Thus  the program brings a text being adapted closeenough to the TD that it can be edited/corrected by a nativespeaker of the TD w i thout  much coaching or reference to the3D text.Since Inevitably there is a non-tr ivial  residue ofchanges  Infeasible for the computer, its output requiressubsequent  manual  correcting/editing.
Therefore, ratherthan  str ive to make the program do everything imaginable, itis w ise  to do the overwhelming number of systemic, "lowlevel" changing and not unduly  complicate the prol~ram toaccommodate oo much.
The test identified many relativelyin f requent  changes not handled by the present program.
Formost of them, computational daptlon is not feasible.
Theseare discus.sod in a version of this paper wh ich  has beenpubl ished by Note~ ~.
Linguistics.
$IL.
It is available fromThe Internat ional  Linguistics Center, 7500 Camp WisdomRoad, Dallas TX 75236 for  $.75 , as Special Publ ication 1,Prospects fo r  Compttter-Assistod Dialect Adeption.Conclusion: A computer can contribute s ignif icantly toadaption between dialects or closely related languages.
(9) lywirk|arinanp|q(10) lywirks:rin|npsa(l i) lyWl-rka-:ri-na-n-p|Cl(l 2) saywi-RKU-:RI-NA-3P-PAQ(13) (eaywa-RKU-NA-3P-PAO).
(.PL(| 4) eaywa-RKU-YA:-NA-3P-PAO(15) lyws-rku-ya:-nl-n-paq(i6) sywsrkuyaananpaQ'in order that they 8o'110
