Taxonomy, Descr ip t ions ,  and Ind iv idua lsin Natura l  Language Understand ingRonald J. BrachmanBolt Beralmek and Newman Inc.KLONE i s  a genera l -purpose  language fo r  represent ingconceptual information.
Several of its pr~linentfeatures - -  semantically clean inheritance of structureddescriptions, taxonomic classification of gpnericknowledge, intensional structures for functional roles(including the possibility of multiple fillers), andprocedural attachment (with automatic invocation)make it particularly useful in computer-based naturallanguage understanding.
We have implemented a prototypenatural language system that uses KLONE extensively inseveral facets of its operation.
This paper describesthe system and points out some of the benefits of usingKLONE for representation in natural language processing.Our system is the beneficiary of two kinds of advantagefrom KLONE.
First, the taxonomic character of thestructured inheritance net facilitates the processin~involved in analyzing and responding to an utterance.In particular, (I) it helps guide parsing by ruling outsemantically meaningless paths, (2) it provides agenera l  way o f  o rgan iz ing  and invok ing  semanticinterpretation rules, and (3) it allows algorithmicdeterminat ion  of equ iva lent  sets of entities for certainp lan- recogn i t ion  in ferences .
Second, KLONE'srepresentational structure captures some of thesubtleties of natural lanKuage expression.
That is, itprovides a general way of representing exactly thequantificational import of a sentence without over-committing the interpretation to scope or multiplicitynot overtly specified.The paper first presents a brief overall description ofthe natural language system.
Then, prior to describinghow we use KLONE in the system, we discuss some of thelanguage's features at a general level.
Finally we lookin  detail at how KLONE affords us the advantages listedabove.1.
THE TASK AND THE SYSTEMGenera l ly  speaking,  we want to prov ide  a natura linterface to a subsystem that knows how to presentconceptual information intelligently (on a bit-map dis-p lay)  - -  in this case the Augmented Transition Network(ATN) grammar from bae LUNAR system \ [5 \ ] .
The in forma-t ion  presentation subsystem allows flexible specifica-tion of coord inate  system mappings, inc lud ing  rec tangu-la r  windows, from parts of the ATN onto a sequence of"view surfaces".
Object types can be assigned arbitrarypresentation forms (graphic or alphanumeric), which canbe modified in particular cases.
Parts of the grammarare d i sp layed  accord ing to stand ing orders  and spec ia lrequests about shape and projection.Our task is to command and control the intelligentgraphics subsystem through natural language.
Forexample, a sample dialogue with the system might includeth i s  sequence of ut terances :(I) Show me the clause level network.\[System displays states and arcs of the S/ network\](2)  Show me S/NP.\[System h igh l ights  s ta te  S/NP\]preverbal states\](4) No.
I want to be able to see S/AUX.\[System "backs off" display so as to include stateS/AUK\]At the same time, we would like to  ask factual questionsabout the states, arcs, etc.
of the ATN (e.g.
"What arethe conditions on this <user points> arc?").
Ouestionsand commands addressed to the system typically (I) makeuse o f  e lements o f  the preceding d ia logue ,  (2)  can beexpressed indirectly so that the surface form does notreflect the real intent, and (3) given our graphicalpresentation system, can make reference to a shared non-linguistic context.
The issues of anaphora, (indirect)speech acts, and deixis are thus of principal concern.The natural language system is organized as illustratedin Figure I a.
The user sits at a bit-map terminalmi~'ti,l' ot~v~l +/T~X~ ~p~r  .
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
,,J '--/Figure I.
System structure(highlighting types of knowledge involved).equipped w i th  a keyboard and a po in t ing  dev ice .
Typedinput  from the keyboard (poss ib ly  in terspersed  w i thcoord inates  from the po in t ing  dev ice)  is  analyzed by avers ion  o f  the RU_~S System \ [2 \ ]  ~ an ATN-based increment -al parser that is closely coupled with a "case-framedictionary".
In our system, this dictionary is embodiedin a syntact i c  taxonomy represented in KLONE.
Theparser  produces a KLONE representat ion  o f  the syntact i cs t ructure  o f  an ut terance .
Incrementa l ly  along w i th  i t sp roduct ion ,  th i s  syntact i c  s t ructure  t r iggers  thec reat ion  o f  an in terpretat ion .
The in terpretat ions t ructure  - -  the l i te ra l  ( sentent ia l )  semantic contentof the ut terance  - -  is then processed by a discourseexpert that attempts to determine what was really meant.In this process, anaphoric expressions must be resolvedand indirect speech acts recognized.
Finally, on thebasis of what is determined to be the intended ~orce of(3)  Focus in  on the preverba l  const i tuents .\[System sh i f t s  scale and centers  the d isp lay  on thea Dashed elements o f  the f igure  are proposed but  not yetimplemented.33the ut terance,  the discourse component decides how thesystem should respond.
I t  plans i t s  own speech ord isp lay  act ions ,  and passes them o f f  to the languagegeneration component (not yet implemented) or d isp layexper t .
Some of  these operat ions w i l l  be discussed inmore detail in Section 3.2.
THE REPRESENTATION LANGUAGEBefore we look at deta i l s  of  the system's use Of KLONE,we br ie f ly  sketch out some of i t s  cogent features .
)CLONE is a uni fom language for the explicitrepresentat ion  o f  natural language conceptualinformation based on the idea of structured inher i tancenetworks \ [3 \ ] .
The pr inc ipa l  representat iona l  elementsof ~ONE are Concepts, of which there are two majortypes - -  Generic and Ind iv idua l .
Generic Concepts arearranged in an inher i tance s t ruc ture ,  expressinglong-term generic knowledge as a taxonomy a.
A s ing leGeneric Concept is a description template,  f rom whichindividual descriptions (in the form of IndividualConcepts) are fo rmed.
Generic Concepts can be bui l t  asspecializations of other Generic Concepts, to which theyare attached by inher i tance Cables.
These Cables formthe backbone of  the network (a Generic Concept can havemany "superConcepts" as wel l  as many "subConcepts").They carry  structured descriptions from a Concept to itssubConcepts.KLONE Concepts are h igh ly  st ructured ob jec ts .
AsubConoept inher i t s  a st ructured de f in i t ion  from i t sparent aa and can modify i t  in a number of s t ruc tura l lyconsistent ways.
The main elements of the structure areRoles, which express re la t ionsh ips  between a Concept andother  closely assooiatnd Concepts (i.e.
its properties,par ts ,  e tc . )
.
Roles themselves have s t ruc ture ,including desoriptlons of potential f i l l e rs  eee, modalityln fomat ion ,  and names aaee.
There are bas ica l ly  twokinds of Roles in )O.ONE: RoleSets and IRoles.
RoleSetshave potentially many fillers e~.g.
the officerRole aeaea of a par t i cu la r  COMPANY would be filled oncefo r  each o f f i cer ) .
A RoleSet has as part  o f  i t sinternal s t ructure  a restriction on the number ofposs ib le f i l l e rs  i t  can have in any par t i cu la r  instance.A RoleSet on an Ind iv idua l  Concept stands for  thepar t i cu la r  set o f  f i l l e rs  fo r  that  par t i cu la r  concept.An IRole (for Instance Role) appears on an I nd iv idua lConcept to express the binding of a par t i cu la r  value tothe Role i t  plays in that  Concept.
(There would beexact ly  one IRole for each officer s lo t  of a par t i cu la rcompany, resardless of the actual  number of peopleplaying those ro les .
)There are several inter-Role relationships in KLONE,which relate the Roles of a Concept to those of ssdperConcept.
Such re la t ionsh ips  are carr ied in theinher i tance Cables mentioned ear l ie r .
They include- restriction (of f i l l e r  description and number); e.g.that  a par t i cu la r  kind o f  COMPANY w i l l  have exact lythree officers, all ot whom must be over ~5; this isa relationship between RoleSets, in which the moreres t r i c ted  RoleSet has a l l  o f  the proper t ies  o f  theone it restricts, with its own local restrictionsadded conjunctively;- d i f fe rent ia t ion  (o f  a Role into subRoles); e .g .d i f fe rent ia t ing  the officers of a COMPANY intopres ident ,  v i ce -pres ident ,  e tc .
;  this is also are la t ionsh ip  between two RoleSets carry inginher i tance  - -  the more spec i f i c  Roles inher i t  a l lp roper t ies  o f  the parent Role except for  the numberrestriction;- particularization (o f  a RoleSet fo r  an IndividualConcept); e.g.
the officers of BBN are a l lCOLLEGE-GRADUATEs;- satisfaction (binding of a particular fillerdescription into a particular Role in an IndividualConcept); e .g .
the pres ident  o f  BBN is  STEVE-LEW:this iS the relationship between an IRole and itsparent RoleSet.Figure 2 illustrates the use of  Cables and the structuret The network is a par t ia l  order ing with a topmostelement - -  the Concept o f  an INDIVIDUAL - -  below whicha l l  other Concepts appear.
There is no " leas t "  elementin the net,  whose f r inge  is composed of  Ind iv idua lConcepts not re lated to each other .e, This inher i tance impl ies in ter  a l ia  that ,  i f  STATE isa subConcept of ATN-CONSTITUENT, then any par t i cu la rs ta te  is  by de f in i t ion  also an ATN const i tuent .?
ee These l im i ta t ions  on the fom of  par t i cu la r  f i l l e rsare cal led "Value Rest r i c t ions"  (V /R 's ) .
I f  more thanone V/R is appl icable at a given Role, the res t r i c t ionsare taken con junct ive ly .?
,ae Names are not used by the system in any way.
Theyare merely conveniences for  the user.,mess In the text  that  fo l low,  Roles w i l l  be indicatedas underlined names and Concepts w i l l  be indicated bya l l  upper case expressions.Figure 2.
A piece o f  a KLONE taxonomy.o f  Concepts in a piece of  the KLONE taxon?fay for  the ATNgrammar, In th i s  f igure ,  Concepts are presented ase l l ipses  ( Ind iv idua l  Concepts are shaded), Roles assmall squares ( IRoles are f i l l ed  in ) ,  and Cables asdouble- l ined arrovJ .
The most general Concept,ATN-CONSTITUENT, has two subConcepts - -  STATE and ARC.These each inher i t  the general propert ies  of ATNconst i tuents ,  namely, each is known to have a34displayForm associated with it.
The subnetwork belowARC expresses the classification of the various types ofarcs in the ATN and how their conceptual structuresvary.
For example, a CONNECTING-ARC has a nextState(the state in which the transit ion leaves the parsingprocess), while for POP-ARCs the term is not meaningful( i .e .
there is no nextState Role).
Links that connectthe Roles of more specific Concepts with correspondingRoles in their parent Concepts are considered to travelthrough the appropriate Cables.
Final ly,  the structureof an Individual Concept is i l lustrated by CATARC#0117.Each IRole expresses the f i l l i ng  of a Role inheritedfrom the hierarchy above - -  because CATARC#0117 is aCAT-ARC, it has a category; because it is also aCONNECTING-ARC, it has a nextState, etc.The structure of a Concept is completed by its set ofStructural Descriptions (SD's).
These express how theRoles of the Concept interrelate via the use ofparameterized versions ("ParalndividJals") of otherConcepts in the network to describe quantified relationsbetween the ultimate f i l l e rs  of the Concept's Roles.The quantification is expressed in terms of set mappingsbetween the RoleSet3 of a C~ncept, thereby quantifyingover their sets of fillers.
In addition to quantifiedrelations between potential R~le fi\]lers, simplerelations like subset and get equality can be expressedwith a special kind of SD ~:alled a "RoleValueMap" (e .g .the relation that "the object of the precondition of aSEE i s  the same as the object ~f its effect").
SD's areinherited through cable~ and are particularized in amanner similar to that of Roles.There i s  one important feature  of KLONE that I wouldlike to point out, although it is not yet used in thenatural language system.
The language carefullydistinguishes between purely descriptional structure andassertions about coreference, existence, etc.
All ofthe structure mentioned above (Concepts, Roles, SD's andCables) is definitional.
A separate construct called aNexus is a LJsed as a locus of coreference for IndividualConcepts.
One expresses coreference of descriptionrelative t~ a Context by placing a Nexus in that Contextand attaching to it Individual Concepts considered to becoreferential.
AI\] assertions are made relative to aContext, and thus do not affect the (descriptive)taxonomy of' generic knowledge.
We anticipate thatNexuses w i l l  be impor tant  in reasoning about par t i cu -la rs ,  answering quest ions  (espec ia l ly  in dec id ing  theappropriate form for an answer), and resolving anaphoricexpressions, and that Contexts will be of use inreasoning about hypotheticals, beliefs, and wants.The f inal feature of KLONE relevant to our particularapplication is the ahility to attach procedures and datato structures in the network.
The attached proceduremechanism is implemented in a very general way.
Proce-dures are attached to k'LONE ent i t ies  by " interpret ivehooks" (ihooks), which specify the set of situations inwhich they are to be triggered.
An interpreter functionoperating on a KLONE entity causes the invocation of allprocedures inherited by or directly attached to thatentity by thooks whose situations match the intent ofthat f.~nction.
Situations include things like"Individuate", "Modify", "Create", "Remove", etc.
Inaddition to a general situation, an ihook specifies whenin the executinn of the interpreter function it is to beinvoked (PRE-, POST-, or WHEN-).3.
USE OF KLONE IN THE NATURAL LANGUAGE SYSTEMThe previous section described the features of KLONE ingeneral terms.
Here we illustrate how they facilitatethe performance of our natural language system.
(FigureI above sketched the places within the system of thevariou~ KLONE knowledge bases discussed here.)
We willdiscuss the use of a syntactic taxonomy to constrainpars ing and index semantic interpretation rules, andstructures used in the syntactic/discourse interface toexpress the literal semantic content of an utterance.The parser  uses KLONE to descr ibe  potential syntacticstructures.
A taxonomy of syntactic constituentdescriptions, with C~ncepts like PHRASE, NOUN-PHRASE,LOCATION-PP, and PERSON-WORD, is used to express howphrases are built from their constituents.
The taxonomyalso serves as a discrimination net, allowing commonfeatures of constituent types  to be expressed in asingle place, and distinguishing features to causebranching into separate subnets.Two benefits accrue from this organization of knowledge.First, shallow semantic constraints are expressed in theRoles and SD's of Concepts like LOCATION-PP.
Forexample, the prepObject )f a LOCATION-PP must be aPLACE-NOUN.
A description of "on AI" (as in "book onAI") as a LOCATION-PP c~Id  not be constructed since AIdoes not satisfy the value restriction for the headrole.
Such constraints help rule out mislead in 8 parsepaths, in the manner ~f a 3emantic grammar \ [4\] ,  byrefusing to construct semantically anomalous constituentdescriptions.
In conj~..tion with the general (ATN)grammar of English, this is a powerful guidancemechanism which helps parsing proceed close todeterministically \[2).Second, the syntactic taxonomy serves as a structure onwhich to hang semantic projection rules.
Since thetaxonomy is an inheritance structure, the description ofa given syntactic constituent inherits all semanticinterpretation rules appropriate for each of the moregeneral constituent types that it specializes, and canhave its own special-purpose rules as well.
In theexample above, simply by virtue of its placement in thetaxonomy, the Concept for "on AI" would inher i t  rulesre levant  to PP's in genera l  and to SUBJECT-PP's inparticular, but not those appropriate to LOCATION-PP's.Interpretation per se is achieved using the attachedprocedure facility, with semantic projection rulesexpressed as functions attached to Roles of the syntac-tic Concepts.
The functions specify how to translatepieces of syntactic structure into "deeper" Concepts andRoles.
For example, the subject of a SHOW-PHRASE mightmap into the a~ent o f  a DISPLAY action.The mapping rules are triggered automatically by theKLONE interpreter.
This is facilitated by theinterpreter's "pushing down" a Concept to the mostspecific place it can be considered to belong in thetaxonomy (using only "analytic", definitionalconstraints).
Figure 3 illustrates schematically theway a Concept can descend to the most specific levelimplied by its internal description.
The Concept beingadded to the network is an NP whose head is "ARC" andwhose modifier is "PUSH" (NP@OO23).
It is initiallyconsidered a direct (Generic) subConoept of the Conceptfor its basic syntactic type (NP).
Its Role structure,however, implies that it in fact belongs in a morerestricted subclass of NP's, that is, TYPED-ARC-NP (anNP whose head is an ARC-NOUN and whose modifier is anARC-TYPE-WORD).
The interpreter, on the basis of onlydefinitional constraints expressed in the network,places the new Concept below its "most specificsubsumer" -- the proper place for it in the taxonomy.The process proceeds incrementally, with each new pieceof the constituent possibly causing further descent.
Inthis case, NP@O023 would initially only have its headRole specified, and on that basis, it would be placedunder ARC-NP (which is "an NP whose head is anARC-NOUN").
Then the parser would add the modifierspecification, causing the Concept's descent to theresting place shown in the right half of Figure 3.
Whenthe constituent whose description is being added to thenetwork is "popped" in the parser, its IOL.ONE descriptiom35Figure U. XLONE description ofglgure 3.
Automatic Concept descent.i s  indtv idueted - -  causing the invocat ion o f  a l l  "WHEN-Ind iv iduated"  attached procedures inher i ted  throughsuperconcept Cables.
These procedures cause aninterpretation for the constituent to be built on thebasis of the interpretations of component parts of thesyntactic description.This IAteral semantic i n te rpreta t ion  o f  a phrase -- alsoa KLONE s t ruc ture  - -  is  the " input"  to  the discoursecomponent.
An important element o f  th i s  i n te r facebetween the syntactic processor and the discoursecomponent is that the parser/interpreter commits itselfonly to informat ion exp l i c i t l y  present In the inputphrase, and leaves a l l  in ference about quant i f ie r  scope,etc .
to the discourse expert .
Two kinds o f  representa-t iona l  structures support this.
The Concept O3\[T (for"determined set") is used extensively to capture setsimp l i c i t  in noun phrases and clauses.
~EYs use theinherent multiplicity of RoleSets to group togetherseveral entities under a single Concept, and associatedeterminers (deCinlte/indeflnite, quantifiers, etc.
)with such a set of entities.
A DSET can express thecharacteristics of a set of entities without enumeratingthem explicitly, or even indicating how many members theset is expected to have.
RoleYalueMaps a11ow, const ra in ts  between DSETs to be expressed in a generalway -- a RoleValueMsp expresses a subset or equalltyrelation between two RoleSets.
Such relations can beconstructed without knowlng in advance the csrdinalltyof the sets or any of their members.Figure 4 i l l us t ra tes  the use o f  these s t ructures  toexpress the in tent  o f  the sentence, "Show me statesS/NP, S/AUX, and S/DCL "e. DSET#O035 represents thein terpreta t ion  o f  the noun phrase, "the states  ~/HP,S/AUX, and ~/DCL".
The generic DSET Concept has twoRoles, mamb~r and determiner .
The member Role can bef i l l ed  mul t ip ly ,  and there in  l i es  the "settedness" o fthe \[\]SET.
\[~ET#O035 has a par t i cu la r i zed  version o f  the?
RoleSets in this figure are drawn as squares withcircles around them.
RoleSets with filled-in circlesare a special kind of  particularized RoleSet that canoccur only in Individual Concepts.
The RoleValueMap ispictured as a diamond.
"Show me states S/NP, S/AUX, and S/DCL".member Role: Role R1 represents the set oC three s tatesmentioned in the noun phrase, as a group.
Thus, theValue Rest r i c t ion  o f  R1, STATE, appl ies  to each member.The three 1Roles of DSETIO035, connected by "Sat i s f ies"l inks  to the par t i cu la r i zed  member RoleSat, ind icatethat  the par t i cu la r  s tates  are the members o f  the set e.The other  DSET in the f igure ,  r~ETmO037, represents thec lause- leve l  s t ruc ture  o f  the sentence.
The clause hasbeen in terpreted  into  something l i ke  "the user hasperformed what looks on the surface to be a request forthe system to show the user some set oC s ta tes" .
Thiscaptures several kinds o f  indeterminacy: (1) that  thesentence may only be a request at  the surface leve l( "Don' t  you know that  pl&s can ' t  f l y?"
looks l i ke  arequest to in fo rm) ,  (2) that  there is  more than one wayto e f fec t  a "show n ("show n could mean redraw the ent i red i sp lay ,  change i t  s l ight ly  to include a new ob jec t ,  orsimply h igh l ight  an ex is t ing  one),  (3) that  i t  is  notc lear  how many operat ions  are ac tua l ly  being requested(showir~ three objects  could take one, two, or threeac t ions ) .
TherefOre, the in terpreta t ion  uses GenericConcepts to describe the kind o f  events appearing in thesurface form o f  the sentence and makes no ccmmitment tothe number o f  them requested.
The only commitment to"quant i f l ce t ione l "  in format ion  ls  expressed by the Role-ValueMap.
I t s  two po in ters ,  X (point in& to the memberRole o f  nSET#O035) and yea (po int ing  to the ob jec t  o f?
The Value Rest r i c t ion .
STATE, i s  redundant here, sincethe members o f  th i s  par t i cu la r  set were exp l i c i t l yspec i f ied  (and are known to be s ta tes ) .
In other  cases,the informat ion is  more usefu l .
For example, no 1Roleswould be constructed by the parser i f  the sentence were"Are there three s tates?"
;  only one would be constructedin "Show me state S/NP and i t s  two nearest neighbors" .On the other  hand, no Value Rest r i c t ion  would bed i rec t ly  present on Role R1 i f  the noun phrase were jus t"S/NP.
S/AUX, and S/DCL".ee ?
i s  a chained po inter  acing f i r s t  through the memberRole o f  ~SET~O037, then throu6h the act Role o fS-R?QUEST~O038, and f ina l ly  to the o~-ent Role o fSHOWeO035.
I t  is  considered to re fer  to the set o fZRoles expressing the ob jects  o f  a l l  SHOW eventsu l t imate ly  S-REQUESTed, when i t  is  determined exact lyhow many there are to be ( i .e .
when the 1Roles o f36the requested act ) ,  ind icate  that the ultimate set ofthings to be shown, no matter how many particular SHOWevents take place, must be the same as the set ofmembers in the noun phrase DSET (namely, the threestates).As mentioned, semantic interpretation invokes thediscourse expert,  This program looks to a plan that itis hypothesizing its user to be following in order toi n te rpret  ind i rec t  speech acts.
Following \ [1 \ ] ,  thespeech acts REQUEST, INFORM, INFORMREF, and INFORMIF aredefined as producing certain effects by means of theheater's recognition of the speaker's intention toproduce these effects.
Indirect speech act recognitionproceeds by inferring what the user wants the system toth ink is h is /her plan.
P lan-recognit ion involves makinginferences o f  the form, "the user did th i s  act ion inorder to produce that  e f fec t ,  which s/he wanted toenable him/her to do th i s  (next) ac t ion" .Making inferences at the level  o f  "intended planrecogni t ion"  is begun by analyzing the user 's  utteranceas a "surface" speech act (SURFACE-REQUEST or SURFACE-INFORM) indicating what the utterance "looks like".
Byperforming plan-recognit ion inferences whose:p laus ib i l i ty  is  ascertained by using mutual be l ie fs ,  thesystem can, for instance, reason that what looked to bean INFORM of  the user 's  goal is ac tua l ly  a REQUEST toinclude some portion of the ATN into the display.
Thus,the second clause o f  the utterance,  "No; I want to beable to see S/AUX," is analyzed as a REQUEST to INCLUDES/AUX by the fo l lowing chain of plan-recogni t ioninferences:The system believes(1) the user has performed a SURFACE-INFORM o f  h is /hergoal;  thus(2) the user intends for the system to believe that theuser wants to be able to see S/AUX.
Since thisrequires that S/AUX be visible,(3) the user intends for the system to believe that theuser wants the system to plan an action to makeS/AUX visible.
Because the "No" leads to anexpectat ion that the user might want to modify thedisp lay,  the system plans to INCLUDE S/AUX in theexisting disp lay,  rather than DISPLAY S/AUX alone.
(q) Hence, the user intends for the system to believethat user wants the system to INCLUDE S/AUX.
(5) The user has performed a REQUEST to INCLUDE.The system responds by planning that act ion .In addit ion to using Contexts to hold descr ipt ions  o fbe l ie fs  and wants, the p lan-recognit ion process makesextensive use of RoleValueMaps and ~SETs (see Figure 4).Plan-recognit ion inferences proceed using Just thec lause- leve l  structur~ and pay no a t tent ion  to thepar t i cu la rs  of the noun phrase in terpreta t ions .
Thesystem creates new BSETs for intermediate sets andequates them to previous ones by RoleValueMaps, as, forexample, when i t  decides to do a SHOW whose object  is tobe the same as whatever was to be visible.
At the endof plan-recognltion the system may need to trace throughthe constructed RoleValuaMaps to find all setsequivalent to a given one.
For instance, when i tdetermines that it needs to know which set of things todisp lay ,  highlight, or include, it treats the equatedRoleValueMaps as a set of rewrite rules, traces back tothe original noun phrase DSET, and then tries to findsthe referent of that DSET a.DSET#OO37 are f ina l ly  spec i f ied) .
Thus, i f  there areu l t imate ly  two SHOWs, one o f  one state and the other  o ftwo, the Y pointer implicitly re fers  to the set of  a l lthree states shown.e The system only finds referents when necessary.
Thisdepends on the user's speech acts and the system's needsin understanding and complying vith them.
Thus, it isF ina l ly ,  not only are parse st ructures  and semanticin terpreta t ions  represented in KLONE, but the data base- -  the ATN being discussed - -  is  as well  (see Figure 2above).
Further,  descr ipt ions of how to d isp lay theATN, and general descr ipt ions  o f  coordinate mappings andother d isplay information are represented too.
Commandsto the display expert are expressed as Conceptsinvolv ing actions l i ke  SHOW, CENTER, etc.
whose"arguments" are descr ipt ions  o f  desired shapes, etc .Derivations of particular display forms from genericdescr ip t ions ,  or from mapping changes, are carr ied outby the attached procedure mechanism.
F ina l ly ,  once thepar t i cu la r  shapes are decided upon, drawing is achievedby invoking "how to draw" procedures attached to d isp layform Concepts.
Once again, the taxone~mic nature of thestructured inheritance net alows domain structure to beexpressed in a natural  and useful way.AcknowledgementsThe prototype natural  language system was the resu l t  o fa tremendous e f fo r t  by several people: Rusty Bobrow wasresponsible for the parser and syntactic taxonomy,although his support in design and implementation of\[CLONE was as extensive and as important;  Phil Cohendesigned and bu i l t  the discourse/speech act componentthat  does a l l  of  the inference in the system; JackKlovstad did the graphics, bui ld ing on an ex is t ingsystem (AIPS) bu i l t  by Norton Greenfeld, Martin Yonke,Eugene C iccare l l i ,  and Frank Zdybel.
F ina l ly ,  B i l lWoods bu i l t  a pseudo-English input parser that  allowedus to eas i ly  bui ld complex KLONE structures with aminimum of  e f fo r t .
Many thanks to Phil Cohen, CandyStdner, and Bonnie Webber for  help with th is  paper.This research was supported by the Advanced ResearchProJects Agency of  the Department o f  Defense and wasmonitored by ONR under Contract No.
N0001~-77-C-0378.CI\]3?\[2\]\ [3\ ]References\[q\]?
C5 \ ]Al len,  James F. A Plan-baaed Approach to Speech ActRecognition.
Technical Report No.
131/79.
Toronto,Ontario: Dept.
of  Computer Science, Univers i ty  ofToronto, February 1979.Bobrow, R. J.
The RUB System.
In Research inNatural Language Understanding: Quarter ly ProgressReport No.
3 (1 March 1978 to 31 May 1978).
BBNReport No.
3878.
Cambridge, HA: Bolt  Beranek andNewman Inc .
,  July 1978.Braehman, R. J.
A St ructura l  Paradigm forRepresenting Knowledge.
Ph.D. D isser ta t ion ,Harvard Un ivers i ty ,  Cambridge, HA, Hay 1977.
AlsoBBN Report No.
3605.
Cambridge, HA: Bolt Beranekand Newman Inc .
,  May 1978.Burton, R. R. Semantic Grammar: An EngineeringTechnique for Constructing Natural LanguageUnderstanding Systems.
BBN Report No.
3q53.Cambridge, MA: Bolt  Boranek and Newman Inc .
,December, 1976.Woods, W. A., Kaplan, R. M., and Nash-Webber, B. TheLunar Sciences Natural Language Information System:Final  Report.
BBN Report No.
2378.
Cambridge, MA:Bolt Beranek and Newman Inc .
,  1972.intended that a naming speech act l i ke  "Cal l  that  thecomplement network" w i l l  not cause a search for  there ferent  o f  "the complement network".
