DIKSIGN FOR I)IALOGUE COMPREHENSIONWilliam C. MannUSC Information Sciences InstituteMarina del Rey, CAApril, 1979This paper describes aspects of the design of a dialoguecomprehension system, DCS, currently being Implemented.
Itconcent ra tes  on a few design innovat ions rather than thedescr ip t ion  of the who le  system.
The three areas ofinnovation discussed are:1.
The re lat ion of the DCS design to Speech Act theoryand Dialogue Game theory,Z.
Design assumpt ions about how to ident i fy  the "best"interpretat ion among several alternatives, and amethod, called Preeminence Scheduling, fo rimplement ing those assumptions,3.
A now control  structure, tlearsay-3, that extendsthe control  structure of l learsay-l\[ and makesPreeminence Scheduling fa i r l y  straightforward.I.
Dialogue Games, Speech Acts and DCS -- Examinat ionof actua l  human dia logue reveals s t ructure  xtend ing over?
~overal tu rns  and corresponding to part lcular  issues that  theparticipants raise and resolve.
Our past work  on dialogue hasled to an account  of this structure,  Dialogue Game theoryfLor in  & Moore 1978; Moore, l ,evlu & Mann 1977\].
Thistheory  claims that dialogues (and other language uses aswe l l )  are comprehensible only because the participants aremaking avai lable to each other the knowledge of  the goalsthey  are pursuing, at ~he p~omcnt, Patterns of these goalsrecur ,  represent ing  language conventions: their  theoret icalrepresentat ions  are cal led Dialogue Games.If  a speaker  employs a part icular  Dialogue Game, thatfact  must  be recognized by the hearer if  the speaker is toach ieve  the desired effect.
In other words, Dialogue Gamerecogn i t ion  is an essential  part of dialogue comprehension.Invok ing  a game is an act, and terminat ing the ongoing useof a game is also an act.Dialogue game theory has recent ly  boon extended\ [Mann 1079\]  in a way makes these game-related actsexpl ic i t  Acts of  Bidding a game, Accepting a bid, and Biddingte rminat ion  are fo rmal ly  defined as speech acts, comparableto o thers  In speech act theory.
So, for example, in thed ia logue  f ragment  below,Ct "Morn, l 'm hungry .
"M." "Did you do a good Job on your  Geographyhomework?
"the f i r s t  tu rn  bids a game called the Permission Seekinggame,  and the second turn  refuses that bid and bids theIn fo rmat ion  5cak ing  game.DCS is designed to recognize people's use of d ia logue/~.ames in transcripts.
For each utterance, it bui lds ah ie rarch la l  s t ruc ture  represent ing how the utteranceper fo rms certa in acts, the goals that the acts serve, end thngoal s t ructure  that makes the combination of acts coherent.
(The data structure holding this information is describedho low in the discussion of l learsay-3.)II.
P reeminence Schedul ing --  It seems inevi tab le  thatany  system capable of forming the "correct" interpretat ion ofmost  natura l  langua~,e usage w i l l  usua l ly  be able to f indsevera l  o ther  interpretat ions,  g iven enough opportunity.
Itis also inev i tab le  that  choices bo made, imp l i c i t l y  orexp l i c i t l y ,  among interpretat ions.
The choices w i l lcorrespond to some Internal  notion of qual i ty ,  also possiblyimp l i c i t .
The notion of qua l i ty  may vary.
but the necessityof makin/' ,  such  choices does not rest on the part icu lar  not ionof qua l i ty  we  use.
Clearly, it is also important o avoidchoos ing  a s ing le  interpretat ion when there are severalnear ly  equa l ly  a t t ract ive  ones.What  methods do we have for mak ing  such choices?Consider three approaches.I .
First-f ind..
The f i rst  Interpretat ion discoveredwh ich  satisfies wel l - formcdness  i  chosen.
Thee f fect iveness  of f i r s t - f ind  depends on hav ingwel l - in fo rmed,  selective processes at every choicepoint,  and is only reasonable i f  one's expectationsabout what  might be said are very good.
Even then,th i s  method w i l l  select incorrect interpretat ions.Z.
Bounded search and ranked choice.
Interpretat ionsare generated by a bounded-effort  search, each isassigned an individual quality .score of some sort,and the best is chosen.
Whi le  th is  w i l l  not missgood but  unexpected interpretat ions missed byf i r s t - f ind ,  i t  is wrong in at least two ways:  a) itse lects an interpretat ion (and discards others) whenthe  qua l i ty  d i f ference between interpretat ions iinsignificant, and b) it expends unnecessaryresources mak ing  absolute qua l i ty  Judgmentswhere  on ly  re lat ive Judgments are needed.
Thesedefects uggest  an lmprovemenh3.
P reeminence selection= perform a bounded-effortsearch for interpretat ions,  and then select as beatthe one ( i f  any) hav ing  a certain threshold amountof demonstrable  preferabi l i ty  over its competitors.The key  to corre::t choice is determinat ion that sucha thresho ld  d i f ference in qua l i ty  exists.
DCS isdesigned to ident i fy  preeminent  interpretat ions.Consider the in format ion content in the fact that thebest two  interpretat ions  have a qua l i ty  di f ference xceedinga f i xed  threshold.
This fact is suf f ic ient  to choose anin terpreta t ion ,  and yet  it carr ies less in format ion than iscar r ied  in a set of qua l i ty  scores for the same set ofin terpretat ions .
C~omputaUonal ef f ic iencies are avai lablebecause the work  of creat ing the excess informat ion can beavoided by proper design.83Given s tentative quality scoring of one's alternatives,several kinds of computations can be avoided.
For thehighest-ranked interpretation, it is pointless to performcomputations whose only effect is to confirm or support heinterpretation, (even thongh we expect that for correctinterpretat ions the ways to show confirmation wil l  benumerous),  since these wil l  only drive its score higher.For interpretations wi th  inferior ranks, it is l ikewisepointless to perform computations that refute them(although we expect hat refutations of poor interpretationswi l l  be numerous), since these wil l  only drive their scoreslower.
Neither of these is relevant to demonstratingpreeminence.Given effect ive controls, computation can concentrateon refut ing good interpretation?
and supporting weak ones.
(Of" course, such computations wil l  sometimes move 8 newinterpretat ion i to the role of highe?t-renked.
They mayalso destroy an eppsrent preeminence.)
If the gap in qualityrat ing between the highest ranked interpretation end thenext  one rams/no significant, then proem/nonce has beendemonstrated.Further efficlencles are possible provided that themaximum quality r ?t ing improvement front untr/ed supportcomputation?
can be predicted, since it is then posstblo tof ind case?
for wh ich  the m?ximum support of ?
low-rankedinterpretat ion would not eliminate an existing preeminence.Similar eff iclencies can arise from predicting the max/mumloss 6f qual ity available from untr/ed refuter/one.
Thisapproach ls being implemented in DCS,IIL Control Structure --  ?
new AI programmingenvi ronment  called Hearsey-3 is being implemented at ISI foruse in development of several systems.
It is an augmentationand major revision of some of the control and data structureideas found in He?rsey-l l  \[Lesser & Erman 19773, but it isindependent of the speech-understandlng task.
Hecruy-3retains lnterprecess communicetion by means of global"blackboards," end it represents its process knowledge inmany specialized "knowledge source" (KS) processes, whichnominate themselves at appropriate t/rues bY looking at theblackboard, and then are opportunistically scheduled forexecution.
Blackbcerds are divided into "levels" thattypical ly contain distinct kinds of state knowledge, thedist inct ions being ~jed as a gross f i lter on which future KScomputation?
ere considered.Hearsay-3 rets i , s  the idea of a domain-knowledgeblackboard (BB), and it adds a knowledge source schedulingblackboard (SBB) as well.
Items on the SBB are opportunitiesto exercise particular scheduling speclslists celledSchedulln~ Knowledge Sources (SKS).The SBB Is ?n ideal data structure For implementin~Prominence  scheduling.
In DCS the SBB has four levels,called Refutation, Support, Evaluation andOrdinary-consequence.
These correspond to a factoring ofthe domain K5 into four groups according to their effects.Knowledge sources in each of these groups nominatathemselves onto a different level of the SBB.
Theschedul ing-knowledge sources (SKS) perform preeminenceschedul ing (when a suitable range of alternatives lsavailable) by selecting available Refutation levelopportunit ies for the highest-ranked interpretation andSupport level opportunities for inferior ones.
(The SBB andSKS Features of HearMy-3 ?re only two of its manyinnovation?
.
)The DCS B8 has 6 levels, named Text.
Word-sense?,Syntax,  Proposition?, Speech-acts ?nd Goals.
Goals and goalstructures,  wh ich  ?re required in any successful analysis,only arise as explanations of speech acts.
The KS used forder iv ing speech acts from utterances ?re seperete from thoseder iv ing goals from speech acts.
The hierarchic datas t ructure  representing an interpretation of ?n utteranceconsists of units at vsrtou~ level?
on the He?rsey-3blackboard.USING DCSThese Innovations and sever?l others wil l  betested in DCS in ?ttempts to comprehend human dialogue~athered from non-laboratory situ?tton?.
(One of these L5Apollo astronaut o ground communication.)
Transertpis ofactual interpersonal dialogue?
?re p?rtlcularly advantageousas s tudy materiel, because they show the effects of ongoin~communicat ion ?
d because they are free of the bieses andnar row v iew?
inev/table in made-up example?.ACKNOWLEDGMENTSThe work  reported here was supported by NSF GrantMCS-70-07332.R EFER ENCESLessor, V. R., and L. D. Ermsn, "A Retrospective View of theHEARSAY-II Architecture," Fl\[t~ Int~n~lovt~ JointCon \[trtnct on Arti \[icl~ Intctlif~ct.
Cambridge, MA,1977.Lenin, J.
A., and J.
A. Moore, "Dialogue GamoszMeta-communication Structures for Natural LanguageInteraction," Coenitive Science.
1,4, 1978.Moore, J.
A., J.
A. Levin, ?nd W. C. Mann, "A Goal-orientedModel of Human INalot~ue," flmerlcan Journal ofComputational Lin?uistics.
microfiche #67, 1977.Mann, W. C., "Dialogue Games," in MODELS OF pI4qLOGUE.K.
Hlntlkka, st ~!
(ads.)
North Holland Press, 1979.84
