ON THE EXISTENCE OF PRIMITIVE MEANING UNITSSharon C. SalveterComputer Science DepartmentSUNY Stony BrookStony Brook, N.Y. 11794ABSTRACTKnowledge representation schemes are either based ona set of primitives or not.
The decision of whetheror not to have a primitive-based scheme is crucialsince it affects the knowledge that is stored and howthat knowledge may be processed.
We suggest that aknowledge representation scheme may not initially haveprimitives, but may evolve into a prlmltive-basedscheme by inferring a set of primitive meaning unitsbased on previous experience.
We describe a programthat infers its own primitive set and discuss how theinferred primitives may affect the organization ofexisting information and the subsequent incorporationof new information.i.
DECIDING HOW TO REPRESENT KNOWLEDGEA crucial decision in the design of a knowledge repre-sentation is whether to base it on primitives.
A prim-itive-based scheme postulates a pre-defined set of mean-ing structures, combination rules and procedures.
Theprimitives may combine according to the rules into morecomplex representational structures, the proceduresinterpret what those structures mean.
A primltive-freescheme, on the other hand, does not build complex struc-tures from standard building blocks; instead, informa-tion is gathered from any available source, such asinput and information in previously built meaningstructures.A hybrid approach postulates a small set of pro-definedmeaning units that may be used if applicable and con-venient, but is not limited to those units.
Such arepresentation scheme is not truly prlmitive-basedsince the word "primitive" implies a complete set ofpre-deflned meaning units that are the onl 7 ones avail-able for construction.
However, we will call this hy-brid approach a primitive-based scheme, since it doespostulate some pro-defined meaning units that are usedin the same manner as primitives.2.
WHAT IS A PRIMITIVE?All representation systems must have primitives of somesort, and we can see different types of primitives atdifferent levels.
Some primitives are purely structuraland have little inherent associated semantics.
That is,the primitives are at such a low level that there areno semantics pre-deflned for the primitives other thanhow they may combine.
We call these primitives struc-tural primitives.
On the other hand, semantic primi-tives have both structural and semantic components.The structures are defined on a higher level and comewith pre-attached procedures (their semantics) thatindicate what they "mean," that is, how they are to bemeaningfully processed.
What makes primitives semanticis this association of procedures with structures, sincethe procedures operating on the structures give themmeaning.
In a primitive-based scheme, we design botha set of structures and their semantics to describe aspecific environment.There are two problems with pre-defining primitives.First, the choice of primitives may be structurallyinadequate.
That is, they may limit what can be repre-sented.
For example, if we have a set of rectilinearprimitives, it is difficult to represent objects in asphere world.
The second problem may arise even if wehave a structurally adequate set of primitives.
I_n thiscase the primitives may be defined on too low a levelto be useful.
For example, we may define atoms as ourprimitives and specify how atoms interact as theirsemantics.
Now we may adequately describe a rubber ballstructurally, hut we will have great difficulty describ-ing the action of a rolling ball.
We would like a setof semantic primitives at a level both structurally andsemantically appropriate to the world we are describing.3.
INFERRING AN APPROPRIATE PRIMITIVE SETSchank \[1972\] has proposed a powerful primitive-basedknowledge representation scheme called conceptualdependency.
Several natural language understandingprograms have been written that use conceptual depend-ency as their underlying method of knowledge represen-tation.
These programs are among the most successfulat natural language understanding.
Although Schankdoes not claim that his primitives constitute the onlypossible set, he does claim that some set of primitivesis necessary in a general knowledge representationscheme.Our claim is that any advanced, sophisticated or richmemory is likely to be decomposable into primitives,since they seem to be a reasonable and efficient methodfor storing knowledge.
However, this set of after-the-fact primitives need not be pre-defined or innate toa representation scheme; the primitives may be learnedand therefore vary depending on early experiences.We really have two problems: inferring from earlyexperiences a set of structural primitives at an appro-priate descriptive level and learning the semantics toassociate with these structural primitives.
In thispaper we shall only address the first problem.
Eventhough we will not address the semantics attachmenttask, we will describe a method that yields the minimalstructural units with which we will want to associatesemantics.
We feel that since the inferred structuralprimitives will be appropriate for describing a par-titular environment, they will have appropriate seman-tics and that unlike pro-defined primitives, theselearned primitives are guaranteed to be at the appro-priate level for a given descriptive task.
Identify-ing the structural primitives is the first step (prob-ably a parallel step) in identifylng semantic primi-tives, which are composed of structural units andassociated procedures that 81ve the structures meaning.This thesis developed while investigating learningstrategies.
Moran \[Salveter 1979\] is a program thatlearns frame-like structures that represent verb mean-ings.
We chose a simple representative frame-likeknowledge representation for Moran to learn.
We chosea primitive-free scheme in order not to determine thelevel of detail at which the world must be described.As Moran learned, its knowledge base, the verb world,evolved from nothing to a rich interconnection of framestructures that represent various senses of differentroot verbs.
When the verb world was "rich enough" (aheuristic decision), Moran detected substructures,which we call building blocks, that were frequentlyused in the representations of many verb senses acrossroot verb boundaries.
These building blocks can beused as after-the-fact primitives.
The knowledgerepresentation scheme thus evolves from a primitive-free state to a hybrid state.
Importantly, the build-ing blocks are at the level of description appropriate13Co how the world was described to Moran.
Now Mor~ mayreorganize the interconnected frames that  make up theverb world with respect  co the bui ld ing blocks.
Thisreorganizaclon renulcs in a uniform identification of theco - -a l le les  and differences of  the various meaningsof different root: verbs.
As l enrning continues the newknowledge incorporated into the verb world will also bescored, as ,-~ch as possible, with respect to the build-ins blocks; when processing subsequent input, Moranfirst tries to use a on~inat lon of the building blocksto represent the meaning of each new situation iCencoiJ~Cer8 ?A sac of bui lding blocks, once in fer red ,  need noc bef ixed forever;  the search for more bui ld ing blocks maycontinue as the knowledge base becomes r icher .
Adifferent, "better," set of bui ld ing blocks may be in-ferred later from the richer knowledge and all knowledgereorganized with respect to them.
If we can assume thatinitial inputs are representaClve of future inputs,subsequent processing will approach that of primitive-based systems.4.
AN OVERVIEW OF MORANMoran is able to "view" a world that is a room; theroom Contains people and objects ,  Moran has pre-def inedknowledge of the contents of the room.
For exan~le, i tknows chac lamps, cables and chairs are all types offurniture, Figaro is a male, Ristin is a female, Eistinand Figaro are human.
As input to a learning crlal,Moran is presented with:i) a snapshot of the room Just before an actionoct%tEn2) a snapshot o f  tbe room Just  a f te r  the ac t ion  iscompleted end3) a parsed sentence thac descr ibes the action thacoccured in the two-snapshot sequence.The learning task is to associate a frame-like structure,cal led a Conceptual Meaning Structure (CMS), with eachroot verb it enco,mcers.
A CMS is a directed acyclicgraph that represents the types of entities chat partic-ipate in an action and the changes the entities undergoduring the action.The ~s  are organized so thac the similarities amongvarious senses of a given root verb are expllcicly rep-resented b 7 sharing nodes in a graph.
A CMS is organ-i zed  into two par~s: an ar~,-~-cs graph and an effectsgraph.
The arguments graph stores cases and case slotrestrictions, the effects graph stores a description ofwhat happens co the entities described in the arg,,m~,~Csgraph when an action "takes place.
"A sin~llfled example of a possible ~S for the verb"throw" is shown in Figure i.
Sense i, composed of argu-ment and e f fec t  nodes label led A, W and X can represent'~kr 7 throws the ba l l . "
Ic show thac during sense 1 ofthe actlan "throw," a human agent remains at a locationwhile a physical object changes location from where theAgent is to another location.
The Agent changes frombeing in a stare of physical contact with the Object conot being in physical contact with ic.
Sense 2 is com-posed of nodes labelled A, B, W and Y; It might repre-sent "Figaro throws the ball co E-Istin."
Sense 3, com-posed of nodes label led A, B, C, W, X and Z, could rep-resent  "Sharon threw the terminal  at Raphael.
"Mor~- infers a CMS for each root verb it encotmters.Although similarlt~'es among different senses of thesame root verb are recognized, similarities are noCrecognized across C~S boundaries; true synonyms mighthave id~- t l ca l  graphs, but Moran would have no knowledgearguments~ 1,2,3.TECT PhysobJA: Location|C2 Location2,3B: !
PREP  Prespos i t i~I~O~ ~,,m.
|c: Ic3 Locat ion  JW:X: \[ AGENT PHYSCONT OBJECT - ->  null Ief fec ts1,2,3I AGENT AT Cl - ->  AGENT AT C1 IOBJECT AT Cl ~> OBJECT AT C2I i ,3  ,~ 2I I~DOBJ AT C2 - - ->  INDO~ AT C2Y: AGENT PHYSCONT OBJECT - - ->  INDOBJ PHYSCONT OBJECTFigure 1.14of the similarity.
Similarities among verbs that areclose in meaning, but not synonyms, are not represented;the fact that "move" and "throw" are related is not ob-vious to Moran.5.
PRELIMINARY RESULTSA primitive meaning unit, or building block, should beuseful for describing a large number of different mean-ings.
Moran attempts to identify those structures thathave been useful descriptors.
At a certain point in thelearning process, currently arbitrarily chosen by theh.m;un trainer, Moran looks for building blocks that havebeen used to describe a number of different root verbs.This search for building blocks crosses CMS boundariesand occurs only when memory is rich enough for someglobal decisions to be made.Moran was presented with twenty senses of four rootverbs: move, throw, carry and buy.
Moran chose thefollowing effects as building blocks:i) Agent (h,,~--) AT Casel (location)Agent (human) AT Casel (location)* a human agent remains at a location *2) Agent (human) AT Casel (location)$Agent (human) AT Case2 (location)* a human agent changes location *3) Object (physicalobj) AT Casel (location)1,Object (physicalobj) AT Case2 (location)* a physical object changes location *4) Agent (human) PHYSICALCONTACT Object (physlcalobJ)Agent (human) PHYSICALCONTACT Object (physicalobJ)* a human agent remains in physical con=at=with a physical object *Since Moran has only been presented with a small numberof verbs of movement, it is not surprising that thebuilding blocks it chooses describe Agents and Objectsmoving about the environmen= and their interaction witheach other.
A possible criticism is that the chosenbuilding blocks are artifacts of the particular descrlp-tions that were given to Moran.
We feel this is anadvantage rather than a drawback, since Moran must as-sume that the world is described to it on a level thatwill be appropriate for subsequent processing.In Schank's conceptual dependency scheme, verbs of move-ment are often described with PTRANS and PROPEL.
~t isinteresting that some of the building blocks Moran in-ferred seem to be subparts of the structures of PTRANSand PROPEL.
For example, the conceptual dependency for"X throw Z at Y" is:) Y | D X~--) PROPEL +.S- Z ( J!
(Xwhere X and Y are b,,m"ns and Z is a physical object.see the object, Z, changing from the location of X tothat of Y.
Thus, the conceptual dependency subpart:We) <o z <D Jappears to be approximated by building block ~3 wherethe Object changes location.
Moran would recoEnizethat the location change is from the location of theAgent to the location of the indirect object by theinteraction of building block #3 with other buildlngblocks and effects that participate in the actiondescription.Similarly, the conceptual dependency for "X move Z toW" is :z<~)ioc(w)where X and Z have the same restrictions as above andW is a location.
Again we see an object changing loca-tion; a co,~-on occuzence in movement and a buildingblock Moran identified.6.
CONCLUDING REMARKSWe are currently modifying Moran so that the identifiedbuilding blocks are used to process subsequent input.That is, as new situations are encountered, Moran willtry to describe them as much as possible in terms ofthe building blocks.
It will be interesting to seehow these descriptions differ from the ones Moran wouldhave constructed if the building blocks had not beenavailable.
We shall also investigate how the existenceof the building blocks affects processing time.As a cognitive model, inferred primitives may accountfor the effects of "bad teaching," that is, an unfor-tunate sequence of examples of a new concept.
If ex-amples are so disparate that few building blocks exist,or so unrepresentative that the derived building blocksare useless for future inputs, then the after-the-factprimitives will impede efficient representation.
Theknowledge organization will not tie together what wehave experienced in the past or predict that we willexperience in the future.
Although the learning pro-gram could infer more useful building blocks at a latertimeg that process is expensive, time-consuming and maybe unable to replace information lost because of poorbuilding blocks chosen earlier.
In general, however,we must assume that our world is described at a levelappropriate to how we must process it.
If that is thecase, then inferring a set of primitives is an advanta-geous strateEy.REFERENCES\[Salveter 1979\] Inferring conceptual graphs.
Co~nltiveScience, 1979, 3_, 141-166.\[Schank 1972\] Conceptual Dependency: a theory ofnatural language understanding.
CobnitivePsychology, 1972, ~, 552-631.15
