Metaphor  - A Key to Extensible Semant ic  AnalysisJ a ime G. Carbone l lCarnegie-Mellon UniversityPittsburgh, PA 15213Abst ractInterpreting metaphors is an integral and inescapableprocess in human understanding of natural language.
Thispaper discusses a method of analyzing metaphors based onthe existence of a small number of generalized metaphormappings.
Each generalized metaphor contains arecognition network, a basic mapping, additional transfermappings, and an implicit intention component.
It is arguedthat the method reduces metaphor interpretation from areconstruction to a recognition task.
Implications towardsautomating certain aspects of language learning are alsodiscussed, t1.
An Opening ArgumentA dream of many computational inguists is to produce anatural language analyzer that tries its best to processlanguage that "almost but not quite" corresponds to thesystem's grammar, dictionary and semantic knowledgebase.
In addition, some of us envision a language analyzerthat improves its performance with experience.
To theseends, I developed the proiect and integrate algorithm, amethod of inducing possible meanings of unknown wordsfrom context and storing the new information for eventualaddition to the dictionary \[1\].
While useful, this mechanismaddresses only one aspect of the larger problem, accruingcertain classes of word definitions in the dictionary.
In thispaper, I focus on the problem of augmenting the power of asemantic knowledge base used for language analysis bymeans of metaphorical mappings.The pervasiveness of metaphor in every aspect of humancommunication has been convincingly demonstrated byLakoff and Johnson \[4}, Ortony \[6\], Hobbs \[3\] and marlyothers.
However, the creation of a process model toencompass metaphor comprehension has not been ofcentral concern?
From a computational standpoint,metaphor has been viewed as an obstacle, to be tolerated atbest and ignored at worst.
For instance, Wilks \[9\] gives afew rules on how to relax semantic constraints in order for aparser to process a sentence in spite of the metaphorical1This research was sponsored in part by the Defense AdvancedResearch Prelects Agency (DOD).
Order No.
3597, monitored by the AirForce Avionics Laboratory under Contract F33615-78-C-155t.
Theviews and conclusions contained in this document are those of theauthor, and should not be interpreted as rel3resenting the officialpolicies, either expressed or implied, of the Defense Advanced ResearchProjects Agency or the U.S. Government.2Hobbs has made an initial stab at this problem, although h=s centralconcern appears to be ~n characterizing and recognizing metaphors incommonly-encountered utterances.usage of a particular word.
I submit that it is insufficientmerely to tolerate a metaphor.
Understanding themetaphors used in language often proves to be a crucialprocess in establishing complete and accurateinterpretations of linguistic utterances.2.
Recognit ion vs. Reconstruct ion - TheCentral IssueThere appear to be a small number of general metaphors(on the order of fifty) that pervade commonly spokenEnglish.
Many of these were identified and exemplified byLakoff and Johnson \[4\].
For instance: more-is-up.less.is.down and the conduit metaphor - Ideas are objects,words are containers, communication consists of puttingobjects (ideas) into containers (words), sending thecontainers along a conduit (a communications medium.such as speech, telephone lines, newspapers, letters),whereupon the recipient at the other end of the conduitunpackages the objects from their containers (extracts theideas from the words).
Both of these metaphors apply in theexamples discussed below.The computational significance of the existence of a smallset of general metaphors underlies the reasons for mycurrent investigation: The problem of understanding a largeclass of metaphors may be reduced from a reconstruction toa recognition task.
That is, the identification of ametaphorical usage as an instance of one of the generalmetaphorical mappings is a much more tractable processthan reconstructing the conceptual framework from thebottom up each time a new metaphor-instance isencountered.
Each of the general metaphors contains notonly mappings of the form: "X is used to mean Y incontext  Z",  but inference rules to enrich the understandingprocess by taking advantage of the reasons why the writermay have chosen the particular metaphor (rather than adifferent metaphor or a literal rendition).3.
Steps Towards  Codi fy ing Knowledgeof Metaphorst propose to represent each general metaphor in thefollowing manner:A Recoanition Network contains the informationnecessary to decide whether or not a linguisticutterance is an instantiation of the generalmetaphor.
On the first-pass implementation I willuse a simple discrimination etwork.The Basic MaDoinQ establishes those featuresof the literal input that are directly mapped ontoa different meaning by the metaphor.
Thus, Anyupward movement in the more-is-up metaphoris mapped into an increase in some directly17Quantifiable feature of the part of the input thatundergoes the upward movement.The Implicit.intention Comoonent encodes thereasons why this metaphor is typically chosenby a writer or sPeaker.
Part of this informationbecomes an integral portion of the semanticrepresentational of input utterances.
Forinstance, Lakoff identifies many differentmetaphors for love: love-is-a-journey,love-is-war, love-is.madness, love-is-a-patient,love.is-a-physical-force (e.g., gravity,magnetism).
Without belaboring the point, awriter chooses one these metaphors, as afunction of the ideas he wants to convey to thereader.
If the understander is to reconstructthose ideas, he ought to know why the particularmetaphor was ChOSen.
This information isprecisely that which the metaphor conveys thatis absent from a literal expression of the sameconcept.
(E.g.. "John is completely crazy aboutMary" vs. "John loves mary very much".
Theformer implies that John may exhibit impulsiveor uncharacteristic behavior, and that hispresent state of mind may be less permanentthan in the latter case.
Such information oughtto be stored with the love-is-madness metaphorunless the understanding system is sufficientlysophisticated to make these inferences by othermeans.)?
A Transfer Maooino, analogous to Winston'sTransfer Frames \[10\], is a filter that determineswhich additional Darts of the literal input may bemapDed onto the conceptual representation,and establishes exactly the transformation thatthis additional information must undergo.Hence, in "Prices are soaring", we need to usethe basic maDDing of the more-is.up metaphorto understand that prices are increasing, andwe must use the transfer map of the samemetaphor to interpret "soar" ( = rising high andfast) as large increases that are happening fast.For this metaphor, altitude descriptors map intocorresponding Quantit~ descriptors and ratedescriptors remain unchanged.
This informationis part of the transfer maDDing.
In general, thedefault assumption is that all descriptors remainunchanged unless specified otherwise - hence,the frame problem {5\] is circumvented.4.
A G l impse  in to  the  Process  Mode lThe information encoded in the general metaphors must bebrought to bear in the understanding process.
Here, 1 outli,'qthe most direct way to extract maximal utility from thegeneral.metaphor information.
Perhaps a more subtleprocess that integrates metaphor information more closelyw h other conceptual knowledge iS required.
An attempt oimplement this method in the near future will serve as apragmatic measure of its soundness.The general process for applying metaphor-mappingknowledge is the following:181.
Attempt to analyze the input utterance in aliteral, conventional fashion.
If this fails, and thefailure is caused by a semantic cese-constraintviolation, go to the next step.
(Otherwise, thefailure is probably not due to the presence of ametaphor.)2.
Apply the recognition networks of thegeneralized metaphors.
If on e succeeds, thenretrieve all the information stored with thatmetaphorical maDDing and go on to the nextstep.
(Otherwise, we have an unknownmetaphor or a different failure in the originaisemantic interpretation.
Store this case forfuture evaluation by the system builder.)3.
Use the basic maDDing to establish the semanticframework of the input utterance.4.
Use the transfer maDDing to fill the slots of themeaning framework with the entities in theinput, transforming them as specified in thetransfer map.
If any inconsistenc=es arise in themeaning framework, either the wrong metaphorwas chosen, or there is a second metaphor inthe input (or the input is meaningless).5.
Integrate into the semantic framework anyadditional information found in theimplicit-intention component that does notcontradict existing information.6.
Remember this instantiation of the generalmetaphor within the scope of the present dialog(or text).
It is likely that the same metaphor willbe used again with the same transfer mappingspresent but with additional informationconveyed.
(Often one participant in a dialog"picks up" the metaphors used by by the otherparticipant.
Moreover, some metaphors canserve to structure an entire conversation.)5.
Two Examples  Brought  to  L ightLet us see how to apply the metaphor interpretation methodto some newspaper headlines that rely on complexmetaphors.
Consider the following example from the NewYork Times:Speculators  brace  for  a crash in the soar inggold market .Can gold soar?
Can a market soar?
Certainly not by anyliteral interpretation.
A language interpreter could initiate acomplex heuristic search (or simply an exhaustive search) todetermine the most likely ways that "soaring" could modifygold or gold markets.
For instance, one can conceive of aspreading.activation search starting from the semanticnetwork nodes for "gold market" and "soar" (assumingsuch nodes exist in the memory) to determine theminimal.path intersections, much like Quillian originallyproposed {7\].
However, this mindless intersection search isnot only extremely inefficient, but will invariably yield wronganswers.
(E.g., a golcl market ISA market, and a market cansell fireworks that soar through the sky - to suggest a totallyspurious connection.)
A system absolutely requiresknowledge of the mappings in the more-is.ul~ metaphor toestablish the appropriate and only the appropriateconnection.In comparison, consider an application of the generalmechanism described in the previous section to the"soaring gold market" example.
Upon realizing that a literaJinterpretation fails, the system can take the most salientsemantic features of "soaring" and "gold markets" andapply them to the recognition networks of the generaJmetaphors.
Thus, "upward movement" from soaringmatches "up" in the more-is.up metaphor, while "increasein value or volume" of "gold markets" matches the "more"side of the metaphor.
The recognition of our example as aninstance of the general more-is-up metaphor establishes itsbasic meaning.
It is crucial to note that without knowledgethat the concept up (or ascents) may map to more (orincreases), there appears to be no general tractablemechanism for semantic interpretation of our example.The transfer map embellishes the original semanticframework of a gold market whose value is increasing.Namely, "soaring" establishes that the increase is rapid andnot firmly supported.
(A soaring object may come tumblingdown -> rapid increases in value may be followed by equallyrapid decreases).
Some inferences that are true of thingsthat soar can also transfer: If a soaring object tumbles it mayundergo a significant negative state change -> the goldmarket (and those who ride it) may suffer significantneaative state chan.qes.
However, physical states map ontofinancial states.The less-is-down half of the metaphor is, of course, alsouseful in this example, as we saw in the precedingdiscussion.
Moreover.
this half of the metaphor is crucial tounderstand the phrase "bracing for a crash".
This phrasemust pass through the transfer map to make sense in thefinancial gold market world.
In fact.
it passes through veryeasily.
Recalling that physical states map to financial states,"bracing" maps from "preparing for an expected suddenphysical state change" to "preparing for a sudden financialstate change".
"Crash" refers directly to the cause of thenegative physical state change, and it is mapped onto ananalogous cause of the financial state change.More-is-up.
less-is-down is such a ubiquitous metaphor thatthere are probably no specific intentions conveyed by thewriter in his choice of the metaphor (unlike thelove-is-madness metaphor).
The instantiation of thismetaphor should be remembered in interpreting subsequenttext.
For instance, had our example continued:Analysts expect gold prices to hit bottomsoon, but investors may be in for aharrowing ro l ler -coaster  ride.We would have needed the context of: "uP means increaSesin the gold market, and clown means decreases in the samemarket, which can severely affect investors" before wecould hope to understand the "roller-coaster ride" as"unpredictable increases and decreases suffered byspeculators and investors".Consider briefly a Second example:Press Censorship is a barr ier  to f reecommunicat ion.I have used this example before to illustrate the difficulty ininterpreting the meaning of the word "barrier".
A barrier is aphysical object that disenables physical motion through itsLocation (e.g., "The fallen tree is a barrier to traffic").Previously I proposed a semantic relaxation method tounderstand an "information transfer" barrier.
However,there is a more elegant solution based on the conduitmetaphor.
The press is a conduit for communication.
(Ideashave been packaged into words in newspaper articles andmust now be distributed along the mass media conduit.)
Abarrier can be interpreted as a physical blockage of thisconduit thereby disenabling the dissemination of informationas packaged ideas, The benefits of applying the conduitmetaphor is that only the original "physical object" meaningof barrier is required by the understanding system.
Inaddition, the retention of the basic meaning of barrier (ratherthan some vague abstraction thereof) enables a languageunderstander to interpret sentences like "The censorshipbarriers were lifted by the new regime."
Had we relaxed therequirement hat a barrier be a physical object, it would bedifficult to interpret what it means to "lift" an abstractdisenablement entity.
On the other hand, the lifting of aphysical object implies that its function as a disenabler ofphysical transfer no longer applies; therefore, the conduit isagain open, a~nd free communication can proceed.In both our examples the interpretation of a metaphor tounderstand one sentence helped considerably inunaerstanding a subsequent sentence that retered to themetaphorical mapping established earlier.
Hence, thesignificance of metaphor interpretation for understandingcoherent text or dialog can hardly be overestimated,Metaphors often span several sentences and may structurethe entire text around a particular metaphorical mapping (ora more explicit analogy) that helps convey the writer'scentral theme or idea.
A future area of investigation for thiswriter will focus on the use of metaphors and analogy to rootnew ideas on old concepts and thereby convey them in amore natural and comprehensible manner.
If metaphors andanalogies help humans understand new concepts byrelating them to existing knowledge, perhaps metaphors andanalogies should also be instrumental in computer modelsthat strive to interpret new conceptual information.196.
F reez ing  and  Packag ing  MetaphorsWe have seen how the recognition of basic generalmetaphors greatly structures and facilitates theunderstanding process.
However, there are many problemsin understanding metaphors and analogies that we have notyet addressed.
For instance, we have said little aboutexplicit analogies found in text.
I believe the computationalprocess used in understanding analogies to be the same asthat used in understanding metaphors, The difference isone of recognition and universality of acceptance in theunderlying mappings.
That is, an analogy makes the basicmapping explicit (sometimes the additional transfer mapsare also detailed), whereas in a metaphor the mapping mustbe recognized (or reconstructed) by the understander.However, the general metaphor mappings are alreadyknown to the understander - he need only recognize themand instantiate them.
Analogical mappings are usually newmappings, not necessarily known to the understander.Therefore, such mappings must be spelled out (inestablishing the analogy) before they can be used.
If amaDDing is often used as an analogy it may become anaccepted metaphor; the explanatory recluirement isSuppressed if the speaker believes his listener has becomefamiliar with the maDDing.This suggests one method of learning new metaphors.
AmaDDing abstracted from the interpretation of severalanalogies can become packaged into a metaphor definition.The corTesDonding subparts of the analogy will form thetransfer map, if they are consistent across the variousanalogy instances.
The recognition network can be formedby noting the specific semantic features whose presencewas required each time the analogy was stated and thosethat were necessarily refered to after the statement of theanalogy.
The most difficult Dart to learn is the intentionalcomponent.
The understander would need to know or haveinferred the writer's intentions at the time he expressed theanalogy.Two other issues we have not yet addressed are: Not allmetaphors are instantiations of a small set of generalizedmetaphor mappings.
Many metaphors appear to becomefrozen in the language, either packaged into phrases withfixed meaning (e.g., "prices are going through the roof", aninstance of the more-is-up metaphor), or more specializedentities than the generalized mappings, but not as specificas fixed phrases.
I set the former issue aside remarkino thatif a small set of general constructs can account for the bulkof a complex phenomenon, then they merit an in-depthinvestigation.
Other metaphors may simpty be less-oftenencountered mappings.
The latter issue, however, requiresfurther discussion.I propose that typical instantiations of generalizedmetaphors be recognized and remembered as part of themetaphor interpretation process.
These instantiations willserve to grow a hierarchy of often.encounteredmetaphorical mappings from the top down.
That is, typicalspecializations of generalized metaphors are stored in aspecialization hierarchy (similar to a semantic network, withISA inheritance pointers to the generalized concept of whichthey are specializations).
These typical instanceS can in turnspawn more specific instantiations (if encountered withsufficient frequency in the language analysis), and theprocess can continue until until the fixed-phrase level isreached.
Clearly.
growing all possible specializations of ageneralized maDDing is prohibitive in space, and the vastmajority of the specializations thus generated would neverbe encountered in processing language.
The sparseness oftypical instantiations is the key to saving space.
Only thoseinstantiations of more general me.
~ohors that are repeatedlyencountered are assimilated into t, Je hieraruhy.
Moreover,the number or frequency of reclui=ed instances beforeassimilation takes place is a parameter that can be setaccording to the requirements of the system builder (oruser).
In this fashion, commonly-encountered metaphors willbe recognized and understood much faster than moreobscure instantiations of the general metaphors.It is important to note that creating new instantiations ofmore general mappings is a much simpler process thangeneralizing existing concepts.
Therefore, this type ofspecialization-based learning ought to be Quite tractablewith current technology.7.
Wrapp ing  UpThe ideas described in this paper have not yet beenimplemented in a functioning computer system.
I hope tostart incorpor,3ting them into the POLITICS parser \[2\], whichis modelled after Riesbeck's rule.based ELI \[8\].The philosophy underlying this work is that ComputationalLinguistics and Artificial Intelligence can take full advantageof - not merely tolerate or circumvent - metaphors usedextensively in natural language, in case the reader is still indoubt about the necessity to analyze metaphor as anintegral Dart of any comprehensive natural language system,I point out that that there are over 100 metaphors in theabove text, not counting the examples.
To illustrate furtherthe ubiquity of metaphor and the difficulty we sometimeshave in realizing its presence, I note that each sectionheader and the title of this PaDer contain undeniablemetaphors.8.
References1.
Carbonell, J. G., "Towards a Self.Extending Parser,"Proceedings of the 17th Meeting of the Associationfor Computational Linguistics.
1979, PD- 3-7.2.
Carbonell, J.G., "POLITICS: An Experiment inSubjective Understanding and IntegratedReasoning," in Inside Computer Understanding:Five Programs Plus Miniatures, R. C. Schank andC.
K. RiesPeck, ecls., New Jersey: Erlbaum, 1980.3.
Hobbs, J.R., "Metaphor, Metaphor Schemata, andSelective Inference," Tech.
report 204, SRiInternational, 1979.4.
Lakoff, G. and Johnson, M., Metaphors We Live By.Chicago University Press, 1980.5.
McCarthy, J. and Hayes, P.J., "Some PhilosophicalProblems from Artificial Intelligence," in MachineIntelligence 6, Meltzer and Michie, eds., EdinburghUniversity Press, 1969.6.
Ortony, A., "Metaphor," in Theoretical Issues inReading Comprehension, R. Spire et aL eds.,Hillsdale, NJ: Erlbaum, 1980.7.
Ouillian, M.R., "Semantic Memory," in SemanticInformation Processing.
Minsky, M., ed., MIT Press,1968.8.
Riesbeck, C. and Schank, R. C., "Comprehension byComputer: Expectation-Based Analysis of Sentencesin Context," Tech.
report78, Computer ScienceDepartment, Yale University, 1976.209,10.Wilks.
Y., "Knowledge Structures and LanguageBoundaries," Proceedings of the Fifth /nternationalJoint Conference on Artificial/ntel/igence.
1977, pp.151-157.Winston, P., "Learning by Creating and JustifyingTransfer Frames," Tech.
report AIM-520, AILaboratory.
M.I.T., Jan. 1978.21
