The Parameters of Conversational StyleDeborah TannenGeorgetown UniversityThere are several dimensions along which verbalizationresponds to context, resulting in individual and socialdifferences in conversational style.
Style, as I usethe term, is not something extra added on, l ike decora-tion.
Anything that is said must be said in some way;co-occurrence expectations of that "way" constitutestyle.
The dimensions of style I wi l l  discuss are:I. Fixity vs. novelty2.
Cohesiveness vs. expressiveness3.
Focus on content vs. interpersonal involvement.Fixity vs. noveltyAny utterance or sequence must be identified (r ightly orwrongly, in terms of interlocuter's intentions) with arecognizable frame, as i t  conforms more or less to afamiliar pattern.
Every utterance and interaction isformulaic, or conventionalized, to some degree.
Thereis a continuum of formulaicness from utterly fixedstrings of words (situational formulas: "Happy birth-day," "Welcome home," "Gezundheit") and strings ofevents (r ituals),  to new ideas and acts put together ina new way.
Of course, the lat ter  does not exist exceptas an idealization.
Even the most novel utterance is tosome extent formulaic, as i t  must use familiar words(witness the absurdity of Humpty Dumpty's assertion thatwhen he uses a word i t  means whatever he wants i t  tomean, and notice that he chooses to exercise this l i -cense with only one word); syntax (again Lewis Carrollis instructive: the "comprehensibility" of Jabberwocky);intonation; coherence principles (cf Alton Becker); andcontent (Mills' "vocabularies of motives," e.g.).
Allthese are limited by social convention.
Familiaritywith the patterns is necessary for the signalling ofmeaning both as prescribed and agreed upon, and as cuedby departure from the pattern (cf Hymes).For example, a situational formula is a handy way tosignal familiar meaning, but i f  the formula is not knownthe meaning may be lost entirely,  as when a Greek saysto an American cook, "Health to your hands."
I f  mean-ing is not entirely lost, at least a level of resonanceis lost, when reference is implicit to a fixed patternwhich is unfamiliar to the interlocutor.
For example,when l iving in Greece and discussing the merits of buy-ing an icebox with a Greek Friend, I asked, "Doesn't theiceman cometh?"
After giggling alone in the face of hispuzzled look, I ended up feeling I hadn't communicatedat a l l .
Indeed I hadn't.Cohesiveness vs. expressivenessThis is the basic l inguistic concept of markedness andis in a sense another facet of the above distinction.What is prescribed by the pattern for a given context,and what is furnished by the speaker for this instance?To what extent is language being used to signal "busi-ness as usual," as opposed to signalling, "Hey, look atthis!"
This distinction shows up on every level ofverbalization too: lexical choice, pitch and amplitude,prosody, content, genre, and so on.
For example, i fsomeone uses an expletive, is this a sign of intenseanger or is i t  her/his usual way of talking?
I f  theyreveal a personal experience or feeling, is that evi-dence that you are a special friend, or do they talkthat way to everybody?
Is overlap a way of trying totake the floor away from you or is i t  their way ofshowing interest in what you're saying?
Of course, waysof signalling special meaning -- expressiveness -- arealso prescribed by cultural convention, as the work ofJohn Gumperz shows.
The need to distinguish betweenindividual and social differences is thus intertwinedwith the need to distinguish between cohesive and ex-pressive intentions.
One more example wil l  be presented,based on spontaneous conversation taped during Thanks- ?giving dinner, among native speakers of English fromdifferent ethnic and geographic backgrounds.In responding to stories and comments told by speakersfrom Los Angeles of Anglican/Irish background, speakersof New York Jewish background often uttered paralinguis-t ica l ly  gross sounds and phrases ("WHAT!?
.... How INTer-esting!
.
.
.
.
You're KIDding!
....
Ewwwwww!").
In this con-text, these "exaggerated" responses had the effect ofstopping conversational flow.
In contrast, when similarresponses were uttered while listening to stories andcomments by speakers of similar background, they had theeffect of greasing the conversational wheels, encourag-ing conversation.
Based on the rhythm and content ofthe speakers' talk, as well as their discussion duringplayback ( i .e.
listening to the tape afterwards), Icould hypothesize that for the New Yorkers such "ex-pressive" responses are considered business as usual; anenthusiasm constraint is operating, whereby a certainamount of expressiveness is expected to show interest.I t  is a cohesive device, a conventionally accepted wayof having conversation.
In contrast, such responseswere unexpected to the Californians and therefore weretaken by them to signal, "Hold i t !
There's somethingwrong here."
Consequently, they stopped and waited tofind out what was wrong.
Of course such differenceshave interesting implications for the ongoing interac-tion, but what is at issue here is the contrast betweenthe cohesive and expressive use of the feature.Focus on content vs. interpersonal involvementAny utterance is at the same time a statementof content(Bateson's 'message') and a statement about the rela-tionship between interlocutors ('metamessage').
Inother words, there is what I am saying, but also what i tmeans that I am saying this in this way to this personat this time.
In interaction, talk can recognize, moreor less expl ic i t ly  and more or less emphatically (theseare different), the involvement between interlocutors.I t  has been suggested that the notion that meaning canstand alone, that only content is going on, is associa-ted with l iteracy, with printed text.
But certainlyrelative focus on content or on interpersonal involve-ment can be found in either written or spoken Form.
Isuspect, for example, that one of the reasons many peoplefind interaction at scholarly conferences d i f f i cu l t  andstressful is the conventional recognition of only thecontent level, whereas in fact there is a lot  of involve-merit among people and between the people and the content.Whereas the asking of a question following a paper isconventionally a matter of exchange of information, infact i t  is also a matter of presentation of self, asGoffman has demonstrated for al l  forms of behavior.A reverse, phenomenon has been articulated by Gall Drey-fuss.
The reason many people feel uncomfortable, i f  notscornful, about encounter group talk and "psychobabble"is that i t  makes expl ic i t  information about relation-ships which people are used to signalling on the metalevel.Relative focus on content gives rise to what Kay (1977)calls "autonomous" language, wherein maximal meaning isencoded lexical ly,  as opposed to signalling i t  throughuse of paralinguistic and nonlinguistic channels, andwherein maximal background information is furnished, asopposed to assuming i t  is already known as a consequenceof sharedexperience.
Of course this is an idealizationas well, as no meaning at all  could be communicated i f39there were no common experience, as Fillmore (197g)amply demonstrates.
It ~s crucial, then, to know theoperative conventions.
As much of my own early workshows, a hint {i.e.
indirect communication) can be miss-ed if a listener is unaware that the speaker defines thecontext as one in which hints are appropriate.
What isintended as relatively direct communication can be ta-ken to mean f r more, or simply other, than what ismeanS if the listener is unaware that the speaker de-fines the context as one'in which hints are inappropri-ate.
A common example seems to be communication betweenintimates in which one partner, typically the female,assumes, "We know each other so well that you will knowwhat I mean without my saying it outright; all I need dois hint"; while the other partner, typically the male,assumes, "We know each other so well that you will tellme what you want.
"Furthermore, there are various ways of honoring inter-~ersonal involvement, as service of two overriding hu-man goals.
These have been called, by Brown and Levin-son (1978}, positive and negative politeness, buildingon R. Lakoff's stylistic continuum from camaraderie todistance (1973) and Goffman's presentational and avoid-ance rituals (1967).
These and other schemata recog-nize the universal human needs to l) be connected toother people and 2) be left alone.
Put another way,there are universal, simultaneous, and conflicting hu-man needs for community and independence.Linguistic choices reflect service of one or the otherof these needs in various ways.
The paralinguisticallygross listener responses mentioned above are features inan array of devices which I have hypothesized place thesignalling load (Gumperz' term) on the need for commu-nity.
Other features co-occurring in the speech of manyspeakers of this style include fast rate of speech; fastturn-taking; preference for simultaneous speech; ten-dency to introduce new topics without testing the con-versational waters through hesitation and other signals;persistence in introducing topics not picked up by oth-ers; storytelling; preference for stories told aboutpersonal experience and revealing emotional reaction ofteller;'talk about personal matters; overstatement foreffect.
(All of these features surfaced in the settingof a casual conversation at dinner; it would be pre-mature to generalize for other settings).
These andother features of the speech of the New Yorkers some-times struck the Californians present as imposing, hencefailing to honor their need for independence.
The useof contrasting devices by the Californians led to theimpression on some of the New Yorkers that they weredeficient in honoring the need for community.
Of coursethe underlying goals were not conceptualized by partici-pants at the time.
What was perceived was sensed aspersonality characteristics: "They're dominating," and"They're cold."
Conversely, when style was shared, theconclusion was, "They're nice.
"Perhaps many of these s ty l i s t ic  differences come down todiffering attitudes toward silence.
I suggest that thefast-talking style I have characterized above grows outof a desire to avoid silence, which has a negative value.Put another way, the unmarked meaning of silence, inthis system, is evidence of lack of rapport.
To otherspeakers -- for example, Athabaskan Indians, accordingto Basso (1972) and Scollon (1980) -- the unmarked mean-ing of silence is positive.Individual and social differencesAll of these parameters are intended to suggest pro-cesses that operate in signalling meaning in conversa-tion.
Analys'is of cross-cultural differences is usefulto make apparent processes that go unnoticed when sig-nalling systems are shared.An obvious question, one that has been indirectlyaddressed throughout the present discussion, confrontsthe distinction between individual and cultural differ-ences.
We need to know, for the understanding of ourown lives as much as for our theoretical understandingof discourse, how much of any speaker's style -- thelinguistic and paralinguistic devices signal)ing meaning-- are prescribed by the culture, and which are chosenfreely.
The answer to this seems to resemble, one levelfurther removed, the distinction between cohesive vs.expressive features.
The answer, furthermore, must liesomewhere between fixity and novelty -- a matter ofchoices among alternatives offered by cultural convention.ReferencesBasso, K. 1972.
To give up on words: Silence in WesternApache culture, in P.P.
G ig l io l i ,  ed., Language insocial context.
Penguin.Brown, P. & S. Levinson.
1978.
Universals in languageusage: Politeness phenomena, in E. Goody, ed., Ques-tions and politeness.
Cambridge.Fil lmore, C. 1979.
Innocence: A second ideal izat ion forl inguist ics ,  Proceedings of the f i f th  annual meetingof the Berkeley Linguistics Society.Goffmen, E. 1967.
Interaction r t tua l .
Doubleday.Kay, P. 1977.
Language evolution and speech style, in B.Blount & M. Sanches, eds., Sociocultural dimensions oflanguage change.
NY: Academic.Lakoff, R. 1973.
The logic of politeness, or mindingyour p's and q's.
Papers from the ninth regionalmeeting of the Chicago Linguistics Society.Scollon, R. 1980.
The machine stops: Silence in themetaphor of malfunction.
Paper prepared for the A~er-ican Anthropological Association annual meeting.40
