Metaphor  Comprehens ion  - A special  mode of language process ing?
(Extended Abstract)Jon M. SlackOpen Univers i ty ,  U.K.The paper  addresses  the quest ion  of whether  acomplete  language unders tand ing  system requiresspecia l  p rocedures  in order  to comprehendmetaphor ica l  language.
To answer  this quest ionit is necessary  to de l ineate  the processesinvo lved in metaphor  comprehens ion  and to det-ermine the un iqueness  of such processes  in thecontext  of ex is t ing  language unders tand ingsystems.I.
DEF IN ING THE PROBLEMFor the purposes  of this paper  a metaphor  i sde f ined as a l ingu is t ic  input conta in inge lements  which  resu l t  in a mismatch  at thesemant ic  level  wh ich  the language unders tand ingsystem at tempts  to interpret.
For  example,  thesentenceB i l lboards  are warts  on the landscape .
1resu l ts  in a semant ic  mismatch  represented  bythe sentenceB i l lboards  are not a memberof the category  warts  .... 2wh ich  is encountered  when the under ly ing  concep-tua l .
s t ruc ture  is bui l t  for the sentence.However,  the mismatch  need not be rest r ic tedto e lements  of the sa/ne sentence.
Even thoughthe e lements  of a par t i cu la r  sentence may notresul t  in a semant ic  mismatch,  the whole  sent-ence i tsel f  can be metaphor ica l  w i th  respect  toits l ingu is t ic  context.
In this case the seman-tic mismatch  is encountered  when the in terpret -er has d i f f i cu l ty  connect ing  the conceptua lrepresentat ion  of the sentence to the ex is t ingst ructure represent ing  the context.Metaphor  comprehens ion  is def ined as the proc-ess of mapping  input metaphors  onto connectedconceptua l  representat ions .A model  of metaphor  comprehens ion  is de f inedas the set of processes  requ i red to in terprete lements  of l ingu is t ic  input which  semant ica l lymismatch  their  l ingu is t ic  context.
The mis-match ing  e lements  are re fer red to as theveh ic le  of the metaphor ,  whi le  the l ingu is t iccontext  is known as the top ic  of the metaphor .2.
BU ILDING A MODEL OF METAPHOR COMPREHENSIONFor the purposes  of descr ib ing  the model  on lysentences which  conta in  both the veh ic le  andtopic e lements  of the metaphor  are cons idered.However,  the comprehens ion  processes  descr ibedshould apply  to al l  c lasses  of metaphor ,  inc lud-ing copula  form (e.g.
The wor ld  is a chessboard~and verb -based  metaphors  (e.g.
His words weredr ied  by the sun).
The model  to be out l inedis based on the ana lys is  of a large sample ofparaphrases  produced by twenty subjects  for aco l lec t ion  of over  f i f ty  metaphors .It is necessary  to d i s t ingu ish  between d i f fe r -ent types of comprehens ion  task.
A l though thecomprehens ion  processes  are genera l ly  app l i c -able, whether  the metaphor ica l  input is ini so la t ion  or part  of a larger  l ingu is t ic  inputg reat ly  in f luences  the cho ice  of comprehens ionstrategy.In l lne w i th  most  language comprehens ion  sys-tems, the goal  of metaphor  comprehens ion  is tobu i ld  an in tegrated conceptua l  s t ructure  butfrom mismatch ing  components .
The model  isbased on the not ion  that the ex is tence  of thesemant ic  mismatch  makes  it necessary  to bu i lda conceptua l  s t ructure  which  embodies  al l  thesa l ient  knowledge s t ructures  assoc ia ted  wi ththe veh ic le  element.
This  process  is re fer redto as veh ic le  expansion.Br ief ly ,  the comprehens ion  process  proceeds  asfol lows:The e lements  of the sentence are mapped ontothe i r  d ic t ionary  entr ies  and in a t tempt ing  tobui ld  a conceptua l  s t ructure  a semant icres t r i c t ion  v io la t ion  (semantic mismatch)  isencountered  - the subject,  or object,  or bothdo not conform to the semant ic  res t r i c t ionsassoc ia ted  wi th  the verb.
The dec is ion  ofwh ich  e lement  represents  the topic  and whichthe veh ic le  of the metaphor  is usua l ly  deter -mined  by the ext ra -sentent ia l  context.
However,for i so lated metaphors  the veh ic le  is usua l lythe e lement  which  has the min imal  match  withthe other  e lements.
The knowledge st ructureswh ich  const i tu te  the veh ic le  e lement  conceptare temporar i l y  bu i l t  into the conceptua ls t ructure  represent ing  the mean ing  of thesentence.
This  generated  conceptua l  s t ructure(C~S) is also connected  to the topic knowledges t ructures  (TKS).
Comprehens ion  is completewhen the GCS and TKS are in tegrated into as ingle conceptua l  structure.
Veh ic le  expans iongenerates  a re la t ive ly  large conceptua l  st ruct -ure wh ich  is pruned by means  of the processeswhich  integrate  the GCS and TKS.
For example,those knowledge st ructures  which  gave r ise tothe semant ic  mismatch  are de le ted  from theconceptua l  s t ructure  because they cont rad ic twhat  is known about  the topic.
Metaphorcomprehens ion  invo lves  in terpret ing  the GCS interms of the TKS.
This  is ach ieved by means ofa match ing  process  and the comprehens ions t rateg ies  descr ibed  below.
"The match ing  process  searches for match ing  know-ledge st ructures  in the GCS and TKS.
Var iousforms of the process  are cons idered  - fuzzymatch ing  procedures,  a spreading act ivat ionprocess.
The outcome of the process  is typic-al ly, (a) an e lement  of the GCS matches  a low-sa l iency TKS element,  (b) an e lement  of the GCScont rad ic ts  a TKS element,  or (c) a GCS e lementmatches  nor cont rad ic ts  any TKS element.
Out -come (b) prunes the GCS; outcomes (a) and (c)connect  it to the TKS.23In addition, certain input metaphors requireother comprehension strategies to be invoked,such as context construction or recursive meta-phor interpretation.Context construction - in some cases, althoughthe matching procedure has constructed a numberof important connections between the GCS andthe TKS, it is necessary to search for addition-al knowledge structures which represent contextinformation which was missing in the originalinput.
The goal of the context constructionprocedure is to provide a context informationin which the GCS-TKS connections are fullyinterpreted, that is, more fully integrated.The paper discusses the conditions necessaryfor the strategy to be employed.Recursive metaphor interpretation - many ofthe elements of the GCS are themselves metap~sin that they contain implicit semantic mis-matches.
These metaphoric elements are inter-preted as metaphor inputs thereby making thecomprehension process recursive.Due to the limited processing capacity andmemory constraints of language understandingsystems, the metaphor comprehension processrequires a complex control structure.
Thiscontrol structure governs the use of the comp-rehension strategies and orders the vehicleexpansion and matching processes.3.
COMPARISON WITH OTHER THE?RIESThe paper compares the model of metaphor comp-rehension with established theories of metaphorwithin l inguistics and psychology.4.
CONCLUSIONSThe final part of the paper examines therelationship between metaphor comprehensionand existing language comprehension systems.The processes which constitute the model ofmetaphor comprehension are common to manylanguage understanding systems (Schank, Wilks,L)IR group, etc.).
The comprehension of metaphordoes not require a special set of processes tobe developed, although the comprehensionstrategies may be specific to the comprehensiontask.
Rather, a metaphor input forces thecomprehension system to invoke a complexcontrol structure to cope with the larger andricher knowledge domains which have to behandled.
The main conclusion of the paper isthat the notions of processing capacity,memory constraints and control structure arethe most salient constructs in sLmulationmetaphor comprehension.24
