Interactive Discourse: Influence of Problem ContextPanel Chair's IntroductionBarbara GroszSRI InternationalThe purpose of the special parasession on "InteractiveMan/Machine Discourse" is to discuss some criticalissues in the design of (computer-based) interactivenatural language processing systems.
This panel willbe addressing the question of how the purpose of theinteraction, or "problem context" affects what is saidand how it is interpreted.
Each of the panel membersbrings a different orientation toward the study oflanguage to this question.
My hope is that looking atthe question from these different perspectives will ex-pose issues critical to the study of language in gener-al, and to the construction of computer systems that canco~nunicate with people in particular.
Of course, theissue of the influence of "problem context" is separablefrom the issue of how one might get a computer system totake into account the effects of this context (and, yes,even whether that is possible).
My hope is that thoseon the panel who are concerned with the construction ofcomputer-based natural language processing systems willaddress some of the issues of "how" and that all of thepanelists will consider the prior questions of what ef-fects there are and what general principles underlie howthe "problem context" influences a dialogue.ples.
There is no taxonomy of function (as I've usedthe word).
How might such a taxonomy be constructed andused?What kinds of expectations are set up by different kindsof functions?What assumptions about the knowledge, beliefs, and goalsthat are shared by the participants are made by the dif-ferent functions?How do the constraints from function interact with thoseof domain?What kinds of "tools" are useful for examlning such is-sues?
(e.g., what kinds of analysis of data can bedone)?What happens when expectations generated by problem con-text (either function or domain) are violated?There are two separate aspects to the "problem context"that influence the participants' expectations and hencetheir utterances: (i) the function of the discourse,and, (2) the domain of discourse.Function: This aspect of the problem context concernswhy the speaker and hearer are communicating and theirrelative roles in the communication.
Casual conversa-tions, classroom discussions, task-oriented dialogues,and stories have very different functions.
Although itis most reasonable to consider computer systems as par-ticipating in a restricted kind of dialogue (namely, adialogue which arises from aiding a person in the solu-tion of some problem), it is still clear that such sys-tems may assume different roles, e.g., that of an expert(user is an apprentice), tutor (student), or supplier ofinformation (e.g., from a large data base).
Each of thedifferent functions results in different kinds of goals(e.g., teaching requires a different kind of informlngthan simple question answering) and each of the differ-ent roles will create different expectations on the partof the user and different needs in terms of the kinds ofinformation the system has about the user.Domain: This aspect concerns what a speaker is talkingabout, the subject matter of the discourse.
The struc-ture of the information being discussed has an effect onthe language (of.
Chafe's "The Flow of Language and theFlow of Thought", Linde's work on apartment descriptionsand planning, my work on focusing in task-oriented dia-toques).Both of these aspects of "problem context" have globaleffects on what gets discussed and in what "units", andlocal effects on how speakers express the informationthey convey.
Clearly the two aspects interact.
For ex-ample, what a speaker chooses to discuss next dependsboth on why he is telling the hearer and on the informa-tion itself and what it is related to.Some questions to consider:-~n what ways are the effects of problem context manifestAn individual utterances and larger discourse units?How do people's "conversational styles" differ?The above discussion of "function" gave several exam-25
