REPRESENTATION OF TEXTS FOR INFORMATION RETRIEVALN.J.
Belkin, B.G.
Michell, and D.G.
KuehnerUniversity of Western OntarioThe representation of whole texts is a major concern ofthe field known as information retrieval (IR), an impor-taunt aspect of which might more precisely be called'document retrieval' (DR).
The DR situation, with whichwe will be concerned, is, in general, the following:a.
A user, recognizing an information need, presents toan IR mechanism (i.e., a collection of texts, with aset of associated activities for representing, stor-ing, matching, etc.)
a request, based upon that needhoping that the mechanism will be able to satisfythat need.b.
The task of the IR mechanism is to present the userwith the text(s) that it judges to be most likely tosatisfy the user's need, based upon the request.c.
The user examines the text(s) and her/his need issatisfied completely or partially or not at all.The user's judgement as to the contribution of eachtext in satisfying the need establishes that text'susefulness or relevance to the need.Several characteristics of the problem which DR attemptsto solve make current IR systems rather different from,say, question-answering systems.
One is that the needswhich people bring to the system require, in general,responses consisting of documents about the topic orproblem rather than specific data, facts, or inferences.Another is that these needs are typically not preciselyspecifiable, being expressions of an anomaly in theuser's state of knowledge.
A third is that this is anessentially probabilistic, rather than deterministicsituation, and is likely to remain so.
And finally,the corpus of documents in many such systems is in theorder of millions (of, say, journal articles or ab-stracts), and the potential needs are, within ratherbroad subject constraints, unpredictable.
The DR situ-ation thus puts certain constraints upon text represen-tation and relaxes others.
The major relaxation isthat it may not be necessary in such systems to producerepresentations which are capable of inference.
A con-straint, on the other hand, is that it is necessary tohave representations which ca~ indicate problems that auser cannot her/himself specify, and a matching systemwhose strategy is to predict which documents might re-solve specific anomalies.
This strategy can, however,be based on probability of resolution, rat.her than cer-tainty.
Finally, because of the large amount of data,.it is desirable that the representation techniques bereasonably simple computationally.Appropriate text representations, given these con-Straints, must necessarily be of whole texts, and prob-ably ought to be themselves whole, unitary structures,rather than lists of atomic elements, each treated sep-arately.
They must be capable of representing problems,or needs, as well as expository texts, and they oughtto allow for some sort of pattern matching.
An obviousgeneral schema within these requirements is a labelledassociative network.Our approach to this general problem is strictly prob-lem-oriented.
We begin with a representation schemewhich we realize is oversimplified, but which standswithin the constraints, and test whether it can be pro-gressively modified in response to observed deficien-cies, until either the desired level of performance insolving the problem is reached, or the approach is shownto be unworkable.
We report here on some lingu/stical-ly-derived modifications to a very simple, but neverthe-less psychologically and linguistically based word-co-occurrence analysis of text \[i\] (figure I).POSITION RANK (r)Adjacent 1Same Sentence 2Adjacent Sentences 3FOR EACH CO-OCCURRENCE OF EACH WORD PAIR (Wl,W 2)1SCORE = 1 + r X i00FOR ALL CO-OCCURRENCES OF EACH WORD PAIR IN TEXTASSOCIATION STRENGTH = SUM (SCORES)Figure I.
Word Association AlgorithmThe original analysis was applied to two kinds of texts :abstracts of articles representing documents stored bythe system, and a set of 'problem statements' represent-ing users' information needs -- their anomalous statesof knowledge -- when they approach the system.
Theanalysis produced graph-like structures, or associationmaps, of the abstracts and problem statements which wereevaluated by the authors of the texts (Figure 2)(Figure 3).CLUSTERING LARGE FILES OF DO~NTSUSING THE SINGLE-LINK METHODA method for clustering large files of documentsusing a clustering algorithm which takes O(n**2)operations (single-link) is proposed.
Thismethod is tested on a file of i1,613 doc%unentsderived from an operational system.
One prop-erty of the generated cluster hierarchy (hier-archy con~ection percentage) is examined andit indicates that the hierarchy is similar tothose from other test collections.
A comparisonof clustering times with other methods showsthat large files can be cluStered by single-link in a time at least comparable to variousheuristic algorithms which theoretically requirefewer operations.Figure 2.
Sample Abstract AnalyzedIn general, the representations were seen as being ac-curate reflections of the author's state of knowledgeor problem; however, the majority of respondents alsofelt that some concepts were too strongly or weaklycomnected, and that important concepts were omitted(Table i).We think that at least some of these problems arisebecause the algorithm takes no account of discoursestructure.
But because the evaluations indicated thatthe algorithm produces reasonable representations, weha%~ decided to amend the analytic structure, ratherthan abandon it completely.147TIM COMPARALGORITHM ~\  ~ \-.
15 VI , ' \  ., \ / : ' , \o~.RAT-- - "- V \ \X ~ M~fHOD N k\ \TESTLINK= Strong Associations= Medium Associations-- -- -- - Weak AssociationsFigure 3.Table i.Oues tioni.
ACCURATEREFLECTION?2.
(a) CONCEPTS TOOSTRONGLYCONNECTED?
(b) CONCEPTS TOOWEAKLYCONNECTED?3.
CONCEPTSOMITTED?4.
IF NO OR' INTERM' tONO.
l, WASABSTRACTACCURATE?Association Map for Sample AbstractAbstract Representation Evaluation% YES % NO % % NOINTERM.
RESP.48.0 29.6 22.0 N=3063.0 37.0 Nffi3096.3 3.7 N=3088.9 11.1 N-3064.3 7.1 21.4 7.1 N=14Our current modifications to the analysis consist pri-marily of methods for translating facts about discoursestructure into rough equivalents within the word-co-occurrence paradigm.
We choose this strategy, ratherthan attempting a complete and theoretically adequatediscourse analysis, in order to incorporate insightsabout discourse without violating the cost -d volumeconstraints typical of DR systems.
The modi~,cationsare designed to recognize such aspects of discoursestructure as establishment of topic; "setting of context;summarizing; concept foregrounding; and stylistic vari-ation.
Textual characteristics which correspond withthese aspects Include discourse-initial and discourse-final sentences; title words in the text: equivalencerelations; and foregrounding devices (Figure 4).i.
Repeat first and last sentences of the text.These sentences may include the more important con-cepts, and thus should be more heavily weighted.2.
Repeat first sentence of paragraph after the lastsentence.To integrate these sentences more fully into ~heoverall structure.3.
Make the title the first and last sentence of thetext, or overweight the score for each cO-OCcurrencecontaining a title word.Concepts in the title are likely to be the most im-portant in the text, yet are unlikely to be usedoften in the abstract.4.
Hyphenate phrases in the input text (phrases chosenalgorithmically) and then either: a.
Use the phraseonly as a unit equivalent to a single word in theco-occurrence analysis ; or b. use any co-occurrencewith either member of the phrase as a co-occurrencewith the phrase, rather than the individual word.This is to control for conceptual units, as opposedto conceptual relations.5.
Modify original definit ion of adjacency, whichcounted stop-l ist words, to one which ignores stop-list words.
This is to correct for the distortioncaused by the distribution of function words in therecognition of multi-word concepts.Figure 4.
Modifications to Text Analysis ProgramWe have written alternative systems for each of the pro-posed modifications.
In this experiment the originalcorpus of thirty abstracts (but not the prublem state-ments) is submitted to all versions of the analysis pro-grams and the results co~ared  to the evaluations of theoriginal analysis and to one another.
From the compar-isons can be determined: the extent to which discoursetheory can be translated into these terms; and the rela-tive effectiveness of the various modif ications in im-proving the original representations.Referencei.
Belkin, N.J., Brooks, H.M., and Oddy, R.N.
1979.Representation and classif ication of knowledge andinformation for use in interactive information re-trieval.
In Human Aspects of Information Science.Oslo: Norwegian Library School.148
