NATURAL VS.
PRECISE CONCISE LANGUAGES FOR HUMAN OPERATION OF COMPUTERS:RESEARCH ISSUES AND EXPERIMENTAL APPROACHESBen S~eiderman, Department of Computer ScienceUniversity of Maryland, College Park, MD.This paper raises concerns that natural language frontends for computer systems can limit a researcher'sscope of thinking, yield inappropriately complex systems,and exaggerate public fear of computers.
Alternativemodes of computer use are suggested and the role ofpsychologically oriented controlled experimentation isemphasized.
Research methods and recent experimentalresults are briefly reviewed.i.
INTRODUCTI ONThe capacity of sophisticated modern computers tomanipulate and display symbols offers remarkable oppor-tunities for natural language co~nunication among people.Text editing systems are used to generate business orpersonal letters, scientific research papers, newspaperarticles, or other textual data.
Newer word processing,electronic mail, and computer teleconferencing systemsare used to format, distribute, and share textual data.Traditional record keeping systems for payroll, creditverification, inventory, medical services, insurance.or student grades contain natural language/textual data,In these cases the computer is used as a communicationmedium between humans, which may involve intermediatestages where the computer is used as a tool for datamanipulation.
Humans enter the data in natural lan-guage form or with codes which represent pieces of text(part number instead of a description, course numberinstead of a title, etc.).
The computer is used tostore the data in an internal form incomprehensible tomost humans, to make updates or transformations, and tooutput it in a form which humans can read easily.These systems should act in a comprehensible "tool-like"manner in which system responses satisfy user expec-tations.Several researchers have commented on the impor-tance of letting the user be in control \[i\], avoidingacausality \[2\], promoting the personal worth of theindividual \[3\], and providing predictable behavior \[4\].Practitioners have understood this principle as well:Jerome Ginsburg of the Equitable Life Assur8nce Societyprepared an in-house set of guidelines which containedthis powerful claim:'~othing can contribute more to satisfactory system per-formance than the conviction on the part of the terminaloperators that they are in control of the system andnot the system in control of them.
Equally, nothingcan be more damaging to satisfactory system opemtion,regardless of how well all other aspects of the imple-mentatlon have been handled, than the operator's con-viction that the terminal and thus ~he @~t.e~ ~re incontrol, have 'a mind of their own,' or are tuggingagainst rather than observing the operator's wishes.
"I believe that control over system function and pre-dictable behavior promote the personal worth of theuser, provide satisfaction, encourage competence, andstimulate confidence.
Many successful systems adhereto these principles and offer terminal operators auseful tool or an effective c~maunication media.An idea which has attracted researchers is to have thecomputer take coded information (medical lab testvalues or check marks on medical history forms) andgenerate a natural language report which is easy toread, and which contains interpretations or suggestionsfor treatment.
When the report is merely a simpletextual replacement of the coded data, the system maybe accepted by users, although the compact form of thecoded data may still be preferable for frequent users.When the suggestions for treatment replace a humandecision, the hazy boundary between computer as tooland computer as physician is crossed.Other researchers are more direct in their attempt tocreate systems which simulate human behavior.
Theseresearchers may construct natural language front endsto their systems allowing terminal operators to usetheir own language for operating the computer.
Theseresearchers argue that most terminal operators prefernatural language because they are already familiar withit, and that it gives the terminal operator the great-est power and flexibility.
After all , they argue,computers should be easy to use with no learning andcomputers should be designed to participate in dialogsusing natural language.
These sophisticated systemsmay use the natural language front ends for question-answering from databases, medical diagnosis, computer-assisted instruction, psychotherapy, complex decisionmaking, or automatic programming.2.
DANGERS OF NATURAL LANGUAGE SYSTEMSWhen computer systems leave users with the impressionthat the computer is thinking, making a decision, repre-senting knowledge, maintaining beliefs, or understandinginformation I begin to worry about the future of com-puter science.
I believe that it is counterproductiveto work on systems which present the illusion that theyare reproducing human capacities.
Such an approach canlimit the researcher's scope of thinking, may yield aninappropriately complex system, and potentiallyexaggerates the already present fear of computers inthe general population.2.1 NATURAL LANGUAGE LIMITS THE RESEARCHER'S SCOPEIn constructing computer systems which mimic rather thanserve people, the developer may miss opportunities forapplying the unique and powerful features of a computer:extreme speed, capacity to repeat tedious operationsaccurately, virtually unlimited storage for data, anddistinctive Input/output devices.
Although the slowrate of human speech makes menu selection impractical,high speed computer displays make menu selection anappealing alternative.
Joysticks, lightpens or the"mouse" are extremely rapid and accurate ways of selec-tin E and moving graphic symbols or text on a displayscreen.
Taking advantage o~ these and other ~umputer-specific techniques will enable designers to createpowerful tools without natural language co~mmnds.Building computer systems which behave like people do,is like building a plane to fly by flapping its wings.Once we get past the primitive imitation stage andunderstand the scientific basis of this new technology(more on how to do this later), the human imitationstrategies will be merely museum pieces for the 21stcentury, Joining the clockwork human imitations of the18th century.
Sooner or later we will have to acceptthe idea that computers are merely tools with no moreintelligence than a v~oden pencil, If researchers canfree themselves of the human imitation game and beginto think about using computers for problem solving innovel ways, I believe that there will be an outpouringof dramatic innovation.1392.2 NATURAL LANGUAGE YIELDS INAPPROPRIATELY COMPLEXSYSTEMSConstructing computer systems which present the illusionof human capacities may yield inappropriately complexsystems.
Natural language interaction wlth the tediousclarification dialog seems arc.hair and ponderous whencompared with rapid, concise, and precise databasemanipulation facilities such as Query-by-example orcommercial word processing systems.
It's hard to under-stand why natural language systems seem appealing whencontrasted with modern interactive mechanisms llke highspeed menu selection, light pen movement of icons, orspecial purpose interfaces which allow the user todirectly manipulate their reality.
Natural languagesystems must be complex enough to cope with user actionsstemming from a poor definition of system capabilities.Some users may have unrealistic expectations of what thecomputers can or should do.
Rather than asking precisequestions from a database system, a user may be temptedto ask how to improve profits, whether a defendant isguilty, or whether a military action should be taken.These questions involve complex ideas, value Judgments,and human responsibility for which computers cannot andshould not be relied upon in decision makin 8.Secondly, users may waste time and effort in queryingthe database about data which is not contained in thesystem.
Codd \[5\] experienced this problem in hisRENDEZVOUS system and labeled it "semantic overshoot.
"In co--and systems the user may spend excessive time intrying to determine if the system supports the oper-ations they have in mind.Thirdly, the ambiguity of natural language does notfacilitate the formation of questions or commands.
Aprecise and concise notation may actually help the userin thinking of relevant questions or effective corm"ands.A small number of well defined operators may be moreuseful than Ill-formed natural language statements,especially to novices.
The ambiguity of natural lang-uage may also interfere with careful thinking about thedata stored in the machine.
An understanding ofonto/into mappings, one-to-one/one-to-many/many-to-manyrelationships, set theory, boolean algebra, or predicatecalculus and the proper no~atlon may he of great assis-tance in formulating queries.
Mathematicians (andmusicians, chemists, knitters, etc.)
have long relied onprecise concise notations because they help in problemsolving and human-to-human communication.
Indeed, thesyntax of precise concise query or co~aand language mayprovide the cues for the semantics of intended opera-tions.
This dependence on syntax is strongest fornaive users who can anchor novsl s~nt ic  concepts tothe syntax presented.2.3 NATURAL LANGUAGE G~E~TES MISTRUST, ~G~,  FEARAND ANXIETYUsing computer systems which attempt to behave llkehumans may be cute the first time they are tried, butthe smile is short-lived.
The friendly greeting at thestart of some computer-assisted instruction systems,computer games, or automated bank tellers, quicklybecomes an annoyance and, I believe, eventually leadsto mistrust and anger.
The user of an automated bankteller machine which starts with "Hello, how can I helpyou?"
recognizes the deception and soon begins towonder how else the bank is trying to deceive them.Customers want simple tools whose range of functionsthey understand.
A more serious problem arises withsystems which carry on a complete dialog in naturallanguage and generate the image of a robot.
Movie andtelevision versions of such computers produce anxiety,alienation, and fear of computers taking over.In the long run  the pub l i c  a t t i tude  to~rds  computerswi l l  govern the  fu ture  of acceptab le  ~asearch ,  deve lop-ment, and app l i ca t ions .
Dest ruct ion  of computer systemsin the  United States  dur ing  the turbu lent  1960 's ,  andin France Jus t  recent ly  (News~ek Apr i l  28, 1980 -- Anunderground group,  the Committee fo r  the L iqu idat ion  orDeter rence  of Computers c la imed respons ib i l i ty  fo r  bomb-ing Transpor ta t ion  Min is t ry  computers and dec la red :  '~eare  computer workers  and there fore  wel l  p laced  to knowthe present and future dangers of computer systems.They are used to classify, control and to repress.
")reveal the anger and fear that many people associatewith computers.
The movie producers take their ideasfrom research projects and the public reacts to com~wnexperiences with computers.
Distortions or exagger-ations may be made, but there is a legitimate basis tothe public's anxiety.One more note of concern before making some positive andconstructive suggestions.
It has often disturbed methat researchers in natural language usually build sys-tems for someone else to use.
If the idea is so good,why don't researchers build natural language systemafor their own use.
Why not entrust their taxes, homemanagement, calendar/schedule, medical care, etc.
to anexpert system~ Why not encode their knowledge abouttheir own dlslpline in a knowledge representation fan E-uage?
If such systems are truly effective then thedevelopers should be rushing to apply them to their ownneeds and further their professional career, financialstatus, or personal needs.3.
HUMAN FACTORS EXPERIMENTATI~ FOR DEVELOPING INTER-ACTIVE SYSTEMSMy work with psychologically oriented experiments overthe past seven years has made a strong believer in theutility of empirical testing \[6\].
I believe that we canget past the my-language-is-better-than-your-language ormy-system-is-~ore-natural-and-easler-to-use stage ofcomputer science to a more rigorous and disciplinedapproach.
Subjective, introspective Judgments based onexperience will always be necessary sources for newideas, but controlled experiments can be extremely valu-able in demonstrating the effectiveness of novel inter-active mechaniem~ programming language control struc-tures, or new text editing features.
Experimental tes-ting requires careful state~ent of a hypothesis, choiceof independent and dependent variables, selection andassignment of subjects, administration to minimize bias,statistical analysis~ and asaesment of the results.This approach can reveal mistaken assumptions, demon-strate generality, show the relatlvestrength ofeffects, and provide evilence for a theory of humanbehavior which may suggest new research.A natural strategy for evaluating the effectiveness ofnatural language facilities would be to define a task,such as retrieval of ship convoy information or solu-tion of a computational problem, then provide subjectswith either a natural language facility or an alterna-tive mode such as a query language, simple programminglanguage, set of co~ands, menu selection, etc.
Train-ing provided with the natural language system or thealternative would be a critical issue, itself the sub-ject of study.
Subjects would perform the task and beevaluated on the basis of accuracy or speed.
In my ownexperience, I prefer to provide a fixed time intervaland measure performance.
Since inter-subject vari-ability in task performance tends to be very large,within subjects (also called repeated measures) designsare effective.
Su:,~ects perform the task with eachmode and the statis ical  tests compare scores in onemode against the other.
To account for learning effects,the expectation that the second time the task is per-formed the subject does better, half the subjects beginwith natural language, while half the subjects begin14Cwith the alternative mode.
This experimental designstrategy is known as counterbalanced orderings.If working systems are available, then an on-llneexperiment provides the most realistic environment, butproblems with operating systems, text editors, sign-onprocedures, system crashes, and other failures can biasthe results.
Experimenters may also be concerned aboutthe slowness of some natural language systems on cur-rently available computers as a biasing factor in suchexperiments.
An alternative would be on-line experi-ments where a human plays the role of a natural languagesystem.
This appears to be viable alternative \[7\] ifproper precautions are taken.
Paper and pencil studiesare a suprisingly useful approach and are valuable sinceadministration is easy.
Much can be learned about humanthought processes and problem solving methods hy con-trasting natural language and proposed alternatives inpaper and pensil studies.
Subjects may be asked to writequeries to a database of present a sequence of commandsusing natural language or some alternative mode \[9\].There is a growing body of experiments that is helping toclarify issues and reveal problems about human perform- 4.ante with natural language usage on computers.
Codd \[5\]and Woods \[8\] describe informal studies in user perform- I)ante with their natural language systems.
Small andWeldon \[7\] conducted the first rigorous comparison ofnatural language with a database query language.
Twentysubjects worked with a subset of SEQUEL and an on-llne 2)simulated natural language system to composed queries.Shneiderman \[9\] describes a similar paper and pencilexperlmenn comparing performance with natural languageand a subset of SEQUEL.
The results of both of these 3)experiments suggest that precise concise database querylanguage do aid the user in rapid formulation of moreeffective queries.Damerau \[I0\] reports on a field study in which a function- 4)ing natural language system, TQA, was installed in acity planning office.
His system succeeded on 513 out of788 queries during a one year period.
Hershman, Kellyand Miller \[ii\] describe a carefully controlled experi-ment in which ten naval officers used the LADDER natural 5)language system after a ninety minute training period.In a simulated rescue attempt the system properly res-ponded to 258 out of 336 queries.Critics and supporters of natural language usage can allfind heartening and disheartening evidence from these 6)experimental reports.
The contribution of these studiesis in clarification of the research issues, developmentof the experimental methodology, and production of guide-lines for developers of interactive systems.
I believe 7)that developers of natural language systems should avoidover-emphasizing their tool and more carefully analyzethe problem to be solved as well as human capacities.If the goal is to provide an appealing interface forairline reservations, hank transactions, databaseretrieval, or mathematical problem solving, then the 8)first step should be a detailed review of the possibledata structures, control structures, problem decomposi-tions, cognitive models that the user might apply, repre-sentation strategies, and Importance of background know-ledge.
At the same time there should be a careful 9)analysis of how the computer system can provide assis-tance by representing and displaying data in a usefulformat, providing guidance in choosing alternativestrategies, offering effective messages at each stage 10)(feedback on failures and successes), recording thehistory and current status of the problem solvingprocess, and giving the user comprehensible and powerfulco,ands.ll)Experimental research will be helpful in guiding devel-opers of interactive systems and in evaluating the impor-tance of the user's familiarity with:i) the problem domain2) the data in the computer3) the available commands4) typing skills5) use of tools such as text editors6) terminal hardware such as light pens, specialpurpose keyboards or unusual display mechanisms7) background knowledge such as boolean algebra,predicate calculus, set theory, etc.8) the specific system - what kind of experience effector learning curve is thereExperiments are useful because of their precision,narrow focus, and replicability.
Each experiment maybe a minor contribution, but, with all its weaknesses,it is more reliable than the anecdotal reports frombiased sources.
Each experimental result, like a smalltile in a mosaic which has a clear shape and color,adds to our image of human performance in the use ofcomputer systems.REFERENCESCheriton, D.R., Man,Machine interface design fortime-sharlng systems, proceedings of the ACMNational Conference, (1976), 362-380.Gaines, Brian R. and Peter V. Facey, Some experiencein interactive system development and application,Prpceedln~s of the IEEE, 63, 6, (June 1975), 894-911.Pew, R.W.
and A.M. Rollins, Dialog SpecificationProcedure, Bolt Beranek and Newman, Report No.
3129,Revised Edition, Cambridge, Massachusetts, 02138,(1975).Hansen, W.J., User engineering principles for inter-active systems, Proceedings of the Fall JointQ~mputer Conference, 39, AFIPS Press, Montvale,New Jersey, (1971), 523-532.Codd, E.F., HOW ABOUT RECENTLY?
(English dialoguewith relational databases using RENDEZVOUS Versioni), In B. Shneiderman (Ed.
), Databases: 7mprovingUsabilltv and Responsiveness, Academic Press, NewYork, (1978), 3-28.Shneiderman, B., Software Psychology: ~uman Factorsin Computer and Information Systems, Winthrop Pub-lishers, Cambridge, HA (1980).Small, D.W. and L.J.
Weldon, The efficiency ofretrieving information from computers using naturaland structured query languages, Science ApplicationsIncorporated.
Report SAI-78-655-WA, Arlington,Va.,(Sept.
1977).Woods, W.A., Progress in natural language understan-ding - an application to lunar geology, Proceedingsof the National Computer Conference, 42, AFIPS Press,Montvale, New Jersey, (1973), 441-450.Shneiderman, B., Improving the human factors aspectof database interactions, ACM Transactions on Data-b~se Systems, 3, 4, (December 1978a), 417-~39.Damerau, Fred J., The Transformational QueryAnswering System (TQA) operational statistics -1978, IBM T.J. Watson Research Center RC 7739,Yorktown Heights, N.Y. (June 1979).Hershman, R.L., R.T. Kelly and H.G.
Miller, Userperformance with a natural language query system forcommand control, Navy Personnel Research and Devel-opment Center Technical Report 79-7, San Diego,CA,(1979).141
