A Linear-time Model of Language Production: some psychological implications(extended abstract)David D. McDonaldMIT Artif icial Intel l igence LaboratoryCambridge, MassachusettsTraditional psycholinguistic studies of languageproduct ion ,  us ing evidence from natural ly  occurr inger rors  in speech \ [1 \ ] \ [2 \ ]  and from real - t ime studies ofhes i ta t ions  and react ion t ime \[3\] \ [4\]  have resulted inmode ls  of the  levels at wh ich  d i f ferent  l inguist ic uni tsare  represented  and the constra ints  on their  scope.This  k ind  of ev idence by itself, however ,  can tell usnoth ing  about  the character  of the process thatman ipu la tes  these units,  as there are many a prior ia l te rnat ive  computat iona l  devices that  are equal lycapable  of  imp lement ing  the observed behavior.
It w i l lbe the  thes is  of this paper that  if principled, non-t r i v ia l  models  of the language product ion process areto be const ructed ,  they  must be informed bycomputat iona l ly  mot ivated constraints.
In particular.the  des ign under ly ing  the l inguist ic component I havedeve loped  ("MUMBLE .
.
.
.
prev ious ly  reported in \ [5\ ] \ [6\ ] )is being investigated as a candidate set of suchconst ra in ts .Any  computat iona l  theory  of product ion that  is tobe interesting as a psycholinguistic model must meetcertain minimal criteria:(1)  P roduc ing  ut terances incremental ly,  in thei rnormal  le f t - to - r ight  order, and w i th  a we l l -de f ined "po in t -o f -no - re turn"  since wordsonce said can not be invisibly taken back~(2) Mak ing  the transition from the non-linguistic "message"-level representation tothe utterance via a linguistically structuredbuffer of only" limited size: people are notcapable of linguistic precognition and canI.
This report describes research done at the ArtificialIntelligence Laboratory of the Massachusetts Institute ofTechnology.
Support for the laboratory's artificialintelligence research is provided in part by the AdvancedResearch Projects Agency of the Department of Defenceunder Office of Naval Research cont ractN00014-75-C-0643.55readily "talk themselves into a corner ''z(3) Grammatical robustness: people make veryfew grammatical errors as compared withlexical selection or planning errors ("falses tar ts" )  \[7\].Theor ies  wh ich  incorporate these propert ies as aninev i tab le  consequence of independent ly  mot ivateds t ruc tura l  proper t ies  wi l l  be more highly valued thanthose  wh ich  on ly  st ipulate them.The design incorporated in MUMBLE has all ofthese properties~ they follow from two keyintertwined stipulations--hypotheses--motivated byintrinsic differences in the kinds of decisions madedur ing language production and by the need for anefficient representation of the information on wh ichthe decisions depend (see \[8\] for elaboration).
(i)(~)The execut ion  t ime of the process is l inear inthe number of  elemenzs in ~he inputmessage, i.e.
the realization decision for eachelement is made only once and may not berevised.The representation for pending realizationdecisions and planned linguistic actions (theresults of earlier decisions) is a surface-levelsyntactic phrase structure augmented byexplicit labelings for its constituentpositions (hereafter referred to as the tree).
3This working-structure is usedsimultaniously for control (determiningwhat  action to take next), for specifyingconstraints (what  choices of actions areZ.
In addition, one inescapable conclusion of the researchon speech-errors is that the linguistic representation(s)used during the production process must be capable ofrepresenting positions independently of the units (lexical orphonetic) that occupy them.
This is a serious problem forATN-b~sed theories of production since they have norepresentation for linguistic structures that is independentfront their representation f the state of the process.3.
The leaves of this tree initially contain to-be-realizedmessage elements.
These are replaced by syntactic/lexicalstructures as the tree is refined in a top-down,left-to-right traversaL Words are produced as they arereached at (new) leaves, and grammatical actions are takenas directed by the annotation on the traversed regions.ruled out because of earlier decisions), forthe representation of linguistic context, andfor the implementation of actions motivatedonly by grammatical convention (e.g.agreement ,  word -ordar  w i th in  the clause,morphological  specializations; see \[6\]).The requ i rement  of l inear time rules out anydec is ion -mak ing  techniques that would requirea rb i t ra ry  scanning of e i ther message or tree.
Itscoro l la ry ,  "Indelibi l i ty", 4 requires that message bereal ized incrementa l ly  according to the relat iveimpor tance  of the speaker's intentions.
The paper wi l ld iscuss  how as a consequence of these propert iesdec is ion -mak ing  is forced to take place w i th in  a kindof  blinders: restr ic t ions  on the information availablefo r  dec ia lon-making and on the possibtUtias formon i to r ing  and for invis ible self-repair, all describablein te rms of the usual l inguist ic vocabulary.
A fur therconsequence  is the adoption of a "lexicalist" position ont rans format ions  (see \[9\]), i.e.
once a syntact icconst ruct ion  has been instantiated in the tree, there la t ive  posi t ion of its const i tuents cannot be modified;there fore  any "transformations" that apply must do soat the moment the construction is instantiatad and onthe  basis of on ly  the information available at that time.This is because the tree is not buffer of objects, but aprogram of  scheduled events.Noticed regular i t ies in speech-errors havecounter -par ts  in MUMBLE's design 5 which,  to theextent  that  it is Independent ly  motivated, may providean exp lanat ion  for them.
One example is the4.
I.e.
decisions are not subJeCt to backup-="they are~rritten in indelible ink".
This is also a property ofMarcus's "deterministic" parser.
It is intriguing tospeculate that indelibility may be a key characteristic ofpsychologically plausible performance theories of naturallanguage.5.
MUMBLE produces text.
not speech.
Consequently ithas no Knowledge of syllable structure or intonation andcan make no specific contribution= to the explanation oferrors at that level.phenomena of combined-form errors: word-exchangeerrors where functional morphemes such as plural ortense are "stranded" at their ori~inal positions, e.g.
"My loca ls  are  more  var iab le  than that.
"I n tended-  " .
.
.var iables are more  local""Why don't we  Eo to the 24hr.
Star Marked andyou can see my friend check in E cashes.
"I n tended:  "...cashing checks.
"One of  the th ings  to be explained about these errors iswhy  the  two  classes of morphemes are d ist inguished--why  does the "exchanging mechanism" effect the oneand not  the other?
The form of the answer  to thisquest ion  is genera l ly  agreed upon: two independentrepresentat ions  are being manipulated and themechan ism applies to only one of them.
MUMBLEa l ready  employs two  representat ions of roughly thecor rec t  d is t r ibut ion ,  namely the phrase st ructure tree(de f in ing  posit ions and grammatical properties) andthe  message (whose  elements occupy the positions andprompt  the  select ion of words).
By incorporat ingspec i f ic  ev idence from speech-errors into MUMBLE'sf ramework  (such as whether  the quanti f ier allpar t i c ipates  in exchanges),  it is possible to performsynthet i c  exper iments  to explore the impact of such ahypothes is  on other  aspects of the design.
Thein teract ion  w i th  psychol inguist ios thus becomes atwo-way  street.The fu l l  paper 6 w i l l  develop the notion of al inear - t ime production process: how it is accomplishedand the specif ic l imitat ions that it imposes, and wi l lexp lo re  its impl icat ions as a potential explanation forcer ta in  classes of speech-errors,  certain hesitation andse l f - cor rec t ion  data.
and certain l inguistic onstra_nts.6.
Regretably, the completion of this paper has beendelayed in order for the author to give priority to hisdissertatlon.56References\[I\] Garrett.
M.F.
(1979) "Levels of Processing inSentence Production", in Butterworth ed.Language Production Vo lume I, Academic Press.\[2\] Shattuck Hufnagel, S. (1975) Speech Errors andSentence Production Ph .D .
Dissertation,Department of Psycholog~v, MIT.\['3\] Ford.
M. & Holmes V.M.
(1978) "Planning units andsyntax in sentence production", Cognition 6, 35-63.\['4\] Ford M. (1979) "Sentence Planning Units:Implications for the speaker's representation ofmeaningful relations underlying sentences",Occasional Paper 2, Center for Cognitive Science,MIT.\['5\] McDonald, D,D.
(1978) "Making subsequentreferences., syntactic and rhetorical constraints",TINLAP-g. University of Illinois.\[6\] (1978) "Language generation:Automatic Control of Grammatical Detail", COLING-78.
Bergen.
Norway.\['7\] Fay, D. (1977) "Transformational Errors".International Congress of Linguistics.
Vienna,Austria.\[8\] McDonald D.D.
(in preparation) Natural LanguageProduction as a Process of Decision-makingUnder  ConsU'alnt Ph.D. Dissertation, Departmentof Electrical Engineering and Computer Science,MIT.\[9\] Bresnan, J.
(1978) "Toward a realistic theory ofgrammar", in Bresnan.
Miller, & Halle ads.Linguistic Theory and Psychological Reality MrrPress.57
