NATURAL LANGUAGE AND COMPUTER INTEBFACE DESIGNMURRAY TUROFFDEPARTMENT OF COMPU%'z~ AND IiVFORMATION SCIENCEIIEW JERSEY INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGYSOME ICONOCLASTIC ASSERTIONSConsidering the problems we have in communicating withother h~rmans using natural language, it is not clearthat we want to recreate these problems in dealing withthe computer.
While there is some evidence that natur-al language is useful in communications among humans,there is also considerable evidence that it is neitherperfect nor ideal.
Natural language is wordy (redun-dant) and imprecise.
Most b,*m,m groups who have a needto communicate quickly and accurately tend to develop arather well specified subset of natural language thatis highly coded and precise in nature.
Pilots and po-lice are good examples of this.
Even working groupswithin a field or discipline tend over time to developa jargon that minimizes the effort of communication andclarifies shared precise meanings.It is not clear that there is any group of humans orapplications for computers that would be better servedin the long run by natural language interfaces.
Onecould provide such an interface for the purpose of ac-climating a group or individual to a computer or in-formation system environment but over the long run itwould be highly inefficient for a h,mAn to continue touse such an interface and would in a real sense be adisservice to the user.
Those retrieval systems thatallow natural language like queries tend to also allowthe user to discover with practice the embedded inter-face that allows very terse and concise requests to bemade of the system.
Take the general example of COBOL,which was designed as a language to input businessoriented programs into a computer that could be under-stood by non-computer types.
We find that if we don'tde,and that progrmmmers follow certain standards tomake this possible, they will make their programscryptic to the point where it is not understandable toanyone but other progro,,mers.It is interesting to observe that successful inter-faces between persona and machines tend to be basedupon one or the other of the two extreme choices onecan make in designing a language.
One is small, welldefined vocabularies from which one can build ratherlong and complex expressions and the other is largevocabularies with short expressions.
In some sense,"natural language" is the result of a compromise be-tween these two opposing extremes.
If we had samebetter understanding of the cognitive dynamics thatshape and evolve natural language, perhaps the oneuseful natural language interface that migjat be de-veloped would allow individuals and groups to shapetheir own personalized interface to a computer or in-formation system.
I em quite sure that given such apowerful capability, what a group of users would endup with would be very far from a natural language.The argument is sometimes made that a natural languageinterface might be useful for those who are linguisti-cally disadvantaged.
It might allow very young child-ten  or deaf persons to better utilize the computer.
Isee it as immoral to provide a natural language intro-duction to computers to people who might mistakenlycome to think of a computer as they would another hu-man being.
I would much prefer such individuals to beintroduced to the computer with an interface that willgive them some appreciation for the nature of the ma-chine.
For example, a very simple CAI language calledPILOT has been used to teach grammar school childrenhow to write simple lessons for their classmates.
Theability of the young children to write simple questionanswer sequences and then see them executed as if thecomputer was able to use natural language is, I be-lieve, far more beneficial to the child than givinghim canned lessons as his or her first impression ofwhat a computer is like.COMPUTERIZED CONFERENCINGSince 1973 at the New Jersey Institute of Technology,we have been developing and evaluating the use of acomputer as a direct aid to facilitating human communi-cation.
The basic idea is to use the processing andlogical capabilities of the computer to aid in thecommunication and exchange of written text (Hiltz &Turoff, 1978).
As part of this program we have beenoperating the Electronic Information Exchange System(EIES) as a source of field trial data and as a labora-tory for controlled experimentation.
Currently, EIEShas approximately 600 active users internationally.Our current rate of operation is about 5,000 user hoursa month; 8,000 messages, conference c~-,-ents and note-book pages written a month and about 35,000 deliveredeach month.
The average message is about l0 lines oftext and the average comment or page is about 20 linesof text.EIES offers the user a complete set of differing inter-faces including menus, commands, self-defined commandsand self progra,,m4ng of interfaces for individuals andgroups.
In addition to the standard message, confer-ence and notebook features, EIES has been designed withthe incorporation of a computer language called "INTE~-ACT" that allows special communication structtkres anddata structures to be integrated into the applicationof any specific group.
Much of this capability hasevolved since 1976 through a numerous set of alterna-tive feedback and evaluation mechanisms.
Our usersinclude scientists, engineers, managers, secretaries,teenagers, students, Cerebral Palsy children and 80year old senior citizens.
In all this experience wehave yet to hear a direct request or even implicitdesire for any sor~ of natural language like interface.To the contrary, we  have indirect empirical data thatsupports the premise that a natural language llkeinterface would be a disadvantage.
For the most?
part, the behavior of users on EIES is very sensitiveto the degree of experience they have had with thesystem.
However, there is one key parameter which isinsensitive to the degree, of experience or the rateof use of the system.
This is the number of items auser receives when he or she sits down at the terminalto use the system.
This number stays at around 7 plusor minus 2.
This is obviously a prescriptive effectthe system has on the user as they get into the habitof signing on often enough so that they will not havemore than around 7 new text items waiting for them.Users who have been cut off for a long period by abroken terminal or a vacation that denies them accessusually give ou~ textual screams of "information over-load" when they find tons of tex~ items waiting forthem.
In a rea l  sense, it is natural language that isgenerating this information overload for the user.Another pertinent observation is that each user hasthree unique identifiers; a full name, a short nicK-name, and a three digit number.
Some users always usenicknames and some always use numbers to address theirmessages but I have yet to encounter anyone who usesfull heroes on a regular basis.AUTOMATED ABSTRACTINGOur observations do point to one application where theability to process natural language would be a signi-ficemt augmentation of the users cf computerized ccn-ferencing systems.
We have a large number of confer-ences that have been going on for over a year and whichconta/n thousands of comments.
While a person enteringsuch an on-going discussion can, in principle, go backand read the entire transcript or do selective retriev-al on subtopics, it would be far preferable to be ableto generate autc~a~ic summaries of such large textfiles.
Even for regular use, the ability to zet auto-mated su.~maries would significantly raise the thresholdof information overload and allow users to increasetheir level of co.-.unication activity and the amount ofinformation with which they can deal meaningfully.The goal of being able to process natural language hasalways been a bit of a siren's call and has a cerma.innote of purity about it.
Those striving for it some-times lose sight of the fact thst an imperfect systemmay still be quite useful when the perfect system maybe unobtainable for some time.
One of the importantproblems well recognized in the computer field isteaching computers how to "forget" or eliminate gar-bage.
A less well recognized problem is the one ofteaching a computer how to "give up" gracefully and goto a human to get help.
In other words, the naturallanguage systems that may have significant payoff inthe next  decade are  those  that  b lend  the  best  ta lentso f  man and m~chine in to  one work ing un i t .In the computerized conferencing environment, this meansthat a person requesting a s u ~  of s long conferenceprobably knows enough about the substance to guide thecomputer in the process and to tailor the summary toparticular needs and interests.
In computerized con-ferencing, the ultimate goal is "collective intelli-gence" and one hopes that the apprcpriate design of acommunication structure will allow a group of humans topool their intelligence into something greater than anyof its par~s.
If there is an automated or artificialintelligence system, then providing that system as atool to a group of humans as an integral par~ of theirgroup communication structure, the resulting intelli-gence of the group should be greater than the auto-mated system alone.
I believe ,a similar observationholds for the processing of natural language.
Too oftenthose working in natural language seem to feel that in-tegrating humans into the analysis process would be animpurity or contaminant.
In fact, it may be the highergoal than mere automation.WRITING STYLEA related area with respect to computerized confer-encing is the observation that the style of writing inthis medium of co~mluicaticn differs from other usesof the written or spoken version of natural language.First of all, there is a strong tendency to be conciseand to outline complex discussions.
We can observethis directly in the field trials and also observe thatusers bring group pressure upon those who star~ towrite verbose items or items off the subject of inter-est to the group.
The mechanism most commonly em-ployed is the  anonymous message.
Also, in cur con-trolled experiments on h,..an problem solving (Hiltz,et ai, 1980) we have found that there is no differ-ence in the quality of a solution reached in a face-to-face environment or in a computerized conferencing en-vironment.
However, we do observ~ that the computer-ized conferencing groups use appro imately 60% fewerwords to do just as good a Job as the face-to-facegroups.
Using Bales Interaction Process Analyses(content analyses), we have also confirmed signifi-cant differences in the content of the communica~ious.New users  go through a learn ing  per iod  in  which i t  maytake  l0  to  20 hours  tc  fee l  comfor tab le  in  wr i t ing  inconferences .
We fee l  th i s  i s  due to  the  subconsc iousrecogn i t ion  that  peop le  wTi te  d i f fe rent ly  in  t2~ismedium than  in le t te rs ,  memos or  o ther  forms o f  thewr i t ten  language.
The major i ty  of what a new userwrites (95%) will be messsges the first five hours ofusage and it takes about i00 hours until 25% of theirwritings are in conferences.
Also, it is about i00hours before they feel comfortable in wTiting largertex~ items in notebooks.
One other aspect in the stylechange is ~he incorporation cf many non-verbal quesinto written form (HA' HA', for example).
One cannotsee the nod of the head or hear a gentle laugh.Another  aspect  o f  natura l  language process ing  ~t  cana id  users  in  th i s  form o f  ccamunicat ions  i s  he lp  inovercoming  learn in~ curves  of  th i s  sor~ by be ing  ab leto  process  the  tex~ o f  a group and prov ide  a ecmpara-t i re  ana lys i s  to  new members o f  a group so ~hey canmore qu ick ly  learn  the  s ty le  o f  the  group and fee l  ee l -for%able in cm~mmnicating with the group.
One cancarry this f~er  and ask for abilities to deal incertain levels cf emotion such as : I would like tomake my s ta tement  sound more anser%-lve.CONCLUSIONI do believe that this form of human cn""u~icatlon willbecome as widespread and as significant as the phonehas been to our society.
The ~t~e application ofnatural language processing rea l ly  lies in this area;however, it is not in the interface to the cure,purerthat this futttre rests but rather on the ability ofthis field to provide h~-ns  direct aids in processingthe tex~ found in their c~-w, unications.
Perhaps thereal subject tc address is not the one with which thispanel was titled but the problems e{  person-machineinterface to natural language processing systems.
Or,better yet, person-machine integration within naturallanguage processing.
The computer processing of natur-al language needs to becume the tool of the wTiter,editor, translator and reader.
It also has to aid usin improving our ability to co~unicate.
Most organi-zations are run on cammunications and the lore that iscontained in those c~---unications.
With the increasinguse of camputers as communication devices, the qualita-tive information upon which we depend becomes as avail-able for processing as the quantitative has been.Re ference :THE NETWORK NATION: H,---~ C--munication Via Computer,Start Rcxanne Hiltz and Murray Turoff, Addison-WesleyAdvanced Book Program, 1978.FACE TO FACE VS.
COMPUTERIZED CON~It~NCING: A con-trolled Experiment, Hiltz, Johnson, Aronovitch andTuroff, Report of the C~uter i zed  Confereneing andCommunications Center, NJ!T, January 1980.
