ON THE INDEPENDENCE OF DISCOURSE STRUCTUREAND SEMANTIC DOMAINCharlotte Linde ~ J.A.
Goguen + *I.
THE STATUS OF DISCOURSE STRUCTURETraditionally, l inguistics has been concerned with unitsat the level of the sentence or below, but recently, abody of research has emerged which demonstrates theexistence and organizat ion of l inguistic units largerthan the sentence.
(Chafe, 1974; Goguen, Linde, andWeiner, to appear; Grosz, 1977; Hal l iday and Hasan, 1976;Labov, 1972; Linde, 1974, 1979, 1980a,198Cb; Linde andGoguen, 1978; Linde and Labov, 1975; Folanyi, 1978;Weiner, 1979.)
Each such study raises a question aboutwhether the structure discovered is a property of theorganization of Language or whether it is entirely aproperty of the semantic domain.
That is, are we discov-ering general facts about the structure of language at alevel beyond the sentence, or are we discoveringparticular facts about apartment layouts, water pumprepair, Watergate politics, etc?
Such a crude questiondoes not arise with regard to sentences.
Although muchof the last twenty years of research in sententialsyntax and semantics has been devoted to the investigat-ion of the degree to which syntactic structure can bedescribed independently of semantics, to our knowledge,no one has attempted to argue that all observableregularit ies of sentential structure are attr ibutable tothe structure of the real world plus general cognit iveabilities.
Yet this claim is often made about regular-ities of l inguistic structure at the discourse level.In order =o demonstrate that at leas= some of thestructure found at the discourse level is independentof the structure of the semantic domain, we may showthat there are discourse regularit ies across semanticdomains.
As primary data, we will use apartment layoutdescription, small group planning, and explanation.These have all been found to be discourse units, thatis, bounded l inguistic units one level higher than thesentential level, and have all been described withinthe same formal theory.
It should be noted that we donot claim that the structures found in these discourseunits is entirely independent of structure of thesemantic domain, because of course the structure of thedomain has some effect.2.
TREE TRANSFORMATIONS IN DISCOURSE PRODUCTIONThe discourse units mentioned above have all been foundto be tree structured.
This is a claim that any suchdiscourse can be divided into parts such that thereare signif icant relations of dominance among these parts.These trees can be viewed as being constructed by asequence of transformations on an initial empty tree,with each transformation corresponding to an utteranceby participants, which may add, delete, or move nodesof the tree.
The sequence of transformations encodesthe construction of the discourse as it actuallyproceeds in time.We now turn to a discussion of the discourse unitswhich have been analysed according to this model.
* Structural Semantics, P.O.
Box 707, Palo Alto,Cal i fornia 94302.+ SRI International, 333 Ravenswood Ave., Menlo Park,Cal i fornia 94025.2.1 SPATIAL DESCRIPTIONS AS TOURSIn an investigation of the descr ipt ion of spatialnetworks, speakers were asked to describe the layout oftheir apartment.
The vast majority of speakers used a"tour strategy," which takes the hearer on an imaginarytour of the apartment, bui lding up the descript ion ofthe layout by successive mention of each room and itsposition.
This tour forms a tree composed of the entryto the apartment as root with the rooms and theirlocations as nodes, and with an associated pointerindicating the current focus of attention, expressed byunstressed you.It might be argued that the tree structure of thesedescript ions is a consequence of the structure ofapartments rather than of the structure of discourse.However, there are apartments which are not treestructured, because some rooms have more than oneentrance, thus al lowing mult iple routes to the samepoint; but in their descriptions, speakers traverse onlyone route; that is, loops in the apartment are alwayscut in the descriptions.
\[ Thus, although some of thetree structure may be attr ibutable to the physicalstructure being described, some of it is a consequenceof the ease of expressing tree structures in language,and the dif f iculty of expressing graph structures.The tree structure of apartment descriptions is construc-ted using only addit ion transformations, and pointermovement transformations (called "pops" in tinde andGoguen (1978)) which bring the focus of attention backfrom a branch which has been traversed to the point ofbranching.
The construction of the tree is entirelydepth first.2.2 SPATIAL DESCRIPTIONS AS MAPSIn describing apartment layouts, there is a minoritystrategy, used by 4% of the speakers (3 out of 72 casesof the data of Linde (1974)) describing the layout inthe form of a map.
The speaker first describes theoutside shape, then sketches the internal spatialdivisions, and finally labels each internal division.This strategy can also be described as a treeconstruction, in this case, a breadth first traversalwith the root being the outside shape, the internaldivisions the next layer of nodes, and the names ofthese divisions the terminal nodes.
Because there areso few example, it is not possible to give a detaileddescript ion of the rules for construction.2.3 PLANNINGWe have argued that the structure of apartment layoutdescriptions is not entirely due to the structure of thesemantic domain; however, a question remains as towhether it is the restriction to a limited domain whichpermits precise description.
To investigate this, letus consider the Watergate transcripts, which offer aspectacularly unrestr icted semantic domain, specif ical lythose portions in which the president and his advisorsengage in the activity of planning.
(Linde and Goguen,1978).
Planning sessions form a discourse unit with"\[ In more mathematical  language, the linear sequence ofrooms is the depth first traversal of a minimal spanningtree of the apartment graph.35discernable boundaries and a very precisely describableinternal structure.
Although we can not furnish anydetailed description of the semantic domain, we can beextremely precise about the social activity of planconstruction.Because the cases we have examined involve planning by asmall group, the tree is not constructed exclusively byaddition, as are the types discussed above.
Deletion,substitution, and movement also occur, as a plan iscriticised and altered by all members of the  group.Z.4 EXPLANATIONA discourse unit similar to planning is explanation.
(Weiner, 1979; Goguen, Linde and Weiner to appear.)
(Byexplanation we here include only the discourse unit ofthe form described below; we exclude discourse unitssuch as narratives or question-response pairs which maysocially serve the function of explanation.)
Informally,explanation is that discourse unit which consists of aproposit ion to be demonstrated, and a structure ofreasons, often multiply embedded reasons, which supportit.
The data of this study are accounts given of thechoice to use the long or short income tax form,explanations of career choices, and material from theWatergate transcripts in which an evaluation is givenof how likely a plan is to succeed, with complexreasons for this evaluation.Like apartment descriptions and small group plan-ning, explanation can be described as the transforma-tional construction of a tree structure.
Since in thecasesexauLined, a single person builds the explanation,there are no reconstructive transformations such asdeletion or movement of subtrees; the transformationsfound are addition and pointer movement.
Pointermovement is particularly com~lex in this discourse unitsince explanation permits embedded alternate worlds,which require multiple pointers to be maintained.Explanation structure appears to be the same in thethree different semantic domains, suggesting that thediscourse structure is due to genral rules plus aparticular social context, rather than being due to thestructure of the semantic domain.3.
CRITERIA FOR EVALUATING DISCOURSE STRUC%~/RESThe crit icism might  be made of these tree structuresthat an analyst can impose a tree structure on anydiscourse, without any proof that it is related towhat the speaker himself was doing.
We would claim thatalthough we have, of course, no direct access to thecognitive processes of speakers, there are two relatedcriteria for evaluating a proposed discourse structure.3.
I TEXT MARKINGOne criterion for Judging the  relative naturalness of apar t i cu la r  ana lys i s  i s  the  degree to wh ich  the  textbe ing  ana lysed  conta ins  markers  o f  the  s t ruc ture  be ingpostu la ted .
Thus, we have some conf idP -ce  that  thespeaker  h imse l f  i s  p roceed ing  in  terms o f  a b ranch ings t ruc ture  when we f ind  markers  l i ke  "Row as you ' recoming in to  the f ront  o f  the apar tment ,  i f  you gos t ra ight  ra ther  than go r ight  or  le f t ,  you come in to  ala rge  l i v ing  room area , "  or  "On the  one hand, we cou ldt ry  .
.
. "
The oppos i te  case would  be a text  in  wh ichthe  d iv i s ion  postu la ted  by an ana lys t  on the bas i s  o fsome a pr io r i  theory  had no semant ic  o r  syntact i cmark ing  in  the text .3.2 FRUITFULNESS OF THE ANALYSISA second criterion is whether some postulatedstructure is fruitful in generating further suggestionsfor how to explore the text.
Thus, the tree analyses ofapartment layout descriptions, planning, and explanation,give rise to questions such as how various physical layoutsare turned into trees, how trees are ~raversed, the socialconsequences of particular transfoz~l~ions, the apparentpsychological ease or diff iculty of various transformations,the relation of discourse structure to syntactic structure,etc.
(see Linde and Goguen, 1978) By contrast, anunfruitful analysis wil l  give rise to few or no interestingresearch questions, and wil l  not permit the analyst toinvestigate questions about the discourse unit which he orshe has reason to believe are in,cresting.4.
GENERAL PRINCIPLES OF DISCOURSE STRUCTUREGiven that ~hese postulated structures are useful modelsof what speakers do, we may ask how it is that speakersproduce texts with these structures.
It is known thatchildren must learn to produce well-formed narratives.It might  be hypothesized that each discourse unit mustbe separately learned, and that each has its own unrelatedset of rules.
However, there is evidence that there areverT general rules for discourse construction, which holdacross discourse units, and which can be used ~o const ructnovel discourse units.
The test case for such ahynuthesls is the production of a discourse unlt whlchis not a part of speakers' ordinary repetolre, butrather, is made up for the occasion of the experiment.Such an experiment was performed by asking people todescribe the process of getting themaelves and theirhusbands and children off to work in the morning.
(Linde,in preparation) These "morning routines" are typicallywell-structured and regular; everyone appears to dothem the same way.
We know that the speakers had neverproduced such discourses before, since we never inordinary discourse hear such extended discussions ofthe details of daily llfe.
(Even bores have theirlimits.)
Therefore, the regularities must be theproduct of the intersection of a particular real worlddomain, in this case, multiple parallel activities, withvery general rules for discourse construction.
24.1 META-RULES OF DISCOURSE STRUCTUREWe are by no means ready to offer a single generaltheory of discourse structure; that must wait untila sufficiently large number of discourse types has beeninvestigated in detail.
However, the following ruleshave been observed in two or more discourse units, andit is rules of this type that we would llke to investl-gate in other discourse units.\ [ .
The most frequent subordinator for a givendiscourse unit will have the most minimalmarking in the text, most frequently beingmarked with lexical and.
Moreover, it wil l  notbe necessary to establish this node beforebeginning the first branch, but only when thereturn to the branch point is effected.2.
All other node types which subordinate two ormore branches, such as exclusive or orconditional, must be indicated by markers inthe text before the first branch is begun.3.
Depth-first traversal is the most usual strategy.4.
Pop markers are available to indicate return toa branch point or higher node; it is nevernecessary to recapitulate in reverse the entiretraversal of a branch.Z This is interesting for the light which it sheds onnatural structures for the description of concurrentactivities.365.
CONCLUSIONSThe reason for being interested in regularities of?
discourse structure, particularly regularities which holdacross a number of discourse types, is that they suggestuniversals of what is often called "mind," and, morepractically, they also suggest features which might bepart of systems for language understanding and production.Indeed Welner (to appear) has constructed a system for theproduction of explanations of U.S. income tax law basedon the transformational theory of explanation discussedin section 2.4.
There is, moreover, the possibility ofdesigning meta-systems, which might be programmed tohandle a variety of discourse types.ACKNOWLEDGEMENTSWe would like to thank R. M. Burstall and James Weinerfor their help throughout much of the work reported inthis paper.
We owe our approach to discourse analysisto the work of William Labor, and our basic orientationto Chogyam Trungpa, Rinp~che.REFERF.NCESChafe, Wallace, 1974.
Language and Consciousness.Language.
Vol.
50, 111-133.Goguen, J.A., Charlotte Linde, and James Weiner.
toappear.
The Structure of Natural Explanation.Grosz, Barbara J.
1977.
The Representation and Use 9fFocus in Dialogue Understanding.
SRI Technical Note 151.Hal~iday, M.A.K.
and Ruqaiya N. Hasan, 1976.
Cohesionin English, Longman, London.Labor, William, 1972.
The Transformation of Experienceinto Narrative Syntax, in Language in the Inner City,Philadelphia, University of Pennsylvania Press.Linde, Charlotte, 1974.
The Linguistic Encoding ofSpatial Information.
Columbia University, Department ofLinguistics dissertation.Linde, Charlotte, 1979.
Focus of Attention and the Choiceof Pronouns in Discourse, in Syntax and Sem~ntlcs, Vol.12Discourse and Syntax~ ed.
Talmy Givon, Academic Press,New York.Li~de, Charlotte, 1980a.
The Organization of Discourse,in The English Language in its Social and HistoricalContext ed.
Timothy Shopen, Ann Zwlcky and Peg Griffen,Winthrop Press, Cambridge, Massachusetts.Linde Charlotte, 1980b.
The Life Story: A TemporallyDiscontinuous Discourse Type, in Papers From the KasselWorkshop on Psycholingulstic Models of Production.Linde, Charlotte, in preparation.
The Discourse Structureof the Description of Concurrent Activity.Linde, Charlotte and J.A.
Goguen, 1978.
The Structureof Planning Discourse, Journal of Social and BiologicalStructures, Vol.
\[, 219-251.Linde, Charlotte and William Labor, 1975.
SpatialNetworks as a Site for the Study of Language and Thought,Language , Vol.
51, 924-939.Polanyi, Livia, 1978.
The American Story.
University ofMichigan Department of Linguistics dissertation.Weiner, James, 1979.
The Str~cture of NaturalExplanation: Theory and Application.
SystemDevelopment Corporation, SP-4035.Welner, J. BLAH: A System Which Explains its Reasoning,tO appear in Artificial Intelli~ence.37
