Expanding the Horizons of Natural Language InterfacesPhil HayesComputer Science Department, Carnegie-Mellon UniversityPittsburgh, P A 15213, USAAbst ractCurrent natural language interfaces have concentrated largely ondetermining the literal "meaning" of input from their users.
Whilesuch decoding is an essential underpinning, much recent worksuggests that natural language interlaces will never appearcooperative or graceful unless they also incorporate numerousnon-literal aspects of communication, such as robustcommunication procedures.This toaper defends that view.
but claims that direct imitation ofhuman performance =s not the best way to =mplement many ofthese non-literal aspects of communication; that the newtechnology of powerful personal computers with integral graphicsdisplays offers techniques superior to those of humans for theseaspects, while still satistying human communication needs.
Thepaper proposes interfaces based on a judicious mixture of thesetechniques and the still valuable methods of more traditionalnatural language interfaces.1.
Int roduct ionMost work so far on natural language communication between manand machine has dealt with its literal aspects.
That is.
natural languageinterlaces have implicitly adopted the position that their user's inputencodes a request for intormation of; action, and that their job is tO decodethe request, retrieve the information, or perform the action, and provideappropriate output back to the user.
This is essentially what Thomas \[24Jcnlls the Encoding-Decoding model of conversation.While literal interpretation is a basic underpinning of communication,much recent work in artificial intelligence, linguistics, and related fieldshas shown that it is tar from the whole story in human communication.
Forexample, appropriate interpretation of an utterance depends onassumptions about the speaker's intentions, and conversely, thesl.
)eaker's goals influence what is said (Hobbs \[13J, Thomas \[24\]).
Peopleoften make mistakes in speaking and listening, and so have evolvodconventions for affecting regalrs-(Schegloll et el.
\[20J).
There must alsobe a way of regulating the turns of participants in a conversation (Sacks etel.
\[10t).
This is just a sampling of what we will collectively call non literal~lspects ol communication.The primary reason for using natural language in man-machinecommunication is to allow the user to express himsell mtturallyo andwithout hawng to learn a special language.
However, it is becoming clearthat providing for n,'ttural expression means dealing will1 tile non-literalwell as the literal aspects ol communication; float the ability to interpretnatural language literaUy does not in itself give a man-machine interlacethe ability to communicate naturally.
Some work on incorporating thesenon-literal aspects of communication into man-machine interfaces hasalready begun(\[6, 8, 9, 15, 21, 25\]).The position I wish to stress in this paper is that natural languageinterfaces will never perform acceptably unless they deal with thenon-literal as well as the literal aspects of communication: that without thenon-literal aspects, they will always appear uncooperative, inflexible,unfriendly, and generally stupid to their users, leading to irritation,frustration, and an unwillingness to continue to be a user.This pos=tion is coming to be held fairly widely.
However, I wish to gofurther and suggest that, in building non-literal aspects of communicationinto natural-language interfaces, we should aim for the most effective typeof communication rather than insisting that the interface model humanperformance as exactly as possible.
I believe that these two aims are notnecessarily the same.
especially given certain new technological trends(.lis(J ti ,'~s?~l below.Most attempts to incorporate non-literal aspects of communication intonatural language interlaces have attempted to model human performanceas closely as possible.
The typical mode of communication in such aninterface, in which system and user type alternately on a single scroll ofpager (or scrolled display screen), has been used as an analogy to normalspoken human conversation in Wlllcll contmunicallon takes place over asimilar half-duplex channel, i.e.
a channel that only one party at a timecan use witllout danger of confusion.Technology is outdating this model.
Tl~e nascent generation ofpowerful personal computers (e.g.
the ALTO ~23} or PERQ \[18J) equippedwith high-resolution bit-map graphics display screens and pointingdevices allow the rapid display of large quantities of information and themaintenance of several independent communication channels for bothoutput (division ol the screen into independent windows, highlighting, andother graphics techniques), and input (direction of keyboard input todifferent windows, poinling ,~put).
I believe that this new technology canprovide highly effective, natural language-based, communication betweenman and machine, but only il the half-duplex style of interaction describedabove is dropped.
Rall~er than trying to imitate human convets~mond=rectty, it will be more fruitful to use the capabilities of this newtechnology, whicl~ in some respects exceed those possessed by humans,to achieve the snme ends as the non-literal aspects of normal humanconversation.
Work by.
for instance, Carey \[31 and Hiltz 1121 shows howadaptable people aro to new communication situ~.~tlons, and there is everyreason Io believe that people will adapt well to an interaction in whichtheir communication ne~,ds are satisfied, even if they are satislied in adilterent way than in ordinary human conversation.In the remainder of the paper I will sketch some human communicationneeds, and go on to suggest how they can be satisfied using thetechnology outlined above.2.
Non-Literal Aspects of Communicat ionIn this section we will discuss four human communication needs andtile non-literal aspects of communication they have given rise to:?
non-grammatical utterance recognition?
contextually determined interpretation?
robust communication procedures?
channel sharingThe account here is based in part on work reported more fully in \[8, 9\].Humans must deal with non-grammatical  utterances inconversation simply because DePute produce them all the time.
Theyarise from various sources: people may leave out or swallow words; theymay start to say one thing, stop in the middle, and substitute somethingelse; they may interrupt themselves to correct something they have justsaid; or they may simply make errors of tense, agreement, or vocabulary.For a combination of these and other reasons, it is very rare to see threeconsecutive grammatical sentences in ordinary conversation.Despite the ubiquity of ungrammaticality, it has received very littleattention in the literature or from the implementers of natural-languageinterfaces.
Exceptions include PARRY {17\].
COOP \[14\], and interfacesproduced by the LIFER \[11\] system.
Additional work on parsingungrammatical input has been done by Weischedel and Black \[25\], and71Kwasny and Sandheimer \[15\].
AS part of a larger project on userinterfaces \[ 1 \], we (Hayes and Mouradian \[7\]) have also developed a parsercapable of dealing flexibly with many forms of ungrammaticality.Perhaps part of the reason that flexibility in Darsmg has received solittle attent*on in work on natural language interlaces is thai the input istyped, and so the parsers used have been derived from those used toparse written prose.
Speech parsers (see for example I101 or 126i) havealways been much more Ilexible.
Prose is normally quite grammaticalsimply because the writer has had time to make it grammatical.
The typedinput to a computer system is.
produced in "real time" and is thereforemuch more likely to contain errors or other ungrammaticalities.The listener al any given turn in a conversation does not merely decodeor extract the inherent "meaning" from what the speaker said.
Instead.
lie=nterprets the speaker's utterance in the light at the total avnilable context(see for example.
Hoblo~ \[13\], Thomas \[24J, or Wynn \[27\]).
In cooperativedialogues, and computer interfaces normally operate in a cooperativesituation, this contextua l ly  determined in terpretat ion  allows theparticipants considerable economies in what they say, substitutingpronouns or other anaphonc forms for more complete descriptions, notexplicitly requesting actions or information that they really desire, omittingpart=cipants from descriphons of events, and leaving unsaid otherinformation that will be "obvious" to the listener because of the Contextshared by speaker and listener.
In less cooperative situations, thelistener's interpretations may be other than the speaker intends, andspeakers may compensate for such distortions in the way they constructtheir utterances.While these problems have been studied extensively in more abstractnatural language research (for just a few examples see \[4, 5, 16\]).
littleattention has been paid to them in more applied language wOrk.
The workof Grosz \[6J and Sidner \[21\] on focus of attention and its relation tOanaphora and ellipsis stand out here.
along with work done in the COOP\[14\] system on checking the presuppositions of questions with 8 negativeanswer, in general, contextual interpretation covers most of the work innatural language proces~ng, and subsumes numerous currentlyintractable problems.
It is only tractable in natural language interfaceSbecause at the tight constraints provided by the highly restricted worlds inwhich they operate.Just as in any other communication across a noisy channel, there isalways a basic question in human conversstion of whether the listener hasreceived the speaker's tltterance correctly.
Humans have evolved robustcommunicat ion  conventions for performing such checks withconsiderable, though not complete, reliability, and for correcting errorswhen they Occur (see Schegloff {20i).
Such conventions include: thespeaker assuming an utterance has been heard correctly unless the replycontradicts this assumbtion or there is no reply at all: the speaker trying tocorrect his own errors himself: the listener incorporating h=s assumptionsabout a doubtful utterance into his reply; the listener asking explicitly forclarification when he is sufficiently unsure.This area of robust conimunlcatlon IS porhaps II~e non-literal aspect ofcommumcat~on mOSt neglected in natural language work.
Just a fewsystems such as LIFEPl I t l J  and COOP \[141 have paid even minimalattenhon Io it, Intereshngiy, it ~S perhaps the area in which Ihe newtechnology mentioned above has the most to oiler as we shall see.Fill\[lily.
the SllOken Dart of a humlin conversation takes place over whatis essenllully a s=ngle shared channel.
In oilier words, if more than oneperson talks at once.
no one can understand anything anyone else issaying.
There are marginal exceptions to this.
bul by and largereasonable conversation can only be conducted if iust one person speaksat a time.
Thus people have evolved conventions for channel  shar ing\[19\], so that people can take turns to speak.
Int~.
=.stmgly, if people areput in new communication situations in which the standard turn-takingconventions do not work well.
they appear quite able to evolve newconventions \[3i.AS noted earlier, computer interfaces have sidestepped this problem bymaking the interaction take place over a half-duplex channel somewhatanalogous to the half-duplex channel inherent m sPeech, i.e.
alternateturns at typing on a scroll el paper (or scrolled display screen).
However,rather than prowding flexible conventions for changing turns, such=ntertaces typically brook no interrupt=arts while they are typing, and thenwhen they are finished ins=st that the user type a complete input with nofeedback (apart from character echoing), at which point the system thentakes over the channel again.in the next Section we will examine how the new generation of interfacetechnology can help with some of the problems we have raised.3.
Incorporating Non-Literal Aspects ofCommunication into User InterfacesIf computer interfaces are ever to become cooperative and natural touse, they must incorporate nonoiiteral aspects of communication.
Mymum point in this section is that there =s no reason they shouldincorporate them in a way directly im=tative of humans: so long as they areincorporated m a way that humans are comfortable with.
direct imitation isnot necessary, indeed, direct imitation iS unlikely to produce satislactorymterachon.
Given the present state of natural language processing endartificial intelligence in general, there iS no prospect in the forseeablefuture that interlaces will be able to emulate human performance, sincethis depends so much on bringing to bear larger quantities of knowledgethan current AI techmques are able to handle.
Partial success in suchemulation zs only likely to ra=se lalse expectations in the mind of the user,and when these expectations are inevitably crushed, frustration will result.However, I believe that by making use of some of the new technologyment=oned earlier, interfaces can provide very adequate substitutes forhuman techniques for non-literal aspects of commumcation; substitutesthat capitalzze on capabilities of computers that are not possessed byhumans, bul that nevertheless will result m interaction that feels verynatural to a human.Before giving some examples, let tis review the kind of hardware I amassuming.
The key item is a bit-map graphics display capable of beingtilled with information very quickly.
The screen con be divided intoindependent windows to which the system can direct difterent streams ofOUtput independently.
Windows can be moved around on the screen,overlapped, and PODDed out from under a pile of other windoWs.
The userhas a pointing device with which he can posit=on a cursor to arbitrarypoints on the SCreen, plus, of course, a traditional keyboard.
Suchhardware ex=sts now and will become increasingly available as powerfulpersonal computers such as the PERO \[18J or LISP machine \[2\] comeonto the market and start to decrease in price.
The examDlas of the use ofsuch hardware which follow are drawn in part from our currentexperiments m user interface research {1.
7\] on similar hardware.Perhaps the aspect of communication Ihal can receive the most benefitfrom this type of hardware is robust communication.
Suppose the usertypes a non.grammatical input to the system which the system's flexibleparser is able to recognize if.
say, it inserts a word and makes a spellingcorrection.
Going by human convention the system would either have toask the user to confirm exDlicdly if its correction was correct, tO cleverlyincorDoram ~tS assumption into its next output, or just tO aaaume thecorrection without comment.
Our hypothetical system has another option:it Can alter what the user just typed (possibly highlighting the words that itchanged).
This achieves the same effect as the second optiert above, butsubst=tutes a technological trick for huma intelligencf'Again.
if the user names a person, say "Smith", in a context where thesystem knows about several Smiths with different first names, the humanoot=ons are either to incorporate a list of the names into a sentence (whichbecomes unwmldy when there are many more than three alternatives) orto ask Ior the first name without giving alternatives.
A third alternative,possible only in this new technology, is to set up 8 window on the screen72with an initial piece of text followed by a list ol alternatives (twenty can behandled quite naturally this way).
The user is then free to point at thealternative he intends, a much simpler and more natural alternative thantyping the name.
although there is no reason why this input mode shouldnot be available as well in case the user prefers it.As mentioned in the previous section, contextually based interpretationis important in human conversation because at the economies ofexpression it allows.
There is no need for such economy in an interface'soutput, but the human tendency to economy in this matter is somelhingthat technology cannot change.
The general problem of keeping track offocus of attention in a conversation is a dillicult one (see, for example,Grosz 161 and Sidner \[221), but the type ol interface we are discussing canat least provide a helpful framework in which the current locus ol attentioncan be made explicit.
Different loci at attention can be associated withdifferent windows on tile screen, and the system can indicate what itthinks iS Ihe current lOCUS of .nttention by, say, making the border of thecorresponding window dilferent from nil the rest.
Suppose in the previousexample IIlat at the time the system displays the alternative Smiths.
theuser decides that he needs some other information before he can make aselection.
He might ask Ior this information in a typed request, at whichpoint the system would set up a new window, make it the focused window,and display the requested information in it.
At this point, the user couldinput requests to refine the new information, and any anaphora or ellipsishe used would be handled in the appropriate context.Representing.contexts explicitly with an indication of what the systemthinks is the current one can also prevent confusion.
The system shouldtry to follow a user's shifts of focus automatically, as in the aboveexample.
However, we cannot expect a system of limited understandingalways to track focus shifts correctly, and so it is necessary for the systemto give explicit feedback on what it thinks the shift was.
Naturally, thisimplies that the user should be able to change focus explicitly as well asimplicitly (probably by pointing to the appropriate window).Explicit representation of loci can also be used to bolster a human'slimited ability to keep track of several independent contexts.
In theexample above, it would not have been hard lot the user to remember whyhe asked for the additional information and to return and make theselection alter he had received that information.
With many more thantwo contexts, however, people quickly lose track of where they are andwhat they are doing.
Explicit representation of all the possibly active tasksor contexts can help a user keep things straight.All the examples of how sophisticated interface hardware can helpprovide non-literal aspects of communication have depended on theability of the underlying system to produce pos~bly large volumes ofoutput rapidly at arbitrary points on the screen.
In effect, this allows thesystem multiple output channels independent of the user's typed input,which can still be echoed even while the system is producing other output,Potentially, this frees interaction over such an interface from anyturn-taking discipline.
In practice, some will probably be needed to avoidconfusing the user with too many things going on at once, but it canprobably be looser than that found in human conversations.As a final point, I should stress that natural language capability is stillextremely valuable for such an interface.
While pointing input is extremelyfast and natural when the object or operation that the user wishes tOidentify is on the screen, it obviously cannot be used when the informationis not there.
Hierarchical menu systems, in which the selection of oneitem in a menu results in the display of another more detailed menu, candeal with this problem to some extent, but the descriptive power andconceptual operators ol nalural language (or an artificial language withs=milar characteristics) provide greater flexit)ility and range of expression.II the range oI options =.~ larg~;, t)ul w,dl (tiscr,nm;de(I, il =s (llh.~l easier tospecify a selection by description than by pointing, no matter how ctevedytile options are organized.4.
ConclusionIn this paper, 1 have taken the position that natural language interfacesto computer systems will never be truly natural until they includenon-literal as web as literal aspects of communication.
Further, I claimedthat in the light of the new technology of powerful personal computerswith integral graphics displays, the best way to incorporate thesenon-literal aspects was nol to imitate human conversational patterns asclosely as possible, but to use the technology in innovative ways toperform the same function as the non-literal aspects of communicationfound in human conversation.In any case, I believe the old-style natural language interfaces in whichthe user and system take turns to type on a single scroll of paper (orscrolled display screen) are doomed.
The new technology can be used, inways similar to those outlined above, to provide very convenient andattractive interfaces that do not deal with natural language.
Theadvantages of this type ol interface will so dominate those associated withthe old-style natural language interfaces that continued work in that areawill become ol academic interest only.That is the challenge posed by the new technology for natural languageinterfaces, but it also holds a promise.
The promise is that a combinationof natural language techniques with the new technology will result ininterfaces that will be truly natural, flexible, and graceful in theirinteraction.
The multiple channels of information flow provided by thenew technology can be used to circumvent many of the areas where it isvery hard to give computers the intelligence and knowledge to perform aswell as humans.
In short, the way forward for natural language interfacesis not to strive for closer, but still highly imperfect, imitation of humanbehaviour, but tO combine the strengths of the new technology with thegreat human ability to adapt to communication environments which arenovel but adequate for their needs.References1.
Ball, J. E. and Hayes, P. J.
Representation of Task-independentKnowledge in a Gracefully Interacting User Interface, Tech.
Rept.,Carnegie-Mellon UniverSity Computer Science Department, 1980.2.
Bawden.
A, et al Lisp Machine Project Report.
AIM 444, MIT AI Lab,Cambridge, Mass., August, 1977.3.
Carey, J.
"A Primer on Interactive Television."
J.
University FilmAssoc.
XXX, 2 (1978), 35-39.4.
Charniak, E. C. Toward a Model of Children's Story Comprehension.TR-266, MIT AI Lab, Cambridge, Mass., 1972.5.
Cullingford.
R. Script Application: Computer Understanding ofNewspaper Stories.
Ph.D.
Th., Computer Science Dept., Yale University,1978.6.
Grosz, B. J.
The Representation and Use of Focus in a System forUnderstanding Dialogues.
Proc.
Fifth Int.
Jr. Conf.
on ArtificialIntelligence, MIT, 1977, pp.
67-76.7.
Hayes, P. J. and Mouradian, G. V. Flexible Parsing.
Proc.
of 18thAnnual Meeting of the ASSOC.
for Comput.
Ling., Philadelphia, June, 1980.8.
Hayes, P. J., and Reddy, R. Graceful Interaction in Man-MachineCommunication.
Proc.
Sixth Int.
Jr. Conf.
on Artificial Intelligence, Tokyo,1979, pp.
372-374.9.
Hayes, P. J., and Reddy, R. An Anatomy of Graceful Interaction inMan-Machine Communication.
Tech.
report, Computer ScienceDepartment, Carnegie-Mellon University, 1979.7310.
Hayes-Roth, F., Erman, L. D.. Fox.
M., and Mostow, D. J. SyntacticProcessing in HEARSAY-H Speech Understanding Systems.
Summary OfResults at the Five-Year Research Effort at Carnegie-Mellon University,Carnegie-Mellon Universdy Computer Science Department, 1976.11.
Hendr=x, G. G. Human Engineering for Applied Natural LanguageProcessing Proc.
Fifth Int Jr. Conl.
on Artificial Intelligence, MIT, 1977,DD.
183-191.1 2.
Hiltz, S. R. Johnson.
K.. Aronovitch, C., and Turoft.
M. Face toFace vs.
Computerized Conterences: A Controlled Experiment.unpublished mss.13.
Hobbs.
J. R. ConversuhOn as Planned Behavior.
Technical Note203.
Artificial Intelligence Center, SRi International, Menlo Park, Ca..1979.14.
KaDlan.
S.J.
Cooperative Responses Irorn a PortaDie NaturalLanguage Data Base Query System.
Ph.D. Th.. Dept.
of Computer and.Inlormation Science.
Univers, ty o!
Pennsylvania.
Philadelphia.
1979.15.
Kwasny.
S. C. and Sondheimer.
N. K. Ungrammaticatity andExtra-GrammatJcality in Natural Language Understanding Systems.
Pro?.of 17th Annual Meeting of the Assoc.
tot Comgut.
Ling.. La Jolla.
Ca..August.
1979.
I~P.
19-23.16.
Levin.
J.
A.. and Moore.
J.
A.
"Dialogue Games:Meta-Commun=cation Structures for Natural Language Understanding.
"Cognitive Scmnce 1.4 (1977).
395-420.17.
Parkison.
R. C.. Colby.
K. M.. and Faught.
W.S.
"ConversationalLanguage Comprehension Using Integrated Pattern-Matching andParsing."
Art#icaal Intelligence 9 (1977).
111-134.18.
PERQ.
Three Rivers Computer Corl~.. 160 N. Craig St.. Pittsburgh.PA 15213..19.
Sacks.
H.. Schegloff.
E. A.. and Jefferson.
G. "A S iml~tSemantics for the Organization of Turn-Taking tar Conversation.
"Language 50.4 (1974).
696-735.20.
Schegloff.
E. A.. Jefferson.
G.. and Sacks.
H. "The Preference forSelf-Correction in the Organization of Repair in Conversation."
Language53.2 (1977).
361-382.21.
Sidner.
C. L. A ProgreSS Report on the Discourse and ReferenceComponents of PAL.
A. I.
Memo.
468.
MIT A. I.
Lab.. 1978.22.
Sidner.
C. L. Towards a Computational Theory of Definite AnaphoreComprehension in English Discourse.
TR 537.
MIT AI Lab.
Cambridge.Mass.. 1979.23.
Thacker~ C.P.. McCreight.
E.M. Lamgson.
B.W.. Sproull.
R.F.. andBoggs.
D.R.
Alto: A Dersonal computer, in Computer Structures:Readings ancf Examples.
McGraw-Hill.
1980.
Edited by D. S~ewiorek.
C.GoBell.
and A. Newell.
second edition, in press.24.
Thomas, J. C. "A Design-Interpretation of Natural English withApplications to Man-Computer In|erection."
Int.
J. Man.Machine Studiest0 (1978).
651-668.25.
Welschedel.
R M. and Black.
J.
Responding Io PotentiallyUnparseable Sentences.
Tech Rapt.
79/3.
Dept.
of Computer andIntormatlon Sciences.
Universaty o!
Delaware.
1979.26.
Woods.
W. A.. Bates.
M.. Brown.
G.. Bruce.
B.. Cook.
C..
Klovsted.J., Makhoul.
J.. Nash-Webber, B.. Schwartz.
R.. Wall, J.. and Zue, V.Speech Understanding Systems - Final Technical Report.
Tech.
Rept.3438.
Bolt, Beranek.
and Newman, Inc., 1976.74
