WORD, PHRASE AND SENTENCEKob't F. SinnnonsUniv.
of Texas, AustinAmong the relative verities of natural languageprocessing are the facts that morphemes and words areprimary semantic units, and that their co-ocurrence inphrases and sentences provides cues for selecting sensemeanings.
In this session, two psycholinguistics tud ies  show some aspects  of how human sub jec ts  processwords wh i le  read ing .
A study of medical  vocabu laryshows that  medical  words are h igh ly  assoc ia ted  byco-occurrance in  medical  de f in i t ions .
Another repor tshews the e f fec t iveness  of keyword ident i f i ca t ion  andse lec t ion  of prominent sentences  to o rgan ize  abst rac tsfor  re t r ieva l .A f i f th  study argues that  ana lys i s  of ex i s t ing  natura llanguage d ic t ionar ies  can be expected to cont r ibuteimpor tant ly  to what i s  needed for  text  unders tand ingprograms.
The f ina l  study i s  an exper iment w i th  asentence leve l  t rans la tor  app l ied  to a la rgeGerman-Engl ish t rans la t ion  task .
These two s tud ies  arepr imar i l y  concerned wi th  ana lys i s  of language a t  thesentence leve l .The most glamourous areas  of natura l  language researchare  at  leve ls  above the sentence,  concerned wi thd ia logues  and d i scourse ,  f requent ly  d i sda in fu l  ofmorpho log ica l  or even grammatical  ana lys i s  in  the i rsearch for  e f fec t ive  s t ruc tures  for  unders tand ing  whatthe d i scourse  i s  about.
Scr ip ts ,  f rames,  s te reotypes ,schemas are a l l  s tud ied  in  these areas ;  and o f tenmorpholog ica l  and gra~nat ica l  ana lys i s  i s  bypassed infavor  of keyword scanning to ext rac t  some smal lre levant  por t ion  of the text  to be bound as va lues  fors lo ts  in  these la rger  data forms.This sess ion  reminds us that  much can be accompl ishedwi th  vocabu lary  ana lys i s ,  wi th  keyword scanning andstatistical treatment of text and with semanticanalysis at the single sentence level.
Yet, withregard to most of the topics in this and othersessions, there is a stronK sense of de~a vu; theearliest natural language studies featured automaticextracting and information retrieval based onstatistical, lexical and associational properties ofkeywords.
Mechanical translation of sentences withoutregard for larger contexts marked the late sixties highpoint of MT research amid contemporaneous studies ofthe English dictionary and thesaurus.
Competitionamong sentence parsing algorithms is an ACL traditioncelebrated annually, while psycholinguistics hastraditionally applied chronometric studies, andrecordings of eye movements to measure this or thataspect of human linguistic processing throughout theper iod .This is not to suggest that nothing new is happening;actually, the continued emphasis on these topicsreveals that, though introduced early, they are stillimperfectly understood.
Z believe science progressesin spirals; initial studies are accomplished andpublished supporting more advanced studies that buildupon the findings of the earlier work.
Superstructuresof theory are constructed and more work is undertakenin this framework.
Finally the initial studies arel os t  in  years  of accumulated l i te ra ture ,  and perhapssome of the w i ldes t  theor ies  begin to co l lapse .
Thenthe f ie ld  may suddenly show renewed in teres t  in  i t sbeginnings and repeat its early studies with the addedsophistication gained by experience.
At this time theline of history spirals past the points it reached onearlier cycles.
Hopefully, as in this session, theexperience gained between cycles insures an upwardprogression rather than a profitless loop.145
