PROSPECTS mOR PRACTICAL NATURAL LANGUAGE SYSTEMSLarry R. HarrisArti f icial  Intel l igence Corporat ionNewton Centre, ~ass.
02159As the author of a "practical" NL data basequery system, one of the suggested topics forthis panel is of part icular interest to me.The issue of what hurdles remain before NLsystems become practical  strikes part icularyclose to home.
%s someone with a morepragmatic view of NL processing, my feelingis, not surprisingly, that we already have thecapabi l i ty to construct practical  ~:L systems.Signif icant enhancement of exist ing man-machine communicat ion is possible within thecurrent NL techno logy  if we set our sightsappropriately and are wil l ing to take theaddit ional effort to craft systems actual lyworthy of being used.
The missing link isn'ta utopian parsing algor i thm yet to bediscovered.
The hurdles to practical  NLsystems are of a much more conventionalvariety that require, as Edison said, moreperspirat ion than inspiration.It should be clear that none of my remarksconfl ict with the obvious fact that NLresearch has miles to go and that there areinnumerable unresolved issues that wil lcontinue to require research beyond theforeseeable future.
Our understanding of NLhas merely scratched the surface, and it isfair to say that we don't even understand whatall the problems are, muchless their solution.But by using the powerful techniques that havealready resulted from NL research in extremelyrestr icted micro-wor lds it is possible toattain a high enough level of performance tobe of practical value to a signif icant usercommunity.
It is these highly special izedsystems that can be made practical  using theexist ing technology.I wil l  not speculate on when a general NLcapabil i ty wil l  become practical, nor wil l  Ispeculate on whether the creation of practicalspecial ized systems wil l  contribute to thecreation of a more general capabil ity.
Thefact that there is a clear need for improvedman-machine communicat ion and that currentspecial ized systems can be bui lt  to meet thatneed, is reason enough to construct them.The issue of whether pract ical  special ized NLsystems can now be bui lt  is, in my opinion,not a debatable issue.
Those of us on thispanel and other researchers in the field,simply don't have the right to determinewhether a system is practical.
Only the usersof such a system can make that determination.Only a user can decide whether the NLcapabi l i ty constitutes suff ic ient added valueto be deemed practical.
Only a user candecide if the system's frequency ofinappropriate response is suff ic ient ly low tobe deemed practical.
Only a user can decidewhether the overal l  NL interaction, taken intoto, offers enough benefits over alternativeformal interactions to be deemed practical.If we accept my point that pract ical i ty  is inthe eyes of the user, then we are led to theinescapable conclusion that pract ical  NLsystems can now be built, because severalcommercial users of such a system \[Pruitt,O'Donnel\] have gone on record stating that theNL capabi l i ty within the confines of data basequery is of s ignif icant practical  value intheir environment.
These statements plus thefact that a substantial  body of users employNL data base query in dai ly productive useclearly meets the spir it  of a "practical" NLsystem.The main point of my remarks is not to debatethe semantics of practical ity,  but to pointout that whatever level of ut i l i ty has beenachieved, is due only in small part to thesophist icat ion of the NL component.
Theut i l i ty comes pr imari ly from a custom fitt ingof the NL component to the exact requirementsof the domain; and from the painstakingcraft ing of the lexicon and grammar to achievetha necessary density of l inguist ic coverage.In a sense, pract ical i ty  is derived from apragmatic approach that emphasizes properperformance on the vast bulk of ratheruninterest ing dialog, rather than focusing onthe much smaller port ion of intel lectual lychal lenging input.
A NL system that isextrememly robust within wel l -def inedl imitations is far more practical  than asystem of greater sophist icat ion that haslarge qaps in the coveraqe.~ttaining this required level of robustnessand density of l inguistic coverage is notnecessari ly as intel lectual ly chal lenging asbasic research, nor is it necessari ly evenworthy of publ ication.
But let's not kidourselves -- it is absolutely necessary toachieve a practical  capabil ity!
It has neverbeen clear to me that members of the ACL wereinterested in pract ical  NL systems, nor is itclear that they should be.
But I think that itis fair to say that there aren't manypract ical  NL systems because there aren't verymany people trying to build them!
I wouldestimate, on the basis of my experience, thatit takes an absolute minimum of 2 years, andprobably more like 3 years, to bring asuccessful research prototype NL system to thelevel of practical ity.
This "development"process is well  known in virtual ly allscientif ic and engineering discipl ines.
It isonly our naivete of software engineering thatcauses us to underest imate the magnitude ofthis process.
I 'm afraid the prospects forpract ical  NL systems look bleak as long as wehave many NL researchers and few NLdevelopers.Pruitt, J., "~ user's experience with ROBOT,"Proceedings of the Fourth Annual ADABASrJser's Meeting, April, 1977.O'Donnell,  J., "Experience with ROBOT atDuPont," Natural Computer Conference Panel,May, 1980.129
