WHAT DISCOURSE FEATURES AREN'T NEEDED IN ON-LINE DIALOGUEEleanor WynnXerox Office Products DivisionPalo Alto, CaliforniaIt is very interesting as a social observer to trackthe development of computer scientists involved in AIand natural language-related research in theoreticalissues of mutual concern to computer science and thesocial study of language use.
The necessity of writingprograms that demonstrate the validity or invalidity ofconceptualizations and assumptions has caused computerscientists to cover a lot of theoretical ground in avery short time, or at least to arrive at a problemarea, and to see the problem fairly clearly, that isvery contemporary in social theory.
There is in facta discrepancy between the level of sophisticationexhibited in locating the problem area (forced by thespecific constraints of programming work) and in thetheorizations concocted to solve the problem.
Thuswe find computer scientists and students of language usefrom several disciplines converging in their interestin the mechanics and metaphysics of social interactionand specifically its linguistic realization.
Attemptsto write natural language programs delivered the reali-zation that even so basic a feature as nominal referenceis no simple thing.
In order to give an "understander"the wherewithal ~o answer simple questions about a text,one had to provide it with an organized world in whichassumptions are inferred, in which exchanges are treatedas part of a coherent and minim-fly redundant text, inwhich things allow for certain actions and relations andnot others, and for which it is unclear how to store theinformation about the world in such a way that it isaccessible for all its possible purposes and deliveredup in an appropriate way.
Some of these were providahleand some weren't.
Some AI workers have already movedinto the phenomenological perspective, Just from con-fronting these problems -- a long way to go from theassumptions of m~thematics, science, and engineeringthat they originally brought to the task.Others, in their attempts to deal with issues of repre-sentation and motivation in discourse, have startedrecreating segments of the history of social theory.This is the history and perspective that students ofsocial interaction bring with them to the problem.
Theyarrive at the problem area either through a theoreticalevolutionary process in which they reject the previousstage of theory, and interaction is a good demonstrationof the limitations of that theory, or because they aresimply intrigued by observing the wealth of socialaction with which they can identify as members, that thestudy of naturally-occuring discourse provides.In social theory, the ethnomethodological perspectivearose as a response to the:i) political implications2) reifications3) unexamined assumptions~) narrow filter on observationpresented by structural-functionalist theory,This theory :I) limits and constructs observation fairly strictly2) Justifies the status quo (whatever exists servesa survival function)3) posits a macro-organization (well-definedinstitutions and roles)~) uses platonic idealizations of the social order5) is normative6) doesn't explain change very well87Difficulties in this theory were in part an artifact ofa general positivist-scien%istic orientation in whichthere was a motivation to treat the social world as ascientific.object and hence to structure the descript-ion of it in such a way as to make the social worldamenable to prediction, testing and control.
Theethnomethodological or phenomenological perspectivedoes not give up the scientific pretension but it doesdrop the engineering motivation.
A world whose modusoperandi (to avoid saying rules) or practices are con-stantly beir~ created on the spot and which, thoughfollowing along recognizable tracks, is in a constantstate of invention and confirmation, lends itself farless to prediction.
In fact it is clearly unpredictable.Language itself provides an analogy, though it is partlythe character of language that allows for the constantstate of invention in the social world.
Languagechanges constantly by means of several mechanisms, amongwhich are phonological drift, usage requirements, meta-phorization, and social emulation based on values andfashions.
For theoretical purposes, one of the mostvaluable findings in Labor's landmark quantitativestudies of phonological variation, was that socialvalues drive the distribution of optional variants fromone speech occasion to another accorcling to the per-ceived formality of the occasion.
In this manner,values -- what individuals at different social levelsconsider to be prestigious articulations, drive phono-logical change in general.
Linguistic fashions them-selves also change in response to what is currentlyused, and change with or ngainst the majority accordingto the kind of identification desired to be made.
Theycannot be predicted in advance as such changes in valueare typically discovered not planned.
Very oftenchanges in language use are derivative, based on asecondary or marginal meaning or usnge, or discoveredanalogy or metaphor of some existing locution.
Thus adynamic of social contrasts and identifications, as wellas social mobility and a~p~rations thereto, as well associally situated invention, are deeply connected tolinguistic issues, including language change and theconcept of distribution rules, in an empirically observ-able and countable way.
These and other social dynamicsoperate no less for more complex discourse phenomena,and account for large portions of observed discoursestrategies.Generally, when a sociolinguist, sociologist, or anthro-pglogist looks at language use, what they attend to arethe disclosed social practices.
Being aware of, andfocussing on social context, with a history of socialtheor2 or an historically developed set of concepts forsocial action in mind, aleL~s one to many attributes ofthe occasion for interaction: the possible socialidentities and relationships of the participants, theperceived outcomes and the social significance of mean-ings generated in the course of the interaction, as wellas to structural and habitual features that reflectsocial requirements (viz.
the "recognition" requirementas a prerequisite to interaction *s taking place at allor in the particular form, as discussed by Schegloff).The fact that a background of shared knowledge about theworld is assumed emerges from an examination of what isexplicitly stated and from the observation that what isexplici?
is in some way "incomplete", partial, not afull itemization of what is communicated and understood.It is also the case that to spell out all the assump-tions would be unbearably time-consumihg, redundant tothe purpose, boring, and possibly an infinite regress;and this practice wot Ld moreover fail to accomplish allthose conversational _ urposes which require negotiation,building up to a point of mutual orientation and accord,or the "use" of one person by another for a real orimaginary gain.
(cf Si~nel)The messiness, potential ambiguity, implicitness, etc.of natural conversation serve many of the purposes thatactors have, including the one of intimacy and mutual-ity by less and less explicit surface discourse.Herein lies an important distinction, one that is notwell perceived by workers in AI.
Purposes can be, andtypically are discovered in the course of interactionrather than planned.
Purposes are thus emergent frominteraction rather than apriori organizing principlesof it.Attempting to code, catalogue, regulate, formalize, makeexplicit in advance those purposes is reminiscent ofstructuralist, positivist social theory.
To this extent,computer scientists are recreating social theory, start-ing from the point that is most amenable to their hopesand needs, and so far lacking the dialectic that con-textualizes other developments in social theory.Ontogeny has not yet fully recapitulated phylogeny.Extending the plans, goals, frames notion into the widersocial world (wider than a story understander), con-stitutes a platonic idealization and the ensuing problemof locating those idealizations somewhere, as if therewere large programs running in our heads (some of whichneed debugging), or as if there were some accessiblepool of norms from which we draw each time we act.
Itposits that we act out these idealizations in our every-day behavior, that our behavior constitutes realizedinstances of this structure.
This conflicts with a"process" notion of interaction, which careful discourseanalysis reveals, whereby participants are continuallytrying out and signalling their participation in amutual world, presumably because this is not from oneinstance to the next pre-given.
The great revelation ofdiscourse analysis in general, if I may he so sweeping,is the ability to observe the process of social action,whereby the social world is essentially built up anewfor the purpose at hand, and interactants can be seensorting out the agreed-on premises from those that needto be established between them.There are two kinds of concerns here that bear upon on-line dialogue research.
One is the notion of person,social identity, etc.
The other is the notion ofinteraction as a reality testing mechanism that groundsthe individual in a chosen point of view frem among themany interpretations available to him for any given"event'.
Both of these notions differentiate the com-puter from a person as an interactant.
Sorting outdialogue issues that embody these notions, narrows downthe field of concerns that are relevant for building"robust" on-line dialogue systems.All social systems, including non-human ones, displaysocial differentiation.
This is a central notion thatthe AI path of evolution does not bring to the study, ofdiscourse.
On the contrary, discourse problems aretreated as if there were a universality among potentialinteractants.
This fits very nicely w/th a platonicperspective.
K_ling and Scacchi have referred to this asthe rationalist perspective, and they c?te claims madefor simulation and modelling as their illustration ofhow exponents of this perspective fail to make even grosssocial distinctions:"Neglecting the obiter dicta claim that modelling andsimulation ~-e 'applicable to essentially all problem-solving and d~:ision-m&xing,' presumably includingethical decisions, one is left with an odd account ofthe problem of modelling.
Models are 'far from ubiqui-tous' and 'the trouble is' they are difficult and costlyto develop and use.
But the appropriateness of modell-ing is not linked by (rational perspectivists) to anydiscernible social setting or the interests of itsparticipants.
(Their) claims are not aimed at policy-making in particular.
They could include simulations88for engineering design as well as for projecting thecosts of new urban development.
However, theirco-,,ents typify the rational perspective when it isapplied to information systems in policy-making; thepresumption is that d i f fe rences  in soc ia l  se t t ings  makeno d i f fe rence .
"Work in socio-linguistics, on the other hand, hasfocussed on how speech varies by situation, by relation-ship, by purpose and by many other constraints that de-pend upon both a typification of the other from acomplex set of loose attributes and the discovery of hisunique behavior ~n the situation.
The notion of alinguistic "repertoire" expresses people's demonstratedability and propensity to adjust their speech at almostevery analytic level, down to the phonology, to theirperception of the situation and the audience.
There arevariations in people's skill at this, but all do it.
Tothe extent that they don't do it, they risk being in-appropriate and not getting rewards from interaction.
(see F. Erickson for a study of the outcomes of inter-active strategies in ethnically mixed interactions.
)The structuralist perspective again may be an appealingway for computer scientists to approach the problem ofdifferentiation of persons, as it posits an essentiallylimited set of "roles" of fairly fixed attributes, andposits as well an ordered hierarchical arrangement ofthose roles.
With this framework in mind it is rela-tively easier to imagine a computer as a viable partici-pant in a social interaction, as it should be possibleto construct an identifiable role for it.
With thisrather flat view of human social perception it is alsopossible to imagine a person requiring of a computerthat it behave appropriately in a conversation , withoutregard for the fact that a computer 6an only satisfy avery limited set of purposes for that person in inter-action.
In fact people know perfectly well many of thethings computers can't do for them or to them, thingswhich other people can do and hence which need to betaken into account in dealing with other people.
Andthey are able to differentiate for the purpose of inter-action among infinitely many people, and states of mindor situation those people can be in.The other feature of interaction between people, reality-testing, is less well understood than differentiation,which is a veritable solid ground of social understand-ing.
However, it can be seen in interactions, even verysimple task-oriented ones such as I described in mythesis, that people are also always accessing each otherfor a view of the world, for agreement, disagreement,and a framework for interpreting.
Diffuse explanationmechanisms(Wynn, 1979) also exhibit the tendency ofspeaker to nail down the audience's perception of him-self to the framework of interpretation desired by him,as an implicit acknowledgement of possible variance.What is often uncertain in an actor's "model" or pro-Jection, or understanding of the other participants orobservers, is their view of the actor himself.
To thisend, he fills in and guides the interpretation withadditional context any time he perceives an occasion formisinterpretation, sometimes to the point of logicalabsurdity (but ~ractical appropriateness if notnecessity).since a computer is not an actor in the social world,its interpretations, both of oneself and of "events"perceived social phenomena-- don't really count.
A com-puter can provide facts about the world within a well-understood framework, but it cannot provide the kind ofcontext that comes from being a participant in sociallife, nor a validation of another's perception, exceptto the extent that matters of "fact" or true-false dis-tinctions allow this.
And in these cases, the personsupplies this validation himself from the information.This may be a moot point, but I maintain that the searchfor agreement, confirmation, etc., and the relatedsearch for common ground or reality are basic motivesfor interaction, along with confirmations of member-ship and solidarity etc., as described in the work ofSchegloff and of much earlier writers like Malinowskiand Si~nnel.Rather than working from careful and detailed observa-tions of the real world, excepting such innovators asGrosz and Robinson, many computer scientists exhibit atendency to develop their "'models" of interaction byconceptualizing from the perspective of the machine andits capabilities or possible capabilities.
Discoursefeatures may be selected for attention and speculationbecause they offer either a machine analog or a machinecontrast.
Thus we people are attributed informationstructures, search procedures and other constructs whichare handy metaphors from the realm of computerdom; andit would be especially handy if we were in fact con-structed according to these clean notions, so that ourthinking and behavior could he modelled.
(In all fair-ness, I know computers have "guys" running aroundinside them, "going" places, "looking for" stuff, tryingout things, getting excited or upset, going nuts, givingup, etc.
)Working from the machine perspective can lead to somegross observational oversights, and the authors of theoversight I've picked as an example will hopefully in-dulge me.
The implicit confirmationhypothesis (Hayesand Reddy) could never have been hypothesized by anyonewho studies language behavior from a social perspective,as one of the oldest conversational observations aroundis the explicit confirmation observation.
The phaticcommunion notion is over 30 years old, and is perhapsthe first attention given to those features of inter-action whichwere initially considered to carry little orno observable propositional content or information.Included in these hehaviorsare those discourse "fillers"that signal to the speaker he is being received with noproblem, that the listener is still paying attention(even more basic than confirming), and that the listeneris a participant in the rhythm of the interaction eventhough'he is producing little speech at the moment.
The"rights" and "~ehhehheh's" of the current natural con-versation transcription conventions are absolutely per-vasive and omnipresent.
Nods, "hm's", gaze, promptquestions, frowns, smiles, exclamations of wonder, areall explicit confirmation devices constantly used inconversation, and occur especiallywhennew propositionsor details essential to building a story are presented.Speakers are also often tentative and reformulate at anyevidence of withheld confirmation, like a "blank stare"or a frown from the audience.Therefore it is by no means ungraceful to explicitlyconfirm, and on the other hand, it takes very little todo so.
But the point is this: even if the implicit con-firmation hypothesis were true (and I pick it becauseit is an available ex-mple and very easy to reject--other notions would do a~ well but require a moredetailed attack), it would be no reason to exclude thisfeature from a com~uter dialogue nor to suppose that itwould pose people any difficulty in handling a d/aloguewith a machine.
The discourse supporting activities ofnatural conversation always address practical concerns,If a new concern should 8/'isebecause of newconstraints--e.g.
that the interactant is a machine--these will beincorporated in the ongoing details of communication.For instance~ when it is obvious someone is having diffi-culty speakin- and understanding English, we unhesita-tingly drop all ellipsis and give full articulation ofevery sound, even though this produces great redundancyin the message for purposes of communicating withanother native speaker, and is moreover extremelyunhabitual.89In fact, the social role of the computer is perhapsmost like that of a foreigner.
We assume a foreignindividual w~ose English is poor to have an abil ityto communicate, perhaps a rudimentary ~Ta-..a~ andvocahuis/'y of our language, and a set of customs,some of which overlap with ours.
But we can't takethe specifics of any of these things for granted.There is very l ittle in the way of a background ofpractices or assumptions to work with.
But here theanalogy ends.Presumably, we won't be going to on-l ine dia)ogueprograms to chit-chat.
The purposes will be fairlywell-defined and circumscribed.
People will interactwith a computer:i) because there is no person available2) because there is l im/ted social confront inaccessing expert information from a computer,so it is available in a metaphorical sense3) because the computer has specialized abil it iesand resources not found in a single individual4) because it coordinates non- local information and5) is maximally up-to-date -- changes in status andthe news of this are concurrently available and6) the outcome of one's own interaction with thesystem may be anim~ediately registered action,like reserving a space and hence making one lessspace available to subsequent users7) because actual searching (as opposed to themetaphoric kind attributed to our minds bycognitive scientists) of a large database maybe required and the computer is much betterand faster at this than we are.In other words, our reasons, certainly our most solidan d fulf i l!able reasons, for conSUlting compu~ersandengaging in discourse with them wil l  beto find outthings relating to a framework we already have.
Thecomputer needs to know a few things about us andespecially our language, and especially needs to knowhow to ask usto clarify what we said, even to presentmenus of in~entions for us to choose from as a responseto something unexecutable by it.
But more than anything,it needs to be able to make its structure of informa-tion clear to us.
In this sense it wil l  satisfycertain "person- properties -- we have working notionsof at least the parameters and starting points fornegotiation with people.
Whereas with computers wehave at best an entry strategy for an unfamiliarsystem, but very little to go on in common knowledgefor assessing its informedness or even consistency.So on-line dialogue should not be like person-to-persondialogue in many respects.
For instance, being overlyexplicit with a person is an indication of a Jud~aentwe have made about their competence, This Judgment isquite likely to be offensive if it's wrong.
(Sehegloff)This is not l ikely to be a problem with a computer froman experiential social action point of view.
Who caresif the computer cannot perceive that we are competentmembers of some social category defined bya more orless common body of knowledge: We will have no proble~in tell ing it what level to address in dealing with us,if it has any such levels of explicitness, nor in gear-ing our own remarks to the appropriate level once wefind out what it can digest.
On-line dialogue systemstherefore have an ongoing task of representing th~ -selves, not the whole interactive world; and designersneed not concern themselves so much with providing theirsystems with models of users, but rather providing userswithFlear models of the system they are interactingwith.
These are the major concerns, obviously.I w ish  I cou ld  now de l iver  the  par~ o f  the  paper  thatyou ,  d be o f  most  in teres t :  what a d ia logue  sys temshould contain and how it can m~ke available thosecontents in order to realize the purposes Just stated.Instead I have addressed myself  to what look likecommon fallacies that I see in attempting to incorpor-porate natural language dialogue issues into computerdialogue issues without access to the social under-stand/rigs embedded in social interaction research.90
