SHOULD COMPUTERS WRITE SPOKEN LANGUAGE?Wallace L. ChafeUniversity of California, BerkeleyRecently there has developed a great deal of interest inthe differences between written and spoken language.
Ijoined this trend a l ittle more than a year ago, and havebeen exploring not only what the specific dif ferences are,but also the reasons why they might exist.
The approachI have taken has been to look for differences between thesituations and processes involved in speaking on the onehand and writ ing on the other, and to speculate on howthose differences might be responsible for the observabledifferences in the output, ~at  happens when we writeand what happens when we speak are different things, bothpsychological ly and socially, and I have been trying tosee how what we do in the two situations leads to thespecific things that we find in writ ing and speaking.I occasional ly interact with the UNIX computer system atBerkeley, for various purposes.
In the context of myconcern about differences between writ ing and speaking, Ihave begun to wonder whether the kind of corm~unication weare used to receiving from computers is more like writ ingor speaking.
You may think that computers obviouslywrite to us.
They send us messages that we can read offof a cathode ray tube, or that get printed out for us ona piece of paper.
In that respect what computers produceis written language.
But it comes at us in a way that isvery different from the way written language usually does.Usually we are faced with a printed page on which thewrit ing is all there, and has been there for a long time.The temporal process by which the writ ing was put therehas absolutely no relevance to us as we peruse the pageat our leisure.
The timing of our reading is in no waycontrol led by the timing by which the words were enteredon the page.
My computer terminal, on the other hand,is steadily chugging away, producing language before myeyes at the rate of 30 characters a second.
Under somecircumstances I could wait until it had produced a wholepage before I began to read.
But I don't usually dothat.
I eagerly follow the steady flow of letters asthey appear, Just as I would eagerly l isten to the spokensounds of someone who was tell ing me something I wantedto know.
This processing in real time seems in that re-spect more like spoken language, although what is beingproduced is written.
Furthermore, the computer systemand I often, indeed characterist ical ly, engage in quickexchanges, much like conversations, which is not what Iam accustomed to doing with written language.
So I wantto suggest that when it is looked at from the point ofview of the dichotomy between written and spoken language,the computer language we normally deal with is neitherfish nor foul.
It is produced in written form, but onthe other hand it is produced in real time, and we areable to respond and interact as we are not able to dowith a printed page.Recent work seems to have shown that there are a numberof features which are characterist ic of spoken language,and a number of other features characterist ic of written.It is not that spoken language never contains any of thefeatures of writtenness, or that written language nevercontains any of the features of spokenness.
It is onlythat certain features tend to be associated with one orthe other medium, and that the features become morepolarized as one approaches the extremes of col loquial-ness on the one hand, or of l i terariness on the other.In between one finds various mixtures of l iterary talkand conversational writing.In looking for reasons why these dist inguishing featuresexist, I have found it useful to attribute some of themto the temporal differences between writ ing and speaking,and some of them to the interactional differences.Temporally, writ ing as an activity is much slower thanspeaking.
Speaking seems to be produced one "idea unit"at a time, each idea unit having a mean length of about2 seconds, or 6 words.
Every so often a sequence ofidea units ends in a fall ing pitch intonation of thesort we identify with the ending of a sentence.
Pausesusual ly occur between idea units, and longer pauses be-tween sentences.
The idea units within a spoken sen-tence tend to be strung together in a coordinate fashion,typically with the word "and" appearing as a link~There is little of the fancy syntax we find in writtenlanguage, by which some idea units are subordinated toand embedded within others.
It has been hypothesizedthat speakers' attention capacit ies are not great enoughto al low them to engage in much elaborate syntax.
Theflow of idea units is enough to keep them occupied.Writing, on the other hand, is peculiar in that the pro-eess of writ ing itself occupies an inordinate amount oftime, even though, once we get past the first grade, itdoesn't require a great deal of attention.
Thus,writers have a lot of extra time and attention avai lableto them, and apparently they often use it to constructelaborate sentences.
As a result, whereas the sentencesof spoken language have a dist inctly fragmented quality,those of written language tend to be more integrated,with much more attention paid to subordinating ideaunits within others in complex ways.
This integrationvs.
fragmentation dimension seems to be at the root ofa number of the features which dist inguish writing fromspeaking.The other dimension I have been interested in seems toresult from the different relation writers and speakershave to their respective audiences.
Whereas speakerscan interact directly with their l isteners, obtainingongoing confirmation, contradiction, and feedback, wri-ters cannot normally do so, but are constrained to paymore attention to producing something that will  stand onits own feet when it is read by someone later on in adif ferent place.
We can speak of the greater involve-ment of speakers, as contrasted with the greater detach-ment of writers.
Many of the specific features dist in-guishing speaking and writ ing can be lined up on thisinvolvement vs. detachment dimension.How can a computer produce language that is maximallycongenial to us humans, given the famil iarity we alreadyhave with the characterist ics of spoken and writtenlanguage?
~hat kind of human language should a computersimulate, in order that we can process it most easily?And to what extent is a computer able to produce such asimulation?Let's play with the assumption that we human users wouldfeel most at home with a computer terminal with which wecould converse in something resembling human conversa-tion, as close as this can be approximated by a machinewhich (I) can't yet make satisfactory sounds, but has towrite what it says; and (2) doesn't know how to experi-ence involvement with a human being.
Let's considerwhat this machine would need to do to make us feel thatwe were interacting in something like the way we inter-act when we use spoken language.Timing is one of the important factors.
Instead ofsteadily producing letters at the rate of 30 a second,this machine might try producing language as spokenlanguage is produced in real time.
That would meandoing it at half the speed, for one thing: 15 charac-ters a second would be about normal for the way weassimilate spoken language, and perhaps the rate at27which we naturally take in information But we woul9not want it spitting out one letter at a time at asteady rate, as it does now.
That has little to dowith the way we take in language, either spoken orwritten, under normal circumstances.
Perhaps it shouldgive us one word at a time, but I think it more likelythat we would feel most comfortable with syllables: syl-lables timed to simulate the timing of syllables in nor-mal English speech.
Roughly speaking, stressed syllableswould be longer and unstressed syllables shorter.
Acareful study of the timing of natural speech couldintroduce more sophistication here.
At the end of eachidea unit -- on the average after every 6 words -- therewould be at lease a brief pause, signaling the boundaryof the idea unit and allowing time for processing.
Atthe end of a sentence -- on the average after every 3ides units -- the pause would be longer, and paragraphboundaries would be signaled by lonBer pauses.
Ideaunits would be relatively fragented.
Many of them wouldbe connected by "end," and there would be little of theelaborate syntax one tends to find in written lenguage.As for involvement, the computer would need to learnthat humans are imperfect recipients of information, endthat redundancy end requests for confirmation are amongthe important devices to be used frequently in c~un i -catlng with them.
Frequent direct reference to theaddressee is another feature of involvement that thecomputer could easily learn to use.My terminal recently told me the following, at 30 steadycharacters per second"The "netlpr" co-----d, when executed betweencomputer center machines, now sets the owner-ship of net queue files correctly so that"netrm" will remove them end they are listedby the "netq" comm"ud.While this is reasonably good written language, and com-prehensible as such, I am asking whether meaningful lin-guistic interaction in real time might not better proceedsomethinB as follows, where you can imagine syllablesoeing timed as they are timed in spoken English, briefpauses at the ends of l lne~ end longer pauses where Ihave double-spaced (T is the terminal end U the user):T: Want to know about the "netlpr" command,where you type in "netlpr"?U: Sure.T: You can just use it between computer centermachines,OK?Only if you're up here.U: Yeah,I know.T: OK.It'll show you who owns net queue files,if you went to know that.You ten use "nets"  to get rid of the~,and you can get them listed with "netq".That clear?U: Yeah.One problem with this is that the user has to typeat his or her normal typing rate, which will inevitablybe much slower than speaking.
But even so, the frag-mentation and involvement which make this machine's out-put more like spoken language might significantlyi nc rease  the  user ' s  comfor t  end comprehens ion .
To knowwhether that is really true calls for further detailedresearch on the features which distinguish spoken fromwritten language, and tests of whether the introductionof such features into computer lenguege indeed makes adifference.
Such research ought in any case to berewarding beyond the bounds of this particular appli-cation.28
