NATURAL I.~IGUAGE INTERACTION WITH MACHINES :A PA~SING FAD?0RTHE WAY OF THE FU~"JRE?A.
Michael  Nol lAmerican Telephone and Te legraph CompanyBasking R idge,  New Je rsey  07920People communicate primarily by two medea: acoustic-- the spoken word; and visual N the written word.It is therefore natural chac people would expecttheir com--,nications with machines Co likewise useChess two modes.To a cons iderab le  extent ,  speech i s  p robab ly  the mostnatura l  o f  the natura l - language modes.
~ence,  afasc inat ion  ex is ts  w i th  machines thac  respond tospoken commands w i th  synthet ic  speech responses  tocreate a natural-language interactive discourse.However, a l though vast  amounts of  research  anddevelopment e f fo r t  have been expended in  the searchfo r  systems that  unders tand  human speech and respondw i th  synthet ic  speech,  the goa l  of  the per fec t  systemremains  a~ e lus ive  as ever .
Syste  ms fo r  p roduc ingnatura l - sound ing  speech fo r  la rge  vocabu lar ies  w i thunrest r i c ted  gr - -w .
- t i ca l  s t ruc tures  and fo r  recog-n i z ing  spoken speech fo r  la rge  vocabu lar ies  w i thunlimited gr -~-Cica l  structures and any humber oftalkers are still beyond the scats of linguistics andcomputer science and technology.Given the problems in  the speech domain, ic  i s  notsurpr i s ing  Chat most in teract ions  between people andmachines are  in the v i sua l  mode f requent ly  us inga lphanumer ic  keyboards  as input  and textua l  d i sp layas output .
Such visual terminals are already infairly widespread use in industry and are used for avariety of applications including computerprogr-n~ing, text editing, and data-base access.The te lephone a l lows  speech ce lecoa~nicat ions  overd i s tance  between peop le .
Future  v i sua l  te rmina ls  fo rthe home and bus inesses  w i l l  a l low textua lce lecom- - ,n icac ions  between peop le .
These v i sua lte rmina ls  cou ld  a l so  be used co te lecommunicate  w i thmachines in a way Chat is presently difficult usingthe telephone and speech.ViewdaCa, o r  v ideocex ,  systems are  promised soon fo rthe home and w i l l  a l low data -base  access  andtransactions with  machines and textual messagesbetween people .
Some viewdata systems use elaboratetree searches Co reach the desired frame ofinformation.
Some people believe that tree searcheswill be "unnatural" for many users and some othermere-natural language will be ueeded to search andaccess these  data -base  sysCeme.One conc lus ion  is  Chac the fu ture  w i l l  see merecho ices  in mode fo r  te leco~manicac ions  between peopleand w i th  machines .
The cho ice  of  which a l te rnatemade will probably  be dependent  upon the specificapplication.
For example, textual messages might beboth easier to enter by keyboard and Co read on a CRTscreen than speaking to a recording machine andlistening Co a recorded message.
However, socialchatting might be best over the telephone.
However,arranging a dace with a stranger might be lessrevealing if done in the textual mode.
Considerableopportunities exist for basic research to explore thesuitability of these alternate modes for differentco~nicac ions  applications.The fascination of technologists with speech-syuchesischips is about to result in a variety of stand-aloneappliances Chat speak.
Ovens chat scare when theroast is done, washing machines thac call for theaddition of fabric softeners, automobiles chat informthe driver thaC the door is open, and many ocherapplications will soon abound in the marketplace.
Inmost of chess applications, synthetic speech willsubstitute for a lamp or ocher form of visualdisplay.
The environment will be polluted with thenoise of buzzy synthetic speech.
Many of theseapplications will undoubtedly be little mere thanpassing fads.BuC in some c i rcumstances  ynthet ic  speech w i l lbecome the way of  the fu ture .
One example would besynthet ic -speech  announcements of f loors  in ane levator  thereby  e l iminat in  S crooked necks~Most of  the preced ing  examples are  very  res t r i c ted  interms of  the language used fo r  the in teract ion  w i thmach ines .
The problem wi th  unrest r i c ted  natura llanguage fo r  cor -un icac ion  w i th  machines i s  chaC noautomat ic  way has yec beeu d iscovered  Co ext ractmeaning in e i ther  the speech or  textua l  mode.
Thetextua l  mode does e l iminate  the ueed fo r  acoust i cana lys i s  and hence has been more extens ive ly  used inmost systems for restricted, specialized applica-tions.
However, even if either mode were equallynear perfect, questions would still arise about userpre ference  fo r  one mode over  the o ther .Thus, in  the end the fu ture  w i l l  be dec ided by thevotes  of  consumers in the marketp lace  as they choosefrom the many opt ions  presented  by techno logy .
Theshrewd enCerpreneur  will use consumer pre ference  andneeds Co he lp  i l luminate  in  advance the des i res  andneeds of  the marketp lace .
Basic research  inl ingu is t i cs ,  human behav iour ,  natura l  language,  andocher ancillary fields will have an important role indeve lop ing  so lu t ions  and in  unders tand ing  peop le ' sneeds and behav iour .137
