Interactive Discourse: Looking to  the FuturePanel Chair's IntroductionBonnie Lynn WebberUniversity of PennsylvaniaIn any technological field, both short-term and long-term research can be aided by considering where thattechnology might be ten, twenty, fifty years down thepike.
In the field of natural language interactivesystems, a 21 year vision is particularly apt to con-sider, since it brings us to the year 2001.
One well-known vision \[I\] of 2001 includes the famous computernamed Hal - one offspring, so to speak, of the majortheoretical and engineering breakthrough in computersthat Clarke records as having occurred in the early1980's.
This computer Hal is able to understand andconverse in perfect idiomatic English (written andspoken) with the crew of the spacecraft Discovery.
Andnot just task-oriented dialogues, mind you!Hal is a far cry from today's prototype natural languagequery systems, intelligent CAl-systems, diagnostic as-sistance systems, and Kurzweil machines.
For one thing,Hal is not Just responsive: he takes the initiative.His first documented utterance on board the spacecraftDiscovery comes at a time when the crewmen Bowman andPoole are engrossed in a fading vision screen image ofPoole's family on Earth, on the occasion of Poole'sbirthday.
"Sorrv to interrupt the festivities," said Hal~"but we have a problem.
"Not only can Hal converse in perfect idiomatic English,but he is a master of problem context (Panel I) andsocial context (Panel 2) as well!Now Hal is clearly where we currently are not at, and2001 is clearly only one man's vision (albeit a veryspecial man).
Yet Clarke's depiction of Hal raises sev-eral issues, which along with other ones, provide a cuefor the current panel discussion.
The issues include:I.
Where is it that we want to have, must have, can ex-pect to have, or conversely, should not have ~o have,Natural Language Interactive Systems?2.
Barring Clarke's reliance on the triumph of automat-ic neural network generation, what are the major hurdlesthat still need to be overcome before Natural LanguageInteractive Systems become practical?3.
What effects can we expect, deriving from the avail-ability of, what to me seem, almost magical developmentsin hardware?4.
Are there practical (and acceptable) alternatives tointeracting with machines in natural language in thevarious situations that provide a positive answer toquestion i?5.
Should we be shooting for spoken Natural Languageinteractions - either input or output or both - orshould we not, like Clarke, go the whole way and expectour machines to read lips as well.REFERENCES\[.
Clarke, Arthur C., 2001: A Space Odyssey, New Ameri-can Library, 1968.127
