WHAT TYPE OF INTERACTION IS IT TO BEEmanuel A. SchegloffDepartment of Sociology, U.C.L.A.For one, like myself, who knows something about humaninteraction, but next to nothing about computers andhuman/machine interaction, the most useful role at ameeting such as this is to listen, to hear the troublesof those who work actively in the area, and to respondwhen some problem comes up for whose solution the prac-tices of human interactants eems relevant.
Here,therefore, I will merely mention some areas in whichsuch exchanges may be useful.There appear to be two sorts of status for machine/tech-nology under consideration here.
In one, the interac-tants themselves are humans, but the interaction betweenthem is carried by some technology.
We have had the tel-ephone for about lO0 years now, and letter writing muchlonger, so there is a history here; to i t  are to be add-ed video technology, as in some of the work reported byJohn Carey, or computers, as in the "computer conferenc-ing" work reported by Hiltz and her colleagues, amongothers.
In the other sort of concern, one or more ofthe participants in an interaction is to be a computer.Here the issues seem to be: should this participant bedesigned to approximate a human interactant?
What isrequired to do this?
Is what is required possible?l) I f  we take as a tentative starting point that person-person interaction should tel l  us what machine-person in-teraction should be like (as Jerry Hobbs suggests in auseful orienting set of questions he circulated to us),we s t i l l  need to determine what type of person-person in-teraction we should consult.
I t  is common to supposethat ordinary conversation is, or should be, the model.But that is but one of a number of "speech-exchange sys-tems" persons use to organize interaction, or to be or-ganized by in it.
"t~eetings," "debates, .... interviews,"and "ceremonies" are vernacular names for other techni-cally specifiable, speech-exchange systems orgainzingperson-person interaction.
Different types of turn-tak-ing organization are involved in each, and differencesin turn-taking organization can have extensive ramifica-tions for the conduct of the interaction, and the sortsof capacities required of the interactants.
In the de-sign Qf computer interactants, and in the introductionof technological intermediaries in human-human interac-tion, the issue remains which type of person-person in-teraction is aimed for or achieved.
For example, in thePennsylvania video link-up of senior citizen homes, JohnCarey asks whether the results look more like conversa-tion or like commercial television.
But many of detailshe reports suggests that the form of technological inter-vention has made what resulted most like a "meeting"speech exchange system.2) The term "interactive" in "interactive program" orin "person/machine interaction" seems to refer to nomore than that provision is made for participation bymore than one participant.
"Interactive" in this senseis not necessarily "interactional," i .e .
,  the determi-nation of at least some aspects of each party's partic-ipation by collaboration of the parties.
For the "talk"part of person-person interaction, a/the major vehiclefor this "interactionality" is the sequential organiza-tion of the talk; that is, the construction of units ofparticipation with specific respect to the details ofwhat has preceded, and thereby the sequential positionin which a current bit of talk is being done.
Includedamong the relevant aspects of "what has preceded" and"current sequential position" is "temporality," or "realtime," though not necessarily measured by conventionalchronometry.
What are, by commonsense standards, quitetiny bits of silence -- two tenths of a second, or less(what we call micro-pauses) -- can, and regularly do,have substantial sequential and interactional conse-quences.
The character of the talk after them is regu-lar ly different, or is subject to different analysis, in-terpretation or inference.Although the telephone deprives interactants of visualaccess to each other, i t  leaves this "real time" tempo-ra l i ty  largely unaffected, and with i t  the integrity ofsequential organization.
Nearly all the technologicalinterventions I have heard about -- whether replacing aninteractant, or inserted as a medium between interactants-- impacts on this aspect of the exchange of talk.
I t  isone reason for wondering whether retention of ordinaryconversation as the target of this enterprise is appro-priate.
For some of the contemplated innovations, likecomputer conferencing, exchanges of letters may be amore appropriate past model to study, for there too morethan one may "speak" at a time, long lapses may intervenebetween messages, sequential ordering may be puzzling(as in "Did the letters cross in the mail?")
etc.3) Sequential organization has a direct bearing on anissue which must be of continuing concern to workers inthis area -- that of understanding and misunderstanding.It  is the sequential (including temporal) organizationof the talk which, in ordinary conversation, providesrunning evidence to participants that, and how, they havebeen understood.
The devices by which troubles of under-standing are addressed (what we call "repair," discussedfor computers by Phil Hayes in a recent paper) -- re-quests for repetition or clarif ication and the like --are only one part of the machinery which is at work.Regularly, in ordinary conversation, a speaker can detectfrom the produced-to-be-responsive n xt turn of anothers/he has or has been, misunderstood, and can immediatelyintervene to set matters right.
This is a major safe-guard of "intersubjectivity," a retention of a sense thatthe "sa~ thing" is being understood as what is beingspoken of.
The requirements on interactants to make thiswork are substantial, but in ordinary conversation, muchof the work is carried as a by-product of ordinary se-quential organization.
The anecodotes I have heard aboutmisunderstandings going undetected for long stretcheswhen computers are the medium, and leading to, or past,the verge of nastiness, suggest that these are real prob-lems to be faced.4) In all the business of person-person interactionthere operates what we call "recipient-design" -- the de-sign of the participation by each party by reference tothe features (personal and idiosyncratic, or categorial)of the recipient or co-participant.
The formal machin-eries of turn-taking, sequential organization, repair,etc.
are always conditioned in their realization on par-ticular occasions and moments by this consideration.
Idon't know how this enters into plans for computerizedinteractants, and i t  remains to be seen how i t  wil l  enterinto the participation of humans dealing with computers.Persons make all sorts of allowances for children, non-native speakers, animals, the handicapped, etc.
Butthere are other allowances they do not make, indeed thatdon't present themselves as allowances or allowables.What is involved here is a determination of where the ro-bustness is and where the brittleness, in interactingwith persons by computers, for in the areas of robustnessi t  may be that many of the issues I've mentioned may besafely ignored; the people "will understand.
"BIThroughout these notes, we are at a very general tevel ofdiscourse.
The real pay-offs, however, w i l l  come fromdiscussing specif ics.
For that ,  interact ion w i l l  be need-ed, rather than position papers.82
