PARASESSION ON TOPICS IN INYEZRACIXVE DISCOURSEINFLUENCE OF THE PROBLEM CONTEXT*Ar,avind K. JoshiDepartment of Computer and Infornmtion ScienceRoom 268 Moore SchoolUniversity of PennsylvaniaPhiladelphia, PA 19104My consents are organized within the framework suggestedby the Panel Chair, Barbara Grosz, which I find veryappropriate.
All of my conlnents pertain to the variousissues raised by her; however, wherever possible I willdiscuss these issues more in the context of the "infor-mation seeking" interaction and the data base doma/n.The primary question is how the purpose of the inter-action or "the problem context" affects what is saidand how it is interpreted.
The ~ separate aspectsof this question that must be considered are the func-tion and the domain of the discourse.I.
Types of interactions (functions) :i.
1 We are concerned here about a computer system par-ticipating in a restricted kind of dialogue with  aperson.
A partial classification of some existinginteractive systems, as suggested by Grosz, is asfollows.
I have r~_named the third type in a somewhatmore general fashion.Paz-ticipant Pl Participant P2(Computer system) (Person)Type A Expert ApprenticeType B Tutor StudentType C Information Informationprovider seeker(some sor~c of largeand con~lex data baseor knowledge base)Each type subsumes a variety of subtypes.
Forexample, in type C, subtypes arise depending on thekind of infoz~ation ava~l~hle and the type of the user.
(More on this later when we discuss the interactionof constraints on function and domain).I.
2 It should be noted also that these differ~_nt typesare not r~ally completely independent; in f~t ionseeking (Type C) is often done by the ap~t ice  (TypeA) and student (Type B), and some of the expla/ningdone by t-utor~ (Type B) is also involved in the TypeC interaction, for exa~le, when P1 is trying to ex-plain to P2 the st-ruc%%u~e of the data base.1.3 The roles of the two par~cicipants are_ also notfixed completely.
In the type C interaction, some-times P2 paz~ly plays the role of an ex~ (or atleast appears to do so) believing that his/her ex~advice may help the system answer the question more'easily' or 'efficiently'.
For example l, in a pollu-tion data base P1 may ask: Has company A dumped any,~Bstes last week?
and follow up with advice:arsenic first.
In ~ expert-apprentice interactlon,the e xper~c's advice is assumed to be useful by theapprentice.
In the data base domain it is not clearwhether the 'expert' advice provided by the user isalways useful.
It does however provide infor~rationabout the user which can be helpful in presenting theresponse in an appropriate manner; for example, ifarsenic indeed was one of the wastes dumped, -~hen, per-haps, it should be lis:ed first.1.4 The interactions of the type we are concerned abouthere are all meant to aid a person in some fashion.Hence, a general characterization of all these t~/pes isa helping function.
However, it is useful to distin-guish the types depending on whether an informationor information sharin~ interaction zs involved.C--interaction is przmarily information seeking,although some sharing interaction is involved also.This is so because information sharing facilitates in-formation seeking, for example 2 , when Pl explains thestructure of the data base to P2, so that P2 can engagein infor~nation seeking more effectively.
Type A andB are more information sharing than infornmtion seekinginteractions.i.
S Another useful distinction is that type C interac-tion has more of a service function than types A and Bwhich have more of ~ in ing  function.
Training in-volves more of information sharing, while service in-volves more of providing infornmtion requested by theuser.2.
Information about the  user:2 .i By user we usually mean user type and nor a spe-cific user.
User inforr~ation is essential in deter-minJ_ng expectations on the par~ of the user and theneeds of the user.
Within each type of interactionthere can be many user types and the same infoz~nationmay be needed by these different types of users fordifferent reasons.
For exan~le, in t-/pe C interaction,pr~_r~gist-ration iIlfor~ation about a course scheduledfox" the foz~chcoming t~ may be of interest to an in-st-cuctor because he/she wants to find out how popularhis/her course is.
On the other hand, the same datais useful to the regisrrer for deciding on a suitabler~x)m assigr~nent.
The data base system will often pro-vide different views of the same data to different usertypes.2.2 In general, knowledge about the user is necessar~,at leas~ in the type C interaction in order to decide(i) how to present the requested information,(ii) what additional information, beyond that ex-plicitly requested, might be usefully pr~esented(this aspect is not independent of (i) above),(iii) what kind of responses the system should providewhen the user's misconceptions about the domain* This work was par~ially supported by the NSF grantMCS79-08401.I ,~Bnt to thank Eric Mays, Kathy McKeown, and BonnieWebber for their valuable conments on an earlier draftof this paper.31(i.e., both The ~crure  and content of thedata base, in short, what can be talked about)are detected.
(More about this in Section 5).3.
Conversational style:3.1 In the type C interaction, The user utterances (moreprecisely, user's Typewritten input) are a series ofquestions separated by the system's responses.
By andlarge, the system responds to the current question.However, knowledge about the preceding interaction i.e.,discourse context (besides, of course, the informationabout the user) is essential for tracking the "topic"and thereby deter~nining the "focus" in the currentquestion.
This is especially importa~nz for derer~Iininghow to present the answer as well as how to provideappropriate responses, when user's misconceptions aredetected.Type A and B interactions perhaps involve a much morestructured dialogue where the sZru:rure has its scopeover much wider stretches of discourse as co~d tothe ai@\]ogues in the Type C interactions, which appearto be less st rucru~.3.2 The type of interaction involved certainly affectsthe conversational style; however, li%-tle is knownabout conversational style in interactive man/machinecommunication.
Folklore has it that users adapt veryrapidly to the system's capabilities.
It might beuseful to compare this situation to that of a persontalking to a foreigner.
It has been claimed thatnatives talking to foreigners deliberately change theirconversational style = (for example, slowing down theirspeech, using single words, repeating certain words,end even occasionally adopting some of the foreigner'sstyle, etc.
).
It may be that users rr~-at the computersystem as an expert with respect to the knowledge ofthe domain but lacking in some communicative skills,much like a native talking to a foreigner.Perhaps it is misleading to Treat man/machine interact-ive discourse as just (hopefully better and better)approximations to h ~  conversational interactions.No matter how sophisticated these systems become, theywill at the ve.~y least lack the face to face interac-tion.
It may be That there are certain aspects ofthese interactions that are peculiar to This modaliryand will always rema/m so.
We seem to know so littleabout these aspects.
These remarks, perhaps, belong.more to the scope of the panel on social context than tothe scope of this panel on the problem context.4.
Relation of expectations and functions:~.i In the information seeking interaction, us,~11y,the imperative force of the user's questions is to havethe system bring it about that The use~- comes to knowwhatever he/she is asking foP.
Thus in asking thequestion Who is r~istered in CIS 591?
the user is in-terested in knowing who is registered in CIS 591.
Theuser is normally not interested in how the syst~n gotthe answer.
Ln the Type A and B in--actions theimperative force of a question from the user (apprenticeor student) can either be the same as before or it canhave the imperative force of making the system show theuser how the answer was obtained by the system.4.2 ~.n the data base domain, although, primarily theuser is interested in what the answer is and no~ in howit wa obtained, this need not be the case always.Somet..~s the user would like to have the answer accom-panied by how it was obtained, the 'access paths'through the--~ta base, for example.4.3 Even when only the what answer is expected, oftenthe presentation of the answer has to be accompanied bysome 'supportive' information to make the response use-ful to the user 4 .
For exa~le, along with the studentname, his/her department or whether he/she is a Eradua1~or under~duate student would have to be stated.
Iftelephone numbers of students are requested then alongwith the telephone numbers, the corre_sponding names ofstudents will have to be provided.S.
Shared knowledge and beliefs:5.!
The shared beliefs and goals are embodied in thesystem's knowledge of the user (i.e., a user model).It is important to assume that not only the system hasthe knowledge of the user but that the user assumesthat the system has this knowledge.
This is verynecessary to generate appropriate cooperative responsesand their being correctly understood as such by theuser.
In or~ina_-y conversations this type of knowiec~ecould lead to an infinite regmess and hence, the needto require the shared knowledge to be ',u/rual knowle~e'.However, in the current da~a base systems (and even inthe expert-epvrentice and tutor-student interactions)I am not aware of situations that truly lead to some ofthe well krK~an prDblems about 'mutual knowledge'5.2 As regards the knowledge of the data base itself(both structure and content), the system, of course,has this knowledge.
However, it is not necessarythat the user has this knowledge.
In fact very oftenthe user's view of The data base will be differentfrom the system's view.
For large and complex databases this is more likely to be the case.
The systemhas to be able to discern the user's view and presentthe answers, keeping in mind the user's view, ~Tuileinsuring that his/her view is consistent with thesystem's view.S.
3 When the system recognizes some disparity betweenits view and the user's view, it has to provide appro-priate corrective responses.
Users' misconceptionscould be either extensional (i.e., about the contentof the data base) or intensional (i.e., about thestructure of the data base) ~ .
Note that the ex-tensional/inTensional distinction is from the pointof view of the system.
The user may not have madethe distinction in that way.
Some simple examples ofcorrective r~_sponses are as follows.
A user's ques-tion: Who took CIS 591 in Fall 19797 presumes thatCIS 591 was offered in Fall 1979.
If ~his ~as notthe case then a response None by the system would bemisleading; rather the response should be that CIS 591was not offered in Fall 1979.
This is an instance ofan extensional failure.
An example of intensionalfailure is as follows.
A user's question: How man 7under~aduates taught courses in Fall 19797 pr~su~es(among other things) that undergraduates do teachcourses.
This is an intensional presumption.
If itis false then once again an answer None would be mis-leading; rather the response should--~ that under ~graduates are nor perm ~Ted to teach coUrSes, facultymembers teach courses, and graduate students teachcourses.
The exact nature of this response dependson the s~:rucrure of the data base.5.
Co~lexir~ of The domain:6 .i Iu each type of interaction the complexity of theinteraction depends both on the nature of the interac-tion (i.e., function) as well as the domain.
In manyways the complexity of the interaction ultimately seemsto depend on the cc~nplexity of the domain.
If thetask itself is not very complex (for example, boilingwater for tea instead of assembling a pump) the taskoriented expert-apprentice interaction cannot be verycomplex.
On the other hand data base interactionwhich appear to be simple at first sight become in-creasingly complex when we begin to consider (i) dyna-mic data bases (i.e., they can be updated) and theassociated problems of monitoring events (ii) databases with n~itiple views of data, (iii) questionswhose answers z~equiz~ the system to make fairly deepinferences and involve computations on the data basei.e., the answers are not obtained by a straigbtfor%mz~retrieval process, etc.NOTES:i.
As in the PLIDIS system described by Genevieve2.
As in Kathy McKeown's current work on gene_~atingdescriptions and explanations about data basest-~ucrure.3.
For exa~le, by R. Rammurri in hem talk on'Strategies involved in talking to a foreigner'at the Penn Linguistics Forth 1980 (published inPenn Review of Linguistics, Vol.
4, 1980).~.
Many of my comments about supportive informationand corrective responses when misconceptions aboutthe ccntent and the stTucrure of the data baseare detected are based on the work of JerryKaplan and Eric Mays.
