Chronometric Studies of Lexical Ambiguity ResolutionMark S. SeidenbergUniversity of Illinois at Urbana-ChampaignBolt, Beranek and Newman, Inc.Michael g. TanenhausWayne State UniversityLanguages such as English contain a large number of wordswith multiple meanings.
These words are commonly termed"lexlcal ambiguities", although it is probably moreaccurate to speak of them as potentially ambiguous.Determining how the contextually appropriate reading of aword is identified presents an important and unavoidableproblem for persons developing theories of naturallanguage processing.
A large body of psycholingulstlcresearch on ambiguity resolution has failed to yield aconsistent set of findings or a general,non-controverslal theory.
In this paper, we review theresults of six experiments which form the basis of amodel of ambiguity resolution in context, and at the sameaccount for some of the contradictions in the existingliterature.This work has three foci.
The first is that we considerthe lexlcal structure of words with multiple meanings,that is, relations among the meanings which presumablygovern their representation in memory, and their accessin context.
Second, we attempt to characterize thestructure and content of the llngulstlc context in whichan ambiguous word occurs.
It is clear that thellstener/reader uses context to compute the correctreading of a word; however, contexts provide differenttypes of information which may be utillzed in differentways.
Third, we consider real-time aspects of ambiguityresolution as it occurs in people, using a methodologythat permits us to evaluate successive stages inprocessing.Relations among the meanings of ambiguous words varyalong several dimensions.
The component readings may besemantlcally related (the senses of GRASP in "to grasp abaseball" and "to grasp an idea") or semanticallyunrelated (e.g., the meanings of TIRE related to"sleeplng" and "wheel").
This dimension underlies thetraditional distinction between polysemy and homonymy\[Lyons, 1978\].
(I) The number of component readings alsovaries.
The readings of a word can fall into differentgrammatical classes (e.g., the "sleep" reading of TIRE isa verb, the "wheel" reading a noun) or the same class(the meanings of STRAW related to "sipping" and "hay" areboth nouns).
The readings may be used approximatelyequally often in the language (e.g., WATCH) or they maybe of unequal frequency (e.g., PEN, COUNT).
Our researchis concerned with homonymous words with two commonreadings of approximately equal frequency.Contexts provide several different types of informationwhich are utilized in resolving amblgulty.
(2) In example\[I\], the context provides syntactic information thati .
John began to t i re .favors the verb reading of the ambiguous word TIRE, andblocks the alternate noun reading.
Syntax can functionin this way only for ambiguous words with readings thatfall into different gr-m.mtical classes.
In \[2\], syntax2.
A doctor removed Henry*sdamaged organ .is neutral with respect  to the alternate readings ofORGAN (because both are nouns), but a word in the context("doctor") is highly semantically related to one reading,and thus favors it; the alternate reading is not blocked,but merely implausible in the absence of any furtherinformation.
The appropriate reading of DECK in \[3\] is3.
John walked on the deck.indicated by a different means, which eLight be termedpragmat ic .
The perce iver  knows that  a person  i s  muchmore l i ke ly  to wa lk  on the  sur face  of  a sh ip  than  on thesurface of a pack of playing cards.Other types of contextual information can be brought tobear on ambiguity resolution as well.
For example, \[4\] isdisamblguated by exploiting ~ass noun/count nouninformation; \[5\] might be disamblguated by applyingknowledge of a stereotyplc situation (a script or frame;Schank & Abelson, 1977; Minsky, 1975).4.
Henry wanted a straw.5.
John avoided the check.Extended contexts frequently contain multiple sources ofdlsamblguatlng information.Leaving aside vague or misleading cases, it is clearthat all of these types of information yield the sameoutcome, assignment of the contextually-approprlatereading of a word.
We sought to determine whether theyproduced this effect by the same means.
Broadlyspeaking, there are two alternative mechanisms by whichthe correct reading could be assigned.
The perceivercould access all of the common readings of the word inparallel, and use contextual information to perform asubsequent selection.
This alternative --traditionallytermed "multiple access'--holds that while the perceiverusually is aware of only a single reading, there istransient subconscious activation of others as well.
Theother posslbillty--"selectlve access"--is that contextsrestrict lexlcal access to the single appropriatereading.
Both of these alternatives have been supportedby experimental evidence.The time course of processing events is evaluated byusing a variable stlmulus onset asynchrony (SOA) primingmethodology \[Warren, 1977\].
The subject bears a sentencethat is followed by the presentation of a single word ona screen.
Latency to read the word aloud is used todiagnose the availability of alternate word senses.
Forexample, sentence \[1\] above favors the verb reading ofTIRE.
If subjects access that meaning, they should befaster to read the semantically-related target word SLEEPthan when it follows an unambiguous, unrelated controlsentence (e.g., "John began to leave").
However, ifsubjects also access the contextually inappropriatereading of TIRE, faster naming latencles will beobserved for a word related to it (e.g.
WHEEL) as well.Similar considerations hold for \[6\], in which the contextfavors the noun reading of TIRE.6.
John bought the t i re .Changes in the availability of alternate readings overtime can be tracked by presenting targets at a variabletime interval following the ambiguous word or itscontrol.
In our experiments, targets appeared at a delayof either 0 or 200 msec.The first experiment (Tanenhaus, Leiman and Seldenberg,1979) examlned the resolution of noun-verb (N-V)ambiguities such as TIRE in syntactic frames such asthose in \[i\] and \[6\].
The results were clear: ar 0 msecSOA, targets related to both the appropriate andinappropriate readings showed faster naming latenclesthan controls.
With a 200 msec delay interposed betweenambiguous word and target, however, only targets relatedto the contextually appropriate reading showedfacilitation.
The results indicated that syntacticinformation in the context did not restrict lexlcal155access  to a s ing le  read ing ,  but ins tead  permi t ted  a rap idselection between alternatives.
Thls occurred despitethe fact that the context made it impossible to derive acoherent interpretation of the utterance using thealternate readlng.
(3)Se idenber8 ,  Tanenhaus and Leiman \[1980\] found la rge ly  thesame pattern of resu l t s  wlth noun-noun (N-~) ambigu i t iessuch as ORGAN or STRAw and contexts such as \[7\], whichwere neutral7.
John removed the organ .with respect to alternate readings of the ambiguousword.
At 0 msec $OA, targets related to both readingsshowed facilitation, as might be expected since thecontext did not favor either one.
At 200 nsec $OA,however, facilitation occurred on approximately half thetrials, which would result if listeners had retained onlyone reading of the ambiguous word on each trial.
(&)The pattern of results was similar to that in theTanenhaus et al (1979) study of syntactic contexts:multiple access, followed by avilabillty of only onereading 200 msec later.
However, the underlyingprocesses were quits different.
In the syntactic framesstudy, listeners accessed multiple readings and used thecontext to select the appropriate one.
In the Seldenberge~ al.
(1980) study, listeners accessed multiple readingsbut the context could not be used to perform a selection.They nonetheless assigned a default value within 200msec.
The results suggest that ambiguity resolution issubject not only to constraints imposed by the nature ofthe context, but also to llmitatlons of time.
Subjectsavoid carrying multiple readings longer than 200 mseceven when contexts do not unambiguously isolate one.
Theexperiment was designed so that at the moment theambiguous word occur red ,  they  had no reason  to be l ievethat  d i sambtguat ing  in fo rmat ion  would not be fo r thcoming .Under th i s  c i rcumstance ,  they might have been expected  tore ta in  mul t ip le  mean ings .
Ins tead ,  sub jec ts  ass ignedtheir best guess, risking the possibility that subsequentre-processlng would be necessary.
It appears thatreprocess ing  imposes less  of a burden on the process ingsystem than that  assoc ia ted  w i th  re ta in ing  mul t ip leread ings  over  t ime.In another  exper iment ,  Se idenberg  e ta l .
(1980) examinedthe e f fec ts  of b ias ing  semant ic  in fo rmat ion  on N-Nambiguities in contexts such as \[8\].8.
The farmer removed the straw.As in  \ [2 \ ] ,  the context  conta ins  a wordsemant ica l ly - re la ted  to one meaning of the ambiguousword; syntact i c  in fo rmat ion  i s  neut ra l .
These contextsproduced se lec t ive  access :  fo r  each i tem,  on ly  the ta rgetre la ted  to the contextua l ly -appropr ia te  read ing  of  theambiguous word showed fac i l i ta t ion ;  the  ta rget  re la tedto the inappropr ia te  read ing  showed naming la tenc lescomparable to  those in the unrelated control.
Theseoutcomes held at both SOAs.
Although N-N amblgu/tlesproduced multiple access in the previous experiment withneutral contexts, the biasing contextual information inthls experiment affected the initial access of meaning.Ne suggested such contexts Rrlme one reading of theambiguous word, in the sense of Collins and Loftus(1975) ,  Meyer and Schvaneve ld t  (1975) ,  Warren (1977) ando thers .
The read ings  of  an ambiguous word are  assumed tobe coded in memory in  terms of  re la t ive  ac t ivat ion  leve lswhich re f lec t  f requency  and recency  of  use.
A word orphrase  semant ica l ly - re la ted  to one read ing  produces  at rans ient  inc rease  in i t s  ac t ivat ion  leve l ,  poss ib lythrough a spread ing  act ivat ion  process  (Co l l ins  & Lo f tus ,1975).
The readings are accessed in order of relativeactlvatlon; the primed reading is accessed first, andassigned on-llne.
(5)As noted above,  N-N ambigu i t ies  can be reso lved  by us ingo ther  types  of  in fo rmat ion ,  e .g .
p ragmat ic ,  massnoun/count  noun, e tc .
These d i f fe r  from the pr imingcontexts  used in the prev ious  exper iment  because  they  donot  conta in  any words or  phrases  semant ica l ly  o rassoctat tve ly  re la ted  to a read ing  of the ambiguous word.In  th i s  way they  are  comparab le  co the syntact i c  contextso f  the f i r s t  exper iment .
The four th  exper iment  comparedthe  use of non-pr iming  contextua l  in fo rmat ion  in  thereso lu t ion  of  N-N and N--V ambigu i t ies .
Again thevar iab le  S0A methodology was used,  w i th  ta rgets  appear inga t  0 and 200 msec de lays .
The resu l t s  in  both the  N-Nand N-V cond i t ions  rep l i ca ted  those  of our  f i r s texper iment ,  showlng mul t ip le  access  a t  0 msec, fo l lowedby ava i lab i l i ty  o f  on ly  a s ing le  read lng  200 msec la ter .The exper iments  to th i s  po in t  can be summarized asfo l lows .
There appear  to be two c lasses  of  contexts  thathave very  d i f fe rent  e f fec ts  on ambigu i ty  reso lu t ion .Pr iming contexts  conta in  words or  phrases  semant ica l ly  o rassoc la t ive ly  re la ted  to one read ing  of  an ambiguousword.
They increase  the ac t ivat ion  leve l  of  the read ingbe fore  I t  i s  encountered  through a non-d i rec ted ,automat ic  p rocess .
In  th i s  way, they  can a l te r  the  orderin  which read ings  are  eva luated .
These e f fec ts  a reln t ra - lex ica l  (Fors ter ,  1979) ,  so le ly  due totn terconnect tons  among nodes in  semant ic  memory.Non-pr iming contexts  i nc lude  var ious  types  ofin fo rmat ion - -syntact i c ,  p ragmat ic ,  and o thers - -wh ichrequ i re  access  o f  g r -m-mttca l  knowledge and knowledge ofthe  wor ld .
The word recogn i t ion  process  y ie lds  one ormore read ings  of the  ambiguous word to be eva luatedaga ins t  the demands imposed by these  contexts .
Thenumber of  read ings  accessed  and the order  in  which theyare  eva luated  depends upon the i r  re la t ive  ac t ivat ionleve ls ,  which any be a l te red  by pr iming .In exper iment  f i ve ,  we tes ted  an imp l i ca t ion  of  thepriming hypothesis.
Recall that N-V ambiguities yleldmultiple access, as do N-N ambiguities, except when thelatter occur in priming contexts.
Clearly, thls suggeststhat N-V ambiguities might  also produce selective accessIf the context contained a priming word or phrase, as in\[9\].9.
The nearsighted timekeeperdropped his watch.Thus, we compared the processing of ~-N and N-Vambiguities in priming contexts.
The N-N resultsreplicated those of the Seldenberg et al (1980)experiment, selective access.
The noun-verb conditions,however, continued to show ~ulglple access.
Becausethe result was unexpected, we undertook a replication; i ttoo showed thls pattern.The results of this series of experiments are summarizedin Table I.
We found no evidence that listeuers coulduse their knowledge of a language and knowledge of theworld to restrict access to a single reading, at leastfor the class of ambiguous words with two commonreadings.
Although these types of Information canfacilitate the immediate pronesslng of a word (asdemonstrated by Marslen-Wilson and Tyler, 1980), they donot influence the activation of word senses.
I t  w~ssuggested that the latter could be affected only byp~lming; however ,  the status of thls hypothesis is Indoubt.
Twice we observed selective access for N'Nambiguities in priming contexts; twice w- falle~ toobtain selective access with N-V ambiguities i n  similarcontexts.
Thls forces us to conclude that primingaffects nouns differently than verbs, and stronglysuggests that theories of lexlcal memory and recognitionmust begin to take into account the syntacElc functionsof worr .156Table IType of Context Type of Ambiguous Word1,3.
syntactic N-V2.
neutral N-N3,5.
priming N-N4.
norr-primlng bias N-N5,6.
prlmlng N-VOutcomemultlple--->selectlonmultlple--->selectlonselective accessmultlple--->selectlonmultlple-=->selectlonReferencesCollins, A.M. and Loftus, E.F. A spreadlng-actlvatlontheory of semantic processing.
PsychologicalReview, 1975, 82, 407-428.Forster, g.I.
Levels of processing and the structureof the language processor.
In W.E.
Cooper andE.C.T.
Walker (eds.
), Se..__nntence pr_oc__.eeessln~:Studlespresented to  Merrill Garrett.
LEA, 1979.Lyons, J.
Semantics.
Cambridge University Press,1978.Marslen-Wilson, W.D.
and Tyler, L.K.
The temporalstructure of spoken language understanding.Co~nltion, 1980, 8, 1-71.Meyer, D. and Schvaneveldt, R. Meaning, memory,structure, and mental processes.
In C.N.
Cofer(ed.
), The structure of human memory.
Freeman,1975.M/risky, M. A framework for representing knowledge.In P. Winston (ed.
), The psychology of computervision.
McGraw-Hill, 1975.Schank, R. and Abelson, R. Scripts, plans, goalsand understanding.
LEA, 1977.Seldenberg, H., Tanenhaus, M. and Leiman, J. Thetime course of lexlcal ambiguity resolution incontext.
Center for the Study of Reading TechReport #164, 1980.Tanenhaus~ M., Lelman, J. and Seldenberg, M. Evi-dence for multiple stages in the processing ofambiguous words in syntactic contexts.
J.VerbalLearning and Verbal Behavior, 1979, 18, " ~ .Warren, R. Time and the spread of activation inmemory.
J.
Experimental Psychology: HumanLearnln~ and Memory, 1977, ~, 458-466.FootnotesThis research was supported by the NationalInstitute of Education under Contract No.US-NIE-C-400-76-OII6 to the Center for theStudy of Reading, and by a Wayne State U.research development award.i.
Of course,a word can have semantlcally-dlstlnctreadings that are themselves polysemous.2.
These distinctions among types of context are notintended to prejudge any theoretical issues, only tofacilitate exploratory research.3.
It should be noted Chat a large number of sentenceswere utilized, and that precautions were taken to ensurethat the experimental procedure itself would not inducesubjects to access meanings they would otherwise ignore.4.
For details, see the cited reference.
Essentially,the experiment included control conditions which providedestimates of the amount of facilitation that would occurif either both readings or no readings were accessed onevery trial.
At 200 msec SOA, the amount of facilitationwas almost exactly halfway between these two figures,suggesting that only one reading was available.5.
The data are unclear as to whether activation of thealternate reading is entirely suppressed, or merelydelayed.157
