THE PROCESS OF COMMUNICATION IN FACE TO FACE VS.
COMPUTERIZED CONFERENCES;A CONTROTT.~n EXPERIMENT USING BALES INTERACTION PROCESS ANALYSISStart Roxanne Kiltz, Kenneth Johnson, and Ann Marie RabkeUpsala CollegeINTRODUCTIONA computerized conference (CC) is a form of co~znunica-tion in which participants type into and read frc~ acomputer terminal.
The participants may be on line atthe same time--termed a "synchrononous" conference, ormay interact anynchronous~.
The conversation isstored and mediated by the computer.How does this form of communication change the processand outcome of group discussions, as compared to the"normal" face to face (FtF) medium of group discussion,where participants communicate by talking, listeningand observing non-verbal behavior, and where there isno lag between the sending and receipt of communicationsignals?
This paper briefly ~*mmarizes the resUltS ofa controlled laboratory experiment designed to quantif~the manner in which conversation and group decisionmaking varies between FtF and CC.
Those who wish moredetail are referred to the literature review whichserved as the basis for the design of the experiment(Hiltz, 1975) and to the full technical report on theresults (Hiltz, Johnson, Aronovitch, and Turoff, 1980).This paper is excerpted from a longer paper on theanalysis of communications process in the two media andtheir correlates (Hiltz, Johnson and Rabke, 198Q).0v~vIEw OF mm z~na~TThe chief independent variable of interest is the im-pact of computerized conferencing an a c~un icat ionsmode upon the process and outcome of group decisionmaking, as compared to face-to-face discussions.
Twodifferent types of tasks were chosen, and group sizewas set at five persons.
The subjects were UpsalaCollege undergraduate, graduate and continuing educa-tion students.
The communications process or profilewas quantified using Bales Interaction process Analy-sis (see Bales, 1950).In computerized conferenclng, each participant isphysically alone with a c~mputer terminal attached toa telephone.
In order to communicate, he or she typesentries into the terminal and reads entries sent by theother participants, rather than speaking and listening.Enter ing  input  and res~t tug  output  may be  done to ta l lya t  the  pace  end t ime chosen  b~ each  ind iv idua l .
Con-ce ivab ly ,  fo r  ins tance ,  a l l  g roup  members cou ld  beentering comments simultaneously.
Receipt of messagesfrom others is at the terminal print speed of 30 char-acters per second.Even when all five participants are on-line at the s~metime, there is considerable lag in a computer confer-ence between the time a discussant types in a co~ent ,and when a response to that comment is received.First, each of the other participants must finish whatthey are typing at the time; then they read thewaiting item; then they may type in a response; thenthe author of the original cou~ent must finish his orher typing of a subsequent item and print and read theresponse.
There is thus a definite "asynchronous"quality even to "synchronous" computer conferences.As a result, computer conferences often develop severalsimultaneous threads of discussion that are being dis-cussed concurrently, whereas face to face discussionstend to focus oD one single topic at a time and thenmove on to subsequent topics.
(See Hiltz and Turoff,1978, for a complete description of CC as a mode ofcummunicatlon).A variable of secondary Interest is problem type.
Muchexperimental literature indicates that the nature Ofthe problem has a great deal to do with grou~ perform-ance.
One type of problem that we used is the humanre la t ions  case  as  deve loped by  Ba les .
These aremedium complex, unsettled problems that have no speci-fic "correct" answer.
The second type was a "scienti-fic" ~-anklng problem ( requiring no specific expertise ),which has a single correct solution plus measurable de-grees of bow nearly correct a groupts answer may be.The ranking problem, "Lost in the Arctic", was adaptedfor ~-~et rat ion  over a conferencing system by per-mission of its originators (See Eady and Lafferty).The experiments thus had a 2 x 2 factorial design (seefigure one).
The factors were mode of communication(face-to-face vs. camputerlzed conference) and problemtype (human relations vs. a more "scientific" rankingproblem with a correct answer).
These factors con-stituted the "independent variables."
Each problem-mode condition included a total of eight groups.Figure 1Design of the ExperimentTwo by Two Factorial with Repeated Measures:Blocks of FourTask TaskType A Type BGroupsFace-to-Face 4 hCcmguterizedConference ~BACKGROUND: THE BALES EXPERIMENTS AND INTerACTIONPROCESS ANALYSISWorking at the Laboratory of Social Relations at Har-vard, Bales and his colleagues developed a set of cate-gories and procedures for coding the interaction insmall face-to-face decision-making groups which becamevery widely utilized and generated a great deal of dataabout the nature of co~unicmtion and social processeswithin such groups.Coding of the co~nunications interaction by InteractionProcess Analysis involves noting who makes a statementor non-verbal participation (such as nodding agreement);to whom the action was addressed; and into which oftwelve categories the action best fits.
These cate-gorles are listed in subsequent tables and explainedbelow.
The distribution of co~z~unications units amongthe twelve categories constituted one of the main de-pendent variables for this experiment.
We expectedsignificant differences associated with mode of communi-cation.
We also expected some differences associatedwith task type.
We did not feel that we had enoughinformation to predict the directions of these differ-ences.
For almost every category, we could think ofsome arguments that would lead to a prediction that thecategory would be "higher" in CC, and some reasons whyit might be lower.75METHODThe number of  Ba les  un i t s  per  face  to  face  group wasmuch greater  than  the  number fo r  acc  group .
There -fo re ,  each ind iv idua l  and group was t rans formed to  apercentage distribution among the ~velve categories.Then statistical zests were performed to determine ifthere were any significant differences in IPA distri-butions associated with mode of communication, prob-blem, order of problem, and the interaction amongthese variables in relation to the percentage distri-bution for each of the Bales categories.There are many different ways in which the percentagescould be computed.
To take full advantage of the de-sign, we cumputed the percentage distribution for eachindividtu~l, in each condition.
Thus, we actu~S-ly havethe Bales distributions for each of 80 individuals ina face to face conference, and in a computerized con-ference.The mode of analysis was a two by two factorial nesteddesign.
If there was no significant group effect,then  the  er ror  te rms cou ld  be "pooled", meaning wecould use the  80 observations as i ndependent  obser-vations for statistical test purposes.
We also per-formed a non-parametric test on the dat~ for eachBales category, which gave us similar results.DIFFERENCES ASSOCIATED WITH COmmUNICATION MODETwo of the detailed analysis of variance tables onwhich the st~mary here is based are included as anAppendix.
Note that the analyses were first performedseparately for the two problems, using c~un icat ionmode as ~he independent variable.
For each problem,we tested the significance of mode of c~un icat ion ,order (whether it was the first or second problemsolved by the group), and the interaction between modeand order?Listed in figures two and three is a su~nary of thestatistical results of the 24 analyses of variancewhich examined observed differences between communi-cation modes for each of the two rases.
The first twocolu~us show the mean percentage of co~nunications ineach category.
For example, in the first table, re-sults for Forest Ranger, the first column shows thaton the average less than 1% of an individual's communi-cations were verbally "showing solidarity", but in CC,3.22% fell into this category.
The third column showsthat the results for the 16 groups in the nested factor-ial design were significant at ~he .005 level, meaningthat the probability of tae observed differences oc-curing by chance in a sample this size is one in 200.The fourth column shows the level of significance ifthe group was not a significant variable and the obser-vations could be pooled, with the 80 individualstreated as independent observations.
In this case,group was significant, so the pooled analysis could notbe done.In looking at these data, there is an apparent codingproblem.
Even for the Forest Ranger problem, face toface, we obtained a somewhat different distribution ofcoding than did persons coding problem discussions suchas this who were directly trained by Bales.
(See Balesand Borgatta, 1955, p. 400 for the complete ~ qtribu-tions).
Our coding has 20% more of the statementsclsssified as "giving opinions" than Bales and Borgattacode, and correspondingly lower percentages in all ofthe other categories.
This means that our resultscannot be directly compared to those of other investi-gators, since apparently ~he training for coding inter-preted many more statements as representing some sortof analysis or opinion than "should" be there, accord-ing to the distributions obtained for similar studiesby Bales and his colleagues.
(Other possible explana-t ions  a re  that  Upsa la  Co l lege  has produced an ~nusua l lyop in ionated  and ana ly t i c  se t  o f  s tudents  or  that  thee f fec t  o f  p re -exper imenta l  t ra in ing  in  cc ra i sesop in ion  g iv ing  even in  subsequent  FtF d i scuss ions .
)I t  does not  a f fec t  the  compar i sons  among prob lems andmodes fo r  th i s  s tu~,  s ince  a l l  o f  the  coders  werecoding the  data  w i th  the  same gu ide l ines  and in ter -p re ta t ions .
In  ~he major i ty  of  cases ,  the  same pa i ro f  coders  coded both  the  CC and FtF cond i t ion  fo r  thesame group.
In  any case ,  the  seven  ind iv idua ls  whod id  the  cod ing  had been t ra ined  to  an acceptab le  leve lo f  re l iab i l i ty .Figure 2Summary of IPA Results forForest Ranger byMode of C~.-unica~ion and OrderBales Category  Average P Si~mificanceFTF CC By Group PooledShows:Solidarity .79 3.22 .005 G3Tension Release 3.98 .83 .0005 .0005Agreement 13.19 4.79 .0005 .0005Gives:Suggestions 4.70 9.21 .i0 .i0Opinion 54.21 53.92 X XOrientation 12.81 16.10 .i0 .02Asks for:Orientation 3.27 1.58 .05 GSOpinion 2.88 5.36 .01 .01Su@gestions .30 .62 .25 .20Shows:Disagreement 4.85 2.39 .05 .05Tension: .81 2.16 .05 .01Problem Ist .28 1.68Problem 2nd 1.33 2.64Antagoni~: .75 1.67 X XGS ?
Group significant cannot pool by ind /v id~Figure 3Suwmary of IPA Results forArctic byMode of Ct~m.unication and OrderBales Category Avermge P SignificanceFTF CC By Group PooledShows:Solidarity 1.66 2.h~ .I0 .05Tension "~lease 7.70 1.60 .0005 .0005Agreement 13.35 6.82 .01 GSGives:Suggestions 3.56 4.89 .20 .iOProblem ist 2.95 6.1/Problem 2nd 4.17 3.61Opinion 42.99 57.80 .005 G3Orientation 14.58 11.81 .25 GSAsks for:Orientation 3.72 1.62Opinion 5.15 7.~6Suggestions l.lh .58?
025.20X?O0O5GS~S76Shows:Disagreement 3.51 2.h6 X GSTension: 1.52 .64 .025 .005Antagonism: l.ll 1.86 X GSProblem let ?
77 .73Problem 2nd 1.45 3.00GS = Group significant cannot pool by individualDISCUSSION OF THE RESULTSThe twelve categories in Bales Interaction ProcessAnalysis can be combined into four main zhlnctionalareas.
Categories 1-3 and 10-12 are the "social-emo-tlonal" functions, oriented towards internal group pro-cess.
The first three are called "social-emotionalpositive", while 10-12 are "negative".
Categories 7-9are "Task oriented", giving answers or contributions tosolving the problem faced by the group, and categoriesh-6 are varieties of "asking questions" in the taskoriented area.It will be noted, by wa~- of further introduction, thatthere are some very strong differences in the profiles,even In the same medium, depending upon the type oftask faced by the group, and that there is some inter-action between task type and medium.
For example, moretension was shown in the arctic problem in the CC con-dition; more in the Forest Ranger problem in the FTFcondition.We will take each of the categories, describing morefully what is included in them, and then discuss theextent to which there appear to be significant differ-ences between the media in the relative prevalence ofcommunications of that type.
We will also try to ex-plain the possible reasons for or implications of sig-nificant d/fferences that are discovered.1.
"Shows solidarity, raises other's status, gives help,reward"Included in this category are initial and responsiveacts of active solidarity sad affection, such as saying"hello" and making friendly or congenial remarks to"break the ice"; praising or encouraging the other(s);giving support or sympathy or offers of assistance;urging harmony and cooperation.
These are all overtattempts to improve the solidarity of the group.Note that there is a significantly greater amount of"showing solidarity" in computerized conferencing.This is probably because much of the behavior of thistype in a face to face situation is non-verbal, suchas smiling in a friendly manner while nodding encourage-ment.
Non verbal acts in this category are not eodablefrom the tapes of the discussions.
In the CC condition,however, the participants realize that they must putsuch things into words.Another possible explanation is that the greater ten-dency towards overt, explicit showing of solidarity isan attempt to compensate for the perceived coldness andimpersonality of the medium.2.
"Shows Tension Release, Jokes, laughs, shows satis-faction"This includes expressions of pleasure or happiness,making friendly Jokes or kidding remarks, laughing.There was significantly more tension release overtlyexpressed in the face to face groups.
Much of thiswas waves of laughter, particularly in the arctic prob-lem.
The participants did not put this into words inthe conference when typing.
Observing them, however,there was much private laughter and verbal expressionsshowing "tension release", but these do not appear inthe transcript.
It is part of the private "lettingdown of face" that occurs but is not communicated thro-ugh the computer.3.
"Agrees, shows passive acceptance, understands, con-curs, complies"This occurs as concurrence in a proposed course ofaction or carrying out of any activity which has beenrequested by others.
There is significantly moreagreement overtly expressed in face to face confer-ences than in computerized conferences.
We suspectthat this is related to the pressure to conformcreated by non-verbal behavior and the physicalpresence of the other group members.
In any case,it is undoubtedly related to the greater difficultyof CC groups in reaching total consensus.h.
"Gives SUggestion, direction, implying autonom~ forother"Includes giving suggestions about the task or sUgges-ting concrete actions in the near term to attain agroup goal.
There is a tendency for more suggestionsto be given by more people In computerized conferenc-ing.
This is part of the equalitarian tendency formore members to actively participate in the task behav-ior of a group in CC.
In one of the problems, thed/fference was statistically significant at the .05 le-vel; whereas in the other, it was sizable but did notreach statistical significance.5.
"Gives opinion, evaluation, analysis, expressesfeeling, wish"Includes all reasoning or expressions of evaluation orinterpretation.This is the most frequent type of co-,~unication forboth problems and Both modes.
For the Bales problem,there was no difference in its prevalence associatedwith mode of co~nuaication.
For the Arctic problem,however, there ~&s a large and statisticaJ_ly significantdifference, with more opinion giving in the CC condi-tion.6.
"Gives Orientation, information, repeats, clarifies,confirms t,This includes statements that are meant to secure theattention of the other, (such as "There are two pointsI'd like to make..."), restating or reporting the essen-tial content of what the group has read or said; non-inferential, descriptive generalizations or summaries ofthe sit%latlon facing the group.
There are no clear dif-ferences here.
Whereas there is a statistically signif-icant difference in the direction of giving more orien-tation in CC for Forest Ranger, for the other problem,the difference is reversed,7.
"Asks for orientation, information, repetition andC On i~I rmat i on ''There is a significant tendency for this to occur moreoften in face to face discussions.
This is probablybecause of the frequency with which a group member doesnot hear or understand the pronunciation of a sentenceor partial utterance.
In CC, people are usually morecareful to state their thoughts clearly, and the recipi-ent can read it several times rather than asking forrepetition if it is not understood the first time or islater forgotten.
We have noticedmany CC participantsgoing back and looking at co~nents a second or third t im~in a face to face discussion, they would probably asksomething like: "What was it you said before about x?".8.
"Asks for opinion, evaluation, analysis, expressionof feeling"?7This  occurs  more f requent ly  in  ccmpuZer ized confer -enc in~.
For one o f  the  prob lems,  the  d i f fe rencereached s ta t i s t i ca l  s ign i f i cance ,  whereas i t  d idnot  fo r  the  o ther .
~h is  tendency  to  more f requent -l y  and exp l i c i t l y  ask fo r  the  op in ions  of  a l l  theother group members, as well as to more spontane-ously offer ones own opinions and analyses in C0,does seem to qualitatively be characteristic ofthe me~i~.9.
"Asks for s~est ion ,  direction, possible waysof action"This includes all over~, explicit requests, suchas "What shall we do now?".
It is not very preva-lent in either medi,~, and there are no significantdifferences.i0.
"Disagrees, shows passive rejection, formal-ity, witholds resources"This includes all the milder forms of disagreementor refusal to ccaply or reciprocate.
This is alsoan infrequent form of communicntion, but it occursmore in face to face discussions than in CC.ii.
"Shows tension, asks for help, withdraws outof field"Includes indications that the subject feels -nYiousor frustrated, with no particular other group mem-ber as the focus of these negative feelings.
Theresults on this are rather puzzling.
We end upwith a statistically significant tendency for thereto be more tensions when in CC for the Forest Ran-ger problem, hut in FTF for the Arctic problem.Substantively, the proportion of these communica-tions is very ~m~ll in nny c~e,  and therefore,the small differences are not importasz.12.
"Shows antagonism, deflates other's s~atus, de-fends or asserts self"This includes autocratic attempts to control or di-rect others, rejection or refusal of a request, de-riding or criticizing others.This is infrequent in both media and there are nosignificant differences.EFFECTS OF ORDERFor the most par~, it did not matter whether the CO orthe FtF discussion was held first.
However, moresaggestions were offered on the arctic problem if itwas discussed in CC as ~e first problem, but morein FTF discussion if the FTF was preceeded by a CCcondition.
This is consistent with the tendency forCC to promote more giving of sugEestions; apparently,the tendency carries over to a subsequent f~ce ~o faceconversation.
This raises the interesting possibi'It"/that the group process and structure can be permanentlychanged by the experience of interacting through CC, achange that will carry over even to communications inother modes.
Other pieces of evidence from others~udies, including self reports of participants inlong term field trials, indicate the same poasibillty.CONCLUSIONOur investigation confirms the hypothesia that thereare some signiflcan~ differences in the group com-munication process between face to face and compu-ter mediated discussions.
Such differences seem ~obe associated with other characteristics of themedium, such as the greater tendency for minorlt?opinions to be maintained, rather than a totalgroup consensus emerginK, in a fuller analysis (Hiltz,Johnson, Arono~?ch and Turoff, 1980) we show that theobserved differences in interaction profiles are highlycorrelated w~h the abillty of a group to reach con-sensus and wirer the quali~y of group decision reached.APyzapIXAna lyses  o f  Var ianceBa les  Categor ies  by Mode and Problem9Y~h Hested  Factor ia lArcticI nd iv idua l  % DataBales Category 1 - Shows SolidarityMeLnsMode of  Crm--unicntionFTF CCOrder ist 1.6893 2.4348 2.0620ofProblem 2rid 1.6228 2.4437 2.03331.6561 2.4392Nested  DesignSource SS ~f MS FA 12.2673 1 12.2673 3.9004B .0166 1 .0166 .0053A x B .0285 i .0285 .0091C/AB 37.7414 12 3.1451 1.3745S/ABC i46.~430 64 2.2881Tot .
i~6.4967 79Pooled ANOVATable Val~es Eor Fi and 12 a-e=4.7512 and 64df-1.90Source SS df MS FA 12.2673 1 12.2673 5.0618 eB .0166 1 .0166 .0068A x B .0285 i .0285 .01,17WG 184.18~4 76 2.4234Tot.
196.4967 79Table Value for F1 and 76 df=3.97*SignificantA = modeB = orderC/AB a er ror  te rm for  AB, and A x BS/ABC m er ror  te rm for  C/ARWG = Poo led  er ror  te rmThe pooled design yields a significant difference he-,teen the FTF and CC conditions.
The CC conditionsshow a greater  percent  .of  the i r  cn -~ents  in ~he cate -gory  of shows solidarity.Ordero fProblem9v~vh Nested  Factor ia lFores t  RangerInd iv idua l  % DataBa les  CategoI 'y 3 - AgreesMeansMode of Co?mmu~icntionFTF COlat 14.1900 5.461,52nd 12.1921 4.11839.82738.155213.1910 4.791478SourceABAxBC/ABCSl~CTot.SS1411.074055.91342.1232515.15804056.144960hO.4135dfIii126479MS1411.074055.91342.123242.929863.3772Nested DesignF32.8693*1.3024.0h95.677~Table Values for F1 and 12 df=4.7512 and 64 df=l.90*SignificantPooled ANOVAThe following pooled design is not really necessarysince one finds the variables significant as above.Source SS df MS FA Ihli.0740 1 ihli.0740 23.h598"B 55.9134 i 55.913h .9296A x B 2.1232 i 2.1232 .0353WG ~571.3029 76 60.1487Tot.
60~0.4135 79A=modeB=orderC/AB=error term for A, B, A x BS/ABC=error term for C/ABWG=Pooled error termTable Value for F1 and 76 df=3.97*SignificantThe nested design yields a significant difference be-tween the FTF and CC Conditions.
The FTF conditionsshow a greater percent of their comments in category 3-Agrees.REFERENCESBales, Robert1950 Interaction Process Analysis; A Method forthe Study of Small Groups.
Reading, Mass; AddisonWesley.Bales, Robert F. and Edgar F. Borgatta1955 "Size of Group as a Factor in the InteractionProfile."
In A.P.
Hare, E. F. Borgatta and R. F.Bales, eds., Small Groups: Studies in Social Inter-action, pp.
396-413.
New York: Knopf.Eady, Patrick M. and J. Clayton LafferZy1975 "The Subarctic Survival Situation."
Plymouth,Michigan: Experiential Learning Methods.Hiltz, Starr Roxanne1975 "Communications and Group Decision Making"; Ex-perimental Evidence on the Potential Impact of Compu-ter Conferencing.
Newark, N.J., Computerized Confer-enclng and Communications Center, New Jersey Instituteof Technology, Research Report No.
2.Hiltz, Starr Roxanne, Kenneth Johnson, Charles Arono-vitch and Murray Turoff1980 Face to Face Vs.
Computerized Conferences: A Con-trolled Experiment.Hiltz, Starr Roxanne, Kenneth Johnson, and Ann MarieRabke1980 Communications Process and Outcome in Face toFace Vs.
Computerized Conferences.Hiltz, Starr Roxam.ne and Murray Turoff1978 The Network Nation: Human Commanication via Com-puter.
Reading, Mass,: Add/son Wesley Advanced BookProgram.ACKNOWLKDG~4ENTSThe research reported here is supported by a grant fromthe Division of Mathematical and Computer Sciences (MCS78-00519).
The findings and opinions reported aresolely those of the authors, and do not necessarily re-present those of the National Science Fo~u%dation.Murray Turoff and Charles Aronovitch played a large partin the design and analysis for this project.
We arealso grateful to Julian Scber and Peter and Trudy John-son-Lenz for their contributions to the design of theexperiments; to John Howell and James Whitescarver fortheir software design and programming support; and toour research assistants for their dedicated efforts incarrying out the experiments and coding questionnaires:Joanne Garofalo, Keith Anderson, Christine Naegle, NedO'Donnell, Dorothy Preston, Stacy Simon and Karen Win-ters.We would also like to thank Robert Bales and Experimen-tal Learning Methods for their cooperation in providingdocumentation and permission to use adaptations of prob-lem solving tasks which they originally developed.
