PARALANGUAGE IN COMPUTERMEDIATED COMMUNICATIONJohn CareyAlternate Media CenterNew York UniversityThis paper reports on some of the components of personto person communication mediated by computer conferenc-ing systems.
Transcripts from two systems wereanalysed: the Electronic Information and ExchangeSystem (EIES), based at the New Jersey Institute ofTechnology; and Planet, based at Infomedia Inc. inPalo Alto, California.
The research focused uponthe ways in which expressive communication is encodedby users of the medluml.i.
INTRODUCTIONThe term paralanguage is used broadly in this report.It includes those vocal features outlined by Trager(1964) as well as the prosodic system of Crystal (1969).Both are concerned with the investigation of linguisticphenomena which generally fall outside the boundariesof phonology, morphology and lexical analysis.
Thesephenomena are the voice qualities and tones whichcommunicate expressive feelings, indicate the age,health and sex of a speaker, modify the meanings ofwords, and help to regulate interaction between speak-ers.Paralanguage becomes an issue in print communicationwhen individuals attempt to transcribe (and analyse)an oral presentation, or write a script which is to bedelivered orally.
In addition, paralinguistlc analysiscan be directed towards forms of print which mimic orcontain elements of oral co~munlcatlon.
These includecomic strips, novels, graffitti, and computer confer-encing (see Crystal and Davy 1969).The research reported here is not concerned with adirect comparison between face-to-face and computermediated communication.
Such a comparison is useful,e.g.
it can help us to understand how one form borrowselements from the other (see section 5.
), or aid inthe selectldn of the medium which is more appropriatefor a given task.
However, the intent here is simpler:to isolate some of the paralingulstic features whichare present in computer mediated communication and tobegin to map the patterning of those features.simple message sending (.electronic mail), task relatedconferencing, and fun (e.g.
Jokes and conferences onpopular topics).
Bills for usage were paid by theorganizations involved, not the individuals themselves.These elements within the frame may affect the style ofinteraction.One concern in frame analysis is to understand differen-ces in a situation which make a difference.
Clearly,there is a need to investigate conditions not includedin this study in order to gain a broader understandingof paralinguistic usage.
Among the conditions whichmight make a difference are: the presence of a secretaryin the flow of information; usage based upon narrowtask communications only; and situations where there isa direct cost to the user.3.
FEATURESThe following elements have been isolated within thetranscripts and given a preliminary designation asparalinguistic features.3.1.
VOCAL SPELLINGThese features include non standard spellings of wordswhich bring attention to sound qualities.
The spellingmay serve to mark a regional accent or an idiosyncraticmanner of speech.
Often, the misspelling involvesrepetition of a vowel (drawl) or a final consonant(released or held consonant, with final stress).
Inaddition, there are many examples of non standard con-tractions.
A single contraction in a message appearsto bring attention (stress) to the word.
A series ofcontractions in a single message appears to serve as atempo marker, indicating a quick pace in composing themessage./biznls//weeeeell//b reakkk /2.
THE FRAMEComputer conferencing may be described as a frame ofsocial activity in Goffman's terms (1974).
The computerconferencing frame is characterized by an exchange ofprint communication between or among individuals.
Thatis, it may involve person to person or person to groupcommunication.
The information is typed on a computerterminal, transmitted via a telephone line to a centralcomputer where it is processed and stored until theintended receiver (also using a computer terminal anda telephone llne) enters the system.
The receivedinformation is either printed on paper or displayed ona television screen.
The exchange can be in real time,if the users are on the system simultaneously andlinked together in a common notepad.
More typically,the exchange is asynchronous with several hours or afew days lapse between sending and receiving.In all of the transcripts examined for this study, thecomposer of the message typed it into the system.Further, the systems were used for many purposes:/y'all//Miami Dade Cmt7 Coll Life Lab Pgm/F igure i.
Examples of Vocal SpellingSoma of the spellings shown above can occur through aglitch in the system or an unintended error by thecomposer of the message.
Typically, the full contexthelps the reader to discern if the spelling wasintentional.3.2.
LEXICAL SURROGATESOften, people use words to describe their "tone ofvoice" in the message.
This may be inserted as aparenthetical comment within a sentence, in which caseit is likely to mark that sentence alone.
Alternative-ly, it may be located at the beginning or end of amessage.
In these instances, it often provides a tonefor the entire message.1.
The research was supported by DHEW Grant No.
54-P-71362/2/2-01In add i t ion ,  voca l  segregates  (e .g .
uh huh, hmmm, yukyuk) are written commonly within the body of texts.67/What was decided?
I like the idea, butthen again, it was mine Oshe said blush-ingly).//Boo, boo Horror of horrors!
ti65DOESN'T seem to cure all the problemsinvolved in transmitting files./Figure 2.
Examples of Lexlcal Surrogates3.3.
SPATIAL ARRAYSPerhaps the most s~rlklng feature of computer confer-encing is the spatial arrangement of words.
Whilesome users  borrow a s tandard  le t te r  fo rmat ,  o therstreat the page space as a canvass on which they paintwi~h words and letters, or an advertisement layoutin which they are free to leave space between words,skip lines, and paragraph each new sentence.Some spatial arrays are actual graphics: arrangementsof letters to create a picture.
Hiltz and Turoff (1978)note the heavy use of graphics at Christmas time,when people send greeting cards through the conferencingsystem.
Zn day to day messaging, users often leavespace between words (indicating pause, or setting offa word or phrase), run words together (quickening oftempo, onomatopoeic effect), skip lines within aparagraph (~o setoff a word, phrase or sentence), andcrea~e paragraphs to lend visual support to the entiremessage or items within it.
In addition, many messagescontain headlines, as in newspaper writing./One of our units here Just makes anawfulhowllng noise.
/0OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSS//$SSSSSS$$$$$SS$$$$S$$$$SSSS$$SSSSS$When the next bill comes in fromEIES/Telanet, you may also be interested/Figure 3.
Examples of Spatlal Arrays3.4.
MANIPULATION OF GRAMMATICAL MARKERSGr-,,-m~ical markers such as capitalization, periods,ccnmlaa, quotation marks, and parentheses are manipulatedby users to add stress, indicaue pause, modify the toneof a lexlcal item and signal a chan~e of voice by thecomposer.
For eY-mple, a user will employ threeexclamation marks at the end of a sentence ~o lendincensity to his point.
A word in the middle of asentence (or one sentence in a message) will becapitalized and ~hereby receive stress.
A series ofdes!
os between syllables of a word can serve to holdthe preceding syllable and indicate s~ress upon it orthe succeeding syllable.
Parentheses and quotationmarks are used commonly to indicate that the wordscontained within them are to be heard with a differenttone than the rest of the message.
A series of periodsare used to indicate pause, as well as to indicatein~ernal and terminal Junctures.
For example, in somemessages, composers do not use commas.
At points wherea com-m is appropriate, three periods are employed.
Atthe end of the sentence, several periods (the numbercan vary from 4 to more than 20) are used.
This systemindicates to ~he reader hor.h the grammatical boundaryand the length of pause between words.The Electronic Information and Exchange System employssome of these gr---,-tical marker manipulations in theinterface between user and system.
For example, theyinstruct a user to  respond with question marks when hedoes not know what to do at a comm"nd point.
Onequestion mark indicates "I don't understand what EIESwants here," and will yield a brief explanation fromthe system.
Two question marks indicate "I am ver 7confused" and yield a longer explanation.
Three ques-tion marks indicate "I am totally lost" and put the userin direct touch with the system monitor./Welcome Aboardl::~//This background is VERY important, since itmakes many people (approprlately, I think)aware about idea.//THERE IS STILL SOME CONFUSION ON DATES FORPHILADELPHIA.
MIKE AND I ARE PERPLEXED:?//At this point, I think we should include aBROAD range of ideas -- even if they lookunworkab le .
//Pau l .
.
.
th ree  qu ick  po in ts  .
.
.
.
.
.
f i r s t .
.
.
the  paper /Figure 4.
Manlpulaclon ofGra~natical Markers3.5.
MINUS FEATURESThe absence of certain features or expected work incomposition may also lend a tone to the message.
Forexample, a user may not correct spelling errors orglitches introduced by the system.
Similarly, he maypay no attention to paragraphing or capltalization.
Theabsence of such features, particularly if they areclustered together in a single message, can convey arelaxed tone of familiarity with the receiver or quick-ness of pacing (e.g.
when the sender has a lot of workto do and must compose the message quickly).4.
PATTERNING OF FEATURESIg can be noted, first, that some features mark a shortsyllabic or polysyllabic segment (e.g.
capitalization,contraction, and vocal segregates), while others markfull sentences or the entire message (e.g.
a series ofexclamation points, letter graphics, or an initialparenthetical coeN"ent).
Second, it is revealing thatmany of these features have an analogic structure: insome manner, they are llke the tone they represent.For example, a user may employ more or fewer periods,more or fewer question marks ro indicate degrees ofpause or degrees of perplexity.
Paralanguage in every-day conversation is highly analogic and representsfeelings, moods and states of health which do not(apparently) lend themselves to the digital structure ofwords .Parallngulstic features in computer conferenclng occur,often, at points of change in a message: change of pace,change of topic, change of ~one.
In addition, many ofthe features rely upon a contrastive structure toco---unicate meaning.
That is, a message which is typedin all caps does not communicate greater intensity orstress.
Capitalization must occur contrastlvely overone or two words in an othertrlse normal sentenceor over one or two sentences in a message which containssome normal capitalization.Most paralinguistlc features can have more than onemeaning.
Reviewed in is lation, a feature might indi-cate a relaxed tone, an intimate relation with thereceiver, or simply sloppiness in composition.
Readersmust rely upon the surrounding context (both words andother paralinguistic features) to narrow the range ofpossible meanings.68The intended receiver of a message, as well as anoutsider who attempts to analyse transcripts, must copewith the interpretation of paralinguistic features.Initially, the reader must distinguish glitches in thesystem and unintended typing errors from intentionaluse of repetition, spacing, etc.
Subsequently, thereader must examine the immediate context of the featureand compare the usage with similar patterns in thesame message, in other messages by the composer, and/orin other messages by the general population of users.5.
DEVELOPMENT OF A CODEThe findings presented in this study are taken from alimited set of contexts.
For this reason, they mustbe regarded as a first approximation of paralinguisticcode structure in computer conferencing.
Moreover, thefindings do not suggest that a clear code exists forthe community of users.
Rather, the code appears tobe in a stage of development and learning.The study has helped to define some differences amongusers which appear to make a difference in the pare-linguistic features they employ.
In the corpus oftranscripts examined, usage varied between new andexperienced participants, as well as between infrequentand frequent participants.
Generally, experienced andfrequent participants employed more paralinguisticfeatures.
However, idiosyncratic patterns appear tobe more important in determining usage.
The findingsserve more to define questions for subsequent studythan to provide answers about user variations.In addition, It is clear that the characteristics ofthe computer terminals (TI 745s, primarily), as wellas system characteristics, provided many of the compon-ents or "bricks" with which paralinguistlc featureswere constructed.
For example, the repeat key on theterminal allowed users to create certain forms ofgraphics.
Also, star keys, dollar signs, colons andother available keys were employed to communicateparalinguistic information.
System terms to describe amode of operation (e.g.
notepad, scratchpad, message,conference) may also influence development of a codeof usage by suggesting a more formal or informalexchange.Finally, it may be noted that early in their usage,some participants appeared to borrow formats from othermedia with which they were familiar (e.g.
businessletters, telegrams, and telephone conversations).
Overtime, patterns of usage converged somewhat.
However,idiosyncratic variation remained strong.6.
CONCLUSIONA few conclusions can be drawn from this study.
First,the presence of paralinguistic features in computerconferencing and the effort by users to communicatemore information than can be carried by the wordsthemselves, suggest that people feel it is importantto be able to communicate tonal and expressive informa-tion.
Second, it is not easy to communicate thisinformation.
Users must work in computer conferencingto communicate information about their feelings andstate of health which naturally accompanies speech.While there does not appear to be a unified and identl-fiable code of paralinguistic features within confer-encing systems or among users of the systems, thecollective behavior of participants may be creatingone.REFERENCESCrystal, David Prosodic Systems and Intonation inEnglish.
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press 1969.Crystal, David and Davy, Derek Investigating EnglishStyle.
Bloomington: Indiana University Press 1969,Goffman, Erring Frame Analysis.
New York: Harper andRow 1974,Hiltz, Starr Roxanne and Turoff, Murray The NetworkNation.
Reading, Massachusetts: Addlson-Wesley 1978.Trager, George "Paralanguage: A First Approximation,"in Dell Hymes (ed.)
Language in Culture and Society.New York: Harper and Row 1964.89
