Analo~es in Spontaneous Discourse IRachel Relc bmanHarvard University andBolt Beranek and Newman Inc.AbstractThis paper presents an analysis of analogies based onobservations of oatural conversations.
People'sspontaneous use of analogies provides Inslg~t into theirimplicit evaluation procedures for analogies.
Thetreatment here, therefore, reveals aspects of analogicalprocessing that is somewhat more difficult to see in anexperimental context.
The work involves explicittreatment of the discourse context in which analogyoccurs.
A major focus here is the formalization of theeffects of analogy on discourse development.
There ismuch rule-llke behavior in this process, both inunderlying thematic development of the discourse and inthe surface lir~ulstlc forms used in this development.Both these forms of regular behavior are discussed interms of a hierarchical structurin6 of a discourse intodistinct, but related and linked, context spaces.1 IntroductionPeople's use of analogies in conversation reveals a richset of processing strategies.
Consider the followingexample.A:B:C:I. I think if you're going to marry someone in the2.
Hindu tradition, you have to - Well, you - They3.
say you g ive  money to the family, to the glrl,4.
but in essence, you actually buy her.5.
It's the same in the Western tradition.
You6.
know, you see these greasy fat millionaires going7.
around with film stars, right?
They've8.
essentially bought them by their status (?money).9.
HO, but, there, the woman is selllng herself.10.
In these societies, the woman isn't selling11.
herself, her parents are selling her.There are several interesting things happening in thisexchange.
For example, notice that the analogy is arguedand discussed by the conversants, and that in thearEumentatlon C uses the close discourse deictlo "these"tO refer to the in~tlatlng subject of the a~alogy, andthat she uses the far discourse delctlo "there" to referto the linearly closer analogous utterances.
Inaddition, notice that C bases her rejection ca a non-correspondence of relations effectlng the relationclaimed constant between the two domains (women he i~sold).
She does not simply pick any arbitrary non-correspondence between the two domains.
In the body ofthis paper, I address and develop these types ofphenomena accompanying analogies in naturally ongoingdiscourse.The body of the paper is divided into four sections.First a theoretic framework for discourse is presented.This is followed by some theoretic work on analo~es,  anintegration of this work with the general theory ofdiscourse proposed here, and an illuntratlon of how theII would llke to thank Dedre Gentner for many usefulcomments end discussions.integration of the different approaches explicates theissues under discussion.
In the last section of thepaper, I concentrate on some surface llngulstlo phenomenaaccompanying a oonversant's use of analogy in spontaneousdiscourse.2 The Context Space Theory of  DiscourseA close analysis of spontaneous dialogues reveals thatdiscourse processing is focused and enabled by aconversant's ability to locate ~ single frame ofreference \[19, 15, 16\] for the discussion.
In  effectivecommunication, listeners are able to identify such aframe of reference by partitioning discourse utterancesinto a hierarchical organization of distinct but relatedand linked context snaces.
At any given point, only someof these context spaces are in the foreground ofdiscourse.
Foreg~ounded context spaces provide the~eeded reference frame for subsequent discussion.An abstract process model of discoursegeneration/interpretation incorporatlng a hierarchicalview of discourse has been designed using the formalismof an Augmented Transition Network (ATN) \[29\] 2 .
The~Ta~r  encoding the context space theory \[20, 22\] viewsa conversation as a sequence of conversatlooal moves.Conversational moves correspond to a speaker'scommunioatlve goal vis-A-vis a particular precedingsection of discourse.
Among the types of conversationalmoves - speaker communicative goals - formalized in thegrammar are: Challenge, Support, Future-Generallzation,and Further-Development.The correlation between a speakerPs utterances and aspeaker's communicative goal in the context space grammaris somewhat s~m~lar to a theory of speech acts A laAustin, Searle, and Grloe \[I, 2q, 9\].
As in the speechact theory, a speaker's conversatloral move is recognizedas a functional communicative act \[q\] with an associatedset o f  preconditions, effects, and mode of fulfillment.However, in  the context space approach, the actsrecognlzed are specific to maxlm-abldlng themat icconversational development, and their preconditions andeffects stem from the discourse structure (rather thanfrom/on arbitrary states in the external world).All utterances that serve the fulfillment of a slng~lecommunicative goal are partitloned into a singlediscourse unit - called a context space.
A context spacecharacterizes the role that its various parts play In theoverall discourse structure and it explicates featuresrelevant to "well-formedness" and "maxim-abiding"discourse development.
~ine types of context spaces havebeen formalized in the grammar representing the differentconstituent types of a discourse.
The spaces arecharacterized in much the same way as elements of a?
Systemic Grammar" A la Halllday \[10\] via attributesrepresented as "slots" per Minsky \[I~\].
All contextspaces have slots for the followlng elements:2The ru les  i ncorporated  in  the grammar by themselves  donot form a complete system of discoursegeneration/inter pretatlon.
Rather, they enablespecification of a set of high level Semantlc/log~Icalconstraints that a surface l ln~is t lc  from has to  meet inorder to fill a certain maxlm-abidlng conversational roleat a given point in the discourse.63o a propositional representation of the set offunctionally related utterances said to iie Anthe space;o the communicative goal served by the space;o a marker reflecting the influential status ofthe space at any given point in the discourse;o links to preceding context spaces i n  relatlon towhich this context  space wan developed;o specification at the relations involved.An equally important feature of a context space are itsslots that hold the inferred components needed torecognize the communicative goal that the space serves inthe discourse context.
There are various ways to fulfilla g iven  communicat ive goa l ,  and usua l ly ,  dependent on themode of fu l f i l lment  and the goa l  in  quest ion ,  one cancharacterize a set of s tandard ized  implicit componentsthat  need to be in fe r red .
For example, as noted byinvest igators  of  a rgumentat ion  (e .g .
,  \ [~ ,  23, 5, 22 \ ] ) ,in interpreting a proposition as supporting another ,  weof ten  need to infer some sot  of  mappings between anInterred generic principle of  support, the statedproposition of support, and the claim being supported.We must also infer some general rule of inference thatallows for conclusion a claim given the explicitstatements of support and these inferred components.Reflecting this standardization of inferentialelaborations, I have oategorlzed dlfferent types ofcontext spaces based on communicative goal and methodf t t l f t l lment  charaeterlzatlons (i.e., specification ofspecific slots needed to hold the standardizedinferential elaboratlons particular tO a g~Lven goal andmode of fulfillment).
Dellneatioo of context spaces,then, is functlomally based, and in the context spacegrammar, ImplAclt components of a move are treated anmuch a part of the discourse as those components verballyexpressed.3 The Analogy Conversational MoveZnterpretlng/understanding an analogy obviously involvessome inferenoing ca the part of a listener.
An analogouscontext space, therefore, has some slots particular toit.
The grammar's characterization of an analogouscontext space is derivative from its for~uLl analysis ofan analogy oonversatlom-l move.3.1 The Structure-Happing ApproachI dent i f i ca t ion  of  those aspects of  knowledge cons ideredimpor tant  in  ana logy  seems to be of  major cavern  incurrent Investlgatlon of  this cognitive task(e.g.
,  \[2, 3, 6, 7, 8, 11, 12, 13, 18, 25, 28\]).GentnerJs ~ theory \[6, 7, 8\] seems mostcompatlble with the findings of the context  spaceapproach.
Gentner argues that analogies aa-e based on animplicit understanding that "identical operations andrelationships hol~ among non identical things.
Therelational s t ruc ture  is preserved ,  hut not theob jec ts"  \ [8,  p.~\ ] .Gentner's analysis can be used to explain B's analogybetween the Hindu and Western traditions in Excerpt I.The relation ~ BUYING WOMAN.
FOR $0~ COMPANION FUNCTIONis held constant between the two doma/ns, and theappropriateness Of the analogy iS not affected, forinstance, hy the noncorrespondlng political views and/orreligions of the two societies.While Gentner cuts down on the number of correspondencesthat must exist between two domains for an analogy to beconsidered good, she still leaves open a rather wide seto?
relations that must seemingly be matched between abase and target domain.
We need some.
way to furthercharacterize Just those relations that must be mapped.For example, the relation TRADING WITH CHINA is totallyirrelevant to the Hindu-Western analogy in this discoursecontext.
As noted by Lakoff & Johnson \[12\], metaphorssimultaneously "highlight" and "hide" aspects of the twodomains being mapped onto each other.
The context spacetheory supplements both Lakoff & Johnson's analysis andthe structure-mapplng approach in its ability to providerelevant relation characterization..3.2 The Context  Space ApproachIn the context space theory, three elements areconsidered vital to analogy evaluation:o the s t ruc ture  mapping theoryo relevant context identificationo communicat ive goa l  ident i f i ca t ionThe context space grammar's analysis of  analogies can becharacterized by the following:Explicating the connection between an utterancepurportlng to make a claim analogous to another rests onrecoghizlng that fc~.
two propositions to be analogous, itanst be the cnse that they can bo ~h be seen an ~nstanc,sOf some more general claim, such that the predicates ofall three propositions are identloal (i.e., relationidentity), and the correspondent objects of the twodomains involved are both subsets of some larger sotspecified in this more general claim.Rejecting an analogy is based on specifylng somerelation, RI, of one domain, that one implies (or claims)is not true in the other; or is based on specifying somenon-ldentloal attrlbute-value pair ~'om whloh such arelation, RI, can be inferred.
In both cases, RI oustitself stand in a 'CAUSE' relation (or soma other suchrelatlon 3) with one Of the relations explicitly mentionedin the creation of the analogy (i.e., one being heldconstant between the two domains, that we csul call RC).Furthermore, it must be the cnse that the communicativegoal of the analogy hinges on RI(RC) being true (or nott rue)  in  both of  the domains.3.3 A-alogous Context  SpacesRe?1ectlng th i s  analys is  o f  ~--!o~Les, a l l  analogouscontext  spaces have the fo l low lng  s lo t  de f ln l t lons  (amongothers ) .Abst rac t :  This slot contains the genericproposltlon, P, of which the Inltlatlngand analogous c la im are instances.Reflecting the fact that the samepredication must be true of both cla.lms,3Since aceordin~ to this analysis the prime focal pointof the analogy is always the relations (i.e., "actions")being held constant, and a major aspect of an "action" isits cause (reason, intent, or effect of occurrence), anon~orrespondenoe in one of these relations will usuallyinvalidate the point at the analogy.64Relat ions:Proposition:Mappings:the predicate in the abstract slot isfixed; other elements of the abstract arevariables corresponding to the abstractedclansea of which the specific elementsmentionod in the analogous and initiatingclalms are members.
The structure o fthis slot, reflecting this importance ofrelation identity, consists of twosubslots:This slot contains a llst of therelations that are constant and true inthe two domains.This slot contains the genericproposition defined in terms of theconstant predicates and their variablerole fillers.This slot contains a llst of lists, whereeach llst corresponds to a variable ofthe generic proposition, P, and them-ppings of the objects of the domainspecified in the initiating context spaceonto the objects specified in theanalogous context space.3.~ Communicative Goals Served by AnalogiesAn analogY conversational move can carve in fulfillmentof a number of different communicative goals.
Majorroles currently identified are:I.
Means of Explanation2.
Means of Support3- Means of  Implicit Judgement (i.e., conveying anevaluative opinion on a given state-of-a/falrsby comparing it to a situation for whichopinion, either positive or negative, isassumed generally shared)4.
Topic ShiSt by Contrast5.
Hemna for Future-GeneraLizatlon~n maxlm-abldlng discourse, only elements felt to bedirectly analogous cr contrastlve to elements containedin the Inltiat~ng context space are discussed in theanalogous space".
Analogy construction entails a localshift in toplo, and, therefore, in general, a/tardiscussion of the analogous space (iscluding itscomponent parts, such as "supports-of," "challenges-of,,etc.
), we have immediate resumption of  the initiatingcontext space.
(When analogies are used for goals ~ & 5noted above, if the analogy is accepted, then there neednot be a return to the initiating space.
)3.5 IlluetratlonIn this section, I present an analysis of an excerpt inwhich convereants spontaneously generate and argue aboutanalog~les.
The analysis hiEhlights the efficacy ofinteKratlng the structure napping approach with r~ecommunicative gnal directed approach of the context spacetheory.
The excerpt also illustrates the rule-llkebehavior governing continued thematic development of adiscourse after an analogy is given.Excerpt 2 is taken from a taped conversation between twofriends, M and N, wherein M, a British citizen, is tryingto explain to H, an American, the history cf the currentturmoil in Ireland.
The conversational moves involved inthe excerpt (A & D being of the same category) are thefollowing:A: ADalogyB: Challenge of AnalogyC: Defense of A~alogyD: Alternate AralogyE: Return to the initiating context space of theanalogy; with the return belng in the form of a"Further-Development" (as signalled by the clue"sow").H:N:M:N.M:N:M:N:M:N:I.
And, of course, what's made it worse this tima2.
is the British army moving in.
And, moving in,3.
in the first place, as a police force.
It's4.
almost a Vietnam, in a way.5.
But, all within Northern I re land?6.
All within Northern Ireland.
Moving in as a7.
police force, belng seen by everybody as a8.
police force that was going to  favor the9.
Protestants.10.
It'd rather be llke Syria being in Lebanon,11.
rlght?12.
I don't know enough about it to know, maybe.13.
There's - Where, there's a foreign police forceI~.
in one country.
I mean, when you say it's llke15.
Vietnam, I can't take Vietnam.
Vietnam is North16.
Vietnam and South Vietnam.17.
No, I meant war.
You know, moving in and sayln618o we're a police action and actually flg~ting a war19.
when you got there.20.
Oh, well, that's Syria, that's obviously Syria,21.
rlght?
Who are implicitly supporting - not22.
supportlng - 'cause actually it's very similar23.
in Lebanon, right?
You have the Catholics and2~.
the Moslem.
That's right, that's Lebanon.25.
I suppose, yes.26.
You have the Catholics and the Moslem, and then27.
Syria's eomlng in and implicitly supporting the28.
Moslem, because Syria itself is Moslem.29.
Now, England is Protestant?qOf course,d ig ress ions .th i s  does not preclude exp l i c i t l y  noted653.5.1 AnalysisWe ~an begin the analysis with a more formalchaFaoterlzatlon of M's analogy conversational move.The generic proposition underlying N's analogy:$Countryl 81 $Country2$Countryl  R2 NEthnioGroup2Where, the constant  relations are:R1: MOVE-IN-AS-~OLICE-FORCEH2: TAKE-SIDE-OFThe ob jec ts  sapped onto each o ther :Mappings1: England, AmericaMappings2: I re land ,  VietnamMapping=S: Protestants, South Viet~ameseThe communicative goal served by the analogy:Negative Evaluation on EnglandIn  re jec t ion  of the ana logy ,  N c la ims  that  in  the Vietnamcase a lone the fo l low ing  three  re la t ions  occur :R3: FOREIGN INVASIONRq: AID AGAINST FOREIGN INVASIONRS: CAUSEWhere, R5 la  a re la t ion  between re la t ions ,  i .
e .
,  83 CAUSEa~ 5 .The purpose of M's analogy is to hig~llght her negativeassessment of England in the Ireland altuatlon (asidentified by her utterance, "And, whatOs made it worsethis tlme ...").
M attempts to accomplish this bymapplng the presummed acknowledged negative assessment ofAmerica in Vietnam onto England.
Such a negativeevaluative ~apping, however, can only occur of course ifone oondenns Amer ica ' s  invo lvement  in  Vietnam.
N den iessuch a presummed negat iv i ty  by argu ing  that  i t  i sposs ib le  to view Amer ica ' s  invo lvement  in  Vietnam a~coming to the a id  of  a count ry  under fo re ign  a t tack  ~( i .e .
,  as a pos i t i ve  ra ther  than a negat ive  ac t ) .Thus, argues  N, the "cause" re la t ions  of  the ac ts  be ingheld constant  between the two domain~ ( i .e .
,  enteran~e asa police force but being partisan) are qu i te  different inthe two cases.
And, in the Vietnam case, the cause ofthe act obviates any common negativity associated withsuch "unfair police force treatment."
There is nonegativity of America to map onto England, and the wholepurpose of the analogy has failed.
Hence, according to5Rq can be thought of as another way of loo~.ing at R1and R2.
Alternatively, it could be thought of asreplacing RI and R2, since when one country invadesanother, we do ~ot usually co~slder third partyintervention as mere "coming in as a polio= force andtaklng the slde of," but rather as an entrance into anongoing war.
However, I think in one light one oen viewthe relations of 81 and R2 holding in either an internalor external war.6Most criticisms of America's involvement in Vietnamrest on viewing it as an act of intervention in theinternal affairs of a country aga lns t  the will of half oEi t s  people.H, the analogy in thls discourse context is vacuous an~warrants rejectlon 7.After N's rejection o~ M'e analogy, and N's offering o~"an alternative analogy , which is somewhat accepted by M ~as predicted by the gr--~r's analysis of  an analogyconversat iona l  move u~ed for  purposes o revaluatlon/Justlficatlon, it is time to have ~heinitiating subject of the analogy returned-to (i.e., i~is time to return to the subject of Br~Italn's moving intoIreland)The return, on Line 28, in the for= of "Further-Development," constitutes a subordinating shaft ~romdlsoussion of ~e event of the British a~my enteringIreland onto dlsousslon of England's underlyingmot~ivatlons and reasons for engaging in this event.The form of return illustrates Lakoff & Johnson's notionof a metaphor creating new meanlngs for u~, and itsability to "induce new similarities" \[12\].
That is, itexemplifies a conversant's attempt to map new knowledgeonto pre-existing knowledge of a domain based upon, andinduced by, an analogy ,,,de to this domain.
Anappropriate extended paraphrase= of N's question on Line28 is: "Okay, so we accept Syria's presence in Lebanonas a better analogy for England's presence in Ireland.Now, we know, or have Just shown that Syria's bias to theMoslems can be explained by the fact that Syria herselfis Moslem.
It has been stated that England, in a sinMilarsltuatl~R , is favoring Protestants.
can we then carry?
otlves'" over as well in the analogy?
That is, can wethen infer that  England is Favoring the Protestantsbecause she is Protestant?
"7In a d i f fe rent  context ,  perhaps ,  i .e .
,  had the ana logybeen c i ted  for  a d i f fe rent  purpose,  N may have acceptedi t .
In add i t ion ,  i t  i s  i apor tant  to recognize ~atthough there are mmerous o~her non-correspondencesbetween the Amlrioan-Vletnam and England-L-=landsituations (e.g., the respective geographlc distancesi nvo lved) ,  N's randoa se lec t ion  o f  any one of  these  o thernonnorresponding relations (irrespective of thelrcomplexlty) would not have necessarily led to effeotlvecommunication or a reason to reject the analogy.8N'= citing of this alternative analogy is supportiveof the grammar's analysis that the purpose of an analogyis vital to Its acceptance, slope, it happens that Nviews Syr ia ' s  in tervent ion  in  Lebanon qu i te  negat ive ly :thus ,  her cho?ce of th i s  domain where (An her view) i s=reis p lenty  of negat iv i ty  to ~p.9Not ice,  by the way, that  in  tsr '~a of  "a t~r ibuteident i ty , "  Ami t ies  i s  a =mob c loser  la tch  to England thanSyria la .
This example supports the theory that"a t t r ibute  ident i ty"  play= a milLimal ro le  in  ana logy~appings .10The fac t  that  M at tempts  to map a "cause"  re la t ionbetween the two domains, fu r ther  suppor ts  the theory  thati t  i s  cor respondence o f  sohesat i za t lon  or  re la t ionsbetween dosmins,  ra ther  than ob jec t  ident i ty ,  that  i s  agovern ing  c r i te r ia  in  ana logy const ruct ion  andeva luat ion .66Sur face  Lingulstlc PhenomenaThe rules of reference encoded in the context spacegrammar do not complement traditional pronominallzatlontheories which are based on criteria of recency andresulting potential semantic amblguities.
Rather, therules are more in llne with the theory proposed by Olsonwho states that "words designate, signal, or specify anintended referent relative to the set of alternativesfrom which it must be differentiated" \[17, p.26~\].
Thecontext space grammar is able to delineate this set ofalternatives governlng a speaker's choice (and listener'sresolution) of a referring expresslon ;I by continuallyupdating its model of the discourse based on itsknowledge of the effects associated with different typesof conversational moves.Its rule of reference, relevant to current discussion,is:Only elements in a currently active andcontrolling context space pair are in the set ofalternatives vying for pronominal and closedelctic referring expressions.The context space grammar continually updates its modelof the discourse so that at any given point it knowswhich preceding utterances are currently in the activeand controlling context spaces.
Discourse model updatingis governed by the effects of a conversational move.Major effects of most conversational moves are:o changes to the influential statuses of precedingcontext spaces;changes to focus level assignments ofconstituents of the utterances contained inthese Spaces;o establlshment of new context spaces;the creation of outstanding discourseexpectations corresponding to likely subsequentconversational moves.The effects of initiating an analogy conversational moveare to:put the initiating context space in aControllln~ state (denoting its foreground roleduring the processing of the analogous space);o create a new Active context space to contain theforthcoming analogous utterances;create the discourse expectation that uponcompletion of the analogy, discussion of theinitiating context space will be resummed(except in cases of communicative goals q and 5noted above).Endin~ an analogy conversational move, makes available tothe grammar the "Resume-lnitlatlng" discourseexpectation, created when the analogy was firstgenerated.
The effects of choosing this discourseexpactation are to:11Lacking from thls theory, however, but hopefully tobe inc luded  a t  a la ter  date ,  i s  Webber 's  not ion  o f  evokedentities \ [27\]  (i.e., entities not previously mentioned inthe discourse but which are derivative from it -especially, quantified sets).67o Close the analogous context space (denoting thatthe space no longer plays a foreground discourserole);o reinstantlate the initiating context space asActive.Excerpt 3 illustrates how the grammar's rule of referenceand its updating actions for analo@les explain someseeming surprising surface linguistic forms used after anana lo~ in the discourse.
The excerpt is taken from aninformal conversation between two friends.
In thediscussion, G is explaining to J the workings of aparticle accelerator.
Under current discussion is thecavity of the accelerator through which protons are sentand accelerated.
Particular attention should be given toG's referring expressions on Line 8 of the excerpt.ExcerotG:j.G:j.G:I.
It's just a pure electrostatic field, which,2.
between two points, and the proton accelerates3.
through the electrostatic potential.~.
Okay.5.
Same physical law as if you drop a ball.
It6.
accelerates through a gravitational potential.7.
Okay.8: And the only important point here is that9.
the potential is maintained with this10.
Cockcroft-Walton unit.L ines  1 - 3:L ines  5 - 6 :L ines  8 - 10:Context Space CI, The Initiating ~pace.Context Space C2, The Analogous Space.Context Space CI, The Resumption.On Line 9, G refers to the "electrostatic potential" lastmentioned on Line 3. with the unmodified, close deictlcreferring expression 12 "the potential," despite the factthat  ln terven ing~ty  on L ine 5 he had re ferenced?
g rav i ta t iona l  potent ia l , "  a potent ia l  semant iccontender  fo r  the  unmodi f ied  noun phrase .
In  add i t ion ,  Guses the close delctic "here" to refer to context spaceCI, though in terms of linear order, context space C2,the analogous context space, is the closer context space.Both these surface linguistic phenomena are explainableand predictable by the context space theory.
Line 8fulfills the discourse expectation of resummlr~discussion of the initiating context space of theana logy .
As noted ,  the  e f fec ts  o f  such a move are  toc lose  the ana logous  context  space  (here ,  C2) and toreassign the initiating space (here, CI) an activestatus.
As noted, only elements of an active orcontrolling context space are viable contenders forpronominal and close deictlc references; elements ofclosed context spaces are not.
Hence, despite criteriaof recency and resulting potentials of semanticambiguity, G's references unambiguously refer to elementsof CI, the active foregrounded context space in thediscourse model.As a second example of speakers ualng close deictlcs torefer to  elements of the initiating context space of ananalogy, and corresponding use of far deictics forelements of the analogous space, lets re-consider Excerpt1, repeated below.12Th e grammar cons iders  nThe X" a c lose  de ic t l cre ference  as i t  i s  o f ten  used as a comple~ment to  "ThatX,"  a c lear  fa r  de ic t i c  express ion  \ [21\ ]A:B:C:I. I think if you're going to marry someone in the2.
Hindu tradition, you have to - Well, you -They3.
say you give money to the family, to the glrl,q.
but in essence, you actually ~uy her.5.
It's the same in the Western tradition.
You6.
know, you see these greasy fat millionaires going7.
around with ~ilm stars, right?
They've8.
essentially bought them by their status (?money).9.
No, but, there, the women is selling herself.10.
In these societies, the woman isn't selling11.
herself, her parents  are selling her.Lines ; - 5: Context Space CI, The Initiating Space.Lines 5 - 8: Context Space C3, The Analogous Space.LAnes 9 - 11: Context Space C3, The Challenge Space.On Line 9, C rejects B's analogy (as signalled by her useOf the c lue  words, "t~o, but" )  by c i t ing  anonoorrespondence of re la t ions  between the two domains.Notice that in the rejection, C uses the far daictic?
there = to refer to an element of the linearly closeanalogous context space, C2,t3 and that she uses theclone de~ctlc "these" to refer to an 1~lement~ of thelinearly far initiating context space, CI .The grnmm"r models C's move on Line 9 by processing the?
Challenge- Analogy-Hap plngs" (CAM) conversational movedef ined  in its d iscourse  network.
This move i s  asubcategory of the grammar' s Challenge move category.Since this type of analogy challenge entails contrastingconstituents of  both the initiatlng and ana logs  contextspaces'% the grammar must dec ide  which of  the two spacesshould be in a controlling status, i.e., which spaceshould serve as the frame of reference for subsequentprocessing.
Reflecting the higher influential status ofthe initiating context space, the grammar chooses it asits reference frame Is.As such, on its transition path for the CAM move, move,the gr-mnutr"13This conversation was recorded in Switzerland, and interms of  a locative use of  delctics, Western society isthe closer rather than Hindu society.
Thus, the choiceof deict?c cannot be explained by appeal to externalreference criteria.1~Notlce, however, that C does not use the close "delctlc "here," though it is a better contrastlve termwith "there" than is =these."
The rule of using closedelctlcs seems to be slightly constrained in that if thereferent of "here = is a location, and the s~aker  is notin the location being referenced, then, s/he cannot use?
here.
"15Zn a different type of analogy challenge, forexample, one could simply deny the truth of the smalo~usutterances.16Zn the canes of  Pre-Generalizatlon and Topic-Contrast-Shlft analogies, it is only after the analogyhas been accepted that the analogous space is allowed tousurp the foreground role of the initiating contextspace.O puts  the cur rent ly  ac t ive  context  space ( i .e .
,the ana logous  context  space) in  as ta te  ( re f lec t ing  i t s  new background ro le ) ;c leaves  the in i t ia t ing  space in  i t s  Cont ro l l ings ta te  ( I .
e .
,  i t  has been serv ing  as thereference frame for the ana logy) ;o creates a new Active context space in which toput the challenge about to be put forward.Performing such u~latlng actions, and using ?ts rule thatonly elements in a controlling or active space are viablecontenders for  close delotlc and pronominal references,enables the grammar to correctly model, explain, andpredict C's reference forms on Lines 9 11 of theexcerpt.5 Conclus ionIn this paper I have of fe red  a treatment of analogieswithin spontaneous dlalo6ues.
In  order to do thls Ifirst proposed a context space model of discourse.
Inthe model discourse utterances are partitioned intodiscrete discourse units based on the communicative goalthat they serve in the discussion.
All communicativeacts effect the precedlng discourse context and I haveshown that by tracking these effects the grammar canspecify a frame of reference for subsequent discussion.Then, a structure-~applng approach tO analogies wasdiscussed.
In this approach it is claimed that the focusof an analogy is on system~ of relatlonships betweenobjects, rather than on attributes of objects.
Analysisof  naturally occur r ing  analogies supported this claim.
Ithen showed that the context space theory's communicativegoal analysis of discourse enabled the theory to gobeyond the struoture-mapplng approach by providing afu r ther  specification of waich klnds of relationships aremost likely to be Included in description of an analogy.?
Lastly, Z presented a number of excerpts taken fromnaturally ongoing discourse and showed how the contextspace analysis provided a cogent explanation for thetypes Of analogies found in dlsoouree, the types Ofre Jemt?ons g iven  tO them, the ru le - l i ke  themat icdevelopment of a dlsoourse after an a~alogy, and thesurface llngulstlc forms used in these development.In conclusion, analyzing speakers spontaneous generationof analogies and other conversants' reaotlons to them,provides ua an usua l ly  d i rec t  form by which accessindividuals' implicit criteria for analogies.
Theseexchanges revea l  what conversants  be l ieve  analogies areresponsible for and thereby what i~ormatlon they need toconvey.68zEvv~ENCES1.
Auatln J.L.
~ow To Do T~n~s With Words.
OxfordUniversity Press, 1962.2.
Black M. Metaphor rev is i ted .
Metaphor andThought,1979.3.
Carbonell J. Metaphor - A key to extenelble semanticanalysis.
Proceedings of the 18th Annual Meeting of theACL, 1980, pp.
17-21,4.
Cohen P. PerrauZt R. Elements of  a p lan-ha~ed theoryof speech acts.
~ ~aienee i (1979), 177-212.24.
Searle J.B.
Speech Acts.
Cambridge UniversityPress, 1969.25.
Sternberg R.J .
Component processes in analogicalreasoning.
Psvcholo~c~l Review 8~ (1977), 353-378.26.
Toulmln S. The Uses 9?
Ar lene .
CambridgeUniversity Press, 1958.27.
Webber B.
~ formal aoDraoah tO d i scourse  ana~hora.Ph.D.
Th., Harvard Un ivers i ty ,  1978.28.
Winston P.H.
Learning and reasoning by analogy.~.
Cohen R. Understanding arguments.CSCSI, Canadian Society for Computational Studies ofIntelligence, 1980.6.
Gentner D. The structure of analogical models inscience.
~51,  Bolt Beranek and Newman Inc., 1980.7.
Gentner D. Metaphor as structure - preservingmapping.
Proceedings American Psychological Association,1980.8.
Gentner D. Are scientific analogies metaphors?Problems and Perspectives, 1981.9.
GFlce, H. P. Logic and conversation.
Syntax andSemantics, 1975 ?10.
H~l iday  M. A. K. Options and functions in theenglish clause.
8RNO Studies in Enmllsh 8 (1969), .11.
Hobbs J. Metaphor schemata, and selectiveinferenolng.
Start\[oral Research Isstltute, 1979.12.
LakofT G. Johnson M. Metavhor?
We Live BY.
TheUniversity of Chicago Press, 1980.13.
Miller G.A.
Images and models: Similes andmetaphors.
Metaphor and Thought,1979, pp.
202-250.I~.
Minsky M. A framework for  represent ing  knowledge.The Psychology of Computer V is ion ,  1975.15.
Neisser U.
~ ~svcholoav.
Meredith PublishingCompany, 1967.16.
Lindsay P. Norman D. Human ~ Fr~cessln=.Academic Press, 1972.17.
Olscn D. Language and thought: aspects of acognitive theory of semantios.
~ Review 77," (1970), 2~7-273.18.
Ortony A.
Beyond literal similarity.
PsychologicalReview 86 (1979), 161-180.Proceedings of  the ~ of / ,~  ACM ~l ,  12 (1980),  .29.
Woods W. A. T rans i t ion  network grammars for  natura llanguage ana lys i s .
Comm.
ACM / /  ( 1970), 591-606.69?
