PHONY: A Heurist ic Phonological Analyzer*Lee A. BecketIndiana UniversityDOMAIN AND TASKPHONY is a program to do phonologicalanalysis.
Within the generative model ofgrammar the function of the phonologicalcomponent is to assign a phoneticrepresentat ion to an utterance by modifyingthe underlying representat ions (URs) of itsconst ituent morphemes.
Morphemes are theminimal meaning units of language, i.e.
thesmallest units in the expression systemwhich can be correlated with any part of thecontent system, e.g.
un+tir+ing+ly.
URs areabstract entit ies which contain theidiosyncratic information aboutpronounciat ions of morphemes.
(1)PHONOLOGICALUnderlying COMPONENT PhoneticRepresentat ions .
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
> Representat ions(URs) (rules)Phonological analysis attempts to determinethe nature of the URs and to discover thegeneral pr inciples or rules that relate themto the phonetic representations.
(2)URsPronounciat ions PHONY(phonological analRulesThe input to PHONY are pronounciat ions ofwords and phrases upon which a prel iminarymorphological  analysis has been completed.They have been divided into morphemes, anddif ferent instances of the same morphemehave been associated.
These are representedas strings of phonetic symbols includingmorpheme- and word-boundaries.
Indices areused to associate various instances of thesame morpheme.
(3)# i s a r a p # # 1 s a r a b + 2 d a ## 1 s a r a v + 3 u # # 1 s a rav  + 4 e ## 5 a d + 6 a # # 5 a t # ,,,The output of PHONY is a set of phonologicalrules or regularit ies in the data, as wellas a set of 'underlying representations'for the morphemes.
The phonological  rulesgenerate the various pronounciat ions of themorphemes from their underlyingrepresentations.
*This research was supported in part byNational Science Foundation grantnumber MCS 81-02291.REPRESENTATIONIn Generat ive Phonology sounds arerepresented as matrices of featurespecif ications, the phonetic symbols being ashorthand for these matrices.
(4)- syllabic+ consonanta~- continuant+ voice- nasal+ anterior+ coronalThe set of 'dist inctive features' proposedby Chomsky and Halle \[2\] were claimed to besuff ic ient to dist inguish the sounds in anylanguage.
Further these features were allc laimed to have two values; the feature waseither present or absent.
There has been afair aunount of dispute about the specif icfeatures, and several addit ional ones havebeen proposed, e.g.
gravity, advanced tongueroot.
There has also been considerabledispute about whether the features are allbinary.
Nevertheless most phonologists usethe original  b inary features, often with afew addit ional ones.
Phonological rules areoperat ions upon sets of these featurematr ices by which feature specif icat ions areassigned to the matr ix when it appears in acertain context.
The rule expressed (inshorthand) normally as(e)S -> S /ji (read s becomes s in posit ionimmediately before i)would be expressed as follows using featurematrices.
(7)E coronal anterio l syllabi  anterior I ~  high 2 / - "  high I strident ~ back JThe representat ion provides a language inwhich to express hypotheses.
The task is tofind statements in this language to expressthe data.
Thus the representat ionimpl ic it ly defines the search space.
Thesearch space is restr icted by the followingconstraint on the 'distance' between a URand its pronounciations.
Every featurespeci f icat ion in the UR must be present in a'corresponding' segment in at least one ofthe phonetic forms.
Consider, for example,morpheme i from (3) above: it ham threepronounciat ions \[sarap\], \[sarab\], \[sarav\].23This constraint restr icts its possible URsto /sarap/, /sarah/, /sarav/, /saraf/.Even If\] does not appear in any of thepronouciat ions of this morpheme, its+cont inuant speci f icat ion occurs in Iv\] andits -voice speci f icat ion occurs in \[p\]; itsother feature speci f icat ions are common to\[p\], Cb\], Iv\].
This constraint is weakerthan the "strong alternat ion condit ion" (cf.\[4\]), which would restr ict the final URsegment to be /p/, /b/, or /V/o The term"alternation" wil l  be important of thed iscuss ion below; here \[p\] vs. \[b\] vs. Iv\]is an alternation.THE PROBLEM OF MULTIPLE SOLUTIONSIt should be pointed out that most oftenseveral sets of combinat ions of underly ingrepresentat ions and phonological  rules canbe used to derive the same pronounciat ions.This could happen in several ways.
It couldbe unclear what the UR is, and di f ferent URstogether winh di f ferent  rules could derivethat same pronounciatons, i.e.
thed i rect ional i ty  of the rule could be unclear.Consider morpheme 5 from (3) above:(8)Pronounciat ions: #ad?a# #at#Solut ion I: UR /ad/ & Rule d -, t / #Solut ion 2: UR /at/ & Rule t -> d / a aThe symbol # represents a word boundary, andthe symbol + represents a morpheme boundary,The di f ference in the pronounciat ion of thelast segment of this morpheme, d vs. t, iscal led an alternation.
Given thisalternation, one could make two hypotheses.One could hypothesize that the UR is /ad/and that there is a rule which changes d tot when it occurs at the end of a word, orone could hypothesize that the UR is /at/and that there is a rule which changes t tod between a's.
Also some phenomena could beexplained by a single more general rule orby several more specif ic rules.Generally, there are two approaches thatcould be taken to deal with the problem ofmult ip le possible solutions.
One couldattempt to impose restr ict ions on  what couldconst i tute a val id solution, or one coulduse an evaluat ion procedure to decide incases of mult iple possible solutions.
Onecould also use both of these approaches; inwhich case the more restriction, the lessevaluat ion is necessary.
An or ig inal  singleevaluat ion cr i ter ion - 'simplicity', asmani fested in the number of featurespeci f icat ions used - has not provedworkable.
ALso no part icular proposedrestr ict ions have been embraced by the v~stmajor i ty  of phonologists.Individual phonologists are general ly  guidedin their evaluat ions of solutions, i.e.
setsof rules and URs, by various criteria.
Theweight ing of these cr iter ia is left open.In this connect ion the 'codifying function'of the development of expert systems ispart icu lary relevant, i.e.
in order to beput into a program the cr i ter ia must beformalized and weighted.
j5\]  Although it hassometimes been cla imed that no  set ofd iscovery procedures can be suff ic ient tOproduce phonological  analyses, this programis intended to demonstrate the feasibi l i tyof a procedural  def in i t ion of the theory.The three most widely used cr i ter ia and themanner in which they are embedded in PHONYwi l l  now be discussed.Phonological  Predictabi l i tyThis involves the preference of solut ionsbased phonological  environment rather thanto those in which reference is made tomorphologica l  or lexical categories orinvolving the d iv is ion of the lexicon intoarbi t rary classes.
In other words, in doingphonologica l  analysis the categor ies ormeanings of morphemes wil l  not beconsidered, unless no solut ion can be foundbased on just the sounds or sound sequencesinvolved.
This cr i ter ion is embodied inPHONY, since no information about morpholog-ical or syntact ic categor ies is avai lable toPHONY.
If PHONY cannot handle ana l ternat ion by reference to phonologicalenvironment, it wi l l  return that this is an' interesting case'.
The abi l i ty to ident i fythe *interesting cases' is a most valuableone, since these are often the cases thatlead to theory modif icat ion.
It should bement ioned that PHONY could readi ly beextended (Extension I) to handle a certa inrange of syntact ical ly  or morpholog ica l lyt r iggered phonological  rules.
This wouldinvolve including in the input informat ionabout syntactic category, and, whererelevant, morphologica l  category of theconst i tuent  morphemes.
This informatonwould be ignored unless PHONY was unable toproduce a solution, i.e.
would have returned" interest ing cases"'.
It would then searchfor general izat ions based on thesecategories.NaturalnessThis involves the use of knoweldge aboutwhich proceeses are 'natural' to decidebetween alternate solutions, i.e.
solut ionsinvolving natural processes are preferred.A process found in many languages is judgedto be 'natural'.
A l though natural  processesare often phonet ica l ly  plausible, this isnot always the case.
It should be ment ionedthat not only is 'naturalness' an arbiter incase of several possible solutions, but itis also a heur ist ic  to lead the invest igatorto plausible hypotheses which he can pursue.PHONY contains a catalogue of naturalprocesses.
When an a l ternat ion looks as ifit might be the result  of one of theseprocesses, the entire input corpus ofstr ings is tested to see.if  this hypothesisis valid.S impl ic i ty'Simplicity' was ment ioned above, whi le itis no longer the only criterion, it is sti l la pr imary one.
It is ref lected in PHONY ina series of attempts to make rules moregeneral, i.e.
combine several hypothes izedrules into a single hypothes ized rule.
Themore general rules require fewer featurespecif ications.
Also the smaller number of24ru les  can lead to a reduced number  offeature spec i f i cat ions .The var ious  proposed  const ra in ts  on what  canbe va l id  so lut ions  genera l ly  wou ld  cor re la tew i th  the d i f fe rences  in the test ing  processof  PHONY.
Most  of these invo lve d i f fe rencesin a l lowable  o rder ings  of  ru les (e.g.
'unrest r ic ted ext r ins ic  order ing' ,  'freereapp l icat ion ' ,  'd irect  mapping' ;  cf.
\[3\]).At  present  PHONY's  test ing  process  invo lvescheck ing  if hypothes ized  rules hold, i.e.
donot  have counterexemples ,  in the phonet icrepresentat ions  (such a c r i te r ion  d isa l lowsopac i ty  of  type l; of.
\[4\]).
PHONY cou ld  beextended (Extens ion 2) to a l low the user  tochoose  from several  of  the proposedconst ra ints .
Th is  would  invo lve us ingd i f fe rent  test ing  funct ions.
Th is  extens ionwould  a l low ana lyses  of the same data  underd i f fe rent  const ra in ts  to eas i ly  be compared.Add i t iona l ly ,  new const ra in ts  could  be addedand tested.STRUCTURE OF PHONYPHONY can be d iv ided into three major  parts~ALTFINDER,  NATMATCH, and RULERED.ALTF INDERALTF INDER takes the input st ing of  phonet icsymbols  and indices ind icat ing  instances  ofthe same morpheme,  as in (3), and returnsfor each morpheme in turn a representat ioninc lud ing  the non-a l te rnat ing  segments  andl ist  o f  a l te rnat ions  w i th  the contexts  inwh ich  each a l te rnant  occurs, for example,for morpheme I, as in (9).
(9)sara p ~ b -~ v# sarap # # sarah + da # # sarav + u ## sarav ?
e #Th is  process  invo lves  compar ing  in turn eachinstance of  a g iven  key morpheme wi th  thecur rent  hypothes ized  under ly ingrepresentat ion  for that  morpheme, and foreach case of a l te rnat ion  stor ing in N groupsthe d i f fe rent  context  str ings in wh ich  the Na l te rnants  occur.
The compar i son  iscompl ica ted  by the common processes  ofepenthes is  ( inser t ion  of a segment) ande l i s ion  (delet ion of a segment),  andoccas iona l ly  by the much more rare lyoccur r ing  methathes is  ( in terchange in thepos i t ions  of  two segments) .
These  processesare i l lus t ra ted  in (10).
(10)G iven  UR / t a r i s k /,Epenthes is  ~ -> a \[trisk\]\[tarisak\] wou ld  .~nv?Ive E l i s ion  a ->\ [ tar iks\ ]  " Methathes is  sk -> ksThere fore  in cases where  the segments be ingcompared  are not ident ica l  it is necessaryto ascer ta in  whether  they are var iants  of as ingle under ly ing  segment  or one of  theseprocesses  has appl ied.
The poss ib i l i t i es  arei l lus t rated in (11).
(ii)G iven  two pronounc ia t ions  of  the samemorpheme\[ A B C .
.
.
\] where  A is assoc ia ted  w i th  D\[ D E F .
.
.
\] and B is not  ident ica l  to E,There  are four poss ib le  re lat ionsh ips :Bi c... A\B\cl " ' "D E F ... D E F ...A B C ... A B C ...The cr i ter ia  used to dec ide between thesere la t ionsh ips  are (a) degree of  s imi la r i tyin each of  the conce ivab le  assoc iat ions ,  and(b) a measure  of  the s imi la r i ty  of the restof  the str ings for each of the conce ivab leassoc iat ions .ALTF INDER y ie lds  a l ist  of a l te rnat ionsbased  on segments,  as in (9).
Th is  is thenconver ted  into a l ist  of  a l te rnat ions  basedon features.
(12)Pp -contextsb vb -contexts  v -contexts,U, VOICE ?b -contexts  & v -contexts  p -contextsCONTINUANT +v -contexts  b -contexts  & p -contextsS ince every one of  the a l te rnat ions  in theformer must  d i f fe r  by at least  one feature,the new l ist  must  conta in  as manya l te rnat ions  and normal ly  conta ins  morea l ternat ions ,  Where  prev ious ly  for eacha l te rnat ion  in a segment  there was a l ist  ofs t r ings  where  each a l te rnant  occurred,  nowfor each a l te rnat ion  in a feature there aretwo l ists  - one w i th  the str ings where  apos i t i ve  va lue for that  feature occur red  andthe other  where  a negat ive  va lue  occurred.It should  be noted that the e lements  ofthese lists, i.e.
str ings,  together  w i th  thefeature a l ternat ing,  its value, and anind icat ion  of wh ich  segment  in the str ingconta ins  the feature, are al l  potent ia l l yrules.
They  bear  the same in format ion  ass tandard  phono log ica l  rules.
Compare  therepresentat ions  in (13); these are for thea l te rnat ions  in morpheme 5 in (3).25(13)# a d + a # # a t #i I I 10 I 0 0 00 0 0 0 00 0 0 0 00 0 0 0 00 1 0 1 0 0 l 00 O 1 0 0 0 0 0 1 00 1 0 0 l 0 0 l 0 00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 00 1 0 0 l 0 0 1 0 00 1 0 0 1 0 0 i 0 00 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 I O"0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 1 00 1 i 0 1 0 VOICE 0 I 0 00 i 0 0 1 0 0 1 0 00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 00 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0to the  rules t -> d / # a + a # d -> t / # a# , i.e.
respectively,  one can't  pronounce tin the environment # a + a # but rather mustpronounce d, and one can't  pronounce d inthe environment # a # but rather mustpronounce t. The latter rule and the secondrepresentat ion (both without  the init ialtwo segments - in the interests of space) in(13) are juxtaposed in (14).
(14)1000011000000 1000000000000000D-> T /  #It is often the case that one or both ofthese potent ia l  'rules' wi l l  be valid, i.e.would be genera l izat ions  that would holdover the pronounciat ions represented in theinput.
These 'rules' would, however, bemuch less general  than those which are foundin phonological  analyses.
It is assumedthat speaker /hearer / language learners canand do general ize from these specif ic  casesto form more general  rules.
If this werenot the case how could speakers correct lypronounce morphemes in new environments.With in  the theory the cr i ter ion ofs impl ic i ty is sensit ive to thesegenera l izat ions in that such genera l izat ionsreduce the number of feature specif i -cations.
With in PHONY the preference formore general  rules is mani fested bycont inual ly  trying to generate and test moregeneral  rules result ing from the coalesc ingor combining of two or more specif ic rules.Recall  that the representat ion of thesegments involved a feature matr ix withposit ive or negative speci f icat ions for eachfeature.
In order to generate more generalrules this repuesentat ion is modi f ied to twomatr ices for each segment - one represent ingthose features which must be posi t ive in theenvironment and the other for those featureswhich must be negative.
The genera l i zat ionprocess involves taking the 'greatest commondenominator'  (GCD) of the posit ive andnegative values of the segments of theenvironments of two separate 'rules'.
In theinterests of space an abbreviated example ofthe GCD operat ion is given in (15).
(15)+ .
?
-- ?
?
- + --SYLL i 0 0 1 i 0 0 i 1 0VOICE i 0 l 0 1 0 0 i i 0HIGH 0 1 1 0 l 0 h 1 0 i 0/+ -- ?
-~voIcEI VOICEHIGH 01 00 11 00 ~ \[-S~L\]-'C?HIGH\]/ ~HIGH\] m ~The GCD operat ion has generated a moregeneral  rule.
If the or ig inal  two rules area mani festat ion of a more general  rule, thegenera l ized rule must not involve or makereference to the the init ial  segment of theformer rule.
Not ice also that in the GCDthe VOICE feature does not have to beposit ive or negative; if the two or ig inalrules are a mani festat ion  of a single rulethe speci f icat ion of the VOICE feature inthe a l ternat ing segment must  not berelevant.NATMATCHAfter the a l ternat ions in terms of segmentsthat were output by ALTF INDER have beenchanged into a l ternat ions in terms offeatures (12) and after these have beentransformed from single matr ices into doublematrices, the result ing "rules" are sent toNATMATCH.
NATMATCH compares these "rules"with the data base of common phonolog ica lprocesses.
This involves pattern match ing .If a match occurs the ent ire input corpus istested to find out if it can be establ ishedwhether  this rule or constra int  is val id forthis language.
If Extens ion 2 wereimplemented, this test ing process woulddi f fer  for the d i f ferent  vers ions of thetheory.
If the val id i ty  can be establ ished,the under ly ing representat ions for themorpheme is adjusted and the rule is addedto the l ist of establ ished rules.
Commonprocesses in the data base are organized bythe feature which is alternating, and amongthose processes involving the a l ternat ion ofa given feature the most  common process isl isted and thus tested first.
If it can beshown to be valid, it is added to a l ist ofestabl ished rules.
It should be ment ionedthat ALTFINDER makes use of this list, andif an a l ternat ion that it d iscovers  can behandled by an establ ished rule, thetentat ive underly ing representat ion is soadjusted and the a l ternat ion need not bepassed on to the rest of  the program.
Ifwi th in NATMATCH no matches are found in thedata base or if the va l id i ty  of the matchescannot be establ ished, the a l ternat ion isadded to the list of those as yet notaccounted for.RULEREDRULERED takes the generated "rules" thathave not been establ ished.
It establ isheswhich of these are val id and takes GCDs togeneral ize these as much as possible.
Thisis done by going through all the rulesinvolving a certain feature and generat ingthe minimal number of equivalence c lasses of"rules" and combined (GCDed) "rules" which26are valid.
The result ing general ized ruleshave the largest matrices, i.e.
the largestset of feature specif ication@, which all theforms undergoing these rules have in common.However, the el imination of some of thesefeatures specif icat ion might stil l result inval id rules.
The rules with minimalmatrices, i.e.
minimal number of featurespecif icat ions (recall the "simplicity"criterion), might be termed lowest commmondenominators (LCDs).
These are produced byattempting in turn to el iminate each segmentin GCDed rule; the new rule is generated andtested, and if val id the segment is out,otherwise it remains.
Then an attempt ismade to el iminate in turn each featurespecif icat ion in the remaining segments,again generate and test.
Finally, all theestabl ished rules are combined, wherepossible, according to the many abbreviatoryconventions of Generat ive Phonology (cf.\[2\]).
This is done on the basis of theformal properties of the rules.
For example,if two generated rules are identical exceptthat one has an addit ional segment notpresent in the other, these can be into asingle rule; parentheses al low the inclusionof optional segments in the environment of arule.
In addition, all the rules generatedabove involve a change of only a singlefeature specif ication.
If there are severalrules which are identical except that adif ferent feature specif icat ion is changed,i.e.
the two changes occur in the sameenvironment, they can be combined into asingle rule: in this part icular environmentboth specif icat ions change.DISCUSSIONPHONY is a learning program.
I t  isdiscovering the general principles or rulesgoverning pronounciat ion in a language.
Assuch it can be said to be learning someaspect of a language.
PHONY can be thoughtof either independently or as a part of alarger system designed to learn a language.In the latter context PHONY could help indeciding between ambiguous morphologicaldivisions.
In addition, PHONY could be usedin adjusting, f ine-tuning heurist ics for amorphological  analyzer.
PHONY would act asa "critic" in such a system (cf.
\[i\]).
Twosets of heurist ics might lead to dif ferentmorphological  analyses, which might each beinput to PHONY~ if one input lead toanalysis that had no " interest ing cases",i.e.
problems, while the other did, the setof heurist ics leading to the former analysiswould be supported.Independently PHONY is an expert system.
Itprovides a procedural def init ion ofphonological  theory.
Because of this, itcould be useful to someone desir ing to learnphonological  theory.
It could also be ofuse to working phonologists.
In addit ion toproducing the analyses, it also isolates the' interesting cases', e.g.
morphological lytr iggered rules.
With Extension i it couldalso be used to compare various versions ofthe theory and to test the the effects ofnew modif icat ions of the theory.It should be emphasized that atpresent PHONY is ~ bare program.
It ishoped that it is suff ic ient to demonstratethe feasabi l i ty and worth of the endeavor.It presents a basic approach: contexts inwith alternating segments are transformedinto hypothesized "rules", these can becombined via the GCD operation, furthers impl i f ied to LCDs, and then again combinedaccording to the abbreviatory conventions.There is a "grinding" qual i ty to thisprocess.
Phonologists only resort to asimilar grind, when all their heur ist icshave led to deadends.
The only heurist icpresently incorporated in PHONY is thecomparison to a list of natural processes;this al lows a tremendous shortcut in thesearch More heurist ics obviously could beadded to PHONY.It would also be possible for aMETAPHONY to find heurist ics to be to beused by PHONY.
(Possible decis ion cr iter iato be used in evaluating dif fer ing sets ofheurist ics could be the number of tests ofthe input corpusand the number of" interest ing cases".)
These heurist ics couldimprove eff ic iency of PHONY by obviat ingmuch of the "grinding" process.
At the sametime METAPHONY could also be makingdiscoveries about phonologies of naturallanguages in general.
For example, in theprocess of generat ing LCDs instead of goingsegment by segment and feature by feature,METAPHONY could acquire and incorporate inPHONY knOwledge about what aspects ofpronounciat ion are not/rarely pert inent torules affecting a certain feature.REFERENCESi.
Buchanan, B.G., T.M.
Mitchell, R.G.Smitch, C.R.
Johnson, Jr. 1979.
Models oflearning systems.
Encyclopedia of ComputerScience and Technology.
J. Belzer, A.Holtzman, A. Kent (Eds.).
New York: MarcelDekker, Inc. Vol 3, pp 24-51.2.
Chomsky, N. and M. Halle.
1968.
TheSound Pattern of English.
New York: Harperand Row.3.
Kenstowicz, M. and C. Kisseberth.
1977.Topics in Phonological  Theory.
New York:Academic Press.4.
Kiparsky, P. 1968.
How abstract isphonology?
In O. Fuj imura (Ed.
), ThreeDimensions in Linguist ic Theory.
1973.Tokyo: TEC.5.
Michie.
D. 1980.
Knowledge-basedsystems.
UIUCDCSR-80-1001 and UILU-Eng80-1704 (University of Il l inois).27
