PERSPECTIVES ON PARSING ISSUESJane J. Robinson, ChairArtificial Intelligence CenterSRZ InternationalNowhere is the tension between the two areas of ourfield--computatlon and llnguistlcs--more apparent thanin the issues that arise in connection with parsingnatural language input.
This panel addresses thoseissues from both computational and linguisricperspectives.
Each panelist has submitted a positionpaper on some of the questions that appear below.
Thequestions are loosely grouped in three sections.
Thefirst concentrates on the computational aspect, thesecond on the linguistic aspect, and the third on theirinteractions.A preliminary definition:For purposes of providing common ground or possibly acommon point of departure at the outset, I will defineparsln~ as the assigning of labelled syntactic structureto an input by applying a grammar that definessyntactically well-formed sentences and phrases.
Notethat the question of whether the grammar does otherthings as well is left open.
In this sense, parsing isdistinguished from interpretation, which may take manyforms, such as assigning representations in anunambiguous formal language and integrating thoserepresentations into a data base or into a hearer'sbelief system.The questions:I. Th_.__eeComputational Perspective:What useful purposes, if any, are served bydistinguishing parsing from interpretation?
Iscomputational efficiency increased?
Is system buildingmade easier?
Or is an insistence on parsing ahindrance?
(Can we compute an interpretation betterwithout assigning l&belled syntactic structures?
)Computational linguists, using available computationalequipment that is almost exclusively serial in design,have devised parsing algorithms that involve serialsearch.
Yet it is obvious that many parts of theparsing process could be done in parallel.
How mightnotions of parallel processing, VLSI, and the llkechange our views on parsing?What might motivate our trying to make parsingprocedures simulate human behavior, e.g., by intermixingsyntactic with semantic and pragmatic processing?
Andfor that matter, how do we know what human processing islike?
Do our intuitions agree and are they to bet rus ted?2.
The Lin~uistlc Perspective:Have our tools (computers and formal grammars) warpedour views of what human languages and human languageprocessing may be like?
What legitimate i n fe rencesabout human linguistic competence and performance can wedraw from our experiences with mechanical parsing offormal grammars?Our most efficient parsing algorithms are for contextfree (and even regular) grammars.
Does this suggestthat the core of grammars for natural languages iscontext free or even regular?3.
The Interactions:Why do we usually have one grammar and procedure forsentence recognition and another grammar and procedurefor sentence generation?
Do we need a different pairfor each direction?What is the nature of the relationship between a grammarand a procedure for applying it?
Are we influenced inthe way we devise computational grammars by thealgorithms we expect to apply to them?
Can a grammar bepsychologically valid (validated) independently of theparsing algorithm that works with it?
Can a parsingalgorithm be psychologically valid (validated)independently of ~he grammar?The discussion to follow:The position papers will serve to focus the discussion.That discussion may take the form of a debate about thebest methods for language processing, bot it can also beviewed as gathering of diverse experiences withprocessing n:tural language.95/
