EVALUATION OF NATURAL LANGUAGE INTERFACES TO DATA BASE SYSTEMSBozena Henisz ThompsonCalifornia Institute of TechnologyINTEODUCT~ONIs  eva luat ion ,  l i ke  beauty,  in  the eye of the beholder?The answer i s  fa r  from simple because i t  depends on whoi s  cons idered to be the proper beho lder .
Eva luacors  mayrange from casua l  users  to soc ie ty  as a whole,  w i th  sys -tem builders, sophisticated users, linguists, grant pro-viders, system buyers ,  and o thers  in  between.
Themembers of th l s  panel  are system bu i lders  and l ingu is ts- -  or ra ther  the t~ao fused in to  one - -  but ,  I be l ieve ,in teres ted  in  a l l  or almost a l l  ac tua l  or potent ia lbodies  of eva luators .
One of our co l leagues  expressed aforce fu l  op in ion  wh i le  being a member of a s imi la r  panela t  las t  year ' s  ACL conference:  "Those of us on th i spanel  and other  researchers  in  the f ie ld  s imply don ' thave the r ight  to determine whether a system i s  p ract i -ca l .
Only the users  of such a system can make Chatdeterminat ion .
Only a user  can dec ide whether the hi.\ [natura l  language\]  capab i l i ty  const i tu tes  su f f i c ientadded va lue  to be deemed pract i ca l  Only a user  candec ide i f  the sys tem's  f requency of inappropr ia teresponse i s  su f f i c ient ly  low to be deemed pract i ca l .Only a user  can decide whether the overa l l  NL in terac -t ion ,  taken in to to ,  o f fe rs  enough benef i t s  over a l te r -nat ive  formal in teract ions  to be deemed pract i ca l "  I l l .I t  i s  hard for  me co d i sagree ,  s ince  I argued as fo rce -fu l l y  on the bas i s  of my study of users* eva luat ion  ofmachine t rans la t ion  \[2\] - -  a study which was prompted bythe eva luat ions  of the qua l i ty  of machine t rans la t ion  asviewed by l ingu is ts  and users ,  ranging from 35Z accept -ab le  for  the former to 90Z for the la t te r .
Whet thestudy a l so  showed was chat the pract i ca l i ty  of the out -put could indeed only be judged by the users ,  s ince  evenincomplete and s ty l i s t i ca l l y  very ine legant  t rans la t ionswere found qu i te  use fu l  in p ract i ce  because they,  on theone hand, prov ided,  however c rude ly ,  the in format ionsought by the users ,  and, on the other  hand, the usersthemselves brought knowledge chat made the texts  fa rmore unders tandab le  and use fu l  then might appear co anonspec ia l i s t  l i ngu is t .
But th i s  endorsement on mY per tof the user a~ the u l t imate  judge in  eva luat ions  doesnot prec lude my fu l l y  subscr ib ing  co Norm Sondheimer's\[3\] in t roductory  co~ents  co th i s  panel  s ta t ing  that  to"make progress  as a f ie ld ,  we need to be ab le  Co eva lu -a te . "
We are now less  l i ke ly  co confuse the i ssue  of theeva luat ion  by people l i ke  ourse lves  and the judgment ofthe users ,  less  l i ke ly  to be surpr i sed  at  the d i sc repan-c ies ,  and less likely to be surprised at the users"acceptance of the limitations of our NL interfaces.Also, we are far more aware of the fact chac evaluationsof '~orth" or "quality" have Co be conducted in the con-texts  of the ac tua l ,  perce ived needs.
Zn extens ive  s tu -d ies  on eva luat ion  of innovat ions ,  Moste l le r  \ [4 \ ] ,  therecent ly  re t i red  pres ident  of AAAS, found that  "success-fu l  innovators  bet ter  understand user  needs; \[and\] paymore a t tent ion  to market ing .
.
.
.  "
The same source,however, leads me co the notor ious  d i f f i cu l t ies  ofeva luat ion  g iven the v ide  range of evaluaCors and the i rpurposes.
We are a l l  undoubtedly convinced of the va lueof NLI for  the soc ie ty  as a whole, but the eva luat ion  ofexper iments wi th these in ter faces  i s  another  mat ter .Mosce l ler  was faced wi th  soc ia l ,  soc iomed ica l ,  and medi-ca l  f i e lds .
Let me recount some of the s tud ies  he andh is  team made for  reasons  which w i l l  soon become obv i -ous.
His teem scored a g iven program on a sca le  fromplus ~wo Co minus ~wo with zero meaning there was essen-tially uo ga in .
Accord ing ly ,  a study of de l inquentgirls that identified th ~- buc failed to prevent themfrom del inquency rece ived  a zero.
L ikewise,  a zero wasassigned Co a probation experiment for convictionfor public drunkenness in which three methods wereused: (I) no treatment, (2) an alcoholic clinic, and(3) A lcoho l i cs  Anonymous.
Since the "no t reatment"group performed somewhat bet ter ,  shor t - te rm re fer ra l swere cons idered  of no va lue .
A minus one was g iven to astudy whose resu l t s  were oppos i te  co those hoped fo r :  amajor insurance cOmpany increased  outpat ient  benef i t s  inthe hope of decreas ing  hosp i ta l  cos ts ,  but the outpa-t ient  g roup 's  hosp i ta l  s tays  inc reased .
F ina l ly ,  a dou-b le  p lus  was swarded to an exper iment  invo lv ing  the Salkvacc ine ,  which was, p red ic tab ly ,  very success fu l .
Nowth i s  k ind of eva luat ion  may be jus t i f i ed  when the needsof the soc ie ty  are at  s take .
I have gone in to  thesedeta i l s ,  however, for  the purpose of express ing  theop in ion ,  in  which I know I 'm not a lone,  that  ne la t iveresu l t s  are as important  as pos i t i ve  ones, that  eva lua -t ion  in  our case i s  almost equ iva lent  to the amount ofin fo rmat ion  obta ined in an exper iment .
An exper imentwhose resu l t s  would be to ta l l y  p red ic tab le  would bealmost use less ,  but one w i th  resu l t s  d i f fe rent  frOmthose hoped for  might be embarrass ing but very va luab le .Another c~ent  prompted by those eva luat ions  i s  chatthe application of any rigid, fine scale is totallyinappropriate in the case of NLI evaluations.NLI EVALUATIONSA.
METHODOLOGY AND SOME RESULTSI t  had been w ide ly  taken for  granted some time ago Chatl~LI i s  as good as i s  i t s  g r -~- r ,  and a grammar i s  asgood as i t  i s  ex tens ive .
The spec i f i c  needs of users ,the requ i rements  of spec ia l  tasks  and the l i ke  cook aback seat .
The nature  of ht--an d i scourse  was yet  to beexp lored .
Happi ly ,  we have been in  a d i f fe rent  s i tua -t ion  for some time.
When the REL \[5, 5, 7\] system wasgetting into ?
reasonably sturdy shape with respect tospeed and buss,  I s ta r ted  p lanning exper iments  to tes ti t .
There yes important  l i te ra ture  about d i scourse ,espec ia l l y  in  soc io logy ,  such as the work of Scheg lo f f .I t  was thus c lear  that  success fu l  NLI exper iments  had Cobe based on knowledge of h i ,  an d i scourse .
St was a l soc lear  chat that  was the way Co make the in ter face  morenatura l .
This ass~pt ion  has a l ready  been f ru i t fu l :the NL in ter face  in POL \ [9 \ ] ,  a successor  Co REL, hasa l ready  been extens ive ly  improved as a resu l t  of theEEL-re lated exper iments .Experiments were made in th ree  modes: in  add i t ion  toface - to - face  and human-to-co~puter ,  cera ina l -co - te rmina lcommunication was examined, s ince  at  p resent  chat i s  theonly pract i ca l  mode of access ing  the computer.
Throughear ly  1980, Over 80 sub jec ts ,  80,000 words, and over 50hours were analyzed in g reat  deta i l .
In the fa l l  of1980, another  13 sub jec ts  were tes ted  in the computa-t iona l  mode only ,  adding approx imate ly  20 hours.
Fromthe s tar t ,  the exper iments  were encouraging,  a l thoughl im i ted  to ~wo modes: F-F and T-T.
In teract ions  notonly showed a great  dea l  of s t ruc ture  but extens ives imi la r i t ies  in  both modes, the most important  being theconstancy of the nt=aber of words in  sentences (about70Z); the length  of sentences  (about 7 words) ;  theex is tence  of f ragments (70Z of messages in  F-F and 50Zin T-T containing them); and phatics (10Z of total forF-F and 5Z for T-T).
Thus similarities between the=odes were a candidate for consideration in experimentsin the computational mode, the T-T mode being seeminglyquite far removed from natural F-F.
The sentence havinghistorically been the unit of analysis (and since phat-i t s  were considered of lesser Lmportance from the compu-tational v i~ ,  although of great interest in general),m 7 at tent ion  turned Co f ragments .
REL al lowed for th reenon-sentence type s t ruc tures :  "NP?"
( inc lud ing  numberparsed in to  NP); "a l l /none  or uomber" answers;  and39definitions i n t roduc ib le  by the user  which make ic pos-s ib le  to include ind iv idua l  knowledge and terminology.The ana lys i s  of F-F and T-T protoco ls ,  however, showedthe ex is tence of other  fragment categor ies ,  f ina l lyanalyzed ~nco a dozen categor ies  (see \ [8 \ ] ) .
Since theyconst i tu te  a cons iderab le  amount of F-F conversat ionsand even T-T protoco ls ,  they c lear ly  had co be watchedfor  in computational  exper iments.The experiments for  ac tua l ly  observin~ user -sys temin teract ion  were conducted in the w inter  Cem of  1979/80and produced 21 protoco ls ,  the ana lys i s  of  which wascompared with resu l t s  of e ight  F-F and fou~ T-T exper i -ments.
Another 13 computat ional  experiments done in thefall couf imed the results of  the earlier ones.
TheCask in a l l  three =odes was a rea l  one: loading cargoonto a sh ip ,  the data coming from the actua l  enviroomentof loading U.S. navy ships by a group in San Diego, Cal-ifornia.
In the F-F and T-T exper iments ,  ~n,~o personswere involved -- one given cargo item~ Co be loaded, theother infot~nation about decks (details in \[8\]).
In thecomputational mode (H-C) the ship data was in ~he com-puter and the l i s t  of cargo to be loaded was handed Cothe subjects, all with Caltech background.
Detailsbeing ava i lab le  elsewhere andspace  l imi ted here,  onlysome major resu l t s  are given here.
Table 1 shows thecomparison of the three modes.TABLE 1~-__~ T-__/~ .
- cSentence length 6.8 6.I 7.8Message length 9.5 10.3 7.0Frequent length 2.7 2.8 2.8Z words in  sentences 68.8 72.8 89.3Z words in fragments 17.2 21.1 10.7Toca~ AvR.
~ota~ Avt.
ToCa~ Ave,Messages 5574 697 310 78 1093 52Parsed & nonparsed 1615 77Sentences 5302 663 385 77 882 42Fragments 3253 402 230 58 211 10Phatics (includingconnectors & tags)  48A2 605 148 37 46 2Total ~ota\ [  TotalWords in messages 49800 3285 8525Words in sentences 34266 2393 6880Words in  f ra~encs  8584 694 823As can be seen, severa l  s ta t i s t i cs  show s ia i la r i t ias :sentence length,  message length,  fragment length ,  per -centage of words in sentences and f ragments.
The c lose -ness of the average of messages in T-T and parsed anduonparsed inputs in H--C is striking.Table 2 (the meaning of abbreviations is given below thecable) deals with fragments.
Zt i s  most ly self-explanatory, as i s  the absence of dsfiniclons from ?-Fand T-T (although some abbreviations used there fall inthis category) and the absence of  some other categor iesfrom T-T and K-C. At lease ~wo comaents, however, arenecessary .
The surpr i s ing ly  low use of te rse  quest ions?n H-C may be accounted for  by the tendency toward aformal style in compuCacionnl in teract ion .
The de f in i -t ions  used were o f ten  of qu i te  complex character ,a l though far  fever  than could be hoped for  dueapparent ly  to lack of fami l ia r i ty  with th i s  capab i l i ty .The complex character  of de f in i t ions  undoubtedly hadsome e f fec t  on the length of sentences in the H-C mode.dTABLE 2F-F T-T H-CTota~ ~l TOCa ~ ; TOCa tg 532 ?6.4 10 4.3ADD 425 13.
I 41 17.8CORE 56 1 ?
7COMP 95 2.9 2 .9SELF I14 3.5T~ 571 17.6 67 29.1TQ 4li 12.5 31 13.4TI 297 9 .
1 48 20 .
9FS 413 12.7 23 I0.0TEUN 339 I0.4 9 3.9DrYp 4~2 148C 1935 34T 3191 37 o867 27.8, 30 12,453 22.0Abbrev iat ionsE (Echo): An ezacc or par t ia l  repet i t ion  of usua l lythe other  speaker ' s  s t r ing .
Often an NP, but i tmay be an e l l ip t i ca l  s t ruc ture  of var ious  forms.ADD (Added ~nformat iou):  An e l l ip t i ca l  s t ruc ture ,o f ten  NP, used to c la r i f  7 or complete a prev iousut terance ,  o f ten  ode" s own, e .g .
,  " IC doesn" ~: sayanything here about weight, or breaking chins,down.
Except for orushablee.
", "It's smaller.36"x20"x17"."
Spelling out words was Lncludedhere .CORE (Correction): This may be done by either speaker.Tf done by the smm speaker i t  i s  re la ted  Co fa l ses tar t ,  but semantic cons iderat ions  suggest  acor rect ion ,  e .g .
,  "Those are  30, ,,h, 48 l ength  by40 width by 14 he ight .
"COMP (ComoleCion): Completion of the o ther  speaker ' su t te rance ,  d i s t ingu ished  from in ter rupt ion  by thecooperat ive  nature of the u t terance ,  e.g., "As T'vegot a l o t  o f .
.
.Z 've  toe B: two pages.
A: Yeah."SZLY.
(Ta~kin S co 0uesel f~:  Mut ts r ings ,  even to thepoint  of undec ipherabi l iCy,  noc intended fo r  theo ther  person.TR (Terse rep ly ) :  An e l l ip t i ca l  rep ly ,  o f ten  NP,e.go, "No.
", "Probably meters.
", "50 and 7.62.
"TQ (Terse OuesCion) : An elliptical quest ion ,  oftenNP, e .g .
,  '~hy?"
,  "How about pyrotechn ics?"
,  '~h ichones?
"TI (Terse Information): A ra ther  e lus ive  category,ne i ther  quest ion ,  rep ly  nor co- -and,  an e l l ip t i ca ls tatement but one o f ten  requ i r ing  an act ion .F8 (Fa lse  Sta~c):  These are a lso  abandoned ut ter -ances,  but i~ed is te ly  fol lowed by usua l ly  syntac -t i ca l ly  and semant ica l ly  re la ted  ones,  e .g .
,  "Theymay, they may be identical c lasses . "
,  '~ell, theheight, the next largest height I've got is 34.
"TRUN (Truncated.
): An incomplete utterance, voluntarilyabandoned.DEF (Definition): E.g., '~0efine: ED: each deck of theAlmeo.
"P (Phatics): The largest subgroup of  fragments whosenets is borrowed from Malinoweki ?s tern "phaciccolmtmion" with which he referred to chose vocalut terances  chat serve to establish soc ia l  relationsracher than the direct purpose of communication.This term has been broadened to inc lude a l l  f rag -ments which help keep the channel of communicationopen, such as '~ell", '~aic", and even '~ou Cur-kay".
Two subcategor ies  of phacics are:C (Dialogue Connectors) : Words such as "Then","And", "Because" (at the beginning of a message orutterance).T (Tan Ouescions) :  E .g .
,  "They're a l l  under 60,seen" t they?"40B.
SYST~4 PERFORMANCE, sYNTAX USED, SPECIAL STRATEGIES,AND ERROR ANALYSISSystem performance can obv ious ly  be eva luated  in anumber of ways, but w i thout  good response t ime meaning-fu l  exper iments are imposs ib le .
When much data i sinvo lved in p rocess ing  a delay of a few minutes canprobably be to le ra ted ,  but the vas t  ma jor i ty  of requestsshould be responded to w i th in  seconds.
The la t te r  wasthe case in my exper iments .
Fa i r ly  complex messages ofabout 12 words were responded to in  about l0 seconds.The system clearly has to be reasonably free of bugs --in my case, 12 bugs were hit in the total of 1615 parsedand nonparsed messages.
The adequate extent  of natura llanguage syntax i s  imposs ib le  to determine.
Table 3shows the syntax used by my sub jec ts .sentences ;  or poss ib ly  jus t  "baby talk" due to thesuspicion of the computer's limitations.An interesting fact to note is that similar results withrespect  to syntax were obta ined  in the exper~nents w i thUSL, the "sister system" of REL developed by IBM Heidel-berg \[10\] -- with German used as gLl in two studies ofhigh school students: predominance of wh-questions (317in total of 451); not many relative clauses (66); com-mands (35); conjunctions (26); quantifiers (15); defini-tions (ii); comparisons (2); yes/no questions (i).An evaluation which would not include an analysis ofunparsed input would at best be of limited value.
Itwas shown in Table i that i093 out of 1515 or about ~oth i rds  were parsed in my exper iments .TABLE 3SENTENCE TYPESTot~l882651Al l  sentencesSimple sentences ,  e .g .
,  "L i s t  the decksof the Alamo."
73.8Sentences with pronouns, e .g .
,  '~/hat isits length?
", "what is in its pyro-technic looker?"
30 3.ASentences with quantifier(s), e.g.,"List the class of each cargo."
71 8.0Sentences with conjunctions, e.g.
"Whatis the maxim,-- stow height and balecube of the pyrotechnic locker of theAL?"
88 I0.0Sentences with quantifier and conjunc-tion(s), e.g., "List hatch width andhatch length of each deck of the Alamo."
13 2.6Sentences w i th  re la t ive  c lause ,  e .g .
,"List the ships that have water."
6 .7Sentences with relative clause (orrelated construction) and cemparator,e.g., "List the ships with a beam lessthan lO00."
6 .7Sentences with quantifier and relativeclause, e.g., "List height of eachcontent whose class is class IV."
2 .23Sentences with quantifier, conjunctionand relative clause, e.g., "List length,width and height of each content whoseclass is a--nunicion."
2 .23Sentences with quantifiers and comparator,e .g .
,  '~Iow many sh ips  have a beam greaterthan 10007'* 3 .34Wh-questions 75 .0Yes/no quest ions  1.0Con=sands 19.0Statements (data  add i t ion)  5.0Consider ing the wide range of R k'r- syntax \ [7\] ,  the pau-c i ty  of complex sentences i s  surpr i s ing .
The use ofde f in i t ions  which o f ten  invo lved  complex const ruct ions( re la t ive  c lauses ,  con junct ions ,  even quant i f ie rs )  had ade f in i te  in f luence .
So d id ,  undoubtedly,  the tasks i tuat ion  causing opt imizat ion  of work methods.
Thein f luence  of the spec i f i c  nature  of the task  wouldrequ i re  add i t iona l  s tud ies ,  but the spec ia l  dev ice pro-v ided by the system (a load ing prompt sequence - -  whichwas not analyzed)  was employed by every sub jec t .
Dew-i ces  such as these obv ious ly  are a great  a id  in  accom-p l i sh in  8 tasks .
They should be tes ted  extens ive ly  todetermine how they can augment the uatura lness  of NLIs.Other reasons for  the re la t ive ly  s imple syntax used werespec ia l  strategies: paraphrasing into s impler  syntaxeven though a sentence d id not parse for o ther  reasons ;"SUCCesS strategy" resulting in repetitious simpleTABLE 4Total %Vocabulary 161 36.1Punctuation 72 16.1Syntax 62 13.9Spelling 61 13.6Transmission 32 7.2Definition format 30 6.7Lack of response 16 3.6Bus 12 2.7Table 4 s t~_er i zes  the categor ies  of e r ro rs .
Thepredominance of vocabulary  i s  not surpr i s ing ,  but re la -t i ve ly  few syntact i c  e r ro rs  are .
In par t  th i s  may bedue to the method of scor ing  in which er rors  werecounted only once, so i f  a sentence conta ined an unknownvocabu lary  i tem (e .g .
"On what decks of the Alamocargo be s tored?"
)  but would have fa i led  on syatact i cgrounds as we l l ,  i t  would fa l l  in  the vocabu larycategory .
A comparison can be made here wi th  Damerau'sstudy I l l \ ]  of the use of the ll~A system by the c i typ lann in  S department in  White P la ins ,  a t  leas t  w i thregard  to the to ta l  of quer ies  to those completed: 788to 513.
So, aga in ,  roughly t~ao th i rds  were parsed.
Ino ther  categor ies  "pars in  S fa i lu re"  i s  147, " lookupfailures" 119, "nothing in data base" 61, "programerror" 39, but this only points to the general difficul-ties of comparisons of system performance.SOME CONCLUSIONSNorm Sondheimer suggested some questions we might try toanswer.
What has been learned about user needs?
Whatmost important linguistic phenomena to allOW for?
Whatother kinds of interactions?
Error analysis points inthe obvious directions of user needs, and so do thetypes of sentences employed.
While it is justified toquit the search for an almost perfect grnmm,r, it wouldbe a mistake to constrain it to the constructions used.Improved naturalness can be achieved with diagnostics,definitions, and devices geared to specific tasks suchas special prompting sequences.
Some tasks clearlyrequire math in the NLI.
How good are systems?
Anob jec t ive  measurement i s  probably imposs ib le ,  but thepercentage of requests  processed might g ive  some idea .In the case of a task  s i tuat ion  such as loading cargoi tems,  the percentage of task  complet ion may s igna l  bothsystem performance and user satisfaction.
Systemresponse times are a very important measure.
The ques-tionnaire method can and has been used (in the case ofMT and USL), but as yet there is too little experienceto measure user satisfaction.
Users seem very good atadapting to systems.
They paraphrase, use success stra-tegy, simplify syntax, use special devices -- what theyreally do is maximize their performance with respect Coa given task.41What have we learned about running evaluations7 I t  isimportant Co know what to look for, therefore the needfor good knowledge of human to hmnan discourse.
Goodsystem response times are a sine qua non.
Controlledexperiments have the advantage of being rep l i cab le ,  ac ruc ia l  fac tor  in a r r iv ing  ac eva luat ion  c r i te r ia .Determining user b ias and experience nay be important ,but even more so ?s user  t ra in ing .
Contro l led exper i -ments can show what methods are ~ost  e f fec t ive  (e .g .
amanual or study of proCocols~).
Study of user commence- -  phacic mater ia l  - -  g ives some measure of user(d i s )sat i s fac t ion  ( I  have seen '"/ou l ie , "  buc I have yeCto see "Good boy, youZ").
C lear ly ,  the best  ind icat ionof user sa t i s fac t ion  is  whether he or she uses the sys -tem again.
Extensive IonS-term s tud ies  are needed forthat .What should the fu ture  look l ike?
Task or iented  s i tua -t ions  seem to be a promising envirooment for  ~LZ.
Thestandards of NL systems performance w i l l  be set  by theusers .
Future eva luat ions?
As Antoine de Sainc-Zxup&r7wrote,  "As for  the Future,  your task is  not to fo resee ,but to enable i t .
"REFERENCESi .
Har r i s ,  Larry E. "Prospects  of P ract i ca l  NaturalLanguage Systems."
Proceedings of the 18th AnnualMeetin~ of  the Assoc ia t ion  fo r  Computationa~Linguistics, June 1980, p. 129.Z.
.
Henisz-DosterC, B.; Macdonald, R. E.; and Zarech-rusk, M. Machine Translation.
The Hague: Mouton,1979.3.
Sondheimer, N. K. "Evaluation of Natural LanguageI n ter faces  to Data Base Systems."
Proceedings o(the 19th Annual Meecin~ of the Assoc ia t ion  for  Com-putat iona l  L ingu is t i cs ,  June 1981.4.
Moste l le r ,  F. "~nnovation and Eva luat ion . "
Science(February 27, 1981):881-886.5.
Thompson, F. B. and Thompson, Boaena H. "?tacticalNatural Language Processing: The EEL System asPrototype."
In Advances in Computers, ed.
M. Rubi-noff  and M. C. Yovi ts .
Yol.
13.
New York:Academic Press ,  1975.6.
Thompson, BozenaH.
and Thompson, F. B.
"RapidlyExtendable Natural Language."
Proceedings of the1978 Nationa~ Conference of the ACM, pp.
173-182.7.
Thompson, Bozena H. REL English for the User.Pasadena: California Institute of Technology, 1978.8.
Thompson, Bozena H. "Linguistic Analysis ofNatural Language Co--,unication rich Computers.
"COLING 80: Proceedings of the gCh Internationa~Conference on Computariona~ Linguistics, Tokyo,October 1980, pp.
190-201.9.
Thompson, Bozeua H. and Thompson, F .B .
"Shiftingto a Higher Gear in a Hatura l  Language System.
"Proceedinzs of the Nat~ona~ Computer Conference,May 1981.10.
Lehmann, Hubert; OCt, Nikolaue; Zoeppri~z, Mag-dalene.
'~ser  Experiments with Natura l  Languagefor DaCe Base Access."
COLING 78: ProceedinRs ofch~ 7oh International Conference on ComputationalLinguistics.
Bergen, August 1978.Ii.
Oamtrau, Fred J .
The Transformational ~uestionAnsw~rin~ ~T~A~ System: Operational Statistics -1978.
EC 7739.
Yorktown Heights: IBM T. J. Watsonresearch Center, June 1979.42
