Corepresentational Grammar and Parsing English ComparativesKaren P#anUniversity of )linnesotaSEC.
1 INTRODUCTION SEC.
3 COREPRESENTATIONAL GRAMMAR (CORG)Marcus \[3\] notes that the syntax of English comparativeconstructions is highly complex, and claims that bothsyntactic end semantic information must be available forthem to be parsed.
This paper argues that comparativescan be structurally analyzed on the basis of syntacticinformation alone via a str ict ly  surface-based grammar.Such a grammar is given in Ryan \[5\], based on the co-representational model of Kac I l l .
While the grammardoes not define a parsing algorithm per se, i t  nonethe-less expresses regularities of surface organization andits relationship to semantic interpretation that an ade-quate parser would be expected to incorporate.
Thispaper wil l  discuss four problem areas in the descriptionof comparatives and wil l  outline the sections of thegrammar of \[5\] that apply to them.The central problem in parsing comparatives involvesidentifying the arguments of comparative predicates, andthe relations borne by these arguments to such predi-cates.
A corepresentational grammar is expl ic it ly de-signed to assign predicate-argument s ructure to sen-tences on the basis of their surface syntactic organi-zation.SEC.
2 COMPARATIVE PREDICATESAn in i t ia l  assumption underlying the proposed analysisof, comparatives is that the comparative lements such as~r~'  faster, more spacious, are syntactically akin toi ca t -~,  and thus that the principles applying topredicate-argument s ructure extend to them.
Each com-parative element wil l  accordingly have arguments (Subjectand Object) assigned to i t ,  and comparative predicationswil l  also be analyzed as being in relations of subordin-ation or superordination with other predications in thesentences in which they appear.
For example, in ( l)below, the comparative predicate richer wil l  have both asimple NP Subject and a simple NP~t :(1) John knows doctors richer than TomSUBJ ~" OBJThe referent of OBJ(richer), i.e.
Tom, is to be inter-preted as the standar--d-o-~-compariso-n-against which thereferen~ of doctors is Judged.
The entire predicationforms a term ~ i o n  ( 'T')  acting as OBJ(kn~ow), sothat the whole relational analysis is as shown In (2).
(2) John knows doctors richer than TomI T suBJ T 0~J Pr/richer(T}su~J 0~JBecause Pr/richer is included in an argument of anotherpredicate ( ~  the former is in a relation subordinateto the latter.This analysis assumes three types of comparative predi-cates: adverbial, adjectival, and quantifier.
I l lustra-tions are given below:(3) Alice builds planes faster than robots f ly them(4) John met people ta l ler  than Bob(5) Alice drank more beer than HelenThe adverbial predicates are subcategorized as takingpredicational arguments in both relations, and only sucharguments; the other types can take nonpredicationalarguments, though in some cases their Objects may bepredicational.The grammar i tse l f  consists of two sets of principles.The f i r s t  set consists of general constraints on sentencestructure and applies as well to non-comparative con-structions.
These principles are discussed in detail in\ [ l \ ]  and \[2\] and wil l  be presented here without jus t i f i -cation.
In addition there are a number of principlesapplying only to comparative constructions but non adhoc in the sense that each can be applied toward the so-lution of a number of distinct problems of analysis.These principles are as follows:(6) Law of Correspondence Every NP or term in asentence must be assigned a relational role.
I l l(7) L~wof Uniqueness No two elements in a sentencemay bear the same relation to a sinnle predicateunless they are coordinate or coreferential.
I l l(8) Object Rule (OR) I f  P is an active transitivepredicate~ OBJ(P) must be identified in such away as to guarantee that as many segments thereofas possible occur to the right of P. I l l(g) ?~ulti-Predicate Constraint Every predicate in asentence which contains more than one predicatemust be in an ordination relation with some otherpredicate in that sentence.\[4\](lO) Term Identification Principlesa.
Any predication with the internal structureOBJ-SUB-PREO may be analyzed as T. Any UP isa T. Any T satisfying either of these conditionsis a SIMPLE TE~I.b.
Any predication consisting solely of a compara-tive predicate with simple ~!P's as arguments isa T; such expressions wil l  be called SIMPLECO?IPARATIVE TE~.IS.
All others wil l  be COtlPLEXCOMPARATIVE TE~IS.c.
Any predication whose Subject occurs to theright of than, and whose predicate eitheroccurs tot--E~-e left  of than or occurs as SUBJ(do)where do i tse l f  occursto the right of than, isa T; s~h expressions wil l  be called PRE-'DTCATE-CONTAIN~IG TERMS or PCT's.
( l l )  Comparative Object Rule The object of a comparativepredicate is any term or predication satisfying thesubcategorization of the predicate and which in-cludes some element occurin 0 immediately to theright of than.
(12) Comparative-e-~ubject Rule The Subject of a compara-tive predicate must occur to the left  of than.
(13) Comparative Object Restriction The Object--o-?
anonadverbial comparative predicate must be a simpleterm unless the tiP occuring immediately to theright of than is SUBJ of a PCT; in that case, theOBJ of the non-adverbial comparative predicate mustbe a PC-term.These principles do not define a parsing algorithm perse;  rather, they express certain surface true restric-tions which taken together and in concert with the gen-eral principles from Kac Zl \] and \[2 \], define exactlythe set of predicate argument structures assignable toa comparative construction.
Since no particular analyt-ic procedure is associated with CORG, the assignment ofparticular analyses may be thought of either as a com-parison of complete potential relational analyses withthe principles, whereby all potential analyses of thestring not consistent with the grammar are discarded, oras a process of sequential assignments of partial analy-ses where each step is checked against the principles.The sequential method of analysis wil l  be used here topresent the operation of these principles; however, i tis not a necessary adjunct to the grammar.13SEC.
4.0 STRUCTURE TYPES AND DESCRIPTIVE PROBLEMSThere are three types of comparative predicates, alreadynoted in section 2: adjectival, quantifier and adverbial.The differing subcategorization of these predicates doesaffect the possible analyses for a given sentence.
Sev-eral other factors which influence the interpretation ofthe sentence are the position of the comparative predi-cate in the sentence, the degree of ellipsis in thethan-phrase, and the subcategorization of surroundingp-~-~dicates.
The effect of the type of predicate and theeffect of the position of the predicate (in particularrelative to than) will be considered separately in thefollowing sect~o---"-ns.
The effects of the degree ofellipsis in the ~than phrase and the subcategorization ofsurrounding predlcates will be considered together insection 4.3.
It should be kept in mind however that allof these variables may act together in any combinationto affect the type and number of interpretations a givensentence may have.SEC.
4.I SUBCATEGORI~.ATION AND PREDICATE TYPESThe.
effects of the type of comparative predicate on theinterpretation can be noted in (3) and (4).
The adverb-ial predicate faster in (3) takes predicational argumentsonly (ignoring f-T6"r"now the problem of lexical ambiguity)while the adjectival predicate taller takes non-predica-tional (.gP or Term) arguments.To see how these differences interact with the possibleanalyses which may be assigned, consider a completeanalysis of (4).
This analysis may begin with any ele-ment in the sentence.
In most cases the assignment ofthe object of the comparative predicate, as the firststep, will result in a more direct path to a completeanalysis.
Assume then, that Bob has been analyzed asO~(taller).
This assignment-~atisfies the ComparativeObjecT~-uTe and is also consistent with the OR.
(14) John met people taller than Bob.TSince neither met nor tal ler is a reflexive predicate,the Law of Unique'--'ness guarantees that Bob cannot beanalyzed as OBJ (P), where P is any pr~-'Tcate (otherthan taller) as long as i t  is analyzed as OBJ(taller).Slnce t-TEe'F'~ are two non-reflexive predicates in thissentence (taller and m e_~.t), there are four remaininq re-lational ass-~g~ents whlch must be made before the analy-sis is complete.
These are SUBJ(me_~.t), OBJ(met), SUBJ(taller) and some ordination relatlon betwee--n-the pred-icates met and taller.John or Either ~ people may be analyzed as SUBJ(taller) atthis point since both satisfy the Comparative ~-~tRule by occuring to the left of than.
I f  John wereassigned the relation SUBJ(taller-)--The analysis wouldviolate some principles.
A~for  purposes of demon-stration, that John=SUBJ(taller).
The relational analy-sis at this point would th--en be:(15) John met people taller than BobSRBJ T o~JThe remaining relational assignments would be OBJ(met),SUBJ(met) and some ordination relation for the two pred-i ca te~ The next apparently logical step would be toanalyze people as O~j(me_~t).
However, this will violatethe OR, since i t  is possible to include mere than justthe ;(P people as part of the OBJ(met).
The OR requiresthat as many segments as possible-Eccuring to the riohtof a predicate be included in OBJ(P).
The way to satis-fy this condition would be to analyze ~ as part ofPR/taller.
Then the OR would be satisfied by the maxi-mum number of elements (consistent with the grammar)which occur to the right of met.
The only possible re-lation that people could bear to taller would be SUBJ(taller) s in~occurs  to the l ~  than (see Com-parative Subject Rule).
I f  i t  is analyzed as SUBJ(tal- ?ler), then John can no longer be analyzed as SUBJ(talLler).
These steps would wive the following partial rela-tional representation:(16) John met people taller than BobT SUBJ ~ OBJPR/taller(T)OBjAt this point in the analysis, the only relation whichneeds to be assigned st i l l  is SUBJ(met).
The assignmentof this relation to John is the only possible choicewhich violates no principle of the grammar and this as-signment would give a complete analysis.The analysis of (3) procedes along somewhat differentlines due to the subcategorization of the adverbialcomparative predicate faster, which requires predica-tional arguments.
Thean~sis can begin as before byattempting to assign arguments to the comparative predi-cate faster.
However, the f irst NP after than cannot beassigned to faster as OBJ since i t  is not a predicationalarnument.
The subcategorization of faster requires com-plete predications to be available b~arguments fori t  may be identified.
Thus consider the other predi-cates, build and fly.
Both are transitive predicatestaking on--~simple HP's as arguments.
The ~IP them mustbe analyzed as OBJ(fly) because of the OR.
Th~mpar-ative OBJ Rule and ~ OR together will require robotsto be analyzed as part of the PR/fly.
Since robotsoccurs immediately to the right of than, i t  mus-Et-6"~in-cluded as part of the OBJ(faster) by--~Te Comparative OBJRule.
The OR requires the"O-~J-~f any predicate to in-clude as many elements to the right of that predicate aspossible.
Therefore, i f  possible, fly and them mustalso be included as elements of OBJ~-?aster).----~incefaster is an adverbial predicate, itwl-'~TTT-allow a com-pe-l-eEe-predication (in fact requires) to be its object.Thus, all three of these aspects of the grammar work to-gether to force the string robots..fly..them to be anal-yzed as a predication PR/fly as shown below, with PR/flyanalyzed as OBJ(faster)(as allowed by the ComparativeOBJ Rule).
(17) Alice builds planes faster than robots fly themT SUBJ OBj I "PR/flv OBJAt this point the arguments of build still need to beassigned and build and faster must be assigned some or-dination re la~ S ln~ter  requires a completepredication for its sub jec~ predication build mustbe built first.
If any rip's other than A l i ceTp lanesare used as arguments for builds, the anay--T'~s cou~be completed.
For example~obots  were analyzed asOBJ(bullds) (as well as SUBJ(fly-\]~-T, then either Alice orSlCOUld be analyzed as SUBJ(builds) completingd.
(18) Alice builds planes faster than rgbo~s fly themSU~J I" "F OBa S~BJq" ~BjPR/build PR/fly OBjPR/build could then be analyzed as SUBJ(faster) and allthe necessary relations between arguments and predicates,and between predicates themselves(i.e, ordination rela-tions) would be assigned.
However, the analysis would beill-formed since one element, in this case lap_~, wouldbe left unanalyzed in violation of the Law o?
~orrespon-dence.
The only way this situation can be avoided, whileat the same time not violating the OR or the ComparativeObject Rule as discussed above for the OBJ(faster), wouldbe to use only Alice and planes as arguments for builds.The OR would requlr~ that~.~ be analyzed as OB~(builds) leaving Alice to be analyzed as SUBJ(builds).This resulting pred--dT~'ation Pr/builds can then be anal-yzed as SUBJ(faster) completing the analysis with allrules in the grammar satisfied.
(Ig) Alice bu~ds planes faster than robots f ly themSU~V T OBj ~ SHR,/ "r' onjPR/builds SUBJ I P~/fIY OBJ14The most obvious differences between the analyses of (3)and (4) is in the types of arguments which the compara-tive predicates take and the ordination relations be-tween the predicates and the order in which the differ-ent predications were "built up".
For (3), the argu-ments for the non-comparative predicates must be assignedf i rst ,  before the arguments for the comparative predi-cate.
This is required by the subcategorization of theadverbial predicate, which takes predicational argumentsonly.
In this sentence, the non-comparative predicatesare analyzed as subordinate to the comparative predicate.This too is a conseqence of the subcategorization offaster.
For (4), the most efficient procedure foras--~ing relations (i.e.
the one requiring the leastbacktracking) requires the arguments of the comparativepredicate tal ler to be assigned f irst.
In additionsince the~egor i za t ion  of this predicate allowsonly for non-predicational arguments, the comparativepredicate is analyzed as subordinate to the non-compar-ative predicate in the sentence.
Thus the type of com-parative predicate and its subcategorization affects thetype of analysis provided by the grammar, and also the"optimal" order of relational assignments, when proce-dural aspects of the analysis are considered.SEC.
4.2 POSITION OF THE COMPARATIVE PREDICATEThere are two aspects to the problem of the position ofthe comparative predicate: one involves the position ofthe SUBJ(COMP P) relative to than; the other involvesthe position of the entire comparative predication rela-tive to any other predicate in the string.SEC.
4.2.1 COORDI~IATE AND NON-COORDINATE ADVERBIALCOMPARATIVE CONSTRUCTIONSIn some cases, the arguments of comparative predicatesmay be coordinate.
This will always be the case foradverbial comparative predicates for which there is someellipsis in the string as in(20) John builds planes faster than robotsHere robots can be considered to be coordinate witheither E - '~es  or John, that is i t  can be interpreted aseither t--h-e~-O'BJ(b~s) or as the OBd(builds).
In non-adverbial comparative constructions, i t  will not alwaysbe the case that a single riP after than will be inter-preted as coordinate with some nother-"r-~TP.
Consider thedifferences in possible interpretations between (4) and(21)(21) John met tal ler people than Bob(4) John met people tal ler than BobFor (4), there is only one possible interpretation, whilethere are two possible interpretations for (21).
That is,in (21) Bob may simply be interpreted as OBJ(taller)correspond--dTng to the meaning of the sentence(22) John met people who are tal ler than BobHowever, (21) has another interpretation in which Bob isinterpreted as SUBJ(met).
This case corresponds t~heinterpretation of (23).
(23) John met tal ler people than Bob didFor this second interpretation, there are two subjectsfor me.__tt, i .e.
,  John and Bob.
This means that John andBob must be forma---aITy def~d as coordinate arguments.l~-~'s formal definition is necessary since the Law ofUniqueness tates that no two NP's may bear the samerelation to a predicate (i.e.
both be SUBJ(P i )  unlessthey are coordinate or coreferentia1.
Such a definitionfor rlP's such as John and Bob in (23) is not unreason-able since they bo--Eh--meet ~ basic requirements forcoordinate elements.
They are both interpretable asbearing the same relation to some Predicate Pi.The Comparative Object Restriction and a definition ofcoordinate comparative lements are required to precise-ly define the conditions under which two elements may beconstrued as coordinate in a comparative construction.The essence of the Coordinate Comparative Definition(not included here due to space considerations) is thatany two elements may be coordinated by than i f  nonon-adverbial comparative predicate occurs immediatelyto the left of than.
The ultimate consequence of thiscondition is that only one interpretation is a11owed forconstructions like (4) and this interpretation does notinclude any arguments coordinated by than.
This meansthat in (4) for example there is no possl-'--%le analysis inwhich Bob can be SUBJ(met).In the coordinate interpretation of (22), ( i .e.
,  whereJohn is coordinate with Bob) the final analysis of thes-ErTng will include the ~r6Tlowing predicational struc-ture:(24) John ~t  tal ler pe?pleOBJ thans~Pr/met(PCT)It  is this term, then, which is assigned to the relationOBJ(taller), ~ being SUBJ(taller) (note that peopleplays two distlnct roles in this sentence).
(25) John met tal ler peopl~ than Bqb"I ~ ~ OBQ SOBJ?
F" " Pr/met(PCT)L SUBJ OBJThis particular assignment (of pr/met as OBJ(taller~ isallowed by the Comparative Object Restriction.
That is,tal ler, being non-adverbial comparative predicate, is~bcategor i zed  for predicational arguments.
But in(25) OBJ(taller) contains a predicate as one of itsarguments.This particular predicational structure is defined as aPredicate Containing Term or PCT by the Term Definition~The Comparative Object Restriction has the effect of al-lowing the OBJ(CO~P P) to be a PCT.
Since the particularsubstring of (22), met..people..Bob need not be analyzedas a PCT, an altern~ive analysis for (22) is also pos-sible.
The alternative analysis would be like that for(4), where only Beb=SUBJ(taller).
That is, the Compar-ative Object Restriction does not necessarily require ananalysis for (22) like (25); i t  merely allows i t  i f  cer-tai:n conditions set out in the Term Definition are met.The Comparative Object Restriction is quite important,then, in distinguishing the possible analysis for non-adverbial comparative constructions.
It is equally Im-p lant  in obtaining the correct analysis for the sen-tence types to be discussed in the next section.SEC.
4.2.2 SUBJECT COMPARATIVESThe position of the entire comparative predication, rela-tive to other predicates in the string is also quite im-portant in determining the possible types of analysis.Sentence (25) exhibits a subject comparative where thecomparative predication occurs to the left  of anotherpredicate.
I t  is useful to compare this sentence withthe object comparative in (22) repeated here.
(26) Taller people than Bob met John(22) John n~t tal ler people than BobAs has already been discussed in 4.2.1, (22) has two pos-sible interpretations.
Sentence (26), however, has onlyone possible interpretation.
Therefore there should beonly one possible analysis.
The analysis which needs tobe avoided is(27) Taller people thans~ ~ m~ John T o~J I pr/m@tSUBJ OBJThis case must be disallowed while at the same time al-lowing the structure in (24) to be analyzed as OBJ(tal-ler).
The Comparative Object Rule and the Term15Definitions work together to achieve this.
The structurePr/met shown in (28) does not meet the requirements setout for a PC-Term and the subcategorization of taller(i.e.
non-predicational arguments only) wil l  not allowPr/met to be analyzed as an argument of taller unless i tis analyzable as a PC-Term.
Thus, the subcategorizationof taller and the Comparative Object Restriction wil lboth prevent he assignment of Pr/met as OBJ(taller)in(27).
Since an analysis which includes (27) is not pos-sible, the only way the analysis can procede is as fol-lows.
The Comparative Subject Rule wil l  requirepeople=SUBJ(taller) since i t  is the only tip to the leftof than.
Since Bob is the element occuring immediatelyto t-'h-e-right o f~n,  it is the only ~IP which can beanalyzed as objec-'t--~f taller.
The resulting predicationPr/taller is defined as a term by (IOb).
(28) Taller peqple than B b met John ?
s..JPr/taller(T)The MP John must be analyzed as OBJ(met) to satisfy theOR, leav-~Pr/taller to be analyzed as SUBJ(met).
Thiswill also satisfy the )lultiPredicate Constraint sincetaller and met will be in some ordlnatlon relation as ares-'~.
(2g) TalerLprxtaler(T)su)dpeqple~uB,\] than ~jB b m i t  JofnOBdPr/metNo other analysis is possible since no non-comparativepredicate occurs to the left of than (which would allowfor possible coordinate interpretatl----~ons).SEC.
4.2.3 COMCLUSIONSThe important points in this section are that for Sub-ject Comparatives such as (26), only one interpretationis possible, while for Object Comparatives such as {21),two interpretations are possible.
Position of the com-parative predication relative to the rest of the stringis thus an important factor in determining the number ofpossible interpretations.
Position of individual NP'srelative to than is also an important factor in deter-mining the number of possible interpretations a sentencemay have; Sentences like (4),where no tIP occurs betweenthan and the comparative predicate, have only one inter-pretation, ~lhile sentences like (ZIP, where an PIP doesoccur in the position, have two possible interpretations.The Comparative Object Restriction and the Term Defini-tions figure crucially in all these cases in the deter-mination of the correct number and type of possibleanalyses.SEC.
4.3 DEGREE OF ELLIPSIS AND SUBCATEGORIZATION O.~FSURROUtlDIr~G PREDICATESThe degree of ellipsis following than in comparativestructures is quite important in ~rmin ing  the numberof possible interpretations a structure may have.
Forexample, in the f i rst  sentence of each pair below, whereonly a single predicate occurs before than, more thanone interpretation is possible per str -~,  while in thesecond sentence in each pair, where an PIP followed bysome predicate occurs, only one interpretation ispossible.
(30) Alice builds planes faster than robots(31) Alice builds planes faster than robots do(32) John knows richer doctors than Alice(33) John knows richer doctors than Alice doesThe actual analysis of these sentences wil l  not bepresented here.
Such sentences are discussed in detailin Ryan \[5\].SEC.
4.3.1 DEGREE OF ELLIPSIS AND SUBCATEGORIZATION OFSURRDUMDING PREDICATES.The problem of degree of ell ipsis interacts cruciallywith another factor, the subcateqorization of surround-ing predicates, in a very interesting way.
Consider ,the following sets of sentences.
(34) John knows more doctors than lawyers debate(35) John knows more doctors than lawyer s debatepsychiatrists(36) John knows more doctors than lawyersrun(37) John knows more doctors than lawyers spoke to(38) John hired more doctors than lawyers debate(39) *John hired more doctorsthan lawyers debatepsychiatrists(40) *John hired more doctors than lawyers run(41) John hired more doctors than lawyers spoke to(42) John thinks more doctors than lawyers debate(43) John thinks more doctors than lawyers debatepsychiatrists(44) John thinks more doctors than lawyers run(45) *John thinks more doctors than lawyers spoke toThese sentences contain different combinations of com-parative predicates with either transitive or intrans-itive verbs following them and preceding verbs whichtake: either complement or NP objects (34~-(37); NPobjects only (38-41); and complement objects only (42-45).
The type and number of interpretations depends onthe subcategorlzation of these verbs and the verbs fol-lowing the comparative predicate.
The flrst sentence ineach group contains a transitive verb, debate, with noovert object.
The second sentence in eac~group containsdebate with an overt object.
This results in (39) in anungrammatical sentence, as compared with (38), and in(35) in a sentence with only one possible interpretat ionas compared with (34), which has two possible interpre-tations.
The third sentence in each group contains anint rans i t ive  verb, run.
This also results in an ungram-matical sentence for--T40) in the second group and in asentence with only one interpretat ion,  (36) in the f i r s tgroup.
The last sentence in each group contains anothert rans i t ive verb, spoke to, without an overt object.
Thedifference between th is~erb  and debate is that debateis a so-called 'object deletable've-~'eF~-while spo\]E~"~o-is not.
Mote that in (45) this results in an ungra~at-lcal  sentence (compare to 42) while in (37) the sentenceis grammatical.
However, in (37) the structure of thephrase more doctors than lawyers d i f fers  from i ts  struc-ture in (35) and (36), in which more doctors than~e tS the subject of the third verb.
That is not in (37), where only la~ers  is the subject ofthe third verb.
It can be seen from this that the sub-categorization of the preceding the following predicatesIs very Inq~ortant to the structure of the comparativepredication.
In addltlo~as the first two sentencesin each group show, the degree of ellipsis also affectsthe structure.In all cases, the structure of the phrase more doctorsthan lawyers shifts in structure.
The most importantaspect of this data is the type of arguments which thecomparative predicates must take.
In these particularcases i t  is a change in the object of the comparativepredicate which corresponds to a sh i f t  in the structureof the sentence.
This is accounted for most d i rect ly  bythe rules in (lOp, ( l l )  and (13).For example, in (36) the OBJ(more) is lawyers and theco~q}lete predication Pr/more ~he S u r f  run.This partial analysis i s~wn in (46).
(46) John knows more doqtors than lawxers r4nsuBJ o~j T Pr/more(T) SUBJ16iIn (38), the object of more is the sequence doctors..lawyers..debate, a term according to (lOa).shown in the partial analysis in (47).
(47) John hired more doctprs than lawyers debateT )OBJ SUBJ I" | Pr/debate(T) SqBJ ~qjSentence (36) could not be analyzed as in (47) becauserun, the third verb in (36), is intransitive whilede-e~ate, the third verb in (38), is transitive.
Thus runcannot be included in any structure satisfying the Te~Identification Principles (lO), while debate can be soanalyze@.
This means that run cannot be T~cluded as partof the OBJ(more).
This is ~ranteed by the ComparativeObject Restrlct-'---ion (13).Both of the analyses shown in (46) and (47) are possiblefor sentence (34) since knows may take predicationalobjects (in this case, more doctors than lawyers run) ori t  may take nonpredicatlonal objects such as the Complexcomparative term in (47).Sentences (39) and (40) do not have possible analysessince hired cannot take predicational objects (such asthat sho--o-wn-in (46)), and the presence of either anintransitive verb (run) or a transitive verb with anovert object (debate'-psychiatrists) after the compara-tive predicate, forces such a structure because of rules(lO) and (13).
Sentence (41) would have a structuresimilar to (47).Sentences (42) - (44) v~uld all have structures similarto the partial analysis in (46).
This is forced by thesubcategorization of thinks, which takes only predica-tional objects.
There--iT-no possible analysis for (45)since the subcateqorization of s o_~to ,  unlike debate,requires the presence of an overt object.
But i a?-a-n--object is assigned to spoke to, the result wil l  u l t i -mately be a structure Ti-Ee'-tlTat shown in (47).
But thestructure shown in (47) is a term and therefore nonpred-icational.
This means i t  could not be analyzed asOBJ(thinks), while requires a predicational (complement)structure.Finally, i t  is precisely because a sentence with sooketo as the third verb must have a structure like (~TF--TT.e.
nonpredicational) that sentence (41) has a possibleanalysis in contrast to (45).
That is, the structure ofthe string more doctors than lawyers spoke to in (49)has a nonpredicational (comparative term) structure.Since i t  is a term and not a predication, any verb tak-ing i t  as an argument must be subcategorized for nonpred-icational arguments.
Think in (45) takes only predica-tional arguments in the---~ect relation, while hired in(41) takes only nonpredicational arguments in th-'-e-~'6jectrelation.
Thus, only the sentence with hired may takethe comparative term as an argument.
But sooke to doesnot allow the string more doctors than lawyers to simplybe analyzed as its sub-ject, since no possible objectwould then be available for spoke to, However, i f  thestring more doctors than lawyers is--not analyzed asSUBJ(spoke to), i t  wil l  not be possible to analyze thestring as a predication Pr/spoke to, thus blocking theanalysis of the string as OBJ(think).SEC.
4.3.2 CONCLUSIONThe degree of el l ipsis and the subcategorization of thesurrounding predicates interact to affect the possiblenumber and type of interpretations for each of the sen-tences in this section.
That interaction can be mostclearly seen in a comparison of (34) and (35) and (36).The verb know is subcategorized for either predicationalor nonpred-i-E~tional arguments.
This allows the stringmore doctors than lawyers debate to have two possiblestructures corresponding to the structures shown in (46)and (47).
The.structure in (46) is a predicationalstructure while the structure in (47) is a nonpredica-tional structure.
The subcategorization of knows allowseither of those as possible interpretations of the OBJ(knows).
Verbs subcategorized for only one type of ar-gument, say predicational, wil l  allow only one of thosepossible structures of more doctors than lawyers .debate,in this case the predica'tional one shown in (46), to beanalyzed as the object of that verb.
This is one way inwhich the subcategorization of surrounding predicatesaffects the type and number of possible interpretationsa sentence may have.The effect of the subcategorization of the followingpredicate parallels the effect of no el l ipsis after than.Thus sentences (36) and (36) each have only one possib--bT~interpretation and the relation of the string more doc-tors than lawyers is the same in each case; that is, i tis the same as the predicational structure shown in (46),being the subject of the following predicate.
Thus, thepresence of an intransitive verb or the presence of atransitive verb plus an overt object to its right as in(35) and (36) forces a predicational structure of thetype shown in (46).
Since knows takes predicationalobjects, these sentences are s t i l l  grammatical.
I fhired is substituted for knows .
as in (39) and (40), thesentences are no longer grammatical, since the subcate-gorization of hired does not allow predication argument~The last type of effect of the predicate following thanis in some cases to force a nonpredicational structurelike that shown in (47).
The verb s~oke to is not anobject deletable verb, while the verb debate does allowunspecified objects.
For this reason ,~erb  sooke tocannot be part of a structure like that shown in-~6),  ....since i t  would require the object of spoke to to beanalyzed as "unspecified".
Thus, the presence of a verblike spoke to after than forces the nonpredicationalstructure o?-the type--s-hown in (47), since in this struc-ture the object of ~ to would be overt.
Since thepresence of spoke to force's a nonpredicational structurefor the string more--doctors than lawyers spoke to, i tcan only occur as part of an object of a verb which al-lows nonpredicational objects, like know or hired.It  follows from this that i f  the string more doctorsthan lawyers spoke to occured after a verb which tookpredicationa'l arguments only, such as thinks, the resultwould be an ungrammatical sentence.
This is in fact thecase, as can be seen from sentence (45).SEC.
5 CONCLUSIONSThe rules presented here provide an axiom system whichallows only one possible analysis for each interpreta-tion of a sentence, and no possible analysis for sen-tences which are ungrammatical.
The rules specificallyproposed for comparatives have been shown to apply to awide variety of construction types; for example, theComparative Object Restriction and the Term Definitionsfigure crucially in the analysis of sentences in all thesubsections of section 4.
In addition, these rules arebased on observations about characteristics of the sen-tences which are either directly observable in thestring (e.g.
left  to right relative order) or which area necessary ~art of any grammatical description (e.g.subclassification and subcategorization of verbs).
Sucha grammar can provide useful and accessible informationfor the problem of parsing as well as grammaticaldescription.17REFERENCESI.
Kac, Michael (1978) Corepr~sentation of GrammaticalStructure.
Hpls: Uni~rsity of Hlnnesota Press.2.
, (1980) "Corep~sentatlonal Grammar".In Syntax & Semantics 13, E. A. Moravcsik &J. R. Wirth (eds.).
Academic Press.3.
Marcus, Mitchell (1980) A Theory of SyntacticRecognitio~ for Natural Languaqe.
Cambridge, MA:~T Press.4.
Rtndflesch, Tom (1978) "The General Structure ofHulti-Predlcatlonal Sentences in Engllsh" inMlnnesota Papers 5, G. A. Sanders and )l. 8.
Kac,eds.5.
Ryan, Karen L. (1981) A Surface Based.Analysisof En91tsh Comparative Constructions.
H.A.Thesis, University of Minnesota.18
