EVALUATION OF NATURAL LANGUAGE INTERFACES TO DATABASE SYSTEMS:A PANEL DISCUSSIONNorman K. Sondheimer, ChairSperry UnivacBlue Bell, PAFor a natural language access to databasesystem to be practical it must achieve a goodmatch between the capabilities of the userand the requirements of the task.
The userbrings his own natural language and his ownstyle of interaction to the system.
The taskbrings the questions that must be answeredand the database domaln+s semantics.
Allnatural language access systems achieve somedegree of success.
But to make progress as afield, we need to be able to evaluate thedegree of this success.For too long, the best we have menaged hasbeen to produce a list of typical questionsor linguistic phenomena that a systemcorrectly processed.
Missing has been adiscussion of their importance and a similarlist of unhandled phenomena.
Onlyoccasionally were even informal evaluationsof systems conducted.Recently, this has begun to change.
In thelast several years, many of the currentgeneration of natural language access todatabase systems have been subject tolaboratory or field testing.
These includeINTELLECT, LADDER, PLANES, REL and TQA.
Wehave begun to discover what a user will ask asyste m, how he reacts to its limits, andwhere we need further work.This panel brings together a good sampling ofthe people involved in these tests includingIndlv iduals intimately involved with theabove systems.
The position papers thatfollow present ~helt unique viewpoints on theimportant issues in the evaluation of naturallanguage access to database systems.
Theseinclude ?2.
What has been learned about a) userneeds, b) system's capabilities and c) their~atch with respect to tasks.
Under this,what are the most important linguisticphenomena to allow for?
What other kinds ofinteractions, beside retrievals, do usersrequest?
How good are systems at satisfyingusers?
How good are users at finding ways touse systems?
How satisfied are users withsystems* performance?
How does these resultsvary with respect to tasks?II.
What have we learned about runningevaluations?
Under this, what methodologiesare capable of revealing what sorts of facts?What are the limits of field studies versuscontrolled experiments?
Bow good are studieswith a simulated system, such as Malhotra*swith its human intermedlary\[l\]?
What are theindependent variables that must be allowedfor?
What tools are available to determineuser bias and experience beforehand, and usersatisfaction afterward?IIl.
On the basis of these evaluations, whatshould the future look like for naturallanguage access to database?
Under thispoint, what niches look most promising fornatural language interfaces?
What standardsshould he set for natural language systemsperformance?
What kinds of evaluationsshould be run in the future?
How should theybe designed and how should they be judged?In addition to the position papers thatfollow, I strongly urge you to consult thepanelist more extensive publications.Bib l iography\[I\] Malhotra, A., =Design Criterla for aKnowledge-Based English Language System forManagement: An Experlmental Analysis", Ph.D.Thesis, MIT, MAC TR-146, 1975.29
