A SITUATION SEMANTICS APPROACH TOTHE ANALYSIS OF SPEECH ACTS 1David Andreoff EvansStanford University1.
INTRODUCTIONDuring thc past two decades, much work in linguistics has focused onsentences as minimal units of communication, and the project of rigorouslycharacterizing the structure of sentences in natural anguage has met withsome succcss.
Not surprisingly, however, sentcnce grammars havecontributed little to the analysis of discourse, Human discourse consists notjust of words in sequences, hut of words in sequences directed by a speakerto an addressee, used to represent situations and to reveal intentions.
Onlywhen the addressee has apprehcndcd both these aspects of the messagecommunicated can the message be interpretecLThe analysis of discourse that emerges from Austin (1962), grounded in atheory of action, takes this view as ccntral, and thc concept of thc speechact follows naturally.
An utterance may have a conventional meaning, butthe interpretation of the actual meaning of the utterance as it is used indiscourse depends on evaluating thc utterance in the context of the set ofintentions which represcnt the illocutionary mode of its presentation.
Putanother way (paraphrasing Searle (1975:3)), the speaker's intention is toproduce understanding, consisting of the knowledge of conditions on thespeech act being pcrformed.If we are to take scrionsly Scarle's (1969:16) assertion that "the unit oflinguistic communication is not ... the symbol, word, or sentence, ... butrather thc production or the issuance of thc symbol, word or sentence in theperformance of the spcech act."
then wc should be able to find some formalmethod of characterizing speech acts in discourse.
Unfortunately, linguistshave too often employed speech acts as taxonomic onvonicnces, as in Dora(1977).
Labor and Fanshel (1977), and elscwhcre, without attempting to giveanything more than a descriptive definition.
Only in the atlJficialintelligencc literature, notably in the work of Allcn, Bruce, Cohcn, andPcrrauh (e.g.
Allen (1979), Bruce and Newman (1978).
Cohen and Perrault(1979), Cohen (1978).
Perrault, Allen, and Cohcn (1978)), does onc find anattempt o dcfinc spcech acts in terms of more gcncral processes, herespecifically, opcrations on planning networks.2.
TYPES OF SPEECH ACTSA great problem for the computational linguist attempting to find a formalrepresentation for speech acts is that thc set of speech acts does not mapuniformly onto the set of sentences.
In terms of "guodncss of fit" withsentences, evcral types of speech acts can be described.
One type, the so-called pcrformatives, including ASSERT, DECLARE, etc.. can be ?ffectedin a single utterance.
But even some of these can undcrgo furtherdecomposition.
For example, assuming.that the usual felicity conditionshold (of.
Searte (1969:54f0), both (1) and (2) below can count as anapology, though neither sentence in (2) alone has the effect which theircombination achieves.
(1) 1 apologize for what I did.
(2) I did a terrible thing.
I'm very sorry.In (2), the first sentence contributes to the effect of an apology only to theextent hat an addressee can infer that it is intended as part of an apology.The second sentence, which makes overt the expression of contrition, alsoexp~sses the sinccrity which is prerequisite for a felicitouS apology.
But itssuccess, too.
depends on an int'crence by tile addressec that it is intended aspart of an apology.
If the addressee cannot make that inference -- because,for cxamplc, the address?c hctieves that the speakcr is speakingsarcastically -- the effect of the apology is lost not only for the secondsentence, but for the first as well.
In this case, the illocutionary effectAPOI,OGIZE can be regarded as supra-scmcntial, though, as in (1).appropriate single scntences can be used to achieve its effect.There are other types of speech acts, however, that cannot bc performed insingle utterances, but require several or even many utterances.
Forexample.
DEFEND (as in a lawyer's action on ~hal f  of his client),REFUTE (as in polemical argumentation) and PROVE (as in demonstraungeffccm from specific causcs) cannot be cffected as pcrfnrmatives: onecannot make a refutation by uttering the words.
I refute ,V, as one mightmake an assertion by uttering thc words, I a.~ert X.One might wonder whether these supra-utterance modes should count asspeech acts.
Certainly.
the term "spcech act'" has ffaditionally been used inreference to single sentences or to certain classes of  non-scntenciaJexpressions which have single utterance indcpcndcncc in discourse (e.g.Hello).
But consider again the traditional definition, paraphrasing Scarle(1969:4gff), a speech act is the use of an utterance directed at an addreascein the scrvicc of a set of intentions, namely,1.)
thc intention to producc a certain illocutionary effect in theaddressee,2.)
the intention to produce this effect by getting the addressee torecognize the intention to produce the effect, and3.)
thc retention to produce this recognition by means of the addrcsaee'sknowicdge of  the rules governing the utterance.There is nothing in this characterization that requires that utterance beunderstood as scntencc.
"ll~e crucial point is that the utterance (of whateverlength) serve the set of intentions represented by 1.)
- 3.).
A valid speechact can bc regarded as defining an illocntionary mode which is govcrnod byconventions which constrain thc sorts of interpretations that can be givcn toutterances which occur within that mode (including our judgmcnts un theirappropriateness).
Thcsc convcnUons also dcfinc the conditions that must bemet for thc targct cffect to bc achieved,Thus for the utterance / will be home by noon to count as a promise (andnot.
say.
as a prediction), it must bc viewed as an utterance iasucd in theillocutionary mode of promising, wllich not only defineS ccrtain well-formcdncss conditions on the utterance itself (making statemcnt,s in the pasttense -- e.g.
!
war home by noon .- impossible as direct speech actpromises2), but also givcs the criteria which determine whether the act issuccessful (including the felicity conditions, e?.
).Similarly, for a series of utterances to count as a refutation, they must beseen as operating in the illocutionary mode of rcfutation, as for example, inthc text below:(3) You have stated that 2 + 2 = 3.
But take any two individualobjects and any other two individual objectx and place them in arow.
Then count them.
say.
from left to righL What do you get?Not 3 but 4.
Therefore; 2 + 2 cannot equal 3.We cannot interpret any of these utterances accurately unless we recognizethat each contributes to the achievement of a focused goal, viz.
a refiJtadon.Once that intention is recognized, appropriatenc-ss and well-formodnessconditions can be applied to the text; and the success of the act can hemeasured against the set of criteria which are relevant to refutations,including the usual felicity conditions, but also specific conditions on theproduction of factual evidence and the demonstration of contradiction.Following this new characterization f speech acts, yet another type can bedescribed, operating not at the uttcrancc level, or the supra-utterancc level,but at the sub-uttcrancc level.
As an illustration of the phcnomcnoninvolvcd, consider thc following uncxccptionable utterance:(4) 1 tom the guy at the door to watch out, but he wouldn't listen.The sccond refcrence to the guy of the first clause is made via theanaphoric pronoun he.
But suppose, instead, a definite referring expressionwcre used.
Consider thc following:(5) I told the guy at the door to watch out, but the person wouldn't listen.The person is a distinctly odd corefcrent, and seems inappropriate 3.
Anexamination of  this context reveals that the only definite 4 referringexpressions which caterer felicitously are pronomin;d epithets, such as theidiot, the fool?
etc.
; descriptions which can be given an interpretation asderogatives, such as the saphomore; and expressions whose literalinterpretation contributes some sense of  explanation to the situation beingrepresented -- viz.
thaL though warned, the guY at the door didn't heed thewarning -- as in the deafmute.113It can be shown that the principle involved is a speech act-likephenomenon.
First.
it can be noted that the choice nn_.~t o use theunmarked corefercnt, he.
signals that the speaker has some special intentionin mind.
Second.
following a suggestion in Balinger (1977:7ff).
it can beargued that a repeated efinite description functions not only to refei" butalso to characterize the referent as having the sense of the definitedescription.
Finatly.
it can be shown that all the acceptable definitedescriptions in this context can be interpreted uniformly as offering anexplanation 5 for the failure to listen expressed by the second clause.Note that the choice of coreferent in the case of the use of a definitereferring expre~on is not.
stricdy speaking, lexically governed.Furfficrmorc.
the use ot` selectional features, as in Chomsky (1965) and morerecent work ,on generative grammar, cannot consWaln the context for such achoice.
In short, the problem is one of interpretation, and appropriatenessis governed by the intention being served by the choice of the referringexpression.Consider.
then, an utterance such as the following:(6) \[ told the guy al the door to watch out.
but the idiot wouldn't listen.The difference between (4) and (6) is not me~ly one of different lexicalitems (he and the idiot).
Rather.
the use of 1he idiot makes (6) a morecomplex utterance than (4), involving an embedded speuch act.
namely, acharacterization whose purpose is to express an attitude and thereby(indirectly) offer explanation.3.
SITUATION SEMANTICS AND DISCOURSEIf speech acts or speech act-h"ke phenomena are found at many levels ofdiscourse, and if it is not possible to give a syntactic definition of a speechact, how can the notion of speech acts be integrated into a formal, and inparticular, a computational nalysis of d iscou~?
The natural alternative toa syntactic definition is a semantic one 6. and the approach to se, mantieswhich offers the greatest promise in treating discourse is the situationsemantics being developed at Stanford by Jon Barwise and John Perry (c?Bat'wise (forthcoming).
P, arwise and Perry (1980), Barwise and Perry(forthcoming a).
and Barwise and Perry (forthcoming, b)).Briefly, this new semantics is informed by the notion that the actual worldcan be thought of as cunsisting of situations, which in turn consist of objectshaving properties and standing in relationships.
Any actual situation is fartoo rich in detail to be captured by any finite process, so in practice,,perceptions of situations, beliefs about situations, natural languagedescriptions-of situations, cte.. are actually situation-typeS, which arc partialfunctions characterizing various types of situattons.
(Cf.
Barwise (198I) fora more complete discussion of this point.
)\[n situation semantics, scntences do not map directly to troth-values, butrather are understood as designating situation-types.
Totally understandinga statement would entail that one t: able to derive a situation-type whichincludes all the objects, properties, and relationships represented in thestatement.A series of statements in discourse can be viewed as creating, modifying,embellishing, or manipulating sots of situation-types.
Some utterancesinvoke situation-types: some ac~ as functions taking whole situation-types asargumcnLs.
Fur example, an initial act of reference coupled with someproposition about the referent can be seen as initiating the construction of asituation-type around the referent: an act of coreference` with somepromotion, can be seen as adding a new property or relationship to anindividual in an existing situation-type.The discourse situation, too, can be represented as a set of situation-types.initially containing at least the speaker, the addressee, and the mutualknowledge of speaker and addressee that they arc in a discourse situation.Any utterance which occurs exploits this diacouzse situation and cannot be'interpreted independently of it.
The utterance itself, however, effects acl~ange in the discourse ~ituation.
as its interpretation is added.
It is inrepresenting the effect of the utterance that the theory of speech acts hasapplication.The dynamic proecss of diseour~?
can bc modelled as a step by sCepmodification of the discourse situation, with each step taking the set ofsituation-types of the discourse situation, coupled with the interpretation ofthe utterance, to a new set of situation-types of the diseours?
situation.There are many interesting details to this model which must be ignored in apaper of this scope, but several ob~rvations relevant o speech acts can bemade,First.
this model accommodates the distinction made by most speech actth?orist.s between what a speaker says - the locutionary act -- and what aspeaker intends to communicate (or means) - the illocutionary act -/.
Thisdistinction is rcpeated and coptt)red hcre in the treatment of the actualdiscourse as a oair of sets of situation-types.
One gives the set of situation-types of the text (written or spoken) -- s t - and can be regarded asrepresenting the Iocutionary aspect of the act.
The other gives the set ofsituation-types of the diseoursc situation (including author and reader orspeaker and addressee) -- s d - and can be regarded as representing the stateof  knowledge about the discourse -- including the information revealed byinfcrring the intentions of the speaker - at the time the utterance isproduced.
The interpretation ot` s t relative to s d, f (<s t. Sd>), giver a new setof situation-types of the diseourse situatiun.
Sd'.
The illocutionary act canbe thought of as difference between s d' and s d.Second.
this characterization of an illocutionary act is consonant withpsychological features of actual discourse, in actual interaction, what thespeaker says -- the Iocutionary act - is highly volatile: the exact words ofan utterance more than a few seconds past may be lost forever.
Whatremains is the effect of those words, in particular, as composed in longer-term memory.
What is remembered represents the state achieved by thediscourse, and that reflects directly what the addr~r, ee has inferrred about"the speaker's intentions.
Put another way.
what becomes tored as memoryrepresents what the addressee inferred about what the speaker meant by hisutterance.
8Third.
one con regard the problem of interpreting the current status of thediseuurse as similar to the problem of deriving the current state in aS'l'RIPS-like system (ct'.
I-'ikes and Nilsson (1971)): the correct version mustbe the result of the application of a series of operations, in correct order, toall previous states.
The current set of situation-types of the discoursesituation can be seen as representing the accumulation of the effects thathave resulted from a series of  discrete operations.4.
OPERATIONS ON S ITUAT ION-TYPESThere are various ways that a word or phrase can count as an operation ona situation-type.
For example, an utterance or part of an utterance could(a) take a whole situation-type as an argument, or(b) introduce an object and a property, or(c) intrbduec two or more objects and a relationship, or(d) introd=~-c an object or a property or a relationship into anexisting situation-type.
(a) would apply to phrases like by the way, anyway, etc., which havethe effect of shifung focus or "clearing the slate" for a new text fragment.Cases (b) and (c) ensure that the utterance or part of utterance, it" textinitial, conuLins enough information to enable a situation-type to be derived.Case (d) accounts for those instances where a situation-type is clearlyestablished and a single word or reference can effect a change in thesituation-type.For example, the name John (used constativeiy) at the beginning of aninteraction cannot count as a operation on a situation-type, as no situation-type of the diseoum: text then exists, and the name John alone cannotcreate one.
However.
the name ./ok, at'ter a question, such as Who took mybook~ can count as a operation, since it.
together with the interpretation ofthe question, serves to introduce a new object and proposes into anexisting situation-type.Returning to a sentence like (6) (rcpeated below), it is possible to see that,in fact.
a series of operations.are involved in deriving the final situation-typeof the text.
(6) !
told the guy at the door to watch ouL but the idiot wouldn'!
listen.The utterance corresponding to the first grammatical clause creates thesituation-type in which tllcre is the guy at the door and the speaker and therelationship of the speaker having told the guy at the door to watch out.The word but can be viewed as function mapping situation-types intosituatiun-types where a relationship or property somehow implicated in thefirst situation-type is "shown explicitly not to hold in the derived situation-type.
'llm balance of the second clause modifies the situation-type so thatthe guy at the door now has the property both of having been told by the114spcakcr to watch out.
and of having not listened, manifesting thc violationof supposed normative behavior.
"rhc fact that the guy at the door has beenreferred to as the idiot has added a further property, or characterization.The situation-type of the text at the end of  the utterance of the secondclause includcs the speaker with die property of having told the guy at thedoor to watch out and having judged him as an idiot for not listening, andthe guy at the door who Ilad bccn told to watch out by the speaker but whodid not listcn, and who has been judged to have behaved idiotically.
(Thereactually are othcr relationships here.
but a more eomplcto description addsnothing to the general point being illustrated.
)In this case, then, there are at least three steps in thc "semantic" parsing ofthe utterance: thc initial creation of the situation-type (the first clause), theinterpretation of but.
and the modification of the initial situation-type toaccommodate the information in the second clause.5.
SPEECH ACTS AS OPERATIONS ON SFI'IJATION-TYPF~SThus far the relationship between situation-types and speech acts has notbeen made expliciL Recall that speech acts can be characterized acs havingboth an intentional component and some representation of the conditionswhich must be met for the speech act to have been suecessfully performed.But more importandy, a speech act is not successfully performed until theaddressee recognizes that its performance was attempted: and thatrecognition effects a change in the relationship between the speaker and theaddressee.
This change in relationship can be regarded as an effect of anoperation on the set of situation-types of the discourse situation (not of thetext).
But a speech act.
even if clearly understood as intended, is notsuccessful unless it effects specific changes in the set of situation-types ofthe text, as well.
Therefore.
speech acts can be thought of as the effects ofthe application of one or more inference nabling functions to the pair ofsets of situation-types giving the model of  the discourse (f (<s t. Sd>)).It is possible to use situation-typeS as the basis of a definition of speech actsby requin.ng that speech acts be the result of the application of an inferenceenabling function to an utterance in a discourse situation such that thederived situation-typc confi)rms to one of a (finite) number of speech act-types.
In othcr words, fur an utterance or a series of utteranccs to count asa speech act.
the utterance or utterances must minimally(i) perform an operation on a situation-type, and(i i) derive a situation-type which is defined (for speaker and addressee)as the legitimate end state of a speech act,This means that the rules governing the form of speech acts are actuallyrules specifying the relationships that must obtain in the situation-typewhich would result from the successful performance of the speech act.
Inshort, this allows us to view speech acts as being driven by certain situation-types as goals.Simpler spcech act-types, such as performativcs, correspond neatly tovarious unary operations on situation-types.
An asscrtion operates on thesituation-type of the text by introducing objects and properties orrelationships that correspond to the proposition of the assertion.
But it also'introduces the speaker in an ASSERT relationship to the proposition.
Andgiven the constrainLs on truly felicitous assertions, this would also introducethe implicature that the speaker believes the proposition.
In particular.following the taxonomy and characterization f illocotionary acts in II~hand Hamish (1979:39ff).
an assertion has the effect, for any speaker.
S. andany propositiun, P, of  cre;,ting the following situation-type:s (believe.
S. P) = IBy accepting tile assertion -- different from accepting the truth of theassertion -- thc addressee acknowledges that the above situation-type isadded to the set of situation-types giving the discourse situation.A complete deseription of the speech act-type ASSERT would consist of thefullowing set of situation-types:ASSERT PSl: s s(t~, S. P) = Is2: s (believe.
S. P) = Is 1, s 2 arc in s d'Sub-utterance speech acts can be accounted for, now.
by vicwing thesituation-types of the text which thcy achieve as being dependent on orcoincident with the situation-types achicved by the whole of the utterance inwhich they are cmbeddcd.
Of  course, there must be an accompanyingoperation on the situation-type of the discourse situation rcpresenting theeffect of the perceived intention to achieve the sub-uteranee speech act -- asin the marked choice of a definite referring expression instead of a simplepronoun, as in (6).Supra-utterance speech acts can also be captured in this framework.
Aspeech act like REFUTE, for example, cannot be defined in terms of  anyspecifiable number of steps, or any specifiable ordering of operations.
Itsonly possible definition is in terms of a final state in which all theconditions on refutation have been satisfied.
In terms of situationsemantics, this corresponds to a set of situation-types -- albeit verycomplex -- in which all the nec~sary relationships hold.
Since suchcomplex sets of  situation-types represent the accumulated effects of all theoperations which have occurred, without representing the order ofapplication of those operations, there is nothing in the definition ofREFUTE that requires that a specific order of operations be carded ourSomeone might refi~te an argument very efficiently: someone lse.
only aftera series of false starts or after the introduction of numerous irrelevancies.The end result would be, and should be.
the same.
from a speech act-theoretic point of view.This characterization f speech acts, as the end states of a derivation on asequence of  situation typeS, explains naturally some of the culture-relativecharacteristics of supra-utterance speech acts.
To take but one example, ithas been noted in Taylor (1971) that in agrarian JapaneSe society there is nonotion that corresponds to NEGOTIATE.
Clearly.
given the manifestsuccess of  urban Japanese u} obtain lucrative foreign contracts, the absenceof such a spcech act-type among rural Japanese cannot be attributed to factsof the Japanese language.
What we could say, given the approach ere.
isthat the set of situation-types which is the cnd-stata of  NEGOTIATE is not.par  of the inventory of distinguished speech act-types in the rural Japanese"diseou rsc dialecL"6.
SOME EXAMPI,F.S OF SPEECH ACT-TYPESThe fullnwing sets of situatinn-types can serve as examples of  the s~tesachieved by several simple, eonstativc speech act-types.
As before, thetaxonomic features are based on Bach and Harnish (1979), with speaker, S,addressee(s), A, and proposition, P.INFORM PSl: s ~(.~.~, S, P) = 1s2: s (believe, S, P) = 1s3: s (believe, A, P) = 1s 1, s 2, s 3 are in s d'REFRACT PSl: s ~(_~t, S, P) = Is2: s (believe, S, NOT P) = 1s3: s (belier.c, S, P) = 1s 2 is in s ds I. s 3 are in s d'CONTRADICT Psl: s ~(.~?, S, NOT P) = 1s2: s (belicyc, S, NOT P) = 1s3: s (believe, A, P) = 1s 3 is in s d and s d's 1, s 2 are in s d'The characterization of speech acts presentod here focuses on end-stateconditions, hut clearly the starting statcs (specifically.
the set of situation-types of the discourse situation and of the text from which an end-state is tobe achieved) also affect speech act performance.
A more completespecification of the initial and final states of  the discourse pair of  sets ofsituation-types for a variety of speech act-types, involving an elaboration ofthe role of inference cnahling functions and other constraints on theinterpretation of uRerances~ is given in L:vans (in progress).115FOOTNOTES:I.
Work on this papcr was s,,pportcd in part by a fellowship from theStanford Cognitive Scicnce Grou~.
I am deeply indebted to Jon Bar)visefor long and patient discussions of the ideas presented here.
and to DwightBolinger.
Jerry Hobbs.
John Perry.
lvar Tunisson.
Tom Wasow, and "FerryWinograd fi)r valuable comments and suggestions.
1 have aJso profited fromconversauons with Ray Pcrrault and the SRI T\[NLUNCH discussion groupon matters indircctly rclatcd co those di,~usscd here.
Of course.
\[ aloneremain respo,siblc for crrors, omissions, and other def?icncies.2.
It has been pointed out m me by Dwight Bolinger that some utterancesin Spanish in the past tense can count as direct speech act promises (e.g.
Unmomemo y acab~.).
"\['his sort of promise is similar to the Englishexclamation.
Do,eL which can be used in sufficiently constrained contextsto effect a promise or commitment.3.
This particular examplc was first brought o my 'attention by TerryWinograd.4.
it is clear that strongly demonstrativc d finite referring expressions usingthis or that do not manifest this sort of inappropriateneSS.5.
The observation that this context seems to be servicing an explanationwas first madc by John Perry in a discussion of these data.6.
Thc notion of semantics I am employing shemld be understood asincluding certain features usually segregated under praEmatics.7.
l\[ would be outsidc thc realm of speech acts proper to consider the thirdhorse in this scmiotic troika: what a speakcr actually achieves by hisuttcrancc, i.e.
bow his utterance aftL'cts the addressee - the perlncudonaryeffect.
"\['his three-way contrast was first articulated by Austin (cf.
Austin( 1%2: lOOfl)).g.
Attempts to incorporate this aspect of actual discourse into models ofdiscourse processcs are certainly not new.
in artificial intelligenceapplications, episodic mcmoq, has been used m maintain representations ofthe discourse situation, as, for example, in Grosz (1977).
Hobbs (1976).Mann.
el al.
(1977).
and elscwbere.REFERENCF.S:Allen.
J.
(1979) .4 plan-based approach to speech act recogntion.
TechnicalReport No.
131/79.
DcpL of Computer Science.
University of Toronto.Austin.
J. L. (1962) How to "do things with vmrd~ Cambridge.
Mass.
:Harvard Univcrsity Press.
and London: Clar~tdon Pres~Bach.
Kent.
and Robert M. Hamish (1979) Linguistic communication andspeech acts, Cambridge, Mass.
: The M.I.T.
Press.Barwise, Jon (1981) Some computational aspects of situation semantics, inthis volume.Barwise, Jon (forthcoming) Scenes and other situations, in The Journal ofPhilosophy.Barwise, Jon and John Perry (1980) The situation underground, in WorkingPapers in $emamies.
Vol.
1, Stanford University.Barwise.
Jon and John Perry (forthcoming, a) Semantic innocence anduncompromising situations, in Midwest Studies in Philosophy,-&P, arwise.
Jon and John Perry (forthcoming, b) Situation semantic~Bolinger, Dwight (1977) Pronouns and repeated nouns, Bloomington, Ind.
:Indiana Univcrsity Lin~mistics Club.Bruce.
B. and l).
Newman (1978) Interacting plans, in Cognitive Scienee~ 2,\[95-233.Cohen.
P. R. (1978) On knowing what to say: planning speechTechnical Report No.
liB.
Dept.
of Computer Science.
University ofToronto.Cohen, P. R. and C. R. Perrault (1979) Elements of a plan based theory of~h ac~ in Cognitive Scienc~ 3, 177-212.Chomsky, Noam (1965) Aspects of the theory of synta.x, Cambridge.
Mass.
:The M.I.T.
Press,Dore.
John (1977) Children's illncutionary acts, in R.O.
Freedlc (Ext.
)Discourse Production mid Comprehension.
Norwood.
N. J.: AblexPublishing Corporation.
227-244.Evans, David A.
(in progress) Situations and speech acts."
toward a formalsemantics of.discourse, Stanford University Ph.D. dissertation.Fikes.
R. and N. J. Nilsson (1971) STRIPS: A new approach to theapplication of theorem proving to problem solving, in Artificial lntelligenc?2.
189-208.Grosz.
Barbara (1977) The representation and use of focus in dialogueunderstanding.
Stanford Research Institute Technical Note 151.
StanfordResearch lnsititum, Menlo P~rL California.Hobbs.
Jerry R, (1976) A computational pproach to discourse analysis.Research Raporz No 76-2.
Department of Computer Scienc, e~ CityCollege.
City University of New York.Labov, William and David Fanshcl (1977) Therapeutic discourse.
NewYork: Academic Pre~.Mann.
W.. J. Moore, and J. Levin (1977) A comprehension model forhuman dialogue, in Proceedings of the international joint conference onartificial intelligence.
Cambridge.
Mass.. 77-g7.Perrault.
R. C.. J. Allen.
and P. R. Cohen 0978) Speech acts as a basis forundcrstanding dialogue cohcnmce, in Proceedings of the second conferenceml theoretical issues m natural language proce~ng.
Champaign-Urbana.
IlLScarle.
John (1%9) Speech acts an essay in the philosophy of  languag~Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.Scarle, John (1975) Meaning, communication and representation"unpublished manuscript.Taylor.
C. (1971) Interpretation and ~ sciences of nv~n" in The Revkn~ ofMetaphy~cs.
YoL 25.
No.
1.
3-$1.116
