What's Necessary to Hide?
:Modeling Action VerbsJames F. AlienCom purer Science 1)epartmen tUniversity of RochesterRochester, NY 14627AhstractThis paper considers what types of knowledge onemust possess in order to reason about actions.
Rather thanconcentrating on how actions are performed, as is done inthe problem-solving literature, it examines the set ofconditions under which an action can be said to haveoccurred.
In other words, if one is told that action Aoccurred, what can be inferred about the state of theworld?
In particular, if the representation can define suchconditions, it must have good models of time, belief, andintention.
This paper discusses these issues and suggests aformalism in which general actions and events can bedefined.
Throughout, the action of hiding a book fromsomeone is used as a motivating example.I.
Introductio,This paper suggests a formulation of events andactions that seems powerful enough to define a wide rangeof event and action verbs in English.
This problem isinteresting for two reasons?
The first is that such a model isnecessary to express the meaning of many sentences.
Thesecond is to analyze the language production andcomprehension processes themselves as purposeful action.This was suggested some time ago by Bruce \[1975\] andSchmidt \[1975\].
Detailed proposals have beenimplemented recently for some aspects of languageproduction \[Cohen, 1978\] and comprehension \[Alien.1979\].
As interest in these methods grows (e.g., see \[Grosz,1979; Brachman, 1979\]).
the inadequacy of existing actionmodels becomes increasingly obvious.The formalism for actions used in most naturallanguage understanding systems is based on case grammar.Each action is represented by a set of assertions about the?
semantic roles the noun phrases play with respect o theverb.
Such a tbrmalism is a start, but does not explain howto represent what an action actually signifies.
If one is toldthat a certain action occurred, what does one know abouthow the world changed (or didn't change!).
This paperattempts to answer this question by oudining a temporallogic in which the occurrence of actions can be tied todescriptions of the world over time.One possibility for such a mechanism is found in thework on problem-solving systems (e.g.
\[I:ikes and Nilsson,197\]; Sacerdoti, 1975\]), which suggests one commonformulation of action.
An acuon is a function from oneworld state to a succeeding world state and is described bya set of prerequisites and effects, or by decomposition i tomore primitive actions.
While this model is extremelyuseful for modeling physical actions by a single actor, itdoes not cover a large class of actions describable inI-ngiish.
\[:or instance, many actions seemingly describenml-activity (e.g.
standing still), or acting in some non-specified manner to preserve a state (e.g.
preventing yourtelevismn set from being stolen).
Furthermore, manyaction descriptions appear to be a composition of simpleractions that are simultaneously executed.
For instance,"Walking to the store while juggling three bails"seems to be composed of the actions of"walking to the storeand"juggling three bails.
"It is not clear how such an action could be definedfrom the two simpler actions if we view actions asfunctions from one state to another.The approach suggested here models events imply aspartial descriptions of the world over some Lime interval.Actions are then defined as a subclass of events thatinvolve agents.
Thus, it is simple to combine two actionsinto a new action, The new description simply consists ofthe two simpler descriptions hglding over the sameintervalThe notions of prerequisite, result, and methods ofperforming actions will not arise in this study.
While theyare iraportant for reasoning about how to attain goals, theydon't play an explicit role in defining when an action canbe said to have occurred.
To make this point clear,consider the simple action of turning on a light.There are few physical activities that are a necessarypart of performing this action, Depending on the context,vastly different patterns or" behavior can be classified asthe same action, l;or example, turning on a light usuallyinvolves Hipping a light switch, but in some circumstancesit may involve tightening the light bulb (in the basement).or hitting the wail (m an old house).
Although we haveknowledge about how the action can be pertbrmed, thisdoes nol define what the action is.
The key definingcharacteristic of turning on the light seems to be that theagent is performing some activity which will cause thelight, which is off when the action starts, to become onwhen the action ends.
The importance of this observationis that we could recognize an observed pattern of activityas "turning on the light" even if we had never seen orthought about that pattern previously.The model described here is in many ways similar tothat of Jackendoff \[1976\].
He provides a classification ofevent verbs that includes verbs of change (GO verbs) andverbs that assert a state remaining constant over aninterval of time (STAY verbs), and defines arepresentation f action verbs of both typesby introducingthe notion of  agentive causality and permission.
However,Jackendoff does not consider in detail how specific actionsmight be precisely defined with respect o a world model.The next two sections of this paper will introduce thetemporal logic and then define the framework for definingevents and actions.
To be as precise as possible, I haveremained within the notation of the first order predicatecalculus?
Once the various concepts are precisely defined,the next necessary step in this work is to define acomputaUonally feasible representation and inferenceprocess, Some of this work has already been done.
Forexample, a computational model of the temporal logic canbe found in Allen \[198.1\]?
Other areas axe currently underinvestigation.7'7/ "The final section demonstrates the generality of theapproach by analyzing the action of hiding a book fromsomeone.
In this study, various other important conceptualentities such as belief, intention, and causality are brieflydiscussed.
Finally, a definition of.what it means to hidesomething is presented using these tools.2.
A Temporal l,ogieBefore we can characterize events and actions, we needto specify a temporal ogic.
The logic described here isbased on temporal intervals.
Events that appear to refer toa point in time (i.e., finishing a race) are considered to beimplicitly referring to another event's beginning or ending.Thus the only time points we will see will be the endpointsof intervals.The logic is a typed first order predicate calculus, inwhich the terms fall into the following three broadcategories:- terms of type TIME-INTERVAL denodng timeintervals;terms of type PROPERTY, denoting descriptionsthat can hold or not hold during a particular time;andterms corresponding to objects in the domain.There are a small number of predicates.
One of the mostimportant is HOLDS, which asserts that a property holds(i.e., is true) during a time interval..ThusHOLDS(#,Ois true only if property p holds during t. As a subsequentaxiom will state, this is intended to mean that p holds atevery subinterval o f t  as well.There is no need to investigate the behavior ofHOLDS fully here.
but in Allen \[forthcomingJ variousfunctional forms are defined that can be used within thescope of a HOLDS predicate that correspond to logicalconnectives and quantifiers outside the scope of theHOLDS predicate.There is a basic set of mutually exclusive relations thatcan hold between temporal intervals.
-Each of these isrepresented by a predicate in the logic..The mostimportant are:DURING(tl, t2)--time interval tl is fully containedwithin 12, although they may coincide on theirendpoints.BEFORE(tl,t2)--time interval t\] is before interval 12,and they do not overlap in any way:OVERLAP(tl, t2)--interval tl starts before t2, andthey overlap;MEETS(tl, t2)--interval tl is before interval 12, butthere is no interval between them, i.e., tl endswhere t2.
starts.Given these predicates, there is a set of axiomsdefining their interrelations.
For example, there areaxioms dealing with the transitivity of the temporalrelationships.
Also, there is the axiom mentionedpreviously when the HOI,I)S predicate wa~ introduced:namely(A.\]) IfOLDS(p.t) & DURING(tl.t) --) HOI,DS(p.tl)This gives us enough tools to define the notion of action inthe next section.3.
Events and ActionsIn order to define the role that events and actions playin the logic, the logical form of sentences asserting that anevent has occurred must be discussed.
Once even~ havebeen defined, actions will be defined in terms of them.One suggestion for the logical form is to define for eachc\[,,~ of events a property such that the property HOI.I)Sonly if the event occurred.
This can be discardedimmediately as axiom (A.\]) is inappropriate for events.
Ifan event occurred over some time interval "\['.
it does notmean that the event also occurred over all subintervals ofT.
So we introduce a new type of object in the logic,namely events, and a new predicate OCCUlt.
l),yrepresenting events as objects in the logic, we haveavoided the difficulties described in Davidson \[1967\].Simply giving the logical form of an event is only asmall part of the analysis.
We must also define for eachevent the set of conditions that constitute its occurrence.As mentioned in the introduction, there seems to be norestriction on what kind of conditions can he used todefine an event except that they must partially describethe world over some time interval.For example, the event "the ball moving from x to y"could be modeled by a predicate MOVE with fourarguments: the object, the source, the goal location, andthe move event itself.
Thus,MOVI'(IlalL x. y. m)asserts that m is an event consisting of the ball movingfrom x to y.
We assert hat this event occurred over time tby adding the assertionOCCUR(,~ t).With these details out of the way.
we can now definenecessary and sufficient conditions for the event'soccurrence.
For this simple class of move events, we needan axiom such as:(forall object, source, goaLt, e)MOVl'(object.source.goal.e) & OCCUR(~t)( - - )  (exists tl.t2)OVERLAPS(tl, t) & OVERLAPS(t.t2) &BF.FORE(tl.t2) &H O LD S(at(object.source).
t l ) &HOLDS(at(object, goal), t2 )A simple class of events consists of those that occuronly if some property remains constant over a particularinterval (c?
Jackendoffs STAY verbs).
For example, wemay assert in l'nglish"The ball was in the room during T.'""The ball remained in the room during T."78t"While these appear to be logically equivalent, they mayhave very different consequences in a conversation.
Thisformalism supports this difference.
The former sentenceasserts a proposition, and hence is of the formH O L D S(in( BalI, R oom), T)while the latter sentence describes an event, and hence isof the formREMAIN-IN(Bail, Room, e) & OCCURS(e T).We may capture the logical equivalence of the twowith the axiom:O'orall b.r,e,OREMAIN-IN(b,r,e) & OCCUR(nO(=)  HOL1)S(in(b.r),O,The problem remains as to how the differencesbetween these logically equivalent formulas arise incontext.
One possible difference is that the second maylead the reader to believe that it easily might not havebeen the case.Actions are events that involve an agent in one of twoways.
The agent may cause the event or may allow theevent (cf.
\[Jackendoff, 1976\]).
Corresponding to these twotypes of agency, there are two predicates, ACAUSE andALLOW, that take an agent, an event, and an action asarguments.
Thus the assertion corresponding to"John moved 13 from S to G"i sMO VE(B, G,S, el) & ACA USE(Joh~ el.a1) &OCCUR(al.t)The axiomadzation for ACAUSE and ALLOW istricky, but Jackendoff provides a reasonable starting set.
Inthis paper, I shall only consider agency by causationfurther.
The most important axiom about causality is(A.2) (forall a,e, act.OACAUSE(a,e.acO & OCCUR(act, t)=> OCCUR(cOFor our purposes, one of the most important factsabout the ACAUSE relation is that it suggests thepossibility of intentionality on the part of the agent.
Thiswill be discussed in the next section.Note that in this formalism composition of events andactions is trivial.
For example, we can define an actioncomposition function together which produces an action orevent that consists of two actions or events occuringsimultaneously as follows:(A.3) (forall a,b.t)OCCURS(together(o,b).t) (=)OCCURS(c~O & OCCURS(b.t)4.
What's Necessary to Hide?The remainder of this paper applies the aboveformalism to the analysis of the action of hiding a bookfrom someone.
Along the way, we shall need to introducesome new representational tools for the notions of belief,intention, and causality,The definition of hiding a book should beindependent of any method by which the action wasperformed, for, depending on the context, the actor couldhide a book in many different ways.
For instance, theactor could- put the book behind a desk,- stand between the book and the other agent whilethey are in the same room, or- call a friend Y and get her or him to do one of theabove.Furthermore, the actor might hide ).he book by simplynot doing something s/he intended to do.
I:or example,assume Sam is planning to go to lunch with Carole afterpicking Carole up at Carole's office, if, on the way out ofSam's office, Sam decides not to take his coat because hedoesn't want Carole to see it, then Sam has hidden thecoat from Carole.
Of course, it is crucial here that Sambelieved that he normally would have taken the coat.
Samcouldn't have hidden his coat by forgetting to bring it.This example brings up a few key points that may notbe noticed from the first three examples.
First' Sam musthave intended to hide the coat.
Without this intention (i.e.,in the forgetting case), no such action occurs.
Second, Sammust have believed that it was likely that Carole would seethe coat in the future course of events.
Finally, Sam musthave acted in such a way that he then believed that Carolewould not see the coat in the future course of events.
Ofcourse, in this case, the action Sam performed was "notbringing the coat," which would normally not beconsidered an action unless it was intentionally not done.I claim that these three conditions provide areasonably accurate definition of what it means to hidesomething.
They certainly cover the four examplespresented above.
As stated previously, however, thedefinition is rather unsatisfactory, as many extremelydifficult concepts, such as belief and intention, werethrown about casually.There is much recent work on models of belief (e.g.,\[Cohen, 1978; Moore, 1979; Perils, 1981" Haas, 1981\]).
lhave little to add to these efforts, so the reader mayassume his or her favorite model.
I will assume that beliefis a modal operator and is described by a set of axiomsalong the \[iu~ of Hintikka \[I962\].
The one importantthing to notice, though, is that there are two relevant imeindices to each belief; namely, the time over which thebelief is held, and the time over which the proposition thatis believed holds.
For example.
I might believe ~oda.v thatit rained last weekend.
This point wiil be crucial inmodeling the action of hiding.
To introduce somenotation, let"A believes (during To) that p holds (during Tp)"be expressed asH O LDS(believes(A. holde(p. Tp)), Tb).79The notion of intention is much less understood thanthe notion of belief.
However, let us approximate thestatement"A intends (during Ti) that action a happen (duringTa)"byand"A believes (during Ti)that a happen (during Ta)""A wants (during Ti) that a happen (during Ta)"This is obviously not a philosophically adequatedefiniuon (e.g., see \[Searle, 1980\]), but seems ufficient forour present purposes.
The notion of wanting indicates thatthe actor finds the action desirable given the alternatives.This notion appears impossible to axiomatize as wants donot appear to be rational (e.g.
Hare \[\]97\]\]).
However, byadding the belief that the action will occur into the notionof intention, we ensure that intentions must be at least asconsistent as beliefs.Actions may be performed intentionally orunintentionally.
For example, consider the action ofbreaking a window.
Inferring intentionality from observedaction is a crucial ability needed in order to communicateand cooperate with other agents.
While it is difficult toexpress a logical connection between action and intention,one can identify pragmatic or plausible inferences that canbe used in a computational model (see \[Allen, 1979\]).With these tools, we can attempt a more precisedefinition of hiding.
The time intervals that will berequired are:Th--the time of the hiding event;Ts--the time that Y is expected to see the book;Tbl - - the time when X believes Y will see the bookduring "l's, which must be BEFORE "l'h;Tb3--the time when X believes Y will not see thebook during Ts, which must be BEI"ORE orDURING Th and AI"I'I'~R Tbl.We will now define the predicateH I D I.
'(agent, observer, object, a~t)which asserts that act is an action of hiding.
Since itdescribes an action, we have the simple axiom capturingagency:(forall agent, observer, obJect, actH I D l:'(agent, observer, object, act)=)  (Exists e ACAUSE(agent, e, act)))l.et us also introduce an event predicateS E l:'(agent, object, e)which asserts that e is an event consisting of agent seeingthe object.Now we can define HIDE as follows:(forall ag, obs, o.a.
77z,HIDl'.
'(ag.obs, o a) & OCCUR(aTh)=)  (Extsts Ts.Tbl, Tb3,e)1) HO LDS(intends(a& occur(a. Th)).
Th)2) HOLDS(believes(ag, occur(e.Ts)),Tbl)3) H O LDS(betieveKa& ~occur(e, Ts)), 7"b3)where4) SEE(obs, o,e)and the intervals Th, Ts, Tb\], Tb3 are related as discussedabove.
Condition (4) defines e as a seeing event, andmight also need to be within ag's beliefs.This definition is lacking part of our analysis; namelythat there is no mention that the agent's beliefs changedbecause of something s/he did.
We can assert that theagent believes (between Tbl and Tb3) he or she will do anaction (between Tbl and Th) as follows:(existx" al, el, Tb25) ACAUSlf(a&el,aD6) H O LDS(believes(ag, OCC UR(al, Tal)), Tb2)where 7"b1 ( Tb2 ( Tb3 andTbl (But this has notcaused the change in(3) are true, assertingTal ( Titcaptured the notion that belief (6)belief from (2) to (3).
Since (6) anda logical implication from (6) to (3)would have no force.
It is essential that the belief (6) be akey-element in the reasoning that leads to belief (3).To capture this we must introduce a notion ofcausality.
This notion differs from ACAUSE in many ways(e.g.
see \[Taylor, 1966\]), but for us the major difference isthat, unlike ACAUSE, it suggests no relation tointentionality.
While ACAUSE relates an agent to anevent, CAUSE relates events to events.
The events inquestion here would be coming to the belief (6), whichCAUSES coming to the belief (3).One can see that much of what it means to hide iscaptured by the above.
In particular, the following can beextracted directly from the definition:- if you hide something, you intended to hide it, andthus can be held responsible for the action'sconsequences;- one cannot hide something if it were not possiblethat it could be seen, or if it were certain that itwould be seen anyway;- one cannot hide something simply by changingone's mind about whether it will be seen.In addition, there ate many other possibilities relatedto the temporal order of events.
For instance, you can'thide something by performing an action after ,,he hiding issupposed to be done.8OConclusionI have introduced a representation for events andactions that is based on an interval-based temporal ogic.This model is sufficiently powerful to describe vents andactions that involve change, as well as those that involvemaintaining a state.
In addition, the model readily allowsthe composition and modification of events and actions.In order to demonstrate he power of the model, theaction of hiding was examined in detail.
This forced theintroduction of the notions of belief, intention, andcausality.
While this paper does not suggest anybreakthroughs in representing these three concepts, it doessuggest how they should interact with the notions of time,event, and action.At present, this action model is being extended so thatreasoning about performing actions can be modeled.
Thiswork is along the lines described in \[Goldman, 1970\].AcknowledgementsThe author wishes to thank Jerry Feldman, Alanl:risch, Margery I.ucas, and Dan I,',ussell for manyenlightening comments on previous versions of this paper.This research was supported in part by the NationalScience.Foundation u der Grant No.
IST-80-\]2418, andin part by the Office of Naval Research under Grant No.N00014-80-C-0197.ReferencesAllen, J.l:., "A General View of Action and Time," TR,Dept.
Computer Science, U. Rochester, forthcoming.Allen, J.l'~., "A Plan-Based Approach to Speech ActRecognition," Ph.l).
thesis, Dept.
Computer Science,U.
Toronto, I979.Allen, J.F., "Maintaining Knowledge about TemporalIntervals," '1'I~,86, Dept.
Computer Science, U.I~ochester, January 1981.Brachman, R.J., "Taxonomy, Descriptions, and Individualsin Natural I.anguage Understanding," in Proc., 17thAnnual Meeting of the Assoc'n.
for ComputationalLinguistics, 33-37, UCSD, I,a Jolla.
CA, August 1979.Bruce, B., "l~elief Systems and I.anguage Understanding,"Report 2973, I\]olt, Beranek & Newman, Inc., 1975.Cohen, P.R., "On Knowing What to Say: Planning SpeechActs," "FR \] 18, Dept.
Computer Science, U. Toronto,1978.l)avidson, D., "The Logical Form of Action Sentences," inN.
Rescher (l:.d).
77,e Logic of Decision and Action.Pittsburgh, PA: U. Pittsburgh Press, 1967.F:ikes, R..E. and N.J. Nilsson, "STI~,II)S: A New Approachto the Application of Theorem Proving to ProblemSolving," Arttficial Intelligence 2, 189-205, I971.Goldman, A.
A 77retry of Human Actton.
New Jersey:Princeton U.
Press, 1970.Grosz, ILL, "Utterance and Objective: Issues in NaturalLanguage Communication," in Proc., 6th IJCAI, I067-1076, Tokyo, August 1979.Haas, A., "Sententialism and the I,ogic of l\]elief andAction," Ph.l).
thesis, Dept.
Computer Science, U.R, ochester, expected 1981.Hare, R.M.
"Wanting: Some Pitfalls," in Binkley,Bronaugh, and Morras (l'ds).
Agent.
Action, andReason.
Toronto: U. Toronto Press, 197l.Hintikka, J.
Knowledge and Belief Ithaca, NY: Cornell U.Press, 1962.Jackendoff, R., "Toward an "Explanatory Semanticl~,epresentation," Linguistic "lnquiry 7, 1, 89-150,Winter 1976.Moore, R.C., "Reasoning about Knowledge and Action,"Ph.D. thesis, Mlq', February 1979.Perils D., "Language, Computation, and Reality," Ph.D.thesis, Dept.
Computer Science, U. Rochester, i981.Sacerdoti, E.D.
A Structure for Plans and Behavior.
NewYork: -Elsevier North-Holland, Inc., 1977.Schank, R. arid R. Abelson.
Script~ Plan~ Goalx andUnderstanding.
Hillsdale, NJ: Lawrence ErlbaumAssociates, 1977.Schmidt, C.F., "Understanding Human Action," in Proc.,Theoretical Issues in Natural Language Processing,Cambridge, MA, 1975.Searle, J.R., "The Intentionality of Intention and Action,"Cognitive Science 4, l, 1980.Taylor, R. Action and Purpose.
New Jersey: Prentice Hall,1966,Wilensky, R., "Understanding Goal-Based Stories," Ph.D.thesis, Yale U., 1978.81
