SOME COMPUTATIONAL ASPECTS OF SITUATION S~21ANTICSJon BarwisePhilosophy DepartmentStanford Unlverslty~ Stanford, CaliforniaDepartments of Mathematics and Computer ScienceUniversity of Wisconsin, Madison, WisconsinCan a realist model theory  of natural language becomputationally plausible?
Or, to  put  i t  another way,is the view of linguistic meaning as a relation betweenexpressions of a natural language and things (objects,properties, etc.)
in the world, as opposed to are la t ion  between express ions  and procedures  in  the  head.consistent with a computational approach  tounderstanding natural language?
The model theorist musteither claim that the answer is yes, or be willing toadmit that humans transcend the computatlonally feasiblein their use of language?Until recently the only model theory of natural languagethat was at all well developed was Montague Grammar.Unfortunately, it was based on the primitive notion of"possible world" and so was not a realist theory, unlessyou are prepared to  grant that  all possible worlds arereal.
Montague Grammar is also computatlonallyintractable, for reasons to be discussed below.J ohn  Per ry  and I have  deve loped a somewhat d i f fe rentapproach  to  the  model  theory  o f  natura l  language,  atheor~ we call "Situation Semantics".
Since one of myown motivations in the early days of this project was touse the insights of generalized racurslon theory to finda eomputatlonally plausible alternative to MontagueGrammar, it seems fitting to give a progress reporthere .I.
MODEL-THEORETIC SEMANTICS "VERSUS"PROCEDURAL SEMANTICSFirst, however, l can't resist putting my two centsworth into this continuing discussion.
Proceduralsemantics starts from the observation that there issomething computational about our understanding ofnatural language.
This is obviously correct.
Wheresome go astray, though, is in trying to identify themeaning of an expression with some sort of program runin the head.
But programs are the sorts of things toHAVE meanings, not to BE meanings.
A meaningful programsets up some sort of relationship between things -perhaps a function from numbers to numbers, perhapssomething much more sophisticated.
But i t  is thatrelation which is its meaning, not some other program.The situation is analogous in the case of naturallanguage.
It is the relationships between things in theworld that  a language allows us to  express that  make alanguage meaningful.
I t  is these relationships that  areidentified with the meanings of the expressions in modeltheory.
The meaningful expressions are procedures thatdefine these relations that are their meanings?
Atleast this is the view that Perry and I take insituation semantics.With its emphasis on situations and events, situationsemantics shares some perspectives with  work inartificial intelligence on representing knowledge andaction (e.g., McCarthy and Hayes, 1969), but it differsi n  some cruc ia l  respects .
I t  i s  a mathemat ica l  theoryo f  l ingu is t i c  mean ing ,  one  that  rep laces  the  v iew o f  theconnect ion  between language and the  wor ld  a t  the  hear to f  Tarsk i - s ty le  model  theory  w i th  one much more l i kethat  found in  J .
L .
A -s t ln ' s  "T ruth" .
For  another ,  i ttakes  ser ious ly  the  syntact i c  s t ructures  of  natura llanguage,  d i rec t ly  in terpret ing  them wi thout  assuming  anin termediary  leve l  of  " log ica l  fo rm" .2.
A COMPUTATION OBSTRUCTION AT THE CORE OF~IRST-ORDER LOGICThe standard model-theory for first-order logic, andwith it the der ivat ive  model-theory of indices( "poss ib le  wor lds" )  used  in  Montague GrA~r  i s  based  onF rege 'a  suppos i t ion  that  the  re ference  of  a sentencecou ld  on ly  be taken  as  a t ru th  va lue ;  that  a l l  e l sespec i f i c  to  the  sentence  i s  los t  a t  the  leve l  ofre ference .
As Quine has  seen  most  c lear ly ,  theresu l t ing  v iew o f  semant ics  i s  one where  to  speak  o f  apar t  of  the  wor ld ,  as  in  (1 ) .
i s  to  speak  o f  the  wholeworld and of all th ings  in the world.
(I) The dog with the red collarbelongs to my son.There is a philosophical position that  grows out of thisview of logic, but it is not a practlc~l one for thosewho would implement the resulting model-theory as atheory of natural language.
Any treatment of (I) thatinvolves a universal quantification over all objects inthe domain of discourse is doom"d by facts of ordinarydiscourse, e.g., the fact that I can make a statementllke (I) in a situation to describe another situationwithout making any statement at all about other dogsthat come up later in a conversation, let alne aboutthe dogs of Tibet.Logicians have been all too ready to dismiss suchphilosophical scruples as irrelevant to our task--especially shortsighted since the same problem is wellknown to have been an obstacle in developing recurslontheory ,  both  ord inary  recur  s ion  theory  and thegenera l i za t ions  to  o ther  domains  l i ke  the  funct ions  o ff in i te  type .We fo rget  that  on ly  in  1938, severa l  years  a f te r  h i sin i t ia l  work  in  recurs lon  theory ,  d id  K /eene in t roducethe  c lass  o f  PARTIAL recurs lve  funct ions  in  o rder  toprove  the  famous Zecurs lon  Theorem.
We tend to  over lookthe  s ign i f i cance  of  th i s  move, f rom to ta l  to  par t ia lfunct ions ,  unt i l  i t s  impor tance  i s  b rought  in to  focus  ino ther  contexts .
Th is  i s  Jus t  what  happened when K leenedeve loped h is  recurs lon  theory  fo r  funct ions  o f  f in i tetype .
H is  in i t ia l  fo rmulat ion  res t r i c ted  a t tent ion  toto ta l  funct lons ,  to ta l  funct ions  o f  to ta l  funct lons ,e tc .
Two very  impor tant  pr inc ip les  fail in theresulting theory - the Substitution Theorem and theFirst Recurslon Theorem.This theory has been raworked by Platek (1963),Moschovakls (1975), and by Kleene (1978, 1980) using109partial functions, partial functions of partialfunctions, etc., as the  objects over which computationstake place, imposing (in one way or another) thefollowing constraint on all objects F of the theory:Persistence of Computations: If sis a partial function and F(s) isdef ined  then  F(s') m F(s )  fo r  everyextension s" of a.In other words, it should not be possible to invalidates computation that F(s) - a by simply adding furtherinformation to s. To put it yet  another way,computations involving partial functions s should onlybe ab le  to use positive information about s, notinformation of the form that s is undefined at this orthat argument.
To put it yet another way, F should becontinuous in the topology of partial information.Computatlonally, we are always dealing with partialinformation and must insure persistence (continuity) ofcomputations from it.
But thls is just what blocks astraightforward implementation of the standard model-theory--the whollstic view of the world which it iscommitted to ,  based on Frege's initial supposition.When one shifts from flrst-order model-theory to theindex or "possible world" se~antics used in ~ionta~e'ssemantics for natural language, the whollstlc view mustbe carried to  heroic lengths.
For index semantics mustembrace (as David Lewis does) the claim that talk abouta particular actual situation talks indirectly not Justabout everything which actually exists, but about allpossible objects and all possible worlds.
And It isjust thls point that raises serious difficulties forJoyce Friedman and her co-workers in their attempt toimplement ~iontague Grammar in a working system (Friedmanand Warren ,  1978) .The problem is that  the  bas ic  formalization of possibleworld semantics is incompatible wlth the limitationsimposed on us by partial information.
Let me illustratethe problem thec arises in a very  simple instance.
Inpossible world semantics, the meaning of a word llke"talk' is a total function from the set I of ALLposs ib le  wor lds  to  the  set  o f  ALL TOTAL funct ions  f romthe  set  A of ALL possible individuals to the  t ru thvalues 0, i.
The intuition is that b talks in 'world" iifmeaning('talk')(1)(d) - i.It is built into the  formalism that each world containsTOTAL information about the extensions of all words andexpressions of the language.
The meaning of an adverbllke "rapidly" is a total function from such functions(from I into Fun(A,2)) to other such functions.
Simplearithmetic shows that even if there are only I0individuals and 5 possible worlds, there are(iexpSO)exp(iexpSO) such functions and the specificationof even one is completely out of the question.The same sorts of problems come up when one wants Costudy the actual model-theory that goes wlth MontaEueSemantics, as in Gallin's book.
When one specifies thenotion of a Henkln model of intenslonal logic,  i t  mustbe done in a totally "impredlcatlve" way, since whatconst i tu tes  an  ob jec t  a t  any  one  type  depends  on  whatthe  ob jec ts  a re  o f  o ther  types .For  some t ime I toyed  w i th  the  idea  of  g iv ing  asemant ics  fo r  Hontasue 's  log ic  v ia  par t ia l  funct ions  buta t tempts  conv inced  me that  the  bas ic  in tu i t ion  beh indpossible wor lds  is really inconsistent wlth theconstraints placed on us by partial information.
At thesame tlme work on the semantics of  perception statementsled me away from possible worlds, while reinforcing myconviction that it was crucial to represent partialinformation about the world around us, informationpresent in the perception of the scenes before us and ofthe situations in which we find ourselves all the time.3.
ACTUAL sITUATIONS AND SITUATION-TYPESThe world we perceive a-~ talk about  consists not justof  ob jec ts ,  nor  even of  jus t  ob jec ts ,  p roper t ies  andre la t ions ,  hut  of  ob jec ts  hav ing  proper t ies  and s tand ingin  var ious  re la t ions  to  one another ;  that  i s ,  weperceive and talk about various types of situations fromthe  perspect ive  of other  situations.In situation semantics the meanlng of a sentence is arelation between various types of situations, types ofdiscourse situations on the one har~ and types of"sub ject  matter" sltuatio~s on the  other.
We representvarious types of situations abstractly as PARTIALfunctions from relations and objects to 0 and I. Forexample ,  the  types (be long ,  Jack ie ,  Jonny)  = 1s (dog ,  Jack ie )  " ls(smart, J ack le )  = 0represents a number of true facts about my son, Jonny,and his dog.
(It is important to realize that s istaken to be a function from objects, properties andrelations to 0,I, not from words to 0,Io)A typ ica l  s l tuat lon - - type  represent ing  a d i scoursesituation might be given byd(speak, Bill) = Id(father, Bill, Alfred) - id(dog,  Jackle) " Irepresenting the type of discourse situation where Bill,the  fa ther  of  A l f red ,  i s  speak ing  and where  there  i s  as ing le  dog ,  Jack ie ,  p resent .
The mean ing  of(2) The dog belongs to my sonis a relation (or ,-tlti-valued function) R betweenvarious types  of discourse situations a~d other types  ofsituations.
Appl ied to  the d above R will have variousvalues R(d) including s" given below, but not includingthe  s f rom above:s ' (be long ,  Jack ie ,  A l f red)  m 1s'(tall, Al f red)  = i .Thus if Bill were to use  this sentence in a situation oftype d, and if s, not s', represents the t rue  state ofaffairs, then what Bill said would be false.
Lf s"represents the true state of  affairs, then what he saidwould  be t rue .Expressions of a language heve a fixed llngulstlcmeanlng, Indepe-~enC of the discourse situation.
Thesame sentence (2) can be used in different types ofdiscourse situations to express different propositions.Thus, we can treat the  linguistic meaning of anexpression as a function from discourse si~uatlon typesto  other  complexes  o f  ob jec ts  a -a  proper t ies .Application of thlS function to a partioular discoursesituation type we call the interpretation of theexpression.
In particular, the interpretation of asentence llke (2) in a discourse s i tuat ion  type  llke diS a set of various situation types, including s* shove,but not including s. This set of types is called thepropos i t ion  expressed  by (2 ) .Various syntactic categories of  natural language willhave var ious  sor ts  of i n terpretat ions .
Verb phrases ,e .g .
,  wi l l  be i n terpreted  by re la t ions  between ob jectsand  s i tuat ion  types .
Def in i te  descr ip t ions  will hei n terpreted  as  funct ions  f rom s i tuat ion  types  toi nd iv idua ls .
The d i f fe rence  between re ferent ia l  anda t t r ibut ive  uses  o f  de f in i te  descr ip t ions  w i l lcor respond to  d i f fe rent  ways o f  us ing  such  a funct ion ,evaluation at s particular accessible s i tuat ion ,  or toconstrain other  types within i t s  domain.i i04.
A FRAGMENT OF ENGLISH INVOLVING DEFINITE ANDINDEFINITE DESCRIPTIONSAt my talk I will illustrate the ideas discussed aboveby presenting a grammar and formal semantics for afragment of English that embodies definite an dindefinite descriptions, restrictive and nonrestrictiverelative clauses, and indexlcals llke "I", "you", "this"and "that".
The aim is to have a semantic account thatdoes not go through any sort of flrst-order "logicalform", but operates off of the syntactic rules ofEnglish.
The fragment incorporates both referential andattributive uses of descriptions.The basic idea is that descriptions are interpreted asfunctions from situation types to individuals,restrictive relative clauses are i n te rpreted  asfunctions from situation types to sub-types, and theinterpretation of the whole is to be the composition ofthe functions i n te rpret ing  the parts.
Thus, theinterpretations of "the", "dog", and "that talks" aregiven by the following three functions, respectively:f (X )  = the unique element of X if thereis one,- undef ined,  o therw ise .g(s )  - the set  of a such that  s (dos ,  a ) - Ih(s )  - the " res t r i c t ion '  of s to the set  ofa such that  s ( ta lk ,a ) - l .The in terpreta t ion  of " the dog that  ta lks"  i s  Jus t  thecomposi t ion of these three funct ions .From a log ica l  po int  of view, th i s  i s  qu i te  in teres t ing .In f i r s t -o rder  log ic ,  the meaning of "the dog thatta lks '  has to be bu i l t  up from the meanings of ' the '  and'dog that  ta lks ' ,  not from the meanings of "the dog* and'that talks'.
However, in situation semantics, sincecomposition of functions i s  associative, we can combinethe meanings of these expressions either way: f.(g.h) -(f.g).h.
Thus, our semantic analysis is compatible withboth of the syntactic structures argued for in thelinguistic literature, the Det-Nom analysis and the NP-Ranalysis.
One point that comes up in SituationSemantics that might interest people st this meeting Isthe reinterpretaclon of composltlonality that it forceson one, more of a top-down than a bottom-upcomposltionallty.
This makes it much morecomputatlonally tractible, since it allows us to workwith much smaller amount of information.
Unfortunately,a full discussion of this point is beyond the scope ofsuch a small paper.Another important point not discussed is the constraintplaced by the requirement of persistence discussed insection 2.
I t  forces us to introduce space-timelocations for the analysis of attrlbutive uses ofdefinlte descriptions, locations that are also neededfor the semantics of tense, aspect and noun phrases like"every man', "neither dog', and the Ilk,.5.
CONCLUSIONThe main point of this paper has been to alert thereaders  to a perspect ive  in  the model theory of natura llanguage which they might well find interesting anduseful.
Indeed, they may well find that it is one thatthey have in many ways adopted already for otherreasons .REFERENCESI .
J .L .
Aust in ,  "Truth",  Ph i losoph ica l  Papers ,  Oxford,1961, 117-134.2.
J. Barvise, "Scenes and other s i tuat ions" ,  J.  o fPhi losophy,  to appear,  1981.3.
J .
Barwise end J .
Perry ,  "Semantic innocence anduncoap rom/s t~,  s i tuat ions" ,  Midwest Studies inPhilosophy V~I, to appear 1981.4.
J .
Barvise and J .
Per ry ,  S i tuat ion  Se.~,ntics: AMathematical  Theory o f  L in6u is t i c  Meaning, book inp reparat ion .5.
J .
Friedman and V.S.
Warren, "A pars ln8 ,us,hod forHontague Grammars," IAnsulstlcs and Phi losophy,2 (1978), 347-372.6.
S.C. Kleene, "Recurs lve  funct iona ls  and quant l f le rsof f in i te  type revisited I " ,  Genera l i zed  gecurs lonTheory 1__I, North Holland, 1978, 185-222; and par tI I  in  The Kleene S~nposium, North Holland, 1980, 1-31.7.
J .
McCarthy, "Programs with common sense" .
SemanticInforwa.
t lon  P rocess ing ,  (Minsky, ed . )
,  M. I .T .
,1968, 403-418.8.
R. Moo,ague, "Universal Grammar", Theorla, 36(1970), 373-398.9.
Y.N.
Moschovakls, "On the basic notions in thetheory of induction", Logic, Foundations ofMethe,aatice and Co~utab l l i t~"  Theory, (Butts  andHint ikka,  ed),  Reid, l ,  1976, 207-236.I0.
J .
Perry ,  "Percept ion ,  ac t ion  and the s t ruc ture  ofbe l lev lng" ,  to  appear .I I .
R. P la tek ,  "Foundations of Recursloo Theory", Ph.D.Thes is ,  Stanford Un ivers i ty ,  1963.111
