PERFORMANCE COMPARISON OF COMPONENT ALGORITHMSFOR THE PHONEMICIZATION OF ORTHOGRAPHYJared Bernstein Larry NesslyTelesensory Speech Systems University of North CarolinaPalo Alto, CA 94304 Chapel Hi l l ,  NC 27514A system for converting English textinto synthetic speech can be divided into twoprocesses that operate in series:I) a text-to-phoneme converter, and2) a phonemic-input speech synthesizer.The conversion of orthographic text into aphonemic form may itself comprise severalprocesses in  series, for instance, formattingtext  to  expand abbrev ia t ions  andnon-a lphabet ic  express ions ,  pars ing  and wordc lass  determinat ion ,  segmental  phonemic izat ionof words, word and clause level stressassignment, word internal and word boundaryallophonic adjustments, and duration andfundamental frequency settings forphonological units.Comparing the accuracy of differentalgorithms for text-to-phoneme conversion isoften difficult because authors measure andreport system performance in incommensurableways.
Furthermore, comparison of the outputspeech from two complete systems may notalways provide a good test of the performanceof the corresponding component algorithms inthe two systems, because radical performancedifferences in other components can obscuresmall differences in the components ofinterest.
The only reported direct comparisonof two complete text-to-speech systems (MITALKand TSI's TTS-X) was conducted by Bernstelnand P i son l  (1980) .
This paper repor ts  onestudy that  compared two algorithms forautomatic segmental phonemlcization of words,and a second study that compared twoalgorithms for automatic assignment of lexicalstress.Only three systems for text-to-phonemeconversion have been reported in detail:McIlroy's (197~) Votrax driver, Hunnicutt,s(1976) rules for the MITALK system, and theNRL rules developed by Elovitz and associates(1976).
Liberman (1979), Hertz (1981), andHunnicutt (1980) have described more recentsystems, but have not published rule sets.One fairly standard approach toautomatic phonemiczation of words has thefollowing component parts:input: "whoever"ILEXICONAFFIXSTRIPPERI LETTERTO SOUNDILEXICALSTRESSlALLOPHONICSoutput: /huw~v3/~"Several research systems are of this generaldesign, including Allen's MITALK system, theTTS-X prototype at Telesensory Systems, andLlberman,s proper name phonemic izer .The most popular text-to-phonemedesi@n is the NRL approach, which has only twocomponents, of which only the first ispresented in detail and evaluated by Elovitz.The original NRL system is:i nput :  "word"LETTERTO SOUNDi nc lud ing  somewhole morphemesILEXICALSTRESSoutput: lw3d/d19The very  great  advantage  o f  the  MRLapproach, i s  the  un i f ied  t reatment  o f le t te rsequences ,  a f f i xes ,  and whole  words .
There i sexact ly  one pass th rough a word ,  le f t  toright, in which the maximum string startingwith the leftmost unphonemicized character ismatched.
These strings are sometimes wholewords, sometimes affixes, and sometimesconsonant or vowel sequences or word fragmentslike "BUIL".
The main constraint of thesystem is its greatest attraction: the unityand simplicity of the code that scans the wordand accesses a single table of letter strings.In contrast to this, the MITALK system, forinstance, has one module and associated tablestructure for lexlcal decomposition of wholewords, another module for stripping commonaffixes, and a third module  for translatingconsonant and vowel sequences that remain inthe pseudo-root of the word.STUDY ONEStudy One reports a comparison of  tworoutines for translating orthographic lettersi n to  segmenta l  phonemes: Hunnicutt@TSI andNRL@DEC.Hunnicutt@TSI is the affix stripperand letter to sound rules as dlacribed in AJCLMicrofiche 57, and imp lemented  in  MACRO-11 inTelesensory Systems' TTS-X prototypetext-to-speech system.
Hunnlcutt's system wasmodified only slightly i n  translation, andabout 20 rules were added.
The system startsfrom the right end of the word and identifiesas many suffixes as it can from a table ofabout  140 su f f i xes ,  p roceed ing  toward  thebeg inn ing  o f  the  word unt i l  e i ther  theremainder  (pseudo- root )  o f  the  word has novowe l  or  fewer  than  three  le t te rs ,  o r  no moresu f f i xes  can be matched.
Next ,  a s imi la rp roceedure  works f rom the  beg inn ing  o f  theword, matching as many prefixes as it can from?
a tab le  of  about  40 pre f ixes .
F ina l ly ,  thepseudo- root  o f  the  word i s  scanned le f t  toright twice, once translating the consonants ,and next translating the vowels.NRL@DEC is a system implemented byMart in  Minnow at  D ig i ta l  Equtptment  Corp.  Thewhole system is somewhat more elaborate thatthe original NRL system, but the letter tosound module and its mode of  operat ion  arebasically as described by Elovitz et ala,with 20 or 30 rules added.
The NRL rulesi nc lude  about  60 very  common who le  words ,  aswe l l  as about  25 ru les  that  hand le  var iousenv i ronments  fo r  th ree  pre f ixes  and f i f teensuffixes.A set of 865 words was processed bothby the Hunnlcutt@TSI affix stripper and letterto sound rules, and by the NRL@DEC letter tosound rules including the af f ix  rules and theword fragments.
The 865 words comprisedapproximately every fiftieth word of  the BrownCorpus (Kucera  & F ranc is ,  1967) in  f requencyorder ,  s ta r t ing  f rom about  the  400th  mostfrequent word: "position."
The lexicon of theTSI system was d i sab led ,  and none o f  the  who lewords in  the NRL rules was in  the set of 865.Since the output from both subsystemswas tapped before stress assignment, vowelreduct ion ,  and any a l lophon ics  were per fo rmed,the  c r i te r ion  of  cor rec tness  was "does th i sphonemlc iza t ion  represent  any acceptab lepronunciation of  the spelled word, assumingone can assign stress correctly and thenreduce vowels ~ppropriately."
Thus, aphonemlcization consistent wlth any possibleword class fo r  that  spelling, or  any 'regular'regional pronunciation was to be accepted.Three judges (two phonetlcians and aphono log is t )  were g iven  pr in ted  cop ies  o f  thetwo resu l t ing  phonemic t ranscr ip t ions ;  bothwere i n  fairly t ransparent  b road  phonemicform.
The judges chose among three possibleresponses  to  each word:  1 = correct; .5  =close or questionable; and 0 = wrong.
Crossjudge consistency can be seen from the bimodaldistribution of summed scores in Figure I.Fla I E tFll4~C,~ fm,~, .
?
o, .?
,LJm7b b7o s - t .6OI1370 .~F- t. t.5" ~t --~..Wz.,/?I!320Another, more diagnostic way to viewthe results is to present the number of wordsthat fall into each cell of a 2X2 grid formedby the Hunnlcutt@TSl ra t ing  vs. the NRL@DECrating, as shown in Figure 2.
Figure 2 omitsthe 26 words that had a summed score of 1.5for either of the two letter to sound systems.FIGURE 2<1.5Hunnicutt@TSI>1.5HRL@DEC<1.5 >1.5\ [a  \ ]b127 I 90l69 ) 553If the rule sets were equivalent, thegrid would have zeroes in cells b and c. Ifone rule set were a super-set of the other,you would get a zero in cell b or cell c, butnot both.
Most of the 553 words in cell d areregular, or else are common exceptions (like"built").
Most of the 127 words in cell a areobviously exceptional (e.g.
"minute, honor,one, two").Examination of the 159 wordsdistributed between cells b and c yields thepayoff.
Of the 69 words that Hunnicutt@TSIgot right and NRL@DEC missed, nearly half arecorrect by virtue of the extensive affixstripping in Hunnicutt's algorithm.
Amongthese 69 words in cell c are "mobile, naval,wallace, likened, coworkers, & reenacted.
"Of the 90 words that NRL@DEC got rightand Hunnicutt@TSl got wrong, only about 15 aredefinitely due to NRL's word fragment rules.Six of the 90 words are in cell d just becauseNRL does not Strip suffixes the way thatHunnicutt's rules do.
These six words are"november, visited, preferably, presidency,september, & oven.
"In general, both algorithms get about25% wrong on this lexically flat sample of 865word types.
About 15~ of the words areincorectly phonemicized by both subsystems.This might suggest that 15~ wrong may be astate of the art performance level forsegmental phonemicization of word types bysets of 400 rules.STUDY TWOStudy Two compared the performance oftwo algorithms for assignment of lexicalstress to words.
Both of the algorithms werecoded in MACRO-It and ran in differentversions of TSl's TTS-X prototypetext-to-speech system.
The first algorithm isHunnlcutt's lexical stresser, which isdescribed in detail in AjCL Microfiche 57.Hunnicutt's algorithm is an adaptation ofHalle's cyclic stress rules for English.
Theadaptations include adjustments for the lessspecified input to the rules (e.g.
the part ofspeech of the root is unknown), and the numberof stress levels specified in the output isreduced, presumably because the Klattsynthesizer it was designed to drive only usedtwo stress levels.
Hunnicutt also added stressrules that depended on the occurance ofcertain classes of suffixes.
Hunnicutt 's rulesrequire several pointers and a suffix table,they sometimes pass through a word severaltimes in the manner of Chomsky & Halle's(1968) rules, and they occupy about 3K bytesof executable code in their TSI version.The second algorithm is a simplif iedversion of a stress rule proposed in Hill &Nessly (1973).
We will refer to this rule asNessly's default, since it is the default caseof Nessly's full stress algorithm.
Nessly'sdefault stress is quite similar to Latinstress and to the "first approximation" stressrule discussed twoard the beginning of Chomsky& Halle's chapter three (1968, pp.69-77).
Themain differences between Nessly's default ruleand Chomsky & Halle's "first approximation"are:(I) No word class information is usedin Nessly's default, so verbs are stressed asnouns.and (2) What constitutes a "strongcluster" (which contains a tense vowel or aclosed syllable end) is different.
Nessly'sdefault is indifferent to vowel length ortensity.Nessly's default rule can be outl ined asfollows:If(number of syllables : I)stress it.if(number of syllables : 2)stress left syllable.elseskip the last syllable.?
i f(next-to-last is closed)stress it.elsestress third from last.
(place alternating 2nd stresseson syllables to the left.
)The MACRO-It version of this rule requiresabout 150 bytes of executable code, andaccepts one pointer to the last vowel in theword.
It passes through the word once, rightto left, and it does very well assigningcorrect stresses (in caps) to "LUminant" vs."maLIGnant," for example.For testing the stress algorithms, asample of 430 words was selected.
These 430words were all the items of five or morecharacters that had frequencies of 40 ppmthrough 34 ppm (inclusive) in the Browncorpus.
The segmental phonemicization was doneby Hunnicutt's rules in TSI's TTS-X prototype.The automatical ly produced segmentalphonemicizations that the stress algorithmsoperated on were rejected only if they did nothave the correct number of syllables.Thirteen of the 430 words were phonemicizedwith the wrong number of syllables.
Another54, or 13~, of the 430 were one syllablewords, which were allways assigned correct21stress.
Stress assignments were judged by thefirst author.
The results on the remaining417 words of the sample were:Correct WrongHunn icut t /Ha l le  308 109Nessly default 303 114So, on these words, the two algorithms performat about the same level of accuracy, which isabout 252 wrong on a lexlcal sample.DISCUSSIONIn both studies, very simplealgorithms performed about as well asalgorithms of vastly greater complexity.
Inthe case of the letter-to-sound algorithms(Hunnlcutt@TSI and MRL@DEC), the difference incomplexity is primarily in the procedure forchecklnK the rules against the word.Hunnicutt's rules themselves are only a littlemore complicated than the NRL rules.Presumably, with some modification, most ofHunnicutt's rules could be modified to runwithin a one-pass NRL procedure.The stress algorithms tested in StudyTwo present  a very  great  cont ras t  in  bothnumber o f  ru les  and procedure  fo r  ru leapplication.
If Nessly's default rule is llkea simplified version of Chomsky & Halle's" f i r s t  approx imat ion"  s t ress  ru le ,  and l \ [Hunnlcutt's algorithm is fairly close toChomsky & Halle's full lexical stress rules(w i th  noun- root  assumed),  then our  datasuggest  that  the  ep icyc l i c  accret ion  thatproduced Chomsky & Ha l le ' s  fu l l  se t  o f  s t ressrules from their "first approximation" hasgained a lmost  noth ing  in  lex ica l  coverage .We have reported performance in termsof percent wrong on samples of word types fromthe Brown corpus.
It seems that anappropr ia te  measure of performance thatre f lec ts  what peop le  fee l  when they  hear  atext-to-speech system is AVERAGE WORDS BETWEENERRORS (AWBE).
We would like to  end this paperby g iv ing  AWBE fo r  a s imple  text - to -phonemesystem with a 25~ error rate in  bothletter-to-sound conversion and lexlcaistressing, and a lexicon with 1500 words.I f  the  lex icon  i s  in  para l le l  w i th  thele t te r  to  sound and s t ress  ru les ,  and theper formance o f  the le t te r  to  sound ru les  andthe s t ress  ru les  are independant ,  an overa l le r ro r  ra te  o f  about 7% can be expected .
Th iswould t rans la te  in to  an AWBE o f  13.3 .REFERENCESJ .Bernste in  & D.P i son i  (1980) "Un l imi tedtext - to -speech  system: Descr ip t ion  andeva luat ion  o f  a mic roprocessor  based dev ice , "IEEE ICASSP-80 Proceedings.N.Chomsky & M.Halle (1968) THE SOUND PATTERNOF ENGLISH, Harper-Row, New York.H?Elovltz, R.Johnson, A.McHuKh, & J.Shore(1976) "Letter-to-sound rules for automatict rans la t ion  o f  Eng l i sh  text  to  phonet ics , "IEEE Trans .
on Acoust i cs ,  Speech, and S igna lP rocess ing ,  vo l .
ASSP-24, no.
6.S .Her tz  (1981) "SRS le t te r  to  sound ru les , "IEEE ICASSP-80 Proceed ings .S .Hunn icut t  (1976) "Phono log ica l  ru les  fo r  atext - to -speech  system" AJCL M ic ro f i che  57.$ .Hunn icut t  (1980) "Grapheme to  phoneme ru les :a rev iew"  KTH SLT-QPSR 2 -3 /1980,  S tockho lm.H.Kucera & W.Franc ls  (1967) COMPUTATIONALANALYSIS OF PRESENT DAY AMERICAN ENGLISH,Brown U.
Press ,  P rov idence .M.L lberman (1979) "Text - to -speech  convers ion"by ru le  and a pract i ca l  app l i ca t ion , "P roceed ings  o f  the  N in th  In ternat iona lCongress o f  Phonet ic  Sc iences ,  Copenhagen.M.Mc I l roy  (197~) "Synthet ic  Eng l i sh  speech byru le , "  Be l l  Te lephone Laborator ies  Memo.K .H l l l  & L .Ness ly  (1973) "Rev iew o f  The SoundPat ten  o f  Eng l i sh , "  LINGUISTICS 106: 57-101.ACKNOWLEDGEMENTSThe authors  grate fu l ly  acknowlege va luab lehe lp  from Mar t in  Minow, Peter  MaKEs,Margaret  Kahn, and ou l ie  Lov in=.22
