ON THE LINGUISTIC CHARACTER OF NON-STANDARD INPUTAnthony S. Kroch and Donald HindleDepartment of LinguisticsUniversity of PennsylvaniaPhiladelphia, PA 19104 USAABSTRACTIf natural language understanding systems areever to cope with the full range of Englishlanguage forms, their designers will have toincorporate a number of features of the spokenvernacular language.
This communication discussessuch features as non-standard grammatical rules,hesitations and false starts due toself-correction, systematic errors due tomismatches between the grammar and sentencegenerator, and uncorrected true errors.There are many ways in which the input to anatural language system can be non-standard withoutbeing uninterpretable ~ Most obviously, such inputcan be the well-formed output of a grammar otherthan the standard language grammar with which theinterpreter is likely to be equipped.
Thisdifference of grammar is presumably what we noticein language that we call "non-standard" in everydaylife.
Obviously, at least from the perspective ofa linguist, it is wrong to think of this differenceas being due to errors made by the non-standardlanguage user; it is simply a dialect difference.Secondly, the non-standard input can containhesitations and self-correctlons which make thestring uninterpretable unless some parts of it areedited out.
This is the normal state of affairs inspoken language so that any system designed tounderstand spoken communication, even at arudimentary level must be able to edit its inputas well as interpret it.
Thirdly, the input may beungrammatical even by the rules of the grammar ofthe speaker but be the expected output of thespeaker's sentence generating device.
This casehas not been much discussed, but it is importantbecause in certain environments speakers (and tosome extent unskilled writers) regularly produceungrammmatical output in preference togrammatically unimpeachable alternatives.
Finally,the input t~at the system receives may simplycontain uncorrected errors.
How important thislast source of non-standard input would be in afunctioning system is hard to judge and would* The discussion in this paper is based anon-going study of the syntactic differences betweenwritten and of spoken language funded by theNational Institute of Education under grantsG78-0169 and G80-0163.depend on the environment of use.
Uncorrectederrors are, in our experience, reasonably rare influent speech but they are more common in unskilledwriting.
These errors may be typographical, a casewe shall ignore in this discussion, or they may begrammatical.
Of most interest to us are the caseswhere the error is due to a language userattempting to use a standard language constructionthat he/she does not natively command.In the course of this brief communication weshall discuss each of the above cases withexamples, drawing on work we have done describingthe differences between the syntax of vernacularspeech and of standard writing (Kroch and Nindle,1981).
Our work indicates that these differencesare sizable enough to cause problems for theacquisition of writing as a skill, and they mayarise'as well when natural language understandingsystems come to be used by a wider public.
Whetherproblems will indeed arise is, of course, hard tosay as it depends on so many factors.
The mostimportant of these is whether natural languagesystems are ever used with oral, as well astyped-in, language.
We do not know whether thefeatures of speech that we will be outlining willalso show up in "keyboard" language; for itsspecial characteristics have been little studiedfrom a linguistic point of view (for a recentattempt see Thompson 1980).
They will certainlyoccur more sporadically and at a lower incidencethan they do in speech; and there may be newfeatures of "keyboard" language that are notpredictable from other language modes.
We shallhave little to say about how the problem ofnon-standard input can be best handled in a workingsystem; for solving that problem will require moreresearch.
If we can give researchers working onnatural language systems a clearer idea of whattheir devices are likely to have to cope with in anenvironment of widespread public use, our remarkswill have achieved their purpose.Informal.
generally spoken, English exists ina number of regional, class and ethnic varieties,each with its own grammatical peculiarities.Fortunately, the syntax of these dialects issomewhat less varied than the phonology so that wemay reasonably approximate the situation byspeaking of a general "non-standard vernacular(NV)", which contrasts in numerous ways withstandard written English (SWE).
Some of thedifferences between the two dialects can lead toproblems for parsing and interpretation.
Thus,161subject-verb agreement, which is categorical inSWE, is variable in NV.
In fact, in someenvironments subject-verb agreement is rarelyindicated in NV, the most notable being sentenceswith dummy there subjects.
Thus, the first of thesentences in (i) is the more likely in NV while, ofcourse, only the second can occur in SWE:(I) a.
There was two girls on the sofa.b.
There were two girls on the sofa.Since singular number is the unmarked alternative,it occurs with both singular and plural subjects;hence only plural marking on a verb can be  treatedas a clear signal of number in NV.
This couldeasily prove a problem for parsers that use numbermarking to help find subject-verb pairs.
Afurther, perhaps more difficult, problem would beposed by another feature of NV, the deletion ofrelative clause ?omplementizers on subjectrelatives.
SWE does not allow sentences like thosein (2); but they are the most likely form in manyvarieties of NV and occur quite freely in thespeech of people whose speech is otherwisestandard:(2) a.
Anybody says it is a liar.b.
There was a car used to drive byhere.Here a parser that assumes that the first tensedverb following an NP that agrees with it is themain verb, will be misled.
There are severeconstraints on the environments in which subjectrelatives can appear without a complementizer,apparently to prevent hearers from "garden-pathing"on this construction, but these restrictions arenot statable in a purely structural way.
A finalexample of a NV construction which differs fromwhat SWE allows is the use of i t  for expletivethere, as in (3):- - (3 )  It was somebody standing on the corner,This construction is categorical in black English,but it occurs with considerable frequency in thespeech of whites as well, at least in Philadelphia,the only location on which we have data.
This lastexample poses no problems in principle for anatural language system; it is simply a grammaticalfact of NV that has to be incorporated into thegrammar implemented by the natural languageunderstanding system.
There are many features likethis, each trivial in itself but nonetheless aproductive feature of the language.Hesitations and false starts are a consistentfeature of spoken language and any interpreter that-cannot handle them will fail instantly.
In onecount we found that 52% of the sentences in a 90minute conversational interview contained at leastone instance (Hindle, i981b).
Fortunately, thedeformation of grammaticality caused byself-correction induced disfluency is quite limitedand predictable (Labov, 1966).
With a small set ofediting rules, therefore, we have been able tonormalize more than 95% of such disfluencies inpreprocessing texts for input to a parser forspoken language that we have been constructing(Hindle, 1981b).
These rules are based on the factthat false starts in speech are phoneticallysignaled, often by truncation of the finalsyllable.
Marking the truncation and otherphonetic editing signals in our transcripts, wefind that a simple procedure which removes theminimum number of words necessary to create aparsable sequence eliminates most ill-formedness.The spoken language contains as a normal partof its syntactic repertoire constructions likethose illustrated below:(4) The problem is is that nobodyunderstands me.
(5) That's the only thing he does is fight.
(6) John was the only guest who we weren'tsure whether he would come.
(7) Didn't have to worry about us.These are constructions that it is difficult toaccomodate in a linguistically motivated syntax forobvious reasons.
Sentence (4) has two tensedverbs; (5), which has been called a "portmanteauconstruction", has a constituent belongingsimultaneously to two different sentences; (6) hasa wh- movement construction with no trace (see thediscussion in Kroch, 1981); and (7) violates theabsolute grammatical requirement that Englishsentences have surface subjects.
We do not knowwhy these forms occur so regularly in speech, butwe do know that they are extremely common.
Thereasons undoubtedly vary from construction toconstruction.
Thus, (5) has the effect of removinga heavy NP from surface subject position whilepreserving its semantic role as subject.
Since weknow that heavy NPs in subject position are greatlydisfavored in speech (Kroch and Hindle, 1981), theportmanteau construction is almost certainlyperforming a useful function in simplifyingsyntactic processing or the presentation ofinformation.
Similarly, relative clauses withresumptlve pronouns, like the one in (6), seem toreflect limitations on the sentence planningmechanism used in speech.
If a relative clause isbegun without computing its complete syntacticanalysis, as a procedure like the one in MacDonald162(1980) suggests, then a resumptlve pronoun might beused to fill a gap that turned out to occur in anon-deletable position.
This account explains whyresumptlve pronouns do not occur in writing.
Theyare ungrammatical and the real-tlme constraints onsentence planning that cause speech to be producedon the basis of limited look-ahead are absent.Subject deletion, illustrated in (7), is clearly acase of ellipsis induced in speech for reasons ofeconomy llke contraction and clltlcizatlon.However, English grammar does not allow subjectlesstensed clauses.
In fact, it is this prohibitionthat explains the existence of expletive it inEnglish, a feature completely absent from lang~geswith subJectless sentences.
Of course, subjectdeletion in speech is highly constrained and itsoccurrence can be accommodated in a parser withoutcompletely rewriting the grammar of English, and wehave done so.
The point here, as with all theseexamples, is that close study of the syntax ofspeech repays the effort with improvements incoverage.The final sort of non-standard input that wewill mention is the uncorrected true error.
In ouranalysis of 40 or more hours of spoken interviewmaterial we have found true errors to be rare.They generally occur when people express complexideas that they have not talked about before andthey involve changing direction in the middle of asentence.
An example of this sort of mistake isgiven in (8), where the object of a prepositionalphrase turns into the subject of a followingclause:(8) When I was able to understand theexplanation of the moves of thechessmen started to make sense tome, he became interested.Large parts of sentences with errors llke this areparsable, but the whole may not make sense.Clearly, a natural language system should be ableto make whatever sense can be made out of suchstrings even if it cannot construct an overallstructure for them.
Having done as well as it can,the system must then rely on context, just as ahuman interlocutor would.
Unlike vernacularspeech, the writing of unskilled writers quitecommonly displays errors.
One case, which we havestudied in detail is that of errors in relativeclauses with "pied-plped" prepositional phrases.We often find clauses like the ones in (9), wherethe wrong preposition (usually in) appears at thebeginning of the clause.
(9) a. methods in which to communicate withother peopleb.
rules in which people can directtheir effortsSince pied-plped relatives are non-existent in NV,the simplest explanation for such examples is thatthey are errors due to imperfect learning of thestandard language rule.
More precisely, instead ofmoving a wh- prepositional phrase to thecomplementlzer position in the relative clause,unskilled writers may analyze the phrase in whichas a general oblique relativizer equivalent towhere, the form most commonly used in this functionin informal speech.In summary, ordinary linguistic usage exhibitsnumerous deviations from the standard writtenlanguage.
The sources of these deviations arediverse and they are of varying significance fornatural language processing.
It is safe to say,however, that an accurate assessment of theirnature, frequency and effect on interpretability isa necessary prerequisite to the development oftruly robust systems.REFERENCESHindle, Donald.
"Near-sentences in spokenEnglish."
Paper presented at NWAVE X, 1981a.Hindle, Donald.
"The syntax of self-correctlon.
"Paper presented at the Linguistic Society ofAmerica annual meeting, 1981b.Kroch, Anthony.
"On the role of resumptivepronouns in amnestying island constraintviolations."
in CLS #17, 1981.Kroch, Anthony and Donald Hindle.
~ quantitativestud Z o f  the syntax of  speech and writin$.Final report to the National Institute ofEducation on grant #78-0169, 1981.Labor, William.
"On the grammatlcallty ofeveryday speech."
unpublished manuscript,1966.MacDonald, David "Natural language production asa process of decision-making underconstraint."
draft of an MIT ArtificalIntelligence Lab technical report, 1980,Thompson, Bozena H. "A linguistic analysis ofnatural language communication withcomputers."
in Proceedings o_f the eishthinternational conference on computationalllnsulstics.
Tokyo, 1980.163
