2002: ANOTHER SCOREDavid G. HaysMetagram25 Nagle Avenue, Apartment 3-GNew York, NY 10040Twenty years is a long time to spend inprison, but it is a short time in intellectualhistory.
In the few years Just prior to thefoundation of this Association, we had come fromremarkably complex but nevertheless rathersuperficial analysis of text as strings ofcharacters or, perhaps, lexlcal units to programsfor parsing that operated on complex grammaticalsymbols but according to rather simple generalprinciples; the programs could be independent ofthe language.
And at the moment of foundation, wehad--In the words of D. R. Swanson--run up againstthe stone wall of semantics.
No one at the timecould say whether it was the wall of a prison yardor another step in the old intellectual pyramid.On my reading, the record is unmistakable.The best work of the past twenty years has been ona higher level than that of 1962.
Those wholearned about syntactic, semantic, and cognitivestructures as students must feel quite scornful ofthe timidity with which we introduced these newtopics to a world that doubted their propriety.But then some were not so timid.
After all, thenew ideas are in the curriculum.Meanwhile, the commercial significance ofstrings of characters has come to everyone'sattention.
So-called word processors are widelyused, and the market grows.
Commercialization ofour most rudimentary techniques has taken twentyyears.
We may wonder how long it will take to puton the market systems with our more recent, moreadvanced techniques, but we can be sure that themarket will eventually buy them.We can also be sure of encountering newbarriers.
Our most important gain in the pasttwenty years is, as I see it, the assurance thatwhatever barrier we meet can be climbed.
This isno case of "Climb one, climb them all."
Sucharrogance is folly.
Language is closelyassociated with thought.
Knowledge of them both,and of their association, is Just what carried usover the barriers that were insurmountable twentyyea~s ago.
The bazrlers we meet are inherent inthe systems of thought that we use.
We knowenough about thought to announce that itscharacteristic and dlsczlminatlng feature is thecapacity to generate new and more powerful systemsof its own kind.
A railroad does not become anelevator when it reaches a cliff, but thought doesJust that.No one anticipated in 1962 that the study oflanguage or the investigation of "thinkingmachines" would lead in twenty yea~s to anunderstanding of how intellectual bazzlers convertthemselves into scaffolding for the erection ofnew theoretical systems, and no great socialinstitution--not the university, and certainly notgovernment--has yet recognized the revolutionarythrust of our small enterprise.
The worldunderstands, vaguely, that great change is takingplace, but who understands that the pace of changewill never slow down?Intellectual progress consists in theroutinlzatlon of the work of intuitive genius.Before the Renaissance in Europe, some persons byinsight could establish the sum of two numbers orthe truth of some fact about nature.
Since theRenaissance we take these accomplishments so muchfor granted that we scarcely understand the systemof thought in which they were problematic.
Atmost twenty-flve years ago, the determination ofthe surface structure of a sentence wasproblematic.
By now we understand rather clearlyhow phonological, syntactic, semantic, andcognitive considerations interact in parsing.We, as a global culture, have taken a stepcomparable to the Renaissance, and we, as themembers of an Association, have had a significantrole.
Advances in linguistics, in cognitivescience, in the art of computation, and inartificial intelligence have contributed to ourwork.
Some would say that we are merely users oftheir results.
I think that we have supplied acrucial element, and I understand our name--computational linguistics--to designate ourspecial conceptualization.Until we went to work, the standardconceptualization of analysis in western thoughtwas translation into a universal scheme.
Logic,mathematics, and computation assumed that allargument would be by manipulation of certainforms.
The logician, mathematician, orcomputatlonist was expert in these forms andmanipulations.
Given any problem domain, someonewould translate its material into the standardform.
After manipulations, someone wouldtranslate the results back.Computational linguistics has the idea thatcomputation can be designed on the pattern oflinguistic theory.
In this respect, it seems tome, there is a sharp distinction betweencomputational linguistics and natural languageprocessing.
The latter seems to belong toartificial intelligence, and artificialintelligence seems to be the inheritor of thestandard assumptions.
I think that computationallinguistics has the advantage.Language and thought are fantasticallycomplex, and when their mechanisms are translatedinto the old universal forms the representations95are equally complex.
Yet, from the rightperspective, we have seen that language andthought have simple structures of their own.
Ifwe translate linguistic mechanisms intocomputational terms, the first step is hard, butthe zest is comparatively easy.The making of software is still, as it hasbeen from the beginning, a grave problem.
Forthis problem I see only one remedy.
Computationalmechanisms must be translated into the terms ofthe user for whom the rest will be easy.
But theuser is not unique; the class of users isheterogeneous.
Hence computational mechanismsmust be translated into many different kinds ofterms, and so far this translation seems verydifficult.
"Metagramming" is my name for anapproach to the simplification of the hard part.For thousands or tens of thousands of yearshumanity has engaged in the translation oflinguistic mechanisms into the terms of differentperspectives on the world.
Thus, cultures andlanguages vary in profound ways.
And cultures andlanguages vary together.
Until now no one hasunderstood this process.
It went on In billionsof brains, and it was effective.
Now we try tounderstand it and to extend it from the linguisticlevel to the computational.The curious formula that we offer for theconversion of intellectual barriers intoscaffolding is Just this: Formulate a descriptionof the barrier.
Translate the mechanisms ofthought or of computation into the terms of thedescription.
Execute the new mechanisms.
As Isee the matter, such work was done by intuitivegenius until recently, but we ale routinizing it.This formula generalizes on a central notion ofcomputational linguistics and seems to me ourfirst contribution to universal knowledge.The formula contains an inexplicit element.What are the terms of the description to be?
Inwhat language does one formulate the description?I see no plain answer to this question.
In fact,I am willing to take it as identifying, but not asdescribing, the next barrier.Another way to put the matter is to say thatthe proper description of the barrier is ametaphor of its elimination.
Metaphor is atpresent in the same limelight that illuminatedsemantics twenty years ago.
We have not yet foundthe correct angle to illuminate the problem ofmetaphor, the proper language for description ofthe problem.Again, I suggest that metaphors serve us indiscussions of abstract matters.
Surmounting anintellectual barrier is stepping to a higher levelof abstraction or, in a somewhat novel technicalsense, moving to a metalevel.And finally I point out our inab i l i ty  tocharacterize the mutual influence of any complexwhole and its myriad parts.
If we consider a p layor novel, a religion, a culture, or a science andask how the unique quality of the whole emergesfrom the mass of elements, we have little ornothing of a scientific nature to say.
And if weask how to construct a system of this kind, how todesign a building or a programming language, howto enhance a culture or educate a child, we findourselves with traditions and intuitions butwithout explicit theories.So I see a goal worth scoring, and I imaginethe possibility that computational linguistics canmove toward it.
Deep study of computationinculcates powerful methods of thought, and deepstudy of language supplies the right objects ofthought.
Computational linguistics contains whatI reckon to be needed by those who would wrestlewith abstraction, metaphor, and metasystems.Mankind is a complex whole, and itsindividual human parts are myriad.
The computerin every home will alter the mutual influence ofperson and population.
For better or for worse,no one can yet say.
Moral issues arise.Technical issues will determine not only whethermorally sound principles can be put into practice,but also how we formulate the moral questions.Here is work for twenty years to come and beyond.96
