SALIENCE: THE KEY TO THE SELECTION PROBLEM IN NATURAL LANGUAGE GENERATIONE.
Jeffrey ConklinDavid D. McDonaldDepartment of Computer and Information ScienceUniversity of MassachusettsAmherst, Massachusetts 01003 USA IABSTRACTWe argue that in domains where a strongnotion of salience can be defined, it can beused to provide: (I) an elegant solution to theselection problem, i.e.
the problem of how todecide whether a given fact should or should notbe mentioned in the text; and (2) a simple anddirect control framework for the entire deepgeneration process, coordinating proposing,planning, and realization.
(Deep generationinvolves reasoning about conceptual andrhetorical facts, as opposed to the narrowlylinguistic reasoning that takes place duringrealization.)
We report on an empirical studyof salience in pictures of natural scenes, andits use in a computer program that generatesdescriptive paragraphs comparable to thoseproduced by people.I.
The Selection ProblemAt the heart of research on naturallanguage generation is the question of how todecide what to say and, equally important, whatnot to say.
This is the "selection problem",and it has been approached in various ways inthe past: Direct translation generators such as\[Swartout 1981, Clancey to appear\] avoid theproblem by leaving the decision to the originaldesigner of the data structures that serve asthe templates to the generator; this places theburden on that designer to correctly anticipatewhat degree of detail and presupposed knowledgewill be appropriate to a specific audience sinceon-line adjustments are not possible.I.
This report describes work done in theDepartment of Computer and Information Scienceat the University of Massachusetts.
It wassupported in Dart by National Science Foundationgrant IST#8104984 (Michael Aroin and DavisMcDonald, Co-Principal Investigators).Mann and Moore \[1981\], on the other hand,while assembling texts dynamically to suit theiraudience, do so by "over-generating" the set offacts that will be related, and then passingthem all through a special filter, leaving outthose that are judged to be already known to theaudience and letting through those that are new.McKeown \[1981\] uses a similar technique -- hergenerator, like Mann and Moore's, must examineevery potentially mentionable object in thedomain data base and make an explicit judgementas to whether to include it.
We argue that in atask domain where salience information isavailable such filters are unnecessary becausewe can simply define a cut-off salience levelbelow which an object is ignored unlessindependently required for rhetorical reasons.The most elaborate and heuristic systemsto date use meta-knowledge about the facts inthe domain and the listener's knowledge of themto plan utterances to achieve some desiredeffect.
Cohen \[1978\] used speech-act theory todefine a space of possible utterances and thegoals they could achieve, which he searched byusing backwards chaining.
Appelt \[1982\] uses acompiled form of this search procedure which heencodes using Saccerdotti's procedural nets; heis able to plan the achievement of multiplerhetorical goals by looking for opportunities to"piggyback" additional phrases (sub-plans) intopending plans for utterances.
We argue that indomains where salience information is alreadyavailable, such thorough deliberations are oftenunnecessary, and that a straight-forwardenumeration of the domain objects according totheir relative salience, augmented withadditional rhetorical and stylistic informationon a strictly local basis, is sufficient for thedemands of the task.129II.
Deep Generation and Scene DescriptionsIn this paper we present an approach todeep generation that uses the relative salienceof the objects in the source data base tocontrol the order and detail of theirpresentation in the text.
We follow the usualview that natural language generation is dividedinto two interleaved phases: one in whichselection takes place reflecting the speaker'sgoals, and the selected material is composedinto a (largely conceptual) ,realizationspecification ,,I (abbreviated "r-spec") accordingto high-level rhetorical and stylisticconventions, and a second in which the r-spec isrealized -- the text actually produced -- inaccordance with the syntactic and morphologicalrules of the language.
We call the first phase"deep generation" -- instead of the morespecific term "planning" -- to reflect our viewthat its use of actual planning techniques willbe limited when compared to their use in thegenerators developed by Cohen, Appelt, or Mannand Moore.We are developing our theory of deepgeneration in the context of a computer programthat produces simple paragraphs describingphotographs of natural scenes similar to thoseanalyzed by the UMass VISIONS System \[Hanson andRiseman 1978, Parma 1980\].
Our input is amock-up of their final analysis of the scene,including a mock-up annotation of the salienceof all of the objects and their properties aswould be identified by VISIONS; thisrepresentation is expressed in a locallydeveloped version of KL-ONE.
The paragraphs arerealized using MUMBLE \[McDonald 1981, 1982\],which is responsible for all low-levellinguistic decisions and for carrying out therhetorical directives given in the r-spec.I.
We are introducing this new term --"realization specification" -- in place of theterm ,,message 'r which had been used in earlier~ ublications on McDonald's generation sy?tem.
his is a change in name only: these Objectshave the same formal properties as before.
Theshift reflects the kind of communicationmetaphor on which this work has actually beenbased: the old term has often connoted a view ofcommunication as a process of translating a datastructure in the speaker's head into languageand then reconstructing it in the audience'shead.
(the so-called "conduit" metaphor).Instead, we take it that a speaker has a set ofgoals whose realization may entail entirelyd~?fe-ent utterances depending upon who thea~dience is and what they already know; that thespeaker's knowledge of their language consist 9in large part of a catalog of wnat might be saiaand the effects it is likely to have on theaudience; and that, accordingly, languagegeneration entails a plannin~ process, selectingamong these effects according to the desiredoutcome.As of the beginning of February 1982, theinitial version of the deep generation phase hasbeen designed and implemented.
Figure I showsthe  kind of scene we are using in our studiesand an example of the kind of paragraphdescription targeted for our system.
Efforts to"This is a picture of a large white housewith a white fence in front of it.
In front ofthe fence is a cement sculpture.
In front ofthis is a street, Across the street is a grassypatch with a white mailbox.
There are trees allaround, with one evergreen to the right of thedriveway, which runs next to the house.
It isfall, the sky is overcast, and the ground iswet.
"Figure I.
One of the pictd~es used in theexperimental studies with one of the subjects'descriptions of it.
A mocked-up analysis ofthis picture was used as the input to the deepgeneration process in the example discussedbelow.modify MUMBLE to run in NIL on our VAX areunderway, and we anticipate having an initialrealization dictionary up and the first textsproduced before the end of May.
During thesummer and fall of 1981, Jeff Conklin (Conklinand Ehrlich, in preparation) carried out theseries of psychological experiments discussedimmediately below.
The results have been use~to determine the salience ratings for themock-up of the analyzed scenes, and to provide acorpus of the kinds of texts people actuallyproduce as descriptions of scenes of suburbanhouses.III.
Visual SalienceOur theory of visual salience states thata given person looking at a given picture in agiven context assigns a salience (an ordering,rather than a numeric value) to each object as a130natural and automatic part of the process ofperceiving and organizing the scene.Intuitively the salience of an object is basedon its size and centrality (how central i t  is)in the image, its degree of unexpectedness, andits intrinsic appeal or importance to theviewer.To substantiate and explore theseintuitions we ran a series of experiments inwhich a group of subjects rated the salience ofitems in color slides of natural scenes.
Foreach picture each subject had a form listing allof the major items in the scene, and their taskwas to rate the salience of each item on a zeroto seven scale.
In order to define a controlledcontext the subjects were asked to imagine thatthey worked for a library which had a largepicture section, and that their ranking scoreswould be used to Catalog the pictures.
Thecontrolled context is necessary because salienceis generally only defined within a perceptual orconceptual context -- there is no salience in avacuum.
(However, we claim that there is adefault context for viewing pictures which"anchors" the notion of salience when no othercontext is specified: that pictures are takenfor the purpose of showing or telling the viewersomething.
While this is not a strong context,it allows one to talk about visual saliencewithout precisely defining a purpose for theviewer.
)In several experiments the subjects weregiven a second task: writing a description ofthe same pictures for which they were doing therating task (one such description appears inFigure I).
In these experiments the series ofpictures was shown twice; in the first viewing,half of the subjects did the rating task and theother half did the description task, while inthe second viewing the tasks were reversed, (Itturned out that the description task had nosignificant effect on the rating scores.
)Although we are still analyzing the datafrom these experiments, _there are severalinteresting results.
The rating technique is afairly stable and consistent non-subjectivemeasure of salience (when averaging over a~roup) , and is also quite sensitive to changesin the size and centrality of objects in thescene.
Figure 2 shows a series of pictures thatwere used to determine the affects of size andcentrality.
The salience ratings assigned bysubjects to the parking meter in this serAeswere significantly different from each other(P<.05, as measured by the Wilcoxon rank sumtest).
That is, the rating task is sensitiveenough to reveal small changes in the sizeand/or centrality of objects in a picture.Figure 2 A series of views of a parking meterused to measure the affects of size andcentrality.131Also, it was found that salience was astrong determinant in the order of mention ofobjects in the paragraphs.
Specifically, thehigher the salience rating given an object by asubject, the more likely that object was toappear in the subject's description.Furthermore, there was a good correlationbetween the ranking of the objects (bydecreasing salience) and the order in which theobjects were mentioned in the description.Interestingly, the exceptions to a perfectcorrelation were generally the cases where a lowsalience item was "pulled up" into an earlierposition in the text, seemingly for rhetoricalreasons.
The explanation that we propose isthat salience is the primary force in selectionin scene descriptions, but that rhetoricalfactors can override it (as illustrated below).IV.
An ExampleHere is an short example of the kind ofparagraph which our system currently generates:"This is a picture of a whitehouse with a fence in front of it.The house has a red door and thefence has s red gate.
Next to thehouse is a driveway.
In theforeground is s mailbox.
It is acloudy winter day.
"This paragraph was generated from a perceptualrepresentation (in KL-ONE) in which the mostsalient objects, in order of decreasingsalience, were:House, Fence, Door, Driveway, Gate, and Mailbox.The deep generation component (called GENARO)maintains this list as the "Unmentioned SalientObjects List" (USOL), and it is this datastructure which mediates between GENARO and thedomain data base (see Figure 3).
It should bestressed that the USOL contains only objects --not properties of objects or relationshipsbetween objects -- since we specifically claimthat such an "object-driven" approach is notonly more natural but also is adequate to thetask.There are two "registers" which are usedfor focus: "Current-Item" and "Main-Item".
TheCurrent-Item register contains the objectcurrently in focus (and hence the most salientobject which has not previously been mentioned),and the Main-Item register points to the database's most salient object as the topic of theentire paragraph (this register is set once atthe beginning of the paragraph generationprocess).
An object moves into focus by being"popped" from the USOL and placed in theDATABASE00 0 0 000 ?
0USOL(leastsalient)(mostsalient)$Rhetorical Rules(in packets)Paragraph~" Driver\[ Proposed  R-Spec Elements ione MUMBLEFigure ~.
~ Liock diagram of the GENARO system.
The "O"sin the "Data Base" represent objects in the domain represen-tation, whereas the "~"s are the themeatic "shadows" of theseobjects used by GENARO for its rhetorical processing.
Eachof the ovals in the "Rhetorical Rules" box are packets containingone or more rhetorical rules.132Current-Item register, along with its mostsalient properties and relationships (for easeof access).
When formulating the r-spec, mostof the rhetorical rules then look only at theCurrent-Item.
(Some rules look down "into" theUSOL, or into the r-spec under construction, aselaborated below.
)GENARO stores its rhetorical conventionsin the form of production rules, which areorganized in packets (a la Marcus, 1980).
Thepackets are used for high-level rhetoricalcontrol (i.e.
introducing, elaborating,shifting-topic, concluding), and are turned onand off by a Paragraph Driver (which encodes theformat of descriptive paragraphs).
We callthis control structure for the production rules"Iteratlve Proposing": each of the rules in theactive packets whose condition is satisfiedmakes a proposal and gives it a rhetoricalpriority; the proposals are then ranked, and theone  with the highest priority wins.
Thlsprocess is Itterated until the r-spec iscomplete.
The environment in which the rules'conditions are evaluated may change fromitteration to Jr,era,ion as a result of actionsperformed by the winning proposals.
The r - speccan thus be thought of as a "molecule", each ofwhose "atoms" is the result of a successfulrule.
The atoms are "specification elements" tobe processed by MUMBLE; they are either objects,properties, or relations from the domain, orrhetorical instructions that originate withGENARO.
(N.b.
In the course of producing aparagraph many r-specs will pass from GENARO toMUMBLE.
The flow of the paragraph is determinedby which rules are turned on -- via theParagraph Driver's control of which packets areon -- and each r-spec is produced "locally",without an awareness of previous r-specs or aplanning of future ones.
)GENARO starts with an empty message bufferand with Current-item (in our example) set toHouse, the first item in the Unused SalientObject List.
The Introduce packet, which isturned on initially, has a rule which proposesto "Introduce(House)"; this rule's conditionsare that the value of the Current-Item be valueof the Main-Item (i.e.
the Main-Item is infocus), and that the salience of the Main-Itembe above some specified threshold.
In thisexample both of these conditions are met, andthe "atom" Introduce(House) is proposed at ahigh rhetorical priority, thus guaranteeing notonly that it will be included in the firstr-spec, but that it will be the dominant atom inthat r-spec.
Another rule (in the Elaboratepacket), proposes including the color of thehouse (e.g.
Color(House,White)), not because thecolor is itself salient, but to "flesh out" the.introductory sentence.
This rule is includedbecause we noticed that salient items wererarely mentioned as "bare" objects -- someproperty was always given.
(Note also thatthere are other rules that propose mentioningproperties of objects on other grounds, i.e.because the property itself is salient.
)Finally, there is a rule which notices thatFence is both quite salient and directly relatedto the current topic, and so proposesIn-Front-Of(Fence, House).Since the r-spec now contains three atomsand there are no strong grounds based onsalience or considerations of style to continueadding to it, the r-spec is sent (via a narrowbandwith system message) to the process MUMBLE,which immediately starts realizing it.
MUMBLE'sdictionary contains entries for all of thesymbols used in the r-spec, e.g.
Introduce,In-front'of, House, etc., which are used toconstruct a linguistic phrase marker which thencontrols the realization process, outputing"This is a picture of a white house with a fencein front of it.".
Back in GENARO, after ther-spec was sent, the Introduce packet was turnedoff, the message buffer cleared, Door (the nextunused object) removed from the USOL and placedin the Current-Item register, and the IterativeProposing process started over.In building the next r-spec, Part-of(Door,House) and Color(Door, Red) are inserted, byrules similiar to the ones described above.Suppose, however, that there are no othersalient relations or properties to mention aboutthe Current-Item Door: nothing of highrhetorical priority is left to be proposed (n.b.once a rule's proposal is accepted that ruleturns itself off until that r-spec is complete).There is, however, a rule called "Condense"which looks for rhetorical parallels andproposes them at low priority (i.e.
they onlyw in  when there are no, more useful, rhetoricaleffects which apply).
Condense notices thatboth Door (the Current-Item) and Gate (which issomewhere "down" in the USOL) have the propertyRed, and that the salience of Gate and of theproperty Color(Gate, Red) are above theappropriate thresholds, and so proposes thatGate be made the local focus.
When this action133is taken, a conjunction marker is added to ther-spec, and  Gate is pulled out of the USOL andmade the Current-item.
The r-spec created bythese actions is realized as "The house has ared door and the fence has a red gate.
".When the USOL is empty the Conclude packetis turned on, and a rule in it proposes ther-spec about the lighting in the picture.
(Thefacts about "cloudy" and "winter" are present inthe perceptual representation -- no extrageneration work was done to make that message.)'V.
A Rhetorical ProblemOne of the issues that we are using GENAROto investigate is that in their writtendescriptions people sometimes "chain" spatiallythrough a picture, linking objects which arespatially close to each other or are in certainother strong relationships to each other.
Theparagraph in Figure I contains a good example ofthis style -- the rhetorical skeleton is:This is a picture of an A witha B in front of it.In front of the B is a C.In front of the C is a D.Across the D is an E.As can be seen by inspecting the picturein Figure I, A thru E (i.e.
house, fence,sculpture, street, and grassy patch) are arrayedfrom background to foreground in the picture ina way which allows the "in-front-of" relation tobe used between them.
I The question is: By whatmechanism do we allow the strong spatial linksbetween these items to override the system'sbasic strategy of mentioning objects in theorder of decreasing salience?The first part of the answer is that themachinery for such chaining already exists inthe way the Current-Item register is used (andcan be reset) by the rhetorical rules.
Sinceone of the actions rules are allowed is to resetthe Current-Item to some object, a rule can bewritten which says "If the Current-Item has asalient relationship Relation to object X, thenpropose Relatlon(Current-Item,X) and make X theCurrent-Item".
This rule (let's call it Chain)would have the effect of chaining from objectto object as long as no other rules had a higherI.
"Across" in this case would be a lexicalvariation on "in-front-of" introduceddeliberately by MUMBLE to break up therepetition.
(rhetorical) priority and the various"Relation"'s of the respective Current-Itemswere salient enough to satisfy the rule'scondition.But this kind of chaining would onlyhappen as the result of a happy series of theright local decisions -- each successful firingof Chain would be independent of the others.Furthermore, there would be no guarantee thatthe successive "Relation"'s would be the same,as is the case in the above example.
What isneeded, perhaps, is to give Chain the ability tolook at the structure of the evolving r-spec andto notice when there is an opportunity to buildupon a structural parallel (e.g.
X in front ofY, Y in front of Z).
We are currentlyinvestigating ways to make this kind ofstructural parallel visible within r-specs andstill maintain them as a concise andnarrow-bandwidth channel between GENARO andMUMBLE.VI.
ReferencesAppelt, D. Planning Natural Lan~uaseUtterances to~fy - ' -~Dle  Goals,vh.D.
D isser~Y ' io~ord  dni%ersi~:-yT-~oappear as a technical report from SRIInternational, 1982.Clancey, W. (to appear) "The Epistemology of aRule-Based Expert System: A Framework forExplanation", Journal of ArtificialIntelligence; also available as HeuristicProgramming Project Report 81-17, StanfordUniversity, November 1981.Cohen, P., On Knowing What to Say: PlanningSpeech- -Ac -~n ivers i t '~-  of I~oron~o,l%chnlcal--~port 118, 1978.Conklin E. J.
(in preparation) PhD.Dissertation, COINS, University ofMassachusetts, Amherst, 01003.and Ehrlich K. (in preparation) "AnInvestigation of Visual Salience",Technical Report, COINS, U. Mass.,Amherst, Ma.
01003.Hanson, A. R. and Riseman, E. M. "VISIONS: ACom~uter System for Interpreting Scenes",in Computer Vision Systems, Hanson, A. R.ands~, - -E~.
- (~Academic  Press,New York, pp 449-510, 1978.Marcus, M. A Theory of syntactic Recognitionfor Natural Language, MIT Press,~ b r i c ~ s a c h - ~ ,  1980.McDonald, David D. "Language Generation: thesource of the dictionary", in theProceedings of the Annual Conference ofthe Association for ComputationalLinguistics, Stanford University, June,1981...... "Natural Language Generation as aComputational Problem: an introduction" inBrady ed.
"Computational Th~,:~ies ofDiscourse", MIT Press, to appear, fall1982.134McKeown, K. , Generatin~ Natural Language:What to ~ Nex.~nivers i~y ofFeTnTsy~anTa3-,  - -  - - -1 -echnicaz  ~eprocMS-CIS-81-I, 1981.Mann, W. and Moore, J.
"ComPuter Generationof Multiparagraph Text", American Journalof Computational Linguistics, 7:1, Jan-Mar1981, pp 17-29, 1981.Parma, Cesare C., Hanson, A. R., and Riseman, E.M. "Experiments in Schema-DrivenInterpretation of a Natural Scene", inDigital Image Processing.
Simon.
J. C. andHaPa lzcK , - - - - 'R .
M. (~ds), D. ReidelPublishing Co., Dordrecht, Holland, pp303-334, 1980.Swartout, W. Producing Explanations andJustifications oz ~xper~ ~onsultzn~Programs, Technica-l-Repor-6-~1, Laboratoryrot computer Science, MassachusettsInstitute of Technology, Cambridge,Massachusetts, 1981.135
