PLANNING NATURAL LANGUAGEREFERRING EXPRESSIONSDouglas E. AppeltSRI InternationalMenlo Park, CaliforniaABSTRACTThis paper describes how a language-planning systemcan produce natural-language r ferring expressions thatsatisfy multiple goals.
It describes a formal representationfor reasoning about several agents' mutual knowledge us-ing possible-worlds semantics and the general organizationof a system that uses the formalism to reason about planscombining physical and linguistic actions at different levelsof abstraction.
It discusses the planning of concept ac-tivation actions that are realized by definite referring ex-pressions in the planned utterances, and shows how it ispossible to integrate physical actions for communicatingintentions with linguistic actions, resulting in plans thatinclude pointing as one of the communicative actions avail-able to the speaker.I.
INTRODUCTIONOne of the mo~t important constituent processes ofnatural-language neration is the production of referringexpressions, which occur in almost every utterance.
Refer-ring expressions often carry the burden of informing thehearer of propositions as well as referring to objects.
There-fore, many phenomena that are observed in dialogues can-e t .
?_w~eet .
.
/ -  J " -?
'~ " " '  " -~Figure 1Satisfying Multiple Goals with a Referring ExpressionThe author gratefully acknowledges the support for this researchprovided in part by the Office of Naval Research under contractN0014-80-C-0296 and in part by the National Science Foundationunder grant MCS-8115105.not be explained by the simple view that referring expres-sions are descriptions of the intended referent sufficient odistinguish the referent from other objects in the domainor in focus.Consider the situation (depicted in Figure 1) in whichtwo agents, an apprentice and an expert, are cooperatingon a common task, such as disassembling an air compres-sor.
Several tools are lying on the workbench, and al-though the apprentice knows that the objects are there,he may not necessarily know where they are.
The expertmight say:Use the wheelpuller to remove the flywheel.
(1)while pointing at the wheelpuller.
The apprentice maythink to himself at this point, "Ah, ha, so that's a wheel-puller," and then proceed to remove the flywheel.What the expert is accomplishing through the utteranceof (1) by using the noun phrase "the wheelpuller" cannotbe fully explained by treating definite referring expressionssimply as descriptions that are uniquely true of some ob-ject, even taking focusing \[71\[11\] into account.
The expertuses "the wheelpuller" to refer to an object that in factuniquely fits the description predicated of it, so this simpleanalysis is incapable of accounting for the effects the expertintends his utterance to have.If one takes the knowledge and intentions of the speakerand hearer into account, a more accurate account of thespeaker's use of the referring expression can be developed.The apprentice does not know what the object is thatfits the description "the wheelpuller".
The expert knowsthat the apprentice doesn't know this, and performs thepointing action to guarantee that his intentions will berecognized correctly.The apprentice must recognize what the expert is try-ing to communicate by pointing - -  he must realize thatpointing is not just a random gesture, but is intended bythe speaker to be recognized as a communicative act bythe hearer in much the same way as his utterances arerecognized as communicative acts.
Furthermore, the ap-prentice must recognize how the pointing act is cw:,'elatedwith the utterance the expert is producing.
Although thereis no sped~: deictic reference in the expert's utterance, itis clear that he does not mean the flywheel, since we willassume that the apprentice can determine that the object108he is pointing to is a tool.
The apprentice realizes thatthe object the expert is pointing to is the intended referentof "the wheelpuUer," but in the process, he also acquiresthe information that the expert believes the object he ispointing to is a wheelpuller, and that the exPert has alsoinformed him of that fact.A language-planning system called KAMP (for Know-ledge And Modalities Planner} has been developed thatcan plan utterances similar to example {1) above, coor-dinate the linguistic actions with physical actions, andknow that the utterance it plans will have the intendedmultiple effects on the hearer.
KAMP builds on Cohen andPerrault's idea of planning speech acts \[4\], but extends theplanning activity down to the level of constructing sur-face English sentences.
A detailed description of the en-tire KAMP system can be found in \[2\].
The system hasbeen implemented and tested on examples in a cooperat iveequipment assembly domain, such as the  one in example{1).
This paper develops and extends ome of the ideas ofan early prototype system described in \[1\].The reference problems that KAMP addresses are a sub-set of a more general problem, which, following Cohen \[5\]will be called 'identification.'
Whenever a speaker makesa definite reference, he intends the hearer to identify someobject in the world as the referent.
Identifying a refer-en~ requires that the agent perform some cognitive ac-tivity, such as the simple case of matching the descriptionwith what he knows, or in some cases plan to performperceptual actions that lead to the identification.
KAMPsimplifies the problem by not considering perceptual ac-tions, and assumes that there is some 'perceptual field'common to the participants in a dialogue, and that theobjects that lie within that field are mutually known tothe participants, along with the observable properties andrelations that hold among them.For example, the speaker and hearer in (1) are assumedto mutually know the size, shape and location of all objectson the workbench.
The agents may not know unobservableproperties of the objects, such as the fact that a particulartool is a wheelpuller.
Similarly, the participants are as-sumed to be mutually aware of physical actions that takeplace within their perceptual field, without explicitly per-forming any perceptual ctions.
When the expert points atthe wheelpuller, the apprentice is simply assumed to knowthat he is doing it.H.
KNOWLEDGE REPRESENTATIONKAMP uses an intensional logic to describe facts aboutthe world, including the knowledge of agents.
The possible-worlds semantics of this intensional logic is axiomatized infirst-order logic as described by Moore \[8\].
The axiomatiza-tion enables KAMP to reason about how the knowledge ofboth the speaker and the hearer changes as they performactions.
* What it means to identify an object is somewhat problematical.KAMP assumes that identification means that the referring descrip-tion conjoined with focusing knowledge picks out the same individualin all possible worlds consistent with what the agent knows.Moore's central idea is to axiomatize operators uch asKnow as relations between possible worlds.
For example,if Wo denotes the real world, then Know(John, P) meansP is true in every possible world that is consistent withwhat John knows.
This is stated formally in the axiomschema:Vwl T(w,, Know(A,  P ) )Vw2 K(A, w,, w2) D T(w2,P).
(1)The predicate T(w,P) means that P is true in possibleworld w. The predicate K(A,w,,w2) means that w2 isconsistent with what A knows in w,.Actions are described by treating possible worlds asstate variables, and axiomatizing actions as relations be-tween possible worlds.
Thus, R(E, wl, w2) means thatworld w2 is the result of event E happening in world w2.It is important that a language planning system reasonabout mutual knowledge while planning referring expres-sions \[31151.
Failure to consider the mutual knowledge ofthe speaker and hearer can lead to the failure of the refer-ence.
K.AMP uses an axiomatization of mutual knowledgein terms of relations on possible worlds.
An agent's know-ledge is described as everything that is true in all pos-sible worlds compatible with his knowledge.
The mutualknowledge of two agents A and B is everything that istrue in the union of the possible worlds compatible withA's knowledge and B's knowledge.
* To state this fact for-mally, an individual called the kernel of A and B is definedsuch that the set of possible worlds compatible with thekernel's knowledge is the set of all worlds compatible witheither A's knowledge or B's knowledge.
This leads to thefollowing definition of mutual knowledge:Vw, T(wl, Mutua l lyKnow(A,  B, P))Vw2 K(Kernel(A, B), U\]l, I/)2) D r(w2, P).
(2)In (2), T(w, P) means that the object language propositionP is true in possible world w, and K(a, w,, w~) is a predi-cate that describes the relation between possible worldsthat means that w2 is a possible alternative to w, accord-ing to a's knowledge.
The second axiom needed is:Vz, w,, w2 K(z, w,, w2) D VyK(Kernel(z, y), wl, w~) (3)Axiom (3) states that the possible worlds consistent withany agent's knowledge is a subset of the possible worldsconsistent with the kernel of that agent and any otheragent.HI.
THE KAMP PLANNING SYSTEMKAMP is a multiple-agent planning system designedaround a NOAH-like hierarchical planner \[10\].
KAMP usestwo descriptions of each action available to the planningagent: a complete axiomatization of the action using thepossible-worlds approach outlined above, and an action* Notice that the "intersection" of the propositions believed by twoagents is represented by the union of possible worlds compatible withtheir knowledge.109summary consisting of a simplified escription of the actionthat serves as a heuristic to aid in proposing plans that arelikely to succeed.
KAMP forms a plan using the simplifiedaction summaries first, and then verifies the plan using thefull axiomatization.
Since the possible-worlds axioms lendthemselves more efficiently to proving a plan correct hanin generating a plan in the first place, such an approachresults in a system that is considerably more efficient hanone relying on the possible-worlds axioms alone.Because action summaries represent actions in a sim-plified form, the planner can ignore details of the effectsof communicative acts to produce a plan that is likely towork in most circumstances.
For example, if a simplifieddescription of the effects of informing states that the hearerknows the proposition, then the planner can reason that aplan to achieve the goal of the hearer knowing P is likely toinclude the action of informing him that P is true.
In therelatively unlikely event hat this description is inadequate,this fact will be detected uring the verification phasewhere the more complete description is invoked.The flow of control during KAMP's heuristic plan-gen-eration phase is similar to that of NOAH's.
If a goal needsto be satisfied, KAMP searches for actions that can achievethe goal and inserts them into the plan, along with thepreconditions, which become new goals to be satisfied.When the entire plan has been expanded to one level ofabstraction, then if there is a lower level, all high-levelactions that have low-level expansions are expanded.Between each stage of expansion, critics are invokedthat examine the plan for global interactions between ac-tions, and make changes in the structure of the plan toavoid the bad effects of the interactions and take advantageof the beneficial ones.
Critics play an important role in theplanning of referring expressions, and their functions aredescribed more fully in Section IV.I IIIocuUonary Acts \[Ilequ~NalnqlI Surface Speech Acts ICammm~ Oe~lamJudi!
??.o.
?, I _ __  _1 , Utterance Acts IFigure 2A Hierarchy of Actions Related to Lanb~uageKAMP's hierarchy of linguistic actions is illustrated inFigure 2.
The hierarchy consists of illocntionary acts, sur-face speech-acts, concept-activation actions, and utteranceacts?
Illocutionary acts are speech acts such as inform-ing and requesting, which are planned at the highest levelwithout regard for any specific linguistic realization.
Thenext level consists of surface speech-acts, which are abstrac-tions of the actions of uttering particular sentences withparticular syntactic structures.
At this level the plannerstarts making commitments o particular choices in syn-tactic structure, and linguistic knowledge nters the plan-ning process.
One surface speech-act can realize one ormore illocutionary acts.
The next level consists of concept-activation actions, which entail the planning of descrip-tions that are mutually believed by the speaker and hearerto refer to objects in the world.
This is the level of abstrac-tion at which noun phrases for definite reference are plan-ned.
Finally, at the lowest level of abstraction are ut-terance acts, consisting of the utterance of specific words.IV.
PLANNING CONCEPT-ACT IVAT IONACT IONSConcept-activation actions describe referring at a highenough level of abstraction so that they are not constrainedto have purely linguistic realizations.
When a concept-activation action is expanded to a lower level of abstrac-tion, it can result in the planning of a noun phrase withinthe surface speech-act of which the concept activation is apart, and physical actions uch as pointing that also com-municate the speaker's intention to refer.KAMP can plan referential definite noun phrases thatrealize concept-activation actions.
(The planning of at-tributive and indefinite referring expressions has not yetbeen addressed.)
KAMP recognizes the need to plan aconcept activation when it is expanding a surface speech-act.
The surface speech-act is planned with a particularproposition that the hearer has to come to believe thespeaker wants him to know or want.
It is necessary toinclude whatever information the hearer needs to recog-nize what the proposition is, and this leads to the neces-sity of referring to the particular objects mentioned in theproposition.
The planner often reasons that some objectsdo not need to be referred to at all.
For example, in re-questing a hearer to remove the pump from the platformin an air-compressor assembly task, if the hearer knowsthat the pump is attached to the platform and nothingelse, it is not necessary to mention the platform, since itis sufficient o say "Remove the pump," for the hearer torecognize the following propomtlon:Want(S, Do(H, Remove(pumpl, latforml))).The planning of a concept-activation action is similarto the planning of an illocutionary act in that the speakeris trying to get the hearer to recognize his intention toperform the act.
This means that all that is necessaryfrom a high-level planning point of view is that the speakerperform some action that signals to the hearer that the* For a description of KAMP's  formalization of wanting, see Appelt,12\]?ii0speaker wants to refer to the object.
This is often done byincorporating a mutually believed description of the ob-ject into the utterance, but there is no requirement thatthe means by which the speaker communicates this inten-tion be linguistic.
For example, the speaker could pointat an object (almost always a communicative act), or per-haps throw it at the hearer (not so clearly communicativebut definitely attention-getting.
The hearer has to reasonwhether there are any communicative intentions behindthe act.
)Since concept-activation actions are planned during theexpansion of surface speech-acts, the actions that realizethem must somehow become part of the utterance beingplanned.
Therefore, all concept-activation actions are ex-panded with two components: an intention-communicationcomponent and a surface-linguistic component.
The inten-tion-communication component is an abstraction of thespeaker's plan to communicate his intention to refer, andmay be realized by a plan that includes physical and lin-guistic actions.
The surface-linguistic component consistsof the realization (in some linguistic expression) of theintention-communication component as part of the surfacespeech.act being planned, which means that the realizationmust be grammatically consistent with the sentence.The following two axiom schemata describe conceptactivation in KAMP's possible worlds representation:Vwl, w2 R(Do(A, Cact(B, C)), w,, w2) DT(w,, Want(A, Active(A, B, C))) AT{w2, Active(A, B, C))(4)Vw,, w2 R(Do(A, Cact(B, C)), Wl, w2) DVw3 K(Kernel(A, B), w2, wa) D3w4 R(Do(A, Cact(B, C)), w4, ws) A (5)K(Kernel(A, B), w,, w4)Axiom schema (4) says that when an agent A performs aconcept activation for an agent B, he must first want theobject C to be active, and as a result of performing it, Cbecomes active with respect o A and B; Axiom schema(5) says that after agent A performs the action, the twoagents A and B mutually know that the action has beenperformed.The consequence for the planner of axiomatizing con-cept activation as in (4) and (5) is that the problem of ac-tivating a concept now becomes one of getting the hearerto know that the speaker wants a particular concept obe active.
This is the role of the intention-communicationcomponent in the expansion of the concept activation.KAMP knows about two types of actions that produceknowledge about what concepts a speaker wants to be ac-tive.
One is an action called describe, which is ultimatelyexpanded into a linguistic description corresponding to theconcept he speaker intends to activate, and the other iscalled point, which is a generalized pointing action.
Thepoint action is assumed to directly communicate he inten-tion to activate aconcept, thereby avoiding the problem ofobserving a gesture and deciding whether it is a pointing,or an attempt o scratch an itch.The following schema defines the describe action:VWlW2 R(Do(A, Describe(B, P}), w,, w2) D3.
A (vy D'(y) 3 ?
= y)) - (6)T(wl, Want(A, Active(A, B, z)))Axiom (6) says that the precondition for an agent to per-form an action of describing using a particular descriptionP is that the speaker wants an objee~ to be active if andonly if it uniquely fits the description predicated of it.
In(6), the symbol P denotes a description consisting of objectlanguage predicates that can be applied to the object beingdescribed.
It could be defined asP ~- Xx.
(D,(z) A.. .
A D.(x))where the Di(z) are the individual descriptors that com-prise the description.
The symbol D* denotes a similar ex-pression, which includes all the descriptors of P conjoinedwith a set of predicates that describe the focus of thedis-course.
An axiom similar to (5) is also needed to assertthat the speaker and hearer will mutually know, after theaction is performed, that it has taken place.
Therefore, ifthe speaker and hearer mutually know of an object thatsatisfies P in focus, then they mutually know that thespeaker wants it to be active.The pointing action is much simpler because it does notrequire either the speaker or the hearer to know anythingat all about the object.Vwl, w2 R(Do(A, Point(B,X)), w,, w~) DT(w,, Want(A, Active(A, B, X))).
(7)According to the above axiom, if an agent points at anobject, that implies that he wants the object to be active.As usual, an axiom similar to (5) is required to assert hatthe agents mutually know the action has been performed.Axioms (4) and (5) work together with (6) and (7)to produce the desired effects.
When a speaker utters adescription, or points, he communicates his intention torefer.
When he performs the concept-activation actionby incorporating the surface-linguistic component of hisaction into a surface speech-act, his intentions are carriedout.
Because the equivalence of axiom (6) can be usedin both directions, if the speaker wants an object to beactive, then one can reason that he knows the descriptionpredicated of it is true.A major problem facing the planner is deciding whenthe necessary conditions obtain to be able to take ad-vantage of the interactions between (6) and (7).
Since thistask involves examining several actions in the plan, it isperformed by a critic called the action-subsumption critic.This critic notices when the speaker is informing the hearer* A complete discussion of focusing in KAMP is beyond the scope ofthis paper.
KAMP uses an axiomatization of Sidner's focusing rulesIll\]to keep track of focus shifts.Iiiof a predication that could be included in the descriptionassociated with a concept activation.
When such an in-teraction is noticed, the critic proposes a modification tothe plan.
If the surface-linguistic component does not in-sist that the modification is impossible given the grammar,then the action subsumption is carried out.In example (1), for instance, the expert has a high-levelplan that includes the performance of two illocutionaryacts: requesting that the apprentice remove the pump us-ing a particular tool (call it tool1), and informing the ap-prentice that tool1 is a wheelpuller.
The action subsump-tion critic notices that in the request the expert is referringto tool1 and also wants to inform the hearer of a propertyof tool1.
Therefore, it proposes combining the property ofbeing a wheelpuller into the description used for referringto tool1 while making the request.V.
CONCLUSIONThis paper has described a formalism for describing theaction of referring in a manner that is useful for a genera-tion system based on planning, like KAMP.
The centralidea is to divide referring into two tasks: an intention-communication task and a surface-linguistic ask.
By sodoing, it is possible to axiomatize different actions thatcommunicate a speaker's intention to refer.
Thus, theplanner is able to produce plans that produce natural-language referring expressions, but take the larger contextof the speaker's nonlinguistic actions into account as well.KAMP currently plans only simple definite reference.One promising extension of this approach for future re-search is to extend the active predicate to apply to inten-sional concepts in addition to the extensional ones nowrequired for definite reference.
We hope this will allow forthe planning of attributive and indefinite reference as well.KAMP currently does not plan quantified noun phrases,nor can it refer generically, nor can it refer to collectionsof entities.
Much basic research needs to be done to ex-tend KAMP to handle these other cases, but we hope thatthe formalism outlined here will provide a good base fromwhich to investigate these extensions.VI.
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTSThe author is grateful to Barbara Grosz, Bob Mooreand Nils Nilsson for comments on earlier drafts of thispaper.VII.
REFERENCES\[3\]\[4\]\[51\[6\]\[7\]\[8\]I9\]\[10\]\[11\]Clark, Herbert, and C. Marshall, Definite Referenceand Mutual Knowledge, in Joshi et.
al.
(eds.
), Ele-ments of Discourse Understanding, CambridgeUniversity Press, Cambridge, 1981.Cohen, Philip and C. R. Perrault, Elements of a Plan-Based Theory of Speech Acts, Cognitive Science, vol.3, pp.
177-212, 1979.Cohen, Philip, and H. Levesque, Speech Acts andthe Recognition of Shared Plans,, Proceedings of theCanadian Society for Computational Studies in Intel-ligence, 1980.Cohen, Philip, The Need for Referent Identificationas a Planned Action, Proceedings of IJCAI-7, 1981.Grosz, Barbara J., Focusing and Description in Nat-ural Language Dialogs, in Joshi et al (eds.
), Elementsof Discourse Understanding: Proceedings of aWorkshop on Computational Aspects of Lin-guistic Structure and Discourse Setting, Cam-bridge University Press, Cambridge, 1980.Moore, Robert C., Reasoning about Knowledge andAction, SRI International Technical Note No.
191,1980.Olson, D., From Utterance to Text: The Bias of Lan-guage in Speech and Writing, Harvard EducationalReview, Vol, 47, No.
3, August, 1077.Sacerdoti, Earl, A Structure for Plans and Be-havior, Elsevier North-Holland, Inc., Amsterdam,1977.Sidner, Candacl L., Toward a Computational Theoryof Definite Anaphora Comprehension i  English, MITTechnical Report AI-TR-537, 1979.I1\]I2\]Appelt, Douglas E., Problem Solving Applied to Lan-guage Generation, Proceedings of the 18th AnnualMeeting of the ACL, 1980.Appelt, Douglas E., Planning Natural Language Utter-ances To Satisfy Multiple Goals, SRI InternationalTechnical Note No.
259, 1982.112
