"NATURAL LANGUAGE TEXTS ARE NOT NECESSARILY  GRAMMATICAL  AND UNAMBIGUOUSOR EVEN COMPLETE.
"Lance A. MillerBehavioral Sciences and Linguistics GroupIBM Watson Research CenterP.
O.
Box 218Yorktown Heights, NY 10598The EPISTLE system is being developed in a researchproject for exploring the feasibility of a varietyof intelligent applications for the processing ofbusiness and office text (!
'Z; the authors ofare the project workers).
Although ultimatelyintended functions include text generation (e.g.,4), present efforts focus on text analysis: devel-oping the capability to take in essentiallyunconstrained business text and to output grammarand style critiques, on a sentence by sentencebasis.Briefly, we use a large on-line dictionary and abottom-up parser in connection with an AugmentedPhrase Structure Grammar (5) to obtain an approxi-mately correct structural description of thesurface text  (e.g., we posit no transformations orrecovery of deleted material to infer underlying"deep" structures).
In this process we always tryto force a single parse output, even in the pres-ence of true ambiguity.
Grammatical critiques areprovided by having very strong grammar restrictionsin an initial processing of the sentence; shouldthe application of grammar rules fail to lead tothe identification of a complete, syntacticallycorrect, sentence, we then process the material asecond time, adding other rules which essentiallyrelax certain constraints, such as subject-verbnumber agreement, thereby permitting us to recog-nize a wide variety of true grammatical errors.The stylistic critiques are based on measurementsof the detailed hierarchical structure descriptionsproduced by the parser, letting us detect a varietyof stylistic characteristics judged by "experts" tobe undesirable: too great a distance betweensubject and verb, too much embedding, unbalancedsubject/predicate size, excessive negation or quan-tification, etc.The text corpus used for system construction andtesting is a set of some 400 business letters,mostly written by individuals from within variousorganizations to individuals outside those organ-izations.
These letters, which consist of approxi-mately 2300 sentences, were selected from a largercollection (about 2000 letters) as being represen-tative of the wide variety of styles, tones,subject matter, purposes, lengths, factual content,and organization-type found in the overall popu-lation of business letters.
A corpus differing inso many of the above features is also heterogeneouswith respect to syntactic structures -- and there-fore with respect to the grammatical capabilitiesthat must be incorporated for correct recognition.However, it was one thing to be prepared for struc-tural diversity; it was quite another thing to befaced with the fact that our business letters arenot some small to moderate subset of grammaticalphenomena.
Rather, they include all of the commonand most of the arcane constructions one could findin, say, Warriner and Griffith (6).
For example,the very first sentence we tackled was 29 wordslong and began "How nice it was to receive yourletter complimenting our Manager, Bud Handy, on hiscourtesy ?
.. : we ran into extraposition, inver-sion, infinitive nominalization, gerund phrase, andappositive all within the first 13 words!
A prima-ry consequence of this rich jumble of syntacticscree was the frequent annoyance of being stoppeddead in our processing tracks as our grammarrevealed itself to be yet once more incomplete.But it was not only the incompleteness of the gram-mar (for correct sentences) that gave us trouble:many words were not recognized, sometimes sentenceswere incomplete, other times they were trulyungrammatical (via normal abnormalities of grammaror via what appeared to be a rather thoughtless --or at least uninformed -- scattering of apostrophesand semicolons within the text) and often we wereraced not with our desired single parse but withmany.
These then are the situations which criedout for techniques either to keep processing goingor, at least, to keep it alive long enough for it toscratch out detailed informative guesses at struc-ture on the parsing floor before expiring.The techniques for hardiness and robustness whichwe have developed in the two years of implementa-tion, and particularly recently, are mostlyspecific to the five trouble situations referred toabove.
For (i) unrecognized words (words not in our125K entry on-line dictionary) we check firsteither for initial capitalization or for an inter-nal hyphen, presuming a proper name -- noun -- partof speech for the former and either noun or adjec-tive for the latter.
As we improve our dictionaryprocessing, to support efficient affix-strippingand stem storage, we now plan to hypothesize partsof speech based upon, in particular, the outersuffixes (e.g., "ly" pretty conclusively estab-lishes multi-syllabic words as adverbs).
This more"intelligent" processing at the part-of-speechlevel is particularly important for avoiding multi-ple false parses.167For the two situations of either (ii) an incompletegrammar failing to process a complete grammaticalsentence, or (iii) an actual incomplete sentence(sentence fragment), we are no able to output asingle "best" structural description when the gram-mar can do no more (Jensen and Heidorn,forthcoming).
This partial structure is "best" inthe sense that it provides the largest and mostcontinuous coverage of the input text string, andit also adheres to certain orderings of parts ofspeech and non-terminal constituents.
Our experi-ence with such structures is that they are quiteoften correct, always better than a "CANNOT PARSE"outcome, and appear to be fairly usable for stylecritiquing.
In the future we believe more can bedone with sentence fragments by assuming, first,they are simply to be conjoined to some element ofthe previous sentence, or, second, they are anelaboration of an immediately preceding element; ineither case the partial structure output shouldprovide sufficient information to "hook" the frag-ments in correctly.For (iv) truly ungrammatical sentences~ asmentioned previously, we introduce a second passwith a number of grammatical restrictions relaxed;should any complete sentence structure result wecan determine which relaxations were responsibleand thereby actually identify the class of ungram-maticality.
From the point of view of usefulapplications, this is much more of a desirableuser-oriented function than an internal robustrecovery procedure.
Nonetheless, from the point ofview of the style critiques at the sentence andparagraph levels, this procedure assures the bestpossible starting point, despite "noise" in theinput text.Finally, (v) the situation of multiple parses isdealt with by two techniques.
The first is thedeliberate attempt to construct the grammar rulessuch that no more than a single parse can squeezethrough in most situations; the second is thedevelopment of a metric which computes a realnumber for each parse, based on its structuralfeatures, with the decision rule simply being tochoose the parse with the smallest number (~).Our experience with this metric is that it usuallyleads to selection of the best all-around parse;such errors as are made would seem to requiresemantic -- and even pragmatic -- information to beweighed in the metric, a capability presentlybeyond our means.REFERENCESi.
Miller, Lance A.
"Project EPISTLE: A system forthe automatic analysis of business correspond-ence."
Proceedings of the First AnnualNational Conference on ArtificialIntelligence~ Stanford University, August,1980, 280-282.2.
Miller, Lance A., George E. Heidorn, and KarenJensen "Text-Critiquing with the EPISTLESystem: An Author's Aid to Better Syntax.
"AFIPS Proceedings of the National ComputerConference~ Chicago, May 4-7, 1981, 649-655.3.
Heidorn, George E., Karen Jensen, Lance A. Mill-er, Roy J. Byrd, and Martin S. Chodorow "TheEPISTLE Text-Critiquing System."
IBM SystemsJournal~ to appear Fall, 1982.4.
Jensen, Karen Computer Generation of TopicParagraphs : Structure and Style".
Paperpresented at the ACL Session of LSA AnnualMeeting, New York City, December, 1981 (IBMResearch Report, 1982).5.
Heidorn, George E. "Augmented Phrase StructureGrammars".
In B. Nash-Webber and R.
Schank(Eds.
), Theoretical Issues in Natural LanguageProcessing, Association for ComputationalLinguistics, 1975.6.
Warriner, J. E. and F. Griffith English Grammarand Composition.
New York: Harcourt, Brace andWorld, Inc., 1963.7.
Heidorn, George E. "Experience with an easilycomputed metric for ranking alternativeparses".
Presentation at the Association forComputational Linguistics Meeting, Toronto,Canada, June 17, 1982.168
