MY TERMWinfred P. LehmannDepartment of LinguisticsThe University of TexasAustin, Texas 78712My term came at the time of the New YorkWorld Fair.
The Association, still of MT as wellas CL, was trying to crash the club that sharedprofits from the annual meetings of AFIFS.
Thesewere producing something over $20,000, a sum whichin those days would do more than pay a fraction ofone's annual overhead on an NSF grant.
ACM ofcourse was grabbing the bulk of this, but ?EEEwasn't doing badly, to Judge by the magnificenceof its Journal.
I attended the powwows of thepowers national and international.
In spite ofour run-down heels, they treated me courteously.Among other actlvltfes we Journeyed out for apreview of the World Fair exhibits.IBM's massive show, with a que~tlon-answerdemonstration as its highlight, didn't absorb allthat much attention from a group, all of whom mayhave shaken the hand of Seymour Czay and ponderedat his hilltop.
Convention memories fade aftez solong a time.
I remember best a conversation froma representative from Japan.
He expressed greatwonder at all things and beings American.
Thehead of our computation center was a tall tennis-buff.
When I gave my new friend the name hisresponse was: "Oh the great ...?"
I still haven'treconciled the possible interpretations on his useof the adjective.A couple of the more prominent members of thehardware crowd offered me a ride back to townafter our group had paid its respects to a fewmore pavilions of the Fair.
When we located theircar it turned out to be an old four-door Buick,barely hanging together.
The back seat wasclogged with computer parts, an overflow from thetrunk; I made a bit of zoom for myself among thepirated splendors and llstened to the hopefulchatter on the wonders of the new wo~id, hopingboth the Buick and the absorbed drlvez wouldpreserve me for it.Thanks to a successful outcome of the zlde nodoubt, I received issues of the elegant IEEEJournal for a few years.
The Association did geta cut out of the AFIPS pot, as I recall, but sinceit was distributed i~ accordance with membership,our 600 didn't stack up too well against the20,000 of ACM.The rest of my year was more routine.97
