Tw'SNTYYEARSOFREF~C~S*~av ind K. ~shiDepartment of Computer and Information ScienceR.
268 Moore SchoolUniversity of PennsylvaniaPhiladelphia, PA 19104As I was reflecting deeply in front of thestatue of Bodhisattva of G r ~  and Wisdom in theUniversity Muset~n, I was startled to see Jane.Having heard from Don that he had asked the oldcats to reflect on the 20 years of ACL, Jane haddecided that she should drop in on some of themto seek their advice concerning the future of ACL.
*This work is supported by the unfunded grant FSN-RND-HIN-82-57.
I wish to thank Alice, the CheshirePuss, and Lewis Carroll for their help in the pre-paration of this paper.
'~4hat brings you here?"
I asked with a grin.Jane thought for a while and said:"Would you tell me, please, which way Iought to take ACL in the future?
""That depends a good deal on where you thinkit should go ~" I replied.
"I don't much care where ,", said Jane.
"Then it doesn't matter ~c~ way you takeit," I said after prolonged reflection."
so long as I take it somewhere," Janeadded as an explanation.
"Oh, you are sure to do that," said I, "ifyou only parse long enough.
"Jane felt that this could not be denied, sojust to be friendly she decided to ask anotherquestion:'"What sort of computational linguists liveabout here?
""Well ~ in that direction lives Bonnie," Isaid waving my right paw and waving the other paw,"and in that direction lives Barbara.
Visiteither you like:they're both mad.
""But I don't want to go among mad people,"Jane remarked.
"Oh, you can't help that," said I, "we're allmad here.
I ' m mad.
You' re mad.
""How do you know I'm mad?"
said Jane.
'~fou must be," said I, "or you wouldn't havecome here.
"Jane didn't think that proved it at all.
How-ever, she went on: "And how do you know thatyou're mad?
""Well, to begin with," said I, "Don is notmad.
You grant that?
""I suppose so," said Jane.
'"~ell, then," I went on, "Don is not mad andI am not Don.
Therefore, I am mad.
"Jane didn't appear to be satisfied with thisbit of catatonic logic (quite distinct from themonotonic logic).
"I must go for a walk now and continue re-flecting," I said, as I left her, leaving my grinbehind.102
