ACL IN 1977Paul G. ChapinNational Science Foundation1800 G St. NWWashington, D.C. 20550As I leaf through my own "ACL (Historical)"file (which, I am frightened to observe, goes backto the Fourth Annual Meeting, in 1966), and focusin particular on 1977, when I was President, itstrikes me that pretty much everything significantthat happened in the Association that year was thework of other people.
Don Walker was completingthe mammoth task of transferring all of the ACL'srecords from the East Coast to the West, payingoff our indebtedness to the Center for AppliedLinguistics, and in general getting the Associa-tion onto the firm financial and organizationalfooting which it has enjoyed to this day.
DaveHays was seeing to it that the microfiche journalkept on coming, and George Heldorn Joined him asAssociate Editor that year to begin the movetoward hard copy publication.
That was the yearwhen we hitched up our organizational pants andmoved our Annual Meeting back to the Spring, aftersome years when it had been in the Fall.
JonathanAllen and his Program Committee coped admirablywith the challenge of putting on an Annual Meetingprogram less than six months after the last one.The culinary staff at the Foundry Restaurant inGeorgetown provided a banquet that I still remem-ber as delicious.AFIPS weighed in in a less constructivefashion with their demand that we enroll a member-ship of 1500 by a certain time (1982, I think) toretain our status as full-fledged members, whichwould require tripling our membership (maybe we'llmake it yet--who knows?).
They were also respon-sible for one of the non-events of the decade, theabortive founding of abacus, which was to be theScientific American of computing.
We pledged$5,000 to the start-up costs on that, payable onrequest, but they never got far enough to make therequest.What of the field?
The program for the 1977Annual Meeting shows names which are mostly stillfamiliar to all of us, speaking on topics whichwould not be out of place at the 1982 AnnualMeeting.
I take this as a sign not of stagnation,but of persevering people working on problems ofenormous complexity.One event of 1977 may end up having moreimpact on our field than anything the ACL did thatyear.
That was the year that the Sloan Foundationmade the first grants in its Particular Programin Cognitive Science.
It will be a long timebefore we know all of the results of the fermentthat Program created, but it is already abundantlyclear that one result has been a massive increasein the interested attention of theoreticallinguists to computational linguistics.
This isgoing to be beneficial to both fields, butespecially so, I think to computational linguis-tics, by keeping our attention fixed on problemsfar larger than making the program work.103
