THE REPRESENTATION OF INCONSISTENT INFORMATION IN A DYNAMIC MODEL-THEORETIC SEMANTICSDouglas B. MoranDepartment of Computer ScienceOregon State UniversityCorvallis, Oregon 97331ABSTRACTModel-theoretic semantics provides acomputationally attractive means of representingthe semantics of natural language.
However, themodels used in this formalism are static and areusually infinite.
Dynamic models are incompletemodels that include only the information needed foran application and to which information can beadded.
Dynamic models are basically approximationsof larger conventional models, but differ isseveral interesting ways.The difference discussed here is thepossibility of inconsistent information beingincluded in the model.
If a computation causes themodel to expand, the result of that computation maybe different than the result of performing thatsame computation with respect to the newly expandedmodel (i.e.
the result is inconsistent with theinformation currently in the dynamic model).Mechanisms are introduced to eliminate these local(temporary) inconsistencies, but the most naturalmechanism can introduce permanent inconsistenciesin the information contained in the dynamic model.These inconsistencies are similar to those thatpeople have in their knowledge and beliefs.
Themechanism presented is shown to be related to boththe intensional isomorphism and impossible worldsapproaches to thi~ problem.I.
INTRODUCTIONIn model-theoretic semantics, the semantics ofa sentence is represented with a logical formula,and its meaning is the result of evaluating thatformula with respect to a logical model.
Themodel-theoretic semantics used here is that givenin The proper treatment of quantification inordinar~ English (PTQ) \[Montague 1973\], but theproblems and results discussed here apply tosimilar systems and theories.From the viewpoint of natural languageunderstanding, the conventional ~oO~l-theoreticsemantics used in descriptive theories has twobasic problems: (I) the information contained in amod~ is complete and unchanging whereas theinformation possessed by a person listening to anutterance is incomplete and may be changed by theunderstanding of that utterance, and (2) the modelsare usually presumed to be infinite, whereas aperson possesses only finite information.
Dynamicmodel-theoretic semantics \[Friedman, Warren, andMoran 1978, 1979; Moran 1980\] addresses theseproblems by allowing the models to containincomplete information and to have informationadded to the model.
A dynamic model is a "goodenough" approximation to an infinite model when itcontains the finite subset of information that isneeded to determine the meanings of the sentencesactually presented to the system.Dynamic model-theoretic semantics allows theevaluation of a formula to cause the addition ofinformation to the model.
This interaction of theevaluation of a formula and the expansion of themodel produces several linguistically interestingside-effects, and these have been labelledmodel-theoretic pra~matics \[Moran 19~0\].One of these effects occurs when theinformation given by an element of the model isexpanded between the time when that element isidentified as the denotation of a sub-expression inthe formula and the time when it is used incombination with other elements.
If the expansionof the model is not properly managed, the result ofthe evaluation of such a formula can be wrong(i.e.
inconsistent with the contents of the model).Two mechanisms for maintaining the correctness ofthe denotational relationship are presented.
Inthe first, the management of the relationship isexternal to the model.
This mechanism has thedisadvantage that it involves high overhead - thedenotational relationships must  be repeatedlyverified, and unnecessary expansions of the modelmay be performed.
The second mechanism is similarto the first, but eliminates much of this overhead:it incorporates the management of the denotationalrelationship into the model by augmenting themodel's structure.It is this second mechanism that is of primaryinterest.
It was added to the system to eliminatea source of immediate errors, but it was found tointroduce long-term "errors".
These errors areinteresting because they are the kinds of errorsthat people frequently make.
The structure addedto the model permits it to contain inconsistentpieces of information (the structure of aconventional model prevents this), and themechanism provides a motivated means forcontrollin~ which inconsistencies may and may notbe entered into the dynamic model.An important subclass of the inconsistenciesprovided by this mechanism are known as intensional16substitution failure and this mechanism can beviewed as a variant of both the "impossible" worlds\[e.g.
Cresswell 1973: 39-41\] and the intenslonalisomorphism \[e.g.
Lewis 1972\] approaches.
Sinceintensionality alone does not provide an accountfor Intensional substitution failure, thismechanism provides an improved account ofpropositional attitudes.Finding the argument to which the ~-expressionis applied before evaluating the ~-expression isnot a viable solution for two reasons.
First, someh-expressions are not applied to arguments, butthey have the same problem with their denotationschanging as the model expands.
Second, having tofind the argument to which a h-expression isapplied eliminates one of the system's majoradvantages, compositionality.II.
THE PROBLEMDynamic models contain incomplete information,and the sets, relations, and functions in thesemodels can be incompletely specified (their domainsare usually incomplete).
In PTQ, some phrasestranslate to ~-expressions; other ~-expressions areused to combine and reorder subexpressions.
Thepossible denotations of these ~-expressions are thehigher-order elements of the model (sets,relations, and functions).
For example, the propername "John" translates to the logical expression(omitting intensionality for the time being):(I) \[~ P P(j)\]where P ranges over properties of individuals andhas as its denotation the set of properties thatJohn has.
The sentence "John talks" translates to:(2) \[~ P P(j)\](talk)This formula evaluates to true or false dependingon whether or not the property that is thedenotation of "talk" is in the set of propertiesthat John has.The dynamic model that is used to evaluate (2)may not contain the element that is the denotationof "talk".
If so, a problem ensues.
If theformula is evaluated left-to-right, the set ofproperties denoted by the ~ -expression isidentified, followed by the evaluation of "talk".This forces the model to expand to contain theproperty of talking.
The addition of this newproperty expands the domain of the set ofproperties denoted by "John", thus forcing theexpansion of the characteristic function of thatset to specify whether or not talking is to beincluded.
However, because the relationshipbetween the Z-expression for "John" and the set ofproperties denoted is maintained only during theevaluation of the ~-expression (there is no linkfrom the denotation back to the expression that itdenotes), there are no restrictions on how the setis to be expanded.
Thus, it is possible to definethe property of talking to have John talking and toexpand the set previously identified as beingdenoted by "John" to not include talking, or viceversa.
If such an expansion were made, theinconsistency would exist only in the evaluation ofthat particular formula, and not in the model.Subsequent evaluations of the sentence wouldrecompute the denotation of "John" and get thecorrect set of properties.This is not a problem with the direction ofevaluation - the argument to which the ~-expressionis applied may occur to the left of that~-expression, for example:(3) \[R R R(talk)\](AP P(j))(note: (3) is equivalent to (2) above).III.
THE FIRST MECHANISM - EXTERNAL MANAGEMENTThe mechanism that evaluates a formula withrespect to a model has been augmented with a tablethat contains each ~-expression and the ima6e ofits denotation in the current stage of the dynamicmodel.
When the domain of the ~-expressionexpands, the correct denotational relationship ismaintained by expanding the image in the tableusing the ~-expression, and then finding thecorresponding element in the model.
If the elementin the model that was the denotation of theh-expression was not expanded in the same way asthe image in this table, a new elementcorresponding to the expanded image is added to themodel.
This table allows two ~-expressions thatinitially have the same denotation to havedifferent denotations after the model expands.Since the expansion of elements in the model isundirected, an element that was initially thedenotation of a ~-expression may expand into anunused element.
The accumulation of unusedelements and the repeated comparisions of images inthe table to elements in the model frequentlyimposes a high overhead.IV.
THE SECOND MECHANISM - AUGMENTING THE MODELThe second mechanism for maintaining thecorrectness of the denotations of ~-expressionsbasically involves incorporating the table from thefirst mechanism into the model.
In effect, theR-expressions become meanin6ful names for theelements that they denote.
These meaningful namesare then used to restrict the expansion of thenamed elements; once an element has been identifiedas the denotation of a ~-expresslon, it remains itsdenotation.
*In the first mechanism, when the domain of two~-expressions does not contain any of the elementsthat distinguish them, they will have the samedenotation, and when such a distinguishing elementis added to the model, the denotations of the twoh-expressions will become different.
Withmeaningful names, this is not possible because thedenotational relationship between a h-expression* Meaningful names are also useful for otherpurposes, such as generating sentences from theinformation in the model and for providingprocedural - rather than declarative -representations for the information in the model\[Moran 1980\].17end its denotation in the model is permanent.Since the system cannot anticipate how the modelwill be expanded, if it is possible to add to thedomain of two h-expresslons an element that woulddistinguish their denotations, those expressionsmust be treated as having distinct denotations.Thus, all and only the logically-equivalentexpressions should be identified as having the samedenotation.
If two equivalent expressions were notso identified, their denotations would be differentelements in the model and this would allow them tobe treated differently.
For example, if "John andMary" was not identified to be the same as "Maryand John", it would be possible to have the modelcontain the inconsistent information that "John andMary talk" is true and that "Mary and John talk" isfalse.
If two non-equivalent ~-expressions wereidentified as being equivalent, they would have thesame element as their denotation.
When an elementthat would distinguish the denotations of these twoexpressions was added to the model, the expansionof the element that was serving as both theirdenotations would be incorrect for one of them andthus introduce an inconsistency.This need to correctly identl~y equivalentexpressions presents a problem because even withinthe subset of expressions that are the translationsof English phrases in the PTQ fragment, equivalenceis undec ldab le  \[Warren 1979\].
It is thisundecidability that is the basis of theintroduction of inconsistencies into the model.
Tobe useful in a natural language understandingsystem, this mechanism needs to have timelydeterminations of whether or not two expressionsare equivalent, and thus it will use techniques(including heuristics) that will produce falseanswers for some pairs of expressions.
It is thecollection of techniques that is used thatdetermines which inconsistencies will and will notbe admitted into the model.*V.
PROPOSITIONAL ATTITUDES ANDINTENSIONAL SUBSTITUTIONAL FAILUREIntensional substitution failure occurs whenone has different beliefs about intensionally-equivalent propositions.
For example, all theoremsare intenslonally-equlvalent (each is true in allpossible worlds), but it is possible to believe oneproposition that is a theorem and not believeanother.
The techniques used by the secondmechanism to identify logically-equivalent formulascan be viewed as similar to Carnap's Intensionalisomorphism approach in that it is based on findingequivalences between the constituents and thestructures of the expressions being compared.
Thismechanism can also be viewed as using an* While the fragment of English used in PTQ islarge enough to demonstrate the introduction ofinconsistent information, it is viewed as not beinglarge enough to permit interesting claims aboutwhat are useful techniques for testingequivalences.
Consequently, this part of themechanism has not been implemented.
"impossible" worlds approach: if twointensionally-equivalent formulas are notidentified as being equivalent, the mechanism"thinks" that it is possible to expand their domainto include a distinguishing element.
Since theformulas are equivalent in all possible worlds, theexpected distinguishing element must be an"impossible" world.The presence of intensional substitutionfailure is one of the important tests of a theoryof propositional attitudes.
This mechanism is acorrelate of that of Thomason \[1980\], with theaddition of meaningful names to intensional objectsserving the same purpose as Thomason's add i t iona llayer of types.VI.
REFERENCESCresswell, M. J.
(1973) Logic and Languages,Methuen and Company, London.Friedman, J., D. Moran, and D. Warren (1978) "Aninterpretation system for Montague grammar",American Journal for Computational Linguistics,microfiche 74, 23-96.Friedman, J., D. Moran, and D. Warren (1979)"Dynamic interpretations", Computer Studies inFormal Linguistics report N-16, Dept.
of Computerand Communication Sciences, The University ofMichigan; earlier version presented to the October1978 Sloan Foundation Workshop on Formal Semanticsat Stanford University.Lewis, D. (1972) "General semantics", inD.
Davidson and G. Harman (eds.)
(1972) Semanticsof Natural Language, D. Reidel, Dordrecht, 169-218;reprinted in B. H. Partee (ed.)
(1976) Monta6ueGrammar, Academic Press, New York, 1-50.Montague, R. (1973) "The proper treatment ofquantification in ordinary English" (PTQ), inJ.
Hintikka, J. Moravesik, and P. Suppes (eds.
)(1973) Approaches to Natural Language, D. Reidel,Dordrecht, 221-242; reprinted in R. Montague (1974)Formal Philosophy: Selected Papers of RichardMonta~ue, edited and with an introduction byRichmond Thomason, Yale University Press, NewHaven, 247-270.Moran, D. (1980) Model-Theoretic Pra~matics:Dynamic Models and an Application to Presuppositionand Implicature, Ph.D. dissertation, ComputerStudies in Formal Linguistics, Dept.
of" Computerand Communication Sciences, The University ofMichigan.Thomason, R. H. (1980) "A model theo~ forpropositional attitudes", Linguistics andPhilosophy, 4, I 47-70.Narren, D. (1979) Syntax and Semantics in Parsin%:An Application to Monta~ue Grammar, Ph.D.dissertation, Computer Studies in FormalLinguistics report N-18, Dept.
of Computer ancCommunication Sciences, The University of Michigan.18
