DEPENDENCIES OF DISCOURSE STRUCTURE ON THE MODALITYOF CCI~4t~ICATION: TELEPHONE vs. TELETYPEPhilip R. CohenDept.
of Computer ScienceOregon State UniversityCorvallis, OR 97331Scott FertigBolt, Beranek and Newman, Inc.Cambridge, MA 02239Kathy StarrBolt, Beranek and Newman, Inc.Cambridge, MA 02239ABSTRACTA desirable long-range goal in buildingfuture speech understanding systems would be toaccept the kind of language people spontaneouslyproduce.
We show that people do not speak to oneanother in the same way they converse intypewritten language.
Spoken language isfiner-grained and more indirect.
The differencesare striking and pervasive.
Current techniquesfor engaging in typewritten dialogue will need tobe extended to accomodate the structure of spokenlanguage.I.
INTRODUCTIONIf a machine could listen, how would we talkto it?
Tnis question will be hard to answerdefinitively until a good mechanical listener isdeveloped.
As a next best approximation, thispaper presents results of an exploration of howpeople talk to one another in a domain for whichkeyboard-based natural language dialogue systemswould be desirable, and have already been built(Robinson et al, 1980; Winograd, 1972).Our observations are based on transcripts ofperson-to-person telephone-mediated andteletype-mediated dialogues.
In thesetranscripts, one specific kind of communicativeact dominates spoken task-related discourse, butis nearly absent from keyboard discourse.Importantly, when this act is performed vocally itis never performed directly.
Since most of theutterances in these simple dialogues do not signalthe speaker's intent, techniques for inferringintent will be crucial for engaging in spokentask-related discourse.
The paper suggests how aplan-based theory of communication (Cohen andPerrault, 1979; Perrault and Allen, 1980) canuncover the intentions underlying the use ofvarious forms.This research was supported by the NationalInstitute of Education under contractUS-NIE-C-400-76-0116 to the Center for the Studyof Reading of the University of Illinois and Bolt,Beranek and Newman, Inc.II.
THE STUDYMotivated by Rubin's (1980) taxonomy oflanguage experiences and influenced by Chapanis etal.
's (1972, 1977) and Grosz' (1977) communicationmode and task-oriented dialogue studies, weconducted an exploratory study to investigate howthe structure of instruction-giving discoursedepends on the communication situation in which ittakes place.
Twenty-five subjects ("experts")each instructed a randomly chosen "apprentice" inassembling a toy water pump.
All subjects werepaid volunteer students from the Lhiversity ofIllinois.
Five "dialogues" took place in each ofthe following modalities: face-to-face, viatelephone, teletype ("linked" CRT' s) ,(non-interactive) audiotape, and (non-interactive)written.
In all modes, the apprentices werevideotaped as they followed the experts 'instructions.
Telephone and Teletype dialogueswere analyzed first since results would haveimplications for the design of speechunderstanding and production systems.Each expert participated in the experiment ontwo consecutive days, the first for training andthe second for instructing an apprentice.Subjects playing the expert role ware trained by:following a set of assembly directions consistingentirely of imperatives, assembling the pump asoften as desired, and then instructing a researchassistant.
This practice session took placeface-to-face.
Experts knew the research assistantalready knew how to assemble the pump.
Expertswere given an initial statement of the purpose ofthe experiment, which indicated that communicationwould take place in one of a n~ber of differentmodes, but were not informed of which modalitythey would communicate in until the next day.In both modes, experts and apprentices werelocated in different rooms.
Experts had a set ofpump parts that, they were told, were not to beassembled but could be manipulated.
In Telephonemode, experts communicated via a standardtelephone and apprentices communicated through aspeaker-phone, which did not need to be held andwhich allowed simultaneous two-way communication.Distortion of the expert's voice was apparent, butnot measured.Subjects in "Teletype" (TTY) mode typed theirco~mnunication on Elite Datamedia 1500 CRT28terminals connected by the Telenet computernetwork to a computer at Bolt, Beranek and Newman,Inc.
The terminals were "linked" so that whateverwas typed on one would appear on the other.Simultaneous typing was possible and did occur?Subjects were informed that their typing would notappear simultaneously on either terminal.Response times averaged 1 to 2 seconds, withoccasionally longer delays due to system load.A.
Sample Dialogue FragmentsThe following are representative fragments ofTelephone and Teletype discourse.A Telephone Fra~entS:J:"OK. Take that.
Now there's a thingcalled a plunger.
It has a red handleon it, a green bottom, and it's got a bluelid.OKOK now, the small blue cap we talked aboutbefore?J: YeahS: Put that over the hole on the sideof that tube --J: YeahS: -- that is nearest to the top, or nearestto the red handle.J: OKS: You got that on the hole?J: yeahS: Ok. now.
now, the smallest of the red pieces?J: OK"A Teletype Dialogue FragmentB:N:B:N:B:N:"fit the blue cap over the tube enddoneput the little black ring into thelarge blue cap with the hiole in it...okput the pink valve on the twD pegs inthat blue cap...ok"Communication in Telephone mode has adistinct pattern of "find the x" "put itinto/onto/over the y", in which reference andpredication are addressed in different steps.
Torelate these steps, more reliance is placed onstrategies for signalling dialogue coherence, suchas the use of pronouns.
Teletype communicationinvolves primarily the use of imperatives such as"put the x Into/onto/around the y".
Typically,the first time each object (X) is mentioned in aTrY discourse is within a request for a physicalaction.B.
A Methodolog:{ for Discourse AnalysisThis research aims to develop an adequate methodfor conducting discourse analysis that will beuseful to the computational linguist.
The methodused here integrates psychological, linguistic,and formal approaches in order to characterizelanguage use.
Psychological methods are needed insetting up protocols that do not bias theinteresting variables.
Linguistic methods areneeded for developing a scheme for describing theprogress of a discourse.
Finally, formal methodsare essential for stating theories of utteranceinterpretation in context.To be more specific, we are ultimately interestedin similarities and differences in utteranceprocessing across modes, Utterance processingclearly depends on utterance form and thespeaker ' s intent.
The utterances in thetranscripts are therefore categorized by  theintentions they are used to achieve.
Bothutterances and categorizations become data forcross-modal measures as well as for formalmethods.
Once intentions differing across modesare isolated, our strategy is to then examine theutterance forms used to achieve those intentions.Thus, utterance forms are not compared directlyacross modes; only utterances used to achieve thesame goals are compared, and it is those goalsthat are expected to vary across modes.
With formand function identified, one can then proceed todiscuss how utterance processing may differ fromone mode to another.Our plan-based theory of speech acts will be usedto explain how an utterance's intent coding can bederived from the utterance's form and the priorinteraction.
A computational model of intentrecognition in dialogue (Al~en, 1979; Cohen, 1979;Sidner et al, 1981) can then be used to mimic thetheory's assignment of intent.
Thus, the theoryof speech act interpretation will describelanguage use in a fashion analogous to the waythat a generative grammar describes how aparticular deep structure can underlie a givensurface structure.C.
Coding the TranscriptsThe first stage of discourse analysisinvolved the coding of the conm~unicator's intentin making various utterances?
Since attributionsof intent are hard to make reliably, care wastaken to avoid biasing the results.
Following theexperiences of Sinclair and Coulthard (1975), Doteet al (1978) and Mann et al (1975), a coding29scheme was developed and two people trained in itsuse.
The coders relied both on writtentranscripts and on videotapes of the apprentices'assembly.The scheme, which was tested and revised onpilot data until reliability was attained,included a set of approximately 20 "speech act"categories that ware used to label intent, and aset of "operators" and propositions that were usedto describe the assembly task, as in (Sacerdoti,1975).
The operators and propositions oftenserved as the propositional content of thecommunicative acts.
In addition to the domainactions, pilot data led us to include an action of"physically identifying the referent of adescription" as part of the scheme (Cohen, 1981).This action will be seen to be requestedexplicitly by Telephone experts, but not byexperts in Teletype mode.Of course, a coding scheme must not onlycapture the domain of discourse, it must betailored to the nature of discourse per se.
Manytheorists have observed that a speaker can use antmber of utterances to achieve a goal, and canuse one utterance to achieve a number of goals.Correspondingly, the coders could considerutterances as jointly achieving one intention (by"bracketing" them), could place an utterance inmultiple categories, and could attribute more thanone intention to the same utterance or utterancepart.It was discovered that the physical layout ofa transcript, particularly the location of linebreaks, affected which utterances were coded.
Toensure uniformity, each coder first divided eachtranscript into utterances that he or she wouldcode.
These joint "bracketings" were compared bya third party to yield a base set of codable (sic)utterance parts.
The coders could later bracketutterances differently if necessary.The first attempt to code the transcripts wasoverly ambitious -- coders could not keep 20categories and their definitions in mind, evenwith a written coding manual for reference.
Ourscheme was then scaled back -- only utterancesfitting the following categories were considered:Requests-for-assembly-actions (RAACT)(e.g., "put that on the hole".
)Requests-for-orientation-actions (RORT)(e.g., "the other way around", "the top is thebottom".
)Requests-to-pick-up (RPUP)(e.g., "take the blue base".
)Requests-for-identification (RID)(e.g., "there is a little yellowrubber".
)piece oRequests-for-other (ROTH)(e.g., requests for repetition, requests to stop,etc.
)Inform-completion(action)(e.g., "OK", "yeah", "got it".
)Label(e.g., "that's a plunger")Interrater reliabilities for each category(within each mode), measured as the nunber ofagreements X 2 divided by the ntmber of times thatcategory was coded, ware high (above 90%).
Sinceeach disagreement counted twice (against bothcategories that ware coded), agreements alsocounted twice.D.
Analysis i: Frequency of Request typesSince most of each dialogue consisted of themaking of requests, the first analysis examinedthe frequency of the various kinds of requests inthe corpus of five transcripts for each modality.Table I displays the findings.TABLE IDistribution of RequestsTelephone TeletypeType I N~mber Percent~.ACT I 73 25%RORT I 26 9%ROTH l 43 15%RPUP I 45 16%RID I i01 35%Ntm~er Percent69 51%ii 8%18 13%23 17%13 10%Total: 288 134This table supports Chapanis et al's (1972,1977) finding that voice modes were about "twiceas wordy" as non-voice modes.
Here, there areapproximately twice as many requests in Telephonemode as Teletype.
Chapenis et al examined howlinguistic behavior differed across modes in termsof measures of sentence length, message length,ntm~ber of words, sentences, messages, etc.In contrast, the present study providesevidence of how these modes differ in utterancefunction.
Identification requests are much morefrequent in Telephone dialogues than in Teletypeconversations.
In fact, they constitute thelargest category of requests-- fully 35%.
Sinceutterances in the RORT, RPUP, and ROTH categorieswill often be issued to clarify or follow up on aprevious request, it is not surprising they wouldincrease in number (though not percentage) withthe increase in RID usage.
Furthermore, it issensible that there are about the same number ofrequests for assembly actions (and hence half thepercentage) in each mode since the same "assemblywDrk" is accomplished.
~t~rufore, identificationrequests seem to be the primary requestdifferentiating the two modalities.E.
Analysis 2: First time identificationsFrequency data are important forcomputational linguistics because they indicatethe kinds of utterances a system may have to30interpret most often.
However, frequency datainclude mistakes, dialogue repairs, andrepetition.
Perhaps identification requests occurprimarily after referential misco~unication (asoccurs for teletype dialogues (Cohen, 1981)).
Onemight then argue that people would speak morecarefully to machines and thus would not need touse identification requests frequently.Alternatively, the use of such requests as a stepin a Telephone speaker's plan may truly be astrategy of engaging in spoken task-relateddiscourse that is not found in TI~ discourse.To explore when identification requests wereused, a second analysis of the utterance codingswas undertaken that was limited to "first time"identifications.
Each time a novice (rightly orwrongly) first identified a piece, thecommunicative act that caused him/her to do so wasindicated.
However, a coding was counted only ifthat speech act was not jointly present withanother prior to the novice's part identificationattempt.
Table II indicates the results for eachsubject in Telephone and Teletype modes.TABLE IISpeech Acts just preceding novlces' attempts.... tol-q-d-6ntifyl2pleces.Telephone TeletypeSUBJ RID RPUP RAACT1 9 2 12 1 i0 13 ii 1 04 9 1 05 i0 0 0RID RPUP RAACT1 2 90 2 91 2 90 6 32 6 4Subjects were classifed as habitual users ofa communicative act if, out of 12 pieces, thesubject "introduced" at least 9 of the pieces withthat act.
In Telephone mode, four of five expertswere habitual users of identification requests toget the apprentice to find a piece.
In Teletypemode, no experts were habitual users of that act.To show a "modality effect" in the use of theidentification request strategy, the ntmber ofhabitual users of RID in each mode were subjectedto the Fischer's exact probability test(hypergeometric).
Even with 5 subjects per mode,the differences across modes are significant (p =0.023), indicating that Telephone conversation perse differs from Teletype conversation in the waysin which a speaker will make first reference to anobject.F.
Analysis 3: Utterance formsThUS far, explicit identification requestshave been shown to be pervasive in Telephone modeand to constitute a frequently used strategy.
Onemight expect that, in analogous circumstances, amachine might be confronted with many of theseacts.
Computational linguistics research thenmust discover means by which a machine candetermine the appropriate response as a function,in part, of the form of the utterance.
To seejust which forms are used for our task, utterancesclassified as requests-for-identification weretabulated.
Table III presents classes of theseutterance, along with an example of each class.The utterance forms are divided into four majorgroups, to be explained below.
One class ofutterances comprising 7% of identificationrequests, called "supplemental NP" (e .g., "Putthat on the opening in the other large tube.with the round top"), was unreliably codednot c--6~-side~-6d for the analyses below.Category labels followed by "(?)
" indicate thatthe utterances comprising those categories mightalso have been issued with rising intonation.TABLE IIIKinds of Requests to Identif\[ i__nn Telephone ModeGroup CATEGORY \[example\] Per Cent of RID'sA.
ACTION-BASEDi.
THERE'S A NP(?)
28%\["there's a black o-ring(?)"\]2.
INFORM(IF ACT THEN EFFECT) 4%\["If you look at the bottom youwill see a projection"\]3.
QUESTION (EFFECT) 4%\["Do you see three small redpieces?"\]4.
INFORM(EFFECT) 3%\["you will see two blue tubes"\]B. FRAGMENTSI.
NP AND PP FRAGMENTS (?)
9%\["the smallest of the red pieces?"\]2.
PREPOSED OR INTERIOR PP (?)
6%\["In the green thing at the bottom<pause> there is a hole"\]\["Put that on the hole on the sideof that tube...that is nearestthe top" \]C. INFORM(PROPOSITION) --> REQUEST(CONFIRM)i. OBJ HAS PART 18%\["It's got a peg in it"\]2.
LISTENER HAS OBJ 5%\["Now you have two devices thatare clear plastic"\]3.
DESCRIPTION1 = DESCRIPTION2 8%\["The other one is a bubbledpiece with a blue base on it withone spout"\]31D.
NEARLY DIRECT REQUESTS\["Look on the desk"\]\["The next thing your gonna lookfor is..."\]2%1%Notice that in Telephone mode identificationrequests are never performed directly.
No speakerused the paradigmatic direct forms, e.g.
"Findthe rubber ring shaped like an O", which occurredfrequently in the written modality.
However, theuse of indirection is selective -- Telephoneexperts frequently use direct imperatives toperform assembly requests.
Only theidentification-request seems to be affected bymodality.III.
INTERPRETING INDIRECT REQUESTS FORREFERENT IDENTIFICATIONMany of the utterance forms can be analyzedas requests for identification once an  act forphysically searching for the referent of adescription has been posited (Cohen, 1981).Assume that the action IDENTIFY-REF (AGT,DESCRIPTION) has as precondition "there exists anobject 0 perceptually accessible to agt such that0 is the (semantic) reference of DESCRIPTION."
Theresult, of the action might be labelled by(IDENTIFIED-REF AGT DESCRIPTION).
Finally, themeans for performing the act will be someprocedural combination of sensory actions (e.g.,looking) and counting.
The exact combination willdepend on the description used.
The utterances inGroup A can then be analyzed as requests forIDENTIFY-REFERENT using Perrault and Allen' s(1980) method of applying plan recognition to thedefinition of communicative acts.A.
Action-based UtterancesCase 1 ("There is a NP") can be interpretedas a request that the hearer IDENTIFY-REFERENT ofNP by reasoning that a speaker's informing ahearer that a precondition to an action is truecan cause the hearer to believe the speaker wantsthat action to be performed.
All utterances thatcommunicate the speaker's desire that the hearerdo some action are labelled as requests.Using only rules about action, Perrault andAllen's method can also explain why Cases 2, 3,and 4 all convey requests for referentidentification.
Case 2 is handled by an inferencesaying that if a speaker communicates that an actwill yield some desired effect, then one can inferthe speaker wants that act performed to achievethat effect.
Case 3 is an example of questioninga desired effect of an act (e.g., "Is the garbageout?")
to convey that the act itself is desired.Case 4 is similar to Case 2, except therelationship between the desired effect and someaction yielding that effect is presumed.In all these cases, ACT = LOOK-AT, and EFFECT= "HEARER SEE X".
Since LOOK-AT is part of the"body" (Allen, 1979) of IDENTIFY-REFERENT, Allen's"body-action" inference will make the necessaryconnection, by inferring that the speaker wantedthe hearer to LOOK-AT something as part of hisIDENTIFY-REFEPdR~T act.B.
FragmentsGroup B utterances constitute the class offragments classified as requests foridentification.
Notice that "fragment" is not asimple syntactic classification.
In Case 2, thespeaker peralinguistically "calls for" a hearerresponse in the course Of some linguisticallycomplete utterance.
Such examples of parallelachievement of communicative actions cannot beaccounted for by any linguistic theory orcomputational linguistic mechanism of which ~ areaware.
These cases have been included here sincewe believe the theory should be extended to handlethem by reasoning about parallel actions.
Apotential source of inspiration for such a theorywould be research on reasoning about concurrentprograms.Case 1 includes NP fragments, usually withrising intonation.
The action to be performed isnot explicitly stated, but must be supplied on thebasis of shared knowledge about the discoursesituation -- who can do what, who can see what,what each participant thinks the other believes,what is expected, etc.
Such knowledge will beneeded to differentiate the intentions behind atraveller's saying "the 3:15 train to Montreal?
"to an information booth clerk (who is not intendedto turn around and find the train), from thosebehind the uttering of "the smallest of the redpieces?
", where the hearer is expected tophysically identify the piece.According to the theory, the speaker ' sintentions conveyed by the elliptical questioninclude i) the speaker's wanting to know whethersome relevant property holds of the referentof the description, and 2) the speaker's perhapswanting that property to hold.
Allen and Perrault(1980) suggest that properties needed to "fill in"such fragments come from shared expectations (notjust from prior syntactic forms, as is currentpractice in computational linguistics) .
Theproperty in question in our domain isIDENTIFIED-REFERENT(HEARER, NP), which is(somehow) derived from the nature of the task asone of manual assembly.
Thus, expectations havesuggested a starting point for an inference chain-- it is shared knowledge that the speaker wantsto know whether IDENTIF IED-REFERENT(~,  NP).In the same way that questioning the completion ofan action can convey a request for action,questioning IDENTIFIED-REFERENT conveys a requestfor IDENTIFY-REFERENT (see Case 3, Group A,above) .
Thus, ~ our positing anIDENTIFY-REFERENT act, and by assuming such an actis expected of the user, the inferential machinerycan derive the appropriate intention behind theuse of a noun phrase fragment.The theory should account for 48% of the32identification requests in our corpus, and shouldbe extended to account for an additional 6%.
Thenext group of utterances cannot now, and perhapsshould not, be handled by a theory ofcommunication based on reasoning about action.C.
Indirect Requests for ConfirmationGroup C utterances (as well as Group A, casesi, 2, and 4) can be interpreted as requests foridentification by a rule stipulated by Labor andFanshel (1977) -- if a speaker ostensibly informsa hearer about a state-of-affairs for which it isshared knowledge that the hearer has betterevidence, then the speaker is actually requestingconfirmation of that state-of-affairs.
InTelephone (and Teletype) modality, it is sharedknowledge that the hearer has the best evidencefor what she "has", how the pieces are arranged,etc.
~hen the apprentice receives a Group Cutterance, she confirms its truth perceptually(rather than by proving a theorem), and therebyidentifies the referents of the NP's in theutterance.The indirect request for confirmation ruleaccounts for 66% of the identification requestutterances (overlapping with Group A for 35%).This important rule cannot be explained in thetheory.
It seems to derive more from propertiesof evidence for belief than it does from a theoryof action.
As such, it can only be stipulated toa rule-based inference mechanism (Cohen, 1979),rather than be derived from more basic principles.D.
Nearly Direct RequestsGroup D utterance forms are the closest formsto direct requests for identification thatappeared, though strictly speaking, they are notdirect requests.
Case 1 mentions "Imok on", butdoes not indicate a search explicitly.
Theinterpretation of this utterance in Perrault andAllen' s scheme would require an additional"body-action" inference to yield a request foridentification.
Case 2 is literally aninformative utterance, though a request could bederived in one step.
Importantly, the frequencyof these "nearest neighbors" is minimal (3%).E.
S~maryThe act of requesting referent identificationis nearly a l~ys  performed indirectly in Telephonemode.
This being the case, inferential mechanismsare needed for uncovering the speaker's intentionsfrom the variety of forms with which this act isperformed.
A plan-based theory of communicationaugmented with a rule for identifying indirectrequests for confirmation would account for 79% ofthe identification requests in our corpus.
Ahierarchy of communicative acts (including" theirpropositional content) can be used to organizederived rules for interpreting speaker intentbased on utterance form, shared knowledge andshared expectations (Cohen, 1979).
Such arule-based system could form the basis of a futurepragmatics/discourse component for a speechunderstanding system.IV.
RELATIONSHIP TO OTHER STUDIESThese results are similar in soma ways toobservations by Ochs and colleagues (Ochs, 1979;Ochs, Schieffelin, and Pratt, 1979).
They notethat parent-child and child-child discourse isoften comprised of "sequential" constructions --with separate utterances for securing referenceand for predicating.
They suggest that languagedevelopment should be regarded as an overlaying ofnewly-acquired linguistic strategies onto previousones.
Adults will often revert to developmentallyearly linguistic strategies when they cannotdevote the appropriate time/resources to planningtheir utterances.
Thus, Ochs et al suggest, whencompetent speakers are communicating whileconcentrating on a task, one would expect to seeseparate utterances for reference and predication.This suggestion is certainly backed by our corpus,and is important for computational linguisticssince, to be sure, our systems are intended to beused in soma task.It is also suggested that the presence ofsequential constructions is tied to thepossibilities for preplanning an utterance, andhence oral and written discourse would differ inthis way.
Our study upholds this claim forTelephone vs. Teletype, but does not do so for ourWritten condition in which many requests foridentification occur as separate steps.Furthermore, Ochs et al's claim does not accountfor the use of identification requests inTeletype modality after prior referentialmiscommunication (Cohen, 1981).
Thus, it wouldseem that sequential constructions can result from(what they term) planned as well as unplanneddiscourse.It is difficult to compare our results withthose of other studies.
Chapanis et al ' sobservation that voice modes are faster andwordier than teletype modes certainly holds here.However, their transcripts cannot easily be usedto verify our findings since, for the equipmentassembly problem, their subjects were given a setof instructions that could be, and often were,read to the listener.
Thus, utterance functionwould often be predetermined.
Our subjects had toremember the task and compose the instructionsafresh.Grosz' (1977) study also cannot be directlycompared for the phenomena of interest here sincethe core dialogues that were analyzed in depthemployed a "mixed" communication modality in whichthe expert communicated with a third party byteletype.
The third party, located in the sameroom as the apprentice, vocally transnitted theexpert's communication to the apprentice, andtyped the apprentice's vocal response to theexpert.
The findings of finer-grained andindirect vocal requests would not appear underthese conditions.Thompson's (1980) extensive tabulation ofutterance forms in a multiple modality comparisonoverlaps our analysis at the level of syntax.Both Thompson's and the present study areprimarily concerned with extending the33habitability of current systems by identifyingphenomena that people use but which would beproblematic for machines.
However, our twostudies proceeded along different lines.Thompson's was more concerned with utterance formsand less with pragmatic function, whereas for thisstudy, the concerns are reversed in priority.
Ourpriority stems from the observation thatdifferences in utterance function will influencethe processing of the same utterance form.However, the present findings cannot be said tocontradict Thompson's (nor vice-verse).
Eachcorpus could perhaps be used to verify thefindings in the other.V.
CGNCI/JSIONSSpoken and teletype discourse, even used forthe same ends, differ in structure and in form.Telephone conversation about object assembly isdominated by explicit requests to find objectssatisfying descriptions.
However, these requestsare never performed directly.
Techniques forinterpreting "indirect speech acts" thus maybecome crucial for speech understanding systems.These findings must be interpreted with twocautionary notes.
First, therequest-for-identification category is specific todiscourse situations in which the topics ofconversation include objects physically present tothe hearer.
Though the same surface forms mightbe used, if the conversation is not aboutmanipulating concrete objects, different pragmaticinferences could be made.Secondly, the indirection results may occuronly in conversations between humans.
It ispossible that people do not wish to verballyinstruct others with fine-grained imperatives forfear of sounding condescending.
Print may removesuch inhibitions, as may talking to a machine.This is a question that cannot be settled untilgood speech understanding systems have beendeveloped.
We conjecture that the better thesystem, the more likely it will be to receivefine-grained indirect requests.
It appears to uspreferable to err on the side of acceptingpeople's natural forms of speech than to force theuser to think about the phrasing of utterances, atthe expense of concentrating on the problem.ACKNCWLEDGEMENTSWe would like to thank Zoltan Ueheli forconducting the videotaping, and Debbie Winograd,Rob Tierney, Larry Shirey, Julie Burke, JoanHirschkorn, Cindy Hunt, Norma Peterson, and MikeNivens for helping to organize the experiment andtranscript preparation.
Than~s also go to SharonOviatt, Marilyn Adams, Chip Bruce, Andee Rubin,Pay Perrault, Candy Sidner, and Ed Smith forvaluable discussions.VI.
REDESAllen, J. F., A plan-based approach to speech actrecognition, Tech.
Report 131, Department ofComputer Science, University of Toronto,January, 1979.Allen, J. F., and Farrault, C. R., "Analyzingintention in utterances", ArtificialIntelligence, vol.
15, 143-178, 1980.Chapanis, A., Parrish, R., N., Ochsman, R. B., andWeeks, G. D., "Studies in interactivecommunication: II.
The effects of fourcommunication modes on the Iinguisticperformance of teams during cooperativeproblem solving", Human Factors, vol.
19,No.
2, April, 1977.Chapanis, A., Parrish, R. N., Ochsman, R. B., andWeeks, G. D., "Studies in interactivecommunication: I.
The effects of fourcommunication modes on the behavior of teamsduring cooperative problem-solving", HumanFactors, vol.
14, 487-509, 1972.Cohen, P. R., "The Pragmatic/Discourse Component",in Brachman, R., Bobrow, R., Cohen, P.,Klovstad, J., Webbar, B. L., and Woods, W.A., "Research in Knowledge Representation forNatural Language Understanding", TechnicalReport 4274, Bolt, Beranek, and Nowman, Inc.,August, 1979.Cohen, P. R., "The need for referentidentification as a planned action",Proceedings of the Seventh InternationalJoint Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Vancouver, B. C., 31-36, 1981.Cohen, P. R., and Perrault, C. R., "Elements of aplan-based theory of speech acts",Cognitive Science 3, 1979, 177-212.Dore, J., No,man, D., and Gearhart, M., "Thestructure of nursery school conversation",Children ' s Language, Vol.
1, Nelson,Keith (ed.
), Gardner Press, NOw York, 1978.Grosz, B. J., "The representation and use of focusin dialogue understanding", Tech.
Report 151,Artificial Intelligence Canter, SRIInternational, July, 1977.Labor, W., and Fanshel, D., TherapeuticDiscourse, Academic Press, Now York, 1977.Mann, W. C., Moore, J.
A., Levin, J.
A., andCarlisle, J. H., "Observation methods forhtamn dialogue", Tech.
Report 151/RR-75-33,Information Sciences Institute, Marina delRey, Calif., June, 1975.Ochs, E., "Planned and Unplanned Discourse",Syntax and Semantics, Volume 12:\ ]Y i~rse  ~ Syntax, Givon, T., (ed.-~,Academic Press, Now York, 51-80, 1979.34Ochs, E., Schieffelin, B.
B., and Pratt, M. L.,"Propositions across utterances andspeakers", in Developmental Pragmatics,Ochs, E., and Schleffelin, B.
B., (eds.
),Academic Press, New York, 251-268, 1979.Perrault, C. R., and Allen, J. F., "A plan-basedanalysis of indirect speech acts", AmericanJournal of Computational Linguistics,vo~,no.--~J, 167-182, 1980.Robinson, A. E., Appelt, D. E., Grosz, B. J.,Rendrix, G. G., and Robinson, J.,"Interpreting natural-language utterances indialogs about tasks", Technical Note 210,Artificial Intelligence Canter, SRIInternational, March, 1980.Rubin, A. D., "A theoretical taxonomy of thedifferences between oral and writtenlanguage", Theoretical Issues inReading Comprehension, Spiro, R. J.-'\[Bruce, B. C., and Brewer, W. F., (eds.
),Lawrence Erlbaun Press, Hillsdale, N. J.,1980.Sacerdoti, E., "Reasoning aboutAssembly/Disassembly Actions", in Nilsson, N.J., (ed.
), Artificial Intelligence --Research and Applications, Progress Report,Artificial Intelligence Canter, SRIInternational, Menlo Park, Calif., May, 1975.Sidner, C. L., Bates, M., Bobrow, R. J., Brachman,R.
J., Cohen, P. R., Israel, D. J., Schmolze,J., Webber, B. L., and Woods, W. A.,"Research in Knowledge Representation forNatural Language Understanding", BBN Report4785, Bolt, Beranek, and Newman, Inc., Nov.,1981Sinclair, J. M., and Coulthard, R. M., Towardsan Analysis of Discourse: The\]~glish Used ---b__~ Teachers a~~p~,Oxford--~ivers ity Pres~,l--gg'5.Thompson, B. H., "Linguistic analysis of naturallanguage communication with computers",Proceedings of COLING-80, Tokyo, 190-201,1980.Winog rad, T., Understanding NaturalLanguage, Academic Press, New York, 1972.35
