OUR DOUBLE ANNIVERSARYVictor H. YngveUniversity of ChicagoChlcngo, 1111nols 60637 USAABSTRACTIn June of 1952, ten years before the foundingof the Association, the first meeting ever held oncomputational l inguistics took place.
This meet-ing, the succeeding ten years, and the first yearof  the  Assoc ia t ion  are  d i scussed .
Some thoughtsa re  o f fe red  as to  what  the  fu ture  may br ing .I THE EARLY YEARSWhen the  suggest ion  came f rom Don Walker  toce lebrate  our  twent ie th  ann iversary  by a pane ldiscussion I responded with enthusiasm at the op-portunlty for us all to reminisce.
Much has hap-pened i n  those  twenty  years  to  look  back  on,  andthere  have  been many changes :  Not many here  w i l lremember  that  found ing  meet ing .
As our  thoughts  goback to the beginnings it must also be with a noteof sadness, for some of our most illustrious earlymembers can no longer be counted among the living.Not many of you will remember either that ourmeeting here today marks another anniversary ofsignal importance for this Association.
Thirtyyears ago the first organized conference ever to beheld in the field of computational linguistics tookplace.
The coincidence of the dates is remarkable.This conference is on June 16-18, 1982, that onewas on June 17-20, 1952, overlapping two of ourthree dates.
That meeting was the M.I.T.
Confer-ence on Mechanical Translation.
It was an inter-national meeting organized by ?.
Bar-Hillsl andheld at the M.I.L faculty club.
If our associationwas born twenty years ago, this was the moment ofits conception, exactly thirty years ago.
I willtry to recall that meeting for you, as best I can,for I propose that we celebrate that anniversary aswell.For  that  very  f i r s t  meet ing  Bar -H i l le l  hadbrought  together  e ighteen  in teres ted  peop le  f romboth  coasts  and f rom En~In~d.
The f i r s t  sess ionwas an evening session open to the public.
Itconsisted of five short semi-popular talks.
Thereal business of the meeting took place the nextthree days in closed sessions in a pleasant roomoverlooking the Charles River.
We sat around akind of rectangular round-table, listened to fif-teen prepared papers or presentations, and discus-sed them wi th  a no -ho lds -bar red  g ive -and- take  cata -lyzed  by the  in tense ,  open,  and cand id ly  outspokenpersona l i ty  o f  Bar -H i l le l .
He was the  on ly  personI ever  knew who cou ld  a rgue  w i th  you ,  shout ingexc i ted ly  a t  the  top  o f  h i s  lungs  unt i l  your  backwas literally against the wall, and always withthat angelic smile on his face and you couldn'thelp llklng him through it all.
The stenotypetranscript of the dlsousslon at that first meetlngmakes interesting reading even today.
The partici-pants grappled in a preliminary but often insight-ful way with diff icult issues many of which arestill with u~As for the papers at the conference, threewere given by Erwin Relfler of the Far Eastern andRussian Institute, the University of Washington;two by Victor Oswald of the Department of GermanicLanguages, UCLA; two by Willlam Bull of the Depart-ment of Spanish, UCLA; one each by Stuart Dodd ofthe University of Washington, William Locke of theDepartment of Modern Languages, M.I.T., James Perryof the Center for International Studies, M.I.T.,Harry Huskey of the National Bureau of Standardscomputer lab at UCLA, and Jay Forrester of theDigital Computer Laboratory, M.I.T.
Two were byBar-Hillel hlmself, from M.I?T.
; and one was by A.D?
Booth of the Electronic Computer Section, Birk-beck  co l lege ,  London.
Most  o f  the  substant ia lpapers  were la ter  rev ised  fo r  pub l i ca t ion  as someo f  the  four teen  ar t i c les  in  the  vo lume Mach ine~ o f L a n ~ u ~ e s  ed i ted  by Locke and Booth ,or  in  the  pages o f  the  Journa l  Mechan ica l  T rans la -t ion ,  which was started in March of 195~.
Tworeports of the conference were subsequently pub-lished in the Journal, one by Erwln Relfler and oneby Craig Reynolds, J~  of IBM.The ten years between the first conference andthe founding of the Association were marked by manynewsworthy events and considerable technical prog-ress.
A number  o f  ind iv idua ls  and groups  enteredthe  f ie ld ,  both  here  and abroad ,  and an adequateleve l  o f  suppor t  mater ia l i zed ,  most ly  from govern-ment  agenc ies .
Th is  impor tant  cont r ibut ion  toprogress  in  our  f ie ld  shou ld  be a mat ter  o f  p r ideto  the  agenc ies  invo lved .
I t  was an essent ia lingred ient  in  the  mix  o f  e f fo r ts  that  have  put  uswhere  we are  today .
P rogress  in  that  f i r s t  tenyears  can  be es t imated  by cons ider ing  that  up tothe  t ime o f  the  found ing  o f  the  Assoc ia t ion  thejournal ~ ~ p u b l l s h e d  52 arti-cles, 187 abstracts of the llterature, and ran to532 pages.92To rev iew a l l  o f  that  research  adequate lywou ld  be a la rge  task ,  and one that  I w i l l  notunder take  here .
But  I shou ld  l i ke  to  say  that  i tincludes a number of  cases where computer tech-niques have played an essential role in linguisticresearch.
Just one example is the work on thedepth hypothesis during the summer of 1959, whichowes everything to  the heuristic advantages ofcomputer model ing  in linguistics.
Those linguistswho still scorn or ignore computational linguisticsshou ld  cons ider  care fu l ly  those  many examples  o fthe efflcaoy of  computer methods in their dlsoi-pllne.II FOUNDING THE SOCIETYToward the  end of  those  ten  years  the  need fo ra pro fess iona l  soc ie ty  became c lear .
We d id  keepin touch byphone and letter, and ad hoc committeeshad been formed fo r  var ious  purposes .
But most  ofa l l  we needed a fo rmal  o rgan izat ion  to  br ing  adegree  o f  o rder  in to  the  process  o f  p lann ing  meet -ings .
We cou ld  make p lans  through our  in fo rmalcontacts ,  but  there  was a lways  the  prob lem that  newgroups  or  ex is t ing  organ izat ions  wou ld  go aheadw i th  p lans  o f  the i r  own fo r  meet ings  too  soonbefore  or  a f te r  our  own.
There were a l so  requestsf rom sponsor ing  agenc ies  fo r  sympos ia  rev iewingprogress  and encourag ing  cooperat ion  between thegrowing  number of  federa l ly  suppor ted  pro jec ts .
Wewanted regu lar  meet ings  but  we res i s ted  the  idea  o fhav ing  too  many.As an example of the situation we faced, Ireceived a let ter  early in 1959 from the Associa-tion for Computing Machinery, who were planning aNational Conference to be held at M.I.~ September1-3 ,  1959.
They asked  me i f  I thought  that  peop leconnected with mechanical translation would llke tohave a session at the meeting or meet concurrently.I said I didn't know, but agreed to write to somepeople in the field about it.
I did write, offer-ing to set up a session or a separate meeting ifothers wanted me to do it, but expressing thethought that there were very few of us doing re-search in the field and that there now were anumber of organizations that would llke to includemechanical translation papers in their programs tobuild interest and attendance.
It was a hot topicat the time.We did not take up the ACM in their kindoffer.
Had we done so, we might today be a SpecialInterest Group of the AC~l, and that would havehindered our close ties to linguistics.In any event, the people at UCLA organized aNational Symposium on Machine Translation, whichtook place on February 2-5, 1960, Just five monthsafter the date of the ACM meeting, and five monthsafter that, on July 18-22, 1950, a meeting offederally sponsored machine translation workers,organized by Harry Josselson and supported by NSFand ONR was held at the Princeton Inn, Princeton,New Jersey.
The next year, on April q-7, 1961, asimilar conference was held st Georgetown Univer-sity, and Just five months after that, on September5-8, 1961, the National Physical Laboratory inTeddlngton, England hosted an International Confer-ence on Machine Translation of Languages and ?p-plied Language Analysis.
SomethlnE clearly had tobe done .
So the  s tage  had been set ,  and n inemonths later, on June 13, 1962, at another confer-ence organized by the irrepressible Harry Josselsonat the Princeton Inn, we finally founded a profes-sional society: The Association for Machine Trans-lation and Computational Linguistics, renamed sixyears later the Association for Computational Lin-gulstlca.I have not been able to locate a llst of ourcharter members.
I am sure one exists.
The offi-cers for the first year were Victor H. Yngve,President; David G. Hays, Vice-Presldent; and HarryH.
Josselson, Secretary-Treasurer.
Mrs. Ida Rhodes,Paul Garvln, and Wlnfred P. Lehmann were members ofthe  Execut ive  Counc i l .
R ichard  See ,  Anthony  G.Oettinger, and Sydney M. Lamb were members of theNominatlngCommlttee.
Our announced purpose was toencourage high professional standards by aponsoringmeet ings ,  pub l i ca t ion ,  and o ther  exchange of  ln /o r -mat ion .
I t  was  to  prov ide  a means  o f  do ing  to -gether  what  ind iv idua ls  cannot  do a lone .Many of us had hoped for a truly internationalassociation.
We felt this would be particularlyappropriate for an organization involved in tryingto improve the means for international communica-tion through mechanical translation.
But the costof travel, travel restrictions from some countries,and various other practical problems stood in theway.
We became an in ternat iona l  but  p redominant lyAmer ican assoc ia t ion .
We dec ided  from the beg in -n ing  to  meet  in  a l te rnate  years  in  con junct ion  w i tha major computer conference and a major linguisticsconference,My year of tenure as President was uneventful,or so it seemS.
It is difficult to extract oneyear of memories twenty years ago.
I do remember atrip to Denver to see about arrangements for ourfirst annual meetlng at the Denver Hilton, to takeplace August 25 and 26, 1963, the two days immedi-ately preceding the ACM National Conference.
Thelocal arrangements people for that meeting weremost helpful.
The program was put together byHarry Josselson.
There were thirty-four paperscovering a wide variety of topics including syntac-tic analysis, semantics, particulars of languages,theoretical linguistics, research procedures, andresearch techniques.
Abstracts for the thirty fourpapers were published i n ~ ~ ,Yol.
7, No.
2, and a group photograph of some ofthe delegates attending appeared in Vol.
8, No.
I.Look ing  a t  th i s  photograph and those  taken  at-earlier conferences and published in earlier issuesinvokes considerable nostalgia for those days.III THE FUTUREI do remember my presidential address, for itstressed some matters that I thought were particu-95l a r ly  impor tant  fo r  the fu ture .
These thoughtswere a l so  embodied in  a longer  paper  read to  theAmerican Ph i losoph ica l  Soc iety  three months la ter ,in  November 1963, and pub l i shed  the  next  year  bythat  o rgan izat ion .
I should  l i ke  to  quote  a fewsentences for  they are par t i cu la r ly  appropr iate  a tth i s  point:?
A new f ie ld  o f  research  has grown up whichrevo lves  about languages, computers, and symbolicprocesses.
This sometimes is called computationalllnguistlcs, mechanical linguistics, informationprocess ing ,  symbol man ipu la t ion ,  and so on.
Noneof the names are really adequate.
The implicationsOf this research for the future are far-reachlng.Imagine what it would mean if we bad computerprograms that could actually understand English.Besides the obvious practical implications, theimplications for our understanding of language aremost exciting.
This research promises to give usnew insights into the way in which languages conveyinformation, the way in which people understandEnglish, the nature of thought processes, the na-ture of  our theor ies ,  ideas ,  and pre jud ices ,  andeventua l ly  a deeper  unders tand ing  o f  ourse lves .Perhaps one of the last frontiers of man~s under-standing of his environment is his understandlr~ofman and his mental processes.
"This new f ie ld  touches, with var ious  degreesof  over lap and in teract ion ,  the a lready we l l -es tab-l i shed  d iverse  f ie lds  of  l i ngu is t i cs ,  psychology,logic, philosophy, information theory, circuittheory, and computer design.
The interaction withl inguistics has already produced several smallrevolutions in methodology, point of view, insightinto language, and standards of rigor and exact-ness.
It appears that before we are done, linguis-tics will be completely revolutionized.
"This  quotat ion  i s  par t i cu la r ly  apt  because Is t i l l  be l ieve  that  before we are done l ingu is t i csw i l l  be complete ly  revo lu t ion ized .
Let me explain.First, the difficulties in mechanlzlng translationhad already at that early date called attention tofundamental inadequacies in linguistic theory,traditional or transformational, it makes no dif-ference.
Second, the depth  hypothes is  and theproblems raised in trying to square it with currentlinguistic theory threw further doubt on the scien-tific integrity of linguistics.
And third, thedepth hypothes is  also provided an important  c lue asto how the Inadequacies in linguistic theory mighteventually be overcome.
I have spent the last twodecades or so fol lowing this lead and trying tofind a more satisfactory foundation for l inguis-tics.
The following is a brief progress report tothe parent  body, as i t  were.
A recent  wr i t tenrepor t  may be found in  the  J a n u a ~ S e r i e sMajor volume 97, ed i ted by F lo r ian  Coulmas.Modern scientific linguistics, since its be-Elnnlng a century and a half ago, has been charac-terized by three  cent ra l  goa ls  (1) that  i t  s tudylanguage, (2) that it be scientific, and (3) thatit seek explanations in terms of people.
It turnsout that these goals are contradictory and mutuallyincompatible, and this is the underlying reason forthe most serious Inadequacies in linguistic theor~Linguistics, and that includes computationallinguistics, is faced with two mutually exclusivealternatives.
We can either accept the first goaland study language by the methods of grammar, or wecan accept the second and third goals and seekexplanations of communicative phenomena in terms ofpeople by the methods ofsclence.We cannot continue with business a usual andtry to have it both ways.
Basically this is be-cause science studies real objects given in advancewhereas grammar studies objects that are onlycreated by a point of vlew, as Saussure realized.Their study rests on a special assumption thatplaces grammar outside of science.
To try to haveit both ways also leads to the fallacies of thepsychologlcal and social reality of grammar.The full implications of this fork in the roadthat linguistics faces is Just now sinking in.Only the second alternative is viable, sciencerather than grammar.
This means we will have togive up the two thousand year grammatical traditionat the core of linguistic thought and reconstructthe discipline on well-known scientific principlesinstead.
This will open up vast opportunities forresearch to uncover that essential and unique partof human nature, how people communicate.
We maythen finally be able to do all those things we havebeen trying so hard to do.In  th i s  necesaary  reconst ruc t ion  I fo reseethat computat ional  l i ngu is t i cs  i s  dest ined to playan essent ia l  ro le .94
