Ill-Formed and Non-Standard Language ProblemsStan KwasnyComputer Science DepartmentIndiana UniversityBloomington, IN 47405AbstractProspects look good for making real improve-ments in Natural Language Processing systems withregard to dealing with unconventional inputs in apractical way.
Research which is expected to havean influence on this progress as well as somepredictions about accomplishments in both theshort and long term are discussed.i.
Intr~ductio~Developing Natural Language Understandingsystems which permit language in expected forms inanticipated environments having a well-definedsemantics is in many ways a solved problem withtoday's technology.
Unfortunately, few interest-ing situations in which Natural Language is usefullive up to this description.
Even a modicum ofmachine intelligence is not pcsslble, we believe,without continuing the pursuit for more sophisti-cated models which deal with such problems andwhich degrade gracefully (see Hayes and Reddy,1979).Language as spoken (or typed) breaks the"rules".
Every study substantiates this fact.Malhotra (1975) discovered this in his studies oflive subjects in designing a system to supportdecision-making activities.
An extensive investi-gation by Thompson (1980) provides further evi-dence that providing a grammar of "standardEnglish" does not go far enough in meeting theprospective needs of the user.
Studies by Fromkinan~ her co-workers (1980), likewise, provide newinsights into the range of errors that can occurin the use of language in various situations.Studies of this sort are essential in identifyingthe nature of such non-standard usages.But more than merely anticipating user inputsis required.
Grammaticality is a continuumphenomenon with many dimensions.
So is intelligi-bility.
In hearing language used in a strangeway, we often pass off the variation as dialectic,or we might unconsciously correct an errorfulutterance.
Occasionally, we might not understandor even misunderstand.
What are the rules (zeta-rules, etc.)
under which we operate in doing this?Can introspection be trusted to provide the proper~erspecCives?
The results of at least oneinvestigator argue against the use of intuitionsin discovering these rules (Spencer, 1973).
Com-putational linguists must continue to conduct stu-dies and consider the results of studies conductedby others.~.
Persoective$Several perspectives exist which may giveinsights on the problem.
We present some ofthese, not to pretend to exhaustively summarizethem, but to hopefully stimulate interest amongresearchers to pursue one or more of these viewsof what is needed.Certain telegraphic forms of language occurin situations where two or more speakers of dif-ferent languages must communicate.
A pidgin formof language develops which borrows features fromeach of the languages.
Characteristically, it haslimited vocabulary and lacks several grammaticaldevices (like number and gender, for example) andexhibits a reduced number of redundant features.This phenomenon can similarly he observed in somestyles of man-machine dialogue.
Once the userachieves some success in conversing with themachine, whether the conversation is being con-ducted in Natural Language or not, there is a ten-dency to continue to use those forms and wordswhich were previously handled correctly.
Theresult is a type of pidginization between themachine dialect and the user dialect which exhi-bits pidgin-like characteristics: limited vocabu-lary, limited use of some grammatical devices,etc.
It is therefore reasonable to study theseforms of language and to attempt to accomodatethem in some natural way within our languagemodels.
Woods (1977) points out that the use ofNatural Language:"... does not preclude the introduction ofabbreviations and telegraphic shorthands forcomplex or high frequency concepts -- theability of natural English to accommodate suchabbreviations is one of its strengths."
(p.18)Specialized sublanguages can often be identifiedwhich enhance the quality of the communication andprove to be quite convenient especially to fre-quent users.164Conjunction is an extremely common and yetpoorly understood phenomenon.
The wide variety ofways in which sentence fragments may be joinedargues against any approach which attempts toaccount for conjunction within the same set  ofrules used in processing other sentences.
Also,constituents being joined are often fragments,rather than complete sentences, and, therefore,any serious attempt to address the problem of con-Junction must necessarily investigate ellipsis aswell.
Since conjunction-handling involvesellipsis-handling, techniques which treat non-standard linguistic forms must explicate both.~.
TechnicuesWhat approaches work well in such situta-tions?
Once a non-standard language form has beenidentified, the rules of the language processingcomponent could simply be expanded to accomodatethat new form.
But that approach has limitationsand misses the general phenomenon in most cases.Dejong (1979) demonstrated that wire servicestories could be "skimmed" for prescribed conceptswithout much regard to gramn~aticality or accepta-bility issues.
Instead, as long as coherencyexisted among the individual concepts, the overallcontent of the story could be summarized.
Thewhole problem of addressing what to do with non-standard inputs was finessed because of the con-text.Techniques based on meta-rules have beenexplored by various researchers.
Kwasny (1980)investigated specialized techniques for dealingwith cooccurrence violations, ellipsis~ and con-junction within an ATN gra~mlar.
Sondheimer andWeischedel (1981) have generalized and refinedthis approach by making the meta-rules more expli-cit and by designing strategies which manipulatethe rules of the grammar using meta-rules.Other systems have taken the approach thatthe user should play a major role in exercisingchoices about the interpretations proposed by thesystem.
With such feedback to the user, no time-consuming actions are performed without his appro-val.
This approach works well in databaseretrieval tasks.A.
Near and Long Ter~ ProspectsIn the short term, we must look to what weunderstand and know about the language phenomenaand apply those techniques that appear promising.Non-standard language forms appear as errors inthe expected processing paths.One of the functions of a style-checking pro-gram (for example the EPISTLE system by Miller etal., 1981) is to detect and, in some cases,correct certain types of errors made by the authorof a document.
Since such programs are expectedto become more of a necessary part of any authorsupport system, a great deal of research can beexpected to be directed at that problem.A great deal of research which deals witherrors in language inputs comes from attempts toprocess continuous speech (see, for example,Bates, 1976).
The techniques associate with non-left-to-right processing strategies should proveuseful in narrowing the number of legal alterna-tives to be attempted when identifying andcorrecting some types of error.
It is quite con-ceivable that an approach to this problem thatparallels the work on speech understanding wouldbe very fruitful.
Note that this does not involveinventing new methods, but rather borrows fromrelated studies.
The primary impediment, at themoment, to this approach, as with some of theother approaches mentioned, is the time involvedin considering viable alternatives.
As theseproblems are reduced over the next few years, Ifeel that we should see Natural Language systemswith greatly improved communication abilities.In the long term, some form of languagelearning capability will be critical.
Both rulesand meta-rules will need to be modifiable.
Thesystem behavior will need to improve and adapt tothe user over time.
User models of style and pre-ferred forms as well as common mistakes will bedeveloped as a necessary part of such systems.
Asspeed increases, more opportunity will be avail-able for creative architectures such as was seenin the speech projects, but which still respondwithin a reasonable time frame.Finally, formal studies of user responseswill need to be conducted in an ongoing fashion toassure that the systems we build conform to userneeds.~.
Reference~Bates, M., "Syntax in Automatic Speech Understand-ing," A~Journa lo fComoutat iona l  Lingu~s-J~ ,  Microfiche 45, 1976.DeJong, G.F., "Skimming Stories in Real Time: AnExperiment in Integrated Understanding," Techni-cal Report 158, Yale University, Computer Sci-ence Department, 1979.Fromkin, V.A., ed., Errors in Linguistic perfgr-man99: SliPs of the Tongue, Ear, Pen, and Hand,Academic Press, New York, 1980.Hayes, P.J., and R. Reddy, "An Anatomy of GracefulInteraction in Spoken and Written Man-MachineCommunication," Technical Report, Carnegie-Mellon University, August, 1979.165Kwasny, S.C., ,Treatment of Ungrammatical andExtra-grammatical Phenomena in Natural LanguageUnderstanding Systems," Ph.D. Thesis, Ohio StateUniversity, 1980, (available through the IndianaUniversity Linguistics Club, Bloomington, Indi-ana).Kwasny, S.C., and N.K.
Sondheimer, "RelaxationTechniques for Parsing Ill-Formed Input," Ameri-can ~ournal of Computational Linguistics, Vol.7, No.
2, April-June, 1981, 99-108.Malhotra, A., "Design Criteria for a Knowledge-Based English Language System for Management: AnExperimental Analysis," MAC TR 146, Cambridge,~ ,  M.I.T., February, 1975.Miller, L.A., G.E.
Heidorn, and K. Jensen, "Text-Critiquing with the EPISTLE System: An Author'sAid to Better Syntax," Proceedings of theNational Computer Conference, AFIPS Press,Montvale, NJ, 1981.Sondheimer, N.K., and R.M.
Weischedel, "A Computa-tional Linguistic Approach to UngrammaticalityBased on Meta-Rules" Annual Meetinz of theLinguistic society of America New York, NY,December, 1981.Spencer, N.J., "Differences Between Linguists andNonlinguists in Intuitions of Grammaticality-Acceptability" Journal of Ps~cholin~uisticResearch, 2, 2, 1973, 83-99.Thompson, B.B., "Linguistic Analysis of NaturalLanguage Communication with Computers," Proceed-~ngs of the Eighth International Conference o_An~emputational ~inguistic~, Tokyo, October, 1980,190-201.Weischedel, R.M., and N.K.
Sondheimer, "A Frame-work for Processing Ill-Formed Input," TechnicalMemorandum H-00519, Sperry-Univac, Blue Bell,PA, October 16, 1981.Woods, W.A., "A Personal View of Natural LanguageUnderstanding," SIGART Newsletter, No.
61,February, 1977, 17-18.166
