BUILDING NON-NORMATIVE SYSTEMS - THE SEARCH FOR ROBUSTNESSAN OVERVIEWMitchell P. MarcusBell LaboratoriesMurray Hill, New Jersey 07974Many natural language understanding systemsbehave much like the proverbial high schoolenglish teacher who simply fails to understand anyutterance which doesn't conform to that teacher'sinviolable standard of english usage.
But whilethe teacher merely pretends not to understand, oursystems really don't.The teacher consciously stonewalls whenconfronted with non-standard usage to prescribequite rigidly what is acceptable linguistic usageand what is not.
What is so artificial about thisbehavlour, of course, is that our implicitlinguistic models are descriptive and notprescriptive; they model what we expect, not whatwe demand.
People are quite good at understandinglanguage which they, when asked, would consider tohe non-standard in some way or other.Our programs, on the other hand, tend to bevery rigid.
They usually fail to degradegracefully when their internal models of syntax,semantics or pragmatlcs are violated by userinput.
In essence, the models of linguistic well-formedness which these programs embody becomenormative; they prescribe quite rigidly what isconsidered standard linguistic usage and whatisn't.Old solutions to this problem includeextending a system's linguistic coverage orintentionally excluding linguistic constraintsthat are occasionally violated by speakers.
Butneither of these approaches changes thefundamental situation - that when confronted withinput which fails to conform to the systembuilder's expectations, however broad and howeverloose, the system will entirely reject the input.Furthermore, these techniques bar a system fromutilizing the fact that people normally do obeycertain linguistic standards, even if they violatethem on occasion.More recently, a range of approaches havebeen investigated that allow a system to behavemore robustly when confronted with input whichviolates its designer's expectations aboutstandard english usage.
Most of this work hasbeen within the realm of syntax.
These techniquesallow grammars to he descriptive without beingnormative.
This panel focuses on these techniquesfor building what might be termed non- normativesystems.
Panelists were asked to consider thefollowing range of issues:Are there different kinds of non-standardusage?
Candidates for a subclasslficatlon of non-standard usage might include the telegraphiclanguage of massages and newspaper headlines; theinformal colloquial use of language, even byspeakers of the standard dialect; non-standarddialects; plain out-and-out grammatical errors;and the specialized sublanguage used by experts ina given domain.
To what extent do these variousforms have different properties, and are thereindependently characterizable dimensions alongwhich they differ?
What kinds of generalizationscan be expressed about each of them individuallyor about non-standard usage in general?What are the techiques for dealing with non-standard input robustly?
A range of techniqueshave been discussed in the literature which can beinvoked when a system is faced with input which isoutside the subset of the language that itsgrammar describes.
These include~ (a) the use ofspecial "un-grammatlcal" rules, which explicitlyencode facts about non-standard usage; (b) the useof "meta-rules" to relax the constraints imposedby classes of rules of the grammar; (c) allowingflexible interaction between syntax and semantics,so that semantics can directly analyze substrlngsof syntactic fragments or individual words whenfull syntactic analysis fails.
How well do thesetechniques, and others, work with respect to thedimensions of non-standard input discussed above?What are the relative strengths and weaknesses ofeach of these techniques?To what extent are each of these techniquesuseful if one's goal is not to build a systemwhich understands input, even if non-standard; butrather to build an explicitly normative systemwhich can either (i) pinpoint ' grammatical errors,or (2) correct errors after pinpointing them?
(Ironically, a system can be normative in a usefulway only if it can understand what the user meantto say.
)Are there more general approaches to buildingsystems that degrade gracefully that can beapplied to this set of problems?And finally, what the near- and long-termprospects for application ~f' ~lese techniques topractical working systems?152
