THE TEXT SYSTEM FO~NATURAL LANGUAGE GENERATION:AN OVERVIEW*Kathleen R. M::KeownDept.
of Computer & Information ScienceThe Moore SchoolUniversity of PennsylvaniaPhiladelphia, Pa. 19104ABSTRACTComputer-based generation of natural languagerequires consideration of two different types ofproblems: i) determining the content and textualshape of what is to be said, and 2) transformingthat message into English.
A computationalsolution to the problems of deciding what to sayand how to organize it effectively is proposedthat relies on an interaction between structuraland semantic processes.
Schemas, which encodeaspects of discourse structure, are used to guidethe generation process.
A focusing mechanismmonitors the use of the  schemas, providingconstraints on what can be said at any point.These mechanisms have been implemented as part ofa generation method within the context of anatural language database system, addressing thespecific problem of responding to questions aboutdatabase structure.1.0 INTRODUCTIONDeciding what to say and how to organize iteffectively are two issues of particularimportance to the generation of natural languagetext.
In the past, researchers have concentratedon local issues concerning the syntactic andlexical choices involved in transforming apre-determined message into natural language.
Theresearch described here ~nphasizes a computationalSolution to the more global problems ofdetermining the content and textual shape of whatis to be said.
~re  specifically, my goals havebeen the development and application of principlesof discourse structure, discourse coherency, andrelevancy criterion to the computer generation oftext.
These principles have been realized in theTEXT system, reported on in this paper.The main features of the generation methodused in TEXT include I) an ability to selectrelevant information, 2) a system for pairingrhetorical techniques (such as analogy) withdiscourse purv~ses (such as defining terms) and3) a focusing mec~mnism.
Rhetorical techniques,which encode aspects of discourse structure, guidethe selection of information for inclusion in thetext from a relevant knowledge poq~l - a subset of*This work was partially supported by NationalScience ~Dundation grant #MCS81-07290.the knowledge base which contains informationrelevant to the discourse purpose.
The focusingmechanism helps maintain discourse coherency.
Itaids in the organization of the message byconstraining the selection of information to betalked about next to that which ties in with theprevious discourse in an appropriate way.
Theseprocesses are described in more detail aftersetting out the framework of the system.2.0 APPLICATIONIn order to test generation principles, theTEXT system was developed as part of a naturallanguage interface to a database system,addressing the specific problem of generatinganswers to questions about database structure.Three classes of questions have been considered:questions about information available in thedatabase, requests for definitions, and questionsabout the differences between database entities\[MCKE(3WN 80\].
In this context, input questionsprovide the initial motivation for speaking.Although the specific application ofanswering questions about database structure wasused primarily for testing principles about textgeneration, it is a feature that many users ofsuch systems would like.
Several experiments(\[MALHOTRA 75\], \[TENNANT 79\]) have shown thatusers often ask questions to familiarizethemselves with the database structure beforeproceeding to make requests about the databasecontents.
The three classes of questionsconsidered for this system were among those shownto be needed in a natural language databasesystem.Implementation of the TEXT system for naturallanguage generation used a portion of the Officeof Naval Research (ONR) database containinginformation about vehicles and destructivedevices.
Some examples of questions that can beasked of the system include:> What is a frigate?> What do you know about submarines?> What is the difference between aand a kitty hawk?whisky113The kind of generation of which the system iscapable is illustrated by the response itgenerates to question (A) below.A) ~at  kind of data do you have?All entities in the (INR database have DBattributes R~MARKS.
There are 2 types ofentities in the ONR database: destructivedevices and vehicles.
The vehicle has DBattributes that provide information onSPEED-INDICES and TRAVEL-MEANS.
Thedestructive device has DB attributes thatprovide information on LETHAL-INDICES.TEXT does not itself contain a facility forinterpreting a user's questions.
Questions mustbe phrased using a simple functional notation(shown below) which corresponds to the types ofquestions that can be asked .
It is assumed thata component could be built to perform this type oftask and that the decisions it must make would notaffect the performance of the generation system.I.
(definition <e>)2.
(information <e>)3.
(differense <el> <e2>)where <e>, <el>, <e2> represent entities in thedatabase.3.0 SYSTEM OVERVIEWIn answer ing a question about databasestructure, TEXT identifies those rhetoricaltechniques that could be used for presenting anappropriate answer.
On the basis of the inputquestion, semantic processes produce a relevantknowledge pool.
A characterization of theinformation in this pool is then used to select asingle partially ordered set of rhetoricaltechniques from the various possibilities.
Aformal representation of the answer (called a"message" ) is constructed by selectingpropositions from the relevant knowledge poolwhich match the rhetorical techniques in the givenset.
The focusing mechanism monitors the matchingprocess; where there are choices for what to saynext (i.e.
- either alternative techniques arepossible or a single tec~mique matches severalpropositions in the knowledge pool), the focusingmechanism selects that proposition which ties inmost closely with the previous discourse.
Oncethe message has been constructed, the systempasses the message to a tactical component\[BOSSIE 81\] which uses a functional grammar\[KAY 79\] to translate the message into English.4.0 KNOWLEDGE BASEAnswering questions about the structure ofthe database requires access to  a high-leveldescription of the classes of objects ino thedatabase, their properties, and the relationshipsbetween them.
The knowledge base used for theTEXT system is a standard database model whichdraws primarily from representations developed byChen \[CHEN 76\], the Smiths \[SMITH and SMITH 77\],Schubert \[SCHUBERT et.
al.
79\], and Lee andGerritsen \[LEE and GERRITSEN 78\].
The mainfeatures of TEXT's knowledge base are entities,relations, attributes, a generalization hierarchy,a topic hierarchy, distinguishing descriptiveattributes, supporting database attributes, andbased database attributes.Entities, relations, and attributes are basedon the Chen entity-relationship model.
Ageneralization hierarchy on entities\[SMITH and ~94ITH 77\], \[LEE and GERRITSEN 78\], anda to~ic hierarch Y on attributes\[SCHUBERT et.
al.
79\] are also used.
In the topichierarchy, attributes such as MAXIMUM SPEED,MINIMUMSPEED, and ECONOMIC SPEED are gene?alizedas SPEED INDICES.
In -the general izationhierarchy,--entities such as SHIP and SUBMARINE aregeneralized as WATER-GOING VEHICLE.
~hegeneralization hierarchy includes bothgeneralizations of entities for which physicalrecords exist in the database (database entityclasses) and sub-types of these entities.
Thesub-types were generated automatically by a systemdeveloped by McCoy \[MCCOY 82\].An additional feature of the knowledge baserepresents the basis for each split in thehierarchy \[LEE and GERRITSEN 78\].
Foreneralizations of the database entity classes,partltlons are made on the basis of differentattributes possessed, termed sup\[~or tin~ dbattributes.
For sub-t~pes of the database entit-yclasses, partitions are made on the basis ofdifferent values possessed for given, sharedattributes, termed based db attributes.~dditional d esc r i pt ive--"--in fo"~a t ion thatdistinguishes sub-classes of an entity arecaptured in ~ descriptive attributes(DDAs).
For generalizati6ns Of 6he databaseentity classes, such DDAs capture real-worldcharacteristics of the entities.
Figure 1 showsthe DDAs and supporting db attributes for twogeneralizations.
(See \[MCCOY 82\] for discussionof information associated with sub-types ofdatabase entity classes).114(ATER-VEHIC 9'rP&VEI-MEDIUM/ ~DE~A~R (DDA) SURFACE (DDA)-DRAFT,DISPLACEMENT -DEPTH, MAXIMHM(s~r t ing  dbs) SUBM<GED SPEED(supporting dbs)FIGURE i DDAS and supporting db attributes5.0 SELECTING RELEVANT INFOPJ~ATIONThe first step in answering a question is tocircumscribe a subset of the knowledge basecontaining that information which is relevant tot~ question.
This then provides limits on whatinformation need be considered when deciding whatto say.
All information that might be relevant tothe answer is included in the partition, but allinformation in the partition need not be includedin the answer.
The partitioned subset is calledthe relevant ~ow~l~_~e pool.
It is similar towhat Grosz has called mglo-6~ focus" \[GROSZ 77\]since its contents are focused throughout thecourse of an answer.The relevant knowledge pool is constructed bya fairly simple process.
For requests fordefinitions or available information, the areaaround the questioned object containing theinformation immediately associated with the entity(e.g.
its superordinates, sub-types, andattributes) is circumscribed and partitioned fromthe remainir~ knowledge base.
For questions abouttk~ difference between entities, the informationincluded in the relevant knowledge pool depends onhow close in the generalization hierarchy t~ twoentities are.
For entities that are very similar,detailed attributive information is included.
Forentities that are very different, only genericclass information is included.
A combination ofthis information is included for entities fallingbetween t~se two extremes.
(See \[MCKEOWN 82\] forfurther details).6.0 R~LETORICAL PREDICATES~%etorical predicates are the means which aspeaker has for describing information.
~heycharacterize the different types of predicatingacts s/he may use and delineate the structuralrelation between propositions in a text.
someexamples are "analogy" (comparison with a familiarobject), "constituency" (description of sub-partsor sub-types), and "attributive" (associatingproperties with an entity or event).
Linguisticdiscussion of such predicates (e.g.
\[GRIMES 75\],\[SHEPHERD 26\]) indicates that some combinationsare preferable to others.
Moreover, Grimes claimsthat predicates are recursive and can be used toidentify the organization of text on any level(i.e.
- proposition, sentence, paragraph, orlonger sequence of text), alti~ugh he does notshow how.I have examined texts and transcripts andhave found that not only are certain combinationsof rhetorical tec~miques more likely than others,certain ones are more appropriate in somediscourse situations than others.
For example, Ifound that objects were frequently defined byemploying same combination of the following means:(i) identifying an item as a memDer of somegeneric class, (2) describing an object'sfunction, attributes, and constituency (eitherphysical or class), (3) making analogies tofamiliar objects, and (4) providing examples.These techniques were rarely used in random order;for instance, it was common to identify an item asa member of some generic class before providingexamples.In the TEXT system, these types of standardpatterns of discourse structure have been capturedin schemas associated with explicit discoursepurposes.
The schemas loosely identify normalpatterns of usage.
The~ are not intended to serveas grammars of text.
The schema shown be-~~rves  the purposes o~ providing definitions:Identification Schemaidentification (class&attribute/function)\[analogy~constituency~attributive\]*\[particular-illustration~evidence\]+{amplification~analogy~attributive}{particular-illustration/evidence}Here, "{ \]" indicates optionality, "/"indicates alternatives, "+" indicates that theitem may appear l-n times, and "*" indicates thatthe item may appear O-n times.
The order of thepredicates indicates that the normal pattern ofdefinitions is an identifying pro~'~tion followedby any number of descriptive predicates.
Thespeaker then provides one or more examples and canoptionally close with some additional descriptiveinformation and possibly another example.TEXT's response to the question "What is aship?"
(shown below) was generated using theidentification schema.
~e sentences are numberedto show the correspondence between each sentenceand the predicate it corresponds to in theinstantiated schema (tile numbers do not occur inthe actual output).115(definition SHIP)Schema selected: identificationi) identification2) evidence3) attributive4) particular-illustrationI) A ship is a water-going vehicle thattravels on the surface.
2) Its surface-goingcapabilities are provided by the DB attributesDISPLACEMENT and DRAFT.
3) Other DBattributes of the ship include MAXIMUM_SPEED,PROPULSION, FUEL (FUELCAPACITY andFUEL_TYPE), DIMENSIONS, SPEED DEPENDENT RANGEand OFFICIAL NAME.
4) The-- ~ES, - -  forexample, has MAXIMUM SPEED of 29, PROPULSIONof STMTURGRD, FUEL~f 810 (FUEL CAPACITY) andBNKR (FUEL TYPE), DIMENSIONS of ~5 (DRAFT), 46(BEAM), and 438 (LENGTH) andSPEED DEP~DENT RANGE of 4200 (ECONOMIC_RANGE)and 2~00 (ENDUP~NCE_RANGE).Another strategy commonly used in theexpository texts examined was to describe anentity or event in terms of its sub-parts orsub-classes.
This strategy involves:I) presenting identificational or attributiveinformation about the entity or event,2) presenting its sub-parts or sub-classes,3) discussing attributive or identificationalinformation with optional evidence about each ofthe sub-classes in turn, and 4) opt--'l-6~al~'yreturning to the orig-{nal-~ity with additionalattributive or analogical information.
Theconstituency schema, shown below, encodes thetechniques used in ?his strategy.The Constituency Schemaattributive/identification (entity)constituency (entity){ attributive/identification(sub-classl, sub-class2,..){evidence(sub-classl, sub-class2, ...)} }+{attributive/analogy (entity) }TEXT'S response to the question "What do youknow about vehicles?"
was generated using theconstituency schema.
It is shown below along withthe predicates that were instantiated for theanswer.
(information VEHICLE)JSchema selected: constituencyi) attributive2) constituency3) attributive4) attributive5) attributivei) The vehicle has DB attributes thatprovide information on SPEED INDICES andTRAVEL MEANS.
2) qhere are 2- types ofvehicl~s in the ONR data~\]se: aircraft andwater-going vehicles.
3) The water-goingvehicle has DB attributes that provideinformation on TRAVEL MEANS andWATER GOING OPERATION.
4) The ~ircraft has DB ?attributes -- that provide information onTRAVEL MEANSf FLIGHT RADIUS, CEILING and ROLE.Other DB attributes -of the vehicle includeFUEL( FUEL_CAP~EITY and FUEL_TYPE) and FLAG.Two other strategies were identified in thetexts examined.
These are encoded in theattributive schema, which is used to providedetailed information about a particular aspect ofan entity, and the compar e and contrast schema,which encodes a strategy --~r contrasting twoentities using a description of their similaritiesand their differences.
For more detail on thesestrategies, see \[MCKEGWN 82\].7.0 USE OF THE SCHEMASAs noted earlier, an examination of textsrevealed that different strategies were used indifferent situations.
In TEXT, this associationof technique with discourse purpose is achieved byassociating the different schemas with differentquestion-types.
For example, if the questioninvolves defining a term, a different set ofschemas (and therefore rhetorical techniques) ischosen than if the question involves describingthe type of information available in the database.The identification schema can be used inresponse to a request for a definition.
Thepurpose of the attributive schema is to providedetailed information about one particular aspectof any concept and it can therefore be used inresponse to a request for information.
Insituations where an object or concept can bedescribed in terms of its sub-parts orsub-classes, the constituency schema is used.
Itmay be selected in response to requests for eitherdefinitions or information.
The compare andcontrast schema is used in response ~o a questl'i'~about the difference between objects.
A surmaryof the assignment of schemas to question-types isshown in Figure 2.116Schemas used for TEXTi.2.3.4.identification-requests for definitionsattributive-requests for available informationconstituency-requests for definitions-requests for available informationcompare and contrast-requests about the differenceSbetween objectsFIGURE 2Once a question has been posed to TEXT, aschema must be selected for the response structurewhich will then be used to control the decisionsinvolved in deciding what to say when.
On thebasis of the given question, a set of schemas isselected as possible structures for the response.This set includes those sch~nas associated withthe given question-type (see Figure 2 above).
Asingle schema is selected out of this set on thebasis of the information available to answer thequestion.For example, in response to requests fordefinitions, the constituency schema is selectedwhen the relevant knowledge pool contains a richdescription of the questioned object's sub-classesand less information about the object itself.When this is not the case, the identificationschema is used.
The test for what kind ofinformation is available is a relatively simpleone.
If the questioned object occurs at a higherlevel in the hierarchy than a pre-determinedlevel, the constituency schema is used.
Note thatthe higher an entity occurs in the hierarchy, theless descriptive information is available aboutthe entity itself.
More information is availableabout its sub-parts since fewer common featuresare associated with entities higher in thehierarchy.This type of semantic and structuralinteraction means that a different schema may beused for answering the same type of question.
Anearlier example showed that the identificationschema was selected by the TEXT system in responseto a request for a definition of a ship.
Inresponse to a request for a definition of a guidedprojectile (shown below), the constituency schemais selected since more information is availableabout the sub-classes of the guided projectilethan about the guided projectile itself.
(definition GUIDED)Schema selected: Constituencyi) identification2) constituency3) identification4) identification5) evidence6) evidence7) attributiveI) A guided projectile is a projectilethat is self-propelled.
2) There are 2 typesof guided projectiles in the ONR database:torpedoes and missiles.
3) The missile has atarget location in the air or on the earth'ssurface.
4) The torpedo has an underwatertarget location.
5) The missile' s targetlocation is indicated by the DB attributeDESCRIPTION and the missile' s flightcapabilities are provided by the DB attributeALTITUDE.
6) The torpedo' s underwatercapabilities are provided by the DB attributesunder DEPTH ( for exampl e,MAXIMUM OPERATING DEPTH).
7) The guidedproj ec t~-i e ~as DB attributesTIME TO_TARGET & UNITS, HORZ RANGE_& UNITS andNAME.Once a schema has been selected, it is filledby matching the predicates it contains against therelevant knowledge pool.
The semantics of eachpredicate define the type of information it canmatch in the knowledge pool.
The semanticsdefined for TEXT are particular to the databasequery dumain and would have to be redefined if theschemas were to be used in another type of system(such as a tutorial system, for example).
Thesemantics are not particular, however, to thedomain of the database.
When transferring thesystem from one database to another, the predicatesemantics would not have to be altered.A proposition is an instantiated predicate;predicate arguments have been filled with valuesfrom the knowledge base.
An instantiation of theidentification predicate is shown below along withits eventual translation.Instantiated predicate:(identification (OCEAN-ESCORT CRUISER)(non-restrictive TRAVEL-MODE SURFACE))SHIPEventual translation:The ocean escort and the cruiser are surfaceships.The schema is filled by stepping through it,using the predicate s~nantics to selectinformation which matches the predicate arguments.In places where alternative predicates occur inthe schema, all alternatives are matched againstthe relevant knowledge pool producing a set ofpropositions.
The focus constraints are used toselect the most appropriate proposition.i17The schemas were implemented using aformalism similar to an augmented transitionnetwork (ATN).
Taking an arc corresponds to theselection of a proposition for the answer.
Statescorrespond to filled stages of the schema.
Themain difference between the TEXT systemimplementation and a usual ATN, however, is in thecontrol of alternatives.
Instead of uncontrolledbacktracking, TEXT uses one state lookahead.
Froma given state, it explores all possible nextstates and chooses among them using a functionthat encodes the focus constraints.
This use ofone state lookahead increases the efficiency ofthe strategic component since it eliminatesunbounded non-determinism.8.0 FOCUSING MECHANISMSo far, a speaker has been shown to belimited in many ways.
For example, s/he islimited by the goal s/he is trying to achieve inthe current speech act.
TEXT's goal is to answerthe user's current question.
To achieve thatgoal, the speaker has limited his/her scope ofattention to a set of objects relevant to thisgoal, as represented by global focus or therelevant knowledge pool.
The speaker is alsolimited by his/her higher-level plan of how toachieve the goal.
In TEXT, this plan is thechosen schema.
Within these constraints, however,a speaker may still run into the problem ofdeciding what to say next.A focusing mechanism is used to providefurther constraints on what can be said.
Thefocus constraints used in TEXT are immediate,since they use the most recent proposition(corresponding to a sentence in the ~gl ishanswer) to constrain the next utterance.
Thus, asthe text is constructed, it is used to constrainwhat can be said next.Sidner \[SIDNER 79\] used three pieces ofinformation for tracking immediate focus: theimmediate focus of a sentence (represented by thecurrent focus - CF), the elements of a sentence~---I~hare potential candidates for a change infocus (represented by a potential focus list -PFL), and past immediate focY \[re--pr--esent--'-~--6y afocus stack).
She showed that a speaker has the3~6~win-g'~tions from one sentence to the next:i) to continue focusing on the same thing, 2) tofocus on one of the items introduced in  the lastsentence, 3) to return to a previous topic in~lich case the focus stack is popped, or 4) tofocus on an item implicitly related to any ofthese three options.
Sidner's work on focusingconcerned the inter~\[e__tation of anaphora.
Shesays nothing about which of these four options ispreferred over others since in interpretation thechoice has already been made.For generation, ~.~ver, a speaker may haveto choose between these options at any point,given all that s/he wants to say.
The speaker maybe faced with the following choices:i) continuing to talk about the same thing(current-focus equals current-focus of theprevious sentence) or starting to talk aboutsomething introduced in the last sentence(current-focus is a member of potential-focus-listof the previous sentence) and 2) continuing totalk about the same thing (current focus remainsthe same) or returning to a topic of previousdiscussion (current focus is a member of thefocus-stack).When faced with the choice of remaining onthe same topic or switching to one justintroduced, I claim a speaker's preference is toswitch.
If the speaker has sanething to say aboutan item just introduced and does not present itnext, s/he must go to the trouble ofre-introducing it later on.
If s/he does presentinformation about the new item first, however,s/he can easily continue where s/he left off byfollowing Sidner's legal option #3.
~qus, forreasons of efficiency, the speaker should shiftfocus to talk about an item just introduced whens/he has something to say about it.When faced with the choice of continuing totalk about the same thing or returning to aprevious topic of conversation, I claim aspeaker's preference is to remain on the sametopic.
Having at some point shifted focus to thecurrent focus, the speaker has opened a topic forconversation.
By shifting back to the earlierfocus, the speaker closes this new topic, implyingthat s/he has nothing more to say about it when infact, s/he does.
Therefore, the speaker shouldmaintain the current focus when possible in orderto avoid false implication of a finished topic.These two guidelines for changing andmaintaining focus during the process of generatinglanguage provide an ordering on the three basiclegal focus moves that Sidner specifies:I.2.3.change focus to member of previouspotential focus list if possible -CF (new sentence) is a member of PFL(last sentence)maintain focus if possible -CF (new sentence) = CF (last sentence)return to topic of previous discussion -CF (new sentence) is a member offocus-stackI have not investigated the problem ofincorporating focus moves to items implicitlyassociated with either current loci, potentialfocus list members, or previous foci into thisscheme.
This remains a topic for future research.Even these guidelines, however, do not appearto be enough to ensure a connected discourse.Although a speaker may decide to focus on aspecific entity, s/he may want to conveyinformation about several properties of thatentity.
S/he will describe related properties ofthe entity before describing other properties.118Thus, strands of semantic connectivity will occurat more than one level of the discourse.An example of this phenomenon is given indialogues (A) and (B) below.
In both, thediscourse is focusing on a single entity (theballoon), but in (A) properties that must betalked about are presented randomly.
In (B), arelated set of properties (color) is discussedbefore the next set (size).
(B), as a result, ismore connected than (A).
(A) The balloon was red and white striped.Because this balloon was designed to carrymen, it had to be large.
It had a silvercircle at the top to reflect heat.
In fact,it was larger than any balloon John had everseen.
(B) The balloon was red and white striped.
Ithad a silver circle at the top to reflectheat.
Because this balloon was designed tocarry men, it had to be large.
In fact, itwas larger than any balloon John had everseen.In the generation process, this phenomenon isaccounted for by further constraining the choiceof what to talk about next to the proposition withthe greatest number of links to the potentialfocus list.8.1 Use Of The Focus ConstraintsTEXT uses the legal focus moves identified bySidner by only matching schema predicates againstpropositions which have an argument that can befocused in satisfaction of the legal options.Thus, the matching process itself is constrainedby the focus mechanism.
The focus preferencesdeveloped for generation are used to selectbetween remaining options.These options occur in TEXT when a predicatematches more than one piece of information in therelevant knowledge pool or when more ~,an onealternative in a schema can be satisfied.
In suchcases, the focus guidelines are used to select themost appropriate proposition.
When options exist,all propositions are selected which have asfocused argument a member of the previous PFL.
Ifnone exist, thenwhose focusedcurrent-focus.propositions areis a member offiltering stepspossibilities toproposition withall propositions are selectedargument is the previousIf none exist, then allselected whose focused argumentthe focus-stack.
If thesedo not narrow down thea single proposition, thatthe greatest number of links tothe previous PFL is selected for the answer.
Tnefocus and potential focus list of each propositionis maintained and passed to the tactical componentfor use in selecting syntactic constructions andpronominalization.Interaction of the focus constraints with theschemas means that although the same schema may beselected for different answers, it can beinstantiated" in different ways.
Recall that theidentification schema was selected in response tothe question "What is a ship?"
and the fourpredicates, identification, evidence, attributive,and ~articular-illustrati0n, were instantiated.Tne identification schema was also selected inresponse to the question "What is an aircraftcarrier?
", but different predicates wereinstantiated as a result of the focus constraints:(definition AIRCRAFT-CARRIER)Schema selected: identificationI) identification2) analogy3) particular-illustration4) amplification5) evidencei) An aircraft carrier is a surface shipwith a DISPLACEMENT between 78000 and 80800and a LENGTH between 1039 and 1063.2) Aircraft carriers have a greater LENGTHthan all other ships and a " greaterDISPLACEMENT than most other ships.
3) Minewarfare ships, for example, have aDISPLACF24ENT of 320 and a LENGTH of 144.4) All aircraft carriers in the ONR databasehave REMARKS of 0, FUEL TYPE of BNKR, FLAG ofBLBL, BEAM of 252, ENDU--I~NCE RANGE of 4000,ECONOMIC SPEED of 12, ENDURANCE SPEED of 30and PRO~LSION of STMTURGRD.
5)--A ship isclassified as an aircraft carrier if thecharacters 1 through 2 of its HULL NO are CV.9.0 FUTURE DIRECTIONSSeveral possibilities for further developmentof the research described here include i) the useof the same strategies for responding to questionsabout attributes, events, and relations as well asto questions about entities, 2) investigation ofstrategies needed for responding to questionsabout the system processes (e.g.
How ismanufacturer ' s cost determined?)
or systemcapabilities (e.g.
Can you handle ellipsis?)
,3) responding to presuppositional failure as wellas to direct questions, and 4) the incorporationof a user model in the generation process(currently TEXT assumes a static casual, naiveuser and gears its responses to thischaracterization).
Tnis last feature could beused, among other ways, in determining the amountof detail required (see \[ MCKEOWN 82\] fordiscussion of the recursive use of the sch~nas).11910.0 CONCLUSIONThe TEXT system successfully incorporatesprinciples of relevancy criteria, discoursestructure, and focus constraints into a method forgenerating English text of paragraph length.Previous work on focus of attention has beenextended for the task of generation to provideconstraints on what to say next.
Knowledge aboutdiscourse structure has been encoded into schemasthat are used to guide the generation process.The use of these two interacting mechanismsconstitutes a departure from earlier generationsystems.
The approach taken in this research isthat the generation process should not simplytrace the knowledge representation to producetext.
Instead, communicative strategies peopleare familiar with are used to effectively conveyinformation.
This means that the same informationmay be described in different ways on differentoccasions.The result is a system which constructs andorders a message in response to a given question.Although the system was designed to generateanswers to questions about database structure (afeature lacking in most natural language databasesystems), the same techniques and principles couldbe used in other application areas (for example,computer assisted instruction systems, expertsystems, etc.)
where generation of language isneeded.~owl~~I would like to thank Aravind Joshi, BonnieWebber, Kathleen McCoy, and Eric Mays for theirinvaluable comments on the style and content ofthis paper.
Thanks also goes to Kathleen Mccoyand Steven Bossie for their roles in implementingportions of the sys~om.References\[BOSSIE 82\].
Bossie, S., "A tactical model fortext generation: sentence generation using afunctional grammar," forthcoming M.S.
thesis,University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pa.,1982.\[CHEN 76\].
Chen, P .P .S .
,  "Theentity-relationship model - towards a unified viewof data."
__ACM Transactions --?n Database Svstems,Vol.
I, No.
I.
(1976).\[GRIMES 75\].
Grimes, J .E .
The Thread ofDiscourse.
Mouton, The Hague, Par-~.
(1975).\[GROSZ 77\].
Grosz, B. J., "The representation anduse of focus in dialogue understanding."
Technicalnote 151, Stanford Research Institute, Menlo Park,Ca.
(1977).\[LEE a\[~ GERRITSEN 78\].
Lee, R.M.
endR.
Gerritsen, "Extended semantics Lotgeneralization hierarchies", in Proceedings of the1978 ACM-SIGMOD International Conference onManagement of Data, Aus?1n, Tex., 1978.\[KAY 79\].
Kay, M. "Functional grammar.
"Proceedings of the 5th ;~inual Meetin~ of theBerkele Z Ling~\[stl-l~Soc--\[~ty.
(1979).\[MALHOTRA 75\].
Malhotra, A.
"Design criteria fora knowledge-based English language system formanagement: an experimental analysis."
MACTR-146, MIT, Cambridge, Mass.
(1975).\[MCCOY 82\].
McCoy, K. F., "Augmenting a databaseknowledge representation for natural languagegeneration," in Proc.
of the 20th AnnualConference of the ~soc-~t ion~or  Com~utatlo-~Linguistics , Toronto, Canada, 1982.\[MCKEOWN 80\].
McKeown, K.R.,  "Generatingrelevant explanations: natural language responsesto questions about database structure."
inProceedinss of AAAI, Stanford Univ., Stanford, Ca.(1980).
pp.
306-9.\[MCKEOWN 82\].
McKeown, K. R., "Generating naturallanguage text in response to questions aboutdatabase structure."
Ph.D. dissertation,University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pa.1982.\[SHEPHERD 26\].
Shepherd, H. R., Tne Fine Art ofWritinc/, The Macmillan Co., New York, N. Y., 1926.\[SIDNER 79\].
Sidner, C.L.
,  "Towards acomputational theory of definite anaphoracomprehension in English discourse."
Ph.D.dissertation, MIT AI Technical Report #TR-537,Cambridge, Mass.
(1979).\[SMITH and SMITH 77\].
Smith, J .M.
andSmith, D. C.P.
,  "Database abstractions:aggregation and generalization."
University ofUtah, ACM Transactions on Database Systems, Vol.2, #2, June 1977, pp.
105-33.\[TENNANT 79\].
Tennant, H., "Experience with theevaluation of natural language questionanswerers."
Working paper #18, Univ.
of Illinois,Urbana-Champaign, I l l .
(1979).120
