ON THE PRESENTNorman K. SondheimerSperry UnivacBlue Bell, PA 19424 USAThe Association for Computational Linguisticsis twenty years old.
We have much to be proud of:a fine journal, significant annual meetings, and astrong presence in the professional community.Computational Linguistics, itself, has much to beproud of: influence in the research community,courses in universities, research support ingovernment and industry, and attention in thepopular press.Not to spoil the fun, but the same was truetwenty years ago and the society and the field hashad to go through some difficult times since then.To be sure, much has changed.
The ACL has over1200 members.
Computational Linguistics has manynew facets and potential applications.
However toan outsider, we still appear to be a field withpotential rather than one with achievement.
Whyis that?There are certainly many reasons.
One is theattractiveness of our most abstract theories.They are widely presented and receive the mostscholarly attention.
The popular and technicalpress contributes by pub1~cizing our w~\]der claimsand broadest hopes.
~imilar\]y, the pressoversells our current systems, leading morecareful observers to wonder even about these.Finally, mechanizing the understanding of naturallanguage ~s very difficult.
We can not hope toachieve many of our goals in the near future.Making do with the technology now available isvery frustrating.
All this contributes to we themembers of the field gravitating to theorizing andsmall laboratory studies.
We are choosing tofocus on the ?uture rather than the present.There is a real danger in this state ofaffairs.
The build up of public and institutionalexpectations without a corresponding emergence ofuseful systems will produce a counter reaction.We have seen it before.
To this day, machinetranslation research in the United States has notcompletely recovered.
There is more need thanever~ there is more technology than before, wordprocessing and computer typesetting have changedthe price equation, but it is stilS not consideredwise to be associated with MT.
We can not letthis sort of reversal happen to us again.Fortunately, we need not.We do have substantial achievements.
Overthe years, we have produced or bad influence onuseful systems for information storage andretrieval, speech understanding and generation,and document processing.
Natural languageinterfaces to databases are just now reaching themarket.
There are even limited but useful machinetranslation systems.
There is more that we allknow can and will be done in these areas.This will not be easy.
We must accept thecompromises forced on us by our limitedtechnology.
We must accept the unglamorous workthat needs to be done.
We must be careful in theway we present our work.It will not be all bad.
There appear to besome attractive financia\] returns.
These are notto be ignored.
In fact, it would probably do usall good if Computational Linguistics ~ad a fewmillionaires to its credit.We must congratulate ourselves on twentyyears of life, but we must also work hard to carryoff a~other twenty years.
I am sure we will.107
