A FOUNDATION FOR SEMANTIC INTERPRETAT IONGraeme HirstDepartment of Computer ScienceBrown UniversityProvidence, RI 02912Abst rac tTraditionally, translation from the parse tree repre-senting a sentence to a semantic representation (suchas frames or procedural semantics) has a/ways beenthe most  ad hoc part of natural anguage understand-ng (NLU) systems.
However, recent advances in lin-guistics, most notably the system of formal semanticsknown as Montague semantics, suggest ways of puttingNLU semantics onto a cleaner and firmer foundation.We are using a Montague-inspired approach to seman-tics in an integrated NL U and pro blem-solving systemthat  we are building.
Like Montague's, our semanticsare compositional by design and strongly typed, withsemantic rules in one-to-one correspondence with themeaning-affecting rules of a Marcus-style parser.
Wehave replaced Montague's emantic objects, functorsand truth conditions, with the elements of the framelanguage Frail, and added a word sense and case slotdisambiguation system.
The result is a foundation forsemantic interpretation that we believe to be superior~o previous approaches.I.
Introduct ionBy semantic interpretation we mean the process ofmapping from a syntactically analyzed sentence ofnatural language to a representation of its meaning.We exclude from semantic interpretation any con-sideration of discourse pragmatics; rather, discoursepragmatics operate upon the output of the semanticinterpreter.
We also exclude syntactic analysis; theintegration of syntactic and semantic analysis becomesvery messy when complex syntactic onstructions areconsidered, and, moreover, it is our observation thatthose who argue for the integration of the two areusually arguing for subordinating the role of syntax, aposition we reject.
This is not to say that parsing canget by without semantic help; indirect object finding,This work was supported by the Oflfice of Naval Research undercontract number N00014-79-C-0592.and prepositional phrase and relative clause attach-ment, for example, often require semantic knowledge.Below we will show that syntax and semantics maywork well together while remaining distinct modules.Research on semantic interpretation in artificialintelligence goes back to Woods's dissertation (1967,1968), which introduced procedural semantics in anatural-language front-end for an airline reservationsystem.
Woods's system had rules with patterns that,when they matched part of the parsed input sentence,contributed a string to the semantic representationof the sentence.
This string was usually constructedfrom the terminals of the matched parse tree frag-ment.
The strings were combined to form a procedurecall that, when evaluated, entered or retrieved the ap-propriate database information.
This approach is stillthe predominant one today, and even though it hasbeen refined over the years, semantic interpretationremains perhaps the least understood and most ad hocarea of natural language understanding (NLU).IHowever, recent advances in linguistics, most not-ably Montague semantics (Montague 1973; Dowry,Wall and Peters 1981), suggest ways of putting NLUsemantic interpretation on a cleaner and firmer foun-dation than it now is.
In this paper, we describe sucha foundation.
22.
Montague  semant icsIn his well-known "PTQ" paper (Montague 1973),Richard Montague presented the complete syntax andsemantics for a small fragment of English.
Althoughit was limited in vocabulary and syntactic com-plexity, Montague's fragment dealt with such impor-lit is also philosophically controversial.
For discussion, seeFodor 1978, Johnson-Laird 1978, Fodor 1979, and Wilks 1982.2Ours is not the only current work with this Ko~tl; in Section 7we discuse other similarly motivated work,64tant  semantic problems as opaque contexts, differenttypes of predication with the word be, and the "thetemperature is 90" problem; 3 for details of these, seeDowty, Wall and Peters (1981).Montague's emantic rules correspond to what wehave been calling semantic interpretation.
That is, inconjunction with a syntactic process, they produce asemantic representation, or translation, of a sentence.There are four important properties of Montaguesemantics that we will examine here.
Below, wewill carry three of these properties over into our ownsemantics.The first property, the one that we will later drop,is that for Montague, semantic objects, the resultsof the semantic translation, were such things as in-dividual concepts (which are functions to individualsfrom the cartesian product of points in time and pos-sible worlds), properties of individual concepts, andfunctions of functions of functions of functions.
At thetop level, the meaning, of a sentence was a truth con-dition relative to a possible world and point in time.These semantic objects were represented by expres-sions of intensional logic; that is, instead of translat-ing English directly into these objects, a sentence wasfirst translated to an expression of intensional ogic,for which, in turn, there existed an interpretation iterms of these semantic objects.Second, Montague had a strong theory of types forhis semantic objects: a set of types that correspondedto types of syntactic onstituents.
Thus, given a par-ticular syntactic ategory, such as proper noun or ad-verb, Montague was able to say that the meaning ofa constituent of that category was a semantic objectof such and such a type.
4 Montague's ystem of typeswas recursively defined, with entities, truth values andintensions as primitives, and other types defined asfunctions from one type to another in such a mannerthat if syntactic category X was formed by addingcategory Y to category Z, then the type correspond-ing to g would be functions from senses of the type of3That  is, to ensure that  "The temperature  is ~0 and the tem-perature is rising* cannot  lead to the inference that  "90 is ris-ing".4To be precise: the semant ic  type of a proper noun is set ofpropert ies of individual  concepts; that of an adverb is funct ionbetween set~ v\[ indiv idual  concepts (Dowry ?~ al Ig81: 183, 187).Y to the type of X.
5Third, in Montague's ystem the syntactic rulesand semantic rules are in one-to-one correspondence.Each time a particular syntactic rule applies, sodoes the corresponding semantic rule; while the oneoperates on some syntactic elements to create a newelement, the other operates on the correspondingsemantic objects to create a new object that will cor-respond to the new syntactic element.
Thus the twosets of rules operate in tandem.Fourth, Montague's emantics is compositional,which is to say that the meaning of the whole is asystematic function of the meaning of the parts.
Atfirst glance this sounds trivial; if the noun phrase mypet penguin denotes by itself some particular entity,namely the one sitting on my lap as I write this paper,then we do not expect it to refer to a different entitywhen it is embedded in the sentence \[ love my petpenguin, and a semantic system that did not reflectthis would be a loser indeed.
Yet there are alternativesto compositional semantics.The first alternative is that the meaning of thewhole is a function of not just the parts but also thesituation in which the sentence is uttered.
For ex-ample, the possessive in English is highly dependentupon pragmatics; the phrase Nadia's penguin couldrefer, in different circumstances, to the penguin thatNadia owns, to the one that she is carrying but doesn'tactually own, or to the one that she just bet on at thepenguin races.
Our definition above of semantic inter-pretation excluded this sort of consideration, but thisshould not be regarded as uncontroversial.The second alternative to compositional semanticsis that the meaning of the whole is not a systematicfunction of the parts in any reasonable sense of theword.
This is exemplified by the interpretation of theword depart in Woods's original system, which variedgreatly depending on the preposition it dominated(Woods 1967:A-43-A-46).
For example, the interpreta-tion of the sentence:AA-57 departs from Boston.is, not unreasonably:5For example,  the semant ic  type of prepos i t ions is funct ionsmapping senses of the type of noun phrases to the semant ic  typeof preposit ional  phrases.65depar~ (as-57, boston).That is, the semantic object into which depart istranslated is the procedure depart.
(AA-57 is an air-line Right.)
However, the addition of a prepositionalphrase changes this; Table 1 shows the interpreta-tion of the same sentence after wrious prepositionalphrases have been appended.
For example, the addi-tion of ~o Chicago changes the translation of depart;to connect, though the intended sense of the word isclearly unchanged, sThis is necessitated by the particular set ofdatabase primitives that Woods used, selected fortheir being %tom/c" (1967:7-4-7-11) rather than forpromoting compositions/Sty.
Rules in the system axeable to generate non-compositional representations be-cause they have the power to set an arbitrarily complexparse tree as their trigger, and to return an axbitraryrepresentation that could modify or completely ignorethe components of the parse trees they are supposed tobe interpreting/ For example, a rule can say (1967:A-44):If you have a sentence whose subject is a flight,whose verb is leave or depart, and which hastwo (or more) prepositional phrases modifyingthe verb, one with /from and a place name, theother with a~ and a time, then the interpretationis equal (dtime (a, b), c), where a is theflight, b is the place, and c is the time.Thus while Woods's semantics could probably be made?
reasonably compositional simply by appropriate ad-justment of the procedure calls into which sentencesare translated, it would still not be compositional bydesign the way Montague semantics is.8~Ve have simplif ied a Little here in order to make our point.
Infact, sentences like those in Table I with preposit ional  phraseswill ~ctual ly cause the execut ion of two semantic rules: one forthe complete sentence, and one for the sentence it happens tocontain, A.A-57 depcrts f rom 8os~o~.
The result ing interpreta-t ion will be the conjunct ion of the output from each rule (Woods1967~9-5):AA-57 depLrts from Boston to Chicago.depar~ (aa-ST, boston) and connec~ (aa-57.
boston, c~icago)Woods leaves it open (1967:9-7) a,s to how the semantic redun-dancy in such expressions should be handled, thou~,h one of hiesuggestions is a filter that  would remove conjuncts impl ied byothers, giving, in this case, the interpretat ion shown in Table 1.7Nor is there &nything that  prevents the construct ion of rulesthat would result in conjunct ions with conflicting, rather thanmerely redund~tnt, terms.TABLE 1.NONCOMPOSITIONALITY IN WOODS'S SYSTEMAA-57 departs from Boston.depar t  (aa-57, bos~on)A.A-57 departs from Boston to Chicago.conltecT, (aa-5T, besT, on.
chicago)AA-57 departs from Boston on Monday.dday (aa-57, boston, monday)AA-57 departs from Boston at 8:00am.equal (dtlme (aa-5T.
boston), 8:00am)AA-57 departs from Boston after 8:00am.greater (dtime (aa-5T, boston), 8:00am)A.A-57 departs from Boston before 8:00am.greater (8:00am, dtlme (aa-5T.
boston))Although Montague semantics has much to recom-mend it, it is not possible, ho~vever, to implement itdirectly in a practical NLU system, for two reasons.The first is that Montague semantics as currently for-mulated is computationally impractical.
It throwsaround huge sets, infinite objects, functions of func-tions, and piles of possible worlds with great abandon.Friedman, Moran and Warren (1978a) point out thatin the smallest possible Montague system, one with.two entities and two points of reference, there are, forexample, 22"s= elements in the class of possible denota-tions of prepositions, each element being a set contain-ing 2512 ordered pairs, sThe second reason we can't use Montague seman-tics directly is that truth-conditional semantics are notuseful in AI; A/uses know/edge semant.ics (Tarnawksy1982) in which semantic objects tend to be symbols orexpressions in a declarative or procedural knowledgerepresentation system.
Moreover, truth-conditionalsemantics really only deals with declarative sentences(Dowry eC al 1981:13) (though there has been workattempting to extend Montague's work to questions;e.g.
Hamblin 1973); a practical NLU system needs tobe able to deal with commands and questions as wellas declarative sentences.8Despite this problem, Fr iedman et ?I (1978b, 1978c) have imple-mented Mont~gue semantics computat iona l ly  by using tech-n/ques for mainta in ing part ia l ly specified models.
However, theirsystem is intended ~s ~ tool for understanding Montague seman-tics better, r~ther than &s ~ usable NLU system (1978b:26).66There have, however, been attempts to take theintensional logic that Montague uses as an inter-mediate step in his translations, and give it a new in-terpretation i terms of AI-type semantic objects, thuspreserving all other aspects of Montague's approach;see, for example, Hobbs and Rosenschein 1977, andSmith's (1979) objections to their approach.
There hasalso been interest in using the intensional logic itself(or something similar) as an AI representation ~ (e.g.Moore 1981).
But while it may be possible to makelimited use of intensional logic expressions, I?
there aremany problems that need to be solved before inten-sional logic or other flavors of logical forms could sup-port the type of inference and problem solving thatAI requires of its semantic representations; see Moore1981 for a useful discussion.
Moreover, Gallin (1975)has shown Montague's intensional logic to be incom-plete.
(See also the discussion in Section 7 of workusing logical forms.
)Nevertheless, it is possible to use many aspects ofMontague's approach in semantics in AI.
The seman-tic interpreter that we describe below maintains threeof the four properties of Montague semantics thatwe described above, and we therefore refer to it as"Montague-inspired".TABLE 2.TYPES IN THE AHSITY SEMANTIC INTERPRETERBASIC TYPESFrame a(penguin ?x), Clove ?x)Slotcolor, agentFrame determiner b(t~e ?x), Ca ?x)OTHER TYPESSlot-filler pair = slot ~ frame statement(color=red), (agent=(the ?x (f?sh ?x)))Frame descriptor = frame ~ slot-filler pair*(pen~uln ?x (owner=Nadla)),(love ?x (agent=Ross) (patient=Nadla)),(dog ?x)Frame statement \[or instance c\]= frame determiner -~ frame descriptor(the ?x (penguin ?x (owner=Nadla))),(a ?x (love ?x (agent=Ross)(pail ent=Nadl a) ) ),(the ?x (dog ?x) ) .pen~ln87 \[an instancel3.
Our semantic interpreterOur semantic interpreter is a component of a systemthat uses a frame-like representation for both storycomprehension and problem-solving.
The system in-cludes a frame language, named Frail, a problem sol-ver, and a discourse pragmatics component; furtherdetails may be found in Charniak 1981, Wong 1981a,and Wong 1981b.
The natural language front-end in-cludes Paragram, a deterministic parser based on thatof Marcus (1980).
Unlike Marcus's parser, Paragramhas two types of rule: base phrase structure rules andtransformational rules.
It is also able to parse un-grammatical sentences; it always uses the rule thatmatches best, even if none match exactly.
Paragramis described in Charniak 1983.91tonical ly, Montague regarded  intensional  logic mere ly  as a con-venience in specifyin K his t rans la t ion ,  and one  that  was com-pletely i r re levant  o the substance  of his semant ic  theories.lOGodden (1981) in f~ct uses them for s imple t rans la t ion  bet-ween Thai  and Engl ish.aThe  que J t ion -m~rk  prefix indicates & var iable.
Whenever  a freev~iab le  in a f rame is bound to a v~iab le  in a f rame determiner ,  aunique new name is generated  for that  var iab le  and its b indings.In this paper ,  we shall assume for s impl ic i ty  that  vaxiable names~re maKical ly ~correct" f rom the start .bDo not be misled by the fact  that  f rames  and f rame determinersl ook  similar.
They  He  actua l ly  very different: the first is a gtat icdata  s t ructure ;  the second is a f rame retrieva~l procedure.CAn instance is the result  of eva luat ing  a f rame s ta tement  in Frai l .It is a symbol  that  denotes the object  re ferenced by the f rames ta tement .
To Absity,  there  is no d is t inct ion  between the two; ~ninstan.ce can be used wherever  ~ f rame I ta tement  c~n.The semantic interpreter is named Absity (forreasons too obscure to burden the reader with).
Aswe mentioned above, it retains three of the fourproperties of Montague semantics that we discussed.The property that we have dropped is, of course, truthconditionality and Montague's associated treasury ofsemantic objects.
We have replaced them with AI-style semantics, and our own repertory of objects,67TABLE 3.TYPE CORRESPONDENCES IN ABSITYSYNTACTIC TYPE SEMANTIC TYPEMajor sentenceSentenceNounAdjectiveDeterminerNoun phrasePrepositionPrepositional PhraseVerbAdverbAuxiliaryVerb phraseClause endFrame statement, instanceFrame descriptorFrameSlot-filler pairFrame determinerFrame statement, instanceSlot nameSlot-filler pair(Action) frameSlot-filler pairSlot-filler pairFrame descriptorFrame determiner.which are components of the frame language Frail.
11We do, however, retain a strong typing upon oursemantic objects, that is, each syntactic category hasan associated semantic type.
Table 2 shows the typesof components of Frail, how they may be combined,and examples of each; the nature of the componentslisted will become clearer with the examples in thenext section.
Table 3 gives the component of Frail thatcorresponds to each syntactic type.
As a consequenceof the kind of semantic objects we are dealing with,the system of types is not recursively defined in theMontague style, but we retain the idea that the typeof a semantic object should be a function of the typesof the components of that object.We have also carried over from Montague seman-tics the operation of syntactic and semantic rules intandem upon corresponding objects.
However, it is notpossible to maintain the one-to-one correspondence ofrules when we replace Montague's imple syntax withthe much larger English grammar of the Paragramparser.
This is because in Montague's ystem each syn-tactic rule either creates a new node from old ones--for example, forming an intransitive verb phrase froma transitive verb and a noun phrase--or places a newl lA l thou~h the object  that  represents a Sentence is ?
procedurecall in Frail upon a knowledge basej this is not  procedur~l  sem~n-tics in the str ict Woods  sense, as the mes~aing inheres not in theprocedures but in the objects they manipulate.node under an existing one--such as adding an adverbto an existing intransitive verb phrase.
These are" ac-tions that clearly have semantic counterparts.
Whenwe start to add movement rules such as passivizatioaand dative movement o the grammar, we find our-selves with rules that have no clear semantic ounter-part; indeed with rules that, it is often claimed (e.g.Chomsky 1965:132), leave the meaning of a sentencequite unchanged.We therefore distinguish between parser rules thatshould have corresponding semantic rules and thosethat should not.
As the above discussion suggests,rules that attach nodes are the ones that have seman-tic counterparts.
In Paragram, these are the basestructure rules.
For this subset of the syntactic rules,semantic rules run in tandem, just as in Montague'ssemantics, mIt is a consequence of the above properties ofour semantic interpreter that we have also retainedthe property of compositionaiity by design.
This fol-lows from the uniform typing; the correspondence b t-ween syntactic and semantic rules that maintains thisuniformity; and there being a unique semantic objectcorresponding to each word of English i~ (see Dowty e~al 1981:180-181).
Unlike those of Woods's (1967) air-line reservation system front-end discussed in Section2, our semantic rules are very weak: they cannotchange or ignore the components upon which theyoperate, nor can more than one rule volunteer an inter-pretation for any node of the parse tree.
The power ofthe system comes from the nature of the semantic ob-jects and the syntax-directed application of semanticrules, rather than from the semantic rules themselves.4.
ExamplesSome examples will make our semantic interpreterclearer.
First, let's consider a simple noun phrase,the book.
From Table 3, the semantic type for thedeterminer She is a frame determiner function, in thiscase (the ?x), and the type for the noun book is akind of frame, here (book ?x).
These are combined12In her synthesis  of t ransformationa.
l  syntax  with Monta6,ueacrost i cs ,  Partee (1973, 1975) observes that the semantic rulecorresponding to many t rans format ions  will simply be the iden-tity mapping.13We show in Section 6 how this may be reconciled with lexicalambiguity.68in the canonical way--the frame name is added as anargument to the frame determiner function--and theresult, (the ?x (book ?x)),  is a Frail frame state-ment (which evaluates to an instance) that representsthe unique book referred to.
14A descriptive adjective corresponds to a slot-fillerpair; for example, red is represented by (co lor=red) ,where co lor  is the name of a slot and red is a frameinstance, the name of a frame.
A slot-filler paircan be added as an argument to a frame, so the redbook would have the semantic interpretation (the ?x(book ?x (color=red))).Now let's consider a complete sentence:Nadia bought the book from a store in the mall.Table 4 shows the representation for each componentof the sentence; note that the basic noun phraseshave already been formed in the manner describedabove.
Note also that we have inserted the pseudo-prepositional subject and object markers susJ  andosJ, which are then treated as if they were realprepositions; see Hirer and Charniak 1982 or Hirst1983 for details of this.
For simplicity, we assume thateach word is unambiguous (we discuss our disambigua-tion procedures in Section 6); we also ignore the tensecn the verb.
Table 5 shows the next four stages in theinterpretation.
First, noun phrases and their preposi-tions are combined, forming slot-filler pairs.
Then theprepositional phrase in the mall can be attached to astore (since a noun phrase, being a frame, can havea slot-filler pair added to it), and the prepositionalphrase from a store in the marl is formed.
The thirdstage shown in the Table is the attachment of the slot-filler pairs for the three top-level prepositional phrasesto the frame representing the verb.
Finally, the period,which is translated as a frame determiner function,causes instantiation of the buy frame, and the trans-lation is complete.5.
Semantic help for the parserAs we mentioned earlier, any parser will occasionallyneed semantic help.
In Marcus-type parsers, this needoccurs in rules that have the form "If semantics prefers14Note ~hat it is the responsibi l i ty" of the  f rame sys tem to deter -mine  w i th  the  help of the  pragmat ics  modu le  wh ich  one of  thebooks that  it m~ty know about  is the  cor rect  one in context .TABLE 4.ABSITY EXAMPL EWORD OR PHRASE SEMANTIC  OBJECTSUBJ  agentNadia (the ?x ( th ing  ?x(propername="Nadla")))bought (buy ?x)oBJ pa~len~the book (the ?y (book ?y))from sourcea store (a ?z (el;ore ?z))in loca~lonthe mall (the ?w (mall ?w))?
\[period I (a ?u)X over Y then do X' ;  otherwise do Y" .
To answersuch questions, we have a Semantic Enquiry Desk r, hatoperates upon the same semantic objects as the seman-tic interpreter.
Because these objects are componentsof the Frail frame language, the Enquiry Desk canuse the full retrieval and inference power of Frail inanswering the enquiry.6.
Word sense disambiguationOne problem that Montague semantics does not ad-dress is that of word disambiguation.
Rather, there isassumed to exist a function that maps each word to aunique sense, and the semantic formalism operates onthe values of this function.Is Clearly, however, a prac-tical NLU system must take account of word sense am-biguity, and so we must add a disambiguation facilityto our interpreter.
Fortunately, the word translationfunction allows us to ~dd this facility transparently.Instead of simply mapping a word to an invariantunique sense, the function can map it to whateversense is correct for a particular instance.Our disambiguation facility is called PolaroidWords.
Is Each word in the system is represented by15This is not quite true.
Specified unique translations axe givenfor p roper  names  and  for a few impor tant  funct ion  words ,  such  asthe and  be; see Monta~e 197312\ ] :261 , or Dowry  ~ ~l 1981:192f f .16polaroid is a t rademark  of the Polaroid Corporat ion .69TABLE 5.ABSITY EXAMPLE (CONTINUED)SUBJ Nadia(agent,= ( the  ?x(thlng ?x (propername="Nadla"))))OSJ the book(pat len l ;=( the  ?y  (book  ?y) ) )in the mal l(loca~lon:C1;he ?~ (mall ?w)))a store in the mall(a ?z (s~core ?z(loca~ion=C~he ?w (mall ?w)))))from a store in the mall(source=Ca ?z (s~ore ?z(locatlon=(the ?w (mall ?W))))))NaSa bought the book from a s tore in  the mall(buy ?u(agent=( the  ?x ( th lng  ?x(propername="Sadia"))))(patient=(the ?y (book ?y)))(source=(a ?z (store ?z(location=(the ?w (m~ll ?w)))))))Nadia bought the book from a store in the mail.
(a ?u(buy ?u(agenr ,=( the  ?x (thing ?x(propername=" N adla" ) ) ) )(pat ient= ( the  ?y (book ?y) ) )(source=(a ?z (store ?z(locatlon=(1;he ?w (marl ?w)))))))a separate process that, by talking to other processesand by looking at paths made by spreading activationin the knowledge base, figures out the word's mean-ing.
Each word is like a self-developing photographthat can be manipulated by the semantic interpretereven while the picture is forming; and if some otherprocess needs to look at the picture (e.g.
if theSemantic Enquiry Desk has an "if semantics prefers ~question from the parser), then a half-developed pic-ture may provide enough information.
Exactly thesame process, without the spreading-activation phase,is used to disambiguate case roles as well.
PolaroidWords are described more fully in Hirst and Charniak1982 and Hirst 1983.7.
Comparison with other workOur approach to semantic interpretation may usefullybe compared with other recent work with similar goalsto ours.One such project is that of Jones and Warren(1982), who attempt a conciliation between Montaguesemantics and a conceptual dependency representation(Schank 1975).
Their approach is to modify Montague'stranslation from English to intensional logic so thatthe resulting expressions have a canonical interpreta-tion in conceptual dependency.
They do not ad-dress such issues as extending Montague's syntax, norwhether their approach can be extended to deal withmore modern Schankian representations (e.g.
Schank1982).
Nevertheless, their work, which they describeas a hesitant first step, is similar in spirit to ours, andit will be interesting to see how it develops.Important recent work that extends the syntac-tic complexity of Montague's work is that on general-ized phrase structure grammar (GPSG)  (Gazdar 1982).Such grammars combine a complex transformation-free syntax with Montague's semantics, the rules againoperating in tandem.
Gawron et al(1982) have imple-mented a database interface based on GFSG.
In theirsystem, the intensional logic of the semantic com-ponent is replaced by a simplified extensional logic,which, in turn, is translated into a query for databaseaccess.
Schubert and Peiletier (1982) have also soughtto simplify the semantic output of a GPSG to a more~conventional" logical form; and Rosenschein andShieber (1982) describe a similar translation processinto extensional logical forms, using a context-freegrammar intended to be similar to a GPSG.
IvThe GPSG approaches differ from ours in thattheir output is a logical form rather than an im-mediate representation of a semantic object; thatis, the output is not tied to any representation ofknowledge.
In Gawron et als system, the database17 Rosenschein and Shieber's emaxltic translation fonow~ pars-ing rather than running in parallel with it, but it iv stronglysyntax-dLrected, and is, it seems, isomorphic to ~n in-t~ndemtranslation that provides no feedback to the p~rser.70provides an interpretation of the logical form, butonly in a weak sense, as the form must first passthrough another (apparently somewhat ad hoc) trans-lation and disambiguati0n process.
Nor do these ap-proaches provide any semantic feedback to the par-set.
is These differences, however, are independent ofthe choice of GPSG; it should be easy, at least in prin-ciple, to modify these approaches to give Frail output,or, conversely, to replace Paragram in our system witha GPSG parser.
19The PSX-KLON~- system of Bobrow and Webber(1980a, 1980b) also has a close coupling between syn-tax and semantics.
Rather than operating in tandem,though, the two are described as "cascaded', with anATN parser handing constituents to a semantic in-terpreter, which is allowed to return them (causingthe ATN to back up) if the purser's choice is foundto be semantically untenable.
Otherwise, a processof incremental description refinement is used to in-terpret the constituent; this relies on the fact thatthe syntactic onstituents are represented in the sameformalism, KL-OSZ (Brachman 1978), as the system'sknowledge base.
The semantic interpreter uses projec-tion rules to form an interpretation in a languagecalled JAaGON, which is then translated into KL-ONZ.Bobrow and Webber are particularly concerned withusing this framework to determine the combinatoricrelationship between quantifiers in a sentence.Bobrow and Webber's approach addresses everalof the issues that we do, in particular the relationshipbetween syntax and semantics.
The information feed-back to the parser is similar to our Semantic EnquiryDesk, though in our system, because the parser isdeterministic, semantic feedback cannot be con flutedwith syntactic success or failure.
Both approaches relyon the fact that the objects manipulated are objects ofa knowledge representation that permits appropriatejudgments to be made, though in rather a differentmanner.Hendler and Phillips (1981; Phillips and Hendler1982) have implemented a control structure for NLU18Gawron et alproduce all pos l ib le  t rees and their  t ran i la t ionsfor the input  sentence,  s.nd then  throw away any that  don' t  makesense to the database.I f 'Our choice of Paragram was largely  pragmat ic~i t  w&s avL/l-?
b le - -and  does not  represent  &ny part icu lar  commitment  tot rans format iona l  g~ammar  s.based on message passing, with the goal of runningsyntax and semantics in parallel and providing seman-tic feedback to the parser.
A ~moderator" trans-lates between syntactic onstructs and semantic repre-sentations.
However, their approach to interpretationis essentially ad hoc (James Hendler, persoaoi cum-munication), and they do not attempt o put syntacticand semantic rules in strict correspondence, nor typetheir semantic objects.None of the work mentioned above addressesissues of lexical ambiguity as ours does, thoughBobrow and Webber's incremental description refine-ment could possibly be extended to cover it.
Also,Gawron et alhave a process to disambiguate case rolesin the logical form after it is complete, which operatesin a manner not dissimilar to the case-slot part ofPolaroid Words.8.
Conc lus ionWe have described a new approach to semantic inter-pretation, one suggested by the semantic formalismof Richard Montague.
We believe this work to be aclean and elegant foundation for semantic interpreta-tion, in contrast to previous ad hoc approaches.
Atthe moment, though, the work is only a foundation;the test of a foundation is what can be constructedon top of it.
We do not expect the construction to beunproblematic; here are some of the problems we willhave to solve.First, the approach is not just compositional butalmost too compositional.
At present, noun phrasesare taken to be invariably and unalterably specificand extensional, that is to imply the existence of theunique entity or set of entities that they specify.
InEnglish, this is not always correct.
A sentence suchas:Nadia owns a unicorn.implies that a unicorn exists, but this is not true of:Nadia talked abou~ a unicorn.which also has a non-specific reading.
Montague'ssolution to this problem does not seem easily adaptable71to Absity.
2?
Similarly, a sentence such as:The lion is not a beast to be trifled w/th.can be a generic statement intended to be true of alllions; Montague did not treat generics.Second, the approach is heavily dependent uponthe expressive power of the underlying frame language.For example, our language, Frail, is yet deficient inits handling of time, and this is clearly reflected inAbsity.
Further, the approach makes certain claimsabout the nature of frame representations~that adescriptive adjective in some sense is a slot-filler pair,for example that might be shown to be untenable.We will also have to deal with problems inquantification, anaphoric reference, and many otherareas.
Nevertheless, we believe that this approach tosemantic interpretation shows considerable promise.AcknowledgememsI am grateful to Eugene Charniak, C~role Chaski, JimHendler, Polly Jacobson, and Nadia Talent for theircomments upon earlier versions of this paper.ReferencesBOBROW, Robert J ~nd WEBBER,  Bonnie Lynn (1980&).
=PSI-KLONE: Pa.rsing and semant ic  interpretat ion in the BBNnatura l  language understa.nding system.
~ l~oceedingsO~ th.c T~ird ~iennial Conference, Co.nadio.n Society/or Computational Studies o\[ \[nte|llgenee / Soei~t~Canadienne pour ~t~des d'Inte~ligence par Ordinateur,Victoria., Ma.y 1980.
131-142.BOBROW, Robert J and WEBBER,  Bonnie Lynn (1980b).
"Knowledge representat ion for syntact ic /semant ic  process-i~g."
P~ociedin~s of ~&e First Anr~a~ lVationa~l Confer-ence 0~ Artif icial  Intelligence, Stanford, August  1980.316-323.BRACHMAN,  Ronald J (1978).
=A structural  pArs.ditto for rep-resenting knowledge.
~ Report 3605, Bolt, Beranek andNewmaJ~, Cambridge, MA 02138.
May 1978.CHARNIAK,  Eugene (1981).
"A common representat ion forproblem-solving and langua.ge-comprehension information.
"Artif icial \[ntelli.gence, 16(3), July 1981, 225-255.CHARNIAK,  Eugene (1983).
~A p~urser with ~omething foreveryone.
~ \[11 in: King, M~gaxet(ed i tor ) .
P~rsingnatt~rallanguage, London: Academic Press, 1983.
\[2\] Tech~ic~lreport CS-70, Department  of Computer  Science, BrownUniversity, Providence, R\[ 02912.
April 1981.CHOMSKY, Avr~m Noa.m (1965).
Aspects of the theOr~l Ofsynta=.
Ca.mbridge, MA: The MIT Press, 1965.20He h~ndled such sentences by having two dist inct parsee,one for each rea.dinK; a mea.ning postulate equa.tes the repre-sentations of the two parses where the verb ma.kes it appropriateto do so.DOWTY, David R; WALL,  Robert Eugene and PETERS,Staaley (1981).
\[ntrodt*ction to Montague semantics (-~-Synthese l~n~u~ge l ibrary 11).
Dordrecht: D. Reidel, 1981.FODOR,  Jerry AlAn (1978).
"Tom Swift and his proceduralgr~nd~other . "
Cognition, 6(3), September 1978, 229-247.FODOR,  Jerry AlaJ1 (1970).
"In reply to Phil ip Johnson-Laird.
"Cognition, T(1), Maxch 1979, 03-95.FRIEDMAN, Joyce; MORAN,  Dougla.s Bailey ~nd WARREN,De.rid Scott (1978a.).
"Explicit finite intensional  models forPTQ.
~ \[I\] American jo~rn?l o/ computational l inguistics,1978:1, microfiche 74, 3-22.
\[2\] Paper N-3, ComputerS~udies in Formal Linguistics, Depzrtment of Computeramd Communion.lion Sciences, University of Michigan, AnnArbor, MI 48109.FRIEDMAN,  Joyce; MORAN,  Douglas Ba~ley and WARREN,Da.vid Scott, (1978b).
=An interpretat ion system forMontague Kr,~mmar."
\[11 Amer ican  yournal of compura-tional linguistics, 1078:1, microfiche 74, 23-96.
(21 Pa.perN-4, Computer  Studies in Formal L inguist ics,  Departmentof Computer  ~nd Communicat ion  Sciences, University ofMichigan , Ann Arbor, MI 48109.FRIEDMAN, Joyce; MORAN,  Douglas Bailey a~d WARREN,D~vid Scott, (1978c).
=EvMuatmg English sentences ina.
logical mode\[: A process version of Mont~gue ~am-max."
{1\] P~oceed~ngs of the 7th International Cor~ferene?on Computational LingtListics, Bergen, Norway, August1978.
\[2} Paper N-15, Computer  Studies in Forma.lLinguistics, Depactment of Computer  cud Communicat ionSciences, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI ~8109.August  1978.GALLIN,  Daniel (1975).
\[ntensional and ~igher-order modallogic ~uith ~pplic~tions ~o Montague sernan~t'cs (~ North-Holland Mathemat ics  Series 9).
Amsterdam: North-Holland, 1975.
{Revised from the a.uthor's doctoraldissertation, Department  of Mathemat ics ,  University ofCaaifornia, Berkeley, September 1972.\]GAWRON, Jea.n Mark; KING, Jona.thon J; LAMP\[NG,  John;LOEBNER,  Egon E; PAULSON,  E Anne; PULLUM,Geoffrey K; SAG, Ivan A and WASOW, Thomas A (1982).
"Processing English with a. genera.lized phrase structuregrammar.
?
Ii\[ Proceedings, gOCh Ann~cL~ 3v\[ee~t'ng ofihe Association for Computational Linguistics, Toronto,June 1982.
74--81.
\[21 Technical note CSL-82-5,  ComputerScience Labors.tory, Hewiett-Packard, Palo Alto, CA94304.
Apri l  ~982.CAZDAR,  Gera~d (1982).
"Phrase structure grammar."
in:JACOBSON, Pa.uline Ida and PULLUM, Geoffrey K. The~attLre Of syntactic representation.
Dordrecht: D. Reidel,1982.GODDEN, Kurt  Sterling (1081).
Montag~?
grgmmar ~ndmachine er~nslation between English and Thai.
Doctoraldissertation, Department  of Linguist ics,  University ofK ansa.s, 1981.HAMBLIN, C L (1973).
=Questions in Montague English."
\[1\[Foundations o/ langt~=g?, 10(1), May 1073, 41-53.
{2\] inPartee 1976, 247-259.HENDLER,  Ja.mes Alexander and PHILLIPS, Brian (1981).=A flexible control structure for the conceptual  analysisof natural  l~nguage using message-passing.
~ Technicalreport TR-08-81-03 ,  Computer  Science Labors.tory, TexasInst ruments  Incorporated, Define, TX 75266, 1981.HIRST, Graeme (1983).
A fot~ndation for se~nantic interp~'eta-tlon, ~ith toord ~nd c~s?
disambigt~ation.
Doctoral disser-tat ion, Department  of Computer  Science, Brown University(forthcoming t.HIRST, Graeme and CHARNIAK,  Eugene (1982).
"Word72sense ~nd case slot disamb/g~ation."
Proceedings of theNational Conference on Artif icial Intelligence, Pittsburgh,August 1982.
95-98.HOBBS, Jerry Robert and ROSENSCHEIN, Stanley Joshua(1977).
=Making computational sense of Monta4~ue'l inten-sional logic."
Artif icial Intelligence, 9(3), December 1977,287-306.JOHNSON-LAIRD, Philip Nicholas (1978).
"What's wrong withGrandma's guide to procedural semantics: A reply to JerryFodor.
~ Cognition, 6(3), September 1978, 249-261.JONES, Mark A ~nd WARREN, David Scott (1982).
"Concep-tual dependency and Montagne ~rammar: A step towardconciliation."
Proceedings of the N~tion?l Conference onArtif icial \[n$elligence, Pittsburgh, Augnst 1982.
79-83.LEHNERT, Wendy Grace ~nd RINGLE, Martin H (1982).Strategies for natural language processing.
Hlllsdale, N J:Lawrence Erlbaum Associates, 1982.MARCUS, Mitchell P (1980).
A theory of sgntactic recognitionfor natv.ral l~nguag?.
Cambridge, MA: The MIT Preu,1980.MONTAGUE, Richard (1973).
"The proper treatment ofquantification in ordinary English."
\[I in: HINTIKKA,Ka~rlo Jaakko Jnhani; MORAVCSIK ,  Julius MatthewEmil ~nd SUPPES, Patrick Colonel (editors).
Approachesto ~tur~l  lang.~age: Proceedings of tAe 1970 Stanfordworkshop on grammar  ~nd semantics.
Dordrecht: D.Reide|, 1973.
221-242.
\[2\] in: THOMASON, RichmondHunt (editor).
Formal philosophll: Selected papers ofRichard Mont~gae.
New Haven: Yale University Press,1974.
247-270.MOORE, Robert C (1981).
"Problems in logical form.
~l~'ocsedings, 191h Annual Meeting of th, e Association forComputational  Linguistics, Stanford, July 1981.
117-124.PARTEE, Baabara Hall (1973).
"Some transformational exten-sions of Montagne ~ammar . "
\[11 J'o~rnal of PhilosophicalLogic, 2, 1973, 509--534.
\[2\] in Psatee 1976, 51-76.PARTEE, Barbara Hall (1975).
"Montagne grammar and trxns-form&tional 6rammar."
Linguistic \[nquirF, 6(2), Spring1975, 203-300.PARTEE, Barbara Hall (editor) (1976) .
Montag~,e grammar.New York: Academic Press, 1976.PHILLIPS, Brian and HENDLER,  James Alexander (1982).
=Amessage-passing control structure for text understandin8.
"in: HORECK~' ,  J~n (editor).
COLING 8?
: Proceedingsof the NintA Internat ional  Conference on ComputationalLinguistics, Prague, July 5--10, 198?
(= North-Hol landLinguistic Series 47).
Amsterdam: North-Holland, 1982.307-312.ROSENSCHEIN,  Stanley Joshua ~nd SHIEBER, Stuart M(1982).
"Translating English into logical form."
P~oceedin~s,~O~h Annual Meeting of the Association for ComputationalLinguistics, Toronto, June 1982. i-8.SCHANK, Roger Carl (editor) (1975).
Conceptual informationprocessing (~ Fundamental  studies in computer science 3).Amsterdam: North-Holland, 1975.SCHANK, Roger Carl (1982).
"Reminding and memory or-ganization: An introduction to MOPs."
\[I\] in Lehnertand Ringle 1982, 455-494.
\[2\] Research Report 170,Department of Computer Science, Yale University, NewHaven, CT 06520.
December 1979.SCHUBERT, Lenhaxt K and PELLETIER, Francis Jeffry (1982).
"From English to logic: Context-free computation of'conventional' logical translation."
American Journal ofComputational Linguistics, 8(1), January-March 1982,26--44.SMITH, Brian Cantwell (1979).
"Intensionality in computa-tional contexts."
Unpublished MS, Artificial intelligenceLaboratory, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cam-bridge, MA 02139.
December 1979.TARNAWSKY; George Orest (1982).
Kno~oledgs emantics.Doctoral dissertation, Department of Linguistics, NewYork University, 1982.WILKS, Yorick Alexander (1982).
"Some thoughts on proce-dural semantics."
\[I\] in Lehnert and Ringle 1982, 494-518.
{21 Technical report CSCM-I, Cognitive StudiesCentre, University of Essex, Wivenhoe Park, Colchester.November 1980.WONG, Douglas (1981~).
=Language comprehension i  aproblem solver."
l~roceedings of the 7th InternationalJoint Conference on Artif icial \[ntelligence, Vancouver,August 1981.
7-12.WONG,  Douglas (1981b).
On the ~nif leation of languagecomprehension ~oitA problem solving.
Doctoral dissertaetion \[ava41able as technical report CS-78\], Department ofComputer Science, Brown University, 1981.WOODS, William Aaron Jr (1967).
Semantics for a qucs~ion-~nstosring system.
{1\] Doctoral dissertation, HarvardUniversity, August 1967.
\[2\] reprinted as a volume in theseries Outstanding dissertations in the Computer Sciences,New York: Garland Publishing, 1979.WOODS, William Aaron Jr (1968).
"Procedural semantics for aquestion-answering machine."
AFIPS conference proceed-ings, 33 (Fall Joint Computer Conference), 1968.
457-471.73
