Formal Constraints on Metarules*Stuart M. Shieber, Susan U. Stucky, Hans Uszkoreit, and Jane J. RobinsonSRI International333 Ravenswood AvenueMenlo Park, CaliforniaAbst rac tMetagrammaticai formalisms that combine context-freephrase structure rules and metarules (MPS grammars) allow con-cise statement of generalizations about the syntax of natural an-guages.
Unconstrained MPS grammars, tmfortunately, are notcornputationally "safe."
We evaluate several proposals for con-straining them, basing our amae~ment on computational trac-tability and explanatory adequacy.
We show that none of themsatisfies both criteria, and suggest new directions for research onalternative metagrammatical formalisms.1.
In t roduct ionThe computational-linguistics community has recentlyshown interest in a variety of metagrammatical formalisms forencoding grammars of natural language.
A common techniquefound in these formalisms involves the notion of a metarule,which, in its most common conception, is a device used togenerate grammar rules from other given grammar rules.
1 Ametarule is essentially a statement declaring that, if a grammarcontains rules that match one specified pattern, it also containsrules that match some other specified pattern.
For example, thefollowing metarule(1) VP - .
.V VP ~ VP-*Y  ADVP VP\[+/;-I\[+o.~istates that, if there is a rule that expands a finite VP into afinite auxiliary and a nonfinite VP, there will also be a rulethat expands the VP  as before except for an additional adverbbetween the auxiliary and the nnnfinite VP.
2 The patterns maycontain variables, in which case they characterize "families ~ ofrelated rules rather than individual pairs.
*This reeearch was supported by the National Science Foundation grant No.IST-8103550.
The views and conclusions expressed in this document arethose of the authors and should not be interpreted as represent,.tive of theviews of the National Science Foundation or the United States government.We are indebted to Fernando Pereira, Stanley Peters, and StanleyRoscnscheln for many helpful discun~ons leading to the writing of this paper.IMetarules were first utilized for natural-language research and are mostextensively developed within the theory of Generalized Phrase StructureGrammar (GPSG) \[Ga2dar end Pullum, 1082; Gawron et ~., 1982;Thompson.
1082 I.2A metarule similar to our example was proposed by Gazdar, Pullum, andsag \[10s2, p. oorl.The metarule notion is a seductive one, intuitively allowinggeneralizations about the grammar of a language to be statedconcisely.
However, unconstrained metarule formalisms maypossess more expressive power than is apparently needed, and,moreover, they are not always compatationally "safe."
For ex-ample, they may generate infinite sew of rules and describe ar-bitrary languages, lu this paper we examine both the formaland linguistic implications of various constraints on metagram-matical formalisms consisting of a combination of context-freephrase structure rules and metarules, which we will call metarulephrase.structure (MPS\] grammars.The term "MPS grammar" is used in two ways in thispaper.
An MPS grammar can be viewed as a grammar in itsown right that characterizes a language directly.
Alternatively,it can be viewed as a metagrammar, that is, as a generator ofa phrase structure obiect grammar, the characterized languagebeing defined as the language of the object grammar.Uszkoreit and Peters \[1982\] have developed a formaldefinition of MPS grammars and have shown that an uncon-strained MPS grammar can encode any recursively enumerablelanguage.
As long am the framework for grammatical descrip-tion is not seen am part of a theory of natural language, thisfact may not alt'ect he usefulness of MPS grammars am tools forpurely descriptive linguistics research; however, it has direct andobvious impact on those doing research in a computational ortheoretical linguistic paradigm.
Clearly, some way of constrain-ing the power of MPS grammars is necessary to enable their usefor encoding grammars in a ?omputationally feasible way.
Inthe sections that follow, we consider several formal proposals forconstraining their power and discuss ome of their computationaland linguistic ramifications.In our discussion of the computational ramifications of theproposed constraints, we will use the notion of weak-generativecapacity as a barometer of the expressive power of a formalism.Other notions of expre~ivity are possible, although some ofthe traditional ones may not be applicable to MPS grammars.Strong*generative capacity, for instance, though well-defined,seems to be an inadequate notion for comparison of MPS gram-mars, since it would have to be extended to include informa-tion about rule derivations am well am tree derivations.
Similarly,we do not mean to imply by our arguments that the class ofnatural languages corresponds to some class that ranks low inthe Chomsky hierarchy merely because the higher classes are lessconstrained in weak-generative power.
The appropriate charac-terization of possible natural languages may not coincide at all22with the divisions in the Chomsky hierarchy.
Nevertheless weak-generative capacity--the weakest useful metric of capacity--willbe the primary concern of this paper as a well-defined andrelevant standard for measuring constraints.2.
Constraints by Change of PerspectivePeters and Ritchie \[1973\] have pointed out that context-sensitive grammars have no more than context-free power whentheir rules are viewed as node-admissibility conditions.
Thissuggests that MPS grammars might be analogously constrainedby regarding the metarules as something other than phruse-structure grammar generators.
A brief examination of threealternative approaches indicates, however, that none of themclearly yields any useful constraints on weak-generative capacity.Two of the alternatives discussed below consider metarules to bepart of the grammar itself, rather than as part of the metagramomar.
The third views them as a set of redundant generalizationsabout the grammar.Stucky \[forthcoming\] investigates the possibility of definingmetarules as complex node-admissibility conditions, which shecalls meta, node-admissibility conditions.
Two computationallydesirable results could ensue, were this reinterpretation possible.Because the metarules do not generate rules under the meta,node-admissibility interpretation, it follows that there will beneither a combinatorial explosion of rules nor any derivationresulting in an infinite set of rules (both of which are potentialproblems that could arise under the original generative inter-pretation).For this reinterpretation to have a computationally tract-able implementation, however, two preconditions must be met.First, an independent mechanism ust be provided that assig~to any string a finite set of trees, including those admitted bythe metarules together with the bmm rules.
Second, a proceduremust be defined that checks node admissibilities according to thebase rules and metarules of the grammar--and that terminates.\[t is this latter condition that we snspect will not be possiblewithout constraining the weak-generative capacity of MPS gram-mars.
Thus, this perspective does not seem to change the basicexpressivity problems of the formalism by itself.A second alternative, proposed by Kay \[1982\], is one inwhich metarules are viewed as chart-manipulating operators ona chart parser.
Here too, the metarules are not part of ametagrammar that generates a context-free grammar; rather,they constitute a second kind of rule in the grammar.
Justlike the meta-node-admissibility interpretation, Kay's explics-t, ion seems to retain the basic problem of expressive power,though Kay hints at a gain in efficiency if the metarules arecompiled into a finite-state transducer.Finally, an alternative that does not integrate metarulesinto the object grammar but, on the other hand, does not as-sign them a role in generating an object grammar either, is toview them as redundancy statements describing the relationshipsthat hold among rules in the full grammar.
This interpretationeliminates the problem of generating infinite rule sets that gaverise to the Uszkoreit and Peters results.
However, it is difficultto see how the solution supports a computationally useful notionof metarules, since it requires that all rules of the grammar bestated explicitly.
Confining the role of metarules to that of stat-ing redundancies prevent~ their productive application, so thatthe metarules erve no clear computational purpose for grammarimplementation.
3We thus conclude that, in contrust to context-sensltivegrammar,  in which an alternative interpretation of the phrusestructure rules makes a difference in weak-generative capacity,MPS grammars do not seem to benefit from the reinterpretationswe have investigated.3.
For :ha l  Constraints~.
a, e it appears unlikely that a reinterpretation of MPSgrammars can be found that solves their complexity problem,formal constraints on the MPS formalism itself have to be ex-plored if we want to salvage the basic concept of metarules.
Inthe following examination of currently proposed constraints, thetwo criteria for evaluation are their effects on computational trac-tability and on the ezplanatory adcquaeltof the formalism.As an example of constraints that satisfy the criterion ofcomputational tractability but not that of explanatory adequacy,we examine the issue of essential variables.
These are variables inthe metarule pattern that can match an arbitrary string of itemsin a phrase structure rule.
Uszkoreit and Peters have shown that,contrary to an initial conjecture by Jcehi (see \[Gazdar, 1982,fn.
28\]), allowing even one such variable per metarule xtendsthe power of the formalism to recursive numerability.
Gazdarhas recommended \[1982, p.160\] that the power of metarules becontrolled by eliminating essential variables, exchanging themfor abbreviatory variables that can stand only for strings in afinite and cztrinsieally determined range.
This constraint yieldsa computationslly tractable system with only context-free power.Exchanging essential for abbreviatory variables is not,however, as attractive a prospect as it appears at first blush.Uszkoreit and Peters \[1982\[ show that by restricting MFS gram-mars to using abbreviatory variables only, some significantgeneralizations are lost.
Consider the following metarule thatis proposed and motivated in \[Gazdar 1982\] for endowing VSOlanguages with the category VP.
The metarule generates fiatVSO sentence rules from VP rules.
(2) VP- .V  U~ S- .V  NPUSince U is an abbreviatory variable, its range needs to be statedexplicitly.
Let us imagine 'h:,t the VSO language in question hasthe follo~ ;~ small set of VF  rules:(3) w ,'~VP -- V NPvP- .
V-~VP -.
V VPVP  -.
V NP  V-PTherefore, the range of U has to be {e, NP, ~, \]77~, NP  V'P}.3As statements about the object ~'~mmar, however, metxrules might plays role in language acquisition or in dia~hronie processes.23If these VP rules are the only rules that satisfy the left-hand side of (2), then (2) generates exactly the same rules am itwould if we declared U to be an essential variable--i.e., let itsrange be (Vr O VN) ?.
But now imagine that the language adoptsa new subcategorizatiun frame for verbs, 4e.g., a verb that takesan NP  and an S am complements.
VP rule (4) is added:(4) VP - -  I/" NP -SMetarule (2) predicts that VPs headed by this verb do not havea corresponding fiat V$O sentence rule.
We will have to changethe metarule by extending the range of U in order to retain thegeneralization originally intended by the metarule.
Obviously,our metarule did not encode the right generalization (a simpleintension-extensiun problem).This shortcoming nun also surface in cases where the inputto a metarule is the output of another metaruh.
It might bethat metarule (2) not only applies to basic verb rules but alsoincludes the output of, say, a passive rule.
The range of thevariable \[.r would have to be extended to cover these tames too,and, moreover, might have to be altered if its feeding metaruleschange.Thus, if the restriction to abbreviatury variables is to haveno effect on the weak-gensrative capacity of a grammar, therange assigned to each variable must include the range thatwould have actually instantiated the variable on an expansion ofthe MPS grammar in which the variable was treated as essential.The assignment of a range to the variable can only be done po,t/actum.
This would be a satisfactory result, were it not for thefact that finding the necessary range of a variable in this wayis an undecidable problem in general.
Thus, to exchange ssen-tial for abbreviatory variables is to risk affecting the generativecapacity of the grammar~with quite unintultive and unpredict-able results.
In short, the choice is among three options: to affectthe language of the grammar in ways that are linguistically un-moti~at4ed and arbitrary, to solve an undecidable problem, orto discard the notion of exchanging essential for abbreviatoryvariables--in effect, a Hobsun's choice.An example of a constraint hat satisfies the secondcriterion, that of explanatory adequacy, hut not the first, com-putational tractability, is the leziesl-head constraint of GPSG\[Gazdar and Pullum, 1982\[.
This constraint allows metarulesto operate only on rules whose stipulated head is a lexical(preterminal) category.
Since the Uszkoreit and Peters results areachieved even under this restriction to the formalism, the cowstraint does not provide a solution to the problem of expressivepower.
Of course, this is no criticism of the proposal, since it wasnever intended as a formal restriction on the class of languages,but rather ~ a restriction un linguistically motivated grammars.Unfortunal,ely, the motivation behind even this use of the lexical-head constraint may be lacking.
One of the few analyses thatrelies on the lexical-head constraint is a recent GPSG analysis ofcoordination and extraction in English (Gazdar, 1981\].
In thisease--indeed, in general-one could achieve the desired effectsimply by specifying that the coefficient of the bar feature belezical.
It remains to be seen whether the constraint must beimposed for enough metarules o as to justify its incorporationas a general principle.Even with such motivation one might raise a questionabout the advisability of the lexical-head constraint on a meta-theoretical level.
The linguistic intuition behind the constraintis that the role of metarules i  to "express generalizations aboutpossibilities of subeategorizatiun" exclusively \[Gaadar, Klein,Pullum, and Sag, 1982, p.391, e.g., to express the p~mive-activerelation.
This result is said to follow from principles of ~ syntax\[Jackendoff, 1077\], in which just those categories that are sub-categorized for are siblings of a lexieal head.
However, in a lan-guage with freer word order than English, categories other thanthose subcategorized for will be siblings of lexieal heads; theywould, thus, be affected by metarules even under the lexical-headconstraint.
This result will certainly follow from the liberationrule approach to free word order \[Pullum, 1982\].
The originallinguistic generalization i tended by the hxical-head constraint,therefore, will not hold cross-linguistically.Finally, there is the current proposal of the GPSG com-munity for constraining the formal powers of metarules by al-lowing each metaruh to apply only once in a derivation of arule.
Originally dubbed the once.through hgpothe~is, this con-straint is now incorporated" into GPSG under the name finiteclosure \[Gazdar and Pullum, 1982\].
Although linguistic evidencefor the constraint has never been provided, the formal motiva-tion is quite strong because, under this constraint, he metaruleformalism would have only context-free power.Several linguistic constructions present problems withrespect o the adequacy of the finite-closure hypothesis.
For in-stance, the liberation rule technique for handling free-word-orderlanguages {Pullum, 1982\] would require ffi noun-phrase liberationrule to be applied twice in a derivation of a rule with siblingnoun phrases that permute their subconstituents freely amongone another.
As a hypothetical example of this phenomenon, letus suppose that English allowed relative clauses to be extraposedin general from noun phrases, instead of allowing just one ex-traposifion.
For instance, in this quasi-English, the sentence(5) Two children are chasing the dog who are small that ishere.would he a grammatical paraphrase of(0) Two children who are small axe chasing the dog that ishere.Let us suppose further that the analysis of this phenomenoninvolved liberation of the NP-S substructure ofthe noun phrasesfor incorporation i to the main sentence.
Then the noun-phraseliberation rule would apply once to liberate the subject nounphrase, once again to liberate the object noun phrase.
That theseare not idle concerns is demonstrated by the following sentencein the free-word-order Australian aboriginal language Warlpiri.
s4Note that it does not matter whether the grammar writer discovers anadditional subcateKorization, or the language develops one diachronically;the same problem obtains.
5This example is t,.ken from \[van Riemsdijk, 1981\].24(7) Kutdu-jarra-rlu ks-pals maliki wita-jarra-rluchiId-DUAL-ERG AUX:DUAL dog-ABS smalI-DUAL-ERGyalumpu wajilipi-nyithat-ABS chase=NONPASTTwo 8mall children are cha,ing that dog.The Warlpiri example is analogous to the quasi-Englishexample in that both sentences have two discontinuous NPs  inthe same distribution.
Furthermore, the liberation rule approachhas been proposed as a method of modeling the free word orderof Waripiri.
Thus, it appears that finite closure is not consistentwith the liberation rule approach to free word order.Adverb distribution presents another problem for thehypothesis.
In German, for example, and to a lesser extent inEngiish, an unbounded number of adverbs can be quite freelyinterspersed with the complements of a verb.
The followingGerman sentence is an extreme xample of this phenomenon\[Uszkoreit, 1982\].
The sequence of its major constituents is givenunder (9).
(8) Gestern hatte in dec Mittagspauseyesterday had during lunch breakder Brigadier in dec Werkzeugkammerthe foreman (NOM) in the tool shopdam Labeling au~ Boehaftigkeit lancaamthe apprentice (DAT) maliciously slowlyzehn schmierige Gasseisenscbeiben u bemerktten greasy cast iron disks (ACC) unnoticedin die Hosentasche gestecktin the pocket put)'*aerdav, durin~ lunch break in the tool shop, theforeman, malicioedy and unnoticed, put ten grea,y caJtiron disks tlowist into the apprentice's pocket.
(9) ADVP VrrN ADVP NPsuu J  ADVP NProa J  ADVPADVP NPDoa.t ADVP PP VIN eA metarule might therefore be proposed that inserts asingle adverb in a verb-phrase rule.
Repeated applicationof this rule (in contradiction to the finite-closure hypothesis)would achieve the desired effect.
To maintain the finite-closurehypothesis, we could merely extend the notion of context-freerule to allow regular expressions on the right-hand side of arule.
The verb phrase rule would then be accurately, albeitclumsily, expressed as, say, VP -.
* V NP  ADVP*  or VP -*V NP  ADVP*  PP  ADVP*  for ditransitives.Similar constructions in free-word-order languages do notpermit such naive solutions.
As an example, let us considerthe Japanese causative.
In this construction, the verb sutRx"-sase" signals the causativization f the verb, allowing an extraNP argument.
The process is putatively unbounded (ignoringperformance limitations).
Furthermore, Japanese allows the NPsto order freely relative to one another (subject o considerationsof ambiguity and focus), so that a fiat structure with some kindof extrinsic ordering is presumably preferable.One means of achieving a fiat structure with extrinsicordering is by using the ID/LP formalism, a subformalism ofGPSG that allows immediate dominance (ID) information to bespecified separately from linear precedence (LP) notions.
(Cf.context-free phrase structure grammar, which forces a strict one-to-one correlation between the two types of information.)
IDinformation isspecified by context-free style rules with unorderedright-hand sides, notated, e.g., .4 ~ B, C, D. LP informa,Aon isspecified as a partial order over the nonterminals in the ..orr-,m ax,notated, e.g., B < C (read B precedes C).
These two rulescan be viewed as schematizing a set of three context-free rules,namely, A - -  B C D, A - -  B D C, and A - -  D B C.Without a causativization metarule that can operate morethan once, we might attempt to use the regular expression ota-tion that solved the adverb problem.
For example, we mightpostulate the ID rule VP - ,  NP* ,  V, sane* with the LP rela-tion NP < V < sase, but no matching of NPs  with sasesis achieved.
We might attempt to write a liberation rule thatpulls NP.saee pairs from a nested structure into a flat one,but this would violate the finite-closure hypothesis (as well asPullum's requirement precluding liberation through a recursivecategory).
We could attempt o use even more of the power ofregular-expression rules with ID/LP, i.e., VP - ,  {NP, 8a,e} ?, Vunder the same LP relation.
The formalism presupposed by thisanalysis, however, has greater than context-free power, ?
so thatthis solution may not be desirable.
Nevertheless, it should notbe ruled out before the parsing properties of such a formalismare understood.
T Gunji's analysis of Japanese, which attemptsto solve such problems with the multiple application of a tlashintroduction metarule \[Gunji, 1980 l, again raises the problem ofviolating the 6nite-closure hypothesis (as well as being incom-patible with the current version of GPSG which disallows mul-tiple slashes).
Finally, we could always move ca~ativization intothe lexicon as a lexical rule.
Such a move, though it does cir-cumvent he difficulty in the syntax, merely serves to move itelsewhere without resolving the basic problem.Yet another alternative involves treating the right-hand~ides of phrase structure rules as sets, rather than multisets as isimplicit in the ID/LP format.
Since the nonterminal vocabularyis finite, right-hand sides of ID rules must be subsets of a finiteset and therefore finite sets themselves.
This hypothesis is quitesimilar in effect o the finite-closure hypothesis, albeit even morelimited, and thus inherits the same problems aa were discussedabove.4.
The U l t imate  Solut ionAn obvious way to constrain MPS grammar, isto eliminatemetarules entirely and replace them with other mechanisms.
Infact, within the GPSG paradigm, several of the functions ofmetarules have been replaced by other metagrammatical devices.Other functions have not, as of the writing of this paper, though8For instance, the grammar  $ ~ {a,b,e} e with a < b < ?
generatesanb~en"7Shieber \[forthcoming\] provides an ~l&orithm for parsing ID/LP grammarsdirectly that includes a method for utilizing the Kleene star device.
Itcould be extended to even more of the regular expression otation, thoughthe effect of such extenslon-on the time complexity of the algorithm is anopen question.25it i$ instructive ~.o co=ider ~.he c~es covered ~y this cia~s.
Inthe discussion to follow we have isolated thxee of the primaryfunctions of metarules.
This is not intended az an exhaustivetaxonomy, and certain metarules may manifest more than oneof these functions.First, we consider generalizations over linear order.
Ifmetarules are metagrammatical statements about rules encod-ing linear order, they may relate rules that differ only in thelinear order of categories.
With the introduction of ID/LP for-mat, however, the hypothesis i, that this latter metagrammaticaldevice will suffice to account for the linear order among the cat-egories within rules.
For instance, the problematic adverb andcausative metarnles could be replaced by extended contex.t-freerules with \[D/LP, as was suggested in Section 3 above.
Shieber\[forthcoming\[ has shown that a pure ID/LP formalism (withoutmetarules, Kleene star, or the like) is no le~ computationallytractable than context-free grammars themselves.
Although wedo not yet know what the consequences of incorporating theextended context-free rules would be for computational com-plexity, ID/LP format can be used to replace certain word-order-variation metarules.A second function of metarnles wa~ to relate sets of rulesthat differed only in the values of certain specifed features.
Ithas been suggested \[Gat~iar and Pullum 1982\] that such featuresare distributed according to certain general principles.
For in-stance, the slash-propagation metarule haz been replaced by thedistribution of slash features in accord with such a principle.A third function of metarules under the original interpreta-tion has not been relegated to other metagr~nmatical devices.\Ve have no single device to suggest, though we axe exploringalternative ways r,o account for the phenomena.
Formally, thisthird class can be characterized as comprising those metaculesthat relate sets of rules in which the number of categories on theright- and left-hand sides of rules differ.
It is this sort of metarulethat is essential for the extension of GPSGs  beyond context-freepower in the Uszkoreit and Peters proofs {1982\].
Simply requiringthat such metarules be disallowed would not resolve the linguisticissues, however, since this constraint would inherit the problemsconnected with the regular expression and set notations discussedin Section 3 above.
This third cl~s further breaks down into twocases: those that have different parent categories on the right-and left-hand sides of the metarule and those that have the samecategory on both sides.
The ~rst c~e includes those liberationrules that figure in analyses of free-word-order phenomena, plussuch other rules as the subject-auxiliary-inversion metarule inEnglish.
Uszkoreit \[forthcoming\] is exploring a method for isolat-ing liberation rules in a separate metagrammaticul formalism.
Italso appears that the subject-auxiliary inversion may be analyzedby already existing principles governing the distribution of fea-tures.
The second case (those in which the categories on theright- and left-hand sides are the same) includes such analysesas the passive in English.
This instance, at least, might be re-placed by a lexicai-redundancy rule.
Thus, no uniform solutionhas yet been found for this third function of metarules.We conclude that it may be possible to replace MPS-stylemetagrammatical formalisms entirely without losing generaliza-tion~.
'~Ve ~re consequently pursuing re~eaxcu tu ~u,o o~,,.5.
ConclusionThe formal power of metaxule formalisms is clearly animportant consideration for computational linguists.
Uszkoreitand Pet.era \[1982\] have shown that the potential exists fordefining metarule formalisms that are computationally "unsafe.
"However, these results do not sound a death knell for metarules.On  the contrary, the safety of metarule formalisms is still anopen question.
We have merely shown that the constraints onmetarules necessary to make them formally tractable will have tobe based on empirical inguiaic evidence as well as solid formalresearch.
The solutions to constraining metarules analyzed hereseem to be either formally or linguistically inadequate.
Furtherresearch is needed in the actual uses of metarules and in con-structions that axe problematic for metarules o ~ to developeither linguistically motivated and computationally interestingconstraints on the formalisms, or alternative formalisms that axelinguistically adequate but not heir to the problems of metaxules.ReferencesGawron, J. M., et al.
1982: ~Processing English with a GeneralizedPhrase Structure Grammar," in Proceedings a/ the 20thAnnual ,$feetin7 of the Association /or Computational Linfuistic$,University of Toronto, Toronto, Canada (15-18 June}.Gazdar.
G., 1982: "Phrase Structure Grammar," in P. Jacobson andG.
Putlum, eds., The Nature of Syntactic Rcvresentation (Reidel,Oordrecht, Holland).Gazdar, G.. E. Klein, G.K. Pullum, and I.A.
Sag, 1982: "CoordinateStructure and Unbounded Dependencies," in M. Barlow, D.P.Flickinger, and LA.
Sag, eds., Devdopment~ in Generalized Phraa~S\[rueture Grammar, Stanford Working Papers in GrammaticalTheory, Volume 2 (Indiana University Linguistics Club,Bloomington, Indiana, November).Gazdar.
G. and G.K. Pullum.
1981: "Subcategorization, ConstituentOrder and the Notion 'Head'," in M. Moortgat, H.v.d.
Hulstand T. Hockstra, eds., T/ze Scape of Le:ical Rules, pp.
107-123(Foris, Dordr~ht, Holland).Gazdar.
G. and G.K. Pullum, 1982: "Generalized Phrase StructureGrammar:.
A Theoretical Synopsis,* (Indiana UniversityLinguistics Club, Bloomington, Indiana, August).Gazdar, G., G.K. Pullum, and LA.
Sag, 1982: "Auxiliaries and relatedphenomena," Languafe, Volume 58, Number 3, pp.591-~38.Gunji, T., 1980- "A Phr~me Structure Analysis of the JapaneseLanguage," M. A. dissertation, Ohio State University,Columbus, Ohio.Jackendoff, R., 1977: "~ Syntax," I, inyui~tie Inquiry Monograph 2, (MITPress, Cambridge, M~sachusetts).Kay, M., 1982: "When Meta-Rules are Not Meta-Rules," in M.\[~arlow, D.P.
Flickinger, and I.A.
Sag, eds., Devdopment#in G?ncrati:?d Phrase Structure Grammar, Stanford Working26Papers in Grammatical Theory, Volume 2 (Indiana UniversityLinguistics Club, Bloomington, Indiana, November).Peters, S. and R.W.
Ritchie, 1073: "Context-Sensitive ImmediateConstituent Analysk: Context-Free Languages Revisited," inMathematical SVmtem# Theory, 31"oi.
6, No.
4, pp.
324-333(Springer-Verlag, New York).Peters, S. and R.W.
Ritchie, forthcoming:.
"Phrase-LinkingGramma/,s.
mPullum, G.K., 1982: "Free Word Order and Phrase Structure Rules,"J. Pustejovsky and P. Sells, eds., Proescdlnfe o/ Iae T~dflhAnnual Msetlnl o/ ths North Eulern Linfuimti?
Society, (GraduateLinguistics Student Association, University of Ma~achusetts,Amherst, Massachusetts).Shieber, S., forthcoming: "Direct Parsing of ID/LP Grammars.
"Stueky, S., forthcoming:.
"Metarules as Meta-Node-AdmimsibilityConditions.
"Thompson, H., 1982: "Handling Metarules in a Parser for GPSG," inM.
Barlow, D.P.
Flickinger, and \[.A.
Sag, eds., De~dopment:in Generalized Phra#e Structure Grammar, Stanford WorkingPapers in Grammatical Theory, Volume 2 {Indiana UniversityLinguistics Club, Bloomington, Indiana, November).Uszkoreit, H., forthcoming:.
"Constituent Liberation.
"Uszkoreit, H. and S.J.
Peters, 1982: "Essential Variables in Metarules,"presented at the 1982 Annual Meeting of the Linguistic Societyof America, San Diego, California (December).van Riemsdijk, H., 1981: "On 'Adjacency' in Phonology and Syntax,"in V.A.
Burke and J. Pustejovsky, erie., Proceedinfw o\[ theEleventh Annual Msetinf o/the North E~lern Linfuiatie Society,University of Mmssachusetts, Amherst, Massachusetts, pp.
399-413 {April).27
