PROVID ING A UNIF IED ACCOUNT OFDEF IN ITE  NOUN PHRASES IN  D ISCOURSEBarbara J. Grosz,M'tificial Intelligence CenterSRI InternationalMenlo Park.
CAAravind K. JoshiDept.
of Computer and Information ScienceUniversity of PennsylvaniaPhiladelphia, PAScott WcinsteinDept.
of PhilosophyUniversity of PennsylvaniaPhiladelphia, PA1.
Overv iewLinguistic theories typically assign various linguisticphenomena to one of the categories, syntactic, semantic,or pragmatic, as if the phenomena in each category wererelatively independent of those in the others.
However,various phenomena in discourse do not seem to yieldcomfortably to any account that is strictly a syntactic orsemantic or pragmatic one.
This paper focuses onparticular phenomena of this sort - the use of variousreferring expressions uch as definite noun phrases andpronouns-and examines their interaction withmechanisms used to maintain discourse coherence.Even a casual survey of the literature on definitedescriptions and referring expressions reveals not onlydefects in the individual accounts provided by theorists(from several different disciplines), but also deepconfusions about the roles that syntactic, semantic, andpragmatic factors play in accounting for thesephenomena.
The research we have undertaken is anattempt o sort out some of these confusions and to createthe basis for a theoretical framework that can account fora variety of discourse phenomena in which all threefactors of language use interact.
The major premise onwhich our research depends is that the concepts necessaryfor an adequate understanding of the phenomena inquestion are not exclusively either syntactic or semanticor pragmatic.The next section of this paper defines two levels ofdiscourse coherence and describes their roles in accountingfor the use of singular definite noun phrases.
To illustratethe integration of factors in explaining the uses ofreferring expressions, their use on one of these levels, i.e.,the local one, is discussed in Sections 3 and 4.
Thisaccount requires introducing the notion of the centers of asentence in a discourse, a notion that cannot be defined interms of factors that are exclusively syntactic or semanticor pragmatic.
In Section 5, the interactions of the twolevels with these factors and their effects on the uses ofreferring expressions in discourse are discussed.2.
The  E f fec ts  o f  D i f fe rent  Leve ls  o f  D iscourseCoherenceA discourse comprises utterances that combine intosubconstituents of the discourse, namely, units ofdiscourse that are typically larger than a single sentence,but smaller than the complete discourse.
However, theconstituent structure is not determined solely by thelinear sequence of utterances.
It is common for twocontiguous utterances to be members of differentsubconstituents of the discourse (as with breaks betweenphrases in the syntactic analysis of a sentence); likewise, itis common for two utterances that are not contiguous tobe members of the same subconstituent.An individual subcoastituent of a discourse xhibits bothinternal coherence and coherence with the othersubconstituents.
That is, discourses have been shown tohave two levels of coherence.
Global coherence refers tothe ways in which the larger segments of discourse relateto one another.
It depends on such things as the functionof a discourse, its subject matter, and rhetorical schema\[Grosz, 1977, 1981; Reichman, 1981 I.
Local coherencerefers to the ways in which individual sentences bindtogether to form larger discourse segments.
It depends onsuch things as the syntactic structure of an utterance,ellipsis, and the use of pronominal referring expressions\[Sidner, 1981 I.The two levels of discourse coherence correspond to twolevels of focusing--global focusing and centering.Participants are said to be globally focused on a set ofentitie.~ relevant to the overall discourse.
These entitiesmay either have been explicitly introduced into thediscourse or be sufficiently closely related to such entitiesto be considered implicitly in focus \[Grosz, 19811 .
Incontrast, centering refers to a more local focusing process,one relates to identifying the single entity that anindividual utterance most centrally concerns \[Sidner,1979; Joshi and Weinstein, 1981\].IThis research was supported in part by the National ScienceFoundation under Grant MCS-8115105 to SRI International, andGrant MCS81-07290 to the University of Pennsylvania.44The two levels of focusing/coherence have differenteffects on the processing of pronominal andnonpronominal definite noun phrases.
Global coherenceand focusing are major factors in the generation andinterpretation of nonpronominal def'lnite referringexpressions.
2 Local coherence and centering have greatereffect on the processing of pronominal expressions.
InSection 5 we shall describe the rules governing the use ofthese kinds of expressions and shall explain whyadditional processing by the hearer (needed for drawingadditional inferences} is involved when pronominalexpressions are used to refer to globally focused entities ornonpronominal expressions are used to refer to centeredentities.Many approaches to language interpretation haveignored these differences, depending instead on powerfulinference mechanisms to identify the referents of referringexpressions.
Although such approaches may suffice,especially for well-formed texts, they are insufficient ingeneral.
In particular, such approaches will not work forgeneration.
Here the relationships among focusing,coherence, and referring expressions are essential andmust be explicitly provided for.
Theories-and systemsbased on them--will generate unacceptable uses ofreferring expressions if they do not take theserelationships into account.
33.
Center ing  and  AnaphoraIn our theory, the centers of a sentence in a discourseserve to integrate that sentence into the discourse.
Eachsentence, S, has a single backward-looking center, Cb(S),and a set of forward-looking centers, Cf(S).
Cb(S) servesto link S to the preceding discourse, while Cf(S) providesa set of entities to which the succeeding discourse may belinked.
To avoid confusion, the phrase =the center" willbe used to refer only to Cb(S).To clarify the notion of center, we will consider anumber of discourses illustrating the various factors thatare combined in its definition (abstractly) and in itsidentification in a discourse.
In Section 5 we define centermore precisely, show how it relates to Sidner's \[1981\]immediate focus and potential oci, and discuss how thelinkages established by the centers of a sentence help todetermine the degree of intelligibility of a discourse.
Webegin by showing that the center cannot be defined insyntactic terms alone.
The interaction of semantics andcentering is more complex and is discussed in Section 4.The following examples, drawn from Reinhart \[1982\],illustrate the point that the notion of center is notsyntactically definable, 4 i.e., the syntax of a sentence Sdoes not determine which of its NPs realizes Cb(S).
(The2They differ in other respects also.
Reichman \[19811 a~d Grosz\[19811 discuss some of these.3Initial attempts to incorporate focusing mechanisms in generationsystems are described in \[Appelt, 1981 and MeKeown, 1982\].41ntonation can obviously affect the interpretation; for thepurposes of this paper, it may be regarded a~ part of a syntax.reasons for the use of this terminology axe discussed inSection 4.
)(t&) Who did Max see yesterday?
( lb)  Max saw Rosa.
(2a) Did anyone see Ros& yesterday?
(2b) Max s~w Rosa.Although (lb) and (2b) are identical, Cb(lb) is Max andCb(2b) is Rosa.
This can be seen in part by noticing that=He saw Rosa" seems more natural than (lb) and =Maxsaw her" than (2b) (a fact consistent with the centeringrule introduced in Section 5.)
The subject NP is thecenter in one context, the object NP in the other.Even when the NP used to realize Cb(S) can besyntactically determined, the Cb(S) itself is not yet fullydetermined, for Cb(S) is typically not a linguistic entity(i.e., it is not a particular linguistic expression).
Rosa, not?Rosa ?
is the Cb(2b).
Consider.
the discourse:(3z) How is Rosa?
(3b) Did anyone see her yesterday?
(3e) Max saw her.Here, Cb(3c) is Rosa, but clearly would not be in othercontexts where the expression "her" still realized thebackward-looking center of "Max saw her."
This is seenmost simply by considering the discourse that wouldresult if "How is Joan?"
replaced (3a).
In the discoursethat resulted, Joan, not Rosa, would be the center of (3c).4.
Center ing  and  Rea l i za t ionThe interactions of semantic and pragmatic factors withcentering and their effects on referring expressions aremore complex than the preceding discussion suggests.
Inthe examples given above, the NPs that realize Cb(S) alsodenote it., but this is not always the case: we used theterm "realize" in the above discussion advisedly.
In thissection, we consider two kinds of examples in which thecenter of a sentence is not simply the denotation of somenoun phrase occurring in the sentence.
First, we willexamine several examples in which the choice of andinteraction among different kinds of interpretations ofdefinite noun phrases are affected by the local discoursecontext (i.e., centering}.
Second, the role of pragmaticfactors in some problematic ases of referential uses ofdefinite descriptions \[Donnellan 1966\] is discussed.4.1.
Real izat ion and Value-Free and Va lue -LoadedI n te rpreta t ionsThe distinction between realization and semanticdenotation is necessary to treat the interaction betweenvalue-free and value-loaded interpretations \[Barwise andPerry, 1982\] of definite descriptions, as they occur inextended discourse.
Consider, for example, the followingsequence:45(4a) The vice president  of the United Statesi s  a lso pres ident  of the Senate.
(4b) H is tor i ca l ly ,  he i s  the pres ident ' s  keyman in negot ia t ions  with Congress.
(4b') As Ambassador to China, he handledmany t r icky  negot ia t ions ,  so he i swel l  prepared for th i s  Job.Cb(4b) and Cb(4b') are each realized by the anaphoricelement "he.
= But (4b) expresses the same thing as"Historically, the vice president of the United States isthe president's key man in negotiations with Congress"(in which it is clear that no single individual vicepresident is being referred to) whereas (4b') expresses thesame thing as, "As ambassador to China, the \[person whois now\] vice president of the United States handled manytricky negotiations,..." This can be accounted for byobserving that "the vice president of the United States"contributes both its value-free interpretation and itsvalue-loading at the world type to Cf(4a).
Cb(4b) is thenthe value-free interpretation and Cb(4b')  is the value-loading, i.e., George Bush.In this example, both value-free and value-loadedinterpretations are showu to stem from the same fulldefinite noun phrase.
It is also possible for the movementof the center from a value-free interpretation (for Cb(S))to a value-loaded interpretation (for Cb of the nextsentence)-or vice versa-to be accomplished solely withpronouns.
That is, although (4b)-(4b') is (at least forsome readers) not a natural dialogue, similar sequencesare possible.There appear to be strong constraints on the kinds oftransitions that are allowed.
In particular, if a givensentence forces either the value-free or value-loadedinterpretation, then only that interpretation becomespossible in a subsequent sentence.
However, if somesentence in a given context merely prefers oneinterpretation while allowing the other, then either one ispossible in a subsequent sentence.For example, the sequence.
(Sa) The vice president  of the United Statesis also pres ident  of the Senate.
(Sb) He's the president's key a~ in ne~otiationewith Congress.in which "he" may be interpreted a~ either value-free(iT') or value-loaded (VL}, may be followed by either ofthe following two sentences:(5c) As ambassador to China.
hehandled many tricky negotiations.
(VL)(5c') He is required to he at least 35 years old.
(V'F')tlowever, if we change (Sb) to force the value-loadedinterpretation, as in (5b'), then only (5c) is possible.
($b') Right non he is the president'skey man ?n negotiations sith Congress.Similarly, if {5b) is changed to force the value-freeinterpretation, as in {4b), then only (5c') is possible.If an intermediate sentence allows both interpretationsbut prefers one in a given context, then either is possiblein the third sentence.
A use with preference for a value-loaded interpretation followed by a use indicating thevalue-free interpretation is illustrated in the sequence:John thinks that the telephone ?s a toy.He plays with i t  every day.
(V~ preferred;  V~ok)He doesn't realize that ?t is tn ?nventlonthat changed the world.
(V~The preference for a value-free interpretation that isfollowed bv a value-loaded one is easiest to see in adialogue situation:st:  The vice pres ident  of the United Statesi s  a lso pres ident  of the Senate.s2: I thought he played someimportant ro le in the House.
(VFpre fer red ;  VL ok)st:  He did.
but that  van before he vu  VP.
(V~)4 .2 .
Rea l i za t ion  and  Referent ia l  UseFrom these examples, it might appear that the conceptsof value-free and value-loaded interpretation are identicalto Donnellan's I19661 attributive and referential uses ofnoun phrases.
However, there is an important differencebetween these two distinctions.
The  importance to ourtheory is that the referential use of definite noun phrasesintroduces the need to take pragmatic factors (inparticular speaker intention) into account, not justseman| ic factors.DonnelIan \[1966\[ describes the referential andattributive uses of definite descriptions in the followingway:"A speaker who uses a definite descriptionattributively in an assertion states somethingabout whoever or whatever is the so-and-so.
Aspeaker who uses a definite descriptionreferentially in an a~sertion, on the other hand ,uses the description to enable his audience topick out whom or what he is talking about andstates something about that person or thing.
Inthe first case the definite description might besaid to occur essentially, for the speaker wishesto assert something about whatever or whoeverfits that description; but in the referential usethe definite description is merely one tool fordoing a certain job--calling attention to a personor thing--and in gefieral any other device fordoing the same job, another description or aname.
would do as well.
In the attributive use,the attribute of being the so-and-so is allimp~,rtant, while it is not in the referential use.
*The distinction Donnellan suggests can be formulated interms of the different propositions a sentence S containinga definite description D may be used to express ondiffercn!
occasions of use.
When D is used referentially, itcontributes its denotation to the proposition expressed by~6S; when it is used attributively, it contributes to theproposition expressed by S a semantic interpretationrelated to the descriptive content of D. The  identity ofthis semantic interpretation is not something about whichDonnellan is explicit.
Distinct formal treatments of thesemantics of definite descriptions in natural languagewould construe the appropriate interpretation differently.In semantic treatments based on possible worlds, theappropriate interpretation would be a (partial} functionfrom possible worlds to objects; in the situation semanticsexpounded by Barwise and Perry, the appropriateinterpretation is a (partial} function from resourcesituations 5 to objects..As just described, the referential-attributive distinctionappears to be exactly the distinction that Barwise andPerry formulate in terms of the value-loaded and value-free interpretations of definite noun phrases.
But thisgloss omits an essential aspect of the referential-attributive distinction as elaborated by Donnellan.
InDonnellan's view, a speaker may use a descriptionreferentially to refer to an object distinct from thesemantic denotation of the description, and, moreover, torefer to an object even when the description has nosemantic denotation.In one sense, this phenomenon arises within theframework of Barwise and Perry's treatment ofdescriptions.
If we understand the semantic denotation ofa description to be the unique object that satisfies thecontent of the description, if there is one, then Barwiseand Perry would allow that there are referential uses of adescription D that contribute objects other than thesemantic denotation of D to the propositions expressed byuses of sentences in which D occurs.
But this is onlybecause Barwise and Perry allow that a description maybe evaluated at ~ resource situation other than thecomplete situation in order to arrive at its denotation ona given occasion of use.
Still, the denotation of thedescription relative to a given resource situation is theunique object in the situation that satisfies the descriptionrelative to that situation.The referential uses of descriptions that Donnellan givesexamples of do not seem to arise by evaluation ofdescriptions at alternative resource situations, but ratherthrough the "referential intentions" of the speaker in hisuse of the description.
This aspect of referential use is apragmatic rather than a semantic phenomenon and is bestanalyzed in terms of the distinction between semanticreference and speaker's reference elaborated in Kripke \[10vv\].Con~idcr the following discourses drawn from Kripke{lov~'l:(6a) Her husband is kind to her.
(6b) No.
he isn't.
The usa you'rere fe r r ing  to isn't her husband.
(7a) Her husband i s  kind to her.
(7b) He i s  kind to her but be i sn ' t  her husband.With (6a) and (7a), Kripke has in mind a case like theone discussed in Donnellan \[1066\], in which a speaker usesa description to refer to something other than thesemantic referent of that description, i.e., the unique thingthat satisfies the description (if there is one).
Kripkeanalyzes this case as an instance of the generalphenomenon of a clash of intentions in language use.
Inthe case at hand, the speaker has a general intention touse the description to refer to its semantic referent; hisspecific intention, distinct from his general semanticintention, is to use it to refer to a particular individual.He incorrectly believes that these two intentions coincideand this gives rise to a use of the referring expression "herhusband" in which the speaker's reference and thesemantic reference are distinct.
"8 (The speaker's referentis presumably the woman's \]over).From our point of view, the importance of the caseresides in its showing that Cf(S) may include more thanone entity, that is realized by a single NP in S. In thiscase, "her husband" contributes both the husband andthe lover to Cf{6a} and Cf(Ta).
This can be seen byobserving that both discourses eem equally appropriateand that the backward-looking centers of (6b) and /7b)are the husband and the lover, respectively, realized bytheir anaphoric elements.
Hence, the forward-lookingcenters of a sentence may be related not semantically butpragmatically to the NPs that realize them.Hence, the importance of the referential/attributivedistinction from our point of view is that it leads to casesin which the centers of a sentence may be pragmaticallyrather than semantically related to the noun phrases thatrealize them.5.
Center  Movement  and  Center  Rea l i za t ion - -Const ra in tsIn the foregoing sections we have discussed a number ofexamples to illustrate two essential points.
First, the nounphrase that realizes the backward-looking center of anutterance in a discourse cannot be determined from thesyntax of the utterance alone.
Second, the relation Nrealizes c between noun phrases N and centers c isneither solely a semantic nor solely a pragmatic relation.This discussion has proceeded at a rather intuitive level,without explicit elaboration of the framework we regardas appropriate for dealing with centering and its role inexplaining disco,trse phenomena.
Before going on todescribe constraints on the realization relation that5Roughly, *any situation on which the speaker can focusattention ?
is a potential candidate for a resource situation withrespect o which the speaker may value load his uses  of definitedescriptions.
Such resource situations must contain a unique objectwhich satisfies the description.6There are, of course, several alternative explanations; e.g., thespeaker may believe that the description is more likely than anaccurate one to be interpreted correctly by the hearer.
Ferreting outexactly what the case is in a given situation requires accounts ofmutual belief and the like.
A discussion of these issues is beyond thescope of this paper.h7explain certain phenomena in discourse, we should besomewhat more explicit about the notions of center andrealization.We have said that each utterance S in a discourse hasassociated with it a backward-looking center, Cb(S), anda set of forward-looking centers, Cf(S).
What manner ofobjects are these centers?
They are the sort of objectsthat can serve as the semantic interpretations of singularnoun phrases.
7 That is, either they are objects in theworld (e.g., planets, people, numbers} or they arefunctions from possible worlds (situations, etc.}
to objectsin the world that can be used to interpret definitedescriptions.
That is, whatever serves to interpret adefinite noun phrase can be a center.For the sake of concreteness in many of the examples inthe preceding discussion, we have relied on the situationsemantics of Barwise and Perry.
The theory we aredeveloping does not depend on this particular semanticaltreatment of definite noun phrases, but it does requireseveral of the distinctions that treatment provides.
Inparticular, our theory requires a semantical treatmentthat accommodates the distinction betweeninterpretations of definite noun phrases that contributetheir content o the propositions expressed by sentences inwhich they occur and interpretations that contribute onlytheir denotation-in other words, the distinction betweenvalue-free and value-loaded interpretations.
As noted, adistinction of this sort can be effected within theframework of "possible-worlds" approaches to thesemantics of natural language.
In addition, we see theneed for interpretations of definite noun phrases to bedependent on their discourse context.
Once again, this is afeature of interpretations that is accommodated in therelational approach to semantics advocated by Barwiseand Perry, but it might be accommodated within otherapproaches as well.
8Given that Cb(S), the center of sentence S in adiscourse, is the interpretation of a definite noun phrase,how does it become related to S?
In a typical example, Swill contain a full definite noun phrase or pronoun thatrealizes the center.
The realization relation is neithersemantic nor pragmatic.
For example, N real izes c mayhold in cages where N is a definite description and c is itsdenotation, its value-free interpretation, or an objectrelated to it by a "speaker's reference."
Moreimportantly, when N is a pronoun, the principles thatgovern which c are such that N real izes c derive fromneither semantics nor pragmatics exclusively.
They areprinciples that must be elicited from the study ofdiscourse itself.
A tentative formulation of some suchprinciples is given below.Though it is typical that, when c is a center of S, Scontains an N such that N real izes c, it is by no meansnecessary.
In particular, for sentences containing noun7In a fuller treatment of our theory we will consider centers thatare realized by constituents in other syntactic categories.81srael \[1983\] discusses some of these issues and compares severalproperties of situation semantics with Montague semantics.phrases that express functional relations (e.g., "the door,"?
the owner'} whose arguments are not exhibitedexplicitly (e.g., a house is the current center, but so farneither its door nor its owner has been mentioned), 9 it issometimes the case that such an argument can be thebackward-looking center of the sentence.
We arecurrently studying such cases and expect to integrate thatstudy into our theory of discourse phenomena.The basic rule that constrains the realization of thebackward-looking center of an utterance is a constraint onthe speaker, namely:\[f the Cb of the current utterance is the same as theCb of the previous utterance, a pronoun should be used.There are two things to note about this rule.
First, itdoes not preclude using pronouns for other entities as longas one is used for the center.
Second, it is not a hardrule, but rather a principle, like a Gricean maxim, thatcan be violated.
However, such violations lead at best toconditions in which the hearer is forced to drawadditional inferences.As a simple example, consider the following sequence,assuming at the outset that John is the center of thediscourse:(Sa) He ca l led  up Mike yesterday.
(he=John)(Sb) He ,as  annoyed by John's ca l l .
(8b) is unacceptable, unless it is possible to consider theintroduction of a second person named "John."
However,intervening sentences that provide for a shift in centerfrom John to Mike (e.g., "He was studying for his driver'stest') suffice to make (8b) completely acceptable.Sidner's discourse focus corresponds roughly to Cb(S),while her potential foci correspond approximately toCf(S).
However, she also introduces an actor focus tohandle multiple pronouns in a single utterance.
The basiccentering rule not only aLlows us to handle the sameexamples more simply, but also appears to avoid one ofthe complications in Sidner's account.
Example D4 fromSidner \[1081} illustrates this problem:(9-1)I haven't seen Jeff for several days,(9-2)Carl thinks he's studying for his exams.
(9-3)But I think he Tent bo the Cape with Llnda.On Sidner's account, Carl is the actor focus after (0-2)and Jeff is the discourse focus (Cb(9-2)).
Because the actorfocus is preferred as the referrent of pronominalexpressions, Carl is the leading candidate for the entityreferred to by he in {9-3}.
It is difficult to rule this caseout without invoking fairly special rules.
On  our account,Jeff is Cb(0-2) and there is no problem.
The addition ofactor focus was made to handle multiple pronouns--forexample, if (9-3) were replaced byHe thinks he studies too much.The center rule allows such uses, without introducing a9Grosz \[1977\] refers to this a~ "implicit focusing'; other examplesare presented in Joshi and Weinstein \[1981\]~,8second kind of focus (or center), by permitting entitiesother than Cb(S) to be pronominalized as long as Cb(S)is.l?Two aspects of centering affect the kinds of inferences ahearer must draw in interpreting a definite description.First, the shifting of center from one entity to anotherrequires recognition of this change.
Most often suchchanges are affected by the use of full definite nounphrases, but in some instances a pronoun may be used.For example, Grosz \[1977\] presents several examples ofpronouns being used to refer to objects mentioned manyutterances back.
Second, the hearer must process(interpret) the particular linguistic expression that realizesthe center.Most previous attempts to account for the interaction ofdifferent kinds of referring expressions with centering andfocusing (or "topic') have conflated these two.
Forexample, Joshi and Weinstein \[1981\] present a preliminaryreport on their research regarding the connection betweenthe computational complexity of the inferences requiredto process a discourse and the coherence of that discourseas assessed by measures that invoke the centeringphenomenon.
However, several of the examples combinechanges of expression and shifts in centering.Violations of the basic centering rule require the hearerto draw two different kinds of inferences.
The kindrequired depends on whether a full definite noun phrase isused to express the center or whether a pronoun is usedfor a noncentered entity.
We will consider each caseseparately.Several different functions may be served by the use ofa full definite noun phrase to realize the currentlycentered entity.
For instance, the full noun phrase mayinclude some new and unshared information about theentity.
In such cases, additional inferences arise from theneed to determine that the center has not shifted and thatthe properties expressed hold for the centered entity.
Forexample, in the following sequences(I0) I toole i 7 clog to the vet the other  day.The mangy  old beast .
.
.
(11) I'm reading The French Lieutenant'sWoman.
The book, which InFowles best .
.
.
.the full definite noun phrases that are in boldface domore than merely refer.When the current center is not pronominalized (it maynot be present in the sentence), the use of a pronoun toexpress an entity other than the current center, isstrongly constrained.
The particular cases that have beenidentified involve instances in which attention is beingshifted back to a previously centered entity (e.g., Grosz,1977; Reichman, 1978) or to one element of a set that iscurrently centered.
In such cases, additional inferences10Obviously, if Cb(S) is not expressed'in the next sentence thenthis issue does not arise.are required to determine that the pronoun does not referto the current center, as well as to identify the contextback to which attention is shifting.
These shifts, thoughindicated by linguistic expressions typically used forcentering (pronouns), correspond to a shift in global focus.8.
SummaryThe main purpose of the paper was to sort out theconfusion about the roles of syntactic, semantic, andpragmatic factors in the interpretation and generation ofdefinite noun phrases in discourse.
Specific mechanismsthat account for the interactions among these factors werepresented.
Discourses were shown to be coherent at twodifferent levels, i.e., with referring expressions used toidentify entities that are centered locally and thosefocused upon more globally.
The differences betweenreferences at the global and local levels were discussed,and the interaction of the syntactic role of a given nounphrase and its semantic interpretation with centering wasdescribed.ReferencesAppelt, D.E., "Planning Natural-Language Utterances, ?Proc.
of the National Conference on ArtificialIntelligence, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania (August 1982).Barwise, J. and Perry, J.
Situations and Attiludes,Bradford Books, Cambridge, Mass.
(1982)Donnellan, K., "Reference and Definite Description,"Philosophical Review, Vol.
60, pp.
281-304 (1966).Grosz, B.J., "The Representation and Use of Focus inDialogue Understanding," Ph.D. Thesis, University ofCalifornia, Berkeley.
Also, Technical Note No.
151,Artificial Intelligence Center, SRI International.
(1977).Grosz, B.J., "Focusing and DescriptionLanguage Dialogues," Elements ofUnderstanding, Joshi et al, (eds.)
CambridgePress, Cambridge, England (1982).in NaturalDiscourseUniversityIsrael, D.J., "A Prolegomenon to Situation Semantics,"Proc.
of the 21st Annual Meeting of the Assoc.
forComputational Linguistics, Cambridge, Mass.
(June15-17, 1983).Joshi, A. and S. Weinstein, "Control of Inference: Roleof Some Aspects of Discourse Structure-Centering,"Proc.
bzternational Joint Conference on ArtificialIntelligence, Vancouver, B.C.
pp.
385-387 {August 24-28,I08t).Kripke, S., "Speaker's Reference and SemanticReference," Contemporary Pespectives in the Philosophyof Language, University of Minnesota Press, Minneapolis,Minnesota, pp.
6-27, (1977).McKeown, K.R., "The TEXT System for NaturalLanguage Generation: An Overview," Proc.
of the 20th.4nnual Aieeting of the Assoc.
for ComputationalLinguistics, 16-18 June 1982, Toronto, Ontario, Canada(June 1982}./49Reichman, R. "Conversational Coherency," CognitiveScience Vol.
2, No.
4, pp.
283-327, (1978}.Reichman, R. "Plain Speaking: A Theory and Grammarof Spontaneous Discourse," Technical Report No.
4681,Bolt Beranek and Newman, Cambridge, Mass.
(June1981).Reinhart, T., "Prag'maties and Linguistics, An Analysisof Sentence Topics," Indiana University Linguistics Club,Bloomington, Indiana (1978).Sidner, C.L., Toward a Computational Theory ofDefinite Anaphora Comprehension i  English, MITTechnical Report AI-TR-537, (1979).Sidner, C., "Focusing for Interpretation of Pronouns,"American Journal of Computational Linguistics Vol.
7,No.
4, pp.
217-231 (1981).5O
