Discourse Pragmatics and Ellipsis Resolutionin Task-Oriented Natural Language InterfacesJa ime G. CarbonellComputer Science DepartmentCarnegie-Mellon University.P!ttsburgh, PA 15213AbstractThis paper reviews discourse phenomena that occur frequentlyin task.oriented man.machine dialogs, reporting on a~n empiricalstudy that demonstrates the necessity of handling ellipsis,anaphora, extragrammaticality, inter-sentential metalanguage,and other abbreviatory devices in order to achieve convivial userinteraction.
Invariably, users prefer to generate terse orfragmentary utterances instead of longer, more complete "stand-alone" expressions, even when given clear instructions tO thecontrary.
The XCALIBUR exbert system interface is designed tomeet these needs, including generalized ellipsis resolution bymeans of a rule-based caseframe method superior tO previoussemantic grammar approaches.1.
A Summary of Task-OrientedDiscourse PhenomenaNatural language discourse exhibits several intriguingphenomena that defy definitive linguistic analysis and generalcomputational solutions.
However, some progress has beenmade in developing tractable computational solutions tosimplified version of phenomena such as ellipsis and anaphoraresolution \[20, 10, 211.
This paper reviews discourse phenomenathat arise ~n task.oriented dialogs with responsive agents (suchas expert systems, rather than purely passive data base querysystems), outlines the results of an empirical study, and presentsour method for handling generalized ellipsis resolution in theXCALIBUR expert system interface.
With the exception of inter-sentential metalanguage, and to a lesser degreeextragrammaticality, the significance of the phenomena listedbelow have long been recognized and documented in thecomputational linguistics literature.?
Anaphora -- Interactive task-oriented dialogs invite theuse of anaphora, much more so than simpler data basequery situations.?
Definite noun phrases -- As Grosz \[6\] noted, resolvingthe referent of defimte noun phrases requires anunderstanding of the planning structure underlyingcooperative discourse,?
Ellipsis -.
Sentential level ellipsis has long beenrecognized as ubiquitous in discourse.
However, semanticellipsis, where ellipsed information is manifest not assyntactically incomplete structures, but as semanticallyincomplete propositions, is also an importantphenomenon.
The ellipsis resolution method presentedlater in this paper addresses both kinds of ellipsis.?
Extragrammatical utterances -- Interjections, droppedarticles, false starts, misspellings, and other forms ofgrammatical deviance abound in our data (as explained inthe following section).
Developing robust parsingtechniques that tolerate errors has been the focus of ourearlier investigations \[2, 9.
7\] and remains high among ourpriorities.
Other investigations on error-tolerant parsingincJude \[13, 22\].?
Meta.
l incjuist ic ut terances -- Intra-sententialmetalanguage has been investigated to some degree\[18, 12J, but its more common inter-sententiai counterparthas received little attention \[4}.
However, utterances aboutother utterances (e,g,, corrections of previous commands,such as "1 meant to type X instead" or "1 should have said...") are not infrequent in our dialogs, and we are makingan initial stab at this problem \[8}.
Note that it is acognitively less demanding task for a user to correct aprevious utterance than to repeat an explicit sequence ofcommands (or worse yet, to detect and undo explicitlyeach and every unwanted consequence of a mistakencommand).?
ind i rect  speech acts -- Occasionally users will resort tOindirect speech acts\[19.
16, 1\], especially in connectionwith inter.sentential metalanguage or by stating a desiredstate of affairs and expecting the system tO supply thesequence of actions necessary to achieve that state.In our prior work we have focused on extr~grammaticality andinter.sentential metalanguage.
In this paper we report on anempLrical study of discourse phenomena to a s~mulated interfaceand on our work on generalized elhpsis resolutLon in the contextof the XCALIBUR project,2.
An Empirical StudyThe necessity to handle most of the discourse phenomenalisted in the preceding section was underscored by an empiricalstudy we conducted to ascertain the most pressing needs ofnatural language interfaces in interactive apl~lications, The initialobjective of this study was to circumscribe the natural languageinterface task by attempting to instruct users of a simulatedinterface not to employ different discourse devices or difficultlinguistic constructs.
In essence, we wanted to determinewhether untrained users would be able to interact as instructed(for instance avoiding all anaphoric referents), and, if so, whetherthey would still find the interface convivial given our artificialconstraints.The basic experimental set-up consisted of two remotelylocated terminals linked to each other and a transaction log file164that kept a record of all interactions.
The user wassituated at oneterminal and was told he or she was communicating with a realnatural language interface to an operating system (and anaccompanying intelligent help system, not unlike Wilensky's UnixConsultant\[23\].)
The experimenter at the other terminalsimulated the interface and gave appropriate commands to the(real) operating system.In different sessions, users were instructed not to usepronouns, to type only complete sentences, to avoid complexsyntax, to type only direct commands or queries (e.g., no indirectspeech acts or discourse-level metalinguistic utterances \[4, 8\]),and to stick to the topic.
The only instructions that were reliablyfollowed were sticking to the topic (always) and avoidingcomplex syntax (usually).
All other instructions were repeatedlyviolated in spite of constant negative feedback -- that is, theperson pretending to be the natural language program repliedwith a standard error message.
I recorded some verbalresponses as well (with users telling a secretary at the terminalwhat she should type), and, contrary to my expectations, thesedid not qualitatively differ from the typed utterances.
Thesignificant result here is that users appear incapable or unwillingto generate lengthy commands, queries or statements when theycan employ a linguistic device to state the same proposition in amore terse manner.
To restate the principle more succinctly:Terseness principle: users insist on being as terseas possible, independent Of communication media ortyping ability.
1Given these results, we concluded that it was more appropriateto focus our investigations on handling abbreviatory discoursedevices, rather than to address the issue of expanding oursyntactic coverage to handle verbose complex structures seldomobserved in our experience.
In this manner, the objectives of theXCALIBUR project differ from those of most currentinvestigations.3.
A Sketch of the ?CALIBUR inter faceThis section outlines the XCALIBUR project, whose objective isto provide flexible natural language access (comprehension andgeneration) to the XSEL expert system \[15\].
XSEL, the DigitalEquipment Corporation's automated salesman's assistant,advises on selection of appropriate VAX components andproduces a sales order for automatic configuration by the R1system \[14\].
Part of the XSEL task is to provide the user withinformation about DEC components, hence subsuming the data-base query task.
However, unlike a pure data base query system,an expert system interface must also interpret cnm"'~ndS,understand assertions of new information, and carry out task-oriented dialogs (such as those discussed by Grosz\[6\]).XCALIBUR, in particular, deals with commands to modify anorder, as well as information requests pertaining to its presenttask or itS data base of VAX component parts.
In the near future itshould process clarificational dialogs when the underlying expertsystem (i.e.
XSEL) requires additional information or advice, asillustrated in the sample dialog below:>What is the largest 11780 fixed disk under $40,000?The rp07-aa is a 516 M8 fixed pack disk that costs $38,000.>The largest under $50,000?The rp07-aa.>Add two rpO7-aa disks to my order.Line item 1 added: (2 ro07-aa)>Add a printer with graphics capatJilityfixed or changeable font?>fixed tontlines per minute?>make it at least 200, upper/lowercase.Ok.
Line item 2 added: (1 Ixyt 1-sy)>Tell me about the Ixyl  1The Ixyl 1 is a 240 I/m line printer with plotting capabilities,With the exception of the system-driven clarificationinterchange, which is beyond XCALIBUR's presentlyimplemented capabilities, the rest of the dialog, including thenatural language generation, is indicative of the present state Ofour system.
The major contributions of XCALIBUR thus far isperhaps the integratlon of diverse techmques into a workingsystem, including the DYPAR.II multi-strategy parser.expectatnon.based error correction, case.frame ellipsisUSER- -  - -~ Oypar.IIGenet al.
:,r\]L~-- 1 InformalLonManager& <_JJ'(- XSELLong te,m (Static) DatabaseXCAL IBUR >R1iFigu re 3-1 : Overview of XCALIBURllndicative as these empirical studies are of where one must focus one'sefforts in developing convivial interfaces, they were not performed with adeqgatocontrol groups or statistical rigor.
Therefore.
there is ample room to confirm.refute or expand upon lhe detads of our emoirical findings.
However.
thesurprisingly strong form in which Grice's maxgm \[5\] manifests itself in task-oa~ented human computer d=alogs eems qualitatively irrefutable.resolution and focused natural language generation.
Figure3.1 provides a simplified view of the major modules ofXCALIBUR, and the reader is referred to \[3\] for furtherelaboration.3.1.
The Role of the Information HandlerWhen XSEL is ready to accept input, the information handler is165passed a message indicating the case frame or class of caseframes expected as a response.
For our example, assume that acommand or query is expected, the parser is notified, and theuser enters>What is the price of the 2/argest dual port fixed media disks?The parser returns;\[QUERY (OBJECT (SELECT (disk(ports (VALUE (2)))(disk-pack-type (VALUE ( f ixed)))(OPERATION (SORT(TYPE ('descending))(ATTR (size))(NUMBER (2)))(PROJECT (pr i ce ) ) )(INFO-SOURCE ( 'default ) )  \]Rather than delving into the details of the representation or themanner in which it is transformed prior to generating an internalcommand to XSEL, consider some of the functions of theinformation handler:?
Defaults must be instantiated.
In the example, the querydoes not explicitly name an INFO.SOURCE, which could bethe component database, the current set of line.items, or aset of disks brought into focus by the preceding dialog.?
Ambiguous fillers or attribute names must be resolved.
Forexample, in most contexts.
"300 MB disk" means a diskwith "greater than or equal to 300 ME\]" rather than strictly"equal to 300 MB", A "large" disk refers to ample memorycapacity in the context of a functional componentspecification, but to large physical dimensions during siteplanning, Presently, a small amount of local pragmaticknowledge suffices for the analysis, but.
in the generalcase.
closer integration with XSEL may be required.?
Generalized ellipsis resolution, as presented below, occurswithin the information handler.As the reader may note, the present raison d'etre of theinformation manager ts to act as a repository of task and dialogknowledge providing information that the user did not feelnecessary to convey explicitly.
Additionally.
the informationhandler routes the parsed command or query to the appropriateknowledge source, be it an external static data base, an expertsystem, or a dynamically constructed data structure (such as thecurrent VAX order).
Our plans call for incorporating a model ofthe user's task and knowledge state that should provide usefulinformation to both parser and generator.
At first, we intend tofocus on stereotypical users such as a salesperson, a systemengineer and a customer, who would have rather differentdomain knowledge, perhaps different vocabulary, and certainlydifferent sets of tasks in m,nd.
Eventually, refinements andupdates to a default user model should be inferred from ananalysis of the current dialog \[17\].4.
Generalized Caseframe EllipsisThe XCALIBUR system handles ellipsis at the case-frame level.Its coverage appears to be a superset of the LIFER/LADDERsystem \[10, 11 \] and the PLANES ellipsis module \[21 \].
Although ithandles most of the ellipsed utterances we encountered, it is notmeant to be a general linguistic solution to the ellipsisphenomenon.4.1.
ExamplesThe following examples are illustrative of the kind of sentencefragments the current case-frame method handles.
For brevity,assume that each sentence fragment occurs immediatelyfollowing the initial query below.INITIAL QUERY: "What is the price of the three largestsingle port fixed media disks?""Speed?
""Two smallest?.
""How about the price of the two smal lest""also the smallest with dual ports""Speed with two ports?
""Disk with two ports.
"In the representatwe xamples above, punctuation is of no help,and pure syntax is of very limited utility.
For instance, the lastthree phrases are syntactically similar (indeed, the last two areindistinguishable), but each requires that a different substitutionbe made on the preceding query.
All three substitute the numberof ports in the original SELECT field, but the first substitutes"ascending" for "descending" in the OPERATION field, thesecond subshtutes "speed" for "price" in the I~ROJECT field, andthe third merely repeats the case header of the SELECT field.4.2.
The El l ipsis Reso lut ion MethodEllipsis ~s resolved differently in the presence or absence ofstrong discourse expectations.
In the former case, the discourseexpectatmon rules are tested first, and, if they fad to resolve thesentence fragment, the Contextual substitution rules are tned.
Ifthere are no strong d~scourse expectations, the contextualsubstitution rules are invoked directly.Exemplary discourse expectation rule:IF: The system generated a query f,or confirmation ord lsconr l rmat ion  of a proposed value of a f i l lerof a case in a case frame in Focus,THEN: EXPECT one or more of, the f,oIIowing:l) A conrirmatlon or disconf,irmation pattern.7) A di f ferent but semantically permissible f , i l le rof the case frame in questlon (optlonal ly namingthe a t t r ibute  or prov lO ing the case marker )3) A comparatlve or evaluative pattern.~) ~ query for posslble r l l l e rs  ,)r constralnts onpossible f i l l e rs  of the case In question.\ [ I f  this expectatlon is confirmeo, a sup-dialogis entered, wtlere previously Focused ent i t iesremain in focus.
\]The following dialog fragment, presented without furthercommentary, ~llustrates how these expectations come into play ina focused dialog:>Add a line printer with graphics capabilities.Is 150 lines per minute acceptable?>No.
320 is better Expectations 1, 2 & 3(or) other options for the speed?
Expectation4(or) Too slow.
try 300 or faster Expectations 2 & 3The utterance "try 300 or faster" is syntactically a completesentence, but semantically ,t is lust as fragmentary as theprevious utterances.
The strong discourse expectations,however, suggest that it be processed in the same manner assyntactically incomplete utterances, since Jt satisfies theexpectations of the interactive task The terseness principleoperates at all levels: syntactic, semantic and pragmatic.166The contextual substitution rules exploit the semanticrepresentation of queries and commands discussed in theprevious section.
The scope of these rules, however, is limited tothe last user interaction of appropriate type in the dialog focus,as ='llustrated in the following example:Contextual Substitution Rule 1:IF: An attribute name (or conjoined l i s t  of" attributenames) is present  w i thout  any corresponding f i l te ror case header,  and the a t t r ibute  is a semant ica l lypermiss ib le  descr ip tor  of tile case frame In theSELECT rield o9 the last query in focus,THEN: Subst i tu te  the new at t r ibute  name to t  the old t i l l e rof' the PROJECT f ie ld of the las t  query.For example, this rule resolves the ellipsis in the followingutterances:>What is the size of the 3/argest sing/e port fixed media disks?>And the price and speed?Contextual  Subst itut ion Rule 2:TF: t~o sentent ia l  case frames are recognized tn theinpuL, and part of the Input can be recognized as anattribute &r t l l e r  (or just a r i l l e r )  of a case Inthe SELECT f ie ld  or  a command or  query  tn Focus,THEN: Subst i tu te  t.he new f i l l e r  fo r  the o ld in the samer te ld  o r  the o ld conlmand or  query .This rule resolves the following kind of ellipsis:>What is the size of the 3 largest single port fixed media disks?>disks with two ports?Note that it is impossible to resolve this kind of ellipsis in ageneral manner if the previous query is stored verbatim or as a asemantic-grammar parse tree.
"Disks with two ports" would atbest correspond to some <d isk -descr ip tor '>  non-terminal,and hence, according to the LIFER algorithm\[lO, 11\], wouldreplace the entire phrase "single port fixed media disks" thatcorresponded to <d isk -descr ip tor> in the parse of theoriginal query.
However, an informal poll of potential userssuggests that the preferred interpretation of the ellipsis retainsthe MEDIA specifier of the original query.
The ellipsis resolutionprocess, therefore, requires a finer grain substation method thansimply inserting the highest level non-terminals in the in theellipsed input in place of the matching non-terminals in the parsetree of the previous utterance.Taking advantage of the fact that a case frame analysis of asentence or object description captures the meaningful semanticrelations among its constituents in a canonical manner, apartially instantiated nominal case frame can be merged with theprevious case frame as follows:= Substitute any cases instantiated in the original query thatthe ellipsis specifically overrides.
For instance "with twoports" overrides "single port" in our example, as bothentail different values of the same case descriptor,regardless of their different syntactic roles.
("Single port"in the original query is an adjectival construction, whereas"with two ports" is a post-nominal modifier in the ellipsedfragment.)?
Retain any cases in the original parse that are not explicitlycontradicted by new information in the ellipsed fragment.For instance, "fixed media" is retained as part of the diskdescription, as are all the sentential-level cases in theoriginal query, SUCh as the quantity specifier and theprojection attribute of the query ("size").?
Add cases of a case frame in the query that are notinstantiated therein, but are specified in the ellipsedfragment.
For instance, the "fixed head" descriptor isadded as the media case of the disk nominal case frame inresolving the etlipsed fragment in the following example:>Which disks are configurable on a VAX 11.7807>Any conligurable fixed head disks??
In the event that a new case frame is mentioned in theellipsed fragment, wholesale substitution occurs, much likein the semantic grammar approach.
For instance, if afterthe last example one were to ask "How about tapedrives?
", the substitution would replace "fixed head disks"with "tape drives", rather than replacing only "disks" andproducing the phrase "fixed head tape drives", which ismeaningless in the current domain.
In these instances thesemantic relations captured in a case frame representationand not in a semantic grammar parse tree proveimmaterial.The key tO case-frame ellipsis resolution is matchingcorresponding cases, rather than surface strings, syntacticstructures, or non-canonical representations.
It is true that inorder to instantiate correctly a sentential or nominal case framein the parsing process requires semantic knowledge, some ofwhich can be rather domain specific.
But, once the parse isattained, the resulting canonical representation, encodingappropriate semantic relations, can and should be exploited toprovide the system with additional functionality such as thepresent ellipsis resolution method.The major problem with semantic grammars is that theyconvolve syntax with semantics in a manner that requiresmultiple representations for the same semantic entity.
Forinstance, the ordering of marked cases in the input does notreflect any difference in meaning (almough one could argue thatsurface ordering may reflect differential emphasis and otherpragmatic considerations).
A pure semantic grammar mustemploy different rules to recognize each and every admissiblecase sequence.
Hence, the resultant parse trees differ, and theknowledge that surface positioning of unmarked cases ismeaningful, but positioning of ranked ones is not, must becontained within the ellipsis resolution process, a very unnaturalrepository for such basic information.
Moreover, in order to attaina measure of the functionality described above for case-frames,ellipsis resolution in semantic grammar parse trees mustsomehow merge adjectival and post nominal forms(corresponding to different non-terminals and different relativepositions in the parse trees) so that ellipsed structures such as "adisk with 1 port" can replace the the "dual-port" part of thephrase "...dual-port fixed-media disk " in an earlier utterance.One way to achieve this effect is to collect together specificnonterminals that can substitute for each other in certaincontexts, in essence grouping non-canonical representationsinto semantic equivalence classes.
However, this process wouldrequ=re hand.crafting large associative tables or similar datastructures, a high price to pay for each domain-specific semanticgrammar.
Hence, in order to achive robust ellipsis resolution allproverbial roads lead to recursive case constructions encodingdomain semantics and canonical structure for multiple surfacemanifestations.Finally, consider one more rule that provides additional contextin situations where the ellipsis is of a purely semantic nature,such as:167)Which fixed media disks are configurable on a VAX780?The RP07-aa, the RP07.ab ....>"Add the largest"We need to answer the question "largest what?"
beforeproceeding.
One can call this problem a special case of definitenoun phrase resolution, rather than semantic ellipses, butterminology is immaterial.
Such phrases occur with regularity inour corpus of examples and must be resolved by a fairly genera lprocess.
The following rule answers the question from context,regardless of the syntactic completeness of the new utterance.Contextual Substitution Rule 3:If: A command or query caseframe lacks one or morerequired case f i l l e rs  (such as a missing SELECTf ie ld ) ,  and the las t  case frame in fOCUS has anins tant ia ted  case that meets a11 the semantic testsfor the case missing the r i l l e r ,THEN: t) Copy the f i l l e r  onto the new caseframe, andZ) Attempt to copy un ins tant ia ted  case f i l l e r ' s  aswell ( i f  they meet semantic tes ts )3) Echo the action being performed for  impl lc i tconrlrmetion by the user.XCALIBUR presently has eight contextual substitution rules.similar to the ones above, and we have found several additionalones to extend the coverage of ellipsed queries and commands(see \[3\] for a more extensive discussion).
It is significant o notethat a small set of fairly general rules exploiting the case framestructures cover most instances of commonly occurring ellipsis,including all the examples presented earlier in this section.5.
AcknowledgementsMark Boggs, Peter Anick and Michael Mauldin are part of theXCALIBUR team and have participated in the design andimplementation of various modules.
Phil Hayes and Steve Mintonhave contributed useful ideas in several discussions.
DigitalEquipment Corporation is funding the XCALIBUR project, whichprovides a fertile test bed for our investigations.6.
References1, Allen, J.F.
and Perrault, C.R.. "Analyzing Intention inUtterances," Artificial Intelligence.
VOI.
15, NO.
3, 1980,pp.
14,3-178.2.
Carbonell, J.G.
and Hayes, P.J., "Dynamic StrategySelection ~n Flexible Parsing," Proceedings of the 79thMeeting o/ the Assoctatlon for Computational Linguistics.1981.3.
Carbonell, J. G., Boggs.
W. M., Mauldin, M. L, and Anick,P.
G,.
"XCALIBUR Progress Report # 1: Overview of theNatural Language Interface," Tech.
report, Carnegie-Mellon University, Computer Science Department, 1983.4.
Carbonell, J.G., "Beyond Speech Acts: Meta-LanguageUtterances, Social Roles, and Goal Hierarchies,"Preprints of the Workshop on Discourse Processes,Marseilles.
France, 1982.5.
Grice, H. P., "Conversational Postulates," in Explorationsin Cognition, O.
A. Norman and O.E.
Rumelhart, eds.,Freeman, San Francisco, 1975.6.
Grosz, B.J., The Representation and Use of Focus inDialogue Understanding.
PhO dissertation, University ofCalifornia at Berkeley, 1977, SRI Tech.
Note 151,7.
Hayes, P. J,, and Carbonell, J.G., "Multi-StrategyConstruction-Specific Parsing for Flexible Data BaseQuery and Update," Proceedings of the SeventhInternational Joint Conference on Artificial Intelligence,August 1981, pp.
432.4,39.8.
Hayes, P.J.
and Carbonell, J.G., "A Framework forProcessing Corrections in Task.Oriented Dialogs,"Proceedings of the Eighth /nternationa/ Joint Conferenceon Artificial Intelligence, 1983, (Submitted).9.
Hayes, P. J. and Carbonell, J. G., "Multi-Strategy Parsingand it Role in Robust Man-Machine Communication,"Tech.
report CMU-CS-81-118, Carnegie-Mellon University,Computer Science Department, May 1981.10.
Hendrix.
G.G., Sacerdoti, E.D.
and Slocum, J.,"Developing a Natural Language Interface to ComplexData , "  SRI  Internat ional ,  1976.11.
Hendrix, G. G., "The LIFER Manual: A guide to BuildingPractical Natural Language Interfaces," Tech.report Tech.
note 138, SRI, 1977,12.
Joshi, A. K., "Use (or Abuse) of Metalinguistic Devices",Unpublished Manuscript.13.
Kwasny, S. C. and Sondheimer, N. K., "Ungrammaticalityand Extragrammaticahty in Natural LanguageUnderstanding Systems."
Proceedings ot the 17thMeeting ol the Assocsahon for Computational Linguistics,1979, pp.
19-23.14.
McDermott, J., "RI: A Rule-Based Configurer ofComputer Systems," Tech.
report, Carnegie-MellonUniversity.
Computer Science Department, 1980.15.
McDermott, J., "XSEL: A Computer Salesperson'sAssistant," m Machine Intelligence 10.
Hayes, J., Michie,O.
and Pap, Y-H., eds., Chichester UK: Ellis Horwood Ltd.,1982", pp.
325-387.16.
Perrault, C, R., Allen, J.F.
and Cohen, P R., "SpeechActs as a Basis for Understanding Dialog Coherence,"Procceedings of the Second Conference on TheoreticalIssues in Natural Language Processing.
1978.17.
Rich, E., Building and Exploring User Models.
PhOdissertation, Carnegie-Mellon University, April 1979,18.
Ross, J. R.. "Metaanaphora," Linguistic Inquiry.
1970.19.
Searle, J.R., "Indirect Speech ACTS," =n Syntax andSemantics, Volume 3: Speech Acts, P Cole and J.L.Morgan, eds., New York: Academic Press, 1975.20.
Sidner, C. L., Towards a Computational Theory of OeliniteAnaphora Comprehension in English Discourse.
PhOdissertation, MIT, 1979, AI-TR ~7.21.
Waltz.
D.L.
and Goodman, A.B., "Writing a NaturalLanguage Data Base System," Proceedings of the FifthInternational Joint Conference on Artificial Intelligence,1977.
pp.
144,150.22.
Weischedel, R.M.
and Black.
J., "Responding toPotentially Unparsable Sentences," Tech.
report,University of Delaware, Computer and InformationSciences, 1979, Tech Report 79/3.23.
Wilensky, R.. "Talking to UNIX in English: An Overview ofan Online Consultant," Tech.
report, UC Berkeley, 1982,L68
