A PROLEGOMENON TO SITUATION SEMANTICSDavid J. IsraelBolt Beranek and Newman Inc.Cambridge, MA 02238ABSTRACTAn attempt is made to prepare ComputationalLinguistics for Situation Semantics.I INTRODUCTIONThe ed i to rs  o f  the AI Journa l  recent ly  h i t  uponthe nice notion of correspondents' columns.
Thebasic idea was to solicit experts in variousfields, both within and outside of ArtificialIntelligence, to provide "guidance to important,interesting current literature" in their fields.For Ph i losophy,  they made the happy cho ice  of  DanDennett; for natural language processing, theequally happy choice of Barbara Grosz.
Each has sofa r  cont r ibuted  one column, and these  ear lycont r ibut ions  over lap  in  one, and as i t  happens,on ly  one,  par t i cu la r ;  to w i t :  S i tuat ion~mant ies .Witness Dennett :" " ~  t ~op lc ln  " Cis\] the hottest new philosophicalloglc...\[is\] in some ways a successor orrival to Montague semantics.And now Grosz:In recent work, Barwlse and Perryaddress the probZem \[of what informationfrom the context of an utterance affectswhich aspects of interpretation and how?\]in the context of a proposed model theoryof natural language, one that appears to bemore compatible with the needs of AI thanprevious theories .... EI\]t is of interestto work in natural-language processing forthe kind of compositional semantics it~ roposes, and the way in which it allows he contexts in which in an utterance isused to affect its interpretation.What is all the fuss about?
I want to addressthis question, but rather indirectly.
I want tosituate situation semantics in "conceptual space"and draw some comparisons and contrasts between itand accounts in the style of Richard Montague.
Tothis end, a few preliminary points are in order.A.
The Present SituationFirst, as to the state of the SituationSemantics literature.
There is as yet no publishedpiece of the scope and detail of either "English asa Formal Language" or "The Proper Treatment ofOuantlficatlon in Ordinary English".
Nor, ofcourse, is there anything l lke ~hat large body ofwork by philosophers and linguists - computationaland otherwise - that has been produced from withinthe Montague paradigm.
Montague's work was more orhess the first of its kind.
It excited, quitejustifiably, an extraordinary amount of interest tand has already inspired a distinguished body orwork, some of it from within AI and ComputationalLinguistics.
The latter can hardly be said forSituation Semantics (yet?
).So what is there?
Besides a few publishedpapers, each of them containing at least oneposition since abandoned~ there is a book~ Attitudes literally on the veryverge of publication.
This contains thephilosophlcal/theoretlcal background of the program- The Big Picture.
It also contains a very brieftreatment of a very simple fragment of ALIASS.
Andwhat, the reader may well ask is ALIASS?
AnArtificial Language for lliustratlng Aspects of~Ituation ~emantlcs, that's what.
Moreover thereis in the works a ceiiaboratlve effort, to becalled Situations a n d S .
m This will containa "Fragment of Situation Semantics", a treatment ofan extended f ra~ent  of ~ .
Last, for themoment, but not least, is a second book by Barwiseand Perry, ~ ~ ,  which will includea treatment of an even more extended fragment ofEnglish, together with a self-contalned treatmentof  the technical, mathematical background.
(By"self-contalned".
understand: not requiring eitherfamiliarity with or acceptance of The Big Picture~ resented in S&A.)
The bottom line: there is very Ittle of Situation Semantics presently availableto the masses of hungry researchers.S.There are important points of similarity betweenSituation and Montague semantics, of course.
Oneis that both are committed to formulatingmathematically rigorous semantic accounts ofEnglish.
To this end, both, of course, dip heavilyinto set theory.
But this isn't saying a wholelot; for they deploy very different set theories.Montague, for a variety of technical reasons, wasvery fond of MKM, a very powerful theory,countenancing huge collections.
MKM allows forboth sets and (proper) classes, the latter beingcollections too big to be elements of othercollections, and too big to be sets, say, of ZF.It also provides an unnervingly powerfulcomprehension axiom.
B&P, on the other hand, haveat least provisionally adopted KPU, a surprisinglyweak set theory.
Indeed, the vanilla version ofKPU comes without an axiom of infinity and (more orless hence) has a model in the hereditarily finitesets.
In that setting, even little infinitecoliectlons, llke the universe of hereditarilyfinite sets, are proper classes, and beyond thepale.
Enough for the moment of set theory,although we shall have to return to this strangeland for one more brief visit.More important, and perhaps more disheartening,similarities are immediately to hand.
BothMontague and B&P - thus far - restrict themselvesto the declarative fragment of English; Montague,for the obvious reason that he was a model theoristand a student of Tarskl.
For such types, thecrucial notion to be explicated is that of "truthmThe co l laborators  being B&P, Robin Cooper, HansKamp, and Stanley Peters.28of a sentence on an interpretation".
Moreover.Monta~e showed no interest in the use(s) oflar~Euage.
Of course people working within histradition are not debarred from doing so; but anysuch interest is an extra added attraction.
Thesame point about model theory, broadly construed,holds for Barwlse-Perry as well; they certainlyaren't syntaeticians.
But in their case it isreinforced by philosophical considerations whichpoint toward the use of language to conveyinformation as the central use of language - hence,to assertlng as the central kind of utterance orspeech act.
Thus, even when they  narrow theirsights to this one use, the notion that language issomething to be put to various uses by humans tofurther certain of their purposes is not foreign toSituation Semantics.
?Second, B&P (again: so far) stop short at theawesome boundary of the period.
Here again, thiswas only to be expected; and here again, thecrucial question is whether their overallphilosophical perspective so informs their accountof natural language as to enable a more fruitfulaccommodation of work on various aspects ofextended discourse.
Barbara Grosz hints at asuspicion I share, that although at the moment muchof what we have in this regard are promissory notesand wishful thinking, the answer is in theaffirmative, meII THE BIG PICTUREThe major point, however, concerns the primaryfocus of the work of Barwise and Perry ascontrasted with that of Montague.
Montagueapproached the problem of the semantics of naturallanguage essentially as a model theorist,attempting to app ly  (newly) or thodox mathematicaltechniques to the solution of classical problems inthe semantics of natural languages, many of whichhad to do with intensional contexts.
After all,these new techniques - in the development of whichMontague played a role - had precisely to do withthe treatment of formal languages containing modaland other intensional constructions.
What made afragment of English of interest to Montague, then,was that it contained loads of such contexts.
Itis as if all of that wondrous machinery, and thetechnical brilliance to deploy it.
were aimed at ananalysis of the following sentence: While thewas ~ ~seemed to be lookln~for ~ unicorn who was thinkinK ~ ~ centaur.What is astounding, of course, is that Montagueshould have been able to pull a systematic andrigorous treatment of such contexts out of themodel-theoretlc hat.When we turn to Situation Semantics, on theother hand, we seem to be back in the linguisticworld of flrst-grade readers: Spot ran.
~ saw~run .
J a n e ~  that SPot ran.
rndee~, t~malor concern of Barwise-Perry is not the semanticsof natural language at all.
They have bigger(well, different) fish to fry.
First and foremost,they are concerned with sketching an account of theplace of meaning and mind in the universe, anaccount that finds the source of meaning in nomicregularities among kinds of events (sltuatlons)Lregularltles which, in general, are independent ofAar~uage anu mind.
For the frying of said fish, atreatment of cognitive attitudes is essential.Moreover, and not independently, for any attempt toapply their overall philosophical picture to thesemantics of natural language, the propositionalattitude contexts pose a crucial and seeminglyI"A Fragment of Situation Semantics, will containa treatment of certain kinds of Englishinterrogatives ; further out in the future,Situation ~ will contain such a moreextensive treatment.eeBreaking out of the straightjacket of thesentence is the job of Situations in Discourse.insuperable obstacleo tee Hence the fact that thebook ~ and Attitudes precedes Situation- the first lays the philosophicalfoundations for the second.
Thus the origin oftheir concern even with the classical problems ofthe propositional attitudes is different from.though by no means incompatible with, that ofMontague's.Something brief must now be said about ~-  bigpicture.
Here goes.The work of B&P can be seen as part of acontinuing debate in philosophy about the source ofthe intentlonallty o f  the mental - and the natureof meaning in general; a debate about the rightaccount to give of the phenomenon of one thing orevent or state-of-affalrs being able to represent(carry information about) another thlr~ or event orstate-of-affalrs.
On one side stand those who seethe phenomenon of Intentionallty as dependent onlanguage - no representation without notation.
Thisdoctrine is the heart of current orthodoxy in bothphilosophy o f  mind and meta-theory of cognitivepsychology.
(See, by way of best example, \[5\]:)It is also a doctrine widely thought to oepresupposed b~ the whole endeavor of ArtificialIntelligence.
On another side are those who seethe representational power of language as itselfbased on the intentlonallty of mlnd.
It The strikingthing about Barwise and Perry is that, while theystand firmly with those who deny that meaning andintentlonality essentially involve language, theyreject the thesis that intentlonallty and meaningare essentlaliy mental or mind-lnvolvlng.The source of meaning and intentlonallty is tobe found, rather, in the existence of lawllkeregularities - constraints - among kinds of events.For Barwlse-Perry, the analysis of meaning beginswith such facts as that: smoke means fire or thoseIn~t  mean measles.
The ground of such facts liese ways of the world; in the regularitiesbetween event types in virtue of which events ofone type can carry information about events ofother types.
If semantics is the theory ofmeaning, then there is no pun intended in theapplication of semantic notions to situations inwhich there is no use of language and, indeed, inwhich there are no minds.Meaning's natural home is the world, formeaning arises out of the regular relationsthat hold among situations, among bits ofreality.
We bel ieve linguistic meaningshould be seen within this general pictureof a world teeming with meaning, a worldfull of information for organismsappropriately attuned to that meaning, tie\[3\]There is yet another dimension to thephilosophical debate, one to which Barwise andPerry often allude:Some theories stress the power oflanguage to classify minds, the mentalsignificance of language, and treat themeeI shall return to this theme below.JWho knows?
Maybe it is.eeTheae latter can, in turn, be divided intothose who seek a naturalistic, in principlephysicallst, account and those who, like Frege andChurch, pose no such demand.
"eeFor an important philosophical predecessor,see \[~\].29classification of (external) events asderivative .... A second approach  is to focuson the external significance of language,on its connection with the described worldrather than the describing mind.
Sentencesare classified not by the ideas theyexpress, but by how they describe thlngs tobe .... Frege adopted a third strategy.
Hepostulated a third realm, a realm neitherof ideas nor of worldly events, but ofsenses.
Senses are the "philosopher'sstone", the medium that coordinates allthree elements in our equation: minds,words and objects.
Hinds grasp senses,words express them, and objects arereferred to by them .... One way of  regardingthe crucial notion of Intension in possibleworld semantlos is a deve lopment  of Frege'snotion of  sense.
\[3\]Barwlse and Perry clearly opt for the secondapproach.
This is one reason for their concernwith the problems posed by the propositionalattitudes; for it has often been argued that thesecontexts doom any attempt at a theory of the secondtype.
This is the burden o f  the dreaded"Sllngshot" - a weapon we shall ~aze a t  later.
F?rthe  moment,  though,  I want  s imp ly  to  note  ~neconnect ion  o f  th i s  d imens ion  w i th  that  about  thesource  and nature  o f  in tent iona l i ty .
Jus t  as  (someparticular features of) a particular X-ray carriesinformation about the individual on which themachine was trained, e .g .
,  that its leg is broken,so too does an utterance by the doctor of thesentence "It's bone is broken", in a context inwhich that same individual is what's referred to by?
it".
One can,  of course, learn things about theX-ray and the X-ray machine as well as about the~ oor patient; Just so, one can learn thlnEs about he doctor from her utterance.
In both cases, the~ ainlng of this ~ information is grounded n certain regularlties, in the one casemechanical, optical and electro-magnetic; in theother, perceptual, cognitive, and social-conventional.
More to the point, in all cases thecentral locus of meaning is a relation, aregularity, between types of situation and theprimary focus of significance is an external eventor event-type.
~Now, alas, for that return to set theory.
Ihave studiously avoided telling the reader whatsituations,, events and/or event-~ypes are.
Indeed,I haven't even said which, if any, of these aretechnical terms of Situation Semantics.
Later Ishall say enough (I hope) to generate an intuitivefeel for situations; still, I have been speaklngfreely of the centrality of  relations betweenevents or between event-types.
Set-thecretlcally-speaking, such relations are going to be (or berepresented by) collections of ordered-palrs.C~llections, but not sets.
These collections areproper classes relative to KPU; so, if thls be thelast word on the matter, those very regularities socentral to the account are not themselves availablewithin the account - that is, they are not(represented by) set-theoretic constructs generatedfrom the primitives by way of the resources of ~PU.For all such  constructs are finite, me~eedless to say, that isn't the last word on thematter.
Still, this is scarcely the place for anextenced treatment of the issue; I raise it heresimply to drive home a point about that first?
Needless to say, we can talk about both mindsand mental events and languages and linguisticevents~ the key point is simply that a languageuser is not "really" always talklr~ first andforemost about his/her own mental state.
We arenot doomed to pathologlcal self-lnvolvement bybeing doomed to speak an d think.l.Assuming that we stick to an interpretationwithin the hereditarily finite sets, as we can.similarity between Montague and SituationSemantics.
Montague wanted a very strongbackEround theory within which models can beconstructed precisely because he didn't want tohave  to worry about any (size) constraints on suchmodels.
B&Pput  their money on a very weak settheory precisely because they want there to be suchconstraints; in particular because they want toerect a certain kind of barrier to the infinite.Obviously, large issues loom on the horizon; let'sleave them there.I want now briefly to discuss 3 major aspects ofSituation Semantics, aspects in which it differsfairly dramatically from Montague semantics.
Inpassing.
I will at leas t  j~ .
.
at theinterrelationships among these, asloe fromparticular points of difference, remember that inthe background there lurks a general conception ofthe use of language and its place in the overallscheme of things, a conception that is meant toinform and constrain detailed proposals.III THE PRINCIPLE OF EFFICIENCYOne other respect in which Barwise and Perry areorthodox is their acceptance of a form of theof , the principle thatthe meaning of a complex expression is a runctlonof the meanings of its constituents.
This is theprinciple that is supposed to explain theproouctivity or generatlvity of languases, and theability of finite creatures to master them.
Butfor Barwise and Perry, an at least equallyimportant principle is the Principle ~ .~Efflciencv of  i ~ . "
This principle isconcerned with the ability of different people atdifferent times and places and in differentcontexts to (re)use the self-same sentence to saydifferent things - to impart different pieces ofinformation.
So, to adopt their favorite example.if Mitch now says to me, "You're dead wrong", whathe says - what he asserts to be the case - is verydifferent from what I would say if I were to utterthe very same sentence directed at him.
m" The verysame sentence is used, "with the same meanir~"; butthe message or information carried by its usediffers.
Moreover, the difference issystematically related to differences in thecontexts in which the utterances are made.- Barwise and Perry take this phenomenon, oftencalled indexlcality or token-reflexlvlty and alltoo often localized to the occurrence of particularwords (e.g.
t I , you , here , now , this ,"that"), to oe of the essence of natural languages.They also note, however, that their relationalaccount of meaning shows it to be a central featureof meaning in general.IT\]hat smoke pouring out of the thewindow over there means that thatparticular building is on fire.
Now thespecific situation, smoke pouring out ofthat very building at that very time, willnever be repeated.
The next time we seesmoke pouring out a building, it will be anew situation, and so wil l  in one sensemean something else.
It will mean that thebuilding in the new situation is on fire atthe new time.
Each of these specific smokysituations means something, that thebuilding then and there is on fire.
Thisis...event meaning.
The meaningfulsituations had something in common, the~were of a co~n type, smoke pouring out o~a building, a type that means fire.
Thisis ...event-tYPe meanin~...What aparticular case of smoke pouring out of abuildlng means, what it tells us about themB&P choose to call such principles "semanticuniversals" - an unhappy choice, I think.J eWhlch ,  o f  course ,  ~ would  never  do.30wider world, is determined by the meaningof smoke pouring out of a building and theparticulars of this case of it.
\[3\]Moreover, B&P contend that the fact that modernformal semantics grew out of a concern with thelanguage(s) of matSematics has caused those workingwithin the orthodox model-theoretic traditioneither to ignore or to slight this crucialfeature.
*A preoccupation with the language ofmathematics, and with the seemingly e6ernalnature of its sentences, led the foundersof our field to neglect the efficiency oflanguage.
In our opinion this was acritical blunder, for efficiency lies atthe very heart of meaning.
\[3\]A.
A Little BackgroundSure enough, indexicallty gave nightmares toboth Frege and Russell.
** It might seem that theissue of indexicality did not escape Montague'sattention; and it didn't.
Indeed, as Thomasonsays, "As a formal discipline, the study ofindexioals, owes much of its development toMQnta~e and his students" \[22\].
(See especially\[10\] and \[11, 12\].)
This last is most especial lytrue with respect to the work of David Kaplan, botha student and a colleague of Montague's.
ForKaplan disagreed with Montague precisely about theextent to which the formal treatment of contexts ofutterances should be accommodated to the treatmentof Intensionailty via possible worlds.
And B&Pstart from where Kaplan leaves off.
\[7, 8\]I shall assume once again the right to besketchy: Montague adopted a very narrow stancetowards issues in pragmatics, concerning himselfso*ely with indexicais and tense and not concerninghimself at aii with other issues about the purposesof speakers and hearers and the corresponding usesof sentences.
**e In addition, the treatment offormal pragmatics was to follow the lead of formalsemantics: the central notion to be investigatedwas that of truth of a sentence, but now reiatlveto both an interpretation and a eontext of use or~oint of reference.
(See \[10, 11, 12, 18\].)
Theworking hypothesis" was that one could and shouldgive a thoroughly uniform treatment of indexicalltywithin the model-theoretic framework deployed forthe treatment of the indexlcal-free constructions.Thus, for example, in standard quantif icationaltheory, one of the "parameters" of aninterpretation is a domain or universe ofdiscourse; in standard accounts of modal languages,another parameter is a set of possible worlds; intense logics, a set of points of time.
Why stopthere?
It is clear when we ~et to indexicals thatthe three parameters I've just mentioned aren'tsufficient to determine a function to truth-values.Just think of two simultaneous utterances of "Youare dead wrong" in the same world, with all other*Barbara Grosz hints at agreement with thisJudgment.
"\[O\]ne place that situation semantics ismore compatible with efforts in natural-languageprocessing than previous approaches \[is tha?\]context and facts about the world participate attwo points: (I) in interpretation, for determiningsuch things as who the speaker is, the time ofutterance..; (2) in evaluation, for determiningsuch things as..whether the relationships expressedin the utterance hold.
"**For the former, see \[14\], see also \[15\].m**Stalnaker is a wonderful example of someoneworking within the Montague tradition who does takethe wider issues of praEmatics to heart.
See \[19\].things equal except speaker and addressee.
In theinterests of uniformity, stuff all such parametersinto structures called points of reference, and whoknows how many we'll need - see \[9\], where pointsof reference are called indices.
Then the meaningof a sentence is a function from points ofreferences into truth values.A number of researchers working within theMontaEue tradition (in a sense there was , ,~  ucner)were unhappy with this particular result ofMontague's quest for generality; the most importantapostate being Kaplan.
s There are complex technicalissues involved in the apostasy, centrally thoseinvolving the interaction of indexical andintenslonal constructions - interactions which, atthe very least, cast doubt on the doctrine that theintenslons of expressions are total functions fromthe set of points of reference to extensions of theexpression at that point of reference.
** The endresult, anyway, is the proposal for some type of anon-unlform two-step account.
Montaguesque pointsof reference should be broken in two, with posslbieworlds (and possibly, moments of time) playing onerole and contexts of use (possibly inciudlngmoments of time) another, different, role.In this scheme, sentences get associated withfunctions from contexts of use to propositions andthese in turn are functions from contexts to truth-values.
Contexts, upon "application" to utterancesof sentences, yield determinate propositions;worlds (world-times) function rather as points ofevaluation, yielding truth values of determinatepropositions.
***B&P, however, go beyond Kaplan's treatment, andin more than one direction.
Cruclaily, thetreatment of indexlcailty proper is only one aspectof the account of efficiency, in some ways, theleast intriguing of the lot.
Still, to drive homethe first point: as it is with smoke pouring out ofbuildings, so too is it with sentences.
Thesyntactic and semantic rules of a language,conventional regularities or constraints, determznethe meaning - the event-type meaning - of asentence; features of the context of use of anutterance of that type get added in to determinewhat is actually said with that use.
This is theevent meaning of the utterance, also called itsinterpretation.
Finally, that interpretation canbe evaluated, either in a context which isessentially the same as the context of use, or someother; thereby yielding an evaluation of theutterance, (finally) a truth value.B.
Beyond IndexicalitvFor B&P, the features of the context of use gobeyond those associated with the presence ofexplicit indexical items in the utterance - peoplewith personal pronouns, places with "locatives",times with tense markers and temporal indicators.In particular they mention two such parameters:speaker connections and resource situations.
Someaspects of the former can be looked on as aspectsof indexicality, following the lines of Kaplan'streatment of demonstratives.
But in otherrespects, e.g., the treatment of proper names, andcertainly in the treatment of resource situations,the view they sketch seems to transcend theboundaries o~ even deviant model-theoreticsemantics.
For they mean to do justice, within aunified and systematic framework, both to the factthat the meaning of an utterance type*See \[7.
8\].
Others included Stalnaker and Kamp.See \[19, 20\] and \[6\].
**The extension appropriate to sentences andclauses being truth values.
***There is even a version of this called "two-dimensional modal logic" \[20\].31"underdetermines" the interpretation of anutterance of that type and to the fact theinterpretation of an utterance "underdetermines"the information that can be imparted by thatutterance.
It is a constraint they impose onthemselves that they be able to account forsignificant regularities with respect to "the flowof information", in so far as that flow is mediatedby the use of language and in cases where theinformation is not determined by a compositionalsemantic theory.
And such cases are the norm.Compositionality holds only at the level of event-type or linguistic meaning.
The claim is thatseeing linguistic meaning as a special case of therelational nature of meaning - that meaning residesin regularities between kinds of situations- allows them to produce an account which satisfiesthis constraint.c.
Names$9~" let me say something about proper names andsome~nlng ease aoout resource situations.
Let usput aside for the moment the semantic type thatpoor little "David Israel" gets assigned in \[13\].Instead, we shall pretend that it gets associatedwith some individual."
But which individual?Surely with one named "David Israel"; but there arebunches of such, and many, many more Davids.
Theprobleml of course, is that proper names aren'tproper.
~* Just as surely, at the level oflinguistic meaning it makes no sense for me to ~special treatment with respect to my name.Still, if you (or I) hear M_Itch Marcus.
right aftermy talk, complaining to someone that "David is deadwrong", we'll know who's being maligned.
Why so?Because we are aware of the speaker s connections;more finely, of the relevant connections in thisinstance.
At the level of event-type or linguisticmeaning, the contribution of a name is to refer toan individual of that name.
**'e On the other hand,it is a feature of the context of use, that thespeaker of an utterance containing that name isconnected in certain ways to such and suchindividual~ of that name.
Surely Mirth knows lotsof Davids and we might find him saying "Davidthinks that David is really dead wrong".
Ofcourse, he ~ht  be talking about someone inclinedto harsh and "oSJectlve" self-crlticiam; ~robablynot.Just one more thing about names and speakerconnections.
I noted above that for B&P, theinterpretation of an utterance eventunderdetermines the information carried by thatevent.
The use of names is a locus of niceexamples of this.
It is no part of theinterpretation (event meaning) of Hitch's complaintabout me that my name is "David"; but someone whosaw him say this while he (Mitch, that is) wassurreptitiously looking can learn that myname is "David", or even t~a~a{am the David Israelwho gave the talk on Situation Semantics.
Evenwithout that, someone could learn that Mitch knowsl is connected with) at least one person so named.
Of course, there are possibilities for"misinformation" here, too.)
Just so, when I*Some possible individual?
My grandmother, forone, would have disagreed.
So, too, dc B&P.
*'Mostly not; but how about "Tristan Tzara", topick a name out of a hat?
***English should have no truck with (even)benign analogues of bills of attainder.
***eIt's a nice question whether some na~.es carr~with them, at the linguistic level, speciesinformation as well.
But surely it doesn't seem toDe an asuse of English to call, say, a platypus"David Israel".introduce myself by saying "I'm David Israel", theinterpretation of what I say on that occasion i3singularly uninteresting, being (roughly speaking)an instance of the law of self-identity.
But Iwill have conveyed the information I wanted to,namely that I am a David Israel, that "DavidIsrael" is my name (though not mine alone).
That'swhy we engage in the (otherwise inexplicable)custom of making introductions.
Anthropologyaside, the central point is that SituationSemantics is meant to give us an account in whichwe can explain and predict such regularities in theflow of information as that exploited by theconvention of introductions.
This account must showhow such regularities are related to theconventional regularities that determine thelinguistic meaning of sentence types and thepatterns of contextual determination which thengenerate the meanings of particular utteranceevents.D.
Defining DescriptionsAn analogue of the problem of the impropriety oftalk of proper names arises with respect todefinite descriptions.
Take a wild and woolysentence such as "The dog is barking".
Again, wewant the denotations of such definite descriptionsto be Just plain individuals; but again, whichindividuals?
Surely, there is more than one dog inthe world; does the definite description fail torefer because of non-uniqueness?
Hardly; at thelevel of sentence meaning, there is no question ofit's referring to some one individual dog.
Ratherwe must introduce into our semantic account a~ arameter for a set of resource situations.
uppose, for " instance, that we have fixed aspeaker, an audience and a (spatio-temporal)location of utterance of our sentence.
These threeare the main constituents of the parameter B&P calla discourse situation; note that this one parameter~ retty much covers the contextual features ontague-Kaplan had in mind.
Suppose also that adog t otherwise unknown to our speaker and hls/heraudience, just walked by the front porch, on whichour protagonists are sitting.
When the speakerutters the sentence he/she is exploiting asituation in which bo{h speaker and audience saw alone dog stroll by; he/she is not describing eitherthat particular recent situation or such asltuation-type - there may have been many such; thetwo of them often sit out on that porch, theneighborhood is full of dogs.
Rather, the speakeris referring to a situation in which that dog isbarking.
Which dog?.
The one "contributed" by theresource situation; the one who just strolled by.It is an aspect of the linguistic meaning of adefinite description that a resource situationshould enter into the determination of itsreference on a particular occasion of use; thus, anaspect of the meanings of sentences that a resourcesituation be a a parameter in the determination ofthe interpretations (event meanings) of sententialutterances.
Moreover, one can imagine cases wherewhat is of interest is precisely some feature ofwhich resource situation a speaker is exploiting ona particular occasion.
And here, too, as in thecase of names or, more generally, of speakerconnections, the claim is that the relationaltheory of meaning and the consequent emphasis onthe centrality of the Principle of Efficiency giveSituation Semantics a handle on a range ofregularities connecting uses of languages withvarieties of information that can be conveyed bysuch uses.IV LOGICAL FORM AND ENTAILMENTAs we have noted, Barwlse and Perry's treatmentof efficiency goes beyond indexlcality and, asembedded within their overall account, goes wellbeyond a Kaplan-Montague theory.
An importanttheme in this regard is the radical de-emphaslzlngof the role of entailment in their semantic theoryand the correlative fixing on statements, notsentences, as the primary locus of interpretation.This is yet another way in which B&P go beyondKaplan's forays beyond Montague.I have said that in standard (or even mildly32deviant) model-theoretic accounts the key notion isthat of truth on an interpretation, or in a model.Having said this, I might as well say that the keynotion is that o f  entailment or logicalconsequence.
A set of sentences S entails asentence A iff there is no interpretation on whichall of the sentences in S are true and A i3 false.From the purely model-theoretic point of view, thisrelation can be thought of as holding not betweensentences, but between propositions (conceived ofas  the intenslons or meanings of sentences).
Forinstance, it might be taken to hold between sets ofpossible worlds.
Still, it is presumed (to put itmildly) that an important set of such relationsamong non-linguistic objects have syntacticrealizations in relations holding among sentenceswhich express those propositions.
Moreover, thatsentences stand in these relations is a function ofcertain specifiable aspects of their syntactic type- their "logical form".In artificial, logical languages, thispresumption of syntactic realization can be mademore or less good; and anyway, the connectionsbetween, on the one hand, syntactic types and modesof composition, and semantic values on the other,must be made completely explicit.
In particular,one specifies a set o f  expresslons as the logicalconstants of the language, specifies how to buildup complex expressfons by the use of thoseconstants, operating ultimately on the "non-logicalconstants", and then - ipso facto - one has a ~ erfectly usable and precise notion of loglcai orm.In the standard run of such artificiallanguages, sentences (that is: sentence types,there be ing no need for a notion of tokens) can be,and typically are, assigned truth-values as theirsemantic values.
Such languages do not allow forindexicality; hence the talk about "eternalsentences".
The linguistic meaning of such asentence need not be distinguished from the~roposltion expressed by a partlcular use of it.
*unce Inuexicality is taken seriously, one can nolonger attribute truth-values to senhences.
(Notehow this way of putting things suggests Just theunification of the treatment of indexlcallty withthat of modality that appealed to Montague.)
Onecan still, however, take as central the notion of asentence being true in a context on aninterpretation.
The main reason for this move isthat it allows one to develop a fairly standardnotion of logical consequence or entailment at thelevel of sentences.
Roughly, a set of sentences Sentails a sentence A i f f  for every interpretationand for every context of use of thatinterpretation: if every sentence in S is true in agiven context, then so too is A.Barwlse&Perry are prepared to deemphaslzeradically the notion of entaliment among sentences.As they fully realize they must provide a newnotion - a notion of one statement following fromanother.At the very least then, our theory willseek to account for why the truth ofcertain ~ follows from the truthof other 9 _ ~ .
This move has severalimportant consequences...There is a lot ofinformation available from utterances thatis simply missed in traditional accounts,accounts that ignore the relational aspectof meaning...A semantic theory must go farbeyond traditional "patterns ofinference"...A rather startllng consequenceof this is that there can be no syntacticcounterpart, of the kind traditionallysought in proof theory and theories ofloglcal form, to the semantic theory ofconsequence.
For consequence is simply nota relation between purely syntacticelements.
*Hence part, at least, of the oddity of talkabout using such a language by uttering sentencesthereof.What's at stake here?
A whole lot, I fear.First, utterances - e.g., the makings of assertions- are actions.
They are not l inguistic items atall; they have no logical forms.
Of course, theytypically involve the production of l inguistictokens, which - by virtue of being of such and suchtypes - may have such forms.
(Typically, but notalways - witness the shaking or nodding of a head,the winking of an eye, the pointing of a finger,all in appropriate contexts of use, of co,, ~e.
)Thus, entailment relations among s~acements(utterances) can't be cashed in directly in termsof relations holding among sentences in virtue ofspecial aspects of their syntactic shape.
Rememberwhat was said above about the main reason foropting out of an account based on statements andfor an account based on sentence(type)-in-a-context.
If you  don't remember, let me (and DavidKaplan) remind you:First, it is important to distinguish anutterance from a sentence-ln-~-context.The former notion is from the theory ofspeech acts, the latter from semantics.
IUtterances take time, and utterances ofdistinct sentences can not be simultaneous(i.e., in the same context).
But in orderto develop a logic of demonstratives itseems most natural to be able to evaluateseveral premisses and a conclusion all inthe same context.
\[8\].
(The emphasis by wayof underlining is mine - D.I.
)A logic has to do with entailment and validity;these are the central semantic notions; sentencesare their l inguistic loci.
This all soundsreasonable enough, except of course for that quiteunmotivated presumption that contexts of use can'tbe spatio-temporally extended.
And it seemscorrespondingly unreasonable when B&P opt out.IT\]he ~ "Socrates is speaking"does not follow from the sentences "Everyphilosopher is speaking", "Socrates is aphilosopher" even though this argument hasthe same "loglcal form" (on most accountsof logical form) as \["4 is an integralmultiple of 2", "All integral multiples of2 are even" (so) "4 is even".\] In thefirst place, there is the matter of tense.At the very least the three sentences wouldhave to be said at more or less the sametime for the argument to be valid.Sentences are not true or false; onlystatements made with indicative sentences,utterances of certain kinds, are true orfalse.
\[3\] (The example is mine - D.I.
)B&P simplify somewhat.
It is not required thatall three sentences be uttered simultaneously (byone speaker).
Roughly speaking, what is requiredis that the (spatio)temporal locations of theirutterance be close together and that the "sum" oftheir locations overlap with that of some utteranceof Socrates.
But that isn't all.
The speaker mustbe connected throughout to one and the sameindividual Socrates, else a pragmatic analogue ofthe fallacy of equivocation will result.
The same(or something similar) could be said about the noun ~ hrase "every philosopher", for such phrases - just ike definite descriptions - require for theirinterpretation a resource situation.
One canimagine a case wherein a given speaker, over aspecified time and at a specified place, connectedto one and the same guy named Socrates, exploitstwo different resource situations contributing twodifferent groups of philosophers, one for each of*Thls is what is known in the trade as astlpulatlve definition.33the first two utterances.
(The case is stronger,of course, if we substitute for the second sentence"Socrates is one of the  philosophers.
")It must certainly seem that too much of the babyis being tossed out with the water; but there arealleged to be (compensating?)
gains:There is a lot of information availablefrom utterances that is simply missed intraditional accounts, accounts that ignorethe relational aspect of meaning.
Ifsomeone comes up to me and says--Melaniesaw a bear."
I may learn not Just thatMelanie saw a bear, but also that thespeaker is somehow connected to Melanie ina way that allows him to refer to her using"Melanie".
And I learn that the speaker issomehow in a position to have informationabout what Melanie saw.
A semantic theorymust go far beyond traditional "patterns ofinference" to account for the externalsignificance of language...A semantictheory must account for how language fitsinto the general flow of information.
Thecapturing of entailments between statementsis Just one aspect of a real theory of theinformation in an utterance.
We think therelation theory of meaning provides theproper framework for such a theory.
Bylooking at linguistic meanir~ as a relationbetween utterances and describedsituations, we can focus on the manycoordinates that allow information to beextracted from utterances, information notonly about the situation described'ni butalso about the speaker and her place theworld.
\[3\]A.
A ~U.t~ A ~Despite the heroic sentiments just expressed,B&P scarcely eschew sentences, a semantic accountaccount of which they are, after all, aiming toprovide.
In the formal account statements getrepresented by n-tuples (of course), one element ofwhich is the sentence uttered; and if you like.
itis the sentence-under-syntactic-analysls.
(Thislast bit is misleading, but not terribly.)
Otherelements of the tuple are a discourse situation andset of speaker connections and resource situations.Any%ray, there is the sentence.
Given that, howabout their logical form~q?Before touching on that issue, let me raiseanother and related feature of the account.
Thisis the decision of B&P to let English sentences bethe domain of their purely compositional semanticfunctions.
For Montague, the "normal form"semantic interpretation of English went by way of atranslation from English into some by now "fairlystandard" logical language.
(Such languages becamefairly standard largely due to Montague's work.
)Montague always claimed that thl3 was merely apedagogical and simplifying device; and he provldeSan abstract account of how a "direct" semanticinterpretation would go.
Still, his practiceleaves one with the taste of a search for hiddenlogical forms of a familiar type underlying thegrammmtical forms of English sentences.
No suchintermediate logical language is forthcoming inSituation Semantics.
First there is ALIASS:An Artificial Language for IllustratingAspects of Situation Semantics... has moreof the structure of English than any otherartificial language we know, but it doesnot pretend to be  a fragment of English, orany sort of "logical form" of English.
Itis Just what its name implies and nothingmore.Next, and centrally, there is English.
Thedecision to present a semantic theory of Englishdirectly may make the end product look even moredifferent than it is.
It certainly has the effectof depriving us of those familiar structures forwhich familiar "theorem provers" can be specified,and thus reinforces the sense of loss for seekersafter a certain brand of entailments.
Some mayalready feel the tell tale symptoms of withdrawalfrom an acute addiction.There is, however, more to it than that - ormaybe the attendant liberation is enough.
Forinstance, are English quantifiers logicalconstants, and if so, which ones?
Which Englishquantlfiers correspond to which "formal"quantiflers?
?
Is there really a sententlai negationoperator in English?
Well, surely nit is not thecase that" seems to qualify; but how about "not"?And how about conjunction?Consider, fo r  example, a statement madewith the sentence (I) Joe admires Sarah andshe admires him.
Let us confine ourattention to the utterances in which (I)has the antecedent relations indicated by(I') Joe-1 admires Sarah-2 and she-2admires him-1.
While sentence (I) is aconjunction of two sentences, a statementmade with (1) in the way \[with theconnections - D.I.\] indicated by (I') isnot a qonJunotion of independentstatements.
\[3\]In general, if ul and u2 are two statements withthe same discourse situations and connections (andresource situations?
), some sense can be made outof a \[sic\] conjunctive or \[sic\] disjunctivestatement, with ul and u2 as "parts".
But this isnot true of arbitrary statements.
Moreover, as inthe case above, if we have a \[sic\] conjunctivestatement, there may be no coherent decompositionof it into two independent statements.
Talk ofconjunctive and especially of disjunctivestatements is likely to be wildly misleading.
Forthe latter suggests, quite wrongl\[, that theutterer is either asserting one "dis3unct" or theother.
"A statement made using a disjunctivesentence is not the disjunction of two separatestatements."
( \ [3\] .
)In an appendix to "Situations and Attitudes",B&P suggest an analogue of propositional logic forstatements within a very simple fragment of ALIASS.There is no (sentential) negation and noconditional; but more to the point, there are nounrestricted laws of statement entailment, e.g.,between an arbitrary "conjunctive statement" andits two "conjunots".
Things get even worse when weadd complex noun phrases to the fragment.
The mindboggles.V THE PROPOSITIONAL ATTITUDESHere I shall be mercilessly brlef.
I* Theconventional wisdom, from Frege through to itslogical culmination in MontaEue, has been that~ropositional attitude constructions arereferentially opaque"; more particularly, thatsubstitution of co-designatlve singular termswithin them does not preserve the truth-value ofthe whole.
Within that orthodoxy there has beendisagreement as to whether they are alsohyperintensional; that is, as to whethertSee \[I\] passim; but especially the first twosections.ImMostly because of the sheer "sex appeal" of theissues involved, and partly because of theavailability of the relevant texts, it has beentheir treatment of the propositional attitudecontexts that has made B&P a cause celebre amongphilosophers.
This is unfortunate; so I intend todo my part, by somewhat underplaying this wholetangle.34substituting necessari ly co-designative terms orlogically equivalent sentences within thempreserves truth-value.
Montague himself thoughtthey were not hyperintensionai; but he countenancedthe other view.
(And sketched an account to handleit.)
Barwise and Perry have the unique distinctionof believing that said contexts are a t  leastintensional and yet transparent to substitution ofsingular terms."
This position is both solitary andthought to be incoherent.
If it were in factuntenable, that would be most unfortunate for them,as it is also more or less mandated by theiradopting an approach centered on the externalsignificance of language.Indeed, there is supposed to be a proof that itis incoherent.
The argument in question, whichB.&P.
call the slingshot, is sometimes supposed toshow that all sentences with the same truth-valuemust designate the same thing; and hence, ofcourse, that truth-values must be the primarysemantic values of sentences.
More usually andsomewhat more technically, it has been supposed toshow that if a sentential context allowssubstitution of logically equivalent sentences andco-deslgnating definite descriptions salvaveritate, then that context must be truth-functional.
More clearly: that all modes ofsentence composition are truth-functlonal unlessthey're opaque.
That is, the only contributionmade by a sentence, so embedded, to the whole canbe its truth-value.In fact, the slingshot is not a "knockdownproof"; that it is not i s  recognized by many of itsmajor slingers(?).
(See, for instance, L16, 17\].
)Instead, in all of its forms, it rests on some formor other of two critical assumptions:I. logically equivalent sentences areintersubstitutable in all contexts salvaveritate; or, such sentences have thesame semantic value2.
the semantic value of a sentence isunchanged when a component singular termis replaced by another, co-referentlalsingular term.B&P reject the assumptions that underlie theslingshot.
Here, too, especially with respect tothe second assumption, tricky technical issuesabout the treatment of singular terms - both simpleand complex - in a standard logic with identity areinvolved.
B&P purposefully ignore these issues.They are interested in English, not in sentences ofa standard logic with identity; and anyway, thosevery same issues actually get "transformed" intoprecisely the issues about singular terms they dodiscuss, issues having to do with the distinctionbetween referential and attributive uses of(complex) singular terms.
(See their discussion in\[2\] and chapter 7 of \[3\].)
To show my strength ofcharacter, I'm not going to discuss the sexy issueof transparency to substitution of singular terms- except to say that, like Montague, B&P want auniform treatment of singular terms as these occurboth inside and outside of propositional attitudecontexts; and that they also want to have it thatthe denotations of such terms are Just plainindividual objects.
(How perverse\[) Rather, Iwant to look briefly at the first assumption aboutIThere is a class of exceptions to this, but Iwant not to get bogged down in details here.logical equivalence, i*A.
The Relation Theory of M~anin~With respect to the end-result, what's crucialis that B&P reject the alleged central consequenceof the slingshot: that the primary semantic valueof a sentence is its truth-value.
Of course, givenwhat we have already said, a better way to ~uc thisis that for them, although statements are bearersof truth-values, the primary semantic value of astatement is not its truth value.That honor is accorded to a collection ofsituations or events.
Very roughly, the story goeslike this: the syntactic and semantic rules of thelanguage associate to each sentence type a type ofsituations or states-of-affalrs; intuitively, thetype actualizations of which would be accurately,though partially, described by any statement madeusing the sentence.
* Thus:Consider the sentence "I am sitting".Its meaning is, roughly, a relation thatholds between an utterance ~ and asituation ~ Just in case there is a(spatio-temporal) location 1 and anindividual ~, i is speaking at i.  and in ~,is sitt ing at i ....
The extension of thisrelation will be a larKe class of pairs ofabstract situations.
\[3\]-Now consider a particular utterance of thatsentence, say by Mitch, at a specific location i'.Then any situation that has \[Mitch\]s i t t ing at i' will be an interpretation ofthe utterance.
An utterance usuallydescribes lots of different situations, orat any rate partially describes them.Because of this, it is sometimes useful tothink of the interpretation as the class ofsuch situations.
Then we can say that thesituations appearing in the interpretationof our utterance vary greatly in how muchthey constrain the world.. .When uttered ona specific occasion, our sentenceconstrains the described situation to be acertain way, to be llke one of thesituations in the interpretation.
Or, onemight say, it constrains the describedsituation to be one of the interpretations.\[3\]B.
On Lo~Ica lEcu iva lenceIf the primary semantic value of a sentence is acollection or a type of situations, then it is notsurprising that logically equivalent sentences- sentences true in the same models - might nothave the same semantic values, and hence, might notmmOne point to make, though, is the following:the indexical personal pronouns are certainlysingular terms.
Frege's general line on thereferential opacity of propositional attitudecontexts certainly seems at its shakiest preciselyin appiicatlon to such pronouns - and in general toindexical elements.
And remember if B&P are right,there is an element of "indexicality" in the use ofproper names.
If Mitch believes that David is deadwrong and I'm (that) David, then Mitch believesthat I'm dead wrong.
If Mitch believes that I'mdead wrong and I am David Israel.
then Mitchbelieves that (this) David Israel is wrong.\[14, 15\]ml should note that neither "situation" nor"event" is a technical term in Situation Semantics;though "event-type" is .35be intersubstitutable salvo semantic value.Consider the two sentences: (I) Joe eats and (2)Joe eats, and Sarah sleeps or Sarah doesn't sleep.Let's grant that (I) and (2) are logicallyequivalent.
But do they have the same "referent"or semantic value?If we think that sentences stand forsituations..then we will not be at allinclined to accept the first principlerequired in the slingshot.
The twologically equivalent sentences just do nothave the same subject matter, they do notdescribe situations involving the sameobjects and properties.
The first sentencewill stand for all the situations in whichJoe eats, the second sentence for thosesituations in which Joe eats and Sarahsleeps plus those in which Joe eats andSarah doesn't sleep.
Sarah is present inall of these.
Since she is not present inmay of the situations that "Joe eats"stands for, these sentences, thoughlogically equivalent, do not stand for thesame entity.
(Obviously B&P are hereignoring the "indexlcality" inherent inproper uses of proper names - D.I.)
\[3\]Notice that without so much as a glance in thedirection of a single propositional attitudecontext, we can see how B&P can avoid certain well-known troubles that plague the standard model-theoretic treatments o~ such constructions.
*Moreover and most importantly, they gain these finepowers of discrimination among "meanings" withoutfollowing either Frege into a third realm of senseor Fodor (?)
deep into the recesses of the mind.The significance of sentences, even as they occurin propositional attitude contexts, is out into thesurrounding world, t*VI THE BOTTOM LINEWhat's the bottom line?
Clearly, it's too soonto say.
Indeed, I assume many of you will simplywant to wait until you can look at least at sometreatment of some fragment of English.
Otherswould llke as well to get some idea of how theproject of Situation Semantics might be realizedcomputationally.
For instance, it is clear evenfrom what little I've said that the semantic valuesof various kinds of expression types are going tobe quite different from the norm and much thoughtwill be needed to specify a formalism forrepresenting and manipulating these representationsadequately.
Again, wouldn't it be nice to be toldsomething at least about the metaphysics ofSituation Semantics, about situations, abstract,actual, factual and real - all four types figure insome way in the account; about events, event-types,courses-of-events, schema, etc?
Yes, it would benice.
Some, no doubt, were positively lustingafter the scoop on how B&P handle the classic~ uzzles of intensionality with respect to singular erms.
And so on.
All in good time.What I want to do, instead, is to end with aclaim, Barbara Grosz's claim in fact, that*On this point, compare, e.g., \[22\].
I do notmean to imply that there aren't good reasons fordenying the hyperintensionality of thepropositional attitudes.
There are.
See \[21\]Still, no one doubts that such a position iscounter-intuitlve.t'Actually, there is another big issue loominghere, the one that hangs on B&P's opting for atreatment which takes properties and relations,intensionally conceived, as primitive - instead,that is, of pretending that properties arem m functions from possible worlds into sets.
Sets,of course, there are; but so too are thereproperties.attention should be paid.
At the moment, thebottom line with respect to Situation Semantics isnot, I think, to be arrived at by toting uptechnical details, as bedazzling as these willdoubtless be.
Rather, it is to be gotten at byattention precisely to THE BIG PICTORE.The relational theory of meaning, and morebroadly, the centrality in Situation Semantics ofthe "flow of information" - the view that that partof this flow that is mediated by the uses oflanguage should be seen as "part and parcel of thegeneral flow of information that uses naturalmeaning" - allows reasoned hope for a theoreticalframework within which work in pragmatics ann onetheory of speech acts, as well  research in thetheory of discourse, can find a proper place.
Inmany of these areas, there is an abundance ofinsight, harvested from close descriptive analysesof a wide range of phenomena - a range hithertohidden from both orthodox linguists andphilosophers.
There are now even glimmerings ofregularities.
But there has been no overarchingtheoretical structure within which to systematizethese insights, and those scattered reguiaritles,and through which to relate them to the results ofsyntactic and formal semantic analyses.
SituationSemantics may help us in developing such aframework.This last is a good point at which to stop; so Ishall.ACKNOWLEDGEMENTSThis research was supported in part by theDefense Advanced Research Projects Agency,monitored by ONR under Contract No.
N000~-777C-0378 and in part by the Office of Naval Researcnunder Contract No.
N00014-77-C-0371.
Also,special thanks are due to B&P-  who, of cpurse~_aresolely responsible for ai?
~ne we&ro loeaspresented in this paper.
Any remainingresponsibility is to be charged to Hitch Marcus,who suggested I do this, and to Brian Smith, whoagreed.\[I\]\[2\]\[3\]\[4\]\[5\]\[6\]REFERENCESBarwise, J. and Cooper, R.Generalized Quantifiers and Natural Language./ ~  andPhilosoPhY 2(2):159-219, 1981.Barwise, K.J.
and Perry, J.R.Semantic Innocence and UncompromisingSituations.In French, Vehling, and Wettstein (editors),Studies in philosoohv, pages387-~04.
University of Minnesota Press,Minneapolis, 1981.Barwise, K.J.
and Perry, J.R.Situations and Attitudes.Bradford Books, Cambridge MA, 1983.Dretske, F.Knowledge and the F!ow of ~ .Bradford Books, Cambridge MA, 1981.Fodor, J. A.The Language of Thought.Crowell, New York, 1975.Kamp, H.Formal Properties of 'Now'.Theoria 37:227-273, 1971.36\[7\]\[8\]\[9\]\[10\]\[11\]\[12\]\[13\]\[14\]\[15\]\[16\]\[17\]Kaplan, D.Demonstratives.1977.unpublished manuscript.Kaplan, D.On the Logic of Demonstratives.In French, Vehling, and Wettstein (editors),Persepeetivesln philosophyof La~uage, pages 401-a12.
University ofMinnesota Press, Minneapolis, 1979.Lewis, D.General Semantics.In Davidson, D. and Harman, G. (editors),~ of Natural Language, pages169-218.
Reidel, Boston, 1972.2nd edition.Montague, R.Pragmatics.In Thomason, R. (editor), F o r m a l S ,pages 95-118.
Yale University Press, NewHaven, 1974.Montague, R.Pragmatics and Intensional Logic.In Thomason, R. (editor), Formal ~ ,pages 119-I~7.
Yale University Press, NewHaven, 1974.Montague, R.Universal Grammar.In Thomason, R. (editor), Formal Philosophy,pages 222-246.
Yale University Press, NewHaven, 1974.Montague, R.The Proper Treatment of Quantification inOrdinary English.In Thomason, R. (editor), Formal ~ ,pages 247-270.
Yale University Press, NewHaven, 1974.Perry, J.R.Frege on Demonstratives.PhilosophicalReview LXXXVI(4):474-497, October, 1977.Perry, J.R.The Problem of the Essential Indexical?Nous 13(I):3-21, 1979.Quine, W.V.O.Reference and Modality.In From A Logical Point of View, pages139-159.
Harper & Row, New York, 1961.2nd edition.Quine, W.V.O.Three Grades of Modal Involvement.In The Ways of Paradox and Other Essays,pages 156-174.
Random House, New York,1966.\[18\]\[19\]\[20\]\[21\]\[22\]Scott, D.Advice on Modal Logic.In Lambert, K. (editor), philosophicalProblems in Logic, pages 143-173.
Reidel,Dordrecht, 1970.Stalnaker, R.Pragmatics.In Davidson, D. and Harman, G. (editors),~ of Natural Language, pages380-397.
Reidel, Boston, 1972.2rid edition.Stalnaker , R.Assertion.In Cole, P. (editor), ~ ,  pages315-332.
Academic Press, New York, 1978.Stalnaker, R?Propositions.1982.unpublished ms.Thomason, R.In t roduct ion .In Thomason, R. (editor), Formal philosophy,pages 1-69.
Yale University Press, NewHaven, 1974.37
