Automat ic  Recognit ion of  Intonation PatternsJanet B. PierrehumbertBell LaboratoriesMurray Hill, New Jersey 079741.
IntroductionThis paper is a progress report on a project in linguisticallybased automatic speech recognition, The domain of this projectis English intonation.
The system I will describe analyzesfundamental frequency contours (F0 contours) of speech interms of the theory of melody laid out in Pierrehumbert (1980).Experiments discussed in Liberman and Pierrehumbert (1983)support the assumptions made about intonational phonetics, andan F0 synthesis program based on a precursor to the presenttheory is described in Pierrehumbert (1981).One aim of the project is to investigate the descriptive adequacyof this theory of English melody.
A second motivation is tocharacterize cases where F0 may provide useful informationabout stress and phrasing.
The third, and to my mind the mostimportant, motivation depends on the observation that Englishintonation is in itself a small language, complete with a syntaxand phonetics.
Building a recognizer for this small language is arelatively tractable problem which still presents some of theinteresting features of the general speech recognition problem.In particular, the F0 contour, like other measurements ofspeech, is a continuously varying time function without overtsegmentation.
Its transcription is in terms of a sequence ofdiscrete elements whose relation to the quantitative level ofdescription is not transparent.
An analysis of a contour thusrelates heterogeneous levels of description, one quantitative andone symbolic.
In developing speech recognizers, we wish toexploit achievements in symbolic computation.
At the sametime, we wish to avoid forcing into a symbolic frameworkproperties which could more insightfully or simply be treated asquantitative.
In the case of intonation, our experimental resultssuggest both a division of labor between these two levels ofdescription, and principles for their interaction.The next section of this paper sketches the theory of Englishintonation on which the recognizer is based.
Comparisons toother proposals in the literature are not made here, but can befound in the papers just cited.
The third section describes apreliminary implementation.
The fourth contains discussion andconclusions.2.
Background on intonation2.1 PhonologyThe primitives in the theory are two tones, low (L) and high(H).
The distinction between L and H is paradigmatic; that is,L is lower than H would be in the same context.
It can easily betreated as a distinction in a single binary valued feature.Utterances consist of one or more intonation phrases.
Themelody of an intonation phrase is decomposed into a sequence ofelements, each made up of either one or two tones.
Some areassociated with stressed syllables, and others with the beginningand end of the phrase.
Superficially global characteristics ofphrasal F0 contours are explicated in terms of the concatenationof these local elements.Bt75  -150 -N ..l-z t25 -oI,,I.100-75-i I I It SEC.INO ONE WAS WEARIER THAN ELI  E IL IECHFigure I: An F0 contour with three H* pitch accents, whichcome out as peaks.
The alignment of "Elimelech" is indicated.
*This work was done at MIT under NSF Grant No.
IST-8012248.850200475N:= 450zO 125  It.1OO754 SECI I I 1 I i lf\\| ?L.\_NO ONE WAS WEARIER THAN ELI E ECHFigure 2: The two H+L" accents in this contour are circled.Compare the FO contour on the stressed syllable in "Elimelcch"to that in Figure 1.The characteristic FO configurations on stressed syllables are dueto pitch accents, which consist of either a single tone or asequence of two tones.
For example, each peak circled in Figure1 is attributed to a H pitch accent.
The steps circled in Figure 2are analyzed as H+L, because they have a relatively higherlevel just before the stress and a relatively lower \[eve\[ on thestress, In two tone accents, which tone fails on the stress isdistinctive, and will be transcribed with a *.
\[n this notation,the circled accents in Figure 2 are H+L*.
Seven differentaccents arc posited altogether.
Some possible accents do notoccur because they would be neutralized in every context by therealization rules.
Different ypes of pitch accents can be mixedb)450 -~ 4409080-  %70ANNE300-  )250 ; -N-r"200 -450-IOin one phrase.
Also, material which is presupposed in thediscourse may be unaccented.
\[n this case, the surrounding tonalelements control its F0 contour.The tonal correlates of phrasing are the boundary tones, whichcontrol the FO at the onset and offset of the phrase, and anadditional element, the phrase accent, which controls the FObetween the last pitch accent and the final phrase boundary.
Theboundary tones and the phrase accent are all single tones, eitherL or H. In what follows, a "%" will be used as the diacritic for aboundary tone.
Figure 3 shows two pitch contours in which a Lphrase accent is followed by a H% boundary tone.
When the lastpitch accent is early in the phrase, as in 3A, the level of thephrase accent is maintained over a fairly long segmental string("doesn't hink").
In 3B, on the other hand, the pitch accent,phrase accent, and boundary tone have all been compressed ontoa single syllabic.As far as is known, different pitch accents, phrase accents, andboundary tones combine freely with each other.
This means thatFigure 3: Both of these contours have a L '+H accent followedby a L phrase accent and a H% boundary tone.
In 3A, theaccent is on "father-in-law".
and the L H% sequcnce determinesthe FO contour on the rest of the utterance.
The alignment ofthe speech segments with the FO contour is roughly indicated bythe placement of lettering.
In 3B, L '+H L H% is compressedonto a monosyllabic.t sYOUR FATHER- IN-LAW DOESN'T THINK SO %86BOUNDARY PI TCHTONE ACCENTSFigure 4: The grammar of thePierrehumbert (1980).the grammar of English phrasal melodies can be represented bya transition network, as shown in Figure 4.
This grammardefines the level of description that the recognizer attempts torecover.
There is no effort to characterize the meaning of thetranscriptions established, since our focus is on the soundstructure of speech rather than its meaning.
In production, thechoice of loci for pitch accents depends on the focus structure ofthe sentence.
The choice among different melodic elementsappears to be controlled by the attitudes of the speaker and therelation of his phrase to others in the discourse.
Meaningssuggested in the literature for such elements include surprise,contradiction, elicitation, and judiciousness.2.2 PhoneticsTwo types of rules have a part in relating the tonal level ofdescription to the continuously varying F0 contour.
One set ofrules maps tones into crucial points, or targets, in the F0contour.
Both the small tonal inventory and the sequentialdecomposition proposed depend on these rules being nontrivial.Specifically, a rule of downstep lowers a H tone in the contextsH+L _ and H L+ w. The value of the downsteppod H is afixed fraction of the value for the preceding H, once a phrasalconstant reflecting pitch range is subtracted, herativeapplication of this rule in a sequence of accents which meet itsstructural description generates an exponential decay to anonzero asymptote.
A related rule, upstep, raises a H% after aH phrase accent.
This means that the L* H H% melody oftenused in yes/no questions (and illustrated in Figure 5 below)takes the form of a rise--plateau--rise in the F0 contour.Differences in the relative level of accent tones can also resultfrom differences in the emphasis on the material they areassociated with.
This is why the middle H ?
in Figure 1 is lowerthan the other two, for example.A second class of rules computes transitions between one targetand the next.
These fill in the F0 contour, and are responsiblefor the FO on syllables which carry no tone.
Transitions are notalways monotonic; in Figure 1, for example, the F0 dips betweeneach pair of H accents.
Such dipping can be found between twotargets which are above the low part of the range.
Its extentseems to depend on the time-frequency separation of the targets.PHRASE BOUNDARYACCENT TONEphrasal tunes of English given inIn certain circumstances, a single tone gives rise to a flat stretchin the F0 contour.
For example, the phrase accent in Figure 3Ahas spread over two words.
This phenomenon could be treatedeither at a phonological level, by linking the tone to a largenumber of syllables, or at a phonetic level, by positing asustained style of transition.
There are some interestingtheoretical points here, but they do not seem to affect the designof an intonation recognizer.Note that the rules just described all operate in a small window,as defined on the sequence of tonal units.
To a goodapproximation, the realization of a given tonal element can becomputed without look-ahead, and looking back no further thanthe previous one.
Of course, the window size could never bestated so simply with respect o the segmental string; two pitchaccents could, for example, be squeezed onto adjacent syllablesor separated by many syllables.
One of the crucial assumptionsof the work, taken from autosegmental nd metrical phonology,is that the tonal string can be projected off the segmental string.The recognition system will make strong use of the localityconstraint that this projection makes possible.2.3 SummaryThe major theoretical innovations of the description justsketched have important computational consequences.
Thetheory has only two tones, L and H, whereas earlier tone-leveltheories had four.
In combination with expressive variation inpitch range, a four tone system has too many degrees of freedomfor a transcription to be recoverable, in general, from the F0contour.
Reducing the inventory to two tones raises the hope ofreducing the level of ambiguity to that ordinarily found innatural anguage.
The claim that implementation rules for tonalelements are local mean that the quantitative vidence for theoccurrence of a particular element is confined to a particulararea of the F0 contour.
This constraint will be used to simplifythe control structure.
A third claim, that phrasal tunes areconstructed syntactically from a small number of elements,means that standard parsing methods are applicable to therecognition problem.3.
A recognition systemThe recognition system as currently implemented has threecomponents, described in the next three sections.
First, the F0contour is preprocessed with a view to removing pitch tracking87errors and minimizing the effects of the speech segments.
Then,a schematization i terms of events is established, by findingcrucial features of the smoothed contour through analysis of thederivatives.
Events are the interface between the quantitativeand symbolic levels of description; they are discrete andrelatively sparse with respect o the original contour, but carrywith them relevant quantitative information.
Parsing of events iscarried out top down, with the aid of rules for matching thetonal elements to event sequences.
Tonal elements may accountfor variable numbers of events, and different analyses of anambiguous contour may divide up the event stream in differentways.
Steps in the analysis of an example F0 contour are shownin Figure 5.3.1 PveprocessingThe input to the system is an FO contour computed by the GoldRabiner algorithm (Gold and Rabiner, 1969).
Two difficultieswith this input make it unsuitable for immediate prosodicanalysis.
First, the pitch tracker in some cases returns valueswhich are related to the true values by an integer multiplier ordivisor.
These stray values are fatal to any prosodic analysis ifthey survive in the input to the smoothing of the contour.
Thisproblem is addressed by imposing continuity constraints on theF0 contour.
When a stray value is located, an attempt o find amultiplier or divisor which will bring it into line is made, and ifthis attempt fails, the stray value is deleted.
In our experience,such continuity constraints are necessary to eliminate sporadicerrors; without them, no amount of parameter tweaking suffices.A second problem arises because the speech segments perturbthe F0 contour; here, consonantal effects are of particularconcern.
There are no FO values during voiceless segments.Glottal stops and voiced obstruents depress the F0 on both sides.In addition, voiceless obstruents raise the F0 at the beginning ofa following vowel.
Because of these effects, a attempt was madeca}0 1 sec.
I I.,.,zAre I e gumes  a good source of v i tamins(b) MaxMax Mln tI PAin Min Plateau yk~ J \ J \ JL% L ~ H H%\ JL% k ~ H ~ H H%Figure 5: Panel A shows an unprocessed F0 contour.
Theplacement of lettering indicates roughly the alignment of tuneand text.
Parts of the F0 contour which survive the continuityconstraints and the clipping are drawn with a heavier line.Panel B shows the connected and smoothed F0 contour, togetherwith its event characterization.
The two transcriptions of thecontour are shown underneath.
The alignment of tonal elementsindicates what events each covers.88to remove F0 values in the immediate vicinity of obstruents.
Anadapted version of the Fleck and Liberman (1982) syllable peakfinder controlled this clipping.
Our modification worked outwardfrom the sy!labic peaks to find sonorant regions, and thenretained the FO values found there.
In Figure 5A, the portionsof the F0 contour remaining after this procedure are indicatedby a heavier line.
The retained portions of the contour areconnected by linear interpolation.
Following Hildreth and Marr'swork on vision, the connected contour is smoothed byconvolution with a Gaussian in order to permit analysis of thederivatives.
The smoothed contour for the example is shown inFigure 5B.3.2 SchematizationEvents in the contour are found by analysis of the first andsecond derivatives.
The events of ultimate interest are maxima,minima, plateaus, and points of inflection.
Roughly speaking,peaks correspond to H tones, some valleys are L tones, andpoints of inflection can arise through downstep, upstep, or adisparity in prominence between adjacent H accents.
Plateaus,or level parts of the contour, can arise from tone spreading orfrom a sequence of two like tones.
Events are implemented asstructures which store quantitative information, such as location,F0 value, and derivative values.Maxima and minima can be located as zeroes in the firstderivative.
Those which exhibit insufficient contrast with theirlocal environment are suppressed; in regions of little change,such as that covered by the phrase accent in Figure 3A, thisthreshholding prevents minor fluctuations from being treated asprosodic.
Plateaus are significant stretches of the contour whichare as good as level.
A plateau is created from a sequence of lowcontrast maxima and minima, or from a very broad peak orvalley.
In either case, the boundaries of the plateau are markedwith events, whose type is relevant o the ultimate tonal analysis.These events are not located at absolute maxima or minima,which in nearly level stretches may fall a fair distance frompoints of prosodic significance.
Instead, they are pushed outwardto a near-maximum, or a near-minimum.
The event locations inFigure 5B reflect this adjustment.
Minima in the absolute slope,(which form a subset of zero crossings in the second derivative)are retained as points of inflection if they contrast sufficiently inslope with the slope maxima on either side.
In some cases, suchpoints were engendered by smoothing from places where theoriginal contour had a shelf.
In many others, however, theshoulder in the original contour is a slope minimum, although amore prototypical realization of the same prosodic pattern wouldhave a shell  Presumably, this fact is due to the low passcharacteristics of the articulatory system itself.3.3 ParsingTonal analysis of the event stream is carried out by a topdownnondeterministic finite state parser, assisted by a set ofverification rules.
The grammar is a close relative of thetransition network in Figure 1.
(There is no effort to makedistinctions which would require independent information aboutstress location, and provision is made for the case where thephrase accent and boundary tone collapse phonetically,) Theverification rules relate tonal elements to sequences of events inthe F0 contour.
As each tonal element is hypothesized, it ischecked against the event stream to see whether it plausiblyextends the analysis hypothesized so far.
The integration ofsuccessful ocal hypotheses into complete analyses is handledconventionally (see Woods 1973).The ontology of the verification rules is based on ourunderstanding of the phonetic realization rules for tonalelements.
Each rule characterizes the realization of a particularelement or class of elements, given the immediate left context.Wider contexts are unnecessary, because the realization rulesare claimed to be local.
Correct management of chainedcomputations, such as iterative downsteps, falls outautomatically from the control structure.
The verification rulesrefer both to the event types (e.g.
"maximum', "inflection,') andto values of a small vocabulary of predicates describingquantitative characteristics.
The present system has fivepredicates, though a more detailed accounting of the F0 contourwould require a few more.
One returns a verdict on whether anevent is in the correct relation to a preceding event to beconsidered downstepped.
Another determines whether aminimum might be explained by a non-monotonic F0 transition,like that pointed out in Figure I.
In general, relations betweencrucial points are considered, rather than their absolute values.Even for a single speaker, absolute values are not very relevantto melodic analysis, because of expressive variation in pitchrange.
Our experiments showed that local relations, when statedcorrectly, are much more stable.Timing differences result in multiple realizations for some tonalsequences.
For example, the L* H H% sequence in Figure 5Acomes out as a rise--plateau--rise.
If the same sequence werecompressed onto less segmental material, one would see a rise--inflection--rise, or even a single large rise.
For this reason, therules OR several ways of accepting a given tonal hypothesis.
Asjust indicated, these can involve different numbers of events.The transcription under figure 5B indicates the two analysesreturned by the system.
Note that they differ in the totalnumber of tonal elements, and in the number of events coveredby the H phrase accent.
The first analysis correctly reflects thespeaker's intention.
The second is consistent with the shape ofthe F0 contour, but would require a different phrasal stresspattern.
Thus the location of the phrasal stress cannot beuniquely recovered from the F0 contour, although analysis of theF0 does constrain the possibilities.4.
Discussion and conclusions4.1 Intellectual antecedentsThe work described here has been greatly influenced by thework of Marr and his collaborators on vision.
Theschematization of the F0 contour has a family resemblance totheir primal sketch, and I follow their suggestion that analysis ofthe derivatives, i~ a useful step in making such a schematization.Lea (1979) argues that stressed syllables and phrase boundariescan be located by setting a threshhold on FO changes.
Thisprocedure uses no representation of different melodic types,which are the main object of interest here.
Its assumptions arecommonly met, but break down in many perfectly well-formedEnglish intonation patterns.Vires et al (1977) use F0 in French to screen lexicalhypotheses, by placing restrictions on the location of wordboundaries.
This procedure is motivated by the observation thatthe FO contour constrains but does not uniquely determine theboundary locations.
In English, F0 does not mark wordboundaries, but there are somewhat comparable situations inwhich it constrains but does not determine an analysis of howthe utterance is organized.
However, the English prosodic89system is much more complex than that of French, and so animplementation f this idea is accordingly more dii~cult.4.2 Segmentation a d labellingThe ~pproach to segmentation used here contrasts trongly withthat used in the past in phonemic analysis.
Whereas the HWIMsystem, for example, proposed segmental boundaries bottom up(Woods et al, 1976), the system described here neverestablishes boundaries.
For example, there is no point on the risebetween a L* and a H* which is ever designated as theboundary between the two pitch accents.
Whereas phoneticsegments ordinarily carry only categorical information, theevents found here are hybrids, with both categorical andquantitative !nformation.
A kind of soft segmentation comesout, in the sense that a particular tonal element accounts forsome particular sequer~ce of events.
Study of ambiguouscontours indicates that this grouping of events cannot be carriedout separately from labelling.
Thus, there is no stage of analysiswhere the contour is segmented, even in this soft sense, but notlabelled.It is not hard to find examples uggesting that the approachtaken here is also relevant for phonemic analysis.
Consider theword "joy", shown in Figure 6.
Here, the second formant failsfrom the palatal locus to a back vowel position, and then risesagain for the off-glide.
A different transcription involving twosyllables might also be hypothesized; the second formant couldbe falling through a rather nondistinct vowel into a vocalized/ I / ,  and then rising for a front vowel.
Thus, we can onlyestablish the correct segment count for this word by evaluatingthe hypothesis of a medial /1/.
Even having clone so, there is noargument for boundary locations.
The multiple pass strategyused in the HW!M system appears to have been aimed at suchproblems, but ~loes not really get at their root.4.3 ProblemsA number of defects in the current implementation have becomeapparent.
In the example, the amount of clipping and smoothingneeded to suppress egmental effects enough for parsing resultsin poor time alignment of the second transcription.
The H* inthis analysis is assigned to "source', whereas the researcherlooking at the raw F0 contour would be inclined to put it on"gumes'.
In general, curves which are too smooth may still beL77k..Lk: i -k0Figure 6: A spectrogram of the word "joy", cut out of thesentence "We find joy in the simplest things."
The example istaken from Zue et al (1982).insufficiently smooth to parse.
An alternatwe 2rpproacn basea onHildreth's suggestions about integration of different scalechannels in vision was also investigated.
(Hildreth, 1980.)
Mostof the obstacles he mentions were actually encountered, and noway was found to surmount hem.
Thus, I view the separationof segmental and prosodic effects on F0 as an open problem.Adding verification rules for segmental effects appears to be themost promising course.Two classes of extraneous analyses generated by the systemmerit discussion.
Some analyses, such as the second in Figure 5,violate the stress pattern.
These are of interest, because theyinform us about how much F0 by itself constrains theinterpretation of stress.
A second group, namely analyses whichhave too many tonal elements for the syllable count, is of lessinterest.
A future implementation should eliminate these byreferring to syllable peak locations.AcknowledgementsI would like to thank Mitch Marcus and Dave Shipman forhelpful discussions.ReferencesFleck, M. and M. Y. Liberman (1982).
"Test of an automaticsyllable peak finder," J. Acoust.
Soc.
Am.
72, Suppl.
1 $78.Gold, B. and L. Rabiner (1969).
"Parallel ProcessingTechniques for Estimating Pitch Periods of Speech in the TimeDomain."
J. Acoust.
Soc.
Am.
46, 442-448.Hildreth, E. (1980).
"Implementation of a Theory of EdgeDetection," Artificial lntetligience Laboratory Report AI-TR-579, MIT.Lea, W. A.
(1979).
"Prosodic Aids to Speech Recognition."
inW.
A. Lea, ed.
Trends in Speech Recognition.
Prentice Hall,Englewood Cliffs N.J. 166-205.Liberman, M. Y. and J. Pierrehumbert (forthcoming in 1983).
"Intonational nvariance under Changes in Pitch Range andLength."
Currently available as a Bell Labs TechnicalMemorandum.Marr, D. (1982).
Vision.
W. H. Freeman and Co., SanFrancisco.Pierrehumbert, J.
(1980).
"The Phonology and Phonetics ofEnglish Intonation."
PhD dissertation, MIT.
(forthcoming fromMIT Press).Pierrehumbert, ,I.
(1981).
"Synthesizing intonation."
J. Acoust.Soc.
Am.
70, 985-995.Vires, R., C. Le Corre, G. Mercier.
and J Vaissiere (1977).
"Utilisation, pour la reconnaissance de la parole continue, demarqueurs prosodiques extraits de la frequence du fondamental.
"7iemes Journees d'Etudes sur la Parole, Groupement desAcousticiens de Langue Francais, 353-363.Woods, W.A.
(1973).
"An Experimental Parsing System forTransition Network Grammars."
in R. Rustin, ed., NaturalLanguage Processing.
Algorithmics Press, Inc., New York.Woods, W.A, M. Bates, G. Brown, B. Bruce, C. Cook, J.Klovstad, J. Makhoul, B. Nash-Webber, R. Schwartz, J. Wolf,and V. Zue (1976).
"Speech Understanding Systems FinalReport Volume II."
BBN Report No.
3438.Zue, V., F. Chen, and L. Lamel (1982).
Speech SpectrogramReading: Special Summer Course.
MIT.90
