TRANSFORMING ENGLISH INTERFACES TO OTHER NATURAL LANGUAGES:AN EXPERIMENT WITH PORTUGUESEGABRIEL PEREIRA LOPES (1)Departamento de Matem~tica?
Instituto Superior de AgronomiaTapada da Ajuda - 1399 Lisboa Codex, PortugalABSTRACTNowadays i t  is common the construction ofEnglish understanding systems (interfaces) that soo-ner or later one has to re-use, adapting and conve~ting them to other natural languages.
This is not aneasy task and in many cases the arisen problems arequite complex.
In this paper an experiment hat wasaccomplished for Portuguese language is reportedand some conclusions are expl ic itely stated.
A knowledge information processing system, known as SSIPA,with natural language comprehension capabilitiesthat interacts with users in Portuguese through aPortuguese interface, LUSO, was bui l t .
Logic was u-sed as a mental aid and as a practical tool.I.
INTRODUCTIONThe CHAT-80 program for English (Warren &Pereira, 1981; Pereira, 1983) was transformed and adapted to Portuguese.
Logic Programming as a mentalaid, and Prolog (Coelho, 1983; Clocksin & Melish ,1981) and Extraposition Grammars (Pereira, 1983) aspractical tools, were adopted to implement a natu-ral language interface for Portuguese.
The interfa-ce here reported, called LUSO, was then coupled toa knowledge base for geography, an extension of theCHAT-80 knowledge base.
In an ulter ior  experiment ,LUSO dictionary was augmented with new vocabularyand LUSO was coupled to other modules that conside-rably augmented the expertise capabilities of SSIPA(Sistema Simulador de um Interlocutor Portugu~s Au-tom~tico (2)).SSIPA is a complex knowledge information processingsystem with natural language comprehension and syn-thesis capabilitites that interacts with users inPortuguese due to the l inguist ic knowledge that islogically organized and codified in the above men-tioned SSIPA's interface ca\]led LUSO.After the f i r s tstep of its development, SSIPA was able to answer(1) Present Adress: Centro de Inform~tica, Laborat5rio Nacional de Engenharia Civ i l ,  lOl, Av.
do Bra=s i l ,  1799 Lisboa Codex, Portugal(2) Simulating System of a Portuguese Automatic In-terlocutor.questions about geography and could agree or disa-gree with the opinions stated by the users abouti ts geographical knowledge.
After the second stepof its development SSIPA became more powerful andintel l igent because i t  could also perform actionsthat tradit ional ly were attributes of computer mo-nitors (Lopes & Viccari, 1984).As a matter of fact,SSIPA can create and delete f i les ,  f i l l  them,change their names, l i s t  and change their, contents;SSIPA receives, keeps and send messaqesanswers questions not only about geography butalso about the knowledge SSIPA represents; i t  a -grees or disagrees with the opinions stated byusersabout the Knowledg~ context behind dialogues,reacts when users try to cheat i t  but, as a rule,SSIPA behaves as a helpful, deligent and cooperat~ve interlocutor wi l l ing to serve human users, changing from one to another topic of conversation anddeveloping intel l igent c lar i f icat ion dialogues (Lopes, 1984).
All these features require a very powerful Portuguese language interface whosemain moron~-syntact ic  features are pointed out in this pa-per.2.
FORMALIZATION OF NATURALLANGUAGE CONSTRUCTSNatural language are complex structuredsystems d i f f i cu l t  to formalize.
Formalization canbe understood as a step by step construction of atheory to achieve , as an ultimate goal, an axiomat ic  definit ion of natural language constructs.
I fthis descriptive theory can also function as thel inguist ic  structured knowledge necessary to simu-late a human native using his mother language then,the formalization effort has acquired and gained anew insight.
While representing a natural languagesystem, i t  may represent a native competence abouthis mother language and, simultaneously, i t  mayperform the role of a native using that competence.This dual unity, incorporatingadescription f l inguistic knowledge and incorporating the same l in  -guistic knowledge ready to be active, is central tothis work.This unification in the same unit of twoapparently conflicting and contraditory aspects ofnatural languages is possible due to the usage oflogic as a mental and a practical tool.
SSIPA encapsulates both views of natural language.Practice demonstrates that, for the construction of complex models i t  is better to beginwith simple model versions to represent the systemone intends to simulate.
This practical conclusion8seems reasonable because knowledge about a systemand about its representation keeps on augmenting asfar as, to achieve the validation of the simula -ting model, empirical investigation progresses(Klir,1975).
However one must be aware that while Know -ledge about a real system keeps on growing so dothe complexitythat one can unwill ingly introduce into the model.
Having all this in mind, i f  we wantto formalize l inguist ic knowledge about natural fanguage we must be prepared to use powerful formal-languages prone to description of complex systemsand able to be used as programming languages.
Herei t  is subsumed that computers are tools adapted todeal with complexity, augmenting considerably hu-man capabilities to handle highly complex representational systems.3.
LUSOLUSO input subsystem is a device thattransforms a sequence of words morfologically, syntactical ly and semantically significant into a Lo-gical Form.
A Logical Form is here understood as asequence of predicates, envelopes for knowledgetransportation from users to SSIPA central proces-sing unit (the EVENT DRIVER) and from this unit tousers.
These predicates generalize and augment hepotencialities of Pereira's equivalent predicates,(Pereira, 1983).
They can also be compared with thelexical functions of Bresnam (Ig81).
However wedon't use case classification.
In Portuguese, pre-positions associated to noun semanticfeatures eemto be enough to identify and differentiate mea-nings of verbal, noun, adjectival and even prepos~tional form functions (Lopes, 1984).LUSO is a natural language interface thatconcentrates l inguist ic expert knowledge about Pottuguese language.LUSO input subsystem works sequentially.In a f i r s t  step i t  performs the syntactical analy-sis of an input Portuguese sequence of words.
De-pending on the task LUSO has been commited to per-form, a lexical ly f i l l ed  syntagmatic marker or afai lure is the result of LUSO eagerness to provethe above mentioned input sequence of words as asyntactically correct yes-no question, wh-question,imperative or declarative sentence, or as a syntact ica l ly  correct noun phrase or prepositional phra Zse.
When a lexical ly f i l l ed  syntagmatic marker isobtained, i t  is translated to a logical form.
Fi-nally this form is planned and simplified accor -ding to the methodology described by Pereira (1983)and Warren (1981).The design of LUSO input subsystem re -flects the following hypothesis:?
morphological analysis of Portugueseconstructs is syntactically driven;?
l inguist ic semantic analysis of Portu-guese constructs is lexical ly (functionally) driven (in a quasi-bresnamian,sense (Bresnam, 1981; Pereira, 1983;Lopes, 1984));?
cognitive semantic analysis of Portu -guese constructs depends on syntacti -cal and l inguist ic  semantic analysispreviously achieved for Portuguese constructs.This suggests SSIPA as a formal systemthat already theorizes some aspects of Portugueselanguage while LUSO specificates the form of for-mal functions whose cognitive content and formal aptitude for transforming system state are defined atthe semantic level of the formal system.To complete the formal role wewanted SS !PA to play, LUSO output subsystem synthesizes Por-tuguese noun phrases, prepositional phrases or se Dtences whenever i t  receives correspondent requeststo output such constructs.
To achieve that goal LUSO transforms any previously lexical ly f i l l ed  syn-tagmatic marker into a sequence of Portuguesewordsin its f inal forms, ready to be sent to a user.4.
MORPHO-SYNTACTICAL ANALYSIS AND SYNTHE -SIS OF PORTUGUESE LANGUAGE CONSTRUCTSThe morpho-syntactical analysis of Portuguese language constructs is application indepen -dent and is based on the various concepts develo-ped by Chomsky and followers in the framework ofthe Extended Standard Theory of Generative Grammar(Chomsky, 1980, 1981a, 1981b; Rouveret, 1983 andmany others)?
As i t  was already mentioned in thispaper, one of the crucial hypothesis behind LUSO'sdesign reflects the idea that morphological analy-sis of Portuguese constructs is syntactically dri-ven.
This means that when the syntactical parseriswaiting for a specific grammatical category, i t  takes the next word to be analysed from the input sequence of words and searches the dictionary for thatcategory, trying to find the input word.
I f  the iput word does not match any dictionary entry forthat particular category, all possible input wordendings, one after another, starting from the lon-gest towards ths shortest, are matched against theending entries for that category unti l  a success -ful match wi l l  occur.
I f  such a match does not succeed, this means that the input word does not be-long to the foreseen grammatical category.
As a co)sequence, a fai lure occurs and the Prolog mecha -nism for backtracking is automatically activated.When one of the input word possible endings mat -ches an ending entry for the syntactically predic-ted category, a basic form for the input word iscoined.
The newly coined basic form for that in -put word is then checked against the subdictionaryentries for the foreseen grammatical category.A pr~cess of successes and/or failures proceeds.
A syn-tagmatic marker for each input Portuguese constructis f i l l ed  with word basic forms and correspon -dingsyntactic features information (person, genderand number for noun phrases; tense, mode, aspect ,voice and negation for verbs; etc.).
The basic formfora-verb is its in f in i t i ve  form; for a nouhisitssingular form; for a pronoun, art icle or adjectiveis its singular masculine form.The morphological synthesis of Portugue-se constructs is syntactically driven.
This meansthat, departing from a syntagmatic marker lexical-lp f i l led  with basic forms of Portuguese words, u-sing the syntactic features that are expl ic i te l lyconsidered into that marker, LUSO output subsystemcoines the corresponding sequence of Portuguesewords in its final output form ready to be sent tothe user with whom the system is interacting.
Forthis purpose most of the rules that were designedto consult LUSO's dictionary were reordered.
Depa~ting from basic forms of words, their final formsare obtained by a process nearly inverse of theprocess used for input.Extraposition grammars, the formalism d eveloped by Pereira (1983), were used to implementthe analyser and the synthesizer for Portuguese.Itis worth tel l ing that this formalism proved to bequite adequate for the description of move-alpha rule (Chomsky, IgBlb) in complex syntactical environments such as those that frequently occur in Portuguese.
As a matter of fact phrase constituents or-der in Portuguese sentences is quite free.
LUSO takes into account the same type of problems handledby CHAT-80 program.
Additionally, i t  analysis syn-tactical structures involving prepositional phra -ses and verb headed sentences where there is reor-dering of noun phrase constituents inside those se~tences due to the heading process.
Problems rela-ted to common ouns followed by the proper nounsthey refer, in the context where they appear,is a !so handled.5.
CONCLUSIONSI t  is wiser to concentrate efforts to o 0tain more and more powerful morpho-syntactic anal~sets, l inguistic semantic analysers and cognitive,semantic interpreters for the natural language weare working in.
Constructing replicants of application directed interfaces starting from scratch isunproductive.
Constructing more and more powerfulinterfaces, as the number of applications natural-ly grows, the natural language analyser, planned tobe application independent, is always under impro-vement because i t  is always incorporating more andmore linguistic knowledge.
At the same time one isfreed from consideration of morphological and syn-tactic basic problems and so one can shift  his at-tention to more subtle problems related to tense ,modality and others and one can concentrate hismind to the way how concepts related to words aredefined.
As a consequence, the implementing taskcan be organized by areas of specialization.When one has to construct an interfacefor a specific language i t  is reasonable to lookfor interfaces implemented for other languages wh ere the faced syntactical and morphological prob -lems have a similar degree of complexity.
Havingthis in mind, Portuguese language seriously compe-tes with English because i t  rises quite importantsyntactic, semantic and pragmatic problems similarto problems risen by lat in,  slavonic and germaniclanguages.6.
AKNOWLEDGEMENTSI would like to thank Helder Coelho forhis insightful comments and suggestions throughoutthis research and the writing of this paper.7 REFERENCESBRESNAM, J., "The passive in lexical theory", Occasional Paper 7, The Center for Cognitive ScienceMIT, 1981.CHOMSKY, N., 'bn binding", Linguistic Inquiry,vol.I I ,  n9 l ,  1-46, 1980.CHOMSKY, N., "Lectures on government and binding",Foris Publications, Dordrecht, Holland, I981a.CHOMSKY, N., "On the representation of form andfunction", The Linguistic Review, vol.
l ,  n9 l ,30-40, 1981a.COELHO, H., "The art of knowledge ngineering withProlog", INFOLOG PROJ, Faculdade de Ci~ncias, U-nivers~dade Cl~ssica de Lisboa, 1983.KLIR, G., "On the representationof act ivity arrays~Int.
J.
General Systems, 2, 149-168, 1975LOPES, G., "Implementing dialogues in a knowledgeinformation system", paper submited to Interna -tional Workshop on Natural Language Understanding and Logic Programming, Rennes, France, 1984.LOPES, G. and VICCARI, R., "An intell igent monitorinteracting in Portuguese language", short paperaccepted for ECAI-84, Pisa.PEREIRA, F., "Logic for natural language analysis~Technical Note 275, SRI International, 1983.ROUVERET, A., unpublished lectures lectured in Lisbon, 1983.WARREN, D., "Efficient processing of interactive r elational data base queries expressed in logic" ,Dept.
of Ar t i f i c ia l  Intelligence, Univ.
of Edin-burgh, 1981.WARREN, D. and PEREIRA, F., "An eff icient easil lyadaptable system for interpreting natural language queries", DAI research paper nQ 155, Univ.
ofEdinburgh, 1981.10
