NAtural Language driven Image GenerationGiovanni Adorni, Mauro Di Manzo and Fausto GiunchiglisDepartment of Communication, Computer and System SciencesUniversity of GenoaVia Opera Pia i\] A - 16145 Genoa - ItalyABSTRACTIn this paper the experience made through thedevelopment of a NAtural Language driven ImageGeneration is discussed.
This system is able toimagine a static scene described by means of asequence of simple phrases.
In particular, a theoryfor equilibrium and support will be outlinedtogether with the problem of object positioning.i.
IntrOductionA challenging application of the AItechniques is the generation of 2D projections of3D scenes starting from a possibly unformalizedinput, as a natural language description.
Apartfrom the practically unlimited simulationcapabilities that a tool of this kind could givepeople working in the show business, a bettermodeling of the involved cognitive processes isimportant not only from the point of view of storyunderstanding (Wa8Oa,WaS\]a), but also for a moreeffective approach to a number of AI relatedproblems, as, for instance, vision or robotplanning (So76a).
In this paper we discuss some ofthe ideas on which is based a NAtural Languagedriven Image Generation (NALIG from here on) whichhas been developed for experimental purposes at theUniversity of Genoa.
This system is currently ableto reason about static scenes described by means ofa set of simple phrases of the form: csubject~~preposition~ cobject, \[ creference~ \] (*).The understanding process in NALIG flowsthrough several steps (distinguishable only from alogic point of view), which perform objectinstantiation, relation inheritance, translation ofthe surface expression into unambiguous primitives,(*) NALIG has been developed for the Italianlanguage; the prepositions it can presently analyzeare: su, sopra, sotto, a destra, a sinistra, vici-no, davanti, dietro, in.
A second deeply revisedrelease is currently under design.This work has been supported by the Italian Depart-ment of Education under Grant M.P.I.-27430.consistency checking, object positioning and so on,up to the drawing of the "imagined" scene on ascreen.
A general overview of NALIG is given in thepaper, which however is mainly concerned with therole of common sense physical reasoning inconsistency checking and object instantiation.Qualitative reasoning about physical processes is apromising tool which is exciting the interest of anincreasing number of A.I.
researches(Fo83a,Fo83b,Fo83c) , (Ha78a,Ha79a) , (K179a,K183a).It plays a central role in the scene descriptionunderstanding process for several reasons:i. naive physics, following Hayes definition(Ha78a), is an attempt to represent the commonsense knowledge that people have about thephysical world.
Sharing this knowledge betweenthe speaker and the listener (the A.I.
system,in our case) is the only feasible way to letthe second make realistic hypotheses about theassumptions underlying the speaker utterances;ii.
it allows to reach conclusions about problemsfor which very little information is availableand which consequently are hard to formalizeusing quantitative models;iii.
qualitative reasoning can be much moreeffective to reach approximate conclusionswhich are sufficient in everyday life.
Itallows to build a hierarchy of models in orderto use every time the minimal requested amountof information, and avoid to computeunnecessary details.Within the framework of naive physics, most ofthe current literature is devoted to dynamicprocesses.
As far as we are concerned with thedescription of static scenes, other concepts arerelevant as equilibrium, support, structuralrobustness, containment and so on.
With fewexceptions (Ha78a), qualitative theories to addressthese problems are not yet available even if someuseful suggestions to approach statics can be foundin (By8Oa).
In this paper, a theory forequilibrium and support will be outlined.
Animportant aspect of the scene descriptionunderstanding process is that some amount of495qualitative analysis can never be avoided, since awell defined position must be completed for everyobject in order to draw the image of the scene on ascreen.
This computation must not result in anoverspecification that masks the degree offuzziness which is intrinsic in object positions(Wa79s), in order to avoid to unnecessarilyconstrain all the following reasoning activities.The last section of the paper will be devoted tothe object positioning problem.2.
Object axonomy and spatial primitivesSpatial prepositions in natural language areoften ambiguous, and each one may convey severaldifferent meanings (Bo79a,He80a).
Therefore, thefirst step is to disambiguate descriptions throughthe definition of a proper number of "primitiverelationships.The selection of the primitive relationrepresenting the meaning of the input phrase isbased mainly, but not only, on a taxonomy of theinvolved objects, where they are classifieddepending on attributes which, in turn, depend onthe actual spatial preposition.
An example may begiven by the rules to select the relationH SUPPORT(A,B) (that is A is horizontally supportedby B) from the phrase "A on B".This meaning is chosen by default when someconditions are satisfied.
First of all, A must notbe l~g to that special category of objects which,when properly used, are flying, as aircrafts,unless B is an object expressly devoted to supportthem in some special case: so, "the airplane on therunway" is likely to be imagined touching theground, while for the "airplane on the desert" aflying stats is probably inferred (of course, theauthors cannot exclude that NALIG default reasoningis biased by their personal preferences).FLYING(A) and REPOSITORY(A,B) predicates are usedto formalize these facts.
To be able to givehorizontal support, B must have a free uppersurface ((FREETOP(B)), walls or ceilings or closeddoors in an indoor view do not belong to thiscategory.
Geographic objects (GEO(X)) impose aspecial care: "the mountains on the lake" cannot beinterpreted as the lake supporting the mountainsand even if only B is a geographic object, but Acan fly, physical contact seems not to be the mostcommon inference ("the birds on the garden").Hence, a first tentative rule is the following (theactual rule is much more complex):not GEO(A) and not(FLYING(A) andnot REPOSITORY(A,B)) and((FREETOP(B) and not GEO(B)) or(GEO(B) and not CANFLY(A)))===~, H SUPPORT(A,B)A complete discussion of NALIG's taxonomy ofobjects is in (Bo83a).
Both the set of primitivesand the set of attributes have been defined on thebasis of empirical evidence, through the analysisof some thousands of sample phrases.
Besides thefact that NALIG works, there are specific reasonsto accept the current taxonomy, and it is likelythat further experience will suggest modifications;however, most of knowledge in NALIG is descriptive,and the intrinsic flexibility of an expert systemapproach an easy stepwise refinement.The values of some predicates are simplyattempts to summarize large amounts of specifiedknowledge.
For example, CANFLY(X) is true forbirds, but FLYING(X) is not; the last predicate isreserved for airplanes and similar objects.
This isa simple trick to say that, in common experience,airplanes can be supported by a very limited set ofobjects, as runways, aircraft carrier ships and soon, while birds can stay almost everywhere and tolist all possible places is too space wasting.However, most of them are directly related togeometrical or physical properties of obje~ts, totheir common uses in a given environment and so on,and should be always referred to underlyingspecific theor ies.
For instance, a number offeatures are clearly related to a description ofspace which is largely based on the Hayes' model todevelop a theory for the containment of liquids(Ha78a).
Within this model some predicates, asINSIDE(O), can be evaluated by means of a deepergeometric modeling module, which uses a generalizedcone approach to maintain a more detaileddescription of the structures of objects(Ad82a,Ad83a,Ad83b).
Some of these theories arecurrently under development (a naive approach tostatics will be outlined in the following), someothers are still beyond the horizon; nevertheless,for experimental purposes, unavailablesophisticated theories can be substituted by roughapproximations or even by fixed valued predicateswith only s graceful degradation of reasoningcapabilities.Taxonomical rules generate hypotheses aboutthe most likely spatial primitive, but thesehypotheses must be checked for consistency, usingknowledge about physical processes (section 4) orabout constraints imposed by the previousallocation of other objects (section 5).
Moreoverthere are other sources of primitive relationsbesides the input phrase.
One of the most importantsources is given by a set of rules which allow toinfer unmentioned objects; they are briefly496outlined in the next section.
Other relations maybe inferred as side-effects of consistency checkingand positioning activities.the branch and the roof becomes unlikely.
A deeperdiscussion of these inference rules is presented in(Ad83c).3.
Ob jec t  i ns tant ia t ionOften a natural language description givesonly some details about the scene, but many otherobjects and relations must be inferred to satisfythe consistency requirements.
An example is thephrase "a branch on the roof" which is probablyinterpreted as "a tree near the house having abranch on the roof"."
Therefore a set of rules hasbeen defined in NALIG to instantiate unmentionedobjects and infer the relations holding betweenthem.Some of these rules are based on knowledgeabout the structure of objects, so that, underproper conditions, the whole can be inferred when apart is mentioned.
Other rules take into accountstate conditions, as the fact that a living fishneed water all around, or containment constraints,as the fact that water is spread on a plane surfaceunless it is put into a suitable container.
Theinferred objects may inherit spatial relations fromthose explicitly mentioned; in such a case relationreplacement rules are needed.
A simple example isthe following.
Geographic objects containingwater, as a lake, can be said to support something(the boat on the lake), but the true relation holdsbetween the supported object end the water; thisfact must be pointed out because it is relevant forconsistency conditions.
Therefore a replacementrule is :ON(A,B) and GEO(B) and OPENCONTAINER(B) andnot GEO(A) and not (FLYING(A) andnot REPOSITORY(A,B)) and not CANFLY(A)==~ ON(A,water) and CONTAINED(water,B)where ON(X,Y) represents the phrase to be analyzed;OPENCONTAINER (X) has the same formal meaningdefined by Hayes (Ha78a) and describes a containerwith an open top.When relation inheritance does not apply,relative positions between known and inferredobjects must be deduced from knowledge about theirstructures and typical positions.
For instance thePARTOF instantiation rule, triggered by the phrase"the branch on the rool TM to infer a tree and ahouse, does not use the relation inheritance (thetree is not on the house), but knowledge abouttheir typical positions (both objects are usuallyon the ground with assumed standard axisorientations) or structural constraints, as thehouse cannot be too high and the tree too far fromthe house, otherwise the stated relation between4.
Co~is tency  checking and qua l i ta t ivereas~d~gObjects  which do not  f l y  must  be suppor ted  byother objects.
This seemingly trivialinterpretation of the law of gravity plays a basicrole when we check the consistency of a set ofgiven or assumed spatial relationships; no objectis properly placed in the imagined scene if it isnot possible to relate it, possibly through a chainof other supporting objects, to one which has therole of "ground" in the assumed environment (forinstance floor, ceiling and interior surfaces ofwalls in an indoor view).
The need of justifyingthis way all object positions may have effects onobject instantiation, as in the phrase "the book onthe pencil".
Since the pencil cannot give fullsupport to the book another object must be assumed,which supports the pencil and, at least partially,the book; both objects could be placed directly onthe floor, but default knowledge about the typicalpositions that books and pencils may have in commonwill probably iced to the instantiation of thetable as the most likely supporting object, in turnsupported by the floor.The supporting laws may also give guidance tothe positioning steps, as in the phrase "the car onthe shell TM where, if there are reasons to rejectthe hypothesis that the car is a toy, then it isunlikely to have the shelf in its default position,that is "on the wall"."""~/.
{" l ...,,~ \[?\]Wal l  WO|Ifig.
l:assumed and default shelf structuresAnother example of reasoning based onsupporting rules is given by assumptions about thestructure of objects, in those cases in which anumber of alternatives is known.
For instance, ifwe know that "a shelf on the wall" must support aheavy load of books, we probably assume thestructure of fig.la, even if fig.lb represents thedefault choice.To reason about these facts we need a strategyto find the equilibrium positions of an object or apattern of supports, if such positions exist,taking into account specific characteristics of theinvolved objects.
This strategy must be based, as497far as possible, on qualitative rules, to avoidunnecessary calculations in simple and common casesand to handle ill-defined situations; for instance,rules to grasp objects, as birds, are differentfrom those helding for not grasping ones, asbottles, and nearly all situations in which birdsare involved can be solved without any exactknowledge about their weight distributions,grasping strength and so on.An example of these rules, which we call"naive statics" is given in the following.
Let usconsider a simple case in which an object A issupported by another object B; the supported objecthas one or more plane faces that can be used asbases.
If a face f is a base face for A(BASE(f,A)), it is possible to find the point e,which is the projection of the barlcenter of A onthe plane containing f along its normal.
It israther intuitive that a plane horizontal surface isa stable support for A if the area of physicalcontact includes e and if this area is long andwide enough, in comparison to the dimensions of A,and its height in particular.
Hence a minimumequilibrium area (M_E_AREA(a,f)) can be defined foreach BASE f of A (this in turn imposes someconstraints on the minimal dimensions of f).The upper surface of B may be of any shape.
Asupport is a convex region of the upper surface ofB; it may coincide with the whole upper surface ofB, as it happens with a table top, or with alimited subset of it, as a piece of the upper edgeof the back of a chair.
In this example we willconsider only supports with a plane horizontal top,possibly shrinking to a line or a point; if s issuch a part of B, it will be described by thepredicate P_SUPP(s,B).Let's consider now an object A, with a regularbase f, lying on one or more supports whose uppersurfaces belong to the same plane.
For eachposition of A there is a pattern of possiblydisconnected areas obtained from the intersectionof f with the top surfaces of the supports.
Let bea the minimal convex plane figure which include allthese areas; a will be referred to as a supportingarea (S_AREA(a)).
A rather intuitive definition ofequilibrium area is that A is stable in thatposition if its M_E_AREA(a,f) is contained in thesupporting area.
A further condition is that afree space V around the supports must exist, largeenough to contain A; this space can be defined bythe smallest convex volume Va enveloping A which ispart of the description of A itself.
Thereforeconditions of stable lying can be formulated asfollows:BASE(f,A) and LAY(A,B) andFREE(V) and ENVELOP(Va,A) and CONTAINED(Va,V)=9STABLE_H_SUPPORT(A,B)where:LAY(A,B)E P_SUPP(sI,B) and.., and P_SUPP(sn,B)and S_AREA(a) and M_E_AREA(e,f) andCONTAINED(e,a)The evaluation of the supporting area (i.e.
tofind an area a for which its predicate S_AREA(a) istrue) may be trivial in some cases and may requiresophisticated positioning strategies in othercases.
The most trivial case is given by a singlesupport S, in this case we have S_AREA(TOP(S)),which means that the supporting area a coincideswith the top surface of S.\[.\]ifig.2: radial simmetryAnother simple but interesting case is given byregular patterns of supports, where it is possibleto take advantage of existing simmetries.
Let' sconsider, for instance, a pattern of supports withradial simmetry, as shown in fig.
2a, which mayresemble a gas_stove.
If the base f of a has thesame kind of approximately radial simmetry (aregular polygon could be a good approximation) andif the projection c of the baricenter of Acoincides with the center of f, then the supportinga is the circle with radius Ra under the conditionr R, where r is the radius of the "central hole"in the pattern of supports and R is the (minimal)radius of f. This simply means that the mostobvious positioning strategy is to center A withrespect to the pattern of supports; their actualshape is not important provided that they can betouched by A.
In case of failure of equilibriumrules a lower number of supports must be consideredand the radial simmetry is lost (for instance, thecase of a single support may be analyzed).\[?\] l,'TYPE bfig.3: axial simmetry\[~\]--~,- y 1TYPEa -.~y2TVPEC-'~Y3498AS a third example let us consider a couple ofsupports with an axis simmetry as shown in fig.3a(straight contours are used only to simplify thediscussion of this example, but there are notconstraints on the actual shapes (besidessimmetry).
If the face f for A exhibits the samekinds of simmetry (fig.3b) the simplest placementstrategy is to align the object axis to the supportone.
In this case the interior contours of eachsupport can be divided into a number of intervals,so that for each interval \[ Xi, Xi+l \] we have:a. min d(x) ,= max D(y) orI xi,xi+1 } yb.C.max d(x) < min D(y) or{ xi,xi+1 } y{ rain d(x)  ~'= rain D(y)}  and\[ xi,xi+1 \] y{ max d(x) ,~ max D(y) }{ xi,xi+1 \] yAnalogously the object contour can be dividedin intervals, so that for each interval \[ Yj, Yj+Iwe have:A. min D(y) ~ max d(x) or\[ Yj,Yj+I } xB.
max ~(y) (= min d(x) or{ Yj,Yj+I } xC.
rain O(y) ~ rain d(x) and\[ Yj,Yj+I \] xmax D(y) (= max d(x)\[ Yj,Yj+I I xOf course, some situations are mutuallyexclusive (type a with type A or type b with type Bintervals).PPSU~)RTIN G ARiAfig.4:supporting areaEquilibrium positions may be foundsuperimposing object intervals to support one bymeans of rules which are specific for eachcombination of types.
For example, one type A andone type b intervals can be used to search for anequilibrium position by means of a rule that can beroughly expressed as:"put type A on type c and type C on type b so thatthe distance t (see fig.4) is maximized".The supporting area a obtained this way isshown (the dashed one) in fig.4.
This kind ofrules can be easily generalized to handlesituations as a pencil on a grill.
Some problemsarise when the supports do not lie on the otherplane, as for a book supported partially by thetable top and partially by another book; in thiscase the concept of friction becomes relevant.
Amore detailed and better formalized description ofnaive statics can be found in (Di84a).5.
Pos i t ion ing  ob jec ts  in  the  sceneA special positioning module must be invokedto compute the actual coordinates of objects inorder to show the scene on the screen.
This module,which we mention only for lack of space, has abasic role, since it coordinates the knowledgeabout the whole scene, and can therefore activatespecific reasoning activities.
For instance, thereare rules to handle the transparency of someobjects with respect to particular relations andpossibly to generate new relations to be checked onthe basis of the previously discussed criteria.
Anexample is the phrase "the book on the table",which is accepted by the logic module asH_SUPPORT(book,table) but can be rejected at thislevel if there is no enough free space on the tabletop, and therefore modified into a new relationH_SUPPORT(book,B), where B is a suitable objectwhich is known to be supported by the table and istransparent to respect the On relationship (anotherbook, for instance).
A more detailed descriptioncan be found in (Ad84a).6.
Conc lus ionsNALIG is currently able to accept adescription as a set of simple spatial relationsbetween objects and the draw the imagine scene on ascreen.
A number of problems are still open,mainly in the area of knowledge models to describephysical phenomena and in the area of a suitableuse of fuzzy logic to handle uncertain objectpositions.
Apart from these enhancements of thecurrent release of NALIG, future work will be alsofocused (ml the interoonnection of NALIG with ananimation system which is under development at theUniversity of Genoa (Mo84a), in order to explorealso those reasoning problems that are related tothe description of actions performed by humanactors.499REFERENCESAd82a.
Adorni,G., Boccalatte,A., and DiManzo,M.,"Cognitive Models for Computer Vision",Proc.
9th.
COLING, pp.
7-12 (Prague,Czechoslovakia, July 1982).Ad83a.
Adorni,G.
and DIManzo,M., "Top-DownApproach to Scene Interpretation", Proc,CIL-83, pp.
591-606 (Barcelona, Spain,June 1983).Ad83b.
Adorni,G., DiManzo,M., and Ferrari,G.~"Natural Language Input for SceneGeneration", Proc.
ist.
Conf.
of theEuropean Chapter of the ACL, pp.
175-182(Pisa, Italy, September 1983).Ad83c.
Adorni,G., DiManzo,M., and Giunchiglia,F.,"Some Basic Mechanisms for Common SenseReasoning about Stories Envinronments",Proc.
8th.
IJCAI, pp.
72-74 (Karlsruhe,West Germany, August 1983).Ad84a.
Adorni,G., Di Manzo,M., and Giunchiglia,F.,"From Descriptions to Images: whatReasoning in between?
", to appear in Proc.6th.
ECAI, (Pisa, Italy, September 1984).Bo79a.
Boggess,L.C., "Computational Interpretationof English Spatial Prepositions", TR-75,Coordinated Sei.
Lab., Univ.
of Illinois,Urbana, ILL (February 1979).Bo83a.
Bona,R.
and Giunchiglia,F., "The semanticsof some ~patial prepositions: the Italiancase as an example", DIST, TechnicalReport, Genoa, Italy (January 1983).By8Oa.
Byrd,L.
and Borning,A., "Extending MECHO toSolve Static Problems", Proc.
AISB-80Conference on Artificial Intelligence,(Amsterdam, The Netherlands, July 1980).Di84a.
DiManzo,M., "A qualitative approach tostatics", DIST, Technical Report, Genoa,Italy (June 1984).Fo83a.
Forbus,K., "Qualitative Reasoning aboutSpace and Motion", in Mental Models, ed.Gentner,D., and Stevens,A.
,LEA Publishers,Hillsdale, N.J. (1983).Fo83b.
Forbus,K., "Measurement Interpretation inQualitative Process Theory", Proc.
8th.IJCAI, pp.
315-320 (Karlsruhe, WestGermany, August 1983).Fo83c.
Forbus,K., "Qualitative Process Theory",AIM-664A, Massachusetts Institute ofTechnology, A.I.
Lab., Cambridge, MA (May1983).Ha78a.
Hayes,P.J., "Naive Phisics I : Ontology forliquids", Working Paper N.35, ISSCO, Univ.of Geneve, Geneve, Switzerland (August1978).HaVga.
Hayes,P.J., "The Naive Physics Manifesto",in Expert Systems in the Micro ElectronicAge, ed.
Michie,D.,Edimburgh UniversityPress, Edimburgh, England (1979).He8Oa.
Herskovitz,A., "On the Spatial Uses of thePrepositions", Proe.
18th.
ACL, pp.
1-6(Philadelphia, PEN, June 1980).K179a.
de Kleer,J., "Qualitative and QuantitativeReasoning in classical Mechanics", inArtificial Intelli~ence: an MITPerspective, Volume I, ed.
Winston,P.H.
andBrown,R.H.,The MIT Press, Cambridge, MA(1979).K183a.
de Kleer,J.
and Brown,J., "Assumptions andAmbiguites in Mechanistic Mental Models",in Mental Models, ed.
Gentner,D., andStevens,A.,LEA Publishers, Hillsdale, N.J.(1983).Mo84a.
Morasso,P.
and Zaccaria,R., "FAN (FrameAlgebra for Nem): an algebra for thedescription of tree-structured fi~zres inmotion", DIST, Technical Report, Genoa,Italy (January 1984).So78a.
Sondheimer,N.K., "Spatial Reference andNatural Language Machine Control", Int.
J.Man-Machine Studies Vol.
8 pp.
329-336(1976).Wa79a.
Waltz,D.L.
and Boggess, L., "Visual AnalogRepresentations for Natural languageUnderstanding", Proc.
6th.
IJCAI, pp.926-934 (Tokyo, Japan, August 1979).Wa8Oa.
Waltz,D.L., "Understanding SceneDescriptions as Event Simulations", Proc.18th.
ACL , pp.
7-12 (Philadelphia, PEN,June 1980).Wa81a.
Waltz,D.L., "Towsmd a Detailed Model ofProcessing for Language Describing thePhysical World", Proc.
7th.
IJCAI, pp.
1-6(Vancouver, B.C., Canada, August 1981).500
