A SY}~ACTIC APPROACH TO DISCOURSE SEMANTICSLivia Polanyi and Remko SchaEnglish DepartmentUniversity of AmsterdamAmsterdamThe NetherlandsABSTRACTA correct structural analysis of a discourseis a prerequisite for understanding it.
This papersketches the outline of a discourse grammar whichacknowledges several different levels of structure.This gram~nar, the "Dynamic Discourse Model", usesan Augmented Transition Network parsing mechanismto build a representation of the semantics of adiscourse in a stepwise fashion, from left to right,on the basis of the semantic representations of theindividual clauses which constitute the discourse.The intermediate states of the parser model the in-termediate states of the social situation which ge-nerates the discourse.The paper attempts to demonstrate that a dis-course may indeed be viewed as constructed by meansof sequencing and recursive nesting of discourseconstituents.
It gives rather detailed examplesof discourse structures at various levels, andshows how these structures are described inthe framework proposed here.
"I DISCOURSE STRUCTURES AT DIFFERE.NT LEVELSIf a discourse understanding system is to beable to assemble the meaning of a complex discoursefragment (such as a story or an elaborate descrip-tion) out of the meanings of the utterances consti-tuting the fragment, it needs a correct structuralanalysis of it.
Such an analysis is also necessaryto assign a correct semantic interpretation toclauses as they occur in the discourse; this isseen most easily in cases where this interpretationdepends on phenomena such as the discourse scope oftemporal and locative adverbials, the movement ofthe reference time in a narrative, or the interpre-tation of discourse anaphora.The Dynamic Discourse Model, outlined in thispaper, is a discourse grammar under developmentwhich analyses the structure of a discourse in or-der to be able to deal adequately with its semanticaspects.
It should be emphasized at the outsetthat this system is a formal model of discoursesyntax and semantics, but not a computer implemen-tation of such a model.For a system to be able to understand a dis-course, it must be able to analyse it at severaldifferent levels.i.
Any piece of talk must be assigned to one Inter-action -- i.e., to a socially constructed verbalexchange which has, at any moment, a well-definedset of participants.2.
Virtually every interaction is viewed by itsparticipants as belonging to a particular pre-defined genre -- be it a doctor-patient interaction,a religious ceremony, or a casual chat.
Dependingon the genre, certain participants may have specif-ic roles in the verbal exchange, and there may be apredefined agenda specifying consecutive parts of theinteraction.
An interaction which is socially "in-terpreted" in such a fashion is called a SpeechEvent (Hymes,1967,1972).3.
A stretch of talk within one Speech Event may becharacterized as dealing with one Topic.4.
Within a Topic, we may find one or more Dis-course Units (DU's) -- socially acknowledgedunits of talk which have a recognizable "point"or purpose, while at the same time displaying aspecific syntactic/semantic structure.
Clearexamples are stories, procedures, descriptions,and jokes.5.
When consecutive clauses are combined into onesyntactic~semantic unit, we call this unit adiscourse constituent unit (dcu).
Examples are:lists, narrative structures, and various binarystructures ("A but B", "A because B", etc.).6.
Adjacency Structures may well be viewed as akind of dcu, but they deserve special mention.They are two or three part conversational rou-tines involving speaker change.
The clearestexamples are question-answer pairs and exchangesof greetings.7.
The smallest units which we shall deal with atthe discourse level are clauses and operators.Operators include "connectors" like "and", "or","because", as well as "discourse markers" like"well", "so", "incidentally".The levels of discourse structure just dis-cussed are hierarchically ordered.
For instance,any DU must be part of a Speech Event, while itmust be built up out of dcu's.
The levels may thusbe viewed as an expansion of the familiar linguis-tic hierarchy of phoneme, morpheme, word andclause.
This does not mean, however, that everydiscourse is to be analysed in terms of a fivelevel tree structure, with levels corresponding todcu, DU, Topic, Speech Event and Interaction.To be able to describe discourse as it actual-ly occurs, discourse constituents of various typesmust be allowed to be embedded in constituents ofthe same and other types.
We shall see various ex-amples of this in later sections.
It is worth em-phasizing here already that "high level constitu-ents" may be embedded in "low level constituents".For instance, a dcu may be interrupted by a clausewhich initiates another Interaction.
Thus, a struc-tural description of the unfolding discourse wouldinclude an Interaction as embedded in the dcu.
In413this way, we can describe "intrusions", "asides tothird parties", and other interruptions of one In-teract ion by another.In the descr ipt ion of discourse semantics, thelevel of the dcu's (including the adjacency struc-tures) plays the most central role: at this levelthe system def ines how the semantic representat ionof a complex discourse const ituent is constructedout of the semantic representat ions of its parts.The other levels of structure are also of some re-levance, however:- The Discourse Unit establ ishes higher level se-mantic coherence.
For instance, the semantics ofd i f ferent episodes of one story are integrated atthis level.- The Topic provides a frame which determines theinterpretat ion of many lexical items and descr ip-tions.- The Speech Event provides a script which descr ibesthe conventional  development of the discourse, andjustif ies assumptions about the purposes of dis-course part ic ipants.- The Interaction specif ies referents for indexicalslike "I", "you", "here", "now'~.II THE DYNAMIC DISCOURSE ~DELDeal inq with l inquist ic structures above theclause level is an enterpr ise which dif fers in anessential  way from the more common var iant of  lin-guist ic act iv ity which tries to descr ibe the inter-nal structure of the verbal symbols people exchange.Discourse l inguist ics does not study static verbalobjects, but must be involved with the social pro-cess which produces the discourse -- with the waysin which the discourse part ic ipants manipulate theobl igat ions and possib i l i t ies of the discourse sit-uation, and with the ways in which their talk isconstrained and framed by the structure of thisdiscourse situat ion which they themselves created.The structure one may assign to the text of a dis-course is but a ref lect ion of the structure of theprocess which produced it.Because of this, the Dynamic Discourse Modelthat we are developing is only indirect ly involvedin trying to account for the a poster ior i  structureof a f in ished discourse; instead, it tr ies to tracethe relevant states of the social space in terms ofwhich the discourse is constructed.
This capabi l i tyis obviously of crucial importance if the model isto be appl ied in the construct ion of computer sys-tems which can enter into actual dialogs.The Dynamic Discourse Model, therefore, mustconstruct the semantic interpretat ion of a dis-course on a clause by clause basis, from left toright, y ielding intermediate semantic representa-t ions of unf inished constituents, as well  as set-ting the semantic parameters whose values inf luencethe interpretat ion of subsequent constituents.A syntact ic/semantic system of this sort mayvery well  be fromulated as an Augmented Transit ionNetwork grammar (Woods, 1970), a non-determinist icparsing system specif ied by a set of transit ionnetworks which may call each other recursively.Every Speech Event type, DU type and dcu type isassociated with a transit ion network specifying itsinternal structure.
As a transit ion network pro-cesses the consecut ive const i tuents of a discoursesegment, it bui lds up, step by step, a representa-tion of the meaning of the segment.
This represen-tat ion is stored in a register associated with thenetwork.
At any stage of the process, this registercontains a representat ion of the meaning of the dis-course segment so far.An ATN parser of this sort models  importantaspects of the d iscourse process.
After each clause,the system is in a wel l -def ined state, character izedby the stack of act ive transit ion networks and, foreach of them, the values in its registers and theplace where it was interrupted.
When we say thatd iscourse part ic ipants know "where they are" in acompl icated discourse, we mean that they know whichd iscourse const i tuent is being in i t iated or cont in-ued, as wel l  as which d iscourse const i tuents havebeen interrupted where and in what order -- in otherwords, they are aware of the embedding structure andother information captured by the ATN configuration.The meaning of most  clause utterances cannotbe determined on the basis of the clause alone, butinvolves register  values of the embedding dcu -- aswhen a quest ion sets up a frame in terms of which itsanswer is interpreted (cf.
Scha, 1983) or when, todetermine the temporal reference of a clause in anarrative, one needs a "reference time" which isestabl ished by the foregoing part  of the narrat ive(section III B 2).
From such examples, we see thatthe d iscourse const i tuent  unit  serves as a frameworkfor the semantic interpretat ion of the c lauses whichconst i tute the text.
By the same token, we see thatthe semantics of an utterance is not exhaust ivelydescr ibed by indicat ing its i l locut ionary force andits proposi t ional  content.
An utterance may alsocause an update in one or more semantic registersof the dcu, and thereby inf luence the semantic in-terpretat ion of the fo l lowing utterances.This phenomenon also gives us a useful  pertspective on the not ion of interrupt ion which wasment ioned before.
For instance, we can now see thedi f ference between the case of a story being inter-rupted by a discussion, and the superf ic ia l ly  simi-lar case of a story fo l lowed by a d iscuss ion whichis, in its turn, fol lowed by another story.
In thef irst case, the same dcu is resumed and al l  itsregister  values are sti l l  available; in the secondcase, the f irst story has been f inished before thed iscuss ion and the re-entry into a storyworld isvia a d i f ferent story.
The f irst story has beenclosed off  and its register  values are no longeravi lable for re-act ivation; the tel ler of the sec-ond story must re- in i t ia l ize the var iables of time,place and character, even if the events of the sec-ond story concern exact ly  the same characters andsituat ions as the first.Thus, the notions of interrupt ion and resump-t ion have not only a social real i ty which is expe-r ienced by the interactants involved.
They alsohave semantic consequences for the bui ld ing andinterpretat ion of texts.Interrupt ion and resumption are often expl i -c i t ly s ignal led by the occurrence of "discoursemarkers".
Interrupt ion is s ignal led by a PUSH-marker  such as "incidental ly",  "by the way", "youknow" or "like".
Resumption is s ignal led by a POP-414-markers such as "O.K.
", "well", "so" or "anyway".
(For longer lists of discourse marking devices, andsomewhat more discussion of their functioning, seeReichman (1981) and Polanyi and Scha(1983b).
)In terms of our ATN description of discoursestructure, the PUSH- and POP-markers do almost ex-actly what their names suggest.
A PUSH-marker sig-nals the creation of a new embedded discourse con-stituent, while a POP-marker signals a return to anembedding constituent (though not necessarily theimmediately embedding one), closing off the cur-rent constituent and all the intermediate ones.
Thefact that one POP-marker may thus create a wholecascade of discourse-POPs was one of Reichman's(1981) arguments for rejecting the AT~ model of dis-course structure.
We have indicated before, however,that accommodating this phenomenon is at worst amatter of minor technical extensions of the A.
"~Ifor-malism (Polanyi and Scha, 1983b); in the presentpaper, we shall from now on ignore it.III DISCOURSE CONSTITD-ENT UNITSA.
Introduction.This section reviews some important ways inwhich clauses (being our elementary discourse con-stituent units) can be combined to form complexdiscourse constituent units (which, in most cases,may be further combined to form larger dcu's, byrecursive application of the same mechanisms).
Forthe moment, we are thus focussing on the basic dis-course syntactic patterns which make it possible toconstruct complex discourses, and on the semanticinterpretation of these patterns.
Sections IV and Vwill then discuss the higher level structures, wherethe interactional perspective on discourse comesmote to the fore.To be able to focus on discourse level phe-nomena, we will assume that the material to be dealtwith by the discourse granmu~r is a sequence con-sisting of clauses and operators (connectors anddiscourse markers).
It is assumed that every clausecarries the value it has for features such as speak-er, clause topic, propositional content (representedby a formula of a suitable logic), preposed consti-tuents (with thematic role and semantics), tense,mood, modality.
(The syntactic features we mustinclude here have semantic consequences which cannot always be dealt with within the meaning of theclause, since they may involve discourse issues.
)The semantics of a dcu is built up in par-allel with its syntactic analysis, by the~same re-cursive mechanism.
~4hen clauses or dcu's are com-bined to form a larger dcu, their meanings are com-bined to form the meaning of this dcu.
Along withregisters for storing syntactic features and seman-tic parameters, each dcu has a register which isused to build up the logical representation of itsmeaning.Since the syntactic and semantic rules op-erate in parallel, the syntactic rules have thepossibil ity of referring to the semantics of theconstituents they work on.
This possibil ity is infact used in certain cases.
We shall see an examplein section III C i.Complex discourse constituent units can bedivided into four structurally different types:- sequences, which construct a dcu out of arbitrar-ily many constituents (e.g.
: lists, narratives).- expansions, consisting of a clause and a subordi-nated unit which "expands" on it.- structures formed by a binary operator, such as"A because B", "If A then B".- adjacency structures, involving speaker change,such as question/answer pairs and exchanges ofgreetings.In the next subsections, III B and III C,we shall discuss sequences and expansions in moredetail.
One general point we should like to makehere already: sequences as well as expansions cor-respond to extensional semantic operations.
Thepropositions expressing the meanings of their con-stituents are evaluated with respect to the samepossible world -- the successive constituents sim-ply add up to one description.
(We may note thatsome of the binary structures which we shall notconsider further now, certainly correspond to in-tensional operations.
"If A then B" is a clear ex-ample.
)Since we will not discuss adjacency struc-tures in any detail in this paper, the problem ofaccommodating speaker change and different illocu-tionary forces in the discourse semantics will beleft for another occasion.B.
Sequential Structures.We shall discuss three kinds of sequentialstructures: lists, narratives, and topic chaining.i.
Lists.Perhaps the paradigmatic sequentialstructure is the list: a series of clauses CI,...,Ck, which have a s-~mm~tic structure of the formF(al) = v I .
.
.
.
.
F(a k) = v k,i.e., the clauses express propositions which con-vey the values which one function has for a seriesof alternative arguments.
For instance, when askedto describe the interior of a room, someone maygive an answer structured like this:"When I come into the door,then I see,to the left of me on the wall, a large win-dow (...).Eh, the wall across from me, there is a ehbasket chair (...).On the right wall is a mm chair (...).In the middle of the room there is, from leftto right, an oblong table, next to that around table, and next to that a tall cabinet.Now I think I got everything.
"(Transcript by Ehrich and Koster (1983), translatedfrom Dutch; the constituents we left out, indicatedby parenthesized dots, are subordinated consti-tuents appended to the ~ they follow.
)The list here occurs embedded under the phrase "Isee", and is closed off by the phrase "Now I thinkI got everything".Often, the successive arguments in alist arementioned in a non-random order -- in theabove case, for instance, we first get the loca-tions successively encountered in a "glance tour"from left to right along the walls; then the rest.415The ATN description of lists is very simple*:~ ciause: nextclause: ~ ~ clause:O first ~O next )OlistBoth the first and the next arc parse clauses whichmust have the semantic structure F(a) = v. (Whethera clause can be analysed in this fashion, dependson surface properties such as stress pattern andpreposing of constituents.)
Various registers areset by the first clause and checked when nextclauses are parsed, in order to enforce agreementin features such as tense, mood, modality.
The se-mantics of a new clause being parsed is simplyconjoined with the semantics of the list so far.2.
Narratives.Narratives may be seen as a special caseof lists -- successive event clauses specify whathappens at successive timepoints in the world de-scribed by the narrative.
Narratives are subdividedinto different genres, marked by different tenseand/or person orientation of their main lineclauses: specific past time narratives (marked byclauses in the simple past, though clauses in the"historical present" may also occur), generic pasttime narratives ( marked by the use of "would" and"used to"), procedural narratives (present tense),simultaneous reporting (present tense), plans (useof "will" and "shall"; present tense also occurs).We shall from now on focus on specific past narra-tives.
The properties of other narratives turn outto be largely analogous.
(Cf.
Longacre (1979) whosuggests treating the internal structure of a dis-course constituent and its "genre specification" astwo independent dimensions.
)clause:/~eventI J clause:clause: \ ~ /  circumstanceO eventl~_~flashbackspecific past narrativeAll clause-processing arcs in this networkfor "specific past narratives" require that thetense of the clause be present or simple past.
Theevent arc and the event arc process clauses with a- -~ i  non-durative aspect.
The circumstance arc processesclauses with a durative aspect.
(The aspectual ca-tegory of a clause is determined by the semanticcategories of its constituents.
Cf.
Verkuyl, 1972.
)The event arc is distinguished because it initial-1 izes the register settings.
* Notation: All diagrams in this paper have one ini-tial state (the leftmost one) and one final state(the rightmost one).
The name of the diagram indi-cates the category of the constituent it parses.Arcs have labels of the form "A:B" (or sometimesjust "A"), where A indicates the category of theconstituent which must be parsed to traverse thearc, and B is a label identifying additional con-ditions and/or actions.The specific past narrative network has atime register containing a formula representingthe current reference time in the progression ofthe narrative.
~,~en the time register has a valuet, an incoming circumstance clause is evaluated att, and it does not change the value of the time re-gister.
An event clause, however, is evaluated withrespect to a later but adjacent interval t', andresets the time register to an interval t", laterthan but adjacent to t'.
(Cf.
Polanyiand Scha, 1981)To show that this gives us the desiredsemantic consequences, we consider an abbreviatedversion of a detective story fragment, quoted byHinrichs (1981):(El) He went to the window(E2) and pulled aside the soft drapes.
(Cl) It was a casement window(C2) and both panels were cranked down to let inthe night air.
(E3) "You should keep this window locked," he said.
(E4) "It's dangerous this way.
"The E clauses are events, the C clauses are circum-stances.
The events are evaluated at disjoint, suc-sessively later intervals.
The circumstances areevaluated at the same interval, between E2 and E3.To appreciate that the simultaneity ofsubsequent circumstance clauses in fact is a con-sequence of aspectual class rather than a matter of"world knowledge", one may compare the sequence"He went to the window and pulled aside the softdrapes" to the corresponding sequence of circum-stance clauses: "He was going to the window andwas pulling aside the soft drapes".
World knowledgedoes come in, however, when one has to decide howmuch the validity of a circumstance clause extendsbeyond the interval in the narrative sequence whereit is explicitly asserted.Specific past narratives may also con-tain other constituents than clauses.
An importantcase in point is the "flashback" -- an embedded nar-rative which relates events taking place in a peri-od before the reference time of the main narrative.A flashback is introduced by a clause in the plu-perfect; the clauses which continue it may be inthe pluperfect or the simple past.clause: f-eventclause: ~0 @O f-init , pop> O~ clause: f-circumstanceflashbackThe first clause in a flashback (f-init)is an event clause; it initializes register set-tings.
The reference time within a flashback movesaccording to the same meachanism sketched above forthe main narrative line.After the completion of a flashback, themain narrative line continues where it left off --i.e., it proceeds from the reference time of themain narrative.
A simple example:Peter and Mary left the party in a hurry.Mary had ran into Johnand she had insulted him.So they got into the carand drove down Avenue C.4163.
Topic Chainin~Another sequential structure is thetopic chaining structure, where a series of dis-tinct predications about the same argument arelisted.
A topic chain consists of a series ofclauses C., ..., C k, with a semantic structure ofthe form~.
(a), .
.
.
,  Pk(a), where "a" translates thetopic NP'slof the clauses.
In the first clause ofthe chain, the topic is expressed by a phrase(either a full NP or a pronoun) which occurs insubject position or as a preposed constituent.
Inthe other clauses, it is usually a pronoun, oftenin subject position.
An example:Wilbur's book I really liked.It was on relativity theoryand talks mostly about quarks.I got it while I was working on the initial partof my research.
(Based on Sidner (1983), example D26.
)The topic chain may be defined by a verysimple transition network.~ clause: tcnclause: \ ./ clause:O tcl )O ~-- tcn >Otopic chainThe network has a topic register, which is set bythe first clause (parsed by the tcl arc), which al-so sets various other registers.
The tcn arc testsagreement in the usual way.
As for the topic regis-ter, we require that the clause being parsedhas a constituent which is interpreted as co-referential with the value of this register.
Thesemantics of a topic chain is created by simpleconjunction of the semantics of subsequent constit-ueHts, as in the case of the list.Lists, narratives and topic chains dif-fer as to their internal structure, but are distri-butionally indistinguishable -- they may occur inidentical slots within larger discourse constitu-ents.
For an elegant formulation of the grammar, itis therefore advantageous to bring them under acommon denominator: we define the notion sequenceto be the union of list, narrative and topic chain.C.
Expansions.Under the heading "expansions" we describetwo constructions in which a clause is followed bya unit which expands on it, either by elaboratingits content ("elaborations") or by describing prop-erties of a referent introduced by the clause("topic-dominant chaining").i.
Elaborations.A clause may be followed by a dcu (aclause or clause sequence) which expands on itscontent, i.e.
redescribes it in more detail.
Forinstance, an event clause may be expanded by amini-narrative which recounts the details of theevent.
An example:Pedro dined at Madame Gilbert's.First there was an hors d'oeuvre.Then the fish.After that the butler brought a glazed chicken.The repast ended with a flaming dessert...The discourse syntax perspective suggests that ina case like this, the whole little narrative mustbe viewed as subordinated to the clause which pre-cedes it.
We therefore construct one dcu which con-sists of the first clause plus the following se-quence.
.....An illustration of the semantic necessi-ty of such structural analyses is provided by themovement of the reference time in narratives.
Theabove example (by H. Kamp) appeared in the contextof the discussion about that phenomenon.
(Cf.
Dow-ty, 1982) Along with other, similar ones, it wasbrought up as complicating the idea that every eventclause in a narrative moves the reference time to alater interval.
We would like to suggest that it isno coincidence that such "problematic" cases involveclause sequences belonging to known paragraph types,and standing in an elaboration relation to the pre-ceding clause.
The reason why they interrupt theflow of narrative time is simple enough: theirclauses are not direct constituents of the narrativeat all, but constitute their own embedded dcu.To describe elaborations, we ~redefine thenotion of a clause to be either an elementary oneor an elaborated one (where the elaboration can beconstituted by a sequence or by a single clause).sequenceO e-claus~ 0 ~ "?~0e-clauseclauseIf a clause C is followed by a dcu D, D may beparsed as an elaboration of C, if C and D may beplausibly viewed as describing the same situation.
(Note that this is a relation not between thesurface forms of C and D, but between their mean-ings C' and D'.)
When constructing the semantics forthe complex clause, this semantic coherence must al-so be made explicit.2.
Topic-Dominant Chaining.Another phenomenon which gives rise to asimilar structure is "topic-dominant chaining".Within a clause with a given topic, certain otherconstituents may be identified as possibly dominant*.A dominant constituent may become the topic of thenext clause or sequence of clauses.
We suggest thatsuch a continuation with a new topic be seen as ex-panding on the clause before the topic-switch, andas syntactically subordinated to this.clause.
Thissubordinated constituent may either be a singleclause or another topic chain sequence.Similarly, a clause may be followed by arelative clause, the relative pronoun referring toa dominant constituent of the embedding clause.
Alsoin this case, the relative clause may be the firstclause of an embedded topic chain.0 e-claus~o topic chain~Ore l - c lau~o_~top ic  ta i lclause* The notion of dominance links discourse phenomenawith extraction phenomena within the sentence.
See,e.g., Erteschik-Shir and Lappin (1979).417(We thus introduce an alternative network for clauseinto the grammar, in addition to the one given be-fore.
)The dominant constituents of the e-clauseare stored in a register; the topic of the topicchain, as well as the relative pronoun of the tel.clause must be interpreted as coreferential with oneof those constituents.
The topic of topic tail(a "headless" topic chain) must in its turn coreferwith the relative pronoun.The semantics consists of simple conjunction.Both variants of topic-dominant chainingallowed by the above network are exemplified inthe following text (Sidner, 1983; example D26):(I) Wilbur is a fine scientist and a thoughtfulguy.
(2) He gave me a book a while back(2 ' )  which I really liked.
(3) It was on relativity theory(4) and talks mostly about quarks.
(5) They are hard to imagine(6) because they indicate the need forelementary field theories of a complex nature.
(7) These theories are absolutely es-sential to all relativity research.
( 8 ) Anyway(8') I got it(8") while I was working on the initial partof my research.
(9) He's a really helpful colleague to have thoughtof giving it to me.
(Indentation indicates subordination with respect tothe most recent less indented clause.)
This embed-ding of constituents by means of topic-dominantchaining would explain the "focus-stack" whichSidner (1983) postulates to describe the pronominalreference phenomena in examples like this.IV DISCOURSE UNITSWe now leave the discussion of the basic syn-tactic/semantic mechanisms for building discourseout of clauses, and turn to the higher levels ofanalysis, where considerations involving the goalsof the interaction start to come in.
First of all,we shall discuss the entities which Wald (1978)calls Discourse Units*, corresponding closely tothe entities which Longacre (1983) simply calls"Discourses".
Discourse Units (DU's) are sociallyacknowledged units of talk, which have a recogniza-ble point or purpose, and which are built aroundone of the sequential dcu's discussed in sectionIII B.Discourse Unit types which have been inves-tigated include stories (Labov, 1972; PTald, 1978;Polanyi, 1978b), descriptions of various sorts(Linde, 1979; Ehrich and Koster, 1983), proceduraldiscourse and hortatory discourse (see various re-ferences in Longacre (1983)).
* Wald restricts his notion to monologic discoursefragments.
It seems reasonable to generalize it tocases where more than one speaker may be involved.Because of the pragmatic relation between the Dis-course Unit and the surrounding talk (specifical-ly, the need to appear "locally occasioned" (Jef-ferson, 1979) and to make a "point" (Polanyi,1978b), the central part of the Discourse Unitusually is not a piece of talk standing completelyon its o~ feet, but is supported by one or morestages of preparatory and introductory talk on oneend, and by an explicit closure and/or conclusionat the other.
This may be illustrated by taking acloser look at conversationally embedded stories-- the paradigmatic, and most widely studied, DUtype.
specific past~ance  settinu narrative dcu:exitO )O -~ 0 ~C 20stor~A typical story is initiated with entrancetalk which sets the topic and establishes the rela-tion with the preceding talk.
Often we find an ab-stract, and some kind of negotiation about the ac-tual telling of the story.Then follows the "setting" which gives thenecessary background material for the story*.
Thenfollows the "core": a specific past narrative, re-lating a sequence of events.
The story is concludedwith "exit talk" which may formulate the point ofthe story quite explicitly, connecting the story-world with more general discourse topics.For instance, one story in Labov's (1972)collection has as its entrance talk an explicitelicitation and its response to it:O: What was the most important fight that youremember, one that sticks in your mind...A: Well, one (I think) was with a girl.There is an extensive section describing the set-ting: "Like I was a kid you know.
And she was thebaddest girl, the baddest girl in the neigh-borhood.
If you didn't bring her candy toschool, she would punch you in the mouth;"and you had to kiss her when she'd tell you.This girl was only twelve years old, man,but she was a killer.
She didn't take nojunk; she whupped all her brothers.
"Then, the event chain starts, and finally ends:"And I came to school one day and I didn'thave any money.
( .... ) And I hit the girl:powwww!
and I put something on it.
I winthe fight.
"The story is explicitly closed off:"That was one of the most important.
"Not every specific past narrative may bethe core of a story.
Because of the interactionalstatus of the story (its requirement to be "point-ful") there are other properties which are notice-able in the linguistic surface structure -- notablythe occurrence of "evaluation" (Polanyi, 1978b) andof a "peak" in the narrative line (Longacre,l~83).
* That the necessary background material must begiven before the actual event sequence, is attestedby a slightly complicated storytelling strategy,described in Polanyi (1978a) as the "True Start"repair: the storyteller first plunges right intothe event sequence, then breaks off the narrativeline and restarts the telling of the story, nowwith the insertion of the proper background data.418The structural description of stories,given above, should probably be further elaboratedto account for the phenomenon of episodes: a storymay be built by consecutive pieces of talk whichconstitute separate narrative dcu's.
At the levelof the story DU, the meanings of these narrativesmust be integrated to form a description of onestoryworld rather than many.In English and other Western European lan-guages, the Discourse Unit seems to be a largelyinteractional notion.
Its constituents are piecesof talk defined by the independently motivated dcu-grammar.
The DU grarmnar only imposes constraints onthe content-relations between its constituentdcu's; it does not define structures which an ade-quate dcu grammar would not define already.In other languages of the world, the situationseems to be somewhat different: there are syntac-tically defined ways for building DU's out of dcu's,which were not already part of the dcu grammar.For details, one should investigate, for instance,the various works referred to in Longacre(1983).
Also in this body of work, however, one canfind numerous cases where the structural differencebetween a DU ("Discourse", in Longacre's terms) andthe corresponding sequential dcu ("paragraph", inhis terms) is not very clear.V I~ERACTIONS AND SPEECH EVENTSThe system we present here is intended toanalyze the verbal material occurring in oneInteraction.
By an Interaction we mean a socialsituation in which a set of participants is in-volved in an exchange of talk.
Each of the partici-pants knows to be taking part in this situation,a~d assigns to the others the same awareness.
Byfocussing on one interaction, we single out, fromall the talk that may be going on at one place atthe same time, the talk which belongs together be-cause it is intended to be part of the same socialsituation.
(Cf.
Goffman, 1979)The set of participants of an Interactiondetermines the possible speakers and addressees ofthe talk occurring in it.
Similarly, the physicaltime and place of an interaction provide the ref-erents for indexicals like "now" and "here".A simple two person Interaction would bedescribed as an exchange of greetings, followedby a piece of talk as defined by a lower level ofthe grammar, followed by an exchange of farewells.Greetings and farewells are the only kinds of talkwhich directly engage the Interaction level ofdescription -- they correspond to signing on andsigning off to the list of participants.An "unframed" interaction between "unin-terpreted" people is a rare event.
People use arefined system of subcategorization to classifythe social situations they engage in.
These sub-categories, which we shall call Speech Event types(cf.
Hymes, 1967, 1972), often assign a specificpurpose to the interaction, specify roles for theparticipants, constrain discourse topics andconversational registers, and, in many cases,specify a conventional sequence of component acti-vities.The most precisely circumscribed kinds ofSpeech Events are formal rituals.
Speech Event typescharacterized by gran~nars which are less explicitand less detailed include service encounters (Mer-ritt, 1978), doctor-patient interactions (Byrne andLong, 1976), and casual conversations.The structure of talk which is exchangedin order to perform a task will follow the structureof some goal/subgoal analysis of this task (Grosz,1977).
In Speech Event types which involve a moreor less fixed goal, this often leads to a fixedgrammar of subsequent steps taken to attain it.
Forinstance, students looking at transcripts of the on-goings in a Dutch butchershop, consistently foundthe following sequential structure in the interac-tion between the butcher and a customer:i. establishing that it is this customer's turn.2.
the first desired item is ordered, and the orderis dealt with, .... , the n-th desired item isordered and the order is dealt with.3.
it is established that the sequence of ordersis finished.4.
the bill is dealt with.5.
the interaction is closed off.O dcu:20 dcu:l 30 dcu'2~OU'~cn'~O~Cn~4" " ~ " 90 dcu:5 ~Obutchershop interactionEach of these steps is filled in in a large varie-ty of ways -- either of the parties may take theinitiative at each step, question/answer sequencesabout the available meat, the right way to prepareit, or the exact wishes of the customer may all beembedded in the stage 2 steps, and clarificationdialogs of various sorts may occur.
In other words,we find the whole repertoire of possibil ities ad-mitted by the dcu gralmnar ( particularly, the partdealing with the possible embeddings of adjacencystructures within each other).Thus, we note that the arcs in a SpeechEvent diagram such as the above do not impose syn-tactic constraints on the talk they will parse.Thelabels on the arcs stand for conditions on the con-tent of the talk -- i.e., on the goals and topicsthat it may be overtly concerned with.An important Speech Event type withcharacteristics slightly different from the typesmentioned so far, is the "casual conversation".In a casual conversation, all participants havethe same role: to be "equals"; no purposes are pre-established; and the range of possible topics isopen-ended, although conventionally constrained.VI I~ERRUPT ION REVISITEDOne Speech Event type may occur embeddedin another one.
It may occupy a fixed Slot in it,as when an official gathering includes an informalprelude or postlude, where people don't act intheir official roles but engage in casual conver-sation.
(Goffman, 1979) Or, the embedding may occurat structurally arbitrary points, as when a ServiceEncounter in a neighborhood shop is interrupted forsmalltalk.The latter case may be described by tacit-ly adding to each state in the Service Encounternetwork a looping arc which PUSIIes to the Casual419
