PANEL  SESS IONMACHINE-READABLE D ICT IONABr~.SDonald E. WalkerNatural-Language and Knowledge-Ruouree SystemsSRI InternationalMenlo Park, California 04025, USAandArtificial Intelligence and Information Science ResearchBell Communicatlons Research445 South StreetMorrlstown, New Jersey 07960, USAAbst rac tThe papers in this panel consider machine-readabledictionaries from several perspectives: research incomputational linguistics and computational lexicology, thedevelopment of tools for improving accessibility, the design oflexical reference systems for educational purposes, andapplications of machine-readable dictionaries in informationscience contexts.
As background and by way of introduction, adescription is provided of a workshop on machine-readabledictionaries that was held at SRI International in April 1983.In t roduct ionDictionaries constitute a unique resource for a broad range ofresearch involving natural language, information, knowledge,and the analysis of contemporary culture.
Although they areoften regarded as the special preserve of lexicographers andlexicologists, data contained in dictionaries have significantimplications for research in linguistics, computationallinguistics, artificial intelligence, information science,psychology, anthropology, sociology, philosophy, education, andprobably other fields as well.
Dictionaries embody the lexiconof the language.
They provide phonological, grammatical,semantic, and historical information relevant for linguists andother language specialists.
They are useful adjuncts for thedevelopment of natural-language-understanding systems andnatural-language-interface technology.
They can provide amechanism for processing full-text data sources and forinformation retrieval more generally.
Dictionary data figure inpsychological experiments on language and perception.Semantics and usage are reflected in ways that are factored intoethnosemantic and sociolinguistic research.
Philosophical andlogical inquiries build on lexical information.
For education,dictionaries provide not only reference, but are practical aid forteaching both adults and children reading and writing skills.Dictionaries have always had these potential attributes, butthey are complex structures and difficult to manipulate.Having them available in machine-readable form makes moresophisticated research in lexieology and lexicography possible--and the results of such work feed back into research in theother areas mentioned above.
In addition, dictionaries can beutilized in areas like word processing and office automation,where people are currently showing considerable interest inthem.
A number of dictionaries have now been prepared bycomputer typesetting, so the tapes used to drive thephotocomposer a e available.
However, there is a significantdifference between having a dictionary in computerized formand having a database mbodying its contents which can beaccessed in a number of different ways.A WorkshopRecognizing the potential of machine-readable dictionariesand, at the same time, the lack of coordination among peopleworking in the field, Bob Amsler and 1 organized a A Workshopon Machine-Readable Dictionaries at SR!
International inApril 1983.
The National Science Foundation agreed to providefunds (Grant No.
1ST-8300940; SRI Project 5699), and wesucceeded in involving 29 people from Belgium, England, WestGermany, Italy, Japan, Sweden, and the United States for aperiod of three days.
The group included research scientistsfrom universities and institutes, publishers, and people involvedin marketing dictionary products.There were a number of objectives that motivated conveningthe workshop and that served as a guide to its organization andthe assessment of its results:1.
Clarification of the research interests and goals ofboth the participants and the broader communitythat they represent.
Including in the latter aredictionary publishers and the various classes ofpotential users of machine-readable dictionaries andtheir by-products.2.
Identification of the resources in the field: forexample, dictionaries actually in machine-readableform, the people engaged in research on them,programs developed for processing dictionary data,references to the relevant literature.3.
Examination of the problems entailed in research inthis area.4.
Delineation of computational requirements forvarious research tasks.5.
Specification of guidelines for dictionary design,both form and content.6.
Formulation of a comprehensive plan to coordinateresearch efforts in the field.7.
Determination of needs and potential sources offunding for research.8.
Arrangements for future workshops or othermeetings.A volume containing a challenge paper prepared by BObAmsler, contributions from a number of the participants,summaries of the discussions, and an extensive bibliography ofwork in the field is in preparation.457
