ARGUMENTATION IN REPRESENTATION SEMANTICS *Pierre-Yves RACCAHERA 430 - C.N.R.S.Conseil d'EtatPalais Royal75100 Paris RPABSTRACTIt seems rather natural to admit thatlanguage use is governed by rules that relatesigns, forms and meanings to possible intentionsor possible interpretations, in function ofutterance situations.
Not less natural should seemthe idea that the meaning of a natural languageexpression conveys enough material to the input ofthese rules, so that, given the situation ofutterance, they determine the appropriateinterpretation.
If this is correct, the semanticdescription of a natural language expressionshould output not only the 'informative content'of that expression, but also all sorts ofindications concerning the way this expression maybe used or interpreted.
In particular, theargumentative power of utterances is dueto argumentative indications conveyed by thesentences uttered, indications that are not partof their informative content .
This paperemphasizes the role of argumentation in languageand shows bow it could be accounted for in aformal Representation Semantics framework.
An"example of an analysis is provided in order toshow the "system at work".I.
ARGUMENTATION AND THE SEMANTIC PROGRAM.A.
What is linguistic in argumentation.The theory of argumentation developped byJean-Claude Anscombre and Oswald Ducrot is anattempt to describe some aspects of language thathave not been carefully studied yet, in spite oftheir importance for linguistic theory, discourserepresentation, as well as simulation ofunderstanding.In their framework, utterances are seen to beprodu@ed in order to argue for some particularconclusions with a certain force, depending on thesituation of utterance.
Thus, when I utter(I) This is beautiful but expensivein front of a shop window and pointing to someitem, I present my utterance as a reason for notbuying this item, ~hile if I say(2) This is expensive but beautiful*This work has been supported in part by acontract with the Centre National de la RechercheScientifique (contrat~n ?
95.
5122)I am giving a reason to buy the item I.Note that after uttering(l), I can perfectlywalk into the store and buy the item : what is odd,in normal situations is to say (I')(l') This is beautiful but expensive, andtherefore, I will buy it.Anscombre and Ducrot unburied the oldAristotelician concept of topoi to describe themovement from the utterance to the conclusion.
Theytake these topoi to be of the form :(To) The more X is P, the more Y is Q.where 'X is P' is the idea expressed by theoriginal utterance, and 'Y is Q' is theargumentative orientation (the conclusion arguedfor by producing the original utterance in theparticular situation in which it is uttered).
InRaccah 84, I have argued for the adequacy of aslightly different form for the topoi, which takesinto account the epistemical relation of thespeaker to the p~miss  :(T) The more evidence I have in favor of X being PThe more arguments l'have in favor of Ybeing Q.Topoi of this kind are shown to avoid problems withnon-gradual properties and, I argue, are closer tothe intuition we have about the argumentativeprocess 2.The description of argumentative connectivesprovides rules to select the argumentativeorientation of a compounded utterance in functionof the more basic utterances that they connect.Thus, the analysis of (1), (i'), and (2)suggests the following description of theargumentative aspects of but :in any utterance of P but Q, the presence ofbutIi am talking here of normal situations , whereexpensiveness is a reason not to buy, while beautyis a reason to buy2The idea is that it is not the degree of P-uess ofX (when this means something) that makes Y (more orless) Q, but the degree to which the speakerbelieves X is P that entitles him (her) to believe(more or less) that Y is Q.525- requires that the utterances of P and Q beinterpreted as oriented towards oppositeconclusions,- indicates that the complex utterance is orientedtowards the conclusion towards which Q isoriented.Following the example of Occam's -disposable-razor, I think that when there is a con~nonproperty for all utterances of the same sentence,ther~ ought to be, in the description of thesentence, some features that enable the utterancede--~-~ptlon to state this common property of thedifferent utterances.
In other words, at theoutput of the sentence semantics level ofanalysis, there ought to be something that shouldbe taken as input to the pragmatic level and willenable it to formulate the argumentativeproperties common to all utterances of the samesentence, l call the study of this something"pre-argumentative analysis".
The reason why Italk of "disposable" razor is that it is throughutterance analysis that we discover theinteresting properties of sentences.
So that weneed, for heuristic reasons, to use the pragmaticanalysis in order to know what kind of output wewant for the sentence analysis : we dispose of therazor only after using it...B.
What is argumentative in semantics.In spite of this slight methodologicalincursion into pragmatics, my concern is forsentence semantic analysis.
I postulate a semanticlevel of sentence analysis such that :- no information about the world or the speaker's(or hearer's) beliefs are taken into account atthis level;- all of the informative meaning carried by thesentence can be represented at this level (inparticular, the logical information as well as theconventional implicature ;- the  pre -argumentat ive  aspects of the sentenceare described at this level;the representation of meaning and thedescription of pre-argumentation are bothconpos i t iona l  ;- information about the world and beliefs onlyneed to be added at the next level of analysis toget full interpretations of the utterances of thesentence.Note that I do not claim that models of this kindhave any psychological reality, not even anychance to be good candidates, as such, forcomputer simulating of understanding.
Thus myclaim of autonomy of semantics (includingpre-argumentation) towards pragmatics is neitheran ontological claim nor a claim of technicalefficiency, but rather an epistemic one.
This wayof analyzing language aims at answering somelinguistic and methodological questions, and it isas such that I wish it be tested for itsapplicability to Artificial Intelligence.Among the theories sharing these assumptions,I would like to speak about what Icall Representation Semantics : a theory ofmeaning representation for sentences, inspired byMontague 73 for its formal aspects, but divergingfrom it in its more fundamental issues.Representation Semantics uses the tools developpedby Montague but, instead of aiming at describingthe meaning of a sentence, as a result of itssemantic analysis, it only pretends to give, asits output, a representation of some aspects ofits meaning : partial models of thepresuppositional contentpthe informative content,and the pre-argu=entat ive content of  thesentence I .
I use Karttunen and Peters'conventional implicature framework 2 , as apre-selection of possible models for representingthe meaning of sentences.
This is shown to avoidthe classical paradox of thepresupposltion/entailment relationship 3 , Meaningrepresentations for sentences includepre-argumentative features in such a way that,given the situation and the adequate topoi, theargumentation of an utterance -in that situationand within the corresponding cultural frame- ofthe sentence analyzed can be computed.II.
OUTLINE OF A THEORY OF MEANINGREPRESENTATION.A.
Ingredients.A detailed presentation of the theory wouldrequire a long and careful discussion of theconcepts involved in it (some of which havealready been discussed in Raccah 80, 82 and 83), ajustification of their raison d'@tre and of theirarticulation within the theory.
Howeverinteresting, these technical and foundationalaspects do not fit this paper (both for materialand strategical reasons).
Nevertheless, I wouldlike to briefly sketch the great lines of theanalysis process suggested by the theory .The following diagram should partiallyillustrate this point.Isee Kamp 80, for the informative content ; Raccah80 or 83 for the presuppositional and informativecontents and Bruxelles-Raccah 83 and Raccah 84 forpreliminary discussions about the~ re-argumentative content.Karttunen and Peters 79.3cf.
Raccah 82.526semantic analysis IS-) .
t ree2- I t ra?s-  L /R l~\ [ represenL / - -~.
.
.
.
~ " ~P2\[|  tati?n J IM2/Ix--/IWhere|:S is a sentenc~l  expresses what is presupposedP2 expresses what is assertedR1 expresses conditions on argumentationR2 expresses pre-argumentationM1 is a model representing P1M2 is a model representing P2.Each sentence is given one (or more, if ambiguous)analysis tree by the syntactic module.
Each treeis then 'decomposed' into four formulae : one forthe presupposition, one for the assertedinformative content, one for conditions onargumentation, and one for pre-argumentation.
Thefirst two 'decompositions' can be obtained by theuse of Karttunen and Peters' method, inspired byMontague's translation function 2.
They both leadto the construction of a partial model, say one ofthe smallest models satisfying P1 for thepresupposition, and one of the smallest modelssatisfying both P1 and P2, for what is asserted.An example of constructions of this kind is givenby Kamp's discourse representations (Kamp 80)B. yes, but what about argumentation ?Conditions on argumentation are imposed mainlyby the use of connectives (like but, however,even~ etc.).
A semantic description of theseconnectives states, among other things, the~elationship between the possible argumentativeorientations of the utterances connected =.Formulae expressing these conditions onargumentation will only appear in sentencescontaining this kind of connectives, since Ihaven't found, as yet, simple sentences imposingconditions on argumentation.
~le form of this kindof formulae is shown in the discussion of theexample.Pre-argumentation is a theorical constructmuch harder to justify on empirical grounds thananyone of the other three~.
Its theoreticaljustification, however, is easy to see : The topoiapply to some semantic indications in order to1 Please recall that this process is not intentedto be a model of how humans actually deal withlanguage nor a suggestion about how a computershould be structured : it stems from an externalepistemic view of language.2 See Montague 73, Karttunen and Peters 79, andRaccah 80.form argumentative orientations of utterances.These indications cannot be equated withthe informative content of the sentence, for tworeasons :(i) the same sentence, say "It is 8 o'clock", canbe used in an argumentation whose premiss is 'itis late', as well as in an argumentation whosepremiss is 'it is early'.
We will have to take thesentence "It is 8 o'clock" to bepre-argumentatively ambiguous, whileits informative content is not.
(ii) Adverbs of degree (rather, very,extremely .... ) usualy do not modify theargumentative orientation of utterances (whilethey change the informative content of thesentence uttered) : they indicate the force withwhich the utterance, as it is presented, arguesfor the orientation.
For example, if I say "Thiscar is very expensive" as an argument for notbuying it, it is not the very-expensiveness of thecar that makes the argument, but itsexpensiveness; what the use of '~ery" says is thatmy arguments for not buying the car are strongerbecause my evidence for its expensiveness isstronger : in fact I even have enough evidence tosay that it is very expensive.Formulae expressing the pre-argumentationwill also express the pre-argumentatlve valueascribed to it by these indications.
The form ofthese formulae (which can certainly be improved)is ~c l~ where c is a logical expression(stan6i ~n for the pre-orientation) and ~ is anindex standing for the pre-argumentative value.III.
AN EXAMPLE.I will now show, in an example analysis of aparticular sentence, how the theory buildsdescriptions of the different aspects of themeaning, and how these descriptions are connectedto one another and to eventual pragmaticinformation, in order to allow an interpretationof the possible utterances of the sentence.Suppose we want to analyse the sentence5 This position, however, assumes the hypothesisthat any utterance of a complex sentencecontaining an argumentative connective can beconsidered as a complex utterance, i.e.
anutterance which can be decomposed into twoutterances linked with this connective.
SeeBruxelles-Raccah 83 for a discussion of thishypothesis.4Fortunately, this kind of justifications do notconcern us here, but I realize that even the uglynotion of informative content  seems to have moreintuitive backup than this one : a story to becontinued...527(3) The present king of France is very old buthe plays Jazz.in a cultural context where it is believed thata) old people tend not to like Jazz, andb) people who play Jazz tend to like it.Note that there are very many other thingsbelieved about old people, such as (a')(a') old people tend to be wise,and many other things believed about people whoplay Jazz, such as (b')(b') people who play Jazz tend to wake up late inthe morning.We will take the topos expressing (a) to bethe rule :Where 0 stands for old, L for like and "#i, forJazz I, and the topos expressing ~- - to  be the ruleWhere ~ stands for play.Suppose now that the analysis of (4)(4) The present king of France is very oldgives the following four formulae :Rl(4) :R2(4) f O( ~I~K(51} ~where K , V~)  mean "present king of France",and "very old", ~ ~(~) means "the unique xsuch that ~(~)# , ~ " ?
s truth.
PI(4) says that(4) presupposes that there is a unique entitywhich is the present king of France ; P2(4) saysthat (4) asserts that this entity is very old ;RI(4) says that (4) imposes no conditions onargumentation ; and R2(4) says that (4) ispre-oriented towards whatever conclusion can beinfered from the present king of France being old,and that the conclusion will obtain with a force,Similarily, suppose that the analysis of (5):I This is terribly sloppy (the symbolic languageused is not defined) and incomplete (for instance,there should be an indication of conditions on theapplication of the topos), but it doesn't affectmy purpose.
(5) He (the present king of France) plays Jazzgives the following four formulae :P2(S)Rl(5) ~Ci,?k~c~)Jwith similar interpretation.If, in addition, we have a formal descriptionof but in accordance to what has been suggested insection I, we account, in a compositional way, forall of the four aspects of (3) which are examinedhere : let us see this in some detail.The formal description of but isfollowingP1 (X but Y) : Pl(x) A PI(Y)P2 (X but Y) : P2(x)~ P2(Y)R1 (X but Y) : Topos/R2 (Y) = ~Topos /R2  (x)R2 (X but Y) : R2(Y)the~ere  the first expression says that what ispresupposed by X but Y is the conjunction of whatis presupposed by X and what is presupposed by Y ;the second expression says that what is assertedby X but Y is the conjunction of what is assertedby X and what is asserted by Y ; the thirdexpression says that the topoi that can beselected are those which are such that theirapplication to the respective pre-orientations ofX and Y leads to opposite formulae (i.e.
such thatthe argumentative orientations of thecorresponding utterances of X and Y are opposite);the last expression says that the pre-orientationof X bu~Y is that of Y.Applying this description of but to (4) and(5) leads to the following description of (3) :pl (3) : H~(~)+- ->~ ~)which corresponds to the actual interpretations of(3).
In particular, this description correctlypredicts that, without further information aboutthe context of utterance, the pair of topoi thatare naturally selected to interpret (3) is (Ta,Tb)rather than the other three possibilitiesmentioned here.
In fact, to \[elect (Ta,Tb') , wewould have to believe tha~o like Jazz and towake up late in the morning are incompatible whilebelieving that people who play Jazz tend to wakeup late in the morning.
If we wanted to select(Ta',Tb) we would have to believe that to be wiseand to like Jazz are opposed : this is a possible528choice, and an utterance of (3) where these topoiwere forced by some additional contextualinformation would be likely to shock some people(including myself).
Finally, if we wanted toselect (Ta',~b') , we would have to believe thatto be wise and to wake up late in the morning areopposed : another possible choice, that might havemore adepts than ~ the last one.The theory is still young ; its formal version iseven younger, and certainly very imperfect.However, it is the only theory on the "market"(and for that reason, the first one...) whichexamines this aspect of semantics, and offers abasis for a conception of a Natural LanguageProcessor that might "grasp the idea" expressed bya text and not only retrieve pieces ofinformation.A computer version of a small fragment ofFrench is now at study.
The programming languagesused for this study are PROLOG and LISP.
Theprogramming of syntax and of the informativeaspects of semantic~ follows the ideas of Friedmanand Warren 78 ar~79 and of Hobhs and Rosenschein78.
For the pre-argumentative aspects and topoirules, nothing had been done before and muchremains to be done...IV REFERENCESAnscombre, Jean-Claude and Oswald Ducrot :L'argumentation dans la lan~ue, Mardaga,Bruxelles, 1983.Bruxelles, Sylvie and Pierre-Y~es Raccah :"L'analyse Argumentative" report on CNRSproject n ?
95.5122 : IntelligenceArtificielle 82, Paris, 1983.Friedman, Joyce and David S. Warren : "A parsingmethod for Montague Grammar", Linguisticsand Philosophy, 1978, vol.
2.
"Using semantics in non-context-free parsingof Montague Gra,,nar" ; Department of ComputerSciences, University of Michigan, 1979.Hobbs, Jerry and Stanley Rosenschein : "Makingcomputational sense of Montague'sIntensionnal Logic", Artificial Intelligence9, 1978.Kemp, Hans : "A theory of truth and semanticrepresentation" in Groenendijk et el, eds.Formal Methods in the Study of Language,Amsterdam, 1980.Karttunen, Lauri and Stanley Peters :"Conventional Implicature", in Syntax andSemantics, vol.11, Oh and Dinnen, eds.
NewYork 1979.Montague, Richard : "The Proper Treatment ofQuantification in Ordinary English" (1973),reprint in Thomason, ed.
Formal Philosophy,Yale University Press, 1974.Raccah, Pierre-Yves : "Formal Understanding"Semantlkos 4,2 1980.
"Presupposition, Signification etImplication" Semantikos 6:2, 1982"Presupposition et Intension" HEL 5:2, 1983.
"Argumentation et Raisonnement Implicite", inLes Modes de raisonnement proceedings of the2nd t~onference on f.ognitive ~ciences,University of Paris, 1984.529
