Conceptual and Linguistic Decisions in GenerationLaurence DANLOSLADL (CNRS)Universit~ de Paris 72, Place Jussieu7S00S Paris, FranceABSTRACTGeneration of texts in natural language requires makingconceptual and linguistic decisions.
This paper shows first thatthese decisions involve the use of a discourse grammar,secondly that they are all dependent on one another but thatthere is a priori no reason to give priority to one decisionrather than another.
As a consequence, a generationalgorithm must not be modularized in components that makethese decisions in a fixed order.1.
IntroductionTo express in natural language the information given in asemantic representation, at least two kinds of decisions have tobe made: "conceptual decisions" and "linguistic decisions".Conceptual decisions are concerned with questions such as: inwhat order must the information appear in the text?
whichinformation must be expressed explicitly and what can be leftimplicit?
Linguistic decisions deal with questions such as:which lexical items to choose?
which syntactic constructions tochoose?
how to cut the text into paragraphs and sentences?The purpose of this paper is to show that conceptualdecisions and linguistic decisions cannot be madeindependently of one another, and therefore, that a generationsystem must be based on procedures that promote intimateinteraction between conceptual and linguistic decisions.
Inparticular, our claim is that a generation process cannot bemodularized into a "conceptualizer" module making conceptualdecisions regardless of any linguistic considerations, passing itsoutput to a "dictionary" module which would figure out thelexical items to use accordingly, which would then in turnforward its results to a "grammar", where the appropriatesyntactic constructions are chosen and then developed intosentences by a "syntactic component".
In such generationsystems (cf.
(McDonald 1983) and (McKeown 1982)), it isassumed that the conceptualizer is language-free, i.e., needhave no linguistic knowledge.
This assumption is questionable,as we are going to show.
Furthermore, in such modularizedsystems, the linguistic decisions must, clearly, be made so asto respect the conceptual ones.
This consequence would beacceptable if the best lexical choices, i.e., the most precise,concise, evocative terms that can be chosen, always agreewith the conceptual decisions.
However, there exist cases inwhich the best lexical choices and the conceptual decisions arein conflict.To prove our theoritical points, we will take as anexample the generation of situations involving a resultcausation, i.e., a new STATE which arises because of one (orseveral) prior ACTs (Schank 1975).
An illustration of a resultcausation is given in the following semantic representation(A) CRIME : ACT =: SHOOTINGACTOR --> HUMO =: 3ohnSHOOTING:AT --> HUMI =: MaryBODY-PART =: HEAD===> STATE =: DEADOB3ECT --> HUMIwhich is intended to describe a crime committed by a personnamed John against a person named Mary, consisting ofJohn's shooting Mary in the head, causing Mary's death.2.
Conceptual decisions and lexical choiceGiven a result causation, one decision that alanguage-free conceptualizer might well need to make wouldbe whether tO express the STATE first and then the ACT, or tochoose the opposite order.
If these decisions were passed onto a dictionary, the synthesis of (A) above would be texts likeMary is dead because John shot her in the head.John shot Mary in the head.
She is dead.made up of one phrase expressing the STATE and oneexpressing the ACT.
But it seems more satisfactory to producetexts such as( Z ) Mary was killed by John.
He shot her in the head.
(2) John shot Mary in the head, killing her.built around to kill.
Such texts don't follow conceptualdecisions dissociating the STATE and its cause: to kill (in theconstruction No V N1 =: John killed Mary) expresses in thesame time the death of N1 and the fact that this death is dueto an action (not specified) of No (McCawley 1971).
Weshowed in (Danlos 1984) that a formulation embodying a verbwith a causal semantics such as to kill to describe theRESULT, and another verb to describe the ACT is, in most ofthe cases, preferable to a formulation composed of a phrase501for the STATE and another one for the ACT.
This resultindicates that conceptual decisions should not be made withouttaking into account the possibilities provided by the language,in the present case, the existence of verbs with a causalsemantics such as to kill, This attitude is also imperative if agenerator is to produce frozen phrases.
The meaning of afrozen sentence being not calculable from the meaning of itsconstituents, frozen phrases cannot be generated from alanguage- free conceptualizer forwarding its decisions to adictionary\]1.
Conceptual decisions, segmentation into sentences andsyntactic constructionsLet us suppose that a result causation is to begenerated by means of two verbs, one with a causal semanticssuch as to kill for the RESULT, and one for the ACT, and letus look at the ways to form a text embodying these twoverbs.
The options available are the following:- order of the information.
There are two possibilities.
Eitherthe phrase expressing the RESULT or the phrase expressingthe ACT occurs first.- number of sentences.
There are two possibilities.
Eithercombine the phrases expressing the RESULT and the ACT intoa complex sentence, as in (2) (John shot Mary in the head,killing her.
), or form a text made up of two sentences, onedescribing the ACT, one describing the RESULT, as in (1) (Marywas killed by John.
He shot her in the head.
).- choice of syntactic constructions.
We will restrict ourselvesto the active construction and to the passive one.
For thelatter, there is the choice between passive with an agent andpassive without an agent.
On the whole, for each of the twoverbs involved, there are three possibilities.The combination of these 3 options gives 36 possibilities, but itturns out that only 15 of them are feasible.
For example,texts composed of two sentences, one in a passive form withan agent, the other in a passive form without an agent, areappropriate toprecedes theexpressing the(3a) Mary( 3b ) Mary(3c)  Mary(3d) *Maryexpress a result causation only if the RESULTACT, or if the agent is in the first sentenceACT:was killed by John.
She was shot.was killed.
She was shot by John.was shot by John.
She was killed.was shot.
She was killed by John.
1As another example, it is possible to combine the phrasesexpressing the ACT and the RESULT into a complex sentence ifthey are both in an active formJohn shot Mary, killing her.John killed Mary by shooting her.but it is impossible if they are both in a passive form: thefollowing formulations are awkward*Mary was killed by being shot by John.
*Mary was killed by John by being shot.
2and the only other conceivable possibilities are to use asubordination conjunction such as because, when or as, butthe resulting texts are clumsy:*Mary was killed (because + when + as) she wasshot by John.
*Mary was shot by John and, because of that, she waskilled.A generation system must know for each combinationwhether it is feasible or not.
Either this knowledge iscalculable from other data, or it constitutes data that must beprovided to the generator.
We are going to see that thesecond solution is better.
First, on a semantic level, one canseek to verbalize the intuitions that can be drawn, for example,from paradigm (3), but this activity can be only descriptive andnot explicative.
In other words, the inacceptability of (3d) is afact of language that cannot be explained by semanticcomputations of more general import.
So the list of the 15feasible combinations must be part of the data of thegenerator.
Now the following question arises: is it possible todetermine the structures of the texts corresponding to the "15elements of this list.
The answer is affirmative when thenumber of sentences is 2, and negative when it is 1.
Thecombinations with two sentences involve only one type oflinearization: juxtaposition.
On the other hand, thecombinations with one sentence involve- a present participle if the ACT and RESULT are bothexpressed in an active form and if the ACT precedes theRESULT, as in John shot Mary, killing her- a gerundif if the ACT and the RESULT are both expressedin an active form and if the RESULT precedes the ACT, as inJohn killed Mary by shooting her1.
A star (') indicates that a text is awkward but it does not necessarily meanthat it is ungrammatical Or uninterpretable.2.
The deletion of the agent leads to a formu\]abon which is correct Mary waskilled by being shot but which does not express the author of the crime.502- a relative clause if the RESULT is expressed in a passiveform with an agent and precedes the ACT, this beingexpressed in an active form, as in Mary was killed by Johnwho shot her in the head- etc.These types of linearization are nOt predictable.
As aconsequence, they must be provided to the generator.
Thisone must embody in its data the structures of the textscorresponding to the 15 feasible combinations.
Thesestructures constitute a real discourse grammar for resultcausations.
The formulation of result causations must bemodelled on one of the 15 discourse structures 3.
Generatinga result causation thus entails selecting one of these discoursestructures.~..
Selection of a discourse structureThe fact that only 15 discourse structures out of 36possibilities are feasible shows that it is not possible to makedecisions about order of information, segmentation intosentences and syntactic constructions independently of oneanother.
To do so could potentially result in awkward textsmore than half the time.Furthermore, lexical choice and selection of a discoursestructure cannot be made independently of one another.
Adiscourse structure leads to an acceptable text if and only ifthe formulations of the ACT and the RESULT present thesyntactic properties required by the structure.
For example,some causal verbs such as to assassinate cannot occur after aphrase describing the ACT:*John shot the Pope in the head assassinating him.
*John shot the Pope in the head.
He assassinatedhim 4 .So, if the verb to assassinate is to be used, all of the3.
This point is akin to an assumption supported by (McKeown 1982), exceptthat ours discourse structures contain linguistic information contrarily to herswhich indicate only the order in which the information must appear.4.
These forms become acceptable if they are added adverbial phrases:John shot the Pope in the head, thereby assassinating Aim in aspectacular way.John shot the Pope in the head.
Thereby he assassinated him in aspectacular way.discourse structures in which the RESULT appears after theACT are inappropriate.
On the other hand, if a discoursestructure where the RESULT occurs after the ACT is selected,the use of to assassinate is forbidden.At this point, we have shown that decisions about lexicalchoice, order of the information, segmentation into sentencesand syntactic constructions are all dependent on one another.This result is fundamental in generation since it has animmediate consequence: ordering these decisions amounts togiving them an order of priority.$'.
Priorities in decisionsThere is no general rule stating to which decisionspriority must be given.
It can vary from one case to another.For example, if a semantic representation describes a suicide,it is obviously appropriate to use to commit suicide.
To doso, priority must be given to the lexical choice and not to theorder of the information.
If the order ACT-RESULT has beenselected, it precludes the use of to commit a suicide whichcannot occur after the description of the act performed toaccomplish the suicide:*John shot himself, committing suicide.
*John shot himself.
He committed suicide.On the other hand, if a result causation is part of a biggerstory, and if strictly chronological order has been chosen togenerate the whole story, then the result causation should begenerated in the order ACT-RESULT.
In other words, the orderof the information should be given priority.
In other situations,there is no clear evidence for giving priority to one decisionover another one.
As an illustration, let us take the case of aresult causation which occurs in the context of a crime.
It canbe stated that the result DEAD must be expressed by:- to assassinate as a first choice, to kill as a secondchoice, if the target is famous- to  murder as a first choice, to kill as a secondchoice, if the target is not famousMoreover, the most appropriate order is, in general,RESULT-ACT if the target is famous, and ACT-RESULTotherwise.
In the case of a famous target, the use of toassassinate is not in contradiction with the decision about theorder of the information.
But in the case of a non- famous?
arget, the use of to murder doesn't fit the order ACT-RESULT,for this verb cannot occur after a description of the ACT:?
John shot Mary in the head, murdering her.?
John shot Mary in the head.
He murdered her.Therefore, either the decision about the order of theinformation or the decision to use to murder has to be503forsaken.
The former solution would yield to texts such asJohn murdered Mary by shooting her in the head.John murdered Mary.
He shot her in the head.where the order of the information is RESULT-ACT, and thelatter one to texts such asJohn shot Mary in the head, kilting her.John shot Mary in the head.
He killed her.using the verb to kill instead of to murder.
At the currenttime, the choice between these two solutions can be basedonly on intuitions that are not sufficiently operational to beintegrated in a generation system.Condusion and future researchWe have shown that decisions about lexical choice,determination of the order of the information, segmentation intosentences and choice of syntactic construction are alldependent one another, the last three amounting to theselection of a discourse structure by means of a discoursegrammar.
As a consequence, a generation system must bebased on a complete interaction between these decisions.
Inthis work, we have been concerned only with the task ofexpressing into natural language a set of information.
Inothers words, we have only dealt with the generation problemof "How to say it?
", and not with the problem "What to say?
".Some authors (cf.
(McGuire 1980) and (Appelt 1982)) haverejected the separation between "What to say" and "How tosay it" on the basis that the issue of "What to say" is notindependent from the lexical choice.
Thus, they have arguedfor generation systems involving interactions betweenconceptual decisions and linguistic ones.
This point is akin toours, and therefore, our model of generation could beextended so as to treat issues such as generating differenttexts according to the hearer and what it is supposed that hewants and/or needs to hear.REFERENCESAppelt, D.E., 1982, Planning Natural-Language Uterrances tosatisfy Multiple Goals, Technical Note 259, SRIInternational, Menlo Park, California.Danlos, L., 1984, Generation automatique de textes en languesnaturelles, These d'Etat, Universit~ de Paris 7.McCawley, J. D., 1971, "Prelexical Syntax" in Report of the22nd annual round table meeting on Linguistics andLanguage Studies, O'Brien ~d., Georgetown UniversityPress.McDonald, D., 1983, "Natural Language Generation as aComputational Problem : an introduction", inComputational Models of Discourse, Brady et Berwickads., MIT Press, Cambridge, Massachussets.McGuire, R., 1980, "Political primaries and words of pain",unpublished manuscript, Yale University.McKeown, K. R., 1982, Generating Natural Language Text inresponse to Questions about database structure, PhDD=ssertation, University of Pensylvania.Schank, R.C., 1975, Conceptual Information Processing, NorthHolland, Amsterdam.ACKNOWLEDGEMENTSI would like to thank Lawrence Birnbaum for many valuablediscussions and suggestions on this paper.504
