QUASI-INDEXICAL REFERENCE IN PROPOSITIONAL SEMANTIC NETWORKSWilliam J. RapaportDepartment of Philosophy, SUNY Fredonia, Fredonia, NY 14063Departmeot of Computer Science, SUNY Buffalo, Buffalo, NY 14260Stuart C. ShapiroDepartment of Computer Science, SUNY Buffalo, Buffalo, NY 14260ABSTRACTWe discuss how a deductive question-answering sys-tem can represent the beliefs or other cognitivestates of users, of other (interacting) systems,and of itself.
In particular, we examine therepresentation of first-person beliefs of others(e.g., the ~/v .~ '~ representation of a user'Abelief that he himself is rich).
Such beliefshave as an essential component "'quasi-indexicalpronouns" (e.g., 'he himself'), and, hence,require for their analysis a method of represent-ing these pronominal constructions and performingvalid inferences with them.
The theoretical jus-tification for the approach to be discussed is therepresentation of nested "'de ditto" beliefs (e.g.,the system's belief that user-I believes thatsystem-2 believes that user-2 is rich).
We dis-cuss a computer implementation of these represen-tations using the Semantic Network Processing Sys-tem (SNePS) and an ATN parser-generator with aquestion-answering capability.I- INTRODUCTIONConsider a deductive knowledge-representationsystem whose data base contains information aboutvarious people (e.g., its users), other (perhapsinteracting) systems, or even itself.
In orderfor the system to learn more about theseentities--to expand its "'knowledge" base--itshould contain information about the beliefs (ordesires, wants, or other cognitive states) ofthese entities, and it should be able to reasonabout them (cf.
Moore 1977, Creary 1979, Wilks andBien 1983, Barnden 1983, and Nilsson 1983: 9).Such a data base constitutes the "knowledge" (moreaccurately, the beliefs) of the system about theseentities and about their beliefs.Among the interrelated issues in knowledgerepresentation that can be raised in such acontext are those of multiple reference and theproper treatment of pronouns.
For instance, is theperson named 'Lucy' whom John believes to be richthe same as the person named 'Lucy' who isbelieved by the system to be young?
How can thesystem (a) represent the person named 'Lucy' whois an object of its own belief without (b) confus-ing her with the person named 'Lucy' who is anobject..of.
John'~ belief, yet (c) be.
..able tomerge its representations of those two peopleif it is later determined that they are the same?A solution to this problem turns out to be a sideeffect of a solution to a subtler problem in pro-nominal reference, namely, the proper treatment ofpronouns occurring within belief-contexts.i.
OUASI-INDICATORSFo l lowing  Casta~eda (1967: 85).
an ind ic , to ti s  a persona l  or  demonst ra t ive  pronoun or adverbused to make a s t r i c t ly  demonst ra t ive  re ference .and a ouasi-indicator is an expression within a'believes-that' context that represents a use ofan indicator by another person.
Consider the fol-lowing statement by person A addressed to personat time ~ and ~lace ~: A says, "I am going tokill you here now.
Person ~, who overheard this,ca l l s  the po l i ce  and says .
"A sa id  .to ~ at  ~ at  Athat  he* was going to k i l l  him* there*  then* . "
Thestarred words are quasi-indicators representinguses by A of the indicators 'I'.
'you'.
'here',and 'now'.
There are two properties (among manyothers) of quasi-indicators that must be takeninto account: (i) They occur only within inten-tional contexts, and (ii) they cannot be replacedsalva veritate by any co-referential expressions.The general question is: "How can we attri-bute indexical references to others?"
(Casta~eda1980: 794).
The specific cases that we are con-cerned with are exemplified in the followingscenario.
Suppose that John has just beenappointed editor of Byte.
but that John does notyet know this.
Further.
suppose that, because ofthe well-publicized salary accompanying the officeof Byte'A editor,(1) John believes that the editor of Byte is rich.And suppose f ina l ly  that .
because of  severe  lossesin the s tock  market .
(2) John believes that he himself is not rich.Suppose that  the system had in fo rmat ion  about eachof the following: John's appointment as editor,Johnts (lack of) knowledge of this appointment.and John's belief about the wealth of the editor.We would not want the system to infer(3) John believes that he* is richbecause (2) is consistent with the system's infor-mation.
The 'he himself' in (2) is a quasi-indicator, for (2) is the sentence that we use toexpress the belief that John would express as 'Iam not rich'.
Someone pointing to John.
saying.65(4) He \[i.e., that man there\] believes that he*is not richcould just as well have said (2).
The first 'he'in (4) is not a quasi-indicator: It occurs outsidethe believes-that context, and it can be replacedby 'John' or by 'the editor of Byte', salva veri-tare.
But the 'he*' in )4) and the 'he himself'in (2) could not be thus replaced by 'the editorof Byte' - given our scenario - even though Johnis the editor of Byte.
And if poor John also suf-fered from amnesia, it could not be replaced by'John' either.~.
REPRESENTATIONSEntities such as the Lucy who is the objectof John's belief are intentional (mental), henceintensional.
(Of.
Frege 1892; Meinong 1904; Cas-ta~eda 1972; Rapaport 1978, 1981.)
Moreover, theentities represented in the data base are theobjects of the ~y .~ '~ beliefs, and, so, are alsointentional, hence intensional.
We represent sen-tences by means of propositional semantic net-works, using the Semantic Network Processing Sys-tem (SNePS; Shapiro 1979), which treats nodes asrepresenting intensional concepts (of.
Woods 1975,Brachman 1977, Maida and Shapiro 1982).We claim that in the absence of priorknowledge of co-referentiality, the entitieswithin belief-contexts should be representedseparately from entities outside the context thatmight be co-referential with them.
Suppose thesystem's beliefs include that a person named'Lucy' is young and that John believes that a(possibly different) person named 'Lucy' is rich.We represent this with the network of Fig.
I.Fig.
I. Lucy is young (m3) and John believes thatsomeone named 'Lucy' is rich (m12).The section of network dominated by nodes m7and m9 is the system's de ditto representation ofJohn's belief.
That is, m9 is the system'~representation of a belief that John might expressby 'Lucy is rich', and it is represented as one ofJohn's beliefs.
Such nodes are considered asbeing in the system's representation of John'si"belief space".
Non-dominated nodes, such as ml4,m12, m15, mS, and m3, are the system's representa-tion of its own belief space (i.e., they can bethought of as the object of an implicit 'I believethat' case-frame; cf.
Casta~eda 1975: 121-22, Kant1787: BI31).If it is later determined that the "two"Lucies are the same, then a node of co-referentiality would be added (m16, in Fig.
2).Fig.
2.
Lucy is young (m3), John believes thatsomeone named 'Lucy' is rich (mlS), and John'sLucy is the system's Lucy (m16).Now consider the case where the system has noinformation about the "content" of John's belief,but does have information that John's belief isabout the ~.7_~/.f.~'E Lucy.
Thus, whereas John mightexpress his belief as, 'Linus's sister is rich',the system would express it as, '(Lucy system) isbelieved by John to be rich' (where '(Lucy sys-tem)' is the system's Lucy).
This is a de rerepresentation of John's belief, and would berepresented by node ml2 of Figure 3.The strategy of separating entities in dif-ferent belief spaces is needed in order to satisfythe two main properties of quasi-indicators.Consider the possible representations of sen-tence (3) in Figure 4 (adapted from Maida andShapiro 1983: 316).
This suffers from three majorproblems.
First, it is ambiguous: It could bethe representation of (3) or of(5) John believes that John is rich.But, as we have seen, (3) and (5) express quitedifferent propositions; thus, they should beseparate items in the data base.Second, Figure 4 cannot represent (5).
Forthen we would have no easy or uniform way torepresent (3) in the case where John does not knowthat he is named 'John': Figure 4 says that theperson (m3) who is named 'John' and who believesm6, believes that that person is rich; and thiswould be false in the amnesia case.66Fig.
3.
The system's young Lucy is believed byJohn to be rich.Fig.
4.
A representation for"John believes that he* is rich"Third, Figure 4 cannot represent (3) either,for it does not adequately represent the quasi-indexical nature of the 'he' in (3): Node m3represents both 'John' and 'he', hence is bothinside and outside the intentional context, con-trary to both of the properties of quasi-indicators.Finally, because of these representationalinadequacies, the system would invalidly "'infer"(6iii) from (6i)-(6ii):(6) (i) John believes that he is rich.
(ii) he = John(iii) John believes that John is rich.simply because premise (6i) would be representedby the same network as conclusion (6iii).Rather, the general pattern for representingsuch sentences is illustrated in Figure 5.
The'he*' in the English sentence is represented bynode m2; its quasi-indexical nature is representedby means of node ml0."IFig.
5.
John believes that he* is rich(m2 is the s~stem's representation of John's"'self-concept , expressed by John as 'I' and bythe system as 'he*')That nodes m2 and m5 must be distinct followsfrom our separation principle.
But, since m2 isthe system's representation of Johnts representa-tion of himself, it must  be within the system'srepresentation of John's belief space; this isaccomplished via nodes ml0 and m9, representingJohn's belief that m2 is his "self-representation".
Node m9, with its EGO arc to m2,represents, roughly, the proposition 'm2 is me'.Our representation of quasi-indexical de sesentences is thus a special case of the generalschema for de ditto representations of belief sen-tences.
When a de se sentence is interpreted dere, it does not contain quasi-indicators, and canbe handled by the general schema for de rerepresentations.
Thus,(7) John is  be l ieved by h imsel f  to be r i chwould be represented by the network of Figure 4.~.
INFERENCESUsing an ATN parser-generator with aquestion-answering capability (based on Shapiro1982), we are implementing a system that parsesEnglish sentences representing beliefs de re or deditto into our semantic-network representations,and that generates appropriate sentences from suchnetworks.I t  a lso  " recogn izes"  the inva l id i ty  of argu-ments such as (5) s ince the premise and conclus ion(when interpreted de d in ,o )  are no longerrepresented by the same network.
When given anappropriate inference rule, however, the system67will treat as valid such inferences as the follow-ing:(81 (i) John believes that the editor of Byte isrich.
(ii) John believes that he* is the editor ofByte.Therefore, (iii) John believes that he* is richIn this case, an appropriate inference rule wouldbe:(9) (?x,y,z,F)\[x believes F(y) b x believes z=y-> x believes FCz)\]In SNePS, in fe rence  ru les  are t reated  as propos i -t ions  represented  by nodes in the network.
Thus,the network for  (9) would be bu i l t  by the SNePSUser Language command given in Figure 6 (c f .Shapiro 1979).
(buildavb ($x $y Sz $F)&ant (build agent *xverb (build lex believe)object (build which *yadj (build lex *F)))&ant (build agent *xverb (find lex believe)object (build equiv *z equiv *y))cq (build agent *xverb (find lex believe)object (build which *zadj (find lex *F))))Fig.
6.
SNePSUL command for building rule (9),for argument (8).~.
ITERATED BELIEF CONTEXTSOur system can a lso handle sentences  invo lv -ing i te ra ted  be l ie f  contexts .
Consider(10) John believes that Mary believes that Lucyis rich.The interpretation of this that we are mostinterested in representing treats (I0) as thesystem's de ditto representation of John's deditto representation of Mary's belief that Lucy isrich.
On this interpretation, we need torepresent the system'~ John--(John system)--thesystem's representation of John'~ Mary--(Mary Johnsystem)--and the system's representation of John'srepresentation of Mary'~ Lucy--(Lucy Mary Johnsystem).
This is done by the network of Figure 7.Such a network is built recursively as fol-lows: The parser maintains a stack of "believers".Each time a belief-sentence is parsed, it is madethe object of a belief of the previous believer inthe stack.
Structure-sharing is used whereverpossible.
Thus,(II) John believes that Mary believes that Lucyis sweetFig.
7.
John believes that Mary believes thatLucy is rich.would modify the network of Figure 7 by adding newbeliefs to (John system)'s belief space and tO(Mary John system)'s belief space, but would usethe same nodes to represent John, Mary, and Lucy.~.
NEW INFORMATIONThe system is  a lso capable of handl ingsequences of new in fo rmat ion .
For ins tance ,  sup-pose that  the system is  given the fo l lowing in fo r -mation at th ree  success ive  t imes:t l :  (121 The system's  Lucy be l ieves  that  Lucy'sLucy is  sweet.t2:  (13) The sys tem's  Lucy is sweet.t3:  (14) The systemIs Lucy = LucyIs Lucy.Then it will build the networks of Figures 8-I0,successively.
At tl (Fig.
8), node m3 representsthe systemts Lucy and m7 represents Lucy's Lucy.At t2 (Fig.
9), m13 is built, representing thesystem's belief that the system's Lucy (who is notyet believed to be--and, indeed, might not be--Lucy's Lucy) is sweet.\[l\] At t3 (Fig.
II), m14 isbuilt, representing the system's new belief thatthere is really only one Lucy.
This is a mergingof the two "'Lucy"-nodes.
From now on, all proper-ties of "either" Lucy will be inherited by the"'other", by means of an inference rule for theEQUIV case-frame (roughly, the indiscernibility ofid___@enticals).It\]We are assumin B that tile system's concept ofsweetness (node me) is also the system's conceptof (Lucy system)'s concept of sweetness.
This as-sumption seems warranted, since all nodes are inthe system's belief space.
If the system had rea-son to believe that its concept of sweetness dif-fered from Lucy's, this could--and would have to--be  represented.68Fig.
8.
Lucy believes that Lucy is sweet.I \Fig.
9.
Lucy believes that Lucy is sweet,and Lucy (the believer) is sweet.i.
FUTURE WORKThere are several directions for futuremodifications.
First, the node-merging mechanismof the EQUIV case-frame with its associated ruleneeds to be generalized: Its current interpreta-tion is co-referentiality; but if the sequence(12)-(14) were embedded in someone else's belief-space, then co-referentiality might be incorrect.What is needed is a notion of "co-refere~tiality-within-a-belief-space'.
The relation of consoct-ation" (Casta~eda 1972) seems to be more appropri-ate.Second, the system needs to be much moreflexible.
Currently, it treats all sentences ofthe form(15) x believes that F(y)as canonically de dicto and all sentences of theform(16) y is believed by x to  be FFig.
I0.
Lucy believes that Lucy is sweet, Lucyis sweet, and the system's Lucy is Lucy's Lucy.as canonically de re.
I n  ordinary conversation,however, both sentences can be understood ineither way, depending on context, including priorbeliefs as well as idiosyncracies of particularpredicates.
For instance, given (I), above, andthe fact that John is the editor of Byte, mostpeople would infer (3).
But given(17) John believes that a l l  identical twins areconceited.
(18) Unknown to John, he is an identical twinmost  peop le  wou ld  not  infer(19) John believes that he* is conceited.Thus, we want to allow the system to make the most"reasonable" interpretations (de re vs. de d?cto)of users' belief-reports, based on prior beliefsand on subject matter, and to modify its initialrepresentation as more information is received.SUNIqARYA deductive knowledge-representation system thatis to be able to reason about the beliefs of cog-nitive agents must have a scheme for representingbeliefs.
This scheme must be able to distinguishamong the "belief spaces" of different agents, asyell as be able to handle "nested belief spaces",i.e., second-order beliefs such as the beliefs ofone agent about the beliefs of another.
We haveshown how a scheme for representing beliefs aseither de re or de d?cto can distinguish the itemsin different belief spa~es (including nestedbelief spaces), yet merge the items on the basisof new information.
This general scheme alsoenables the system to adequately represent sen-tences containing quasi-indicators, while notallowing invalid inferences to be drawn from them.69REFERENCESJ.
A. Barnden, "Intensions as Such: An Outline,"IJCAI-83 (1983)280-286.R.
J. Brachman, "What's in a Concept: StructuralFoundations for Semantic Networks," Interna-tional Journal for Man-Machine Studies9(1977)127-52.Hector-Neri Casta~eda, "Indicators and Quasi-Indicators," ~ Philosoohical Ouarterlv4(1967)85-100.__ ,  "Thinking and the St ructure  of the World"(1972), Ph i losooh ia  4(1974)3-40.
"Identity and Sameness," PhilosoDhia5~1975)121-50.__ ,  "Reference, Reality and Perceptual Fields,"Proceedings and Addresses of the ~er ican~hilosophical Association 53(1980)763-823.L.
G. Creary, "Propositional Attitudes: FregeanRepresentation and Simulative Reasoning,"IJCAI-79 (1979)176-81.Gottlob Frege, "On Sense and Reference" (1892), inTranslations from the Philosophical Writings of~ottlob Fre~e, ed.
by P. Geach and M. Black(Oxford: Basil Blackwell, 1970): 56-78.Immanuel Kant, Critique of Pure Reason, 2nd ed.
(1787), trans.
N. Kemp Smith (New York: St.Martin's Press, 1929).Anthony S. Maida and Stuart C. Shapiro, "Inten-sional Concepts in Propositional Semantic Net-works."
Cognit ive Science 6(1982)291-330.Alexius Meinong, -Ueber Gegenstandstheorie"(1904), in Alexius Meinon~ Gesamtaus~ahe, Vol.II, ed.
R. Haller (Graz, Austria: AkademischeDruck- u. Verlagsanstalt, 1971): 481-535.English translation in R. Chisholm (ed.
), Real-ism and the Background of Phenomenolo~y (NewYork: Free Press, 1960): 76-117.R.
C. Moore, "'Reasoning about Knowledge andAction," IJCAI-77 (1977)223-27.Nils J. Nilsson, "Artificial Intelligence Preparesfor 2001," AI Ma~azine 4.4(Winter 1983)7-14.William J. Rapaport, "Meinongian Theories and aRussellian Paradox," NoGs 12(1978)153-80;errata, 13(1979)125.__ ,  "How to Make the World Fit Our Language: AnEssay in Meinongian Semantics," Grazer Philoso-nhische Studien 14(1981)I-21.Stuart C. Shapiro, "The SNePS Semantic NetworkProcessing System," in N. V. Findler (ed.
),Associative Networks (New York: Academic Press,1979): 179-203.__ ,  "Generalized Augmented Transition NetworkGrammars For Generation From Semantic Networks,"~ Journal  of ~ Linguistics8(1982)12-25.Yorick Wilks and Janusz Bien, "Beliefs, Points ofView, and Multiple Environments," Cognitive Sci-ence 7(1983)95-119.William A.
Woods, "'What's in a Link: The Semanticsof Semantic Networks," in D. G. Bobrow and A. M.Collins (eds.
), Reuresentation and ~(New York: Academic Press, 1975): 35-79.70
