DESIGN OF A MACHINE TRANSLATION SYST~4 FOR A SUBIASK~A(~Beat Bu~,  Susan Warwick, Patrick ShannDalle Molle Institute for Semantic and Cognitive StudiesUniversity of GenevaSwitzerlandABSTRACTThis paper describes the design of a prototypemachine translation system for a sublanguage ofjob advertis~nents.
The design is based on the hy-pothesis that specialized linguistic subsystems mayrequire special crmputational treatment and thattherefore a relatively shallow analysis of the textmay be sufficient for automatic translation of thesublanguage.
This hypothesis and the desire to mi-nimize computation in the transfer phase has led tothe adoption of a flat tree representation of thelinguistic data.1.
INTRODUCTIONThe most prcraising results in computationallinguistics and specifically in Machine Translation(MT) have been obtained where applications werelimited to languages for special purposes and torestricted text types (Kittredge, Lehrberger, 1982).In light of these prospects, the prototype MT sys-tem described below I should be seen as an experi-ment in the ecnputational trea~nent of a particularsublanguage.
The project is meant to serve both asa didactic tool and as a vehicle for research inMT.
The development of a large-scale operationalsystem is not envisaged at present.
The followingresearch objectives have been defined for thisproject:- to establish linguistic specifications of thesublanguage as a basis for automatic processing;- to develop translation algorithms tailored to acc~putational treatment of the sublanguage.The emphasis of the research lies in definingthe depth of linguistic analysis necessary to ade-quately treat the ccrmplexity of the text type witha view to acceptable machine translation.
It is theconjecture of our research group that, within theparticular sublanguage defined by our corpus, ac-ceptable translation does not necessarily depend onstandard linguistic structural analysis but can beobtained with a relatively shallow analysis.
Thus,as a working hypothesis, the principle of 'flattrees' has been adopted for the representation ofthe linguistic data.
Flat trees, as opposed to deeptrees, only partially reflect the dependency strucn.1 Project sponsored by the Swiss government.ture obtained by a traditional IC-analysis.
Theadoption of flat trees goes hand in hand with thefurther hypothesis that the sublanguage can betranslated mechanically with only minimal semm~ticanalysis similarly to the TAUM-M~'I%0 system(Chevalier, et al, 1978).2.
THE SUBLAN(ETAGEThe corpus is taken from a weekly publicationby the Swiss goverrm~nt announcing federal jobopenings.
The wordload of this publication amountsto ca.
I0,000 words per week; however, many of theadvertisements are carried for several weeks.
Alljob adds are published in the three national lan-guages: German, French and Italian, with Germanusually serving as the source language (SL),French and Italian as the target language (TL).The study is hence based on a collection of textsalready translated by human translators.
The adsare grouped according to profession, e.g.
academic,technical, administrative, etc.
At present, thecorpus is limited to the domain of administrativepositions, an example of which is given in figu-re I.Verwa l tungsbeamt inFonct ionna i re  d 'admin is t ra t ionFunzionar ia  ammin is t ra t ivaFOhren des Sekretadates eines Sektionschefs.
Ausfertigen yonKorrespondenzen und 8erichten nach Diktat und Vorlage indeutscher, franz6sischer und englischer Sprache, Abgeschlos-sene kaufm~nnische Lehre oder Handelsschulbildung, Berufs-erfahrung erwOnscht, Sprachen: Deutsch, Franz6sisch.
Eng-Iisch in Wort und Schrift.
Italienisch und/oder Spanisch er-w0nscht.Diriger le secr(~tariat d'un chef de section.
Dactylographier dela correspondance allemande, franqaise et anglaise et des rap-ports sous dictee ou d'apr@s manuscrits.
Certificat d'ernployeede commerce ou dipl6me d'une ecole de commerce, Exp@-rience professionnelle d@sirbe.
Langues: le fran~:ais, I'altemandet I'anglais parles et ~crits.
Connaissances de I'italien ou deI'espagnol, voire des deux souhaitees.Dirigere il segretariato di un capo sezione.
Stesura di corri-spondenza e rapporti secondo dettato o manoscritto.
Tirociniocommerciale o formazione commerciale.
Pratica pluriennale.Lingue: tedesco, francese, inglese (orale e seritto).
Buone no-zioni deil'itahano e/o dello spagnolo auspicate.Figure i. Advertisement for an administrativeposition ("Die Stelle", 1981).334The corpus exhibits many of the textual fea-tures generally used to characterize a sublanguage,i.e.
(i) limited subject matter, (ii) lexical andsyntactic restrictions, and (iii) high frequencyof certain constructions.
AS can be seen from theexample, the style of the sublanguage is distin-guished by cc~plex nominal dependencies with va-rious levels of coordination.
In addition, mostsentences are inoc~lete in that they consist of aseries of nominal phrases and do not oontain a m~verb; no relative phrases nor dependent clausesoccur.
The inportance of nominal constituents isreflected in the statistics of the German texts:over 55% of the words in the corpus are nouns,11% adjectives, 11% prepositions, 17% conjunctions ;verbs only make up 1% of the corpus.
A ccr~parisonwith the statistics of the French and Italiantranslations reveal approximately the sane distri-bution except for infinitival venbs.
The higherfrequency of verbs in French and Italian is due toa preference for infinitival phrases in place ofdeverbal nominal constructions.
Apart from thisdifference, the major textual characteristicscarry over from source to target sublanguage there-by facilitating mechanical translation.3.
BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE SYb-i~4Modem transfer-based MT systems are based onthe following design principles : (i) modularity,e.g.
separation of linguistic data and algorithms,(ii) multilinguality i.e.
independent analysis,transfer, and generation phases, (iii) formalizedspecification of the linguistic model (Hutchins,1982).
Although only a prototype, the system was?
designed in accordance with these considerations.As to modularity, the software used is a gene-ral purpose rule-based transducer especially deve-loped for MT (Shann, Cod%ard, 1984).
This softwaretool not only allows for the separation of dataand algorithms but also provides great flexibilityin the organization of grammars and subgrammars,and in the control of the cc~putational processesapplied to them.As a multilingual system it is not directlyoriented towards any specific language pair; thes~ne Gem1~n analysis module serves as input forthe German-French as well as the German-Italiantransfer module.
Separate French and Italian gene-ration modules use only language specific knowledgeto produce the final translation.
However, the Ger-man analysis is indirectly influenced by targetlanguage considerations: the interface structurebetween analysis and transfer was defined to takeadvantage of the similarities between the threelanguages and to accommodate the differences.4.
L~IST IC  APPBDACH: MINIMAL BUT SUFFICIENTDEPTHWith the sublanguage investigated displayingrestricted syntactic structures within a limitedsemantic dcmain, a grammar specifically tailored tothese job advertisements can be defined.
Moreover,the linear series of nominal phrases as well asthe almost one-to-one lexical equivalences foundin the SL and TL texts suggest that a shallow ana-lysis without a semantic component is sufficientfor adequate translation.
The flat tree represen-tation resulting from such a minimal depth ~;Tp~oachdoes not make any claim to linguistic generaliza-bility for purposes other than the translation ofthis particular sublanguage.4.1 Ccmputational considerationsIn a transfer-based MT system, actual trans-lation takes place in transfer and can be descri-bed as the ocr~putaticnal manipulation of treestructures.
In the absenoe of any formal theory oftranslation for MT, and given the relatively well-developed analysis techniques currently available,a major concern in Mr research is to minimize theo~n~station neoessazy in the transfer phase.
Aflat tree representation provides one way of sim-plifying the structures to be processed; an inter-faoe representation defined to acocmmodate bothSL and TL structures in the same manner, thusavoiding tree structure manipulation, is yet ano-ther means.
The representation of the linguisticdata in this system is a direct result of thesetwo considerations.4.2 Flat treesThe fact that the linearity of the surfacestructure constituents carries o~r  from SL to theTLs justifies the adoption of a minimal depth ana-lysis.
The analysis is restricted to the identifi-cation of the phrasal constituents and their inter-nal structure; dependencies holding between consti-tuents are only partially ccr~puted.
Thus, theinterface structure resulting from analysis andserving as input to transfer does not reflect alinguistically correct dependency structure.Instead, the IS respects the linear surface orderof the constituents (with the exception of predi-cate groups, see below) in a flat tree represen-tation.In a flat tree, the major phrasal consti-tuents, in particular the prepositional phrases,are not attached at the node from which they de-pend linguistically but at specified nodes higherup in the tree.
Schematically, the differencescan be illustrated as follows:NP NPN PP NP pp pp\ ti~  NFig.
2.
Standard IC-tree vs. Flat treeThe flat tree representation applies to all threemjor  phrasal constituents defined for this cor-pus: (i) nominal phrases proper, (ii) deverbal335ncminal phrases, and (iii) verbal phrases.
Samplestaken from the oorpus are given below to illustrateeach of the three constituent structures.
(i) Ncminal phrases proper b~ve a standard nounphrase as their head, possibly followed by a linearsequence of prepositional phrases.
(G~ stands forboth standard NPs and PPs.
)GN ~Kauf~naennische mit in derAusbildung Erfahrung Verwaltung(ii) Deverbal nominal phrases have a deverbal nounas their head, followed by a linear sequence of GNs.GDEVGN (deverbal) GN GNSchreiben yon nachTexten Manuskrlpt(iii) Verbal phrases have a predicate as their head,followed by a linear sequence of GNs.
(F~ enccrn-passes predicative participles, predicative adjec-tives, and infinitival predicates; the few finiteverbs in the corpus (0.4%) are not treated.
)GR~DPRED GN G~erwuenscht Erfahr%ulg in derDatenverarbeitung("Erfahrung in der Datenverarbeitung erwuenscht")4.3 Normalized tree structuresIn order to further minimize manipulation ofstructure in transfer, the interface representationis also normalized for two impo~t  categories inthe sublanguage, narely deverbal ncminal phrases(GDEV) and noun and prepositional phrases (~N).
Thestructures are defined such that they remain validfor both the source and target language.4.3.1 Devenbal nominal phrasesA marked stylistic difference between the SLand the TLs occurring with high frequency in thecorpus is the translation of a German deverbal nouninto an infinitive in French and Italian.
With thedeverbal noun in Gennan usually serving as the headof a ccmplex D~minal structure with several ccsple-ments, the translation of the noun into an inf in i -tive in the target language changes the type ofcc~plement structure accordingly.
The completelinearization of the deverbal crmplements providesa format for acccmrcdating the target languageinfinitival construction aimed at in translation.Structural transfer is thus reduced to renamingthe nodes; the normalized tree structure remainsthe same, as can be seen in the SL and TL repre-sentations shown below.GDEVGN ~ GNUeberwachen der hinsichtlichBestellungen MateriallieferungenFig.
3.
SL (German) deverbal ncminal phraseanalysis.GPREDPRED GN G~Surveiller les quant a laoc~mandes livraison du materielFig.
4.
Equivalent TL (French) verbal phraseanalysis.4.3.2 Noun ~hrases and prepositional phrasesCertain noun phrases in German (e.g.
genetiveattributes) are translated into prepositionalphrases in French and Italian.
In order to avoidstructural transfer of noun phrases into preposi-tional phrases and vice-versa, a normalized formfor noun phrases has been defined which reservesa position in the tree for prepositions.
For stan-dard noun phrases a special value (NIL) has beendefined to fill the empty preposition slot.
There-fore, in the transfer phase, a translation from anoun Dhrase to a prepositional phrase or vice-versa is merely a change in the value of the pre-positional slot without any change in the treestructure.PREP N ART GN ...Fig.
5.
Example of the normalized form forNPs and PPs.4.4 CONSIDERATIONS FOR TRANSLATIONThe goal of the system, and perhaps of MT ingeneral, has to be to carry over the informationcontent from SL to TL, to produce output acceptable336in terms of TL conventions, and to respect thestyle of the text type.
It seems that treating awell-defined sublanguage enhances the possibili-ties for an Mr system to answer these requirements.In fact, the sublanguage itself suggests possiblestrategies for dealing with some of the classicaltranslation problems in Mr such as (i) lexicalanbiguity, (2) translation of prepositions, and(3) treatment of coordination.4.4.1 Lex i~ ip~lemsTwo well-known lexical problems in computatio-nal linguistics are homograph resolution and poly-semy disambiguaticn.
Given the small number ofpossible syntactic structures in the sublanguage,the few homographs found in the corpus do not pre-sent any problems for analysis.
In turn, the limi-ted s~mantic danain of the sublanguage cc~pletelyeliminates multiple word senses so that the trans-fer of lexical meanings is basically a one-to-onemapping.
Therefore, with the nouns serving as themajor carriers of the textual meaning, lexicaltransfer ensures that the information content ofthe text is carried over.4.4.2 Translation of prepositionsThe fact that the types of nouns occurring inthe sublanguage are restricted and repetitive andthat the possible prepositions commanded by anygiven noun is small in nt~nber (max.
3 in the cor-pus) allows the adoption of a limited noun-focusedapproach for the translation of prepositions.
Insuch an approach, it is the particular noun ornoun class rather than general s~mantic featuresthat determine the translation of prepositions.At present, the info~nation relevant to correcttranslation of prepositions is attached to indi-vidual noun entries in the transfer dictionary;semantic noun subclassification similar to othersublanguage research (Sager, 1982) is beinginvestigated.4.4.3 CoordinationWith SL and TLs exhibiting parallel surfacesyntactic structure, and with inherent ambiguitiesof scope therefore carrying over, analysis of co-ordination remains shallow.
Conjunctions and in-trasentential punctuation are defined functionallyas coordinators to yield, in keeping with the flattree representation, a structure such as the oneshown below.PHO00RD G~ O00RD GNSprachen : Deutsch und Englisch in Wortund Schri ftFig.
6.
Coordinated structure at sentence level.5.
CONCLUSIONThe evidence available to-date seem~ to showthat, for the particular sublanguage dealt with,correct translation is feasible under the hypo-theses described in this paper.
The non-generali-zability of such an approach is quite evident;however, the fact that such a 'minimal depth' ap-proach semns to work for this particular sublan-guage gives substance to the impression that spe-cialized linguistic subsystems differ quitesharply, both in complexity and linguistic fea-tures, frc~ the standard language and may there-fore require special computational treatment.P4~ENCESChevalier et al T/K94-~'I'bO, Description du sys-t/~re.
Universit~ de Montreal, 1978.EidgenSssisches Personalamt (ed.).
Die Stelle.Stellenzeiger des Bundes.
No.
21, 1981.Gr i s t ,  R., Hirsdnman, L. and Frieclman, C."Natural Language Interfaces Using LimitedSemantic Information."
Proc.
9th InternationalConference on Computational Linguistics, 1982.Hutchins, W.J.
"Tne Evolution of Madline Transla-tion Systems."
In: Lawson, V.
(ed.
), PracticalExperience of Madnine Translation, Amsterdam,N.Y., Oxford, 1982.Kittredge, R., Lehrberger, J.
(eds.).
Sublangua-@es, Studies of Lanuuage in Restricted Do-mai'ns, Berlin, N.Y., 1982.Sager, N. "Syntactic Formatting of Science Infor-mation."
In: Kittredge, Lehrburger, 1982.Shann, P., Cochard, J.L.
"GIT : A General Trans-ducer for Teaduing Ccmputational Linguistics.
"COLING Ccmmunication, 1984.337
