CONVEYING IMPL IC IT  CONTENT IN  NARRATIVE  SUMMARW~SMalcolm E. Cook, Wendy G. Lehnert, David D. ~ dDepartment of Computer and Information ScienceUniversity of MassachusettsAmherst, Massachusetts 01003ABSTRACTOne of the key characteristics of any summary is that itmust be concise.
To achieve this the content of thesummary (1) must be focused on the key events, and (2)should leave out any information that she audience caninfer on their own.
We have recently begun a project onsummarizing simple narrative stories.
In our approach, weassume that the focus of the story has already beendetermined and is explicitly given in the story's lung-termrepresentation; we concentrate instead on how one can planwhat inferences an audience will be able to make whenthey read a summary.
Our conduglon is that one shouldthink about inferences as following from the audience'srecognition of the central concepts in the story's plot, andthen plan the textual structure of the ~mm~'y so as goreinforce that recognition.BACKGROUNDThis research builds on our previous work on narrativestructure and generation.
We are using Plot Units \[Lchnert1981\] to represent he structure of the ori~nal narrative,and use Mumble \[McDonald 1983\] to do the linguisticrealiTAtion.
To connect these two facilities we have a newinterface and a new text plannin~ ?omponeng namedPlot units are a technique for organizing the conceptualrepresentation of a narrative in such a way that thetopological structure of the representation directly indicateswhich events are central to the story and which areperipheral.
A graph of connected plot units is constructedfor a story as it is understood, based on the recognition ofgoal-oriented behavior by the characters and their affectivereactions to events.
Plot units summarize larger-scalerelationships among explicit and implicit events in the story,and are oriented toward long term recall rather thanappreciation of story style or specific wording.Mumble is a "realization" module for languagegeneration; it takes a stream of output from a text plannerand incrementally produces fluent, cohesive En~ligh text inaccordance with the planner's spec/ficatious.
The plannerdecides what information should be imparted and most ofits rhetorical features; Mumble filters those decis/ons inaccordance with grammatical constraints, handles syntax andmorphology, and performs the "smoothing" operations thatare required by the discourse context in which theinformation aIvears.1.
This research was supported in part by the NationalScience Foundation under contracts IST-8217502 andIST-8104984, and in part by the Office of Naval Researchunder coatract N00014.E3-K-0~0.Precis stands between the plot unit graph and Mumble.h has been under development for a only short time andthe ultimate form that its architecture will take is not yetfixed.
We have so far been working bottom up,experimenting with different ways to combine thetexts contributed by individual units and affect states, andtrying to understand the consequences of the alternatives.We report here on one key "tactical" problem in narrativesummarization which we refer to as conceptual ell~sis,omitting those events from a summary that we expect anaudience to be able to infer on their own, and reinforcingthat inference through a judicious choice of textual form.THE Nggn FOR CONCEPTUAL gLLlWb'ISEver since the original work by Bartlett, researchers haveappreciated that people who are remembering a story sometime after they have heard it typically fail to distinguishbetween events that were explicitly stated in the stray andthroe that they only inferred while reading it.
Present daystory understaDding systems act in a ~imilar way bymalntainin~ Oilily a lingie conceptual record of what theyhave understood regardless of its murte \[Jcehi &Weischedel 1977, Graemer 1980, Dyer 1983\].
Since oursummarization process starts from the conceptualrepresentation of the story rather than the text itself, it toowill be unable to make this distinction.This theory of memory has two consequences.
One isthat any decisions about what constituted the crux or pointof the story must have been made at comprehension timerather than summarization time.
This is one of thepurposes of a plot unit ~tat iun .
The other is thatwe now need to deliberately recalculate what informationshould be explicit in our summary and what should be leftfor the audience to infer; were this not done, thesuperfluous information in the summary would make itsound quite unnatural-as though it were being told by aperson from a different society who did not have anycommonsen~ understanding of the social context in whichthe story was set.
How the explicit versus left-to-inferencecalculation turns out will vary with the tmmmary: the tamestory can be summarized or retold in diffeie~.t waysdepending on which character's point of view is taken orwhich events are emphasized.
The plot unit graph isneutral on this question, and it will be an important partof what we do next in this research.Decisions about conceptual ellipsis are made prior to anyof the linguistic decim'uns about form; they are howeverlinked to those later decim'ons ince some linguistic formswill be more effective than others in indicating to theaudience that an inference is intended.
Certain markedchoices of form will suggest to the reader that particularimplications were ~'m the mind of the writer" at the timeof generation.
The conceptual decm'ons are thus the source5of clependencies that must be carried forward to the pointwhere the text-form decis/ens will be made in order thatthe i~ht re~liTntio nt are chOOSe~.
By the lalne tokeD therewill also be dependencies percolating back to the conceptualellipsis decisions indicating what alternative realizations areactually available in a given case and thus whether apartienlar implication can be adequately supported by theinformation that is included and the way it is phrased.A N ~The followin8 simple stray will demomarate the gene_"alphenomenou.THE COMSYS STORYJohn and Mike were campot/ng for  the same job atIBM.
John got the job and Mike derided to stwn Msown consulting f~m, COMSgS.
W~hin three years,COMSg$ was flourfsMn&.
By that time, John hadbecome dissatisfied wfth IBM so he asked Mike for ajob.
M~te spU~d~y turned ~n down.A analysis of this text in terms of plot unJet has"Competition" as a central unit in the graph, which wouldmake it a candidate bash for a snmmaEy of the story.
Allcompetition unim have this pattern:COMPETITIONAgent1 Ageat2M1M2+Underlying this levd of representation are the actualgoals and events experieaced by the two charate~ In anycompetitim unit, we have:M1 : geal(agentl~xtll)M2 : goa l (ageat2~2)+ : m_,y~_,goall,eventl): failme(gml2~-veat2)with the additional constraints:Cl  : event1 = evenl2C2 : goall and gml2 cannot boch be realized.
(Note that in C1 the positive and negative acuudizatiousare actually the mine event but from the point of view oftwo different charaeten.
)In the COMSYS story the competition is between Johnand Mike over who will get a particular job at IBM.
Theinstanfiatiou of the Competition unit in this story is:M1 : A-goall (John has-role #employee in M-job1(where ~employer = raM)M2 : A-goal2 (Mike hu-role ~-mployee in M-JOb1where ~employer = IBM)+ : m___o~__.A-goall , gm~IBMjohn))- : fallm~A-guai2 , not($~re(WM,Mike)))wherecl : eventl = event2 = hire(IBM,/ohn)?2 : A-goall and A-goal2 cannot both be realized.At the time of this writing, Precis can specify any ofthe following texts for this instantiation of the Competitionunit, prefeie~ces di lated by conceptual ellips~ aside.
(Discourse fluency effects inch as verb phrase deletion orprouominalizatiou are put in by Mumble as it is realizingPre~ ?
wecification.
)(a) "John wanted to work for IBM and so did Mike.
Theyhired John and did not hire Mike.
"Co) "Both John and Mike wanted to work for IBM, butthey hired John.
"(c) "Mike wanted to work for IBM, but they hired John.
nThese three choices vary according to how much of thecontent of the Competition unit they explicitly express.Choice A includes each of the four aHect states (MI, M2,+, .
), smoothed somewhat by the recognition that MI andM2 share the same predicate.
The very simplest choice.onethat did not ?apreu that commonality in its textualstructure, e.g.
"John wanted to work for IBM.
Mike wantedto work for IBM.
They Mred John and did not hire Mike.
'-iscotnpletely nnnatural; people wouldn't say it.
This minimallevel of implicit information that the textual m'uctum mustcarry is ~.+dingiy  not even made Prech" respom/bllity, butis in o*~d carried out automatically within Mumble.
Thealternative realization of this commonality, ruing a coujolnedsubject rather than verb phrase deletion, is taken to be ada:ba'ou and is not de.berated over by Pro:is.If we begin to include the constraints that accompanythe Competltion Unit (Cl Slid C~) eXplicitiy in the tmmmagythen we can leave out mote of the affect states asin/erable.
In choice B we make use of the first comgralnt,iJ~.
that the pmitive and the negative acaualizations areconsequences of the same event, to enable the omit 'on of~ellg2, nog(hlgt~MlkeJ\]~M)), ~ the tegg of the lmmm~l~by dropping the phrase "they did not ~re Mike".In our present vernon of choice B there is.no structuralindicator of the constraint.
It is probably no coincidena~.then that the text for B rounds a little odd-readersnn f~ with the orj~nal story wi\[!
not really understandwhat the but is mppouxl to be communicating until they gofurther and make the deduction that there must oaly havebeen one job available.
A better venion of B wouldprobably be: "Both John and Mike wanted to work for IBM,bus they f~ly hired John", with the only acting as an explicitaruetural indicator of the information in the constraints.This addition can probably be licensed as a cotueque~e ofthe second constraint hat only one of the two goals can berealized.
At the time of this writing we do not yet havean adequately general mechanism for makingobservation and incorporating the on/y, so we have notincluded it among Precis" choices.It is intriguing that choice c, "Mike wanted to work forIBM, but they hired John", is probably the best of the threechoices even though it requires the audience to do the mostinferencing.
In c we have omitted state Ml-that Johnwanted to work for IBM-yet the audience is able torecover this information quite easily given the presence ofthe but.
Given the ease with which choice c is undemoud,we are led to the suggestion that there may be a verygeneral "template" being recognized here-that choice c isseen by an audience as an instance of the pattern:<expression of agent A's goal>,but <.realization of agent B's goal>and that this template alwa~ carries with it the inferencethat the two goals must be incompatible and therefore A'sgoal has not be satisfied.Note that here again the choice would be improved byincluding an explicit lexical indication of the constraint:"Mike wanted to work for  IBM, but they hired John ~nstead".We expect that most instances of these "rhetorical markers"in texts will turn out to be indicators of constraint-levclinformation akin to our present cases, which raises theintriguing possibility that a general theory of how they areused might arise out of this kind of work in generation.SUMMARYCuiie,,tly, we are working with two programs.
PUGG(Plot Unit Graph Generator) operates on an affect-staterepresentation of a story, and produces a graph or networkof plot units that act as pointers to the o~e of theconceptual representation of the input story and organizeshow it will be '~n~sented" to the program that plans thetext of the summary, Precis.
Precis is in the early stagesof its development and so far can only use a single, coreplot unit from the graph as the basis of the summ~'y ofthe story.Precis works at the interface between purely conceptumland purely linguistic concideratiens as it makes its planningdecisions.
It chooses from a set of alternative specificationsfor the summary that vary according to which of theelements of the plot unit are included and which left to beinferred by the audience once they recognize the story as acase of competition.
Precis can state the three alternativechoices described above (and a few other sets like them),and Mumble can take those specifications and produce theindicated texts.
However we do not as yet have anygeneral mechanism for deciding which choice to prefer overthe others.
Perhaps such a decision mechanism will becomeapparent once these single unit summaries are embedded ina larger context, or possibly there is no reasonable basis fordecision without more knowledge of the purpose of thesummary or the ability of a particular audience to makethese kinds of inferences (one might have to talk quitedifferently to young children for exam#e).
In futu~ workwe also hope to be able to work out a ~ basis forplanning the use of infe~e~,ce-directing words like on/y or/nstead.REFERENCESDyer, M. (1983) In~kTm Undermmd~:  A Compu~rModel of Integrated Proesss~ for NarrativeComprehemien, Cambridge, Mass.
: M1T Press.Graemer, A.fi c. (1981) Prose Comprehension Beyond theWord New York, N.Y.: Springer.Verlag.Joshi, A.K., and Woischedel (1977) Computation of asubclass of inferences: Presupposition and EntAilment, inAm J. of Comp.
Lingulst~Lehnert, W. (1982) Plot Units: A Narrative SummarizationStrategy, in Lehnert, W. and Ringle, M.
0Eds.
), Strategiesfor Natural Language Prmaush~, Hilisdale, NJ.
:Lawrence Erlbeum Associates.Lehnert, W. (1983) "Narrative Complexity Based onSummarization Algorithms," ~ of the SeventhInternatlomd Joint Canf~ on Art/fkal ~ ,Karisruhe, Germany.McDonald, D. (1983) "National Language Generation as aComputatienal Problem - an Introduction" in Brady, M.and Berwick, R.
(Eds.)
Computatiomd Models ofDiscourse, Cambridge, Mass.
: MIT Press.McDonald, D. (1982) "~)escription Directed Control: itsImplications for Natural Language Generation", inCercone (ed.)
Computational IJn_maistics, Dublin:Pergamon Press.
