From HOPE en I'ESPERANCEOn the Role of Computational Neurolinguistics in Cross-Language Studies IHelen M. GigleyDepartment of Computer ScienceUniversity of New HampshireDurham, NH 03824ABSTRACTComputational neurolinguistics (CN) is anapproach to computational l inguistics which in-cludes neurally-motivated constraints in thedesign of models of natural language processing.Furthermore, the knowledge representations in-cluded in such models must be supported withdocumented behaviorial ev~ce,  normal and patho-logical.This paper wi l l  discuss the contribution ofCN models to ~the understanding of l inguist ic"competence" within recent research efforts toadapt HOPE (Gigley 1981; 1982a; 1982b; 1982c;1983a), an implemented CN model for "under-standing" English to I'ESPERANCE, one which "un-derstands" French.I.
INTRODUCTIONComputational Neurolinguistics (CN) incorpor-ates in i t ia l  assumptions about language processingthat are often indirectly referenced in othercomputational approaches to language study.
Theseassumptions focus on neural-like computationalmechanisms (Ballard 1982; Feldman 1981; Gigley,1982a; 1982b; 1983a; McClelland and Rumelhart,1981) which subserve language behavior (Lavoreland Gigley, 1983).Furthermore, CN approaches to differentaspects of language processing include extensiveuse of behavioral data.
Research exists withinthe CN paradigm along various behaviorally defineddimensions.
These are at the level of phoneticspeech studies that simulate speech errors (Le-cours and Lhermitte, 1969; Reggia and Sanjeev,1984), a model of aphasic language production,JARGONAUT, (Lavorel, 1982), as well as withinlesionable models at a neural network level.These latter models simulate association, dis-crimination, and recognition of patterns employingassociative network models that have been tuned orhave adaptively learned to relate certain dis-criminations (Gordon, 1982; Wood, 1978; 1980).IThe research described in this paper was sup-ported by an NIH-CNRS research exchange grantentitled "Computational Neurolinguistics" and wasundertaken at Laboratoire de NeuropsychologieExp~rimentale, INSERM-Unit~ 94, BRON, France.There is much philosophical and l inguist icdiscussion of the nature of the representationsthat exist in humans and form the basis of ourcognitive function.
We wi l l  not present thedebate here, but instead wi l l  claim that the CNmodels we build include the assumption that theinternal representation of concepts, words, andphonemes are given by the overall activation stateof the "network" representation within the systemat a moment in time.
Furthermore, this means thatunless activations are interpreted externally (inour case by labels so that we can talk aboutthem), they in and of themselves reflect the"mental" representation.To this end, CN models present time-synchronized snapshots of an interactive, paral-le l ,  distributed process that are interpreted torepresent hierarchies of l inguist ic  knowledge thatcan be distinguished during processing, such as arecognized word, a grammatical interaction, oreven a disambiguated meaning.Before turning to our efforts to adapt aworking implementation within the CN paradigm,HOPE, into one that can process French with equalfac i l i ty ,  I'ESPERANCE, we wi l l  present necessafybackground to i l lustrate why focusing on the"process" of language, as i t  can exist, based onour current understanding of brain function,contributes signif icantly to our increased under-standing of representations which have been de-fined within l inguistics, psycholinguistics,neurolinguistics, and AI approaches to languagestudy.2.
FOCUS ON PROCESSIn developing CN models, the claim is that byfocusing on process independently from repre-sentation, we gain several perspectives that areunattainable from other more usual approaches.
CNmodels include processing which is neurallyplausible.
Language is seen as the behavioralresult  of an interact ive,  time-dependent process.This frees us from pre-specifying either a l l"correct" l ingu is t i c  poss ib i l i t i es  for constraintsat isfact ion at a l l  levels of representation, ora l l  possible errors or recognized omissions as inmore f lex ib le  approaches (Hayes and Mouradian,1981; Kwasny and Sondheimer, 1981; Lehnert, Dyer,Johnson, Yong, and Hurley, 1983; Weischeidel andBlack, 1980).452We uti l ize what has been discovered by theseother approaches to be the most l ikely, mostplausible set of relevant features to tune our"normal" model.
Through interconnections at ametalinguistic level, between recognized phoneticword representations, grammatical aspects ofmeaning, and specific referential meaning fordisambiguated words, CN models must tune theprocess so that asynchronously activated in-stantiations at these interpretable levels whichresult from local contextual recognition achievethe same behavioral results that are definedwithin different methodologies.
In other words,we use the A!
preconditions or ATN states with asmuch corroboration f rom psychological, andlinguistic studies as is available to tune ourmodels for "normal" processing.This provides an extremely valuable means ofstudying processing effects in neurally motivated"lesion" states that are consistent within oursystem, and completely defined over our model ofstudy in a mathematical sense.
This has beendiscussed in detail elsewhere in Gigley (1982b;1983a; 1983b), and Gigley and Duffy (1982) andwil l  not be repeated here.3.
PROCESSING ASSUMPTIONS IN HOPEHOPE is not an acronym but was chosen as thename of the system based on the legend ofPandora's box.
While raising many questions oflanguage within a new computational perspective,i t  provides a f i rst  attempt to answer them aswell.The system presents an in i t ia l  attempt tointegrate AI and brain theory, BT, on two levels,behaviorally and within processing.
HOPE usesconcepts from cellular neurophysiology to defineits control.
Information in HOPE is encoded in ahierarchical graph which permits extensiveambiquity.For complete detail of the model with exam-ples in "normal" and "lesioned" states the inter-ested reader is referred to Gigley (1982a; 1982b;1983a).
We wil l  only highlight the processinghere.HOPE stresses the process of natural languageby incorporating a neurally plausible control thatis internal to the processing mechanism.
There isno external evaluation made to decide what happensnext.
At each process time interval, there aresix types of serial-order process that can occurand affect the state of the process.
The mostimportant aspect of the control is that all  of theserial order computations can occur simultaneouslyand affect any information that has been definedin the model.Similar control philosophies have been em-ployed in letter perception by McClelland andRumelhart (1981), and in the connectionisttheories applied to visual processing and languageparsing (Ballard, 1982; Cottrell, 1983; Feldman,1982; Small, Cottrell, and Shastri, 1982).The major difference in the control in HOPEis that the control process can be "lesioned" bymodifying parameter settings relative to their"normal" settings to define hypothesized causes ofpathological anguage behavior.
Example "lesions"are changes in memory decay, elimination of aknowledge type, and slowing of processing relativeto on-line word recognition.Studying the results of such "lesions" andtheir occurrence or not in pathological behavioris used to further understanding of the behaviorand to suggest evolutionary changes in the modelto better its approximation to language process.Information is presented at a phonologicallevel as phonetic representations of words, at aword m~aning level as multiple pairs of designedsyntactic category types and orthographic spellingassociates, within grammar, and as a pragmaticinterpretation.Each piece of information is a thresholdingdevice with memory.
I t  has an activity value,in i t ia l l y  at a resting state, that is modifiedover time depending on the input, interconnectionsto other information, and an automatic activitydecay scheme.
In addition, the decay scheme isbased on the state of the information, whether i thas reached threshold and fired or not.Activity is propagated in a fixed sense toall  aspects of the meaning of words that are"connected" by spreading activation.
(Collins andLoftus, 1975; Quillian, 1980/73; Small, Cottrell,and Shastri, 1982; Cottrell, 1983).
Simultan-eously, information interacts asynchronously dueto threshold firing.
This is achieved by the timecoordination of asynchronously encoded serialorder processes.
The serial-order processes thatoccur at any moment of the process are contextdependent; they depend on the "current state" ofthe system.The serial order processes include:I. NEW-WORD-RECOGNITION: Introduction of thenext phonetically recognized word in thesentence.2.
DECAY: Automatic memory decay reduces theactivity of al l  active information that doesnot receive additional input.
I t  is an im-portant part of the neural processes whichoccur during memory access.3.
REFRACTORY-STATE-ACTIVATION: An automaticchange of state that occurs after activeinformation has reached threshold and fired.In this state the information can not affector be affected by other information in thesystem.4.
POST-REFRACTORY-STATE-ACTIVATION: An auto-matic change of state which all  fired in-formation enters after i t  has existed in theREFRACTORY-STATE.
The decay rate is differ-ent than before firing.4535.
MEANING-PROPAGATION: Fixed-time spreadingactivation to the distributed parts ofrecognized words ' meanings.6.
FIRING-INFORMATION-PROPAGATION: Asynchronousactivation propagation that occurs wheninformation reaches threshold and fires.
I tcan be INHIBITORY and EXCITATORY in itseffect.
INTERPRETATION is a result of acti-vation of a pragmatic representation of adisambiguated word meaning.I t  is the in interaction of the results ofthese asynchronous processes that the process ofcomprehension is defined.The processes are independent of the know-ledge representations defined and are blindlyapplied across all  of them.
This often producesunexpected but humanly interpretable results whenthe end state is compared with suitably definedbehavioral test results.During processing, we can study both thechange in state that results over time and "how"the change occurred.
Analyzing both aspects ofthe process is the focus of comparison between"normal" and "lesion" performance of the model.In this way we are able to study the effect of the"lesion" in a well defined linguistic context, andto make behavioral predictions that can be veri-fied (Gigley, 1982b; 1983a; 1983b; Gigley andDuffy, 1982).4.
FROM HOPE en I'ESPERANCEGiven that CN approaches to natural languageprocessing assume a neural-like control paradigm,i t  is possible to assume that such a paradigm wi l lwork equally well for other natural languages bysimply recoding the representations into thesecond language surface representation, grammar,and semantic structure.
We assume that the pro-cesses can be tuned to produce "normal" results asthey have been for the simple English fragmentdemonstrated to date.As a f i rs t  attempt to determine i f  such across-linguistic adaptation is possible, we havebegun to redefine the knowledge representations toencode suitable representations of French, homo-logous to those that HOPE includes in its presentlevel of implementation.The beginnings of the adaptation raisedquestions about language representation from adifferent perspective than occurs within astr ict ly linguistic analysis.
The remainder ofthe paper focuses on our in i t ia l  work in theadaptation (Gigley, 1984).
As the research iscurrently underway, the discussion wil l  raiseseveral unanswered questions in pointing out thevalue of applying a CN methodology to cross-l inguistic study.In explaining the representation issues forFrench, we wi l l  f i rs t ,  brief ly provide backgroundin current l inguistic research on French.
Thiswi l l  include an overview of recent relevantpsycholinguistic and neurolinguistic studies inFrench.
Then we wi l l  present an overview ofcomputational natural language systems for speechrecognition comprehension and automatic transla-tion into French.
One issue, how to chunk Frenchinto a phonetic representation of words, alongwith the implications of the determined repre-sentation for our processing approach to compre-hension of French, wi l l  form the basis of thediscussion.4.1 Word Boundaries in On-Line Comprehensionof FrenchBecause of the parallel activation of al lmeanings of each recognized word in HOPE, thedetermination of the phonetic representation of arecognized word determines the breadth of activecompetition amon 9 meanings for subsequent timeintervals of the process.
Depending on how thewords are chunked, different homophone sets, setsof associated meanings for a given homophone, mayarise.For spoken English, word boundaries tend tobe marked by intonation or pauses.
However, forFrench this is not the case.
Depending on thecontext, the ending of one word may be phone-t ica l ly  affixed to the following one calledliason.
In addition, when a content word beginsw l~ vowel or silent h, the ending vowel of thepreceding word is dropped, called elision.The problem is particularly evident withrespect to the use of articles which are veryoften spoken in such context.
In addition, thesesame articles do not have the same meaning as theydo in English.
"Le, la, les" do not always mean"the" in the definite sense, but are often genericand mark masculine, feminine, or plural (Gross,1977; Goffic and McBride, 1975).
And furthermore,these same articles often are not translated intomeaning preserving sentences in English.
Anexample sentence demonstrating this is: Ce singeaime le cafe.
(This monkey likes coffee.
)The degradation of these same morphemes hasalso been associated with certain types of aphasicbehavior in English speaking patients, speci-f ica l ly  in agrammatics and Broca's aphasics.French neurolinguistic studies have documented asimilar degradation in the abi l i ty  of agrammaticand Broca's aphasics (LeCours and Lhermitte, 1969;Nespoulos, 1973; 1981; Segui, Mehler, Frauen-felder, and Morton, 1982; Tissot, Mounin, andLhermitte, 1973).
However, only the quantity ofdegradation is reported.
The studies discussperformance in general and have not spec i f i ca l lyaddressed to what extent and in what ways thesemorphemes are affected as do some of the Englishstudies (Zur i f  and Blumstein, 1978; Zur i f ,  Green,Caramazza and Goodenough, 1976).Because of the import of articles in languageprocessing, as brief ly mentioned, how they arerepresented is of great interest when one wants to454use the adapted model, I'ESPERANCE, in i ts  " le-sioned" state to study the l ingu is t ic  results.Finally, to further i l lustrate the problemsencountered in determining the phonetic repre-sentation, examples of the implications of de-ciding to represent the word for water, "eau,"wi l l  be used.
These implications are relevant toautomatic speech recognition as well.The French equivalent for "some water" is "del'eau" which includes the generic art ic le,  le, inan elision context.
Water is spoken as l'eau eventhough there is another art ic le as above.
Thequestion becomes should the phonetic representa-tion be defined as "l'eau" or as the content wordin isolation, "eau?"
The decision affects thehomophone set association and wi l l  affect theentire across-time processing in any definedmodel.Current descriptions of research in automaticspeech recognition for French (Pierrel, 1982;Quinton, 1982) provide no relevant information.The MYRTILLE II  system described by Pierrel (1982)stresses use of l inguistic knowledge and includesphonological substitutions for the same word.
Thesystem includes alternatives for words at theirjunction with other words in different phono-logical contexts.
The system described by Quinton(1982), on the other hand, is very HEARSAY-likeand does not specifically address how these mor-phemes are handled.Finally, the automatic translation work forFrench was consulted to see i f  there were anyr~levant discussions included in the systemsregarding the representations of words similar to"eau".
In Ariane-78, art ic le constraints areaffixed as features to content words and elisionis decided in the final stage of the production ofthe French sentences (Boitet and Nedobejkine,1981).
The content words are specifically markedas beginning with vowels or silent "h".
The finalstage of the process joins the marked content wordwith an appropriate art icle to produce outputwords such as l'eau.
This suggests that forcomprehension, one would f i r s t  recognize the un i t"l'eau" and decompose i t  to the art ic le and con-tent word with appropriate masculine/feminineindicators (Jayez, 1982).In i t ia l  assessment of the l i terature withrespect to this problem has provided l i t t le  evi-dence.
The role of articles has not been studiedfor French to the extent that i t  has for English.Therefore, a p i lot  study with French aphasics wasdesigned to analyze i f  and in what contexts thesemorphemes are affected.The study includes off - l ine picture namingwhich forces use of articles in al l  of the abovecontexts, as well as on-line production of thesemorphemes in an attempt to determine in which waythese morphemes are related to the words.
Arethey unified with the word in all instances oronly in certain contexts?Adapting a neurolinguistically motivated CNmodel for a second language can be seen to moti-vate a different type of question with regard tothe second language than occurs when one bases thestudies on English surface phenomena.
This isvery important because often surface phenomena reassumed to be more similar than warranted.
Whatwe claim instead is that the processing issimilar, indeed universal and that we must beginto make cross-linguistic studies that assume thisunderlying commonality and at the same time canaccount for the variation at the surface level.5.
SUMMARYWithin developing computational neurolin-guistic research which assumes that we can definecognitively based simulation models using AImethodologies which are incorporated with neuralprocessing paradigms, we have demonstrated how onecan begin to study universals of language in a newperspective.The CN paradigm for natural language proces-sing includes claims that new perspectives onl inguist ical ly  interpretable hierarchical repre-sentations that arise in language behavior areintroduced by including neurally motivated pro-cessing control as the focus of model definitionand by including behaviorially defined con-straints, both normal and pathological.The issues are not whether human brains workin a universal fashion, but instead raise ques-tions of how interpreted levels of representation,which functionally produce similar language be-havior need to be represented for different lan-guages.
This processing approach includes manyassumptions which are important to l inguistictheory.
Furthermore, i t  provides a way of de-veloping specific, verif iable questions aboutbehavior which are mathematically better definedthan through other methods, because i t  enables oneto develop a broader perspective of the questionswithin an analysis of the hypothesis in the con-text of a characterization of the "how" of theentire behavior.By adapting HOPE for processing French, wefurthermore claim that new perspectives on lan-guage universals are demonstrated.
And f inal ly ,we feel that CN provides the only suitable way tobegin developing a comprehensive understanding ofa behavior as complex as language.6.
REFERENCESBoitet, Ch.
and Nedobejkine, N., Recent develop-ments in Russian-French machine translation atGrenoble.
Linguistics, 19, 1981.Ballard, D.H., Parameter Nets.
Technical ReportTR75, Department of Computer Science, Univer-sity of Rochester, 1982.455Cottrell, G.W., A Connectionist Scheme for Model-ling Word Sense Disambiguation.
Cognition an.__ddBrain Theory, 6, l ,  1983.Feldman, J.A., A Connectionist Model of VisualMemory.
Parallel Models of Associative Memory,G.E.
Hinton, and J.A.
Anderson (eds.
), LawrenceErlbaum Associates, Publishers, 1981.Gigley, H.M., Neurolinguistically Based Modelingof Natural Language Processing.
Paper pre-sented at the Linguistic Society of America--Association for Computational LinguisticsMeeting, New York, 1981.Gigley, H.M., A Computational NeurolinguisticApproach to Processing Models of SentenceComprehension.
COINS Technical Report 82-9,Computer and Information Sciences Department,University of Massachusetts/Amherst, 1982.Gigley, H.M.,  Neurolinguistically ConstrainedSimulation of Sentence Comprehension: Inte-grating ArtTfic--Ta~ Intelligence and BrainTheory.
Ph.D. Dissertation, Unive-~sity ofMassachuetts/ Amherst, 1982.Gigley, H.M., Art i f ic ia l  Intelligence Meets BrainTheory: An Integrated Approach to SimulationModelling of Natural Language Processing.Proceedings of the Sixth European Meeting onCybernetics and Systems Research, H.
Trappl(ed.
), North-H-oTland, 1982.Gigley, H.M., HOPE-- AI and the Dynamic Process ofLanguage Behavior.
Cognition and Brain Theory,6, l ,  1983.Gigley, H.M., Experiments in Art i f ic ia l  Aphasia --Dynamics of Language Processing.
Poster Ses-sion presented at the Academy of Aphasia,Minneapolis, 1983.Gigley, H.M., From HOPE en L'Esperance, In i t ia lInvestigation.
Technical Report 84-24, Depart-ment of Computer Science, University of NewHampshire, 1984.Gigley, H.M., and Duffy, J.R., The Contribution ofClinical Intelligence and Art i f ic ia l  Aphasio-fogy to Clinical Aphasiology and Art i f ic ia lIntelligence.
Clinical Aphasiology, Proceed-ings of the Conference, R.H. Brookshire (ed.
),Minneapolis, 1982.Goffic, P.L., and McBride, N.C., Les constructionsfondamentales du francais.
Libraries Hachetteet Larousse, 1975.Gordon, B., Confrontation Naming: ComputationalModel and Disconnection Simulation.
NeuralModels of Language .Processes, M.A.
Arbib, ~.Caplan, and J. Marshall (eds.
), Academic Press,1982.Gross, M., Grammaire transformationnelle dufrancais: syntaxe du nom.
Larousse, Paris,1977.Hayes, P.J., and Mouradian, G.V., Flexible Pars-ing.
American Journal of ComputationalLinguistics, 7, 4, 1981.Jayez, J.-H., ComprEhension automatique du langagenaturel.
Masson, Paris, 1982.Kwasny, S.C., and Sondheimer, N.K., RelaxationTechniques for Parsing Ill-Formed Input.American Journal oi = Computational Linguistics,7, 2, 1981.Lavorel, P.M., Production Strategies: A SystemsApproach to Wernicke's Aphasia.
Neural Modelsof Language Processes, M.A.
Arbib, D. Caplan,and J. Marshall (eds.
), Academic Press, 1982.Lavorel, P.M., and Gigley, H.M., ElemEnts pour uneth~orie gEnErale des machines intelligentes.Intellectica, Bulletin of the ASSOCIATION pourla RECHERECHE COGNITIVE, 7, Orsay, France,1983.Lecours, A.R., and Lehrmitte, F., Phonemic Para-phasias: Linguistic Structures and TentativeHypotheses.
CORTEX, 5, 1969.Lehnert, W.G., Dyer, M.G., Johnson, P.N.
Yong,C.J., and Harley, S., BORIS--An Experiment inIn-Depth Understanding of Narratives.
Arti-f ic ia l  Intelligence, 20, 1983.McClelland, J.L.
and Rumelhart, D.E., An Inter-active Activation Model of Context Effects inLetter Perception: Part I.
An Account of BasicFindings.
Psychological Review, 88, 5, 1981.Nespoulos, J.-L., Approche linguistique de diversphEnom~nes d'agrammatisme.
ThEse 3rd cycle,UniversitE de Toulouse-le Mirail,  FlammarionMEdecine-Sciences, Paris, 1973.Quinton, P., Util isation de contraintes syn-taxiques pour la reconnaissance de la parolecontinue.
Technique et Science Informatiques,l ,  3, 1982.Reggia, J.A., and Sanjeev, B.A., Simulation ofPhonemic Errors Using Art i f i c ia l  IntelligenceSymbol Processing Techniques.
Paper to begiven at the Seventeenth Annual SimulationSymposium, 1984.Segui, J., Mehler, J., Frauenfelder, U., andMorton, J., The Word Frequency Effect andLexical Access.
Neuropsychologia, 20, 6, 1982.Small, S., Cottrell, G., and Shastri, L., TowardConnectionist Parsing.
Proceedings of theNational Conference on Art i f i c ia l  Intelligence,Pittsburgh, 1982.Tissot, R., Mounin, G., and Lhermitte, F.,L'agrammatisme.
Etude neuropsycholinguistique.Dessart, Bruxelles, 1973.Weischedel, R.M., and Black, J.E., I f  the ParseFails.
Proceedings of the 18th Annual Meetingof the Association for Computational Linguis-t~cs~nd Parasession on Topics in InteractiveDiscourse, Philadelphia, 1980.Wood, C.C., Variations on a theme by Lashley:Lesion experiments on the neural model ofAnderson, S i lverstein,  Ritz, and Jones.Psychological Review, 85, 6, 1978.Wood, C.C., Interpretation of Real and SimulatedLesion Experiments.
Psychological Review, 87,5, 1980.456
