Conceptual Analysis of Garden-Path SentencesMichael J. PazzaniThe MITRE CorporationBedford, MA 01730ABSTRACTBy integrating syntactic and semantic processing, our parser(LAZY) is able to deterministically parse sentences whichsyntactically appear to be garden path sentences although nativespeakers do not need conscious reanalysis to understand them.LAZY comprises an extension to conceptual nalysis which yields anexplicit representation of syntactic information and a flexibleinteraction between semantic and syntactic knowledge.1.
INTRODUCTIONThe phenomenon we wish to model is the understanding ofgarden path sentences (GPs) by native speakers of English.Parsers designed by Marcus \[81\] and Shieber \[83\] duplicate areader's first reaction to a GP such as (1) by rejecting it asungrammatical, even though the sentence is, in some sense,grammatical.
(1) The horse raced past the barn fell.Thinking first that *r~cedS is the main verb, most readersbecome confused when they see the word, "fell'.
Our parser,responding like the average reader, initially makes this mistake, butlater determines that *fell" is intended to be the main verb, and?
raced* is a p.~sive participle modifying "horse'.We are particularly interested in a class of sentences whichShieber's and Marcus' parsers will consider to be GPs and reject asungrammatical though many people do not.
For example, mostpeople can easily understand (2) and (3) without consciousreanalysis.
(~) Three percent of the courses filled with freshmen werecancelled.
(8) The chicken cooked with broccoli is delicious.The syntactic structure of (2) is similar to that of sentence (1).However, most readers do not initially mistake 'filled" to be theCurrent Address:The Aerospace CorporationP.O.
Box 92957Los Angeles, CA 90009main verb.
LAZY goes a step further than previous parsers bymodeling the average readers ability to deterministieally recognizesentences (2) and (3).If "filled" were the main verb, then its subject would be thenoun phrase =three percent of the courses* and the selectionalrestrictions \[KATZ 63\] associated with "to fill" would be violated.LAZY prefers not to violate selectional restrictions.
Therefore, whenprocessing (2), LAZY will delay deciding the relationship among*filled" and "three percent of the courses" until the word "were* isseen and it is clear that "filled" is a passive participle.
We callsentences like (2) semantically disambiguatable garden pathsentences (SDGPs).
Crain and Croker \[79\] have reportedexperimental evidence which demonstrates that not all potentialgarden path sentences are actual garden paths.LAZY uses a language recognition scheme capable of waitinglong enough to select the correct parse of both (1) and {2) withoutguessing and backing up \[MARCUS 76\].
However, when conceptuallinks are strong enough, LAZY is careless and will assume onesyntactic (and therefore semantic) representation before waiting longenough to consider alternatives.
We claim that we can model theperformance of native English speakers understanding SDGPs andmisunderstanding GPs by using this type of strategy.
For example,when processing (1), LAZY assumes that "the horse" is the subjectof the main verb "raced" as soon as the word "raced" is seenbecause the selectional restrictions associated with =raced = aresatisfied.One implication of LAZY's parsing strategy, is that peoplecould understand some true GPs if they were more careful andwaited longer to select among alternative parses.
Experimentalevidence \[Matthews 791 suggests that people can recognize gardenpath sentences as grammatical if properly prepared.
Mathhewsfound that subjects recognized sentences uch as (21 as beinggrammatical, and after doing so, when later presented with asentence like (1) will also judge it to be grammatical.
{In a moreinformal experiment, we have found that, colleagues who re~d paperson GPs, understand new GPs easily by tile end of a paper.)
LAZYexhibits this behavior by being more careful after encounteringSDGPs or when reanalyzing arden path sentences.4861I.
SYNTAX IN A CONCEPTUAL ANALYZERThe goal of conceptual analysis is to map natural languagetext into memory structures that represent the meaning of the text.It is claimed that this mapping can be accomplished without a priorsyntactic analysis, relying instead on a variety of knowledge sourcesincluding expectations from both word definitions and inferentialmemory (see \[Ricsbeck 76\], \[Schank 80\], \[Gershman 82\], \[Birnbaum81\], {Pazzani 83\] and \[Dyer 83\]).
Given this model of processing, insentence (4),(~) Af~rg kickcd John.llow is it possible to tell who kicked whom?
There is a verysimple answer: Syntax.
Sentence (4) is a simple active sentencewhose verb is "to kick'.
"Mary" is the subject of the sentence and?
Bill" is the direct object.
There may be a more complicatedanswer, if, for example, John and Mary are married, Mary is ill-tempered, John is passive, and Mary has just found out that Johnhas been unfaithful.
In this case, it is possible to expect hat Marymight hit John, and confirm this prediction by noticing that thewords in (4) refer to Mary, John, and hitting.
In fact, if thisprediction was formulated and the sentence were "John kickedMary" we might take it to mean "Mary kicked John' and usuallynotice that the speaker had made a raistake.
Although we feel thatthis type of processing is an important part of understanding, itcannot account for all language comprehension.
Certainly, (4) canbe understood in contexts which do not predict hat Mary might hitJohn.
requiring syntactic knowledge to determine who kicked whom.fla.
Precedes and FollowsSyntactic information is represented in a conceptual analyzer,in a number of ways, the simplest of which is the notion of one wordpreceding or following another.
Such information is encoded as apositional predicate in the test of a type of production whichRiesbeck calls a request.
The test also contains a semantic predicate(i.e., the selectional restrictions).
A set of requests make up thedefinition of a word.
For example, the definition of "kick" has threerequests:REQI: Test: trueAction: Add the meaning structurefor "kick" to an orderedlist of concepts typicallycalled the C-list.REQg: Test: Is there a conceptpreceding the concept for"kick" which is animate?Action: ...REQ3: Test: Is there a conceptfollowing the concept for"kick" which is a physical object?Action: ...The action of a request ypically builds or connects concepts.Although people who build conceptual analyzers have reasons fornot building a representation f the syntax of a sentence, there is noreason that they can not.
LAZY builds syntactic representations.
--"lib.
Requests in LAZYLAZY, unlike other conceptual analyzers, separates thesyntactic (or positional) information from the selectioual restrictionsby dividing the test part of request into a number of facets.
Thereare three reasons for doing this.
First, it allows for a distinctionbetween different kinds of knowledge.
Secondly, it is possible toselectively ignore some facets.
Finally, it permits a request to accessthe information encoded in other requests.In many conceptual analyzers, some syntactic information ishidden in the control structure.
At certain times during the parse,not all of the request are considered.
For example, in (5) it isnecessary to delay considering a request.
(5) Who is Mar~l reernitingfTo avoid understanding the first three words of sentence {5) asa complete sentence, "Who is Mary?
', some request from "is" mustbe delayed until the word "recruiting" is processed.
In LAZY, thetime that a request can be considered is explicitly represented as afacet of the request.
Additionally, separate tests exist for theselectional restriction, the expected part of speech, and the expectedsententiM position.In LAZY, REQ2 of "kick" would be:REQ2a: Position: Subject of "kick"Restriction: AnimateAction: Make the conceptfound the syntacticsubject of "kick"Part-Of-Speech: (noun pronoun)Time: Clause-Type-Known?In REQ2a, Subject is a function which examines the state ofthe C-list and returns the proper constituent as a function of theclause type.
In an active declarative sentence, the subject precedesthe verb, in a passive sentence it may follow the word "by', etc.\[The usage of "subject" is incorrect in the usual sense of the word.
)The Time facet of REQ2a states that the request should beconsidered only after the type of the clause is know.
The predicateswhich are included in a request o control the time of considerationare: End-Of-Noun-Group?, Clause-Type-Known?, Head.Of,Immediate-Noun-Group?, andEnd-Of-Sentence?.
These operate byexamining the C-list in a manner similar to the positional predicates.The other facets of REQ2a state that the subject of "kick" must beanimate, and should be a noun or s pronoun.487llI GARDEN PATH SENTENCES ....Several different types of local ambiguities cause GPs.Misunderstanding sentences I, 2 and 3 is a result of confusing aparticiple for the main verb of a sentence.
Although there are othertypes of GPs (e.g., imperative and yes/no questions with an initial"have') ,  we will only demonstrate how LAZY understands ormisunderstands passive participle and main verb conflicts.Passive participles and past main verbs are indicated by a?
ed" suffix on the verb form.
Therefore, the definition of "ed" mustdiscriminate between these two cases.
The definition of "ed= isshown in Figure 3a.
A simpler definition for "ed ?
is possible if themorphology routine reconstructs entences o that the suffix of averb is a separate "word" which precedes the verb.
The definitionof "ed" is shown in Figure 3a.
Throughout his discussion, we willuse the name Root for the verb immediately following =ed" on theC-list.If Root appears to be passiveThen mark Root as a passive participle.Otherwise if Root does not appear to be passiveThen note the tense of Root.Figure 3a.
Definition of "ed' .It is safe to consider this request only at the end of thesentence or if a verb is seen following Root which could be the mainverb.
One test that  is used to determine if Root could be passive is:1.
There is no known main verb seen preceding "ed' ,  and2.
The word which would be the subject of Root if Rootwere active agrees with the selectional restrictions forthe word which would precede Root if Root were passive(i.e., the selectional restrictions of the direct object ifthere is no indirect object), and3.
There is a verb which could be the main verb followingRoot.Figure 3b.One test performed to determine if Root does not appear to bepassive is:1.
The verb is not marked as passive, and2.
The word which would be the subject of Root if Rootwere active agrees with the selectional restrictions forthe subject.Figure 3c.Note that these tests rely on the fact that one request canexamine the semantic or syntactic information encoded in anotherrequest.As we have presented requests o far, four separate tests mustbe true to fire a request (i.e., to execute the request's action): a wordmust be found in a particular position in the sentence, the worifmust have the proper part of speech, the word must meet theselectional restrictions, and the parse must be in a state in which itis safe to execute the positional predicate.
We have relaxed therequirement that the selectional restrictions be met if all of the othertests are true.
This avoids problems present in some previousconceptual analyzers which are unable to parse some sentences suchas "Do rocks talk?
= .
Additionally, we have experimented with notrequiring that the Time test succeed if all other tests have passedunless we are reanalyzing a sentence that we have previously notbeen able to parse.
We will demonstrate that this yields theperformance that people exhibit when comprehending GPs.LAZY processes a sentence one word at a t ime from left toright.
When processing a word, its representation is added to theC-list and its requests are activated.
Next, all active requests areconsidered.
When a request is fired, a syntactic structure is built byconnecting two or more constituents on the C-list.
At the end of aparse the C-list should contain one constituent as the root of a treedescribing the structure of the sentence.Sentence ~6) is a GP which people normally have troublereading:(6) The boat 8ailed across the river sank.When parsing this sentence, LAZY reads the word "the" andadds it to the C-list.
Next, the word "boat" is added to the C-list.A request from "the s looking for a noun to modify is considered andall tests pass.
This request constructs a noun phrase with "the"modifying "boat ' .
Next, "ed s is added to the C-list.
All of itsrequests look for a verb following, so they can not fire yet.
Thework "sail" is added to the C-list.
The request of Sed" which setsthe tense of the immediately following verb is considered.
It checkthe semantic features of "boat s and finds that they match theselectional restrictions required of the subject of "sai l ' .
The actionof this request is executed, in spite of the fact that  its Time reportsthat it is not safe to do so.
Next, a request from "sail" finds thatthat "boat" could serve as the subject since it precedes the verb inwhat is erroneously assumed to be an active clause.
The structurebuilt by this request notes that *boat" is the subject of "sai l ' .
Arequest looking for the direct object of "sail" is then considered.
Itnotices that the subject has been found and it is not animate,therefore "sail" is not being used transitively.
This request isdeactivated.
The word "across" is added to the C-list and "theriver" is then parsed analogously to "tile boat ' .
Next, a requestfrom "across" looking for the object of the preposition is considered...and finds the noun phrase, "the r iver' .
Another request is thenactivated and attaches this prepositional phrase to "sai l ' .
At thispoint in tile parse, we have built a structure describing an activesentence "The boat sailed across the river.'
and the C-list containsone constituent.
After adding the verb suffix and "sink" to the C-list we find that "sink" cannot find a subject and there are twoconstituents left on the C-list.
This is an error condition and thesentence must be reanalyzed more carefully.488It is possible to recover from misreading some garden pathsentences by reading more carefully.
In LAZY, this corresponds tonot letting a request fire until all the tests are true.
Although otherrecovery schemes are possible, our current implementation starts?
over from the beginning.
When reanalyzing (6), the request from"ed" which sets the tense of the main verb is not fired because allfacets of its test never become true.
This request is deactivatedwhen the word "sank" is read and another equest from "ed" notesthat "sailed" is a participle.
At the end of the parse there is oaeconstituent left on the C-list, similar to that which would beproduced when processing "The boat which was sailed across theriver sank'.It is possible to parse SDGPs without reanalysis.
For example,most readers easily understand (7) which is simplified from\[Birnbaum 81\].
(7) The plane stuffed with marijuana crashed.Sentence (7) is parsed analogously to (6) until the word "stuff"is encountered.
A request from "ed" tries t,, determine the sentencetype by testing if "plane" could be the subject of "stuff* and failsbecause "plane" does not meet the selectional restrictions of "stuff'.This request also checks to see if "stuff" could be passive, but failsat this time (see condition 3 of Figure 3b).
A request from "stuff"then finds that "plane" is in the default position to be the subject,but its action is not executed because two of the four tests have notpassed: the seleetional restrictions are violated and it is too early toconsider the positional predicate because the sentence type isunknow.
A request looking for the direct object of "stuff" does notsucceed at this time because the default location of the direct objectfollows the verb.
Next, the prepositional phrase "with marijuana" ispawed analogously to "across the lake" in (6).
After the suffix of"crash" (i.e., "ed') and "crash" are added to the C-list; the requestfr.m the "ed' of "stuff" is considered, and it finds that "stuff" couldbe a passive participle because "plane" can fulfill the selectionalrestrictions of the direct object of "stuff'.
A request from "stuff"then notes that "plane" is the direct object, and a request from the"ed" of "crash" marks the tense of "er~h'.
Finally, "crash" finds"plane" as its subject.
The only constituent of the C-list is a treesimilar to that which would be produced by "The plane which was-stuffed with marijuana crashed'.There are some situations in which garden path sentencescannot be understood even with a careful reanalysis.
For example,many people have problems understanding sentence (8).
(8) The canoe floated down the river aank.To help some people understand this sentence, it is necessaryto inform them that "float" can be a transitive verb by giving asimple example sentence such as "The man floated the canoe'.
Ourparser would fail to reanalyze this sentence if it did not have arequest associated with "float" which looks for a direct object.
"~e have been rather conservative in giving rules to determinewhen "ed" indicates a past participle instead of the past tense.
Inparticular, condition 3 of Figure 3b may not be necessary.
Byremoving it, as soon as "the plane stuffed" is processed we wouldassume that "stuffed" is a participle phrase.
This would not changethe parse of (7).
However, there would be an impact when parsing(0).
(9) The chicken cooked with broccoli.With condition 3 removed, this parses as a noun phrase.
Withit included, (9) would currently be recognized as a sentence.
Wehave decided to include condition 3, because it delays the resolvingof this ambiguity until both possibilities are clear.
It is our beliefthat this ambiguity should be resolved by appealing to episodic andconceptual knowledge more powerful than sclectional restrictions.IV.
PREVIOUS WORKin PARSIFAL, Marcus' parser, the misunderstanding of GPs iscaused by having grammar ules which can look ahead only threeconstituents.
To deterministically parse a GP such as (1), it isnecessary to have a look ahead buffer of at least four constituents.PARSIFAL's grammar rules make the same guess that readers makewhen presented with a true GP.
For a participle/main verb conflict,readers prefer to choose a main verb.
However, PARSIFAL willmake the same guess when processing SDGPs.
Therefore,PARSIFAL fails to parse some sentences (SDGPs) deterministicallywhich people can parse without conscious backtracking.
In LAZY,the C-list corresponds to the look ahead buffer.
When parsing mostsentences, the C-list will contain at most three constituents.
}\]owever, when understanding a SDGP or reanalyzing a true gardenpath sentence, there are four constituents in the C-list.
Instead ofmodeling the misunderstanding of GPs, by limiting the size of thelook-ahead buffer and the look ahead in the grammar, LAZY modelsthis phenomenon by deciding on a syntactic representation beforewaiting long enough to disamhiguate on a purely syntactic basiswhen semantic expectations are strong enough.Shieber models the misunderstanding of GPs in a LALR{I)parser \[Aho 77\] by the selection of an incorrect reduction in areduce-reduce conflict.
In a participle/main verb conflict, there is astate in his parser which requires choosing between a participlephrase and a verb phrase.
Instead of guessing like PARSIFAL,Shieber's parser looks up the "lexical preference" of the verb.
Someverbs are marked as preferring participle forms; others prefer beingmain verbs.
While this lexicai preference can account for theunderstanding of SDGPs and the misunderstanding of GPs in anyone particular example, it is not a very general mechanism.
Oneimplication of using lexical preference to select the correct form isthat some verbs are only understood or misunderstood as main verbsand others only as participles.
If this were true, then sentences (10a)and {10b) would both be either easily understood or GPs.
(10n) No freshmen registered for Calculus failed.
(lOb) No car registered in California should be driven inMezico.489We find that most people easily understand (10b), but requireconscious backtracking to understand (10a).
Instead of using apredetermined preference for one syntactic form, LAZY utilizessemantic lues to favor a particular parse.V.
FUTURE WORKWe intend to extend LAZY by allowing it to consult andepisodic memory during parsing.
The format that we have chosenfor requests can be augmented by adding an EPISODIC facet to thetest.
This will enable expectation to predict individual objects inaddition to semantic features.
We have seen examples of potentialgarden path sentences which we speculate are misunderstood orunderstood by consulting world knowledge {e.g., 11 and 12)(11) At MIT, ninety five percent of the freahmen registeredfor Calculus passed.
(1~) At MIT, five percent of the freshmen registered foeCalculus failed.We have observed that more people mistake "registered" forthe main verb in (11) than {12).
This could be accounted forby thefact that the proposition that "At MIT, ninety five percent of thefreshmen registered for Calculus" is more easily accepted than "AtMIT, five percent of the freshmen registered for Calculus'.Evidence such as this suggests that semantic and episodic processingare done at early stages of understanding.VI.
CONCLUSIONWe have augmented the basic request consideration algorithmof a conceptual analyzer to include information to determine thetime that an expectation should be considered and shown that byignoring this information when syntactic and semantic expectationsagree, we can model the performance of native English speakersunderstanding and misunderstanding garden path sentences.VII.
ACKNOWLEDGMENTSThis work was supported by USAF Electronics SystemDivision under Air Force contract F19628-84-C-0001 and monitoredby the Rome Air Development Center.BIBLIOGRAPHTBirnbanm, L. and M. Selfridge, "Conceptual Analysis ofNatural Language', in Inside Artificial Intelligence: Five Prol~ramsPlus Miniatures, Hillsdale, N J: Lawrence Erlbaum Associates, 1981.Crain, S. and P. Coker, sA Semantic Constraint on Parsing',Paper presented at Linguistic Society of America Annual Meeting.University of California at Irvine, 1979.Dyer, M.G., In-Depth Understanding: A Computer Model ofIntegrated Processing for Narrative Comprehension, Cambridge,MA: The MIT Press, 1083.Gershman, A.V., "A Framework for Conceptual Analyzers', inStrategies for Natural Language Processin~b Hillsdale, N J: LawrenceErlbaum Associates, 1982.Katz, 3.
S. and J.A.
Fodor, "The Structure of SemanticTheory', in Language, 309, 1963.Marcus, M., A Theory of Syntact~ic Recognition for NaturalLanguage, Cambridge, MA: The MIT Press, 1980.Marcus, M., *Wait-and-See Strategies for Parsing NaturalLanguage', MIT WP-75, Cambridge, MA: 1974.Matthews, R., mAre the Grammatical Sentences of s Languageof Recursive Set?
', in Systhese 400, 1979.Pazzani, M.J., *Interactive Script Instantiation', inProceedings of the National Conference on Artificial Intelligence,1983.Riesbeck, C. and R.C.
Schank, "Comprehension byComputer: Expectation Based Analysis of Sentences in Coute~t',Research Report ~78, Dept.
of Computer Science, Yale University,1976.Schank, R.C.
and L. Birnbaum, N lemory~ Meaning, andSyntaX,, Research Report 189, Yale University Department ofComputer Science, 1980.Shieber, S.M., "Sentence Disambiguatiou by a Shift-ReduceParsing Technique', 21st Annual Meeting of the Association forComputational Linguistics, Association for ComputationalLinguistics, 1983.490
