LEX ICAL  KNOWLEDGE BASESRobert A. AmelerNatural-Lsngu.ge and Knowledge-Resource SystemsSRI InternationalMenlo Park, California 94025, USAA lexical knowledge base is a repository of computationalinformation about concepts intended to be generally useful inmany application areas including computational linguistics,artificial intelligence, and information science.
It containsinformation derived from machine-readable dictionaries, the fulltext of reference books, the results of statistical analyses of textusages, and data manually obtained from human worldknowledge.A lexical knowledge base is not intended to serve any oneapplication, but to be a general repository of knowledge aboutlexical concepts and their relationships.
Thus natural-languageparsers, generators, or other intelligent processors must be ableto interface to the knowledge base and are expected to onlyextract those portions of its knowledge which they need forspecific tasks.
Likewise, the knowledge base is designed, built,and maintained primarily as a repository-rather than a toolserving the needs of other computational processors.
Just ashuman memory, the knowledge base doesn't distinguishbetween 'useful' knowledge and information for which it atpresent doesn't have any functional use.
In this manner theknowledge base is a test bed for concept representationmechanisms and data structures, rather than an adjunct toother computational processes.Investigations of machine-readable dictionaries over the lastdecade have shown that they can be computationally useful fortasks such as parsing, computer-assisted instruction, speechgeneration, and content analysis.
Sufficient knowledge of thecontents of machine-readable dictionaries now exists to providemeaningful answers to questions concerning what additionalinformation about lexical concepts will be needed to representmany aspects of human 'world knowledge.
'Machine-readable dictionaries are seen as providing an indexinto human knowledge.
A dictionary definition provides theminimal information ecessary to evoke the concept it definesin the mind of a human reader who already knows to what thisconcept refers.
It is neither intended nor capable of serving asthe actual 'meaning' of that concept.
A lexical knowledge baseis intended to provide a means of economically integrating notonly dictionary definitions, but other types of lexieal knowledge.The task of constructing a lexical knowledge base is seen as agoal in itself, distinct from the task of building natural anguageprocessing programs that will use that knowledge base.Several of the components of a lexical knowledge base arealready known and await assembly into one database.
Onecomponent is the tangled-hierarchy of concepts compiled aspart of an analysis of the kernels of the definitions in adictionary.
This 'tangled' hierarchy provides ISA aresconnecting 27,000 nominal concepts and 12,000 verbal conceptsderived from the Merriam-Webster Pocket Dictionary \[Amsler1980\].
Another component of the lexical knowledge base hasbeen provided by the extraction of subject codes from theLongman Dictionary of Contemporary English.
Some 17,000concepts in the Longman dictionary possess ubject designationsthat give the domain in which these concepts are used.There is a subtle distinction between the ISA hierarchy andthe subject classification that is worth mentioning.
A word suchas 'crossbow' is taxonomically linked to 'weapon' in the ISAhierarchy; but appears in the subject domain 'military history.
'Subjects thus do not duplicate ISA linkage information, but addanother facet to conceptual understanding.There are a number of additional machine-readabledictionary properties that can of course be combined into alexical knowledge base.
Machine-readable dictionaries containinformation regarding the appropriate level of usage ofconcepts; their geographic or chronologic associations; .andsemantic and syntactic restrictions on their potential argumentsand combinations.In addition to this immediatly available information listed foreach concept in dictionary definitions, dictionaries containmuch implicit information derivable from studying collectionsof definitions.
For example, the verbs of motion can be analyzedto reveal much more about their core concept 'move' thanwould be seen from its definition alone.Two major components of conceptual understanding whichdictionaries fail to adequately describe are proceduralknowledge and information derived from the mental inspectionof visual imagery.
Sources for procedural knowledge may existin other types of special purpose reference books, such asencyclopedias; but information derived from conceptual visualimages will require special encoding to be useful forcomputational remsoning.
Many questions of relative andabsolute size, position, and orientation are not answerable fromdefinitions.
While some sizes are availab\[e from referencebooks, there nevertheless remain many aspects of ourunderstanding of tangible objects which can only be answeredby examination of illustrations or scenes in which the objectsappear.Such illustrations are, however, an accepted part of many458dictionaries and other lexical reference books.
The famous'Duden' series of pictorial dictionaries provide line drawings andillustrations of tangible objects, often collectively depicted inscenes which relate large amounts of information about theirrelative sizes, uses, etc.
Such information will require encodingmethods that bridge the gap between natural languageunderstanding research and vision research.Other line drawings often show the a series of images ofhuman figures going through the steps of an athletic event,such as diving into a swimming pool, or performing a polevault.
The information shown is chronological and spatial,giving relative locations of the performer throughout ime.Capturing this pictorial information i  a lexical knowledge basewill be necessary for it to contain the data needed to fullyunderstand text.These tasks are seen as providing the basis for buildingiexieal knowledge bases.
The fundamental question governingwhether new information must be added to a lexical knowledgebase shall be whether natural-language understanding problemsdemonstrate he need for the information and it can be shownto not be inferrable from existing material in the knowledgebase.\[After July, 1984 the author will be joining the ArtificialIntelligence and Information Science Group at BellCommunications Research in Morristown, New Jersey.
Fundingfor this paper was provided in part by NSF grants IST-8208578,IST-8200346, and IST-8300040.\]459
