DETECTING PATTERNS IN A LEXICAL DATA BASENicoletta CalzolariDipartimento di Linguistica - Universita' di PisaIstituto di Linguistica Computazionale del CNRVia della Faggiola 3250100 Pisa - ItalyABSTRACTIn  a well-structured Lexica\] Data Base ,  anumber of relations among lexica\] entries can heinteractively evidenced.
The present articleexamines hyponymy, as an example of paradigmaticrelation, and "restriction" relation, as asyntagmatic relation.
The theoretical results oftheir implementation are illustrated.I INTRODUCTIONIn previous papers it has been pointed outthat ill a well-structured Lexical Data Has(.
itbecomes possible to detect automatical;y, an(l ~eevidence through interactlve queries a number Ofmorpho log ica \ ]  , syntact .
i c ,  o r  semant  i~.re la t ionsh ips  between lex ica l  ent r ies ,  .~uch ~lbsynonymy,  hyponymy,  hyperonymy,  der  iva t  ion ,case-argument, l ex ica l  f ie ld ,  e tc .The present article examines hyponymy, a.~ dI:example of paradigmatic re la t ion ,  and what can b(.cal led " res t r i c t ion  or modif icat ion" relaLion, asa syntagmat ic relation, l-~y reSLl'iet Jell ormodification relation, l mean that part of aso-called "aristotellan" definition which has tiJefunction of linking th(~ "genus" and the"differentia specifica".When evidenced in a lexicon, tile hyponymyrelation produces hierarchical trees partitioniI*Kthe lexicon in many semant ica i ly coilerentsubsets .
These  t rees  are  not  c reated  once  andfor al i, but it is important that uhey areprocedurally activated at the query moment.While evidencing the second relationconsidered, one can investigate as to whether itis possible to discover any correlation be~wneI*lexical or grammatical features in definitionsand particular kinds of "definienda", and thustry to answer questions such as the following:"Are there any connections between theserestriction relations and ~he fundamental ways ofdefinition, i.e.
the criterial parameters bywhich people defines things?
"For both relations, the paper presents thedifferent procedures by which they are"automatically recognized and extracted from thenatural language definitions, the degree ofreliability of their automatic labeling, the useof these labels in interactive queries on thelexical data base, and finally the theoreticalresults of their implementation in aMachine-Dictionary.II THE LANGUAGE OF DEFINITIONS AS A SUBLANGUAGE1 am trying to develop and exploit the idea ofconsidering the language of dictionarydefinitions as a particular sublanguage withinnatura l  language.
Th is  perspect ive  cannotobviously be adopted for subject matterrestrictions in definitions, but only for thepurpose of the text, i.e.
the specificcommunicative goal.
From th i s  restriction on thepurpose of the text, certain lexico-grammaticalrestrictions do result, which prove to be veryuseful.As to  t i le  res t r i c t ions  on t i le  lex ica l  r i chnessof definitions, these are not due to the factthat they relate to a specific domain ofdiscourse, but only to the property of closure(although not satisfied at 100%') that thedefining vocabulary shou ld  in principle besimpler and more restricted than the defined setof \]emmas, i.e.
the former should be a propersubset of the latter.This kind of quantitative restriction on thevocabulary of definitions would not be of anyinterest in itself, if it were not accompanied byother kinds of constraints both on a) thelexical, and on b) the grammatical side.a) From the frequency list of the words usedin definitions (about 800,000 word-occurrences,and 75,000 word-types), it appears in fact thatsome words have a much greater importance than innormal language, as evidenced by a comparisonwith the data of  the Lessico di Frequenza dellaLingua Italiano Contemporaneo (Bor to l in i  et a l .
,1971).
These are the defining generic terms170which are traditionally used by lexicographers,such as ACT, EFFECT, PERSON, OBJECT, WHO,PROCESS, CAUSE, etc.
It is not by chance thatthese same concepts are of relevance in manyArtificial Intelligence systems.b) Not only single words, or classes of words,are particularly relevant in the definingsublanguage.
There are also lexical patterns andsyntactic patterns which occur with greatfrequency, and which play a very special role indefining sentences.The combination of these constraints carl  beand actually is very useful, when trying toexploit the information contained in definitions,and when transforming an archive of naturallanguage definitions into a knowledge base.structured as a network.
Some important parts ofknowledge are in fact already retrievable ininteractive mode from the Italian Lexica\] DataBase, which has recently been restructured.Analyses on large corpora of definitions,carried out on many dictionaries (Amsler.
I')80;Calzolari, 1983a, 1983b; Mich ie l s ,  Noel, 1')82)have in fact shown that the definitionssublanguage displays several regularities oflexJca\] and syntactic occurrences and pat terns .These  genera l  lex ica \ ]  c \ ]asses  and  the  c lasses  o frecur rent  pat terns  can  be more  or  less  eus i \ ]ycaptured  fo r  ins tance  by pat tern -match ing  r .
l es .and  i f  poss ib le  character i zed  w i th  fo rmal  ru les .I I \ ]  HYPONYMY RELATIONHyponymy i s  the most important re la t ion  to  b(,evidenced ill a lexicon.
Due tO it.% taxollom i {:nature, it gives the lexicon, when implemented, aparticular hierarchical structure: its result isobviously not a tree, but many tangledhierarchies (Amsler, 1980).Instead of evidencing and labelling thisrelation by hand, I have tried to characterize itprocedurally.
The procedure which automaticallycoded (with a precision of more thah 90%calculated on a random sample of 2000definitions) true superordinates in all thedefinitions (approx.
185.000 for \]03.000 iemmas).was based almost exclusively on the position ofthe "genus" term at the beginning of thedefinitional phrases, giving Nouns, Verbs.
andAdjectives as superordinates of defined entriesof the same lexical category.
Ad hoc subroutinessolved exceptional cases where a) quantifiers, orother modifiers preceded the genus term (e.g.aletta ---> piccolo gruppo  di Donne dietrol'angolo dell'ala), or b) more than one genus waspresent in the definition (e.g.
Qssordore --->attutire, smorzarsi detto di suono), or c) aprepositional phrase, usually of locative type,was at the beginning of the phrase (e.g.
piazzato---> nel rugby, calcio al pallone collocate sulterreno).Even though the first immediate purpose ofthis procedure is of classificationa\] nature, theultimate goal is the extraction and formalizationof the most relevant relationship between lexicalitems which is implicitly stored in any standardprinted dictionary.
It is in fact now possibleto retrieve in the \]exica\] data base not only allthe definitions in which any possible word-formappears, together with the defined lemmas (e.g.SUONO appears in 328 definitions), but also toretrieve on-line, if desired, only thedefinitions in which the given word-form is usedas a superordinate, therefore with the list ofits hyponyms (e.g.
the same word SUONO is used assuperordinate of only 65 words, i.e.
of a subsetof the preceding set containing MUSICA, RUNORE,SQUILLO, SUSSURRO, etc.~.The query-language so far implemented for thelexica\] data base permits therefore to retrieveinformation on this hierarchical relation.identifying on-line the a\]lowableinterconnections within the entire lexicon.
Thelinks produced can he analyzed, evaluated, and,if necessary, interactive\]y corrected.From explorations on the trees thus obtained.we can also try Lo set up classes and subclassesof superordinates, on the basis of the uppernodes to which many other nodes are connected asdescendants.
Only as an example, theidentification criterion for the noun-class"SET-OF" containing \]NSIEME, GRUPPO, COLLEZJONE,COMPLESSO.
AGGREGATO.
etc., among the set ofnoun-superordinates, is the fact that they arelinked one to the other in the tree which resultsfrom querying the data base.
Their hyponyms willobviously be for the most part collective nouns.The identification of word-classes like thisone leads to the next step Jn the formalizationof the hyponymy relation, which will consist inthe insertion of a label indicating a semanticclass to these sets of superordinates.
It willthus be possible to retrieve, for example, allthe nouns generically definable as "SET-OF",independently of tile particular word denoting aset used in definitions.
Since it is alreadypossible to trace these chains of hyponyms goingupwards or downwards for more than one level, onecan immediately ask whether, for example,MASSERIA belongs to the set of collectives evenif it is defined as HANDRIA, because MANDRIA isdefined as BRANCO, which is in turn defined asINSIENE, which finally is one of the nounsbelonging to the class "SET-OF".171IV RESTRICTION RELATIONEven though some refinements are stil lrequired in order to improve the rel iabi l i ty ofthe automatic recovery of ISA-re\]ated termschains, this kind of structural relation withinthe lexicon, that is hyponymy, is at a good stageof implementation in the Italian \]exica\] database.Much still remains to be done as far as othervery interesting rel at iouships bt~tween tileentries are concerned.
I am now consider ing whatcould be cal led "restriction or modificatioi*"relation, since its purpose is to restrict ormodify the meaning of the genus term.
It isexempli f ied in the  fol lowing def in i t ions  by thewords in italics:stannJte ---> calcopir ite contenente stagnoarr icciolare ---> modellare o \ [o rmo di r ieciolor isonatore ---:" disposit ivo otto o generarorisonauzaI wish to evaluate what could be done withrespect to this kind of relation, start ing fromthe available definitional data.
One of thefirst aims of this lexicologJcal rese;Irch i s  toanalyze, by m~ans of computational tools.
;llld touse tile information ConLalned in tile dJ fl or,,nLdef init ional formats and suructures.
"l'i~cimplementaLion of a number of proc:eduros whichconvert the natural language information convey~,dby definit ions into processable formals, made tlpby structured relational links between lexJcalitems or classes of lexical items, i.~ nok  Lakol;into consideration.These formals call be made ~raceable e.g.
in allInformation Retrieval system on def init ions,  like,the one actual ly implemented, on th,: entir.,corpus, for the taxonomic part of the |exicalstructure.
But these formatted re I ationa \]structures can also be used as start ing pointsfor a computat ional ly exploitable reorgnnizat~onof the definit ional content.
(me, of thecharacterist ics of the definit ional sublanguage,i.e.
the presence of recurrent patterns ( ,%uch aspropr io di,  relotivo o, prodotro do, originoriodi, etc.
), enables, at least in certain cases, toproduce a constant mapplng from certain variabletypes of more frequently detected definit ionalphrases no constant under ly ing relationa!structures.Using rather simple pattern-matchingprocedures some classes and subclasse~ ofdefinit ions can be separated, and a small numberof simpler types of definit ions have already beenconverted into a formalized coded format alsowith regard to this restrict ion relation.
A newvirtual Relat ion is thus added to the originaldata base.
The dist inguished elements of anumber of simple natural language patterns aremapped into some general structured informationformats.
Up to now, some of the def init ionsd isp lay ing the fol lowing restr ict ion relationshave been treated:REL.FORM (e.g.
o formo di)REL.PROV (e.g.
provvisto di)REL.APT (e.g.
otto o)and the corresponding relational links generated.Among the  lex ica l  var iants  o f  REL.PROV thereare  fornito di, dototo di, munito di, pieno di,rlcco di, etc.
; whi le REL.FORM groups thefol lowing variants of a different type: in \[ormodi,  che ha (la) forma (d i ) ,  di formo, di formosimile a (quella di ) ,  $otto forma dl ,  avente formodi,  etc ,  I t  is  thus poss ib le ,  fo r  example, toretrieve, among the 1271 def init ions in which theword FORHA appears, only those def in ing somethingas "having the shape of something else".
Theimplementation of these links allows to produceanother kind of part i t ioning within the lexicalsystem, and permits to better investigate theinternal structure of words.A procedure of the kind exempl i f ied above,based on pattern-matching, is possible for a goodnumber of def init ion types; for example, with adi f ferent formaL, for many adjectives:def  , NP =Ad j  .
.
.
.
>> REL.X: VP :where several groups of def init ions are found toshare a common underly ing structure in terms ofthe restrict ion relation involved, in spite ofother lexical and syntactic differences.V FUTURE PERSPECTIVESA comparison with the def init ional  corpora ofother dict ionaries, also of other languages, wil lcertainly prove to be useful in establ ish ing theset of the most general or pr imit ive Relations,used for def init ion in lexicographieal practice,often over lapping with the pr imit ive Relationsstated in many AI systems.
These relations,mapped into a formal link in the data base, canthen be paraphrased in each language, in thestandard language.The data base structure envisaged does permitboth to maintain at a lower level (the start inglevel), and to el iminate at an upper level, manypecul iar i t ies and variations in the l inguistic172expression of the same or of similar concepts orrelations; their effect is to facilitate thecomprehension by the users of the printeddictionary, inhibiting however immediatecomprehension by procedural routines in themechanical processing of dictionary data.By applying similar methods of automaticconversion and mapping into suitable formats, asextensively as possible throughout the lexicon,many definitional expressions can be submitted toan attempt of standardization, thus achievingmajor precision, which gives a considerableimprovement when performing, for example,information retrieval operations on the contentof a dictionary.This more structured, but, in another sense.simplified version of definitions, which alsoaccounts for their relational nature, provides anexcellent basis for testing and studying the"knowledge of the world" which underlies thestructure of a dictionary.Vl REFERENCESAlinei, M., La Struttura del l,essico, Bologna: IiHulino, 1974.Amsler, R.A., The Structure of theHerriam-Webster Pocket Dictionary, Ph.D,Thesis, Department of Computer Science~.University of Texas,  Austin, Texas, 1')80.Bortolini, U., Tag\]iavini, C., Zampolli, A..Lessico di Frequenza de\] la Lingua I ta\] ian,JContemporanea, Hi lano:  Garzant i .
1972.Calzolari, N. , "Towards the organ izat ion  oflexical definitions or.
a data bus,'s t ructure  , COLING82 Abst rac ts ,  ed.
by" E.Haj i~ov~, Prague: Char les  Un ivers i ty ,  1982,61-64.Calzolari, N., "Lexiual definitions in acomputerized dictionary'", Computers andArtificial Intelligence, II(1983a~3, 225-233.Calzolari, N. , "Semantic links and thedictionary", in Proceedings of the ~tl !International Conference on Computers and theHumanities, ed.
by S.K.Burton, D.D.ShorL,Rockville (Haryland): Computer SciencePress, 1983b, 47-50.Calzolari, N., Ceccotti, H.L., "Organizing alarge scale lexica\] database dictionary",Acres du Con~r~s Informatique et SciencesHumaines, Li&ge: L.A.S.L.A., 1981, 155-163.Clark, E.V., Clark, H.H., "When nouns surface asverbs", Language, 55(1979)4, 767-811.Evens, M.W., Litowitz, B.E., Harkowitz, J.A.,Smith, R.N., Werner, O., Lexical-SemanticRelations: a Comparative Survey, Edmonton,Alberta: Linguistic Research Inc., 1980.Findler, N.V.
(ed.
), Associative Networks, NewYork: Academic Press, 1979.Hendrix, G.G., "Natural-language interface",Proceed ings  of the Workshop 'AppliedComputational Linguistics in Perspective',American Journal of ComputationalL ingu is t i cs ,  8 (198- ) - ,  56-61.Michiels, A., M~llenders, J., No~l, J.,"Exploiting a large data base by Longman",COLING80: Proceedings of the 8thInternational Conference on ComputationalLinguistics, Tokyo, 1980, 374-382.Hichiels, A., Noel, J., "Approaches to thesaurusproduction", COLING82: Proceedings of theNinth International Conference onComputational Linguistics.
ed.
by J.\]lorecky',Amsterdam: North-}lo\]land, 1982, 227-232.Nagao, M., Tsu j i i ,  J .
,  t;eda, Y.,  Takiyama, M.,"An attempt to computerize dictionary dalebases", COLING80: Proceedings of tht: ~thInternational Confermme on ComputationalLinguistics, Tokyo, \]qSO, 534-542.Quillian, H.R.
, "Semantic memory'", in SemanticInformation Processing, ed.
by .~I..~li:*s ky,Cambridge (.~lass.
): }liT P ress .
1!
)68, -,,??'--;0.
""Smith,  R.N.,  "On def in ing  ad jec t ives :  par t  I I \ ] "D ic t ionar ies ,  the Journa l  of  the D ic t ionarySoc ie ty  of  North America, Winter ,  { lq~l )5 .28-38.Smith,  R.N.,  ,Haxwell, E .
,  "An Eng l i sh  d ic t ion - ryfor computer i zed  syntactic and semant icp rocess  lug" ,  in Comput at  i one \] ar, dHathematica\] Linguistics, ed.
by A.Zampo\]li,N.Calzolari, Firenze: Olschki, 1977, 303-322.Walker,  D.E .
,  Amsler,  R.A. ,  P roposa l  to  theNational  Science Foundat ion  on alJInv i ta t iona l  Workshop on Machine-Readahl~D ic t ionar ies ,  SRI, 1982 (mimeo).Z ingare l l i ,  N. ,  Vocabo lar io  de l lai ta l~99a,  Bologna: Zan iche l l i ,  1971.l ingua173
