THE D ICT IONARY SERVERMartin KayIntelligent Systems LaboratoryXerox Palo Alto Research Center3333 Coyote Hill RoadPain Alto, California 94304~ USAThe term "machine-readable dictionary" can clearly be takenin two ways.
In its stronger and better establishedinterpretation, it presumably refers to dictionaries intended formachine consumption and use as in a language processingsystem of some sort.
In a somewhat weaker sense, it has to dowith dictionaries intended for human consumption, but throughthe intermediary of a machine.
Ideally, of course, the twoenterprises would be conflated, material from a single basicstore of lexical information being furnished to different clientsin different forms.
Such a conflation would, if it could beaccomplished, be beneficial to all parties.
Certainly humanusers could surely benefit from some of the processes that themachine-oriented information in a machine-readable dictionaryusually makes available.
They can profit even more from otherprocesses pecifically oriented to the human user but whichhave not yet received much attention.
For the~e reasons, 1believe that machine-readable dictionaries should, and probablysoon will, come to replace traditional book-form dictionariesfairly soon.
1 do not have in mind machine-readabledict~ionaries that single users load into their personal machinesso much as centralized services to which individual clientssubscribe.I have spend a considerable proportion of the last two yearsdesigning and implementing a "dictionary server."
This is acomputer with a large dictionary in its file system, specificallythe Amer ican  Heritage Dictionary (for the use of which weare indebted to its publisher, Houghton-Mifflin Company),together with a variety for indices for giving rapid access to it.The machine is connected thorugh a packet-switching etworkto a large number of other computers and work stations.Through a mechanism known as "remote procedure call"(RPC), developed concurrently with the dictionary server, aprogram running on any of these other machines can executeone of a number of procedures "exported" by the server,causing the corresponding procedure to be executed in theserver and the result returned to the client as though it had allhappened in the same machine.
The client reaps severalbenefits from this mode of operation.
First, he does not have toprovide storage for this very considerable body of data, nor thetime necessary to operate on it.
Second, by consigning its careto others, he can profit from regular maintenance andimprovements resulting from experience with a largecommunity of users.
Less obvious, though perhaps moreimportant han these advantages, is the fact that he can hopeto profit from the sophisticated and specialized processingmethods available at the central ocation.The server I have built represents only a few steps towardsthe one that would provide the richness of service I can easilyimagine.
Among its present capabilities are the following: aclient can discover if a sequence of letters constitutes a wordrecognized by the dictionary even though it is presented in aninflectional variant not actually stored in the dictionary.
Themethods used to accomplished this have sound theoretical basesand generalize across a wide range of language types so thatlanguages with much richer morphological structures thanEnglish are provided for.
A client can consult the dictionaryfor the spelling of a word by presenting it with candidatespellings.
The server is able to locate entries that could bepronounced in the same way, or ways, as the candidate.
Itpresents these to the client in order of decreasing similarity tothe candidate.
If the client has difficulty recognizing theappropriate one, he can have the associated definitionspresented to him.
Definitions, etymologies, ynonyms, and soforth can be obtained in a variety of ways.
The serverundertakes the most onerous procedures that must be carriedout by a spelling correction program, namely those that relateputatively misspelled words to actual words into which they canbe transformed as a result of the kinds of error commonly madeby typists.These facilities are relatively easy to provide, using as thedata base, a machine readable version of a standard ictionary.A dictionary designed specifically for use through a dictionaryserver could do a great deal more.
For example it could presenta client with several different perspectives on a semantic fieldso as to provide a means of finding "le mot jnste," that is onthe tip of the writer's tongue.
This is the function that Rogetdesigned his thesaurus to fill and 1 believe it is such a device asthe dictionary server that will provide the first possibility ofdoing better than he.
What stands in the way of dictionaryservices of far greater utility than even the largest currentlyavailable books is not technological inadequacies, or evenshortcomings of linguistic or lexicological theory, so much as thecourage and foresight o invest in lexicographic data bases ofradical design.461
