MACHINE TRANSLATION : WHAT TYPE OF POST-EDITINGON WHAT TYPE OF DOCUMENTS FOR WHAT TYPE OF USERSAnne-Marie LAURIANCentre National de la Recherche ScientifiqueUniversitd de la Sorbonne Nouvelle - Paris III19 rue des 8ernardins, 75005 Paris (France)ABSTRACTVarious typologies of technical andseientifical texts nave already been proposeObv authors involved in multilingual transferproblems.
They were usually aimed at a betterknowledge of the criteria for deciding if adocument has to be or can be machine trans-lated.
Such a typology could also lead to abetter knowledge of the typical errors oc-curing, and so lead to more appropriatepost-editing, as well as to improvements inthe system.Raw translations being usable, as theyare quite often for rapid information needs,it is important to draw the limits between astyle adequate for rapid information, and anelegant, high qualitv style such as requiredfor information large dissemination.
Stylecould be given a new definition through alinguistic analysis based on machine trans-lation, on communication situations and onthe users' requirements and satisfaction.I .
MACHINE TRANSLATION AND POST-EDITING,A EUROPEAN EXAMPLEMachine translation is often consideredas a project, an experimental process, if notan impossible dream.
Translation theoreti-clans would sav no machine can understand themeaning of a text and re-express it in another language, so no machine can translate.The debate is about the necessity of a deepsemantic understanding for translating,opposed to a language structure knowledge tobe sufficient to produce a translation.
Theusual debate is thus about the ideal concepteach one has of what a translation should be.Translation can only be defined inparticular situations, regarding particulardocuments.
And machine translation is only tobe used for certain types of documents to behandled a certain way.HY observat ions  are based on severa ls tud ies  I car r ied  out on the SYSTRAN outputproduced in  Luxembourg w i th in  the Commissiono f  the European Communit ies.In Luxembourg the amount of documents tobe translated is not only very big, it isalso growing very fast.
The european rule isthat all official documents have to betranslated into the seven official languages;technical documents needed for conferences orexperts meetings are sometimes translatedonly in three or four languages (english,french, german, italian).
The delay availableis often very short.
That led the C.E.C.General Direction for Multilingual Transfersto promote machine translation.
When theystarted it, some six years ago, SYSTRAN wasthe only system ready to produce transla-tions.
This system, originated in the U.S.,has then been developed for the proper use ofthe Commission.The output was far from being perfect,far from being usable as it was.
Post-editingwas being done.
Even with the huge progressof the output quality, post-editing is stillnecessarY.
It will, in fact, be alwaysnecessary because as people get used to theirtranslation to be done by a computer, theirrequirements are becoming more precise.
Theerrors one would admit at an experimentalstage, are no more possible at a productivestage.Post-editing is thus becoming a newspecialization within the numerous fieldsrelated to translation.I ;  - A TYPOLOGY OF DOCUMENTSBASED ON M.T.
ERRORSAll documents are not suitable formachine translation.
Lots of negativereactions against M.T.
have been induced by awrong use of M.T.
Aware of the necessity ofdifferentiating the documents, people res-ponsible for translation proposed severaltypes of typologies.
They were mainly basedon the subject field of the text, on itsfunction, on its structure, on the sentenceand paragraph length and complexity, on theuse of particular terminologies.236The aim was to enable the chief of atranslation division to choose which textswere to be sent to a human translator, andwhich could be processed by M.T.My study of the errors remaining in theraw translations led me to propose a strictlylinguistic typology.
IThere are three major tvpes of errors :i. errors on isolated words,2.
errors on the expression of relations,3.
errors on the structure and on theinformation display.These errors are classified in threetables :i.i vocabulary, terminology1.2 proper names and abbreviations,1.3 relators : - in nominai groups,- in verbai groups,1.4 noun determinants, verbal modificators ;2.5 verb forms (tense),2.6 verb forms (passive/active) and per-sonalization (passive/non personai),2.7 expression of modaIity or not,2.8 negation ;3.9 logical relations, phrase introducers,\].10 words order,3.11 general problems of incidence.The relative frequence of these errorscan be read in my tables.These tables can be used to evaluate theprobable quantity and location of errorsexisting after M.T., i.e.
the probable quan-tity, location and type of post-editing.
Witha short training in linguistics, anyonecould get trained to use these tables.
By arapid reading of the documents to be transla-ted on the basis of these features, andaccording to the relative frequence of onecategory of probable errors or the other, onecould then easily evaluate if a documentshould be translated by a translator or issuitable for M.T.I I I  - TYPES OF POST-EDITINGThe system used in Luxembourg is stillbeing developped.
That means that errors aregetting fewer.
For instance three years agoverb forms were translated "form to form",now new rules have been introduced in orderto get a past tense for a present tense (orreverse), a passive form for an impersonaIone (or reverse), a.s.o.i cf.
A.M. Loffler-Laurian, Pour une tvpo-logie des erreurs dans la traduction automa-tique, in MULTiLINGUA, 2-2 (1983), 65-78But at the same time the variety of documentsmachine trabslated is growing.
That means newsources on errors (mainIv vocabulary, butaiso modaiities, structures, a.s.o.
).Post-editing is always necessary.
Untilnow post-editing has been done by translatorswho are wishing to do it.
The amount ofpost-editing to do is increasing every day,it becomes obvious that post-editing can't bedone just according to somebody's feeling oflanguage and style.
There has to be somerules.Post-editing is not revision, norcorrection, nor rewriting.
It is a new way ofconsidering a text, a new wav of working onit, for a new aim.
In order to define thecharacteristics of post-editing, I carriedout a study on the two major types of post-editing as they appear in the C.E.C.
2i.
The conventional post-editing (C.P.E.)
issupposed to produce a text as similar aspossibie to what a human translation wouldhave been, that means a high qualitytext.2.
The rapid post-editing (R.P.E.)
issupposed to produce a correct text (on thelanguage level as well as on the level ofthe meaning) but without taking care ofthe stvie.In the experiment I carried out, timerequired for post-editing was the onlycriteria to differenciate these two methods.It appeared that special Iinguistical at-titudes were induced by time Iimitation.
Astatistical survey of C.P.E.
and R.P.E.
showsthe limits between :I. necessary post-editing,2.
possible post-editing,3.
superfluous post-editing.First group includes all post-editingthat has to be done to make the text under-standabie, clear, readable, exact.
Secondgroup inciudes some research in style focusedon the adaptation to the communicationsituation, to the author and to the presumedreader.
Third group is post-editing done bYpeopIe who didn't want to admit that perfec-tion was not the aim, and that a documentthat will be read quickIy and thrown awayimmediateIv ooes not require the same styleas a oocument that will be pubiished andlargeiv distributed.
These people usuaIlycould not give out their R.P.E.
in thelimited time allowed for it.2 cf.
A.M.L.L., Post-~dition conventionnelle tpost-6dition rapide~ vers une m6thodologie dela post-~dition, to be published.237In rapid post-editing one has to focuson the central information, and is naturallykept out from the temptation of rewriting thesentence were errors occur.
Then the post-editor finds the shortest solution, which isusually the right one.
By staying very closeto the raw translation, post-editors succeedin giving a good and acceptable translation.Those who, after having post-editedaccording to the minimal requirements, try tomake the text fit better the usual style theyknow, give us indications to point out thedifference between :- a text that is correct according tostandard language rules,- a text that obeys the usage rules in use onthat level of documents or level oflanguage (some "sub-rules" specific to somespecialized f ields,  authors, s ituations).IV - STYLE, SITUATIONS AND USERSStyle in literature is usually definedas the specific way an author writes.
Dotechnical and scientific documents have aspecific style ?
Many people would agree onthe idea that these documents have no style-or have a neutral stYle-.
In terms oflinguistic features, they can be described aswell as any other writing.
However thenon-apparent aspect of style in informativedocuments is an important component of theirability to be machine translated.
In a novel,the style of the author would be its mainvalue whereas in an informative document, thetransparency of style, its leaving the readerunaware of it would be essential.
Even more :if style were to be felt, the informationwould most probably loose some of itsaccuracy and credibility.In every translation situation theauthor has some information to transmit to auser.
Let it be a technical or a politicalinformation, a scientific or a social infor-mation, the goal may be double : have thereader know more about a question (thatrelates to didactics), and have the readerreact in a specific way to the text.
Regar-ding this second goal, the best style, mostadequate, would be the one that would bringthe reader to the point the author wantedhim.
The neutrality of a computerized systemis quite fitted to that situation.
And theminimal post-editing creates often the beststyle.The users' satisfaction should be theultimate criterion to evaluate the adequacyof a style.Are readers getting used to some newstyle based on machine translation ?
Somepeople fear for the future of their language:it could evolve uncontrolled because of a newkind of users getting used to some newvariety of language induced by a new tool fortranslation.
They fear a loss of somelinguistical property.
Languages have alwaysbeen exposed to multiple influences (wars,invasions, economical trends, culturalexchanges, a.s.o.).
They are now exposed totechnical influences.Machine translation is already used bytranslation services.
It will certainly besoon used by private translators (varioussystems are developped or under developmentin several countries).
It could be used withgreat profit by linguists and professors tohelp them think about their own use oflanguage, about the varieties of specializeduses of language, and about the futureprogrammes that could be built up for newgenerations of students.REFERENCES- MULTILINGUA, a journal of interlanguagecommunication, Mouton publishers,see : G. Van Slype, 1-4 (1982), 221-237A.M.
Loffler-Laurian, 2-2 (1983),65-78I.M.
Pigott, 2-3 (1983), 149-156- CONTRASTES, a journal of contrastivelinguistics, ADEC publisher,see : J. Humbley, N ?
7, Nov. 1983, 35-47M.
King, N a A), 1983, 53-59A.M.
Loffler-Laurian, S. Krsuwer & L.Des Tombe, M.C.
Bourquin-Launey, X.Huang, G. Bourquin, J.L.
Vidalenc; R.Johnson, J.M.
Zemb, N ?
A4 ("Traduc-tion automatique - aspects europ~-ens"), 1984, 167 pp.238
