THERE STILL IS GOLD IN THE DATABASE MINEMadeleine BatesBBN Laboratories10 Moulton StreetCambridge, MA 02238Let me state clearly at the outset that Idisagree with the premise that the problem ofinterfacing to database systems has outlived itsusefulness as a productive environment for NLresearch.
But I can take this stand strongly onlyby being very liberal in defining both "naturallanguage interface" and "database systems".same as "Are there any vice presidents who areeither male or female".
This same system, whenasked for all the Michigan doctors and Pennsylvaniadentists, produced a list of all the people whowere either doctors or dentists and who lived ineither Michigan or Pennsylvania.
This is the stateof our art?Instead of assuming that the problem is one ofusing typed English to access and/or update a fileor files in a single database system, let us definea spectrum of potential natural language interfaces(limiting that phrase, for the moment, to meantyped English sentences) to various kinds ofinformation systems.
At one end of this spectrumis simple, single database query, in which thetranslation from NL to the db system is quitedirect.
This problem has been addressed by seriousresearchers for several years, and, if one is tomeasure productivity in terms of volume, has provedits worth by the number of papers published andpanels held on the subject.
Indeed, it has been sodeeply mined that the thought "Oh, no!
Not anotherpanel on natural language interfaces to databasesl"has resulted in this panel, which is supposed todebate the necessity of continuing work in thisarea rather than to debate technical issues in thearea.
And yet if this problem has been solved,where is the solution?
Where are the applicationsof this research?True, commercial natural language accessinterfaces for some database systems have beenavailable for several years, and new ones are beingadvertised every month.
Yet these systems are,now, not very capable.
For example, one of thesesystems carried on the following sequence ofexchar~es with me:User: Are all the vice presidents male?System: Yes.User: Are any of the vice presidentsfemale?System: Yes.User: Are any of the male vice presidentsfemale?System: Yes.Nothing was unusual about either this databaseor the corporate officers represented in it.
Thesystem merely made no distinction between "all" and"any", and interpreted the final query to mean theBut, you are probably thinking, those examplesdon't illustrate research problems that need to beworked on; they are problems that were "solved"years ago.
But I contend that it is not enough tostrip broad areas of research and develop isolatedtheories to account for those areas, because theresult is similar to that of strip mining coal:local profit followed by more global losses.
It ismore beneficial to choose a limited area (such asdatabase interfaces, perhaps extended a bit asdescribed below) and mine it very deeply, notnecessarily discovering every aspect of the domainbut requiring that the various aspects beintegrated with one another to produce a coherentwhole.Even in the most simple database accessenvironment, one can find in natural queries andcommands examples involving meta-knowledge ("Whatcan you tell me about X?
"), presupposition (Q: "Howmany students failed Math 108 last semester?"
A:"Math 108 wasn't given last semester.
"), and othernot-yet-mined-out topics.
Extending the notion ofdatabase access to one of knowledge-base accesswhere information may be manipulated in morecomplex ways, it is easy to generate naturalexamples of counterfactual conditionals ("If Ihadn't sold my IBM stock and had invested mysavings in that health spa for cats, what would mynet worth be now?
"), word sense ambiguity (the word"yield" is ambiguous if there is both financial andproductivity data in the knowledge base), and othercomplex linguistic phenomena.Let us go on to define the other end of thespectrum I began to explicate above.
At this endlles a conversational system for query, display,update, and interaction in which the system actslike a helpful, intelligent, knowledgeableassistant.
In this situation, the user carries ona dialogue (perhaps using speech) using language inexactly the same way s/he would interact with ahuman assistant.
The system being interfaced towould, in this case, be much more complex than a184single database; it might include a number ofdifferent types of databases, an "expert system" ortwo, fancy display capabilities, and other goodies.In this environment, the user will quite naturallyemploy a wider variety of linguistic forms andspeech acts than when interfacing to a simple dbsystem.One criticism of the simple db interfaces isthat the interpretive process of mapping fromlanguage concepts onto database concepts issufficiently unlike the interpretation proceduresfor other uses of natural language that the dbdomain is an inappropriate model for study.
Butnot all of the db interfaces, simple or morecomplex, perform such a direct translation.
Thereis a strong argument to be made for understandinglanguage in a fairly uniform way, with little or noinfluence from the fact that the activity to beperformed after understanding is db access asopposed to some other kind of activity.The point of the spectrum is that there is acontinuum from "database" to "knowledge base", andthat the supposed limitations of one arise from theapplication of techniques that are not powerfulenough to generalize to the other.
The fault liesin the inadequate theories, not in the problemenvironment, and radically changing the problemenvironment will not guarantee the development ofbetter theories.
By relaxing one constraint at atime (in the direction of access to update, onedatabase system to many, a database system to aknowledge-based system, simple presentation ofanswers to more complex resonses, static databasesto dynamic ones, etc.
), the research environmentcan be enriched while still providing both a baseto build on and a way to evaluate results based onwhat has been done before.~9_~ Research ~ Related to DatabasesHere are a few of the areas which can beconsidered extensions of the current interest indatabase interfaces and in which considerableresearch is needed.
Large, shiny nuggets of theoryare waiting to be discovered by enterprisingcomputational linguists!I.
Speech input.
Interest in speech input tosystems is undergoing a revival in both researchand applications.
Several "voice typewriters" arelikely to be marketed soon, and will probably haveless capability than the typed natural languageinterfaces have today.
But, technical andtheoretical problems of speech recognition aside,natural spoken language is different linguisticallyfrom natural written language, and there remains alot of work to be done to understand the exactnature of these differences and to develop ways tohandle them.2.
"Real language".or spoken) languageungrammaticalities,telegraphic compression,By which is meant (writtencomplete with errors,Jargon, abbreviations,etc.
Research in theseareas has been going on for some time and shows nosign of running dry.3.
Generating language.
An intelligent databaseinterface assistant should be able to interjectcomments as appropriate, in addition to displayingretrieved data.4.
Extended dialogues.
What do we really knowabout handling more than a few sentences ofcontext?
How can a natural conversation be carriedon when only one of the conversants produceslanguage?
If able to generate language as well asto understand it, a database assistant could carryon a natural conversation with the user.5.
Different types of data bases and data.
Byextending the notion of a static, probablyrelational, database to one that changes in realtime, contains large amounts of textual data, or ismore of a knowledge base than a data base, one canmanipulate the kind of language that a user would"naturally" use to access such a system, forexample, complex tense, time, and modalityexpressions are almost entirely absent from simpledatabase query, but this need not be the case.All of this is not to say that all the researchproblems in computational linguistics can becarried on even in the extended context of databaseaccess.
It is rather a plea for careful individualevaluation of problems, with a bias toward buildingon work that has already been done.This environment is a rich one.
We can chooseto strip it carelessly of the easy-to-gathernuggets near the surface and then go on to anotherenvironment, or we can choose to mine it as deeplyas we can for as long as it is productive.
Whichwill our future colleagues thank us for?185
