WHEN IS THE NEXT ALPAC REPORT DUE ?Margaret KINGDalle MolIe Institute for Semantic and Cognitive StudiesUniversity of GenevaSwitzerland~.~chine translation has a scme%~at checqueredhistory.
There were already proposals for autcmatictranslation systems in the 30's, but it was notuntil after the second world war that real enthu-siasm led to heavy funding and unrealistic expec-tations.
Traditionally, the start of intensivework on machine translation is taken as being amemorand~n of Warren Weaver, then Director of theNatural Sciences Division of the RockefellerFoundation, in 1949.
In this memorandL~n, called'Translation', Weaver took stock of earlier workdone by Booth and Richens.
He likened the problemof machine translation to the problem of codebreaking, for which digital cc~uters had beenused with considerable success : "It is verytempting to say that a book written in Chineseis s i l l y  a book written in English which wascoded into the 'Chinese code'.
If we have usefulmethods for solving almost any cryptographic pro-blem, may it not be that with proper interpreta-tion we already have useful methods for transla-tion?"
(Weaver, 1949).Weaver's m~rorand~ led to a great deal ofactivity in resoarch on machine translation, andeventually to the first conference on the topic,organised by Bar-Hillel in 1952.
At this confe-rence, optimism reigned.
Afterwards, tea~s in anumber of American universities pursued researchalong the general lines agreed at the conferenceto be fruitful.
At Georgetown University, L.E.Dostert started up a machine translation projectwith the declared aim of building a pilot systemto convince potential funding agencies of thefeasibility and the practicability of machinetranslation.
This led in 1954 to the famousGeorgetown experiment, a pilot system translatingfrom Russian to English, which was hailed as anunqualified success: during the next ten yearsover 20 million dollars were invested in machinetranslation by various US government agencies.An idea of the anount of resoarch between1956 and 1959 can be gained by considering that inthose years no fewer than twelve research groupswere established in the US, a number of groupsin the USSR ca~e into existence, most within theAcademy of Sciences in Moscow, and two BritishUniversities were carrying on research.Most of the systems developed were based onwhat Buchmann (1984) has called a 'brute force'approach: Syntactic analysis was only done ata local word-centred level, both so-called syntaxand dictionary cc~pilation ~ere very narrowlycorpus based, and thus almost totally empirical.Indeed, the problem of machine translation wasperceived as being an engineering problem requir-ing clever programming rather than linguisticinsight.By_ the late 1960"s, workers in mch ine  trans-lation themselves had begun to see that the enpi-rical approach was unsatisfactory.
The Europeanprojects begun in the early 1960's at Grenobleand Milan reflect this, as does the work of thegroup sot up in Montreal in 1962.
These groupsbased their work from the start on clear theore-tical foundations (dependency theory in Grenoble,correlational grammar in Milan, transformationaltheory in Montreal).However, the growing perception that bruteforce was not enough came too late to save re-search in the US.
In 1964, the US National Academyof Sciences set up an investigatory committee,the Autcmatic Language Processing Advisory C~n-mlttee (ALPAC), with the task of investigatingthe results so far obtained and advising on fur-ther funding.
The committee, in setting up a fra~e-work for assessing machine translation, consideredsuch questions as quality and effectiveness ofh~an translation, t_he time and money requiredfor scientists to learn Russian, amounts spentfor translation within the US goverrfaent and theneed for translations and translators.
Based onsuch criteria, the committee care to a strongnegative conclusion '... we do not have usefulmachine translation.
Further, there is no imme-diate or predictable prospect of useful machinetranslation '.The ALPAC report effectively killed machinetranslation research in the States, although someEuropean projects survived.In the years since the ALPAC report, a numberof commercial systems has been developed, some ofthem, ironically, based on the very system soroundly condemned by the ALPAC conndttee.
Twotrends can he distinguished: systems, such asSYSTRAN, which still aim at no significant humanintervention during the translation process, butaccept pre- and/or post-editing, and interactivesystems which aim primarily at being translators'aids, such as Weidner or Alps.352In recent years, partially because the deve-lopment of commercial systems renewed faith in thefeasibility of mad%ine translation, partiallybecause of the results achievt~ by the survivingres~ar~--h projects, above all because of the grow-ing and pressing need for tramslation, research inmachine translation has begun to revive.
At therecreant, the European Ccnmunity is sponsoring alarge research and development programme, Francehas a National Project on machine translation, avery large ntm~r of projects are being funded inJapan and a German Corporation is proposingmercial development of a system developed at theUniversity of Texas.There are people who see strong parallelsbetween the present situation and that ~ate lybefore the publication of the ALPAC report, fore-seeing a second 'failure' for machine translationas a discipline.
Others believe that advances inlinguistics and in computer science, together withthe results of the last twenty years, justify acautious optimism, especially when the more rea-listic expectations of today's research workers(and of their funding authorities) are taken intoaccount.The panel discussion will aim at clarifyingsimilarities and differences in the two statesof the world, weighing both scientific conside-rations and other relevant factors.The availability of Buc~m~%n (1984) greatlyfacilitated the writing of the first part of thispanel paper.
I would like to record my thanks toits author.REFERENCESALPAE, 1966.
Language and Machines{ C~ters  inTranslation and Linguistics.
Washington D.C.,Publication 1416, National Academy of Sciences.Buchmann, B.
Early His.tor~ of Machine Translation..Paper prepared for the Lugano Tutorial onMachine Translation, April 1984.Wea%~r, W. Translation.
New York, 1949.
Mimeo.353
