THE RESOLUTION OF QUANTIFICATIONAL AMBIGUITY IN THE TENDUM SYSTEMHarry BuntComputational Linguistics Research UnitDept.
of Language and Literature, Tilburg UniversityP.O.Box 90153, 5000 LE TilburgThe NetherlandsABSTRACTA method is described for handling theambiguity and vagueness that is often foundin quantifications - the semantically complexrelations between nominal and verbalconstituents.
In natural language certainaspects of quantification are often leftopen; it is argued that the analysis ofquantification in a model-theoretic frameworkshould use semantic representations in whichthis may also be done.
This paper shows a formfor such a representation and how "ambiguous"representations are used in an elegant andefficient procedure for semantic analysis,incorporated in the TENDUM dialogue system.The quantification ambi~uit\[ explosionproblemQuantification is a complex phenomenonthat occurs whenever a nominal and a verbalconstituent are combined in such a way thatthe denotation of the verbal constituent ispredicated of arguments supplied by the(denotation of the) nominal constituent.This gives rise to a number of questions suchas (i) What objects serve as predicatearguments?
(2) Of how many objects is thepredicate true?
(3) How many objects areconsidered as potential arguments of thepredicate?When we consider these questions for asentence with a few noun phrases, we readilysee that the sentence has a multitude ofpossible interpretations.
Even a sentencewith only one NP such as(I) Five boats were liftedhas a variety of possible readings, dependingon whether the boats were lifted individually,collectively, or in groups of five, and onwhether the total number of boats involvedis exactly five or at least five.
For asentence with two numerically quantifiedNPs, such as 'Three Russians visited fiveFrenchmen', Partee (1975) distinguished 8readings depending on whether the Russiansand the Frenchmen visited each other indivi-dually of collectively and on the relativescopes of the quantifiers.
Partee's analysisis in fact still rather crude; a somewhatmore refined analysis, which distinguishesgroup readings and readings with equally widescope of the quantifiers, leads to 30 inter-pretations (Bunt, in press).This presents a problem for any attemptat a precise and systematic description ofsemantic structures in natural language.
Onthe one hand an articulate analysis ofquantification Js needed for obtaining thedesired interpretations of every sentence,while on the other hand we do not want to endup with dozens of interpretations for everysentence.To some extent this "ambiguity explosionproblem" is an artefact of the usual methodof formal semantic analysis.
In this methodsentences are translated into formulae of alogical language, the truth conditions ofwhich are determined by model-theoretic in-terpretation rules.
Now one might want toconsider a sentence like (i) not as ambiguous,but only as saying that five boats were lifted,w~thout specifying how they were lifted.
Buttranslation of the sentence into a logicalrepresentation forces one to be specific.
Thatis, the logical representation languagerequires distinction between such interpreta-tions as represented by (2) (individualreading) and (3) (group reading):(2) ~({x  e BOATS: LIFTED(x)}) = 5(3) 3 x E{  y C BOATS:~ (y) = 5} : LIFTED(x)I n  other words, the analysis framework forcesus to make distinctions which we might notalways want to make.To tackle this problem, I have devised amethod of representing quantified expressionsin a logical language with the possibility ofleaving certain quantification aspects open.This method has been implemented in the TENDUMdialogue system, developed jointly at theInstitute for Perception Research in Eindhovenand the Computational Linguistics ResearchUnit at Tilburg University, Department ofLinguistics (Bunt, 1982; ~983; Bunt & thoeSchwartzenberg, 1982;).
This method is notonly of theoretical interest, but also pro-vides a computationally efficient treatmentof quantification.Ambiguity resolutionIn a semantic analysis system whichtranslates natural language expressions intoformal representations, all disambiguationtakes place during this translation.130This applies both to purely lexical ambiguities andto structural ambiguities.
For lexical disambigua-tion this means that a lexical item has severaltranslations in the representation language (RL),which are all produced by a dictionary lookup atthe beginning of the analysis.
The generation ofsemantic representations for sentences that displayboth lexical and structural ambiguity thus takesplace as depicted in Fig.
i:" ~ Z;\];~;;ZNL ~ RL ........ model \ " ~ ......... /\ ~- " -~ ;;;Z;;;?
~ .
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
/dictionary application of interpre-lookup grammar rules tationFig.
i Longer arrows indicate larger amount ofprocessing.Since the lexical ambiguities considered here arepurely semantic, the same grammar rules will beapplicable to all the lexical interpretations(assuming that the grammar does not contain worldknowledge to filter out those interpretations thatare meaningless in the discourse domain underconsideration).
Since the amount of processinginvolved in the application of grammar rules isvery large compared to that of translating a lexi-cal item to its RL instances, this set-up is notvery efficient.
In the PHLIQAI question-answeringsystem (Bronnenberg et al, 1980) the syntactic/semantic and lexical processing stages were there-fore reversed, so that disambiguation takes placeas depicted in Fig.
2:NL ?
: : : : ::::  oO0Ol/ ........ /;;-_222;2 /application of dictionary Interpre-grammar rules lookup rationFig.
2 Longer arrows indicate larger amount ofprocessing.In this setup an intermediate representationlanguage is u~ed which is identical to RL exceptthat is has an ambiguous constant for every contentword of the natural language.It turns out that semantic analysis alongthese lines can be formulated entirely in terms ofthe traditional model-theoretic framework (Bunt,in press), therefore this method is appropriatelycalled two-level model-theoretic semantics.
Thismethod has been implemented in the TENDUM system,with an intermediate representation language thatcontains ambiguous constants corresponding toquantification aspects, in addition to ambiguousconstants corresponding to nouns, verbs, etc.Quantification aspectsThe different aspects of quantification areclosely related to the semantic functions ofdeterminers.
These functions depend on theirsyntactic position in a determiner sequence.
Afull-fledged basic noun phrase has the layout:(4) pre- + central + post- + headdeterminer determiner determiner noun(see Quirk et al, 1972, p.146).
For example, inthe NP(5) All my four childrenthe centraldeterminer 'my' restricts the range ofreference of the head noun 'children' to the setof my children; the predeterminer 'all' indicatesthat a predicate, combined with the noun phrase toform a proposition, is associated with all themembers of that set, and the postdeterminer 'four'expresses the presupposition that the set consistsof four elements.
This set is determined by thecentral determiner plus the denotation of the headnoun; I will call it the source of the quantifica-tion.
In the case of an NP without centraldeterminer the source is the denotation of the headnoun.
For the indication of the quantity orfraction of that part of the source that is invol-ved in a predication I will use the term sourceinvolvement.Quantification owes its name to the fact thatsource involvement is often made explicit by meansof quantitative (pre-)determiners like 'five','many', 'all',or 'two liters of'.
Obviously, sourceinvolvement is a central aspect of quantification.Another important aspect of quantification isillustrated by the following sentences:(6a) The chairs were lifted by all the boys(6b) The chairs were lifted by each of the boysThese sentences differ in that (6b) saysunambiguously that every one of the boys lifted thechairs, whereas (6a) is unspecific as to what eachindividual boy did: it only says that the chairswere lifted and that all the boys were involved inthe lifting, but it does not specify, for instance,whether every one of the boys lifted the chairs orall the boys together lifted the chairs.
Thequantifiers 'all' and 'each (of)' thus bothindicate complete involvement of the source, butdiffer in their determination of how a predicate('lifted the chairs') is applied to the source.
'Each' indicates that the predicate is applied tothe individual members of the source; 'all' leavesopen whether the predicate is applied to individualmembers, to groups of meubers, or to the sourcesas a whole.
To designate the way in which a pre-dicate is applied to, or "distributed over", thesource of a quantification, I use the termdistribution.
A way of expressing the distributionof a quantification is by specifying the class ofobjects that the predicate is applied to, and howthis class is related to the source.
In thedistributive case this class is precisely the :131source; in the collective case it is the sethaving the source as its only element.
I willrefer to the class of objects that the predicate isapplied to as the domain of the quantification.
Thedistribution of a quantification over an NPdenotation can be viewed as specifying how thedomain can be computed from the source.
Wheredomain = source I will speak of individual distri-bution, where domain = {source} of collectivedistribution.Individual and collective are not the onlypossible distributions.
Consider the sentence(7) All these machines assemble 12 parts.This sentence may describe a situation in whichcertain machines assemble sets of twelve parts,i.e.
a relation between individual machines andgroups of twelve parts.
If PARTS is the set denotedby 'parts', the direct object quantification domainis ~I~(PARTS), the subset of ~(PARTS) containingonly ?~ose subsets of PARTS that have twelvemembers.
I call this type of distribution groupdistribution.
In this case the numerical quantif ierindicates group size.A slightly different form of "groupquantification" is found in the sentence(8) Twelve men conspired.In view of the collective nature of conspiring, itwould seem that 'twelve' should again be inter-preted as indicating group size, so that thesentence may be represented by(9) B x E ~12(MEN): CONSPIRE(x)However, as the existential quantifier brings outclearly, this interpretation would leave open thepossiblity that several groups of 12 men conspired,which is probably not what was intended.
The moreplausible interpretation, where exactly one groupof 12 men conspired, I will call the strong groupreadinq of the sentence, and the other one theweak group reading.
On the strong group readingthe quantifier 'twelve' has a double function: itindicates both source involvement and group size.In a sentence like(i0) The crane lifted the tubesthere is no indication as to whether the tubes werelifted one by one (individual distribution), two bytwo (weak group distribution with group size 2),one-or-two by one-or-two (weak group distributionwith group size I-2), ..., or all in one go(collective distribution).
The quantification isunspecific in this respect.
In such a case I willsay that the distribution is unspecific.
If S isthe source of the quantification, the domain is inthis case the set consisting of the elements of Sand the plural subsets of S.Distribution and source involvement are thetwo central aspects of quantification that I willfocus on here.Quantification in two-level model-theoreticsemanticsConsider a non-intensional verb, denoting aone-place predicate P (a function from individualsto truth values), which is combined with a nounphrase with associated source S (a set of indivi-duals).
The quantification then predicates thesource involvement of the set of those elements ofthe quantification domain, defined by S and thedistribution, for which P is true.
This can berepresented by a formula of the following form:(ii) S- INVOLVEMENT({xeQUANT.DOMAIN: P(x) } )For example, consider the representation of thereadings of sentence (I) 'Five boats were lifted',with individual, collective, and weak and stronggroup distribution:(12a) (Az:~z)=5) ({x ~ BOATS: LIFTED(x)})(12b) (~z:~(z)>l) ({x 6 ~(BOATS)  : LIFTED(x)})(12c) (Az:~z)=l)  ({x q~(BOATS) :  LIFTED(x)})(12d) (Az:~z)=5) (UBoATSD({X e BOATS U ~+ (BOATS) :LIFTED(x) }) )where~+(S)  denotes the set of plural subsets of S.The notation U (D) is used to represent the set ofS ,1 those members of S occuring in D"; the precisedefinition is:(13) Us(D) = {xES:  xED v (B yED:  x6y)}Note that in all cases the quantification domain isclosely related to the source in a way determinedby the distribution.
I have claimed above that thedistribution can be construed as a function thatcomputes the quantification domain, given thesource.
Indeed, this can be acomplished by meadsof a function of two arguments, one being thesource and the other the group size, in the caseof a group distribution.
A little bit of formulamanipulation readily shows that all the formulas(12a-d) can be cast in the form(14) (lz: N(Us(Z) ) )  ({xed(k,S):  P(x) } )where S represents the quantification source,~z :  N(U_ (z))) the source involvement, k the groupsize, an~ d the "distribution function" computingthe quantification domain.
(For technical detailsof this representation see Bunt, in press).
Themost interesting point to note about this represen-tation is that the distribution of the quantif ica-tion, which in other treatments is always reflec-ted in the syntactic structure of the representa-tion, corresponds to a term of the representationlanguage here.
For this term we substituteexpressions like ~k,S:~k(S)) to obtain a particu-lar interpretation.I will now indicate how representations ofthe form (14) are constructed in the TENDUM system.The construction of quantificationrepresentation in the TENDUM systemThe TENDUM system uses a gra~nar consistingof phrase-structure rules augmented with semanticrules that construct a representation of a rewrit-ten phrase from those of its constituents (seeBunt, 1983).
For the sentence 'Five boats werelifted' this works as follows.The number 'five' is represented in thelexicon as an item of syntactic category'number'with representation '5'.
To this item, a ruleapplies that constructs a syntactic structure ofcategory'numera~ with representation132(Ay:~ (y)=5), which I abbreviate as FIVE.
TO thisstructure a rule applies that constructs asyntactic structure of category 'determiner withrepresentation(15) (AX:  (AP: FIVE(Ux({XEd(FIVE,X): P(x) } ))))A rule constructing a syntactic structure of cate-gory'noun phrase" from a determiner and a nominal(inthe simplest case: a noun) applies to 'five' and'boats', combining their representations byapplying (15) as a function to the noun representa-tion BOATS.
After l-conversion, this results in(16) (AP: FIVE(t)BOATS( {xEd(FIVE,  BOATS): P(x)})))A rule constructing a sentence from a noun phraseand a verb applies to 'five boats' and 'werelifted', combining their representations byapplying (16) as a function to the verb representa-tion LIFTED.
After l-conversion, this results in(17)  :(17) FIVE~3BOATs({XEd(FIVE , BOATS): P(x)} ))NOW suppose the sentence is interpreted relativeto a domain of discourse where we have such boatsand lifting facilities that it is impossible formore than one boat to be lifted at the same time.This is reflected in the fact that the RL predicateLIFTED r is of such a type that it can only apply toindividual boats.
Assuming that the ambiguousconstant BOATS has the single instance BOATS and r that LIFTED has the single instance(Az: LIFTED (z)), the instantiation rules, con-strained byrthe type restrictions of RL, willproduce the representation:(18) FIVE(UBOAT S ({xEBOATSr: LIFTEDr(X) } ))r(For the instantiation process see Bunt, in press,chapter 7.)
This is readily seen to beequivalent to the more familiar form:(19) #( {xEBOATS : LIFTED (x)}) = 5 r rIf, in addition to, or instead of the distributivereading we want to generate another reading of thesentence, then we extend or modify the instantia-tion function for LIFTED accordingly.This shows how the analysis method generatesthe representations of only those interpretationswhich are relevant in a given domain of discourse,and does so without generating intermediaterepresentations as artefacts of the use of alogical representation language.ReferencesBronnenberg, W.J., Bunt, H.C., Landsbergen, S.P.J.,Scha, RoJ.H., Schoenmakers, W.J., van Utter,n,E.P.C.
(1979) The question answering systemPHLIQAI.
In L.Bolc (ed.
), Natural communica-tion with computers, McMillan, London; HanserVerlag, M~nehen.Bunt, H.C. (1982) The IPO Dialogue Project.
SIGARTNewsletter 80.Bunt, H.C. (1983) A grammar formalism withaugmented phrase-construction rules.
IPOAnnual Progress Report 18.Bunt, HoC.
(in press) Mass terms and model-theoretic semantics.
Cambridge UniversityPres s.Bunt, H.C. and thoe Schwartzenberg, G.O.
(1982)Syntactic, semantic and pragmatic parsing fora natural language dialogue system.
IPO AnnualProgress Report 17.Partee, B.
(IJ975) Comments on C.J.
Fillmore's andN.
Chemsky's papers.
In: D.Austerlltz (ed) Thescope of American linguistics.
De RidderPress, Lisse ?Quirk, R., Greenbaum, S., Leech, G., and Svartvik,J.
(1972) A grammar of contemporary English.Longman, London.133
