ON PARSING PREFERENCESLenhart K. SchubertDepartment of Computing ScienceUniversity of Alberta, EdmontonAbstract.
It is argued that syntactic preferencepr inciples such as Right Associat ion and MinimalAttachment are unsat isfactory as usuallyformulated.
Among the di f f icult ies are: (I)dependence on i l l -specif ied or implausiblepr inciples of parser operation; (2) dependence onquest ionable assumptions about syntax; (3) lack Ofprovision, even in principle, for integrat ion withsemantic and pragmatic  preference principles; and(4) apparent counterexamples,  even when discounting(I)-(3).
A possible approach to a solution issketched.I.
Some preference pr inciplesThe fol lowing are some standard kinds ofsentences i l lustrat ing the role of syntacticpreferences.
(I) John bought the book which I had selected forMary(2) John promised to visit frequently(3) The girl in the chair with the spindly legslooks bored(4) John carr ied the grocer ies for Mary(5) She wanted the dress on that rack(6) The horse raced past the Darn fell(7) The boy got fat melted(I) (3) i l lustrate Right Associat ion of PP'sand adverbs, i.e., the preferred associat ion ofthese modif iers with the r ightmost verb (phrase) ornoun (phrase) they can modify (Kimball 1973).
Somevariants of Right Associat ion (also character izedas Late Closure or Low Attachment) which have Deanproposed are Final  Arguments (Ford et al 1982) andShift ing Preference (Shieber 1983); the former isroughly Late Closure restr icted to the lastobl igatory const i tuent and any fol lowing optionalconst i tuents of verb phrases, whi le the latter isLate Closure with in the context of an LR(1) shift-reduce parser.Regarding (4), it would seem that according toRight Associat ion the PP for Mar~ should bepreferred as postmodif ier  of grocer ies rather thancarried; yet the opposite is the case.
Frazier &Fodor's (1979) explanat ion is based on the assumedphrase structure rules VP -> V NP PP, and NP ->NP PP: attachment of the PP into the VP minimizesthe resultant number of nodes.
This pr inc ip le ofMinimal Attachment is assumed to take precedenceover Right Association.
Ford et al's (1982) variantis Invoked Attachment, and Shieber's (1983) variantis Maximal Reduction; roughly speaking, the formeramounts to early closure of no___nn-final constituents,whi le the latter chooses the longest reductionamong those possible reductions whose init ialconstituent is "strongest" (e.g., reducing V NP PPto VP is preferred to reducing NP PP to PP).In (5), Minimal Attachment would predictassociat ion of the PP on that rack with wanted,while the actual  preference is for associat ion withdress.
Both Ford et al and Shieber account forthis fact by appeal to lexical preferences: forFord et al, the strongest form of want takes an NPcomplement only, so that Final Arguments prevails;for Shieber, the NP the dress is stronger thanwanted, v iewed as a V requir ing NP and PPcomplements, so that the shorter reductionprevails.sentence (6) leads most people "down the gardenpath", a fac t  explainable in terms of MinimalAttachment or its variants.
The explanat ion alsoworks for (7) (in the case  of Ford et al withappeal to the addit ional  pr inc ip le that re-analysisof complete phrases requir ing re-categor izat ion oflexical const i tuents is not possible).
Purportedly,this is an advantage over Marcus' (1980) parsingmodel, whose three-phrase buffer should al lowtrouble-free pars ing of (7).2.
Problems with the preference pr inciples2.1 Dependence on i l l -speci f ied or implausiblepr inciples of parser operation.Frazier & Fodor's (1979) model does notcompletely speci fy what structures are built aseach new word is accommodated.
Consequent ly  it ishard to tel l  exact ly what the effects Of theirpreference pr inc ip les are.Shieber 's  (1983) shi f t -reduce parser is wel l -defined.
However, it postu lates complete phrasesonly, whereas human parsing appears to involveintegration of completely analyzed phrases intolarger, incomplete phrases.
Consider for examplethe fol lowing sentence Deginnings:(8) So I says to the ...(9) The man reconci led hersel f  to the ...(10) The news announced on the ...(11) The reporter  announced on the ...(12) John beat a rather hasty and undigni f ied ...People presented with complete, spoken sentencesbeginning like (8) and (9) are able to signaldetect ion of the errors about two or threesyl lables after their occurrence.
Thus agreement247features appear to propagate upward from incompleteconstituents.
(10) and (11) suggest that evensemantic features (logical translat ions?)
arepropagated before phrase completion.
The"premature" recognit ion of the id iom in (12)provides further evidence for early integrat ion ofpart ial  structures.These considerat ions appear to favour a "full-paths" parser which integrates each successive word(in possibly more ways than one) into acomprehensive parse tree (with overlaidalternatives) spanning all of the text processed.Ford et al.
's (1982) parser does developcomplete top-down paths, but the nodes on thesepaths dominate no text.
Nodes postulated bottom-upextend only one level above complete nodes.2.2 Dependence on quest ionable assumptionsab____out syntaxThe successful  predict ion of observedpreferences in (4) depended on an assumpt ion thatPP postmodi f iers  are added to carr ied via the ruleVP -> V NP PP and to grocer ies via the rule NP ->NP PP.
However, these rules fail to do justice tocertain systematic s imi lar i t ies between verbphrases and noun phrases, evident in such pairs as(13) John loudly quarreled with Mary in thekitchen(14) John's loud quarrel  with Mary in the kitchenWhen the analyses are al igned by postu lat ing twolevels of postmodi f icat ion for both verbs andnouns, the accounts of many examples thatsupposedly involve Minimal Attachment (or MaximalReduction) are spoiled.
These include (4) as wellas standard examples involving non-preferredrelat ive clauses, such as(15) John told the gir l  that he loved the story(16) Is the block sitt ing in the box?2.3 Lack of provis ion for integrat ion withsemant ic /pragmatic  preference pr inc ip lesRight Associat ion and Minimal Attachment (andtheir variants) are typical ly presented aspr inciples which prescr ibe part icu lar  parserchoices.
As such, they are simply wrong, since thechoices often do not coincide with human choicesfor text which is semantical ly or pragmat ica l lybiased.For example, there are conceivable contexts inwhich the PP in (4) associates with the verb, or inwhich (7) is trouble-free.
(For the latter, imaginea story in which a young worker in a shorteningfactory toi ls long hours melt ing down hog fat inc lar i fy ing vats.)
Indeed, even isolated sentencesdemonstrate the effect of semantics:(~7) John met the gir l  that he married at a dance(\]8) John saw the bird with t~e yel low wings(!9) She wanted the gun on her night table(20) This lens gets l ight focusedThese sentences should be contrasted with (I), (4),(5).
and (7) respectively.Whi le the reversal  of choices Dy semantic andpragmatic  factors is regularly acknowledged, thesefactors are rarely assigned any expl ic i t  role inthe theory; (however, see Crain & Steedman 1981).Two views that seem to under l ie  some discuss ions ofthis issue are (a) that syntactic preferences are"defaults" that come into effect only in theabsence Of semant ic /pragmatic  preferences;  or (b)that a l ternat ives are tr ied in order of syntact icpreference, with semantic tests serving to rejectincoherent combinations.
Evidence against bothposi t ions is found in sentences in which syntact icpreferences prevai l  over much more coherentalternat ives:(21) Mary saw the man who had l ived with herwhi le on materni ty  leave.
(22) John met the tall, slim, auburn-ha i red gir lfrom Montreal  that he marr ied at a dance(23) John was named after  his twin sisterWhat we apparent ly need is not hard and fastdecis ion rules, but some way of trading offsyntact ic and non-syntact ic  preferences of var iousstrengths against each other.2.4 Apparent counterexamples.There appear to be st ra ight forwardcounterexamples to the syntact ic  preferencepr incip les which have been proposed, even if wediscount evidence for integrat ion of incompletestructures, accept the syntact ic assumpt ions made,and restr ict  ourselves to cases where none of thea l ternat ives show any semantic anomaly.The fol lowing are apparent counterexamples toRight Associat ion (and Shi f t ing Preference.
etc.
):(24) John stopped speaking f requent ly(25) John discussed the girl  that he met with hismother(26) John was a larmed by the d isappearance of theadministrator  from head off ice(27) The deranged inventor announced that he hadperfected his design of a cl ip car shoe(shoe car clip, cl ip shoe car, shoe cl ipcar, etc.
)(28) Lee and Kim or Sandy departed(29) a. John removed all of the fat and some ofthe bones from the roastb.
John removed all of the fat and sinewypieces of meatThe point Of (24)-(26) should De clear.
(27) and(28) show the lack of r ight-associat ive tendenciesin compound nouns and coordinated phrases.
(29a)i l lustrates the non-occurrence of a garden pathpredicted by Right Associat ion (at least DyShieber 's  version); note the possible ad ject iva lreading of fat and ..., as i l lustrated in (29b).The fol lowing are apparent counterexamples  toMinimal  Attachment (or Maximal Reduction):(30) John abandoned the attempt to please Mary(31) Kim overheard John and Mary's quarre l  withSue(32) John carr ied the umDre!la, the t rans isterradio, the bundle of old magazines, and thegrocer ies for Mary(33) The boy got fat spattered on his armWhi le the account of (30) and (31) can berescued by d ist inguish ing subcategor ized and non-subcategor ized noun postmodif iers,  such a movewould lead to the fai lures a lready ment ioned insection 2.2.
Ford et al (1982) would have no248trouble with (30) or (31), but they, too, pay aprice: they would erroneously predict associat ionof the PP with the object NP in(34) Sue had d i f f icu l t ies  with the teachers(35) Sue wanted the dress for Mary(36) Sue returned the dress for Mary(32) is the sort of example which motivatedFrazier & Fodor's (1979) Local Attachmentprinciple, but their parsing model remains toosketchy for the impl icat ions of the pr inciple to beclear.
Concerning (33), a small -scale experimentindicates that this is not a garden path.
Thisresult appears to inval idate the accounts of (7)based on irreversible closure at fat.
Moreover, thedi f ference between (7) and (33) cannot De explainedin terms of one-word lookahead, since a furtherexperiment has indicated that(37) The boy got fat spattered.is quite as di f f icult  to understand as (7).3.
Towards an account of preference trade-offsMy main object ive has been to point outdef ic iencies in current theories of parsingpreferences, and hence to spur their revision.
\]conclude with my own rather speculative proposals,which represent work in progress.In summary, the proposed model involves (I) aful l -paths parser that schedules tree pruningdecis ions so as to l imit the number of ambiguousconst i tuents to three; and (2) a system ofnumerical  "potentials" as a way of implementingpreference trade-offs.
These potent ials  (or "levelsof activation") are assigned to nodes as a funct ionof their syntact ic /semant ic /pragmat ic  structure,and the preferred structures are those which leadto a global ly high potential.
The total potent ia lof a node consists of (a) a negative rulepotential~ (b) a posit ive semantic potential ,  (c)posit ive expectat ion potent ia ls  contr ibuted by al ldaughters fol lowing the head (where these decaywith distance from the head lexeme), and (d)transmitted potent ia ls  passed on from the daughtersto the mother.I have already argued for a ful l -paths approachin which not only complete phrases but also allincomplete phrases are fully integrated into(overlaid) parse trees dominat ing all of the textseen so far.
Thus features and partial  logicaltranslat ions can be propagated and checked forconsistency as early as possible, and a l ternat iveschosen or d iscarded on the basis of all of theavai lable information.The rule potent ia l  is a negative incrementcontr ibuted by a phrase structure rule to any nodewhich instant iates that rule.
Rule potent ials  leadto a minimal-attachment tendency: they " inhibit"the use of rules, so that a parse tree using fewrules wi l l  general ly  De preferred to one usingmany.
Lexical  preferences can be captured by makingthe rule potent ia l  more negative for the moreunusual rules (e.g., for N --> fat, and forV -~ time).Each "expected" daughter of a node which fol lowsthe node's head lexeme contr ibqtes a non-negat iveexpectat ion potent ia l  to the total potent ia l  of thenode.
The expectat ion potent ia l  contr ibuted by adaughter is maximal if the daughter  immediatelyfol lows the mother's head lexeme, and decreases asthe distance (in words) of the daughter from thehead lexeme increases.
The decay of expectat ionpotent ials  with distance evident ly results in ar ight-associat ive tendency.
The maximal expectat ionpotent ials  of the daughters of a node are fixedparameters of the rule instant iated by the node.They can be thought Of as encoding the "aff inity"of the head daughter for the remainingconstituents, with "strongly expected" const i tuentshaving relat ively large expectat ion potentials.
Forexample, I would assume that verbs have a general lystronger af f in i ty for (certain kinds Of) PPadjuncts than do nouns.
This assumption can explainPP-associat ion with the verb in examples like (4),even if the rules governing verb and nounpostmodif icat ion are taken to be structural lyanalogous.
S imi lar ly  the scheme al lows forcounterexamples to Right Associat ion l ike (24),where the af f in i ty of the first verb (stop) for thefrequency adverbial  may be assumed to Desuff ic ient ly great compared to that of the second(speak) to overpower a weak r ight-associat lveeffect result ing from the decay of expectat ionpotent ials  with distance.I suggest that the effect Of semantics andpragmatics can in pr inciple be captured through asemantic potential  contr ibuted to each nodepotential  by semant ic /pragmatic  process ing of thenode.
The semantic potent ia l  of a terminal node(i.e., a lexical node with a part icular  choice ofword sense for the word it dominates) is high tothe extent that the associated word sense refers toa famil iar  (highly consol idated) and contextual lysal ient concept (entity, predicate, or function).For example, a noun node dominat ing star, with atranslat ion express ing the astronomical  sense Ofthe word, presumably has a higher semanticpotent ia l  than a similar node for the show-bus~nesssense Of the word, when an astronomical  context(but no show-business context) has beenestabl ished; and vice versa.
Possibly a spreadingact ivat ion mechanism could account for the context-dependent part  of the semantic potential  (of.,Qui l l ian 1968, Col l ins & Loftus 1975, Charniak1983).The semantic  potent ia l  of a nonterminal  node ishigh to the extent that its logical t ranslat ion(obtained by suitably combining the logicalt ranslat ions of the daughters) is easi lyt ransformed and elaborated into a descr ipt ion of afami l iar  and contextual ly  relevant kind of objector situation.
(My assumpt ion is that an unambiguousmeaning representat ion of a phrase is computed onthe basis of its init ial  logical form by context-dependent pragmat ic  processes; see Schubert &Pel let ier  1982.)
For example, the sentences Timeflies, The years pass swiftly, The minutes creepby, etc., are instances of the famil iar  pattern ofpredicat ion<predicate of locomotion> (<time term>),and as such are easi ly t ransformable into certaincommonplace (and unambiguous) assert ions aboutone's personal  sense of progress ion through time.Thus they are l ikely to be assigned high semantic249potentials, and so wi l l  not easi ly admit anyalternat ive analysis.
S imi lar ly  the phrases met\[someone\] at a dance (versus married \[someone\] at adance) in sentence (17), and bird with the yel lowwings (versus saw \[something\] with the yel low wings) in (18) are easi ly interpreted as descr ipt ions offamil iar kinds of objects and situations, and assuch contr ibute semantic potent ials  that help toedge Out competing analyses.Crain & Steedman's (1981) very interest ingsuggestion that readings with few newpresupposit ions are preferred has a possible placein the proposed scheme: the mapping from logicalform to unambiguous meaning representat ion mayoften be relat ively simple when few presupposit ionsneed to De added to the context.
However, theirmore general  p lausib i l i ty  pr inciple appears to failfor examples like (21)-(23).Note that the above pattern of temporalpredicat ion may well  be considered to violate aselectional restrict ion, in that predicates oflocomotion cannot l i teral ly  apply to times.
Thusthe nodes with the highest semantic potent ia l  arenot necessar i ly  those conforming most fully withselectional restrictions.
This leads to somedepartures from Wilks' theory of semanticpreferences (e.g., 1976), a l though I suppose thatnormally the most easi ly interpretable nodes, andhence those with the highest semantic potential ,are indeed the ones that conform with select ionalrestrict ions.The di f ference between such pairs of sentencesas (17) and (22) can now be explained in terms ofsemantic/syntact ic  potential  trade-offs.
In bothsentences the semantic potential  of the readingwhich associates the PP with the first verb isrelat ively high.
However, only in (17) is the PPclose enough to the first verb for this effect tooverpower the r ight-associat ive tendency inherentin the decay of expectat ion potentials.The f inal contr ibut ion to the potential  of anode is the transmitted potential, i.e., the sum ofpotentials of the daughters.
Thus the totalpotential  at a node ref lects thesyntact ic /semant ic /pragmatic  propert ies of theentire tree it dominates.A crucial  quest ion that remains concerns thescheduling Of decis ions to discard global ly weakhypotheses.
Examples like (33) have convinced methat Marcus (1980) was essential ly correct inposit ing a three-phrase limit on successiveambiguous constituents.
(In the context of a full-paths parser, ambiguous constituents can be def inedin terms of "upward or-forks" in phrase structuretrees.)
Thus I propose to discard the global lyweakest a l ternat ive at the latest when it is notpossible to proceed rightward without creating afourth ambiguous constituent.
Very weakalternatives (relative to the others) may bediscarded earlier, and this assumption can accountfor early d isambiguat ion in cases like (10) and(11).Although these proposals are not fully workedout (especially with regard to the def init ion ofsemantic potential) ,  prel iminary invest igat ionsuggests that they can do justice to examples l ike(I)-(37).
Schubert & Pel let ier  1982 br ief lydescr ibed a ful l -paths parser which chains upwardfrom the current word to current "expectat ions" by" left-corner stack-ups" Of rules.
However, thisparser searched alternat ives by backtracking onlyand did not handle gaps or coordination.
A newversion designed to handle most aspects ofGeneral ized Phrase Structure Grammar (see Gazdar etal., to appear) is currently being implemented.AcknowledgementsI thank my unpaid informants who pat ient lyanswered strange quest ions about strange sentences.I have also benef i ted from discuss ions with membersOf the Logical  Grammar Study Group at theUniversity of Alberta, especial ly Matthew Dryer,who suggested some relevant references.
Theresearch was supported by the Natural  Sciences andEngineer ing Research Counci l  of Canada underOperat ing Grant A8818.ReferencesCharniak, E. (1983).
Passing markers: a theory ofcontextual  inf luence in language comprehension.Cognit ive Science 7, pp.
171-190.Coll ins, A. M. & Loftus, E. F. (1975).
A spreadingact ivat ion theory of semantic processing.Psychological  Review 82, pp.
407-428.Crain, S. & Steedman, M. (1981).
The use of contextby the Psychological  Parser.
Paper presented atthe Symposium on Model l ing Human ParsingStrategies, Center for Cognit ive Science, Univ.of Texas, Austin.Ford, M., Bresnan, J.
& Kaplan, R. (1981).
Acompetence-based theory of syntact ic closure.
InSresnan, J.
(ed.
), The Mental Representat ion ofGrammatical  Relat ions MIT Press, Cambridge, MA.Frazier, L. & Fodor, J.
(1979).
The SausageMachine: a new two-stage parsing model.Cognit ion 6, pp.
191-325.Gazdar, G., Klein, E., Pullum, G. K. & Sag, I.
A.
(to appear).
General ized Phrase StructureGrammar: A Study in Engl ish Syntax.Kimball, J.
(1973).
Seven pr inciples of surfacestructure parsing in natural language.
Cognit ion2, pp.
15-47.Marcus, M. (1980).
A Theory of Syntact icRecognit ion for Natural Language, MIT Press,Cambridge, MA.Quil l ian, M. R. (1968).
Semantic memory.
In Minsky,M.
(ed.
), Semantic Information Processing, MITPress, Cambridge, MA, pp.
227-270.Schubert, L .K .
& Pelletier, F. J.
(1982).
FromEnglish to logic: context- free computat ion of'conventional' logical translations.
Am.
J. ofComputat ional  Linguist ics 8, pp.
26-44.Shieber, S. M. (1983).
Sentence disambiguat ion by ashift -reduce parsing technique.
Proc.
Sth Int.Conf.
on Art i f ic ial  Intel l igence, Aug. 8-12,Karlsruhe, W. Germany, pp.
699-703.
Also inProc.
of the 21st Ann.
Meet.
of the Assoc.
forComputat ional  Linguistics, June 15-17, MIT,Cambridge, MA., pp.
113-118.Wilks, Y.
(1976).
Parsing Engl ish II.
In Charniak,E.
& Wilks, Y.
(eds.
), Computat ional  Semantics,North-Hol land, Amsterdam, pp.
155-184.250
