ANOTHER LOOK AT NOMINAL COMPOUNDSP ier re  IsabelleD~partement de linguistiqueUniversit~ de MontrealC.P.
6128, Succ.
A, Montreal, Qua., Canada H)C )37ABSTRACTWe present a progress report on our researchon nominal compounds (NC's).
Recent approaches tothis probiem in linguistics and natural ianguageprocessing (NLP) are reviewed and criticized.
Weargue that the notion of "roie nominal", which isat the interface of linguistic and extraiinguis-tic knowledge, is crucial for characterizing NC'eas weII as other Iinguistic phenomena.
We examinea number of constraints on the semantic interpre-tation ruies for NC's.
Proposals are made thatshouid improve the capability of NLP systems todeaI with NC's.I INTRODUCTIONA.
Problem StatementAs a first approximation, we define a"nominal compound (NC) as s string of two or morenouns having the same distribution as a singienoun, as in example (I):(1) aircraft bomb bay door actuating cylindersWe will see below that provisions have to be madein some cases for intervening adjectives.NC's can exhibit various degrees of lexica-lization, but we will focus our attention onproductive rules for forming novel compounds.
Asto their surface syntax, NC's can assume anystructure generated by the rule N --> N N; accor-dingly, their structural ambiguity grows exponen-tially with their length (following the "Catalansequence").
How, then, do we determine that thenormal interpretation for (i) imposes the bracke-ting shown in (2), rather than any of the other41 syntactically possible bracketings?
(2) ((aircraft ((bomb bay) door))(actuating cylinder))B. Goal__ssof th___ee studyWe believe that the analysis of NC's repre-sents an important and largely unsolved problem.From a theoretical point of view this problemraises the question of how to deal with nounsemantics.
And since noun meaning appears to beclosely connected with knowledge of the world,one is led to explore the modes of interactionbetween linguistic and conceptual knowledge.From an NLP perspective, NC's have turnedout to be an important stumbling block for sys-tems that attempt to deaI with real-iife text,especiaIly in technical domains, for purposessuch as machine translation (IsabeIle, toappear), information retrieval, etc.Our ultimate goal is to develop an NLP sys-tem capable of analyzing large classes of NC's inthe sublanguage (Kittredge and Lehrberger, i982)of aircraft maintenance manuals.
We do not aim atsolving all cases, since we believe the problemto be exceedingly difficult.
At the present stageof our inquiry, we concentrate on the design of ssuitable theoretical framework.In section II, we present a brief review ofprevious work in linguistics and NLP.
In sectionsIII and IV, we examine two aspects of the seman-tics of nouns that are crucially relevant to theanalysis of NC's: predicative nouns and rolenominals.
Finally, in section V, we explore pos-sible constraints on the semantic interpretationof NC's.I I  BACKGROUNDA.
Approaches in LinguisticsThe early study of Lees (1963) classifiedNC's on purely grammatical criteria, and itfailed to provide constraints that could explainhow NC's are semantically interpreted.In s number of more recent studies, such asLevi (1978)9 there has been an attempt to viewNC's as governed by tight semantic constraints.Thus, according to Levi, any novel NC realizes apattern where either: a) the head noun is adeverbal naminalizstion and its modifier isinterpreted as an argument of the related verb;or b) the two nouns are related by one of exactlynine deletable predicates ("is the cause of", "isfor", etc.
).This reductionist attempt has been criti-cized, most notably by Downing (1977), on the509grounds that the interpretation of NC's cruciallyinvolves pragmatic knowledge, and that numerouscases of NC's (such as thalidomide parents) willresist any analysis in terms of a closed set ofrelations.
These criticisms have led theoristslike Selkirk (1982) to adopt the position thatonly "verbal compounds" (those constructed on apattern "argument + nominalization") are amenableto linguistic characterization; all other NC'swould have to be explained in separate extralin-guistic theories.C.
Approaches in NLPSeveral systems have been developed in anNLP framework to deal with the problem of inter-preting NC's; two recent exempIes are reported inFinin (1980) and McDonaId (i982).In both systems, the individual nouns of anNC are first mapped onto conceptual representa-tions where concepts are characterized by a setof "roles" or "slots", and are arranged in anabstraction hierarchy.
Interpreting a compoundthen amounts to forming a derived concept on thebasis of the constituent concepts; in most cases,this is done by interpreting one of the conceptsas a slot filler for the other.
For example, theinterpretation of steel adapter would involveinserting the concept associated with steel intoa RAW-MATERIAL slot within the representation ofadapter.
But the authors do not examine in anydetail the question of eventual constraints onthis interpretation process, such as the effectof word order.Another crucial issue which has not beenexplored in sufficient detail, is the nature of,and the justification for the particular set ofslots which is assigned to a given concept.
Fininis somewhat more explicit on this question.
Somenouns have slots which represent standard caseroles.
Role nominals, on the other hand, arenouns which refer to a particular case role ofanother concept; for example, food refers to theobject role of eat, and this fact provides thekey to the interpretation of cat food.
Thisnotion will be examined in detail below.
ButFinin also resorts to other types of slots (e.g.
"raw-material") which are not discussed.III PREDICATIVE NOUNSA.
Root Nouns with ArgumentsThe fact that several classes of non-derivednouns strictly subcategorize phrases which aresemantically interpreted as arguments hasreceived very little attention in the literature.This phenomenon would deserve an extensive study,and we can only give here some relevant examples,together with an indication of the semantic cate-gories between which the relation expressed bythe noun effects a mapping:(3) a. measure nounsmap: objects onto quantitiesexamples: speed (of), temperature (of),volume (of), size (of)b.
"area" nounsmap: objects onto subpartsexamples: top (of), side (of), bottom(of), center (of), core (of)c. collective nounsmap: individuals onto setsexamples: group (of), set (of)d. representational nounsmap: objects onto representations of ob-jectsexamples: picture (of), diagram (of),sense (of)e. other exampleslocation (of), goal (of),brother (of), king (of)Most if not all of these argument-taking nounscan have their argument satisfied by a modifiernoun in an NC:(a) a. oil temperatureb.
box topc.
tank groupd.
circuit diagrame.
component locationA treatment in terms of predicate/argument pat-terns for this type of NC seems far superior toLevi's (1978) use of the semantically empty"deletable predicate" HAVE ("the component HAS alocation").
Although these NC's are excluded fromSelkirk's (1982) class of verbal compounds, theyare amenable to the same type of semantic des-cription.B.
Action and State NominalizationsMost studies on NC's have recognized thefact that deverbal nominalizations exhibit asemantic behavior closely related to that of theverb, and subcategorize elements that can occuras modifier nouns in NC's.
As mentioned above,these are in fact the only cases that Selkirk(1982) deems characterizable at the level oflinguistic competence.8ut there seems to be no reason why deadjec-tival nominalizations should be handled in adifferent way.
In examples (5) and (6), an actionand a state are nominalized, with the argumentoccurring either in a prepositional phrase or asa modifier in an NC:(5) a.
Someone removes the pump.b.
removal of the pumpc.
pump removal(6) a.
Uranium is scarce.b.
scarcity of uraniumc.
uranium scarcity510We are not claiming that there is exactsynonymy between the (b) and (c) examples, butonly that they exhibit the same predicate/argument pattern.
Action nominals can takevarious types of arguments in NC's, and sometimesseveral of them simultaneously:(7) a. pump failure (subject)b. Montreal flight (source, goal)(8) a. poppet chatter tendencyIV ROLE NOMINALSA.
NominalizationsDeverbal nominalizations can refer not onlyto the action expressed by the verb, but also tothe agent (driver), instrument (lubricant), pa-tient (employ-~-~and result (assembly) of thisaction.
Except maybe for results, the term "rolenominal" seems appropriate, since the nominaliza-tion refers to the filler of one of the roles ofthe verb.
Although these nouns are not, strictlyspeaking, predicative, they generally permit toform NC's in which the other is interpreted as anargument of the underlying verb:(9) truck driver= one who drives trucks(I0) engine lubricant= something with which engines arecatedi l l )  18H employee= one who is employed by IBHlubri-(12) pump assembly= the result of assembling a pumpWith agent and instrument nominals (9, i0), thereis a strong tendency to assign an "habitual"aspect to the underlying verb and generic refe-rence to its object; this kind of interpretationis awkward when the argument appears in a PP:(I)) ?a driver of trucksB.
Root NounsThe term "role nominal" is due to Finin(1980) who uses it to cover not only nominaliza-tions of the type described above, but also anynoun which can be semantically interpreted asreferring to a role of a given verb, whether ornot this verb happens to be morphologicallyrelated.
This claims amounts to saying that,semantically, we have relations such as thefollowing:(14) a. pilot:fly :: driver:driveb.
gun:shoot :: lubricant:lubricatec.
food:eat :: employee:employA related claim underlies Zholkhovskij &Hel'cuk's (1971) use of certain "lexical func-tions":(15) a. Sl(bUy) = buyerb.
S3(buy) = se l le rc.
S loc(batt le)  = bat t le f ie ldd.
Sinst(See) = eyeswhere Si,  $1o c and Sinst are defined as functionst~t  y ie ld  the typ ica l  name of,  respect ive ly ,  thei- arrant, the location a-nd the instrument.Fillmore (1971) also makes a comparableproposal, when he suggests that the lexical entryof knife should include (16) as a component:(16) use: I of <V 0 1 A>where V=cutC.
On the Definition of Role NominalsMow exactly should we understand the notionof role nominals?
Finin's statement that theyrefer to an underlying case role of a verb is notaccurate: they refer to role fillers, not to theroles themselves.
Assuming that they denote a setof role fillers, we can ask if this set is:a. the set of all possible fillers for therole; orb.
a set of typical fillers for that role;orc.
any set of possible fillers for the role.Possibility (a) seems to describe correctlynumerous cases of deverbal nouns.
For example, itseems clear that anyone who is employed is anemployee.
However, with agents and instruments,there is a tendency to reserve the role nominalfor habitual fillers: one hesitates to apply theterm writer to a person who only wrote a letter.Horeover, with this definition, knife would notbe a role nominal for cut, since it is perfectlypossible to cut bread with a sword.
The notionwould then loose much of its power, since we needit to explain why bread knife is interpreted as"a knife used as an instrument for cuttingbread".On the other hand, definition (c) seems tooweak: even if a sword can be used to cut bread,bread sword is odd in a normal context (contex-tual factors will be discussed below).
Thus,definition (b) seems the most appropriate.D.
3uatifyin9 Role AssignmentsFor those role nominals where there is nomorphological evidence of relatedness with theunderlying verb, one is forced to rely mostly onintuitions.
However, the risk of arbitrarinesscan be reduced by looking for further evidencefrom other linguistic phenomena.511i.
Evaluative AdjectivesWhen Fillmore (1971) introduced his notionof role nominal, he was attempting to characte-rize the behavior of evaluative adjectives, notthe behavior of NC's.
He noted that a ~ood ~,where X is a role nominal, means:a. if X is an agent: one who performs theassociated activity skilfully(s good driver, a good pianist);b. if X is an instrument: a thing whichpermits the associated activity to beperformed easily(a good knife, a good broom);c?
In other cases, it seems that the resul-tant meaning is less predictible(good food has certain properties concer-ning nutritiousness and taste; a goodhouse is comfortable, built to last,e tc . )
.As far as we can tell, the evaluation domainfor agents and instruments is precisely the acti-vity which is relevant for the understanding ofNC'B.
Thus while good driver evaluates the dri-ving, car driver specifies its object; moreover,in ~ood car driver, car falls within the evalua-tion domain: car drivers and truck drivers areevaluated on different scales.
Evaluative adjec-tives can thus be used as a further source ofevidence in the description of role nominals.2.
Denominal VerbsAnother phenomenon which is relevant to thequestion of role nominals and NC's is the crea-tion of denominal verbs.
Clark & Clark (1979)examine this very productive process, in which averb formed by zero-affixation is understood "insuch a way that the parent noun denotes one rolein the situation, and the remaining surface argu-ments of the denominal verb denote other roles inthe situation" (p. 787).
For example, Max sub-wayed downtown means that Max went downtown ona subway.
Intuitively, it appears obvious thatthe knowledge involved in this interpretationprocess is very closely related to whatever per-mits interpreting the NC downtown subway as "thesubway that goes downtown".An important aspect of C & C's work is toshow that the formation of denominal verbs isheavily dependent on contextuai knowIedge.
Thusif you and me both know that Phii has iong hadthe crazy habit of sticking trombones into thenose of bypassers, I can inform you that PhiI hasjust tromboned a poiice officer.
Notice that inthe same context, 9opd trombone wouId presumablymean a trombone that is easy to stick into some-one's nose.In such cases, the interpretation is basedon particular, situational knowledge.
NC's canalso be based on this type of knowledge.
Forexample, if that same Phil uses different typesof trombones for men and women, we might speak ofhis women trombones, to mean trombones of thetype that Phil sticks into the nose of femalebypaasers.But C & C claim that, more frequently, deno-minal verbs are based on ~eneric knowledge aboutconcrete objects, knowIedge which is accessibIeto aii speakers in a Iinguistic community.
Thisclaim is to be linked with Downing's (i977)remark that aithough NC's are sometimes "deic-tic", they are most often based on generic orpermanent reIationships.Obviously, the relevant knowledge (whetherparticular or generic) is at least as much aboutthe world as about language.
In fact, it is clearthat both types condition each other.
For exam-ple, objects that are used as vehicles will tendto be verbalized on the syntactic pattern ofmovement verbs; and in the absence of other evi-dence, one is likely to infer from its syntaxthat The fairy pumpkined the kids to Narnia allu-des not to an "satin 9 pumpkin" but to a "trans-portation pumpkin".In order to predict the range of meaning oflarge classes of denominal verbs, C & C proposeto encode some generic knowledge in the lexicon,by means of "predominant features" such as:(17) a. x is the agent of Act (to p i lo t  y)b. x is the instrument of Act (to pump y)c. x is the result of Act (to group y)d. x is the location of y (to can y)e. x is the locatum of y (to cover y)f .
x is the time of Act (to weekend in y)It is quite apparent that these features aremeant to capture the same type of facts as rolenominsIs.
It is easy to find NC's which paraIieleach ciass of verb singled out by them:(17') a. aircraft piiotb.
oii pumpc.
tank groupd.
oil cane.
pump coverf.
Montreal weekendWe believe that the semantic mechanisms thatare at work in the interpretation of NC's, deno-minal verbs and evaluative adjectives are basi-cally similar.
By using independent evidence fromthese phenomena, and an adequate generalizationof the notion of role nominal, one can go s longway toward uncovering the relevant semanticmechanisms.The notion of role nominal, as we understandit, is at the interface between linguistic andextralinguistic knowledge.
Nouns may have severaIdifferent roies, depending on the contingenciesof the entities that they denote; in those casescontext usuaiiy makes one roie more saiient.
Infact, context may even impart a noun with anunusuai roie, as we have seen.
However, webeiieve that in ordinary texts, such as technieai512manuals, NC's that are analyzable in terms ofrole nominals are most often based on the usual,generic roles of the nouns.
But this can only beshown through a large scale description of therelevant NC's.E.
A Tentative SchemeSince the knowledge we have to encode istied to world knowledge, there is a risk that itcould become overwhelmingly compiex.
However, wewill minimize this risk, by limiting the scope ofour inquiry to a suitably restricted subianguage.Technical manuals are interesting in this respectbecause they exhibit at the same time a tightIyconstrained universe of interpretation, and anexceptional productivity in compounding.As to the semantic framework, we will notuse case grammar, even if our discussion of rolenominals was couched in the terms of this theoryfor expository purposes.
As is well-known, casegrammars raise a number of difficult problems.For example, the distinction between agentand instruments is problematic.
At the morpholo-gical level, both can give rise to -er nominali-zations; at the syntactic level, both can appearin subject position, and in with NP environments(cf.
co-agents); and at the semantic level, bothnotions are frequently undistinguishable, espe-cially in texts dealing with machines, such astechnical manuals.
Since action verbs can gene-rally occur with an agent, an instrument, orboth, it does not seem necessary to include twoslots for each verb in the dictionary: generalrules should predict the relevant facts.Another problem is that if we want thenotion of role nominal to be general enough, arole nominal should be able to refer to entitieswhich are not case slots, at least in the usualsense of this term.
Result nominals, for instan-ce, do not refer to a case slot as such.There is in fact no evidence that the inter-pretation rules for NC's crucially involve caseroles rather than argument places, and our de-scriptions will be couched in terms of a predi-cate/argument notation.
This notation is perfec-tly compatible with the use of an ontology thatis richer than standard predicate logic.For example, if we agree with 3ackendoff's(198)) claim that "place" and "paths" constitutebasic cognitive categories, we can define "typed"variables with the appropriate range.
In ourdescriptions below, p will denote a path varia-ble, that is, a variable ranging over entitiesdenoted by complex expressions constructed out of,!
,, path functions (into, from, toward, via, etc.),!
,, and places .
Similarly, we will use e as an"event" variable, as in Moore (1981) ~d Hobbs(1984).A role nominal will contain within its lexi-cal entry one or more statements of the form "xsuch that P(x)".
We do not think that diacriticmarkers such as "typical function" are required;rather, notions such as typicality, should be aconsequence of the semantic rules which interpretlexical entries.We give below a few examples of the type oflexical specification for role nominals withwhich we want to experiment.
At this stage of ourwork this should be taken as nothing more than afirst approximation.
The material enclosed inbrackets represents selectional restrictions.
(18) pi lotx such that FLY(x,y,p)<aircraft(y)>(19) adapterx such that ADAPT(x,y,z)(this entry is producedmorphology)by derivational(20) tankx such that CONTAIN(x,y)<fluid(y)>(container, chamber, reservoir, bay, compar-tment, etc.
are similar but selection res-trictions can differ)(21) hingex such that ATTACH(x,y,z)(22) bracex such that SUPPORT(x,y)(23) witnessx such that SEE(x,e)(24) l inex such that CONDUCT(x,y,p)<fluid(y)>IV CONSTRAINING INTERPRETATION RULESThe preceding sections have discussed twoaspects of the lexical semantics of nouns thatare relevant for the analysis of NC's: argument-taking nouns and role nominals.
Assuming that thelexicon contains this type of information, we cannow ask how it is used by semantic interpretationrules.More specifically, the picture that emergesis that lexical entries provide predicate/argu-ment patterns which contain variables; thesevariables have to be bound to the semantic mate-rial associated with some other noun.
We mustthen ask what are the rules that govern thisbinding process.513A.
Relative Order of the two NounsI.
Predicative NounsSelkirk (1982) claims that the modifier nouncan satisfy an argument of the headnoun but notvice-versa.
Finin (1980) claims that argumentsatisfaction (or slot filling) is possible inboth directions.
Finally, McDonald (1982) takesthe intermediate position that satisfaction ofthe head by a modifier is much more frequent.Now, consider the following pairs of exam-ples:(25) a. o i l  temperatureb.
?
?temperature o i l(26) a. uranium scarcityb.
?
?scarcity uranium(27) a. pump removalb.
?
?removal pump(28) a. student invent ionb.
?
?invention studentIt is clear that the (b) examples, if interpreta-ble st all, cannot easiIy realize the patternfound in the (a) examples.
However, there is avery productive process which permits an actionnominal to occur to the left of its argument;this pattern is most productive with inanimateheadnouns:(29) a. repa i r  manb.
?man repa i r(30) a. cool ing deviceb.
device cool ing(3l) a. bleed valveb.
?
?valve bleedc.
valve bleeding(32) a. jack ing po intb.
?
?point jack ingIn the first three (a) examples, the headnoun isinterpreted as a subject argument (agent or ins-trument).
In (28a), point is interpreted as aiocation (where one jacks something).
In all ofthe (a) examples, the action nominai is inter-preted as denoting a permanent roie or functionof the headnoun.When order is reversed, meaning and, even-tually, acceptability are affected.
In the (b)examples, the action nominal is not interpretedas expressing a permanent function of the othernoun.
Thus, if one can manage subject interpreta-tions in (29b) and (31c) -- "a repair done by men(not robots)" and "a valve which bleeds some-thing" --, it will not follow that the men arerepair men or that the valve is a bleed valve.The pattern "argument + predicative noun"has some pecularities of its own; for example,why is (32b) unacceptable no matter the roleassignment that one makes?
Or why is girl swim-min 9 unacceptable?
In the lat ter  case, i t  cannotbe, as suggested by Selkirk (1982) that subjectarguments are prohibited in general: pump fai lureis fine.
I t  may be that subjects are ruled outfor -ing nominals, unless they express a result(cf.
consumer spending).But on the whole, the pattern where thepredicate comes first is much more constrained,since it permits oniy action nominaIs, and pro-duces a semantic resuit very simiiar to =oienominais.
Thus, a cooIing device and cooierdenote very simiIar entities; the same is true ofjacking system and jack.
Notice that in exampiessuch as:()3) air temperature monitoring systemmonitorin 9 system forms a constituent, even ifair temperature is understood as the object ofof the monitoring; this is confirmed by the factthat (34) receives a similar interpretation:(34) monitoring system for air temperatureIt seems that this modification pattern has theeffect of creating a role nominal out of its twoconstituents.2.
Role NominalsHere again, the order of the nouns stronglyconditions the resulting interpretation:(35) a. truck driverb.
?
?driver truck(36) a. o i l  pumpb.
pump o i l(37) a. pump caseb.
?case pump(38) a. equipment bayb.
bay equipmentIn the (a) examples, the modifier noun is inter-preted as the object of the underlying verb(drive, transfer, detect, hold); here too, apermanent connection is established.
A truckdriver is a person whose (social) function is todrive trucks, and that person is still a truckdriver when he/she drives a scooter.
If you usean oil pump to pump your tomato juice, it stillqualifies to be called an oil pump.But when the nouns are inverted, there is achange in meaning and, possibly, in acceptabili-ty.
It is hard to find a sensible interpretationfor driver truck.
The most natural interpretationfor pump oil is "oil used for lubricating pumps":in this case, oil has become the relevant rolenominal.
There is also a possibility for aninterpretation such as "oil in the pump" or "oilcoming from the pump".
We are not sure how thattype of interpretation should be produced.
But itseems clear that oil can only become an actor in514a permanent function of the pump when pump is theheadnoun.It is easy to see that the other examplesexhibit s similar behavior.
We therefore concludethat role nominals tend to establish permanent,functional connections with their modifiers only.When they modify a headnoun, either this nounwill absorb them itself (if it is a predicativeor role nominal) or else a looser connection suchas a locative one will be created.B.
Multiple Modificationi .
Argument OrderingWhen a predicative noun or role nominal inhead position is modified by more than one argu-ment, it seems that ordering (39) will apply, asillustrated in the examples below=()9) time < paths < subject < objectloc(40) s. computer fuel testingb.
?
?fuel computer testing(41) a. Montreal jet f l ightsb.
?
?jet Montreal fl ights(42) a. evening Montreal trainsb.
?
?Montreal evening trains2.
A Broader PerspectiveSo fa r ,  we have concentrated on pred icat ivenouns and ro le  nominals, thereby excludingvarious types of  compounds.
When we look at thebroader p ic ture ,  d i f fe rent  problems are ra ised.F i r s t ,  ( in  technica l  manuals) we f ind exampleswith intervening ad ject ives  as in (43):(43) (Remove) f ront  cockp i t  r ight  she l f  a f t  con-t ro l  panel.While the formation of  NC's such as those wehave examined in previous sect ions i s  usual lyconsidered to be a lex ica l  process, there is  someevidence that ,  in examples l i ke  (43),  syntact icprocesses are at work.
Notice that  each one ofthe three main groups in (43) i s  re ferent ia l="the ( .
.
. )
panel of  the ( .
.
. )
she l f  o f  the ( .
.
.
)cockp i t " ,  much as i f  there was an imp l i c i t  geni -t i ve  marker.
But genuine compounds ( that  i s ,those of  syntact ic  category N) are usual ly  consi -dered to be anaphoric i s lands (Levi ,  1978).
Oneposs ib le  explanat ion i s  that  (43) should in factbe analyzed as contain ing three NP's.A comparison of  the fo l lowing  examples pro-vides some support for that view=(44) a.
Remove front cockpit right shelf.b.
Remove right cockpit shelf.In (44a), cockpit has definite reference and isinterpreted as no more than a location for theshelf.
However, in (44b), when the scope of righ tincludes shelf, cockpit becomes nonreferential;cockpit shelf then denotes a type of shelf.
Thesefacts seem to indicate that this scoping ofright, in virtue of syntactic constraints, forcesone to take cockpit shelf as something of cate-gory N; and when we do so, shelf becomes a rolenominal whose argument receives the type of "per-manent function" interpretation discussed above.Core NC'B, those which establish argumentconnections with a predicative noun or rolenominal, appear to form a tightly bound unit:(45) a.
?
?oil high temperatureb.
?
?truck good driverc.
?
?equipment le f t  baySome adjectives, the "nonpredicating" adjectivesof Levi (1978) can appear within core NC's.
Butthey are in fact nouns in disguise, and theyreceive an argument interpretation; in (46), itis understood that one repairs a structure.
(46) aircraft structural repairsThus, if we are willing to make a distinc-tion between syntactic compounding (similar togenitive phrases) and core NC's, it can beclaimed that true compounds form anaphoricislands and cannot be separated by adjectives.Finally, there are certain types of nominalmodifiers (for which we have as yet no analysisto offer) whose degree of cohesion with theheadnoun is somehow intermediate between nounsinterpreted as arguments and nouns in separate(pseudo-genitive) NP's.
For example, nouns whichstand in a "material of" relation to the headcannot precede adjectives, but must precede argu-ments=(43) a. large steel tankb.
?
?steel large tank(44) a. steel fuel tankb.
?
?fuel steel tankThe constraints that we have seen, and nodoubt others yet to be discovered, are certainlysignificant from a theoretical point of view; butthey also have practical value for NLP systemswhich have to deal with NC's.VI CONCLUSIONSWe have discussed two classes o f  nouns thathave particular importance in NC formation= pre-dicative nouns and role nominals.
We have shownthat the latter class is also relevant to thedescription of evaluative adjectives and denomi-nal verbs.
A tentative framework for the descrip-tion of role nominals has then been proposed.Finally, we have seen that rules which interpret515NC's obey e number of constraints.
A distinctionhas been made between "pseudo-genitive" construc-tions and core NC's, the latter forming a tightlybound unit with internal ordering constraints.Much work remains to be done on the issuesthat we have discussed here; it is likely thatexperimentation with actual descriptions on alarger scale will lead to several refinements andrevisions.
Moreover, as has been pointed out inthe last section, our description still ignores anumber of types of compounding, and further dif-ficulties are to be expected.
Nonetheless, we areconfident that our work will, in the near future,result in a small NLP system capable of analyzinga broad range of NC's.Selkirk E., The Syntax of  Words, MIT Press, 1982.Zholkovskij A., Mel'cuk I .
,  SUr la synthbse sd-mantique, in T.A.
Informations, 11:2, 1971.VII REFERENCESAronoff M., Contextuals, in Language, 56:4, 744-758, 1980.Clark E., Clark H. When Nouns Surface as Verbs,in Language, 55:4,, 767-811, 1979.Downing P., On the Creation and Use of EnglishCompound Nouns, in Lanquaqe, 5):4, 810-842,1977.Fillmore C., Types of Lexicsl Information, in D.Steinberg and L. 3akobovits (eds.
), Semantics,Cambridge Univ.
Press, 197I.Finin T., The Semantic Interpretation of  CompoundNominals, Coordinated Science Lab., Univ.
ofIIIinois, 1980.Hobbs 3., Sublanguage and Knowledge , paper pre-sented at the NYU Conference on Subianguages,3anuary 1984.Isabelle P., Machine Translation at the TAUMGroup, paper presented at the Lugano Tutorialon Machine TraneIation, April i984, to appear.3ackendoff R., Semantics and Cognition , MITPress, 198).Kittredge R., Lehrberger 3., Sublanguage: Studiesof Language in Restricted Semantic Domains, DeGruyter, 1982.Lees R., The Grammar of English Nominalizations,Mouton, i96).Levi 3., Th__ee Syntax and Semantics of CompIexNominals, Academic, 1978.McDonald D.B., Understandin 9 Noun Compounds,Carnegie-Meiion University, i982.Moore R., Problems in Logical Form, Tech.
note241, SRI, 1981.516
