A Computat iona l  Analysis of  Complex Noun Phrmms in N,,vy MessagesElaine MarshNavy Center for Applied Research in Artificial IntelligenceNaval Research Laboratory - Code 7510Washington, D.C. 20375ABS TRACTMethods of text compression in Navy messages arenot limited to sentence fragments and the omissions offunction words such as the copula be.
Text compressionis also exhibited within ~grammatieal" sentences and isidentified within noun phrases in Navy messages.Mechanisms of text compression include increased fre-quency of complex noun sequences and also increasedusage of nominalizations.
Semantic relationships amongelements of a complex noun sequence can be used toderive a correct bracketing of syntactic onstructions.I INTRODUCTIONAt the Navy Center for Applied Research inArtificial Intelligence, we have begun computer-analyzingand processing the compact text in Navy equipmentfailure messages, specifically equipment failure messagesabout electronics and data communications systems.These messages are required to be sent within 24 hours ofthe equipment casualty.
Narrative remarks are restrictedto a length of no more than 99 lines, and each line is res-tricted to a length of no more than 69 characters.Because hundreds of these messages are sent daily toupdate ship readiness data bases, automatic proceduresare being implemented to handle them efficiently.
Ourtask has been to process them for purposes of dissemina-tion and summarization, and we have developed a proto-type system for this purpose.
To capture the informationin the narrative, we have chosen to use natural languageunderstanding techniques developed at the LinguisticString Project \[Sager 1981\].These messages, like medical reports \[Marsh 1982\]and technical manuals \[Lehrberger 1982\], exhibit proper-ties of text compression, in part due to imposed time andlength constraints.
Some methods of compression resultin sentences that are usually called ill-formed in normalEnglish texts \[Eastman 1981\].
Although unusual in nor-mal, full English texts, these are characteristic of mes-sages.
Recent work on these properties' include discus-sions of omissions of function words such as the copulabe, which results in sentence fragments and omissions ofarticles in compact text \[Marsh 1982, 1983; Bachenko1983\].
However, compact ext also utilizes mechanisms ofcompression that are present in normal English but areused with greater frequency in messages and technicalreports.
Although the messages contain sentence frag-ments, they also contain many complete sentences.These sentences are long and complicated in spite of thetelegraphic style often used.
The internal structure ofnoun phrases in these constructions i often quite com-plex, and it is in these noun phrases that we find syntac-tic constructions characteristic of text compression.
Simi-lar properties have been noted in other report sub-languages \[Lehrberger, 1982; Levi, 1978\].When processing these messages it becomes impor-tant to recognize signs of text compression since the func-tion words that so often direct a parsing procedure andreduce the choice of possible constructions are frequentlyabsent.
Without these overt markers of phrase boun-daries, straightforward parsing becomes difficult andstructural ambiguity becomes a serious problem.
Forexample, sentences (1)-(2) are superficially identical, how-ever in Navy messages, the first is a request for a part (anantenna) and the second a sentence fragment specifyingan antenna performing a specific function.
(a transmitantenna).
(1) Request antenna shipped by fastest available means.
(2) Transmit antenna shipped by fastest availablemeans.The question arises of how to recognize and capture thesedistinctions.
We have chosen to take a sublangnage, ordomain specific, approach to achieving correct parses byspecifying the types of possible combinations among ele-ments of a construction in both structural and semanticterms.This paper discusses a method for recognizinginstances of textual compression and identifies two typesof textual compression that arise in standard and sub-language texts: complex noun sequences and nominaliza-tions.
These are both typically found in noun phraseconstructions.
We propose a set of semantic relations forcomplex noun sequences, within a sublanguage analysis,that permits the proper bracketing of modifier and hostfor correct interpretation of noun phrases.II TEXT COMPRESSION IN NOUN PHRASESWe can recognize the sources of text compression bytwo means: (1) comparing a full grammar of the standardlanguage to that of the domain in which we are working,505and {2) comparing the distribution of constructions intwo different sublanguages.
The first comparison distin-guishes those constructions that are peculiar to a sub-language /el.
Marsh 1982\].
A comparison of a full gram-mar with two sublanguage grammars, the equipmentfailure messages discussed here and a set of patient medi-cal histories, disclosed that the sublanguage grammarswere substantially smaller than full English grammars,having fewer productions and reflecting a more limitedrange of modifiers and complements \[Grishman 1984\].The second comparison identifies the types of construc-tions that exhibit text compression.
These are commoneven in full sentences.
For example, we found that simi-lar sets of modifiers were used in the two different sub-languages \[Grishman 1984\].
However, the equipmentfailure messages had significantly more left and rightmodifier constructions than the medical, even though theequipment failure messages had about one-half thenumber of sentences of the patient histories.
236 sen-tences in the medical domain were analyzed and 123 inthe Navy domain.
The statistics are presented in Tables1 and 2.In particular, there were significantly more nounmodifiers of nouns constructions (Noun + Noun construc-tions) in the equipment failure messages than there werein the medical records, and more prepositional phrasemodifiers of noun phrases.
Further analysis suggestedthese constructions are symptomatic of two majormechanisms text compression i Navy messages: of com-plex noun sequences and nominalizations.Complex noun sequences.
A major feature of nounphrases in this set of messages i the presence of manylong sequences of left modifiers of nouns, (3).
{3) (a) forward kingpost sliding padeye unit(b) coupler controller standby light(c) base plate insulator welds{d) recorder-reproducer tape transport(e) nbsv or ship-shore tty sat communications(f) fuze setter extend/retract ycleComplex noun sequences like these can cause major prob-lems in processing, since the proper bracketing requiresan understanding of the semantic/syntactic relationsbetween the components.
\[Lehrberger 1982\] identifiessimilar sequences (empilage) in technical manuals.
As henotes, this results from having to give highly descriptivenames to parts in terms of their function and relation toother parts.Modifiers of nouns include nouns and adjectives.
InTypeTotal noun phrasesArticlesLeft Modifiers of NounsNavy33927724\[ Medical53238Adjectival Modifiers:AdjAdj + AdjPossessive N138344 0Noun Modifiers:Noun 99 76N+N 25 4Verb 7 0Table I: Left Modifier StatisticsRight Modifiers of NounsType \[ Navy \[ MedicalPrepositional Phrases 95 107Relative Clauses 1 5Adverb 4 0Reduced Relative Clauses 7 9Table 2: Right Modifier Statistics506the sublanguage of Navy messages, unmarked verbmodifiers of nouns also occur.
This construction is notcommon in standard English or in the medical recordsublanguage mentioned above.
It is illustrated above in(2) and below in (4).
(4) (a) receive sensitivity(b) operate mode(c) transmit antennaBecause the verbs are unmarked for tense or aspect, theycan be mistaken by the parsing procedure for imperativeor present ense verbs.
Furthermore, in this domain theproblem is compounded by the frequent use of sentencefragments consisting of a verb and its object, with nosubject present (1) repeated as (5) below.
(5) Request antenna...Complex noun sequences also commonly arise fromthe omission of prepositions from prepositional phrases.The resulting long sequences of nouns are not easilybracketed correctly.
In this data set, the omission ofprepositions is restricted to place and time sequences (6-7).
(6) Request NAVSTA Guantanamo Bay Cuba coordi-nate ...Request RSG Mayport arrange ....(7) Original antenna replaced by outside contractorthrough RSG Mayport 7 JUN 82.In (6), prepositions marking time phrases have been omit-ted, and in (7) both time and place prepositions havebeen omitted.Nominalizations.
The increased frequency of preposi-tional modifiers in the equipment failure messages wastraced to the frequent use of nominalizations in Navymessages.
Out of a preliminary set of 89 prepositionalmodifiers of nouns, 42 were identified as arguments tonominalized verbs (47%), the other 52% were attributive.Examples of argument prepositional phrases are given in(8), attributive in (9).
(8) (a) assistance from MOTU 12(b) failure of amplifier(c) cause of casualty(d) completion of assistance(9) (a) short circuit between amplifier and power supply(b) short in cable(c) receipt NLT 4 OCT 82(d) burned spots on connectorIn these texts, in which nominalization serves as animportant mechanism of text compression, it thereforebecomes important to distinguish prepositional phrasesthat serve as arguments of nominalizations fromattributive ones.The syntax of complex modifier sequences in nounphrases and the identification of nominalizations, bothcharacteristic of text compression, eed to be consistentlydefined f~,~ ~ r)roper understanding of the text being pro-cessed.
By utilizing the semantic patterns that arederived from a sublanguage analysis, it becomes possibleto properly bracket complex noun phrases.
This is thesubject of the next section.HI SEMANTIC PATTERNS INCOMPLEX NOUN SEQUENCESNoun phrases in the equipment failure messages typ-ically include numerous adjectival and noun modifiers onthe head, and additional modifier types that are not socommon in general English.
The relationships expressedby this stacking are correspondingly complex.
Thesequences are highly descriptive, naming parts in terms oftheir function and relation to other parts, and alsodescribing the status of parts and other objects in thesublanguage.
Domain specific information can be used toderive the proper bracketing, but it is first necessary toidentify the modifier-host semantic patterns through adistributional analysis of the texts.
The basis for sub-language work is that the semantic patterns are a res-tricted, limited set.
They talk about a limited number ofclasses and objects and express a limited number of rela-tionships among these objects.
These objects and rela-tionships are derived through distributional analysis, andcan ultimately be used to direct the parsing procedure.Complex noun sequences.
Semantic patterns in complexnoun phrases fall into two types: part names and othernoun phrases.
Names for pieces of equipment often con-tain complex noun sequences, i.e.
stacked nouns.
Therelationships among the modifiers in the part names mayindicate one of several semantic relations.
They mayindicate the levels of components.
For example,assembly/component relationships are expressed.
In cir-cuit diode, diode is a component of a circuit.
In antennacoupler, coupler is a component part of an antenna.
Partnames may also describe the function of the piece ofequipment.
For example, in the phrase high frequencytransmit antenna, trqlnsmit is the function of the antenna.The semantic relations among the modifiers of a part arestrictly ordered are shown in (10a); examples are providedin (10b).
(10) (a) ID REPAIR SIGNAL FUNCTION PART.
(b) CU-t~O07 antenna coupler; HF XMIT antenna;deflection amplifier; UYA.
4 display system; primaryHF receive antennaThe component relations in part names are especiallyclosely bound and are best regarded as a unit for process-ing.
Thus antenna coupler in CU-~O07 antenna couplercan be considered a unit.
We would not expect to findantenna CU-~O07 coupler or coupler CU-~007 antenna.In other noun phrases, i.e.
those that are not partnames, the head nouns can have other semanticcategories.
For example, looking back at the sentences in(3), the head noun of a noun sequence can be an equip-ment part ( unit, light ), a process that is performed onelectrical signals ( cycle ), a part function (communica-507tions ).
In addition, it can be a repair action (alignment,repair), an assistance actions ( assistance ), and so on.Only modifiers with appropriate semantic and syntacticcategory can be adjoined.
For example, in the phrase fuzesetter eztend/retract ycle, semantic information is neces-sary to attain the correct bracketing.
Since only functionverbs can serve as noun modifiers, eztend/retraet can beanalyzed as a modifier of cycle, a process word.
Fuzesetter, a part name, can be treated as a unit becausenoun sequences consisting of part names are generallylocal in nature.
Fuze setter is prohibited from modifyingeztend/retract, since verb modifiers do not themselvestake noun modifiers.Other problems, such as the omissions of preposi-tions resulting in long noun sequences (ef.
(8) and (0)above), can also be treated in this manner.
By identify-ing the semantic lasses of the noun in the object of theprepositionless prepositional phrase and its host's class,the occurrence of these prepositionless phrases can he res-tricted.
The date and place strings can then be properlytreated as a modifier constructions instead as head nouns.IV CONCLUSIONMethods of text compression are not limited to omis-sions of lexical items.
They also include mechanisms formaximizing the amount of information that can heexpressed within a limited time and space.
Thesemechanisms include increased frequency of complex nounsequences and also increased usage of nominalizations.We would expect o find similar methods of text compres-sion in other types of scientific material and messagetraffic.
The semantic relationships among the elements ofa noun phrase permit the proper bracketing of complexnoun sequences.
These relationships are largely domainspecific, although some patterns may be generalizableacross domains \[Marsh 1084 I.The approach taken here for Navy messages, whichuses suhlanguage s leetional patterns for disambiguation,was developed, esigned, and implemented initially at theNew York University Linguistic String Project for medi-cal record processing \[Friedman 1984; Grishman 1983;Hirschman 1982 I.
It was implemented with the capabilityfor transfer to other domains.
We anticipate using asimilar mechanism, based partially on the analysispresented here, on Navy messages in the near future.References\[Baehenko 1983\] Bachenko, J. and C.L.
Heitmeyer.
NounPhrase Compression in Navy Messages.
NRL Report8748.\[Eastman 1981\].
Eastman, C.M.
and D.S.
McLean.
On theNeed for Parsing Ill-Formed Input.
AJCL 7 (1981),4.\[Friedman 1984\] Friedman, C. Suhlanguage Text Process-ing - Application to Medical Narrative.
In \[Kittredge1084\].\[Grishman 10831 Grishman, R., Hirsehman, L. and C.Friedman.
Isolating Domain Dependencies in NaturalLanguage Interfaces.
Proc.
o/ the Con/.
on Applied Nat.Lang.
Processing (ACL).\[Grishman 1984\] Grishman, R., Nhan, N, Marsh, E. andL.
Hirschman.
Automated Determination of SuhlanguageSyntactic Usage.
Proc.
COLING 84) (current volume).\[Hirschman 1082\] Hirsehman, L. Constraints on NounPhrase Conjunction: A Domain-independentMechanism.Proc.
COLING 8~ - Abstracts.~ittredge 1984\] Kittredge, R. and R. Grishman.Proc.
ofthe Workshop on Sublanguage Description add Processing{held January 19-20, 1084, New York University, NewYork, New York), to appear.\[Lehrberger 1982\].
Lehrberger, J.
Automatic Translationand the Concept of Sublanguage.
In Kittredge andLehrberger (eds), Sublanguage: Studies of Language inRestricted Semantic Domains.
de Grnyter New York,1082.\[Levi 1078\] Levi, J.N.
The Syntaz and Semantics of Com-plez Nominals, Academic Press, New York.\[Marsh 1982\].
Marsh, E. and N. Sager.
Analysis and Pro-cussing of Compact Text.
Proc.
COLING 82, 201-206,North Holland.\[Marsh 1083\] Marsh, E. Utilizing Domain-Specific Infor-mation for Processing Compact Text.
Proc.
Conf.
AppliedNatural Language Processing, 09-103 (ACL).\[Marsh 1084\] Marsh E. General Semantic Patterns inDifferent Sublanguages.
In \[Kittredge 1084\].\[Sager 1081\] Sager, N. Natural Language Information Pro-cessing.
Addison-Wesley, Reading, MA.AcknowledgmentsThis research was supported by the Oflace of NavalResearch and the Ofllce of Naval Technology PE-62721N.The author gratefully acknowledges the efforts of JoanBachenko, Judy Froseher, and Ralph Grishman in pro-ceasing the initial corpus of Navy messages, and theefforts of the researchers at New York University in pro-cussing the medical record corpus.508
