VOICE SIMULATION: FACTORS AFFECTING QUALITY AND NATURALNESSB.
YegnanarayanaDepartment of Computer Science and EngineeringIndian Institute of Technology, Madras-60O 036, IndiaJ.M.
Naik and D.G.
ChildersDepartment of Electrical EngineeringUniversity of Florida, Galnesville, FL 32611, U.S.A.ABSTRACTIn this paper we describe a f lexibleanalysls-synthesls ystem which can be used for anumber of studies In speech research.
The malnobjective Is to have a synthesis system whosecharacteristics can be controlled through a setof parameters to realize any desired voicecharacteristics.
The basic synthesis schemeconsists of two steps: Generation of an excita-tion signal from pitch and galn contours andexcitation of the linear system model describedby linear prediction coefficients, We show thata number of basic studies such as time expansion/compression, pitch modifications and spectralexpansion/compression can be made to study theeffect  of these parameters on the qual i ty ofsynthetic speech.
A systematic study is made todetermine factors responsible for unnaturalnesstn synthetic speech.
I t  i s  found that the shapeof the g lot ta l  pulse determines the qual i ty to alarge extent.
We have also made some studies todetermine factors responsible for loss of I n te l -l i g ib i l i ty  tn some segments of speech.
A signaldependent analysts-synthesis scheme ts proposedto improve the in te l l ig ib i l i ty  of dynamic soundssuch as stops.
A simple implementation of thesignal dependent analysis is proposed.I .
INTRODUCTIONThe maln objective of this paper is todevelop an analysis-synthesls system whoseparameters can be varied at wi l l  to realize anydesired voice characteristics.
Thls wl l l  enableus to determine factors responsible for theunnatural quality of synthetic speech.
I t  isalso possible to determine parameters of speechthat contribute to in te l l ig ib i l i ty .
The keyideas In our basic system are similar to theusual linear predictive (LP) coding vocoder \ [ I \ ] ,\[2\].
Our main contributions to the design of thebasic system are: (1) the f lex ib i l i ty  incorpor-ated in the system for changing the parameters ofexcitation and system independently and (2) ameans for combining the excitation and systemthrough convolution without further interpolationof the system parameters during synthesis.Atal and Hanauer \[1\] demonstrated the feasl-b i l l ty  of modifying voice characteristics throughan LPC vocoder.
There have been some attempts tomodify some characteristics (llke pitch, speakingrate) of speech without expl ic i t ly extracting thesource parameters.
One such attempt is with thephase vocoder \[3\].
A recent attempt toindependently modify the excitation and vocaltract system characteristics is due to Senef\[4\].
Unlike the LPC method, Senef's methodperforms the desired transformations in thefrequency domain without expl ic i t ly extractingpitch.
However, i t  Is d i f f i cu l t  to adjust theintonation patterns while modifying the voicecharacteristics.In order to transform voice from one type(e.g., masculine) to another (e.g., feminine), i tis necessary to change not only the pitch andvocal tract system but also the pitch contour aswell as the glottal waveshape independently.
I tis known that glottal pulse shapes differ fromperson to person and also for the same person forutterances in different contexts \[5\].
Since oneof our objectives is to determine factors respon-sible for producing natural sounding syntheticspeech, we have decided to implement a schemewhich controls independently the vocal tractsystem characteristics and the excitation charac-teristics such as pitch, pitch contour andglottal waveshape.
For thls reason we havedecided to use the standard LPC-type vocoder.In Sec.
I I  we describe the basic analysis-synthesis system developed for our studies.
Wediscuss two important innovations in our systemwhich provide smooth control of the parametersfor generating speech.
In Sec.
I I I  we presentresults of our studies on voice modifications andtransformations using the basic system.
Inpart icu lar ,  we demonstrate the ease wtth whichone can vary independently the speaking rate,pitch, g lot ta l  pulse shape and the vocal tractresponse.
We report in Sec.
IV results from ourstudies to determine the factors responsible forunnatural quality of synthetic speech from oursystem, After accounting for the major source ofunnaturalness in synthetic speech, we investigatethe factors responsible for low in te l l ig ib i l i tyof some segments of speech.
We propose a signaldependent analysls-synthesls cheme in Sec.
V toimprove In te l l ig lb i l i ty  of dynamic sounds such asstops.530I I .
DESCRIPTION OF THE ANALYSIS-SYNTHESIS SYSTEMA.
Basic SystemAs mentioned earlier, our system is basical-ly same as that LPC vocoders described in theliterature F2\].
The production model assumesthat speech is the output of a tlme varying vocaltract system excited by a time varying excita-tion.
The excitation is a quaslperlodlc glottalvolume velocity signal or a random noise signalor a combination of both.
Speech analysis Isbased on the assumption of quasistationarltyduring short intervals (10-20 msec).
At thesynthesizer the excitation parameters and gainfor each analysis frame are used to generate theexcitation signal.
Then the system representedby the vocal tract parameters is excited by thissignal to generate synthetic speech.B.
Analysis ParametersFor the basic system a fixed frame size of20 msec (200 samples at 10kHz sampling rate) anda frame rate of 100 frames per second are used.For each frame a set fo 14 LPCs are extractedusing the autocorrelatlon method \[2\].
Pitchperiod and volce/unvoiced decisions are deter-mined using the SIFT algorithm \[2\].
The glottalpulse information is not extracted in the basicsystem.
The gain for each analysis frame Iscomputed from the linear prediction residual,The residual energy for an Interval correspondingto only one pitch period is computed and theenergy is divided by the period in number ofsamples.
This method of computation of squared~aln per sample avoids the incorrect computationof the gain due to arbitrary location of analyslsframe relative to glottal closure.C.
SynthesisSynthesis consists of two steps: Generationof the excitation signal and synthesis of speech.Separation of the synthesis procedure into thesetwo steps helps when modifying the voice charac-teristics as wil l  be evident in the followlngsections.
The excitation parameters are used togenerate the excitation signal as follows: Thepitch period and galn contours as a function ofanalysls frame number (1) are f i rst  nonllnearlysmoothed using a 3-polnt median smoothing.
Twoarrays (called Q and H for convenience) are cre-ated as il lustrated in Figure I.
The smoothedpitch contour P(1) is used to generate a Q-arrayusing the value of the pitch period at any pointto determine the next point on the pitch contour.Since the pitch period Is given in number ofsamples and the Interframe interval is known, sayN samples, the value of the pitch period at theend of the current pitch period is determinedusing suitable interpolation of P(1) for pointsin between two frame Indicles.
The values of thepitch period as read from the pitch contour arestored in the Q-array.
The entry In the Q-arrayis the value of the pitch period for thatframe.
For nonvolced frames the number ofsamples to be skipped along the horizontal axisis N, although on the pitch contour the value iszero.
The entry in the O-array for unvoicedframes is zero.
For each entry in the Q-arraythe corresponding squared gain per sample can becomputed from the gain contour using suitableinterpolation between two frame indices.
Thesquared gain per sample corresponding to eachelement in the Q-array Is stored in the H-array.From the Q and H arrays an excitation slgnalis generated as follows.
For each nonvoIcedsegment, identified by an entry zero in the Q-array, N s samples of random noise are generated.The average energy per sample of the noise isadjusted to be equal to the entry in the H-arraycorresponding to that segment.
For a voicedsegment identified by a nonzero value in the Q-array, the required number of excitation samplesare generated using any desired excitation model.In the in i t ia l  experiments only one of the fiveexctlation models shown in Figure 2 wereconsidered.
The model parameters were fixedaprlorl and they were not derived from thespeech signal.
Note that the total number ofexcitation samples generated In this way areequal to the number of desired synthetic speechsamples.Once the excitation signal Is obtained, thesynthetic speech Is generated by exciting thevocal tract system with the excitation samples.The system parameters are updated every Nsamples.
We are not using pitch synchronousupdating of the parameters, as is normally donein LPC synthesis.
Therefore, interpolation ofparameters is not necessary.
Thus, theinstabi l i ty problems arising out of theinterpolated system parameters are avolced.
Wes t i l l  obtain a very smooth synthetic speech.I I I .
STUDIES USING THE BASIS SYSTEMTwo sentences spoken by a male speaker wereused In our studies with the system:Sl: WE WERE AWAY A YEAR AGO$2: SHOULD WE CHASE THOSE COWBOYSSpeech data sampled at lOkHz was analyzed underthe fol lowing conditions:Frame size: 200 samplesFrame rate: 100 frames/secEach frame was preemphastzed and windowedNumber of LPC's: 14Pitch contour: (SIFT algorithm)Gain contour: (from LP residual)3-potnt median smoothing of pitch and gatncontourThe exci tat ion signal was generated using thesmoothed pitch and gain contours with the non-overlapping samples per frame being N=200, Theexcitat ion model-3 (Fig.
2) was used throughoutthe tn t t ta l  studies.
This model was a stmpleimpulse excitat ion normally used in most LPC syn-thesizers, Synthesis was performed by using theexci tat ion signal with the a l l -po le  system,The system parameters were updated every 100samples.Ne conducted the fol lowing studies usingthis system.531A.
Tlme expanslon/compresslon wlth spectrumand excitation characteristics preserved.B.
Pitch period expanslon/compression withspectrum and other excitationcharacteristics preserved,C.
Spectral expanslon/compresslon wlth al lthe excitation characteristics preserved.D.
Modification of voice characteristics(both pitch and spectrum).The l l s t  of recordings made from these studies Isgiven in Appendix.The synthetic speech is highly Inte l l lg lb leand devoid of c11cks, noise, etc.
The speechquallty Is dist inct ly synthetic.
The issues ofquallty or naturalness w111 be addressed InSection IV.IV.
FACTORS FOR UNNATURAL QUALITYOF SYNTHETIC SPEECHI t  appears that the quality of the overallspeech depends on the quality of reproduction ofvoiced segments.
To determine the factorsresponsible for synthetic quality of speech, asystematic investigation was performed.
Thef i r s t  part of the investigation consisted ofdetermining which of the three factors namely,the vocal tract response, pitch period contour,and g lot ta l  pulse shape contributed s ign i f icant lyto the unnatural qual i ty .
Each of these factorswas varied over a wide range of alternatives todetermine whether a significant improvement inquality can be achieved.
We have found thatglottal pulse approximation contributes to thevoice quality more than the vocal tract systemmodel and pitch period errors.Different excitation models were Investl-gated to determine the one which contributes mostsignif icantly to naturalness.
I f  we replace theglottal pulse characteristics wlth the LPresidual i t se l f ,  we get the original speech.
I fwe can model the excitation sultably anddetermine the parameters of the model fromspeech, then we can generate hlgh qualitysynthetic speech.
But i t  is not clear how tomodel the excitation.
Several a r t i f i c ia l  pulseshapes wlth their parameters arbi t rar i ly  fixed,are used In our studies (Fig.
2).Excitation Model-l: Impulse excitationExcitation Model-2: Two impulse excitationExcitation Model-3: Three impulse excita-tionExcitation Model-4: Hf lbert transform of animpulseExcitation Model-5: First derivative ofFant's model \[6\]Out of all these, Model-5 seems to producethe best quality speech.
However, the mostimportant problem to be addressed is how todetermine the model parameters from speech.The studies on excitation models indicatethat the shape of the excitation pulse Iscr l t lcal  and I t  should be close to the originalpulse I f  naturalness Is to be obtained in thesynthetic speech.
Another way of viewing thls isthat the phase function of the excitation plays aprominent role In determining the quality.
Noneof the simplified models approximate the phaseproperly.
So i t  Is necessary to model the phaseof the original signal and incorporate i t  in thesynthesis.
Flanagan's phase vocoder studies \[7\]also suggest the need for incorporating phase ofthe signal In synthesis.V.
SIGNAL-DEPENDENT ANALYSIS-SYNTHESIS SCHEMEThe quality of synthetic speech dependsmostly on the reproduction of voiced speech,whereas, we conjecture that in te l l ig ib i l i ty  ofspeech depends on how different segments arereproduced.
I t  Is known \[8\] that analysis framesize, frame rate, number of LPCs, pre-emphasisfactor, glottal pulse shape, should be differentfor different classes of segments In anutterance.
In many cases unnecessary preemphaslsof data, or hlgh order LPCs can produceundesirable effects.
Human listeners perform theanalysis dynamically depending on the nature ofthe input segment.
So i t  is necessary toIncorproate a signal dependent analysls-synthesisfeature Into the system.There are several ways of implementing theslgnal dependent analysls ideas.
One way is tohave a fixed slze window whose shape changesdepending on the desired effective size of theframe.
We use the signal knowledge embodied inthe pitch contour to guide the analysls.
Forexample, the shape of the window could be aGaussian function, whose width can be controlledby the pitch contour.
The frame rate is kept ashigh as possible during the analysis stage.Unnecessary frames can be discarded, thusreducing the storage requirement and synthesiseffort.The slgnal dependent analysls can be takento any level of sophistication, wlth consequentadvantages of improvement in inte111glbil ity,bandwidth compression and probably quality also.VI.
DISCUSSIONWe have presented in this paper a discussionof an analysts-synthesis system which isconvenient to study various aspects of the speechsignal such as the importance of d i f ferentparameters of features and their  ef fect  onnaturalness and in te l l ig ib i l i ty .
Once thecharacteristics of the speech signal are wellunderstood, i t  fs possible to transform the voicecharacteristics of an utterance tn any desiredmanner.
I t  is to be noted that modelling boththe excitat ion signal and the vocal tract systemare crucial for any studies on speech.Significant success has been achieved inmodelling the vocal tract system accurately forpurposes of synthesis.
But on the other hand wehave not yet found a convenient way of modellingthe excitation source.
I t  is to be noted thatthe solution to the source modelling problem doesnot l le  in preserving the entire LP residual orIts Fourier transform or parts of the residualinformation In either domain.
Because any such532approach limits the manipulative capability insynthesis especially for changing voicecharacterl stl cs.APPENDIX A: LIST OF RECORDINGS1.
Basic systemUtterance of Speaker I: (a) original (b)synthetic (c) originalUtterance of Speaker 2: (a) original (b)synthetic (c) originalUtterance of Speaker 3: (a) original (b)synthetic (c) original2.
Time expansl on/compression(a) original (b) 11/2 times normal speakingrate (c) normal speaking rate (d)I/2 thenormal speaking rate (e) original3.
Pitch period expansion/compression(a) original (b) twice the normal pitchfrequency (c) normal pitch frequency (d)half the normal pitch frequency (e)ori gi nal4.
Spectral expanslon/compression(a) original (b) spectran expansion factor1.1 (c) normal spectrum (d) spectral com-pression factor 0.9 (e) original5.
Conversion of one voice to another(a) male to female voice:original male voice - a r t i f i c ia lfemale voice - original female voice(b) male to child voice:original male voice ar t i f i c ia lchild voice - original child voice(c) child to male voice:original child voice - a r t i f i c ia lmale voice - original male voiceQ(1) - oQ(Z) ?
0" pitch contour  ?
: .
Q(3) - PlI iiil I0 , I ,  , '  I , , .
Ii ?,Time in # samplesFt~ le.
I l l us t ra t ion  of generating Q-Array from smoothedpitch contourgain contourN(1) .
G 1H(2) ?
G 2H(3) - G 3H(4) - G 4HiS) - G sTime in # samplesFig lb.
I11ustratlon of qenerstlnq H-Array from smoothedpitch and getn contours6.
Effect of excitation models(a) orlginal (b) single Impulse excitation(c) two Impulses excitation (d) threeimpulses excitation (e) Hllbert transformof an impulse i f )  f i r s t  derivative ofFant's model of glottal pulseREFERENCES\[1\] B.S.
Atal and S.L.
Hanauer, J. Acoust.
Soc.Amer., vol.
50, pp.
637-655, 1971.\[2\] J.D.
Markel and A.H. Gray, Linear Predic-tion of Speech, Sprtnger-Verlag, 19/6.\[3\] J.L.
Flanagan, Speech Analysts, Synthesisand Perception, Sprlnger-Verlag, 1972.\[4\] s. Seneff, IEEE Trans.
Acoust., Speech andSignal Processing, vol.
ASSP-30, no.
4, pp.566-577, August 1982.\[5\] R.H. Cotton and J.A.
Estrie, Elements ofVoice Quality in Speech and Language, N.J.Lass (Ed.
), Academic Press, 1975.\[6\] G. Fant, "The Source F i l ter  Concept inVoice Production," IV FASE Symposium onAcoustics and Speech, Venezta, April 21-24,1981.\[7\] J.L.
Flanagan, 3.
Acoust.
Soc.
Amer., vol.68, pp.
412-420, August lgBO.\[8\] C.R.
Patlsaul and J.C. Hammett, Jr., J.Acoust.
Soc.
Amer., vol.
58, pp.
1296-1307,December 1975.Time tn t saumlesT?
J (a) Stngle tmpulse excitationPl (b) Two tmpulses excitationPTime In !
samplest I (c)O p T 1 IJ T2-WPTtme |n t sampleil lw , , ," " I I I o I!Time In # stmplesThree tmpulses excitationp (d) Htlbert transform of an tmpulsek- - 'T l  ' 1~PTtme to # samples(e) Ftrst der|vat|ve of Fanl:'smodel of glottal pulseFlq 2.
Different Hodels for excitation533
