TWO THEORIES FOR COMPUTING THE LOGICAL FORM OF MASS EXPRESSIONSFrancis Jeffry PelletierLenhart K. SchubertDept.
Computing ScienceUniversity of AlbertaEdmonton, Alberta T6G 2ElCanadaABSTRACT Applying the rules of translation is even simpler.
Inessence, all that is needed is a mechanism for arrangingThere are various difficulties in accomodating the traditional logical expressions into larger expressions in conformity withmass/count distinction into a grammar for English which the semantic rules.
(For examples of parsers see Thompsonhas a goal the production of "logical form" semantictranslations of the initial English sentences, The presentpaper surveys some of these difficulties.
One puzzle iswhether the distinction is a syntactic one or a semanticone, i.e., whether it is a well-formedness constraint orwhether it is a description of the semantic translationsproduced.
Another puzzle is whether it should be appliedto simple words (as they occur in the lexicon) or whetherit should apply only to longer units (such as entire NPs).Of the wide variety of possible theories, only two seem toproduce the required results (having to do with plausibleinferences and intuitively satisfying semantic representations).These two theories are developed and compared.According to Montague (Thomason 1974), Gazdar(Gazdar et al1984) and a rapidly growing number oflinguists, philosophers, and AI researchers, the logical formunderlying sentences of a natural language aresystematically--and simply--determined by the syntactic formof those sentences.
This view is in contrast with a tacitassumption often made in AI, that computation of logicaltranslations requires throngs of more or less arbitrary rulesoperating upon syntactic forms.
*The following are a few grammar rules inapproximately the style of Gazdar's Generalized PhraseStructure Grammar (GPSG).
They differ from Gazdar'sprimarily in that they are designed to produce more orless "conventional" logical translations, rather than theintensional ones of Montague and Gazdar (for details seeSchubert & Pelletier 1982).
Each rule consists of a rulenumber, a phrase structure rule, and a semantic (logicaltranslation) rule.1.
S .
,  NP VP, VP'(NP')2.
VP .
,  \[V +be\] PRED, PRED'3.
PILED .
* N, N' N,={water,wine,food,furniture,...}Parsing and translating in accordance with such rules is afairly straightforward matter.
Since the syntactic rules arecontext free, standard context-free parsing methods can beemployed, except that allowance must be made for thepropagation of features, with due regard for concord.
'The work reported herein was partially supported byNSERC grants A5525 (FJP) and A8818 (LKS).
We alsowish to thank Matthew Dryer, David Justice, BernardLinsky, and other members of the Univ.
Alberta LogicalGrammar Study Group for discussions on these topics.1981, Schubert & Pelletier 1982, Gawron et al1982,Rosenschein & Shieber 1982).The topic of mass terms and predicates has asubstantial literature within both linguistics and philosophicallogic, with much of the recent research deriving inspirationfrom Montague Grammar (e.g., see Pellefier 1979, terMeulen 1980, Bunt 1981, Chierchia 1982).
There are threeviews on the mass/count distinction, namely that thedistinction is (a) syntactic, (b) semantic,, and (c)pragmatic, Orthogonal to these views we have the furtherpossibilities (i) that the mass/count distinction is lexical.and (ii) that it is determined by the context in which theexpression occurs.
We shall present arguments in the fullpaper to eliminate position (c), leaving us with fourpossible kinds of theories.
( i )  a syntactic expression(lexical) approach, (2) a syntactic occurrence approach.
(3)a semantic expression approach, and (4) a semanticoccurrence approach.
This raises the question of what isthe difference between syntactic approaches generally andsemantic approaches generally.
A syntactic approach treats+mass and +count as syntactic classifications or features,that is as features to be used by the syntactic rules indetermining whether some longer stretch of words iswell-formed.
Central to the semantic approach is the claimthat +count and +mass are not syntactic features orcategories, but rather are a description of the semanticrepresentation of the expression.
In this approach, nosyntactic rules refer to +count or +mass (since these arenot syntactic objects).
Rather, in sentences like Mary putapple in the salad vs. Mary put an apple in the.
salad,the semantic approaches allow us to say that it was amass or count semantic representation of apple only afterinspecting the kind of thing that apple is true of in thesentences.There are reasons for rejecting options (2) and (3).thus leaving us with only a syntactic expression approachand a semantic occurrence approach.
(The reasons aregiven in Pelletier & Schubert 1985).
These are the twotheories of mass expressions that are to be discussed inthe paper.
They seem to us to be the most plausiblecandidates for an adequate theory of the logical form ofsentences involving mass expressions.
The fragment ofEnglish that the two theories of mass expressions areconcerned with is roughly those sentences with a copularverb and either a mass or count expression as predicate,and whose subjects are either bare noun phrases orquantified noun phrases.
A sentence is a noun phrase anda verb phrase.
A verb phrase is a copula followed by a108PP.
E Dohich in turn is either a bare noun (as in Claret is wineor This puddle is ma.......~n - -the latter said after anapplication of the universal grinder) 2 or an a followed bya noun (as in John is a man or Claret is aq wine) or isan entire noun phrase (as in John is the man most likelyto succeed or Claret is ~ favourite red wine).
A nounphrase is either a bare noun (as in Claret is a dry redwine or Dogs are barking outside) or else is a quantifiedterm (as in All men are mortal or Sm red wine is tasty--we include as determiners this, all, some, sin, much, little,each, every, and the numeral quantifiers).
Nouns maythemselves be either an adjective-phrase noun combination,or just a noun.
We consider here two cases of adjectivemodification: intersective and non-intersective.
For theformer we have in mind such adjectives as red, while forthe latter we think of such adjectives as fake.The rules which give alternatives, such as 3p vs.3s, are those rules which are different for the two theoriesof mass terms.
The p-rules are for the semanticoccurrence approach while the s-rules are for the syntacticexpression approach.
The ontological underpinnings of thesetheories are that "reality" contains two sorts of items: (1)"ordinary objects" such as rings, sofas, puddles (andincluding here what many theorists have called "quantitiesof matter").
(2) "kinds", that is, "varieties", "substances",etc.
We have in mind here such items as wine, claret, redwine, and the like, and also servings of such items.
Wewish to make no special metaphysical claims about therelationships that might hold between "ordinary objects"and "kinds"--instead we content ourselves with describinghow such an ontology leads to a simple and naturaldescription of various of the facts concerning mass (andpossibly plural ) expressions.
Linguistically, that issemantically, we take there to be three distinct types ofpredicates: (a) those which apply only to "kinds', e.g., isa substance, is scarce, is a kind o f  wine, is abundant, (b)those which apply only to "objects', e,g., is a quantity o fgoM, is a puddle, and (c) those which can apply to both"kinds" and "objects".
In this last group we have in mindmass predicates uch as is wine.
is furniture, is food, andis computer software.Both of these theories take it that is wine is trueof the (abstract) kind claret in addition to an individualquantity such as the contents of this glass.
Moreover, theytake is wine to be true of an object such as a drop orpuddle of wine, occupying the same region as somequantity of wine.
(This ring is goM or This hamburger isfood are clearer examples of the application of masspredicates to objects.)
Generally speaking, the theories viewthe kinds of M as forming an upper semilattice of kindswith M at the top.
This is a "formal" semilattiee in thatthe union of any two elements of it is a member of thesemilattice, and we view is wine as being true of any ofthese formal kinds.
So a sentence like Cheap wine is winewill be true, since cheap wine names an element of thesemilattice.
Predicates like is a wine are true ofconventionally recognized kinds (Claret is a wine is true)but not of every "formal" kind since, e.g., Cheap wine is2 The universal grinder (Pelletier 1975) takes objectscorresponding to any count noun, grinds them up andspews the result from the other end.
Put a table into itand after a few minutes there is sm table on the floor.
(We regularly represent he unstressed some by sin.
)a wine is not true.
(Sauterne mixed with claret is a wineis also not true, showing that is a wine is not true ofunions of elements of the semilattice).
These predicates arenot only true of the conventional kinds but also ofconventional servings such as the bottle of wine on thetable or the 250ml in this glass.
Note that these can againbe abstract entities: but rather than potentially beingabstract conventional kinds of wine, they can be abstractconventional kinds of servings of wine.
Finally suchpredicates are true of individual quantities--as when we saywe have ordered four wines, all of the same kind andsize.
When a bare mass noun phrase (or indeed other barenoun phrases, although we shall not dwell on them here)is used as a subject (or object, but again we shall notconsider that here), it is taken to name the kind.
So inCheap wine is wine, the subject cheap wine names a kind;and since the sentence is true it must name a "formalkind" so that is wine can be predicated of it.
But sinceCheap wine is a wine is not true, the formal kind cannotbe a conventionally recognized kind (nor, for that matter,a conventional serving nor an individual quantity).
Boththeories hold that mass CN's should be translated into thesemantics as predicates.
Strictly this is not required: for,all we have given direct evidence for is that mass VP's betranslated as predicates with a mixed object/kind extension.It could be the case that mass CN's are quite different,yet in the formation of a mass VP the entire VP getsassigned a mixed, predicate denotation.
Still, it would besimple, and in keeping with much philosophical andlinguistic analysis, to assume coincidence of CN and "isCN" denotations (at least when tense is ignored, as here).With just this much of the theory sketched, wecan overcome various of the difficulties that plagued othertheories.
For example, it is most unclear that any othertheory can adequately translate sentences likeTap water is waterThis puddle is waterConsider also sentences likeAll wine is winewherein the subject all wine seems to quantify over bothkinds of wine and quantities of wine, entailing both Whitewine is wine and The litre o f  wine in this bottle is wine,for example.
It seems to us that no other theory allowsthis comprehensiveness.
An even clearer example of suchcomprehensive denotation is (a), from which both of (b)and (c) follow, given that rice is edible and this sandwichis edible.
(Note also the comprehensive denotation ofedible).
No other theory we know of can account for thevalidity of these two arguments.a.
Everything edible is foodb.
Rice is foodc.
This sandwich is foodBoth of these theories will want to be able, in thesemantics, to form predicates which are true of kinds, orof servings, or of individuals, given a predicate which hascomprehensive extension.
So, for example, from thepredicate water' which is assumed to be true of quantities,servings, and kinds, we shall want to be able to form (kwater') which is true of conventional kinds of water, toform (p water') which is true of conventional portions(and kinds of portions) of water, and to form (q water')109which is true of quantities of water, Conversely, if wehave a predicate which is true of individuals and kinds,we shall want to form a predicate true of all the entitiesthat mass predicates are true of--qnantities of stuff, kindsof stuff, and objects coincident with quantities of stuff.For example, if man' is a predicate true of objects andkinds, then (s man') is the mass predicate formedtherefrom.
Also, we shall want to be able to form thename of a kind from a predicate: (# water') is the nameof the kind water and (# (cheap'(wine')) is the name ofthe kind cheap wine.The rules for the relevant portion of our twotheories are () is our symbol for lambda abstraction):1.
S -) NP VP.
VF(NF)2.
VP -) \[V +be\] PRED.
FRED'3p.
FRED .)
N. N'3s.
FRED .)
\[N +MASS\].
N'4p.
FRED .)
\[DET +a\] N. (tx)\[(k N')(x) v (p N')(x)\]4s.
FRED .
* \[DET +a\] \[N +COUNT\].
N'5.
FRED ,, NP.
( )x ) (x=NF)6.
FRED -) ADJP.
ADJF7p.
NP .)
N. (# N')%.
NP .)
\[N +MASS\].
(~ N')8.
NP .
* DET  N. DET(N')9.
\[N + ADJ F \] .)
\[ADJ P + INTERSECT\] N,()x)\[ADJP'(x) & N'(x)\]10.
\[N +ADJP\] -) \[ADJP ",INTERSECT\] N. ADJF(N')The S-theory distinguishes in the lexicon mass from countnouns.
And it has what might be called "lexical extension"rules to give us the "stretched" meaning of nouns that wehave earlier talked about.
For example, it has\[N +COUNT\ ]  ~ sofa, man,  substance ....\[N +MASS\]  ~ wi.e.w.,er ....\[N +COUNT\] .
,  \[N +MASS\].
(k N')\[N +C(mJNT\] - \[N +MASS\].
(p N')\[N +MASS\] .)
\[N +COUNT\], (s N')Now.
both of these theories can give the correct semanticrepresentation to a wide range of sentences involving massterms, given certain meaning postulates.
(The two theoriesdo it slightly differently, as might be expected since theyhave somewhat different semantic understandings of thelexical nouns.
For example, the s-theory takes man to betrue of individual men and of kinds of men, while thep-theory takes it also to be true of the stuff of whichmen are made.
In the p-theory, when a sentence uses a--as in a man --then the semantic operators convert this"basic" meaning into one that is true of individual menand of kinds of men.
The s-theory rather has a lexical.extension rule which will convert the lexical count nounman into one which is a mass noun and is true of thestuff of which men are made.
They will also take adifferent tack on what quantified terms designate, althoughthat has been hidden in rule $ above by assigning thesame logical form to both theories.
Nonetheless, themeaning postulates of the two theories will differ forthese.)
In addition to the sorts of examples stated above,both these theories can generate and give the correctlogical form to such sentences asWine is wine (two readings, both analytic)Wine is a wine (false)All wine is wine (analytic)Claret is a wine (true)Cheap wine is a wine (false)*All wine is a wine (semantically anomalous)Water is dripping from the faucet (entails: sm wateris dripping from the faucet)Water is a liquid (entails: water is liquid)Both theories make the following six inferences validi.
Claret is a wine, wine is a liquid, so claret is aliquid2.
Claret is a wine, wine is a liquid, so claret is liquid3.
Claret is a wine, wine is liquid, so claret is a liquid4.
Claret is a wine, wine is liquid, so claret is liquid5.
Claret is wine, wine is a liquid, so claret is liquid6.
Claret is wine, wine is liquid, so claret is liquidAnd they both make these two inferences invalid7.
Claret is wine, wine is a liquid, so claret is aliquid8.
Claret is wine, wine is liquid, so claret is a liquidWe know of no other theories which can do all thesethings.
Yet the two theories are radically different: onehas a mass/count distinction in the syntax and the otherdoesn't, and they have different extensions assigned to thelexical items.
So the question naturally arises- which isbetter?
What can be said against the two theories?
Thereis not space in a paper of this size to go into this indetail, so we shall content ourselves with just hurling themain charge that each one directs against the other.Briefly, the p-theory charges the s-theory withpretending to use syntactic features +mass and +count butallowing them to do no syntactic work.
For every, sentencewhich has a mass term in a given location, there isanother sentence which has a count term in that position.No constructious are ruled out; the only use of the+mass/+count  features is in directing the semantictranslation process.
And that suggests that the featuresshould all along have been semantic.
The s-theory chargesthe p-theory with being unable to give coherent meaningpostulates because of its committment o a comprehensiveextension to the lexical terms.
For example, suppose onewanted to give as a meaning (or factual) postulate that Alarab has fur.
The s-theory can do this without difficulty:lamb' is true of individual lambs and the meaning postulatesays of each of them that they have fur.
But thep-theory cannot easily do this: lamb' is true of stuff, sothe predicate must be converted to one which is true ofindividuals.
But there is no provision in the p-theory fordoing this- -the closest that it could come is with apredicate that is true of both conventional kinds and"conventional portions" (i.e., ordinary Iambs).Given the above rules (augmented with additionalfeatures such as number and person agreement features inrule i) we are able to extend the capabilities of ourparsers (Schubert & PeIletier 1982) so that they deliverlogical form translations of sentences involving massexpressions.
These translations have the desired semanticproperties and, with an extension of the inferencemechanisms to allow for predicate modification and~-abstraction.
allow the above valid arguments to beduplicated.
So.
which theory is to be preferred?
That is atopic for further research.
The time for studies of massi i 0expressions with only casual reference to the syntax andsemantics of language is past.
Only systematic attempts toaccount for large classes of mass expressions within formalsyntactic-semantic-pragmatic fr meworks can hope to resolvethe remaining i~sues.WORKS CITEDBunt, H.C. (1981) The Formal Semaraics of Mass TermsDissertation, University of Amsterdam.Chierchla, G. (1982a) "Bare Plurals, Mass Nouns andNominaliration" in D. Flickinger, M. Macken & N.Wiegand (eds) Proceedings of the First West CoastConference on Formal Linguistics 243-255.Gawron, J., J.
King, J. Lamping, E. Loebner, A.Paulson, G. Pullum, I.
Sag, & T. Wasow (1982)"The GPSG Linguistics System" Proc.
20th AnnualMeeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics74-81.Gazdar; G., E. Klein, G. Pullum, I.
Sag (1984) EnglishSyntax (forthcoming).Pelletier, F.J. (1975) "Non-Singular Reference: SomePreliminaries" Philosophia 5.
Reprinted in Pelletier(1979), 1-14.
Page references to the reprint.Pelletier, F.J.
(ed.)
(1979) Mass  Terms: SomePhilosophical Problems (Reidel: Dordrecht).Pelletier, F.J. & L.K.
Schubert (1985) "Mass Expressions"to appear in D. Gabbay & F. Guenthner Handbookof Philosophical Logic, Val.
4 (Reidel: Dordrecht).Rosenschein, S. & S. Shieber (1982) "Translating Englishinto Logical Form" Proc.
20th Annual Meeting of theAssociation for Computational Linguistics.Schubert, L.K.
& F.J. Pelletier (1982) "From English toLogic: Context-Free Computation of 'Conventional'Logical Translation" American Journal of ComputationalLinguistics 8, 26-44.ter Meulen, A.
(1980) Substances, Quantities andIndividuals.
Ph.D. Dissertation, Stanford University.Available through Indiana University Linguistics Club.Thomason, R. (1974) Formal Philosophy: Writings ofRichard Montague, (Yale UP: New Haven).Thompson, H. (1981) "Chart Parsing and Rule Schematain PSG" Proc.
19th Annual Meeting of the Associationfor Computational Linguistics 167-172.iii
