Semantic Interpretation Using KL-ONE 1Norman K. SondheimerUSC/Information Sciences InstituteMarina del Rey, California 90292 USARalph M. WeischedelDept.
of Computer & Information SciencesUniversity of DelawareNewark, Delaware 19716 USARobert J. BobrowBolt Beranek and Newman, Inc.Cambridge, Massachusetts 02238 USAAbstractThis paper presents extensions to the work of Bobrow andWebber \[Bobrow&Webber 80a, Bobrow&Webber 80b\] onsemantic interpretation using KL-ONE to represent knowledge.The approach is based on an extended case frame formalismapplicable to all types of phrases, not just clauses.
The framesare used to recognize semantically acceptable phrases, identifytheir structure, and, relate them to their meaning representationthrough translation rules.
Approaches are presented forgenerating KL-ONE structures as the meaning of a sentence, forcapturing semantic generalizations through abstract case frames,and for handling pronouns and relative clauses.1.
Introduct ionSemantic interpretation is the process of relating thesyntactic analysis of an utterance ",o its meaning representatioh.Syntactic analyses associate immediate constituents with theirsyntactic function in a matrix constituent, e.g., the sentence"Send him the message that arrived yesterday.
", has a syntacticanalysis in RUS \[Bobrow 78\] as shown in Figure 1.2 The elementsof the meaning representation are the objects, events, and statesof affairs perceived by the speaker.
The relationships betweenthese entities will be called semantic functions.
The basis for oursemantic processing scheme is a familiar one based on that ofcase frames used to describe clausa structure \[Bruce 75\].
Ourcase frames are used for all phrase types: clauses, noun phrases,prepositional phrases, etc.
We choose to represent both thesyntactic and semantic analyses in the knowledge representationlanguage KL-ONE \[Brachman&Schmolze 82, Schmolze&Lipkis83, Moser 83\].
The essential properties for the meaningrepresentations constructed are that each concept represents asemantic constituent and each of its roles identifies the semanticfunction of one of its immediate constituents.
Figure 23 gives ananalysis of the example sentence above.
We have picked aconstituent structure and names for semantic functions fitting thecomputer mail application of .the the Consul project atUSC/Information Sciences Institute \[Kaczmarek 83\].
The exactdetails of the analysis are not critical; the essential point is that1This material is based upon work supported in part by the Defense AdvancedResearch Projects Agency under Contract Numbers MDA 903-81-C-0335, ARPAOrder No.
2223, and N00014-77-C-0378, ARPA Order No.
3414.
Views andconclusions contained in this paper are the authors' and should not beinterpreted as representing the official policies of DARPA, the U.S, Government,or any person or agency connected with them.2We use this sentence to illustrate many of the points in this paper.
Assumethat "yesterday" modifies "arrived".3All of the KL-ONE diagrams in this paper are simplified for expositorypurposes,semantic interpretation relates a' phrase's analysis based onsyntactic criteria to one based on semantic criteria.ClauseHead: SendIndire~-I Object: Noun PhraseHead: HimDirect Object Noun PhraseHead: MessageArticle: TheRelative: ClauseHead: ArriveSubject: ThatTime: YesterdayFigure 1: Syntactic Analysis of "Send him the message thatarrived yesterday.".
Simplifications in tense, determiners andnumbers are for the sake of presentation.Figure 2: Meaning Representation of "Send him the messagethat arrived yesterday.".
Simplification on determiners and thefurther-constraints structure for the sake of presentation.I01Our framework does not assume that a syntactic analysis ofa complete sentence is found before semantic interpretationbegins.
Rather, the implemented semantic interpreter proceedsincrementally as the grammar proposes the syntactic function ofan immediate constituent; this moc~el of communication betweensyntax and semantics has been termed a cascade \[Woods80, Bobrow&Webber 80b\].To achieve semantic interpretation, some well.known typesof knowledge need "to be employed, e.g., selection restrictioninformation (often represented using semantic features),structural information (often encoded in case frames), andtranslation information (often defined with various kinds ofprojection rules).Some of the difficulties in representing and applying thisknowledge include the following:1.
Translation rules (projection rules) for generatingcorrect meaning representations must be defined.We have been able to define modular projection rulesthat make use of the inheritance properties of KL-ONE.2.
Since much of the knowledge for a particularapplication is necessarily domain specific, it isimportant o organize it in a way to ease extension ofthe knowledge base and to ease moving to a newdomain.3.
Since distributional restrictions require specificsemantic features, pronouns and other semanticallyneutral terms not necessarily having those featuresmust be accepted wherever they are consistent withthe expected type of noun phrase.4.
The inter-constituent relationships arising in relativeclauses must be consistent with all selectionrestrictions and be represented in the resultingmeaning representation.This paper addresses each of these issues in turn.We are building on techniques presented by Bobrow andWebber \[Bobrow&Webber 80a, Bobrow&Webber 80b\].
Thispaper describes the system currently in use at USC/InformationSciences Institute.
The basic framework is reviewed in Section 2.Section 3 presents the translation mechanism \[Sondheimer 84\].Capturing semantic generalizations is the topic of Section 4.Sections 5 and 6 discuss issues regarding pronouns and relativeclauses, respectively.
Related work is identified in Section 7.
Thefinal section summarizes the results, and identifies further work.A very brief introduction to KL-ONE is provided in an appendix.2.
BackgroundThe framework being developed uses a frame for eachsemantically distinguishable type of phrase.
Thus, a frame will berequired for each class of phrase having a uniq.ue combination of.
semantic distribution,- selection restrictions on constituents making up thephrase, and-_assignment of semantic relations to syntacticfunction.It is likely that the frames will reflect the natural categories ofdescriptions of objects, events, actions, and states of affairs inany particular application.
For example, in the computer maildomain, the following are some frames that have been useful:- Clauses describing the sending of messages: SEND.CLAUSE- Clauses describing message arrival: ARRIVE.CLAUSE- Noun phrases describing messages: MESSAGE-NP-Noun phrases describing senders and recipients:USER-NPIn the framework developed by Bobrow and Webber\[Bobrow&Webber 80a, Bobrow&Webber 80b\], for each frame,each possible immediate constituent is associated by syntacticfunction with a case or slot.
The clause frames have slotsidentified as head, subject, 4"direct object, indirect object, etc.Noun phrase frames have slots for the head, adjective modifiers,article, etc.
Each slot specifies the fillers that are semanticallyacceptable, whether it is required or optional, and the number oftimes it may be filled in a phrase.
The constraints on fillers offrames' slots are stated in terms of other frames, e.g., the directobject of a SEND-CLAUSE must be a MESSAGE.NP, or in termsof word senses and categories of these senses.
Some exampleword sense categories are:?
Message description nouns, such as "message" or"letter": MESSAGE.NOUN?
Information transmission verbs, such as "send" or"forward": TRANSMISSION.VERBIn our domain the constraint on the subject of an ARRIVE-CLAUSE is that it satisfies the MESSAGE.NP frame.
A constrainton the head of the MESSAGE.NP frame is that it is a word sensein the category MESSAGE.NOUN.Frames are represented as KL.ONE concepts.
Case slotsappear as roles of concepts.
5 Semantic constraints on what canfill a case slot are encoded as the value restrictions of roles.These value restrictions are concepts representing frames, wordsenses, or word sense categories.
Number restrictions on rolesshow the number of times the syntactic function may be realized.A required slot is marked by the number restriction on its rolehaving a minimum of 1; an optional slot has a number restrictionwith a minimum of 0 and a maximum greater than 0.
A phrase issaid to instantiate a given frame X if and only if its immediateconstituents atisfy the appropriate value and number restrictionsof all of X's roles.
6 The collection of frames and word-sense4Subject, object, etc.
refer to logical roles rather than surface syntactic ones.51t is possible to associate roles with semantically defined subsets of otherroles, e.g., to assign separate roles to uses of color adjectives, ize adjectives,etc.
This is an important convenience in constructing frames but not crucial toour discussion.6A recognition algorithm for this representation has beenpresented \[Bobrow&Webber 80b\] and several others have been developed sincethen.
Thase will be presented in separate reports.102information is called a Syntaxonomy (for syntactic taxonomy),since it encodes knowledge regarding semantic interpretation ina hierarchy of syntactic classes.3.
Translat ion RulesTo achieve the mapping from syntactic analysis to meaningrepresentation, translation rules are associated with individualframes.
Though the rules we give generate KL-ONE structures asthe meaning representation, other translation rules could bedeveloped for generating forms in a different targetrepresentation language.Any KL.ONE concept C representing a frame has anassociated concept C' representing the main predicate of thetranslation.
For example, the translation of SEND-CLAUSE is theconcept Send-mail.
Translations are stored in data attached tothe frame; we label this data TRANSLATION.The translation rules themselves can be associated withindividual case slots.
When inheritance results in more than onetranslation rule for a case slot, the one originating from the mostspecific frame in the hierarchy is selected.
7Suppose we are building the translation C' of a matchedframe C. One common translation rule that could appear at a roleR of C is (Paraphrase-as R').
This establishes the translation ofthe filler of R as the filler of R' at concept C'.
For example, theindirect object slot of SEND-CLAUSE has the rule "(Paraphrase-as addressee)" to map the translation of the noun phrase in theindirect object position into the addressee role of the Send-mail.Another rule form, (Attach-SD sf), takes a semanticfunction sf as an argument and attaches the translation of theconstituent filling R as the filler F of sf.
A example of its use in theprocessing of relative clauses as described in Section 6.
Attach-SD differs from Paraphrase-as by having facilities to establish arole from F to C'.
This automatic feature is essentially theopposite of Paraphrase.as, in that a semantic function runs fromthe embedded constituent o its matrix phrase.Another rule form is not a translation rule per se, but storesdata with the syntactic concept representing the syntacticanalysis of the phrase.
The data could be checked by other(conditional) translation rules.Underlying these forms and available for more complextypes of translation is a general mechanism having the form"source = = > goal."
The source identifies the structure that is tobe placed at the location identified by the goal.
The formalism forthe source allows reference to arbitrary constants and conceptsand to a path through the concepts, roles, and attached data of aKL-ONE network.
The goal formalism also shows a path througha network and may specify establishment of additional roles.A separate test may be associated with a translation rule tostate conditions on the applicability of a rule.
If the test is false,the rule does not apply, and no translation corresponding to thatrole is generated.
The most common type of condition is(Realized-Function?
role), which is true if and only if some7There is also an escape mechanism that allows inheritance of all rules notindexed to any role.immediate constituent fills that role in the analysis.
It can be usedas an explicit statement hat an optional role is translated only iffilled or as a way of stating that one constituent's translationdepends on the presence of another role.
Additional conditionsare (EMPTY-RC)LE?role), which checks that role is not filled, and(ROLE-FILLER?
role class), which checks that the filler of role isof type class.
Since all three take a role name as argument, theymay be used to state cross,dependencies among roles.Figure 3 contains some of the frames that allow for theanalysis .of our example.
The treatment of the pronoun andrelative clause in the example sentence of Section I will beexplained in Sections 5 and 6.4.Capturing Semantic Generalizationsvia Abst ract  Case FramesVerbs can be grouped with respect to the cases theyaccept \[Simmons 73, Celce-Murcia 76, Gawron 83\]; likewise,groups exist for nouns.
A KL-ONE syntaxonomy allowsstraightforward statement of common properties, as well asindividually distinct properties of group members.
Abstract caseframes are semantic generalizations applicable across a set ofthe familiar sort of concrete frames.
Properties common to thegeneralization can be defined at the abstract frames and relatedto the concrete frames through inheritance.The use of time modification in "that arrived yesterday" isthe same as that of other verbs describing completion of anactivity, e.g., "come", "reach", and "finish".
A general frame forclauses with these verbs can show this role.
The concrete framesfor clauses with verbs in this group are subconcepts and therebyaccept the time modifier (see Figure 4).
The concrete frames canrestrict both the number and type of time modifiers, if necessary.Translation rules associated with this time role can also berestricted at the concrete frames.Some modifiers dramatically affect the translation of entirephrases, as in the partitive modifier "half of".
A description of"half of" some individual entity (as opposed to a set of entities)may not have the same distribution.
For example, "Delete thismessage from my directory.
", makes sense, but "Delete half ofthis message from my directory.
", does not.
This can be easilystated through an abstract frame for the basic messagedescription specialized by two concrete frames(see Figure 5).A related case is "toy X."
The translation of "toy X" iscertainly different from that of X, and their distributions may differas well.
This may be handled in a way similar to the partitiveexample.
8 This class of examples points out the limits of caseframe systems.
Other modifiers, such as "model" and "fake", areeasily recognizable.
However, more complex modifiers also makethe same distinctions, e.g., "The gun that was a fake was8An'interesting alternative is .to show the toy modifier as an optional role on anabstract frame for object descriptions.
Underneath itcould be an abstract framedistinguished only by requiring the toy modification'role.
All appropriateinferences associated with descriptions of toys could De associated with thisconcept.
Frames for the basic descriptions of specific object ypes could beplaced underneath the object description frame.
These could recognize "toy X".Our systems invoke the KL-ONE classifier after the recognition of each phrase\[Schmolze&Lipkis 83\].
in this case, classification will result in identification fthephrase ss a kind of both X description and toy description allowing translation toshow what is known about both without creating a "toy X" frame by hand.
Wehave not completely analyzed the affect of this strategy on the translation system.103TB A k i t21  A T I t~k J  *~slation Rule: If (Realized-Function?
Indirect Object)then (Paraphrase-as addressee)~slation Rule: (Paraphrase.as message)TRANSLATION:)Min:l Max:l_~Subject Min:O Max:l Translation Rule: If (Realized.Function?
Subject)then (Paraphrase-as message)Time Min:0 Max:l Translation Rule: If (Realized.Function?
Time)then(Paraphrase.as completion-time.interval)TRANSLATION:Min:l M a x : ~Determiner Min:lRelative Min:O Max:oo Translation Rule: If (Realized-Function?
Relative)then (Attach.SD further.constraint)Figure 3: Some frames used for "Send him the message that arrived yesterday.
".tiFigure 4: A fragment of the syntaxonomy.
Double arrows aresubc relationships, i.e., essentially "is-a" arcs.
Not all roles areshown.partitive ~ partitiveMin:O Max:O Min:l Max:lFigure 5: Syntaxonomy for partitives.104John's.
", and "The gun that was made of soap was John's.
".Viewing our semantic interpretation system as a special purposeinfereoce system, it seems prudent to leave the recognition of thetype of these "guns" to more general.purpose reasoners.Abstract case frames have significantly eased thedevelopment and expansion of semantic coverage within ourapplication by helping us to focus on issues of generality andspeciiicity.
The new frames we add have many slots establishedby inheritance; consistency has been easier to maintain; and thestructure of the resulting syntaxonomy has helped in debugging.5.
Semantically Neutral TermsCase frames are an attempt to characterize semanticallycoherent phrases, for instance, by selection restrictions.
Incomputational linguistics, selection restrictions have beenapplied to the constituents that are possible fillers rather than towhat the constituents denote.
For example, the restriction on thedirect object of a SEND-CLAUSE is MESSAGE-NP, rather thanmessages.
Problems with using such approximations in parsingare discussed in \[Ritchie 83\].For many natural language interfaces, a noun phrase'sinternal structure gives enough information to determine whetherit satisfies a restriction, s However, there are forms whosesemantic interpretation does not provide enough information toguarantee the satisfaction of a constraint and yet need to beallowed as fillers for slots.
These include pronouns, someelliptical forms, such as "the last three", and otherneutral nounphrase forms, such as "the thing" and "the gift".
This alsoincludes some nonlexical gestural forms like the input from adisplay that shows where the user pointed (literally or via amouse).
We refer to all of these as sernantica//y neutra/terms.
Asemantic interpretation system should accept such forms withoutgiving up restrictions on acceptable semantic categories.However, these forms cannot, in general, appear everywhere.
Indiscussing computer mail, "1 sent him" should be considerednonsense.Bobrow and Webber \[Bobrow&Webber 80b\] propose ageneral strategy for testing the compatibility of a constituent as aslot filler based on non-incompatibility.
The current system atUSC/ISI takes a conservative view of this proposal, developingthe idea for only neutral reference forms.
All noun phrase typesdisplaying neutral reference are defined as instances of theconcept NeutraIReference.NP.
Furthermore, disjointness"relations are marked between the various subclasses of neutralreferences and those classes of explicit descriptions which havenonintersecting sets of potential references.
Duringinterpretation, when such a NeutralReference-NP is proposed asa slot filler, and that concept is not disjoint from the valuerestriction on the slot, it is accepted.In addition, since the slot restriction and the filler each havemeaning of their own, e.g., "he" describes a human male in thecomputer mail domain, the translation should show thecontribution of both the neutral term and the constraint on theslot.
When the neutral form is qualified as a constituent by thesystem, both the neutral form and the selection constraint are9Clearly, misreference also intederes with this method \[Goodman 8,3\], as doespersonification, metonymy and synecdoche.
We propose other methods for theselast phenomena in \[Weischedel 84, Weischedel 83\].remembered.
When it is time to produce the translation, thetranslation rule for the slot applies to a concept which is theconjunction of the translations of the neutral reference form andthe restriction.Part of the network that supports the translation of "he" inthe example of section 1 is shown in Figure 6.
Referring toFigures 2 and 3, the effect of a reference to a male where areference to a computer-user was expected can be seen.~ANSLAT ION:  sexI Head Min:l Max:l~TRANSLAT ION:Figure 6: Network for "he."
Note that computer User is asubconcept of Person.6.
Inter-Constituent Relationships:Relative ClausesIn relative clauses, the constraint on the slot filled by therelative pronoun or the trace 1?
must be satisfied by the nounphrase that the relative clause modifies.
In addition, thetranslation of the noun phrase must reflect the contribution of theuse of the pronoun or trace in the relative clause.
For example, in"Send him the message that arrived yesterday", the constraint onthe subject of "arrive" must be satisfied by the noun phrase ofwhich it is a part.
Further, translation must result in co-referencewithin the meaning representation of the value of the messagerole of the Arrival.mail concept and the value of the message roleof the Send.mail concept (see Figure 2).
This is a form of inter-constituent relationship.Our system processes relative clauses by treating therelative pronouns and trace elements as neutral reference forms(just as in the pronominal cases discussed in Section 5 and bystoring the constraints on the head of the relative clause untilthey can be employed directly.
In our example, the noun phrase"that" is seen as a Trace-NP, a kind of NeutralReference.NP.The structure assigned "that" is compatible with MESSAGE-NPand hence acceptable.
On translation, the Trace-NP is treatedlike a neutral reference but the role and unchecked constraint arerecorded, as attached data on the instantiated case frame thatresults from parsing the arrival clause.
In the example, the factsthat a Trace.NP is in the subject role and that a Message.NP isrequired are stored.
That constraint is tested against theclassification of the matrix noun phrase when the clause isproposed as a relative clause modifier.
1110The RUS parser which we employ supplies a "trace" to establish ?
syntacticplace holder with reduced relatives.11 If the use of the relative pronoun or trace is inside ?
phrase inside the relativeclause, as in "the town from which I come", the role and constraint will be passedupward twice,105If that constraint is satisfied, the fact that the relativepronoun and noun phrase co-refer is recorded.
When the entirenoun phrase is processed successfully, the appropriate co-references are established by performing (Attach-SD further-constraint) and by retrieving the translation associated with therole filled by the Trace-NP.
This establishes co-referencebetween the concept attached by the translation rule and the: translation of the entire noun phrase.
In our example, thetranslation of the noun phrase is made the value of the messagerole of the Arrival-mail.7.
Related WorkOur technique uses properties of KL-ONE to build asimplified, special-purpose inference engine for" semanticinterpretation.
The semantic processor is separate from bothsyntactic and pragmatic processing, though it is designed tomaintain well-defined interaction with those components throughWoods's cascade model of natural language processing \[Woods80\].
Uniform methods include logic grammars \[Pereira83, Palmer 83\] and semantic grammars\[Burton 77, Hendrix78, Wilensky 80\].
Logic grammars employ a Horn-clause theoremprover for both syntactic and semantic processing.
Semanticgrammars collapse syntactic and semantic analysis into anessentially domain.specific grammar.
Semantic interpretation ishandled through unification in some evolving systems, such asPATTR-II \[Robinson 83\].Several recent systems have separate semanticinterpretation components.
Hirst \[Hirst 83\] uses a Montague-inspired approach to produce statements in a frame language.He uses individual mapping rules tied to the meaning-affectingrules of a grammar.
Boguraev \[Boguraev 79\] presents a semanticinterpreter based on patterns very similar to those of our caseframes.
The meaning representation it produces is very similar tothe structure of our case frames.8.
ConclusionWe have presented approaches to typical difficulties inbuilding semantic interpreters.
These have included a sketch of atranslation system that maps from the matched frames to KL-ONEmeaning representations.
The idea of abstract case frames andapplications of them were introduced.
Finally, ways of acceptingneutral references and allowing for the inter-constituentconstraints imposed by relative clauses were presented.Our experience indicates that KL-ONE is effective as ameans of building and employing a library of case frames.
Thebasic approach is being used in research computer systems atboth USC/Information Sciences Institute and Bolt Beranek andNewman, Inc.Of course, many problems remain to be solved.
Problemscurrently under investigation include:- Robust response to input that appears semanticallyill.formed, such as using an unknown word,- A general treatment of quantification,- Treatment of.conjunction,.
Feedback from the pragmatic component to guidesemantic interpretation,?
Generation of error messages (in English) based onthe case frames if the request seems beyond thesystem's capabilities,- Understanding classes of metonymy, such as "Sendthis window to Jones," and?
Provision for meaningful use of nonsense phrases,such as "Can I send a package over the ARPAnet?"I.
Brief Description of KL-ONEKL-ONE offers a rigorous means of specifying terms(concepts) and basic relationships among them, such assubset/superset, disjointness, exhaustive cover, and relationalstructure.
Concepts are denoted graphically as ovals.
Conceptsare Structured objects whose structure is indicated by namedrelations (ro/es) between concepts.
Roles are drawn as arcscontaining a circle and square.
The concepts at the end of therole arcs are said to be va/ue restrictions.
In addition, roles havemaximum and minimum restrictions on the number of conceptsthat can be related by the role to the concept at the origin of thearc.
Concepts can also have data attached to them, stored as aproperty list.
Finally, the set of concepts is organized into aninheritance hierarchy, through subc relations drawn with double.line arrows from the subconcept o the superconcept.All of the KL-ONE diagrams in the text are incomplete; forinstance, Figures 3 and 5 focus on different aspects of what isone KL-ONE structure.
In figure 3, the diagram for SEND-CLAUSE specifies the concepts of "send" clauses.
They haveexactly one head, which must be the lexical concept "send.
"Theymust have a direct object which is a MESSAGE.NP, andthey optionally have an indirect object which is a USER-NP.Figure 5 shows that SEND-CLAUSE's are MESSAGE-TRANSMISSION-CLAUSE's, which are a type of CLAUSE.The meaning representation, Figure 2, generated for "Sendhim the message that arrived yesterday" consists of the conceptSend-mail, having an addressee which is a Computer-User and amessage which is ComputerMail.References\[Bobrow 78\] R.J. Bobrow, "The RUS System," in B.L.
Webber,R.
Bobrow (eds.
), Research in Natura/ LanguageUnderstanding, Bolt, Beranek, and Newman, Inc.,Cambridge, MA, 1978.
BBN Technical Report 3878.\[Bobrow&Webber 80a\] Robert Bobrow and Bonnie Webber,"PSI-KLONE: Parsing and Semantic Interpretation in theBBN Natural Language Understanding System," inProceedings of the 1980 Conference of the CanadianSociety for Computationa/ Studies of/nte//igence,CSCSI/SCEIO, May 1980.106\[Bobrow&Webber 80b\] Robert Bobrow and Bonnie Webber,"Knowledge Representation for Syntactic/SemanticProcessing," in Proceedings of the National Conference onArtificial Intelligence, AAAI, August 1980.\[Boguraev 79\] Branimir K. Boguraev, Automatic Resolution ofLinguistic Ambiguities, Computer Laboratory, University ofCambridge, Cambridge, U.K., Technical Report NO.
11,August 1979.\[Brachman&Schmolze 82\] James Schmolze and RonaldBrachman (eds.
), Proceedings of the 1981 KL-ONEWorkshop, Fairchild, Technical Report No.
618, May 1982.\[Bruce 75\] B. Bruce, "Case Systems for Natural Language,"Artificial Intelligence 6,(4), 1975, 327-360.\[Burton 77\] R.R.
Burton, J.S.
Brown, Semantic Grammar: Atechnique for constructing natural anguage interface toinstructional systems, Bolt, Beranek, and Newman, Inc., BBNReport 3587, May 1977.
Cambridge, MA\[Celce-Murcia 76\] M. Celce-Murcia, "Verb Paradigms forSentence Recognition," American Journal of ComputationalLinguistics, 1976.
Microfiche 38.\[Gawron 83\] J. M. Gawron, Lexical Representation and theSemantics of Complementation, Ph.D. thesis, Univ.
ofCalifornia, Berkeley, Linguistics Dept., 1983.\[Goodman 83\] Bradley A. Goodman, "RepairingMiscommunication: Relaxation in Reference," in AAAI-83,Proceedings of the National Conference on ArtificialIntelligence, pp.
134-138, AAAI, Washington, D.C., August1983.\[Hendrix 78\] Gary Hendrix, et al, "Developing a NaturalLanguage Interface to Complex Data," ACM Transactions onDatabase Systems 3, (2), 1978, 105-147.\[Hirst 83\] G. Hirst, "A Foundation for Semantic Interpretation," inProceedings of the 21st Annual Meeting of the Associationfor Computational Linguistics, pp.
64-73, Association forComputational Linguistics, June 1983.\[Kaczmarek 83\] T. Kaczmarek, W. Mark, and N. Sondheimer,"The Consul/CUE Interface: An Integrated InteractiveEnvironment," in Proceedings of CHI '83 Human Factors inComputing Systems, pp.
98.102, ACM, December 1983.\[Moser 83\] M.G.
Moser, "An Overview of NIKL, the NewImplementation ofKL-ONE," in Research in NaturalLanguage Understanding, B01t, Beranek, and Newman, Inc.,Cambridge, MA, 1983.
BBN Technical Report 5421.\[Palmer 83\] Martha Stone Palmer, "Inference.Driven SemanticAnalysis," in AAAI-83, Proceedings of the NationalConference on Artificial Intelligence, pp.
310-313, AAAI,Washington, D.C., August 1983.?
\[Pereira 83\] Fernando C. N. Pereira and David H. D. Warren,"Parsing as Deduction," in Proceedings of the 21th AnnualMeeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics,pp.
137-144, Association for Computational Linguistics,Cambridge, Massachusetts, June 1983.\[Ritchie 83\] G. Ritchie, "Semantics in Parsing," in MargaretJ.
King (ed.
), Parsing Natural Language, pp.
199-217,, 1963.\[Robinson 83\] Jane Robinson et at.._=, Personal Communication,1983\[Schmolze&Lipkis 83\] James Schmolze, Thomas Lipkis,"Classification in the KL-ONE Knowledge RepresentationSystem," in Proceedings of the Eighth International JointConference on Artificial Intelligence, IJCAI, 1983.\[Simmons 73\] R. F. Simmons, "Semantic Networks: TheirComputation and Use for Understanding EnglishSentences," in R. Schank and K. Colby (eds.
), ComputerModels of Thought and Language, pp.
63-113, W.H.
Freeman and Company, San Francisco, 1973.\[Sondheimer 84\] Norman K. Sondheimer, Consul Note 23:"Translating to User Model", 1984.\[Weischedel 83\] Ralph M. Weischedel and NormanK.
S0ndheimer, "Meta-Rules as a Basis for Processing Ill-Formed Input," American Journal of ComputationalLinguistics 9, (3-4), 1983.\[Weischede184\] Ralph M. Weischedel and NormanK.
Sondheimer, Consul Note 22: "Relaxing Constraints inMIFIKL ", 1984.\[Wilensky 80\] Wilensky, Robert and Yigal Arens, "PHRAN .. AKnowledge-Based Natural Language Understander," inProceedings of the 18th Annual Meeting of the Associationfor Computational Linguistics and Parasession on Topics inInteractive Discourse, pp.
117-121, Association forComputational Linguistics, Philadelphia, PA, June 1980.\[Woods 80\] W.A.
Woods, "Cascaded ATN Grammars," AmericanJournal of Computational Linguistics 6, (1), 1980, 1-12.107
