UNDERSTANDING PRAGMATICALLY ILL-FORMED INPUTFL Sandra CarberryDepartment of Computer ScienceUniversity of DelawareNewark, Delaware 19711 USAABSTRACTAn utterance may be syntactically and semant-Ically well-formed yet violate the pragmatic rulesof the world model.
This paper presents acontext-based strateEy for constructing a coopera-tive but limited response to pragmatlcally ill-formed queries.
Sug~estlon heuristics use a con-text model of the speaker's task inferred from thepreceding dialogue to propose revisions to thespeaker's ill-formed query.
Selection heuristicsthen evaluate these suggestions based upon seman-tic and relevance criteria.I INTRODUCTIONAn utterance may be syntactically and semant-ically well-formed yet violate the prasmatlc rulesof the world model.
The system will thereforeview it as "ill-formed" even if a native speakerfinds it perfectly normal.
This phenomenon hasbeen termed "pragmatic overshoot" \[Sondheimer andWeischedel,1980\] and may be divided into threeclasses:\[ I\] User-specifled relationships that doexist in the world model.\[2\]notEXAMPLE: "Which apartments are forsale?
"In a real estate model, single apart-ments are rented, not sold.
However apart-ment buildings, condominiums, townhouses, andhouses are for sale.User-specified restrictions on the relation-ships which can never be satisfied, even withnew entries.EXAMPLE: "Which lower-level Englishcourses have a maxim,-, enrollment of atmost 25 students?
"In a University world model, it may bethe case that the maxim,-, enrollments ofThis material is based upon work supported by theNational Science Foundation under grants IST-8009673 and IST-8311400lower-level English courses are constrainedto have values larger than 25 but that suchconstraints do not apply to the currentenrollments of courses, the maximum enroll-ments of upper-level English courses, and themaximum enrollments of lower-level courses inother departments.
The sample utterance ispragmatically ill-formed since world modelconstraints prohibit the restricted relationsspecified by tbe user.\[3\] User-specifled relationships which result ina query that is irrelevant to the user'sunderlying task.EXAMPLE: "What is Dr. Smlth ' s homeaddress?
"The home addresses of faculty at auniversity may be available.
However if astudent wants to obtain special permission totake a course, a query requesting theinstructor's home address is inappropriate;the speaker should request the instructor'soffice address or phone.
Although suchutterances do not violate the underlyingdomain world model, they are a variation ofpragmatic overshoot in that they violate thelistener's model of the speaker's underlyingtask.A cooperative partlc/pant uses the informa-tion exchanged during a dialogue and his knowledgeof the domain to hypothesize the speaker's goalsand plans for achieving those goals.
This contextmodel of goals and plans provides clues for inter-preting utterances and formulating cooperativeresponses.
When pragmatic overshoot occurs, ahuman listener can modify the speaker's ill-formedquery to form a similar query X that is both mean-ingful and relevant.
For example, the query"What is the area of the special weaponsmag~azine of the Alamo?
"erroneously presumes that storage locations havean AREA attribute in the REL database of ships\[Thompson, 1980\] ; this is an instance of the firstclass of pragmatlc overshoot.
Depending upon thespeaker's underlying task, a listener m/ght inferthat the speaker wants to know the REMAINING-CAPACITY, TOTAL-CAPACITY, or perhaps even theLOCATION (if "area" is interpreted as referring to"place") of the Alamo's Special Weapons Magazine.In each case, a cooperative participant uses thepreceding dialogue and his knowledge of the200speaker to formulate a response that ~.%ght providethe desired information.This paper presents a method for handl ingthis first class of pragmatic overshoot by formu-lating a modified query X that satisfies thespeaker's needs.
Future research may extend thlstechnique to handle other pragmatic overshootclasses.Our work on pragmatic overshoot processing ispart of an on-going project to develop a robustnatural language interface \[Weischedel and Son-dhetmer, 1983\].
Mays\[1980\], Webber andNays\[1983\], and Ramshaw and Welschedel\[1984\] havesuggested mechanisms for detecting the occurrenceof pragmatic overshoot and identifying its causes.The ms.ln contribution of our work is a context-based strategy for constructing a cooperative butllm~ted response to pragmatically ill-formedqueries.
This response satisfies the user's per-ceived needs, inferred beth from the precedingdialogue and the ill-formed utterance.
In partic-ular,\[i\] A context model of the user's goals and plansprovides expectations about utterances,expectations that may be used to model theuser's goals.
We use e context mechanism\[Carberry, 1983\] to build the speaker'sunderlying task-related plan as the dialogueprogresses and differentiate between localand global contexts.\[23 Only alternative queries which mis~htrepresent the user's intent or at leastsatisfy his needs are considered.
OurbvDothesls is that the user'a lnferred plan,~bythecontextmode l ,  ~Jtggg4Lt,~substitution for the ZL ~ causln~ theovershoot.II KNOWLEDGE REPRES~TATIONOur system requires a representation for eachof the following:\[i\]\[2\]\[3\]\[,\]the set of dome/n-dependent plans and goalsthe speaker,s plan inferred from the preced-ing dialoguethe existing relationships among attributesand entity sets in the underlying world modelthe semantic difference of attributes, rela-tions, entity sets, and functlon~Plans are represented using an extendedSTRIPS \[Fikes and Nilsson, 1971\] formalism.
A plancan contain subgoals and actions that have associ-ated plans.
We use a context tree \[Carberry,1983\] to represent the speaker's inferred plan asconstructed from the preceding dialogue.
Nodeswithin this tree represent goals and actions whichthe  speaker has investlgated;these nodes are des-cendants of parent nodes representing higher-levelgoals whose associated plans contain these lower-level actions.
The context tree represents theglobal context or overall plan inferred for thespeaker.
The focused plan is a subtree of thecontext tree and represents the local context orparticular aspect of the plan upon which thespeaker's attention is currently focused.
Thisfocused plan produces the strongest expectationsfor future utterances.An entity-relationship model states the pos-sible primitive relationships among entity sets.Our world model includes a generalization hierar-chy of entity sets, attributes, relations, andfunctions and also specifies the types of attri-butes and the dome/ns of functions.III CONSTRUCTING THE CONTEXT MODELThe plan construction component is describedin \[Carberry, 1983\].
It hypothesizes and tracksthe changing task-level goals of a speaker duringthe course of a dialogue.
Our approach is toinfer a lower-level task-related goal frsm thespeaker,s explicitly comaunlcated goal, relate itto potential hi~er-level plans, and build thecomplete plan context as the dialogue progresses.The context mechanism distinguishes local and glo-bal contexts and uses these to predict new speakergoals from the current utterance.IV PRAGMATIC OVERSHOOT PROCESSINGOnce pragmatic overshoot has been detected,the system formulates a revised query QR request-ing the lnformatlon needed by the user.
Ourhypothesis is that the user's inferred plan,represented by the context model, suggests a sub-stitution for the proposition that caused thepragmatic overshoot.
The system then selects fromamongst these suggestions using the criteria ofrelevance to the current dialogue, semanticdifference from the proposition in the user'squery, and the type of revision operation appliedto this proposition.A.
Su~st ionThe suggestion mechanism examines the currentcontext model and possible expansions of its con-stituent goals and actions, proposing substitu-tions for the proposition causing the pragmatlcovershoot.
This erroneous proposition representseither a non-exlstent attribute or entity setrelationship or a function applied to an inap-propriate set of attribute values.The suggestion mechanism applies two classesof rules.
The first class proposes a simple sub-201atitution for an attribute, entity set, relation,or function appearing in the erroneous proposi-tion.
The second class proposes a conjunction ofpropositions representing an expanded relatlon~ippath as a substitution for the user-specifledpropositlo~ These two classes of rules may beused together to propose both an expanded rela-tionship path .and an attribute or entity set sub-stitution.I.
SimD~-Substitution RulesSuppose a student wants to pursue an indepen-dent study project; such projects can be directedby full-time or part-time faculty but not byfaculty who are "extension" or "on sabbatical".The student might erroneously enter the query"what is the classificatioD of Dr.
Smith?
"Only students have classification attributes (suchas Arts&Science-1985, Engineerlng-1987); facultyhave attributes such as rank, status, age, andtitle.
Pursuing an independent study projectunder the direction of Dr. Smith requires that Dr.Smith's status be "full-time" or "part-time".
Ifthe listener knows the student wants to pursueindependent study, then he might infer that thestudent needs the value of this status attributeand anger  the revised query"What is the status of Dr.
Smith?
"The suggestion mechanic, contains five simplesubstitution rules for handling such erroneousqueries.
One such rule proposes a substitutionfor the user-specifled attribute in the erroneouspropositio~ Intuitively, a listener anticipatesthat the speaker will need to know each entity andattribute value in the speaker's plan inferredfrom the domain and the preceding dialogue.
Sup-pose this inferred plan contains an attribute ATTIfor a member of ENTITY-SETI, namely ATTI(ENTITY-SETI ,attribute-value), and that the speakererroneously requests the value of attribute ATTUfor a member entl of ENTITY-SETI.
Then a coopera-tive listener might infer that the value of ATTIfor entity entl will satisfy the speaker's needs,especially if attributes ATTI and ATTU are closelyre la ted .The substitution mechanism searches theuser's inferred plan and its possible expansionsfor propositions whose arguments unify with thearguments in the erroneous proposition causing thepragmatic overshoot.
The above rule then suggestssubstituting the attribute from the plan's propo-sition for the attribute specified in the user'squery.
This substitution produces a queryrelevant to the current dialogue and may capturethe speaker's intent or at least satisfy hisneeds.2.
ExDanded Path RulesSuppose a student wants to contact Dr. Smithto discuss the appropriate background for a newseminar course.
Then the student might enter thequery"What is Dr. Smith's phone number?
"Phone numbers are associated with homes, offices,and departmental offices.
Course discussions withprofessors may be handled in person or by phone;contacting a professor by phone requires that thestudent dial the phone number of Dr. Smith,soffice.
Thus the listener might infer that thestudent needs the phone number of the office occu-p ied  by Dr. Smith.The second class of rules handles such "miss-ing logical Joins".
(This is somewhat related tothe philosophical concept of "deferred ostenalon"\[Qulne,1569\].)
These rules apply when the entitysets are not directly related by the user-specified relation RLU-- -  but there is a path Rin the entity relationship model between theentity sets.
We call this path expansion since byfinding the missing Joins between entity sets, weare constructing an expanded relational path.Suppose the inferred plan for the speakerincludes a sequence of relationsR1 (ENTITY-SETI ,~TITY-SETA)R2 ( ENTITY-SETA, ~ TITY-SETB)R3(ENTITY-SETB, ~TITY-SET2) ;then the listener anticipates that the speakerwill need to know those members of ~TITY-SETIthat are related by the composition of relationsRI ,R2,R3 to a member of EIqTITY-SET2.
If thespeaker erroneously requests those members" ofENTITY-SETI that are related by ~ (or alterna-tively RI or R3) to members of ~TITY-SET2, thenperhaps the speaker really meant the expanded pathRImR2*R3.
The path expansion rules suggest sub-stituting this expanded path for the user-specified relation.We employ a user model to constrain pathexpansion.
This model represents the speaker'sbeliefs about membership in entity sets.
If prag-matic overshoot occurs because the speaker misuseda relationR(ENTITY-SETI, ~TITY-SET2)by specifying an argument that is not a member ofthe correct entity set for the relation, then pathexpansion is permitted only if the user modelindicates that the speaker may believe the errone-ous argument is not a member of that entity set.EXAMPLE: "Which bed i s  Dr. Brown ass igned?
"Suppose beds are  ass igned to  pat ients  ina hosp i ta l  model.
I f  Dr. Brown i s  a doctorand doctors  cannot  s imu l taneous ly  bepat ients ,  then path expans ion  i s  permi t ted  i four user  model ind icates  that  the speaker  mayrecognize that Dr. Brown is not a patient.In this case, our expanded path expressionmay retrieve the beds assigned to patients ofDr.
Brown, if this is suggested by theinferred task-related plan.202To limit the components of path expressionsto those relations which can be meaningfully com-bined in a given context, we make a strong assump-tion: that the relations comprising the relevantexpansion appear on a single path within the con-text tree representing the speaker's inferredplan.
For example, suppose the speaker's inferredplan is to take C-$105.
Expansion of this planwill contain the two actionsLearn-From-Teacher-  In-Cl ass( SPEAKER,se c t ion ,  faculty)such that Teach( faculty, section)Obtain-Necessary-Extra-Help( SPEAKER,section, teaching-asslstant)such that Assists(teaching-assistant, section)The associated plans for these two actions specifyrespectively that the speaker attend class at thetime the section meets and that the speaker meetwith the section's teaching assistant at the timeof his office hours.
Now cons ider  the utterance"When are teaching assistants available?
"A direct relationship between teachinE assistantsand time does not exist.
The constraint that allcomponents of a path expression appear on a singlepath in the inferred task-related plan prohibitscomposing Assists(teachlng-asslstant,sectlon) andMeet-Time(sectlon, tlme) to suggest a reply con-sisting of the times that the CSI05 sections meet.S.
~ ~ c h a ~ s mThe substitution and path expansion rulespropose substitutions for the erroneous proposi-tion that caused the pragmatic overshoot.
Threecriteria are used to select frnm the proposed sub-stitutions the revised query, if any, that is mostlikely to satisfy the speaker's intent in makingthe utterance.First, the relevance of the revised query tothe speaker's plans and goals is measured by threefactors:\[i\] A revised query that interrogates an aspectof the current focused plan is most relevantto the current dialogue.\[2\] The set of higher level plans whose expan-sions led to the current focused plan form astack of increasingly more general, andtherefore less immediately relevant, activeplans to which the user may return.
Arevised query which interrogates an aspect ofan active plan closer to the top of thisstack is more expected than a query whichreverts back to a more general active plan.\[33 Within a given active plan, a revised querythat investigates the single-level expansionof an action is more expected, and thereforemore relevant, than a revised query thatinvestigates details at a much deeper levelof expsns ion.Second, we can classify the substitutionT-->V which produced the revlsed query into fourcategories, each of which represents a more signl-flcant, and therefore less preferable, alterationof the user's query (Figure I).
Category I con-tains expanded relational paths R11P.?S...
mRn suchthat the user-speclfied attribute or relationappears in the path expression.
For example, theexpanded pathTreats( Dr. BrOwn, patient) Wls- Assigned( patient, room)is a Category I substitution for the user-specified proposit ionI s -  Assigned( Dr. Brown, rotz~)SUBSTITUTIONCATEGORY TERM TExpanded re la t iona l  pathinc lud ing  the user-specifledattribute or relationAt t r ibute ,  re la t ion ,  ent i tyse t ,  or  funct ion  semant ica l lys imi la r  to  that  spec i f iedby the userExpanded relational path,including an attribute orrelation semantically similarto that speclfled by the userDouble substitution: entityset and relation semanticallysimilar to a user-speclfledentity set and relationSUBSTITUTIONVARIABLE VUser -spec l f led  a t t r ibuteor re la t ionUser -spec i f ied  a t t r ibute ,  \[re la t ion ,  ent i ty  se~, orfunct ionUser -spec i f led  a t t r ibuteor re la t ionUser -spec i f ied  ent i ty  set \ [and re la t ion  IIIFigure I.
Classification of Query Revision Operations203contained in the semantic representation of thequery"Which bed is Dr. Brown assigned?
"Category 2 contains simple substitutions thatare semantically similar to the attribute, rela-tion, entity set, or function specified by thespeaker.
An example of Category 2 is the previ-ously discussed substitution of attribute "status"for the user specified attribute "classification"in the query"What is the classification of Dr.
Smith?
"Categories 3 and 4 contain substitutions thatare formed by either a Category I path expansionfollowed by a Category 2 substitution or by twoCategory 2 substltutlons.Third, the semantic difference between therevised query and the original query is measuredin two ways.
First, if the revised query is anexpanded path, we count the number of relationscomprising that path; shorter paths are moredesirable than longer ones.
Second, if therevised query contains an attribute, relation,function, or entity set substitution, we use ageneralization hierarchy to semantically comparesubstitutions with the items for which they aresubstituted.
Our difference measure is the dis-tance from the item for which the substitution isbeing made to the closest common ancestor of itand the substituted item; small difference meas-ures are preferred.
In particular, each attri-bute, relation, function, and entity set ATTRFENTis assigned to a primitive semantic class:PRIM-CLASS(  ATTRFENT , CLASSA)Each semantic class is assigned at most oneimmediate auperclass of which it is a proper sub-set :SUPER( CLASSA, CL ASSB)We define function f such thatf(ATTRFENT , i+1) = CL~.SSif PRIM-CLASS( ATTRFENT, CLASSal )and SUPER( CLA$Sal, CLASSa2)and SUPER( CLASSa2, CLASSaS)and .
.
.and SUPER( CLkSSal, CLASS)If a revised query proposes substitutingATTRFENTnew for ATTRFENTold, thensemantl c#difference ( ATTRFEN Tnew, ATTRFEN Told)=NIL if there does not exist j,k such thatf( ATTRFEN Tnew, j) =f( ATTRFENTold, k)=mln k such that there exists j such thatf( ATTRFEN Tnew, j) =f( ATTRFEN Tol d, k)otherwiseAn initial set is constructed conslstil~g ofthose suggested revised queries that interrogatean aspect of the current focused plan in the con-text model.
These revised queries are particu-larly relevant to the current local context of thedialogue.
Members of this set whose differencemeasure is small and whose revision operation con-sists of a path expansion or simple substitutionare considered and the most relevant of these areselected by measuring the depth within the focusedplan of the component that suggested each revisedquery.
If none of these revised queries meets apredetermined acceptance level, the same selectioncriteria are applied to a newly constructed set ofrevised queries sug~sted by a higher level activeplan whose expansion ied to the current focusedplan, and a less stringent set of selection cri-teria are applied to the original revised query .~et.
(The revised queries in this new set are notimmediately relevant to the current local dialoguecontext but are relevant to the global context.
)As we consider revised queries suggested by higherlevel plans in the stack of active plansrepresenting the global context, the acceptancelevel for previously considered queries isdecreased.
Thus revised queries which were notrated h i l l y  enough to terminate processing whenfirst suggested may eventually be accepted afterless relevant aspects of the dialogue have beeninvestigated.
This relaxation and query setexpansion is repeated until either an acceptablerevised query is produced or all potential revisedqueries have been consldered.V EX~.MPLF~Several examples are provided to illustratethe suggestion and selection strategies.\[I\] Relation or  Entity Set  Substitution"Which apartments are  fo r  sale?
"In a real-estate model, single apart-ments are rented, not sold.
However apart-ment buildings, condc~ini,-,s, townhouses, andhouses are for sa le .
Thus the speaker'sutterance contains the erroneous propositionFor-Sale(apar tment)where apartment is a member of entity setAPARTMENT.If the preceding dialogue indicates thatthe speaker is seeking temporary livingarrangements, then expansion of the contextmodel representing the speaker's inferredplan will contain the posslble actionRent( SPEAKER, apartment)such that For-Rent(apartment)The substitution rules propose substitutingrelation For-Rent frc~ this plan in place ofrelation For-Sale in" the speaker's utterance.On the other hand, if the precedingdialogue indicates that the speakerrepresents a real estate investment trustinterested in expanding its holdings, an204expansion of the context model representingthe speaker's inferred plan will contain thepossible actionPurchase( SPEAE~B, apartment-building)where apartment-buildlng ls a member ofentity set APARTmeNT-BUILDING.
Purchasing anapartment bu i ld ing  necessitates that thebtt l ld ing  be for  sa le  or that  one convince theowner to se l l  I t .
Thus one expans ion  of th i sPurchase p lan inc ludes  the precond i t ionFor-Sale(apartment-bullding)The substitution rules propose substitutingentity set APABT~NT-BUILDING from thls planfor the entity set APABT~NT in the speaker'sutterance.\[2\] Function Substitution"What is the average rank of CS faculty?
"The function AVEBAGE cannot be app l iedto non-numerlc elements such as "professor".The speaker's utterance contains the errone-ous propositionAVERAGE( rank, fn- value)such that Department-Of(faculty,CS)and Bank( faculty, rank)I f  the preced ing  d ia logue  ind icates  that  thespeaker  i s  eva luat ing  the C~ department ,  thenan expansion of the context model represent-lng the speaker's lnferred plan wlll containthe possible actionEvaluate-Faculty( SPEAKER, CS)The plan for  Evaluate-Faculty contains theactionEva luate(  SPEAKER, ave-rank)such that  ORDERED-AVE( rank,  ave-rank)and Department-Of( faculty, CS)and Bank( facu l ty ,  rank)If a domain D of non-numeric elements has anexplicit ordering, then we can associate wltheach of the n dome.ln elements an lndex numberbetween 0 and n-1 speclfylng its poaltlon inthe sorted domain.
The function ORDERED-AVEappearing In the speaker's plan operates uponnon-numeric elements of such domains by cal-culating the average of the index numbersassociated wlth each element instead ofattempting to  ca lcu la te  the  average of thee lements  themse lves .
The subst i tu t ion  ru lespropose substituting the function ORDERED-AVEfrom the  speaker's i n fe r red  plan fo r  thefunction AVERAGE in the speaker's utterance.ORDERED-AVE and AVERAGE are semanticallysimilar functions so the difference measurefor the resultant revised query will beemall.\[3\] Expanded Relational Path"when does Mltchel  meet?
"A university model does not contain arelation mET between FACULTY and TI~S.H~ever, faculty teach courses, present sem-inars, chair ooamlttees, etc., and courses,seminars, and committees meet at scheduledt imes.
The speaker ' s  u t te rance  conta lns  theer roneous  propos i t ionMeet- Tlme( Dr. Mt tche l ,  t ime)If the preceding dialogue indicates thatthe speaker is considering taking CSI05, thenan expansion of the context model represent-ing the speaker's inferred plan will containthe actionEarn-Credi t- In-Sectl on( SPEAKER, section)such that Is-Sectlon-Of(section, CS105)Expansion of the plan for Earn-Credlt-ln-Section contains the actionLearn-From- Teacher-  In-C1 ass (  SPE AKEB,sec t ion ,  facu l ty )such that  Teach( facu l ty ,  sec t ion)and the  p lan fo r  th l s  ac t ion  conta ins  theac t ionAt tend-Cl ass( SPEAKER, place, time)such that Meet-Plave(sectlon, place)and Meet- Time( section, time)The two re la t ions  Teach(Dr .~f l tche l , sec t ton)and Meet-Time( sect ion ,  t ime) appear  on the?
same path in  the  context  model.
There forethe  path expans ion  heur i s t i cs  suggest  theexpanded relational pathTeach( Dr. Mi tchel, section) "Meet-Time( ae ctlon, time)as a substitution for the relationMeet- Time( Dr. Mi tchel, time)in the user's utterance.
Only one arc Isadded to produce the expanded re la t iona l  pathand it contains the user-specifled relationMeet-Time, so the difference measure for thisrevlsed query l s  small.VI BELATED WORKErlk Mays\[1980\] discusses the recognition ofpragmat ic  overshoot  and proposes  a response  con-talnlng a llst of those entity sets that arerelated by the user-speclfied relation and a llstof those relations that connect the user-speclfledentity sets.
Houever he does not use a model ofwhether these pos~ibllltles are applicable to theuser's underlying task.
In a large database, suchresponses will be too lengthy and include too manyirrelevant alternatives.205Kapl an\[ 1 979\ ] ,  Chang\[ 1 97 8\] , and Sowa\[ 1 976\]have investigated the problem of missing Joinsbetween entity sets.
Kaplan proposes using theshortest relational path connecting the entitysets; Chang proposes an algorithm based on minimalspanning trees, using an a priori weighting of thearcs; $owa uses a conceptual graph (semantic net)for constructing the expanded relation.
None ofthese present a model of whether the proposed pathis relevant to the speaker's intentions.VII LIMITATIONS ~ND FUTURE WORKPragmatic overshoot processing has beenimplemented for a domain consisting of a subset ofthe courses, requirements, and policies for stu-dents at a University.
Our system ass,s, es thatthe relations comprising a meaningful and relevantpath expansion will appear on a single path withinthe context tree representing the speaker'sinferred plan.
This restricts such expansions tothose communicated via the speaker's underlyinginferred task-related plan.
However this plan mayfall to capture some associations, such as betweena person's Social Security Number and his name.This problem of producing precisely the set ofpath expansions that are meaningful and relevantmust be investigated further.
Other areas forfuture work include:\[I\] Extensions to handle relationships among morethan two entity sets\[2\] Extensions to the other classes of pragmaticovershoot mentioned in the introduction.\[3\] Extensions to detect and respond to querieswhich exceed the knowledge represented in theunderlying world model.
We are currentlyassuming that the system can provide thei r2ormation needed by the speaker.VIII CONCLUSIONSThe main contribution of our work is acontext-based strategy for constructing a coopera-tive but limited response to pragmatically ill-formed queries.
This response satisfies thespeaker's perceived needs, inferred both from thepreceding dialogue and the ill-formed utterance.Our hypothesis is that the speaker's inferredtask-related plan, represented by the contextmodel, suggests a substitution for the propositioncausing the pragmatic overshoot and that suchsuggestions then must be evaluated on the basis ofrelevance and semantic criteria.ACKNOWLEDGMENTSI would like to thank Ralph Weischedel forhis encouragement and direction iD this researchand for his suggestions on the style and contentof this paper  and Lance Ramshaw for many helpfuldiscussions.REFEREI~CES1.2.3.4.5.6.7.8.9.10.11.12.Carberry, S., "Tracking User Goals in anInformation-Seeking Environment", Proc.
R~~.
on Artificial Intelli~ence, Washing-ton, D.C., 1983Chang, ~ L., "Finding Missing Joins forIncomplete Queries in Relational Data Bases"IBM Res.
Lab., RJ2145, San Jose, Ca., 1978Fikes, R. E. and N. J. Nilsson, "STRIPS: ANew Approach to the Application of TheoremProving to Problem Solving", ArtificialI g / _ ~ 2 ,  1971Kaplan, S. J. , "Cooperative Responses from aPortable Natural Language Data Base QuerySystem", Ph.D.
Dlsa., Univ.
of Pennsyl-vanla,1979Mays,L , "Failures in Natural Language QuerySystems: Applications to Data Base Query Sys-tems", Proc.
Nat.
Conf.
on ArtificialI n t ~ ,  Stanford, 1980Quine, W. V., "Ontologlcal Relativity" inOntological ~@lativltv and Qther ~ ,Columbia University Press, New York 1969Ramshaw, L. A. end N. ~ Weischedel, "ProblemLocalization Strategies for Pragmatic Pro-cessing in Natural Language Front Ends",Proe.
of 9~ Int.
Conf.
on ComDutatlonal~ ,  1 984Sondbeimer, N. K. and R. ~ Welschedel, "ARule-Based Approach to Ill-Formed Input",Proo.
8th ~Jl~.
Conf.
on ~gmDutatlonal~ g ,  1980Sowa, J. F., "Conceptual Graphs for a DataBase Interface", IBM Journal of Research andD .
~ ,  July 1 976Thompson, B. H., "Linguistic Analysis ofNatural Language Communication with Comput-ers", Proc.
8th Int.
Conf.
on Comouta-tlonal Lin~ulstics, 1980Webber, B. L. and E. Mays, "Varieties of UserMisconceptions: Detection and Correction",Proc.
~ Int.
Joint Conf.
on Artificial~tel l i~ence, Karlsruhe, West Germany, AugustI 983Weischedel, R. ~L and N. K. Sondheimer,"Meta-Rules as a Basis for Processing lll-Formed Input", (to appear in ~ Journalof ~ Linguistics, Vol.
9, #3,I 983)206
