DEALING WITH CONJUNCTIONSIN A MACHINE TRANSLATION ENVIRONMENTXiumlng HUANGInstitute of LinguisticsChinese Academy of Social SciencesBeiJing, China*ABSTRACTThe paper presents an a lgor i thm, wr i t ten  inPROLOG, for process ing Engl ish sentences whichcontain either Gapping, Right Node Rais ing (RNR)or Reduced Conjunct ion (RC).
The DCG (DefiniteClause Grammar) formalism (Pereira & Warren 80) isadopted.
The algorithm is h ighly ef f ic ient  andcapable of process ing a full range of coord inateconstructions containing any number of coordinatecon junct ions  ('and', 'or', and 'but').
Thealgorithm is part of an English-Chinese machinet rans lat ion system which is in the course ofconstruction.0 INTRODUCTIONTheoret i ca l  l ingu is ts  have  made acons iderab le  invest igat ion  into  coord inateconstruct ions (Ross 67a, Hankamer  73, Schachter77, Sag 77, Gazdar 81 and Sobin 82, to name afew), giving descr ipt ions of the phenomena fromvarious perspectives.
Some of the descriptions ares t imu la t ing  or conv inc ing .
Computat iona ll inguists, on the other hand, have achieved lessthan their theoretical counterparts.
(Woods 73)'s SYSCONJ, to my knowledge, is thefirst and the most often referenced fac i l i tydesigned specifically for coordinate constructionprocessing.
It can get the correct analysis  forRC sentences like(i) J ohn  drove  his car th rough andcompletely demolished a plate glass windowbut only after trying and fai l ing an indef in i tenumber  of t imes ,  due to its h igh ly  non-deterministic nature.
(Church 79) claims '~ome impressive initialprogress" process ing conjunct ions with his NLparser YAP.
Using a Marcus-type attention shiftmechan ism,  YAP can parse  many con junct ionconstruct ions including some cases of Gapping.It doesn' t  o f fe r  a complete  so lu t ion  tocon junct ion  process ing  though:  the Gapp ingsentences YAP deals with are only those wlth twoNP remnants in a Gapped conjunct.
* Mai l ing address: Cognit ive Studies Centre,University of Essex,Colchester C04 3SQ, England.
(McCord 80) proposes a "more straightforwardand more contro l lable"  way of pars ing sentenceslike (I) w i th in  a Slot Grammar  f ramework.
Hetreats "drove his car through and complete lydemolished" as a conjoined VP, which doesn't seemquite valid.
(Boguraev 83) suggests that when "and" isencountered ,  a new ATN arc be dynamlca l lyconstructed which seeks to recognise a right handconstituent categorlally similar to the left handone just completed or being currently processed.The problem is that the left-hand conjunct may notbe the current or most recent constituent hut theconstituent of which that former one is a part.
(Berwlck  83) parses  successfu l ly  Gappedsentences like(2) Max gave Sally a nickel yesterday, and adime todayus ing  an extended Marcus - type  determin is t i cparser.
It is not clear, though, how his parserwould treat RC sentences llke (I) where the f i~tconjunct is not a complete clause.The present work attacks the coordinateconstruction problem along the lines of DCG.
Itscoverage is wider than the existing systems: bothGapping, RNR and RC, as wel l  as ord inary  cases ofcoord inate  sentences ,  a re  taken  in toconsideration.
The work is a major development of(Huang 83)'s CASSEX package, which in turn wasbased on (Boguraev 79)'s work, a system forresolv ing l ingu is t ic  ambiguit ies  which combinedATN grammars (Woods 73) and Preference Semantics(Wi lks 75).In the first section of the paper, problemsraised for Natural Language Processing by Gapping,RNR and RC are invest igated.
Sect ion 2 gives agrouping of sentences conta in ing  coord inateconjunctions.
Finally, the algorithm is describedin Sect ion 3.I GAPPING, RIGHT NODE RAISING ANDREDUCED CONJUNCTIONI.I GappingGapping is the case where the verb or theverb together with some other e lements  in thenon-leftmost conjuncts is deleted from a sentence:(3) Bob saw Bill and Sue \[saw\] Mary.243(4) Max wants to try to begin to wr i te  anovel, and Alex \[wants to try to begin to write\] aplay.Linguists have described rules for generatingGapping, though none of them has made any effortto formulate  a rule for detect ing Gapping.
(Ross67b) is the first who suggested a rule forGapping.
The fo rmal i sa t ion  of the rule is due to(Hankamer 73):Gap pl ngNP X A Z and NP X B Z --> NP X A Z and NP Bwhere  A and  B are  non ident ica l  ma jorconstituents*.
(Sag 76) pointed out that there were caseswhere the left per ipheral  in the right conjunctmight be a non-NP, as in(5) At our house, we play poker, and atBetsy's house, bridge.It should be noted that the two NPs in theGapping rule must not be the same, o therwise  (7)would be derived from (6):(6) Bob saw Bill and Bob saw Mary.
(7) Bob saw Bill and Bob Mary.whereas people actually say(8) Bob saw Bill and Mary.When processing (8), we treat it as a simplexcontaining a compound object ("Bill and Mary")funct ioning as a unit ("unit interpretation"),a l though as a rule we treat sentence conta in ingcon junct ion  as der ived  f rom a "complex" ,  asentence cons ist ing of more than one clause, inthis case "Bob saw Bi l l  and Bob saw Mary"("sentence coord inat ion interpretation").
Thereason for analys ing (8) as a s implex is first,fo r  the purpose  of t rans la t ion ,  un i tinterpretation is adequate (the ambiguity, if any,wi l l  be "transferred" to the target language);secondly, it is easier to process.Another  fact worth not ic ing is that in theabove Gapping rule, B in the second conjunct couldbe anything, but not empty.
E.g., the (a)s in thefollowing sentences are Gapping examples, but the(b)s are not:(9) (a) Max spoke f luently, and Alberthaltingly.
*(b) Max spoke fluently, and Albert.
(I0) (a) Max wrote a novel, and Alex aplay.
*(b) Max wrote a novel, and Alex.
(II) (a) Bob saw Bill, and Sue Mary.
(b) Bob saw Bill, and Sue.Before trying to draw a rule for detect ing* According to the dependency grammar we adopt, wedefine a major const i tuent of a given sentence Sas a constituent immediately dominated by the mainverb of S.Gapping, we will observe the difference between(12) and (13) on one hand, and (14) on the other:(12) Bob met Sue and Mar k in London.
(13) I knew the man w i th  the telescopeand the woman with the umbrella.
(14) Bob met Sue in Paris and Mary in London.As we stated above, (12) is not a case of Gapping;instead, we take "Sue and Mary" as a coord inateNP.
Nor is (13) a case of Gapping.
(14), however,cannot be treated as phrasal coordination becausethe PP in the left con junct  ("in Par is" )  isdirectly dominated by the main verb so that "Mary"is prevented from being conjoined to "Sue".Now, the Gapping Detecting Rule:The structure "NPI V A X and NP2 B" where theleft conjunct is a complete  clause, A and B aremajor  const i tuents ,  and X is e i ther  NIL  ora const i tuent  not dominated  by A, is a case ofGapping if (OR (AND (X = NIL) (B = NP))(AND (V = 3-valency verb)*(OR (B = NP) (B = to NP)))(AND (X /= NP) (X /= NIL)))**1.2 Right Node Raising (RNR)RNR is the case where the object in the non-rightmost conjunct is missing.
(15) John struck and kicked the boy.
(16) Bob looked at and Bill took the jar.RNR raises less serious problems than Gappingdoes.
All we need to do is to parse the rightconjunct  first, then copy the object over to theleft conjunct so that a representat ion for theleft clause can be constructed.
Then we combinethe two to get a representation for the sentence.Sentences  l lke the fo l low ing  may raisedifficulty for parsing:(17) I ate and you drank everything theybrought.
(cf.
Church 79)(17) can be analysed either as a complex  of twofull clauses, or RNR, according to whether  wetreat '~te" as transitive or intransitive.1.3 Reduced ConjunctionReduced Conjunct ion is the case where theconjoined surface str ings are not we l l - fo rmedconstituents as in(18) John drove his car through and completelydemolished a plate glass window.where the conjoined surface strings "drove his carthrough" and "completely demolished" are not well-formed constituents.
The problem will not be as* 3-valency verbs are those which can appear  inthe s t ruc ture  "NP V NP NP', such as "give',"name', "select', 'call', etc.
** Here "/=" means "is not".244ser ious as might  have seemed, given ourunderstanding of Gapping and RNR.
After weprocess the left conjunct, we know that anobject is still needed (assuming that "through" isa preposi t ion) .
Then we parse the rightconjunct, copying over the subject from the left;f inal ly,  we copy the object from the r ightconjunct to the left to complete the left clause.II GROUPING OF SENTENCES CONTAINING CONJUNCTIONSWe can sort sentences containing conjunctionsinto three major groups on the basis of the natureof the left-most conjunct: Group A containssentences whose left-most conjuncts are recognizedby the analyser as complete clauses; Group B, theleft-most conjuncts are not complete clauses, butcontain verbs; and Group C, all the other cases.The following is a detailed grouping with examplesentences:AI.
(Gapping) Clause-lnternal ellipsis:(19) I played football and John tennis.
(20) Bob met Sue in Paris and John Mary inLondon.
(21) Max spoke f luent ly  and Alberthaltingly.A2.
(Capping) Left-peripheral ellipsis wlth twoNP remnants:(22) Max gave a nickel to Sally and a dimeto Harvey.
(23) Max gave Sally a nickel and Harvey adime.
(24) Jack calls Joe Mike and Sam Harry.A3.
(Gapping)Left-perlpheral ellipsis with one NPremnant and some non-NP remnant(s):(25) Bob met Sue in Paris and Mary InLondon.
(26) John played football yesterday andtennis today.A4.
(Gapp ing)  R ight -per lphera l  e l l ips isconcomitant with clause-internal elllpsls:(27) Jack begged Elsie to get married andWilfred Phoebe.
(2~) John persuaded Dr. Thomas to examineMary, and Bill Dr.
Jones.
(29) Betsy talked to Bill on Sunday, andAlan to Sandy.A5.
The right conjunct is a complete clause:(30) I played football and John watched thetelevision.A6.
The right conjunct is a verb phrase to betreated as a clause with the subject deleted:(31) The man kicked the child and threw theball.AT.
Sentences where the "unit interpretation"should be taken:(32) Bob met Sue and Mary in London.
(33) I knew the glrl bitten by the dog andthe cat.BI.
Right Node Raising:(34) The man kicked and threw the ball.
(35) The man kicked and the woman threw theba I 1.B2.
Reduced Conjunction:(36) John drove hls car through andcompletely demolished a plate glasswindow.C.
Unlt interpretations:(37) The man with the telescope and the womanwith the umbrella kicked the ball.
(38) Slowly and stealthily, he crept towardshis victim.III THE ALGORITHMThe following algorithm, implemented inPROLOG Version 3.3 (shown here in much abridgedform), produces correct syntact l co -semant icrepresentations for all the sentences given inSection 2.
We show here some of the essentialc lauses*  of the a lgor i thm:  "sentence ' ,"rest sentencel" and "sentence conjunction'.
Thetop -most  c lause "sentence" parses sentencesconsisting of one or more conjuncts.
In the bodyof "sentence', we have as sub-goa ls  thedisjunction of "noun_phrase" and 'noun phrasel',for getting the sentence subject; the disjunctionof "\[W\], Is verb" and 'verbl', plus 'rest verb',for t reat ing the verb of the sentence;  thed i s junct ion  of 'rest sentence" and "restsentence1" for handling The object, preposltlonaTphrases, etc; and finally "sentence conJunctlon',for handling coordinate conjunctlon~The Gapping, RNR and RC sentences In SectionII contain deletions from either left or rightconjuncts or both.
Deleted subjects in rightconjuncts are handled by 'noun phrasel' in ourprogram; deleted verbs in right conjuncts by'verbl'.
The most difficult deletions to handle(for previous systems) are those from the leftconjuncts, ie.
the deleted objects of RNR (GroupBI) and the deleted preposition objects of RC(Group B2), because when the left conJuncts arebeing parsed, the deleted parts are not avallabl~This is dealt with neatly in PROLOG DCG by usinglogical variables which stand for the deletedparts, are "holes" In the structures built, andget filled later by unif ication as the parsingproceeds.sentence(Stn, P Sub j, P Subj Head Noun, P Verb,P V Type ,  P Contentverb ,  P Tense ,P~Ob-j, PObJH~dNoun) - ->% P means "possible": P arguments only% ~ve values if "sentenCe' is called by% 'sentence_conjunctlon' to parsea second% (right) conjunct.
Those values will be% carried over from the left conjunct.
(noun phrase(Sub J, HeadNoun);noun phrasel  (P Sub J, P SubJ Head Noun, Sub J,HeadNoun) ),% "noun_phrasel" copies over the subject% from the left conjunct.adve rblal_phrase (Adv),(\[w\],% W is the next lexlcal item.is_verb(W, Verb, Tense) ;% Is W a verb?verbl(P_Verb, Verb, PContentverb, Contentverb,P Tense, Tense, P_VType, VType)),"verb1" copies over the verb from the% left conjunct.
* A "clause" in our DCG comprises a head (a singlegoal) and a body (a sequence of zero or moregoal s ).245rest verb(Verb ,Tense,Verbl,Tensel),'rest verb" checks whether Verb is an% auxi~ary.
(rest sentence(dcl,Subj,Head Noun,Verbl, VType,Co~tentverb,Tensel ,Obj, O~j_.Head_Noun, P__ObJ,P Obj Head Noun, Indobj, S);% "rest sentence" handles all cases but RC.rest sentence I (d cl, SubJ, HeadNoun, Verb I, VType,C~ntentverb,Tensel, Obj, Ob j_Head_Noun,P ObJ, P_.Obj_.Head._Noun, Indobj, S)),"rest sentencel" handles RC.sentence_.co~junctlon(S, Stn, Sub j, HeadNoun,Verbl, V_Type, Contentverb, Tensel, Obj,Ob jHeadNoun ) ?rest sentence I (Type, Sub j, Head_Noun, Verbl, VType,~ontentver5, Tense, Prep ObJ,Prep Ob JHeadNoun, P_Obj, P ObJ Head Noun, Indobj,s(type(Type), tense(Tense), v(Verb sense,agent(Subj) ,  object(Obj) ,  pos t--ve rb_mods(prep(Prep), pre~obj(Prep_Obj)))Y -->% Here Prep ObJ is a logical variable which%wil l  be Instantlated later when the% right conjunct has been parsed.
{verb type(Verb, VType)},comp~ement(V Type, Verb, Contentverb, Sub j,Head Noun, Obj, Ob j_Head Noun, P Obj,P_Ob~_Head_Noun, v(Verb sense, agent(~ubj),object(Oh j), post_v~rb_mods(prep(W),pr ep_obJ ( Pr ep_.Obj ) ) ),% The sentence object is processed and the% verb structure built here.\[w\],{prepositlon(W) }.sentence_.conjunction(S,s(conj(W), S, Sconj), Sub j,Head Noun, Verbl, VType, Verb2, Tense, Obj,Obj ~ead Noun) -->(\[" \].
\[wT; \[w\]),{conj(W)},% Checks whether W is a conjunction.sentence(Sconj, Subj, Head Noun, Verbl, V_Type,Verb2, Tense, 0bj, 0bjHe~dNoun).% "sentence" is called recursively to parse% right conjuncts.sentence conjunction(S, S, _, _, _, _, _, _, _, _)--> \]\].
% Boundary condition.For sentence (36) ("John drove his carthrough and completely demolished a plate glasswindow"), for instance, when parsing the leftconjunct, "rest sentencel" will be called event-ually.
The follo~ing verb structure will be built:v(drovel ,agent(np(pronoun(John))), object(np(det(his), pre mod(\[\]), n(carl), post mods(\[\]))), postverbmods~prep mods ( prep ( through~, pre~obJ (P repObj)), where th\[ logical variable PrepObJ will beunified later with the argument standing for theobject in the right conjunct (ie, "a plate glasswindow").
When 'sentence" is called via the sub-goal 'sentence_conjunctlon" to process the rightconjunct, the deleted subject "John" will becopied over via "noun phrasel'.
F inal ly astructure is built which i-s a combination of twocomplete clauses.
During the processing littleeffort is wasted.
The backward deleted consti-tuents ("a plate glass window" here) are recoveredby using logical variables; the forward deletedones ("John" here) by passing over values (viaunification) from the conjunct already processed.Moreover, the "try-and-fail" procedure is carriedout in a controlled and intelligent way.
Thus ahigh efficiency lacking in many other systems isachieved (space prevents us from providing adetailed discussion of this issue here).ACKNOWLEDGEME NTSI would llke to thank Y. Wilks, D. Arnold,D.
Fass and C. Grover for their comments andinstructive discussions.
Any errors are mine.BIBLIOGRAPHYBerwlck, ~ C. (1983) "A deterministic parser withbroad  coverage . "
Bundy ,  A.
(ed),Proceedings of IJCAI 83, William Kaufman, Inc.Boguraev, B. K. (1979) Automatic Resolution ofLinguistic Ambiguities.
Technical Report No.
II,University of Cambridge Computer Laboratory,Cambridge.Boguraev, B. K. (1983) "Recognlslng conjunctionswithing the ATN framework."
Sparck-Jones, ~ andWilks, Y.
(eds), Automatic Natural LanguageParsing, Ellis Horwood.Church, K. W. (1980) On Memory Limitations inNatura l  Language Process ing .
MIT.Reproduced by Indiana Univ.
Ling.
Club,Bloomingtong, 1982.Gazdar, G. (1981) "Unbounded dependencies andcoordinate structure," Linguistic Enquiry, 12:155 - 184.Hankamer, J.
(1973) "Unacceptable ambiguity,"Lingulstic Inquiry, 4: 17-68.Huang, X-M. (1983)"Dealing with conjunctions in amachine translation environment," Proceedingsof the Association for Computational LinguisticsEuropean Chapter Meeting, Pisa.McCord, M. C. (1980) "Slot grammars," AmericanJournal of Computational Linguistics, 6:1,31-43.Perelra, F. & Warren, D. (1980)"Definite clausegrammars for language analysis - a survey of theformalism and a comparison with augmentedtransition networks," Artificial Intelllgence,13:231 - 278.Ross, J. R. (1967a) Constraints on Variables inSyntax.
Doctoral Dissertation, MIT,Cambridge,Massachusetts.
Reproduced by Indiana Univ.
Ling.Club, Bloomington, 1968.Ross, J. R. (1967b) "Gapping and the order ofconstituents," Indiana Univ.
Ling.
Club,Bloomington.
Also in Bierwisch, M. and K.Heidolph, (eds), Recent Developments i__nnLinguistics, Mouton, The Hague, 1971.Sag, I.
A.
(1976) Deletion and Logical Form.
Ph.D.thesis, MIT, Cambridge, Mass.Schachter ,  P. (1977)  "Const ra in ts  oncoordination," Language, 53:86 - 103.Sobin, N. (1982) "On gapping and discontinuousconstituent structure," Linguistics,20:727-745.Wilks, Y.
A.
(1975) "Preference Semantics," Keenan(ed), Formal Semantics of Natural Language,Cambridge Univ.
Press, London.Woods, W. ~ (1973)"A experimental parsing systemfor Transition Network Grammar," Rustin,(ed), Natural Language Processing, AlgorithmicPress, N. Y.246
