Discourse Structu res for Text GenerationWill iam C. MannUSC/Intorrnation Sciences Institute4676 Admira l ty  WayMarina del Rey, CA 90292-6695A bst ractText generation programs need to be designed around atheory of text organization.
This paper introduces RhetoricalStructure Theory, a theory of text structure in which each regionof text has a central nuclear part and a number of satellitesrelated to it.
A natural text is analyzed as an example, themechanisms of the theory are identified, and their formalization isdiscussed.
In a comparison, Rhetorical Structure Theory is foundto be more comprehensive and more informative about textfunction than the text organization parts of previous textgeneration systems.1, The Text Organization ProblemText generation is already established as a research areawithin computational linguistics.
Although so far there have beenonly a few research computer programs that can generate text in atechnically interesting way, text generation is recognized ashaving problems and accomplishments that are distinct fromthose of the rest of computational inguistics.
Text generationinvolves creation of multisentential text without any direct use ofpeople's linguistic skills; it is not computer-aided text creation.Text planning is a major activity within text generation, onethat strongly influences the effectiveness of generated text.Among the things that have been taken to be part of text planning,this paper focuses on just one: text oreanization.
Peoplecommonly recognize that well.written text is organized, and that itsucceeds partly by exhibiting its organization to the reader.Computer generated text must be organized.
To createThis research was supported by the Air Force Office of ScientificResearch contract No.
F49620-79-C-0181.
The views andconclusions contained in this document are those of the authorand should not be interpreted as necessarily representing theofficial policies or endorsements, either expressed or implied, ofthe Air Force Office of Scientific Research of the U.S.Government.text generators, we must first have a suitable theory of textorganization.
In order to be most useful in computationallinguistics, we want a theory of text organization to have theseattributes:1. comprehens iveness:  applicable to every kind oftext;2. functionality: informative in terms of how textachieves its effects for the writer;3. scale insensit iv i ty:  applicable to every size of text,and capable of describing all of the various sized unitsof text organization that occur;4. def in i teness:  susceptible to formalization andprogramming;5. generat iv i ty :  capable of use in text construction aswell as text description.Unfortunately, no such theory exists.
Our approach to creatingsuch a theory is described below, and then compared withprevious work on text generation in Section 3.2.
Rhetorical Structure TheoryCreating a comprehensive theory of text organization isnecessarily a very complex effort.
In order to limit the immediatecomplexity of the task we have concentrated first on creating adescriotiv~ theory, one which fits naturally occurring text.
In thefuture the descriptive theory will be augmented in order to create aconstructive theory, one which can be implemented for textgeneration.
The term Rhetorical Structure Theory (RST) refers tothe combination of the descriptive and constructive parts.An organized text is one which is composed of discernibleparts, with the parts arranged in a particular way and connectedtogether to form a whole.
Therefore a theory of text organizationmust tell at least:1.
What kinds of parts are there?2.
How can parts be arranged?3.
How can parts be connected together to form a whole text?367In RST we specify all of these jointly, identifying the organizationalresources available to the writer.2.1.
Descr ip t ive  Rhetor ica l  S t ructure  Theory  1What are the organizational resources available to thewriter?.
Here we present the mechanisms and character ofrhetorical structure theory by showing how we have applied it to aparticular natural text.
As each new construct is introduced in theexample, its abstract content is described.Our illustrative text is shown in Figure 2.1.23 In the figure,we have divided the running text into numbered clause-like units.
4At the highest level, the text is a request addressed to CCCmembers to vote against making the nuclear freeze initiative (NFI)one of the issues about which CCC actively lobbies and promotesa position.
The structure of the text at this level consists of twoparts: the request (clause 13) and the material put forth to supportthe request (clauses 1 through 12),2.1.1.
The Request Schema --.
1-12;  13To represent the highest level of structure, we use theRequest schema shown in Figure 2-2.
The Request schema isone of about 25 schemas in the current version of RST.Each schema indicates how a particular unit of textstructure is decomposed into other units.
Such units are calledspans.
Spans are further differentiated into text spans andconceptual spans, text spans denoting the portion of explicittext being described, and conceptual spans denoting clusters ofpropositions concerning the subject matter (and sometimes theprocess of expressing it) being expressed by the text span.1The descriptive portion of rhetorical structure theory has been developed overthe pest two years by Sandra Thoml:~son and me, with major contributions byChristian Matthiassen and Barbara Fox.
They have also given helpful reactions toa previous draft of this paper.2Quoted (with permission) from The InsidQr, California Common Cause statenewsletter, 2.1, July 1982.3We expect the generation of this sort of text to eventually become veryimpo~Rant in Artificial Intelligence, because systems will have to establish theacceptability of their conclusions on heuristic grounds.
AI systems will have toestablish their credibility by arguing for it in English.4Although we have not used technically-defined clauses as units, the characterof the theory is not affected.
The decision concerning what will be the finast-grainunit of description is rather arbitrary; here it is set by a preliminary syntax.orientedmanuel process which identifies low-level, relatively independent units to use inthe discourse analysis.
One reason for picking such units is that we intend to builda text generator in which most smaller units are organized by a programmedgrammar \[Mann & Matthieasen 3.\].1.
I don't believe that endorsing the Nuclear FreezeInitiative is the right step for California CC.2.
Tempting as it may be,3.
we shouldn't embrace every popular issue that comesalong.4.
When we do sowe use precious, limited resources where otherplayers with superior resources are already doing anadequate job.6.
Rather, I think we will be stronger and more effective7.
if we stick to those issues of governmental structureand process, broadly defined, that have formed thecore of our agenda for years.8.
Open government, campaign finance reform, andfighting the influence of special interests and bigmoney, these are our kinds of issues.9.
(New paragraph) Let's be clear:10.
I personally favor the initiative and ardently supportdisarmament negotiations to reduce the risk of war.11.
But I don't  think endorsing a specific nuclear freezeproposal is appropriate fol: CCC.12.
We should limit our  involvement in defense andweaponry to matters of process, such as exposing theweapons industry's influence on the political process.13.
Therefore, I urge you to vote against a CCCendorsement of the nuclear freeze initiative.
(signed) M ichae l  As imow,  Ca l i fo rn ia  Common CauseV ice -Cha i r  and UCLA Law Pro fessorF igure  2.1 : A text which urges an actionEach schema diagram has a vertical line indicating thatone particular part is nuclear.
The nuclear part is the one whosefunction most nearly represents the function of the text spananalyzed in the structure by using the schema.
In the example,clause 13 ("Therefore, I urge you to vote against a CCCendorsement of the nuclear freeze initiative.")
is nuclear.
It is arequest.
If it could plausibly have been successful by itself,something like clause 13 (without "Therefore")  might have beenused instead of the entire text.
However, in this case, the writerdid not expect that much to be enough, so some additionalsupport was added.368Request~/~~e~ablementEvidenceFigure 2-2: The Request and Evidence schemasThe support, clauses 1 through 12, plays a satellite role inthis application of the Request schema.
Here, as in most cases,satellite text is used to make it more likely that the nuclear text willsucceed.
In this example, the writer is arguing that the requestedaction is right for the organization.In Figure 2-2 the nucleus is connected to each satellite bya relation.
In the text clause 13 is related to clauses 1 through 12by a motivation relation.
Clauses 1 through 12 are being used tomotivate the reader to perform the action put forth in clause 13.The relations relate the conceptual span of a nucleus withthe conceptual span of a satellite.
Since, in s text structure, eachconceptual span corresponds to a text span, the relations may bemore loosely spoken of as relating text spans as well.The ReQuest schema also contains an eneblementrelation.
Text in an "enablement" relation to the nucleus conveysinformation (such as a password or telephone number) that makesthe reader able to perform the requested action.
In this examplethe option is not taken of having a satellite related to the nucleusby an "enablement" relation.One or more schemas may be instsntiated in a text.
Thepattern of instantiation of schemas in a text is called a textstructure.
So, for our example text, one part of its text structuresays that the text span of the whole text corresponds to aninstance of the Request schema, and that in that instance clause13 is the text span corresponding to the schema nucleus andclauses 1 through 12 are the text span corresponding to a satelliterelated to the nucleus by a "motivation" relation.In any instance of a schema in a text structure, the nucleusmust be present, but all satellites are optional.
We s do notinstantiate a schema unless it shows some decomposition of itstext span, so at least one of the satellites must be present.
Any ofthe relations of a schema may be instantiated indefinitely manytimes, producing indefinitely many satellites.5Here and below, the knowledgeable p rson using RST to describe atext.The schemas do not restrict the order of textual elements.There is a usual order, the one which is most frequent when theschema is used to describe a large text span; schemas are drawnwith this order in the figures describing them apart from theirinstantiation in text structure.
However, any order is allowed.2.1.2.
The Evidence Schema ... 1; 2-8; 9-12At the second level of decomposition each of the two textspans of the first level must be accounted for.
The final text span,clause 13, is a single unit.
For more detailed description a suitablegrammar (and other companion theories) could be employed atthis point.The initial span, clauses 1 through 12, consists of threeparts: an assertion of a particular claim, clause 1, and twoarguments supporting that claim, clauses 2 through 8 and 9through 12.
The claim says that it would not be right for CCC toendorse the nuclear freeze initiative (NFI).
The first argument isabout how to allocate CCC's resources, and the second argumentis about the categories of issues that CCC is best able to address.To represent his argument structure we use the Evidenceschema, shown in Figure 2-2.
Conceptual spans in an evidencerelation stand as evidence that the conceptual span of the nucleusis correct.Note that the Evidence schema could not have beeninstantiated in place of the Request schema as the mostcomprehensive structure of the text, because clause 13 urges anaction rather than supporting credibility.
The "motivation"relation and the "evidence" relation restrict the nucleus indifferent ways, and thus provide application conditions on theschemas.
The relations are perhaps the most restrictive source ofconditions on how the schemas may apply.
In addition, there areother application conventions for the schema, described inSection 2.2.3.The top two levels of structure of the text, the portionanalyzed so far, are shown in Figure 2-3.
The entire structure isshown in Figure 2-5.369RcqunlEv~enct1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 tt 12 13Figu re 2-3: The upper structure of the CCC textAt each level of structure it is possible to trace down thechain of nuclei to find a single clause which is representative ofthe entire level.
Thus the representative of the whole text is clause13 (about voting), the representative of the first argument is clause6 (about being stronger and more effective), and therepresentative of the second argument is clause 12 (about limitinginvolvement to process issues).2.1.3.
The Thes is /Ant i thes is  Schema --- 2-5 ;  6 -8The first argument is organized contrastively, in terms ofone collection of ideas which the writer does not identify with, anda second collection of ideas which the writer does identify with.The first collection involves choosing issues on the basis of theirpopularity, a method which the writer opposes.
The secondcollection concerns choosing issues of the kinds which have beensuccessfully approached in the past, a method which the writersupports.To account for this pattern we use the Thesis /Ant i thesisschema shown in Figure 2.4.
The ideas the writer is rejecting,clauses 2 through 5, are connected to the nucleus (clauses 6through 8) by a Thes is /Ant i thes is  relation, which requires thatthe respective sections be in contrast and that the writer identifyor not identify with them appropriately.Notice that in our instantiations of the Evidence schemaand the Thesis/Antithesis schema, the roles of the nuclei relativeto the satellites are similar: Under favorable conditions, thesatellites would not be needed, but under the conditions as theauthor conceives them, the satellites increase the likelihood thatthe nucleus will succeed.
The assertion of clause 1 is more likelyto succeed because the evidence is present; the antithesis idea ismade clearer and more appealing by rejecting the competingthesis idea.
The Evidence schema is different from theThesis/Antithesis schema because evidence and theses providedifferent kinds of support for assertions.2.1.4.
The Evidence Schema --- 2-3; 4-5 6In RST, schemes are recursive.
So, the Evidence schemacan be instantiated to account for a text span identified by anyschema, including the Evidence schema itself.
This text illustratesthis recursive character only twice, but mutual inclusion ofschemas is actually used very frequently in general.
It is therecursiveness of schemas which makes RST applicable at a widerange of scales, and which also allows it to describe structuralunits at a full range of sizes within a text.
7Clauses 2 and 3 make a statement about popular causes(centrally, that "we shouldn't embrace every popular issue thatcomes along").
Clauses 4 and 5 provide evidence that weshouldn't embrace them, in the form of an argument abouteffective use of resources.The Evidence schema shown in Figure 2.2 has thus beenused again, this time with only one satellite.2.1.5.
The Concessive Schema --- 2; 3Clause 2 suggests that embracing every popular issue istempting (and thus both attractive and defective).
Theattractiveness of the move is acknowledged in the notion of apopular issue.
Clause 3 identifies the defect: resources are usedbadly.The corresponding schema is the Concessive schema,shown in Figure 2-4.
The concession relation relates theconceded conceptual span to the conceptual span which thewriter is emphasizing.
The "concession" relation differs from the"thesis/antithesis" relation in acknowledging the conceptual6Except for single-clause text spans, the structure of the text is presenteddepth-first, left to right, and shown in Figuro 2-5.7This contrasts with some approaches to text structure which do not providestructure between the whole-text level and the clause level.
Stodes,problem-solution texts, advertisements, and interactive discourse have beenanalyzed inthat way,370Thes Ls /A  nlithesis Concessiveinformb.7,ouJustify ConditionalFigure 2-4:  Five other schemasI I I I  I I I I I I I I i i i i i  I I I I I l l l l l l l l l l l l  I I l l l l l l l l l  i i i I l lR~ef f~bl l l1 TheSu/AnrltheJiJCo~m~ Cmm',m~,m/.... 7,.-" ~ ,o7---~ IInfo~Co~d,m~l2 3 4 5 6 ?Justly.ImD~at~ C(WCeUI~77Wu/Amlalb~J10|~ l | l / In t  I | ~  /11 123 4 S 6 ?
gVg 10 11 12Figu re 2.5:  The full rhetorical structure of the CCC text'7371span of the satellite.
The strategy for using a concessive is toacknowledge some potential detraction or refutation of the pointto be made, By accepting it, it is seen as not contradictory withother beliefs held in the same context, and thus not a realrefutation for the main point.Concessive structures are abundant in text that arguespoints which the writer sees as unpopular or in conflict with theaudience's strongly held beliefs.
In this text (which has twoConcessive structures), we can infer that the writer believes thathis audience strongly supports the NFI.2.1.6.
The Conditional Schema --- 4; 5Clauses 4 and 5 present a consequence of embracing"every popular issue that comes along."
Clause 4 ("when we doso") presents a condition, and clause 5 a result (use of resources)that occurs specifically under that condition.
TO express this, weuse the Conditional schema shown in Figure 2-4.
The conditionis related to the nuclear part by a condition relation, whichcarries the appropriate application restrictions to maintain theconditionality of the schema.2.1.7.
The Inform Schema --- 6-7; 8The central assertion of the first argument, in clauses 6through 8, is that CCC can be stronger and more effective underthe condition that it sticks to certain kinds of issues (implicitlyexcluding NFI).
This assertion is then elaborated by exemplifyingthe kinds of issues meant.This presentation is described by applying the Informschema shown in Figure 2-4.
The central assertion is nuclear, andthe detailed identification of kinds of issues is related to it by anelaboration relation.
The option of having a span in theinstantiation of the Inform schema related to the nucleus by abackground relation is not taken.This text is anomalous among expository texts in notmaking much use of the Inform schema.
8 It is widely used, in partbecause it carries the "elaboration" relation.
The "elaboration"relation is particularly versatile.
It supplements the nuclearstatement with various kinds of detail, including relationships of:1. sat:member2.
abstraction:instance3.
whole:part4.
process:step5.
object:attribute2.1.8.
The Conditional Schema --- 6; 7This second use of the Conditional schema is unusualprincipally because the condition (clause 7) is expressed after the.consequence (clause 6).
This may make the consequence moreprominent or make it seem less uncertain.2.1.9.
The Just i fySchema --- 9; 10-12The writer has argued his case to a conclusion, and nowwants to argue for this unpopular conclusion again.
To gainacceptance for this tactic, and perhaps to show that a secondargument is beginning, he says "Let's be clear."
This is aninstance of the Just i fy schema, shown in Figure 2-4.
Here thesatellite is attempting to make acceptable the act of exoressinq thenuclear conceptual span.2.1.10.
The Concessive Schema -.- 10; 1 1-12The writer again employs the concessive schema, this timeto show that favoring the NFI is consistent with voting againsthaving CCC endorse it.
In clause 10, the writer concedes that hepersonally favors the NFI.2.1.1 1.
The Thesis/Antithesis Schema -.- 1 1 ; 12The writer states his position by contrasting two actions:CCC endorsing the NFI, which he does not approve, and CCCacting on matters of process, which he does approve.2.2.
The Mechanisms of Descriptive RSTIn the preceding example we have seen how rhetoricalschemas can be used to describe text.
This section describes thethree basic mechanisms of descriptive RST which have beenexemplified above:1.
Schemas2.
Relation Definitions3.
Schema Application Conventions2.2.1.
SchemasA schema is defined entirely by identifying the set ofrelations which can relate a satellite to the nucleus.2.2.2.
Relation DefinitionsA relation is defined by specifying three kinds ofinformation:1.
A characterization of the nucleus,2.
A characterization of the satellite,3.
A characterization of what sorts of interactionsbetween the conceptual span of the nucleus and theconceptual span of the satellite must be plausible, s8It is also anomalous in another way: the widely used pattern of presenting aproblem and its solution does not occur in this text.9All of these characterizations must be made propedy relative to the writer'sviewpoint and knowledge.372In addition, the relations are heavily involved in implicitcommunication; if this aspect is to be described, the relationdefinition must be extended accordingly.
This aspect is outside ofthe scope of this paper but is discussed at length in \[Mann &Thompson 83\].So, for example, to define the "motivation" relation, wewould include at least the following material:1.
The nucleus is an action performable but not yetperformed by the reader.2.
The satellite describes the action, the situation inwhich the action takes place, or the result of theaction, in ways which help the reader to associatevalue assessments with the action.3.
The value assessments are positive (to lead the readerto want to perform the action).2.2.3.
Schema Appl icat ion Convent ionsMost of the schema application conventions have alreadybeen mentioned:1.
One schema is instantiated to describe the entire text.2.
Schemas are instantiated to describe the text spansproduced in instantiating other schemas.3.
The schemas do not constrain the order of nucleus orsatellites in the text span in which the schema isinstantiated.4.
All satellites are optional.5.
At least one satellite must occur.6.
A relation which is part of a schema may beinstantiated indefinitely many times in the instantiationof that schema.7.
The nucleus and satellites do not necessarilycorrespond to a single uninterrupted text span.Of course, there are strong patterns in the use of schemasin text: relations tend to be used just once, nucleus and satellitestend to occur in certain orders, and schemas tend to be used Onuninterrupted spans of text.The theory currently contains about 25 schemas and 30relations.
1?
We have applied it to a diverse collection ofapproximately 100 short natural texts, including administrativememos, advertisements, personal letters, newspaper articles, andmagazine articles.
These analyses have identified the usualpatterns of schema use, along with many interesting exceptions.The theory is currently informal.
Applying it requiresmaking judgments about the applicability of the relations, e.g.,what counts as evidence or as an attempt to motivate or justifysome action.
These are complex judgments, not easily formalized.10In this paper we do not separate the theow into framework and schemas,zdthough for other purposes there is a clear advantage and possibility of doing so.In its informal form the theory is still quite useful as a part of alinguistic approach to discourse.
We do not expect to formalize itbefore going on to create a constructive theory.
(Of course, sincethe constructive theory specifies text construction rather thandescribing natural texts, it need not depend on human judgementsin the same way that the descriptive theory does.)2.3.
Assessing Descr ipt ive RSTThe most basic requirement on descriptive RST is that it becapable of describing the discernible organizational properties ofnatural texts, i.e., that it be a theory of discourse organization.The example above and our analyses of other texts have satisfiedus that this is the case.
11tn addition, we want the theory to have the attributesmentioned in Section 1.
Of these, descriptive RST alreadysatisfies the first three to a significant degree:1. comprehens iveness:  It has fit many different kindsof text, and has not failed to fit any kind of non-literarymonologue we have tried to analyze.2.
funct ional i ty :  By means of the relation definitions,the theory says a great deal about what the text isdoing for the writer (motivating, providing evidence,etc,) .3. scale insensit iv i ty:  The recursiveness of schemasallows us to posit structural units at many scalesbetween the clause and the whole text.
Analysis ofcomplete magazine articles indicates that the theoryscales up well from the smaller texts on which it wasoriginally developed.We See no immediate possibility of formalizing andprogramming the descriptive theory to create a programmed textanalyzer.
To do so would require reconciling it with mutuallycompatible formal theories of speech acts, lexical semantics,grammar, human inference, and social relationships, a collectionwhich does not yet exist.
Fortunately, however, this does notimpede the development of a constructive version of RST for textgeneration.2.4.
Developing a Construct ive  RSTWhy do we expect to be able to augment RST so that it is aformalizable and programmable theoretical framework forgenerating text?
Text appears as it does because of intentionalactivity by the writer.
It exists to serve the writer's purposes.
Many11in another paper, we have shown that implicit communication arises from theuse of the relations, that this communication is specific to each relation, and thatas linguistic phenomena the relations and their implicit communication are notaccounted for by particular existing discourse theories \[Mann & Thompson 83\].373of the linguistic resources of natural languages are associatedwith particular kinds of purposes which they serve: questions forobtaining information, marked syntactic constructions for creatingemphasis, and so forth.
At the schema level as well, it is easy toassociate particular schemas with the effects that they tend toproduce: the Request schema for inducing actions, the Evidenceschema for making claims credible, the/nform schema for causingthe reader to know particular information, and so forth.
Ourknowledge of language in general and rhetorical structures inparticular can be organized around the kinds of human goals thatthe linguistic resources tend to advance.The mechanisms of RST can thus be described within amore general theory of action, one which recognizes means andends.
Text generation can be treated as a variety of goal pursuit.Schemas are a kind of means, their effects are a kind of ends, andthe restrictions created by the use of particular elations are a kindof precondition to using a particular means.Goal pursuit methods are well precedented in artificialintelligence, in both linguistic and nonlinguistic domains \[Appelt81, Allen 78, Cohen 78, Cohen & Perrault 77, Perrault & Cohen78, Cohen & Perrault 79, Newell & Simon 72\].
We expect to beable to create the constructive part of RST by mapping theexisting part of RST onto AI goal pursuit methods.
In particularcomputational domains, it is often easy to locate formal correlatesfor the notions of evidence, elaboration, condition, and so forth,that are expressed in rhetorical structure; the problem offormalization is not necessarily hard.At another level, we have some experience in using RSTinformally as a writer's guide.
This paper and others have beenwritten by first designing their rhetorical structure in response tostated goals.
For this kind of construction, the theory seems tofacilitate rather than impede creating the text.3.
Comparing RST to Other TextGeneration ResearchGiven the mechanisms and example above, we cancompare RST to other computational linguistic work on textgeneration.
12 The most relevant and well known efforts are byAppelt (the KAMP system \[Appelt 81\]), Davey (the PROTEUSsystem \[Davey 79\]), Mann and Moore (the KDS system \[Mann &Moore 80, Mann & Moore 81\]), McDonald (the MUMBLE system12Relating RST to the relevant /inguistic literature is partly done in \[Mann &Thompson 83\], and is outside the scope of this paper.
However, we have beenparticularly influenced by Grimes \[Grimes 75\], Hobbs \[Hobbs 76\], and the work ofMcKeown discussed below.\[McDonald 80\]) and McKeown (the TEXT system \[McKeown 82\]).All of these are informative in other areas but, except forMcKeown, they say very little about text organization.Appelt acknowledges the need for a discourse component,but his system operates only at the level of single utterances.Davey's excellent system uses a simple fixed narrative textorganization for describing tic.tac.toe games: moves aredescribed in the sequence in which they occurred, andopportunities not taken are described just before the actual movewhich occurred instead.
Mann and Moore's KDS systemorganizes the text, but only at the whole-text and single-utterancelevels.
It has no recursion in text structure, and no notion of textstructure components which themselves have text structure.McDonald took as his target what he called "immediate mode,"attempting to simulate spontaneous unplanned speech.
Hissystem thus represents a speaker who continually works toidentify something useful to say next, and having said it, recycles.It operates without following any particular theory of text structureand without trying to solve a text organization problem.McKeown's TEXT system is the only one of this collectionthat has any hint of a scale-insensitive view of text structure.
It hasfour programmed "schemas" (limited to four mainly by thecomputational environment and task).
Schemas are defined interms of a sequence of text regions, each of which satisfies aparticular "rhetorical predicate."
The sequence notationspecifies optionality, repeatability, and allowable alternationsseparately for each sequence element.
Recursion is provided byassociating schemas with particular predicates and allowingsegments of text satisfying those predicates to be expressed usingentire schemas.
Since there are many more predicates thanschemas, the system as a whole is only partially recursive.McKeown's approach differs from RST in several ways:McKeown's schemas are ordered, those of RSTunordered.Repetition and optionality are specified locally; in RSTthey are specified by a general convention.McKeown's schemas do not have a notion of anuclear element.McKeown has no direct correlate of the RST relation.Some schema elements are implicitly relational (e.g.,an "attributive" element must express an attribute ofsomething, but that thing is not located as a schemaelement).
The difference is reduced by McKeown'sdirect incorporation of "focus.
"The presence of nuclear elements in RST and its diversecollection of schemas make it more informative about thefunctioning of the texts it describes.
Its relations make the374connectivity of the text more explicit and contribute strongly to anaccount of implicit communication.Beyond these differences, McKeown's schemas give theimpressio nof defining a more finely divided set of distinctions overa narrower range.
The four schemas of TEXT seem to cover arange included within that of the RST Inform schema, which reliesstrongly on its five variants of the "elaboration" relation.
ThusRST is more comprehensive, but possibly coarser.grained inproviding varieties of description.Our role for text organization is also different fromMcKeown's.
In the TEXT system, the text was organized by aschema-controlled search over thinas that are oermissible to sav.In constructive RST, text will be organized by goal pursuit, i.e., byooal-based selection.
For McKeown's task the difference mightnot have been important, but the theoretical differences are large.They project very different roles for the writer, and very differenttop-level general statements about the nature of text.Relative to all of these prior efforts, RST offers a morecomprehensive basis for text organization.
Its treatment of order,optionality, organization around a nucleus, and the relationsbetween parts are all distinct from previous text generation work,and all appear to have advantages.4.
SummaryA text generation process must be designed around atheory of text organization.
Most of the prior computationallinguistic work offers very little content for such a theory.
In thispaper we have described a new theoretical approach to textorganization, one which is more comprehensive than previousapproaches.
It identifies particular structures with particular waysin which the text writer is served.
The existing descriptive versionof the theory appears to be directly extendible for use in textconstruction.References\[Allen 78\] Allen, J., Recognizing Inlention in Dialogue,Ph.D.
thesis, University of Toronto, 1978.\[Appelt 81\] Appeit, D., Planning natural anguage utterances tosatisfy multiple goals.
Forthcoming Ph.D. thesis, StanfordUniversity.\[Cohen 76\] Cohen, P. R., On Knowing What to Say: PlanningSpeech Acts, University of Toronto, Technical Report 118,1978.\[Cohen & Perrault 77\] Cohen, P. R., and C. R. Perrault, "Overviewof 'planning speech acts'," in Proceedings of the FifthInternational Joint Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Massachusetts Institute of Technology, August 1977.375\[Cohen & Perrauit 79\] Cohen, P. R., and C. R. Perrault, "Elementsof a plan-based theory of speech acts," Cognitive Science 3,1979.\[Davey 79\] Davey, A., Discourse Production, Edinburgh UniversityPress, Edinburgh, 1979.\[Grimes 75\] Grimes, J. E., The Thread of Discourse, Mouton, TheHague, 1975.\[Hobbs 76\] Hobbs, J., A Computational Approach to DiscourseAnalysis, Department of Computer Science, City College, CityUniversity of New York, Technical Report 76-2, December1976.\[Mann & Matthiessen 3.\] Mann, W. C., and C. M. L M. Matthiessen,Nigeh A Systemic Grammar for Text Generation,USC/Information Sciences Institute, RR.83-105, February1983.
The papers in this report will also appear in aforthcoming volume of the Advances in Discourse ProcessesSeries, R. Freedle (ed.
): Systemic Perspectives on Discourse:Selected Theoretical Papers from the 9th InternationalSystemic Workshop, tO be published by Ablex.\[Mann & Moore 80\] Mann, W. C., and J.
A. Moore, Computer asAuthor-.Results and Prospects, USC/Information SciencesInstitute, RR-79-82, 1980.\[Mann & Moore 81\] Mann, W. C., and J.
A. Moore, "Computergeneration of multiparagraph English text," AmericanJournal of Computational Linguistics 7, (1), January - March1981.\[Mann & Thompson 83\] Mann, W. C., and S. A. Thompson,Relational Propositions in Discourse, USC/InformationSciences Institute, Marina del Rey, CA 90291, TechnicalReport RR-83.115, July 1983.\[McDonald 80\] McDonald, David D., Natural Language Productionas a Process of Decision-making under Constraints,Ph.D.
thesis, MIT, Cambridge, Mass., November 1980.\[McKeown 82\] McKeown, K.R., Generating Natural LanguageText in Response to Questions about Database Structure,Ph.D.
thesis, University of Pennsylvania, 1982.\[Newell & Simon 72\] Newell, A., and H. A. Simon, Human ProblemSolving, Prentice-Hall, Englewood Cliffs, N.J., 1972.\[Perrault &Cohen 78\] Perreuit, C. R., and P. R. Cohen, PlanningSpeech Acts, University of Toronto, Department of ComputerScience, Technical Report, 1978.
