A COMFUTATIONAL THEORY OF THE FUNCTION OF CLUE WORDSIN ARGUMENT UNDERSTANDINGRobin CohenDepartment of Computer ScienceUniversity of Toronto'lDronto, CANADA MSS IA4A~TNACTThis paper examines the use of clue words inargument dialogues.
These are special words andphrases directly indicating the structure of theargument to the hearer.
Two main conclusions aredrawn: I) clue words can occur in conjunction withcoherent transmissions, to reduce processing of thehearer 2) clue words must occur with more complexforms of transmission, to facilitate recognition ofthe argument structure.
Interpretation rules toprocess clues are proposed.
In addition, arelationship between use of clues and complexity ofprocessing is suggested for the case of exceptionaltransmission strategies.!
OverviewIn argt~nent dialogues, one often encounters wordswhich serve to indicate overall structure - phrasesthat link individual propositions to form onecoherent presentation.
Other researchers inlanguage understanding have acknowledged theexistence of these "clue words".
Birnbat~n\[Birnbaum 823 states that in order to recognizeargument structures it would be useful to identifytypical signals of each form.In \[Cohen 83\] we develop a computational model forargument analysis.
The setting is a dialogue wherethe speaker tries to convince the hearer of aparticular point of view; as a first step, thehearer tries to construct a representation for thestructure of the arg~ent ,  indicating theunderlying claim and evidence relations betweenpropositions.
Within this framework, a theory oflinguistic clues is developed whlch categorizes thefunction of different phrases, presentinginterpretation rules.What we have done is develop a model for argumentanalysis which is sufficiently well-defined interms of algorithms, with measurable complexity, toallow convenient study of the effect of clue wordson processing.
Two important observations aremade: (I) clue words cut processing of the hearerin recognizing coherent transmissions (2) cluewords are used to allow the recognition oftransmissions which would be incoherent (toocomplex to reconstruct) in the absence of clues.Considering arguments as goal-oriented dialogues,the use of clue words by the speaker can beconstrued as attempts to facilitate the heater'splan reconstruction process.
Thus, there existwords and even entire statements with the solefunction of indicating structure (vs. content) inthe argument.
The importance of structure toargument understanding is first of all a by-productof our imposed pragmatic approach to analysis.
Tounderstand the argument intended by the speaker,the hearer must determine, for each propositionuttered, both where it fits with respect to thedialogue so far and how, in particular, it relatesto some prior statement.
In addition, it isprecisely the expected form of arguments which canbe used to control the analysis (since contentcan't be stereotyped as in the case of stories).It is this importance of form which necessitatesclue words and presents the research problem ofspecifiying their function precisely.II BackgroundTo understand the role of clue words infacilitating analysis, some detail on the overallargument understanding model is required.
(Forfurther reference, see \[Cohen 80\], \[Cohen 81\],\[Cohen 83\]).
Each proposition of the argument isanalyzed, in turn, with respect to the argument sofar.
A proposition is interpreted by determiningthe claim and evidence relations it shares with therest of the argument's propositions.
Leaving theverification of evidence to an oracle, the mainanalysis task is determining where a currentproposition fits.To understand the examples introduced in thispaper, it is useful to present the startingdefinition of evidence, as used in the model.
Aproposition P is evidence for a proposition O ifthere is some rule of inference such that P ispremise to Q's conclusion.
The rule most oftenobserved is modus ponens, with missing majorpremise - i.e.
P, Q are given and one must fillP --> Q to recognize the support intended from P toQ.
More detail on the definition of evidence ispresented in \[Cohen 83\].Determining an interpretation for a proposition isrestricted to a computationally reasonable task bycharacterizing possible coherent transmission251strategies on the part of the speaker and reducinganalysis to a recognition of these forms.
Thesealgorithms are outlined in detail in \[Cohen 83\].The basic restrictions yield e limited set ofpropositions to search.
The representation is atree of claim and evidence relations where evidenceare sons to the father claim.
Essentially, thelast proposition eligible to relate to the currentis tracked (called LAST).
LAST and its ancestorsin the tree are all eligible relatives and each istested in turn, to set the interpretation of thecurrent p~oposition.
The analysis algorithm istermed "hybrid reception" because it is designed torecognize transmission strategies where eachconstituent sub-argument is presented either claimfirst or claim last.
Complexity analysis of thisalgorithm indicates that it works in linear time(i.e.
it takes a linear factor of the number ofnodes of the tree to locate all propositions in tilerepresentation).A sample tree and the processing required for thecurrent proposition is illustrated below:initial" \[ final:2 4< I" / I /9~/ ~ 5 \6 ,  ` ^/ I I~5\7 z 3 "6x,iWith the initial argument above, a new proposition(8) would be checked to be evidence for 7, 6, 5 andI in turn.
If these tests fail, it is thenattached as a son to the dummy root (expecting afather in upcoming propositions).
The final treeabove, for example, may result if the nextproposition (9) is processed and succeeds as fatherto 8.
Note that in processing 8 initially, 4, 3,and 2 were not eligible relatives.
This is becausean earlier brother to a subsequent proposition isclosed off from consideration according to thespecifications of the hybrid algorithm.
SeeAppendix I for a detailed description of possiblecoherent transmission strategies and their"reception" algorithms.III Clues to reduce processing (Helpfulness)With coherent transmissions characterized, therole of clue words can be investigated moreclosely.
Note first that the restrictions of theanalysis algorithms are such that the propositionto which the current one relates is not always theimmedimte prior proposition.
In fact, sometimesthe claim is located far back in the dialogue.Consider the following example:EXI: 1)The city is a mess2)The parks are a disaster3)The playground area is all run down4)The sandboxes arc dirty5)The swings are broken6)The highway system also needsrevampingHere, the representation for thefollowing tree:#2/ ' I~6argument is theThe last proposition, b, is evidence for I, one ofthe claims higher up in the tree.
Many argumentswhich re-address earlier claims assist the hearerby specifically including a clue of re-direction asin EX2 below.EX2: 1)The city is a mess2)The parks are a disaster3)The playground area is all run down4)The swings are broken5)The sandboxes are dirty6)Returning to city problems, the highwaysystem needs revampingHere, the search up the right border of the tree(from 5, 3, 2 to I) for a possible claim to thecurrent proposition b is cut short and the correctfather (I) indicated directly.
One can hypothesizea general reduction on processing complexity fromlinear to real-time, if clues are consistently usedby the speaker to re-direct the hearer with chainsthat are sufficiently long.Connectives are another type of clue word, usedextensively.
Hobbs (\[Hobbs 76J) attempts acharacterization with respect to his coherencerelations for a couple of words.
Reichman(\[Reichman 81\]) associates certain expressions withparticular conversational moves, but there is nounified attempt at classification.
We develop ataxonomy so that clues of the same semanticfunction are grouped to assign one interpretationrule for the dominated proposition within the claimand evidence framework.
Consider the followingexample:EX3: 1)The city needs help2)All the roads are ruined3)The buildings are crumbling4)As a result, we are askingfor federal supportwith the representation:2/ I  ~ 3The connective in 4, "as a result", suggests thatsome prior proposition connects to 4 and that thisproposition acts as evidence for 4.
'lhe relationof the prior proposition is set out b.elow accordingthe the interpretation rule for the category that"as a result" belongs to in the taxonomy.
Theparticular evidence connection advocated here is ofthe form: "If our city needs help, then we willask for federal aid".
\[Note: Whether I isevidence for 4 is tested by trying a modus ponensmajor premise of the form: "(For all cities) if a252city needs help, then it can ask for federal aid",and then using "our city" as the specific case\].The taxonomy (drawn from \[Quirk 72\]) is intendedto cover the class of connectives and presentsdefault interpretation rules.
(P indicates prior proposition; S has the clue)CATEGORY RELATION:P to S EXAMPLEparallel brother in additiondetail father in particularinference son as a resultsummary multiple sons in SL~nreformulation father and son in other wordscontrast father or brother converselyNote that the classification of connectivesprovides a reduction in processing for the hearer.For example, in EX3 with a casual connective, theanalysis for the proposition 4 is restricted to asearch for a son.
In short, connectiveinterpretation rules help specify the type ofrelation between propositions; re-direction clueshelp determine which prior proposition is relatedto the current one.
All together, clue wordsfunction to reduce overall processing operations.See Appendix II for more examples of relations ofthe taxonomy.IV Clues to support complex transmissions (Necessity)C%ue words also exist in conjunction withtransmissions which violate the constraints of thehybrid model of expected coherent structure.
Theclaim is that clues provide a necessary reductionin complexity, to enable the hearer to recognizethe intended structure.
Consider the followingexamples:EX4: 1)The city is a mess2)The parks are run down3)The highways need revamping4)The buildings are crumbling5)The sandbox area is a messEX5: 1)The city is a mess2)The parks are run down3)The highways need revamping4)The buildings are crumbling5)With regard to parks,the sandboxes are a mess6)As for the highways, the gravel is shot7)And as for the buildings,the bricks are rottingThe initial tree for the argument is as follows:In EX4, the last proposition cannot be interpretedas desired; the probable intended fatherproposition (2) is not an eligible candidate torelate to the current proposition (5) according to.he hybrid specifications.
In EX5, however, aparallel construction is specifically indicatedthrough clue words, so that the connections can berecognized by the hearer and the appropriaterepresentation constructed as below:11C--..5.2 6/3 7/4It now becomes important to provide a frameworkfor accommodating "extended" transmissionstrategies in the model.
First, the complexity ofprocessing without clues is a good measure fordetermining whether a strategy should be consideredexceptional.
Then, to be acceptable in the modelthe proposed transmission must have somecharacterizable algorithm - i.e.
still reflect acoherent plan of the speaker.
Further, exceptionaltranmsission strategies must be clearly marked bythe speaker, using clues, in cases where thetransmission can be assigned an alternate readingaccording to the basic processing strategy.
Thehearer should be expected to expend the minimumcomputational effort, so that the onus is on thespeaker to make exceptional readings explicit.In brief, we propose developing a "clueinterpetation module" for the analysis model, whichwould be called by the basic proposition analyzerto handle extended transmissions in the presence ofclues.
Then, complexity of processing should beused as s guide for determining the preferredanalysis.To illustrate, consider another acceptableextended transmission strategy - mixed-modesub-arguments, where evidence both precedes andfollows a claim.EXd: l)The grass is rotting2)The roads are dusty3)The city is a mess4)In particular, the parks are a ruinPreferred rep: ..~..3~ Other possible rep:1 2 4 / \I 2Here, it is preferable to keep I and 2 as evidencefor 3, because this requires less computationaleffort than the re-attachment of sons which takesplace to construct the other possiblerepresentation.
In other words, computationaleffort is a good guide for the specification ofprocessing strategies.Finally, it is worth noting that the specific clueword used may influence the processing for theseextended transmissions.
In EXd, if the lastproposition (4) was introduced by the clue word "inaddition", then the alternate tree would not be aneligible reading.
This is because "in addition"forces 4 to find a brother among the earlierpropositions, according to the interpretation rulefor the "parallel" class of the taxonomy of253connectives.In sum, we propose particular extendedtransmission strategies for the model, including(i) parallel (ii) mixed-mode (iii) multiplerelations.
\[Note: More discussion of (iii) is in\[Cohen 33\].
We consider as an acceptableexceptional strategy the case where one propositionacts as evidence for an entire set of claimsfollowing it immediately in the stream.
Otherconfigurations of multiple relations seem topresent additional processing problems\].
We demandclue words to facilitate the analysis and we beginto suggest how to accommodate uses of theseexceptional cases in the overall analysis model.V Related TopicsA.
Nature of cluesThe exact specification of a clue is a topic forfurther research.
Since it is hypothesized thatclues are necessary to admit exceptionaltransmissions, what constitutes a clue is a keyissue.
Within Quirk's classification ofconnectives (\[Quirk 72\]) both special words andconnecting phrases ("integrated markers") arepossible.
For example, one may say "in conclusion"or "I will conc\].ude by saying".Quirk also discusses several mechanisms forindicating connectives which need to be examinedmore closely as candidates for clue words.
Thesecomstructions are all "indirect" indications.a) lexical equivalence: This includes the casewhere synonyms are used to suggest a connection toa previous clause.
For example: "The monkeylearned to use a tractor.
By age 9, he could worksolo on the vehicle."
In searching for evidencerelations, the hearer may faciltate his analysis byrecognizing this type of connective device.
But itunclear that the construction should be consideredan additional "clue".b) substitution, reference, comparison, ellipsis:Here, the "abbreviated" nature of the constructionsmay be significant enough to provide an extrasignal to the hearer.
For now, we do not considerthese devices as clues, but examine the relationsbetween the use of anaphors and clues in the nextsection.Even w!thin the classification of connectives,there is a question of level of explicitness of theclues.
Consider the example:EX7: 1)The city is dangerous2a)I will now tel!
you why this is so2b)The reason for the danger is...2c)The reason is...2d)The problem is ...2a) is an explicit indication of evidence; b) andc) have a phrase indicating a causal connection,but c) requires a kind of referent resolution aswell; d) requires recognizing "the problem" as anindication of cause.
The problem addressed in thisexample is similar to the one faced by Allen(\[Allen 79\]): handling a variety of surface formswhich all convey the same intention.
In our case,the "intention" is that one proposition act asevidence for another.Finally, there are different kinds of specialphrases used to influence the credibilty of thehearer: I) attitudinal expressions reflecting thespeaker's beliefs and 2) expressions of emphasis.Since our model focuses on the first step inprocessing of recognizing structural connections,these clues have not be examined more closely.However, examples of these expressions are listedin Appendix III, along with phrases indicatingstructure.B.
Relation to reference resolution and focusThere are some important similarities between ourapproach to reconstructing argument structure andthe problem of representing focus for referentresolution addressed in \[Sidner 79\] and \[Grosz 77J.For both tasks, a particular kind of semanticre\]ation between parts of a dialogue must be foundand verified.
In both cases, a hierarchicalrepresentation is constructed to hold structuralinformation and is searched in some restrictedfashion.Orosz's hierarchical model of focus spaces, withvisibility constraints imposed by the task domain,is maintained in a fashion similar to our treemodel.
Information on which of the focus spaces is"active" and which are "open" (possible to shiftto) is kept; open spaces are determined by theactive space and the visibilty constraints.Analysis for a problem such as resolving definitenoun phrase referents can be limited by choosingonly those items "in focus".In \[Sidner 79\] focus is introduced to determineeligible candidates for a co-specification.
Butthe ultimate choice rests with verification by thehearer, using inferencing, that the focus elementrelates to the anaphor.
This is parallel to ourapproach of narrowing the search for aproposition's intepretation, but requiring testingof possible relations in order to establish thedesired link.
To set the focus, Sidner suggestseither: I) using special words to signal thehearer or 2) relying on shared knowledge toestablish an unstated connection.
This isanalogous to our cases of processing with andwithout clues.In Sidner's theory there is also a cleardistinction between returning to an elementpreviously in focus (one from the focus stack) orchoosing a completely "new topic" from priorelements (using the alternate focus list).
Wedistinguish returning to some ancestor of the lastproposition (a choice of eligible proposition) fromthe case of re-addressing a "closed" proposition.254In this latter case, we require a clue word tore-direct.
What we have tried to do is clearlyseparate eligible relatives from exceptional casesand connect the required use of clues to theexceptional category.
Grosz and Sidner both allow"focus shifts" and Sidner explicitly discusses usesof "special phrases", but we have tried to studythe connections between clues and exceptions moreclosely.Finally, it is worth noting that the problem ofreference resolution is similar to that of evidencedetermination, but still distinct.
In the examplebelow, constraints suggested by referent resolutiontheories should not be violated by our restrictedprocessing suggestions:Exa: 1)The city is a mess2)The park is ruined3)The highway is run down4)Every 3 miles, you find a pothole in itIn 4, "it" is resolved as referring to "thehighway" in 3; this proposition is eligible andthe closer connection is preferred.But clue interpretation is not equivalent toreferent resolution.
The clue "for example" may beexpressed as "one example for this is" but couldalso be presented as "one example for this problemis".
Since the search for a referent may differaccording to the surface form (\[Sidner 79\]) thereis no clear mapping from processing propositionswith clues to those with referents.
For our model,surface form may vary widely, but the search isrestricted according to interpretation rules for ataxonomy - according to the semantics of the clue -and the solution is dictated by the structure ofthe argument so far.C.
Necessity in the base caseThe main points raised in this paper are thatclues can be used with a basic transmissionstrategy to cut processing and must be used in morecomplex transmissions.
The question of whethercertain basic transmissions still require clues isworth investigating further.
In particular, it hasbeen suggested (personal communication withpsychologists) that deep stacks require clues toremind the hearer, due to "space" limitations.
Itmay be productive to examine the computationalproperties of this situation more closely.Further, clues are often used to delineatesub-arguments when shifting topics.
Again, somememory limitations for the hearer may be in effecthere.VI ConclusionIn conclusion, this paper outlines one crucialcomponent of the computational model for argumentanalysis described in \[Cohen 83\].
It presents afirst attempt at a solid framework for clueinterpretation within argument understanding.
Theapproach of studying goal-based dialogue andstructure reconstruction also allows us to commenton the the function of clue words within analysis.The theory of clue interpretation gives insightinto a known construction within sample dialogues;examining the computational properties provides aframework for design of the analysis model.
It isimportant to note that there has been no effort todate to study the use of clue words extensively,distinguishing cases where they occur andsuggesting when clues are necessary.
The cluetheory presented here also has possibleimplications for other application areas.
Forexample, in resolving referents Sidner (\[Sidner79J) has suggested that clues will occur wheneverthe alternate focus list is consulted, beyond thefocus stack default.
Our claim is that thenecessity for clues is closely tied to thecomplexity of processing and the reduction inprocessing operations afforded by the additionalstructural information provided by the clue words.REFERENCES\[Allen 79\] Allen, d.; "A Plan Based Approach toSpeech Act Recognition"; University of TorontoDepartment of Computer Science Technical Report No.131\[Birnbatm 82\] Birnbaum, L.; "Argument Molecules:A Functional Representation of Argument Structure";Proceedings of AAAI 82\[Cohen 80J Cohen, R.; "Understanding Arguments";Proceedings of CSCSI 80\[Cohen 81\] Cohen, R.; "Investigation ofProcessing Strategies for the Structural Analysisof Arguments"; Proceedings of ACL 81LCohen 83J Cohen, R.; A Computational Model forthe Analysis of Arguments; University of TorontoDepartment of Computer Science Ph.D. thesis(University of Toronto Computer Systems ResearchGroup Technical Report No.
151)\[Grosz 77J Grosz, B.; "The Representation and, Useof Focus in Dialogue Understanding"; SRI TechnicalNote No.
151\[Hobbs 76\] Hobbs, J.; "A Computational Approachto Discourse Analysis"; Department of ComputerSciences, CUNY Research Report No.
76-2\[Quirk 72\] Quirk, R. et al ; A Grammar ofContemporary English; Longmans Co., London\[Reichman 81\] Reichman, R.; "Plain Speaking: ATheory and Grammar of Spontaneous Discourse"; BBNReport No.
4681\[Sadock 77\] Sadock, J.; "Modus Brevis: TheTruncated Argument"; in Papers from the 13thRegional Meeting, Chicago Linguistics Society255\[Sidner 79\] Sidner, C; "Towards a ComputationalTheory of Definite Anaphora Comprehension inEnglish Discourse"; MIT AI Lab Report TR-537Appendix I: Coherent Transmission StrategiesCoherent transmissions are illustrated andreception algorithms required to recognize thesetransmissions outlined.
1~is material is firstintroduced in \[Cohen 81\].a)PRE-ORDER: state claim, then present evidenceEXAI: 1)Jones would make a good president I2)He has lots  o f  experience / \3)He's been on the board for 10 years 2 44)And he's honest I J5)He refused bribes while on the force 3 5In the above example, each claim consistentlyprecedes its evidence in the stream ofpropositions.b)POST-ORDER: present evidence, then state claimEXA2: 1)Jones has been on the board 10 years 52)He has lots of experience | \3)And he's refused bribes4)So he's honest i i5)He would really make a good president I 3Here, the comparable example in post-order (whereevidence precedes claim in the stream) is s t i l lcoherent.The hearer can construct particular receptiona\]gorithms to recognize either of the transmissionstrategies.
To interpret a current proposition inthe case of pro-order transmission, the hearer mustsimply look for a father: in fact, the test isperformed only on the last proposition and itsancestors, up the right border of the tree.
Inpost-order, the algorithm makes use of a stack tohold potential sons to the current proposition;the test is to be father to the top of the stack;if the test succeeds, all sons are popped and theresulting tree pushed onto the stack: if the testfails, the current proposition is added to the topof the stsck.c)HYBRID: any sub-argument may be in pre- or post-orderEXA3: 1)Jones would make a good president I2)He has lots  o f  experience /~3)He's been on the board 10 years 2 54)And he's refused bribes /5)So he's honest 3 4The above exgmple illustrates a coherent hybridtransmission.
The hybrid reception algorithm isthen a good approximation to a general processingstrategy used by the speaker.
Essentially, thealgorithm combines techniques from pro- and post-order reception algorithms, where both a father andsons for a current proposition must be found.
Thesearch is still restricted, as certain propositionsare closed off as eligible relatives to the currentone, according to the specifications of the hybridtransmission.
There is an additional problem, dueto the fact that evidence is treated as atransitive relation.
Sons are to be attached totheir immediate father; so, it may be necessary torelocate sons that have been attached initially toa higher ancestor.
This situation is illustratedbelow:Here, 4 any 5 would succeed as evidence for I(since they are evidence for 6 and 6 is evidencefor I); they will initially attach to I andrelocate as sons to 6 when 6 attaches as son to I.Here is an outline of the proposed hybrid receptionalgorithm.
It makes uses of a dummy root node, forwhich all nodes are evidence.
L is a pointer intothe tree, representing the lowest node that canreceive more evidence.
For every node NEW in theinput stream:forever do:if NEW evidence for L thenif no sons of L are evidence for NEW then/* just test lastson for evidence*/attach NEW below Lset L to NEWexit forever loopelseattach all sons of L which areevidence for L below NEW/* attach lastson; bump ptr.
to lastson *//* back I and keep testing for evidence */attach NEW below Lexit forever loopelse set L to father (L)end forever loopAPPENDIX II: Examples of Taxonomic Relations\[Cohen 81\] first suggests using commoninterpretation rules for connectives in onecategory of a taxonomy.
Various examples presentedin that paper are included here as additionalbackground.
In the discussion below, S refers tothe proposition with the clue; P refers to theprior proposition which connects to S.1)Parallel: This category includes the most basicconnectors like "in addition" as well as lists ofclues (e.g.
"F i r s t ,  secondly, th i rd ly .
.
. "
) .
Pmust be brother to S. Finding a brother involveslocating the common father when testing evidencere lat ions.E~4:  1)The city is in serious trouble /I\2)There are some fires going 2 43)Three separate blazes have broken out ~34)In addition, a tornado is passing through256The parallel category has additional rules forcases where lists of clues are  present.
Then,propositions with clues from the same list mustrelate.
But note that it is not always a brotherrelation between these specific propositions.
Infact, the brothers are the propositions which serveas claims in each sub-argument controlled by a listclue.EXA5: 1)The city is awful ~/I\42)First, no one cleans the parks3)So the parks are ugly I \4)Then the roads are a mess 2 55)There's always garbage thereHere, 2 and 4 contain the clues; 3 and ~ arebrothers.2)Inference: There are clues like "therefore"which directly indicate inferences being drawn.The classification of "result" covers cause andeffect relations which are  of the form: if causetrue then (most likely) effect true.
Clues of thistype are also included in the inference category.P will be son for S.EXA6: 1)The fire destroyed half the city 132)People are homeless I3)As a result, streets are crowded I3)Detail: Included in this category are clues ofexample and particularization, where S lendspartial support to P. Here, P will be father to S.EXAT: 1)Sharks are not likeable I~2)They are unfriendly to humans 2%3)In particular, they eat people 34)Summary: Ordinarily, summary suggests that a setof sons are to be found.
S is father to a set ofP's.EXA8: 1)The benches are broken / ~2)The trails are choppy I 2 33)The trees are dying4)In sum, the park is a mess5)Reformulation: The taxonomy rule suggestslooking for a prior proposition to be both fatherand son to the one with the clue.
To representthis relation our tree model is inadequate.However, reformulations are often seen asadditional evidence, adding detail and emphasis,and could then be recorded simply as sons to theprior statement.
The example below suggests thatinterpretation:EXA9: 1)We need more money2)In other words, we are brokeNote that additional discussion of the role ofreformulation is included in \[Cohen 83\].6)Contrast: Although the notion of contrast iscomplex, for now we interpret a proposition whichoffers contrast to some evidence for a claim asproviding (counter) evidence for that claim, andhence S is a son of P; likewise, a propositionwhich contrasts another directly without evidencepresented, is a (counter) claim, and hence S is abrother to P.EXAIO: 1)The city's a disaster 1 ~2)The parks have uprooted trees 2 33)But at least the playground's safeEXAlt: 1)The city is dangerous / ~2)The parks have muggers 4 33)But the city has no pollution 24)And there are great roads5)So, I think the city's greatIn EXAI0, the clue signals a s0n to higher claim;in EXA11, the clue connects two brother claims.APPENDIX III:Sample List of Clue WordsThis list is drawn from \[Quirk 72\].
Note that somewords may belong to more than one category.I Coinciding with the connective taxonomy1:ParallelI first 17 on top of it all2 second..etc.
18 and what is more3 secondly..etc.
19 and4 next 20 neither...nor5 then 21 either...or6 finally 22 as well as7 last 23 rather than8 in the first place 24 as well9 for one thing 25 too10 for a start 26 likewise11 to begin with 27 similarly12 to conclude 28 equally13 furthermore 29 again14 moreover 30 also15 in addition 31 further16 above all\[Note that 24-31 are appositions; 20 - 23 operatebetween clauses in one sentence\].2: Summary32 altogther33 overall34 therefore35 thus36 all in all37 in conclusion38 in sum39 to conclude40 to summarize41 I will sum by saying42 My conclusion is\[Note that 41 and 42 are whole phrases or"integrated markers"\].3: Reformulation43 namely 45 that is to say44 in other words 46 alternately4: Detail47 for example48 fo r  instance49 another instance is50 in particular2575: Inference51 that is 57 if so52 accordingly 58 if not53 consequently 59 That implies5a hence 60 l deduce from th,~b55 as a consequence 61 You can conclude from that56 as a result\[Note 57 and 58 operate betueen clauses within onesentence; 60 @nd 61 are whole phrases\].6: Contrast62 otherwise63 conversely64 on the contrary65 in contrast66 by comparison67 however~8 nonetheless69 though70 yet71 in any case72 at any rate73 after all74 in spite of  that75 meanwhile76 rather than77 I would rather say78 The alternative is\[Note 77 and 78 are whole phrases\].II Attitudinal expressionsThese adverbs indicate a degree of belief of thespeaker.primarily, principally, especially, chiefly,largely, mainly, mostly, notably, actually.certainly, clearly, definitely, indeed, obviously,plainly, really, surely, for certain, for sure.
ofcourse, frankly, honestly, literally, simply, kindof.
sort of.
more or less, mildly, moderately.partially, slightly, somewhat, in part.
in somerespects, to some extent, scarcely, hardly, barely.a bit.
a little, in the least, in the slightest,almost, nearly, virtually, practically,approximately, briefly, broadly, roughly.admittedly, decidedly, definitely, doubtless.possibly, reportedly, amazingly, remarkably.naturally, fortunately, tragically, unfortunately,delightfully, annoyingly, thankfully, correctly.justly\[II Emphasis: indicate and defend  ~ claimto be sure.
it is true.
there is little doubt, Iadmit, it cannot be denied, the truth is.
in f~ct.in actual factIV Transitions (re-directing structure)let us now turn to.
spea\]'ing of.
that reminds meNote that this appendix is not intended to list allpossible clue words, but merely gives the reader anindication of the existing forms and possiblecategories.258
