CONTROL STRUCTURES AND THEORIES OF INTERACTIONIN SPEECII UNDEP~.WI'ANDING SYSTEMSE.J.
Briscoe and B.K.
BoguraevUniversity of Cambridge, Computer  LaboratoryCorn Exchange Street,  Cambridge CB2 3QG, EnglandABSTRACTlr: this paper, we approach the problem of organisat ionand control  ip.
automat ic  speech unders tand ing  sys temsfiraT.ly, by present in~ a theory  of the non-ser ia lin teract ions  "~eces';ary between two processors  in thesystem; namely, the morphosyntaet i c  and the prosodic,and secondly, by showing how, when general ised,  thistheory  allows one to specify a highly eff ic ienta rch i tec ture  for a speech unders tand ing  sys tem with asimple control  s t ruc ture  and genuinely independentcomponents .
The theory of non-ser ia l  in teract ions  wepresent  predicts  that  speech is temporal ly organised ina very specif ic way; that  is, tee sys tem would notfunct ion effectively if the tempora l  d istr ibut ion ofvar ious types of in format ion in speech were dif ferent.The arch i tec ture  we propose is developed from a s tudyof the task of speech, unde:s tand ing  and, fu r thermore ,  isspecific to this task.
Consequent ly,  the paper  a rguesthat  general  problem solving methods  are unnecessaryfor speech unders tand ing .!
INTRODUCTION\]t is general ly accepted that  (he control  s t ruc tures  ofspeech unders tand ing  sys tems (SUSs) must  allow fornon-ser ia l  in teract ions  between di f ferent knowledgesources  or components  within the system.
By r, on-serial  in te rac t ion  (NS1) we refer to communicat ionwhich extends  beyond the normal,  serial, flow ofin format ion entai led by the tasks  under taken  by eachcomponent .
For example, the output  of the wordrecognit ion sys tem will provide the input  tomorphosyntact i c  analysis,  a lmost  by definition;however, the operat ion of the morpho.~yntaeticana iyser  .,~hould be const ra ined  on some occas ions byprosodic  cues: say, that  he:" is accented  and followedby a "pause".
whil,':'.t dog is not, in(1) Max gave her  dog b4-';cuits.Similarly, the output  of the morphosyntact i c  ana lyserwill provide the input to scrnantie analysis,  but onoccasion, the operat ion of the rnorphosyntacLicana lyser  will be more eff ic ient if it has  access  toin format ion about  the discourse:  say, that  the horsehas no unique re ferent  ip,(2) "/he horse raced  past  the barn  fe l l ,because this informat ion will faci l i tate the reducedrelative in terpretat ion  (see Crain & Steedman,  inpress).
Thus, NSIs will be required betweencomponents  which occur  both before and after  themorphosyntact ie  ana lyser  in the serial chain ofp rocessors  which const i tu te  the complete SUS.NSls can be captured  in a str ict ly  serial,h ierarch ica l  model, in which the flow of informat ion isalways "upwards",  by comput ing every possibil itycompat ib le with the input at each level of processing.However, this will involve much unnecessarycomputat ion  within each separate  component  whichcould be avoided by uti l ising in format ion alreadyten,:;orally available in the signal or context  ofu t te rance ,  \]::ut net  part  of the input to that  level.
Ana l ternat ive a rch i tec ture  is the heterarch ica l  system;this avoids such  ineff iciency, in principle, by allowingeach component, to communicate  with all o thercomponents  in the system.
However, control l ing theflow of in format ion and specifying the in ter facesbetween components  in such  sys tems has  proved verydiff icult (Rcddy & Erman,  1975).
The mostsoph is t icated SUS arch i tec ture  to date is theb lackboard model (Erman at a!., 1980).
The modelprovides a means  for common representat ion  and aglobal database  for communicat ion  betweencomponents  and allows control  of the sys tem to beeentra l ised and relatively independent  of individualcomponents .
The four essent ia l  e lements  of the modelb lackboard entr ies,  knowledge sources, theblackboard and an intel l igent control  mechan ism -in teract  t.o emulate  a problem solving style that  ischaractemst icat ly  incrementa l  and opportunist ic .
NSIsarc thus  allowed to occur,  in principle, when they willbe of g reates t  value for prevent ing unnecessarycomputat ion .What  is striking about these system architecturesis that they place no limlts on the kinds of interactionwhich occur between component.% that is.
none ofthem are based on any theory  of what kind ofin teract ions  and eomrnunicat ion will be needed in aSUS.
The des igners  of tile Hearsay- l l  sys tem wereexphcit  about  this, arguing that.
what was requi redwas an arch i tec ture  capable of suppor t ing  ally form ofinteract ion,  but which was still relatively eff ic ient(Erman & Lesser, 1975:484).259qhcrc  appear  to bc al least two prob lems with such anapproach  Fir.~tly.
the des igner  of an mdivMua\]con'.pe~lent must  stdl take ml.o account  whmh othercomponents  hould be act ivated by its outputs ,  as wellas who prey,des ~ts inputs,  precmcly because  noprmc~plcs of in teract ion  are provided by the model.
Thisentai ls,  even within the loosely s t ruc tured  aggregat ionh ie rarchy  of the b lackboard,  some commttment  todeci'.
;ions about  in ter -component  traff ic in in fo rmat ion  -rat ional  answers  to these dec ismns  cannot  be providedwi thout  a theory  of mteractmn between individualcomponents  in a SUS.Secondly.
aconsiderable amount of effort has goneinto specifying lobal scheduling heuristics formaintaining an agenda of knowledge sourcc activationrecords m blackboard system~, and this has sometimesled to treating the control problem as a distinct issueindependent of the don-~ain under consideration,localismg it on a scparatc, schcdu\]ing, blackboard(I\]alzcr, Errnan and London, t980; Haycs-Roth,  1983a).Once again, this is because  the b lackboard  f ramework,as iL is defined, provides no inherent  const ra in ts  onmtcract ions  ( | tayes-Hoth,  1983b).
While this means  thatthe model is powerful  enough to repl icate cont ro ls t ra teg ies  used in qual i tat ively different.
AI sys tems,  aswell as generat ise  to prob lem-so lwng in mult iple domains(}laycs-I,:oth, 1983a), the b lackboard  method of cont ro lstill fails to provide a complete  answer  to the schedul ingproblem.
It is in tended predommantty  for solvingprob lems whose so lut ien  depends  on heur i s t i cs  whichmust  cope with large vo lumes of nmsy data.In the context  of a b lackboard-based  SUS, wherethe assumptmn that  the fo rmat ion  of the "cor rect "in terpretat ion  of an input  signal will, mevitably,  beaccompan ied  hy the generatmn of many compet ing(part ia l )  mterprc ta tmns  is Impiicit m the redundancyencoded in the individual knowledge sources ,  the onlyreal and pract ica l  answer  to the contro l  p rob lemremains  the deve lopment  of global s t ra teg ies  to keepunnecessary  computatmn within pract ica l  limits.
Theses t ra tcgms are developed by tun ing the sys tem on thebasis  of per fo rmance  cr i tema: this tuareg appears  tohmlt  in teract ions  to just.
those  opt imal cases which arelikely to yield success fu l  analyses,  tlowever, msofar  asthe fmal sys tem might claim to embody a theory  about~hicil int,-,ractions are useful,  this will never  berepresented  in an explicit fo rm in the loosely s t ruc turedsyzt.cm components ,  but  only implimtly in the the run-t ime behav iour  of the whole system: and there fore  isunlikely to be rceow.
'rable (see the ana logous  cr i t ic ism in\]Iayes-l~.oth, 1983a:55).I INTERACTIVE DETERMINISM:A THEORY OF NON-SERIAL INTERACTIONIn this section, we concentrate on the study of NSIbetween morphosyntactm and prosodic  in fo rmat ion  inspecch, largely f rom the perspective ofmorphosyntact i c  analysis.
This in teract ion  occursbetween two of the bet ter  unders tood  components  of aSUS and there fore  seems an appropr ia te  s tar t ing  pointfor the deve lopment  of a theory  of NSIs.Lea (1950) a rgues  that  prosod ic  in fo rmat ion  willbe of use for morphosyntaet ic  process ing .
Thisdmcuss ion  is bascd on the observat ion  (see Cooper  &Pacc ia-Cooper ,  1980; Cooper  & Sorenson ,  1981), thatthere  is a s t rong  cor re la t ion  between some syntact i cboundar ies  and prosod ic  ef fects  such as lengthening,s tep  up in fundamenta l  f requency,  changes  ofampl i tude and, somet imes ,  pausing.
However, many ofthese  ef fects  are  probab ly  i r re levant  tomorphosyntact i c  analysis,  being, for example,  sideef fects  of product ion ,  such  as planning,  hes i tat ion,a f te r thorghts ,  false s tar ts ,  and so forth.
If p rosody isto be uti l ised effectively to faci l i tate morphosyntact i canalysis,  then  we rcqmre  a theory  eapab!c  ofindicat ing when an ambiguous  prosodic  cue such  aslengthen ing  is a consequence  of syntact i c  env i ronmentand, there fore ,  re levant  to morphosyntact ie  analysis.None of tea 's  p roposa ls  make this d ist inct ion.In o rder  to develop such  a theory,  we requ i re  aprec ise account  of morphosyntact ie  analysm embeddedin a model of a SUS which specif ies the nature  of theNSIs available to the morphosyntaet ie  ana lyserConmdcr a s imple modu lar  a rch i tec ture  of a SUS mwhich most  in fo rmatmn flows upwards  through eachlcvel of process ing,  as in the serial,  h ie rarch ica lmode l  This in format ion  is passed  wi thout  delay, soany operat ion  per fo rmed by a processor  will be passedup to its successor  m the cham of p rocessorsimmediate ly  (see Fig.
l).Fur thermore ,  we const ra in  the model as follows:at least  f rom the point of word recogni t ion  upwards ,only one in terpretat ion  is computed  at each level.That is, word recogni t ion  re turns  a ser ies  of unique,cor rec t  words, then morphosyntact i c  analys is  providesthe unique,  correct grammat ica l  descr ip t ion  of thesewords, and so forth.
In o rder  to implement  such  aconst ra in t  on the processmg,  the model includes, inaddit ion to the pr imary  flow of in format ion,  secondarychanne ls  of commumcat ion  which provide for the NSIs( represented  by stogie a r rows  tn the diagram).
Theseinteract ive  channe ls  are bidirect ional ,  allowing onecomponent  to request  cer ta in  highly res t r tc ted  kindsof in format ion  f rom another  component  and, inprinciple, can connect  any pair  of p rocessors  in aSUS260DISCOURSE\[ <-~\[ SEMANTICS IO"PARSE '~---J4>WORDS'~1 PROSODY IFig.
1imag ine  a morphosyntact ie  ana lyser  which bu i ldsa un ique  s t ruc ture  w i thout  backt rack ing  and  employsno, or  very  l itt le, l ook -ahead Such a parser  will face aehmce point ,  i r reso lvab le  morphcsyntaet i ca l l y ,  a lmostevery  t ime it encounters  a s t ruc tura l  ambigu i ty ,whether  local or g loba l  Fur ther ,  suppose  that  th i sparser  seeks  to apply some genera l  s t ra teg ies  toreso lve  such  cho ices ,  that  is, to se lec t  a par t i cu la rg rammat ica l  in te rpreta t ion  when faced  with ambigu i ty .If such  a parser  m to be able to operatedcterrn in ls t ica l ly ,  and  stil l  re turn  the  cor rec t  ana lys i sw i thout  e r re r ,  m cases  when a genera l  s t ra tegy  wouldyield the  wrong ana lys i s ,  then  it will requ i rein teract ive  channe ls  for t ransmi t t ing  a s ignal  capab leof b lock ing the  app l i ca t ion  of the  s t ra tegy  and  forc ingthe  cor rec t  ana lys is .
These  are  the  secondarychanne ls  of communicat ion  pos i ted  in the  model  of theSUS above.A theory  of NSls shou ld  spec i fy  when,  in te rmsof the  operat ion  of any  indiv idual  p rocessor ,in te rac t ion  will be necessary ;  in te rac t ive  channe ls  forth i s  parser  must  be capab le  of prov id ing th isin fo rmat ion  at  the  onset  of any  givenmorphosyntaet i c  ambigu i ty ,  which is def ined as thepo int  at  which the  parser  will have  to apply  itsreso lu t ion  s t ra tegy .
In o rder  to make  the  concept  ofonset  of ambigu i ty  p rec i se  a model  of theThis d iagram is not  in tended to be complete  and  isonly inc luded  to i l l us t ra te  the  two d i f fe rent  typesof communicat ion  proposed  in th i s  paper .morphosyntactic component  of a SUS was designedand  imp lemented .
This  ana lyser  (hencefor th  theLEXieal-CATegorial  parser  - because  it employs  anExtended Categor ia l  Grammar  (eg.
Ades & Steedman,1982) represent ing  morphosyntact i c  in fo rmat ion  as anextens ion  of the  lex icon)  makes  spec i f ic  p red ic t ionsabout  the  tempora l  avai labi l i ty  of non-morphosyntact iein fo rmat ion  c ruc ia l  to  the  theory  of NSls p resentedhere .
LEXICAT's s t ra tegy  for  reso lu t ion  of ambigu i t iesis approx imate ly  a combinat ion  of late c losure(Fraz ier ,  1979) and  r ight  assoc ia t ion  (Kimball ,  1973).LEXICAT is a spec ies  of sh i f t - reduce  parser  whichernp~oys the  same s tack  for  the  s to rage  and  ana lys i sof input  and inspects  the  top three  cel ls of the  s tackbe fore  each  pars ing  operat ion .
Reduct ion ,  however ,never  invo lves more  than  two ee'.ls, so the  top cell ofthe  s tack  ac ts  as  a very  res t r i c ted  one word look-ahead  buf fer .
In genera l ,  LEXICAT reduces  the  i tems incel ls  two and  three  prov ided  thai.
reduct ion  betweencel ls  one and  two is not  g rammat ica l l y  possib le*.
;Yhen LEXICAT encounters  ambigu i ty ,  in themajor i ty  of s i tuat ions  th is  sur faces  as a cho icebetween sh i f t ing  and  reduc ing .
When a sh i f t - reduceehmce ar i ses  between e i ther  cel ls  one and two or twoand  three ,  reduct ion  will be preferred by  defau l t ;a l though,  of course ,  a se t  of in te rac t ive  requests  willbe generated  at  the  po in t  when thin cho ice  ar ises ,  andthese  may prov ide in fo rmat ion  which b locks  thepre fer red  s t ra tegy .
The approx imate  e f fec t  of thepre ference  for  reduct ion  is that  incoming  mater ia l  isa t tached  to the  const i tuent  cur rent ly  under  ana lys i swhich is " lowest"  in the  phrase  s t ruc ture  t ree.
LEXICATis mrni lar  to recent  p roposa ls  by Church  (1980),i : 'ercira (in p ress )  and  Sh ieber  (1983), in that  itemploys  genera l  s t ra teg ies ,  s ta ted  in te rms  of theparser ' s  bas ic  operat ions ,  in o rder  to parsedetermin is l iea l l y  with an ambiguous  grammar .A theory  of NSls shou ld  also spec i fy  howin teract ion  occurs .
When LEXICAT recogn iscs  a cho icepoint ,  it makes  a request  for  non-morphosyntact i cin fo rmat ion  re levant  to th i s  th race  on all of thein teract ive  channe ls  to wh ich  it is connected ;  if any  ofthese  channe ls  re turns  a pos i t ive  response ,  thede fau l t  in te rpreta t ion  is over r idden .
The parser  isthere fore  agnost i c  concern ing  which channe l  mightprov ide the  re levant  in fo rmat ion ;  for example ,ana lys ing(3) ha fore the King rides h~:s horseit's :tsually groomed.The onset  of th is  rnorphosyntact i c  ambigu i ty  a r i seswhen the horse has  bcen  ana lysed  as a noun  phrase .LEXICAT must  dec ide  at  th i s  po in t  whether  Tides is tobe t reated  as t rans i t i ve  or  in t rans i t i ve :  the  t rans i t i ve.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.This is not  complete ly  accurate ;  see1984:Ch3 fer  a full descr ip t ion  of LEXICAT.E~riszoe261reading Is p re fer red  given the rcsnluLion strategyoutlin(,.d above.
"(herefore, an interact ive request willbe generated  reque:~tin~ in format ion concern ing  thercP:tmnship between these two constituents.
A simpleyes /no  rcsponse  is all that  m needed along thisinteract ive channei :  "yes" to prevent  appl;.cation of thes t rategy,  "no" if the processor  concerned f indsnoth ing re levant  to the decision.
In re lat ion to thisexample,  cons ider  the channel  to the prosodicana lyser  which mon i to rs  for prosodic  "breaks"  (def inedin terms or vowel lengthening,  change of fundamenta lf requency  and so forth):  whcn the request  is rcecivcdthe prosodic analyscr returns a positive response ifsuch a break is prcscnt in the appropriate part of thespeech signal.
In (3) none of these cues is likely tooccur since t.hc rclcvant boundary is syntacticallywcak (see Cooper & Paecm-Coopcr, 1980), so theinteractive request wil l  not rcsu!t in a positiveresponse, the default resolution strategy will applyand his horse will bc intcrprctcd as direct object ofr ides.
In(4) \[Tefore the h~ng rides his horseis usua l ly  groomed,cn the e ther  hand, an interact ive request  will begenerated  at the same point, but  the interact ivechanne l  between the prosodic  and morphosyntact i ccomponents  is likely to produce  a posit ive responses ince the boundary  between rides end his horse issynLactical ly sLrongcr.
Thus, a l tachment  will beblocked, closing the subord inate  clause, and therebyforcing the cor rect  in terpretat ion .NSI , then,  is res t r i c ted  to a set.
of yes /noresponses  over the interact ive channe ls  at theexplicit.
:'equcst of the processor connected to thosechannels ,  where a posit ive response  on one interact ivechanne l  suff ices to overr ide th:~ unmarked  choicewhich would be made in the absence  of such a signal.This highly res t r i c ted  form of interact ion is :;ufficientto guarantee  that  I,EXICAT will p roouce  the cor rectanalys is  even in cases  of severe mutt iplc ambiguity;for example,  ,Jnalymng the noun compound in(b)lioron epoxy rocket motor  chambers,( f rom Mareu:~, \[980:253), th(:rc are four teen  + licitmorph:~syntactm in terpretat ions ,  assuming  s tandardgramrnat.ical ana lyses  (eg.
Sell{irk, t983).
However, ifthis example were spoken and we assume that  it wouldhave the prosodic  s t ruc ture  pred icted by Cooper &Pace ia -Cooper 's  (1980) a lgor i thm for deriving prosody.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.Possibly Lhese responses  hon!d be represented asconf idence rat ings  ra ther  Lhan a d iscrete  choice.In this case levels of cer ta in ty  concern ing  theprcscnce /absencc  of re levant  events  cculd bervpre~i 'ntcd,  l lowcver, for tim rest  of ~.his paper  weassume binary channe ls  wi!!
suffice.+ Cor respond ing  to the Catalan numbers ;  see MartineL al.
(198l).f rom syntact ic  s t ruc ture ,  LEXICAT could produce  thecorrect analyms without error, just throughinteraction with the prosodic analyser.
As each nounenters the ar,alyser, reduction will be blocked by thegeneral strategy but, because LEXICAT will reeognisethe ex is tence of ambLguity, an interact ive  request  willbe generated  before each shift.
The prosod ic  b reakchanne l  will then prevent  reduct ion  a f ter  epoxy anda f ter  ~otor ,  forc ing the cor rect  analys is  ((boronepoxy) ((rocket motor)  chambers)),  as opposed  to thedefaul t  r ight -branch ing  structure.Thus, NSI between the morphosyntaetie andprosod ic  components  can be captured  by a bistable,b id i rect ional  link capable  of t ransmi t t ing  a requestand signal ing a b inary  reponse,  e i ther  blocking orallowing the appl icat ion of the re levant  s t ra tegyaccording to the presence or absence of a prosodicbreak.
Given the simplicity of this interaction, theprosodic analyser requires no more information fromLhe parser  than  that  a decis ion is requestedconcern ing  a par t i cu la r  boundary .
Nor need theprosodic  ana lyser  decide, pr ior  to an in teract iverequest  on this channel ,  whether  a par t i cu la roccur rence  of, say lengthening,  is signall ing thepresence  of a prosodic  break,  ra ther  than  for ins tances t ress ,  s ince the request  itself will help resolve thein terpretat ion  of the cue.
Moreover, we have a s implegenera l i sat ion  about  when inLeractive requests  will bemade s ince Lhis account  of NSIs pred ic ts  that  prosod icin fe rmatmn will only be re levant  to morphosyntaet icanalys is  at the onset  of a morphosyntact i c  ambiguity.If we assume (boldly) that  this account  of NSIbcLween the morphosyntaet ie  and prosodic  ana lyserswill genera l i sc  to a complete  model of SUS, then  sucha model rnakcs a set  of pred ic t ions  concern ing  thetempora l  availabil ity of in teracQvc in fo rmat ion  in thespeech  signal and representaQon of the context  ofu t te rance .
In effect, it c laims that  the SUSarch i tec ture  simply presupposes  that  language iso rgan iscd  Jil the appropr ia te  fashion s ince the modelwill not.
funct ion if it is not.
We call this strongpredict ion about the temporal  organisat ion of thespeech signal the Interactive Determin ism (ID)Hypothes ,s  s ince it is essenQal ly  an extens ion  ofMarcus'  (1980) Determin ism Hypothesis .II TESTINGTHE INTERACTIVE DETERMINISM HYPOTttESISThe ID hypothes is  pred ic ts  th,~t speech  and thereprescntat ion  of context  is organiscd in such  a waythat.
in format ion  will be available, when needed, vzaNSI Lo resolve a choice in any individual component  atthe point  when that  choice ar ises.
Thus m the case ofprosodic  in teract ion  with morphosyntaet ie  analys is  thetheory  pred ic ts  that  a prosodic  b reak  should  bepresent  in speech  at  the onset  of a morphosyntaet ie262ambigu i ty  which requ i res  a non-defau l t  in te rpreta t ionand wh ich  is  not  reso lved  by o ther  non-morphosyntactic i n fo rmat ion .
This  aspect  of the  IDhypothes is  has  been  tes ted  and  cor roborated  by PaulWarren (1983; in prep;  a lso see Br iscoe,  1984:Ch4),who has  under taken  a ser ies  of speech  product ionexper iments  in which (typical ly)  ten  sub jec ts  reada loud a l ist  of sentences .
This  l ist conta ins  se ts  ofpa i r s  of local ly ambiguous  sentences ,  and  some fi l lersentences  so that  the  purpose  of the  exper iment  isnot  apparent  to the  sub jec ts .
Their  p roduct ions  a rcana lysed  acoust i ca l l y  and  the  resu l t s  of th i s  ana lys i sa rc  then  checked  s tat i s t i ca l ly .
The techn ique  g ives agood ind icat io~ of whether  the  cues  assoc ia ted  with aprosod ic  b reak  are  present  at the  appropr ia te  po in tsin the  speech  s ignal ,  and  the i r  cons , , s tency  acrossd i f fe rent  speakers .Return ing  to examples  (3) and  (4) above,  wenoted  that  a p rosod ic  b reak  would be requ i red  in (4),but  not  (3), to p revent  a t tachment  of r ides  and  hzshorse.
Warren found  exact ly  th i s  pat te rn  of resu l t s ;the  durat ion  of r ides  (and s imi la r  i tems in th ispos i t ion)  is an  average  51% longer  in (4) and  the  fallin fundamenta l  f requency  is a lmost  twice as great  witha cor respond ing  s tep  up to horse,  as  compared  to asmooth  dec l inat ion  across  th is  boundary  in (3).Similar ly,  ana lys ing(6) 7he company  awarded  the cont rac t\ [ to /was \ ]  the h ighest  bidcler.I,E),qCAT pre fers  a t tachment  of The company  toawarded ,  t reat ing  awarded  as the  main  verb.
In thecase  where  awarded  must  be t reated  as the  beg inn ingcf a reduced  re lat ive,  Warren  found  that  the  durat ionof the  f inal sy l lable of company  is lengthened and  thatthe  same pat tern  of fall and  s tep  up in fundamenta lf requency  occurs .
Perhaps  the  mo'~t in teres t ing  casesa re  ambiguous  const i tuent  questmns ;  Church(19g0,117) a rgued  that  it is p robab ly  imposs ib le  toparse  these  dctermin is t iea l l y  by employ ing  look -ahead:"The real ly  hard  prob lem with wh-movement  isf ind ing the  "gap" where  the  wh-e lementor ig inated.
This is not  par t i cu la r ly  d i f f icu l t  fora non-determin is t i c  competence  theory ,  but  itis (probably)  imposs ib le  for  a determin is t i cp rocess ing  model .
"LEXICAT pred ic ts  that  in a sentence  such  as(7) ~Vho d id you  want  to g ive the presents  to 5~.e?the  potent ia l  po int  of a t tachment  of Who as d i rec tob ject  of want  will bc ignored by de fau l t  in p re ferencefor  the  immedia te  a t tachment  of to give.
Thus  there  isa p red ic t ion  that  the  sentence ,  when spoken ,  shou ldconta in  a p rosod ic  b reak  at  th i s  point.
Warren hasfound  some ev idence  for th i s  pred ic t ion ,  i.e.
want  islengthened as compared  to examples  where  th is  is notthe  cor rec t  po int  of a t tachment  of the  prcposedphrase, such as(8) Who did you  want  t.~ g ive  the presents to?but  the  prosod ic  cues ,  a l though cons is tent ,  a recomparat ive ly  weak, and  it is not  c lear  that  l i s tenersa re  ut i l i s ing them in the  manner  pred ic ted  by thetheory  (see Br iscoe,  1984:Ch4).A d i f fe rent  k ind of suppor t  is p rov ided  bysentences such as(9) Before the I~ng r ides  a servantg rooms his horse.which exh ib i t  the  same local ambigu i ty  as  (3) and  (,t)but  where  the  semant ic  in terpreta t ion  of the  nounphrase  makes  the d i rect  ob ject  read ing  implaus ib le ,  inth i s  case  it is l ikely that  an  in teract ive  channe lbetween the  semant ic  and  morphosyntact l c  ana lyserswould block the  incor rec t  in terpreta t ion .
So there  is ap red ic t ion  that  the  funct iona l  load on prosod icin fo rmat ion  will decrease  and,  there fore ,  that  theprosod ic  cues  to the  break  may be less  marked .
Thisp red ic t ion  was aga in  cor roborated  by Warren whofound  that  the  prosod ic  b reak  in examples  such  as (9)was s ign i f i cant ly  less  rnarked acoust i ca l l y  than  forc~arnp lcs  such  as (4)*.
In genera l  then ,  theseexper imenta l  resu l t s  suppor t  the  ID hypothes is .Ill CONTROl, STRUCI'URE AND ORGANISATIONIn a SU~J based  on the  ID model ,  the  main  flow ofin fo rmat ion  will be def ined by the  tasks  of eachcomponent ,  and  the i r  med ium of communicat ion ,  willbe a natura l  consequence  of these  tasks ;  as  for  theser ia l ,  h ie rarch ica l  model .
However,  in the  ID model ,un l ike  the  h ie rarch ica l  model ,  there  a rc  lessoverheads  because  unnecessary  computat ion  at  anyicv(.l of p rocess ing  will be e l im inated  by the  NSIsbetween components .
These  in teract ions  will, ofcourse ,  requ i re  a la rge number  of in te rac t ivechanne ls ;  but  these  do not imply a commonrepresentat ion  language because the  in fo rmat ionwhich passes  a long them is representat ion - independentand  res t r i c ted  to a min imal  request  and  a b inaryresponse .
Each  channe l  in the  full SUS will beded icated  to a speci f ic  in te rac t ion  betweencomponents ;  so the  morphosyntact ie  component  willrequ i re  a p rosod ic  b reak  channe l  and  a un iquere ferent  channe l  (see example  (1)), and  so for th .Thus ,  a complete  model  of SUS will imp lement  a theoryof the  types  of NSI requ i red  between all components .Finally, the  ID model  will no t  requ i re  that  anyind iv idual  p rocessor  has  knowledge  of the  nature  ofthe  operat ions  of another  p rocessor ;  that  is, theNote that this result is inexplicable for theorieswhich attempt to derlve the prosodlc structure of asentence directly f rom its syntactic structure; seeCooper  3: Paccia-Cooper (\].980:181f).263morphosyr:tacLic ana lyser  need riot know what is beingeoiT~puted at the other  end of the prosodic  breakchannel ,  or how; nor  riced the p:'osodic ana lyser  knowwhy it is eomput in~ the presence  or absence  of aprosodic  break.
Rather, the knowledge that thisinfor'ma~lon is potent ia l ly  impor tant  is expressed  bythe ex istence of this par t i cu la r  inLeract ive channel.The cont ro l  s t ruc ture  of this model iss t ra ight fo rward ;  a f te r  each separate  operat ion  of eachindiv idual  c~mponent  the resu l ts  of this operat ion  willbe passed to the next  component  in the ser ial  chainol processors.
An in teract ive  request  ~'ill be made byan}, component  only when faced with an indetermin ismi r reso lvab le  in "erms of the input  avai lable to it.
Nofu r ther  scheduhng or  eent.ral ised cont ro l  of process ingwill be reqmred.
Fur thermore ,  a l though each indiv idualeomK.enent determines  when .N3Is will occur,  becauseof the res t r i c ted  nature  of this in teract ion  eachcomponent  can sti l l  be developed as a complete lyindependent  knowledge source.The determin is t i c  nature  of the individualcomponent~ of this SUS e l iminates the need for anyglob,d hcurm!
ies  to be brought  into the analys is  o\[ thespeech  signal.
Thus we have di--pensed neat ly with therequ i rement  for an over -powerfu l  and over -genera lproblem-solv ing f ramework,  such as the b lackboard,and replacr:d it with a theory  specif ic to the domainunder  conmdera l ion;  namely, language.
The theory  ofX~q}s of fers  a uat is faetory  specif ic method for speechundci.-:tallding which allowrr the separate  specia l istc,~mpor;ent procedures  of a SUS to be"a!For i thmet ized'"  and compiled.
As Erman et al(1980::L16) suggest: "In such a ease t i le f lex ib i l i ty  of asystem l ike Hcarsay- l l  may no longer  be needed".
"fhe res t r i c t ions  on the nature  and d i rect ional i tyof NSI ehanne is  in a SUE:, and the s i tuat ions  in whichthey \[iced to be act ivated,  a;Iowt; a modu lar  sys temwho'.~e contro l  s t ruc ture  is not inuch more  complexthan  th:.~t of the h ierarch ica l  mode}, and yet, via thenet.work of interact ive channels ,  achieves theeff iciency sought  5y the heterarch iea l  and b lackboardmodels, wi thout  the concomi tant  p rcb lems of commonknowledge representat ions  and complexeom!Tmni~zations protoco ls  between separate  knowledgesources .
Thus, the ID mode!
d i spenses  with theoverhe.
id costs  of data -d i rec ted  act ivat ion of'.mowledge sources  and the need for oppor tun is t i cschedul ing or a complex focus -o f -cont ro l  mechan ism.IV CONCLUSIONIn this paper  we have proposed  a very idealised modelof a SUS with a s imple o rgan isat ion  and cont ro ls t ruc ture ,  Clearly, the ID model assumes  a greaterlevel of unders tand ing  of many aspects  of speechprocess ing  than  is cur rent .
For example,  we haveassurncd that  the word recogni t ion  component  iscapable  of re turn ing  a ser ies  of unique,  cor rec t  lexicalitems; even with interaction of the kind envisaged, itis doubt fu l  that  our  cur rent  unders tand ing  ofacoust i c -phcnet ic  analys is  is good enough for it to beposs ib le to build such  a component  now.
Neverthe less ,t i .
.
exper imenta l  work repor ted  by Marslcn-Wilson &Tyler (1980) and Cole & Jakimik (1980), for example,suggests  that  l i s teners  are  capable  of access ing  aun ique Icxical i tem on the basis  of the acoust i c  s ignaland interact ive  fcedback f rom the developing analys isof the u t terance  and its context  (of ten before theacoust i c  signal is complete) .
More ser iously,  f rom theperspective of interactive determinism, little has beensaid about the many other interactive channels whichwill be required for speech understanding and, inpart icu lar ,  whether ,  these  channe ls  can be asres t r i c ted  a.~: the prosod ic  break  channel .
For example,cons ider  the channe l  which will be requ i red  to capturethe in teract ion  in example  (9); this will need to besensiLive to someth ing  like semant ic  "anomaly" .tIowever, ?.emantic anomaly  is an inherent ly  vagueconcept ,  part icu lar ly  by compar i son  with that  of aprosodic  break.
Similarly, as we noted above, themorphosyntact i c  ana lyser  will requ i re  an in teract ivechanne l  to the d i scourse  ana lyser  which ind ieateswhether  a noun phrase  followed by a potent ia l  relat iveclause, such  as ta r  horse  in (3), has  a un iquere ferent .
However.
s ince this ehanne l  would only seemto be re levant  to ambigui t ies  involving relat ive c lauses,it appears  to east  doubt  on the claim that  interaet iverequests  are  generated  automat ica l ly  on every channe leach t ime any type of ambigui ty  is encountered .
This,in turn,  suggests  that  the contro l  s t ruc ture  proposedin the last sect ion is oversimpli f ied.Nevertheless ,  by s tudy ing these tasks  in te rms offar more re, ; tr ictcd and potentially moreeomputat iona l ly  eff ic ient models, we are more  likely touncover  res t r i c t ions  on language which, oncediscovered,  will take us a s tep  c loser  to t rac tab leso lut ions  to the task of speech  unders tand ing .
Thus,the work repor ted  here suggests  that  language isorgan ised in such  a manner  that  morphosyntact i canalys is  can proceed detcrmin is t ica l ly  on the basis  ofa very res t r i c ted  pars ing algor i thm, because  non-s t ruc tura l  in format ion  necessary  to resolveambigui t ies  will be available in the speech  signal (orrepresentat ion  of the context  of u t te rance)  at  thepo int  when the  choice ar i ses  dur ing  mcrphosyntaet icanalysis.Tile account  of morphosyntact ie  analys is  thatthls constraint allows is more elegant, parsimonious264and empirical ly adequate  than  employing look-ahead(Marcus, 1980).
Firstly, an account  based on look-ahead is forced to claim that  local and globalambiguit ies are resolved by di f ferent mechan isms(since the latter ,  by definit ion, cannot  be resolved bythe use of morphosyntaet ic  informat ion fu r therdownst ream in the signal), whilst the ID modelrequires only one mechanism.
Secondly, res t r i c tedlook-ahead fails to delimit accurate ly  the class of so-called garden path sentences  (Milne, 1982; Briscoe,1983), whilst the ID account  correct ly  predicts  the i r" interact ive"  nature  (Briscoe, 1982, 1984; Crain &Steedman, in press).
Thirdly, look-ahead involvesdelaying decisions, a s t rategy which is madeimplausible, at least in the context  of speechunderstanding,  by the body of exper imenta l  resu l tssummar ised by Tyler (1981), which suggest thatmorphosynta: ' : t ie analysis is extremely rapid.The generat isat ion of these resu l ts  to a completemodel of SUS represents  commitment  o a researchprogramme which sets as its goal the discovery ofconst.raints on language which allow the assoc iatedprocess ing tasks to bc implemented in an eff icient andt ractab le  manner  What is advocated here, therefore,is the development of a computat iona l  theory  ofiangoage processing derived through the study oflanguage from the perspect ive of these process ingtasks, much in the ~ame way in whmh Marr (1982)developed his comput.ational theory of vision.Acknowledgements: We would like to thank  DavidCarter, Jane Robinson, Karen Sparck Jones and JohnTait for the i r  helpful comments.
Mistakes remain ourown.V REFERENCESAdes,A.
and Steedman,M.
(1982) 'On the Order ofWords', Linguistics and Philosophy, col.5, 320-363Balzer,R., Erman,L., London,P.
and Williams,C.
(1980)'HEARSAY-Ill: A Domain- Independent  Framework forExpert  Systems',  Proceedings of the AAAI(1),SLanford, CA, pp.
108-110Briscoe,E.
(1982) 'Garden Path  Sentences  or GardenPath  Utterances? '
,  Cambridge Papers in Phoneticsand Experimental Lingui.~tics, vol.\], 1-9Briscoc,E.
(1983) 'Determinism and its implementat ionm Parsifal '  in Sparck Jones,K and Wilks,Y.(eds.
),Automatic Natural Language Parsing, EllisHorwood, Chichester,  pp.61-68Briscoe,E.
(1984) Towards an Understanding of SpokenSentence Comprehension: The InteractiveDeterminism H~jpothesis, Doctoral Thesis,Cambridge UniversityChurch,K(1980)  On Memory Limitations in NaturalLanguage Processing, MIT/LCS/TR-245Cole,R and Jakimek,J .
(1980) 'A Model of SpeechPercept ion '  in Cole,R.
(eds ), Perception andProduction of Fluent Speech, Lawrence Erlbaum,New JerseyCooper,W.
and Paccia-Cooper, J .
(1980) 3yntax andSpeech, Harvard University Press, Cambridge, MassCooper,W.
and Sorenson, J .
(1981) PundamentalPrequency in Sentence Production, Spr ingerVerlag, New YorkCrain,S.
and Steedman,M.
( In press) 'On Not Being LedUp the Garden Path: the Use of Context by thePsychologmal Parser '  in Dowty,D., Kar t tuncn ,Land Zwicky,A.(eds.
), Natural Language Processing,Cambridge University Press, CambridgeErman,L ,  Hayes-Roth,F., Lesser,V.
and Rcddy,R.
(1980)'The t learsay-I I  Speech Understanding System:Integrat ing Knowledge to Resolve Uncerta inty ' ,Computing Surveys, col. 12, 213-253Erman,L.
and Lesser,V.
(1975) 'A Multi-LevelOrganisat ion for Problem Solving Using Many,Diverse, Cooperat ing Sources of Knowledge',Proceedings of the 4th IJCAI, Tbilisi, Georgia,pp.d83-490Fra:'ier,L.
(1979) On Comprehending Sentences:Syntactic Parsing 52rategies, IULC, Bloomington,Indiana}Iayes-Roth,B.
(1983a) A Blackboard Model of Control,Report No.HPP-83-38, Depar tment  of ComputerScience, Stanford Universityl layes-Roth,B.
(1983b) 7he Blackboard Architecture: AGeneral Framework for Problem Solving?, ReportNo HPP-83-30, Department.
of Computer  Science,Stanford  UniversityKimbatl,J.
(1973) 'Seven Pr inciples of Surface St ructurePars ing in Natural  Language',  Cognition, col.2, 15-47I,ea,W.
(1980) 'Prosodic Aids to Speech Recognit ion' inW.
l,ea(cds.
), Trends in Speech Recognition,Prent ice  Hall, New Jersey, pp 166-205Marcus,M.
(1980) A Theory of S)jntactie Recognition forNatural I~nguage, MIT Press, Cambridge, Mass.Marr,D.
(1982) V/sion, W.H.Freeman and Co., SanFranciscoMarslcn-Wdson,W.
and Tyler,L.
(1980) 'The TemporalS t ructure  of Spoken \]_,anguagc Understanding:  thePercept ion of Sentences  and Words in Sentences ' ,Cbgnition, col 8, 1-74Martin,W., Church,K.
and Patil ,R.(1982) PreliminaryAnalysis of a I3readth-F~rst Parsing Algorithm:Theoretical and Experimental Results,MIT / I,CS/TR- 261Milne,R.
(1982) 'Predict ing Garden Path  Sentences ' ,Cognitive Science, col.6, 349-373Percira,F.
( \ ]n press)  'A New Character i zat ion  ofA t tachment  Pre ferences '  in Dowty,D., Karttunen,L.and Zwicky,A.(eds.
), Natural I~nguage Processing,Cambridge University Press, CambridgeSelkwk,E.
(1983) The Syntaz of Words, MIT Press,Cambridge Mass.Shieber,S (1983) 'Sentence  Disambiguation by a Shift-265t,~ccltJ(',~ Par~irL.q Technique' ,  I~'oceedings of th.e21.st A~.n.~zctl ,,~4eeti.ng of AC\[,.
C~rnbridgc, Mass,pp 1 13-ilFJt,~eddy,JL and Erman,\[ ,(197,5) 'Tutor ia l  on SystemOrganlsatlon for Speech Understanding' inR!
{eddy(eds), Speech \[?ecogr~tior~" Invited Papersof th.e ll';J'.
"," .b~.qrrtpos'i.um.
Academic Pre~s, NewYork, pp.,IbT- ,179'ryler,L.
(1981) ',~er~ai and Interact lye-Parallel Theoriesof Sentence Proces~;ing', 7~eorelLcat \[,ir~g~zistics,vot.\[L 29-65War'ren,P.
(19l\]3) 'Temporal and Non-Ternporal Cues toSent.encc Structure' .
6"ctmbmdge Papers irLPhonetics ~nd I;zperimenta.l l,?r~guist?cs, vot.HWarren,P.
(|n prep) lhzrational i;~ctors in 5~geech~5'ocessinE, Doctoral Thesis, Cambridge University266
