SEMANIIC PARSING AS GRAPH LANGUAGE TRANSFORMATION -A MULIIDIMENSIONAL APPROACH TO PARSING HIGHLY INFLECTIONAL LANGUAGESEero Hyv~nenHe\]sJnkJ I Jn ivers i ty  of TechnoloQyD ia J ta l  SysLems LaboratoryOtakaarJ 5An215n Espoo 15FINLANDABSTRACTThe structure of many languages with"free" word order and rich morphology l ikeFinnish is rather configurational thanl inear.
Although non-linear structurescan be represented by l inear formalisms i tis often more natural to studymultidimensional arrangement of symbols.Graph grammars are a multidimensionalgeneralization of l inear string grammars.In graph grammars string rewrite rules aregeneralized into graph rewrite rules.This paper  presents a graph grammarformalism and parsing scheme for parsinglanguages with inherent configurationalf lavor.
A small experimental Finnishparsing system has been implemented(Hyv6nen 1983).A SIMPLE GRAPH GRAMMAR FORMALISMWITH A CONTROL FACILITYIn applying string grammars to parsingnatural Finnish several problems arise inrepresenting complex word  structures,argeements, "free" word ordering,d iscont inuity,  and intermediate depenciesbetween morphology, syntax and semantics.A strong, multidimensional formalism thatcan cope with d i f ferent  levels of languageseems necessary.
In this chapter a graphgrammar formalism based on the notions ofrelat ional  graph grammars (Rajl ich 1975)and attr ibuted programmed graph grammars(Bunke 1982) is developed for parsinglanguages with configurational structure.Def in i t ion 1.1 (relat ional  graph, r-graph)Let ARCS, NODES, and PROPS be f in i te  setsof symbols.
A relat ional  graph (r-graph)RG is pair RG = (EDGES, NP) consisting ofa set of edgesEDGES, ARCSxNODESxNODESand a function liP that associates eachnode in EDGES to a set of labeledproperty values:tJP: NODESxPROPS -> PVALUESPVALUES is the set of possible nodeproperty values.
They are represented assets of symbols or l i s t s .Example: Figure I .1 depicts themorphological r-graph representation ofFinnish word "ihmisten" (the humans') andi ts  edges as a l i s t .
EXT-propertyexpresses the set of symbols the nodecurrently refers to (extension); CATte l l s  the syntactico-semantic category ofthe node.C~L~?
NR \[XT.
(PL)\[XT- {IHNINEN)CAT- (SUBST- I HHINEN)((NOUN N1 N2)(C#3E NI N3)(NR Nl N4)(PERS Nl N5)(PS Nl N6)(EP Nl N7))Fig.
1.1.
Morphological r-graphrepresentation of word "ihmisten" (thehumans).Def in i t ion 1.2 (r-production)An r-production RP is a pair:RP = (LS, RS)LS ( le f t  side) and RS ( r ight  side) arer-graphs.
An RP is said to be applicableto an r-graph G i f f  EDGES~EDGES G and thevalues in N~sare subsets 6f correspondingvalues in NPofor each node in LS.Def in i t ion 1.3 (direct r -der ivat ion)The direct r -der ivat ion of r-graph H fromr-graph G via an r-production RP = (LS,RS) is defined by the following algorithm:Algorithm 1.1 (Direct r -der ivat ion)Input: An r-graph G andan r-production RP = (LS, RS)Output: An r-graph H derived via RPfrom G517PROCEDURE Di rect-r-deri vation :BEGINIF RP is applicable to G (see text)THENEDGES G := EDGES G - EDGESLsH :=GURSRETURN HELSERETURN "Not applicable"ENDHere U is an operation defined for twor-graphs RGI and RG2 as follows:H = RGI I~ RG2i f fEDGES H = EDGESRG 1 U EDGESRG 2 andNPw(ni, propj) = NPDr.~(ni, propj) for anypriJperty propj in every node ni in RG2.Time complexity: Direct r -der ivat ions areessential ly set operations and can beperformed e f f i c ient ly .
By using a hashtable the expected time complexity is O(n)with respect to the size of the production( i t  does not depend on the size of theobject graph).
The worst case complexityis O(n**2).Example: Figure 1.2 represents anr-production and f igure 1.3 i tsapplication to an r-graph.
We havedesigned a meta-production descriptionfac i l i ty  for r-productions by whichmatch-predicates can be attached to nodesand arcs in order to test and modify nodeproperies.
The instant iat ion of ameta-production is foundcontext-dependently while matching theproduction le f t  side.
I t  is also possibleto specify some special modifications tothe derivation graph by meta-productions.)Fig.
1.2.
Production ADJ-ATTRident i fy  adjective attr ibutes.toDef in i t ion 1.4 (r-graph gralnmar andr-graph language)An r-graph grammar (RGG) is a pair:RGG = (PROD, START)PROD is a set of r-productions and STARTis a set of r-graphs.An r-graph language (RGL) generated by anr-graph grammar is the set of a l lderivable r-graphs f rom any r-graph inSTART by any sequence of applicabler-productions of PROD:RGL ={R-graphISTART =,~R-graph!EXT-fPL) EXT-{~ PL)?
~T~U~T I F CM.ANECilVE CM-IIOUtt-ABSTEXT=(eO~-ALL) EXT.
{BIG) \[XT=(PRCG.AFTER:(Node properties as above)Fig.
1.3.
The effect of applyingproduction ADJ-ATTK ( f ig .
1.2) to anr-graph.Def in i t ion 1.5 (control led r-graphgrammar)A controlled r-graph grammar (CRG) is apair:CRG = (CG, RGG)CG is an r-graph called control graph(c-graph).
I ts  interpretat ion is definedvery much in the same way as withATN-networks.
The actions associated toarcs are direct r -derivat ions (def.
1.3).RGG is an r-graph grammar (def.
1.4).Example: Figure 1.4 i l l us t ra tes  a c-graphexpressing potential at t r ibuteconfigurations of nouns belonging tocategory !JOUN-HUMAN.
Adjective, pronounand genetive attr ibutes and a quant i f iermay be ident i f ied  hy correspondingr-productions (the meaning of (READWORD)-and (PUT-LAST)-arcs is not relevant here).518PRON-ATTRADJ-ATTR ADJ-ATTRFig.
1.4.
A control graph expressingattr ibute configurations ofsyntactico-semantic word  categoryNOUN-HUHAN.Def in i t ion 1.6 (Controlled graph language)A controlled graph  language (CGL)corresponding to a controlled r-graphgrammar CRG = (CG, RGG) is the set ofr-graphs derived by the CG using the startgraphs START and the productions of thegrammar RGG.2 A GRAPH GRAIItIAR PARSING SCHEME2.1 Function and structureFigure 2.1 depicts a RGG-based parsingscheme that we have applied to naturallanguage parsing.
Roughly spoken, theinput of the parser, i .e .
the set STARTof a CRG, is the morphologicalrepresentation(s) of a sentence.
Theoutput is a set of corresponding semanticdeep case representations.
Parsing is~een as a multidimensional transformationbetween the morphological and semanticlevels of a language.
These levels areseen as graph languages.
The parseressential ly defines a "meaning preserving"mapping from the morphologicalrepresentations of a sentence into i tssemantic representations.
Thetransformation is specified by acontrolled r-graph grammar.
The controlgraph is not predefined but is constructeddynamically according to the individualwords of the current sentence.
Duringparsing morphological and semanticrepresentations are generated in paral lelas words are read from le f t  to r ight .2.2 Specification of the morphologicaland semantic graph languagesMorphological level .
The morphologicalrepresentation of a sentence consists ofs tar - l ike  morphological representations ofthe words ( f ig .
1.1) that are gluedtogetiler by sequential >- and <-relations( f ig .
1.3).Semantic level.
The semanticrepresentatien of a sentence consists of asemantic deop case structure correspondingtc Lhe main verb.
Deep case constituentshave their  own semantic case structurescorresponding to their  main words.SOURCE GRAPH LANGUAG?MORPHOLOGYControl led r-nraph c-~MINTERPRE~R g ramma r(CRG', /iGOAL GRAPH LANGUAGE/3SEtIANTI CS\PRODUCTIONS jFig.
2.1.
A parsing scheme for transforminggraph languages.Example: Figure 2.2 i l l us t ra tes  thesemantic representation of question " Kukaluennoits i ja on luennoinut jonkunseminaarimaisen kurssint ieto jenk~si t te lyteor iasta yksyll~ 1981"("Which lecturer has lectured someseminar-type course on computer science inthe autumn 1981").MAZNFig.
2.2.
Semantic graph representation ofa Finnish question.
Node propertiesare not shown.2.3 Specification of the graph languagetransformationThe transformation is specified by anagenda of p r io r i t i zed  c-graphs.In i t ia l l y ,  the agenda consists of a set ofsentence independent "transformational"c-graphs (that,  for example, transformpassive clauses into active ones) and519sentence dependent c-graphs correspondingto the syntactico-semantic categories ofthe individual words in the sentence.
Forexample, the c-graph of f ig .
1.4corresponds to nouns belonging to categoryNOUN-HUMAN.
I t  t r ies  to ident i fy  semanticcase constituents by the productionscorresponding to the arcs.
Fig.
1.2i l l us t ra tes  the production ADJ-ATTR(adjective at t r ibute)  used in the c-graphof f ig .
1.4.
The interpretat ion of theproduction is: I f  there is an adjectivepreceeding a noun in the same case andnumber the words are in semantic KINDrelat ion with each other.
As a whole, theagenda constitutes a modular, sentencedependent c-graph.Parsing is performed by interpret ing theagenda.
Di f ferent strategies could beapplied here; the structure of thec-graphs depend on the choice.
In ourexperimental system parsing is performedby interpret ing the f i r s t  c-graph in theagenda.
The c-graohs are defined in suchway that they interpret each other and gluemorphological representations of wordsinto the derivation graph (arcs (READWORD)and (PUTLAST) in f ig .
1.4) unt i l  agrammatical semantic representation (or inambiguous cases several ones) is reached.2.4 L inguist ic  and computationalmotivationsMost in f luent ia l  l i ngu is t i c  theories andideas behind our parser are dependencegrammar, semantic case grammar, and thenotion of "word expert" parsing.
The ideais that the c-graphs of word categoriesact ively try to f ind the dependents of themain words and ident i fy  in what semanticroles they are (cf .
theADJ-ATTR-production of f ig .
1.2).
Insome cases i t  i t  useful to assign activerole to dependents.
The c-graphs serve asi l l us t ra t ive  l ingu is t i c  descriptions ofthe syntactico-semantic features of wordcategories and other fenomena.Computationally, our formalism and parsingscheme gives high expressive power but i tstime complexity is not high.
Onlypotent ia l ly  relevant productions are tr iedto use during parsing.
Graphs arei l l us t ra t ive  and can be used to expressboth procedural and declarative knowledge.New word category models can be added tothe parser rather independently f rom theother models.Our small experimental g raph  grammarparser for Finnish (Hyv6nen 1983) is s t i l ll i gu i s t i ca l l y  quite naive containing some150 lexical  entries, 50 productions, and50 c-graphs.
A larqer subset of Finnishneeds to be modelled in order to evaluatethe approach properly.
We are currentlydeveloping the graph grammar approchfurther by generalizing the formalism intohierarchic graphs.
By this  way,  forexample, large graph structures could bemanipulated more easily as single ent i t iesand identical structures could haved i f ferent  interpretat ions in d i f ferentcontexts.
Also, a more  elaboratecoroutine based control structure forinterpret ing the c-graphs is underdevelopement.
We feel that the idea ofseeing parsing as a multidimensionaltransformation of re lat ional  graphs instead of as a del inear izat ion process of astring into a parse tree is worthinvest icat ing further .3 ACKNOWLEDGEMENTSThanks are due to Rauno Heinonen, HarriJ~ppinen, Leo Ojala, Jouko Sepp~nen andthe personnel of Dig i ta l  SystemsLaboratory for f ru i t fu l  discussions.Finnish Academy, Finnish CulturalFoundation, Siemens Foundation, andTechnical Foundation of Finland havesupported our work f inanc ia l l y .4 REFERENCESBunke H. (1982): Attr ibuted graphgrammars and their  application toschematic diagram interpretat ion.
IEEETrans.
of pattern analysis and machineinte l l igence,  No 6, pp.
574-582.Hyv~nen E. (1983): Graph  grammarapproach to natural language parsing andunderstanding.
Proceedings of IJCAI-83,Karlsruhe.Rajlich V. (1975): Dynamics of discretestructures and pattern reproduction.Journal of computer and system sciences,No 11, pp.
186-202.520
