Refer r ing  as Request ingPhilip R. CohenArtificial Intelligence CenterSRI InternationalandCenter for the Study of Language and InformationStanford University1.
In t roduct ion  1Searle \[14\] has arg,ed forcefully that referring is a speech act;that people refer, uot just expressions.
This paper considers whatkind of speech act referring might be.
I propose a generalization ofSearle's "propositional" act of referring that treats it as an illocution-ary act, a request, and argue that the propositional ct of referring isunnecessary.The essence of the argument is as follows: First, I consider Searle'sdefinition of the propositional ct of referring {which I term the PAA,for Propositional Act Account).
This definition is found inadequateto deal with various utterances in discourse used for the sole pur-pose of referring.
Although the relevance of such utterances to thepropositional ct has been defined away by Searle, it is clear that anycomprehensive account of referring should treat them.
l develop an ac-count of their use in terms of a speaker's requesting the act of referentidentification, which is to be understood in a perceptual sense.
Thisitlocutionary act analysis (IAA) is shown to satisfy Searle's conditionsfor referring yet captures utterances that the PAA cannot.
The con-verse positif)n is then examined: Can the IAA capture the same usesof referring expressions as the PAA?
If one extends the perceptually-based notion of referent identification to include Searle's concept ofidentification, then by associating a complex propositional att itudeto one use of the definite determiner, a request can be derived.
The\]AA thus handles the referring use of definite noun phrases with in-dependently motivated rules.
Referring becomes a kind of requesting.llence, the propositional act of referring is unnecessary.2.
Refer r ing  as a propos i t iona l  speech  actRevising Austin's \[2\] Iocutionary/i l locutionary dichotomy, Searledistinguishes between illoeutionary acts (IAs) and propositional acts(PAs) of referring and predicating.
Both kinds of acts are performedin making an utterance, but propositional cts can only be performedin the course of performing some illocutionary act.Let us consider Searle's rules for referring, which I term the"propositional ct analysis", or PAA.
A speaker, S, "successfully andnon-defectively performs the speech act of singular identifying refer-ence" in uttering a referring expression, R, in the presence of hearer,H, in a context, C, if and only if:1.
Normal input and output conditions obtain.2.
Tile utterance of R occurs as part of the utterance ofsome sentence (or similar stretch of discourse) T.3.
The utterance of T is the (purported) performanceof an il locutionary act.4.
There exists some object X such that either R con-\]The research reported in this paper was supported initially by the Fairchild Cam-era and Instrument Corp. Its subsequent development has been made possibleby a gift from the System Development Foundation.
I have benefitted from manydiscussions with Itector Levesque and Ray Ferra.ult.rains an identifying description of X cr S is able tosupplement R with an identifying description of X.5.
S intends that the utterance of R will pick out oridentify X to If.6.
S intends that the utterance of R will ideatify X to ttby means of If's recognition of S's intention to iden-tify X and he intends this recognition to be achievedby means of It's knowledge of the rules governing Rand his awareness of C.7.
The semantical rules governing R are such that it iscorrectly uttered in T in C if and only if conditi~ms1-6 obtain."
( l\]4\], PP.
94-95.
)Conditions 2 and 3 are justified as follows:Propositional acts cannot occur alone: that is oue can-not just \[emphasis n original - -  PRC\] refer and pred-icate without making an assertifm or asking a questionor performing some other illocutionary act .. .
One onlyrefers as part of the performance of an illocutionary act,and the grammatical  clothing of an iilocutionary act isthe complete sentence.
An utterance of a referring ex-pression only counts as referring if one says something.
(Ibid, p.
25.
)The essence of Conditions 4 and 5 is that the speaker needs toutter an "identifying description".
For Searle, "i(lentification ~ means"... there should no longer be any doubt what exactly is being talkedabout".
(lbid, p.
85.)
Furthermore, not only should the descriptionbe an identifying one (one that would pick out an object), but thespeaker should intend it to do so uniquely (Colidition 5).
Moreover,the speaker's intention is supposed to be recognized by the hearer{Condition 6}.
This latter Gricean \[7\] condition is needed to distin-guish having the hearer pick out an object by referring to it versus,for example, hitting him in the back with it.3.
P rob lems for the  Propo~i t iona l  Act  Ac-countIn a recent experiment \[3\], it was shown that in giving instructionsover a telephone, speakers, but not users of keyboards, often madeseparate utterances for reference and for predication.
Frequently?
thes.e"referential utterances" took the form of existent ial sentences, uch as"Now, there's a black O-ring".
Occasionally, speakers used questionnoun phrases "OK, now, the smallest of the red pieces?"
The datapresent wo problems for the PAA.3.1.
Referring as a Sentential PhenomenonConditions 2 and 3 require the referring expression to be em-bedded in a sentence or "similar stretch of discourse" that predicates207something .
f  the refi, rent as part of the performance of some illocu-t i ,nary act.
llowever, it is ~bvious that speakers can refer by issuingisolated noun phra,:e or prepositional phrases.
Since speakers per-formed il loculi,mary acts iu making these utterances, then, accordingto Condit i .ns 2 and 3, tl'ere should be an act of predication, eitherin the sentence .
r  the "similar stretch of discourse".
For example,consider the f .
l !
,wing dial,,gue fragment:1.
"Now, the small blue cap we talked about before?"'2.
"l~'h-h u h",3.
"Put that over the hole Oil the side of thai  tube .
.
.
"The i l locutlonary ar t  performed by uttering phrase ( i t  is finishedand responded to in phrase (2} before the i l locutionary act performedin phrase (3) containing the predication "put" is performed.
The ap-peal to a sentence or stretch of discourse in which to find the illocu-t iouary act containing tile proposit ional act in (1) is therefore is un-convincing.
The cause of this inadequacy is that,  according to Searle,to perform an i l l .eutionary act, an act of predicating is required, andthe predicate must be uttered (Ibid, pp.
1k26.-127~.
llence, there is noappeal to context to supply t,bvious predications.
Likewise, there isno room for context to supply an obvi~ms focus of attention.
Unfortu-nately, we can easily imagiue cases in which an object is mutually, butnonlinguistically, bcused upon {e.g., when Ilolmes, having come upona body on the ground, listens for a heartbeat,  and says to Watson:"Dead").
In snch a case, we need only l)redicate.
Thus, the require-ment that the act of reference b~" j~,intly located with some predicationin a sentence or ilh~cutiuuary act is t~o restrictive - -  the 9oals involvedwith reference and predication can be satisfied separately and contex-tually.
The point of this paper is to bring such goals to the fore.3.2.
Referring without a Propositional ActTile second pr(llqi'ni is that Inost of tile separate utterances i suedto secure reference were declarative sentences whose logical form was3 z P(z).
For example, "there is a little yellow piece of rubber" ,  and"it's got a plug in it".
However, Searle claims that  these utterancescontain no referring act.
(lbid, p.
29.)
flow then can speakers usethem to refer?The answer inwdves an analysis of indirect speech acts.
Althoughsuch declarative utterances can be issued just to be informative, theyare also issued as requests that the hearer identify the referent.
: Theanalysis of these utterances as requests depends on our positing anaction of referent identification.4.
I dent i f i ca t ion  as a Requested  Act ionIn Searle's account, speakers identify referents for hearers.
!
re-vise this notion slightly and treat identification as an act performedby the hearer 131 .
I use the term "identify" in a very.
narrow, thoughimportant and basi-, sense - -  one that intimately involves perception.Thus, the analysis is not intended to be general; it applies only tothe case when the referents are perceptually accessible to the hearer,and when the hearer is intended to use perceptual means to pick themout.
For the time b~'iug.
I am explicitly not concerned with a hearer'smentally "identifying" some entity satisfying a description, or discov-ering a coreferring descripticm.
Th ,  perceptual use of "identification"would appear to be a ~pe('ial case of .%arb"s use of the term, and thusSearle's condition,s h,.uhl apply to, it.Referent identifica~:ion i this perceptual sense requires an agentand a description.
The essence of the act is that the agent pick outthe th ingor th!n f f s  satisfying the description.
The agent need not'2The classification of these utterances a identification requests was done by twocoders who were trained by the author, but who worked independently.
Thereliability of their ?odings were high - -  over 90 per cent for such existential~tatements.be the speaker of the description, and indeed, the description neednot be communicated linguistically, or even conlmunicated at all.
Acrucial component of referent identification is the act of perceptuallysearching for something that  satisfies the description.
The descriptionis decomposed by the agent into a plan of action for identifying thereferent.
The intended and expected physical, sensory, and cognitiveactions may be signalled by tile speaker's choice of predicates.
Forexample, a speaker uttering the phrase "the magnetic screwdriver",may intend for the hearer to place various screwdrivers against somepiece of iron to determine which is magnetic.
Speakers know thathearers map (at least some) predicates, onto actions that determinetheir extensions, and thus, using a model of the heater's capabilitiesand the causal connections among people, their senses, and physicalobjects, design their expression, D, so that  hearers can successfullyexecute those actions in the context of the overall plan.Not only does a speaker plan for a hearer to identify the referentof a description, but he often indicates his intention that  the hearerdo so.
According to Searle, one possible way to do this is to use adefinite determiner.
Of course, not all definite NP's  are used to refer:for example, in the sentence "the last piece is the nozzle',  the referentof the first NP is intended to be identified, whereas the referent of thesecond NP is not.
The attr ibut ive use of definite noun phrases \[6\] is acase in which the speaker has no intention that  the hearer identify areferent.
Yet other nonanaphoric u~es of definite noun phrases includelabeling an object, correcting a referential miscommunicatiou, havingthe hearer wait while the speaker identifies the referent, etc.
'~To respond appropriately, a hearer decide~ when identi\[icatiou isthe act he is supposed to perform on a description, what part this act "will play in the speaker's and hearer's plan~, and how aud when toperform the act.
If perceptual ly identifying a feb'rent L~ representedas an action in the speaker's plan, hearers can reas,,u ab<,ut it just asany other act.
thereby allowing them to infer the speaker's iat;'ntionsbehind indirect identification re.quests.In snmmary, referent identification shall mean l.lie conducting =,fa perceptual search process for the referent <,f a description.
Tile verb"pick out" should be taken as synonymous.The following is a sketchy definition of tlw ceil,rent identificationaction, in which the description is formed fr~mi "a / lh ,  ?
y such thatD(y)".
43 X \ [PERCEPTUALLY-ACCESSIBLE(X .
Agt )  &D(X) &IDENTIF IADLE(Agt ,  D)DRESULT(Agt ,IDENTIFY -REFERENT{Agt .
D).IDENTIF IED-  REF  E I'HDNT(Agt.
D. X)IThe formula follows the usual axi,ml;ttizati,m of acti,)n~ in dy-namic logic: P D fAct\]Q; that is, if P, aft,'r d .
iug  Act.
Q.
\["..ll.,'*ingMoore's \[9\] possible worlds semantics for actbJn, tit," nv,,,lal operau,rRESULT is taken to be true of an agent, an act i .n ,  an,I a formula,iff in the world resulting from the agent's perf,~rmfltg that actitm, tl,eformula is true.
sThe antecedent includes three conditions.
The first is a -per-3See also {15, IO\] for discu-:~ion of sl)~,akors' goal~ toward~ th,.
irC~r i r,.,a'i,,n ofdescriptions.4Thls definition is not particularly ilhlullnating, t ut it is ng!.
;lily ,:a'.
:u,.r thzaSearle's.
The point of giving it is that if a definition can be given in this form(i.e., as an action characterizable in a dynamic logic), the illocuti~nary analysisapplies.SActually, Moore characterizes R.ESULT as taking an event and a fornmla asarguments, and an agent's doing an action denotes an event.
This di~ereace isnot critical for what follows.208ceptual accessibility" condition to guarantee that the IDENTIFY -REFERENT action is applicable.
This should guarantee that, forexample, a speaker does not intend someone to pick out the referent of"3 ~, "democracy", or "the first man to land on Mars ~.
The conditionis satisfied in the experimental task since it rapidly becomes mutualknowledge that the task requires communication about the objects infront of the hearer.The second condition states that X fulfills the description D.Here, 1 am ignoring cases in which the description is not literally trueof the intended referent, including metonymy, irony, and the like (butsee \[12\]).
Lastly, D should be a description that is identifiable to thisparticular Agt .
It should use descriptors whose extension the agentalready knows or can discover via action.
I am assuming that we canknow that a combination of descriptors is identifiable without havingformed a plan for identifying the referent.To give a name to the state of knowledge we are in afterhaving identified the referent of D, we will use { IDENTIF IED-REFERENT Agt  D X).
That is, Agt  has identified the referentof D to be X.
Of course, what has been notoriously difficult to specifyis just what Agt  has to know about X to say he has identified it asthe reforent of D. At a minimum, the notion of identification eeds tobe made relative to a purpose, which, perhaps, could be derived fromthe bodily acti .ns that someone (in the context} is intended to per-form upon X.
Clearly, "knowing who the D is" 18, 9\], is no substitutefor having identified a referent.
After having picked out the referentof a doseription D, we may still not not know who the D is.
On theother hand, we may know who or what the description denotes, forexample, hy knowing ~ome "standard name" for it, and yet be unableto use that kn.wledge to pick out the object.
For example, if we ask"Which is tho Seattle train?"
and receive the reply "It's train number11689", we may ~till not be able to pick out and board the train if itsserial number is not plainly in view.Finally, athough not stated in this definition, the means by whichthe act is performed is some function mapping D to some procedurethat, when executed by Agt ,  enables Agt  to discover the X that isthe referent of D.4 .1 .
Request ingCon.~ider what it takes to make a request.
Hector Levesque and I\[4, 5\] argu~, that requests and other illocutionary acts can be definedin terms of interacting plans - -  i.e., as beliefs about the conversants'shared knowledge of the speaker's goals and the causal consequencesof achieving those goals.
In this formalism, illocutionacy acts are nolonger conceptually primitive, but rather amount o theorems that canbe proven about a state of affairs.
The proof requires an axiomatiza-tion of agents' beliefs, expectations, goals, plans, actions, and a cur*relation of utterance mood with certain propositional attitudes.
Theimportant point here is that the definition of a request is not merelystipulated, but is derived from an independently motivated theory ofaction.
Any act that brings about the right effects in the right waysatisfies the request heorem.Briefly, a request is an action (or collection of actions) that makesit ( 1 ) shared knowledge that the speaker's goal is that the hearer thinksthe speaker wants the hearer to adopt the goal of doing a particularact, thereby making it (2) shared knowledge between the speaker andhearer that the speaker wants the hearer to do that act.
This inferencerequires an additional "gating" condition that it be shared knowledgethat the speaker is both sincere and can perform the requested act(i.e., he knows how, and the preconditions of that act are true).The processing of an utterance is assumed to begin by applyingthe propositional att i tude correlated with its mood to the proposi-tional content associated with its literal interpretation.
Thus, corre-lated with imperatives and interrogatives is the att itude above {corre-spending to goal (I)): 6(MUTUAL-BEL IEF  Hearer  Speaker(GOAL Speaker(BEL Hearer(GOAL Speaker(GOAL Hearer(DONE Hearer  Act  P ) ) ) ) )}  .
(DONE Hearer  Act  P)  is true if Hearer  has done act Actand has brought about P. For yes/no interrogatives, Ac t  would bean INFORMIF \[11\]; for imperatives, it would be the act mentionedin the sentence.
Declaratives would be correlated with a differentpropositional attitude.
Beginning with the utterance-correlated atti-tudes, a derivation process that constitutes plan-recogniti.n reasoningdetermines what the speaker meant \[7\].
Thus, for example, what thespeaker meant could be classified as a request if the derivation includedmaking (2) true by making the above formula true.An act may simultaneousJy achieve the goals constituting morethan one illocutionary act.
This ability underlies the analysis of indi-rect speech acts.
Formalisms have been developed \[5, 11\] that describewhen we can conclude, from a speaker's wanting the hearer to wantthe precondition of some act to hold, (or wanting the hearer to be-lieve the precondition does hold), that the speaker wants the hearerto adopt the goal of performing the act.
The condit i .ns licensing thisinference are that it be mutually known that the act (or its effect) isan expected goal of the speaker, and that it be mutually known that:the hearer can perform the act.
is cooperative, and does not want notto do it.Returning to the troublesome xistential sentences, this patternof reasoning, which I term the "illoculionary act analysis" {\[AAI, canbe used to derive a request for reh'rent identification.
The reasoning issimilar to that needed to infer a request o open the door on hearinga speaker, with two arm-loads of groceries, say "the door i~ closed".The general form of this reasoning involves the a.~serti.n o!
an action'sprecondition when the effect of the action is an expected goal of thespeaker.
In the case at hand, the speaker's existential assertion causesthe hearer to believe the existential precondition of the referent iden-tification act, since speaker and hearer both think they are talkingabout objects in front of the h~'arer, and because the description isidentifiable.
Ilence, the hearer concludes he is intended to pick out itsreferent.
The hearer may go on to infer that he is intended to performother acts, such as to pick up the object.
This inference process alsoindicates when the indirect request interpretation is not iutended, forexample, if it is mutually known that the description is not identifi-able, or if it is mutually known that the hearer would not want toidentify the referent.I argue that this kind of reasoning underlies the propositional ctaccount.
First, I show that Searle's conditions on referring are a specialcase of the conditions for requesting referent identification.
Then, Ishow that if one extends the definition of IDENTIFY-REFERENTto cover Searle's more general concept of identificatiou, the IAA isapplicable in the same circumstances a~s Searle's analysis.
Because theIAA is independently motivated and covers more cases, it should bepreferred.5.
Account ing for Searle's Condit ions onReferringAssume Searle's Condition 1, the "normal i /O conditions."
Forthe reasons outlined above, do not assume Conditions 2 and 3.
Now,clearly, a speaker's planning of a request that the hearer identify thereferent of some description should comply with the rules for request-ing, namely: the speaker is trying to achieve one of the effects of theCThe justification for this formula can be found in \[5\].209requested action (i.e., IDENTIF IED-REFERENT} by way of commu-nicating (in the (;ricean sense) his intent that the hearer perform theaction, provided that it is shared knowledge that the hearer can dothe act i .n.
The last condition is true if it is shared knowledge that  thethe prec.ndi l i .n  to the action hohts, which includes Seacle's existen-tial Condition 4.
Scarle's Condition 5 states that  the speaker intendsto identify Ihe referent o the hearer.
This condition is captured inthe IAA by its bee.ruing umtual knowledge that the speaker intendsto achieve the effect of the referent identification act, IDENTIFIED-IH'H"I';RENT.
Finally, Searle's Gricean intent recognition Condition\[G) takes h-ld in the same way that it does for other i l locutionaryacts.
namely in virtue of a "feature" of the utterance (e.g., utter-ance mood, or a definite determiner} that  is correlated with a complexprop.sit ional  att itude.
This att i tude becomes the basis for subsequentreasoning about the speaker's plans.
In summary,  Searle's conditionscan be acconnted for by simply posit ing an action that  the speakerrequests aml that the hearer easons about  and performs.So far, the IAA and PAA are complementary.
They each accountfor different aspects of referring.
The IAA characterizes utteranceswho~e sole p .
rpose is to secure referent identification, and the PAAcharacterizes the use of referring phrases within an i l locutionary act.I now precede to show how the IAA can subsume the PAA.Searle argues that tree use of the definite article in utter ing anNP is to indicate the speaker's intention to refer uniquely.
Moreover,from Condition 5, this intention is supposed to be recognized by thehearer.
We can get this effect by correlating the following expressionwith the delinite determiner:A D \ [ (MUTUAL-BEL IEF  Hearer  Speaker(GOAL Speaker(BEL  Hearer3 !
X (GOAL Speaker(GOAL Hearer(DONE HearerIDENTIFY-REFERENT(Hearer, D),IDENTIFIED-REFERENT(Hearer, D, X))))))\]Think - f  tiffs expression as being a pragmatic  "feature" of a syn-tactic constituent, as in current linguistic formalisms.
When this ex-pression is applied to a descriptor (supplied from the semantics of theNP} we have a complete formula that becomes the seed for derivinga request.
Namely, if it is mutual ly believed the speaker is sincere, 7then it is mutually believed there is a unique object that  speaker wantsthe hearer to want to pick out.
If it is mutual ly believed the hearercan do it {i.e.. the prec~mditions to the referent identification act hold,and the hearer kn.ws how to do it by decomposing the descriptioninto a plan c~f action), it is mutual ly believed of some object that thespeaker's goal is that the hearer actual ly pick it out.
llence, a request.
* Thus.
for the perceptual ease, the IAA subsumes the PAA.5.1.
Extending the Analys isAssume that instead of just considering the act of identificationin its perceptual sense, we adopt Searle's concept - -  namely that  *...there should no longer be any doubt what  exactly is being talkedabout."
Identification in this sense is primari ly a process of establish-ing a coreferential link between the description in question and someother whose referent is in some way known to the hearer.
However,we again regard identification as an act that the hearer performs, notsomething the speaker does to/ for  a hearer.
If an analysis of this"rSincerity can be dispensed with at no significant loss of generalitySThat is, I am suggesting that the interpretation f how the speaker intends thenoun phrase to be interpreted le.g., referentially, attributively, etc.}
begins withsuch a propositional ttitude.
If the referential reading is unsuccessful, the hearerneeds to make other inferences to derive the intended reading.extended notion can be made similar in form to the analysis of theperceptual identification act, then the IAA completely subsumes thePAA.
Because both accounts are equally vague on what constitutesidentification (as are, for that matter ,  all other accounts of which \[am aware), the choice between them must rest on other grounds.
Thegrounds favoring the identification request analysis include the use ofseparate utterances and i l locutionary acts for referring, and the inde-pendently motivated satisfaction of Searle's conditions on referring.5.2.
Sear le  vs. Russel lUsing the propositional ct of referring.
Searle argues against Rus-sews \[13\] theory of descriptions, which holds that  the uttering of anexpression "the ~" is equivalent o the assertion of an uniquely exis-tential proposit ion ~there is a unique ~b".
Thus, when reference fails,it is because the uniquely existential proposit ion is nc, t true.
Searleclaims instead that  the existence of the referent is a precondition tothe action of referring.
In referring to X, we do not a~ssert that X existsany more than we do in hitt ing X (lbid, p.
1G0.)
However, the pre-condition is necessary for successful performance.
Searle's argumentagainst his theory essentially comes down to:.
.
.
It \[Russell's theory\] presents the proposit ional act ofdefinite reference, when performed with definite descrip-tions .
.
.
as equivalent o the i l locutionary act of assert-ing a uniquely existential proposition, and there is nocoherent way to integrate such a theory into a theory ofi l locutionary acts.
Under no condition is a prol.J:~itionalact identical with the i l locntionary act of assert i .n,  fora.
propositional act can only occur as part  of s, uuc illo-cut ionary act, never simply by itself (Ibid, p. 15.
IThere are two difficulties with this argument.
First, the require- "ment that  acts of referring be part of an ilk, cut ionary act was shownto be unnecessarily restrictive.
Second, there is a way to assimilatethe assertion of an existential proposit ion - -  an act that  .%arle claimsdoes not contain a referring act - -  into an analysis of i l locutionaryacts, namely as an indirect req,est  fur referent identification.
How-ever, because an assertion of a uniquely existential proposition mayfail to convey an indirect request for referent identification (just asuttering ~It's cold in here" may fail to convey an iuditert request}Searle's argument,  though weakened, still stands.6.
SummaryThere are a number of advantages for treatitq~- refero:lt hh'ntifi-cation as an action that  speakers request, and thus f~Jr treating thespeech act of referring as a request.
The analysis n- t  ,,nly itrc,~tllltSfor data  that  Searle's account can\]tot, but it al.<o predicts each ofSearle's conditions for performing tlw act of slngnlar idei~tifying refer-ence, yet it allows for appropr iate xteushm into a Idaunitlg Impress.
Ifwe extend the perceptual use of referent identification t,~ Searl,.
':~ moregeneral concept of identification, and we correlate a certain {(;ricean)proposit ional att i tude with the use of definite determiners in a nounphrase, then Searle's analysis is subsumed by the act of requestingreferent identification.
The propositional act of referring is thereforeunnecessary.The promissory note introduced by this approach is to showhow the same kind of plan-based reasoning u~ed in analyzing indi-rect speech acts can take hold when a hearer realizes he cann.
t ,  andwas not intended to, identify the referent of a description.
That  is.plan-based reasoning should explain how a hearer might decide thatthe speaker's intention cannot be what it appears to be (based on theintent correlated with the use of a definite determiner),  leading, him, forexample, to decide to treat a description attr ibutively \[6 I. Moreover,such reasoning should be useful in determining intended referents, as210Ortony I10\] has argued.To keep this promise, we need to be specific about speaker-intentions for other uses of noun phrases.
This will be no easy task.One difficulty will be to capture the distinction between achieving ef-fects on a hearer, and doing so communicatively {i.e., in the Griceanway).
Thus, for example, a hearer cannot comply with the illocution-ary force of =Quick, don't think of an elephant* because there seems tobe an "automatic" process of ~concept activation * 11\].
Achieving ef-fects non-communicatively, i.e., without he recognition of intent, maybe central to some kinds of reference.
In such cases, speakers wouldbe able to identify referents for a hearer.
If this held for singular iden-tifying reference, then tlwre could be grounds for a propositional ct.llowever, we might have to give up the Gricean condition (5), which lsuspect Searle would not want to do.Finally, there are obviously many a.~pects of reference that needto be accounted for by any comprehensive theory.
I make no claims{yet) about the utility of the present approach for dealing with them.Rather, 1 hope to have opened the door to a formal pragmatics for oneaspect of referring.7.
References1.
Appelt, D. Planning natural language utterances to satisfy mul-tiple 9oals.
Ph.D.
Th., Stanford University, Stanford, Califor-nia, December 1981.2.
Austin, J. L. How to do things with words.
Oxford UniversityPress, London, 1962.3.
Cohen, P. R. Pragmatics, peaker-reference, and the modalityof communication.
To appear in Computational Linguistics,1984.4.
Cohen, P. R., & Levesque, If.
J.
Speech Acts and the Recog-nition of Shared Plans.
Prec.
of the Third Biennial Confer-ence, Canadian Society for Computational Studies of Intelli-gence, Victoria, B. C., May, 1980, 263-271.5.
Cohen, P. R., & Levesque, 11.
J.
Speech acts as summaries ofshared plans.
In preparation.6.
Donnellan, K. Reference and definite description.
The Philo-sophical Re~Jieu, 7S.
1960, pp.
281-304.7.
Grice, 11.
P. Meaning.
Philosophical Review 66, 1957, pp.
377-388.8.
\]lintikka, J.
Semantics for propositional ttitudes.
In Philo-sophical o#ic, D. Reidel Publishing Co., Dordrecht-Holland,1969.9.
Moore, R. C. Reasoning about knowledge and action.
Techni-cal Note 191, Artificial Intelligence Center, SRI International,October, 1980.10.
Ortony, A.
Some psycholinguistic onstraints on the construc-tion and interpretation of definite descriptions.
Proceedings ofthe Second Conference on Theoretical Issues in Natural Lan-guage Processing, Urbana, Illinois, 1978, 73-78.I 1.
Perrault, C. R., & Allen, J. F. A plan-based analysis of indirectspeech acts.
American Journal of Computational Linguistics 6,3, 1980, pp.
167-182.12.
Perrault, C. R., & Cohen, P. R. It's for your own good: A noteon inaccurate reference.
In Elements of Discourss Understand-ing, Cambridge Irniversity Press, Joshi, A., Sag, I., & Webber,B., {Eds.
, Cambridge, Mass., 1981.)13.
Russell, B.
On denoting.
Mind I4, 1905, pp.
479-492.14.
Searle, J. R. Speech acts: An essay in the philosophy of lan-guage.
Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, 1969.15.
Sidner, C. L. The pragmatics of non-anaphoric noun plzrases.In Research in Knowledge Representation for Natural LanguageUnderstandin#: Annual Report, 9/1/8?-8/81/88, Bolt Beranekand Newman, Inc., , Cambridge, Mass, 1983.16.
Wilkes-Gibbs, D. How todo things with reference: The functionof goals in determining referential choice.
Unpublished ms.211
