MACHINE-READABLE D ICT IONARIES ,  LEX ICAL  DATA BASESAND THE LEX ICAL  SYSTEMNico let ts  Calsolsr iD ipar t imento  dl L ingu|st ica,  Univers i ta  dl Plsa, Pisa, ITALYIst i tuto di L inguist ics Cornputssionsle del CNR,  Piss,  ITALYI should like to raise some issues concerning the conversionfrom a traditional Marhine-Readable Dictionary (MRD) on tapeto a Lexical Data Base (LDB), in order to highlight someimportant consequences for computational linguistics which canfollow from this transition.
The enormous potentialities of theinformation implicitly stored in a standard printed dictionaryor a MRD can only be evidenced and made explicit when thesame data are given a new logical structure in a data basemodel, and exploited by appropriate software.A suitable use of DB methodology is a good starting point todiscover several kinds of lexical, morphological, syntactic, andsemantic relationships between lexieal entries which wouldotherwise have remained unexploited.
Moreover, thetransformation of a "very large-scale" MRD into a LDBprovides the means of operating throughout he lexicon in areally extensive manner.
I think in fact that an "almostexhaustive" approach to lexical facts is essential both forreliable investigations of a lexical system, and for many kinds oflinguistic applications which cannot be restricted to a particulardomain of discourse.The possibility of abstracting significant regularities fromrecurrent patterns of natural language definitions by means ofsuitable computational methods, and of reaching aformalization of a number of important structuring relationswithin the lexicon will be discussed.
An overview of the"associative links" already produced in the Italian LDB, and ofother allowable interconnections will be given.In a "relational" organization of a computerized dictionarywith complex interlinked structures, each word acquires itsmeaning as a result of its position in some of the partitioningscreated by the formalized relations.
When an entry isactivated, all of its relations with other entries can be activated,too.
Conversely, when a relation is activated, all of its linkedconcepts are made immediately available.
Conceptual andlinguistic information at many levels is thus interactivelyretrievable from the LDB following the appropriate pointers.I shall especially take into consideration those types ofrelations which can be of relevance not only for"Computational Lexicology" research, but also in a moregeneral Computational Linguistics framework.
An example isprovided by derivational relationships which, when formalized,give rise to families of semantically and syntactically connectedentries, linked to the same base-word node, and substitutable indifferent syntactic formulations of the same conceptualmeanings.
Another example concerns ease or argumentrelations, both (a) between lexieal items, and (b) governed bylexical items.
From (a) 1 expect o achieve, from the naturallanguage definitions, useful information on the differentlexicalizatons of ease-slot fillers in the case-frames of typicalactions.
In contrast, with (b) I can establish an encoding witheach entry-and often with each word sense-of information onits surface and deep case-argument structure.
The utility of theextensive inclusion of similar information in a LDB whichshould be the input for a lexically driven parser, for machinetranslation, etc., is obvious.As a conclusion, it should be pointed out how a LDB must beconsidered at the crossroad between texts and system, and inthis perspective some essential properties of a LDB must bestressed.
A first property is "multifunctionalism"; it isconnected to the role of interfaces to the LDB.
We must tendtowards creating 'a single' integrated system which, throughmany different interfaces, can be adopted for all the range ofpossible applications, and by all the possible users, where usermeans both a human user and a computer program.
Anotherimportant property is that of being "multi-perspective."
Thisproperty of multiple access can create something like aconstellation of sublexicons, which altogether capture the manypossible structures which can be observed in the lexical system,along many dimensions of relatedness.
The mediating functionof a LDB between system and texts can thus be considered asthe mapping of lexical structures, of many kinds, on linearunstructured texts.460
