WHAT NOT TO SAYJan FornellDepartment of Linguistics & PhoneticsLund UniversityHelgonabacken 12, Lund, SwedenABSTRACTA problem with most text production andlanguage generation systems is that they tend tobecome rather verbose.
This may be due tonegleetion of the pragmatic factors involved incommunication.
In this paper, a text productionsystem, COMMENTATOR, is described and taken as astarting point for a more general discussion ofsome problems in Computational Pragmatics.
A newline of research is suggested, based on theconcept of unification.I COMMENTATORA.
The or ig ina l  modelI.
General purpqseThe original version of Commentator waswritten in BASIC on a small micro computer.
It wasintended as a generator of text (rather than justsentences), but has in fact proved quite useful,in a somewhat more general sense, as a generatorof linguistic problems, and is often thought of asa "linguistic research tool".The idea was to create a model thatworked at all levels, from "raw data" likeperceptions and knowledge, via syntactic, semanticand pragmatic components to coherent text orspeech, in order to be able to study the variouslevels and the interaction between them at thesame time.
This means that the model is verynarrow and "vertical", rather than like most othercomputational models, which are usuallycharacterized by huge databases at a single levelof representation.2.
The modelThe system dynamically describes themovements and locations of a few objects on thecomputer screen.
(In one version: two persons,called Adam and Eve, moving around in a yard witha gate and a tree.
In another version, some shipsoutside a harbour).
The comments are presented inSwedish or English in a written and a spokenversion simultaneously (using a VOTRAX speechsynthesis device).
No real perceptive mechanism(such as a video camera) is included in thesystem, (instead it is fed the successivecoordinates of the moving objects) but otherwiseall the other abovementioned components arepresent, to some extent.For both practical and intuitive reasonsthe system is "pragmatically deterministic" insome sense.
By this I mean that a certain state ofaffairs is investigated only if it might lead toan expressible comment.
For every change of thescene, potentially relevant and commentable topicsare selected f rom a question menu.
If somethingactually has happened (i e a change of state \[I\]has occurred), a syntactic rule is selected andappropriate words and phrases are put in.
A choiceis made between pronouns and other nounphrases,depending on the previous sentences.
If a changeof focus has occurred, contrastive stress is addedto the new focus.
Some "discourse connectives"like ocks~ (also/too) and heller (neither) arealso added.
There are apparently some more or lessobligatory contexts for this, namely when allparts (predicates and arguments) of two sentencesare equal except for one.
For example"Adam is approaching the gate.
""Eve is also approaching it.
"(predicates equal, but subjects different)"John hit Mary.
""He kicked her too.
"(subjects and objects equal, but differentpredicates), etc.
Stating the respective secondsentences of the examples above without thealso/too sounds highly unnatural.
This is howeveronly part of the truth (see below).Note that all selections of relevanttopics and syntactic forms are made at an abstractlevel.
Once words have begun being inserted, thesentence will be expressed, and it is never thecase that a sentence is constructed, but notexpressed.
Neither are words first put in, andthen deleted.
This is in contrast with many othertext production systems, where a range ofsentences are constructed, and then compared tofind the "best" way of expressing the proposition.That might be a possible approach when writing a(single) text, such as an instruction manual, or apaper like this, but it seems unsuitable fordynamic text production in a changing environmentlike Commentator's.348B.
A new modelA new version is currently beinginplemented in Prolog on a VAX11/730, avoidingmany of the drawbacks and limitations of the BASICmodel.
It is highly modular, and can easily beexpanded in any given direction.
It does not yetinclude any speech synthesis mechanism, but plansare being made to connect the system to the quitesophisticated ILS program package available at thedepartment of linguistics.
On the other hand, itdoes include some interactive components, and somefacilities for (simple) machine translation withinthe specified domains, using Prolog as anintermediary level of representation.The major aim, however, is not tore-implement a slightly more sophisticated versionof the original Commentator, which is basically amonologue generator, but instead to develop a new,highly interactive model, nick-named CONVERSATOR,in order to study the properties of humandiscourse.
What will be described in thefollowing, is mostly the original Commentator,though.II COMPUTATIONAL PRAGMATICSA.
Relevance StrateGies in CommentatorThe previous presentation of Commentatorof course raises some questions, such as "What isa relevant topic?"
It is a well known fact, thatfor most text production systems it is a majorproblem to reatriet the computer output - to getthe computer to shut up, as it were, and avoidstating the obvious.
In many cases this problem isnot solved at all, and the system goes on tobecome quite verbose.
On the other hand,Commentator was developed with this in mind.I.
Chan~esA major strategy has been to onlycomment on changes \[2\].
Thus, for example, ifCommentator notes that the object called Adam isapproaching the object called the gate (whereapproach is defined as something like "moving inthe direction of the goal, with diminishingdistance" - this is not obvious, but perhaps aproblem of pattern recognition rather thansemantics), the system will say something like(I) "Adam is approaching the gate".Then, if in the next few scenes he's stillapproaching the gate, nothing more need to be saidabout it.
Only when something new happens, acomment will be generated, such as if Adam reachesthe gate, which is what one might expect him to dosooner or later, if (I) is to be at allappropriate.
Or if Adam suddenly reverses hisdirection, a slightly more drastic comment mightbe generated, such as(2) "Now he's moving away from it".Note however, that the Commentator canonly observe Adam's behaviour and make guessesabout his intentions.
Since he is not Adamhimself, he can never know what Adam's realintentions are.
He can never say what Adam is infact doing, only what he thinks Adam is doing, andany presuppositions or impllcatures conveyed areonly those of his beliefs.
Thus, uttering (I)somehow implicates that the Commentator believesthat Adam is approaching the gate in order toreach it, but not that Adam is in fact doing so.This might be quite important.2.
NearnessAnother criterion for relevance isnearness.
It seems reasonable to talk aboutobjects in relation to other objects close by \[3\],rather than to objects further away.
For instance,if Adam is close to the gate, but the tree is onthe other side of the yard, it would probably makemore sense to say (3) than (4), even though theymay be equally true.
(3) Adam is approaching the gate.
(4) Adam is moving away from the tree.All of this, of course, presupposes thatit is sensible to talk about these things at all,and this is not obvious.
What is a text generationsystem supposed to do, really?B.
Why talk?Expert systems require some kind of textgeneration module to be able to present output ina comprehensible way.
This means that the input tothe system (some set of data) is fairlywell-known, as well as the desired format of theoutput.
But this means that the quality of theoutput can only be measured against how well itmeets the pre-determined standards.
There isobviously much more to human communication thanthat.
I believe that the serious limitations andunnaturalness of existing text generation systems(whether they are included in an expert system ornot.
There aren't really many of the latter type.
)cannot be overcome, unless a certain importantquestion is ~sked, namely "Why ever say anythingat all?
"Two different dimensions can berecognized.
One is prompted vs spontaneous speech,and the other is the informative content.At one end of  the information scale ista lk  that contains almost no information at a l l ,such as most ta lk  about the weather.
This isusually a very r i tua l i zed  behaviour \[4\],  and isquite d i f fe rent  from the exchange of  data, whichcharacterizes most interactions with computers andwould be the other end of the scale.349Aside from the abovementioned kind ofsocial interaction, it seems that one talks whenone is in possession of some information, andbelieves that the listener-to-be is interested inthis information.
The most obvious case is when aquestion has been asked, or the speaker otherwisehas been prompted.
In fact, this is the only casethat text generation systems ever seem to takecare of.
Expert systems speak only when spoken to.The Commentator is made to talk about what'shappening, assuming that someone is listening, andinterested in what it says.
But for a conversatingsystem this is not enough.
The properties ofspontaneous speech has to be investigated, inorder to address questions like "When does onevolunteer information?
", '\[When does one initiate aconversation?"
and "When does one change topic?
"It will involve quite a lot of knowledge about thepotential listener and the world in general, whichmight be extremely hard to implement, but which Ibelieve is necessary anyway, for other reasons aswell (see below).C.
Natural Language-Understandin~It has been pointed out (Green (1983),and references cited therein) that "communicationis not usefully thought of as a matter of decodingsomeone's encryption of their thoughts, but isbetter considered as a matter of guessing at whatsomeone has in mind, on the basis of cluesafforded by the way that person says what s/hesays".
Still, much work in linguistics relies onthe assumption that the meaning of a sentence canbe identified with its truth-conditions, and thatit can somehow be calculated from the meaning ofits parts \[5\], where the meanings of the wordsthemselves usually is left entirely untreated.
Butagain, this is a far cry from what a speaker canbe said to mean by uttering a sentence \[6\].While some interesting work has beendone trying to recognize Gricean conventionalimplicatures and presuppositions in acomputational, model-theoretical framework (Gunji,1981), the particularized conversationalimplicatures were left aside, and for a goodreason too.
With the kind of approaches usedhitherto, they seem entirely untreatable.Instead, I would say that understandinglanguage is very much a creative ability.
Tounderstand what someone means by uttering somesentence, is to construct a context where theutterance fits in.
This involves not only thelinguistic context (what has been said before) andthe extra-linguistic context (the speechsituation), but also the listener's knowledgeabout the speaker and the world in general.
Italso involves recognizing that every utterance ismade for a purpose.
The speaker says what s/hedoes rather than something else.
The used mode ofexpression (e g syntactic construction) wasselected, rather than some uther.
In this sense,what is not said is as important as what isactually said.
Note that I said "a context" ratherthan "the context": one can do no more than guesswhat the speaker had in mind, since it strictly isimpossible to know.D.
Text Generation RevisitedA text generation system would also needthe same kind of creative ability, in order tohave some conception of how the listener willinterpret the message.
This will of course affecthow the message is put forward.
One does not saywhat one believes the listener already knows, oris uninterested in, and on the other hand, onedoes not use words or syntactic constructions thatone believes the listener is unfamiliar with.Since speakers generally will tend to avoidstating the obvious, and at the same time say asmuch as possible with as few words as possible,conversational implicatures will be the rule,rather than the exception.For example, using words like "too" and"also" means that the current sentence is to beconnected to something previous.
Only in a few,very obvious cases (such as the Commentatorexamples above) will the "previous" sentenceactually have been stated.
In most cases, thespeaker will rely on the listener's ability toconstruct that sentence (or rather context) forhimself.III CONCLUSIONSDoes this paint too grim a picture ofthe future for text generation and naturallanguage understanding systems?
I don't think so.I have just wanted to point out that unless quitea lot of information about the world is included,and a suitable Context Creating Mechanism isconstructed, these systems will never rise abovethe phrase-book level, and any questions of"naturalness" will be more or less irrelevant,since what is discussed is something highlyartificial, namely a "speaker" with the grammarand dictionary of an adult, but no knowledge ofthe world whatsoever.How is this Creative Mechanism supposedto work?
Well, that is the question that I intendto explore.
The concept of unification seems verypromising \[7\].
Unification is currently used inseveral syntactic theories for the handling offeatures, but I can see no reason why it shouldn'tbe useful in handling semantics, discoursestructure and the connections with world-knowledgeas well.
Any suggestions would be greatlyappreciated.350NOTES\[I\] In this sense, something like "X isapproaching Y" is as much a state as "X is infront of Y".\[2\] This is apart from an initial description ofthe scene for a listener who can't see it forhimself, or is otherwise unfamiliar with it.
Cf aradio sports eolmantator, who would hardly descibewhat a tennis court looks like, or the generalrules of the game, but will probably say somethingabout who is playing, the weather and otherconditions, etc.\[3\] Though closeness is of course not just aphysical property.
Two people in love might besaid to be very close, even though they arephysically far apart.
This is something, however,that the Commentator would have to know, sinceit's usually not immediately observable.\[4\] For instance, if someone says "Nice weathertoday, isn't it?
", you're supposed to answer "Yes"no matter what you really think about the weather.Not much information can be said to be exchanged.\[5\] This is of course valuable in the sense thatit says that "John hit Bill" means that somebodycalled John did something called hittin K tosomebody called Bill, rather than vice versa.\[6\] And, importantly, it is the speaker who meanssomething, and not the words used.\[7\] Unification is an operation a bit like puttingtogether two pieces of a jigsaw puzzle.
They canbe fitted together (unified) if they havesomething in common (some edge), and are then, forall practieal purposes, moved around as a single,slightly larger piece.
For an excellentintroduction to unification and its linguisticapplications see Karttunen (1984).
Unification isalso very much at the heart of Prolog,REFERENCESFornell,Jan (1983): "Commentator - ettmikrodatorbaserat forskningsredskap forllngvister", Praktisk llngvistlk 8, Dept ofLinguistics, Lund University.Green, Georgia M. (1983): Some Remarks on flowWords Mean, Indiana University LinguisticsClub, Bloomington, Indiana.Gunjl, Takao (1981): Toward a ComputationalTheory of Pragmaties, Indiana UniversityLingulsties Club, Bloomington, Indiana.Karttunen, Lauri (1984): "Features and Values", inthis volume?Sigurd, Bengt (1983): "Commentator: A ComputerModel of Verbal Production", Linguistiea20-9/10.351
