APPLICATIONS OF A LEXICOGRAPHICAL DATA BASE FOR GERMANWolfgang TeubertInstitut f~r deutsche SpracheFr iedr ich-Kar l -Str .
126800 Mannheim i, West GermanyABSTRACTThe Institut fHr deutsche Spracherecently has begun sett ing up aLExicographica l  DAta Base for German(LEDA).
This data base is designed toimprove ef f ic iency in the col lection,analysis, order ing and descr ipt ion oflanguage mater ia l  by faci l i tat ing accessto textual samples within corpora and toword art ic les,  within machine readabledict ionar ies and by provid ing a frame tostore results of lexicographical  researchfor further processing.
LEDA thus consistsof the three components Tezt Bank,Diationary Bank and ResuZt Bank andserves as a tool to suppport monol ingualGerman dict ionary projects at theInstitute and elsewhere.I INTRODUCTORY REMARKSSince the foundation of the InstitutfHr deutsche Sprache in 1964, its researchhas been based on empir ical  findings;samples of language produced in spoken orwr i t ten from were the main basis.
Tohandle ef f ic ient ly  large quant i t ies oftexts to be researched it was necessary touse a computer, to assemble machinereadable corpora and to develop programsfor corpus analysis.
An outl ine of thecomputat ional  act iv i t ies of the Instituteis given in LDV-Info (1981 ff); the basiccorpora are descr ibed in Teubert (1982).The present main frame computer, which wasinstal led in January 1983, is a Siemens7.536 with a core storage of 2 megabytes,a number of tape and disc decks and at themoment 15 visual display units forinteract ive use.Whereas in former years most jobswere carr ied out in batch, the terminalsnow make it possible for the l inguist towork interact ively with the computer.
Itwas therefore a logical step to deviseLexicographical  Data Base for German(LEDA) as a tool for the compi lat ion ofnew dict ionaries.
The ideology ofinteract ive use demands a di f ferentconcept of programming where thelexicographer himself can choose from themenu of alternat ives of fered by the systemand fix his own search parameters.
Work onthe Lex icographica l  Data Base was begun in1981; a f irst vers ion incorporat ing allthree components is p lanned to be.
readyfor use in 1986.What is the goal of LEDA?
In anylex icographica l  project, once the conceptfor the new dict ionary has beenestabl ished, there are three major taskswhere the computer can be employed:(i) For each lemma, textual sampleshave to be determined in the corpus whichis the l inguist ic  base of the dict ionary.The text corpus and the programs to beappl ied to it wil l  form one component ofLEDA, namely the Text Bank.
(ii) For each lemma, the lexico-grapher wil l  want to compare corpussamples with the respect ive word art ic lesof exist ing relevant dict ionaries.
Foreasy access, these dict ionar ies should bet ransformed into a machine readable corpusof integrated word articles.
Word corpusand the perta in ing retr ieval  programs wil lform the second component, i.e.
theDict ionary Bank.
(iii) Once the formal structure ofthe word art ic les in the new dict ionaryhas been establ ished, descr ipt ion of thelemmata within to the framework of thisstructure can be begun.
A data base systemwill  provide this frame so that homogenousand interre lated descr ipt ions can becarr ied out by each member of thedict ionary team at all stages of thecompi lat ion.
This component of LEDA wecall the Result  Bank.II TEXT BANKEach dict ionary project  should makeuse of a text corpus assembled to thespecif ic requirements of the part icu larlex icographical  goal.
As sel f -evident asthis c la im seems to be, it is nonethelesstrue for most German monol inguald ict ionar ies on the market that they havebeen compi led without any corpus; this isapparent ly  even the case for the new sixvolume BROCKHAUS-WAHRIG,  as has beenpointed out by Wiegand/Kucera  (1981 and1982).
For a general  d ict ionary of34contemporary German containing about200 000 lemmata, the Homburger Thesen(1978) asked for a corpus of not less than50 mi l l ion words (tokens).To be used in the text bank, corporawill have to conform to the specialcodi f icat ion or pre-edit ing requirementsdemanded by the interactive query system.At present, a number of machine readablecorpora in unif ied codif icat ion areavailable at the Institute, including theMannheim corpora of contemporary writtenlanguage, the Freiburg corpus of spokenlanguage and the East/West Germannewspaper corpus, total l ing altogetherabout 7 mil l ion running words of text.Further corpora habe been taken over fromother research institutions, publ ishinghouses and other sources.
These texts hadbeen coded in all k inds  of differentconventions, and programs had to (andstill have to) be develQped to transformthem according to the Mannheim codingrules.
Other texts to be included in thecorpus of the text bank will be recordedby OCR, via terminal or by use of anoptical scanner, if they are not avai lableon machine readable data carriers.
By theend of 1985 texts of a total length of 20mil l ion words will be available from whichany dict ionary project can make its ownselection.A special query system cal led REFERhas been developed and is still beingimproved.
For a detai led descript ion ofit, see Br~ckner (1982) and (1984).
Thepurpose of this system is to ensure quickaccess to the data of the text bank, thusenabl ing the lexicographer to use thecorpus interact ively via the terminal.Unlike other query programs, REFER doesnot search a word form (or a combinant ionof graphemes) in the corpus itself, but inregisters containing all the word forms.One register is arranged in the usualalphabetical  way, the other is organizedin reverse or a tergo to al low a searchfor suffixes or the terminal elements ofcompounds.
All word forms in the registersare connected with the references to theiractual occurrence in the corpus, which arethen looked up directly.
With REFER, itnormally takes no more than three to fiveseconds for the search procedure to becompleted, and all occurrences of the wordform within an arbitrar i ly chosen contextcan be viewed on the screen.
Responsebehaviour does not depend on the size ofthe text bank.In addition, REFERfol lowing options:features the- The lexicographer can search for a wordform, for word forms beginning or endingwith a specif ied string of graphemes orfor word forms containing a speci f iedstring of graphemes at any place.- The lexicographer can search for anycombinat ion of word forms and/orgraphemic  strings to occur within asingle sentence of the corpus.- REFER is connected with a morphologicalgenerator supplying all inf lected formsfor the basic form, e.g.
the inf init ive(cf.
fahren (inf.)
--- fahre, f~hrst,fahrt, f-~rt, fuhr, fuhren, fuhrst,f~hre, f ~ ,  f -~st ,  9efahren).-?--~swill make it much easler for thelexicographer to state his query.- For all word forms, REFER will provideinformation on the relat ive and absolutefrequency and the distr ibut ion over thetexts of the corpus.- The lexicographer hat a choice ofoptions for the output.
He can view thesearch item in the context of a fullsentence, in the context of any numberof sentences or in the form of aKWIC-Index, both on the screen and inprint.- For each search procedure, the l inguistcan define his own subcorpus from thecomplete corpus.- Lemmatized registers are in preparation.They will be produced automatical lyusing a complete dict ionary of wordforms with their morphologicaldescriptions.
These lemmatized registersnot only reduce the search time, butalso give the accurate frequency of alemma, not just a word form, in thecorpus.- Register of word classes andmorphological  descr ipt ions (e.g.
l ist ingreferences of all past part ic iples) willbe produced automatical ly  by invert ingthe lemmatized registers.
Thus thel inguist can search for relevantgrammatical  constructions, like all verbcomplexes in the passive voice.- Another feature will permit searchingfor an element at a predeterminedsentence position, l ike all f inite verbsas the first words of a sentence or allnouns preceded by two adjectives.Thus the text bank is a tool for thelexicographer to gain information of thefol lowing kind:- Which word forms of a lemma are found inthe corpus?
Are there spel l ing orinf lect ional  var iat ions?- In which meanings and syntacticalconstruct ions is the lemma employed?- What col locat ions are there?
Whatcompounds is the lemma part of?- Is there evidence for idiomatic andphraseological  usuage?- What is the relat ive and absolutefrequency of the lemma?
Is there acharacter ist ic  d istr ibut ion overdif ferent text types?- Which samples can best be used todemonstrate the meanings of the lemma?35Prel iminary versions of the text bankare in use since 1982.
Not onlylexicographers but also grammarians employthis interact ive system to gain thetextual samples they need.
A steadi lygrowing number of service demands bothfrom members of the Institute and froml inguists at other inst i tut ions are beingful f i l led by the text bank.I I I  D ICT IONARY BANKIf access to the textual samples of acorpus is an indisputable prerequis i te  forsuccessful  d ict ionary compilat ion,consultat ion of other relevantdict ionar ies can faci l i tate the drawing upof lexical entries.
It is v i r tual lyimpossible to assemble a corpus soextensive and encompassing that it wil lsuff ice to describe the whole vocabularyof a language, even within the l imits ofthe part icular  concept ion of anydict ionary (unless it were a pure corpusdict ionary).
A d ict ionary of contemporarylanguage should not let down its user ifhe is reading a text written in the early19th century though it wil l  contain wordsand meanings of words not found in acorpus of post World War II texts.
Thisholds even more for languages for specialpurposes; they cannot be descr ibed withoutrecurrence to technical  dict ionaries,col lect ions of terminology and thesauri,because the more or less standardizedmeanings cannot be retr ieved from theiroccurrences in texts.According to Nagao et al (1982),"dict ionaries themselves are rich sources,as l inguist ic corpora.
When dict ionarydata is stored in a data base system, thedata can be examined by making crossreferences of various viewpoints.
Thisleads to new discoveries of l inguist icfacts which are almost impossible toachieve in the convent ional  pr intedversions" A dict ionary bank wil ltherefore form one of the components ofthe Lexicographical  Data Base.Since 1979 a team at the BonnInstitut fur Kommunikat ionsforschung undPhonetik is compi l ing a 'cumulative worddata base for German', using ii exist ingmachine readable dict ionar ies of var iouskinds, including dict ionar ies assembledfor Art i f ic ia l  Intel l igence projects,machine translat ion systems and, forcopyright reasons, only two generalspurpose dict ionaries.
Programs have beendeveloped to make up for the di f ferencesin the descr ipt ion of lemmata and topermit automatic cumulation.
For furtherinformation regarding this project, seeHess/Brustkern/Lenders (1983) andBrustkern/Schulze (1983, 1983a).
Thecumulat ive word data base, which is due tobe completed in 1984, wil l  then beimplemented in Mannheim and form the coreof the dict ionary bank of LEDA.In its final version, the dict ionarybank wil l  provide a ful ly integratedcumulat ion of the source dict ionaries,down to the level of lexical entries,including statement of word class andmorphosyntact ica l  information.
A completeintegrat ion within the microstructure ofthe lexical entry, however, seems neitherpossib le nor even desirable.
Automaticuni f icat ion cannot be achieved on thelevel of semantic and pragmaticdescript ion.
Here, the source for eachinformat ion item has to be retr ievable toassist the lex icographer  in the evulation.The dict ionary bank wil l  be avaluable tool not only for thelex icographer but also for the grammarian.Retr ieval  programs wil l  make it possibleto come up with a l ist ing of all verbswith a dative and accusat ive complement,or of all nouns belonging to a part icu larinf lect ional  class.
Since the construct ionof the dict ionary bank and the result bankwil l  be related to each other, every timea new dict ionary has been compi led in theresult  bank, it can be copied into thedict ionary bank, making it a growingsource of lexical knowledge.
Thedict ionary bank can then be used as amaster d ict ionary as def ined by Wolfart(1979), from which der ived pr intedversions for d i f ferent purposes can beproduced.IV RESULT  BANKWhereas text bank and dict ionary banksupply the lex icographer with l inguist icinformation, the result  bank wil l  be emptyat the beginning of a project; it consistsof a set of forms which are the frames forthe word articles.
Into these forms thelexicographer enters the (oftenprel iminary) results of his work, whichwil l  be altered, amended or shortened andinterre lated with other word art ic les(e.g.
via synonymy or antonymy) in thecourse of compilat ion; he copies intothose forms relevant textual samples fromthe text bank and useful  informat ion unitsfrom the d ict ionary bank.Access via terminal is not onlypossible to any file represent ing a wordarticle but also to any recordrepresent ing a category of expl icat ion.The result bank, which can be constructedwithin the framework of any standard database management system, thus permitsconsul tat ion and comparison on any levelof lexical descript ion.
Descr ipt iveuni formity in the morphosyntact ica lcategories seems easy enough.
But as hasbeen shown in a number of studies, e.g.
byMugdan (1984), most exist ing d ict ionar ies36abound in discrepancies and inaccuracieswhich easi ly can be avoided bycross-checking within the result bank.More diff icult  is homogeneity in thesemantic descript ion of the vocabulary,representing a partly hierarchical,  ~art lyassociative net of conceptual relations.The words used in semantic expl icat ionsmust be used only in the same sense orsenses in which they are defined undertheir respective heard words.
These taskscan be carried out easier within a database system.
Furthermore, the result bankwill support col lecting and comparing therelated elements of groups such us:- all verbs with the same sentencepatterns- all adjectives used predicat ively only- all nouns denoting tools- all words rated as obsolete- the vocabulary of automobileengineering.Files will differ from word class toword class, as part ic les or adverbs cannotbe describend within the same cluster ofcategories as nouns or verbs.
Similari ly,macrostructure and microstructure will notbe the same for any two dictionaries.Still Categories should be defined in sucha way that the final version of thedict ionary can be copied into thedict ionary bank without addit ional manualwork.After the dict ionary has beencompiled, it can be used as copy, usingstandard editing programs to produce thepr inted version directly from the resultbank.
At that level, strict formatting isno longer necessary and should beabandoned, whereever possible, in favourto economy of space.Work on the result bank will begin inautumn 1984.
The pilot version of it willbe applied to the current main dict ionaryproject of the Institute, i. e. the"Manual of Hard Words", which at presentis still in its planning stage.
Even inits initial version, however, LEDA will beaccessible and applicable for otherlexicographical  projects as well.REFERENCESTobias Br~ckner.
Programm Dokumentat ionRefer Version i. LDV-Info 2.Informationsschri f t  der Arbeitsstel leL inguist ische Datenverarbeitung.Mannheim: Institut fur deutscheSprache, 1982, pp.
1-26.Tobias Br~ckner.
Der interaktive Zu@riffauf die Textdatei der LexikographischenDatenbank (LEDA) Sprache undDatenverarbeitung 1-2/1982, 1984, pp.28-33.Jan Brustkern/Wolfgang Schulze.
Towards aCumulated Word Data Base for the GermanLanguage.
IKP-Arbeitsbberichte Abtei-lung LDV.
Bonn: Institut fur Kommuni-kat ionsforschung und Phonetik derUniversit~t Bonn, 1983, pp.
1-9.Jan Brustkern/Wolfgang Schulze.
The Struc-ture of the Word Data Base for theGerman Language.
IKP-Arbeitsber ichteAbtei lung LDV, Nr.
i. Bonn: Institutfur Kommunikat ions f or schung und Pho-netik der Universit~t Bonn, 1983, pp1-9.Klaus HeB/Jan Brustkern/Winfr ied Lenders.Maschinenlesbare deutsche W~rterb0cher.Dokumentation, Vergleich, Integration.T~bingen, 1983.LDV-Info.
Informationsschr i f t  der Arbeits-stelle L inguist ische Datenverarbeitung,Mannheim : Institut fur deutscheSprache, 1981 ff.Joachim Mugdan.
Grammatik im W~rterbuch :wortbi ldung.
Germanist ische Linguist ik1-3/83, 1984, pp.
237-309.M.
Nagao, J. Tsujii, Y. Ueda, M. Takiyama.An Attempt to Computer ize Dict ionaryData Bases.
J. Gotschalckx, L. Rol l ing(eds.).
Lexicography in the ElectronicAge.
Amsterdam, 1982, pp.
51-73.Wolfgang Teubert Corpus and Lexicography.Proceedings of the Second Scientif icMeeting "Computer Processing ofL inguist ic Data".
Bled, Yugoslavia,1982, pp.
275-301.Herbert Ernst Wiegand / Antonin Kucera.Brockhaus-Wahrig.
Deutsches W6rterbuchauf dem Pr~fstand der prakt ischenLexikologie.
I. Teil: I.
Band (A-BT) ;2.
Band (BU-FZ).
Kopenhagener Beitr~gezur Germanist ischen Linguistik, 18,1981, pp.. 94-217.Herbert Ernst Wiegand / Antonin KuceraoBrockhaus-Wahri@.
Deutsches W~rterbuchauf dem Pr~fstand der prakt ischen Lexi-kologie.
II.
Teil: i.
Band (A-BT); 2.Band (BU-FZ); 3.
Band (G-JZ).Germanist ische L inguist ik 3-6/80, 1982,pp.
285-373.H.
C. Wolfart.
Divers i f ied Access in Lexi-cography.
R.R.K.Hartmann (edo).Dict ionaries and Their Users.
Papersfrom the 1978 B.A.A.L.
Seminar onLexicography.
(=Exeter Linguist icStudies, Vol.4).
Exeter, 1979, pp.143-153.37
