Machine Translation:its History, Current Status,and Future ProspectsJonathan SlocumAbst ractElements ot the h i s to ry ,  s ta te  of the ar t ,  andprobable fu ture  of Machine Trans la t ion  (MT) ared i scussed .
The t reatment  is  la rge ly  tu tor ia l ,based on the assumption that  th i s  audience i s ,  forthe most par t ,  ignorant  of mat ters  per ta in ing  tot rans la t ion  in  genera l ,  and MT in par t i cu la r .
Thepaper covers some of the major MT R&D groups,  thegenera l  techniques  they employ(ed),  and the ro lesthey p lay(ed)  in the development of the f ie ld .
Theconc lus ions  concern the seeming permanence of thet rans la t ion  problem, and potent ia l  re - in tegrat ionof MT with  mainstream Computational L ingu is t i cs .In t roduct ionSiemens Communications Systems, Inc.Linguistics Research CenterUnivers i ty  of TexasAustin, TexasWe are now into the fourth decade of MT, and thereis a resurgence of interest throughout the world --plus a growing number of ~ and MAT (Machine-aidedTrans la t ion)  systems in use by governments,bus iness  and indust ry .
Indust r ia l  f i rms are a lsobeginning to fund M(A)T R&D projects of their own;thus it can no longer be said that only goverementfunding keeps the field alive (indeed, in the U.S.there is no government funding, though the Japaneseand European governments are heavily subsidizing MTR&D).
In part this interest is due to morerealistic expectations of what is possible in MT,and realization that MT can be very useful thoughimperfect; but it is also true that thecapabilities of the newer MT systems lie wellbeyond what was possible just one decade ago.~ch ine Translation (MT) of natural human languagesis not a subject about which most scholars feelneutral.
Thzs field has had a long, colorfulcareer, and boasts no shortage of vociferousdetractors and proponents alike.
During its firstdecade in the 1950"s, in teres t  and support  wasfue led  by v i s ions  of h igh-speed h igh-qua l i tyt rans la t ion  of a rb i t ra ry  texts  (espec ia l l y  those ofinterest to  the military and intelligencecommunities, who funded MT projects quite heavily).During i t s  second decade in the 1960"s,disillusionment crept in as the number anddifficulty of the linguistic problems becameincreasingly obvious, and as it was realized thatthe translation problem was not nearly so amenableto automated solution as had been thought.
Theclimax came with the delivery of the NationalAcademy of Sciences ALPAC report in 1966,condemning the field and, indirectly, its workersallke.
The ALPAC report was criticized as narrow,biased, and short-sighted, but its recommendationswere adopted (with the important exception ofincreased expenditures for long-term research incomputational linguistics), and as a result MTprojects were cancelled in the U.S. and elsewherearound the world.
By 1973, the early part of thethird decade of MT, only three government-fundedprojects were left in the U.S., and by late 1975there were none.
Paradoxically, MT systems werestill being used by various government agencieshere and abroad, because there was simply noalternative means of gathering information fromforeign \[Russian\] sources so quickly; in addition,private companies were developing and selling MTsysEoms based on the mid-60"s technology so roundlycastigated by ALPAC.
Nevertheless the generaldisrepute of MT resulted in a remarkably quietth i rd  decade.In light of these events, it is worth reconsideringthe potential of, and prospects for, MachineTranslation.
After opening with an explanation ofhow \[human\] translation is done where it is takenseriously, we will present a brief introduction toMT technology and a short historical perspectivebefore considering the present status and state ofthe art, and then moving on to a discussion of thefuture prospects.
For reasons of space andperspicuity, we shall concentrate on MT efforts "inthe U.S. and western Europe, though some other MTprojects and less-sophisticated approaches willreceive attention.The Human Translation ContextWhen evaluating the feasibility or desirability ofMachine Translation, one should consider theendeavor in light of the facts of human translationfor like purposes.
In the U.S., it is common toconceive of translation as simply that which ahuman translator does.
It is generally believedthat a college degree \[or the equivalent\] in aforeign language qualifies one to be a translatorfor just about any material whatsoever.
Nativespeakers of foreign languages are considered to bethat much more qualified.
Thus, translation is notparticularly respected as a profession in the U.S.,and the pay is poor.In Canada, in Europe, and generally around theworld, this myopic attitude is not held.
Wheretranslation is a fact of life rather than anoddity, it is realized that any translator'scompetence is sharply restricted to a few domains(this is especially true of technical areas), andthat native fluency in a foreign language does notbestow on one the ability to serve as a translator.546Thus, there  are co l lege- leve l  and post -graduateschools that teach the theory (translatology) aswell as the practice of translation; thus, atechnical translator is trained in the few areas inwhich he will be doing translation.Of spec ia l  re levance to MT is the fact  thatessent ia l l y  a l l  t rans la t ions  for  d i sseminat ion(export )  are rev ised  by more highly qua l i f i edt rans la tors  who necessar i l y  re fe r  back to theor ig ina l  text  when post -ed i t ing  the t rans la t ion .
(Thls is not "pre-publication stylistic editing".
)Unrevised translations are always regarded asinferior in quality, or at least suspect, and formany if not most purposes they are simply notacceptable.
In the mul t i -nat iona l  firm Siemens,even internal communications which are translatedare post-edited.
Such news generally comes as asurprise, if not a shock, to most people in the US.It is easy to see, therefore, that the"fully-automatic high-quality machine translation"standard, imagined by most U.S. scholars toconstitute minimum acceptability, must be radicallyredef ined .
Indeed, the most famous MT c r i t i c  ofa l l  eventua l ly  recanted h is  s t rong oppos i t ion  toMT, admitt ing that  these terms could only bedef ined by the users ,  according to the i r  owns tandards ,  for  each s i tuat ion  \ [Bar -H i l l e l ,  71\].
Soan FIT system does not have to pr in t  and bind theresu l t  of i t s  t rans la t ion  in order to qua l i fy  as" fu l l y  automat ic . "
'~ igh  qua l i ty"  does not at a l lru le  out post -ed i t ing ,  s ince the proscr ip t ion  ofhuman revision would "prove" the infeasibility ofhigh-quality Human Translation.
Academic debatesabout what constitutes "high-quality" and "fully-automatic" are considered irrelevant by the usersof Machine Translation (MT) and Machine-aidedTranslation (MAT) systems; what matters to them aretwo things: whether the systems can produce outputof sufficient quality for the intended use (e.g.,revision), and whether the operation as a whole iscost-effective or, rarely, justifiable on othergrounds, like speed.Machine Trans la t ion  TechnologyIn order to apprec ia te  the d i f fe rences  amongt rans la t ion  systems (and the i r  app l i ca t ions ) ,  i t  i snecessary to understand, first, the broadcategories into which they can be classified;second, the different purposes for whichtranslations (however produced) are used; third,the intended applications of these systems; andfourth, something about the linguistic techniqueswhich MT systems employ in attacking thetranslation problem.Categories of SystemsThere are three broad categories of "computerizedtranslation tools" (the differences hinging on howambitious the system is intended to be): MachineTranslation (MT), Machine-aided Translation (MAT),and Terminology Databanks.MT systems are intended to perform t rans la t ionwithout human in tervent ion .
This does not ru le  outp re -process ing  (assuming th i s  i s  not for  thepurpose of marking phrase boundar ies and reso lv ingpar t -o f - speech  and/or other ambiguities, etc.
), norpost-editing (since this is normally done for humant rans la t ions  anyway).
However, an NT system issolely responsible for the complete translationprocess from input of the source text to output ofthe target text without human assistance, usingspecial programs, comprehensive dictionaries, andcollections of linguistic rules (to the extent theyex i s t ,  varying with the NT system).
NT occupiesthe top range of positions on the scale of computertranslation sophistication.MAT systems fa l l  into  two subgroups: human-ass istedmachine t rans la t ion  (RAMT) and mach ine-ass i s tedhuman t rans la t ion  (NAHT).
These occupysuccess ive ly  lower ranges on the sca le  of computert rans la t ion  sophistication.
Ih~HT re fers  to asystem wherein the computer i s  respons ib le  forproducing the t rans la t ion  per se,  but may in teractwi th  a human monitor at  many stages along the way- -  for  example, asking the human to disambiguate aword 's  par t  of speech or meaning, or to ind icatewhere to a t tach  a phrase,  or to choose at rans la t ion  fo r  a word or phrase from among severa lcandidates  d iscovered in the system's  d ic t ionary .
?~kHT re fers  to a system wherein the human isrespons ib le  fo r  producing the t rans la t ion  per se(on - l ine) ,  but may in teract  wi th  the system incer ta in  prescr ibed  s i tuat ions  - -  for  example,request ing  ass i s tance  in search ing through a loca ld ic t ionary / thesaurus ,  access ing  a remoteterminology databank, re t r iev ing  examples of theuse of a word or phrase,  or performing wordprocess ing  funct ions  l ike  fo rmat t ing .
Theex is tence  of a p re -process ing  stage is  un l i ke ly  ina NA(H)T system ( the  system does not need help,instead, it is making help available), butpost-editing is f requent ly  appropr ia te .Terminology Databanks (TD) are the leas tsoph is t i ca ted  systems because access f requent ly  isnot made during a t rans la t ion  task ( the t rans la tormay not be working on- l ine) ,  but usua l ly  isperformed pr io r  to human t rans la t ion .
Indeed thedatabank may not be access ib le  ( to  the t rans la tor )on - l ine  at  a l l ,  but may be l im i ted  to theproduct ion  of p r in ted  sub jec t -a rea  g lossar ies .
ATD o f fe rs  access to techn ica l  terminology,  butusua l ly  not to common words ( the user a l ready knowsthese) .
The ch ie f  advantage of a TD is  not thefact that it i s  automated (even with on- l ineaccess ,  words can be found jus t  as quickly in apr in ted  d ic t ionary) ,  but that  i t  i s  up - to -date :techn ica l  terminology is  constant ly  changing andpubl ished d ic t ionar ies  are essent ia l l y  obso le te  bythe time they are ava i lab le .
I t  i s  a lso  poss ib lefo r  a TD to conta in  more ent r ies  because i t  candraw on a la rger  group of ac t ive  cont r ibutors :  i t suser8 .The Purposes of T rans la t ionThe most immediate d iv i s ion  of t rans la t ion  purposesinvo lves  in format ion  acqu is i t ion  vs .d i sseminat ion .
The c lass ic  example of the formerpurpose is  in te l l igence-gather ing :  wi th  masses ofdata to s i f t  through, there  is  no t ime, money, orincent ive  to care fu l ly  t rans la te  every document by547normal ( i .e .
,  human) means.
Sc ient i s ts  moregenera l ly  are faced wi th  th i s  dilemma: there  isa l ready more to read than can be read in  the timeava i lab le ,  and having to labor through textswr i t ten  in fo re ign  languages - -  when theprobab i l i ty  i s  low that  any given text  i s  of rea lin teres t  - -  is  not worth the e f fo r t .
In the past ,the l ingua f ranca of sc ience  has been Engl ish ;  th i si s  becoming less  and less  t rue for  a var ie ty  ofreasons ,  inc lud ing the r i se  of nat iona l i sm and thespread of technology around the world.
As aresult, scientists who rely on English are havinggreater difficulty keeping up with work in theirfields.
If a very rapid and inexpensive means oftranslation were available, then -- for textswithin the reader's areas of expertise -- even alow-quality translation might be sufficient forin format ion  acqu is i t ion .
At wors t ,  the readercould determine whether a more care fu l  (and moreexpensive)  t rans la t ion  e f fo r t  might be jus t i f i ed .More l i ke ly ,  he could understand the content  of thetext  we l l  enough that  a more care fu l  t rans la t ionwould not be necessary .The c lass ic  example of the la t te r  purpose oft rans la t ion  i s  technology expor t :  an indust ry  inone country that  des i res  to se l l  i t s  products  inanother  country must usua l ly  provide documentat ionin the purchaser ' s  chosen language.
In the past ,U.S. companies have escaped th i s  respons ib i l i ty  byrequ i r ing  that  the purchasers  learn  Eng l i sh ;  o therexpor ters  (German, for  example) have never had th i sluxury.
In the fu ture ,  with the increase  ofnationalism, it is less likely that Englishdocumentation will be acceptable.
Translation isbecoming increas ing ly  common as more companies lookto fo re ign  markets .
More to the po in t ,  texts  fo rinformation dissemination (export) must bet rans la ted  wi th  a great  deal  of care:  thet rans la t ion  must be " r ight"  as wel l  as c lear .Qua l i f ied  human techn ica l  t rans la tors  are hard tof ind ,  expens ive ,  and slow ( t rans la t ing  somewherearound 4-6 pages/day,  on the average) .
Theinformation dissemination application is mastresponsible for the renewed interest in MT.Intended App l i ca t ions  of M(A)TAlthough l i te rary  t rans la t ion  is  a case ofin format ion  d i sseminat ion ,  there  i s  l i t t le  or nodemand for  l i te rary  t rans la t ion  by machine:re la t ive  to techn ica l  t rans la t ion ,  there  is  noshortage of human t rans la tors  capable of fu l f i l l i ngth i s  need, and in any case computers do not fa rewel l  at  l i te rary  t rans la t ion .
By cont ras t ,  thedemand for  techn ica l  t rans la t ion  i s  s tagger ing  insheer volume; moreover, the acqu is i t ion ,maintenance,  and cons is tent  use of va l id  techn ica lterminology is  an enormous problem.
Worse, in manytechnical fields there is a distinct shortage ofqualified human translators, and it is obvious thatthe problem will never be alleviated by measuressuch as greater incentives for translators, howeverlaudable that may be.
The only hope for a solutionto the technical translation problem lies withinc reased  human product iv i ty  through computertechnology:  fu l l - sca le  MT, less  ambit ious MAT,on - l ine  terminology databanks,  and word-process inga l l  have the i r  p lace .
A serend ip i tous  s i tuat ioninvo lves  s ty le :  in l i te rary  t rans la t ion ,  emphasisi s  p laced on s ty le ,  perhaps at  the expense ofabso lu te  f ide l i ty  to content  (espec ia l l y  forpoet ry ) .
In techn ica l  t rans la t ion ,  emphasis i sp roper ly  p laced on f ide l i ty ,  even at  the expense ofs ty le .
M(A)T systems lack s ty le ,  but excel  atterminology:  they are best  su i ted  fo r  techn ica lt rans la t ion .Linguistic TechniquesThere are severa l  perspect ives  from which one canview MT techn iques .
We w i l l  use the fo l lowing:d i rec t  vs .
ind i rec t ;  in ter l ingua  vs .
t rans fer ;and loca l  vs .
g lobal  scope.
(Not a l l  e ightcombinat ions are rea l i zed  in p ract i ce . )
We sha l lcharacter i ze  MT systems from these perspect ives ,  inour discussions.
In the past, "the use ofsemantics" was always used to distinguish MTsystems;  those which used semant ics  were labe l led"good ' ,  and those which did not were labe l led"bad ' .
Now a l l  MT systems \ [are claimed to\]  makeuse of semant ics ,  fo r  obvious reasons ,  so th i s  i sno longer  a d i s t ingu ish ing  character i s t i c .
'~ i rec t  t rans la t ion"  i s  character i s t i c  of a system(e .g .
,  CAT) des igned from the s tar t  to t rans la teout of one spec i f i c  language and in to  another .D i rec t  systems are l im i ted  to the minimom worknecessary  to e f fec t  that  t rans la t ion ;  fo r  example,d isambiguat ion i s  performed only to the extentnecessary  for  t rans la t ion  in to  that  one ta rgetlanguage, i r respect ive  of what might be requ i redfor  another  language.  "
Ind i rec t  t rans la t ion , "  onthe other  hand, is  character i s t i c  of a system(e .g .
,  EUROTRA) wherein the ana lys i s  of the sourcelanguage and the synthes is  of the ta rget  languageare to ta l l y  independent processes ;  fo r  example,d isambigunt ion i s  performed to the extent  necessaryto determine the "meaning" (however represented)  ofthe source language input ,  i r respect ive  of whichta rget  language(s)  that  input might be t rans la tedin to .The " in ter l ingua"  approach is  character i s t i c  of asystem (e .g .
,  CETA) in which the representat ion  ofthe "meaning" of the source language input i s\ [ in tended to be\] independent  of any language, andth i s  same representat ion  is  used to synthes ize  thetarget language output.
The "linguisticuniversals" searched for and debated about bylinguists and philosophers is the notion thatunderlies an interlingua.
Thus, the representationof a given "unit of meaning" would be the same, nomatter what language (or gr"mm-tical structure)that unit might be expressed in.
The "transfer"approach is characteristic of a system (e.g., TAUM)in which the underlying representation of the"meaning" of a gr---,-tical unit (e.g., sentence)differs depending on the language it was derivedfrom \[or into which it is to be generated\]; thisimplies the existence of a third translation stagewhich maps one language-specific meaningrepresentation into another: this stage is calledTransfer.
Thus, the overall transfer translationprocess is Analysis followed by Transfer and thenSynthesis.
The "transfer" vs. "interlingua"difference is not applicable to all systems; inparticular, "direct" MT systems use neither the548transfer nor the interlingua approach, since theydo not attempt to represent "meaning'.
'~ocal scope" vs. "global scope" is not so much adifference of category as degree.
'~ocal scope"characterizes a system (e.g., SYSTRAN) in whichwords are the essential unit driving analysis, andin which that analysis is, in effect, performed byseparate procedures for each word which try todetermine - -  based on the  words to  the le f t  and/orright -- the part of speech, possible idiomaticusage, and "sense" of the word keying theprocedure.
In such systems, for example,homographs (words which differ in part of speechand/or derivstional history \[thus meaning\], butwhich are written alike) are a major problem,because s unified analysis of the sentence per seis not attempted.
"Global scope" characterizes asystem (e.g., METAL) in which the meaning of a wordis determined by its context within a unifiedanalysis of the sentence (or, rarely, paragraph).In such systems, by contrast, homographs do nottypically constitute a significant problem becausethe amount of context taken into account is muchgreater than is the case with systems of "localscope.
"Historical PerspectiveThere are several comprehensive treatments of MTprojects \[Bruderer, 77\] and MT history \[Hutchins,78\] available in the open literature.
Toillustrate some continuity in the field of MT,while remaining within reasonable space limits, ourbrief historical overview will be restricted todefunct sys tems/pro jec ts  which gave r i se  tofo l low-on sys tems/pro jec ts  of current  in teres t .THese are :  Georgetown's CAT, Grenoble 's  CETA,Texas" METAL, Montrea l ' s  TAUM, and Brigham YoungUniversity's ALP system.CAT - Georgetown Automatic TranslationGeorgetown University was the site of one of theearllest MT projects.
Begun in 1952, and supportedby the U.S. government, Georgetown's CAT systembecame operational in 1964 with its delivery to theAtomic Energy Commission at Oak Ridge NationalLaboratory,  and to  Europe's  corresponding researchfac i l i ty  EURATON in I spra ,  I ta ly .
Both systemswere used for  many years to t rans la te  Russianphysics texts  in to  "Eng l i sh . "
The output qua l i tywas qu i t s  poor, by comparison with humant rans la t ions ,  but for  the intended purpose ofquickly scanning documents to determine the i rcontent and interest, the CAT system wasnever the less  uper ior  to the only a l te rnat ives :slow and more expensive human translation or,worse, no translation at all.
GAT was not replacedat EURATOM until 1976; at ORNL, it seems to havebeen used until around 1979 \[Jordan et el., 76,77\].The GAT strategy was "direct" and "local": simpleword-for-word replacement, followed by a limitedamount of transposition of words to result insomething vaguely resembling English.
Very soon, a"word" came to  be defined as a single word or asequence of words forming an "idiom'.
There was notrue linguistic theory underlying the GAT design;and, given the state of the art in computerscience, there was no underlying computationaltheory either.
GAT was developed by being made towork for a given text, then being modified toaccount fo r  the next text ,  and so on.
The eventualresult was a monolithic system of intractablecomplexity: after its delivery to ORNL and EURATOM,it underwent no significant modification.
The factthat it was used for so long is nothing short ofremarkable - -  a lesson  in what can be to le ra ted  byusers  who desperate ly  need t rans la t ion  serv ices  forwhich there  is no v iab le  a l te rnat ive  to evenlow-qua l i ty  MT.The termination of the Georgetown MT project in themid-60"s resulted in the incorporation of LATSEC byPeter Tome, one of the GAT workers.
LATSEC soondeveloped the SYSTRAN system (based on GATtechno logy) ,  which in 1970 replaced the IBM Mark I Isystem at  the USAF Foreign Technology D iv is ion(FTD) at  Wright Pat terson  AYB, and in 1976 rep lacedGAT at  EURATOM.
SYSTRAN is  s t i l l  being used totranslate Russian into English forin fo rmat ion -acqu is i t ion  purposes.
We sha l l  re turnto our d i scuss ion  of SYSTRAN in the next majorsect ion .CETA - Centre d '~tudes  pour la Traduct ionAutomatiqueIn 1%1 a pro jec t  was s tar ted  at  GrenobleUn ivers i ty  in France, to t rans la te  Russian in toFrench.
Unlike CAT, Grenoble began the CETApro jec t  w i th  a c lear  l ingu is t i c  theory - -  havinghad a number of years in  which to w i tness  and learnfrom the events  t ransp i r ing  at  Georgetown ande lsewhere.
In par t i cu la r ,  i t  was reso lved  toachieve a dependency-s t ruc ture  ana lys i s  of everysentence (a "g loba l "  approach) ra ther  than re ly  onin t ra -sentent ia l  heur i s t i cs  to cont ro l  l im i ted  wordtransposition (the "local" approach); with aunified analysis in hand, a reasonable synthesiseffort could be mounted.
The theoretical basis ofCETA was "interlingua" (implying a language-independent, "neutral" meaning representation) atthe gr-mm-tical level, hut "transfer" (implying amapping from one language-specific meaningrepresentat ion  to another)  at  the lex ica l\ [d ic t ionary \ ]  leve l .
The s ta te  of the ar t  incomputer sc ience s t i l l  being pr imi t ive ,  Grenoblewas essent ia l l y  forced to adopt IBM assemblylanguage as the sof tware bas is  of CETA \[Rutchins,78\ ] .The CETA system was under development for  tenyears ;  dur ing 1%7-71 i t  was used to t rans la te400,000 words of Russian mathematics and physicstexts  in to  French.
The major f ind ings  of th i sper iod were that  the use of an in ter l ingua  erasesa l l  c lues  about how to express the t rans la t ion ;a l so ,  that  i t  resu l t s  in extremely poor or not rans la t ions  of sentences for  which completeana lyses  cannot be der ived .
The CETA workerslearned that  i t  i s  c r i t i ca l l y  important in anoperat iona l  system to re ta in  sur face c lues abouthow to formulate the t rans la t ion  ( Indo-Europeanlanguages,  for  example, have many s t ruc tura lsimilarities, not to mention cognates, that one can549take advantage of), and to have "fail-soft"measures designed into the system.
An interlinguadoes not allow this \[easily, if at all\], but thet rans fer  approach does.A change in hardware (thus software) in 1971prompted the abandonment of the CETA system,immediately followed by the creation of a newproject/system called GETA, based entirely on afail-soft transfer design.
The software was still,however, written in assembly language; thiscontinued reliance on assembly language was soon tohave deleterious effects, for reasons now obviousto anyone.
We will return to our discussion ofGETA, below.METAL - MEchanical Translation and Analysis ofLanguagesHaving had the same opportunity for hindsight, theUnivers i ty  of Texas in  1961 used U.S. governmentfunding to es tab l i sh  the L ingu is t i cs  ResearchCenter, and with it the METAL project, toinvestigate MT -- not from Russian, but from Germani n to  Eng l i sh .
The LRC adopted Chomsky'stransformational paradigm, which was quicklygaining popularity in linguistics circles, andwithin that framework employed a syntacticinterl~ngua based on deep structures.
It was soondiscovered that transformational linguistics per sewas not sufficiently well-developed to support anoperational system, and certain compromises weremade.
The eventual result, in 1974, was an80,000-1ine, 14-overlay FORTRAN program running ona dedicated CDC 6600.
Indirect translation wasperformed in 14 steps of global analysis, transfer,and synthesis -- one for each of the 14 overlays --and required prodigious amounts of CPU time and I/Ofrom/to massive data files.
U.S. governmentsupport for MT projects was winding down in anycase, and the METAL project was shortly terminated.Several  years la ter ,  a small  Government grantresur rec ted  the pro jec t .
The FORTRAN program wasrewr i t ten  in LISP to run on a DEC-10; in  theprocess ,  i t  was pared down to jus t  th ree  majors tages  (ana lys i s ,  t rans fer ,  and synthes is )compris ing about 4,000 l ines  of code which could beaccommodated in three  "over lays , "  and i t s  computerresource requi rements  were reduced by a fac tor  often .
Though U.S. government in teres t  once againlanguished,  the Sprachendienst  (Language Serv ices )department of Siemens b~ in Munich had begunsupport ing the pro jec t ,  and in  1980 Siemens AGbecame the so le  sponsor .TAUM - Traduct ion Automatique de l 'Un ivers i t~  deHontr~alIn 1962 the University of Montreal established theTAUM project with Canadian government funding.This was probably the first MT project designedstrictly around the transfer approach.
As thesoftware basis of the project, TAUM chose thePASCAL programming language on the CDC 6600.
Afteran initial period of more-or-less open-endedresearch, the Canadian gover~m~ent began adoptingspecific goals for the TAUM system.
A chanceremark by a bored translator in the CanadianMeteorological Center had led to a spin-offproject: TAUM-METEO.
Weather forecasters werealready required to adhere to a prescribed manualof style and vocabulary in their English reports.Partly as a result of this, translation into Frenchwas so monotonous a task that human translatorturnover in the weather service was extraordinarilyhigh -- six months was the average tenure.
TAUMwas commissioned in 1975 to produce an operationalEnglish-French MT system for weather forecasts.
Aprototype was demonstrated in 1976, and by 1977METEO was installed for production translation.
Wewill discuss METEO in the next major section.The next challenge was not long in coming: by afixed date, TAUM had to be usable for thetranslation of a 90 million word set of aviationmaintenance manuals from English into French (elsethe translation had to he started by human means,since the result was needed quickly).
From thispoint on, TAUM concentrated on the aviation manualsexclusively.
To alleviate problems with theirpurely syntact i c  ana lys i s  (espec ia l l y  cons ider ingthe many mul t lp le -noun compounds present  in theav ia t ion  manuals) ,  the group began in 1977 toincorporate partial semantic analysis in theTAUM-AVLkTION system.Af ter  a tes t  in 1979, i t  became obvious thatTAUM-AVIATION was not going to be product ion - readyin t ime fo r  i t s  intended use.
The Canadiangoverement organized a ser ies  of tes ts  andeva luat ions  to assess  the s ta tus  of the system.Among other things, it was discovered that the costof writing each dictionary entry was remarkablyhigh (3.75 man-hours, costing $35-40), and that thesystem's runtime translation cost was also high (6cents /word)  cons ider ing  the cost  of humant rans la t ion  (8 cents /word) ,  espec ia l l y  when thepost -ed i t ing  cos ts  (10 cents /word for  TAUM vs .
4cents /word for  human t rans la t ions )  were taken ih toaccount \[Gervais, 1980\]; TAUM was not yetcost-effective.
Several other factors, especiallythe bad Canadian economic situation, combined withthis to cause the cancellation of the TAUM projectin 1981.
There are recent signs of renewedinterest in MT in Canada.
State-of-the-art surveyshave been commissioned \[Pierre Isabelle, formerlyof TAUM, personal communication\], but no successorproject has yet been established.ALP - Automated Language Process ingIn 1971 a pro jec t  was es tab l i shed  at  Brigham YoungUn ivers i ty  to t rans la te  Mormon ecc les ias t i ca l  textsfrom English into multiple languages -- startingwith French, German, Portuguese and Spanish.
Theeventual aim was to produce a fully-automatic MTsystem based on Junction Grammar \[Lytle et al,75\], but actual work proceeded on Machine-AidedTranslation (MAT, where the system does not attemptto analyze sentences on its own, according topre-programmed linguistic rules, but instead reliesheavily on interaction with a human to effect theanalysis \[if one is even attempted\] and completethe translation).The BYU pro jec t  never produced an operat iona lsystem, and the Mormon Church, through the550University, began to dismantle the project.
Around1977, a group composed primarily of programmersleft BYU to join Weidner Communications, Inc., andproceeded to develop the fully-automatic, directWeidner MT system.
Shortly thereafter, most of theremaining BYU project members left to formAutomated Language Processing Systems (ALPS) andcontinue development of the BYU MAT system.
Bothof these systems are actively marketed today, andwill be discussed in the next section.
Some workcontinues at BYU, but at a very much reduced leveland degree of aspiration (e.g., \[Melby, 82\]).Current Production SystemsIn this section we consider the major M(A)T systemsbeing used and/or marketed today.
Four of theseoriginate from the "failures" described above, butfour systems are essentially the result ofsuccessful (i.e., continuing) MT R&D projects.
Thefull MT systems discussed below are the following:SYSTRAN, LOGOS, METEO, Weidner, and SPANAM; we willalso discuss the MAT systems CULT and ALPS.
Mostof these systems have been installed for severalcustomers (METEO, SPANAM, and CULT ere theexceptions, with only one obvious "user" each).The oldest installation dates from 1970.A "standard installation," if it can be said toexist, includes provision for pre-processing insome cases, translation (with much humanintervention in the case of MAT systems), and someamount of post-editing.
To MT system users,acceptability is a function of the amount of pre-and/or post-editing that must be done (which isalso the greatest determinant of cost).
Van Slype\[82\] reports that "acceptability to the humantranslator...appears negotiable when the quality ofthe MT system is such that the correction (i.e.,post-editing) ratio is lower than 20% (i correctionevery 5 words) and when the human translator can beassociated with the upgrading of the MT system.
"It is worth noting that editing time has beenobserved to fall with practice: Pigott \[82\] reportsthat "...the more M.T.
output a translatorhandles, the more proficient he becomes in makingthe best use of this new tool.
In some cases hemanages to double his output within a few months ashe begins to recognize typical M.T.
errors anddevise more efficient ways of correcting them.
"It is also important to realize that, though noneof these systems produces output mistakable forhuman translation \[at least not good humantranslation\], their users have found sufficientreason to continue using them.
Some users, indeed,are repeat  customers.
In shor t ,  FIT & MAT systemscannot be argued not to work, for they are in factbeing bought and used, and they save time and/ormoney for their users.
Every user eXpresses adesire for improved quality and reduced cost, to besure, but then the same is said about humantranslation.
Thus, in the only valid sense of theidiom, MT & MAT have already "arrived."
Futureimprovements in quality, and reductions in cost --both certain to take place -- will serve to makeM(A)T systems even more attractive.SYSTRANSYSTRAN was one of the first MT systems to bemarketed; the first installation replaced the IBMMark II Russian-English system at the USAF FTD in1970, and is still operational, Eased on the CATtechnology (SYSTRAN uses the same linguisticstrategies, to the extent they can be argued toexist), SYSTRAN's software basis has been muchimproved by the introduction of modularity(separating the analysis and synthesis stages), bya recent shift away from simple "direct"translation (from the Source Language straight intothe Target Language) toward the inclusion ofsomething resembling an intermediate "transfer"stage, and by the allowance of manually-selectedtopical glossaries (essentially, dictionariesspecific to \[the subject area of\] the text).
Thesystem is still ad hoc -- particularly in theassignment of semantic features \[Pigott, 79\].
TheUSAF FTD dictionaries number over a millionentries; Eostad \ [82 \ ]  reports that dictionaryupdating must be severely constrained, lest achange to one entry disrupt the activities of manyothers.
(A study by Wilks \[78\] reported animprovement/degradation ratio \[after dictionaryupdates\] of 7:3, but Bostad implies a much morestable situation after the introduction ofstringent \[and expensive\] quality-controlmeasures.)
NASA selected SYSTRAN in 1974 totranslate materials relating to the Apollo-Soyuzcollaboration, and EURATOM replaced GAT withSYSTRAN in 1976.
Also by 1976, FTD was augmentingSYSTRA~ with word-processing equipment to increaseproductivity (e.g., to eliminate the use ofpunch-cards).In 1976 the Commission of the European Communitiespurchased an English-French version of SYSTRAN forevaluation and potential use.
Unlike the FTD,NASA, and EURATOM installations, where the goal wasinformation acquisition, the intended use by CECwas for information dissemination -- meaning thatthe output was to be carefully edited before humanconsumption.
Van Slype \[82\] reports that "theEnglish-French standard vocabulary delivered byProf.
Toma to the Commission was found to bealmost entirely useless for the Commissionenviror--ent. ''
Early evaluations were negative(e.g., Van Slype \[79\]), but the existing andprojected overload on CEC human translators wassuch that investigation continued in the hope thatdictionary additions would improve the system tothe point of usability.
Additional versions ofSYSTRAN were purchased (French-English in 1978, andEngllsh-Italian in 1979).
The dream of acceptablequality for post-editing purposes was eventuallyrealized: Pigott \[82\] reports that "...theenthusiasm demonstrated by \[a few translators\]seems to mark something of a turning point in\[machine translation\]."
Currently, about 20 CECtranslators in Luxambourg are using SYSTRAN on aSiamens 7740 computer for routine translation; onefactor accounting for success is that the Englishand French dictionaries now consist of well overi00,000 entries in the very few technical areas forwhich SYSTRAN is being employed.551Also in 1976, General Motors of Canada acquiredSYSTRAN for translation of various manuals (forvehicle service, diesel locomotives, and highwaytransit coaches) from English into French on an IBMmainframe.
GM's English-French dictionary had beenexpanded to over 130,000 terms by 1981 \[Sereda,82\].
Subsequently, GM purchased an English-Spanishversion of SYSTRAN, and is now working to build thenecessary \[very large\] dictionary.
Sereda \[82\]reports a speed-up of 3-4 times in the productivityof his human translators (from about 1000 words perday);  he a lso revea ls  that  developing SYSTRANd ic t ionary  ent r ies  cos ts  the company approximately$4 per term (word- or idiom-pair).While o ther  SYSTRAN users  have app l ied  the systemto unres t r i c ted  texts  ( in  se lec ted  sub jec t  a reas) ,Xerox has developed a res t r i c ted  input language('Multinational Customized English') afterconsultation with LATSEC.
That is, Xerox requiresits English technical writers to adhere to aspec ia l i zed  vocabulary and a strict manual ofs ty le .
SYSTRAN is  then employed to t rans la te  theresu l t ing  documents in to  French, I ta l ian ,  andSpanish;  Xerox hopes to add German and Portuguese.Ruffino \[82\]  reports "a five-to-one gain intranslation time for most texts" with the range ofgains being 2-10 times.
This approach is notnecessar i l y  feas ib le  for  a l l  o rgan izat ions ,  butXerox is  w i l l i ng  to employ i t  and claims i t  a lsoenhances ource - text  c la r i ty .Currently, SYSTRAN is being used in the CEC for theroutine translation, followed by humanpost-editing, of around 1,000 pages of text permonth in the couples English-French,French-English, and English-ltalian \[Wheeler, 83\].Given th i s  re la t ive  success  in  the CEC env i rom-ent ,the Commission has recent ly  ordered anEnglish-German vers ion  as wel l  as a French-Germanversion.
Judging by past experience, it will bequite some time before these are ready forproduction use, but when ready they will probablysave the CEC t rans la t ion  bureau va luab le  time, ifnot rea l  money as we l l .LOGOSDevelopment of the LOGOS system was begun in 1964.The first installation, in 1971, was used by theU.S.
Air Force to translate English maintenancemanuals for military equipment into Vietnamese.Due to the termination of U.S. involvement in thatwar, and perhaps partly to a poor evaluation ofLOGOS" cost-effectiveness \[Sinaiko and Xlare, 73\],its use was ended after two years.
As withSYSTRAN, the linguistic foundations of LOGOS areweak and inexplicit (they appear to involvedependency structures); and the analysis andsynthesis rules, though separate, seem to bedesigned for particular source and targetlanguages, limiting their extensibility.LOCOS continued to attract customers.
In 1978,Siemens AG began funding the development of a LOGOSGerman-English system for telecommunicationsmanuals.
After three years LOCOS delivered a"production" system, but it was not found suitablefor use (due in part to poor quality of thetranslations, and in part to the economic situationwithin Siemens which had resulted in a much-reduceddemand for translation, hence no immediate need foran MT system).
Eventually LOGOS forged anagreement with the Wang computer company whichallowed LOGOS to implement the German-Englishsystem (formerly restricted to large IBMmainframes) on Wang office computers.
This systemis being marketed today, and has recently beenpurchased by the Commission of the EuropeanCommunities.
Development of other language pairshas been mentioned from time to time.METEOTAUM-METEO is the world's only example of a trulyfully-automatic MT system.
Developed as a spin-offof the TAUM technology, as discussed earlier, itwas fully integrated into the CanadianMeteorological Center's (CMC's) nation-wide weathercommunications network by 1977.
METEO scans thenetwork traffic for English weather reports,translates them "directly" into French, and sendsthe translations back out over the communicationsnetwork automatically.
Rather than relying onpost-editors to discover and correct errors, METEOdetects its own errors and passes the offendinginput to human editors; output deemed "correct" byMETEO is dispatched without human intervention, oreven overview.TAUM-METEO was probably also the first MT systemwhere translators were involved in all phases ofthe design/development/refinement; indeed, a CMCtranslator instigated the entire project.
Sincethe restrictions on input to METEO were already inplace before the project started (i.e., METEOimposed no new restrictions on weatherforecasters), METEO cannot quite be classed withthe TITUS and Xerox SYSTRAN systems which rely "onrestrictions geared to the characteristics of thoseMT systems.
But METEO is not extensible.One of the more remarkable side-effects of theMETEO installation is that the translator turn-overrate within the CMC went from 6 ~nths,  prior toMETEO, to several years, once the CMC translatorsbegan to trust METEO's operational decisions andnot review its output \[Brian Harris, personalcommunication\].
METEO's input constitutes over11,000 words/day, or 3.5 million words/year.
Ofthis, it correctly translates 80%, shuttling theother ('bore interesting") 20% to the human CMCtranslators; almost all of these "analysisfailures" are attributable to violations of the CMClanguage restrictions, though some are due to theinability of the system to handle certainconstructions.
METEO's computational requirementstotal about 15 CPU minutes per day on a CDC 7600\[Thouin, 82\].
By 1981, it appeared that thebuilt-in limitations of METEO's theoretical basishad been reached, and further improvement was notpossible.Weidner Communications Systems, Inc.Weidner was established in 1977 by Bruce Weidner,who hired a group of FIT workers (predominantlyprogrammers) from the fading BYU project.
Weidner552delivered a production English-French system toMitel in Canada in 1980, and a beta-testEnglish-Spanish system to the Siemens Corporation(USA) in the same year.
In 1981 Mite1 tookdelivery on Weidner's English-Spanish andEnglish-German systems, and Bravice (a translationservice bureau in Japan) purchased the WeidnerEnglish-Spanish and Spanish-English systems.
Todate, there are about 22 installations of theWeidner MT system around the world.
The Weidnersystem, though "fully automatic" duringtranslation, is marketed as a "machine aid" totranslation (perhaps to avoid the stigma usuallyattached to MT).
It is highly interactive forother purposes (the lexical pre-analysis of texts,the construction of dictionaries, etc.
), andintegrates word-processing software with externaldevices (e.g., the Xerox 9700 laser printer atMitel) for enhanced overall document production.Thus, the Weidner system accepts a formatted sourcedocument (actually, one containingformatting/typesetting codes) and produces aformatted translation.
This is an importantfeature to users, since almost everyone isinterested in producing formatted translations fromformatted source texts.Given the way this system is tightly integratedwith moaern word-processing technology, it isdifficult to assess the degree to which thetranslation component itself enhances translatorproductlvity, vs. the degree to which simpleautomation of formerly manual (or poorly automated)processes accounts for the productivity gains.
The"direct" translation component itself is notparticularly sophisticated.
For example analysisis "local," being restricted to the noun phrase orverb phrase level -- so that context available onlyat higher levels can never be taken into account.Translation is performed in four independentstages: idiom search, homograph disambiguation,structural analysis, and transfer.
These stages donot interact with each other, which creates moreproblems; for example, an apparent idiom in a textis always treated idiomatically -- never literally,no matter what its context (since no othercontextual information is available until later).Hundt \[82\] comments that "idioms are an extremelyimportant part of the translation procedure."
Itis particularly interesting that he continues:"...machine assisted translation is for the mostpart word replacement..." Then, "It is notworthwhile discussing the various problems of the\[Weidner\] system in great depth because in thefirst place they are much too numerous..." Yeteven though the Weidner translations are of lowquality, users nevertheless report economicsatisfaction with the results.
Hundt continues"...the Weidner system indeed works as an aid..."and, "800 words an hour as a final figure \[fortranslation throughput\] is not unrealistic."
Thislevel of performance was not attainable withprevious \[human\] methods, and some users report theuse of Weidner to be cost-effective, as well asfaster, in their enviroements.In 1982, Weidner delivered English-German andGerman-English systems to ITT in Great Britain; butthere were some financial problems (a third of theemployees were laid off that year) until acontrolling interest was purchased by a Japanesecompany: Bravice, one of Weidner's customers, ownedby a group of wealthy Japanese investors.
Weidnercontinues to market }iT systems, and is presentlyworking to develop Japanese MT systama.
Aprototype Japanese-English system has recently beeninstalled at Bravice, and work continues on anEnglish-Japanese system.
In addition, Weidner hasimplemented its systam on the IBM PersonalComputer, in order to reduce its former dependenceon the PDP-II.SPANAMFollowing a promising feasiblity study, the PanAmerican Health Organization in Washington, D.C.decided in 1975 to undertake work on a machinetranslation system, utilizing many of the sametechniques developed for GAT; consultants werehired from nearby Georgetown University, the homeof GAT.
The official PAHO languages are English,French, Portuguese, and Spanish; Spanish-Englishwas chosen as the initial language pair, due to thebelief that "This combination requires fewerparsing strategies in order to produce manageableoutput \[and other reasons relating to expendingeffort on software rather than linguistic rules\]"\[Vasconcellos, 83\].
Actual work started in 1976,and the first prototype was running in 1979, usingpunched card input on an IBM mainframe.
With thesubsequent integration of a word processing system,production use could be seriously considered.After further upgrading, the system in 1980 wasofferred as a service to potential users.
Laterthat  year ,  in i t s  f i r s t  major tes t ,  SPANAM reducedmanpower requirements for a certain translationeffort by 45~, resulting in a monetary savings of61Z \[Vasconcellos, 83\].
Since then it has beenused to translate well over a million words oftext, averaging about 4,000 words per day perpost-editor.
(Significantly, SPANAM's in-housedevelopers seem to be the only revisors of itsoutput.)
The post-editors have amassed "a bag oftricks" for speeding the revision work, and specialstring functions have also been built into the wordprocessor for handling SPANAM's English output.Sketchy details imply that the linguistictechnology underlying SPANAM is essentially that ofGAT; the rules may even still be built into theprograms.
The software technology has been updatedconsiderably in that the programs are modular (inthe newest vers ion) .
The to ta l  lack ofsophistication by modern Computational Linguisticsstandards is evidenced by the offhand remark that"The maximum length of an idiom \[allowed in thedictionary\] was increased from five words totwenty-five" in 1980 \[Vasconcellos, 83\].
Also, thesystem adopts the "direct" translation strategy,and fails to attempt a "global" analysis of thesentence, settling for "local" analysis of limitedphrases.
The SPANAM dictionary currently numbers55,000 entries.
A follow-on project to developENGSPAN, underway since 1981, has produced sometest translations.553CULT - Chinese University Language TranslatorCULT is perhaps the most successful of theMachine-aided Translation systems.
Developmentbegan at the Chinese University of Hong Kong around1968.
CULT translates Chinese mathematics andphysics journals (published in Beijing) intoEnglish through a highly-interactive process \[or,at least, with a lot of human intervention\].
Thegoal was to eliminate post-editing of the resultsby allowing a large amount of pre-editing of theinput, and a certain \[unknown\] degree of humanintervention during translation.
Althoughpublished details \[Loh, 76, 78, 79\] are notunambiguous, it is clear that humans intervene bymarking sentence and phrase boundaries in theinput, and by indicating word senses wherenecessary, among other things.
(What is not clearis whether this is strictly a pre-editing task, oran interactive task.)
CULT runs on the ICL 1904Acomputer.Beginning in 197~, the CULT system was applied tothe task of translating the Acta Mathematica Sinicainto English; in 1976, this was joined by the ActaPhysica Sinlca.
This production translationpractice continues to this day.
Originally theChinese character transcription problem was solvedby use of the standard telegraph codes invented acentury ago, and the input data was punched oncards.
But in 1978 the system was updated by theaddition of word-processing equipment for on-linedata entry and pre/post-editing.It is not clear how general the techniques behindCULT are -- whether, for example, it could beapplied to the translation of other texts -- norhow cost-effective it is in operation.
Otherfactors may justify its continued use.
It is alsounclear whether R&D is continuing, or whether CULT,like METEO, is unsuited to design modificationbeyond a cer ta in  po int  a l ready reached.
In theabsence of answers to these  quest ions ,  and perhapsdespite them, CULT does appear to be an MAT successstory: the amount of post-editing said to berequired is trivial -- limited to there-introduction of certain untranslatable formulas,f igures ,  e tc .
,  in to  the t rans la ted  output .
At somepoint, other translator intervention is required,but it seems to be limited to the manual inflectionof verbs and nouns for tense and number, andperhaps the introduction of a few function wordssuch as English determiners.ALPS - Automated Language Processing SystemsALPS was incorporated by another group of BrighamYoung University workers, around 1979; while thegroup forming Weidner was composed mostly of theprogrammers interested in producing afully-automatic MT system, the group forming ALPS(reusing the old BYU acronym) was composed mostlyof linguists interested in producing machine aidsfor human translators (dictionary look-up andsubstitution, etc.)
\[Melby and Tenney, personalcommunication\].
Thus the ALPS system isinteractive in all respects, and does not seriouslypretend to perform translation at all; rather, ALFSprovides the translator with a set of softwaretools to automate many of the tasks encountered ineveryday translation experience.
ALPS adopted thetools originally developed at BYU -- and hence, thelanguage pairs the BYU system had supported:English into French, German, Portuguese, andSpanish.
Since then, other languages (e.g.,Arabic) have been announced, but their commercials ta tus  i s  unc lear .The ALPS system is intended to work on any of three"levels" -- providing capabilities from simpledictionary lookup on demand to word-for-word(actually, term-for-term) translation andsubstitution into the target text.
The centraltool provided by ALPS is a menu-drivenword-processing system coupled to the on-linedictionary.
One of the first ALPS customers seemsto have been Agnew TechTran -- a commercialtranslation bureau which acquired the ALP$ systemfor in-house use.
Recently, another change ofownership and consequent shake-up at Weidnercommunication Systems, Inc., has allowed ALPS tohire a large group of former Weidner workers,leading to speculation that ALPS might itself beintending to enter the MT arena.Current Research and DevelopmentIn addition to the organizations marketing or usingexisting M(A)T systems,  there  are severa l  groupsengaged in on-going R&D in th i s  area .
Operat ional( i .e .
,  marketed or used) systems have not yetresu l ted  from these  e f fo r ts ,  but de l iver ies  areforeseen at various times in the future.
We willdiscuss the major Japanese MT efforts briefly (asif they were unified, in a sense, though for themost part  they are ac tua l ly  separate) ,  and then themajor U.S. and European MT systems at  g reaterlength.MT R&D in JapanIn 1982 Japan electrified the technological worldby widely publicizing their new Fifth Generationproject and establishing the Institute for NewGeneration Computer Technology (ICOT) as its base.Its goal is to leapfrog Western technology andplace Japan at the forefront of the digitalelectronics world in the 1990"s. MITI (Japan'sMinistry of International Trade and Industry) isthe motivating force behind this project, andintends that the goal be achieved through thedevelopment and application of highly innovativetechniques in both computer architecture andArtificial Intelligence.Of the research areas to be addressed by the ICOTscientists and engineers, Machine Translation playsa prominent role.
Among the western ArtificialIntelligentsia, the inclusion of D~ seems out ofplace: AI researchers have been trying(successfully) to ignore all MT work in the twodecades since the ALPAC debacle, and almostuniversally believe that success is impossible inthe foreseeable future -- in ignorance of thesuccessful, cost-effective applications already inplace.
To the Japanese leadership, however, theinclusion of D~ is no accident.
Foreign languagetraining aside, translation into Japanese is still554one of the primary means by which Japaneseresearchers acquire information about what theirWestern competitors are doing, and how they aredoing it.
Translation out of Japanese is necessarybefore Japan can export products to its foreignmarkets, because the customers demand that themanuals and other documentation not be written onlyin Japanese.
The Japanese correctly viewtranslation as necessary to their technologicalsurvival, but have found it extremely difficult toaccomplish by human means.
Accordingly, theirgovernment has sponsored MT research for severaldecades.
There has been no rift between AI and D~researchers in Japan, as there has been in the West-- especially in the U.S. MT may even be seen asthe key to Japan's acquisition of enough Westerntechnology to train their scientists and engineers,and thus accomplish their Fifth Generation projectgoals.Nemura \[82\] nembers the MT R&D groups in Japan atmore than eighteen.
(By contrast, there might be adozen significant MT groups in all of the U.S. andEurope, including commercial vendors.)
Several ofthe Japanese projects are quite large.
(Bycontrast, only one MT project in the western world\[EUROTRA\] even appears as large, but most of the 80individuals involved work on EUROTRA only afraction of their time.)
Most of the Japaneseprojects are engaged in research as much asdevelopment.
(Most Western projects are engaged indevelopment.)
Japanese progress in MT has not comefast: until a few years ago, their hardwaretechnology was inferior; so was their softwarecompetence, but this situation has been changingrapidly.
Another obstacle has been the greatdifferences between Japanese and Western languages-~ especially English, which is of greatestinterest to them -- and the relative paucity ofknowledge about these differences.
The Japaneseare working to eliminate this ignorance: progresshas been made, and production-quality systemsalready exist for some applications.
None of theJapanese MT systems are "direct," and all engage in"global" analysis; most are based on a transferapproach, but a few groups are pursuing theinterlingua approach.MT research has been pursued at Kyoto Universitysince 1968.
There are now two MT projects at Kyoto(one for near-term application, one for long-termresearch).
The former has developed a practicalsystem for translating English titles of scientificand technical papers into Japanese \[Nagao, 80, 82\],and is working on other applications ofEnglish-Japanese \[Tsujii, 82\] as well asJapanese-English \[Nagao, 81\].
The other group atKyoto is working on an English-Japanese translationsystem based on formal semantics (Cresswell'ssimplified version of Montague Grammar \[Nishida etal., 82, 83j).
Kyushu University has been the homeof HT research since 1955, with projects by Tamachiand Shudo \[74\].
The University of Osaka Prefectureand Fukuoka University also host MT projects.However, most Japanese D~ research (like otherresearch) is performed in the industriallaboratories.
Fujitsu \[Sawai et al, 82\], Hitachi,Toshiba \[Amano, 82\], and NEC \[Muraki & Ichiyema,82\], among others, support large projects generallyconcentrating on the translation of computermanuals.
Nippon Telegraph and Telephone is workingon a system to translate scientific and technicalarticles from Japanese into English and vice versa\[Nemura et al, 82\], and is looking into the futureas far as simultaneous machine translation oftelephone conversations \[Nemura, personalcommunication\].The Japanese industrialists are not confining theirattention to work at home.
Several AI/MT groups inthe U.S.
(e.g., SRI, U. Texas) have beenapproached by Japanese companies desiring to fundMT R&D projects.
More than that, some U.S. MTvendors (SYSTRAN and Weidner, at least) haverecently sold partial interests to Japaneseinvestors.
Various Japanese corporations (e.g.,NTT and Hitachi) and trade groups (e.g., JEIDA\[Japan Electronic Industry DevelopmentAssociation\]) have sent teems to visit MT projectsaround the world and assess  the s ta te  of the ar t .Un ivers i ty  researchers  have been g iven sabbat ica l sto work a t  Western MT centers  (e .g .
,  Shudo atTexas, Tsu j i i  at  Grenob le ) .
Other representat iveshave ind icated  Japan 's  des i re  to par t i c ipate  in  theCEC's EUROTRA pro jec t  \ [Margaret King, persona lcommunicat ion\] .
Japan ev idences  a long- term,growing commitment to acqu i re  and develop HTtechnology.
The Japanese leadersh ip  i s  convincedthat success in MT is vital to their future.METALOf the major MT R&D groups around the world, itwould appear that the new METAL project at theLinguistics Research Center of the University ofTexas is closest to delivering a product.
TheMETAL German-English system passed tests in aproduction-style setting in late 1982, mid-EJ, andearly 1984, and the system has been installed atthe sponsor's site in Germany for further testingand final development of a translator interface.The METAL dictionaries are being expanded formaximum possible coverage of selected technicalareas in anticipation of production use in 1984.Commercial introduction is also a possibility.Work on other language pairs has begun:English-German is now underwayj and Spanish andChinese are in the target language design stage.One of the particular strengths of the METAL systemis its accommodation of a variety of linguistictheories/strategies.
The German analysis componentis based on a context-free phrase-structuregrammar, augmented by procedures with facilitiesford among other things, arbitrary transformations.The English analysis component, on the other hand,employs a modified GPSG approach and makes no useof transformations.
Analysis is completelyseparated  from t rans fer ,  and the system ismulti-lingual in that a given constituent structureanalysis can be used for transfer and synthesisinto multiple target languages.
Experimentaltranslation of English into Chinese (in addition toGerman) will soon be underway; translation fromboth English and German into Spanish is expected tobegin in the immediate future.555The transfer component of METAL includes twotransformation packages, one used by transfergrammar rules and the other by transfer dictionaryentries; these co-operate during transfer, which iseffected during a top-down exploration of the/highest-scoring\] tree produced in the analysisphase.
The strategy for the top-down pass iscontrolled by the linguist who writes the transferrules; these in turn are paired i-I with thegrammar rules used to perform the originalanalysis, so that there is no need to searchthrough a general transfer gr-m,,-r to findapplicable rules (potentially allowing applicationof the wrong ones).
As implied above, structuraland lexical transfer are performed in the samepass, so that each may influence the operation ofthe other; in particular, transfer dictionaryent r ies  may spec i fy  the syntact i c  and/or  semanticcontexts  in  which they are va l id .
I f  no ana lys i si s  achieved for  a g iven input ,  the longest  phraseswhich together  span that  input are  se lec ted  forindependent t rans fer  and synthes is ,  so that  everyinput (a sentence,  or perhaps a phrase)  resu l t s  insome t rans la t ion .In addition to producing a translation system perse, the Texas group has developed software packagesfor text processing (so as to format the outputtranslations like the original input documents),data base management (of dictionary entries andgrammar rules), rule validation (to eliminate mosterrors in dictionary entries and gr-,-m-r rules),dictionary construction (to enhance humanefficiency in coding lexical entries)j etc.
Asidefrom the word-processing front-end (being developedby Siemens, the project sponsor), the METAL groupis developing a complete system, rather than abasic machine translation engine that leaves muchdrudgery for its human developers/users.
Lehmannet al \[81\], Bennett \[82\], and Slocum \[83, 84\]present more details about the METAL system.GETAAs discussed earlier, the Groupe d'Etudes pour laTraduction Automatique was formed when Grenobleabandoned the CETA system.
In reaction to thefailures of the interlingua approach, GETA adoptedthe transfer approach.
In addition, the formersoftware design was largely discarded, and a newsoftware package supporting a new style ofprocessing was substituted.
The core of GETA iscomposed of three programs: one converts stringsinto trees (for, e.g., word analysis), one convertstrees into trees (for, e.g., syntactic analysis andtransfer), and the third converts trees intostrings (for, e.g., word synthesis).
The overalltranslation process is composed of a sequence ofstages, wherein each stage employs one of thesethree programs.One ot the features of GETA that sets it apart fromother MT systems is the insistence on the part ofthe designers that no stage be more powerful thanis minimally necessary for its proper function.Thus, rather than supplying the linguist withprogramming tools capable of performing anyoperation whatever (e.g., the arbitrarily powerfulQ-systems of TAUM), GBTA supplies at each stageonly the minimum capability necessary to effect thedesired linguistic operation, and no more.
Thisreduces the likelihood that the linguist willbecome overly ambitious and create unnecessaryproblems, and also enabled the programmers toproduce software that runs more rapidly than wouldbe possible with a more general scheme.A "grammar" in GETA is actually a network ofsubgrammars; that is, a grammar is a graphspecifying alternative sequences of applications ofthe subgr---,-rs and optional choices of whichsubgra~mars are to be applied (at all).
Thetop-level grammar is therefore a "control graph"over the subgrm, m-rs which actually effect thelinguistic operations -- analysis, transfer, etc.GETA is sufficiently general to allowimplementation of any linguistic theory, or evenmultiple theories at once (in separate subgrammars)if such is desired.
Thus, in principle, GETA iscompletely open-ended and could accommodatearbitrary semantic processing and reference to"world models" of any description.In practice, however, the story is morecomplicated.
In order to increase thecomputational flexibility, as is required to takeadvantage of substantially new linguistic theories,especially "world models', the underlying softwarewould have to be changed in many various ways.Unfortunately, it is written in IBM assemblylanguage, making modification extremely difficult.Worse, the programmers who wrote the software havelong since left the GETA project, and the currentstaff is unable to safely attempt significantmodification.
As a result, there has been nosubstantive change to the GETA software since 1975,and the GBTA group has been unable to experimentwith any new computational strategies.
Back-up,for example, is a known problem \[Tsujii, personalcommunication\]: if the GETA system "pursues a wr6ngpath" through the control graph of subgr~mmars, itcan undo some of its work by backing up past wholegraphs, discarding the results produced by entiresubgr---,-rs; but within a subgr-mm-r, there is nopossibility of backing up and reversing the effectsof individual rule applications.
The GETA workerswould like to experiment with such a facility, butare unable to change the software to allow this.Until GETA receives enough funding that newprogra~mers can be hired to rewrite the software ina high-level language, facilitating present andfuture redesign, the GETA group is "stuck" with thecurrent software, now 10 years old and showingclear signs of age, to say nothing ofnon-transportability.GETA seems not to have been pressed to produce anapplication early on, and the staff was relatively"free" to pursue research interests.
Until GETAcan be updated, and in the process freed fromdependence on IBM mainframes, it may never he aviable system.
The project staff are activelyseeking funding for such a project.
Meanwhile, theFrench goverr=nent has launched an applicationeffort through the GETA group.556SUSY - Saarbruecker  Uebersetzungssys temThe University of the Saar at Saarbruecken, WestGermany, hosts one of the larger MT projects inEurope, established in the late 1960"s. After thefailure of a project intended to modify GAT forRussian-German translation, a new systsm wasdesigned along somewhat similar lines to translateRussian into German after "global" sentenceanalysis into dependency tree structures, using thetransfer approach.
Unlike most other F?r projects,the Saarbruecken group was left relatively free topursue research interests, rather than forced toproduce applications, and was also funded at alevel sufficient to permit significant on-goingexperimentation and modification.
As a result,SUSY tended to track external developments in ~and AI more closely than other projects.
Forexample, Saarbruecken helped establish theco-operative HT group LEIBNIZ (along with Grenobleand others) in 1974, and adopted design ideas fromthe GETA system.
Until 1975, SUSY was based on astrict transfer approach; since 1976, however, ithas evolved, becoming more abstract as linguisticproblems mandating "deeper" analysis have forcedthe transfer representations to assume some of thegenerality of an interlingua.
Also as a result ofsuch research freedom, there was apparently nosustained attempt to develop coverage for specificapplications.Intended as a multi-lingual system involvingEnglish, French, German and Russian, work on SUSYhas concentrated on translation into German fromRussian and, recently, English.
Thus, the extentto which SUSY may be capable of multilingualtranslation has not yet been ascertained.
Then,toO, some aspects of the software are surprisinglyprimitzve: only very recently, for example, did themorphological analysis program becomenondeterministic (i.e., general enough to permitlexical ambiguity).
The strongest limiting factorin the further development of SUSY seems to berelated to the initial inspiration behind theproject: SUSY adopted a primitive approach in whichthe linguistic rules were organized intoindependent strata, and were incorporated directlyinto the software \[Maas, 84\].
As a consequence,the rules were virtually unreadable, and theirinteractions, eventually, became almost impossibleto manage.
In terms of application potential,therefore, SUSY seems to have failed.
Asecond-generation project, SUSY-II, begun in 1981,may fare better.EUROTRAEUROTRA is the largest MT project in the Westernworld.
It is the first serious attempt to producea true multi-lingual system, in this case intendedfor all seven European Economic Communitylanguages.
The justification for the project issimple, inescapable economics: over a third of theentire administrative budget of the EEC for 1982was needed to pay the translation division (averageindividual income: $43,O00/year), which still couldnot keep up with the demands placed on it;technical translation costs the EEC $.20 per wordfor each of six translations (from the seventhoriginal language), and doubles the cost of thetechnology documented; with the addition of Spainand Portugal later this decade, the translationstaff would have to double for the current demandlevel (unless highly productive machine aids werealready in place) \[Perusse, 83\].
The high cost ofwriting SYSTRAR dictionary entries is presentlyjustifiable for reasons of speed in translation,but this situation is not viable in the long term.The EEC must have superior quallty MT at lower costfor dictionary work.
Human translation alone willnever suffice.EUROTRA is a true multi-national developmentproject.
There is no central laboratory where thework will take place, but instead designatedUniversity representatives of each member countrywill produce the analysis and synthesis modules fortheir native language; only the transfer moduleswill be built by a "central" group -- and thetransfer modules are designed to be as small aspossible, consisting of little more than lexicalsubstitution \[King, 82\].
Software development willbe almost entirely separated from the linguisticrule development; indeed, the production software,though designed by the EUROTRAmembers, will bewritten by whichever commercial software house winsthe contract in bidding competition.
Severalco-ordinating c~i t tees  are working with thevarious language and emphasis groups to insureco-operation.The linguistic basis of EUROTRA is nothing novel.The basic structures for representating "meaning"are dependency trees, marked with feature-valuepairs partly at the discretion of the languagegroups writing the gram~nars (anything a groupwants, it can add), and partly controlled by mutualagreement among the language groups (a certain setof feature-value combinations has been agreed toconstitute minimum information; all are constrainedto produce this set when analyzing sentences intheir language, and all may expect it to be presentwhen synthesizing sentences in their language)\[King, 81, 82\].The software basis of EUROTRA will not be noveleither, though the design is not yet complete.
Thebasic rule interpreter will be "a general re-writesystem with a control language overgrazamars/processes" \[King, personal communication\].As in GETA, the linguistic rules will be bundledinto packets of subgrammars, and the linguists willbe provided with a means of controlling whichpackets of rules are applied, and when; theindividual rules will be non-destructive re-writerules, so that the application of any given rulemay create new structure, but will never erase anyold information (no back-up).EUROTRAwill engage in  straightforward developmentusing state-of-the-art but "proven" techniques.The charter requires delivery of a smallrepresentat ive  pro to type  system by la te  1987, and aprototype  cover ing  one techn ica l  a rea  by la te  1988.EUROTRA is required to translate among the nativelanguages of all member countries which sign the"contract of association" by early mid-84; thus,not all seven EEC languages will necessarily be557represented ,  but by law at l eas t  four languagesmust be represented if the project is to continue.The State of the ArtHuman languages are ,  by nature ,  d i f fe rent .
So muchso, that the illusory goal of abstract perfectionin translation -- once and still imagined by someto be achievable -- can be comfortably ruled out ofthe realm of possible existence, whether attemptedby machine or man.
Even the abstract notion of"quality" is undef inab le ,  hence immeasurable.
Inits place, we must substitute the notion ofevaluation of translation according to its purpose,judged by the consomer.
One must there fore  acceptthe t ru th  that  the not ion  of qua l i ty  i s  inherent lysub jec t ive .
Cer ta in ly  there  w i l l  be t rans la t ionsha i led  by most if not a l l  as "good," andcorrespondingly there will be translations almostuniversally labelled 'bad."
Most translations,however, will surely fall in between theseextremes,  and each user must render  h is  ownjudgement accord ing to h i s  needs.In corporate circles, however, there is and hasalways been an operational definition of "good" vs.'bad" translation: a good translation is whatsenior translators are willing to expose to outsidescrutiny (not that they are fully satisfied, forthey never a re ) ;  and a bad one i s  what they are notw i l l i ng  to re lease .
These exper ienced t rans la tors- -  usuat ly  post -ed i to rs  - -  impose a judgement whichthe corporate  body is  w i l l i ng  to accept  at  faceva lue:  a f te r  a l l ,  such judgement is the verypurpose for having senior translators.
It isarrived at subjectively, based on the purpose forwhich the translation is intended, but comes asc lose  to being an ob jec t ive  assessment as the worldi s  l i ke ly  to see.
In a post -ed l t in@ context ,  a"good" original translation is one worth revisingi.e., one which the editor will endeavor tochange, rather than reject or replace with his ownoriginal translation.Therefore ,  any ra t iona l  pos i t ion  on the s ta te  ofthe ar t  in  MT & MAT must respect  the operat iona ldec is ions  about the qua l i ty  of MT & MAT as judgedby the present  users .
These systems are a l l ,  ofcourse,  based on old technology ( "anc ient , "  by thes tandards  of AI researchers ) ;  but by the timesystems employing today 's  AI technology h i t  themarket, they too will be "antiquated" by theresearch laboratory standards of their time.
Suchis the nature of technology.
We will thereforedistinguish, in our assessment, between what isavailable and/or used now ("old," yet operationallycurrent, technology), and what is around the nextcorner (techniques working in research labs today),and what is farther down the road (experimentalapproaches).Product lon SystemsProduct ion M(A)T systems are based on oldtechnology;  some, for  example, s t i l l  (or unt i l  veryrecent ly  d id)  employ punch-cards and pr in t (ed)  outt rans la t ions  in  a l l  upper -case .
Few i f  any attempta comprehensive "g loba l "  ana lys i s  at  the sentenceleve l  ( t rade  secrets  make th i s  hard to d i scern) ,and none go beyond that to the paragraph level.None use a significant amount of semanticinformation (though all claim to use some).
Mostif not all perform as "idiots savants', making useof enormous amounts of very unsophisticatedpragmatic information and brute-force computationto determine the proper word-for-word oridiom-for-idiom translation followed by localrearrangement of word order -- leaving thetranslation chaotic, even if understandable.But they work!
Some of them do, anyway -- wellenough that their customers find reason to investenormous amounts of time and capital developing thenecessary massive dictionaries specialized to theirapplications.
Translation time is certainlyreduced.
Translator frustration is increased ordecreased, as the case may be (it seems thatpersonality differences, among other things, have alarge bearing on this).
Some translators resisttheir introduction -- there are those who stillresist the introduction of typewriters, to saynothing of word processors -- with varying degreesof success.
But most are thinking about acceptingthe place of computers in translation, and a fewactually look forward to relief from much of thedrudgery they now face.
Current MT systems seem totake some get t ing  used to, and further productivityincreases are realized as time goes by; they areusually accepted, eventually, as a boon to thebored translator.
New products embodying oldtechnology are constantly introduced; most arefound not viable, and quickly disappear from themarket.
But those which have been around for yearsmust be economically justifiable to their users --else, presumably, they would no longer exist.Development SystemsSystoms being developed fo r  near - te rm in t roduct ionemploy Computational L ingu is t i cs  (CL) techniques  c fthe la te  1970"s, i f  not the 80"s. Essent ia l l y  a l lare fu l l  HT, not MAT, systems.
As Hutchins \[82\]notes ,  " .
.
.
there  is  now cons iderab le  agreement onthe bas ic  s t ra tegy ,  i .e .
a " t rans fer "  system withsome semantic analysis and some interlingualfeatures in order to simplify transfer components.
"These systems employ one of a variety ofsophisticated parsing/transducing techniques,typically based on charts, whether the grammar isexpressed via phrase-structure rules (e.g., METAL)or  \[strings of\] trees (e.g., GETA, EUROTRA); theyoperate at the sentence level, or higher, and makesignificant use of semantic features.
Properlinguistic theories, whether elegant or not quite,and heuristic software strategies take the place ofsimple word substitution and brute-forceprogramming.
If the analysis attempt succeeds, thetranslation stands a fair chance of beingacceptable to the revisor; if analysis fails, thenfail-soft measures are likely to produce somethingequivalent to the output of a current production MTsystem.These systems work well enough in experimentalsettings to give their sponsors and waitingcustomers (to say nothing of their implementors)reason to hope for near-term success inapplication.
Their technology is based on some of558the latest techniques which appear to be workablein i,m, ediate large-scale application.
Most "pureAI" techniques do not fall in this category; thus,serious AI researchers look down on thesedevelopment systems (to say nothing of productionsystems) as old, uninteresting -- and probablyuseless.
Some likely are.
But others, though"old," will soon find an application niche, andwill begin displacing any of the current productionsystems which try to compete.
(Since the presentcrop of development systems all seen to be aimed atthe "information dissemination" application, thecurrent productlon systems that are aimed at the"information acquisition" market may survive forsome time.)
The major hurdle is time: time towrite and debug the grammars (a very hard task),and time to develop lexicons with roughly tenthousand general vocabulary items, and the few tensof thousands of technical terms required persubject area.
Some development projects haveinvested the necessary time, and stand ready todeliver commercial applications (e.g., GETA,METAL).Research SystemsThe biggest problem associated with MT researchsystems is their scarcity (nonexistence, in theU.S.).
If current CL and AI researchers wereseriously interested in multiple languages -- evenif not for translation per se -- this would notnecessarily be a bad situation.
But in the U.S.they certainly are not, and in Europe, CL and AIresearch has not yet reached the level achieved inthe U.S. Western business and industry arenaturally more concerned with near-term payoff, andsome track development systems; very few support FiTdevelopment directly, and none yet support pure D~research at a significant level.
(The Dutch firmPhilips may, indeed, have the only long-termresearch project in the West.)
Some Europeangovernments fund significant R&D projects (e.g.,Germany and France), but Japan is making by far theworld's largest investment in MT research.
TheU.S.
government, which otherwise supports the bestoverall AI and \[English\] CL research in the world,is not involved.Where pure MT research  pro jec ts  do exist, they tendto concent ra te  on the problems of deep meaningrepresentat ions  - -  s t r i v ing  to pursue the goal of atrue AI system, which would presumably includelanguage-independent meaning representations ofgreat depth and complexity.
Translation here isseen as just one application of such a system: thesystem "understands" natural language input, then"generates" natural language output; if thelanguages happen to be different, then translationhas been performed via paraphrase.
Translationcould thus be viewed as one of the ultimate testsof an Artificial Intelligence: if a system"translates correctly," then to some extent it canbe argued to have "understood correctly," and inany case will tell us much about what translationis all about.
In this role, MT research holds outits greatest promise as a once-again scientificallyrespectable discipline.
The first requirement,however, is the existence of research groupsinterested in, and funded for, the study ofmultiple languages and translation among themwithin the framework of AI research.
At thepresent time only Japan, and to a somewhat lesserextent western Europe, can boast such groups.Future ProspectsThe world has changed in the two decades sinceALPAC.
The need and demand for  techn ica lt rans la t ion  has inc reased  dramat ica l l y ,  and thesupply of qualified human technical translators hasnot kept pace.
(Indeed, it is debatable whetherthere existed a sufficient supply of qualifiedtechnical translators even in 1966, contrary toALPAC's claims.)
The classic "law of supply anddemand" has not worked in this instance, forwhatever reasons: the shortage is real, all overthe world; nothing is yet serving to stem thisworsening situation; and nothing seems capable ofdoing so outside of dramatic productivity increasesvia computer automation.
In the EEC, for example,the a l ready  overwhelming load of techn ica lt rans la t ion  i s  p ro jec ted  to r i se  s ix fo ld  w i th inf i ve  years .The future premises greater acceptance bytranslators of the role of machine aids -- runningthe gamut from word processing systems and on-lineterm banks to MT systems -- in technicaltranslation.
Correspondingly, M(A)T systems willexperience greater success in the marketplace.
Asthese systems continue to drive down the cost oftranslation, the demand and capac i ty  fortranslation will grow even more than it wouldotherwise: many "new" needs for translation, notpresently economically justifiable, will surface.If MT systems are to continue to improve so as tofurther reduce the burden on human translators,there will be a greater need and demand forcontinuing MT R&D efforts.ConclusionsThe translation problem will not go away, and humansolutions (short of full automation) do not now,and never will, suffice.
MT systems have alreadyscored successes  among the user  community, and thet rend can hard ly  fa i l  to cont inue  as users  demandfu r ther  improvements and greater  speed, and MTsystem vendors  respond.
Of course ,  the need fo rresearch  i s  g reat ,  but some cur rent  and fu tureapplications will continue to succeed on economicgrounds alone -- and to the user community, this isvirtually the only measure of success or failure.It is important to note that translation systemsare not going to "fall out" of AI efforts which arenot seriously contending with multiple languagesfrom the start.
There are two reasons for this.First, English is not a representative language.Relatively speaking, it is not even a very hardlanguage from the standpoint of ComputationalLinguistics: Japanese, Chinese, Russian, and evenGerman, for example, seem more difficult to dealwith using existing CL techniques -- surely in pertdue to the nearly total concentration of CL workerson English.
Developing translation ability willrequire similar concentration by CL workers onother languages; nothing less will suffice.559Second, it would seem that translation is not byany means a simple matter of understanding thesource text ,  then reproducing i t  in  the ta rgetlanguage - -  even though some t rans la tors  (andvirtually every layman) will say this is so.
Onthe one hand, there is the serious question ofwhether, in for example the case of an article onfront-line research in semiconductor switchingtheory, or nuclear physics, a translator reallydoes "fully comprehend" the content of the articlehe is  t rans la t ing .
One would suspect  not .
( Johnson \[83\] makes a point  of c la iming that  he hasproduced t rans la t ions ,  judged good by informedpeers ,  in techn ica l  areas where h is  exper t i se  i sde f i c ient ,  and h i s  unders tand ing ,  incomplete . )
Onthe other  hand, i t  i s  a lso  t rue that  t rans la t ionschools  expend a great  deal  of e f fo r t  teach ingtechn iques  for  low- leve l  lex ica l  and syntact i cmanipu lat ion  - -  a cur ious fac t  to cont ras t  w i th  theusual  " fu l l  comprehension" c la im.
In any event ,every qua l i f i ed  t rans la tor  w i l l  agree that  there  i smuch more to translation than simpleanalysis/synthesis (an almost prima facie proof ofthe necessity for Transfer).What this means is that the development oftranslation as an application of ComputationalLinguistics will require substantial research inits own right in addition to the work necessary inorder  to provide the bas ic  multi-lingual ana lys i sand synthesis tools.
Translators must beconsulted, for they are the experts in translation.None of this will happen by accident; it mustresult from design.ReferencesAmano, S. Machine Translation Project at ToshibaCorporation.
Technical note.
Toshiba Corporation,R&D Center, Information Systems Laboratory,Kawasaki, Japan, November 1982.Bar-Hillel, Y., "Some Reflections on the PresentOutlook for High-Quality Machine Translation," inW.P .
Lehmann and R. Stachowitz (eds.
),Feasibility Study on Fully Automatic High QualityTranslation.
Final technical reportRADC-TR-71-295.
Linguistics Research Center,University of Texas at Austin, December 1971.Bennett, W. S. The Linguistic Component of METAL.Working paper LRC-82-2, Linguistics ResearchCenter, University of Texas at Austin, July 1982.Bostad, D. A., 'Quality Control Procedures inModification of the Air Force Russian-EnKlish MTSystem," in V. Lawson (ed.
), Practical Experienceof Machine Translation.
North-Holland, Amsterdam,1982, pp.
129-133.Bruderer, H. E., "The Present State of Machine andMachine-Assisted Translation," in Commission of theEuropean Communities, Third European Congress onInformation Systems and Networks: Overcoming theLanguage Barrier, vol.
i. Verlag Dokumentation,Munich, 1977, pp.
529-556.Gervais, A., et DG de la Planification, del'Evaluation et de la Verification.
Rapport finald'~valuation du syst~me pilots de traductionautomatique TAUM-AVIATION.
Canada, Secretariatd'Etat, June 1980.Hundt, M. G., 'Working with the WeidnerMachine-Aided Translation System," in V.
Lawson(ed.
), Practical Experience of Machine Translation.North-Holland, Amsterdam, 1982, pp.
45-51.Hutchins, W. J., "Progress in Documentation:Machine Translation and Machine-Aided Translation,"Journal of Documentation 34, 2, June 1978, pp.119-159.Hutchins,  W. J .
,  "The Evo lut ion  of MachineTrans la t ion  Systems,"  in  V. Lawson (ed . )
,Practical Experience of Machine Translation.North-Holland, Amsterdam, 1982, pp.
21-37.Johnson, R. L., "Parsing - an MT Perspective," inK.
S. Jones and Y. Wilks (eds.
), Automatic NaturalLanguage Parsing.
Ellis Horwood, Ltd., Chichester,Great Britain, 1983.Jordan, S. R., A. F. R. Brown,, and F. C. Rutton,"Computerized Russian Translation at ORNL," inProceedings of the ASIS Annual Meeting, SanFrancisco, 1976, p. 163; also in ASIS Journal 28,1, 1977, pp.
26-33.King, M., '~esign Characteristics of a MachineTranslation System," Proceedings of the SeventhIJCAI, Vancouver, B.C., Canada, Aug. 1981, vol.
I,pp.
43-46.King, M., "EUROTRA: An Attempt to AchieveMultilingual MT," in V. Lawson (ed.
), PracticalExperience of Machine Translation.
North-Holland,Amsterdam, 1982, pp.
139-147.Lehmann, W. P., W. S. Bennett, J. Sloeum, H. Smith,S.
M. V. Pfluger, and S. A. Eveland.
The METALSystem.
Final technical report RADC-TR-80-374,Linguistics Research Center, University of Texas atAustin, January 1981.
NTIS report A0-97896.Loh, S.-C., '~achine Translation: Past, Present,and Future," ALLC Bulletin 4, 2, March 1976, pp.105-114.Lob, S.-C., L. KonE, and H.-S. Rung, '~achineTranslation of Chinese Mathematical Articles," ALLCBulletin 6, 2, 1978, pp.
111-120.Loh, S.-C., and L. Kong, "An Interactive On-LineMachine Translation System (Chinese into English),"in B. M. Snell (ed.
), Translating and the Computer.North-Holland, Amsterdam, 1979, pp.
135-148.Lytle, E. G., D. Packard, D. Gibb~ A. g. Melby, andF.
H. Billings, "Junction Grammar as a Base forNatural Language Processing," AJCL 3, 1975,microfiche 26, pp.
1-77.Maas, H.-D., "The D~ system SUSY," presented at theISSCO Tutorial on Machine Translation, Lugano,Switzerland, 2-6 April 1984.560Melby, A. K. "Multi-level Translation Aids in aDistributed System," Ninth ICCL \[COLING 82\],Prague, Czechoslovakia, July 1982, pp.
215-220.Muraki, K., and S. Ichiyama.
An Overview of MachineTranslation Project at NEC Corporation.
Technicalnote.
NEC Corporation, C & C Systems ResearchLaboratories, 1982.Nagao, H., J. Tsujii, K. Mitamure, N. Rirakawa, andM.
Kume, "A Machine Translation System fromJapanese into English: Another Perspective of MTSystems," Proceedings of the Eighth ICCL \[COLING80\], Tokyo, 1980, pp.
414-423.Nagao, M., et el.
On English Generation for aJapanese-English Translation System.
TechnicalReport on Natural Language Processing 25.Information Processing of Japan, 1981.Nagao, M., J. Tsujii, K. Yada, and T. Kakimoto, "AnEnglish Japanese Machine Translation System of theTitles of Scientific and Engineering Papers,"Proceedings of the Ninth ICCL \[COLING 82\], Prague,5-10 July 1982, pp.
245-252.Nishida, F., and S. Takamatsu, 'Uapanese-EnglishTranslation Through Internal Expressions,"Proceedings of the Ninth ICCL \[COLING 82\], Prague,5-10 July 1982, pp.
271-276.Nisnida, T., and S. Doshita, '~n English-JapaneseMachine Translation System Based on FormalSemantics of Natural Language," Proceedings of theNinth ICCL \[COLING 82\], Prague, 5-10 July 1982, pp.277-282.Nisnida, T., and S. Doshita.
An Application ofMontague Grammar to English-Japanese }~chineTranslation.
Proceedings of the ACL-NRL Conferenceon Applied Natural Language Processing, SantaMonica, California, February 1983, pp.
156-165.Nomura, H., and A. Shimazu.
Machine Translation inJapan.
Technical note.
Nippon Telegraph andTelephone Public Corporation, Musashino ElectricalCommunication Laboratory, Tokyo, November 1982.Nomura, N., A. Shimazu, H. Iida, Y. Katagiri, Y.Saito, S. Naito, K. Ogura, A. Yokoo, and M.Mikami.
Introduction to LUTE (LanguageUnderstander, Translator & Editor).
Technicalnote, Musashino Electrical CommunicationLaboratory, Research Division, Nippon Telegraph andTelephone Public Corporation, Tokyo, November 1982.Perusse, D., '~achine Translation," ATA Chronicle12, 8, 1983, pp.
6-8.Pigott, I. M., "Theoretical Options and PracticalLimitations of Using Semantics to Solve Problems ofNatural Language Analysis and Machine Translation,"in H. MacCatferty and K. Gray (eds.
), The Analysisof Meaning: Informatics 5.
ASLIB, London, 1979,pp.
239-268.Pigott, I. M., "The Importance of Feedback fromTranslators in the Development of High-QualityMachine Translation," in V. Lawson (ed.
), PracticalExperience of Machine Translation.
North-Holland,Amsterdam, 1982, pp.
61-73.Ruffino, J. R., "Coping with Machine Translation,"in V. Lawson (ed.
), Practical Experience of MachineTranslation.
North-Holland, Amsterdam, 1982, pp.57-60.Sawai, S., R. Fukushima, M. Sugimoto, and N. Ukai,'~nowledge Representation and Machine Translation,"Proceedings of the Ninth ICCL \[COLING 82\], Prague,5-10 July 1982, pp.
351-356.Sereda, S. P., "Practical Experience of MachineTranslation," in V. Lawson (ed.
), PracticalExperience of Machine Translation.
North-Holland,Amsterdam, 1982, pp.
119-123.Shudo, K., "On Machine Translat ion from Japaneseinto English for a Technical Field," InformationProcessing in Japan 14, 1974, pp.
44-50.Sinaiko, S. W., and G. R. Klare, '~urtherExperiments in Language Translation: A SecondEvaluation of the Readability of ComputerTranslations," ITL 19, 1973, pp.
29-52.Slocu~, J.
'~ Status Report on the LRC MachineTranslation System," Proceedings of the ACL-NRLConference on Applied Natural Language Processing,Santa Monica, California, I-3 February 1983, pp.166-173.Slocu~, J., '~ETAL: The LRC Machine TranslationSystem," presented at the ISSCO Tutorial on MachineTranslation, Lugano, Switzerland, 2-6 April 1984.Thouin, B., "The Meteo System," in V. Lawson (ed.)
,Pract lca l  Experience of Machine Translat ion.North-Holland, Amsterdam, 1982, pp.
39-44.Tsujii, J., "The Transfer Phase in an English-Japanese Translation System," Proceedings of theNinth ICCL \[COLING 82\], Prague, 5-10 July 1982, pp.383-390.Van Slype, G., '~valuat ion du syst~me de traductionautomatlque SYSTE~ angla is - f ran~ais ,  vers ion 1978,de la Commission des communaut~s Europ~ennes,"Babel 25, 3, 1979, pp.
157-162.Van Slype, G., "Economic Aspects of MachineTrans lat ion,"  in V. Lawson (ed.)
,  Pract ica lExperience of Machine Translat ion.
North-Holland,Amsterdam, 1982, pp.
79-93.Vasconcellos, M., '~Lanagoment of the MachineTranslat ion Envirooment," Proceedings of the ASLIBConference on Translating and the Computer, London,November 1983.Wheelerp P., "The Errant Avocado (Approaches toAmbiguity in SYSTEAN Trans lat ion) , "  Newsletter 13,Natural Language Translations Spec ia l i s t  Group,BCS, February 1983.Wilks, Y., and LATSEC, Inc. ComparativeTranslat ion Quality Analysis.
Final report oncontract F-33657-77-C-0695.
1978.561
