LEXICON-GRAMMAR AND THE SYNTACTIC ANALYSIS OF FRENCHMaurice GrossLaboretoire d'Automatique Documentsire et LinguistiqueUniversity of Paris 72 place Jussieu75251 Paris CEDEX 05FranceABSTRACTA lexicon-grammar is constituted ot the elementary sentences ofa language.
Instead of considering words as basic syntactic unitsto which grammatical information is attached, we use simplesentences (subject-verb-objects) as dictionary entries, Hence, sfull dictionary item is a simple sentence with a description of thecorresponding distr ibutional and transformational properties,The systematic study of French has led to an organization ofits lexicon-grammar based on three main components:- the lexicon-grammar of free sentences, that is, of sentences whoseverb imposes selactionel restrictions on its subject and complements(e.g.
to fall, to eat, to watch),- the lexicon-grammar of frozen or idiomatic expressions (e.g.N takes N into account, N faiaea a question,- the lexicon-grammar ot support verbs.
These verbs do not have thecommon selactional restrictions, but more complex dependenciesbetween subject and complement (e.g.
to have, to make inN has an impact on N, N makes a certain impression on N)These three components interact in specific ways.
We presentthe structure of the lexicon-grammar built for French and we discussits algorithmic implications for parsing.The construction of a lexicon-grammar of French has led to anaccumulation of linguistic information that should significantlybear on the procedures ot automatic analysis of natural languages.We shall present the structure of a lexicon-grammar built for French<2> and will discuss its algorithmic main implications.1.
VERBSThe syntactic properties of French verbs have been limited interms of the size of sentences, that is, by restricting the type ofcomplements to object complements.
We considered 3 main types ofobjects: direct, and with prepositions ~ and de.
Verbs havebeen selected from current dictionaries according to thereproducibility of the syntactic judgments carried out on them by ateam of linguists.
A set of about 10~000 verbs has thus beenstudied.The properties systematically studied for each verb are thestandard ones:1 E.R.A.
247 of the C.N.R.S.
afiliated to the Universities Paris7 and Paris Viii.2 Publication of the lexicon-grammar is under way.
The mainsegments available are: Boons, Guillet, Lecldre 1976a, 1976b andGross 1975 for French verbs, Giry-Schneider 1978, A. Meunier 1981,de Ndgroni 1978, for nominalizations,- distributional properties, such as human or non human nouns, andtheir pronominal shapes (definite, relative, interrogative pronouns<3>, clitics), possibility of sentential subjects and complementsque  (that S), ai 3 (whether S, if S) or reduced infinit iveforms noted V Comp,transformational properties, such as passive, extraposition,clit icization, etc,/~logether, 500 properties have been checked against the 1~000verbs <4>.More precisely, each property can be viewed as a sentence form.Consider for example the transit ive structure(1) N O V N 1We are using Z.S.
Harris' notation for sentence structure: nounphrases are indexed by numerical subscripts, starting with thesubject indexed by 0.
We can note the property "human subject" inthe following equivalent ways:(2) Nhum V N 1 or N O (:: Nhum) V N tw~ere the symbol :: is used to specify a structure .
A passivestructure will be noted(3) N I be V-ed by N OA transformation is a relation between two structures noted "=?
':(1) = (3) corresponds to the Passive ruleThe syntactic information attached to simple sentences can thus berepresented in a uniform way by means ot binary matrix (Table 1).Each row ot the matrix corresponds to a verb, each column to asentence form.
When a verb enters into a sentence form, a "+" signis placed at the intersection of the corresponding row and column,if not s " - "  sagn.
The description of the French verbs does nothave the shape of a 10,000x500 matrix.
Because of its redundancy(cf.
note 4 1, the matrix has been broken down into about 50submatrices whose size is 200x40 on the average.
It is such asystem of submatrices that we call a lexicon-grammar.J Actually, the shape of interrogative pronouns: qu~ (who),que-quoi (what) has been used to define a formal notion ofobject.4 Not all properties are relevant to each of the 10~000 verbs.For example, the properties of clitics associated to objectcomplements are irrelevant to intransit ive verbs.275i!tt Idt~-,='eml:~l,?- - - ='em~4- -+ + 4- 4.
- ;'e~lmmmr+-4 .4 -+ b~km- + ?
- -- :=pkmr+ - - - m f~+ .
.
.
.+-4"4 -4 - - - -+-+-+-  - -+-+-+-++@- - -+- - -N I: tz  i z I =" I z  I z I z I =.
};-4" -  - - -+- - -+-.
.
.
.
.
+-  - +!4= + .
.
.
.
+ -+- - i4= ++-@-+-4" - -o==u~ ++-+-++4"+- -+-++- -4 - -e= - -+- - -4 - Ide - -?-4 - - - i4= -?- - -+-+- -.
I  > I~.z : l z~-ii + ?
?+- - \ ] r m ~  + + - + - + - 4. .
.
.
.
,~=-ear~2-+; ; - -  .++'-*- + ; - 4 .
-@-l|uW dkw==?
+ .
.
.
.
+ +I n t rans i t i ve  Verbs  (From Boons .
Gu i l ipP .
r~ l  "~ S, u i l l e t ,  5ec l~re  1976a)Table 1Although the 3 prepositions "zero",  a and de ere felt anddescribed as the basic ones by traditional grammarians, thedescriptions have never received any objective bee,s.
Thelexicon-grammar we have constructed provides s general picture ofthe shapes of obleCts tn French.
The numerical distr,butlon ofoblect patterns is given ,n table 2, according to their number in asentence and to thei r  preposlhonal  shape.N O VN O V N 1NoV&N 1N O V de N IN O V N 1 N 2N O V N 1 ~= N 2N O V N 1 de N 2NoV&N1 &N 2N O V & N 1 de N 2N O V de N 1 de N 2!
,8003,7003505001501,6001,9003101DISTRIBUTION OF OBJECTSTable 2AS can be seen on table 2, d i rec t  oblects are the most numerous inthe JPXlCOn.
Also, we have not observed a single example of verbswith 30b lec ts  according to our definit ion.In 2. and 3. we will make more precise the lexicel nature ofthe Nl's attached to the verbs.The signs in a row of the matrix provides the syntacticparadigm of a verb, that is, the sentence forms into which the verbmay enter.
The lexicon-grammar is in computer form.
Thus, bysorting the rows of signs, one can construct equivalence classes forverbs: Two verbs are in the same class if their two rows of signsare identical.We have obtained the following result: for 10,000 verbs thereare about 8,000 classes.On the average, each class contains 1.25 verb.
Thisstatistical result can easily be strengthened.
When one studies theclasses that contain more than one verb, it is always possible tofind syntactic properties not yet in the matrix and that willseparate the verbs.
Hence, it our description were extended, eachverb would have ?
unique syntactic paradigm.Thus, the correspondence between a verb morpheme end the set ofsentence forms where it may occur is one- to -one.Another way of stating this result is by saying that structuresdepend on individual lexical elements, which leads to the followingrepresentat ion of structures:N O eat  N 1N o owe N 1 to  N 2We still use class symbols to describe noun phrases, but specificverbs must appear in each structure.
Class symbols of verbs are nolonger used, since they cannot determine the syntactic behsviour ofindividual verbs.The nature of the lexicon-grammar should then become clearer.
Anentry of the lexicon-grammar of verbs is ?
simple sentence form withan explicit verb appearing in ?
row.
In general, the decleretivesentence is taken as the representative element of the equivalenceclass of s t ructures corresponding to the "+"  signs of a row.The lexicon-grammar suggests a new component for parsingalgorithms.
This component is limited to elementary sentences.
Itincludes the fol lowing steps:- (A) Verbs are morphological ly recognized in the input string.- (B) The dictionary is looked up, that is, the space of thelexicon-grammar that contains the verbs is searched for the inputverbs.- (C) A verb being located in the matrix, its rows of signs providea set of sentence forms.
These dictionary forms are matched withthe input string.This a lgor i thm is mcomplete in several respects :- In step (C).
matching one of the dictionary shapes with the inputstring may involve another component of the grammar.
The structuresrepresented in the lexicon-grammar are elementary structures,subject only to "unary" t rans format ions ,  in the sense of Harris'transformations or of early generative grammar (Chomsky 1955).Binary or generalized t rans format ions  apply to elementary sentencesand may change their appearance in the sentence under analysis (e.g.conjunction reduction).
As a consequence, their effect may have tobe taken into account in the matching process.276Looking up the matr ix dict ionary may result in the f inding ofseveral entries with same form (homographs) or of several uses of agiven entry.
We will see that these situations are quite common.in general, more than one pattern may match the input, mulbplepaths of analys is  are  thus  generated  and requ i re  book keeping.We will come back to these aspects of syntactic computation.We now present two other components of the lexicon-grammar of simplesentences .2 I D I O M SThe sentences we just described can be called free sentences,for the lexlcal choices Of nouns in each noun phrase N i hascertain degrees of freedom.
We use this distr ibutional feature toseparate free from frozen sentences, that is, from sentences with anid iomat ic  part .The main difference between free end frozen sentences can bes tated in te rms of the  d i s t r ibut ions  of nouns:- in a frozen nominal posibon, a change of noun either changes themean ing  of the  express ion  to an unre la ted  express ion  as into lay down one's arms vs to lay down one's feetor else, the variant noun does not introduce any difference inmean ing  (up to s ty l i s t i c  d i f fe rences) ,  as mto put someone off the (scent.
track, trai l)or else.
an idiomatic noun appears at the same level as ordinarynouns of the distr ibution, and the general  meaning of the (free)express ion  is p reserved ,  as into miss (an opportunity, the bus\]- in a free position, a change of noun introduces a change ofmeaning that does not affect the general meaning of the wholesentence.
For  example ,  the  two sentencesThe boy ate the appleMy sister ate the piethat d i f fer  by distr ibutional changes in subject and objectpositions have same general meaning: changes can be considered tobe localized to the arguments of the predicate or function withconstant  mean ing  EAT.We have systematically described the idiomatic sentences ofFrench, making use of the framework developed for the freesentences.
Sentential  idioms have been classified according to thenature (frozen or not) of their  arguments (subject and complements).With respect  to the structures of Table 2, a new classif icatoryfeature has been introduced: the poaslbdity for a f rozen noun ornoun phrase to accept a free noun complement.
Thus, for example, webuilt two classes CP1 and CPN corresponding to the two types ofconst ruct ionsN O V Prep C 1 : :  Jo plays on wordsN O V Prep Nhum'a C 1 =: Jo got on Sob's nervesThe symbol C refers  to a f rozen nominal posit ion and Prepstands fo r  p repos i t ion .Although frozen structures tend to undergo less transformationsthan the free forms, we found that every transformation that appliesto a f ree structure also applies to some frozen structures.
Thereis no qual i tat ive di f ference between free and f rozen structures fromthe syntactic point of view.
As a consequence, we can use the sametype of representation: a matrix where each idiomatic combinationof words appears in a row and each sentence shape m a column (of.Tables 3 and 4),I SiJJElS= mT','+ -+ -+ -+ -+ -?
-+ -+ -+ ++ -+ -?
-+ -+ -+ -.
_+ -?
,?
-?
-V(RB($ ADVEnES rIG(SVENIR DAMSPARTIR 5URDEMONTRER N A N PARPARTIR DANSDIRE NAN ~NTRICHERARRETER.$-.VENIR AESPERER N DEARRANGER N AOAGNER N AVENIR CONTREPARTIR AVENIR PARPATER N ACONSULTER N ACONSULTER N DANSCHOISIR N ADISCUTERBOIRE N AVANTSPECULER APARLERTRICHZR DEFONCER AAGIR ACUIRE N AFONCER ACUIRE N AACCEPTER N ENRIRE DELUTTER JUSOU'ACUIRE N $URFONCES ACUIP~ N AVENIR PARCUIRE N ACUIRE N ADORNIR ~NCUIRE N SOUSREMBOURSER N ALA "PERIODE"CEL' ABSURDEL' AFFIRMATIVEL' AIRPOSS-O AISEL' ALLERTOUTS ALLURETOUTE POSS-OL' AMIABLEL' ARRACHETOUTE ATTENTEL' AUBEL' AUTOSUSL' AVANCEL' AVENIRL' AVBNIRL' AVEUGLETTETOUT AZIP~TLA BAGARP~LA BAISSETOUT RASPLUS BELLETOUTS BERZINGUELE BESOINLE BEURRETOUTS BITURELE B015TOUTE BONNE FOITOUTS POSS-O BOUCHELE BOUTLA BRAISETOUTS BRIDELA BROCHELE BUSLE BUTAGAZLE BUTANETOUT CASLA CENDNELE CENTUPLEF rozen  adverbsTable 3We have systematically classified I15.000 idiomatic sentences, Whenone compares th l s  f igure with those of table 2', one must concludethat frozen sentences constitute one of the most importantcomponents  of the  lex icon-grammar .An important lexlcal feature of frozen sentences should bes t ressed.
There  are  examples  such asThey went astray ?where words such as astray cannot be found io any othersyntactical ly unre lated sentence; not ice that the causative sentenceThe# led them astrayIs considered as syntactical ly related.
In this case, theexpression can be direcly recogmzed by dictionary look-up.
Butsuch examples are rare.
In general,  a frozen expression is ?compound of words that are also used in free expressmns wJthunrelated meanings.
Hence, frozen sentences are in generalambiguous, having an ~dmmahc meaning and a literal meaning.277However, the hteral meanings are almost always mcongruous In thecontext where the idlomahc meamng is mtended (unless of coursetr:e author of the utterance played on words).
Thus, when a wordcombination that constitutes an idiom is encountered m a text, oneIS practically ensured that the corresponding meaning is theid iomat ic  one,I0 !
I; ; I  " Io HI uN* ?
CONNAITRECOMNAITRECO~NAZTRENE CONNAITRE PAS: NE CONNAITRE OURCONSERVERSE CONTEKPLERCOUPERDEBLOQUERDETENIRDIST ILLERDOMINERDRESSERErfl)OSSERENFONCER?TRE .
N PASETRE .
N PASETRE .
N FASETRE .
S DITFAIREFAIREFAIREFAZREi FAIREFAIRE\] FAIREj FAIREFAIREI FAI~J FAIRE ENTENDREFAIRE PASSERFAIRE SAUTERFERVORFLETRIRFORCERFOR~RFORMERFORMERFORNERFRANCHIRI!
II | ' \]-~ .E.
'3 .=~I- * L?
COUP- - POSS-?
i i DOULEUR - + L?
TRUC- - POSS-~ BONH?UR- - - CA- - POSS-?
CHgHISEr - - LE NOMBRZL- .
det SITUATION+ - LA VERITELE VENIN- + LE LOTJ- , POSS-(P - ?
BATTERTESJ - ~ LE HARNOIS  - ~ LE CLOU - .
UNE LUHIEREi: NORT 'NC"OTi i !
Tout N BRIN DE TOILETTEGRISE  MZN~HARA-K IR IJURISPRUDENCE; -  + UN?
NINUTE DE SILENCENO~BRE:- + DET OPERATION PORTE OUVERTE- - DU QUARANTE CINO F ILLETTETAP IST INT IN- - POSS-~ VOIX- - DET ENFANT- - DET ENFANT- * POS$-~ PORTES- + DET CRIME_ _ LA CHANCE- + L?
CARRE- ~ DET NUNERO- + DET NUNERO DE TELEPHONE- .
LES PANGSi - .
DET CAPFrozen  sentencesTable 4Returmng to the algorithm sketched in 1, we see that we haveto middy  steps (A) and (B) in order to recognize frozenexpress ions :- NOt only verbs, but nouns have to be immediately located in theinput  s t r ing .- The verbs and the nouns columns of the lexicon-grammar of frozenexpress ions  have to be looked up for  combinat ions  of words.It Js mterestmg to note that there is no ground for stating apriordy such as look up verbs before nouns or the reverse.
Rather,the nature of frozen forms suggests simultaneous searches for thecompos ing  words.About the diHerence between free and frozen sentences, we haveobserved that many free sentences (if not all) have highlyrestricted nominal posdlons.
Consider for example the entryN O smoke N t =nJo smokes the finest tobaccoIn the direct object complement, one will find few other nouns:nouns of other smoking material, objects made of smoking materialsuch as cigarette,  cigar,  pipe and brand names forthese oblects.
This is a common situation with technical verbs.Such examples suggest that, semantically at least, the nominalarguments are hal ted to one noun, which comes close to having thestatus of f rozen expression.
Thus, to smoke would have hereone complement,  perhaps tobacco, and all o ther  nouns occurr ingm its place would be brought in by syntactic operations.
Weconsider that this s ituatmn is quite general  although not alwaystransparent.
Our analysis of free elementary sentences has shownthat when subjects and Oblects allow wide variations for theirnouns, then well def ined syntactic operations account for thevar ia t ion :- separation of entries: For example, there  is another verbN O smoke Nt,  as m They smoke meat, and a th i rd  one:N O smoke N 1 out in They smoked the room out; orcons ider  the  verb  to eat inRust ate both rear wings of my carThis verb  will const i tute  an ent ry  d i f fe rent  of the  one in to eatlamb;various zerolngs: The following sentence pairs will be relatedby d i f fe rent  de le t ions :Bob ale s nrce preparat ion= Bob ale a nice preparat ion of lambBob ate a whole bakery= Bob ate a whole bakery of apple piesOther operations introduce nouns in syntactic positions wherethey  are  fo re ign  to the  semant ic  d i s t r ibut ions ,  among them areralsmg operat ions,  which induce distr ibut ional  d i f ferences suchasI imagined the situationI imagined the br idge destroyedsituation is the  "natura l "  d i rec t  ob lec t  of to imagine,whi le  brrdge ts der ived ;- other  restructurat ion operat ions (Gull let, Lecl~re 1981), asbetween the  two sentencesThis conf i rmed B ib ' s  opinion of JoThis conf i rmed Bob m his opinion of JoAlthough the full lexicon of French has not yet been analyzedfrom this point of view, we can plausibly assert that a targe classof nommal distributions could be made semantically regular by usingZ.S.
Har r i s '  account  of e lementary  d i s t r ibut ions ,  namely ,  bydetermin ing  a basic fo rm for  each mean ing ,  for  exampleA person eats  foodwith undetermined human subject  and character ist ic  object,  and by278introducing classificatory sentences that describeuniverse:(The boy, My s ister)  ia ?
person, etc.the semantic(A pie, This cake) is food, etc.Classificatory and basic sentences are combined by syntacticoperations such asrelatlvizstion:The person who is the boy eats food which is this pieWH-ia deletion:The person the boy eats food this pieredundancy removal:The boy eats this pieIn this way, the semantic variations are explicitly attributedto lexical variations, and not to intuitive abstract features, thatis, arbitrary features, or acmes or the like.
The requirement ofusing WORDS in such descriptions is a crucial means for controllingthe construction of an empirically adequate linguistic system.
Inthis respect, one is led to categorizing words by evaluating actualclassificatory sentences.
Hence, all the knowledge linguisticallyexpressible (i.e.
in terms of words) is represented by both thebasic and the classificatory sentences.
A good deal of theinferences that one has to draw in order to understand sentences eracontained in the derivations that lead to the seemingly simplesentences.From a formal point of view, the entries of the lexicon-grammarbecome much more specifi~ We have eliminated class symbolsaltogether, replacing them by specific nouns <5>.
Entries are thenof the type{persen) 0 eat (food) 1(person) 0 ;We (ObleCt) 1 to (person) 2(per=ran) 0 k~ck the bucketAn application of this representation of simple sentences is thetreatment of certain metaphors.
Consider the two sentences(1) Jo f i l led the turkey with truf f les(2) Jo f i l led his report  with poor jokes(1) is a proper use of fo f i l l ,  while (2) is ?
metaphoric orfigurative meaning.
The properties of these sentences varyaccording to the lexical choices in the complements {Boons 1971).For example, the with-complement that can be occupied by aninternal noun in the proper meaning can be omitted:Jo t i l led the turkey with ?
certain f i l l ing= Jo f i l led the turkey5 It is doubtful that actual nouns such as food will beavailable in the language for each distribution of each entry, butthen, expressions such as smoking stuff can be used {in theobject of to smoke), again avoiding the use ot abstractfeatures.iThis is not the case in the f igurative meaning:*Jo f i l led hie reportHow to represent (1) and (2) is a problem in terms of number ofentries.
On the one hand, the two constructions have commonsyntactic and semantic features, on the other, they eresignificantly different in form and content.
Setting up two entriesis ?
solution, but not a satisfactory one, since both entries areleft unrelated.
A possible solution in the framework oflexicon-grammars is to consider having just one entry:N O fill N 1 with N 2and to specify N t lexJcally by means of columns of the matrix.For exampleN 1 =: foodN t =: text11~en, the content of N 2 is largely determined end has to beroughly of the typeN 2 =: stuf f ingN 2 =: eubtextAn inclusion relation <6> holds between the two complements.
We canwrite for this relationN 2 is in N 1But now, in our parsing procedure, we have to compensate forthe tact that in the lexicon-grammar, the nouns that are representedin the free positions ere not the ones that in general occur in theinput sentences.
In consequence, occurrences of nouns will have toundergo a complex process of identification that will determinewhether they have been introduced by syntactic operations (e.g.restructuration), or by chains of substitutions defined byclassif icatory sentences, or by both processes.3.
SUPPORT AND OPERATOR VERB8We have alluded to the tact that only ?
certain class ofcontences could be reduced to entries of the lexicon-gremmr aspresented in 1. and 2.
We will now give examples of simplesentences that have structures different of the structures of freeand frozen sentences, in sentences such as(1) Her remarks made no d i f ference(2) Her remarks have some (importance for, influence) on Jo(3) Her remarks ere in contradict ion with your planit is di f f icult  to argue that the verbs to make, to haveand to be in semantically select their subjects endcomplement& Rather, these verbs should be considered asauxiliaries.
The predicative element is here the nominal form incomplement position.
This intuition can be given a formal basis.Let us look at nominalizationa s being relations between two simplesentences (Z.S.
Harris 1964), as in6 This relation is an extension of the Vaup relations of 3.To f i l l  could be considered as a (causative) Vop.279Max walked: Max look a walkHer remarks are important for  Jo= Her remarks are of a certain importance for Jo= Her remarks have s certain importance for JoJo resembles Max: Jo has a certain resemblance with Max= Jo (bears.
car r ies)  a certain resemblance with Max-- There is a certain resemblance between Jo and MaxIt is then clear that the roots walk, important andresemble select the other noun phrases.
We call support verbs(Vsup) the verbs in such sentences that have no selectionalfunction, Some support verbs are semantically neutral, othersintroduce modal or aspectual meanings, as for example inBob loves Jo= Bob Is in love with Jo= Bob fel l  in love with Jo= Bob has a deep love for Joto tall, as other motion verbs do, introduces an inchoativemeaning.
In this example, the mare semantm relation holds betweenBob and love, and the support verbs simply add theirmeaning to the relation.If we use s dependency tree to schematize the relations insimple sentences, we can oppose ordinary verbs with one obleCt andsupport verbs of superficially identical structures such as inf igure 1:describedMa~x loveBo b ' s ~ ~  JoTwo problems arise in connection with the distribution of supportverbs:- s noun or a nommalized verb accepts a certain set of supportverbs and this set varies with each nominal;not every verb is a support verb; thus in the sentence(4) Max descr ibed Bob'a love for Joto descr ibe is not a Vsup.
The question is then to del imitthe set of Vaups, if such a set can be isolated, or else toprovide general  condit ions under which s verb acts as a Vaup,One of the structural features that separates support verbsfrom other verbs is the possibility of clefting noun complements.For example, for Jo is a noun complement of the same type inboth structures,  but we observe*If  is for  Jo that Max descr ibed Bob'a loveIt is for  Jo that Bob has a deep loveThe main semantic difference between the two constructions lies inthe cyclic structure of the graph.
This cyclic structure is alsofound in more complex sentences such as(5) This note put her remarks in contradiction with yourplan(6) Bob gave a certain importance to her remarksBoth verbs fo put and to give have two complements,exactly as in sentences such as(7) Bob put (the book) 1 (in the drawe~| 2(8) Bob gave (e book) t (to Jo) 2Whde in (7) and (8), there is no evidence of any formal relationbetween both complements, in (5) and (6) we find dependenciesalready observed on support verbs (cf.
f igure 2).gaveB ?
~ m s r k shasBJ  oveputThe notre ~ her remarks, in contra~ctmn\with your planFigure I F igure 2280The verbs to put and to give are semantically minimal, forthey only introduce s causative and/or an agentive argument withrespect to the sentence with Vsup.
We call such verbs operatorverbs (Vop).
There are other operator verbs that add variousmodaltties to the minimal meanings, as inThe note introduced a contradiction between her remarksand your planBob attributed a certain importance to her remarksOther syntactic shapes are lound:Bob credsted her remarks with a certain importanceAgain, the set of nouns (supported by o Vsup) to which theVops apply vary from verb to verb.
As a consequence, we have torepresent the distr ibutions of Vsups and Vops with respect tonominals by means of a matrix such as the one in Table 4'.In each row, we place a noun and each column contains a support verbor an operator verb.
A preliminary classification of Ns (andV-ns) has been made in terms of a few elementary support verbs(e.g.
to have, to be Prep).In a sense, this representation is symmetrical with therepresentation of free sentences.
With free sentences, the verb istaken as the central item of the sentence.
Varying then the nounsallowed with the verb does not change fundamentally the meaning ofthe corresponding sentences.
With support verbs, the central itemis a noun.
Varying then the support verbs only introduces adistr ibut ional- l ike change in meaning.The recognition procedure has to be modified, in order toaccount for this component of the language:- first, the took-up procedure must determine whether s verb is anordinary verb (i.e.
an entry found in a row of the lexicon-grammar)or a Vaup or a Vop, which are to be found in columns;- simultaneously, nouns have to be looked up in order to cheektheir combination with support verbs.4.
CONCLUSIONWe have shown that simple sentence structures were of variedtypes.
At the same time, we have seen that their representation interms of the entries of traditional " l inear"  dictionaries, that is,In terms of words alphabetically or otherwise ordered, isinadequate.
An improvement appears to involve the look-up oftwo-dimensional patterns, for example the matrices we proposed forfrozen sentences and their generalization to support verbs andoperator verbs.
More generally, syntactic structures are determinedby combinat|ons of a verb morpheme with one or more nounmorpheme(s).
Hence, the general way to access the lexicon will haveto be through the selectional matrix of Tables 3 and 4,In practice, syntactic computations are context-freecomputations in natural language processing.
Context-freealgorithms have been studied in many respects by computerscientists, theoreticians and speciahsts ot programming languages.The principles of these algorithms are clearly understood andcurrently in use, even for natural languages where new problemsarise because of the numerous ambiguities and the variousterminologies attached to each theoret ical  viewpoint.The tact that context-free recognition is a mastered techniquehas certainly contributed to the shaping of the grammars used inautomatic parsing.
The numerous sample grammars presented so farare practically all context-tree.
There is also a deep linguisticreason for building context-free grammars: natural languages useembedding processes and tend to avoid discontinuous structures.Much less attention has been peJd to the complex syntacticphenomena occurring Jn simple sentences and to the organization ofthe lexicon.
The tact that we could not separate the syntacticproperties of verbs from their lexical features has led us toconstruct a representation for linguistic phenomena which is morespecJhc than the current context-free models.
A context-freecomponent will still be useful in the parsing procesS, but it willbe relevant only to embedded structures found in complex sentences,with not much incidence on meaning,To summarize, the syntactic patterns are determined by pairs(verb, noun):- the frozen sentence N O k~ck the bucket Js thus ent irelyspecified, whi le the pair (take, bull) needs to bedisambiguated by the second complement by the horns, requiringthus a more complex device to be identif ied;(take, walk) and (take, food) are supportsentences, so are (have, faith) and (have, food);the verbs have, kick and take together withconcrete obiect select ordinary sentence forms.But the selectional process for structures may not be direct.The words in the previously discussed pairs may not appear in theinput text.
Words appearing in the input are then related to thewords in the selectJonal matrix by:cfassifJcatlonal relations:food classifies cake, soup, etc.concrete obiect classifies ball, chair, etc.- relations between support sentences, such asJo (had, took,threw out) some foodJo (took, was out for, went out for) a walkJo (has, keeps, looses) faith in Bobrelations between support and operator sentences:Thie gave to Jo faith in BobAll these relations in fact add a third dimension to theselectional matrix.The complete selectional device is now a complex network ofrelations that cross-relates the entries.
It will have to beorganized in order to optimize the speed of parsing algorithms.281REFERENCESBoons, J.-P, 1971.
Metaphore et balsse de la redondance, Languetran~a/se 11, ParDs: Larousse, pp.
15-t6,Boons, J., GuHlet, A. and Lecl~re, Ch.
1976a.
La structure desphrases slmples en trancals.
Constructions intrans/hvea,Droz, Geneva, 377 p.Boons, J., Gutllet, A. and Lecl~re, Ch.
1976b.
La structure desphrases simplea en franFals.
Clas~ea de constructionstransitives, Rapport de recherches NO 6, Paris: UniversityParis 7, L.A.D.L., t43 p.Freckleton, P. 1984.
A Systemahc Classlhcation of FrozenExpressions in English?
Doctoral Thesis, University ofParis 7, L.A.D.L.Glry-Schnelder, J.
1978.
Lea nommahsations en franFala.L'op~rateur FAIRE, Geneva: Droz, 414 p.Gross.
M. 1975.
M#thodes en ayntaxe, Paris: Hermann, 414 p.Gross, Maunce 1982.
Une classificatmn des phrases tig~es dufran|:a=s, Revue qudb#coise de hngulstlque, Vol.
11, No 2,Montreal : Presses de I'Universitb du Quebec & Montreal,pp.
151-18,5.Gulllet, A. and Leclbre.
Ch.
1981.
Restructuratlon du groupenom0nal, Langagea, Par=s : Larousse, pp, 99-125.Harris, Z.S.
1964.
The elementary Tranformations, Transformationsand Discourse Analysis Papers 54, m Harris, Zeltig 5.
1970,Papers m Structural and Transformational Linguratics,Reldel, Dordrecht.
pp.
482-532.Harris, Zeltig 1983.
A Grammar of Enghsh on MathematicalPr inciples,  New York : Wiley Intersc=ence,429 p.Meumer, A.
1'377.
Sur les bases syntaxlques de la morphologledGrlvatlonnelle, Lingv;stlcae Investlgatlones 1:2, JohnBenlamms B.V., Amsterdam, pp.
287-331.i'l(~g ron=-Peyre, D. 1978.
Nommalisations par ETRE EN etr~flexJvatlon, Lingvlstlcae Investlgationea I1:1, JohnBenlamms B.V., Amsterdam, pp, 127-163.282
