Some Pragmatic Issues in the Planning of Definite and IndefiniteNoun PhrasesDoug las  E.  Appe l tAr t i f i c ia l  In te l l igence  Center ,  SR I  In ternat iona landCenter  for  the  S tudy  o f  Language and  In format ionStanford  Un ivers i ty1 In t roduct ionIn this paper we examine the pragmatic knowledge anutterance-planning system must have in order to producecertain kinds of definite and indefinite noun phrases.
Anutterance.planning system, like other planning systems,plans actions to satisfy an agent's goals, but allows someof the actions to consist of the utterance of sentences.
Thisapproach to language generation emphasizes the view oflanguage as action, and hence assigns a critical role to prag-matics.The noun phrases under consideration i this paper arethose that presuppose the existence of an individual thatcould be described by the description D. In other words,when a speaker uses a noun phrase with description P, itmakes sense to ask the question "Which x is P?
~ This cri-terion includes more than strictly referential uses of nounphrases, because it is not necessary for the speaker or hearerto k'now what individual is described by D - -  it is merelynecessary that the existence of such an individual is pre-supposed.
Consider the attributive description in sentence(l}:The runner who wins tomorrow's race will qualify(I) for the semifinals.The description "runner who wins tomorrow's race" cannotbe referential, because, under ordinary circumstances, thespeaker could not possibly know who it is that wouid fit thedescription.
Nevertheless, it is still reasonable to ask whichrunner will win tomorrow's race, because the description isobjectively true of some individual.This qualification excludes noun phrases whose referentsare bound within the scope of a universal quantifier, suchas "the woman ..." in(2) Every man wants to meet the woman of his dreams.For a similar reason, indefinites within the scope of a sen-tential negation axe excluded because they introduce anexistential quantifier, which, under the scope of negation,is really a universal quantifier.
Therefore, "a screwdriver"in(3) John does not have a screwdriver.is excluded because, under most circumstances of its use,there is no screwdriver that the description in sentence (3)denotes.
Predicate nnminal~ are excluded, as in the sen-tence(4) John wants to be a doctor.because one would not ask the question "Which doctor doesJohn want to be?
*The choice of this particular class of noun phrases is mo-tivated by considerations relevant to planning.
When aspeaker communicates with a hearer, he often intends thehearer to hold some attitudes toward individuals in the do-main.
This is particularly true in task-oriented ialogueswhere the hearer may have to locate and manipulate thingsin his environment.The theory of utterance planning assumed for the pur-pose of this analysis is the one embodied in KAMP lAp-pelt, 1985).
Individuals are represented by terms in anintensional logic of knowledp~e and acti,m.
A metalanguageis used to axiomatize the relationship that holds betweenthe terms and the individuals they denote.
The terms canconsist of predicates combined with an iota operator, as inLz D(z), whereD{z) = D,(z)  A .
.
.A  D.(.c).The predicates O~ are called descriptor.9, and their conjunc-tion.
D, is called a description.
Because most noun phrasesemploy terms that are constructed from ;x description, oftenthe words "term" and "description ~ aro ,,sed interchange-ably.The propositional content ~,f the spe;~ker'~ ltterance isrepresented by a sentence in the intensi~,nal \[ogm involvingthe terms discussed above.
Uttering a sentence ntails per-forming a number of actions, called concept activation ac-tions, which result in the terms constituting the propositionreceiving a special status called "active. "
The proposition198that the speaker intends to convey is a predication involv-ing the active terms.
Referring is a particular type of con-cept activation action with relatively strict conditions onwhat must be mutually believed by the speaker and hearerfor the action to succeed.
Searle {1969) presents an anal-ysis of referring as a speech act and dismisses many usesof noun phrases as nonreferring.
Such nonreferring nounphrases occur very frequently, and the considerations thatunderly their planning share much in common with thosethat underly actual referring.
Therefore, the concept acti-vation action provides a suitable generalization that allowsa plan-based treatment of many more  uses of noun phrases.2 Research ObjectivesThe analysis presented in this paper represents one of thefirst steps toward a plan-based account of definite and in-definite noun phrases.
Ideally, such an account would (1)provide a semantics for noun phrases, (2) define an actionslike "uttering a definite noun phrase, ~and (3) provide ananalysis that shows how the speaker's intentions follow di-rectly from the semantics of the noun phrase he utters,plus conditions on mutual knowledge and general princi-ples of rationality.
This program is very much in the spiritof the analysis of illocutionary acts provided by Cohen andLevesque (1980), who demonstrate how illocutionary actscan be defined in terms of the kinds of inferences made,given a semantic analysis of an utterance, facts about mu-tual knowledge, and general principles of rational behavior.Cohen ( 1984} provided such an analysis for referring ac-tions by postulating a semantics for the definite determinerthat would give the semantics of a definite noun phrase asa request to identify the referent of a description.
Thisanalysis would be impossible to extend to the more gen-eral concept activation actions, because, in some cases, thespeaker intends that the hearer not identify the denota-tion of the description, even when a definite noun phrase isused.
A complete analysis along these lines that subsumesboth referring and nonreferring noun phrases has yet to beworked out.As an intermediate step toward this ultimate goal, weshall propose a taxonomy of concept activation actions thatconvey the various intentions a speaker may have with re-spect to a hearer and a description.
This taxonomy is oftheoretical interest, because it characterizes differences andsimilarities among uses of noun phrases that current theo-ries do not characterize.
It is also of practical interest forutterance planning, because the set of actions to be pro-posed provides a useful level of abstraction for the reason-ing processes of an utterance-planning system.
For exam-ple.
certain planning strategies such as action subsumption{Appelt.
1985} axe applicable only to certain kinds of con-cept activation actions and not to others.
Therefore, even ifthe complete plan-based analysis of noun ph~ is workedout, the taxonomy of actions presented here will still be ofpractical importance.Until an analysis like Cohen and Levesque's is workedout, the concept activation actions here will be treated likeillocutionary acts in a speech-act theory.
When a hearerunderstands an utterance, he reasons about whether it con-stitutes an assertion, a request, a warning, etc.
Therefore,understanding one of the definite or indefinite noun phrasesunder consideration i this paper is assumed to entail recog-nition of what concept activation action the speaker intendsto perform.3 Summary of Actions UnderlyingNoun PhrasesThere are many distinctions that one could draw betweennoun phrases, only some of which are relevant o planning.For example, one could distinguish noun phrases that referto amorphous ubstances from those that refer to discreteentities.
Such a distinction may have some valid motiva-tion, but it is not necessarily so from the standpoint ofplanning.
It would be well motivated only if there werea clear difference in the preconditions and effects of theconcept activation actions-underlying mass terms, or in thestrategy for the selection of descriptors.
This does not seemto be the case for mass versus discrete ntities.However, there are two criteria that clearly affect the rel-evant preconditions, intended effects, and planning strate-gies of concept activation actions: {l) whether the speakerintends that the hearer identify the denotation of the de-scription, and {2) how much mutual knowledge the speakerand hearer share about the description's denotation.
Thefirst criterion is what {roughly} distinguishes referring nounphrases from nonreferring noun phrases.
The necessity, ofthe hearer performing the identification constrains the de-scription to be one that facilitates the hearer's formulationof a plan to do so.The second criterion is the knowledge that is sharedby the speaker and the hearer at the time of the utter-ance.
Planning strategies are influenced by whether or notthe speaker and hearer mutually believe appropriate factsabout the intended referent.
In particular, if the speakerand hearer share enough knowledge about the descriptionsdenotation and the contextual situation, it may be possiblefor the hearer to recognize the speakers intenrt,~as usingonly a subset of the descriptors in the n~mn phrase's de-scription.
In such a situation, the speaker an augmentthe description with additional descriptors for tile purposeof informing the hearer that they are true ,ff the denota-tion of the other part of the description.
Such a ~trate~' iscalled action anbaurnption, {Appeit, i985).
The action sub-sumption strategy cannot be used with concept activationactions that are not based on shared knowledge.Since there are two dimensions relevant to ,:haracteriz-ing concept activation actions, it is possible to define four199I de~t  * r , ca t  *anIn tent*onNS!Tyuw o i  r nov  ohrD l~ ?
i?
e fgc~t*a | ,  g t t r  ,bog ,  vq .de l lm*te  mtd  *ndef i~| ta .P IM* I *S  s i r  i l es$~ *UNC.
I  d~.cr ,o l *e*  ~*?
deer ,  ' *?o?
**~ a lan~bsu~t  e **  *ntemt  **nsreCOSn*Sed ** lv  e#te~no  ~h~ret l  ,dm~t~f~?~t*e*  i s  caN| I t *Tvae  e f  .e~ ~hrwses  T~ e f  noun DhrsSe~R i f~mt* l | .
~w~l~i r tn t te .
f l t t r tb~t tve ,  de f*~l t t  ~?
ndef tn~ to .p |m~t  ,~1 s t r  e | l~ J~t  P |m,~J  s t~et4~J~ e|a fe?
lmt*ve  ~r~Gt  lea  ~f f  ~?tm~t  d~rscr * Og *NSNI 5NIs|fvae  or  noun O~r~e~hr .=At ,e l ,  d*?
,~, tu,nc iud ,*~ dGaenst re t*ves .P I~n *n*J s t rmteSY*?
f f , c ie~t  ,dent , rv ,ng  dncr l : s*~~bsweot ,  **  bess*  h ie~ e dFigure I: Four Types of Concept Activation Actionsactions, as illustrated in Figure 1.
These actions are SI(shared concept activation with identification intention),NSI (nonshared concept activation with identification in-tention), SNI (shared concept activation with no identifi-cation intention), and NSNI (nonshared concept activationwith no identification intention.)
Each action has distinctpreconditions, effects, and an assocated planning strategy.4 Mutua l  Knowledge  andIdent i f icat ionThe two most important considerations in planning con-cept activation actions axe (1) whether or not the speakerintends the hearer to identify the referent of the descriptionand (2} what knowledge about the description's possible de*notations the speaker and hearer share.What it means for an agent to "identify ~ the referent ofa description is a topic of considerable conplexity.
Seaxle(1969) sta~es that "So identification ... rests squarely onthe speaker's ability to supply an expression ... which issatisfied uniquely by the object to which he intends to re-fer."
What  counts as an identifying description depends onthe purpose for which the agent is identifying the descrip-tion:s denotation.
For example, the description that onemust know to carry out a plan requiring the identificationof ~John's residence" may be quite different depending onwhether one is going to visit him, or mail him a letter.
If Iwant to speak to a guest at a Halloween party, I need onlya description capable of distinguishing him from the otherguests at the party, not to know who it really is wearingthe disguise.Identification of the denotation of a term D is thereforedefined as finding another term /P (called a prima facie(PF) identifiable term) that has the same denotation as/~according to the bearer's knowledge, but that meets certainsyntactic criteria for being the "right kind" of term.
It isstipulated that any two distinct PF  identifiable terms mustdenote different individuals in the same situation.
The sim-plest criterion for PF  identifiability that meets this require-ment is that the term be a 81andsrd name.
Because eachstandard name denotes the same individual in any context,knowing that a particular standard name is equivalent toa term implies that the agent knows the denotation of theterm.
Furthermore, any two distinct standard names de-note different individuals.The standard name approach was taken by the KAMPsystem.
The standard name assumption has two difficul-ties.
First, it is extremely implausible to believe that anagent has a unique name for anything that can be referredto.
Also, knowing a standard name implies having madean absolute identification.
Therefore, to refer to a guest ata costume party, it is a consequence of successful identifi-cation that the speaker and the hearer mutually know theidentity of the person in the disguise, which is obviouslytoo strong a condition for successful reference.
Developingadequate criteria for PF  identifiable terms is an importantresearch problem; however, none of the points in this paperdepend on what the criteria for PF  identifiability are.The importance of mutual belief to the successful use ofreferring expressions was demonstrated by Clark and Mar-shall (1981).
It was shown by a series of rather complexexamples that, if one did not observe an infinite numberof preconditions of the form "A believes that B believesthat A believes that B believes ... description P appliesto R," then it is impossible to guarantee that descriptionD can be used to refer felicitously to R, because it wouldalways be possible to construct some set of circumstancesin which the hearer would believe the speaker intended torefer to something else.
Perrau\[t and Cohen (1981) showthat a s}ightly weaker condition is adequate: the mutualbelief preconditions have to hold in all but a finite numberof cases.
Nadathur and Josh| (1983) adopt a s(rat%oS" thatamounts to assuming that if D is believed to apply to R.then it is also mutually believed to apply to R unless thereis reason to believe that it is not.The case for some form of mutual belief ~ a prerequisiteto a successful referring action is strong; however, spoakersoRen use noun phrases that should be analyzed .~s r,~fcren-tial in which it is clear from the context hat.
n(~l ~ml.v i~ thedescription ot mutually believed tc~ h~d,l ~)f 'he }nt,m,ledreferent, but the speaker knows this is the ,':me ~vhcn heplans the utterance.
For example, consider a situation inwhich the speaker is giving instructions to the hearer andsays(5) Turn left at the third block past the ~toplight.This utterance might be reasonable ven if the hearer hadnever been to the intersection in question and the speakerand hearer have no mutual belief at the time of the utter-ance about the location to which the speaker intends to200refer.
The hearer knows that the speaker can formulate aplan at the time of the utterance that will guarantee thathe will have identified the referent of the description at thetime that it is needed.This observation is one motivation for the distinctiondra~n along the horizontal axis of Figure 1.
There arereally' two kinds of definite referring actions: one is that inwhich the precondition is mutual knowledge of a descrip-tion.
and the other in which there is mutual knowledge ofa plan incorporating the description to acquire additionalknowledge.5 Definitions of ConceptActivation ActionsThis section discusses each of the four major types of con-,-ept activation actions outlined in Section 3.
The defi-nitions of the actions are not stated rigorously, but areintended to give the reader an intuitive understanding oftheir preconditions and effects, and how they differ fromeach other.5.1 Shared Concept Activation withIdentif ication Intent ion (SI)These actions are the only type of concept activation ac-ti,ms that were considered in the earlier KAMP research.SI actions are used most frequently in referring to pastevents and objects that are not perceptually accessible tothe hearer.
In such situations, the hearer can perform few,if any.
actions to acquire more knowledge that would enable?
him to identify' the referent of a description whose referentwa~ not already mutually known at the time of the utter-am'l,.SI Act ion:  The speaker S performs action SI with hearerH and term DPrecond i t ions :  There is some term D' which is PF identi-fiable; S and H mutually believe that Denotation(D} =Denotation(O').Effect: H knows that S intends that the term D' be active,The preconditions of this action depend strictly on themutual belief of the speaker and the hearer at the time ofthe utterance.
The noun phrase in a sentence such aa(6) Use the same wrench you used to unfasten the pump.must arise from this type of action in normal situations ofits use.
because the description, based on a past event, doesnot facilitate any kind of plan for acquiring more informa-tion.When planning an utterance, the speaker knows the PFidentifiable term, and his problem is to get the hearer torecognize the same term.
Consistency with the Griceanmaxim of quantity requires that the planned description beas simple or efficient as possible.
There are several waysto measure the complexity of a description, including thenumber of descriptors involved and the ease with whichthese descriptors can be incorporated into the utterance.When planning an SI action, the planner's most importanttask is reasoning about the efficiency of the description.Concept activation actions that involve shared beliefabout the denotation of the description at the time of theutterance have the property that they are candidates foraction subsumption.
Because the information required toperform the identification can be communicated through asubset of the descriptors in the noun phra.se, or extralin-guistically through pointing actions or strong contextualcues, and because the preconditionDenotation(D) = Denotation(D')is known to hold, the speaker can use the additional de-scriptors to inform the hearer that the dos,'riptors are trueof the intended referent.5.2 Nonshared Concept Activation withIdenti f icat ion Intent ion (NSI)This action is what a speaker does when he wants to refer toan object that is not known to the hearer, or for which thespeaker and hearer do not mutually believe enough proper-ties at the time of the utterance so that identification cantake place based on mutual knowledge.NS I  Act ion:  The speaker S performs acti,,n NSI withhearer H and term P.P recond i t ions :  S and H mutually believe that there issome plan P such that, if H executes P. then in the re-sulting state, there exists a \['F identifiable term P' suchthat H knows that Denotation(Pl = Dem;tation(DI),and 5" intends that H execute P.Eff~:ts: H knows that S intends that /) be active.The NSl action is used in situations in which ,'he speakerand hearer do not mutually know the denotation of the de-scription, yet.
to realize the perlocutionary eff,.,:ts of theutterance, the hearer must be able to identify tile speaker'~intended referent.
This lack of mutual knowledge may oc-cur if the speaker can identify the referent from the de-scription, but the hearer cannot, as is most likely the casein example (5).
Also, as is the case in example (7), thespeaker may not be able to identify the referent, but nev-ertheless knows of a plan the hearer can execute that willlead to.
the identification of the referent at the appropriatetime.
(7) Get me the largest tomato from the garden.201The speaker of sentence (7) is uttering an attributive de-scription, because he is probably not referring to a partic-ular tomato, but to whatever tomato fits his description.However, it is conceivable that he had a particular tomatoin mind, and chose that description because he believed itwould lead to the best plan for the hearer to identify it,and would, in that case, be referential.
One can see fromthis example that the referential-attributive distinction isorthogonal to the distinctions motivated by utterance plan-ning, In both referential and attributive cases, the speakerknows that the right conditions on mutual knowledge arenot satisfied for an SI action, and plans a description thathe knows the hearer can use successfully.
It does not mat-ter to the planner whether the description is referential orattributive - -  the same reasoning takes place in both caseswith the same results.The NSI action depends on the hearer's ability to find theplan P. Therefore, the speaker must plan to furnish infor-mation as part of P that will make it as easy as possible forthe hearer to formulate his plan.
If the hearer has enoughinfomation to formulate P, then P is a useful description.It is possible for a speaker to formulate a description that,although it denotes the individual the speaker has in mind,is not useful because there is no plan the hearer can formu-late to take advantage of the description.
An example ofsuch a nonuseful description would be if S and H are ridinga bus, H asks at what stop he should get off, to which Sreplies tone stop before I do /  The description "one stopbefore \[ do, ~ while being true of a unique location, is nota useful description, assuming that the hearer has recourseonly to observing the speaker's actions.The reader may wonder if an SI action can be regarded asa degenerate case of the NSI action.
In the case of the NSIaction, the speaker and hearer mutually know of a plan thatwill result in identification of the intended referent, and inthe case of the S\[ action, the plan is simply to do nothing,because the referent of the term is already mutually known.This is not the case, because the precondition of the SIaction is that the speaker and hearer mutually believe boththe description in the noun phrase and the PF identifiabledescription.
In the case of the NSI action, the speaker andhe=rer mutually believe that executing plan P will resultin the hearer acquiring the required information, but, sinceonly the hearer is actually executing the plan, the speakerand hearer may never meet the mutual belief condition ofthe SI action.
Therefore it is possible to have an NSI actionwith a null plan, which is not equivalent o an SI actionwith the same description.
For example, suppose a speakerwants a son to deliver an envelope to his father, and makesthe request(8) Give this to your father.a~though the speaker does not know who the son's fatheris.
In sentence (8) the speaker is using the description at-tributively because he has no particular individual in mind,just whoever fits the description.
Furthermore, the speakerassumes that the son is capable of identifying his own fa-ther on the basis of knowledge he already has; therefore theplan for the hearer to identify the description is to do noth-ing.
This is different from the SI action, in which there issome individual who is mutually believed to be the hearer'sfather.5.3 Shared Concept Activation with NoIdentif ication Intent ion (SNI)When a speaker performs an SNI action, he provides a de-scription, but he does not intend that the hearer try toidentify its denotation.
Therefore, the SNI action is not areferring action, because identification is an essential partof referring.
The SNI action is used when a speaker has abelief involving some individual for whom he has a descrip-tion, but not a PF identifiable description, and intends thatthe hearer hold the same belief.SNI Act ion:  The speaker S performs action SNI withhearer H and term P.Precondi t ions:  S and H mutually believe that there ex-ists an individual R such that Denotation(P) = R.Effecti:  H knows that S intends that D be active.The primary effect of the SNI action is the same as theNSI action: it activates the term corresponding to the de-scription P. However, because the preconditions are dif-ferent, no intention to identify the description is communi-cated, ~md the ultimate effect of the action on the hearer'sbeliefs and intentions is therefore quite different.
This typeof action underlies the use of an attributive descriptionwhen no identification is intended.
This type of action hasbeen discussed in the literature (Donellan, 1966: Kripke,1977) with the situation of two people discovering Smith'sbadly mutilated body, and one saying "The man who mur-dered Smith is insane."
In this situation, the speaker isinforming the hearer of something about the referent of thedescription ~man who murdered Smith."
but does not knowwho this individual is, nor does he intend that the heareridentify him.
However, there are conditions on the mutualbelief of the speaker and hearer for the utterance to makesense.
The speaker mad hearer must mutually beiieve thatthe dead man is Smith, that he was in fact murdered, andthat it was a man who killed him.5.4 Nonshared Concept Activation withNo Identif ication Intention (NSNI).N$NI  Act ion:  The speaker S performs action NSNI withhearer H and term D.Precondit ions:  No mutual belief preconditions.202Effects: H knows that S intends that the term D be active.Unlike the SNI action, the NSNI action does not requirethat the speaker and hearer share any knowledge about thedenotation of the description prior to the utterance.
Thisaction is used by a speaker to introduce a new individual tothe discourse, without intending that the hearer associatethat individual with any that he already knows about.
Forexample, a speaker says, =I met an old friend from highschool yesterday."
The speaker does not assume that thehearer shares any knowledge of his old high school friends,nor does he intend the hearer to identify the person he istalking about.
The most important consideration for theplanner in this case is to include enough information in thedescription D to serve the speaker's purpose in the rest oftile discmtrse.NSNl actions are most frequently realized by referentialindefinite noun phrases (Fodor and Sag, 1982}.
Such a nounphrase is indefinite, but it is clear from the context thatthere is some particular individual that is denoted by thedescription.6 SummaryThis paper has examined a class of actions called conceptactivation actions, in which a speaker communicates the in-tent that the hearer ecognize a particular description.
Theperformance of one of these actions consists of uttering anoun phrase, either in isolation, or as part of a sentence.Therefore, the noun phrases resulting from the performanceof a concept activation action are, in some sense, referen-tial.
even though neither the speaker nor the hearer maykn,,w the noun phrase's denotation, either at the i'ime ofthe utterance or subsequently.While the four actions discussed in this paper accountfor a vor.v important class of noun phrzses, the class byn~, means exhausts all possibilities, and further rf'searchis needed to understand the pragmatic nnsi~lerations rel-want r,~ other noun phrases.
Some other noun-phrase x-amples of were discussed earlier, including quantiticationalnoun phrases and predicate nominals.
Generics, and bareplurals will require additional analysis.
There is also an ex-tremely =mportant class of concept activation actions thatha~ qol been discussed here, namely coreferrin9 actions,whi,'h ,'n~ail the activation of terms that.
have already beenirlt r,~du,'od to the discourse.This analysis of the actions underlying the productionof noun phrases is of particular importance to utteranceplanning.
Planning requires a characterization f actionsthat describes what their effects are, when they are appli-cable, and what strategies are available for their expansion.
"\['he four actions described in this paper fill an importantgap that has been left open in previous utterance-planningresearch.AcknowledgementsThis research was supported, in part, by the National Sci-ence Foundation under grant DCR-8407238 and was madepossible, in part, by a gift from the System DevelopmentFoundation to SRI International as part of a coordinatedresearch program with the Center for the Study of Lan-guage and Informatiou at Stanford University.
The authoris grateful to Barbara Grosz and Ray Perrault for commentson earlier drafts of this paper.ReferencesAppelt, D. E., Planning English Sentences, Cambridge Uni-versity Press.
Cambridge, UK (1985).Clark.
H. and C. Marshall, "Definite Reference and MutualKnowledge," in Joshi, Sag, and Webber (eds.}
Element.~of Discourse Understandin 9, Cambridge University Press,Cambridge, UK (1981) pp.
IO-63.Cohen, P. R., and C. R. Perrault, "Elements of a PlanBased Theory of Speech Acts," Cognitive Science 3 (1979)pp.
177-212.Cohen, P. R., "Referring ,an Requesting, ~ Proceedinqs of theTenth International Conference on Computational Linguis-tics (1984) pp.
307--221.Cohen, P. R. and II.
Levesque, "Speech Acts and the Recog-nition of Shared Plans," Proceedings of the Third BiennialConference, Canadian Society for Computational Studiesof Intelligence (1980).Cohen.
P.R., "Pragmatics.
Speaker-Reference, and theModality of C.rmmmnication," Computational Linguistics10 (198-1) pp.
97- 1.16.Donetlan.
K., "Reference and Definite Descriptions."
Philo-sophical Review, 75 (19G6) pp.
281-3f}.1.l:.dor, .l.
anti I.
Sag, ":Referential and O uantificatioual \[n-definites."
Linguistics and Philosophy 5 (1982) pp.
3.-3-1-398.Kripke, S., =Speaker Reference and Semantic Reference.
"in French, Uehling, and Wettstein tods.)
(',)~temporaryPerspectives in the Philosophy , f  Lan~j,age.
I.
'ni:'ersity ,~fMinnesota Press..Minneap~,lis.
MS. (1977} pp 6-27.Nadathur.
G. an,l A..l~shi.
"'Mutual 13,qi,,f~ in (',,nvema-rional Systems: Tlmir Rob- in Referring E::pre~i,m~."
Pra-ceedin,js ,ff the Eighth International .l,znt (',~n.&rcnce onArtificial \[ntelliyence.
{198,q1 pp.
603-605.Perrault, C.R., and P.R.
Cohen, "It's for Your Own Good:A Note on Inaccurate Reference."
in .lo~hi.
Sag.
and Web-ber (eds.)
Element.~ of Di.~rour.~e \['nderstar, din 9.
Cam-bridge University Press, Cambridge.
I.; K t 1981 !.Searle.
J.R., Speech Acts.
Cambridge l.'niversiLv Press.Cambridge, UK (1969).203
