THE USE OF SYNTACTIC CLUES IN DISCOURSE PROCESSINGNan Decker1834 Chase AvenueCincinnati, Ohio 45223, USAABSTRACTThe des i rab i l i ty  of  a syntact i c  pars ing  com-ponent in  natura l  language unders tand ing  sys temshas been the sub jec t  of  debate  fo r  the past  severa lyears .
Th is  paper  descr ibes  an approach  to  auto -mar ie  text  p rocess ing  which i s  ent i re ly  basedon syntact i c  form.
A program i s  descr ibed  whichprocesses  one genre  of d i scourse ,  that  of  news-paper  repor ts .
The program creates  summaries ofrepor ts  by re ly ing  on an expanded concept  of  textg round ing :  cer ta in  syntact i c  s t ruc tures  and tense /aspect  oa i rs  ind icate  the most impor tant  eventsin  a news s tory .
Suppor t ive ,  background mater ia li s  a l so  h igh ly  coded syntact i ca l ly .
Cer ta in  typesof  in fo rmat ion  are rout ine ly  expressed  wi thd i s t inc t  syntact i c  fo rms.
Where more than oneep isode  occurs  in a s ing le  repor t ,  a change ofep isode  w i l l  a l so  be marked syntact i ca l ly  in are l iab le  way.INTRODUCTIONThe ro le  that  syntact i c  s t ruc ture  shou ld  playin natura l  language process ing  has been a mat terof debate  in computat iona l  l ingu is t i cs .
Whilesome researchers  eschew syntact i c  p rocess ing  asg iv ing  a poor re turn  on the heavy investment  of  aparser  (Schank and R iesbeck ,  1981) ,  o thers  makesyntact i c  representat ions  the bas is  from whichfu r ther  work i s  done (Sager ,  1981; Hi rschman andSager, 1982).
Current syntax-based processorstend to work only within a narrow semantic domain,s ince  they rely heav i ly  on word co -occur rencepat terns  which hold on ly  w i th in  texts  from a par t?i cu la r  sublangua&e.
Knowledge-based processors ,on the o ther  hand,  can operate  on a less  res t r i c tedsemant ic  f ie ld ,  but  on ly  i f  su f f i c ient  knowledge inthe form of  sc r ip ts ,  f rames ,  and so fo r th ,  i s  bu i l tin to  the program.This paper describes a syntactic approach tonatural language processing which is not bound toa narrow semantic field, and which requires littleor no world knowledge.
This approach has beendemonstrated in a computer program called DUMP(~iscourse Understanding model \[rogram), whichrelies solely on syntactic structure to createsummaries of one particular genre of discourse--that of newspaper repor ts - -and  to l abe l  the kindsof information given in them (Decker, 1985).
Theprocess for creating these summaries differs sub-stantially from the word-llst and statisticalmethods used by other automatic abstractor programs(Borko and Beru ie r ,  1975).
The DUMP programthere fore  depends on a pred ic tab le  d i scoursegenre  or  s ty le ,  ra ther  than a pred ic tab le  sub lang-uage lex icon  or  body of wor ld knowledge.DUMP was deve loped from a corpus of over 5800words represent ing  twenty - three  news repor ts  fromthree  da i ly  newspapers :  the  New York T imes,  theBoston Globe,  and the Prov idence  Journa l /Even in~Bulletin.
With one exception, each s tory  appearedin the upper right-hand column of the front page.The stories in the corpus were chosen randomly andthe only criterion for rejection was too large apercentage of quoted material.
Only the first twohundred words or so of each story were included inthe corpus in order to allow a greater samplin~of reports.
The discourse principles at work arefairly represented in an excerpt o ~ this length.The input to the DUMP program consists of allst of hand-~6rsed sentences making up each story.Ideaily,.these parse trees should be the output ofa parsing program.
~n fact, about one-third ofthe sentences were passed through the RUS parser(Woods, 1973).
RUS experienced difficulty withsome of these sentences for a number of reasons:the parser was operating without a semantic compon-ent ,  and arcs from nodes were ordered with theexpectation of feedback from semantics; RUS lackedsome rules for structures which appear with regul-arlt 7 in the news; It attempted to give all theparses of a sentence, where DUMP only required one,and that not necessarily the correct or completeone (about which more later); and DUMP's rulescall for certain syntactic labels which are notordinarily assigned by parsing programs (negativeand adversative clauses, for example).
However,it should be stressed that none of these difficul-ties represents parsing problems of theoreticalimport.
All could he resolved by extensions toexisting components of the ATN and its dictionary.THE DISCOURSE STRUCTURE OF NEWS REPORTSThe syntactic rules used by DUMP work becauseof the predictable, almost formu\[aic discoursestructure of hard news reports~.
Two journalisticdevices above all else characterize hard news:the inverted pyramid, and the block paragraph(Green, 1979).
The inverted pyramid refers to theconvention of relating the most important facts of* Features ,  spor ts  repor ts ,  and so fo r th  have the i rown discourse structure.315a news s tory  in  the  f i r s t  paragraph ,  fo l lowed byless important information g iven  in descend ingorder (or, it may be argued, random order) of im-portance.
Thus, the news differs markedly fromcanonical story form in which material is given inchronological order.
The block paragraph, thesecond device, is one which stands independent ofparagraphs adjacent to it.
This unit contains noLogica l  connect ives  (however,  in add i t ion ,  ~ore -over)  which l ink  i t  to p reced ing  or fo l low ingparagraphs .
The avo idance  of such connect ivesa l lows the newspaper ed i to r  to qu ick ly  de le teparagraphs  from a s to ry  in  the  morning ed i t ionto f i t  in to  the  even ing  ed i t ion  w i thout  rewr i t ing .The b lock paragraph  i s  shor t :  over  s ix ty  percentof the paragraphs in the corpus are only one sent-ence long; about one-half have two sentences, andless than one percent have three sentences.
Theeffect is that most sentences of the  report arepresented at the same level of importance: thereis no orthographic unit larger than the sentencewhich reliably indicates that a group of sentencesis related topically or episodically.
In place ofthe normal paragraph, we shall see, is a highlyreliable level of syntactic coding which linkssentences  in to  episodes.At a lower level of organization than the in-verted pyramid and block paragraph are the twodiscourse units which DUMP relies on: the episode,and within the episode, the information field asfound in the detached clause.News repor ts  may conta in  more than one ep isode .A new ep isode  beg ins  when the set  of charactersand/or  se t t ing  ( tempora l  or geograph ica l )  changes .The detached clause is def ined  Intonatlonally:it is bounded by pauses, has falling intonationat the end, or is preceded by a clause with fall-ing intonation (Thompson, 1983).
This clause isalmost always set off in text with commas.
So,for example, the following sentence from theninth story in the corpus ("Ararat Forces LoseKey Position," Boston Globe, November 7, 1983)consists of four detached clauses, or informationfields:(9:3)~ Arafat's soldiers, who resisted theassault, fell back sir miles to Beddawi,the remaining PiO stronghold in the area,and Nahr el Bared is now surrounded by Syriansoldiers ....The information fields here are: a nonrestric-tive relative clause ("who resisted the assault"),an appositive ("the remaining PLO stronghold inthe area"), and two main clauses ("Arafat'ssoldiers fell back..." and "Nahr el Bared is nowsurrounded...").There are a small number of syntactic formswhich reliably indicate the beginning of newepisodes.
Likewise, there is a strong correlation* The first number indicates the story in thecorpus, the second the number of the sentencewithin that story.between the category of information the Journalistconveys in each detached clause and the syntacticstructures used for its expression.
For example,the nonrestrictive relative clause in 9:3 expressesbackground events, the appositive expresses  anidentif ication of place, and the two main clausesexpress a main event and a current state, respect-ively.
The next two sections will Look at thesyntactic correlates of the information field andthe  ep isode  boundary in  detail.Syntactic Correlates of the Information FieldThe syntact i c  ru les  used by DUMP re f lec tg round ing  pr inc ip les  found un iversa l ly  in  d i s -course  (Gr imes,  1975).
Cer ta in  asser t iona l  s t ruc -tu res  in  text deliver foreground information, whichtells the events of the narrative and moves thestory forward.
These events comprise a summary ofthe story.
Less assertional structures are used toexpress background, supportive information whichfleshes out the skeleton provided in the foregroundbut does not move the action forward.
There is astrong correlation between the syntactic form andinformation type of this supportive material whichallows DUMP to subcategorize it into the followingclasses: past  events and processes Leading up tothe most recent development in the story; plans forthe future; current state of the world; informa-tion of secondary impor tance ;  identifications;import of the story; effects of actions; commentsmade by participants in the story; and collateral(things which did not happen).This division of material into foreground vs.background gives text its texture.
A narrativein which everything is presented at the same levelof prominence tends to be monotonous.
One of thechief means of distinguishing foreground frombackground is tense and aspect, which has beencalled a sort of flow-of-control mechanism, allow-in K the reader to pick out the most important partsof a discourse (Hopper, 1979).
Sentences withsimple past verbs in the active voice are thechief conveyors of foreground material in news.This fact recalls the broader concept of transi-tivit 7 put forth by Hopper and Thompson (1980),whereby certain properties of the verb and itsarguments transfer the action from agent to patientmore effectively than others.
Foregrounded clauseshave high transitivity, backgrounded clauses lowtransitivity.High transitivity verbs are kinetic, relic,punctual, volitional, affirmative, and realis.Kinetic verbs allow easy transfer of action fromsubject to object.
Throw is therefore kinetic,while the copular to be is not.
Telic verbs arethose which express an action with a natural end-poin=.
The verb make ia "John is making a chair"is relic, while the verb sin 5 in "John is singing"is not .
Telic and atelic verbs can be ~istin-guisned by their entailments: if John is interrup-ted while making a chair, it is not true thac hehas made a chair, but if he is interrupted whilesinging, it is still true that he has sung (Comrie,1976).
Punctual verbs (sneeze, kick) refer toactions with no obvious internal structure.Study and carr~ are examples of non-punctual verbs.316Vo l i t iona l  verbs  ("T wrote  h i s  name") have greatert rans i t i v i ty  than  non-vo l i t iona l  verbs  ("~ fo rgoth i s  name") (Hopper  and Thompson, 1980, p. 252).Affirmation distinguishes collateral informationfrom all other types.
And finally, the realismode d is t ingu ishes  events  which have ex is ted  fromthose  which on ly  might  have or  would have .
Mainevent  c lauses  there fore  never  conta in  moda ls .
Thed i f fe rent ia l  behav ior  o f  verbs  from these  semant icc lasses  has been descr ibed  by a number of  taxon-omers (Comrie,  1976; Moure la tos ,  1981; Ota,  1963;Vend ler ,  1967).Arguments high in transitivity are those whichare  strong agents ,  totally affected and h igh lyind iv iduated .
S t rong  agents  a re  human ra ther  thannon-human: "George startled me" has more transi-tivit 7 than "The picture startled me" (Hopper andThompson, 1980, p.252).
Objects which are whollyaf fec ted  lend greater  t rans i t i v i ty  than those  whichare  on ly  par t ia l l y  a f fec ted  ( " I  drank the mi lk"vs .  "
I  drank some mi lk" ) .
L ikewise ,  more h igh lyind iv iduated  o - -~e~def ined  as proper ,  human oran imate ,  concrete ,  s ingu lar ,  count  and def in i te ,add more t rans i t iv i ty  than less  ind iv iduated  ones .These t rans i t iv i ty  parameters  assume a gooddea l  of semant ic  knowledge about  verbs  and the i ra rguments .
In  fac t ,  the a f f i rmat ive  and rea l i sfeatures  are  the on ly  ones re f lec ted  Ln DUMP'sru les .
But in another  respect ,  Hopper and Thomp-son 's  not ion  of t rans i t i v i ty  must be extended.
Anexaminat ion  of  tense  and aspect  a lone  i s  notsu f f i c ient  to d i s t ingu ish  fo reground from back-ground in the DUMP corpus .
The type of  c lause  Inwhich the verb  appears  i s  a l so  c ruc ia l .
So, fo rexample,  the s imple  past  may be used to convey bothfo reground and background mater ia l ,  depend ing onthe type of c lause  in which i t  occurs :  in mainc lauses ,  i t  w i l l  a lways convey the most recentevents  in a s to ry ,  wh i le  in re la t ive  c lauses ,  i tw i l l  a lways convey past  events .
The f i r s t  twosentences  of s to ry  6 ( "S tone  Meets w i th  Sa lvadorRebel  Of f i c ia l , "  Boston GLobe, August 1, 1983)i l l us t ra te  the d i s t inc t  uses  of  the two c lausetypes .
(6:i) After weeks of maneuvering and frus-tration, presidential envoy Richard B. Stonemet face-to-face yesterday for the first timewith a key Leader of the  Salvadoran guerril lamovement.Here, the simple past is used in a main clause toforeground information.
(6:Z) "The ice has been broken," proclaimedPresident BeLisario Betancur of  Co lombia,who eng ineered  the meeting.The simple past engineered in a relative clauseindicates background material.The information-bearing capacities of thesetwo clause types, when they occur with the simple,active past, are in complementary distribution innewswriting.
The main clause is more assertionaLthan the relative clause; it is used to giveinformation which the writer assumes the reader isseeing for the  first time.
The relative clause,on the other hand, is more presuppositionaL.
Thewriter uses it to  convey o ld  information which isof Lesser importance or which the reader mayalready have knowledge of.Sentences 6:i and 6:Z il lustrate the way inwhich syntactic forms provide information whichmight otherwise need to be culled from world know-Ledge.
We know that the planning of a meeting pre-cedes its occur rence ,  but  no such knowledge isnecessary  here ,  s ince  the  past  verb  form in a re l -a t ive  c lause  s igna ls  an event  which occur red  be forethe  main event .The so-called "hot news" present perfect i- amain clause ("The president has resigned") signalsa main event if it occurs in the first sentence ofa story.
Its appearance further down or in a nou-main clause signals information about past eventsor states.
Two sentences from story 16 ("Peron-ists Suffer Stunning Defeat in Argentine Vote,"New York Times, November I, 1983) illustrate this.
(16 :1)  The Leader o f  a midd le -c lass  par tyhas swept to victory in  Argentina's presi-dential elections ....(16:4) The e~?~on,  called by the rulingmilitary, was a stunning defeat for thePerou is ts ,  who have dominated Argent ina 'spolitical Life since their party was foundedin 1945 by Juan Domin~o Peron.I n  16:1,  the present  per fec t  has swept i s  usedin  the hot  news sense.
In  16:4 ,  the present  per -fec t  have dominated Ls used in a re la t ive  c lausew i th  an adverb ia l  phrase  ( "s ince  the i r  par ty  wasfounded in 1945. .
. "
)  to descr ibe  a s ta te  that  hasex is ted  fo r  decades .
Note a l so  that  the verbdominate  i s  a te l i c  and non-punctua l ,  and there foreLow in transitivity.
However, knowledge of theverb's semantic class is not necessary to identifythe relative clause as supportive.
The mere factthat the verb is in a relative clause or the factthat  the present  per fec t  appears af ter  the f i r s tsentence  suffices.Syntactic clues may be used to avoid the needfor time programs which determine the relativetiming of events by interpreting adverbials.
Thefollowing main clauses use the present perfect, butsince they are non-initial, the states and eventsreferred to in them must have occurred before themain event in the story ("O'Neill Now Calls Gren-ada Invasion 'Justified' Action," New York Times,November 9, 1983).
(19 :5)  Pressures  to pass a s t r i c t  60-dayLegal  l im i t  \ [ to  the s tay  o f  U.S. t roops  inGrenada\]  have eased in  the past  week.
(19 :6)  Both houses have passed such measures,but  the Senate vers ion  has been bot t led  upbecause i t  was a t tached to a debt -ce i l ing  b i l l .
(i~:7) Other versions of the 60-day War PowersResolution have been introduced but not actedupon.The appearance  of  the present  per fec t  th i s  fa r317i n to  the s tory  means that  the t ime phrase  in  thepast  week does not  have to be in terpreted  by a t imeprogram.L ikewise ,  the use of  the  pass ive  s imple  past  ina main c lause  ind icates  that  the  event  i s  suppor t ivematerial: main events, it turns out, are neverexpressed with passive voice in the corpus.
Instory 14 ("U.S. Says Moscow Threatens to QuitTalks on Missiles," New York Times, October 12,1983) ,  there  i s  no need to in terpret  the adver -b ia l  in  1980 and in 1979 w i th  a t ime program,un less  re la t ive  order ing  of  background events  isdes i red .
The mere presence  of  the pass ive  marksthese  events  as occur r ing  be fore  the  t ime ofthe main events in the story.
(14 :8)  Ta lks  on a comprehens ive  tes t  ban ofnuc lear  dev ices  were suspended in Genevain  1980, and the Geneva negot ia t ions  weresuspended in  1979.Main events  then are  expressed  in  main c lausesw i th  s imple  past  verbs .
Events  and s ta tes  whichex is ted  be fore  these  main events  are  expressedw i th  a greater  var ie ty  of  syntact i c  fo rms,  frommain c lauses ,  to re la t ive  and subord inate  c lauses ,down to noun phrases (which are not analyzed byDUMP).
Nominalizations are perhaps the most fre-quent conveyors of background information In thenews.
The nominalization rule transforms a sent-ence into a noun phrase which can then be insertedinto another sentence.
St is a highly presupposi-t iona i  s t ruc ture ,  s ince  the sub jec t  and ob jec tof  the or ig ina l  verb  are  o f ten  de le ted  dur ing  thet rans format ion  and the  reader  must then supp lythese  arguments  from wor ld knowledge.
An ~xampiefrom the second s tory  in the corpus  ( "LebanonNeeds Israeli Troops ,  Shu l tz  To ld , "  Boston Globe,March 14, 1983) shows the heavy use of nominaii-zations to create a very long prepositions\[ phrasewhich contains not a single verb:(Z:2)  In the f i r s t  h igh -Leve l  contactsbetween the two governments  ince  the s tar tear ly  this year  of OS- Is rae i i - Lebanesene~ot ia t ions  on the  w i thdrawa l  of I s rae l ' sforces from Lebanon, ....We wi l l  see o ther  uses  of nomina l i za t lon  to expresso ther  in fo rmat ion  categor ies  and to re fer  toepisodes with a single word.The following incomplete llst gives a cursorylook at the strong correlation between the remain-ing information categories in news reports and thesyntactic forms used to express them.
Most of theexamples are from story 6, about envoy Stone'smeeting with a Salvadoran guerril la Leader, andstory 16, about the defeat of the Peronists inArgentina's elections.
The next two categories,Current States and Plans, also locate events orstates in time, and therefore must occur in finiteclauses.
-Current States: This category describes thescale of the world at the time the report iswritten.
Current states are expressed with simplepresent  or p resent  progress ive  verbs  used in mainc lauses  and in  subord inate  and re la t ive  c lauses .
(6:10)  Stone has repeated ly  sought  to meetw i th  po l i t i ca l  Leaders  of  the  Sa lvadoranle f t ,  a l l  of  whom l ive  in ex i le ,  .
.
.
.
(16=11) The country Mr. Alfonsin is dueto govern is racked by a deep economic crisis.Plans: These may be expressed with appropr ia temodals (will, ~ ,  would) in the same struc-tures used fo r  Current States.
(6 :10)  His miss ion  i s  to encourage  par t i c ipa -t ion  by the  left in  Sa lvadoran  e lec t ions ,which w i l l  p robab ly  be he ld  in  March 198~.
(16:10)  M i l i ta ry  o f f i c ia l s  sa id  the ru l ingjunta  would cons ider  i t  in a meet ing  Tuesday.Cer ta in  verbs  which express  present  planning(come , go , leave ,  s ta r t )  can be used to ind icatefuture time with the present  tense: "Fiscal year1983, which begins Oct. 1 .... ".It seems to be a discourse principle of Jour-nalese that while non-main events may be "promo-ted" to expression by the most assertive clausetype, they may also be expressed with less asser-tional forms: subordinate and relative clauses,nominailzations, etc.
The converm, however, isnot true.
Main events may never by "demoted" toexpression by any other than the most assertiveform.The remaining information types do not Locateactions in time, and therefore are free to appearin constructions without finite verbs.Import: This category is occasionallyexpressed with equative sentences of the form:NP V-be NP.
The subject and predicate NPs tendto be nominaLizations, with the former referringto the main episode.
(16:4) The election...was a stunning defeatfor the Peronists ....E lect ion  re fers  to the main event  in t roduced in16 : i .
16:4 te l l s  why that  event  i s  newswor thy .Nonrest r i c t ive  PPs w i th  nomina l i za t ions  asheads  may a l so  express  Impor t :(4 :1)  The.
.
.Budget  Committee, in  a majorblow to Pres ident  Ronald Reagan, votedyesterday to hold the real growth in defensespending to 5 percent next year .... ("SenatePanel Trims Reagan Arms Budget," Boston GLobe,April 8, 1983)Identifications: With only one exception, allidentifications in the corpus are made with pre-nominal modifiers ("Prime Minister Smith") orwith appositives, which may be embedded recur-s iveLy :(6 :3)  .
.
.S tone .
.
.
ta lked  w i th  Ruben Zamora,the No.
2 Leader of the Revo lu t ionary  Demo-318crat i c  F ront ,  the :po l i t i caL  arm of the f i veMarx is t - led  guer r i l l a  bands f ight ing  gov-ernment fo rces  here .E f fec ts :  Detached par t i c ip ia l  phrases  are usedto tell the effects of the actions described inmain c lauses .
(16:1) The leader of a middle-class partyhas swept to victory in Argentina's presi-dential elections, handin~ the union-basedPeronists their first election defeat ~nnear ly  four  decades .Comments: Comments are s imply  quotat ions  frompeople invo lved in an event .
While in o ther  nar ra -t i ves ,  d ia logue  i s  o f ten  the ch ie f  means of te l l -ing a s to ry  and moving the ac t ion  forward,  th i s  i snot  the  case  in  newswr i t ing .
Mere, quotes  frompar t i c ipants  add f lavor  and g ive  supp lementaryinformation, but they are never the so le  veh ic lefor informing readers of an event.
This is alucky fact, sSnce the syntactic forms used inquoted speech are usually much less constrainedthan those in non-quoted portions.
(16:5) "We are entering a new stage," the56-year old Mr. Alfonsin, whose politicsare Left  of center, said in a televisioni n te rv iew ear ly  today.Collateral: News reports tell what did nothappen in a story, what events and processesnever were, with surprising frequency.
Thisinformation category is expressed by negations ofc lauses ,  including negat ive  ex is tent ia l s ,  neg-ative subord inate  c lauses ,  and var ious  negat iveprefixes and prenominal modifiers.
(6:7) Salvadoran officials had no immediatecomment on what they heard from Stone ....(6 :9)  Stone had been unable  to a r range  ameet ing with the Sa lvadoran  rebe l  leaders .
.
.earlier this month.If it were the case that the correspondencebetween a syntactic form and the information typesit expresses was one-to-many, this relation wouldnot be of much help in automatic processing.
Infact, the correspondence is closer to one-to-one,so that, for example, equatives only express im-port and not identifications, as would be naturalin conversational English ("Smith is mayor of thecity").DUMP was success fu l  in creating good summariesand labeling the information types for all but twoof the twenty-three stories in the corpus.
Thesetwo exceptions were highly eventful, chronologicalaccounts and DUMP had difficulty distinguishingminor events from major ones.
in addition, afterthe completion of the program, it performed wellwith a final story not from the corpus.Syntact i c  Cor re la tes  of Episode Boundar iesAbout one-thlrd of the stories in the DUMPcorpus consist of more than one episode.
Story 17,given here with its DUMP-derived analysis of infor-mation, contains three minor episodes in additionto the major one introduced in the first sentenceof the report.
The discussion below of syntacticforms used to indicate episode boundar ies  willcall upon this story for examples.Story 17The New York Times, November 4, 1983"Senate Approves Secret U.S. ActionAgainst Managua"By Martin TolchinSpecial to  the New York TimesWashington, Nov. 3 - i.
The Senate todayapproved by voice vote continued aid for covertoperations In Nicaragua.
Z.
The approval wasmade contingent upon notif ication to the intelli-gence committee of the goals and risks of specificcover t  p ro jec ts .3.
The act ion  would prov ide  on ly  $19 mi l l i onof the $50 mill ion that the Administration soughtfor covert operations in Central America, mostlyin Nicaragua.
4.
Those funds are expected to runout in less than six months, when the CentralIntelligence Agency would have to give an accountof its activities as it sought the rest of thefunds.5.
The vote followed an hourLong debate thatfocused on covert United States activity in Nicar-agua, which was banned in a Mouse-passed bill.6.
The Mouse bill would provide $50 mill ion in openassistance to any friendly Central American govern-ment.
7.
Mouse and Senate conferees will now seekto resolve differences in the two measures, andthe Nicaraguan dispute is expected to be a stumb-ling block in the negotiations.Judge Orders Investigation8.
In San Francisco, a Federal district judgeordered Attorney General Will iam French Smith toconduct a preliminary investigation of charges thatPresident Reagan and other Government officialsv io la ted  the Neutrality Act by supporting theactivities of paramilitary groups seeking to over-throw the Nicaraguan government.
9.
The rulingcame in a lawsuit filed by Representative RonaidV.
DeLLums, Democrat of California \[Page A9\].I0.
Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan, the NewYork Democrat who is vice chairman of the Intell-igence Committee, told the Senate that the Admin-istration had modified its covert policy Lastsummer, and was not supporting the insurgentsseeking to overthrow the Sandinista government .Summary of Main Events: The Senate today approvedby voice vote continued aid for covert operationsin Nicaragua.
Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihantold the Senate that the Administration had?
Dump does not analyze either subtitles, which n~tall newspapers use, or titles.319modi f ied  i t s  cover t  po l i cy  las t  summer and wasnot  suppor t ing  the  bnsurgents  seek ing  to over throwthe Sandinlsta government.Past  Events :  .
.
.wh ich  \ [cover t  US ac t iv i ty  inN icaragua\ ]  was banned in  a House-passed  b i l l .Cur rent  S ta te :  Those  funds  are  expected  to run  outin  less  than  s ix  months .. .
.
the  Nicaragua d ispute  is expected  to bea stumbling block in the negotiations.P lans :  Sentence  3.. .
.when \ [ in  Less  than  s ix  months \ ]  the  Cent ra lIn te lL igence  Agency would have  to g ive  an account -ing  o f  i t s  ac t iv i t ies  as I t  sought  the  res t  o fthe  funds .Sentence  6.House and Senate  conferees  w i l l  now seek  toreso lve  d i f fe rences  in  the  two measures .Secondar ) , : *  The approva l  was made cont ingent  uponnot i f i ca t ion  to  the  in te l l igence  commit tee  o f  thegoa ls  and r i sks  o f  spec i f i c  cover t  p ro jec ts .Ident i f i ca t ions :  .
.
.Moyn ihan ,  the  New York Democratwho i s  v i ce  cha i rman o f  the  In te l l igence  Commit tee .The remain ing  uncategor i zed  sentences  a reep isode  markers  and w i l l  be d i scussed  be low.
* * * * *As noted  ear l ie r ,  o r thograph ic  paragraphs  arenot  used  in  newswr i t tng  to ind icate  ep isodeboundar ies .
In  the i r  p lace  are  a smal l  number  o fconst ruc t ions  wh ich  regu lar ly  in t roduce  newep isodes ,  re la t ing  them tempora l ly  to  p rev iousep isodes .
These  s t ruc tures  inc lude  the  doub leconta iner  sentence ,  the  sentence  in t roduced  w i tha won- res t r i c t ive  locat ion  PP, the  L inkS ,  and thedetached  t ime adverb ia l  w i th  a nominaL iza t iou  ini t .The f i r s t  four  sentences  o f  s~ovy 17 concernthe  m=%n ep isode .
A new, minor  ep isode  i s  in t ro -duced by the  doub le  conta iner  in  sentence  5.
Th isk ind  o f  s t ruc ture  has  a verb  f rom the  smal l  c lass(e .g .
p recede ,  fo l low,  resu l t  in )  wh ich  may takea nomina l i za t ion  in  both  sub jec t  and ob jec t  pos i -t i on .
The sub jec t  re fe rs  to  an o ld  ep isode  and theob jec t  to  a new one .
(17 :5 )  The vote  fo l lowed an hour long  debatethat  focused  on cover t  Un i ted  S ta tesac t iv i ty  in  N icaragua  .
.
.
.The sub jec t  vote  re fe rs  back to  the  s to ry ' smain  event ,  the  Senate  vote  in  the  f i r s t  sentence .The ob jec t ,  or  new ep isode ,  i s  the  nomina l i za t tondebate .
The ob jec t  a l so  te l l s  o f  another  ep isodeconcern ing  passage  of  a House b i l l .
Th i s  b i l lep i sode  i s  deve loped  in  17:6  and 17 :7 .The second minor  ep isode  i s  in t roduced  w i th  a* Th is  ca tegory  i s  not  a very  re l iab le  one .
I tinc ludes  c lauses  w i th  pass ives  and copu las .s imp le  detached  PP o f  locat ion  in  17 :8 .
Th iss t ruc ture  i s  used  to sh i f t  the  set t ing  f rom thedate l ine  locat ion  to  a new p lace .
In  th i s  case ,the  ac t ion  moves f rom Wash ington  to  San F ranc isco :(17 :8 )  In  San F ranc isco ,  a Federa l  d i s t r i c tJudge  ordered  At to rney  Genera l  Wi l l i am FrenchSmi th  to  conduct  a p re l im inary  invest igat iono f  charges  that  P res ident  Reagan and o therGovernment  o f f i c ia l s  v io la ted  the  Neut ra l i tyAct  .
.
.
.Th i s  ep isode  i s  not  deve loped  any fu r ther  inth i s  repor t ,  but  i s  in te r rupted  in  the  next  sent -euce ,  a L inkS ,  by the  th i rd  minor  ep isode .
TheLinks Is of the form:The nomina l i zed  sub jec t  re fe rs  back  to  a p rev iousep isode  and the  ob jec t  o f  came re fers  to a newep isode .
The con junct  o r  ~r - -~os i t ion  shows the  newep isode 's  tempora l  re la t ion  to  the  o ld .
(17 :9 )  The ru l ing  came in  a lawsu i t  f i l edby Representat ive  Rona ld  V. De i lums,  Democrato f  Ca l i fo rn ia .
\ [Page AP.
IThe lawsu i t  ep isode  i s  deve loped  e l sewhere  inthe  paper .
The page re ference  c loses  th i sep isode ,  and there fore ,  s ince  17:10 conta ins  nore fe rence  to a new p lace  or  t ime,  and has  a s imp lepast  main  verb  (~oLd) ,  i t  must  by de fau l t  be par to f  the  o r ig ina l ,  ma in  ep isode .
Th is  dec is ion  i ssuppor ted  by the  e leventh  sentence  in  the  s to ry(not included in the corpus):Af ter  th i s  po l i cy  change ,  Mr. Moyn ihan sa id ,the  commit tee  approved  add i t iona l  funds .There  i s  no example  o f  the  f ina l  ep isodemarker  in  s to ry  17- - the  sentence  in t roduced  by adetached  t ime adverb ia l  w i th  a nomina l i za t ion  in  atime phrase ("Two hours before the vote"; "Duringthe Pope's visit")?
The nomlnalization refers toa previous episode and the main sentence to whichthe  whole  adverb ia l  phrase  i s  a t tached  in t roducesthe  new ep isode .
S tory  10 ( "F rench  Je ts  KetaL ia te ,H i t  Sh i i te  Pos i t ions , "  Boston  GLobe, November 18,L983) begins vith French planes bombing Iranian-backed militia in Lebanon.
A related episodestarts in sentence 5:(10:5) Six hours after the French air attacks,gunmen f i red  rocket -propeL led  grenades  andautomat ic  weapons a t  a F rench  peacekeep in~ postin  the  Sh i i te  Moslem ne ighborhood  o f  Khand ikGhamik in West Beirut.Each ep isode  in  a repor t  has  the  potent ia l  toconta in  i t s  own main  events ,  background events ,p lans ,  cur rent  s ta tes ,  ident i f i ca t ions ,  and soforth.
An extension of DUMP's labeling abilitywould be the creation of a discourse tree for eachnews report, with a root node dominating episodenodes, which in turn dominate relevant informationcategor ies .320THE DUMP PROGRAMDUMP works very  s imply .
I t  takes  as inputparsed  sentences  of  a s to ry  and searches  throughthem for  the k inds  of  syntact i c  labe ls  descr ibedabove (dec la ra t ive  sentence ,  detached PP, e tc . )
.These labe ls  in t roduce  in fo rmat ion  f ie lds ,  each ofwhich is stored on a stack.
A set of rules isthen  app l ied  to  each ent ry  on the  s tack ,  andass ignment  of  each ent ry  made Co one of  theinformation categories on the basis of the struc-tural label and optional tense/aspect marker.DUMP does not  need a fu l l  parse  of  a sentenceto assign syntactic structures to a partlcularinformation category.
For example, it does notneed to know anything about the attachment ofclause-lnternal PPs, a difficult problem forparsing programs.
Furthermore, newswriting (withthe  except ion  of quoted  por t ions ,  which DUMP doesnot  need parsed)  does not  re f lec t  the use  of  afu l l  grammar of  Eng l i sh .
The corpus  conta ins  noquest ion  forms and a number of  the "s ty l i s t i c "transformations (pseudo-cleft, coplcaLizatlonare examples) do not appear.
The question ofwhether some kind of "fuzzy" parser with a limitednumber of  ru les  could  prov ide  adequate  output  fo rDUMP is  one ~or fu r ther  research .On the o ther  hand,  whatever  parser  i s  used toprepare  input  fo r  DUMP wi l l  need cer ta in  labe lsnot  o rd inar i~y  found in  parse  t rees :  sentences  arenot  usually d is t ingu ished  as equat ive  or  doub leconta iner  in type .
Fur thermore ,  DUMP requ i ressome non-s tandard  features  on words .
For example,we have seen in  a number of  ins tances  how cruc ia li t  i s  to mark nouns as nomina l i za t ions .RELATION TO OTHER WORKThe DUMP program embodies pr inc ip les  use fu lboth  to the process ing  of  sub languages  and to AIresearch.
In the former case, these principlesallow preliminary automatic processing of textswithin the same genre, regardless of the breadthof the semantic field.
As noted earlier, currentwork with subLanguages relies on word co-occur-rence c lasses  which resu l t  from the i r  veryconst ra ined  sub jec t  mat ter .
Newswr i t ing  covers  awide range of  top ics  and there fore  word co -occur -rence  classes are not an efficient method ofautomat ic  p rocess ing .
However, these  repor ts  doshow pred ic tab le  const ra in ts  in  the use of  syn-tac t i c  constructions to express particular kindsof information and it is this regularity that DUMPdepends upon.In  the case  of AI research ,  DUMP can serve  asa suppor t  program to knowledge-based  processors .The FRUMP program (DeJong,  L979), fo r  example,creates summaries from sketchy scripts by lookingfo r  key requests ,  or  main events ,  in the text .So, the sc r ip t  fo r  an ear thquake  s tory  mightconta in  key requests  fo r  in fo rmat ion  about  thequake 's  rating on the R ichter  Sca le ,  the  amountof  p roper ty  damage I t  d id ,  where the ep icenterwas located ,  and how far  shock waves were fe l t .FRUMP would then  look to  the  newspaper  text  fo rev idence  of  each of  the  key requests  in  the sc r ip t .The scripts are written by the programmer, basedon his or her assumption of the most importantinformation likely to be found in  all storiesabout a particular topic.
DUMP is feted fromreliance on such scripts because of the fact thatthe news reporter, however unconsciously, encodeskey requests syntactically.
DUMP can locate thesekey requests easily and also signal the beginningof new elpsodes, thus facilitating one of the taskswhich FRUMP finds most difflcu~t--thafi of scriptselection.
(Imaglne the confusion that couldresult in scot 7 17 when the Congressional scriptis interrupted in the eighth sentence by anepisode requiring a judicial script.)
Once allof the detached clauses and episodes in a reporthave been correctly ~abeLled by DUMP, a knowledge-based processor could then go about buildingconceptua l  representat ions  fo r  each un i t .I t  i s  expected  that  DUMP's approach  cou ld  beextended to o ther  genres  of  wr i t ing ,  s ince  mosttexts  ach ieve  texture  by d i s t ingu ish ing  fo regroundfrom background.
However, texts  vary  in the pro -por t ion  of  fo regrounded to backgrounded mater ia land in their pref~ence for certain forms to conveygrounding.
The literary style of a discourse willtherefore influence the design of automatic textprocessing programs.
The style of news reports isre la t ive ly  subord inated ,  non- redundant ,  and pred i -catlonaiiy dense.
The sentences in the DUMP corpusaverage 2.88 predications per sentence, as comparedto a high of 2.78 in the informative sections ofthe Brown corpus and 2.6A across all genres(Francis and Kucera, 1982).
The term predicationrefers co both the flniCe and non-flnlCe types, andtherefore the 2.88 figure indicates that the newscorpus is characterized by a great deal of embedd-ing of both types: finite clauses (relative clause~adverbial clauses), and well as non-finites (infin-itive complements, reduced relatives, participials).I t  can be hypothes ized  that  a h igh ly  pred icatedwr i t ing  s ty le  such as Journa lese  w i l l  show greatervar ie ty  in  i t s  syntact i c  s t ruc tures  than  a s ty lew i th  few pred icat ions  per  sentence .
Th is  syntact i cdiversity will reflect a text with less fore-grounded mater ia l - - in  shor t ,  a text  w i th  greatertexture .
A fu r ther  hypothes is  i s  that  in a pred i -ra t iona l ly  dense s ty le  there  w i l l  be a s t rongercor re la t ion  between syntact i c  forms and the par -t i tu la r  In fo rmat ion  types  expressed  by these  fo rms.I t  seems l i ke ly  that  a genre  which uses  few pred-i ca t ions  per  sentence  would cons is t  ch ie f l  7 of mainc lauses  used as the workhorse  to express  a l l  k indsof  in fo rmat ion :  background,  main events ,  p lans ,impor t ,  and so fo r th .
Some of  these  in fo rmat ioncategor ies  w i l l  be d i s t ingu ishab le  by verb  tense ,aspect ,  mood and vo ice ,  as in  the news.
But o thersw i l l  have to re ly  on wor ld  knowledge fo r  categor i -za t ion .
As an example,  cons ider  a rev ised  vers ionof  the  open ing  of  s to ry  6, rewr i t ten  so that  em-bedded c lauses  in the or ig ina l  a re  expressed  asmain c~auses:Richard  B.
Stone met face -co - face  today w i tha key leader  of  the Sa lvadoran  guer r i l l amovement.
He spent  severa l  f rus t ra t ing  weeks321maneuvering the meet ing.
"The Ice has been broken,"  proc la imedPres ident  Be l i sar io  BeCancur of Colombia.He engineered the meet ing.Knowledge about the way p lans are made would beneeded to d i s t ingu ish  foreground from background inthese  sentences .One fu r ther  metr i c  can be hypothes ized  fordetermin ing  d i scourse  genres  su i tab le  for syntact i cana lys i s .
In syntact i c  theory  there  is  a we l l -known cor re la t ion  between the f lex ib i l i ty  of wordorder  in a language and i t s  use of morphosyu-tactic Inflections.
Languages llke English whichhave Lost most of their inflectional markers relyon rigid word order to establish syntacticrelations.
On the other hand, highly inflected~anguages llke Latin can afford greater flexibilityin  word order  s ince  in f lec t ions  on the ends ofwords ind icate  the i r  funct ion  in the sentence .An analogy might be drawn in which syntacticstructures correspond to morphosyntactic \[nflec-Lions and in fo rmat ion  order  in d i scourse  cor res -ponds to word order .
The d i scourse  s t ruc ture  ofnews repor ts  v io la tes  canon ica l  s to ry  form.
Thewr i te r  does not s ta r t  at the beg inn ing  and re la teevents  through to the end.
The potent ia l  confus ionin t roduced by th i s  unpred ic tab i l i ty  i s  compoundedby the dens i ty  of new in fo rmat ion  in news repor ts .Perhaps the great  regu lar i ty  in the use of d i s t inc tsyntact i c  forms to express  the types of in fo rmat ionconveyed in the news serves to compensate for theflexibility ~n discourse structure.
It is asthough the s t rong  cor re la t ion  between syntact i cform and tnforma~ion type f rees  the reader  toprocess  the large amount of new in fo rmat ion  beingde l ivered .
Jus t  as in f lec t iona l  endings al low theL i s tener  to ass ign  words to the i r  funct iona l  s lo tsregard less  of the order  in which they appear ,  sothe syntact i c  cor re la tes  to in fo rmat ion  types al lowthe news reader  to qu ick ly  ass ign  phrases  the i rfunct ion  in the d i scourse .
S tor ies  which adhereto a s tandard  s tory  grammar do not need suchsyncactlc regularity, since the position of thematerial in the text indicates its function.The extens ion  of a program Like DUMP to o therd i scourse  genres would requ i re ,  f i r s t ,  theident i f i ca t ion  of the in fo rmat ion  categor iesexpressed  by the kind of text .
Cookbooks, fo rexample, convey ins t ruc t ions  and descr ip t ions ,  notmain events ,  e f fec ts  and ident i f i ca t ions .Secondly ,  cor re la t ions  between syntact i c  form andin fo rmat ion  type and the syntact i c  means for~nd icat ing  ep isode boundar ies  must be determined.The degree of cor re la t ion  between syntact i c  formand ?nformation type in non-news genres  is  amat ter  for  fu r ther  invest igat ion .ACKNONLEDGMENTSThis research  was car r ied  ouC under grantG008101781 from the U.S. Department of Educat ion,Program for  the Hearing Impaired.REFERENCESBorko, Harold and Bern ie r ,  Char les .
1975.Abst rac t in~ Concepts and Methods.
New York:Academic Press.Comrie, Bernard.
1976.
Aspect .
Cambridge:Cambridge Un ivers i ty  P ress .Decker, Nan.
1985.
Syntact i c  c lues  tod i scourse  s t ruc ture :  A case  from journa l i sm.Ph.D.
d i sser ta t ion ,  Brown Un ivers i ty .DeJong, Gera ld .
1979.
Skimming s tor iesin  rea l  t ime: An exper iment  in in tegratedunders tand ing .
Research Report  #158, Depart -ment of Computer Sc ience ,  Yale Un ivers i ty .F ranc is ,  W. Nelson and Kucera, Henry.
1982.Frequency Ana lys is  of Eng l i sh  Usage.
Boston;Houghton-Mi f f l in  Company.Green, Georgia.
1979.
Organ izat ion ,  goa ls  andcomprehens ib i l i ty  in nar ra t ives :  newswr i t ing ,  acase study.
Technical Report #132.
The Center forthe Study of Reading, University of Illinois atUrbana-Champaign.Grimes, Joseph.
1975.
The Thread of Dlscourse.Janua Linguarum, Series Minor, no.
207.
TheHague: Mouton.Hirschman, Lynette and Sager, Naomi.
1982.Automatic information formatting of a medicalsubtanguage.
In R. K i t t redge  and J. Lehrberger(Eds . )
,  SubLan~ua~e: S tud ies  in Language ~nRest r i c ted  Semantic Domains.
New York: Walterde Gruyter .Hopper, Paul.
1979.
Aspect and foregroundingin discourse.
In T. Glvon (Ed.
), Syntax andand Semantics, rot.
12.
New York: Academic Press.and Thompson, Sandra.
1980.Transitivity in grammar and discourse.
Language 56:251-299.Mourelatos ,  A lexander .
1981.
Events ,  processesand states.
In P. Tedesch?
and A. Zaenen (Eds.
),Syntax and Semantics, vol.
Z4.
New York:Academic Press.Ota, Akira.
1963.
Tense and Aspect of Present-Day American English.
Tokyo: Kenkyusha.Sager,  Naomi.
1981.
Natura l  Language In fo r -mation Process ing :  A Computer Grammar of Eng l i shand i t s  Applications.
Reading, MA: Addison-Wesley.Schank, Richard and R lesbeck,  Chr i s topher .
1981.Ins ide  Computer Unders tand ing .
H i l l sda le ,  NJ:Lawrence ErLOaum Assoc ia tes .Thompson, Sandra.
1983.
Grammar and d iscourse :The Engl i sh  detached par t i c ip ia l  phrase .
InF.
K le in-Andreu (Ed . )
,  D iscourse Perspect ives  onSyntax.
New York: Academic P ress .322Vendler, Zeno.
1967.
L inguis t ics  in Philosophy.~thaca, N?
: Coruell  Univers i ty  Press.Woods, W~lliam.
1973.
An experimental parsingsystem for t rans i t ion  network grammars.
InR.
Rustin (Ed.
),  Natural Language Processing.Englewood C l i f f s ,  NJ: P rent ice-Ha l l .323
