REPAIRING REFERENCE IDENTIFICATION FAILURESBY RELAXATIONBradley A. GoodmanBBN LaboratoriesI0 Moulton StreetCambridge.
Mass.
02238ABSTRACTThe goal of thls work is the enrichment ofhuman-mach lne  mteractIons in a natural languageenvlronment.
1 We want to provide a f ramework lessrestrictive than earlier ones by allowing a speakerleeway tn forming an utterance about a task and indetermining the conversational vehicle to deliver it, Aspeaker and listener cannot be assured to have thesame beliefs, contexts, backgrounds or goals at eachpoint in a conversation.
As a result, dlfflcultles andmistakes arise when a listener interprets a speakersutterance.
These mistakes can lead to various kinds ofmlsunderstandlngs between speaker and hstener.including reference failures or failure to understandthe speaker's mtentlon.
We cal l  thesemtsunderstandlngs mlscommunmat lon  Such m~stakesconstitute a klnd of "ill-formed" input that can slowdown end possibly break down communication.
Our goal~s to recognize and Isolate such mlscommunlcattons andcircumvent them.
Thls paper will hlghhght a particularclass of mlscommunlcat lon - reference problems - bydescr lbmg a case study, includlng techniques foravoldlng failures of referenceI IntroductionCohen, Perrault and Allen showed in thelr paper"Beyond Question Answering" \[8~ that ",.. users ofcluestlon-answerzng systems expect them to do morethan just answer isolated questions - -  they expectsystems to engage tn conversation.
In doing ~o, thesystem ts expected to allow users to be less thanmeticulously hteral ~n conveying their zntentlons, and ttis expected to make hnguxstlc and pragmatic use of theprevious discourse."
Following in thelr footsteps, wewant to build robust natural language processingsystems that can detect and recover frommlsc~mmunlcatton.
The development of such systemsrequires s study on how people communicate and howthey recover from problems In communication.
Thispaper summarizes the results of a dissertation \[13\]that tnvestlgates the kinds of mlscommunlcat lon thatoccur in human communicat ion with a special emphasison reference prooiems, i.e.. problems a listener hasdetermining whom or what a speaker ts talking about.We have written computer  programs and algorithms thatdemonstrate h~w one could handle such problems mIThis reseorcn was suDDorted in port by the OefeneeAdvonce4 Reseorch Pro~ect Aqency under ?ontr=ct  Neee14--77--C-~378.the context of a natural language understand2ngsystem.
The study of mzscommunlcat lon is a necessarytask w l thm such a context since any computer  capableof communlcat~ng with humans  tn natural language mustbe tolerant of the tmprecIse, lll-devlsed or complexutterances that people often use.Our current research \[25, 26\] views mostdialogues as being cooperatlve and goal directed, l,e.. aspeaker and hstener work  together to achieve acommon goal.
The interpretation of an utteranceinvolves Identifying the underlying plan or goal thatthe utterance reflects \[5.
I, 23\].
Thls plan, however, israrely, d ever, obvious at the surface sentence level.A central issue In the interpretation of utterances tsthe transformation of sequences of imprecise, zll-devised or complex utterances into well-speclhed plansthat might be carried out by dialogue participants.Within thls context, mlscommunlcat lon can occur.We ere particularly concerned with cases ofmxscommunlcat lon from the heater's viewpoint, such aswhen the hearer is mattentlve to.
confused about, ormisled about the zntentlons of the speaker.
Inordinary exchanges speakers usually make assumptionsregarding what thelr listeners know about a topic ofdiscussion.
They w111 leave out details thought to besuperfluous \[2.
19\].
Since the speaker really does notknow exactly what  a listener knows about a topic, tt tseasy to make statements that can be misinterpreted ornot understood by the listener because not enoughdetails were presented.
One principal source of troubleIs the description constructed by the speaker to referto an actual object in the world.
The descmptlon canbe tmpreclse, confused, ambiguous or over!v speclflc.
Itmight be interpreted under  the wrong context.
Thisleads to dlfflculty for the hstener when figuring outwhat oblect ~s being described, that Is.
ref.erenceidentification errors.
Such descriptions are "all-formed" input, the blame for ill-formedness may liepartly with the speaker and partly with the listenerThe speaker may have been sloppy or not taken thehearer into consideration, the listener may be eitherremiss or unwilling to admit he can't understand thespeaker and to ask the speaker for clarification, ormay slmply feel that he has understood when he zn facthas not.Thls work ts part of an on-going effort  todevelop a reference Identlfzcatmn and plan recognitionmechan ism that can exhibit more "human-hke  'tolerance of such utterances.
Our goal zs to build amore robust system that can handle errorfulutterances, and ~hat can be incorporated in exlstlngsystems.
As a start, we have concentrated onre fe rence  tdentlflcatzon.
In conversation people useimperfect descriptions to communicate  about objects;sometimes their partners succeed zn understanding andoccasionally they fail.
Any computer  hoping to play thepart of a listener must be capable of taking what the204speaker says and either deleting, adapting or clarifyingit.
We are developing a theory of the use ofextensional descrlptlons that will help exp lam howpeople successfully use such imperfect descriptions.We call thls the theory of reference mlscommunlcat ionSection 2 of this paper highlights some aspects ofnormal communicat ion and then provides a generaldiscussion on the types of miscommunlcat lon that occurIn conversation, concentrating primarily on referenceproblems and motivating many of them with Illustrativeprotocols.
Section 3 presents possible ways aroundsome of the problems of miscommunxcation in reference.Motivated there is a partial Implementation of areference mechanism that attempts to overcome manyreference problems.We are following the task -omented  paradigm ofGrosz  \ [14 \ ]  s ince  i t  Is easy  to  s tudy  ( throughv ideotapes) .
It p laces  the  wor ld  In f ront  of you  (apr imar i ly  extens iona l  wor ld ) ,  and  It l imi ts  thed l scuss lon  wh l le  s t i l l  p rov id ing  a r l ch  env i ronment  fo rcomplex  descr ip t ions .
The task  chosen  as  the  ta rgetfo r  the  sys tem Is the  assembly  of a toy  water  pump.The water  pump Is reasonab ly  complex ,  conta in ing  foursubassembl ies  that  a re  bu i l t  f rom p las t i c  tubes ,nozz les ,  va lves ,  p lungers ,  and  caps  that  can  be sc rewedor  pushed together .
A la rge  corpus  of d ia loguesconcern ing  th l s  task  was  co l lec ted  by  Cohen (see\[7.
8.
9\]) .
These  d ia logues  conta ined  ins t ruct ions  f roman  "exper t "  to  an  "apprent ice"  that  exp la in  theassembly of the toy water pump, Both participantswere  work ing  to ach ieve  a common goa l  - thesuccess fu l  assembly  of the  pump Thls  domain  Is r l chm perceptua l  in fo rmat ion ,  a l low ing  fo r  complexdescr ip t ions  of e lements  in it.
The data  prov ideexamples of imprecision, confusion, and ambiguity aswe!l as attempts to correct these prob lemsThe following exchange exemplifies one suchsituation.
Here A Is instructing J to assemble part ofthe  water  pump.
Refer  to F igure  l (a )  fo r  a p ic ture  ofthe  pump.
A and  J a re  communicat ing  verba l ly  butne i ther  can  see  the  o ther .
(The bracketed  text  In theexcerpt  te l l s  what  was  actua l ly  occur r ing  whi le  eachut terance  was  spoken. )
Not lce  the  complex i ty  of thespeaker ' s  descr ip t ions  and  the  resu l tant  p rocess ingrequ i red  by the  l i s tener ,  Thls  d ia logue  i l lus t ra tes  whenl i s teners  repa i r  the  speakers  descr ip t ion  in o rder  tof lnd  a re ferent ,  when they  repa i r  the i r  mzt la l  re ferencechoice once  they  are  g iven  more  in format ion ,  and  whenthey  fal l  t ~.
choose  a proper  re ferent  In Linp 7, A:\[,=scribes the two holes on the BAjEVALVE as "the httleho ie"  J must  repa i r  the  descr lp t lon ,  reahzmg that Adoesnt  rea l ly  mean "one  ho le  but  is re fer r ing  to t,~e' two '  ho les .
J apparent ly  does  th i s  s ince  he doesntcompla in  about  as  descr ip t ion  and  cor rect ly  a t tachesthe BASEVALVE to the TUBEBASE F igure  l ib )  showsthe conf igurat ion  of the pump af ter  the TUBEBASE isa t tached to the  MAINTUBE "n Lme I0, \[n Lme 13.
Jin terprets  "a  red  p las t i c  p iece"  to re fer  to  the  .VOZZLEWhen A adds  the  re la t ive  c lause  " that  has  four  g i=moson it."
J is forced to drop the NOZZLE as the referentand to se{ect the SLLDEV~LVE In Lmes  i7 and 18, A'Sdescription "the other - - the  open part of the malntube.
the lower valve" is ambiguous, and J selects thewrong s l te ,  namely  the  TUBEBAEE, in which  to inser tthe SLIDEVALVE.
Since the SL/DEVALVE flts, J doesn'tdetect  any  trouble.
L~nes 20 and 21 keep I f romth ink ing  that  someth ing  is wrong because  the  par t  f i tsloose ly ,  In L~nes 27 and 28, J i nd icates  that  A dld notglve him enough znformat lon  to perform the requestedact ion .
In Lme 30.
J fu r ther  compounds  the  er ror  inLine 18 by putting the  SPOUT on the  TUBEBASE.Excerpt  1 (Te lephone)A. I.
Now there 's  a b lue  cap\[J grabs  the  TUBEBASE\]2. that  has  two l i t t le  teeth  s t i ck ing3.
out  of  the  bot tom of it.J: 4.
Yeah.A.
5.
Okay On that take the6.
brlght shocking pink piece of plastic\[J takes BASEVALVE\]7. and stick the little hole over theteeth .\[J s ta r ts  to i ns ta l l  the  BASEVALVE.
backs  off, looksat it again and then  goes  ahead andinsta l l s  it\]J.
8 OkayA: 9 Now screw that  b lue  cap  ontoI0.
the  bot tom of the  maln  tube .\[J screws TUBEBASE onto MAINTUBE\]J.
11.
OkayA.
12 Now.
there 's  a - -13. a red  p las t i c  p iece\[J starts for NOZZLE\]14 that  has  four  g i zmos  on  It.\[J switches to SLIDEVALVE\]J.
15  Yes.A 16 Okay Put the ungtzmoed end In theuh17 the o ther - - the  open18 par t  of the  maln  tube ,  the  lowerva lve\[3 puts  SLIDEVALVE in to  ho le  in  TUBEBASE, but  Ameant OUTLET2 of MAINTUBE\]I 19 All r ightA 20 !t ;ust hts loosely It .doesnt'~I have to f'.t right.
Okay.
then take.~2 the clear plastic elbow \]omt\[J takes SPOUT\]J 23 All r ightA $4 And put tt over the bottom opening,too.\[J trees installing SPOUT on TI/BEBASE\]l -~ Okaya.
28.
Okay  Now.
take  the- -27 Which end  am I supposed to put  Itover')28 Do you know ?A.
-:'9 Put the - -put  the - - the  big end- -30 the blg end over it.\[J pushes big end of SPOUT on TUBEBASE.
twlstlngzt to force it on\]205NO:zZeFigure I:I,~.d)I'(a) (b)The Toy Water PumpC2 MiscommunicationPeople must and do manage to resolve lots of(potentaal) mascommumcataon In everyday conversataon.Much of it as resolved subconscaously wlth thehstener unaware that anything is wrong, Othermlscommumcat lon  is resolved wath the listener activelydeleting or replacang mformataon m the speakersutterance until It flts the current context.
Sometimesthls resolutlon Is postponed until the questlonable partof the utterance is actually needed.
Shl l .
when allthese fail.
the hstener can ask the speaker to clarlfywhat was said.
2There are many aspects of an utterance that thehstener can become confused about and that can leadto mascommunacatton.
The hstener can becomeconfused about what the speaker intends for thereferents, the actaons, and the goals described by theutterance, Confuslons often appear to result fromconfhct between the current state of the conversation.the overall goal of the speaker, or the manner  In whichthe speaker presented the anformatlon.
However, whenthe hstener steps back and is able to discover whatk~nd of confuslon ~s occurring, then the confusion canqulte possibly be resolved.2.1 Causes of mlscommunicat ionThls sectaon attempts to motlvate a paradlgm forthe kinds of conversation that we studled and traes topoint out places m the paradlgm that leave room formlscommumcat lon.~'.1.1 Ef fec ts  of the  s t ruc ture  of task -or ienteddia loguesTask-or iented conversatlons have a speclfic goalto be achleved: the performance of a task (e.g.. \[14\]).The partlclpants in the dlalogue can have the sameskill level and they can slmply work  together toaccomplish the task; or one of them, the expert, couldknow more and could direct the other, the apprentlce.to perform the task.
We have concentrated prlmarllyon the latter case - due to the protocols that weexamlned - but many of our observations can begenerahzed to the former case, too.
We will refer tothls as the apprent lce-expert  domaln.The v lewpomts  of the expert and apprentlce differgreatly In apprent lce-expert  exchanges.
The expert,having an understandlng of the functlonahty of theelements in the task.
has more of a feel for how theelements work  together, how they go together, and howthe indlvldual elements can be used.
The apprentlcenormally has no such knowledge and must base hlsdeclslons on perceptual features such as shape \[15\].The structure of the task affects the structure ofthe dlalogue \[14}.
partlcularly through the center ofattentlon of the expert and apprentlce.
Thls is thephenomenon called focus \[14.
20.
24\].
whlch, in task-orlented dlalogues Is a very real and operational thlng(e.g., focus is used In resolving anaphorac references).Shafts ~n focus correspond dlrectly to the task, atssubtasks, the oblects an a task and the subpleces ofeach object Focus and focus shifts are governed bymany rules \[14. :~0, 24\] Confusaon may result whenexpected shafts do not take place.
For example.
If theexpert changes focus to an object but never discussesIts subpaeces ~such as an obvaous attachment surface)or never bothers to talk about the object reasonablysoon after its antroductlon (Le., between the tame of ~tsmtroduct lon and its use.
without digressing in a well-structured way In between (see \[20\])), then theapprentlce may become confused, leavang hlm r~pe formlscommunlcatlon.
The reverse anfluence between focusand oblects can lead to trouble, too.
A shzft In focusby the expert that does not have a manHestat lon Inthe apprentlce's world wall also perplex the apprent iceFocus also influences how descr:ptlons areformed \[15, 2\].
The level of detail requlred in adescription depends directly on the elements currentlyhighlighted by the focus If the oblect to be descrabedIs samflar to other element~ m focus, the expert mustbe more speclhc m the formulation of the descraptlonor may conslder shlftmg focus away from the posslblyambiguous objects to one where the amblgulty wontoccur.2.2 Consequences  of miscommunicat lonIn thls section we will make It clear that peopledo m:scommunlcate and yet they often manage to flxthlngs.
We will look at speclfic forms ofmlscommunlcat lon and descrlbe ways to detect them.We will hzghhght relatlonsh;ps between differentmlscommunzcat;on problems but won't necessarzlydemonstrate ways to resolve each of them.2An analysis of c la r i f i ca t ion  suodialogues can be found;n \[17).2062.2.1 Ins tances  of mtscommun/cat ionThere are  many ways hearers  can  get  confuseddur ing  a conversat ion .
F igure  2 out l ines  some of themthat  were der ived  from ana lyz ing  the  water  pumpprotoco ls .
This sec t ion  def ines  and i l l us t ra tes  many ofthem through numerous  excerpts .
Each excerpt  ismarked  in parentheses  to show what  moda l i ty  ofcommunicat ion  was used  (see \[9\] for a descr ip t ionabout  the  co l lec t ion  of these  excerpts ) .
Eachbracketed  por t ion  of the  excerpt  exp la ins  what  wasoccur r ing  at  that  po in t  in the  d ia logue.
The confus ionsthemse lves ,  coup led  with the  descr ip t ion  at  the  end ofth i s  sec t ion  on how to recogn ize  when one of them isoccur r ing ,  p rov ides  mot ivat ion  for the  use of thea lgor i thm out l ined  in Sect ion  3 as a means  forrepa i r ing  communicat ion  prob lems.
We will on ly  d i scussre ferent  confus ion  tn th i s  paper .
The o ther  forms ofconfus ion  - Action.
Goal, and Cogmt ive  Load - aredescr ibed  in \[11.
13\].
Another  categor i za t ion  ofconfusmns  that  lead to conversat ion  fa i lu re  can  befound in \[22\].?
F igure  2: A taxonomy of confusmnsReferent  ~onfus lon occurs  when the l i s tener  isunab le  to correct ly  determine  what the  speaker  isre fe r r ing  to with a par t i cu la r  descr lp tmn.
\[t occurswhen the descr ip t ions  In the  u t te rance  are  ambiguousor imprec ise ,  when there  IS confus ion  between thespeaker  and l i s tener  about  what  the current  focus orcontext  Is, or when the  descr ip t ions  in the  u t te ranceare  e i ther  incor rec t  or incompat ib le  with the  cur rentor g lobal  context .E r roneous  Spec i f i c i tyAmbiguous (and.
thus,  imprec ise)  descnptxons  cancause  confus ion about  the  re ferent .
Excerpt  2 belowi l lus t ra tes  a case  where  the  speaker ' s  descr ip t ion  isunderspecxf led  - it does not  prov ide  enough dated  toprune  the set  of poss ib le  re fe rents  down to one.Excerpt  2 (Pace- to -Face)S 1.
And now take  the l i t t le  red3.
peg,\[P takes  PLUG\]3.
Yes,4.
and p lace  it xn the  hole at  the5.
g reen  end.\[P s ta r ts  to put  PLUG into  OUTLETR of MAINTUBE\]6. no7.
the - - in  the  green  th ing\[P puts  PLUG into  green  par t  of PLUNGER\]P: 8.
Okay.In Line 4 and  5, S descr ibes  the  locat ion  to p lace  a pegin to  a ho le  by g iv ing spat ia l  in fo rmat ion .
S ince thelocat ion  is g iven re la t ive  to another  locat ion  by "in thehole  at  the  green  end", i t  de f ines  a reg ion  where  thepeg might  go ins tead  of a spec i f i c  locat ion .
In th ispar t i cu la r  case,  there  a re  th ree  poss ib le  ho les  tochoose  from that  a re  near  the  green  end.
The l i s tenerchooses  one - the  wrong one - and  inser ts  the  peginto  it.
Because  th i s  d ia logue  took p lace  face to face,S is ab le  to cor rec t  the  ambigu i ty  in Lines 6 and  7.A speaker ' s  descr ip t ion  can  be imprec ise  insevera l  poss ib le  ways.
(1) It may conta in  features  thatdo not  read i ly  app ly  in the  domain.
In f ine  3, Excerpt3, the  feature  " funny"  has  no re levance  to the  l i s tener .It is not  unt i l  A p rov ides  a fu l le r  descr ip t ion  in Lines 5to 8 that  E is ab le  to se lec t  the  proper  p iece.
(2) Itmay use a vague  head  noun coup led  with few or nofeature  va lues  (and context  a lone does  not  necessar i l ysuf f ice  to d i s t ingu ish  the  object) .
In Excerpt  4, Line 9,"a t tachment"  is vague  because  al l  ob jec ts  in thedomain  are  a t tachab le  par ts .
The exper t ' s  use  of"a t tachment"  was most l i ke ly  to s igna l  the  ac t ion  theapprent ice  can  expect  to take  next .
The use of thefeature  va lue  "clear'* p rov ides  l i t t le  benef i t  e i therbecause  three  c lear ,  unused  par ts  ex is t .
The s izedescr ip tor  " l i t t le "  p runes  th i s  set  of poss ib le  re fe rentsdown to two contenders .
(3) Enough feature  va lues  a reprov ided  but  at  leas t  one va lue  is too vague  lead ing  tot roub le .
In Excerpt  5, Line 3, the  use of the  a t t r ibuteva lue  " rounded"  to descr ibe  the  shape  does notsu f f i c ient ly  reduce  the set  of four poss ib le  re fe rents( though,  in th i s  par t i cu la r  ins tance ,  A cor rec t lyident i f ies  it) because  the  term is app l i cab le  tonumerous  par ts  In the  dommn.
A more prec i se  shapedescr ip tor  such  as "be l l - shaped"  or "cy l indr i ca l "  wouldhave  been  more benef i c ia l  to the  l i s tener ,Excerpt  3 (Te lephone)E: I.
All r ight .2.
Now.3.
There's another  funny l i t t le4.
red  th ing,  a\[A is confused ,  examines  both  NOZZLESX.,mr-VALVE \]5. l i t t le  teeny  red th ing that ' s6.
some- -shou ld  be somewhere  on7.
the  desk,  that  has  um- - there 's8.
l ike teeth  on one end.\[E takes  SLIDEVALVE\]andA: 9.
Okay.E: 10.
I t 's  a funny- loo - -ho l low,11.
hol low pro jec t ion  on one end12.
and then  teeth  on the other .Excerpt  4 (Teletype)A: I. take  the  red th ing with the2.
p rongs  on it3.
and fit i t  onto the  o ther  hole4.
of the  cy l inder5.
so that  the  prongs  are6.
s t i ck ing  out2O7R: 7. okA: 8. now take the c lear  l ittle9.
a t tachment10.
and put  on the hole where you11.
jus t  put  the red cap on12.
make sure  it po ints13.
upwardR: 14. okF, xeerpt  5 (Teletype)S; I. Ok,2.
put  the  red nozzle on the out let3.
of the rounded c lear  chamber4.
ok?A: 5. got it.Improper  FocusFocus confus ion  can occur  when the speaker  setsup one focus and then proceeds  with another  onewithout  lett ing the l i s tener  know of the switch (i.e., afocus shift  occurs  without  any indicat ion).
An opposi tephenomenon can also happen - the l i s tener  may feelthat  a focus shift  has  taken place when the speakeractual ly never  in tended one.
These real ly are verysimilar - one Is viewed more s t rong ly  from theperspect ive  of the speaker  and the o ther  from thel istener.Excerpt  6 below lUust ra tes  an mstance  of thef i rst  type of focus confus ion.
In the excerpt ,  thespeaker  (S) shi f ts  focus without noti fying the l is tener(P) of the switch.
As the excerpt  begins,  P ,s holdingthe TUBEBASE.
S prov ides in Lines 1 to 16mst ructzons  for P to a t tach  the CAP and the SPOUT toout lets  OUTLETI and OUTLET2, respect ively,  on theMAINTUSE.
Upon P's success fu l  complet ion of thesea t tachments .
S switches focus m Lines 17 to 20 to theTUSESASE assembly and requests  P to screw tt on tothe bottom of the M,e/NTUSE.
White P completes thetask.
S real izes she left out  a step in the assembly -the p lacement of the SLIDEVALVE into OUTLET2 of theM,eJNTUSE before the SPOUT ts placed over the sameoutlet.
S a t tempts  to cor rect  her  mistake byrequest ing  P to remove "the pies "~ piece in ~nes  22and 23.
Since S never  indicated a shift  in focus fromthe TUSESASE back to the IPOUT, P mterprets  "thepies" to refer  to the TUSESASE.Excerpt  6 (Face- to -Face)S 1.
And place2.
the blue cap that ' s  left\[P takes CAP\]3. on the side holes that  are3The whole ward here is "p leet i c . "
People in generaltend to be good ot proceedinq before heorin 9 the wholeutteronce or even the whole word.4.
on the cyl inder,\[P lays down TUBEBASE\]5. the side hole that  is fa r thest6.
from the green  end.\[P puts  CAP on OUTLET!
of MAINTUBE\]P: 7.
Okay.S; 8.
And take the nozz le - look ing9.
piece,\[P g rabs  NOZZLE\]10. no11.
I mean the c lear  p last ic  one,\[P takes  SPOUT\]12. and place it on the o ther  hole\[P ident i f ies O ~  of MA1NTUBE\]13. that ' s  left,14.
so that  nozzle po ints  away15.
from the\[P insta l ls  SPOUT on OUTLET2 of MAINTUBE\]16. r ight.P: 17.
Okay.S: 18.
Now19.
take the20.
cap base thing\[P takes  TUBEBASE\]21. and screw it onto the bottom,\[P sorewsTUBEBASE on)L~3NTUBE\]22, ooops,\[S real izes she has  fo rgot ten  to have P putSLIDL~ALVE into OUTLET2 of MAINTUBE\]23. un -undo  the pies\[P s ta r ts  to take  TUBEBASE off MAINTUBE\]24. no25.
the c lear p last ic  thing that  I26.
told you to put  on\[P removes SPOUT\]27. sorry.28.
And place the l ittle red thing\[P takes  $LID~ALVZ\]29. tn there  f irst,\[P mser ts  SLXD~ALVZ into OUTLET~ of M\[AINT~E\]30. it f its loosely in there.Excerpt  7 below demonst ra tes  the la t ter  type offocus confuszon that  occurs  when the speaker  (S) setsup one focus - the M,4\]NTUBE, which is the cor rectfocus In this case - but  then proceeds  in such amanner  that  the l i s tener  (J) th inks  a focus shift toanother  piece, the TUBESASE, has occur red .
Thus,Line 15 re fers  to " the lower side hole in theM,41NTUBE" for S and " the hole in the TUBEBASE" forJ.
J has  no way of real iz ing that  he has  focusedincor rect ly  un less  the  descr ip t ion  as he in terprets  itdoesn ' t  have a real world cor re la te  (here  somethingdoes sat isfy the descr ipt ion  so J doesn ' t  sense  anyproblem) or  if, la ter  in the  exchange,  a conf l ict  ar i ses2O8due to the mistake (e.g,, a requested  act ion can not  beperformed).
In Line 31, J inser ts  a piece into thewrong hole because  of the misunders tand ing  in Line 15.Line 31 h ints  that  J may have become susp ic ious  thatan ambiguity existed but  s ince the task  wassuccessfu l ly  completed (i.e., the red piece fit into thehole in the base),  and s ince S did not  provide anyclar i f icat ion, he assumed he was cor rect .hcerpt  7 (Telephone)S: 1.
Um now.2.
Now we're gett ing a l ittle3.
more difficult.J: 4.
( laughs)S: 5.
Pick out  the large air  tube\ [ l  picks up SAND\ ]6. that  has the p lunger  in it.\[J puts  down STAND.
takes  PLUNGER/MAINTUB~.assembly\]J: 7.
Okay.S: 8.
And set it on ~ts base,\[J puts  down idAINTUBE, s tand ing vert ical ly,  on theTABLE\]9. which is blue now,10.
rzght?\[J has  shi f ted focus to the TUBEBASE\]J: 11.
Yeah.$, 12.
Base is blue.13.
Okay.14.
Now15.
You've got a bottom hole still16.
to be filled,17.
cor rec t?J: 18.
Yeah.\[J answers  this with MAINTUBE stil l s i t t in t  on theTABLE; he shows no indicat ion of whathole he th inks  i8 meant  - the one onthe MAINTUBE.
OUTLET2, or  the one inthe TUBEBASE\]\[JS.picks19.
Okay.20.
You have one red piece21.
remamm8?up ldA/NTUBE assembly and looks atTUBEBASE, ro ta t ine  the MAINTUBE sothat  TUBP-BASE is po inted up, andsees the hole in i t ;  he then  looks atthe SLIDEVALVE\]J: 22.
Yeah.3.
23.
Okay.24.
Take that  red piece.\[j takes  SIJDEVALVE\]25.
It 's got four l ittle feet on26.
it?J: 27.
Yeah.S; 28.
And put  the small end into29.
that  hole on the air tube- -30. on the big tube.\[JJ; 31.
On the very  bot tom?s tar ts  to put  it into the bottom hole ofTUBEBASE - though he ind icates  he isunsure  of himself\]S: 32.
On the bot tom,33.
Yes.Misfocus can also occur  when the speakerinadver tent ly  lefts to d is t ingu ish  the proper  focusbecause  he did not  not ice a poss ib le ambiguity; orwhen, th rough no fault  of the speaker ,  the l i s tener  jus tfails to recognize a switch in focus indicated by thespeaker .
~xcerpt  7 above is an example of the f i rsttype because  S failed to not ice that  an amblguztyexisted since he never  explicit ly b rought  the TUBEBASEe i ther  into or  out  of focus.
He just  assumed that  Jhad the same perspect ive  as hzm - a perspect ive  inwhich uo ambiguity occur red .Wrong ContextContext differs from focus.
The context  of apor t ion  of a conversat ion  is concerned  with the po:ntof the d iscuss ion in that  f ragment and with the set ofobjects  re levant  to that  d iscussion,  though nota t tended to current ly .
Focus per ta ins  to the elementswhich are cur rent ly  being at tended to in the context.For example, two people can share  the same contextbut  have di f ferent focus ass ignments  wt~hm it - we'reboth talking about  the water  pump but you ' redescr ib ing the MA/NTUB?
and I'm descr lbmg theAIRCH,4MB?,q.
Alternatively, we could JUst be uslngdi f ferent contexts  - I th ink you' re  talking about takingthe pump apar t  but  you ' re  talking about  replh^lng thepump with new par ts  - m both cases we m~v beshar ing  the same focus - the pump - but our  conte~,sare total ly off from one another .
~ The kinds ofmisunders tand ings  that  can occur  because of contextproblems are similar to those for focus problems: (1)the speaker  might set  up or be xn one context  for ad iscuss ion and then proceed in another  one withouteffectively lett ing the l i s tener  know of the change, (2)the l i s tener  may feel a change in context  has takenplace when in fact the speaker  never  Intended one, or(:3) the Listener fails to recognize an indicated contextswitch by the speaker .
Context affects re ferencebecause  it helps define the set of available oblects thatare possible contenders  for the re ferent  of thespeaker ' s  descr ipt ions.
If the contexts  of the speakerand l is tener  differ, then m|sre ference  might result .Bad AnaloEyAn analogy (see \[I0\] for ?
discusslon onanalogies) is a useful  way to help descr lbe an object byattempt lng to be more prec ise  by using shared  pastexpemence and knowledge - espec:al ly shape andfunct ional  reformation.
If that  past  experxence orknowledge doesn' t  conta in  the reformation the speakerassumes it does or isn ' t  there,  then trouble occurs.Thus.
one more way re ferent  confus ion can occur  Is bydescr ib ing an oh}act using ?
poor  analogy.
An analogyused to descr ibe an object might not be spec:fic4Groez \[14, lS\] would dem~ril~ th is  as o d i f ference in"task DIane J ~ i le  Rai?ltlNnt \[2e, 21\] m~uld say that the"c0mlmmjcativa gCNlie" dJffare?l.2O9enough - confus ing  the l i s tener  because  severa l  p iecesmight  conform to the  ana logy  or, tn fact ,  none  at  al lappear  to f i t  because  d i scover ing  a mapp ing  betweenthe  ana logous  ob ject  and  some p iece  in theenv i ronment  Is too di f f icul t .
In Excerpt  8, J at  f i r s thas  t roub le  cor rec t ly  sa t i s fy ing  A's funct iona l  ana logy"s topper"  in " the  bag b lue  s topper" ,  but  f ina l ly  se lec tswhat  he cons iders  to be the  c loses t  match  to"s topper" .Excerpt  8 (Te lephone)A: I.
Okay.
Now.2.
take the big blue3.
stopper that's laying around\[J g rabs  ~diCI4AMBER\]4.
.. and take the black5, r ing--J: 6.
The big b lue  s topper?\[J is confused  and  t r ies  to communicate  i t  to  A; heis ho ld ing  the  AIRCHAMBER here \ ]A.
7 Yeah.8.
the blg blue s topper9.
and the b lack  r ing\[J d rops  AIRCHAMBER and  takes  the  O-RING andthe  TUBEBASE\]In o ther  cases  tt might be too spec i f i c  -con fus ing  the l i s tener  because  none of the  ava i lab lere ferents  appear  to fit it.
In Line 8 of Excerpt  6,"nozz le - look ing"  forms a poor  shape  ana logy  becausethe ob ject  being re fer red  to ac tua l ly  Is an e lbow-shaped spout .
The "nozz le - look lng"  par t  of thedescr ip t ion  conv inced  the l i s tener  that  what  he waslook ing for was someth ing  spec i f i c  l ike a nozz le  (whichxs a small  spout) .
Somet imes,  when an ob lec t  xs a c learrepresentat ive  of a spec i f ied  ana logy  c lass ,  theapprent2ce  may become confused ,  wonder ing  why theexper t  bothered  to form an ana logy  mstead  of jus td i rec t ly  descr ib ing  the  ob ject  as a member of the  c lass.Hence, tt would not  be surpr i s ing  d the  apprent icetgnoreu  the best  representatnve  of the c lass  for someless  obv ious exemplar .
Thus, for example,  It ts bet ter  tosay "nozz le"  ins tead  of "nozz le - look ing . "
In Excerpt  9,the  descr ip t ion  "h ippopotamus  face shape"  (a shapeanalogy) tn Lines 2 and 3, and "champagne top" (ashape  ana logy)  in Line 9. e re  too spec lhc  and thehs tener  ts unab le  to eas i ly  f ind someth ing  c lose  enoughto match e i ther  of them.
He can ' t  d i scover  a mappingbetween the ob lect  in the  ana logy  and one in the  rea lworld.Excerpt  9 (Audiotape)M; I. take  the  br ight  p lnk f lat2.
p iece  of h ippopotamus  face3.
shape  p iece of p las t i c4.
and you not i ce  that  the  two5.
ho les  on xt\[M is t r~tng to re fer  to BASEVALVE\]6. match7.
a long with the  two8.
peg ho les  on the9.
champagne top sor t  of10.
look ing bot tom that  hadI I .
th reads  on It\[M is t ry in  E to re fer  to TUBEBASE\]Descr ip t ion  incompat ib i l i tyIncompat ib le  descr ip t ions  can  lead  to confus ionalso.
A descr ip t ion  is incompat ib le  when (1) one ormore of the  spec i f ied  cond i t ions ,  i.e., the  featureva lues ,  do not  sa t i s fy  any of the  p ieces ;  (2) when oneor  more spec i f ied  const ra in ts  do not  ho ld  (e.g.. say ing" the  loose one" when all  ob jec ts  a re  t ight ly  a t tached) .or  (3) if no one ob ject  sa t i s f ies  al_~l of the  featuresspec i f ied  in the  descr ip t ion .
In Lines 7 and 8 ofExcerpt  9 above,  M's use  of " the  two peg ho les"  leadsto  bewi lderment  for  the  l i s tener  because  the  descr ibedob ject  has  no ho les  in it.
M actua l ly  meant  "two pegs".2.2.2 Detect ing  miscommunicat lonPar t  of our  research  has  been  to examine  how al i s tener  d i scovers  the  need  for a repa i r  of anu t te rance  or a descr ip t ion  dur ing  communicat ion .
Theincompat ib i l i ty  of a re fe rent  or ac t ion  is one s igna l  ofposs ib le  t roub le .
The appearance  of an obstac le  thatb locks  one from ach iev ing  a goal  is another  ind icat ionof a problem.Incompat ib i l l tyTwo k inds  of incompat~btl t ty,  ac t ion  or re fe rent .appear  In the  taxonomy of confus ions .
The s t rongesth int  that  there  is a re fe rence  prob lem occurs  when thel i s tener  f inds no rea l  world ob ject  to cor respond to thespeaker ' s  descr ip t ion .
This can occur  when (1) one ormore of the  spec i f ied  feature  va lues  xn the  descr ip t ionare  not  sa t i s f ied  by any of the  p ieces  (e .g .
say ing  " theorange  cap" when none of the  ob jec ts  a re  orange~.
{2)when one or more spec i f ied  const ra in ts  do not hold(e.g., say ing  " the  red plug that  f i ts  loose ly"  when allthe red p lugs  a t tach  t ight ly) ,  or (3) If no one ob jectsa t i s f ies  al l  of the  features  spec i f ied  m the descr ip t ion(I.e., ther 'e - ts ,  for each  feature ,  an ob ject  that  exh ib i t sthe  spec i f ied  feature  value,  but  no one ob ject  exh ib i t sall  of the  va lues) .
An ac t ion  prob lem xs l ike ly  ~f I l) thel i s tener  cannot  per form the  ac t ion  spec i f ied  by thespeaker  because  of some obstac le ;  (2) the  hs tenerper fo rms the ac t ion  but  does  not  a r r lve  at  i ts  in tendedef fect  (I.e., a spec i f ied  or  de fau l t  const ramt  l sn tsat is f ied) ;  or (3) the  cur rent  ac t ion  a f fec ts  a p rev iousac t ion  tn an adverse  way, yet  the  speaker  has  g iven nos ign of any impor tance  to th is  s ide -e f fec t .Goal obs tac leA goal  obs tac le  occurs  when a goal  (or subgoa\[ )one is t ry ing  to ach ieve  ts b locked  This b lockage  canresu l t  m confus ion  for the  hs tener  because  he did notexpect  the  speaker  to give him tasks  that  could not beach ieved.
Often.
though,  it po in ts  out  for the  hs tenerthat  some mlscommunicat ion  (such  as mls re ference)  hasoccur red .Goal redundancyGoal redundancy  occurs  when the  requested  goal(or subgoa l )  is a l ready  sat is f ied .
In some sense ,  xt xs aspec ia l  k lnd  of goal  obs tac le  where  the  goal  to beful f i l led is b locked  because  it is a l ready  sat i s f ied .
It isa s imple goal  obs tac le  because  nothmg has  to be doneto get  a round it.
However, it can  lead  to confus ion  on210the  par t  of l i s teners  because  they  may suspect  theymisunders tood  what  the  speaker  has  requested  s incethey  wou ldn ' t  expect  a reasonab le  speaker  Lo requestthe  per fo rmance  of an  a l ready  completed  ac t ion .
Itp rov ides  a h in t  that  miscommumcat ion  has  occur red .3 Repa i r ing  Reference  Fa i lu res3.
I I n t roduct ionThe previous section dlustrated how task-oriented natural language mteractlons in the realworld can induce contextually poor utterances.
Givenall the possibilities for confusion, when confusions dooccur, they must be resolved If the task is to beper fo rmed.
Th is  sect ion  exp lores  the  prob lem of f i x ingre ference  fa i lu res .Re ference  Ident i f i ca t ion  is a search  process  wherea l i s tener  looks  for  someth ing  in the  wor ld  thatsatisfies a speaker's uttered description.
Acomputatlonal scheme for performing reference hasevolved from work  by other artificial intelligenceresearchers (e.g., see \[14\]).
That tradltlonal approachsucceeds if a referent ~s found, or falls d no referentts found {see Figure 3(a)).
However, a referenceidentlficatlon component  must be more versatile thanthose constructed m the traditional manner.
Theexcerpts provided m the prevlous section show thatthe  t rad i t iona l  approach  is wrong  because  people's rea lbehavlor zs much more elaborate.
In particular.hsteners often find the correct referent even when thespeaker's descrlpt)on does not describe any object Inthe world.
For example, a speaker could descrlbe ablue block as the "turquoise block."
Most listenerswould go ahead and assume that the blue block was theone the speaker meant.A key feature to reference identlficatlon is"negotlatlon."
Negotlatlon in reference ldentlhcatloncomes in two forms.
First.
It can occur between thelistener and the speaker.
The listener can step back,expand greatly on the speaker's descrlptlon of aplausible referent, and ask for conhrmat lon that hehas indeed found the correct referent.
For example, ahstener could mltlate negotiation wlth 'Tin confused.Are you talking about the thlng that is klnd of flaredat the top?
Couple inches long.
It's kind of blue."Second.
negotiation can be wlth oneself.
Thls type ofnegotiation, called self-negotlatlon.
Ls the one that weare most concerned wlth in thls research.
The listenerconslders aspects of the speaker's descrzptlon, thecontext of the commumcat lon ,  and the listener's ownabdltles.
He then apphes that dehberatlon to determinewhether one referent candldate :s better than anotheror.
if no candidate Is found, what are the most likelyplaces for error or confuslon.
Such negotlatlon canresult in the listener testing whether or not apartlcular referent works.
For example, linguisticdescrlptlons can influence a listener's perception ofthe world.
The listener must ask himself whether hecan percelve one of the oblects in the world the waythe speaker described it.
in some cases, the listener'sperceptlon may overrule the descrlptlon because thelistener can't percelve ~t the way the speakerdescribed it.To repa i r  the  t rad i t iona l  approach  we havedeveloped an a lgor i thm that  captures  for  cer ta in  casesthe  l i s tener ' s  abd i ty  to negot ia te  w i th  h imse l f  for  are fe rent  It can  look  for  a re fe rent  and .
If It doesn ' tf ind  one,  i t  can  t ry  to f ind  poss ib le  re fe rent  cand idatesthat  might  work ,  and  then  loosen  the  speaker ' sdescr ip t ion  us ing  knowledge  about  the  speaker ,  theconversat ion ,  and  the  l i s tener  h imse l f .
Thus.
there ference  process  becomes  mul t i - s tep  and  resumableThis  computat iona l  model ,  wh ich  I ca l l  "FWIM" for  "F indWhat  I Mean" ,  is  more  fa i th fu l  to  the  data  than  thet rad i t iona l  mode l  ( see  F igure  3(b)).Current  I_ ~ RefePence ~u....=Component~mi~=tCurrentReference -~ ~,,=?..=Component~ ~J~milureRe laxat ion  1Component T?.-,,- u(a) Traditional (b) FWIMF igure  3: Approaches to reference \ ]dentd lcat lonOne means  of mak ing  sense  of an  approx lmatedescr ip t ion  is to de le te  or  rep lace  por t lons  of it thatdon ' t  match  ob jec ts  In the  heater ' s  wor ld .
\[n ourp rogram we are  us lng  " re laxat ion"  techn iques  tocapture  th i s  behav ior .
Our re fe rence  ident lhcat lonmodu le  t reats  descr ip t ions  as approx imate  It re laxesa descr ip t ion  in o rder  to f ind  a re ferent  when theh tera l  content  of the  descr ip t ion  fa l l s  to p rov ide  theneeded In fo rmat ion .
Re laxat ion .
however ,  is notper fo rmed b l ind ly  on the  descr ip t ion  We t ry  to modela person 's  behav ior  by  drawlng  on sources  ofknowledge  used  by  peop le .
We have  deve loped  acomputat iona l  model  that  can  re lax  aspects  of adescr lp t lon  us ing  many of these  sources  of knowledge .Re laxat ion  then  becomes  a form of commumcat lonrepa i r  \[4\] that  hearers  can  use.3.2 The re laxat ion  componentWhen a descr ip t ion  fa i l s  to denote  a re ferent  Inthe  rea l  wor ld  proper ly ,  It Is poss ib le  to repa i r  tt by are laxat lon  process  that  ignores  or  mod i f ies  par ts  of thedescr lp t lon .
S ince  a descr ip t ion  can  spec l fy  manyfeatures  of an  ob jec t ,  the  order  In wh ich  par ts  of Ita re  re laxed  Is c ruc ia l  (i.e.. re lax ing  Ln d i f fe rent  o rderscou ld  y ie ld  matches  to d i f fe rent  ob jec ts )  There  aresevera l  k inds  of re laxat ion  poss ib le  One can  ignore  aconst i tuent ,  rep lace  It w i th  someth ing  c lose ,  rep lace  itw i th  a re la ted  va lue ,  or  change focus  (i.e.. cons ider  ad i f fe rent  g roup  of ob jec ts . )
.
Th is  sec t ion  descr lbes  theovera l l  re laxat lon  component  that  d raws  on knowledgesources  about  descr ip t ions  and  the  rea l  wor ld  as i tt r ies  to re lax  an  er ror fu l  descr ip t ion  to one  for  wh icha re ferent  can  be sdent l f ied .3.2.1 F ind  a re ferent  us ing  a re ference  mechamsmIdent i fy ing  the  re ferent  of a descr ip t ion  requ i resf ind ing  an  e lement  in the  wor ld  that  cor responds  to thespeaker ' s  descr ip t ion  (where  every  feature  spec i f ied  inthe  descr ip t ion  is p resent  In the  e lement  in the  wor ldbut  not  necessar i l y  v i ce  versa) .
The in i t ia l  task  of ourre fe rence  mechan ism Is to determine  whether  or not asearch  of the  ( taxonomic )  knowledge base  that  we useto model the  world Is necessary .
For example,  there ference  component  shou ld  not  bother  search ing  -un less  spec i f i ca l ly  requested  to do so - for a re fe rentfor indef in i te  noun phrases  (which usua l ly  descr ibe  newor  hypothet i ca l  ob jec ts )  or ext remely  vaguedescr ip t ions  (which do not  c lear ly  descr ibe  an ob lectbecause  they are  composed of imprec ise  featurevalues).
A number  of aspects of discourse pragmattcscan be used in that determination (eg., the use of adelctlc In a definite noun  phrase, such as "thls X" or"the last X", hints that the object was either mentionedprev ious ly  or that  it p robab ly  was evoked by someprev ious  re ference ,  and  that  it is searchab le )  but  wewill not  examine them here .The knowledge base contains linguisticdescriptions and a descrlptton of the listener's vlsualscene itself.
In our Implementation and algorithms, weassume It is represented In KL -One \[3\], a system fordescribing taxonomic knowledge.
KL -One is composedof CONCEPTs, ROLEs on concepts, end links betweenthem.
A CONCEPT Is like a set.
representing thoseelements described by it.
A SUPERC link ( '==>") isused between concepts to show set Inclusion.
Forexample, consider Figure 3.
The SuperC from Concept Bto Concept A is like stating BCA for two sets A andB An INDIVIDUAL CONCEPT ts used to guarantee that thesubset speclhed by a concept Is un ique  The \[ndlvldualConcept D shown m the figure Is dehned to be aunique member  of the subset specified by ConceptC ROLEs on concepts are like normal attributes andslot hllers m other  knowledge representationlanguages.
They define a functlonal relatlonshlpbetween the concept and other conceptsConceptC IndividualConceptFigure 4: A KL -One TaxonomyAssuming that  a search  of the  knowledge base Iscons idered  necessary ,  then  a re ference  searchmechanism ts revoked.
The search  mechanism uses  theKL-One C lass ther  \[16\] to search  the knowledge basetaxonomy.
Thls search  Is const ra ined  by a focusmechan lsm based on the one deve loped  by Grosz \[14\].The Classaf ler 's  purpose  Is to d i scover  all approprmte~ubsumpt lon  re la t ionsh ips  between a newly formeddescr lp t ton  and all  o ther  descriptions In a gwentaxonomy.
With respect to reference, th is  means thatall possible (descriptions of) referents of thedescrlptlon will be subsumed by tt after It has beenclassLhed rote the knowledge base taxonomy.
If morethan one candidate referent Is below (when adescrlptlon A Is subsumed by B. we say A ts "below" B)the classified description, then, unless a quantifier inthe description specified more than one element, thespeaker's description is ambiguous.
If exactly onedescr~ptlon Is below it, then the intended referent isassumed to have been  found.
Final ly,  if no re ferent  isfound below the  c lass i f ied  descrxpt ion ,  the  re laxat ioncomponent  is invoked.
We will on ly  cons ider  the  lastcase  in the  res t  of the  paper .3.2.2 Col lect  votes  fo r  o r  aga ins t  re lax ing  thedescr ip t ionIt is necessary  to determine  whether  or  not thelack  of a re fe rent  for  a descr ip t ion  has  to do with thedescr ip t ion  i t se l f  (i.e.. re fe rence  fa i lu re)  or outs idefo rces  that  a re  caus ing  re ference  confus ion .
Forexample,  the  prob lem may be with the  flow of theconversat ion  and the  speaker ' s  and hs tenersperspect ives  on it; i t  may be due to mcor recta t tachment  of a modif ier;  i t  may be due to the  ac t ionrequested ;  and  so on.
P ragmat ic  ru les  are  Invoked todec ide  whether  or not  the  descrxpt lon  shou ld  bere laxed .
These ru les  will not  be d i scussed  here  so wewill assume that  the  problem l ies in the  speakersdescr ip t ion .3.2.3 Per form the  re laxat ion  of the  descr ip t ionIf re laxat ion  Is demanded,  then  the system must(1) f ind potent ia l  re fe rent  cand idates ,  (2l determinewhich features  in the  speaker ' s  descr ip t ion  to re laxand in what  order ,  and use those  ordered  features  too rder  the potent ia l  cand idates  with respect  to thepre fer red  order ing  of features ,  and (3~ determine  theproper  re laxat ion  techn iques  to use and app ly  them tothe  descr ip t ion .F ind potent ia l  re fe rent  cand idatesBefore re laxat ion  can take  p lace,  potent ia lcand idates  for re fe rents  (which denote  e lements  in thel i s tener ' s  v i sua l  scene) must f i rs t  be found Thesecand idates  a re  d i scovered  by per fo rming  a "walk" tnthe  knowledge base  taxonomy in the genera l  v l c lmty  ofthe  speakers  c lass i f ied  descr ip t ion .
A KL-One par t ia lmarcher  is used  to determme how c lose the candidatedescr ip t ions  found dur ing  the  walk a re  to the speakersdescr ip t ion ,  The par t ia l  metcher  generates  a numer ica lscore  to represent  how well the descr lp t lons  match(a f ter  f i rs t  generat ing  scores  at the  feature  level tohelp determme how the features  a re  to be a l igned endhow well they  match).
This score  is based  onin fo rmat ion  about  KL-One and does not  take  mtoaccount  any in fo rmat ion  about  the  task  domain.
Theorder ing  of features  and cand idates  for re laxat iondescr ibed  below takes  Into account  the  task  domain.The set  of bes t  descr ip t ions  re turned  by the  marcher(as determined  by some cutof f  score)  a re  se lec ted  asre ferent  cand idates .Order the  features  and cand idates  for  re laxat ionAt th is  peat  the  re ference  system inspects  thespeaker ' s  descr ip t ion  and the cand idates ,  dec ides  wtltchfeatures  to re lax  and in what order .
5 and generates  amaster  o rder ing  of features  for re laxat ion .
Once thefeature  o rder  Is c reated ,  the  re ference  system uses50f course, om=a one ~r t i cu la r  candidate is selected.then deciding which features to relax is re la t ive ly  t r (v ia l- one simply c(mporee feature by feature between thecandidate descr ipt ion (the target)  and the speaker'sdescr ipt ion ( the ~t tern)  and notes any discrepancies.212that  o rder ing  to determine  the order  in which to t ryrelaxing the candidates.We draw pr;martly on sources of linguisticknowledge, pragmatic knowledge, discourse knowledge,domam knowledge, perceptual knowledge, hierarchicalknowledge, and trial and error knowledge durmg thisrepair process.
A detailed treatment of all of them canbe found In \[12, 27, 13\].
These knowledge sources areconsulted to determine the feature ordering forrelaxation.
We represent information from eachknowledge source as a set of relaxation rules.
Theserules are written in a PROLOG-I ike language.
Figure 5illustrates one such  linguistic knowledge relaxationrule.
This rule is motivated by the observation in theexcerpts that speakers typ~cally add more importantinformatlon at the end of a descrlpt~on (where they areseparated from the ma~n part of the descrlpt~on andthus provided more emphasis).
Since the syntacticconstituents often at the end are relatlve clauses orpredicate complements, we created this more specdicrelaxatlon rule.
However.
a more general and moreapplicable rule is that information presented at theend of a descrlptlon is usually more promment .Re lox  the  features  in  the  speaker ' s  descr ip t ion  in  theorder :  od jec t ives ,  then  I : repoe i t iono!
phroeee ,  ondf ino l ly  re lc t ive  ?
louses  ond  pred icc te  complements .E.g.
.Rel ox-Feot ure-Be f o re(v  1 .v2)<- ObjectOeecr(d) ,Feat ureOeec r i p tor (v !  )
,FectureOescr iptor(v2),FecturelnOeecr i pt ion(v f  .d) .Feat urel  nOesc r i pt i on(v2 .d ) .5"quo I (syntoc t i c - f  orm(v t .d) ,  "ADJ").
;'quo I (synt a?t i c - f  orm(v2.d) ,  "REL-CLS")Figure 5: A sample relaxation ruleEach knowledge source produces ~ts own partialo rdermg of features.
The partial o rdermgs are thenzntegrated to form a d~rected graph.
For example.perceptual knowledge may say to relax color However.~f the color value was asserted ~n a relative clause.linguistic knowledge would rank color lower.
~.e..p lacmg ~t later ~n the list of things to relax.Smce different knowledge sources generally havedi f ferent  par t ia l  o rder lngs  of features ,  thesed i f fe rences  can lead to a conf l ic t  over which featuresto relax.
It Is the job of the  best  cand idate  a lgor i thmto resolve the d~sagreements among knowledge sources.It's goal ts to order the referent candidates, Ci, sothat relaxation ~s attempted on the best candzdatesfirst Those candidates are the ones that conform bestto a proposed feature ordering.
To start, the algorithmexammes pairs of candidates and the feature order~ngsfrom each knowledge source.
For each candidate C i.the algorithm scores the effect of relaxlng thespeaker's orlglnal descrlpt~on to C i. using the featureordering from one knowledge source.
The scorereflects the goal of mln~mlz:ng the number  of featuresrelaxed whale try3ng to relax the features that are"earhest" sn the feature ordermg.
It repeats ~tsscoring of C i for each knowledge source, and sums upits scores to form Ci's total score.
The Ci's are thenordered by that score.Figure 6 provides a graphic description of th~sprocess.
A set of objects ~n the real world areselected by the partial marcher as potent~a| candidatesfor the re ferent .
These cand idates  a re  shown acrossthe top of the f igure.
The l ines  on the  r ight  s ide ofeach box correspond to the set of features thatdescribe that object.
The speaker's descrlpt~on tsrepresented in the center of the figure.
The set ofspec i f ied  features  and the i r  ass igned  feature  va lue(e.g., the  pa i r  Co lo r -Maroon)  a re  also shown there .
Aset  of par t ia l  o rder ings  a re  generated  that  suggestwhich features  in the  speaker ' s  descr ip t ion  shou ld  bere laxed  f i r s t  - one order ing  for each  knowledge source(shown as "l~nguist~c," "Perceptual."
and "H~erarchlcaI"in the figure).
These are put together to form adirected graph that represents the possible, reasonableways to relax the features specified tn the speakersdescription.
Finally.
the referent candidates arereordered using the information expressed ~n thespeaker's description and in the directed graph offeatures .OQ/ecrl?
*a pm-c~a l  FI -~ ?o1?
*- f~ t l  oe fz P~?
- )  N|eeet.
?tnlceJ f3 - )  F~I : I~  f2 F3 fZ oe f~ oe F,*F4 - )  Size f3 faf45O~Nct4d Ct~ of/~rtu.s I~  ,*~,~r~;~Figure 8: Reordering referent candldatesOnce a set of ordered, potential candldates areselected, the relaxation mechanlsm begms step 3 ofrelaxatlon; it trles to find proper relaxation methods torelax the features that have lust been ordered ~successtn flndlng such methods "justifies" relaxing thedescrlptlon).
It stops at the first candidate which zsreasonable.Determine which re laxat ion  methods  to app lyRelaxation can take place wlth many aspects of aspeaker's descrlptlon: wlth complex relatlons specifiedIn the descrlptlon, wlth indlvldual features of areferent specified by the descrlptlon, and with thefocus of attention in the real world where one attemptsto find a match.
Complex relatlons speclfted in aspeaker's descrlptlon include spatlal relations (e.g.."the outlet near  the top of the tube">, comparatives(e.g.
"the larger tube") and superlatlves (e.g., "thelongest tube").
These can be relaxed.
The slmplerfeatures of an object (such as slze or color) that arespeclfied in the speaker's descrlptton are also open torelaxation.Often the objects in focus In the real worldimplicitly cause other objects to be In focus \[14, 2{\]\].The subparts of an object ~n focus, for example, arereasonab le  cand idates  for the  re ferent  of a fazhngdescr ip t ion  and shou ld  be checked .
At o ther  t imes, thespeaker  might a t t r ibute  features  of a subpar t  of an213object to the whole object (e.g., describing a plungerthat Is composed of a red handle, a metal rod, a bluecap, and a green cup as "the green plunger").
Inthese cases, the relaxation mechan ism utilizes thepart-whole relation in object descriptions to suggest away  to relax the speaker's description.Relaxation of a description has a few globalstrategies that can be followed for each part of thedescription: (I) drop the errorful feature value fromthe description altogether, (2) weaken or tighten thefeature value but keep its new value close to thespecified one, or (S) try some other feature value.These  s t ra teg ies  a re  rea l i zed  through a set  ofp rocedures  (o r  reLa=, , t ion  methods)  that  a re  organ izedhierarchically.
Each procedure is an expert at relaxingits particular type of feature.
For example, aGenerat e-  Similar- Feature-Values procedure iscomposed of procedures llke Generate-S imi lar -Shape-Values, Generate-Simi lar-Color-Values and Generate-Similar-Size-Values.
Each of those procedures arespecialists that attempt to first relax the feature valueto one "near" the current one (e.g., one would preferto first relax the color "red" to "pink" before relaxingit to "blue") and then.
d that fails, to try relaxing itto any of the other possible values.
If those fail.
thefeature would simply be ignored.3.3 An example  on  hand l ing  a mis re ferenceThis section describes how a referentidentification system can handle a mlsreference usingthe scheme outlined in the previous section.
For thepurposes of thls example, assume that the water pumpobjects currently in focus include the CAP.
theMAINTUBE.
the AIRCHAMBER and the STAND (see Figurel{a) for a picture of these parts) Assume also thatthe speaker tries to describe two of the objects.".
two devices that are clear piastlc One of them hastwo openings on the outside with threads on the end,and its about five inches long.
The other one tsarounded piece with a turquoise base on it.
Both aretubular.
The rounded piece fits loosely over...".
Thereference system can find a unique referent for thefirst obJect but not for the second.
The relaxationalgorithm will be shown below to reduce the set ofreferent candidates for the second description down totwo.
It.
then.
requires the system/listener to try outthose candidates to determine if one.
or both, fitsloosely.
The protocols exhibit a similar result when thelistener uses "fits loosely" to get the correct referent(eg.. Excerpt 6 exemplifies where the "fit" can confirmthat  the  proper  re ferent  was  found) .Figure 7 provides a simplified and hnearlzed vlewof the actual KL -One representatlon of the  speaker'sdescriptions after they have been parsed andsemantically interpreted.
A representation of each ofthe water pump objects that are currently underconsideration is presented in Figure 8 Each provides aphysical description of the object - in terms of itsdimensions, the basic 3 -D  shapes composing it, and itsphysical features - and a basic functional descriptionof the obJect.
The first entry in each representationtn Figure 8 {that entry is shown in uppercase) definesthe basic kind of entity being described {e.g.. "TUBE"means that the object being described is some kind oftube)  The words  in mixed  case  re fer  to  the  names  offeatures  and  the  words  in  uppercase  re fer  to  poss ib lef i l l e rs  of those  features  f rom th ings  in the  water  pumpwor ld .
The  "Subpar t "  feature  prov ides  a p lace  fo r  anembedded descr ip t ion  of  an  ob jec t  that  is  a subpar t  ofa parent  ob jec t .
Such  subpar ts  can  be  re fer red  to  onthe i r  own or  as  par t  of  the  parent  ob jec t .
The"Or ientat ion"  feature ,  used  in  the  representat ions  inF igure  8. p rov ides  a ro ta t ion  and  t rans la t ion  of theob jec t  f rom some s tandard  or ientat ion  to  the  ob lec tscurrent orientation in 3 -D  space.
The standardorientation provides a way  to define relative positionssuch as "top," "bottom," or "slde.
"Dlaer l :I DCVIC~ IT rensperency  C~ARI*Composition PL.ASTIC)iSuSpert I (~PL~Ni l I iISUDpiTI 10111) )ISu l le i r t  {T~ADS I l i i - Po l i t l on  \ [NDI t )ID lm4,n i lon l  I~n l th  S .O I Ii lA i lo l i?i l -~h l l l  T$111 J l i l l l( F IT - INTO IOuter  (D \ [V IC /  (T r lnsperencv  C'~TARI;Compos , t  ,on  PLASTIC)Shape R~O )( A i l@lo|  I ?
l i  -.~hllpe 'r~.~ljt~R )(Subp i r l  ~SA.
~?
q( 'o lo r  T'~T~QtrOl.~T);Ib)?
Inner  )i r , tCond| t~on LOOSEI )F igure  7: The  speaker ' s  descr ip t ionsThe  f i r s t  s tep  in  the  re ference  process  ts theactua l  search  fo r  a re ferent  in the  knowiedge baseThe  re ference  ident i f i ca t ion  process  is i nc rementa l  innature ,  l .e, ,  the  l i s tener  c~n beg in  the  search  processbe fore  he  hears  the  complete  descr ip t ion  Th is  wasobserved  throughout  the  v ideotape  excerpts  and  thea lgor i thm presented  here  is ac tua l ly  des lgned to  beincrementa l .
The  KL -One C lass i f ie r  compares  thefeatures spec i f ied  in the speaker ' s  descr ip t ions  (Descr land  the" "Outer"  feature  of Descr2  in F igure  T) w i th  thefeatures  spec lhed  fo r  each  e lement  in the  EL -Onetaxonomy that  cor responds  to  one  of the  cur rentob jec ts  of i n teres t  in  the  rea l  wor ld .
Not ice  that  somefeatures  are  d i rec t ly  comparab le .
For  example ,  the"Transparency"  feature of Descr l  and  the"Transparency"  feature  of MAINTUBE are  both  equa l  to"CLEAR."
Other  features  requ i re  fu r ther  process ingbefore  they  can  be  compared .
The  OPENING va lue  of"Subpar t "  in Deecr l  is thought  of p r imar i ly  as  a 2 -Dc ross -sect lon  (such  as  a "ho le" ) .
wh i le  two CYLINDERsubpar ts  of MA/NTUBE are  v iewed as  13-D)  cy l indersthat  have  the  "Funct ion"  of  be ing  out le ts ,  i .e.
,  OUTLET-ATTACHMENT-POINTS.
To compare  OPENING andCYLINDER, the  in ference  must  be  made that  both  th ingscan  descr ibe  the  same th ing  (s imi la r  in fe rences  aredeve loped in (18 \ ] ) .
One way  th i s  in fe rence  can  occurts by  recurs lve ly  examin ing  the  subpar ts  of MA/NTUBEwlth  the  par t ia l  matcher  unt i l  the  cy l inders  a reexamined at  the  2 -D  leve l .
At that  leve l ,  an  end  of thecy l inder  wil l  be  de f ined  as  an  OPENING With thatexaminat ion ,  the  MAINTUBE can  be  seen  as  descr ibedby  Deeer  I.Descr2  presents  d i f fe rent  prob lems.
Descr2  re fersto  an  ob Ject  that  is supposed to  have  a subpar t  that  isTURQUOISE.
The  C lass i f ie r  determines  that  Descr2  cou ldnot  descr ibe  e i ther  the  CAP or  3TAND because  both  areBLUE.
It a l so  cou ld  not  descr ibe  the  MAINTUBE 6 or  .aIRCHAMBER s ince  each  has  subpar ts  that  a re  e i therVIOLET or  BLUE.
The  C lass i f ie r  p laces  Descr2  as  best  itcan  in the  taxonomy,  showing  no  connect ions  between6Sin?e Deacr~ re fers  to ~AJNTUSE.
MAINTUBE could bedropped as ?
potent ia l  re fe rent  cand idate  fo r  Descr2.
Wew i l l .
hommver, leave i t  ae a potent ia l  cand idate  to maketh i s  eso~le more coelples.214(C~mpol, t ion  PI,~I~T IC IC&P ( T ronzp i ren??
~l i~?.~ )I~* in l ion l  i l , , l l l l l t l  .~ l  ID i l l#r  .S i ti ( l l te~i i t~on l lo te l~o~l  iO.O 0 .0  tO.O~ iI l l i n i l i t~on ~(l*O 0 ,0  O .O l i ) lI TU~ilA I I~ors*or  v lo l rT*{C==pOI I t l~  PLA~'r|C)(Transparency CI.\[ASl(Ot l l l l~ l lO~l  I~tn l th  4 .
|~1)(SuPport ICYLIND~R IO: l l~nSlOnS #Len l t~ .~51 (O i l  d I t r ie r  I .
{ZS) )tOr lent@t lO8 *Rot i l l o8  10.0 0 .0  0 .0)1L lS  iT rens l l t ton  *0 .0  0 .0  3 .
?5) i )(F~n?t lon  OL~IrT-aTTAC)~NT-~OINT)I}(Subpert ICYLINO?R IO l lmns loss  I Len | th  3 .~ l  ~Olsmeter I .O I )T~&e~o~ (Orsent l t lon  /Rotat ion IO*O 0.0  o .o l i(T rsns le t~o~ (0 .0  0 .0  .25 i l l ) )($ubssrt (CYLINO~S (O l l~ l l~ l  I~@nlth  .~S i  IO l~ l~ter  1*12S i )(Or ientat ion  IRot l t |on  (O.O O.O O*Ol l~ff@l14~ I T r l f l l l i i l o ,  IO.O 0.00*O)) i(FUnct IOB '~AJDE~-A~'ACHId~NT-POINT)))(Subpirt (CY~IN~I\[R (O l=~l lO~l  ( \ [ .en l t f l  .3751 {Ol l lL l~ter .5 ) )(Or lent l t :on  *Rotat ion  (O.O O.O 90o0})Ot~lle#~ (T r@ns ie t lon  (O.O ,~ 3 .00) ) )(F~tnct lon O~'T~T-AlrTAC~4~,NT-POINY})i(Subpsrt (CYLiNOER (O l lMn l lOn l  i~en l th  ,375)  IO l l l /wter  *S) )(Or ientat ion  IRots t=on (O.O O.O 90.O))~At l le l2  IT rsn l io t lon  (O.O ,S .82~)){ runct lo~ OIJ~frT*ATTACiSlS~NT-POINTI))i~IRCH~R(C~lTA I l l t l l  (D imens ,on |  ?t.I\[~GTH 2 .75) )(Ccm@o=ttion PLASTICI(SuPport  t H~.MISPH~ *Co lor  VIOt.I~?
)(T ransparency  CLI~XRIC~4ml~@f lO l l l l~f l l lO f l l  IO l lme ler  l .O l lTo s (O@leht l?
lon  ISo la t ion  ?0.0 0 .00 .O l )I~r in l i i t l o~ 10.0 0 .0  2 .~ l l ) ) )(Subpirt (CY~INOER lCo lor  VIOLET}(Trlnsperenov CLEAR!Chamoe~ (D~menl lons  ?Len&th 1.01 (O~wter  2 .25}1Bo@y (Or ientat ion  (Sot~t lO~ iO.O 0 .0  0 .01)(~r ln l iOt lOn  I0 .0  0 .0  .375)* ) ) )(Sub~ert {C3"LINOER (Co lor  SLU~i(Trlnspereney OPaQUe)(O l lens lon l  (Lcn l th  .3Y51 (nt~ds~ler 1 .25( )tOr len?
l l l o ,  (Rotat ion  IO*O O.O 0 .0 ) )Chcm~eP (T rans la t ion  (O*O 0,0 0.0) ) )Bore=s= ( runct*an  CAP OUTLET-A~&CHM~J~-~)(NTI{~Dp~rt  ;CYLINDER 4Color  8t.UE)IO l~n l lOn l  i Lensth -*3TS)(Or lentat loa{Rogation (O*O O.O 0.0))(T rans la t ion  ~O.O o,0 0 .0 ) ) )(F~tc t lonOU'rtrT.al"~'~C)Od~lT-I=~lNT))))){Sub,art ?CY~{h'O/R (Co lor  VIOLET)(Teon l~ loen?~ CLE,/I~IC~a~oft  (D imens ions  (Len?
(h  .51 lO lmaet~r  .37~l lOt l~\[r f  (Or ientat ion  (Rot i t *on  ,0 .0  0 .0  ~0.0) )(Terns ( i L ion  ( .625 .825 .625}))(~ct lon  OUTL~T-~TTAC;~q~NT-P~)INT)lt):T~\ [  ,D,mens,ons ?LenCtn 2 .7~) (4Compos,tton PLASTIC)(5uupsrt 1CYLINDER fCo lor  BLUE1{Trsn|parehcy CLEARtr0p (D*mens;ons ?LenGth 2 .25)  40j~dlte(er .3TS l )(o r tenta?
ion  tRoL i t *oh  ?0.0 0 .0  0 .0 ) )~TA;ND (T ren l tscson  (.$ O,0 .375})~(Funct ,on  (X~L?T-&TTAC~.NT-POINT I ) )t lub=*r t  ;C~*LINO?R ?CoIor BLUI~)(T r lnspereneF  CL?AR)8@s@ I~ l~ef l s lon l  I~.~rneth .3~5) (Ollulet@@ l .
OI)IOe lcntet?of l  iRotml lon  {0 .0  0 .0  0 .0 ) )~Teens i i l i o f l  fO*O 0 .0  0 .0 ) ) )I F~not .on  OUTLLT-*rI"AC)O4E~T-POINTt))IFigure 8: The objects in focusit and any of the objects currently in focus.
At thispoint,  a probable  misre ference is noted.
The re ferencemechan ism now t r ies  to f ind potent ia l  re ferentcandidates, using the taxonomy exploration routinedescribed in Section 3.2.3. by examining the elementsclosest to Descr2 In the taxonomy and using the partialmatcher to score how close each element is to Descr2.
7The matcher determines MA/NTUBE.
STAND, and AIR7The par t ia l  mctcher  scores  are  numer ica l  scores  computedf rom 0 set  of  ro le  scores  that  ind icate  how we l l  eachfeature  of the two descr ip t ions  match  Thosa featurescores  are  represented  OS a sca le :  H IGH\ [ST  |+| ,  {> <( ,{-( .
{?l,  {-( COWEST.CHAMBER as reasonable candidatescompar ing their features to Descr2 .Scor ing  Descr2  to MAINTUBE.by a l ign ing  ando a TUBE is a kind of DEVICE: (>)o the Transparency of each is CLEAR; (-'{o the Composltlon of each Is pLASTIC.
(~-)o a TUBE Implies Analoglcal-Shape TUBULAR.which implies Shape CYLINDRICAL, which ~s ak ind  of Shape ROUND: (>)o the recurslve partlal matching of subparts: ABASE Is viewed as a kind of BOTTOM.Therefore, BASE In Descr2 could match to thesubpart In MA/NTUBE that has a Translationof  (0 .0  0 ,0  0 .0 )  - I .e.
,  Threads of MAINTUBE.However, they mismatch since colorTURQUOISE  In Descr ~- differs from color VIOLETof MAINTUBE.
( - )Scor ing  Descr2  to STAND:o a TUBE Is a k ind of DEVICE, (>)o the  Transparency  of each  is CLEAR.
( - ,o the Composltlon of each is PLASTIC.
(-)o a TUBE *mphes Analoglcal-Shape TUBULAR.whlch imphes Shape CYLINDRICAL.
which Ls akind of Shape ROUND; (>)o the recurswe partial matching of zubparts.BASE in Descr2 could match to the subpart (nSTAND that has a Translation of 10.0 00  0.0)- I .e..  Base  of STAND.
However.
theymismatch since color  TURQUOISE m Descr2di f fers from color BLUE of STAND ( - )Scoring Descr2  to AIR CHAMBER:o a CONTAINER Is  a k ind  of  DEVICE.
(>)o the  Transparency  of Descr2 .
CLEAR.
matchesthe  Transparency  of ChamberTop.ChamberOutlet and ChamberBody of AIRCHAMBER but mismatches the Transparencyof ChamberBottom of AIR CHAMBER.There fore .
the  par t ia l  match  is uncer ta in .
(?
)o the  Compos l t lon  of each  is PLASTIC, (+)o the  subpar ts  of AIR CHAMBER have ShapeHEMISPHERICAL and CYLINDRICAL wh ich  areeach  a k lnd  of Shape ROUND: {>)o the recurstve partial matching of subparts.BASE m Desor2 could match to the subpart inAIR CHAMBER that has a translation of (0.00.0 0 .0 )  - i .e., ChamberBot tom o( .4IRCHAMBER.
However.
they mismatch sincecolor  TURQUOISE m Deacr2 di f fers from colorBLUE of AIR  CHAMBER {- )The above analysls using the partial matcherprovldes no clear winner smce the differences are soclose causing the scores generated for the candldatesto be almost exactly the same (i.e.. the only differencewas In the score for Transparency).
All candidates.hence, will be retained for now.215At this point, the knowledge sources and theirassociated rules that were ment loned earlier apply.These rules attempt to order the feature values m thespeaker's description for relaxation.
First.
we'll orderthe features m DescrZ using lingulstlc knowledge.Linguistic analysls of Deser2, "... are clear plastlc ... arounded pace  wlth a turquoise base ...
Both aretubular ... fits loosely over .... " tells us that thefeatures were specified using the following modifiers.o Adlect~ve: (Shape ROUND)o Prepositional Phrase: (Subpart (BASE (ColorTURQUOISE)))o Predicate Complement: (Transparency CLEAR),IComposltion PLASTIC), (Analoglcal-ShapeTUBULAR), (Fit LOOSE)Observations from the protocols (as described by theru les  deve loped  In \[13\]) has  shown that  people  tend  tore lax  f i rs t  features  spec i f ied  as ad lec t lves ,  then  asprepos l t lona l  phrases  and f ina l ly  as re la t ive  c lauses  orp red icate  complements .
Thls suggests  re laxat ion  ofDescr2  in the  order :\ ]Shape} < |Co lo r .Subpor t |< |T ronsporency .COmpOSi  t ;on .Ana log ica l -ShaDe ,F; t |The set of features on the left side of a "<" symbol isrelaxed before the set on the rlght side The orderthat the features inside the braces. "
)~",  are relaxedis left unspecified {i.e., any order of relaxation Isalrlght) Perceptual Information about the domain alsoprovldes suggestlons.
Whenever  a feature has featurevalues that are close, then one should be prepared torelax any of them to any of the others (we call thlsthe "clustered feature value rule") \[n thls example.smce the colors are all very close - BLUE.
TURQUOISE,and VIOLET - then Color may be a reasonable thing torelax.
Hxerarchlcal Information about how closelyrelated one feature value Is to another can also beused to determine what to relax.
The Shape values area good example.
A CYLINDRICAL shape Is also a CONICALshape, which Is also a 3 -D  ROUND shape.
Hence.
It Isvery reasonable to match ROUNDED to CYLINDRICAL.
Allof these suggestions can be put together to form theorder:~Sho~e.Co~or| < ~Su~l)art~< |Trangpore f l cy  ,Compos i t i on.Ana|  og i ca I --Shope.
F i I: | .The re ferent  cand ldates  MAINTUBE.
STAND, and.41R CHAMBER can be examined  and poss ib ly  o rdered  forrelaxation using the above feature ordering For thisexample, the relaxation of Descr2 to any of thecandidates requires relaxing their SHAPE and COLORfeatures.
Since they each require re iaxmg the samefeatures, the candidates can not be ordered w, threspect to each other (i.e., none of the possible featureorders is better for relaxing the candidates).
Hence.no one candidate stands out as the most likelyreferent.While no orderlng of the candidates was posslble.the order generated to relax the features In thespeaker's description can be used to guide therelaxation, of each candldate.
The relaxation methodsmentioned at the end of the last section come Into usehere.
Generate -S imdar -Shape-Va lues  can determinethat  HEMISPHERICAL and CYLINDRICAL shapes  of the AIRCHAMBER are close to the 3D-ROUND shape..
This holdsequa l ly  t rue  for the cyhndr lca l  shapes  of theMAINTUBE and the  STAND.
Generate -S imi la r -Co lo r -Values next  t rms  re lax ing  the Color TURQUOISE.
Itdetermmes the  colors BLUE and GREEN as the bestalternates.
Here only two clear winners exist - theAIR CHAMBER and the STAND - while the MAINTUBE isdropped as a candidate smce it Is reasonable to relaxTURQUOISE  to BLUE or to GREEN but not to VIOLETSubpart, Transparency, Analoglcal- Shape, andComposition provide no further help {though.
the factthat the AIR CHAMBER has both CLEAR and OPAQUEsubparts mght  put it slightly lower than the ST,hVDwhose subparts are all CLEAR.
Thls difference.however, is not slgndicant.).
Thls leaves trial anderror attempts to try to complete the FIT action.
Theone (if any) that fits - and fits loosely - Is selectedas the referent.
The protocols showed that peopleoften do just that - reducing their set of choices downas best they can and then taking each of the remalnmgchmces  and trying out the requested action on them4 Conc lus ionOur goal m thls work Is to budd robust naturallanguage understanding systems, a l lowmg them todetect and avold mlscommunlcatlon.
The goal is not tomake a perfect listener but a more tolerant one thatcould avold many mistakes, though still wrong onoccasion.
In Section 2, we mtroduced a taxonomy ofmlscommunlcat lon problems that occur tn expert -apprentice dialogues.
We showed that referencemistakes are one kind of obstacle to robustcommunication.
To tackle reference problems, wedescrlbed how to extend the succeed/fad paradigmfollowed by previous natural language researchersWe represented real world objects hlerarchlcallvin a knowledge base using a representation language,KL-One.
that follows in the tradition of semantlcnetworks and frames.
In such a representatlonframework, the reference identification task looks for are fe rent  by compar ing  the representat ion  of thespeakers  Input to elements in the knowledge base byusing a matching procedure.
Failure to find a referentin previous reference identlhcatlon systems resulted Inthe unsuccessful termination of the reference task Weclaim that people behave better than this and exphcltlyillustrated such cases in an expert-apprentlce domainabout toy water pumps.We deve loped  a theory  of re laxat ion  forrecovering from reference failures that provides amuch better model for human performance.
Whenpeople are asked to identify objects, they go about itm a certain way.
flnd candidates, adjust as necessary,re-try, and, if necessary, glve up and ask for help.
Weclaim that relaxation is an Integral part of this processand that the particular parameters of relaxation differfrom task to task and person to person.
Our workmodels the relaxation process and provldes acomputatlonal model for experimenting w~th thedifferent parameters.
The theory incorporates thesame language and physical knowledge that people usem performing reference identification to guide therelaxation process.
Thls knowledge Is represented as aset of rules and as data m a hierarchical knowledgebase.
Ru le-based relaxation provided a methodical wayto use knowledge about language and the world to finda referent.
The hlererchxcal representation made Itposslble to tackle issues of Impreclslon and over-specification In a speakers  description.
It allows oneto check the position of a description in the hierarchyand to use that position to fudge Imprecision andover -spec l f i ca t ion  and to suggest  poss ib le  repa i rs  tothe  descr ip t lon .216Interest ingly.
one would expect  that  "c losest"match would suff ice to solve the problem of f inding areferent .
We showed, however,  that  it doesn ' t  usual lyprovide you with the cor rect  re ferent .
Closest matchisn't  suff ic ient because  there  are many featuresassoc iated wlth an object and, thus.
determimng whlchof those features  to keep and which to drop Is adifficult problem due to the combinatorlcs and theeffects of context.
The relaxation method describedcircumvents the problem by using the knowledge thatpeople have about language and the physical  world toprune  down the search  space.ACKNOWLEDGEMENTSI want to thank especially Candy Sidner for herinslghtful comments  and suggestions during the courseof thls work.
I'd also like to acknowledge the helpfulcomments  of George Hadden, Diane L~tman, Marc Vilam,Dave Waltz, Bonme Webber and Bill Woods on this paper.Many thanks also to Phil Cohen, Scott Fertig and KathyStarr for providing me wlth thelr water pump dmloguesand for their invaluable observations on them.REFERENCES\ [ I \ ]  Allen.
James F. A Plan-Based Approach to SpeechAct Recognztion.
Ph.D. Th.. University of Toronto.
1979.\[2\] Appelt, Douglas E. Planning AIat~Tal LanguageUtterances to Satisf!/ Multiple Goals.
Ph.D Th.,Stanford Unlverslty, 1981.\[3\] Brachman, Ronald J.
A 3tr~ctura l  Parad igm /orRepresenting Knowledge.
Ph.D.
Th., Harvard Umverslty,1977 Also, Technlcal Report No.
3605.
Bolt Beranekand Newman Inc.\[4\] Brown, John Seely and Kurt VanLehn.
"RepairTheory A Generat ive Theory of Bugs m Procedura lSk111s."
Cognitive Science ~, 4 (1980), 379-426\[5\] Cohen.
Philip R On Kno~vlng What to Sa?l.Planning Speech Acts.
Ph.D.
Th., University of Toronto,1978.\[8\] Cohen.
P.. C Perrau l t  and J. Allen.
BeyondQuestion Answering.
In KnowLedge Representat ion andNatural Language Processing.
W. Lehnart  and M. Ringle,Ed..Lawrence Erlbaum Associates, 1981.\[7\] Cohen.
Phlhp R. The need for ReferentIdentlficatlon as a Planned Actlon.
Proceedings ofIJCAI-81.
Vancouver.
B.C., Canada, August.
1981, pp.31-35.\[8\] Cohen, Phlhp R, Scott Fertlg and Kathy Start.Dependencies of Discourse Structure on the Modahty ofCommunlcatlon.
Telephone vs. Teletype.
Proceedings ofACL, Toronto.
Ont., Canada, June, 1982, pp.
28-35.\[9\] Cohen, Philip R. "The Pragmatlcs of Referring andthe Modahty of Communlcatlon."
ComputationalLinguistics 10, 2 (Apr i l - June 1984).
97-146.\[10\] Gentner.
Dedre.
The Structure of AnalogicalModels In Science.
Bolt Beranek and Newman Inc.. July,1980.\[11\] Goodman.
Bradley A. Mlscommunlcatlon an Task-Oriented Dialogues.
KRNL Group Working Paper, BoltBeraneK and Newman Inc., April 1982.\[12\] Goodman, Bradley A.
Repairing Miscommunlcatlon:Relaxation m Reference.
Proceedings of AAAI-83.Washlngton.
b.C.. August, 1983, pp.
134--138.\[13\] Goodman, Bradley A. Communication andMiscomccr,~n~cation.
Ph.D.
Th., Univers i ty of Illinols.Urbane,  1984.\[14\] Gross,  Barbara  J.
The Representat ion and Use ofFocus in Dialogue Under'standing.
Ph.D.
Th., Univers i tyof Californla, Berkeley.
1977.
Also, Technical Note 151.Stanford  Research  Inst l tute.\[15\] Gross.
Barbara  J.
Focusing and descr ip t ions  innatural language dialogues.
In Elements of DiscourseUnderstanding, Joshi.
Webber and Sags, Ed.,CambrldgeUniversity Press, 1981, pp.
84-ID5.\[16\] Lipkis, Thomas.
A \](L-ONE Classifier.
Proceedingsof the 1981 KL -One Workshop, June, 1982, pp.
128-145.Report No.
4842, Bolt Beranek and Newman Inc. AlsoConsul Note # 5, USC/Information Sciences Institute.October 1981.\[17\] L4tman, Diane J. and James F. Allen.
A PlanRecogmtion Model for Clarlfication Subdialogues.Proceedings of Coling84, Stanford Umverslty, Stanford,CA., July, 1984, pp.
302-311.\[18\] Mark.
William.
Realization.
Proceedings of the1981 \](L-One Workshop, June, 1982, pp.
78-89.
ReportNo.
4842, Bolt Beranek and Newman Inc.\[19\] McKeown, \](athleen R. Recurslon In Text and ItsUse in Language Generation.
Proceedings of AAAI-83.Washington, D.C., August, 1983. pp.
270-273.\[20\] Relchman, Rachel.
"Conversational Coherency.
"Cognitive Science 2.
4 (1978).
283-327.\[21\] Relchman.
Rachel.
Plain Speaking: A Theory andGrammar of 3pontaneo~s Discourse.
Ph.D Th.. HarvardUmverslty, 1981.
Also, Technical Report No.
4861, BoltBeranek and Newman Inc.\[22\] Ringle.
Martin and Bertram Bruce.
ConversationFailure.
In Knowledge Representation and HatlzralLanguage Processing, W. Lehnart and M. RIngle.Ed.,Lawrence Erlbaum Assocmtes, 1981.\[:~3\] Sidner.
C L.. and Israel, D.J.
Recogmzmgantended meamng and speaker's plans.
Proceedings ofthe Internatlone, l Joint Conference In ArtlfictalIntelhgence.
The International Joint Conferences onArtlficai Intelligence.
Vancouver.
B.C.
August.
1981, pp.203-208.\[24\] Sldner, Candace Lee.
To,yards cz ComputationalTheory of Definite AnaphoTa Comprehension i EnglishDiscourse.
Ph.D.
Th., Massachusetts Instltute ofTechnology, 1979.
Also, Report No.
TR-537, MIT AI Lab\[25\] Sidner, C. L.. M. Bates, R. J. Bobrow,R.
J. Brachman, P. R. Cohen, D. J. Israel, J. Schmolze.B.
L. Webber, W. A.
Woods.
Research an KnowledgeRepresentatlon for Natural Language UnderstandingReport No.
4785, Bolt Beranek and Newman Inc..November, 1981.\[26\] Sidner, C. L.. Bates, M.. Bobrow.
R.. Goodman,  B..Haas, A.. Ingrla, R.. Israel, D.. McAllester.
D.. Moser, M..Schmolze, J.. Vilem, M. Research an KnowledgeRepresentation for Natural Language Understanding -Annual Report.
I September 1982 - 31 August 1983.Technical Report 5421.
BBN Laboratories.
Cambradge.MA, 1983.\[27\] Sidner.
C., Goodman.
B.. Haas, A.. Moser.
M..Stallard, D.. Vilem, M. Research m KnowledgeRepresentation for Natural Language Understanding -Annual Report, I September 1983 - 31 August 1984.Technical Report 5894.
BBN Laboratorles Inc.,Cambrldge, MA, 1984.\[28\] Webber, Bonnle Lynn.
A Forma~ App~'oach to/~.scourse Anapho1"a. Ph.D.
Th., Harvard University.1978.
Also, Techmcal  Report  No.
3761.
Bolt Beranekand Newman Inc.217
