A PROPERTY-SHARING CONSTRAINT IN CENTERINGMegumi KameyamaDepartment ofComputer and Information ScienceThe Moore School of Eleelrical Engineering/D2University of PennsylvaniaPhiladelphia, PA 19104ABSTRACT 1A constraint is proposed in the Centeringapproach to pronoun resolution i  discourse.
This"property-sharing" constraint requires that twopronominal expressions that retain the same Cbacross adjacent utterances share a certaincommon grammatical property.
This property isexpressed along the dimension of thegrammatical function SUBJECT for bothJapanese and English discourses, where differentpronominal forms are primarily used to realizethe Cb.
It is the zero pronominal in Japanese, andthe (unstressed) overt pronoun in English.
Theresulting constraint complements the originalCentering, accounting for its apparent violationsand providing a solution to the interpretation ofmulti-pronominal utterances.
It also provides analternative account of anaphora interpretationthat appears to be due to structural parallelism.This reconciliation of centering/focusing andparallelism is a major advantage.
I will then addanother dimension called the "speakeridentification" tothe constraint to handle a groupof special eases in Japanese discourse.
Itindicates a close association between centeringand the speaker's viewpoint, and sheds light onwhat underlies the effect of perception reports onpronoun resolution in general.
These results, bydrawing on facts in two very different languages,demonstrate he cross-linguistic applicability ofthe centering framework.using this notion.
2Centers are semantic objects--(sets of) individuals,objects, states, actions, or events--represented in complexways so that a strict coreferenee need not hold betweenanaphorically related terms?
A center mentioned in thecurrent utterance may be mentioned again in the nextutterance (by the same or a different speaker).
In this sense,a center is "forward-looking" (CD.
Crucially, one of thecenters may be identified as "backward-looking" (Cb).
Cbis the entity an utterance most centrally concerns.
Its mainrole is to connect he current utterance to the precedingone(s).
4The term the Center is also used for the Cb.
Thusan utterance may be associated with any number of Cfs,one of which may be the Cb.
These Cfs are given a defaultexpected Cb order, that is, "how much each center isexpected to be the next Cb".
I regard Cb to be optional foran utterance.
5 It comes into exsistence by way of aCb.establishment process, that is, the process in which aprevious non-Cb becomes the new Cb in discourse.Sidner's (1981, 1983) immediate focus and potential foci inlocal focusing correspond to Cb and Cfs, respectively.
Thedifference is that Sidner uses two immediate foci(Discourse Focus and Actor Focus) while centering usesonly one (Cb) (see Grosz et.
al.
1983 for discussion).Various factors --syntactic, semantic, and pragmatic--are combined for the identification of the Cb.
One of themis the use of pronominal expressions, as expressed in the1.
IntroductionGrosz, Joshi, & Weinstein (1983) postulated that eachutterance in discourse concerns a set of entities called thecenters, and discussed how certain facts of local discourseconnectedness (a opposed to global) can be accounted forIThis work was supported in parts by the Center for theStudy of Language and Information at Stanford Universityand by grants from the National Science Foundation(DCR84-11726) for the Department of Computer andInformation Science and from the Alfred P. SloanFoundation for the Cognitive Science Program at theUniversity of Pennsylvania.2In a theory of discourse structure that consists of threeinteracting components, linguistic, intentional, andattentional (Grosz & Sidner 1985), centers are found in thelocal attentional structure.3SCe Sidner's (1979) focus representation, forinstance.4The notion of centering originally comes from Joshi &Weinstein (1981).5We can view Cb either optional or obligatory for eachutterance.
The difference seems more conceptual thansubstantial since what is crucial for providing a referentcandidate is the expected Cb order given to the Cf setwhether this set contains the Cb or not.
Relative merits ofeach approach should be clarified in the future.200original Centering rule (Grosz et.
al.
1983): 6 2.
The SUBJECT constraint(1) If the Cb of the current utterance is the same as theCb of the previous utterance, apronoun should be used.
(1) is stated as a heuristic in the production of English.It is assumed that an equivalent interpretation heuristic isused by a hearer.
Roughly, a pronoun "realizes" the currentCb that continues the previous Cb.
7In this paper, I will first point out certain facts that thebasic Centering rule does not explain, then propose afurther constraint that substantiates the basic rule.
This iscalled the "property-sharing" constraint, which requiresthat two pronominal elements realizing the same Cb inadjacent utterances share a certain common grammaticalproperty.
This shared property itself is expressed as adefault preference order reflecting the nature of theconstraint as a discourse rule.
The initial formulation of theconstraint only refers to the gratnmatical functionSUBJECT.
It explains the problem cases for the basicCentering rule in Japanese and English.
It also accounts fora subset of what appears to be an effect of structuralparallelism in anaphora interpretation.
Then I will proposean additional dimension of the shared property called the"speaker identification" property.
The revised constraintreferring to both dimensions accounts for a group ofcounterexamples to the initial formulation found inJapanese discourse.
It also sheds fight on what is involvedin interpreting perception reports in both languages.Before starting the discussion, I would like to commenton the nature of the data used here.
I will mostly useconstructed discourse sequences where the role played bycommonsense inferences or special linguistic devices (suchas slzess and intonation) for guiding pronouninterpretations is minimal.
All examples in this paper are tobe read with fiat intonation with unstressed pronouns.These limitations are in order to identify thegrammatically-based default order that gives rise topreferred interpretations in neutral contexts.
Note that thisdefault order alone does not determine interpretations ofpronominal elements.
Rather, its role in the centeringframework is to give an ordered fist of referents (centers)so that commonsense inferences can be controlled.Interpretations and acceptability judgements of theexamples in this paper result from interviews with anumber of native speakers in each language.2.1.
JapaneseIn Japanese, the expression primarily used to realize theCb is the zero pronominal O.e., unexpressed subject orobject), a The grammatical features (e.g., gender, number,person) of these unexpressed subjects and objects are notmorphologically marked elsewhere in the sentence, whichdistinguishes them from the so-called "pro-drop", such asthe unexpressed finite clause subject in Italian and Spanishwhose grammatical features are morphologically markedon the verb inflection.
The basic Centering role in Japanesecan be obtained by changing the word pronoun to zeropronominal in (1) (Kameyama 1985).In the following discourse fragment, it is reasonable toassume that Rosa is the Cb of the second utterance: 9(2)1.
Rosa wa dare o matte-iru no-desu ka.Rosa TP-SB who OB is-waiting-for ASN Q"Who is Rosa waiting for?"2.
?
Mary o matte-iru no-desu.SB Mary OB is-waiting-for ASN"\[She\] is waiting for Mary.
"\[Cb=Rosa\]It seems equally reasonable to assume that Rosa is theCb of the second utterance in the following variation of (2):O)1.
Dare ga Rosa o matte-iru no-desu ka.who SB Rosa OB is-waiting-for ASN Q"Who is waiting for Rosa?"2.
Mary ga ?
matte-iru no-desu.Mary SB OB is-waiting-for ASN"Mary is waiting for \[her\].
"\[Cb=Rosa\]If the Cb-status of an entity is homogeneous, we wouldexpect hat the two instances of the Cb above have exactlythe same effect, if any, on the subsequent u terance.
Whenan identical third utterance is added to both, however, itbecomes clear that the centered individual Rosa is not of anequal status in the two cases:6Grosz et.
al.
(in preparation) propose various constraintson this rule, and, among other things, distinguish betweenthe retention and continuation of the Cb.
I will use thewords retain and continue in non-technical sense in thispaper.tAn expression realizes a center ather than denoting it.Realization allows either a value-free or value-loadedinterpretation (see Grosz et.
al.
1983 for discussion).SZero pronominals are also found in Chinese, Korean,Vietnamese, Thai, etc.
I will also call them "zero-subject","zero-object", and so on.9The following symbols are used for grammaticalmarkers in the gloss: SB (subject), OB (direct object), 02(indirect/second object), TP (topic), ASN (assertion), CMP(complementizer), Q (question).
The symbol ?
is used fora zero pronominal, and its translation equivalent appears in\[\].201(4)?
Yuusyoku ni syootaisi-tano-desu.SB OB supper to invited ASN"\[She\] invited \[her\] to dinner.
"after(2): \[strong preference: Rosa invited Mary\]after(3): \[weak preference: Mary invited Rosa\](5)Rosa ni yuusyoku ni syootais-are-ta no-dcsu.SB Rosa by supper to was-invited ASN"\[She\] was invited by Rosa to dinner.
"(she=: Mary) I?after(2): marginal (*?
)after(3): acceptableThe extension (4) is a multi-zero-pronominal utterance.The zero-subject and zero-object pronominals receivereverse interpretations depending on whether the utterancefollows (2) or (3).
Although this fact by itself does notcontradict the basic rule (I), it poses a question as to whichzero pronominal in (4) realizes its Cb.
There are thefollowing two possibilities.
If the previous Cb continues tobe the current Cb by default, it follows that the choice ofthe Cb-realizing zero pronominal depends entirely on thepreceding discourse context.
On the other hand, if someinherent property of a zero pronominal (e.g., subject/object)independently decides which one realizes the Cb, theprevious context need not be considered.
For instance, if azero-subject is always more closely associated with the Cbthan a zero-object, the discourse sequence (3) to (4)changes the Cb from Rosa to Mary.In the extension (5), Rosa (the previous Cb) ismentioned with a full name while the single zeropronominal picks out a previous non-Cb, Mary.
If Rosa isstill the Cb here, this utlerance violates the basic Centeringrule, so the rule predicts unacceptability, which is indeedthe case following the sequence (2).
rl The same rule,however, provides no clue for the puzzling acceptability ofthe same extension following the sequence (3).
Moreover,it is possible that Rosa is no longer the Cb in (5), in whichcase, rule (1) simply does not apply.Examples like these are the basis for the first version ofthe Centering Constraint:(6) Centering Constraint \[Japanese\] (1st approximation)Two zero pronominals that retain the same Cb in adjacentutterances should share one of the following properties:Io=: indicates the association between a linguistic item(leR-hand side) and a non-linguistic entity (right-handside).llNote that violating a discourse rule like (1) leads tomore difficulty in understanding rather than clear-cut"ungrammaticality".SUBJECT or nonSUBJECT.
12(6) says that two zero pronominals supporting the sameCb in adjacent utterances should both be either SUBJECTor nonSUBJECT.
In the case of discourse xtension (4)above, if the Cb is still Rosa, it should be realized with azero-subject after the sequence (2) and with a zero-objectafter (3).
This is shown below:(7)1.
\[Cb<SUBJ> =Rosa\] <-(2)-22.
\[Cb<SUBJ> =Rosa\] <--(4) \[strong preference\](s)I.
\ [Cb<OBJ> = Rosa\] <-(3)-22.
\[Cb<OBJ> =Rosa\] <-(4) \[weak preference\]I aUribute the different degree of preference between (7)and (8) to the difference in canonicality of centering.
A Cbcontinued with zero-subjects as in (7) is more stable, ormore canonical, than one continued with zero-objects as in(8), which is but one manifestation of the overallsignificance of SUBJECT in centering.
13 This leads to thesecond approximation of the Centering Constraint:(9) Centering Constraint \[Japanese\] (2ndapproximation)Two zero pronominals that retain the same Cb in adjacentutterances should share one of the following properties (indescending order of preference): 1) SUBJECT, 2)nonSUBJECT.Constraint (9) predicts that retaining aCb is good whenthe two pronominals are both either SUBJECT ornonSUBJECT while it is bad (i.e., leading to complexinferences) when one is SUBJECT and the other is not,This in turn predicts that changing the Cb across adjacentutterances is acceptable when the two pronominals havedifferent properties while it is not when they are of thesame property.The difference in acceptability between sequence (2) to(5) (marginal) and sequence (3) to (5) (acceptable) wouldthen follow from this constraint.
The former is bad becauseit changes the Cb with two SUBJECT zero pronominals, asshown in (10).
The latter is good because itchanges the Cbwith different zero pronominals (from OBJECT toSUBJECT), as shown in (11):(I0)1.
\ [Cb<SUBJ> = Rosa\] <-(2)-22.
"2 \[Cb<SUBJ> =Mary\] <--(5) \[marginal\](11)1.
\[Cb<OBJ> -- Rosa\] <-(3)-22.
\[Cb<SUBJ>=Mary\] <-(5)\[acceptable\]12I'm refen'ing to the "surface" grammatical functionSUBJECT.13The importance of SUBJECT in centering is alsodiscussed in Grosz et.
al.
(in preparation).202The acceptability of the Cb-shift shown in (11) abovecontrasts with the unacceptability of retaining the Cb withthese pronominals.
The latter in fact appeared in the aboveexample as the nonpreferred reading of sequence (3) to (4),which is shown in (12):(12)1.
\[Cb<OBJ> =Rosa\]2.
??
\[Cb<SUBJ> =Rosa\]2.2.
EngfishThe following sequences in English are equivalent tothose in Japanese (2) to (5):(13)1. Who is Max waiting for?2.
He is waiting for Fred.\[Cb<SUBJ>=Max\]3a.
He invited him to dinner.\[strong preference: Max invited Fred\]3b.
?
* He was invited by Max to dinner.(14)1.
Who is waiting for Max?2.
Fred is waiting for him.\[Cb<nonSUBJ>=Max\]3a.
He invited him to dinner.\[weak preference: Fred invited Max\]3b.
(.9) He was invited by Max to dinner.The evaluation of the third utterance parallels theJapanese xample.
This indicates that the SUBJECT-basedconstraint stated in (9) for Japanese is applicable to Englishtogether with all the analogous consequences discussedabove.
The constraint is restated below for pronominalexpressions ingeneral:(15) Centering Constraint \[general\] (approximation)Two pronominal expressions that retain the same Cb inadjacent utterances hould share one of the followingproperties (in descending order of preference): 1)SUBJECT, 2) nonSUBJECT.The particular kind of pronominal expressions relevanthere vary from language to language.
Kameyama (1985:Ch.1) hypothesized that it is the pronominal element withthe "less phonetic ontent" for each grammatical functionof a language 14 and that it is predictable from thetypological perspective on available pronominal forms.
Forinstance, it is the unstressed pronoun in English wherepronouns must always be overt, and it is the zeropronominal in Japanese where pronouns with no phonetic14It is possible that only certain grammatical functions(e.g., SUBJECT, OBJECT, and OBJECT2) are relavant.tothe Cb.
This will have to be clarified in the future.content exist (for subjects and objects).
It is furtherpredicted that morphologically bound pronominal forms(i.e., agreement inflections, clitics, and affixes) rather thanfull independent pronouns are used for Cb-realization if alanguage has this option.
For instance, this option exists forthe finite clause subject in Italian and Spanish in terms ofthe agreement inflection, and for the t'mite clause subjectand object in Warlpiri in terms of clities.
The constraint inEnglish is stated below:(16) Centering Constraint \[English\]Two unstressed pronouns that retain the same Cb inadjacent utterances hould share one of the followingproperties (in descending order of preference): 1)SUBJECT, 2) nonSUBJECT.2.3.
Accounting for the effect of parallelism inCb-establlshmentThe given property-sharing constraint has so far beenproposed for pronominal elements that retain the same Cbin adjacent utterances.
By its reference to the grammaticalproperty SUBJECT, the constraint indicates that adjacentutterances of the same Cb cohere ven better when there isa certain degree of grammatical parallelism.Analogous constraints account for at least two otherkinds of parallelism effects on pronoun interpretation inEnglish.
They are in the context of what I call theCb.establishmem, that is, the process in which a previousnon-Cb becomes the Cb.
The case of Cb-shift is a subeaseof Cb-establishment.15Ambiguous multi-pronouns.
Theinterpretation of a multi-pronominalestablishes a Cb.
An example follows:(17)1.
Max is waiting for Fred.2.
He invited him to dinner.\[preference: Max invited Fred\]first is theutterance that(17) shows that when two pronouns are potentiallyambiguous in reference, the preferred interpretationconforms to a property-sharing constraint.
That is, there isa higher tendency that the SUBJECT pronoun corefers withthe SUBJECT of the previous utterance.It is crucial here that (a) there is more than one pronounand Co) two (or more) of them are potentially ambiguous(i.e., of the same grammatical features).
Otherwise, theprocess of Cb-establishment need not be constrained by the15In the present approach, the default "expected Cb" isthe (matrix) SUBJECT referent, and the Cb is establishedin the next utterance with a (matrix) (SUBJECT) pronoun,ff there is one.
More factors uch as TOPIC (wa-marking)and Ident (see below) are also relevant to the centering inJapanese.
These are discussed in the longer paper inpreparation.203property-sharing, as illustrated in the following examples:(18) \[single pronoun\]1.
Carl is talking to Tom in the Lab.2.
Terry was just looking for him.\[preference: h/m=: Carl\](19) \[unambiguous two pronouns\]1.
Max is waiting for Susan.2.
She invited him to dinner.
(18)-2 has only one pronoun and (19)-2 has twopronouns with different gender.
In both cases, thenonSUBJECT pronoun aturally corefers with the previousSUBJECT.
The property-sharing constraint becomesrelevant only in the case of completely ambiguous multi-pronouns as in (17).
Note that this in turn explains why theproperty-sharing was first recognized for zero pronominals,which lack gender/number/person distinctions altogether.Explicitly signalled parallelism.
The second relevanttype of parallelism effect is found in a discourse sequencewith explicit linguistic signals for a parallel structure.Examples follow:(20) \[Contrast this with (18)\]1.
Carl is talking to Tom in the Lab.2.
Terry wants to talk to him too.\[preference: h /~:  Tom\](21) \[from Sidner 1979:179\]1.
The green Whitierleaf ismost commonlyfound near the wild rose.2.
The wild violet is found near it too.<it=: wild rose>Parallelisms in (20) and (21) are clearly signalled with(i) the same verbal expressions (talk to and be found near)and (ii) the word too.
In such cases, a version of theproperty-sharing scheme would propose the correctspecification of the single pronoun as the first choice.
Sincethe pronouns are nonSUBJECT, they should co-specifywith the nonSUBJECT in the first utterance, which are Tomand the wild rose, respectively.
16Significant here is the fact that (21) was a problem casefor Sidner's (1979) focusing-based pronoun interpretationalgorithm.
She in fact concluded that pronouninterpretation involving structuralparaUelism was a sourcefor anaphora inherently different from focusing:"Focussing cannot account for the detection ofparallel structure, not only because thecomputation of such structure is poorlyunderstood, but also because focussing choosesdifferent defaults for co-specification than thoserequired for paraUelism.
"(p.236)If a property-sharing constraint is invoked in interpreting161"he property of nonSUBJECT may have to he brokenup into subclasses (possibly into each grammaticalfunction) when there are more than one nonSUBJECTs inthe first utterance.
(21)-2, the "wild rose" (nonSUBJECT) overrides thedefault expected Cb, the "green Whitierleaf' (SUBJECT),as the first-choice referent for the pronoun it(nonSUBJECT).
The major advantage of the presentproperty-sharing constraint is its role in combining theeffects of both focusing/centering and structuralparallelism.3.
The speaker identification constraint3.1.
IdentAlthough correct in most cases, the Centering Constraintas stated in (9) is systematically violated by a certain groupof counterexamples in Japanese.
This has to do with whatKuno calls empathy, a grammatical feature especiallyprominent in Japanese, defined as follows:(22) Empathy (Kuno & Kaburagi 1977:628)Empathy is the speaker's identification, with varyingdegrees, with a person who participates in the event hat hedescribes in a sentence.I will call it the speaker identification, or simply,/dent/ficat/on.
17 When the main predicate of an utteranceselects one of its arguments for the identifu:ation locus(henceforth Ident), the speaker automatically identifies(with varying degrees) with the viewpoint of its referent(usually human).
The unmarked Ident is the SUBJECT, butsome verbs have nonSUBJECT Ident.
For instance, amonggiving/receiving verbs, ageru 'give' and morau 'receive'have SUBJECT Ident, while kureru 'give' has OBJECI'2Ident, Is and for going/coming verbs, /ku 'go' hasSUBJECT Ident while kuru 'come' has nonSUBJECTIdent.
Each Ident feature is carried over in a complexpredicate made with one of these verbs as the "higher"predicate (e.g., V.kureru 'give the favor of V-ing'Ident=nonSUBJ).Counterexamples to the constraint stated in (9) are caseswith verbs of nonSUBJECT Ident:IT"Identification" is a better term than "empathy" inconveying the lack of speaker's emotional involvementand, moreover, it was used in the original definition ofempathy in (22).
The basic characterization of this notion isfully credited to Kuno and Kaburagi, however.lSOBJECT2 is the indirect or second object.204(23)1.
Masao wa Arabia-go naratte-iru.MasaoTP-SB Arabic OB is-learning"Masao is learning Arabic."2.
Aruhi ~ Arabia-zin o zyosei ni atta.one-xlaySB Arabian of lady to met"One day \[he\] met an Arabian lady."<Ident=SUBJ>\[Cb<SUBJ>=Masao\]3.
~ 4~ Iroiro sinsetu-ni site-kureta.SB 02 variously kindly do-gave"~ gave various kind favors to ~.
"<Ident=OBJ2>\[strong preference:The lady gave favors to Masao\]<zero-SUB J=: lady, zero-OBJ2=: Masao>The preferred reading of (23)-3 shows that thezero-Ident-OBJ2 is preferred over thezero-nonIdent-SUBJ for carrying over the Cb previouslyrealized with a zero-Ident-SUBJ.
In other words, whenIdent and SUBJECT are split, Ident overrides SUBJECT asthe stronger shared property for the zero pronominals thatretain the same Cb across adjacent utterances.Based on the interpretation of various SUBJ/Identcombinations ( ee Kameyama 1985 Ch.2 for more details),the constraint isrestated as follows: 19(24) Centering Constraint \[Japanese\] (final version)Two zero pronominals that retain the same Cb in adjacentutterances should share one of the following properties (indescending order of preference): 1) Ident-SUBJECT, 2)ldent alone, 3) SUBJECT alone, 4)nonldent.nonSUBJECT.The resulting constraint substantiates the role of the zeropronominal in the context of centering in Japanesediscourse.
The constraint in English need not incorporatethe Ident property, however.
According to Kuno &Kaburagi (ibid.
), there is only a handful of verbs withSUBJECT Ident (e.g., marry, meet, run into, hear from,receive from) and only one with nonSUBJECT Ident (comeup to), none of which propagate with an operation like theJapanese complex verb formation.
Moreover, even usingthese verbs, the Ident effect on pronoun interpretation is notat all clear in English.
2?The lack (or dispensability) of the speaker identificationconstraint does not mean that English centering is lessconstrained, because English pronouns are inherently moreconstrained than Japanese zero pronominals by thepresence of grammatical fealaLres, gender, number, andperson.
We can view the Ident feature of Japanese zeropronominals as a way to make up for the lack ofgender/number/person information available in overtpronouns.
The SUBJECT constraint s ated in (16), which issimply a subpart of the constraint in Japanese, thus remainsadequate in English.3.2.
Percept ion verbs:  possible l ink to IdentPerception verbs like see/hear, look~sound, etc.
anchorthe speaker's perspective just like Japanese Ident verbs.For example:(25)1.
Dan went to a party yesterday.2.
He saw his high school friend Jim.\[Cb<SUBJ>=Dan\]3.
He looked awfully pale.\[preference: Jim looked pale (to Dan).\](26)1.
Maria finally got her phone reconnected.2.
She called her sister Bella.\[Cb<SUBJ>=Marla\]3.
She sounded epressed.\[preference: Bella sounded epressed (to Maria)\]Equivalent sequences in Japanese give rise to the sameinterpretation, that is, the single pronominal element in thethird utterance picks out the previous non-Cb.
Thisexceptional case can be explained if verbs like look andsound are used to describe states perceived from theviewpoint of the individual the speaker currently 'identifieswith'.
As a consequence, the SUBJECT referent of such adescription is typically other than the one currentlyidentical with.
By making the previous Cb "the individualthe speaker currently identifies with", the preferredreadings of (25)-3 and (26)-3 can be explained.
Thisindicates that the speaker's viewpoint is closely related tothe Cb whether or not there is an ldent-based constraint in19Implicit here are two weakest properties to be shared:5) nonldent alone and 6) nonSUBJECT alone.
Thesewere left out because of the scarcity of actual instances indiscourse.
I found, however, that exactly the same scale ofshared properties accounts for the possibility of the/ntra-sentential zero pronominal binding in Japanese, andthat the full scale of six properties i actually needed for it(see Kameyama 1986).2 e ?Consider the following xample:1.
John is my brother.2.
He met Peter at a conference last weekend.<IdentffiSUBJ>3.
He came up to him and shook his hand.<IdentfnonSUBJ>The third utterance should read "Peter came up to John"if Ident overrides SUBJ.
More speakers gave the reverseinterpretation, however, showing the preference for theSUBJ-SUBJ coreference.205the language.Although there is a close relationship between Ident andthese perception reports, the 'grammatical' status of thelatter is not very clear.
In particular, it is questionablewhether the effect of perception verbs should bedifferentiated from commonsense-based interpretations asin the following example: Sam hit Bill on the head.
He hithim back on the chin.
It is an area open for more detailedstudies in the future.4.
ConclusionsWithin the framework of the Centering approach topronoun resolution in discourse, I have proposed anadditional constraint for Japanese and English.
Thisproperty-sharing consln~int requires that two pronominalexpressions that retain the same Cb across adjacentutterances share a c~Lain common grammatical property.This property has been identified in two dimensions.
Onehas to do with the grammatical function SUBJECT,  and theother has to do with the speaker identification propertyIdent.
The latter is necessary for Japanese discourse wherethe primary Cb-realizcr is the zero pronominal, but not forEnglish discourse where it is the (unstressed) overtpronoun.
The resulting constraint complements theoriginal Centering rule, accounting for its apparentviolations and providing a solution to the interpretation ofmulti-pronominal utterances.Two significant implications of the proposed constrainthave been discussed.
First, the SUBJECT constraintprovides an alternative account of anaphora interpretationthat appears to be due to structural parallelism.
Thisreconciliation of centering/focusing and parallelism is amajor advantase of this constraint.
Second, the speakeridentification constraint found in Japanese indicates acloseassociation between centering and the speaker's viewpoint.In particular, it sheds light on what underlies the effect ofperception reports on pronoun resolution.
These results, bydrawing on facts in two very different languages,demonstrate the cross-linguistic applicability of thecentering framework in general.The present property-sharing constraint highlights agrsmmatical aspect that contributes to local discoursecoherence.
It will be integrated into the default rules which,by ordering the candidate referents for a pronominalexpression, control the pragmatic inferences involved inpronoun resolution.ACKNOWLEDGEMENTSMy special thanks go to Barbara Grosz for her guidanceand encouragement for the work from which this paperdeveloped.
I have also greatly profited from discussionswith Aravind Joshi and comments on an earlier version byN.
Abe, M. Papalaskari, R. Rubinoff, J. Smudski, andB.
Webber.REFERENCESJoshi, Aravind and Scott Weinstein.
(1981) Control ofInference: Role of Some Aspects of Discourse Structure-Centering.
In Proceedings of the International JointConference on Artificial Intelligence.
Vancouver, B.C.
:385-387.Grosz, Barbara J.; Aravind K. Joshi; and ScottWeinstein.
(1983) Providing a Unified Account of DefiniteNoun Phrases in Discourse.
In Proceedings of the 21stAnnual Meeting of the ACL.
Association of ComputationalLinguistics, Cambridge, Mass: 44-50.Grosz, Barbara J.; Aravind K. Joshi; and ScottWeinstein.
(in preparation) Towards a ComputationalTheory of Discourse Interpretation.
MS. SRI InternationalAI-Center, Menlo Park, CA.Grosz, Barbara J. and Candace L. Sidner.
(1985) TheStructure of Discourse Structure.
Report No.
CSLI-85-39,Center for the Study of Language and Information,Stanford, California.
(To appear in ComputationalLinguistics 1986.
)Kameyama, Megumi.
(1985) Zero Anaphora: The Caseof Japanese.
Ph.D. dissertation, Stanford University,Stanford, California.Kameyama, Megumi.
(1986) Japanese Zero PronominalBinding: Where Syntax and Discourse Meet.
Paperpresented at the Second SDF Workshop in JapaneseSyntax.
Center for the Study of Language and Information,Stanford, California, March 7-9.Kuno, Susumu and Etsuko Kaburagi.
(1977) Empathyand Syntax.
Linguistic Inquiry 8: 627-672.Sidner, Candace L. (1979) Towards a ComputationalTheory of Definite Anaphora Comprehension i EnglishDiscourse.
Technical Report TR-537, MIT AI Lab,Cambridge, Mass.Sidner, Candace L. (1981) Focusing for Interpretation fPronouns.
American Journal of Coraputational Linguistics.7(4): 217-231.Sidner, Candace L. (1983) Focusing in theComprehension f Definite Anaphora.
In: Michael Bradyand Robert C. Berwick, Eds., Computational Models ofDiscourse.
MIT press, Cambridge, Mass.206
