THE CONTRIBUTION OF PARSING TO PROSODICPHRASING IN AN EXPERIMENTALTEXT-TO-SPEECH SYSTEMABSTRACTWhile various aspects of syntactic structure havebeen shown to bear on the determination of phrase-level prosody, the text-to-speech field has lacked arobust working system to test the possible relationsbetween syntax and prosody.
We describe animplemented system which uses the deterministicparser Fidditch to create the input for a set of prosodyrules.
The prosody rules generate a prosody tree thatspecifies the location and relative strength of prosodicphrase boundaries.
These specifications are convertedto annotations for the Bell Labs text-to-speech systemthat dictate modulations in pitch and duration for theinput sentence.We discuss the results of an experiment to determinethe performance of our system.
We are encouragedby an initial 5 percent error rate and we see the designof the parser and the modularity of the systemallowing changes that will upgrade this rate.INTRODUCTIONWe describe an experimental text-to-speech systemthat uses a deterministic parser and prosody rules togenerate phrase-level pitch and duration informationfor English input.
This information is used toannotate the input sentence, which is then processedby the text-to-speech programs currently underdevelopment at Bell Labs.
In constructing the ,system,our goal has been to test the hypotheses (i) thatinformation available in the syntax tree.
in particular.grammatical functions such as subject-predicate andhead-complement, is bv itself useful in determiningprosodic phrasing for svnthetic speech, and (ii) that itts possible to use a syntactic parser that specifiesgrammatical functions to determine prosodic phrasingfor synthetic speech.Although certain connections between syntax andprosody are well-known (e.g.
the influence of part ofspeech on stress in words like progress, or the settingoff of parenthetical expressions) very little practicalknowledge is available on which aspects of syntaxmight be connected to prosodic phrasing.
In manystudies, investigators have sought connections betweenconstituent structure and prosody (e.g.
Cooper andPaccia-Cooper 1980.
Umeda 1982.
Gee and Grosjean1983) but, with the exception of Selkirk (1984).
theytend to neglect the representation of grammaticalfunctions in the svntax tree.
Moreover, previous workhas not been specific enough to provide the basis for afull system implementation.
Based on our study ofprosodic phrasing in recorded human speech, weJoan BachenkoEileen FitzpatrickC.
E. WrightAT&T Bell Laborator iesMur ray  Hil l ,  New Jersey 07974decided to emphasize three aspects of structure thatrelate to phrasing: syntactic onstituency, grammaticalfunction, and constituent length.
These findings.which we will discuss in detail, have beenimplemented as a collection of prosody rules in anexperimental text-to-speech system.Two important features characterize our system.First.
the input to our prosody system is a parse treegenerated by a version of the deterministtc parserFidditch (Hindle 1983).
The left-corner searchstrategy of this parser and, in particular, itsdeterminism, give Fidditch the speed that makesonline text-to-speech production feasible.
1 In buildinga parse tree, Fldditch identifies the core subject-verb-object relations but makes no attempt to representadjunct or modifier relations.
Thus relative clauses.adverbials, and other non-argument constituents haveno specified position in the tree and no specifiedsemantic role.
Second.
the rules in the prosody systembuild a prosody tree by referring both to the syntacticstructure and to earlier stages of prosodic structure.The result is a hierarchical representation thatsupports the view, also proposed in Selkirk (1984).that grammatical function information is related toprosodic phrasin.g, but indirectly, through differentlevels of processing.Informal tests of the system show that it is capableof producing a significant improvement in theprosodic quality of the resulting synthesized speech,Our investigations of the system's problems, which wedescribe, have not revealed any seriouscounterexample to our basic approach.
In many cases.it appears that problems with the current version canbe resolved by taking our approach a step further, andincluding lexical information required by the parser asanother factor in the determination of prosodicphrasing.TEXT-TO-SPEECHMost text-to-speech systems comprise twocomponents: pronunciation rules and a speechsynthesizer.
Pronunciation rules convert he input textinto a phonetic transcription; this information mavalso be supplemented by a dictionary that providesinformation about the part of speech, stress pattern.and phonetic makeup of particular words.
The speechI.
With a ~rammar ofabout 600 rules and a lexicon of about 2400words, "Fidditch parses the 25 sample sentences of Robinson(1982), averagin~ 7 words per sentence and chosen for theirstructural divers*t'?, at an avera~hrate of .405 seconds persentence on a Sv'mbolics 3670.
~ rate is approximatelyproportional toth~ number of words in a sentence.145synthesizer then converts this phonetic transcriptioninto a series of speech parameters which aresubsequently processecl to produce digitized speech.While these systems tend to perform quite well onword pronunciation, they fall short when it comes toproviding good prosody for complete sentences.Current text-to-speech systems have no access to thesyntactic and semantic properties of a sentence thatinfluence phrase-level prosody.
Hence rules forsentence prosody, when they are provided at alltypically depend on superficial aspects of text (e.g.punctuation) and on heuristics that vary widely insophistication.
Although such techniques often add amore natural quality to the resulting synthetic speech,!hey .can fail in important ways, for example, byxgnormg the prosodic event between a lengthy subjectand a predicate, so that there is no clear prosodicboundary between right and mark in The characters onthe right mark the salient features.
2Several authors (e.g.
Allen 1976; Elovitz et al1976; Luce et al 1983) have suggested that prosodicdifferences between synthetic and natural speech arethe primary, unaddressed factor leading to difficultiesin the comprehension of fluent synthetic speech.
Therelation between phrase-level prosody and its sources,however, is so poorly understood that we have nogood sense of the degree to which different levels ofexplanation--syntactic, semantic, or pragmatic--areapplicable.
We currently have reasonable tools forautomatic syntactic anal~,sis of a text.
but there isnothing .equivalently well-developed for semantic orpragmatic textual analysis.
Thus an obvious goal is toexplore the extent to which phrase-level prosody canbe explained by the syntax tree and develop a detaileddescription of that relation.
A further goal is toconvert the resulting insights about this relation into asystem that can work with a speech synthesizer.
Thisallows us to test our description more adequately andperhaps also produce something that will further text-to-speech technology.SYNTACTIC STRUCTURE ANDPROSODIC PHRASINGCertain relations between syntax and prosody.especially at the word level, are well-known.
Forexample, the syntactic category of a word may affectits phonetic realization, as in the verb/adjectivedistinction of separate, approximate, and the verb/noundistinction of house, wind, lives.
Likewise, syntacticcategory affects word stress, so that verbs such asprogress, insert, object, and rebel receive final stress,whereas the corresponding nouns receive penultimatestress.Beyond the word level, however, there has beenlittle investigation of systematic onnections betweensyntactic structure and prosodic phrasing.
Thepsycholinguistic and acoustic investigations of Cooperand Paccia-Cooper (1980), Umeda (1982) and Gee andGrosjean (1983)and the prosodic theory of Selkirk(1984) are among the more notable studies andrepresent he two main approaches to syntax/prosody2.
Note that without a syntactic anal,,sis that correctly identifies~rammatical functions, it is impos'sible to determine whethertlae word mark is a noun ending the subject phrase or the verbof the predicate phrase.
Simple 'surface" parsers, such as thatdescribed in Umeda and Teranishl (1974l.
will still fail to identify, the prosodic boundar.~ correctly..relations.
In Cooper and Paccia-Cooper (1980) andUmeda (1982), the connection from syntax to prosodicphrasing is unmediated by any filtering process, i.e..they propose that the details of prosodic phrasing canbe determined directly from syntactic structure byassociating particular syntactic nodes (or constituentboundaries) with a phonetic value, either pausing,segmental engthening, or the blocking of the cross-word conditioning of phonological rules.
By contrast,Gee and Gros jean (1983) and Selkirk (1984) believethat the syntax-prosody relation is indirect: prosodicphrasing is derived by rules that refer to left-to-rightordering, length (or branching patterns), and, in theca~e of Selkirk.
grammatical function, as well asconstituent membership in order to infer ahierarchical prosodic structure.
But while theirrespective positions are quite clear, none of thesestudies is conclusive.
All lack a syntactic frameworksufficiently detailed and formalized to allow extensivetesting, and most consider 9nly a small number ofsentences and sentence types?.To develop our analysis, we first examinedprosodic phrasing in the speech of one of us readingprose from various texts, including four instructionmanuals.
These texts were later augmented by a~ rofessional reading of a prose story.
The boundaries etween prosodic phrases were identified and thenclassed according to their syntactic context andsemantic function.Our results, which are outlined below, indicate anorganization of the prosodic phrases that supports the'indirect relationship' approach of Gee and Grosjean(1983) and Selkirk (1984).
We found that, in ourcorpus, prosodic phrasing depends on three aspects ofstructure: the breakdown into syntactic constituents,the .grammatical function of a constituent, andconstxtuent length, Let us review each of thesefactors.Syntactic Constituency.The possible constituents recognized by our parserare Noun Phrase (NP).
Verb Phrase (VP).
AdjectivePhrase (AdjP), Adverb Phrase (AdvP), andPrepositional Phrase (PP).
In general, we found thatsyntactic constituency is partxcularly important forpredicting points at which a prosodic phrase boundaryis not produced, i.e., the words within a syntacticconstituent cohere.
For example, the italicizedphrases in (1)-(5) had no perceptible boundaries at thelocations indicated by #:(1) Left-hand # power unit is connected ...(2) This procedure shows # you ...(3) An extremely # narrow opening ...(4) To spread powerload more # evenly(5) ... next # to any powered di-groupThe single exception to word cohesion within syntactic3.
Gee and Grosjean (1983) use a corpus of 14 sentences.
Umeda(1982) considers a large corpus but.
like Gee and Grosjean.does not distinguish among grammatical functions Althou~_hSelkirk cites r~any exam~lgs in her discussionsof phra~'alstress and word-level prosody, her description of prosodicphrasing focusses on only a single example.146constituents involved boundaries between the verb andits first or second object when the object in questionwas lengthy.
We discuss this exception below.Grammatical Functions.Our sample indicated that phrase boundaries arealso determined by the grammatical relations amongthe syntactic constituents, i.e.
the argument structureof the sentence.
Four grammatical relations concernus:(a) subject-predicate, as in The 48-channe l  modu le  --has  two  d i -g roups .
(b) head-complement, where the head can be anoun, verb, or adjective and may have onecomplement, e.g.
has  -- two  d i -g roups ,  or twocomplements, e.g.
shows  -- you  -- how to f l y  your  k i te .
(c) sentence-adjunct, as in I nser t  un i t  in to  cor rec tshe l f  l ocat ion  -- per  deta i l  ins t ruc t ions .
(d) head-modifier, where the head can be a noun,verb, adverb, or adjective and the modifier can be oneof several things, depending on the head (e.g., fornouns, the modifier can be a relative clause; for verbs,it can be a prepositional phrase; for adjectives andadverbs, the modifier can be a comparative).We observed a hierarchy among these relationswith respect to the strength, or perceptibility, of aprosodic boundary, with the boundary betweensentence and adjunct receiving the highest potentialboundary strength, followed by the subject-predicateboundary, then the head-complement and head-modifier boundaries.
Thus in (6), there is a strongboundary between subject and predicate, whereas in(7), due to the strong boundary between adjunct andcore sentence, the subject-predicate boundarydiminishes.
(Dashes indicate the location of theboundary being discussed.
)(6) The name of the character -- is not pronounced.
(7) When this switch is off -- the name of thecharacter is not pronounced.Constituent Length.While we may view each boundary as having anintrinsic strength based on constituency andgrammatical function, the determination of actualstrengths appears to depend on the interaction of theintrinsic strength of a boundary with the strengths ofother boundaries in the sentence, as well as thedistance between these boundaries.
The most salientof the interactions we observed was between theplacement of a boundary at the subject-predicatejunction and the placement of a boundary followingthe verb-complement junction.
The mediating factorin this interaction was the relative length of thesubject with respect to the length of the verb'scomplements.
Thus a sentence such as (8).
with both ashort subject and a single short object generally isproduced without a boundary in either position.
(8) You have completed the task.But if, as in (9), the subject is long relative to theobject, then a break occurs between the subject andpredicate.
Conversely, if the subject is short relativeto the object, then a break will occur between the verband the object, as in (10).
Or, if there are two objectsand the first is simple, the break will occur betweenthem, as in (11).
(9) The materials required -- are one kite kit.
(10) How shall we judge -- the goodness of analgorithm?
(11) This procedure shows you -- how to fly yourkite.AN EXPERIMENTAL PROSODY SYSTEMOur findings confirmed that syntactic structureplays a major role in determining prosodic structure,but the relationship is indirect--the exact influence ofsyntactic constituency varies according to the lengthand grammatical function of each constituent.
Torefine and test this idea, we implemented anexperimental text-to-speech system in which rulesapply to a parse tree to infer prosodic structure andthen annotate the input string with phrasinginformation derived from the prosodic structure; thisannotated input string is submitted to the Bell Labstext-to-speech programs, which convert it into aspeech file.
Our system comprises three components:a parser that builds syntactic structure, rules thatderive prosody information from the syntacticstructure, and the Bell Labs text-to-speech programs.The parser and speech programs are independentcomponents.
The prosody rules act as a filter betweenthem, converting the syntactic information generatedby the parser into prosodic information that can besupplied to the text-to-speech programs.Parsing.Our parser is a version of Fidditch (Hindle 1983), amoderate coverage parser based on the deterministicmodel described in Marcus (1980).
To build syntacticstructure, Fidditch uses a grammar that requires therepresentations produced by lexical and syntactic rulesto be consistent with the (semantic) predicate-argument structure.
The surface syntactic structuresgenerated by the parser represent the argumentstructure of a phrase or sentence, i.e.
the "core"constituents of a sentence (its subject (NP), modality(AUX), and predicate (VP)) and the complements ofphrasal heads.
The structure is determined, for themost part, by rules that refer to argument informationthat is specified in the lexicon for the content words!nouns, verbs, adjectives, adverbs), and by rules thatinsert null terminals such as the "trace" of wh-movement.
In general, the grammar is consistent withthe government and binding framework of Chomsky(1981), as adapted to the needs of a parser.The input to the parser is a phrase or sentence(punctuation is optional).
Its output is a surfacestructure tree in which the status of a constituent withrespect to the predicate-argument s ructure of thesentence is indicated by the constituent's attachmentto higher nodes in the tree.
Thus only constituentsthat belong to the core are attached to the S node, andonly complements of a phrasal head can becomerighthand sisters of the head.
Adjuncts and modifiers.147whose role depends on semantic and pragmaticinformation about the discourse domain, have noassigned position within a structure and so arerepresented as "orphan" nodes in the tree.For example, Figure 1 shows the parse tree forLeft-h'and power  unit on each she l f  in 48-channel  modu lecan power  only the echo cance lers  that are in that she l f .4 The structure in Figure 1 contains a single coresentence -- unit can power  the cance lers  -- with left-branching modifiers -- le f t -hand,  power ,  and echo.
Thesentence also contains three modifiers -- the PPs oneach she l f  and in 48-channe l  module ,  and the adverbonly -- which are unattached constituents.
This is thesignificance of the unlabeled node dominating each ofthese constituents.
The PPs are not attached becauseunit is not lexically marked to take a PP headed by onor in as a complement, and she l f  is not lexicallymarked to take a PP complement headed by in.
Nor isany constituent lexically marked to accept onh'  as anargument.Figure 1 also contains a relative clause, that are inthat she l f .
In the relative clause, T is a null terminalthat stands for the trace of the relativized subject NP;the * in tense stands for a null Aux element.
Becausenouns do not select relative clauses as arguments (anynoun can be relativized), the parser does not identifythe relations of the modifier constituent to theelements of the core sentence.
Hence the relativeclause is not attached to any other syntactic node inthe tree.Text-to-speech Synthesis.The programs that make up the speech componentare described in Liberman and Buchsbaum (personalcommunication).
These programs take English text asinput and produce digitized speech output.
Byannotating the input text to this system, many aspectsof its operation can be overridden or modified: e.g.
thelocation of major and minor phrase boundaries, thestress given to words, the transcription of words andthe boundaries between them, the timing of segments,and details of the pitch contour.
As we will show,with our prosody system we are able to producestrings in which four boundary levels are identifiedand perceptually distinguished, using the current text-to-speech system annotations.Prosodic Phrasing.The prosody rules use information aboutconstituent structure, grammatical role, and length tomap a surface structure such as that in Figure 1 onto aprosody tree such as that in Figure 2.
The prosodytree identifies the location of phrase boundaries(signified by the ?
nodes) and the relative strength ofeach boundary (signified by a number in the ?
node).It is this information that is used to annotate the inputtext with escape sequences that provide the text-to-speech system with instructions about prosodicphrasing.In formulating our rules for building the prosodicstructure, we began with the idea of simplyimplementing the model of Gee and Grosjean (1983).This model, initially proposed to predict a form ofpsychological data describing subjective sentencestructure known as per fo rmance  st ructure ,  determinesprosodic boundaries from a syntactic tree, but assumesrather than explicitly presents a syntactic omponent.We were initially attracted to the Gee and Grosjeanmodel because of its emphasis on relative boundaryweighting, i.e., on the determination of the strength ofa given boundary with respect to the other boundariesin the sentence.
We found that in the data we hadcollected, this weighting played an important role.
Infact, we incorporated directly into our system onemethod of doing this weighting, namely Gee andGrosjean's rule to determine the strengths of theprosodic phrase boundaries around a verb usingrelative length (as measured by terminal node count).As we extended Gee and Grosjean's model tocreate an algorithm adequate for use in a generalpurpose system, our algorithm diverged from itsstarting point, reflecting our attempts to correctweaknesses and lacunae that we encountered in theGee and Grosjean model.
That we encountered theseproblems is not surprising given the differencebetween our goals and those of Gee and Grosjean.The most important difference between the Geeand Grosjean model and our current algorithminvolves the factors determining boundary weight.Gee and Grosjean assume that this weighting isdependent only on the number of syntactic nodes,their left-to-right ordering and, in the case of the verbphrase, on constituent length.
In contrast, our data, inagreement with Selkirk's (1984) theoretical analysis,indicated that boundary strength is dependent on thegrammatical functions that the constituents in a givensentence play.
In particular, we observed a hierarchyamong these functions with respect to boundarystrength, as discussed below.
5In addition to incorporating rammatical functioninformation into our system, we fleshed out the modelof Gee and Grosjean to deal with syntactic structuresthat they do not explicitly consider.
In particular, Geeand Grosjean's strictly left-to-right building of the5.
As an example of the effect that grammatical functions haveon prosodic phrasing, consider the sentence Finalh" the strangeyoung man left.
We view this sentence as consisting of twolgrammatical relations: subject-predicate and adjunct-sentence.m our hierarchy of grammatical relations, the boundarybetween the adjuhct and the sentence is more salient han theboundary between the subject and the predicate.
The systemreflects this by assigning a stronger boundary following Finallythan following man.If we exclude any effects of grammatical functions andassume a simple l.eft-to-right attachment of the threeconstituents Finally, the stranee voune man and left, to theprosody tree,.we ~,ould assigr/ a -strofiger boundary followingmanGr .
.
.
.
.
.
man Imiowing Finally.
It is not .clear that Gee andoslean make this lett-to-rlght assumption i such examples.They view adverbial phrases-like Fina\[Iv as dominated by thecomi~lementizer node in the s)ntax tree.
and it is difficult todetermine .whether the)' integrate the material in thecomptemennzer Wltla the material in the core sentence as theyare analy.zing the material in the core bentence or after thatanalysis IS completed.
If they integrate the complementizerwith the core sentence, then they assume that Finally bundleswith the sentence in a left-td-right manner and- predict,incorrectly, that the stronger boundary occurs after man.
Ifthey complete the prosodic analysis of the core sentencebefore bundling the sentence with the complementizer, thenthey incorrectly predict that there is a strong boundary afterwh- phrases in'the complementizer.
In particular, they wouldincorrectly predict that in sentences like At the outset whatproblems d iayou expect the most perceptible boundary wouldbe after problems.Furthermore, assuming that an adjunct in sentence-initialposition is dominated b~ the complementizer node and insentence-final position "by S-bar creates an inconsistentdescription, which hampe?s the ~alue of the model as anexperimental tool.148prosodic tree left certain questions open, Forexample, their model does not deal with sentencesembedded in the middle of a main sentence (as-in Thenotion \[that he would refrain f rom such an act\] wasincorrect.)
We incorporate embedded sentences intothe prosodic tree in a cyclic manner to insure that thematerial in the embedded sentence is processed beforethat in the main sentence.
6 In addition.
Gee andGrosjean leave open the treatment of the multiplerightward embedding of non-sentential constituents,e.g., the NP embedding in The destruction of the goodname of his father.
Our approach is to handle thesecases recursively, from the most deeply embeddedphrase up, in order to preserve the prosodic cohesionof the entire NP.Our adjunction rules are derived for the most partfrom Selkirk's account.
We have also made use of theidea, which Gee and Grosjean (\[983) take largely fromthe work of Selkirk, that certain syntactic heads markoff phonological phrase boundaries, and provide thebasic prosodic constituents for higher level analysis.Our prosody rules run in four independent stages.Each stage builds on the previous stage, so that therules can refer to both syntactic and prosodic structureas they build successively higher levels of prosodicstructure.
(i) Adjunction Rules combine orthographical lydistinct words into phonological constituents with nointernal word boundary, They join a word to its leftor right neighbor depending on (a) the category of theword, and (b) its structural relation to other words.
Ingeneral, adjoinable words are the function words--articles, complementizers, auxil iary verbs,conjunctions, prepositions and pronouns (except forthe "strong" possessives, mine, hers, theirs, yours, ours,which are treated as regular NP's).Adjunction occurs six times for the sentence inFigure 2 to create six multiple word groups, all right-adjoining: on each, in 48-channel, can power, the echo,that are and in that.
These groups of adjoined wordsappear as terminals in the prosody tree in Figure 2.
Insubsequent processing the boundaries between thewords in these groups are marked so that the text-to-speech system does not produce the prosodicindications of a word boundary.
In addition, thesegroups are treated as single words in further analyses.
(ii) ~-phrasing Rules construct phonological (or 6p)phrases, which are the building blocks of the prosodytree.
These rules identify groups of words that coherestrongly in speech and thus should not be separated byphrase boundaries.
In the present implementation,each ?
phrase is constructed by a left-to-right processthat collects the words formed by adjunction until itreaches a noun or verb.
At this point, a ?
phrase iscreated that consists of the collected words plus thenoun or verb, which acts as head of the phrase.
Forexample, in that shelf, in Figure 2. is a single ?
phraseconsisting of two words.In Figure 2, the ?
nodes marked with a syntacticcategory are the minimal phonological constituentswith respect to later rules that build the prosodics.
Having taken this strona approach, we now understand thelimited exceptions to this~mechanism, which we discuss below'.phrases; these @ phrases have an internal structure,but the structure plays no role in further processing.Note that neither adjectives nor adverbs are allowedto be the head of a ?
phrase, so that three additionalopen slots is a single ?
phrase consisting of four words.Examples such as Someone tall walked into the room,however, suggest that our treatment of thesecategories is not detailed enough and that, in futureversions of the system, some adjectives and adverbsshould act as ?
heads.
(iii) Prosody-phrasing rules use information aboutphrases and syntactic structure to create a neworganization of the sentence and to assign strengthvalues to the boundaries between successive ?
phrases.The process of building the prosody tree starts withthe sentence node (S or Sbar) that is most deeplyembedded in the utterance, transforming it into aprosody subtree.
This process continues throughsuccessively higher levels of sentence nodes until alltop-level sentences have been transformed intoprosody subtrees.
All the processing of eachsuccessive sentence is done before the relation of thesentences to each other is considered7Within a sentence, the ?
phrases are processedfrom left to right.
This stage of the analysis uses awindow that allows access to three adjacent nodes.Pattern-action rules, which are described below, applyto the nodes in the window and build prosody subtreesthat replace the syntax nodes.
These subtrees areheaded by a ?
node containing a number thatrepresents node count; the number is determined bycounting the number of nodes contained in theprosodyasubtree, plus 1 for the ?
node that heads thesubtree.
In general, the prosody phrase rules do threethings:(a) Balance prosodic phrases by referring toconstituent length.
This rule only applies for buildingthe prosody subtree that contains the verb.
If thenode count for subject plus verb is less than the nodecount of the verb's complement, then subject and verbare grouped together in a prosodic subtree; this givesthe phrasing in The characters on the right -- mark thesalient features.
Otherwise, the verb is grouped withits complement in a prosodic subtree; an example ofthis grouping is the subtree for can power only the echocancelers in Figure 2,(b) Combine the ?
phrase daughters of the majorconstituents, excluding VP, into a prosodic subtree.At present, this rule only applies to NP and PP sinceadjectives and adverbs are currently not treated as @heads.
For example, the name of the character, whichforms two d~ phrases under NP (the name and of thecharacter), become a single prosody phrase thatreplaces the NP.7, We have found at least one class of phrases for which thisorder of processing appears inappropriate.
In these, the headof the top-level phrase is epistemlc -- e.g., believe, know, belief,knowledge -- andits complement is a sentence.
In most cases,the current processing order for embedded sentences willproduce a break between a head and a following embeddedsentence.
For this class of sentences, however, thd break doesnot seem to be appropriate.
"~Vhile it wot ld be straightforwardto handle this as an exception, we are currently examningwhether there is a more principled wa?
to describe what mustbe done in these cases.s Onl,~ the top-level ?
nodes, those which contain the head ofthe ~ ntactic phrase, are counted in computing the node count.LnU~,~'- y~:Lv~ .
.
.
.
am~lev ?
in Fi,,ure -, "~ the sub-phrasal branching' ot"Left-hand and power unit c~oes not contribute to the node count.149(c) Bundle together prosodic constituents (~phrases) from left to right if no other rules apply.This rule integrates the constituents left unattached bythe parser into the prosodic structure.
It accounts forthe prosodic structure of left-hand power unit on eachshelf in 48-channel module in figure 2, which is formedby first bundling left-hand power unit with on eachshelf, into q~-3, and then bundling the result with in48-channel module into ~-5.
The final application ofbundling replaces the Sigma node with the top levelprosody node, which is q5-13 in Figure 2.
(iv) Prosody conversion rules map the boundarystrength indices onto three phonological mechanisms.Boundary indices in the low range, e.g.
the ~-3 nodesin Figure 2, are real ized as a phrase accent(Pierrehumbert 1980).
Mid-range indices such as ~-5and ~-9 in Figure 2 are real ized as changes in pitchrange.
High indices are realized with modulations inboth pitch range and duration.
Thus the hierarchicalorganization of a structure such as that in Figure 2 canbe ref lected directly in the synthesized speech.PHENOMENA NOT TREATEDSeveral phenomena have been omitted from thisprel iminary version of the system.
Some of theseomissions arise from the fact that we concentrated onsentence analysis rather than discourse analysis.Others involve phenomena that characterize spokenEnglish, and thus did not occur in our original corpusof technical repair manuals.Contrastive stress is an example of prosodicphrasing based on discourse analysis.
In our system'sanalysis, the phrase f rom India does not receivecontrastive stress in (12).
(12) Passengers from several countries enteredthe terminal.Finally a man from India walked in.In designing the current system, we have concentratedon the level of sentence analysis.
Handl ing thecontrasts involved in data like (12) necessitates anadditional evel of discourse analysis.In addition, the system never explicitly manipulatessegment durations or overall speech rate.
Forexample, we have vet to explore whether lengtheningof the segment before a mid-range boundary value isappropriate,  or whether increasing the duration ofconstituents of the core sentence might enhance thenatural sound of the system.RESULTS AND FUTURE RESEARCHTo date.
our system has been tested systematical lyon a set of 39 sentences, and its performance has beenobserved less formally on a set of approximately 300sentences.
9 The test corpus covers a repair manual fortelephone switching systems and an introductorydescription of the Prose 2000 text-to-speech system.We added sentences cited in Umeda (1982) andsentences that we composed in order to extend therange of syntactic constructions represented in thetest.
In general, we have observed a significantimprovement of prosodic quality in those test9 The 39 sentences are listed in the appendix to this paper.sentences where the parser and the prosodiccomponent have returned acceptable results.We have observed problems, however, especially inthe formal test corpus, much of which we chose for itspotential difficulty.
Of the 39 test sentences, 38parsed correctly.
Of these, the prosodic componentreturned 26 sentences with a complete set ofacceptable prosody markings.
In terms of actualmarkings, the system marked 393 prosodic events, ofwhich 21 markings were unacceptable.
We canattr ibute errors in those sentences with unacceptableprosodic markings to three distinct problems discussedbelow.Complement Sentences.Five of the errors that arose from the prosodysystem's treatment of the test corpus result from thefact that the system sets off all subordinate sentences,including complement sentences, from the mainsentence.
Informal testing of the productions of fourinformants on the relevant data indicated that thisapproach works correctly for complement sentencessuch as (13)-(16).
(Complement sentences areitalicized):(13) Health services cautioned Western residents-- that they should ask where theirwatermelons come from before buying.
(14) We have to satisfy people -- that the crisis ispast.
(15) The vendors explained -- that this is the resultof illness among 281 people who ate pesticide-tainted watermelons.
(16) Watermelon growers wonder -- whether this willcontinue throughout the rest of the season.However.
the informant test consistently indicatedthat the complement sentences in (17)-(19)" are not setoff by a comparable boundary:(17) They believe California sales are still of f75 percent.
(18) They think the Southeast is shipping half itsnormal load.
(19) Growers and retailers claimed the incidenthurt sales across the USA.Cases like (17)-(19).
in which no break is perceivedbetween the verb and its complement sentence, form asyntactically distinct class in Fidditch.
This class ischaracter ized by the fact that the verbal head in eachcase is one that does not require that its complementsentence begin with a complementizer  (either that, for,or a wh- word).
The class includes epistemic verbs,like those in (17)-(19), as well as a wide range of verbsthat take either tensed sentences, or various types ofnon-tensed sentences as complements)  ?
The examples(20)-(26) demonstrate the range of this class(complement sentences are italicized):l0 Fidditch, in followin~ the outlines of Chomskv's (1981)Government and Binding theory, assumes that propositions,i.e., those elements that cBntain k\]oth aprkdicate and a perhapsnull subject, are syntactically represented as sentences,regardless of tensing.150(20) We had the ship's forces make temporaryrepairs.
(21) We saw the crew repairing the unit.
(22) He wants the units repaired by the ship's force.
(23) The construction of the unit makes detailedinvestigation impractical.
(24) Try to give the names of the characters inadvance.
(25) They will help finish the job.
(26) The new equipment will facilitate makingrepairs.Sentence-Final Constituents.Fifteen of the errors that arose from the system'streatment of the test corpus result from a highboundary value that sets final constituents off fromthe main sentence.
The high value is due to thesystem's purely left-to-right attachment of syntacticallyunattached constituents (see rule iii.d above).
Thehigh boundary value is acceptable in sentences like(27)-(29).
(The relevant final constituents in theseexamples are italicized).
(27) In these instances it may be desirable to usephoneme characters instead of text charactersto represent a word -- each time it appearsin the input text.
(28) Phonemic haracters can also be used tohandle syntactic data such as boundaries --which can improve speech quality.
(29) We were unable to finish the work -- dueto equipment failure.However.
the high boundary value sets the finalconstituent off unnaturally from the main sentence indata such as (30)-(32).
(30) The method by which you convert a wordinto phonemes is provided -- inChapter 7.
(31) The experimenters instructed the informantto speak -- naturally.
(32) We discussed the techniques -- we hadimplemented.In many cases it appears that the grammaticalrelation of the final constituent o the rest of thesentence determines the boundary value that sets offthis constituent.
In particular, sentence adjuncts,which bear no relation to any single item in asentence, are set off by a minor phrase boundary.whereas final constituents that modify a particularitem are less perceptibly set off.
This is thedistinction between the final constituents in (27)-(29),which are adjuncts, and those in (30)-(32), which aremodifiers.
However, while the distinction between thegrammatical relations of the core sentence(complement and subject) and those of the periphery(adjunct and modifier) is fairly straightforward, andhandled directly bv the mechanisms of the Fidditchparser, the distinctions between the peripheralelements of adjunct and modifier are complex andrequire the addition of costly mechanisms.The cost of adding adjunct/modifier distinctions isillustrated by the ambiguity that arises when bothadjunct and modifier readings are possible.
Forexample, on one reading of (31), naturally modifies theverb speak; i.e., the informants were to speak in anatural manner.
On the other reading, naturally is anadjunct equivalent o of course.
(To see this meaningmore clearly, consider the rearrangement of thissentence with the adjunct at the beginning: Naturally,the3: instructed the informants to speak.)
The context ofspeech analysis prefers the former reading.
However,the net benefit of adding sophisticated contextualanalysis to our system, if attainable, is, at best,unclear.
The same may be said of adding selectionalrestrictions, or detailed information on logical form.In contrast, a finer treatment of local syntacticconstraints on boundary values preceding finalconstituents i within reach.
From the data we haveexamined, it appears that the character of the prosodicevent before the final constituent can be locallydetermined to a great extent.
For the most part.
thisdetermination depends on the category type of thefinal constituent and on the contents of the leadingedge of the constituent.
For example, interjections(however.
moreover, therefore, alas, thus, of course, etc.
)and sentence adverbs (apparently, generally, luckih'etc.)
are uniformly set off by a high boundary valueand should remain so.
In contrast, the boundary valueof final prepositional phrases, particularly those witha monosyllabic preposition (in, on.
at, to.
with, for)  as11 the left edge of the phrase, should be reduced.
Weare currently engaged in categorizing the constituenttypes and left-edge items that characterize finalconstituents with respect to the prosodic event thatprecedes them.Alternatively, we are considering the play-it-safeapproach of reducing the high boundary values thatset off final constituents to mid-boundary values.Currently these values are converted to adownstepping feature.
This approach may also beuseful in conjunction with our local determinationapproach for those constituents whose status is eitherundecidable or ambiguous under the latter approachJ ~11.
In this view, expressions such as in principle, iJ~ eenerul, inparticular, in consideration of, etc.
must be treated likeinterjections.12.
Reducing the final boundary ~alue leaves ambiguitiesunresolved.
For sentences uch as (i!
and (ii), below, webelieve this lack of resolution is appropriate:(i) John saw a ~irl in the park with a telescope.park.liThe telesccTpe is witli John or the girl.
or it's in the(ii) I need a woman to fix the sink.\[I need a woman so that I can fix the sink.I need a woman who can fix the sink.\]Our view, following.
_Marcus.
and.. Hinde (p.e.)
is that in normal,spoken Enghsh, such ambl~ulnes are not processed unless thespeaker or listener is directly questioned re~,arding theambiguity, .
.
.
.
Likewise.
the.
_pr~osodic events .
~hat.
mi g htdlsamblguate are inappropriate unless uch questioning occurs.Other cases are less clear.
For example, it is difficult toimazine that, in (28) the difference between the readin~ of thewhic~'h clause as a sentence adjunct and as a noun~phrasemodifier on boundaries i not processed.
We would hope that insuch cases some local distinction, such as the presence orabsence of the comma in (28), obtains.151k !Sentence-Initial Constituents.When a sentence contains both sentence-initial andsentence-final adjuncts, the sentence-initial adjunctswill be less prominently set off than the sentence-finaladjuncts due to the left-to-right attachment of adjunctsto the prosodic tree (see rule iii.b above).
In data like(33), however, a more appropriate rendering wouldhave the boundary after the adjunct 011 a clear day bestrong relative to the boundary before the adjunct as itrises over the mountains.
(33) On a clear day you can see the sun as it risesover the mountains.While it would be trivial to increase the value ofthe pertinent boundary, we are as yet unsure what thecritical features are which require a more perceptibleboundary.
For example, while a higher boundaryvalue after the prepositional phrase in (34) might b'eacceptable, it is not clear that it is necessary:(34) In the morning John left.Given the stylistically distinct nature of this data, wehave not yet considered this question in detail.Summary.While we have systematically tested our system sofar on a small set of examples, the number of prosodicevents involved in those examples, 393. is high, due tothe length of the sentences tested.
We find the 5percent error rate, representing 21 prosodic events,encouraging at this stage in the development of thesystem.
In addition, we have delimited the problemareas of an approach that relies solely on informationavailable in the syntax tree.
Our initial investigationof these problems indicates that at least part of thenecessary information about phrase-level prosody isconveyed in the lexicon per se.
Additionally, due tothe left-corner orientation of the Fidditch parser,which exists independently to optimize searchstrategies, the necessary lexical information is madeeasily available.CONCLUSIONSWe have described an on-line experimental systemthat uses prosody rules to infer prosodic phrasing fromconstituent structure, grammatical functions, andlength considerations.
The system contains threemodules: a deterministic parser, a set of prosodicphrasing rules, and an algorithm to convert the outputof the prosodic phrasing rules into signals for the BellLabs text-to-speech system.In developing the experiment, our intention was tobuild a working system that would allow us to testvarious hypotheses about the connections betweensyntax and prosodic phrasing in human speech and toupgrade the prosody of existing synthetic speech.
Themodularity of our system enables us to alter eachmodule independently in order to test differenthypotheses.
For example, the parser can be altered toreflect the difference between verbs that require acomplementizer before a sentential complement andthose that do not.
13 This alteration is independent of13.
Fidditch represents this as a difference in the level of the com-plement sentence.
Verbs that require a complementizer takean S-bar complement, while verbs that do not require a com-plementizer take an S complement with an optional thatpreceding.the workings of the prosody system or the prosodyconversion rules.The existence of this prosody system makes theproblem areas in the syntax-prosody relation moretractable by allowing online testing of a large body ofdata.
For example, the prosodically differentcharacter of the two classes of complement sentencesdiscussed above became apparent after severalexamples from each class were run through thesystem.
We therefore feel we have built a tool thatwill aid in designing better approximations of sentenceprosody as it relates to syntacnc structure.REFERENCESAllen, J.
1976.
Synthesis of speech from unrestrictedtext.
Proceedings of the IEEE, 4, 433-442.Chomsky, N. 1971.
Lectures on government and binding.Dordrecht: Foris Publications.Cooper, W. and J. Paccia-Cooper.
1980.
Syntax andspeech.
Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press.Elovitz, H., R. Johnson, A. McHugh, and J. E. Shore.1976.
Letter-to-sound rules for automatic translationof English text to phonetics.
IEEE Transactions onAcoustics, Speech, and Signal Processing, 6, 446-459.Gee, J. P. and F. Grosjean.
1983.
Performancestructures: a psycholinguistic and linguistic appraisal.Cognitive Psychology, 15, 411-458.Hindle.
D. 1983.
User manual for Fidditch, adeterministic parser.
NRL Technical Memorandum#7590-142.Luce, P.A., Feustel, T.C., and Pisoni, D.B.
1983.Capacity demands in short-term memory for syntheticand natural speech.
Human Factors, 25, 17-32.Marcus, M. 1980.
A theory of syntactic recognition fo rnatural language.
Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.Pierrehumbert, J.
B.
1080.
The phonetics andphonology of English intonation.
Ph.D. Dissertation,MIT.Selkirk, E. O.
1984.
Phonology and syntax: the relationbetween sound and structure.
Cambridge, MA: MITPress.Umeda, N. 1982.
Boundary: perceptual and acousticproperties and syntactic and statistical determinants.Speech and Language, 7, 333-371.Umeda, N. and R. Teranishi.
The parsing program forautomatic text-to-speech synthesis developed at theElectrotechnical Laboratory in 1968.
IEEETransactions on Acoustics, Speech, and SignalProcessing, 23, 183-188.APPENDIX:  TEST SENTENCES1.
THE NAME OF THE CHARACTER IS NOTPRONOUNCED.2.
LEFT-HAND POWER UNIT ON EACH SHELFIN FORTY-E IGHTCHANNEL MODULE POWERS ONLY ECHOCANCELLERS IN THATSHELF.1523.
THE CONNECTION MUST BE DETERMINEDFOR THE LEFT-HAND POWER UNITS ON EACHSHELF.4.
THE CONNECTION MUST BE DETERMINEDFOR THE LEFT-HAND POWER UNITS WHICHARE ON EACH SHELF.5.
THE METHOD BY WHICH ONE CONVERTS AWORD INTO PHONEMES IS PROVIDED INCHAPTER 7.146.
WE DISCUSSED THE TECHNIQUES WE HADIMPLEMENTED.7.
THE TECHNIQUES WE HAD IMPLEMENTEDWERE TESTED ON A LARGER MACHINE.8.
THE MAN WHOM WE SAW YESTERDAYLIVES FAR AWAY FROM HERE.9.
THEY TOLD HIM TO WALK SLOWLY.10.
THE DESTRUCTION OF THE GOOD NAMEOF HIS FATHER BOTHERED HIM.11.
LATELY HE HAD HAS CONTROL OVER THESITUATION.12.
I NEED A WOMAN TO FIX THE SINK.13.
JOHN MET A WOMAN HE THOUGHT HELIKED.14.
THE WOMAN I SAW CAME FROM HERE,15.
IN THESE INSTANCES IT MAY BEDESIRABLE TO USE PHONEME CHARACTERSINSTEADOF TEXT CHARACTERS TOREPRESENT A WORD EACH TIME IT APPEARSON THE INPUT TEXT.16.
PHONEME CHARACTERS GIVE MORECONTROL OVER THE PARTICULAR SOUNDSTHAT ARE GENERATED.17.
THE MATERIALS REQUIRED ARE ONEKITE KIT.18.
PHONEMIC CHARACTERS CAN ALSO BEUSED TO HANDLE SYNTACTIC DATA SUCH ASTHE BOUNDARIES WHICH CAN IMPROVESPEECH QUALITY.19.
IT MAY BE DESIRABLE TO GIVE JOHN AHAND.20.
AFTER THESE QUESTIONS, A DETAILEDDESCRIPTION OF THE USE OF PHONEMESWILL BEPROVIDED IN CHAPTER 7.21.
THE ENGLISH THAT IS SPOKEN INAMERICA AT THE PRESENT DAY HASRETAINED A GOOD MANY CHARACTERISTICSOF EARL IER BRITISH ENGLISH THAT DO NOTSURVIVE IN BRITISH ENGLISH TODAY.22.
PHONEMIC CHARACTERS CAN ALSO BEUSED TO HANDLE SYNTACTIC DATA SUCH ASTHE LOCATION OF THE ENDS OF PHRASESWHICH CAN IMPROVE SPEECH QUALITY.23.
THE STUDENTS CONSIDERED THEASSUMPTION THAT A BREAK MIGHT OCCUR.24.
F INALLY YOU MUST ASSUME THAT YOURCIGARETTES WILL BOTHER THEPASSENGERS,25.
TRY TO GIVE THE NAMES OF THECHARACTERS TO JOHN,26.
I PREFER FOR HIM TO GIVE THE NAMESOF THE CHARACTERS TO JOHN.27.
I BELIEVE THOSE PEOPLE TO BEINTELLIGENT.28.
I PROMISED HIM THAT HE COULD COME.29.
THEY GAVE THE BOY A BOOK.30.
THEY GAVE HIM A BOOK.31.
THE 48-CHANNEL MODULE CAN HAVEONLY TWO DI-GROUPS BUT CAN HAVE UP TOFOUR POWER UNITS IF BOTH DI-GROUPS AREEQUIPPED WITH ECHO CANCELERS.32.
I TOLD HIM YESTERDAY TO CLEAN HISROOM.33.
MOVE THE POWER OPTION JUMPER PLUGSO THAT IT IS ADJACENT TO DI-GROUP ONEON PRINTED WIRING BOARD.34.
I WANT A LOT MORE COOKIES.35.
THE MINUS-SIGN PRONUNCIATION SWITCHIS IN THE MIDDLE.36.
HE ASKED THE CHILDREN TO FINISH THEJOB.37.
HE ARGUED THAT IT WAS IMPOSSIBLE.38.
IS A MAN AT THE DOOR.39.
A DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE USE OFPHONEMES IS PROVIDED IN CHAPTER 7.1,1 Fidditch failed here on the relative clause with a PP left edge.1530tO,g?~a')2.-.t1"1r~i::a.,?
v,,,~,.-10it)t~<o,..~g.r.,154"r"\[.-.Ooou,,.A..vILlZO..r.i -  f....A\[.-JA?,,,dooOoeio,,,~155
