COMMONSENSE METAPHYSICSAND LEX ICAL  SEMANTICSJ e r ry  R. Hobbs ,  Wi l l iam Croft ,  Todd Davies,Douglas  Edwards ,  and Kenneth  LawsArtif icial Intel l igence CenterSRI  In ternat iona l1 In t roduct ionIn the TACITUS project for using commonsense knowl-edge in the understanding of texts about mechanical de-vices and their failures, we have been developing variouscommonsense theories that are needed to mediate betweenthe way we talk about the behavior of such devices andcausal models of their operation.
Of central importance inthis effort is the axiomatization of what might be called"commonsense metaphysics".
This includes a number ofareas that figure in virtually every domain of discourse,such as scalar notions, granularity, time, space, material,physical objects, causality, functionality, force, and shape.Our approach to lexical semantics is then to construct coretheories of each of these areas, and then to define, or atleast characterize, a large number of lexical items in termsprovided by the core theories.
In the TACITUS system,processes for solving pragmatics problems posed by a textwill use the knowledge base consisting of these theories inconjunction with the logical forms of the sentences in thetext to produce an interpretation.
In this paper we donot stress these interpretation processes; this is another,important aspect of the TACITUS project, and it will bedescribed in subsequent papers.This work represents a convergence of research in lexicalsemantics in linguistics and efforts in AI to encode com-monsense knowledge.
Lexical semanticists over the yearshave developed formalisms of increasing adequacy for en-coding word meaning, progressing from simple sets of fea-tures (Katz and Fodor, 1963) to notations for predicate-argument structure (Lakoff, 1972; Miller and Johnson-Laird, 1976), but the early attempts till limited accessto world knowledge and assumed only very restricted sortsof processing.
Workers in computational linguistics intro-duced inference (Rieger, 1974; Schank, 1975) and othercomplex cognitive processes (Herskovits, 1982) into ourunderstanding of the role of word meaning.
Recently, lin-guists have given greater attention to the cognitive pro-cesses that would operate on their representations (e.g.,Talmy, 1983; Croft, 1986).
Independently, in AI an ef-fort arose to encode large amounts of commonsense knowl-edge (Hayes, 1979; Hobbs and Moore, 1985; Hobbs et al1985).
The research reported here represents a conver-gence of these various developments.
By developing coretheories of several fundamental phenomena nd defininglexical items within these theories, using the full powerof predicate calculus, we are able to cope with complex-ities of word meaning that have hitherto escaped lexicalsemanticists, within a framework that gives full scope tothe planning and reasoning processes that manipulate rep-resentations of word meaning.In constructing the core theories we are attempting toadhere to several methodological principles.I.
One should aim for characterization of concepts,rather than definition.
One cannot generally expect o findnecessary and sufficient conditions for a concept.
The mostwe can hope for is to find a number of necessary condi-tions and a number of sufficient conditions.
This amountsto saying that a great many predicates are primitive, butprimitives that are highly interrelated with the rest of theknowledge base.2.
One should determine the minimal structure neces-sary for a concept to make sense.
In efforts to axiomatizesome area, there are two positions one may take, exem-plified by set theory and by group theory.
In axiomatiz-ing set theory, one attempts to capture exactly some con-cept one has strong intuitions about.
If the axiomatizationturns out to have unexpected models, this exposes an in-adequacy.
In group theory, by contrast, one characterizesan abstract class of structures.
If there turn out to beunexpected models, this is a serendipitous discovery of anew phenomenon that we can reason about using an oldtheory.
The pervasive character of metaphor in naturallanguage discourse shows that our commonsense theoriesof the world ought to be much more like group theory thanset theory.
By seeking minimal structures in axiomatizingconcepts, we optimize the possibilities of using the theoriesin metaphorical and analogical contexts.
This principleis illustrated below in the section on regions.
One conse-quence of this principle is that our approach will seem moresyntactic than semantic.
We have concentrated more on231specifying axioms than on constructing models.
Our viewis that the chief role of models in our effort is for provingthe consistency and independence of sets of axioms, and forshowing their adequacy.
As an example of the last point,many of the spatial and temporal theories we constructare intended at least to have Euclidean space or the realnumbers as one model, and a subclass of graph-theoreticalstructures as other models.3.
A balance must be struck between attempting tocover all cases and aiming only for the prototypical cases.In general, we have tried to cover as many cases as pos-sible with an elegant axiomatization, in line with the twoprevious principles, but where the formalization begins tolook baroque, we assume that higher processes will suspendsome inferences in the marginal cases.
We assume that in-ferences will be drawn in a controlled fashion.
Thus, everyoutr~, highly context-dependent counterexample n ed notbe accounted for, and to a certain extent, definitions canbe geared specifically for a prototype.4.
Where competing ontologies uggest hemselves in adomain, one should attempt o construct a theory that ac-commodates both.
Rather than commit oneself to adopt-ing one set of primitives rather than another, one shouldshow how each set of primitives can be characterized interms of the other.
Generally, each of the ontologies isuseful for different purposes, and it is convenient to beable to appeal to both.
Our treatment of time illustratesthis.5.
The theories one constructs should be richer in axiomsthan in theorems.
In mathematics, one expects to statehalf a dozen axioms and prove dozens of theorems fromthem.
In encoding commonsense knowledge it seems to bejust the opposite.
The theorems we seek to prove on thebasis of these axioms are theorems about specific situationswhich are to be interpreted, in particular, theorems abouta text that the system is attempting to understand.6.
One should avoid falling into "black holes".
Thereare a few "mysterious" concepts which crop up repeatedlyin the formalization of commonsense metaphysics.
Amongthese are "relevant" (that is, relevant to the task at hand)and "normative" (or conforming to some norm or pattern).To insist upon giving a satisfactory analysis of these beforeusing them in analyzing other concepts i to cross the eventhorizon that separates lexical semantics from philosophy.On the other hand, our experience suggests that to avoidtheir use entirely is crippling; the lexical semantics of awide variety of other terms depends upon them.
Instead,we have decided to leave them minimally analyzed for themoment and use them without scruple in the analysis ofother commonsense concepts.
This approach will allow usto accumulate many examples of the use of these mysteri-ous concepts, and in the end, contribute to their success-fill analysis.
The use of these concepts appears below inthe discussions of the words "immediately", sample", and"operate".We chose as an initial target problem to encode the com-monsense knowledge that underlies the concept of "wear",as in a part of a device wearing out.
Our aim was to define"wear" in terms of predicates characterized elsewhere inthe knowledge base and to infer consequences of wear.
Forsomething to wear, we decided, is for it to lose impercepti-ble bits of material from its surface due to abrasive actionover time.
One goal,which we have not yet achieved, is tobe able to prove as a theorem that since the shape of a partof a mechanical device is often functional and since loss ofmaterial can result in a change of shape, wear of a part ofa device can result in the failure of the device as a whole.In addition, as we have proceded, we have characterized anumber of words found in a set of target texts, as it hasbecome possible.We are encoding the knowledge as axioms in, what isfor the most part a first-order logic, described in ttobbs(1985a), although quantification over predicates i some-times convenient.
In the formalism there is a nominaliza-tion operator " ' " for reifying events and conditions, asexpressed in the following axiom schema:(?x)p(x) - (3e)p'(e, x) A Exist(e)That is, p is true of x if and only if there is a condition eof p being true of z and e exists in the real world.In our implementation so far, we have been proving sim-ple theorems from our axioms using the CG5 theorem-prover developed by Mark Stickel (1982), but we are onlynow beginning to use the knowledge base in text process-ing.2 Requ i rements  on  Arguments  o fP red icatesThere is a notational convention used below that deservessome explanation.
It has frequently been noted that re-lational words in natural anguage can take only certaintypes of words as their arguments.
These are usually de-scribed as selectional constraints.
The same is true of pred-icates in our knowledge base.
They are expressed below byrules of the formp(x, y) : ~(x, ~)This means that for p even to make sense applied to x andy, it must be the case that r is true of x and y.
The logicalimport of this rule is that wherever there is an axiom ofthe form(Vx, y)p(x, y) ~ q(x, y)this is really to be read as(Vx, y)p(x,y) A r(x,y) D q(x,y)232The checking of selectional constraints, therefore, falls outas a by-product of other logical operations: the constraintr(z, y) must be verified if anything else is to be proven fromp(x, y).The simplest example of such an r(:L y) is a conjunctionof sort constraints rl (x) ^ re(y).
Our approach is a gener-alization of this, because much more complex requirementscan be placed on the arguments.
Consider, for example,the verb "range".
If z ranges from y to z, there must bea scale s that includes y and z, and z must be a set of en-tities that are located at various places on the scale: Thiscan be represented as follows:range(x, y, z) : (3 s)scate(e) ^  y G sAz  E e A set(x)A(Vu)\[u G z D (qv)v E s A at(u,v)\]3 The Knowledge Base3.1 Sets  and  Granu lar i tyAt the foundation of the knowledge base is an axiomatiza-tion of set theory.
It follows the standard Zermelo-Frankelapproach, except that there is no Axiom of Infinity.Since so many concepts used in discourse are grain-dependent, a theory of granularity is also fundamental (seeHobbs 1985b).
A grain is defined in terms of an indistin-guishability relation, which is reflexive and symmetric, butnot necessarily transitive.
One grain can be a refinementof another with the obvious definition.
The most refinedgrain is the identity grain, i.e., the one in which every twodistinct elements are distinguishable.
One possible rela-tionship between two grains, one of which is a refinementof the other, is what we call an ~Archimedean relation",after the Archimedean property of real numbers.
Intu-itively, if enough events occur that are imperceptible at thecoarser grain g2 but perceptible at the finer grain gl, thenthe aggregate will eventually be perceptible at the coarsergrain.
This is an important property in phenomena sub-ject to the Heap Paradox.
Wear, for instance, eventuallyhas significant consequences.3.2 ScalesA great many of the most common words in English havescales as their subject matter.
This includes many preposi-tions, the most common adverbs, comparatives, and manyabstract verbs.
When spatial vocabulary isused metaphor-ically, it is generally the scalar aspect of space that carriesover to the target domain.
A scale is defined as a set ofelements, together with a partial ordering and a granular-ity (or an indistinguishability relation).
The partial or-dering and the indistinguishability relation are consistentwith each other:(Vx, y ,z )x  < y A y~ z D x < z V z ,~ zIt is useful to have an adjacency relation between points ona scale, and there are a number of ways we could introduceit.
We could simply take it to be primitive; in a scalehaving a distance function, we could define two points tobe adjacent when the distance between them is less thansome ~; finally, we could define adjacency in terms of thegrain-size:(V x, y, e)adj(x, y, e) ---(3 z )z  ~ z ^ z ~ y ^ ~\[x  ~ y\],Two important possible properties of scales are connect-edness and denseness.
We can say that two elements of ascale are connected by a chain of adj relations:(v~, y, s )co .nected(z ,  y, e) -adj(x, y, e) V(3 z)adj(x, z, e) ^ connected(z, y e)A scale is connected (econneeted) if all pairs of elementsare connected.
A scale is dense if between any two pointsthere is a third point, until the two points are so closetogether that the grain-size won't let us tell what the situ-ation is.
Cranking up the magnification could well resolvethe continuous pace into a discrete set, as objects intoatoms.
(Ys)dense(s) =(Vz, y ,<)x  E s A y E s A order(<,s) A z < y(3 z)(~ < z ^ z < y)v(3z) (z  ~ z ^ z~y)This captures the commonsense notion of continuity.A subscale of a scale has as its elements a subset of theelements of the scale and has as its partial ordering and itsgrain the partial ordering and the grain of the scale.
(Vs,, <, ,..)order(<, e,) A grain(~, e,)(Vs~)\[subscate(ee, ,)= subset(sz, el) A order(<, ez) A grain(~, sz)\]An interval can be defined as a connected subseale:(V i) interval(i) - (3 s)ecale(s)A subseale(i, e) ^ econnected(i)The relations between time intervals that Allen andKautz (1985) have defined can be defined in a straight-forward manner in the approach presented here, appliedto intervals in general.A concept closely related to scales is that of a "cycle".This is a system which has a natural ordering locally butcontains a loop globally.
Examples include the color wheel,clock times, and geographical locations ordered by "eastof".
We have axiomatized cycles i~ terms of a ternarybetween relation, whose axioms parallel the axioms for apartial ordering.The figure-ground relationship is of fundamental impor-tance in language.
We encode this with the primitive pred-icate at.
The minimal structure that seems to be necessaryfor something to be a ground is that of a scale; hence, thisis a selectional constraint on the arguments of at.233at(z, y) : (B s)y E s ^ scale(s)At this point, we are already in a position to define somefairly complex words.
As an illustration, we give the ex-ample of "range" as in "x ranges from y to z":(Vz, y, z)range{x, y, z) -(3 s, s,, u,, u2)scale(s) ^  subscale(sl, s)^bottom(y, sl) ^ top(z, sl)Aul E x A at(ul,y)^u2 E z ^ at(u2,z)^(vu) I .
e ?
~ Ov)v  e ~, ^  at(u,v)lA very important scale is the linearly ordered scale ofnumbers.
We do not plan to reason axiomatically aboutnumbers, but it is useful in natural anguage processing tohave encoded a few facts about numbers.
For example, aset has a cardinality which is an element of the numberscale.Verticality is a concept hat would be most properly an-alyzed in the section on space, but it is a property thatmany other scales have acquired metaphorically, for what-ever reason.
The number scale is one of these.
Even in theabsence of an analysis of verticality, it is a useful propertyto have as a primitive in lexical semantics.The word "high" is a vague term that asserts an entity isin the upper region of some scale.
It requires that the scalebe a vertical one, such as the number scale.
The vertical-ity requirement distinguishes "high" from the more gen-eral term "very"; we can say "very hard" but not "highlyhard".
The phrase "highly planar" sounds all right be-cause the high register of "planar" suggests a quantifiable,scientific accuracy, whereas the low register of "fiat" makes"highly fiat" sound much worse.The test of any definition is whether it allows one to drawthe appropriate inferences.
In our target texts, the phrase"high usage" occurs.
Usage is a set of using events, and theverticality requirement on "high" forces us to coerce thephrase into "a high or large number of using events".
Com-bining this with an axiom that says tb~t the use of a me-chanical device involves the likelihood of abrasive vents,as defined below, and with the definition of "wear" in termsof abrasive vents, we should be able to conclude the like-lihood of wear.3.3 T ime:  Two Onto log iesThere are two possible ontologies for time.
In the first, theone most acceptable to the mathematically minded, thereis a time line, which is a scale having some topologicalstructure.
We can stipulate the time line to be linearlyordered (although it is not in approaches that build ig-norance of relative times into the representation of time(e.g., Hobbs, 1974) nor in approaches using branching fu-tures (e.g., McDermott, 1985)), and we can stipulate it tobe dense (although it is not in the situation calculus).
Wetake before to be the ordering on the time line:(V ti, t2)be f ore(t~, tz) -(3 T, <)Time-line(T)  ^  order(<, T)Atl ET  A t2ET  A tl <t2We allow both instants and intervals of time.
Most eventsoccur at some instant or during some interval.
In thisapproach, nearly every predicate takes a time argument.In the second ontology, the one that seems to be moredeeply rooted in language, the world consists of a largenumber of more or less independent processes, or histories,or sequences ofevents.
There is a primitive relation changebetween conditions.
Thus,change(el, ez) ^  p'(el, x) A q'(ez, x)says that there is a change from the condition el of p beingtrue of z to the condition e2 of q being true of x.The time line in this ontology is then an artificial con-struct, a regular sequence of imagined abstract events--think of them as ticks of a clock in the National Bureauof Standards- - to  which other events can be related.
Thechange ontology seems to correspond to the way we ex-perience the world.
We recognize relations of causality,change of state, and copresence among events and condi-tions.
When events are not related in these ways, judg-ments of relative time must be mediated by copresencerelations between the events and events on a clock andchange of state relations on the clock.The predicate change possesses a limited transitivity.There has been a change from Reagan being an actor toReagan being President, even though he was governor inbetween.
But we probably do not want to say there hasbeen a change from Reagan being an actor to MargaretThatcher being Prime Minister, even though the secondcomes after the first.We can say that times, viewed in this ontology as events,always have a change relation between them.
(Vtl, tz)before(tl, tz) D change(tl, t2)The predicate change is related to before by the axiom(Vel, ez)change(el, e2) D(3 tl, tz)at(el, t~)A at(e2, t2) A before(q, t2)This does not allow us to derive change of state from tem-poral succession.
For this, we need axioms of the form(Vet, e:, t,, t2, z)p'(el, z) ^ at(e,, t,)^q'(e2, x) A at(ez, tz) ^  before(q, tz)D change(el, ez)That is, if z is p at time tl and q at a later time t2, thenthere has been a change of state from one to the other.Time arguments in predications can be viewed as abbrevi-ations:(Vx, t)p(z,t) =- (qe)p'(e,x) ^  at(e,t)234The word "move", or the predicate move, (as in "xmoves from y to z ' )  can then be defined equivalently interms of change(Vx, y, z)move(x, y, z) -(3 el, e2)change(el , e2)A at'(e,, z, y) A at'(e2, x, z)or in terms of the time line(V x, y, z)move(x, y, z) =--(3 tl, t2)at(x, y, tl) A at(x, z, 12) A before(ti, t2)In English and apparently all other natural languages,both ontologies are represented in the lexicon.
The timeline ontology is found in clock and calendar terms, tensesystems of verbs, and in the deictic temporal locatives uchas "yesterday", today", "tomorrow", "last night", and soon.
The change ontology is exhibited in most verbs, andin temporal clausal connectives.
The universal presenceof both classes of lexical items and grammatical mark-ers in natural languages requires a theory which can ac-commodate both ontologies, illustrating the importance ofmethodological principle 4.Among temporal connectives, the word "while" presentsinteresting problems.
In "el while e~', e2 must be an eventoccurring over a time interval; el must be an event andmay occur either at a point or over an interval.
One's firstguess is that the point or interval for el must be includedin the interval for e2.
However, there are cases, such asorIt rained while I was in Philadelphia.The electricity should be off while the switch isbeing repaired.which suggest he reading "ez is included in el".
We cameto the conclusion that one can infer no more than thatel and ez overlap, and any tighter constraints result fromimplicatures from background knowledge.The word "immediately" also presents a number of prob-lems.
It requires its argument e to be an ordering relationbetween two entities x and y on some scale s.immediate(e) : (3 x, y, s)less-than'(e, x y, s)It is not clear what the constraints on the scale are.
Tem-poral and spatial scales are okay, as in "immediately afterthe alarm" and "immediately to the left", but the size scaleisn't:* John is immediately larger than Bill.Etymologically, it means that there are no intermediateentities between x and y on s. Thus,(V e, x, y, s)immediate(e) A less-than'(e, x, y, s)D -.
(3 z)less-than(x, z s) A less-than(z, y, s)\[5A/.-Figure 1: The simplest space.However, this will only work if we restrict z to be a relevantentity.
For example, in the sentenceWe disengaged the compressor immediately afterthe alarm.the implication is that no event that could damage thecompressor occurred between the alarm and the disengage-ment, since the text is about equipment failure.3.4  Spaces  and  D imens ion :  The  Min imalS t ructureThe notion of dimension has been made precise in linear al-gebra.
Since the concept of a region is used metaphoricallyas well as in the spatial sense, however, we were concernedto determine the minimal structure that a system requiresfor it to make sense to call it a space of more than onedimension.
For a two-dimensional space, l~re  must be ascale, or partial ordering, for each dimension.
Moreover,the two scales must be independent, in that the order ofelements on one scale can not be determined from theirorder on the other.
Formally,(Vsp)spaee(sp) =--(3 sl, s2, <1, <2)scalel(sl, sp) A scalez(s2, sp)^ order(<1, sl) h order(<2, sz)A(3z) (3y, ) (z  <, y, A z <2 Y,)A (3 ~)(z  <, y~ A y~ <2 z)Note that this does not allow <2 to be simply the reverse of<1.
An unsurprising consequence of this definition is thatthe minimal example of a two-dimensional space consistsof three points {three points determine a plane), e.g., thepoints A, B, and C, whereA<IB ,  A<IC ,  C<2A,  A<2B.This is illustrated in Figure 1.The dimensional scales are apparently found in all nat-ural languages in relevant domains.
The familiar three-dimensional space of common sense is defined by the threescale pairs "up-down", "front-back", and "left-right"; thetwo-dimensional p ane of the commonsense conception ofthe earth's surface is represented by the two scale pairs"north-south" and "east-west".235The simplest, although not the only, way to define ad-jacency in the space is as adjacency on both scales:(Vz, y, sp)adi(z , y, sp) =-(3 s~, s2)scalel(sl, sp) A scale2(s~, sp)Aadj(x,y, sl) A adj(x,y, s2)A region is a subset of a space.
The surface and interior ofa region can be defined in terms of adjacency, in a mannerparalleling the definition of a boundary in point-set opol-ogy.
In the following, s is the boundary or surface of a two-or three-dimensional region r embedded in a space sp.
(Vs, r)surf  ace(s, r, sp) =__(Vz )z~r~\ [zes  =(Ey)(y e sp A -~(y e r) ^ adi(z, y, sp))\]Finally, we can define the notion of "contact" in terms ofpoints in different regions being adjacent.
(Vrl, r~, sp)contact(rl , r2, sp) -disjoint(rl, r2) A(Ez, y)(z e r, Aye  r2 A adj(z,y, sp))By picking the scales and defining adjacency right, wecan talk about points of contact between communicationalnetworks, systems of knowledge, and other metaphoricaldomains.
By picking the scales to be the real line anddefining adjacency in terms of e-neighborhoods, weget Eu-clidean space and can talk about contact between physicalobjects.3.5  Mater ia lPhysical objects and materials must be distinguished, justas they are apparently distinguished in every natural an-guage, by means of the count noun - mass noun distinc-tion.
A physical object is not a bit of material, but ratheris comprised of a bit of material at any given time.
Thus,rivers and human bodies are physical objects, even thoughtheir material constitution changes over time.
This distinc-tion also allows us to talk about an object losing materialthrough wear and still being the same object.We will say that an entity b is a bit of material by meansof the expression material(b).
Bits of material are char-acterized by both extension and cohesion.
The primitivepredication occupies(b, r, t} encodes extension, saying thata bit of material boccupies a region r at time t. The topol-ogy of a bit of material is then parasitic on the topology ofthe region it occupies.
A part bl of a bit of material b is abit of material whose occupied region is always a subregionof the region occupied by b. Point-like particles (particle}are defined in terms of points in the occupied region, dis-joint bits {disjointbit) in terms of disjointness of regions,and contact between bits in terms of contact between theirregions.
We can then state as follows the Principle of Non-Joint-Occupancy that two bits of material cannot occupythe same place at the same time:(Vb~, b2)(disjointbit(b~, bz)D (Vx, y, bs, b4)interior(bs, b~)A interior(b4, bz) ^  particle(z, bs)A particle(y, b4)D ~(Ez)(at(z, z) ^ at(y, z))At some future point in our work, this may emerge as aconsequence of a richer theory of cohesion and force.The cohesion of materials is also a primitive property,for we must distinguish between a bump on the surface ofan object and a chip merely lying on the surface.
Cohesiondepends on a primitive relation bond between particles ofmaterial, paralleling the role of adj in regions.
The relationattached is defined as the transitive closure of bond.
Atopology of cohesion is built up in a manner analogousto the topology of regions.
In addition, we have encodedthe relation that bond bears to motion, i.e.
that bondedbits remain adjacent and that one moves when the otherdoes, and the relation of bond to force, i.e.
that there is acharacteristic force that breaks a bond in a given material.Different materials react in different ways to forces ofvarious strengths.
Materials subjected to force exhibit orfail to exhibit several invariance properties, proposed bylinger (1985).
If the material is shape-invariant with re-spect to a particular force, its shape remains the same.If it is topologically invariant, particles that are adjacentremain adjacent.
Shape invariance implies topological in-variance.
Subject to forces of a certain strength or de-gree dl, a material ceases being shape-invariant.
At aforce of strength dz _> dl, it ceases being topologicallyinvariant, and at a force of strength ds >_ dz, it sim-ply breaks.
Metals exhibit the full range of possibilities,that is, 0 < dl < d2 < ds < co. For forces of strengthd < dr, the material is "hard"; for forces of strength dwhere d~ < d < d~, i t  is "flexible"; for forces of strengthd where d2 < d < ds, it is "malleable".
Words such as"ductile" and "elastic" can be defined in terms of this vo-cabulary, together with predicates about the geometry ofthe bit of material.
Words such as "brittle" (all = d2 = ds)and "fluid" (d2 = 0, d3 = ~)  can also be defined in theseterms.
While we should not expect to be able to definevarious material terms, like "metal" and "ceramic", wecan certainly characterize many of their properties withthis vocabulary.Because of its invariance properties, material interactswith containment and motion.
The word "clog" illustratesthis.
The predicate clog is a three-place relation: z clogsy against the flow of z.
It is the obstruction by z of z'smotion through y, but with the selectional restriction thatz must be something that can flow, such as a liquid, gas,or powder.
If a rope is passing through a hole in a board,and a knot in the rope prevents it from going through, wedo not say that the hole is clogged.
On the other hand,there do not seem to be any selectional constraints on z.In particular, x can be identical with z: glue, sand, ormolasses can clog a passageway against its own flow.
We236can speak of clogging where the obstruction of flow is notcomplete, but it must be thought of as "nearly" complete.3.6  Other  Domains3.6.1 Causal Connect ionAttachment within materials is one variety of causal con-nection.
In general, if two entities x and y are causallyconnected with respect o some behavior p of x, then when-ever p happens to x, there is some corresponding behaviorq that happens to y.
In the case of attachment, p and qare both move.
A particularly common variety of causalconnection between two entities is one mediated by the mo-tion of a third entity from one to the other.
(This mightbe called a "vector boson" connection.)
Photons medi-ating the connection between the sun and our eyes, raindrops connecting a state of the clouds with the wetness ofour skin and clothes, a virus being transmitted from oneperson to another, and utterances passing between peo-ple are all examples of such causal connections.
Barriers,openings, and penetration are all with respect o paths ofcausal connection.3.6.2 ForceThe concept of "force" is axiomatized, in a way consistentwith Talmy's treatment (1985), in terms of the predica-tions force(a, b, dz) and resist(b, a, d2)--a forces against bwith strength dl and b resists a's action with strength d2.We can infer motion from facts about relative strength.This treatment can also be specialized to Newtonian force,where we have not merely movement, but acceleration.
Inaddition, in spaces in which orientation is defined, forcescan have an orientation, and a version of the Parallelogramof Forces Law can be encoded.
Finally, force interacts withshape in ways characterized by words like "stretch", "com-press", "bend", "twist", and "shear".3.6.3 Systems and Functional ityAn important concept is the notion of a "system", whichis a set of entities, a set of their properties, and a set ofrelations among them.
A common kind of system is onein which the entities are events and conditions and therelations are causal and enabling relations.
A mechanicaldevice can be described as such a system--in a sense, interms of the plan it executes in its operation.
The functionof various parts and of conditions of those parts is then therole they play in this system, or plan.The intransitive sense of "operate", as inThe diesel was operating.involves systems and functionality.
If an entity x oper-ates, then there must be a larger system s of which x isa part.
The entity x itself is a system with parts.
Theseparts undergo normative state changes, thereby causing xto undergo normative state changes, thereby causing x toproduce an effect with a normative function in the largersystem s. The concept of "normative" is discussed below.3.6.4 ShapeWe have been approaching the problem of characterizingshape from a number of different angles.
The classicaltreatment of shape is via the notion of "similarity" in Eu-clidean geometry, and in Hilbert's formal reconstruction fEuclidean geometry (Hilbert, 1902) the key primitive con-cept seems to be that of "congruent angles".
Therefore,we first sought to develop a theory of "orientation".
Theshape of an object can then be characterized in terms ofchanges in orientation of a tangent as one moves about onthe surface of the object, as is done in vision research (e.g.,Zahn and Roskies, 1972).
In all of this, since "shape" canbe used loosely and metaphorically, one question we areasking is whether some minimal, abstract structure can befound in which the notion of "shape" makes sense.
Con-sider, for instance, a graph in which one scale is discrete,or even unordered.
Accordingly, we have been examininga number of examples, asking when it seems right ~.o saytwo structures have different shapes.We have also examined the interactions of shape andfunctionality (cf.
Davis, 1984).
What seems to be cru-cial is how the shape of an obstacle constrains the motionof a substance or of an object of a particular shape (cf.Shoham, 1985).
Thus, a funnel concentrates the flow of aliquid, and similarly, a wedge concentrates force.
A boxpushed against a ridge in the floor will topple, and a wheelis a limiting case of continuous toppling.3.7  H i t t ing ,  Abras ion ,  Wear ,  and  Re-la ted  ConceptsFor x to hit y is for x to move into contact with y withsome force.The basic scenario for an abrasive vent is that there isan impinging bit of material m which hits an object o andby doing so removes a pointlike bit of material b0 from thesurface of o:abr-event'(e, m, o, b0) : material(m)A topologieally.invariant(o)(re, m, o, bo)abr-event'(e, m, o, bo) =---(3 t, b, s, bo, el, e,, es)at(e, t)^ consists-of(o, b, t) ^ surface(s, b)^ particle(bo, s) ^ change'(e, el, e~)^ attached'(el, bo, b) ^ not'(e2, el)A cause(es, e) ^ hit'(es, m, bo)After the abrasive vent, the pointlike bit b0 is no longer apart of the object o:237(re, m, o, bo, el, e2, t2)abr-event'(e, m o, b0)A change'(e, el, ez) ^  attaehed'(el, bo, b)^ not'(e2, el) A at(ez, tz)A consists-of(o, bz, tz)D -~part(bo, bz)It is necessary to state this explicitly since objects and bitsof material can be discontinuous.An abrasion is a large number of abrasive vents widelydistributed through some nonpointlike region on the sur-face of an object:(Ve, m, o}abrade'(e, m, o) -( : lbs) \ [ (?e, ) \ [e ,  e e ::)(3 bo)bo e bs ^ abr-evenr(el, m, o, bo)\]^(Vb, s,t)\[at(e,t)^ consists-of(o, b, t) A surface(s, b)D (B r)subregion(r, s)A widely-distributed(bs, r)\]\]Wear can occur by means of a large collection of abrasiveevents distributed over time as well as space (so that theremay be no time at which enough abrasive vents occur tocount as an abrasion).
Thus, the link between wear andabrasion is via the common notion of abrasive vents, notvia a definition of wear in terms of abrasion.
(re,  m, o)wear'(e, z, o) =--(3bs)(VeO\[el E e D(3 b0}b0 E bs) A abr-event'(el, m, o, b0)\]A (3 i)\[interval(i) A widely-distributed(e, i)\]The concept "widely distributed" concerns ystems.
Ifz is distributed in y, then y is a system and z is a setof entities which are located at components of y.
For thedistribution to be wide, most of the elements of a partitionof y determined independently of the distribution mustcontain components which have elements of x at them.The word "w~ar" is one of a large class of other eventsinvolving cumulative, gradual oss of material - events de-scribed by words like "chip", "corrode", "file", "erode","rub", "sand", "grind", "weather", "rust", "tarnish", "eataway", "rot", and "decay".
All of these lexical items cannow be defined as variations on the definition of "wear",since we have built up the axiomatizations underlying"wear".
We are now in a position to characterize the en-tire class.
We will illustrate this by defining two differenttypes of variants of "wear" - "chip" and "corrode".
"Chip" differs from "wear" in three ways: the bit ofmaterial removed in one abrasive vent is larger {it neednot be point-like}, it need not happen because of a mate-rial hitting against he object, and "chip" does not require(though it does permit} a large collection of such events:one can say that some object is chipped if there is onlyone chip in it.
Thus, we slightly alter the definition ofabr-event o accommodate hese changes:(re, m, o, bo)chip'(e, m, o, bo) ----(3 t, b, s, b0, el, e2, es)at(e, t)A consists-of(o, b,t) A surface(s, b)Apart(bo, s) A change'(e, el, ez)A attached'(e~, bo, b) A not'(e2, el)"Corrode" differs from "wear" in that the bit of materialis chemically transformed as well as being detached by thecontact event; in fact, in some way the chemical transfor-mation causes the detachment.
This can be captured byadding a condition to the abrasive vent which renders ita (single} corrode event:corrode-event(m, o, bo) : f luid(m)^ contact(m, bo)(Ve, m, o, bo)corrode-event'(e, m, o, bo) =(3 t, b, s, bo, el, e2, es)at(e, t)^ consists-of(o, b,t) ^ surface(s, b}^ particle(bo, s) ^ change'(e, el, ez)^ attached'(el, bo, b) ^ not'(e2, el )^ cause(e3, e) A chemical-change'(es, m, bo)"Corrode" itself may be defined in a parallel fashion to"wear", substituting corrode-event for abr-event.All of this suggests the generalization that abrasiveevents, chipping and corrode events all detach the bit  inquestion, and that we may describe all of these as detach-ing events.
We can then generalize the above axiom aboutabrasive vents resulting in loss of material to the followingaxiom about detaching:(re, m, o, bo, bz, el, ez, tz)detach'(e, m, o, b0)^ change'(e, el, ez) ^  attached'(el, bo, b)^not'(e2, el) A at(ez, tz)A consists-of(o, bz, tz)D ~(part(bo, b2))4 Re levance  and the Normat iveMany of the concepts we are investigating have driven usinexorably to the problems of what is meant by "relevant"and by "normative".
We do not pretend to have solvedthese problems.
But for each of these concepts we do havethe beginnings of an account hat can play a role in anal-ysis, if not yet in implementation.Our view of relevance, briefly stated, is that somethingis relevant o some goal if it is a part of a plan to achievethat goal.
\[A formal treatment of a similar view is given inDavies and Russell, 1986.)
We can illustrate this with anexample involving the word "sample".
If a bit of materialz is a sample of another bit of material y, then x is a partof y, and moreover, there are relevant properties p and qsuch that it is believed that if p is true of x then q is trueof y.
That is, looking at the properties of the sample tellsus something important about the properties of the whole.Frequently, p and q are the same property.
In our targettexts, the following sentence occurs:238We retained an oil sample for future inspection.The oil in the sample is a part of the total lube oil in thelube oil system, and it is believed that a property of thesample, such as "contaminated with metal particles", willbe true of all of the lube oil as well, and that this willgive information about possible wear on the bearings.
It istherefore relevant o the goal of maintaining the machineryin good working order.We have arrived at the following provisional account ofwhat it means to be "normative".
For an entity to exhibita normative condition or behavior, it must first of all be acomponent of a larger system.
This system has structurein the form of relations among its components.
A pat-tern is a property of the system, namely, the property ofa subset of these stuctural relations holding.
A norm is apattern which is established either by conventional stipula-tion or by statistical regularity.
An entity is behaving in anormative fashion if it is a component of a system and in-stantiates a norm within that system.
The word "operate"given above illustrates this.
When we say that an engineis operating, we have in mind a larger system, the devicethe engine drives, to which the engine may bear variouspossible relations.
A subset of these relations is stipulatedto be the norm--the way it is supposed to work.
We sayit is operating when it is instantiating this norm.5 Conc lus ionThe research we have been engaged in has forced us to ex-plicate a complex set of commonsense concepts.
Since wehave done it in as general a fashion as possible, we mayexpect that it will be possible to axiomatize a large num-ber of other areas, including areas unrelated to mechanicaldevices, building on this foundation.
The very fact that wehave been able to characterize words as diverse as "range","immediately", brittle", "operate" and "wear" shows thepromise of this approach.AcknowledgementsThe research reported here was funded by the Defense Ad-vanced Research Projects Agency under Omce of NavalResearch contract N00014-85-C-0013.
It builds on worksupported by NIH Grant LM03611 from the National Li-brary of Medicine, by Grant IST-8209346 from the Na-tional Science Foundation, and by a gift from the SystemsDevelopment Foundation.ReferencesIll Allen, James F., and Henry A. Kautz.
1985.
"A modelof naive temporal reasoning."
Formal Theories of theCommonsense World, ed.
by Jerry R. Hobbs and RobertC.
Moore, Ablex Publishing Corp., 251-268.\[2\] Croft, William.
1986.
Categories and Relations in Syn-tax: The Clause-Level Organization of Information.Ph.D.
dissertation, Department of Linguistics, StanfordUniversity.\[3\] Davies, Todd R., and Stuart J. Russell.
1986.
"A logi-cal approach to reasoning by analogy."
Submitted to theAAAI-86 Fifth National Conference on Artificial Intel-ligence, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.\[4\] Davis, Ernest.
1984.
"Shape and Function of Solid Ob-jects: Some Examples."
Computer Science TechnicalReport 137, New York University.
October 1984.\[5\] Hager, Greg.
1985.
"Naive physics of materials: A re-con mission."
In Commonsense Summer."
Final Report,Report No.
CSLI-85-35, Center for the Study of Lan-guage and Information, Stanford University.\[6\] Hayes, Patrick J.
1979.
"Naive physics manifesto."
Ex-pert Systems in the Micro-electronic Age, ed.
by DonaldMichie, Edinburgh University Press, pp.
242-270.\[7\] Herskovits, Annette.
1982.
Space and the Prepositionsin English: Regularities and Irregularities in a ComplexDomain.
Ph.D. dissertation, Department of Linguistics,Stanford University.\[8\] Hilbert, David.
1902.
The Foundatiov~ of Geometry.The Open Court Publishing Company.\[9\] Hobbs, Jerry R. 1974.
"A Model for Natural LanguageSemantics, Part I: The Model."
Research Report #36,Department of Computer Science, Yale University.
Oc-tober 1974.\[10\] Hobbs, Jerry R. 1985a.
"Ontological promiscuity.
"Proceedings, 23rd Annual Meeting of the Association forComputational Linguistics, pp.
61-69.\[11\] Hobbs, Jerry R.
1985b."Granularity."
Proceedings ofthe Ninth International Joint Conference on ArtificialIntelligence, Los Angeles, California, August 1985, 432-435.\[12\] Hobbs, Jerry R. and Robert C. Moore, eds.
1985.
For-real Theories of the Commonsense World, Ablex Pub-lishing Corp.\[13\] Hobbs, Jerry R. et al 1985.
Commonsense Summer:Final Report, Report No.
CSLI-85-35, Center for theStudy of Language and Information, Stanford Univer-sity.\[14\] Katz, Jerrold J. and Jerry A. Fodor.
1963.
"Tile stru-ture of a semantic theory."
Language, Vol.
39 (April-June 1963), 170-210.239\[15\] Lakoff, G. 1972.
"Linguistics and natural ogic".
Se-mantics of Natural Language, ed.
by Donald Davidsonand Gilbert Harman, 545-665.\[16\] McDermott, Drew.
1985.
"Reasoning about plans.
"Formal Theories of the Commonsense World, ed.
byJerry R. Hobbs and Robert C. Moore, Ablex PublishingCorp., 269-318.\[17\] Miller, George A. and Philip N. Johnson-Laird.
1976.Language and Pereeption, Belknap Press.\[18\] Rieger, Charles J.
1974.
"Conceptual memory: A the-ory and computer program for processing and meaningcontent of natural language utterances."
Stanford AIM-233, Department ofComputer Science, Stanford Univer-sity.\[19\] Schank, Roger.
1975.
Conceptual Information Pro-cessing.
Elsevier Publishing Company.\[20\] Shoham, Yoav.
1985.
"Naive kinematics: Two aspectsof shape."
In Commonsense Summer: Final Report, Re-port No.
CSLI-85-35, Center for the Study of Languageand Information, Stanford University.\[21\] Stickel, M.E.
1982.
"A nonclausal connection-graphresolution theorem-proving program."
Proceedings of theAAAI-82 National Conference on Artificial Intelligence,Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, 229-233.\[22\] Talmy, Leonard.
1983.
"How language structuresspace."
Spatial Orientation: Theory, Research, and Ap-plication, ed.
by Herbert Pick and Linda Acredolo,Plenum Press.\[23\] Talmy, Leonard.
1985.
"Force dynamics in lan-guage and thought."
Proceedings from the Parasessionon Causatives and Agentivity, 21st Regional Meeting,Chicago Linguistic Society, ed.
by William H. Eilfort,Paul D. Kroeber, and Kareu L. Peterson.\[24\] Zahn, C. T., and R. Z. Roskies.
1972.
"Fourier de-scriptors for plane closed curves."
IEEE Transactionson Computers, Vol.
C-21, No.
3, 269-281.
March 1972.240
