The detect ion  and  representat iono f  ambigu i t ies  o f  in tens ion  and  descr ip t ionBrenda Fawcett and Graeme HirstDepartment of Computer ScienceUniversity of TorontoToronto, OntarioCANADA M5S 1A4Abst rac tAmbiguities related to intension and their consequentinference failures are a diverse group, both syntacti-cally and semantically.
One particular kind of ambi-guity that has received little attention so far iswhether it is the speaker or the third party to whoma description in an opaque third-party attitudereport should be attributed.
The different readingslead to different inferences in a system modeling thebeliefs of external agents.We propose that a unified approach to therepresentation of the alternative readings ofintension-related ambiguities can be based on thenotion of a descriptor that is evaluated with respectto intensionality, the beliefs of agents, and a time ofapplication.
We describe such a representation, builton a standard modal logic, and show how it may beused in conjunction with a knowledge base of back-ground assumptions to license restricted substitutionof equals in opaque contexts.1.
In t roduct ionCertain problems of ambiguity and inference failurein opaque contexts are well known, opaque contextsbeing those in which an expression can denote itsintension or underlying concept rather than any par-ticular extension or instance.
For example, (1)admits two readings:(1) Nadia is advertising for a penguin with whom shecould have a long-term meaningful relationship.On the transparent (or extensional or de re) reading,there is some particular penguin that Nadia is after:(2) Nudia is advertising for a penguin with whom shecould have a long-term meaningful relationship,whom she met at a singles bar last week and fellmadly in love with, but lost the phone number of.On the opaque (or intensional or de dicto) reading,Nadia wants any entity that meets her criteria:(3) Nadia is advertising for any penguin with whomshe could have a long-term meaningful relation-ship.On this reading, the rule of existential generalizationfails; that is, we cannot infer from (3), as we couldfrom (2), that:(4) There exists a penguin with whom Nudia couldhave a long-term meaningful relationshipAnother rule of inference that fails in opaque con-texts is substitution of equals; (5) and (6) do not per-mit the conclusion (7):(5) Nadia believes that the number of penguins cam-paigning for Greenpeace is twenty-two.
(6) The number of penguins campaigning for Green-peace is forty-eight.
(7) =/~ Therefore, Nadia believes that forty-eight istwenty-two.Although these facts are familiar, little researchhas been done on how a practical NLU system candetect and resolve intensional ambiguities (which canoccur in many constructions besides the 'standard'examples; see Fodor 1980, Fawcett  1985), and con-trol its inference accordingly.
The same is true ofcertain other complications of opaque contexts thatare of special relevance to systems that use explicitrepresentations of knowledge and belief.
In particu-lar, the interaction between intensional ambiguities192and the beliefs of agents has not been studied.
Thepresent work is a first step towards rectifying this.2.
A t t r ibut ing  descr ip t ionsPrevious linguistic systems that dealt with opaquecontexts, such as that  of Montague (1973), havetaken a God's-eye view, in the sense that  the speakerand listener are assumed to have perfect knowledge,as are, in certain ways, the people of whom theyspeak.
No account is taken of the limits of theknowledge or beliefs of the agents involved.To see that beliefs are a complicating factor, con-sider the following sentence, usually considered to betwo ways ambiguous - -  transparent or opaque:(8) Nadia wants a dog like Ross's.These ambiguities, however, cross with an ambiguityas to which agent the description a dog like Ross's isto be attr ibuted: to the speaker, or to Nadia (theagent of the verb of the sentence).
This gives a totalof four possible readings.
To see the four cases, con-sider the following situations, all of which can besummarized by (8):(9) Transparent reading, agent's description:Nadia sees a dog in the pet store window.
"I'dlike that dog," she says, "It's just like Ross's.
"The speaker of (8), who need not be familiar withRoss's dog, reports this.
(10) Transparent reading, speaker's description:Nadia sees an animal in the pet store window.
"I'd like that," she says.
Nadia is not aware ofit, but the animal is a dog just like the one Rossowns.
The speaker of (8), however, knows Ross'sdog (and believes that the listener also does).
(11) Opaque reading, agent's description:Nadia feels that her life will be incomplete untilshe obtains a dog.
"And the dog that would beperfect for me," she says, "Is one just like the onethat Ross has."
The speaker of (8), not neces-sarily familiar with Ross's dog, reports this.
(12) Opaque reading, speaker's description:Nadia feels that her life will be incomplete untilshe obtains a pet.
"And the pet that would beperfect for me," she says, "Is a big white shaggydog, with hair over its eyes."
N~lia is not awareof it, but Ross owns a dog just like the one shedesires.
The speaker of (8), however, knowsRoss's dog (and believes that the listener alsodoes).The agent's-description readings permit the inferencethat  Nadia believes that she (either intensionally orextensionally) wants a dog like Ross's; the otherreadings do not.
Making the distinction is thus cru-cial for any system that reasons about the beliefs ofother agents, such systems being an area of muchcurrent concern in artificial intelligence (e.g.,Levesque 1983, Fagin and Halpern 1985).Another complicating factor is the time at whicha description is to be applied.
The above readingsassumed that  this was the time of the utterance.The intensional readings, however could be referringto the dog that  Ross will get or (not included in theexamples below) once had:(13) Opaque reading, agent's description, future appli-cation:Nadia has heard that Ross will buy a dog.
Want-ing one herself, and trusting Ross's taste in can-ines, she resolves to buy whatever kind he buys.
(14) Opaque reading, speaker's description, futureapplic atio n:Nadia finds English sheepdogs attractive, butnone axe available.
She therefore intends to pur-chase some other suitably sized dog and spendher weekend gluing long shaggy hair onto it.Nadia is not aware of it, but Ross owns a dogjust like the one she wants to end up with.
Thespeaker, knowing Ross's dog, can describe Nadia'sdesire as that of having an object that will atsome future time be describable as a dog likeRoss's.The description in an intensional reading may alsobe used to refer to different entities at differenttimes.
(15) Opaque reading, agent's description, repeatedapplication:Ross buys a new type of dog every year or so.Desperately wanting to keep up with caninefashion, Nadia declares her intent to copy him.Whatever dog Ross has at any given time, Nadiawants to have the same kind.We have not been able to find an example in whichrepeated application of the speaker's descriptiongives a natural reading.
Extensional readings alwaysseem to refer to the present time.
2 Thus, there are at2It may be objected that an extensional future-application readingis also possible.
This would be like (14), except hat Nadia hassome particular dog in mind for the cosmetic alterations.
If we al-low Nadia to use this method repeatedly upon a particular dog,then an extensional reading corresponding to (15) would be193least seven readings for Nadia wants a dog likeRoss  's.
33.
Other  in tens iona l  ambigu i t ies  andin ference  fa i lu resThere are other  k inds of intens ion-re lated inferencefai lures besides those ment ioned in the previous sec-t ions.
For  example,  some opaque contexts forbidinferences from postmodi f ier  deletion, while otherspermi t  it.
Both readings of (16) entai l  the lessspecific (17) (which preserves the ambigu i ty  of (16)):(16) Nadia is advertising for a penguin that she hasn'talready met.
(17) Nudia is advertising for a penguin.However,  the same cannot  be done with (18):(18) Nadia would hate for there to be a penguin thatshe hasn't already met.
(19) =\]~Nazlia would hate for there to be a penguin.
4The examples above have all involved expl ic it  orimpl ic i t  propos i t iona l  a t t i tudes  and such contexts areapparent ly  necessary for ambigui t ies  of a t t r ibut ion  ofdescr ipt ion and the associated possible inferencefai lure and for problems of postmodi f ier  deletion.However ,  there are many other  k inds of context  inwhich other  intens ion-re lated ambigui t ies  and infer-ence fai lures can occur.
For  example,  existent ia lgeneral izat ion can also fail in contexts of s imi lar i tyand possibi l i ty:(20) Nadia is dressed like a creature from outer space.
(21) =~There is a creature from outer space whomderived.
That is, Nadia wants her particular dog to once or re-peatedly become like Ross's dog.
However, we don't see thesereadings as distinct from (14) and (15); Nadia's desire is clearly to-wards the goal of having a dog that matches a particular descrip-tion, rather than towards that of owning a particular dog.3Hofstadter, Clossman, and Meredith (1982) analyze a similar sen-tence for the case where the speaker and the agent are the same, Iwant the fastest car in the world, and derive five readings wherewe predict four.
However, their two extensional readings areidentical in our analysis, as they differ only in how many separatedescriptions the agent has for the entity.4This example is based on one of Fodor's (1980: 188).
Fodorclaims that postmodifier deletion is never valid in an opaque con-text; as example (17) shows, this claim is too strong.
The problemin (19) seems to be that would hate means wants not, and the dele-tion is invalid in the scope of a negation.Nadia is dressed like.
(22) It is possible that a creature from outer spacecould interrupt your lecture at the most incon-venient moment.
(23) =/~ There is a creature from outer space who couldpossibly interrupt your lecture at the most incon-venient moment.The k ind of semant ic  i r regular i t ies that  we arediscussing are thus found in a large and syntact ica l lydiverse set of l inguist ic constructs.
(See Fawcet t(1985) for a long list, wi th discussion and examples.
)Many  seem to d isplay id iosyncrat ic  semant ic  featuresthat  could necessitate a broad range of operators  in arepresentat ion,  destroying any apparent  homogenei tyof the class.
It is our suggestion, however,  that  theseconstructs  can be processed in a uni form way.
Weargue that  the divers i ty  among the constructs  can beaccounted for by eva luat ing descriptors according tointensional i ty ,  agents,  t ime, and states  of affairs.Introducing the concept of a descr iptor  preserves thehomogenei ty  of the class, while the d imensions alongwhich descr iptors may vary  provide enough detai l  todif ferentiate among the par t i cu lar  semant ics  of theconstructs.4 .
The  descr ip tor  representat ionIn this sect ion we introduce a representat iondesigned to capture  the different possible readings ofopaque construct ions.
In developing the representa-t ion, we have tr ied to move away from previousapproaches to intensional i ty ,  such as that  of Mon-tague (1973), which use t ruth  condit ions and mean-ing postulates,  and which take no account  of thebeliefs or knowledge of agents.
Inf luenced by recentwork on s i tuat ion semant ics  (Barwise and Perry1983, Lespe'rance 1986) and bel ief logics, we havea imed for a more 'common-sense '  approach.In the representat ion,  we take an intens ion to bea finite representat ion of those propert ies  thatcharacter ize membersh ip  in a class, and by a descrip-tor we mean a non-empty  subset  of the elements ofan intension (in pract ice,  often ident ica l  to the e0m-plete intension).
A descr iptor  provides access eitherto the intension of which it is a par t  or to its exten-sion.
This  e l iminates the need of expl ic i t ly l ist ing allthe known propert ies  of an ent i ty;  only propert ies194relevant o the discourse situation are mentioned.The representation is described in detail inFawcett (1985); below we give a short description ofthe main points, and some examples of its use.The representation is based on conventional tem-poral modal logic.
The general form of.a completedsentential clause is a proposition of the form(term-list) <predication>.The term-list, which can be empty, contains all thequantified terms except those which are opaque withrespect to agents or time; the predication expressesthe main relation among the various entities referredto.
The intention is that the term-list provides theinformation to identify referents in the knowledgebase, and the main predication asserts new informa-tion to be added to it.
Usually the argument posi-tions of the predication will be filled by bound vari-ables or constants, introduced previously in theterm-list.
However, within temporal operator oragent scopes, argument positions may instead con-tain quantified terms.
Term-list-predicate pairs maybe nested inside of one another.Quantified terms arise from noun phrases.
Theyhave the general form(Det X."
R(X))where Det is a quantifier corresponding to the expli-cit or implicit determiner of the noun phrase, X isthe variable introduced, and R(X) indicates restric-tions on X.
In the examples below, we restrict our-selves to only three quantifiers - -  indcf, def, andlabel, introduced by indefinite descriptions, definitedescriptions, and proper nouns respectively.
5To this formalism, we add the following:?
The agent scope marker ^ .This marker can apply to a formula or term toindicate that any embedded escriptors must beevaluated with respect o the beliefs of the agentsinvolved (that is, mentioned so far) at the pointwhere the scope of begins.
The speaker isassumed to always be available as an agent, anddescriptors outside the scope of ^ are attributedonly to the speaker.5For simplicity, we treat names as extensional in our examples.However, there is nothing to prevent an opaque treatment, inwhich the different agents are thinking of different individualswith the same name.?
The intensional abstractor int-abs.The formulaint-abs (C, ( Quant Var : Description))asserts that the quantified term Var is to have anintensional referent (i.e., an individual or universalconcept), which is returned in C. If C is subse-quently used, then its referent is a universal (gen-eric) concept, which we do not discuss in this paper;see Faweett (1985) for details.
If Vat is usedinstead, then the referent is an individual concept.
(Without int-abs, use of Vat refers to an extension.)?
Descriptors.The notation \[d X l indicates that the properties dare being used as a descriptor of entity X Thus itsintensionality, time of application, and agent mustbe considered.
(Variables over such descriptors arepermitted, so we can manipulate them indepen-dently of the entities to which they might refer.
)Thus, opacity with respect o agents and opacitywith respect o time are both treated as scope ambi-guities, while intensionality is marked as a binarydistinction.
In general, all quantified terms are left-extraposed to the outermost term list.
Thosequantified terms marked as intensionally ambiguousmay be prefixed by int-abs.
Those quantified termsoriginating within the scope of the agent scopemarker ^ may remain inside its scope and beevaluated relative to the agents available at thatpoint.
Similarly, those quantified terms originatingin the scope of the temporal operators F and P(future and past) may stay inside their scope, thusindicating a future or past application of the descrip-tor.The following example shows the representationsof the first four readings of (8) (i.e., those with thedescription applied at the time of the utterance), andan extensional counterpart.
(In the examples, thequantifier indef corresponds to the English deter-miner a, and the quantifier label is used for propernouns.
The structure of the descriptor dog-like-Ross's, orthogonal to our concerns here, is notshown.
)(24) Transparent reading, agent's description:There is a dog Nadia wants, and she describes itas being like Ross's dog.
(label Y: Nadia)<want Y, ^ (indef X:  \[dog-like-ross's X\]):>195(25) Transparent reading, speaker's description:There is a dog Nadia wants, and the speakerdescribes it as being like Ross's dog.
(label Y : Nadia)(indef X: \[dog-like-ross's 4 )<want Y, ^X~(26) Opaque reading, agent's description:Nadia wants something she describes as being adog like Ross's.
(label Y : Nadia)<want Y,^ int-abs (C, (indef X: \[dog-like-ross's 4 ) )>(27) Opaque reading, speaker's description:Nuciia wants something that the speaker describesas being a dog like Ross's.
(label Y: Nadia)int-abs (C, (indef X: \[dog-like-ross's X~))<wants Y, ^X>Note that the fourth reading has no representation ia conventional first-order modal language.
For com-parison, here is a non-opaque sentence of the samestructure.
(28) Nadia buys a dog like Ross's.
(label Y : Nadia)(indef X: \[dog-like-ross's X\])<buy Y, X:>Within the scopes of the opaque operators F, P,and ^, special checks must be made before standardinference rules can apply.
6 We do nc'~ assume that allarguments are intensional; we favour a policytowards intensional scopes of "introduce whenrequired" to minimize the amount of extra process-ing needed.
Our use of the symbol ^ is quitedifferent from that of Montague.
For Montague,  ^ xdenotes an object that is intensional.
We instead usethis notation to delimit the agent scope of an opaqueconstruct; descriptors in x are potentially ascribed toany of the agents preceding the ^ marker.Our approach to determiners is a compromisebetween other common approaches.
The first, com-mon in computational linguistics, is to representdeterminers by three-place quantifiers of the general6This is analogous to the restricted rules that Montague presentsfor substitution of identicals and lambda conversion in his inten-sional logic (Dowty, Wall, and Peters 1981: 165).
We seek a moreflexible scheme that, rather than prohibiting inference, restricts itsuse to certain special cases.fo rmd,t (., P(.
))where x is the variable introduced, R is the restric-tion on the variable, and P is the new predication onthe variable.
This reflects observations of Moore(1981) and others that determiners rarely have adirect correlation with the existential and universalquantifiers of first-order logic.
In many of the mean-ing representations used with logic grammars (Dahl(1981), for example), determiners provide the basicstructure of the meaning representation formula.The determiners are translated into quantifiers andare all left-extraposed (to be later scoped relative toone another on the basis of some reasonably simpleset of rules).
As a result, the main predication of aclause will always be nested in the rightmost predica-tion position.Another approach focuses more on the main verbsby first translating them into predicates, and subse-quently finding appropriate fillers for their argumentsthat contain the necessary quantifiers.
However, thisdoes not allow a convenient way to represent relativescoping ambiguities.
Montague combines the twoapproaches.
All quantifiers introduce two predicates:a restriction predicate and a main predication as inkR kP  (3z (R{z} AND P{z})),which translates the determiner a.Our approach is a compromise.
Quantified termsconsist of a variable and restriction, but do notincorporate the main predication.
All quantifiedterms (except those that are opaque with respect totime or agent) are left-extraposed and assimilatedinto a single list structure followed by a single mainpredication.5.
Subst i tu t ion  o f  equa lsGiven our descriptor logic, we can now turn to thequestion of when substitution-of-equals inferencescan and can't  be made.The failure of substitution of equivalent phrasesappears to be a gradable notion; the degree of substi-tution allowed varies with the type of constructunder consideration.
We can think of a scale of sub-stitutivity, with the lower bound being a strictly de196dicto reading in which no substitutions are permittedand the upper bound a strictly de re reading inwhich co-extensional phrases can be substituted inany context.For example, sentences that refer directly to theform of the expression admit no substitution:(29) The Big Bopper was so called because of his sizeand occupation.
(30) The Big Bopper was J. P.
Richardson.
(31) 5ff J. P. Richardson was so called because of hissize and occupation.In sentences of propositional attitude, certaindescriptors can be substituted for, provided the con-tent of the proposition, relative to the speaker andthe hearer, is not affected.
It is easy to recognizesuch cases, but not always easy to specify what exactcriteria determine terms that are interchangeable.Consider:(32) Nadia thinks that the Queen of England is alovely lady.
(33) Nadia thinks that Queen Elizabeth is a lovelylady.
(34) Nadia thinks that the titular head of the Churchof England is a lovely lady.The assumption is that since the filler of the roleQueen of England is not likely to change within thetime of the conversation and the speaker, the hearer,and Nadia are all aware of who fills that role, it isacceptable to substitute the filler for the role andvice versa.
Thus, sentence (33) can be inferred from(32).
But to substitute the phrase the titular head ofthe Church of England, as in (34), seems to attributemore knowledge to Nadia than was in the originalstatement.The problem of substitution in opaque contextsstems from the failure to recognize how descriptorsrelate, and not, as in classical logical approaches,from the failure of expressions to be "co-intensional".
The emphasis hould be on identifyingthe relation between descriptors with respect toappropriate agents rather than on co-intensionalityalone; in most cases co-intensionality is too strong acondition for substitution.
Rather, the backgroundassumptions of the discourse determine whether asubstitution of one descriptor for another ispermitted.A typical substitution replaces the target descrip-tor, dl, with an equivalent descriptor, d2, from thebackground assumptions, but otherwise preserves theform of the target sentence, i.e.,RESULT ~ TARGET \[dl/d2\].
7To see whether a descriptor substitution is valid inan opaque context, three factors must be checked inthe following order: the intensionality of the descrip-tor, the time of reference of the descriptor, and theagents of the descriptor.
We must establish the"level" of each factor in the target sentence andthen determine whether the background assumptionsauthorize substitutions at that level.
That  is, wemust relate the intensionality, time, and agent of thedescriptor equivalence asserted in the backgroundassumptions to those of the target descriptor, andthen assert the intensionality, time, and agent of thedescriptors in the resulting clause (after any substitu-tions).The background assumptions will have alreadybeen derived from earlier input (in a mannerdescribed by Fawcett 1985, section 5.5) and assimi-lated into the system's general knowledge base.
Inorder to compare descriptors in the target to descrip-tors in the background assumptions, we extract therelevant aspects from the representation of each, andexpress them explicitly by the use of the followingdescriptor predicates, which can then be used toquery the knowledge base.?
dese (a, e, dl).Ascribes a particular descriptor to an individual;"agent a would use the descriptor dl to describe theentity e".?
label (a, c, name).Indicates that the label name is known by agent ato be a label for the (individual) constant c.?
t ime (t, e, dl).Asserts that descriptor dl describes entity e attime t.As an example, consider the four readings of thissentence in which the description is applied at thetime of utterance:7Not all substitutions are of this form; see Fawcett 1985, section5.4.197(35) Nadia wants the fastest car in the world.speaker's description:E ^x>speaker% description:(i) Extensional reading,(label Y: Nadia)(def X: \[fcw )~) <want(ii) IntenMonal reading,(label Y: Nadia)int-abs (C, (def X: \[fcw X\])) <want Y, ^X>(iii) Extensional reading, agent's description:(label Y : Nadia)<want Y, ^(def X: \[fcw X\])>(iv) Intensional reading, agent's description:(label Y : Nadia)<want Y, ^int-abs (C, (def X: \[few X\]))>(fcw stands for the descriptor fastest-car-in-the-world.
)Table I lists some different possible backgroundassumptions.
We will show the different effects ofeach.
Background assumption I asserts the co-extensionality of the descriptors fastest ear in theworld and Ross's Jaguar 300, while assumption IIasserts co-intensionality of the descriptors.
Assump-tions llI and IV express the same equivalences, and,additionally, knowledge of them is also attr ibuted toNadia.When the beliefs of agents (other than thelistener) are not involved, the following rule licensescertain substitutions of equivalents:?
If the target descriptor is intensional 8 then co-intensional or definitionally equivalent descriptors inthe background assumptions may be substituted.Background assumptions I and II thus allow substitu-tions in readings (i) and (ii), as shown in table H.(For simplicity, the quantifier(label Y: Nadia)is omitted from each example.
)When attribution of descriptions is involved, as inreadings (iii) and (iv) of (35), we must determinewhether the other agents are (believed by the listenerto be) aware of the equivalence.
The general rule forsubstituting descriptors which are ambiguous withrespect o descriptive content is this:?
If the assertion of descriptor equivalence in thebackground assumptions in the listener's knowledgebase is part of the knowledge base of the agent to8In this rule, the descriptor must not be generic.
Rules for gener-ics (universal concepts) are described in Fawcett 1985, section 5.4.TABLE IBACKGROUND ASSUMPTIONSI The fastest car in the world is Ross's Jaguar 300.II The fastest car in the world (always) is a Jaguar 300.III Nadia believes that the fastest car in the world isRoss's Jaguar 300.IV Nadia believes that the fastest car in the world isa Jaguar 300.TABLE IISUBSTITUTIONAL INFERENCES(i) + I Nadia wants Ross's Jaguar 300.
(def X: \[ross's-jag300 X\]) <wants Y, ^X>(i) + II Nadia wants a Jaguar 300.
(def X: \[jag300 X\]) <wants Y, ^X>(ii) + I No substitution possible.
(ii) + II Nadia wants a Jaguar 300.int-ab,(C, (def X: \[jag300 X\]))<wants Y, ^X>(iii) + Ill(iii) + rv(i~) + Ill(i~) + IvNadia wants Ross's Jaguar 300.<wants Y, ^ (def X:  \[ro~'sqag300 X\])>Nadia wants a Jaguar 300.<wants Y, ^ (indef X: \[jag300 X\])>No substitution possible.Nadia wants some Jaguar 300.<wants Y,^ int-abs (C, (indef X: \[jag300 X\]))>whom the target descriptor is ascribed, then thedescriptor can be substituted in the target.
Theresulting clause will have the substituted escriptorattributed to the same agents as the descriptor inthe original target.Reading (iii) requires a co-extensional descriptor thatNadia is aware of.
Background assumptions IlI andIV both provide such a descriptor.
Reading (iv) alsorequires a descriptor that Nadia is aware of, but itmust be co-intensional with the target descriptor;only assumption IV provides such a descriptor whichcan then be substituted.
The results are shown intable II.198Substitution rules for other intensional constructs,and details of interactions between rules, can befound in Fawcett (1985, section 5.4).6.
Imp lementat ionWe have implemented a prototype system that incor-porates the ideas discussed above.
The system iswritten in Prolog, and is built on top of Popowich'sSAUMER formalism for syntactic and semantic rules(Popowich 1984, 1985).7.
P lans  and  goalsNow that we have looked at the problem of detect-ing these ambiguities and representing the possiblereadings, the next step is to study how the ambigui-ties may be resolved, and what factors influence thepreference for one reading over another.
We expectthat in most cases pragmatic factors will be central,although there may be default preferences in someconstructions.
In addition, another member of ourgroup, Diane Horton, is studying the interactionbetween agents' descriptions and the presuppositionsof a sentence (Horton 1986).AcknowledgementsThis paper is based on thesis work by the first authorunder the supervision of the second, who also wrote thepaper.
The authors acknowledge helpful discussions witheach other, Diane Horton, and Hector Levesque, and finan-cial support from IBM, the Natural Sciences and Engineer-ing Research Council of Canada, and the University ofToronto.
They are also grateful to Nick Cercone and FredPopowich for making the SAUMER system available tothem.ReferencesBARWISE, Jon and PERRY, John (1983).
Situations andattitudes.
Cambridge, M.A: The MIT Press / BradfordBooks, 1983.DAHL, Veronica (1981).
"Translating Spanish into logicthrough logic."
American journal of computationallinguistics, 7(3), 149-164.DowTY, David R; WALL, Robert E; and P~TERS, Stanley(1981).
Introduction to Montague semantics (Syntheselanguage library 11).
Dordrecht: D. Reidel, 1981.FAGIN, Ronald and HALPERN, Joseph Y (1985).
"Belief,awareness, and limited reasoning: Preliminary report.
"Proceedings of the Ninth International Joint Confer-ence on Artificial Intelligence, Los Angeles, August1985.
491-501.FAWCETT, Brenda (1985).
The representation of ambiguityin opaque constructs.
MSc thesis, published as techni-cal report CSRI-178, Department of Computer ScienceUniversity of Toronto, October 1985.FODOR, Janet Dean (1980).
Semantics: Theories of mean-ing in generative grammar (The language and thoughtseries).
Cambridge, Mass.
: Harvard University Press,1980.HOFSTADTER, Douglas R; CLOSSMAN, Gary A; andMEREDITH, Marsha J (1982). "
'Shakespeare's playsweren't written by him, but by someone lse of thesame name.'
An essay on intensionality and frame-based knowledge representation."
Bloomington, Indi-ana: Indiana University Linguistics Club, November1982.HORTON, Diane (1986).
Incorporating agents' beliefs in amodel of presupposition, MSc thesis, Department ofComputer Science, University of Toronto, forthcoming(June 1986).LESP~RANCE, Yves (1986).
"Toward a computationalinterpretation of situation semantics."
Computationalintelligence, 2(1), February 1986.LEVESQUE, Hector (1983).
"A logic of implicit and explicitbelief."
Proceedings of the National Conference onArtificial Intelligence (AAAI-88), Washington, D.C.,August 1983, 198-202.MONTAGUE, Richard (1973).
"The proper treatment ofquantification i  ordinary English."
\[11 In: Hintikka,Kaarlo Jaakko Juhani; Moravcsik, Julius Matthew Emiland Suppes, Patrick Colonel (editors).
Approaches tonatural language: Proceedings of the 1970 StanfordWorkshop on Grammar and Semantics.
Dordrecht: D.Reidel, 1973.
221-242.
\[2\] In: Thomason, RichardHunt (editor).
Formal Philosophy: Selected Papers ofRichard Montague.
New Haven: Yale University Press,1974.
247-270.MOORE, Robert C (1981).
"Problems in logical form.
"Proceedings of the 19th Annual Meeting, Associationfor Computational Linguistics, Stanford, June 1981,117-124.POPOWICH, Fred (1984).
"SAUMER: Sentence analysis usingmetarules."
Technical report 84-2, Laboratory for Com-puter and Communications Research, Simon FraserUniversity, Burnaby, B.C., Canada.
August 1984.PoPowIG~, Fred (1985).
"The SAUMER user's manual.
"Technical report 85-4, Laboratory for Computer andCommunications Research, Simon Fraser University,Burnaby, B.C., Canada.
March 1985.199
