FORUM ON MACHINE TRANSLAT IONMach ine  Trans la t ion  wi l l  not  WorkMartin KayXerox Palo Alto Research Center3333 Coyote Hill RoadPalo Alto, CA 94304PANEL IST  STATEMENTLarge expenditures on fundamental scientific research areusually limited to the hard sciences.
It is therefore entirelyreasonable to suppose that, if large sums of money are spenton machine translations, it will be with the clear expectationthat what is being purchased is principally development andengineering, and that the result will contribute substantiallyto the solution of some pressing problem.Anyone who accepts large (or small) sums on this under-standing is either technically naive or dangerously cynical.
Itmay  certainly be thatI.
machine translation could provide a valuableframework for fundamental research;2. texts in highly restricted subsets of natural lan-guage could be devised for particular puposes andtexts in translated automatically;3. computers have an important role to fill inmaking translations;4. translations of extremely low quality may be ac-ceptible on occasions.However,1.
the fundamental research is so far from ap-plicability,2.
the language subsets are so restricted,3.
the useful computer technologies are so differentfrom machine translation,4.
the quality of the translations that can beproduced of natural texts by automatic means isso low, and5.
the occasions on which those translations couldbe useful are so rare,that the use of the term in these cases can only result in con-fusion if not deception.A determined attempt was made to bring machine trans-lation to the point of usability in the sixties.
It has becomefashionable to deride these as "first generation" systems andto refer to what is being done now as belonging to the secondor third generation.
It should surely be possible for thosewho think that the newer systems can succeed where the ear-lier ones failed, to point to problems that have been solvedsince the sixties that are so crucial as substantially to changeour assessment of what can be achieved.
We know a gooddeal more about programming techniques and have largermachines to work with; we have more elegant theories ofsyntax and what modern linguists are pleased to call seman-tics; and there has been some exploratory work on anaphora.But, we still have little idea how to translate into a closelyrelated language like French or German, English sentencescontaining such words as "he", "she", "it", "not", "and",and "of".
Furthermore, such work as has been done on theseproblems has been studiously ignored by all those currentlyinvolved in developing systems.Unfortunately, the sums that are being spent on MT inEurope and Japan are large enough to make virtually in-evitable the production of a second ALPAC report sometimein the next few years.
This will inevitably have a devastat-ing effect on the whole field of computational linguistics,everywhere in the world.
The report will be the more devas-tating for the fact that much of the money has in fact beenspent frivolously, and much of the work has been incom-petent, even by today's limited standards.268
