A SENTENCE ANALYSIS  METHOD FOR A JAPANESEBOOK READING MACHINE FOR THE BL INDYutaka  Ohyama,  Toshikazu Fukushima,  Tomoki  Shutoh and Masamichi ShutohC&C Systems Research Laborator iesNEC Corporat ion1-1, Miyazaki 4-chome, Miyamae-ku,Kawasaki-c i ty,  Kanagawa 213, JapanABSTRACTThe following proposal is for a Japanese sentenceanalysis method to be used in a Japanese book readingmachine.
This method is designed to allow for severalcandidates in case of ambiguous characters.
Eachsentence is analyzed to compose a data structure bydefining the relationship between words and phrases.This structure ( named network structure ) involves allpossible combinations of syntactically collect phrases.After network structure has been completed, heuristicrules are applied in order to determine the most probableway to arrange the phrases and thus organize the bestsentence.
All information about each sentence ~ thepronunciation of each word with its accent and thestructure of phrases ~ will be used during speechsynthesis.
Experiment results reveal: 99.1% of allcharacters were given their correct pronunciation.
Usingseveral recognized character candidates is more efficientthan only using first ranked characters as the input forsentence analysis.
Also this facility increases theefficiency of the book reading machine in that it enablesthe user to select other ways to organize sentences.I.
IntroductionEnglish text-to-speech conversion technology hassubstantially progressed through massive research ( e.g.,Allen 1973, 1976, 1986; Klatt 1982, 1986 ).
A bookreading machine for the blind is a typical use for text-to-speech technology in the welfare field ( Allen 1973 ).According to the Kurzweil Reading Machine Update( 1985 ), the Machine is in use by thousands of people inover 500 locations worldwide.In the case of Japanese, however, due to thecomplexities of the language, Japanese text-to-speechconversion technology hasn't progressed as fast as that ofEnglish.
Recently a Japanese text-to-speech synthesizerhas been introduced ( Kabeya et al 1985 ).
However, thissynthesizer accepts only Japanese character code stringsand doesn't include the character recognition facility.Since 1982, the authors have been engaged in theresearch and development of a Japanese sentence analysismethod to be used in a book reading machine for theblind.
The first version of the Japanese book readingmachine, which is aimed to exarnine algorithms and itsperformance, has developed in 1984 ( Tsuji and Asai 1985;Tsukurno and Asai 1985; Fukushima et al 1985; Mitomeand Fushikida 1985, 1986 ).
Figure 1 shows the bookreading process of the machine.
A pocket-size book is firstscanned, then each character on the page is detected andrecognized.
Sentence analysis ( parsing ) is accomplishedby using character recognition result.
Finally, synthesizedspeech is generated.
The speech can be recorded forfuture use.
The pages will turn automatically.a p?ket-size ',', , !
~  ~ bookAutomatic PagingImage ScanningCharacterRecognitionSentence ParsingSpeech SynthesisSpeech Recording IFigure I.
The  Book  Reading Mach ine  Outline.165The Japanese sentence analysis method that theauthors have developed has two functions: One, to choosean appropriate character among several input charactercandidates when the character recognition result isambiguous.
Two, to convert the written character stringsinto phonetic symbols.
The written character strings aremade up Kanji ( Chinese } characters and kana ( Japaneseconsonant-vowel combination ) characters.
Thesephonetic symbols depict both the pronunciation andaccent of each word.
The structure of the phrases is alsoobtained in order to determine the pause positions andintonation.After briefly describing the difficulty of Japanesesentence analysis technology compared to that of English,this paper will outline the Japanese sentence analysismethod, as well as experimental results.2.
Compar i son  of Japanese  and Engl ish as Inputfor a Book Read ing  Mach ineIn this section, the difficulty of Japanese sentenceanalysis is described by comparing with that of English.2.1 Convers ion  f rom Wr i t ten  Characters  toPhonet ic  SymbolsIn English, text-to-speech conversion can be achievedby applying general rules.
For exceptional words whichare outside the rules, an exceptional word dictionary isused.
Accentuation can be also achieved by rules and anexceptional dictionary.Roughly speaking, Japanese text-to-speech conversionis similar to that of English.
However, in case ofJapanese, more diligent analysis is required.
Japanesesentences are written by using Kanji characters and kanacharacters.
Thousands of kinds of Kanji characters aregenerally used in Japanese sentences.
And, most of theKanji characters have several readings ( Figure 2 (a)) .On the other hand, the number of kana characters is lessthan one hundred.
Each kana character corresponds tocertain monosyllable.
Therefore, in the conversion ofkana characters, kana-to-phoneme conversion rules seemto be successfully applied.
However, in two cases, kanacharacters l~ and ~', are used as Kaku-Joshi, Japanesepreposition which follows a noun to form a noun phrase,then the pronunciation changes ( Figure 2 (b) }.Subsequently the reading of numerical words also changes( Figure 2 (c)).As described above, the pronunciation of eachcharacter in Japanese sentences is determined by aneighbor character which combines to form a word.There are too many exceptions in Japanese to creategeneral rules.
Therefore, a large size word dictionarywhich covers all commonly used words is generally used toanalyze Japanese sentences.2.2 Requ i red  Sentence Analys is  LevelIn English sentences, the boundaries between wordsare indicated by spaces and punctuation marks.
This isquite helpful in detecting phrase structure, which is usedto determinate pause positions and intonation.On the contrary, Japanese sentences only havepunctuation marks.
They don't have any spaces whichindicate word boundaries, Therefore, more preciseanalysis is required in order to detect word boundaries atfirst.
The structure of the sentence will be analyzed afterthe word detection.lq h__i ( day / sun )N ~ n_.._i-hon ( Japan )n_~-pon ( Japan )H ~ nichi-fi ( date and time )B T kusa.ka ( a Japanese last name )gap-pi ( date )H tsuki-hi ( months and days )~" H kyo-_u ( today )kon-nichi ( recent days )ichi-nichi ( one day )--\[3 ichi-jitsu ( one day )tsui-tachi ( the 1st day of a month )-- H futsu-k_a ( the 2nd day of a month/ two days )(a) Kan j i  Charactersh_a-na-w_._a ki-re-i-da~"~ ~zt}~h e-ya-_e ha-i-ru(b) Kana  Characters- -~ .
ip-pon-" :~ ni-hon-~ ;t: san'b.o_ n(c) Numer ica l  WordsF igure  2.
( Flowers are beautiful.
)( Entering the room.
)( one \[pen, stick,...\] )( two \[pens, sticks,...\] )( three \[pens, sticks,...\] )Examples  of  Japanese  Word .1662.3 Character  Recognition AccuracyEnglish sentences consist of twenty-six alphabetcharacters and other characters, such as numbers andpunctuations.
Because of the fewer number of the Englishalphabet characters, characters can be recognizedaccurately.Japanese sentences consist of thousands of Kanjicharacters, more than one hundred different kanacharacters ( two kana character sets ~ Hiragana ndKatakana are used in Japanese sentences ) andalphanumeric haracters.
Because of the variety ofcharacters, even when using a well-established characterrecognition method, the result is sometimes ambiguous.3.
Characteristics of Sentence Analysis MethodThe Japanese sentence analysis method has thefollowing characteristics.I.
The mixed Kanji-kana strings are analyzed boththrough word extraction and syntacticalexamination.
An internal data structure ( namednetwork structure in this paper ), which defines therelationship of all possible words and phrases, iscomposed through word extraction and syntacticalexamination.
After network structure has beencompleted, heuristic rules are applied in order todetermine the most probable way to arrange thephrases and thus organize a sentence.2.
When an obtained character ecognition result isambiguous, several candidates per character areaccepted.
Unsuitable character candidates areeliminated through sentence analysis.3.
Each punctuation mark is used as a delimiter.Sentence analysis of Japanese reads back to frontbetween punctuation marks.
For example, theanalysis starts from the position of the firstpunctuation mark and works to the beginning of thesentence.
Thus, word dictionaries and their indexeshave been organized so they can be used throughthis sequence.4.
The sentence analysis method is required for shortcomputing time to analyze unrestricted Japanesetext.
Therefore, it has been designed not to analyzedeep sentence structure, such as semantic orpragmatic correlates.5.
By the user's request, the book reading machine canread the same sentence again and again.
If the userwants to change the way of reading ( e.g.
in the casethat there are homographs ), the machine can alsocrest other ways of reading.
In order to achieve thisgoal, several pages of sentence analysis result is keptwhile the machine is in use.4.
Outline of Sentence Analysis SystemAs shown in Figure 3, the Japanese sentence analysissystem consists of two subsystems and word dictionaries.Two subsystems are named "network structurecomposition subsystem" and "speech informationorganization subsystem", respectively.
These subsystemswork asynchronously.RecognizedCharactersUser'8 RequestNetwork StructureCompoeition SubsystemI IndexesSpeech InformationOrganization SubsystemNetworkStructureContentsWord Dictionaries,SpeechInformationFigure 3.
Sentence Analysis System Outline.1674.1 Network Structure Composit ion SubsystemAs the input, the network structure compositionsubsystem receives character ecognition results.
Whenthe character ecognition result is ambiguous, severalcharacter candidates appear.
During the characterrecognition, the probability of each character candidate isalso obtained.
Figure 4 is an example of characterrecognition result.
Figure 4 describes: The first characterof the sentence as having three character candidates.
Thefifth and seventh characters as having two candidates.Except the fifth character, all of the first rankingcharacter candidates are correct.
However, the fifthcharacter proves an exception with the second rankingcharacter candidate as the desired character.With the recognized result, the network structurecomposition subsystem is activated.
Figure 5 describeshow the recognition result ( shown in Figure 4 ) isanalyzed.Through the detection of punctuation marks in theinput sentence ( recognition result ), the subsystemdetermines the region to be analyzed.
After one regionhas been analyzed, the next punctuation mark whichdetermines the next region is detected.
In case of Figure5, for example, whole data will be analyzed at once,because the first punctuation mark is located at the end ofthe sentence.Characters in the region are analyzed from thedetected punctuation to the beginning of the sentence.The analysis is accomplished by both word extraction ;~ndsyntactical examination.
Words in dictionaries areextracted by using character strings which are obtainedby combining character candidates.
The type of thecharacters ( kana, Kanji etc. )
determines which index forthe dictionaries will be used.Input Text 3~ % ~J~\]~:-~- ~.
(Analyze a sentence.
)1 2 3 4 5 6 7 81st Candidate ~ ~ ~ ~2nd Candidate ~ ~53rd CandidateFigure 4.
Character Recognit ion Result Example.D\[\]C3Dependent WordIndependent WordPhraseSyntactically Correct Conjugation(anatvze)FZl JVzl J(a sentenee~., l_~ ~(a paragraph}(a sentence}(length}(~3 ~ (again)Figure 5.
Sentence Analysis Example.168After extracting the words, phrases are composed bycombining the words.
Using syntactical rules ( i.e.conjugation rules ), only syntactically correct phrases arecomposed.Finally, by using these phrases, network structure iscomposed.
Network structure obtained through theanalysis described in Figure 5 is shown in Figure 6.
Thisstructure involves the following information.?
hierarchical relationship between sentence, phrasesand words?
syntactical meaning of each word?
pointers to the pronunciation and accentinformation of for each word in dictionaries?
pointers between phrases which are used when theuser selects other ways of readingSome features of Japanese language are utilized in thenetwork structure composition subsystem.
Some examplesof them are as follow.1.
In general, a Japanese phrase consists of both anindependent word and dependent words.
The prefixword and/or the suffix word are sometimesadjoined.
The number of dependent words is not somany as compared with independent words.
Itseems to be efficient to analyze dependent wordsfirst.
Thus, the analysis is accomplished from theend of the region to the beginning.2.3.Independent words mostly include non-kanacharacters, alternately, dependent words are writtenin kana characters.
Therefore, higher priority isgiven both to independent words which include anon-kana characters and to dependent words whichconsist of only kana characters.The number of Kanji characters is far greater thanthat of kana characters.
Therefore, it seems efficientto use a Kanji character as the search key to scanthe dictionary indexes.
These indexes are designedso that the search key must be a non-kana characterin cases where there is one or more non-kanacharacter.4.2 Speech In format ion  Organ izat ion  SubsystemWith the user's request for speech synthesis, thespeech information organization subsystem is activated.This subsystem determines the best sentence ( acombination of phrases ) by examining the phrases innetwork structure.
After organizing the sentence, theinformation for speech synthesis is then organized.
Thepronunciation and accent of each word are determined byusing the dictionaries.
The structure of the sentence isobtained by analyzing the relationship between phrases.In case of numerical words, such as 1,234..56, a specialprocedure is activated to generate the reading.
In case theuser requests other ways of reading the sentence, thesubsystem chooses other phrases in network structure,thus organizing the speech synthesis information.SentencePhrasesWords/ / ' ~  ~ ~:  ~'~  ~f f i~__~ ~?~ ~ 9- - " /  I ~  I~, ~ - ~ "  f?
I~bu',.hoo,.
I t n" t'-- b. '
.-I ,.'"
.
.
.
.
I ~= In .
\[ Pronunciation \]u'mi lady.
i Accent a'yaF igure  6.
Network Structure Example .169In order to determine the most probable phrasecombination in network structure, heuristic rules axeapplied.
The rules have been obtained mainly byexperiments.
Some of them are as follow.\[11 Number of Phrases in a SentenceThe sentence which contains the least number ofphrases will be given the highest priority.i21 Probabilities of CharactersThe phrase which contains more probablecharacter candidates will be given higher priority.This probability is obtained as the result ofcharacter recognition.
!3\] Written Format of WordsIndependent words written in kana characterswill be given lower priority.Independent words written in one characterwill be also given lower priority.14!
Syntactical Combination Appearance FrequencyThe frequently used syntactical combinationwill be given higher priority.
( e.g.
noun-preposition combination )!51 Selected PhrasesThe phrase which once has been selected bya user will be given higher priority.In the case of Figure 3, the best way of arrangingphrases is determined by applying the heuristic rule \[1\].4.3 Word  Dict ionar iesDictionaries used in this system are the following.
(1) Independent Word  DictionaryNouns, Verbs, Adjectives, Adverbs,Conjunctions etc.65,850 words(2) Proper Noun Word DictionaryFirst Names, Last Names, City Names etc.12,495 words(3) Dependent Word DictionaryInflection Portions for Verbs and Adjectives.They are used for conjugation.their usage.560 words(4) Prefix Word Dictionary153 words(5) Suffix Word Dictionary725 wordsEach word stored in these dictionaries has thefollowing information.
(a) written mixed Kanji-kana string (first-choice)(b) syntactical meaning(c) pronunciation(d) accent positionItems (a) and (b) of all words are gathered to form thefollowing four indexes.
* Kana Independent Word Index* Kana Dependent Words and Kana Suffix Word Index* Non-Kana Word Index* Prefix Word IndexThese indexes are used by the network structurecomposition subsystem.
Items (c) and (d) are used by thespeech information organization subsystem.5.
Exper imental  ResultsSome experiments have achieved in order to evaluatethe sentence analysis method.
In this section, theseexperimental results are described.5.1 Pronunciation AccuracyThe accuracy of pronunciation has been evaluated bycounting correctly pronounced characters.
In thisexperiment, character code strings were used as the inputdata.
The following two whole books are analyzed.?
Tetsugaku Annai  ( Introduction to Philosophy )by Tetsuzo Tanikawa ( an essay )?
Touzoku Gaisha ( The Thief Company )by Shin-ichi Hoshi ( a collection of short stories )As shown in Table I, 99.1% of all characters have beengiven their correct pronunciation.Table 1.
Score for Correct Pronunciation.Total Characters 128,289 (100%)Correct Characters 127,108 (99.1%)170The major cases for mispronunciation are as follows.
(1) Unregistered words in dictionaries(l-a) uncommon words(l-b) proper nouns(l-c) uncommon written style(2) Pronunciation changes in the case ofcompound words(3) Homographs(4) Word segmentation ambiguities(5) Syntactically incorrect Japanese usage5.2 Ef f ic iency as the  Postprocess ing  Rol l  forCharacter  Recogn i t ionThe efficiency as the postprocessing roll for characterrecognition has been evaluated by comparing thecharacters used for speech synthesis with the characterrecognition result.
Twelve pages of character recognitionresults ( four pages of three books ) have been analyzed.The books used as the input data are as follow.?
Tetsugaku Annai ( Introduction to Philosophy )by Tetsuzo Tanikawa ( an essay )?
Touzoku Gaisha ( The Thief Company )by Shin-ichi Hoshi ( a collection of short stories }?
Yujo ( The friendship )by Saneatsu Mushanokouji ( a novel )Table 2 shows scores for the character ecognitionresult.Table 2.
Character Recognition Result.Total Characters 6,793 (100%)Correct Characters 6,757 (99.5%)( at 1st Ranking )Correct Characters( in 1st to 5th Ranking )6,7s3 (99.9%)Table 3 shows the score for characters which are'chosen as correct characters by the sentence analysismethod, as well as the score for correctly pronouncedcharacters.Table 3.
Scores after Sentence Analysis.Total Characters 6,793 (100%)Characters Treated as 6,772 (99.7%)Correct CharactersCharacters CorrectlyPronounced6,72s (99.0%)As shown in Tables 2 and 3, the score for correctcharacters obtained after the sentence analysis was 99.7%,while the score for the 1st ranking chaxacters obtained inthe character recognition result was 99.5%.
Thisexperimental result reveals that the sentence analysismethod is effective as a postprocessing roll of characterrecognition.
The state of errors found during theexperiment is shown in Table 4.
The difference between(b') and (b3) in Table 4 indicates the effectiveness of thesentence analysis method.
The score 99.0% in Table 3indicates the efficiency of the sentence analysis method inthe book reading machine.Table 4.
State of Errors.<< Character Recognition Error >>Ca) 1st Ranking Chars are Incorrect(al) Correct Chars in 2nd-5th(a2) Not among Candidates362610<< Sentence Analysis Error >>(b)(bl)(b2)(b3)Total Incorrect CharIncorrect Chars among (al)Incorrect Chars among (a2)Incorrect Chars While CharRecognition was Correct(b') Correct Chars While the 1stRanking Chars were Incorrect( b' = al  - b l212241071715.3 Efficiency of Selection by ManualTo examine the efficiency, an experiment has beenconducted where sentences have been read bothautomatically and with the help of manual manipulation.The same text used in Section 5.2 was used in thisexperiment.
Table 5 shows scores for the correctlypronounced characters.
As shown in Table 5, 99.9% and99.8~ of all characters were given correct pronunciationafter the manual selection, while 99.3% and 99.0e~ of allcharacters had been given their correct pronunciationbefore the manual selection, respectively.
These scoresreveal that most mispronunciation could be recovered bymanual selection so that nearly all accurately pronouncedreading can be taped.Table 5.
Scores for Characters.Total Characters 6,793 (100?~)<< Input Data is Correct Characters >>Before Selection 6,745 (99.3%)After Selection 6,787 (99.9%)<< Input Data is Recognized Characters >>Before Selection 6,728 (99.0?~)After Selection 6,777 (99.8?~)6.
ConclusionA sentence analysis method used in a Japanese bookreading machine has been described.
Input sentences,where each character is allowed to have other candidates,are analyzed by using several word dictionaries, as well asemploying syntactical examinations.
After generatingnetwork structure, heuristic rules are applied in order todetermine the most desirable sentence used for speechinformation generation.
The results of experimentsreveal: 99.1% of all characters used in two whole bookshave been correctly converted to their pronunciation.Even when the character recognition result is ambiguous,correct characters can often be chosen by the sentenceanalysis method.
By manual selection, most incorrectcharacters can be corrected.Currently, the authors are improving the sentenceanalysis method including 'the heuristic rules and thecontents of dictionaries through book reading experimentsand data examinations.
This work is, needless to say,aimed in offering better quality speech to the blind usersin a short.computing time.
Authors are expecting thattheir efforts will contribute to the welfare field.ACKNOWLEDGEMENTSThe authors would like to express their appreciation toMr.
S. Hanaki for his constant encouragement andeffective advice.
The authors would also like to expresstheir appreciation to Ms. A. Ohtake for her enthusiasmand cooperation throughout the research.This research as been accomplished as the researchproject "Book-Reader for the Blind', which is one projectof The National Research and Development Program forMedical and Welfare Apparatus, Agency of IndustrialScience and Technology, Ministry of International Tradeand Industry.REFERENCES<< in English >>Allen, J., ed., 1986 From Text to Speech: TheMITalk System.
Cambridge University Press.Allen, J.
1985 Speech Synthesis from UnrestrictedText.
In Fallside, F. and Woods, W.A., eds.,Computer Speech Processing.
Prentice-Hall.Allen, J.
1976 Synthesis of Speech from UnrestrictedText.
Proc.
IEEE, 64.Allen, J.
1973 Reading Machine for the Blind: TheTechnical Problems and the Methods Adopted forTheir Solution.
IEEE Trans., AU-21(3).Kabeya, K.; Hakoda, K.; and Ishikawa, K. 1985A Japanese Text-To-Speech Synthesizer.Proe.
A VIOS '85.Klatt, D.H. 1986 Text to Speech: Present andFuture.
Proe.
Speech Tech '86.Klatt, D.H. 1982 The Klattalk Text-to-SpeechSystem.
Proe.
ICASSP '8Z.Mitome.
Y. and Fushikida, K. 1986 JapaneseSpeech Synthesis System in a Book Readerfor the Blind.
Proc.
ICASSP '86.1985 Kurzweil Reading Machine Update.Kurzweil Computer Products.<< in Japanese >>Fukushima, T.; Ohyama, Y.; Ohtake, A.; Shutoh, T;and Shutoh, M. 1985 A sentence analysis methodfor Japanese text-to-speech onversion i  theJapanese book reading machine for the 51ind.WG preprint, Inf.
Process.
Soc.
Jpn.,WGJDP 2-4.Mitome, Y. and Fushikida, K. 1985 JapaneseSpeech Synthesis by Rule using Formant-CV,Speech Compilation Method.
Trans.Committee on Speech Res., Acoust.
Soc.Jpn., $85-31.Tsuji, Y. and Asai, K. 1985 Document ImageAnalysis, based upon Split Detection Method.Tech.
Rep., IECE Jpn., PRL85-17.Tsukumo, J. and Asai, K. 1985 Machine PrintedChinese Character Recognition by Improved LociFeatures.
Tech.
Rcp., IECE Jpn., PRL85-17.172
