DONNELLAN'S DISTINCTIONAND A COMPUTATIONAL MODEL OF REFERENCEAmichai KronfeldArtificial Intell igence CenterSRI Internationaland 333 Ravenswood AvenueMenlo Park, CA 94025kronfeld~sri-warbucksCenter for the Study ofLanguage and InformationStanford UniversityStanford, CA 94305ABSTRACTIn this paper, I describe how Donnellan's distinction betweenreferential and attributive uses of definite descriptions shouldbe represented in a computational model of reference.
Afterbriefly discussing the significance of Donnellan's distinction, Ireinterpret i as being three-tiered, relating to object represen-tation, referring intentions, and choice of rehrring expression.I then present a cognitive model of referring, the componentsof which correspond to this analysis, and discuss the interac-tion that takes place among those components.
Finally, theimplementation f this model, now in progress, is described.INTRODUCTIONIt is widely acknowledged that Donnellan's distinction \[7\] be-tween referential and attributive uses of definite descriptionsmust be taken into account in any theory of reference.
Thereis not yet agreement, however, as to where the distinction fitsin a theoretical model of definite noun phrases.
For Cohen\[4\], the intention that the hearer identify a referent consti-tutes a crucial difference between the referential and the at-tributive.
Barwise and Perry \[3\], on the other hand, treattheir value-loaded/value-free distinction as the central featureof the referential versus the attributive.
However, as pointedout by Grosz et al \[9\], this analysis ignores an essential aspectof Donnellan's distinction, namely, the speaker's ability, whenusing a description referentially, to refer to an object that isindependent of the semantic denotation.The problem of determining the correct interpretation ofDonnellan's distinction is of considerable importance.
First,Donnellan's distinction seems to violate the principle that ref-erence to physical objects is achieved by virtue of the descrip-tive content of referring expressions.
This principle can befound practically everywhere - -  for example, in Frege's senseand reference, Rusell's theory of descriptions, and Searle'sspeech acts.
In the referential use of definite descriptions,however, reference seems to be established independently ofdescriptive content.
If I say ~The man over there with a glassof white wine is..., ~ I may be successful in my act of referring- -  regardless of whether the person over there is a man or awoman, the glass is full of wine or grape juice, the color ofthe beverage is white or red, and so on.
This, if accepted,has far-reaching consequences for the meaning of referring ex-pressions, for the logical structure of propositions, and for thetheory of propositional attitudes.Second, the referential/attributive distinction forces us toreconsider the division between semantics and pragmatics.
Itseems that a speaker's intentions in using a referring expressiondo make a semantic difference.
If I say ~Smith's murderer isinsane," meaning that whoever murdered Smith is insane (theattributive case), what I say is true if and only if the one andonly murderer is insane.
If, on the other hand, my intention isto use the definite description referentially (referring to, say,Tom, who is accused of being the culprit), what I say is trueif and only if Torn is indeed insane - -  whether he is the mur-derer or not.
Unless we understand the interaction betweenconventional meaning and a speaker's intentions in such cases,we cannot hope to construct an adequate model of referringand language use in general.Finally, Donnellan's distinction brings to the fore the roleof identification in the speech act of referring.
Both Strawsonand Searle (\[17,16\]) attempted to analyze referring in termsof identification and identifying descriptions.
But Donnellanhas pointed to what seems to be a clear distinction betweeneases in which identification is required (referential use) andthor  in which it is not (attributive use).
This calls for a newanalysis of the speech act of referring, one that does not relyon identification as a central concept, lIn this paper, I present a general framework for treatingDonnellan's distinction.
In particular, I contend the following:1.
The apparent simplicity of the referential/attributive dis-tinction masks three aspects of the problem of reference.In a sense, it is not one distinction but three: the firsthas to do with representations of objects, the second - -with referring intentions, the third - -  with the choice ofreferring expressions.2.
These three distinctions are independent of one another,and should be handled separately.
Each is relevant o adifferent component of a plan-based model of reference:the data base, the planner, and the utterance generator,respectively.3.
Although the three distinctions are mutually independent,tThese comments, naturally, only touch the surface.
For an extensivediscussion of the significance of the referential/attributive distinction seemy thesis \[141.
For a discussion of the role of identification in referring,see the paper coauthored by Appelt and me on this topic 12\].186they of course interact with one another.
The notion of aconversationally relevant description provides a basis forexplaining how the interaction operates.In the following sections, the three aspects are presented,their interactions discussed, and an initial attempt o achievean implementation that takes them into account is described.CRITERIAHow is the referential to be distinguished from the attributive?Two criteria are usually offered:1.
Even though, when used attributively, the descriptionmust denote the intended referent, in the referential usethis is not necessary.2.
In the referential use, the speaker has a particular objectin mind, whereas in the attributive he does not.These criteria have been taken to be equivalent: any useof a definite description that is referential according to onecriterion should also be classified as referential according tothe other (and similarly for the attributive use).
However,the equivalence of the two criteria is really an illusion: someuses of definite descriptions are referential according to onecriterion, but attributive according to the other.
For example,let us suppose that John, a police investigator, finds Smith'smurdered body, and that there are clear fingerprints on themurder weapon.
Now consider John's utterance: "The manwhose fingerprints these are, whoever he is, is insane."
Notethat John intended to speak of Smith's murderer, and he mayvery well have been successful in conveying his intended ref-erent, whether or not the fingerprints indeed belonged to themurderer.
Hence, according to the first criterion, the descrip-tion, "The man whose fingerprints these are," was used refer-entially.
On the other hand, John did not have any particularperson in mind.
Hence, according to the second criterion, thedescription must have been used attributively.Many, including Donnellan, regard the second criterion asthe more significant one.
But even this criterion is given twoconflicting interpretations.
On the one hand, ~having a par-ticular object in mind" is taken as an epistemic oncept: thisview holds that one can have a particular object in mind whilereferring only if one knows who or what the referent is.
On theother hand, the criterion also receives what I call the modalinterpretation.
According to this reading, the referential use ofa definite description is simply tantamount to employing thedescription as a rigid designator.
Obviously, the two interpre.tations are not equivalent.
As Kaplan demonstrates \[l l l ,  onecan use a description as a rigid designator without having anyidea who the referent is.Thus, there are three aspects of Dounellan's distinction thatshould be carefully separated.
These aspects can be repre-sented in terms of three dichotomies:* Having knowledge of an object versus not having suchknowledge (the epistemie distinction).,, Using a description as a rigid designator versus using itas a nonrigid one (the modal distinction).s Using a definite description "the ~" to refer to whoever orwhatever the ~ may be, versus using "the ~" to refer toan object z, whether or not z is indeed the ~ (the speechact distinction).THREE COMPONENTSThe epistemic, modal, and speech act distinctions correspondto three components hat a plan-based model of reference mustpossess, z Any such model must contain the following:1.
A database that includes representations of objects2.
A planner that constructs trategies for carrying out re-ferring intentions3.
An utterance generator that produces referring expres-sionsLet us call these the database, the planner, and the utterance-generator, espectively.
The next three sections describe a cog-nitive model of referring that incorporates these components.Object RepresentationsObjects are represented to agents by terms.
These terms aregrouped into individuatin9 sets.
An individuating set for anagent S is a maximal set of terms, all believed by S to bedenoting the same object.
For example, for John, the policeinvestigator, the set {Smith'n murderer, the man who~e finger-prints these are} is an individuating set of Smith's murderer.The incredibly complex cluster of internal representations un-der which, for instance, John's mother would be representedto him is also an individuating set, although it would be im-practical to enumerate all the terms in this set.An individuating set is grounded if it contains either a per-ceptual term or a term that is the value of a function whoseargument is a perceptual term.
For example, a set containingthe description "your father" is grounded, since it contains aterms that is the result of applying the function FATHER-OFto a perceptual term representing you.It should be emphasized that an individuating set is theresult of the speaker's beliefs, not a mirror of what is actuallythe case.
A speaker may possess two distinct individuating setsthat, unbeknownst to him, determine the same object (e.g.,Oedipus's representations of his mother and his wife).
Onthe other hand, a speaker may possess an individuating setcontaining two or more terms that actually denote differentobjects.
Moreover, the object that an agent believes to bedenoted by the terms of some individuating set may not existin the actual world.Whether or not an agent can have knowledge of the referent,or know who or what the referent is (the epistemic distinc-tion}, depends on the nature of the relevant individuating set.In a computational model, we can place a number of restric-tions on individuating sets to reflect various epistemologicalintuitions.
For example, we may require that, for an agent tobe able to manipulate an object, the relevant individuating setmust contain a perceptual term, or that, for an agent to knoweFor a plan-based model of referring, definite noun phrases, and speechacts in general, see articles by Appelt, Cohen, Cohen and Levesque, Cohenand Perrault (\[1,4,.5,6\]).187DIST INCT ION INTERPRETAT IONEpistemic Type of individuating setModal Type of referring intentionsSpeech act Choice of definite noun phraseI COMPONENTDatabasePlannerUtterance generatorTable 1: Donnellan's distinction, its interpretation\[s), and the corresponding computational components.who a certain person is (relative to purpose P), the relevantindividuating set must include a privileged term determinedby P, or that, for an agent o have knowledge ofan object, therelevant individuating set must be grounded, and so on.Since individuating sets are part of the database, this iswhere the epistemlc distinction belongs.Re fer r ing  In tent ionsA speaker may have two distinct types of referring intentions.First, he may select a particular term from the relevant indi-viduatlng set, and intend this term to be recognized by thehearer.
Second, the speaker may intend to refer to the ob-ject determined by an individuating set, without intending anyparticular term from the set to be part of the proposition hewants to express.
Consider, for example, the following twostatements:1 The author of Othello wrote the best play about jealousy.2 Shakespeare was born in Stratford-upon.Avon.In making both statements, a speaker would normally be re-ferring to Shakespeare.
But note the difference in referringintentions between the two: in the first statement, he speakerselects a particular aspect of Shakespeare, namely, the factthat he is the author of Othello, and intends the hearer tothink of Shakespeare in terms of this aspect.
In the secondstatement, he speaker does not select any particular aspectof Shakespeare from the relevant individuating set.
Indeed,he may not care at all how the hearer makes the connectionbetween the name "Shakespeare" and the referent.The two types of referring intentions yield two distinct typesof propositions.
When the speaker does not intend any par.ticular aspect of the referent o be recognized by the hearer,the proposition expressed in this way is singular, that is, itdoes not contain any individual concept of the referent.
Con-sequently, the referring expression chosen by the speaker (beit a proper name, a demonstrative, or even a definite descrip-tion) is used as a rigid designator, which means that it picksout the same individual in all possible worlds where the ref-erent exists.
On the other hand, if a particular aspect of thereferent is meant to be recognized by the hearer, then the in-dividual concept corresponding to that aspect is part of theproposition expressed and should therefore be taken into ac-count in evaluating the truth value of what is said.
Thus, itis the speaker's referring intentions that determine whether ornot he will use a definite description as a rigid designator (themodal distinction).
Since referring intentions are representedin the planner, this is where the modal distinction belongs.Note that the two types of referring intentions can be de-scribed as intentions to place constraints on the way the hearerwill be thinking of the referent.
In Appelt and Kronfeld \[2\],this is generalized to other referring intentions - -  for example,the intention that the hearer identify the referent.Referr ing Express ionsOnce the speaker decides what his referring intentions are,he must choose an appropriate referring expression.
Usually,if a particular aspect of the referent is important, a suitabledefinite description is employed; otherwise a proper name ora demonstrative may be more useful.
However, such a neatcorrelation between types of referring expressions and referringintentions may not happen in practice.
In any case, as weshall see in the next section, the speaker's choice of a referringexpression constitutes an implicit decision as to whether thedenotation of the referring expression must coincide with theintended referent (the speech act distinction).
The choice ofreferring expression is naturally made within the utterancegenerator, where the speech act distinction is represented.By way of summary, Table I shows how Donnellan's distinc-tion, in its reinterpreted form, is related to a plan-based modelof reference.RELEVANT DESCRIPT IONSKripke and Searle \[12,15\] explain the referential use as a casein which speaker's reference is distinct from semantic refer-ence.
This leaves an important question unanswered: whymust speaker's reference and semantic reference coincide inthe attributive use?
sSometimes two definite descriptions are equally useful foridentifying the intended referent, yet cannot be substitutedfor each other in a speech act.
The description employed, be-sides being useful for identification, has to be relevant in someother respect.
Consider the utterance: "New York needs morepolicemen.
* Instead of "New York," one might have used "Thelargest city in the U.S2 or "The Big Apple," but "The cityhosting the 1986 ACL conference needs more policemen" won'tdo, even though this description might be as useful in identi-fying New York as the others.
The latter statement simplyconveys an unwarranted implication.As a generalization, we may say that there are two sensesin which a definite description might be regarded as relevant.First, it has to be relevant for the purpose of letting the hearerknow what the speaker is talking about.
4 A description thatis relevant in this sense may be called functionally relevant.S~eond, as the example above indicates, a description mightexhibit a type of relevance that is not merely a referring tool.~As redefined by the ~pcech act distinction.4Whether the hearer is also expected to identify the referent isa seps-r~te issue.188A description that is relevant in this noninstrumental sensemight be called conversationally relevant.Every use of a definite description for the purpose of refer-ence has to be functionally relevant.
But not every such usehas to be conversationally relevant.
If indicating the referentis the only intended purpose, any other functionally relevantdescription will do just as well.In other cases, the description is supposed to do more thanjust point out the intended referent o the hearer.
Considerthe following examples:3 This happy man must have been drinking champagne.4 The man who murdered Smith so brutally has to be insane.B The winner of this race will get $I0,000.In these examples, the speaker implicates (in Grice's sense}something that is not part of what he says.
In (3), it is impli-cated that the man's happiness is due to his drinking.
In (4), itis implicated that the main motivation for believing the mur-derer to be insane is that he committed such a brutal homicide.The implicature in (5) is that the only reason for giving thewinner $10,000 is his victory in a particular ace.
In all thesecases, what is implicated is some relationship between a spe-cific characteristic of the referent mentioned in the descriptionand whatever is said about that referent.
In such cases, it doesmatter what description is chosen, since the relevance is bothfunctional and conversational.
No other description, even if itidentifies equally well, can be as successful in conveying theintended implicature.The conversationally relevant description may not be men-tioned explicitly, but rather inferred indirectly from the con-text.
In the fingerprint example, the speaker uses the descrip-tion, The man whose fingerprints these are, but the conversa-tionally relevant description is nevertheless Smith's murderer.Thus, there are three general ways in which a speaker mayemploy a referring definite description:1.
If the discourse requires no conversationally relevant de-scription, any functionally relevant one will do.
This cov-ers all standard examples of the referential use, in whichthe sole function of the definite description is to indicatean object to the hearer.2.
If a conversationally relevant description is needed, thespeaker may do either of the following:(a) Use the description explicitly.
This is what is donein standard examples of the attributive use.
(b) Use a different, functionally relevant description.The speaker can do so, however, only if the contextindicates the aspect of the referent hat correspondsto the conversationally relevant description.
This ex-plains the ambiguity of the fingerprint example.
Asthe definite description uttered is only functionallyrelevant, its use appears to be referential.
Yet, un-like the referential case, a conversationally relevantdescription is implied.In sum, when the description used is conversationally rel-evant, the speaker intends that the specific way he chose todo his referring should be taken into account in interpretingthe speech act as a whole.
Consequently, if the descriptionfails, so does the entire speech act.
On the other hand, if thedescription is only fimctionally relevant, the context may stillsupply enough information to identify the intended referent.INTERACTIONSWhen a speaker plans a speech act involving reference to anobject, he must determine whether or not a conversationallyrelevant description is needed.
However, the nature of the in-dividuating set, on the one hand, and constraints on choices ofreferring expressions, on the other, may influence the speaker'splanning in various ways.
For example, if the individuating setcontains only one item, say, the shortest spy, the definite de-scription "the shortest spy" must be conversationally relevant.This is true both on formal and pragmatic grounds.
Froma formal standpoint, the description is conversationally rele-vant by default: no other functionally relevant description canbe substituted because no such description is available.
Froma pragmatic standpoint, the description "the shortest spy" isvery likely to be conversationally relevant in real discourse,simply because all we know about the referent is that he is theshortest spy.
Thus, whatever we may have to say about thatperson is very likely to be related to the few facts contained inthe description.Even if it is clear that a conversationally relevza~t descriptionis needed for the speech act to succeed, constraints on choicesof referring expressions may prevent he speaker from usingthis description.
One such constraint results from the needto identify the referent for the hearer.
If the conversationallyrelevant description is not suited for identification, a conflictarises.
For example, in "John believes Smith's murderer to beinsane," the speaker may be trying simultaneously torepresentthe content of John's belief and to identify for the hearer whomthe belief is about.
Sometimes it is impossible to accomplishboth goals with one and the same description.IMPLEMENTATIONThis paper is part of an extensive analysis of the referen-tial/attributive distinction, which I use in the construction of ageneral model of reference \[13\].
My ultimate research objectiveis to provide s computational version of the reference model,then to incorporate it into a general plan-based account of def-inite and indefinite noun phrases.
An experimental programthat implements individuating ~ets has already been written.Called BERTRAND, this program interprets a small subset ofEnglish statements, and stores the information in its database,which it then uses to answer questions.
Individuating sets arerepresented by an equivalence r lation that holds among refer-ring expressions: two referring expressions, R1 and R2, belongto the same individuating set if, according to the informationinterpreted so far, RI and R 2 denote the same object.
In con-strueting individuating sets, BERTRAND uses a combinationof logical and pragmatic strategies.
The logical strategy ex-ploits the fact that the relation "denote the same object" issymmetric, transitive, and closed under substitution.
Thus, it189can be concluded that two referring expressions, RI and Rz,denote the same object (belong to the same individuating set)in one of the following ways: 51.
Directly, when the statement "Rt is Rz ~ (or "R2 is RI ~)has been asserted.2.
Recursively using transitivity - -  i.e., when, for a referringexpression Rs, it can be shown that Rl and Rs, as well asRs and Rz, belong to the same individuating set.3.
Recursively using substitution - -  i.e., when Rl and Rz areidentical, except that Rl contains a referring expressionsubRl exactly where Rz contains a referring expressionsubRz, and 8ubRl and subR2 belong to the same individ-uating set.Note that, in the logical strategy, it is tacitly assumed thatthe relation of denoting the same object always holds betweentwo identical tokens of referring expressions.
This is obviouslytoo strong an assumption for any realistic discourse: for ex-ample, two utterances of "The man" may very well denote twodifferent people.
On the other hand, the logical strategy failsto capture cases in which it is implied (although never actu-ally asserted) that two distinct referring expressions denote thesame thing.
For example, "I met Marvin Maxwell yesterday.The man is utterly insane!
~To compensate for these weaknesses, BERTRAND uses astrategy based on Grosz's notion of ffocus stack" \[8,10\].
Inconceptual terms (and without going into details), it works asfollows: a stack of individuating sets, representing objects thatare "in focus," is maintained throughout he "conversation.
"When a new referring expression is interpreted, it is trans-formed into an open sentence D(z) with a single free variablez.
s An individuating set I is said to subsume an open sentenceS if S can be derived from I.
The first individuating set in thefocus stack to subsume D(z) represents the object denoted bythe new referring expression.
This solves the aforementionedproblems: two occurrences of the same referring expressionare considered as denoting the same object only if both aresubsumed by the same individuating set in the focus stack,and two distinct referring expressions may still be consideredas denoting the same object even though the logical strategyfailed to show this, provided that both are subsumed by thesame individuating set.Once the concept of an individuating set has been imple-mented, referring intentions can be represented as intentionsto activate appropriate subsets of individuating sets.
For ex-ample, the intention to use a conversationally relevant descrip-tion can be represented as the plan to activate a subset of anindividuating set that contains the term associated with thedescription.
This is the topic of a current joint research effortwith D. Appelt \[2\] to investigate the interaction that takesplace between individuating sets and Appelt's four types ofSWhat belongs to an individuating set, of course, is not a referringexpression but the logical structure associated with it.
For the sake ofsimplicity, however, I do not make this distinction here.6For example, ~The man from the city by the bay ~ is transformed intoMan(a:)&From(z, Xi)where Xi is an "internal symbol" associated with Clty(y)&By(y,Xi) ,and )(j is associated with Bay(z).concept activation actions \[1\].
The next stage in the devel-opment of BERTRAND - -  the implementation of referringintentions - -  will be based on this research.
In the final stage,individuating sets and referring intentions will be used to gen-erate actual referring expressions.ACKNOWLEDGMENTSThis research was supported by the National Science Founda-tion under Grant DCR-8407238.
I am very grateful to DougAppelt and Barbara Grosz for detailed comments on earlierdrafts, as well as to memhers of the Discourse, Intention andAction seminar at the Center for the Study of Language andInformation for stimulating discussions of related issues.REFERENCES\[1\] Douglas E. Appelt.
Some pragmatic issues in the planningof definite and indefinite noun phrases.
In Proceedings ofthe ?Srd Annual Meeting, Association for ComputationalLinguistics, 1985.\[2\] Douglas E. Appelt and Amichai Kronfeld.
Toward amodel of referring and referent identification.
Forthcom-ing.
Submitted to the AAAI convention, Philadelphia,August 1986.\[3\] Jon Barwise and John Perry.
Situations and Attitudes.The Massachsetts Institute of Technology Press, Cam-bridge, Massachusetts, 1983.\[4\] Philip R. Cohen.
Referring as requesting.
In Proceedingsof the Tenth International Conference on ComputationalLinguistics, pages 207-211, 1984.\[5\] Philip R. Cohen and Hector Levesque.
Speech acts andthe recognition of shared plans.
In Proceedings of theThird Biennial Conference, Canadian Society for Com-putational Studies of Intelligence, 1980.\[6\] Philip R. Cohen and C. Raymond Perranlt.
Elements ofa plan-based theory of speech acts.
Cognitive Science,3:117-212, 1979.\[7\] Kieth S. Donnellan.
Reference and definite description.Philiosophicai Review, 75:281-304, 1966.\[8\] Barbara J. Grosz.
Focusing and description in naturallanguage dialogues.
In A. Joshi, I.
Sag, and B. Webber,editors, Elements of Discourse Understanding, pages 85-105, Cambridge University Press, Cambridge, England,1980.\[9\] Barbara J. Grosz, A. Joshi, and S. Weinstein.
Provid-ing a unified account of definite noun phrases in dis-course.
In Proceedings of the Twenty-first Annual Meet-ing, pages 44-50, Association for Computational Linguis-tics, 1983.\[10\] Barbara J. Grosz and Candace L. Sidner.
Discourse struc-ture and the proper treatment of interruptions.
In Pro-eeedings of the Ninth International Joint Conference onArtificial lntellignece, pages 832-839, 1985.190\[11\] David Kaplan.
Dthat.
In Peter Cole, editor, Syntaz andSemantics, Volume 9, Academic Press, New York, NewYork, 1978.\[12\] Saul Kripke.
Speaker eference and semantic reference.In French et al, editor, Contemporary Perspectives in thePhilosophy of Language, University of Minnesota Press,Minneapolis, Minnesota, 1977.\[13\] Amichai Kronfeld.
Reference and Denotation: The De-scriptive Model.
Technical Note 368, SRI InternationalArtificial Intelligence Center, 1985.\[14\] Amichai Kronfeld.
The Referential Attributive Distinc-tion and the Conceptual-Descriptive Th ory of Reference.PhD thesis, University of California, Berkeley, 1981.\[15\] John Searle.
Referential and attributive.
In Ezpressionand Meaning: Studies in the Theory of Speech Acts, Cam-bridge University Press, Cambridge, England, 1979.\[16\] John Searle.
Speech Acts: An Essay in the Philosophyof Language.
Cambridge University Press, Cambridge,England, 1969.\[17\] Peter F. Strawson.
On referring.
In J.F Rosenberg andC.
Travis, editors, Readin 9in the Philosophy of Language,Prentice Hall, Englewood, New Jersey, 1971.191
