Encodinl~ and Acquiring Meaningsfor-Figurative Phrases *Michael G. DyerUri ZernikArtificial Intelligence LaboratoryComputer Science Department3531 Boelter HallUniversity of CaliforniaLos Angeles, California 90024Abstract 1.1 The Task DomainHere we address the problem of mapping phrase meaningsinto their conceptual representations.
Figurative phrases arepervasive in human communication, yet they are difficult toexplain theoretically.
In fact, the ability to handle idiosyncrat-ic behavior of phrases hould be a criterion for any theory oflexical representation.
Due to the huge number of suchphrases in the English language, phrase representation must beamenable to parsing, generation, and also to learning.
In thispaper we demonstrate a semantic representation which facili-tates, for a wide variety of phrases, both learning and parsing.1.
IntroductionThe phrasal approach to language processing \[Backer75,Pawley83, Fillmore86\] emphasizes the role of the lexicon as aknowledge source.
Rather than maintaining a single genericlexical entry for each word, e.g.
: take, the lexicon containsmany phrases, e.g.
: take over, take it or leave it,take it up with, take it for granted, etc.
Althoughthis approach proves effective in parsing and in generation\[Wilensky84\], there are three problems which require furtherinvestigation.
First, phrase interaction: the lexicon providesrepresentation for single phrases, such as take to task andmake up one' s mind.
Yet it is required to analyze complexclauses such as he made up his mind to take her totask.
The problem lies with the way the meanings of the twophrases interact to form the compound meaning.
Second,phrase ambiguity: \[Zernik86\] phrasal parsing shifts the taskfrom single-word selection to the selection of entire lexicalphrases.
When a set of lexical phrases appear syntacticallyequivalent, i.e.
: he ran into a friend, he ran into an1986 Mercedes, he ran into the store, and he raninto trouble again, disambiguation must be performed bysemantic means.
The conditions which facilitate phrasediscrimination reside within each lexical entry itself.
Third,phrase idiosyncracy: the meaning representation of phrasessuch as: lay down the law VS. put one' s foot down,must distinguish the special use of each phrase.
This paper isconcerned in the representation f phrase meanings and theprocess of acquiring these meanings from examples in context.
* This research was supported in part by a grant from the ITA Foundation.Consider the figurative phrases in the sentences below, asthey are parsed by the program RINA \[Zernik85a\].Sh The Democrats in the house carried the water forReagan's tax-reform bil l .
**$2: The famous mobster evaded prosecution foryears.
Finally, they threw the book at himfor tax evasion.Depending on the contents of the given lexicon, the programmay interpret these sentences in one of two ways.
On the onehand, assuming that the meaning of a phrase exists in the lexi-con, the program applies that meaning in the comprehension fthe sentence.
In S1, the program understands that the Demo-cratic representatives did the "dirty" work in passing the billfor Reagan.
On the other hand, if the figurative phrase doesnot exist in the lexicon, an additional task is performed: theprogram must figure out the meaning of the new phrase, usingexisting knowledge: First, the meanings given for the singlewords car ry  and water are processed literally.
Second, thecontext which exists prior to the application of the phrase, pro-vides a hypothesis for the formation of the phrase meaning.
Adialog with RINA proceeds as follows:RINA: They moved water?User: No.
The Democrats carried the water forReagan.R INA:  They helped him pass the bill?Thus, RINA detects the metaphor underlying the phrase,and using the context, it learns that car ry  the water meanshelping another person do a hard job.
Consider encounterswith three other phrases:Jenny wanted to go punk but her father$3: laid down the law.$4: put his foot down.$5: read her the riot act.In all these cases, it is understood from the context thatJenny's father objected to her plan of going punk (aided by theword but which suggests that something went wrong withJenny's goals).
However, what is the meaning of each one ofthe phrases, and in particular do all these phrases convey ident-ical concepts?
** This sentence was recorded off the ABe television program Nightline,December 12, 1985.1061.2 The IssuesIn encoding meanings of figurative phrases, we must ad-dress the following issues.Underlying KnowledgeWhat is the knowledge required in order to encode thephrase throw the book?
Clearly, this knowledge includes thesituation and the events that take place in court, namely thejudge punishing the defendant.The phrase carry the water, for example, requires twokinds of knowledge:(a) Knowledge about the act of carrying water which cansupport he analysis of the phrase metaphor.
(b) Knowledge about general plans and goals, and the wayone person agrees to serve as an agent in the execution ofthe plans of another person.
This knowledge supports theanalysis of the context.While the phrases above could be denoted in terms ofplans and goals, other phrases, i.e.
: rub one's  nose in i t ,climb the walls, and have a chip on one's shoulderrequire knowledge about emotions, such as embarrassmentand frustration.
Unless the program maintains knowledgeabout resentment, the phrase have a ch ip  on the  shou ld -er ,  for example, cannot be represented.
Thus, a variety ofknowledge structures take place in encoding figurative phrases.Representing Phrase Meanings and ConnotationsThe appearance of each phrase carries certain implica-tions.
For example, John put his foot down implies thatJohn refused a request, and on the other hand, John read ther io t  act implies that he reacted angrily about a certain eventin the past.
John gave Mary a hard time implies that he re-fused to cooperate, and argued with Mary since he was an-noyed, while John la id  down the law implies that John im-posed his authority in a discussion.
The representation f eachphrase must account for such implications.Three different phrases in sentences $3-$5 are applied inthe same context.
However, not any phrase may be applied inevery context.
For example, consider the context establishedby this paragraph:$6: Usually, Mary put up with her husband's cook-ing, but when he served her cold potatoesfor breakfast, she put her foot down.Could the phrase in this sentence be replaced by the other twophrases: (a) lay down the law, or (b) read the riot act?While understandable, these two phrases are not appropriate inthat context.
The sentence she read him the r io t  actdoes not make sense in the context of debating food taste.
Thesentence she la id  down the law does not make as muchsense since there is no argument between individuals withnon-equal authority.
Thus, there are conditions for the appli-cability of each lexical phrase in various contexts.
These con-ditions support phrase disambiguation, and must be includedas pan of a phrase meaning.Phrase AcquisitionPhrase meanings are learned from examples given in con-text.
Suppose the structure and meaning of put one' s footdown is acquired through the analysis of the following sen-tences:$6: Usually, Mary put up with her husband's cook-ing, but when he served her cold potatoesfor breakfast, she put her foot down.S7: Jenny was dating a new boyfr iend and startedto show up after midnight.
When she cameat 2am on a weekday, her father put his footdown: no more late dates.58: From time to time I took money from John, andI did not always remember to give it backto him.
He put his foot down yesterday when Iasked him for a quarter.Since each example contains many concepts, both appropriateand inappropriate, the appropriate concepts must be identifiedand selected.
Furthermore, although each example providesonly a specific episode, the ultimate meaning must be general-ized to encompass further episodes.Literal InterpretationSingle-word senses (e.g.
: the sense of the panicle into inrun into another ear), as well as entire metaphoric actions(e.g.
: carry the water in the Democratic representa-tives carr ied the water for Reagan's tax-reformb i l l )  take pan in forming the meaning of unknown figurativephrases.
Can the meaning of a phrase be acquired in spite ofthe fact that its original metaphor is unknown, as is the casewith read the riot act (what act exactly?)
or carry thewater  (carry what water)?2.
The ProgramThe program RINA \[Zernik85b\] is designed to parse sen-tences which include figurative phrases.
When the meaning ofa phrase is given, that meaning is used in forming the conceptof the sentence.
However, when the phrase is unknown, thefigurative phrase should be acquired from the context.
The pro-gram consists of three components: phrasal parser, phrasal lex-icon, and phrasal acquisition module.2.1 Phrasal ParserA lexical entry, a phrase, is a triple associating a linguisticpattern with its concept and a situation.
A clause in the inputtext is parsed in three steps:(1) Matching the phrase pattern against the clause in the text.
(2) Validating in the context he relations specified by thephrase situation.
(3) If both (1) and (2) are successful then instantiating thephrase concept using variable bindings computed in (1)and (2).107For example, consider the sentence:$9: :Fred wanted to marry Sheila, but she duckedthe issue for years.
Finally he put her on thespot.The figurative phrase is parsed relative to the context esta-blished by the first sentence.
Assume that the lexicon containsa single phrase, described informally as:phrasepattern: Personl put Person2 on the spotsituation: Person2 avoids making acertain tough decisionconcept: Personl prompts Person2 to make that decisionThe steps in parsing the clause using this phrase are:(1) The pattern is matched successfully against the text.Consequently, Personl and person2 are bound to Fredand Sheila respectively.
(2) The situation associated with the pattern is validated inthe context.
After reading the first phrase the contextcontains two concepts: (a) Fred wants to marry Sheila,and (b) she avoids a decision.
The situation matches theinput.
(3) Since both (1) and (2) are successful, then thepattern it-self is instantiated, adding to the context:Fred prompted Sheila to make up her mind.Phrase situation, distinguished from phrase concept, is intro-duced in our representation, since it help solve three problems:(a) in disambiguation it provides a discrimination condition forphrase selection, (b) in generation it determines if the phrase isapplicable, and (c) in acquisition it allows the incorporation ofthe input context as pan of the phrase.2.2 Phrasal LexiconRINA uses a declarative phrasal exicon which is imple-mented through GATE \[Mueller84\] using unification \[Kay79\]as the grammatic mechanism.
Below are some sample phrasalpatterns.PI: ?x <lay down> <the law>P2: ?x throw <the book> <at ?y>These patterns actually stand for the slot fillers given below:PI: (subject ?x (class person))(verb (root lay) (modifier down))(object (determiner the)(noun law))P2: (subject ?x (class person))(verb (root throw))(object ?z (marker at) (class person)))(object (determiner the)(noun book))This notation is described in greater detail in \[Zernik85b\].2.3 Phrase Acquisition through Generalization andRefinementPhrases are acquired in a process of hypothesis formationand error correction.
The program generates and refines hy-potheses about both the linguistic pattern, and the conceptualmeaning of phrases.
For example, in acquiring the phrasecar ry  the  water, RINA first uses the phrase already existingin the lexicon, but it is too general apattern and does not makesense in the context.
?x carry:verb ?z:phys-obj <for ?y>Clearly, such a syntactic error stems from a conceptual error.Once corrected, the hypothesis :?x carry:verb <the water> <for ?y>The meaning of a phrase is constructed by identifying salientfeatures in the context.
Such features are given in terms ofscripts, relationships, plan/goal situations and emotions.
Forexample, carry the water is given in terms of agency goalsituation (?x executes a plan for ?x) on the background ofrivalry relationship (?x and ?y are opponents).
Only bydetecting these elements in the context can the program learnthe meaning of the phrase.3.
Conceptual RepresentationThe key for phrase acquisition is appropriate conceptualrepresentation, which accounts for various aspects of phrasemeanings.Consider the phrase to throw the book in the followingparagraph:$2: The famous mobster avoided prosecution foryears.
Finally they threw the book at him fortax evasion.We analyze here the components in the representation f thisphrase.3.1 ScriptsBasically, the figurative phrase depicts the trial scriptwhich is given below:(a) The prosecutor says his arguments to the judge(b) The defendant says his arguments to the judge(c) The judge determines the outcome, either:(I) to punish the defendant(2) not to punish the.
defendantThis script involves a Judge, a Defendant, and a Prosecutor,and it describes a sequence of events.
Within the script, thephrase points to a single event, the decision to punish the de-fendant.
However, this event presents only a rough approxi-mation of the real meaning which requires further efinement.
(a) The phrase may be applied in situations that are moregeneral than the trial script itself.
For example:Sl0: When they caught him cheating in an exam forthe third time, the dean of the school de-cided to throw the book at him.Although the context does not contain the specific trialscript, the social authority which relates the judge and thedefendant exists also between the dean and John.
(b) The phrase in $2 asserts not only that the mobster waspunished by the judge, but also that a certain prosecutionstrategy was applied against him.1083.2 Specific Plans and GoalsIn order to accommodate such knowledge, scripts incor-porate specific planning situations.
For example, in prosecutinga person, there are three options, a basic rule and two devia-tions:(a) Basically, for each law violation, assign a penalty asprescribed in the book.
(b) However, in order to loosen a prescribed penalty, mitigat-ing circumstances may be taken into account.
(c) And on the other hand, in order to toughen a prescribedpenalty, additional violations may be thrown in.In $2 the phrase conveys the concept hat the mobster is pun-ished for tax evasion since they cannot prosecute him for hismore serious crimes.
It is the selection of this particularprosecution plan which is depicted by the phrase.
The phraserepresentation is given below,phrasepattern ?x:person throw:verb<the book> <at ?y:person>situation ($trial (prosecution ?x)(defendant ?y))concept (act (select-plan(actor prosecution)(plan(ulterior-crime(crime ?c)(crime-of ?y)))))(result (thwart-goal(goal ?g)(goal-of ?y)))where ulterior-crime is the third prosecution plan above.3.3 RelationshipsThe authority relationship \[Schank78, Carbonel179\] is per-vasive in phrase meanings, appearing in many domains:judge-defendant, teacher-student, employer-employee, parent-child, etc.
The existence of authority creates certain expecta-tionsi if X presents an authority for Y, then:(a) X issues rules which Y has to follow.
(b) Y is expected to follow these rules.
(c) Y is expected to support goals of X.
(d) X may punish Y if Y violates the rules in (a).
(e) X cannot dictate actions of Y; X can only appeal to Y toact in a certain way.
(,9 X can delegate his authority to Z which becomes an au-thority for Y.In S10, the dean of the school presents an authority for John.John violated the rules of the school and is punished by thedean.
More phrases involving authority are given by the fol-lowing examples.511: I thought that parking ticket was unfair so Itook it up with the Judge.S12: My boss wanted us to stay in the office until9pm every evening to finish the project ontime.
Everybody was upset, but nobody stoodup to the boss.513: Jenny's father lald down the law: no more latedates.The representation of the phrase take it up with, for exam-ple, is given below:phrasepattern ?x:person <take:verb up>?z:problem <with ?y:person>situation (authority (high ?y) (low ?x))concept (act (auth-appeal(actor ?x)(to ?y) (object ?z))(purpose (act (auth-decree(actor ?y)(to ?x)(object ?z)))(result (support-plan(plan-of ?x))))The underlying situation is an authority relationship betweenX and Y.
The phrase implies that X appeals to Y so that Ywill act in favor of X.3.4 Abstract Planning SituationsGeneral planning situations, such as agency, agreement,goal-conflict and goal-coincidence \[Wilensky83\] are addressedin the examples below.S1: The Democrats in the house carried the water forReagan in his tax-reform bill.The phrase in S1 is described using both rivalry and agency.In contrast o expectations stemming from rivalry, the actorserves as an agent in executing his opponent's plans.
Therepresentation f the phrase is given below:phrasepattern ?x:person carry:verb<the water ?z:plan> <for ?y:person>situation (rivalry (actorl ?x) (actor2 ?y))concept (agency (agent ?x)(plan ?z)(plan-of ?y))Many other phrases describe situations at the abstract goal/planlevel.
Consider $14:S14: I planned to do my CS20 project with Fred.
Ibacked out of it when I heard that he hadflunked CS20 twice in the past.Back out of  depicts an agreed plan which is cancelled by oneparty in contradiction to expectations stemming from theagreement.S15: John' s strongest feature in arguing is hisabil ity to  fal lbaekon his quick wit.Fa l l  back on introduces a recovery of a goal through an al-ternative plan, in spite of a failure of the originally selectedplan.516: My standing in the tennis club deterioratedsince I was bogged down wlth CS20 assignmentsthe whole summer.In bog down, a goal competition over the actor's time existsbetween a major goal (tennis) and a minor goal (CS20).
Themajor goal fails due to the efforts invested in the minor goal.1093.5 Emotions and AttitudesIn text comprehension, emotions \[Dyer83, Mueller85\] andattitudes are accounted for in two ways: (a) they are generatedby goal/planning situations, such as goal failure and goalachievement, and (b) they generate goals, and influence planselection.
Some examples of phrases involving emotions aregiven below.
Humiliation is experienced by a person whenother people achieve a goal which he falls to achieve.
Thephrase in S17 depicts humiliation which is caused when Johnreminds the speaker of his goal situation:S17: I fai led my CS20 class.
My friend John rubbednlynose lnit by tel l ing me that he got an A+.Resentment is experienced by a person when a certain goal ofhis is not being satisfied.
This goal situation causes the execu-tion of plans by that person to deteriorate.
The phrase in S18depicts uch an attitude:S18: Since clients started to complain about John,his boss asked him if he had a chip on hisshoulder.Embarrassment is experienced by a person when his planfailure is revealed to other people.
The phrase in S19, depictsembarrassment which is caused when a person is prompted tomake up his mind between several bad options.519: Ted Koppe l  put his guest on the spot when he askedhim if he was ready to denounce appartheidin South Africa.In all the examples above, it is not the emotion itself which isconveyed by the phrase.
Rather, the concept conveys a certaingoal situation which causes that emotion.
For example, in $20(rub one' s nose) a person does something which causes thespeaker to experience humiliation.4.
Learning Phrase MeaningsConsider the situation when a new phrase is first encoun-tered by the program:User: The Democrats in the house carried the waterfor Reagan's tax-reform bill.R INA:  They moved wateryUser: No.
They carried the water for him.P~\[NA: They helped him pass the bill.Three sources take pan in forming the new concept, (a) thelinguistic lues, (b) the context, and (c) the metaphor.4.1 The ContextThe context prior to reading the phrase includes two con-cepts:(a) Reagan has a goal of passing a law.
(b) The Democrats are Reagan's rivals-they are expected tothwart his goals, his legislation in particular.These concepts provide the phrase situation which specifiesthe context required for the application of the phrase.4.2 The Literal InterpretationThe literal interpretation of carried the water as"moved water" does not make sense given the goal/plan situa-tion in the context.
As a result, RINA generates the literal in-terpretation and awaits confirmation from the user.
If the userrepeats the utterance or generates a negation, then RINA gen-erates a number of utterances, based on the current context, inhypothesizing a novel phrase interpretation.4.3 The MetaphorSince the action of moving water does not make senseliterally, it is examined at the level of plans and goals: Movingwater from location A to B is a low-level plan which supportsother high-level plans (i.e., using the water in location B).Thus, at the goal/plan level, the phrase is perceived as: "theyexecuted a low-level plan as his agents" (the agency is suggest-ed by the prepositional phrase: for his tax-reform bill;i.e., they did an act.for his goal).
This is taken as the phraseconcept.4.4 The Constructed MeaningThe new phrase contains three parts:(a) The phrase pattern is extracted from the example sen-tence:?x carry:verb <the water> <for ?y>(b) The phrase situation is extracted from the underlyingcontext:(rivalry (actorl ?x) (actor2 ?y))(c) The phrase concept is taken from the metaphor:(plan-agency (actor ?x) (plan ?z) (plan-of ?y))Thus, the phrase means that in a rivalry situation, an opponentserved as an agent in carrying out a plan.5.
Future Work and ConclusionsThe phrasal approach elevates language processing frominteraction among single words to interaction among entirephrases.
Although it increases substantially the size of the lexi-con, this chunking simplifies the complexity of parsing sinceclauses in the text include fewer modules which interact infewer ways.
The phrasal approach does reduce the power ofthe program in handling non-standard uses of phrases.
For ex-ample, consider the situation where a mobster kidnaps a judge,points the gun at him, and says: No funny book you couldthrow at me now would do you any good!*.
Our currentparser would certainly fail in matching the syntactic patternand inferring the ironic meaning.
The analysis of such a sen-tence would require that the program associate the two exist-ing phrases, the general throw something and the figurativethrow the book, and make inferences about he pun meant bythe mobster.
Such examples how that it is difficult to capturehuman behavior through a single parsing paradigm.
* This example isattributed toan anonymous referee.110Parsing text is a futile task unless it addresses the ultimateobjective of language processing, namely mapping text intoconceptual representation.
To this end, we have shown thestructure of a lexicon which provides the association betweensyntactic patterns with their semantic oncepts.
However, dueto the huge size of the English language, not all phrases can begiven at the outset.
A parsing program is required to handleunknown phrases as they are encountered in the text.
In RINAwe have shown how new phrases can be acquired from exam-ples in context.Phrase acquisition from context raises questions regardingthe volume of knowledge required for language processing.
Aphrase such as throw the book requires highly specializedknowledge involving sentencing strategies in court.
Now, thisis only one figurative phrase out of many.
Thus, in order tohandle figurative phrases in general, aprogram must ultimatelyhave access to all the knowledge of a socially mature person.Fortunately, learning makes this problem more tractible.
In theprocess of phrase acquisition, phrase meaning is elevated fromthe specific domain in which the phrase has originated to a lev-el of abstract goal situations.
For example, once throw thebook is understood as the act of authority-decree, thenknowledge of the trial situation o longer needs to be accessed.The phrase is well comprehended in other domains: my bossthrew the book at me, his parents threw the book athim, her teacher threw the book at her, etc.
At thatlevel, a finite number of goal situations can support he appli-cation of figurative phrases across a very large number ofdomains.\[Becker75\]\[Carbonel179\]\[Dyer83\]\[Fillmore86\]\[Kay79\]ReferencesBecker, Joseph D., "The Phrasal Lexi-con," pp.
70-73 in Proceedings Interdisci-plinary Workshop on Theoretical Issues inNatural Language Processing, Cambridge,Massachusets (June 1975).Carbonell, J. G., "Subjective Understand-ing: Computer Models of Belief Systems,"TR-150, Yale, New Haven CT (1979).Ph.D.
Dissertation.Dyer, Michael G., In-Depth Understand-ing: A Computer Model of Integrated Pro-cessing for Narrative Comprehension,MIT Press, Cambridge, MA (1983).Fillmore, C., P. Kay, and M. O'Connor,Regularity and Idiomaticity in Grammati-cal Constructions: The Case of Let alne,UC Berkeley, Department of Linguistics(1986).
Unpublished Manuscript.Kay, Martin, "Functional Grammar," pp.142-158 in Proceedings 5th Annual Meet-ing of the Berkeley Linguistic Society,Berkeley, California (1979).\[Mueller84\]\[Mueller85\]\[Pawley83\]\[Schank78\]\[Wilensky83\]\[Wilensky84\]\[Zernik85a\]\[Zernik85b\]\[Zernik86\]Mueller, E. and U. Zernik, "GATE Refer-ence Manual," UCLA-AI-84-5, ComputerScience, AI Lab (1984).Mueller, E. and M. Dyer, "Daydreamingin Humans and Computers," in Proceed-ings 9th International Joint Conference onArtificial Intelligence, Los Angeles CA(1985).Pawley, A. and H. Syder, "Two Puzzlesfor Linguistic Theory: Nativelike Selectionand Nativelike Fluency," in Language andCommunication, ed.
J. C. Richards R. W.Schmidt, Longman, London (1983).Schank, R. and J. Carbonell, "The Gettys-burg Address: Representing Social andPolitical Acts," TR-127, Yale University,Depatment of Computer Science, NewHaven CT (1978).Wilensky, Robert, Planning and Under-standing, Addison-Wesley, Massachusetts(1983).Wilensky, R., Y. Arens, and D. Chin,"Talking to UNIX in English: an Over-view of UC," Communications of theACM 27(6), pp.574-593 (June 1984).Zernik, Lift and Michael G. Dyer, "Learn-ing Phrases in Context," in ProceedingsThe 3rd Machine Learning Workshop,New-Brunswick NJ (June 1985).Zernik, Uri and Michael G. Dyer, "To-wards a Self-Extending Phrasal Lexicon,"in Proceedings 23rd Annual Meeting of theAssociation for Computational Linguistics,Chicago IL (July 1985).Zernik, U. and M. G. Dyer, "Disambigua-tion and Acquisition using the Phrasal Lex-icon," in Proceedings l lth InternationalConference on Computational Linguistics,Bonn Germany (1986).111
