JAPANESE PROSODIC  PHRASING AND INTONATION SYNTHESISMary E. Beckman 1and Janet B. PierrehnmbertLinguistics and Artificial Intelligence ResearchAT&T Bell Laboratories,600 Mountain Ave, Murray Hill, NJ 07974ABSTRACTA computer program for synthesizing Japanese fundamentalfrequency contours implements our theory of Japanese intonation.This theory provides a complete qualitative description of theknown characteristics of Japanese intonation, as well as aquantitative model of tone-scaling and timing precise enough totranslate straightforwardly into a computational lgorithm.
Animportant aspect of the description is that various features of theintonation pattern are designated to be phonological properties ofdifferent types of phrasal units in a hierarchical organization.This phrasal organization is known to play an important role inparsing speech.
Our research shows it also to be one reflex ofintonational prominence, and hence of focus and other discoursestructures.
The qualitative features of each phrasal level and theirimplementation in the synthesis program are described.1.
INTRODUCTIONIn this paper, we will present a computer program forsynthesizing fundamental frequency contours for standardJapanese.
Fundamental frequency (fO) is the paramount physicalcorrelate of the sensation of pitch, and, in many languages, thetime course of f0 is one of the primary phonetic manifestations ofintonation.
This is especially true in Japanese, where durationand amplitude do not have the consequential role incommunicating intonational structure that they do in English(Beckman, 1986).
Accordingly, a program for synthesizingJapanese f0 contours is tantamount to a computationalimplementation f a theory of Japanese intonation.The theory that we have implemented in our synthesisprogram is based on a review of the literature in English andJapanese, and on the results of an extensive series of experimentsin which we examined and made f0 measurements of about 2500intonation contours in order to resolve some of the many problemsnot answered in the literature.
These experiments have uncoveredimportant facts about the hierarchical structure underlyingJapanese prosody and about the manifestations of focus inJapanese.
We have incorporated these discoveries in our synthesisprogram, which, we believe, covers all known qualitativecharacteristics of Japanese intonational melody.
Informallistening tests by Japanese speakers indicate that the f0 contourswhich the program produces ound quite natural.
In some cases,the synthesized contours were even preferred to the genuinehuman intonation contours on which they are modeled.Although the main concern of our research was to provide anaccurate phonological and phonetic characterization of Japaneseintonational structure that could be used in the automaticcomputation of f0 contours, our description of Japanese prosodicphrasing and intonation synthesis is also of direct relevance toissues in several other areas, including the role of prosodic1.
Present address: Ohio State University, Department of Linguistics, 1841Millikin Rd, Columbus, OH 43210.phrasing in the parsing of speech, the relationship betweenintonational patterns and discourse phenomena such as focus, andthe development of a more accurate understanding of thephonological mechanisms of intonation as a universal componentof human speech.
The computer implementation f the theory inturn should provide a practical tool for further research in theseareas.
These other background issues are discussed in Sections1.1-1.3.
Section 2 then summarizes the characteristics of Japaneseintonation that we have incorporated in our synthesis program,and Section 3 gives a detailed account of the program itself.1.1 Prosodic Phrasing and Syntactic ParsingProsodic organization of the sort that we discovered forJapanese bears strongly on current issues in syntactic parsing.
Itis well known that intonational phrase boundaries can play acrucial role in parsing speech.
For example, if the sentence in (1)is said without any internal phrase boundaries, it produces agarden path; the human parser interprets everal bugs as theobject of left, and then is unable to arrive at a syntactic role forthe final verb phrase.
(1) When we left several bugs in the program still hadn't beencorrected.On the other hand, if the sentence is produced with the intonationbreak indicated by the comma in (2), several bugs is readilyinterpreted as the subject of the main clause.
(2) When we left, several bugs in the program still hadn't beencorrected.Intonation breaks can also be used to disambiguate s ntenceswith ambiguous scope of negation or conjunction.
Thus inexample (3), the break represented by the comma forces thereading in which the scope of negation is the main verb clause(Because they were mad, they didn't leave), as opposed to thereading in which the scope of negation is the subordinate clause (Itwas not because they were mad that they left).
(3) They didn't leave, because they were mad.Similarly in (4), the break after mnemonic rhyme prevents ublimefrom modifying free meter, whereas under the alternative phrasingin (5), sublime is taken to modify both conjuncts.
(4) Sublime mnemonic rhyme, and free meter.
(5) Sublime, mnemonic rhyme and free meter.In reviewing these examples, we have spoken as if there wereonly one type of intonational phrase boundary.
And the mostsubstantial current proposal about the role of intonationalphrasing in the parsing of Japanese (Marcus and Hindle, 1985)takes into account only a single level of phrasing.
In actuality,however, Japanese and English both have several different typesof intonational phrase, which are related to each otherhierarchically.
~ As Marcus and Hindle point out to us, majormodifications to their proposal will be necessary to accommodatethe role of the complete hierarchical intonational structure inparsing.1731.2 Focus and Discourse StructureAnother major result of our experiments was to be able todescribe the manifestations of focus in terms of the phonologicalstructures we discovered.
We use the word focus here in the senseof Chomsky (1971), to characterize words or phrases which areintonationally marked as prominent.
This contrasts with usage inthe AI literature, where the focus space is used to describe ntitieswhich are assumed to be salient with respect o a given discoursesegment.
However, the concepts are related to each other via thebroader concept of the attentional structure, as described in Groszand Sidner (1985).Broadly speaking, intonational prominence is used to modifythe attentional state.
A word or phrase that is marked byintonational prominence is made phonetically more salient; itsprosodic coloring is more attention-demanding than it otherwisewould be.
One reason for a word or phrase to receive intonationalprominence is that it refers to something which is being added tothe focus space.
Or, if the entity referred to is already in thefocus space, the word or phrase may be made intonationallyprominent because the referent is under contrast or in some otherway plays a marked role in the utterance.
The presence orabsence of intonational prominence is thus very much analogousto the use of full referring expressions versus pronominal forms.The analogy breaks down, however, when the range of possibleuse is considered.
Pronominal forms and other sorts of anaphoracan be used in place of full referring expressions only in somesyntactic categories and positions.
Intonational prominence, bycontrast, can be absent or present on any word.
Therefore, thestudy of how intonational prominence is used promises to makecrucial contributions to developing a theory of attentionalstructure.
But an accurate controlled study of the use ofintonational prominence is impossible without an exactcharacterization f the form of intonational prominence.
A precisephonological and phonetic description of intonational structure isthus an important prerequisite to the development of theories ofdiscourse structure.We also note that it is crucial to take focus, in the linguisticsense, into account in addressing the role of intonational phrasingin parsing.
One of the main results of our experiments was thediscovery that focus systematically affects prosodic phrasing inJapanese.
Any parser intended for use with real speech must beable to accommodate the way in which focus and syntacticstructure interact o determine the observed phrasing.1.3 Japanese and English IntonationA final motivation for our description of Japanese was toContribute to a more universal understanding of intonationalstructure.
Our work is in some sense an extension of work on anearlier model of English intonation (Pierrehumbert, 1980, 1981;Liberman and Pierrehumbert, 1984; Anderson, Pierrehumbert,and Liberman, 1984).
We first became interested in synthesizingf0 contours in Japanese because there are known to be formaldifferences between Japanese and English prosody.
We wished todiscover what aspects of a theory developed for English prosodywould carry over to a language which differed in many ways, andhow such shared principles would interact with language-specificprinciples.1.3.1 Basic Principles - -  One principle that can be assumed tobe universal is the notion that intonation is separable from thetext of an utterance not just physically but also linguistically.When a speaker produces an utterance with a give intonationpattern, he is implementing two separate strings of phonologicalelements in parallel.
The textual string of distinctive segmental2.
Section 2 summarizes our results on the levels of phrasing found in Japanese.Beckman and Pierrehumbert (forthcoming) give a detailed comparison to theanalogous levels of phrasing in English.events that is realized in the spectral patterns of the utterance isconceptually distinct from the string of distinctive melodic eventsthat is realized in the f0 contour.
The physical implementationsof these two representational strings are coordinated by aphonological specification of the alignment between the textualevents (phonemic segments and phrasal groups of segments) andthe melodic events (tones and tone configurations).1.3.2 English Tone Configurations - -  In English, as is wellknown, there are two types of basic tone configurations.
Sometone configurations, which are called pitch accents, are placed onespecially prominent syllables in a phrase.
If the placement of thespecial prominences shifts because of emphasis or focus, the pitchaccents move along with them.
Other tone configurations areplaced at the edges of phrases without regard for the locations ofthe prominent syllables within the phrases.
If the phrasingchanges, these tones must also move.
For both types of toneconfiguration, the speaker can select among several differentpatterns.
His choice appears to convey a message aboutpropositional attitude.
For example, one pattern might suggestthat the speaker is impatiently repeating what he feels should beobvious to the listener while another would imply that he isuncertain about the relevance of what he is saying, as illustratedin Figure I.1.3.3 Stress - -  Japanese phrasal prosody differs from English inseveral crucial ways.
First, Japanese does not have lexical stressas English does.
The prominent syllables that carry pitch accentsin English are marked also by a rhythmic salience - -  an extraduration and loudness that adds another sort of prosodic350325500275250:>25200175180125I0075a.
surpnse- redudoncy  contourHilY L .on orange bo I I - gown500275250225200175150125I0075- b. scooped accentL*+H L*+Hon orange  bol l  - gownFigure 1.
Fundamental frequency contours for two intonationpatterns for the utterance An orange ballgown.
The tones inthe melody are transcribed using the notation ofPierrehumbert (1980, 1981), with "*" for the tone in a pitchaccent that associates to the stressed syllable and "?/o" for aboundary tone.
Version (a) is a "surprise-redundancy contour"with a L* pitch accent on the stressed syllable in another, a H*pitch accent on orange, and a L% boundary tone.
Version (b)implies uncertainty, with a scooped rising accent (L*+H) oneach word followed by a L H% phrase-final boundary sequence174prominence to the intonational prominence of the pitch accent.Especially prominent elements in a Japanese utterance can also belonger and louder, but unlike in English, this rhythmicprominence is not a lexical feature.
That is, words in Japanese donot have the lexieal markings of stress that in English give arhythmic prominence to the first syllable in seven and the secondsyllable in eleven even in the absence of a pitch accent.
Instead,Japanese has a lexical distinction between accented andunaccented words.1.3.4 Japanese Lexlcal Accent - -  Accented words have afundamental frequency fall at some designated syllable; aroundthe lexically designated location there is a sharp descent from arelatively higher pitch level to a relatively lower one.
Werepresent this fall as a sequence of a high tone and a low tone, orH L, as illustrated in the following sehematization f the accentedword yamaza 'kura:(6) yamaza 'ku  raIIILHere the line coming up from the H indicates that the high tone isassociated to the designated syllable za'.
That is, the realizationof the H tone in the resulting f0 contour must occur concurrentlywith the production of the syllable's segments.
The relativelylower pitch level of the L immediately following the associated Hresults in the pitch fall of the accent.Unaccented words differ from accented words in having nosyllable designated to carry the H of the accent fall, and hence nolexically associated tone, as in:(7) mura  sa ki i roSince the presence or absence of an accent IIL sequence is aproperty of the component lexical items, an entire sentence mayhave no accents; this contrasts with the situation in English,where it is impossible to utter a sentence without placing a pitchaccent on at least one syllable.1.3.5 Choice of Tune and Phrasing - -  Another importantdifference is that, utterance-internally in Japanese, there is noparadigmatic hoice among different tone patterns to expressdifferences in meaning such as uncertainty or impatient rejoinder.In other words, the shape of the accent IIL contour is a propertyof the lexical feature accented, and there is nothing correspondingto the choice of tone pattern for the pitch accent in English.
Atthe end of the phrase, however, there is a distinction betweenrising and failing contours, which can convey the sort of meaningsexpressed by the choice of tone patterns at the edges of phrases inEnglish.
Because of the lexical origin of the phrase-internal tonefeatures in Japanese, the system of phrasal intonation is relativelyimpoverished compared to English.
Other than the limited choiceof pattern type at the end of the phrase, the only dimensions ofvariation seem to be different choices of phrasing and of pitchrange.
Our experiments were designed to explore how phrasing isconveyed and what the consequences of local manipulations ofpitch range are.2.
THE HIERARCHY OF PHRASE LEVELSIn our data, we have found evidence for three levels of phrasingmarked by f0 features.
We call these three types of phrases theaccentual phrase, the intermediate phrase, and the utterance.2.1 The Accentual PhraseThe lowest level, the accentual phrase, is a phrasal unitcontaining at most one accent.
This unit may be a single word.However, when words are combined into sentences, it is quiteusual for some to lose their status as separate accentual phrases.Noun-noun compounds typically form a single accentual phrase, asdo adjective-noun sequences or sequences of direct object andgoverning verb.Apart from the possible occurrence of an accent, the hallmarkof an accentual phrase is an f0 rise at its beginning.
We accountfor this rise by positing a L% tone (the boundary L~ s markingthe phrase boundary, and a H tone (the phrasal I~ associated witha designated syllable near the beginning of the phrase.
If thesample accented and unaccented words shown above in (6) and (7)were produced as complete accentual phrases, they might berepresented as in (8):(8) yamaza 'ku  ra mu ra sa ki i ro(L%) H HI, L% (L%) H L%The tones that we have represented here are the only ones weposit for the accentual phrase.
4 We interpret f0 patterns at placesnot occupied by the indicated tones as arising from a phoneticprocess which interpolates between the assigned target values forthese tones.This notion of phonetic interpolation differs radically frommore traditional representations of the accentual phrase.
Studiesof Japanese in the school of modern generative phonology haveasserted that the accentual phrase is the domain of a processcalled tone spreading, whereby tones are copied from theiroriginally specified places to associate to every syllable in thephrase.
Thus in accented phrases, the L tone of the accent ismade to associate with all syllables following the accent in thephrase.
The H tone, conversely, is made to associate with allsyllables preceding the accent, except possibly for the first, whichmight be associated instead to a L tone (corresponding to the L~that we take as marking the preceding phrase boundary).
Inunaccented phrases, similarly, the phrasal H tone is thought o beassociated to all the syllables after the first.
These assumptionsgive rise to representations like those in (9).
The phoneticprediction of such a representation is that a spread tone will berealized as a sustained pitch level over the syllables to whieh it iscopied.
(9) yamaza 'ku  ra mu ra sa ki i roIVVL H L L I-IOur data, however, demonstrate hat Japanese actually has nosuch rules of tone spreading.
For example, in an utterance-medialunaccented phrase, there is a smooth fall from the phrasal H tonenear the beginning of the phrase to the L% at the boundarybefore the next accentual phrase.
The slope of this fall variesinversely with the separation of the two tones, as would beexpected if a simple linear interpolation between fixed end pointvalues were stretched to occupy a larger and larger distance.
Thisgeneralization is illustrated in Figure 2, which shows f0 contoursfor segmentally matched unaccented sentence-medial phrases with1, 2, 3, 5, and 6 syllables intervening between the phrasal H andthe boundary L~ for the next accentual phrase.
Slopes ofregression lines fit over the H-L~o transition are indicated.
Theinverse correlation between these slopes and the number ofsyllables in the phrase is not compatible with the notion that thephrasal H tone has spread to associate with all following syllablesup to the boundary L~0.
It would arise naturally, however, by a3.
Here we use the % notation used by Pierrehumbert (1980) to designate aboundary tone.4.
Note that we put the first L% tone in each phrase in parentheses, because weconsider it to be an edge feature of the preceding accentual phrase rather thanof the accentual phrase being represented.175phonetic process which interpolates linearly between the values ofthe H on the second syllable and the L~.The finding that Japanese has no tone spreading is particularlysignificant, since most modern theories of phonology assume thatsurface phonological representations (those which are interpretedphonetically) are fully specified, meaning that a specific feature'value must be assigned wherever a feature of some sort could beassigned a value.
There has been considerable controversy aboutwhat phonological rules are necessary to generate the correct fullyspecified representations.
Our results how, however, that at leastfor tone, the surface representations are only partially specified.That is, only some of the syllables that could in theory be assignedtonal values actually have associated tones.
This is consistentwith a view in which the surface representations are merelydescriptions of the phonetic form, in a spirit similar to whatMarcus et al (1983) have proposed for surface syntacticrepresentation.2.2 The Intermediate PhraseThe partially specified tone patterns at the accentual phraselevel are grouped together prosodically into units at the nexthigher level of phrasing, that of the intermediate phrase.
Anintermediate phrase consists of one or more accentual phrases(only rarely more than three).
An intermediate phrase boundaryis often marked by a pause or p6endo-panse (a pre-pausal "windingdown" of production speeds unaccompanied by any actualmomentary cessation of production).
Also, the L~ boundary tonefor the last accentual phrase in an intermediate phrase ismarkedly lower than at a medial accentual phrase boundary.Perhaps the most salient and systematic haracteristic of theintermediate phrase, however, is that it is the domain of a processknown as eatathesis.
Catathesis compresses the pitch rangefollowing an accent.
This compression affects all tones up to theintermediate phrase boundary, but it does not propagate to thetones belonging to the following intermediate phrase.
5 If anintermediate phrase contains more than one accent, the multipleapplications of catathesis cumulate, so that the pitch range can beextremely compressed by the end of the phrase.An important finding of our experiments i that phrasing atthis level is a fairly reliable indicator of focus.
Even in syntacticstructures where no phrase break is normally expected in neutralrenditions, focus will introduce an intermediate phrase boundaryright before the focused word or phrase.
For example, in one ofour experiments, ubjects consistently introduced an intermediatephrase boundary between the words in an adjective-noun sequencewhen the discourse context gave the noun a contrastive mphasis.Often this striking use of phrasing was accompanied by localexpansion of the pitch range on the focused item, affecting the f0values of its phrasal H, accent tones, and boundary L~0.
In asizeable number of utterances, however, the change in phrasingwas the only consequence of focus.We suspect hat this relationship between phrasing and focusreveals something about the prominence structure internal to theintermediate phrase.
In English, the last accented item in aphrase is generally agreed to be the strongest one.
If, in Japanese,the strongest item in a phrase is instead in first position, onestrategy for marking intonational prominence would be tostructure the phrasing of the utterance so as to place the focuseditem at the beginning of an intermediate phrase.
In English,focused items are sometimes set off by phrase boundaries in thisway, but this use of phrasing is not nearly as characteristic as themanipulation of local pitch range and of syllable duration andamplitude to put a stronger rhythmic "beat" on the lexicallystressed syllable.
We believe that this contrast between English8.
Catathesis does affect the L% at the boundary between two intermediatephrases.
This is why we consider the L% to be a property of the end of thepreceding accentual phrase rather than of the beginning of the next accentualphrase, as shown above in representation (8).- i  .268376127731....... -0 .55oao7-0.
4200854mnr iv~ no mawar i  no nma'war~.q~nF igure  2.
Fundamental frequency contours for five segmentallymatched unaccented phrases with varying numbers of syllablesbetween the phrasal H and the boundary L%.
The dashed linein each panel is a regression curve fit to the f0 values betweenthe two tones, and the number in the upper right is the slopeof the regression curve.and Japanese is related to a difference in prosodic structure.
Thefocused item in Japanese cannot be made more prominent bymanipulating the rhythmic prominence of the stressed syllable,because Japanese does not have stress in the sense that Englishdoes.2.3 The UtteranceOur third level of phrasing is the utterance.
The phonologicalmark of an utterance is that it has an initial L% boundary tone.It is also the type of phrase which can be ended with a questionrise, a pattern which we account for by the insertion of a H%boundary following the L% ending the last accentual phrase.In our experiments, the utterance also seemed to be thedomain for two phonetic processes affecting the pitch range.
Oneis declination, which gradually lowers the pitch range as afunction of distance from the beginning of the utterance.
Unlikecatathesis, it operates without regard to what tones are present.The other is final lowering, which further lowers the pitch range inanticipation of the end of the utterance.
Questions exhibitdeclination but not final lowering.
There is some reason tosuppose that they are subject to final raising, which expands thepitch range at the end of the utterance.
In particular, the H%boundary tone ending a question is considerably higher than Htones elsewhere in the sentence.Final lowering is seen in English as well as in Japanese, andwas originally supposed to define a comparable utterance levelthere.
More recently, Hirschberg and Pierrehumbert (1986) have176proposed that final lowering is not a prosodic property specific toa particular phonological phrase level in English, but rather is amore direct phonetic expression of discourse structure.
We nowsuspect hat final lowering in Japanese is similar, and in Beckmanand Pierrehumbert (forthcoming), we suggest that declination alsois such a paralinguistic discourse phenomenon.
In the currentimplementation of the intonation synthesizer we treat finallowering and declination as utterance-level properties.
On theother hand, we do make the amount of lowering in each utterancea user-controllable variable, so that it should not be difficult totest these more recent suggestions.2.4 Other Miscellaneous EffectsIn addition to the various phrase-specific f0 features discussedso far, there are certain other qualitative differences among tones.For example, our experiments showed that the H tone of thelexical accent is generally higher than the phrasal H of theaccentual phrase.
We account for this difference by giving theaccent H intrinsically more tonal prominence.
That is, weautomatically assign it a higher target value within the local pitchrange.Another important effect is that when the initial syllable in thefollowing accentual phrase is lexically long or accented, thepreceding boundary L~o is weak.
That is, it undergoes a phoneticlenition that causes the tone to be realized in the f0 contour withonly a very short duration and with a target f0 value that isrelatively higher than it otherwise would be.
(As in English, lowtones are made more tonally prominent by lowering.
)Finally, the tonal prominence of a boundary L% reflects theboundary strength; the L~o boundary tone is more tonallyprominent (lower) at an intermediate phrase than at a mereaccentual phrase boundary, and still more prominent at anutterance boundary.3.
THE F0 SYNTHESIZERThe phrasal f0 features outlined thus far are generatedautomatically by our synthesis program from a user-providedscript that identifies the locations of the appropriate phraseboundaries and lexieally determined accents in the time pattern ofspeech segments for an utterance.
Thus at the accentual phraselevel, the synthesizer inserts the phrasal H and boundary L~ atthe appropriate places relative to the phrase ends, and assigns theH of the accent o the designated syllable along with the accent Lat the appropriate time delay.
At the intermediate phrase level,the program triggers a compression of the pitch range at eachaccent, lowering the values of all subsequent tones until the end ofthe phrase.
And at the utterance level, it sequentially lowers thef0 values of the tones to generate the rule-prescribed time coursesof declination and final lowering.
The techniques used toimplement hese effects are quite similar to those used in theEnglish synthesizer developed earlier by Anderson, Pierrehumbert,and Liberman (1984), and are applied in the same order.3.1 The Schematlzed f0 ContourFirst, the input routines parse the user-provided script, fillingin system defaults for unspecified values to produce a set of valuesfor speaker variables and phrasal structures.
Once the the scripthas been interpreted, the next step is to construct a schematicversion of the f0 contour in which tones appear as level stretches.The values that must be computed in constructing the schematicare the temporal location of each stretch and its duration and f0value.3.1.1 Timing - -  The location and duration of each tone isdetermined by the time pattern of the speech segments, and byour theory of the rules which align tones with segments.
Forexample, the stretch for a medial L% begins at the end of the lastsegment before the relevant phrasal boundary.
The difference intiming between a weak L~ and a strong L~v (see Section 2.4) isaccomplished by giving a weak L~o only a point duration and astrong L~o the "standard tone duration" (a speaker- and rate-specific value roughly the length of a short syllable).
Thebeginning of the following phrasal H can then be locatedimmediately after the end of the L~o.In the present version of the synthesizer, the "standard toneduration" is the only possible duration for a tone that is not apoint.
The user can specify its actual millisecond value in hisscript for the utterance, or he can include it in a file of user-defined defaults for the speaker, or, if the system-provided defaultis appropriate for the speaker and rate, he can leave the vMueunspecified.
6 The locations and types of the various phraseboundaries and the location of the accent, on the other hand, arespecific to an utterance, and must be specified by the user in theutterance script.3.1.2 Rules for the f0 Value - -  The f0 value of each tone isdetermined by the interaction of relationships uch as thefollowing:High versus Low: A low tone is lower than a high tone in thesame local pitch range setting.Intrinsic prominence of accents: The H in an accent is higherthan the phrasal H tone.Boundary tone weakening: The L~o boundary tone is higher ifthe first syllable of the upcoming phrase is long or accented.Boundary strength: The L~o boundary tone is lower at anintermediate phrase boundary than at an accentual phraseboundary, and lower yet at an utterance boundary.In the synthesizer, all of these qualitative differences have beenmade precise, with numerical values for the various relationsestimated from the results of our experiments.
Obviously, severalrules interact to control the value for any single tone.
Forinstance, a boundary tone might be raised because the followingphrase begins with a long syllable, but lowered because it is at anintermediate phrase boundary.3.1.3 The Tone-Scallng Domain - -  The tone-scaling domainwithin which these rules operate is a normalized transformed hertzdomain, which reflects the overall choice of pitch range and theintonational prominence of each accentual phrase.
The lowerbound of the tone-scaling domain is defined by a reference line (r),which is set to the lowest value in the speaker's range.
The upperbound of the overall pitch range is a high-tone llne for theintermediate phrase (h), which is set to the highest possible H tonevMue in that phrase.
The size of the overall pitch range is thush - r .
By raising h, this overall pitch range is expanded for"speaking up" (as it would be in natural speech if the speaker isexcited or projecting his voice).Various uses of this tone-sealing domain are illustrated inFigure 3.
For example, eatathesis is realized as a proportionalcompression of the overall pitch range that reduces the value of hat each accent according to the formula:* - r )+r  i t< l \ ]  (I0) hne w = c (hal dNote that in this equation the proportional reduction of h isnormalized to the overall pitch range, so that it can be expressedas a constant value e.The prominences of different accentual phrases relative to thestrongest element in the intermediate phrase are also normalizedto this overall pitch range, so as to be readily interpretable andeasily specified by the user.
A local tone-sealing domain iscalculated for each accentual phrase on the basis of its relativeprominence.
(This can be thought of as setting a local accentual-phrase value for the high-tone line ha, as illustrated in Figure 3.)6.
These three options are available also for other underived variables such as theposition relative to the end of the utterance where final lowering should begin.177The relations among tones described above are then similarlyexpressed as prominence values normalized to this local tone-scaling domain.
In this way the relationships can be expressed asspeaker-specific constants despite changes in overall pitch rangeand local focus, and interactions among them can bemultiplicative within the tone-scaling domain.
Within the localtone-scaling domain, H tones are scaled upward and L tones arescaled downwards.
That is, prominence values for H tonesincrease from 0 to 1 as f0 goes up from r to h, whereas those for Ltones decrease from 1 to 0, as indicated by the differentprominence scales to the right of the transformed hertz domain inFigure 3.Our use of this transformed hertz domain follows broadly theconceptual structure for English tonal scaling developed inLiberman and Pierrehumbert (1984).
Differences between the twomodels appear to reflect differences between Japanese andEnglish.
For example, many English L tones appear below thereference line whereas Japanese L tones are all realized above it, inthe same overall region as H tones.Of the various quantitative values used in tone scaling, thoseof the reference line, of the high-tone line, of the catathesis ratioconstant, and of the other constants for the relations among tonesare all speaker variables like the "standard tone duration" fortiming.
Therefore, they are implemented in the synthesizer asvariables that can be specified in the utterance script or in aseparately provided defaults file, and which revert to the systemdefault value if left unspecified by the user.
The prominenceHI200 il j , ,OiIBO L*/* H1ffil70140120I00?
=9580i2~f02 a3C'~' - -~ ' -~"C' - -~~;C-P(H)  P(L)- I .0  -0 .0h=140- OTf - 02.5-05  -0.5- 02 ,  s - Q750 .0  ' - 1 .0F igure  3.
Tone-scaling domain with f0 values computed for thefirst nine tones in the utterance mayumi-wa ANA'TA-niaima'sita ka?
('Did Mayumi meet YOU?').
Braces at top showthe accentual phrase and intermediate phrase grouping.
Thereference line is 95 Hz and the high-tone line is 170 untilreduced by-the catathesis at the accent in ana'ta.
Values forthe y-axis are hertz on scale to left, and H-tone and L-toneprominences (as scaled in the initial pitch range) on scales toright.
Labeled arrows illustrate the application ofrepresentative tone scaling rules.
(1) Boundary strength atutterance-initial boundary: L~o(u)=0.7.
(2) Boundary strengthat intermediate-phrase boundary: L%(i)=0.6.
(3-4)Relationship between phrasal H and accent H: accent H=I.0,phrasal H=0.8.
(5) Catathesis constant is 0.6 and reduceshigh-tone line to 140 Hz.
(6) Boundary strength at accentual-phrase boundary with weak L% tone because of long initialsyllable in aima'sita: L%(a)=0.5, weak L%=0.85; weakL%(a)=0.5*0.85=0.425.
(7) Accentual phrase aima'Mta issubordinated to the focused accentual phrase ana'ta-ni byP=0.8, which locally compresses the tone-scaling domain bymaking a reduced local high-tone line: h =131 Hz.value of each accentual phrase, on the other hand, is specific to itsparticular degree of subordination to the head of its intermediatephrase, and must be specified in the utterance script.3.2 The Finished f00ontourWhen the tones have been located in time and frequency,several adjustments are made to produce a finished naturalintonation contour from the schematized f0 contour.
First, thetones are connected by linear interpolation, as shown in Figure 4a.Declination now applies, as well as final lowering in declaratives(Figure 4b).
The resulting contour is then smoothed byconvolution with a square window of roughly syllable width.
7 Stepfunctions in f0 now appear more realistically as gradual rises(Figure 4e).
Finally, a small amount of random jitter is added toprevent the occurrence of unnaturally flat sections andunnaturally smooth ramps, and the f0 value is set to zero duringportions corresponding to voiceless egments (Figure 4d).
In orderto listen to the results, the computed f0 contour is thensubstituted for the natural contour in an LPC-coded version ofthe utterance, and the speech is resynthesized.CONOLUSIONThe model of Japanese intonation implemented in thesynthesis program accounts for all of the characteristics ofJapanese intonational structure that we have been able todocument in our experiments.
Some future modifications to themodel will probably be necessary as we learn more about how thehighest level of phrasing behaves in long connected passages.
Forexample, as noted above, we suspect on the basis of recent workon English (Hirschberg and Pierrehumbert, 1986) that some of thecharacteristics that we have identified with the utterance in thepresent model are actually reflections of discourse structure ratherthan features specific to a well-defined type of unit within thehierarchy of prosodic phrases.Constructing the f0 synthesizer has been useful in confirmingour phonological and phonetic model of Japanese intonation.
Webelieve that the synthesizer will also be useful in generatingcontrolled materials for investigating the use of intonationalprominence and the role of phrasing in parsing speech.ACKNOWLEDGEMENTSKen Church, Julia Hirschberg, and Mitch Marcus gave usefulcomments on earlier drafts of this paper.APPENDIX: GLOSSARYeatathesis .
A sudden compression of pitch range that istriggered by a particular tonal configuration, and that lowersall tones following the trigger within some phrasal unit.
InJapanese, catathesis is triggered by every accent, and inEnglish, by every bitonal pitch accent.decl ination.
"A gradual lowering of the pitch range that iseffected as some function of time from the beginning of anutterance without regard to the tonal structure.f inal lowering.
A gradual owering of the pitch range starting atsome distance from the end of the utterance.fundamenta l  f requency.
The reciprocal of the period in aperiodic signal, and the main physical correlate of pitch.Fundamental frequency is abbreviated fO and is measured inperiods per second (unit hertz).
In speech, f0 corresponds tothe frequency of vibration of the vocal cords during voicedsegments.H.
A high tone.The rates of the declination and of the final lowering and the size of thesmoothing window are speaker- and rate-specific variables like the referenceline, and are treated in the same way in the synthesis program.178h lgh- tone  llne.
In Japanese tone-scaling, the upper bound of thepitch range.
Its f0 value corresponds to that of a hypotheticalhighest possible H tone in that range.in tonat iona l  phrase .
A prosodic unit delimited phonologicallyby some sort of intonational feature such as a boundary tone.L.
A low tone.LPC  coding.
A specification of the spectral characteristics of asignal in terms of sets of linear predictor coefficients at fixed150125I00a.
linear interpolationL% H L% H HLL% H HL L% H%1"75150125I00- b. declinationL% H L% H HL L% H HL L% H%C.
smoothing /--.. / \150125I00d.
adjustment for voiceless segments and j i tterL% H L% H HL L% H HL L% H%moyumi wo onotto ni aimo'sifo ko?~z5 t \]IOOl-e. original intonationFigure 4.
Adjustments for making a finished f0 contour fromschematic tone level stretches for utterance shown in Figure 3.
(1) Linear interpolation fills in unspecified values betweentones.
(2) Declination applies, but not final lowering, becausethe utterance is a question ending in a H% boundary tone.
(3)The contour is smoothed by convolution with a syllable-sizedsquare window.
(4) Jitter is added and f0 values excised duringvoiceless egments It\], Ill, and \[k I.
(5) The f0 contour of theoriginal utterance is shown for comparison with (4).intervals.
An nth-order analysis of the signal is obtained by aleast squares estimation of successive samples within ananalysis frame from the linear combination of the last nsamples.
The set of predictor coefficients for each analysisframe can then be used as a filter for an input pulse train tosynthesize a new signal with the same spectral pattern and anarbitrarily different f0 pattern.p i tch  accent .
A tonal configuration that is associated to adesignated syllable in an utterance, and that marks thesyllable (or the word containing the syllable) as accented orintonationally prominent.
In Japanese, accent consists of apitch fall from H tone to L at a lexically designated syllable ina word.
In English, an accent is any one of six tonal patterns(H*, L*, H*+L, L*+H, H+L*, L+H*) that can be associated toa lexically designated syllable.p i tch  range.
The spread of fundamental frequency between the"floor" of a speaker's voice and the highest f0 appropriate tothe occasion.
Linguistic factors such as prominence orintonational focus (see Section 1.2) can locally affect pitchrange, but it is determined overall by paralinguistic factorssuch as degree of animation and projection; the overall pitchrange is raised or expanded when the speaker "speaks up" toproject his voice, or when he is excited.prosody.
The rhythm and melody of speech as specifiedphonologically in the representation of its phrasal organizationand intonational structure, and as realized phonetically induration and loudness and pitch patterns.re ference l ine.
In Japanese tone-scaling, the bottom of the pitchrange, corresponding to the lowest possible f0 value for a tonein a speaker's pitch range.s tandard  Japanese .
The speech of educated Tokyo speakers, asprescribed by the Japanese Broadcasting Corporation.stress.
A local non-tonal prominence on a lexically designatedsyllable in an English word, which is realized phonetically inthe rhythmic pattern of relative lengths and loudnesses, andalso by certain segmental patterns such as vowel andconsonant lenition.tone.
The basic phonological element representing distinctiveevents in the melody - -  i.e., the melodic counterpart of aphonemic segment in the text string.
We believe that thesemelodic segments are target pitch level specifications such as"hiuh" and "low" rather than specifications of pitch changesuch as "rise" and "fall".
(See Pierrehumbert and Beckman(forthcoming) for detailed arguments on this point.)
In bothEnglish and Japanese, there are two tone types - -  H and L - -and the type of each tone in an utterance, and its temporallocation and f0 value reflect the prosodic phrasing andintonational focus structure of the utterance.REFERENCESAnderson, Mark D., Janet B. Pierrehumbert, and Mark Y.Liberman.
1984.
"Synthesis by Rule of English IntonationPatterns."
Proceedings of the IEEE InternationalConference on Acoustics, Speech, and Signal Processing.Beckman, Mary E. 1986.
Towards Phonetic Criteria for aTypology of Lexieal Accent.
Netherlands Phonetic ArchivesNo 7, Foris Publications.Beckman, Mary E., and Janet B. Pierrehumbert.
forthcoming.
"Intonational Structure in Japanese and English.
"Phonology Yearbook, Vol.
3.Chomsky, N. 1971.
"Deep structure, surface structure, andsemantic interpretation."
In D.D.
Steinberg and L.A.Jakohovits, eds., Semantics: An Interdisciplinary Reader inPhilosophy, Linguistics, and Psychology.
Cambridge179University Press, Cambridge, 183-216.Grosz, B. and C. L. Sidner.
1985.
"The Structures of DiscourseStructure."
6097, BBN Laboratories and Technical Note#369 from the AI Center, SRI International.
To appear inComputational Linguistics.Hirschberg, Julia, and Janet Pierrehumbert.
1986.
"TheIntonational Structuring of Discourse."
This volume.Liberman, Mark, and Janet Pierrehumbert.
1984.
"IntonationalInvariance under Changes in Pitch Range and Length."
InM.
Aronoff and R.T. Oehrle, eds., Language SoundStructure.
MIT Press.Marcus, M., D. Hindle, and M. Fleck.
1983.
"D-Theory: Talkingabout Talking about Trees."
Proceedings of the 21st AnnualMeeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics,129-136.Marcus, M., and D. Hindle.
1985.
"A computational ccount ofextra-categorial elements in Japanese."
Paper distributed atthe SDF Japanese Syntax Workshop, UCSD, San Diego,March 1985.Pierrehumbert, Janet B.
1980.
The Phonology and Phonetics ofEnglish Intonation.
MIT dissertation.- - .
1981.
"Synthesizing Intonation," Journal of the AcousticalSociety of America, 70: 985-995.Pierrehumbert, Janet B., and Mary E. Beckman.
forthcoming.
"Japanese Tone Structure."
Paper submitted to LinguisticInquiry.180
