A Terminological Simplification Transformation forNatural Language Question-Answering SystemsDavid G. StallardBBN Laboratories Inc.I0 Moulton St.Cambridge, MA.02238AbstractA new method is p resented  for s impl i fy ing the  log ica lexpress ions  used to represent  u t te rance  meaning in anatura l  l anguage system.
1 This s impl i f i cat ion  methodut i l i zes  the encoded knowledge and the l imitedin fe rence-mak ing  capab i l i ty  of a taxonomic  knowledgerepresentat ion  system to reduce  the const i tuents t ruc ture  of log ica l  express ions .
The speci f icapp l i ca t ion  is to the  problem of mapping express ions  ofthe  meaning representat ion  language to a databaselanguage capab le  of re t r iev ing  ac tua l  responses .Par t i cu la r  account  is taken  of the  mode l - theoret i caspects  of th is  problem.1.
IntroductionA common and usefu l  s t ra tegy  for const ruct ingnatura l  l anguage in ter face  sys tems is to divide theprocess ing  of an u t te rance  into two major s tages :  thef i rs t  mapping the u t te rance  to a log ica l  express ionrepresent ing  i ts  "meaning" and the  second produc ingfrom th is  log ica l  express ion  the  appropr ia te  response .The second s tage  is not  neccesar i l y  t r iv ia l :  thed i f f icu l ty  of i ts  des ign  is s ign i f igant ly  a f fected by thecomplex i ty  and genera lness  of the  log ica l  express ions  ithas  to deal  with.
If th is  i ssue  is not  faced square ly ,  i tmay af fect  cho ices  made e l sewhere  in the  system.Indeed, a need to res t r i c t  the  form of the  meaningrepresentat ion  can be at odds with par t i cu la rapproaches  towards  produc ing  it - as for example the"compos i t iona l "  approach ,  which does not  seek  tocont ro l  express ion  complex i ty  by giving in terpreta t ionsfor whole phrasa l  pat terns ,  but  s imply combinestogether  the meaning of ind iv idual  words in a mannerappropr ia te  to the  syntax  of the  u t te rance .
Such aconf l ic t  is cer ta in ly  not  des i rab le :  we want  to havefreedom of l ingu is t i c  ac t ion  as well as to be able toobta in  cor rec t  responses  to u t te rances .This paper  t reats  in deta i l  the  par t i cu la rman i fes ta t ion  of these  i ssues  for natura l - languagesystems which serve  as in ter faces  to a database :  theprob lems that  a r i se  in a module which maps themeaning representat ion  to a second log ica l  l anguagefor express ing  ac tua l  database  quer ies .
A moduleper forming such a mapping is a component  of suchquest ion -answer ing  systems as TEAM \[4\], PHLIQA1 \[7\]and IRUS \[1\].
As an example of d i f f icu l t ies  which maybe encountered ,  cons ider  the  quest ion  "Was thepat ient ' s  mother  a d iabet ic?"
whose log ica lrepresentat ion  must  be mapped onto a par t i cu la rboo lean f ield which encodes  for each  pat ient  whetheror not  th is  complex proper ty  is t rue .
Any var ia t ion  onth i s  quest ion  which a compos i t iona l  semant ics  mighta lso  handle,  such  as "Was d iabetes  a d i sease  thepat ient ' s  mother  suf fered from?
", would resu l t  in asemant ica l ly  equ iva lent  but  very  d i f fe rent - look inglogica l  express ion ;  th is  d i f ferent  express ion  would alsohave to be mapped to th is  field.
How to deal  withthese  and many o ther  poss ib le  var iants ,  w i thout  makingthe mapping process  excess ive ly  complex, is c lear ly  aproblem.The so lu t ion  which th is  paper  presents  is a new levelof p rocess ing ,  in termed ia te  between the o ther  two: anovel  s impl i f i cat ion t rans format ion  which is per fo rmedon the resu l t  of semant ic  in terpreta t ion  before  thea t tempt  is made to map it to the  database .
Thiss impl i f icat ion method re l ies  on knowledge which iss to red  in a taxonomic  knowledge representat ion  systemsuch  as NIKL \[5\].
The pr inc ip le  beh ind  the method isthat  an express ion  may be simpl i f ied by t rans la t ing  i tssubexpress ions ,  where possible,  into the language ofNIKL, and c lass i fy ing  the  resu l t  into the  taxonomy toobta in  a s impler  equ iva lent  for them.
The resu l t  is top roduce  an equ iva lent  but  syntact i ca l l y  s implerexpress ion  in which fewer, but  more speci f ic ,  p roper t iesand re la t ions  appear .
The benef i t  is that  deduct ionsfrom the express ion  may be more eas i ly  " read  off"; inpar t i cu la r ,  the  mapping becomes eas ie r  because  theproper t ies  and re la t ions  appear ing  are  more l ike ly  tobe e i ther  those  of the  database  or composab le  fromthem.The body of the  paper  is d iv ided into four sect ions .In the  f i rst ,  I will summarize some past  t reatments  ofthe  mapping between the meaning representat ion  andthe query  language,  and show the prob lems they  fail  tosolve.
The second sect ion  prepares  the  way by showinghow to connect  the  taxonomic  knowledge representat ionsystem to a logica l  l anguage used  for meaningrepresentat ion .
The th i rd  sect ion  presents  the" recurs ive  te rmino log ica l  s impl i f icat ion"  a lgor i thm itself .The las t  sec t ion  descr ibes  the imp lementat ion  s ta tusand suggests  d i rec t ions  for in teres t ing  fu ture  work.1The work presented here woe supported under DARPAcontroct  #N00014-85-C-0016.
The views ond conclusionscontoined in th i s  document ore those of the outhor ondshould not be in terpreted  os necessor i ly  represent ing theo f f i c io l  po l i c ies ,  e i ther  expressed or impl ied,  of theDefense Advonced Reseorch Pro jec ts  Agency or of the United$totes  Government.2.
A Formal Treatment of theMapping ProblemThis sect ion  d i scusses  some prev ious  work on theproblem of mapping between the log ica l  l anguage usedfor meaning representat ion  and the log ica l  l anguage inwhich ac tua l  database  quer ies  are expressed .
The241di f f icu l t ies  which remain  for these  approaches  will bepo in ted  out.A common organ izat ion  for a database  is in te rms oftab les  with rows and columns.
The s tandardfo rmulat ion  of these  ideas  is found in the  re la t iona lmodel of Codd \[3\], in which the  tab les  arecharacter i zed  as re la t ions  over se ts  of atomic  datavalues.
The e lements  (rows) of a re la t ion  are  ca l led" tuples" ,  while i ts  ind iv idua l  a rgument  p laces  (co lumns)are  te rmed i ts  "a t t r ibutes" .
Logical l anguages  for theconst ruct ion  of quer ies ,  such  as Codd's re la t iona la lgebra ,  must  make re ference  to the  re la t ions  anda t t r ibutes  of the  database .The f i rs t  i ssue  to be faced in cons iderat ion  of themapping prob lem is what  e lements  of the  database  toident i fy  with the  ob jects  of d i scourse  in the  u t te rance- that  is, with the  non- log ica l  constants  2 in themeaning representat !on .
In p rev ious  work \[9\] I haveargued that  these  shou ld  not  be the  rows of the  tab les ,as one might f i r s t  th ink ,  but  ra ther  cer ta in  se ts  of theatomic a t t r ibute -va lues  themse lves .
I p resented  ana lgor i thm which conver ted  express ions  of a p red icateca lcu lus -based  meaning representat ion  language to thequery  language ERL, a re la t iona l  a lgebra  \[3\] ex tendedwith second-order  operat ions .
The t rans la t ions  ofnon- log ica l  constants  in the  meaning representat ionwere prov ided  by f ixed and loca l  t rans la t ion  ru les  thatwere s imply ERL express ions  for comput ing  the  to ta lex tens ion  of the  constant  in the  database .
Theexpress ions  so der ived  were then  combined together  inan appropr ia te  way to yield an express ion  forcomput ing  the  response  for the  ent i re  meaningrepresentat ion  express ion .
If the  a lgor i thmencountered  a non- log ica l  constant  for which not rans la t ion  ru le  ex is ted ,  the  t rans la t ion  fa i led and theuser  was in formed as to why the system could notanswer  h is  quest ion .By way of i l l us t ra t ion ,  cons ider  the  fol lowingre la t iona l  database ,  cons is t ing  of c l in ica l  h i s to ryin format ion  about  pat ients  at a g iven hosp i ta l  and ofin fo rmat ion  about  doctors  work ing there :PAT I ENTS (PAT I D, SEX.
AGE, D I SF-J~SE, PHYS, D I AMOTHER)DOCTORS(DOCID ,NAME,SEX.SPECIALTY)where "PHYS" is the  ID of the  t reat ing  phys ic ian ,  and"DIAMOTHER" is a boo lean  f ield ind icat ing  whether  ornot  the  pat ient ' s  mother  is d iabet ic .
Here are  theru les  for the  one-p lace  pred icate  PATIENTS, the  one-p lace pred icate  SPECIALTIES, and the  two-p lacepred icate  TREATING-PHYSICIAN:PATIENTS => (PROJECT PATIENTS OVER PATID)SPECIALTIES => (PROJECT DOCTORS OVER SPECIALTY)TREATING-PHYSICIAN => (PROJECT (JOIN PATIENTSTO DOCTORSOVER PHYS DOCID)OVER PATID DOCID)Note that  whi le no tab le  ex is ts  for phys ic ianSPECIALTIES, we can  nonethe less  give a ru le  for th i sp red icate  in way that  is uni form with the  ru le  given forthe  pred icate  PATIENTS.2This term, while a standard one in formal logic,  may beconfused with other uses of the word "constant".
I t  simplyrefers to the funct ion,  predicate and ordinary constantsymbols, such as "MOTHER" or "JOHN".
whose denotationsdepend on the in terpreta t ion  of the language, as opposed tof ixed symbols l ike "FORALL',"AND", "TRUE".One advantage  of such loca l  t rans la t ion  ru les  is the i rs impl ic i ty .
Another  advantage  is that  they  enable  us tot reat  database  quest ion -answer ing  mode l - theoret i ca l l y .The set - theoret i c  s t ruc ture  of the  model is that  whichwould be obta ined  by generat ing  from the  re la t ions  ofthe  database  the much la rger  set  of "v i r tua l "  re la t ionsthat  are  express ib le  as formulas  of ERL.
Thein terpreta t ion  funct ion  of the  model is jus t  thet rans la t ion  funct ion  itself .
Note that  it is a partialfunct ion  because  of the  fact  that  some non- log ica lconstants  may not  have t rans la t ions .
We speakthere fore  of the  database  const i tu t ing  a "par t ia l l yspec i f ied  model" for the  meaning representat ionlanguage.
Computat ion  of a response  to a user ' srequest ,  ins tead  of be ing character i zab le  only as aprocedura l  operat ion ,  becomes in terpreta t ion  in such amodel.A s imi lar  mode l - theoret i c  approach  is advocated  inthe  work  on PHLIQA1 \[8\], in which a number  ofd i f f i cu l t ies  in wr i t ing loca l  ru les  a re  ident i f ied  andovercome.
One c lass  of techn iques  presented  thereal lows for  qu i te  complex and genera l  express ions  toresu l t  from local  ru le  app l i ca t ion ,  to which a post -t rans la t ion  s impl i f i cat ion  process  is appl ied.
Otherspec ia l -purpose  techn iques  are  also presented ,  such asthe  c reat ion  of "prox ies"  to s tand  in for e lements  of ase t  for which  only the  card ina l i ty  is known.A more d i f f icu l t  problem, for which these  techn iquesdo not  prov ide  a genera l  t reatment ,  a r i ses  when wewant  to get  at  in fo rmat ion  cor respond ing  to a complexproper ty  whose component  proper t ies  and re la t ions  a renot  themse lves  tored.
For example,  suppose  the query"List pat ients  whose mother  was a d iabet ic" ,  isrepresented  by the  meaning representat ion :(d isp lay t ( ss to f  X:PAT IENT( fora l  l Y:PERSON (->(MOTHER X Y)(DIABETIC Y)))))The in fo rmat ion  to compute  the  answer  may be found inthe  f ie ld DIAMOTHER above.
It is very  hard  to" see howwe will use  local  ru les  to get  to it, however ,  s incenoth ing  const ructab le  from the database  cor respondsto the  non- log ica l  constants  MOTHER and DIABETIC.The prob lem is that  the  database  chooses  to h igh l ightthe  complex proper ty  DIAMOTHER whi le avo id ing thecos t  of s to r ing  i ts  const i tuent  p red icates  MOTHER andDIABETIC - the  conceptua l  un i t s  cor respond ing  to thewords  of the  u t te rance .One way to get  a round these  d i f f i cu l t ies  is of courseto al low for a more genera l  k ind  of, t rans format ion :  a"g lobal  ru le"  which would match  aga ins t  a wholesyntact i c  pat tern  l ike the  un ivera l ly  quant i f ied  sub-express ion  above.
The d i sadvantage  of this ,  as ispo in ted  out  in \[8\], is that  the  r i chness  of both  natura ll anguage and logic al lows the  same meaning to beexpressed  in many d i f fe rent  ways, which a complete"g loba l  ru le"  would have to match.
S t r i c t ly  syntact i cvar ia t ion  is poss ib le:  p ieces  of the  pat tern  may bespread  out  over the  express ion ,  from which the  pat ternmatch  would have to grab  them.
Equ iva lentfo rmulat ions  of the  query  may also use  complete lyd i f fe rent  terms.
For example,  the  user  might haveemployed the  equ iva lent  phrase  "female parent"  inp lace  of the  word "mother" ,  p resumably  caus ing  thesemant ic  in terpreta t ion  to y ie ld a log ica l  form with thed i f fe rent  p red icates  "PARENT" and "FEMALE".
Thiswould not  match the pat tern .
It becomes c lear  thatthe  "pat tern -match ing"  to be per fo rmed here  is notthe  l i te ra l  kind, and that  it invo lves  unspec i f ied  andarb i t ra ry  amounts  of in ference .The a l te rnat ive  approach  presented  by th i s  paper242takes explicit account of the fact that certainproperties and relations, l ike "DIAMOTHER", can beregarded as built up from others.
In the next sectionwe will show how the properties and relations whoseextensions the database stores can be axiomatized interms of the ones that are more basic in theapplication domain.
This prepares the way  for thesimplification transformation itself, which will rely on alimited and sound form of inference to reverse theaxiomatization and transform the meaningrepresentation, where possible, to an expression thatuses only these database properties and relations.
Inthis way, the local rule paradigm can be substantiallyrestored.3.
Knowledge Representation andQuestion-AnsweringThe purpose  of th is  sec t ion  of the  paper  is to p resenta way of connect ing  the  meaning representat ionlanguage to a taxonomic  knowledge representat ionsystem in such  a way that  the  in fe rence-mak ingcapab i l i ty  of the  la t te r  is ava i lab le  and usefu l  for theprob lems th is  paper  addresses .
Our approach  may beconst ras ted  with that  of o thers ,  e.g.
TEAM in whichsuch  a taxonomy is used  mainly  for s imple inher i tanceand a t tachment  dut ies .The knowledge representation system used in thiswork  is NIKL \[5\].
Since NIKL has been described ratherfully in the references, I will give only a brief summaryhere.NIKL is a taxonomic frame-like system with two basicdata structures: concepts and roles.
Concepts are justclasses of entities, for which roles function somewhatas attributes.
At any given concept we can restrict arole to be filled by some other concept, or place arestriction on the number  of individual "fillers" of therole there.
A role has one concept as its "domain" andanother as its "range": the role is a relation betweenthe sets these two concepts denote.
Concepts arearranged in a hierarchy of sub-concepts  andsuperconcepts; roles are similarly arranged.
Bothconcepts and roles may associated with names.
Inlogical terms, a concept may be identified as the one-place predicate with its name, and a role as the two-place predicates with its name.I will now give the meaning postulates for a term-forming algebra, similar to the one described in \[2\] inwhich one can write down the sort of NIKL expressionsI wi l l  need.
Expressions in this language arecombinable to yield a complex concept or role as theirvalue.
(CONJ CI - -  CN) = (lambda (X) (and (CI X) - -  (Cn X)))(VALUERESTRICT R C) _= (lambdo (X) ( fo ra l l  Y (-> (R X Y)(c Y)))(NUMBERRESTRICT R 1 NIL) =_.
(Iombdo (X) (exists Y (R X Y)))(VRDIFF R C) = (lombdo (X Y) (and (R X Y) (C Y)))(DOMAINDIFF R C) 5 (Iombdo (X Y) (ond (R X Y) (C X)))The key feature of NIKL which we will make  use of is itsclassifier, which computes subsumption and equivalencerelations between concepts, and a limited form of thisamong roles.
Subsumption is sound, and thus indicatesentailment between terms:(SUBSUMES C1 C2) -> ( fo ra l l  X (-> (C2 X) (C1 X)))If the classifier algorithm is complete, the reverse isalso t rue ,  and enta i lment  ind icates  subsumpt ion .In tu i t ive ly ,  th i s  means  " that  c lass i f ied  concepts  a repushed down as far  in the  h ie rarchy  as they  can  go.Also assoc ia ted  with the  NIKL system, though not  apar t  of the  core  language def in i t ion,  is a symbol tab lewhich associates atomic names  with the roles orconcepts they denote, and concepts and roles with thenames  denoting them.
If a concept or role does nothave a name, the symbol table is able to create andinstall one for it when demanded.The domain modelIn order to be able to use NIKL in the analysis ofexpressions in the meaning representation language, wemake the following stipulations for any use of thelanguage in a given domain.
First,  any one-placepredicate must  name a concept, and any two-placepredicate name a role.
Second, any constant, unless anumber  or a string, must name an "individual" concept- a particular kind of NIKL concept that is defined tohave at most one member.
N -ary  functions are treatedas a N+I  - ary predicates.
A predicate of Narguments, where N is greater than 2, is reified as aconcept with N roles.
This set of concepts and roles,together with the logical relationships between them,we call the "domain model".Note that all we  have done is to stipulate an one- to -one correspondence between two sets of things - theconcepts and roles in the domain model and the non-logical constants of the meaning representationlanguage.
If we  wish to include a new non-logicalconstant in the language we must enter thecorresponding concept or role in the domain model.Similarly, the NIKL system's creating a new concept orrole, and creation of a name in the symbol table tostand for it, furnishes us with a new non-logicalconstant.Axiomatization of the database in terms ofthe domain modelThe translation rules presented earlier effectivelyseek to axiomatize the properties and relations of thedomain model in terms of those of the database.
Thisis not the only way  to bridge the gap.
One might alsotry the reverse: to axiomatize the properties andrelations of the database in terms of those of thedomain model.
Consider the D IAMOTHER field of oursample database.
We can write this in NIKL as theconcept PAT IENT-WITH-DIABET IC-MOTHER using termsalready present in the domain model:(CONJ PATIENT(VALUERESTR ICT MOTHERDIABETIC))If we wanted to axiomatize the relation implied by theSEX attribute of the PATIENTS table in our database, wecould readily do so by defining the role PAT IENT-SEX interms of the domain model relation SEX:(DOMAIND IFF SEXPAT I ENT )These two defined terms can actually be entered intothe model, and be treated just like any others there.For example, they can now appear as predicate lettersin meaning representations.
Moreover, to theassociated data structure we can attach a translationrule, just as we have been doing with the originaldomain model elements.
Thus, wil l  attach to theconcept PAT IENT-WITH-DIABET IC-MOTHER the rule:(PROJECT (SELECT FROM PATIENTS WHERE (EQ DIAMOTHER "YES"))OVER PATID)243The next  sect ion  will i l l us t ra te  how we map fromexpress ions  us ing "or ig ina l"  domain model e lements  tothe  ones we c reate  for ax iomat iz ing the  database ,  us ingthe  NIKL system and i ts  c lass i f ier .4.
Recursive TerminologicalSimplificationWe now present  the  ac tua l  s impl i f i cat ion method.
It iscomposed of two separate  t rans format ions  which areapp l ied  one a f ter  the  other .
The f i rst ,  the  "cont rac t ionphase" ,  seeks  to cont rac t  compl icated  subexpress ions(par t i cu la r ly  nested  quant i f i ca t ions )  to s impler  one-p lace  pred icat ions ,  and to fu r ther  res t r i c t  the  "sor ts"of remain ing  bound var iab les  on the  bas is  of the  one-p lace  pred icates  so found.
The second par t  of thet rans format ion ,  the  " ro le - t ighten ing"  phase,  rep lacesgenera l  re la t ions  in the  express ion  with more spec i f icre la t ions  which are  lower in the NIKL h ie rarchy .
Thesemore spec i f ic  re la t ions  are  obta ined  from the  moregenera l  by cons ider ing  the  sor ts  of the  var iab les  uponwhich a g iven re la t iona l  p red icat ion  is made.The contraction phaseThe contraction phase is an algorithm with threesteps, which occur sequentially upon application to anyexpression of the meaning representation.
First, thecontraction phase applies itself recursively to eachnon-constant  subexpression of the expression.Second, depending upon the syntactic category of theexpression, one of the "pre- simplification"transformations is applied to place it in a normalizedform.
Third and finally, one of the actual simplificationtransformations is used to convert the expression toone of a simpler syntactic category.Before working through the example, I will lay out thetransformations in detail.
In what follows, X and X1,X2- -  Xn are variables in the meaning representationlanguage.
The symbol "<rest>" denotes a (possiblyempty) sequence of formulae.
The expression"(FORMULA X)" denotes a formula of the meaningrepresentation language in which the variable X (andperhaps others) appears freely.
The symbol "<quant>"is to be understood as being replaced by either theoperator SETOF or the quantifier EXISTS.First, the normalization transformations, which simplyre-arrange the constituents of the expressions to amore convienent form without changing its syntacticcategory:( I )  (ond (el XI) (P2 Xl) - -  (PN XI)(Q1 X2) (Q2 X2) -- (QN X2)<rest>)~> (and (P' Xl)  (Q' X2) <rest>)where P' := (CONJ P1 P2 - -  PN)and Q' := (CONJ Q1 Q2 - -  QN)(2) (<quant> X:S (and (P X) <rest>) =>(<quant> X:S' (and <rest>))where S' := (CONJ S P)(3) (<quant> X:S (P X)) =>(<quont> X:S')where S' := (CONJ S P)(4) (forol  l X:S (-> (and (P X) <rest>)(FORMULA X)) =>( fo ra l l  X:S' (-> (end <rest>)(FORMULA X)))In (2) and (4) above, the con junct ion  or impl icat ion,respect ive ly ,  are  co l lapsed  out  if the  sequence  <rest>is empty.Now the ac tua l  s impl i f i cat ion  t rans format ions ,  whichseek  to reduce  a complex sub-express ion  to a one-p lace  pred icat ion .
(5) ( foro l l  X2:S ( -> (R XI X2) (P X2)))i>  (P' Xl)where P' := (VALUERESTRICT (VRDIFF R S) P)(S) (exists X2:S (R X1 X2)) => (P' X1)where P' := (VALUERESTRICT R S)and R must be a functional role(7) (exists X2:S (R Xl X2)) => (P' X1)where P' := (NUMBERRESTRICT (VRDIFF R S) 1 NIL)(S) (and (P X)) => (P X)(9) (R X C) => (P X)where P := (VALUERESTRICT R C)and R is funct ional ,  C an individual conceptNow, le t  us suppose  that  the  exerc i se  at  the  end of thelas t  sec t ion  has  been  car r ied  out, and that  the  conceptPATIENT-WITH-DIABETIC-MOTHER has  been  c reated  andg iven the  appropr ia te  t rans la t ion  rule.
To re turn  tothe  query  "List pat ients  whose mother  was a d iabet ic" ,we reca l l  that  it has  the  meaning representat ion :(DISPLAY ~(SETOF X:PATIENTS(FORALL Y : PERSON(-> (MOTHER X Y)(DIABETIC Y)))))Upon app l i ca t ion  to the  SETOF express ion ,  thea lgor i thm f i r s t  app l ies  i tse l f  to the  inner  FORALL.
Thesyntact i c  pat terns  of none of the  pre -s imp l i f i ca t iont rans format ions  (2) - (4) are  sat i s f ied ,  sot rans format ion  (5) is app l ied  r ight  way to produce  theNIKL concept :(VALUERESTRICT (VRDIFF MOTHER PERSON)DIABETIC)This is g iven to the  NIKL c lass i f ie r ,  which compares  itto o ther  concepts  a l ready  i n the  h ie rarchy .
SinceMOTHER has  PERSON as i ts  range  a l ready ,  (VRDIFFMOTHER PERSON) is just  MOTHER again.
The c lass i f ie rthus  computes  that  the  concept  spec i f ied  above is asubconcept  of PERSON - a PERSON such  that  hisMOTHER was a DIABETIC.
If th i s  is not  found to beequ iva lent  to any pre -ex is t ing  concept ,  the  systemass igns  the  concept  a new name which no o therconcept  has,  say PERSON-I.
The outcome of thes impl i f i ca t ion  of the  whole FORALL is then  jus t  themuch s impler  express ion :(PERSON-I X)The recurs ive  s impl i f i cat ion  of the  arguments  to theSETOF is now completed,  and the resu l t ing  express ionis:(DISPLAY 't(SETOF X:PATIENT(PERSON-I X)))Trans format ions  can now be app l ied  to the  SETOFexpress ion  i tsel f .
The pre -s imp l i f i ca t ion  t rans format ion(3) is found to apply, and a concept  expressed  by:(CONJ PATIENT PERSON--I)is g iven to the  c lass i f ier ,  which recogn izes  it asequ iva lent  to the  a l ready  ex is t ing  concept  PATIENT-WITH-DIABETIC-MOTHER.
Since any concept  can serveas a sort ,  the  f inal  s impl i f i cat ion  is:244(DISPLAY t(SETOF X:PATIENT-W\]TH-DIABETIC~THER))This is the  very  concept  for which we have a ru le,  sothe ERL t rans la t ion  is:(PRINT FROM (SELECT FROM PATIENTWHERE (EQ DIAMOTHER "YES"))PATID)Suppose now that the semantic interpretation systemassigned a different logical expression to represent thequery "List patients whose mother was a diabetic", inwhich the embedded quantification is existential insteadof universal.
This might actually be more in line withthe number  of the embedded noun.
The meaningrepresentation would now be:(disploy t ( se to f  X:PATIENT(ex is ts  Y:PERSON (and (MOTHER X Y)(DIABETIC Y)))The recursive application of the algorithm proceeds asbefore.
Now, however, the pre-simplificationtransformation (2) may be applied to yield:(ex is ts  Y:DIABETIC (MOTHER X Y))since a DIABETIC is already a PERSON.
Transformation(6) can be applied if MOTHER is a "functional" role- mapping each  and every  person  to exact ly  onemother.
This can be checked  by ask ing  the NIKLsystem if a number  res t r i c t ion  has  been a t tached atthe domain of the  role, PERSON, spec i fy ing that  it haveboth a minimum and a maximum of one.
If the  authorof the domain model has  prov ided th is  reasonab le  andper fec t ly  t rue  fact  about  motherhood,  (6) can proceedto yield:(PAT I ENT-WI TH-D I ABET IC- MOTHER X)as in the preced ing  example.The ro le  t ighten ing  phaseThis phase  is qu i te  simple.
After the  cont rac t ionphase  has  been  run on the whole express ion ,  a numberof var iab les  have had the i r  sor ts  changed to t ighterones.
This t rans format ion  sweeps through anexpress ion  and changes  the  ro les  in the  express ion  onthat  bas is .
Thus:(IS) (R X Y) => (R' X Y)where $1 is the sort of Xond $2 is the sort of Yond R' := (DOMAINDIFF (VRDIFF R $2)Sl)One can see that  a use of the  re la t ion  SEX, where  thesor t  of the f i rs t  a rgument  is known to be DOCTOR, canread i ly  be conver ted  to a use the  re la t ion  DOCTOR-SEX.Back convers ion :  going in the  reverse  d i rec t ionThere will be t imes when the  s impl i f i cat iont rans format ion  will "overshoot" ,  c reat ing  and us ing newpred icate  le t te rs  which have not been seen  before  byc lass i fy ing new data  s t ruc tures  into the  model tocor respond to them.
The use of such  a new pred icatele t te r  can then  be t reated  exact ly  as would i tsequ iva lent  lambda-def in i t ion ,  which we can read i lyobta in  by consu l t ing  the  NIKL model.
For example,  aquery  about  the sexes  of leukemia v ict ims may a f ters impl i f icat ion resu l t  in a ra ther  s t range  role beingc reated  and entered  into  the  h ie rarchy :PATIENT-SEX-I := (DOMAINDIFF PATIENT-SEX LEUKEMIA-PATIENT)This ro le is a d i rec t  descendant  of PATIENT-SEX; i tsname is system generated .
By the mean ing-postu la teof DOMAINDIFF g iven in sect ion  3 above, it can berewr i t ten  as the fol lowing lambda-abst rac t :(Iombdo (X Y) (and (PATIENT-SEX X Y)( LEUKEM I A-PAT I ENT X) ) )For PATIENT-SEX we of course  have a t rans la t ion  ru leas d i scussed  in sect ion  2.
A ru le  for LEUKEMIA-PATIENT can be imagined as involv ing the  DISEASE f ieldof the  PATIENTS table.
At th i s  po int  we can simply cal lthe  t rans la t ion  a lgor i thm recurs ive ly ,  and it will comeup with a t rans la t ion :(PROJECT (SELECT FROM PATIENTSWHERE (EQ DISEASE "LEUK"))OVER PATID SEX)This supplies us with the needed rule.
As a bonus, wecan avoid having to recompute it later by simplyattaching it to the role in the normal way.
The similarcomputation of rules for complex concepts and roleswhich are already in the domain comes for free.5.
Conclusions, ImplementationStatus and Further  WorkAs of th is  wr i t ing,  we have incorporated  NIKL into theimp lementat ion  of our  natura l  l anguage quest ion -answer ing  system, IRUS.
NIKL is used  to represent  theknowledge in a Navy bat t le -management  domain.
Thes impl i f i cat ion  t rans format ion  descr ibed  in th is  paperhas  been  implemented in th i s  combined system, and theax iomat i za t ion  of the  database  as descr ibed  above isbeing added to the  domain model.
At that  point,  themethodology will be tes ted  as a so lut ion  to thedi f f icu l t ies  now being exper ienced  by those  t ry ing towr i te  the  t rans la t ion  ru les  for the  complex databaseand domain of the  F leet  Command Center  Batt leManagement  Program of DARPA's S t ra teg ic  ComputingProgram.I have presented  a l imited in fe rence  method onpred icate  ca lcu lus  express ions ,  whose in tent  is to p lacethem in a canon ica l  form that  makes  o ther  in fe renceseas ie r  to make.
Metaphor ica l ly ,  it can be regarded  as"s ink ing"  the  express ion  lower in a cer ta in  logicalspace.
The goal is to push  it  down to the "level" ofthe  database  pred icates ,  or below.
We cannotguarantee  that  we will a lways p lace the  express ion  aslow as it could poss ib ly  go - that  problem isundec idab le .
But we can go a good d i s tance ,  and th isby i tse l f  is very  usefu l  for res tor ing  the  t rac tab i l i ty  ofthe  mapping t rans format ion  and o ther  sor ts  ofdeduct ive  operat ions  \[10\].Somewhat s imi lar  s impl i f i cat ions  are  per formed in thework on ARGON \[6\], but  for a d i f fe rent  purpose.
Therethe  database  is assumed to be a full, ra ther  than  apar t ia l l y  speci f ied,  model and s impl i f i cat ions  areper fo rmed only to gain an inc rease  in eff ic iency.
Thed i s t ingu ish ing  feature  of the  present  work is i tsoperat ion  on an express ion  in a log ica l  l anguage forEngl ish meaning representat ion ,  ra ther  than  forres t r i c ted  quer ies .
A database ,  g iven the purposes  forwhich it is des igned,  cannot  const i tu te  a full model forsuch a language.
Thus, the  te rmino log ica l  s impl i f icat ionis needed to reduce  the log ica l  express ion ,  whenposs ib le ,  to an express ion  in a "sub- language"  of thef i rs t  for which the  database  i s  a full  model.An impor tant  outcome of th is  work is the  perspect iveit g ives on knowledge representat ion  systems l ike NIKL.It shows how workers  in o ther  f ields, while mainta in ingo ther  logical  sys tems as the i r  p r imary  mode ofrepresentat ion ,  can use these  sys tems in p ract i ca lways.
Certainly NIKL and NIKL-Iike systems could245never be used as full meaning representat ions  - theydon't  have enough express ive power, and were nevermeant to, This does not  mean we have to d is regardthem, however.
The r ight  perspect ive is to view themas a t tached inference engines to perform limited taskshaving to do with the i r  specialty - the re la t ionsh ipsbetween the var ious proper t ies  and re lat ions  that  makeup a subject  domain in the real world.AcknowledgementsFirst  and foremost,  I must thank Remko Scha, bothfor valuable and st imulat ing technical  d i scuss ions  aswell as for pat ient  editorial  criticism.
This paper  hasalso benef i ted from the comments of Ralph Weischedeland Sos De Bruin.
Beth Groundwater  of SAIC waspat ient  enough to use the software this work produced.I would like to thank  them, and thank  as well the othermembers of the IRUS pro ject  - Damaris Ayuso, LanceRamshaw and Varda Shaked - for the many p leasantand product ive in teract ions  I have had with them.References\[1\] Bates, Madeleine and Bobrow, Robert  J.A Transpor tab le  Natural  Language Inter face forInformation Retrieval.In Proceedings of the 6th Annual Internat ionalACM SIGIR Conference.
~CM Special In teres tGroup on Information Retrieval and AmericanSociety for Informat ion Science, Washington,D.C., June, 1983.\[2\] Brachman, R.J., Fikes, R.E., and Levesque, H.J.Krypton: A Funct ional  Approach to KnowledgeRepresentat ion.IEEE Computer, Special Issue on KnowledgeRepresentat ion ,  October, 1983.\[3\] Codd,E.F.A Relational Model of Data for Large Shared DataBanks.CACM 13(6), June, 1970.\[4\] Barbara  Grosz, Douglas E. Appelt, Paul Martin,and Fernando Pereira.TEAM: An Experiment in the Design ofTransportable Natura l -Language Interfaces.Technical Report  356, SRI Internat iona l ,  MenloPark, CA, August, 1985.\[5\] Moser, Margaret.An Overview of NIKL.Technical Report  Section of BBN Report  No.
5421,Bolt Beranek and Newman Inc., 1983.\[6\] Pate l -Schne ider ,  P.F., H.J.
Levesque, and R.J.Brachman.ARGON: Knowledge Representat ion  meetsInformat ion Retrieveal.In Proceedings of The First Conference onArtif icial Intell igence Applications.
IEEEComputer Society, Denver, Colorado,December, 1984.\[7\] W.J.H.J.
Bronnenberg,  H.C. Bunt, S.P.J.Landsbergen,  RJ.H.
Scha, W.J, Schoenmakers  andE.P.C.
van Utteren.The Question Answering System PHLIQA1.In L. Bolc (editor),  Natural  Language QuestionAnswering Systems.
Macmillan, 1980.\[8\] Scha, Remko J.H.English Words and Data Bases: How to Bridge theGap.In 20th Annual Meeting of the Association forComputational Linguistics, Toronto.Associat ion for Computat ional  Linguistics,June, 1982.\[9\] Stallard, David G.Data Modeling for Natural  Language Access.In Proceedings of the First IEEE Conference onApplied Artif icial Intell igence, Denver,Colorado.
IEEE, December, 1984.\[10\] Stal lard, David G.Taxonomic Inference on Predicate CalculusExpress ions.Submitted to AAAI April 1, 1986.246
