Time and Tense in EnglishMary P. Harper and Eugene CharniakBrown UniversityDepartment ofComputer ScienceBox 1910Providence, RI 02912Abst ractTense, temporal adverbs, and temporal connectivesprovide information about when events described inEnglish sentences occur.
To extract this temporalinformation from a sentence, it must be parsed into asemantic representation which captures the meaning oftense, temporal adverbs, and temporal connectives.Representations were developed for the basic tenses, sometemporal adverbs, as well as some of the temporalconnectives.
Five criteria were suggested for judging theserepresentations, and based on these criteria therepresentations were judged.In t roduct ionEnglish sentences contain many types of temporalinformation.
Tense is used to inform the reader (listener)of when the event associated with the main verb occurswith repect o the time of utterance.
That is, tense informsthe reader that an event occurs before, after, or during thetime of utterance.
Temporal adverbs (such as tomorrow ornow) add additional information about the events in asentence.
Temporal connectives tell the reader about thetemporal relationship between the events in the main clauseand the events in the subordinate clause.
While there isother temporal information that can be found in sentences,the following will concentrate on these three.To extract temporal information from a sentence, it mustbe parsed into a semantic representation which captures themeaning of tense, temporal adverbs, and temporalconnectives.
A temporal representation f tense, adverbs,and temporal connectives must :1. provide a way to reject temporally incorrectsentences, uch as * "I will run yesterday."2.
allow one to reason about the temporal relationshipbetween events.
For instance, the sentence "I hadrun when he arrived" implies that the run eventoccurs before the arrival, whereas in the sentence"I was running when he arrived," the arrival andrun events overlap.3.
allow the exact time of event to be unfixed until it ispinpointed based on contextual information or adverbialmodification.4.
allow reference to points and intervals of time (eg.precisely at 3 PM VS. for 5 hours).This work has been supported in part by the NationalScience Foundation under grants IST 8416034 and IST8515005, and Office of Naval Research under grantN00014-79-C-0529.5.
allow parsing of temporal information in sentencesto be simple and compositional.These criteria were used to judge previous temporalrepresentation research (Bruce (1972), Hornstein (1977,1981), Yip (1985)).
None fulfilled all five criteria.
Thecriteria will also be used to judge the representationsdeveloped here.TenseThe representations for tense, adverbs, and temporalconnectives developed here is based on McDermott's(1982) temporal ogic.
McDermott's "point-based"temporal logic was chosen because it is not unusual to talkabout he beginning and end points of a period of time oran event.
In fact, the semantics of tense developed hererelate the endpoints of events in sentences.
Thisrepresentation f tense provides a flexibility not found inmany other representations of tense (eg.
(Hornstein,1977,1981)).
Flexibility is important since events canextend over tense boundaries (for instance, "In 3 minutes,the boy will have run for 24 hours.").
Any representationof events in time must capture the fact that some events donot always wholly occur in the past, present, or future withrespect to the time of utterance.The tense rules are compositional nd require thefollowing relations : < (before), > (after), =(cotemporaneous), < (before or cotemporaneous), and ->(after or cotemporaneous).
It is assumed that events are"unit" events and have a beginning and an end point,where the beginning of an event is before or simultaneousto its end point.
The endpoint of an event need not implythe achievement of the purpose with which the event wasinitiated (eg.
the existence of the end point of a winningevent need not imply that the state of having won isachieved).
To capture the meaning of simple as well asmore complex tenses, we introduce the following events :1.
~ - This is simply the speaking eventassociated with a sentence.2.
~ - This is the event indicated by the mainverb of the sentence.
For instance, the run event in thefollowing sentence is the main event : "I have beenrunning to the store."3.
~ - This is the time interval referred to"Bill in sentences like : had eaten at 3 PM," whichdescribes an eat event in the "distant past."
Thissentence implies the existence of an event or timeinterval which occurs after the main event (eat) butbefore the utterance event.4.
Proeressive Event - This is the time interval fromwhich the main event extends into the past and into thefuture.
The progressive event may have no correlationwith a "real world" event, but its existence predictscertain phenomena in our model of temporal adverbsand connectives.
It can be thought of as a place holder,or the minimal possible duration of a main event withprogressive aspect.The following five rules describe the semantics of tenseboth in English and in our representation.
The verbs in asentence are parsed left to right (assuming an ATN, whichis the parser in which these tense rules were implemented).One of the following three rules is triggered by the tense ofthe first verb in the sentence.
"Event" (in the fast threerules) can be a main event, a perfect event, or aprogressive event depending on the sentence.1.
Past rule : This rule implies that there exists someevent that must end before the beginning of theutterance event.
(< (end even0 (begin utterance-even0)2.
~ : This rule implies that there exists someevent hat is either cotemporaneous with the utteranceevent or can begin at or after the beginning of theutterance event.
Which is asserted seems to depend onthe aspect of the verb associated with event.If the current verb is stative then(and (= (begin event) (begin uterance-event))(= (end event) (end uterance-event)))If the current verb is not a stative then('d (begin event) (begin uterance-event))3.
~ : This rule implies that there exists someevent that must begin after the end of the utteranceevent.
(> (begin event) (end utterance-event))The following rules are required to interpret he morecomplicated perfect and progressive t nses.4.
~ : This rule is triggered by the word havefollowed by a past participle.
The event in the rule canbe a progressive or a main event.
(< (end event) (begin perfect-event))5.
~ : This rule is triggered by the wordbe followed by a progressive verb form.
The event inthe rule can only be a main event.
(and (< (begin main-event) (begin progressive-event))(end main-event) (end progressive-event)))These rules combine in a compositional way to definethe more complicated tenses.
For instance the past perfectprogressive t nse combines the past rule with the perfectand progressive rules.
Thus the sentence "Jack had beenrunning" is represented asfollows :(and (hast utterance6 utterance-event)(< (end have2) (begin utterance6)) ; past rule(inst have2 perfect-event)(<= (end be3) (begin have2)) ; perfect rule(inst be3 progressive-event)(inst run64 run)(<= (begin run64) (begin be3)) ; progressive rule(>= (end run64) (end be3))(hast run64 main-event)(name Jack 16 Jack)C = '(agent run64) Jackl6))A "temporal" picture can be drawn for this sentence (seeFigure 1).
Note that the picture is only one possibledepiction of the actual meaning of this representation.utterea'~e6I Ih~ve2I II be3 Ilam64I I( I I )l~t ~w futt~F igure  1.
"Jack had been running.
"A parser uses the semantic rules of tense as follows.After checking the tense of the first verb, the parser checksto see if the verb is the word will.
If it is, then move to thenext verb and mark the event associated with this verb as afuture event.
Assert either the past, present or future ruledepending on the tense associated with the "event" of thecurrent verb.
Now check to see ff the current verb is havefollowed by a past participle.
If so, then assert he perfectrule relating the perfect event (the event associated withhave) and the event associated with the verb to the right ofhave, and move to that verb.
After checking for perfecttense, the parser looks for a form of the word be followedby the progressive form of a verb.
This signals theprogressive rule, which relates the progressive event withthe main event.The representation adopted has some support inlinguistic literature, and there are some similarities to therepresentations developed by Bruce (1972), Hornstein(1977, 1981), Reichenbach (1947), and Yip (1985),although there are many differences.
One differencebetween this representation a d previous representations oftense is how present ense is defined, All past theoristshave considered present tense as indicating that the mainevent is cotemporaneous with the time of utterance.However, aspect of verb seems to affect the meaning ofpresent ense.
In present ense sentences, there exists acurious phenomenon which can best be understood byexamining the following two sentences :1.
I leave at eight o'clock tomorrow.2.
*I have a dog tomorrow.Aspect interacts with present ense requiring a morecomplicated present rule in a theory of tense.Adverb ia l sThe representation f several types of temporal adverbswill be considered, as well as how the meaning of theseadverbs combines with the meaning of the tense.
As in therepresentation f tense, we require the following relations :<, >, ~, >, and =.
We will consider how to predictincorrect combinations of tense and adverbs based on therepresentations of tense and adverbs developed here.As suggested by Homstein (1977), we adopt he ideathat which event is modified by an adverbial is animportant issue (since we introduce multiple vents in ourdefinition of some of the basic tenses).
The ambiguityconcerning which event is modified can best be seen in thefollowing example: "I had eaten at 3."
This sentence has autterance event, which can not be directly modified by anadverb.
It can be modified by context, and it can bemodified when some event which is cotemporaneous to theutterance vent is modified.
The past perfect sentenceintroduces a perfect event and a main event (eat) in additionto the utterance event.
If we assume that the main event ismodified, then the time of"eating" must overlap 3 o'clock.If it modfies the perfect event, then by the time 3 o'clockcame around the "eating" was complete.
In general, weadopt he idea that which event is modified is ambiguous,and thus a disjunction of possibilities i asserted.Since Hornstein (1977) and Yip (1985) examined thethree adverbials tomorrow, yesterday, and now, we willconcentrate on these three.
Each of these adverbs haresthe fact that they are defined with respect to the time of theutterance event (today is also included in this category ofadverbs though not discussed here).
The representationsof now, tomorrow, and yesterday follow :Now : Now is defined to be a time interval which iscotemporaneous with the utterance vent.
Thus, therepresentation f some specific now is :(and (inst nowl6 time-interval)(= (begin howl6) (begin utterance2))(= (end now 16) (end utterance2)))Tomorrow : Tomorrow is also defined with respect othe time of utterance.
Notice that the duration of tomorrowis precisely 24 hours (as indicated in the fourth conjunct).
(and (inst tomorrow3 day)(> (begin tomorow3) (end utterance2))(< (begin tomorrow3)(+ (end utterance2)(* 24 hour)))(= (- (end tomorrow3) (begin tomorrow3))(* 24 hour)))Yesterday : Yesterday is defined with respect to the timeof utterance, and has a 24 hour duration.
(and (inst yesterday3 day)(< (end yesterday3) (begin utterance2))(> (End yesterday3)(- (begin utterance2) (* 24 hour)))(= (- (end yesterday3) (begin yesterday3))(* 24 hour)))To satisfy criterion 1, this model should be able topredict emporal inconsistencies between temporal adverbsand tense.
Any event in a sentence can be modified by anadverb if the event can potentially overlap the period oftime associated with the adverb.
Thus we introduce theoverlap rule of adverb-tense agreement :Overlap Rule : An event can be modified by a temporaladverb iff the time period associated with an adverb canoverlap the time period associated with the event withoutsome temporal contradiction.
That is, if the followingassertion does not contradict other temporal assertionsassociated with the sentence, then the events can overlap :(and (< (begin event) (end adverb))('d (end event) (begin adverb)))Because events are defined flexibly in this tenserepresentation, some events can cross tense boundaries.For correct adverb-tense agreement, he events in thesentence must be "anchored" to the event associated withthe first verb in the sentence, that is the event thatdetermines the tense of the sentence (note that will has noevent associated with it).
The need for this anchoring canbest be shown with following examples :*Now, he will have eaten.
(excluding modal reading)*Yesterday, he will have eaten.
(excluding modal reading)Tomorrow, he will have eaten.The tense stucture of each of these sentences (as given byour tense rules) introduces three events, an utterance event,a perfect event, and a main event.
Notice that the onlyevent hat is necessarily in the future is the perfect event.The main event could overlap yesterday or now, as wellas tomorrow.
Thus it would seem that given that the mainevent can be modified by yesterday or now, the first twosentences hould be correct, However, except forpossible modal readings, these sentences are notacceptable.
We account for this with the following rule :Anchor ing rule : If the time period of the eventassociated with the first verb of a sentence can overlap thetime period associated with an adverb, then the adverb canmodify that event and can potentially modify the otherevents in the sentence (based on the overlap rule).
Theutterance vent can not be modified using the anchoringrule.To show how these two rules (anchoring and overlap)are used, examine the sentence: "He is running now.
"Step I : Get the basic representations of the adverbial andthe tense.
(and (inst utterance6 utterance-event); adverb representation(inst now5 time-interval)(= (begin now5) (begin utterance6))(= (end now5) (end utterance6)); tense representation(inst bel progressive-event)(= (begin bel) (begin utterance6))(= (end bel) (end utterance6))(inst run4 run)(inst run4 main-event)(< (begin run4) (begin bel))Cd- (end run4) (end bel)))Step 2 : Check to see ff the anchor event can overlap theadverb.
Assume that CHECK is a function that returnstrue if the overlap is possible.
Since Bel and Now5 occurat the same time, the result of the test is true.
(CHECK (and (< (begin bel) (end now5))(> (end bel) (begin now5))))Step 3 : If the overlap check of the anchor eturns true,then do overlap checks on the remaining events.
For thosethat return true, assert adisjunction of ways that the adverbcan modify the events.
In this case assert :(or (and (< (begin bel) (end nowS))(end bel) (begin nowS)))(and (< (begin run4) (end now5))(> (end run4) (begin now5))))An example of a sentence in which the anchor event andthe adverb can not overlap is *"He ran tomorrow."
TheTense-Adverb Compatibi l ityNowTab le  I.Yes~rdayokok or Ping.
Rule*okerrorerroren'Drerroren'DrerrDrP~tPast ProgressivePast PerfectPresentPresent ProgressivePresent PerfectFutureFutu~ ProgressiveFuture PerfectTomorrowerror errorPing.
Rule only Prvg.
Rule onlyerror errorok ok or errorok Ping.
Rule onlyok errorerror okerror ok or Prvg.
Ruleerror ok* Reference ~o "Ping.
Rule" refers ~ a modification of the Pest ProgressiveRule sugges~d by Hon~in  (1977), wkich is ~nored in this paper.run event can not overlap tomorrow (because the run eventends in the past and tomorrow begins in the future), andthe sentence is therefore reported as erroneous.
See Table1 for the adverb-tense predictions of our model.
Modalreadings are ignored in this paper.There are other adverbials which are interpreted relativeto the time of utterance (for instance, this week, nextweek, and last year).
It is not difficult o imagine how torepresent these adverbials.
There are also some adverbialswhich need not be defined relative to the time of utterance.These include all of the clock calendar adverbials, uch asSunday and midnight.
For example the representation of aspecific Sunday is :(and (hast sunday3 day)(= (- (end sunday3) (begin sunday3))(* 24 hour)))Sunday3 can not be placed in the past, present, or future.However, when Sunday is used in a sentence, we candetermine whether we mean a past, present, or futureSunday.
Durational adverbials can also be easilyrepresented (somewhat like the definition of Sunday).There are other adverbials which like clock calendaradverbials are not interpretted with respect to the time ofspeech.
One such temporal adverb is just.
This adverb isdistinguished from the word just, meaning only.
To seehow it is used, examine the following sentences :1.
I just ate lunch.2.
I was just eating lunch.3.
I had just eaten lunch.4.
* I just eat.5.
I am just eating lunch.6.
I have just eaten lunch.7.
* I will just eat lunch.8.
I will be just eating lunch.9.
I will have just eaten lunch.Notice that just can not be used in simple present or simplefuture tense.
This adverb requires the existence of someevent in the sentence that begins immediately after the startof the event modified by just.
Sentences 5 and 8 requireprogressive events to represent their tense structure.
Thistense representation allows our model to predict thecorrectness of these two sentences.
The definition of justfollows :Just : Just relates two events, where Evl can be the mainevent, the progressive-event, or he perfect-event, and Ev2can be the utterance-event, the perfect-event, or theprogressive-event.
Evl and Ev2 must not be separated byanother event introduced by the sentence.
0 is some smallvalue which is determined by context.
(< (begin Evl) (begin Ev2))if (< fEnd Evl) (begin Ev2)) thenassert (< (- (begin Ev2) (End Evl)) 0)elseassert (< (- (begin Ev2) (begin Evl)) ~)There are many other temporal adverbials that need tobe represented, among them recently, afterwards, earlier,lately, already, and soon.
Most of these relate two events,in much the same way as temporal connectives which willbe our next topic.Tempora l  Connect ivesA few issues must be examined before we present ourrepresentation f temporal connectives.
First it should bepointed out that temporal connectives are subordinators.Most subordinators do not restrict the tense of thesubordinate clause given the tense of the main clause.
Thetense of the main clause does restrict he tense of thesubordinate clause when the subordinator is a temporalconnective.
The following results are predicted byHornstein (1977) :John left when Harry1.
*arrives.
4. arrived.
7.
*will come.2.
*is arriving.
5. was arriving.
8.
*will be coming.3.
*has arrived.
6. had come.
9.
*will have arived.By studying the above xample, one might suggest that hetense of the main clause and the tense of the subordinateclause must have the same tense (disregarding progressiveand perfect aspects).
This seems to be true for all past andpresent enses.
There are some restrictions of thisstatement, however, since the will/shall construction offuture tense is not allowed in temporal subordinate clauses.As pointed out by l.~ech (1971) :"In dependent clauses inlxoduced by conditional nd temporalconjunctions if, unless, when, as soon as, as, etc., the future isdenoted by the ordinary Present Tense instead of the constructionwith will~shall :I'll tell you if it hurts.When the spring comes, the swallows will return.Jeeves will announce \[he guests as they arrive."
(p.59)If the will~shall construction is used in a subordinateclause introduced by a temporal connective, then thereading of the sentence isnot a future but a modal reading.This fact was not noticed by Hornstein (1977, 1981) orYip (1985).
Hornstein allows both present ense andwill~shall future tense to occur in temporal subordinateclauses.
Yip only allows the will~shall future tense tooccur in the subordinate clause 1.Rather than include the syntactic needs of temporalconnectives in our semantic representation, it seems wiserto include the requirement a a syntactic level.
That is thetense of the f'trst verb of the main clause restricts the tenseof the first verb in the temporal subordinate clause.
If thetense of the first verb in the main clause of the sentence ispast or present, then the tense of the first verb in thesubordinate clause must have like tense.
If the tense of thefirst verb in the main clause is future tense, then the tenseof the fhst verb in the subordinate clause must be presenttense (though it will be semantically interpretted asfuturetense).Now, we must consider how to extract he temporalmeaning of sentences of the form sentence-temporalconnective-sentence.
Each clause will be given a temporalrepresentation as indicated in the tense representation,section of this paper.
Both clauses will have the same timeof utterance, since an utterance event is created only for asentence.
The only subtlety is the requirement that presenttense in a subordinate clause be interpretted using futuresemantics when the main clause has future tense.
Aftereach clause is represented, the semantics for the temporalconnective must be invoked.
Each temporal connectiverequires its own definition, as pointed out byHornstein(1977).
These definitions will determine thetemporal relationship between the events in the main clauseand the events in the subordinate clause.
We will presentthe definitions for five temporal connectives : when, while,until, before, and after.
Because these definitions can usethe representation f tense associated with each clause in asentence to interrelate the events between clauses, thestrength of the tense representation is increased.When : align the anchor events to determine therelationship between events of the clauses.
If the mainevents of both clauses are the anchor events, then theevents may occur at exactly the same time, though notnecessarily.
(and (= (begin anchor-event(main-clause))(begin anchor-event(subordinate-clause)))(= (end anchor-event(main-clause))(end anchor-event(subordinate-clause))))While : align the anchor and main events of the clauses.Check to see if the alignment of both is possible.
If check.-etums false then reject he sentence.1.
Yip(1985) and Hornstein(1977) try to deal with thistemporal connective phenomenon and adverb-tenseagreement with a unified theory.
Hornstein's theoryaccepts entences of the form *"I have eaten tomorrow" sothat the sentence "I will leave when he has eaten" isacceptable.
Yip modifies Hornstein's theory to get rid ofthe yesterday-present perfect error, but the modificationdoes not allow a future tense main clause to have a presenttense subordinate clause.
(and (= (begin anchor-event(main-clause))(begin anchor-event(subordinate-clause)))(= (end anchor-event(main-clause))(end anchor-event(subordinate-clause)))(= (begin main-event(main-clause))(begin main-event(subordinate-clause)))(= (end main-event(main-clause))(end main-event(subordinate-clause))))Until : requires in most cases that the main event of themain clause nd when the the main event of the subordinateclause begins.
If the tense representation f the subordinateclause has a perfect event and no progressive event, thenthe main event of the main clause must end when the mainevent of the subordinate clause nds.If subordinate clause has a perfect but no progressive event(= (end main-event(main-clause))(end main-event(subordinate-clause)))Else(= (end main-event(main-clause))(begin main-event(subordinate-clause)))Before : requires that the anchor event of the main clauseend before the beginning of the main event of thesubordinate clause.
(< (end anchor-event(main-clause))(begin main-event(subordinate-clause)))After : requires in most cases that the main event of themain clause begin after the end of the anchor event of thesubordinate clause.
If the main clause has a progressiveevent, then the anchor event of the main clause begins afterthe end of the anchor event of the subordinate clause andthe main event of the subordinate clause ends before theend of the main event of the main clause.If main clause has a progressive event hen(and (< (end anchor-event(subordinate-clause))(begin anchor-event(main-clause)))(< (end main-event (subordinate-clause))(end main-event (main-clause))))Else(< (end anchor-event(subordinate-clause))(begin main-event(main-clause)))Notice that before and after are not always inverses of oneanother.
Consider the following two sentences :1.
I ate before he was running2.
He was running after I ate.If before and after were inverses, then sentence 1and 2would have equivalent meanings which they do not.
Thedefinitions of before and after capture this assymetry.Two Examples are presented to acquaint the readerwith the representation f sentences joined by temporalconnectives.
The fLrst is : "Mary ate when Joe was eating."I.
Represent the clauses.
(and (inst utterance3 utterance-even0; "Mary ate"(inst eat22 ca0(inst eat22 main-event)(< (end eat22) (begin utterance3))(name Mary22 Mary)(:= '(agent eat22) Mary22);"Joe was eating"(< (end beA) (begin utterance3))(inst be4 progressive-event)Onst eat23 eat)(hast cat23 main-event)(< (begin eat23) (begin be.A))(end cat23) (end beA))(name Joel2 Joe)C = '(agent eat23) Joel2))IL Do semantics for when.Note that the anchor event for the main clause iseat22, and the anchor event for the subordinateclause is beA.
(and (= (begin cat22) (begin be4))(= (end eat22) (end be4)))This sentence can depicted as follows (see Figure 2) :ea122 Ibe4I 4ea123I Iutenmce3 ?
!past nov  futureF igure  2.
"Mary  ate vhen  Joe vas eating.
"This implies that eat23 can begin before and end aftereat22, though they could be exactly coincident.
Thisseems to be the desired interpretation of this sentence.This is not the meaning that Hornstein's model would givethis sentence.
Yip(1985) introduces progressive aspectrules to Hornstein's tense rules to get exactly this result.The second example consists of an analysis of thesentence : "Mary ate when he had eaten."I.
Represent the clauses.
(and (hast utterance3 utterance-event); '~Mary ate" representation(inst cat22 cat)(inst cat22 main-event)(< (end cat22) (begin utterance3))(name Mary22 Mary)C = '(agent cat22) Mary22); "He had eaten" representation(< (end have3) (begin utterance3))(inst have3 perfect-event)(hast cat23 eat)(hast eat23 main-event)(~ (end cat23) (begin have3))(inst Jackl 2 Jack)C = '(agent cat23) Jackl2))II.
Do semantics for when.Note that the anchor event for the main clause iscat22, and the anchor event for the subordinateclause is have3.
(and (= (begin cat22) (begin have3))(= (end eat22) (end have3)))This sentence can be depicted as shown in Figure 3.Thus, it can be seen that eat23 must end by the beginningof eat22, This seems to be the correct interpretation of thissentence, and was exactly the interpretation thatHornstein's when rule makes.
These two examples showthat the when rule predicts very different relationshipsbetween events depending on the tenses in the clauses.u~emnee3, ea'~2I ea~3 Ipast now futureF igure  3.
"Mary ate vhen Jack had eaten "ConclusionThis paper describes a preliminary study of the temporalphenomena found in English sentences.
Many issues havebeen ignored for simplicity.
For instance, the issue ofhabitual readings of verbs was not examined.
Themeanings of verbs with temporal aspects (such as plan )were also not considered.
In addition, we did not considerhow to relate (in time) events from different sentences.The only events from different sentences that can be relatedare the utterance vents.
If two sentences occur insequence, one can conclude only that he utterance vent ofthe In'st ends before the utterance vent of the second.The model developed here can, however, temporallyorder events within a sentence.
Five criteria weresuggested at the beginning of the paper for therepresentation f temporal information found in an Englishsentence.
These criteria guided the development of ourmodel.
All criteria were met, except he compositionalparse criterion in a few cases.
There seem to beunavoidable special cases which can not be captured incompositional tense, adverb, and temporal connectiverules.
For instance, the meanings of some adverbs requiretense information to determine their correct representations(e.g.
just).ReferencesAllen, James.
Maintaining Knowledge About TemporalIntervals.
CACM, 1983, 26, 832-843.Bruce, Bertram C. A Model for Temporal References andIts Application in a Question Answering Program.Artificial Intelligence, 1972, 3, 1-25.Charuiak, E., Gavin, M., and Hendler, J.
The Frail/NaslReference Manual.
Brown University Technical ReportCS-83-06, 1983.Charniak, E. and McDermott, D. Introduction toArtificial Intelligence.
Reading, MA : Addison-WesleyPublishing Company, 1985.Hornstein, Norbert.
Towards a Theory of Tense.Linguistic Inquiry, 1977, 8, 521-557.Hornstein, Norbert.
The Study of Meaning in NaturalLanguage, In N. Hornstein & D. Lightfoot (Eds.
),Explanation in Linguistics.
New York : Longman,1981.Leech, Geoffrey N. Meaning and the English Verb.London :Longman, 1971.McDermott, Drew.
A Temporal Logic For ReasoningAbout Processes And Plans.
Cognitive Science, 1982,6, 101-155.Reichenbach, Hans.
Elements of Symbolic Logic.New York : MacMillan, 1947.Yip, Kenneth M. Tense, Aspect and the CognitiveRepresentation f Time.
IJCAI Proceedings, 1985,806-814.
