SEMANTICALLY S IGNIF ICANT PATTERNS IN D ICT IONARY DEF IN IT IONS *Jud i th  MarkowitzComputer  Science DepartmentDe Paul University,  Chicago, IL 60604Thomas AhlswedeMar th~ EvensComputer  Science DepartmentI l l inois  Inst i tute of Technology,  Chicago, Ii 60616ABSTRACTNatural  language process ing systemsneed large lexicons conta in ing expl ic i tin format ion about lex ica l -semant lcre lat ionships,  se lect ion  restr ict ions,and verb categories.
Because the laborinvolved in const ruct ing  such lexicons byhand is overwhelming,  we have been try ingto construct  lexical  entr iesautomat ica l ly  from informat ion ava i lab lein the mach ine- readab le  vers ion ofWebst@r 's  ~@ve~h Co l !eg late  Dict ionary.This work  is r ich in impl ic i tinformation; the prob lem is to make itexpl icit .
This paper descr ibes  methodsfor f inding taxonomy and set -membersh ipre lat ionships,  recogniz ing nouns thatord inar i ly  represent  human beings, andident i fy ing act ive and stat ive verbs andadject ives.INTRODUCTIONLarge natural  language process ingsystems need lexicons much larger thanthose avai lab le  today with expl ic i tin format ion about lex lca l -semant icre%ationships,  about usage, about forms,about morphology,  about case frames andse lect ion  rest r ic t ions  and other kinds ofco l locat ional  information.
Apresyan,Mel 'cuk, and Zho lkovsky studied the kindof expl ic i t  lexical  in format ion needed bynon-nat ive  speakers of a language.
TheirExp lanatory -Combinatory  D ic t ionary  (1970)expla ins  how each word is used and how itcombines wi th  others in phrases andsentences.
Their  dream has now beenrea l ized in a fu l l -sca le  d ic t ionary  ofRuss ian (Mel 'cuk and Zholkovsky,  1985)and in example entr ies for French(Mel 'cuk et al, 1984).
Computerprograms need sti l l  more expl ic i t  anddeta i led information.
We have d iscussede lsewhere the kind of lexical in format ionneeded in a quest ion  answer ing  system(Evens and Smith, 1978) and by a systemto generate medical  case reports (Li etal., 1985).This research was supported by theNat ional  Sc ience Foundat ion  under IST-85-10069.A number of exper iments  have shownthat re lat ional  thesauri  cans ign i f i cant ly  improve the e f fect ivenessof an in format ion retr ieval  system (Fox,1980; Evens et al, 1985; Wang et al,1985).
A re lat ional  thesaurus is used toadd further terms to the lquery, termsthat are re lated to the ~r ig lnal  bylexlcal  re lat ions l ike synonymy,taxonomy, set -membership,  or the part-whole relat ion, among others.
Theadd i t ion  of these re lated terms enablesthe system to ident i fy  more re levantdocuments.
The deve lopment  of suchre lat ional  thesauri  would becomparat ive ly  s imple  if we had a largelex icon conta in ing relationalinformation.
(A comparat ive  study oflexical  re lat ions can be found in Evenset al, 1980).The work involved in deve lop ing  alexicon for a large subset  of Engl ish  isso overwhelming,  that it seemsappropr ia te  to try to bui ld  a lex iconautomat ica l ly  by ana lyz ing  in format ion  ina mach ine- readab le  dict ionary.
Aco l leg iate  level d ic t ionary  contains anenormous amount of in format ion aboutthousands of words in the natura llanguage it descr ibes.
This in format ionis presented in a form intended to beeas i ly  understood and used by a humanbeing wi th  at least some command of thelanguage.
Unfortunate ly ,  even when thed ic t ionary  has been t ranscr ibed intomach ine- readab le  form, the knowledgewhich a human user can acqui re  from thed ic t ionary  is not readi ly  ava i lab le  tothe computer.There have been a number of ef forts  toextract  in format ion from machine-readable dict ionar ies.
Amsler  (1980,1981, 1982) and Amsler  and John White(1979) mapped out the taxonomich ierarch ies  of nouns and verbs in theMerr iam-Webster  Pocket Dict ionary.Mich ie ls  (1981, 1983) ana lyzed theLongman Dic t ionary  of C0ntemporaryEngl is  h (LDOCE), taking advantage of thefact that that d ic t ionary  was des igned tosome extent to fac i l i tate computermanipulat ion.
Smith (1981) studied the112"def in ing formulae" - s ign i f i cantrecurr ing  phrases - in a se lect ion  ofad ject ive  def in i t ions  from We bster \ [sCaro lyn White (1983) has deve loped aprogram to create entr ies for Sager 'sL inguist ic  Str ing Parser  (1981) from WY.Chodorow and Byrd (1985) have ext ractedtaxonomic hierarchies, assoc iated wl thfeature information,  from LDOCE and W7.We have parsed W7 ad ject ivedef in i t ions  (Ahlswede, 1985b) us ingSager 's  L inguist ic  Str ing Parser  (Sager,1981) in order to automat ica l ly  ident i fylex ica l -semant ic  re lat ions assoc ia tedwi th  def in ing  formulae.
We have also(Ahlswede and Evens, 1983) ident i f ieddef in ing  formulae in noun, verb andadverb def in i t ions  from W7.
At presentwe are work ing  on three inter re latedprojects:  ident i f i ca t ion  and analys is  oflex ica l -semant ic  -elations in or out ofWY; generat ion  of computed def in i t ionsfor words which are used or re ferred tobut not def ined in WY; and pars ing of theent i re d ic t ionary  (or as much of it aspossible) to generate  from it a largegeneral  lexical  knowledge base.This paper represents  a cont inuat ionof our work on def in ing formulae ind ic t ionary  def in i t ions,  in par t icu lardef in i t ions  from W7.
The patterns  wedeal wi th  are l imited to recurr ingphrases, such as '"any of a" or "a qua l i tyor state of" (common in noun def in i t ions)and "of or re lat ing to" (common inad ject ive  def in i t ions) .
From suchphrases, we gain in format ion  not onlyabout the words being def ined but alsoabout the words used in the def in i t ionsand other words in the lexicon.Speci f ica l ly ,  we can extract  se lect iona linformation,  co -occur rence  relat ions,  andlex ica l - semant ic  relat ions.
Thesemethods of ext ract ing  in format ion from W7were des igned for use in the lex iconbui lder  descr ibed ear l ier  by Ah lswede(1985a).The computat iona l  steps involved inthis study were re la t ive ly  simple.
FirstW7 def in i t ions  were d iv ided by part ofspeech into separate f i les for nouns,verbs, adject ives,  and others.
Then aseparate  Keyword In Context  (KWIC) Indexwas made for each part of speech.Hypotheses were tr ied out in i t ia l ly  on asubset of the d ic t ionary  conta in ing  onlythose words which appeared  eight or moret imes in the Kucera and Franc is  corpus(1968) of a mi l l ion  words of runningEngl i sh  text.
Those that proved val idfor this subset were then tested on thefull d ict ionary.
This work would havebeen imposs ib le  wi thout  the kindpermiss ion  of the G. & C. Merr iamCompany to use the mach ine- readab levers ion of W7 (Olney et al 1967).NOUN TAXONOMYNoun def in i t ions  wh ich  begin wi th"Any" s ignal  a taxonomic re la t ionsh ipbetween the noun being def ined and ataxonomic superord inate  which fol lows theword "Any."
One subset of the formulaebeg inn ing wi th  "Any" has the form: "Any"-NP, where the NP can be a noun, nounphrase, or a co -ord inated  noun orad ject ive  structure.la.
a lkyl  any un iva lent  a l iphat ic ,aromat ic -a l iphat ic ,  ora l i cyc l i c  hydrocarbon radical.b.
ammuni t ion  any mater ia l  used inat tack  or defense.c.
s t reptococcus  any coccus in chainsd.
nectar  any de l ic ious  dr inke.
d iscord  any harsh or unp leasantsoundf.
mi lkwort  any herb of a genus(Pol_ygala) of the fami lyPolygalaceae,  the mi lkwortfami lyIn these def in i t ions  the taxonomicsuperord inate  of the noun being def inedis the head noun of the NP immediate lyfo l lowing "Any".
The superord inate  of"alkyl" is "radical ,"  wh ich  is the headof the co -ord inated  s t ructure  fo l lowing"Any" whereas  the superord inate  of"ammunit ion" is the unmodi f ied  noun"mater ia l ."
Of the 97 examples  of "Any"-NP only two fai led to conta in  an overttaxonomic  superord inate  fo l lowing "Any."2a.
week any seven consecut ive  daysb.
couple any two persons pa i redtogetherIn each of these cases there is animpl ic i t  taxonomic superord inate  "set.
"The second f requent ly  occurr ing  subsetof noun def in i t ions  conta in ing  "Any"begins with the fo l lowing pattern: "Anyof"-NP.
This pattern has two pr inc ipa lrea l i zat ions  depend ing  upon whatimmediate ly  fo l lows "Any of."
In onesub-pat tern  a quant i f ier ,  numer icexpression,  or "the" fo l lows the init ial"Any of" and begins an NP which conta insthe superord inate  of the noun beingdefined.
This pattern is s imi lar  to thatdescr ibed above for the "Any"-NP formula.1133a.
doctor  any of several  br ight lyco lored ar t i f i c ia l  f l iesb.
a l lomorph any of two or more d is t inctc rysta l l ine  forms of the samesubstance.c.
e lder  any of var ious  churchof f icersThe other sub-pat tern  expresses  ab io log ica l  taxonomic  re la t ionsh ip  and hasthe fo l lowing de f in i t ion  structure:"Any of a/an"<opt ional> modi f ie rtaxonomic  level" ( "sc ient i f i c  name")""of" taxonomic  superord inatee i ther  a t t r ibutes  or taxonomicsubord inateThe modi f ie r  is opt ional  and modi f iesthe taxonomic level of the noun beingdefined; the cap i ta l i zed  sc ient i f i c  nameof the level fo l lows in parenthes is ;  thetaxonomic  superord inate  can be a noun ora complex  NP and is the object  of thesecond "of" in the formula; and thein format ion  fo l lowing the superord inateis genera l ly  a co -ord inated  structure,f requent ly  co -ord inated  NPs.
Of the 901instances of the de f in i t ion - in i t ia l  "Anyof a/an" sequence 853, or 95 per cent,were b io log ica l  def in i t ions.4a.
ant any of a fami ly (Formicidae)of co lonia l  hymenopterousinsects w i th  complex socia lo rgan izat ion  and var iouscastes per fo rming  specia lduties.b.
grass any of a large fami ly(Gramineae) ofmonocoty ledonous  most lyherbaceous  p lants  w i th  jo intedstems, s lender  sheath ingleaves, and f lowers borne insp ike lets  of bracts.c.
acar ld  any of an order (Acarina) ofa rachn ids  inc lud ing mites andticks.d.
cerc is  any of a small  genus (Cerci s)of leguminous shrubs or lowtrees.e.
nematode any of a class or phy lum(Nematoda) of e longatedcy l indr ica l  worms paras i t i c  inan imals  or p lants  orf ree- l iv ing  in soi l  or water.f.
a rchaeorn is  any of a genus(Archaeornis)  of upperJurass ic  toothed birds.The only sequences  wh ich  break fromthe pat tern  descr ibed  above are non-b io log ica l  def in i t ions ,  wh ich  do not haveparenthet ica l  in format ion  fo l lowing thehead noun of the NP fo l lowing "Any ofa/an" and b io log ica l  de f in i t ions  wherethat head noun is "breed."5a.
g lobu l in  any of a c lass of s impleprote ins  (as myosin) inso lub lein pure water  but so lub le  ind i lute  salt  so lut ions  thatoccur w ide ly  in p lant  andanimal  t issues.b.
ro t twe i le r  any of a breed of tallv igorous  b lack  shor t -ha i redcatt le  dogs.c.
po land  china any of an Amer icanbreed of large wh i te -markedb lack  swine of the lard type.The de f in i t ion  for "g lobul in"i l lus t rates  that even when a non-b io log ica l  de f in i t ion  has a parenthes is ,that parenthet i ca l  in fo rmat ion  does notimmediate ly  fo l low the NP fo l lowing "Anyof a/an."
The other de f in i t ions  in (5)are instances of "breed" fo l lowing "Anyof a/an."
In general ,  when a de f in i t ionbegins  w i th  "Any of a/an" it is a lmostcer ta in ly  a b io log ica l  de f in i t ion  andthat cer ta in ty  is increased if the "Anyof a /an  noun" is immediate ly  fo l lowed byparenthes is  un less  the noun of thepat tern  is "breed.
"THE MEMBER-SET  RELAT IONAnother  de f in ing  formula w i th  anin teres t ing  resemblance  to taxonomy alsooccurs  in noun def in i t ions .
The pat tern"A member  of" -NP is s imi lar  to the basico rgan izat ion  of the "Any" de f in i t ions  inthat the immediate  superord inate  of thenoun being de f ined  is the object  of theprepos i t ion  "of" except in this pat ternthe re la t ionsh ip  is, of course, member-set.6a.
hand a member  of a sh ip 's  crew.b.
ear l  a member  of the th ird gradeof the Br i t i sh  peerage rank ingbe low a marquess  and above av iscount .c.
F rank  a member  of a West Germanicpeople  enter ing  the Romanprov inces  in A.D. 253,occupy ing  the Nether lands  andmost of Gaul, and es tab l i sh ingthemselves  a long the Rhine.d.
repub l i can  a member  of a po l i t i ca l114party  advocat ing  repub l i can isme.
Fox a member  of an Indian peopleformer ly  l iv ing in Wisconsin.f.
Ep iscopa l ian  a member  of an episcopalchurch (as the ProtestantEpiscopal  Church).g.
fr iar a member  of a mendicant  orderWhat we have here is a gener ic  termfor any member  of the spec i \ [ led  set.
ItIs perhaps best thought of as s imi lar  tothe part -whole  re lat ion -- a hand is partof a crew, a Frank is part of a tribe, anearl is (somewhat inelegantly)  part of apeerage.In our data the nouns being def inedwi th  this formula are invar iab ly  human.Of the 581 def in i t ions  wh ich  begin wi th"A member of" only nine def ine non-humannouns and two of those areanthropomorphic .7a.
Jo tunn a member of a race of g iantsin Norse mytho logyb.
Houyhnhnm a member of a race ofhorses endowed with  reason inSwif t 's  qu~l i~!~ ~ Y ~ .Why is it important  to mark nouns in alex icon as exp l ic i t ly  human?
Many verbscan take only human subjects  or objects.Also, the choice between the re lat ivepronouns Vb9 and which depends on whetherthe referent  is human or not.The member-set  re lat ion needs to bed is t ingu ished from another  re lat ion thatc lass i f ies  a spec i f ic  indiv idual  as in8a.
Circe sorceress  who changedOdysseus' men into swine.GENERIC AGENTSGener ic  agents are the typical  f i l lersof the agent argument  sot for a g ivenverb.
They are par t i cu la r ly  va luable  inunders tand ing  intersentent ia l  referencesor generat ing  them.
One very surpr is ingsource of def in i t ions  for human nouns isthe formula "One that."
Of the 1419examples of this pattern 694, or 49 percent were ver i f iab ly  human.
That is, itwas poss ib le  to determine from thedef in i t ion  itself or from assoc iateddef in i t ions,  such as a re lated verb, thatthe noun being def ined was +human.
Thisest imate is, therefore, conservat ive.
Itwas also determined that a large port ionof these def in i t ions  (30 per cent) wereof occupations.9a.
go ldbeater  one that beats gold intogold leafb.
po l l s ter  one that conducts  a poll  orcompi les  data obta ined by apoll.c.
schoo lmaster  one that d isc ip l inesor directs.d.
hat ter  one that makes, sells, orc leans and repairs  hats.e.
assass in  one that murders  e i therfor hire or for fanat icalmotives.f.
taxpayer  one that pays or isl iable to pay a taxg.
te letyp ls t  one that operates ateletypewriter.WHAT THE PARENTHESES TELL USThe formula "one (..)" of fers  veryd i f ferent  information.
(This formulatyp ica l ly  occurs somewhere in the midd leof a def in i t ion,  not at the beginning.
)If the f irst word of the parenthet ica lin format ion is not "as", a de f in i t ionwhich begins wi th  this pat tern  is ab io logica l  def in i t ion.
The parenthet ica lmater ia l  is the sc ient i f i c  name of thenoun being def ined.
These def in i t ionsare sub-def in i t ions  and almost  invar iab lyfo l low "esp: ".lOa.
p impernel  any of a genus (Anagall is)of herbs of the pr imrosefamily; e~P: one (A. aryensis)whose scarlet,  white, orpurp l i sh  f lowers c lose at theapproach of ra iny or c loudyweather.b.
whe lk  any of numerous large mar inesnai ls  (as of the genusBuccinum);  esp: one(B~ undatum) much used asfood in Europe.c.
tu rn ip  either  of two b iennia l  herbsof the mustard  fami ly  wi ththick roots eaten as avegetab le  or fed to stock, one(Brassic@ rapa) wi th  hai ryleaves and usu.
f lat tenedroots.d.
capuch in  any of a genus (~ebus)of So.
Amer ican  monkeys;esp one (C. capuc!nas)wi th  the hair  on its crownresembl ing a monk's  cowl.e.
c roton any of a genus (Crot0n) of115herbs and shrubs of the spurgefamil, one (C. @lute~ia) ofthe Bahamas y ie ld ingcascar i l la  bark.f.
bu l ly  tree any of several  tropicalAmer ican  trees of theSapodi l lo  family; es~ one(Mani lkara bid entata) thaty ie lds ba lata  gum and heavyred timber.SUFFIX DEF IN IT IONSThe def in ing  pat tern  "One.. .
( .
.
.spec i f ic  /such.
.
. )"
is an interest ingsequence wh ich  is only used to def inesuff ixes.
The words "specif ic"  and"such" s ignal  this whi le  at the same timeind icat ing what  semant ic  in format ionshould  be taken from the stem to wh ichthe suf f ix  is aff ixed.11a.
-e r  one that is a su i tab le  objectof (a spec i f ied  act ion).b.
-ate one acted upon (in a spec i f iedway).c.
-morph one hav ing (such) a form.d.
-path one suf fer ing  from (such) anai lment.e.
-ant one that per forms (a spec i f iedact ion).f.
-grapher  one that wr i tes  about(specif ied) mater ia l  or in a(specif ied) way.Examples  assoc ia ted  wi th  some of thede f in i t ions  in (10) are " isomorph,""psychopath,"  and "v io l in ist ."
We are inthe  process  of ana lyz ing  all instances ofparenthet ica l  "speci f ied" and "such" todetermine whether  the def in ing  formulaexempl i f ied  by (10) is a general  approachto the de f in i t ion  of aff ixes.
Clearly,the use of parentheses  is verys igni f icant ,  s igna l l ing  an importantsemant ic  d is t inct ion.WHAT NOUN DEF IN IT IONS TELL US ABOUT VERBSNoun def in ing  patterns  can prov ideimportant  in format ion  about spec i f icverbs.
Not surpr is ingly ,  one of these isthe pat tern  "Act of Ving" wh ich  is anind icator  of act ion  verbs.Act ion  verbs d i f fer  from stat lve verbsin a number of important  ways.
Act ionverbs l lke b i te and Re rsuade can appearin imperat ive sentences,  whi le  s tat lveverbs l ike own and resemble  cannot:Bite that man!Persuade him to go!
*Own the house!
*Resemble your father!Ac t ion  verbs take the progress ive  aspect;s tat ive verbs do not:She is b i t ing  the man.She is persuad ing  him to go.
*She is owning the house.
*She is resembl ing  your father.Act ion  verbs can appear in a number ofembedded sentences  where stat ives cannotbe used.I told her to bite the man.
*I told her to own the house.In de f in i t ions  the act ion  verb  appearsas the gerund ive  object  of theprepos i t ion  "of" or as the present - tenseverb of the subord inate  clause.12a.
p lumbing  the act of us ing a plumb.b.
forg iveness  the act of forgiving.c.
so l i l oquy  the act of ta lk ing tooneself .d.
p ro jec t ion  the act of throwing orshoot ing forward.e.
re fund the act of re fund ingf.
p ro t rus ion  the act of protruding.g.
invest i ture  the act of ra t i fy ingor es tab l i sh ing  in off ice.The examples  in (11) indicate that there lated verb is not a lwaysmorpho log ica l ly  related.
This pat terncould, therefore,  be used as a means ofaccess ing  semant ica l ly  re lated verbs andnouns or as a tool for the const ruct ionof a semant ic  network.
"The act of Ving" de f in i t ions  have asubpat tern  wh ich  cons is ts  of "The act ofV ing or the state of be ing <adj>."
Thereare not many examples  of this subpattern,but in all but one instance the nounbeing def ined, the verb and the ad ject iveare morpho log ica l ly  related.13a.
adornment  the act of adorn ing  or thestate of be ing adorned.b.
popu lar i za t ion  the act ofpopu lar i z ing  or the state ofbe ing popu lar i zedc.
nour i shment  the act of nour i sh ing  orthe state of being nour ished.116d.
in t rus ion  the act of int rud ing or thestate of being intruded.e.
embodiment  the act of embody ing  orthe state of be ing embodied.In contrast,  our data do not supportthe use of the cor respond ing  formula "Thestate of be ing" -past  part.
forident i fy ing  stat ive verbs, Manyinstances of this pat tern  appear  to bepass ives  or s tat ive use of normal ly  non-s tat ive verbs.
This pos i t ion  issupported by the presence of a fairnumber of def in i t ions  which con jo in  thetwo formulae.14a.
d i sp lacement  the act or processof d isp lac ing:  the state ofbeing displaced.b.
examinat ion  the act or process ofexamining:  the state of be ingexamined.c.
expans ion  the act or process  ofexpanding.
The qua l i ty  orstate of being expanded.It is l ike ly that the formula "Thequa l i ty  or state of be ing" -past  part.
isa s tat ive verb ind icator  when it does notco-occur  wi th  "Act of" def in i t ions .Support  comes from the f requency wi thwhich that pat tern  a l ternates  adject ives,wh ich  are normal ly  stat ive, w i th  the pastpart ic ip le.SELECT IONAL INFORMATIONFOR VERB DEF IN IT IONSA l though the s t ructure  of verbdef in i t ions  is much more l imited thanthat of noun def in i t ions,  e lements  ofverb def in i t ions  do prov ide in terest ingins ights into co l locat lona l  informat ion.One s t r ik ing  example of this is the useof parenthet ica l  in fo rmat ion  wh ich  f lagstypical  ins tant ia t ions  of case argumentsfor the verb being def ined.
The mostcons is tent  of these patterns is "To"-V-(<"as">NP) where the NP is the typicalobject  of the verb being defined.15a.
mount  to put or have (as art i l lery)in posit ion.b.
lay to br ing forth and depos i t  (anegg) .c.
deve lop  to subject  (exposedphetograph ic  mater ia l )  to ausu.
chemical  t reatment.
.
.We are in the process  of determin inghow cons is tent  the parenthet i ca l  "as" isin s igna l l ing  typical  case relat ions.SELECTIONAL INFORMATION FOR ADJECT IVESAd ject ive  def in i t ions  d i f fer  fromthose of nouns and verbs in that whi lenouns are v i r tua l ly  a lways def ined interms of other nouns and verbs in termsof other verbs, only about 10 percent  ofad ject ives  are def ined in terms of otherad ject ives  -- the rest are re lated tonouns or somet imes to verbs.Furthermore,  the semant ic  in format ion  inan ad ject ive  de f in i t ion  refers more tothe noun (or type of noun) modi f ied  bythe ad ject ive  than it does to thead ject ive  itself.
This is because anadject ive,  together wi th  the noun itmodif ies,  def ines a taxonomicre la t ionsh ip  -- or, to put it anotherway, denotes  a feature of the thingdef ined in the ad jec t ive+noun phrase.For instance, we can say e i ther  that thephrase "big dog" denotes  a par t icu lark ind of (the more general  term) "dog"; orthat it denotes  a dog wi th  the addi t iona lfeature of "bigness".A useful  piece of in format ion  we wouldl ike to get from ad ject ive  def in i t ions  isse lect iona l  in format ion  -- what sort ofnoun the ad ject ive  can mean ingfu l lymodify.
Se lect iona l  res t r i c t ions  areharder  to f ind and are large ly  negat ive  -- for instance, the formula "contain ing"def ines  ad ject ives  that do not (in thesense so defined) mod i fy  an imate nouns.10a.
bas ic  conta in ing  re la t ive ly  l i t t lesi l ica.b.
normal  conta in ing  ne i ther  basichydroxyl  nor ac id hydrogen.The same is true of some othermoderate ly  common formulae, such as"cons ist ing of", "extending" and"causing".
We hope that further ana lys iswi l l  a l low us to f ind more ind icat ions ofse lect iona l  character i s t i cs  ofadject ives.RECOGNIZ ING ACT ION VS. STATIVE ADJECT IVESOne proper ty  be long ing  more toad ject ives  themselves  than to theirassoc ia ted  nouns is an act ive -s ta t ived is t inc t ion  s imi lar  to that found inverbs.
The test for an "active"ad ject ive  is that one may use it in as tatement  of the form "they are being ----" or in the command "be .. .
.
\]" e.g.
"beaggress ive!"
or "be good!
",  but not *"betal l!"
or *"be ba l l i s t ic !"
As theseexamples  indicate, most  ad ject ives  thatcan be used act ive ly  can also be used117stat ive ly  -- aggress iveness  or goodnessmay be thought of as a state rather thanas an act ion -- but not the other wayaround.Contrary  to our expectat ions,  theact ive -s tat ive  parameter  of ad ject ives  ismuch easier  to ident i fy  in def in i t ionsthan is se lect lona l  information.
Some ofthe def in ing formulae d iscussed in Smith(1981) and Ahlswede (1985b) seem to bel imited to stat lve adject ives.
"Of orre lat ing to", one of the most common, isone of these:fla. ba l l i s t i c  of or re lat ing toba l l i s t i cs  or to a body inmot ion accord ing to the lawsof bal l ist ics.b.
l i terary  of or re lat ing to books.A l though many ad ject ives  def ined wi th"of or re lat ing to" can be used act ive lyin other senses, they are s t r i c t lystat ive in the senses where this formulais used:12a.
civi l  of or re lat ing to c i t izens<~ l ibert ies>.b.
peacefu l  of or re lat ing to a stateor t ime of peace.The common formula "being ...", on theother hand, def ines  ad ject ives  wh ich  atleast lean toward the act ion end of thespectrum:13a.
natura l  being in accordance wi thor determined by nature.b.
cursed being under or deserv ing  acurse.Even such a normal ly  stat ive ad ject ive  as" l iquid" is re lat ive ly  act ive in one ofits senses:14a.
l iquid being musical  and free ofharshness  in sound.By no means all formulae giveind icat ions of the s tat ive -act ivequa l i t ies  of an adject ive.
A largefamily of formulae ("having","character ized by", "marked by", etc.
)denot ing attr ibut ion,  are complete lyneutral  wi th  respect to this parameter.SUMMARYW7 contains a wea l th  of impl ic itinformation.
We have presented methodsfor making some of this in format ionexpl ic i t  by focuss ing on spec i f icformulae found in noun, verb, andad ject ive  def in i t ions.
Most of theseformulae appear at the start  ofdef in i t ions,  but we have alsodemonst rated  that important in format ioncan be extracted from syntact ic  andgraphemic  elements,  such asparenthet ica ls .
The in format ion  we haveext racted involves lexical  re la t ionsh ipssuch as taxonomy and set membership,se lect iona l  restr ict ions,  and specia lsubcategor ies  of nouns, verbs, andadject ives.
This in format ion  is used byan automat ic  lex icon bui lder  to createlexical  entr ies  automat ica l ly  from W7def in i t ions.REFERENCESAhiswede, Thomas.
1985a.
"A Tool Kit forLex icon Bui ld ing,"  P roceed ings  of the23rd Annual  Meet ing  of the ACL, Chicago,pp.
268-278.Ahlswede, Thomas.
1985b.
"A L ingu is t icStr ing Grammar for Ad ject iveDef in i t ions ,"  in S. Wi l l iams,  ed.,Humansand Machines:  The Inter facethrough Language.
Ablex, Norwood, NJ, pp.101-127.Ahlswede,  Thomas and Martha  Evens.
1983.
"Generat ing a Re lat iona l  Lex icon from aMach ine-Readab le  Dict ionary .
"Forthcoming.Amsler, Robert.
1980.
The St ructure  ofthe Merr iam-Webster  Pocket Dict ionary.Ph.D.
D issertat ion,  Computer  Science,Un ivers i ty  of Texas, Austin.Amsler, Robert.
1981.
"A Taxonomy forEngl ish  Nouns and Verbs."
P roceed ings  ofthe 19th Annual  Meet ing  of the ACL,Stanford, pp.
133-138.Amsler, Robert.
1982.
"Computat iona lLexicology:  A Research Program.
"Proceed ings  of the Nat ional  ComputerConference,  AFIPS, pp.
657-663.Amsler, Robert  and John White, 1979.Deve lopment  of a Computat iona lMethodo logy  for Der iv ing  Natura l  LanguageSemant ic  St ructures  v ia  Ana lys is  ofMach ine-Readab le  Dict ionar ies .
TR MCS77-01315, L ingu is t ics  Research Center,Un ivers i ty  of Texas.Apresyan, Yuri, Igor Mel 'cuk,  andA lexander  Zholkovsky.
1970.
"Semant icsand Lexicography:  Towards a New Type ofUni l ingual  D ict ionary ,"  in F.
Kiefer,ed., Studies in Syntax and Semantics,Reidel,  Dordrecht,  Hol land, pp.
1-33.Chodorow, Mart in  and Roy Byrd, 1985.
"Extract ing Semant ic  H ierarch ies  from a118Large On-Line Dictionary."
Proceedingsof the 23rd Annual Meeting of the ACL,pp.
299-304.Evens, Martha and Raoul Smith.
1978.
"ALexicon for a Computer Question-AnsweringSystem", American Journal ofComputational Linguistics, No.
4, pp.
1-96.Evens, Martha, Bonnie Litowitz, JudithMarkowitz, Raoul Smith, and OswaldWerner.
1980.
Lexical-SemanticRelations: a Comparative Survey,Linguistic Research, Inc., Edmonton,Alberta, 1980.Evens, Martha, James Vandendorpe, andYih-Chen Wang.
1985.
"Lexical-SemanticRelations in Information Retrieval", inS.
Williams, ed., Humans and Machines.Ablex, Norwood, New Jersey, pp.
73-100.Fox, Edward.
1980.
"Lexical Relations:Enhancing Effectiveness of InformationRetrieval Systems," ACM SIGIR Forum, 15,3, pp.
5-36.Kucera, Henry, and Nelson Francis.
1967.Computational Analysis of Present-DayAmerican English, Brown University Press,Providence, Rhode Island.Li, Ping-Yang, Thomas Ahlswede, CarolCurt, Martha Evens, and Daniel Hier.1985.
"A Text Generation Module for aDecision Support System for Stroke",Proc.
1985 Conference on Intell igentSystems and Machines, Rochester,Michigan, April.Mel'cuk, Igor, and Alexander Zholkovsky.1985.
Explanatory-Combinatory Dict ionaryof Russian, Wiener Slawisticher Almanach,Vienna.Mel'cuk, Igor, Nadia Arbatchewsky-Jumarie, Leo Elnitzky, Lidia Iordanskaya,and Adele Lessard.
1984.
Dict lonnalreExpllcatif et Combinatoire du FrancaisContemporaln, Presses de l"Universite deMontreal, Montreal.Michiels, A., 1981.
Exploit ing a LargeDict ionary Data Base.
Ph.D. Thesis,University of Liege, Belgium.Michiels, A., 1983.
"Automatic Analysisof Texts."
Workshop on Machine ReadableDictionaries, SRI, Menlo Park, Ca.Olney, John, Carter Revard, and PaulZeff.
1967.
"Processor for Machine-Readable Version of Webster's Seventh atSystem Development Corporation."
TheFinite String, 4.3, pp.
1-2.Sager, Naomi.
1981.
Natural LanguageInformation Processing.
Addison-Wesley,New York.Smith, Raoul.
1981.
"On DefiningAdjectives, Part III."
In Dictionaries:Journal of the Dict ionary Society ofNorth America, no.
3, pp.
28-38.Wang, Yih-Chen, James Vandendorpe, andMartha Evens.
1985.
"Relational Thesauriin Information Retrieval", JASIS, Vol.36, No.
i, pp.
15-27.Webster's Seventh New Col legiateDictionary, 1963.
G.aC.
Merriam Company,Springfield, Massachusetts.White, Carolyn.
1983.
"The LinguisticString Project Dict ionary for AutomaticText Analysis," Workshop on Machine-Readable Dictionaries, SRI, April.119
