BRINGING NATURAL LANGUAGE PROCESSING TO THE MICROCOMPUTER MARKETTHE STORY OF Q&AGary G. HendrixSymantec Corporation10201 Torre AvenueCupertino, CA 95014OVERVIEWThis is the story of how one of the newnatural language processing productsreached the marketplace.
On the surface,it is the story of one NL researcher-turned-entrepreneur (yours truly) and ofone product, Q&A.
But this is not just mystory: It is in microcosm the story of NLemerging from the confines of the academicworld, which in turn is an instance of theold theme "science goes commercial.
"BACKGROUNDIn September of 1985, Symantec introducedits first commercial product, Q&A.
Q&A isa $299 integrated business-productivitytool for the IBM PC/XT/AT and compatibles.It includesa file management system,a report generator,a word processor,a spell ing checker andan "intel l igent assistant" or "IA.
"The IA lets users manipulate databases andproduce reports by issuing commands orasking questions in English.WHY Q&A IS IMPORTANTQ&A is important to everyone with aninterest in natural language processingbecause it is br inging NL technology tothe attention of the world at large.Already Q&A is the most widely used NLsystem ever developed, with hundreds ofpeople now using it on a daily basis andthousands using it occasionally.
Here isa small sampling of the reaction:* SoftSel, the largest US distr ibutor ofmicrocomputer software, publ ishes abiweekly "hot list" ranking itsbest-sel l ing products.
At the time ofthis writing, Q&A is number 3 on thelist, below only dBASE III and Lotus123, with monthly sales in thethousands.
Some weeks Q&A has actuallybeen above Lotus on the charts.
* Every major publ ication addressing theIBM PC market in the U.S., Europe andAustral ia has written about Q&A, andtheir reviews have consistently beenfavorable.
Infoworld gave Q&A a 5 diskrating-- its highest.
PC Week hascalled Q&A the "quintessentialmanagement tool."
In the New YorkTimes, Q&A received an unprecedented2-part review, and it took honors asthe "software product of the year" inAustralia.In a comprehensive survey of filemanagement systems for IBM PCs,Software Digest, which is widelyconsidered to provide the microcomputerindustry's most objective testing, gaveQ&A the highest overall evaluation evergiven to any product in any category.WHAT'S  THE STORY BEHIND Q&ACompressing all detail, Q&A is a directoutgrowth of NL research conducted at SRIInternational in the 1970's.About the time SRI's LADDER project waswinding down, the Apple Computer appearedon the scene and I got the crazy idea thatit would be neat to bui ld a LADDER for theApple.
The known problems were that therewasn't an INTERLISP for the Apple,LADDER's code was over i00 times largerthan the Apple's 48K memory, the Apple wastoo slow, and LADDER couldn't be ported tonew databases relevant to personal use.These turned out to be the easy problems.Getting Q&A off the ground eventual lyentai led starting two companies, comingclose to going broke on mult ipleoccasions, putt ing a number of personalfriends through months or years of stress,bui lding a new culture for AI/micro/marketing cross ferti l ization, andlearning about lawyers, finance, productmarketing, PC DOS, C, advertising, PR,promotions, sales, and end users.
But inthe end, the product happened.CONCLUSIONThousands of people now own or use NLsystems, and hundreds of thousands haveread about them.
The world of NL haschanged, and new opportunit ies forresearch and commercial izat ion abound.Acknowledgment :  Major contributors to thedesign/ implementat ion of Q&A's IA were DanGordon, Brett Walter and Denis Coleman.
