The ROMPER System: Responding to Object-RelatedMisconceptions using Perspective 1Kathleen F. McCoyDept.
of Computer and Information SciencesUniversity of DelawareNewark, De.
19716Abst rac t  IAs a user interacts with a database or expert system,s/he may reveal a misconception about the objects modeledby the system.
This paper discusses the ROMPER system forresponding to such misconceptions in a domain independentand context sensitive fashion.
ROMPER reasons about possiblesources of the misconception.
It operates on a model of the userand generates a cooperative response based on this reasoning.The process is made context sensitive by augmenting the usermodel with a new notion of object perspective which highlightscertain aspects of the user model due to previous discourse.1 Introduct ionA study of transcripts of expert-user dialogues revealsthat users often exhibit misconceptions about the objects mod-eled in a domain.
This paper describes the ROMPER system(Responding to Object-Related Misconceptions using PERspec-tive) which is able to respond to certain classes of these mis-conceptions in a principled manner.
In doing so the systemsheds light not only on the process of correcting misconcep-tions, but also on issues in natural-language neration, usermodels, and modeling certain contextual effects by a "filtering"of the knowledge representation.The ROMPER system functions as a part of a natural-language interface to a database or expert system.
Input toROMPER is a specification that a misconception has been de-tected.
In this work a miscwnception is defined to be somediscrepancy between what the system believes (i.e., what is con-tained in the system knowledge base) and what the user believes(as exhibited through the conversation).
The system knowledgebase includes an object taxonomy and knowledge about objectattributes and their possible values.Several factors may influence the structure and contentof responses to queries that reveal misconceptions.
These in-dude the goals of the conversstional participants.
If the mis-conception is not important o these goals, the response maynot address the misconception or may address it only mini-maliy.
ROMPER is concerned with correcting misconceptionsthat are important o the current goals of the conversationalparticipants and is thus concerned with generating a maximalIMuch of this work wu done while the author wM at the University ofPennsylvania and was partially supported by the ARO grant DAA20-84-K-0061 and the NFS grant MCS81-07290.response.
This response is aimed at eliminating the discrepancybetween what the user believes and what the system believesby bringing the user's knowledge into line with the system's.This means that the system must not only give the user thecorrect information, but must present it in such a way so asto have the user adopt that information.
ROMPER has a usermodel available to aid in this task.
The user model constituteswhat the system believes the user believes about the domain.
Itcontains the same kind of information as is contained in the sys-tem's knowledge base - -  an object taxonomy and informationabout objects' attributes and their values.
The content of theuser model, however, may be very different from the content ofthe system's knowledge base.
For instance, it may contain lessinformation than is contained in the system knowledge base,or it may contain some information that is inconsistent withthe system knowledge base.
The user model will not, how-ever, contain more information than is contained in the systemknowledge base since the system is assumed to be an expert inthe domain.In an attempt o respond to a misconception i  a naturalway, the system operates on the model of the user attemptingto find certain structural configurations which might indicatesupport for the misconception.
If one of the configurations ifound, then a response is generated that refutes the found sup-port.
ROMPER is specifically concerned with responding totwo kinds of misconceptions: those involving an object's clas-sification (which I call misclassifications) and those involvingan objects attributes (which I call n~attr ibut lons).
Certainstructural configurations have been identified indicating pos-sible support for both kinds of misconceptions.
Each identi-fied configuration has a response strategy associated with itwhich may be instantiated to respond to the misconception.The whole process is made context sensitive by a new notionof object perspective which acts to filter the user model, high-lighting those aspects which are made important by previousdialogue, while suppressing others.
The filtering gained by ob-ject perspective allows the same misconception by the same userto be responded to differently in different contextual situations.Output from ROMPER is a formal specification of a re-sponse.
This specification is then input to the MUMBLE sys-tem \[McDS01 which, using a dictionary and grammer suppliedby Robin Karlin \[Kar85\], produces actual English text.972 Misconception ResponsesThe view of natural-language neration taken in thissystem is the same as that taken in \[McK82\].
The generationprocess is seen as consisting of two parts: (1) determining thecontent and structure of the response and producing a formalmessage specification, and (2) transforming that specificationinto actual English text.
My work has concentrated on deter-mining the content and structure of a response to a misconcep-tion.
It attempts to automate the process of deciding what in-formation to include in a response to a misconception by givingthe system the ability to reason about certain classes of miscon-ceptions and typical ways of correcting misconceptions in oneof the identified classes.
This should be contrasted with the apriori listing of misconceptions and responses found in mostexisting systems that handle misconceptions (\[SC80\], \[BB78\],and \[Woo84\]).
2The form of the responses generated by ROMPER de-rived from an analysis of transcripts of human conversationalpartners.
These transcripts revealed that responses to state-ments containing misconceptions often include more than a sim-ple denial of the wrong information.
This is particularly true incircumstances where the misconception is about something im-portant o the current goals of the participants.
In addition todenying the information involved in the misconception, manymisconception responses include both the corresponding cor-rect information, and additional justification for the denial andcorrection given.
The justification often involves refuting faultyreasoning that may have led the user to the misconception.While it may seem that the kinds of faulty reasoning thatthe user may be using to arrive at a misconception are limitless,the transcript analysis revealed a surprisingly small number ofmisconception support relations that are refuted by the humanexperts.
In addition, these few misconception support relationscan be couched in terms of a knowledge base (KB) structurerather than its content.
Thus a system reasoning on a model ofthe user might look for such relations in a domain independentfashion.
If one is found, information refuting the misconceptionsupport might be included in the corrective response.To see this, let us examine the number of ways that ahuman expert was found to correct one of the misconceptiontypes handled by ROMPER: misclas~ifications.
The strategiesused by the human experts to respond to a miselassificationcan be exemplified by the number of possible responses to thefollowing misconception:U. I thought whales were fish.R1.
No, they are mammals.
You may have thought hey werefish because they are fin-bearing and live in the water.However, they are mammals ince, (while fish have gills)whales breathe through lungs and feed their young with2\[Woo84\] represents a departure from the canned response in that sheis concerned with appropriately structuring a response to reflect a certaintutoring style.milk.R2.
No, they are mammals.
You may have thought hey werefish since they are like the fish, sharks, in that both arelarge aquatic creatures and both scare people.
However,whales are mammals ince, (while fish have gills) whalesbreathe through lungs and feed their young with milk.R3.
No, they are mammals.Before analyzing each one of these in detail, let us firstnote their similarities.
Each of the above strategies can be seenas consisting of three parts: (1) a denial of the incorrect clas-sification, (2) a statement of the correct classification, and (3)an offering of justification for the denial/correction pair.
Thisthree part strategy is, in fact, typical of all of the responsesfound in the transcript analysis.
Notice that the denial of theincorrect information and the offering of the corresponding cor-rect information is the same in each of the sample responsesgiven.
What distinguishes one kind of response strategy fromanother is the kind of justification given in each case.
ResponsesR1 and R2 offer two different kinds of justi~cation while R3 of-fers no justification.Given that examples of each of the above three kindsof responses were found in the transcripts, we must ask whatcauses one to be used in preference to another in a particularsituation.
One explanation is that different beliefs about whatthe user believes trigger the use of each strategy.
Notice thateach strategy can be seen as refuting a different kind of supportfor the misconception.
My claim is that a speaker may choosea strategy depending on the support that he/she believes theuser may be using to come up with the misconception.
Let ustake each strategy in turn, examine what beliefs might haveled to the use of that strategy, and then investigate how thisinformation might be used by a system to generate responsesto misconceptions.3 Using Response StrategiesThe justification in R1 consists in the expert concedingproperties that whales have in common with fish (fin-bearingand water-living), and overriding that conceded informationwith properties that distinguish whales from fish.
The use ofthis strategy by an expert might be explained by the expert be-lieving that the user believes that whales and fish are similar,and that that similarity may have led to the misclassification.An expert having these beliefs might very well find it reason-able to concede that the similarity between whales and fish doesindeed exist, but then go on to show that that similarity is notenough to classify whales as fish.
S/he may do this, as above,by offering properties that make whales mammals instead offish.Given that this analysis might explain a human's re-sponse to a misconception, we might have a computer system98adopt this strategy to respond to a misconception i  a natu-ral way.
First, the information included in a response like R1can be captured in a response schema s shown below.
R1 canbe seen as an instantiation of this schema where OBJECT isinstantlated with whale, POSITED with fish, and REAL withmammal.
The shared attributes are instantiated in the obviousway.
((deny (classification OBJECT POSITED))(state (classification OBJECT REAL))(concede (share-attributes OBJECTPOSITEDATTRIBUTES1) )(override (share-attributes .....POSITEDATTRIBUTES2) )(overr ide (share-attributes OBJECTREALATTRIBUTES3) ) )The above schema is called the =like-super" schema be-cause it is used by ROMPER when the user exhibits a miscon-ception by wrongly classifying some OBJECT as a POSITEDsuperordinate and when ROMPER determines that a probablereason for the miaclassification is that the user believes that theOBJECT and the POSITED superordinate are similar to eachother.
The schema captures a response like R1 by specifying adenial of the incorrect classification, a statement of the correctclassification, and then an offering of justification.
The justifi-cation is in the form of conceding the similarity that may haveled to the miaclassification (e.g., the shared attributes), butoverriding that conceded information with attributes that arenot shp-ed by the OBJECT and the POSITED superordlnatebut instead istinguish the two.It should be pointed out that this schema encodes twokinds of information: a domain-independent specification of thecontent of each proposition included in the response (e.g., anobject classification or shared attributes between objects), aswell as information about the rhetorical force or communica-tive role played by each proposition (e.g., a denial or state-ment or conceded information).
The content specification isderived from the transcript analysis.
The rhetorical force isderived from both the transcript analysis and from work doneby \[McK82\], \[MT83\], and \[Man84\] who have developed theo-ries about the role that a proposition can play in a discourse.The goal in using such a schema is to have a specification of aresponse that may be filled in with information from the usermodel and that, when instantiated, contains enough rhetori-cal information to be turned into a cohesive English text bya tactical component.
The schema bove meets both of theserequirements.The justification included in R2 is also in the form of aconcede/overrlde pair.
However, in the case of R2, rather thanconcede a similarity between whales and al___l fish, a similaritybetween whales and some subset of fish (i.e., the sharks) isconceded.
The use of this response might be explained by theexpert believing that the user believes whales and sharks to besimilar and salient at this point in the discourse.
The expertmight imagine the user to have reasoned: "I don't know how toclassify whales, but I do know that they are similar to sharksand I know that sharks are fish.
Perhaps whales are fish aswell.
"This analysis was used in developing ROMPER by asso-ciating a schema based on responses like R2 with a user modelconfiguration showing a similarity between the misclassifled ob-ject and some descendent of the posited superordinate.
Theschema is termed the "llke-some-super" schema nd is shownbelow:((deny (classification OBJECT POSITED))(state (classification OBJECT REAL))(concede (similarityOBJECTDESCENDENT(share-attributes OBJECTDESCENDENTATTRIBUTESI) ) )(override (share-attributes OBJECTREALATTRIBUTES2) ) )Response R3 can be thought of as the degenerate strat-egy since it contains no justification for the denial/correctionpair.
ROMPER instantiates the schema corresponding to R3when neither of the two above mentioned knowledge base con-figurations can be found in the user model.So far this paper has concentrated on mlselassifications.ROMPER also handles mlsconceptions involving an object'sattributes.
The transcript analysis revealed three correctionstrategies for misattributions a exemplefied by the followingresponses:U.
What is the interest rate on this stock?R4.
Stock doesn't have an interest rate.
Were you thinking ofa bond?RS.
Stock doesn't have an interest rate.
Did you mean divi-dend?R6.
Stock doesn't have an interest rate.ROMPER employs three correction schema to handlemisattributlons; one for each of the response strategies shown.R4 can be seen as in instantiation of ROMPER's wrong-objectschema.
This schema offers an object which has the attributeinvolved in the misconception that the user may have eitherconfused with the misconception bject or made a bad analogyfrom.
It is instantiated when an object is found that has theattribute involved in the misattribution and is similar to themisconception bject.R5 exemplifies the wrong-attribute schema which offersan attribute that the object involved in the misconception does99have.
This response is used when there is reason to beLievethe user may have confused the attribute involved in the mis-conception with a similar attribute that the object does have.ROMPER uses the schema when the misconception object hasan attribute that is similar to the attribute involved in the mis-conception.As is the case with the misclassifications, there is a ~de-generate" schema for misattributions.
This schema contains nojustification for the correction and is exempLified by R6.In summary, a study of transcripts of humans respondingto misconceptions reveals a great deal of regularity in the waymisconceptions about objects are corrected.
One can abstracta small number of response strategies for each of the variousknowledge base features that might be involved in a misconcep-tion.
Each of these strategies can be seen as refuting a differentkind of support hat the user may have for the information in-volved in the misconception.
These strategies are captured asschemas in the ROMPER system and each schema is associatedwith a domain independent description of the kind of supportit refutes.
ROMPER,  when faced with a misconception, oper-ates on a model of the user looking for evidence for one of theidentified kinds of support.
If enough evidence is found, theresponse to the misconception is generated by instantiating thecorresponding schema.4 Effects of ContextThe above section outlined a method for correcting mis-conceptions.
While the method does seem to be appealing, atfirst glance it seems to have a major flaw.
It does not seemto take into account the role that previous context plays incorrecting misconceptions.
The responses given by the humanexperts were very context dependent.
In two different contextsa human expert might choose to correct the same misconcep-tion by the same user in two different ways.
For example, inresponse to the misconception exhibited by ~I thought whaleswere fish ", an expert might choose R1 in one context and R2in another.
How can this be explained if the process describedabove is used to respond?I claim that the process of correcting misconceptions iscontext sensitive not because the process changes with context,but because what the process works on changes with context.
Inparticular the piece of the user model that is analyzed in lookingfor possible sources of the misconception changes with context.Instead of doing the user model analysis on a flat representa-tion containing everything that the user knows at equal levelsof importance, the analysis is done on a model that has beenhighlighted by previous discourse.
Previous discourse serves tohighlight certain aspects of the user model while suppressingothers.
Different highlighting resulting from different previ-ous discourse may cause the user model analysis to concludethat different support had been used for the misconception andtherefore cause a different response strategy to be selected.
Ob-ject perspective is a notion which can be used to model thiscontextual effect.5 Object PerspectiveIn this section I introduce a new notion of object per-spective as an augmentation to a standard semantic networkrepresentation.
Before introducing this notion let us first ex-amine what we want this notion to account for.The notion of object perspective has previously been dis-cussed in the Literature.
It can be Likened to the ~point of view ~one takes on an object in a particular discussion.
From a partic-ular point of view certain characteristics of the object seem moreimportant than others.
For instance, a particular building maybe discussed from the point of view of being someones home onthe one hand, and from the completely different pont of viewof being an architectural work on the other.
The two differentviews of the same building cause different groups of attributesto be important.
It is this highlighting of a whole group of at-tributes that must be explained.
Notice that it could not beexplained by a focusing mechanism which highlights attributeswhich have been mentioned in the preceding discourse becausemany of the highLighted attributes may not have been expLicitlymentioned.
What needs to be captured is the feeling that eachview calls to mind a ~precompiled" set of attributes that seemto be important while that view is in effect.An attempt o explain this effect has been made by defin-ing object perspective as viewing an object as a member ofone superordinate when, in fact, it may have many superordi-nates (\[Gro77\], \[BW77\], and \[TWF*82\]).
The highlighting isachieved through a limited inheritance mechanism.
An objectinherits only those attributes contributed by the one superordi-nate deemed "in perspective".
Thus, when a building is viewedas an architectural work, for example, it inherits only those at-tributes associated with the concept architectural-work in thegeneralization hierarchy.
Any attributes that it might inheritfrom other superordinates (e.g., home) are ignored.
While thisnotion is intuitively appealing, in practice it .is problematic (see\[McC85\] for details) and is unable to handle some additional ef-fects which intuitively should be handled by object perspective.Two of these effects will be discussed here.During the course of a conversation it is usually the casethat more than one object will be discussed.
When this hap-pens, usually the same kinds of things are discussed about theobjects.
In essence, a particular highlighting of attributes (orpoint of view) seems to be in force during the conversation.
Yet,this highlighting is applied to different objects.
What seems tobe happening is that the conversational partners are viewing anentire group of objects from the same perspective.
This cannotbe accounted for by the previous definition of object perspectiveunless each of the objects under discussion can be said to havethe same superordinate.A second effect which is not accounted for by the abovedefinition, yet seems to hinge on object perspective, has to do100with the heightened importance of some objects during a dis-course.
For instance, in the responses R1-R3 above, the correctclassification ofwhale was given as mammal.
It is the case, how-ever, that whales are cetaceans and cetaceans are marnmais.
Ifthe expert above thought hat U. knew about cetaceans, whywasn't cetaceans given as the correct classification?
Since therewas no preceding discourse given in this case, some default con-text would have to be in force.
Apparently, in this contextcetacean did not seem important enough to mention.
Yet inother contexts, on can imagine cetacean being given as the cor-rect classification even though it had not yet been explicitlyreferred to in the preceding discourse.
The importance of theobject cetacean seems to have something to do with the currentperspective from which objects are being viewed.
The previousdefinitions of object perspective do not address this issue.5.1 Perspective: Definit ion and Representat ionI claim that all of the above criteria can be met by a simplenotion of object perspective which has the following properties:First, instead of tying perspective into the generalizationhierarchy of objects as has been done in the past, the new notionof perspective will be independent of that hierarchy.
"Perspec-tives" which can be taken on the objects in the domain will bedefined and will sit in a structure which is orthogonai to thegeneralization hierarchy.Second, the number of such perspectives that need bedefined for the objects in a given domain of discourse is smalland finite.
Moreover, any given domain object may be viewedfrom any one of several perspectives defined for that domain.
Asit turns out, it will make more sense to view some of the objectsin the domain through some perspectives and not others, butthis is a feature of perspectives which will be taken advantageof later.Third, each perspective comprises a set of attributeswith associated salience values.
It is these salience values thatdictate which attributes are highlighted and which are sup-pressed.Fourth, one such perspective is designated active at aparticular point in the discourse.This notion of object perspective works as follows.
Anobject or group of objects is still said to be viewed througha perspective.
In particular any object which is accessed bythe system is viewed through the current active perspective.However, instead of dictating which attributes an object in-herits, the active perspective affects the salience values of theattributes that an object possesses (either directly or inheritedthrough the generalization hierarchy).
The active perspectiveessentially acts as a filter on an object's attributes - raising thesalience of and thus highlighting those attributes which havea high salience rating in the active perspective, and loweringthe salience of and thus suppressing those attributes which areeither given a low salience value or do not appear in the activeperspective.The importance of an object in a discourse is determinedby the salience values given to the attributes it possesses.
Theidea is that the whole becomes highlighted by having its partshighlighted.
Thus, during a discussion in which the active per-spective highlights many attributes contributed by the object"cetacean" in our generalization hierarchy, cetacean will be seenas an important object.
If, on the other hand, none of theattributes associated with cetacean are highlighted, then thatobject will be suppressed.This notion of object importance realizes the intuitivenotion that it makes "more sense" to view some objects throughparticular perspectives than others.
It makes more sense toview an object through perspectives that highlight many of theobject's attributes and thereby make the object more domi-nant.
Notice that we can see a certain amount of symmetryhere.
The perspective determines the salience of an object'sattributes and the object's importance; the object and its at-tributes determines how likely the object is to be viewed froma particular perspective.5.2 Us ing  Perspect iveA model of a particular domain would include the usual objecttaxonomy containing all of the objects in the domain and allof the attributes those objects possess.
So in our fish-mammaldomain we would have sharks as a kind of fish with attributeslike "scare-people s and "large-aquatic-creature".
In addition,all of the attributes of fish would also be represented and sharkswould inherit those attributes as well.In addition to the object taxonomy, we must build a sep-arate structure containing the perspectives that can be taken onthe domain objects.
One perspective we might imagine definingfor the fish-mammal domain would be the "body-characteristics"perspective.
In this perspective attributes like "fin-bearing ~,"have-gills", and "breathe-through.lungs ~ would be given highsalience and thus highlighted.
Other attributes would be sup-pressed by this perspective.Another perspective that might be defined for the fish-mammal domain might be the "common-people's-perception"perspective.
This perspective might highlight attributes like"large-aquatic-creatures ~ and *scare-people".
Other attributes,like "have-gills" and ~fin-bearing" might be suppressed by thisperspective.ROMPER uses the highlighting from object perspectivein two ways.
First, during the user model analysis it uses theinformation to check for user model configurations which mightindicate particular kinds of support for a misconception.
Sec-tion 2 introduced two user model configurations which wereassociated with response schemas.
The like-super schema wasassociated with a user model configuration that indicated thatthe user believed the misclassified object was like the posited su-perordinate.
The like-some-super schema was associated with auser model configuration that indicated that the user believedthe misclassified object was like some descendent of the poeited101superordinate.
Notice that both of these user model configu-rations hinge on a similarity assessment between objects.
Thesimilarity metric used by ROMPER is one that is based on theobjects' common and disjoint attributes which takes attributesalience into account \[Tve77\].
This metric will be discussed be-low.
Since the similarity metric takes attribute salience intoaccount and attribute salience is effected by object perspective,the active perspective can influence the selection of a miscon-ception response schema.Second, ROMPER uses the highlighting from object per-spective to instantiate the selected response schema.
It at-tempts to do this using only attributes deemed important bythe current perspective.5.3 Ob ject  SimilarityAs was mentioned above, the object similarity metric used byROMPER must be sensitive to context.
To date, most AI sys-tems that use object similarity use a metric that is based ondistance in the generalization hierarchy.
Such a metric is notcontext sensitive.The ROMPER system uses a similarity metric based onwork done in {Tve77\] which allows contextual information to betaken into account.
Tversky's metric, called a contrast model,is based on the common and disjoint features/propertles of theobjects involved.
Suppose we have two objects a and b whereA is the set of properties associated with object a and B is theset of properties associated with object b. Tversky's measurecan be expressed as:s(a,b) = Of(AN B) - ~f (A  - B) - f i r (B -  A)for some 0, o~, and fl > 0.In the above equation 0, a, and/3 are parameters whichalter the importance of each piece of the equation.
The functionf maps over the features and yields a salience rating for each,In essence, the contrast model states that the similarity of twoobjects is some function of their common features minus somefunction of their disjoint features.
The importance of each par-ticulax feature involved (determined by the function f) and theimportance of each piece of the equation (determined by 0, c~,and fl) may change with context.In order to use the metric, we must come up with valuesfor the functions in the equation.
Tversky suggests that the0, c~, and fl functions might be affected by the relative promi-nence of objects a and b in the discourse.
If a is relatively moreimportant, then function 0 and a should be greater than/~ re-sulting in the attributes of the more prominent object having agreater influence over the similarity assessment.
While I wouldconjecture that information about the focus of the discourse\[Gro81\], \[Sid83\], \[GJW83\] might give an indication of an ob-ject's prominence and would therefore be useful in setting thevalues of 0, ~, and /3, in this work I have assumed a value of1 for the 0, a, and /3 and have concentrated on setting the ffunction.In the ROMPER system the f function has been set us-ing the salience values returned after the knowledge base hasbeen filtered through object perspective.
Using this setting off the same two objects may be seen as very similar when theactive perspective highlights attributes that the objects have incommon and suppresses those that are disjoint between them.On the other hand, the same two objects may be seen as verydifferent when the active perspective suppresses attributes thatthey have in common and highlights those that are disjoint be-tween them.This similarity metric is used by ROMPER in decidingwhich schema to use to respond to a particular misconception.Suppose that ROMPER must respond to the misconception ~Ithought a whale was a fish" when the active perspective is the"body-characteristics ~ perspective defined above.
Recall thatthis perspective highlighted attributes like fin-bearing, have-gills, and breathe-through-lungs.
Under this perspective, at-tributes common to whales and all fish are highlighted.
Usinga Tversky-like similarity metric this highlighting causes whalesand fish to be seen as similar.
ROMPER would thus respondusing the like-super schema producing a response similar to R1.If, on the other hand, the same misconception wereencountered when the perspective was "common-people's-perception", the attributes that whales and all fish have in com-mon would not be highlighted.
Rather, attributes llke scare-people and large-aquatic-creatures shared with just a subset offish, the sharks, would be highlighted.
Under these conditions,the similarity metric would return a low similarity rating forwhales and all fish (and thus the "like-super ~ schema wouldnot be applicable), but a high similarity rating for whales andsharks.
Thus, the "like-some-super" schema would be used toproduce a response similar to R2 above.One can imagine how other perspectives might make nei-ther the "like-super" nor the ~like-some-super" schemas appli-cable, causing the "no-support" schema to be used.5.4 Choos ing  the  Act ive  Perspect iveIn order for the notion of object perspective to be truly bene-ficial, there must be a mechanism for choosing the active per-spective based on previous discourse.
While this topic is stillvery much open to investigation, some preliminary research asrevealed several factors that might influence the choice of activeperspective.Perhaps one of the most influential pieces of informationuseful in choosing a perspective is the user's current goal.
In\[MWM85\] the user's goal completely determines which perspec-tive is active.
In their work each perspective which can be takenon the domain objects is indexed by potential goals.
Thus, oncethe system has determined what the user's goal probably is, ithas also determined what perspective the user has probablytaken on the domain objects.While it is true that the user's goal is a good sourceof information to use to determine the probable perspective,102other factors may also influence this choice.
These include theattributes and objects mentioned so far in the dialogue.
Thementioned attributes are obviously thought to be importantand one would therefore xpect them to be given a fairly highsalience rating in the active perspective.
Thus, the choice ofactive perspective can be narrowed ow~ to those in which thementioned attributes appear with high salience.By the same token~ the objects mentioned so far in thedialogue can also give a clue concerning the active perspec-tive.
One would expect hat the active perspective would deemthese objects important.
Therefore the system might look forperspectives that give high salience ratings to many of the at-tributes associated with objects that have been mentioned inthe discourse.In this section I have identified several factors which in-fluence the choice of active perspective.
This choice, however,is a question which remains as an open research topic.
Stillunanswered are questions uch as: When does a perspectivechange?
How long is a perspective active?
Is there a rela-tionship between a discourse unit \[GS85\] and perspective?
Isthere any structure to the space of perspectives that would putconstraints on moving from one active perspective to another?These questions must be taken up in future research on per-spective.5.5 An ExampleIn this section an example is given which indicates howthe choice of perspective influences how a misconception maybe corrected.
Recall that in correcting a misattribution one ofthe correction schemas used by ROMPER called for a similarobject o be offered as a possible object of confusion.
A study oftranscripts reveals, however, that this schema may be instanti-ated in different ways depending on the context.
Consider thefollowing dialogue:U. I am interested in investing in some securities to use assavings instruments.
I want something short-term and Idon't have a lot of money to invest so the instrument musthave small denominations.
I am a bit concerned about thepenalties for early withdrawal.
What is the penalty on aT-bill?S.
Treasury Bills don't have a penalty.
Were you thinking ofa Money Market Certificate?In this case the money market certificate was seen asbeing similar to the treasury bill and therefore included in theresponse.
A different object might be used in a different context.Consider:U. I am interested in investing in some securities.
Safety isvery important o me, so I would probably like to getsomething from the government.
I am a bit concernedabout the penalties for early withdrawal.
What is thepenalty on a T-bill?S.
Treasury Bills don't have a penalty.
Were you thinking ofa Treasury Bond?The difference in these two responses can be explainedby different perspectives begin taken on the objects.
Supposethat our knowledge base contains the following objects and at-tributes in the financial securities domain.Money Market CertificatesMaturity: 3 monthsDenominations: $1,000Issuer: Commercial BankPenalty for Early Withdrawal: 10%Purchase Place: Commercial BankSafety: MediumTreasury BillsMaturity: 3 monthsDenominations: $1,000Issuer: US GovernmentPurchase Place: Federal ReserveSafety: HighTreasury BondMaturity: 7 yearsDenominations: $500Issuer: US GovernmentPenalty for Early Withdrawal: 20%Purchase Place: Federal ReserveSafety: HighThe following perspectives might be reasonable for the domain(here we are assuming salience values from low salience of 0 tohigh salience of 1):Savings InstrumentsMaturity - 1.0denominations - 1.0safety - 0.5Issuing Companyissuer - 1.0safety - 1.0purchase-place - 0.5Notice that the perspective of Savings Instruments highlights'maturity and denominations, and somewhat highlights afety.This indicates that when people are discussing securities as sav-ings instruments, they are most interested in how long theirmoney will be tied up and in what denominations they cansave their money.
The perspective of Issuing Company, on theother hand, highlights different attributes.
When securities arediscussed from this perspective, things like who the company isand how stable an investment in the company is, become im-portant.
Other attributes of the securities are ignored (recallthat attributes not mentioned in the perspective get assigned alow salience rating).103?
IConsider how perspective might effect he misconceptionresponse.
Given the discourse preceding the utterance contain-ing the misconception i our first dialogue, it is reasonable toassume that the perspective of "Savings Instruments" is theactive perspective at the time of the misconception utterance.
3A system attempting to respond to this misconception mightproceed by attempting to instantiate the wrong object schemadescribed above.
Recall that this schema is applicable whenthere is a similar object which has the property involved in themisconception.
The system might collect all objects which havethe attribute in question and then test their similarity with theobject involved in the misconception.
In our knowledge basethere are two objects which have the attribute involved in themisconception: Money Market Certificates and T-Bonds.Suppose the attributes of these objects were assigned thesalience values given by the Savings Instrument perspective.Applying the Tversky metric using the salience values attachedby this perspective (and assuming a value of 1 for ~,al  and fl)we get:s (T -B i l l ,  P~4-Cert) = f (matur i ty ,  denom) - f ( sa fe ty )= 2 - .8 = 1.8 ===> high similaritys(T-Bill, T-Bond) = fCsafety) - f (maturity,  denom)= .5  -2 = -I.5 ===> low similarityWith these calculations the system would choose theMoney Market Certificate as the possible object of confusionand respond:S. Treasury Bills don't have a penalty.
Were you thinking ofa Money Market Certificate?Contrast the above calculations with calculations thatmight occur given a different active perspective.
The discoursepreceding the misconception utterance in the second examplesuggests the active perspective of "Issuing Company".
Usingthe salience values attached by this perspective the similaritymetric would produce the following calculations:sCT-Bill, ~ Cert)= f()  - f ( i ssuer ,  sa fe ty ,  purchase)= 0 - 2.5 = -2.5 ===> low similaritys(T-B i l l ,  T-Bond)= f ( i ssuer ,  sa fety ,  purchase) - fO-- 2.5 - 0 = 2.5 ===> high similarityin this case a reasonable response by the system would be:S. Treasury Bills don't have a penalty.
Were you thinking ofa Treasury Bond?As the examples show, changes in the active perspectivecan account for the same misconception begin responded to intwo different ways.SROMPER does not calculate the active perspective.
Instead, it is inputto the system.6 ConclusionIf we want our natural-language front-ends to databaseor expert systems to mimic human behavior, they must havethe ability to handle misconceptions.
This paper has describeda methodology for handling object-related misconceptions andhas illustrated this methodology on misconceptions involvingobject misclassificatlons.The proposed method for responding to object-relatedmisconceptions requires associating response schemas with cer-tain structural configurations of the user model.
The responseschemas described in this paper were derived from a corpus oftranscripts and were associated with user model configurationsthat would explain their use by a human expert in respondingto a misconception.A system might use the pairing of strategies to configu-rations upon encountering an object-related misconception bysearching the user model for one of the identified configurations.If one was found, the associated schema could be instantiatedto generate a corrective response.The context-dependent nature of responses to miscon-ceptions is accounted for not by having the pracess of correct-ing misconceptions change with context, but rather by havingwhat the process tnorks on change with context.
A new notionof object perspective was introduced as an augmentation to aflat semantic network representation of the user.
Object per-spective provides a highlighting of the user model as a result ofprevious discourse.
This resulting user model was shown suffi-cient for accounting for different responses being given to thesame misconception i different situations.7 AcknowledgementsI would like to thank my advisors, Aravind Joshi andBonnie Webber, for their many helpful comments throughoutthe course of this work.
Special thanks also go to Sandra Car-berry and Martha Pollack for their comments on various draftsof this paper.References\[BB78\]\[Bw77\]\[GJWS3\]J.S.
Brown and R.R.
Burton.
Diagnostic models forprocedural bugs in basic mathematical skills.
Cog-nitive Science, 2(2):155-192, 1978.D.
G. Bobrow and T. Winograd.
An overview ofkrl, a knowledge representation language.
CognitiveScience, 1(1):3-46, January 1977.B.
Grosz, A.K.
Joshi, and S. Weinstein.
Providinga uniEecl account of definite noun phrases in dis-course.
In Proceedings of the ~1~ A .
.
.a l  Meeting,pages 44-50, Association for Computational Lin-gnistics, Cambridge, Mass, June 1983.104\[0ro77\]\[Gro81\]{GSSS\]\[Kar85\]\[Man84\]fMcC85\]\[McD80\]\[McKS2\]\[MT83\]\[MWM851(scsq\[Sid83\]\[Tve77\]B. Grosz.
The Representation a d Use of Focus inDialogue Underatanding.
Technical Report 151, SRIInternational, Menlo Park Ca., 1977.B.
Grosz.
Focusing and description i  natural an-guage dialogues.
In B. Webber A. Joshi and I.Sag, editors, Element8 of Discourse Understanding,pages 85--105, Cambridge University Press, Cam-bridge, England, 1981.B.
Grosz and C. Sidner.
Discourse structure and theproper treatment of interruptions.
In Proceedings ofthe 1985 Joint Conference on Artificail Intelligence,IJCAI85, Los Angeles, Ca., August 1985.Robin Karlin.
Romper Mumbles.
Technical Report,University of Pennsylvania, May 1985.W.
C. Mann.
Discourse structures for text gener-ation.
In Proceedings of ColingS~, pages 367-375,Association for Computational Linguistics, StanfordUniversity, Ca., July 1984.K.F.
McCoy.
Correcting Object-Related Mioconcep-tions.
PhD thesis, University of Pennsylvania, De-cember 1985.D.
D. McDonald.
Natural Language Production as aProcess of Decision Making Under Constraint.
PhDthesis, MIT, 1980.K.
McKeown.
Generating Natural Language Teztin Response to ~estions About Database Structure.PhD thesis, University of Pennsylvania, May 1982.W.
C. Mann and S. A. Thompson.
Rela-tional Propositions in Discourse.
Technical Re-port ISI/RR-83-115, ISI/USC, November 1983.K.
McKeown, M. Wish, and K. Matthews.
Tailor-ing explanations for the user.
In Proceedings of the1985 Conference, Int'l Joint Conference on ArtificialIntelligence, Los Angeles CA, August 1985.A.L.
Stevens and A. Collins.
Multiple conceptualmodels of a complex system.
In Pat-Anthony Fed-erico Richard E. Snow and William E. Mon-tague, editors, Aptitude, Learning, and Instruction,pages 177-197, Erlbaum, Hillsdale, N.J., 1980.C.
L. Sidner.
Focusing in the comprehension fdefinite anaphora.
In Michael Brady and RobertBerwlck, editors, Computational Models of Din-course, pages 267-330, MIT Press, Cambridge, Ma,1983.A.
Tversky.
Features of similarity.
PsychologicalRe~iew, 84:327-352, 1977.
{TWF*82\] F. Tou, M. Williams, R. Fikes, A. Henderson, and T.Malone.
Rabbit: an intelligent database assistant.In Proceedings of AAAI-8~, pages 314-317, AAAI,Carnegie-Mellon University, August 1982.\[Woo84\] Beverly P. Wooff.
Conte~t Dependent Planning ina Machine Tutor.
PhD thesis, University of Mas-sachusctts, May 1984.105
