SITUATIONS AND INTERVALS 1Rebecca J. PassonneauPaoli Research Center, UNISYS Defense Systems ~P.O.Box 517Paoli, PA 19301 USAABSTRACTThe PUNDIT system processes naturallanguage descriptions of situations and the inter-vais over which they hold using an algorithm thatintegrates ~peet and ~en~e \[ogle.
It analyzes thetense and aspect of the real- verb to generaterepresentations of three types of situations--states, processes and events-- and to locate thesituations with respect to the time at which thetext was produced.
Each situation type has a dis-tinct temporal structure, represented in terms ofone or more intervals.
Further, every interval hastwo features whose different values capture theaspectual differences between the three differentsituation types.
Capturing these differences makesit possible to represent very precisely the times forwhich predications are asserted to hold.1.
In t roduet lonThis paper describes a semantics of situa-tions and the intervals over which they holdthat is neither situation semantics (Barwise andPerry, 1983) nor interval semantics (Dowty, 1979,1982, 1986; Taylor, 1977).
It is unfortunatelyd~f~cult to avoid the overlap in terminologybecause what will be described here shares certaingoals and assumptions with each.
The concernsaddressed here, however, arise from the computa-tional task of processing references to situations innatural language text in order to represent whatpredicates are asserted to hold over what entitiesand when.S i tuat ion as used here pertains to thelinguistic means for referring to things in theworld, i.e., to sentences or predications.
Morespecifically, s i tuat ion is the superordinatecategory in Mourelatos' typology of aspectua lclasses of predications, chematised in Fig.
1.SITUATIONSII ISTATES OCCURRENCESPreu .
re .
low.
II IPROCESSES EVENTSAlarm iJ Jounding.
Engine/ailed.Fig.
1: Mourelatos' typology of situationsThe PUNDIT text-processing system s processesreferences to situations using an algorithm thatintegrates tense logic (Reichenbach, 1947) withaspect, or what Talmy (1985) calls the~pa~e~w-~ ~ -~d~tribution o~ ac~io, throug~ time.
This paperdescribes how PUNDIT represents the temporalstructure of three types of situations, namelystates, processes and events, and how thesesituations are located in time.2.
Prob lems in Comput ing  Appropr iateRepresentat ionsThe critical problems in the semanticanalysis of references to situations and theirassociated times are: I) language encodesseveral different kinds of temporal information, 2)this information is distributed in many distinctlinguistic elements, and finany, 3) the semanticcontribution of many of these elements iscontext-dependent and cannot be computedwithout looking at co-occurring elements.ZThis work was supported by DARPA under contractN00014-85-C-0012, administered by the Office of NavalResearch.
APPROVED FOR PUBLIC RELEASE, DISTR/BU-TION UNLIMITED.ZFormerly SDC--A Burroughs Company.zPUNDIT is an acronym for Prolog UNderstands and In-teErates Text.
It is a modular system, implemented inQuintus Prolog, with distinct syntactic, semantic and prag-matic components (cf.
Dahl et al, 1987).16These problems have been addressed as fol-lows.
A decision was made to focus on the kindsof temporal information embodied in the verb andits categories of tense, taxis 4 and grammaticalaspect, s and to temporarily ignore other kinds oftemporal information, s Computation of this infor-mation was then divided into two relativelyindependent tasks, with appropriate informationpassed between the modules performlng thesetasks in order to accommodate context-dependencies.
The first task, carried out byModule 1, makes use of the aspectual informationin the verb phrase (lexical and grammaticalaspect) to determine the situation type beingreferred to and its temporal structure.
An abstractcomponent of temporal structure, referred to asthe event t ime (following Reichenbach, 1947),serves as input to Module 2, where the deicticinformation in the verb phrase (tense and taxis) isused to compute temporal ordering relations, i.e.,where the situation is located with respect o thetime of text production.
Section ?3 outlines thegeneral goals for computing temporal structureand ?4 describes in detail how it is computed.Then ?5 briefly illustrates how the event t imewhich Module 1 passes to Module 2 simplifies theinteraction of tense and aspect.8.
Goals i~or Represent ing SituationsThe goal in generating representations of thetemporal structure of situations was to closelylink the times at which situations are said to holdwith the iexlcal decompositions of the predicatesused in referring to them.
The decompositionsencode aspectual information about the situationtypes which is used in determlning what type ofsituation has been referred to and what its tem-poral structure is.
Distinct components of thesemantic decompositions correspond to differentfeatures of the intervals with which they are asso-ciated.
As ?4 will demonstrate, the interpretationof these components of temporal meaning dependson the interaction between iexical and grammati-cal aspect.4T4~'i# (Jakobson.
1957) refers to the semantic effect ofthe presence orabsence ofthe perfect auxiliary.SAzpect is both part of the inherent meaning ofa verb(lexical aspect) and also signalled by the presence or absenceof the progressive suffix -lag (grammatical aspect).~E.g., rate (~ven by adverbs like rapidJy), "patterns offrequency orhabituation", and so on (of.
Mourelatos.
1981).This approach to the compositional seman-tics of temporal reference is similar in spirit tointerval semantics.
Interval semantics capturesthe distinct temporal properties of situations byspecifying a truth conditional relation betweena full sentence and a unique interval (Dowty,1979, 1986).
This is motivated by the observa-tion that the aspectual type of a sentencedepends imultaneously on the aspectual class ofa particular lexical item, its tense, taxis andgrammatical aspect, and the nature of its argu-ments (cf.
Mourelatos, 1981; note that thelatter factor is not handled here).The goal of PUNDIT's temporal analysis isnot simply to sort references to situations intostates, processes and events, but more specificallyto represent he differences between the threetypes of situations b~ considering in detail thee\]~aracteris~ice o/ ~he set o/ temporal ~nter~z~# t\]~Qt~,sl/ hold or occur oesr (Allen, 1983, p. 132).
Thus,instead of specifying truth conditional propertiesof sentences, the temporal semantics outlined herespecifies what property of an interval is entailedby what portion of the input sentence, and thencompositionally constructs a detailed representa-tion of a state, proeess or event from the inter-vais and their associated properties.8.1.
Intervals and Their  FeaturesEach situation type has a distinct temporalstructure comprised of the interval or intervalsover which it holds.
Two features are associatedwith each interval, klnesle and boundedness.Very briefly, kinesls pertains to the internalstructure of an interval, or in informal terms,whether something is happening within the inter-val.
Boundedness pertains to the way in whichan interval is located in time with respect o othertimes, e.g., whether it is bounded by another inter-val.4.
Par t  One of the Algorithms Comput ingTempora l  St ructureThe input used to compute the temporalstructure of a situation consists of the grammati-cal aspect of the verb, that is, whether it is pro-gressive, and the decomposition produced byPUNDIT's semantic interpreter (Palmer et al,1986).
The lexical decompositions employed byPUNDIT (Passonneau, 1986\])) not only representthe predlcate/argument structure of verbs, but inaddition, following the example of Dowty's aspect17calculus (1979), they represent a verb's inherenttemporal properties, or lexlcal aspect.
7 InPUNDIT's lexical entries, there are three values oflexlcal aspect corresponding to the three types ofsituations.
Four of the six possible combinationsof grammatical nd lexical aspect are temporallydistinct.
This section will go through the fourcases one by one.4.1.
StatesThe following conditional statement sum-marises the first of four cases of temporal struc-ture.
The antecedent specifies the necessary inputcondition, the first clause of the consequentspecifies the s i tuat ion type,  the second specifiesthe k|nesls Of its associated interval and the thirdspecifies its boundedness.IF Lexical Aspect=stativeTHEN Situation is a stateAND its Time Argument is a periodAND this period is unboundedAs shown here, if the lexical aspect of a predica-tion is stat ive,  its grammatical aspect isirrelevant.
The justification for ignoring grammat-ical aspect in the context of lexical stativityappears at the end of this section.A s tate  is defined as a situation which holdsfor some interval that is both stat le andunbounded.
Example 1) illustrates a typicalreference to a state situation along with itssemantic decomposition.
Note that the lexlcalhead of the verb phrase is the adjective low.1) The pressure was low.low (patlent(\[pressurel\])  sAs in Dowty's aspect calculus (1979), the decompo-sitions of stative predicates consist of semanticpredicates with no aspectual operators or connec-tives.
Computing the temporal structure associ-ated with 1) means finding a single interval withthe appropriate features of kinesis and bounded-ness to associate with the stative predicatelow(patlent(X)).rThe literature on upectual classes of verbs provides avariety of diagnostics for determining the inherent upect ofverbs (cf.
Vendler, 1967; Dowty, 1979).
*PUNDIT's current application is to process hortmessages texts called CASREPS (CASualty REPorts) whichdescribe Navy equipment failures.
The arguments in thedecompositions, e.g., \[preuurel\], are unique identifiers oftheentities denoted by the surface noun phrues.
They are crest-Kinesls of  states.
A stat ic  interval is tem-porally homogeneous.
With respect o the relevantpredication, there is no change within the interval;consequently, any subinterval is equivalent to anyother subinterval.
Thus, a stat ic  interval isdefined much as stative predications are defined ininterval semantics:An inter~al I associated with some predication ~b 18static iff it follows from the truth of ~ at I that ~ istrue at all aublnter,Jal8 of I (cf.
Dowty, 1986, p. 42).Situations are represented as predicates identify-ing the situation type (e.g., state).
The situationdenoted by 1) would be represented as follows:state(\[ lowl\],low (pat ient (\[pressureT\]),period (\[Iowl\])The three arguments are: the unique identifier ofthe situation (e.g., \[lowl\]), the semantic decompo-sition, and the time argument (e.g., period(\[lowl\])).
The same symbol (e.g.,\[lowl\]) identifiesboth the situation and its time argument becauseit is the actual time for which a situation holdswhich uniquely identifies it.
0 A period time argu-ment in the context of a s tate  predicate alwaysrepresents a stat ie  interval.Boundedness of  states.
The intervals asso-ciated with states are inherently unbounded.
Atemporal bound can be provided by an appropri-ate temporal adverbial (e.g., The pressure wag ~or-real lwh~ the pump seize~), 10 but here we consideronly the temporal semantics pecified by the verbform itself.
When an unbounded interval islocated with respect o a particular point in time,it is assumed to extend indefinitely in both direc-tions around that time.
In 1), at least part of theinterval for which the predicationlow(pat|ent(\[pressurel\]))  is asserted to hold islocated in the past.
However, this interval may ormay not end prior to the present.
The unboundedproperty of the interval can be illustrated moreprecisely by examining the relationship betweenthe predication and the temporal adverbialed by PUNDIT's reference r solution component (Dahl, 1986).SThough a situation issomething quite different for Bar-wise and Perry (1983), they take n similar view of the role of aparticular space-time location in tokenising a situation type(of.
esp.
pp.
51ff).Xlln general, temporal dverbials can modify an existingcomponent of temporal structure or add components of tem-poral structure.18modifying it in example 2):2) The pressure was low at 08:00.This sentence asserts that the state oflow(patient(\[pressvwel\])) holds at 08:00 andpossibly prior and subsequent to 08:00.
That is,the sentence would be true if the pressure werelow for only an instant coincident with 08:00, butit is not asserted to hold only for that instant.This is captured by defining the interval asunbounded.A situation representation does not itselfindicate the boundedness of its period timeargument.
Instead, this feature is passed as aparameter to the component which interpretstense and taxis (cf.
?5).As will be shown in the following section, theprogressive assigns the features active andunbounded to non-stative verbs.
But with sta-tire verbs, the progressive contributes no temporalinformation.
Inability to occur with the progres-sive has in fact been cited as a diagnostic test ofstatives, but as Dowry notes (1979), there is aclass of progressives which denotes locative states(e.g., The soei~ are l~/ing under the bed).
Such sta-tires occur in PUNDIT's current applicationdomain in examples like the following sentencefragment:3) Material clogging strainer.A complete discussion of the interaction betweenprogressive grammatical spect and stative lexicalaspect would have to address cases in which theprogressive contributes non-temporal information(cf.
Smith, 1983).
However, these issues are notpertinent o the computation of temporal struc-ture.4.2.
Tempora l ly  Unbounded ProcessesThe second case of temporal structureinvolves progressive uses of non-stative verbs, i.e.,process or transition event verbs.IF Lexical Aspect~stativeAND Grammatical Aspect--progressiveTHEN Situation is a processAND its Time Argument is a periodAND this period is unboundedIn this case and the two subsequent ones, both lex-ical and grammatical spect are relevant input.Processes are situations which hold overactive intervals of time.
11 Active intervals can beunbounded or zmApecifled for boundedness,depending on the grammatical spect of the predi-cation.
The two possible temporal structures asso-ciated with processes are discussed in this and thefollowing section.Example 4) illustrates a typical predicationdenoting a tempora l ly  unbounded processalong with its semantic decomposition.4) The alarm was sounding.DO(sound(actor(lal m4\])))DO is an aspectual operator identifying a decom-position as a process predicate (cf.
Dowty, 1979).
12As with statives, computing the temporal struc-ture for sentences llke 4) involves finding a singleinterval to associate with the semantic decomposi-tion.Kinesls of  processes.
The presence of a DOoperator in a decomposition indicates that theinterval for which it holds must be active.
Activeand stat ic  intervals contrast in that changeoccurs within an active interval with respect othe relevant predication.
For example, for anyinterval for which DO(sound(actor(\[alarm4\])))is true, the \[alarm4\] participant must undergochanges that qualify as sounding, and must con-tinue to do so throughout the interval.
As Moure~latos (1981) has pointed out, process predicatesvary regarding how narrowly one can subdividesuch intervals and still recognize the same process.Dowty has used this threshold of granularity asthe defining characteristic of process sentences,and it is borrowed here to define active intervals:An interval \[ a~sociated with some predication ~ isaetlve iff it follows from the truth of ~b at I that ~ istrue at all subintervals of I down to a certain limitin size.As the process representation for 4) illustrates,processes and states are represented similarly.process(\[soundS\],low (patlent(\[alarmT\]),period (\[soundS\])l i the  distinction between stat ic  and active intervals isuseful for interpreting manner adverbials indicating rate ofchange.
Since statics predications denote the absence ofchange over time, they cannot be modified by rate adverbiak.lZBecause the aspectual operator DO always hu  an ac-to r  semantic role a~ociated with it, PUNDIT's semanticdecompositions actually omit DO and use the presence of theactor  role to identify proce~ predicates.19The situation predicate identifies the situationtype as a process.
Note that a period timeargument in the context of a process predicateindicates an act | re  interval.The rule given above specifies that transl-t lon event verbs in the progressive also denotetemporally unbounded processes (cf.
5).5) The engineer is installing the oU filter.cause(DO (|nstal l(agent(\[englneer 8\]))),BECOME(ins lled(theme(\[mter4\]),Iocatlon(X))))The cause predicate in the decomposition ofin~tall indicates that it is a causative verb, andthe BECOME operator that its lexical aspect ist rans i t ion  event.
This aspectual class is a hetero-geneous one, but in general, t rans i t ion  eventverbs are temporally more complex than stative orprocess verbs, and have a correspondingly morecomplex relation between their semantic decompo-sitions and temporal structure.
Consequently, thediscussion of the treatment of progressive transi-t ion event verbs is postponed until after the func-tion of the aspectual operator BECOME has beenexplained.Boundedness.
In 6), the interval associatedwith the alarm sounding is unbounded.
It bearsthe same relationship to the at adverbial phrasemodifying the predication as does the stat lc  inter-val in 2) above, repeated here as 7).6) The alarm was sounding at 08:00.7) The pressure was low at 08:00.This siml\]arity between statives and progressiveshas led Vlach (1981) to identify them with eachother.
Here, the commonality among sentences like1), 2), 4) and 8) is captured by associating thefeature value unbounded both with stative lexi-cal aspect and with progressive grammaticalaspect.
The differences between the predicationsin 6) and 7), which show up in the types ofmodification and anaphorlc processes to whichsuch predications are susceptible, are encapsulatedin their contrasting values of klnes|s (cf.
fn.
11above).4.8.
Tempora l ly  Unspecified ProcessesThe third case of temporal structureaccounts for the differences between sentences like4), having a process verb in the progressive, and8), where the process verb is non-progressive.8) The alarm sounded.The differences, which will be explained below, arecaptured in the following rule indicating that theactlve interval for which the predication is said tohold is unspecified for boundedness.IF Lexical Aspect=processAND Grammatical Aspect=non-progressiveTHEN Situation is a processAND its Time Argument is a periodAND this period is unmpeeifledAgain, the parameter indicating that the intervalassociated with 8) is unspecified gets passed toModule 2 which interprets tense and taxis.
Inevery other respect, the analysis of the temporalstructure associated with 8) resembles that for 4).A comparison of progressive and non-progressive process verbs in the context of an atadverbial phrase illustrates the relative indeter-rninacy of the non-progressive use.
In the contextof the progressive process verb in 8), the clocktime is interpreted as falling within the activeinterval of sounding but in 9), where the verb isnot progressive, 08:00 can be interpreted as fallingat the inception of the process or as roughly Iocat-ing the entire process.9) The alarm sounded at 08:00.Non-progresslve process verbs exhibit a wide vari-ation with respect o what part of the temporalstructure is located by tense (Passonneau, 1986a).The influencing factors seem to be pragmatic innature, rather than semantic.
The solution takenhere is to characterize the event t lme of suchpredications as having an unnpecifled relation tothe active interval associated with the denotedprocess.4.4.
Trans i t ion  EventsAs mentioned in the previous section, thetemporal structure of t rans i t ion  events is morecomplex than that of states or processes.Correspondingly, the rule which applies to thiscase has more output conditions.IF Lexical Aspect=transition eventA.ND Grammatical Aspect=non-progressiveTHEN Situatlon=eventAND Time Argument---momentAND this moment culminates an intervalassociated with a processAND this moment introduces an intervalassociated with a state or process20A t rans l t lon  event  is a complex situation consist-ing of a process which cu\]mlnates in a transitionto a new s tate  or proeess.
Its temporal structureis thus an aet lve interval followed by--andbounded by--a new aet |ve or s tat |e  interval.The new state or process comes into being as aresult of the initial process, isAs in Dowty (1986), both Vendler's achieve-ments and his accomplishments collapse into oneclass, vie., tr~n_Aitlon events.
That is, achieve-mentsare those ~'nesi8 predicates which are not only typi-eally of shorter duration than accomplishments, butaJso thoee which toe do not normally understand o.8entailing a sequence o/ sub-events, given or e, eaJevery-dal/ criterla for identifying the even~named by the predicate (Dowty, 1988, p. 43).Causative verbs, in which the action of one parti-cipant results in a change in another participant,are typical accomplishment verbs.10) The pump sheared the drive shaft.eause(D O(shear (agent (|pumpS|))) ,BEC OME(sheared(patlent(\[shai~e\]))))Sentence 10) asserts that a process in which thepump participated (shear/ng) caused a change inthe drive shaft (being sheared).
Note that thedecomposition explicitly indicates a causal relationbetween two conjoined predicates, one represent-ing an activity perfomed by an agent, and theother representing the resulting situation.BECOME serves as the aspectual operator formarking t rans l t lon  event  decompositions.
Theargument o BECOME constitutes the semanticdecomposition of the new state or process arisingat the culmination of the event.Non-causative verbs can also denote transi -t ion events.
With inchoatives, the same entityparticipates in both the initial process and theresulting situation denoted by the predication.11) The engine failed.D O (fall (agent(\[englnel\]))) ,BE COME (fai led(patlent(\[englnel\])))In 11), an engine is said to participate in someprocess ~ailing) which culminates in a new state(e.g., being inoperative).
The semanticISA state may be a necessary precondition for a certainchange to occur, but since states are defined by the absence ofchange, or negative klnesla, they are inherently incapable ofgenerating ew situations.decompositions u ed in PUNDIT do not explicitlyrepresent the initial processes involved in transi-tion events because they are completely predict-able from the presence of the BECOME operator.But both conjuncts are shown here to illustratethat computing the temporal structure of a transi-tion event situation requires finding two intervals,one associated with the initial process predicate(e.g., DO(fa| l (agent( \ [eng|nel \ ] ) ) ) )  and the otherwith the predicate for the resulting situation (e.g.,fa l led(pat|ent( \ [eng|nel \ ] ) ) ) .As indicated in the rule for this case, thetemporal structure also includes a moment  oftransition between the two intervals, i.e., its tran-sltion bound.
Since a t rans | t |on  event  is onewhich results in a new situation, there is in theorya point in time before which the new situationdoes not exist and subsequent to which it does.
Atransition bound is a theoretical construct notintended to correspond to an empirlcal\]y deter-mined time.
In fact, it should be thought of as thesame kind of boundary between intervals impliedby Alien's meets  relation (Allen, 1983; 1984, esp.p.
128).
However, it is a convenient abstraction forrepresenting how t rans i t ion  events  are perceivedand talked about.We can now return to the question of theinterpretation of progressive transition eventverbs.
In the context of a decomposition with aBECOME operator, the progressive is con-strained to apply to the predicate correspondingto the initial process, i.e., the predicate denotingthe portion of a t rans i t ion  event  prior to themoment of transition.
Computing the temporalstructure for the progressive of install in 12), forexample, involves generating a single active,unbounded interval for which the predicationD O (agent (|engineer 8\])) holds:12) The engineer is installing the oll filter.eause(D O(agent( |engineer 8\]),BECOME(irmtal led(theme(\[ f l l ter4\]) ,Ioeatlon(X)))))In this context, the remainder of the semanticdecomposition denotes what the person report.ingon the event assumes to be the eventual culmina-tion of the process referred to as inetalilng.K|nesls.
Examples 13) and 14) illustrate twotypes of t rans i t ion  events,  one resulting in a newstate,  and one resulting in a new process.
As illus-21trated, ~4 transition events are represented as com-plex situations in which an event  with a momenttime argument results in a new state  or process:13) The lube oil pump has seized.event(\[seisel\] ,BECOME(se lsed(pat lent ( \ [pnmpl \ ] ) ) ) ,moment(\[selsel\])stat (\[selse \],seised(pat lent  (\[plm~pl\])),period(\[seise2 Ds tar ts (moment  (\[selsel\]),perlod(\[seise2\])14) The engine started.event(\[sta~tl \]rBEC OME (operat ing(actor  (\[engineX\]))),moment( \ [s taxt l \ ] )process(\[startS\] ,opel"atlng(actor (\[eng|nel\])),period(\[start2\])s tar ts (moment( \ [s tar t l \ ] ) ,per lod( \ [s tar t2 \ ] )The s tar ts  relation indicates that a transitionbound (e.g., moment(\ [selsel \ ] ) )  is the onset of theinterval (e.g., perlod(\[selse2D) associated withthe situation resulting from a tran~it lon event.Boundedness.
An important role played bythe t rans i t ion bound is that it serves as the tem-poral component of t rans i t ion events for locat-ing them with respect o other times.
For example,the sentence in 15) asserts that the moment oftransition to the new situation coincides with theclock time of 8:00.15) The engine failed at 8:00.The status of the engine prior to 8:00 is assertedto be different from its status afterwards.5.
Par t  Two of  the AlgorithmsTempora l  Order ing Relat ionsPUNDIT employs a Reichenbachian analysisof tense which temporally locates situations interms of three abstract times: the time of thesituation (event alms), the time of speech/textproduction (speech time), and the time withxtAt present, PUNDIT explicitly represents only twocomponents of t rans i t ion  event  predications: the moment at-sociated with an event of becoming, and a period associatedwith a resulting situation.
This representation has been foundto be adequate for the current application.
The omission ofthe first interval is purely a matter of practical convenience,but could easily be reprelented should the need arise.respect to which relational adverbials are inter-preted (reference time).
Reichenbach (1947) didnot distinguish between the temporal structure ofa situation and its event  t lme.
In PUNDIT,event  t ime is a carefully defined abstract com-ponent of temporal structure in terms of whichordering relations are specified.
It is determinedon the basis of boundedness,  and is alwaysrepresented as a dimensionless moment .5.1.
Event  T imeThe three values of boundedness outlinedabove correspond to three possible relations ofevent  t ime to a time argument.
Examples 16)through 18) illustrate these relations.
If an inter-val is unbounded,  its event  t ime is representedas an arbitrary moment iz~lmled within theper iod time argument:16) The pressure is low.Boundedness: unboundedEvent time: ~/1 such that|ncludes(period(~owl\])jnoment(~VIl\]))For an interval unspecified for boundedness theevent time /ms a non-committal relation to theinterval, i.e., it may be an endpoint of or includedwithin the per iod time argument:17) The alarm sounded.Boundedness: unspecif iedEvent time: M l such thathas(period(\[soundl\]),moment (~vfs\]))The moment  time argument of a transition eventis id~e=~/~/to i s event  t ime.
Identity, or the lackof referential distinctness, is handled through Pro-log unification.18) The engine failed.Boundedness: t rans i t ion houndEvent time: M l unifies withmoment(\[fail1\])Defining these three different relations of eventtime to temporal structure simplifies the computa-tion of the ordering relations given by the perfectand non-perfect tenses.5.2.
Tempora l  Order ing RelatlonBThe event  t ime computed in Module 1 andthe verb's tense and taxis comprise the input usedin computing temporal ordering relations.
Due tothe pragmatic omplexity of the perfect tenses and22to space \]~m~tatlons, either referenee t ime nortaxis is discussed here (but cf.
Passonneau, 1986a).The rules for the past and present enses are quitesimple.
They locate the event t ime as coincidentwith or prior to the time of text production (i.e.,the Report  Time):IF Tense=presentAND Taxis/non-perfectTHEN coincide(Event Time, Report Time)IF Tense=pastAND Taxis/non-perfectTHEN precedes(Event Time, Report Time)These two rules in combination with the differentrelations of event t ime to the temporal structuresof situations makes it possible to capture impor-tant facts about the interaction of tense andaspect.
For example, present tense denotes anactual time only when applied to unboundedintervals.
Thus a reference to an actual situationis computed for sentences like 19) hut not 20).19) The engine is failing.20) The engine fails.In 20), the present ense pertains not to a specificevent of engine failure, but rather to the ten-dency for this type of situation to recur.A predication denoting a past unboundedsituation can be followed by a predication assert-ing the continuation or cessation of the samesituation:21) The pump was operating at 08.~0 and is stilloperating.A single interval would be generated for the twoclauses in 21).
However, a similar assertion follow-ing a predication with a t rans i t ion event verb inthe simple past is contradictory if still is inter-preted as indicating persistence of the sameevent.
Is22) ?The pump sheared the drive shaft and isstill shearing it.The event time for the first conjunct in 22) is amoment  necessarily culminating in a new situa-tion (i.e., a state of being sheared).
Since thetransition bound is dimensionless, the adverb stillcannot refer to its persistence.
A predicationevoking an unspecified interval  in a similarISAnother reading of 22) refers to a uniqe vent followedby iterations ofthe same type of event.context can be interpreted analogously to either21) or 22):23) The pump operated at 08.~0 and is stilloperating.The non-commlttal relation of event t ime to tem-poral structure for unspecified intervals makesboth interpretations of 23) possible, and selectingamong them is undoubtedly a pragmatic taskrather than a semantic one.
As we will see next,the utility of distinguishing between unboundedand lm~peeifled process predications i especiallyapparent in the context of temporal adverbials.6.
Coneluslom Adverbial  Modif icat ionThe representations described above wereinspired by remarks found in the literature ontense and aspect to the effect that the time sche-mata (Vendler, 1967) associated with differentsituations are crucial to the way we perceive andtalk about them.
One of the crucial types of evi-dence used in deriving PUNDIT's temporal seman-tics as the interpretation of temporal adverbials indifferent contexts (Passonneau, 1988a).
Conse-quently, one of the advantages to the representa-tions is that they make it possible to tailor theinterpretation of a temporal adverb to the tem-poral structure of the modified situation.For example, specifying a different relationfor the event t ime of an active interval, depend-ing on its boundedness, yields different emporalrelations between the situations described in sen-tences llke 24-26), as shown informally in theexamples.24) The pump failed when the engine was rotat-ing.transition o/failure during period of rotation25) The pump failed when the engine rotated.tran~itlon o/failure duringOR at one endpoi,~t of period o/rotation26) The engine rotated when the pump failed.Same =a ~S)Sentences like 25) and 26) are often interpretedwith the process (e.g., rotation) beginning at orafter the transition event moment (e.g., failure).PUNDIT's representations of the temporal seman-tics of predications are explicit enough yetsufficiently non-commlttal to provide suitableinput to a pragmatic reasoner that could decidethese cases.23AcknowledgementsI would like to thank Martha Palmer, LynetteHirschman, Bonnie Webber and Dehbie Dahl fortheir comments, encouragement a d patience.REFERENCESAllen, James F. 1984.
Towards a general theoryof action and time.
AI 23: 123-154.Allen, James.
F. 1983.
1V~aintaining knowledgeabout temporal intervals.
ACI~ 25.11:832-843.Barwise, Jon and John Perry.
1983.
Situations andAtt|tudes.
Cambridge, Massachusetts: The MITPress.Dahl, Deborahl.
1986.
Focusing and reference reso-lution in PUNDIT.
Presented at AA.~.
Philadel-phia, PA~Dahl, Deborah; Dowding, John; Hirschman,Lyuette; Lang, Francois; Linebarger, Marcia;Palmer, Martha; Passonneau, Rebecca; Riley,Leslie.
1987.
Integrating Syntax, Semantics,and Discourse: DARPA Natural LanguageUnderstanding Program.
Final Report May,1985--May, 1987.Dowty, David R. 1986.
The effects of aspectualclass on the temporal structure of discourse:semantics or pragmatics?
Linguistics and Philo-sophy 9: 37-61.Dowty, David R. 1979.
Word Meaning and Mon-tague Grammar.
Dordrecht: D. Reidel.Jakobson, Roman.
1971 \[1957\].
Shifters, verbalcategories and the Russian verb.
In his SelectedWritings, "v'ol.
2, pp.
130-147.
The Hague: Mou-ton.Mourelatos, Alexander P. D. 1981.
Events,processes, and states.
In Tedeschi and Zaenen,pp.
191-212.Palmer, 1Vlartha; Dahl, Deborah A.; Schiffman,Rebecca J.
~)assonneau\]; H~rschman, Lynette;Linebarger, Marcia; Dowding, John.
1986.Recovering Implicit Information.
24th AnnualMeeting of the ACL.
Columbia University, NewYork.Passonneau, Rebecca.
1986a.
A ComputationalModel of the Semantics of Tense and Aspect.Logic-Based Systems Technical Memo No.
43.Paoli Research Center.
SDC.
December, 1986.Passonneau, Rebecca.
1986b.
Designing LexicalEntries for a Limited Domain.
Logk-Based Sys-tems Technical Memo No.
42.
Paoli ResearchCenter.
SDC.
November, 1986.Reichenbach, Hans.
1947.
Elements of SymbolicLogic.
New York: The Free Press.Talmy, Leonard.
1985.
Lexicalisation patterns.
InLanguage Typology and Syntactic Description,vol.
3: Grammatkal Categories and the Lexicon,pp.
57-151.
Edited by Timothy Shopen.
Cam-bridge: Cambridge University Press.Taylor, Barry.
1977.
Tense and continuity.Linguistics and Philosophy 1.Tedeschi, P. J. and A. Zaenen, eds.
19810 Syntaxand Semantics, vol 14: Tense and Aspect.
NewYork: Academic Press.Vendler, Zeno.
1967.
Verbs and times.
Linguisticsin Philosophy.
New York: CorneU UniversityPress.
"v'lach, Frank.
1981.
The Semantics of the pro-gressive.
In Tedesch\] and Zaenen, pp.
271-292.24
