NOMINALIZATIONS IN PUNDITDeborah A. Dahl, Martha S. Palmer, Rebecca J. PassonneauPaoli Research CenterUNISYS Defense Systems 1Defense Systems, UNISYSP.O Box 517Paoli, PA  19301 USAABSTRACTThis paper describes the treatment of nomi-nalizations in the PUNDIT text processing system.A single semantic definition is used for both nomi-nalizations and the verbs to which they arerelated, with the same semantic roles, decomposi-tions, and selectional restrictions on the semanticroles.
However, because syntactically nominaliza-tions are noun phrases, the processing which pro-duces the semantic representation is different inseveral respects from that used for clauses.
(1)The rules relating the syntactic positions of theconstituents to the roles that they can fill aredifferent.
(2) The fact that nominailzations areuntensed while clauses normally are tensed meansthat an alternative treatment of time is requiredfor nomlnalizations.
(3) Because none of the argu-ments of a nominallzation is syntactically obllga-tory, some differences in the control of the fillingof roles are required, in particular, roles can befilled as part of reference resolution for the nomi-nalization.
The differences in processing are cap-tured by allowing the semantic interpreter tooperate in two different modes, one for clauses,and one for nominalizations.
Because many noml-nalizations are noun-noun compounds, thisapproach also addresses this problem, by suggest-ing a way of dealing with one relatively tractablesubset of noun-noun compounds.1Formerly SDC-A Burroughs Company.1.
Introduct ionIn this paper we will discuss the analysis ofnominalizations in the PUNDIT  text processingsystem.
2 Syntactically, nomlnalizations are nounphrases, as in examples (I)-(7).
(1) An inspection of lube oil filter revealedmetal particles.
(2) Lou of lube oll preuure occurred duringoperation.
(3) SAC received hifh ueafe.
(4) In~eeti#ation revealed adequate lube oil.
(5) Request replacement of SAC..(6) Erosion of impellor blade tip is evident.
(7) Unit has low output air pressure, resultingin ale*# gae turbine atarte.Semantically, however, nominaliTatlons resembleclauses, with a predlcate/argument structure likethat of the related verb.
Our treatment attemptsto capture these resemblances in such a way thatvery little machinery is needed to analyze nomi-nalizations other than that already in place forother noun phrases and clauses.There are two types of differences betweenthe treatment of nomlnalizatlons and that ofclauses.
There are those based on linqui~tledifferences, related to (1) the mapping betweensyntactic arguments and semantic roles, which isI The research described in this paper was supported inpart by DARPA under contract N000014-85-C-0012, admin-istered by the Office of Naval Research.
APPROVED FOR131different in nomlnalisations and clauses, and (2)tense, which nomlnallsations lack.
There are alsodifferences in control; in particular, control of thefilling of semantic roles and control of referenceresolution.
All of these issues will be discussed indetail below.2.
C lause  ana lys i sThe semantic processing to be described inthis paper is part  of the PUNDIT s system forprocessing natural  language messages.
The PUN-DIT system is a highly modular system, written inProlog, consisting of distinct syntactic, semanticand discourse components.
~-lirschman1985\],and~-lirschman1986\], describe the semantic com-ponents of PUNDIT,while ~)ah11986, Palmer1988, Passonneau1986\],describe the semantic and pragmatic omponents.The semantic domain from which these examplesare taken is that  of reports of failures of thestarting air compressors, or sac's,  used in startinggas turbines on Navy ships.The goal of semantic analysis is to producea representation of the information conveyed bythe sentence, both implicit and explicit.
Thisinvolves 1) mapping the syntactic realization ontoan underlying predicate argument representation,e.g., assigning referents of particular syntacticconsltuents to predicate arguments, and 2) mak-\]Jig implicit argument fillers expllclt.
We areusing an algorithm for semantic interpretationbased on predicate decomposition that integratesthe performance of these tasks.
The integration isdriven by the goal of filling in the predicate argu-ments of the decomposition.~almer1986\].In order to produce a semantic representa-tion of a clause, its verb is first decomposed into asemantic predicate representation appropriate forthe domain.
The arguments of the predicatesconstitute the SEMANTIC ROLES of the verb, whichare slml\]ar to cases 4For example, fall decomposesinto become inoperat lve ,  with pat ient  as itsonly semantic role.
Semantic roles can be filledeither by a syntactic constituent or by referencePUBLIC RELEASE, DISTRIBUTION UNLIMITED.s PUNDIT UNDderstands and Integrates Text4 In this domain the semantic roles include: agent, In-st igator,  experiencer, Instrument,  theme, Ioeatlon,actor, patient,  source, reference_pt and goal.
Thereare domain specific riteria for selecting a range of semanticroles.
The criteria which we have used are describedresolution from default or contextual information.We have categorized the semantic roles intothree classes, based on how they are filled Seman-tic roles such as theme,  ac tor  and pat ient  aresyntactically OBLIGATORY, and must be filled bysurface constituents.
Semantic roles are categor-ized as semantically ESSENTIAL when they must befilled even if there is no syntactic constituentavaUahle, s In this case they can be filled pragmat-ically, making use of reference resolution, asexplained below.
The default categorization isNON-ESSENTIAL, which does not require that therole be filled.
The algorithm in Figure 1 producesa semantic representation using this information.Each step in the algorithm will be il lustrated atleast once in the next section using the following(typical) CASREPS text.~a?
failed.Pump sheared.Ineestifatiort reeealed metal eontamlnationin filter.2.1 .
A S imple  ExampleDECOMPOSE VERB - The first example uses thefal l  decomposition for Sac failed:fa l l  <-beeomeP ( inoperat lveP(pat lent (P ) ) ) .It indicates that the entity filling the OBLIGA-TORY pat ient  role has or will become inopera-tive.FOR pat ient  ROLE -PROPOSE SYNTACTIC CONSTITUENTFILLER - A mapping rule indicates that  the syn-tactic subject is a likely filler for any pat ientrole.
The mapping rules make use of intuitionsabout syntactic cues for indicating semanticroles first embodied in the notion of case~lllmore1968,Palmer1981\].
The mapping rulescan take advantage of general syntactic cues like"SUBJECT goes to PATIENT" while still indicat-ing particular context sensitivities.
(See ~al -mer1985\] for details.
)in{Paseonneau198611s We are in the process of defining criteria for categoriz-ing a role as ~SSeNTIAL.
It is clearly very domain dependent.132CALL REFERENCE RESOLUTION - See is thesubject of ma?
failed, and is suggested by themapping rule as a 1Lkely filler of the pat ient  role.At this point the semantic interpreter asks nounphrase analysis to provide a unique referent forthe noun phrase subject.
Since no sac,  have beenmentioned previously, a new name is created:sae l .TEST SELECTION RESTRICTIONS - In addi-tion to the mapping rules that  are used to associ-ate syntactic constituents with semantic roles,there are selection restrictions associated witheach semantic role.
The selection restrictions forfail test whether or not the filler of the pat ientrole is a mechanical device.
A sac is a mechani-cal device so the subject of the sentence macfailed maps straightforwardly onto the pat ientrole, e.g.,beeomeP ( inoper  a t |veP  (pat |ent  (sac1) ) ) .Since there are no other roles to be filled thealgorithm term~-ates uccessfully at this pointand the remaining steps are not applied.
Thenext example illustrates further steps in the algo-rithm.2.2.
Unf i l l ed  Ob l igatory  Ro lesThe second utterance in the example, Psmpmheared, illustrates the effect of an unfilled obliga-tory role.DECOMPOSE VERB -shear,<-  eauseP  ( !ns t igator  (I),beeomeP(shearedP(pat lent (P ) ) ) )Sheer is an example of a verb that can be usedeither transitively or intransitively.
In both casesthe pat ient  role is filled by a mechanical devicethat becomes heared.
If the verb is used transi-tively, the ins t igator  of the shearin?, also amechanical device, is mentioned explicitly, as in,The rotating driee shaft sheared the psmp.
Ifthe verb is used intransitively, as in the currentexample, the ins t igator  is not made explicit;however, the algorithm begins by attempting tofill it in.FOR Ins t igator  ROLE - Working from left toright in the verb decomposition, the first role toand relies heavily on what can be assumed from the context.be filled is the ins t igator  role.
A mapping ruleindicates that the subject of the sentence, psmp,is a likely filler for this role.
Reference resolutionreturns pump1 as the referent of the nounphrase.
Since pump is a mechanical device, theselection restriction test passes.FOR pat ient  ROLE - There are no syntacticconstituents left, so a syntactic constituent can-not be proposed and tested.UNFILLED OBL IGATORY ROLES - Thepat lent  role, a member of the set of obligatoryroles, is still unfilled.
This causes failure, and thebinding of p , * rnp l  to the ins t igator  role isundone.
The algorithm starts over again, tryingto fill the instigator ole.FOR ins t igator  ROLE- There are no othermapping rules for ins t igator ,  and it is non-essential, so Case 4 applies and it is left unfilled, eThe algorithm tries again to fill in the patientrole.FOR pat lent  ROLE - Two mapping rules canapply to the pat ient  role, one of which suggeststhe subject, in this case, the pump, as a filler.Reference resolution returns pump1 again, whichpasses the selection restriction of being a mechan-ical device.
The final representation is:eauseP  ( ins t l  gator  ( I) ,beeomeP (shearedP  (pat lent  (pumpl ) ) ) ) .The last sentence in the text, "Inveatlga-tion re~ealed metal eontaminatlon ~n filter," isinteresting mainly because of the occurrence oftwo nomlnallzations which are discussed in detailin a separate section.2.3.
Tempora l  Ana lys i s  o f  TensedC lausesThe temporal component determines whatkind of situation a predication denotes and whattime it is asserted to hold for ~assonneau1988\].Its input is the semantic decomposition ofthe verb and its arguments, tense, an indica-tion of whether the verb was in the perfect orprogressive, and a list of unanalyzed consti-tuents which may include temporal adverbials.
Itgenerates three kinds of output: an assignment ofIIn other domains, the ins t igator  might be an ~SSZN.TLU.
role and would get filled by pragmatics.133an actual  time to the predication, if appropriate;a representation of the type of sRuation denotedby the predication as either a state, a process or atransit ion event; and finally, a set of predicatesabout the ordering of the time of the situationwith respect to other times explicitly or implicitlymentioned in the same sentence.
For the simplesentence, sac  / 'a i led,  the input would consist ofthe semantic decomposition and a past tensemarker:Deeompos l t lonsbecome ( |no  per  a t ive  (p a t lent  (is se l l  ) ))3Terb fo rms PastThe output would be a representation of atransit ional event, corresponding to the momentof becoming inoperat ive,  and a resulting statein which the sac is inoperative for some periodinitiating at the moment of transition.8.
Nomlna l l sa t lonsNominallzations are processed very slml\]arlyto clauses, but with a few crucial d~erences, bothin linguistic information accessed and in the con-trol of the algorithm.
The first important linguis-tic characterist ic of the nom;nallzation algorithmis that  the same predicate decomposition can beused as is used for the related verb.
Secondly,d~erent  mapping rules are required since syntac-tically a nominallsatlon is a noun phrase.
Forexample, where a likely filler for the pat ient  offail, is the syntactic subject, a llkely filler for thepat ient  of failure is an of pp.
Thirdly, nominal-isations do not make use of the obligatoryclassification for semantic roles, since nounphrase modifiers are not syntactical ly obligatory.In terms of d~rerences in control structure,because nom;nallzations may themselves be ana-phorlc, there are two separate role-filling stages inthe algorithm instead of just one.
The first pass isfor filling roles which are explicitly given syntacti-cally; essential roles are left unfilled.
If a uomi-nalization is being used anaphorical ly some of itsroles may have been specified or  otherwise filledwhen the event was first described.
The ana-phorlc reference to the event, the nomina\]izatlon,would automatical ly inherit all of these roleThis suggests the hypothesis that OBLIGATORY roles Forclause decompositions automatically become BSSeNTL~ rolesfor nominalization decompositions.
This hypothesis eems tohold in the current domain; however, it will have to be testedon other domains.
We are indebted to James Allen for thisobservation.fillers, as a by-product of reference resolution.After the first pass, the interpreter looks for areferent, which, if found, will unify with the noml-nal isatlon representation, sharing variable bind-ings.
This is a method of filling unfilled roles prag-matical ly that  is not currently available to clauseanalysis s. However, the first pass was importantfor filling roles with any explicit syntactic argu-ments of the nom;nalizatlon before attempt ing toresolve its reference, since there may be morethan one event in the context whkh nominallza-tion could be specifying.
For example, failure ofpump and failure of sac can only be dis-tinguished by the filler of the pat ient  role.
Afterreference resolution a second role-filling pass ismade, where still unfilled roles may be filled prag-matical ly with default values in the same waythat  unfilled verb roles can be filled.S.1.
Tempora l  Ana lys i s  o f  Nomlna l l za -t lonsAs with clauses, the temporal  analysis ofnorninallsatlons takes place after the semanticanalysis.
Also as with clauses, one of the inputsto the temporal  analysis of nomlna\]isatlons is thesemantic decomposition.
The critical d~erencebetween the two cases is that  a nom;nal isationdoes not occur with tense.
PUNDIT  compensatesby looking for relevant temporal  information inthe superordinate constituents in which the nomi-nalizatlon is embedded.
Currently, PUNDITprocesses nomlnalizatlons in three types of con?texts.The first context for which a nomlnalisationis temporal ly processed is when it occurs as theprepositional object of a temporal  connective(e.g., before, during, after) and the matr ixclause denotes an actual  situation.
For example,in the sentence sac lube oil pressure decreasedbelato 60 pslg after engagement, the temporalcomponent processes the main clause as referringto an actual  event which happened in the pastand which resulted in a new situation.
WhenPUNDIT finds the temporal  adverbial  phraseafter engagement, it assumes that  the engage-meat  also has actual  temporal  reference.
In suchcases, the nomlnal isat|on is processed using the!
Clauses can describe previously mentioned events, asdiscussed in \[Dahl1987\].
In order to handle cases like these,something analogous to reference resolution for clauses maybe required.
However a treatment of this has not yet beenimplemented in PUNDIT.134meaning of the adverb and the tense of the mainclause.The second context in which a nominallza-tion undergoes temporal  analysis is where itoccurs as the argument o a verb providing tem-poral information about situations.
Such verbsare classified as aspectual.
Occur  is such a verb,so a sentence like failure occurred would be pro-cessed very s~miIarly to a clause with the simplepast tense of the related verb, i.e., aomethlngfaile&Another type of verb whose nominallzationarguments are temporal ly processed is a verbwhich itself denotes an actual  situation that  issemantically distinct from its arguments.
Forexample, the sentence in,aestlgatlon re~ealedmetal ?onfam~natlon i~t oil filter mentions threesituations: the situation denoted by the matr ixverb reveal, and the two situations denoted by itsarguments, ineemt~gatlon a d eontamlnatlo~ Ifthe situation denoted by reveal has actual  tem-poral reference, then its arguments are presumedto as well.8.2.
Nomina l l sa t lon  Mapp ing  RulesWe will Use the previous example, ineestl-gatlon revealed metal eontamlnatlon in filter,to il lustrate the nom~nallsation analysis algo-rithm.
We will describe the eontamlnat lonexample first, since all of its roles are filled bysyntactic constituents.
The dotted llne dividesthe algorithm in Figure 2 in the Appendix into theparts that  are the same (above the line), and theparts that  differ (below the llne.
)DECOMPOSE VERB - Contaminate decomposesinto a NON-ESSENTIAL ins t rument  that  contam-inates an OBLIGATORY loeat lon .eontaminate  <-eontaminatedP  ( ins t rument  (I),l oeat lon(L ) )FOR ins t rument  role - In the example, meta l  isa noun modifier of contamination, and meta l lis selected as the filler of the ins t rument  role.FOR theme ROLE - The theme of a nominaU-nation can be syntactically realized by an of ppor an in pp.
The role is filled with f l l te r l ,  thereferent of/~l?er.At this point the temporal  component is called forthe nomlnalisation metal eontamlnatlon in ollf i l ter  with two inputs: the decomposition struc-ture and the tense of the matr ix verb, in thiscase the simple past.
Because this predicate isstative, the representation of the eontamlna-t lon  situation is a s ta te  predicate with thedecomposition and a per iod  time argument aswell as the unique identifier S, (which will beeventually be instantiated by reference resolutionas \ [eontaminate l \ ] ) :s ta te (S ,eontamlnatedP( ins t rument  (meta l l ) ,\ ]oeat lon( f i l te r l ) ) ,(per lod(S) )In this context, the past tense indicates that  atleast one moment within the period of contamina-tion precedes the time at which the report wasfiled.CALL REFERENCE RESOLUTION FOR NOlV\[I-NALLZATION - There are no previously men-tioned ?ontamlnatlon events, so a new referent,eontamlnat lon l  is created.
There are nounfilled roles, so the analysis is completed.8.3.
F i l l l ng  Essent ia l  Ro lesThe analysis of the other nominallzation,in~emtlgatlon, i l lustrates how essential roles arefilled.
The decomposition of invest igate has twosemantic roles, a NON-ESSENTIAL agent  doing theinvestigation and an OBLIGATORY theme beinginvestigated.
9invest igate<-  i nvest lgateP  (agent  (A) ~theme(T) )There are no syntactic constituents, so the map-ping stage is skipped, and reference resolution iscalled for the nominallzatlon.
There are no previ-ously mentioned investigative vents in this exam-ple 10, so a new referent, invest igat |on l  iscreated.
At this point, a second pass is made toat tempt o fill any unfilled roles.I In other domains, the theme can be essential, as in "Iheard a noise.
Let's investigate.
"I0 If the example had been, A sew ea?iseer isweetl-gate& tAe pump.
TAe isteetlgntios oeeurre~ just  beforetAe complete breakdown., a previously mentioned eventwould have been found, and the agent and theme roleswould have inherited the fillers engineer1 and pnmplfrom the reference to the previous event.135FOR agent  ROLE - The role is NON-ESSENTIAL,so Case 4 applies, and it is left unfilled.FOR theme ROLE - The selection restriction onthe theme of an ineestlgation is that  it must bea d*msged component or a dauaage causingevent.
All of the events and entities mentioned sofar, the ,ae  and the pump, the failsre of the sacand the shcar/ng of the pump satisfy this cri-teria.
In this case, the item in focus, the ,hear-ing of the pump, would be selected ~)ah11986\].The final decomposition is:invest lgateP  (agent (A) , theme(shear l ) )4.
Other  CompoundsIn addition to nom~nalisations, PUNDITdeals with three other types of noun-noun com-pounds.
One is the category of nouns with argu-ments.
These include preuure  and temperature,for example.
They are decomposed and havesemantic roles like nominalisations; however, theirtreatment is different from that of nomlualisa-tions in that  they do not undergo time analysis,since they do not describe temporal situations.
Asan example, the definition of p reuure ,p ressureP  ( theme(T) , loeat ion(L ) ) ,  specifiestheme and locat ion  as roles.
The analysis of anoun phrase like sa?
oil preuure  would fill in theloeat lon  with the sac and the theme with theoil, resulting in the final representation,p ressur  eP  ( theme(o i l l ) , l oeat lon(sae l ) ) .The syntactic mapping rules for the roles permitthe theme to be filled in by either a noun modifier,such as all in this case, or the object of an o/prepositional phrase, as in prcuure o/oi l .
Siml-larly, the mapping rules for the location allow itto be filled in by either a noun modifier or by theobject of an in prepositional phrase.
Because ofthis flexibility, the noun phrases, sac all pres-mute, all preuure  in sac, and pressure  o f  oi1in  sac ,  all receive the same analysis.The second class of compounds is that ofnouns which do not have semantic roles.
Forthese, a set of domain-specific semantic relation-ships between head nouns and noun modifiers hasbeen developed.
These include: a rea  o f  ob jec t ,for example, blade tip, mater la l - fo rm,  such asmetal partlclea; and mater |a l -ob jeet ,  such asmetal eyllnder.
These relationships are assignedby examining the semantic properties of thenouns.
The corresponding prepositional phrases,as in tip o/ blade, particle, o/ metal, andcylinder of metal, have a similar analysis.Finally, many noun-noun compounds arehandled as idioms, in cases where there is no rea-son to analyze the semantics of their internalstructure.
Idioms in the CASREPS domain include,hip, force,  gear *hair, and connecting pin.Our decision to treat  these as idioms does notimply that  we consider them unanalyzable, ornoncompositional, but rather that,  in this domain,there is no need to analyze them any further.5.
P rev ious  Computat lona l  T reatmentsPrevious computational treatments of nomi-nalizations differ in two ways from the currentapproach.
In the first place, nominallzations haveoften been treated simply as one type of noun-noun compound.
This viewpoint is adopted by~inin1980,Leonard1984,Brachman(nuli)\].
Cer-tainly many nomlnalizations contain nominalpremodifiers and hence, syntactically, are noun-noun compounds; however, this approach obscuresthe generalization that  prepositional phrasemodifiers in non-compound noun phrases oftenhave the same semantic roles with respect to thehead noun as noun modifiers.
PUNDIT's analysisis aimed at a uniform treatment of the semantics~ml\]arlty among expressions like repair ofenf lne,  enf~ne repair ,  and Csomeone) repairedenglne rather than the syntactic similarity ofengine repair, sir preuure, and metal partl-eles.
Of the analyses mentioned above,Brachman's analysis seems to be most similar toours in that it provides an explicit link from thenominalization to the related verb to relate theroles of the noun to those of the verb.
The secondway in which our approach differs from previousapproaches is that  PUNDIT's analysis is drivenby taking the semantic roles of the predicate andtrying to fill them in any way it can.
This meansthat PUNDIT knows when a role is not explicitlypresent, and consequently can call on the othermechanisms which we have described above to fillit in.
Other approaches have tended to start byfitting the explicitly mentioned arguments intothe role slots, thus they lack this flexibility.6.
L |ml ta t |onsThe current system has two main limita-tions.
First, there is no attempt to build inter-nal structure within a compound.
Each nominalmodifier is assumed to  modify the head noununless it is part of an idiom.
For this reason,136noun phrases like impel\[or blade t~p erosioncannot be handled by our system in its currentstate because impel\[or b\[a,le tip forms asemantic unit and should be analysed as a asingle argument of eroaion.
The second problemk related to the first.
The system does not nowkeep track of the relative order of nora|halmodifiers.
In this domain, this does not presentserious problems, since there are no exampleswhere a different order of modifiers would resultin a d~erent  analysis.
Generally, only one orderis acceptable, as in mac oil eo~taminatlon, ~o~\[both powerful and extenslble, and which will pro-vide a natural  basis for further development.AcknowledgementsWe would like to thank Lynette Hirschmanand Bonnie Webber for their helpful commmentson this paper.7.
Conc lus |onsIn this paper we have described a t reatmentof nom~nalisatlons ill which the goal ls to maxim-\[se the s~m~\]arities between the processing of nom-inallsatlons and that  of the clauses to whkh theyare related.
The semantic s~m~\]arltles betweennom~nallzatlons and clauses are captured by mak-ing the semantic roles, semantk  decompositions,and selectional restrictions on the roles the samefor nomlna\]isations and their related verbs.
As aresult, the same semantk  representation k con-structed for both structures.
This s~m;|arity inrepresentation i turn anows reference resolutionto find referents for nom;nallsations whkh referto events previously described in clauses.
In addl-tion, it allows the time component o integratetemporal  relationships among events and situa-tions described in clauses with those referred toby non~uaUsations.On the other hand, where d~erencesbetween nom~uaUsations and clauses have a clear\]ingulstic motivation, our t reatment provides fordifferences in processing.
PUNDIT recognizes thatthe semantic roles of non~na\]ised verbs areexpressed syntactical ly as modifiers of nounsrather than arguments of clauses by having ad~erent  set of syntactic mapping rules.
It ls alsotrue in nominallsatlons that there are no syntac-ticaUy obligatory arguments, so the analysis of anom;nallsation does not fall when there is anunfilled obligatory role, as is the case with clauses.Finally, the temporal  analysis component is ableto take into account the fact that  nomlnallzatlonsare untensed.~rh;le there are many cases not yet coveredby our system, in general, we believe this to be anapproach to processing nomlnallsatlons which is137APPENDIXDECOMPOSE VERB;FOR EACH SEMANTIC  ROLECASE I: IF THERE ARE SYNTACTIC  CONSTITUENTS -PROPOSE SYNTACTIC  CONSTITUENT FILLERCALL  REFERENCE RESOLUTION& TEST SELECTIONAL RESTRICTIONSCASE 2: IF ROLE IS OBL IGATORY AND SYNTACTICALLY  UNFILLED -FAILCASE 3: IF ROLE IS ESSENTIAL AND UNFILLED -CALL  REFERENCE RESOLUTION TO HYPOTHESIZE  A FILLER& TEST  SELECT IONAL RESTRICT IONSCASE 4: IF ROLE IS NON-ESSENTIAL  AND UNFILLED -LEAVE UNFILLEDCALL  TEMPORAL ANALYSIS ON DECOMPOSIT IONFIKure 1.
C lause AJtalysls AlKorlChmDECOMPOSE NOMINALIZATIONFOR EACH SEMANTIC  ROLE:IF THERE ARE SYNTACTIC CONSTITUENTS -PROPOSE SYNTACTIC CONSTITUENT FILLER& CALL REFERENCE RESOLUTION& TEST SELECTIONAL RESTRICTIONSCALL TEMPORAL ANALYSIS ON DECOMPOSITIONCALL REFERENCE RESOLUTION FOR NOMINALIZATION NOUN PHRASEFOR EACH SEMANTIC ROLE:IF ESSENTIAL ROLE AND UNFILLEDCALL REFERENCE RESOLUTION TO HYPOTHESIZE A FILLERTEST SELECTIONAL RESTRICTIONSELSE LEAVE UNFILLEDFJKure 2.
Nomlna l l sa~ion Ana lys is  AIKorlthm138REFERENCES~rachman(nuU)\]Ronald J. Brachman, A StructuralParadigm for RepresentingKnowledge.
In BBN Report No.
S605,Bolt Beranek & Newman, Cambridge,Massachusetts.~ah11980\]Deborah A. Dahl, Focusing and Refer-ence Resolution in PUNDIT, Presentedat AAAI, Philadelphia, PA, 1986.~ah11987\]Deborah A. DaM, Determ~-ers, Entitles,and Contexts, Presented at TInlap?3,Las Cruces, New Mexico, January 7?9,1987.~11more1968\]C. J. F;nmore, The Case for Case.
InUni, ersal, in Linguimtie Theory, E.Bach and R. T. Harms (ed.
), Holt,Rinehart, and Winston, New York,1968.~ininZO80\]Tim Finin, The Semantic Interpretationof Compound Nominals, PhD Thesis,University of Tlll,ois at Urbana-Champaign, 1980.\[I-Iirschman1985\]L. Hirschman and K. Puder, RestrictionGrammar: A Prolog Implementation.
ILo?ie Pro?ramminff and ira Applica-tion,, D~-I.D.
Warren and M.VanCaneghem (ed.
), 1985.~'lirschman1986\]L. H~rschman, Conjunction in Meta-Restriction Grammar.
d. of Loglc Pro-grumminq, 1986.~eonard1984\]Rosemary Leonard, The Interpretationof En?limh Noun Sequeneem on theComputer.
North Holland, Amsterdam,1984.\[Palmer1981\]Martha S. Palmer, A Case for RuleDriven Semantic Processing.
Proc.
o/the 19th ACL Conference, June, 1981.~almer1985\]Martha S. Palmer, Driving Semanticsfor a Limited Domain, Ph.D. thesis,University of Edinburgh, 198,5.~almer1988\]Martha S. Palmer, Deborah A. Dahl,Rebecca J.
~assonneau\] Sch~man,Lynette Hirschman, Marcia Linebarger,and John Dowding, Recovering ImplicitInformation, Presented at the 24th An-nual Meeting of the Association forComputational Linguistics, ColumbiaUniversity, New York, August 1986.~assonneau1988\]oRebecca J. Passonneau, A Computa-tional Model of the Semantics of Tenseand Aspect, Loglc-Based SystemsTechnical Memo No.
43, PaoliResearch Center, System DevelopmentCorporation, November, 1986.~assonneau198~Rebecca J. Passonneau, Designing Lexi-cal Entries for a Limited Domain,Loglc-Based Systems Technical MemoNo.
42, Paoli Research Center, SystemDevelopment Corporation, April, 1988.139
