GRAMl~IATICAL AND UNGRAMMATICAL  STRUCTURES IN USER-ADVISER DIALOGUES1EV IDENCE FOR SUFF IC IENCY OF RESTRICTED LANGUAGES IN NATURALLANGUAGE INTERFACES TO ADVISORY SYSTEMS.Raymonde GulndonAficeoelectroni~ and Computer Technology CorporationP.O.
Boz gOOlg5Austin, Te=a., 787~0guindonOmcc.com1 Kelly ShuldbergUniversity of Teza.~, Austin O/19\[CCJoyce Conner~V\[icroelectronic~ andComputer Technology CorporationABSTRACTUser-adviser dialogues were collected in a typed Wizard-of-Oz study (=man-behind-the-curtain study*).
Thirty-twousers had to solve simple statistics problems using an un-familiar statistical package.
Users received help on how touse the statistical package by typing utterances to what theybelieved was a computerized adviser.
The observed limitedset of users' grammatical and ungrammatical formsdemonstrates the sufficiency of a very restricted grammar ofEnglish for a natural language interface to an advisory sys*tem.
The users' language shares many features of spokenface-to-face language or of language generated under real-time production constraints (i.e., very simple forms ofutterances).
Yet, users also appeared to believe that thenatural language interface could not handle fragmentary orinformal language and users planned or edited their languageto be more like formal written language (i.e., very infrequentfragments and phatics).
Finally, users also appeared tobelieve in poor shared context between users and com-puterized advisers and referred to objects and events usingcomplex nominals instead of faster-to-type pronouns.INTRODUCTIONIt has been azgued that natural language interfaces withvery rich functionality are crucial to the effective use of ad-visory systems and that interfaces using formal languages,menus, or direct manipulation will not suffice (Finin, Joshi,and Webber, 1986).
Designing, developing, and debugging arich natural language interface (its parser, grammar,recovery strategies from unparsable input, etc.)
are time-consuming and labor-intensive.
Nevertheless, natural lan-guage interfaces can be quite brittle in the face of uncon*strained input from the user, as can be found in applicationssuch as user-advising.
One step toward a solution to theseproblems would be the identification of a subset of gram*matical and ungrammatical structures that correspond to thelanguage generated by users in any user-advising situations,irrespective of the domain.
This subset could be used todesign a core grammar, strategies to handle ungrammaticalinput, and some parsing heuristics portable to any naturallanguage interface to advisory systems.
This strategy wouldincrease the habitability of the natural language interface(Watt, 1968; Trawick, 1983) and reduce its developmentcost.An important feature of this restricted subset is its in-dependence from a particular domain (e.g., statistics,medicine}, making it portable.
This is in contrast withanother strategy which also capitalizes on restricted subsetsof English, the use of sublanguages.
There are naturally oc-curring subsets of English, usually associated with a par-ticular domain or trade that have been called sublanguages(Harris, 1968; Kittredge, 1982).
Sublanguages are charac-terized by distinctive specialized syntactic structures, by theoccurrence of only certain domain-dependent word subclassesin certain syntactic combinations, and by the inclusion ofspecific ungrammatical forms (Sager, 1982).
However, theassociation of ?
sublanguage with a particular domain andthe emphasis on syntactic-semantic co-restrictions reduce theportability of a grammar defined on such a sublanguage.This paper presents an empirical characterization ofusers' language in an user-advising situation for the purposeof defining a domain-independent restricted subset of gram-matical and ungrammatical structures to help design morehabitable natural language interfaces to advisory systems.This paper also presents an interpretation of the factors thatcause users to naturally limit themselves to a very restrictedsubset of English in typed communications between users andcomputerized advisers.
We believe these factors will befound in any typed communications between users and ad-visers for the purposes of performing a primary task.
Hence,the restricted subset of English should be general to any suchsituations.A STUDY OF USER-ADVISER DIALOGUESIN A WIT.ARDoOF-OZ SETT INGMET I IOD ~ PROCEDUREThirty-two graduate students with basic statisticalknowledge were asked to solve up to eleven simple statisticsproblems.
Participants had to use an unfami l lar  statisticalpackage to solve the problems.
The upper window of theparticipants' creen was used to perform operations with thestatistical package and the lower window was used to typeutterances to the adviser.
The participants were instructedto ask help in English from what they believed was a com-puterized adviser by typing in the help window.
Tileparticipants' and adviser's utterances were sent to eachother's monitor and the utterances were recorded and time-stamped automatically to files.INow at Automated Language Processing Systems,Provo, Utah41RESULTS AND COMPARISON TO OT I IERSTUDIESWe are reporting only a small subset of our results, thoseto be compared to the results of Thompson (1980) and ofChafe (~.982).
The comparison is to identify the grammaticaland ungrammatical specializations specific to users' languagewith advisory systems and to help determine what featuresof user-advising situations might encourage or cause suchspecializations of structures.
Chal'e (1982) investigated Infor-mal Spoken language (i.e., dinner table conversations) andformal written language (i.e., academic papers).
Thompson(1980), in her second study, compared three types ofdialogues, Spoken Face-to-Face, Typed Human-Human(terminal-to-terminal) with both conversants knowing theircounterpart was human, and Human-Computer  using theREL  natural language front-end.
The task was informationretrieval.The data table report two sets of data, the percentage ofutterances with a particular form (e.g., one or more Frag-ments,  one or more phatics) to compare to Thompson'sresults and the corresponding number of occurrences of thisform per 1000 words to compare to Chafe's results.
Whennumbers are omitted from the tables, the corresponding datawere not collected by Thompson or Chafe.
Note that thereported data are only about users' utterances, and not theadviser's utterances.
We will use typed user-adviserdialogues and Wizard.of-Oz condition to refer to the data  ofour study.Completeness  and Formality of  Users'UtterancesAs can be seen in Table I, for completeness (i.e.,f ragments) and formality (i.e., phatics and and-connectors)users' utterances with advisory systems are more likeHuman-Computer  dialogues and Formal Written languagethan Spoken Face-to-Face or Typed Human-Humandialogues.Table 1: Completenes~ and Formalityf - \[ CIs~ Humst-  r?
psql ~lm~m~s )'l"J|m~M 24'11, .
.
.
.
i1~k 27 74% 74 $9"& @2 I~l~la~ .lqk | It 2J 41b ?
$~ $$ 111441 14 ~t4 ,d~ ~tae~ler iq, I 14 ~4Users avoided casual forms of language since theyproduced only 24% of fragmentary utterances, as opposed to74% in Typed Human-Human dialogues, but similar to 19%in the Human-Computer  condition.
Similarly, we found 2%of utterances with phatics, as opposed to 59% in the TypedHuman-Human dialogues, but similar to 4% in the Human-Computer dialogues.
Likewise, Chafe \[1980) found nophatics in Formal Written discourse, but .,bout 23 per 1000words in informal speech.
There is a similar finding for and-connectors.Users in the typed user-adviser dialogues seem to expectthe interface to be unable to handle f ragmentary input such~s found in Informal Spoken language and p lanned ored l ted  the i r  l anguage  to be as complete  and  fo rmal  asin the Human-Computer  dialogues, and more complete andformal than the language in Typed Human-Human dialogues.This is the case even though the Wizard in our study hardlyever rejected or misunderstood any users' utterance, no mat-ter how fragmentary or ungrammatical it was.
However,when conversants know that  their counterpart  is anotherhuman,  their language contains a large percentage of frag-ments and phatics, even when typed.
So it appears that apriori beliefs about the nature and abilities of the adviser(i.e., this is not a human) can determine the characteristics ofthe language produced by the user, even when task and lin-guistic performances by the adviser were not negatively af-letted by f ragmentary language from the user.Ungrammat lea l l t lesEven though users seemed to attempt to edit or plantheir utterances to be more complete and formal, 31?~ of theutterances contained one or more ungrammaticalities(excluding spelling and punctuat ion mistakes, if includedabout 50~ of utterances were ungrammatical) .
The mostfrequent ungrammatical i t ies were Fragments (13% of ut-terances with part(s) of the utterance being one or morefragments),  missing const i tuents (14~ of utterances with oneor more determiners missing), and lack of agreement betweenconstituents (5% of utterances).
While users seemed to planor to edit their language to be as complete and formal as inthe Human-Computer  dialogues, certain types of ungram-maticaiities were produced.
Two possible interpretations ofthis finding are: I) Certain types of ungrammaticalities donot seem to be easily under the conversant's control andedited or planned to be avoided during the dialogue; 2) Theycorrespond to a telegraphic language assumed to be under-stood by the interface.It would be interesting to find whether really two types ofungrammaticaiities exist, some that can be avoided undersome planning and others that cannot be so easily avoided.However, it is unclear whether the purposeful avoidance ofsome ungrammaticaiities by users can be capitalized upon toreduce the need For sophisticated robust parsing us we do notknow the cost from the users of avoiding certain types of un-grammaticalities.
On  the other hand, knowing the natureand frequency of the actual ungrammaticaiities produced byusers, as they are provided by this study, Facilitates realizingrobust parsing.General  Syntactic FeaturesAs can be seen in Table 2, users' utterances in typed user-adviser dialogues resemble more spoken informal discoursethan written formal discourse.
The difference in number ofoccurrences per I000 words between the Wizard-of-OZ con-dition and the Informal Spoken condition is much less thanthe same difference between the Wizard-of-OZ and the For-mai Written conditions.Table 2: Occurrences per 1000 Words ofVarious Syntactic FeaturesWi~u~b.of-Oz (~ufe Chu4"c Inl'urmaJ bi~-ech Furmal tVnllen~emence *,'nk, th 9 7 !
7-25Pu.~vm Vuice 1.0 $.O 25.4Cuurdir~m Cunjunctiuas 6.7 $.X 2J.SAt triimliv~ .-~dj4.~ ti ~ 3....1 J3.$ 1.34.9I"ir~ P~r'~n H.dcrcam 49.0 61-;5 4.6Nomis~.~liu?~ 11.4 9.7 S$.SI ( .~:*  ur N,m~imdizml Veto .7 .0 i I~d~j~; t  of  N u m i ~  V~ i -2  .O l  4.1,~  0 .9 7.2R,~ -t.~iw ~ J.S 9.?
15.11Short, simple (g5% of  our utterances were simple), activesentences, with few coordinations, few subordinations, fewrelative clauses, Few nominaiizations, (and deletion of deter-miners and unmarked agreement,  see the section onUngrammaticalities) characterize the language in typed user-adviser dialogues observed in our study.
These same featuresare features of unplanned language, which are atso featuresor child language, which are also features of languageproduced under real-time production constraints (Ochs, 1079;Givon, 1970).42While formality and completeness of typed user-adviserdialogues resemble more Formal Written language, thegeneral syntactic features of typed user-adviser dialoguesresemble more Informal Spoken language.
Formality andcompleteness appear to be independent properties of users'language from the general syntactic features, possiblyplanned independently.More important for the design of naturM language inter-faces, the observation that typed user-adviser dialoguesresemble language produced under real-time production con-stralnts indicates that users are strained by typing utterancesto request help to perform a primary task.
This constrainsthe usability of natural language interfaces as interfaces toadvisory systems.
One needs to identify the conditions underwhich the benefits of obtaining help outweight the costs oftyping in utterances to determine when natural language in-terfaces are effective interfaces to advisory systems.
On theother hand, the natural restrictions on the language producedby the users appear generalizable to any situation where real-time production constraints exist, of which, we believe, anytyped interaction to an advisory system for the purpose orperforming a primary task is an instance.Features Due Specifically to the User-Advls lngAppl lcat lonAs can be seen in Table 3, there are less imperatives inuser-advising dialogues because the user cannot request headviser to perform a statistical operation.
Moreover, we alsoobserve a goal-directed language with frequent to infinitives(I want/need to ...) and to purpose clauses (What is thecommand to compute ...), much more frequent than in Infor-mal Spoken or Formal Written languages.
We believe this isthe only feature that appears to be specific to the advisoryapplication, as opposed to be specific to communications un-der real*time constraints.
However, the goal-directedness ofthe language may be specific to advisory systems forprocedural tasks as opposed to more generaln informationretrieval tasks.
Of course, we are here excluding lexicalrestrictions because they are expected and uninteresting andsyntactic-semantic co-restrictions because of the desire foreasy portability.Table 3: Features Specific to Advisingm,, ,~  Cl~re CIm/ehnpcrJu~ 5.J% 19.0%Te Cmmple~'u 17.4 2.1l Ii,JIIComplex i ty  of Referring ExpressionsIn our study, users produced mostly very simple sentenceconstructions, as if under real-time production constraints(e.g., users' utterances were short and 95% of them weresimple (see the section on General Syntactic Features)).Nevertheless, very few pronouns occurred, 3% of utterancescontained pronouns, similar to what was found in FormalWritten Language, Human-Computer  dialogues, and inCohen, Pertig, ,~ Start (1982) in their typed terminal-to-terminal condition.
This is surprising because pronouns arevery short to type.
However, there were very frequent com-plex nominals with prepositional phrases (e.g., a record of tAcli~ting of the names of the features).
At least 50,C/o f the,:set-adviser utterances had one or more prepositionalphrases..-ks can be seen in Table 4, most of the structurallyambiguous prepositional attachments arc to NPs, in fact,mostly to the most contiguous/nearest NP.
So, users preferlonger to type complex nominals with explicit relations be*tween contiguous NPs over faster to type pronouns, eventhough there is evidence that they are operating under real-~.ime production constraints.
Because pronominal nounphrases (and also deictic expressions) are so rare, it appearsthat users rely little on spatial context (i.e., the screen), lin-guistic context (i.e., the utterances produced so far), and taskcontext (i.e., statistical commands  typed so far) in producingreferring expressions.
One interpretation of this finding isthat users believe that there is poor shared context betweenuser and adviser when they do not share physical context (asin Formal Written language) or do not know the linguisticcapabilities of the conversant (a~ in Human-Computerdialogues).
So, while in unplanned discourse speakers relymore on the context to express propositions and use morepronouns than in planned discourse (Ochs, 1979) and whileuser-adviser dialogues exhibit many features of unplanneddiscourse, users did not capitalize on context in producingreferring expressions.
It appears that the referential func-tions in language can be planned independently of and arenot necessarily subject to the same real-time production con-straints than the predicative and other functions of language.Again we are finding that typed user-adviser dialogues havesome features of planned, Formal Written language but alsohave features of unplanned, Informal Spoken language.Table 4: Distribution of PropositionalAt tachmentsCtHmp~x NP 71 NP/Vp 120 Complex NP/VP !04Nemrt~ NP t7 131 {~l~r NPs 4 NP 72 C~npk~ NP-nL~r?~VI e 31 ('mnpknl N P-.~hcrs S.4nll~guow | 7 ~ P .14,,,u~igum~ 21Nevertheless, not only are most prepositional attach-ments to NPs to create precise description of objects, theyare mostly to the most contiguous NP.
This observationsuggests that real-time production constraints neverthelessplay some role in the production of referential expressions.Users appear to minimize resources allocated to the produc-tion of referentiM expressions by reducing short-termmemory load by attachments to the lowest, most recent NF.This interpretation is supported by studies that show that itis easier to process right-branching structures than left-branching ones (Yngve, 1060).The finding that most prepositional phrases attach toNPs rather than VPs and moreover attach most often to thelowest, nearest NP  is important for the semantic interpreta-tion of sentences because of the combinatorial explosion ofpossible attachments of prepositional phrases.DISCUSSIONUsers' utterances in typed user-adviser dialogues, whenthe users believe that the adviser is computerized, resembleInformal Spoken speech, except for referring expressions (i.e.,frequent complex nominals) and for completeness and for-mality (i.e., few phatics and and-connectors, and relativelyfew fragments), in which case they resemble more FormalWritten language.
We would like to hypothesize that thegrammatical and ungrammatical forms observed occur be-cause the communicative context and the application inducecertain user's beliefs and goals and induce certain processingconstraints which determine the most effective syntacticforms to communicate verbally.
The communicative contextdescribes dimensions of the situation in which the discourse isgenerated that are believed to affect the form of the dis-course.
Examples of dimensions arc: interaction, the extentto which user and adviser can quickly interact, respond toeach other; involvement, the extent to which the communica-tion is directed specifically to one person as opposed to ananonymous class of persons; spatial commonality, the degreeto which the conversants see each other, see the same physi-cal environment, and know that they share this environmentperceptually.
As can be seen in Table 5, typed user-adviserdialogues in a Wizard-of-Oz setting are more similar to int'or-?
real Spoken language on dimensions of interaction and in-43volvement, but more similar to Formal Written language onthe dimension of spatial commonality.
We would like tohypothesize that different values on these dimensions are as-sociated with different restricted languages produced by theusers.
Findings from Biber (1980) help support thishypothesis.
He performed a factor analysis on 545 textsamples.
He uncovered the following three dimensions:?
INTERACTIVE vs. Edited: High personal in-volvement and real*time constraints.?
SITUATED vs. Abstract contexts: Reliance onexternal situation, concrete vs. detached anddeliberate.?
IMMEDIATE vs. Reported: Reference to a cur-rent situation vs. removed or past situation.Tab le  ,5: Communicat ive  Context  ParametersIm**fmsl ~ Termmel-ia-T~m,dud wLL~rd id U i  Feesa~ wnuelM~i ly  ~ *r ims ,,nt~m m-.
ImIo ternct~= hiO *an  *w~~hmr~l  k~iewk~lce *N  ,= *~,  a*m~*m ** ~ ~ *~ amm*m Lm ** togaFrom the set of features reported by Biber that loadedhighly on the three dimensions, user-adviser dialogues hadfeatures of both interact ive texts (e.g., many Wh-questions,many first person references, final prepositions) and editedtexts (e.g., few phatics).
This is because user-adviserdialogues, while written by users uncertain about theinterface's ability to handle fragmentary and informal input,have a high degree of interaction and involvement of theconversants.
The syntactic features observed in user-adviserdialogues overlapped greatly with the features of sltuatedtexts (e.g., few passives and nominalizations), except for thefrequent use of complex nominals and unfrequent use ofpronouns an deictic expressions, and of Immedlate  texts(e.g., use of present tense, few third person pronouns).
Thecomplexity of referring expressions uncovers a dimension notrevealed in Biber's work: the degree of believed sharedknowledge by the converSants.
Our users seemed to ~ssumepoor shared knowledge and relied on complex referring ex-pressions to insure successful communication.
Anotherdimension is the conversants' belief in the ability of theircounterpart to handle fragmentary or informal language.Informal Spoken face-to-face language is often unplanned,interactive, situated, immediate, and subject to real-timeproduction constraints.
So are users' typed utterances to ad-visory systems.
However, unlike Informal Spoken face-to*face language, users believe that there is poor shared contextbetween conversants and rely little on context in producingreferring expressions and users do not assume that the inter-face can handle fragmentary or informal language.We would like to conclude by making the hypothesis thatany typed terminal-to*terminal user-adviser dialogues will besimilar to Informal Spoken language, as wiLs observed in ourstudy, because they are under the same communicative con-text and application.
This provides a subset of grammaticaland ungrammatical forms that can be used to define a coregrammar portable to most user-advising situations, irrespec-tive of the domain.
On the other hand, the complexity ofreferring expressions and the degree of completeness and for-mality of language may differ according to the users' beliefsabout the linguistic capabilities of the interface.
,ACKNOWLEDGEMENTSWe wish to thank Elaine Rich, Kent Wittenburg, andGregg Whittemore for useful comments on this researchproject.
We also thank Sherry Kalin, Hans Brunner, andGregg Whittemore for their help in collecting or analyzingthe dialogues between users and adviser.REFERENCESBiber, D. (1986).
Spoken.
and written textual dimensionsin English.
Lan9uage, 6~ (2), 384-414.Chafe, W.L.
(1982).
Integration and involvement inspeaking, writing, and oral literature.
In D. Tannen (Ed.
),Spokevx and written language: Ezploring orality andliteracy.. Norwood, N J: Ablex.Cohen, P.R., Pertig, S., .~" Starr, K. (1982).
Dependenciesof discourse structure on the modality of communication:Telephone vs. teletype.
Proceedings of the ~Oth Annual,~\[eeting of the Aaaoclation for Gomputatlonal Linguistics.University of Toronto, Ontario, Canada.Finin, T.W., Joshl, A.K., ~ Webber, B.L.
(1986).
Naturallanguage interactions with artificial experts.
Proceedings ofthe IEEE, 7J, 7, 921-938.Givon, T. (1979).
From discourse to syntax: Grammara~ a processing strategy.
In T. Givon (Ed.
), Syntaz andSemantics: Discourse and syntaz.
New York: AcademicPress.Grishman, R., Hirshman, L., .~ Nhan, N.T.
(1086) Dis-covery Procedures for Sublanguags Selectional Patterns: In-itial Experiments.
Computational Linguistics, I~3).Haxris, Z.S.
(1968).
A\[athematical Structures inLanguage.
New York: Wiley (Interscience).Kittredge, R. (1982).
Variation and Homegeneity of Sub-languages.
In R. Kittredge ~ J. Lehrberger (Eds.
),Sublanguage: Studies of Language in Restricted SemanticDomains.
New York: Walter de Gruyter ~ Co.Ochs, E. (1979).
Planned sad unplanned discourse.
InT.
Givon (Ed.
), Syntaz and Sevnantlc$: Discourse andsyntaz.
New York: Academic Press.Sager, N. (1982).
Syntactic Formatting of Science Infor-mation.
In R. Kittredge -~ J. Lehrberger (Eds.
), Sublanguage:Studies of Language in Restricted Semantic Domains.
NewYork: Walter de Gruyter 2~ Co.Thompson, B.H.
(1980).
Linguistic analysis of naturallanguage communication with computers.
Proceedings of the~h International Conference on ComputationalLinguistics.
Tokyo, Japan.Trawick, D.J.
(1983).
Robust Sentence Analysis andHabitability.
Doctoral Dissertation, California Institute ofTechnology, Pasadena.Watt, W.C. (1968).
Habitability.
American Documen.ration, /g(3), 338-351.Yngve, V. (1980).
A model and an hypothesis for lan-guage structure.
Proceddings of the American PhilosophicalSociety.44
