THE LOGICAL ANALYSIS OF LEXICAL AMBIGUITYAbstractTheodes of semantic interpretation which wish tocapture as many generalizations as possible mustface up to the manifoldly ambiguous and contextuallydependent nature of word meaning?
In this paper Ipresent a two-level scheme of semantic interpretationin which the first level deals with the semantic con-sequences of'syntactic structure and the second withthe choice of word meaning.
On the first level themeanings of ambiguous words, pronominalreferences, nominal compounds and metonomies arenot treated as fixed, but are instead represented byfree variables which range over predicates and func-tions.
The context-dependence of lexical meaning isdealt with by the second level, a constraint propaga-tion process which attempts to assign values to thesevariables on the basis of the logical coherence  of theoverall result.
In so doing it makes use of a set ofpolysemy operators which map between lexicalsenses, thus making a potentially indefinite number ofrelated senses available.1 INTRODUCTION: LEXICALASSOCIATION IN A COMPOSITIONALSEMANTICSA tenet now held with some force among formalsemanticists is that the meaning of a complex natural-language expression should be a function of just twothings: the meanings of the parts of the expressionand the syntactic rule used to form the expression outof those parts.
Systems such as Montague Grammar\[9\] give phrases like "former senator" compositionaltreatments by first translating them to an expressionof intensional ogic, and then giving this expression amodel-theoretic interpretation in the usual way.
Thepractical relevance of this goal to work in natural lan-guage processing is clear: for any application domain,maximum coverage could be obtained from the samedomain-independent set of rules, needing only to addthe relevant entries, with their primitive associations ofmeaning, to the lexicon.~The work presented here was supported under OARPA contract#N00014-85-C-0016.
The views and conclusJons contained in thisdocument are those of the author and should not be inte~reted asnecessarily representing the official policies, either expressed orimplied, of the Defense Aclvance~ Research Projects Agency or theUnited States Government.David Stallard,BBN Laboratories Inc.10 Moulton St.,Cambridge, Mass.02238An obvious technical issue for this program israised by the phenomenon of lexical ambiguity.
Thisproblem is not one that has been particularly ad-dressed in the Montague Grammar literature.
Themost obvious approach is simply to make alternativelexical senses separate entries in the lexicon, and toallow these disambiguated lexicat items to give rise toseparate syntactic and semantic analyses.
The com-putationally unattractive consequences of this arequite clear: the same work must be done over againfor each variant.An alternative class of proposals defers the lexicalpart of the analysis until the rest is done.
Hobbs\[5\] has presented the most detailed general treatmentof this type to date.
This treatment simply associateseach ambiguous lexical item with the logical disjunc-tion of its separate senses.
Standard reasoning tech-niques (such as theorem proving) can then be ap-plied.
The problem with this approach is that it issimply not correct.
This may be most straightfor-wardly seen in yes/no questions that contain an am-biguity.
For example, suppose the the ambiguousverb "have" is to be treated as the disjunction of thepredicates POSSESS, PART-OF, etc.
Then theanswer to the question "Does the butcher havekidneys?"
must always come out "yes", because thesecond alternative is (assumably) true regardless.This method goes wrong because the issue in resolv-ing ambiguity is determining which possibility was in-tended, not which possibility is true.A more correct approach is due to Landsbergenand Scha \[8\] and implemented in the PHLIQA1 sys-tem.
There, the result of semantic interpretation is anexpression of an ambiguous logical language calledEFL (for English-oriented Formal Language).
Duringsemantic interpretation each lexeme is assigned toone (possibly ambiguous) descriptive constant of thatlanguage, which is later mapped, via local translationrules, to one or more expressions of an unambiguouslogical language called WML (for World ModelLanguage).
The result is a set of complete WMLtranslations of the entire EFL expression, from whichsortally anomalous alternatives are subsequentlyeliminated.The PHLIQA1 system, while handling homonymyacceptably, does not address the problem ofpo lyserny  .
the presence of an indefinite number ofrelated senses for a single word.
Consider thepolysemous lexeme "mouth", which is used differently179in the phrases "mouth of a person", "mouth of abottle", "mouth of a river", and "mouth of a cave".Surely the same logical relationship is not involved ineach of these cases.
Generalizing the meaning of theword will not help either, for if we tried to re-define"mouth" to mean just any aperture, we would lose ourability to refer to human "mouths" independently ofother parts of the body.
Enumerating these separatesenses with separate translation rules does not looklike a very promising approach either, since it is not atall clear that the list above could not be continuedindefinitely.
The problem with such an approach tomeaning seems to be that it is too discrete: in linguis-tic terms, it does not "capture a generalization".This paper presents a method of dealing with lex-ical meanings which does seek to capture thegeneralizations implicit in polysemy.
The complexesof meanings associated with polysemous lexical itemsare generated, structured and extended by a kind of"grammar" of word meaning: a set of operators whichtake descriptive constants of a meaning represen-tation language onto other descriptive constants orexpressions of that language.
These operations in-clude not only metaphorical and metonymic extensionof the word sense, but "broadening", which allows aword to refer to a wider class of items than before;"exclusion", which removes from the denotation of aword the members of a particular subset thereof;"narrowing", which narrows the denotation down to aparticular subset.
Each word is assumed to have acore sense (or in the case that it is homonymous,several core senses) from which extended sensescan be derived by recursive application of theoperators.Related to the issue of lexical ambiguity, if tradi-tionally studied apart from it.
are the problems raisedby nominal compounds and metonymies.
Here theproblem is determining the binary relation which hasbeen "elided" from the utterance.
This could in prin-ciple be any relation; a translation rule approach can-not help here.
Novel metaphorical uses of a word,such as the substitution of an individual for a wholeclass, will also escape such an approach.
The pointabout all three of these phenomena is that they es-sentially create new lexical senses.
The productive-ness of this process suggests that the establishedsenses of polysemous lexemes may be generated inthe same way.A key innovation of this work is to treat every non-logical word as being potentially ambiguous.
Thussemantic interpretation initially assigns to each suchlexical item not an ambiguous constant, but a freevariable capable of ranging over the appropriate typeof a higher-order intensional logic \[4\].
These free vari-ables are restricted to range not over an explicitlyenumerated set of logical expressions, but over apotentially infinite set of them which is recursivelyenumerable by the polysemy operators.
Obviously,the core sense itself (and other established senses)are not excluded as candidates.
A separate con-straint propagation stage then assigns appropriatedescriptive constant values to these variables basedon the sortal coherence of the whole expression.This two-stage method of semantic interpretationwill be seen to have an advantage over one not dis-cussed so far: a single stage method which not doesnot allot a separate role to lexical semantics or payclose attention to compositionality, but rather seeks tointerpret distinct patterns like "mouth of a cave" as awhole.
Besides suffering from the same lack ofgenerality criticised above this latter method en-counters difficulty when an ambiguous word-form anda pronoun or trace are combined together.
A secondconstraint propagation stage enables the dependenceof word meaning on context - specifically, on themeanings of other words and the referents ofanaphors and deixis in the utterance - to be captured.The computational effect is that search can be cutdown in a space that is essentially a cartesian productover the ambiguous elements of an utterance.2 THE NOTION OF A "LOGICALVOCABULARY"Lexical association cannot be considered apartfrom a notion of "logical" or "conceptual" vocabulary -the set of descriptive constants of a logical languagewhich are available for making such associations.This notion may be identified with the "domain model"or "conceptual model" of such systems as PHLIQA1\[11\], TEAM \[3\] and IRUS \[1\].
Logical vocabularies, or"domains", are what the polysemy operators workwith.
The present section lays down the represen-tational structure which the next, dealing with thepolysemy operators themselves, will make use of.Let a "domain" be defined as a set of descriptiveconstants and axioms involving them, subject to threeconditions: (1) The descriptive constants are such thata specification of each of their extensions gives a"state of the world" relevant to the domain (2) Theaxioms are such that they constrain which states ofthe world are possible or allowable (3) The axioms donot define the constants with the biconditional, butwith one-way implication only, thus leaving the con-stants primitive.
If complete definitions of constantsvia lambda-abstraction is allowed it is only as a tech-nical convienenca; these are to be regarded as"extra".The latter condition (3) captures the important factthat domains are not definable in terms of otherdomains.
Thus expressions cast in logical vocabularyO A cannot be directly used to refer to states of affairs,etc.
expressible only in terms of logical vocabularyDe.
This has an impact for natural language questionanswering systems in which D A is the notions of or-dinary language and D B the logical vocabulary ofsome technical domain.
In this case, only lexicalitems specially invented for the technical domain(such as "JP-5", a particular kind of military jet fuel)180have an unproblematic lexical association in terms ofD 8.
Obviously not all the words a user employs willhave this characteristic, nor will all the constants ofthe technical domain be lexicalizable in thisway.
Inother cases the notions of D A will have to be mappedto those of D 8, in some way that is not yet specified.A common occurrence is for lexical items avail-able in regular English to be employed to bridge thegap, in such a way as to multiply their effective am-biguity.
Consider a question seeking to find ships witha certain offensive capability: "What ships carry Har-poon missiles?".
On a literal interpretation of the word"carry" the predication of the sentence is satisfiedwhether the ships "carry" the missiles as weaponry oras incidental cargo, yet of these only the first alter-native is the desired one.
If the query were instead"What ships carry oranges?"
the second alternative isthe preferable one.
The resultant "splitting" of lexicalsenses can be regarded as a form of ambiguitygenerated by the contact between logical domains.Other kinds of mapping between notions of dif-ferent domains are more complex, not taking placealong the lines of greater or lesser specificity, but in-volving instead another kind of mapping that is reallytantamount o metaphor.
A phrase like "in Marketing",for example, is not locative in the literal sense of loca-tion in space but rather makes use of a metaphorhaving to do with this notion.
Here the initial domainis that of space and spatial inclusion, while the finalone is that of, say, fields of employment or expertise.The formal representation of metaphor used inthis work is that of Indurkhya \[7\].
Indurkhya identifiesa metaphor with the formal notion of a "T-MAP": a pair<F,S> where F is a function mapping descriptive con-stants from one domain to another and S is a set ofsentences which are expected to carry over from thefirst domain to the second.
A metaphor is "coherent"if the transferred sentences S are logically consistentwith the axioms of the target domain, "stronglycoherent" if they already lie in the deductive closure ofthose axioms.Depending on the formal language used torepresent the statements S, one may encounter com-putational difficulties (i.e.
decidability) with thisprogram.
One way around this is not to use predicatecalculus (as Indurkhya does) but a language that ismore restrictive than predicate calculus.
For the priceof surrending complete expressive power one gainsthe advantage of deductive tractability.One system which may be used for this purpose isthe NIKL \[10\] system, in which only a few types ofaxioms can be encoded.
A descriptive constantsubsumes another of the same complex type if itsextension is always a superset of the other.
Twoconstants are disjoint if their extensions are alwaysdisjoint.
(Note that respective subsumees of the twoconstants "inherit" this disjointness.)
Relations ofmore than one argument have sortal (one-placepredicate) restrictions on their argument, thus stipulat-ing that the extension of the relation will always be asubset of the cartesian product of the extensions ofthe sorts.
Finally, a one-place predicate P restricts abinary relation R to be Q if the image under R of eachmember of P's extension is a member of the exten-sion of the second one-place predicate Q.
In whatfollows I will treat this operation as restricting the formthat the extension of the relation R may take on, sothat the placing of constraint P on the first argumentresults in a propagation of the constraint Q on thesecond argument.3 THE LEXICAL CONSTRAINT MODULE3.1 Overv iewIn this section I present a solution to the multipleproblems of ambiguity posed by a natural utterance.Added to the architecture of semantic interpreter, dis-course model, lexicon and domain model is a newcomponent - the lexical constraint module.
It acceptsfrom the semantic interpreter a logical form containingfree variables of higher-order and constructs from it aconstraint graph structure in which such variables areconnected in accordance with the syntactic structureof the expression.
This structure is then used in aconstraint-propagation process that attempts to as-sign descriptive constant values to the expressions.The lexicon in this scheme stores for each non-logicalword an extendable poiysemic complex (or com-plexes, in the case of homonymy) of logical associa-tions.
I shall describe assumptions about the seman-tic rule set-up as I go along.In making these assignments, the module appliesa "maxim of coherence".
That is, we assume that theuser will not deliberately speak nonsense to us, useterms redundantly, or make use of elaborate means torefer to the null set.
A coherent outcome is one wherethe descriptive constants being applied to the sameterms (bound variables and individual constants) arenot sortaily disjoint.
This may not always be achiev-able with the core sense of words.
When it is not, aset of "polysemy operators" is invoked to re-interpret alexical assignment in such a way as to make sense ofthe expression.I will first consider an example where no suchre-interpretation is required.
For the utterance "Johnhas a car", the following logical form is given as inputto the constraint module:(3 x (=at x) & (have John x))The underlined symbols are the free variables.
Sup-pose the main verb "have" to be homonymous be-tween the various predicates PART-OF, OWN,AFFLICTED-WITH.
The last of these is eliminablebecause the argument sorts it requires and the thesorts given to it do not agree: physical objects andb181diseases are disjoint sets.
Such surface inspection ofargument sorts is not the only source of constraint,however.
For some relations a particular constrainton the first argument causes a constraint on itssecond argument.
Thus, the alternative PART-OF iseliminable because the parts of an organism mustthemselves be organic material, something clearlydisjoint with artifacts like cars.
The constraint graph isnow satisfied, and we are left with:(3 z (CAR X) & (OWNS JOHN =))3.2 The po lysemy operatorsWe now proceed to overconstrained cases inwhich potential assignments are in conflict, and re-interpretation by the polysemy operators is required.For the first pair of such operators, genera/ization andexc/usion, we will make use of the Montague Gram-mar notion of universal sub/imation \[2\].
A universalsublimation of a concept A is just the set of propertieswhich are true of all A's members, or:(kp (v x A(X) -> P(X}))Generalization and exclusion operate upon lexicalsenses by modifying their universal sublimations andlooking for the alternative meaning (if any) of the wordthat most closely corresponds to this new set.As an example of genera/ization, consider thephrase "plastic silverware".
While in literal terms thisis oxymoronic, one often sees it used to refer to plas-tic eating utensils, and in situations where only theseitems are available, the word "silverware" alone maybe used to denote them.
Obviously for such speakersthe class EATING-UTENSIL is available as an ex-tended and generalized sense of "silverware".
Theinitial representation would be:(kX (and, (p las t i=  x)(silverwaz.
x) ) )A portion of the sublimation of the concept SILVER-WARE is the set {MADE-OF-SILVER, EATING-UTENSIL}.
Of these, it is the first property that isdisjoint with PLASTIC and a new sublimation is con-structed which excludes it.
In the partial represen-tation above, this new sublimation is just the classEATING-UTENSIL itself.Exclusion takes a lexical sense onto one fromwhich particular sub-senses have been explicitly ex-cluded.
Consider the sentence "The Thresher is not aship, it's a submarine", or, to be free about its logicalform:(CONTRAST (ship Thresher)(submarine Thrlsher) )If we assign the core meanings to these words this isnonsensical, since SUBMARINEs are, by definition,SHIPs as well.
The expression coheres if whatever isassigned to ship excludes SUBMARINE.
We form apartial sublimation {SHIP,~SUBMARINE}, and findcorresponding to it the alternative sense of "ship",SURFACE-SHIP.A surprising number of words have such alter-native exclusionary senses, among them "axe", whereHATCHET is excluded; "animal", where HUMAN isexcluded; and "blue", where TURQUOISE (and otheroff-color shades) is excluded.
The phenomenonseems to be that a specialized term for some distin-guished subset of a concept comes to be thepreferred term for members of that subset.
The all-embracing word can still be used, but it comes tohave a sense which is contrastive with these distin-guished subsets.
From the impression made by aVenn diagram of the set and its excluded subsets wemight call this "cut-out" polysemy.One wonders if certain phenomena which havebeen described as ill-formedness might not in fact beinstances of this sort of polysemy.
Goodman, for in-stance, uses the actual word pair "blue" - "turquoise"as an example of"miscommunication"cite(Goodman85).
What seemsmore plausible however, is that the speaker describ-ing a turquoise object as "blue" is not really misspeak-ing, but is rather using the word "blue" in the moreinclusive sense which embraces all shades of thecolor.Metonymic extension re-interprets a predicate byinterposing an arbitrary, sortally compatible relationbetween an argument place of the predicate and theactual argument.
An example can be seen in thecommand "Highlight C3 tracks", where "C3" is apredication made of ships and "tracks" are trajectoriesof ship positions, traced out on a screen.
Obviously,on literal interpretation, this utterance does notcohere, since physical objects (ships) and graphicalobjects (tracks) are disjoint.
We have:(HIGHLIGHT " (kX (=3 X) & ( t rack  X) ) )The categories SHIP and TRACK have too manyclashing properties for generalization or exclusion toprevail.
Instead, the two clashing elements are recon-ciled by finding a function or relation reaching be-tween SHIPs and TRACKs (or subsuming categories)and metonymically extending one of the items with it.The extended meaning of "C3" can be expressed by:(kx (3 Y (~a  (sHzP Y)(SHIP-TRACK Y X)(c3 Y) ) )In any usage of the metonomy operation there is achoice about which of two clashing elements to ex-tend.
In this case it would also have been possible tohave metonymically extended "track" instead of "C3"in this example.
The resultant expression would thenbe a set of ships instead of tracks - clearly not what iswanted here.
It would moreover not be an im-mediately coherent one itself, since "highlighting" canonly be done on graphical objects.
More importantly,it would seem to be that metonomies are less likely to182shift the head noun meaning, since this changes thesortal category of what is being referred to andoperated upon by the utterance.
This seems to beparticularly strong when the head noun's meaning hasan underlying functional role, as does "track" in thiscase.Note that many words which at first appear tohave unitary senses are actually better described interms of metonymic complexes.
Thus, "window" canbe used to refer to its constituent pane of glass, itssash, or the opening around it.
Similar examples canbe seen in "light", which can be used to refer to theactual electromagnetic radiation or the device forproducing it, and "bank" (in the fiscal sense), whichcan be used to refer to the building or the financialinstitution itself.Metaphorical extension operates not by shifting anargument place of a predicate, but by shifting thepredicate itself.
Capturing the generality in the mean-ing of "mouth" in the example of section 1 involvescapturing a class of metaphors involving that concept.Classes of metaphors are described by the notion of apararneterized T-MAP, in which the mapping functionF and set of sentences S are not completely specified,but may instead have missing elements which mustbe solved for.
Let "mouth of the cave" be given by:(mouth (iota x (cave x)))The functional constant MOUTH is restricted tooperate on individuals of the class ANIMAL, so theabove is incoherent on literal interpretation.
Ametaphorical re-interpretation must select certain con-stants for the mapping function F and certain facts Swhich carry over to the new domain.
Two such factsare:SUBSUMES (ENCLOSES-SPACE, ANIMAL)SUBSUMES (OPENING, MOUTH)In this use of the word "mouth" it is operating on in-dividuals of the class CAVE instead of ANIMAL.
Oneelement of the mapping function F is thus the pair(ANIMAL,CAVE).
In order to determine the relation-ship that the word "mouth" really means in the ex-ample we must solve for a function variable P whichMOUTH is mapped to.
This function must be sortatlycoherent with CAVE; it is the righthand member of thesecond ordered pair of the mapping function F.The sentences to be transferred are:SUBSUMES (ENCLOSES- SPAC~, CAV'E)SUBSUMES (OPENING-OF, P )Of these, the first is not only not inconsistent, but true.One descriptive constant of the geological domainwhich is obviously not incoherent with CAVE is thefunction CAVE-ENTRANCE.
If this function is used inplace of P the second sentence is satisfied as well.An important metric of metaphorical plausibility ishow much structure in S is transferred from source totarget domain versus how many descriptive constantsare mapped via the function F. In the present examplethe ratio is one.
Clearly if this ratio is high themetaphor is stronger and more plausible; if it is lowthe metaphor is less so.3.3 Nomina l  CompoundsNominal compounds are treated by assuming thatthe semantic rules formulate their interpretation with afree binary predicate variable standing in for the rela-tion which must be determined to complete the inter-pretation of the compound.
Interpreting the nominalcompound thus becomes solving for this predicatevariable.
This variable is initially unconstrained ex-cept by the sorts of the noun meanings it connects.A problem with some nominal compounds is thatthey seem to violate the restrictions imposed by theircomponent parts.
For example, a "staple gun" is nota weapon at all, and would thus on some treatmentshave to be treated either idiomatically or as a com-pletely incoherent expression.
With the approachpresented here, however, the polysemy operators canbe invoked to find a re-interpretation of the words forwhich a solution does exist.
The word "gun" can bere-interpreted to discard the clashing property ofshooting bullets only, and to denote in this case thewider class of devices that eject objects of whatevertype.An important point about nominal compounds isthat they cannot be treated extensionally, A soup potis still such whether it currently contains somethingdifferent from soup, or indeed whether it contains any-thing at all.
Clearly, the relation to be solved for in anominal compound may in  general be a non-extensional one between kinds, Such a relation mayin turn have a meaning postulate which dictates whichactual entities (such as the actual soup) may be re-lated at which indices of time.
This phenomenonwould seem to pose a problem for Hobbs and Martin\[6\], who view as a sub-problem resolving the refer-ence of the "lube oil" in the compound "tube oil alarm".One can imagine a "lube oil alarm" which only soundswhen all the lube oil is gone.3.4 Effect on Anaphora  Reso lu t ionEven after syntactic and pragmatic considerationshave been taken into account, the decision on thecorrect referents for anaphora cannot take place in-dependently of considerations of word meaningchoice.
Consider the following two sentences:(I) The  tab le  i8 in that  bu i ld ing(2) I t  im ?
bank .The proper referent of "it" in (2) is constrained by thepredication made by the ambiguous lexical item"bank", namely that it either be a RIVER-BANK or aBANK-BUILDING.
Neither is sortally coherent withTABLE, the referent described by "the table" is elimin-183able.
The only thing left is the individual described by"that building" and since BUILDING, being an AR-TIFACT, is disjoint with RIVER-BANK, the propersense of "bank" is BANK-BUILDING and the referentof "it" is "that building".exclusion operator) that an alternative sense of "lion"means a male lion only.
One should not presume,however, that the discovery of new lexical senses willoccur on a constant basis.
The last heuristic above istherefore an important one.3.5 Algor i thm and Heurist icsThe algorithm used by the lexical constraintmodule is a search loop consisting of just three parts -tentative assignment, constraint propagation andre-interpretation.
Qn the first iteration tentative as-signment constrains each word-variable with its corelogical sense, or the set of its core senses if it ishomonymous.
These serve as entry points to thepolysemy complexes.
Variables associated withanaphors are initially constrained by whatever prag-matic and syntactic (such as C-command) considera-tions are seen to apply.
The variables associated withnominal compounds are initially left unconstrained.Thereafter, constraint propagation may end up inone of three states: satisfaction, in which case themodule returns a single logical expression;underconstraint, in which case there is an ambiguitywith which the user must be presented; overconstraintin which case re-interpretation is invoked to search foran interpretation which coheres.The most important issue in performing re-interpretation is controlling the process that the sys-tem does not "hallucinate" arbitrary meanings into anexpression.
The control heuristics include:1. consider overconstrained variables forre-interpretation first2.
prefer generalizations and exclusionswhich modify a small number ofproperties3.
prefer metaphorical extensions with ahigh ratio of plausibility (as in Sec 3,2)and minimize the number of"augmentations" and "positings" \['7\]4. avoid multiple re-interpretations of thesame item5.
prefer re-interpretations to already es-tablished polysemous senses instead ofcreating new onesIn Hobbs' work \[6\] control turns on a notion of a "cost-function" associated with the lengths of proofs.
Thenotion of "minimality" in that work has some similarityto the heuristics above, which seek to avoid arbitraryre-interpretations of lexical meanings by preferingconservative re-interpretations and discouraging mul-tiple ones.The creation by the polysemy operators of newsense for a word can effectively be regarded as a kindof "learning".
Thus, given the sentence "That's not alion, that's a lioness" the system could deduce (via the4 CONCLUSIONSThis component will be implemented in a futureversion of BBN's JANUS natural language under-standing system.
Included in this system will be aunification parser with a large grammar and a newand improved semantic interpreter.I have tried to show how a compositional seman-tics need not be incompatible with a context-dependent notion of word meaning by making a divi-sion of labor between the rule-to-rule translation ofsyntactic structure and the complex semantics of lex-ical items.
I shall even go so far as to say that such adivision of labor is neccesary for the compositionalprogram to succeed.
A component which takes intoaccount the creativity of lexical meanings and whichutilizes knowledge representation and limited in-ference not only gives word meaning its proper placein a modular system but also has the potential of ex-tending coverage and flexibility beyond what is cur-rently available in natural language systems.AcknowledgementsI would like to thank Remko Scha for his manyuseful comments on this work.
I would also like tothank Erhard Hinrichs and Bob Ingria for their com-ments and encouragement, and Jessica Handler forvaluable linguistic data.References\[1\] Bates, Madeleine and Bobrow, Robert J.A Transportable Natural Language Interfacefor Information Retrieval.In Proceedings of the 6th Annual Internationa/ACM SIGIR Conference.
ACM Special In-terest Group on Information Retrieval andAmerican Society for Information Science,Washington.
D.C., June, 1983.\[2\] David R. Dowry, Robert E. Wail, and StanleyPeters.Introduction to Montague Grammar.D, Reidel Publishing Company, 1981,\[3\] Barbara Grosz, Douglas E, Appelt, Paul Mar-tin, and Fernando Pereira.TEAM: An Experiment in the Design of Trans-portable Natural-Language Interfaces.Technical Report 356, SRI International,Menlo Park, CA, August, 1985.184\[4\]Is\]\[6\](7\]C8\]\[9\]\[10\]\[11\]Hinrichs, Erhard W.A Revised Syntax and Semantics of a Seman-tic Interpretation Language.1986.Hobbs, Jerry R.Overview of the TACITUS Project.In Proceedings of the DARPA 1986 StrategicComputing Natural Language Workshop,pages 19-25.
The Defense AdvancedResearch Projects Agency, May, 1986.Jerry R. Hobbs and Paul Martin.Local Pragmatics.In Proceedings, UCA/-87.
International JointConferences on Artificial Intelligence, Inc.,August, 1987.To appear.lndurkhya, Bipin.Constrained Semantic Transference: A FormalTheory of Metaphors.Technical Report 85i008, Boston University,1985.Landsbergen, S.P.J.
and Scha, R.J.H.Formal Languages for Semantic Represen-tation.In Allen and Petofi (editors), Aspects ofAutomatized Text Processing: Papers inText/inguistics.
Hamburg:Buske, 1979.Montague, R.The Proper Treatment of Quantification in Or-dinary English.In Jo Hintakka, J.Moravcsik and P.Suppes(editors), Approaches to Natural Lan-guage.
Proceedings of the 1970 StanfordWorkahip on Grammar and Semantics,pages 221-242.
Dordrecht: D.Reidel,1973.Moser, Margaret.An Overview of N/KL.Technical Report Section of BBN Report No.5421, Bolt Beranek and Newman Inc.,1983.Scha, Remko J.H.Logical Foundations for Question-Answering.Phillips Research Laboratories, Eindhoven,The Netherlands, 1983.185
