CONSTRAINTS ON THE GENERATION OF ADJUNCT CLAUSESAl ison K. Huet tner*  Mar ie  M. Vaughan ** David  D. McDona ld  **Department of Linguistics *Department of Computer & Information Science **University of MassacusetttsAmherst, Massachusetts 01003ABSTRACTThis paper presents an analysis of a family ofparticular English constructions, all of which roughlyexpress "purpose".
In particular we look at thepurpose clause, rationale .clause, and infinitivalrelative clause.
We (1) show that couching theanalysis in a computational framework, specificallygeneration, provides a more satisfying account hananalyses based strictly on descriptive linguistics, (2)describe an implementation f our analysis in thenatural language generation system MUMBLE-86, and(3) discuss how our architecture improves upon thetechniques used by other generation systems forhandling these and other adjunct constructions.1.
INTRODUCTIONNatural anguage provides avariety of devices forexpressing relations between elements in a text..Simply positioning two sentences in sequence conveysan implicit relation between them:(1) I bought a book.
I'm going to read it on the plane.Clauses may also be joined with explicit lexicalconnectives:(2) I bought a book so that I could read it on the plane.A few relations may be expressed irectly throughparticular types of subordination of one clause toanother1:(3) I bought a book to read on the plane.This latter category is the most cohesive of thesethree devices, as the adjunct is crucially dependent onthe material in the matrix clause for its interpretation(Halliday & Hasan, 1976).
However, such structurallinking mechanisms are also the most limited inapplicability: only certain relations may be expressed1 We refer here to infinitive clauses which are grammaticallyrelated to the main clause as optional adverbials rather than ascomplements (arguments) to a verb, such as "Floyd wanted togo to the zoo".in this way and complex grammatical constraints mustbe satisfied.In this paper, we analyze a particular class ofstructural devices, including the purpose clause(exemplified in 3 above), rationale clause, andinfinitival relative, from the perspective of naturallanguage generation.
All three constructions expresskinds of "purpose": purpose clauses express the use towhich someone will put an object hat is expressed inthe main clause; rationale clauses express the overallintention behind the main clause action; infinitivalrelatives express the usual function of their NP head.2We look at what underlying semantic relations licensethe constructions, the constraints on the syntacticform of the main and adjunct clauses, and the gappingpattern of the arguments of each adjunct.
We discussthese as information eeded by the generator in orderfor it to choose and use these devices correctly anddiscuss at what stages in the generation process theinformation must be applied.We contrast our analysis with those typicallygiven from the perspective of generat ive -transformational linguistics, particularly thematicanalyses, concluding that an analysis that considers theconstruction i a particular situation and in terms of acoherent model of the world can capture theconstraints more easily.
We provide a particularexample implemented in the natural languagegeneration system MUMBLE-86 (McDonald, 1984)and show how our analysis may be generalized tosimilar structural adjunct constructions.
We furthershow that many earlier approaches to generatingcomplex sentences (Derr & McKeown, 1984; Davey,1974; Kukich, 1985; Mann & Moore, 1981) havearchitectural limitations that would keep them fromhandling these types of constructions with anygenerality.2 The notion of "purpose" is of course ambiguous between"intention" and "function".2072.
DESCRIPTION OF THE CONSTRUCTIONBefore addressing the generation of adjunctinfinitive clauses, it is necessary to define our termsand distinguish the different constructions.
We willbegin by discussing purpose clauses 3 and then contrastthem with rationale and infinitival relative clauses.2.1 Purpose clausesA purpose clause (PC) expresses the purpose orintended use of a particular object which the mainclause is in some sense "about".
It is attached as adaughter of VP and is fixed in VP final position.
Ithas the following variants, distinguished trivially bythe position of the gap: 4(4) a. I bought he shelfi \[e i to hold my cookbooks\]b. I bought he cookies i \[for Mary to eat ei\]e. I bought he cushion i \[for Mary to sit on eL1The sentences in (4) demonstrate that PC has oneobligatory gap, which can occur in any of its NPargument positions: subject position, as in (a);5 directobject position, as in (b); or prepositional objectposition, as in (c).
The gap is coreferential withCcontroIled by") the direct object of an SVO mainclause, or with the subject of a passive or unaccusativemain clause.
This pattern of antecedents has beenvariously characterized as deep structure (direct)objects (Huettner, 1987; implicitly in Rappaport &Levin, 1986); as arguments bearing the thematic roleof Theme (Faraci, 1974; Williams, 1980); or asentities whose availability for further manipulationplays a part in the semantics of the sentence (Jones,1985).A PC with its obligatory gap in non-subjectposition (like those in 4b,c above) may have anadditional subject gap, as shown in (5):(5) l j  bought it i \[ej to eat ei\]This second gap is optional, and the determinationof its antecedent is more complex than the controllerof the obligatory gap.
In (5) the PC subject iscoindexed with the matrix (main clause) subject;however, (6) shows that an indirect object takes3 The purpose clause has also been known as a "re~oactivepurpose clause", for example in Jespersen (1940).
Jespersenreserves the term "purpose clause" for what we are calling arationale clause; however, our terminology dates at least fromFaraci (1974) and is used by Bach (1982) and Jones (1985)among others.4 The symbol "e" stands for an empty category, orgap, in anargument position.
The subscripts indicate coreference.5 A PC with a subject gap is often called an objective clause.precedence over the subject as controller for tnlsgap: 6(6) a. I gave it i to Mary k \[e k to read ellb.
*lj gave it i to Mary k \[ej to read ei\]When there is no suitable antecedent in the matrix,the optional subject gap will have arbitrary orindefinite reference:(7) a.
This box i was purchased \[ear b to keep supplies in ellb.
These doughnuts i are \[ear b to eat ellThe set of antecedents for the optional subject gaphas been characterized configurationally, as the"closest" NP argument after the obligatory gap hasfound an antecedent (Chomsky, 1980) ; thematically,as the highest NP argument on a "thematic hierarchy"ranging from Goal to "arbitrary" (Nishigauchi,1984); and pragmatically, as the person in whosecontrol the Theme is at the time of the action(Ladusaw & Dowty, 1985).2.2 Rationale ClauseEasily confused with the purpose clause is therationale clause (RatC), also known as an "in orderto" clause or result clause.
RatC can be distinguishedfrom PC by the fact that RatC permit only subjectgaps, whose antecedent is (usually) the matrixsubject, rather than its object.
Note the ambiguity ofthe following:(8) Amy Lou i took Mildredj to the zoo ei/j to feed the lions.On the PC reading, Mildred is feeding the lions;on the RatC reading Amy Lou is feeding the lions(possibly using Mildred as lion food).
A RatCreading may always be paraphrased with in order,  asin (9), to rule out the PC reading:(9) Amy Lou i took Mildredj to the zoo in order el~.
j to feedthe lions.In contrast with PC, the controller of a RatC gapneed not be any argument of the main verb, but can bethe matrix predicate as a whole:(10) Mildred was thrown in the lion cage to keep her fromtalldng.6 Notice that in sentences like (6a), it is the status of Mary asindirect object which allows it to control the subject gap.Prepositional objects which are not indirect objects cannot becontrollers here, as shown in (a) below, while indirect objectswhich are not prepositional objects may still control the PCsubject ((b) below).a.
Ij got the bonesifrom Paul k \[ej/*k to feed e i to the dog\]b. lj gave Mary k this very dull book i \[e*j/k to read ei\]208Further, the RatC subject gap is optional:(i 1) Elroy killed Oscar in order for Sylvia to escape.Finally, RatC are daughters of S, and not VP, andmay therefore be preposed alone (12b) or otherwiseisolated from the VP (12c):(12) a. Helga carries a hat pin to protect herself.b.To protect herself, Helga carries a hat pin.c.What Helga does to protect herself is carry a hat pin.2.3 Inf in i t ival  Re lat ive ClausesInfinitival Relatives (IR) are superficially verysimilar to purpose clauses, especially in the patterningof their gaps.
Like tensed relatives, they aredaughters of NP; if the NP in question is in the VP,IR can be easily mistaken for PC:(13) a. IR: I bought \[ a pan i \[e to fry omelets in ei\] \]b. PC: 1 bought \[ apart i \] \[e to fry omelets in e i(14) a. IR: Elroy really needs \[ a woman i \[ e i to hoM hishana l lb.
PC: Elroy really needs \[ a woman i \] \[ e i to hold hishand lIR, like PC, have one obligatory gap in eitherobject (13a) or subject (14a) position, which iscontrolled, not by the matrix object (as in PC), but bythe head of the NP containing the relative (just as in atensed relative clause).
If the obligatory gap is inobject position, there may or not be a subject gap aswell.
This optional subject gap is controlled exactlylike the optional gap in a PC.An IR may be distinguished from a PC by makingits containing NP the subject of the matrix sentence;PC may not occur in post-subject position.
Anothertest is to make pro-nominal or definite the antecedentof the obligatory gap; IR may only have indefiniteheads.2.4 What  the construct ions  meanThree things are being communicated when oneuses a purpose clause: an event of acquisition or use,an object (the thing which is being acquired or used),and the purpose to which the object will be put.
Thatthese elements form a deliberate complex and are notindependent is made clear by attempting to omiteither of the first two elements while retaining thesyntactic form that gives the purpose clause its specialcharacter.
In (15a), the object is not explicit in thematrix clause; in (15b), the matrix does not conveyany sense of possession.
Both are ungrammatical.
(15) a.
*I went to the bookstore to read on the plane.b.
*Peter read a book for Helga to read on the plane.The infinitival relative, in contrast, has only twoelements: an object and its purpose.
Furthermore,there is no particular event that this purpose isspecific to, i.e.
no special relationship between thematrix clause in which the object appears and thepurpose xpressed by the relative.
7 Consequently, thenotion of purpose in an IR is narrower than in a PC,closer to the object's intrinsic function or unmarkeduse.The rationale clause differs from both the PC andIR by not being object centered at all.
Instead, a RatCadjunct expresses the goal which the matrix actionwas intended to bring about.Note that as the various types of infinitive clausesbecome less deeply embedded, syntactically speaking,the scope of the expressed purpose becomes wider:from the standard function of an object, expressedwithin a noun phrase (IR); to the function some agenthas  imposed on an object, expressed in the verbphrase (PC); to the intended goal of the agent inperforming the matrix activity, expressed in an S-level adjunct (RatC).3.
GENERATING THE CONSTRUCTIONSTo analyse aconstruction for generation, we mustconsider what it means, or, put another way, considerwhy a speaker would choose to use it, especially giventhe subtleties of meaning that differentiate it fromsimilar constructions.
The next consideration, andthe subject of the present section, is how theconstruction should be situated within the generationprocess: what decisions, made at what point or pointsin the process, contribute to the selection andrealization of the construction as part of an utterance?We begin with an overview of how decision making isorganized in our model of generation.
We then lookat how a descriptive treatment in terms of thematicroles could be turned into an algorithm forgeneration, and show that it fails to take advantage ofthe information that is available at the early stages ofgeneration.
A treatment tailored to generation ismarkedly simpler: creating a PC from a motivatedmessage is easier than describing the end product.7 An NP containing an infinitival relative clause ischaracteristically descriptive rather than referential; however,this has more to do with the restrictive nature of the relative thanwith the content of the matrix.2093.1 Decision Making in GenerationIn generation, unlike comprehension, thespeaker's appreciation of his situation, his goals, andthe information that he wants to communicate areself-evident, rather than needing to be discovered.The core problem in generation is making decisions:knowing what decisions must be made, whatinformation bears on them, what the alternativechoices are and how they are to be represented.Carefully controlling the timing of when specificdecisions are made offers the possibility of designingthe generation process so as to achieve a very highlevel of efficiency.
Forcing a decision too earlybefore all of the information it requires is availablemay lead to guessing and later having to back up andundo that choice and any later ones that depended onit.
Making a decision too late can mean missingopportunities to propagate information about thechoice to other decisions that it should influence.Overall, the most pivotal and least constraineddecisions should be made first, so that theirconsequences can be known soon enough to not holdup the others that are dependent on their choices.In our model of generation, this criterion has ledus to the view that decisions about he information anutterance is to convey will be made before decisionsabout syntactic form or serial order.
These earlydecisions typically include choices of wording andinfluence all aspects of a text's form.
The output of.such decisions is expressed in an exp l i c i trepresentational level we call the "message level"(McDonald & Vaughan, 1987).
Decisions reflectingthe surface ordering of the arguments are made in themapping to the next level of representation, thesurface structure.
As this structure is traversed,decisions about the particular realization of thearguments are made, morphological specialization isdone, and the text is output.3.2 Attempting to Adapt a Descript iveAnalysisIn conventional transformational=generativeanalyses, the rules governing the occurrence of gapsin the constructions we are studying are characterizedfrom a purely descriptive perspective.
They do nottry to determine which argument should be gapped,but rather where gaps may occur and what theantecedent ofeach gap will be.
Directly adapting suchan analysis to the generation task would involvecomplete specification of the surface structurefollowed by a multi-step matching algorithm torealize the gap(s).Of descriptive analyses, those couched in terms ofthematic roles seem best suited for the generation ofPC, since they allow a single description of theantecedent of the obligatory gap.
A possiblealgorithm for locating gaps in PC would be as follows(assuming that arguments of the matrix verb are stillaccessible from within the adjunct and are annotatedwith their thematic roles):..Gap the first argument in the PC which is anoccurrence of the matrix Theme.a.
If the PC subject matches the matrix Goal,gap it; orb.
if there is no matrix Goal and the PC subjectmatches the matrix Source or Location, gapit; orc.
if there is no matrix Source or Locationeither, and the PC subject is given as"unspecified", gap it.While for our purposes uch an algorithm is anim-provement over a structural description, it is stillunnecessarily complicated.
For instance, there is noneed to search the matrix clause for its theme sincewhen generating we already know trivially whichargument to obligatorily gap--the one that thepurpose clause was chosen to express the purpose of.3.3 Choosing the constructionSince, as we have discussed, there are semanticdifferences among PC, IR and RatC, the choiceamong them is more than just stylistically motivatedsyntactic variation.
This means that they will bedistinguished at the message level, since that is wherean utterance's information content is determined.
Wehave also argued that the PC and its matrix clauseform a conceptual unit centering around the objectwhose use is in question.
If that integrity is not to beleft to chance, that conceptual unit must be chosen asa piece, making the PC an atomic resource that theEnglish language provides, like adjectives or thecopular clause.At the message level then, we have a three partrelation embodied in a "realization specification" (seeexample in Section Four), which stipulates that thestatement of possession or access to an object and thestatement of the purpose of that object are to berealized as main clause and PC respectively, with theoccurrence of the object in the PC realized as a trace.The obligatory gap is thus inserted at the messagelevel, and persists into surface structure, whererealization of the two clauses as active, passive, etc.can take place without a subsequent costly calculation210of which structural position should be realized as agap.
(We will discuss the optional gap below).
Sincethe tense of the adjunct is left unspecified in therealization specification, it will surface as aninfinitive.Delaying the realization of the two clauses untilthe linguistic context governing that realiation hasbeen established provides versatility.
For example,the whole construction could be a complement toanother verb, as in (16a), or to another infinitivaladjunct, such as the rationale clause shown in (16b):(16) a. I wanted to buy a book to read on the plane.b.
I went to the bookstore to buy a book to read on theplane.One potential problem with this analysis is that thelack of prior constraint leaves open the possibility ofgenerating rather awkward constructions, uch as thefollowing:(17) A book was bought by me to read on the plane.It is our intuition, however, that the awkwardnessof this sentence comes from a lack of motivation forthe passive rather than any problem with theconstruction as a whole.
Without a motivated source,this construction would never be generated;consequently we need not address how to block it.
Wecan use this sort of argument to great advantage whenworking in a generation framework, which is one ofthe reasons why it provides a better model of howlanguage is actually produced than the usual linguisticstrategy of free generation with surface level filters.The obligatory gap in the PC can (and should) behandled at the message level because (1) at that pointall the information it requires is available, (2) nofurther information bearing on the identification ofthe argument to be gapped will become available laterduring realization (i.e.
there is nothing gained bywaiting), and (3) the means for carrying out thegapping operation are at hand (see next section).
Theoptional subject gap is a different matter.
This gap islicensed only if its antecedent is explicitly mentionedin the main clause, a fact that is not known at themessage level.
(More to the point, having known theinformation when the message was being assembledwas unlikely to have changed the decisions that weremade; consequently there is no utility to making itexplicit there.
)Since the information eeded to consider gappingthe PC's subject is not available until the matrix clausehas been realized, the gapping operation must be doneat the level of surface structure rather than themessage level.
By relying on the fact that only well-formed, motivated messages are ever going to beconstructed, a surface-level rule for the operation canbe compactly stated: "gap if the subject is mentionedin the matrix or is arbitrary (and non-emphatic).
''8The single gap of a rationale clause is handledvery much like the optional gap of the purpose clause.The planner is responsible for the overall relationshipbetween an action and an intended result of thataction.
When the message is converted to a surfacestructure, it is realized as a main and a subordinateclause; the main clause, as the head of the bundle, isbuilt first, and the RatC is then attached either beforeor after it.
During traversal of the tree, the RatCsubject will be gapped if it matches the main clausesubject or the main clause as a whole.
Once again, theinformation eeded to determine whether to gap isnot available until late in the process.4.
EXAMPLEIn this section we describe the particulars of ourimplementation of purpose clauses in the naturallanguage generation system, Mumble.
As wediscussed in the previous section, this constructionoriginates from a three part relation between anevent, an object, and its purpose.
At the messagelevel, the interface to Mumble, the schema shownbelow in Figure One takes these three arguments andbuilds a realization specification for a purpose clause:define-specification-schemaobject-centered-event-&-purpose(object event object-purpose)(let ((matrix (instantiate-specificationevent))(adjunct (instantiate-specificationobject-purpose)))(add-further-specification matrix:specification adjunct:attachment-function 'purpose-of)(locate-argument-&-force-to-a-traceobject :containing-rspec adjunct) ))FIGURE ONE8 "Emphatic" refers to both marked stress, as in (a), or anunusual situation, as in (b), where the possessor is not theintended user:a. I bought hat dinosaur for me tO play with (so keep youroff it: )b. I bought David a dinosaur for rne to play with (when 1 goover to his house).In a generation model, which assumes the generator is workingin the service of some coherent underlying program, theinformation of when something is emphatic, or marked, isalways know and can be made available to the linguisticprocesses, and would be necessary in any event in order togenerate speech.211Figure Two shows the pretty printing of therealization specification created by this schema inorder to generate the following text:"Floyd bought Helga a book m read on the plane.
"(event-bundle:head ( : rea l i zat ion- fn  buyI : arguments (#<Floyd> #<Helga>#<book> ) )~:accessor ies  ( tense-modal  past  ): fu r ther -spec i f i ca t ions( ( : spec i f i cat ion(event-bundle:head ( : rea l i zat ion- fn  read: arguments( #<Helga>(:trace #<book>)) ): fu r ther -spec i f i ca t ions(#<on- locat ion #<read ...>#<plane> > )5- :at tachment- fn  purpose-o f  ) ) )FIGURE TWOIn order to make the example clearer, we haveused the" short hand notation #< ... > to indicate anunderlying object from which a specification will beplanned, rather than writing out its specification i allits detail.
In the context of an actual underlyingprogram generating from internally modeled objects,these could be unplanned specifications of objects,with planning and realization interleaved.
However,as this example presently runs in our "stand-alone"interface, all the details are spelled out in therealization specification.The bundle representation allows the planner togroup component parts of the utterance.
The head ofthe bundle (#1) is a constraint expression specifyingthe matrix clause.
Accessories (#2) containlinguistically marked information, such as tense andNP number.
The further-specification field (#3)specifies the adjunct.
Note that the argument for#<book> (#4) has already been constrained to be atrace.
The attachment function (#5) indicates how thefurther specification is related to the head.
In thisinstance the attachment function is the particularattachment point PURPOSE-OF (shown in FigureThree), which splices a new element, labeled FOR-INFINITIVE, into the surface structure as the lastelement of the VP.
(def ine-at tachment-po int  purpose-of:splice: reference- labels  (vp):l ink (last):new-slot (for- inf init ive) )FIGURE THREEEvery specification has a realization function anda list of arguments.
In general, the realizationfunction is a class of choices which defines the set ofinitial trees (Joshi, 1985) which can realize thespecification.
The choices are annotated with thegrammatical nd contextual characteristics whichdistinguish their use.
For example READ (#6),through a curried realization class (shown in FigureFour), uses the class AGENT-VERB-THEME 9(de f ine -cur r ied - rea l i za t ion -c lass  Read(agent theme): c lass agent -verb - theme((verb "read") ))(def ine- rea l i zat ion~c lass  Agent -verb - theme(agent verb theme)( ( (bas ic -c lause-svo agent verb theme)(clause) () )( ( for - in f in i t ive-svo  agent verb theme)( for- inf in i t ive)  () )( ( re la t ive-c lause-svo  re l -pro  (agent)trace (agent)verbtheme) )( re lat ive-c lause)(arg-same-as-head(agent) )  )( ( re la t ive -c lause-svo  te l -pro(theme)agentverbt race(theme))  )( re lat ive-c lause)(arg-same-as-head(theme))  )))FIGURE FOURThe message is realized in stages.
First, the headof the bundle (#1) is realized by making a choice in itsclass (similar to that for READ in Figure Four) andbuilding the surface structure representation for thatchoice, shown below in Figure Five.\[SENTENCE\]clause~ attachment-point\[SUBJECT\] ~-\[PREDICATEI purpose-o!#,: FLOYD / vp ~\[VERB\] ~ \[INDIR-OBJI ._t~\[DIR -OBJ\]"buy" #,: HELGA ~, #,~ BOOK .~FIGURE FIVE9 We use thematic roles as argument names in classesheuristically; we are not committing ourselves atthis point o athematic analysis of argument structure.212The accessories (#2) are then processed, which inthis example sets the tense.
Next the furtherspecification is spliced in using the indicatedattachment point.
The surface structure is traversed,and embedded arguments are realized as they arereached.
The result of these operations and thetraversal up to the subject of the adjunct is shown inFigure Six.
Note that the text of the main clause hasbeen morphologically specialized and output as a sideeffect of the traversal, the surface structure for theargument NPs has been chosen and built, and the tracefor the obligatory gap is already in place.At this point the optional subject gap of theadjunct is considered.
Since "Helga" is available as anexplicit argument of the matrix clause, the subject isrealized as a trace and the "for" is supressed.5.
RELATED WORK IN GENERATIONDerr & McKeown (1984) directly address thegeneration of complex sentences; however, theyrestrict the criteria for combining propositions tofocus and shared arguments.
While it is fairly clearthat they could extend their analysis to allowcombinations based on relations between propositionsthat are expressible as explicit lexical connectives, it isunclear as to whether they could as easily extend it torelations expressed structurally: They assume that thepropositions are independently determined beforepossibilities for combinations are considered.
Whilea special device could determine whether theparticular elation licensing a PC was intended, theywould lose the advantage we gain from letting theinitial choice of object and construction be madesimultaneously.
They would have to use an algorithmsuch as the one described in the thematic analysisabove to determine the gapping pattern of the adjunct.Davey (1974) and Kukich (1985) both simplifytheir approach to the problem by completelypredetermining how propositions may be combinedinto complex sentences.
Kukich uses predefinedphrases and Davey a set of rules particular to theannotated move list of the tic-tac-toe game he isgenerating from.
While these approaches provide anopportunity for choosing structures uch as purposeclauses early and as one piece, they are seriouslylacking in generality and flexibility.
Both assume alimited domain where all of the possible propositionsand their plausible combinat ions can bepredetermined.In the Knowledge Delivery System (KDS) Mann& Moore (1981) use a hillclimbing algorithm todetermine which propositions hould be combinedinto complex sentences.
The algorithm assumes theinformation to be conveyed has been broken intokernel sized chunks and filtered to delete anyrepetitious or inferable information.
This has thedrawback that once the original information has beenfragmented into kernels, the original relationsbetween them have been lost.
The aggregation rulesmust consequently use shared arguments andpredefined templates to combine the kernels intosentence sized chunks.
This causes the same problemsas those described for Derr & McKeown:determining the gapping pattern in the adjunct clauseand retaining generality.\[SENTENCE\]c lause\[SUBJECTI --4~ \[TNS\] ~ \[PREDICATE\] <past>np S V P ~.
,~.
.
,~.
.
.
.
.
.
, .
, .
.~\[HEAD\] \[VERBI .....~INDIR-OBJ\] ~ \[DIR -OBJ\]"Floyd" np b-, j\[HEADI"Helga"Text output so far:Floyd bought Helga a book\[FOR-INFINITIVE\]np c lause\[HEAD\]"book" \[FOR-SUBJECT\] "=---I~\[PREDICATEI\[VERB\] .__.~\[DIR -OBJt .
.
.
"head" traceFIGURE SIX2136.
CONCLUSIONIn this paper we have shown the importance ofcarefully choosing the framework in which to couchone's analysis.
For the generation of adjunct clauses,a computational pproach which assumes a coherentunderlying world model and text planner has clearadvantages over a descriptive representation.
Wehave also shown advantages of our model  ofgeneration: Our use of a message level distinct fromand prior to the surface structure representational lows decisions to be made when germaneinformation is most naturally available.7.
REFERENCESBach, Emmon (1982), "Purpose Clauses and Control."
InJacobson & Pullum, eds., The Nature of SyntacticRepresentation, Reidel, Dordreeht, pp.
35-57.Chomsky, Noam (1980), "On Binding."
Linguistic Inquiry11.1, MIT Press, Cambridge.Davey, Anthony (1974), Discourse Production.
EdinburghUniversity Press, Edinburgh, U.K. "Using Focus toGenerate Complex and Simple Sentences."
Proceedings ofColing-84, pp.319-326.Faraci, Robert A.
(1974), Aspects of the Grammar ofInfinitives and For Phrases.
MIT Doctoral Dissertation(unpublished).Halliday, M.A.K.
& Ruqaiya Hasan (1976), Cohesion inEnglish.. London: Longman Group Ltd.Huettner, Alison K. (1987), Adjunct Infinitives: An Exegesis.PhD Dissertation, University of Massachusetts, Amherst,Massachusetts, forthcoming.Jespersen, Otto (1940), A Modern English Grammar onHistorical Principles.
G. Allen & Unwin, London.Jones, Charles (1985), Syntax and Thematics of InfinitivalAdjuncts.
Phi3 Dissertation, University of Massachusetts,Amherst, Massauchusetts.Joshi, Aravind (1985), "Tree Adjoining Grammars: Howmuch context-sensitivity s required to provide reasonablestructural descriptions?"
In Dowty, Karttunen, & Zwicky(eds.
), Natural Language Parsing, Cambridge UniversityPress, Cambridge.Kukich, Karen (1985), "Explanation Structures in XSEL.
"Proceedings ofthe 23rd Annual Meeting of the Associationfor Computational Linguistics, pp.
228-237.Ladusaw, William & David Dowry (i985), "Towards a FormalSemantic Account of Thematic Roles."
Unpublishedmanuscript.Mann, William & James Moore (1981), "Computer Generationof Multi-paragraph English Text."
American Journal ofComputational Linguistics, Vol.
7, No.l, Jan.-Mar.,pp.
17-29.McDonald David D. (1984), "Description Directed Control: Itsimplications for natural language generation."
In Cercone(ed.
), Computational Linguistics, Plenum Press, pp.
403-424; reprinted in Grosz, Sparck Jones, & Webber,Readings in Natural Language Processing, MorganKaufman Publishers, California, 1986.McDonald David D. & Marie M. Vaughan (1987), "Argumentsfor a Message Level in Natural Language Generation.
"Submitted to UCAI-87.Nishigauchi, Taisuke (I984), "Control and the ThematicDomain."
Language 60, Linguistic Society of America,Waverly Press, Baltimore.Rappaport, Malka & Beth Levin (1986), "What to do withTheta Roles."
Lexicon Project Working Papers #11, MITCenter for Cognitive Science, Cambridge.Ritehie, Graeme (1984), "A Rational Reconstruction f theProteus Sentence Planner."
Proceedings of Coling-84, pp.327-329.Williams, Edwin (1980), "Predication."
Linguistic Inquiry11.1, MIT Press, Cambridge.214
