TEMPORAL ONTOLOGY IN NATURAL LANGUAGEsMarc Moen-~ and Mark Steedman tCentre for Cognitive Science *t and Dept.
of AT t, Univ.
~ Edinb-rgh,and Dept.
of Computer and Information Science, Univ.
of Pennsylvania tABSTRACTA semantics of linguistic ategories like tense, aspect, and cer-tain temporal adverbials, and a theory of their use in definingthe temporal relations of events, both require a more complexstructure on the domain underlying the meaning representa-tions than is commonly assumed.
The paper proposes anontology based on such notions as causation and consequence,rather than on purely temporal primitives.
We claim that anymanageable logic or other formal system for natural languagetemporal descriptions will have to embody such an ontology,as will any usable temporal database for knowledge aboutevents which is to be interrogated using natural language.1.
IntroductionIt has usually been assumed that the semantics of temporalexpressions i directly related to the linear dimensional con-caption of time familiar from high-school physics - that is, toa model based on the number-line.
However, there are goodreasons for suspecting that such a conception is not the onethat our linguistic ategories are most directly related to.When-clauses provide an example of the mismatch betweenlinguistic temporal categories and a semantics based on suchan assumption.
Consider the following examples:(1) When they built the 39th Street bridge...(a) ...a local architect drew up the plans.Co) ...they used the best materials.
(c) ...they solved most of their traffic problems.To map the temporal relations expressed in these examplesonto linear time, and to try to express the semantics ofwhen interms of points or intervals (poss~ly associated with events),would appear to imply either that when is multiply ambiguous,allowing these points or intervals to be temporally related in atleast three different ways, or that the relation expressedbetween main and when-clauses is one of "approximate coin-cidence".
However, neither of these tactics explains the pecu-liarity of utterances like the following:(2) #When my car broke down, the sun set.The oddity of this statement seems to arise because the when-clause predicates something more than mere temporal coin-cidence, that is, some contingent relation such as a causa/linkbetween the two events.
Of course, our knowledge of theworld does not easily support such a link.
This aspect of thesentence's meaning must stem from the sense-meaning ofwhen, because parallel utterances using just after, at approxi.mate/y the same t/me as, and the like, which predicate purelytemporal coincidence, are perfectly felicitous.We shall claim that the different emporal relations conveyedin examples (1)do not arise from any sense-ambiguity ofwhen, or from any "fuzziness" in the relation that it expressesbetween the times refered to in the clauses it conjoins, but fromthe fact that the meaning of when is not primarily temporal atan.
We shall argue that when has single sense-meaningreflecting its role of establishing a temporal focus.
Theapparent diversity of meanings arises from the nature of thisreferent and the organisation of events and states of affairs inepisodic memory under a relation we shall call "contingency",a term related to such notions as causality, rather than temporalsequenfiality.
This contingent, non-temporal relation alsodetermines the ontology of the elementary propositions denot-ing events and states of wl~ch episodic memory is composed,and it is to these that we turn first.2.
Temporal and Aspectual CategoriesUtterances of English sentences can, following Vendler, beclassified into temporal/aspecmal types on the basis of thetenses, aspects and adverbials with which they can cooccur (cf.Dowry, 1979).
This "espocmal type" refers to the relation toother happenings in the discourse that a speaker predicates ofthe particular happening that heir utterance describes.
Thus anutterance of Harry reached the top is usually typical of whatwe will call a "culmination" -- informally, an event which thespeaker views as accompanied bya transition to a new state ofthe world.
This new state we will refer to as the "consequentstate" of the event.
Harry hiccupped is not usually viewed byspeakers as leading to any specific change of state.
It typifieswhat we call "point" expressions, that is punctual events whoseconsequences are not at issue.Similarly, Harry climbed typifies what we will call for obviousreasons a "process": such utterances describe an event asextended in time but not characterised by any particular con-clusion or culmination.
In contrast.
Harry climbed to the toptypically describes a state of affah~ that also extends in timebut that does have a particular culmination associated with it atwhich a change of state takes place.
We classify such an utter-ance as a "culminated process".
Finally, Harry is at the toptypically describes a state.Thus we can interpret Vendler as saying that a part of themeaning of any utterance of a sentence is one of a smallnumber of temporal/aapectual profiles distinguished on a smallnumber of dimensions.
They can be summarized asin Figure1.It is important to be clear that this claim concerns entencesused in a conte~, sense-mearLings of sentences orverbs in iso-lation are usually compatible with several (or even all possible)Vendlerian profiles, as Dowry and Verkuyl have pointed out -hence the frequent use of the word "typically" above.
Thedetails of this taxonomy and the criteria according to whichutterances can be categorised are therefore less important than1 Readen familiar with Vendler's work will realise that wehave changed his terminology.
We have done so both for notationalconvenience and to avoid the considerable confusion that has arisenconcerning the precise meaning of the old terms.+conseq-conseqEVENTS STATESatomic extendedHarry left earlyAt six, John arrivedSandra hi.uppedPaul winkedSue built a sandcastleThe ice melted completelyMax worked in the gardenAlice played the pianoJohn knows FrenchHe was in the kitchenHg~elthe observation that each pr i~t ive ntity of a given type, suchas the culmination-event of Har~'s reaching the top, carriesintimations of other associated events and states, such as theprocess by which the culmination was achieved, and the conse-quent state that followed.
What linguistic devices like tenses,aspects, and temporal/aspectual adverbials appear to do is totransform entities of one type into these other "contingently"related entities, or to turn them into composites with thoserelated entities.The temporal/aspecmal ontology that underlies thesephenomena can be defined in terms of the state-transition net-work shown in Figure 2.
The semantics of tenses, as-pecmalauxiliaries and temporal adverbials i defined in terms of func-tions which map categories onto other categories, and havingthe important characteristic of "coez~ing" their argument to beof the appropriate ype.
Both the possibilities for coercing aninput proposition, and the possibilities for the output category.are defined by the transition et.
In addition, the felicity of aparticular transition is conditional on support from knowledgeand context.Consider, for example, the combination of a culminated pro-cess expression with a for-adverbial, as in(3) Sue played the sonata for a few minutes.A for.adverbial coerces its input to be of the process variety.According to the network in Figure 2, such a transition is feli-citoos if the culmination point associated with the event ofp/ay/ng the sonata is "stripped off'.
As a result, there is noimplication in (3) that Suefln/shed playing the sonata.Another routz through the network is possible in order toaccount for examples with for-adverbials: the culminated pro-cess, like any other event, can be viewed as an unstructured"point".
A transition to turn it into a process then results in aniteration of occurrences at which Sue plays the sonata.
Thisroute through the network seems to be ruled out for(3) because it finds no support in our knowledge about sonatasand about how long they typically last.
It does result, however,in a likely interpretation for a sentence ~ke(4) Sue played the sonata for about eight hours.EVENTS JIatomic \[ extended \[I IJ +conseq.
\[ ~ CULMINATION CULMINATED consequencesI I  A ~ / PRoczss .t 1/ / f_.o.s.,.-/J J/ t"POINT .
,~ .
.
, .
_ __~.
.
.
.~  PROCESS~--eration} ~ (in progress)J JI "Figure 2Not all aspecmal/temporal adverbials expressing a time spanhave the same functional type.
/n-adverbials, for example,coerce their input to be a culminated process expression.
Thismeans that combination with a culmination expression requiresthe transition to be made to the culminated process node.According to the aspe~mal network in Figure 2 this transitionis a felicitous one ff the context allows a preparatmy process tobe associated with the culmination, asin (5):(5) Laura reached the top in two hours.The in-adverbial then defines the length of this preparatoryperiod.Since the arcs describe what the world has to be like for transi-tions m be made felicitously, it is obvious that here are expres-sions that will resist certain changes.
For example, it will behard to find a context in which an in-adverbial can be com-bined with a culmination expression Ytke Harry accideraallyspilled his coffee, since it is hard to imagine acontext in whicha preparatory process can be associated with an involuntaryact.A similar problem arises in connection with the followingexample:(6) John ran in a few minutesThe process expression John ran has to be changed into a cul-minated process expression before combination with the in-adverbial ispossible.
One way in which the network in Figure2 will permit he change from a process to a culminated pro-cess is ff the context allows a culmination point m be associ-ated with the process itself.
General world knowledge makesthis rather hard for a sentence like John ran, except in the casewhere John habitually runs a particular distance, such as ameasured mile.
If the in-adverbial had conveyed a specificduration, such as in four minutes, then the analysis would makesense, as Dowty has poimed out.
However, the unspecific in afew minutes continues to resist his interpretation.However, another route is also possible for (6): the process ofJohn running can be made into an atomic point' and thenceinto a culmination i its own right.
This culmination can thenacquire apreparatory process of its own -- which we can thinkof as preparing to run -.
to become the culminated processwhich the adverbial requires.
This time, there is no conflictwith the content of the adverbial, so this reading is the mostaccessible of the two.Progressive auxiliaries coerce their input to be a processexpression.
The result of the application is a progressive state,which describes the process as being in progress.
This meansthat, when a culmination expression like reach the top is usedwith a progressive, a transition path has to be found from theculmination node to the process node.
According to the transi-tion network, this involves first adding a preparatory process tothe culmination, and then stripping off the culmination point.As a result, the progressive sentence only describes thepreparation as ongoing and no longer asserts that the originalculmination even occurred.
There would be no contradictionin continuing(7) Harry was reaching the topasin(8) Harry was roaching the top but he slippedand fell before he got there.?
As Moens & Steedman (1986) point out, the fact that accord-ing to the present theory, progressives coerce their input o be aprocess, so that any associated culmination is su'ipped awayand no longer conuibutes to truth conditions, provides a reso-lution of the "imperfective paradox" (Dowry 1979), withoutappealing to theory-external consmaets like "inertia worlds".A porfect, as in(9) Harry has reached the toprefers to the consequent state of the culminetion.
It requires itsinput category to be either a culmination or a culminated pro-cess, and maps this expression i to its consequent state.
Infor-mal evidence that it does so can be obtained by noticing thatperf~ts are infelicitous if the salient consequences are not inforce.
The most obvious of these consequences for(9) is thatHahn still be at the top, although as usual there are other possi-bilities.Since the transition etwork includes loops, it will allow us todefine indefinitely complex temporal/aspectoal categories, liketi~ one evoked by the following sentence:(10) It took me two days to play the "Minute Waltz"in less than sixty seconds for more than an hour.The culminated process expression play the Minute Waltz cancombine sn'aightforwardly with the in-adverbial, indicatinghow long it takes to reach the culmination point of finishingplaying the Mimae Waltz.
Combination with the for.adverbialrequires this expression to be mined into a process - the mostobvious route through the network being that through the pointnode.
The resulting culminated process expression describesthe iterated process of playing the Minute Waltz in less than$ix~ seconds as lasting for more than an hour.
The expressionit took me..., finally, is like an in-adverbial in that it is lookingfor a culminated process expression to combine with.
It findsone in the expression to play the Minute Waltz in less thansixty seconds for more than an hour but combination is ham-pered by the fact that there is a conflict in the length of time theadverbials describe.
In the case of (10), the whole culminatedprocess is instead viewed as a culmination i its own right (viathe path through the point node).
Knowledge concerning suchmusical feats then supplies an appropriate preparatory processwhich we can think of as practicising.
The adverbial/t tookme two days then defines the temporal extent of this prepara-tory process needed to reach the point at which repeatedlyplaying that piece of music so fast for such a considerablelength of time became a newly acquired skilLThis basic framework thus allows for a unified semantics of awide variety of aspectual dverbials, the progressive, the per-fect, and iterative xpressions in English.
It is also used toexplain the effect of bare plurals and certain varieties of nega-tion on the overall temporal structure of discourse (Moensforthcoming).All of the permissible transitions between aspectual categoriesillustrated in Figure 2 appear to be related to a single elemen-tsry contingency-based vent structure which we call a"nucleus".
A nucleus is defined as a structure comprising aculmination, an associated preparatory process, and a conse-quentstate, hcanberepresented~.or ia l ly  as in~gure3.
2preparatory process consequent stateI I I I I I /111111111111111111111111111111111111IculminationFigure 3Any or all of these elements may be compound: the prepara-tion may consist of a number of discrete steps, for example thestages of climbing, having lunch or whatever, leading to theculmination of reaching the top.
The consequent s ate mayalso be compound.
Most importantly, we shall see that itincludes the further events, if any, that are in the samesequence of contingently related events as the culmination.Similarly, the culmination may itself be a complex event -such as the entire culminated process of climbing a mountain.
(In this case, the associated preparatory process and conse-quant state will be quite different ones to those internal to theculminated process itself.)
The device is intended to embodythe proposal that when we hear about an event like climbing amoun~a/n in conjunction with some coercive aspectuzlcategory which forces it to undergo a transition, then the alter-natives that are available are:a) to decompose the core event into a nucleus and to makea transition to one of the componants, such as theprepuratory activity of climbing or to the consequentstate of having climbed the mountain; orb) to treat he entire event as a culmination, to c(m~oose itinto a nucleus with whatever preparation and conse-quences the context provides for the activity of climbinga mountain, and to make the transition to either one ofthose.We further claim that those are the on/y alternatives.The concept of a nucleus not only explains the Iransitions ofFigure 2, but also provides an answer to the question raised inthe introduction concerning the apparent vagaries in the mean-ing of when-clauses.3.
When-clausesThe aspects and temporal/aspecmal adverbials consideredabove all act to modify or change the aspecmal class of thecore proposition, subject o the limits imposed by the networkin Figure 2, which we claim is in turn determined by the organ-isation of episodic memory.
However.
tenses and certainother varieties of adverbial adjuncts have a rather differentcharacter.
Tense is widely regarded as an anaphoric ategory.requiring a previously established temporal referent.
Thereferent for a present ense is usually the time of speec.~ butthe referent for a past tense must be explicitly established.Such a referent is usually established using a second type of"temporal" adverbial, such as once upon a time.
attire o'clocklast Saturday, while I was cleaning my teeth, or when I wokeup this morning.Most accounts of the anaphoric nature of tense have invokedReichenbach's (1947) trinity of underlying times, and his con-cept of the "positional" use of the reference time which he2 A similar ~ent structure isproposed by Passonneau (1987).called "R".
Under these accounts (reviewed in Steedman,1982), the adjuncts establish a reference time to which thereference lime of a main clause and subsequent same-tensedclauses may attach or refer, in much the same way that variousspecies of full noun phrases establish referants for pronouns.However, in one respect, the past tense does not behave like apronotm.
Use of a pronoun such as "she" does not change thereferent o which a subsequent use of the same pronoun mayrefer, whereas using a past tense may.
In the following exam-ple.
the teml~al  reference point for sentence (b) seems tohave moved on from the time established by the adjunct in (a):( I I )  a.
At exactly five o'clock, Harry walked in.b.
He sat down.This fact has caused theorists uch as Dowry (1986), Hinrichs(1984) and Partee (1984) to stipulate that the ref~,~,ce timeautonomously advances during a narrative.
However.
such astipulation (besides creating problems for the theory vis-~i-v/sthose narratives where reference time seems not to advance)seems to be unnecessmT, since the amount by which itadvances still has to be determined by context.
The concept ofa nucleus that was invoked above to explain the varieties ofaspecmal categories offers us exactly what we need to explainboth the fact of the advance and its extent.
We simply need toassume that a main clause event such as Harry walked in i sinterpreted as an entire nucleus, complete with consequentstate, for by definition the consequent s ate includes whateverother events were contingent upon Harry walking in, includingwhatever he did next.
Provided that the context (or theheerer's assumptions about he world) suppolls the idea that asubsequent main clause identifies this next contingent event,then it will provide the temporal referent for that main clause.In its ability to refer to entities that have not been explicitlymentioned, but whose existence has merely been implied bythe presence of an entity that has been mentioned, tenseappears more like a definite NP like the mus/c in the followingexample than like a p~o,~oun, asWebber (1987) points out.
(12) I went to a party last night.
The music was wonderful.A similar move is all that is required to explain the puzzle con-cerning the apparent ambiguity of when-clauses with which thepaper began.
A when-clause behaves rather like one of thosephrases that are used to explicitly change topic, like and yourfather in the following example from Isard, (1975):(13) And your father, how is he?A when-clause introduces a novel temporal referent into focuswhose unique identifiability in the bearer's memory is simi-larly presupposed.
However, again the focussed temporalreferent is an entire nucleus, and again an event main clausecan attach itself anywhere within this structure that worldknowledge will allow.
For example, consider the example (1)with which we began (repeated here):(14) When they built the 39th Street bridge...(a) ...a local architect drew up the plans.Co) ...they used the best materials.
(c) ...they solved most of their traffic problems.Once the core event of the when-clause has been identified inmemory, the hearer has the same two alternatives describedbefore: either it is decomposed into a preparatory process, aculmination and a consequent state, or the entire event isueated as itself the culmination of another nucleus.
Either4way, once the nucleus is established, the reference time of themain clause has to be situated somewhere within it - the exactlocation being determined by knowledge of the entitiesinvolved and the episode in question.
So in example (a) theentire culminated process of building the bridge becomes aculmination (via a path in Figure 2 which passes through the"point" node) which is associated in a nucleus with prepara-tions for, and consequences of, the entire business, as in Figure4:they prepare they have builtto build the bridgeI I I I I I I I I /1111111 1 I I I I / / / I / / / / / / / / / / IIthey buildthe bridgeFigure 4The drawing up of the plans is then, for reasons to do withknowledge of the world, situated in the preparatory phase.In example (b), in contrast, the building of the bridge isdecomposed into a quite different preparatory process of build-ing, a quite different culmination of completing the bridge endsome consequences which we take to be also subtly distinctf~rom those in the previous case, as in Figure 5.
The use of thebest materials i then, as in (a), situated in the preparatory pro-cess - but it is a different one this time.they build they have completedthe bridgeI / I / / / I / / / I / / I / / / / / / / / / I / / / / / / / / / / /Ithey complete thebridgeFigure SExample (c) is like (a) in giving rise to the nucleus in Figure 4,but pragmatics demands that the main clause be situated some-where in the consequent state of building the bridge.Thus, a main clause vent can potentially be situated anywherealong this nucleus, subject o support f3"om knowledge aboutthe precise events involved, But example (2) is still strange,because it is so hard to think of any relation that is supported inthis way:(15) #When my car broke down, the sun setThe when-clause d fines anucleus, consisting of whatever pro-cess we can think o f  as leading up to the car's break-down, thebreak-down itself and its possible or actual consequences.
It isnot clear where along this nucleus the culmination of the sunset could be situated: it is not easy to imagine that it is a func-tional part of the preparatory process typically associated witha break-down, and it is similarly hard to imagine that it can bea part of the consequent s ate, so under most imaginable cir-cumstances, the utterance r mains bizarre.The constraints when places on possible inteqa~etations f therelation between subordinate and main clause are thereforequite strong.
First, general and specific knowledge about heevent described in the when-clause has to support he associa-tion of a complete nucleus with it.
Secondly.
world knowledgealso has to support the contingency relation between the eventsin subordinate end main clause.
As a result, many constructedexamples ound strange or are considered to be infelicitous,because too much context has to be imported to make sense ofthem.In all of the cases discussed so far, the main clause has been anevent of some variety.
When the main clause is stative, as inthe following examples, the effect is much the same.
That is tosay, the when-clause establishes a nucleus, end the stative isasserted or , - ,ehed wherever world knowledge permits withinthe nucleus.
The only difference is that statives are bydefinition unbounded with respect o the reference time thatthey are predicated of, end outlast it.
It follows that they canusually fit in almost anywhere, nd therefore tend not to coercethe when-clause, or to induce the causal/contingent interpreta-lions that we claim characteriso the corresponding sentenceswith events as main clauses:(16) When they built that bridge.. l  was still a young lad....my grandfather had been dead for several years....my aunt was having an affair with the milkman....my father used to play squash.However, world knowledge may on occasion constrain therelation of a stative main clause, and force it to attach to ordescribe asituation holding over either the preparatory processor the consequent state of the subordinate clause, as in the fol-lowing examples (cf.
Smith 1983):(17) When Harry broke Sue's vase,...she was in a good mood....she was in a bad mood.4.
Towards a Formal RepresentationWe have argued in this paper that a principled end unifiedsemantics of natural language categories like tense, aspect andaspectual/temporal adverbials requires an ontology based oncontingency rather than temporality.
The notion of "nucleus"plays a crucial role in this ontology.
The process of temporalreference involves reference to the appropriate part of anucleus, where appropriateness i  a function of the inherentmeaning of the core expression, of the coercive nature of co-occurring linguistic expressions, end of particular end generalknowledge about he area of discourse.The identification f the correct ontology is also a vital prelim-inary to the construction and management of temporal data-bases.
Effective exchange of information between people andmachines i easier if the data structures that are used to orgen-ise the information i the machine correspond in a natural wayto the conceptual structures people use to organize the sameinformation.
In fact, the penalties for a bad fit between data-structures and human concepts are usually crippling for anyattempt to provide natural language interfaces for data basesystems.
Information extracted from natural language text canonly be stored to the extent hat it fits the preconceived for-mats, usually resulting in loss of information.
Conversely.such data structures cannot easily be queried using naturallanguage if there is a bad fit between the conceptual structureimplicit in the query and the conceptual structure of the data-base.The "contingency-based" ontology that we are advocating herehas a number of implications for the construction a d manage-ment of such temporal databases.
Rather than a homogeneous5database of dated points or intervals, we should partition it intodistinct sequences of causally or otlun~vise contingently relatedsequences of events which we will call "episodes", each lead-ing to the satisfaction of a particular goal or intention.
Thispartition will quite incidentally define a partial temporal order-ing on the events, but the primary purpose of such sequences imore related to the notion of a plan of action or an explanationof an event's occurrence than to anything to do with time itself.It follows that only events that are continganfly related neces-sarily have well defined temporal relations in memory.A first atxempt to investigate this kind of system was reportedby Steedman (1982), using a program that verified queriesagainst a database structured according to some of the princi-ples outlined above.
These principles can be described usingKowalski's event-calculus (Kowalski & Sergot 1986).
In thisf~amework, there are primitives called events, the occurrenceof which usually implies the existence of periods of time overwhich states hold.
In the terms of the present paper, these"events" are either "points" or "culminations" (depending onwhether they are in fact associated with consequent s ates -see section 2).
For example, in the world of academic promo-lions which Kowalski and Sea'got take as an example, an evantdescription like John was promoted from the rank of lecturerto the rank of professor is a culmination which implies thatthere was a period of time, ended by this event, during whichJohn had the rank of lecturer, and there is a period of time,started by that same event, during which John had the rank ofprofessor.The events in the event calculus are given unique identifiers,but are not necessarily associated with absolute time.
More-over, they can be partially ordered with respect to each other,or occur simultaneously.
Events themselves may also bedescribed only partially;, later information can be added whenit becomes available.
These features, which they share withthe corresponding primitives in a number of other formalisms,such as those of McDermott (1982), Allen (1984) and Lansky(1986), an constitute an advance over temporal representationformalisms based on the situation calculus (McCarthy & Hayes1969)oAlthough Kowalski's events are undecomposable points orculminations, they can be used to describe extended eventssuch as our processes, in terms of a pa i r  identifying their start-ing point and to the point at which they stop (in the case ofprocesses) or their culmination (in the case of culminatedprocesses).
This means that a process expression like John ranwill introduce two events, one indicating the start of the pro-cess and one indicating the endpoint.
Just like the point eventsconsidered by Kowalski and Sergot, these events have certainproperties or states associated with them.
The starting-point ofthe process referred to by uttering John ran marks the begin-ning of a progressive state that we refer to when we use a pro-gressive like John is running, a state which is terminated bythe corresponding endpoint event.This duality between events and states (which was alsoexploited in Steedman, 1982), is very useful for representingthe kind of ontology that we have argued natural languagecategories reflect.
But one shortcoming of Kowalski's eventcalculus is the absence of other than temporal relationsbetween the events.
The best worked out event-based modelthat takes into account causal as well as temporal relations isLansky's (1986).
The representation she presents is based onGEM (Lamsky & Owieki 1983), a tool for the specification andverification of concurrent programs.
GEM retries events andexplicitly represents both their causal and temporal relations.It also provides mechanisms for structuring events into so-called "locations of activity", the boundaries on these locationsbeing boundaries of causal access - as in our episodes.
In Lan-sky (1986), the GEM tool is used to build event-basedknowledge representations for use in planners.
She suggeststhe use of three accessibility relations: temporal precedence(<), causality or contingency (@).
and simultaneity ($).These relations have the following properties:< : irreflexive, antisymmetric, transitive@ : irreflexive, antisymmetric, nlransitive$ : reflexive, symmetric, transitiveBecause we follow Lansky in making thecausality/contingency relation @ intransitive, we avoid certainnotorious problems in the treatment of when-clauses and per-fects, which arise because the search for possible consequencesof an event has to be restricted to theftrs~ event on the chain ofcontingencies.
Thus, when (18a) and (b) are asserted, it wouldbe wrong to infer (c):(18) (a) When John left.
Sue cried(b) When Sue cried, her mother got upset(c) When John left, Sue's mother got upsetThe reason is exactly the same as the reason that it would bewrong to infer that Sue's mother got upset because John left,and has nothing to do with the purely temporal relations ofthese events.
It should also be noted that the notion of causal-ity or contingency used here (in line with Lansky's proposals)is weaker than that used in other representation schemes (forexample that of McDermott 1982) in that causality is heredecoupled from eventuality: if an event A stands in a causalrelation to event B, then an occurrence of A will not automati-cally lead to an occurrence of B: John laying the foundationsof the house is a prereclulSlto for or enables him to build thewalls and roof but does not "cause" it in the more Iraditionalsense of the word and doe~ not automatically or inevitably leadto him building the walls.5.
ConclusionMany of the apparent anomalies and ambiguities that plaguecurrent semantic accotmts of temporal expressions in naturallanguage stem from the assumption that a linear model of timeis the one that our linguistic ategories are most directly relatedto.
A more principled semantics i possible on the assumptionthat the temporal categories of tense, aspect, aspecmal adverbi-als and of propositions themselves refer to a mental representa-tion of events that is smJcmred on other than purely temporalprinciples, and to which the notion of a nucleus or contingentlyrelated sequence of preparatory process, goal event and conse-quent state is central.We see this claim as a logical preliminary to the choice of anyparticular formal representation.
However, certain propertiesof the event-based calculi of Kowalski and Sergot.
and of Lan-sky.
seem to offer an appropriate representation for a3 A Prolog program incorporating the above exmnsion to theevent calculus is under construction and will be presented in Moens(forthcoming).semantics of this kind.ACKNOWLEDGEMENTSWe thank Ethel Schuster and Bonnie Lynn Webber for readingand commenting upon drafts.
Parts of the research were sup-ported by: an Edinburgh University Graduate Studentship; anESPRIT grant (project 393) to CCS, Univ.
Edinburgh; a SloanFoundation grant to the Cognitive Science Program, Univ.Pennsylvania; and NSF grant IRI-10413 A02, ARC) grantDAA6-29- 84K-0061 and DARPA grant N0014-85-K0018 toCIS, Univ.
Pennsylvania.REFERENCESAllen, L. (1984).
Towards a general theory of action and time,Artificial Intelligence, 23, pp.
123-154Dowty, D. (1979).
Word Meaning and Montague Grwnmar.Durdrecht" Reidel.Dowty, D. (1986).
The effects of aspecmal class on the tern-pored structure of discourse.
Linguistics and Philosophy 9,37-62Hinrichs" E. (1986) Temporal anaphora in discourses ofEnglish.
Linguistics and Philosophy 9, 63-82.Kowalski, R. & M. Sergot (1986).
A logic-based calculus ofevents.
In New Generation Computing 4, 67-95.Isard, S.D.
(1975).
Changing the context In E. Keenan, (ed.
),Formal Semantics of Natural Language, London, Cam-bridge University Press.Lansky, A.
(1986).
A representation f parallel activity basedon events, structure and causality.
In Work.shop on Plan.ning and Reasoning about Action, Timberline Lodge,Mount Hood, Oregon, 1986, 50-86.Lansky, A.
& S. Owicki (1983).
GEM: a tool for conct~encyspecification and verification.
In Proceedings of theSecond Annual ACM Symposium on Principles of Distri.buted Computing, August 1983, 198-212.McCarthy, I.
& PJ.
Hayes (1969).
Some philosophical prob-lems from the standpoint of artificial intelligence.
In B.Meltzer & D. Michie (eds.)
Machine Intelligence, Volume4, 463-502.
Edinburgh, Edinburgh University Press.McDermott.
D. (1982).
A temporal logic for mesoning aboutprocesses and plans.
In Cognitive Science, 6, I01-155.Moens, M. & M. Steedman (1986).
Temporal Information andNatural Language Processing.
Edinburgh ResearchPapers in Cognitive Science, r\[, Cenlre for Cognitive Sci-ence, University of Edinburgh.Moens, M. (forthcoming).
Tense, Aspect and Temporal Refer.ence.
PhD dissertation, University of Edinburgh.Partee, Barbara H. (1984).
Nominal and temporal anaphors"Linguistics and Philosophy, 7, pp.
PA3-286.Passonnean, Rebecca J.
(1987).
Situations ~nd intervals, paperto the 25th Annual Conference of the AC~ Stanford, July1987.Reichenbach, H. (1947).
Elements of Symbolic Logic.
NewYork, Free Press, 1966.Schuster, E. (1986).
Towards a computational model of ana-phora in discourse: reference to events and actions.
Tech.Relx~ CIS-MS-86-34, CIS, Univ.
of Pennsylvania.Smith, C. (1983).
A theory of aspectual choice, Language, 59,pp.479-501.Steedman, M. (1982).
Reference to past time.
In Speech,Place andAction, R. Jarvella & W. Klein (eds.
), 125-157.New York: WHey.Vendler, Z.
(1967).
Verbs and times.
In Linguistics in Philoso-phy, Z. Vendler, 97-121.
Ithaca.
N.Y.: Comell UniversityPress.Webber, B.
(1987).
The interpretation of tense in discourse.Paper to the 25th Annual Conference of the ACL, Stan-ford, July 1987.
