THE INTERPRETATION OF TENSE IN DISCOURSEBonnie Lynn WebberDepartment of Computer & Information ScienceUniversity of PennsylvaniaPhiladelphia PA 19104-6389AbstractThis paper gives an account of the role tense plays inthe listener's reconstruction of the events and situations aspeaker has chosen to describe.
Several new ideas arepresented: (a) that tense is better viewed by analogy withdefinite NPs than with pronouns; (b) that a narrative has atemporal focus that grounds the context-dependency oftense; and (c) that focus management heuristics can beused to track the movement of temporal focus.
11.
IntroductionMy basic premise is that in processing a narrative text,a listener is building up a representation of the speaker'sview of the events and situations being described and oftheir relationship to one another.
This representation,which I will call an eventJsituatlon structure or e/sstructure, reflects the listener's best effort at interpretingthe speaker's ordering of those events and situations intime and space.
The listener's problem can therefore beviewed as that of establishing where in the evolving elsstructure to attach the event or situation described in thenext clause.
My claim is that the discourse interpretation oftense contributes to the solution of this problem.This work on the discourse interpretation of tense isbeing carried out in the context of a larger enterprisewhose goal is an account of explicit anaphoric reference toevents and situations, as in Example 1.Example 1It's always been presumed that when the glaciersreceded, the area got very hot.
The Folsum mencouldn't adapt, and they died out.
That's what'ssupposed to have happened./t's the textbook dogma.But it's wrong.
They were human and smart.
Theyadapted their weapons and culture, and they survived.Example 1 shows that one may refer anaphorically tostructured entities built up through multiple clauses.
Thusan account of how clauses arrange themselves intostructures is necessary to an account of event reference.
2IThis work was papally supported by ARO grant DAA29-84og-0027,NSF grant MCS-8219116-CER, and DARPA grant N00014-85-K-0018 tothe University of Pennsylvania, and by DARPA grant N00014-aS.-C-0012 toUNISYS.=Other parts of ~e entemrise include a ganeraJ mechanism forindividuating composite entities made up of ones separately introducedI20, 21J and a representation for events that aJlow for anaphoric referenceto both particular events and situations and to abstractions thereof \[16\],In this paper, I will relate the problem of building up ane/s structure to what has been described as theanaphoric property of tense \[7, 11, 6, 1, 12\] and of relativetemporal adverbials\[18\].
Anaphora are expressionswhose specification is context-dependent.
Tense andrelative temporal adverbials, I interpret as specifyingpositions in an evolving els structure.
My view of theiranaphoric nature is that the particular positions they canspecify depend on the current context.
And the currentcontext only makes a few positions accessible.
(This I willclaim to be in contrast with the ability of temporalsubordinate clauses and noun phrases (NPs) to direct thelistener to any position in the evolving structure.
)The paper is organized as follows: In Section 2, Idiscuss tense as an anaphoric device.
Previous work inthis area has discussed how tense is anaphoric, claimingas well that it is like a pronoun.
While agreeing as to thesource of the anaphoric character of tense, I do not thinkthe analogy with pronouns has been productive.
Incontrast, I discuss what I believe to be a more productiveanalogy between tense and definite noun phrases.Previous work has focussed on the interpretation oftensed clauses in simple linear narratives (i.e., narrativesin which the order of underlying events directlycorresponds to their order of presentation).
3 Here themost perplexing question involves when the next clause ina sequence is interpreted as an event or sequencecoincident with the previous one and when, as followingthe previous one \[4, 6, 12\].
In Section 3, I show that if onemoves beyond simple linear narratives, there are moreoptions.
In terms of the framework proposed here, theremay be more than one position in the evolving e/sstructure which can provide a context for theinterpretation of tense.
Hence there may be more than oneposition in els structure which tense can specify andwhich the new event or situation can attach to.To model the possible contexts, I introduce adiscourse-level focussing mechanism - temporal focus orTF - similar to that proposed for interpreting pronouns anddefinite NPs \[17\].
I give examples to show that change ofTF is intimately bound up with narrative structure.
To keeptrack of and predict its movement, I propose a set of focusheuristics: one Focus Maintenance Heuristic, predictingregular movement forward, two Embedded DiscourseHeuristics for stacking the focus and embarking on anembedded narrative, and one Focus ResumptionZAnother persOn currently addressing the interpretation of tense andaspect in more complex narratives is Nakhimovsky I9, 10\].
Though we areaddressing somewhat different issues, his approach seems verycompatible with this one.147Heuristic for returning and resuming the current narrative.The need for each of these is shown by example.In Section 4, I show that relative temporal adverbialsdisplay the same anaphoric property as simple tense.That the interpretation of tense should be entwinedwith discourse structure in this way should not come as asurprise, as a similar thing has been found true of otherdiscourse anaphora \[5\].2.
Tense as AnaphorTense does not seem prima facie anaphoric: anisolated sentence like "John went to bed" or "1 met a manwho looked like a basset hound = appears to make sensewithout previously establishing when it happened.
On theother hand, if some time or event is established by thecontext, tense will invariably be interpreted with respect toit, as in:Example 2After he finished his chores, John went to bed.John partied until 3arn.
He came home and wentto bed.In each case, John's going to bed is linked to an explictlymentioned time or event.
This linkage is the anaphoricproperty of tense that previous authors have described.Hinrichs\[6\] and Bauerle\[1\], following McCawley\[7\] and Partee \[11\], showed that it is not tense per se thatis interpreted anaphorically, but that part of tense called byReichenbach \[14\] reference time.
4 According toReichenbach, the interpretation of tense requires threenotions: speech time (ST), event time lET), andreference time (RT).
RT is the time from which theevent/situation described in the sentence is viewed.
It maybe the same as ST, as inpresent perfect: ET<RT=STJohn has climbed Aconcagua and Mt.
McKinley.simple presenti ET=RT=STJohn is in the lounge.the same as El', as insimple past: ET=RT<STJohn climbed Aconcagua.simple future: ST<ET=RTJohn will climb Aconcagua.in between ET and ST, as inpast perfect: ET<RT<STJohn had climbed Aconcagua.or following both El" and ST (looking bac~ to them), as inf.uture perfect: ST<ET<RTJohn will have climbed Mt.
McKinley.That it is RT that it is interpreted anaphorically, and noteither El" or tense as a whole can be seen by consideringExample 3..Example 3John went to the hospital.He had twisted his ankle on a patch of ice.It is not the El" of John's twisting his ankle that isinterpreted anaphorically with respect to his going to thehospital.
Rather, it is the RT of the second clause: its ET isinterpreted as prior to that because the clause is in thepast perfect tense (see above).Having said that it is the RT of tense whoseinterpretation is anaphoric, the next question to ask is whatkind of anaphoric behavior it evinces.
In previous work,tense is claimed to behave like a pronoun.
Partee\[12\] makes the strongest case, claiming that pronounsand tense display the same range of antecedent-anaphorlinkages:Oeictic Antecedentspro: She left reel (said by a man crying on the stoop) stense: I left the oven onl (said by a man to his wifein the car)Indefinite Antecedentspro: I bought a banana.
I took it home with me.tense: I bought a banana.
I took it home with me.<1 took it home after I bought it.>Bound Variablespro: Every man thinks he is a genius.tense: Whenever Mary phoned, Sam was asleep.<Mary phoned at time t, Sam was asleep at t>Donkey Sentencespro: Every man who owns a donkey beats it.tense: Whenever Mary phoned on a Friday, Sam wasasleep.<Mary phoned at time t on a Friday, Sam wasasleep at t on that Friday>Because of this similarity, Partee and others have claimedthat tense is like a pronoun.
Their account of how time isthen seen to advance in simple linear narratives isdesigned, in part, to get around the problem that whilepronouns coospecify with their antecedents, the RT ofclause N cannot just co-specify the same time as theprevious clause \[6, 12, 4\].There is another option though: one can draw ananalogy between tense and definite NPs, which are alsoanaphoric.
Support for this analogy is that, like a definite4Hinrichs' work is discussed as well in \[12l.Sl believe thai the deictic use of pronouns is infelicitous.
In this example,the speake?
is dis~'aught and making no attemp( to be cooperauve.
Ithappens.
But that doesn't mean thai pronouns have deictic antecedents.
Iinclude the example here because it is part of Partee's argument.148NP, tense can cause the listener to create something new.With a definite NP, that something new is a new discourseentity \[19\].
With tense, I will say for now that it is a newtime at which the event or situation is interpreted asocouring, s If one looks at texts other than simple linearnarratives, this ability becomes clear, as the followingsimple example shows:Example 4I was at Mary's house yesterday.We talked about her brother.He spent 5 weeks in Alaska with two fdends.Together, they made a successful assault on Denali.Mary was very proud of him.The event of Mary's brother spending five weeks in Alaskais not interpreted as occurring either coincident with orafter the event of my conversation with Mary.
Rather, theevents corresponding to the embedded narrative in thethird and fourth clause are interpreted at a different spatio-temporal location than the conversation.
That it is beforethe conversation is a matter of world knowledge.
In the elsstructure for the whole narrative, the tense of the thirdclause would set up a new position for the events of theembedded narrative, ordered prior to the current position,to site these events.The claimed analogy of tense with pronouns is basedon the similarity in antecedent-anaphor linkages theydisplay.
But notice that definite NPs can display the samelinkages in two different ways: (1) the definite NP can co-specify with its antecedent, as in the a. examples below,and (2) the definite NP can specify a new entity that is'strongly' associated with the antecedent and is unique byvirtue of that association, as in the b. examples below 7Deictic AntecedentsThe car won't startl (said by a man crying on the stoop)Indefinite Antecedentsa.
I picked up a banana.
Up close, I noticed the bananawas too green to eat.b.
I picked up a banana.
The skin was all brown.Bound Variablesa.
Next to each car, the owner of the carwas sleepingsoundly.b.
In each car, the engine was idling quietly.Donkey Sentencesa.
Everyone who wants a car must fix the car himself.b.
Everyone who owns a Ford tunes the engine himself.Thus the range of antecedent-anaphor behavior thatPartee calls attention to argues equally for an analogybetween tense and pronouns as for an analgoy betweentense and definite NPs.eAfter I say more about Me structure construction, I will be able to claimthat tense can cause the listener to create a new position in e/s structureat which to attach the event or situation described in its associated clause.7Clark & Marshall \[2\] are among those who have described ~enecessary "common knowledge" that must be assumable by speaker andlistener about the association for the spedfication to be successful.However, there are two more features of behavior toconsider: On the one hand, as noted earlier, definite NPshave a capability that pronouns lack 8.
That is, they canintroduce a new entity into the discourse that is 'strongly'associated with the antecedent and is unique by virtue ofthat association, as in the b. examples above.
Example 4shows that tense has a similar ability.
Thus, a strongeranalogy can be drawn between tense and definite NPs.On the other hand, definite NPs have the capability tomove the listener away from the current focus to aparticular entity introduced earlier or a particular entityassociated with it.
This ability tense lacks.
While tensecan set up a new node in els structure that is stronglyassociated with its 'antecedent', it does not conveysufficient information to position that node precisely - forexample, precisely relative to some other event orsituation the listener has been told about.
Thus itsresemblance to definite NPs is only partial, although it isstronger-than its resemblance to pronouns.
To locate anode precisely in e/s structure requires the full temporalcorrelate of a definite NP - that is, a temporal subordinateclause or a definite NP itself, as in Example 5.Example 5The bus reached the Stadium, terminal for the suburbanbus services.
Here De Witt had to change to a streetcar.The wind had abated but the rain kept falling, almostvertically now.
He was travelling to a two o'clockappointment at Amsterdam police headquarters in thecenter of town, and he was sure to be late.When De Witt got to the police president's office, hetelephoned his house.\[adapted from Hans Koning, De Witt's War\]Notice that without the "when" clause, the simple pasttense of "he telephoned his house" would be anaphoricallyinterpreted with respect to the "reaching the Stadium"event, as happening sometime after that.
A new nodewould be created in els structure ordered sometime afterthe "reaching the Stadium" event.
On the other hand, withthe "when" clause, that new node can be ordered moreprecisely after the "reaching the Stadium" event.
Byassociation with its "antecedent" (the "travelling to theappointment" event), it can be ordered after theachievement of that event.There is another advantage to be gained by pushingfurther the analogy between tense and definite NPs thatrelates to the problem tackled in \[6, 4, 12\] of how toreconcile the anaphoric nature of tense with the fact thatthe event or situation described in the next clause variesas to whether it is taken to be coincident with, during,before or after the event or situation described in theprevious clause.
This I will discuss in the next section,after introducing the notion of temporal focus.aexcept for "pronouns of laziness" which can evoke and specify newentities through the use of previous dascriptions1493.
Tempora l  FocusIn this section, I give a more specific account of howthe discourse interpretation of tense relates to e/sstructure construction.At any point N in the discourse, there is one node ofe/s structure that provides a context for the interpretationof the RT of the next ctause.
I will call it the temporalfocus or TF.
There are three possibilities: (1) the FIT ofthe next clause will be interpreted anaphorically againstthe current TF, (2) the "IF will shift to a different node ofMs structure- either one already in the structure or onecreated in recognition of an embedded narrative - and theRT interpreted with respect to that node, or (3) the "IF willreturn to the node previously labeUed TF, after completingan embedded narrative, as in (2), and the RT interpretedthere, These three behaviors are described by four focusmanagement heuristics described in this section: a FocusMaintenance Heuristic, two Embedded DiscourseHeuristics and a Focus Resumption Heuristic.
9In \[21\], I presented a control structure in which theseheuristics were applied serially.
The next heuristic wouldonly be applied when the prediction of the previous onewas rejected on grounds of "semantic or pragmaticinconsistency'.
I now believe this is an unworkablehypothesis.
Maintaining it requires (1) identifying groundsfor such rejection and (2) arguing that one can rejectproposals, independent of knowing the alternatives.I now don't believe that either can be done.
It is rarelythe case that one cannot come up with a story linking twoevents and/or Situations.
Thus it would be impossible toreject a hypothesis on grounds of inconsistency.
All onecan say is that one of such stodes might be more plausiblethan the others by requiring, in some sense not exploredhere, fewer inferences.
~?Thus I would now describe these heuristics as runningin parallel, with the most plausible prediction being the onethat ends up updating both sis structure and the TF.
Forclarity in presentation though, I will introduce eachheuristic separately, at the point that the next examplecalls for it.3.1.
Interpreting RT against "iFBefore presenting the temporal focus managementheuristics, I want to say a bit more about what it can meanto interpret the RT of the next clause against the currentTF.
This discussion points out the additional advantage to9Rohrer \[15\] suggest= that ~ere may exist a set of possible temporalreferents, possibly ordered by saliency, among which ~e tense in asentence may find its reference time, but donsn't elaborate how.
That is~a only thing I have seen thin comes close to eta current proposal.l?Ccain arid Steedman \[3\] make a similar argument about prepositionalphrase (PP) attachmenL For example, it is not impossible for a cat to own atelescope - e.g., by inheritance from its former owner.
Thus "a ~ wi~ atelescope" is not art inconsistent description.
However, it must competewith other plausible interpretations like "seeing wi~ a telescope" in "i saw ==cat with a telescope'.be gained by pushing the analogy between tense anddefinite NPs.As I noted above, a definite NP can specify an entity'strongly' associated with its antecedent.
One might thusconsider what is 'strongly' associated with an event.
Oneanswer to this question appears in two separate papers inthis volume \[8, 13\], each ascribing a tripartite structure tothe way we view and talk about events.
This structureconsists of a preparatory phase, a culmination, and aconsequence phase, to use the terminology of \[8\].
(Such astructure is proposed, in part, to give a uniform account ofhow the interpretation of temporal adverbials interacts withthe interpretation of tense and aspect.
)Nodes in e/s structure correspond to events andsituations, as the speaker conceives them.
If oneassociates such a structure with the node labelled thecurrant TF, then one can say that 'strongly' associatedwith it are events and situations that could make up itspreparatory phase, culmination or consequence phase.Like a definite NP, the RT of tense may either co-specifythe current TF or set up a new node in e/s structure'strongly' associated with the TF.
In the latter case, itscorresponding event or situation will be interpreted asbeing part of one of these three phases, depending on thespeaker and listener's assumed shared knowledge.Since, arguably, the most common way of perceiving thewodd is as an ordered sequence of events, this willincrease the plausibility of interpreting the next event orsituation as (1) still associated with the current TF and (21part of the consequence phase of that event (i.e., after it).On the other hand, this 'strong association' treatment nolonger limits anaphorio interpretation to "co-specify" or"right after= as in \[4, 6, 12\].
The event described can beanaphorically associated with the the whole eventstructure (Example 6a), the consequence phase (Example6b - "right after'), or the preparatory phase (Example 6c -"before').Example 6a.
John walked across Iowa.
He thought about Mary,who had run off with a computational linguist.b.
John walked across Iowa.
He crossed the state lineat Council Bluffs and headed west through Nebraska.c.
John walked across iowa.
He started in Sioux Cityand headed east to Fort Dodge.Deciding which of these three options holds in a givencase demands an appeal to world knowledge (e.g.
whichactions can be performed simultaneously by a singleagent).
This is yet another area demanding further studyand is not treated in this paper.
1111Mark Steedman shares responsibility for this idea, which is aJsomentioned in his paper wi~ Marc Moons in this volume \[8\].1503.2.
Focus  Ma intenance  and Focus  MovementThe following pair of examples illustrate the simplestmovement of temporal focus in a discourse and its linkwith e/s structure construction.Example 7a1.
John went over to Mary's house.2.
On the way, he had stopped by the flower shop forsome roses.3.
Unfortunately the roses failed to cheer her up.Example To1.
John went over to Mary's house.2.
On the way, he had stopped by the flower shop forsome roses.3.
He picked out 5 red ones, 3 white ones and onepale pink.Since the first two clauses are the same in theseexamples, I will explain them together.With no previous temporal focus (TF) establishedprior to clause 1, the listener creates a new node of e/sstructure, ordered prior to now, to serve as TF.
"IF sitesthe anaphoric interpretation of RT 1, which, because clause1 is in the simple past, also sites ET 1.
This is shownroughly in Figure 3-1.Figure 3-1: E/S structure after processing clause 1The first heuristic to be introduced is a FocusMaintenance Heuristic (FMH).After interpreting dause N, the new TF is the mostrecent TF - i.e., the node against which RT N wasinterpreted.The most recent "IF is cotemporal with RT I.
This new TFnow provides a site for interpreting RT 2.
Since clause 2 ispast perfect, ET 2 is interpreted as being prior to RT 2.
E/sstructure is now roughly as shown in Figure 3-2.E't'~?'.~z.
s"~ E.~\]..Flgure 3-2: E/S structure after processing clause 2Applying the FMH again, RT 2 is the new TF going intoclause 3.
Examples 7a and 7b here diverge in whatsubsequently happens to the TF.In 7a, RT 3 can be anaphorically interpreted asimmediately following the TF.
Since RT 3 in turn directlysites ET 3 (clause 3 being simple past), the "failing event"is interpreted as immediately following the "going over toMary's house ?
event.
This is shown roughly in Figure 3-3.
(TF is shown already moved forward by the FMH, readyfor the interpretation of the next clause, if any.
)nkFigure 3-3: E/S structure after processing clause 7a-3To get the most plausible interpretation of 7b - i.e.,where the "rose picking ?
event is interpreted anaphoricallywith respect to the "flower shop" event - requires a secondheuristic, which I will call an Embedded DiscourseHeuristic.
This will be EDH-1, since I will introduceanother Embedded Discourse Heuristic a bit later.If ET N is different from RTN='rF, treat utterance N asthe beginning of an embedded narrative, reassign ET Nto TF (stacking the previous value of TF, for possibleresumption later) and try to interpret RTN+ 1 against thisnew TF.By this heuristic winning the plausibility stakes against theFMH, TF is reassigned to ET 2 (stacking the previous TF,which is sited at RT2=RT I=ET 1).
and RT 3 is anaphoricallyinterpreted as following this new TF.
As before, ET 3 issited directly at RT 3 (since simple past), so the "pickingout the roses" event is viewed as immediately followingthe "stopping at the florist" event.
This is shown roughly inFigure 3-4.. k~"Figure 3-4: E/S structure after processing clause 7b-3Now consider the following extension to example 7b.Example 7c1.
John went over to Mary's house.2.
On the way, he had stopped by the flower shop forsome roses.3.
He picked out 5 red ones, 3 white ones andone pale pink.4.
Unfortunately they failed to cheer her up.First notice that clauses 2-3 form an embedded narrativethat interrupts the main narrative of John's visit to Mary's.The main sequence of events that begins with clause 1resumes at clause 4.
Now consider the anaphoricinterpretation of tense.
Clauses 1-3 are interpreted as inExample 7b (cf.
Figure 3-4).
The problem comes in theinterpretation of Clause 7c-4.151To get the most plausible interpretation requires a thirdheuristic which I will call a Focus Resumption Heuristic(FRH).At the transition bade from an embedded nan'alive,the TF prior to the embedding (stacked by anEmbedded Discourse Heuristic) can be resumed.Using this heuristic, the previously stacked TF (sited atRT2=RT1-ET 1 - the "going to Mary's house" event)becomes the new TF, and RT 4 is interpreted as directlyfollowing it.
Since clause 7c-4 is simple past, the "failing"event is again correctly interpreted as immediatelyfollowing the "going over to Mary's house" event.
This isshown roughly in Figure 3-5.E~I | ~ L~FFigure 3-5: EJS structure after processing clause 7c-4I have already noted that, like a definite NP, tense cancause the listener to create a new node in e/s structure tosite its RT.
What I want to consider here is thecircumstances under which a reader is likely to create anew node of e/s structure to interpret RTN.I, rather thanusing an existing node (i.e., the current TF, one associatedwith the previous event (if not the TF) or a previous,stacked TF).One circumstance I mentioned earlier was at thebeginning of a discourse: a reader will take anintroductory sentence like Snoopy's famous first lineIt was a dark and stormy night.and start building up a new e/s structure with one nodecorresponding to ST and another node siting RT and ET,Generalizing this situation to the beginning of embeddednarratives as well, I propose a second EmbeddedDiscourse Heuristic (EDH-2):If clause N+t is interpreted as beginning anembedded narrative, create a new node of e/sstructure and assign it to be TF.
Stack the previousvalue of TF, for possible resumption later.EDH-2 differs from EDH-1 in being keyed by the newclause itself: there is no existing event node of elsstructure, different from the currant TF, which theembedded narrative is taken to further describe.EDH-2 explains what is happening in interpreting thethird clause of Example 4.
Even though all the clauses ofExample 4 are simple past, with ET=RT, the third clause ismost plausibly interpreted as describing an event whichhas ocoured prior to the *telling about her brother" event.EDH-2 provides the means of interpreting the tense in anembedded narrative whose events may occur eitherbefore or even after the current TF.Example 41.
I was at Mary's house yesterday.2.
We talked about her brother.3.
He spent 5 weeks in Alaska with two friends.4.
Together, they made a successful assault on Denali.5.
Mary was very proud of him.Notice that the focus stacking specified in EDH-2 enablesthe correct interpretation of clause 4-5, which is mostplausibly interpreted via the FRH as following the "tellingabout her brother" event.EDH-2 is also relevant for the interpretation of NPsheaded by de-verbal nouns (such as "trip', "installation',etc.).
While such a NP may describe an event or situation,there may not be enough information in the NP itself or inits clause to locate the event or situation in els structure(of.
"my trip to Alaska" versus "my recent/upcoming trip toAlaska').
On the other hand, EDH-2 provides a way ofallowing that information to come from the subsequentdiscourse.
That is, if the following clause or NP can beinterpreted as describing a particular event/situation, theoriginal NP and the subsequent NP or clause can be takenas co-specifying the same thing.
Roughly, that is how Ipropose treating cases such as the following variation ofExample 4:Example 81.
I was talking with Mary yesterday.2.
She told me about her trip to Alaska.3.
She spent five weeks there with two friends,and the three of them climbed Denali.The NP "her trip to Alaska" does not of itself cause anaddition to e/s structure.
12 Rather, application of EDH-2to the interpretation of clause 5-3 results in the creation ofa new node of els structure against which its RT is sited.Other reasoning results in clause 3 and "her trip to Alaska"being taken as co-specifying the same event.
This is whatbinds them together and associates "her trip to Alaska"with a node of e/s structure.Rnally, notice that there will be an ambiguity whenmore than heuristic makes a plausible prediction, as in thefollowing example:Example 91.
I told Frank about my meeting with Ira.2.
We talked about ordering a butterfly.It is plausible to take the second utterance as thebeginning of an embedded narrative, whereby EDH-2results in the "talking about" event being interpretedagainst a new node of els structure, situated prior to the"telling Frank" event.
(In this case, "we" is Ira and me.)
It isalso plausible to take the second utterance as continuingthe current narrative, whereby FMH results in the "talkingabout" event being interpreted with respect to the "tellingFrank" event.
(In contrast here, "we" is Frank and me.
)1=It does, of course, result in Re creation of a discourse entity \[19\].
Therelationship I see between t~e listener's e/s structure and his'herd lacoume model  is discussed in \[21 \].1524.
Temporal Focus and Temporal AdverbialsSo far I have only shown that clauses containing noother time-related constructs than tense can be interpretedanaphorically against more than one site in ale structure.Now I want to show, at least by example, that what I haveproposed holds for clauses containing relative temporaladverbs as well.
Relative temporal adverbials must beinterpreted with respect to some other time \[18\].
Soconsider the italicized forms in the following brief texts.John became the captain of Penn's squash team.He was previously captain of the Haverford team.John left for London on Sunday.Tuesday he went to Cambridge.Tuesday John went to Cambridge.On Sunday, he left for London.Previously is interpreted with respect to the previouslymentioned "becoming captain" event: it was before thatthat he was captain at Haverford.
In the second case, theadverbial On Sunday, given no previous link in thediscourse, is interpreted with respect to ST. However,Tuesday is then interpreted with respect to the event ofJohn's leaving for London: it is interpreted as the Tuesdayafter that event.
The third case is the reverse.What I want to show is that, as before, the same fourheuristics predict the sites in els structure that mayprovide a context for a relative temporal adverbial.Consider the following.Example 10a1.
John went over to Mary's house.2.
On the way, he had stopped by the flower shop forsome roses.3.
After five minutes of awkwardness, he gave herthe flowersExample 10b1.
John went over to Mary's house.2.
On the way, he had stopped by the flower shop forsome roses.3.
After 20 minutes of waiting, he left with the bouquetand fairly ran to Mary's.I will use ADV to refer to the interpretation of the "after"adverbial.
In these cases, what is sited by TF is thebeginning of the interval.
What in turn sites the RT of themain clause is the end of the interval.The processing of the first two clauses is just the sameas in examples 7a and b.
From here, the two examplesdiverge.In 10a-3, the beginning of ADV is most plausiblyinterpreted with respect to the TF.
The end of ADV in turnprovides an anaphoric interpretation point for RT 3.
SinceET 3 is interpreted as coincident with RT 3 (clause 3 beingsimple past), the "rose giving" event is interpreted asimmediately following John's getting to Mary's house.
Thisis shown roughly in figure 4-1.Figure 4-1: E/S structure after processing clause 10a-3In 10b-3, the interpretation due to FMH is lessplausible than that due to EDH-I.
EDH-1 re-assigns TF toET2, where the beginning of ADV is then sited.
The end ofADV in turn provides an anaphoric interpretation point forRT 3.
Since ET 3 is sited at RT 3, the "leaving with thebouquet" event is sited at the end of the twenty minutes ofwaiting.
This is shown roughly in Figure 4-2.,.._.,_3la?>v "t'~"Figure 4-2: E/S structure after processing clause 10b-3An interesting question to consider is whether aspeaker would ever shift the TF as modelled by the FRHor the EDH-2, while simultaneously using a relativetemporal adverbial whose interpretation would have to belinked to the new TF, as in example 11 (movement viaFRH) and example 12 (movement via EDH-2).Example 111.
John went over to Mary's house.2.
On the way, he had stopped by the flower shop forsome roses3.
He picked out 5 red ones, 3 white ones and onepale pink.4.
After 5 minutes of awkwardness, he gave her theflowers.Example 121.
I was at Mary's house yesterday.2.
We talked about her brother.3.
After 6 months of planning, he went to Alaska withtwo friends.4.
Together, they made a successful assault on Denali.5.
Mary was very proud of him.I find both examples a bit awkward, but neverthelessunderstandable.
Accounting for TF movement in each ofthem is straightforward.
However, whether to attribute theawkwardness of these examples to exceeding people'sprocessing capabilities or to a problem with the theory isgrist for further study.1535.
ConclusionIn this paper, I have given what I believe to be acredible account of the role that tense plays in thelistener's reconstruction of the events and situations aspeaker has chosen to describe.
I have provided supportfor several new ideas: (a) that tense is better viewed byanalogy with definite NPs than with pronouns; (b) that anarrative has a temporal focus that grounds the context-dependency of tense; and (?)
that focus managementheuristics can be used to track the movement of temporalfocus.
I have also identified a host of problems that requirefurther work, including (1) how to incorporate aspectualinterpretation into the model, (2) how to evaluate 'strongassociations' between events and/or situations and (3)how to judge plausibility.AcknowledgmentsI would like to extend my thanks to Debby Dahl,Martha Palmer and Becky Passonneau at UNISYS fortheir enthusiastic support and trenchant criticism.
I havealso gained tremendously from discussions with JamesAllen, Barbara Grosz, Erhard Hinrichs, Aravind Joshi,Hans Kemp, Ethel Schuster, Candy Sidner, and MarkSteedman.References1.
Bauede, R.. Tempora/e Deixis, tempora/e /=rage.Gunter Narr Veriag, Tubigen, 1979.2.
Clark, H. & Marshall, C. Definite Reference and MutualKnowledge.
In Elements of Discourse Understanding,A.K.
Joshi, B.L.
Webber & I.A.
Sag, Ed., CambridgeUniversity Press, Cambridge England, 1981, pp.
10-63.3.
Craln, S. & Steedman, M. On not being Led up theGarden Path: the use of context by the psychologicalsyntax processor.
In Natural Language Parsing, D. Dowty,L.
Karttunen & A. Zwicky, Ed., Cambridge Univ.
Press,Cambridge England, 1985, pp.
320-358.4.
Dowty, D. "The Effects of Aspectual Class on theTemporal Structure of Discourse: Semantics orPragmatics".
Linguistics and Philosophy 9, 1 (February1986), 37-62.5.
Grosz, B.
& Sidner, C. "Attention, Intention and theStructure of Discourse'.
Computational Linguistics 12, 3(July-September 1986), 175-204.6.
Hinrichs, E. "Temporal Ana~ohora in Discourses ofEnglish".
Linguistics and Philosophy 9, 1 (February 1986),63-82.7.
McCawley, J. Tense and Time Reference in English.In Studies in Linguistic Semantics, C. Fillmore & D.T.Langendoen, Ed., Hot, Rinehart and Winston, Inc., NewYork, 1971, pp.
97-114.8.
Moens, M. & Steedman, M. Temporal Ontology inNatural Language.
Proc.
of the 25th Annual Meeting,Assoc.
for Computational Linguistics, Stanford Univ., PaloAlto CA, July, 1987.
This volume..9, Nakhimovsky, A. Temporal Reasoning in NaturalLanguage Understanding.
Proc.
of EACL-87, EuropeanAssoc.
for Computational Linguistics, Copenhagen,Denmark, April, 1987.10, Nakhimovsky, A. Tense, Aspect and the TemporalStructure of the Narrative.
Submitted to ComputationalLinguistics, special issue on computational approaches totense and aspect.11.
Partee, B.
"Some Structural Analogies betweenTenses and Pronouns in English'.
Journal of Philosophy70 (1973), 601-609.12.
Partee, B.
"Nominal and Temporal Anaphora".Linguistics and Philosophy 7, 3 (August 1984), 243-286.13.
Passonneau, R. Situations and Intervals.
Proc.
of the25th Annual Meeting, Assoc.
for ComputationalLinguistics, Stanford Univ., Palo Alto CA, July, 1987.
Thisvolume..14.
Reichenbach, H..
The Elements of Symbolic Logic.The Free Press, New York, 1966.
Paperback edition.15.
Rohrer, C. Indirect Discourse and 'ConsecutioTemporum'.
In Temporal Structure in Sentence andDiscourse, V. Lo Cascio & C. Vet, Ed., Forts Publications,Dordrecht, 1985, pp.
79-98.16.
Schuster, E. Towards a Computational Model ofAnaphora in Discourse: Reference to Events and Actions.CIS-MS-66-34, Dept.
of Comp.
& Info Science, Univ ofPennsylvania, June, 1986.
Doctoral thesis proposal..17.
Sidner, C. Focusing in the Comprehension of DefiniteAnaphora.
In Computational Models of Discourse,M.
Brady & R. Berwick, Ed., MIT Press.
Cambridge MA,1982, pp.
267-330.18.
Smith, C. Semantic and Syntactic Constraints onTemporal Interpretation.
In Syntax and Semantics,Volume 14: Tense &Aspect, P. Tedesci & A. Zsenen, Ed.,Academic Press, 1981, pp.
213-237.19.
Webber, B.L.
So What Can We Talk about Now?
InComputational Models of Discourse, M. Brady &R. Berwick, Ed., MIT Press, Cambridge MA, 1982, pp.331-371.20.
Webber, B.L.
Event Reference.
Theoretical Issues inNatural Language Processing (TINLAP-3), Assoc.
forComputational Linguistics, Las Cruses NM, January, 1987,pp, 137-142.21.
Webber, B.L.
Two Steps Closer to Event Reference.CLS-86-74, Dept.
of Comp.
& Info Science, Univ.
ofPennsylvania, February, 1987.154
