TOWARD TREATING ENGLISH NOMINALS CORRECTLYRichard W. Sproat, Mark Y. LibermanLinguistics DepartmentAT&T BeLl Laboratories600 Mountain AvenueMurray Hill, NJ 07974AbstractWe describe a program for assigningcorrect stress contours to nominals in English.It makes use of idiosyncratic knowledge aboutthe stress behavior of various nominal typesand general knowledge about English stressrules.
We have also investigated the relatedissue of parsing complex nominals in English.The importance of this work and relatedresearch to the problem of text-to-speech is'discussed.I.
IntroductionWe will discuss the analysis of Englishexpressions consisting of a head noun precededby one or more open.class specifiers: risingprices, horse blanket, mushroom omelet, bananabread, parish priest, gurgle detector,quarterback sneak, blind spot, red herring,bachelor's degree, Planck's constant, MadisonAvenue, Wall Street, Washington's birthdaysale, error correction code logic, steel industrycollective bargaining agreement, expensive toxicwaste cleanup, windshield wiper bladereplacement, computer communications etworkperformance analysis primer, and so forth.
Forbrevity, we wil l  call such expressions'nominals.'
Our main aim is an algorithm forassigning stress patterns to such nominalexpressions; we will also discuss methods forparsing them.Nominals are hard to parse, since theirpre-terminal string is usually consistent withall possible constituent structures, so that weseem to need an analysis of the relativeplausibility of the various meanings (Marcus,1980; Finin, 1980).
Even when the constituentstructure is known (as trivially in the case ofbinary nominals), nominal stress patterns arehard to predict, and also seem to depend onmeaning (Bolinger, 1972; Fudge, 1984;Selkirk, 1984).
This is a serious problem fortext-to-speech algorithms, since nominalexpressions are common at the ends ofphrases, and the location of a phrase's lastaccent has a large effect on its sound.Complex nominals are common in most kindsof text; for example, in the million words ofthe Brown Corpus (Francis and Ku~era, 1982),there are over 73,000 nominals containingmore than two words.However, we have been able to makesome progress on the problems of parsing andstress assignment for nominals in unrestrictedtext.
This paper concentrates on therepresentation and use of knowledge relevantto the problem of assigning stress; this sameknowledge turns out to be useful in parsing.For the purposes of this paper, we will bedealing with nominals in contexts where thedefault stress pattern is not shifted byphenomena such as as intonational focus orcontrastive stress, exemplified below:(1) a.
We're only interested in solvableproblems.
(words like only dependon stress to set their scope motherwise, this nominal's main stresswould be on its final word.)b.
He's a lion-tamer, not a lion-hunter.
(in a non-contrastive context, thesenominals' main stresses would be ontheir penultimate words.
)These interesting phenomena rarely I shiftmain phrase stress in expository text, and are1.
In our samples, only a fraction of a percent of complexnominals in phrase-final position have their main stressshifted by focus or contrast.140best seen as a modulation of the null-hypothesis tress patterns.We have argued elsewhere (Liberman andSproat, 1987) for the following positions: (i)the syntax of modification is quite free mvarious modifiers of nominal heads (includingadjectives, nouns, and possessives) may occuras sisters of any X-bar projection of thenominal head; (ii) modification at differentX-bar levels expresses different types ofmeaning relations (see also Jackendoff, 1973);(iii) the English nominal system includes manyspecial constructions that do not conform tothe usual specifier-head patterns, such ascomplex names, time and date expressions,and so forth; (iv) the default stress patterndepends on the syntactic structure.Points (ii) and (iv) are common opinionsin the linguistic literature.
In particular, wesupport generative phonology's traditionalview of phrasal stress rules, which is thatstructures of category N O have the patternassigned by the compound stress rule, whichmakes left-hand subconstituents stress-dominant unless their right-hand sisters arelexically complex.
2 In simple binary cases, thisamounts to left-hand stress.
All otherstructures are (recursively) right stressed,according to what is called the nuclear stressrule.
3Points (i) and (iii) are less commonplace.They make it impossible to predict stress fromthe preterminal string of a binary nominal,since the left-hand element may be attached atany bar level, or may be involved in somespecial construction.
We do not have space to2.
Various authors (e.g.
Liberman & Prince 1977, Hayes1980) have suggested that the behavior of thecompound stress rule, which in fact applies tocompound nouns but not to compound adjectives orverbs, is related to the tendency of non-compoundEnglish nouns to have their main stress one syllablefarther back than equivalent verbs or adjectives.
Thisgeneralization strengthens the argument that IN N\]constituents with left-hand stress are of parent categoryN O .3.
See Chomsky and Halle (1968), Liberman and Prince(1977), Hayes (1980) for various versions of theserules.argue here for this point of view, but someillustrative examples may help make ourposition clearer.Examples of adjectives and possessiveswithin N O include sticky bun, black belt, safehouse, straight edge, sick room, medicalsupplies, cashier's check, user's manual, chefsknife, Melzer's solution, etc.
We can see thatthis is not simply a matter of non-compositional semantics by contrasting thestress pattern of red herring, blue moon, Irishstew, hard liquor, musical chairs, dealer'schoice, Avogadro' s number, cat's pajamas.
TheN O status of e.g.
user's manual can be seen byits stress pattern as well as its willingness tooccur inside quantifiers and adjectives: threenew user's manuals, but *three new John'sbooks.
In addition, there are several classes ofpossessive phrases that take right-hand stressbut pattern distributionally like adjectives, i.e.occur at N l level, as in three Kirtland'sWarblers.
Examples of nouns at N 1 levelinclude the common 'material-made-of'modifiers (such as steel bar, rubber boots,paper plate, beef burrito,), as well as most timeand place modifiers (garage door, attic roof,village street, summer palace, spring cleaning,holiday cheer, weekend news), some types ofmodification by proper names (India ink,Tiffany lamp, Miami vice, Ming vase), and soon.Thus a stress-assignment algorithm mustdepend on meaning relationships betweenmembers of the nominal, as well as thecollocational propensities of the wordsinvolved.We have written a program that performsfairly well at the task of assigning stress tonominals in unrestricted text.
The input is aconstituent structure for the nominal, and theoutput is a representation f its stress contour.Some examples of nominals to which theprogram assigns stress correctly are given in(2), where primary stress is marked byboldface and secondary stress by italics:141(2)\[\[Boston University\] [Psychology Department\]\]\[\[\[Tom Paine\] Avenue\] Blues\]\[corn flakes\]\[rice pudding\]\[apricot jam\]\[wood floor\]\[cotton shirt\]\[kitchen towel\]\[Philadelphia lawyer\]\[city employee\]\[valley floor\]\[afternoon sun\]\[evening primrose\]\[Easter bunny\]\[morning sickness\]\[\[Staten Island \] Ferry\]\[South street\]\[baggage claim\]\[Mississippi Valley\]\[Buckingham Palace\]\[Surprise Lake\]\[Murray Hill\]There are two main components to theprogram, the first of which deals almostexclusively with binary nominals and thesecond which takes n-ary nominals and figuresout the stress pattern of those.
We deal witheach in turn.2.
Binary NominalsMuch of the work in assigning stress tonominals in English involves figuring out whatto do in the binary cases, and this section willdiscuss how various classes of binary (andsome n-ary nominals, n>2) are handled.
Forexample, to stress \[\[Boston University\]\[Psychology Department\]\] correctly it isnecessary to know that Psychology Departmentis stressed on the left-hand member.
Oncethat is known, the stress contour of the wholefour-member nominal follows from generalprinciples, which will be outlined in thesubsequent section of this paper.To determine the stress pattern of abinary nominal, the following procedure isfollowed:1.
First of all, check to see if the nominal islisted as being one of those which isexceptionally stressed.
For instance, our listof some 7000 left-stressed nominals includes\[morning sickness\], which will thus get leftstress despite the general preference for rightstress in nominals where the left-hand memberis construed as as describing a location or timefor the right-hand member.
\[Morningprayers\], which follows the regular pattern, isstressed correctly by the program.
Similarly,\['Easter Bunny\] is listed as taking left stresswhereas \[Easter feast\] is correctly stressed onthe right.
There is a common misconceptionto the effect that all and only the lexicalizcd(i.e.
listed) nominal expressions arc left-stressed.
This is false: lexicalization is neithera necessary nor a sufficient condition for leftstress.
Dog annihilator is left-stressedalthough not a member of the phrasal exicon,and red herring is right-stressed although itmust be lexically listed.
Such examples abound(see, also, section 1).2.
If the nominal is not listed, check throughall of the heuristic patterns that might fit it.
Afew examples of these patterns are given belowm some of them are semantic or pragmatic incharacter, others are syntactic, and others aresimply lexical.
Note that there is not an easyboundary (for such an algorithm) between apattern based on meaning and one based onword identity, since semantic classescorrespond roughly to lists of words.MEASURE-PHRASE: the left-hand memberdescribes a unit of measure in terms of whichthe right-hand member is valued.
Examples:dollar bill, pint jug, S gallon tank... Thesenormally take right stress.LOCATION-TIME-OR-SUBSTANCE: theleft-hand member describes the location ortime of the right-hand member, or else asubstance out of which the right-hand memberis made.
Location examples: kitchen towel,downstairs bedroom, city hall... Timeexamples: Monday morning, Christmas Day,summer vacation... Substance xamples: woodfloor, china doll, iron maiden.
These normallytake right stress.ING-NOMINAL, AGENT-NOMINAL,DERIVED-NOMINAL: All of these are cases142where the right-hand member is a nounderived from a verb, either by affix .ing(sewing), -er (catcher) or some other affix(destruction).
Nominals with these typicallyhave left-hand stress if the left-hand membercan be construed as a grammatical object ofthe verb contained in the right-hand member:dog catcher, baby sitting, automobiledemolition.
On the other hand if the left-handmember is a subject of the verb in the right-hand member then stress is usually right-hand:woman swimmer, child dancing, studentdemonstration.NOUN-NOUN:  If both elements are nouns,and no other considerations intervene, left-hand stress occurs a majority of the time.Therefore a sort of default rule votes for left-hand stress when this pattern is matched.Examples of correct application include: doghouse, opera buff, memory cache.
Not muchweight is given to this possibility, sincesomething which is simply possibly a left-stressed noun-noun compound may be manyother things as well.
Complex typologies ofthe meaning relations in noun-nouncompounds can be found in Lees (1960),Quirk et al (1972), Levi (1978).
Thesetypologies cross-cut the stress regularities inodd ways, and are semantically ratherinhomogeneous as well, so their usefulness isquestionable.SELF: The left-hand member is the word self(e.g~, self promotion, self analysis...).
Right-hand stress is invariably assigned, since self isanaphoric, hence destressed following thenormal pattern for anaphors.PLACE-NAME: The right-hand member is aword like pond, mountain, avenue tc., and theleft-hand member is plausibly a name.
Thesecases get right-hand stress.
Obviously, namesending in the word Street are an exception(\[Madison Avenue\] vs. \[Wall Street\]).All of the applicable patterns for a givennominal are collected.
Each pattern has aweight.
For instance, as noted above, littleweight is given to the observation that aparticular nominal may be a noun-nouncompound, since the preterminal string \[IN N\]often belongs to categories that yield right-hand stress.
On the other hand, if the analysisand its stress pattern are almost certain, as it isfor sequences of the form \[self N\], then muchweight is given to this pattern.
The weightsarc tallied up as 'votes' for assigning to onemember or the other.
The pattern with themost votes wins.
Currently the weights areassigned in an ad hoe manner by hand; weplan to replace the manual weight assignmentwith the results of a statistical survey ofnominal types in various forms of English.3.
Assigning Stress to N.Ary NominalsGiven the stress pattern of binary cases,assigning stress to the general n-ary case isstraightforward.
The algorithm implementedis a version of one developed over the years byvarious researchers, including Chomsky andHalle (1968), Liberman and Prince (1977),Hayes (1980)~ Prince (1983) and others.
Mainstress is assigned to each level of constituentstructure recursively, with relative stress valuesnormally preserved as larger pieces ofstructure are considered.
A convenientrepresentation for tallying stress is the so-called 'metrical grid'; each word is associatedwith a set of marks or ticks on a grid whosehigher, sparser levels correspond to metricallymore important positions.
For example, dogcatcher would be represented as:(3)dog catcherThe fact that dog has two ticks as opposedto the one tick assigned to catcher is indicativeof the stress prominence of dog.When we combine two constituentstogether we upgrade the ticks of the highesttick-column of the weakest member to be thesame as the highest column of the strongestmember.
For instance if we combine dogcatcher with training school board meeting wewill proceed by the following method:143(4)* * to, * tO tO tO tOdog catcher + training school board meetingdog catcher training school board meetingAs a result, the most stressed element ineach subunit starts out at 'tick parity' with themost stressed element in the other subunit.We then increment one of these main stressesto make it the main stress of the entirenomina l :(5)dog catcher training school board meetingFinally the program tests for theapplicability of the so-called Rhythm Rule.Given the rules so far, for a nominal such asCity Hall parking lot we would expect thefollowing stress contour:(6)to *City Hall parking lotHowever, the actual stress contour is:4.
As pointed out in Liberman (1975), such bottom-uprecursive stress assignment algorithms can simply bethought of as the definition of a relation of relativeprominence on all the sets of sister nodes in the tree.
(7)City Hall parking lotThe Rhythm Rule removes clashesbetween strong stresses by moving the left-hand stress back to the most prominentprevious stress within the domain of the left-hand primary stress.4.
Performance of the Heuristic on 200 BinaryNominals.To get a rough idea of how well ourprogram is doing, we took 200 \[IN N\] nominalsfrom the Bell Labs News, and compared theperformance of the current heuristic with twoother procedures: (1) assigning stressuniformly to the right (which is what allcurrent text-to-speech systems would do insuch cases) and (2) assigning stress to the leftif and only if the binary nominal can beanalyzed as consisting of a noun followed by anoun.
We had made no previous effort todevelop heuristics appropriate for the contentof this source material.
The results were asfollows:(8) (i) Assigning uniform rightward stress:45% correct.
(ii) Assigning leftward stress if N-N:66%.
(iii) Current program: 80%.Of our program's 40-odd failures, thecause was insufficient information in roughly30 cases; only 10 were due to misanalysis.
Weclassified the failure as being due toinsufficient information when the programcould say nothing about the categorization ofeither member of the compound, or could onlyascertain that it might be dealing with a noun-noun sequence (which, the reader will recall,is given very little weight in making adecision).
For instance, the program knowsnothing about the stress properties of chemicalterms, which invariably have right-hand stress,and therefore failed on gallium arsenide andseveral similar expressions.
I f  the programhad some information about at least one of thewords, but still came up with the wrong144answer, then we classified the error as a caseof misanalysis.
The fact that most of theerrors were due to insufficient informationsuggests that the program can be improvedsubstantially by increasing its set of heuristicpatterns and its knowledge of word classes.We guess that 90-95% correct stress is aplausible goal for t'N N\] nominals, even intechnical writing, where our experiencesuggests that readers will assign left-hand andright-hand stress to such constituents withabout equal frequency.$.
The Parsing Issue.Our stress assignment program assumes aparsed input, not a reasonable option for aworking text-to-speech system.
There is somepractical value in correct stress assignment tobinary nominals only, since they arecommoner than longer ones in most kinds oftext; in the Tagged Brown Corpus (Francis andKuSera, 1982) we found that roughly 80% ofthe complex nominals were binary, 15% wereternary, and that therefore only about 5% hadmore than three members.
Still, a count of15% for ternary nominals is significant.Furthermore, higher percentages for complexnominals with more than two members areexpected for technical writing than areexhibited in the Brown Corpus.
We havetherefore also investigated the use of thestress-assignment heuristics in parsing nominalexpressions of higher complexity than binary.How would such patterns be useful?
Consideran expression like water supply control, towhich we would want to assign the structure\[\[water supply\] control\].
Given that weassume binary branching, we have twooptions, namely \[water \[supply control\]\] and\[\[water supply\] control\].
While the fn'stanalysis is not impossible, the second analysiswould be favored since one of our patternsreferences the word supply, and lists substancessuch as water among the types of things thatcan have supplies.
In effect, supply has a slotto its left which can optionally be filled by anoun referring to a substance or commodity ofsome kind, among which water is a prominentexample.
The word supply is not nearly soclose to the core examples of likely argumentsfor control.
Of course, listed complexnominals straightforwardly aid in  parsing: anominal such as City Hall parking lot is fairlyeasy to analyze given that in any case City Halland parking lot are in our phrasal exicon.It seems clear that substantial amounts oflexical knowledge are necessary to parsecomplex nominals.
This comes as no surprise,in light of much recent linguistic worksuggesting that a substantial portion oflinguistic knowledge resides 'in the lexicon.
'ReferencesBolinger, D. 1972.
Accent is Predictable (ifyou're a mind-reader).
Language48, 633-45.Chomsky, N. and M. Halle 1968.
The SoundPattern of English.
New York:Harper and Row.Finin, T. 1980.
The Semantic Interpretation ofCompound Nominals.
Doctoraldissertation, University of Illinois.Francis, W. N. and Ku~era, H. 1982.Frequency Analysis of EnglishUsage: Lexicon and Grammar.Boston: Houghton MifflinCompany.Fudge, E. 1984.
English Word-Stress.
Londonand Boston: Allen and Unwin.Hayes, B.
1980.
A Metrical Theory of StressRules.
Doctoral dissertation, MIT,distributed by Indiana UniversityLinguistics Club.lackendoff, R. X-bar Syntax: A Study ofPhrase-Structure.
Cambridge andLondon: MIT Press.Lees, R. 1960.
The Grammar of EnglishNominalizations.
Bloomington:Indiana University Press.Levi, J.
1978.
The Syntax and Semantics ofComplex Nominals.
New York andLondon: Academic Press.Liberman, M. 1975.
The Intonational System ofEnglish.
Doctoral dissertation,MIT, reprinted 1979 by Garland,New York and London.Liberman, M. and A.
Prince 1977.
On Stressand Linguistic Rhythm.
LinguisticInquiry 8, 249-336.Liberman, M. and R. Sproat 1986.
StressPatterns in English Noun Phrases.Ms., AT&T Bell Labs.145Marcus, M. 1980.
A Theory of SyntacticRecognition for Natural Language.Cambridge and London: MITPress.Prince, A.
1983.
Relating to the Grid.Linguistic Inquiry, 14, 19-100.Quirk, R., $.
Greenbanm and G. Leech 1972.A Grammar of ContemporaryEnglish.
London: Longman.Selkirk, E. 1984.
Phonology and Syntax.Cambridge and London: MITPress.146
