GETT ING ID IOMS INTO A LEX ICON BASED PARSERS HEADOliviero StockI.P.
- Consiglio Nazionale delle RicercheVia dei Monti Tiburtini 50900157 Roma, ItalyABSTRACTAn account is given of flexible idiom processing within alexicon based parser.
The view is a compositional one.The parser's behaviour is basically the "literal" one,unless a certain threshold is crossed by the weight of aparticular idiom.
A new process will then be added.
Theparser, besides yielding all idiomatic and literalinterpretations embodies some claims of humanprocessing simulation.1.
Mot ivat ion  and  compar i son  w i th  o therapproachesIdioms are a pervas ive  phenomenon in natura llanguages.
For instance, the first page of this paper(even if written by a non-native speaker) includes noless than halfdozen of them.
Linguists have proposeddifferent accounts for idioms, which are derived fromtwo basic points of view: one point of view considersidioms as the basic units of language, with holisticcharacteristics, perhaps including wordsasa particularcase; the other point of view emphasizes instead thefact that idioms are made up of normal parts of speech,that play a precise role in the complete idiom.
Anexplicit s tatement within this approach is thePrinciple of Decompositionality (Wasow, Sag andNunberg 1982): "When an expression admits analysisas morphologically or syntactically complex, assume asan operating hypothesis that the sense of the expressionarises from the composition of the senses of itsconstituent parts".
The syntactic consequence is thatidioms are not a different thing from "normal" forms.Our view is of the latter kind.
We are aware of the factthat the f lexibi l ity of an idiom, depends on howrecognizable its metaphorical origin is.
Within flexibleword order languages the flexibility of idioms seems tobe even more closely linked to the strengths ofparticular syntactic constructions.Let us now briefly discuss some computationalapproaches to idiom understanding.
Appl iedcomputational systems must necessarily have acapacity for analyzing idioms.
In some systems there isa preprocessor delegated to the recognition of idiomaticforms.
This preprocessor replaces the group of words thatmake for one idiom with the word or words thatconvey the meaning involved.
In ATN systemsinstead, specially if oriented towards a particulardomain, sometimes there are sequences of particulararcs inserted in the network, which, if transited, lead tothe recognition of a particular idiom (e.g.
PLANES,Waltz 1978).
L IFER (Hendrix 1977), one of the mostsuccessful applied systems, was based on a semanticg rammar ,  and within this mechan ism idiomrecognition was easy to implement, withoutconsidering flexibility.
Of course, in all these systemsthere is no intention to give an account of humanprocessing.
PHRAN (Wilensky and Arens 1980) is asystem based entirely on pattern recognition.
Idiomrecognition, following Fillmore's view (Fillmore 1979)is considered the basic resource all the way down toreplace the concept of g rammar  based parsing.
PHRANis based on a data base of patterns (including singlewords, at the same level), and proceedsdeterministically, applying the two principles "when indoubt choose the more specific pattern'* and "choose thelongest pattern'.
The limits of this approach lie in thecapacity of generating various alternativeinterpretations in case of ambiguity and in runningthe risk of having an eccessive spread of nonterminalsymbols if the data base of idioms is large.
A recentwork on idioms with a similar perspective is Dyer andZernik (1986).The approach we have followed is different.
The goals wehad with our work must be stated explicitly: I) to yield acognitive model of idiom processing; 2) to integrate52idioms in our lexical date, just  as further informationconcerning words (as in a tradit ional dictionary) 3) toinsert all this in the framework of WEDNESDAY 2(Stock 1986), a nondeterminist ic lexicon based parser.To anticipate the cognitive solution we are discussinghere: idiom understanding is based on normal syntacticanalys is  with word dr iven recognit ion in thebackground.
When a certain threshold is crossed bythe weight of a part icular idiom, the latter starts aprocess of its own, that  may eventual ly  lead to acomplete interpretation.Some of the questions we have dealt with are: how areidioms to be specified?
b) when are they recognized?
c)what  happens when they are recognized?
d) whathappensafterwards?2.
A summary  of WEDNESDAY 2WEDNESDAY 2 (Stock 1986) is a parser based onl inguist ic knowledge d is t r ibuted  fundamenta l lythrough the lexicon.
The general viewpoint of thelinguistic representation is not far from LFG (Kaplan& Bresnan 1982), although independently conceived.A word interpretation i cludes:- a semantic representat ion of the Word, in the form ofa semantic net shred;- static syntactic information, including the category,features, indication of l inguist ic functions that  arebound to particular nodes in the net.
One particularspecification is the Main node, the head of the syntacticconstituent the word occurs in;- dynamic syntactic information,  including impulses toconnect pieces of semant ic  information, guided bysyntactic constraints.
Impulses look for "fillers" on agiven search space.
They have a l ternat ives ,  (forinstance the word tell has an impulse to merge itsobject node with the Main node of either an NP or asubordinate clause).
An a l ternat ive includes: acontextual  condit ion of appl icabi l i ty,  a category,features, marking,  side effects (through which, forexample, coreference between subject of a subordinateclause and a funct ion of the main c lause can beindicated).
Impulses may also be directed to adifferent search space than  the normal  one with amechan ism that  can  dea l  w i th  long d is tancedependencies;- measures of likelihood.
These are measures that  areused in order to derive an overall measure of likelihoodof a partial analysis.
Measures are included for thelikelihood of that  particular eading of the word andfor aspects attached to an impulse: a) for one particularalternat ive b) for the relative position the filler c) forthe overall necessity offinding a ffiler.- a characterization of idioms involving that  word (seenext paragraph).The only other data that  the parser uses are in theform of simple (non augmented) transit ion etworksthat  only provide restrictions on search spaces whereimpulses can look for fillers.
In more tradit ional wordsthese  networks  dea l  w i th  the  d i s t r ibut ion  ofconstituents.
A distinguished symbol, SEXP, indicatesthat  only the occurrence of someth ing expected bypreceding words (i.e.
for which an impulse was set up)will allow the transition.
It is stressed that  inside aconstituent he position of elements can be free.
InWEDNESDAY 2 one can specify in a natura l  andnonredundant way, all the graduality from obligatorypositions, to obligatory precedences to s implelikelihoods of relative positions.The parser is based on an extension of the idea of chartparsing \[Kay 1980, Kaplan 1973\] \[see Stock 1986\].What  is relevant here is the fact that "edges" correspondto search spaces.
They are complex data structuresprovided with a rich amount of information includinga semantic interpretation of the fragment, syntacticdata, pending impulses, an overall measure oflikelihood etc.
Data on an edge are "unified"dynamically.Parsing goes basically bottom-up with top-downconfirmation, improving the so called Left Cornertechnique.
When a lexical edge with category C is addedto the chart, its First Left Cross References F(C) arefetched.
First Left Cross References are definedrecursively: for every lexical category C, the set ofinitial states that allow for transitions on C, or the set ofinitial states (without repetitions) that allow fortransitions on symbols in F(C).
So, for instance, F(Det)-- {NP,S~, at least.For each element in F(C) an edge of a special kind isadded to the chart.
These special edges are calledsleeping edges.
A sleeping edge at a vertex V~ isawakened, i.e.
causes the introduction of a normal activeedge iffthere is an active edge arriving at Vs that maybe extended with an edge with the category of S. If theyare not awakened, sleeping edges play no role at all inthe process.An  agenda is provided which includes tasks ofseveraldifferent ypes, including ~xical tasks, extension tasks,insertion tasks and virtual tasks.
A lexical task specifies53a possible reading era word to be introduced in the chartas an inactive edge.
An extension task specif ies anactive edge and an inactive edge that  can extend it(together with some more information).
An insertiontask specifies a nondeterministic unification operation.A virtual task consists in extending an active edge withan edge displaced to another  point of the sentence,according to the mechanism that  treats long distancedependencies.
At each stage the next task chosen forexecution is the value of a scheduling-selecting function.The parser works asymmetrical ly with respects to the"arr ival"  of the Main node: before the Main nodearrives, an extension of an edge causes a lmostnothing.
On the arr ival  of the Main, all the candidatefillers must find a compatible impulse end all impulsesconcerning the main node must find satisfaction, f la i lthis does not happen then the new edge supposedly tobe added to the chart  is not added: the s i tuat ion isrecognized as a failure.
After the arr ival  of the Main,each new head must find an impulse to merge with ,and each incoming impulse must  find sat isfact ion.Aga in ,  if all this does not happen, the new edge will notbe added to the chart.Dynamically, apart  from the general behaviour of theparser, there are some part icular restr ict ions for itsnondeterministic behaviour, that  put into effect syntax-based dynamic disambiguation.1) the SEXP arc al lows for a t rans i t ion  only if theconfiguration in the active edge includes an impulse tolink with the Main of the proposed inactive dge.2) The sleeping edge mechanism prevents edges notcompatible with the left context from being established.3) A search space can be closed only if no impulse thatwas specified as having to be satisfied remains.
In otherwords, if in a state with an outgoing EXIT arc, an activeedge can cause the establ ishing of an inactive edge onlyif there are no obligatory impulses left.4) A proposed new edge A' with a verb tense  notmatching the expected values causes a failure, i.e.
thatA' will not be introduced in the chart.5) Failure is caused by inadequate  mergings,  wi threlation to the presence, absence or ongoing introductionof the Main node.Compar ing  to the cr i ter ia  establ ished for LFG forfunctional compatibil ity of an f-structure \ [Kap lan &Bresnan 1982\], the following can be said of the dynamicsoutl ined here.
Incompleteness recognition performs asspecified in 3).
and furthermore there is an earlier checkwhen the Main arrives, in case there were obligatoryimpulses to be satisfied at  that  point (e.g.
an argumentthat  must  occur before the Main).
Incoherence iscompletely avoided after the Main has arrived, by the$EXP arc mechanism; before this point, it is recognizedas specified in 5) above, and causes an immediate failure.Inconsistency is detected as indicated in 4) and 5).
As faras 5) is concerned, though, the attitude is to "act ivate"impulses when the r ight premises are present and to"look for the r ight thing" and not to "check if what  wasdone is consistent".Note that a morphological analyzer, WED-MORPH,linked to WEDNESDAY 2, plays a substantial role,specially if the language is Italian.
In Italian you mayfind words like rifacendogliene, that  stands for whilemaking some (of them) for him again.
Themorphological analyzer not only recognizes complexforms, but must  be able to put  together  complexconstraints originated in part by the stem and in part  bythe  a f f ixes .
The  same ho lds  for the  semant icrepresentat ion  and will have consequences  in ourdea l ing wi th  idioms.
Fig.
I shows a d iagram ofWEDNESDAY 2sentence unHi?a l ,on  F - - - -i .....
.
"o?o0+"'1 I " I I i /procussor I i lFig.
13.
Specification of idioms in the lexiconIdioms are introduced in the lexicon as fur therspecifications of words, just as in a normal dictionary.They may be of two types: a) canned phrases, that  justbehave as several-word entries in the lexicon (there isnothing particularly interesting in that,  so we shal l  notgo into detail  here); b) flexible idioms; these idioms are54described in the lexicon bound to the particular wordrepresent ing  the  " thread"  of that  id iom;  inWEDNESDAY 2 terms, this is the word that  bears theMain of the immediate const i tuent  including theidiom.
Thus, Lfwe have an idiom like to build castlesin the a i r ,  it  will be described along with the verb, tobuild.After the normal word specifications, the word mayinclude a list of idiomatic entries.
Fig.2 shows a BNFspecification of idioms in the lexicon.
The symbol +stands for "at least one occurrence of what precedes").Each idiom is described in two sections: the first onedescribes the elements that  characterize that  idiom,expressed coherently with the normal characterizationof the word, the second one describes the interpretation,i.e.
which substitutions should be performed when theidiom is recognized.Let us briefly describe Fig.
2.
The lexicalform indicateswhether passivization (that in our theory, like in LFG, istreated in the lexicon) is admit ted in the idiomaticreading.
The idiom.stats, describing configurations ofthe components of an idiom, are based on the basicimpulses included in the word.
In other  wordsconstituents of an idiom are described as particularfillers of l inguistic functions or particular modifiers.For example build castles in the air, when build is in anactive form, has castles as a further description of thefiller of the OBJ  function and the string in the air as afurther specification of a particular modifier that maybe attached to the Main node.
MORESPECIF IC ,  thefurther specification of an impulse to set a filler for afunction includes: a reference to one of the possiblealternat ive types of id lers specif ied in the normalimpulse, a specification that  describes the f ragmentthat  is to play this particular ole in the idiom, and thewe ight  that  th i s  component  has  in the  overa l lrecognition of the idiom.
IDMODIFIER is a specificationof a modifier, including the description of the fragmentand the weight of this component.
CHANGEIMPULSEand REMOVEIMPUI~E consent an alterat ion of thenormal syntactic behaviour.
The former specifies a newal ternat ive for a fi l ler for an ex is t ing function,including the description of the component and itsweight (for instance the new a l te rnat ive  may be apartial  NP instead of a complete NP (as in take care), ora NP marked di f ferent ly from usual).
The la t terspecifies that  a certain impulse, specified for the word,is to be considered to have been removed for this idiomdescription.There are a number of possible f ragment specifications,inc lud ing  s t r ing  pat terns ,  semant ic  pat terns ,morphological variations, coreferences tc.Substitutions include the semantics of the idiom, whichare supposed to take the place of the l i teral semantics,plus the specfication of the new Main and of thebindings for the functions.
New bindings may beincluded to specify new semantic l inkings not present inthe l iteral meaning (e.g.
take care of  ~:someone~, if themeaning is to attend to <:someone,, then <:somcone ~must become an argument  of attend).< idioms > :: ffi (IDIOMS < idiomentry > + )<idiomentry > :: ffi ( < lexicalform > < idiom-stat > + SUBSTITUTIONS < idiomsubst > + )< lexical?orm >:: = T/(NOT-PASSIVE)<idiom-star >:: ffi (MORESPECIFIC < lingfunc > <a l te rnnum > < fragmentspec > <weight>) /(CHANGEIMPULSE < lingfunc > <a l te rnat ive> + <f ragmentspec> <weight>) /(IDMODIFIER <fragmentspec> <weight>) /(REMOVEIMPULSE <lingfunc >)<al ternat ive >:: =(<test> < fillertype > <beforelh > <features> <mark> <sideffect > < fragmentspec >)< fragmentspec > :: --- (WORD < word >)/(FIXWORDS < wordseq >)/(FIRSTWORDS < wordseq >)/(MORPHWORD < wordroot > )/(SEM (< concept > + ) < prep >)/(EQSUBJ)<idiomsubst > :: ffi (SEM-UNITS < sem-unit > + )/(MAIN < node >)/(BINDINGS(< lingfunc > < node >)  + )/{NEWBINDINGS( < node > < lingfunc path >)  + )Fig.
2554.. Idiom processingIdiom processing works in WEDNESDAY 2integrated in the nondeterministic, multiprocessing-based behaviour of the parser.
As the normal (literal)analysis proceeds and partial representations arebuilt, impulses are monitored in the background,checking for possible idiomatic fragments.
Monitoring iscarried on only for fragments of idioms not in contrastwith the present configuration.
A dynamic activationtable is introduced with the occurrence of a word thathas some idiom specification associated.
Occurrence ofan expected fragment of an idiom in the table raises thelevel of activation of that idiom, in proportion to therelative weight of the fragment.
If the configuration ofthe sentence contrasts with one fragment then therelative idiom is discarded from the table.
So all thenormal processing oes on, including the possiblenondeterministic hoices, the establishing of newprocesses etc.
The activation tables are included in theedges of the chart.When the activation level of a particular idiom crosses afixed threshold, a new process is introduced,dedicated to that particular idiom.
In that process,only that, idiomatic interpretation is considered.
Thus,in the first place, an edge is introduced, in whichsubstitutions are carried on; the process will proceedwith the idiomatic representation.
Note that theprocess begins at that precise point, with all theprevious literal analysis acquired to  the  idiomaticanalysis.
The original process goes on as well (unlessthe fragment hat caused the new process is nonsyntactic and only peculiar to that idiom); only, theidiom is removed from the active idiom table.
At thispoint there are two working processes and it is amatter of the (external) scheduling function to decidepriorities.
What is relevant is: a) still, the idiomaticprocess may result in a failure: further analysis maynot confirm what has been hypothesized asan idiom; b)a different idiomatic process may be parted from theliteral process at a later stage, when its own activationlevel crosses the threshold.Altogether, this yields all the analyses, literal andidiomatic,  with l ikel ihoods for the d i f fe rentinterpretations In addition, it seems a reasonablemodel of how humans process idioms.
Somepsycholinguistic experiments have supported this view(Cacciari & Stock, in preparation) which is alsocompatible with the model presented by Swinney andCutler (1978).Here we have disregarded the situation in which apossible idiomatic form occurs and its role indisambiguating.
The whole parsing mechanism inWEDNESDAY 2 is based on dynamic unification, i.e.at every step in the parsing process a partialinterpretation is provided; dynamic choices areperformed scheduling the agenda on the base of therelation between partial interpretations and the context.5.
An exampleAs an example let us consider the Italian idiom prendere// toro per /e corn~ (literally: to take the bull by thehorns; idiomatically: to confront a difficult situation).The verb prendere (to take) in the lexicon includessome descriptions of idioms.
Fig.
3 shows therepresentation f prendere in the lexicon.
The stemrepresentation will be unified with other informationand constraints coming from the affixes involved in aparticular form of the verb.
The fwst portion of therepresentation is devoted to the literal interpretation fthe word, and includes the semantic representation, thel/kelihood of that reading, and fimctional information,included the specification of impulses for unification.The numbers are likelihoods of the presence of anargument or of a relative position of an argument.
The(sere-traits (nl(p-take n2 n3)))(likeliradix 0.8)(ma/n nl)(lingfunctions ( ubj n2Xobj n3))(cat v)(un/(subj)(must 0.7)((t np 0.9 nil nora)))(uni (obj)(must)((t np 0.3 nil acc)))(idioms ((t(morespocific (obj) 1 (fixwords il taro) 8)(idmodifier (fixwords per le coma) 10)substitutions(sere-units (ml(p-confront m2 m3))(m4 (p-situation m3))(m5 (p-difficult m3)))(main ml)(bindings (subj m2))\]Fig.
356second portion, after "idioms" includes the idiomsinvolving "prendere".
In Fig.
3 only one such idiom isspecified.
It is indicated that the idiom can also occur ina passive form and the specification of the expectedfragments is given.
The nmnbers here are the weightsof the fragments (the threshold is fixed to 10).
Thesubstitutions include the new semantic representation,with the specification el" the main ,rode and of thebinding of the subject.
Note that the surface functionalrepresentat ion  will not be destroyed af ter  thesubstitutions, only the semantic (logical} representationwill be recomputed, imposing its own bindings.As mentioned, Italian allows great flexibility.
Let theinput sentence be rinformatieo prese per le corna lacapra (literally: the computer scientist ook by the hornsthe goat}.
When prese (took) is analyzed its idiomactivation table is inserted.
When the modifier per lecorna (by the horns) shows up, the activation of theidiom referred to above crosses the threshold (the sum ofthe two weights goes up to 12).
A new process tarts atthis point, with the new interpretation unified with theprevious interpretation of the Subject.
Also, semanticspecifications coming from the suffixes are reused in thenew partial interpretation.
The process just departs fromthe literal process, no backtracking is performed.
Atthis point we have two processes going on: an idiomaticprocess, where the interpretation is already thecomputer scientist is confronting a difficult situationand a literal process, where, in the background, stillother active idioms monitor the events.
In fig.
4 thetwo semantic representations, in the form of semanticnetworks, are shown.
When the last NP, la capra (thegoat), is recognized, the idiq)matic proce.,~ fails(it nee(ledthe hull as ()bjcct).
The l iteral pr ,cess yichls itsanalysis, but.
also.
another idiom crosses thethreshold, starts its process with the substitutionsand immediately concludes positively.
This latter.unlikely, idiomatic interpretation means the computerscientist confused the goat and the horns.6.
Implementat ionWEDNESDAY 2 is implemented in lnterlisp-D andruns on a Xerox 1186.
The idiom recognition abilitywas easi ly  in tegrated into the system.
Theperformance is very satisfying, in particular withregard to the flexibility present in Italian.
Around theparser a rich environment has been built.
Besidesallowing easy editing and graphic inspecting ofresulting structures, it allows interaction with theagenda and exploration of heuristics in order to drivethe multiprocessing mechanism of WEDNESDAY 2.Cl'fl0~ C~I ;C3 C10113~ ~,~113~ C31"f3fq C41140a)/ , .
.
/1  ~ ~ \ t  - - / *  / \ z  i~"  111  / " \ ~  | \ z  I - ' - / I "- -  11a~p ~.t~4 P-BY C1110?
.
.
.
.
.
,lld~ ~p.TQ-TNK.F ;(11~06 ~O'&b)Fig.
457This environment constitutes a basic resource forexploring cognitive aspects, complementary tolaboratory experiments with humans.At present  we are also working on animplementation f a generator that includes the abilityto produce idioms, based on the same data structure andprinciples as the parser.AcknowledgementsThanks to Cristina Cacciari for many discussions and toFederico Cecconi for his continuous help.Wasow, T., Sag, I., Nunberg, G. Idioms: an interimreport.
Preprints of the International Congress ofLinguistics, 87-96, Tokyo (1982)Wllensky, R. &Arens, Y. PHRAN.
A Knowledge BasedApproach to Natural Language Analysis.
University ofCal i fornia at Berkeley, ERL Memorandum No.UCB/ERL M80/34 (1980).Re ferencesDyer, M. & Zernik, U. Encoding and Acquiring Meaningfor Figurative Phrases.
In Proceedings of the 24thMeeting of the Association for ComputationalLinguistics.
New York (1986)Fillmore, C. Innocence: a Second Ideal ization forLinguistics.
In Proceedings of th~ Fifth Annual Meetingof the Berkeley Linguistics Society.
University ofCalifornia t Berkeley, 63-76 (1979).Hendrix, G.G.
LIFEP~ a Natural Language InterfaceFacility.
SlGARTNewsletter Vol.
61 (1977).Kaplan, R. A general syntactic processor.
In Rnstin, R.(Ed.
), Natural Language Processing.
Englewood Cliffs,N.J.
: Prentice-Hall (1973)Kaplan,R.
& Bresnan~I.
Lexical-Functional Grammar: aformal system for grammatical representation.
InBresnan, J .
,  Ed.
The Mental Representation ofGrammatical Relations.
The MIT Press, Cambridge,173-281(1982)Kay, M. Algorithm Schemata nd Data Structures inSyntactic Processing.
Report CSL-80-12, Xerox, PaleAlto Research Center, Pale Alto (1980)Stock, O.
Dynamic Unification in Lexically BasedParsing.
In Proceedings of the Seventh EuropeanConference on Artificial Intelligence.
Brighton, 212-221(1986)Swinney, D~A., & Cutler, A.
The Access and Processingof Idiomatic Expressions.
Journal of Verbal Learningand Verbal Beh~viour, 18, 523-534(1978)Waltz, D. An English Language Question AnsweringSystem for a Large Re la t iona l  Database .Communications ofthe of the Association for ComputingMachinery, Vol.
21, N. 7 (1978).58
