THE INTERPRETAT ION OF TENSE AND ASPECT IN ENGL ISHMary DalrympleArtificial Intelligence CenterSRI International333 Ravenswood AvenueMenlo Park, California 94025 USAABSTRACTAn analysis of English tense and aspect is pre-sented that specifies temporal precedence r lationswithin a sentence.
The relevant reference pointsfor interpretation are taken to be the initial andterminal points of events in the world, as well astwo "hypothetical" times: the perfect ime (whena sentence contains perfect aspect) and the pro-gressive or during time.
A method for providingtemporal interpretation for nontensed elements inthe sentence is also described.1.
In t roduct ionThe analysis of tense and aspect requires pec-ifying what relations can or cannot hold amongtimes and events, given a sentence describing thoseevents.
1 For example, a specification of the mean-ing of the past-tense sentence "John ate a cake"involves the fact that the time of the main event -in this case, the cake-eating event - precedes thetime of utterance of the sentence.
Various pro-posals have also been made regarding the analysisof aspect which involve auxiliary times or events,whereby the proper elationship of these auxiliarytimes or events to "real" main events is specified.We provide an analysis of English tense andaspect that involves specifying relations amongtimes rather than events.
We also offer a means ofinterpreting tenseless elements like nouns and ad-jectives whose interpretation may be temporallydependent.
For example, the noun phrase "thewarm cakes" picks out different sets of cakes, de-pending on the time relative to which it'receivesan interpretation.The analysis presented here has been imple-mented with the Prolog data base query system1The work presented here was supported by SP, I In-ternational.
I am grateful to Phil Cohen, Bill Croft, DougEdwards, Jerry Hobbe, Doug Moran, and Fernando Perelmfor helpful discussion and comments.CHAT (Pereira 1983), and the representations arebased on those used in that system.
We shallshow that an analysis of tense and aspect involv-ing specification of relations among times ratherthan among events results in a clean analysis ofvarious types of sentences.2.
T ime PointsHarper and Charniak (1986) \[henceforth H&C\]provide an interesting and revealing analysis ofEnglish tense and aspect involving relations be-tween events.
There are several kinds of events:the u~terance event, which is associated with thetime of the utterance; the main event, or the eventbeing described by the main verb of the sentence;the perfecg event; and the progressivJe event.
Therepresentation f every sentence involves the ut-terance vent and the main event; sentences withprogressive or perfect aspect also involve progres-sive or perfect events.This treatment is quite different from the Re-ichenbach (1947) conception of "reference time",which is assumed to be relevant for all sentences.To translate between the two systems, the refer-ence time may be thought of as being representedby the perfect event in perfect sentences and bythe progressive event in progressive sentences.
Inthe case of perfect progressives, one might con-sider that there are two reference vents, while insimple tenses there is no reference vent at all.Alternatively, in a system like Webber (1987) inwhich reference points for each sentence are usedto construct an event structure, the tensed event(what H&C call the "anchor event") is the rele-vant one: the perfect event for sentences with per-fect aspect; for sentences with progressive but noperfect aspect, the progressive event; or the mainevent for simple tense sentences.
22 Although ins ta~s  rather than  events are used in therepresentation described here, a similar strategy would beemployable in buildin 5 up a Webber-style vent structure.68In accordance with H&C, we propose perfectreference points for sentences with perfect aspectand progressive r ference points for sentences withprogressive aspect.
Thus, the interpretation ofeach sentence involves a number of relevant imes:the beginning and end of the event described bythe main verb for all sentences, the perfect ime ifit has perfect aspect, and the progressive time ifit has progressive aspect.
In our analysis, unlikeH&C, what is relevant for the interpretation ofsentences is not a set of events (which have po-tential duration and beginning and end points)but a set of times or instants.
Instants, unlikeevents, have no beginning or end: they are one-dimensional points.
This has several advantagesover an analysis such as H&C, in which the per-fect and progressive reference points are events.First, if the reference points for perfect and pro-gressive sentences are events rather than instants,it ought to be possible to predicate duration ofthem.
However, this is not a possible option forperfect and progressive sentences; durational ad-juncts are only interpreted relative to the mainevent.
The sentence "John has swum for threehours" is only true when the duration of the mainevent (the swimming event) is three hours.Second, relations among events in H&C's sys-tem reduce anyway to relations between instants:the starting and ending points of events.
That is,the primitives of systems like H&C's are relationsamong times.
There seems to be little to be gainedfrom constructing hypothetical events based onthese relations when a simpler and cleaner analysiscan be constructed on the basis of these primitivenotions alone.There might seem to be the following objectionto adopting times as relevant for the interpreta-tion of sentences: given a sentence like 'John wasfrosting a cake from 3:00 to 4:00 yesterday', weknow about the progressive reference point onlythat it lies between 3:00 and 4:00; there are in-finitely many instants satisfying that condition.It would be impossible to iterate over all of thesetimes to determine the truth of any utterance.
Infact, though, to determine whether a sentence con-taining perfect or progressive aspect is true, it isunnecessary to instantiate the perfect or progres-sive reference times to specific values; it suffices toshow that an interval exists within which such apoint can be found.
That is, they are merely ex-istentially quantified, not instantiated to a value.In this manner, perfect or progressive times maygive the appearance ofbeing similar to events witha starting and an ending point, because they areconstrained only to exist within some nonnull in-terval.
Checking whether or not the sentence istrue involves determining whether the interval ex-ists.The following is the representation for the sim-ple past sentence "John frosted a cake", withwords in upper case representing variables andwords in lower case representing predicate namesor constants:(1) ezists X Start Endholds(frost(john, X), Start, End)g_4 cake(X)g~ precede(End, now)The predicate holds in the first clause of the repre-sentation takes three arguments, representing thepredicate and the beginning and ending times ofthe event.
In other words, John frosted X fromtime Start to time End.
The predicate cake(X)specifies that the thing John frosted was a cake.We do not represent this with a holds predicatebecause we assume that the property of being acake is a static property, not one that changes overtime.SThe predicate precede(End, now) specifies thatthe ending time End of the cake-frosting eventmust precede now, the current ime.
In the courseof validating this logical form, the variable Endwill be instantiated to a numerical value, and theatom now will be replaced by the value of the cur-rent time.
The predicate precede represents theless-than-or-equal-to relation, while the predicatestrictly.precede r presents the leas-than relation.Thus, the cake-frosting event must occur in thepast.Let us next consider the semantic representationof a sentence with perfect aspect, "John will havefrosted a cake":(2) ezists X Start End Perfectholds(frost(john, X), Start, End)cake(X)g~ precede(End, Perfect)strictly_precede(now, Perfect)3Th\]s is not a necessary part of the analysis; the repre-sentation has  been chosen in part for the sake of simplicity.It would also be possible to represent the predicate cake(X)inside a holdJ predicate, with the Start and End t lmes rep-rosent~ag when the cake began and ceased to exist.69The interpretation of perfect sentences involvesa perfect ime Perfect.
This time is constrainedto follow the main event; this is enforced by theclause precede(End, Perfect).
Since this is a futureperfect sentence, Perfect is constrained to be inthe future.
The future tense is represented by thepredicate strictly_precede; the perfect time mustfollow now (not coincide with it).Note, therefore, that in the case of future per-fect sentences the main event is required only toend before a time in the future, and that (as withH&C) it is not a contradiction to say "John willhave arrived by tomorrow, and he may alreadyhave arrived."
Unlike analyses in which relationsamong all reference points are fully specified, thisanalysis allows the main event to be in the pasteven though the sentence itself is in the future per-fect.The following is a representation f the past pro-gressive "John was frosting a cake":(3) e~ists X Start End Progressiveholds(frost(john, X), Start, End)cake(X)precede(Start, Progressive)precede(Progressive, End)precede(Progressive, note)Here the progressive time, represented by thevariable Progressive, must occur during the cake-frosting event; that is, it must occur after the startand before the end of the main event.
Since thesentence is a past progressive, there is a final re-quirement on Progressive: it must precede note.Notice that past progressives differ from simplepast sentences in that it is the progressive timeand not the ending time of the main event thatis required to be in the past.
Consequently, as inH&~C, the interpretation of a past progressive like"John was frosting a cake" does not require thatthe main event lie entirely in the past, but onlythat some part of it he in the past.
The presentanalysis allows for the possibility that sentenceslike the following can be true:(4) John was frosting a cake at 3:00, and he isstill frosting it.We shall see in the next section that what wasreferred to as the progressive time in the forego-ing example actually appears in the representationnot only of progressives, but of every sentence, aswhat we shall call the during time.
The duringtime will be used in the temporal interpretation fnontensed elements in the sentence.
For this rea-son, the above representations of the simple pastand future perfect sentences above were only a firstapproximation; actually, their complete represen-tations also contain a during time.Finally, the representation f a sentence withboth progressive and perfect aspect, like "Johnwill have been frosting a cake", is the following:(5) exists X Start End Progressive Perfectholds(frost(john, X), Start, End)cake(X)precede(Start, Progressive)precede(Progressive, End)precede(Progressive, Perfect)strictly.precede(now, Perfect)Progressive, the progressive or during time, occursduring the cake-frosting event.
Progressive is con-strained by the clause precede(Progressive, P r-fect) to precede the perfect ime Perfect.
In otherwords, for a perfect progressive sentence, the re-quirement is that some portion of the main eventlie before the perfect time.
The perfect time is con-strained by the clause strictly_precede(now, Per-fect) to lie in the future.In this analysis, underspecification f relationsamong times yields results that match the natural-language semantics of sentences.
4 Use of a perfectand a progressive time allows uniform treatmentof perfects and progressives without the compli-cation of introducing unwarranted pseudo-eventsinto the representation f simple tenses.
Also, theprogressive/during time is useful as an anchor forthe interpretation of nontensed elements, as wewill see below.3.
Tempora l  In terpretat ion  of  NontensedE lementsNot only tensed verbs, but also other nontensedelements in the sentence - adjectives, nouns,prepositions, and so on - must be temporally in-terpreted.
Consider the sentence "Are there anywarm cakes?"
The adjective "warm" must be in-terpreted relative to some time: in this case, the4 We have not yet enriched the representation of individ-ual predicates to include inherent aspect, as described in,for example, Pammneau (1987).
We feel, though, that theresulting representatione will sti~ involve the tree of perfectand during times, and will still be amenable to the treat~merit of nontensed elemclats described in the next section.70present.
The question is about cakes that are cur-rently warm.The interpretation of nontensed elements doesnot always depend on the utterance time, though.The sentence "The third-year students had to takean exam last year" can be interpreted in two ways.Under one interpretation, those who were third-year students last year (the current fourth-yearstudents) had to take a test last year.
The inter-pretation of the noun phrase "the third-year stu-dents" is dependent on the tense of the main verbin this case.
Under the other interpretation, thosewho are currently third-year students took a testlast year, when they were second-year students.However, the interpretation of nontensed ele-ments with respect to the tense of the main verbin the sentence is not entirely unconstrained.
Con-sider the sentence "The wife of the president wasworking in K-Mart in 1975."
"Wife" and '~)resi-dent" are both predicates that must be interpretedwith respect to a particular time.
The currentpresident is not the same as the 1975 president;if he divorced and remarried, his 1975 wife is notnecessarily the same person as his current wife.Given this, there ought to be four possible inter-pretations of this sentence.
In fact, there are onlythree:* He is the current president and she is his cur-rent wife?
He is the current president and she was hiswife in 1975?
He was the president in 1975 and she washis wife then (but perhaps he is divorced and nolonger president)The missing interpretation is that?
He was the president in 1975 and she is hiscurrent wife (but was not his wife then)A skeletal tree for this example is shown in Fig-ure 1.
The sentence involves the syntactic embed-ding of one NP  ("the president") inside anotherNP  ("the wife").
The unavailable interpretationis one in which the embedded NP  is interpretedwith respect to the event time of the higher verb,whereas the intervening NP  is not.
That is, theunavailable interpretation involves interpreting adiscontinuous portion of the parse tree of the sen-tence with respect to the main verb.
5s As we will see in the next section, it is possible to con-struct ~ context in which the "missing interpretation" is infact available for this sentence.
The clahn ~,~\]e here is thatthis interpretation is not available by means of the syntacticvariable-passing mechanism discussed in this section, butOne may think of the main-verb event time asbeing passed or disseminated through the tree.
Itmay be passed down to embedded predicates inthe tree only when it is passed through interme-diate predicates and used in their interpretation.If a predication is interpreted with respect o thecurrent time rather than to the event time of themain verb, all predications that are syntacticallysubordinate to it are also interpreted with respectto the current time.
When this happens, the main-verb event time ceases to be passed down and maynot be reinstated for interpretation.Note, however, that the verb time and the timewith respect to which the nontensed elements areinterpreted are not always completely coextensive.Consider again the example "John will be frost-ing a warm cake at 3:00."
Under the interpreta-tion that the cake is warm while John is frostingit, the time span during which the cake is warmmust include the time 3:00; however, the startingand ending points of the cake-frosting event neednot coincide exactly with the starting and endingpoints of the interval at which the cake is warm.The only requirement is that both events musthold at 3:00.Now consider the sentence "John built a newhouse."
The building event can be thought of asbeginning before the event of the house's beingnew.
At the start of the building event, there isno house, nor, obviously, is there is any event ofthe house's being new.
In a situation like this, onedoes not want to require that the building eventbe coextensive with the event of the house's beingnew, but rather, merely to require that the twoevents should overlap.Our claim is that, in general, temporal interpre-tation of nontensed elements relative to the tenseof the main verb of the sentence requires only thatthe event denoted by the main verb overlap (not becoextensive with or be contained in) the events de-noted by the nontensed elements.
We shall accom-plish this by positing a time for each tensed verb,the during time, and passing this time through thesyntactic tree.
The event denoted by the mainverb, as well as the events denoted by any predi-cates interpreted relative to the main verb, musthold at this during time.For example, here is the logical form for the sen-tence "John frosted a warm cake" :is only ~vailable by appea~ to the context constructed.The %nixing interpretation" is missing when there is nocontext o refe~ to for addition~ interpretations.71SNPy ~ppthewife / ~P NPtof tl~e presidentVPwas working in K-Mart in 1975Figure 1(6) ezists X Startl End1 Slart~ End~ Duringholds(frost(john, X), Start1, End1)cake(X)precede(End1, now)precede(Start1, During)precede(Daring, End)hotdsCwarmCX), Szar~, End~)precede(S~artl, During)precede(Daring, End)There are two predicates in this example thatare interpreted with respect o a temporal inter-val: warm and frost.
There must be a during timeDuring that occurs during both the cake-frostingevent and the event of the cake's being warm: thetwo events must overlap.We further note that all elements within a NPnode are interpreted with respect o the sameevent.
It is not possible, for example, to interpretsome elements of a noun phrase with respect to thetime of utterance, others with respect to the mainverb's during time.
Consider the sentence "Johnfrosted three stale warm cakes yesterday."
Despitethe pragmatic predilection for interpreting "stale"and "warm" at different times (it is hard to imag-ine how cakes that are still warm could already bestale), this sentence has only two interpretations:?
John frosted three cakes that were both staleand warm yesterday.?
John frosted three cakes yesterday that areboth stale and warm now.It is not possible to give the sentence the interpre-tation that the cakes he frosted were warm yes-terday and are stale now, or were stale yesterdayand are warm now.
Both adjectives must be in-terpreted with respect to the same time.If a system like H&C,  in which events andnot instants are taken to be the relevant refer-ence points, were extended to include interpre-tation of nontensed elements as described here,such a system might use primitives such as thoseof Allen (1984).
However, none of the primi-tives of Allen's system is suitable for defining therelation of the during time to the main event:during(DuringEvent, MainEvent) isnot sufficient,since Allen's "during" relation does not permit heDuringEvent to coincide with the beginning or endpoints of the main event.
The example "Johnbuilt a new house" shows that this is necessary;in this case, it is precisely the end point of thebuilding event that coincides with the beginningof the event of the house being new.
In a systemusing Allen's primitives, the proper relation be-tween the DuringEvent and the MainEvent wouldbe a disjunction:(7) during(DuringEvent, MainEvent) ORstarts(DuringEvent, MainEvent) ORends(DuringEvent, MainEvent)4.
Passing the During Time: Rules forTemporal Interpretat ionIn the previous ection, we examined the tem-poral interpretation of phrases with respect othe during time of the main verb.
In addition,72we proposed a constraint on the passing of thisduring time from the verb through its argumentsand adjuncts, according to which predicates inter-preted according to the during time must occupya nondiscontinuous portion of the tree.
From thepoint of view of the tenseless phrase, however, thesame process can be seen in a different light.We may think of the interpretation of tempo-rally dependent elements in.a phrase as proceedingin the following manner:?
The phrase is interpreted with respect o atemporal modifier internal to the phrase; other-wise?
The phrase is interpreted with respect o theclosest higher tensed element (allowing for restric-tions on the distribution of the during variable);otherwise?
The phrase is interpreted with respect o somecontextually relevant ime.Temporally dependent nontensed elements inprevious ections were always contained in phrasesthat lacked internal temporal modifiers, so the firstoption was not applicable.
One of two interpreta-tions was given for tenseless elements: they wereinterpreted either with respect o the during timeof the main verb or with respect o now, the timeof utterance.
Interpretation with respect o nowseems to be a particular instance of the generalpossibifity of interpretation with respect o a con-textually relevant time; since no context was givenfor the examples in the previous ections, no othercontextually relevant ime was available.
When aphrase contains a phrase-internal temporal modi-fier, the predicates in that phrase must be inter-preted with respect o that modifier, as in the ex-ample "The 1975 president is living in California.
"The modifier "1975" in the phrase "the 1975 pres-ident" provides the temporal interpretation of thephrase: it must be interpreted with respect to thattime.
It is not possible to interpret "president"relative to the during time of the main verb.Hinrichs (1987) also proposes that noun phrasesbe interpreted relative to a time restricted by thecontext; the difference between his analysis andours is that, of the three options presented above,he offers only the last.
He contends that the onlyoption for temporal interpretation ofnontensed el-ements is the third one, namely, by reference tocontext.Given an analysis like that of Hinrichs, it is dif-ficult to explain the facts noted in the precedingsection.
In the absence of context (or when thesole context is the moment of utterance), Hinrichswould not predict the absence of one reading forsentences such as "The wife of the president wasworking in K-Mart in 1975."
In an analysis likethe one presented here, where the interpretationof nontensed elements is determinable in some in-stances through syntactic processes, the absenceof these readings is expected.Enc (1981) and Hinrichs (1987) both argue con-vincingly that there are many instances in which atemporally dependent element is interpreted withrespect o a time that is neither the during timenor now.
Hinrichs furnishes the following example:(8) Oliver North's secretary testified before thecommittee.At the time she testified, she was no longer his sec-retary; she-was also not his secretary at the timethis sentence was uttered.
The sentence would re-ceive the following interpretation:(9) exists X Startl End1 DuringlStart2 End~ During2holds(secretary(north, X), Start1, End1)precede(Start1, Duringl)precede(During1, End1)~4 hotdsOestify(X), StartS, End2)g~ precede(Start2, During~)g~ precede(During2, End~)precede(During2, now)There are two events described in the logical formof this sentence: the event of X being North's sec-retary and the event of X testifying.
Daring1 is atime during the being-a-secretary event, and Dur-ing2 is a time during the testifying event.
Theevents are not required to overlap, and only the"testify" event is restricted by the tense of thesentence to occur in the past.
In a more completerepresentation, appropriate restrictions would beimposed on During1: the time during which X isa secretary would be restricted by the context, inline with Hinrichs' suggestions.5.
Fur ther  Resul tsIt appears that the during time of the mainclause is used in the interpretation of some tensedsubordinate clauses: for example, in the interpre-tation of relative clauses.
Consider the sentence"He will catch the dog that is running."
Underone interpretation of this sentence, the catchingevent is simultaneous with the running event -73both events take place in the future.
In this case,the interpretation of the main verb in the relativeclause depends on the during time of the mainclause.
There is also another interpretation, ac-cording to which the dog that will be caught lateris running now.
In this case, the interpretation ofthe relative clause depends on the time of utter-ance of the sentence.One remaining task is to provide a reasonableanalysis of the bare present using this system.
Wefeel that such an analysis awaits the incorporationof a representation f inherent lexical aspect as inPassoneau (1987); without a representation f thedistinction between (for example) states and activ-ities, a coherent representation f simple presenttense sentences i  not possible.7.
ConclusionWe have shown that distributing an existen-tially quantified uring~time variable throughoutthe tree enables interpretation of nontensed ele-ments in the sentence according to the time of themain verb.
Further, the during time is useful in theinterpretation of several sentence types: progres-sivss, statives, and sentences containing relativeclauses.
Finally, an analysis that utilizes under-specified relations among times (not events) pro-vides a good prospect for analyzing tense and as-pect in English.rina Del Rey, California.
: Information Sciences In-stitute.Passoneau, Rebecca.
1987.
"Situations andIntervals."
Proceedings of the ACL Conference,Stanford University, Stanford, California.Pereira, Fernando.
1983.
"Logic for NaturalLanguage Analysis."
Technical Note 275.
MenloPark, California.
: SRI International.Reichenbach, Hans.
1947.
Elements of SymbolicLogic.
New York, New York: Macmillan.Webber, Bonnie.
1987.
"The Interpretation ofTense in Discourse."
Proceedings of the ACL  Con-ference, Stanford University, Stanford, California.ReferencesAllen, James F. 1984.
"Towards a General The-ory of Action and Time."
Artificial Intelligence23:2, July 1984.Enc, Murvet.
1981.
"Tense without Scope: AnAnalysis of Nouns as Indexicals."
Ph.D. disserta-tion, University of Wisconsin, Madison, Wiscon-sin.Harper, Mary P. and Eugene Charniak.
1986.
"Time and Tense in English."
Proceedings of theACL  Conference, Columbia University, New York,New York.Hinrichs, Erhard.
1987.
"A CompositionalSemantics of Temporal Expressions in English.
"Proceedings of the ACL  Conference, Stanford Uni-versity, Stanford, California.Mathiessen, Christian.
1984.
"Choosing Tensein English."
ISI Research Report RR-84-143.
Ma-74
