A COMPUTATIONAL THEORY OF PERSPECTIVE AND REFERENCE IN NARRATIVEJanyce M. Wlebe and William J. RapaportDepartment of Computer ScienceState University of New York at BuffaloBuffalo, NY 14260wiebe~s.buffalo.edu, rapapurt~s.buffalo.eduABSTRACTNarrative passages told from a character's perspectiveconvey the character's thoughts and perceptions.
Wepresent a discourse process that recognizes characters'thoughts and perceptions in third-person arrative.
Aneffect of perspective on reference In narrative isaddressed: references in passages told from the perspec-tive of a character eflect the character's beliefs.
Analgorithm that uses the results of our discourse processto understand references with respect o an appropriateset of beliefs is presented.1.
INTRODUCTION.
A narrative is often told from theperspective of one or more of its characters; it cam also con-tain passages that are not told from the perspective of anycharacter.
We present a computational theory of howreaders recognize the current perspective in thixd-person n~-rative, end of the effects of perspective on the way readersunderstand references in third-person narrative.
We considerpublished novels and short stories, rather than m.ificiallyconstructed narratives.2.
BANFIELD'S THEORY.
Our notion of perspective innarrative is based on Ann Bardield's (1982) c~t_egorizationof the sentences of narration into subjective and objectivesentences.
Subjective sentences include those that portray acharacter's thoughts (represented thought) or present ascenea~ a character perceives it (represented perception).
Objec-tive sentences present he story directly, rather than throughthe thoughts or perceptions of a character.
The languageused to convey thoughts and perceptions is replete withlinguistic elements that make no sense unless they are inter-preted with respect o the thinking or perceiving character'sconsciousness.
Banfield calls them subjective elements; theyappear only in subjective sentences and cannot appear withinobjective sentences.
Banfield identifies perspective in narra-tive with subjectivity, which is expressible via subjectiveelements.
We call the thinking or perceiving character of asubjective sentence the subjective character.3.
A DISCOURSE-LEVEL APPROACH.
Our task ofrecognizing the currant perspective is, therefore, to recognizesubjective sentences and the subjective characters to whomthey are attributed.
However, we cannot take a umtence-by-sentence approach, deciding independently for each sen-tence whether it is objective or subjective, and, if subjective,who the subjective character is.
First, although thoughts andperceptions are often reported (as by sentences beginningwith "He thought that .
.
. "
or "She saw .
.
.
"), endthoughts are often accompsnied by narrative parerttheticaLs(such as "he thought" or "he realized"), many thoughtsand perceptions are not marked in these ways.
Second, sub-jective sentences do not always explicitly indicate who thesubjective character is.
For example:(1) 1"1He wanted to talk to Dennys.
1"2How were theygoing to be able to get home from this strange desertland into which they had been cast and which washcaven knew where in all the countless olar systemsin all the countless galaxies?
\[L'Engle, Many Waters,p.
91\](2) ~lBut what \[Muhammad\] had seen in those fewmoments m~e him catch his breath in amazement.z~On the floor of the cave, which curved back in analmal fault in the rock, there were several largecylindrical objects sumdin 8 in a row.
\[John Allegro,The Dead Sea Scrolls\]Sentence (1.2) is a represented thought, and (2.2) is arepresented perception, presenting what the character sees ashe sees it; yet neither is explicitly marked as such.
Also, nei-ther indicates who the subjective character is.
Finally,although a subjective lement marks a santence as subjective(cf.
Section 4.2), not all subjective sentences contain subjec-tive alements, and subjective lements do not in generalindicate who the subjective character is.However, subjective sentences that are not marked assuch, or that do not indicate who the subjective character is,usually appear in the midst of other subjective sentencesattributed to the same subjective character.
That is, once aclearly marked subjective sentence appears for which thesubjective character can be deternfined" unmarked subjectivesentences auributed to the same subjective character oftenfollow.
Thus, to recognize subjective smumces in generalwe need to consider subjectivity at the level of the discourse.For this reason, we extend the nodons of subjective andobjective sentences to the notions of subjective and objectivecontexts, which consist of one or more subjective sentencesattributed to the same subjective character, or one or moreobjective sentences, respectively.Our algorithm for recognizing the current perspectiveis a discourse process that looks for the boundaries of sub-jective contexts.
During narrative understending, it main-ta~ a stack, called the current perspecdve (CP).
At thebeginning of a narrative, the CP is initialized to be thereader.
When a new subjective context is recognized, its131subjective character is pushed onto the CP.
When the ead ofa subjective context is recognized, a character is poppedfrom the CP.
More precisely, since SNePS (Shapiro 1979),our knowledge representation system, is fully intmsional,only the reader's concepts of the characters are represented(Msida and Shapiro 1982, Shapiro and Rapaport 1987).
So,it is actually the re~_~__--'s concepts of the char~ters that ~epushed onto the CP.4.
RECOGNIZING SUBJECTIVE CONTEXTS.
Torecognize subjective contexts, our discourse process reliesexclusively on linguistic signals of subjective contexts.
Inthis, it is incomplete: If a subjective cmltext appears inwhich these linguistic signals are not present, then the sub-jective context is not recognized.4.1.
Psychological Verbs, Actions, Adjectives, and Per-ceptual Verbs.
Reports involving psychological vorbs (e.g~'think', 'wonder', 'realize', 'went', 'remember') or percep-tual verbs (e.g.. 'see', 'hear') signal that a subjective coatextwill follow.
So do predicate-adjective s ntences withpsychological djectives (e.g., 'delighted', 'happy', 'jealous','scared') (cf.
Banfield (1982).
Cohn (1978).
Dole~el (1973)).In addition, we have identified what we call psychologicalactions--e.g., "he smiled to himself", "she gasped", "shewinced"--which function in the same way as psychologicalverbs.A sentence of one of these types is a typical way ofestablishi~ a subjective context.
Exemples (1) and (2),above, and (3), below, exhibit his l~n ~*-n:O) 3"1She \[Hannah\] winced as she heard them crash tothe platform.
3"~he lovely little mirror that she hadbrought for Ellen, and the gifts for the baby\[ \[F~at~-chere, Hannah Herse~ p. 3\]In each example, the first smtence is a psycholosical or per-ceptual report, end the second is a represented thought orrepresented perception, respectively; the subjective characterof the second sentence is taken to be the subject of the firsLIn our discourse process, the subject of a porceptmd orpsychological report, or of a In~Aicete-adjective sentencowith a psychological adjective, is pushed onto the CP if acharacter isn't already on the top of it.
If a character isalready on the top of the CP, then no change is made, andthe sentence is understood to be part of the already esta-blished subjective ccnteXL4.2.
Subjective Elements.
Many subjective lements marka sentence in third-person arrative as subjective becausethey are expressive in nalme.
Some that Banfield identifiesare ectclanmt/ons, which express emotion; que~ons, whichexpress wonder;, ep/?hets, such as 'the bastard', whichexpress some qualification of the refeie~t; and certain k/n-ship terms, e.g., 'Daddy', 'Morn', and 'Aunt Margaret',which express a relationship to the referee.
She alsoidentifies evaluative adjec?/ves, which express an attitudetoward the referent, e.g., 'ghastly', 'surprising', poor', and'dasrmed', although some evaluative adjectives, such as'poor' and 'damned', have their evaluative meanings onlywhen they occ~ in certain parts of the sentence.
Intensifierssuch as 'too', 'quite', and 'so' are also evaluative (Banfield1982), as in:(4) He could tell they were tears because his eyes weretoo shiny.
Too round.
\[Bddgers, All Together Now,p.
92\]So are emphasizers, uch as 'really' and 'just'.
An exampleis 'really' in (5.3):O) XtJody managed a frail smile, s2she was a little bitashamed.
SzShe should really try to be more cheerfulfor Aunt Margaret's ake.
S~*After all, Atmt Margarethad Imubles of her own--she was the mother of thatghastly Dill.
\[Gage, Miss Osborne-the-Mop, p. 16-17\]Modal verbs of obligation, possibility, and necessity are alsoexpressive.
For example, 'should', in (5.3), is a modal verbof obligation.
So are many content (or atti:udinal) disjunct~which comment on the conumt of the utterance (Quirk et al1985).
For example, "l~ely', 'maybe', 'probably', and'perhaps' express ome degree of doubt:(6) Something jingled---cer keys probably.
\[Oneal, WarWork, p. 132\]Conjoncts, which comment on the connection between items(Quirk et el.
1985), can also be expressive.
For example,'anyhow', 'anyway', 'still', and 'after all' express conces-sion (Quirk et ai.
1985).
An example is 'After an' in (5.4).Other subjective elements am sentence fragments(Benfieki 1982), such as (7.2),(7) 7"1His brain worked slowly through what he knewabout this person.
~David's kid.
\[Bridgers, AllTogether Now, p. 91\]and the uses of 'this', 'that', 'these', and 'those' that RobinLakoff (1974) has identified as emotional dei.xb.
In conver-sation, they are "generally linked to the speaker's emotionalinvolvement in the subject-matter of his utterance" (Lakoff1974: 347); in thlrd-person arrative, they are linked to thesubjective character's emotional involvement in the subjectmatter of his thoughts or perceptions.
Examples are 'this' in(8.1) and 'That' in 0:2):(8) S'llbrahim could remember every time this godless pighad patronized lOzn , .
.
\[Clancy, Red Dawn Rbing,p.
13\]132O) 9aAs she watched, a wave of jealousy spread throughher.
9-2'rhat insufferable stranger who had passedthem on the road was receiving the welcome that shehad been dreaming of all the way from Connecticut.\[Franchere, Hannah Herself, p. 15\]In speech, the emotion, evaluation, etc, expressed bya subjective lement is always attributed to the speaker; inthird-persun narrative, it is auributed to a character, l Clearly,many types of language-understanding abilities are needed munderstand the range of subjective lements.
Our purposehere is to show how our discourse process uses them asmarkers of subjective contexts, and how it determin~ thesubjective character whose thoughts or perceptions theymark.
However, recognizing the subjective character isalways required before a subjective lement can be under-stood.When a subjective lement is m~.ountered in the nar-rative, our discourse process uIxiates the CP according to thefollowing algoriflun:(A1)If there is currently a character on the CP.Xthen do not change the CPelse if there is an actor focus at the start of the currentsentence who is a character in the scene2then push him or her c~to the CP3else create a new and indetennina~ concept and pushit onto the CP.4.2,1, Discussion of branch 1.
Branch I is taken when asubjective lement continues the current subjective context.For example, the exclamation i  O.2), which is a subjectiveelement, continues the subjective context esteblished by(3.1).
The subjective lements 'should' and *really' in (5.3)and 'After all', 'Aunt Margaret', 'that', and 'ghastly' in (5.4)continue the subjective context established in (5.1).4.2.2.
Discussion of branch 2.
The actor focus used inbranch 2 is one of the foci that need to be maintained for thecomprehension of definite snaphora (Sidner 1983).
It iswhoever is the agent of the current sente:r.e.
(Note thatquoted speech has its own foci.
which must be maintainedseparately.
In this sense, quoted speech constitutes aseparate discourse segment (cf.
Grosz and Sidne~ (1986).
)Consider the following example:(10) le~XIn the kitchen she \[Jody\] set the basket down onthe table, m'2She put the thermos and the cups in thesink and filled them with cool water to soak.
xo-"rhenIn stone third-pencn ovels, panicularly in the 19th century,an overt narrator (Chamum 1978) rues mbjective lemems.
We donot consider novels with overt narrators.she tiptoed upstairs to her room.
l?~Perhaps AuntMargaret was taking a nap.
m3It wouldn't do to dis-nu'b her.
\[Gage, Miss Osborne-the-Mop, .25\]Since Jody is the actor focus at the beginning of (10.4) (sheis the actor focus of (10.1)-(10.3)), and she is a character inthe scene, the mbjective lement 'Perhaps' is attributed mher when it is encountered, and she is pushed onto the CP.Sidner (1983) has shown that, in anaphoracomprehension, the current actor or discourse focus can herejected as the co-apedfier of an anaphor on the basis ofpragmatic factors.
Similarly.
the actor focus may be rejectedas the subjective character to whom the subjective lement ismributed, in favor of another character in the scene.
Thepragmatic factors involved appear to be which charactershave been subjective characters in the past and whosethoughts or perceptions the sentence containing the subjec-tive dement is likely to be reflecting.
Consider the follow-ing example, in which Adr~el, a seraph, has just appearedbefore Lemech and Sandy:(11) n'SLemech greeted him \[Adnarel\] respectfully.
"Adnarel, we thank you."
n:~rhen he said to Sandy,"The seraph will be able to help you.
Seraphimknow much about healing.
"n~So this was a seraph.
\[L'Engle" Many Wmers,p.
39\]Lmnach is the actor focus of (11.1) and (11.2).
However, itwould be clear to someone who had read the novel up to thispoint that (11.3) is Sandy's thought.
First, Sandy is a visitorto a slrange world, of which Lemech is an inhabitant; so it isSandy, not Lemech, who is likely not to have known what aseraph is.
Second, Irior to this passage, subjective contextshave been attributed to Sandy, but not to Lemech.
We areinvestigating the reasoning required by the re~d_~ in reject-ins the cm'rem actor in favor of another character.4.2.3.
Discussion of branch 3.
Branch 3 is taken when thereader cannot identify the subjective character and must readfurther in the text in order to do so.
In this case, an indemr-minate, inta~ional concept is pushed onto the CP.
Whenthe re~_d~ finally identifies the subjective character, theinformation that this character and the indeterminate one areco-extensional is built (that is, it is asserted that they areconcepts of the same individual; cf.
Malda and Shapiro(1982), Shapiro and Rapaport (1987)).
Naicong Li (1986)uses this approach in her pronoun resolution algorithm if theinfonna~n eeded to resolve a lmmoun is supplied after thepronoun is encountered.Often, the subjective charact~ is identified by a nar-rative parenthetical, sin the following example:(12) 12JWhat was holding Washington up?
the colonelasked himself.
Iz2Ail he needed was a simple yes orno.
\[clancy, Red Storm Rising, p. 170\]133Sentence (12.1) begins with a question, which is a subjectiveelement.
It occurs just after a shift in scene, so it does notcontinue a current subjective context, and there is no actorfocus.
When 'What' is encountered in (12.1), branch 3pushes a new concept onto the CP: At this point, the readerhas recognized someone's thought' but does not yet knowwhose.
When the reader encounters the parenthetical, sheidentifies the subjective character as the colonel, and buildsa proposition that the colonel and the new concept are co-extemsional (that is, she comes to believe that the questionwas the colonel's thought).4.2.4.
Comparison of evaluative and psychologicaladjectives.
Before leaving oor discussion of subjective le-ments, it will be useful to concast he ways that predicate-adjective sentences with psychological and with evaluativeadjectives are treated by our discotwse process.
Comparethe following sentences:(A) Jody was delighted.
(B) Jody was ghastly.Sentence (A) contains the psychological adjective'delighted', and (B) contains the evaluative adjective'ghastly'.
In (A) (assuming no previous ubjective context),Jody is pushed onto the CP, and (A) establishes a subjectivecontext atlributed to Jody.
In (B)' algorithm (A1) determineswhose atti_-_~a_e toward Jody is being expressed, and it doesnot choose the subject of the sentence.
Thus, psycbologicaladjectives can establish the perspective of the subject,whereas evaluative adjectives express an altitude toward thesubject.$.
RECOGNIZING ENDING BOUNDARIES OF SUB-JECTIVE CONTEXTS.
Recognizing the ending boun-d&ies of subjective contexts is a more difficult problem thanrecognizing the beginning boundaries.
While not all subjec-tive contexts are signaled in the ways discussed in Section 4,it is very common that they are.
However, we have notfound equally reliable or common signals for the endingboundaries.
It appears that the reader often has to reasonabout he content of the current sentence and confirm that itcan continue the subjective context; if it cannot, then theending boundary has been found.Nevertheless, we have identified two reliable ways ofrecognizing the ending boundaries of subjective contexts.One way subjective contexts are ended is by a shift in scene,as in the following example:(13) He \[Sandy\] wanted to talk to Dennys.
How werethey going to be able m get home from this storagedesert land into which they had been cast and whichwas heaven knew where in all the countless solar sys-tears in aLl the countless galaxies?<Chapter Break>Dennys was sleeping fitfully when he heard the tentflap move.
\[L'Engle, Many Waters, pp.
91-92\]Dannys and Sandy are not at the same place.
The shift inscene at the chapter break ends the subjective context attri-buted to Sandy.A second way is by a negated perceptual reportwhose subject is the subjective character and whose object issomething in the scene.
For example,(14) x4"xSbe \[Yalith\] was not sure why she was hesitant.x4~'he breathed in the strange odor of his wings,smelling of stone, of the cold, dark winds which cameduring the few brief weeks of winter.X~Envelopod in Eblis's wings, she did not hear therhydmtic thud as a great lion galloped toward themacross the desert, roaring as it neared them.
14~rhanboth Yalith and Eblis turned and saw the lion risingto its hind legs .
.
.
\[L'Engle, Many Wooers, p. 47\]The subjective context in the first paragraph is ended by thenegated perceptual verb in (14.3).
Sentence (14.4) thenestablishes a new subjective context attributed to Yalith andEblis.
In a similar way, subjective contexts can be ended bynegated factive verbs, as in "He did not realize that .
.
.
".6.
BELIlC~F AND SUBJECTIVE CONTEXTS.
Sincesubjective contexts portray thoughts and perceptions, thereader understands that the information they convey reflectsthe subjective character's beliefs (cf.
Fillmore (1974)'Banfield (1982), Usponsky (1973)).
Whatever else thereader may infer that the characters believe, she has to attri-bute the informafi.__on i subjective contexts to the subjectivech&acter.
Brian Reiser (1981) showed that one of theeffects of perspective on a read_~'s understanding is that itfocuses inec.essing.
In particular, he showed that the read&primarily infers the goals and plans of the ch&acter whoseperspective the narrative is taking.
In a similar way, per-spective focuses the reader's atm'bution of beliefs to thecharacters.References in subjective contexts reflect just what thesubjective character believes.
(CL Clark and Marshall(1981), Cohen, Perranlt, and Allen (1982), and Wilks andBien (1983) for discussions of belief and reference inconversation.)
The subjective charecter might be mistaken,o~ know less about the referent han the reader or the othercharacters know, or know more than the other characters.The remainder of this paper addresses the auribution ofbeliefs to ch&acte~s in order to understand references in sub-jective contexts.6.1.
An Algorithm for Understandin 8 References Usingthe CP.
Ore- belief representation, described in Rapalx~and Shapiro (1984), Rapaport (1986)' and Wiebe and Rapa-port (1986)' is based on the notion of belief spaces.
A be//efspace is accessed by a stack of individuals, and consists ofwhat the bottom member of the stack believes that .
.
,  thetop member believes.
The re~__aer_ is always the bottommember of the stack, and the belief space corresponding to astack consisting only of the re~_d~ contains the set of134propositions that the reader believes are true.
All proposi-tions in the knowledge base appear in at least one beliefspace, and a single proposition can appear in more than onebelief space.
This occurs, for example, if the reader believesa proposition and believes that a character believes it, too.The CP determines the current belief space withrespect to which references are understood.
So far, ouranalysis extends only to non-anaphoric, specific ref~er~ces.The following is our algorithm for understanding a non-anaphoric, specific reference 'X'  in third-person mmmive(there may actually be more then one proposition found orbuilt in order to understand 'X',  for example, if 'X'  is pluralor a possessive):(A2)If 'X'  is art indefinite noun phrase of the form 'a Y',tthen create a new concept, N; build in the CP'sbelief space the proposition that N is a Y;return Nelse if 'X'  is a definite noun phrase or proper name,then if a proposition that N is X can be found inthe CP's belief space,2then return Nelse if a proposition that N is X can be found in abelief space other than the CP's,3then add the found proposition to the CP'sbelief space; remm N4else create a new concept, N; build in the CP'sbelief space the proposition that N is X;retm'n N.6.1.1.
Discussion of branch 1.
Indefinite references intro-duce new individuals into the CP's belief space.
We discussthis in Section 6.3, below.6.1.2.
Discussion of branches 2 and 3.
The search for thereferent of a non-enaphoric definite noun phrase or propername starts in the CP's belief space.
Branch 2 is taken ifthe referent can be found there.If the test in branch 2 falls, then the rest of theknowledge base must be searched.
To see why this is so,suppose that the reference is 'Ellen' and that it occurs in asubjective context.
It is possible that Ellen has been referredto previously in the narrative but not under any cir-cumstences that would have required the reader to explicitlyamibute the belief that she is named 'Ellen' to the subjectivecharacter.
Perhaps he has only been referred to in objectivecontexts, for example.
So, to find the referent, other beliefspaces than the CP's must be searched.Branch 3 is taken if the search is successful, and,before the referent is returned, the proposition that thereferent is X is A_dded to the CP's belief space.
In the casejust discussed, the fact that the reference occurs in a subjec-tive context indicates that the belief that the referent isnamed 'Ellen' should now be attributed to the subjectivecharacter.6.1.3.
Discussion of branch 4.
Branch 4 is taken in orderto understand efinite noun phrases and proper names thatrefer to individuals who have not been previously introducedinto the narrative.
Fur example, in (3.2), above, neither themirror, the gifts, the baby, nor Ellen have been mentionedbefore in the novel.
A new referent for each is introducedinto the CP's belief space; that is, by virtue of understandingthe references in (3.2), the reader comes to believe that Han-nah.
the subjective character, believes that there is a mirror,some gifts, a baby, and a person named 'Ellen'.6.1A.
An example.
We now illustrate our algorithms on apassage that reflects a character's mistaken belief.
The pas-sage is f~om a novel in which a character, Dwayne, mistak-enly believes that another character, Casey.
is a boy:05) L~'IHis \[Dwayne's\] brain worked slowly through whathe knew about this person \[Casey\].
tS'2David's kid.~The  name stumbled into place.
Is~nis wasDavid's boy.
~S-SDavid was in the war, and here washis kid in the arc~_de scared of something.
\[Bridgers,All Together Now, p. 91\]Note that (15.1) end (15.3) are psychological reports thatemploy metaphor, ather than psychological verbs, to reportthe character's psychological experience ((9.1), above,employs metaphor in a similar way).
Memphur is beyondthe scope of this work.
so, before applying our algorithm tothis passage, we paraphrase it as follows:(15a) L~He \[Dwayne\] thought of what he knew about thisperson \[Casey\].
tX2David's kid.
XS~He rememberedthe name.
ls~*\]'his was David's boy.
lkSDavid wasin the war, and here was his kid in the arcade scaredof something.Fn'st, consider the operation of our discourse process.Sentence (15a.1) is a psychological report, and so Dwayne,its subject, is pushed onto the CP; this establishes a subjec-five context, auributad to Dwayne, which is continuedthroughout the passage.
Note that when the sentence frag-ment (which is a subjective lement) is encotmtered, nochange is made to the CP because there is already a charac-ter on the top of it.
Similarly, no change is made to the CPwhen (15a.3), a psychological report, and the second con-jun~ of (15a.5), a predicate-adjective umtew.e with apsychological adjective, are encountered, since there isalready a character on the top of the CP.Now, consider the refe~e4-c.e to David in (15a.2).
Thereader knows that David is Casey's father.
If, before read-ing (15L2), the reader didn't explicitly believe that Dwayneknew about David too, then branch 3 of algorithm (A2)would be taken to understand this reference; the result is thatthe reader now explicitly believes that Dwayne knows aboutDavid.135'David's boy' in (15a.4) reflects Dwayne's mistakenbelief about Casey, and branch 2 of algorithm (A2) is takenin order to understand it.
To illustrate that information insubjective contexts is atu'ibuted to the subjective character,suppose that (15a.4) were "This was David's girl"; in thatcase.
the reader would have to infer that Dwayne hadsomehow found out that Casey is a girl.6.1.5.
Further discussion of algorithm (A2)..Note that ifa reference is a subjective lemertt, such as 'the bastard', itmay be a non-classifw.atory noun (Banfield 1982); that is, itcarmot be understood entirely propositionally, since itexpresses subjectivity.
How it should be undemtooddepends on the particular subjective lmnmt.
Thus, specificalgorithms for nouns that are subjective elemants mustsupersede algorithm (A2).As mentioned above, algorithm (A2) is enable tounderstand anaphoric references.
However, mmphorcomprehension can he affected by perspective.
Consider thefollowing passage:(16) mtThe man had mined, xt'~He started to walk awayquickly in the direction of the public library.le?
"O.K.," said Joe, "get Rosie.
"x6~Zoe crept back to the blinker, xt~She felt hollowin her smmuch.
1~She'd never eally expected to seethe Enemy again.
\[Ones\], War Work, p. 64\]In (16.6), 'the Enemy' is m ana~oric reference that occursin a subjective context (established by (16.5), which is apsychological report); it co-specifies 'the man' in (16.1) and'He' in (16.2).
It reflects Zoe's belief that the raan is anenemy spy, although it is not at all clear to the reader, atpoint' that he is.Personal pronouns can also reflect the beliefs of acharacter.
The following passage is a continuation of pas-sage (15) (italics ours):(17) He \[Dwayne\] wasn't sure of what.
What in thearcade could scare a boy like that?
He rubbed hishead under his baseball cap.
He could see tears inCasey's eyes.
He could tell they were tearsh/s eyes were too shiny.
Too round.
WelL it was allright to cry.
He'd cried when they took him to thatplace a few years back.
Now Casey was in a newplace, too, feeling maybe the same as him.
If he justknew what to do about it."
le t ' s  don't play that game anymore," he said. "
Idon't like that one.
"Casey wiped her face on her s leeve .
.
.
\[Bridgers,All Together Now, p. 92\]Both italicized pronouns refer m Cesey; the first occurs in asubjective context attributed to Dwayne, and the secondoccurs after the subjective context has ended (in this pas-sage, the subjective context is ended by direct speech).6.2, Assertive Indefinite Pronouns.
Assertive indefinitepronouns--e.g., 'someone', 'something', 'somebody'----arespecific, though unspecified (Quirk et al 1985); that is, theygenerally refer to particular people, things, etc., withoutidentifying them.
When referring to a particular eferent, aspeaker typically uses an assertive indefinite pronoun if (1)she doesn't know the identity of the referent, (2) she doesn'twant the addressee to know the identity of the reread-a, or(3) she doesn't believe that the identity of the referent isrelevant o the conversation.
A cheract~'s thoughts endperceptions are not directed toward an addressee, and so thefirst of these uses is the predominant one in subjective con-texts.
Used in this way, they express a lack of knowledge,and so are subjective lements.
When one of them appearsin a subjective context, the r~d~ onderstands that the sub-jective character does not know who or what the refermt is.Often.
the pronoun is the only source of this information.Consider the following example:(18) maSuddenly she \[Zoe\] gasped, n~She had touchedsomebody!
\[Oneal, War Work., p. 129\]The~ is no explicit statement in the novel that Zoe does notknow whom she touched; this has to be inferred from theuse of 'somebody'.
Sentences (6) and (15.5) provide fm'therexamples.6.3.
Indefinite Refereneas.
In conversation, definite refer-ances are used only if the speaker believes that the addresseehas enough inform~on to intexpret hem.
As mentionedabove, thoughts and perceptions are not directed toward maddressee, and so the use of definite references in subjectivecontexts is not subject to this conslraint; as illustrated by(3.2), they me used to refer to referents familiar to the sub-jective character, whether or not the r-,~ler has been toldabout them before.
So, when a specific indefinite referenceappears in a subjective context, the reader understands thatthe referont is unfamiliar to the subjective character;, other-wise, a defmlte reference would have appeared (Fdlmore1974).However, the referent may not be unknown to thereader or to the other characters.
For example,(19) There they \[the King and his men\] saw close besidethem a great rubbleheap; and suddenly they wereaware of two small figures lying on it at their ease,grey-cled, hardly to be seen among the stones.
\[Tol-kien, The Two Towers, p. 206\]The reader knows that the King and his men have comeupon two hobbits, Menv end Pippin.
The King and his mendo not know the hobbits, but other characters also present inthe scene do know them.
When the King and his man areon the top of the CP (after 'saw' and continued by 'wereaware of'), the hobbits are not referred to by name, but as'two small figures'.
Branch 1 of algorirlun (A2) c rea~ newreferents and, in the belief space of the King and his men,136builds propositions that they are small figures.
The newreferants can be asserted to be co-exteusional with the con-cepts who the reader and other characters believe are named'Merry' and 'Pippin'.Indefinite references can sometimes indicate that thesubjective character doesn't evan know what the refermt is.This occurs when the head noun is a SUlZ~ordinate, ratherthan a basic-level, term (Rosch and Lloyd 1978).
The basiclevel is the preferred level at which people identify things.If a superordinate, rather than a basic-level, term appears inan indefinite refarance in a subjective context, the readerunderstands that the subjective character can't even idantifythe referant at the basic level.
In example (19), the hobbitsare referred to as 'two small figures', because the King andhis man have never seen hobbits before.
Here is an examplethat is not from a fantasy novel:(20) Slowly Hannah raised her head and blinked her eyes.Small dots of purple coveted the ground around h~and she reached out to explore.
Violets l \[Fx~.-~che~,Hannah Herse~, p. 25\]Whan she first sees the violets, Hannah can only identifythem as 'small dots of purple'.
Another occurs in (2.2):The fact that the reference 'several large cylindrical objects'includes the ~d inate  term 'objects' indicates thatMuhammad oesn't know what the referents are.
Anotherexample is (21):(21) He felt firm reslralnts of some sort holding him inplace.
\[Wu, Cyborg, p. 141\]Peters and Shapiro (1987ab) describe a SNePSrepresantation fornatural category systems in which superor-dinate categories can be distinguished from basic-level andsubordinate categories.
After an indefinite reference with asuperordinate rm in a subjective context has been parsed,the fact that the subjective character was able to identify thereferent only at a supemrdinate level is represented in theknowledge base by using their represcntatio~7.
CONCLUSIONS AND FUTURE RESEARCH.
Manyproblems remain to be solved.
Our discourse process cannotrecognize subjective contexts that are not established by thelinguistic signals it relies on, and general principles areneeded to explain how readers recognize the ending boun-daries of subjective contexts.
We are investigating howtense, deictic terms (cf.
Bruder et aL (1986), Bantield(1982)), the characters' goals (cf.
Wilansky (1983)), and theargumant structure (of.
Cohen (1987)) often exhibited bythoughts might be used to recognize the boundaries of sub-jectlve contexts.
Branches 2 and 3 of algorithm (A1) need tobe expanded to determine who the subjective character is ifthe actor focus isn't a reasonable candidate and noparanthetical ppea~.
We are investigating how focus ofattention (cf.
Grosz (1981), Sidner (1983)) can be incor-porated into algorithm (A2) in such a way that anaphoricreferences reflecting the beliefs of a character can be under-stood.
Finally, there is the general problem of revision.
Ouralgorithms assume that signals occur at the beginning ofsubjective contexts.
However, there are cases when a sub-jective context cannot be recognized until some of it hasalready been parsed.
A difficult case is inustrated by the fol-lowing: "CaJody was rich and famous, c2why wasn't shehappy?
Bin wondered."
Only after reading (C2) can thereader ecognize that (C1) is a represented thought.We have erguad that a discourse-level approach mustbe taken to the problem of recognizing character's thoughtsand perceptions in third-person arrative.
Our discourseprocess, which is implemented in an ATN grammar inter-faced to SNePS, recognizes ubjective contexts that arelinguistically signaled in ways frequantly employed innaturally-occurring arratives.
By using the results of thediscourse process to determine the belief context needed monderstand refermces, our reference algorithm demonstrateshow perspective affects referance in third-person narrative.8, ACKNOWLEDGMENTS.
We are indebted to MaryGalbraith, David Zubin, Sandra Peters, Stuart Shapiro, andthe other members of the SUNY Buffalo Graduate Group inCognitive Science and the SNePS Research Group for manydiscussions end ideas.
This research was supported in partby NSF grauts IST-8504713, IRI-8610517.REFERENCESBanfield, Arm (1982), Unspeakable Sentences: Narratwnand Representation in the Language of Fiction (Boston:Roufledge & Kegan Paul).Bruder, Gail A.; Duchan, Judy F.; R~papmt, W'dliam J.;Sagal, Erwin M.; Shapiro, Smart C.; and Zubin, David A.
(1986), "Deictic Canters in Narrative: An InterdisciplinaryCognitive-Sciance Project," Technical Report 86.20(Buffalo: SUNY Buffalo Dept.
of Computer Science).Chamm~ Seymour (1978), Story and Discourse: NarrativeStructure in Fiction and Film (Ithaca, NY: Comell Univer-sity Press).Clark, Herbert H. end Marshall, Catharine R. (1981),"Definite Ref~,w,ce and Mutual Knowledge," in A. Joshi,B.
Webber, and L Sag (eds.
), Elements of Discourse Under-~and/ng (Cambridge: Cambridge University Press): 10-63.Cohen, Philip R.; Perrault, C. Raymond; and Allen, James F.(1982), "Beyond Question Answering," in W. Lchnert andM.
Ringle (eds.
), Strategies for Natural Language Process-/ng (Hillsdale, NJ: Lawrence Erlbamn): 245-274.Cohen, Robin (1987), "Analyzing the Structure ofArgumentative Discourse," Computational Linguistics 13:11-24.Cohn, Dorrit (1978), Transparent Minds: Narrative Modesfor Representing Consciousness in Fiction (Princeton:Princeton University Press).137Dole~el, Lubomir (1973)' Narrative Modes in Czech l..itera.tare (Toronto: University of Toronto Press).Fillmore, Charles (1974)' "pragmatics and the Descriptionof Discourse," in C. Fillmore, G. Lakoff, and R.
Lakoff(eds.
), Berkeley Studiea in Syntax and Semantics I (Berkeley:University of California Dept.
of Linguistics and Institute ofHuman I.e.aming): VI-V21.Grosz, Barbara J.
(1981)' "Focusing and Description inNatural Language Dialogues," in A. Joshi, B. Webber, andL Sag (eds.
), Elements of Discourse Understanding (Cam-bridge: Cambridge University Press): 84-105.Grosz, Barbara J. and Sidner, Candace L. (1986), "Amm-tion.
Intantions, and the Slructure of Disoom'se," Computa-tional Linguistics, 12: 175-204.Lakoff, Robin (1974)' "Remarks on 'this' and 'that',"Papers from the Tenth Regional Meeting of the ChicagoLinguistic Society (Chicago: Chicago Linguistic Society):345-356.Li, Nalcong (1986).
"Pronoun Resolution in SNePS.
"SNe.RG Technical Note 18 (Buffalo: SUNY Buffalo Dept.
ofComputer Science).Maida, Anthony S. and Shapiro, Smart C. (1982)' "Inten-sional Concepts in Propositional Semantic Networks," Cog-hi:ire Science 6: 291-330.Quirk.
Randolph; Greenbaum.
Sidney;, Le_ec.h, Geoffxe~ endSvartvik.
Jan (1985)' A Comprehensive Grammar of theEnglish Language (New York: Longuum).Peters, S~adra L. and Shapiro, Stuart C. (1987a), "ARelxesentation for Natural Category Systems," Proceedingsof the 9th Annual Conferotce of the Cognitive ScienceSociety (Seattle) (Hillsdale, NJ: Lawrence Erlhaum): 379-390.Peters, Sandra L. and Shapiro, Smart C. (19871)), "ARepresentation for Natural Category Systems," Proc~d'mgsof the lOth International Joint Conference on Artificial Intel.ligence (1JCAI-87; Milan) (Los Altos, CA: Morgan Kanf-mann): 140-146.Rapaport, William J. end Shapiro, Stuart C. (1984)'"Quasi-Indexical Reference in Propositional Semantic Net-works," Proceedings of the lOth International Conferenceon Computational Linguistics (COLING-84 ; Stanford Univ.
)(Monistown, NJ: Assoc.
for Computational L,ingulstics):65-70.Rapaport, William L (1986)' "Logical Foundations forBelief Representation,'" Cognitiv eScience 10: 371-422.Reise~, Brian J.
(1981), "Character Tracking and the Under-standing of Narrative," Proceedings of the 7th InternationalJoint Conference on Artificial Intelligence (IJCAI-81; Van.couver) (Los Altos, CA: Morgan Kanfmarm): 209-211.Rosch, Eleanor and Lloyd, B3.
(1978)' Cognition andCategorization (Hillsdale, NJ: Lawrence Erlbaum Associ-ates).Shapiro, Smart C. (1979)' "The SNePS Semantic NetworkProcessing System," in N.V. Findler (ed.
), Associative Net.worka (New York: Acedomic): 179-203.Shapiro, Smart C. and Rapapo~ William J.
(1987), "SNePSComidered as a Fully Intensional Propositional SemanticNetwork," in N. Cerc~m and G. McCalla (eds.)'
TheKnowledge Frontier (New York: Springer-Verlag): 262-315.Sidner, Cmdaze L. (1983)' "Focusing in the Comprehensionof Definite Anaphora," in M. Brliy md R. Berwick (eds.
),Computational Models of Discourse (Cambridge, MA: TheMrr Press): 267-330.Uspemky.
Boris (1973), A Poetics of Composition (Berke-le~ University of California Press).Wiebe, Janyce M. and Rapalx~ W'dliam J, (1986).
"Representing De Re and De Dicto Belief Reports inDiscourse and Nan'afive'" Proc.
IEEE 74: 1405-1413.Wilemky, Robert (1983)' Planning and Understanding(Reading, MA: Addison-Wesley).Willm, Yorick and Bien, Janusz (1983), "Befiefs, Points ofView, and Multiple Environments," Cognitive Science 7:95-119.CITED TEXTSAllegro, John (1977), The Dead Sea Scrolls (Harmon&-worth, Eng.
: Panguin).Bridgers, Sue Ellen (1979)'.AII Together Now (New York:Knopf).Clarity, Tom (1986), Red Storm Rising (New York: G.P.Pumam's Sons).Franchere" Ruth (1964)' Hannah Herself (New York: Tho-rues Y. Crowell).Gage, Wilson (1963)' Miss Osborne-the-Mop (Cleveland:World Publishing).L'Engle.
Madeleine (1986)' Many Waters (New York, DellPubUsh~).Oneal.
Zibby (1971)' War Work (New York.
Viking Press).Tolkian.
LR.R.
(1965)' The Two Towers (New York: Bal-lantine Books).Wu, William (1987), Cyborg (New York: Ace Books).138
