Cues and control in Expert-Client DialoguesSteve Whittaker & Phil StentonHewlett-Packard LaboratoriesFilton Road, Bristol BS I2  6QZ,  UK .email: sjw~hplb.csnetApril 18, 1988Abst rac tWe conducted an empirical analysis into therelation between control and discourse struc-ture.
We applied control criteria to four di-alognes and identified 3 levels of discoursestructure.
We investigated the mechanism forchanging control between these structures andfound that utterance type and not cue wordspredicted shifts of control.
Participants usedcertain types of signals when discourse goalswere proceeding successfully but resorted tointerruptions when they were not.1 In t roduct ionA number of researchers have shown that thereis organisation i  discourse above the level ofthe individual utterance (5, 8, 9, 10), The cur-rent exploratory study uses control as a pa-rameter for identifying these higher level struc-tures.
We then go on to address how conversa-tional participants co-ordinate moves betweenthese higher level units, in particular lookingat the ways they use to signal the beginningand end of such high level units.Previous research as identified three meansby which speakers ignal information aboutdiscourse structure to listeners: Cue wordsand phrases (5, 10); Intonation (7); Pronomi-nalisation (6, 2).
In the cue words approach,Reichman'(10) has claimed that phrases like"because", "so", and "but" offer explicit in-formation to listeners about how the speaker'scurrent contribution to the discourse relatesto what has gone previously.
For example aspeaker might use the expression "so" to signalthat s/he is about to conclude what s/he hasjust said.
Grosz and Sidner (5) relate the useof such phrases to changes in attentional state.An example would be that "and" or "but" sig-nal to the listener that a new topic and setof referents i being introduced whereas "any-way" and "in any case" indicate a return to aprevious topic and referent set.
A second in-direct way of signalling discourse structure isintonation.
Hirschberg and Pierrehumbert (7)showed that intonational contour is closely re-lated to discourse segmentation with new top-ics being signalled by changes in intonationalcontour.
A final more indirect cue to discoursestructure isthe speaker's choice of referring ex-pressions and grammatical structure.
A num-ber of researchers (4, 2, 6, 10) have given ac-counts of how these relate to the continuing,retaining or shifting of focus.The above approaches have concentrated onparticular surface linguistic phenomena andthen investigated what a putative cue serves tosignal in a number of dialogues.
The problem123with this approach is that the cue may only bean infrequent indicator of a particular type ofshift.
If we want to construct a general theoryof discourse than we want to know about thewhole range of cues serving this function.
Thisstudy therefore takes a different approach.
Webegin by identifying all shifts of control in thedialogue and then look at how each shift wassignalled by the speakers.
A second problemwith previous research is that the criteria foridentifying discourse structure are not alwaysmade explicit.
In this study explicit criteriaare given: we then go on to analyse the rela-tion between cues and this structure.2 The  dataThe data were recordings of telephone conver-sations between clients and an expert concern-ing problems with software.
The tape record-ings from four dialogues were then transcribedand the analysis conducted on the typewrit-ten transcripts rather than the raw recordings.There was a total of 450 turns in the dialogues.2.1 Cr i ter ia  for classifying u t terancetypes.
Each utterance in the dialogue wasclassified into one of four categories: (a) As-sert ions - declarative utterances which wereused to state facts.
Yes or no answers to ques-tions were also classified as assertions on thegrounds that they were supplying the listenerwith factual information; (b) Commands  -utterances which were intended to instigateaction in their audience.
These included vari-ous utterances which did not have imperativeform, (e.g.
"What I would do if I were youis to relink X ' )  but were intended to inducesome action; (c) Quest ions - utterances whichwere intended to elicit information from theaudience.
These included utterances whichdid not have interrogative form.
e.g.
"Somy question is...." They also included para-phrases, in which the speaker eformulated orrepeated part or all of what had just been said.Paraphrases were classified as questions on thegrounds that the effect was to induce the lis-tener to confirm or deny what had just beenstated; (d) P rompts  - These were utteranceswhich did not express propositional content.Examples of prompts were things like "Yes"and ~Uhu ~.2.2 A l locat ion of  contro l  in the dia-logues.
We devised several rules to determinethe location of control in the dialogues.
Eachof these rules related control to utterance type:(a) For questions, the speaker was defined asbeing in control unless the question directlyfollowed a question or command by the otherconversant.
The reason for this is that ~ ques-tions uttered following questions or commandsare normally attempts to clarify the precedingutterance and as such are elicited by the previ-ous speaker's utterance rather than directingthe conversation i  their own right.
(b) Forassertions, the speaker was defined as being incontrol unless the assertion was made in re-sponse to a question, for the same reasons asthose given for questions; an assertion whichis a response to a question could not be saidto be controlling the discourse; (c) For com-mands, the speaker was defined as controllingthe conversation.
Indirect commands (i.e.
ut-terances which did not have imperative formbut served to elicit some actions) were alsoclassified in this way; (d) For prompts, thelistener was defined as controlling the conver-sation, as the speaker was clearly abdicatinghis/her turn.
In cases where a turn consistedof several utterances, the control rules wereonly applied to the final utterance.We applied the control rules and foundthat control did not alternate from speaker tospeaker on a turn by turn basis, but that therewere long sequences of turns in which con-trol remained with one speaker.
This seemedto suggest hat the dialogues were organisedabove the level of individual turns into phases124where control was located with one speaker.The mean number of turns in each phase was6.63.3 Mechanisms for switch-ing controlWe then went on to analyse how control wasexchanged between participants at the bound-aries of these phases.
We first examined thelast utterance of each phase on the groundsthat one mechanism for indicating the end ofa phase would be for the speaker controllingthe phase to give some cue that he (both par-ticipants in the dialogues were always male) nolonger wished to control the discourse.
Therewas a total of 56 shiRs of control over the 4dialogues and we identified 3 main classes ofcues used to signal control shifts These wereprompts, repetitions and summaries.
We alsolooked at when no signal was given (interrup-tions).3.1 P rompts .
On 21 of the 56 shifts (38%),the utterance immediately prior to the con-trol shift was a prompt.
We might thereforeexplain these shifts as resulting from the per-son in control explicitly indicating that he hadnothing more to say.
(In the following examples a line indicates acontrol shift)Example 1 - Prompt Dialogue C -1.
E: "And they are, in your genyou'll find that they've relocated intothe labelled common area" (E con-trol)2.
C: "That's right."
(E control)3.
E: "Yeah" (E abdicates controlwith prompt)4.
C: "I've got two in there.
Thereare two of them."
(C control)5.
E: "Right" (C control)6.
C: "And there's another one whichis % RESA" (C control)7.
E: "OK urn" (C control)8.
C: "VS" (C control)9.
E: "Right" (C control)10.
C: "Mm" (C abdicates controlwith prompt)11.
E: "Right and you haven't got- I assume you haven't got local la-belled common with those labels" (Econtrol)3.2 Repet i t ions  and  summar ies  On afurther 15 occasions (27%), we found that theperson in control of the dialogue signalled thatthey had no new information to offer.
Theydid this either by repeating what had just beensaid (6 occasions), or by giving a summary ofwhat they had said in the preceding utterancesof the phase (9 occasions).
We defined a rep-etition as an assertion which expresses part orall of the propositional content of a previousassertion but which contains no new informa-tion.
A summary consisted of concise referenceto the entire set of information given about theclient's problem or the solution plan.Example 2 - Repetition.
Dialogue C -I.
Client: "These routines are filedas DS" (C control)1252.
Expert: "That's right, yes" (Ccontrol)3.
C: "DS" (C abdicates control withrepetition)4.
E: "And they are, in your genyou'll find they've relocatedinto your local common area."
(Econtrol)Half the repetitious were accompanied bycue words.
These were "and", "well" and "so",which prefixed the assertion.Example 3 - Summary Dialogue B -1.
E. "OK. Initialise the disc retain-ing spares" (E control)2.
C: "Right" (E control)3.
E: "Uh and then TF  it back" (Econtrol)4.
C: "Right" (E control)5.
E: "Did you do the TF with ver-ify.
~ (E control)6.
C: "Er yes I did" (E control)7.
E: "OK. That would be my recom-mendation and that will ensure thatyou get er a logically integral set offiles" (E abdicates control with sum-mary)8.
C: "Right.
You think that initial-ising it using this um EXER facility.
"(C control)What are the linguistic characteristics ofsummaries?
Reichman (10) suggests that "so"might be a summary cue on the part of thespeaker but we found only one example of this,although there were 3 instances of "and", one"now" one "but" and one "so".
In our di-alogues the summaries eemed to be charac-terised by the concise reference to objects orentities which had earlier been described in de-tail, e.g.
(a) "Now, I'm wondering how the twoare related" in which "the two" refers to thetwo error messages which it had taken severalutterances to describe previously.
The othercharacteristic of summaries is that they con-trast strongly with the extremely concrete de-scriptions elsewhere in the dialogues, e.g.
"errthe system program standard call file doesn'tcomplete this means that the file does not havea tail record" followed by "And I've no clue atall how to get out of the situation".
Exam-ple 3 also illustrates this change from specific(1, 3, 5) to general (7).
How then do rep-etitious and summaries operate as cues?
Insummarising, the speaker is indicating a nat-ural breakpoint in the dialogue and they alsoindicate that they have nothing more to addat that stage.
Repetitions eem to work in asimilar way: the fact that a speaker eiteratesindicates that he has nothing more to say ona topic.3.3 Interrupt ions .
In the previous cases,the person controlling the dialogue gave a sig-nal that control might be exchanged.
Therewere 20 further occasions (36% of shifts) onwhich no such indication is given.
We there-fore went on to analyse the conditions in whichsuch interruptions occurred.
These seem tofall into 3 categories: (a) vital facts; (b) re-spouses to vital facts; (c) clarifications.3.3.1 Vital  facts.
On a total of 6 occasions(11% of shifts) the client interrupted to con-tradict the speaker or to supply what seemedto be relevant information that he believed theexpert did not know.126Example 4 Dialogue C -1.
E: ".... and it generates this warn-ing, which is now at 4.0 to warn youabout the situation" (E control)2.
C: "It is something new thoughurn" (C assumes control by interrup-tion)3.
E: "Well" (C control)4.
C: "The programs that I've runbefore obviously LINK A's got somenew features in it which er..." (C con-trol)5.
E: "That's right, it's a new warn-ing at 4.0" (E assumes control by in-terruption)Two of these 6 interjections were to supply ex-tra information and one was marked with thecue "as well".
The other four were to con-tradict what had just been said and two hadexplicit markers "though" and "well actually":the remaining two being direct denials.3.3.2 Revers ions of  contro l  fol lowingvi ta l  facts.
The next class of interruptionsoccur after the client has made some interjec-tion to supply a missing fact or when the clienthas blocked a plan or rejected an explanationthat the expert has produced.
There were 8such occasions (14% of shifts).The interruption in the previous example il-lustrates the reversion of control to the expertafter the client has suIiplied information whichhe (the client) believes to be highly relevantto the expert.
In the following example, theclient is already in control.Example 5 Dialogue B -1.
"I'11 take a backup first as you say"(C control)2.
E: "OK" (C control)3.
C: "The trouble is that it takes along time doing all this" (C control)4.
E: "Yeah, yeah but er this kindof thing there's no point taking anyshort cuts or you could end up withno system at all."
(E assumes controlby interruption)On five occasions the expert explic-itly signified his acceptance or re-jection of what the client had said,e.g.
"Ah","Right", "indeed" , "that'sr ight' ,"No',"Yeah but".
On threeoccasions there were no markers.3.3.3 Clar i f icat ions.
Participants can alsointerrupt to clarify what has just been said.This happened on 6 occasions (11%) of shifts.Example 6 Dialogue C -1.
C: "If  I put an SE in and then doan EN it comes up" (C control)2.
E: "So if you put in a ...?"
( Econtrol)3.
C: "SE" (E control)On two occasions clarifications were prefixedby "now" and twice by "so".
On the final twooccasions there was no such marker, and a di-rect question was used.3.3.4 An  exp lanat ion  of  in terrupt ions .We have just described the circumstances inwhich interruptions occur, but can we now ex-plain why they occur?
We suggest he follow-ing two principles might account for interrup-127tions: these principles concern: (a) the infor-mation upon which the participants are basingtheir plans, and (b) the plans themselves.(A).
In format ion  qual ity: Both expertand client must believe that the informa-tion that the expert has about the prob-lem is true and that this information issufficient o solve the problem.
This canbe expressed by the following two ruleswhich concern the truth of the informa-tion and the ambiguity of the information:(A1) if the speaker believes a fact P andbelieves that fact to be relevant and eitherbelieves that the speaker believes not P orthat the speaker does not know P then in-terrupt; (A2) If the listener believes thatthe speaker's assertion is relevant but am-biguous then interrupt.(B).
P lan  qual ity: Both expert and clientmust believe that the plan that the ex-pert has generated is adequate to solvethe problem and it must be comprehensi-ble to the client.
The two rules which ex-press this principle concern the effective-heSS of the plan and the ambiguity of theplan: (B1) If the listener believes P andeither believes that P presents an obstacleto the proposed plan or believes that partof the proposed plan has already been sat-isfied, then interrupt; (B2) If the listenerbelieves that an assertion about the pro-posed plan is ambiguous, then interrupt.In this framework, interruptions can be seenas strategies produced by either conversationalparticipant when they perceive that a eitherprinciple is not being adhered to.3.4 Cue reliability.
We also investigatedwhether there were occasions when prompts,repetitions and summaries failed to elicit thecontrol shifts we predicted.
We considered twopossible types of failure: either the speakercould give a cue and continue or the speakercould give a cue and the listener fall to re-spond.
We found no instances of the firstcase; although speakers did produce phraseslike "OK" and then continue, the "OK" wasalways part of the same intonational contouras that further information and there was nobreak between the two, suggesting the phrasewas a prefix and not a cue.
We did, how-ever, find instances of the second case: twicefollowing prompts and once following a sum-mary, there was a long pause, indicating thatthe speaker was not ready to respond.
Weconducted a similar analysis for those cuewords that have been identified in the liter-ature.
Only 21 of the 35 repetitions, sum-maries and interruptions had cue words asso-ciated with them and there were also 19 in-stances of the cue words "now", "and", "so","but" and "well" occurring without a controlshift.4 Contro l  cues and globalcontrolThe analysis so far has been concerned withcontrol shifts where shifts were identified froma series of rules which related utterance typeand control.
Examination of the dialoguesindicated that there seemed to be differenttypes of control shifts: after some shifts thereseemed to be a change of topic, whereas forothers the topic remained the same.
We nextwent on to examine the relationship betweentopic shift and the different ypes of cues andinterruptions described earlier.
To do this itwas necessary first to classify control shifts ac-cording to whether they resulted in shifts oftopic.4.1 Ident i fy ing topic shifts.
We iden-tified topic shifts in the following way: Fivejudges were presented with the four dialoguesand in each of the dialogues we had markedwhere control shifts occurred.
The judges were128asked to state for each control shift whetherit was accompanied by a topic shift.
All fivejudges agreed on 24 of the 56 shifts, and 4agreed for another 22 of the shifts.
Wherethere was disagreement, the majority judg-ment was taken.4.2 Topic shift and type  of  controlshift.
Analysing each type of control shift,it is clear that there are differences" betweenthe cues used for the topic shift and theno shift cases.
For interruptions, 90% oc-cur within topic, i.e.
they do not result intopic shifts.
The pattern is not as obvious forprompts and repetitions/summaries, with 57%of prompts occurring within topic and 67% ofrepetitions/summaries occurring within topic.This suggests that change of topic is a care-fully negotiated process.
The controlling par-ticipant signals that he is ready to close thetopic by producing either a prompt or a rel>-etition/summary and this may or may not beaccepted by the other participant.
What isapparent is that it is highly unusual for aparticipant o seize control and change topicby interruption.
It seems that on the ma-jority of occasions (63%) participants walt forthe strongest possible cue (the prompt) beforechanging topic.4.3 Other  re lat ions between topic  andcontrol.
We also looked at more generalaspects of control within and between top-ics.
We investigated the number of utterancesfor which each participant was in control andfound that there seemed to be organisationin the dialogues above the level of topic.
Wefound that each dialogue could be divided intotwo parts separated by a topic shift which welabelled the central shift.
The two parts ofthe dialogue were very different in terms ofwho controlled and initiated each topic.
Be-fore the central shift, the client had controlfor more turns per topic and after it, the ex-pert had control for more turns per topic.The respective numbers of turns client and ex-pert are in control before and after the centralshift are :Before 11-7,22-8,12-6,21-6; After 12-33,16-23,2-11,0-5 for the four dialogues.
Withthe exception of the first topic in Dialogues 1and 4, the client has control of more turns inevery topic before the central shift, whereas af-ter it, the expert has control for more turns inevery topic.
In addition we looked at who ini-tiated each topic, i.e.
who produced the firstutterance of each topic.
We found that in eachdialogue, the client initiates all the topics be-fore the central shift, whereas the expert initi-ates the later ones.
We also discovered a closerelationship between topic initiation and topicdominance.
In 19 of the 21 topics, the per-son who initiated the topic also had Control ofmore turns.
As we might expect, the point atwhich the expert begins to have control overmore turns per topic is also the point at whichthe expert begins to initiate new topics.5 ConclusionsThe main result of this exploratory study isthe finding that control is a useful parameterfor identifying discourse structure.
Using thisparameter we identified three levels of struc-ture in the dialogues: (a) control phases; (b)topic; and (c) global organisation.
For the con-trol phases, we found that three types of utter-maces (prompts, repetitions and summaries)were consistently used to signal control shifts.For the low level structures we identified, (i.e.control phases), cue words and phrases werenot as reliable in predicting shifts.
This re-sult challenges the claims of recent discoursetheories (5, 10) which argue for a the close re-lation between cue words and discourse struc-ture.
We also examined how utterance typerelated to topic shift and found that few inter-ruptions introduced a new topic.
Finally therewas evidence for high level structures in thesedialogues as evidenced by topic initiation and129control, with early topics being initiated anddominated by the client and the opposite be-ing true for the later parts.Another focus of current research as been \[3\]the modelling of speaker and listener goals (1,3) but there has been little research on realdialogues investigating how goals are commu-nicated and inferred.
This study identifiessurface linguistic phenomena which reflect he \[4\]fact that participants are continuously moni-toring their goals.
When plans are perceivedas succeeding, participants use explicit cuessuch as prompts, repetitions and summaries \[5\]to signal their readiness to move to the nextstage of the plan.
In other cases, where partic-ipants perceive obstacles to their goals beingachieved, they resort to interruptions and wehave tried to make explicit the rules by which \[6\]they do this.In addition our methodology is differentfrom other studies because we have attemptedto provide an explanation for whole dialoguesrather than fragments of dialogues, and usedexplicit criteria in a bottom-up manner to \[7\]identify discourse structures.
The number ofdialogues was small and taken from a singleproblem domain.
It seems likely therefore thatsome of our findings (e.g the central shift) willbe specific to the diagnostic dialogues we stud-ied.
Further esearch applying the same tech- \[8\]niques to a broader set of data should establishthe generality of the control rules suggestedhere.References\[1\] Allen, J.F.
and Perrault, C.R.
(1980).Analyzing intentions in utterances.
Ar-tificial Intelligence, 15, 143-178.\[2\] Brennan, S. E., Friedman, M. W., andPollard, C. (1987) A centering approachto pronouns.
In Proceedings of the 25th\[lO\]Annual Meeting of the Association forComputational Linguistics.Cohen, P. R. and Levesque, H. J.
(1985)Speech acts and rationality.
In Proceed-ings of the ~3th Annual Meeting of theAssociation for Computational Linguis-tics.Grosz, B. J., Joshi, A. K., Weinstein, S.(1986) Towards a computational theoryof discourse interpretation.
Draft.Grosz, B. J., and Sidner, C. L. (1986) At-tentions, intentions and the structure ofdiscourse.
Computational Linguistics, 12,175 - 204.Guindon, R., Sladky, P., Brunner, H.,and Conner, J.
(1986).
The structure ofuser-adviser dialogues: Is there methodin their madness?
In Proceedings of the24th Annual Meeting of the Associationfor Computational Linguistics.Hirschberg, J. and Pierrehumhert, J.
B.
(1986) The intonational structuring ofdiscourse.
In Proceedings of the ~4th An-nual Meeting of the Association for Com-putational Linguistics.Levin, J.
A. and Moore, J.
A.
(1977) Dia-logue games: metacommunication struc-tures for natural language interaction.Cognitive Science, 4, 395 - 421.Polanyi, L. and Scha, R. (1983).
Con-nectedness in Sentence, Discourse andTe~t.
Tilburg University, Tilburg, 141-178.Reichman, R. (1985) Getting computersto ta& like you and me.
Cambridge, M.A.
:MIT Press.130
