ADAPTING AN ENGLISH MORPHOLOGICAL ANALYZER FORFRENCHRoy J. Byrd and Evelyne TzoukermannIBM ResearchIBM q~omas J. Watson Research CenterYorktown lleights, New York 10598ABSTRACTA word-based morphological nalyzer and a dic-tionary for recognizing inflected forms of Frenchwords have been built by adapting the UDICI"system.
We describe the adaptations, emphasiz-ing mechanisms developed to handle Frenchverbs.
This work lays the groundwork for doingFrench derivational morphology and morphologyfor other languages.1.
Introduction.UDICT is a dictionary system intended to sup-port the lexical needs of computer programs thatdo natural anguage processing (NLP).
Its t'u-stversion was built for English and has been usedin several systems needing a variety of informa-tion about English words (Heidorn, et a1.
(1982),Sowa(1984), McCord(1986), and Neff andByrd(1987)).
As described in Byrd(1986),UDICT provides a framework for supplying syn-tactic, semantic, phonological, and morphologicalinformation about the words it contains.Part of UDICT's apparatus is a morphologicalanalysis subsystem capable of recognizingmorphological variants of the words who~lemma forms are stored in UDICT's dictionary.The English version of this analyzer has been de-scribed in Byrd(1983) and Byrd, et al (1986) andallows UDICT to recognize inflectionally andderivationally affixed words, compounds, andcollocations.
The present paper describes an ef-fort to build a French version of UDICT.
Itbriefly discusses the creation of the dictionarydata itself and then focuses on issues ,raised inhandling French inflectional morphology.2.
The Dictionary.The primary role of the dictionary in an NLPsystem is to store and retrieve information aboutwords, in order for NLP systems to be effective,their dictionaries must contain a lot of informa-tion about a lot of words.
Chodorow, et al(1985)and Byrd, et al(1987) discuss techniques forbuilding dictionaries with the required scope byextracting lexical information from machine-readable versions of published ictionaries.
Be-sides serving the NLP application, some of thelexicai information supports that part of the dic-tionary's access mechanism which permits recog-nition of morphological variants of the storedwords.
We have build a UDICT dictionary con-taining such morphological information forFrench by starting with an existing spelling cor-rection and synonym aid dictionary ~and by add-ing words and information from theFrench-English dictionary in Collins(1978).French UDICT contains a data base of over40,000 lemmata which are stored in a direct accessfile managed by the Dictionary Access Method(Byrd, et al (1986)).
Each entry in this file hasone of the lemmata s its key and contains lexicalinformation about that lemma.
Other than theword's part-of-speech, this information is repres-ented as binary features and multi-valued attri-butes.
The feature information relevant forinflectional analysis includes the following:(1) features :part -of-speechs ingu larp lu ra lmascullnefeminineWe are grateful to the Advanced Language Development group ofMaryland, for aocess to their French lexical materials.
Those materialsparts-of-speech and paradigm classes.IBM's Application Systems Division in Bethesda,include initial categorizations of French words intoinvarlantfirst (second, third) personinfinitivepartlclplepastpresentfutureimperfects Imple pastsubjunctiveindicativecondltlonalimperativeSome of these features are explicitly stored inUDICT's data base.
Other features -- includingmany of the stored ones -- control morphologicalprocessing by being tested and set by rules inways that will be described in the next section.Stored features and attributes which are not af-fected by (and do not affect) morphologicalprocessing are called "morphologically neutral.
"Morphologically neutral information appears inUDICT's output with its stored values unaltered.Such information could include translations froma transfer dictionary in a machine translationsystem or selectional restrictions used by an NLPsystem.
For French, no such information isstored now, but in other work (Byrd, et al(1987)) we have demonstrated the feasibility oftransferring some additional exical information(for example, semantic features such as\ [+human\])  from English UDICT via bilingualdictionaries.It may be useful to point out that, given theability to store such information about words,one way of building a lexical subsystem wouldbe to exhaustively list and store all inflected wordsin the language with their associated lexical in-formation.
There are at least three good reasonsfor not doing so.
First, even with the availabilityof efficient storage and retrieval mechanisms, thenumber of inflected forms is prohibitively large.We estimate that the ratio of the number ofFrench inflected forms to lemmata is around 5 (alittle more for verbs, a little less for adjectives andnouns).
This ratio would require our 40,000lemmata to be stored as 200,000 entries, ~norethan we would like.
The second reason is thatinflected forms sharing the same lemma also sharea great deal of other lexical information: namelythe morphologically neutral information men-tioned earlier.
Redundant storage of that infor-mation in many related inflected forms does notmake sense linguistically or computationally.Furthermore, as new words are added to the dic-tionary, it would be an unnecessary complicationto generate the inflected forms and duplicate themorphologically neutral information.
Storing theinformation only once with the iemma and al-lowing it to be inherited by derived forms is amore reasonable approach.
Third, it is clear thatthere are many regular processes at work in theformation of inflected forms from their lemmata.Discovering eneralizations to capture those reg-ularities and building computational mechanismsto handle them is an interesting task in its ownright.
We now turn to some of the details of thattask.3.
Morphological Processing.3.1.
The mechanism.
The UDICT  morphologicalanalyzer assumes that words are derived fromother words by affixation, followingAronoff(1976) and others.
Consequently,UDICVs word grammar contains affix ruleswhich express conditions on the base word andmakes assertions about the affixed word.
Theseconditions and assertions are stated in terms ofthe kinds of lexical information listed in (1).An example of an affix rule is the rule for formingFrench plural nouns shown in Figure 1.
Thisrule -- which, for example, derives chevaux  fromcheva l  - -  consists of five parts.
First, a boundarymarker indicates whether the affix is a prefix or asuffix and whether it is inflectional or deriva-tional.
(Byrd(1983) describes further possibledistinctions which have so far not been exploitedin the French system.)
Second, the affix name isan identifier which will be used to describe themorphological structure of the input word.Third, the pattern expres~s string tests andmodifications to be performed on the input word.In this case, the string is tested for aux at its rightend (since this is a suffix rule), two characters areremoved, and the letter / is appended, yielding apotential base word.
This base word is lookedup via a recursive invocation of the rule applica-tion mechanism which includes an attempt to re-trieve the form from the dictionary of storedlemmata.
The fourth part of the rule, the condi-tion, expresses constraints which must be met bythe base word.
In this case, it mu~ be a mascu-line singular (and not plural) noun.
The fifth partof the rule, the assertion, expresses modificationsto be made to the features of the base in order to-pn: aux21* (noun 4-masc +sing -plur) (noun +plur -sing)II l I l\[ I \[ \[ assert ion\[ \[ I condi t ion\[ \[ pat tern  ( "check for  'aux ' ,  remove 'ux ' ,  add '1 ' ,  lookup")\[ a f f i x  name ( "p lura l  noun")a f f i x  boundary ( " in f lec t iona l  su f f i x " )Figure I.
The structure of a UDICT  morphological rule.describe the derived word.
For this rule, the sin-gular feature is turned off and the plural featureis turned on.
Features not mentioned in the as-sertion retain their original values; in effect, thederived word contains inherited morphologicallyneutral exical information from the base com-bined with information asserted by the rule.For the input chevaux ("hones"), the rule shownin Figure 1 will produce the following analysis:(2) chevaux: cheva l (noun p lur  masc(structure <<*>N -pn>N))In other words, ehevaux is derived from cheval.It is a plural noun by assertion.
It is masculineby inheritance.
Its structure consists of the basenoun chevai (represented by "<*>N") togetherwith the inflectional suffix ?-pn".In order for rules such as lhese to operate, thereis a critical dependance on having reliable andextensive lexical information about words hy-pothesized as bases.
This information comesfrom three sources: the stored dictionary, redun-dancy rules, and other recursively applied affixrules.While the assumption that affixes derive wordsfrom other words seems entirely appropriate forEnglish, it at fast seemed less so for French.
Aninitial temptation was to write affix rules whichderived inflected words by adding affixes to non-word stems.
This was especially true for verbswhere the inflected forms are often shortcr thanthe infinitives used as lemmata, and where someof the verbs -- particularly in the third group --have very complex paradigms.
However, ourrules' requirement for testable lexical informationon base forms cannot be met by a system inwhich bases arc not words.
The machine-readable sources from which we build UDICTdictionaries do not contain information aboutnon-word stems.
It is furthermore difficult todesign procedures for eliciting such informationfrom native speakers, since people don't haveintuitions about forms that are not words.
Con-scqucntly, we have maintained the English modelin which only words are stored in UDICT's dic-tionary.UDICT's word grammar includes redundancyrules which allow the expression of further gen-eralizations about the properties of words.
In asense, they represent an extension of the analysistechniques u~d to populate the dictionary andtheir output could well be stored in the diction-ary.
The following example shows two redun-dancy rules in the French word grammar:(3) : 0 (adJ -masc -fem)(adJ +masc): e0 (adj +masc) (adJ +fem)The first rule has no boundary or affix name andits pattern does nothing to the input word.
Itexpresses the notion that if an adjective is notexplicitly marked as either masculine or feminine(the condition), then it should at least be consid-ered masculine (the assertion).
The second rulesays that any masculine adjective which ends ine is also feminine.
Examples are the adjectivesabsurde, reliable, and vaste which are both mas-culine and feminine.
Such rules r~duce the bur-den on dictionary analysis techniques whose jobis to dctermine the gcndcrs of adjectives frommachine-readable resources.For inflectional affixation, we normally derive theinflcctcd form directly from the lemma.
How-evcr, rccursivc rule application plays a role in thedcrivation of feminine and plural forms of nouns,adjectives, and participles -- which will be dis-cussed under "noun and adjective morphology"- -  and in our method for handling stemmorphology of the French verbs belonging to thethird group, which will be discussed under "verbmorphology".3.2.
Noun and adjective morphology.
For nounsand adjectives, where inflectional changes to aword's spelling occur only at its rightmost end,the word-based model was simple to maintain.a.
-vpres: ent$ (v +inf) (v -Inf +ind +pres +plur +pets3)b.
-vsubJ: es$ (v +inf) (v -inf +subj +pres +sing +pers2)c. -vlmpf: ions$ (v +inf) (v -Inf +ind +impf +plur +persl)d. -vpres: e$ (v +Inf) (v -Inf +ind +imp +pres +plur ~persl +pers3)e. -vpres: ons$ (v +inf) (v -inf +ind +imp +pres +plur +pets1)Figure 2.
Morphological rules which invoke the spelling rules.As shown in Figure 1, the pattern mechanismsupports the needed tests and modifications.
Forrecognition of feminine plurals, we treat thefeminine-forming affixes as derivational ones (us-ing an appropriate boundary), so that recursiverule application assures that they always occur~'mside of" the plural inflectional affix.
For ex-ample heureuses is analyzed as the plural ofheureuse which itself is the feminine of heureux("happy').
Similarly, dlues ('chosen or elected')is the plural of ~lue which, in turn, is the feminineof ~lu itself analyzed as the past participle of theverb ~lire ('to vote').
The final section of thepaper mentions another justification for treatingfeminine-forming affixes as derivational.3.3.
Verb morphology.
Many French verbs be-longing to the first group (i.e., those whoseinfinitives end in -er, except for aller) showinternal spelling changes when certain inflectionsare applied.
Examples are given in (4) where theinflected forms on the right contain spelling al.terations of the infinitive forms on the left.
(&)a .
peser  - (ils) p~sentb.
cdder - (que tu) c~desc .
essuyer  - ( tu )  essulesd.
Je ter  - ( Je ,  i l )  j e t tee.
placer - (nous) plefonsThese spelling changes are predictable and are notdirectly dependent on the particular affix that isbeing applied.
Rather, they depend onphonological properties of the affix such aswhether it is silent, which vowel it begins with,etc.
There are seven such spelling rules whose jobis to relate the spelling of the word part ~'msideof" the inflectional affix to its infmitive form.These rules are given informally in (5).
(Thesample patterns should be interpreted as inFigure 1 and are intended to suggest the strategyused to construct infinitive forms from theinflected form.
"C" represents an arbitrary con-sonant, "D" represents  or I, and "=" represents arepeated letter.
)(5) spe l l ing  ru les :t l yer* -  change i to y and add er, as inessuies/essuyer~lcer*  - change C to c and add er, as inpla?ons/placerge0r*  - add r, as in mangeons/manger~C2eCer* - remove grave accent fromstem vowel and add er, as in p~sent/peser~C2~Cer* - change grave accent o acuteon stem vowel and add er, as incddes/cdder~CC3~CCer* - like the preceding butwith a consonant cluster, as ins~chent/s~cherD=ler*  - remove the repeated consonantand add er, as in jette/jeterIt would be inappropriate and uneconomical totreat these spcUing rules within the affix rulesthemselves.
If we did so, the same "fact" wouldbe repeated as many times as there were rules towhich it applied.
Rather, we handle these sevenspelling rules with special logic which not onlyencodes the rules but also captures sequentialconstraints on their application: if one of themapplies for a #oven affix, then none of the otherswill apply.
The spelling rules are invoked fromthe affix rules by placing a "$" rather than a "*"in the pattern to denote a recursive lookup.
Ineffect, the base form is looked up modulo the setof possible spelling changes.
Example affix ruleslargely responsible for (and corresponding to) theforms shown in (4) are #oven in Figure 2.Verbs of the third group are highly irregular.Traditional French grammar books usually assigneach verb anywhere from one to six stem forms.Some examples are #oven in (6).
(6) stems for third group verbs:a. partir has sterns par-, part-a.
-vcond: rlons5* (v +stem -inf) (v +cond +pres +plur +persl)b.
+vstem: saulvo?r* (v +inf -stem) (v +stem -?nf)c. saurlons: savolr(verb cond pres plur persl (structure <<*>V -vcond>V))Figure 3.
An example of stem morphology.b.
savoir has stems ai-, say-, sau-, sach-,$.c .
apercevoir, concevoir, ddcevoir,percevoir, recevoir have stems in -~o/-,-cev-, -~:o/v-d. contredire, dddire, dire, interdire,mJdire, maudire, prJdire, redire havestems in -dis-, -di-, -d-Since our derivations are to be based on lemmata,we need a way to associate infinitives with ap-propriate stem forms.
The mechanism we havechosen is to let a special set of verb stem rulesperform that association.
Recognition of theinflected form of a third group verb thus becomesa two-step process.
In the first step, the outer-most affix is recognized, and its inner part istested for being a valid stem.
In the second step,a verb stem rule attempts to relate the stem pro-posed by the inflectional affix rule to an infmitivein the dictionary.
If it succeeds, it marks theproposed stem as a valid one and the entire deri-vation succeeds.Consider, as an example, the rules and systemoutput shown in Figure 3.
During the analysisof the input saurions ("(we) would know'), therule in Figure 3(a) will first recognize and removethe ending -rions, and then ask whether the re-suiting sau meets the condition "(v +stem-Lnf)" .
Application of the verb stem rule inFigure 3(b) will successfully relate sau to savoirand assert its description to include "(v +stem- in f ) " ,  thus meeting the condition of rule (a).The result will be the successful recognition ofsaurions with the analysis given in Figure 3(c).Note that the structure given does not mentionthe occurrence of the "+vstem" affix; this is in-tentionai and reflects our belief that the two-levelstructural analysis -- inflectional affix plusinfinitive lemma -- is the appropriate output forall verbs.
The intermediate stem level, while im-portant for our processing, is not shown in theoutput for verbs of the third group.
"l~e French word grammar contains 165 verbstem rules and another 110 affix rules for thirdgroup verbs.
Given the extent of the idiosyncrasyof these verbs and their finite number (there areonly about 350 of them), it is natural to wonderwhether we might not do just as well by storingthe inflected forms.
In addition to the argumentsgiven above (about redundant storage ofmorphologically neutral lexical information, etc.
),we can observe that there are generalizations tobe made for which treatment by rule is appropri-ate.
The lists of verbs shown in (6c,d) havecommon stem pattemings.
Lexicalization of thederived forms of these words would not allow usto capture these generMiTations or to handle theadmittedly rare coinage of new words which fitthese patterns.4.
Summary and further workA recoguizer for French inflected words has beenbuilt using a modified version of UDICT, whichis progranuned in PL/I and runs on IBMmainframe computers.
Approximately 400 affixand verb stem rules were required, of which overhalf are devoted to the analysis of French verbsbelonging to the third group.
15 redundancyrules and 7 spelling rules were also written.
Inaddition to many minor changes not mentionedin this paper, the major effort in adapting theformerly English-only UDICT system to Frenchinvolved handling stem morphology.
FrenchUDICT contains a dictionary of over 40,000lemmata, providing fairly complete initial cover-age of most French texts, and forming a settingin which to add further, morphologically neutral,lexical information as required by various appli-cations.We are testing French UDICT with a corpus ofCanadian French containing well over 100,000word types.
(q~e corpus size is close to100,000,000 tokens.)
Initial results how that therecognizer successfully analyzes over 99% of themost frequent 2,000 types in the corpus, after wediscard those which are proper names or notFrench.
For a small number of words (fewerthan 25), spurious information was added to thecorrect analysis.
Work continues toward elimi-nating those errors.We believe that the resulting machinery will beadequate for building dictionaries for otherEuropean languages in which we are interested(Spanish, Italian, and German).
In particular,we believe that the spelling rule mechanism willhelp ha reeoguizing German umlauted forms andthat the stem mechanism will serve to handlehighly irregular paradigms in all of these lan-guages.Expressing spelling rules in a more symbolic no-tation (rather than as logic in a subroutine in-voked from affix rules) would facilitate the taskof the grammar writer when creatingmorphological nalyzers for new languages.
ForFrench, the bulk of the work done by spellingrules is on behalf of verbs of the first group.However, some of the spelling changes are alsoobserved in other verbs and in nouns and adiec-rives.
Currently those effects are handled by affixrules.
We look forward to generalizing the cov-erage of our spelling rules and thereby furthersimplifying the affix rules.We also plan to expand our word ganunar tohandle the more productive parts of French deft.rational morphology.
The attachment ofderiva-tional affixes to words is constrained byconditions on a much more extensive set of lexi-cal features than the attachment of inflectionalaffixes.
For example, we have observed thatfeminine-forming suffixes apply only to nounswhich denote humans or domestic animals.
Theidiosyncrasy of this constraint is typical of deri-vational affixes and provides further justificationfor our earlier decision to treat feminine-formingsuffixes as derivational.
By discovering and ex-ploiting such regularities within our framework,we expect o cover a large set of derivational f-fixes.References.Aronoff, M. (1976) Word Formation in Genera-tive Grammar, Linguistic Inquiry Monograph 1,MIT Press, Cambridge, Massachusetts.Byrd, R. J.
(1983) "Word formation in naturallanguage processing systems," Proceedings ofIJCAI- VIII, 704-706.Byrd, R. J.
(1986) "Dictionary Systems for OfficePractice, ?
IBM Research Report RC 11872, T.J.Watson Research Center, Yorktown lleights,New York.Byrd, R. J., G. Neumann, and K. S. B.Andersson (1986a) "DAM - A Dictionary AccessMethod," IBM Research Report, IBM T.J.Watson Research Center, Yorktown Heights,New York.Byrd, R. J., J. L. Klavans, M. Aronoff, and F.Anshen.
(1986b) "Computer Methods forMorphological Analysis," Proceedings of the As-sociation for Computational Linguistics, !20-127.Byrd, R. J., N. Calzolari, M. S. Chodomw, J. L.Klavans, M. S. Neff, and O.
A. Rizk (1987)"Tools and Methods for ComputationalLexicology,'.
IBM Research Report RC 12642,IBM T.J. Watson Research Center, Yorktownl leights, New York.
(to be published in Compu-tational Linguistics 1987)Chodorow, M. S., R. J. Byrd, and G. E. tleidom(1985) "Extracting semantic hierarchies from alarge on-line dictionary," Proceedings of the As-sociation for Computational Linguistics, 299-304.Colfins (1978) Collins Robert French Dictionary:French-English.
English-French.
Collins Publish-ers, Glasgow.llcidom, G. E., K. Jensen, L. A. Miller, R. J.Byrd, and M. S. Chodorow (1982) "TheEPISTLE Text-Critiquing System," tBM SystemsJournal 21,305-326.Klavans, J., Nartey, J., Pickover, C. Reich, D.,Rosson, M., and Thomas, J.
(1984) "WALRUS:lligh-quality text-to-speech research system,"Proceedings of IEEE Speech Synthesis and Re-cognition, pp.
19-28.McCord, Michael C. (1986) "Design of a Prolog-Based Machine Translation System', \['roe.
ThirdInternational Conference on Logic Programming,Springer-Verlag, 350-374.Neff, M. S. and R. J. Byrd (1987) "WordSmithUsers Guide: Version 2.0," IBM Research ReportRC 13411, IBM TJ.
Watson Research Center,Yorktown tteights, New York.Sowa, J. F. (1984) "Interactive Language Imple-mentation System," IBM J. of Research and De-velopment, vol.
28, no.
1, January 1984, pp.
28-38.
