Defining the Semantics of Verbal Modifiersin the Domain of Cooking TasksRobin F. KarlinDepartment of Computer  and Information ScienceUniversity of PennsylvaniaPhiladelphia, PA  19104-6389AbstractSEAFACT (Semantic Analysis For the Animation ofCooking Tasks) is a natural language interface to acomputer-generated animation system operating inthe domain of cooking tasks.
SEAFACT allows theuser to specify cooking tasks "using a small subset ofEnglish.
The system analyzes English input and pro-duces a representation f the task which can drivemotion synthesis procedures.
Tl~is paper describesthe semantic analysis of verbal modifiers on whichthe SEAFACT implementation is based.Introduct ionSEAFACT is a natural language interface toa computer-generated animation system (Karlin,1988).
SEAFACT operates in the domain of cookingtasks.
The domain is limited to a mini-world con-sisting of a small set of verbs chosen because theyinvolve rather complex arm movements which will beinteresting to animate.
SEAFACT allows the user tospecify tasks in this domain, using a small subset ofEnglish.
The system then analyzes the English inputand produces a representation of the task.
An intelli-gent simulation system (Fishwick, 1985,1987), whichis currently being extended, will provide the final linkbetween the SEAFACT representation and lower levelmotion synthesis procedures.
The representation con-sists of a decomposition of verbs into primitive actionswhich are semantically interpretable by the motionsynthesis procedures.
It also includes default infor-mation for all knowledge which is not made explicitin the input, but must be explicit in the animatedoutput.
The representation contains sufficient non-geometric information needed to schedule task startand end times, describe concurrent actions, and pro-vide reach, grasp, and motion goals.An empirical, linguistic study of recipes was con-ducted with the goals of delimiting the scope of thecooking domain, identifying important verbal mod-ifiers, and defining the semantics of those modifiers.This paper is concerned primarily with describing theresults of this study and the implementation f someof the modifiers.A Linguistic Analysis of VerbalModifiersAn empirical study of approximately II0 sentencesfrom nine cookbooks was carried out.
Verbal mod-ifiers were found to play an essential role in the ex-pressive power of these sentences.
Therefore, in orderto develop a representation for the verbal modifiers,the study describes and categorizes their occurencesand provides a semantic analysis of each of the cate-gories.
Each of the categories i considered a seman-tic role in the representation f the natural anguageinput.
Temporal adverbials were found to be partic-ularly prevalent in recipes because they are neededto specify temporal information about actions whichis not inherent in the meaning of verbs and their ob-jects.
This paper discusses two categories of temporalmodifiers: duration and repetitions as well as speedmodifiers.
Other categories of modifiers which wereanalyzed include quantity of the object, end result,instrument, and force.Passonnean (1986) and Waltz (1981,1982) are con-cerned with developing semantic representations ad-equate for representing adverbial modification.
Pas-sonneau's work shows that to account for tense andgrammatical aspect requires a much more complexrepresentation f the temporal components of lan-guage than the one used in SEAFACT.
However, shedoes not look at as many categories of temporal ad-verhials, nor does she propose ~specific representa-tion for them.
Waltz (1982) suggests that adverbswill be represented by the scales in his event shapediagrams.
For example, time adverbials will be tel>-61resented by the time scale and quantity adverbialsby the scale for quantity of the verbal objects.
Thisis similar to the approach taken in SEAFACT.
InSEAFACT scales are replaced by default amounts forthe category in question, for example the duration ofa primitive action.Aspectua l  Category  o f  an  EventThe aspectual category of an event is relevant becauseit affects which types of modifiers (e.g., repetitions,duration) can co-occur with the event.
The analy-sis of aspect given in Moens (1987) (see also (Moens,1988)) is adopted here.
Moens and Steedman iden-tify temporal/aspectual types following Vendler, butintroduce new terminology.
They apply these typesto entire sentences, analyzed in their global context.Moens and Steedman's events are classified as culmi-nated processes, culminations, points, or processes.The majority of events in the cooking domain arecalmina~ed procesaes.
A culminated process isa state of affairs that also extends in timebut that does have a particular culminationassociated with it at which a change of statetakes place.
(Moens, 1987, p. 1)Each process in cooking must have a culmination be-cause any cooking task involves a finite sequence ofsteps, whose goal is to bring about a state change.
Animportant point about verbal modifiers in the cook-ing domain, revealed in this study, is that many ofthem are concerned with characterizing the culmina-tion points of processes.
In many cases a verb andobject alone do not specify a clear culmination point.For example, the command beat the crpam doesnot contain information about the desired culmina-tion of the process, that is, when to stop the beating.Some sort of verbal modifier such as for 10 minutesor just until it forms peaks is necessary to specifythe culmination of the process.Another aspectual type is a culmination.
A culmi-nation isan event which the speaker views as accom-panied by a transition to a new state of theworld.
This new state we will refer to as the"consequent state" of the event.
(Moens,1987, p. 1)Culminations, such as cover the pot, are not ex-tended in time as are processes and culminated pro-CesseS.In addition to the sentential aspect discussedabove, the SEAFACT implementation identifies thelexical aspect of the verb.
The lexical aspect refersto the aspectual category which can be ascribed toa verb considered outside of an utterance.
For ex-ample, the lexical aspect of the verb stir is a process.However, the sentential spect of the sentence s~ir thesoap for S minates is a culminated process.
The im-plementation checks that the sentential spect of eachinput sentence containing a process verb is a culmi-nated process.
That is, there must be some verbalmodifier which coerces the process into a culminatedprocess.
If this is not the case, as in the sentencestir the soap, then the input is rejected since it wouldspecify an animation without an ending time.
Thelexical aspect is also used in the analysis of speedmodifiers, as discussed below.The  Number  o f  Repet i t ions  o f  the  Ac -t ionAny expreesion which includes an endpoint, andtherefore belongs to one Of the aspectual cla-qses ofpoints, culminations, or culminated processes can bedescribed as having a number of discrete repetitions.When a culminated process is described as having anumber of repetitions, it is the entire process which isrepeated.
Process type events cannot have a numberof repetitions associated with them since they do notinclude the notion of an end point.
The number ofrepetitions of the event can be specified as a cardinalnumber, as a frequency, or indirectly as a result ofthe object of the verb being plural, having multipleparts, or being a r~ term.Cardln~!
Count  Adverbia lsCardinal count adverbials (Mourelatos, 1981, p. 205)specify an exact number of repetitions of the event.
(1) baste  tw/ce dur ing the  cooking per iod(Rombauer, 1931, p. 350)Notice that in the case of certain verbs or sententialcontexts it is not possible to specify a number of repe-titions for a culminated process.
This is the case whenthe culmination involves a state change to the objectwhich makes a repetition of the action impossible ormeaningless.
Consider the example, *Freeze twice.Freeze is a culminated process and once the culmi-nation has taken place the new state of the substancemakes a repetition of the process redundant.
Talmy(1985) proposes a classification scheme of aspectualtypes of verb roots which formalizes this distinction.He would classify f~eeze as a one-way non-resettableverb and baste as a one-way reseflable erb (Talmy,1985, p. 77) He suggests that these types can be dis-tinguished by their ability to appear with iterative62expressions.
This distinction can also be made bymeans of world knowledge about the verbs in ques-tion.F requency  Adverb ia lsFrequency adverbials (Mourelatos, 1981, p. 205) de-scribe the number of repetitions of an action using acontinuous cale with gradable terms (Croft, 1984, p.26) such as frequently, occasionally, and seldom.
(2) Br ing to a boil,  reduce  the  heat ,  and  sim-mer  20 minutes ,  st i r r ing occasionally, unt i lvery  thick.
(Poses, 1985, p. 188)The meaning of frequency adverbials i best capturedby stating the length of the intervals between repe-titions of the action.
For example, the meaning ofoccasionally is that the number of minutes betweenincidents of stirring is large.
An additional complica-tion is that frequency adverbials must be interpretedrelative to the total length of time during which theevent may be repeated.
If the total time period islonger, the intervals must be proportionately longer.Like other gradable terms, such as tall and short,frequency adverbials are interpreted relative to theirglobal context, in this case the cooking domain.
Val-ues must be determined for each of the gradableterms, based on knowledge of typical values in the do-main.
In the SEAFACT implementation these valuesconsist of cardinal numbers which specify the lengthof an interval between repetitions of the action, ex-pressed as a percentage of the total time period.The following calculations are made when a fre-quency adverbial is present in a sentence.
The lengthof a single interval between incidents of the actionis calculated by using a percentage value associatedwith the frequency adverbial, such that IntervalTime- Percentage X TotalTime.
The number of inter-vals present during the total time period is calculatedby dividing the total time period by the sum of thelength of one incident of the action and the length ofa single interval.A simplifying assumption is made here that the in-tervals between repetitions are equal.
Occasional lymight then mean intervals which are 25 per cent ofthe total time period, and f requent ly  might mean in-tervals which are 5 per cent of the total time period.This algorithm seems to coincide with the intuitivejudgment hat it is not normal to say st ir  occasion-al ly during a very short time period such as 30 sec-onds.
In such a case, the length of an individual stir-ring event might be longer than the total time.
Thatis, for the domain in question there is some minimuminterval between stirring events which is necessary forthe term occasionally to be appropriate.P lura l  Ob jectsThe use of plural objects or mass terms with a verbmay or may not indicate that the action is to he re-peated.
The verb may indicate a single action whichis performed on multiple objects imultaneously, or itmay indicate an action which is repeated for each of anumber of objects.
This distinction does not alwayscoincide with a mental conception of the objects as amass or as individuak.
Rather, it depends on physicalattributes of the objects uch as size and consistency.
(3) chop the  nutsIn (3), world knowledge tells us that since nuts aresmall and relatively soft they can be chopped togetherin a group, perhaps using a cleaver.
(4) chop the  tomatoes  wi th  a ImlfeHere, world knowledge tells us that (4) usually re.quires a separate chopping event for each tomato,since tomatoes are large compared to knives and haveskins which are not easily pierced.
Notice that this isa case of repetition of a culminated process.
Verbalmodifiers may also be used to make explicit whetheran action is to be performed separately on each objectin a group or once on a group of objects together.
(5) beat  in the eggs one at a ~ime (Gourmet, 1986,p.
12)(fl) beat in 5 eggs unt i l  smoothIn (5), the phrase one at  a t ime makes explicit thatthere is to be a separate beating process for each egg.In (6), a sentence without a verbal modifier, the cul-rnlnated process beat  in is performed once on theobjects indicated.The  Durat ion  o f  an  Act ionAny expression whose aspectual type is a processor culminated process can co-occur with a durationmodifier.
The duration of a culminated process refersto the amount of time it continues before the culmi-nation of the process.
Duration can be specified asa cardinal number or a gradable term, correspond-ing to the categories used for number of repetitions.Duration can also be specified as co-extensive withthe duration of another event, in terms of the changewhich signals the culmination, and as a disjunctionof an explicit duration and a state change.Expl ic i t  Durat ion  in T ime Uni tsVerbal modifiers may specify an explicit duration bygiving a length of time.
This can be less exact whena range of time or a minimum is specified.63(7) st ir  for I minute; set aside.
(Morash, 1982, p.132)Durat ion  Given by Gradab le  TermsThe duration of an action can be specified by gradableterms on a continuous scale.
(8) b lend very briefly (Robertson, 1976, p. 316)Durat ion  Co-extens ive with the Durat ion  ofAnother  Act ionIn the cooking domain it is often necessary to do sev-eral actions simultaneously.
In such cases it is mostnatural to express the duration of one of the activitiesin terms of the duration of the other one.
(9) Cont inue to cook while gent/y folding in thecheeses with a spatula.
(Poses, 1985, p. 186)(10) Reduce  the  heat  to med ium and f ry  themil let,  stirring, for  5 minutes  or  unt i l  it  isl ight golden.
(Sahni, 1985, p. 283)Durat ion  Character i zed  by a State  ChangeAll processes in the cooking domain must have cul-minations ince cooking consists of a finite number ofsteps executed with limited resources.
The languageused to describe these processes can convey their cul-minations in different ways.
In some cases a verb maycontain inherent information about the endpoint ofthe action which it describes.
In other cases verbalmodifiers characterize the endpoint.
(11) Chop the onion.Example (11) specifies a culminated process whoseendpoint is defined by the state of the onion.
Whilethe desired final state of the onion could be speci-fied more exactly by some adverb such as f inely orcoarsely, in the absence of such a modifier an end-point can be established based on lexical knowledgeabout the state of an object which has been chopped.In many cases, however, the meaning of the processverb does not include information on the endpointof the process, or the domain requires more specificinformation than that conveyed by the verb alone.For example, in many contexts, the verb beat  doesnot supply the duration or the particular end resultof the beating which would determine the duration.This is because different amounts of beating bringabout different final states for many substances.Therefore, the cooking domain includes many ex-amples of duration of an action characterized by thespecification of a state change in the object beingacted on.
There must be some perceptual test whichverifies when a state change has occurred.
For visualchanges the test consists of looking at the substancein question.
A preparatory action is required only ifthe substance is not immediately visible, for example,if it is in the oven or in a closed pot.
Changes whichmust be perceived by other senses, usually requireadditional actions.
For example, to perform a tactiletest one must touch the substance ither directly orwith some instrument.The following is an example of a state change whichcan be perceived visually without an active test.
(12) Saute  over  high heat  until moisture is evapo-rated (Morash, 1982, p. 131)Dis junct ions of  Expl ic i t  Durat ions  and StateChanges(13) steam ~ minutes or until mussels open (Poses,1985, p. 83)The meaning of sentences in this category is notthe same as that of logical disjunction.
Example (13)does not give the cook a choice between steaming for 2minutes or until the mussels open.
The actual mean-ing of these disjunctions i that the state change is tobe used to determine the duration of the action.
Theexplicit duration provides information on the usualamount of time that is needed for the state change totake place.Ball (1985) discusses problems that arise in the se-mantic interpretation fwhat she calls metalinguisticor non-truth functional disjunction.
"The first clauseis asserted, and the right disjunct provides an alter~nate, more accessible description of the referent ofthe left disjunct.
~ (Ball, 1985, p. 3) The truth ofthese sentences depends on the truth of the first dis-junct.
Ball claims that if the first disjunct is trueand the second is not, then the sentence is still truealthough ~our impression will be that something hasgone wrong, n (Ball, 1985, p. 3)The disjunctions of explicit durations and statechanges eem to be another type of metalinguisticdisjunction.
They are very similar to the examplesgiven by Ball except hat it is the right disjunct whichdetermines the truth of the sentence and the left dis-junct which provides an alternate description.
Fur-thermore, this alternate does not have to be strictlysynonymous with the right disjunct.
The semanticsof these disjunctions includes the notion that the leftdisjunct is only an approximation.64The SpeedThe following verbal modifiers are gradable termswhich characterize the speed of the action.
(14) quickly ti lt and  turn  the dish (Heatter, 1965,p.
400)(15) rery gradually pour  (Heatter, 1965, p. 393)The SEAFACT implementation contain- values forthese terms based on knowledge of typical values inthe domain.
These values are the amount by whichthe default duration of an action should be multipliedto arrive at the new duration specified by the speedterm.The lexical aspect of the verb is used to decidewhether all or only a portion of the primitive ac-tions which comprise the verbal action are affectedby the speed factor.
If the verb is a process then onlya portion of the primitive actions are affected.
Forexample, stir the soup quickly for 5 minutes meansto make the repeated rotations of the instrumentquickly, probably in order to prevent he soup fromburning.
It does not imply that the entire motion as-sociated with stirring, which includes picking up theinstrument and putting it in the soup and later re-moving it from the soup, must be done quickly.
Thelatter interpretation would mean that the speedtermwas meant o modify the time which the entire actiontakes to complete.
However, processes in this domainmust be specified with a duration and so the durationof the entire action is already fixed.In contrast, if the lexical aspect of the verb is a cul-mination or culminated process then the duration ofthe entire action is meant to be modified by the speedterm.
An example of this is corer the pot quickly.The SEAFACT Implementat ionThere are several stages in the translation from En-glish input to the final representation required by theanimation simulator.
The first stage includes pars-ing and the production of an intermediate semanticanalysis of the input.
This is accomplished by BUP,A Bottom Up Parser (Finin, 1984).
BUP accepts anextended phrase structure grammar.
The rules con-sist of the intermediate semantic representation a dtests for rule application.
The latter include selec-tional restrictions which access information stored inseveral knowledge bases.
The intermediate seman-tic representation consists of roles and their values,which are taken from the input sentence.SEAFACT includes a number of knowledge baseswhich are implemented using DC-RL, a frame-basedknowledge representation language (Cebula, 1986).Two of these knowledge bases, the Object KB andthe Linguistic Term KB, are used by the parser toenforce selectional restrictions attached to the gram-matical rules.The Object KB contains world knowledge aboutthe objects in the domain.
It contains a representa-tion of each object which can be referred to in thenatural anguage input.
These objects are classifiedaccording to a very general conceptual structure.
Forexample, all edible items are classified as food, cook-ing tools are classified as instruments, and cookingvessels are classified as containers.
This informationis used to enforce selectional restrictions in the rulesfor prepositional phrases.
The selectional restrictionscheck the category to which the prepositional ob-ject belongs.
For example, if the prepositional objectis an instrument then the rule which applies buildsan intermediate semantic representation of the form(INSTRUMENT prepositional-objec O.
If the prepo-sitional object denotes a time, and the preposition isfor, then the rule which applies builds an intermedi-ate semantic representation f the form (DURATION(EXPLICIT prepositional-object)).The Ling~stic Term KB contain, a classificationof adverbial modifiers which is used to enforce selec-tional restrictions on the rules for adverbial phrases.For example, if an adverb is classified as a frequency~erm then the rule which applies builds an interme-diate semantic representation f the form (REPETI-TIONS (FREQUENCY fi~quency-tcrm)):The second stage in the processing is to create rep-resentations for the verb and the event.
The eventrepresentation has roles for each of the temporal ver-bal modifiers.
Each verb has its own representationcontaining roles for each of the verbal modifiers whichcan occur with that verb.
The verb representationscontain default values for any roles which are essen-tial (Palmer, 1985).
Essential roles are those whichmust be filled but not necessarily from the input sen-tence.
For example, the representation for the verbst ir  includes the essential role ins t rument  with adefault value of spoon.
After the event and verbrepresentations are created, the role values in thoserepresentations are filled in from the roles in the in-termediate semantic representation.
Default valuesare used for any roles which were not present in theinput sentence.Each verb in the input is represented by a numberof primitive actions which are interpretable by theanimation software.
In the second stage, the systemalso creates a representation f the final output whichincludes values for the starting time and duration ofeach of these actions.65The third stage in the processing is accomplishedby the Modifier Analysis Component (MAC).
Thisfunction performs the additional processing requiredby some of the temporal verbal modifiers such asfrequency terms.
This processing consists of mod-ifying the output to reflect the temporal modifiers.This may mean changing the duration of actions (forspeed and duration modifiers), modifying the numberof times the output is repeated (for repetition modi-fiers), or interspersing intervals of no action with theintervals of action (for frequency modifiers).The final output is created by filling in the primi-tive action representations with values from the verband event representations.Consider how SEAFACT processes two examplesentences.
In the first example, Stir the batter with awisk -for ~ minutes, the intermediate semantic repre-sentation includes a substance l  role filled by batter,an ins t rument  role filled by w/sk, and a durat ionrole filled by ~ minutes.
These values are inserted inthe verb and event representations for the sentence.The MAC modifies the duration of the primitive ac-tions which make up stir so that the duration of thetotal stirring event is 2 minutes.The second example, Stir the soup occasionally for2 minutes is more complicated because of the fre-quency adverbial.
The intermediate semantic repre-sentation includes substance1 role filled by soup, adurat ion  role filled by ~ minutes, and a repet i t ionsrole filled by occasionally.
These values are insertedin the verb and event representations.
The defaultvalue for the ins t rument  role, spoon, is used.
TheMAC finds the frequency adverbial and checks for thepresence of a duration.
However, if no duration werespecified, then the sentence would be rejected becausethe animation requires that each action be finite.
Theduration specifies the total time interval during whichthe frequency adverbial applies.
The algorithm de-scribed above is used to compute the length of theintervals between stirring events.
The length of asingle stirring event is a default which is part of therepresentation f the primitive actions.
The numberof stirring events which fit in the total time periodis calculated.
The output consists of repetitions ofpairs of the following type: the primitives for a stir-ring event and a specification for no action during theinterval between stirring events.
A planner could beused to insert some other action into the intervals ofno action.ConclusionThis analysis has identified categories of verbal mod-ifiers which are found frequently in recipes.
Whileall of these categories are found in other domains aswell, some of them are particularly prevalent in thisdomain because the purpose of recipes is to describeprocedures.
The temporal category which charac-terizes the duration of an action by a state changeis particularly common in recipes for two reasons.First, the physical process of cooking always involvesstate changes to objects and second, the meaning ofmany verbs used to describe cooking processes doesnot include information about the state change whichshould trigger the culmination of the process.
There-fore, verbal modifiers are necessary to make the de-sired state changes explicit.This analysis has also shown a relationship betweenaspectual categories of events and the modifiers whichmay co-occur with them.
For example, the categoriesof modifiers which express the number of repetitionsof an action can only modify expressions which in-clude an endpoint, that is, points, culminations, orculminated processes.The analysis of the verbal modifier categories re-veals many areas where common sense knowledge orphysical knowledge about the world is required to rep-resent he semantics of these categories.
For example,when an action is performed on a plural object, phys-ical knowledge about the size and consistency of theobjects and about the action itself is necessary to tenus whether it must be repeated for each of the objectsseparately or performed on all the objects in a group.SEAFACT is a successful implementation f a nat-ural language interface to a computer-generated an-imation system, operating in the domain of cookingtasks.
The primitive actions along with the timinginformation in the SEAFACT output are used to rep-resent he range of verbal modifiers discussed in thispaper.
The output will be interpreted by an interfaceto the lower level motion synthesis procedures.
Thisinterface (Badler, 1988, 1987a, 1987b) can interpreteach type of information in the SEAFACT output:motion changes (e.g.
rotation), motion goals, con-stralnts in position and orientation, and temporals.AcknowledgementsI would like to thank Dr. Bonnie Webber, Dr. Nor-man Badler, Dr. Mark Steedman, and Dr. RebeccaPassonneau for providing me with guidance and manyvaluable ideas.
This research is partial\]y supportedby Lockheed Engineering and Management Services,66NASA Grant NAG-2-4026, NSF CER Grant MCS-82-19196, NSF Grant IST-86-12984, and ARO GrantDAAG29-84-K-0061 including participation by theU.S.
Army Human Engineering Laboratory.ReferencesBadler, Norman I., Jeffrey Esakov, Diana Dadamo,and Phil Lee, Animation Using Constraints, Dynam-ics, and Kinematics, in preparation, Technical Re-port, Department ofComputer and Information Sci-ence, University of Pennsylvania, 1988.Badler, Norman I., Computer Animation Techniques,in 2nd International Gesellschafl f~r InformatikCongress on Knowledge-Based Systems, Springer-Verlag, Munich, Germany, October 1987a, pp.
22-34.Badler, Norman I., Kamran Manoochehri, and Gra-ham Waiters, Articulated Figure Positioning by Mul-tiple Constraints, IEEE Computer Graphics and Ap-plications, June 1987b, pp.
28-38.Ball, Catherine N., On the Interpretation f Descrip-tive and Metalinguistic Disjunction, unpublished pa-per, University of Pennsylvania, August 1985.Cebula, David P., The Semantic Data Model andLarge Data Requirements, University of Pennsylva-nia, CIS Dept.,Technical Report 87-79, Sept 1986.Croft, William, The Representation f Adverbs, Ad-jectives and Events in Logical Form, Technical Note344, Artificial Intelligence Center, Computer Scienceand Technology Division, SRI International, MenloPark, Ca, December 1984.Finin, Tim and Bonnie Lynn Webber, BUP A BottomUp Parser, Technical Report MC-CIS-83-16, Univer-sity of Pennsylvania, 1984.Fishwick, Paul A., The Role of Process Abstractionin Simulation, submitted to IEEE Systems, Man andCybernetics, April 1987.Fishwick, Paul A., Hierarchical Reasoning: Simulat-ing Complex Processes Over Multiple Levels of Ab-straction, PhD Thesis, Technical Report, Universityof Pennsylvania, 1985.Gourmet Magazine, Volume XLVI, Number 6, June1986.Karlin, Robin F., SEAFACT: Semantic Analysis forthe Animation of Cooking Tasks, Technical Report,MS-CIS-88-04, Graphics Lab 19, Computer and In-formation Science, University of Pennsylvania, 1988.Moens, Marc and Mark Steedman, Temporal Ontol-ogy in Natural Language, in Proceedings of the 25thAnnual Meeting of the Association for ComputationalLinguistics, ACL, 1987, pp.
1-7.Moens, Marc and Mark Steedman, forthcoming,Computational Linguistics, Volume 14, Number 2,1988.Morash, Marion Victo~ Garden Cookbook, Alfred A.Knopf, N.Y., 1982.Mourelatos, Alexander P. D., Events, Processes, andStates, in Syntaz and Semantics, Tense and Aspect,Vol.
14, Philip Tedeschi and Annie Zaenen (eds.
),Academic Press, New York, 1981, pp.
191-212.Palmer, Martha S., Driving Semantics for a LimitedDomain, PHD Dissertation, University of Edinburgh,1985.Passonneau, Rebecca J., A Computational Model ofthe Semantics of Tense and Aspect, forthcoming,Computational Linguistics , Volume 14, Number 2,1988, Tech.
Memo 43, Dec. 17, 1986, Unisys, PaoliResearch Center, Paoli, Pa, Dec. 1986.Poses, Steven, Anne Clark, and Becky Roller, TheFrog Commissary Cookbook, Doubleday & Company,Garden City, N.Y., 1985.Rombaner, Irma S. and Marion Rombauer Becker,Joy of Cooking, Signet, New American Library, N.Y.,1931.Sahni, Julie, Classic Indian Vegetarian and GrainCooking, William Morrow and Co., Inc., N.Y., 1985.Talmy, Leonard, Lexicalization Patterns: SemanticStructure in Lexical Forms, in Language typology andsyntactic description, Volume IIl, Grammatical cate-gories and the iezicon, Timothy Shopen (ed.
), Cam-bridge University Press, Cambridge, 1985.Waltz, David L., Event Shape Diagrams, in AAAI-I98~, pp.
84-87.Waltz, David L., Toward a Detailed Model of Pro-ceasing For Language Describing the Physical World,in IJCAI-1981, pp.
1-6.67
