EXPERIENCES WITH AN ON-LINE TRANSLATINGDIALOGUE SYSTEMSeiji MHKE, Koichi HASEBE, Harold SOMERS , Shin-ya AMANOResearch and Development CenterToshiba Corporation1, Komukai Toshiba-cho, Saiwai-kuKawasaki-City, Kanagawa, 210 JapanABSTRACTAn English-Japanese bi-directional machinetranslation system was connected to a keyboardconversation function on a workstation, and testedvia a satellite link with users in Japan andSwitzerland.
The set-up is described, and someinformal observations on the nature of the bilin-gual dialogues reported.INTRODUCTIONWe have been developing an English-Japanesebi-directional machine translation system imple-mented on a workstation (Amano 1986, Amano eta/.
1987).
The system, which is interactive anddesigned for use by a translator, normally runs inan interactive mode, and includes a number of spe-cial bilingual editing functions.
We recently real-ized a real-time on-line communication systemwith an automatic translation function by combin-ing a non-imeractive rsion of our Machine Trans-lation system with the keyboard conversation func-tion just like talk in UNIX**.
Using this system,bilingual conversations were held between mem-bers of our laboratory in Japan and visitors to the5th World Telecommunications Exhibition Tele-corn 87, organized by the International Telecom-munication Union, held in Geneva from 20th to27th October 1987.In the fh-st part of this paper, we discuss indetail the configuration of this system, and givesome indications of its performance.
In the secondpart, we report informally on what for us was aninteresting aspect of the experiment, namely thenature of the dialogues held using the system.
In*the Centre for Computational Linguistics,University of Manchester Institute of Science andTechnology, England**UNIX is a trademark of AT&T Bell Labora-tories.particular we were struck by the amount of meta-dialogue, i.e.
dialogue discussing the previousinterchanges: ince contributions to the conversa-tion were being translated, this metadialogueposed certain problems which we think are of gen-eral interest.
In future systems of a similarnature, we feel there is a need for users to bebriefly trained in certain conventions regardingmetadialogue, and typical system translationerrors.
Furthermore, an environment which mini-mizes such errors is desirable and the system mustbe 'tuned' to make translations appropriate to con-versation.SYSTEM CONFIGURATIONA general idea of the system is illustrated inFigure 1.
Workstations were situated in Japan andSwitzerland, and linked by a conventional satel-lite telephone connection.
The workstations ateither end were AS3260C machines.
RunningUNIX, they support he Toshiba Machine Transla-tion system AS-TRANSAC.
On this occasion, theMachine Translation capability was installed onlyat the Japanese nd, though in practice both termi-nals could run AS-TRANSAC.The workstation screens are divided into threewindows, as shown in Figure 2, not unlike in thenormal version of UNIX's talk.
The top windowshows the user's dialogue, the middle window thecorrespondenfs replies.
The important differenceis that both sides of the dialogue are displayed inthe language appropriate to the location of the ter-minal.
However, in a third small window, aworkspace at the bottom of the screen, the rawinput is also displayed.
(This access to the Englishinput at the Japanese nd is significant in the caseof Japanese users having some knowledge ofEnglish, and of course vice versa if appropriate.
)The bottom window also served the purpose ofindicating to the users that their conversation part-ners were transmitting.155OIALOGUEUSINGKEYOOARO$sva lze~Figure 1.
General Set-uptel lo, Takeda.
My name is suzanne.\[ live in geneva, but I come froe California./es, ~t  ~hen I ~as 12 ~ars old./ery interesting, Quick, and useful !~ov many languages do you spaak, Takeda ?rhet is ok. \]=-  __ 'L .
,  .
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
- - : _ ._ - ' -  I IMY name is Takeda.Please tel l  me your name.Where do YOU live?\]see.Have you visited Japan?Please tell me the impression of this machirThank you.I can speak only Japanese.IS  \[l\[ l i i l~ : SUZLHIII,C't,~qVII1 I l l= i l l  I i l \ ] l l l ' , , , i~i lBI  g I I I l~i \]Switzerland/~- ,  Tal<eclao ~o)~l~l:s u zanne~o~v,,  - - - -b~,b/~'~J 2~'~'~o~ o  k~1"oThat is ok,Figure 2.
Screen DisplayJapan156Figure 3 shows the set-up in more detail.
Atthe Japanese end, the user inputs Japanese at thekeyboard, which is displayed in the upper windowof the workstation screen.
The input is passed tothe translation system and the English output,along with the original input is then transmittedvia telecommunications li ks (KDD's Venus-P andthe Swiss PTT's Telepac in this case) to Switzer-land.
There it is processed by the keyboard conver-sation function, which displays the original inputin the workspace at the bottom of the screen, andthe translated message in the middle window onthe screen.
The set-up at the Swiss end is similarto that at the Japanese end, with the importantexception that only the original input message istransmitted, since the translation will take placeat the receiving end.TRANSLAT ION METHODAn input sentence is translated by morphologi-cal analyzer, dictionary look-up module, parser,semantic analyzer, and target sentence generator.Introducing a full-fledged semantic analyzer con-flicts with avoiding increases in processing timeand memory use.
To resolve this conflict, a Lexi-cal Transition Network Grammar (LTNG) hasbeen developed for this system.LTNG provides a semantic framework for anMT system, at the same time satisfying processingtime and memory requirements.
Its main role is toseparate parsing from semantic analysis, i.e., tomake these processes independent of each other.
InLTNG, parsing includes no semantic analysis.
Anyambiguities in an input sentence remain in the syn-tactic structure of the sentence until processed bythe semantic analyzer.
Semantic analysis proceedsaccording to a lexical grammar consisting of rulesfor converting syntactic structures into semanticstructures.
These rules are specific to words in apre-eompiled lexicon.
The lexicon consists of onehundred thousand entries for both English andJapanese.SYSTEM PERFORMANCEOnce the connection has been established, con-versation proceeds as in UNIX's talk.
An impor-tant feature of the function is that conversers donot have to take turns or wait for each other tofinish typing before replying, unlike with write.This has a significant effect on conversationalstrategy, and occasionally leads to disjointed con-versations, both in monolingual and bilingual dia-logues.
For example, a user might start to replyto a message the content of which can be predictedafter the first few words are typed in; or one usermight start to change the topic of conversationwhile the other is still typing a reply.Transmission of input via the satellite was gen-erally fast enough not to be a problem: the realbottle-neck was the physical act of input.
Noviceusers do not attain high speed or accuracy, a prob-lem exacerbated at the Swiss end by a slow screenecho.
But the problem is even greater for Japaneseinput: users typed either in romaji (i.e.
using astandard transcription into the Roman alphabet)or in hiragana (i.e.
using Japanese-syllable valuesfor the keys).
In either case, conversion into kanji(Chinese characters) is necessary (see Kawada etal.
1979 and Mori et al 1983 on kana.to-kanjiconversion); and this conversion is needed forbetween a third and a half of the input, on average(el.
Hayashi 1982:211).
Because of the large hum-AS 3260CE2conversation I_~ functionEl.,,r2.,E2PTTTelep~"J2,E2KDD E2Venus-P Jr3260C\I conversationfunctiontranslationsystemSwitzerlandFigure 3.
ConfigurationJapan157ber of homophones in Japanese, this can slowdown the speed of input considerably.
For exam-ple, even for professional typists, an input speedof 100 characters (including conversions) perminute is considered reasonable (compare xpectedspeeds of up to 100 words/minute for English typ-ing).
It is of interest o note that this kana-to-kanji conversion, which is accepted as a normalpart of Japanese word-processor usage, is in fact anatural form of pre-editing, given that it serves asa partial disambiguation f the input.On the other hand, slow typing speeds are alsoencountered for English input, one side-effect ofwhich is the use of abbreviations and shorthand.In fact, we did not encounter this phenomenon iGeneva, though in practice sessions (with nativeEnglish speakers) in Japan, this had been quitecommon.
Examples included contractions (e.g.p ls  for p lease, .u for you, cn for can), omis-sions of apostrophes (e.g.
cant,  wont, dont)and non-capitalization (e.g.
i ,  tokyo,  ja l ) .The translation time itself did not cause signif-icant delays compared to the input time, thanks toa very fast parsing algorithm, which is describedelsewhere (Nogami et al 1988).
Input sentenceswere typically rather short (English five to tenwords, Japanese around 20 characters), and transla-tion was generally about 0.7 seconds per word(5000 words/hour).
Given users' typing speed andthe knowledge that the dialogue was being trans-mitted half way around the world, what would,under other circumstances, be an unacceptably longdelay of about 15 seconds (for translation andtransmission) was generally quite tolerable,because users could observe in the third windowthat the correspondent was inputting something,even if it could not read.TRANSLATION QUALITYThis environment was a good practical test ofour Machine Translation system, given that manyof the users had little or no knowledge of the tar-get language: the effectiveness of the translationcould be judged by the extent o which communi-cation was possible.
Having said this, it shouldalso be remarked that the Japanese-English half ofthe bilingual translation system is still in theexperimental stage and so translations in thisdirection were not always of a quality comparableto those in the other direction.
To offset this, theusers at the Japanese end, who were mainlyresearchers at our laboratory and therefore famil-iar with some of the problems of Machine Transla-tion, generally tried to avoid using difficult con-structions, and tried to 'assist' the system in someother ways, notably by including subject andobject pronouns which might otherwise have beenomitted in more natural language.We recognized that the translation of certainphrases in the context of a dialogue might be dif-ferent from their translation under normal circum-stances.
For example, Engfish I see should betranslated as naruhodo rather than watashi gamiru, Japanese wakarimashita should be I under-stand rather than I have understood, and so on.Nevertheless, the variety of such conversationalfillers is so wide that we inevitably could notforesee them all.The English-Japanese translation was of a highquality, except of course where the users - beinginexperienced and often non-native speakers ofEnglish - n~de typing mistakes, e.g.
( I ) .
(Inthese and subsequent examples, E: indicatesEnglish input, J: Japanese input, and T: transla-tion.
Translations into Japanese are not shown.Typing errors and mistranslations are of coursereproduced from the original transmission.
)(la) E: this moming i came fro st. galle tovizite the exosition.E: it is vwery inyteresti ng to see somany apparates here.
(lb) E:(lc) E:J:J:I arderd "today's menu'.i would go tolike a girl.b~ 9 "~-?A,oT: I don't understand.t o 1 i k e ~j:fSJ'C"~';~oT: What is tolike?These were sometimes compounded by thedelay in screen echo of input characters, as inexample (2).
(2) E: Sometimes, I chanteh the topic,suddenly.E: I change teh topic.J: ~ ~ ~oT:I understand.E: I had many mistakes.J: ~b ~ ~: I?~-C  v-,'?
~oT: Are you tired?E: A little.E: But the main reason is the delay fodispaying.E: But the main reason is the delay ofdisplay.158Failure to identify proper names or acronymsoften led to errors (by the system) or misunder-standings (by the correspondent), as in (3a), espe-cially when the form not to be translated happensto be identical to a known word, as in (3b).
In(3b), 'go men na sai' means in Japanese that I 'msorry.
(3a) E: lars engvall.J: 1at  s engva  1 lhtfaJ""O3'-~0T: What is lars engvall?E: this is my name.
(3b) \[having been asked if he knowsJapanese\]E: How about go men na sai?T: &'?,,t: 5 Ir__Ic.-9 v-,-C~ <_Jk_n a_  s a i .This was avoided on the Japanese-English idewhere proper names were typed in romaji (4).
(4) J: ~I ,?~--~I~N o g a m i "C'"J-oT: My name is Nogami.As with any system, there were a number ofoccasions when the translation was too literal,though even these were often successfully under-stood (5).
(5) E:J:Do you want something to drink?~oT: Yes.E: What drink do you want?J: ~w= -- e -- ~ J JC~.3 .h :  w ,T: I want to drink a warm coffee.E: warm coffee?E: Not a hot one?J: ,,~, v, = - -  e - - 'e3"oT: It is a hot coffee.One problem was that the system must alwaysgive some output, even when it cannot analyse theinput correcdy: in this environment failure togive some result is simply unacceptable.
Howev-er, this is difficult when the input contains anunknown word, especially when the source lan-guage is Japanese and the unknown word is trans-mitted as a kanji.
Our example (6) neverthelessshows how a cooperative user will make the mostof the output.
Here, the non-translation of tsukimae (fi\] ~ ) is compounded by its mis-translationas a prepositional object.
The first Japanese sen-tence said that I married two months ago.
But theEnglish correspondent imagines the untranslatedkanji might mean 'wives'!
(6) J: ~/,t-J:27J ~ E ~  L tooT: I married to 2 ~ ~-~\].E: are married to 2 what??
?.J: ~-~?6~ tc~ l .
fcoT: I married in this year June.E: now i understand.E: i thought you married 2 women.In the reverse direction, the problem is lessacute, since most Japanese users can at least readRoman characters, even if they do not understandthem (7): this led in this case to an interestingmetadialogue.
Again, the English user was cooper-ative, and rephrased what he wanted to say in away that the system could translate correcdy.
(7) E: can you give me a crash course injapanese?.J: c r a s h c o u r s e~f~'O~~oT: What is crash course?E: it means learn much in a very shorttime.Mistransladons were a major source of metadi-alogue, to be discussed below, though see particu-larly example (10).THE NATURE OF  THE D IALOGUESThere has been some interesting research recent-ly (at ATR in Osaka) into the nature of keyboarddialogues (Arita et aL 1987; Iida 1987) mainlyaimed at comparing telephone and keyboard conver-sions.
They have concluded that keyboard has thesame fundamental conversational features as tele-phone conversation, notwithstanding the differ-ences between written and spoken language.
Nomention is made of what we are calling here meta-dialogue, though it should be remembered that ourdialogues are quite different from those reportedby the ATR researchers in that we had a transla-tion system as an intermediary.
No comparableexperiment is known to us, so it is difficult tofind a yardstick against which to assess our find-ings.Regarding the subject matter of our dialogues,this was of a very general nature, often about thelocal situation (time, weather), the dialogue part-ner (name, marital status, interests) or aboutrecent news.
A lot of the dialogue actually con-cemed the system itself, or the conversation.
An159obvious example of this would be a request torephrase in the case of mistranslation, as we haveseen in (6) above, though not all users seemed tounderstand the necessity of this tactic (8).
(8) E: how does your sistem work please.J: ~.L~ ~: ?~?,~b~ r) ~-'~-A,oT: I don't understand a meaningof the sentence.E: how does your sistem work?Often, a user would seek clarification of a mis-or un-translated word as in (9), or (3) above.
(9) E: I could have riz in the dinner.J: r i z ~7 ~ : / :~-@~oT: Is riz French?E: May be.
I'm not sure.J: ~-(" 3",~oT: Is it rice?E: In my guess, you are right.J: ~ ~'9"oT: It is natural.E: What is natural?T: I understand French.J: r i z ~:~ 'C~oT: Riz is rice.The most interesting metadialogues howeveroccurred when users failed to distinguish citedwords - a problem linguists are familiar with -for example by quotation marks: these would thenbe re-translated, sometimes leading to furtherconfusion (10).0o) J l :  B~:?Ep~'~L.
"C  < ~ WoT: Please speak a Japaneseimpression.E1 : ichibana.J2: b~ ~ ",~ ~-A,oJ3: i c h i b a n a ~1~'~' ;~oT:What is ichibana?E2: i thought it means number one.J4: f~ ~- -~: ' ( -~oT:What is the first?E3: the translation to you wasincorrect.This example may need explanation.
First thetranslation of the Japanese question (J1) has beenmisunderstood: the translation should have been'Please give me your impressions of Japan', but theEnglish user (E-user) has understood Japanese tomean 'Japanese language'.
That is, E-user has under-stood J1 to be saying 'Please speak an impressiveJapanese word.'
Then E-user confused ichiban('number 1' or 'the first') and ikebana ('flowerarranging').
The word ichibana (El) does notexist in Japanese.
His explanation 'number one'was correctly translated (not shown here) asichiban.
But not realizing of course that the mean-ing of his first sentence (J1) was incorrectlyunderstood, the Japanese user (J-user) could notunderstand E1 (J2) and asked for its sense (J3).So E-user tried to explain the meaning of/?h/bana, which in fact was ichiban.
By theanswer, J-user has identified what E-user ment,but since J-user still did not realized that his firstsentence was incorrectly understood and hence J-user has understood E2 to be saying that some-thing was 'number 1', he tried to ask what was'number 1' (J4).But in the translation of this question, ichiban( - -~  ) was translated as 'the fLrsf.
At this point,it is not clear which comment E-user is referringto in E3, but anyway, not realizing what answerJ-user have expected and not knowing enoughJapanese to realize what has happened - i.e.
theconnection between 'number one' and 'the firsf - E-user gives up and changes the subject.
If E-userhad intended to speak ikebana and explained itsmeaning, J-user could have realized J1 had beenmisunderstood.
Because it is meaningless in a sen-tence saying someone's impression that somethingis ikebana.On the other hand, where the user knew a lit-de of the foreign language (typically the Japaneseuser knowing English rather than vice versa), sucha misunderstanding could be quickly dealt with(11).
(11) E: How is the weathere in Tokyo?J :we  a t h e r e i '~we a t h e rT: Is weathere weather?CONCLUSIONSThere are a number of things to be learnt fromthis experiment, even if it was not in fact set upto elicit information of this kind.
Clearly, typingerrors are a huge source of problems, so an envi-ronment which minimizes these is highly desir-able.
Two obvious features of such an environmentare fast screen echo, and delete and back-space keyswhich work in a predictable manner in relation towhat is seen on the screen.
For the correction oftyping errors, the system should have a spelling-160check function which works word-by-word asusers are typing in.
The main reasons for syntaxerrors are ellipsis and unknown words.
Therefore,the system should have a rapid syntax-check func-tion which can work before transmission or trans-lation and can indicate to users that there is a syn-tax error so that users can edit the input sentenceor reenter the correct sentence.
These are in them-selves not new ideas, of course (e.g.
Kay 1980 andothers).Conventions for citing forms not to be trans-law, d, especially in metadialogue, must be devel-oped, and the Machine Translation system must besensitive to these.
The system must be 'tuned' inother ways to make translations appropriate toconversation, in particular in the translation ofconversational fillers like I see and wakarimashita.Finally, it seems to be desirable that users betrained briefly, not only to learn these conven-tions, but also so that they understand the limitsof the system, and the kind of errors that get pro-duced, especially since these are rather differentfrom the errors occasionally produced by humantranslators or people conversing in a foreign lan-guage that hey know only partially.REFERENCESAMANO Shin-ya, Hiroyasu NOGAMI &Seiji MIIXE (1988).
A Step towards Telecommu-nication with Machine Interpreter.
Second Interna-tional Conference on Theoretical and Methodologi-cal Issues in Machine Translation of Natural Lan-guages, June 12-14, 1988 (CMU).NOGAMI Hiroyasu, Yumiko YOSHIMU-RA & Shin-ya AMANO (1988).
Parsing withlook-ahead in a real time on-line translation sys-tem.
TO be appeared inCOLING 88, Budapest.AMANO shin-ya, Kimihito TAKEDA,Koichi HASEBE & Hideki HIRAKAWA (1988).Experiment of Automatic Translation TypingPhone (in Japanese).
Information Processing Soci-ety of Japan (1988.3.16-18)TAKEDA Kimihito, Koichi HASEBE & Shin-ya AMANO (1988).
System Configuration ofAutomatic Translation Typing Phone (inJapanese).
Information Processing Society of Japan(1988.3.16-18)ASAHIOKA Yoshimi, Yumiko YOSHIMU-RA, Seiji MIIKE & Hiroyasu NOGAMI (1988).Analysis of the Translated Dialogue by AutomaticTranslation Typing Phone (in Japanese).
Informa-tion Processing Society of Japan (1988.3.16-18)ARITA Hidekazu, Kiyoshi KOGURE, IzumNOGAITO, Hiroyuki MAEDA & Hitoshi IIDA(1987).
Media-dependent conversation manners:Comparison of telephone and keyboard conversa-tions (in Japanese).
Information Processing Soci-ety of Japan 87-M (1987.5.22)IIDA Hitoshi (1987).
Distinctive featuresof conversations and inter-keyboard interpreta-tion.
Workshop on Natural Language DialogueInterpretation, November 27-28, 1987, AdvancedTelecommunications Research Institute (ATR),Osaka.AMANO Shin-ya (1986).
The ToshibaMachine Translation system.
Japan ComputerQuarterly 64 "Machine Translation - Threat orTool" (Japan Information Processing DevelopmentCenter, Tokyo), 32-35.AMANO Shin-ya, Hideki HIRAKAWA &Yoshinao TSUTSUMI (1987).
TAURAS: TheToshiba Machine Translation system.
MT MachineTranslation Summit, Manuscripts & Program,Tokyo: Japan Electronic Industry DevelopmentAssociation (JEIDA), 15-23.KAY Martin (1980).
The proper place ofmen and machines in language translation.
ReportCSL-80-11, Xerox-PARC, Palo Alto, CA.HAYASHI Ooki (kanshuu) (1982).
~ ~k: (~1982).
~lH~r~.KAWADA Tsutomu, Shin-ya AMANO,Ken-ichi MORI & Koji KODAMA (1979).Japanese word processor JW-10.
Compcon 79(Nineteenth IEEE Computer Society InternationalConference, Washington DC), 238-242.MORI Ken-ichi, Tsutomu KAWADA &Shin-ya AMANO (1983).
Japanese word proces-sor.
In T. KITAGAWA (Ed.)
Japan AnnualReviews in Electronics, Computers & Telecommu-nications Volume 7: Computer Sciences & Tech-nologies, Tokyo: Ohmsha, 119-128.APPENDIX A.Overall Performance Datasessions 78 timesutterances 1429 times (100%)18.3 time/sessionutterances that weresuccessfully translated 1289 times (90%)utterances that weremis-translated 140 times (10%)metadialogues 31 times0.4 time/session161APPENDIX B.Subject Matter in Utterancestotal utterancesgreeting and self introductionresponse signalsabout weatherabout imeothers1429 times (100%)470 times (33%)154 times (11%)92 times (6%)56 times (4%)657 times (46%)APPENDIX C.Type of Expressions in Metadialoguetotal metadialogues 31 timesrepetition of a part of partner'sutterances (e.g.
What is ichibana?)
22 times(English users' are 2 and Japanese users' are 20)telling typing errors or mistranslations(e.g.
Error in Translation.)
9 times(English users' are 6 and Japanese users' are 3)APPENDIX D. Distribution of Utterances(ia), (lb), (2) and so on are corresponding to examples in the text.
Thosenumbers are put in the area in which main utterances in the examples are involved.
::,,  i!iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii!iiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiill i i !
i?
: total 1429 utterancesI': 1289 utterances that were successfully translated: 140 utterances that were mis-~ranslated: 31 utterances that caused metadialoguesA: by typing errors (7times)B: by mistranslations (5times)C: by unknown words to the partner and so on (19times)162
