PARSING AND INTERPRETING COMPARATIVESMarmy RaynerSICSBox 1263, S-164 28 KISTASwedenAmelie BanksUPMAILBox 1205, S-750 02 UPPSALASwedenTel: +46 8 752 15 O0 Tel: +46 18 181051ABSTRACT 1.
INTRODUCTIONWe descr ibe  a fa i r l ycomprehensive handl ing of thesyntax  and  semant ics  ofcomparat ive constructions.
Theanalysis is largely based on thetheory developed by P inkham,but we advance arguments  tosupport  a different handl ing ofphrasa l  comparat ives  - inpar t i cu la r ,  we  use d i rec tin terpreta t ion  ins tead of C-ellipsis.
We .explain the reasonsfor  d iv id ing  comparat ivesentences into different categories,and for each category we give anexample of the correspondingMontague semantics.
The ideashave all been imp lementedwithin a large-scale grammar forSwedish.This paper is written with two distinctaudiences in mind.
On the practicalside, we try to present a cookbookwhich the natural language interfaceimp lementor  can ~use if he wishes toincorporate comparative constructionsinto his system's coverage.
This is, wetrust, interest ing in itself; a quickglance at Table 1 should be enough toshow that this construction is morecommon than is perhaps general lyreal ized.
Thus in addi t ion to theobvious more, less and as much as,used together with an adjective, adverbor determiner, we also include suchwords as same, before and after, usedin appropriate ways.
We also try togive a usable classif ication of thevar ious  k inds  of const ruct ionsgenerally lumped together under theb lanket  head ing  of "Comparat iveEllipsis".Examples of comparat ives1) John is taller than Mary.2) Few people run as fast as John.3) John bought more books than Mary.4) John was happier in New York than in London.5) John has more books than Mary has newspapers.6) John had this job before me.7) John was born in the same city as Mary.8) Mary had more friends than John thought.9) More men than women bought he book.10) Mary seems brighter than most of the pupils.Adjectival comparisonAdverbial comparison with "as"Determiner comparisonComparison on PPClausal comparison"Before" comparison"Same" comparison"S-operator" comparisonComplex comparative determiner"Simple" phrasal comparisonTable I49On the theoretical side, we want toreexamine  some fundamenta lquestions concerning the nature of thecomparat ive construction; we aregoing to argue that our practical workfairly strongly supports a hypothesisthat has already appeared in severalforms in the theoretical l iterature,namely that "comparative ellipsis" is asemantic rather than syntacticphenomenon.
We expand more onthis theme in section 2.
In section 3 wepresent our handling of clausalcomparison, which is a straightforwardimplementation f Pinkham's theory.The next two sections cover non-clausal comparison, and constitute themain part of the paper.
In section 4 weshow how Pinkham's predicatecopying analysis can be implementedwithin a Montague grammarframework so that duplication ofmaterial is not syntactic copying ofparts of the parse-tree but is instead adouble application of a higher levelfunction.
We demonstrate at lengthhow this method can be used to handlethree different kinds of ellipticconstruction, all of which presentproblems for the syntactic approach.
Insection 5 we describe our treatment ofthe base generated phrasalconstructions from section B.2.3 ofPinkham's thesis.
(We call these"simple" phrasal comparatives).
In thefinal section we summarize ourresults; in particular we  addressourselves to the question of justifyingour classification of comparatives intoseparate categories instead of providinga unified interpretation.The current paper is a shortenedversion of (Rayner & Banks 88) ("thefull paper"), which we will refer tofrom time to time.
This includesamong other things test examples andfull program listings of a logicgrammar based on the SNACK-85implementation, which covers allforms of comparison discussed here.2.
PREVIOUS WORKThe traditional viewpoint has been toexplain non-clausal comparatives bymeans of deletion rules; the firstdetailed account based on this idea was(Bresnan 73), wh ich  s t rong lyinfluenced most work in the areaduring the following ten years.Recently, however, other researchershave pointed out problems withBresnan's approach; a very thoroughand detailed criticism appears in(Pinkham 85) 1, which has been ourmain theoretical source.
Pinkhamgives examples of a wide range ofconstructions which are difficult orimpossible to explain in terms ofdeletion phenomena, and suggestsinstead an approach in which at leastsome comparative constructions arebase-generated phrasal  and theninterpreted using a rule which she calls"distributive copying".
The followingexample  2 shows how the schemeworks in practice.
Sentence la) receivesthe logical form lb):la) I invited more men than womenlb) I INVITED (MORE \[ql (ql men), q2(q2 women)\])1 Hereafter "Pinkham".2 From Pinkharn, p. !2350(The object of INV ITED is the basegenerated phrasal).
After distributivecopying, this becomes lc):lc) MORE I ql (INVITED ql men), q2(INVITED q2 women)\]This manoevre,  replacing syntacticdelet ion rules w i th  interpretat ivecopying operations, seems to us verypowerful, and (although we formulateit in a rather different way) is one ofthe central ideas in our own treatmentof comparatives.
We have in fact takenit even further than Pinkham, whokeeps the verb deletion rule of "C-ellipsis" to explain some comparativeconstructions: in the account presentedbelow in section 4, we get rid of thedeletion rules completely and use onlyinterpretative methods.In this context, it is interesting to lookat Levin's LFG-based work on s lu idngconst ruct ions  (Levin 82).
Lev inpresents a var iety of arguments tosupport her claim that sluicing is not ac-structure phenomenon (i.e.
note l l ipt ic  in nature) ,  but  ra therexplainable at f-structure level (i.e.
insome sense related to a semant iccopying operation).
The differencesbetween s luic ing and comparat iveellipsis are sufficiently great that thiscannot in itself be said to proveanyth ing,  but  it is none the lessind icat ive  of the way in whichl inguists are th ink ing about theseproblems.In SNACK-85, which uses a frameworkbased on that in (Pereira 83), weperform copying operations on "quant-trees", a level of structure which canloosely be compared with Chomskianlogical form or LFG's f-structures.Viewed in this light, we claim that ourtreatment of non-clausal comparison(which at first glance might  seemsomewhat ad hoc) is in fact fairly weU-re lated to current  tendencies intheoretical linguistics.3.
CLAUSAL COMPARATIVESMost authors are agreed that the case ofclausal comParison is the simplest, andfor this reason we tackle it first; despitethis, it will be seen that there are a fewtricky points.
Our analysis is heavilybased on P inkham's,  and virtual lyamounts to an implementation of thesecond section of her thesis; we start bysummarizing what we see as the mainideas in her treatment.The fundamental  notion in Pinkham'sanalysis is to assume that there is animp l i c i t  e lement  present  in acomparative clause, which is l inked tothe head of the comparison 1 in a waysimilar to that in which a trace or gapis l inked to its controller.
This "trace"a lways  contains a quant i f ier - l ikecomponent.
(We will adopt Pinkham'snotation and symbolize this as Q).
Itmay consist of just the Q on its own, orelse be an implicit NP composed of theQ together with other material fromthe head of the comparison.P inkham argues that  there areessent ia l ly  three cases; these areexemplified in sentences 2a) - 2c).
Inthe first of these, just the Q isextraposed; in the second, a Q togetherwith the CN books, taken from the1 We endeavour throughout this paper to keep ourterminology as close as possible to that used byPinkham.
The terms used are summarized inAppendix 1.51head more books.
If the head containsa comparative adjective, as in 2c), thenthe extra material, consisting of theadjective and the main noun from thehead, is obligatory.
For a justification,and an explanation of several apparentexceptions, we refer to Pinkham, p. 33 -40.2a) John bought more books thanMary bought (Q) records.2b) John bought more books thanMary could carry (Q books).2c) John bought a more expensivevase than Mary bought (a Qexpensive vase).A scheme of this kind can readily beimplemented using any of thestandard ways of handling traces.
Inour system, which is based onExtraposition Grammar (Pereira 83),we use the "extraposition list" to movethe material from the head to the placein the comparative clause where it isgoing to appear; this corresponds to useof the HOLD register in an ATN, or"slash categories" in  a GPSG-likeframework.Although this method appears to workwell in practice, thre is a theoreticalproblem arising from the possibility ofsentences with crossing extrapositions.We refer to the full paper for furtherdiscussion.4.
DIRECT INTERPRETATION OFNON-CLAUSAL COMPARISON4.1 Basic ideasOur first implementation (Banks 86)was based on the conventionalinterpretation of comparatives: allcomparatives are explicit or ellipticforms of clausal comparatives, makingthe analysis of comparison essentially asyntactic process.
In (Banks & Rayner87) we presented this in outline andthen described some problems we hadencountered, which eventually causedus to abandon the approach.
Briefly, itturned out that the exact formulationof the syntactic opying process was byno means stra ightforward:  thereappeared to be a strong parallel withthe well-known arguments against heanalogous point of view for co-ordination constructions.
(See e.g.
(Dowty et.
al.
82), p. 271).
As anexample, we presented sentence 3)3) Everyone spent more money inLondon than in New York.which is problematic for a reductionaccount.
We suggested instead that thesentence be  thought of as beingcomposed of the fo l low ingcomponents: the initial everyone, thecontrasted elements London and NewYork, and the duplicated part, whichcould be rendered (roughly) as is a Psuch that P spent an amount of moneyin where _.
In a Montague-grammar-like formalism, this can thenbe given the fol lowing semanticanalysis:52"Montagovian" analysis of comparative(spent(x,y,z) is to be read as "x spent amount y in the city z")than in New York1.
everyone2.
New York3.
London4.
spent m in5.
spent more in6.
spent more in London than in New Yorkeveryone spent more in London thanin New YorkTable 2.~.QVx: person(x)--)Q(x)~.QBz: \[z=New YorkAQ(z)\]~.QBz: \[z=LondonAQ(z)\]~.y~XzXx: spent(x,y,z)AP(y)XzXx3y: spent(x,y,z)ABy': spent(x,y',New York)Ay>y'Xx.~y: spent(x,y,London)ABy':spent(x,y',New York)Ay>y'Vx: person(x)~\[3y: spent(x,y, London)A3y': spent(x,y',New York)Ay>y'\]The key point is that the syntacticcopying of the deletion approach hasbeen replaced by a semantic operation,a double instantiation of a lambda-bound form.
The following accountsummar izes  how the idea isimplemented within the structure ofthe SNACK-85 system.Semantic interpretation in SNACK-85is performed by first converting theparse-tree to an intermediate form,which we call (following (Pereira 83)) aquant-tree.
This is then subjected torewriting rules before being convertedinto the final logical form.
Normally,these rewriting rules formalize so-called scoping transformations; here,we will also use them to describe thein terpreta t ion  of non-c lausa lcomparison.
The basic motivation isthe same, namely to remove rulesfrom the grammar which lack syntacticmotivation.We introduce four new kinds of nodesin addition to those defined in (Pereira83): we call these comparands ,comparative-objects, comparisons, andcompar i son-p laceho lders .
Theyinteract as follows.
(Stage 1) At the syntactic level, we viewthe comparative object as a constituentin its associated comparative AP; whenthe parse-tree is transformed into thequant-tree, the AP gets turned into acomparand node, in which there is acomparat ive -ob jec t  subnoderepresenting the comparative object.
(Stage 2)Rewriting rules then movethe comparat ive -ob jec t  out of thecomparand,  leaving behind aplaceholder.
This is a triple consistingof the compared predicate (theadjective, adverb or whatever), andtwo logical variables (the "linking"variables), which correspond to thelambda-bound variables y and ~ above.
(Stage 3) The "raised" comparat ive -object node is a 4-tuple.
It consists of53?
The two variables y and P (and isthus "linked" to the p laceholderthrough them- hence the name),?
The comparison type (more than,less than, same as etc.)?
The quant  subnode whichrepresents the comparand NP orPP.The rewriting rules move it upwardsuntil it finds a quant node that it can becompared against.
At the moment, theonly compatibil ity requirements arethat the quant  node and thecomparative-object 's quant subnodenot have incompatible case-markings.This could be improved upon; one waywould  be to def ine preferenceheuristics which gave higher priorityto comparisons between quant nodeswhose variables are of similar type.The result of merging the two nodes isa comparison ode, which is a 5-tupleconsisting of?
The comparative-object's quantnode?
The quant  node it has beenmerged with?
The comparison type?
The two "linking variables", yand PWhen the quant-tree is converted intological form, there should thus be onlycomparison nodes and placeholdernodes left, with the placeholders"below" the comparisons.
In the finalstage, the portion of the quant-treeunder  the compar ison node isdupl icated twice, and the l inkingvariables instantiated in each copy inthe manner described above.
So in the"inner" copy, P gets instantiated to a aform 2y:comp(y,y'), where comp is thetype of comparison and y and y' are thedegree variables; in the "outer" copy, Pis instantiated to the value of the innerform.In the next two subsections, we gofurther to show how a similar analysiscan be used to assign a correctsemantics to two other kinds ofcomparative construction without anyrecourse to C-ellipsis.4.2.
Comparatives with "s-operators"In this section, we are going toexamine comparative constructionslike those in 4a), 4b) and 4c).
Thesehave a long and honourable history inthe semantics literature; 4c) is a famousexample due to Russell.4a) Mary had more friends than Johnhad expected.4b) Most people paid more than Marysa/d.4c) John's yacht was longer than Ithought.In order tohandle xamples like thesewithin our framework, we need asyntactic representation which doesnot involve ellipsis.
Our solution is tointroduce a syntactic onstituent whichwe call an "s-operator": we define thisimplicit ly by saying that an "s-operator" and a sentential complementcombine to form a clause.
1 Thus theitalicized portions of the sentencesabove are deemed to be s-operators,and in each of them the s-operator's1 In a categorial grammar framework like HPSG(Pollard & Sag 88), we could simply identify an s-operator with a constituent of the form S/S-COMP.It is fairly straightforward to define s-operators inXG-grammar.54missing complement is viewed as akind of null pronoun.Although this move may in Englishseem syntactically quite unmotivated,there are other languages whereevidence can be found to support theclaim that these pronouns really exist.In Russian,  where comparat iveconstructions very closely follow theEnglish and Swedish patterns, they canoptionally appear in the surfacestructure as the pronoun ~ 1"0.
Thefollowing sentence illustrates this.OH K~H'I'I4,rl 60JII, LUe KHWr qeH ~ 3TOHe bought more books than I ~T0n~Ma~.thought.Semantically, the analysis of suchsentences is exactly parallel to that inthe preceding subsection.
Comparing4b) with 3), the "initial part" is mostpeople, and the "contrasted elements"are the s-operator Mary said and animplicit trivial s-operator which wecan write as (it is true that).
The"duplicated part" is the predicate is a Psuch that P paid amount of moneywhere .
We can sketch a"Montagovian" analysis similar to thatin table 2"Montagovian" analysis of s-operator comparative(paid(x,y) is to be read as "x paid y amount of money")1. most people2.
Mary said3.
(it is true tha04.
paid5.
paid more than Mary said6.
(it is true tha0 paid more than Mary said7.
most people paid more than Mary said~.Q: most0~x:person(x).Q)~.Q: said(m,Q)~.y~.~ Xx: paid(x,y),<P(y)~,x3y paid(x,y)ABy'said(m,paid(x,y')Ay>y')~.x3y paid(x,y)A3y'said(m,paid(x,y')Ay>y')most(~x:person(x),Xx: 3y: paid(x,y)A3y'said(m,paid(x,y')Ay>y')Table 3The implementation of this analysis interms of quant-tree rewriting rulesinvolves only a slight extension of themethod described in section 4.1 above.The reader is referred to the programcode in the full paper for the concretedetails.554.3.
"Parallel" phrasal comparativesComparative constructions of the typei l lustrated in 5a) have been the objectof cons iderab le  controversy.
Theorthodox position was that they were"parallel" constructions: 5a) wouldthus be a reduced form of 5b).5a) More women than men read'1-Iouse and Garden".5b) More women read "House andGarden" than men read "Houseand Garden".Pinkham, however, gives good reasonsfor supposing that this is not the case,and that the construction is in somesense base generated phrasal (p.121-123).
It will presumably not come as arevelation to hear that we agree withthis idea, though we express it in asomewhat different way.Our  in terpreta t ion  of P inkham'sanalysis recasts the more  ... than.
.
.construct ion as a special k ind ofdeterminer.
We introduce an extrarule for NP formation: in addition tothe normal NP --~ Det + CN, we alsohave NP --~ CompDet + CN + CN.
(Thedetails can be found in the full paper).This allows us as usual to give theconstituent structure wi thout  use ofellipsis, and then to interpret it using asuitable predicate-copying operation.Once again we i l lustrate wi th  aMontague-style example.
"Montagovian" analysis of "paraUel" phrasal comparative(reads(x,y) is to be read as "x habitually reads y")1. women2.
men3.
more4.
more women than men5.
"House and Garden"6. read "House and Garden"7. more women than men read"House and Garden"~:  woman(x)~x: man(x)XP~.QM~ more(P, Q, R)M~,: more(~x: women(x), Xx: men(x), R)~.x: x = "H & G"Xx: read(x,y) n y ="H & G"more( ~x: women(x), Xx: men(x),~x: read(x,"H & G"))Table 4It is in terest ing to compare ourt reatment  w i th  that suggested in(Keenan & Stavi 86) (p.282-284) forcomparat ive adjectival constructionsl ike that  in 6a); they  argueconvinc ing ly  that these are to beregarded as directly interpreted, ratherthan as "reduced forms" of sentenceslike 6b).
It seems to us that theirarguments can be adapted to supportthe analys is  of "parallel" phrasalsgiven above; so if we were to extendtheir example, we would have that 6b)in its turn was also to be interpreteddirectly,  rather than considered areduction of 6c).6a) More male than female studentspassed the exam.566b) More male students than femalestudents passed the exam.6c) More male students passed theexam than female students passedthe exam.5 "SIMPLE" PHRASALCOMPARATIVESWe finally turn our attention to a thirdtype of comparat ive  construct ion,which does not properly seem to fitinto any of the patterns given above.We start by giving in 7) - 9) someexamples of the kind of sentence wehave in mind.7) Mary seems brighter than mostpupils.8) He ran faster than the world record.
19) John needs a bigger 2 spanner thanthe No.
4.P inkham uses constructions like theseas her  key  examples  whendemonstrat ing the existence of base-generated  phrasa l  comparat ives .Looking for instance, at 9), we claimwith P inkham that the most naturalsolution is to treat bigger spanner thanthe No.
4 as a dosed constituent with asemantic interpretat ion which doesnot involve the rest of the sentence.It may not be obvious at first why thisshould be so, and we pause briefly toexamine the possible alternatives.Firstly, suppose that we tried to use areduct ion/predicate copying account.This would make 9) a form of 9a):9a) John needs a (big to extent X)spanner, X such that John needsthe (big to extent Y) No.
4. spanner,X>Y.implying that John needs the No.
4.This is clearly wrong; the "needs" isn'tcopied in any way, and in fact the scopeof any copying operat ion must  bel imited to the phrase bigger spannerthan the No.
4.
If we are absolutelybent on using copying, it appears to usthat the only way in which it can bedone is to treat 9) as derived from 9c)through 913)9b) John needs a spanner which isbigger than the No.
4.9c) John needs a spanner which is (bigto extent X), X such that the No.
4is (big to extent Y), X > Y.To be honest,  we can't completelydiscount his approach.
However, sinceit makes bigger than the No.
4 into aconstituent in the intermediate 9b), wethink it simpler to interpret he phrasestructure directly, as is i l lustrated inthe following Montagovian analysis.1pinkham's example 124a, p. 1362 We will treat "bigger" as though it were actually"more big" for the usual reasons.57Montagovian analysis of "simple" phrasal comparative(needs(x,y) to be read as "x needs something of which the predicate y holds")1.
John2.
needs3.
No.
44. big5.
spanner6.
the7.
more8.
more big than the No.
49. a bigger spanner than theNo.
410.
John needs a bigger spannerthan the No.
4Xx: x = JohnXx,y: needs(x,y)X.x: type_of(x, No.
4)Xx,y: big(x,y)Xx: spanner(x)XP~.Q: the(P, Q)XP~.QX.~.
: (X.x: By: P(x,y) AR(Q, Xz: By': P(z,y') (y > y'))X.x: 3y: big(x,y) A?
the(Xz: type_of(x, No.
4),kz: 3y': big(z,y') A (y > y'))Ix: spanner(x) ^3y: big(x,y) athe(Xz: type_of(x, No.
4),Xz: 3y': big(z,y') ^  (y > y'))needs(John,~:  spanner(x) ^3y: big(x,y) Athe(Xz: type__of(x, No.
4),kz: 3y': big(z,y') A (y > y'))TablesIt will be apparent hat bigger than theNo.
4 turns up as a constituent heretoo, and thus our solution is in a senseequivalent  with the alternate oneproposed above.
This is a strikingillustration of the difficulties that canattend any efforts to make rigorouscompar i sons  between d i f fe rentsyntactic-semantic analyses of natural-language constructions.6.
CONCLUSIONSWe have presented a method forsyntactic and semantic interpretationof comparat ive sentences.
This hasbeen done by dividing our materialinto three separate groups, each ofwhich are treated ifferently:Clausal comparatives (section 3),which are handled by extraposinga constituent containing a Q,fol lowing P inkham's  theoreticalanalysis.58?
Phrasal comparatives ( ection 4),treated by direct interpretationusing "predicate copying".?
"Simple" phrasals (section 5),handled by a different directinterpretation method.We do not claim that this classificationis the only way to explain the facts; aswe  have said above, it would bepossible to rewrite simple phrasalcomparatives into directly interpretedphrasal comparatives, and also torewrite directly interpreted phrasalcomparatives as clausal comparatives.We think, however, that thismanoevre would give us nothing inthe form of real gains; even though aunified solution might seem moreelegant, the syntactic transformationsneeded are more complicated than theuse of different categories.
Thus ourfirst argument against a unifiedapproach is the practical one: we  needdo less work as implementors if weadopt the classification described here.Despite this, we  suspect that manyreaders (especially those moretheoretically than practically inclined)would find it comforting to have somedirect evidence that supports our pointof view.
In this connection we thinkthat the following data from Swedishmay be of interest.Comparative constructions in Swedishare v i r tua l ly  ident ical  to thecorresponding ones in English.
Onesignificant difference, however, is thedistribution of the relative pronounvad ("what"); this can optionally beinserted after the comparative markerin some constructions, as shown in I0)and 11) I .10) Johan k6pte tier b6ckex /inJohn bought more books than(vad) Maria gjorde.
(what) Mary did.11) Johan bar ett dyrareJohn has a more expensivehus ~in (vad) jag har.house than (what) I have.Given the correspondences betweenclausal comparison and relativeclauses described in section 4, it is verytempting to account for the "vad" as arelat ive pronoun real iz ing thenormally null Q.
If we are prepared toaccept this, it then appears ignificantthat "vad" may not be used in mostphrasal comparatives, as shown in 12)and 13).
This would seem problematicfor a transformational ccount, but isquite natural if phrasal comparativesare treated by direct interpretation;there isn't any Q, so it can't be realizedas a "vad".14) \]ohan k6pte tier b6cker /inJohn bought more books than(*vad) Maria.
(*what) Mary.15) Flex kvinnor iin (*vad)More women than (*what)1/isex "H/int i Veckan".read "News of the World".m~nmenThere is, however, one exception tothe rule: "vad" may appear in the "s-1 This is also possible in some dialects of English.$9operator" constructions from section5.1 above, as shown in 16).16) Johan k6pte tier b6cker gnJohn bought more books than(vad) Maria troclde.
(what) Mary thought.We are not certain how to explainthis, and leave the reader to judge thefacts for himself1; but despite thisirregularity, we think the other datagives our theory a considerableamount of concrete backing.APPENDIX: TERMINOLOGYComparative Clause: the clauseintroduced by the comparison marker.Compared Element: the largestconstituent in the main or thecomparat ive clause, the leftmostelement of which is a comparisonmarker or the comparative quantifierQ.Comparison Marker: words like than,as, before, after.Head of the Comparison: refers to thecompared element in the main clause.Phrasal Comparative: a comparativecomplement which appears to be thereduced form of a comparative clause.This may be a remnant  of theapplication of Comparative Ellipsis to acomparative clause, or it may be basegenerated.Q: An (implicit or explicit) comparisonquantifier which is extraposed in theinterpretation f clausal comparatives.REFERENCES(Banks 86) Banks, A. Modifiers in NaturalLanguage, Bachelor's Thesis, UppsalaUniversity, 1986.
(Banks & Rayner 87) Banks, A. and Rayner, M.,Comparatives in Logic Grammars - TwoViewpoints, Proceedings of the 2ridInternational Workshop on Natural LanguageUnderstanding and Logic Programming, p.131 -137,1987(Bresnan 73) Bresnan, J. Syntax of theComparative Clause Construction i  English,Linguistic Inquiry 4, p. 275-343,1973(Dowty et al 82) D. Dowty, R.E.
Wall and S.Peters, introduction to Montague Semantics D.Reidel, 1982(Keenan & Stavi 86) Keenan, E.L and Stavi J.Natural Language Determiners, Linguistics andPhilosophy 9, p. 253-325(Levin 82) Levin, L., Sluicing: A LexicalInterpretation Procedure, in Bresnan, J.
(ed.
)The Mental Representation of GrammaticalRelations, MIT Press, 1982(Pinkham 85) Pinkham, J.
The Formation ofComparative Clauses in French and English,Garland Publishing Inc., New York, 1985(Pereira 83) Pereira, F.N.C.
Logic for NaturalLanguage Analysis, SKI Technical Note No 275,1983(Pollard & Sag 88) C. Pollard and I. Sag,Information-based Syntax and Senmantics, Vol.1, CSLI, 1988(Rayner & Banks 86) Rayner, M. and Banks, A.Temporal Relations and Logic Grammars,Proceedings of ECAI-86, VoL 2 p.9-14" 19861 One possibility is that this is a result of cognitivelimitations in the human sentence-processingmechanism, since an arbitrary amount of text canseparate a "vad" from the realization that theconstruction is s-operator ather than clausalcomparison.60
