ASPECTS OF  CLAUSE POL ITENESS IN JAPANESE:AN EXTENDED INQUIRY  SEMANTICS TREATMENTJohn A. Bateman*USC/Information Sciences Institute4676 Admiralty Way, Suite 1001Marina del Rey, CA 90292 U.S.A.(e-mail: bateman@va=a.isi.edu)Abst rac tThe inquiry semantics approach of the Nigel compu-tational systemic grammar of English has proved capa-ble of revealing distinctions within propositional con-tent that the text planning process needs to control inorder for adequate text to be generated.
An extensionto the chooser and inquiry framework motiwLted by aJapanese clause generator capable of expressing levelsof politeness makes this facility available for revealingthe distinctions necessary among interpersonal, socialmeanings also.
This paper shows why the previousinquL'y framework wu incapable of the klnd of se-mantic control Japanese politeness requires and howthe implemented xtenslon achieves that control.
Anexample is given of the generation of a sentence thatis appropriately polite for its context of use and someimplications for future work are suggested.1 In t roduct ion  - i nqu i ry  se-mant ics?
A crucial task in text generation is to be able to con-trol linguktic resources o as to make what is gen-erated conform to what is to be expre~ed.
In thecomputational systemic-functional grammar (SFG)'l~gel' (Mann, 1985; Mztthleseen, 1985; Mann and~/~atthlessen, 1985), this task is the responslbility ofthe grammar's inquirv memardice.
Nlgel follows gen-eral systemic-functlonni li guistics (SFL) practice inpresenting grammar as a resource for expressing mean-ings; meanings are realized by a network of interlock-ing options and ps_,-ticular grammatical forms are ar-rived at by making choices In this network.
Gener-ating appropriate text is then a problem of makingthe chokes in such a way that the distinct needs ofindividual texts to be expressed are satisfied.
This is*Thk research was supported by a post-doctoral re-search fellowship from the Japan Society for the Promotionof Science (Tokyo) and the Royal Society (London), andwas principally carried out at the Nagao Laboratory of theDepartment of Electrical Engineering, Kyoto University.achieved by means of choice experts, or ?hooserl, thatcollectively ensure that the choices made will be thoseappropriate for any particular text need.
Each choicepoint in the grammar network has associated with it achooserwhose r sponslbiHty is to interrogate he textneed in respect of just those aspects of meaning nec-essary for determining the appropriate option to take.These choosers are formalized as decision trees whosenodes consist of basic knowledge base interrogationprimitives called inqu/r/es.Each aspect of meaning to be expressed that the~ a r  needs to know about is made a~cesslble tothe choosers by means of a single inquiry whose func-tion le to determ;Y,e where any particular meaning tobe expressed stands on that aspect.
For example,should the gr=mm~r need to know whether the textneed was for the expression of a unitary object (say, allon) rather than a set object (lions), then at the appro-priate choke points in the grammar choosers would ap-peal to the inquiry named i~,fultlplleltyQ to determinethe text need.
When fully specified, inquiries have twoforms, an informal English gloss representing the func-tion of the inquh'y in terms of the theory of meaningadopted, and an implementation, currently in Lisp, ofan actual interrogatlon f a knowledge base.
Typically,constructing an inquiry proceeds first by means of suc-cees|ve approximations in informal terms, glossed inEnglish, followed by an encoding of the understandingachieved of the semantic distinction at issue.This inquiry semantics approach as been very suc-cessful in the l~gel grammar of English; the grammarnow has a very wide coverage all under inquiry con-trol.
The type of coverage has, however, been limitedprimarily to what in SFL terms is called the ideationalcomponent of meaning (Hall\]day, 1985).
This is thecomponent concerned with expressing our represen-tation of the world in terms of propositional contentand logical organization.
It is natural, therefore, thatthe inquiry approach should be successful in this do-main since this is typically the kind of informationthat is stored in the knowledge base and so is read-ily retrievable.
Another SFL component of meaning,however, is the interpersonal.
This aspect concerns147the expression ofsocial relationships, an area that willbecome increasingly important as more natural inter-actions between people and machines are attempted.Although the N\]gel grammar does contain a few in-quiries that are termed interpersonal, there has notbeen enough work here really to determine whetherthe inquiry framework is going to provide the tooknecessary for capturing the kind of meaning this in-volves.If the inquiry framework can be used in thk areaalso, then we can use it to investigate the knowledgebase distinctions that will need to be represented inorder to control interpersonal grammatical resources.This is a methodology that has already been appliedwith great success to ideational meaning in the Nlgelproject.
There, projecting through the inquiry inter-face from the grammar on to context has allowed forthe construction of a domain independent knowledgeorganization hierarchy called the upper structure (e.g.Moore and Arens, 1985).
Since inquiries rely uponspecific semantic distinctions to control the grammat-ical choices for which they are responsible, the for-mulation of a chooser's inquiries amounts to a con-straiut on the organization and content of the knowl-edge base and text planning that needs to be doneof the following form: if the ling~stic distinction forwhich the present chooser is responsible is to be avail-able as a resource for the text planner to exploit, thenthat text planner and the knowledge base have at leastto support he semantic distinctions identified by theinquiries that constitute that chooser.Thus, the semantic distinctions revealed to be nec-essary for the implementation of the inquiries that con-trol ideational choices have guided the construction ofthe upper structure.
To extend the kind of organiza-tional resource the upper structure provides into theinterpersonal arena would therefore be very beneficialfor our understanding of what needs to be included inthe interpersonal rea of the knowledge base and thetext planning process and so would promise to improvethe range and quality of the texts we can generate.2 A new domain:  The ex-pression of  pol i teness inJapanese clausesAs part of a proposed text generation project inJapanese at Kyoto University, some fragments of asystemlc-functlonal grammar of Japanese have beenconstructed (Bateman, 1985; Bateman et aL, 1987).In Japanese discourse the grammatical expression ofvarious interpersonal relationships i quite common.Gaining control of these resources was therefore anideal way to test further the applicability ofthe inquirysemantics approach in a domain which was clearly notideationalThe particular area of interpersonal meaning exam-ined here ls that concerned with the expression of ap-propriate degrees of humility and respect in referencesto one's own actions, to those of one's audience, andto those of third parties.
Although the general rule ofbeing humble about one's own actions and respectfulabout those of others is complicated by a number offactors, even thk simplest case presents problems asfar as controlling the grammar is concerned.
In thissection, I will briefly describe some of the forms in-voived and, in the next, how these create problems forthe inquiry and chooser framework as used in l~geLA variety of clause forms are regularly employed inJapanese for the expression of interpersonal meaningsrelated to 'politeness'.
For example, the 'demotion'of the process information to a nominal-like form pre-ceded by a normal nominal honorific prefix (e.g.
o, asin o-e\]~: 'honorable' tea) supported by an auxiliaryverb such as Juru, 'to do', or naru, 'to become', of-ten explicitly expresses the relative social statuses ofthe participants involved and the fact of those partici-pants' acknowledgment of hose statuses.
This we cansee in,o-VERB suru humble referral todo seif's actiono-VERB- n/ naru respectful referralbecomes to action of othero-VERB dssu more distant respect?
be for action of otherAnother type of form involves combinations of mor-phemes that conventionall~, represent distinctive waysof being polite.
Here, there are a number of differentinterpersonal speech act types that may be performed.For example, both the expression of gratitude for fa~yore received and the expression of the ~v/nO of favorsvirtually obligatory in normal discourse; this isachieved by appending one of the many verbs express-ing 'to give/receive' to the process performed.
Theseverbs are highly sensitive to relative social positionsand the perspective taken on the action performed(e.g.
Kuno and Kaburaki, 1977; Inoue, 1979) and thisaspect of their meaning is carried over for the expres-sion of favors done or perceived.
1 Typical combina~tions also express po\]ite ways of seeking permission foractions; one here modifies the action to be performedby means of the morphemes for causation/allowing,receiving a favor, wizhlng for, and thinking: a roughliteral gloss of this form would be along the lines of 'Ithink I want to humbly receive from you your allowingme to do X'.Thus, the following clause forms are also commonlyrequired in normal discourse:lThus, for verbs corresponding tothe English 'give' and'receive', there are seven Japanese verbs in common usageand these differ in most part according to the relative socialpositions of the participants in the giving.148VERB-giving doing a 'favor':respectfully or humblyVERB-recelving receiving a 'favor':respectfully or humbly\[VERB-cause-receive-wish\]-t hinkdeferential seekingof permissionThis by no means exhausts the range of formo thatare relevant o discussions of politeness, respect, andhumility in present-day Japanese, but it will be suf-ficient as an indication of the kinds of structures andmeanings addressed within the present grammar, s Itshould also be noted that there are different 'dimen-sions' of politeness involved in the use of these forms;for example the clauseyoku kite- kureta- newell come favor to speaker tagwhich means 'thanks for coming' is in the familiar levelof speech form, i.e.
it could only be used betweenpeople who are on familiar terms.
It is nevertheless8Jill necessary for the favor being done to be explic-itly acknowledged; not expressing it would result in aclause that would often be inappropriate.
The presentgrammar also treats the range of distinctions that arisealong this 'famlliar'/'polite' l vels of speech dimensionbut this will not be of immediate concern here.The differences in meaning that these alternativepoliteness-related forms represent need to be madeavailable to a text generation system.
Thls may bedone by offering a set of grammatical resources thatserves to express interpersonal knowledge about theinteractive situation.
As has been the case in the sys-temic grammar approach employed in Nigel generally,it is desirable to factor the knowledge and meaningsto be expressed in terms of a structured set of alter-natives that may be selected from straightforwardly;for ideational meanings this is provided by the upperstructure.
The internal organization of the systemicgrammar then takes care of the construction of lin-guistic structures appropriate to those meanings.
Nowwe want to be able to do the same with the linguisticstructures described here.
Information which will needto be held in appropriately constructed speaker andhearer models should be factored according to the in-quirles that are necessary for driving the grammaticaldistinctions concerned.
A problem arises here, how-ever, in that it is not possible to state within N\]gel'sgrammar and chooser framework that the alternativegrammatical forms available for the expression of po-2A very good introduction and summary of the rangeof meanings and forms devoted to aspects of politeness inJapanese is given in Migutani and Misutani (1987).liteness are alternatives at all.
The next section ex-plains why this is so.3 Prob lems wi th  the exist ingformal izat ion of chooser-g rammar  interact ionThe principle problem encountered with controllingthe deployment of structures such as those introducedin the previous ection by means of a chooser mecha-nism k that, formerly, all chooser decisions have beenlocal.
Each chooser determines which grammaticalfeature is to be selected as appropriate for the con-text of use from a single point of minimal grammat-ical alternation.
For example, the grammatical aVa-tern that presents the minimal grammatical alterna-tion in Japanese between having a constituent expressa circumstance of location, and not having such a con-stituent, has a chooser associated with it which inter-rogates the knowledge base and text plan by means ofits inquiries in order to see which of the two alterna-tives is applicable in the case at hand.
If a locationis to be expressed a grammatical ?eature is selectedthat entails the insertion of a constituent character-ized functionally as a location; if there is no locationto be expressed than a feature which does not havesuch an entailment is selected.
This selection betweenthe alternative grammatical choices, or features, thatare offered by a sinOle grammatical system is the onlyinfluence that the chooser of that system is permittedto have on the generation process.
Thus, in the lo-cation case, the effects of the chooser esponsible forinsertion or not of a location constituent are entirelylocal to the portion of the generation process delimitedby the location system of the grammar.With the politeness forms we seem to be faced againwlth a set of alternative meanings concerning level andtype of politeness to be expressed.
However, the prob-lem as far as the previously implemented view of thepossible effects of choosers is concerned is that thesealternatives correspond to no single points of grammat-ical alternation.
For example, if the process of reading(yomu) is to be expressed but we want to make a se-lection of politeness-related meaning between a simplerespectful reference to another's actions and a moredistanced, indirect and reserved respectful reference,then the choice of appropriate forrn~ for that processis betweeno- vomi nl naruHONORIFIC reading CASE becomingando- Voyr6 desuHONORIFIC reading COPULA-be149Now, while the distinction in meaning may be cap-tured by a simple scale of the 'directness' of the sen-tence that is appropriate for the particular interactivesituation in which it is to be used, there is no gram-matical system in the grammar of Japanese that offersa direct choice between these two clause structures.The former structure is similar to the typical use ofthe verb 'become' as in Z-hi naru, 'to become X'; thelatter is similar to clauses such as X deau, 'it is X'.They are not normally, e.g.
in contexts not involvingthis particular contrast of politeness, in grammaticalcontrast.The distinction is, thenl in the use.
and meaning ofthe structures rather than in their grammatical con-struction.
Indeed, such distinctions may often cross-cut the distinctions that are made in the grammar;this is simply to accept that the semantic and prag-matic distinctions that a language draws need not bematched one-for-one by corresponding minimal pointsof grammatical lternation.
The levels of coding aredistinct and incorporate distinct aspects of the mean-ing and construction of the linguistic units involved.It is not then possible to associate a 'politeness'chooser with a grammatical system as is done withthe choosers for ideational meanings because there isno grammatical system of 'politeness' to which it maybe attached.
A simple choice between minimal alter-natives of politeness can result in radically differentgrammatlcal structures that differ by virtue of manyfeatures.
This means that politeness of this kind can-not be made available as a controllable xpressive re-source for a text planner within the chooser frameworkas it is implemented within the Nigel project.4 An implemented solutionIn order to meet this problem and to allow full controlof politeness phenomena, the following extension wasimplemented within the context of the computationalsystemic grammar framework supported at Kyoto.The chooser framework is maintained as a deci-sion tree that selects between minimal points of se-mantic alternation.
However, it is no longer the casethat this needs to be held in a one-to-one correspon-dence with the minimal alternations that the gram-mar network represents.
The possibility of distinctpatterns of organization at the two levels, as wouldbe claimed by systemic linguistics proper, is thereforecaptured.
Accordingly, any chooser is permitted tomake any number of selections of grammatical featuresfrom anywhere in the grammatical network.
Choosersare thereby permitted to take on more of the organi-zational work required uring text planning.This extension made it possible to construct achooser decision tree that interrogates the text needconcerning precisely those distinctions in meaning re-quired to ascertain which level and form of politenessto employ.
The inquiries of this decision tree are freeto ask all the questions related to the aspects of thesocial relationships of the participants in the speechsituation that are necessary without being concernedabout where in the grammatical network the conse-quences of those questions will be felt.
This makesthat reasoning available in a modular and easily com-prehensible form.
The result of any particular paththrough the decision tree is a set of grammatical fea-tures that the grammatical product being generatedas a whole must bear.
This can therefore call for verydifferent structural results to be selected which differby many grammatical features drawn from many dis-tinct grammatical points of alternation?
The presentpoliteness 'chooser', or decision tree, has around 15decision points where a distinct inquiry needs to beput to the knowledge base.
These \]nqulrles are still atthe stage of informal approximation.For example, after traversal of the decision tree hasalready established a number of important facts con-cerning the text need, including that the actor is thehearer, that the situation is not one classifiable as for-many 'o/~clal', that there is considerable social 'dis-tance' between the speaker and hearer, among others,the simple semantic distinction glossable in English asIs the subject-matter o/ the procssa ~uchthat additional reserve should be ahownfis drawn.
If the text need is classifiable as requir-ing a yes-response to this inquiry then the gram-matlcal features: identi/ying, intensive, and speeial-frammalical-pla?ing are constrained to appear.
Ifa no-classification is possible, then the grammaticalfeatures: becomlng-attribute, intensive, and special-grammatical-placing appear.
The former set results inclauses with a functional structure of the form:e-  VERB dssuHONORIFIC X COPULA-bewhich, as we have seen, expresses additional distancebetween the action and its performance as required.The latter set is sufficient o constrain the structureproduced to be of the form:o- VERB ni naruHONORIFIC X CASE becomingwhich is the less indirect expression of respect.By way of contrast, the portion of the 'politeness'chooser that is concerned with the expression of hu-mility, rather than respect, is shown in figure 1.Formerly, any such decision tree would only havebeen able to call for the appearance of a single gram-matlcal feature; here any number of features may beselected (as indicated by the '++'  operator in figure1) during the decision tree's traversaL Modelling thekind of non-local organization i herent in the expres-sion of politeness would therefore have required nu-merous decision trees split according to the grammat-150IS the act ion independent Of otJ lerS, the  audience In  par t i cu la r?I s  the  process o f  the  k ind  that  ?s?~e?t?l l ex tcat  verb ex is ts  thatem~'esses  huld 11 ty?
*+ post LI ~-SOCl al -p l  1?t ngfavm,trs**  see?~i a l -  | exl  cai -p l  act n 9post t t  v~ sot1 ?1 -p i  a.:t ngVould the performance of  the fwocessob l igate  the hearer In  any va)~IS the process of  the k ind  that  ?
sp?~t?1lex tca l  verb ex is ts  that  e~resses hmM14t~t~ spect ?
l - l ex4ca I -p lac ln9  ~ pos l t |ve -soc~?
l -p l ?
c tngpOSl t i  ve- soot al ?p l  ?Cl ng**  v~ shfulnessfavoursmodl f led -  ~.-~sscause modt f l  ed-W~cess81-9rmtt  ca1 -p i  act~gIS there ?
reas(m for  e )q) l l c l t l y  lak tngc lear  COnsideration Of the o thers  wishes?
regard ing the process, such as tn  seekingperldsslon fo r  an act4on ~hlch way benef i tthe actor  as ma=h its more than t t  does the hearer'?
\-** { the  features  for:.~IE~8 1"~)Fig-ure 1: The humility portion of the politeness chooserical org-~nization.
This subordinates the semantic or-ganizatlon to the grammatical organization and nec-essar;\]y obscures the unity of the politeness reasoningprocess.
By allowing the two levels of gray,mar andsemantics their own, not necessarily isomorphic, di-mensions of organization it \]s possible to express theunity and coherence of patterns at either level and tocapture the relationship between those levels.5 Example of the genera-t ion of appropriately politeclausesIn this section, the generation of an actual utter-ance exhibiting complex attributes of politeness i il-lustrated.
The utterance is drawn from a corpus oftelephone conversations concerning hotel reservations.The traces given are those actually produced by thecurrently implemented Japanese systemic grammarprogram that is written In Symbolic?
Common Lispand runs upon a Symbolics 3600 Y.~p Machine.The context for the utterance is as follows.
After anegotiation ofprecisely where, when, and how long thecustomer is to stay, the person responsible for hotelbooking states that he will send the confirmation ofthe reservation to the customer 'today'.
It is worthnoting that the 'direct' translation of thle statementin terms of its ideational content (perhaps glossableas a very neutral I wall!
send it today), such as mightbe handled by current machine translation systems,would be quite inappropriate in a genuine interactivesituation such as the one described.
What was actuallysaid was of the following form:kVou A~sou saaete, itadaki, tai to omoim~utoday send do-canes receive wish thinkforward humblymight I be permitted to send it today?During generation the grammar causes the politenessreasoning chooser network to be entered; this performsthe classifications shown in figure 2, the humility sec-tion of thk reasoning may be followed through in figure1 also.The ~-a~nmatical features constrained to appear inthis case, i.e.
~sh/uinesa, \[avoura, cause, etc., thenresult in particular predetermined paths being takenthrough the grammar network.
For example, figure3 shows when the grammatlcal system responsiblefor the construction of the functional structure con-cerned wlth the expression of causallty is entered, sS a number of experimental extens Jo~ over  the corn-151ENTERED SO CI AL -P  LACING-REQU I REM ENTS;SY  STEMCHOOSER: Inqu i r ing  I s  t t  poss ib le  f.or the  -~peaker to  Ident i fy  ~dth theac tor  of.
the  process SENDING (PROCESS)?ENVIRONHENT RESPONSE: YESCHOOSER: t nqut r tng  Does the re1 art  onsht p (e .
g. one o?
great  sot1 ald is tance)  bergen  the cur rent  speaker and the hearerrequt re  the expresst  on oP specta l  socta l  post t l  ont ngtnf.ormaMon dur ing  the  statement of" SENDING (PROCESS)?ENVZRONHENT RESPONSE= YESCHOOSER: presel  ect t  ng f.eature HUHBI~NGCHOOSER: HUMIL ITY -REASONIN~CHOOSER: I nqut rd ng I s  the ac t l  on SENDING (PROCESS) tndependent o f  others ,ENVI RONHENT RESPON~CHOOSER: t nqut H ngENVIRONHENT RESPON~CHOOSER: t nqut H ngENVIRONHENT RESPONSE:CHOOSER: choostngCHOOSER: - I nqut rd ngENVZRONHENT RESPON~CHOOSEP- prese lec t tng  feature?
CHOOSER: prese lec t t  ng featureCHOOSER: prese lecM ng f.eaturethe audtence t n par t |  cu la r?NOWould the performance of.
the  process SENDING (PROCESS)ob l l  gate the hearer, tn  any way?
(e.  g. to  car ry  fo rso?~fteo .
??
)NOI s  the  process SENDING (PROCESS) oF the ktnd that  aspectal  lex tca l  verb exts ts  that  expresses huadl t ty?NOPOSZI~VE-SOCIN.-PLACZ NGI s  there  a reason / 'or  exp l i c i t l y  maktng c learcons iderat ion  o f  the  o ther ' s  wishes regard ing theprocess SENDING (PROCESS).
such as I n seekt ng petrol sst onfo r  an ac t ion  ~ht ch may benef t t  the ac tor  as much asmore than t t  does the hearer?YESVI StFIJLRESSFAVOURSHOOIFIED-PROCESSCHOOSER: prese lec t t  ng feature  CAUSECHOOSER: prese le~t t  ng feature  HOOTFIED-PRO(TcSSCHOOSER: preselec%t ng Feature SPECIN.-GRNqHAT~CAL-PLACINGSELECTED FEATURE is POSITIVE-SOCIAL-PLACINGFigure 2: Trace of the 8rammar's poHteneu reasoningENTERED MOOIF IED-PROCESS-TYPE-SY-S~ P.M RECURSIVELYPRESELECTIONS OVERRIDING: =;electing feature CAUSE, .SELECTED FEATURE is CAUSE~J;LZZEI~ tnser t tngREALIZER: conf laM ngREN~ZER: pre.sel ec t t  ngREALZZER: prese lec t l  figREN.ZZER: or'dent ng~ENTERED MODIF IED-EXPERIENCE-SYS/EM RECURSIVELYCHOOSER: t nqut H ng I= th t  = use o f  the  process SENDING (PROCESS) rood1 f tedfu r ther  t n some way?ENVZRONHENT RESPONS~ NOCHOOSER: se lec?tng  feature  CORE-PROCESSSELECTED FEATURE is CORE-PROCESSREN.IZ'F.~ prese lec t tng  PROCE~ for  SIMPLE-PROCESSINITJ\[ATORINI~ATOR and AGENT.
2PROCESS For COPPL~-PROCESSPROCESS fo r  CAUSATIVEAGENT.
2 be fore  AGENT.
1FiKure 3: ~raversal of the causaCivity region of the grammar152This grammatical system offer two alternative selec-tlous of feature: one which constrains the structuregenerated to be an expression of causation and onewhich does not.
Here, since the grammatical featurecause has been constrained to appear by the polite-ness chooser, no further reasoning needs to be doneat this point and the construction of the appropriatestructure may proceed irectly (via excution of the re-alization etatemerds a sociated wlth the cause feature,which call for a variety of operations to be performedon functionally-labelled constituents such as AGENT,PROCESS, etc.
).Similarly prsssiscted grammatical decisions aremade for each of the other regions of the grammarresponsible for creating the structure required to ex-press the politeness need as determined during polite-ness reasoning.
Thls serves to build the structure ofthe example sentence as an appropriate realization ofthe distinctions in politeness that were ascertained tobe necessary by the politeness chooser inquiries.6 Implications for furtherworkIt has been shown how a straightforward extension ofthe chooser and inquiry framework employed withinthe Nigel grammar permits its application to thecontrol of the resources for expre~ing politeness inJapanese.
In addition to the choice of humble andrespectful forms of expression illustrated here, thkmechanism has been used in one current version ofthe grammar to support he selection of appropriateverbs of 'giving' and their combinations with otherprocesses for the expression of favors done and con-slderation for other's actions, the selection of the par-ticipants or circumstances in the clause that are tobe made 'thematic', and the selection of appropriatelevels of speech (familiar, polite, deferential) across avariety of grammatical forms.The flexibility that this approach offers for cap-turing the semantic distinctions involved in interper-sonal meanings is allowing us to apply to interper-sonal knowledge the technique that was adopted forideational meanings ofdetermining the knowledge thatneeds to be maintained for satisfactory control of theresources of the grammar.
An examination of how theinquiries informally glossed here may be implementedwith respect o an actual knowledge base significantlyconstrains the types of constructs and their interre-laticnships that that knowledge base will be requiredto support.
Thus notions of relative social position,obligatlons owed, favors done, social situation types,putational systemic framework implemented in Nigel ap-pear in this trace, e.g.
the entering of granunatical s/stems'recursively' and the insertion of multiple functions of thesame type, as in AGENT.1 and AGENT.2.
These are be-yond the scope of this paper however; their detail may befound in Bateman et a/.
(1987).consequences of actions upon other people, and oth-ers that adequate inquiries have been found to relyupon are isolated in a linguistically-motivated an  con-strained manner for incorporation i the interpersonalcomponent of any knowledge base that is intended tosupport Japanese text generation.
It is to be expectedthat similar results may be found with respect o En-gllsh also and so the identification of the interpersonalconstructs necessary for knowledge bases for Englishtext generation is now a clear priority.A more general application of the extension to theinquiry semantics approach illustrated here is that itopens up the possibility of using the chooser and in-quiry framework to capture the selection of grammat-ical forms according to the uses that are to be made ofthose forms, without imposing the grammar's organi-zation upon the decision trees that control that selec-tion.
Since this non-isomorphism between distinctionsthat are to be drawn between uses and the distinctionsthat axe maintained in the grammar is as widespreadacross English as it is across Japanese, it is to be ex-pected that the mechanism proposed here could findwlde application.
However, further experimentationinto the mechanism's utility and appropriateness as arepresentation f what is involved in areas of languageuse where this occurs needs to be undertaken.AcknowledgmentsMany thanks are due to Professors Makoto Nagaoand Jun-ichl Tsujii, all the members of the Nag~o lab-oratory, and to the staff and students of the KyotoJapanese School for attempting to improve my under-standing of the Japanese language and its situated use.References\[I\] Batsman, J.A.
(1985) 'An initial fragment of acomputational systen~c grammar "of Japanese';Kyoto University, Dept.
of Electrical Engineer-ing.\[2\] Bateman, J.A., Kikul,G., Tabuchi~.
(1987) 'De-signing a computational systemic grammar ofJapanese for text generation: a progress report';Kyoto University, Dept.
of Electrical Engineering.\[sl Benson, J/)., Greaves, W.S.
(eds.
)(1985) Sys-temic Perspect ives on DlecouFeez VolumeI ;  Selected Theoret ica l  Papers  f rom the9th In ternat iona l  Systemic Workshop, NewJersey, Ablex.\[41 Hailiday,l~d~A.K.
(1985) An  in t roduct ion  tofunct ional  g rammar ;  London: Edward Arnold.\[5\] Inoue,K.
(1979) ' "Empathy and Syntax m re-exmnined: A case study from the verbs of giv-ing in Japanese'.
The 15th.
Annual 1~feeting o\[ theChicago Linguiatics Society, pp149-159.153\[6\] Kuno,S., Kaburaki~E.
(1977) 'Empathy and Syn-tax'.
Linguisfic /nqu/ry, 8, pp627-672.\[7\] Mann,W.C.
(1985) 'An introduction to the Nigeltext generation gr2rnm~r', in Benson, J.D.
andGreaves, W.S.
(eds.)(op.cit.
), pp84-95.\[8\] Mann,W.C., Matthieesen, C.I~I.M.
(1985) 'Ademonstration f the N\]gel text generation com-puter program', in Benson, J.D.
and Greaves,W.S.
(eds.)(op.cit.
), pp50-83.\[9\] Matthieuen,C.M.I.M.. (1985) 'The systemicframework \]n text generation', in Benson, J.D.and Greaves, W.S.
(eds.)(op.rAt.
), pp96-118.\[10\] M~utani,O.
and ~r=utani.~.
(19S7) o= ~o 6epolite in Japaneae.
Tokyo: The Japan Times, Ltd.\[11\] Moore,J..a.rens, Y.
(1985) 'A Hierarchy for Enti-ties'; USC/Informatlon Sciences Institute, work-ing draft ms.154
