DISCOURSE DEIXIS: REFERENCE TO DISCOURSE SEGMENTSBonnie Lynn WebberDepartment ofComputer & Information ScienceUniversity of PennsylvaniaPhiladelphia PA 19104-6389ABSTRACTComputational approaches todiscourse understandinghave a two-part goal: (1) to identify those aspects ofdiscourse understanding that require process-basedaccounts, andS(2) to characterize the processes and datastructures they involve.
To date, in the area ofreference, process-hased ac.omnts have been developedfor subsequent reference via anaphoric pronouns andreference via definite descriptors.
In this paper, Ipropose and argue for a process-based account ofsubsequent reference via deiedc expressions.
Asignificant feature of this account is that it attributesdistinct mental reality to units of text often calleddiscourse segments, a reality that is distinct fromthat of the entities deem therein.1.
INTRODUCTIONThere seem to be at least wo constructs that mostcurrent theories of discourse understanding haveadopted in at least some form.
The In'st is thediscourse ntity, first introduced by LauriKarmunen in 1976 (under the name "discoursereferent") \[9\] and employed (under various othernames) by many researchers, including myself \[18\].The other is the discourse segment.Discourse ntities provide these theories with auniform way of explaining what it is that nounphrases (NP) and pronouns in a discourse refer to.Some NPs evoke a new discourse ntity in thelistener's evolving model of the discourse (which Ihave called simply a discourse model), others referto ones that are already there.
Such entities maycorrespond to something in the outside world, butthey do not have to.
To avoid confusion with a senseof "referring in the outside world", I will use theterms referm here, meaning "refer in a model", andreferentm, for the entity in the model picked outby the linguistic expression.The basic features of a discourse ntity are that (a) itis a constant within the current discourse model andthat Co) one can attribute to it, inter alia, propertiesand relationships with other entities.
(It is for thisreason that Bill Woods once called them "conceptualcoat hooks".)
In some theories, different parts of thediscourse model (often called spaces) may representdiffeaent modalities, including hypothetical contexts,quantified contexts, the belief contexts of differentagents, etc.
Depending on what space is currentlybeing described, the same NP or pronoun may evokeand/or eferm to very different discourse ntities.The other common construct is the discoursesegment.
While discourse segmentation is generallytaken to be a chunking of a linguistic text intosequences ofrelated clauses or sentences, James Allennotes:... there is little consensus on what the segments ofa particular discourse should be ~ howsegmentation could be accomplished.
One reasonfor this lack of consensus i that there is no precisedefinition of what a segment isbeyond theintuition that certain sentences naturally grouptogether \[\[1\], p. 398-9\]What is taken to unify a segment is different indifferent theories: fox example, among computationallinguists, Grosz & Sidner \[5\] take a discoursesegment to be a chunk of text that expresses acommon purpose (what they have called a discoursesegment purpose) with respect o the speaker'splans; Hobbs \[8\] takes a discourse segment to be achunk of text that has a common meaning; whileNakhimovsky \[12\], considering only narrative, takesa discourse segment to be a chunk of text thatdescribes a single event from a single perspective.113DS-kDS-klDS-k2sj5 j+ lDS-k21I DS-k21 |I DS-k21 jWhile discourse segment is usually deemedrecursively, theories differ in what they take theminimal segment to be.
Hobhs takes it to be asentence, and Polanyi \[12\], a clause.
Grosz &Sidner do not state xplicitly how much is needed toexpress a single purpose, but from their examples, itappears to be a single sentence as wen.
(UnlikeHohbs and Polanyi, Grosz & Siduer do not considerevery sentence to be a discourse segment per so.
)Since discourse segment isdefmed recm~vely, theresulting segmentation f a text (or at least, largeparts of it) can be described as a tree.
From the pointof view of processing, this means that at any point inthe discourse, several segments, each embedded intheone higher, may still be open - i.e., underconstruction.
This is illuswated schematically inFigure 1.os ,- D 7DS-k2 1 1 Z /* DS-k2i JFigure 1.
Discourse Segrnentation\[2\] and Rachel Reichman \[15\]) have discussedproblems inherent in this discourse parsing task,among which is the lack of precise definition of itsbasic building block.At the point of processing sentence Sj?I in thisexample, segments DSkl, DSk211 ..... DSk21j arecomplete (closed - indicated by a *), while DSk,DSk2, and DSk21 are open, able to incorporatesentence Sj+I (or, alternatively, itscones~ndingunary discourse segment).
Of special interest is theright frontier of the tree - the set of nodescomprising the most recent closed segment and allcurrently open segments - here {DSk21j, DSk21,DSk2, and DSk}, which I will make use of later inSection 3.
Several researchers (including Grosz &Sidner \[5\], Hh-schberg & Litman \[6\], Robin CohenFor the current discussion, the most significant thingabout hese two constructs i their differentassociations: discourse ntities go with N'Ps (toexplain anaphoric and definite refemncem) anddiscourse segments go with sentences or clauses(to explain textual coherence and d~ourse stmctare).This leaves a gap in the case of referencem towhatcan only be token to be some aspect of a sequence ofclauses, sentences orutterances (e.g., its content,form, modality, etc.
), for example:Example 1It's always been presumed that when theglaciers receded, the area got very hot.
TheFolsum men couldn't adapt, and they died out.That's what is supposed to have happened.
It'sthe textlx)ok dogma.
But it's wrong.
They werehuman and smart.
They adapted their weaponsand cultme, and they survived.Example 2The tools come from the development of newtypes of computing devices.
Just as wethought of intelligence in terms of114servomechanism in the 1950s, and in terms ofsequential computers in the sixties andseventies, we are now beginning to think interms of parallel computers, in which tens ofthousands of processors work together.
Thisis not a deep, philosophical shift, but it is ofgreat practical importance, since it is nowpossible to study large emergent systemsexperimentally.
\[\[6\] p.176\]The obvious question is whether such refereneeminvolves the same processes used to explain how apronoun or NP evokes and/or efersm to a discourseentity or whether some other sort of process isinvolved.
In this paper I win argue for the latter,giving evidence for a separate r ferencem process bywhich a linguistic expression is first interpreted as apointer to the representation f a discoursesegment and then further constrained to specifyeither (a) a particular aspect of the discourse segment(e.g., its form, interpretation, speech act, etc.)
or Co) aparticular entity within its interpretation.In Section 2, I will attempt to justify the existenceof a second referringm process linked to arepresentation f discourse segments per  se.
InSection 3, I will attempt to justify particular featuresof the proposed process, and Section 4 summarizesthe impfications of this work for discourseunderstanding.2.
Just i fy ing a Second Referr ing m ProcessThere is ample vidence that subsequent reference canbe made to some aspect of a sequence of clauses intext.
Besides Examples 1 and 2 above, several otherexamples will be presented later, and the reader shouldhave no trouble fmding more.
So the existence ofsuch a phenomenon is not in dispute.
Also not indispute is the fact that such subsequent reference ismost often done via deictic pronouns: Of 79 instancesof prominal referencem toclausal material found infive written texts 1, only 14 (-18%) used the pronounit while the other 65 (-82%) used either this or that(17 instances of that and 48 of this).
On the otherhand, looking at all instances of pronominalreferencem using it to discourse ntities evoked byNPs 2, of 41 such references, 39 (-95%) used it whileonly 2 (-5%) used this or that.
Because of this, Iwill call this type of reference discourse deixis.The f'trst hing to note about discourse deixis is thatthe referentm is often distinct from the thingsdescribed in the sequence.
For example,Example 3There's two houses you might be interested in:House A is in Pale Alto.
It's got 3 bedrooms and2 baths, and was built in 1950.
It's on a quarteracre, with a lovely garden, and the owner is asking$425K.
But that's all I know about it.House B is in Portola Vally.
It's got 3 bedrooms,4 baths and a kidney-shaped pool, and was alsobuilt in 1950.
It's on 4 acres of steep woodedslope, with a view of the mountains.
The owner isasking $600IC I heard all this from a friend, whosaw the house yesterday.Is that enough information for you to decidewhich to look at?In this passage, that in the second paragraph \[doe s notrefer to House A (although all instances of it do): 'rather it refers to the description of House A presentedthere.
Similarly (all) this in the third paragraph doesnot refer to House B (although again, ~ i m s ~  ofit do): rather it refers to the description of House Bpresented there.
That in the fourth paragraph refers tothe descriptions of the two houses taken together.That in each case it is the given description(s) thatthis and that are aeces.~g and not the houses, canbe seen by interleaving the two descriptions, atechnique often used when comparing two items:Example  4There's two houses you might be interested in:House A is in Palo Alto, House B in PortolaVaily.
Both were built in 1950, and both have 3bedrooms.
House A has 2 baths, and B, 4.
HouseB also has a kidney-shaped pool.
House A is ona quarter acre, with a lovely garden, while House Bis on 4 acres of steep wooded slope, with a viewof the mountains.The owner of House A is asking$425K.
The owner of House B is ~sking $60(0#That's all I know about House A.
#This I heardfrom a friend, who saw House B before it came onthe markeLIs that enough information for you to decidewhich to look at7Here houses A and B are described together, and thefailure of that and this to refer successfully in thesecond paragraph indicates that (a) it is not the housesbeing referredm to and Co) the individual descriptionsavailable for referencem in Example 3 are no longeravailable here.
One must conclude from this that it is115something associated with the sequences themselvesrather than the discourse ntities described therein thatthis and that referm to here.The next thing to note is that the only sequences ofutterances that appear to allow such pronominalreferencem are ones that intuitively constitute adiscourse segment (cf.
Section I), as in Example1 (repeated here) and Example 5:Example 1Ifs always been presumed that \[ lWhen the glaciersreceded, the area got very hot.
The Folsum mencouldn't adapt, and they died out.
1 \] That's whatis supposed to have happened.
It's the textbookdogma.
But it's wrong.
They were human andsmart.
They adapted their weapons and cuimre, andthey survived.Example 5...it should be possible to identify certainfunctions as being unnecessary for thought bystudying patients whose cognitive abilities areunaffected by locally confined amage to the train.For example, \[lbinocular stereo fusion is knownto take place in a specific area of the cortex nearthe back of the head.
\[2Patients with damage tothis area of the cortex have visual handicaps butshow no obvious impairment in their ability tothink.
2\] This suggests that stereo fusion is notnecessary for thought.
1\] This is a simpleexample, and the conclusion is not surprising ....\[\[61, p. 183"\]In Example 1, that can be taken to referm to thenarrative of the glaciers and the Folsum men, whichis intuitively acohezent discourse segment.
(Bracketshave been added to indicate discourse segments.Subscripts allow for embedded segments.)
InExample5, the fLrst this can be token as referring to theobservation about visual cortex-damaged patients.
Thesecond this can be taken as referring to the wholeembedded "brain damage" example.To summarize the current claim: in the process ofdiscourse understanding, a referentm ust beassociated with each discourse segment, independentof the things it describes.
Moreover, as Example 6shows, this referentm ust have at least hreeproperties associated with it: the speech act import ofthe segment, he form of the segment, and itsinterpretation (e.g., as a situation, event, objectdescription, etc.
)Example 6A: Hey, they've promoted Fred to second vicepresident.
(* that speech act *)BI: That's a lie.
(* that expression *)B2:: That's a funny way to describe the situation.
(* that event *)B3: When did that happen7(* that action *)B4: That's a weird thing for them to do.I have not said anything about whether or not thesediscot~se segment referentsm should be considereddiscourse ntities like their NP-evoked counterparts.This is because I do not believe there is enoughevidence to warrant taking a stand.
Part of theproblem is that there is no precise criterion for"discourse entity-hood".
3 However, ff every discoursesegment evokes adiscourse ntity, an account will beneeded of (1) wheo in the course of processing asegment such a thing happens, and (2) what the'focus' status of each of these ntities is.3.
Features of Deictic ReferencemI suggest that the process of resolving discoursesegment referencem involves the following steps:1.
An input pronoun is first interpreted asa pointerto a representation of a discourse segment on thefight frontier (cf.
Section 1).2.
As the rest of the clause containing the pronounis interpreted, pronoun interpretation may beeithera.
further consuained to some pmpe~ of thediscourse segment representationb.
extended to one of the discourse ntities withinthe interpretation f the segment3.
As a consequence of whether this or that wasused, the listener characterizes the speakers"psychological distance" to its referentm as either"close" or "far away".
That is, this well-knowndeictic feature of this/that is not used in thereferent-finding process but rather afterwm~, inatm~bufing the speakers relationship to thatreferentm.In this section, I will try to motivate ach of theproposed steps.116I have already argued that some deictic pronouns mustbe interpreted with respect to a discourse segment.Here I claim that the only discourse segments soavailable are ones on the right frontier.
My evidencefor this consists of (a) it being true of the 69clausally-referfing instances of this and that foundin the five texts and Co) the oddity of examples likethe following variation of Example 3 where that inparagraph 3 is intended to referm to the description ofHouse A.Example 3'There's two houses you might be interested in:House A is in Palo Alto.
It's got 3 bedrooms and2 baths, and was built in 1950.
It's on a quarteracre, with a lovely garden, and the owner is asking$425K.House B is in Ponola Vally.
It's got 3 bedrooms,4 baths and a kidney-shaped pool, and was alsobuilt in 1950.
It's on 4 acres of steep woodedslope, with a view of the mountains.
The owner isasking $600K.
I heard all this from a friend, whosaw the house yesterday.
#But that's all I knowabout House A 4Is that enough information for you to decidewhich to look at?
(Note that this very limited availability of possiblereferentSm and the ability to coerce referents to any oftheir parts which I shall argue forshorfly suggestsparallels between this phenomenon a d definite NPand temporal naphora.
)Because at any time, there may be more than onediscourse segment on the fight frontier, part of thereference resolution process involves identifyingwhich one is intended.
To see this, re-consider thefhst part of Example 5.Example $...it should be possible to identify certainfunctions as being unnecessary for thought bystudying patients whose cognitive abilities areunaffected by locally confined amage to the brain.For example, binocular stereo fusion is known totake place in a specific area of the cortex near theback of the head.
Patients with damage to this areaof the cortex have visual handicaps but show noobvious impairment in their ability to think.This ....At this point in the discourse, there are severalthings that this can be taken as specifying.Considering just the things associated with clauses(and just this segment of text, and not what it isembedded in), this can be taken as specifying eitherthe segment associated with the previous entence (asin the original text - "This suggests that stereofusion is not necessary for thought.")
or the segmentassociated with the description of the whole example -"This is only a simple example, and the conclusionis not surprising...").
The listener's choice depends onwhat is compatible with the meaning of the rest ofthe sentence.
5 As with other types of ambiguity,there may be a default (i.e.
context-independent)preference for one particular form of construal overthe others (cf.
\[3\]) but it is easily over-fidden bycontext.This ambiguity as to the intended esignatum of apointer is very similar to the ambiguity associatedwith the more fundamental nd historically prior useof deixis in pointing within a shared spatio-temporalcontext, as in the following example:Example 7\[,4 and AJunior  are standing in A's art gallery\]A: Someday this will all be yours.Here this could be interpreted as either the business,the pictures, or the physical gallery.
6Both Quine\[14\] and Miller \[10\] have observed in this regard thatall pointing is ambiguous: the intendeddemonstratum of a pointing gesture can be any ofthe infinite number of points "intersected" by thegesture or any of the slzuctures encompassing thosepoints.
(Or, one might add, any interpretation fthose structures.)
The ambiguity here as to how largea segment on the fight frontier is encomp .a .~ by athis or that is very similar.
(Another featme that Quine and Miller mention, thatwill come up later in this discussion, involvesconstraints on the demonswatum of a pointinggesture to being something present in the sharedcontext or some mutually recognizable r -interpretation f it.
The latter is what Quine hascalled deferred ostension.
It enables one, giventhe fight audience, to point to the ceiling, with wiresdangling from the center, say "That's off beingcleaned" and effectively refer to the chandelier.
Mostexamples of deferred ostension, both in spatio-temporal deixis and discourse deixis, are not thatextreme.
However, as I will try to show, both thesefeatures - ambiguity and "required ~ce"  -- arecharacteristic of discourse deixis as well.
)Having taken the initial step of interpreting apronoun as pointing to the representation f adiscourse segment, he proposed process must hen be117able to further coerce  \[8,11\] that interpretation to besome property of the discourse segmentrepresentation r to some entity within it.
Example6 (above) illustrates the first type of coercion,Example 8, the latter.Example 8A: In the Antarctic autumn, Emperor penguinsmigrate to Tasmania.BI: That's where they wait out the long Antarcticwinter.
(* that place *)B2: So that's what you're likely to see there inMay.
(* that species of birds *)B3: That's when it begins to get too cold even fora penguin.
(* that time *)The reason for miring discourse segment identificationand coercion as two separate steps in the process is toaccommodate the fact that most instances of this andthat are as the fh-st NP in a clause.
7 Since thelistener cannot say for sure what they referm to untilmore evidence comes in from the rest of the sentence,a two-stage process allows the fLrSt stage of theprocess to be done immediately, with the second stagedone as a subsequent constraint satisfaction process.This would resemble spafio-temporal uses of thisand that, where the listener recognizes the generalpointing estm-e, and then tries to figure out theintended emonslratum based on what the speakersays about it (and on general heuristics about whatmight be worth pointing to).Notice that this step of further constraining apointing esture also allows for a uniform treatmentof this and do this (that and do that).
A preposedthis/that may be the object of do or of some otherverb, but the listener will not know which, until s/hereaches the verb itself, as in Example 9.
Consideringactions as properties of their espective events, thelistener should be able to coerce that to be someappropriate facet of the discourse segment (or to someentity within that segment - as I will discuss next)that can be said or done.
8Example 9Gladys told Sam last night that Fred was acomplete j rk.a.
Anyway, that's what Fred believes thatGladys said.b.
Anyway, that 's  what Fred believes thatGladys did.
9On the other hand, what appears to be an additionalambiguity in resolving this/that may not be one atall That is, a listener who is asked what a giventhis/that refersm to must describe the representationthat s/he has created.
This act of description is subjectto alot of variability.
For example, given a segmentin which a statement A is supported by several piecesof evidence {B,C,D}, the listener might just describeA (the top level of the representation) r s/he mightverbalize the whole representation.As with anaphoric pronouns, when a deictic pronounspecifies an NP-evoked iscourse ntity, it mustactually be part of its corresponding discoursesegment interpretation.
The interesting thing is thatthe same holds for deictlc NPs, distinguishing themfrom anaphoric definite NPs, which can easily refermto things ~ in some way with an exisitingentity, as inExample 10John and Mary decided to go on a picnic.While they remembered most hings,they forgot o put the picnic supplies in thecooler.So when they got to the park, the beer waswarm.By contrast, a similar example with a demonstrativeNP sounds definitely odd -Example I IJohn and Mary decided to go on a picnic.While they remembered most hings,they forgot o put the picnic supplies in thecooler.#So when they got to the park, that beer waswarm.Another example illustrates this in another way:given that both anaphoric reference and deicticrefeaence are possible in a particular context, ananaphoric ~ and a deictic NP will be interpreteddifferently, even if in all other ways the NPs are thesame.
The anaphoric NP may refer m to somethingwith the c~t  focus, while the deictic NPmust point to something already explicitly includedthere.
For example,118Example 12a.
Some f'des are superfiles.b.
To screw up some one's directory, look at thefiles.c.
If one of them is a superfde .....Example 13a.
Some t-des are superfiles.b.
To screw up some one's directory, look atthose files.c.
They will tell you which of his f'des isabsolutely vital to him.In Example 12, the files is anaphoric, specifyingthe fries in that person's directory, the entity currentlyin focus.
In Example 13, those files is deictic,pointing to the fries that are superfdes, i.e., to adiscourse ntity explicitly in the interpretation f thejust current discourse segment.Now, nothing in the process o far describeddistinguishes this and that.
This is because withrespect to discourse segment referencem, it is rarelythe case that the two cannot be usedinterchangeably.
10 Thus it must be the case that this"psychological distance" feature of the deictic onlycomes into play after the referentm is found.
Thisdoes not imply though that this and that cannothave diffeaent eff~m on the discourse: in Sidne~s1982 theory \[17\] and in Schuster's theory of refm-enceto actions and events \[16\], this and that are alsodistinguished by their effect (or lack thereof) on thediscourse focus.
This is compatible with it beinga side effect of judging the speaker's "distance" fromthe referent m, that the listener's beliefs about heirshared iscourse focus are revised.To summarize, in Section 2, I argued for theexistence of a second refening process associated withdiscourse segments per se rather than what theydescribe.
In this section, I have argued for it havingthe features of pointing to the representation f adiscourse segment on the right frontier, followed byfurther efinement toa property of the segment or anentity within its interpretation.Here I want to argue for the proposed process havingone additional feature.
I have separated it out becauseit is not essential to the above arguments.
However,it does permit an account of the common pattern ofreference illustrated in Examples 1, 2, 14 and 15.Example 1It's always been presumed that when theglaciers receded, the area got very hoL TheFolsum men couldn't adapt, and they died out.That 's  what is supposed to have happened.It 's the textbook dogma.
But it 's wrong.They were human and smart.
They adaptedtheir weapons and culture, and they survived.Example 2The tools come from the development of newtypes of computing devices.
Just as wethought of intelligence in terms ofservomechanism in the 1950s, and in termsof sequential computers in the sixties andseventies, we are now beginning to think interms of parallel computers, in which tens ofthousands of processors work together.
Thisis not a deep, philosophical shift, but it is ofgreat practical importance, since it is nowpossible to study large emergent systemsexperimentally.
\[\[6\], p.176\]Example 14I don't hink this can be taken seriously either.It would mean in effect hat we had learnednothing at all from the evaluation, and anywaywe can't afford the resources it would entaiLExample 15The Texas attorney general said that theMcDonald's announcement represented "acalculated effort o make the public think thatthey were doing this out of the goodness of theirheart when, in fact.
they were doing it because ofpressure fiom our office.
\[Philadelphia Inquirer,13 June 1986\]Suppose one assumes that the ability to specifysomething via an anaphoric pronoun is a sufficientcriterion for "discourse entity-hood".
Then I wouldclaim that whether or not a discourse segmentreferentm is initially created as a discourse ntity,once the speaker has successfully referred to it viathis/that, it must now have the status of a discourseentity since it can be referenced via the anapboricpronoun it.
11Note that I do not mean to imply that one cannotrefer deictically to the same thing more than once --one clearly can, for example119Example 16They wouldn't hear to my giving up my career inNew York.
That was where I belonged.
Thatwas where I had to be to do my work.
\[PeterTaylor, A Summons to Memphis, p.68\]Example 17By this time of course I accepted Holly's doctrinethat our old people must be not merely forgivenall their injustices and unconscious cruelties intheir roles as parents but that any selfmhness ontheir parts had actually been required of them ifthey were to remain whole human beings and notbecome merely guardian robots of the young.This was something to be remembered, notforgotten.
This was something tobe acceptedand even welcomed, not forgotten or forgiven.But of the (admittedly few) "naun-~y occurring"instances of this phenomenon that I have so farfound, the matrix clauses are strongly parallel -comments on the same thing.
Moreover, except incases uch as Example 17, where the second clauseintensifies the predication expressed in the first, thetwo clauses could have been presented in either order,which does not appear to be the case in the deixis-anaphor pattern of reference.4.
SUMMARYIn this paper, I have proposed and argued for aprocess-based account of subsequent reference viadeictic expressions.
The account depends ondiscourse segments having their own mentalreality, distinct from that of the entities describedtherein.
As such, discourse segments play a direct rolein this theory, as opposed to their indirect role inexplaining, for example, how the referents of definiteNPs are conswained.
One consequence is it becomesas important to consider the representation of entirediscourse segments and their features as it is toconsider the representation of individual NPs andclauses.ACKNOWLEDGMENTSThis work was partially supported by ARO grantDAA29-884-9-0027, NSF grant MCS-8219116-CERand DARPA grant NO0014-85K-O018 totheUniversity of Pennsylvania, nd an Alvey grant o theCenlre for Speech Technology Research, Universityof Edinburgh.
It was done while the author was onsabbatical leave at the University of Edinburgh inFall 1987 and at Medical Computer Science, StanfordUniversity in Spring 1988.
My thanks to JerryHobbs, Mark Steedman, James Allen and EthelSchuster for their helpful comments on many, manyearlier versions of this paper.REFERENCES\[1\].Allen, J.
Natural Language Understanding.Menlo Park: Benjamin/Cummings Publ.
Co.,1987.\[2\] Cohen, R. A Computational Theory of theFunction of Clue Words in ArgumentUnderstanding.
Proc.
COLING-84, StanfordUniversity, Stanford CA, July 1984, pp.251-258.\[3\] Crain, S. and Steedman, M. On not being led upthe garden path: the use of context by thepsychological parser.
In Natural LanguageParsing, D. Dowry, L. Karttunen & A.
Zwicky(eds.
), Cambridge: Cambridge Univ.
Press, 1985.\[4\] Grosz, B.
The Representation a d Use of Focus ina System for Understanding Dialogs.
InElements of Discourse Understanding, A.Joshi, B. Webber & I.
Sag (eds.
), Cambridge:Cambridge Univ.
Press, 1981.
(Reprinted inReadings in Natural LanguageProcessing, B. Grosz, IC Sparck Jones & B.Webber (eds.
), Los Altos: Morgan KaafmannPubl., 1986.
)\[5\] Grosz, B.
& Sidner, C. Attention, Intention andthe Structure of Discourse.
ComputationalLinguistics, 12(3), July-Sept. 1986, pp.175-204.\[6\] Hillis, W.D.
Intelligence as an EmergentBehavior, Daedalus, Winter 1988, pp.175-190.\[7\] Hirschberg, J.
& Litman, D. Now Let's Talkabout Now: Identifying Cue PhrasesIntonationally.
Proc.
25th Annual Meeting,Assoc.
for Comp.
Ling., Stanford Univ.Stanford CA, July 1987.\[8\] Hobbs, J., Stickel, M., Martin, P. and Edwards,D.
Interpretation asAbduction.
Proc.
26thAnnual Meeting, Assoc.
for Comp.Ling., SUNY Buffalo, Buffalo NY, June 1988.\[9\] Karttunen, L. Discourse Referents.
In Syntaxand Semantics, Volume 7, J. McCawley (ed.
),New York: Academic Press, 1976.\[ 10\] Miller, G. Problems in the Theory ofDemonstrative R ference.
In Speech, Placeand Action, R. Jarvella & W. Klein (eds.
), NewYork: Wily, 1982.120\[11\] Moens, M. and Steedman, M. TemporalOntology and Temporal Reference.Computational Linguistics, to appearSummer 1988.\[12\] Nakhimovsky, A.
Aspect, Aspectual Class andthe Temporal Slructure of Narrative.Computational Linguistics, to appearSummer 1988.\[13\] Polanyi, L. The Linguistic Discourse Model:Towards aformal theory of discourse slrucmre.TR-6409.
BBN Laboratories Incorp., CambridgeMA, November 1986.\[14\] Quine, W. The Inscrutability of Reference.
InSemantics: An Interdisciplinary Reader, D.Steinberg & L. Jacobovits (eds.
), Cambridge:Cambridge University.
Press, 1971. pp.
142-154.\[15\] Reichman, R. Getting Computers to Talklike You and Me.
Cambridge MA: M1T Press,1985.\[16\] Schuster, E. Pronominal Reference to Events andActions: Evidence from Naturally-occurring ,l~raMS-CIS-88-13, Computer & Information Science,Univ.
of Pennsylvania, February 1988.\[17\] Sidner, C. Focusing in the Comprehension fDefinite Anaphora.
In Computational Modelsof Discourse, M. Brady & R. Berwick (eds.
),Cambridge MA: MIT Press, 1982, pp~267-330.\[18\] Webber, B.
So What can we Talk about Now?
InComputational Models of Discourse, M.Brady & R. Berwick (eds.
), Cambridge MA: MITPress, 1982, pp.331-371.1 The five texts are (1) Peter Taylor's novel,Summons to Memphis, Ballentine Books, 1986(pp.l-21); (2) W.D.
Hillis' essay, "Intelligence as asEmergent Behavi~", Daedalus, Winter 1988, pp.175-189; (3) an editorial from The Guardian, 15 December1987; (4) John Ryle's review of a set of books ondrug use, "Kinds of Control", TLS, 23-29 October1987, pp.1163-1164; (5) Phil Williams' review of aset of books on disarmament, "New threats, newunderminties", TLS, 20-26 November 1987, p.1270.All instances of pronominal referencem using it,this and that were tabulated.I specifically used wrilxen (primarily objective)expositions rather than spoken texts in order to avoidthe common use of this/that in first-personaccounts to refer to the outside world.2 that is, ignoring all syncategorematic uses of it (asin "It is possible that John is here")3 As I shall argue at the end of Section 3, the abilityto refer to something anaphorically might be asufficient, hough perhaps not a necessary criterionfor "entity-hood".4 If the example were "That's all I know about it",that would be taken as referring to the description ofHouse B, not the discourse segment associated withthe clause "I heard all this from a friend, who saw thehouse yesterday'.
(Call this later segment DS-h.)However, this need not invalidate my claim about heaccessibility of discourse segments since DS-h can beunderstood asa parenthetical, which are treateddifferently than non-parentheticals in theories ofdiscourse - cf.
\[GS85\].
While a parenthetical mayitself contain adecitic pointer to a discourse segmenton the right frontier, it doesn't influence the frontier.Thus that still has the same discourse segmentsaccessible as it would without he parenthetical.Another example of discourse deixis from aparenthetical is this variation of Example 5....it should be possible to identify certainfunctions as being unnecessary for thought bystudying patients whose cognitive abilities areunaffected by locally confmed amage to the brain.For example, binocular stereo fusion is known totake place in a specific area of the cortex near theback of the head (This was discovered about 10years ago).
Patients with damage to this area ofthe cortex have visual handicaps but show noobvious impairment in their ability to think.5 To get further data on this, I ran an informal"discourse completion" experiment, modelled on theabove lines, presenting a short, multi-sentence textwhich I judged as having several segments on theright frontier at the point of the last sentence.
Asabove, I asked subjects to complete a next sentencebeginning "That..."<The subject here is legends of the formation of theGrand Canyon><What follows is the second paragraph of the giventext>"Another legend tells of a great chief who could notcease from mourning the death of his beloved wife.Finally the gods offered to take him to visit his wife121so that he could see she was contented in the happyhunting round.
In exchange, he was to stop grievingwhen he returned to the land of the living.
That..."I also asked subjects to paraphrase what they wrote,to see explicitly what they took that to specify.
Theresponses I got showed them taking it to specifyeither the chiefs action (expressed in the previous,single sentence segment) or the whole "bargain"(expressed in the segment comprising both previousclauses).
While this particular experiment was onlyinformal and suggestive, well-controlled versionsshould be able to produce harder results.6 Presumably A_Junior will have enough context toresolve this more precisely, or he will be smartenough to ask.7 Of the 69 clausally-referring i stances of this andthat pronouns, 51 (-70%) were in subject positionin standard SVO clauses (7 instances of that and 44,of this), 17 played some other ole within theirmalrix clause, and 1 was a preposed adverbial Cafterthat").
Hence -75% were first NPs.8 This does not say which of those actions will bepicked out.
See \[Schus88\] for a discussion of thechoice of event/action referents of pronouns.9 It is possible to construct quite acceptable examplesin which a preposed that functions as the object ofboth do and some other verb -- for example "Severaluniversities have made computer science aseparateschool But that is not necessarily what we want orcould even do."
The conjunction of two forms us~milymeans that at some level, both forms are taken asbeing the same.10 That is because with respect to discourse segmentrefereneem, it is rarely the case that he two cannot beused interchangcably!11 If one assumes that a discourse segment referentmis also a discourse ntity ab ovo, as it were, then thispattern might simply be interpreted assuch an entitycoming into focus as a result of the deictic reference.As I noted earlier, there is not enough evidence toargue'either way yet, nor is it clear that he twoaccounts would have vastly different consequencesanyway.122
