A HYBRID APPROACH TO REPRESENTATION IN THEJANUS NATURAL LANGUAGE PROCESSORRalph M. WeischedelBBN Systems and Technologies Corporation10 Moulton St.CambHdge, MA 02138AbstractIn BBN's natural language understanding andgeneration system (Janus), we have used a hybridapproach to representation, employing an intensionallogic for the representation of the semantics of ut-terances and a taxonomic language with formalsemantics for specification of descriptive constantsand axioms relating them.
Remarkably, 99.9% of7,000 vocabulary items in our natural language ap-plications could be adequately axiomatlzed in thetaxonomic language.1.
IntroductionHybrid representation systems have been ex-plored before \[9, 24, 31\], but until now only one hasbeen used in an extensive natural language process-ing system.
KL-TWO \[31\], based on a propositionallogic, was at the core of the mapping from formulae tolexical items in the Penman generation system \[28\].In this paper we report some of the design decisionsmade in creating a hybrid of an intensional ogic with ataxonomic language for use in Janus, BBN's naturallanguage system, consisting of the IRUS-II under-standing components \[5\] and the Spokesman genera-tion components.
To our knowledge, this is the firsthybrid approach using an intensional logic, and thefirst time a hybrid representation system has beenused for understanding.In Janus, the meaning of an utterance isrepresented as an expression in WML (World ModelLanguage)\[15\], which is an intensional logic.However, a logic merely prescribes the framework ofsemantics and of ontology.
The descriptiveconstants, that is the individual constants (functionswith no arguments), the other function symbols, andthe predicate symbols, are abstractions without anydetailed commitment o ontology.
(We will abbreviatedescriptive constants throughout he remainder of thispaper as constants.
)Axioms stating the relationships between the con-stants are defined in NIKL \[8, 22\].
We wished to ex-plore whether a language with limited expressivepower but fast reasoning procedures is adequate forcore problems in natural language processing.
TheNIKL axioms constrain the set of possible models forthe logic in a given domain.Though we have found clear examples that arguefor more expressive power than NIKL provides, 99.9%of the examples in our expert system and data bassapplications have fit well within the constraints ofNIKL.
Based on our experience and that of others,the axioms and limited inference algorithms can beused for classes of anaphora resolution, interpretationof highly polysemous or vague words such as haveand with, finding omitted relations in novel nomina/compounds, and selecting modifier attachment basedon selection restrictions.Sections 2 and 3 describe the rationale for ourchoices in creating this hybrid.
Section 4 illustrateshow the hybrid is used in Janus.
Section 5 brieflysummarizes some experience with domain-independent abstractions for organizing constants ofthe domain.
Section 6 identifies related hybrids, andSection 7 summarizes our conclusions.2.
_Commitments to ComponentHepresentation FormalismsWe chose well-documented representation /an-guages in order to focus on formally specifyingdomains and using ~hat specification in languageprocessing rather than on defining new domain-independent representation languages.A critical decision was our selection of intensionallogic as the semantic representation language.
(Ourmotivations for that choice are covered in Section2.1.)
Given an intensional logic, the fundamentalquestion was how to support inference for semanticand discourse processing.
The novel aspect of thedesign was selecting a taxonomic language and as-sociated inference techniques for that purpose.2.1.
Why an Intensional LogicFirst and foremost, though we had found first-order representations adequate (and desirable) for NLinterfaces to relational data bases, we felt a richersemantic representation was important for future ap-plications.
The following classes of representationchallenges motivated our choice.?
Explicit representations of time and world.Object-oriented simulation systems were an ap-plication that involved these, as were expertsystems supporting hypothetical worlds.
Theunderlying application systems involved a treeof possible worlds.
Typical questions aboutthese included What if the stop time were 20hours?
to set up a possible world and run a193simulation, and In which situations is blue attri.tion greater than 50%?
where the whole tree ofworlds is to be examined.
The potential of time-varying entities existed in some of the applica-tions as well, whether attribute values (as inHow often has U$$ Enterprise been C3?)
orentities (When was CV22 decommissioned~The time and world indices of WML providedthe opportunity to address such semanticphenomena (though a modal temporal logic orother logics might serve this prupose).?
Distributive/collective quantification.
Collectivereadings could arise, though they appear rare,e.g., Do USS Frederick's capabilities includeanti.submarine warfare or When did the shipscollide?
See \[25\] for a computational treatmentof distributive/collective r adings in WML.?
Generics and Mass Terms.
Mass terms andgenerally true statements arise in these applica-tions, such as in Do nuclear carriers carry JP5?,where JP5 is a kind of jet fuel.
Term-formingoperators and operators on predicates are oneapproach and can be accommodated in inten-sional logics.?
Propositional Attitudes.
Statements of userpreference, e.g., I want to leave in theafternoon, should be accommodated in inter-faces to expert systems, as should statementsof belief, I believe I must fly with a U.S. carrier.Since intensionel logics allow operators onpredicates and on propositions, such state-ments may be conveniently represented.Our second motivation for choosing intensionallogic was our desire to capitalize on other advantageswe perceived for applying it to natural languageprocessing (NLP), such as the potential simplicity andcompositionality of mapping from syntactic form tosemantic representation and the many studies in lin-guistic semantics that assume some form of inten-sional logic.However, the disadvantages of intensional logicfor NLP include:?
The complexity of logical expressions is greateven for relatively straightforward utterancesusing Montague grammar\[21\].
However, byadopting intensional logic while rejecting Mon-tague grammar, we have made some inroadstoward matching the complexity of the proposi-tion to the complexity of the utterance; thatsimplicity is at the expense of using a morepowerful semantic interpreter and of sacrificingcompositionality in those cases where languageitself appears non-compositional.?
Real-time inference strategies are a challengefor so rich a logic.
However, our hypothesis isthat large classes of the linguistic examples re-quiring common sense reasoning can be194handled using limited inference algorithms on ataxonomic language.
Arguments supportingthis hypothesis appear in \[2, 13\] for interpretingnominal compounds; in \[6, 7, 29\], for commonsense reasoning about modifier attachment;and in \[32\] for phenomena in definite referenceresolution.This second disadvantage, the goal of tractable,real.time inference strategies, is the basis for addingtaxonomic reasoning to WML, giving a hybridrepresentation.2.2.
Why a Taxonomic  LanguageOur hypothesis is that much of the reasoningneeded in semantic processing can be supported by ataxonomy.
The ability to pre-compile pre-specifiedinferential chains, to index them via concept nameand role name, and to employ taxonomic inheritancefor organizing knowledge were critical in selectingtaxonomic representation to supplement WML.The well-defined semantics of NIKL was the basisfor choosing it over other taxonomic systems.
A fur-that benefit in choosing NIKL is the availability ofKREME \[1\], which can be used as a sophisticatedbrowsing, editing, and maintenance environment fortaxonomies such as those written in NIKL; KREMEhas proven effective in a number of BBN expert sys-tem efforts other than NLP and having a taxonomicknowledge base.In choosing NIKL to axiomatize the constants, onecould use its built-in, incomplete inference algorithm,the classifier \[27\].
In Janus, the classifier is used onlyfor consistency checking when modifying or loadingthe taxonomic network; any concepts or roles iden-tiffed by the (classifier as identical are candidates forfurther axiomatization.
Our semantic procedures donot need even as sophisticated an algorithm as theNIKL classifier; pre-compiled, pre-defined inferencechains in the network are simpler, faster, and haveproven adequate for NLP in our applications.2.3.
Two Critical Choices in the Hybr id2.3.1.
Representing Predicates of Arbitrary ArityChoosing a taxonomic language, at least in cur-rent implementations, means that one is restricted tounary and binary predicates.
However, this not alimitation in expressive power.
One can represent apredicate P of n arguments via a unary predicate P'and n binary predicates, which is what we have done.
(P rl ..... m) will be true iff the following expression is.
(3 b) (^ ( r  \]:)) (R1 b r\].)
(R2 b r2) ... (Rn b rn))Davidson \[5\] has argued for such a representation ofprocesses on semantic grounds, since many eventdescriptors appear with a variable number of ar-guments.2.3.2.
Time and World IndicesAny concept name or role name in the network isa constant in the logical language.
We use conceptsonly to represent sets of entities indexed by time andworld.
Roles are used only to represent sets of pairsof entities, i.e., binary relations.
Given time and worldindices potentially on each constant in WML, we mustfirst state the role those indices play in the NIKL por-tion of the hybrid.
(1, go)Figure 1: Two Typical Facts Stated in NIKLIn a first-order extensional logic, the normalsemantics of SUPERC and of roles in NIKL are welldefined \[26\].
For instance, the diagram in figure 1would mean(V x)((a x) = (a x))(V x)((a x) = (3yX^(C y) (R x y))).Due to a suggestion by David Stallard, we havechosen to interpret SUPERC and the role linksimilarly, but interpreted under modal necessity, i.e.,as propositions true at all times in all worlds.
Thus inthe diagram in Figure 1, (A z), (B z), (C z), and (R x y)are intensions, i.e., functions with arguments of timeand world \[t, w\] to extensions.
Rewriting the axiomsabove by quantifying over all times and worlds, theaxioms for the diagram in Figure 1 in the hybridrepresentation are(V x)(V t)(V w)((B x)(t..,\] ~ (A x)\[t.w\])(v x)(V O(V w)((B x)\[t,w\](3 y)(^ (C y)\[t.w\] (R x y)\[t.w\])).Though this handles the overwhelming majority ofconstants we need to axiomatize, it does not allow forrepresenting constants taking intensional argumentsbecause the axioms above allow for quantificationover extensions only)The semantics of predicateswhich should have intensions as arguments are unfor-tunately specified separately.
Examples that havearisen in our applications involve changes in a readingon a scale, e.g., USS Stark's readiness downgradedfrom C1 to C4.
2 We would like to treat that sentenceas:(^ (DOWNGRADE a)(SCALE a (\[NTENS\[ON Stark-readiness))(PREVIOUS a C1)(NEW a C4)).That is, for the example we would like to treat thescale as intensional, but have no way to do so inNIKL.
Therefore, we had to annotate the definition ofdowngrade outside of the formal semantics of NIKL.Only 0.1% of the 7,000 (root) word vocabulary in ourapplications could not be handled with NIKL.
(Theadditional problematic vocabulary were upgrade,project, report, change, and expect.)3.
Example Representational DecisionsHere we mention some of the issues we focussedon in developing Janus.
The specification of WMLappears in \[15\]; specifications for NIKL appear in\[22, 26\].Few constants.
One decision was to use as fewconstants as possible, deriving as many entities aspossible using operators in the intensionai logic.
Inthis section we illustrate this point by showing howdefinitely referenced sets, information about kinds, in-definitely identified sets, and generic information canbe stated by derivation from a single constant whoseextension is the set of all individuals of a particularclass.Some of the expressive power of the hybrid isillustrated below as it pertains to minimizing the con-stants needed From the constants BLACK-ENTITIES,GRAY-ENTITIES, CATS and MICE, the operatorsTHE, POWER, KIND, and SAMPLE are used toderive the entities corresponding to definite sets,generic classes, and indefinite sets.
In a semanticnetwork without the hybrid, one might choose (orneed) to represent each of our derived entities by anode in the network.
Our use of the operator THE,and the operator POWER for definite plurals followsScha \[25\].
The operators KIND and SAMPLE followCad.son's analysis \[10\] of the semantics of bareplurals.THE, as an operator, takes three arguments: avariable, a sort (unary predicate), and a proposition.Its denotation is the unique salient object in contextsuch that it is in the sort and such that if the variable isbound to it, the proposition is true.
POWER takes asort as argument and produces the predicate cor-responding to the power set of the set denoted by thesort.
These operators are useful for representingdefinite plurals; the black cats would be representedas (THE x (POWER CATS) (BLACK-ENTITIES x)).vlt is possible that one could extend NIKL semantics to allow forinter~sional aK3uments .
but this has not been done.
2An analogy in more common terminology would be His tempera- ture dropped from 104 degrees to 99 degrees.195SAMPLE takes the same arguments as THE, butindicates some set of entities satisfying the sort andproposition, not necessarily the largest set.
KINDtakes a sort as argument, and produces an individualrepresenting the sort; its only use is for bare pluralsthat are surface subjects of a generic statement.
If weare predicating something of a bare plural, KIND isused; for instance, cats as in cats are ferocious isrepresented as (KIND CATS).
An indefinite set aris-ing as a bare plural in a VP is represented usingSAMPLE; for instance, gray mice as in Cats eat graymice is represented as (SAMPLE x MICE (GRAY-ENTITIES x)).The examples above demonstrate that an inten-sional logic enables derivation of many entities fromfewer constants than would be needed in NIKL orother frame-based systems.
The next example il-lustrates how the intensional logic lets us expresssome propositions that can be stated in many seman-tic network systems, but not in NIKL.Generic assertions.
Generic statements such asCats eat mice are often encoded in a semantic net-work or frame system.
This is not possible in thesemantics of NIKL, but is possible in the hybrid.
Thestructure in Figure 2 would not give the desiredgeneric meaning, but rather would mean (ignoringtime and world) that(V x) ((CATS x) = (3 y)(^ (MICE y)(EAT x y))),i.e., every cat eats some mouse.EAT(1,oo)Figure 2: Illustration Distinguishing NIKL Networksfrom other Semantic NetsAgain, following Carlson's linguistic analysis \[10\], inthe hybrid we would have a generic statement aboutthe kind corresponding to cats, that these eat in-definitely specified sets of mice.
GENERIC is anoperator which produces a predicate on kinds, intui-tively meaning that the resulting predicate is typicallytrue of individuals of the kind that is its argument.
Ourformal representation (ignoring tense for simplicity) is(GENERIC (LAMBDA (x)(EAT x(SAMPLE y MICE)))) (KIND CATS).Next we illustrate a potential powerful feature ofthe hybrid which we have chosen not to exploit.Derivable definitions.
The hybrid gives a powerfulmeans of defining lexical items.
To define pi/o~ onewants a predicate defining the set of people that typi-cally are the actors in a flight, i.e.,(LAMBDA (x'){ ^  (PERSON x')(GENERIC (LAMBDA (x)(3 y)(^ (FLYING-EVENT y)(ACTOR y x)))) x') })Though the hybrid gives us the representationalcapacity to make such definitions, we have chosen aspart of our design no_._tt o use it.
For to use it, wouldmean stepping outside of NIKL to specify constants,and therefore, that the reasoning algorithms based ontaxonomic semantics would not be the simple, ef-ficient strategies, but rather might require arbitrarilycomplex theorem proving for expressions in inten-sional logic.
34.
Use of the Taxonomy in JanusBy domain mode/we mean the set of axioms en-coded in NIKL regarding the constants.
The domainmodel serves several purposes in Janus.
Of course,in defining the constants of our semantic represen-tation language, it provides the constants that can ap-pear in formulae that lexical items map to.
For in-stance, vessel and ship map to VESSEL.
In the ex-ample above regarding pilot, the constants were PER-SON, FLYING-EVENT, and ACTOR; in the formula?
above stating that cats eat mice, the constants wereEAT, MICE, and CATS,In this section, we divide the discussion in threeparts: current uses of the domain model in Janus; aplausible, but rejected use; and proposals for its use,but not yet implemented.4.1.
Cur rent  Uses4.1.1.
Selection RestrictionsThe domain model provides the semantic classes(or sorts of a sorted logic) that form the primitives forselection restrictions.
Its use for this purpose is nei-ther novel nor surprising, merely illustrative.
In thecase of deploy, a MILITARY-UNIT can be the logicalsubject, and the object of a phrase marked by to mustbe a LOCATION.
Almost all selection restrictions arebased on the semantic class of the entities describedby a noun phrase.
That is, almost all may be checkedby using taxonomic knowledge regarding constants.A table of semantic classes for the operators dis-cussed earlier is provided in Figure 3.
Though thelogical form for ~e carriers, all carriers, some carriers,a carrier, and carriers (both in the KIND and SAMPLEcase) varies, the selection restriction must check the=USC/ISI \[19\] has proposed e first-order formula defining the set ofitems that have ever been the actor in a flight.
Their definition issolely within NIKL using the QUA link \[14\], which is exactly the set offillers of a slot.
While having eve._..rr flown could be a sense of pilot, itseems less useful than the sense of normally flying a plane.196NIKL network for consistency between the constantCARRIERS and the constraint of the selection restric-tion.
To see this, consider the case of command (inthe sense of a military command) which requires thatits direct object in active clauses be a MILITARY-UNIT and that its surface subject in passive clausesbe a MILITARY-UNIT, i.e., its logical object must be aMILITARY-UNIT.
Suppose USS Enterprise, carrier,and aircraft carrier all have semantic class CARRIER.Since an ancestor of CARRIER in the taxonomy isMILITARY-UNIT, each of those phrases satisfy theaforementioned selection restriction on the verbcommand.
Phrases whose class does not haveMILITARY-UNIT as an ancestor or as a descendent 4will not satisfy the selection restriction.
That is,definite evidence of consistency with the selectionrestriction is normally required.Expression Semantic Class(THE x P (R x)) P(POWER P) P(KIND P) P(SAMPLE x P (R x)) P(LAMBDA x P (R x)) PFigure 3: Relating Expressions to Classes sThere are three cases where more must be done.For pronouns, Janus saves selection restrictions thatwould apply to the pronoun's referent, later applyingthose constraints to eliminate candidate referents.Metonymy is an exception, discussed in Section 4.3.2.There are cases of selection restrictions requiring in-formation additional to the semantic class, but theseare checked against the type of the logicalexpression s for a noun phrase, rather than its seman-tic class only.
Co/fide requires a set of agents.
Thetype of a plural, for instance, is (SET P), where P is itssemantic class.
The selection restriction on collidecould be represented as (SET PHYSICAL-OBJECT).4.1.2.
Highly Polysemous WordsHave, with, and of, are highly polysemous.
Someof their senses are very specific, frozen, and predict-able, e.g., to have a col~ these senses may beitemized in the |exicon.
However, other senses arevague, if considered in a domain-independent way;nevertheless, they must be resolved to precise mean-ings if accessing a data base, expert system, etc.US$ Frederick has a speed of 30 knots has thisflavor, for the general sense is associating an attributewith an entity.To handle such cases, we look for a relation R inthe domain model which could be the domain-dependent interpretation.
If A has B, the B of A, or ,4with B are input, the semantic interpreter looks for arole R from the class associated with A to the classassociated with B.
If no such role exists, the search isfor a role relating the nearest ancestor of the class ofA to any ancestor of the class of B.
The implicit as-sumption is that items structured closely together inthe domain model can be related with such vaguewords, and that items that can be related via suchvague words will naturally have been organizedclosely together in the domain model.While describing the procedure as a search, infact, an explicit run-time search may not be neces-sary.
All SUPERCs (ancestors) of a concept are com-piled and stored when the taxonomy is loaded.
Allroles from one concept to another are also pre-compiled and stored, maintaining the distinction be-tween roles that are explicit locally versus those thatare compiled.
Furthermore, the ancestors and rolerelations are indexed.
One need only walk up thechain of ancestors if no locally defined role relates thetwo concepts, but some inherited (not locally defined)role does; then one walks up the ancestor chain(s)only to find the closest applicable role.
Thus, in manycases, "semantic reasoning" is reduced to efficienttable lookup.4.1.3.
Relation to Underlying SystemAdopting WML offers the potential of simplifyingthe mapping from surface form to semantic represen-tation, although it does increase the complexity ofmapping from WML to executable code, such as SQLor expert system function calls.
The mapping fromintensional logic to executable code i s  beyond thescope of this paper; our first implementation wasreported in \[30\]; the current implementation will bedescribed elsewhere.This process makes use of a model of underlyingsystem capabilities in which each element relates aset of domain model constants to a method for ac-cessing the related information in the database, ex-pert system, simulation program, etc.
For example,the constant HARPOON-CAPABLE, which defines aset of vessels equipped with harpoon missiles, is as-sociated with an undedying system model elementwhich states how to select the subset of exactly thosevessels.
In a Navy relational data base that we havedealt with, the relevant code selects just those recordsof a table of unit characteristics with a "Y" in theHARP field.~Ne ched~ whether the constraint is a descendent of the class ofthe noun phrase to determine whether consistency is possible.
Forinstance, if decom/ssion requires a VESSEL as the object of thede<:ommisioning, those units and they satisfy the selection constrainLSThe ruJels may need to be used tecureively to get to a constanLaEvery expression in WML has a type.4.1.?
Knowledge AcquisitionWe have developed two complementary tools togreatly increase our productivity in porting BBN'sJanus NL understanding and generation system tonew domains.
IRACQ \[3\] supports learning lexicalsemantics from examples with only one unknown197word.
IRACQ is used for acquiring the diverse, com-plex patterns of syntax and semantics arising fromverbs, by providing examples of the verb's usage,Since IRACQ assumes that a large vocabulary isavailable for use in the training examples," a way torapidly infer the knowledge bases for the overwhelm-ing majority of words is an invaluable complement.KNACQ \[33\] serves that purpose.
The domainmodel is used to organize, guide, and assist in acquir-ing the syntax and semantics of domain-specificvocabulary.
Using the browsing facilities, graphicalviews, and consistency checker of KREME\[1\] onNIKL taxonomies, one may select any concept or rolefor knowledge acquisition.
KNACQ presents the userwith a few questions and menus to elicit the Englishexpressions used to refer to.
that concept or role.To illustrate the kinds of information that must beacquired consider the examples in Figure 4.The vessel speed of VinsonThe vessels with speed above 20 knotsThe vessel's speed is 5 knotsVinson has speed less than 20 knotsIts speedWhich vessels have a CROVL of C3?Which vessels are deployed C3?Figure 4: Examples for Knowledge AcquisitionTo handle these one would have to acquire infor-mation on lexical syntax, lexical semantics, and map-ping to expert system structure for all words not in thedomain-independent dictionary.
For purposes of thisexposition, assume that the words, vessel, speed,Vinson, CROVL, C3, and deploy are to be defined.
Avessel has a speed of 20 knots or a vessel's speed is20 knots would be understood from domain-independent semantic rules regarding have and be,once lexical information for vessel and speed is ac-quired.
In acquiring the definitions of vessel andspeed, the system should infer interpretations forphrases such as the speed of a vessel, the vessel'sspeed, and the vessel speed.Given the current implementation, the requiredknowledge for the words vessel, speed, and CROVLis most efficiently acquired using KNACQ; names ofinstances of classes, such as Vinson and C3 areautomatically inferred from instances; and knowledgeabout deploy and its derivatives would be acquired viaIRACQ.To illustrate this acquistion centered around thedomain model, consider acquistion centered aroundroles.
At~'ibutes are binary relations on classes thatcan be phrased as the <relation> of a <class>.
Forinstance, suppose CURRENT-SPEED is a binaryrelation relating vesselis to SPEED, a subclass ofONE-D-MEASUREMENT.
An attribute treatment isthe most appropriate, for the speed of a vessel makesperfect sense.
KNACQ asks the user for one or moreEnglish phrases associated with this functional role;the user response in this case is speed.
That answeris sufficient to enable the system to understand thekernel noun-phrases listed in Figure 5.
-Since ONE-D-MEASUREMENT is the range of the relation, thesoftware knows that statistical operations such asaverage and maximum apply to speed.
The lexicalinformation inferred is used compositionally with thesyntactic rules, domain independent semantic rules,and other lexical semantic rules.
Therefore, thegenerative capacity of the lexical semantic and syn-tactic information is linguistically very great, as onewould require.
A small subset of the examples il-lustrating this without introducing new domain specificlexical items appears in Figure 5.KERNEL NOUN PHRASESthe speed of a vesselthe vessers speedthe vessel speedRESULTS from COMPOSITIONALITYThe vessel speed of VinsonVinson has speed 1The vessels with a speed of 20 knotsThe vessel's speed is 5 knotsVinson has speed less than 20 knotsTheir greatest speedIts speedWhich vessels have speed above 20 knotsWhich vessels have speedsEisenhower has Vinson's speedCarriers with speed 20 knotsTheir average speedsFigure 5: Attribute ExamplesSome lexicalizations of roles do not fall within theattribute category.
For these, a more general class ofregularities is captured by the notion of caseframerules.
Suppose we have a role UNIT-OF, relatingCASREP and MILITARY-UNIT.
KNACQ asks theuser which subset of the following six patterns inFigure 6 are appropriate plus the prepositions that areappropriate.1.
<CASREP> is <PREP> <MILITARY-UNIT>2.
<CASREP> <PREP> <MILITARY-UNIT>3.
<MILITARY-UNIT> <CASREP>4.
<MILITARY-UNIT> is <PREP> <CASREP>5.
<MILITARY-UNIT> <PREP> <CASREP>6.
<CASREP> <MILITARY-UNIT>Figure 6: Patterns for the Caseframe RulesFor this example, the user would select patterns (1),198(2), and (3) and select for, on.
and of as prepositions.
7The information acquired through KNACQ is usedboth by the understanding components and by BBN'sSpokesman generation components for paraphrasing,for providing clarification responses, and for answersin English.
Mapping from the WML structures to lex-ical items is accomplished using rules acquired withKNACQ, as well as handcrafted mapping rules forlexical items not directly associated with concepts orroles.4.2.
Where an Alternative Mechanism wasSelectedThough the domain model is central to the seman-tic processing of Janus, we have not used it in allpossible ways, but only where there seems to be clearbenefit.In telegraphic language, omitted prepositions, asin List the creation date file B, may arise.
Alter-natively, if the NLP system is part of a speech under-standing system, prepositions are among the mostdifficult words to recognize reliably.
Omitted preposi-tions could be treated with the same heuristic as im-plemented for interpreting the meaning of have, with,and of.
However, we have chosen a different in-ference technique for omitted prepositions.Though one could represent selection restrictionsdirectly in a taxonomy (as reported in \[7, 29\]), selec-tion restrictions in Janus are stored separately, in-dexed by the semantic class of the head word.
Webelieve it more likely that Janus will have the selec-tional pattern involving the omitted preposition, thanthat the omitted preposition corresponds to a usageunknown to Janus and inferable from the domainmodel relations.
Consequently, Janus applies theselection restrictions corresponding to all senses ofthe known head, to find what senses are consistentwith the proposed phrase and with what prepositions.In practice, this gives rise to far fewer possibilitiesthan considering all relations possible whether or notthey can be expressed with a preposition.4.3.
Proposals not yet Implemented (PossibleFuture Directions)In this section, we speculate regarding some pos-sible future work based on further exploiting thedomain model and hybrid representation systemdescribed in this paper.7Normally, if pattern (1) is valid, pattern (2) will be as well and viceversa.
Similarly, if pattern (4) is valid, pattern (5) will normally bealso.
As a result, the menu items are coupled by default (selecting(1) automatically selects (2) and vice versa), but this default may besimply overridden by selecting either and then decelecting the other.The most frequent examples where one does not have the couplingof these patterns is the preposition of.4.3.1.
An Approach to BridgingIt has long been observed \[11 \] that mention of oneclass of entities in a communication can bring into theforeground other classes of entities which can bereferred to though not explicitly introduced.
Theprocess of inferring the referent when such a refer-ence occurs has been called bridging \[12\].
Some ex-amples, taken from \[12\], appear below, where the ref-erence requiring bridging is underlined.1.
I looked into the room.
The ceilinq was veryhigh.2.
I walked into the room.
The chandelierssparkled brightly.3.
I went shopping yesterday.
The time I startedwas 3 PM.We believe a taxonomic domain model providesthe basis for an efficient algorithm for a broad class ofexamples of bridging, though we do not believe that itwill cover all cases.
If A is the class of a discourseentity arising from previous utterances, then any entityof class B, such that the NIKL domain model has arole from A to B (or from B to A) can be referred to bya definite NP.
This has not yet been integrated intothe Janus model of reference processing \[4\].4.3.2.
MetonymyUnstated relations in a communication must beinferred for full understanding of nominal compoundsand metonymy.
Those that can be anticipated can bebuilt into the lexicon; the challenge is to deal withthose that are novel to Janus.
Finding the omittedrelation in novel nominal compounds using ataxonomy has been explored and reported elsewhere\[13\].We propose treating many novel cases ofmetonymy in the following way:1.
Wherepatterns of metonymy can be identified,,such as using a description of a part to refer tothe whole (and other patterns identified in\[17\]), pro-compile chains of relations betweenclasses in the domain model, e.g., (PART-OFA B) where A and B are concepts.2.
In processing an input, when a selectionrestriction on an NP fails, record the failedrestriction with the partial interpretation forpossible future processing, after all attempts ata literal interpretation of the input have failed.3.
If no literal interpretation of the input can befound, look among the precompiled relationsof step 1 above for any class that could be sorelated to the class of the NP that appears.4.
If a relation is applicable, attempt to resumeinterpretation assuming the referent of the NPis in the related class.This has not been implemented, but offers an efficient199alternative to the abductive theorem-proving approachdescribed in \[16\].5.
Top-Leve l  Abst rac t ions  in the  N IKLTaxonomyWML and NIKL together provide a framework forrepresentation.
The highest concepts and relations inthe NIKL network provide a representational style inwhich more concrete constantsmust fit.
The firstabstraction structure used in Janus was the USC/ISI"upper structure" \[19\].
Because it seemed tied to sys-temic linguistics in critical ways, rather than to a moregeneral ontological style, we have replaced it withanother domain-independent set of concepts androles.
For any application domain, all domain-dependent constants must fit underneath the domain-independent structure.
The domain-independenttaxonomy consists of 70 concepts and 24 roles cur-rently, but certainly could be further expanded as oneattempts to further axiomatize and model notions use-ful in a broad class of application domains.During the evolution of Janus, we exploredwhether the domain-independent taxonomy could begreatly expanded by a broad set of primitives used inthe Longman Dictionary of Contemporary English\[18\] (LDOCE) to define domain-independent con-stants.
LDOCE defines approximately 56,000 wordsin terms of a base vocabulary of roughly 2,000 items, sWe estimate that about 20,000 concepts and rolesshould be defined corresponding to the 2,000 multi-way ambiguous words in the base vocabulary.
Theappeal, of course, is that if these basic notions weresufficient to define 56,000 words, they are generallyapplicable, providing a candidate for general-purposeprimitives.The course of action we followed was to build ataxonomy for all of the definitions of approximately200 items from the base vocabulary using the defini.tJons of those vocabulary items themselves in thedictionary.
In this attempt, we encountered the follow-ing difficulties:?
Definitions of the base vocabulary often in-volved circularity.?
Definitions included assertional informationand/or knowledge appropriate in defeasiblereasoning, which are not fully supported byNIKL.
For example, the first definition of cat is"a small four-legged animal with soft fur andsharp claws, often kept as a pet or for catchingmice or rats."?
Multiple views and/or vague definitions andusage arose in LDOCE.
For instance, thee'rhough the authors of LDOCE definitions try to stay within thebase vocabulary, exceptions do arise such as diagrams and propernouns, e.g., Catholic Church.second definition of cat (p. 150) is "an animalrelated to this such as the lion or tiger" (italicsadded).
Such a vague definition helped us littlein axiomatizing the notion.Thus, we decided that hand-crafted abstractionswould be needed to axiomatize by hand the LDOCEbase vocabulary if general-purpose primitives were toresult.
On the other hand, concrete concepts cor-responding to a lower level of abstraction seem ob-tainable from LDOCE.
In particular the LDOCE defini-tions of units of measurement for the avoirdupois andmetric systems were very useful.
A more detailedanalysis of our experience is presented in \[23\].6.
Re la ted  WorkSeveral hybrid representation schemes have beencreated, although only ours seems to have explored ahybrid of intensional ogic with an axiomatizable framesystem.
The most directly related efforts are the fol-lowing:?
KL-TWO\[31\], which marries a frame system(NIKL) with propositional logic (RUP\[20\]),Limited inference in propositional logic is thegoal of KL-'FWO.
Limited aspects of universal"quantification are achieved via allowing demonsin the inference process.
KL-TWO and its clas-sification algorithm \[27\] are at the heart of thelexicalization process of the text generator Pen-man \[28\].?
KRYPTON \[9\], which marries a frame systemwith first-order logic.
The frame system isdesigned to be less expressive than NIKL toallow rapid checking for disjointness of twoclass concepts in order to support efficientresolution theorem proving.
KRYPTON has notas yet been used in any natural languageprocessor.7.
Conc lus ionsOur conclusions regarding the hybrid represen-tation approach of intensional logic plus NIKL-basedaxioms to define constants are based on three kindsof efforts:?
Bringing Janus up on two large expert systemand data base applications within DARPA'sBattle Management Programs.
The combinedlexicon in the effort is approximately 7,000words (not counting morphological variations).?
The efforts synopsized in Section 5 towardsgeneral purpose domain notions.?
Experience in developing IRACQ and KNACQ,acquisition tools integrated with the domainmodel acquisition and maintenance facilityKREME,200First, a taxonomic language with a formal seman-tics can supplement a higher order logic in support ofefficient, limited inferences needed in a naturaJ lan-guage processor.
Based on our experience and thatof others, the axioms and limited inference algorithmscan be used for classes of anaphora resolution, inter-pretation of have, with, and of, finding omitted rela-tions in novel nominal compounds, applying selectionrestrictions, and mapping from the semantic represen-tation of the input to code to carry out the user's re-quest.Second, an intensional logic can supplement ataxonomic language in trying to define word sensesformally.
Our effort with LDOCE definitions showedhow little support is provided for defining word sensesin a taxonomic language.
A positive contribution ofintensional logic is the ability to distinguish universalstatements from generic ones from existential ones;definite sets from unspecified ones; and necessaryand sufficient information from assertional information,allowing for a representation closer to the semanticsof English.Third, the hybridization of axioms for taxonomicknowledge with an intensional logic does not allow usto represent all that we would like to, but does providea very effective engineering approach.
Out of 7,000lexical entries (not counting morphological variations),only 0.1% represented concepts inappropriate for theformal semantics of NIKL.The ability to pre-compile pre-specified, inferentialchains, to index them via concept name and rolename, and to employ taxonomic inheritance for or-ganizing knowledge were critical in selectingtaxor~omic representation to supplement WML.
Thesetechniques of pre-compiling pre-specified inferentialchains and of indexing them should also be applicableto other knowledge representations than taxonomies.At a later date, we hope to quantify the effec-tiveness of the semantic heuristics described in thispaper.AcknowledgementsThis research was supported by the AdvancedResearch Projects Agency of the Department ofDefense and was monitored by ONR under ContractsN00014-85-C-0079 and N00014-85-C-0016.
Theviews and conclusions contained in this document arethose of the author and should not be interpreted asnecessarily representing the official policies, either ex-pressed or implied, of the Defense AdvancedResearch Projects Agency or the U.S. Government.This brief report represents a total team effort.Significant contributions were made by DamarisAyuso, Rusty Bobrow, Ira Haimowitz, Erhard Hinrichs,Thomas Reinhardt, Remko Scha, David Stallard, andCynthia Whipple.
We also wish to acknowledge manydiscussions with William Mann and NormanSondheimer in the early phases of the project.References1.
Abrett, G. and Burstein, M. ~l'he KREMEKnowledge Editing Environment'.
/nt.J.
Man-Machine Studies 27 (1987), 103-126.2.
Ayuso Planes, D. The Logical Interpretation ofNoun Compounds.
Master Th., Massachusetts In-stitute of Technology,June 1985.3.
Ayuso, D.M., Shaked, V., and Weischedel, R.M.An Environment for Acquiring Semantic Information.Proceedings of the 25th Annual Meeting of the As-sociation for Computational Linguistics, ACL, 1987,pp.
32-40.4.
Ayuso, Damaris.
Discourse Entities in Janus.Proceedings of the 27th Annual Meeting of the As-sociation for Computational Linguistics, 1989.5.
BBN Systems and Technologies Corp. A Guide toIRUS-II Application Development in the FCCBMP.BBN Report 6859, BBN Systems and TechnologiesCorp., Cambridge, MA, 1988.6.
Bobrow, R. and Webber, B. PSI-KLONE: Parsingand Semantic Interpretation in the BBN Natural Lan-guage Understanding System.
Proceedings of the1980 Conference of the Canadian Society for Com-putational Studies of Intelligence, CSCSVSCEIO,May, 1980.7.
Bobrow, R. and Webber, B.
Knowledge Represen-tation for Syntactic/Semantic Processing.
Proceed-ings of the National Conference on Artificial Intel-ligence, AAAI, August, 1980.8.
Brachman, R.J. and Schmolze, J.G.
"An Overviewof the KL-ONE Knowledge Representation System".Cognitive Science 9, 2 (April 1985).9.
Brachman, R.J., Gilbert, V.P., and Levesque, H.J.An Essential Hybrid Reasoning System: Knowledgeand Symbol Level Accounts of Krypton.
Proceedingsof UCAI85, International Joint Conferences on Artifi-cial Intelligence, Inc., Los Angeles, CA, August, 1985,pp.
532-539.10.
Cad.son, G.. Reference to Kinds in English.
Gar-land Press, New York, 1979.11.
Chafe, W. Discourse Structure and HumanKnowledge.
In Language Comprehension and theAcquisition of Knowledge, Winston and Sons,Washington, 1972.12.
Clark, H.H.
Bridging.
Theoretical Issues inNatural Language Processing, 1975, pp.
169-174.13.
Finin, T.W.
The Semantic Interpretation ofNominal Compounds.
Proceedings of The First An-nual National Conference on Artificial Intelligence,201The American Association for Artificial Intelligence,August, 1980, pp.
310-312.14.
Freeman, M. The QUA Link.
Proceedings of the1981 KL-ONE Workshop, Bolt Beranek and NewmanInc., 1982, pp.
55-65.15.
Hinrichs, E.W., Ayuso, D.M., and Scha, R. TheSyntax and Semantics of the JANUS Semantic Inter-pretation Language.
In Research and Development inNatural Language Understanding as Part of theStrategic Computing Program, Annual TechnicalReport December 1985.
December 1986,BBN Laboratories, Report No.
6522, 1987, pp.
27-31.16.
Hobbs, et.
al.
Interpretation as Abduction.Proceedings of the 26th Annual Meeting of the As-sociation for Computational Linguistics, 1988, pp.95-103.17.
Lakoff, G. and Johnson, M.. Metaphors We LiveBy.
The University of Chicago Press, Chicago, 1980.18.
Longman Dictionary of Contemporary English.Essex, England, 1987.19.
Mann, W.C., Arens, Y., Matthiessen, C.,Naberschnig, S., and Sondheimer, N.K.
JanusAbstraction Structure -- Draft 2.
USC/InformationSciences Institute, 1985.20.
David A. McAIlester.
Reasoning Utility PackageUser's Manual.
AI Memo 667, Massachusetts In-stitute of Technology, Artificial Intelligence Laboratory,April, 1982.21.
Montague, Richard.
The Proper Treatment ofQuantification in Ordinary English.
In Approaches toNatural Language, J. Hintikka, J. Moravcsik andP.
Suppes, Eds., Reidel, Dordrecht, 1973, pp.221-242.22.
Moser, M.G.
An Overview of NIKL, the New Im-plementation of KL-ONE.
In Research in KnowledgeRepresentation for NaturaJ Language Understanding -AnnuaJ Report, I September 1982 - 31 August 1983,Sidner, C. L., et al, Eds., BBN Laboratories ReportNo.
5421, 1983, pp.
7-26.23.
Reinhardt, T. and Whipple, C. Summary of Con-clusions from the Longman's Taxonomy Experiment.In Goodman, B., Ed.,, BBN Systems and Tech-nologies Corporation, Cambridge, MA, 1988, pp..24.
Rich, C. Knowledge Representation languagesand the Predicate Calculus: How to Have Your Cakeand Eat It Too.
Proceedings of the Second NationalConference on Artificial Intelligence, AAAI, August,1982, pp.
193-196.25.
Scha, R. and Stallard, D. Multi-level Plurals andDistributivity.
26th Annual Meeting of the Associationfor Computational Linguistics, Association for Com-putational Linguistics, June, 1988, pp.
17-24.26.
Schmolze, J. G., and Israel, D.J.
KL-ONE:Semantics and Classification.
In Research inKnowledge Representation for Natural Language Un-derstanding - Annual Report, 1 September 1982 - 31August 1983, Sidner, C.L., et al, Eds., BBNLaboratories Report No.
5421, 1983, pp.
27-39.27.
Schmolze, J.G., Lipkis, T.A.
Classification in theKL-ONE Knowledge Representation System.Proceedings of the Eighth International Joint Con-ference on Artificial Intelligence, 1983.28.
Sondheimer, N. K. and Nebel, B.
A Logical-formand Knowledge-base Design for Natural LanguageGeneration.
Proceedings AAAI-86 Fifth National Con-ference on Artificial Intelligence, The American As-sociation for Artificial Intelligence, Los Altos, CA, Aug,1986, pp.
612-618.29.
Sondheimer, N.K., Weischedel, R.M., andBobrow, R.J. Semantic Interpretation Using KL-ONE.Proceedings of COLING-84 and the 22nd AnnualMeeting of the Association for Computational Linguis-tics, Association for Computational Linguistics, Stan-ford, CA, July, 1984, pp.
101-107.30.
Stallard, David.
Answering Questions Posed inan Intensional Logic: A Multilevel Semantics Ap-proach.
In Research and Development in NaturalLanguage Understanding as Part of the StrategicComputing Program, R. Weischedel, D.Ayuso,A.
Haas, E. Hinrichs, R. Scha, V. Shaked, D.
Stallard,Eds., BBN Laboratories, Cambridge, Mass., 1987, ch.4, pp.
35-47.
Report No.
6522.31.
Vilain, M. The Restricted Language Architectureof a Hybrid Representation System.
Proceedings ofIJCAI85, International Joint Conferences on ArtificialIntelligence, Inc., Los Angeles, CA, August, 1985, pp.547-551.32.
Weischedel, R.M.
"Knowledge Representationand Natural Language Processing".
Proceedings ofthe/EEE 74, 7 (July 1986), 905-920.33.
Weischedel, R.M., Bobrow, R., Ayuso, D.M., andRamshaw, L. Portability in the Janus Natural Lan-guage Interface.
Notebook of Speech and NaturalLanguage Workshop, 1989.
To be reprinted by Mor-gan Kaufmann Publishers.202
