LEXICAL ACCESS IN CONNECTED SPEECH RECOGNITIONTed BriscoeComputer LaboratoryUniversity of CambridgeCambridge, CB2 3QG, UK.ABSTRACTThis paper addresses two issues concerning lexicalaccess in connected speech recognition: 1) the nature ofthe pre-lexical representation used to initiate lexical ook-up 2) the points at which lexical ook-up is triggered offthis representation.
The results of an experiment arereported which was designed to evaluate a number ofaccess trategies proposed in the literature in conjunctionwith several plausible pre-lexical representations of thespeech input.
The experiment also extends previous workby utilising a dictionary database containing a realisticrather than illustrative English vocabulary.THEORETICAL BACKGROUNDIn most recent work on the process of wordrecognition during comprehe~ion of connected speech(either by human or machine) a distinction is madebetween lexical access and-word recognition (eg.Marslen-Wilsun & Welsh, 1978; Klan, 1979).
Lexlcalaccess is the process by which contact is made with thelexicon on the basis of an initial aconstlo-phonetlc orphonological representation of some portion of thespeech input.
The result of lexical sccess is a cohort ofpotential word candidates which are compatible with thisinitial analysis.
(The term cohort is used de__ccriptively inthis paper and does not represent any commitment to theperticular account of lexical access end word recognitionprovided by any version of the cohort theory (e.g.Marslen-Wilsun, 1987).)
Most theories assume that thecandidates in this cohort are successively whittled downboth on the basis of further acoustic-phonetic orphonological information, as more of the speech inputbecomes available, end on the basis of the candidates'compatibility with the linguistic and extralingulstiecontext of utterance.
When only one candidate remains,word recognition is said to have taken place.Most psycholinguistlc work in this area has focussedon the process of word recognition after a cohort ofcandidates has been selected, emphasising the role offurther lexical or 'higher-level' linguistic onstraints suchas word frequency, lexical semantic relations, orsyntactic and semantic ongruity of candidates with thelinguistic ontext (e.g.
Bradley & Forster, 1987; Marslen-Wilson & Welsh.
1978).
The few explicit and well-developed models of lexical access and word recognitionin continuous speech (e.g.
TRACE, McCleliand &Elman, 1986) have small and tmrealistic lexicons of.
atmost, a few hundred words and ignore phonologicalprocesses which occur in fluent speech.
Therefore, theytend to ove~.stlmatz the amount and reliability, ofacoustic information which can be directly extractedfrom the speech signal (either by human or machine) andmake unrealistic and overly-optimistic assumptionsconcerning the size and diversity of candidates in atypical cohort.
This, in turn, casts doubt on the realefficacy of the putative mechanisms which are intendedto select he correct word from the cohort.The bulk of engineering systems for speechrecognition have finessed the issues of lexical access andword recognition by attempting to map directly from theacoustic signal to candidate words by pairing words withacoustic representations of the canonical pronunciation ofthe word in the lexicon and employing pattern-matching,best-fit techniques to select the most likely candidate(e.g.
Sakoe & Chiba, 1971).
However, these techniqueshave only proved effective for isolated word recognitionof small vocabularies with the system trained to anindividual speaker, as, for example, Zue & Huuonlocher(1983) argue.
Furthermore, any direct access model ofthis type which does not incorporate a pre-lexicalsymbolic representation f the input will have di?ficultycapturing many rule-governed phonological processeswhich affect the ~onunciation of words in fluent speech.since these processes can only be chazacteris~adequately in terms of operations on a symbolic,phonological representation of the speech input (e.g.Church.
1987; Frazier, 1987; Wiese, 1986).The research reported here forms part of an ongoingprogramme to develop a computationally explicit accountof lexical access and word recognition in connecteds1~e-~_~, which is at least informed by experimentalresults concerning the psychological processes andmechanisms which underlie this task.
To guide research.we make use of a substantial lexical database of Englishderived from machine-readable versions of the LongmanDictionary of Contonporary English (see Boguracv etaL, 1987; Boguraev & Briscoe, 1989) and of the MedicalResearch Council's psycholinguistic database (Wilson,1988), which incorporates word frequency information.This specialised atabase system provides flexible andpowerful querying facilities into a database ofapproximately 30,000 English word forms (with 60,000separate entries).
The querying facilities can be used toexplore the lexical structure of English and simulatedifferent approaches to lexical access and wordrecognition.
Previous work in this area has often reliedon small illustrative lexicons which tends to lead tooverestimation of the effectiveness of variousapproaches.There are two broad questions to ask concerning theprocess of lexical access.
Firstly, what is the nature ofthe initial representation which makes contact with thelexicon?
Secondly, at what points during the (continuous)analysis of the speech signal is lexical look-up triggered?84We can illustrate the import of these questions byconsidering an example like (1) (modified from Klan viaChurch.
1987).
(1)a) Did you hit it to Tom?b) \[dlj~'~dI?mum~\](Where ' I '  represents a high, front vowel, 'E' schwa, 'd'a flapped or neutralised stop, and '?'
a glottal stop.)
Thephonetic trmmcriptlon of one possible utterance of (la) in(lb) demonstrates some of the problems involved in any'dL,~ct' mapping from the speech input to lexical enu'iesnot mediated by the application of phonological rules.For example, the palatalisation f f ina l /d /before/y / in/did/means that any attempt to relate that portion of theW'~e?___h input to the lexicel entry for d/d is h'kely to fail.Sitrfi/ar points can be made about the flapping andglottalisadon of the B/phonemes in/hit/and/It/ ,  and thevowel reductions to schwa.
In addition.
(1) illustrates thewen-known point that there are no 100% reliablephonetic or phonological cues to word boundaries inconnected speech.
Without further phonological andlexical analysis there is no indication in a transcrilxlonlike (lb) of where words begin or end; for example, howdoes the lexical access ystem distinguish word.initial/I/in/17/fzom word-inlernal /I/ in /hid/?In this paper, I shall argue for a model which splitsthe lexical access process into a pre-lexical phonologicalparsing stage and then a lexicel enn7 retrieval stage.
Themodel is simil~ to that of Church (1987), however Iargue, firstly, that the initial phonological representationrecovered from the speech input is more variable andoften less detailed than that assumed by Church and,secondly, that the lexical entry retrieval stage is moredirected and ~ .
in order to ~ce  thenumber of spurious lexical enuies accessed and tocernp~z~te for likely indetenninacies in the initialrepresentation.THE PRE-LEXICALPHONOLOGICAL REPRESENTATIONSeveral researchers have argued that phonologicalprocesses, uch as the palatallsation f /d / in  (1), createproblems for the word recognition sysmn because they'distort' the phonological form of the word.
Church(1987) and Frazier (1987) argue persuasively that, farfxom creating problems, such phonological processesprovide imporu~ clues to the correct syllabicsegmentation of the input and thus, to the locadon ofword bounderies.
However, this argument only goesthrough on ~ assump6on that quire derailed 'narrow'phonetic information is recovered from the signal, suchas aspiration of M in/rE/ and /tam/ in (1) in order mrecoguise tim preceding syllable botmdsrles.
It is only in.terms of this represer~,tion that phonological processesc~m be recoguised and their effects 'undone' in order toallow correct matching of the input against he canonicalphonological represenU~ons contained in lexical entries.Other researchers (e.g.
Shipman & Zne, 1982)haveargued (in the context of isolated word recogu/tion) thatthe initial representation which contacts the lexiconshould be a broad mmmer-class transcription of thestressed syllables in the speech signal.
The evidence infavot~ of this approach is, firstly, that extraction of moredetailed information is nouniously diffic~dt and,secondly, that a broad transcription of this type appearsto be vexy effective in partit/oning the English lexiconinto small cohom.
For example, Huttenlocher (1985)reports an average cohort size of 21 words for a 20,000word lexicon using a six-camgory manner of articulationtranscription scheme (employing the categories: Stop,Strong-Fricative, Weak-Fricative, Nasal, Glide-Liquid,and Vowel).This claim suggests that the English lexicon isfunctionally organised to favour a system which initiateslex/cal access from a broad manner class pre-lexicalrepresentation, because most of the discriminatoryiv.formation between different words is concentra~i inthe manner articulation of stressed syllables.
Elsewhere,we have argued that these ideas are mis|-~d;_nglypresented and that there is, in fact, no significantadvantage for manner information in suessed syllables(e.g.
Carter et al, 1987; Caner, 1987, 1989).
We foundthat there is no advantage per s~ to a manner classanalysis of stressed syllables, since a similar malysis ofunstressed syllables is as discriminatory and yields asgood a partitioning of the English lexicon.
However,concantrating on a full phonemic malysis of stressedsyllables provides about 10% more information them asimiler analysis of tmstressed syllables.
This researchsuggests, then, that the pre-lexical represenw.ion used toinitiate lexical access can only afford m concentramexclusively on stressed syllables ff these are analysed (atleast) phonemically.
None of these studies consider theextracud~ility of the classifications fxom speech inputhowever, whilst there is a g~m~ral belief that it is easierto extract infonnation from stressed portions of thesignal, the~ is little reason to believe that mariner classinfm'mation is, in general, more or less accessible thanother phonologically relevant features.A second argument which can be made against heuse of broad represmUstions to contact he lexicon (inthe context of conn~ speech) is that suchrepresentations will not support he phonological parsingn~essary to 'undo" such processes as palatallsation.
Forexample, in (1) the f inal /d/of  d/d will be realised as/ j /and camgurised as a sarong-fricative followed by liquid-glide using the proposed broad manner ~ransoripfion.Therefore.
palamlisadon will need m be recoguisedbefore the required stop-vowel-stop represenr~ion can berecovered and used to initiate lexical access.
However,applying such phonological rules in a constrained anduseful manner requires a more detailed inputtranscription.
Palamllsation inustra~es this point verycle~ly; not all sequences which will be transcribed asstrong-fl'lcative followed by liquid-glide can undergo thisprocess by any means (e.g.
/81/), but there will be noway of preventing the rule oven-applying in manyinappropriate conmxts and thus presumably leading tothe get.ration of many spurious word candidates.85A third argument against the use of exclusivelybroad representations is that these representations willnot support the effective recognition of syllable-boundaries and some word-boundaries on the basis ofphonotactic and other phonological sequencingconstraints.
For example, Church (1987) proposes aninitial syllabification of the input as a prerequisite tol~dcal access, but his sylla "bificafion of the speech inputexploits phonotactic constraints and relies on theextraction of allophonic features, such as aspiration, toguide this process.
Similarly, Harringmn et al (1988)argue that approximately 45% of word boundaries are, inprinciple, recognisable because they occur in phonemesequences which are rare or forbidden word-internally.However, exploitation of these English phonologicalconstraints would be considerably impaired if the pre-lexical representation f the input is restricted to a broadclassification.h might seem self-evident that people are able torecognise phonemes in speech, but in fact thepsychological evidence suggests that this ability ismediated by the output of the word recognition processrather than being an essential prerequisite to its success.Phoneme-monimrin 8 experiments, in which subjectslisten for specified phonemes in speech, are sensitive tolexical effects such as word frequency, semmficassociation, and so forth (see Cutler et al, 1987 for asummary of the expemnen~ literature and putativeexplmation of the effect), suggesting that informationconcemm 8 at least some of the phonetic contain of aword is not available until after the word is recoguised.Thus, people's ability to recognise phonemes tells usvery little about the nann~ of the representation used toinitiate lexical access.
Better (but still indireoO evidencecomes from mispronunciation monitoring and phonemeconfusion experiments (Cole, 1973; Miller & Nicely,1955; Sheperd, 1972) which suggest hat tlsteners eerel ikdy to confuse or ~ phonemes along thedimensions predicted by distinctive feature theory.
Moste~rcn result in reporting phonemes which differ in onlyone feanu~ from the target, This result suggests thatlistenexs are actively considering detailed phoneticinformation along a munber of dimemions (rather thansimply, say, manner of articulation).Theoretical and experimental considerations suggestthen that, regardless of the current capabilities ofautomated acoustic-phonetic fxont-ends, sysmms must bedeveloped to extract as phonetically detailed a pm-lexicalphonological represemation as possible.
Without such arepresentation, phonological processes cannot beeffectively recoguL~i and compensated for in the wordrecognition process and the 'extra' information conveyedin stressed syllables cannot be exploited.
Nevertheless influent connected speech, unstressed syllables oftenundergo phonological processes which render themhighly indemmlinam; for example, the vowel reductionsin (I).
Therefore, it is implausible m assume that my(human or machine) front-end will always output anaccurate narrow phonetic, phonemic of perhaps evenbroad (say, manner class) mmscription of the speechinput.
For this reason, fur~er processes involved inlexical access will need to function effectively despimthe very variable quality of information extracted fromthe speech signal.This last point creates a serious difficulty for thedesign of effective phonological parsers.
Church (1987),for example, allows himself the idealisation of anaccurate 'nsrmw' phonetic transcription.
It remains to bedemonstramd that any parsing mclmiques developed fordetermlnam symbolic input will transfer effectively toreal speech input (and such a test may have to awaitconsiderably better automated front-ends).
For thepurposes of the next section.
I assume that some suchaccount of phonological parsing can be developed andthat the pre-lexical representation used to initiate lexicalaccess is one in which phonological processes have been'undone' in order to consuuct a representation close tothe canonical (phonemic) representation of a word'spronunciation.
However, I do not assume that thisrepresentation will necessarily be accuram to the samedegree of detail throughout the input.LEXICAL ACCESS STRATEGIESAny theory of word recognition must provide amechanism for the segmentation of connected speechinto words.
In effect, the theory must explain how theprocess of lexical access is triggered at appropriatepoints in the speech signal in the absence of completelyreliable phonetic/phonological ues to word boundaries.The various theories of lexical access and wordrecognition in conneomd speech propose mechanismswhich appear to cover the full specumm of logicalpossibilities.
Klan (1979) suggests that lexicai access istriggered off each successive spectral frame derived fromthe signal (i.e.
approximately every 5 msecs.
),McClelland & Elman (1986) suggest each successivephoneme, Church (1987) suggests each syllable onset,Grosjean & Gee (1987) suggest each stressed syllableonset, aud Curler & Norris (1985) suggest eachpmsodiceliy smmg syllable onset.
Finally, Maralan-Wilson & Welsh (1978) suggest that segmentation f thespeech input and recognition of word boundaries is anindivisible process in which the endpoint of the previousword defines the point at which lexical access isIriggered again.Some of these access strategies have been evaluatedwith respect to three input transcriptions (which areplausible candidates for the pre-lexical represen~uionthe basis of the work discussed in the previous ection)in the context of a realistic sized lexicon.
Theexperiment involved one sentence taken from a readingof the 'Rainbow passage' which had been analysed byseveral phoneticians for independent purposes.
Thissentence is reproduced in (2a) with the syllables whichwere judged to be strong by the phoneticians underlined.
(2)a) The rainbow is a divis.._ion of whim light intomany beautiful col.__oursb) WF-V  reln bEu V-SF V S-V vI SF-V-N V-SFwalt Idt  V-N S-V men V bju: S-V WF-V-G K^IV-SF86This utterance was transcribed: 1) fine class, usingphonemic U-ensoription throughout; 2) mid class, usingphonemic transcription of strong syllables and a six-category intoner of articulation tranm'ipdon of weaksyllables; 3) broad class, as mid class but suppressingvoicing disK, ations in the strong syllable transcriptions.
(2b) gives the mid class transcription of the utterance.
Inthis transcription, phonemes are represented in a mannercompatible with the scheme employed in the LongmanDictionary of Contonporary English and the mannerclass categories in capitals are Stop, Strong-Fricative,Weak-Fricative, Nasal, Glide-liquid, end Vowel as inHunmlocher (1982) end elsewhe=e.
The terms, fine, midend broad, for each transcription scheme are intendedpurely descriptively and are not necessarily related toother uses of these terms in the literature.
Each of theschemes is intended to represent a possible behaviour ofan acoustic-phonetic front-end.
The less determinatetransoriptions can be viewed either as the result oftranscription errors and indatermlnacies or as the outputof a less ambitious front-end design.
The definition ofsyllable boundary employed is, of necessity, that builtinto the syllable parser which acts as the interface to thedictionary d~t-_bese (e.g.
Carter, 1989).
The parsersyllabifies phonemic Iranscriptions according to thephonotactiz constraints given in Ghnson (1980) emdutilis~ the maximal onset principle (Selkirk, 1978)where this leads to ambiguity.Each of the three transcriptions was used as aputative pre-lexical representation to test some of thedifferent access slrategies, which were used to initiatelexieal look-up into the dictionary database.
The fouraccess strategies which were tested were: 1) phoneme,using each mr..eessive phoneme to trigger an accessamnnp~ 2) word.
using the offset of the previous(correct) word in the input to control access attempts; 3)syllable, attempting look-up at each syllable boundary; 4)strong syllable, attemptin 8 look-up at earh strongsyllable boundary.
That is, the first smuegy assumes aword may begin at any p*'umeme boendary, the secondthat a word may only begin, at tlm end of the previousone, the third that a word may begin at any syllableboundary, end the fourth that a word may begin at aseron 8 syllable boundary.The strong syllable strategy uses a separate look-upprocess for typically urmtreimad grammatical, cor, ad-clusvocabulary end allows the possibility of extending look-up 'backwards' over one preceding weak syllable.
It wasassumed, for the purposes of the experiment, hat look-up off weak syllables would be restricted to closed-classvocabulary, would not extend into a strong syllable, andthat this process would precede attempts to incorporate aweak syllable *backwards' into an open-class word.The direct access approach was not consideredbecause of its implausibility in the light of the discussionin the previous section.
The stressed syllable account isv=y slmilar to the strong syllable approach, but giventhe problem of stress hift in fluent speech, a formulationin unms of strong syllables, which are defined in termsof the absence of vowel reduction, is preferable.Work by Marslen-Wilson and his colleagues (e.g.Marslen-Wilson & Warren.
1987) suggests that, whateveraccess strategy is used, there is no delay in theavailability of information derived fi'om the speech signalto furth= select from the cohort of word candidates.
Thissuggests that s model in which units (say syllables) ofthe pre-lexical representation are 'pre-packaged' and thenused to wlgser a look-up attempt are implausible.
Rathe~the look-up process must involve the continuousintegration of information from the pre-lexicalrepresentation immediately it becomes available.
Thusthe question of access strategy concerns only the pointsat which this look-up process is initiated.In order to simulate the continuous aspect of lexlcelaccess using the dictionary database, d~:__M3_ase look-upqueries for each strategy were initiated using the twophonemes/segments Horn the trigger point and then againwith three phonemes/segmonts andso on until no hu~erEnglish words in the database were compatible with thelook-up query (except for closed-class access with thestrong syllable strategy where a strong syllable boundaryterminated the sequence of accesses).
The size of theresulting cohorts was measured for each successivelylarger query;, for example, using a fine class transcriptionand triggering access from the /r/ of rainbow yields aninitial cohort of 89 cmdidams compatible with/re//.
Thiscohort drops to 12 words when /n/ is added and to 1word when /b/ is also included and finally goes to 0when the vowel of /s  is -dO,'d= Each sequence of queriesof this type which all begin at the same point in thesignal will be refened to as an access path.
Thediffer, tee between the access trategies i mostly in thenumber of distinct access paths they generate.Simulating access attempts using the dictionaryd~tnbasc involves generating database queries consistingof partial phonological representatious which return sereof words and enlries which satisfy the query.
Forexample, Figure 1 relxesents the query corresponding tothe complete broad-class trenscription of appoint.
Thisqu=y matches 37 word forms in the database.\[ \[pron\[nsylls 2 \]\[el\[peak ?\]\[-.2\ [etreee 2\]\ [onzet (OR b d g k p t)\]\[peak ?\]\[coda (OR m n N)(OR b d g k p t)\]\]\]\]Figure 1 - Da'-bue query for 'aR?omt'.The ex~riment involved 8enera~8 s~uen~ ofqueries of this type and recording the number of wordsfound in the database which matched each query.
Figure2 shows the partial word lattice for the mid classtrauscription of th, e ra/nbow /s.
using the strong syllableaccess strategy.
In this lattice access paths involvingr~o'~sively arger portions of the signal are illustrated.The m=nber under each access attempt represents thesize of the set of words whose phonology is compatible87with the query.
Lines preceded by an arrow indicate aquery which forms part of an access path, adding afurther segment to the query above it.Th o14r a i  n b ow i s a- - - I  - - - I  --I  -I89 59 5 8 ">- I  >- - - I12 3>- - - I  >- I1 o>- - I  I1 0>- - - IoFisum 2 - Partial Word Lmi?~The corresponding complete word lattice for thesame portion of input using a mid-class tr~cription andthe strong syllable strategy is shown in Figure 3.
In thislattice, only words whose complete phonology iscompatible with the input are shown.Th e r a i  n b ow i s aI - - I  I - - I  I - - I  I - I  I14 1 2 5 8I .
.
.
.
I3I IIr~re 3 - Complete WordThe different strategies ware evaluated relative to the3 trensc6ption schemes by summing the total number ofpartial words matched for the test scmtence under eachstrategy and trans=ipdon a d also by looking at the totalnumber of complete words matched.RESULTSTable 1 below gives a selection of the moreimportant results for each strategy by transcriptionscheme for the test umtence in (2).
Column 1 shows thetotal number of access paths initiated for the testsentence under each strategy.
Columns 2 to 6 shows thenumber of words in all the cohorts produced by theparticular access strategy for the test sentence after 2 to6 phonemes/segments of the transcription have beenincorporated into each access path.
Column 7 shows thetotal number of words which achieve a complete matchduring the application of the particular access strategy tothe test sentence.Table 1 provides m index of the efficiency of eachaccess strategy in terms of the overall number ofcandidate words which appear in cohorts and also theoverall number of words which receive a full match forthe test sentence.
In addition, the relative performance ofeach strategy as the ~pt ion  scheme becomes lessdeterminate is clear.The test sentence contains 12 words, 20 syllables,end 45 phonemes; for the purposes of this experimentthe word a in the test sentence does not trigger a look-up attempt with the word strategy because cohort sizeswere only recorded for sequences of two or morephonemes/segments.
A suming a fine class trmls=iptionserving as lxe-lexical input, the phoneme strategyproduces 41 full matches as compared to 20 for thestrong syllable strategy.
This demonstrates that the strongsyllable strategy is more effective at ruling out spuriousword candidates for the test sentence.
Furthermore, thetotal number of candidates considered using the phonemestrategy is 1544 (after 2 phonemes/segments) but only720 for the strong syllable strategy, again indicafng thegreater effectiveness of the lanef strategy.
When weA _c?~___- AccessStrategy PathsFine ClassPhoneme 45Word 11Syllable 20StrongS 17Mld ClassWord 11Synable 20StrongS 17Broad ClassSyllable 20$trongS 17No.
of words after x segments:2 3 41544 251 46719 193 321090 210 36720 105 244701 1738 802 5412995 3221 1530 103760 232 89 1313744 3407 1591 1401170 228 100 18Table IComplete5 6 Matches6 2 415 2 256 2 285 2 208 2499 3804 809 11788consider the less determinate tran.scriptlons it becomeseven clearer that only the strung syllable slrategyremains reasonably effective and does not result in ama~ive increase in the rmmber of spurious candidatesaccessed and fully matched.
(The phonmne strategyresets are not reporud for mid end broad classtramcrlptlons because the cohort sizes were too large forthe database query facilities to cope reliably.
)The word candidates recovered using the phonemestrategy with a fine class transcription i clude 10 fullmatches resulting from accesses triggered at non-syllabicboundaries; for example arraign is found using thesecond phoneme of the and rain.
This problem becomesconsiderably worse when moving to a less determinatetranscription, illustrating very clearly the undesirableconsequences of ignoring the basic linguistio constraintthat word boundaries occur at syllable boundaries.Systems uch as TRACE (McClelland & Elman.
1986)which use this strategy appear to compensate by using aglobal best-fit evaluation metric for the entire utterancewhich s~rongly disfavours 'unattached' input.
However.these models still make the implausible claim thatcandid~_!e~ llke arraign will be highly-activated by thespeech input.The results concerning the word based strategypresume that it is possible to determinately recognise theendpuint of the preceding word.
This essmnption isbased on the Cohort theory claim (e.g.
Marslan-Wilsun& Welsh, 1978) that words can be recogulsed beforetheir acoustic offset, using syntactic and semanticexpectations to filter the cohort.
This claim has beenchallenged experimentally b  Grosjean (1985) and Bardet al (1988) who demcmstrate hat many monosyllabicwords in context are not recognised until after theiracoustic offset.
The experiment reported here supportsthis expesimental result because ven with the fine classtranscription there are 5 word candM~t_~ which extendbeyond the correct word boundary end 11 full matcheswhich end before the correct boundary.
With the midclam tran.un'iption, ~e~ numbers rise to 849 end 57.respectively.
It seems implausible that expectation-basedcorm~ainm could be powerful enough to correcdy selecta unique candidate before its acoustic offset in allcontexts.
Therefore, the results for the word strategyreported here are overly-optim.isdc, because in order toguarantee that the correct sequence of words are in thecohorts recovered from the input, a lexical access ystembased on the word strategy would need to operate non-demrministically; that is, it would need to considerseveral pumndal word boundaries in most cases.Therefore, the results for a practicM syr.em based on Otisapproach am likely to be significantly worse.The syllable strategy is effective under theassumption of ?
determinate and accurate phonemic pre-lexieal representation, but once we abandon thisidealisation, the effectiveness of this strategy declines~trply.
Under the plaus~le assumption that the pre-lexical input reprmemation is likely to be leastaccurate/deanminate for tmslressed/weak syllables, thesw~ng syllable strategy is far more robust.
This is adirect consequence of triggering look-up attempts off themore determinate parts of the pre-lexical representation.Further theoretical evidence in support of the strongsyllable strategy is provided by Cutler & Carter (1987)who demmmtrate hat a listener is six times more likelyto e~mter  a word with a prosodically strong initialsyllable than one with a weak initial syllable whenlistening to English speech.
Experimental evidence isprovided by Cutler & Norris (1988) who report resultswhich suggest hat listeners tend to treat strong, but notweak, syllables as appropriate points at which toundertake pre-lexical segmentation f the speech input.The architecture of a lexical access system based onthe syllable strategy can be quite simple in terms of theorganisation of the lexicon and its access routines.
It isonly n~essary to index the lexicon by syllable types(Church, 1987).
By contrast, the strong syllable strategyrequires a separate closed.class word lexicon end accesssystem, indexing of the open-class vocabulary by strongsyllable and a more complex matching procedure capableof inher ing  preceding weak syllables for words suchas d/v/s/on.
Nevertheless, the experimental resultsreported here suggest that the extra complexity iswarranted because the resulting system will beconsiderably more robust in the face of inacct~rate orindeterminate input concerning the nature of the weaksyllables in the input utterance.CONCLUSIONThe experiment reported above suggests that thestrong syllable access strategy will provide the mosteffective technique for producing minimal cohortsgu~anteed to contain the correct word candidate from apre-lexical phonological representation which may bepartly inaccurate or indeterminate.
Further work to beundertaken i cludes the rerunning of the experiment withfurther input transcriptions containing pseudo-randomtypical phoneme perception errors and the inclusion offurther test sentences designed to yield a 'phonetically-balanced' corpus.
In addition, the relative internaldlscriminability (in tmmm of further phonological and'higher-lever syntactic and semantic onstraims) of theword candidates in the varying cohorts generated withthe different strategies should be exandned.The importance of mai~ng use of a dictionarydatabase with a realistic vocabulary size in order toevaluate proposals concerning lexlcal access and wordrecognition systems is hlghligh~d by the results of thisexperiment, which demonstrate the theoreticalimplausibility of many of the proposals in the literaturewhea we consider the consequences in a simulationinvolving more than a few hundred illustrative words.89ACKNOWLEDGEMENTSI would like to thank Longman Group Ltd. formaking the typesetting tape of the Longmcat Dictionaryof Contemporary English available to m for researchpurposes.
Part of the work reported here was supportedby SERC gram GR/D/4217.
I also thank Anne Cuder,Francis Nolan and Tun Sholicar for useful comments andadvice.
All erroPs remain my own.REFERENCESBard, E., Shillcock, R. & Altmann, G. (1988).
Therecognition of words after their acoustic offsets inspontaneous peech: effects of subsequent context.Perception & Psychophysic$, 44, 395-408.Boguraev, B.
& Briscoe, E. (1989).
ComputationalLexicography for Natural Language Processing.Longman Limited, London.Boguraev, B., Carter, D. & Briscoe, E. (1987).
A multi-purpose interface to an on-line dictionary.
3rdConference of Eur.
Assoc.
for Computational Linguistics,Copenhagen.Bradley, D. & Forster, K. (1987).
A reader's view oflisteffmg.
Cognition, 25, 103-34.Carter, D. (1987).
An information-theoretic analysis ofphonetic dictionary access.
Computer Speech andLanguage, 2, 1-11.Carter, D., Boguraev, B.
& BrL~oe, E. (1987).
LexicalsUess and phonzfiz information: which szSments aremost informative.
Proc.
of ?ur.
Conference on SpeechTechnology, Edinhoxgh.Carter, D. (1989).
LIX)CE and speech recognition.
InBoguraev & Briscoo (1989) pp.
135-52.Church, K. (1987).
Phonological parsing and lexicalmuievaL Cognition, 25, 53-69.Cole, R. (1973).
Listening for mispronunciations: ameasure of what we hear during speech.
Perception &Psychophysic~, 1, 153-6.Cutler, A.
& Carter, D. (1987).
The Ira:dominance ofsmm 8 initial syllables in the English vocabulary.Computer Speech and Language, 2, 133-42.Cuder, A., Mehler, J., Norris, D. & Segui, J.
(1987).Phoneme identification and the lexicon.
Cogni:ivePsychology, 19, 141-77.Cuder, A.
& Norris.
D. (1988).
The role of slxongsyllables in segmentation for lexical access.
J. ofExperimental Psychology: Human Perception andPerformance, 14, 113-21.Frazier, L. (1987).
Slrucmre in auditory wordrecognition.
Cognition, 25, 15%87.Gimson, A.
(1980).
An Introduction to the Pronunciationof English.
3rd F.~tion, Edw~l Arnold, London.Gmsjean, F. & Gee, L (1987).
Prosodic su-ucmre andspoken word recognition.
Cognition, 25, 135-155.Harrington, J., Watson, G. & Cooper, M. (1988).
Wordhound~y identification from phoneme sequence~mtraims in automatic ~dnuons peech recognition.Proc.
of 12th Int.
Co~.
on Computational Linguistics,Budapest, pp.
225-30.Huttanlocher, D. (1985).
Exploiting sequential phoneticconstraints in recognizing spoken words.
MIT.
AI.
Lab.Memo 867.Klatt, D. (1979).
Speech perceptiom a model of acoustic-phonetic analysis and lexical access.
Journal ofPho~t/es, 7, 279-312.Maralen-WiLson, M. (1987).
Functional parallelism inspoken word recognition.
Cognition, 25, 71-i02.Marden-WiLson, W. & Warren, P. (1987).
Continuousuptake of acoustic cues in spoken word recognition.Perception & Psychophy$ics, 41, 262-75.Marslen-Wilson, W. & WeLsh, A.
(1978).
Processinginteractions and lexical access during word recognition icontinuous speech.
Cognitive Psychology, 10, 29-63.Mcclelland, J.
& Elman, I.
(1986).
The TRACE modelof speech perception.
Cognitive Psychology, 18, 1-86.Miller.
G. & Nicely, P. (1955).
Analysis of someperceptual confusions among some English consonants.Journal of Acoustical Society of America, 27, 338-52.Sakoe, H. & Chiba, S. (1971).
A dynatrdc programmingoptimization for spoken word recognition.
IEEETransactions, Acoustics, Speech and Signal Processing,ASSP-26, 43-49.Selkirk, E. (1978).
On prosodic structure and its relationto syntactic su'ucmre.
Indiana University LinguisticsClub, Bloomington, Indiana.Sheperd, R. (1972) Psychological representation ofspeech sounds.
In David, E. & Denes, P. HumanCommunication: A Unified View, New York: McGraw-HillShipman, D. & Zue, V. (1982).
Properties of largelexicons: implications for advanced isolated wordreco~don systan~.
IEEE ICASSP, Paris, 546-549.Wiese, R. (1986).
The role of phonology in speechprocessing.
Proc.
of llth Int.
Conf.
on ComputationalLinguistics, Bonn, pp.
608-11.WiLson.
M. (1988).
MRC psycholinguisfic database:machine-usable dictionary, version 2.0 BehaviourResearch Methods, Instrumentation & Computers, 20,6-10.Zue, V. & Huttenlocher, D. (1983).
Computerrecognition of isolated words from large vocabularies.IEEE Conference on Trends and Applications.9O
