Two Constraints on Speech Act AmbiguityElizabeth A. Hinkelman and James F. AllenComputer Science DepartmentThe University of RochesterRochester, New York 14627ABSTRACTExisting plan-based theories of speech actinterpretation do not account for the conventionalaspect of speech acts.
We use patterns of linguisticfeatures (e.g.
mood, verb form, sentence adverbials,thematic roles) to suggest a range of speech actinterpretations for the utterance.
These are filteredusing plan-bused conversational implicatures toeliminate inappropriate ones.
Extended planreasoning is available but not necessary for familiarforms.
Taking speech act ambiguity seriously, withthese two constraints, explains how "Can you passthe salt?"
is a typical indirect request while "Are youable to pass the salt?"
is not.1.
The ProblemFull natural language systems must recognizespeakers' intentions in an utterance.
They must knowwhen the speaker is asserting, asking, or making asocial or official gesture \[Searle 69,Searle 75\], inaddition to its content.
For instance, the ordinarysentence(I) Can you open the door?.might in context be a question, a request, or even anoffer.
Several kinds of information complicate therecognition process.
Literal meaning, lexical andsyntactic choices, agents' beliefs, the immediatesituation, and general knowledge about humanbehavior all clarify what he ordinary speaker is after.Given an utw.xance and context, we model how theutterance changes the hearer's tate.
Previous workfalls roughly into three approaches, each withcharacteristic weaknesses: the idiom approach, theplan based approach, and the descriptive approach.The idiom approach is motivated by pat phrases like:(2) a: Can you please X7b: Would you kindly X?c: I'd like X.d: May I X?e: How about X?They are literally questions or statements, but oftenused as requests or in (e), suggestions.
The systemcould look for these particular strings, and build thecorresponding speech act using the complement as aparameter value.
But such sentences are not trueidioms, because the literal meaning is also possible inmany contexts.
Also, one can respond to the literaland nonliteral acts: "Sure, it's the 9th."
The idiomapproaches are too inflexible to choose the literal "r~ding or to accommodate ambiguity.
They lack atheory connecting the nonliteral and literal readings.Another problem is that some classic examples arenot even pat phrases:'212(3) a: It's cold in here.b: Do  you have a watch on?In context, (a) may be a request to close the window.Sentence Co) may be asking what time it is orrequesting to borrow the watch.
The idiom approachallows neither for context nor the reasoningconnecting utterance and desired action.The plan based approach\[Allen 83,McCafferty 86,Perrault 80,Sidner 81\]presumes a mechanism modelling human problemsolving abilities, including reasoning about otheragents and inferring their intentions.
The system hasa model of the current situation and the ability tochoose a course of action.
It can relate utteredpropositions to the current situation: being cold inhere is a bad state, and so you probably want me todo something about it; the obvious olution is for meto close the window, so, I understand, you mean forme to close the window.
The plan based approachprovides a tidy, independently motivated theory forspeech act interpretation.It does not use language-specific information,however.
Consider(4) a: Can you speak Spanish?b: Can you speak Spanish, please?Here the addition of a word alters an utterance whichis a yes/no question in typical circumstances to arequest.
This is not peculiar to "please":(5) a: Can you open the door?b: Are you able to open the door?Here two sentences, generally considered to have thesame semantics, differ in force: the first may be aquestion, an offer, or a requesL the second, only aquestion.
Further, different languages realize speechacts in different ways: greetings, for example (or see\[Hem 84\]).
(6) a: You want to cook dinner.b: You wanna toss your coats in there?The declarative sentence (a) can be a request,idiomatic to Hebrew, while the nearest Americanexpression is interrogative Co).
Neither is a request inBritish English.
The plan based approach hasnothing to say about hese differences.
Neither does itexplain the psycholinguistic \[Gibbs 84\] finding thatpeople access idiomatic interpretations in contextmore quickly than literal ones.
Psycholinguisticallyplausible models cannot derive idiomatic meaningsfrom literal meanings.Descriptive approaches cover large amounts of data.\[Brown 80\] recognized the diversity of speech actphenomena nd included the first computationalmodel with wide coverage, but lacked theoreticalclaims and did not handle the language-specific caseswell.
\[Gordon 75\] expresses some very nicegeneralizations, but lacks motivation and sufficientdetail.
It does not account for examples like numbers3, 4, 6 or 7.
In number 3, for example, one asks aquestion by asking literally whether the hearer knowsthe answer.
A plan-based approach would argue thatknowing the answer is a precondition for stating it,and this logical connection enables identification ofthe real question.
But Gordon and Lakoff write offthis one, because their sincerity conditions areinadequate.We augment the plan-based approach with alinguistic component: compositional rulesassociating linguistic features with partial speech actdescriptions.
The rules express linguisticconventions that are often motivated by planningtheory, but they also allow for an element ofarbitrariness in just which forms are idiomatic to alanguage, and just which words and features mark it.For this reason, conventions ofuse cannot be handleddirectly by the plan reasoning mechanism.
Theyrequire an interpretation process paralleling syntacticand semantic interpretation, with the same provisionsfor merging of partial interpretations andpostponement of ambiguityresolution.
Thecompositionality of partial speech act interpretationsand use of ambiguity are both original to ourapproach.Once the utterances have been interpreted by ourconventional rules to produce a set of candidateconventional interpretations, these interpretations arefiltered by the plan reasoner.
Plan reasoningprocesses unconventional forms in the same spirit asearlier p lan -~ models, finding non-conventionalinterpretations and motivating many conventionalones.
We propose a limited version of planreasoning, based on an original claim aboutconversational implicatare, which is adequate forfiltering conventional interpretations.Section 2 will explain the linguistic computationwhich interprets linguistic features as speech actdescriptions.
Section 3 describes plan reasoningtechniques that are useful for speech actinterpretation and presents our view of planreasoning.
Section 4 presents the overall processcombining these two parts.2.
Linguistic ConstraintsSpeech act interpretation has many similarities to theplan recognition problem.
Its goal is, given asituation and an utterance, to understand what thespeaker was doing with that utterance, and to find abasis for an appropriate response.
In our case thiswill mean identifying a set of plan structuresrepresenting speech acts, which are possibleinterpretations of the utterance.
In this section weshow how to use compositional, language-specificrules to provide evidence for a set of partial speechact interpretations, and how to merge them.
Later, weuse plan reasoning to constrain, supplement, anddecide among this set.2.1.
Notational AsideOur notation is based on that of \[Allen 87\].
Itsessential form is (category <slot filler> <slotfiller>...).
Categories may be syntactic, semantic, orfrom the knowledge base.
A filler may be a word, afeature, a knowledge-base object (referent) oranother (category...) structure.Two slots associated with syntactic ategories mayseem unusual: SEN and RgF.
They contain theunit's semantic interpretation, divided into twocomponents.
The SEM slot contains a structural-semantic representation f this instance, based on asmall, finite set of thematic roles for verbs and nounphrases.
It captures the linguistic generalities of verbsubcategorization and noun phrase structure.Selectional restrictions, identification of referents,and other phenomena involving world knowledge arecaptured in the ~ slot.
It contains a translation ofthe SEN slot's logical form into a framelikeknowledge representation language, in which richerand more specific role assignments can be made.SF.~ thematic roles correspond to differentknowledge base roles according to the event classbeing described, and in REF file corresponding e.v~ntand argument instances are identified ff possio e.Distinguishing logical form from knowledge~p resentafion is an experiment in.tended to clarify e notion of semantic roles in logtcal form, and toreduce the complexity of the interpretation process.The senten~ "Can you speak Spanish?"
is shownbelow.
(S MOOD YES-NO-QVOICE ACTSUBJ  (NP HEAD youSEM (HUMAN hl)REF Suzanne)AUXS canMAIN-V  speakTENSE PRESOBJ  (NP HEAD SpanishSEM (LANG ID sl)REF Isl)SEM (CAPABLETENSE PRESAGENT hlTHEME (SPEAK OBJECT s i) )REF (ABLE-STATEAGENT SuzanneACTION (USE-LANGUAGEAGENT SuzanneLANG isl)))The outermost category is the syntactic ategory,sentence.
It has many ordinary syntactic features,subject, object, and verbs.
The subject is a nounphrase that describes a human and refers to a person213named SuTanne, the object a language, Spanish.
Thesemantic structure concerns the capability of theperson to speak a language.
In the knowledge base,this becomes Suzanne's ability to use Spanish as alanguage.2.2.
Evidence for Interpretat ionsThe utterance provides clues to the hearer, but wehave already seen that its relation to its purpose maybe complex.
We need to make use oflexical andsyntacttc as well as semantic and referentialinformation.
In this section we will look at rulesusing all of these kinds of information, introducingthe notation for rules as we go.
Rules consist of a setof features on the left-hand side, and a set of partialspeech act descriptions on the other.
The rule shouldbe interpreted as saying that any structure matchingthe left hand side must be interpreted as one of thespeech acts indicated on the right hand side.
Thespeech act descriptions themselves are also in(category <slot filler> ... <slot filler>) notation.
Theircategories are simply their types in the knowledgebase's abstraction hierarchy, in which the categorySPgZCH-ACT abstracts all speech act types.
Slotnames and filler types also are defined by theabstraction hierarchy, but a given rule need notspecify all slot values.
Here is a lexical rule: theadverb "please" occurring in any syntactic unitsignals a request, command, or other act in thedirective class.(?
ADV please) -(1)=>(DIRECTIVE-ACT)?
~athough this is a very simple rule, its correctnesshas been ~tablished by examination of some 43million words of Associated Press news stories.
Thiscorpus contains several hundred occurrences of"please", the most common form being the preverbaladverb in a directive utterance.A number of useful generalizations are based on thesyntactic mood of sentences.
As we use the term,mood is an aggregate of several syntactic featurestaking the values DECLARATIVE, IMPERATIVE,YES-NO-Q, WH-Q.
Many different speech act typesoccur with each of these values, but in the absence ofother evidence an imperative is likely to be acommand and a declarative, an Inform.
Aninterrogative s ntence may be a question or possiblyanother speech act.
(S MOOD YES-NO-Q) =(2)=>( (ASK-ACT PROP V(REF) )(SPEECH-ACT))The value function v returns the value of thespecified slot of the sentence.
Thus rule 2 has theproposition slot PROP filled with the value of theREF slot of the sentence.
It matches entences whosemood is that of a yes/no question, and interprets themas asking for the truth value of their explicitpropositional content.
Thus matching this ruleagainst he structure for "Can you speak Spanish?
"would produce the interpretations((ASK-ACTPROP (ABLE-STATE AGENT SuzanneACTION (USE-LANGUAGEAGENT SuzanneLANG lsl)))( SPEECH-ACT ) )Interrogative sentences with modal verbs and asubject "you" are typically requests, but may be someother act:(S MOOD YES-NO-Q =(3)=>VOICE ACTSUEJ (NP PRO you)AUXS {can could wil l  would might}MAIN-V +action)((REQUEST-ACT ACTION V(ACTION REF))(SPEECH-ACT))Rule 3 interprets "Can you...?"
questions as requests,looking for the subject "you" and any of these modalverbs.
Lists in curly brackets (e.g.
{can could willwould might}) signify disjunctions; one of themembers must be matched.
In this rule, the valuefunction v follows a chain of slots to find a value.ThUS V(ACTION REF) iS the value of theACTION slot in the structure that is the value of theREF slot.
Note that an unspecified speech act is alsoincluded as a possibility in both rules.
This isbecause it is also possible that the utterance mighthave a different interpretation, ot suggested by themood.Some rules are based in the semantic level.
Forexample, the presence of a benefactive case maymark a request, or it may simply occur in a statementor question.
(S MAIN-V +actionSEM (?
BENEF ?))
=(4)=>( (DIRECTIVE-ACT ACT V(REF) )(SPEECH-ACT) )Recall that we distinguish the semantic level from thereference level, inasmuch as the semantic level issimplified by a strong theory of thematic roles, orcases, a small standard set of which may proveadequate to explain verb subcategorizationphenomena \[Jackendoff 72\] The reference level, by214contrast, is ihe language of the knowledge base, inwhich very specific domain roles are possible.
To theextent that referents can be identified in theknowledge base (often as skolem functions) theyappear at the reference l vel.
This rule says that anyway of stating a desire may be a request for theobject of the want.
(S MOOD DECL = (5) =>VOICE ACTTENSE PRESREF (WANT-ACT ACTOR !
s) )(REQUEST-ACTACT V(DES ID WANT-ACT REF) )It will match any sentence that can be interpreted asasserting a want or desire of the agent, such as(7) a: I need a napkin.b: I would like two ice creams.The object of the request is the WANT-ACT'sdesideratum.
(The desideratum is already filled byreference processing.)
One may prefer an accountthat handles generalizations from the REF level byplan reasoning; we will discuss this point later.
Fornow, it  is  sufficient to note that rules of this type arecapable of representing the conventions of languageuse that we are after.2.3, Applying the RulesWe now consider in detail how to apply the rules.For now, assume that the utterance is completelyparsed and semantically interpreted, unambiguously,like the sentence "can you speak Spanish?"
as i tappeared in Sect.
2.1.Interpretation f this sentence begins by finding rulesthat match with it.
The matching algorithm is astandard unification or graph matcher.
It requires thatthe category in the rule match the syntactic structuregaven.
All slots present in the rule must be found onthe category, and have equal values, and so onrecursively.
Slots not present in the rule are ignored.If the rule matches, the structures on the right handside are filled out and become partial interpretations.We need a few general rules to fill in informationabout he conversation:( ? )
= ( 6 ) => ( ( SPEECH-ACT AGENT !
s ) )Rule 6 says that an utterance of any syntacticcategory maps to a speech act with agent specified bythe global variable is.
(The processes of identifyingspeaker and heater are assumed, to be contextuallydefined.)
The partial interpretation it yields for theSpanish sentence is a speech act with agent Mrs. dePrado:( (SPEECH-ACT AGENT Mrs. de Prado))The second rule is analogous, filling in the hearer.(?)
=(7)ffi> ((SPEECH-ACT HEARER !h))For our example sentence, it yields a speech act withhearer Suzanne.
( (SPEECH-ACT HEARER Suzanne) )Rule no.
2 given earlier, for yes/noproduces these interpretations:questions,( (ASK-ACTPROP(ABLE-STATEAGENT SuzanneACTION (USE-LANGUAGEAG~%"2 SuzanneLANG lsl)))(SPEECH-ACT))The indirect request comes from rule no.
3 above.To apply it, we match the subject "you" and themodal auxialiary "can*, and the features of yes/nomood and active voice.
( (REQUEST-ACTACT ION (USE-LANGUAGEAGENT SuzanneLANG lsl)))(SPEECH-ACT))We now have four sets of partial descriptions, whichmust be merged.2.4 .
Combining Partial DescriptionsThe combining operation can be thought of as takingthe cross product of the sets, merging partialinterpretations within each resulting set, andreturning those combinations that are consistentinternally.
We expect hat psycholinguistic studieswill provide additional constraints on this set, e.g.commitment to interpretations triggered early in thesentence.The operation of merging partial interpretations isagain unification or graph matching; when theoperation succeeds the result contains all theinformation from the contributing partialinterpretations.
The cross product of our first twosets is simple; it is the pair consisting of theinterpretation for speaker and hearer.
These two canbe merged to form a set containing the single speechact  with speaker Mrs. de Prado and hearer Suzanne.The cross product of this with the results of the moodrule contains two pairs.
Within the first pair, theASK-ACT is a subtype of SPEECH-ACT and215therefore matches, resulting in a request with theproper speaker and hearer.
The second pair results inno new information, just the SPEECH-ACT withspeaker and hearer.
(Recall that the mood rule mustallow for other interpretations of yes/no questions,and here we simply propagate that fact.
)Now we must take the cross product of two sets oftwo interpretations, yielding four pairs.
One pair isinconsistent because REQUEST-ACT and ASK-ACT do not unify.
The REQUEST-ACT getsspeaker and hearer by merging with the SPEECH-ACT, and the ASK-ACT slides through by mergingwith the other SPEECH-ACT.
Likewise the twoSPEECH-ACTs match, so in the end we have anASK-ACT,.
REQUEST-ACT, and the simpleSPEECH-ACT.
( (REQUEST-ACTAGENT Mrs. de PradoHEARER SuzanneACT ION (USE-LANGUAGEAGENT SuzanneLANG is1)))(ASK-ACTAGENT Mrs. de PradoHEARER SuzannePROP (ABLE-STATEAGENT SuzanneACT ION (USEAGENT SuzanneOBJECT is1)))(SPEECH-ACT AGENT Mrs. de Prado)HEARER Suzanne))At this stage, the utterance is ambiguous among thesethree interpretations.
Consider their classifications inthe speech act hierarchy.
The third abswaets theother two, and signals that there may be otherpossibilities, those it also abstracts.
Its significance isthat it allows the plan reasoner to suggest hesefurther interpretations, and it will be discussed later.If there are any expectations generated by top-downplan recognition mechanisms, ay, the answer in aquestion/answer pair, they can be merged in here.2.5.
Fur ther  Linguistic Considerat ionsWe have used a set of compositional rules to build upmultiple interpretations of an utterance, based onlinguistic features.
They can incorporate lexieal,syntactic, semantic and referential distinctions.
Whydoes the yes/no question interpretation seem to befavored in the Spanish example?
We hypothesizethat for utterances taken out of context, people makepure frequency judgements.
And questions aboutone's language ability are much more common thanrequests to speak one.
Such a single-utterancerequest is possible only in contexts where theintended content of the Spanish-speaking is clear or216clearly irrelevant, since "speak" doesn'tsubcategorize for this crucial information.
(cf.
"Canyou read Spanish?
I have this great article .... ")The statistical base can be overridden by lexicalinformation.
Recall 5(b) "Can you speak Spanish,please?"
The "please" rule (above) yields only therequest interpretation, and fails to merge with theASK-ACT.
It also merges with the SPEECH-ACT,but the result is again a request, merely adding thepossibility that the request could be for some otheraction.
No such action is likely to be identified.
The"please" rule is very strong, because it can overrideour expectations.
The final interpretations for "Canyou speak Spanish, please?"
do not include the literalinterpretation:( (REQUEST-ACTAGENT Mrs. de PradoHEARER SuzanneACT ION (USE-LANGUAGEAGENT SuzanneLANG isl)))( (REQUEST-ACT AGENT Mrs. de PradoHEARER Suzanne)Here S,_,-~,nne is probably being asked to continue thepresent dialogue in Spanish.Some linguistic features are as powerful as "please",as can be seen by the incoherence of the following,where each sentence contains contradictory features.
(8) a: *Should you go home, please?b: *Shouldn't you go home, please?c: *Why not go home, please?Modal verbs can be quite strong, and intonation aswell.
Other features are more suggestive thandefinitive.
The presence of a benefactive case (ruleabove) may be evidence for an offer or request, orjust happen to appear in an inform or question.Sentence mood is weak evidence: it is oftenoverridden, but in the absence of other evidence it itbecomes important The adverbs "kindly" and"possibly" are also weak evidence for a request, andlarge class of sentential adverbs is associatedprimarily with Inform acts.
(9) a: *Unfortunately, I promise to obey orders.b: Surprisingly, I'm leaving next week.c: Actually, I'm pleased to see you.Explicit performative utterances \[Austin 62\] aredeclarative, active, utterances whose main verbidentifies the action explicitly.
The sentence meaningcorresponds exactly to the action performed.
(S MOOD DECLVOICE  ACTSUBJ  (NP HEAD i)MAIN-V  +per format  ireTENSE PRES)=(8)=> v(~' )Note that the rule is not merely triggering off akeyword.
Presence of a performative verb withoutthe accompanying syntactic features will not satisfythe pefformative rule.2.6.
The Limits of ConventionalityWe do not claim that all speech acts areconventional.
There are variations in conventionacross languages, of course, and dialects, butidiolects also vary greatly.
Some people, even verycooperative ones, do not recognize many types ofindirect requests.
Too, there is a form of request forwhich the generalization is obvious but only specialcases seem idiomatic:(10) a: Got a light?b: Got a dime?c: Got a donut?
(odd requesOd: Do you have the time?e: Do you have a watch on?There are other forms for which the generalization isobvious but no instance seems idiomatic: if someonewas assigned a task, asking whether it's done is asgood as a request.
(I I) Did you wash the dishes?In the next examples, there is a clear logicalconnection between the utterance and the requestedaction.
We could write a rule for the surface pattern,but the rule is useless because it cannot verify thelogical connection.
This must be done by planreasoning, because it depends on world knowledge.The first sentences can request he actions they arepreconditions of.
The second set can request actionsthey are effects of.
Because these requests operatevia the conditions on the domain plan rather than thespeech act itself, they are beyond the reach oftheories like Gordon&Lakoff 's, which have verysimple notions of what a sincerity condition can be.
(12) a: Is the garage open?b: Did the dryer stop?c: The mailman came.d: Are you planning to take out the garbage?
(13) a: Is the ear fixed?b: Have you fixed the ear?c: Did you fix the car?Plan reasoning provides an account for all of theseexamples.
The fact that certain examples can behandled by either mechanism we regard as a strengthof the theory: it leads to robust natural anguageprocessing systems, and explains why "Can you X?
"is such a successful construction.
Both mechanismswork well for such utterances, o the hearer has twoways to understand it correctly.
These last examples,along with "It's cold in here", really require planreasoning.3.
Role of Plan ReasoningPlan reasoning constitutes our second constraint onspeech act recognition.
There are four roles for planreasoning in the recognition process.
Specifically,plan reasoning1) eliminates speech act interpretations proposedby the linguistic mechanism, if they contradictknown intentions and beliefs of the agent.2) elaborates and makes inferences based on theremaining interpretations, allowing fornon-conventional speech act interpretations.3) can propose interpretations of its own, whenthere is enough context information to guesswhat the speaker might do next.4) provides a competence theory motivating many ofthe conventions we have described.Plan reasoning rules are based on the causal andstructural links used in plan construction.
Forinstance, in planning start with a desired goalproposition, plan an action with that effect, and thenplan for its preconditions.
There are also recognitionschemas for attributing plans: having observed thatan agent wants an effect, believe that they may planan action with that effect, and so on.
For modellingcommunication, it is necessary to complicate theserules by embedding the antecedent and consequent inone-sided mutual belief operators \[Allen 83\].
In theAllen approach, our Spanish example hinges on theacts" preconditions: SnT~rme will not attribute aqknUestion to Mrs. de Prado if she believes he alreadyows the answer, but this knowledge could be thebasis for a request.
Sentences like "It's cold inhere"are also interpreted by extended reasoning about heintentions an agent could plausibly have.
We useextended reasoning for difficult cases, and the morerestricted plan-hased conversational implicatureheuristic \[Hinkelman 87\], \[Hinkelman forthcoming\]as a plausibility filter adequate for most commoneases .4.
Two Constraints IntegratedSection 2 showed how to compute a set of possiblespeech act interpretations compositionally, fromconventions of language use.
Section 3 showed howplan reasoning, which motivates the conventions, canbe used to further develop and restrict theinterpretations.
The time has come to integrate thetwo into a complete system.4.1.
Interaction of the ConstraintsThe plan reasoning phase constrains the results of thelinguistic omputation by eliminating interpretations,and reinterpreting others.
The linguistic omputationconstrains plan reasoning by providing the input; thefinal interpretation must be in the range specified, andonly if there is no plausible interpretation is extendedinference explicitly invoked.
Recall that the217linguistic rules control ambiguity: because the righthand side of the rule must express all the possibilitiesfor this pattern, a single rule can limit the range ofinterpretations sharply.
Consider(14) a: I hereby inform you that it's cold in here.b: It's cold in here.The explicit performative rules, triggered by"hereby" and by a pefformafive verb in theappropriate syntactic ontext, each allow for only anexplicit performadve interpretation.
(a) isunambiguous, and if it is consistent with context noextended reasoning is needed for speech actidentification purposes.
(In fact the hearer willprobably find the formality implausible, and try toexplain that.)
By contrast, the declarative ruleproposes two speech acts for (b), the Inform and thegeneric speech act.
The ambiguity allows the planreasoner to identify other interpretations, particularlyif in context the Inform interpretation is implausible.The entire speech act interpretation process is now asfollows.
Along with the usual compositionallinguistic processes, we build up and mergehypotheses about speech act interpretations.
Theresulting interpretations are passed to the implicaturemodule.
The conversational implicatures arecomputed, discounting interpretations if they are inconflict with contextual knowledge.
If a.plausible,non-contradictory interpretation results, ~t can beaccepted.
Allen-style plan reasoning is invoked toidentify the speech act only if remaining ambiguityinterferes with planning or if no completely plausibleinterpretations remain.
After that, plan reasoningmay proceed to elaborate the interpretation r to plana response.Consider the central example of this paper.
Threeinterpretations were were proposed for "Can youspeak Spanish?
", in Section 2.As they become available, the next step in processingis to check plausibility by attempting to verify theact's conversational implicatures.
We showed howthe Ask act is ruled out by its implicatures, when theanswer is known.
Likewise, in circumstances whereSuzanne is known not to speak Spanish, the Requestis eliminated.The genoric speech act is present under mostcircumstances, but adds little information except oallow for other possibilities.
Because in any of thesecontexts a specific interpretation is acceptable, nofurther inference is necessary for idendfying thespeech act.
If it is merely somewhat likely thatSuzanne speaks Spanish, both specific interpretationsare possible and both may even be intended by Mrs.de Prado.
Further plan reasoning may elaborate oreliminate possibilides, or plan a response.
But it isnot required for the main effort of speech actidentification.218c ~4.2.
The Role of AmbiguityIf no interpretations remain after the plausibilitycheck, then the extended plan reasoning may beinvoked to resolve a possible misunderstanding ormistaken belief.
If several remain, it may not benecessary to disambiguate.
Genuine ambiguity ofintentions i quite common in speech and often not aproblem.
For instance, the speaker may mentionplans to go to the store, and leave unclear whetherthis constitutes a promise.In cases of genuine ambiguity, it is possible for thehearer to respond to each of the proposedinterpretations, and indeed, politeness may evenrequire it.
Consider (b)-(g) as responses to (a).
(15) a: Do you have our grades yet?b: No, not yet.c: Yes, I'm going to announce them in class.d: Sure, here's your paper.
(hands paper.
)e: Here you go.
(hands paper.
)f: *No.g: *Yes.The main thing to note is that it is infelicitous toignore the Request interpretation; the polite responsesacknowledge that he speaker wants the grades.Note that within the framework of "speaker-based"meaning, we emphasize the role of the hearer in thefin.~ understanding of an utterance.
An importantpoint is that while the speech act attempted dependson the speaker's intentions, the speech actaccomplished also depends on the hearer's ability torecognize the intentions, and to some extent theirown desires in the matter.
Consider an example from\[Clark 88\]:(16) a: Have some asparagus.b: No, thanks-.
(17) a: Have some asparagus.b: OK, if I have to ....The first hearer treats the sentence as an offer, thesecond as a command.
If the speaker intendedotherwise, it must be corrected quickly or be lost.4.3.
The Implementat ionOur system is implemented using common lisp andthe Rhetorical knowledge representation system\[Miller 87\], which provides among other things ahierarchy of belief spaces.
The linguistic speech actinte~retadon module been implemented, withmerging, as well as the implicature calculadon andchecking module.
So given the appropriate contexts,the Spanish example runs.
Extended plan reasoningwill eventually be added.There are of course open problems.
One would liketo experiment with large interpretation rule sets, andwith the constraints from other modules.
Theprojection problem, both for conversational~mplicature and for speech act interpretation, has notbeen examined directly.
If a property likeconversational implicature or presupposition iscomputed at the clause level, one wants to knowwhether the property survives negation, conjunction,or any other syntactic embedding.
\[Horton 87\] has aresult for projection of presuppositions, which maybe generalizable.
The other relevant work is\[Hirschberg 85\] and \[Gazdar 79\].
Plan recognitionfor discourse, and the processing of cue words, arerelated areas.5.
ConclusionTo determine what an agent is doing by making anutterance, we must make use of not only generalreasoning about actions in context, but also thelinguistic features which by convention areassociated with specific speech act types.
To do this,we match patterns of linguistic features as part of thestandard linguistic processing.
The resulting partialinterpretations axe merged, and then filtered bydetermining the plausibility of their conversationalimplicatures.
Assuming no errors on the part of thespeaker, the final interpretation is constrained to liewithin the range so specified.If there is not a plausible interpretation, full planreasoning is called to determine the speaker'sintentions.
Remaining ambiguity is not a problem butsimply a more complex basis for the heater'splanning processes.
Linguistic patterns and planreasoning together constrain speech act interpretationsufficiently for discourse purposes.AcknowledgementsThis work was supported in part by NSF researchgrants no.
DCR-8502481, IST-8504726, and USArmy Engineering Topographic Laboratoriesresearch contract no.
DACA76-85-C-0001.References\[Allen 83\] Allen, J., "Recognizing Intentions FromNatural Language Utterances," in ComputationalModels of Discourse, Brady, M. and Berwick, B.(ed.
), MIT Press, Cambridge, MA, 1983, 107-166.\[Allen 87\] Allen, J., Natural LanguageUnderstanding, Benjamin Cummings Publishing Co.,1987.\[Austin 62\] Austin, J. L., How to Do Things withWords, Harvard University Press, Cambridge, MA,1962.\[Brown 80\] Brown, G. P., "Characterizing IndirectSpeech Acts," American Journal of ComputationalLinguistics6:3-4, July-December 1980, 150-166.\[Clark 88\] Clark, H., Collective Actions in LanguageUse, Invited Talk, September 2 I, 1988.\[Gazdar 79\] Gazdar, G., Pragmatics: Implicature,Presupposition and Logical Form, Academic Press,New York, 1979.\[Gibbs 84\] Gibbs, R., "Literal Meaning andPsychological Theory," Cognitive Science 8, 1984,275-304.\[Gordon 75\] Gordon, D. and Lakoff, G.,"Conversational Postulates," in Syntax and SemanticsV.
3, Cole, P. and Morgan, J. L.
(ed.
), AcademicPress, New York, 1975.\[Hinkelman 87\] Hinkelman, E., "Thesis Proposal: APlan-Based Approach to ConversationalImplicature," TR 202, Dept.
Computer Science,University of Rochester, June 1987.\[I-Iirschberg 85\] Hirschberg, J., "A Theory of Scalarof Implicature," MS-CIS-85-56, PhD Thesis,Department of Computer and Information Science,University of Pennsylvania, December 1985.\[Horn 84\] Horn, L. R. and Bayer, S., Short-CircuitedImplicature: A Negative Contribution, Vol.
7, 1984.\[Horton 87\] Horton, D. L., "Incorporating Agents'Beliefs in a Model of Presupposition," TechnicalReport CSRI-201, Computer Systems ResearchInstitute, University of Toronto, Toronto, Canada,August 1987.\[Jackendoff 72\] Jackendoff, R. S., SemanticInterpretation i  Generative Grammar, MIT Press,Cambridge, 1972.\[McCafferty 86\] McCafferty, A. S., ExplainingImplicatures, 23 October 1986.\[Miller 87\] Miller, B. and Allen, J., The RhetoricalKnowledge Representation System: A User's Manual,forthcoming technical report, Department ofComputer Science, University of Rochester, 1987.\['Perrault 80\] Perrault, C. R. and Allen, J. F., "APlan-Based Analysis of Indirect Speech Acts,"American Journal of Computational Linguistics 6:3-4, July-December 1980, 167-82.\[Searle 69\] Searle, J., in Speech Acts, CambridgeUniversity Press, New York, 1969.\[Searle 75\] Searle, J., "Indirect Speech Acts," inSyntax and Semantics, v3: Speech Acts, Cole andMorgan (ed.
), Academic Press, New York, NY,1975.\[Sidner 81\] Sidner, C. L. and Israel, D. J.,"Recognizing Intended Meaning and Speakers'Plans," Proc.
IJCA1 '81, 1981, 203-208.219
