CONVERSATIONALLY RELEVANT DESCRIPTIONSAmlchai KronfeldNatural Language Incorporated2910 Seventh St.Berkeley, CA  94710i AbstractConversationally relevant descriptions are definitedescriptions that are not merely tools for the iden-tification of a referent, but are also crucial to the dis-course in other respects.
I analyze the uses of suchdescriptions in assertions as conveying a particular~ype of conversational implicatures.
Such implics-tures can be represented within the framework ofpossible world semantics.
The analysis is extendedto non-assertive illocutionary acts on the one hand,and to indefinite descriptions on the other.2 IntroductionIn an earlier paper \[Kronfeld 1986 b I have intro-duced the distinction between/unctionagiy and con-versationally relevant descriptions.
All uses of def-inite descriptions for the purpose of referring arefunctional in the sense that they are supposed toidentify the referent.
But some uses of definite de-scriptions exhibit a type of relevance (or irrelevance)that goes beyond identification purposes.
Considerthe following example.
As part of his effort to re=cruit more young people into the police force, themayor of New York proclaims in a public speech:1 New York needs more policemen.Instead of gNew York" he might have used UThe BigApple, s or ~The city by the Hudson, ~ or some suchdescription.
It would not do, however, to say that2 The city with the world's largest Jewishcommunity needs more policemeneven though this description might be useful enoughin identifying New York for the audience.
It is sim-ply irrelevant in this context.
On the other hand,5Othis same description might be quite relevant in adifferent context.
For example, suppose the mayorwere giving a speech at a reception in honor of Is-rael's Prime Minister.
Under those circumstances,the statement$ The city with the world's largest Jewishcommunity welcomes Israel's PrimeMinister.would make perfect sense.
The difference, of course,is in the relevance of the description to the state=ment in (3), and its irrelevance to the one in (2).Uses of definite descriptions such as illustrated inexample (3), are what I call conversationally rele-vant.The distinction between functionally and conver-sationally relevant descriptions is part of a generalmodel of referring that is based on what I havetermed the dea4:riptlve approach to reference \[Kron-reid 1990\].
An ellucidation of the speech act of refer-ring cannot be complete without understanding therole of conversationally relevant descriptions in thelarger discourse.
My hypothesis in \[Kronfeld 1086\]was that conversationally relevant descriptions func-tion as part of implicatures of a particular type.
Theproblem is to specify what this type is.
An outlineof a solution is the topic of the present paper.3 ImplicatureWhy should we think that whenever a conversation-ally relevant description is used an implicature al-ways exists?
The reason for this has to do withthe fact that discourse is something more than asimple sum of the isolated sentences that constituteits parts.
Discourse consists of a sequence of ut-terances that are tied together in ways that makesere.
Typically, there are m~o~uf why a speakersays what he says in the order and manner thathe says it, and in general a hearer must have aclue as to what these reasons are (this is why planrecognition is so important for plan-based theoriesof speech acts).
Of course, the hearer cannot hopeto know or even guess all of the reasons that led thespeaker to participate in the discourse, but he can,indeed must, recognize aome of them.
As ALlen, Co-hen, Gross, Perranlt, and Sidner have pointed out\[Allen 1978; Perranlt and Cohen 1978; Alien andPerranlt 1978; Allen and Perranlt 1980; Gross andSidner 1986; Sidner 1983; Sidner 1985\], the recog-nition of what the speaker is "up to e contributesto coherence and comprehensibility of the discourseand is essential for the hearer's generation of an ap-propriate response.Now, the unstated reasons whose recognition isrequired for discourse coherence are by de~nitionimplicated, since they must be inferred in order topreserve the assumption that the speaker is beingcooperative.
This is precisely what an implicatureis.
Moreover, turning to conversationally relevantdescriptions, we should observe that by their verynature, they cannot be merely functionally relevant.That is, the assumption that they are intendedmerely as tools for identification is not enough tomake the discourse coherent.
This, after all, is pre.cisely what distinguishes functionally relevant de-scriptious from the conversationally relevant ones.Hence, additional assumptions are required in orderto make sense of the way the speaker uses the latterdescriptions.
These assumptious themselves mustbe implicated.Thus, in using a conversationally relevant descrip-tion, the speaker implicates omething.
The con-tent of implicatures that accompany such descrip-tions depends on circumstances, but they all sharea rather specific form.
My method in uncoveringthis form is this: taking the heater's perspective, Ibegin by postulating that if the referring expremionused by the speaker is merely functionally relevant,the speaker must be viewed as uncooperative.
I thenoutline a sequence of deductions that eliminate theapparent conflict between what the speaker says andthe assumption of his cooperation.3.1 RecognitionThe general mechanism for the recognition of a con-versationally relevant description follows the famil-iar Gricean path.
The hearer begins by assumingthat the referring expression is only functionallyrelevant, and then gets into diflicnlties.
An obvi-ous strategy is illustrated by Example (3) above.At first glance it appears that the mayor violatedthe third maxim of manner ('Be briei~): he used61a long and cumbersome description ('the city withthe largeat Jewish couunltym), although a muchshorter and functionally superior one is available('New York'}.
However, a hearer can easily makesense of the mayor's behavior by assuming that thereferring expression is not merely a tool for identifi-cation.
That is, it must be conversationally relevant.Another strategy for letting the hearer recog-a conversationally relevant description is illus-trated by "Smith's murderer ~ (interpreted "attribu-tively').
There, the assumption that the descriptionis only functionally relevant would lead to an inex-plicable violation of the second maxim of quality.It is obvious that no one knows yet who murderedSmith.
Thus, if the description is only functionallyrelevant, the hearer would be pussled as to how thespeaker could form an opinion about the sanity of aperson whose identity is unknown to him.3.2 Asserted universalityWhen a conversationally relevant description is used(or implied), the proposition which the speaker istrying to express lends itself to the Russellian anal-ysis.
Thus, if a speaker asserts a statement of theform4 The D is F,and "The D ~ is a conversationally relevant descrip-tion, then the proposition expessed by the speakeris this:5 (3x)(D(x) & (VY)CD(Y) --* x = y) & F(x)).
~Note that (5) is equivalent to the conjunction oftwo propositions.
The first one is the uniquenesscondition:6 (U 'n iquene ls )  (3z)CDCz) ~ CVy)(DCy) ~ z = y)~).The second is a universal generalization:.v, (u~-..er,~ztx) ('v'z)(D(.,.)
--, F( .
, ) ) .Both the uniqueness and the universality condi-tions have to be satisfied if what the speaker meansis to be true.
But from this it does not follow thatthe speaker ~sert8 these conditions.
Both Straw-son 11971\] and following him Searle \[1969, 157E.\]have argued in their criticism of Russell's theory ofdescriptions that the uniqueness condition, thoughpresupposed, is not ~erted.
For example, whena speaker says that the Queen of England is ill, hedoes not ~er t  that there is one and only one QueenSContextu~l information may be needed to augment thedescriptive content of "The D."of England.
This, no doubt, is true of the unique-ness condition, but I think that when a conversa-tionally relevant description is used, the un~eerm6/-/ty condition is indeed asserted, or at least stronglyimplied.
In a sense, what the speaker attempts toconvey is that any object that is denoted by thedescription "the D t has the property F, and thisis why it is so natural to insert "whoever he is" inthe classical examples of attributive uses of definitedescriptious.
By saying "Smith's murderer, who-ever he is, is insane" the speaker obviously meansthat for any person, if that person is Smith's mur-derer, that person is insane, which has the exactsame form as (7).
Note that the convention for us-ing definite descriptions to express universal state-ments already exists in the language ( 'The whaleis a mammar' i.e., for any z, if z is a whale, thenz is a mammal).
Moreover, very frequently, whena conversationally relevant description is used, thespeaker would maintain that the universality con-dition is true even if uniqueness fails.
Suppose itturns out that not one but two culprits are respon-sible for Smith's orry state.
If our speaker assertedthat Smith's murderer, whoever he is, is insane, heis very likely to say now that both are insane, ratherthan withdraw his judgment altogether.
All in all,it seems to me very plausible to assume that whenconversationally relevant descriptions are used, theuniversal claim is not only part of the truth condi-tious (together with uniqueness), but part of whatis asserted as well.3.3 Jus t i f i ca t ionA rational speaker who follows the Gricean max-ims is expected, among other things, to obey thesecond maxim of quality.
That is, he is expected tohave "adequate evidence ~ for what he asserts.
Whatcounts as adequate vidence obviously depends oncontext: we have di~erent standards for assertionsin a scientific article and in a gossipy chat.
Nev-ertheless in all verbal exchanges, a speaker is ex-pected to be able to provide reasonable justificationfor what he says.
He must be able to answer ques-tions such as "how do you know?"
"why do youthink so?"
and so on.
If he cannot, the assumptionabout his cooperation cannot be maintained.If a universal statement such as (7) is part of whatthe speaker asserts, he must be able, then, to jus-tify it.
The hearer may not know exactly what thespeaker's evidence is for believing this generalisa-tlon but the hearer can reason about the type of ev-idence or justification that the speaker is expectedto have.
In particular, I want to draw a distinctionbetween ezte~ona/  and inten.5~oaal justificationsof universal statements.
This distinction will helpus see what sort of justification a speaker can offer62for a statement such as (7) when a conversationallyrelevant description is used.The distinction between extensional and inten-sional justification of universal statements i basedon a familiar distinction in the philosophy of sci-ence between accidental and law\]ike general;ffiations(See Waiters 1967).
Not all universal generalls~-tions are scientific laws.
For example, the followingstatement, although true, is not a law of nature:8 All mount~;n, on Earth are le~ than 30,000feet high.On the other hand, this next statement is:9 All basketballs are attracted to the centerof Earth.What is the difference?
We\]\], there are several,but two related ones are specifically relevant o us.First, the latter generalization, but not the former,supports counter/actual statement.
If a mountainon Earth were to be examined a billion years fromnow, would it still be less than 30,000 feet high?
Wedon't know.
Changes in the surface of the earth oc-cur all the time, and Mount Everest needs a mere972 additional feet to make (8) false.
On the otherhand, if a player were to make a jump shot a bi\]Honyears from now the basketball would still find itsway down to the ground.
A law of nature does notlose its v'aHdity over time.Second, there is a crucial difference in the man-ner in which statements (8) and (9) are ju,~t~fied.The gener2l;tation about mountains on earth is sup-ported by observation: all mountain, on earth weremeasured and found to be less than 30,000 feet high.I do not know why this is so.
As far as I am con-cerned this is just one more accidental fact aboutthe world I llve in.
The generalization about bas-ketbalk, on the other hand, is derived from a moregeneral principle that explains why things such asbasketballs behave the way they do.
Such a deriva-tion is an essential part of an explanation of why (9)is true.
It also contributes to the coherence of ourexperience: what science provides us with, amongother things, is the reauuring knowledge that nat-ural phenomena do not just happen to occur, butfollow a general scheme that provides the basis forboth explanation and prediction.
Thus, our confi-dence in the truth of (9) is not merely the result ofexamining a large sample of basketballs.
We alsohave a theory that explains why they do not justhappen to come down whenever dropped, but, in asense, mu.~t do so.Given these two ditrerences between accidentaland lawl~e statements, let ezten~onal and ~nten-a~oas/justifications of universal generalizations bedefined as follows.
An extensional justification of ageneralization such as "All A's are F" would rely onthe fact that aLl, or most, or a good sample of thethings with the property A have been examined andwere found to have property F. In such a case therewould not be any attempt o explain why this is so,only a claim that as things stand, all A's do, in fact,have the property F. An intensional justification ofa universal generaKsation, on the other hand, wouldattempt to show that anything with the property ofbeing A m~t  have the property of being P, becauseof a more general principle or theory from wldch thegsneral~ation can be derived.
2The distinction I have just described is obviouslynot restricted to science, nor am I interested in elu-cidating different scientific methods of corrobora-tion.
Rather, I want to apply this distinction tothe kind of justification that a speaker is expectedto have for what he says, in view of Grice's secondmaxim of quail W. In a sense, what I am after is a"folk theory" of justification, not the foundation ofknowledge.
Thus, the extensional/intensional dis-tinction between types of justification is indifferentto the question whether the evidence for a statementis good or bad, as an intensional justification can beeither silly or brilliant.
Moreover, the distinctionapplies to all sorts of judgments, not merely theo-retical ones.
The biggotted justification for holdingstereotypic beliefs would presumably be extensional('Look, I don't know why they are all such dirtycowards, but I have met enough of them to knowthat they are:').
On the other hand, when thenotorious fundamentalist preacher Jimmy Swaggartstates that all adulterers are sinners, he does notintend us to believe that he has examined all (most,enough) adulterers and found that they happen tobe sinners.
If someone who is not an adulterer nowwould become one, he would have to be a sinneras well, and the reason for that is simple.
Within$waggart's world view, adulterers rn~t be sinnerssimply because the bible says so, and whatever thebible says is true.
The same distinction applies tothe most mundane generalisations that can appearin discourse.
"A11 the nursery schools in our area aresimply unacceptable ~ my friend tells me.
I assumethe justification for what he says is extensional (hehas checked out each and every one), but then headds: ".. .
they are all Montessori schools," and anintensional justification is revealed.Clearly, extensional and intensional justificationare not mutually exclusive.
Nor do they exhaust hetypes of justification one can use.
Thus, the justi-fication of the most fundamental principles of anytheory (scientific or otherwise), although clearly notextensional, would not be intensional either, since~Statisticai correlations belong to the extensional realm.Causal explanatiorm to the intensional one.63by definition they are not derivable from any otherprinciples (they would still support counterfactuak,though).
However, apart from such fundamentalax/oms, the justification of any universal general-isation, if it is not extensional, must be intenaionaLNow back to the univereali W condition that thespeaker asserts when he uses a conversationally re\]-evant description.
As mentioned already, the hearermay not know why the speaker believes the general-isation, but from the heater's point of view it standsto reason that the speaker's justification is inten-donul, because of the uniqueness condition.
If theuniquene~ condition is presupposed, an extensionaljustification of the universal generalization amountsto no more than this: there is evidence that the ref-erent happens to have the property F. But if thiswere all that the speaker had in mind, it would bevery misleading to give the impression that a univer-sal generalization was meant.
To see why, consider acase in which an author tells you that all his booksare published by Cambridge University Press.
Iflater you are to find out that he has publi-qhed onlyone book, you would surely be pusaled, althoughas things are, his statement was technically true.In other words, if the uniqueness condition is pre-supposed, it makes little sense to assert a universalgeneralization, unless the speaker believes that thegsneralisation m~t be true whether the uniquenesscondition is true or not.
Thus, if the speaker has in-tensional justification for what he says, the unique-ncss condition o longer interferes with universality.If the author tells you that he has just signed a life-time contract with Cambridge University Press, andtherefore all his books m~t be published there, thefact that he has written only one book (so far) doesnot matter any more.
In view of the contract, if hewere to write others, they would be published byCambridge.For the speech act to be coherent, therefore, thespeaker must have an inter~ional justification for(7).
This is why frequently when a conversation-ally relevant description is used (for example, in theparadigmatically "attributive ~ uses of definite de-scriptious), it is natural to replace the auxiliary verbwith an appropriately tensed occurrence of "mnst.
~For example,10 The inventor of the sewing machine,wae very whoever he or she was, ntuet h ue beensmart.11 If my political ~nalysis is correct, the.Democratic andidate in 1992 will ~.avebVto bea conservative.12 The thief who stole your diamond ring,knew mu,t ~we known how valuable it was.My hypothesis, therefore, is that conversationallyrelevant descriptions are used to assert universalgeneralizations for which the speaker has inteusionaljustification.
Therefore, when a speaker says "TheD is F"  and "The D" is conversationally relevant,a first approbat ion  of what is usually being im-plicated is this:13 Any D must be F.When the modal verb is actually added, the speakersimply makes (part of) the implicature explicit.3.4 The meaning of "must"As it stands, the implicature expressed by (13) ishopelessly vague.
The problem is with the modalverb ~must."
How is it to be interpreted?
Compare,for example, the following uses:14 (a) The bird m~t have entered throughthe attic.
(b) Whether I like it or not, I m~t  paymy taxes.(?)
The Butcher of Lion m,~t pay for hiscrimes.If I do not pay my taxes, I will be punished.
This iswhy I feel that I must do it.
But if the bird did notenter through the attic, or if the Butcher of Liondoes not pay for his crimes, neither bird nor beastwill be punished as a result of that.
Moreover, if thebird did not enter through the attic, th e speaker ut-tering 14(a) would simply be wrong.
But whether ornot the Butcher of Lion ever pays for his crimes, thespeaker uttering 14(c) would nevertheless be right.Thus, in each case, the intended interpretation ofthe modal verb is radically different.Is the word "must" multiply ambiguous then?Not necessarily.
As Angelika Kratser has argued\[1977; 1979; 1981\], the force of modal verbs such as"must" is relative to an implied contextual element.The examples in 14 are elliptical pronouncementswhose full meaning can be given by the following:15 (a) In view of what we know, the birdmust have entered through the attic.
(b) In view of what the law is, I must paymy taxes, whether I like it or not.(?)
In view of our moral convictions, theButcher of Lion must pay for hiscrimes.The interpretation of "must" in each example isindeed different, but there is, Kratzer argues, a coreof meaning which is common to alL This core is64specified as a /unct /oa  that can be precisely formu-lated within the framework of possible-world seman-tics.
Schematically, Kratser's suggestion is that themeaning of "must" is given by the function m~t-in-dew-o/, which accepts two arguments.
One ar-gument is the proposition within the scope of themodal verb (e.g., The bird came through the attic in14(a)).
Values for the other argument are phrasessuch as "what is known," awhat the law is," "ourmoral convictions," etc.
Thus, for example, sen-tence 15(a) is interpreted as16 Must=In -V iew-Of (What  is known, Thebird entered through he attic)The sentence is true in possible world uJ just incase the proposition expressed by "The bird enteredthrough the attic" logically follows from what weknow in w \[Kratzer 1977, 346\].
3Kratser's suggestion can be used in the elucida-tion of the implicature conveyed by a conversation-ally relevant description.
Let f stand for phrasessuch as "what is known," "What the law is," etc.Applying Kratser's analysis to (13) we get17 In view of/, any D must be F.or more accurately:lS  Must=In -V iew-Of ( / ,  any D /a F).
(18), then, is the implicature conveyed by a typicaluse of a conversationally relevant description.
How"in view of .f" is to be interpreted is up to the hearerto find out, but we may assume that possible val-ues for f come from a list that is scanned by thehearer until a particular item on the list provides asatisfactory interpretation.
Such a list may containthe following (see Kratzer 1981, 44-45, for possible-world interpretation):?
FactuoJ: In view of facts of such and suchkinds.. .
(including institutional facts such aswhat the law is).aPhrases such as "what is known, ~ "our moral convic-tions, n "what the facts are, ~ and so on are represented byKrat~er u functions from possible worlds to sets of proposi-tions.
For example, "what is known ~ is represented as a funotion J" which assigns ets of propositions to possible worldssuch that for each possible world w, f(w) contains all thepropositions that are known in that world.
According toKratser's first suggestion, for any function / from worlds tosets of propositions, and for every proposition P, "It must bethe case that P in view of f '  is true in to just in case/(to)entails P. As Kratler notes, this is only the first step in theelucidation of the meaning of modal verbs, and it works onlywhen .f(to) is guaranteed to be consistent (as is indeed thecase when f is "what is known ~ ).
When/(to) can be incon-sistent (e.g., when \[ is ,d~ the/,Lw/e ), problems arise, whichKratzer solves using the concept of the set of all consistentsubsets.?
Epiatemi?
: In view of what is known... (or al-ternatively, what is believed, assumed, hypoth-esised, and so on).?
Stereotypical: In view of the normal course ofevents...?
Deontic: In view of what is the right thing todo.
.
.?
Teleoloqical: In view of our objectives .
.
.
(oralternatively, our wishes, our intentions, andSO on).While the l~t may turn out to be much longer, thereis no reason to assume that it will be infinite.The assumption that a conversationally relevantdescription is used to implicate a modal operatorprovides a formal reason why in paradigmaticallyattributive uses, if nothing fits the description, thespeech act as a whole must fail.
If (18) is part ofwhat the speaker means in these cases, the descrip-tion is within the scope of a modal operator, hence,within an intensional context in which substitutionis not guaranteed to be a valid form of ;nference.Suppose that Ralph asserts that in view of whatwe know about the normal human propensity forviolence, Smith's murderer, whoever he is, must beinsane; and suppose Ralph thinks that Smith's mur-derer is Jane's uncle.
Substituting "Jane's uncle sfor ~Smith's murderer" yields the wrong result: it isnot the case that in view of what we know about thenormal human propensity for violence, Jane's uncle,whoever he is, must be insane.
Since in general sub-stitution is not allowed in intensional contexts, whenthe description fads (i.e., no one murdered Smith),Ralph's speech act must fail too.
The fact that hemay know quite well who he thought he culprit wasdoes not matter.By way of summary, here are the steps that ahearer might go through in calculating the implica-ture that is typically intended when a conversation-ally relevant description is used:1.
Recognising a conversationally relevant de-scription2.
Identifying the universal generalization3.
Postulating an intensional justification4.
Locating an appropriate set of propositions rel-ative to which the modal operator is interpretedOf course, this mechanism is much more flexiblethan I make it out to be, and a speaker can use itto satisfy various other goals.
For example, a defi-nite description can be used to provide information\[Appelt 1985\], or to highlight shared knowledge, orsimply to avoid mechanical repetition of a propername.
The following quotation illustrates how aconversationally relevant description can achieve allthese goals simultaneously:6519 In the Democratic primaries, Mr. Jackson,who is considered a long shot for theVice-Presidential nomination, received morethan seven million votes.
The J6-year-oldOkieago ele~yman has not said whether hewants the second spot on the Democratict icket... (New York Times, June 28, 1988)Since the name "Jackson" is already available asthe best functionally relevant referring expression,it should be obvious to the reader that the descrip-tion "the 46-year-old Chicago clergyman ~ is con-versationally relevant.
But if the reader were to gothrough the steps outlined above, he would reach adead end.
There is nothing in view of which it m~tbe the case that any 46 year old Chicago clergymanhas not said whether he wants the second spot onthe democratic ticket.
Thus, the implicature thatusually accompanies a conversationally relevant de-scription is ruled out.
Nor is there an obvious im-plicit description that is used to convey a similarimplicature.
The reader is then forced to search forother explanations, and one obvious possibility isthat the author wants to inform the reader (or re-mind him) that Jackson is a 46 year old clergymanfTom Chicago.4 iNon-assertivesSo far I have assumed that the conversationally rele-vant description is used within the context of an as-sertion, and I have relied, in my derivation of the im-pUcature, on the fact that in assertions the speakeris expected to have adequate vidence for what hesays.
In other speech acts, however, evidence andjustification play a completely different role, if any.For example, a speaker who asks a question is notexpected to have Xevidence~ for it.
Still, the use ofconversationally relevant descriptions i clearly notrestricted to assertions.
Consider the following:20 \[After the verdict is pronounced, the Mayorto the District Attorney\]Congratulations on nailing the ntogtfearsome criminal in recent Ai~tory.21 \[While the serving plate is passed around, aguest to the hostJI am not very hungry.
Could I have thesntalle~t ~teak please?22 \[A young cop to his superior, as the chasehe~\]One thing I can promise you: I will not letSmith's murderer get away!A detailed description of how my account can beextended to cover these cases would take us too farafield.
In general, however, the same analysis canapply to non-assertions such as the above as welLCoherence isno leas important in discourse contain-ing requests, warnings, promises, etc.
than in onecontaining assertives.
The hearer must understandthe reasons tuhy a congratulation, a request, or apromise are being performed, and the role of conver-sationally relevant descriptions in such speech actswould be similar to their roles in assertives, withsimilar impficatures.
As rough approximations, theimplicatures involved in the three examples aboveare expressed by the following statements, respec-tively:?
In view of the danger that criminals pose tosociety, nailing the most fearsome criminal inrecent history is an act that must be congratu-lated.?
In view of my wish to stay both slim and polite,I must have the smallest steak.?
In view of my moral convictions, I should trymy best to bring Smith's murderer to justice.5 Indefinite descriptionsIn this paper I take referring exp~ssious to be usesof noun phrases that are intended to indicate that aparticular object is being talked about.
Hence, in-definite descriptions can obviously serve as referringexpressions, and the distinction between functionaland conversational relevance should apply to themas well.
Usually, a use of an indefinite description asa referring expression signals to the hearer that theidentity of the referent is not important (e.g., IApoliceman gave me a speeding ticketJ).
Some usesof indefinite descriptions, however, are clearly madewith the intention that the hearer identify whomthe speaker has in mind.
For example,23 A person I know did not take out thegarbage as he had promised...Here, identification is obviously required, but it doesnot matter at all how the referent is identified.
Theindefinite description is, therefore, only functionallyrelevant.
In contrast, consider the following24 A cardioeaacuclar s~ci~t told me that Iexercise too much.Although the identity of the physician is not impor-tant, the fact that he is a cardiovascular specialistsurely is.
The indefinite description is, therefore,con~ersatiqnally relevant.Deborah Dalai discusses interesting cases in whichan indefinite description is both spe?if~ (i.e., usedwith the intention that the hearer know the identityof the referent) and attributive (that is, conversa-tionally relevant).
Here is one of her examples:25 Dr. Smith told me that exercise helps.
SinceI heard it from a doctor, I'm inclined tobelieve it \[Dahl 1984\].Clearly, an accurate interpretation of aa doctor ~would connect he referent with Dr. Smith.
At thesame time, the use of the indefinite description high-lights a property of Smith which is conversationallyrelevant.
Note that the indefinite description isusedto implicate a universal generaliffiation, namely, thatin view of what doctors know, any doctor who givesyou an advice, should (other things being equal) belistened to.
This is very similar in structure to theimplkature that is typically associated with conver-sationally relevant definite descriptions.As is the case with definite descriptions, uch usesof indefinite descriptions can accomplish other pur-poses besides (or instead of) implicating a universalgsneralization.
For example,26 In fact, the Dewey-Truman matchupillustrates the point.
Mr. Truman wasthought o be a weak leader who could notcarry out his strong predecessor's program.His election prospects were bleak.
Thepundits were against him and a highlysuccessful Northe~tsrn Governor waspoised to sweep into the White House.
(New York Times, May 26, 1988)'The calculation of the impllcature conveyed by theindefinite description is left as an exercise for thereader.REFERENCESAllen, J. F. 1978.
Recogn/~/ng Intention in Dia-logue.
Ph.D.
di~s., University of Toronto.Allen, J. F. and C. R. Perrault.
1978.
Participat-ing in dialogues: understanding via plan de-duction.
In Proceedings , Canadian Society forComputational Studies of Intelligence.ALlen, J. F. and C. R. Perrault.
1980.
Analyzingintention in dialogues.
Artificial Intelligence,15(3):143-178.Appelt, D. E. 1985.
Planning Engl~h Sentences.Cambridge Univ.
Press, Cambridge.Dahl, Deborah A.
1984.
Recognizing sepcific at-tributes, presented at the 59th Annum Meet-ing of the Linguistic Society of America.
Bal-timore.4In this op-ed, piece the author argues that polls showingMichael Dukakis leading George Bush in the race for the pres-idency do not mean much.
Note that in May 1988, Dukakisis the Governor of Mauachusetts, a Northeastern state.66Gross, B. J. and C. L. Sidner.
1986.
Attention, in-tantions, and the structure of discourse.
Com-putational I,infuiatics, 12(3):175-204.Krat~r, A.
1977.
What 'must' and 'can' mustand can mean.
Linguia64:s and Philosophy,1(1):337-335.Kratser, A.
1979.
Conditional necessity and pos-edbility.
In U.Egli R.l~uerle and A.Von Ste.chow, editors, Semantics for Different Point8of Fie,o, pp.
117-147, Spriager-Verlag , Berlin.Krat~r, A.
1981.
The notional category of modal-ity.
In H. J. Eikmeyer and H. Rieeer, stil-ton, Words, Worlds, and Contexts: New Ap-proaches in Word Semantlcs, pp.
38-74, Walterde Gruyter, Berlin.Kronfeld, A.
1986.
Donnellan's distinction and xcomputational model of reference.
In Proceed-infs of the P~th Annual Meeting, pp.
186-191,AJmociation for Computational Linguistic&Kroafeld, A.
1990.
Reference and Computation:an Eesall in Applied Philosophy of Language.Cambridge Univ.
Press, Cambridge.Perranlt, C. R. , J. F. Alien, and P. R. Cohen.1978.
Speech acts as a basis for understandingdialogue coherence.
In TINI, AP-?, pp.
125-132, University of m~nois, Urbana~Champaign.Searle, J. R. 1969.
Speech Ac~: An Essay inthe Philosophy of Language.
Cambridge Univ.Press, Cambridge.Sidner, C. L. 1983.
What the speaker means: therecognition of speakers' plans in discourse.
In.ternational Journal of Computers and Mathe.rustics, 9(1):71-82.Sidner, C. L. 1985.
Plan parsing for intended re-sponse recognition i discourse.
ComputationalIntelligence, 1(1):1-10.Strawson, P. F. 1971.
On referring.
In J.F Rosen-berg and C. Travis, editors, Reading in thePhilosophy of Language, Prentice Hall, Engle-wood, N. J.Waiters, R. S. 1967.
The Encyclopedia ofPhilos-ophy, pp.
410-414.
Volume 4, Macmillan, NewYork.
s.v.
"laws of science and lawlike state-ments'.67
