GETT ING AT D ISCOURSE REFERENTSRebecca J. PassonneauUNISYS, Paoli Research CenterP.O.
Box 517, Paoli, PA 19301, USAABSTRACTI examine how discourse anaphoric uses of thedefinite pronoun it contrast with similar uses ofthe demonstrative pronoun thai.
Their distinctcontexts of use are characterized in terms of twocontextual features- -pers lstence of  g rammat i -cal sub jec t  and pers i s tence  of  gr,~mmaticalform--which together demonstrate very clearlythe interrelation among lexical choice, grammati-cal choices and the dimension of time in signallingthe dynamic attentional state of a discourse.1 Introduct ionLanguages vary in the number and kinds of gram-matical distinctions encoded in their nominal andpronominal systems.
Language specific meansfor explicitly mentioning and re-mentioning dis-course entities constrain what Grosz and Sidnerrefer to as the linguistic structure of discourse \[2\].This in turn constrains the ways in which dis-course participants can exploit linguistic structurefor indicating or inferring attentional state.
At-tentional state, Grosz and Sidner's term for thedynamic representation f the participants' focusof attention \[2\], represents--among other things-which discourse ntities are currently most salient.One function of attentional state is to help resolvepronominal references.
English has a relativelyimpoverished set of definite pronouns in whichgender is relevant only in the 3rd person singu-lar, and where number---a fairly universal nominalcategory--is not relevant in the 2nd person.
Yeteven within the English pronominal system, thereis a semantic ontrast hat provides language userswith alternative means for accessing the same pre-viously mentioned entities, therefore providing in-vestigators of language with an opportunity to ex-plore how distinct lexicogrammatical features cor-relate with distinct attentional processes.
Thisis the contrast between demonstrative and non-demonstrative pronouns.
In this paper I examinehow certain uses of the singular definite pronoun itcontrast with similar uses of the singular demon-strative pronoun that.I present evidence that the two pronouns it andthat have pragmatically distinct contexts of usethat can be characterized in terms of a remarkablysimple set of preconditions.
First, in ?2 1 delineatethe precise nature of the comparison made here.
In?3.1, I describe the methods I used to collect andanalyze a set of data drawn from ordinary con-versational interactions.
The result of my statisti-cal analysis was a single, highly significant multi-dimensional distributional model, showing lexieaichoice to be predicted by two features of the lo-cal context.
In ?3.2, I summarize the statisticalresults.
They were strikingly clearcut, and pro-vide confirmation that grammatical choices madeby participants in a dialogue prior to a particularpoint in time correlate with lexical choice of eitherparticipant at that time.Of over a dozen different variables that wereexamined, two alone turned out to have enor-mons predictive power in distinguishing betweenthe typical contexts for the two pronouns.
Verybriefly, the first variable, pers i s tence  of  gram-mat ica l  sub ject ,  indicates whether both the an-tecedent and pronoun were subjects of their re-spective clauses.
The second, pers i s tence  ofg rammat ica l  form,  indicates whether the an-tecedent was a single word phrase or a multi-word phrase, and if the latter, whether the phrasewas syntactically more clause-like or more noun-like.
Both variables point up the significance ofthe temporal dimension of discourse in two ways.The first has to do with the evanescence of sur-face syntactic form--the two features pertainingto the grammatical means used to refer to entitiesare relevant only for a short time, namely acrosstwo co-references \[17\].
The second has to do withthe dual nature of referring expressions--as notedby Isard they are constrained by the prior con-text but immediately alter the contezt and becomepart of it \[3\] \[18\].
In ?4 I discuss how the contrastbetween the definite and demonstrative pronounsis constrained by the local discourse context, and51how the constraining features of the local contextin combination with the lexical contrast providesevidence about modelling the attentional state ofdiscourse.2 Comparabi l i ty  of it and thatPrevious work has related the discourse deicticuses of that to the global segmental structure ofdiscourse, and tied the contrast between it andthat to the distinction between units of informa-tion introduced at the level of discourse segmentsversus units of information introduced at the levelof the constituent structure of sentences \[8\] \[12\]\[18\].
This paper deals only with the latter cate-gory.
That is, I am concerned with entities thatare evoked into the discourse model by explicitmentions, i.e., noun phrases \[19\] or other intra-sentential constituents, and with the difference be-tween accessing these referents via the definite ver-sus the demonstrative pronoun.
Thus the data re-ported on here are restricted to cases where one ofthese pronouns has occurred with an explicit lin-guistic antecedent that is a syntactic argument.
1A pronoun's antecedent was taken to be a priorlinguistic expression evoking (or re-evoking) a dis-course entity that provided a pronoun's referent.The two expressions were not constrained to bestrictly coreferential since a wide variety of seman-tic relationships may hold between cospecifyingexpressions \[I\] \[16\] [19\].Syntactically it and that have very similar--though not identical--privileges of occurrence.
2The following bullets briefly summarize their syn-tactic differences.?
that, but not it, is categorially ambiguous, oc-curring either as a determiner or as an inde-pendent pronoun?
it, but not that, has a reflexive and a posses-sive form ( itself/*thatsel~,, its/*thats)?
it, but not that, may occur in prepositionalphrases where the pronoun in the PP coreferswith a c-commanding NP (the table with adrawer in i tp that )x Pronouns whose antecedents were independent tensedclauses or clausal conjuncts were excluded from considera-tion here; I reported on a much larger class of contexts int12   42;ext,.
ch  .
mmate betw n thcm.
.t _tically occurred very rarely in my data.?
it, but not that, can be used non-referentially( it/*that is raining; it/*that is hard to find anhonest politician)These differences, though they may ultimatelypertain to the phenomena presented here, won't bediscussed further.
In general, that can occur withthe same syntactic types of antecedents with whichit occurs.
Thus, apart from prosodic differences--which were not considered here---the two pronounsare extremely comparable semantically as well assyntactically.
Both pronouns are 3rd person, non-animate, and singular.
They are thus primarilydistinguished by the semantic feature of demon-strativity.An  unforeseen but interesting fact is that theproximal demonstrative this occurred very rarely.So the relevant semantic contrast was that be-tween definiteness and demonstrativity, and didnot include the proximal/non-proximal contrastassociated with this versus that.
While I hadoriginally planned to investigate the contrast be-tween the two demonstrative pronominals as well,there were only 8 tokens of this out of ,,-700 pro-nouns whose antecedents were sentence internalarguments.
This strongly suggests that howeverthe attentional space of discourse entities is struc-tured, it is not as differentiated as in the spatio-temporal domain, where the contrast between thisand that is apparently more relevant.
With respectto the contexts examined here, the proximal/non-proximal contrast between this and that is irrele-vant.A stretch of discourse evokes a set of discourseentities, some of which can be accessed pronomi-nally.
Of  these, some can be accessed by it, andsome can be accessed by that.
The data I presentsuggest that the availability of focussed entities fordefinite and demonstrative pronominal referencediffers, and that the consequences on the subse-quent attentional state also differs.
The conditionson and consequences of speaker choice of it or thatmust be pragmatic, and further, it is likely thatthe choice pertains to attentional state, since bothpronominaiization a d demonstrativity play sucha large role in indicating the attentional status oftheir referents (cf.
\[8\], \[15\], \[18\]).The following excerpts from my conversationaldata illustrate the syntactic variety of the pro-nouns' antecedents, and give a sense as well thatsubstituting one pronoun for another sometimesresults in an equally natural sounding discourse,with the difference being a very subtle one, as52in 2.
3 Occasionally, the substitution creates dis-course that is pragmatically odd, as in 6.1.
A: so \[you plan to\] work for a while, savesome money, travel--B: save SOME MONEYand then blow IT (/THAT) off and then goto school2.
what does NOTORIETY mean to you, wheredoes THAT (/IT) put you3.
I didn't really want TO (PAUSE) TEACH PEO-PLE, THAT (/IT) wasn't the main focus4.
so in some ways, I'd like TO BE MY OWN BOSS,so THAT (/IT)'s something that in some wayappeals to me very much5.
the drawback is THAT I'M ON CALL 24 HOURSA DAY but IT ( /THAT)  also means I get dif-ferent periods of time off6.
I don't think EACH SITUATION IS INHERENTLYDIFFERENT FROM THE OTHER,  at least, THAT(/IT)'s not the way I look at itIn this paper, I focus on the linguistic featuresof the local context, i.e., the context containing apronoun token and its antecedent, in order to in-vestigate the relationship between the pronominalfeatures of demonstrativity and definiteness andthe local attentional state of a discourse.3 Statistical Analysis of theConversational Data3.1 MethodPsychologists and sociologists studying face-to-face interaction have argued that the baseline ofinteractive behavior is dyadic rather than monadic\[4\] \[9\]; similarly, in understanding how speak-ers cooperatively construct a discourse, the base-line behavior must be dialogic rather than mono-logic.
The analytic methods employed here wereadapted from those used in studying social inter-action among individuals.
I analyzed the localcontext of lexical choice between it and that infour career-counseling interviews.
The interviews3The relevant pronoun tokens and their antecedentsappear  in CAPS, and the substituted pronoun appears inparentheses to the r ight of  the original.
A: and B: are usedto dist inguish two speakers, where relevant.
Text enclosedin brackets was added by the author  to clarify the context.took place in a college career-counseling office, andwere not staged.
The final corpus consisted ofover 3 1/2 hours of videotaped conversation be-tween counselors and students.
This provided anexcellent source of data, with the speakers con-tributing tokens of it/that at the rate of roughly 1in every 2 sentences, or a total of 1,183 tokens inall.
Nearly all of these were indexed and coded for16 contextual variables characterizing the linguis-tic structure of the local context.
4 These variablesfell into two classes: those pertaining to the rdN-EAR ORGANIZATION OF DISCOURSE, or  to  the re-spective locations of the antecedent and pronoun~ 5and those pertaining to the SYNTACTIC FORM ofthe antecedent expression.Statistical analysis was used as a discovery pro-cedure for finding the strongest determinants oflexical choice, rather than to test a particular hy-pothesis.
The goal was to find the best \]it betweenthe contextual variables and lexical choice, i.e.,to include in a final statistical model only thosevariables which were highly predictive.
I used log-linear statistical methods to construct a single bestmulti-dimensional model; log-linear analysis per-mits the use of the x-square statistic for greaterthan 2-dimensional tables.
This is advantageous,because multi-dimensionality imposes more con-straints on the statistical model, and is thus evenmore reliable than 2-dimensional tables in reveal-ing non-chance correlations.
In addition to multi-dimensionality, three other criteria guided the se-lection of the best \]it: a statistically significantprobability for the table, meaning a probability of5.0% or lower; statistical independence of the pre-dictive variables from one another, i.e., that theyrepresented truly distinct phenomena, rather thanoverlapping factors; and finally, that the distribu-tional patterns were the same for each individualspeaker and for each separate conversation, in or-der to justify pooling the data into a single set.
6The antecedents of some of the pronouns oc-curred in the interlocutor's speech, but change of4Certain repetit ions, e.g., false starts,  were excludedfrom consideration; cf.
chapter 2 of 1131SLacation was construed very abstractly, and included,e.g., measures of whether the antecedent and pronoun werein the same, adjacent, or more distant sentences; howdeeply embedded syntactically the antecedent and pronounwere; how many referential expres~ons with the same orconflicting semantic features of person, number and genderintervened between the pronoun and its antecedent; andtheir respective grammatical roles \[131.6The reliability of the data was tested by comparingwithin- and across-subjects statistical measures; i.e., I tookinto account the data for the conversations as a whole, eachindividual conversation, and each individual speaker \[13\].53IT Form of Gram'lAnt't RolesPronoun Subj-SubjOtherNP Subj-SubjOtherNou-NP Subj-SubjArg OtherOther Subj-SubjOtherColumn Totals14711090182518416Absolute DistributionsTHAT RowTotals31 17854 1646 2488 1783 666 912 712 30262 678Main and Interaction EffectsSourceInterceptForm of AntecedentGrammatical RolesLikelihood RatioDegrees of X- Proba-Freedom Square bility1 12.71 0.00043 39.37 0.00011 16.87 0.0001:3 0.35 0.9509Table I: A Multi-Dimensional Statistical Model ofLexical Choicespeaker within the local context had no effect onlexical choice, either alone, or in concert with otherfactors.
Before pooling the data from all con-versations and all individual speakers into a sin-gle population, the variability across conversationsand speakers was tested and found to be insignif-icant.
Thus the results presented below representa speaker behavior--lexical choice of pronoun mthat is extraordinarily consistent across speakers,that is independent of whether a pronoun and itsantecedent occurred in the same speaker's turn,independent of individual speaker and even of in-dividual conversation.
Consequently, it is justifi-able to assume that the factors found to predictlexical choice pertain to communicatively relevantpurposes.
In other words, whatever these factorsare, they presumably pertain not only to modelsof speech production, but also to models of speechcomprehension.3.2  Resu l tsTable 1 gives the d istr ibut ion of pronouns acrossthe relevant contexts and gives the probabi l i t iesand x-squares for the two contextual  variablesand their intercept, i.e., the interact ion betweenthem/  The very low probabi l i ty  of 0.04% for7Note that the 4th category of Antecedent--Other--includes a mixture of atypical arguments, primarily adver-bial in nature, like the adverbial argument of go in go far.I Form Subsequen i Pronounof Subject Non-SubjectAntecedent IT I THAT IT I THATPronominal 147 31 39 19Subject 96.0 48.7 48?7 42.427.1 6.4 1.9 12.9Pronominal 37 21 34 14Non-Subject 43.1 21.9 21.9 19.1.9 .0 6 .7  1?3NP 18 6 Ii 10Subject 18.3 9.3 9.3 8.1.0 1.1 .3 ?1NP 43 33 36 45Non-Subject 63.9 32.4 32.4 28.26.8 .0 .4 10.0Non-NP 8 5 1 1Subject 6.1 3.1 3.1 2.7.6 1.2 1.4 I .
INon-NP 23 44 19 33Non-Subject 48.4 24.6 24.6 21.413.3  15 .3  1.3 6 .3Table x-Square 116.3Degrees of Freedom 7Probability 0.001Table 2: A Two-Way Distributional View of theData, showing Absolute Frequency, Expected Fre-quency, and x-squares for each Cellthe intercept indicates that the two variables axeclearly independent, or in other words, repre-sent two distinct contexts.
The exceedingly lowprobabilities of 0.01% for the contextual variablesand the highly significant table x-square (i.e.,close to 1) indicate that the model is extremelysignificant, s The correlation between the depen-dent dimension of lexical choice and the two inde-pendent dimensions, persistence of g rnmmat -i ca l  sub jec t  and pers i s tence  o f  g rammat i -ca l  fo rm,  presents an intuit ively very satisfyingv iew- -yet  not an obvious one a pr ior i - - -of  howall three variables conspire together to convey thecurrent at tent ional  status of a discourse referent?F i rst  I will summarize the effects of the two con-textual  variables one at a t ime.
Then I will reviewthe d ist r ibut ional ly  signif icant facts as a whole.F i r s t  D imens ion :  Pers i s tence  o f  Grammat -i ca l  Sub jec t .
The first dimension of the modelis b inary and the two contexts it defines are ind iametr ic  opposit ion to one another;  it was likelySThe cutoff is generally 5%; 1% is deemed to be verysignificant.54to occur in exactly one of the two contexts, andthat was likely to occur in the opposing context.
Ifboth referring expressions were subjects, then thelexical choice was far more likely to be it than that.All it took for the balance to swing in favor of thedemonstrative was for either the pronoun itself orfor its antecedent to be a non-subject.
The tworelevant contexts, then are:?
those in which both the antecedent and thetarget pronoun are syntactic subjects; =~ IT?
all other contexts.
=~ THATParallelism has sometimes been suggested as anorganizing factor across clauses.
It is certainly astrong stylistic device, but did not make a strongenough independent contribution to the statisticalmodel to be included as a distinct variable.
Torepeat, the crucial factor was found to be thatboth expressions were subjects, not that both hadthe same grammatical function in their respectiveclauses.
In ?4.1 I will review the relationship ofthese results to the centering literature \[I\] \[5\] \[6\].Second D imens ion :  Pers i s tence  o f  Gram-mat ica l  Form.
While many grammatical dis-tinctions among sentence constituents are possi-ble, the syntactic form of a pronoun's antecedentcorrelated with the choice between it and that inthe following very specific way.
The 3 discriminat-ing contexts were where the antecedent was:?
any pronoun--the lexical choice for an an-tecedent pronoun had no effect on the lexicalchoice of the subsequent pronoun; =~ IT?
a canonical ~P headed by a noun (includingnominalizations); =~ IT or THAT?
and all other types of constituents.
=~ THATThe latter category included gerundives, infiniti-val expressions, and embedded finite clauses.
9 Forcontexts with a pronominal antecedent, he lexicalchoice was far more likely to be it.
For canonicalNP antecedents, it and that were equally likely, re-gardless of the type of head.
For other types ofconstituents, that was far more likely.
Thus thereare two opposing contexts and one which doesn'tdiscriminate between the two pronouns, i.e., a con-text in which the opposition is neutralized.?Cf.
\[14\] for & detai led discussion of how the precisedividing llne between types of antecedents  was determined.The dynamic component of this dimension isthat it indicates, for a consecutive pair of co-specifying expressions, whether there has been ashift towards a surface form that is syntacticallymore compact and semantically less explicit, andif so, how great a shift.
In the first context, wherethe antecedent is already pronominal, there is noshift, and it has a much higher probability of oc-currence than that.
The context in which there is ashift from a lexical NP to a phrasal NP, i.e., a shiftfrom a reduced form to an unreduced one, but nocategorial shift, doesn't discriminate between thetwo pronouns.
The context favoring that is theone in which there is not only a shift from a singleword to a multi-word phrase, but also a change inthe categorial status of the phrase from a non-NPconstituent to a lexical NP.Full 3 -way mode l .
Table 2 displays the data ina finer-grained two-dimensionai x-square table inorder to show separately all 4 of the possible out-comes, i.e., it or that as a subject or non-subject.In this table, the row headings represent he an-tecedent's form and grammatical role; the columnheadings represent he lexical choice and gram-matical role of the subsequent pronominal expres-sion.
Each cell of the table indicates the absolutefrequency, the expected frequency given a non-chance distribution, and the cell x-square, withthe latter in boldface type to indicate the signif-icant cells.
This is a somewhat more perspicu-ous view of the data because it can be displayedschematically in terms of initial states, final states,and enhanced, suppressed or neutral transitions,as in Fig.
1.
However, it is also a somewhat mis-leading transformation of the 3-dimensional viewgiven in table 1, because it suggests that the gram-matical role of a pronoun and that of its an-tecedent are independent factors.
Since the sta-tistical model shown in table I is actually the bestfit of the data, better than other models that weretested in which the grammatical role of each ex-pression was treated separately \[13\], it is crucial torecognize that the statistically significant factor isthe pair-wise comparison of subject status.Large cell x-squares in Table 2 indicate the sig-nificant contexts, and a comparison of the absoluteand expected frequencies in these cells indicatewhether the context is significantly frequent or sig-nificantly infrequent.
Thus there ar~ 3 types ofcells in the table representing the contexts of lexi-ca\] choice as chance events, as enhanced events, oras suppressed events.
In Fig.
1, I have translated551.
Pro-Subj  ~" IT-Subj2.
-I THAT-Subj3.
IT-NonSubj4.
-I THAT-NonSubj5.
Pro-NonSubj IT-Subj6.
THAT-Subj7.
I- IT-NonSubj8.
THAT-NonSubj9.
NP-Subj IT-Subj10.
THAT-Subj11.
IT-NonSubj12.
THAT-NonSubj13.
NP-NonSub j  -~ IT-Subj14.
THAT-Subj15.
IT-NonSubj16.
t- THAT-NonSubj17.
NonNP-Subj18.19.20.21.
NonNP-NonSub j  -I IT-Subj22.
I- THAT-Subj23.
IT-NonSubj24.
I- THAT-NonSubjFigure 1: Schematic Representation of Table 2 asa set of State Transitionsthe table into a set of 3 types of state transitions.Initial states are in the left column and final statesin the right one.
The 3 types of transition are onewhich is unaffected by the contrast between it andthat (no symbol), one which is enhanced (~-), andone which is suppressed (-t).
The initial states inboldface indicate for each antecedent type whichof the two grammatical role states was more likely,subject or non-subject.
Absence of final states forthe nonNP-Subj initial state indicates that this setof contexts is extremely rare.
In the following sec-tion, I discuss the relation of these events to anabstract model of attentional state.4 D iscuss ionThe outcome of this study is not a model of at-tentionai processes per #e, but rather, a set of fac-tors pertaining to attentional structure that elu-cidates the shifting functions of the demonstra-tive pronoun in English discourse.
The particularfunction served by that seems to depend on whatfunctional contrasts are available given the currentattentionai state.It is most useful to think of the data in termsof two major categories of phenomena.
The firstcategory is where a discourse entity has alreadybeen mentioned pronominally.
In this case, main-tenance of reference in subject grammatical role isa particularly signficant determinant of the choicebetween it and that.
This effect is discussed in?4.1 in relation to the notion of centering.
Thesecond category is where a discourse entity mostrecently evoked by a multi-word phrase is subse-quently referenced by a pronoun.
While gram-matical role is relevant here, its relevance seemsto depend on a more salient distinction pertainingto the syntactico-semantic ype of the discourseentity, as discussed in ?4.2.4.1 Definite/DemonstrativePronouns and CenteringThe literature on attentionai state has shown thatboth pronominalization and grammatical role af-fect the attentionai status of a discourse ntity.
Inthis section I will show how the use of the definitepronoun it conforms in particular to the predic-tions made by Kameyaxna \[6\] \[5\] regarding canon-icai and non-canonical center-retention, and thatthe demonstrative pronoun is incompatible withcenter-retention.The centering model predicts that an utterancewill contain a referent hat is distinguished as thebackward looking center (Cb) \[1\], and that if theCb of an utterance is coreferentlai with the Cb ofthe prior utterance, it will be pronominallzed \[1\].Kameyama \[6\] proposes that there are two meansfor retaining a discourse entity as the Cb, canon-ical center-retention--both references in subjectrole--and non-canonical center retention--neitherreference in subject role.
As shown in Fig.
1,the most enhanced context for lexical choice of it(context 1) was where both the pronoun and itspronominal antecedent were subjects, i.e., canoni-cal center-retention.
The next most enhanced con-text for it (context 7) was where neither the pro-noun nor its pronominal antecedent were subjects,i.e., non-canonical center-retention.
Thus, the def-inite pronoun correlates with both canonical andnon-canonical center retention.Lexical choice of it is actively suppressed incontexts which are incompatible with center-retention.
Note in Fig.
1 that if the antecedent isneither a pronoun nor a subject, a subsequent ref-erence via it in subject role is suppressed (contexts13 and 21).
The only (non-rare) context where anit subject is neither enhanced nor suppressed is56where the antecedent is a canonical NP in subjectrole (context 9) (cf.
?4.2).The demonstrative pronoun is actively sup-pressed in the case of canonical center-retention(context 2); i.e, given two successive pronominalreferences to the same entity where reference ismaintained in subject role, the referent's atten-tional state is such that it precludes demonstrativereference.
Use of that is also suppressed if the an-tecedent is a potential candidate for canonical cen-ter retention, even if reference is not maintainedin subject role (context 4).Attentional state is only one component of adiscourse structure.
The discourse model as awhole will contain representations of many of thethings to whcih the discourse participants can sub-sequently refer, including discourse ntities evokedby NPs, and additionally, as argued by Webber\[18\], discourse segments.
Webber notes that dis-course segment referents may have a different startus from the discourse entities evoked by NPs,at least until they have been pronominally refer-enced.
However, she suggests that when a demon-strative pronoun refers to a discourse entity, itaccesses that entity by a process which first in-volves accessing the discourse segment in whichthe discourse ntity is introduced.
In other words,she posits two distinct referential processes, de-ictic and anaphoric reference, and suggests thateven when a demonstrative pronoun refers to adiscourse entity, the process of finding the refer-ent is distinct in kind from anaphoric referenceto the same entity.
While I have no evidence thatbears directly on such a claim, my data do indicatethat some entities in a discourse segment are ordi-narily unavailable via the demonstrative pronoun,namely entities that would be expected canonicalcenters, as described in the preceding paragraph.Thus my data support he view that there are dis-tinct processes for accessing entities in the model.It is relevant to note here that the notion ofeb is generally discussed in terms of links betweensuccessive utterances.
Since there is an extraor-dinary frequency of conjoined sentences in con-versational language, I distinguished between ut-terances and independent clauses within an ut-terance.
The successive references in my datawere in successive sentences a majority of the time(roughly 2/3; cf.
\[13\]), but were sometimes sepa-rated by one or more sentences (roughly 1/6) andsometimes occurred in the same sentence (roughly1/6).
This distance factor had no correlation withlexical choice of pronoun, which suggests that dis-course segment structure interacts with centering.The relevant local context for center-retention maynot be successive sentences/utterances, but rather,successive sentences/utterances within the samediscourse segment.
In any case, for the data pre-sented here, the relevant local context consisted oftwo successive co-specifying phrases, not two suc-cessive utterances.Since the primary objective of this study wasto examine various features of the context imme-diately preceding a given type of pronoun, ratherthan to track the discourse history of particularentities, little can be said here about the generalcase of multiple successive references to the sameentity.
However, I did investigate a subset of thisgeneral case, namely, successive pronominal refer-ences to the same entity where the initial men-tion was a canonical NP, and where each next co-specifying pronoun served as the antecedent for asubsequent pronoun.
I refer to these as pronounchains.
1?
The relative likelihood of it and thatwas the same for the first slot in the chain, whichconforms to the general distribution for pronounswith NP antecedents.
The ratio of it to that in thelast position of a chain conforms to chance, i.e., itequals the ratio of it to that in the pronoun chainsample.
But within a chain, that is strongly pre-dicted by pers i s tence  o f  g rammat ica l  form.The demonstrative occured rarely within chains,but where it did occur, either the demonstrativetoken or its antecedent was a non-subject.
Thiswas found to he the only factor pertaining to lin-guistic structure that affected the occurrence ofthat within a pronoun chain.A final set of conclusions derived from thepronominal initial states in Fig.
1 pertains to thenon-predictive contexts, i.e., those which neitherenhance nor suppress center-retention, and thosewhich neither enhance nor suppress demonstrativereference.
These are cases where there is eithera shift in grammatical role, or where the lexicalchoice is that (contexts 3, 5, 6 and 8).
When a cen-ter is not retained across two successive utterances(in the same discourse segement), then it is likelythat the global context is affected \[1\], perhaps by acenter-shift (cf.
\[5\]), or by a segment boundary (cf.\[7\], \[11\]).
Centers eem generally to be unavailablefor demonstrative r ference, but contexts 6 and 8l?The term ~nm to have appeared in the philosophicaland llngu~tic literature at about the same time, e.g., inworlm by K. Donnellan, C. Chastain, M. Halliday and D.Zubin.
There were a total of 101 such chains comprising305 total pronoun toker~; they ranged in length from 2 to13 pronomm.57in Fig.
1 perhaps represent a mechanism wherebyan entity maintained as center can become avail-able for demonstrative reference; e.g., context 6may coincide with the chaining context discussedin the preceding paragraph, whereby a locally fo-cussed entity can be accessed by that just in casethe prior reference was a non-subject.
Context8 suggests that demonstrative reference is moreavailable in contexts of non-canonical center re-tention than canonical center retention.4.2 Non-Centered Discourse Enti-tiesI have argued elsewhere that the crucial dis-tinction for the category of non-pronominal an-tecedents is the contrast between true NPS withNP syntax, versus all other types of syntactic argu-ments (\[12\] [14\]).
This raises two important issuespertaining to the status of the discourse entitiesevoked by Nl's versus other kinds of arguments.The first is that if non-NP arguments evoke dis-course entities, which they certainly must, suchentities apparently have a different status in themodel than discourse ntities evoked by NPs, giventhat the combination of lexical choice between itand that and grammatical function so clearly dis-tinguish them.
The second issue is that althoughthe difference in status seems--at first blush--tocorrelate with a syntactic property, the distinctionmay ultimately be semantic in nature.
I will dis-cuss each issue in turn.Two of the non-pronominal initial states in Fig.1 are distinguished by neither enhancing nor sup-pressing any of the possible transitions to it orthat: NP subjects (9-12), and non-NV non-subjects(17-20).
The extreme rarity of the latter suggeststhat non-NPs don't occur as grammatical subjects,or that when they do, they are not likely to be re-evoked by a pronoun.
On the other hand, NP sub-jects are fairly frequent in the contexts where itor that occurs with a non-pronominal ntecedent,thus the absence here of enhanced or suppressedtransitions uggests that an entity mentioned asan NP subject is free to be accessed in a varietyof ways, or more precisely, that it has a relativelyunspecified attentional state.
It is neither a par-ticularly likely Cb nor is it particularly available orunavailable for demonstrative r ference.The two remaining non-subject initial states,i.e., NP non-subjects and non-NP non-subjects,both suppress ubsequent reference via it subjects,as mentioned in the previous section.
While NPsubjects apparently have a somewhat unspecifiedattentional status, NP non-subjects enhance thelexical choice of non-subject hat.
It appears thatdiscourse ntities evoked by NPs which are not sub-jects are in an attentional state that is quite dif-ferent from that of canonical center retention.It is especially interesting that when the an-tecedent is a non-NP non-subject, a subsequentpronominal reference is most likely to be demon-strative, and most likely to be a subjectJ  1 The en-hancement of a that-subject context is completelycontrary to the pattern established for subjectsand for the demonstrative pronoun.
These factscontribute to the view that entities evoked by non-NP constituents have'a  special status, but whatthis status is remains to be determined.
In pre-vious work, I emphasized the syntactic distinc-tion with respect to lexical choice between it andthat \[14\].
Although the most obvious differenceis the purely syntactic one, the syntactic distinc-tion between NP and non-NP constituents has anumber of semantico-pragmatic consequences.
Indiscussing the nominal and temporal anaphorawithin Kamp's framework of discourse represen-tation structures (DRS), Partee raised the ques-tion of the difference in status between event-describing clauses and nominalizations \[10\].
In-dependent clauses differ from the class of non-NP constituents under consideration here in thatthe latter occur as arguments of superordinateverbs, and are thus entities participating in a de-scribed situation, as well as descriptions of situa-tions.
However, true noun phrases--whether theydescribe vents or not- -can have definite or indef-inite determiners, and cannot have tense or anyaspectual categories associated with the verb.
Thestudy presented here brings us no closer to a so-lution to the questions posed by Partee regardingthe ontology and representation of different kindsof event descriptions, but it does offer further con-firmation that entities evoked by NP and non-sPconstituents have a different conceptual status,given the different possibilities for lexical choiceand grammatical role of a subsequent pronominalmention.5 Conc lus ionThe following bullets encapsulate the observationsmade in ?4:11Cf.
examples 3-6 in ?2 for illustrations.58?
Lexical choice of it indicates canonical or non-canonical center retention?
Lexical choice of it in subject role conflictswith non-subject antecedents, but is compat-ible with an NP-subject antecedent?
Lexical choice of that blocks canonical centerretention?
Lexical choice of that may be more compatiblewith non-canonical center retention?
Lexical choice of that in subject role is mostlikely when the antecedent is a non-NP con-stituent?
Lexical choice of that is enhanced when theantecedent is a non-NP constituent?
Lexical choice of that is enhanced when theantecedent NP is a non-subject?
NP subjects have a relatively unspecified at-tentional statusACKNOWLEDGEMENTSThe data collection and statistical analysis were sup-ported by Sloan Foundation Grant 1-5680-22-4898.The computational analysis and preparation of the pa-per were supported by DARPA Contract N00014-85-C-0012.
Many thanks to Elena Levy, Deborah Dahl,Megumi Kameyama, Carl Weir, Bonnie Webber andDavid Searls for helpful discussion, commentary andcriticism.Bibliography\[1\] B. J. Grosz, A. K. Joshi, and S. Weinstein.
Pro-riding a unified account of definite noun phrasesin discourse.
In Proceedings of the ~lst An-nual Meeting of the Association for Computa-tional Linguistics, pages 44-50, 1983.\[2\] B. J. Grosz and C. L. Sidner.
Attention, inten-tions and the structure of discourse.
Computa-tional Linguistics, 175-204, 1986.\[3\] S. Isard.
Changing the context.
In E.L.Keenan,editor, Formal Semantics of Natural Language,pages 287-296, Cambridge U.
Press, Cambridge,1975.\[4\] S. Duncan Jr., B. Kanki, H. Mokros, and D.Fiske.
Pseudounilaterality, simple-rate variables,and other ills to which interaction research isheir.
Journal of Personality and Social Psychol-ogy, 1335-1348, 1984.\[5\] M. Kameyama.
Computing japanese discourse:grammatical disambiguation with centering con-stralnts.
In Proceedings of University of Manch-ester Institute of Science and Technology: Work-shop on Computing Japanese, 1987.\[6\] M. Kameyama.
A property-sharing constraintin centering.
In Proceedings of the 24th An-nual Meeting of the Association for Computa-tional Linguistics, pages 200-206, 1986.\[7\] E. Levy.
Communicating Thematic Structure inNarrative Discourse: The Use of Referring Termsand Gestures.
PhD thesis, University of Chicago,1984.\[8\] C. Linde.
Focus of attention and the choice ofpronouns in discourse.
In Talmy Givon, editor,Syntax and Semantics: Discourse and Syntax,pages 337-354, Academic Press, New York, 1979.\[9\] H. B. Mokros.
Patterns of Persistence andChange in the Sequencing of Nonverbal Actions.PhD thesis, University of Chicago, 1984.\[10\] B. H. Partee.
Nominal and temporal anaphora.Linguistics and Philosophy, 243-286, 1984.\[11\] R. Reichman.
Getting Computers to Talk LikeYou and Me.
MIT Press, Cambridge, Mas-sachusetts, 1985.\[12\] R. J.
(Passonnean) Schiffman.
Categories of dis-course deixls.
1984.
Presented at the 29th An-nual Conference of the International LinguisticsAssociation.\[13\] R. J.
(Passonneau) Schiffman.
Discourse Con-attaints on it and that: A Study of LanguageUse in Career-Counseling Interviews.
PhD the-sis, University of Chicago, 1985.\[14\] R. J.
(Passonneau) Schiffman.
The two nominalanaphors it and that.
In Proceedings of the ~OthRegional Meeting of the Chicago Linguistic Soci-ety, pages 322-357, 1984.\[15\] C. L. Sidner.
Focusing in the comprehensionof definite anaphora.
In Michael Brady andRobert C. Berwick, editors, Computational Mod.els of Discourse, pages 267-330, The MIT Press,Cambridge, Massachusetts, 1983.\[16\] C. L. Sidner.
Towards a Computational Theoryof Definite Anaphora Comprehension i EnglishDiscourse.
Technical Report, MIT AI Lab, 1979.\[17\] M. Silverstein.
Cognitive implications of a refer-ential hierarchy.
1980.
Unpublished ms.\[18\] B. L. Webber.
Discourse deixis: reference todiscourse segments.
In Proceedings of the ~6thAnnual Meeting of the Association ,for Computa-tional Linguistics, pages 113-122, 1988.\[19\] B. L. Webber.
So what can we talk about now.
InMichael Brady and Robert C. Berwick, editors,Computational Models of Discourse, pages 331-372, The MIT Press, Cambridge, Massachusetts,1983.59
