LOGICAL FORMS IN THECORE LANGUAGE ENGINEHiyan Alshawi & Jan van EijckSRI International Cambridge Research Centre23 Millers Yard, Mill Lane, Cambridge CB2 11ZQ, U.K.Keywords :  logical form, natural anguage, semanticsABSTRACTThis paper describes a 'Logical Form' targetlanguage for representing the literal mean-ing of English sentences, and an interme-diate level of representation ('Quasi LogicalForm') which engenders a natural separationbetween the compositional semantics and theprocesses of scoping and reference resolution.The approach as been implemented in theSRI Core Language Engine which handles theEnglish constructions discussed in the paper.INTRODUCTIONThe SRI Core Language Engine (CLE) isa domain independent system for translat-ing English sentences into formal represen-tations of their literal meanings which arecapable of supporting reasoning (Alshawi etal.
1988).
The CLE has two main lev-els of semantic representation: quasi logicalforms (QLFs), which may in turn be scopedor unscoped, and fully resolved logical forms(LFs).
The level of quasi logical form is thetarget language of the syntax-driven seman-tic interpretation rules.
Transforming QLFexpressions into LF expressions requires (i)fixing the scopes of all scope-bearing opera-tors (quantifiers, tense operators, logical op-erators) and distinguishing distributive read-ings of noun phrases from collective ones, and(ii) resolving referential expressions such asdefinite descriptions, pronouns, indexical ex-pressions, and underspecified relations.The QLF level can be regarded as the nat-ural level of sentence representation resulting25from linguistic analysis that applies composi-tional semantic interpretation rules indepen-dently of the influence of context.Sentence~, syntax rulesParse treessemantic rulesQLF ezpressions~, contextLF expressionsThe QLF expressions are derived on the ba-sis of syntactic structure, by means of se-mantic rules that correspond to the syntaxrules that were used for analysing the sen-tence.
Having QLFs as a well-defined level ofrepresentation allows the problems of com-positional semantics to be tackled separatelyfrom the problems of scoping and referenceresolution.
Our experience so far with theCLE has shown that this separation can ef-fectively reduce the complexity of the systemas a whole.
Also, the distinction enables us toavoid multiplying out interpretation possibil-ities at an early stage.
The representationlanguages we propose are powerful enoughto give weU-motiwted translations of a widerange of English sentences.
In the currentversion of the CLE this is used to provide asystematic and coherent coverage of all themajor phrase types of English.
To demon-strate that the semantic representations arealso simple enough for practical natural an-guage processing applications, the CLE hasbeen used as an interface to a purchase orderprocessing simulator and a database querysystem, to be described elsewhere.In summary, the main contributions of thework reported in this paper are (i) the intro-duction of the QLF level to achieve a naturalseparation between compositional semanticsand the processes of scoping and referenceresolution, and (ii) the integration of a rangeof well-motivated semantic analyses for spe-cific constructions in a single coherent frame-work.We will first motivate our extensions tofirst order logic and our distinction betweenLF and QLF, then describe the LF language,illustrating the logical form translations pro-duced by the CLE for a number of Englishconstructions, and finally present he addi-tional constructs of the QLF language andillustrate their use.EXTENDINGF IRST  ORDER LOGICAs the pioneer work by Montague (1973) sug-gests, first order logic is not the most nat-ural representation for the meanings of En-glish sentences.
The development of Mon-tague grammar indicates, however, that thereis quite a bit of latitude as to the scope of theextensions that are needed.
In developingthe LF language for the CLE we have tried tobe conservative in our choice of extensions tofirst order logic.
Earlier proposals with simi-lar motivation are presented by Moore (1981)and Schubert & Pelletier (1982).The ways in which first order logic--predicate logic in which the quantifiers 3 andV range over the domain of individuals--is ex-tended in our treatment can be grouped andmotivated as follows:?
Extensions motivated by lack of ex-pressive power of ordinary first orderlogic: for a general treatment of nounphrase constructions in English general-ized quantifiers are needed ('Most A areB' is not expressible in a first order lan-guage with just the two one-place pred-icates A and B).?
Extensions motivated by the desire26for an elegant compositional semanticframework:use of lambda abstraction for thetranslation of graded predicates inour treatment of comparatives andsuperlatives;use of tense operators and inten-sional operators for dealing withthe English tense and au~liary sys-tem in a compositional way.?
Extensions motivated by the desire toseparate out the problems of scopingfrom those of semantic representation.?
Extensions motivated by the need todeal with context dependent construc-tions, such as anaphora, and the implicitrelations involved in the interpretation ofpossessives and compound nominals.The first two extensions in the list are partof the LF language, to be described next, theother two have to do with QLF constructs.These QLF constructs are removed by theprocesses of quantifier scoping and referenceresolution (see below).The treatment of tense by means of tempo-ral operators that is adopted in the CLE willnot be discussed in this paper.
Some advan-tages of an operator treatment of the Englishtense system are discussed in (Moore, 1981).We are aware of the fact that some as-pects of our LF representation give what arearguably overly neutral analyses of Englishconstructions.
For example, our uses of eventvariables and of sentential tense operators aylittle about the internal structure of events orabout an underlying temporal logic.
Never-theless, our hope is that the proposed LF rep-resentations form a sound basis for the subse-quent process of deriving the fuller meaningrepresentations.RESOLVEDLOGICAL  FORMSNOTATIONAL CONVENTIONSOur notation is a straightforward extensionof the standard notation for first order logic.The following logical form expression involv-ing restricted quantification states that everydog is nice:quant( fora l l ,  x, Dog(x), Nice(x)).To get a straightforward treatment of thecollective/distributive distinction (see below)we assume that variables always range oversets, with 'normal' individuals correspondingto singletons.
Properties like being a dog canbe true of singletons, e.g.
the referent of Fido,as well as larger sets, e.g.
the referent of thethree dogs we saw yesterday.The LF language allows formation of com-plex predicates by means of lambda abstrac-tion: ,~x,\d.Heavy.degree( z, d) is the predi-cate that expresses degree of heaviness.EVENT AND STATE VARIABLESRather than treating modification of verbphrases by means of higher order predicatemodifiers, as in (Montague, 1973), we followDavidson's (1967) quantification over eventsto keep closer to first order logic.
The eventcorresponding to a verb phrase is introducedas an additional argument to the verb pred-icate.
The full logical form for Every repre-sentative voted is as follows:quant( fora l l ,  x, Repr(x),past (quant (ex is ts ,  e, Ev(e),Vote(e,x)))).Informally, this says that for every represen-tative, at some past time, there existed anevent of that representative oting.The presence of an event variable allowsus to treat optional verb phrase modifiers aspredications of events, as in the translationof John left suddenly:past (quant (ex is ts ,  e, Ev(e),27Leave(e, john) ^  Sudden(e))).The use of event variables in turn permitsus to give a uniform interpretation of prepo-sitional phrases, whether they modify verbphrases or nouns.
For example, John de-signed a house in Cambridge has two read-ings, one in which in Cambridge is taken tomodify the noun phrase a house, and onewhere the prepositional phrase modifies theverb phrase, with the following translationsrespectively:quant (ex ls ts ,  hHouse(h) A In_location(h, Cambridge),past (quant  (exists, e, Ev(e),Design( e, john, h ) ) ) ).quant(ex ls ts ,  h House(h) Apast (quant (ex is ts ,  e, Ev(e),Design(e, john, h) ^In_location(e, Cambridge)))).In both cases the prepositional phrase istranslated as a two-place relation stating thatsomething is located in some place.
Wherethe noun phrase is modified, the relation isbetween an ordinary object and a place; inthe case where the prepositional phrase mod-ifies the verb phrase the relation is betweenan event and a place.
Adjectives in pred-icative position give rise to state variables intheir translations.
For example, in the trans-lation of John was happy in Paris, the prepo-sitional phrase modifies the state.
States arelike events, but unlike events they cannot beinstantaneous.GENERAL IZED QUANTIF IERSA generalized quantifier is a relation Q be-tween two sets A and B, where Q is insensi-tive to anything but the cardinalities of the'restriction set' A and the 'intersection set'A N B (Barwise & Cooper, 1981).
A gen-eralized quantifier with restriction set A andintersection set ANB is fully characterized bya function AmAn.Q(m, n) of m and n, wherem = IAI and n = IANB I.
In theLF lan-guage of the CLE, these quantifier elationsare expressed by means of predicates on twonumbers, where the first variable abstractedover denotes the cardinality of the restrictionset and the second one the cardinality of theintersection set.
This allows us to build upquantifiers for complex specifier phrases likeat least three but less than five.
In simplecases, the quantifier predicates are abbrevi-ated by means of mnemonic names, such asexists,  notexists ,  foral l  or most.
Here aresome quantifier translations:?
most ",.
* Xm,Xn.
(m < 2n) \[abbreviation:most\].?
at least three but less than seven ,,~)tm~n.
(n > 3 ^  n < 7).?
not every .,.
* )~m)~n.
(m ~ n).A logical form for Not every representativevoted is:quant()~mAn.
(m # n), x, Rep(z),past (quant  (exists, e, Ev(e),Vote(e,x)))).Note that in one of the quantifier examplesabove the abstraction over the restriction setis vacuous.
The quantifiers that do dependonly on the cardinality of their intersectionset turn out to be in a linguistically well-defined class: they are the quantifiers thatcan occur in the NP position in "There areNP ' .
This quantifier class can also be char-acterized logically, as the class of symmet-r/c quantifiers: "At least three but less thanseven men were running" is true just in case"At least three but less than seven runnerswere men" is true; see (Barwise & Cooper,1981) and (Van Eijck, 1988) for further dis-cussion.
Below the logical forms for symmet-ric quantifiers will be simplified by omittingthe vacuous lambda binder for the restric-tion set.
The quantifiers for collective andmeasure terms, described in the next section,seem to be symmetric, although linguistic in-tuitions vary on this.COLLECT IVES ANDTERMSMEASURECollective readings are expressed by an ex-tension of the quantifier notation using set.28The reading of Two companies ordered fivecomputers where the first noun phrase is in-terpreted collectively and the second one dis-tributively is expressed by the following log-ical form:quant (set (~n.
(n  = 2)), x, Company(x),quant (~n.
(n  = 5), y,Computer(y),past (quant  (exists,  e, Ev(e),Order(e, x, y))))).The first quantification expresses that thereis a collection of two companies atisfyingthe body of the quantification, so this read-ing involves five computers and five buy-ing events.
The operator set is introducedduring scoping since collective/distributivedistinctionsmlike scoping ambiguities--arenot present in the initial QLF.We have extended the generalized quanti-fier notation to cover phrases with measuredeterminers, uch as seven yards of fabric ora pound of flesh.
Where ordinary generalizedquantifiers involve counting, amount gener-alized quantifiers involve measuring (accord-ing to some measure along some appropriatedimension).
Our approach, which is relatedto proposals that can be found in (Pelletier,ed.,1979) leads to the following translationfor John bought at least five pounds of ap-ples:quant (amount ($n .
(n  >_ 5), pounds),z, Apple(z),past (quant (ex is ts ,  e, Ev(e),Buy( e, john , x))))).Measure expressions and numerical quanti-tiers also play a part in the semantics of com-paratives and superlatives respectively (seebelow).NATURAL K INDSTerms in logical forms may either refer to in-dividual entities or to natural kinds (Carlson,1977).
Kinds are individuals of a specific na-ture; the term kind(x,  P(x)) can loosely beinterpreted as the typical individual satisfy-ing P. All properties, including compositeones, have a corresponding natural kind inour formalism.
Natural kinds are used in thetranslations of examples like John inventedpaperclips:past (quant (ex is ts ,  e, Ev(e),Invent(e, john, kind(p, Paperclip(p) ) ).In reasoning about kinds, the simplest ap-proach possible would be to have a rule ofinference stating that if a "kind individual"has a certain property, then all "real world"individuals of that kind have that property aswell: if the "typical bear" is an animal, thenall real world bears are animals.
Of course,the converse rule does not hold: the "typicalbear" cannot have all the properties that anyreal bear has, because then it would have tobe both white all over and brown all over,and so on.COMPARATIVES AND SUPERLA-T IVESIn the present version of the CLE, compara-tives and superlatives are formed on the basisof degree predicates.
Intuitively, the mean-ing of the comparative in Mary is nicer thanJohn is that one of the two items being com-pared possesses a property to a higher degreethan the other one, and the meaning of a su-perlative is that art item possesses a propertyto the highest degree among all the items ina certain set.
This intuition is formalised in(Cresswell, 1976), to which our treatment isrelated.The comparison in Mary is two inchestaller than John is translated as follows:quant (amount (An .
(n  = 2), inches),h, Degree(h),more()~x Ad.
tall_degree(z, d),mary, john, h ).The operator more  has a graded predicateas its first argument and three terms as itssecond, third and fourth arguments.
The op-erator yields true if the degree to which thefirst term satisfies the graded predicate x-ceeds the degree to which the second termsatisfies the predicate by the amount speci-fied in the final term.
In this example h is a29degree of height which is measured, in inches,by the amount quantification.
Examples likeMary is 3 inches less tall than John get sim-ilar translations.
In Mary is taller than Johnthe quantifier for the degree to which Maryis taller is simply an existential.Superlatives are reduced to comparativesby paraphrasing them in terms of the num-ber of individuals that have a property to atleast as high a degree as some specific individ-ual.
This technique of comparing pairs allowsus to treat combinations of ordinals and su-perlatives, as in the third tallest man smiled:quant ( re f ( the , .
.
. )
,  a,Man(a) A quant(An.
(n = 3), b,Man(b)),quant(amount( ,kn .
(n  _> 0), units), h,more( Az ~d.tall_degree( x, d), b, a, h ),past (quant (ex is ts ,  e, Ev(e),Smile(e, a)))))).The logical form expresses that there are ex-actly three men whose difference in heightfrom a (the referent of the definite nounphrase, see below) is greater than or equalto 0 in some arbitrary units of measurement.QUASI  LOGICAL  FORMSThe QLF language is a superset of the LFlanguage; it contains additional constructsfor unscoped quantifiers, unresolved refer-ences, and underspecified relations.
The'meaning' of a QLF expression can bethought of as being given in terms of themeanings of the set of LF expressions it ismapped to.
Ultimately the meaning of theQLF expressions can be seen to depend onthe contextual information that is employedin the processes of scoping and reference res-olution.UNSCOPED QUANTIP IERSIn the QLF language, unscoped quantifiersare translated as terms with the formatqterm((quantif ier),(number),( variable),( restriction) ).Coordinated NPs, like a man or a woman,are translated as terms with the formatterm..coord( ( operator),( variable),(ten)).The unscoped QLF generated by the seman-tic interpretation rules for Most doctors andsome engineers read every article involvesboth qterms and a term_coord  (quantifierscoping generates a number of scoped LFsfrom this):quant(ex ists ,  e Ev(e),Read(e,term_coord(A,  x,q term(most ,  plur,  y, Doctor(y)),qterm(some,  plur, z, Engineer(z))),qterm(every, sing, v, Art(v)))).Quantifier scoping determines the scopes ofquantifiers and operators, generating scopedlogical forms in a preference order.
The or-dering is determined by a set of declarativerules expressing linguistic preferences uchas the preference of particular quantifiers tooutscope others.
The details of two versionsof the CLE quantifier scoping mechanism arediscussed by Moran (1988) and Pereira (A1-shawl et al 1988).UNRESOLVED REFERENCESUnresolved references arising from pronounanaphora nd definite descriptions are rep-resented in the QLF as 'quasi terms' whichcontain internal structure relevant o refer-ence resolution.
These terms are eventuallyreplaced by ordinary LF terms (constants orvariables) in the final resolved form.
A dis-cussion of the CLE reference resolution pro-cess and treatment of constraints on pronounreference will be given in (Alshawi, in prep.
).P ronouns .
The QLF representation of apronoun is an anaphoric term (or a_term).For example, the translations of him andhimself in Mary expected him to introducehimself are as follows:30a_term(ref(pro,  him, sing, \[mary\]),x, Male(x))a_term(ref(ref l ,  h im,  sing, \[z, mary\]),y, Male(y)).The first argument of an a_term is akinto a category containing the values of syn-tactic and semantic features relevant o ref-erence resolution, such as those for thereflexive/non-reflexive and singular/pluraldistinctions, and a list of the possible intra-sentential antecedents, including quantifiedantecedents.Def in i te Descr ipt ions .
Definite descrip-tions are represented in the QLF as unscopedquantified terms.
The qterm is turned intoa quant  by the scoper, and, in the simplestcase, definite descriptions are resolved by in-stantiating the quant  variable in the bodyof the quantification.
Since it is not possibleto do this for descriptions containing boundvariable anaphora, such descriptions remainas quantifiers.
For example, the QLF gener-ated for the definite description in Every dogburied the bone that it found is:qterm(ref (def ,  the,  sing, Ix\]), sing, y,Bone(y) A past (quant(ex ls ts ,  e, Ev(e),Find(e, a_term(ref(pro,  it, sing, \[y,z\]),w, Zmv rsonal(w)), y)))).After scoping and reference resolution, theLF translation of the example is as follows:quant(foral l ,  x, Dog(x),q uant(exists_one,  y,Bone(y) A past (quant(ex is ts ,  e, Ev(e),Find(e, x, y))),quant(ex ists ,  e', Ev( e'), Bury( e', x, y)))).Unbound Anaphor ic  Terms.
When anargument position in a QLF predication mustco-refer with an anaphoric term, this is indi-cated as a_index(x), where x is the variablefor the antecedent.
For example, becausewant is a subject control verb, we have thefollowing QLF for he wanted to swim:past(quant(ex is ts ,  e, Ev(e),Want(e, a_term(ref(pro,  he, sing, \[ \]), z,Male(z)),quant(exists, eI, Ev(el),Swim( e', a_index(z))))).If the a_index variable is subsequently re-solved to a quantified variable or a constant,then the a_index operator becomes redun-dant and is deleted from the resulting LF.
Inspecial cases such as the so-called 'donkey-sentences', however, an anaphoric term maybe resolved to a quantified variable v outsidethe scope of the quantifier that binds v. TheLF for Every farmer who owns a dog loves itprovides an example:quant(foral l ,  x,Farmer( x )Aquant(exists, y, Dog(y),quant(exists, e, Zv( e ), Own(e, x, y) ) ),quant(exists, e~, Ev(e'),Love( e ~, x, a..index(y)))).The 'unbound ependency' is indicated by ana_index operator.
Dynamic interpretationof this LF, in the manner proposed in (Groe-nendijk & Stokhof, 1987), allows us to arriveat the correct interpretation.UNRESOLVED PREDICAT IONSThe use of unresolved terms in QLFs is notsufficient for covering natural language con-structs involving implicit relations.
We havetherefore included a QLF construct (a_formfor 'anaphoric formula') containing a formulawith an unresolved predicate.
This is eventu-ally replaced by a fully resolved LF formula,but again the process of resolution is beyondthe scope of this paper.Impl ic i t  Relat ions.
Constructions likepossessives, genitives and compound nounsare translated into QLF expressions contain-ing uninstantiated relations introduced bythe a_form relation binder.
This binder isused in the translation of John's house whichsays that a relation, of type poss, holds be-tween John and the house:31qterm(exists ,  ing, x,a_form(poss, R, House(x) A R(john, x ) ) ).The implicit relation, R, can then be deter-mined by the reference resolver and instanti-ated, to Owns or Lives_in say, in the resolvedLF.The translation of indefinite compoundnominals, such as a telephone socket, involvesan a_form, of type cn (for an unrestrictedcompound nominal relation), with a 'kind'term:qterm(a,  sing, s,a_form(cn, R, Socket(s) ^R( s, kind(t,  Telephone(t)))).The 'kind' term in the translation reflects thefact that no individual telephone needs to beinvolved.One-Anaphora .
The a_form construct isalso used for the QLF representation of'one-anaphora'.
The variable bound by thea_form has the type of a one place predi-cate rather than a relation.
Resolving theseanaphora involves identifying relevant (partsof) preceding noun phrase restrictions (Web-ber, 1979).
For example the scoped QLF forMary sold him an expensive one is:quant(exists ,  xa_form(one, P, P( x ) A Expensive(x)),past(quant(ex ists ,  e, Ev(e),Sell(e, mary, z, a_term(..
.))))
.After resolution (if the sentence were pre-ceded, say, by John wanted to buy a futon)the resolved LF would be:q uant  (exists, z,Futon( x ) ^  Expensive(z),past(quant(ex ists ,  e, Ev(e),Sell(e, mary, x, john ) ) ).CONCLUSIONWe have attempted to evolve the QLF andLF languages gradually by a process ofadding minimal extensions to first orderlogic, in order to facilitate future work onnatural anguage systems with reasoning ca-pabilities.
The separation of the two seman-tic representation levels has been an impor-tant guiding principle in the implementationof a system covering a substantial fragmentof English semantics in a well-motivated way.Further work is in progress on the treatmentof collective readings and of tense and aspect.ACKNOWLEDGEMENTSThe research reported in this paper is partof a group effort to which the following peo-ple have also contributed: David Carter, BobMoore, Doug Moran, Barney Pell, FernandoPereira, Steve Pulman and Arnold Smith.Development of the CLE has been carried outas part of a research programme in natural-language processing supported by an Alveygrant and by members of the NATTIE con-sortium (British Aerospace, British Telecom,Hewlett Packard, ICL, Olivetti, Philips, ShellResearch, and SRI).
We would like to thankthe Alvey Directorate and the consortiummembers for this funding.
The paper hasbenefitted from comments by Steve Pulmanand three anonymous ACL referees.REFERENCESAlshawi, H., D.M.
Carter, J. van Eijck, R.C.Moore, D.B.
Moran, F.C.N.
Pereira,S.G.
Pulman and A.G. Smith.
1988.
In-terim Report on the SRI Core LanguageEngine.
Technical Report CCSRC-5,SRI International, Cambridge ResearchCentre, Cambridge, England.Alshawi, H., in preparation, "Reference Res-olution In the Core Language Engine".Barwise, J.
& R. Cooper.
1981.
"General-ized Quantifiers and Natural Language",Linguistics and Philosophy, 4, 159-219.Cresswell, M.J. 1976.
"The Semantics of De-gree", in: B.H.
Partee (ed.
), MontagueGrammar, Academic Press, New York,pp.
261-292.32Carlson, G.N.
1977.
"Reference to Kinds inEnglish", PhD thesis, available from In-diana University Linguistics Club.Davidson, D. 1967.
"The Logical Form ofAction Sentences", in N. Rescher, TheLogic of Decision and Action, Universityof Pittsburgh Press, Pittsburgh, Penn-sylvania.van  Eijck, J.
1988.
"Quantification".Technical Report CCSRC-7, SRI Inter-national, Cambridge Research Centre.Cambridge, England.
To appear inA.
von Stechow & D. Wunderlich, Hand-book of Semantics, De Gruyter, Berlin.Groenendijk, J.
& M. Stokhof 1987.
"Dy-namic Predicate Logic".
Preliminary re-port, ITLI, Amsterdam.Montague, R. 1973.
"The Proper Treatmentof Quantification i  Ordinary English".In R. Thomason, ed., Formal Philoso-phy, Yale University Press, New Haven.Moore, R.C.
1981.
"Problems in LogicalForm".
19th Annual Meeting of the As-sociation for Computational Linguistics,Stanford, California, pp.
117-124.Moran, D.B.
1988.
"Quantifier Scoping inthe SRI Core Language Engine", 26thAnnual Meeting of the Association forComputational Linguistics, State Uni-versity of New York at Buffalo, Buffalo,New York, pp.
33-40.Pelletier, F.J.
(ed.)
1979.
Mass Terms:Some Philosophical Problems, Reidel,Dordrecht.Schubert, L.K.
& F.J. Pelletier 1982.
"FromEnglish to Logic: Context-Free Compu-tation of 'Conventional' Logical Trans-lations".
Americal Journal of Computa-tional Linguistics, 8, pp.
26-44.Webber, B.
1979.
A Formal Approach to Dis-course Anaphora, Garland, New York.
