A General Computational Treatment Of TheComparativeCaro l  F r iedman"Courant Institute of Mathematical SciencesNew York University715 Broadway, Room 709New York, NY  10005AbstractWe present a general treatment of the com-parative that is based on more basic linguisticelements o that the underlying system canbe effectively utilized: in the syntactic analy-sis phase, the comparative is treated the sameas similar structures; in the syntactic regular-ization phase, the comparative is transformedinto a standard form so that subsequent pro-ceasing is basically unaffected by it.
The scopeof quantifiers under the comparative is also in-tegrated into the system in a general way.1 Introduct ionRecently there has been interest in the devel-opment of a general computational treatmentof the comparative.
Last year at the AnnualACL Meeting, two papers were presented onthe comparative by Ballard \[1\] and Raynerand Banks \[14\].
Previous to that a compre-hensive treatment of the comparative was in-corporated into the syntactic analyzer of theLinguistic String Project \[15\]; in addition theDIALOGIC grammar utilized by TEAM \[9\]also contains ome coverage of the compara-tive.An interest in the comparative is not sur-prising because it occurs regularly in lan-*This work was supported by the Defense Ad-vanced Re .arch  Projects Agency under ContractN00014-8.5-K-0163 from the Office of Naval Research.The author's current addr?~ is: Center for MedicalInfornmti~, Columhia~Pre~byterian Medical Center,Columbia University, 161 Fort Waahington Avenue,Room 1310, New York NY 10032.guage, and yet is a very difficult structure toprocess by computer.
Because it can occur ina variety of forms pervasively throughout thegrammar, its incorporation i to a NL systemis a major undertaking which can easily ren-der the system unwieldy.
We will describe anapproach to the computational treatment ofthe comparative, which provides more generalcoverage of the comparative than that of otherNLP Systems while not obscuring the underly-ing system.
This is accomplished by associat-ing the comparative with simpler, more basiclinguistic entities o that it could be processedby the system with only minor modifications.The implementation f the comparative de-scribed in this paper was done for the Pro-re,8 Question Answering System \[8\] 1 (referredto hereafter as Proteus QAS), and should beadaptable for other systems which have sim-ilar modules.
A more detailed discussion ofthis work is given in \[7\].1.1 The  Prob lemThe comparative is a difficult structure to pro-cess for both syntactic and semantic reasons.Syntactically the comparative is extraordinar-ily diverse.
The following sentences illustratea range of different types of comparative struc-tures, some of which resemble other Englishstructures, as noted by Sager \[15\].
In the ex-amples below, sentences with the comparativethat resemble other forms are followed by a1 The treatment of the comp~'ative in the syntac-tic analysis component was adapted from a previousimplementation done by this 8uthor for the LinguisticString Project \[15\].161sentence illustrating the similar form:con junct ion- l ike  :la.Men eat more apples than oranges.lb.Men eat apples and oranges.2a.More men buy than write books.2b.Men buy and write books.3a.
We are more for than against he plan.3b.
We are for or against the plan.4a.He read more than 8 books.4b.He read ~ or 3 books.wh-relat ive-c lanse- l ike :5a.More guests than we invited visited us.5b.Guests that we invited visited as.subord inate  and adverb ia l  :6a.More visitors came than was ezpected.6b.
Visitors came, which was ezpected.7a.More visitors came than usual.7b.Many t~sitors came as usual.Special  Comparat ive  Const ruct ions  :8.A taller man than John visited us.9.
John is taller than 6 ft.10.
A man taller than John visited us.11.He ran faster than ever.The problems in covering the syntax of thecomparative are therefore at least as complexas the problems encountered for general coor-dinate conjunctions, relative clauses, and cer-tain subordinate and adverbial clauses.
Incor-porating conjunction-like comparatives into agrammar is particularly difficult because thatstructure can occur almost anywhere in thegrammar.
Wh-relative-clause-like compara-tives are complicated because they containan omitted noun where the omission can oc-cur arbitrarily deep within the comparativeclause.The comparative is difficult to process forsemantic reasons also because the comparativemarker can occur on different linguistic cate-gories.
Adjectives, quantifiers, and adverbscan all take the comparative form, as in: he istal ler  than John, he took more  courses thanJohn, and he ran faster  than John.
There-fore the semantics of the comparative has tobe consistent with the semantics of differentlinguistic categories while retaining its ownunique characteristics.2 The Underlying SystemProteus QAS answers natural languagequeries relevant to a domain of studentrecords.
It is highly modular and containsfairly standard components which perform:1.
A syntactic analysis of the sentence us-ing an augmented context-free grammarconsisting of a context-free componentwhich defines the grammatical structures,a restriction component which containswelbformedness constraints between con-stituents, and a lexicon which classifieswords according to syntactic and seman-tic categories.2.
A syntactic regularization of the anal-ysis using Montague-style compositionaltranslation rules to obtain a uniformoperator-operand structure.3.
A domain analysis of the regularizedstructure to obtain an interpretation ithe domain.4.
An analysis of the scope of the quanti-tiers.5.
A translation to logical form.6.
Retrieval and answer generation.The syntactic analyzer also covers generalcoordinate conjunction by containing a con-junction metarule mechanism which automat-ically adds a production containing conjunc-tion to certain context-free definitions.3 The Syntactic Analysisof the ComparativeIn Section 1.1 it was shown that the com-parative resembles other complex syntacticstructures.
This observation suggests thatthe comparative could be treated as generalcoordinate conjunctions, wh-relative clauses,and certain subordinate and adverbial clauses162by the syntactic analysis component of thesystem.
If the system can already handlethese structures, the extension for the compar-ative is straightforward.
This approach hasthe advantage of utilizing the system's exist-ing machinery to process comparative struc-tures which are very complex and diverse;in this way a minimal amount of effort re-sults in extensive coverage.
For example, tocover conjunction-like comparative structures,the production containing possible conjunc-tions was modified to include than; to includerelative-clause-like comparatives, the produc-tion containing words which can head rela-tive clauses was also modified to include than.Analogous minor grammar changes were madefor the other types of similar structures shownabove.
Using this approach, a comprehen-sive comparative xtension was obtained bya trivial modification of only a small numberof grammar productions.Thus, a conjunction-like comparative struc-ture such as Sentence la.
in Section 1.1 wouldbe analyzed as consisting of an object whichcontains a conjoined noun phrase more applesCONJ 0 oranges where the value of CONJis than, and where a quantifier phrase similarto more has been omitted which occurs withoranges.
A relative-clause type of compara-tive structure such as Sentence 5a.
would beanalyzed as a relative clause than we invited0 adjoined to more guests.
Those construc-tions that are unique to the comparative, asshown in Sehtences 8 through 11, have to beuniquely defined.
For example, the compara-tive clause in Sentence 8 is defined as a clausewhere the predicate is omitted, whereas thecomparative clause in Sentence 9 is defined asa measure phrase.Although the comparative syntactically re-sembles other structures, this type of similar-ity does not carry over to the underlying struc-ture or to the semantics of the comparative,as will be discussed shortly.There are also some syntactic differences be-tween the comparative and the structures itresembles.
For example, the comparative haszeroing patterns that are somewhat differentfrom those associated with conjunctions:+ John slept more than Mary \[slept\].- John slept and Mary \[slept\].The comparative constructions also havescope marker constraints that are not appli-cable to non-comparative structures.
Thesedifferences are handled by special add-on con-straints that specifically deal with the com-parative, and do not interfere with the otherrestrictions.The treatment of the comparative markeris complicated because it can occur in a largenumber of different locations in the headclause 2, as illustrated by a few examples be-low:He wanted to travel to more  coun-tries than he was able to.He is ta l ler  than Mary.He ate 3 more  apples than Mary did.He ate more  in the fall than in thewinter.Because the comparative marker can occur insuch a variety of locations and also be deeplyembedded in the head clause, it cannot be con-veniently handled in the BNF  component ofthe grammar.
Instead, the constraint com-ponent deals with this problem by means ofspecial constraints that assign and pass upthe comparativ e marker; other constraints testthat the comparative clause is in the scope ofthe marker.4 Underlying StructureBasically, linguists such as Chomsky \[3,4\],Bresnan \[2\], Harris \[10\], and Pinkham \[13\]agree on fundamental aspects concerningthe underlying structure of the comparative.They regard its underlying structure as con-sisting of two complete clauses where informa-tion in the comparative clause which is iden-tical to information in the head clause is re-quired to be zeroed.Harris' work is particularly suitable forcomputational purposes because he claimsthat one underlying structure is the source of2This phrase was used by Bresnan \[2\] to refer tothe clause of the comparative that contains the com-parative marker.163all comparative forms.
We modified his in-terpretation somewhat to obtain a more con-venient form for computation.
In our ver-sion, the underlying structure contains a mainclause where the comparison is the primaryrelation; each quantity in the relation con-tains an embedded clause specifying the quan-tity being compared.
An example of thisform is shown below for the sentence Johnate more apples than Mary, which resembles aconjunction-like comparative structure wherethe verb phrase has been omitted:Nx \[John ate Nx apples\] >N2 \[Mary ate N2 apples\]This form is also appropriate for all thedifferent comparative forms shown in Sec-tion 1.1.
For example, the underlying formfor a relative-clause-like comparative, such asSentence 5a.
is:N1 \[Nx guests visited us\] >N2 \[we invited N2 guests\]The underlying form for a sentence such as aman taller than John visited us is slightly dif-ferent because the comparative structure it-self is embedded in a noun phrase.
The mainclause is a man visited us, and the compar-ative structure is a clause adjoining a man,whose underlying structure is:NI \[the man is N1 tall\] >N2 \[John is N2 tall\]The notion that there is one underlyingform for all comparatives has important im-plications for a computational treatment:?
Regularization procedures can be writtento transform all comparative structuresinto one standard form consisting of acomparative operator and two completeclauses which specify the quantities be-ing compared.?
In the standard form, each clause of thecomparative operator is a simpler struc-ture which can be processed using basi-cally the usual procedures of the system.This means that further processing doesnot have to be modified for the compara-tive.This process can be illustrated by a simple ex-ample.
When the sentence more guests thanwe invited visited us is regularized, a structureconsisting of an operator connecting two com-plete clauses is obtained:(> (visited (er guests) (us))(invited (we) ( than guests)))The symbols er and than,  shown above,roughly correspond to quantities being com-pared, and in subsequent processing they areeach interpreted as denoting a certain typeof quantity.
Notice that each clause of thecomparative is also in operator-operand formwhere generally the verb of a sentence is con-sidered the operator and the subject and ob-ject (and sometimes sentence adjunct phrases)are considered the operands z.
Each of the twoclauses can be processed in the usual mannerprovided that er and than  are treated appro-priately.
This will be described further in Sec-tion 5 which contains a discussion of semanticsand the comparative.The regularization process was modified tobe a two phase process.
The first phase usesordinary compositional translation rules toperform the standard regularization so thatthe surface analysis is transformed into a uni-form operator-operand form.
The composi-tional regularization procedure is effective forfairly basic sentence structures but not forcomplex ones such as the comparative.
Thecompositional rules associated with compara-tive structures only include labels categoriz-ing the type of comparative structure.
Thesecond phase, written specifically for the com-parative, completes the regularization processby filling in the missing elements, permutingthe structures to obtain the correct operator-operand form, and supplying the appropriatequantifiers er and than  to the items beingcomparativized.
An example of this processis shown for the relative-clause type of com-parative in more guests than we invited visitedas, where the comparative clause than we in-vited is analyzed syntactically as being a rightadjunct modifier of guests.3However, if the predicate is an ad~ectlvsl phrase,the adjective isconsidered the operator and the verbbe the tense c~-rier.
Thus, ignoring tense information,the regularized form of John is t611 is: (tall (John)).164Phase I: (visited (more guests(reln-than(invited (we) 0)))(us))Phase 2: (> (visited (er guests) (us))(invited (we) (than guests)))Another example is shown below for aconjunction-like comparative, such as Johnate more apples than oranges:Phase 1: (ate (John)(conj-than (more oranges)(0 oranges)))Phase 2: (> (ate (John) (er apples)?
(ate (John) (than oranges)))There are a few key points that shouldbe made concerning the regularization proce-dures.
The Montague-style translation rulescould not readily be used to regularize thecomparative constructions as they were de-fined in the context-free component.
To usethe rules, the grammar would have to be mod-ified substantially because the translation ofthe comparative is different and more com-plex than that of the structures it resembles.In particular, it would then not be possibleto use the general conjunction mechanism toobtain coverage of that type of comparativestructure.
In the case of the usual relativeclause, the regularized form is also substan-tially different from the regularized form ofthe relative-clause type of comparative shownabove.
For a typical relative clause, such asthat we invited 0 in g.ests that we invited vis-ited us, the regularized form occurs as a clauseembedded in the main clause as follows:(visited (guests (invited (we) 0))(us))The second important point is that be-cause of regularization further processing ofsentences containing a comparative is signifi-cantly simplified and only minor changes arerequired specifically for the comparative.
InProte,s QAS, as well as other NLP  Sys-tems, several other processing components areneeded after syntactic regularization until thefinal result is obtained.
Therefore a signifi-cant result of our approach is that subsequentcomponents do not have to be modified for thecomparative.
As long as the underlying sys-tem can handle adjectives, degree xpressions,quantifiers, and adverbs, the remainder of theprocessing of sentences with the comparativeis basically no different than the processing ofordinary sentences because at that point thecomparative is represented asbeing composedof fundamental linguistic entities.5 Semantics of the Com-parativeSemantically the comparative denotes thecomparison of two quantities relative to a cer-tain scale.
This interpretation is consistentwith work in formal semantics ( \[12,11\], \[6,5\]),although our formalism is not the same.Since the comparative marker can occurwith adjectives, quantifiers, and adverbs, wewould like to integrate its semantic treat-ment with the semantics of those fundamen-tal linguistic categories and also remain trueto the semantics and syntax of the compara-tive.
This can be done by noting that oncethe comparative is regularized, the compara-tive marker becomes a higher order operatorconnecting two clauses and what remains ofthe marker within each clause functions as aquantitative phrase.
For example, the regu-larized form for/s John taller than Mary is:(> (tall (DEG er) (John))(tall (DEG than) (Mary)).
)In this form er and than are each interpretedas a type of degree phrase that occurs withadjectives.
In a question answering applica-tion such as that of Proteus QAS, each clauseof the above form is equivalent to the regu-larized form of how tall is John, where how isalso interpreted as a degree phrase modifyingtall:(tall (DEG how) (John))The interpretation of a sentence containingthe comparative is therefore reduced to theinterpretation of two similar simpler clauses,each containing an adjective operator and an165operand which is a degree phrase.
Issues con-cerning the correct scale and criteria of com-parison for adjectives are non-trivial, but aregenerally not different from those issues con-cerning adjectives not being comparativized.For example, determining the scale and crite-ria that should be used to interpret is Johnmore refiable than Jim raises similar issues tothose for ho~a reliable is Jim.The semantic treatment of adverbs gener-ally parallels that of adjectives; the interpre-tation of quantifiers in the comparative formis also equivalent to the interpretation of cer-tain interrogatives.
For example, the regular-ized form of did John take more courses thanMary consists roughly of the two clauses Johntook er courses and Mary took than  courses,which is treated analogously to how many inhow many courses did John take.6 Quantifier AnalysisAn interesting problem involving the compar-ative concerns the scope of quantifiers whenthere is a higher order sentential operator suchas the comparative.
The problem is not dis-cussed much in the literature, but was dis-cussed by Rayner and Banks \[14\] when theydescribed their treatment ofquantifiers for ev-eryone spent more money in London than inNew York.
The basic issue is whether thequantifier every in everyone should be givenwider scope than the comparative itself, inwhich case it is applicable to both clauses ofthe comparative.
Our approach addresses thisproblem in a general way by adding a prelimi-nary phase to the standard quantifier analysis.Our approach as several key features:?
The replication of a quantified nounphrase does not lead to impossible scop-ing combinations, as frequently happenswhen these phrases are replicated for thepurpose of obtaining a complete clause.?
Our approach is applicable to all gen-eral higher order operators connectingtwo clauses.?
The scope of quantifiers is determined ina late stage of processing so that corn-mittment is not done prematurely.?
A procedure using pragmatics and do-main knowledge can easily be incorpo-rated into the system as a separate com-ponent o aid in scope determination.In Proteus QAS, the scope of quantifiers isdetermined subsequent to the regularizationand domain analysis components in a mannersimilar to other NLP Systems, as described byWoods \[16\].
The basic quantifer analysis pro-cedure initially handled simple clauses, andtherefore had to be modified to accommodatescope determination when a sentence containsa higher order operator such as a compara-tive or a coordinate conjunction.
A prelim-inary quantifier analysis phase was added tofind and label quantifiers which have a widerscope than the comparative.
In addition, mi-nor modifications were made to the compo-nent which translates the regularized form tological form, in order to handle the translationof wider scope quantifiers.Generally, in the case of the comparative,the criteria used for determining whether ornot a quantifier should have a wider scope in-volves the location of the quantifier relative tothe comparative marker in the surface form.Usually, a preference is given to the widerscope interpretation if the quantifier precedesthe marker.
Using this approach, the sen-tence everyone spent more money in Londonthan in New York is first interpreted syntac-tically as consisting of two complete clauses,which are roughly everyone spent er moneyin London and everyone spent han money inNew York.
The semantics of each clause isinterpreted the same as that of a simpler sen-tence how much money did everyone spend inLondon.
The preliminary quantifier analysisphase prefers the reading where the scope ofeveryone is wider than the comparative opera-tor because veryone precedes more.
The sen-tence is translated to logical form so that thequantified expression YX : person(X) occursoutside the comparative operator, and there-fore has scope over both c|auses of the com-parative.
The interpretation is roughly:166VX:person(X)(>(spent (X) (er money)(in London))(spent (X) (than money)(in New York)))A different scope interpretation is obtained formore students read than wrote a book, wherethe two clauses are er students read a bookand than  students wrote a book.
The nar-row scope interpretation of a in a book is ob-tained because a follows more.
In this case,the quantified expressions for each clause ofthe comparative are completely independentof the other.7 Concluding RemarksWe have presented a method for incorporat-ing general comparatives into a system with-out unduly complicating the system.
This isdone in the syntactic analysis component bytreating the comparatives the same as simi-lar structures o that features of the syntac-tic analyzer that already exist may be uti-lized.
The various comparative structures arethen regularized so that they are in a stan-dard form consisting of a comparative opera-tor and two complete clauses that contain aquantity er or than  which is interpreted bythe semantic omponent as a quantity suchas how, how many,  or how much,  as ap-propriate.
A preliminary quantifier analysiscomponent was added to determine whethera sentence containing a higher order operatorhas any quantifiers which have a wider scopethan the operator, and to label those that do.The remainder of the processing is done asusual except for minor modifications.The treatment of the comparative that wehave presented is more extensive and generalthan that of other NLP Systems to date, andalso is simple to implement.
Only a smallnumber of productions of the BNF componentwere changed to cover the comparative struc-tures described in this paper.
In addition,three restrictions were modified for the com-parative, and a set of separate add-on restric-tious were included to handle comparativezeroing patterns and scope marker require-ments.
Special regularization procedures werewritten to regularize the different compara-tive forms so that the standard Montague-style compositional translation rules could beused prior to the comparative regularizationphase.Although we can process many forms of thecomparative, there is still substantial workthat remains which involves comparative sen-tences where the comparative clause itself hasbeen omitted, as in New York banks are start-ing to offer higher interest rates.
In somecases the comparison is between two differenttime periods; in other cases the comparisoninvolves different types of like objects, suchas the interest rates of New York banks com-pared to the interest rates of Florida banks.The context can often be an aid in helping torecover the missing information, but the re-covery problem is still quite a challenge.
Sen-tences with this type of anaphora re very in-teresting because they occur surprisingly reg-ularly in language, and yet the recovery possi-bilities are more limited and more controlledthan those occurring in discourse in general.Possibly these type of sentences can provide uswith clues as to what elements are significantfor the recovery of the missing information.AcknowledgementsI would like to thank Ralph Grishman, NaomiSager, and Tomek Strzalkowski for their helpand comments.References\[1\] B. BaUard.
A general computationaltreatment of comparatives for naturallanguage question answering.
In Proc.of the ~6th Annual Meeting of the As-sociation for Computational Linguistics,pages 41-48, 1988.\[21 Joan W. Bresnan.
Syntax of the com-parative clause construction in English.Linguistic Inquiry, IV(3):275-343, 1973.\[3\] Noam Chomsky.
Aspects of the Theory ofSyntaz.
M.I.T.
Press, Cambridge, Mass.,1965.167\[4\] Noam Chomsky.
On wh-movement.
InP.
Culicover, T. Wasow, and A. Akma-jian, editors, Formal Syntaz, pages 71-132, Academic Press, .New York, 1977.\[5\] M.J. Cresswell.
Logics and Language.Methuen, London, 1973.\[6\] M.J. Cresswell.
The semantics of degree.In B.H.Partee, editor, Montague Gram-mar, pages 261-292, Academic Press,New York, 1975.\[7\] C. Friedman.
A Computational Treat-ment of the Comparative.
PhD thesis,New York University, 1989.
Reprintedas PROTEUS Project Memorandum 21,New York University, Courant Insti-tute of Mathematical Science, ProteusProject, New York, 1989.\[8\] R. Grishman.
PROTEUS Parser Refer-ence Manual.
PROTEUS Project Memo-randum 4, New York University, CourantInstitute of Mathematical Science, Pro-teus Project, New York, July 1986.\[9\] B. Grosz, D. Appelt, P. Martin, and F.Pereira.
Team: an experiment in the de-sign of transportable natural-language in-terfaces.
Artilical Intelligence, 32(2): 173-243, 1987.\[10\] Zellig Harris.
A Grammar of EnglishOn Mathematical Principles.
John Wi-ley and Sons, New York, N.Y., 1982.\[11\] Ewan Klein.
The interpretation of adjec-tival comparatives.
Journal of Linguis-tics, (18):113-136, 1982.\[12\] Ewan Klein.
A semantics for positive andcomparative adjectives.
Linguistics andPhilosophy, (4):1-45, 1980.\[13\] J. Pinkham.
The Formation of Compara-tive Clauses in French and English.
Gar-land Publishing, New York, 1985.\[14\] M. Rayner and A.
Banks.
Parsing and in-terpreting comparatives.
In Proc.
of the26th Annual Meeting of the Associationfor Computational Linguistics, pages 49-60, 1988.\[15\] Naomi Sager.
Natural Language Infor-mation Processing: A Computer Gram-mar of English and Its Applications.Addison-Wesley, Reading, Mass., 1981.\[16\] W.A.
Woods.
Semantics and quantifi-cation in natural language question an-swering systems.
Advances in Comput-ers, 17:1-87, 1978.168
