ON REPRESENTING GOVERNED PREPOSIT IONS ANDHANDLING "INCORRECT" AND NOVEL PREPOSIT IONSHatte R. Blejer, Sharon Flank, and Andrew KchlerSRA Corporation2000 15th St. NorthArl ington, VA 22201, USAABSTRACTNLP systems, in order to be robust,must handle novel and i l l -formed input.One common type of error involves the useof non-standard prepositions to markarguments.
In this paper, we argue thatsuch errors can be handled in a systematicfashion, and that a system designed tohandle them offers other advantages.
Weof fer  a c lassi f icat ion scheme forpreposition usage errors.
Further,  we showhow the knowledge  representat ionemployed in the SRA NLP systemfacil itates handl ing these data.1.0 INTRODUCTIONIt is well known that NLP systems,in order to be robust, must handle ill-formed input.
One common type of errorinvolves the use of non-standardprepositions to mark arguments.
In thispaper, we argue that such errors can behandled in a systematic fashion, and that asystem designed to handle them offersother advantages.The examples of non-standardprepositions we present in the paper aretaken from colloquial language, bothwritten and oral.
The type of error theseexamples represent is quite frequent incolloquial written language.
The frequencyof such examples rises sharply in evolvingsub-languages and in oral colloquiallanguage.
In developing an NLP system tobe used by various U.S. governmentcustomers, we have been sensitized to theneed to handle variation and innovation inpreposition usage.
Handl ing this type ofvariation or innovation is part of ouroverall capabil ity to handle novelpredicates, which arc frequent in sub-language.
Novel predicates created for sub-languages arc less "stable" in how they markarguments (ARGUMENT MAPPING) thangeneral English "core" predicates whichspeakers learn as children.
It can beexpected that the eventual advent ofsuccessful speech understanding systemswill further  emphasize the need to handlethis and other variation.The NLP system under developmentat SRA incorporates a Natural LanguageKnowledge Base (NLKB), a major part ofwhich consists of objects representingSEMANTIC PREDICATE CLASSES.
Thesystem uses hierarchical knowledge sources;all general "class-level" characteristics of asemantic predicate class, including thenumber, type, and marking of theirarguments, are put in the NLKB.
Thisleads to increased eff ic iency in a numberof system aspects, e.g., the lexicon is morecompact and easier to modify since it onlycontains idiosyncratic information.
Thisrepresentation allows us to distinguishbetween Icxical ly and semantical lydetermined ARGUIVIENT MAPPING and toformulate general class-level constraintrelaxation mechanisms.I .
I  CLASSIFYING PREPOSIT IONUSAGEPreposition usage in English inpositions governed by predicating elements,whether adjectival, verbal, or nominal, maybe classified as (I) lexically determined, (2)syntact i ca l ly  determined ,  or (3)semantically determined.
Examples are:LEXICALLY DETERMINED:laugh at, afraid ofSYNTACTICALLY DETERMINED:by in passive sentencesSEMANTICALLY DETERMINED:move to~fromPreposition usage in idiomatic phrases isalso considered to be lexically determined,e.g., ~ respect to.1.2 A TYPOLOGY OF ERRORS INPREPOSITION USAGEWe have classified our corpus ofexamples of the use of non-standard110prepositions into the following categories:(1) substitution of a semantical lyappropriate preposition -- either from thesame class or another -- for a semanticallydetermined one, (2) substitution of asemantically appropriate preposition for alexically determined one, (3) false starts,(4) blends, and (5) substitution of asemantically appropriate preposition for asyntactically determined one.
A smallpercentage of the non-standard use ofprepositions appears to be random.1.3 COMPUTATIONAL APPLICATIONSOF THIS WORKIn a theoretical linguistics forum(Blejcr and Flank 1988), we argued thatthese examples of the use of non-standardprepositions to mark arguments (1)represent the kind of principled variationthat underlies language change, and (2)support a semantic analysis of governmentthat utilizes thematic roles, citing otherevidence for the semantic basis ofprepositional case marking from studies oflanguage dysfunction (Aitchison 1987:103),language acquisition (Pinker 1982:678;Mcnyuk 1969:56), and typological, cross-linguistic studies on case-marking systems.More theoretical spects of our work( including d iachroni?
change andarguments for and against particularlinguistic theories) were covered in thatpaper; here we concentrate on issues ofinterest to a computational linguisticsforum.
First, our natural languageknowledge representation and processingstrategies take into account the semanticbasis of prepositional case marking, andthus facilitate handling non-standard andnovel use of prepositions to markarguments.
The second contribution is ourtypology of errors in preposition usage.
Weclaim that an NLP system which acceptsnaturally occurring input must recognizethe type of the error to know how tocompensate for it.
Furthermore, theknowledge representation scheme we haveimplemented is an eff icient representationfor English and lends itself to adaptation torepresenting non-English case-marking aswell.There is wide variation incomputational strategies for mapping fromthe actual natural language xpression tosome sort of PREDICATE-ARGUMENTrepresentation.
At issue is how the systemrecognizes the arguments of the predicate.At one end of the spectrum is an approachwhich allows any marking of arguments ifthe type of the argument is correct for thatpredicate.
This approach is inadequatebecause it ignores vital information carriedby the preposition.
At the other extreme isa semantically constrained syntactic parse,in many ways a highly desirable strategy.This latter method, however, constrainsmore strictly than what humans actuallyproduce and understand.
Our strategy hasbeen to use the latter method, allowingrelaxation of those constraints, undercertain well-specified circumstances.Constraint relaxation has beenrecognized as a viable strategy forhandling ill-formed input.
Most discussioncenters around orthographic errors anderrors in subject-verb agreement.
Jensen,Heidorn, Miller, and Ravin (1983:158) notethe importance of "relaxing restrictions inthe grammar rules in some principled way.
"Knowing which constraints to relax andavoiding a proliferation of incorrect parseshowever, is a non-trivial task.
Weischedeland Sondheimer .
(1983:163ff) of fercautionary advice on this subject.There has been some discussion oferrors similar to those cited in our paper.Carbonell and Hayes (1983:132) observedthat "problems created by the absence ofexpected case markers can be overcome bythe application of domain knowledge" usingcase frame instantiation.
We agree withthese authors that the use of domainknowledge is an important element inunderstanding ill-formed input.
However,in instances where the preposition is notomitted, but rather replaced by a non-standard preposition, we claim that anunderstanding of the linguistic principlesinvolved in the substitution is necessary.To expla in  how const ra in trelaxation is accomplished, a brief systemdescription is needed.
Our system uses aparser based on Tomita (1986), withmodifications to allow constraints andstructure-building.
It uses context-freephrase structure rules, augmented withmorphological, contextual, and semanticconstraints.
Application of the phrasestructure rules results in a parse tree,similar to a Lexical-Functional Grammar(LFG) "c-structure" (Bresnan 1982).
Theconstraints are unified at parse time toproduce a functionally labelled template(FLT).
The FLT is then input to a semantictranslation module.
Using ARGUMENT111MAPPING rules and other operator-operand semant ic  rules, semant ictranslation creates situation frames (SF).SFs consist of a predicate and entity frames(EF), whose semantic roles in the situationare labeled.
Other semantic objects arerelational frames (e.g.
prepositionalphrases), property frames (e.g.
adjectivephrases), and unit frames (measure phrases).During the semantic interpretation anddiscourse analysis phase, the situationframe is interpreted, resulting in one ormore instantiated knowledge base (KB)objects, which are state or eventdescriptions with entity participants.2.0 REPRESENTING ARGUMENTMAPPING IN AN NLP SYSTEMIn our lexicons, verbs and adjectivesare linked to one or more predicate classeswhich are def ined in the Natural LanguageKnowledge Base (NLKB).
Predicatestypically govern one or more arguments orthematic roles.
All general, class-levelinformation about the thematic roles whicha given predicate governs is represented atthe highest possible level.
Onlyidiosyncratic information is represented inthe lexicon.
When lexicons are loaded theidiosyncratic information in the lexicon isunified with the general information in theNLKB.
Our representation scheme hascertain implementational advantages:lexicons are less error-prone and easier tomodify, the data are more compact,constraint relaxation is facilitated, etc.More importantly, we claim that suchsemantic lasses are psychologically valid.Our representation scheme is basedon the principle that ARGUMENTMAPPING is generally determined at theclass-level, i.e., predicates group alongsemantic lines as to the type ofARGUMENT MAPPING they take.
Ourwork draws from theoretical inguisticstudies of thematic relations (e.g., Gruber1976, Jackendoff  1983, and Ostler 1980).We do not accept the "strong" version oflocalism, i.e., that all form mirrors function-- that ARGUMENT MAPPING classesarise from metaphors based on spatialrelations.
Unlike case grammar, we limitthe number of cases or roles to a small set,based on how they are manifested insurface syntax.
We subsequently "interpret"roles based on the semantic class of thepredicate, .g., the GOAL of an ATTITUDEis generally an animate "experiencer'.For example, in the NLKB theARGUMENT MAPPING of predicateswhich denote a change in spatial relationspecifies a GOAL argument, marked withprepositions which posit a GOAL relation(to, into, and onto) and a SOURCEargument, marked with prepositions whichposit a SOURCE relation (from, out of, o f fof).
A sub-class of these predicates, namelyVendler's (1967) achievements, mark theGOAL argument with prepositions whichposit an OVERLAP relation (at, in).Compare:MOVE to/into/ontofrom/out of /of f  ofARRIVE at/ infromThe entries for these verbs in SRA's lexiconmerely specify which semantic lass theybelong to (e.g., SPATIAL-RELATION),whether they are stative or dynamic,whether they allow an agent, and whetherthey denote an achievement.
TheirARGUMENT MAPPING is not enteredexplicitly in the lexicon.
The verb reach,on the other hand, which marks its GOALidiosyncratically, asa direct object, wouldhave this fact in its lexical entry.2.1 GROUPING SEMANTIC ROLESBoth on implementational nd ontheoretical grounds, we have groupedcertain semantic roles into superclasses.Such groupings arc common in theliterature on case and valency (see Somers1987) and are also supported by cross-linguistic evidence.
Our grouping of rolesfollows previous work.
For example, theAGENT SUPERCLASS covers both animateagents as well as inanimate instruments.
AGROUND SUPERCLASS (as discussed inTalmy 1985) includes both SOURCE andGOAL, and a GOAL SUPERCLASSinc ludes  GOAL,  PURPOSE,  an'dDIRECTION.Certain semantic roles, like GOALand SOURCE, as well as being sisters are"privatives", that is, opposites emantically.Our  representat ion  schemedifferentiates between lexically andsemantically determined prepositions.
Wewill show how this representationfacilitates recognition of the type of error,and therefore principled relaxation of theconstraints.
Furthermore, a principled112relaxation of the constraints depends inmany instances on knowing the relationshipbetween the non-standard and the expectedprepositions: are they sisters, privatives, oris the non-standard preposition a parent ofthe expected preposition.In the following section we presentexamples of the five types of prepositionusage errors.
In the subsequent section, wediscuss how our system presently handlesthese errors, or how it might eventuallyhandle them.3.0 THE DATAWe have classified the variationdata according to the type of substitution.The main types are:(1) semantic for semantic (Section 3.1),(2) semantic for lexical (Section 3.2),(3) blends (Section 3.3),(4) false starts (Section 3.4), and(5) semantic for syntactic (Section 3.5).The data presented below are arepresentative sample of a larger group ofexamples.
The current paper covers theclassifications which we have encounteredso far; we expect hat analysis of additionaldata will provide further types ofsubstitutions within each class.3.1 SEMANTIC FOR SEMANTIC3.1.1 To/FromThe substitution of the goal markerfor the source marker cross-linguistically isrecognized in the case literature (e.g.,lkegami 1987).
In English, this appears tobe more pronounced in certain regionaldialects.
Common source/goal lternationscited by Ikegami (1987:125) include: aversefrom/to, different from/to, immunefrom/to, and distinction from/to.
Themajor i ty  of examples involve tosubstituting for from in lexical items whichincorporate a negation of the predicate; thestandard marker of GROUND in this classof predicates is a SOURCE marker, e.g.,different from.
The "positive" counterpartsmark the GROUND with GOAL, e.g.,similar to, as discussed in detail in Gruber(1976).
Variation between to and from canonly occur with verbs which incorporate anegative, otherwise the semantic distinctionwhich these prepositions denote isnecessary.
(1) The way that he came on to that bereavedbrother completely alienated me TO Mr. Bush.9/26/88 MCS(2) At this moment I'm different TOprimitive man.
10/12/88 The Mind, PBS3.1.2 To/WithCommunication and transfer ofknowledge can be expressed either as aprocess with multiple, equally involvedparticipants, or as an asymmetric processwith one of the participants as the "agent"of the transfer of information.
Our datadocument he substitution of the GOALmarker for the CO-THEME marker; thismay reflect the tendency of English toprefer "agent" focussing.
The participantsin a COMMUNICATION situation aresimilar in their semantic roles, the onlydifference being one of "viewpoint."
By nomeans all communication predicates operatein this way: e.g., EXPLANATION,TRANSFER OF KNOWLEDGE are moreclear ly asymmetr ic .
The systemdifferentiates between "mutual" and"asymmetric" ommunication predicates.
(3) The only reason they'll chat TO you is,you're either pretty, or they need somethingfrom your husband.
9/30/88 MCS(4) 171 have to sit down and explore this TOyou.
10/16/883.2 SEMANTIC FOR LEXICAL3.2.1 Goal Superclass (Goal/Purpose/Direction)Goal and purpose are frequentlyexpressed by the same case-marking, withthe DIRECTION marker alternating withthese at times.
The standard preposition inthese examples is lexically determined.
Inexample (6), instead of the lexicallydetermined to, which also marks thesemantic role GOAL, another prepositionwithin the same superclass is chosen.
Inexample (5) the phrasally determined for isreplaced by the GOAL marker.
There isabundant cross-linguistic evidence for aGOAL SUPERCLASS which includesGOAL and PURPOSE; to a lesser extentDIRECTION also patterns with these cross-linguistically.
(5) It's changing TO the better.
8/3/88 MCS(6) Mr. Raspberry is almost 200 years behindWashingtonians a piring FOR full citizenship.10/13/88 WP1133.2.2 On/OfSeveral examples involve lexicalitems expressing knowledge or cognition,for which the standard preposition islexically determined.
This preposition isuniformly replaced by on, also a marker ofthe semantic role of REFERENT.Examples include abreast of, grasp of, anidea of, and knowledge of.
We claim thatthe association of the role REFERENTwith knowledge and cognition (as well aswith transfer-of- information predicates) isamong the more salient associations thatlanguage learners encounter.
(7) Terry Brown, 47, a truck driver, agreed;"with eight years in the White House," he said,"Bush ought to have a better grasp ON thedetails."
9/27/88 NYT p. B8(8) I did get an idea ON the importance ofconsistency as far as reward and penalty areconcerned.
11/88 ETM journal3.2.3 With/From/ToIn this class, we believe that "mutualaction verbs" such as marry and divorceroutinely show a CO-THEME marker withbeing substituted for either to or from.Such predicates have a SECONDARY-MAPPING of PLURAL-THEME in theNLKB.
Communication predicates areanother class which allows a PLURAL-THEME and show alternation of GOALand CO-THEME (Section 3.1.2).
(9) Today Robin Givens said she won't askfor any money in her divorce WITH MikeTyson.
10/19/88 ATC3.3 FALSE STARTSThe next set of examples uggeststhat the speaker has "retrieved" apreposition from a di f ferent ARGUbIENTMAPPING for the verb or for a di f ferentargument than the one which is eventuallyproduced.
For example, confused withreplaces confused by in (10), and say toreplaces ay about in (11).
Such examplesare more prevalent in oral language.Handling these examples is diff icult sinceall sorts of contextual information --linguistic and non-linguistic -- goes intodetecting the error.
(10) They didn't want to be confused WITHthe facts.
11/14/88 DRS(11) The memorial service was really welldone.
The rabbi did a good job.
What doyou say TO a kid who died fike that?11/14/883.4 BLENDSHere, a lexically or phrasallydetermined preposition is replaced by apreposition associated with a semanticallysimilar lexical item.
In (12) Quayle says hewas smitten about Marilyn, possiblythinking of crazy about.
In (13) he may bethinking of on the subject/topic of.
Thequest ioner  in (14) may have insupport/favor of  in mind.
In (15) Quaylemay have meant we learn by makingmistakes.
In (16), the idiomatic phrase insupport of  is confused with theARGUlVlENT MAPPING of the nounsupport, e.g., "he showed his support for thepresident'.
(12) I was very smitten ABOUT her...
I sawa good thing and I responded rather quicklyand she did too.
10/20/88 WP, p. C8(13) ON the area of  the federal budgetdeficit .... 10/5/88 Sen. Quayle in vp  debate(& NYT 10/7/88 p. B6)(14) You made one of  the most eloquentspeeches IN behalf o f  contra aid.
10/5/88Questioner in VP debate (& NYT 10/7/88p.B6)(15) We learn BYour mistakes.
10/5/88 Sen.Quayle in vp  debate (& NYT 10/7/88 p.B6)(16) We testified in support FOR medicalleave.
10/22/88 FFS3.5 SEMANTIC FOR SYNTACTIC --WITH/BYIn the majority of the followingexamples, the syntactically governed bymarking passives is replaced by WITH.This alternation of with and by in passiveshas been attested for hundreds of years,and we hypothesize that English may be inthe process of reinterpreting by, as well asreplacing it with with in certain contexts.On the one hand, by is being reinterpretedas a marker of "archetypal" agents, i.e, thosehigh on the scale of AGENTIVITY (i.e.,speaker ?
human ?
animate ?
potent ?
non-animate, non-potent).
On the other hand,a semantically appropriate marker is being114substituted for by.We analyze the WITH in theseexamples either as the less agentiveAGENT (namely the INSTRUlVlENT) inexample (18), or the less agentive CO-THEME in example (17).
The substitutionsare semantically appropriate and thesubstitutes are semantically related toAGENT.
?
(17) All of Russian Hfe was accompaniedWITH some kind of singing.
8/5/88 ATC(18) Audiences here are especially enthusedWITH Dukakis's description of  theReagan-Bush economic policies.
11/5/88 ATC4.0 THE COMPUTATIONALIMPLEMENTATIONOf the five types of errors cited inSection 3, substitutions of semantic forsemantic (Section 3.1), semantic for lexical(Section 3.2), and semantic for syntactic(Section 3.5) are the simplest to handlecomputationally.4.1 SEMANTIC FOR SEMANTIC ORLEXICALThe representat ion  schemedescribed above (Section 2) facilitateshandling the semantic for semantic andsemantic for lexical substitutions.Semantic for semantic substitutionsare allowed if(i) the predicate belongs to thecommunication class and the standard CO-THEME marker is replaced by a GOALmarker, or(ii) the predicate incorporates a negativeand GOAL is substituted for a standardSOURCE, or vice versa.Semantic for lexical substitutionsare allowed if(iii) the non-standard preposition is a non-privative sister of the standard preposition(e.g., in the GOAL SUPERCLASS),(iv) "the non-standard preposition is theNLKB-inherited, "default" preposition forthe predicate (e.g., REFERENT forpredicates of cognition and knowledge), or(v) in the NLKB the predicate allows aSECONDARY-MAPPING of PLURAL-THElvIE (e.g., marital predicates as in thedivorce with example).Handling the use of a non-standardpreposition marking an argument cruciallyinvolves "type-checking', wherein the "type"of the noun phrase is checked, e.g.
formembership in an NLKB class such asanimate-creature, time, etc.
Type-checkingis also used to narrow the possible senses ofthe preposition in a prepositional phrase,as well as to prefer certain modifierattachments.Prepositional phrases can have tworelations to predicating expressions, i.e., agoverned argument (PREP-ARG) or anADJUNCT.
During parsing, the systemaccesses the ARGUMENT MAPPING forthe predicate; once the preposition isrecognized as the standard marker of anargument, an ADJUNCT reading isdisallowed.
The rule for PREP-ARG is aseparate rule in the grammar.
When thepreposition does not match the expectedpreposition, the system checks whether anyof the above conditions (i-v) hold; if so, theparse is accepted, but is assigned a lowerlikelihood.
If a parse of the PP as anADJUNCT is also accepted, it will bepreferred over the ill-formed PREP-ARG.4.2 SEMANTIC FOR SYNTACTICThe substitution of semanticmarking for syntactic (WITH for BY) iseasily handled: during semantic mappingby phrases in the ADJUNCTS are mappedto the role of the active subject, assumingthat "type checking" allows thatinterpretation f the noun phrase.
It is alsopossible for such a sentence to beambiguous, e.g., "he was seated by theman'.
We treat with phrases similarly,except hat ambiguity between CO-THEMEand PASSIVE SUBJECT is not allowed,based on our observation that with for byis used for noun phrases low on theanimacy scale.
Thus, only the CO-THEMEinterpretation is valid if the noun phrase isanimate.4.3 FALSE STARTS AND BLENDSFalse starts are more diff icult,requiring an approach similar to that ofcase grammar.
In these examples, thepreposition is acceptable with the verb, butnot to mark that particular argument.
The115type of the argument marked with the"incorrect" preposition must be quiteinconsistent with that sense of thepredicate for the error even to be noticed,since the preposition is acceptable withsome other sense.
We are assessing thefrequency of false starts in the variousgenres in which our system is being used,to determine whether we need to implementa strategy to handle these examples.
Wepred ic t  that  fu ture  systems forunderstanding spoken language will need toaccomodate his phenomenon.We do not handle blends currently.They involve a form of analogy, i.e.,smitten is like mad, syntactical ly,semantically, and even stylistically; theymay shed some light on language storageand retrieval.
Recognizing the similarity inorder to allow a principled handling seemsvery diff icult.In addition, blends may provideevidence for a "top down" languageproduction strategy, in which the argumentstructure is determined before the lexieaiitems are chosen/inserted.
Our datasuggest that some people may be moreprone to making this type of error than areothers.
Finally, blends are more frequentin genres in which people attempt o use astyle that they do not command (e.g.,student papers, radio talk shows).5.0 DIRECTIONS FOR FUTURE WORKIn this paper we have described afrequent type of il l-formed input whichNLP systems must handle, involving the useof non-standard prepositions to markarguments.
We presented a classification ofthese errors and described our algorithmfor handling some of these error types.
Theimportance of handling such non-standardinput will increase as speech recognitionbecomes more reliable, because spokeninput is less formal.In the near term, p lannedenhancements include adjusting theweighting scheme to more accuratelyreflect the empirical data.
A frequency-based model of preposition usage, based ona much larger and broader sampling of textwill improve system handling of thoseerrors.ACKNOWLEDGEMENTSWe would like to express ourapprec ia t ion  o f  our  co l leagues 'contributions to the SRA NLP system:Gayle Aycrs, Andrew FanG, Ben Fine,Karyn German, Mary Dee Harris, DavidReel, and Robert M. Simmons.REFERENCES1.
Aitchison, Jean.
1987.
Words in the Mind.Blackwell, NY.2.
Blejer, Hatte and Sharon Flank.
1988.More Evidence for the Semantic Basis ofPrepositional Case Marking, deliveredDecember 28, 1988, Linguistic Society ofAmerica Annual Meeting, New Orleans.3.
Bresnan, Joan, cd.
1982.
The MentalRepresentation of Grammatical Relations.MIT Press, Cambridge.4.
Carbonell, Jaime and Philip Hayes.
1983.Recovery  S t ra teg ies  fo r  Pars ingExtragrammatical Language.
AmericanJournal of Computational Linguistics 9(3-4):123-146.5.
Chierchia, Gennaro, Barbara Partee, andRaymond Turner, eds.
1989.
Properties,Types and Meaning.
Kluwer, Dordrecht.6.
Chomsky, Noam.
1981.
Lectures onGovernment and Binding.
Foris, Dordrecht.7.
Croft, William.
1986.
Categories andRelations in Syntax: The Clause-LevelOrganization of Information.
Ph.D.Dissertation, Stanford University.8.
Dahlgren, Kathleen.
1988.
NaiveSemantics for Natural  LanguageUnderstanding.
Kluwer, Boston.9.
Dirven, Rene and Gunter Radden, eds.1987.
Concepts o/ Case.
Gunter Narr,Tubingen.10.
Dowry, David.
1989.
On the SemanticContent of the Notion of 'Thematic Role'.In Chierchia, et al II:69-129.11.
Foley, William and Robert Van Valin Jr.1984.
Functional Syntax and UniversalGrammar.
Cambridge Univ.
Press,Cambridge.11612.
Gawron, Jean Mark.
1988.
LexicalRepresentations and the Semantics ofComplementation.
Garland, NY.13.
Gazdar, Gerald, Ewan Klein, GeoffreyPullum, and Ivan Sag.
(GKPS) 1985.Generalized Phrase Structure Grammar.Harvard Univ.
Press, Cambridge.14.
Gruber, Jeffrey.
1976.
LexicalStructures in Syntax and Semantics.
North-Holland, Amsterdam.15.
Haiman, John.
1985.
Natural Syntax:lconicity and Erosion.
CambridgeUniversity Press, Cambridge.16.
Hirst, Graeme.
1987.
SemanticInterpretation and the Resolution ofAmbiguity.
Cambridge University Press,Cambridge.17.
Ikegami, Yoshihiko.
1987.
'Source' vs.'Goal': a Case of Linguistic Dissymetry, inDirven and Radden 122-146.18.
Jackendoff, Ray.
1983.
Semantics andCognitwn.
MIT Press, Cambridge.19.
Jensen, Karen, George Heidorn, LanceMiller and Yael Ravin.
1983.
Parse Fittingand Prose Fixing: Getting a Hold on Ill-formedness.
American Journal ofComputational Linguistics 9(3-4): 147-160.20.
Menyuk, Paula.
1969.
Sentences ChildrenUse.
MIT Press, Cambridge.21.
Miller, Glenn and Philip Johnson-Laird.1976.
Language and Perception.
HarvardUniversity Press, Cambridge.22.
Ostler, Nicholas.
1980.
A Theory ofCase Linking and Agreement.
IndianaUniversity Linguistics Club.23.
Pinker, Steven.
1982.
A Theory of theAcquisition of Lexical InterpretiveGrammars, in Bresnan 655-726.24.
Shopen, Timothy, ed.
1985.
LanguageTypology and Syntactic Description.Cambridge University Press, Cambridge.25.
Somers, H. L. 1987.
Valency and Case inComputational Linguistics.
EdinburghUniversity Press, Edinburgh.26.
Talmy, Leonard.
1985.
LexicalizationPatterns: Semantic Structure in LexicalForms.
In Shopen III:57-149.27.
Tomita, Masuru.
1986.
Efficient Parsingfor Natural Language.
Kluwer, Boston.28.
Vendler, Zeno.
1967.
Linguistics inPhilosophy.
Cornell University Press,Ithaca.29.
Weischedel, Ralph and NormanSondheimer.
1983.
Meta-rules as a Basis forProcessing Ill-Formed Input.
AmericanJournal of Computational Linguistics 9(3-4):161-177.APPENDIX A.
DATA SOURCESATC: National Public Radio newsprogram, "All Things Considered"ME: National Public Radio newsprogram, "Morning Edition"WE: National Public Radio newsprogram, "Weekend Edition"MCS: WAMU radio, Washington D.C.,interview program, "The Mike CuthbertShow"DRS: WAMU radio, Washington D.C.,interview program, "Diane Rehm Show"FFS: WAMU radio, Washington D.C.,interview program, "Fred Fiske Saturday"AIH: Canadian Broadcasting Companyradio news program, "As It Happens"NYT: The New York TimesWP: The Washington PostETM_: Student journal for "EffectiveTeaching Methods," ajunior undergraduatecourse117
