REFERENCE TO LOCATIONSLewis  G. Creary ,  J.
Mark  Gawron ,  and  John  NerbonneHewlet t -Packaxd Laborator ies ,  3U1501 Page  Mil l  RoadPa lo  A l to ,  CA  94304-1126Abstract I.I Sketch  of  P roposa lWe propose a semantics for locative expressionssuch as near Jones or west of Denver, an impor-tant subsystem for NLP applications.
Locative ex-pressions denote regions of space, and serve as argu-ments to predicates, locating objects and events pa-tially.
Since simple locatives occupy argument posi-tions, they do NOT participate in scope ambiguities mpace one common view, which sees locatives as logicaloperators.
Our proposal justifies common representa-tional practice in computational linguistics, account-ing for how locative expressions function anaphori-tally, and explaining a wide range of inference in-volving locatives.
We further demonstrate how theargument analysis may accommodate multiple loca-tive arguments in a single predicate.
The analysis isimplemented for use in a database query application.1 IntroductionLocative expressions take diverse forms: in NewYork, here, there, nowhere, and on a boat he hasin Ohio.
They combine with common nouns (cityon the Rhine), or with verbs or verb-phrases (workin Boston), always locating objects and situations inspace.
Some temporal expressions are similar, but wefocus here on spatial locatives.The analysis was developed for use in an NLP sys-tem producing database queries; it is fully imple-mented and has been in frequent (developmental) usefor 18 months.
It is important o provide facilitiesfor reasoning about location in database query ap-plications because users typically do not query loca-tive information in the exact form it appears in thedatabase.
A database may e.g.
contain the infor-mation that a painting is in the Guggenheim Mu-seum, perhaps even that it's in the Guggenheim inNew York, and yet be helpless when queried whetherthat same painting is in the US.
In our implementa-tion information about location is represented usingthe logical analysis provided here.
Ii of course, the in?ormation that New York is in the US mustbe provided by a compatible geographical knowledge base.The provides general service: first, in collecting thedata relevant to a semantic analysis of locatives; sec-ond, in presenting the proposal in a fashion which ap-plies to other natural languages and other logical rep-resentations; and third, in noting the consequencesof our proposal for the organization of NLP  systems,specifically the cooperation of syntax and semantics.The behavior of locatives in inference and anaphorareflects their semantics.
This behavior justifies thehypothesis that (unquantified) locatives refer to re-gions, while related sequences of locatives refer tothe intersection of the regions associated with theircomponents.
E.g.
the phrase (sequence) in Canadaon the Atlantic Coast refers to the (maximal) regionwhich is both in Canada and on the Atlantic Coast.Locative adverbials within a verb phrase will thenbe seen to contribute to a location argument in pred-icates which identifies an area within which the pred-icate is asserted to hold.
The view that locativesoccupy an ARGUMENT position within a predicationis contrasted with the view that they are EXTER-NAL OPERATORS (cf.
Cresswell \[7\]), or MODIFIERS onpredications (cf.
Davidson \[8\] or Sondheimer \[18\]).In fact, however, the analysis of locative phrases asarguments jibes well with the practice of most com-putational linguists; cf.
Allen \[1\], pp.198-207 and thereferences there, \[1\], p.218.
The present effort con-tributes to the justification and explication of thispractice.Our approach is closest to Jackendoff \[12\].
Wefollow Jackendoff first, in suggesting that locativephrases are referential in the same way that nounphrases (NPs) are; and second, in taking locative ad-verbials to function as arguments.
But there is a sig-nificant foundational problem implicit in the hypoth-esis that locatives are arguments: locatives, unlikestandard arguments in the predicate calculus, appearoptionally and multiply.
Predicate logic does not ac-commodate the occurrence of multiple arguments ina single argument position.
We solve this techni-cal problem by allowing that multiple locatives CON-42STRAIN a single argument within a predication.
Thiseffectively challenges a standard assumption aboutthe syntax-semantics nterface, viz.
how syntactic el-ements map into arguments, but leads to an elegantsemantics.In addition to the adverbial use of locatives, werecognize a predicative use illustrated by (1).
Wereturn to these in Section 6 below.
(I) Tom is in Canada on the Atlantic Coast.2 The  Logic of LocativesIn this section we collect valid and invalid argument-patterns involving adverbial locatives.
A semantics oflocatives should explain the entailments we cataloghere.
We restrict our attention initially to locativephrases in which locations are specified with respectto logical individuals (denoted by proper names, e.g.
'Boston', 'Jones', or 'Mass Ave') because we assumethat their analysis is relatively uncontroversial.
2 Webegin by noting that any number of locatives mayadjoin to almost any verb (phrase);(2) Tom works on Mass Ave. in Boston near MIT.A natural question to ask, then, concerns the logicalrelation between complex clauses like (2) and simplerclauses eliminating one or more of its locatives.
Tobegin, the SIMPLIFYING INFERENCE in (3) is valid:(3) AI works in Boston.
.'.
AI works.Using multiple adjuncts doesn't disturb this patternof inference, as (4) and (5) illustrate:AI works on Mass Ave. in Boston.
(4) ".'.
'AI works in Boston.
(5) Al works on Mass Ave. in Boston.
.'.
Al works on Mass Ave.PERMUTING locative adjuncts has no effect ontruth conditions.
Thus the sentences in (6) are truth-conditionally equivalent.
Some are less felicitous thanothers, and they may manipulate discourse contextdifferently, but they all describe the same facts:2We don't think it matters whether the proper names aretaken to be indlvidtud constants, as they normally are, orwhether they are analyzed as restricted parameters, as situ-ation semantics (\[3\],pp.165-68) has suggested.
(6)AI works on Mass Ave in Boston near M ITAI works near M IT  on Mass Ave in BostonAl works near M IT  in Boston on Mass AveAl works in Boston near M IT  on Mass AveAI works in Boston on Mass Ave near M ITAl works on Mass Ave near M IT  in BostonEven though the simplifying inference in (3) isvalid, we must take care, since the complementary(accumulative) inference (7) is INVALID (but cf.
thevalid (8)):AI works in NY.
(7) AI works in Boston../.
AI works in NY in Boston.AI works in NY.
(8) AI works in Boston..'.
Al works in NY and in Boston.Finally, there is what we call the UPWARD MONO-TONICITY of locatives.
If a sentence locating some-thing at a region R is true, and if R is contained inthe region R ~, then a sentence locating that thing atR ~ is true:(9)A1 works in New York.New York is in the US..'.
AI works in the US.
(10)The dog sleeps under the table.Under the table is in the house (region"under the table" is contained inregion "in the house.").'.
The dog sleeps in the house.Notice in (10) that the locative phrases are specifiedwith respect not to locations, but to other logicalindividuals.
This is accomplished by the semanticsof the prepositions under and in; our proposal willrequire that locative PHRASES refer to regions, butnot that their subcomponents must.3 Other  Semant ic  Ev idence3.1  ScopeLocatives by themselves do NOT induce scope am-biguity with respect o negation, thus the semanticnonambiguity of (11); compare that with (12).
(11) Tina didn't work in New York.
(12) Tina didn't drink because of her husband.43The causal adjunct becanse of DOES induce a scopeambiguity with respect o negation.
That is why (12)has two readings, one (narrow scope negation) onwhich Tina's not drinking is in some way due to herhusband, another (wide-scope negation) which deniesthat Tina's drinking is because of her husband.
(11)shows no analogous scope ambiguity.
Thus, locativesappear to behave differently from at least some otheradjuncts in that they no show no scope variation withrespect o negation.The simplest explanation of this failure to inducescope ambiguity is to deny that simple locatives havescope, i.e.
to deny that they are logical operators orexternal modifiers.
We propose xactly this when wepostulate that they are arguments rather than op-erators.
We grant that locatives in sentence-initialposition DO display properties which suggest scope,but this needn't vitiate the argument analysis,Note that the "commutativity of locatives" shownin (6) is another indication of failure to scope: loca-tives fall to scope with respect o each other.3.1.1 Scope versus FocusIn evaluating the claim that no SCOPE AMBIGUITY ispossible in (11), it is important not to be confused bythe possibility of interpreting the FOCUS of negationin various ways.
The association of negation witha focused element is a well-discussed, if not not awell-understood, phenomenon i the literature (seeJackendoff (\[11\], pp.229-78), Chomsky (\[4\], pp.199-208), and Rooth \[17\] for discussions of focus).
Thecrucial point about focus is that it affects argumentsand adjuncts alike, and that ambiguities involving theassociation of negation with focus affect both.
Forexample,(13) Elizabeth Browning didn't adore Robert.The focus can be either on adore or on Robert, givingdifferent presuppositions, 4 even though the propername Robert is never analyzed as scope-inducing.3.2 Preposed LocativesPaEPOSED locatives do show properties that resemblescope.
Cf.
Thomason and Stalnaker (\[21\], p.205):nit is worth emphasizing that we are nanking a semanticpoint boa-e--there may be a syntactic (attachment) ambiguityin (11), but it's not one that has any semantic significance.t Relevant here is Horn's \[10\] notion of metallnguistic nega-tion, which accounts for purely contrastive or contradictingnegation.
The issues Horn discusses are also orthogonal tothe ambiguity in (12), since the ambiguity persists outside ofcontrastive contexts.In that restaurant, if John is asked to wear a(14) tie, he wears a tie.Here the preposed locative does not belong exclu-sively to either the antecedent or the consequent ofthe conditional; rather, the sentence says: if Johnis asked to wear a tie in that restaurant, he wearsa tie in that restaurant.
Thomason and Stalnakerargue hence that the locative must be treated seman-tically as a sentence operator.
Cf.
Cresswell (\[7\],p.217) points out another example where the resultof preposing a locative is not a simple paraphrase ofits "source":(15) At our house, everyone is eating.Everyone is eating at our house.Here there is a reading of the first which canbe paraphrased Everyone at our house is eating,where the quantifier is restricted to people at ourhouse.
The most important point to make hereis that "preposing" generates new readings, read-ings unavailable for unpreposed adverbial ocatives.So if these examples are evidence for a sentence-operator semantics for locatives, then it's a seman-tics limited to locatives found in this position.
The"wide-scope" readings occur only for locatives in this"topic" (sentence-initial) position, s It would be se-mantically implausible to regard the preposed adver-bials here as mere stylistic variants of nonpreposedelements,?
But we note further that locations can be restrictedby discourse context alone:(16) Joan lived in LA.
She often went swimming.We naturally interpret Joan as swimming in LA; andsuch effects can extend indefinitely through discourse.We propose to analyze both Thomason and Stal-naker's example and Cresswell's example as R.E-STRICTINO TOPIC locatives that restrict some loca-tion roles in the sentence to follow.
In the case of(14), the restriction applies to the locations of boththe antecedent and consequent clauses of the condi-tional sentence; in the case of (15), the restriction5Note that this is not normally the case for sentence-operator adverbials; The number of the planeta is necessarilynine is semantically ambiguous between a wide- and narrow-scope reading of neeessarlb.eIt is syntactically implausible as well to regard restrict-ing topic elements as stylistic variants of unpreposed lements,since some preposed ements can only occur preposed:Of the dogs at the show, only Schnauzers were affected.44applies to the quantifier Everyone, limiting its do-main to those individuals at "our house.
"7 This hasthe consequence that there is a class of restrictivetopic-position modifiers that cannot be analyzed aspreposed adverbials.3 .3  Ana logy  w i th  NPsJackendoff (\[12\], Chap.3) is partially devoted to ar-ticulating the strong semantic analogy between loca-tive phrases and noun phrases.
The analogy includesquantification, a distinction between definite and in-definite reference, deictic reference, and anaphora.Jackendoff's programmatic point is that the seman-tic status of locatives is therefore the same as that ofNPs: they both refer and both function as arguments.It is noteworthy that locatives have explicitly quan-tificational forms, as in:(17) Bill sang everywhere Mary sang.This suggests that quantified locatives have the samerelationship to simple locatives as general NPs (suchas erery small country) have to singular NPs (such asthe smallest country, a small country, and Honduras).Though SIMPLE locatives show no scope variationwith respect to other scope operators, quantified loca-tives (such as everywhere and nowhere) clearly do.But this scope is due to the quantification, ot to thelocative function.
Since locatives occupy argumentpositions in predications, quantified locatives are sim-ply quantifications over those predications, exactlyanalogous to nonlocative quantifications.Second, we find similarly noteworthy the indefi-nitely referring locative somewhere.
We note that itsparticular reference (like that of someone) is availablefor subsequent anaphoric use.
That is, (18) may beunderstood to claim that Ed works where AI works, s(18) AI lives somewhere on the Ohio,and Ed works there.Third, we note that deictic locative reference ispossible (using here or there), just as deictic non-locative reference is (using pronouns or demonstra-tives).
We address the fourth and final reminder ofthe analogy between NP and locative reference, loca-tive anaphora, in Section 3.4, immediately below.~'We don't claim to offer a complete analysis of these topic-locatives (nothing we have said makes it clear how these re-strictions are enforced, or what the constraints on them are);but we offer a plausibility argument that these ewe cases of asomewhat different color.SThis contrasts with examples of locative anaphors withshnple locative antecedents, examined below in Section 3.4.cf.
(19).3 .4  AnaphoraViewing simple locatives as analogous to singularNPs, we obtain a simple account of the anaphoric po-tential of locatives by taking them to denote spatialregions.
The functioning of locatives as antecedentsfor the locative pro-form there then provides addi-tional evidence that simple locatives are in a classwith singular NPs.
Consider:(19) A1 lives on the Ohio, and Ed works there.
(19) makes the claim, not that AI lives in the sameplace Ed works, but that he lives on the same riverthat AI works on.
Thus the reference of both on theOhio and there appears to be the entire spatial re-gion which is ON the Ohio (as opposed to any partic-ular subregion of it).
This region is uniquely (thoughvaguely) determined in a given context by the nameof the river and the particular preposition on.
Weare, in effect, claiming that the PP on the Ohio actsas a sort of definite description of a particular spatialregion.
Anaphoric reference back to it is referenceback to that same region.A further note is worthwhile here.
If the locativephrase on the Ohio in (19) refers to the entire regionwhich may be so described (as we've just argued),then the LOCATION role of the predicates LIVE andWORK must be construed as specifying a region 'withinwhich' a relation is somewhere instantiated.
Indeed,we postulate this as a general property of locationroles within all predicates.3 .5  Reg iona l  In tersect ionNext consider a more complicated version of (19):(20) AI lives on the Ohio in Kentucky,and Ed works there.In (20) one may understand there as referring to theintersection of the regions 'on the Ohio,' and 'in Ken-tucky' (and again, NOT to the particular subpart ofthat intersection where AI lives).
In fact, this readingis preferred.
(There may also be understood to referto one of the component superregious, and our anal-ysis is fully compatible with this possibility.)
Let'sconsider how best to supply the intersective r ferencefor the pronoun there.In (20) the two locative expressions in the firstclause simultaneously constrain the same locationrole.
In general, each successive locative in a clausefurther narrows the region filling the location role:(WORK agent : Ed(21) loc : ( n~reg:  {0N(Ohio), IN(Kentucky) }))45'n~' is the intersection operation over regions.
Cf.Section 5.2 for formal discussion.Now, since the filler of a Location role is alwaysa single region, the anaphoric potential illustrated in(20) Ls explained.
It would remain unexplained if eachlocative introduced a distinct predication.4 Syntax /Semant ics  Mapp ingWe employ a syntax/semantics nterface that's inno-vative in two respects: first, we allow that adjuncts(locatives) be interpreted as arguments, rather thanoperators.
Cf.
McConnell-Ginet (\[14\],p.167ff) fora similar proposal about manner adverbs.
Second,we allow that multiple locatives (in the same verbphrase) jointly determine a single location argumentvia the intersection of regions.
Thus we allow sev-eral syntactic dependents corresponding to a singlesemantic argument.
This challenges a standard work-ing assumption about the syntax-semantics mappingmade in a number of f rameworks ,  9 but it leads toa neuter semantic account: by allowing several loca-tive specifiers to constrain a single role, we accountmore easily for the permutability of locatives, and weprovide the right range of anaphoric antecedents.5 Formal  AspectsHere we describe the logical expressions into whichlocatives (and sentences containing them) are trans-lated, and the semantic interpretations of the logicalexpressions.5.1 Overv iew o f  NFLTOur logical formalism is called NFLT.
t?
It is a modifi-cation and augmentation fstandard predicate calcu-lus, with two modifications relevant here: predicatesand functors of variable arity, and a semantic inter-pretation in terms of situation-types.5.1.1 P red icate  and Funct ion  Express ionsPredications and functional terms in NFLT have anexplicit rolemark for each argument; in this respectNFLT resembles emantic network formalisms anddiffers from standard predicate calculus, where the9This doesn't contradict Montague's semantic theoriea, butit abandons the favored "functional pplication n mode of inter-pretation.
Cf.
Montague \[15\], p.202.
Neither verb (phrase) norlocative is interpreted as a function applying to the argumentsupplied by the other.l?Cf.
Creary and Pollard \[6\] for conceptual background,literature references, and more complete presentation f NFLT.roles are order-coded.
For example, atomic formulasin NFLT are constructed of a base-predicate and aset of rolemark-argument pairs, as in the followingtranslation of Tom works in Boston:(22) (WORK agent:TOMlocation:(IN theme:BOSTON))The explicit representation of roles permits eachpredicate- and function-symbol in NFLT to take avariable number of arguments, so that different oc-currences of a verb are represented with the samepredicate-symbol, despite differences in valence (i.e.number and identity of attached complements andadjuncts).
115.2 Functional Location TermsFunctional location terms are functional terms denot-ing regions.
These are of two general sorts, simpleand intersective.
The simple ones consist of a prepo-sitional functor applied to an appropriate argument,while the intersective ones consist of a regional in-tersection functor applied to a set of regions.
As anexample, consider the following location term, whichmight serve as the translation (in a given context) ofthe iterated locatives on the Ohio in Kentucky nearIllinois:(23)(N=reg:{ON3(OHIO),IN(KENTUCKY),NEAEI(ILLINOIS)})This is a complex location term whose componentsare simple functional location terms.
NE.L~I shoulddenote (e.g.)
a function that maps Illinois onto aregion beginning at its borders and extending out ashort distance.The functor of an intersective location term de-notes the regional intersection function, which mapsRI, R~, .
.
.
,  Rn onto their intersection R. More for-mally, we postulate that spatial regions, partially or-dered by the subregion relation (written __.~), form aLATTICr..
The intersection of regions is then theirlattice-theoretic MEET (written 17~), the greatestlower bound with respect o C,~.The eommutativity and associativity of n~ jus-tify specifying its arguments via sets.
The order-indifference of set specification accounts for the per-mutability of locatives illustrated in (6).We will also make use of the following familiar lat-tice theorem:l l In order to save space, we shall write I I(Boston) for ( I Ithe~ : BOSTON), however.46(Ex sub:(rlxreg:{R1,R2,..., P~})(24) eup: ( l ' l=reg:{R1,R2, .
.
.
,  P~})  ) ,where l~m~.
.According to (24), an intersective location term T al-ways denotes a subregion of the region denoted by theresult of deleting some (but not all) of the argument-terms of T.5.3 Located Predicat ionsThis is a fact about situations being located in space:if an event or state occurs or obtains within a regionR, then it occurs or obtains within any region R'containing R:(25)( ( (~  eub:R eup:R')A (PRED ... loc:R))(PRED ... loc:R'))This is simply a statement of upward monotonicityfor the location arguments of relations.
The schemata(24) and (25) together justify the inference schema(26)(g0RK agt;:TOMloc : (nxreg :{R l , .
.
.
, \ ]~}) ). '
.
(WORK agt:TOMlo?
: (nxreg :{R l , .
.
.
,~}) ) ,where l~m~n.This accounts for the correctness of the locative-simplifying inferences in (4) and (5).The other sort of simplifying inference given in Sec-tion 2 was that exemplified in (3), the inference fromTom's working in Boston to Tom's working.
In NFLTthis inference is formulated thus:(NORK ag't:TOM loc:IN(BOSTON))(27) .-.
(woRK ag~:T0X)Both the premise and the conclusion of (27) are in-terpreted as denoting situation-types; each is true ifthere exists a situation of the type it denotes.
Sinceevery situation of the type denoted by the premiseis necessarily also of the type denoted by the con-clusion, the truth of the premise necessarily entailsthe truth of the conclusion.
This accounts for thevalidity of (3) in the situation-theoretic framework ofNFLT.
In a fixed-arity framework, one would repre-sent the conclusion as existentially quantifying over alocation argument-position; the inference would thenbe existential generalization.We recall that (7), repeated here for convenience,is invalid, while the similar (8) (right) is valid:Tom works in NY.Tom works in Boston..~.
Tom works in NY  in Boston.Tom works in NY.Tom works in Boston..'.
Tom works in NY  and in Boston.The reason is that the premises of the former maylocate two different 'working' events while its conclu-sion refers to one.
The conclusion of the latter, on theother hand, may refer to distinct 'working' events.
Itstranslation into NFLT is:((WORK agt:TOM loc:IN(~P\[)) A(28) (W0RK ag~:TOM loc:IN(BOSTON)) )This conclusion is nothing more than the conjunctionof the premises.6 Adnomina l  Locat ivesWe propose above that the ability to induce scopeeffects is a litmus test for distinguishing argumentsand operators.
This test, together with anaphoricevidence, suggests a heterodox treatment of adnomi-nal locatives.
In a nutshell, these locatives might bearguments as well.
(29) Few cars in Ohio rust.
(30) (FEg x (CAR inszance:x loc:IN(0HI0))(RUST thm:x))There is a reasonable competing (predicative) analy-sis of the use of adnominal locatives, however.
(31)(FEW x ((CAR instance:x) A(LOCATED thm:x loc:IN(0HI0)))(RUST ~ha:x))Note that in both formulations there is reference toa region, and that the locative cannot participate inscope ambiguities.
1212We leave as an exercise for the reader to show that thewell known (semantically significant) attachment ambiguitybetween adverbial and adnominal loactives may be representedh~re:Tom evaluated a car in Ohio.477 Other Proposals7.1 External Operator AnalysisCresswell (\[7\], p.13) poses the problem of analysis foradverbial modification thus:There are two basic approaches to theanalysis of adverbial constructions \[...\] Oneis to follow Richard Montague and treatthem as sentential operators of the samesyntactical category as not.
The other is tofollow Donald Davidson and represent themin the predicate calculus with the aid of anextra argument place in the verb to be mod-ified \[...\]We suspect that Cresswell would classify the tacktaken toward locative adverbials in this paper as an"extra argument" analysis, but we shall note be-low some important differences between our approachand Davidson's.We find fault with the operator analysis of locativeadverbials since it inherently attributes a scope tolocatives which, as Section 3.1 shows, isn't reflectedin natural language semantics.
It is also clear thatthe simplifying and commutative inferences for loca-tives noted in Section 2 are not predicted by the ex-ternal operator analysis.
Locatives wouldn't neces-sarily have these properties any more than negationor the modal adverbs.
Finally, we note as problem-atic the comportment of the operator analysis withthe anaphoric evidence, particularly where multiplelocatives are concerned.7.2 Davidsonian AnalysesDavidson \[8\], and, following him, Bartsch \[2\] andSondheimer \[18\] have proposed that adverbial modifi-cation is best represented using an unexpected argu-ment place within a predicate.
Bartsch (\[2\], pp.122-39) and Sondheimer \[18\] focus on locative construc-tions, so we concentrate on those works here.
Sond-heimer (\[18\], pp.237-39) provides the following anal-ysis:(32)John stumbled in the park under a tree.3e(Stmbl(J,e) A In(e,p) A Under(e,t))The standard logic textbook representation of an in-transitive verb such as stumble uses a ONE-PLACEpredicate, where Sondheimer, following Davidson,uses the TWO-PLACE predicate signifying a relationbetween an individual and an event.
This is the "ex-tra argument place" that distinguishes Davidsoniantreatments.
It is worth noting that this approach ac-counts for the logical properties of locatives that wenoted in Section (2) above.
The simplification andcommutativity of locatives follow from the proposi-tional logic of conjunction.The most important differences between Davidso-nian analyses and our own are the ability to accountfor locative anaphors, and the treatment of scope.As presented in Section 3.4 above, our treatmentprovides correct regional antecedents for the loca-tive anaphor there.
On the other hand, Davidsoniantreatments make no explicit reference to regions at all(to which anaphors might refer), and further provideno mechanism for referring to the intersective regionsthat were seen to be required in the analysis of (20).Our analysis places simple locatives within thescope of all sentence operators.
The Davidsoniananalysis creates multiple propositions, and scope-inducing elements such as negation can then be ana-lyzed as including some, but not all of these proposi-tions within their scope.
For this reason, Davidsoniantreatments are much less specific in their predictionsvis-a-vis scope (than the one proposed here).
Bartsch(\[2\], p.133) indicates e.g.
that she would allow sen-tential negation to have scope over some of the con-juncts in logical forms such as (32), but not others;and Sondheirner (\[18\], p.250) seems to have a similarmove in mind in his discussion of almost as in I al-most locked him in the closet.
As indicated in Section3.2 above, we regard such renderings as confusions ofscope and focus.7.3 Other  WorksJackendoff (\[12\], Chap.3,9) argues that reference toplaces be recognized in semantic theory, thus allow-ing that locative phrases refer in the same way thatNPs do, and that they function as arguments.
ButJackendoff never examined inferences involving loca-tives, nor did he attempt o deal with the prima fa-cie difficulties of the argument analysis--the fact thatlocatives occur optionally and multiply.
It is the lat-ter facts which make the argument analysis techni-cally difficult.
Finally, where we have been preciseabout the semantics of the location role, emphasizingthat it specifies a region WITHIN WHICH a relationmust hold, Jackendoff was less exact.
On the otherhand, Jackendoff's analysis of PATH EXPRESSIONS isintriguingly analogous to that of locatives, and offersopportunity for extension of the work here.Colban (\[5\]) analyzes locatives in situation seman-tics, and would like to have the operator/argument48issue both ways: he allows that locatives might beexternal modifiers or arguments.
But he offers no ev-idence to support this postulate of ambiguity.
TerMeulen (\[20\], also working within situation seman-tics, provides a means of referring to the location ofcomplex events, such as the event of two detectives (33)solving a crime.
She crucially requires a reference forlocative xpressions, and her proposals eem compat-ible with ours.Talmy \[19\], Herskovits \[9\], and Kautz \[13\] theorizeabout the INTERPRETATION of locative expressions,and especially how this is affected by the sorts of ob-jects referred to in locative expressions.
Much of thislatter work may be regarded as complementary to ourown, since we have not attempted to characterize inany detail the manner in which context affects the (34)choice of functional denotation for particular locativeprepositions.8 Conclusions8.1 Claims1...4 .Locative expressions (e.g.
north of Boston nearHarry) denote regions of space.
The denotationsmay be referred to anaphorically.Locative expressions are used adverbially to con-strain a location argument in a relation definedby a verb.
Thus simple locatives fail to showscope (like proper names).Relations are upwardly monotonic at location ar-guments: if a relation holds at R, then it holdsat every containing R I.When multiple locatives are used, the intersec-tion of their denoted regions plays 8 locationrole.
This describes the truth conditions andanaphoric potential of such uses, and predictscorrectly the permutability and omissibility oflocatives.8.2 QualificationsWe don't claim that all reference to regions is throughupwardly monotonic location arguments.
On thecontrary, regions can stand in relations in a varietyof other ways.
To take an obvious case, the sub-region relation is upwardly monotonic (transitive),but only in one (superregion) argument--it's not up-wardly monotonic in the first (subregion) argument.Here are two more fairly transparent examples of ref-erence to locations that don't involve the location at-guments of predicates, and therefore aren't upwardlymonotonic:Tom likes it in Mendocino../.
Tom likes it in California.George VI ruled in England../.
George VI ruled in Europe.We claim that the regions referred to in (33) aren'tlocation arguments, but rather theme (or patient) ar-guments.
There are other examples of monotonicityfailing that are less easily dismissed, however:It is the tallest in Palo Alto./.
It is the tallest in California.He is alone in the dining room..f. He is alone in the house.The apparent location argument of these relations(and of all superlatives) is especially interesting be-cause it not only fails to be upwardly monotonic, iteven turns out to be downwardly monotonic.
We wishto deny that these phrases denote regions which playlocation roles--more specifically, we allow that thephrases denote regions, but we distinguish the seman-tic role that the regions play.
In the case of LOCATIONarguments, the intended semantics requires that therelation hold somewhere within the region denoted.In the case of (34), however, the relation can onlyhold be said to hold if it holds fhrougho,t the regiondenoted.
It is this implicit (universal) quantificationthat explains the failure of upward monotonicity, ofcourse.
We symbolize this sort of role as "throughout,and represent the downwardly monotonic (34) in thefollowing way:(TALLEST tim: ?
(35) throughout  : In (Pa.Zo-Alt o) )(We emphasize that this is intended to illustratethe distinction between the various semantic rolesthat locations play--it is not proferred as a seriousanalysis of the superlative.
)8.3 Future DirectionsWe'd like to improve this account in several ways:first, we'd like to understand the interface betweenthe syntax and semantics more rigorously.
Section 4explains what is unusual about our views here, butthe model of syntax/semantics cooperation it sug-gests is something we'd like to explore.
Second, weneed an account of preposed locatives, as Section 3.249admits.
Third, we'd like to describe the relationshipbetween predicates relating objects and regions onthe one hand with regions occupied by the objects, asSection 6 shows.
Fourth, we'd be interested in explor-ing the relation between our work on the semanticsof locatives with work on the contextually dependentinterpretation of locatives, such as the work by Her-skovits \[9\] and Retz-Schmidt \[16\].9 AcknowledgementsWe're indebted to Carl Pollard for the suggestion touse the algebraic operator 'N~ We'd like to thankhim, Barbara Partee, David Dowry, and our col-leagues in the Natural Language Project at Hewlett-Packard Laboratories, especially Bill Ladusaw, fordiscussion and criticism of the ideas presented here.References\[1\] James Allen.
Natural Language Understanding.Benjamin/Cummings, Menlo Park, 1987.\[2\] l~nate Bartsch.
Adverbialsemantik.
Athenaum,Frankfurt, 1972.\[3\] Jon Barwise and John Perry.
Situations and At-titudes.
MIT Press, Cambridge, 1983.\[41 Noam A. Chomsky.
Deep structure, surfacestructure, and semantic interpretation.
InDanny D. Steinberg and Leon A. Jacobovits, ed-itors, Semantics: An Interdiscipinary Reader inPhilosophy, Linguistics, and Psychology, pages183-216.
Cambridge University Press, Cam-bridge, 1970.\[5\] Erik Colban.
Prepositional phrases in situationschemata.
In Jens Erik Fenstad, Per-KristianHalvorsen, Tore Langholm, and Johan van Ben-them, editors, Situations, Language, and Logic,pages 133-156.
Reidel, Dordrecht, 1987.\[6\] Lewis G. Creary and Carl J. Pollard.
A compu-tational semantics for natural language.
In Pro-ceedings of the ~Sth Annual Meeting of the As-sociation for Computational Linguistics, pages172-179, 1985.IT\] M. J. CressweU.
Adverbial Modification: IntervalSemantics and its Rivals.
D.Reidel, Dordrecht,1985.\[8\] Donald Davidson.
The logical form of action sen-tences.
In Nicholas Rescher, editor, The Logic ofDecision and Action, pages 81-95.
University ofPittsburgh Press, Pittsburgh, 1967.\[9\] Annette Herskovits.
Space and Prepositionsin English: Regularities and Irregularities in aComplez Domain.
Cambridge University Press,Cambridge, England, 1985.\[10\] Laurence R. Horn.
Metafinguistic negation andpragmatic ambiguity.
Language, 61(1):121-174,1985.\[11\] Ray Jackendoff.
Semantics Interpretation inGenerative Grammar.
MIT Press, Cambridge,1972.\[12\] Ray Jackendoff.
Semantics and Cognition.
MITPress, Cambridge, Massachusetts, 1983.\[13\] Henry A. Kautz.
Formalizing spatial conceptsand spatial concepts.
In Hobbs et at., editor,Commonsense Summer: Final Report, pages2.1-2.45.
CSLI, 1985.\[14\] Sally McConnell-Ginet.
Adverbs and logicalform.
Language, 58(1):144-184, 1982.\[15\] Richard Montague.
English as a formal lan-guage.
In Bruno Visentini, editor, LingnaggineUa societa e nella tecnica.
Edizioni di Comu-nita, Milan, 1970.\[16\] Gudula Retz-Schmidt.
Various views on spatialprepositions.
AI Magazine, 9(2):95-105, 1988.\[17\] Mats Rooth.
Association and Focus.
PhD thesis,University of Massachusetts at Amherst, 1986.\[18\] Norman K. Sondheimer.
Reference to spatialproperties.
Linguistics and Philosophy, 2(2),1978.\[19\] Leonard Talmy.
How language structures space.In Herbert Pick and Linda Acredolo, editors,Spatial Orientation: Theory, Research, and Ap-plication.
Plenum Press, 1983.\[20\] Alice ter Meulen.
Locating events.
InJeroen Groenendijk, Dick de Jongh, and Mar-tin Stokhof, editors, Foundations of Pragmaticsand Lezical Semantics, pages 27-40.
Forts, Dor-drecht, 1986.\[21\] Richmond Thomason and Robert Stalnaker.
Asemantic theory of adverbs.
Linguistic Inquiry,4(2), 1973.5O
