DESIGNER DEF IN ITES  IN LOGICAL  FORMMary  P. Harper*School  of E lect r i ca l  Eng ineer ingPurdue  Un ivers i tyWest  La fayet te ,  IN 47907Abst ractIn this paper, we represent singular definite nounphrases as functions in logical form.
This represen-tation is designed to model the behaviors of bothanaphoric and non-anaphoric, distributive definites.It is also designed to obey the computational con-straints suggested in Harper \[Har88\].
Our initialrepresentation f a definite places an upper boundon its behavior given its structure and location ina sentence.
Later, when ambiguity is resolved, theprecise behavior of the definite is pinpointed.1 Introduct ionA goal of natural language research is to providea computer model capable of understanding En-glish sentences.
One approach to constructing thismodel requires the generation of an unambiguousinternal representation for each sentence before at-tempting to represent subsequent sentences.
Natu-ral language systems that attempt o guess the in-tended meaning of a sentence without consideringsubsequent sentences usually make no provision forrecovery from incorrect guesses ince that would re-quire storing information about the ambiguity of thesentence.
Hence, this approach may require the pro-cessing of several sentences before enough informa-tion is available to determine the intended meaningof the sentence being represented.
However, in or-der to make the inferences necessary to resolve someambiguities, ome internal representation is neededfor both the current sentence as well as subsequentsentences.
A more powerful approach is to leavethe ambiguity unresolved in an intermediate r pre-sentation until the necessary information has beenprocessed.
We adopt this second approach, whichadvocates mapping parsed sentences into an inter-mediate level of representation called logical form*This paper contains results from the author's the-sis in the Computer Science Department at Brown Uni-versity.
The paper has benefited from discussions withEugene Charniak, Kate Sanders, Leora Morgenstern,Tom Dean, Paul Harper and Frederic Evans.
The workwas supported in part by the NSF grants IST 8416034and IST 8515005, ONR grant N00014-79-C-0529, andAFOSR grant F49620-88-c-0132.62\[SP84; All87; Har88\].
Logical form partially spec-ifies the meaning of a sentence based on syntacticand sentence-level information, without consideringthe effect ofpragmatics and context.
Later, as moreinformation becomes available, the representation fthe sentence is incrementally updated until all am-biguities have been resolved.In the literature, two sources of ambiguity havebeen handled using logical form, quantifier scop-ing (see \[SP84; Al187\]) and pronoun resolution (see\[Har88; Har90\]).
In this paper, we will discuss theuse of logical form for handling the ambiguities inthe meanings of singular definite noun phrases.
Butfirst, it will be useful to briefly review the logicalform for pronouns.2 Pronouns  in Logical FormPronouns are a source of underspecification in a sen-tence which can be handled in logical form.
Theantecedent of a pronoun cannot be immediately de-termined when the sentence containing it is parsed.Contextual and syntactic onstraints combine to al-low a listener/reader to decide on the antecedent fora certain pronoun.
In Harper \[Har88; Har90\], wedevised a logical form representation for pronouns.This representation divides the process of deter-mining the meaning of a pronoun into two phases.First, the representation for the pronoun is deter-mined using only syntactic and sentence-level infor-mation.
Then, once the antecedent is determined,a feat which often requires pragmatic and contex-tual information available in subsequent sentences,we provide a way to update our logical form to in-dicate this information.Our logical form representation for pronouns wasdesigned with two goals in mind.
First, we requiredour representation to be compatible with the goal ofdevising a computational model of language com-prehension.
In fact, we defined three constraintsfor using logical form in a computational framework(from \[Har88\] and \[Harg0\]).1.
Compactness  Const ra int :  Logical formshould compactly represent ambiguity.2.
Modu lar i ty  Const ra in t :  Logical formshould be initially computable from syntaxand local (sentence-level) semantics.
In par-ticular, logical form should not be dependenton pragmatics, which requires inference andhence, internal representation.3.
Formal  Cons istency Constra int :  Furtherprocessing of logical form should only disam-biguate or further specify logical form.
Logicalform has a meaning.
Any further processingmust respect hat meaning.First, the compactness constraint captures the spiritof logical form as presented by Allen \[Al187\].
Sec-ond, if the modularity constraint is violated, thevalue of computing logical form is lost.
Finally, theformal consistency constraint keeps us honest.
Ini-tially, logical form provides a composite representa-tion for a sentence.
However, as more informationbecomes available, then the meaning of the sentencewill be incrementally updated until all ambiguity isresolved.
We cannot modify logical form in any waythat contradicts its original meaning.The second goal of our approach was to accu-rately model the linguistic behavior of pronounswhile obeying our logical form constraints.
Sincepronouns have a range of behaviors between vari-ables on the one hand and constants on the other,the initial logical form for a pronoun must be com-patible with both extremes (to model the range ofpronoun behaviors and to be consistent with thecompactness and formal consistency constraints).Hence, we provided a composite representation fora pronoun, one compatible with any possible an-tecedent i can have given its position in a sentence.Pronouns in a sentence are represented as part ofthe process of providing logical form for that sen-tence.
We enumerate the important features of asentence's representation.1.
A sentence is represented as a predicate-argument structure, with subjects lambdaabstracted to handle verb phrase ellipsis.Lambda operators are necessary for handlingexamples of verb phrase ellipsis.
The secondsentence in Example 1 is a sentence with verbphrase ellipsis (also called an elided sentence).Example  1Trigger Sentence: Fredi loves hisi wife.Elided Sentence: Georgej does too.Meanings :a. George loves Fred's wife.b.
George loves George's wife.Assuming that the meaning of the elided verbphrase is inherited from the representation fthe trigger sentence's verb phrase, then the thepronoun his in the trigger verb phrase must beable to refer indirectly to the subject Fred in63order for the sloppy reading of the elided sen-tence (i.e., George loves George's wife) to beavailable.
All sentences are potentially trig-ger sentences; hence, we lambda abstract hesyntactic subjects of all sentences (followingWebber \[Web78\] and Sag \[Sag76\]).2.
The logical roles of all noun phrases in a sen-tence are identified by position in logical form(logical subject first, logical object second, log-ical indirect object third, etc.).3.
We represent universal noun phrases as univer-sally quantified (and restricted) variables andindefinite noun phrases as existentially quanti-fied (and restricted) variables (following Web-her \[Web78\]).4.
Quantifier scope ambiguity is handled in thesame way as in Allen \[All87\].
Initially, we placequantifiers in the predicate-argument struc-ture (except for subjects).
Later, when infor-mation becomes available for making scopingdecisions, quantifier scoping is indicated (dis-cussed in Harper \[Har90\]).A composite representation for a pronoun is pro-vided once the parse tree for the sentence contain-ing it is available.
When the parse tree is provided,we can determine all of the quantified noun phrasesthat are possible antecedents for a pronoun in thesentence (see l~einhart \[Rei83\]).
Hence, we repre-sent a pronoun initially as a function of all of thevariables associated with noun phrases that are pos-sible antecedents for or distribute over possible an-tecedents for the pronoun.
To handle verb phraseellipsis, the argument list must also include thelambda variables corresponding to syntactic sub-jects.
A pronoun is represented as a uniquely-namedfunction of all lambda variables (associated withsubjects) which have scope over it in logical form,any non-subject quantified variables correspondingto noun phrases that c-command the pronoun (fol-lowing Reinhart \[Rei83\]), and any quantified nounphrase not embedded in a relative clause but con-tained in a noun phrase that c-commands the pro-noun.
The lambda variable of a quantified subjectsubsumes the subject's quantified variable becausethe lambda operator abstracts the quantified vari-able.
Our logical form representation for pronounssummarizes all of the operators that can directlyaffect their final meanings.
Hence, the representa-tion is useful for limiting the possible antecedentsof a pronoun.
For example, a pronoun function cantake a universal noun phrase as its antecedent if andonly if the universal variable (or the variable corre-sponding to the lambda operator that abstracts theuniversal variable) is included in the function's ar-gument list.Consider a simple example to demonstrate theinitial representation f the following sentence.Example  2Every teacher gave every student his paper.Yx: (teacher x)x, A(y)(give y (paper-of (hisa y z))\[Vz: (student z) z\])The syntactic subject of the sentence is univer-sally quantified, and the restriction on the quan-tifier is indicated after the colon 1.
The syntac-tic subject of the sentence is abstracted from thepredicate-argument structure representing the sen-tence.
Hence, the verb phrase, represented as alambda function, is separable from the subject.
Thesubject's position is maintained in the lambda func-tion by the lambda variable.
Notice that the defi-nite noun phrase his paper is represented here asa function of the pronoun.
Shortly, we will pro-vide a more general representation for definite nounphrases.
Notice that the pronoun his is representedas a function of subject's lambda variable plus theuniversal variable corresponding to every student.This list of arguments corresponds to the opera-tors for noun phrases that can be antecedents forthe pronoun given the syntactic onstraints or candistribute over possible definite antecedents.
No-tice that the subject's lambda variable subsumes thesubject's universal variable.
The reader should notethat quantifier scoping is not indicated in our initiallogical form (following Allen \[Al187\]).The representation for the pronoun in 2 is acomposite representation, that is it indicates all ofthe operators that can affect its final meaning.
Infact, before the final meaning of the sentence canbe given, the antecedent for the pronoun must bedetermined and made explicit in our logical form.Though the process of determining antecedents forpronouns is beyond the scope of this paper, when apronoun's antecedent is known (requiring additionalpragmatic information), the logical form containingit must be updated in a way compatible with itsinitial representation (because of the formal consis-tency constraint).
Suppose that we decide that theantecedent for his in example 2 is every student,then the logical form is be modified as shown in 3.1The colon following the quantifier is syntactic sugarwhich expands the restriction differently depending onthe type of quantifier.
If a sentence is represented as3x:(R x) (P x), then the meaning is 3x (and (R x) (P x)).If a sentence is represented asVx: (R x) (P x), then itis expanded as vx (if (R x) (P x)).Example  3Every teacherl gave every student./ hisj paper.VX: (teacher x)x, A(y)(and (give y (paper-of (his1 y z))\[Vz: (student z) z\])(= (hisl y z) z))This update is compatible with the pronoun's initialrepresentation.
We are indicating that the function(his1 y z) is really the identity function on z. InHarper \[Har88\], we fully specify how logical formis updated when a pronoun's antecedent has beendetermined.3 Def in i tes :  Behav iors  toCoverIn the rest of this paper, we develop our logical formrepresentation for singular definite noun phrases.As for pronouns, we wish to obey our computationalconstraints while providing a good model of definitebehavior.
Consider the behaviors of definit.es wewish to cover.Like pronouns, definite noun phrases can beanaphoric.
Anaphoric definites can either dependon linguistic antecedents (in either the same or pre-vious sentences) or can denote salient individuals inthe environment of the speaker/hearer (also calleddeictic use).
Because of our logical form constraints,in particular because of the compactness and for-mal consistency constraints, the initial representa-tion for a definite noun phrase must be compatiblewith the representations of its possible antecedents.Definite noun phrases can have intrasentential n-tecedents as in example 4.Example  4Every boy~ saw (hisl dog)j before the beastjsaw himi.64In this case, the definite noun phrase acts like auniversally quantified variable (adopting the behav-ior of its antecedent in much the same way as apronoun).Definites, unlike pronouns, can also have a com-plex syntactic structure.
Pronouns and other nounphrases can be attached to a definite noun phrasein different ways.
First, consider the effect em-bedded pronouns have on definite noun phrases.While simple definites (which are not intrasententialanaphors) seem to act like constants when they oc-cur in a sentence with a universal noun phrase (e.g.,5a), definite noun phrases with embedded pronounsoften cannot be described as constants (e.g., 5b).Example  5a.
Every boy loves the woman.b.
Every boy loves his mother.The meaning of his mother depends on how the pro-noun is resolved.
If the antecedent for his is foundin another sentence, then his mother could be rep-resented as a constant.
In contrast, if every boy isthe antecedent for his, then the universal quanti-fier corresponding to every boy distributes over hismother.
When a quantifier distributes over a defi-nite, the definite changes what it denotes based onthe values assigned to the quantified variable.Embedded quantified noun phrases can also dis-tribute over a definite noun phrase, preventing itfrom acting like a constant.
For example, the uni-versal possessive noun phrase distributes over thedefinite in the following sentence.
The definite inthis case cannot be described as a constant.Example  6George loves every man's wife.However, not all embedded quantified noun phrasescan distribute over a definite.
When quantified nounphrases are embedded in relative clauses attachedto a definite noun phrase, they cannot distributeover that noun phrase.
This constraint (related tothe complex noun phrase constraint, first noted by\[Ros67\]) prohibits quantifiers from moving out of arelative clause attached to a noun phrase.
For ex-ample:Example  7George saw the mother who cares for every boy.In this case, the mother who cares for every boy de-notes one specific mother.
In such cases, the univer-sal cannot distribute over the definite it is attachedto or have scope over other quantified noun phrasesoutside of the relative clause.Thus, the meaning of a definite noun phrase isaffected by its structure, whether it contains pro-nouns, and whether or not it is used anaphorically.If used anaphorically, it should behave in a way con-sistent with its antecedent, just like a pronoun.
If itcontains pronouns, then its meaning should dependon the antecedents chosen for those pronouns.
Ifit contains embedded quantified noun phrases (notsubject o the relative clause island constraint), thenthose embedded noun phrases may distribute overthe definite.In the remainder of this paper, we introduce ourlogical form representation for definites.
We discussthe initial representation f definites, which must beable to encompass all of the above definite behav-iors.
We also describe the ways this logical form isupdated once ambiguity is resolved.4 Our Representation ofDefinite Noun PhrasesIn this section, we develop a representation for def-inites in logical form.
The logical form represen-tation for a definite noun phrase presents a chal-lenge to our approach.
To be consistent with themodularity constraint, we must provide an initialrepresentation for a definite noun phrase that canbe generated before we know the antecedents forany embedded pronouns or before we know the def-inite's antecedent (if it is anaphoric).
To obey thecompactness and formal consistency constraints, wemust initially represent a definite so it is consistentwith all the ways it can possibly act.
As more in-formation becomes available about the meaning ofthe definite noun phrase, we must be able to updatelogical form in a way compatible with its initial rep-resentation.
Our logical form for a definite must bea composite representation compatible with its pos-sible behaviors.
We cannot provide different initialrepresentations for a definite depending on use, oth-erwise we violate the compactness constraint.
Ad-ditionally, unless our initial representation is com-patible with all possible behaviors, we could violatethe formal consistency constraint when we updatelogical form.We represent a definite as a named function ofall of the variables associated with operators thatcan affect its meaning.
This representation satis-fies our constraints by combining the advantages ofdefinite descriptions (discussed in Harper \[Har90\])with the functional notation we introduced to rep-resent pronouns.
Each definite function is definedby a unique name (i.e., defwith a unique integer ap-pended to it), a list of arguments, and a restriction.The restriction of a definite function is derived fromthe words following the determiner.
The argumentlist of the function consists of the variables associ-ated with lambda operators that have scope over itsposition, any variables associated with non-subjectquantified noun phrases that could bind a pronounin that position, and any quantified variables asso-ciated with embedded quantified noun phrases thatare not embedded in a relative clause attached toa noun phrase 2.
Because a definite function has aunique name, we can differentiate two occurrencesof the same definite noun phrase, in contrast o def-inite descriptions \[RusT1\] (for more information onthe shortcomings of definite descriptions and defi-nite quantifiers, see \[Harg0; Hin85\]).2We should also add that a sententially attached PPwith a quantified object can quantify over a definite aswell (as in, In every car, the driver turned the steeringwheel.
This sentence is tricky because we seem to beattaching the PP to both of the NPs while leaving thequantifier to distribute over both definites).65Consider the initial representation of a sentencecontaining a definite noun phrase before the an-tecedent of an embedded pronoun is known:Example  8Every man showed every boy his picture.VX: (man X)x, A(y) (show y((defl y z) I(and (picture (dell y z))(possess (his2 y z)(dell y z) )))\[Vz: (boy z) z\])The representation of this sentence is very similarto example 2 except for the representation of thedefinite noun phrase.
Notice that his picture is rep-resented as a function called defl.
The restrictionof the function is the conjunction of statements fol-lowing the vertical bar.
The vertical bar is syntacticsugar and should be expanded like the colon in anexistential's restriction (but not until the definite'sfinal meaning is determined).
The argument list ofthe function consists of the variables y and z 3.
No-tice that the pronoun his is also represented as afunction of y and z.
Anything that  can affect thepronoun his picture will also affect the meaning ofthe definite noun phrase.Because a definite function is a composite rep-resentation for all possible meanings of a definitenoun phrase, we must restrict the function in cer-tain ways before a final interpretation for the sen-tence is available (or before deriving the meaning ofan elided sentence from a trigger verb phrase con-taining a definite function, as discussed in \[Har90\]).The initiM representation of a definite places an up-per and lower bound on the definite's behavior.
Thelower bound is a constant, while the upper boundis the initial representation.
These bounds must betightened to settle on a final interpretation for thedefinite.
We provide two methods to pinpoint a def-inite function.
If the definite is used anaphorically,we equate the definite function with some value con-sistent with its antecedent.
Otherwise, we apply aconstraint hat  limits the argument list of the func-tion to include only necessary variables.If a definite is used anaphorically, it can beequated with some value depending on its an-tecedent (just like pronoun functions in \[Har88\]).For example, if the antecedent of a definite nounphrase occurs in another sentence, we would equatethe definite function with a discourse entity.
An-tecedents for definite noun phrases can also occur3As in the representation of pronouns, we omit thevariable x from the argument list because the lambdaoperator for y abstracts x, so y is the more generalargument.within the same sentence.
An intrasentential refer-ence to an antecedent requires the definite functionto have an argument list compatible with the rep-resentation of the antecedent 4.
Consider the initialrepresentation of a sentence containing a potentiallyanaphoric definite shown in 9.Example  9Every man told his mother's psychiatrist aboutthe old lady's diary.Vx: (man x)x, A(y) (tellY((defl y) i(and (psychiatrist (defl y))(possess( (def2 y)(and (mother (def2 y))(possess(his3 y)(def2 y))))(defl y))))(about((def4 y) I(and (diary (def4 y))(possess((defs y) l(old-lady (def5 y)))(def4 y))))))Suppose the antecedent for his is every man andthe antecedent for the old lady is his mother.
Thenwe can augment he logical form, as shown in 10.664It is unusual for a definite to have an antecedentcorresponding to one of its arguments unless the vari-able corresponds to a quantified noun phrase which isnot embedded in a relative clause but is embedded inanother noun phrase.
When the antecedent is repre-sented as a function, its argument list must be a subsetof (or it must be possible to limit it to be a subset of)the arguments of the anaphoric definite for the equalityto be asserted.Example  10Every manj told (his) mother's)i psychiatristabout the old lady's~ diary.Vx: (man x)x, A(y)(tellY((dell y) I(and (psychiatrist (dell y))(possess((def2 y) I(and (mother (def2 y))(possess (hisa y)(def2 y))(or (= (hisa y) y)(= (his3 y) x))))(dell y))))(about((def4 y) \[(and (d ia ry  (def4 y))(possess((def5 y) I(old- lady (def5 y)))(def4 y))(= (def5 y) (def2 y))))))This example would be very difficult for an ap-proach that uses either definite descriptions or def-inite quantifiers.
Either approach would representthe old lady in a way equivalent o replacing therepresentation by a constant, because of uniqueness.Hence, any update of those representations to indi-cate the anaphora would violate formal consistency.Our approach, however, can easily handle the ex-ample.The other way to pinpoint a definite function ap-plies once antecedents for embedded pronouns areknown and once we know whether quantifiers cor-responding to embedded quantified noun phrases(not embedded in relative clauses attached to nounphrases) should distribute over the definite.
Con-sider the initial representation of the sentence in 8.The definite function defl is a function of all of thevariables that can potentially cause it to change.However, once we know the antecedent for its em-bedded pronoun, the argument list of the functionshould be limited.
To limit the argument list, wemake use of the insights gained from definite de-scriptions.
Because of the uniqueness assumption,any definite description that does not contain vari-ables bound by outside quantifiers acts like a con-stant.
On the other hand, if a pronoun embeddedin a definite description adopts the behavior of auniversally quantified variable, then the definite de-scription will change what it denotes depending onthe instantiation of that variable.
Hence, we con-clude that a definite function should only changeas a function of those variables bound by operatorsoutside of its restriction (ignoring its own argumentlist).67Once antecedent and embedded quantifier infor-mation is available, we can limit the argument list toprecisely those arguments that are bound by opera-tors outside of the restriction.
If a pronoun functionin the restriction of the definite function is equatedwith a variable bound outside its restriction or withanother function which must be a function of a cer-tain variable (based on its own restriction), thenthe argument must be retained.
Additionally, otherarguments that are free in the restriction must beretained (these correspond to embedded quantifiednoun phrases whose quantifiers are moved out ofthe restriction).
Once we know the necessary ar-guments, we replace the original function by a newfunction over those arguments.
By using this argu-ment reduction constraint, we limit the initial com-posite representation of a definite noun phrase to itsfinal meaning (given pronoun and quantifier infor-mation).Consider how we would limit the function(defl y z) from example 8 following pronoun res-olution.
If we decide that the antecedent of his isevery boy, then we would update the logical form,as shown in 11.Example  11Every man showed every boyi h is i  p ic ture .Vx: (man x)x, A(y)(show y((defl y z) \[(and (picture (dell y z))(possess (his2 y z)(defl y z))(= (his2 y z) z ) ) )\[Vz: (boy z) z\])By using our argument reduction constraint, we canreplace the function (defl y z) by a function of z(since (his2 y z) is replaced with the variable z), asshown in 12.Example  12Every man showed every boyl h is i  p ic ture .Vx: (man x)x, A(y)(and (showY((defl y z) \](and (picture (defl y z))(possess (his2 y z)(dell y z))(= (his2 y z) z)))\[Vz: (boy z) z\])(= (dell y z) (def3 z)))Equality here is equivalent o replacing the firstfunction with the second value.
Because of this factand because of the meaning of the vertical bar inthe restriction of the function, this representationcan be simplified as shown in 13.Example  13Every man showed every boyi hisi p icture.Vx: (man x)x, A(y)(and (show y(def3 z)\[Vz: (boy z) z\])(picture (def3 z))(possess z (def3 z)))To handle the readings where his is anaphoricallydependent on other noun phrases, our approachwould be similar.Our representation of pronouns has severalstrengths.
First, the representation provides usefulinformation to a semantic routine concerning possi-ble intrasentential ntecedents for the definite.
Ai'-gument lists limit what can be the antecedent alongwith other factors like number and gender agree-ment and antecedent limitations particular to deft-nites.
To demonstrate a strength of this approach,consider the initial representation of the followingsentence:Example  14Fred told the teacher who discusses everystudent with his mother to record her response.
((dell) \] (name (dell) Fred)),A(x) (tellx((def2 x) I(and (inst (def2 x) teacher)(de f2  x ) ,A (y) (discussY\[V(z) :( inst  z student) z\](with((def3 X y Z) I(and(inst(def3 x y z)?
mother)(possess\ [ (de f2  x ) ,A (w) ( recordw( (de f5  x w) \[(and ( inst  (defs x w)response)(possess(her6 x w)(defs x w))) ) ) \ ] )antecedent for her.
If the antecedent for his is everystudent, then his mother cannot be the antecedentfor her.
This accessibility problem results becausethe universal in the relative clause (i.e., every stu-dent) cannot have scope over her response, hence,his mother is not a good antecedent for her 5.
Noticethat (her6 x w) is not immediately compatible withthe representation for his mother (i.e., (def3 x y z)).Before we can assert that his mother is the an-tecedent for her we must pinpoint the meaning ofthat noun phrase, that is, we must determine theantecedent for his.
Then depending on our choice,the final meaning of his mother may or may not beaccessible to the pronoun.
Hence, we can explainwhy some definites in relative clauses are accessibleto pronouns in the matrix sentence and others arenot.
C-command oes not accurately predict whendefinites are accessible as antecedents for anaphoricexpressions.
This is not surprising, given the factthat the final meaning of a definite determines itsaccessibility, and determining this meaning may re-quire resolving pronouns and scoping ambiguities.In this paper, we have introduced a compositerepresentation for definite noun phrases with twoways to update their meaning as more informa-tion becomes available.
This approach is consistentwith the three compntational constraints discussedin section 2, and also provides a good model of deft-nite behavior.
We refer the reader to Harper \[Har90\]for discussion of a wider variety of examples.
Inparticular, we discuss examples of verb phrase el-lipsis, Bach-Peters entences, and definite donkeysentences \[Gea62\].
Our approach has been imple-mented and tested on a wide variety of examples.The logical form for pronouns and definites is pro-vided as soon as a parse tree for the sentence isavailable.
Then, the logical form for the sentenceis incrementally updated until all ambiguities havebeen resolved.
Logical form is very useful in thesearch for pronoun and definite antecedents.
Formore on the implementation see \[Harg0\].
(his4 x y z) One shortcoming of our approach is our inabil-(def3 x y z ) ) ) ) ) ) ) ) i ty  to provide a single logical form for a sentencewith structural ambiguity.
One possible solution tothis problem (which we are currently investigating)is to store partial logical forms in a parse forest.
Asmore information is processed this intermediate r p-resentation will be incrementally updated until theparse forest is reduced to a single tree containingHere the meaning of her response depends on theantecedent for her.
What then are legal antecedentsfor her in this sentence?
Certainly, the teacher is afine candidate, but what about his mother.
We can-not tell immediately whether his mother can be the5Strictly speaking, universal noun phrases cannotbind across sentences.
However, speakers ometimes al-low a universal to be the antecedent for a singular pro-noun outside of its scope.
Such pronouns are not usu-ally understood as giving a bound variable reading.
SeeWebber \[Web78\] for a discussion of this issue.
A simi-lar treatment can apply to definites which change as afunction of a universal.68one logical form.5 Past ApproachesOur work has benefited from the insights gainedfrom other approaches to definite noun phrases inthe literature.
We considered both definite de-scriptions introduced by Russell \[Rus05\] and defi-nite quantifiers (used by many including \[Web83\])for representing definite noun phrases.
Neitherrepresentation allows us to handle intrasententialanaphoric definites while obeying our computationalconstraints.
However, the in-place definite descrip-tion is excellent for modeling definite subjects inverb phrase ellipsis and for capturing the behaviorsof distributive definite noun phrases.
On the otherhand, a definite quantifier is not a good represen-tation for a definite subject in verb phrase ellipsis(the strict meaning of The cat wants its toy.
The dogdoes too cannot be provided because quantifiers donot have scope across sentences).
In fact, to makethe definite quantifier a feasible representation, wewould have to make the binding properties of a def-inite quantifier different han the binding proper-ties of a universal.
Hornstein \[Hor84\] suggests thatdefinite quantifiers have different binding propertiesthan universals.
His approach fails to consider howthe process of pinpointing the meaning of a defi-nite affects its ability to bind a pronoun.
For morediscussion of the strengths and weaknesses of theseapproaches, ee Harper \[Har90\].Other approaches to handling definites includethe work of \[Hei82; Kam81; Rob87; Kle87; PP88\].Each approach differs from ours both in scope andemphasis.
We build an intermediate meaning for asentence using only the constraints dictated by thesyntax and local semantics and incrementally up-date it as we process contextual information.
Thework of Pollack and Periera \[PP88\] also attempts togradually build up a final interpretation of a sen-tence using their semantic and pragmatic dischargeinterpretation rules.
However, our representationof a definite noun phrase locally stores informationabout those quantifiers in the sentence that can po-tentially quantify over it, while Pollack and Periera'srepresentation does not.
The approaches of \[Hei82;Kam81; Rob87; Kle87\] require a large amount ofcontextual information before the representation fa sentence can be given (leading to a violation ofour constraints).References\[Al187\] James Allen.
Natural Language Understand-ing.
The Benjamin/Cummings PublishingCompany, Menlo Park, CA, 1987.\[Gea62\] Peter T. Geach.
Reference and Generality.Cornell University Press, Ithaca, 1962.69\[Har88\]\[Har90\]\[Hei82\]\[Hin85\]\[Hor84\]\[Kam81\]\[Kle87\]\[PP88\]\[Rei83\]\[RobS7\]\[Ros67\]\[Rus05\]\[Rus71\]\[Sag76\]\[SP84\]\[Web78\]\[Web83\]Mary P. Harper.
Representing pronouns inlogical form : Computational constraints andlinguistic evidence.
In The Proceedings of the7th National Meeting of AAAI, 1988.Mary P. Harper.
The representation of nounphrases in logical form.
PhD thesis, BrownUniversity, 1990.Irene Heim.
The Semantics of Definite and In-definite Noun Phrases.
PhD thesis, Universityof Massachusetts, 1982.Jaakko Hintikka.
Anaphora and DefiniteDescriptions: Two applications of Game-Theoretical semantics.
D. Reidel PublishingOompany, Boston, 1985.Norbert Hornstein.
Logic as Grammar: AnApproach to Meaning in Natural Language.MIT Press, Cambridge, MA, 1984.Hans Kamp.
A theory of truth and semanticrepresentation.
In Jeroen Groenendijk, TheoJanssen, and Martin Stokhof, editors, FormedMethods in the Study of Language, volume 1.Mathematische Centrum, Amsterdam, 1981.Ewan Klein.
VP ellipsis in DR theory.
InJ.
Groenendijk, D. de Jongh, and M. Stokhof,editors, Studies in Discourse Representationand the Theory of Generalized Quantifiers.Foris, Dordrecht, 1987.Martha E. Pollack and Fernando C.N.
Pereira.An integrated framework for semantic andpragmatic interpretation.
In The Proceedingsof the 26th Annual Meeting of the Associationfor Computastional Linguistics, 1988.Tanya Reinhart.
Anaphora and Semantic In-terpretation.
Croom Helm, London, 1983.Craige Roberts.
Modal Subordination,Anaphora, and Distributivity.
PhD thesis,University of Massachusetts, 1987.John R. Ross.
Constraints on Variables inSyntax.
PhD thesis, MIT, 1967.Bertrand Russell.
On denoting.
Mind, 14:479-493, 1905.Bertrand Russell.
Reference.
In J. F. Rosen-berg and C. Travis, editors, Readings in thePhilosophy of Language.
Prentice-Hall, Inc.,Englewood Cliffs, New Jersey, 1971.Ivan A.
Sag.
Deletion and Logical Form.
PhDthesis, MIT, 1976.L.
K. Schubert and F. J. Pelletier.
From En-glish to Logic : Context-flee computation of'conventional' logical translations.
AmericanJournal of Computational Linguistics, 10:165-176, 1984.Bonnie L. Webber.
A Formal Approach to Dis-course Anaphora.
PhD thesis, Harvard, 1978.Bonnie L. Webber.
So what can we talk aboutnow?
In M. Brady and R. Berwick, edi-tors, Computational Models of Discourse.
MITPress, Cambridge MA, 1983.
