A S IMPL IF IED THEORY OF TENSE REPRESENTAT IONSAND CONSTRAINTS ON THEIR  COMPOSIT IONMichae l  R .
BrentMIT Artificial Intelligence Lab545 Technology SquareCambridge, MA 02139michael@ai.mit.eduABSTRACTThis paper proposes a set of representations fortenses and a set of constraints on how they can be com-bined in adjunct clauses.
The semantics we propose ex-plains the possible meanings of tenses in a variety of sen-tential contexts.
It also supports an elegant constrainton tense combination i  adjunct clauses.
These semanticrepresentations provide insights into the interpretationsof tenses, and the constraints provide a source of syntac-tic disambiguation that has not previously been demon-strated.
We demonstrate an implemented disambiguatorfor a certain class of three-clause sentences based on ourtheory.1 In t roduct ionThis paper proposes a set of representations for tensesand a set of constraints on how they can be combined.These representations provide insights into the interpre-tation of tenses, and the constraints provide a source ofsyntactic disambiguation that has not previously beendemonstrated.The sentences investigated in this paper containmultiple clauses connected by tempora l /causa l  con-nect ives,  words like once, by the time, when, and be-fore.
(1) shows that the tenses of multi-clause sentencesaffect their acceptability.
This raises several important*when }(1) a.
* Rachel won the game *once Jon*beforearriveshere answer these questions.
Specifically, they provideexplanations in terms of the meanings of the tenses.
Wepropose an explanatory theory and demonstrate an im-plementation which successfully disambiguates a class ofthree-clause sentences.The issues raised by (1) are significant for compu-tational inguistics on several accounts.
First, an under-standing of the constraints on tense combinations can beused to support syntactic disambiguation.
For example,consider the alternative parses shown textually in (2)and graphically in Figure -1.
The first parse in both(2) a. oKb.
*\[s Jon will learn \[s that he won s/ whenRachel arrivess\]Read as: When Rachel arrives, Jon willlearn that he wonJon will learn \[s that he won when Rachelarrives s/Read as: Jon will learn that, whenRachel arrives, he won(2) and Figure -1, where the adjunct clause starting withwhen is attached high, is fine; the second, where it is at-tached low, is unacceptable.
Figure -1 demonstrates ourparser discriminating between the acceptable and unac-ceptable parses of (2).
The details of the representationcannot be understood until later, but it can be seen thatdifferent compositions of the tenses in the two parsesresult in marking the top node of the second parse asbad.
The contrast between example (2) and example (3)shows that whether the preferred attachment depends onthe tenses of the clauses.
Examples (2) and (3) showb.
OK Rachel will win the gameJon arriveswhen }oncebeforequestions.
Which tense combinations are acceptable andwhich are not?
Why do they have the status they do?How can observations like (1) be used to leverage prob-lems like syntactic disambiguation and knowledge repre-sentation?
The representations and constraints proposed(3) a.
*b. OKthat there are\[s Jon will learn \[s that he had won s/bythe time Rachel arrived s/Read as: By the time Rachel arrived,Jon will learn that he had wonJon will learn \[s that he had won by thetime Rachel arrived s/Read as: Jon will learn that by lhe limeRachel arrived he had woninteresting interactions among tenses, and119(print-trees(porse-ond-ceeput e-tense-structures'(Jon ull l  learn that he ted ale uhen Rachel *s arrive)))I~S: E.R R_S POST, I S_R I. E FUTI I I E (e ) fE (e )S, R R, E PRES\[T v FUT TEUPORRL-CONN P~ uP: S_R U,E T.: \[ .
.
.
.
.  "
f f i '= l l= ' :  u., , .
,  ,,E,I'E.
l l S PUUTJ?ou,.ER-..
I s .
"STI I::: ,.R ,.E ''ESI ITS: S R R,E FUT TS: E,R l_S JTZRE:-FUTURE~ERF: -ITZflEZTURE, ~ '~ '="  ~ iSS: - -T'  'U'LEU-VERll I E.R R_S ITS: $,R R.E PRESSP .
'~E.R  R ITZHE: ,RESENT ~ERF: -?
J TE I fSE-U~ P _S POST lk'\] i '~ iTTnE: PUESENTi ~~o.,~ER-~, IT I Ts: E.u R S PnUTII ITXUE: ,OUT - I ?
r - i~  I --g?.R R_S POST iJ IO  Is violates: UCTR \] R.E OuR PRES~S_R R.~ FUTE.R I S POSTI I - I  s vlelotes: UCTRR.E S.R PRE:U_I R.E FU1 i: FUTUREFUIUREI T8= E.R R S POUT JI I I ' I  I I $ violates= OCTR It O,E S,n ,REU~~ S s  E.l l U PUSTI I I I '1  I I I " violates: SCIR II i u .
1 S.R,R,~~ I::: E.u i.s 'R-I i~;'~-':::~:* o, ,  I"" u., u.E ,RESII.o..~Eu-uE'.. , W~ ----------'~,.u= ..u R U ..T, I*% PUEUl | ITEnE: PUUT - I $,l R.E_L ~ERF:- IT E N S E - U ~I ~rT'D~,r~mic Lisp Listener I .
IFigure -1: The output of our parser on the sentence in (2).
The restrictions on tense combination disambiguate his sentence,shown by the asterisk with which our program marks the second parse as unacceptable.
Note that the restrictions on thecomplement clauses are different from those on a~ijunct clauses.
The former are not discussed in this paper, but see Hornstein(1990).120that a good theory of these interactions would be use-ful for syntactic disambiguation.
Such a theory, and animplementation of a disambiguator based on it, are thesubjects of this paper.In addition to its potential for syntactic disam-biguation, a theory of these temporal adjunction phe-nomena is may guide the construction of model-theoreticinterpretations of the temporal and causal relationsamong events.
Finally, people clearly have a lot of knowl-edge about the interaction among tenses.
By making thisknowledge xplicit, we are likely to open new, unfore-seen avenues to improving the performance of naturallanguage processing devices.1.1 ContextThe subjects of tense and temporal representationhave generated a great deal of interest in artificial intel-ligence, computational linguistics, linguistics, and phi-losophy.
Work in these areas addresses a variety of in-teresting questions which can be broadly divided intotwo types: questions about representing the temporalknowledge conveyed by natural anguage, and questionsabout representing role of tense in sentential grammar.The former questions have often been addressed by at-tempting to construct amodel-theoretic semantics of cer-tain temporally significant linguistic constructions.
Im-portant work in this area includes Dowty (1979), Allen(1984), Dowty (1986), Hinrichs (1986), Moens (1987),and Hinrichs (1988).
Much of the recent work in thisarea has used some version of Reichenbach's (1947) rep-resentation of tenses as a starting point)  The questionsabout the role of tense in sentential grammar, and inparticular about its effect on the acceptability of varioussentence types, has been addressed by a different set ofresearchers.
This work, which also uses Reichenbach asa starting point, is well represented by Hornstein (1990)and Comrie (1985), and the works cited therein.
In thispaper, we focus on how tenses affect the acceptability ofsentences, but we attempt o explain their effect in termsof their interpretations.
While we explain certain obser-vations about the acceptability of sentences in terms ofinterpretations, we do not attempt o develop a theoryof the temporal interpretation of natural anguage.
2Earlier attempts to explain the phenomena understudy here include Hornstein (1977), Hornstein (1981),Yip (1986), and Hornstein (1990).
In the current pa-per, we attempt o remove some semantic underdeter-mination and some theoretical redundancy that we have1Hinrichs, 1986; Harper and Gharniak, 1987; Hinrichs,1988; Moens and Steedman, 1988; Nakhimovsky, 1988; Pas-soneau, 1988; and Webber, 19882In particular, the important issue of tense as discourseanaphor is not addressed.
(See Hinrichs, 1986; Moens, 1987;Hinrichs, 1988; Nakhimovsky, 1988; and Webber, 1988.)
Fur-ther, we do not have a theory of the interaction of temporalinterpretation with aspect.
(See Dowty, 1979; Dowty, 1986;Moens, 1987; Moens and Steedman, 1988; Nakhimovsky,1988; and Passoneau, 1988.
)found in these works.
Section 5 provides a more de-tailed comparison with Yip (1986) and Hornstein (1990).Along with Hornstein and Yip, Harper and Charniak(1987) also propose a set of rules to account for the ac-ceptability of tense combinations in adjunct construc-tions.
However, their primary interest is in representingthe temporal knowledge that can be conveyed by natu-ral language.
As a result, they explicitly choose not touse their semantic system to construct an explanationfor their adjunction rules; rather they propose their ad-junction rules as syntactic descriptions.
By contrast, thecurrent paper focuses primarily on developing a semanticexplanation of tense compatibility.Although we do not offer specific variations on themodel-theoretic approach, we hope that our work willfurther it indirectly.
At a minimum, since many modeltheoretic approaches use Reichenbach's (1947) tense rep-resentations, our insights into those representations maybe significant.
Further, we hope that our constrainedrules for composing those individual tense structures willprovide a richer set of representations on which modeltheoretic approaches can be built.1.2 P rev iewThe remainder of this paper proceeds as follows.Section 2 introduces the representations for individualtenses.
Section 3 presents the method of composingtenses from different clauses, and a general constraintsthat applies to such composition.
3 Section 4 demon-strates the computer program implementing this theory.Section 5 steps back from the technical details to assessthe contributions of this paper and compare it to closelyrelated works.
Finally, Section 6 sums up the conclusionsdrawn throughout the paper.
42 The  Representat ion  o f  Ind iv idua lTensesIn order to construct a theory explaining whichtenses can be combined we need a representation f thetenses.
The representation used here is variant of thatused by Hornstein (1990), who bases it on Comrie (1985).It is a Neo-Reichenbachian representation (Reichenbach,1966) in that its s imple tense s t ructures  (STSs) re-late the following three entities: the time of the eventnamed by the verb, denoted by "E", the time of speech,denoted by "S", and a reference time, denoted by "R".The reference time R is used to locate an event with re-spect to another event in sentences like (lb) above.
(Amechanism for connecting tenses via the 1% point will be3Brent (1989) presents two additional constraints on tensecomposition.4While English alone has been studied in detail, prelimi-nary investigation supports the expectation that the theorywill extend to Romance and Germanic languages.
One ofthe most obvious difference between Romance and Germaniclanguages i addressed in Brent (1989).121X_Y Y_X X,Y Y,XTable 1: Notat ion  for  poss ib le  re lat ions  betweent ime po ints  X and  YTense Name Simple Tense Example  VPSt ructurepastpresentfuturepast perfectpresent perfectfuture perfectE,R R_SS,R R,ES-R R,EE_R R-SE_R S,RE_R S_RJon  WOnJon wins,is winningJon will winJon had wonJon has wonJon will have wonTable 2: The  six STSs express ib le  in Engl ish ver-bal morpho logydetailed in Section 3.)
Each STS consists of a relationbetween S mad R and one between R and E; S and E arenot directly related.
For any directly related time pointsX and Y, at most one of four possible relations holds be-tween them.
These are written as in Table 1.
Althoughwe use the same notation as Hornstein (1990), we view itas merely notation for fundamentally semantic relations,whereas he appears to view the syntax as primary.For the purposes of constraining tense combinationthere appear to be six basic tenses 5 (Table 2).
We assignSTS representations to tenses as shown in Table 2.
Oneof the main contributions of this paper over previousattempts will be its ability to completely determine theassignments of Table 2 in terms of the semantics of therepresentations and the meanings of actual tenses.The assignment of STSs to tenses hown in Table 2can be derived from the possible interpretations of vari-ous tenses.
Before arguing that Table 2 can be derived,we note that it is at least consistent with the interpre-tations of the tenses.
Suppose that underscore is inter-preted as temporal precedence and comma as simultane-ity (As in Hornstein, 1990.
Under this interpretation thevarious tense structures correspond to the evident mean-ings of the tenses.
For example, the STS of the past tenseis "E,R R.S."
That is, the event referred to by the clauseis simultaneous'with some reference point R, which pre-cedes the time of speech (E  = R < S).
It follows thatthe event precedes the time of speech, which correspondsto the evident meaning of the past tense.
On the otherhand, the proposed semantics for comma and underscorecannot completely determine the assignments shown inTable 2, because Table 2 distinguishes X,Y and Y,X,5The constraints on tense combination appear to be en-tirely independent of whether or not the tensed verb bearsprogressive morphology.but the semantics does not assign them distinct mean-ings.
That situation is remedied by introducing a newand slightly more complex interpretation for comma, asdescribed in (4).
(4) In terpretat ion  of  "X ,Y ' :a. Y does not precede X.b.
X is simultaneous with Y, in the absence ofevidence that X precedes Y.
(Such evidencecan come from other tenses, adverbs, or con-nectives, as described below.)c.
X precedes Y, in the presence of supportingevidence from other tenses, adverbs, or con-nectives.The reinterpretation f comma as precedence due to thepresence of an adverb is illustrated in (5).
Although(5) i{  leave } { OK tomorrow }am leaving for LA * yesterdayleave is in the present ense, it is interpreted as a futurebecause of the adverb tomorrow.
The fact that adjec-tives can cause the present ense to be reinterpreted asa future but not as a past indicates that its STS mustbe S,R R,E, not any of the permutations like S,R E,R.If the present had S,R E,R as its STS then E,R couldbe reinterpreted such that E < R = S, a past.
Similararguments can be made for the other STSs in Table 2.Further, evidence that both tenses from other clausesand temporal/causal connectives can cause comma tobe reinterpreted as precedence will be presented below.Note that (4) does not mean that "X,Y" is inter-preted as "X is prior to or simultaneous with Y".
Rather,a particular occurrence of "X,Y" Mways has exactly oneof the following two interpretations: 1) X is simultane-ous with Y; 2) X is prior to Y.
"X,Y" is never ambiguousbetween the two.
63 Causa l /Tempora l  Ad junct  C lausesIn this section we introduce a composition opera-tion on STSs, and a major constraint on composition.It is important o keep in mind that we are discussingonly causal/temporal djunct clauses.
In particular, weare not  considering complement clauses, as in "Rachelknows that  Jon played the fool yesterday.
"3.1 Tense Compos i t ion  and  Semant icCons is tencyWhen one clause is adjoined to another by a tem-poral/causal connective like once, by the lime, when, orbefore the acceptability of the resulting sentence dependsin part on the tenses of the two clauses.
This is demon-strated by (1).
In fact, of the 36 possible ordered pairs~This is different from Yip (1986), where comma is cru-cially interpreted as ambiguous between the two readings.122of tenses only nine are acceptable when put in adjunctconstructions like (1).
(The nine acceptable tense pairsare listed in Table 3.)
20 of the 27 unacceptable ones,but none of the nine acceptable ones, have the followingcharacter: their adjunct-clause SR relation is inconsis-tent with their matrix-clause SR relation, and cannotbe reinterpreted according to (4) in a way that makes itconsistent.
This can be understood in terms of the merg-ing of the adjunct Sit relation with that of the matrix,yielding a combined tense  s t ruc ture  (CTS) that hasonly the matrix SR relation.
Besides explaining the ac-ceptability status of many CTSs, the idea of merging theadjunct SR relation into that of the matrix makes sensein terms of the representational schema.
In particular,the idea that the adjunct's R point should be identi f iedwith that of the matrix through causal/temporal adjunc-tion is consistent with the representational schema whichuses R as a reference point for relating one event to an-other.
Furthermore, since "S" is a deictic point repre-senting the time of speech (more accurately, the timeof proposition), and since both clauses represent propo-sitions made in the same context, it makes sense thatthey should have the same S point.
Once the S and Rpoints of the adjunct clause have been identified withthat of the matrix clause, it makes sense that sentenceswhere the matrix asserts one order for the shared S andR points while the adjunct asserts another order wouldbe irregular.Before attempting to formalize these intuitively ap-pealing ideas, let us consider an example.
The notationfor CTSs is as follows: the STS of the matrix clause iswritten above that of the adjunct clause and, if possible,the identified S and R points are aligned and connectedby vertical bars, as shown in (6).
7(6) S_R R,E FVrURE (WIN)i f lS,R R,E PRESENT (ARRIVE)(6) is the CTS  for sentence (lb).
Although the SR re-lation for the present tense adjunct is not identical tothat of the future tense matrix clause, the adjunct canbe reconciled with that of the matrix clause if the S,R isinterpreted as precedence, S < R. Notice that sentence(lb) is, in fact, interpreted such that the arriving oc-curs in the future, even though the verb is in the presenttense.
Because of the two possible interpretations of thecomma relation proposed in (4), a single representationaccounts for the possibility of interpreting the present asa future.
Further, by making the (still informal) restric-tion on tense composition a semantic one, we use thesame mechanism to account for tense compatibility.Now consider an unacceptable example.
(la) has7all tense structures shown in typewriter face are actualoutput from our program.
When they are reported as thetense structure for a particular sentence, then the programgenerated them in response to that sentence.
For more onthe implementation, see Section 4.the CTS shown in (7).
Note how the matrix clause as-(7) E,R R_S PAST (WIN)\[ it* violates: ACIRR,E S,R PRESENT (ARRIVE)serts that the (shared) R point precedes the (shared) Spoint, while the adjunct clause asserts that the R pointis simultaneous with the S point.
The adjunct clausecould be reinterpreted according to (4) such that the Rpoint follows the S point, but this would not help - -  theassertions on the two levels would still be inconsistent.In general, if the SR relation on the matrix and adjuncttiers of the CTS do not have the same left-to-right orderthen their meanings cannot be reconciled, sWe have proposed that the adjunct SR relationmust be consistent with the matrix SR relation, arguedthat this constraint is intuitively appealing and conso-nant with the representational system as a whole, andshown an example.
Despite the intuitive appeal, thereare two hypotheses here that should be made explicit:first, that the SR relation of the adjunct clause is mergedwith that of the matrix when temporal/causal adjunctsare interpreted; and second, that CTSs containing con-tradictory assertions as a result of that merger are ex-perienced as unacceptable, not merely implausible.
Wecodify those two hypotheses as follows:Ad junct  Clause In fo rmat ion  Restr ic t ion  (ACIR) :"Adjunct clauses that introduce new SR information i tothe CTS are unacceptable.
"3.2 In terpretat ion  o f  CTSsThe interpretation of comma offered in (4), in combi-nation with the ACIR, explained the incompatibility of20 tense combinations in causal/temporal djunct con-structions.
Thus the new interpretation has importantconsequences for the SR portion of the CTS, the por-tion referred to by the ACIR.
We now explore its conse-quences for the RE portion of the CTS.According to the ACIR a CTS contains only a sin-gle SR relation, that provided by the matrix clause.Since both the matrix event (E, nat) and the adjunctevent (Ea4i) bear temporal relations to their shared Rpoint, it follows that they may be comparable.
Forexample, the structure shown in (8b) is interpreted asEmat < R = Earl1, by default.
(Our program printsout the default Emat - Eadj comparison for valid CTSs,but they have been suppressed up to now.
In addition,Table 3 lists all tense combinations that yield acceptableCTSs according to the Emat - Earl1 ordering of theirSThis is shown in greater detail in Brent (1989).
Also, notethat Hornstein (1990) takes this condition on the form of theCTSs as primary instead of reducing it to their meanings.For discussion of the differences, ee Section 5.123(8) a.b.Jon had won the game when Rachel arrived(E_R R_S PAST-PERFECT\[ \[ J E(m)<E(a)E,R R_S PAST)inatrixadjunctmatrixadjunctmatrixadjunctE,~,~ < Ea@past perf.pastpresent perf.presentfuture perf.presentEad i < Ematpastpast perf.presentpresent perf.futurepresent perf.Ea~j = E ,~pastpastpresentpresentfuturepresentTable 3: Legal  tense  combinat ions ,  a r ranged byapparent  E~dj - Emat deduct iondefault interpretation.)
Sentence (8a) does indeed im-ply that the matrix event (Jon's winning) occurred be-fore the adjunct event (Rachel's arriving).
If the commain "E,~,t,R" could be reinterpreted as temporal prece-dence then, instead of Emat < R = Eadj, we would haveEmat < R and E~dj < R; Era,, and E~dj would be in-comparable.
Brent (1989) proposed a constraint rulingout CTSs that do not yield an Em,t  - Eadj comparison.The reason for that proposal was the unacceptability 9 ofsentences like (9).
Now consider the following reformu-(9) a.b.$on had won the game when Rachel had ar-rived(E_R R_S PAST-PERFECTI I I* violates: interpretationE_R R_S PAST-PERFECT)lation of that constraint:In terpretat ion  Const ra in t :  "An acceptable interpre-tation of a CTS must yield an E,,a, - Eadj comparison.
"This reformulation allows the same constraint both tonarrow the possible interpretations of constructions like(8) and to explain the problematic status of construc-tions like (9).
Reexamining (8), Ea~, R cannot be rein-terpreted because to do so would violate the Interpreta-tion Constraint; Emat-R cannot be reinterpreted becauseunderscore has only the precedence interpretation.
Thus(8) has only a single interpretation.Now consider CTSs with E,~a,, R and E~dj, R, andin (10c).
Their default interpretation will be E, nat=R = Eaaj.
But by picking appropriate temporal/causal9For present purposes it does not matter whether sen-tences like (9) are regarded as strictly ungrammatical ormerely reliably infelicitous.connectives or pragmatic contexts we can force eithercomma to be reinterpreted, yielding Eadj < R = E,,~, asin (10a), E ,~t  < R = Eadj as in (10b)) ?
Of course, the(10) a.  OK Jon quit his job after Rachel left himb.
OK Rachel left Jon before he quit his jobc.
(E, R R_S PAST\[ \[ \[ E(m)=E(a)E,R R_S PAST)Interpretation Constraint prevents both commas frombeing simultaneously reinterpreted.We have shown that the interpretation of commaoffered in (4) provides a flexibility in the interpretationof CTSs that is required data such as (10).
Further,it restricts the interpretation of constructions like (8),where one of the clauses is in a perfect ense.
Althoughwe cannot fully explore the interpretive range of suchperfect constructions here, the restriction on them hasintuitive appeal.4 The  Computer  Mode lThis section describes our implementation f the theorydescribed above.
The implementation serves two pur-poses.
First, we use it as a tool to verify the behaviorof the theory and explore the effects of variations in it.Second, the implementation demonstrates the use of ourtense theory in syntactic disambiguation.Our program operates on parse trees, building com-plex tense structures out of simple ones and determiningwhether or not those CTSs are acceptable, according tothe constraints on tense combination.
This program waslinked to a simple feature-grammar parser, allowing itto take sentences as input, n In addition to buildingthe CTS for a sentence, the program lists the apparentEmat - Ea4/ relation for the CTSs it accepts, and theconstraints violated by the CTSs it rejects.
Its behav-ior on several of the examples from Section 1 is shownbelow.Examples (la) and (lb) show the effects of the Ad-junct Clause Information Restriction on the acceptabil-ity of sentences.
;;; (la) * Rachel won the game when Jon arrives(compute-tense-structures(parse'(Rachel +ed win the game when Jon +s arrive)))1?See also Moens and Stccdman, 1988 regarding whenclauses.11 Because morphology is quite distant from our interest intense, the parser has no morphological component.
Instead,input sentences have their tense morphemes, uch as +ed,separated and preposed.
A morphological parser could easilyreturn the components in this order.
-t-ed represents he past-tense morpheme, +s the present-tense morpheme, and 4-enthe past participle morpheme.124(E,R R_S PAST (WIN)I 11* violates: ACIRR,E S,R PRESENT (ARRIVE));;;  (lb) ok Rachel s i l l  s in  the game ehen Jon arr ives(compute-tense-structures(parse'(Rachel sill win the game shen Jon +s arrive)))(S_R R,E FUTURE (WIN)J I I E(m)-E(a)S,R R,E PRESENT (ARRIVE))Examples (2) and (3) show how a sentence with twopossible adjunction sites for the adjunct clause can pro-duce two CTSs.
The unacceptability of the CTSs re-sulting from one of the adjunction sites disambiguatesthe sentences.
In sentence (2) it is high attachment, othe matrix clause, that is acceptable; in sentence (3),low attachment to the complement clause.
Figure -1,page 2, shows the two possible parses of (2) output byour program.
One of them is automatically abeled un-grammatical with an asterisk on its CTS.
Note that thecomposition of tenses from subcategorized complementclauses, as opposed to adjunct clauses are not investi-gated here, but rather adopted from Hornstein (1990).5 D iscuss ionIn this section we compare the preceding solutions to thetemporal/causal djunction problem with those offeredin Yip (1986) and Hornstein (1990).5.1 Semant ics  of  S imple Tense  St ructuresTwo other works, Yip (1986) and Hornstein (1990),have developed theories of the effect of tense on theacceptability of temporal/causal djunct constructions.Both of these are at least partially rooted in the mean-ings of the tenses, and both use representations for sim-ple tense structures that are similar to the ones usedhere.
However, they both have difficulty in justifyingthe assignment of STSs to tenses.Yip assumes that comma is ambiguous between <and =.
Notice that this is different from the defaultinterpretation suggested here, whereby a given commain a given tense structure has exactly one interpreta-tion at any one time.
Yip's assumptions are critical forthe explanatory power of his argument, which won't gothrough using a default interpretation.
According toYip's interpretation, "Jon is running" and "Jon runs"ought to be ambiguous between the present and the fu-ture, but they clearly are not.
Both describe vents orsets of events that necessarily must include the time ofspeech.
This problem is exacerbated by Yip's proposalthat the present ense be assigned two STSs, one equiva-lent to "S,R R,E", the one used here, and the other "E,RR,S".
This proposal, along with the ambiguous interpre-tation of comma, would predict that the present ensecould be interpreted as meaning the same thing as nearlyany other tense.
For example, the present could be inter-preted as equivalent to the past perfect, if both commasin its "E,R R,S" STS received the reading E < R < S.Hornstein (1990) uses the simultaneity interpreta-tion of comma exclusively in assigning STSs to tenses.Thus there is no semantic reason, in Hornstein's model,why the present tense should have "S,R R,E" rather than"S,R E,R".
Furthermore, reinterpretation f comma isnot invoked to explain the fact that the present enseis reinterpreted as referring to the future when it is ad-joined to a future clause or modified by a future adverb.Instead, a syntactic rewrite rule that changes X,Y toX_Y under these conditions is used.
However, in theabsence of semantic onstraint, it is not clear why thatrule is better than one that switches order too, rewrit-ing Y,X to X.Y.
This alternative rewrite rule would beconsistent with the observations if every X,Y in everySTS were switched to Y,X.
Since X,Y and Y,X are in-terpreted in the same way in Hornstein's theory, thereis no reason not to make these two changes.
That is tosay, Hornstein's theory does not explain why the STSsand the rewrite rule are the way they are, rather thansome other way.Yip could not correctly derive his STS/tense map-ping from the meanings of the tenses because he allowedeach STS to have too many different meanings in thesimple, unmodified situations.
Even so, these meaningswere too narrow for his constraint on adjunction, so hewas forced to propose that the present has two STSs.This only made the underdetermination f the mean-ings of simple sentences worse.
Hornstein, on the otherhand, did not allow enough variation in the meaningsof the simple tense structures.
As a result, many of hispossible STSs had equivalent meanings, and there wasno way to prefer one over the other.
This was exacer-bated by the fact that he used non-semantic constraintson adjunction, reducing the amount of constraint hatthe acceptability data on adjunctions could provide forthe assignment of STSs to tenses.
This paper takes anintermediate position.
Comma is interpreted as simul-taneity in the unmodified case, but can be interpreted asprecedence in appropriate nvironments.
Since the con-straints on adjunction are semantically based, the inter-pretations of adjunct constructions provide evidence forthe assignments of STSs to tenses that we use.5.2 Semant ics  of  Combined  Tense St ructuresIn addition to allowing semantics to uniquely de-termine the assignment of STSs to tenses, our default-based interpretation of comma explains a problem ac-knowledged in Hornstein (1990).
If comma is inter-preted as strict simultaneity, as Hornstein initially pro-poses, then the structure in (10c) must be interpretedas Emat = R = Eadj.
However, as noted above, neithersentence (10a) nor sentence (lOb) has this interpretation.Hornstein alludes to a different form of reinterpretation125of ER to account for examples like (10).
However, hismechanism for the interpretation of Ernat - Eadj order-ing in CTSs is unrelated to his semantics for STSs or hisconstraints on their combination.
Our explanation, bycontrast, uses the same mechanism, the default-based se-mantics of comma, in every portion of the theory.
Rein-terpretation ofcomma in the SR relation accounts for thecompatibility of the present ense with future adverbsand future matrix clauses.
Reinterpretation of commain ER relations accounts for the flexible interpretationof sentences like those in (10).6 ConclusionsThis paper describes two contributions to the the-ory of temporal/causal djunction beyond those of Yip(1986), Brent (1989), and Hornstein (1990).
First, wepropose the asymmetric, default-based interpretation ofcomma described in (4).
This leads to a uniform, seman-tically based theory explaining the assignments of STSsto tenses hown in Table 2, the incompatibility of manytense pairs in causal/temporal djunction, and the in-terpretations of combined tense structures in a varietyof situations.
In particular, the default based interpre-tation of comma has benefits both in the interpretationof SR relations (adverbs and clausal adjuncts) and ERrelations (event order in CTSs).
Few of the theoreticalobservations or hypotheses presented in this paper con-stitute radical departures from previous assaults on thesame problem.
Rather, this paper has worked out incon-sistencies and redundancies in earlier attempts.
Besidestheoretical work, we presented a computer implementa-tion and showed that it can be used to do structuraldisambiguation f a certain class of sentences.
Althoughour contribution to syntactic disambiguation ly solvesa small part of that huge problem, we expect that aseries of constrained syntactic/semantic heories of thekind proposed hear will yield significant progress.Finally, the adjustments we have suggested to theinterpretation of comma in both simple tense structuresand combined tense structures hould contribute to thework of the many researchers using Reichenbachian rep-resentations.
In particular, constrained combination oftense structures ought to provide a richer set of represen-tations on which to expand model-theoretic approachesto interpretation.AcknowledgmentsThanks to Bob Berwick and Norbert Hornstein for theirdetailed readings and invaluable comments on many ver-sions of this work.References\[Allen, 1984\] J. Allen.
Towards a General Theory of Ac-tion and Time.
AI Journal, 23(2), 1984.\[Brent, 1989\] M. Brent.
Temporal/Causal Connectives:Syntax and Lexicon.
In Proceedings of the 11th AnnualConference of the Cognitive Science Society.
CognitiveScience Society, 1989.\[Comrie, 1985\] B. Comrie.
Tense.
Cambridge Textbooksin Linguistics.
Cambridge U.
Press, New York, NY,1985.\[Dowty, 1979\] D. Dowty.
Word Meaning and MontagueGrammar.
Synthese Language Library.
D. Reidel,Boston, 1979.\[Dowty, 1986\] D. Dowty.
The effects of aspectual classon the temporal structure of discourse: Semantics orpragmatics?
Linguistics and Philosophy, 9:37-61,1986.\[Harper and Charniak, 1987\] M. Harper and E. Char-niak.
Time and tense in english.
In ?
?th AnnualProceedings of the Association for Comp.
Ling., pages3-9.
Association for Comp.
Ling., 1987.\[tIinrichs, 1986\] E. Hinrichs.
Temporal anaphora in dis-courses of english.
Linguistics and Philosophy, 9:63-82, 1986.\[Hinrichs, 1988\] E. Hinrichs.
Tense, quantifiers, and con-text.
Comp.
Ling., 9(2), 1988.\[Hornstein, 1977\] N. Hornstein.
Towards a theory oftense.
Linguistic Inquiry, 8:521-557, 1977.\[Hornstein, 1981\] N. Hornstein.
The Study of Meanin 9in Natural Language.
Longman, New York, 1981.\[I-Iornstein, 1990\] N. Hornstein.
As Time Goes By:Tense and Universal Grammar.
MIT Press, Cam-bridge, MA, 1990.\[Moens and Steedman, 1988\] M. Moens and M. Steed-man.
Temporal Ontology and Temporal Reference.Comp.
Ling., 14(2), 1988.\[Moens, 1987\] M. Moens.
Tense, Aspect, and Tempo-ral Reference.
PhD thesis, University of Edinburgh,Centre for Cognitive Science, 1987.\[Nakhimovsky, 1988\] A. Nakhimovsky.
Aspect, aspec-tual class, and the temporal structure of narrative.Comp.
Ling., 14(2), 1988.\[Passoneau, 1988\] R. Passoneau.
A computationalmodel of the semantics of tense and aspect.
Comp.Ling., 14(2), 1988.\[Reichenbach, 1966\] H. Reichenbach.
The Elements ofSymbolic Logic.
The Free Press, New York, 1966.\[Webber, 1988\] B. Webber.
Tense as a discourseanaphor.
Comp.
Ling., 14(2), 1988.\[Yip, 1986\] K. Yip.
Tense, aspect, and the cognitive rep-resentation of time.
In Proceedings of the A CL.
Asso-ciation for Comp.
Ling., 1986.126
