PROSODY, SYNTAX AND PARSINGJohn BearandPatti PriceSRI International333 Ravenswood AvenueMenlo Park, California 94025Abst rac tWe describe the modification of a grammar to takeadvantage of prosodic information provided by aspeech recognition system.
This initial study is lim-ited to the use of relative duration of phonetic seg-ments in the assignment ofsyntactic structure, specif-ically in ruling out alternative parses in otherwiseambiguous sentences.
Taking advantage of prosodicinformation in parsing can make a spoken languagesystem more accurate and more efficient, if prosodic-syntactic mismatches, or unlikely matches, can bepruned.
We know of no other work that has suc-ceeded in automatically extracting speech informa-tion and using it in a parser to rule out extraneousparses.1 In t roduct ionProsodic information can mark lexical stress, iden-tify phrasing breaks, and provide information usefulfor semantic interpretation.
Each of these aspects ofprosody can benefit a spoken language system (SLS).In this paper we describe the modification of a gram-mar to take advantage of prosodic information pro-vided by a speech component.
Though prosody in-cludes a variety of acoustic phenomena used for avariety of linguistic effects, we limit this initial studyto the use of relative duration of phonetic segments inthe assignment of syntactic structure, specifically inruling out alternative parses in otherwise ambiguoussentences.It is rare that prosody alone disambiguates oth-erwise identical phrases.
However, it is also rarethat any one source of information is the sole featurethat separates one phrase from all competitors.
Tak-ing advantage ofprosodic information i parsing canmake a spoken language system more accurate andmore efficient, if prosodic-syntactic mismatches, orunlikely matches, can be pruned out.
Prosodic struc-ture and syntactic structures are not, of course, com-pletely identical.
Rhythmic structures and the neces-sity of breathing influence the prosodic structure, butnot the syntactic structure (Gee and Grosjean 1983,Cooper and Paccia-Cooper 1980 ).
Further, there areaspects of syntactic structure that are not typicallymarked prosodically.
Our goal is to show that at leastsome prosodic information can be automatically ex-tracted and used to improve syntactic analysis.
Otherstudies have pointed to possibilities for deriving syn-tax from prosody (see e.g., Gee and Grosjean 1983,Briscoe and Boguraev 1984, and Komatsu, Oohira,and Ichikawa 1989) but none to our knowledge havecommunicated speech information directly to a parserin a spoken language system.2 CorpusFor our corpus of sentences we selected a subset ofa corpus developed previously (see Price et aL 1989)for investigating the perceptual role of prosodic infor-mation in disambiguating sentences.
A set of 35 pho-netically ambiguous sentence pairs of differing syntac-tic structure was recorded by professional FM radionews announcers.
By phonetically ambiguous sen-tences, we mean sentences that consist of the samestring of phones, i.e., that suprasegmental rather thansegmental information is the basis for the distinctionbetween members of the pairs.
Members of the pairswere read in disambiguating contexts on days sepa-rated by a period of several weeks to avoid exagger-ation of the contrast.
In the earlier study listenersviewed the two contexts while hearing one memberof the pair, and were asked to select the appropriatecontext for the sentence.
The results showed that lis-teners can, in general, reliably separate phoneticallyand syntactically ambiguous sentences on the basisof prosody.
The original study investigated seventypes of structural ambiguity.
The present studyused a subset of the sentence pairs which contained17prepositional phrase attachment ambiguities, or par-ticle/preposition ambiguities (see Appendix).If naive listeners can reliably separate phoneticallyand structurally ambiguous pairs, what is the basisfor this separation?
In related work on the perceptionof prosodic information, trained phoneticians labeledthe same sentences with an integer between zero andfive inclusive between every two words.
These num-bers, 'prosodic break indices,' encode the degree ofprosodic decoupling of neighboring words, the largerthe number, the more of a gap or break between thewords.
We found that we could label such break in-dices with good agreement within and across labelers.In addition, we found that these indices quite oftendisambiguated the sentence pairs, as illustrated be-low.
* Marge 0 would 1 never 2 deal 0 in 2 any 0 guys?
Marge 1 would 0 never 0 deal 3 in 0 any 0 guiseThe break indices between 'deal' and 'in' providea clear indication in this case whether the verb is'deal-in' or just 'deal.'
The larger of the two indices,3, indicates that in that sentence, 'in' is not tightlycoupled with 'deal' and hence is not likely to be aparticle.So far we had established that naive listeners andtrained listeners appear to be able to separate suchambiguous entence pairs on the basis of prosodic in-formation.
If we could extract such information au-tomatically perhaps we could make it available to aparser.
We found a clue in an effort to assess thephonetic ambiguity of the sentence pairs.
We usedSRI's DECIPHER speech recognition system, con-strained to recognize the correct string of words, toautomatically abel and time-align the sentences usedin the earlier referenced study.
The DECIPHER sys-tem is particularly well suited to this task becauseit can model and use very bushy pronunciation et-works, accounting for much more detail in pronun-ciation than other systems.
This extra detail makesit better able to time-align the sentences and is astricter test of phonetic ambiguity.
We used the DE-CIPHER system (Weintraub et al 1989) to labeland time-align the speech, and verified that the sen-tences were, by this measure as well as by the ear-lier perceptual verification, truly ambiguous phonet-ically.
This meant that the information separatingthe member of the pairs was not in the segmentalinformation, but in the suprasegmental information:duration, pitch and pausing.
As a byproduct of thelabeling and time alignment, we noticed that the du-rations of the phones could be used to separate mem-bers of the pairs.
This was easy to see in phoneticallyambiguous entence pairs: normally the structure ofduration patterns is obscured by intrinsic durationof phones and the contextual effects of neighboringphones.
In the phonetically ambiguous pairs, therewas no need to account for these effects in order tosee the striking pattern in duration differences.
If ahuman looking at the duration patterns could reliablyseparate the members of the pairs, there was hope forcreating an algorithm to perform the task automat-ically.
This task could not take advantage of suchpairs, but would have to face the problem of intrinsicphone duration.Word break indices were generated automaticallyby normalizing phone duration according to esti-mated mean and variance, and combining the averagenormalized uration factors of the final syllable codaconsonants with a pause factor.
Let di = (d i -  ~j)/o'jbe the normalized uration of the ith phoneme in thecoda, where pj and ~rj are the mean and standarddeviation of duration for phone j. dp is the duration(in ms) of the pause following the word, if any.
A setof word break indices are computed for all the wordsin a sentence as follows:1 n = + d,,/70The term dp/70 was actually hard-limited at 4, soas not to give pauses too much weight.
The set .Aincludes all coda consonants, but not the vowel nu-cleus unless the syllable ends in a vowel.
Althoughthe vowel nucleus provides ome boundary cues, thelengthening associated with prominence can be con-founded with boundary lengthening and the algo-rithm was slightly more reliable without using vowelnucleus information.
These indices n are normalizedover the sentence, assuming known sentence bound-aries, to range from zero to five (the scale used forthe initial perceptual labeling).
The correlation co-efficient between the hand-labeled break indices andthe automatically generated break indices was verygood: 0.85.3 Incorporat ing  Prosody  In toA GrammarThus far, we have shown that naive and trained lis-teners can rely on suprasegmental information to sep-arate ambiguous entences, and we have shown thatwe can automatically extract information that corre-lates well with the perceptual labels.
It remains to beshown how such information can be used by a parser.In order to do so we modified an already existing,and in fact reasonably large grammar.
The parser we18use is the Core Language Engine developed at SRI inCambridge (Alshawi et al 1988).Much of the modification of the grammar is doneautomatically.
The first thing is to systematicallychange all the rules of the form A --* B C to be ofthe form A --.
B Link C, where Link is a new gram-matical category, that of the prosodic break indices.Similarly all rules with more than two right hand sideelements need to have link nodes interleaved at ev-ery juncture: e.g., a rule A --* B C D is changed intoA --~ B Link1 C Link2 D.Next, allowance must be made for empty nodes.
Itis common practice to have rules of the form NP --*and PP ~ ~ in order to handle wh-movement andrelative clauses.
These rules necessitate the incorpo-ration into the modified grammar of a rule Link --* e.Otherwise, a sentence such as a wh-question will notparse because an empty node introduced by the gram-mar will either not be preceded by a link, or not befollowed by one.The introduction of empty links needs to be con-strained so as not to introduce spurious parses.
If  theonly place the empty NP or PP etc.
could fit into thesentence is at the end, then the only place the emptyLink can go is right before it so there is no extra am-biguity introduced.
However if an empty wh-phrasecould be posited at a place somewhere other than theend of the sentence, then there is ambiguity as towhether it is preceded or followed by the empty link.For instance, for the sentence, "What did you see_ on Saturday?"
the parser would find both of thefollowing possibilities:?
What L did L you L see L empty-NP empty-Lon L Saturday??
What L did L you L see empty-L empty-NP Lon L Saturday?Hence the grammar must be made to automaticallyrule out half of these possibilities.
This can bedone by constraining every empty link to be fol-lowed immediately by an empty wh-phrase, or aconstituent containing an empty wh-phrase on itsleft branch.
It is fairly straightforward to incorpo-rate this into the routine that automatically modi-fies the grammar.
The rule that introduces emptylinks gives them a feature-value pair: empty_link=y.The rules that introduce other empty constituents aremodified to add to the constituent the feature-valuepair: trace_on_left_branch--y.
The links zero throughfive are given the feature-value pair empty_link--n.The default value for trace_on_left_branch is set ton so that all words in the lexicon have that value.Rules of the form Ao -~ A1 Link1 .
.
.An  are modi-fied to insure that A0 and A1 have the same valuesenti.d.lalb2a2b3a3b4a4b5a5b6a6b7a7bTOT.# parsesnoprosody# parseswithprosodyparsetimenoprosodyparsetimewithprosody10 4 5.3 5.310 10 5.3 7.73.63.610102222222222602.32.33.23.27104.34.02.73.74.75.51 1.7 2.52 1.6 2.91 2.5 2.82 2.5 4.11 0.8 1.32 0.8 1.546 38.7 53.0Table 1: Theseconds) withmation.number of parses and parse times (inand without the use of prosodic infor-for the feature trace_on_left_branch.
Additionally,if Linki has empty_link---y then Ai+x must havetrace_on_left_branch--y.
These modifications, incor-porated into the grammar-modifying routine, sufficeto eliminate the spurious ambiguity.4 Setting Grammar Parame-tersRunning the grammar through our procedure, tomake the changes mentioned above, results in a gram-mar that gets the same number of parses for a sen-tence with links as the old grammar would have pro-duced for the corresponding sentence without links.In order to make use of the prosodic informationwe still need to make an additional important changeto the grammar: how does the grammar use this in-formation?
This area is a vast area of research.
Thepresent study shows the feasibility of one particularapproach.
In this initial endeavor, we made the mostconservative changes imaginable after examining thebreak indices on a set of sentences.
We changed therule N --~ N Link PP so that the value of the linkmust be between 0 and 2 inclusive (on a scale of 0-5)for the rule to apply.
We made essentially the samechange to the rule for the construction verb plus par-ticle, VP --* V Link PP, except that the value of thelink must, in this case, be either 0 or 1.19After setting these two parameters we parsed eachof the sentences in our corpus of 14 sentences, andcompared the number of parses to the number ofparses obtained without benefit of prosodic informa-tion.
For half of the sentences, i.e., for one memberof each of the sentence pairs, the number of parsesremained the same.
For the other members of thepairs, the number of parses was reduced, in manycases from two parses to one.The actual sentences and labels are in the ap-pendix.
The incorporation of prosody resulted in a re-duction of about 25% in the number of parses found,as shown in table 1.
Parse times increase about 37%.In the study by Price et al, the sentences withmore major breaks were more reliably identified bythe listeners.
This is exactly what happens whenwe put these sentences through our parser too.
Thelarge prosodic gap between a noun and a followingpreposition, or between a verb and a following prepo-sition provides exactly the type of information thatour grammar can easily make use of to rule out somereadings.
Conversely, a small prosodic gap does notprovide a reliable way to tell which two constituentscombine.
This coincides with Steedman's (1989) ob-servation that syntactic units do not tend to bridgemajor prosodic breaks.We can construe the large break between twowords, for example a verb and a preposition/particle,as indicating that the two do not combine to forma new slightly larger constituent in which they aresisters of each other.
We cannot say that no two con-stituents may combine when they are separated bya large gap, only that the two smallest possible con-stituents, i.e., the two words, may not combine.To do the converse with small gaps and largerphrases imply does not work.
There are cases wherethere is a small gap between two phrases that arejoined together.
For example there can be a small gapbetween the subject NP of a sentence and the mainVP, yet we do not want to say that the two words oneither side of the juncture must form a constituent,e.g., the head noun and auxiliary verb.The fact that parse times increase is due to the wayin which prosodic information is incorporated into thetext.
The parser does a certain amount of work foreach word, and the effect of adding break indices tothe sentence is essentially to double the number ofwords that the parser must process.
We expect thatthis overhead will constitute a less significant percent-age of the parse time as the input sentences becomemore complex.
We also hope to be able to reducethis overhead with a better understanding of the useof prosodic information and how it interacts with theparsing of spoken language.5 Corroborat ion From OtherDataAfter devising our strategy, changing the grammarand lexicon, running our corpus through the parser,and tabulating our results, we looked at some newdata that we had not considered before, to get an ideaof how well our methods would carry over.
The newcorpus we considered is from a recording of a short ra-dio news broadcast.
This time the break indices wereput into the transcript by hand.
There were twenty-two places in the text where our attachment strategywould apply.
In eighteen of those, our strategy or avery slight modification of it, would work properly inruling out some incorrect parses and in not preventingthe correct parse from being found.
In the remainingfour sentences, there seem to be other factors at workthat we hope to be able to incorporate into our sys-tem in the future.
For instance it has been mentionedin other work that the length of a prosodic phrase, asmeasured by the number of words or syllables it con-tains, may affect the location of prosodic boundaries.We are encouraged by the fact that our strategy seemsto work well in eighteen out of twenty-two cases onthe news broadcast corpus.6 ConclusionThe sample of sentences used for this study is ex-tremely small, and the principal test set used, thephonetically ambiguous sentences, is not independentof the set used to develop our system.
We thereforedo not want to make any exaggerated claims in inter-preting our results.
We believe though, that we havefound a promising and novel approach for incorporat-ing prosodic information into a natural anguage pro-cessing system.
We have shown that some extremelycommon cases of syntactic ambiguity can be resolvedwith prosodic information, and that grammars can bemodified to take advantage of prosodic informationfor improved parsing.
We plan to test the algorithmfor generating prosodic break indices on a larger setof sentences by more talkers.
Changing from speechread by professional speakers to spontaneous speechfrom a variety of speakers will no doubt require mod-ification of our system along several dimensions.
Thenext steps in this research will include:?
Investigating further the relationship betweenprosody and syntax, including the different rolesof phrase breaks and prominences in markingsyntactic structure,20?
Improving the prosodic labeling algorithm byincorporating intonation and syntactic/semanticinformation,?
Incorporating the automatically labeled informa-tion in the parser of the SRI Spoken LanguageSystem (Moore, Pereira and Murveit 1989),?
Modeling the break indices tatistically as a func-tion of syntactic structure,?
Speeding up the parser when using the prosodicinformation; the expectation is that pruning outsyntactic hypotheses that are incompatible withthe prosodic pattern observed can both improveaccuracy and speed up the parser overall.7 AcknowledgementsThis work was supported in part by National ScienceFoundation under NSF grant number IRI-8905249.The authors are indebted to the co-Principle Investi-gators on this project, Mart Ostendorf (Boston Uni-versity) and Stefanie Shattuck-Hufnagel (MIT) fortheir roles in defining the prosodic infrastructure onthe speech side of the speech and natural languageintegration.
We thank Hy Murveit (SRI) and ColinWightman (Boston University) for help in generatingthe phone alignments and duration normalizations,and Bob Moore for helpful comments on a draft.We thank Andrea Levitt and Leah Larkey for theirhelp, many years ago, in developing fully voiced struc-turally ambiguous entences without knowing whatuses we would put them to.This work was also supported by the Defense Ad-vanced Research Projects Agency under the Office ofNaval Research contract N00014-85-C-0013.\[3\] W. Cooper and J. Paccia-Cooper (1980) Syn-tax and Speech, Harvard University Press, Cam-bridge, Massachusetts.\[4\] J. P. Gee and F. Grosjean (1983) "PerformanceStructures: A Psycholinguistic and LinguisticAppraisal," Cognitive Psychology, Vol.
15, pp.411-458.\[5\] J. Harrington and A. Johnstone (1987) "The Ef-fects of Word Boundary Ambiguity in Continu-ous Speech Recognition," Proc.
of XI Int.
Cong.Phonetic Sciences, Tallin, Estonia, Se 45.5.1-4.\[6\] A. Komatsu, E. Oohira and A. Ichikawa (1989)"ProsodicM Sentence Structure Inference forNatural Conversational Speech Understanding,"ICOT Technical Memorandum: TM-0733.\[7\] R. Moore, F. Pereira and H. Murveit (1989)"Integrating Speech and Natural-Language Pro-cessing," in Proceedings of the DARPA Speechand Natural Language Workshop, pages 243-247,February 1989.\[8\] P. J.
Price, M. Ostendorf and C. W. Wightman(1989) "Prosody and Parsing," Proceedings ofthe DARPA Workshop on Speech and NaturalLanguage, Cape Cod, October, 1989.\[9\] M. Steedman (1989) "Intonation and Syntax inSpoken Language Systems," Proceedings of theDARPA Workshop on Speech and Natural Lan-guage, Cape Cod, October 1989.\[10\] M. Weintraub, H. Murveit, M. Cohen, P. Price,J.
Bernstein, G. Baldwin and D. Bell (1989)"Linguistic Constraints in Hidden Markov ModelBased Speech Recognition," in Proc.
IEEEInt.
Conf.
Acoust., Speech, Signal Processing,pages 699-702, Glasgow, Scotland, May 1989.References\[1\] H. Alshawi, D. M. Carter, J. van Eijck, R. C.Moore, D. B. Moranl F. C. N. Pereira, S. G.Pulman, and A. G. Smith (1988) Research Pro.gramme In Natural Language Processing: July1988 Annual Report, SRI International TechNote, Cambridge, England.\[2\] E. J. Brisco and B. K. Boguraev (1984) "Con-trol Structures and Theories of Interaction inSpeech Understanding Systems," COLING 1984,pp.
259-266, Association for Computational Lin-guistics, Morristown, New Jersey.8la.lb.2a.AppendixI 1 read O a 0 review 2 of 1 nasality 4 in 0 German.I 0 read 2 a 1 review 1 of 0 nasality 1 in 0 German.Why 0 are 0 you 2 grinding 0 in 3 the 0 mud.2b.
Why 1 are 0 you 2 grinding 3 in 0 the 1 mud.3a.
Raoul 2 murdered 1 the 0 man 4 with 0 a 1 gun.3b.
Raoul 1 murdered 3 the 0 man 1 with 0 a 0 gun.4a.
The 0 men 1 won 3 over 0 their 0 enemies.4b.
The 0 men 2 won 0 over 1 their 0 enemies.215a.
Marge 1 would 0 never 0 deal 3 in 0 any 0 guise.5b.
Marge 0 would 1 never 2 deal 0 in 2 any 0 guys.6a.
Andrea 1 moved 1 the 0 bottle 3 under 0 the 0bridge.6b.
Andrea 1 moved 3 the 0 bottle 1 under 0 the 0bridge.7a.
They 0 may 0 wear 4 down 0 the 0 road.7b.
They 0 may 1 wear 0 down 2 the 0 road.22
