Mixed Initiative in Dialogue: An Investigation into DiscourseSegmentationMarilyn WalkerUniversity of Pennsylvania*Computer Science Dept.Philadelphia, PA 19104lyn@linc.cis.upenn.eduSteve WhittakerHewlett Packard LaboratoriesBristol, England BS12 6QZHP Stanford Science Centersjw@hplb.hpl.hp.comAbstractConversation between two people is usually ofMIXED-INITIATIVE, with CONTROL over the con-versation being transferred from one person to an-other.
We apply a set of rules for the transfer ofcontrol to 4 sets of dialogues consisting of a total of1862 turns.
The application of the control rules letsus derive domain-independent discourse structures.The derived structures indicate that initiative playsa role in the structuring of discourse.
In order toexplore the relationship of control and initiative todiscourse processes like centering, we analyze thedistribution of four different classes of anaphora fortwo data sets.
This distribution i dicates that somecontrol segments are hierarchically related to oth-ers.
The analysis uggests that discourse partic-ipants often mutually agree to a change of topic.We also compared initiative in Task Oriented andAdvice Giving dialogues and found that both allo-cation of control and the manner in which controlis transferred is radically different for the two dia-logue types.
These differences can be explained interms of collaborative planning principles.1 Introduct ionConversation between two people has a number ofcharacteristics that have yet to be modeled ade-quately in human-computer dialogue.
Conversa-tion is BIDIRECTIONAL; there is a two way flowof information between participants.
Information*This research was partially funded by ARO grantsDAAG29-84-K-0061 and DAAL03-89-C0031PRI, DARPAgrant N00014-85-K0018, and NSF grant MCS-82-19196 atthe University of Pennsylvania, and by Hewlett Packard,U.K.is exchanged by MIXED-INITIATIVE.
Each partici-pant will, on occasion, take the conversational lead.Conversational partners not only respond to whatothers say, but feel free to volunteer informationthat is not requested and sometimes ask questionsof their own\[Nic76\].
As INITIATIVE passes back andforth between the discourse participants, we saythat CONTROL over the conversation gets trans-ferred from one discourse participant to another.Why should we, as computational linguists, beinterested in factors that contribute to the interac-tivity of a discourse?
There are both theoreticaland practical motivations.
First, we wish to ex-tend formal accounts of single utterances producedby single speakers to explain multi-participant,multi-utterance discourses\[Po186, CP86\].
Previ-ous studies of the discourse structure of multi-participant dialogues have often factored out therole of MIXED-INITIATIVE, by allocating control toone participant\[Gro77, Coh84\], or by assuming apassive listener\[McK85, Coh87\].
Since conversationis a collaborative process\[CWG86, SSJ74\], modelsof conversation can provide the basis for extendingplanning theories\[GS90, CLNO90\].
When the sit-uation requires the negotiation of a collaborativeplan, these theories must account for the interact-ing beliefs and intentions of multiple participants.~,From apractical perspective, there is ample evi-dence that limited mixed-initiative has contributedto lack of system usability.
Many researchershave noted that the absence of mixed-initiativegives rise to two problems with expert systems:They don't allow users to participate in the rea-soning process, or to ask the questions they wantanswered\[PHW82, Kid85, FL89\].
In addition, ques-tion answering systems often fail to take accountof the system's role as a conversational partner.70For example, fragmentary utterances may be inter-preted with respect o the previous user input, butwhat users say is often in reaction to the system'sprevious response\[CP82, Sid83\].In this paper we focus on interactive discourse.We model mixed-initiative using an utterance typeclassification and a set of rules for transfer of controlbetween discourse participants that were proposedby Whittaker and Stenton\[WS88\].
We evaluate thegenerality of this analysis by applying the controlrules to 4 sets of dialogues, including both advi-sory dialogues (ADs) and task-oriented ialogues(TODs).
We analysed both financial and supportADs.
The financial ADs are from the radio talkshow "Harry Gross: Speaking of Your Money "1The support ADs resulted from a client phoningan expert o help them diagnose and repair varioussoftware faults ~.
The TODs are about the construc-tion of a plastic water pump in both telephone andkeyboard modality S.The application of the control rules to these dia-logues lets us derive domain-independent discoursesegments with each segment being controlled by oneor other discourse participant.
We propose thatcontrol segments correspond to different subgoalsin the evolving discourse plan.
In addition, we ar-gue that various linguistic devices are necessary forconversational participants to coordinate their con-tributions to the dialogue and agree on their mu-tual beliefs with respect o a evolving plan, for ex-ample, to agree that a particular subgoal has beenachieved.
A final phenomenon concerns hifts ofcontrol and the devices used to achieve this.
Con-trol shifts occur because it is unusual for a singleparticipant o be responsible for coordinating theachievement of the whole discourse plan.
When adifferent participant assumes control of a discoursesubgoal then a control shift occurs and the par-ticipants must have mechanisms for achieving this.The control framework distinguishes instances inwhich a control shift is negotiated by the partic-ipants and instances where one participant seizescontrol.This paper has two objectives:110 randomly selected ialogues (474 turns) from a corpusthat was collected and transcribed by Martha Pollack andJulia Hirschberg\[HL87, PHW82\].24 dialogues (450 turns) from tapes made at one ofHewlett-Packard's customer response centers.
See \[WS88\].35 keyboard (224 turns) and 5 telephone dialogues (714turns), which were collected in an experiment by Phil Cohento explore the relationship between modality, interactivityand use of referring expressions\[Coh84\].To explore the phenomenon of control in rela-tion to ATTENTIONAL STATE \[GS86, GJW86,Sid79\] 4.
We predict shifts of attentional statewhen shifts in control are negotiated andagreed by all participants, but not when con-trol is seized by one participant without theacceptance of the others.
This should be re-flected in different distribution of anaphora inthe two cases.To test predictions about the distribution ofcontrol in different types of dialogues.
Be-cause the TOD's embody the master-slaveassumption\[GSg0\], and control is allocated tothe expert, our expectation is that controlshould be located exclusively with one partici-pant in the TODs in contrast with the ADs.2 Rules  for the A l locat ionand Transfer of ControlWe use the framework for the allocation and trans-fer of control of Whittaker and Stenton\[WS88\].
Theanalysis is based on a classification of utterancesinto 4 types 5.
These are:?
UTTERANCE TYPES-- ASSERTIONS: Declarative utterances usedto state facts.
Yes and No in response toa question were classified as assertions onthe basis that they are supplying informa-tion.-- COMMANDS: Utterances intended to in-stigate action.
Generally imperativeform, but could be indirect such as Mysuggestion would be that you do .....-QUESTIONS: Utterances which are in-tended to elicit information, including in-direct forms such as I was wonderingwhether I should ....-- PROMPTS: Utterances which did not ex-press propositional content, such as Yeah,Okay, Uh-huh ....4The theory of centering, which is part of attentionalstate, depends on discourse participants' recognizing the be-ginning and end of a discourse segment\[BFP87, Wal89\].5The relationship between utterance l vel meaning anddiscourse intentions rests on a theory of joint commitmentor shared plans\[GSg0, CLNO90, LCN90\]71Note that prompts are in direct contrast o theother options that a participant has available atany point in the discourse.
By indicating that thespeaker does not want the floor, prompts functionon a number of levels, including the expression ofunderstanding or agreement\[Sch82\].The rules for the allocation of control are basedon the utterance type classification and allow a di-alogue to be divided into segments that correspondto which speaker is the controller of the segment.?
CONTROL RULESUTTERANCEASSERT IONCOMMANDQUEST IONPROMPTCONTROLLER (ICP)SPEAKER, unless responseto a QuestionSPEAKERSPEAKER, unless responseto Question or CommandHEARERThe definition of controller can be seen to cor-respond to the intuitions behind the term INITI-ATING CONVERSATIONAL PARTICIPANT (ICP), whois defined as the initiator of a given discoursesegment\[GS86\].
The OTHER CONVERSATIONALPARTICIPANT(S), OCP, may speak some utterancesin a segment, but the DISCOURSE SEGMENT PUR-POSE, must be the purpose of the ICP.
The controlrules place a segment boundary whenever the rolesof the participants (ICP or OCP) change.
For ex-ample:Abdication ExampleE: "And they are, in your gen youql find that they've relo-Cated into the labelled common area"(ASSERT - E control)C: "That's right."
(PROMPT - E control)E: "Yeah" (PROMPT - E abdicates control)CONTROL SHIFT TO C - -C: "I've got two in there.
There are two of them."
(ASSERT- C control)E: "Right" (PROMPT - C control)C: "And there's another one which is % RESA"(ASSERT - C control)E: "OK urn" (PROMPT - C control)C: "VS" (ASSERT- C control)E: "Right" (PROMPT - C control)C: "Mm" (PROMPT - C abdicates control)CONTROL SHIFT TO E - - - -E: "Right and you haven't got - I assume you haven't gotlocal labelled common with those labels"(QUESTION - E control)Whittaker and Stenton also performed a post-hoeanalysis of the segment boundaries that are definedby the control rules.
The boundaries fell into oneof three types:?
CONTROL SHIFT  TYPES- ABDICATION: Okay, go on.- REPETITION/SUMMARY: That would bemy recommendation a d that will ensurethat you get a logically integral set of files.- I N T E R R U P T I O N :  It is something newthough urn.ABDICATIONS 6 correspond to those cases wherethe controller produces a prompt as the lastutterance of the segment.
The class REPETI-TION/SUMMARY corresponds to the controller pro-ducing a redundant  utterance.
The utterance iseither an exact repetition of previous propositionalcontent, or a summary that realizes a proposition,P, which could have been inferred from what camebefore.
Thus orderly control shifts occur whenthe controller explicitly indicates that s/he wishesto relinquish control.
What unifies ABDICATIONSand REPETITION/SUMMARIES is that the controllersupplies no new propositional content.
The re-maining class, INTERRUPTIONS, characterize shiftsoccurring when the noncontroller displays initia-tive by seizing control.
This class is more generalthan other definitions of Interruptions.
It prop-erly contains cross-speaker interruptions that in-volve topic shift, similar to the true-interruptionsof Grosz and Sidner\[GS86\], as well as clarificationsubdialogues\[Sid83, LA90\].This classification suggests that the transfer ofcontrol is often a collaborative phenomenon.
Sincea noncontroller(OCP), has the option of seizing con-trol at any juncture in discourse, it would seemthat controllers(ICPs), are in control because thenoncontroller allows it.
These observations addressproblems raised by Grosz and Sidner, namely howICPs signal and OCPs recognize segment bound-aries.
The claim is that shifts of control often donot occur until the controller indicates the end ofa discourse segment by abdicating or producing arepetition/summary.3 Control Segmentation andAnaphoraTo determine the relationship between the de-rived control segments and ATTENTIONAL STATE we6Our abdication category was called prompt by \[WS88\].72looked at the distribution of anaphora with respectto the control segments in the ADs.
All data wereanalysed statistically by X 2 and all differences citedare significant at the 0.05 level.
We looked at allanaphors (excluding first and second person), andgrouped them into 4 classes.?
C lasses  o f  Anaphors- 3RD PERSON: it, they, them, their, she,he, her, him, his- -  ONE/SOME, one of them, one of those, anew one, that one, the other one, some- DEICTIC: Noun phrases, e.g.
this, that,this NP, that NP, those NP, these NP- EVENT: Verb Phrases, Sentences, Seg-ments, e.g.
this, that, itThe class DEICTIC refers to deictic references tomaterial introduced by noun phrases, whereas theclass EVENT refers to material introduced clausally.3.1 Hierarchical RelationshipsThe first phenomenon we noted was that theanaphora distribution indicated that some seg-ments are hierarchically related to others 7.
Thiswas especially apparent in cases where one dis-course participant interrupted briefly, then imme-diately passed control back to the other.Interrupt/Abdicate 1A: ... the only way I could do that was to take a to take aone third down and to take back a mortgage (ASSERTION)-INTERRUPT SHIFT TO B- - -2.
B: When you talk about one third put a number on it(QUESTION)3.
A: uh 15 thou (ASSERTION, but response)4.
B: go ahead (PROMPT)- - - -ABDICATE SHIFT BACK TO .4.-5.
A: and then I'm a mortgage baz.k for 36The following example illustrates the same point.Interrupt/Abdicate 21.
A: The maximum amount ... will be $400 on THEIRtax return.
(ASSERTION)INTERRUPT SHIFT TO B7Similar phenomena h s been noted by many researchersin discourse including\[Gro77, Hob79, Sid79, PHg0\].2.
B: 400 for the whole year?
(QUESTION)3.
A: yeah it'll be 20% (ASSERTION, but response)4.
B: um hm (PROMPT)- - - - -ABDICATE SHIFT BACK TO A-5.
A: now if indeed THEY pay the $2000 to your wife ....The control segments as defined would treat bothof these cases as composed of 3 different segments.But this ignores the fact that utterances (1) and(5) have closely related propositional content in thefirst example, and that the plural pronoun straddlesthe central subsegment with the same referents be-ing picked out by they and their in the second ex-ample.
Thus we allowed for hierarchical segmentsby treating the interruptions of 2-4 as subsegments,and utterances 1 and 5 as related parts of the parentsegments.
All interruptions were treated as embed-dings in this way.
However the relationship of thesegment after the interruption to the segment be-fore must be determined on independent groundssuch as topic or intentional structure.3.2 Distr ibutionOnce we extended the control framework to allowfor the embedding of interrupts, we coded everyanaphor with respect o whether its antecedent layoutside or within the current segment.
These are la-belled X (cross segment boundary antecedent) NX(no cross segment boundary), in Figure 1.
In addi-tion we break these down as to which type of controlshift occurred at the previous egment boundary.3rd Pets One Deictic Eventx  xlxk xlxi x x IAbdication 1 105 0 10 27 7 183  ll01 4 l i31  5 li 5 iInter pt 7 :7 il 0 I 0 il 8 I 9 i l2  1, ITOTAL 11 165 el 0 I 14 ii 24 I 41 el '1 34 iFigure 1: Distribution of Anaphora in Finance ADsWe also looked at the distribution of anaphora inthe Support ADs and found similar results.For both dialogues, the distribution of anaphorsvaries according to which type of control shift oc-curred at the previous segment boundary.
Whenwe look at the different ypes of anaphora, we findthat third person and one anaphors cross bound-73AbdicationSummaryInterruptTOTAL3rd Pets One Deictic Event x ixtvlixl xllx v4 46 0 4 12 44 =6 i l l  4 II 10 16  II 9 =46 40 II 0 4 115 I 5 II 5 1016 11211 1 11 11191 23 Il ls 42 IFigure 2: Distribution of Anaphora in Support ADsaries extremely rarely, but the event anaphors andthe deictic pronouns demonstrate a different pat-tern.
What does this mean?The fact that anaphora is more likely to crosssegment boundaries following interruptions than forsummaries or abdications i consistent with the con-trol principles.
With both summaries and abdica-tions the speaker gives an explicit signal that s/hewishes to relinquish control.
In contrast, interrup-tions are the unprompted attempts of the listenerto seize control, often having to do with some 'prob-lem' with the controller's utterance.
Therefore, in-terruptions are much more likely to be within topic.But why should deixis and event anaphors be-have differently from the other anaphors?
Deixisserves to pick out objects that cannot be selectedby the use of standard anaphora, i.e.
we shouldexpect he referents for deixis to be outside imme-diate focus and hence more likely to be outside thecurrent segment\[Web86\].
The picture is more com-plex for event anaphora, which seems to serve anumber of different functions in the dialogue.
It isused to talk about the past events that lead up tothe current situation, I did THAT in order to movethe place.
It is also used to refer to sets of propo-sitions of the preceding discourse, Now THAT'S  alittle background (cf \[Web88\]).
The most prevalentusei however, was to refer to future events or ac-tions, THAT would be the move that I would make- but you have to do IT  the same day.SUMMARY EXAMPLEA: As far as you are concerned THAT could cost you more.... what's your tax bracket?
(QUESTION)B: Well I'm on pension Harry and my wife hasn't worked atall and ..(ASSERT/RESP)A: No reason at all why you can't do THAT.
(ASSERTION)- - -SUMMARY 3HIFT to B ....13: See my comment was if we should throw even the $2000into an IRA or something for her.
(ASSERTION)--REPETITION SHIFT to A.A: You could do THAT too.
(ASSERTION)Since the task in the ADs is to develop a plan,speakers use event anaphora s concise references tothe plans they have just negotiated and to discussthe status and quality of plans that have been sug-gested.
Thus the frequent cross-speaker referencesto future events and actions correspond to phases ofplan negotiation\[PHW82\].
More importantly thesereferences are closely related to the control struc-ture.
The example above illustrates the clusteringof event anaphora t segment boundaries.
One dis-course participant uses an anaphor to summarize aplan, but when the other participant evaluates thisplan there may be a control shift and any referenceto the plan will necessarily cross a control boundary.The distribution of event anaphora bears this out,since 23/25 references to future actions are within2 utterances of a segment boundary (See the ex-ample above).
More significantly every instance ofevent anaphora crossing a segment boundary occurswhen the speaker is talking about future events oractions.We also looked at the TODs for instances ofanaphora being used to describe a future act inthe way that we observed in the ADs.
However,over the 938 turns in the TODs, there were only 18instances of event anaphora, because in the mainthere were few occasions when it was necessary totalk about the plan.
The financial ADs had 45 eventanaphors in 474 utterances.4 Cont ro l  and  Co l laborat iveP lansTo explore the relationship of control to planning,we compare the TODs with both types of ADs(financial and support).
We would expect thesedialogues to differ in terms of initiative.
In theADs, the objective is to develop a collaborative planthrough a series of conversational exchanges.
Bothdiscourse participants believe that the expert hasknowledge about the domain, but only has partialinformation about the situation.
They also believethat the advisee must contribute both the prob-lem description and also constraints as to how theproblem can be solved.
This information must beexchanged, so that the mutual beliefs necessary todevelop the collaborative plan are established inthe conversation\[Jos82\].
The situation is different74in the TODs.
Both participants here believe atthe outset that the expert has sufficient informa-tion about the situation and complete and correctknowledge about how to execute the Task.
Sincethe apprentice has no need to assert informationto change the expert's beliefs or to ask questionsto verify the expert's beliefs or to issue commands,we should not expect the apprentice to have con-trol.
S/he is merely present o execute the actionsindicated by the knowledgeable participant.The differences in the beliefs and knowledgestates of the participants can be interpreted in theterms of the collaborative planning principles ofWhittaker and Stenton\[WS88\].
We generalize theprinciples of INFORMATION QUALITY and PLANQUALITY, which predict when an interrupt shouldoccur .?
INFORMATION QUALITY: The listener must be-lieve that the information that the speaker hasprovided is true, unambiguous and relevant othe mutual goal.
This corresponds to the tworules: (A1) TRUTH: If the listener believes afact P and believes that fact to be relevant andeither believes that the speaker believes not Por that the speaker does not know P then inter-rupt; (A2)AMBIGUITY: If the listener believesthat the speaker's assertion is relevant but am-biguous then interrupt.?
PLAN QUALITY: The listener must believe thatthe action proposed by the speaker is a part ofan adequate plan to achieve the mutual goaland the action must also be comprehensible tothe listener.
The two rules to express this are:(B1)EFFECTIVENESS: If the listener believesP and either believes that P presents an ob-stacle to the proposed plan or believes that P?
is part of the proposed plan that has alreadybeen satisfied, then interrupt; (B2) AMBIGU-ITY: If  the listener believes that an assertionabout the proposed plan is ambiguous, theninterrupt.These principles indirectly proyide a means toensure mutual belief.
Since a participant must in-terrupt if any condition for an interrupt holds, thenlack of interruption signals that there is no discrep-ancy in mutual beliefs.
If there is such a discrep-ancy, the interruption is a necessary contributionto a collaborative plan, not a distraction from thejoint activity.We compare ADs to TODs with respect o howTurns/SegExp-ContrAbdicationSummaryInterruptFinance Support Task-Phone Task-Key7.49 8.03 15.68 11.2760?~ 51~ 91% 91%38~ 38~0 45~ 28%23?~ 27~ 7~ 6~38~ 36?~ 48~ 67%Turns/Seg: Average number of turns between control shiftsExp-Contr: % total turns controlled by expertAbdication: ~ control shifts that are AbdicationsSummaries: % control shifts that are Reps/SummariesInterrupt: ~ control shifts that are InterruptsFigure 3: Differences in Control for Dialogue Typesoften control is exchanged by calculating the aver-age number of turns between control shifts .
Wealso investigate whether control is shared equallybetween participants and what percentage of con-trol shifts are represented by abdications, inter-rupts, and summaries for each dialogue type.
SeeFigure 3.Three things are striking about this data.
As wepredicted, the distribution of control between ex-pert and client is completely different in the ADsand the TODs.
The expert has control for around90% of utterances in the TODs whereas control isshared almost equally in the ADs.
Secondly, con-trary to our expectations, we did find some in-stances of shifts in the TODs.
Thirdly, the distri-bution of interruptions and summaries differs acrossdialogue types.
How can the collaborative planningprinciples highlight the differences we observe?There seem to be two reasons why shifts occur inthe TODs.
First, many interruptions in the TODsresult from the apprentice seizing control just toindicate that there is a temporary problem and thatplan execution should be delayed.TASK INTERRUPT 1, A is the InstructorA: It's hard to get on (ASSERTION)- - - - - INTERRUPT SHIFT TO BB: Not there yet - ouch yep it's there.
(ASSERTION)A: Okay (PROMPT)B: Yeah (PROMPT)-ABDICATE SHIFT TO A- -A: All right.
Now there's a little blue cap ..Second, control was exchanged when the execu-tion of the task started to go awry.8 We excluded turns  in dialogue openings and closings.75TASK INTERRUPT 2, A is the InstructorA: And  then the elbow goes over that ... the big end of theelbow.
(COMMAND)- - - INTERRUPT SHIFT TO B ~B: You said that it d idn't  fit tight, but  it doesn't  fit t ight atall, okay ... (ASSERTION)A: Okay (PROMPT)B: Let me try THIS - oo1~ - again(ASSERTION)The problem with the physical situation indicatesto the apprentice that the relevant beliefs are nolonger shared.
The Instructor is not in possessionof critical information such as the current state ofthe apprentice's pump.
This necessitates an infor-mation exchange to resynchronize mutual beliefs,so that the rest of the plan "~ ~,v be successfully ex-ecuted.
However, since control is explicitly allo-cated to the  instructor in TODs, there is no reasonfor that participant o believe that the other hasany contribution to make.
Thus there are fewerattempts by the instructor to coordinate activity,such as by using summaries to synchronize mutualbeliefs.
Therefore, if the apprentice needs to makea contribution, s/he must do so via interruption,explaining why there are many more interruptionsin these dialogues.
9 In addition, the majority ofInterruptions (73%) are initiated by apprentices, incontrast to the ADs in which only 29% are producedby the Clients.Summaries are more frequent in ADs.
In the ADsboth participants believe that a plan cannot be con-structed without contributions from both of them.Abdications and summaries are devices which al-low these contributions to be coordinated and par-ticipants use these devices to explicitly set up op-portunities for one another to make a contribution,and to ensure mutual bellefs The increased fre-quency of summaries in the ADs may result fromthe fact that the participants start with discrepantmutual beliefs about the situation and that estab-lishing and maintaining mutual beliefs is a key partof the ADs.5 D iscuss ionIt has Often been stated that discourse is an inher-ently collaborative process and that this is man-ifested in certain phenomena, e.g.
the use of9The higher, percentage of Interruptions in the keyboardTODs in comparison with the t ~1 ~ ./.hone TODs parallels Ovi-att and Cohen's analysis, showing that participants exploitthe Wider bandwidth of the iptoractive spoken channel tobreak tasks down into subtaskstCoh84 , OC89\].anaphora nd cue words \[GS86, HL87, Coh87\] bywhich the speaker makes aspects of the discoursestructure xplicit.
We found shifts of attentionalstate when shifts in control are negotiated andagreed by all participants, but not when controlis seized by one participant without the acceptanceof the others.
This was reflected in different distri-bution of anaphora in the two cases.
Furthermorewe found that not all types of anaphora behavedin the same way.
Event anaphora clustered at seg-ment boundaries when it was used to refer to pre-ceding segments and was more likely to cross seg-ment boundaries because of its function in talkingabout the proposed plan.
We also found that con-trol was distributed and exchanged ifferently inthe ADs and TODs.
These results provide supportfor the control rules.In our analysis we argued for hierarchical orga-nization of the control segments on the basis ofspecific examples of interruptions.
We also be-lieve that there are other levels of structure in dis-course that are not captured by the control rules,e.g.
control shifts do not always correspond withtask boundaries.
There can be topic shifts with-out change of initiation, change of control withouta topic shift\[WS88\].
The relationship of cue words,intonational contour\[PH90\] and the use of modalsubordination\[Rob86\] to the segments derived fromthe control rules is a topic for future research.A more controversial question concerns rhetori-cal relations and the extent to which these are de-tected and used by listeners\[GS86\].
Hobbs has ap-plied COHERENCE RELATIONS to face-to-face con-versation in which mixed-initiative is displayed byparticipants\[HA85, Hob79\].
One category of rhetor-ical relation he describes is that of ELABORATION,in which a speaker epeats the propositional con-tent of a previous utterance.
Hobbs has some diffi-culties determining the function of this repetition,but we maintain that the function follows from themore general principles of the control rules: speak-ers signal that they wish to shift control by sup-plying no new propositional content.
Abdications,repetitions and summaries all add no new informa-tion and function to signal to the listener that thespeaker has nothing further to say right now.
Thelistener certainly must recognize this fact.Summaries appear to have an additional functionof synchronization, by allowing both participants toagree on what propositions are mutually believedat that point in the discussion.
Thus this workhighlights aspects of collaboration i discourse, but76should be formally integrated with research oncollaborative planning\[GS90, LCN90\], particularlywith respect o the relation between control shiftsand the coordination of  plans.6 AcknowledgementsWe would like to thank Aravind Joshi for his sup-port, comments and criticisms.
Discussions of jointaction with Phil Cohen and the members of CSLI'sDIA working group have influenced the first au-thor.
We are also indebted to Susan Brennan, HerbClark, Julia Hirschberg, Jerry Hobbs, Libby Levi-son, Kathy McKeown, Ellen Prince, Penni Sibun,Candy Sidner, Martha Pollack, Phil Stenton, andBonnie Webber for their insightful comments andcriticisms on drafts of this paper.References\[BFP87\] Susan E. Brennan, Marilyn WalkerFriedman, and Carl J. Pollard.
A cen-tering approach to pronouns.
In Proc.25th Annual Meeting of the ACL, pages155-162, 1987.\[CLNO90\] Phillip R. Cohen, Hector J. Levesque,Jose H. T. Nunes, and Sharon L. Ovi-att.
Task oriented dialogue as a conse-quence of joint activity, 1990.
Unpub-lished Manuscript.\[Coh84\] Phi\]lip R. Cohen.
The pragmatics of re-ferring and the modality of communica-tion.
ComputationalLinguistics, 10:97-146, 1984.\[Coh87\] Robin Cohen.
Analyzing the structureof argumentative discourse.
Computa-tional Linguistics, 13:11-24, 1987.\[CP82\] Phillip R. Cohen, C. Raymond Per-rault, and James F. Allen 1982.
Beyondquestion answering.
In Wendy Lehnertand Martin Ringle, editors, Strategiesfor Natural Language Processing, pages245-274.
Lawrence Erlbaum Ass.
Inc,Hillsdale, N.J., 1982.\[CP86\] Philip R. Cohen and C. RaymondPerrault.
Elements of a plan-basedtheory of speech acts.
In Bonnie\[CWG86\]\[FL89\]\[GJW86\]\[Gro77\]\[GS86\]\[GS90\]\[HA85\]\[HL87\]\[Hob79\]\[Jos82\]Lynn Webber Barbara J. Grosz, KarenSparck Jones, editor, Readings in Nat-ural Language Processing, pages 423-440.
Morgan Kauffman, Los Altos, Ca.,1986.Herbert H. Clark and Deanna Wilkes-Gibbs.
Referring as a collaborative pro-cess.
Cognition, 22:1-39, 1986.David M. Frohlich and Paul Luff.
Con-versational resources for situated action.In Proc.
Annual Meeting of the Com-puter Human Interaction of the ACM,1989.Barbara J. Grosz, Aravind K. Joshi, andScott Weinstein.
Towards a computa-tional theory of discourse interpretation.Unpublished Manuscript, 1986.Barbara J. Grosz.
The representationand use of focus in dialogue understand-ing.
Technical Report 151, SRI Inter-national, 333 Ravenswood Ave, MenloPark, Ca.
94025, 1977.Barbara J. Grosz and Candace L. Sid-net.
Attentions, intentions and thestructure of discourse.
ComputationalLinguistics, 12:pp.
175-204, 1986.Barbara J. Grosz and Candace L. Sid-her.
Plans for discourse.
In Cohen,Morgan and Pollack, eds.
Intentionsin Communication, MIT Press, Cam-bridge, MA., 1990.Jerry R. Hobbs and Michael H. Agar.The coherence of incoherent discourse.Technical Report CSLI-85-38, Centerfor the Study of Language and Informa-tion, Ventura Hall, Stanford University,Stanford, CA 94305, 1985.Julia Hirschberg and Diane Litman.Now lets talk about now: Identifyingcue phrases intonationally.
In Proc.
25thAnnual Meeting of the ACL, pages 163-171, Stanford University, Stanford, Ca.,1987.Jerry R. Hobbs.
Coherence and corefer-ence.
Cognitive Science, 3:67-90, 1979.Aravind K. Joshi.
Mutual beliefs inquestion-answer systems.
In Neil V.77\[Kid85\]\[LA90\]\[LCN90\]\[McK85\]\[Nic76\]\[oc89\]\[PH90\]\[PHW82\]\[Po186\]Smith eds.
Mutual Knowledge, Aca-demic Press, New York, New York,pages 181-199, 1982.Alison Kidd.
The consultative roleof an expert system.
In P. Johnsonand S. Cook, editors, People and Com-puters: Designing the Interface.
Cam-bridge University Press, Cambridge,U.K., 1985.Diane Litman and James Allen.
Rec-ognizing and relating discourse inten-tions and task-oriented plans.
In Co-hen, Morgan and Pollack, eds.
Inten-tions in Communication, MIT Press,Cambridge, MA., 1990.Hector J. Levesque, Phillip R. Cohen,and Jose H. T. Nunes.
On acting to-gether.
In AAAIgO, 1990.Kathleen R. McKeown.
Discoursestrategies for generating natural lan-guage text.
Artificial Intelligence,27(1):1-42, September 1985.R.S.
Nickerson.
On converational in-teraction with computers.
In SiegFriedTreu, editor, User-Oriented Design ofInteractive Graphics Systems, pages101-65.
Elsevier Science, 1976.Sharon L. Oviatt and Philip R. Cohen.The effects of interaction on spoken dis-course.
In Proc.
27th Annual Meeting ofthe ACL, pages 126-134, 1989.Janet Pierrehum-bert and Julia Hirschberg.
The meaningof intonational contours in the interpre-tation of discourse.
In Cohen, Morganand Pollack, eds.
Intentions in Commu-nication, MIT Press, Cambridge, MA.,1990.Martha Pollack, Julia Hirschberg, andBonnie Webber.
User participation inthe reasoning process of expert systems.In Proc.
National Conference on Artifi-cial Intelligence, 1982.Martha Pollack.
Inferring domain plansin question answering.
Technical Report403, SRI International - Artificial Intel-ligence Center, 1986.\[Rob86\]\[Sch82\]\[Sid79\]\[Sid83\]\[SSJ74\]\[Wa189\]\[Web86\]\[Web88\]\[ws88\]Craige Roberts.
Modal Subordinationand Anaphora.
PhD thesis, Linguis-tics Dept, University of Massachusetts,Amherst, 1986.Emanuel A. Sehegloff.
Discourse as aninteractional chievement: Some uses of'uh huh' and other things that comebetween sentences.
In D. Tannen, ed-itor, Analyzing Discourse: Text andTalk, pages 71-93.
Georgetown Univer-sity Press, 1982.Candace L. Sidner.
Toward a computa-tional theory of definite anaphora com-prehension i english.
Technical ReportAI-TR-537, MIT, 1979.Candace Sidner.
What the speakermeans: the recognition of speakers plansin discourse.
International Journal ofComputers and Mathematics, 9:71-82,1983.Harvey Sacks, Emmanuel Schegloff, andGail Jefferson.
A simplest systematicsfor the organization of turn-taking inconversation.
Language, 50:pp.
325-345,1974.Marilyn A. Walker.
Evaluating dis-course processing algorithms.
In Proc.27th Annual Meeting of the A CL, pages251-261, 1989.Bonnie Lynn Webber.
Two steps closerto event reference.
Technical ReportMS-CIS-86-74, Line Lab 42, Depart-ment of Computer and Information Sci-ence, University of Pennsylvania, 1986.Bonnie Lynn Webber.
Discourse deixis:Reference to discourse segments.
InProc.
26th Annual Meeting of the ACL,Association of Computational Linguis-tics, pages 113-123, 1988.Steve Whittaker and Phil Stenton.
Cuesand control in expert client dialogues.
InProc.
26th Annual Meeting of the ACL,Association of Computational Linguis-tics, pages 123-130, 1988.78
