A Compositional Semantics for Focusing SubjunctsDaniel Lyons*MCC3500 West Balcones Center DriveAustin, TX 78759, USAlyons~mcc.comGraeme HirstDepartment of Computer ScienceUniversity of TorontoToronto, Canada MSS 1A4gh~ai.toronto.eduAbstractA compositional semantics for focusing subjuncts--words such as only, even, and also--is developedfrom Rooth's theory of association with focus.
Byadapting the theory so that it can be expressed interms of a frame-based semantic formalism, a seman-tics that is more computationally practical is arrivedat.
This semantics captures pragmatic subtleties byincorporating a two-part representation, and recog-nizes the contribution of intonation to meaning.1 IntroductionFocusing sub juncts  such as only, even, and alsoare a subclass of the sentence-element class of ad-verbials (Quirk et al, 1985).
They draw attentionto a part of a sentence the focus of the focusingsubjunct--which often represents 'new' information.Focusing subjuncts are usually realized by adverbs,but occasionally by prepositional phrases.
Focusingsubjuncts emphasize, approximate, or restrict theirfoci.
They modify the force or truth value of a sen-tence, especially with respect o its applicability tothe focused item (Quirk et al, 1985, ?8.116).1.1 The  prob lem wi th  focusing sub junctsThere are several reasons why developing any se-mantics for focusing subjuncts is a difficult task.First, focusing subjuncts are 'syntacticallypromiscuous'.
They can adjoin to any maximal pro-jection.
They can occur at almost any position in asentence.Second, focusing subjuncts are also 'semanticallypromiscuous'.
They may focus (draw attention to)almost any constituent.
They can precede or fol-low the item that they focus, and need not be adja-cent to this item.
The focus need only be containedsomewhere within the syntactic sister of the focus-ing subjunct.
Because of this behavior, it is difficultto determine the intended syntactic argument (ad-junct) and focus of a focusing subjunct.
Sentences*The work described in this paper was done at the Universityof Toronto.such as those in (1) can be ambiguous, even whenuttered aloud with intonational effects.
1(1) 1.
John could also (SEE) his wife from thedoorway (as well as being able to talk toher).2.
John could also see (his WIFE) from thedoorway (as well as her brother).3.
John could also see his wife (from theDOORway) (as well as from further insidethe room).4.
John could also (see his wife from theDOORway) (as well as being able to doother things).Third, the location of intonational stress has animportant effect on the meaning of a sentence con-taining a focusing subjunct.
Sentences may bepartly disambiguated by intonational stress: inter-pretations in which stress falls outside the intendedfocus of the focusing subjunct are impossible.
Forexample, the sentence(2) *John could also see (his wife) from theDOORway.is impossible on the indicated reading, since stresson door cannot confer focus on his wife.
On the otherhand, stress does not help to disambiguate betweenreadings uch as (1.3) and (1.4).Fourth, focusing subjuncts don't fit into the slot-filler semantics that seem adequate for handlingmany other sentence lements (see Section 1.3)~ Atbest, their semantic effect is to transform the se-mantic representation f the constituent they modifyin some predictable compositional way (Hirst, 1987,p.
72).Finally, focusing subjuncts carry pragmatic "bag-gage".
The meaning of a focusing subjunct includesdistinct asser ted and non-asser ted  parts (Horn,1969), (Karttunen and Peters, 1979).
For example,1 In the example sentences in this paper, small capitals de-note intonational stress.
Angle brackets 0 enclose the focusof a focusing subjunct and square brackets \[\] set off the con-stituent to which the focusing subjunct adjoins.
Unacceptablesentences are preceded by an asterisk.54(3) asserts (4.1) but only presupposes (4.2) (Horn,1969):(3) Only Muriel voted for Hubert.
(4) 1.
No one other than Muriel voted for Hu-bert.2.
Muriel voted for Hubert.Analogously, (5) asserts (6.1) and presupposes (6.2)(Karttunen and Peters, 1979):(5) Even Bill likes Mary.
(6) 1.
Bill likes Mary.2.
Other people besides Bill like Mary; andof the people under consideration, Bill isthe least likely to like Mary.The precise status of such pragmatic inferences icontroversial.
We take no stand here on this issue, oron the definition of "presupposition".
We will simplysay that, for example, (4.1) is due to the asser tedmeaning of only, and that (4.2) is produced by thenon-asser ted  meaning of only.1.2 Requirements of a semantics forfocusing subjunctsWe desire a semantics for focusing subjuncts thatis composit ional (see Section 1.3), computation-ally practical, and amenable to a conventional,structured, near-first-order knowledge representa-tion such as frames.
It must cope with the se-mantic and syntactic problems of focusing subjunctsby being cross-categorial, being sensitive to in-tonation, and by distinguishing asserted and non-asserted meaning.
By cross-categorial semantics wemean one that can cope with syntactic variability inthe arguments of focusing subjuncts.We will demonstrate he following:?
Intonation has an effect on meaning.
A focusfeature is useful to mediate between intona-tional information and meaning.?
It is desirable to capture meaning in a multi-part semantic representation.?
An extended frame-based semantic representa-tion can be used in place of higher-order logicsto capture the meaning of focusing subjuncts.1.3 Syntactic and semantic frameworksIn this paper, we will use a compositionM, frame-based approach to semantics.
Focusing subjunctshave been thought difficult to fit into a composi-tional semantics because they change the meaning oftheir matrix sentences in ways that are not straight-forward.A composit ional semantics i characterized bythe following properties:?
Each word and well-formed syntactic phrase isrepresented by a distinct semantic object.?
The semantic representation of a syntacticphrase is a systematic function of the represen-tation of its constituent words and/or phrases.In a compositional semantics, the syntax drives thesemantics.
To each syntactic phrase constructionrule there corresponds a semantic rule that speci-ties how the semantic objects of the constituents are(systematically) combined or composed to obtain asemantic object for the phrase.
Proponents of com-positionM semantics argue that natural language it-self is for the most part compositional.
In addition,using a composition semantics in semantic interpre-tation has numerous computational advantages.The particular incarnation of a compositional se-mantics that serves as the semantic framework forthis work is the frame-based semantic representa-tion of Hirst's Absity system (Hirst, 1987, 1988).Absity's underlying representation f the world is aknowledge base consisting of frames.
A frame isa collection of stereotypical knowledge about sometopic or concept (Hirst, 1987, p. 12).
A frame isusuMly stored as a named structure having associ-ated with it a set of slots or roles that may be as-signed values or fillers.
Absity's semantic objectsbelong to the types in a frame representation lan-guage called Frail (Charniak, 1981).
Absity uses thefollowing types of semantic object:?
a frame name?
a slot name?
a frame determiner?
a slot-filler pair?
a frame description (i.e.
a frame with zero ormore slot-filler pairs)?
eiLher an instance or frame statement (atom orframe determiner with frame description)A frame determiner is a function that retrievesframes or adds them to the knowledge base.
A framedescription describes a frame in the knowledge base.The filler of a slot is either an atom, or it is an in-stance, specified by a frame statement, ofa frame inthe knowledge base.
In order to capture the mean-ing of sentences containing focusing subjuncts, wewill augment Absity's frame-representation languagewith two new semantic objects, to be described inSection 3.3.The notation Hirst uses for frames is illustrated inFigure 1, which is a frame statement translation ofthe sentence(7) Ross washed the dog with a new shampoo.The semantics we will outline does not depend onany particular syntactic framework or theory.
How-ever, we choose to use Generalized Phrase StructureGrammar (GPSG) (Gazdar et al, 1985), becausethis formalism uses a compositional semantics that55(a ?u (wash ?u(agent=(the ?x(person ?X (propername--Ross))))(patlent=(the ?y (dog ?y)))(instrument=(a ?z (shampoo ?z (age=new))))))Figure 1: An Absity frame statementresembles Montague grammar (Montague, 1973).
Acentral notion of GPSG that we will make use of isthat of the features of a syntactic phrase.
A feature isa piece of linguistic information, such as tense, num-ber, and bar level; it may be atom-valued or category-valued.1.4 Prev ious  researchThe groundwork for the analysis of focusing sub-juncts was laid by Horn (1969).
ttom describesonly (when modifying an NP) as a predicate tak-ing two arguments, "the term ix\] within its scope"and "some proposition \[Pz\] containing that term"(Horn, 1969, p. 99).
The meaning of the predicate isthen to presuppose that the proposition P is true ofz, and to assert hat x is the unique term of which Pis true: -,(~y)(y # z & Py).
Even takes the same ar-guments.
It is said to presuppose (qy)(y # x & Py)and to assert Px.
Horn requires a different formula-tion of the meaning of only when it modifies a VP.Since his formulation is flawed, we do not show ithere.Jackendoff's (1972, p. 242) analysis of even andonly employs asemantic marker F that is assumed tobe present in surface structure and associated witha node containing stress.
He calls the semantic ma-terial associated with constituents marked by F thefocus of a sentence.
Fie proposes a rule that statesthat even and "related words" are associated wi thfocus by having the focus in their range.
Differ-ences between the ranges of various focusing adverbsaccount for their different distributions (Jackendoff,1972, pp.
249-250).
For example:Range of  even: If even is directly dominated by anode X, then X and all nodes dominated by Xare in its range.Range of  only: If only is directly dominated by anode X, then X and all nodes that are bothdominated by X and to the right of only are inits range.That is, only cannot precede its focus (nor can just,which has the same range), but even can:(8) 1.
*(JOHN) only gave Mary a birthdaypresent (no one else did).2.
(JOHN) even gave Mary a birthdaypresent (and so did everyone else, butJohn was the person least expected to).We will employ several aspects of Rooth's (1985)domain  select ion theory .
A key feature of thetheory is that only takes the VP adjacent o it inS-structure as its argument (an extension of the the-ory allows only to take arguments other than VPs).Rooth describes technical reasons for this arrange-ment (1985, p. 45).
Among these is the fact thatfocusing subjuncts can draw attention to two (ormore) items that, syntactically, do not together con-stitute a well-formed phrase:(9) John only introduced (BILL) to (SUE).The prevailing linguistic theories allow a node (suchas a focusing subjunct) only one argument in thesyntactic or logical (function-argument) s ructuresof a sentence.According to Rooth, the asserted meaning of(10) John only \[vP introduced BILL to Sue\].is "if John has a property of the form 'introduce y toSue' then it is the property 'introduce Bill to Sue'"(Rooth, 1985, p. 44, p. 59).
Rooth's theory wouldproduce the same translation, shown in (11.2), forboth sentence (10) and sentence (11.1).
(11) 1.
John only introduced Bill to SUE.2.
VP\[\[P(john) & P 6 C\]--* P = ^ introduee'(bill, sue)\]P ranges over propositions, o (11.2) is a quantifica-tion over propositions.
C is bound 2 to the p-set ofthe VP of whichever sentence's meaning (11.2) is in-tended to capture.
This p-set is "a set of properties,which we think of as the set of relevant properties"(Rooth, 1985, p. 43).Different truth conditions for the two sentences(10) and (11.1) obtain because their VPs have dif-ferent p-sets: the computation of p-sets is sensitiveto intonational stress (actually to focus, which is sig-nalled by stress; see below).
The desired value for Cin the translation of (10) is the set of propositions ofthe form "introduce y to Sue", namely propositionssatisfying (12.1).
For the translation of (11.1), C isthe set of propositions of the form "introduce Bill toy", that is, those satisfying (12.2).
(12) 1.
AP3y\[P = ^ introdued(y, sue)\]2.
AP3y\[P = ^ introduee'(bill, y)\]These result in the final translations (13.1) and(13.2) respectively for sentences (10) and (11.1):(13) 1.
Vy\[introducd(john, y, sue) --+ y=bilO2.
Vy\[introduce' (john, bill, y) --+ y=sue\]2 The mechanism of this binding relies on the translation beinga formula of which (11.2) is a reasonable simplification; see(Rooth, 1985, p. 59).56The formula (13.1) corresponds to the gloss of themeaning of (10) given above.
(13.2) is to be inter-preted as meaning: "if John has a property of theform 'introduce Bill to y' then it is the property 'in-troduce Bill to Sue'".The p-set of a complete sentence is a set of "rel-evant propositions".
Rooth defines it recursively,from the p-sets of its constituents (Rooth, 1985,p.
14) (the "model" is a Montague-style formalmodel):(14) Let a be a constituent with translation a ~.
Thep-set of a is:1. if a bears the focus feature, the set of ob-jects in the model matching a ~ in type;2. if a is a non-focused non-complex phrase,the unit set {a'};3. if a is a non-focused complex phrase,the set of objects that can be obtainedby picking one element from each of thep-sets corresponding to the componentphrases of a, and applying the semanticrule for a to this sequence of elements.In other words, the p-set of a sentence consists essen-tially of all propositions that are "like" the propo-sition that it asserts, except that the focused con-stituent in the proposition is replaced by a variable.
3We will adopt Rooth's definition of the meaningof only: A sentence containing only that (withoutonly) has logical form a:(15) 1. asserts that any "contextually relevant"proposition P whose extension is true isthe proposition a;2. has a as part of its non.asserted meaning.
(Rooth, 1985, p. 120).Our analogous definition of even is this: A sentencecontaining even that (without even) has logical forma:(16) 1. asserts a;2. conveys the non-asserted inference thatthere are other "contextually relevant"propositions, besides a, that are true.2 Dev ices  used  to  so lve  the  prob lemsOur semantics (which is described in more detail byLyons (1989)) employs devices described in the fol-lowing sections.2.1 The  focus featureFollowing Jackendoff, we propose that focus is a bi-nary feature, similar to (say) gender and number,aThe notion that the meaning of only and even can be definedin terms of a base form (such as "John introduced y to Sue")was also noted by Kaxttunen and Peters (1979) and McCord(1982).that is either present or absent on every constituentat surface structure.
4 Focus is initially instantiatedonto the leaves of the tree that represent intona-tionally stressed words.
The only realization of thefocus feature that we accommodate is intonationalaccent; however, our theory can easily be extendedto allow for other overt realizations of focus, includ-ing other intonational effects (e.g.
(Hirschberg andPierrehumbert, 1986)).
Focus is optionally and non-deterministically percolated up the syntax tree, toany node from its rightmost daughter (rightmost be-cause stress manifests itself only at the end of thefocused constituent (Anderson, 1972)).
The non-determinism of the percolation of focus is responsiblefor ambiguity in the interpretation of sentences withfocusing subjuncts.
How far the focus feature per-colates up determines how wide a focus is attributedto the focusing subjunct:(17) 1.
John also read the book (from theLIBRARY) (as well as the one from thestore).2.
John also read (the book from theLIBRARY) (as well as the newspaper).3.
John also Iread the book from theLIBRARY) (as well as completing his as-signment).The ambiguous interpretations of a sentence with afocusing subjunct belong to an ordered set in whicheach reading has a wider focus for the focusing sub-junct than the previous one.2.2 Re levant  propos i t ionsOur semantics employs a computational nalogue ofRooth's p-sets for a frame representation.
Our p-set for a constituent is computed compositionally,along with the semantic representation, in tandemwith the application of the syntactic rule used tobuild the constituent.
The p-set turns out to be anobject in the frame representation that is like thesemantic assertion derived for the constituent, butlacking restrictive information associated with anyfocused components.2.3 Two-par t  semant icsIn addition to p-sets, two semantic expressions arecomputed for each constituent during the interpre-tation of a sentence.
One expression represents as-serted meaning, and the other, non-asserted mean-ing.4 This feature iswhat Jackendoffcalls the F marker, but is dif-ferent from what he calls "focus".
Note that we use the termfocus of a focusing subjunct to stand for a distinct con-cept: the item to which a focusing subjunct draws attentionto, or focuses.
This is the semantic material that correspondsto a stressed word or to a constituent containing one.572.4 Linguist ic featuresFocus is marked as a binary feature on all syntacticconstituents.
The semantic rules use this informa-tion when constructing semantic expressions for con-stituents.
Because the focus feature need not perco-late all the way up to the level of the constituentthat is adjacent to the focusing subjunct in the syn-tax tree, we have found it useful to employ a secondfeature, focus.in, that indicates whether or not anysub-phrase is focused.
The restriction that a focus-ing subjunct adjoins only to a phrase containing fo-cus is implemented by requiring the adjunct phraseto be (focus-in +).Range (see Section 1.4) is implemented astwo bi-nary features, range-right and range-left, that indi-cate whether or not a given focusing subjunct canadjoin to phrases to its right and left, respectively.
(Some words, like even, have both features.
)2.5 Sentential operatorsRooth applies his even and only operators to the logi-cal form of the constituent that is the syntactic sisterof the focusing subjunct.
So, for example, in the VP(18.1), only transforms the expression wash'(dog),which is the translation of the VP argument of only,into the A-expression (18.2).
(18) 1. only \[vp washed the (DOG)\]2.
AxVP\[\[VP & P e C'\]P = ^ wash'(x, dog)\]For each focusing subjunct, Rooth must define a sep-arate transformation foreach different semantic typeof phrase that it may take as an argument.
He de-fines a basic sentential operator for each focusingsubjunct, and then derives the other operators fromthese (Rooth, 1985, pp.
120-121).Our approach is to instead efine a single operatorfor each focusing subjunct, essentially Rooth's basicsentential operator.
This operator takes the seman-tic representation f a sentence as an argument andproduces another semantic representation f senten-tial type.
When sentential objects are not available,as in the interpretation f \[vp only VP\], we delay theapplication of the operator until such a point as fullydeveloped propositions, the semantic objects of sen-tenees, are available.
To do this, the grammar rules"percolate" focusing subjunct operators up the syn-tax tree to the S node.
Our grammar employs thefeature fs to carry this latent operator.
When theinterpretation f a sentence is otherwise completed,a final step is to apply any latent operators, produc-ing expressions for the sentence's asserted and non-asserted meanings from expressions for its assertionand its p-set.Several pieces of evidence motivate this approach:?
As Rooth observed, in order to define a family ofcross-categorial operators for (say) only, a basicoperator must be defined that operates on anexpression of sentential type.
The semantics offocusing subjuncts actually seems to take placeat the sentence l vel.Focusing subjuncts normally occur at most onceper sentence.
Even granting the acceptability ofsentences containing several focusing subjuncts,such sentences are clearly semantically compli-cated.The principal advantage of our approach is thatit constructs essentially the same final translationof a sentence as Rooth's, but avoids using the A-operator during the derivation of a semantic repre-sentation that does not itself contain a A-operator.This is desirable, as A-expressions would make theframe representation language l ss tractable.3 Deta i l s  o f  the  semant ics3.1 Semant ic  featuresThree semantic objects are computed for and at-tached to each syntactic onstituent, inparallel withthe syntactic processing.
The objects are of thetypes defined in an Absity-like frame representation.They are attached to a node as values of the fol-lowing features (an approach motivated by Shieber(1986)):Assert: The asserted meaning of the constituent, i scontribution to the sentence's asserted mean-ing.
The value is computed the same waythat a Montague-style grammar would con-struct a constituent's logical form from thoseof its daughters.
Figure 2 shows examples ofthe rules to compute this value.Presupp: The constituent's contribution to the sen-tence's non-asserted meaning.
For all rules butsentence rules, the presupp feature on the parentnode is undefined.
In order not to commit our-selves to the status of the non-asserted mean-ings of focusing subjuncts, we reserve this fea-ture for the non-asserted meanings introducedby focusing subjunct operators (see below).P-set: A prototype of the semantic objects in thenode's p-set.
All objects that match this objectare in the node's p-set.
The algorithm for com-puting p-sets distinguishes between two cases:Case 1: If the parent node X (being con-structed) is (focus +), its p-set is a variableof the same type as the assert object.Case 2: Otherwise, the p-set of X is con-structed from the p-set values of the con-stituent phrases in a manner exactly paral-leling the construction ofthe assert feature.58Syntax rule Semantic ruleS --* XP\[(assert (agent = a))\], S = S\[(assert (frame ~ (agent = 4) sf-pairs))\]VP\[(assert (frame fl sf-pairs))\]VP ---* V\[2 (assert (frame ?t~))\], VP = V\[(assert (frame ?a (slotfl = ~)))1NP\[obj (assert (slot~ = ?
))\]PP --* P\[38 (assert slota)\], PP = PP\[(assert (slots = fl))lNP\[(assert fi)\]Figure 2: Examples of semantic rules for the assert feature3.2 Application of  the  focus ing sub junctoperatorsThere is a syntactic rule whose sole purpose is tosupport of the application of a sentential operator:09) s H\[(fs 4)1S\[fs 4\] is specified as a non-initial category in thegrammar, if a ? "
- " .
Therefore, the rule (19) mustapply in the derivation of any well-formed sentencecontaining a focusing subjunct.
The correspondingsemantic rule (20) applies a focusing subjunct oper-ator to the semantic representation of the sentence.
(20) 1.
Input:S\[(assert a), (p-set ~/), (fs 7)\]2.
Output:?
If 7 = " - "  thenS\[(assert a), (p-set fl)\]?
elseS\[(assert oplv(t~ , fi)),(presupp op2,(tr, fl)),(p-set fl)\]where oplv and op2v are the sentential operators forthe focusing subjunct 7 (see below).3.3 The  sentent ia l  operatorsThe sentential operators for only and even are givenbelow.
(The one for too is the same as that for even,and those for the other focusing subjuncts are simi-lar.
)(21) 1. oplontu(A, P) = if P then A2.
op2only (A, P) = A3.
opl~,e,(A, P) = A4.
op2~ven( the ?x frame-descrA),(the ?y frame-descrP)= (anew ?y ?
?z (frame-descrP))The form if P then A is a directive to the underly-ing knowledge base to insert the rule that any framematching P is just the frame A, that is, A is theunique frame matching P. This directive is a f rameimpl icat ion.
It is similar in character to a framedeterminer (Hirst, 1987), in that it is a function thatmanipulates the underlying knowledge base.The form (anew ?y ~?X frame-descrP) is also anew type of entity in the semantics.
We treat it as aframe determiner.
It is a directive to the knowledgebase to retrieve or create a frame instance, ?y, thatmatches frame-descrP but is not the frame instanceidentified by the variable ?x.
As with the framedeterminer (the ?x), such a frame instance ?y shouldbe inserted if not already present in the knowledgebase.For example, the sentence (22.1) yields the ex-pression (22.2) as its assertion and (22.3) as itsnon-asserted meaning (other readings are possibleas well).
(22) 1.
Ross only washed the DOG.2.
if (wash ?x (agent=Ross))then(wash ?x (agent=Ross) (patient=dog)))3.
(the ?x (wash ?x(agent=Ross) (patient=dog)))The frame instance (22.3) captures the semantic on-tent of the sentence "Ross washed the dog".
Theframe implication (22.3) is to be interpreted as therule that any wash frame in the knowledge base hav-ing Ross as its agent must in addition have dog asits patient.A second example: sentence (23.1) yields assertion(23.2) and non-asserted meaning (23.3).
(23) 1.
Ross washed even the DOG.2.
(the ?x (wash ?x(agent=Ross) (patient=dog)))3.
(anew ?y ~?x (wash ?y (agent=Ross)))The expression (23.3) affirms the existence of a washinstance ?y having agent Ross but that is a distinctwashing from ?z in (23.2), which has dog as its pa-tient.4 The  imp lementat ionIDEO (Interpreter Designed for Even and Only) isa limited semantic interpreter that incorporates the59semantics for even and only described in Section 3.The implementation is in Edinburgh C-Prolog, run-ning under UNIX on a Sun-4 computer.
Because theauthors did not have access to a working versionof Frail (see Section 1.3), IDEO runs on top of atoy knowledge base, also implemented in C-Prolog,whose retrieval language is (unfortunately) a syntac-tic variant of Absity's.A sample session with IDEO is follows below.
Inthis trace, output generated by the program or typedby the user is shown in typewriter font.
As the ex-ample shows, IDEO accepts a sentence typed at thekeyboard and outputs four different hings.
Firstly,it echoes the sentence in its internal Prolog format.Secondly, the GPSG category obtained for the sen-tence, which incorporates a parse tree for the sen-tence, is displayed.
For the sake of readability, IDEOprints a simplified version of the category.
Then, itprints separately the semantic representation f thesentence, which consists of several of the feature-value pairs of the sentence category.
Lastly, it dis-plays a message about the success or failure of eachknowledge base function call resulting from process-ing the semantic representation f the sentence.
Ina question-and-answer system, these messages wouldbe replaced by generated English answers.Please enter a sentence, follo.ed by acarriage return, after the "I:" prompt.J: Ross only washed the :dog.The colon preceding the word dog tells IDEO thatthe word isintonationally stressed.>>> Sa~ the sentence:\ [ross.
only.
,ashed.
the.
s t ress(dog) .period\]>>> The category for  th is  sentence is :\[Omitted ue to space ~mitations.\]The significant piece of information in theGPSG category is that the noun phrase \[NP thestress(dog)\]  is (focus +), but the verb phrase thatcontains it is not.>>> The semantic representation is:assert(if frame(X, .ash) k slot(X, agent, ross)then frame(X, .ash)k slot(X, agent, ross)slot(X, patient, Y)k framedet(the.
Y, frame(Y, dog)))presupp(framedet(a, X,frame(X..ash) k slot(X, agent, ross)k slot(X, patient.
Y)k framedet(the, Y, frame(Y, dog))))p-set(framedet(a. X,frame(X, .ash) k slot(X, agent, ross)))fs(only)>>> OK?
noThis semantic representation corresponds to thereading in which the speaker means to assert thatRoss washed nothing else but the dog.
The userreplies no to the prompt OK?
to indicate that this isnot the reading he intends.>>> The category for this sentence is:\[Omitted ue to space limitations.\]This time, a parse is returned in which the feature(focus +) percolates up the parse tree to the entireverb phrase \[NP .ashed the stress(dog)\],>>> The semantic representation is:assert(if slot(X, agent, ross)then frame(X, .ash)k slot(X, agent, ross)k slot(X, patient, Y)k framedet(the, Y, frame(Y, dog)))presupp(framedet(a, X.frame(X, .ash) k slot(X, agent, ross)slot(X, patient, Y)k framedet(the, Y, frame(Y, dog))))p-set(framedet(a, X.slot(X, agent, ross)))fs(only)>>> OK?
yesThe user approves this semantic representation,which corresponds to the reading in which thespeaker asserts that Ross did nothing but wash thedog.>>> Retrieved frame "dogl"frame (dog1.
dog)>>> Found frame "washl"frame (wash1, .ash)slot(.ashl, agent, ross)slot(.ashl, patient, dogl)>>> Inserted rule "rulel"ifslot(X, agent, ross)thenX = .ashlThe knowledge base now is constrained by the ruleru le l .
This says that ira frame X satisfies the framedescription slot(X, agent, ross)( i .e,  its agent isross), then it must be the frame ,ash l  (a ,ashframe whose pat ient  slot is filled by dogl).605 ConclusionsThis paper summarizes work, details of which can befound in (Lyons, 1989).
The work represents a steptowards better understanding of focusing subjunctsand of compositional semantics in general.
The se-mantics we have proposed allows focusing subjunctsto be covered by a frame-based approach to semanticinterpretation, by virtue of its being compositional,computationally practical, able to differentiate be-tween asserted and non-asserted meaning, sensitiveto intonation, and eross-categorial.
We have foundthat:?
Focus and stress information can be used to ad-vantage in a semantic interpreter.?
The hypothesis that focus may be optionallypercolated to a parent node from a daughterexplains the scope ambiguities observed in theinterpretation of focusing subjuncts.?
Rooth's method of obtaining the translation ofa focusing subjunct by using p-sets to select"domains of quantification" can be adapted totranslating a sentence into a frame represents-tion.?
Treating focusing subjuncts as operators on sen-tential semantic forms makes this translationpossible.?
Semantically, focusing subjuncts are not justpassive objects for composition.
We have shownextensions to standard frame representationsthat are required for the translation of focus-ing subjuncts.AcknowledgementsBoth authors acknowledge the support of the NaturalSciences and Engineering Research Council of Canada.We are also grateful to Diane Horton, Brendan Gillon,Barb Brunson, and Mark Hyan for discussions, com-ments on earlier drafts, and general encouragement.ReferencesAnderson, Stephen R. (1972).
How to get even.
Lan.guage, 48:893-906.Charniak, Eugene (1981).
A common representation forproblem-solving and language-comprehension infor-mation.
Artificial Intelligence, 16(3):225-255.
Alsopublished as technical report CS-59, Department ofComputer Science, Brown University, July 1980.Gazdar, Gerald, Klein, Ewan, Pullum, Geoffrey K., andSag, Ivan (1985).
Generalized Phrase StructureGrammar.
Harvard University Press.Hirschberg, Julia and Pierrehumbert, Janet (1986).
Theintonational structuring of discourse.
In 24 th An-nual Meeting of the Association for ComputationalLinguistics, Proceedings of the Conference.
pages136-143.Hirst, Graeme (1987).
Semantic Interpretation and theResolution of Ambiguity.
Cambridge UniversityPre88.Hirst, Graeme (1988).
Semantic interpretation and am-biguity.
Artificial Intelligence, 34(2):131-177.Horn, Laurence R. (1969).
A presuppositional naly-sis of only and even.
In Binnick, Robert I., Davi-son, Alice, Green, Georgia, and Morgan, Jerry, edi-tors, Papers from the Fifth Regional Meeting of theChicago Linguistics Society.
Chicago Linguistic So-ciety, pages 98-107.Jackendoff, Ray S. (1972).
Semantic Interpretation inGenerative Grammar.
The MIT Press.Karttunen, Lanri and Peters, Stanley (1979).
Conven-tional implicature.
In Oh, Choon-Kyu and Din-neen, David A., editors, Presupposition, volume 11of Syntaz and Semantics.
Academic Press, pages 1-56.Lyons, Dan (1989).
A computational semantics for fo-cusing subjuncts.
Master's thesis, Department ofComputer Science, University of Toronto.
Alsopublished as technical report CSRI-234.McCord, Michael C. (1982).
Using slots and modifiersin logic grammars for natural anguage.
ArtificialIntelligence, 18:327-367.Montague, Richard (1973).
The proper treatmentof quantification in ordinary English.
In Hin-tiklm, Kaarlo Jaakko Juhani, Moravcsik, JuliusMatthew Emil, and Suppes, Patrick Colonel, edi-tors, Approaches to Natural Language: Proceedingsof the 1970 Stanford workshop on grammar and se-mantics.
D. Reidel, pages 221-242.
Also in Thoma~son, Richmond Hunt (ed.
), Formal philosophy: Se-lected papers of Richard Montague.
Yale UniversityPress (1974): 247-270.Quirk, Randolph, Greenbaum, Sidney, Leech, Geoffrey,and Svartvik, Jan (1965).
A Comprehensive Gram-mar of the English Language.
Longman.Rooth, Mats Edward (1985).
Association with Focus.PhD thesis, Department of Linguistics, Universityof Massachusets.Shieber, Stuart M. (1986).
An Introduction toUnification-Based Approaches to Grammar.
Cen-ter for the Study of Language and Information.61
