Empirical Study of Predictive Powers of Simple AttachmentSchemes for Post-modifier Prepositional PhrasesGreg Whi t temore  Kathleen FerraraElectronic Data  Systems Corp. Texas A&~M University5951 Jefferson Street N.E.Albuquerque, NM 87109-3432Hans BrunnerUS West Advanced Technologies6 June 1990AbstractThis empirical study attempts to find answers tothe question of how a natural language (henceforthNL) system could resolve attachment of preposi-tional phrases (henceforth PPs) by examining nat-urally occurring PP attachments in typed dialogue.Examination i cludes testing predictive powers ofexisting attachment theories against he data.
Theresult of this effort will be an algorithm for inter-preting PP attachment.Introduct ionDifficulty in resolving structural ambiguity in-volving PPs arises because of the great variety ofsyntactic structures which PPs can modify andthe varying distances PPs may be from the con-stituents with which they are associated.
Simpleschemes to resolve attachments utilize informationdrawn from reported tendencies in the human pars-ing mechanism, such as the preference for PPs toattach to constituents that immediately precedethem.
It is always tempting to utilize such schemesin computer NL processors because they provideclear models for resolution that are both easy andcheap (in terms of steps involved) to implement.The problem with these schemes i  that they caneasily be made to fail by manipulating parametersthat they 'know' nothing about, such as semantics,context, and intonation.
Clearly, more elaborateschemes for attachment resolution are needed, butwhat these schemes hould contain and how theyshould be implemented remain open.This study attempts to find answers to the ques-tion of how a computer program should resolve at-tachment by examining naturally occurring PP at-tachments in a typed dialogue domain drawn froma study by Brunner, Whittemore, Ferrara, and Hsu(1989).
Various previously developed theories ofPP attachment are tested against he data to seehow well they predict correct attachments of PPsin the typed dialogues.
The result of this effortwill be a hypothesis of attachment resolution thatseems to fit the data.Empirical overviewThe methods for generating the 13 naturally oc-curring dialogues are described in Brunner, et al(1989).
In essence, this study employed a "wiz-ard of Oz" paradigm in which a human confeder-ate - -  the Wizard - simulates an advanced com-puter system engaged in written/interactive dia-logue with the experimental participant.
Partici-pants of the study were each asked to plan a spe-cific travel agenda of their choice with informationobtained solely by typing natural anguage mes-sages and requests through a VT220 terminal toa human-assisted travel information system locatedin a separate room.
In response to this, the Wizard,who had access to both computerized and hard-copy travel data, was instructed to engage in con-structive and free-form dialogue with the partici-pant in order to best obtain the reservations andflight information required by them.
Each dialoguetook one and a half hours to complete, allowingenough time for about 70 sentences per dialogue23for a total of 910 sentences.In another study, Whittemore, Ferrara, andBrunner (1989) quantify the occurrence of PPs inthe 13 dialogues in terms of the syntactic types towhich they attach and the overall syntactic environ-ments in which they appear.
Data is presented interms of Tension Sites to illustrate possible syntac-tic attachment interpretations and actual interpre-tations that occurred.
For instance in the sentenceJohn eats his bananas in his backyard, potential at-tachment ambiguity lies in the fact that the PP inhis backyard can attach to the noun phrase objecthis bananas or to the verb eats.
Such positions werereferred to as Tension Sites.
All such Tension Sitesfor sentences with PPs were recorded along withactual attachments.
Some instances were simpleas in the example above with only a minimum ofTension Sites, while others were quite involved andhad up to seven Tension Sites in which a verb andnp-object along with the objects of five other prepo-sitions were available as attachment sites.
Of the910 sentences in the 13 dialogues, 745 had instancesof potential ambiguity in attachment.
Much of theanalysis presented in this paper is drawn from theWhittemore, et al study.Theor ies  of  P re ferenc lng  for Pos t -mod i f ie rPP  At tachmentSeveral of the PP attachment schemes availablein the literature were used as a backdrop for ex-amining attachment tendencies in the typed dia-logues.
These predictors (listed below) were basi-cally employed as individual templates which wereapplied against the data.
Percentages of correctpredictability were recorded and some investigationinto their failures was made.
Only attachments onouns  and verbs  were made in this study, givinga corpus of 724 examples.The attachment predictors tested were:RIGHT ASSOCIATION (RA)  - the tendency forconstituents to associate with adjacent items totheir right (Kimball 1973), also known as low at-tachment.
Late Closure (Frazier 1979) is a similarnotion.MINIMAL ATTACHMENT (MA) - the tendency toattach in a manner in which the least number ofsyntactic rules are employed (Frazier 1979).LEXICAL PREFERENCE VIA VERBS (LP )  - thetendency for PPs to attach to verbs that have apreference for them (Ford, Bresnan, and Kaplan1982).LEXICAL PREFERENCE VIA NOUNS (LP) - is s im-i lar to verb LP, but PPs attach to nouns that mayhave a preference for them as discussed briefly illRappaport (1983).LEXICAL PREFERENCE VIA PREPOSITIONS (LP)- is similar to verb and noun LP, but prepositionsthemselves may have a tendency to seek out cer-tain kinds of constructions.
For instance, temporalPPs may have a preference for attaching to enti-ties such as events that have temporal qualities tothem.
Prepositions acting as functors like this arementioned in Wilks, Huang, and FaNs (1985).REFERENTIAL SUCCESS (P~S) - dictates that onefirst checks to see if there are any 'like' entities illthe discourse, namely ones that have similar PPsas modifiers.
If there are matches, then attachmenttakes on the same look as the antecedent.
Thereare also notions of presupposition i  the theory thatmake predictions about definite, indefinite, generic,and generic plural noun phrases (Crain and Steed-man 1984).
In a streamlined version of the theory(Hirst 1987), definite noun phrases require the re-cipient of discourse to try to make a connectionto existing knowledge.
Because of this added ef-fort in which one must search his discourse space,it has been predicted that attachment to a definitenoun phrase would be less preferred.
Other nounphrases - -  indefinites, generics, and bare plurals- -  along with verbs are preferred over definites asattachment sites since they supposedly require lesssearch over discourse space.Success o f  P re ferenc ing  Schemes Against  theDataThe 'effect' that each of the preferencing schemesreviewed above has on the attachment of the post-modifiers is explored in the remaining sections.
Notevery possible PP attachment found in the corpusis examined.
An attempt is made to explain onlyattachments o nouns and verbs (thus those madeto adverbs, adjectives, prepositions themselves, orwithin idiomatic expressions are excluded).RIGHT ASSOCIATIONFrom the data evident in the dialogues it can beseen that RA seems to have a fairly strong influ-ence within the typed discourse domain of travel.As noted in the Tension Site tabulations (Whitte-more, et al), low attachment was observed 55% ofthe time.
However, its almost equally high failure24rate of 45% dictates that RA by itself is not a sat-isfactory scheme for deciding PP attachments.MINIMAL ATTACHMENTThe success of MA in the attachment of PPs inthe 13 dialogues is rather poor.
Out of 488 in-stances in which there was an opportunity for MAto take a role, only 177 examples (or 36%) behavedaccording to a strict notion of MA.
By a strictnotion we mean that whenever possible, the leastnumber of rules are applied.REFERENTIAL  SUCCESS AND PRESUPPOSIT IONUsing only definite NPs  as a guide for indicat-ing that a noun phrase is being used to refer tosome antecedent, strict notions of RS failed miser-ably -- out of 101 definite noun phrases only 12instances of exact match with some antecedent oc-curred.
There were also 17 cases in which somesubsequent phrase was used to 'restrict' or referto some semantic subset of an antecedent.
Therewas one additional case in which a subsequent nounphrase was a rephrasing of an antecedent.
For theremaining 71 instances, no antecedent could be lo-cated within the text.
Altogether there were only30 out of 101 that could be deemed successful.
Itshould also be noted that for a NL understandingsystem to correctly interpret just these few exam-ples much machinery would be required to 'under-stand' when something was a 'rephrasing' or 're-striction' of an antecedent.The accompanying notion of presupposition, inwhich PP attachment to definite NPs is avoidedwhen no such NP+PP already exists in the dis-course, would, numerically, need to be regardedas a semi-successful predictor of attachment site.Disregarding the 30 cases in which an antecedentfor an NP was found in the discourses, one wouldhave to say that avoiding attachment to NP wassuccessful since for the remaining 694 instances(724 total minus the 30 cases above) correct de-cision attachment was made to avoid attachmentto definite NPs 623 times (694 cases minus the 71cases of non-anaphoric NP+PPs)  for a 90% suc-cess rate.
However ,  predicting correct  attach-ment beyond avoiding definite NPs was not suc-cessfully performed.
It is not enough to just try toavoid attaching to definite NPs; there must also bea way of specifying how PPs are to link up withother non-definites and verbs.
In the study, Hirst's(1987) modified version was used in which one at-taches to the last occurring non-definite or verb ina RA fashion.
Employing a combined presupposi-t ion/RA approach, the success is still low - -  only52% (or 362 attachments) are correctly predicted.VERB LEX ICAL  PREFERENCINGTo determine the success of LP  of verbs in the13 travel dialogues, each verb used within the dia-logues was examined for its potential for LP.
Someverbs were determined to have a very strong LPsuch as some two part verbs like involved in orverbs like live that have an obviously strong pref-erence for locative PPs.
The rest were determinedto be LP verbs through a consensus of 3 individu-als, and when possible, further substantiated to beLP verbs through the aid of two sources on verbsand their complements - A COMPLETE GRAM-MAR OF ENGLISH by Quirk, Greenbaum, Leech,and Svartvik (1972) and VALENCY OF VERBSby Allerton (1982).
1After a complete list of the verbs was derived,the number of times that the verbs appeared withsought-after prepositions was determined and tab-ulated.
Next, the success of the LP verbs was de-termined by quantifying the times that they failedversus the times they succeeded.
Reasons for fail-ure in LP verbs were then sought out through allanalysis of the sentences in which LP verbs and pos-sible PPs that could go with LP verbs were present,but the two were not associated with each other.A synopsis of the findings on verb LP is below.The main point to be gleaned from this synopsisis that there seem to be a fairly large number ofPP  attachments that could be construed to be theresult of verb LP  -- 228 out of 724 total.
This issignificant because it indicates that the incorpora-tion of an accurate LP  scheme could be beneficialin a PP  attachment resolution scheme.
2verb lexical preferencing:228 instances of verb LP1There have been several methods uggested in the liter-ature for determining lexical preferencing, but it was felt atthe time that their predictive powers were somewhat unreli-able, though the authors could very well be wrong.
Readersshould refer to chapter one in Somers (1987) for a good dis-cussion of various preference-determining schemes.2Closer scrutiny of the different LP verbs also made itapparent hat the number of domain-specific LP verbs iscomparatively quite large.
For instance, the verbs begin,book, change, depart, fly, get, and leave, to name some, allhave senses that seemed particular to the travel domain.2547 different verbsexamples:arranged through, arrive at,begin from, fly from/to, start atThe tabulations hown above are only for correctattachments in which it could be decided that aparticular LP verb did attach to a PP.
There werealso 21 LP verbs that failed to link up with existingPPs that they normally seek.Verb-LP alone failed in 18 of the 21 instances,seemingly because of the presence of multiple LPverbs.
In (1) is an example from the dialogues.(I).
Before deciding that I want to knowthe flight times for United AirLines LEAVING from Austin and GOINGTO JFK in New York on August 30.The verb LEAVE was determined tohave a preference for the prepo-sition TO, as was the verb GO.However, in the example TOattaches only to GOTo account for the attachments some added ma-chinery is needed.
It was earlier demonstrated thatthere was a 54% tendency for attachment of PPs tobe to the most immediate low constituent to theirleft, or Right Association - RA.
RA has also beenshown in the work of Wilks et al (1985) and Fra-zier (1979) to be beneficial when choosing betweentwo LP verbs.
They predict that when multiple LPverbs appear a sought after PP attaches to the lastLP verb that precedes it.In the travel domain in this study, with a combi-nation of RA and verb LP it was found that in everycase in which 2 verbs were vying for the same PP at-tachment, attachment was made to the lower verb.With this additional machinery all but 3 of the in-correct attachments in sentences with LP verbs canbe explained.In the 3 remaining instances in which attach-ment goes against the notion of LP, attachmentswere made to nouns.
In (2) is one of the instances.In (2), show was deemed as normally calling for aPP headed by lo, but attachment went to the NPobject following the verb.
Under a strict notionof verb LP there is no provision to allow the at-tachment of PPs to nouns following LP verbs.
Thepossibility of nouns having LP characteristics willbe explored in the next section, and the examplebelow should be re-examined in light of the datathere.(2).
I need to know would you like forme to SHOW you some FLIGHTschedules to Dublin?NOUN LP FOR PPSThe methodology for exploring noun LP was sim-ilar to that of verb LP.
Shown below are the overallresults for noun LP.
As indicated, the number ofPPs attaching to LP nouns is again comparativelyquite large, almost as large as the number of at-tachments to LP verbs - -  183 versus 228.
Thus,as is the case for LP verbs, noun LP seems to be asignificant means by which PP attachments can bepredicted.
3noun lexical preferencing183 instances of noun LP24 different ip nounsexamples:(air)fare(s) from/to, bus to ,carrier from/to, and travel(ing) by,Under the LP noun analysis, all instances inwhich there was a single LP noun were correctlyaccounted for by a noun LP scheme.
Under a LPnoun analysis PPs that were at a proximal, suchas (3), or great distance, such as (4), were able tocorrectly link up with appropriate nouns.(3).
Would you like for me to show yousome FLIGHTS TO Dublin?(4).
What is the round trip FAKE forAer Lingus and for BritishAirlines FROM JFK on August 30TO Dublin returning Sept 217There were three sentences in which multiple LPwords appeared in which there was first an LPnoun, and later either another LP noun or an LPverb.
With these, using the same RA analysisthat was employed for LP words, correct predic-tions about attachment can be made - when any3Again, as with the LP verbs, there are many nouns thatseem to have LP for the travel domain.
The nouns bus,carrier, ehan#e, connectians, dollars, airfare, flights, oneway, travel, and roundtrip all seem to have senses particulaa"to the domain at hand.26two LP words that seek the same PP are present,no matter if they are nouns or verbs, attachment ismade to the latter LP word.
For instance, sentence(5) has two LP nouns, tr/p and flight, both of whichwere deemed to have a preference for the singly oc-curring PP headed by from.
By enforcing RA, inwhich the attachment of the from PP is made tothe last occurring and lowest LP noun (in this caseflight), the correct interpretation can be derived.(5).
Then what you would rather have isa round TRIP to London) with a sepa-rate FLIGHT from London to Dublin.Similarly, when deriving interpretations in whichLP verbs are followed by LP nouns, RA between thecompeting LP words makes the correct interpreta-tion.
Thus in the 3 sentences in which LP verbs arefollowed by LP nouns, and LP verbs and nouns pre-fer the same PPs, RA attachment is favored withattachment to the three last occurring LP nouns.The combined noun and verb LP scheme is:If an LP verb or LP noun is present,apply verb or noun LP.If two LP verbs or nouns are presentthat seek the same PP use the notionof RA and attach the PP to the lastword that seeks it.MODIFYIN~ PPS (OR 1"1" L1")The verb and noun LP schemes demonstratedabove were successful but only for the cases inwhich LP verbs and nouns appeared.
Excludingthe 411 PPs that seemed to be accounted for viaLP, there still remain to be explained 313 PPs, 43%of the cases.Since for the remaining PPs, the predominantgeneral preference schemes were either not appro-priate (verb LP, noun LP, or RS) or shown not to bepowerful enough predictors by themselves (RA andMA), the PPs were examined in terms of the func-tions they served in hopes that some generalitiesamongst hem would become evident.
This provedto be a promising exercise since most of the PPswere found to belong to two function types, tem-pora l  and locat ive  indicators.
Of the remainingPPs, 189 (60% of the remaining) were temporal, 90(28%) were locative, and 34 (12%) were of a mixedvariety.
Some examples of these are provided in(0).(6).
TEMPORAL.
Brit ish Airlines has afl ight that leaves AT 12:30.LOCATIVE.
Could you suggest a fewhotels in a moderate price rangeIN a nice part of London?OTHER/MIXED.
Please book me onthese flights WITH an aisle seat.For the PPs involved in LP, it could be arguedthat their attachment is determined by the near ne-cessity that some argument position for a LP headbe filled.
With the remaining PPs, there seemed tobe something else required in order to make theirattachment.
Instead of having something look forthe PPs, it appeared that there needed to be a wayby which the PPs could serve as functors in whichthey seek out arguments (a notion also defended illBresnan, 1982).
The items to which the temporaland locative PPs attach are ones that have sometemporal or locative quality to them.For temporals, attachment sites are either ac-tions that can occur at some particular time orsome state that must last for some period of time.In the type-written dialogues in the travel domain,the combination of leftward search for a temporal-accepting noun or verb and RA proved to be suc-cessful.
With a combined PP LP /RA algorithm inwhich temporal-PPs look for the first NP or VP totheir left that has a temporal quality, the attach-ment of temporal-PPs was successfully predicted inall but one of the 81 instances.For locative-PP modifiers, using the same schemeas was used for temporal-PP modifiers in which af-ter noun and verb LP fail a search is performedfor the last locative-accepting item to the left, pre-dictability of attachment of locative-PPs was againalmost 100%.
4The resulting preferencing scheme for temporal-locative-PP LP is:- MUST be ordered after noun and verb  LP- If  there  is a locative PP, at tach  tothe  most adjacent const i tuent  to the4Actually, out of the 90 instances of locative PPs  (thisexcludes those PPs  that  are called for by LP words) 8 re-quire further elaboration.
Examples  of further elaborationare permit t ing  apping out of complex NPs  so that  PPs  canat tach to their 'extracted'  elements as in (a) and havingmechanisms to derive compound nouns  and adject ive/nouncombinations as in (b).a.
Which airport do you want to fly to *GAP*  in Paris?b.
Provide DEPARTURE T IMES fi'om Dublin o,~9/20/86 to Boston with ARRIVAL T IMES in Boston.27left that has a head with a locativequality.- If there is a temporal PP, attach tothe most adjacent constituent tothe left that has a head with atemporal quality.added notes:Must be able to link up withEXTRACTED elements.Characteristics of EXTRACTED elementsmust be ~ssociated with their gapsbefore linking locative PPs isattempted.Must first link any temporal/locativequalities of modifying adjectives tothe modified head.OTHER PP MODIFIERSThe remaining PP modifiers, those that are prob-ably not sought after by an LP verb or noun and donot belong to the class of temporal-PPs or locative-PPs, were treated together.
The reason for thisparticular grouping was that there were a num-ber of functions evident in some PPs that occurredvery infrequently and since one of the major fociof the study was to try to find general means ofdeciding attachment of PPs, individualization ofthese PPs was, at first, discounted.
In some ofthe prior attachment schemes, there were some el-ements that were given the power to seek out someother constituent (e.g.
LP verb sought out cer-tain case types presented in particular PPs andtemporal PPs sought out temporal-bearing ounsor verbs).
Attempting to use LP with the variedo ther  group was not possible since no one functiontype (e.g.
such as temporality) and no single pref-erence characteristic was evident.
Other schemeswere necessary for this group.What proved to be succesful was the Hirst (1987)modified version of presupposition i  which attach-ment to definites is generally avoided.
Adding thenotion of RA, one can also decide between equallyweighted non-definites and verbs when both arepresent.The combined presupposition-RA algorithm isexpressed below.
When coming upon a PP thatwas of the o ther  type, an attachment is made tothe most recent verb or non-definite noun in a RAfashion.Avoid attachment to definite NPs andattach to most recently occurringverb or non-definite NP to the left.As shown below under this scheme, correct pre-diction was made 100% of the time for the non-definite+verb grouping.
However, when examiningthe success of attachment with the definite NPs,the rate of successful prediction was much lower.In 13 instances, avoiding attachment to definiteNPs was the correct thing to do, but 7 times itwas not, resulting in a 65% success rate.
Thus ifone permits the RA+non-definite noun preferenc-ing scheme, the only items needing further expla-nation are the definite NPs.of correct predictions of attaching"other" PPs to last occurring avail-able verb or non-definite noun tothe left I00~of correct prediction to avoidattachment to definite NPs.
65XWith the limited group of 7 definite NPs (thesewere the remaining, unresolved efinite NPs), itwas easy to identify a single class to which the con-flicting NPs belonged.
All the nouns but one 5 thatcould be associated with PPs were ones that couldbe used in partitive expressions.
Partitive nounscan be separated out from other nouns as thosenoun expressions that denote a kind or quantityand are typically followed by the preposition of.
In(6) are two examples from the dialogues.
(6) a. the legs of your trip.b.
the size of the hotelThe algorithm for the o ther  group is:Check to see if preceding lowest consti-tuent is a definite NP and part of apartitive expression,If it is, attach the PP to the precedingdefinite NP,Otherwise, attach to the most recentlyoccurring verb or non-definite NP.5The sole exception was with the noun \]eeling in the ex-pression the \]eeling o\] the community.
It is highly probablethat this is an idiomatic noun phrase and should be enteredin an idiomatic lexicon.28Overa l l  A lgor i thmAs laid out below after some preliminary tasksare performed, namely associating nouns with theiradjectives and extracted items with their gaps, thefirst preference to apply is noun and verb LP.
Ifnoun and verb LP fails, the two-stepped tempo-ral/locative modifer preference can step in and per-form attachments of which it is capable.
When allelse fails, the o ther  modifier routine finishes offanything left over.Associate adjectives with locative (andpossibly temporal) qualities to thenouns they modify.Associate extracted items with theirrespective 'gaps.
'If an LP verb or LP noun is present,apply verb or noun LP.If two LP verbs or nouns are presentthat seek the same PP, use the notionof RA and attach the PP to the lastword that seeks it.Otherwise, if a temporal PP is present,attach it to the most adjacent consti-tuent to the left whose head containsa temporal quality.Otherwise, if a locative PP is present,attach it to the most adjacent consti-tuent to the left whose head containsa locative quality.Otherwise, if an OTHER modifier (not atemporal or a locative) is presentand if the immediately precedingelement is a definite NP that couldbe part of a partitive expression,then a t tach  the PP to  the NP,Otherwise attach to the last occurringverb or non-definite NP.Conclus ionThe study indicates that there seems to be away of predicting PP  attachment in the typed in-teractive mode of communication by fairly sim-ple means.
By using LP for nouns, verbs andprepositions (temporal and locative PPs seek outtemporal- or locative-accepting elements) and avariation on the Crain and Steedman notion ofpresupposition, attachments are essentially alwayspredictable.Correct interpretation of the 724 instances it~which there existed structural ambiguity in the at-tachment of PPs to nouns or verbs occurred as fol-lows:Verb LP 228 instancesNoun LP 183 instancesTemporal prep.
LP 189 instancesLocative prep.
LP 90 instancesOther modifiers 34 instances(presupposition+ RA):added note - two items were notaccounted for:--- one seemed to be an idiomaticexpression--- one may possibly have beencontextually relatedRA played a role within each preferencing schemeas did a weak notion of plausibility.
RA was usedas the arbitrator whenever there remained an intra-conflict in a preferencing algorithm (and sometimeswhen there was inter-conflict between schemes).The use of plausibility to talk about relationshipsbetween verbs or nouns and associated PPs wasthought to be a necessary notion in that simplesearches for only prepositions were deemed to betoo weak of a notion.
When verb or noun LP wasat work, nouns and verbs sought out PPs (as op-posed to single prepositions) that as a whole hadsome attribute(s) necessary to fulfill some semanticrequirements.
Sometimes PPs also had to be con-cluded to be of a particular type in order to searchout a unique kind of noun or verb.
Apparently, PPLexical Preferencing allowed PPs that were tempo-ral or locative in nature to look for nouns and verbsthat bore temporal or locative characteristics, re-spectively.
Referential Success in its pure sense wasa poor predictor of attachments.
However, the re-lated notions of presupposition regarding definites,indefinites, etc.
were good predictors of attachmentfor a small number of PPs.Finally, a more cognitive finding resulting fromthe study was the great predictability of attach-ment, suggesting that there is something about thetyped interactive mode of communication that coil-strains the possibilities on attachment such thatattachment always goes with the unmarked ce, sc.There are at least three pressures that may helpto make these constraints come about.
One is the29lack of the spoken element which carries with itintonation patterns and variations in pausing thatcan influence the ways that one parses.
One mustrely on only the cues available by written meansto aid in disambiguating attachments.
Secondly,the added comparative slowness at which interlocu-tors type and the resulting tendency to leave outunnecessary punctuation marks often useful in dis-ambiguating text makes yet a further constrainedsubset.
Thirdly, a speaker may be aware of thetime lag (hence taxation on memory) that existsbetween typing some modified element and its as-sociated PP.
The lag may have an effect on howsuch pairs are presented.
Prominent ways of high-lighting the links may depend more on notions uchas LP or RA that might not be needed as much inother modes of communication.
These factors to-gether may make it necessary for participants intyped interactive communication to rely on a set ofdefault structures that each can cue on easily.A cknowledgementsWe wish to thank Joyce Conner for her timeand energy spent in collecting and analyzing thedata, Melissa Macpherson for her insights into thenotions presented in the paper, and Laurie Whit-temore and Jim Barnett for their editing efforts.Also, much of the work on this paper was car-ried out when Greg Whittemore and Kathy Ferrarawere employees of MCC, and thanks goes to MCCpersonnel, particularly Elaine Rich, who made itpossible for the study to be performed.References\[1\] Allerton, D. 1982.
VALENCY AND THE EN-GLISH VERB.
London: Academic Press.\[2\] Brunner, H., Whittemore, G., Ferrara, K., Hsu,J., 1988.
An assessment of written/interactivedialogue for information retrieval applications.
(MCC Technical Report #ACT-HI-245-89).\[3\] Crain, S. and Steedman, M. 1984.
On not be-ing led up the garden path: the use of contextby the psychological syntax processor.
In Dowty,D., Karttunen, L., and Zwicky, A.
(eds.).
NATU-RAL LANGUAGE PROCESSING.
Cambridge:Cambridge University Press.\[4\] Ford, M., Bresnan, J., and Kaplan, R. 1982.
Acompetence based theory of syntactic losure, inBresnan, J.
(ed.).
THE MENTAL REPRESEN-TATION OF GRAMMATICAL RELATIONS.Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.\[5\] Frazier, L. 1979.
On Comprehending Sentences:Syntactic parsing strategies.
Ph.D. thesis, Uni-versity of Massachusetts.\[6\] Hirst, G. 1987.
SEMANTIC INTERPRETA-TION AND THE RESOLUTION OF AMBIGU-ITY.
Cambridge: Cambridge University Press.\[7\] Kimball, J.
1973.
Seven principles of surfacestructure parsing in natural language.
COGNI-TION 2(1), 1973, 15-47.\[8\] Quirk.
R., Greenbaum, S., Leech.
G., andSvartvik, J.
1972.
COMPREHENSIVE GRAM-MAR OF THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE.
Lon-don: Longman.\[9\] Rappaport, M. 1983.
On the nature of derivednominals.
In Levin, L., Rappaport, M., Zae-man, A.
(eds.)
PAPERS IN LEXICAL FUNC-TIONAL GRAMMAR.
Indiana University Lin-guistics Club.\[10\] Somers, H. 1987.
VALENCY AND CASEIN COMPUTATIONAL LINGUISTICS.
InMichaelson, S. and Wilks, Y.
(eds.)
VOL.
3 ofEDINBURG INFORMATION TECHNOLOGYSERIES.
Great Britain: Edinburg UniversityPress.\[11\] Whittemore, G., Ferrara, K., and Brunner,H.
1989.
Post-modifier prepositional phrase am-biguity in written interactive dialogues.
MCCTechnical Report #ACT-HI-247-89.\[12\] Wilks, Y., Huang, X., and Fass, D. 1985.
Syn-tax, preference, and right attachment.
PROC.IJCAI-85, Aug. 18-23, Los Angeles, CA, pgs.779-784.30
