DISAMBIGUATING AND INTERPRETING VERB DEFINITIONSYael RavinIBM T.J. Watson Research CenterYorktown Heights, New York 10598e-mail:Yael@ibm.comABSTRACTTo achieve our goal of building a compre-hensive lexical database out of various on-lineresources, it is necessary to interpret anddisambiguate he information found in theseresources.
In this paper we describe aDisambiguation Module which analyzes thecontent of dictionary dcf'mitions, in particular,definitions of the form to VERB with NP".We discuss the semantic relations holding be-tween the head and the prepositional phrase insuch structures, as wellas our heuristics foridentifying these relations and fordisambiguating the senses of the words in-volved.
We present some results obtained bythe Disambiguation Module and evaluate itsrate of success as compared with results ob-tained from human judgements.INTRODUCTIONThe goal of the Lexical Systems Group atIBM's Watson Research Center is to createCOMPLEX, "a lexical knowledge base inwhich word senses are identified, endowedwith appropriate lexical haforrn, ation andproperly related to one another" (Byrd 1989).Information for COMPLEX is derived frommultiple lexical sources o senses in one sourceneed to be related to appropriate senses in theother sources.
Similarly, the senses of def'mingwords need to be disambiguated relative to thesenses supplied for them by the varioussources.
(See Klavans et al 1990.
)Sense-disambiguation of the words foundin dictionary entries can be viewed as a sub-problem of sense-disambiguation f textcorpora in general, since dictionaries are largecorpora of phrases and sentences exhibiting avariety of ambiguities, uch as unresolved ?ro-nominal references, attachment ambigutties,and ellipsis.
The resolution of these ambiguityproblems in the context of dictionary defi-nitions would directly benefit heir resolutionin other types of text.
In order to solve the~roblem of lexical ambiguity in dictionary de-fruitions, we are investigating how to auto-maticaUy analyze the semantics of thesedefinitions and identify the relations holdingbetween genus and differentia.
This paperconcentrates on one aspect of the task - thesemantics of one class of verb definitions.I.
DISAMBIGUATING DEFINITIONSWe have chosen to concentrate initially ondefinitions of the tbrm 'to VERB with NW inWebster's 7th New Collegiate Dictionary(Merriam 1963; henceforth W7).Disambiguating these definitions consists ofidentifying the appropriate sense of 'with(that is, the type of semantic relation linkingthe VERB to the NP) and choosing, if possi-ble, the appropriate senses of the VERB andthe NP-head from among "all their W7 senses.For example, the dis ambiguation of the defi-nition of angle(3,vi, l), to fish with a hook",determines that the relation between fish andhook is use of instrument.
1 It also determinesthat the intended sense of fish is (vi, l)-"to at-tempt o catch fish and the intended sense ofcha?~c~fi~ InAo)idag, urved pr l l~;t  im~re-/m~inttf?
~senses ~or intransitive fish and "4 for the nounhook.
Toether with the five senses of with(described m the next section), these yield 80~ook?SSible.
s nse combinations for to fish with aIn addition to contributing to the creationof COMPLEX, disambiguating strings of theform "to VERB with NP" also contributes tothe task of disambiguating prepositionalphrases in free text, an tmportant problem inNL processing.
As is well known, parsingprepositional phrases (PPs) in free text isproblematic because of the syntactic ambiguityof their attachment.
It is usually impossible todetermine on purely syntactic grounds whichhead a given PP attaches to from among allthose that.precede it in the sentence.
Thus,sentences like the player hit the ball with thebat are usually parsed as syntactically ambig-uous between with the bat as modifying theverb and its modifying the noun.One way to resolve the syntactic ambiguityis to fisrt resolve the semantic ambiguity thatunderlies it.
To resolve it, we follow the ap-proach proposed by Jensen & Binot (1987)and consult the dictionary defmitions of thewords involved.
This approach differs fromothers that have been proposed for theThus we differ From other attempts at disambiguating definitions, (such as Alshawi 1987), which leave these "with"cases unresolved.260disambiguation of polysemous words in con-text in that it accesses large published iction-aries rather than hand-built knowledge bases(as in Dalhgren & McDowell 1989).
More-over, it parses the information retrieved fromthe dictionary.
Other approaches apply simplestring matches (Lesk 1987) or statisUcal meas-ures (Amsler & Walker 1985).
Consulting thedict!onary for the player hit the ball with thebat ", we identLf~?
~with the bat" as meaning,among other things, the use of an implementand qait' as a verb that can take a use modifier.These potential meanings favor an attachmentof the PP to the verb.
Furthermore, since nosemantic connection can be established be-tween "ball" and "with the bat" based on thedictionary, the likelihood of the verb attach-ment increases.Within this approach, we can view thedisambiguation of the text of dictionary defi-nitions as a subgoal of the generalPP-attachment problem in free text.
Thestructure of sentences like "he hit the ball withthe bat" is "to VERB NP with NP", wheresyntactic ambiguity arises between attachmentto the verb and attachment to the syntacticobject.
These sentences differ from definitionstrings, which have the form of "to VERB withNP , lacking a syntactic object.
Even deft-nitions of transitive verbs, which are headedby transitive verbs, typicall), lack an object, asin bat, (vt, l)-"to strike or hit with or as if witha bat .
In the absence of an object, there isno attachment amb!guity, since there is onlyone head available ( strike or hit").
However,semantic ambiguity still remains: "hit" meansboth to strike and to score; "bat" refers bothto a club and to an animal.
We can view suchstrings as cases where attachment has alreadybeen resolved, and view their disambiguationas an attempt to supply the semantic basis forthat attachment.
Thus, obtaining the correctsemantic representation for cases where at-tachment is known directly benefits caseswhere attachment is ambiguous.Our Disambiguation Module (henceforthDM) selects the most appropriate sensecombination(s) in two parts: first, it tries toidentify the semantic ategories or types de-noted by each sense of the VERB and theNP-head.
It checks if the VERB denoteschange, affliction, an act of coveting, markingor providing.
It tests whether the NP-headrefers to an implement, a part of some otherentity, a human being or group, an animal, abody part, a feeling, state, movement, sound,etc.
~ rIqaen it tries to identify the semantic re-lation holding between the VERB andNP-head.
In the constructions we are inter-ested in, the semantic relation between the twoterms depends not only on their semantic at-egories but also on the semantics of with,which we discuss in the following section?2.
THE MEANING OF WITHTo investigate the semantics of with, weturn to the linguistic literature on one handand to lexico~aphical sources on the other.In the theoretical literature about prepositionsand PPs, a syntactic distinction is made be-tween PPs as complements of predicates andPPs as adjuncts.
In traditional terms, acomplement-PP is more closely related to theI-predicate-I, which determines its choice, thanto the prepositional complement' (Quirk et al1972).
In current erms, complement-PPs aredetermined by the predicate and listed in itslexical (or thematic) entry, from which syntac-tic structures are projected.
To assure correctprojection, the occurrence of complements insyntactic structures i subject o various con-ditions of uniqueness and completeness(Chomsky 1981; Bresnan 1982).
Adjuncts, bycontrast, do not depend on the predicate.They freely attach to syntactic structures asmodifiers and are not subject o these condi-tions.Although the syntactic distinction betweencomplements and adjuncts is assumed bymany theories, few provide criteria for decidingwhether a given PP is a complement or ad-junct.
(Exceptions are Larson (1988) andJackendoff (in preparation).)
The theoreticalstatus of with is particularly interesting in thiscontext: It is generally agreed that somewith-PPs (such as those expressing manner)are adjun~s and that others (like those occur-ring with spray/load" predicates) are comple-merits; but there is dtsagreement about thestatus of other classes, such as with-PPs ex-pressing instruments.
See Ravin (in press) fora discussion of this issue.The distinction between complements andadjuncts bears directly on our disambiguationproblem, as we try to match it to our dis-tinctton between NP-based heuristics andVERB-based ones (see Section 3).
In turn, theresults provided by our DM put the varioustheoretical hypotheses to test, by applyingthem to a large amount of real data.Dictionaries and other lexicographicalworks typically explain the meaning of prep-ositions in a collection of senses, some involv-ing semantic descriptions and others expressingusage comments.
W.7, for example, defineswith(l) semantically: in opposition to; against2 We have defined 16 semantic ategories for nouns, so far.
A most relevant question is how many such categories needto be stipulated.
For the purpose of the work reported here, these 16 categories urf'tee.
Others, however, will beneeded for the disambiguation of other prepositions and other forms or" ambiguity.3 We concentrate here on with; however, preliminary work indicates that the treatment of other prepositions i  quitesimilar.261('had a fight with his brother")"; it definessense 2 by a usage comment: "used as a func-tion word to indicate one to whom a usu.
re-ciprocal communication is made ("talking witha friend")".
W7 lists a total of 12 senses forwith and various sub-senses.
The LongmanDictionary of Contemporary English(Longman 1978; henceforth LDOCE) fists 20.Quirk et al (1972) attempt to group the varietyof meanings under a few general categories,such as means/instrument, accompantment,and having.
Others (Boguraev & Sparck Jones1987, Collins 1987) offer somewhat differentdivisions into main categories.After reviewin 8 the different characteriza-tions of the mearun~s of with against a smallcorpus of verb definitions containing with, wehave arrived at a set of five senses for it, cor-responding to five semantic relations that canhold between the VERB and the NP-head in"to VERB with NP".
Since we are concernedwith verbs only, senses mentioned by oursources for "NOUN with NP" were not in-cluded (e.g., the "having" sense of Quirk et al,as in a man with a red nose" or "a womanwith a large family").
Moreover, we have ob-served that certain common meanings of"VERB with NP" fail to occur in dictionarydetinitions.
The accompaniment sense, forexamp!e, as in "walk with Peter" or "drink withfriends , was not found in our corpus of 300defmltions.
4The five senses which we have identifiedare USE, MANNER, ALTERATION,CO-AGENCY/PARTICIPATION, andPROVISION, each including several smallersub-classes.
Each sense is characterized by adescription of the states of affairs it refers toand by some criteria which test it.
As can beexpected, however, the criteria are not alwaysconclusive.
There exist both unclear andoverlapping cases.USE - examples are ",'to fish with a hook"; "toobscure with a cloud ; and "to surround withan army".
With in this sense can usually beparaphrased as "by means off or "using".
Thestates of affairs in this category involve threeparticipants: an agent (usually the missingsubject of the definition), a patient (the missingobject) and the thing used (the referent of"wtth NP").
The agent usually manipulates,controls or uses the NP-referent and theNP-referent remains distinct and apart fromthe patient at the end of the action.
The sub-classes of USE are USE-OF-INSTRUMENT, -OF-SUBSTANCE,-OF-BODYPART,-OF-ANIMATE_BEING, -OF-OBJECT.MANNER - some examples are "to examinewith intent to verify"; "to anticipate with anx-iety"; or "to attack with blows or words".
"With NP" in this sense can be paraphrasedwith an adverb (e.g., anxiously ~, violently,verbally') and it describes the way in whichthe agent acts.
The MANNER sub-classes areINTENTION-, SOUND-, MOTION-,FEELING- or ATTITUDE-AS-MANNER.The distinction between USE and MANNERis usually quite straightforward but one classof overlapping cases we have identified has,todo with verbal entities, such as retort in tocheck or stop with a cutting retort".
Sinceverbal entities are abstract, they can be viewedas both being used by the agent as a type ofinstrument and describing how the action isperformed.ALTERATION - examples are "to mark withbars; 'to impregnate with alcohol"; "to ftllwith air ; and to strike with fear".
In somecases, this sense can be paraphrased with~make" and an  adjective (e.g., "make full",make afraid'); in others, with "put into/onto"(e.g., "put air into"; "put marks onto").
Thestates of affairs are ones in which change oc-curs in the patient and the NP-referent remainsclose to the patient or even becomes part of it.The sub-classes are ALTERATION-BY-MARKING, -BY-COVERING,-BY-AFFLICTION, and CAUSAL ALTER-ATION.
Cases of overlap between ALTER-ATION and USE are abundant.
'To spatterwith some discoloring substance" is an exam-ple of creating a change in the patient whileusing a substance.
The definition of spatteritself indicates this overlap: "to splash wtth oras if with a liquid; also to spoil in this way.CO-AGENCY or PARTICIPATION - as in"to combine with other parts".
Such  stringscan be paraphrased with and" ("one part andother parts combine ).
The state of affairs isone in which there are two agents or partic-ipants sharing relatively equally in the event.PROVISION - as in "to fit with clothes"; and"to furnish with an alphabet".
This sense canbe p~aphrased with give (and sometimeswith ~to" - "to furnish an alphabet o '), and itapplies to states of affairs where theNP-referent is given to somebody by the agent.In addition to the five semantic meaningsdiscussed above, there is also one purely syn-tactic function, PHRASAL, which with fulfdlsin verb-prepositioncombinations, suchas "in-vest with authority.
It can be argued that within such cases simply serves to link the NP tothe VERB.The DM disambiguates a given string byclassifying it as an instance of one of these sixcategories, and thus selecting the appropriatesense combination of the words in the string.A major contribution to the establishment of the senses of with has been comments and judgements of human subjects,who were asked to categorize samples of verb-definition strings into the various with senses we stipulated.262The process of disambiguation is a function ofinterdependencies among the senses of theVERB, the NP-head and with, as we show inthe next section.3.
THE DISAMBIGUATION PROCESSThe DM is an extended and modified ver-sion of an earlier prototype developed byJensen and Binot for the resolution ofprepositional-phrase attachment ambiguities(Jensen & Bmot 1987).
It uses a syntacticparser, PEG (Jensen 1986), and a body of se-mantic heuristics which operate on the parseddictionary definitions o f  the terms to bedisambiguated.
The first step in thedisambiguation process is parsing the ambig-uous string (e.g., "to fish with a hook') byPEG and tdentifyingthe two relevant erms,the VERB and NP-head (fish and hook).Next, each of these terms is looked up in WT,its definitions are retrieved and also parsed byPEG.
Heuristics then apply to the parsed de-fruitions of the terms to determine their se-mantic categories.
The heuristics contain a setof lexical and syntactic onditions to identifyeach semantic ategory.
For example, the IN-STRUMENT heuristic for nouns checks if thehead of the parsed definition is "instrument","implement') "device" ,"tool" or "weapon"; ifthe head is part '~, post-modified by an of-pp,whose, object is "instrument", "imolement",et_c_~..tt.tlae head is post-modified by thepartmpla~ usea as a weapon'; etc..
If any ofthese conditions apply, that sense of the nounis marked + INSTRUMENT.
sNext, each of the possible with-relations itried.
Let us take USE as a first example.
Todetermine whether a USE relation holds in aparticular string, the DM considers the se-mantic category of the NP-head.
The mosttypical case is when the NP-head is + IN-STRUMENT, as in to fish with a hook .
Inthis case, the relationship of USE is furthersupported by a link established between theNP-head definition and the VERB definitionthrough catch: a hook is an ~'... implement forcatching, holding, or pulling and to fish is toattempt o catch fish.
(See Jensen & Binot1987 for similar examples and discussion.
)Such a link, however, is rarely found.
In manyother USE instances, it is the meaning of theNP-head alone that determines the relation.Thus, DM determines that USE applies to "toattack with bombs" based on bomb(n,l)-"anexplosive device fused to detonate under .speci-fied conditions", although no link is establishedbetween attack and detonate.USE is also applied regardless of the VERBwhen the NP-head is +BODYPART andcertain syntactic conditions (a definite articleor a 3rd-person possessive pronoun) hold ofthe string, as ~ "to strike or push with or as ifwith the head" and to write with one's ownhand".
USE is similarly assigned if theNP-head is + SUBSTANCE: "to rub with oilor an oily substance" or "to kill especially withpoison'.
MANNER, like USE, is also deter-mined largely on the basis of the NP-head.
Itis assigned if the semantic category of theNP-head is a state ("to progress ,with muchtacking or difficulty'); a feeling ( to  disputewith zeal, anger or heat")i a movement ("tomove with a swaying or swindling motion"); anintention ("to examine with intent to verify");etc.Since USE and MANNER are largely de-termined on the basis of the semantic ategoryof the NP, they correspond to adjuncts, in thetheoretical distinction made between adjunctsand complements.
By contrast, ALTER-ATION, CO-AGENCY and PROVISION aredetermined mostly on the basis of the VERBand could be said to correspond to comple-ments.
(There are, however, many compli-cations with this simple division, which we arecurrently studying.)
To assign an ALTER-ATION relation to a string, the DM checkswhether the VERB subcategorizes for an (op-tional) with-complement, based on informa-tion found in the online version of LDOCEand whether the VERB denotes change.
Theftrst LDOCE sense of fill, ~to make or becomefull", for example, fulfills both conditions.Therefore, ALTERATION is assigned !n "tobecome filled with or as if with air, to fdlwith detrital material" and "to become idledwith painful yearning".
ALTERATION alsoapplies to other verb classes that are notmarked for with-subcategorization inLDOCE, such as verbs denot~g affliction ("toovercome with fear or dread') or actions ofmarking ("to mark with an asterisk").
Finally,PHRASAL is assigned if a separate LDOCEentry exists for "VERB with, as in "to chargewith a crime" and "to ply with drink".PHRASAL indicates that the semantic relationbetween the VERB and the NP is not re-stricted by the meaning of with but is more likethe relation between a verb and its direct ob-ject.Since the heuristics for each semantic re-lation are independent of each other, conflict-ing interpretations may arise.
There are casesof unresolved ambigu!ty, when different sensesof one of the terms gtve rise to different inter-pretations.
For example,.
"to write with one'sown hand" receives a ~ USE(-OF-BODYPART) interpretation but also aUSE (-OF-ANIMATE BEING), which is in-correct but due to several W7 senses of handwhich are marked +HUMAN ("one whoperforms or executes a particular work"; "oneemployed at manual labor or general tasks";s The heuristics apply to each definition in isolation, retrieving information that is static and unchanging.
In the future,we intend to apply the heuristics to the whole dictionary and store the information in COMPLEX.263"worker, employee", etc.).
A general heuristiccan be added to prefer a + BODYPART in-terpretation over a + HUMAN one, since thisambiguity occurs with other body parts too.Other instances of ambiguity, however, aremore idiosyncratic.
"I'o utter with accent", forexample, receives a MANNER interpretation(correct), based on aecent(n,l)-"a distinctivemanner of usually oral expression ; but it alsoreceives USE(-OF-SUBSTANCE) (incorrect),based on aeeent(n,7,c)-"a substance or objectused for emphasis .
General heuristics cannoteliminate all cases of ambiguities of this kind.Another t~,pe of conflict arises when onesemantic relation is assigned on the basis of theVERB while another is assigned on the basisof the NP-head.
This is the case with toovercome with fear or dread", for which theDM returns two interpretations: ALTER-ATION (correct) because the verb denotes af-fliction and MANNER (incorrect) because theNP denotes a mental attitude.
For "to com-bine or impregnate with ammonia or anammonium compound" DM similarly returnsALTERATION (correct) because the verb isa causative verb of change andUSE(-OF-SUBSTANCE) (incorrect) becausethe NP refers to a chemical substance.
Tohandle this type of conflict:, we have imple-mented a "Tmal preference heuristic whichchooses the VERB-based interpretation overthe NP-based one.
Note, however, that thisheuristic has implications for cases of overlap,such as "spatter with a discoloring substance",discussed above.
When DM generates boththe VP-based ALTERATION link and theNP-based link of USE for this string, the for-mer would be preferred over the latter.
Thusthe fact that both links truly apply in this casewill be lost.A third possible conflict arises between aPHRASAL interpretation and a semantic one.The DM returns PHRASAL-VERB (correct)and ALTERATION (incorrect) for to chargewith a crime, based on eharge with-(espe-ciaUy of an official or an official group) tobring a charge against ,(someone) for (some-thing wrong); accuse of ; and eharge(with)-"to(cause to) take in the correct amount of elec-tricity".
Since the existence of a PHRASALinterpretation is an idiosyncratic property ofverbs, there is no general heuristic for solvingconflicts of this kind.4.
RESULTSWe have developed our DM heuristicsbased on a training corpus of 170 strings - 148transitive and 22 intransitive verb definitionsextracted randomly from the letters a and b ofW7 using a pattern extracting program devel-oped by M. Chodorow (Chodorow & Klavansin preparation).
The syntactic forms of thestrings vary as can be seen from the followingexamples: "!o suffer from or become affectedwith blight'; to contend with full strength,vigor, craft, or resources'; to prevent from in-terfering with each other (as by a baffle).However, since we submit the strings to thePEG parser and retrieve the VERB andNP-head from the parsed structures, we areable to abstract over most of the variations.Currently, the DM ignores multiple conjunctsin coordinate structures and considers only oneVERB and one NP-head.
In the future, allpossible pairings should be considered (e.g.
"contend with strength", 'contend with vigor","contend with craft , and so on, for the exam-~ le mentioned above) and the results should e combined.
As mentioned in Section 1, de-fruition strings lack a syntactic object.
The fewstrings that contain an object include it in pa-rentheses ( to  treat (flour) with nitrogenttrichloride 3.
This, again, is tolerated by thePEG parser, and allows us to assume that inall the strings the with-phrase attaches to theVERB rather than to the object.The DM results can be summarized as fol-lows: The correct 6semantic relation, based onthe appropriate semantic category (of theNP-head or VERB), is assigned to 113 out ofthe 170 strings.
Here are a few examples:sever with an axUSE(-OF-INSTRUMENT)wet with bloodUSE(-OF-SUBSTANCE)inter with full ceremonies(ACTION-AS-) MANNERdispute with zeal(ATTITUDE-AS-) MANNERornament with ribbonALTERATION (BY-COVERING)clothe with rich garmentsALTERATION (BY-COVERING)equip with weaponsPROVISIONWe consider these 113 results to be completelysatisfactory.In a second group of cases, the correct se-mantic relation, based on the appropriate se-mantic category, is one of 2 (andrarely of 3)semantic relations assigned to the string.
Thereare 15 such cases.
Here are two examples:harass with dogsUSE(-OF-ANIMATE_BEING) correctUSE(-OF-INSTRUMENT) incorrectThe second interpretation ts due todog(n,3,a)-"any of various usually simple me-chanical devices for holding, gripping, or fas-tening consisting of a spike, rod, or bar".Lacking information about the frequency ofdifferent senses of words, we have at presentno principled way to distinguish a primary6 See discussion of correctness at the end of this section.264sense (like the animal sense of dog) from moreobscure senses (like the device sense).Make dirty with grimeUSE(-OF-SUBSTANCE) correct(STATE-AS) MANNER incorrectThe incorrect interpretation of grime as man-ner is due to the definition of its hypernymdirtiness as "the quality or state of being dirty .We consider this second group of cases, whichare assigned two interpretations, to be partialsuccesses, ince they represent an improvementover the initial number of possible sense com-binations even if they do not fullydisambiguated them.In 37 cases, DM is unable to assign anyinterpretation.
One reason is failure to identifythe semantic category o f  the VERB orNP-head.
For example, 'to pronounce with aburr should be assigned MANNER(SOUND), but the relevant definitions of burrread: "a trilled uvular r as used by somespeakers of English especially ~n northern En-gland and in Scotland and a tongue-oointtrill that is the usual Scottish r", making tt im-possible for DM to identify it as a sound.
(Seediscussion below.)
There are other reasons forfailure: occasionally the NP-head isnot listedas an entry in W7, as barking in  to pursuewith barking" or drunkenness in to muddlewith drunkenness or infatuation".
Even if weintroduced morphological rules, identified thebase of the derivational word and looked upthe meaning of the base, the derived meaningin these cases would still not be obvious.Finally, a negligible number of failures is dueto incorrect parsing by PEG, which in turnprovides incorrect input for the heuristics.Failure to assign any interpretation doesnot, of course, count as success; but it does notproduce much harm either.
Far more danger-ous than iao assignment is the assignment ofone incorrect interpretation, since incorrect in-terpretations cannot be differentiated fromcorrect ones in any general or automatic way.Out of the set of 170 strings, only 5 are as-signed a single incorrect interpretation.
Theseare:press with requests(STATE-AS-) MANNERbased on the fourth definition of request: "thestate of being sought after; demand".Seize with teethALTERATION (BY-AFFLICTION)based on seize(vt,5,a)-"to attack or overwhelmphysically; afflict".Speak with a burrUSE(-OF-INSTRUMENT)based on burr(n,2,b,1)-"a small rotary cuttingtool".Suffuse with light USE 265where the semantic relation may seem correct,but the sense of light on which it is based ("aflame for lighting something") is inappropriate.Possess with a devilUSE(-OF-ANIMATE BEING)where the intended semafftic relation is unclear(ALTERATION?)
as is the semantic ategoryof devil.
However, the USE interpretation isclearly based on the several inappropriate+ HUMAN senses of devil ( an extremely andmalignantly wicked person : fiend"; "apersonof notable energy, recklessness, and dashingspirit"; and others).As incorrect interpretations cannot be au-tomatically identified as such, it is most im-portant o design the heuristics o that theygenerate as few incorrect interpretations aspossible.
One way of restricting the heuristicsts by not considering the meaning ofhypemyms, except in special cases.
To returnto "pronounce wtth a burr".
We prefer to missthe fact that a burr, which is a trill, is a soundby ignoring the meaning of the hypemym trillthan to have to take into account he meaningof all the hypemyms of burr.
Considering themeaning o f  all the hypernyms will yield toomany incorrect semantic interpretations for"pronounce with a burr".
One hypemym ofburr, weed, has a + HUMAN sense and a+ ANIMAL sense; ridge, another hypemym,has a + BODYPART sense.Since results obtained with the trainingcorpus were promising, we ran DM on a test-ing corpus: 132 definitions of the form "toVERB with NP" not processed by the pro-gram before.
The results obtained with thetesting corpus are compared below with thoseof the training corpus.
The first column liststhe total number of strings; the second, thenumber of strings assigned a single, correct in-terl?retation; the third, the number of stringsasstgned two interpretations, one of which tscorrect; the fourth column shows the numberof strings for which no interpretation wasfound, and the last column lists the numberof strings assigned one or more incorrect in-terpretations (but no correct ones).TOT COR 1/2 0 INCTRAINING 170 113 15 37 5TESTING 132 75 13 22 22To measure the coverage of DM, we calculatethe ratio of strings interpreted (correctly andincorrectly) to the total number of strings:TRAININGTESTINGCOVERAGE RATIO133/170 (or 78.2%)110/132 (or 83.3%)To measure the reliability of DM, we calculatethe ratio of correct interpretations to incorrectones:TRAININGTESTINGCOR-TO-INC RATIO113/133 (or 85%)75/110 (or 68%)If we include in the correct category thosestrings for which two interpretations werefound (only one of which is correct), the reli-ability measure increases:TRAININGTESTINGCOR + I/2-TO-INC RATIO128/133 (or 96.2%)88/110 (or 80%)As expected, reliability for the testing materialis lower than for the training set.
This is dueto the several iterations of free-tuning to whichthe training corpus has been subjected.
Theexamination of the testing results suggestssome further f'me-tuning, which is currentlybeing implemented, and which will reduce thenumber of incorrect interpretations.Finally, we developed a criterion by whichto measure the accuracy of our judgements ofcorrectness.
To ensure that our personaljudgements of the correctness of the DM in-terpretations as reported above were neitheridiosyncratic nor favorably biased, we com-pared them with the judgements of other hu-man subjects, both linguists and non-linguists.We randomly selected 58 definition stringswhose interpretation we judged to be correctand assigned each of them to 3-4 differentparticipants for their judgements.
Participantswere asked to perform the same task as themodule's, namely, for each definition string,select the relevant with-link from among thesix we have stipulated and choose the relevantsenses of the VERB and the NP-head fromamong all their W7 senses.
We provided shortexplanations of the different with-links (basedon the descriptions found here in Section 2)with a few examples.
We allowed participantsto choose more than one link if necessary, sothat we can detect cases of overlap; we alsoallowed the choice of OTHER, if no linkseemed suitable; or a question mark, if thestring seemed confusing.In 3 cases there was no consensus amongthe human judgements.
Either 4 differentchoices of with-links or two question markswere given, as shown below:Affect with a blighting influenceUSE, PHRASAL,ALTERATION/PHRASAL, ?Fill with bewildered wonderPROVISION, PHRASAL,ALTERATION, MANNERfit to or with a stockPROVISION, USE, ?, ?Even though the DM choice for these strings(deemed correct by us) coincided with one of266the human choices, the variation is too largeto validate the correctness of this choice.These 3 cases were therefore ignored.In 44 cases out of the remaining 55, therewas (almost) unanimous agreement (3 or 4)among the human judgements on a singlewith-link.
The DM choice was identical to 41of those 44.
That is, in 41 out of 44 cases, ourown judgement of correctness coincides withthat of others.
The cases where we differ are:flavor, blend, or preserve with brandy4 subjects out o f  4: ALTERATIONDM: USEface or endure with courage2 subjects out of 3: MANNERthird subject: MANNER/USEDM: USEstrengthen with or as if with buckram4 subjects out of 4: ALTERATIONDM: USEIn the remaining 11 strings, there was an evensplit in the human judgements between twowith-links, indicative to some extent of genuineoverlap.
For example, "treat with a bromate"was interpreted as USE by two participantsand as ALTERATION bytwo others.
Oneparticipant explained that his choice dependedon the implied object: he would categorizetreating a patient with medicine as USE buttreating a metal with a chemical substance asALTERATION.
The DM choice was identi-cal to one of the two altemative humanchoices in 10 out of these 11 strings.
That is,in 10 out of 11 cases, our judgement of cor-rectness fits one of the two choices made byothers.To summarize, our judgements of correct-ness were validated by others in 51 cases outof 56 (or 91%).
Our practical conclusion fromthis experiment is simply that our semanticjudgements concerning the meaning of with incontext coincides with those of others oftenenough to allow us to rely on our intuitionswhen informaUy evaluatinAg the results of ourprogram.
More generally, this experimentseems to indicate that people reach consensuson the meaning of prepositions once they aregiven a set of alternatives to choose from, eventhough they may fmd it very difficult to definethe meaning of prepositions themselves.
Thesignificance of the unclear cases and the over-lap cases in the experiment requires furtherstudy.CONCLUSIONAs our evaluations indicate, the DMwhich we are developing is quite successful inidentifying the correct semantic relation thatholds between the terms of a definition string.In identifying this relation, the DM also par-tially disambig.uates the senses of the definitiontema" s. In ass,gning MANNER, for example,to utter with accent , DM selects two sensesof accent as relevant, from among the ninelisted in its W7 entry.
In assigning ALTER-ATION to mark with a written or printedaccent", it selects 3 completely different sensesof accent as relevant.
Thus, the same noun(accent), occurring in identical syntactic struc-tures ("VERB with NP') is assigned ifferentsense(s), based on its semantic link to its head.Interpreting the semantic relations betweengenus and differentia nd disambiguating thesenses of de\[ruing terms are both crucial forour lgeneral goal - the creation of a compre-henswe, yet disambiguated, lexical database.There are other important applications: theheuristics that have been developed for theanalysis of dictionary definitions should behelpful in the disamb,guation f PPs occurringin free text.
In cases of syntactic ambiguity,the need to determine proper attachment isevident.
In addition, we should point out thatthere is a need to identity the semantic relationbetween a head and a PP, even when attach-ment is clear.
In translation, for example, re-solving the semantic ambiguity of a sourcepreposition is needed when ambiguity cannotbe preserved in the target preposition.
Finally,we hope that the computationaldisambiguation of the meanings of prep-ositions will contribute interesting insights tothe linguistic issues concerning the distm" ctionbetween adjuncts and complements.ACKNOWLEDGMENTSI thank John Justeson (Watson Research Ctr.,IBM), Martin Chodorow (Hunter College,CUNY), Michael Gunther (ASD, IBM) andHoward Sachar (ESD, IBM) for many criticalcomments and insights.REFERENCESAlshawi Hiyan.
1987.
"ProcessingDictiona_~,,Definitions with Phrasal Pattem Hierarchies ,Computational Linguistics, 13, 3-4, 195-202.Amsler Robert & Donald Walker.
1985. q 'heUse of Machine-Readable Dictionaries in? "
" ban u e Sublanguage Analysis, m Su l, ~ ag : De-scription and Processing, eds.
R. Grishman andR.
Kittredge, Lawrence Erlbaum.Boguraev Branimir & Karen Sparck Jones.1987.
Material Concerning a Study of Cases,Technical Report no.
118, Cambridge: Uni-versity of Cambridge, Computer Laboratory.Bresnan Joan.
1982.
ed., The Mental Repre-sentation of Grammatical Relations,Cambridge, Mass.
: MIT Press.Byrd Roy.
1989.
"Discovering Relationshipsamong Word Senses , to be published in Dic-tionaries in the Electronic Age."
Proceedings ofthe Fifth Annual Conference of the Universityof Waterloo Centre for the New Oxford EnglishDictionary.Chodorow Martin & Judith Klavans.
In prep-aration.
"Locating Syntactic Pattems in TextCorpora".Chomsky Noam.
1981.
Lectures on Govern-ment and Binding, Dordrecht: Foris.Collins.
1987.
Cobuild, English LanguageDictionary, London: Collins.Dahlgren Kathleen & Joyce McDowell.
1989.'
Knowledge Representation for CommonsenseReasoning with Text , Computational Linguis-tics, 15, 3, 149-170.Jackendoff Ray.
In preparation.
SemanticStructures.Jensen Karen.
1986.
"PEG 1986: A Broad-coverage Computational Syntax of English",Unpublished paper.Jensen Karen & Jean-Louis Binot.
1987.
"Disambiguating Prepositional Phrase Attach-ments by Using On-Line Definitions", Com-putational Linguistics, 13, 3-4, 251-260.Klavans Judith, Martin Chodorow, Roy Byrd& Nina Wacholder.
1990.
'~Faxonomy andPolysemy", Research Report, IBM.Larson Richard.
1988.
"Implicit Arguments inSituation Semantics', Linguistics and Philoso-phy, 11, 169-201.Lesk Michael.
1987.
"Automatic SenseDisambiguation Using Machine ReadableDictionaries: \[tow to Tell a Pine Cone froman Ice Cream Cone", Proceedings of the 1986A CM SIGDOC Conference, Canada.Longman.
1978.
Longman Dictionary of Con-temporary English, London: Longman Group.Merriam.
1963.
Webster's Seventh NewCollegiate Dictionary, Springfield, Mass.:G.&C.
Merriam.Quirk Randolph, Sidney Greenbaum, GeoffreyLeech & Jan Svartvik.
1972.
A Grammar ofContemporary English, London: LongmanHouse.Ravin Yael.
In print.
Lexical Semantics with-out Thematic Roles, Oxford: Oxford UniversityPress.267
