Lexical Disambiguation: Sources of Information and their StatisticalRealizationIdo Dagan *Computer  Sc ience Depar tment ,  Techn ion ,  Hai fa ,  IsraelandIBM Scientific Center, Technion City, Haifa, IsraelAbst rac tLexieal disambiguation can be achieved using differ-ent sources of information.
Aiming at high perfor-mance of automatic disambiguation it is importantto know the relative importance and applicability ofthe various sources.
In this paper we classify sev-eral sources of information and show how some ofthem can be achieved using statistical data.
Firstevaluations indicate the extreme importance of localinformation, which mainly represents lexical associ-ations and seleetional restrictions for syntacticallyrelated words.1 D isambiguat ion  SourcesThe resolution of lexical ambiguities in unrestrictedtext is one of the most difficult tasks of natural an-guage processing.
In machine translation we areconfronted with the related task of target word se-lection - the task of deciding which target languageword is the most appropriate quivalent of a sourcelanguage word in context.
In contrast o compu-tational systems, humans eem to select the correctsense of an ambiguous word without much effort andusually without even being aware to the existenceof an ambiguous ituation.
This fact naturally ledresearches to point out various sources of informa-tion which may provide the necessary cues for dis-ambiguation, either for humans or machines.
Thefollowing paragraphs classify these sources into twomajor types, based on either understanding of thetext or frequency characteristics of it.One kind of information relates to the under-standing of the meaning of the text, using semanticand pragmatic knowledge and applying reasoningmechanisms.
The following sentences, taken fromforeign news sections in the Israeli Hebrew press,demonstrate how different levels of understandingcan provide the disambiguating information.
(1) hayer ha-bayit ha-'elyon shel ha-parlament ha-*This research was partially supported by grant number120-7'41 of the Israel Council for Research and Development341sovieti zaka be-monitin ke-hoker shel ha-sh_hitutbe-kazahstan.This sentence translates into English as:(2) The member of the upper house of the sovietparliament acquired a reputation as an investi-gator of the corruption in Kazakhstan.The two most frequent senses of the ambiguous noun'_hayer' correspond to the English words 'friend' and'member'.
In the above example, the information forselecting the correct sense is provided by the seman-tic knowledge that 'a house of parliament' ypicallyhas members but not friends.
Computationally thiskind of information is usually captured by a shal-low semantic model of selectional restrictions.
Inother cases, such as example (3), it is necessary touse deeper understanding of the text, which involvessome level of reasoning:(3) be-het'em le-hoq ha-hagira ha-hadash tihye le-kol ezrah.h_ sovieti ha-zkut ha-otomatit lekabeldarkon bar tokef le-hamesh shanim.This sentence translates into English as:(4) According to the new emigration bill every so-viet citizen will have the automatic right to re-ceive a passport valid for five years.The Hebrew word 'hagira' is used for the two sub-senses 'emigration' and 'immigration'.
In order tomake the correct selection it is necessary to reasonthat since the soviet bill relates to soviet citizensthen it concerns with leaving the country ratherthan entering it.Another kind of information source, which wasoriginally raised in the psycholinguistic literature,relates to the relative frequencies of word sensesand associations between word senses.
These fac-tors were shown to play an important role in lexicalretrieval, and were suggested as relevant for lexicaldisambiguation \[4, 3\].
Hanks \[1\], for example, listsdifferent words associated with the two senses of theword 'bank', such as money, notes, account, invest-ment etc.
versus river, swim, boat etc.Aiming for high performance in automatic disam-biguation, it is important o know (a) what is theportion of ambiguous cases in running text whichcan be resolved by each source of information and(b) how to set preferences among these sources whenthey provide contradicting evidence.2 Stat i s t i ca l  In fo rmat ionA tempting starting point for answering the abovequestions is to use various types of statistical dataabout word senses and evaluate their contributionto disambiguation.
In recent years, statistical datawere used successfully for other linguistic tasks.The process of acquiring statistical data is usuallyfaster and more standard and objective than manualconstruction of knowledge.
This makes such datasuitable for the evaluation task we are confrontedwith.
The following paragraphs describe the kindsof statistics we use and explain how they reflect dif-ferent types of disambiguating information.In another paper \[2\] we describe a new multilin-gual approach in which we gather statistics aboutsenses of amhiguous words of one language usinga corpus of a different language.
For example,the different word associations for the two sensesof 'bank' will be identified in a Hebrew corpus,where a distinct word is used for each of the senses.This method enabled us to collect statistics fromvery large corpora without manually tagging the oc-currences of the ambiguous words with their wordsenses.
In our first experiment we have examinedabout one hundred examples of ambiguous Hebrewwords which were selected randomly from foreignnews sections in the Israeli press.
For each senseof a Hebrew word we have collected statistics (inan English corpus) on its absolute frequency and itscooccurrences with other words that were syntacti-cally related with it in the example sentence.Two kinds of statistics were maintained.
Onestatistic was the number of times in which the re-lated words were identified in the corpus having thesame syntactic relation as in the example sentence.This kind of statistic reflects both sehctional restric-tions, like the relation between 'member' (versus'friend') and 'a house of parliament', and also wordassociations, like the association between 'member'and 'reputation', which is stronger than the associ-ation between 'friend' and 'reputation'.
In the firstcase we expect a null frequency for the semanticallyillegal alternative, while in the second case we ex-pect the difference in frequencies to represent thedifferent degrees of association between the compet-ing alternatives and their surrounding context.
Ingetting this syntactically based statistic we are ofcourse limited by the coverage and the accuracy ofthe parser, thus getting smaller and somewhat noisycounts relative to the real counts in the corpus.A second and more robust statistic is obtainedby counting the number of times in which the twowords cooccurred within a limited distance \[1\].
Forinstance, the words 'member' and 'acquire' cooc-curred 81 times in the corpus within a maximal dis-tance of 7 words.
This statistic is partly correlatedwith the first statistic, capturing also cases that weremissed by the parser, but it also reflects lexical as-sociations between words that tend to cooccur ad-jacently without having a specific syntactic relationbetween them.
For instance, in one of our examplesthe word 'hatsba'ah', which means either 'voting' or'indication', cooccurred in the same sentence withthe word 'bhirot' (elections).
We expect that theadjacency statistic will indicate the strong associa-tion between 'voting' and 'elections', and thus wouldprefer 'voting' as the appropriate sense.The results reported in \[2\] together with furtherexamination of our data have clearly indicated someinteresting facts.
In the vast majority of casesenough disambiguating information is provided bythe immediate context, especially by syntacticallyrelated words.
The absolute frequency of a wordsense does not seem very useful, since it usually canhe overridden successfully by the local context.
Anencouraging fact is that deep understanding of thetext is rarely necessary, and seems to be requiredonly for very delicate distinctions uch as in exam-ple (3).
In future work we intend to further analyzeour data and test more examples, so that we canreach more decisive and quantitive conclusions.
Webelieve that such conclusions will contribute to im-prove lexical disambiguation i broad coverage sys-tems.References\[1\]\[2\]Church, K. W., and Hanks, P., Word associa-tion norms, mutual information, and Lexicog-raphy, Computational Linguistics, vol.
16(1),22-29 (1990).Dagan, Ido, Alon Ital and Ulrike Schwall, Twolanguages are more informative than one, sub-mitted to ACL-91.\[3\]\[4\]Meyer, D., Schvaneveldt, R. and Ruddy, M.,Loci of contextual effects on visual word-recognition, in P. Rabbitt and S. Dornic (eds.
),Attention and Performance V, Academic Press,New-York, 1975.Simpson, Greg B. and Curt Burgess, Implica-tions of lexical ambiguity resolution for wordrecognition, in Small, S. L., G. W. Cotrell andM.
K. Tanenhaus, (eds.)
Lexicai Ambiguity Res.olution, Morgan Kaufman Publishers, 1988.342
