Case Revisited: In the Shadow of Automatic Processing of Machine-ReadableDictionariesFuliang WengComputing Research Lab, New Mexico State UniversityLas Cruces, NM 88003This paper discusses the work of automat- experiencer; if a person who uses this conceptically extracting Case Frames from Machine- believes that seeing is a process of active selec-Readable Dictionaries based on a three layer tion, then this person will assign to its subject,a posteriori Case Theory\[5\].
an active Case such as agent.The theory is intended to deal with two 3. context  layer: in this layer, Casesproblems:1.
To dynamically adjust grains of Cases.This is where a posteriori comes from.2.
To provide a procedure to determineCases.
This is where three layer comes from.The three layers are:1. base layer: This layer is intended to ac-complish transformations of words to conceptsby explicating language and word specific im-plicants, e.g., for the verb eat in the intran-sitive case, its subject is eater, while for verbbreak in the intransitive case, its subject is thebroken.2.
default  layer: in this layer, implicit as-sumptions of naive theories are made explicit,e.g., for concept see, there are two differentviews towards its subject: if a person who usesthis concept believes that seeing is just a pro-cess of passive perception, then this person willassign to its subject, a passive 1 Case such as*I would like to express thanks to Dr. L. Guthrie,Dr.
D. Farwell and Prof. Y. Wilks for comments andencouragement.
This project is supported in paxt byCRL.
Some of the ideas were developed during my stayin CS/Fudan and CMT/CMU.1The words passine/'acti~e are used to indicate dif-ferent levels of activeness.
In what follows, Casessuch as agent and instrument have somewhat differentmeanings than the conventional ones.
We use themjust for referring to a group of phenomena which arerelated to their names.are further clarified upon any requests fromcurrent tasks, associated context and personalbelief systems (knowledge), e.g., in sentenceThe commander forced the soldier to break thedoor., whether the soldier should be assignedagent, instrument, active, or something else,should be decided by both contextual infor-mation and needs.Arguments for the three layer theory can befound in\[5\].Relevant knowledge sources for arriving atdifferent layers are:1.
Formation of the base layer: the for-mation is based on knowledge sources whichmainly come from syntactic codes and def-initions in LDOCE (Longman Dictionary ofContemporary English).
Examples in LDOCEalso contribute to this process \[1\].2.
Formation of the default  layer: the for-mation is based on the assumption that naivetheories are weakly consistent, which impliesthat certain semantic lassifications may beconsistent with certain naive theories: verb,noun, preposition and adjective classificationsbased on semantic and pragmatic odes inLDOCE, and examples in LDOCE can helpto obtain such theories.3.
Formation of the context  layer: theunification of the base layer and the de-337fault layer forms an initial representation fthe context layer, its further developmentmainly depends on task, contextual needs andpersonal belief systems.
The initial repre-sentation is a tuple with three components:entity-role, environment and endurance.
Anexample of an initial representation for breakis: ((+) (u-) (0)) break ((-) (u-) (0)), where(+) stands for active, (-) for passive, (u -) forindexing of the internal environment, (0) forduration.
If the task is MT, the requirementfor understanding could be shallow as pointedout by Wilks \[7\], although e did not discussany dynamic grain adjustment.
Contextual in-formation can be conveyed by active featuresFollowing the boot-strapping principle, weare starting with 750 genus verbs in the defin-ing word list of LDOCE, then gradually ex-panding them to all the verbs defined inLDOCE.There are various ubtasks associated withthis work:1.
Dynamically adjusting classifications ofrelational concepts (mainly reflected by verbs):we are trying to get a set of core verbs as proto-types of classes based on certain statistics andgenus verb sense nets (the latter is being con-structed by G. Stein).
A primary set of coreverbs have been chosen, functional verbs arecarefully prevented.
The criterion for dynam-ically adjusting verb classes is: Cj (d) = (y :II y-z H< d,z E Cj), where C i are core classesand II ?
II is defined as: II y -x  U = mini( i is thenumbers of links on P, P is any path connect-ing x and y }.
We can select a reasonable dis-tance for Cj(d) by detecting slopes with pointsin the distribution of members.
Classificationcan also be done within connectionist models.2.
From the prototypes, naive theories maybe formed, and then converted into represen-tations in the default layer.3.
Dynamic reation of Cases.
Initial rep-resentations in the context layer may be ad-justed and new Cases be created according toa set of contextual conditions (mainly whenmismatches happen).4.
A set of rules can be constructed to getthe conventional Cases for typical situations.Many Case Theories are focused on verbs.In our situation, all the four major cate-gories (verb, noun, adjective and preposition)must be paid enough attention to, since thereare many verbs defined by verb phrases inLDOCE.
e.g., a definition entry of verb takein LDOCE contains get possession of.
In or-der to select a right Case frame and verb classfor each verb, we need something beyond whatwe have presented although it does not con-flict with what we have proposed and it is veryplausible that the procedure used here may beadapted to establish Case frames for nouns,adjectives and prepositions.
This task may bebenefited from \[2\].References\[1\] B. Atkins et al Explicit and Implicit In\]ormationin Dictionarien, CSL Report 5, Princeton Univer-sity, 1986.\[2\] R. Bruce and L. Guthrle, GenuJ Disambiguation:A Study in Weighted Prelerenee, MCCS-91-207,CRL/NMSU, 1991.\[3\] C. Fillmore, The Ca~e \]or Case,in Uni~ersab inLinguistic Theory, E. Bach and R. Harm (eds.
),Holt, Rinehart, and Winston, 1968.\[4\] R. Schank, Coneeptaal Information Processing,North-Holland Publishing Co., 1975.\[5\] F. Weng, A Three-Layer a posteriori Ca~e The-07, in preparation, 1991.\[6\] W. Wilkins, Syntaz and Semantics, AcademicPress, Inc., California, 1988.Y.
Wilks, An Artificial Intelligence Approachto Machine Translation, in Computer Models o\]Thoaght 6nd Language, R.Schaak and K.Colby(eds.
), W.H.Freemaa Co., 1973.338
