A SYSTEM FOR TRANSLAT ING LOCATIVE  PREPOSIT IONSFROM ENGL ISH INTO FRENCH*Natha l ie  JapkowiczDepartment of Computer  ScienceRutgers UniversityNew Brunswick, NJ  08903nat~yoko.rutgers.eduJanyce  M.  WiebeDepartment  of Computer  ScienceUniversity of TorontoToronto, Canada M5S 1A4wiebe~cs.toronto.eduAbstractMachine translation oflocative prepositions isnot straightforward, even between closely re-lated languages.
This paper discusses a sys-tem of translation of locative prepositions be-tween English and French.
The system isbased on the premises that English and Frenchdo not always conceptualize objects in thesame way, and that this accounts for the majordifferences in the ways that locative preposi-tions are used in these languages.
This paperintroduces knowledge representations of con-ceptualizations of objects, and a method fortranslating prepositions based on these con-ceptual representations.1 IntroductionThis paper presents an analysis of the differ-ences in the uses of locative prepositions intwo languages, and then describes an auto-matic system of translation that is based onthis analysis.Our research originated from the observa-tion that even between two closely related lan-guages uch as English and French, locativeprepositions of even simple sentences do notseem to be translated from one language tothe other in a clearly systematic and coherentway.
However, the translation becomes morecoherent if we introduce Herskovits' idea ofthe ideal meaning of a preposition (Herskovits1986) and Lakoff's idea of Idealized CognitiveModels (ICM's) (Lakoff 1987).
A central partof our research was to design entities based*The  research  descr ibed  in  th is  paper  was con-ducted  a t  the  Uxfivez~ity of  Toronto .on Lakoff's ICM's.
We call these entities cor.-ceptual representations of objects.
The mainthesis of this paper is that, even though theideal meanings of the locative prepositions westudied are the same in English and in French,these two languages do not always conceptual-ize the objects involved in s scene in the sameway and that this leads to differences in thetranslation of locative prepositions.
This the-ory seems uitable to pairs of languages otherthan English and French, as well.In addition, we will also desccibe how thesystem detects abnormalities and ambiguitiesusing knowledge required for the translationtask.This paper is organized as follows: section2 presents an analysis of and a solution to theproblem of translating locative prepositionsfrom English into French, section 3 presentsthe conceptual representations of objects, sec-tion 4 presents the algorithm we designed andimplemented for translating locative preposi-tions, section 5 discusses the detection of ab-normalities and ambiguities, and section 6 isthe conclusion.2 Translating LocativePreposit ionsWe now describe the differences between En-glish and French locative xpressions and givea possible analysis of the problem.
Specifi-cally, we concentrate on the translation of thethree locative prepositions 'in', 'on', and 'at',into the French prepositions 'dana', 'surf, and'&', in the context of simple sentences or ex-pressions of the form:153(located object)(be)(locative preposition)(reference object)(located object)(locative preposition)(reference object)2.1 Examples  o f  the  prob lemWhile in the most representative uses of loca-tive prepositions, there is a direct correspon-dence between English and French ('in' corre-sponding to 'dans', 'on' to 'sur', and 'at' to'tL'), in many cases, this correspondence doesnot hold.The following pairs of sentences illustratecases in which the correspondences hold:(1) The boy is in his room.Le garcon est dazes a chambre.
(2) The glass is on the table.Le verre est sur la table.
(3) The secretary is at her desk.La secr~taire est d son bureau.Senten  (4), (5), and (6), in contrast,trate cases in which the correspondences donot hold:(4)(5)My friend is in the picture.Mon and(e) est sur la photo.The lounge chair is in the shade.La chaise longue est d l'ombre.
(6) Our professor is on the bus.Notre professeur est dan le bus.At first sight, the correspondence b tween En-glish and French locative prepositions mayseem arbitrary.
Our analysis, however, revealsthat coherence might be found.2.2 Ana lys i s  o f  the  prob lemOur analysis takes its principal sources inthe works of Herskovits (1986) and Grimaud(1988).2.2.1 Herskovits '  contr ibut ionHerskovits (1986) contributed to the solutionto our problem by introducing the concept ofthe ideal meaning of a locative preposition.This concept is inspired by Rosch's (1977) pro-totype theory, in which human categorizationof objects is viewed as organized around pro-totypes (best instances of the category) anddistances from these prototypes (the shorterthe distance of an object away from a proto-type, the more representative of the categorythe object is).
In the case of prepositions, ?ro-to~ypical or ideal meanings are geometrical re-lations between the located object, the objectwhose location is being specified in the sen-tence, and the reference object, the object in-dicating the location of the located object.A second contribution of Herskovits is hercase study of the three locative prepositions'in', 'on', and 'at'.
Our own study of 35 dif-ferent cases is heavily based on this part ofHerskovits' work.2.2.2 Gr imaud's  cont r ibut ionGrimaud (1988) presents a linguistic analy-sis of locative prepositions in English versusFrench.
His theory is based on Lakoff & John-son (1980) and Lakoff (1987) and uses the no-tion of com:eptua//zatioas f objects.
A con-ceptualization is a mental representation f anobject or an idea which takes into considera-tion not only the =objective truth ~ about thatobject or idea, but also human biological per-ception and experience.In his theory, Grimaud suggests that thecases in which the correspondences describedin section 2.1 do not hold are not simply ex-ceptional but rather are due to differencesin the ways that English and French concep-tualize the objects involved in the relation.The reason why the same object can be con-ceptualized as different geometrical objects indifferent languages, given a particular situa-tion, is that objects have several properties(or aspects) and different languages might notchoose to highlight and hide the same proper-ties (or aspects) of a given object in a givensituation.
This happens in (6), for example(under the interpretation i  which the profes-sor is riding the bus rather than being locatedon the roof of the bus)-- English conceptu-alizes the bus as a surface that can supportentities, by highlighting only its bottom plat-form, while French conceptualizes the bus as avolume that can contain entities, by highlight-ing its bottom surface, its sides, and its roofaltogether.
This leads to a difference in theway that English and French express the spa-tial relation: English uses 'on', the preposition154appropriate for expressing a relation betweena point and a surface, and French uses 'dans'(the French equivalent of 'in'), the prepositionappropriate for expressing a relation betweena point and a volume.
The appropriateness ofa preposition for expressing a certain relationis determined by its ideal meanings.2.2.3 Our  synthesisOur task consisted of synthesizing Herskovits'and Grimand's contributions and making thissynthesis uitable for a computational system,since both Herskovits and Grimaud's analysesare mainly linguistic and not directly gearedtowards computation.Our first task was to define the ideal mean-ings of each preposition:AT/k :?
relation between two points.ON/SUIt:?
relation between a point and asurface whose boundaries are ir-relevant.?
relation between a point and aline.IN/DANS:?
relation between a point and abounded surface.?
relation between a point and anempty volume.?
relation between a point and a fullvolume.
~Our next task was to develop a knowledgerepresentation of a conceptualization of an ob-ject, that is, a representation f the way anobject can be conceptualized, given a particu-lar language, a particular situation, etc.
Typ-ically, in our application, these conceptualiza-tions are geometrical objects, such as points,lines, surfaces, and volumes.1 Note that Herskovlts' notion of ideal meaning in-volves more information than ours: rather than thevague term 'relation', Herskovits identifies the specificsort of relation that holds between the two objects,such as coincidence, support, and containment.
Forthe specific problem in translation that we address,such specifications axe unnecessary.
They would benecessary, however, in a system designed for a deeperunderstanding than ours is designed to achieve.Our final task was to design a system oftranslation.
Our system works as follows:given the source-language s ntence, its objec-tive meaning (i.e., its language-independentmeaning) is derived.
This is done by first us-ing the ideal meanings of the source-languagepreposition to find the conceptualization thatapplies to the reference object, and then de-riving the objective meaning of the sentencefrom this conceptualization.
(Because eachconceptualization f an object used as a ref-erence object corresponds to some objectivemeaning, this last step is easily performed.
)Given the objective meaning of the sentence,the conceptualization f the reference objectthat should be used in the target languageis then found.
Finally, using the list of idealmeanings of the target.language prepositionstogether with the target-language conceptual-ization, the system derives the preposition tobe used in the target-language sentence.2.2.4 Other workIndependently, Zelinsky-Wibbelt (1990) tookan.
approach sin~lar to ours to the problem oftranslating locative prepositions.
She workedon translation between English and Germanrather than English~and French.
This sup-ports our hypothesis that the theory we usecan be extended to pairs of languages otherthan English and French.In addition to the types of expressions oursystem translates, her system translates en-tences with verbs other than 'to be'.
Thereason why we chose not to process sen-fences using verbs other than 'to be' was tostudy the prepositions themselves in detail,before addressing the more complicated prob-lem of their interactions with verbs.
Zelinsky-Wibbelt does not refer to any preliminary de-tailed study of the prepositions themselves.We carried on a detailed bilingual study oflocative prepositions by adapting and expand-ing the case studies of Herskovits (1986).3 The Conceptual Repre-sentation of ObjectsThe central entity in our research is theconceptual representation of objects (or con-ceptual representation), which represents aconceptualization together with information155about the conditions necessary for the con-ceptualization to hold.A conceptual representation f an object iscomposed of a conditional part and a descrip-tive part.
The conditional part is a list ofproperties of the object and of its situationin the sentence.
The former kind of prop-erty is objective information about the ob-ject, such as its shape, the parts it is madeof, and its function.
The latter propertiesare whether the object is a located or refer-ence object, and whether the sentence is inEnglish or French.
The descriptive part is adescription of a conceptualization f that ob-ject.
This part is conceptual, rather than ob-jective.
Here follows a detailed escription ofconceptual representations.
23 .1  The  cond i t iona l  par tThe conditional part is made up of the follow-ing types of properties:* The ro/e in the sentence of the object beingconsidered (located or reference object).
3* The/gnguage in which the sentence is ut-tered (English or French).
This condition iscrucial to the system because not all conceptu-aiizations are possible in both languages, andthese differences account for differences in useof the prepositions.
This point is important,for example, for pairs of sentences (4), wherea picture is conceptualized asa volume in En-glish and as a surface in French; for pairs ofsentences (5), where the shade is conceptual-ized as a Volume in English and as a point inFrench; and for pairs of sentences (6), wherea bus is conceptualized asa surface in Englishand as a volume in French.
* The properties of the reference object thatare relevant o the objective spatial relationexpressed in the sentence (these properties are~Certain e~pects of the conceptual representationswere implemented for extensihillty or for the purposesOf'LmhlgUlty and error detection.
For the sake of com-pletez~ss, we describe all aspects in this section, eventhose not directly related to tr~nA|~tion (see Japkowlcz1990 for furthe?
explanation of these aspects).aNote that a located object is cdways conceptual-ized as a point.
This is so because the conceptualiza-tion of the located object has no impact on the useof the prepositions.
It is the conceptualization of thereference object hat is relevant.language independent).
This part of the con-ceptual representation specifies the objectivesituation in which the object being conceptu-alized is involved.
It is central to the systembecause it is common to English and French(since it describes an objective situation) andis the part of the conceptual representationthat allows a matching between English andFrench.
For example, consider (4).
The prop-erties of a picture that are relevant given theobjective meaning of the sentence are the factthat it is the re-creator of an environment,with entities included in that environment,and that it is an object with a very small,almost non-existent, width.
These propertiesare common to English and French.
What dif-fers are the conceptualizations: English high-lights the first property, conceptualizing thepicture as a volume, while French highlightsthe second, considering the width to be non-existent and conceptualizing the picture as asurface.
* World-lmowledge conditions involving thelocated object of the sentence (for ~mple ,whether the located object can be supportedby the reference object).
These conditions areused to check the plausibility of a sentencewith respect o the located object.
For ~Y,~rn.pie, the sentences in (6) are plausible, whilethe sentence(7) The elephant is on the busis not, since an elephant is too heavy to besupported by a bus.
In general, this condi-tion is used to check for abnormalities withinone language rather than to account for dif-ferences between English and French.
Section5 describes how the system detects uch ab-normalities.
* Ez4ra-sentential constraints.
Extra-sentential constraints are pragmatic con-straints, derived from the context in whichthe sentence is uttered, that can influence thechoice of preposition.
For example:(8) The gas station is at the freeway.
\[Her-skovits 1986, p. 138\]This sentence is valid only when the speakerpictures himself or herself as being on a tra-jectory intersecting the reference object at the156point of focus.
At its current state, the sys-tem deals solely with isolated sentences, so itis unable to perform this checking.3.2 The descriptive partThe descriptive part of a conceptual represen-tation includes the following three types of in-formation about the conceptualization: its di.mension, its fullness, and its width.
* Its dimension is the main informationabout the conceptualization.
The possible val-ues of the dimension field include point, line,surface, and volume.
* Its fullness can take the values empty orful/.
Fullness is important when, for example,the dimension is volume.
Consider the follow-ing sentences.
(9) The girl is in the tree.
(10) The nail is in the tree.One needs to differentiate between the situ-ation of (9), in which the located object (thegirl) is located in the tree, and the one of (10),in which the located object (the nail) is em-bedded in the tree.
This distinction, however,is not needed to translate between English andFrench (it might be needed with other lan-guages, though); rather, it is needed to un-derstand the sentence.
* Its width takes the values ezistent or non~-ezistent.
4 Width is important for sentencessuch as those in (4), where the width is con-ceptualized as being non-existent in French,and existent in English, this difference lead-ing to a difference in the use of the locativeprepositions (French uses 'sur' and Englishuses 'in').4Remember that the descriptive part describes con-ceptualizations.
Therefore, when we describe thewidth to be existent or non-existent, it is the widthin the conceptualization that is in question, not thatof the real object.
Objectively, for example, a pic-ture has a width, but  this width is so small that it isignored in some of its conceptualizations.
Objectivelyalso, a picture is the re-creator of an environment.
Theconceptualizations i  which this objective property ishighlighted have an existent width, since environmentscan contain 3-clJmensional entities.4 The  A lgor i thm4.1 OverviewOur method of translation first transformsthe source-language sentence into a source-language representation (the English con-ceptual level), and then translates thesource-language representation into a target-language representation (the French concep-tual level).
This target-language representa-tion is finally used to generate the target-language sentence.
The algorithm works infour phases:i. Initialization2.
Derivation of the objective meaning ofthe sentence3.
Derivation of the target-languagepreposition4.
Finalization4.2 PhasesIn the description that follows, each step isexplained and illustrated with example (6).4.2.1 In|tiAHcatlonThe initialization phase is composed of twosteps.
The first consists of parsing the in-put sentence and returning some informationabout each noun, such as its role in the sen-tence (located or reference object), its Frenchtranslation, and certain useful French mor-phological and syntactic information about it.In sentence (6), for example, this informa-tion is that 'Our professor' is the located ob-ject, that its French translation is 'Notre pro-fesseur', and that 'professeur' is a masculinecommon noun in French; and also that 'bus'is the reference object, that its French trans-lation is 'bus', and that 'bus' is a masculinecommon oun in French.The second step consists of building theconceptual representations of the located andreference objects (see Japkowicz 1990 andJapkowicz & Wiebe 1990).
All possibleconceptual representations are built at thispoint--the discrimination of those that arerelevant to the sentence from the others isclone in the next phase.1574.2.2 Der ivat ion  o f  the  ob jec t ivemean ing  o f  the  sentenceThis phase is also performed in two steps.
Thefirst step identifies the English conceptual rep-resentations relevant o the sentence, accord-ing to the preposition used.
That is, giventhe ideal meaning of the preposition used inthe English sentence, certain conceptual rep-resentations that were built in the previousphase are discarded.
In example (6), the onlyconceptual representation f a bus that will re-main is that of a surface, since the ideal mean-ing of 'on' allows the reference object to be asurface or a line and, while a bus is sometimesconceptualized asa surface, it is never concep-tualized as a line.The second step discards even more concep-tual representations, this time based on thetype and/or properties of the located object.In sentence (6), no conceptual representationis discarded at this point.
This is so becausethe only condition on the located object is thatit can be supported by the reference object,and this condition is verified for (6) because ahuman being can be supported by a bus.
Insentence (7), however, the conceptual repre-sentations of a bus as a surface are discardedbecause an elephant c~nnot be supported bya bus.The second step also builds the objectivemeaning of the sentence.
The objective mean-ing of a sentence is derived from the concep-tual representation chosen in the first step ofthis phase.
Its main component is the proper-~ies field.
This properties field has the sametype of content as the properties field of theconceptual representations.
It is this sharedfield that allows a matching between the En-glish conceptual representation a d an objec-tive meaning.In certain cases, in this step, several objec-tive meanings can be derived.
In these cases,the sentence is ambiguous (see section 5).4.2.3 Der ivat ion  o f  the  ta rget -language prepos i t ionThis phase has, once again, two steps.
Thefirst consists of matching the objective mean-ing of the sentence to a French conceptual-ization.
This can be done in a way similarto that of the previous tep: by matching theproperties field of the objective meaning of thesentence with the properties field of the Frenchconceptual representation f the reference ob-ject.The second step consists of matching aFrench preposition to the French conceptualrepresentation derived by the previous step.This is done in a straight-forward way, usinga look-up table.
In example (6), the Frenchconceptualization is matched to the preposi-tion 'dans'.4.2.4 F ina l izat ionThe Finalization phase consists of only onestep: that of generating the French sentence.In example (6), it is at this point that theFrench version, "Notre professeur est darts lebus", is generated, s4 .3  CoverageWe implemented the system on a large num-ber of cases, where each case is an "objectivesituation ~, such as an object being on a hori-zontal support or an object being in a closedenvironment.
There are 35 cases, which canbe divided into the following three categories:?
Specific, i.e., cases in which the ref-erence object is a given object; theexpressions 'on the wall' (meaningagainst the wall), 'at  sea', and 'in theair' are the specific cases in the system.?
Semi-genera~ i.e., cases in which thereference object belongs to a well de-fined category of objects.
Examples arebeing in a country (e.g., ' in England'and 'in France') and being in a pieceof clothing (e.g., 'in a hat',  'in a shirt',and 'in a pair of shorts').?
Genera~ i.e., cases in which the refer-ence object belongs to an abstract ea~egory of objects.
Examples are beingon a planar surface (e.g., 'on the table','on the floor', 'on the chair', and 'on theroof') and being at an artifact with agiven purpose (e.g., 'at the door', 'athis books', 'at his desk', and 'at histypewriter').SNote that we are not taking ambiguity into con-aideratlon here.
If we were, then the sentence "Notreprofesseur est Bur le bus."
would also be generated(mearfing that our professor ison the roof of the bus).This ca~e will be discussed in section 5.158Of the 35 cases, only 3 are in the specificcategory.
Of the remaining, 18 cases are inthe semi-general category and 14 are in thegeneral category.5 Error and AmbiguityDetect ionThe conceptual representations that were de-signed for the purpose of translation can alsobe used to detect certain kinds of errors andambiguities.
Below, we describe two kindsthat can be detected by the system: concep-tual errors and conceptual ambiguity.5 .1 Conceptua l  e r rorsThe system can detect wo types of conceptualerrors: conceptualization errors and usage er-rors or abnormalities.5.1.1 Conceptua l i zat ion  er rorsConceptualization errors occur when thepreposition requires the reference object to beconceptualized in a way that it cannot be inthe language considered.
An example of a sen-tence where such an error occurs is(11) * The boy is at the shade.This sentence is erroneous because 'at' re-quires 'shade' to be conceptualized asa point,but 'shade' used as a reference object cannever be conceptualized asa point in English.This error can be detected by the system be-cause no conceptual representation f shade asa reference object is built whose conceptual-ization is point.
This error is detected in thefirst step of the second phase of the system.5.1.2 Usage er rors  and abnormal i t iesUsage errors and abnormalities occur whenthe demands of the preposition are satisfiedby the reference object, but the conditious re-quired of the located object by the conceptualrepresentation, or general conditions requiredof all types of relations , are not.
Such an erroroccurs in the following:(12) * The man is in the board.The use of 'in' is fine, considering just the ref-erence object; for example, a nail can be lo-cated in a board.
The problem is that thelocated object is 'man', and a man cannot beembedded in a board under normal circum-stances.
This error is detected by the systembecause the condition on the located object(in the conditional part of the conceptual rep-resentation) is not verified.
This error is de-tected in the second step of the second phaseof the system.5 .2  Conceptua l  ambigu i t iesConceptual ambiguity is ambiguity where theEnglish preposition has several meanings inFrench.
The system can detect two types ofconceptual ambiguities: simple and complex.Both are detected uring the first step of thesecond phase of the system.5.2.1 S imple conceptua l  amblgu l tyIn the case of simple conceptual mbiguity, anambiguous English preposition is translatedinto a single French preposition that is am-biguous in the same way.
For example:(18) The boy is at the supermarket.Sentence (13) can be understood to mean ei-ther that the boy is shopping at the supermar-ket, or that he is on a trajectory going by thesupermarket, and is currently located at thesupermarket.
Its French translation is(14) Le garcon est au supermarch~,which carries the same ambiguity as the En-glish sentence.
This type of ambiguity is de-tected when several English conceptual rep-resentatious can be iustantiated for a singlesentence.
All instantiated English concep-tual representations have:identical descriptiveparts.
In the case of simple conceptual am-biguity, all the French conceptual represen-tations happen to have the same descriptivepart.5.2.2 Complex  conceptua l  ambigu i tyThe difference between simple and complexconceptual ambiguity is the following: in theformer, the French sentence carries the sameambiguity as the English sentence, but in thelatter, the ambiguity is not carried throughthe translation (so the English sentence hastwo different French translations).
Complexconceptual ambiguity is present in (6), whichis repeated here as sentence (15):159(15) Our professor is on the bus.As discussed earlier, this sentence is ambigu-ous in that the professor could be riding thebus, or he could be located on the roof ofthe bus.
This sentence is translated into twoFrench sentences, one for each case: e(16) Notre professeur est daus le bus.
(17) Notre professeur est sur le bus.In (16), the professor is riding the bus, whilein (17), he is located on the roof of the bus.This type of ambiguity is detected in the sameway as simple conceptual mbiguity, the onlydifference being that in the complex case, allthe French conceptual representations do nothave the same descriptive parts.6 ConclusionIn this paper, we have described a system oftranslation for locative prepositions that usesHerskovits' idea of the ideal meaning of prepo-sitions and Lakoff's idea of ICM's.
While ourwork does not prove the linguistic and psycho-logical theories on which it is based, it suggeststhat they can be useful in machine transla-tion.
We chose to use conceptual knowledgeto deal with the translation of locative prepo-sitions, first, because it provides an elegant so-lution to the problem, and second, because webelieve that conceptual knowledge of the sortthat we use could be useful in other cognitivetasks such as story understanding, vision, androbot planning.7 AcknowledgmentsWe wish to thank Graeme Hirst for invaluablecomments and detailed readings of many ver-sions of this work, and to gratefully acknowl-edge the financial support of the Departmentof Computer Science, University of Toronto,and the Natural Sciences and Engineering Re-search Council of Canada.and French," Journal of the American Socieiyof Gcolinguistics, vol.
14, pp.
54-76, 1988.\[Herskovits 1986\] A. Herskovits, Zanguage andSpatial Cognition: An Interdisciplinary Studyof the Prepositions in English, CambridgeUniversity Press, Cambridge, MA, 1986.\[Japkowicz 1990\] N. Japkowicz, "The Trans-lation of Basic Topological Prepositions fromEnglish into French," M.S.
Thesis, publishedas Technical Report CSRI-~3, University ofToronto, 1990.\[3apkowics & Wiebe 1990\] N. Japkowics& J. Wiebe, "Using Conceptual Informa-tion to Translate Locative Prepositions fromEnglish into French," Current Treads inSNePS--Proceediugs of the 1990 t#or~hop,Ali, Chalupsky, Kumar (eds.
), forthcoming.\[Lakoff & Johnson 1980\] G. Lakoff & M.Johnson, Metaphors we Zire by, University ofChicago Press, Chicago, 1980.\[Lakoff 1987\] G. Lakoff, Women, Fire, andDangerous Things: What Categories Revealabout the Mind, University of Chicago Press,Chicago, 1987.\[Rosch 1977\] E. Rosch, "Human Categoriza-tion," in Advances in Cross-Cultural Psychol-ogy, voL 1, N. Warren (ed.
), pp.
1-49, Aca-demic Press, London, 1977.\[Zelinsky-Wibbelt 1990\] C. Zelinsky-Wibbelt,"The Semantic Representation of Spatial Con-figurations: a conceptual motivation for gen-eration in Machine Translation," Proceedingsof the lSth International Conference on Com-putational Linguistics, vol.
3, pp.
299-303,1990.8 References\[Grimaud 1988\] M. Grimaud, '~roponyrns,Prepositions, and Cognitive Maps in EnglishSin sections 1, 2, and  3, ody  the fu'st case wasconsidered.160
