DISCOURSE RELATIONS AND DEFEASIBLE KNOWLEDGE*Alex  Lascar ides  tHuman Communication Research CentreUniversity of Edinburgh2 Buccleuch Place, Edinburgh, EH8 9LWScotlandalex@uk, ac.
ed.
cogsc?Nicholas AsherCenter for Cognitive ScienceUniversity of TexasAustin, Texas 78712USAasher@sygmund, cgs.
utexas, eduAbstractThis paper presents a formal account of thetemporal interpretation of text.
The distinct nat-ural interpretations of texts with similar syntaxare explained in terms of defeasible rules charac-terising causal laws and Gricean-style pragmaticmaxims.
Intuitively compelling patterns of defea,-sible entailment that are supported by the logicin which the theory is expressed are shown to un-derly temporal interpretation.The ProblemThe temporal interpretation of text involves anaccount of how the events described are relatedto each other.
These relations follow from thediscourse relations that are central to temporalimport.
1 Some of these are listed below, wherethe clause a appears in the text before fl:Narration(a,fl): The event described in fl isa consequence of (but not necessarily caused by)tile event described in a:(1) Max stood up.
John greeted him.Elaboration(a,~): The event described in /?contributes to the occurrence of the culmination*This paper is greatly influenced by work reported in(Lascarides & Oberlander, 1991).
We would llke to thankHans Kamp, Michael Morreau and .Ion Oberlander fortheir significant contributions to the content of this pa-per.
All mistakes are solely our responsibility.t The support of the Science and Engineering ResearchCouncil through project number GR/G22077 is gratefullyacknowledged.
HCRC is supported by the Economic andSocial Research Council.1 Extensive classifications of discourse relations are of-fered in (Polanyi, 1985), (Scha & Polanyi, 1988) and(Thompson & Mann, 1987).of the event described in a, i.e.
fl's event is partof the preparatory phase of a's: 2(2) The council built the bridge.
The architectdrew up the plans.Explanation(a, fl): For example the event de-scribed in clause fl caused the event described inclause a:(3) Max fell.
John pushed him.Background(a, fl): For example the state de-scribed in fl is the 'backdrop' or circumstancesunder which the event in a occurred (so the eventand state temporally overlap):(4) Max opened the door.
The room was pitchdark.Result(a, fl): The event described in a causedthe event or state described in fl:(5) Max  switched off the light.
The room waspitch dark.We assume that more than one discourse re-lation can hold between two sentences; the sick-ness in (6) describes the circumstances when Maxtook the aspirin (hence the sentences are relatedby Background) and also explains why he tookthe aspirin (hence the sentences are related byExplanation as well).
(6) Max took an aspirin.
He was sick.The sentences in texts (1) and (3) and in (4)and (5) have similar syntax, and therefore similar2We assume Moens and Steedman's (1988) tripartitestructure of events, where an event consists of a prepara-tory phase, a culmination and a consequent phase.55logical forms.
They indicate, therefore, that theconstraints on the use of the above discourse re-lations cannot rely solely on the logical forms ofthe sentences concerned.No theory at present is able to explain the dis-tinct temporal structures of all the above texts.Webber (1988) observes that Kamp & Rohrer(1983), Partee (1984), Hinrichs (1986) and Dowty(1986) don't account for the backwards movementof time in (2) and (3).
Webber (1988) can accountfor the backwards movement of time in (2), buther theory is unable to predict hat mismatchingthe descriptive order of events and their temporalorder is allowed in some cases (e.g.
(2) and (3))but not in others (e.g.
(1), which would be mis-leading if the situation being described were onewhere the greeting happened before Max stoodup).Our aim is to characterise the circumstancesunder which each of the above discourse relationshold, and to explain why texts can invoke dif-ferent emporal relations in spite of their similarsyntax.Dahlgren (1988) represents the difference be-tween (1) and (3) in terms of probabilistic lawsdescribing world knowledge (WK) and linguisticknowledge (LK).
Our approach to the problemis generally sympathetic to hers.
But Dahlgren'saccount lacks an underlying theory of inference.Furthermore, it's not clear how a logical conse-quence relation could be defined upon Dahlgren'srepresentation scheme because the probabilisticlaws that need to interact in certain specific waysare not logically related.
Unlike Dahlgren (1988),we will supply an inference regime that drives theinterpretation f text.The properties required of an inference mech-anism for inferring the causal structure underly-ing text is discussed in (Lascarides & Oberlander,1991).
The work presented here builds on this intwo ways; first by supplying the required notion ofinference, and second by accounting for discoursestructure as well as temporal structure.Temporal Relations andDefeasible ReasoningLet us consider texts (1) and (3) on an intu-itive level.
There is a difference in the relationthat typically holds between the events being de-scribed.
Intuitively, world knowledge (WK) in-eludes a causal 'law' gained from perception andexperience that relates falling and pushing: 3?
Causa l  Law 3Connected events el where x falls and e2where y pushes z are normally such that e2causes e l .There is no similar law for standing up and greet-ing.
The above law is a de feasible law.
Our claimis that it forms the basis for the distinction be-tween (1) and (3), and that defeasible reasoningunderlies the temporal interpretation f text.First consider text (1).
Intuitively, if thereis no temporM information at all gained fromWK or syntactic markers (apart from the simplepast tense which is the only temporal 'expres-sion' we consider here), then the descriptive orderof events provides the only vital clue as to theirtemporal order, and one assumes that descriptiveorder matches temporal order.
This principle isa re-statement of Grice's (1975) maxim of Man-ner, where it is suggested that text should be or-derly, and it is also motivated by the fact thatthe author typically describes events in the or-der in which the protagonist perceives them (cf.Dowty (1986)).
This maxim of interpretation canbe captured by the following two laws:?
Narrat ionUnless there's information to the contrary,clauses a and j3 that are discourse-relatedare such that Narration(a, ~) holds.?
Axiom for Narrat ionIf Narration(a, fl) holds, and a and fi de-scribe the events el and e2 respectively, thenel occurs before e2.Narration is defensible and the Axiom for Narra-tion is indefeasible.
The idea that Gricean-stylepragmatic maxims should be represented as de-feasible rules is suggested in (Joshi, Webber &Weischedel (1984)).The above rules can be defined in MASH--alogic for defensible reasoning described in (Asher& Morrean, 1991).
We will demonstrate shortlythat an intuitively compelling pattern of defensi-ble inference can then underly the interpretationof (1).MASH supplies a modal semantics for a lan-guage with a default or generic quantifier, and a3The causal aw's index corresponds to the index of thetext for which it is relevant.56dynamic partial semantics of belief states is builton top of this modal semantics to c~pture intu-itively compelling patterns of non-monotonic tea-soning.
We use a propositional version of MASHhere.
Defaults are represented as ?
> ?
(readas "?
then ?, unless there is information to thecontrary").
The monotonic omponent of the the-ory defines a notion of validity ~ that supportsaxioms such as ~ \[:3(?
--* ?)
~ ((X > ?)
--~(X > ?)).
The dynamic belief theory supplies thenonmonotonic component, and the correspondingnonmonotonic validity, ~ ,  describes what reason-able entailments follow from the agent's beliefs.supports (at least) the following patterns ofcommon sense reasoning:Defensible Modus  Ponens?>?,?
~ ?but not ?>?,?
, -~?
~ ?e.g.
Birds fly, Tweety is a bird ~ Tweety flies,but not: Birds fly, Tweety is a bird that doesn'tfly ~ Tweety flies.Pengu in  Pr inc ip le?
>?,?>C?>-~,?
~-~ibut not: ?
> ?
,?
:> ( ,?
> -,( ,?
~ (e.g.
Penguins are birds, Birds fly, Penguins don'tfly, Tweety is a Penguin ~ Tweety doesn't fly,and does not ~ Tweety flies.N ixon D iamondnot (?
> ?
, I  > "?
,?
, (  ~ ?
(or --?))e.g.
There is irresolvable conflict in the follow-ing: Quakers are pacifists, Republicans are non-pacifists, Nixon is a Quaker and Republican.We assume a dynamic theory of discourse struc-ture construction in which a discourse structureis built up through the processing of successiveclauses in a text.
To simplify our exposition,we will assume that the basic constructs of thesestructures are clauses.
4 Let (4,13) mean that theclause ~ is to be attached to the clause a with adiscourse relation, where a is part of the alreadybuilt up discourse structure.
Let me(a) be a termthat refers to the main eventuality described bya (e.g.
me(Max stood up) is the event of Maxstanding up).
5 Then Narration and the axiomon Narration are represented in MASH as follows(cl -~ e.~ means "el wholly occurs before e2"):4The theory should extend naturally to an accountwhere the basic constructs are segments of text; theapproach adopted here is explored extensively in Asher(forthcoming).5me(c~) is formally defined in Lascarides & Asher(1991) in a way that agrees with intuitions.?
Nar ra t ion(or, ~) > Narration(c~,~3)?
Ax iom on  Nar ra t ionr~ (Na,','atio,~(~, ) --, me(~) ~ me(Z))We assume that in interpreting text the readerbelieves all LK and WK (and therefore believesNarration and its axiom), the laws of logic, andthe sentences in the text.
The sentences in (1) arerepresented in a DnT-type framework as follows: 6(7) \[e1,~1\]\[~1 <now,  hold(el,Q),s~andup(rn, el)\](8) \[~, t~\]\[t2 < now, hold(~2, t2),gr~t(j, m, ~2)\]In words, (7) invokes two discourse referents eland ~1 (which behave like deictic expressions),where el is an event of Max standing up, tl isa point of time earlier than now and et occurs atit.
(8) is similar save that the event e2 describesJohn greeting Max.
(7) and (8) place no condi-tions on the relative temporal order between etand e2.
These are derived at a higher level of anal-ysis than sentential semantics by using defensiblereasoning.Suppose that the reader also believes that theclauses in text (1) are related by some discourserelation, as they must be for the text to be coher-ent.
Then the reader's beliefs also include (7, 8).The natural interpretation of (1) is derived bycalculating the common sense entailments fromthe reader's belief state.
Given the assumptionson this state that we have just described, the an-tecedent to Narration is verified, and so by Defen-sible Modus Ponens, Narration(7, 8) is inferred.Since the belief states in MASH support modal clo-sure, this result and the Axiom on Narration en-tail that the reader believes the main eventualityof (7), namely el, precedes the main eventualityof (8), namely e2.
So the intuitive discourse struc-ture and temporal interpretation of (1) is derivedby exploiting defeasible knowledge that expressesa Gricean-style pragmatic maxim.But the analysis of (1) is satisfactory only ifthe same technique of exploiting defeasible rulescan be used to obtain the appropriate natural in-terpretation of (3), which is different from (1) inspite of their similar syntax.eFor the sake of simplicity we ignore the problem ofresolving the NP anaphora in (8).
The truth definitionsof (7) and (8) are llke those given in DRT save that theyare evaluated with respect o a possible world index sinceMASH is modal.67(3) a. Max fell.b.
John pushed him.As we mentioned before, Causal Law 3 will pro-vide the basis for the distinct interpretations of(1) and (3).
The clauses in (3) must be relatedby a discourse relation for the text to be coherent,and therefore given the meanings of the discourserelations, the events described must be connectedsomehow.
Therefore when considering the do-main of interpreting text, one can re-state theabove causal law as follows: 7Causa l  Law 3Clauses a and/3 that are discourse-relatedwhere a describes an event el of x fallingand/3 describes an event e~ of y pushing xare normally such that e2 causes el.The representation f this in MASH is:Causa l  Law 3(a , /3 )^f .n (x ,  me(a))^push(y,  x, me(/3)) >ca~se(m~(~), me(a))This represents a mixture of WK and linguisticknowledge (LK), for it asserts that given the sen-tences are discourse-related somehow, and giventhe kinds of events that are described by thesesentences, the second event described caused thefirst, if things are normal.The logical forms for (3a) and (3b) are thesame as (7) and (8), save that standup and greetare replaced respectively with fall and push.Upon interpreting (3), the reader believes all de-feasible wK and LK together with (3a), (3b) and(3a, 3b).
Hence the antecedents o two defeasiblelaws are satisfied: Narration and Causal Law 3.Moreover, the antecedent of Law 3 entails thatof Narration, and the laws conflict because of theaxiom on Narration and the axiom that causesprecede ffects:?
Causes  P recede  E f fec ts\[\] (Vele2)(cause(el, e2) ~ ~e2 -~ el)The result is a 'Complex' Penguin Principle: itis complex because the consequents of the twodefeasible laws are not ~ and -~ff, but instead thelaws conflict in virtue of the above axioms.
MASHsupports the more complex Penguin Principle:;'This law may seem very 'specific'.
It could potentiallybe generalised, perhaps by re-stating el as x moving ande2 as y applying a force to x.
For the sake of brevity weignore this generalisation.?
Complex  Pengu in  P r inc ip leo(?
?),?
> x,?
> ?, o(x 0),\[\] (?
?but not: \[\] (?
--* ?
), ?
> X, ?
> (,o (x 0), n (?
- .
?
xTherefore there is a defeasible inference that thepushing caused the falling from the premises, asrequired.The use of the discourse relation Explanationis characterised by the following rule:?
Exp lanat ion(a, A >Explanation(a, jr)In words, if a and f~ are discourse-related and theevent described in/3 caused the event described ina, then Explanation(a, ~) normally holds.
Fur-thermore, Explanation imposes a certain tempo-ral structure on the events described so that ifis a causal explanation of a then fPs event doesn'tprecede a's:?
Ax iom on  Exp lanat ion\[\] (Explanation(a,/3) -~ -~me(a ) -~ rne(/3 ) )The antecedent to Narration is verified by thereader's beliefs, and given the results of the Com-plex Penguin Principle above, the antecedent toExplanation is also verified.
Moreover, the an-tecedent to Explanation entails that of Narration,and these laws conflict because of the above ax-ioms.
So there is another complex Penguin Prin-ciple, from which Explanation(3a, 3b) is inferred.The second application of the Penguin Prin-ciple in the above used the results of the first,but in nonmonotonic reasoning one must be waryof dividing theories into 'subtheories' in this waybecause adding premises to nonmonotonic deduc-tions does not always preserve conclusions, mak-ing it necessary to look at the theory as a whole.
(Lascarides & Asher, 1991) shows that the pred-icates involved in the above deduction are suffi-ciently independent that in MASH one can indeeddivide the above into two applications of the Pen-guin Principle to yield inferences from the theoryas a whole.
Thus our intuitions about the kind ofreasoning used in analysing (3) are supported inthe logic.
We call this double application of thePenguin Principle where the second applicationuses the results of the first the Cascaded PenguinPrinciple.
s8On a general level, MASH is designed so that the con-58Dis t inc t  D iscourse  S t ructuresCertain constraints are imposed on discoursestructure: Let R be Explanation or Elaboration;then the current sentence can be discourse re-lated only to the previous sentence a, to a sen-tence fl such that R(fl, a), or to a sentence 7 suchthat R(7, fl) and R(~, a).
This is a simpler ver-sion of the definition for possible attachment sitesin Asher (forthcoming).
Pictorially, the possi-ble sites for discourse attachment in the examplestructure below are those marked open:OpenExp lana~ lanati?nClosed OpenNarrationExplanation/// ~xplanationClosed ~ Open NarrationThere are structural similarities between ournotion of openness and Polanyi's (1985).
Theabove constraints on attachment explain the awk-wardness of text (9a-f) because (9c) is not avail-able to (gf) for discourse attachment.
(9) a.
Guy experienced a lovely evening lastnight.b.
He had a fantastic meal.c.
He ate salmon.d.
He devoured lots of cheese.e.
He won a dancing competition.f.
?He boned the salmon with great ex-pertise.According to the constraint on attachment, theonly available sentence for attachment if one wereto add a sentence to (1) is John greeted him,whereas in (3), both sentences are available.
Thusalthough the sentences in (1) and (3) were as-signed similar structural semantics, they have verydifferent discourse structures.
The events theyflict between defeasible laws whose antecedents axe suchthat  one of them entai ls  the other is resolvable.
Thus un-wanted irresolvable conflicts can be avoided.describe also have different causal structures.
Thesedistinctions have been characterised in terms ofdefeasible rules representing causal aws and prag-matic maxims.
We now use this strategy to anal-yse the other texts we mentioned above.E laborat ionConsider text (2).
(2) a.
The council built the bridge.b.
The architect drew up the plans.We conclude Elaboration(2a, 2b) in a very sim-ilar way to example (3), save that we replacecause(me(~), me(a)) in the appropriate defensi-ble rules with prep(me(~), me(a)),  which meansthat rne(~) is part of the preparatory phase ofme(a).
In Law 2 below, Info(a,~) is a gloss for"the event described in a is the council build-ing the bridge, and the event described in fl isthe architect drawing up the plans", and the lawrepresents the knowledge that drawing plans andbuilding the bridge, if connected, are normallysuch that the former is in the preparatory phaseof the latter:?
E laborat ion(a, ^ prep( e( ), me(a)) >Elaboration(a, fl )?
Ax iom on E laborat io~n (Elaboration(a, - *    ne(a)?
Law 2(a,/3) ^  Info(a, > prep(me(Z), )The inference pattern is a Cascaded Penguin Prin-ciple again.
The two resolvable conflicts are Law2 and Narration and Elaboration and Narration.BackgroundIntuitively, the clauses in (4) are related by Back-ground.
(4) Max opened the door.
The room was pitchdark.The appropriate reader's belief state verifies theantecedent of Narration.
In addition, we claimthat the following laws hold:59?
S ta tes  Over lap(a, A state(me( )) >overlap(me(a), me( )?
Background(a, Z> ^  overlap(me(a), me(Z)) >Background(a, fl )?
Ax iom on Background\[\] (Background(a,overlap(me(a), me(~) ) )States Overlap ensures that when attached clausesdescribe an event and state and we have no knowl-edge about how the event and state are connected,gained from WK or syntactic markers like becauseand therefore, we assume that they temporallyoverlap.
This law can be seen as a manifesta-tion of Grice's Maxim of Relevance as suggestedin (Lascarides, 1990): if the start of the state isnot indicated by stating what caused it or by in-troducing an appropriate syntactic marker, thenby Grice's Maxim of Relevance the starting point,and is irrelevant o the situation being described.So the start of the state must have occurred be-fore the situation that the text is concerned withoccurs.
As before, we assume that unless there isinformation to the contrary, the descriptive orderof eventualities marks the order of their discovery.This together with the above assumption aboutwhere the state starts entail that unless there'sinformation to the contrary, the state temporallyoverlaps events or states that were described pre-viously, as asserted in States Overlap.We assume that the logical form of the sec-ond clause in (4) entails state(me(~)) by theclassification of the predicate dark as stative.So Background is derived from the CascadedPenguin Principle: the two resolvable conflictsare States Overlap and Narration and Back-ground and Narration.
States Overlap and Nar-ration conflict because of the inconsistency ofoverlap(el,e~) and el -~ e~; Background andNarration conflict because of the axioms for Back-ground and Narration.Result(5) has similar syntax to (4), and yet unlike (4)the event causes the state and the discourse rela-tion is Result.
(5) a. Max switched off the light.b.
The room was pitch dark.Let Info(a,fl) be a gloss for "me(a) is Maxswitching off the light and me(fl) is the room be-ing dark".
So by the stative classification of dark,Info(a, fl) entails state(me(~)).
Then Law 5 re-flects the knowledge that the room being dark andswitching off the light, if connected, are normallysuch that the event causes the state: 9?
Causa l  Law 5(a,/7) A Info(a,~) > cause(me(a), me(/7))The use of the discourse relation of Result is char-acterised by the following:?
Resu l t(a, )^eause(me( ), >?
Ax iom on  Resu l tD(Result(a,~) --.
me(a) ~ me(fl))The reader's beliefs in analysing (5) verify the an-tecedents of Narration, States Overlap and Law5.
Narration conflicts with States Overlap, whichin turn conflicts with Law 5.
Moreover, the an-tecedent of Law 5 entails that of States Overlap,which entails that of Narration.
So there is a'Penguin-type' conflict where Law 5 has the mostspecific antecedent.
In MASH Law 5's consequent,i.e.
cause(me(ha), me(hb)), is inferred from thesepremises.
The antecedent of Result is thus sat-isfied, but the antecedent to Background is not.Result does not conflict with Narration, and soby Defeasible Modus Ponens, both Result(ha, 5b)and Narration(ha, hb) are inferred.Note that thanks to the axioms on Backgroundand Result and the inconsistency ofoverlap(el, e~)and el -~ e2, these discourse relations are in-consistent.
This captures the intuition that ifa causes b, then b could not have been the casewhen a happened.
In particular, if Max switchingoff the light caused the darkness, then the roomcould not have been dark when Max switched offthe light.Discourse  Popp ingCons ider  text  (9a-e):(9) a.
Guy experienced a lovely evening lastnight.b.
He had a fantastic meal.9For the sake of simplicity, we ignore the problem ofinferring that  the light is in the room.60c.
He ate salmon.d.
lie devoured lots of cheese.e.
He won a dancing competition.The discourse structure for (9a-d) involves Cas-caded Penguin Principles and Defeasible ModusPonens as before.
Use is made of the defeasibleknowledge that having a meal is normally part ofexperiencing a lovely evening, and eating salmonand devouring cheese are normally part of havinga meal if these events are connected:Guy experienced a lovely evening last nightElaborationHe had a fantastic mealElabora~-~f~~borationlie ate salmon He devouredNarration lots Of cheeseWe study the attachment of (9e) to the preced-ing text in detail.
Given the concept of opennessintroduced above, the open clauses are (9d), (95)and (9a).
So by the assumptions on text pro-cessing, the reader believes (9d, 9e), (9b, 9e) and(9a, 9e).
(9d, 9e) verifies the antecedent to Narra-tion, but intuitively, (9d) is not related to (9e) atall.
The reason for this can be explained in wordsas follows:?
(9d) and (9e) don't form a narrative be-cause:- Winning a dance competition is nor-mally not part Of a meal;- So (9e) doesn't normally elaborate (9b);- But since (9d) elaborates (95), (9e) cannormally form a narrative with (9d)only if (9e) also elaborates (9b).Thcse intuitions can be formalised, where Info(a, fl)is a. gloss for "me(a) is having a meal and me(fl)is winning a dance competition":* Law 9(a, ^ I fo( , Z) >  prep(me( ), me(.))?
Defeaslbly Necessary Test forElaboration(a, ^ >-~ Elaboration( a, fl)?
Const ra int  on NarrationElaboration((~, fll)A-~Eiaboration( a, f12 ) >-~ N arration(~t , ~2 )The result is a 'Nixon Polygon'.
There is irre-solvable conflict between Narration and the Con-straint on Narration because their antecedents arenot logically related:Narration(9d, 9e)-~Elaboration(9b, e)Elaboration(9b, 9e)l (9d,De)(9d, 9e)-~prep(me(9b, 9e))E laborat ion(~(9d, 9e)Info(9b, 9e)Elaboration(9b, 9d)The above in MASH yields \]i~Narration(9d, 9e)and ~-~Narration(9d, 9e).
We assume that be-lieving (9d, 9e) and failing to support any dis-course relation between (9d) and (9e) is inco-herent.
So (9d,9e) cannot be believed.
Thusthe Nixon Diamond provides the key to discourse'popping', for (9e) must be related to one of theremaining open clauses; i.e.
(95) or (9a).
In factby making use of the knowledge that winning adance competition is normally part of experienc-ing a lovely evening if these things are connected,Elaboration(9a, 9e) and Narration(9b, 9e) followas before, in agreement with intuitions.ConclusionWe have proposed that distinct natural inter-pretations of texts with similar syntax can be ex-plained in terms of defeasible rules that represent61causal laws and Gricean-style pragmatic maxims.The distinct discourse relations and event rela-tions arose from intuitively compelling patternsof defeasible ntailment.
The Penguin Principlecaptures the intuition that a reader never ignoresinformation salient in text that is relevant to cal-culating temporal and discourse structure.
TheNixon Diamond provided the key to 'popping'from subordinate discourse structure.We have investigated the analysis of texts in-volving only the simple past tense, with no othertemporal markers present.
Lascarides & Asher(1991) show that the strategy pursued here canbe applied to the pluperfect as well.
Future workwill involve extending the theory to handle textsthat feature temporal connectives and adverbials.ReferencesAsher, Nicholas \[forthcoming\] Abstract Objects,Semantics and Anaphora.Asher, Nicholas & Morreau, Michael \[1991\]Common Sense Entailment: A Modal Theory ofNonmonotonic Reasoning, in Carlson, Greg &Pelletier, Jeff (eds.)
The Generic Book, Proceed-ings to JELIA90, University of Chicago Press.Dahlgren, Kathleen \[1988\] Naive Semantics forNatural Language Understanding, Kluwer Aca-demic Publishers; Boston, USA.Dowty, David \[1986\] The Effects of AspeetualClass on the Temporal Structure of Discourse: Se-mantics or Pragmatics?
Linguistics and Philoso-phy, 9, 37-61.Grice, H. Paul \[1975\] Logic and Conversation.In Cole, P. and Morgan, J. L.
(eds.)
Syntaz andSemantics, Volume 3: Speech Acts, pp41-58.
NewYork: Academic Press.Itinrichs, Erhard \[1986\] Temporal Anaphora inDiscourses of English.
Linguistics and Philoso-phy, 9, 63-82.Joshi, Aravind, Webber, Bonnie L. &Weischedel, Ralph \[1984\] Default Reasoning inInteraction.
In Proceedings of the Non-MonotonicReasoning Workshop, AAAI, New York, October,1984, 144-150.Kamp, Hans \[1981\] A Theory of Truth and Se-mantic Representation.
I  Groenendijk, J.
A. G.,Janssen, T. M. V. and Stokhof, M. B. J.
(eds.
)Formal Methods in the Study of Language, Vol-ume 136, pp277-322.
Amsterdam: MathematicalCentre Tracts.Kamp, Hans & Rohrer, Christian \[1983\] Tensein Texts.
In Bauerle, R., Schwarze, C. and yonStechow, A.
(eds.)
Meaning, Use and Interpreta-tion of Language, pp250-269.
Berlin: de Gruyter.Lascarides, Alex \[1990\] Knowledge, Causalityand Temporal Representation.
Research ReportNo.
HCRC/RP-8, Human Communication Re-search Centre, University of Edinburgh, Edin-burgh, June, 1990.Lascarides, Alex & Asher, Nicholas \[1991\] Dis-course Relations and Common Sense Entailment,DYANA deliverable 2.5b, available from Centre forCognitive Science, University of Edinburgh.Lascarides, Alex & Oberlander, Jon \[1991\] Tem-poral Coherence and Defeasible Knowledge.
InProceedings to the Workshop on Discourse Co-herence, Edinburgh, April 1991.Moens, Marc & Steedman, Mark \[1988\] Tem-poral Ontology and Temporal Reference.
Com-putational Linguistics, 14, 15-28.Partee, Barbara \[1984\] Nominal and TemporalAnaphora.
Linguistics and Philosophy, 7, 243-286.Polanyi, Livia \[1985\] A Theory of DiscourseStructure and Discourse Coherence.
In Eilfort,W.
H., Kroeber, P. D. and Peterson, K. L.
(eds.
)Papers from the General Session at the Twenty-First Regional Meeting of the Chicago LinguisticsSociety, Chicago, April 25-27, 1985.Scha, Remko & Polanyi, Livia \[1988\] An Aug-mented Context Free Grammar.
In Proceedingsof the 121h International Conference on Compu-tational Linguistics and the 24th Annual Meetingof the Association for Computalional Linguistics,Budapest, Hungary, 22-27 August, 1988, 573-577.Thompson, Sandra A.
& Mann, William C.\[1987\] Rhetorical Structure Theory: A Frame-work for the Analysis of Texts.
InternationalPragmaties Association Papers in Pragmatics, 1,79-105.Webber, Bonnie \[1988\] Tense as DiscourseAnaphor.
Computational Linguistics, 14, 61-73.62
