Event-building through Role-filling and Anaphora ResolutionGreg Whi t temoreElectronic Data  Systems Corp.5951 Jefferson Street N.E.A lbuquerque,  NM 87109-3432greg@edsr.eds.comMelissa MacphersonElectronic Data  Systems Corp.5951 Jefferson Street  N.E.A lbuquerque,  NM 87109-3432mel issa@edsr .eds.eomGreg CarlsonLinguistics Program,  Univers i ty  of RochesterRochester ,  NYgrca~uorvm.b i tnetABSTRACTIn this study we map out a way to build eventrepresentations incrementally, using informationwhich may be widely distributed across a dis-course.
An enhanced Discourse Representation(Kamp, 1981) provides the vehicle both for car-rying open event roles through the discourse untilthey can be instantiated by NPs, and for resolvingthe reference of these otherwise problematic NPsby binding them to the event roles.INTRODUCTIONThe computational linguistics literature includesa wide variety of ideas about how to representevents in as much detail as is required for reason-ing about their implications.
Less has been writ-ten about how to use information in text to incre-mentally build those event representations a dis-course progresses, especially when the identifica-tion of event participants and other details is dis-persed across a number of structures.
We will beconcerned here with providing a representationalframework for this incremental event-building, andwith using that representation toexamine the waysin which reference to the internal structure ofevents contributes to discourse cohesion.
That is,we will be interested both in the process of gleaningfully-specified event descriptions from continuoustext, and in showing how individual elements of anevent's internal structure can behave anaphorically.Examples of the kinds of linkages that must bedealt with in building representations of eventsfrom text follow:la) He was bel ieved Co be a liar.b) We promised him to be truthful.c) He t r ied  to  keep h is  mouth shut .2a) Joe gave Pete  a book to  read.b) Joe gave Pete  a book to  impress  him.c)  Joe asked Pete  fo r  a book to  read.d) I asked Joe fo r  a book to  impress  Sam.e) Joe gave Pete  the  message to  saveh is  sk in .3a) Joe to ld  Pete  that  to  err  is  human.b) He to ld  us that  to  qu i t  eou ld  be s i l l y .4a) GM will broaden col laborat ion withLotus to make a new car.b) Mary thought that an argument withherself  would be entertaining.c) Mary thought that a conference withhimself would make John look silly.The examples in (1) are familiar cases of syntac-tically obligatory control; we will consider their be-havior to be straightforwardly and locally resolved.The sentences of (2) show infinitival relatives, pur-pose, and 'in-order-to' clauses in which control ofthe infinitive (and hence of its implicit subject) issometimes clear, sometimes ambiguous.
In (3), asubject infinitival phrase receives an unavoidablygeneric reading in one case and a non-generic butambiguous reading in the other.
Finally, the exam-ples of (4) indicate that nominalizations of eventsalso have roles whose reference must be determined,and whose existence and identity has consequencesfor subsequent discourse.Aside from the sentences in (1), in which controlis unambiguously sorted out within the sentence onthe basis of verb type, all the examples above can17be paraphrased with equivalent multi-sentence on-structions in which the facts of referent-assignmentare identical.
Even more extended iscourses, in-cluding dialogues uch as that in (5), show the in-fluence of an instantiated situation or event overthe assignment of referents to entities introducedlater in the discourse.5) A: John has been hobbl ing around fortwo weeks with a sprained ankle.B: So what did the nurse sayyesterday?A: She said that it would not be smartto run so soon after injuringhimself.
(adapted from Nishigauchi 's  48, cited asa modif icat ion of Chao's 28)The distribution of event participants acrossmulti-sentence discourses is sufficient o lay to restany idea that the linkage is syntactically governed,even though the entities which provide cohesion inthese examples are arguments which are typicallybound syntactically.
That is, it seems that initiallyunfilled thematic roles play a part in tying one sen-tence to the next.
Event roles left unfilled afterthe operation of local syntactic processing are ap-parently still 'active', in some sense, and they ap-pear to be able to attract participants from exter-nal structures to fill them.
Carlson and Tanenhaus(1988) provide psycholinguistic evidence that thisis indeed the case; open thematic roles do appearto be effective as cohesion devices.
1Previous theories about how open roles becomefilled (mostly intra-sententially) have been basedon notions ranging from strictly syntactic to morepragmatic, knowledge-based approaches.
Obvi-ously wherever we do have what appears to beinvariant and obligatory control, we want to ex-ploit a syntactic explanation.
However, these cases1Whether it is just thematic roles, or those plus certaintypes of highly predictable adjuncts, or a wide variety ofother types of slots which can provide the type of linking weare talking about is still an open question.
We do assumethat for each event we will encode not only THAT it expectscertain arguments o be filled, but HOW it expects them tobe filled; for instance it should be perceived that the noun'salesman' is a highly suitable Agent for a sale event.
Wemay need to know about more than that.
In particular, wemay require metonymical  devices that make discourses likethe following possible.I had a hard time shopping.First, the parking lot was all full ....Coherence in this example dearly depends on being ableto associate 'the parking lot' with 'store' and 'store' withthe Location of the 'shopping' event.
This extension is nodifferent in kind, however, from the core of what we areproposing here.do not account for much of the ground that weneed to cover.
As the examples above show, eventhe syntactic position PRO often defies straightfor-ward control assignment, and in the case of nominalreferences to events, Williams' (1985) argumentsagainst a strictly syntactic account of referent-assignment are convincing.
Of course, there are nosyntactic means for linking arguments with eventdescriptions intersententially.
Appeals to underly-ing thematic role notions and/or more pragmati-cally governed operators then seem to hold morepromise for the kinds of situations we are describ-ing.Given their currency above and below the sen-tence level, and the fact that they seem to be sen-sitive to both syntactic and pragmatic onstraints,the behavior of unfilled event roles will best be ex-plained at the discourse level.
Like other discourseanaphoric elements, open roles can not only receivetheir reference from distant structures, but theyalso seem to be used productively to create linksbetween linguistic structures and to extend focusin both forward and backward directions.To machine-build representations of eventswhose essential components are dispersed acrossmultiple structures, two key ingredients are neces-sary.
First, the system must have knowledge aboutevents and their expected participants and othercharacteristics.
Given this, one can make predic-tions about the expectancy of arguments and theunderlying properties they should hold.
The sec-ond ingredient required is a means for assessingthe mutual accessibility of discourse entities.
Ashas been pointed out by various researchers, en-tential structure, thematic relationships, and dis-course configurations all may play a part in deter-mining which entities must, might, and cannot beassociated with others, and a discourse frameworkmust make it possible to take all these factors intoaccount in assigning reference and building repre-sentations of events.Our intent in this paper is to provide a prototypemodel of event building which is effective acrossclauses, both intra- and inter-sententially.
We willincorporate into this representation of events ameans for assessing accessibility of events and eventparticipants for anaphoric reference, and we willuse the representation to examine the anaphoricbehavior of open roles.Event -Bu i ld ing  Representat ion :  We havechosen DRT as an overall representation scheme,though we will be modifying it to some extent.DRT has been designed to perform a variety of18tasks, including proper placement of individualevents in an overall discourse representation andmaking it possible to indicate which event entitiesare available for future anaphoric referencing andwhat constraints hold over those entities.
A typi-cal DR for a simple sentence is given in (6).
Thesentence, 'John gave Bill a dollar' is designated bythe variable E1 and has associated with it a pred-icate calculus statement that contains the predi-cate, give, and argument variables V1, V2, and V3.The give event specification and other constraints,again in predicate calculus form, are contained inthe lower portion of the DR.
In the top half of theDR, any entities, including events, which are avail-able for subsequent anaphoric referencing are listedby their variable names.Vl, V2, V3, E1( John V1)(Bi l l  V2)(Do l la~V3)El:(give (agent Vl),(goal V2),(theme V3))6.
A DR for John gave Bill a dollar.Our representation departs in some ways fromthe way in which the binding of anaphors is usu-ally shown in DRT.
In versions of DRT with re-altime processing, whenever an NP is being pro-cessed, two things can happen: i) either the NPcan be linked with a previously occurring NP andbecome anaphorically bound to it, or ii) a new ref-erent can be generated for the NP and posted whenno antecedent can be found.
For our purposes, itis convenient o include in the DR an extra tierwhich contains items which have not yet found areferent.
~To designate the three parts of our DRs,we will use the following tier labels:Available Referents - ARUnbound Referents - UR, andConstraints on Referents - CR.For processing purposes, we will not attempt oimmediately bind anaphors as they are encounteredin sentences, beyond what we can get for free fromsyntactic analysis.
Rather, we will initiate a two-stage process, with the first DR having unboundanaphors and the second attempting representa-tion of binding.
In the first representation, we will2 A buffer of this sort may be implicit in other treatmentsof anaphora resolution; our extension is just  to add it ex-plicitly to the DR representation.
Without  some such bufferit is not clear how one would handle sentences like 'Whenhe was a kid, John was pretty goofy.
'post unbound anaphors in UR.
We will also postconstraints for unbound items within CR to reflecttheir type, e.g.
(PRO Xl),  (DEFINITE X2), and(HE X3).
When items in UR become bound (orwhen their referents are found), their bindings willbe represented in AR, they will be crossed off fromwithin UR, and a new DR will be created to reflectthe change in status.We will also revise the representation of eventdescriptions in CR, by including in them implicitarguments for each event as well as ones which areexplicitly realized in the sentence.
Every event willhave its underlying thematic and highly expectedadjunctive roles posted in CR, whether the roleshave been filled or not.
These unfilled or implicitroles are posted as entities requiring binding, inUR.
The constraint ( IMPLICIT X) will be includedfor any open role, and for each event variable wewill note in CR whether it was a verbal or other-than-verbal description.Example (7) contains an instance of what weintend.
The nominalized form of an investigateevent, marked with El,  has two open slots: Agentand Theme, V1 and V2, respectively.
E1 is postedas a possible referent in AR; its two implicit argu-ments V1 and V2 are posted in UR.
Similarly, E2,the launch event is posted in AR, while its openagent role, designated by V3, is shown in UR; itsexplicit Theme is already posted in AR as El.AK: El, E2UR: V1, V2, V3CR: El:( investigate (Agent V1)CTheme V2))E2:(launch (Agent V3) (Theme El))7.
A DR of the sentence An investigation waslaunched.We will show that because of the inclusion ofopen roles in the representation of events and onthe UR tier, this framework for discourse repre-sentation makes it possible to link arguments thatappear in a variety of structures to their respectiveevents, and thus provides more predictive power foranaphoric resolution processes.Verb -based  Event  References :  We willdemonstrate how DRs can be used to build inter-clausal events by providing various examples.
Wewill move from the easiest examples, those thathave much syntactic support, to the hardest, thosewhose resolution is mostly based on pragmaticgrounds.~9We treat the binding of the PRO subject of em-bedded infinitive as a case of open role filling, andfor our purposes, such binding is fundamentallythe same in both obligatory and non-obligatory en-vironments, since in every case the result is thatopen event roles are filled by arguments from ex-ternal sources.
That  is, even where control is gen-erated entirely within syntax, the links are con-strued as being the result of a cross-clause vent-building process.
The operational difference is justthat wherever control CAN be reliably determinedsyntactically, as in the case of obligatory controlverbs, indices between controllers and PROs will bein place when initial DRs are generated.
3 A typicalDR with a controller-controllee relationship wouldappear as in (8).AR: Xl,  E l ,  E2CR: (John, Xl)El:(try (Agent Xl)(Goal E2))E2:(leave (Agent Xl))8.
The DR for John tried to leave.In the event-building examples that we show inthe remainder of the paper, the aim is the con-struction of DRs that ultimately link events andarguments in this same way.
What is differentabout the more complicated cases is just the meansof accomplishing the linking.
In the case of non-obligatory control of PRO, such results may oftenrequire information from several evels of process-ing, and an adequate vent-building representationmust be able to accommodate he representation fall factors which are shown to be effective in pre-dicting that control.Nishigauchi (1984), for example, demonstratesthat choice of controller can often be determinedthrough knowledge of thematic roles (see also Bach,1982, and Dowty and Ladusaw, 1988, for their ac-counts).
In Nishigauchi's account, control of infini-tival purpose clauses and infinitival relative clausesis primarily dependent on the presence of one ofthree thematic roles from his so-called Primary Lo-cation hierarchy; the idea is that a controller canbe assigned if a Goal, Location, or Source is presentin the sentence.
Where a Goal is present, its refer-3Dowty and Ladusaw (1988) believe that control is gen-erally established via pragmatic means.
They claim that itis pragmatic knowledge of events that enables one to gen-erate links between participants and events.
They also be-lieve, however, that there are a large number of situationsfor which control has become grammaticized, and that theredoes not need to be any internal analysis in these situationsto  comprehend argument-to-event li ks.ent has precedence as controller; where Goal is notpresent, Location or Source can take control.The examples in (9) are indicative of the kindsof links that can be made via this hierarchy.
In ex-ample (9a), the Goal 'Mary' controls the infinitivalrelative.
4 In (9b), John ends up with the book, so' John' is Goal, while in (9c), John as the possessorof the book is its Location; in both cases 'John'controls the infinitive.
(9)a) John bought Ha.ry a book PRO to  read.b) John bought a book PRO to read.c) John has a book PRO to read.To handle examples like (9a-c), we begin with ini-tial DRs that include the kind of information thatcan be expected from a syntactic/semantic parserthat produces initial logical forms.
For instance, weknow that ' John' is the Agent and 'Mary' the Goalof a buy event, and that the PRO subject of 'read'(the Agent of the read event) has no binding.
Theobject of 'read' is identified in syntax as 'book'.
5An initial DR for (9a) is illustrated in (10).AR: X1 X2 X3 E1 E2UR: X4CR:El:(buy (Agent Xl ) (0b jeet  X2)(Goal X3))E2:(read (Agent X4)(Object X2))(John X1)(book X2)(Mary X3)(PRO X4)(10).
The initial DR for John bought Mary a bookto read.At this stage, a positive check for Goal in E1 re-sults in the binding of the unbound variable X4 toX3 in AR; X4 is then canceled out of UR.
Werethere no Goal in El ,  a Location or Source wouldhave the same effect.
In a case where none of theseroles is specified explicitly, as in example (11) (fromBach), it must be filled by default and/or from4 'Mary' is more typically interpreted as Beneficiary inthis sentence, but Nishigauchi claims that since Mary endsup with the book, she is the Goal.
Bach's (1982) explanationis similar; it is that entity which the matrix verb puts in aposition to do the VERBing which controls the infinitive.SThis analysis assumes that the infinitive is recognizedas an infinitival relative on 'book', so that it does have anObject gap.
The infinitive could also of course he an 'in-order-to' clause with intransitive 'read', in which case thecontroller is the Agent of 'buy'.20context before it can bind the infinitive.
In thiscase the default Goal for 'brought' is "present com-pany", and so the PRO subject of 'enjoy' is firstperson plural inclusive.
(11) I brought this miserable Morgonto enjoy with our dinner.Nomina l  Descr ip t ions  o f  Events :  Much discus-sion has focused on the extent o which the internalstructure of NPs that have nominalized events asheads, e.g.
'the destruction of the city by the Ro-mans,' carries over the internal structure of the as-sociated verb-headed structure, as in 'the Romansdestroyed the city'.
The consensus i  that such de-verbal noun phrases, while obviously semanticallyparallel in some ways, are not equivalent o ver-bal descriptions.
In particular, semantic argumentsassociated with the nominalized form are held tobe syntactically adjunctive in nature and entirelyoptional, even where they would be expressed asobligatory complements o the associated verb.We are interested here in cases in which nomi-nals representing events are linked with argumentsthat are not part of the same immediate syntac-tic environment.
Several examples are provided in(12) and (13).
As Higgins (1973, cf.
Dowty, 1986)has discussed, in sentences like (12a) the subjectof the matrix verb 'make' can be associated withthe Agent position of an embedded nominal; there-fore we understand 'Romans' to be the Agent of'attack'.
It is apparently the nature of the verb'make' that permits this association; 'perform' be-haves similarly.
The verbs 'suffer' and 'undergo',on the other hand, link their subjects to the Themeor Experiencer of a nominalized event (that is, towhat would be the expected object of the associ-ated verb), as shown in (12b).12a) The Romans made an attack on theSabines.b) The Romans suffered acrippling defeat.Williams (1985) makes use of the notion that amatrix verb can impose an association between itsown arguments and any implicit arguments of acontrolled event noun.
However as the followingexamples how, not all verbs impose association ofarguments to the degree that 'perform' and 'un-dergo' do.
A verb may show some tendency towardassociation between Agents, as 'schedule' does in(13a), but be open to a realignment of matrix sub-ject with some other more focused role in otherenvironments, as in (13b).
Some may have sucha slight tendency to associate arguments in a par-ticular way that it can be disrupted by syntacticstructure, as in (13c) and (13d).
In (13c) Sam mayor may not be a party himself to the agreement,but in (13d) he is probably not involved.
(13a) John schedu led  a takeover /meet ing .b) John schedu led  a ha i rcut /a  checkup.c) Sam negotiated an agreement.d) An agreement was negotiatedby Sam.What is necessary in order to sort this out isa working framework within which these tenden-cies can be represented and their interactions withother factors tracked.
Where the tendency towardsassociation is as strong as it is for 'make', which isconsidered to be semantically "bleached" in suchconstructions as make an attempt, make an ar-rangement, make a promise, make an attack (thatis, it could be said to have become just a mech-anism for linking matrix subject to object event),our representation will allow for an early linking atthe level of syntax.
For the general run of caseswhere an event noun is the object of a matrix verb,as in (13a-d), we must rely on our knowledge of typ-ical interactions between events in order to decidewhat the linking between matrix subject and em-bedded event might be.
The interaction betweenthe AR and the UR tiers of the DR, along withconstraints on variables of both types, allows us tomanipulate the association as may seem appropri-ate, with as much knowledge as we have at the timeof linking.Cross -Sentence  Event -bu i ld ing :  As we men-tioned earlier, the linking phenomena we are ex-amining hold across, as well as within sentences.Discourse (14) is provided as an example of a dis-course in which an open role is filled in a subsequentsentence.
In the first sentence, there are actuallyseveral open roles.
Left unfilled are (at least) theroles Source and Exchange.
With the DR struc-turing we have chosen, an initial DR for the firstsentence of (14) would be built as in (15).
The mainthing to note in (15) is that the open role variables,are Z1 and Q1, the Source and the Exchange, havebeen posted in UR.
(14a) Pete bought a car.b) The salesman was a real jerk.21( l s )AR: EI,XI,YIUR: Zl O1CR: (Pete  Xl)( car  Y1)El:(buy (Agent X l ) ,  (Theme Y1),(Source ZI), (Exchange Ol))(implicit Z1)(implicit ql)The initial DR. for the second sentence of (14) isin (16a).
The variable X2, representing 'the sales-man',  has been posted in the unresolved NP buffer,and X2 will be the first thing to be resolved by wayof anaphora operators.The anaphoric processes invoked at this pointwould be much like what has been promoted else-where.
A variety of factors would come into play,including looking at basic semantic haracteristics,centering, etc.
We would also want to provide ameans for ordering available referents as they areplaced in AR.
in terms of their forward focusingcharacter (Grosz, Joshi, and Weinstein, 1983).For 'the salesman', the previously occurring dis-course entities that are available as referents are El,Xl ,  and Y1 in the previous AR., and Z1 and Q1 inthe previous UR.
The possible referent Xl,  'Pete',ranks as a possible candidate but not a very likelyone, since if Pete were to be referred to in a subse-quent sentence it would more likely be done via apersonal pronoun.
The other available referent, Y1,the 'car', is semantically unlikely and is not con-sidered a good choice.
A search is then made intothe previous UR..
The Source Z1, in this instance,would be a highly likely choice, since any seman-tic qualities that would accompany 'the salesman'would fit those of the Source of a buy event.It has been reported in previous tudies that def-inite NPs often have no clear antecedent.
For in-stance, 363 out of 649 definite NPs found in a studyof corpus of dialogues (Brunner, Ferrara, and Whit-temore, 1990) had no direct linguistic antecedents.53% of the 363 definite NPs had semantically in-ferrable antecedents, where definite NPs were usedto refer to attributes of antecedents and the like,but not to antecedents themselves.
Apparently,definite NPs function to focus on some partial as-pect of an antecedent or topic and not necessarilyto refer directly to it as a whole.
6 Following the6The other 47% were reported to have no clear an-tecedents, and were only 'topically' tied to the context.
Itmight prove beneficial to re-examine these true orphans andsee if any of these refer back to open roles.line of reasoning that one could take from thesefindings, it could be the case that there is actuallya preference for definite NPs to refer back to openroles, since they represent particular points of focusor sub-components of events.
'Salesman', via the variable X2, would then getbound to the buy event and a second DR. with nounresolved anaphora would be returned, as shownin (16b).
(16a)AR: E2UR: X2CR: (Salesman X2)(definite X2)E2:(IS X2 real-jerk)(16b)AR: X2, E2UR:CR: (Salesman X2)(definite X2)E2:(IS X2 real-jerk)Similarly, the DR for the first sentence wouldneed modification since now the open Source role,represented as Z1, would need to be bound to X2,'the salesman' (this updated binding is not shown).L imi ts  on  L ink ing :  There are limits on thekinds of linking that can be effected between eventdescriptions and fillers for open roles.
For instance,note that the open slot in the example above doesnot seem to be available for pronominal reference.If (14b) is replaced with 'He was a real jerk,'  thesequence of sentences makes no sense (or at leastwe would have to say that the same role is notaccessed).
This restriction appears to be true ingeneral for pronominal reference into event descrip-tions, as the following examples how:?
I was attacked.
*He was enormous.?
We unloaded the car.
*They \[the suitcases\]were very heavy.?
This borrowing has got to stop.
*They \[theborrowed things\] get left all over the place.An event description itself, as a whole, nomi-nal or verbal, may function as an antecedent for22subsequent anaphoric reference, including pronom-inal reference ('I  went swimming.
It was horrible.
').It is just pronominal reference INTO an event de-scription, especially a verbal one, which seems to beblocked.
The event described in (17a) below cannottypically be elaborated upon by (l?ai).
However,(17ai) is fine as a continuation if (17aii), in whichthe event is nominalized, comes between.
(17b), inwhich the agree event is referred to nominally, canbe followed by (17bi), (17bii) or both.
(17)a) Bob finally agreed eith J oe .i) *It was to not fight anymore.ii) The agreement ,as negotiatedby Sam.b) Bob and Joe f ina l ly  made an agreement .i )  I t  was to not fight anymore.ii) It/The agreement was negotiatedby Sam.c)  * I t  was between Bob and Sam.In our representation the posting of event de-scriptions, verbal and nominal, in AR, accountsfor the fact that each can be linked to by a sub-sequent pronominal element.
Our intuition is thatin order to be completely accessible as a referent,however, an entity must have not only a semanticbut also a phonological realization; since open rolesare merely implicit until they are bound, it is pre-dictable that there would be a difference in theiraccessibility.
For this reason we post open rolesonly in UR, not in AR, and in our framework thisblocks pronominal access to them.As for the fact that nominalizing an event seemsto ease the restrictions on referring into it by meansof a pronoun (as in the (17ai-ii) examples), ourguess is that in these cases the pronominal refer-ence is actually to the event as a thing, and that theapparent elaboration of roles is allowed by the samemechanisms that allow addition of other adjunctsto nominals, as in 'I really enjoyed my vacation.
Itwas in Texas in July.'
In any case our tagging ofevent variables in CR as nominal or verbal allowsthis distinction to be taken into account.The idea of role slots which are canceled from URas they are bound explains another restriction onthe ways in which events can be elaborated.
(17c)above cannot appropriately follow either (171) or(17b), because we already know from either thatthe agreement was between Bob and Joe.
Further,if (17bii) follows (17b), then we know that Samis not himself a participant in the agreement henegotiated, because we already know from (17b)that the agreenaent was between Bob and Joe.
Ineach of these cases, the open role in question willhave been canceled out of UR by binding to otherentities before the new anaphoric elements comealong, and so there is no possibility of filling a roletwice.Hard  Cases:  Finally, we offer a few commentson a "pretty hard" and a "really hard" example,given in (18) and (19).
These are revised versionsof the discourse given in (5).
The task in both casesis to bind the referent ' John',  which appears in thefirst sentence, to the Agent slot of 'run',  which isin the second sentence.
(18)John has been hobb l ing  aroundon a spra ined  ank le .Today,  the  nurse  sa id  i t  would  be bestnot  to  run fo r  teo  weeks .
(19)John has been hobb l ing  aroundon a spra ined  ank le .Today, the nurse told his mother it wouldbe best not to run for two weeks.To resolve these examples, we can employ twotactics.
First, we will impose a thematic role asso-ciation between the Addressee of a say event andthe Agent of embedded agentless verbs that denoteadvice.
Secondly, we will use the notion of openimplicit roles in DtLs to obtain a filler for the openAddressee role in the say/tell event.
7With these two notions in place, we can easilyresolve (18).
(18)'s context provides only one pos-sible candidate for the open Addressee role, namely' John'  (that is, if we disregard the speaker of theutterance).
Once ' John'  is used to fill that role, wecan link ' John also, through the default thematicrole association, to the Agent slot for 'run'.
(19), however shows that the situation can bemore complicated.
There is no open Addresseerole in (19); the explicit Addressee is 'his mother'.By the process above, then, 'his mother '  would belinked to the Agent slot of 'run',  which of courseis incorrect.
We do not have a perfect explanationfor why (19) is different from (18), other than thatJohn's mother is not the ult imate Addressee.
Thatis, a mechanism is needed that can determine thatJohn's mother transfers the advice on to the per-son who needs it, namely the ailing person, namelyJohn.
Even if such a complicated scenario is theZA more general form of the first step would be a the-matic role reasoning device that permits PROs to be linkedwith those entities which are most eligible to carry out theaction of the subjectless infinitive.
This formulation wouldbe in the spirit of Bach, 1982.23correct one, we believe that our combined thematicrole/discourse r presentation would provide a plat-form upon which one could make use of such prag-matic information.Conclusion: Our stated task was to providea vehicle for constructing event representationswhich have roles that are not filled by local syntac-tic means.
DRT is a natural vehicle for~this kind ofexercise, given certain extensions.
The major ex-tension is the posting of open event (thematic) rolesas potential anchors for subsequent reference.
Inother words we are treating open roles as a type ofanaphor.
Where roles integral to an understandingof an event are not immediately filled on the basisof local syntax, we hypothesize that they shouldbe posted nonetheless a not-yet-instantiated slots.We have added a tier to the conventional notion ofa DR to accommodate this posting.Our experiments with this representation haveshown how information from various levels of pro-cessing can be brought ogether in event building.This framework also allows us to discover limits onlinking phenomena; in particular, it naturally illus-trates the inaccessibility of open roles to pronomi-nal reference, and the tendency for definite NPs tolink to substructures within an event.ACKNOWLEDGEMENTSWe would like to note that the idea of using DRsas a means for building events across clauses camefrom a comment by Rich Thomason, cited in Dowty(1986:32): "Rich Thomason (p.c.)
has suggested tome that a very natural way to construct a theoryof event anaphora would be via Discourse Repre-sentation Theory."
Thomason was addressing (wethink) the notion of referring to events via nominal-izations.
We just extended the idea of using DRTto construct events across clauses to also includethose denoted by verbs.\[3\] Dowty, D. and Ladusaw, W. 1988.
Toward aNongrammatical Account of Thematic Roles, inVolume 21 of SYNTAX AND SEMANTICS, pgs.61-73.\[4\] Grosz, B., Joshi, A., and Weinstein, S. 1983.Providing a Unified Account of Definite NounPhrases in Discourse.
SRI Technical note ~292.\[5\] Kamp, H. 1981.
A Theory of Truth and Se-mantic Representation, in J. Groenendijk, T.Jannsen, and M. Stokhof, (eds.).
FORMALMETHODS IN THE STUDY OF LANGUAGE.\[6\] Nishigauchi, T. 1984.
Control and the ThematicDomain.
LANGUAGE, Volume 60, no.
2, pgs.215-250.\[7\] Williams, E. 1980.
Predication.
LINGUISTICINQUIRY, Volume 11, no.
1, pgs.
203-238.\[8\] Williams, E. 1985.
PRO and Subject of NP.NATURAL LANGUAGE AND LINGUISTICTHEORY, Volume 3, no.
3, pgs.
297-315.References\[1\] Carlson, G. and Tanenhaus, M. 1988.
ThematicRoles and Language Comprehension.
THE-MATIC RELATIONS, VOLUME 21 OF SYN-TAX AND SEMANTICS, pgs.
263-291.\[2\] Dowty, D. 1986.
On the Semantic Content ofthe Notion "Thematic Role".
paper presented atthe University of Massachusetts conference onProperty Theory, Type Theory, and Semantics,March 13-16, 1986.24
