Collaborating on Referring ExpressionsPeter  A .
HeemanDepar tment  of  Computer  Sc ienceUn ivers i ty  of  TorontoToronto ,  Canada,  M5S 1A4heeman@ai .
to ronto .eduAbst ractThis paper presents a computational model of howconversational participants collaborate in making re-ferring expressions.
The model is based on the plan-ning paradigm.
It employs plans for constructing andrecognizing referring expressions and meta-plans forconstructing and recognizing clarifications.
This al-lows the model to account for the generation and un-derstanding both of referring expressions and of theirclarifications in a uniform framework using a singleknowledge base.I, IntroductionIn the dialogue below 1, person A wants to refer to someobject and have person B identify it.
Person A does thisby uttering a referring expression; however, A's expressionfails to allow B to uniquely identify the object.
Person Bthen tries to clarify A's referring expression by expandingit.
A rejects B's clarification and replaces it, which al-lows B to identify the referent of the refashioned referringexpression.A: 1 See the weird creatureB: 2 In the corner?A: 3 No, on the televisionB: 4 Okay.This paper presents a computation model of Clarkand Wilkes-Gibbs's work on how conversational partici-pants collaborate in forming referring expressions \[2\].
Ourmodel takes the role of one of the participants, either theparticipant who initiates the referring expression, the ini-tiator, or the one who is trying to identify the referent, theresponder.
It accounts for how the initiator constructs theinitial referring expressions and how she and the responderthen collaborate in clarifying the referring expression untilit is acceptable.
Each step of the collaboration consists ofa clarification of the referring expression and a subsequentunderstanding of the clarification.This work is based on the planning paradigm.
Theknowledge that is needed to choose the content of a refer-ring expression is encoded in plans.
This allows an agentto use the same knowledge base for both constructing andrecognizing initial referring expressions.
Furthermore, theI This example is a simplified version of \[6\] S.2.4a (1-8).knowledge needed to clarify a referring expression is en-coded as plans.
These are meta-plans that take an instan-tiated plan corresponding to a referring expression as aparameter.
The meta-plans reason about the failed con-straints or effects of the instantiated plan in order to clarifyit.
These repairs can subsequently be understood by per-forming plan recognition.
This approach allows the entirecollaborative process to be expressed in a uniform frame-work with a single knowledge base.II.
Referring as ActionPlans encode a relationship between goals and the prim-itive actions that will accomplish these goals.
Hence, aset of primitive actions is needed that is relevant in thedomain of referring expressions \[1\].
We use the primitiveactions - re fer  and s -a t t r .
S - re fer  is performed by theinitiator to signal to the responder that she is referring toan object, and that she intends him to identify the object.S -a t t r  ascribes ome attribute to an object, for instanceits category, color, or shape.III.
Initial Referring ExpressionConstructing: When an initiator wants to refer to anobject, she can do so by constructing a re fer  plan.
Thisplan consists of two steps, the action s - re fer ,  mentionedabove, and the subplan descr ibe .
Descr ibe,  through itssubplans headnoun and modi f ie rs ,  constructs a descrip-tion of the object that is intended to allow the responder toidentify the object.
Headnoun decomposes into an s -a t t raction that ascribes to the object the head noun chosen bythe constraints of the plan.
The mod i f ie rs  plan is morecomplicated.
Through its constraints, it ensures that thereferring expression is believed to allow the responder touniquely identify the object.
The mod i f ie rs  plan achievesthis by decomposing into the mod i f ie r  plan a variablenumber of times (through recursion).
Each instance of themod i f ie r  plan constructs an individual component of thedescription, such as the object's color, shape, or location(through an s -a t t r  action).Recogn iz ing :  The responder, after hearing the initialreferring expression, tries to recognize the intention behindthe initiator's utterance.
Starting with the set of primi-tive actions that he observed, the responder employs plan345recognition to determine a plan that accounts for them.This process will lead him to ascribe the re fer  plan to theinitiator, including the intention for the responder to iden-tify the referent of the description.
Plan recognition, byanalyzing the constraints and effects of the inferred plan,lets the responder attempt o identify the referent of thedescription.There are two reasons why the responder might beunable to identify the referent.
Either the responder isunable to find any objects that satisfy the referring ex-pression or he is able to find more than one that satisfiesit.
This situation might arise if the initiator and respon-der have different states of knowledge or belief about theworld.
For instance, in the dialogue above the respondermight think that several objects are "weird".
The con-straint or effect that was violated in the inferred plan isnoted by the plan recognizer, and this knowledge is usedto repair the plan.
This approach ismotivated by Pollack'streatment of ill-formed omain plans \[5\].IV.
Clari f icationsConstructing: If the responder was unsuccessful atin-ferring the referent of the referring expression, he will planto inform the initiator that her referring expression wasnot successful.
As Clark and Wilkes-Gibbs \[2\] point out,the responder will try to refashion the referring expressionin order to minimize the collaborative effort, and hence hewill prefer to replace or expand the referring expressionrather than just rejecting it or postponing the decision.The responder has several different clarification plans\[4\] at his disposal and they take as a parameter the inferredplan corresponding to the referring expression.
Theseplans correspond to Clark and Wilkes-Gibbs's analysis ofthe repair process.
One of these plans is rej  ect-replace.This plan rejects the step of the inferred referring expres-sion plan that has a constraint violation and replaces itby a similar step but with the violated constraint relaxed(relaxing a description is due to \[3\]).
A second plan ispostpone-expemd, which is used to further qualify a refer-ring expression that a participant found to match severalobjects.
This plan is used by the responder in (2) in thedialogue above.Recognizing: If the responder clarifies the referringexpression, the initiator will have to infer that the respon-der is unable to identify the referent of the expression.Furthermore, the initiator must determine how the clarifi-cation will affect he underlying referring expression.
Theresponder might have rejected or postponed his decision,as well as proposed a correction to the underlying refer-ring expression by replacing or expanding it.
FollowingLitman's work on understanding clarification subdialogues\[4\], this process is achieved through plan recognition.Continuing On: Clarification subdialogues might ex-tend beyond the responder's clarification of the initial re-ferring expression.
For instance, in the above dialogue, af-ter the initiator inferred the responder's clarification, shefound the resulting referring expression plan ill-formed.Hence, she constructed a subsequent clarification--"No, nthe television".
Then, the responder had to infer this clar-ification.
In general, this process will continue until bothparticipants accept he referring expression.
The analysisinvolved with these subsequent turns of the dialogue issim-ilar to the analysis given in the preceding two subsections.There may be differences between how the initiator andresponder clarify a referring expression, since the initia-tor knows the identity of the referent.
Also, there may bedifferences between a clarification following the initial re-ferring expression and one following another clarification,since, in the latter case, the referring expression may havealready been partially accepted.V.
Be l ie f  Rev is ionAs was mentioned earlier, the initiator and respondermight have different states of knowledge or belief aboutthe world, and these differences will be a cause of clarifica-tion subdialogues.
In the process of collaborating tomakereferring expressions, these differences inbelief will arise inthe replacements and expansions that the two participantspropose.
Hence, they will need a way of resolving theirdifferences in beliefs about the world if they are to bothaccept he referring expression.
Hence the model proposedin this paper will need to incorporate belief revision.VI.
Conc lus ionThis paper has presented a computational model of howconversational participants collaborate in making referringexpressions.
However, it is hoped that the ideas presentedin this paper are of relevance to a much larger range ofcollaborative processes.The work outlined in this paper is in progress.
Atpresent, a computer system has been implemented in Pro-log that can construct and recognize initial referring ex-pressions, and that can construct clarifications.
In termsof the dialogue above, the system can model both the ini-tiator and responder for the first line and can model theresponder for the second.References\[1\] D. E. Appelt.
Planning English referring expressions.
Ar~ificlalIntelligence, 26(1):1-33, April 1985.\[2\] H. H. Clark and D. Wilkes-Gibbs.
Referring as a collaborativeprocess.
Cognition, 22:1-39, 1986.\[3\] B.
A. Goodman.
Repvh'ing reference identification failures byrelaxation.
In Proceedings o\] the ~3 rd Annual Meeting o\] theAssociation \]or Computational Linguistics, pages 204-217, 1985.\[4\] D. J. Litman and J. F. Allen.
A plan recognition model forsubdlalogues in conversations.
Cognitive Science, 11(2):16,3-200,April- June 1987.\[5\] M. E. Pollack.
Inferring domain plans in question-answerlng.Technical Note 403, SRI Interx~tional, 1986.\[{3\] J. Svartvik and R. Quirk.
A Corpus o\] English Conversation.Ltmd Studies in English.
56.
C.W.K.
Gleerup, Lund, 1980.346
