SOME FACTS ABOUT CENTERS,  INDEXICALS,  AND DEMONSTRATIVESRebecca J. PassonneauColumbia University450 Computer Science Bldg.New York, New York 10027, U.S.Abecky@cs.columbia.eduABSTRACT 1Certain pronoun contexts are argued to establish alocal center (LC), i.e., a conventionalized indexicalsimilar to lst /2nd pers.
pronouns.
Demonstrativepronouns, also indexicals, are shown to access en-tities that are not LCs because they lack discourserelevance or because they are not yet in the uni-verse of discourse.1 In t roduct ionReferring expressions in discourse are multifunc-tional and dual-faced.
Besides functioning to spec-ify referents, they also indicate the status of theirreferents in the evolving discourse model, such asthe informational status of being given or new\[Pri81\], or maintain the attentional status of be-ing in focus \[Sid83\] [Gro77\].
They are dual-facedin that the surface form of a referring expressionis constrained by the prior discourse context, andthen increments the context, serving to constrainsubsequent utterances \[Isa75\].
As a consequenceof this latter property, the communicative effect ofmany referring forms, especially pronouns, is rel-ative to specific types of discourse contexts.
Thediscourse reference functions of a few types of pro-nouns are examined, taking into account heir mul-tifunctionality and their dual nature, in order toclarify their processing requirements in dialogicnatural anguage systems.
In particular, a compar-ison of the conversational usage of it with two typesof indexical pronouns indicates that certain uses ofit, referred to as local centering, resemble what Ka-plan \[Kap89\] refers to as pure indexicals.
Severalfunctions of lhat are also identified and shown tocontrast with local centering with respect o theirpreconditions and effects.Third person, definite (3d) pronouns contrastwith indexical pronouns because the referents ofthe former are arbitrary, and must be actively es-tablished as part of the current universe of dis-course in order for the intended referent to be1 This paper was written under the support of DARPAgrant N000039-84-C-0165 and NSF grant IRT-84-51438.
Iam grateful to Kathy McKeown for her generous support.identified.
In contrast, the referents of index-icals such as I and you (i.e., the speaker andaddressee) are necessary components of the dis-course circumstances.
2 Indexical pronouns canbe further classified into pure indexicals versusdemonstratives, 8 depending on how the current dis-course circumstances provide their referents.
Thereferent of a pure indexical is fully determined bythe semantic rules and a context, which togetherpick out a unique referent for each use.
Thus Irefers to the person who utters it (assuming that Iis used to refer).
A pure indexical cannot refer toalternative ntities, nor can any other expressionpick out the relevant entity via the same type ofreferring function.
Pure indexicals do not add en-tities to a context, or change the attentional statusof their referents.In contrast, the referent of a demonstrative pro-noun is not completely determined by the contextplus the semantic rules.
An accompanying demon-stration is required, such as a physical or vocalgesture to something in the immediate discoursecircumstances.
Further, demonstratives can referto anything in the context that can be demon-strated.
In the cases of discourse deixis discussed byWebber \[Web90\], e.g., demonstrative pronouns areused to refer to discourse segments.
Webber notesthat in these cases, the demonstration consists inthe intention to refer signalled by the use of thedemonstrative, plus the semantics of the contain-ing clause, plus attentional constraints on whichdiscourse segments can be demonstrated.
4 Thus,3d pronouns, pure indexical pronouns, and demon-stratives all differ with respect to the set of con-textual elements that are available referents, andthe manner in which the referent is related to thereferring expression.
Investigating their distinctdiscourse functions leads to extensions to the tri-2The term indexical includes devices whose meaning per-talns to the time, the place and the perceived environment ofa discourse context, e.g., tense, deictic adverbs (here, there)and deictic pronouns (this, that) \[Pei35\].3The view of indexicals presented here is largely drawnfrom Kaplan \[Kap89\].4Webber \[Weh90\] argues that only segments on the rightfrontier are available referents.63partite discourse model of attentional state, inten-tional structure and segmental structure proposedby Grosz and Sidner \[GS86\].
5The  data presented here come from a set of dia-logic interviews, originally described in \[Sch85\] (cf.also \[PasS9\]).
The methodology, fully described in\[Pas90\], primarily involves the examination of lin-guistic choices that are in principle independent,but which are found to co-vary significantly of-ten.
Such co-variation ispresumed to serve commu-nicative functions that discourse processing modelsneed to replicate and explain.
It should be remem-bered that the patterns of co-variation ?describedhere represent pragmatically significant usage pat-terns, rather than obligatory ones.2 Loca l  CenterIn previous work, I presented the results of an anal-ysis of the distribution of occurrences of it andthat having explicit antecedents in conversationaldata from 4 interviews, involving 5 different speak-ers (g  = 678) \[Pas89\].
The two pronouns havesimilar syntactic contexts of occurrence thus dif-ferences in their distribution are pragmatic in na-ture, and stem primarily from the semantic con-trast of demonstrativity with non-demonstrativity.Previously, I had noted that the data supportedthe centering rule (CR) \[GJW83\] and the propertysharing principle (PSP) \[Kam86\].
A review of theassumptions of the centering model, and of the con-versational data, argues for an alternative view.
Inthis section I reinterpret the results as establishinga distinct attentional state, local center.
I explainthe two property sharing patterns of Kameyama'sPSP (subject and non-subject, \[Kam86\]) with re-spect to local center, and discuss the similarity be-tween local centers and pure indexicals.
Finally, Idiscuss the relation ?
of local centering to intentionaland segmental structure.According to the centering model, every utter-ance has a backward-looking center---the currentlymost salient entity, but it need not be overtly men-tioned in the current utterance \[GJW83\].
The cen-tering rule (CK) \[GJW83\], in combination with theproperty-sharing principle (PSP) \[Kam86\], predictcertain preferred surface choices for maintainingthe backward-looking center (Cb).
The CR saysthat when the same Cb is maintained in a new ut-terance, it is likely to be expressed by ;a (3d) pro-noun \[GJW83\].
The PSP says that when 3d pro-nouns realize the Cb in adjacent utterances, they.
5 The term segmental structure is used in place of theirlinguistic structure.FA and GR Lex.
Choice and Gr of N2of N1 SUB I Non-SUBI that it I that it lCell No.
1 2 3147 31 39 19ProsvB 96.0 48.7 48.7 42.427.1 6.4 1.9 12.9Cell No.
5 6 7 837 21 34 14Pro,~on-SvB 43.1 21.9 21.9 19.1.9 .0 6.7 1.3Cell No.
9 10 11 1P18 6 11 10NPsuB 18.3 9.3 9.3 8.1.0 1.1 .3 .1Cell No.
13 14 15 1643 33 36 45NP,~o.-SUB 63.9 32.4 32.4 28.26.8  .0 .4 I0 .0Cell No, 17 18 19 208 5 1 1OTHsuB 6.1 3.1 3.1 2.7.6 1.2 1.4 1.1Cell No.
PI PP 23 2,~23 44 19 33OTH,on-SvB 48.4 24.6 24.6 21.413.3  15 .3  1.3 6 .3Table x-Square 116.3Probability 0.00001Table 1: Effects of form and grammatical role ofantecedents on pronoun choice, with observed fre-quency, expected frequency, and x-squares for eachcell (individual cells are numbered for convenient?
reference)should both be subjects (canonical center reten-tion) or both not subjects (non-canonical centerretention) \[Kam86\].
Given that the Cb can poten-tially be realized in non-preferred ways, that theCb may change, or that it may be unexpressed, Cbhas many possible surface realizations within a lo-cal discourse context of two s-adjacent utterances.
6The distinct effects of alternate realizations of Cbon segmental structure and intentional structurehave not been explored.
Also, since the centeringmodel focusses on 3d pronouns, no claims are maderegarding the relation of indexical pronouns to thediscourse model.The empirical results presented in \[Pas89\]showed that two features of the utterances contain-ing a pronoun and its antecedent were extremely6I usethe  somewhat awkward term s-adjacen$ to connoteadjacency with respect o a containing segment, an impor-tant aspect of the Grosz-Sidner model; thus two s-adjacentutterances need not be literally adjacent.64predictive of lexical choice between it and that: theform of the antecedent (FA), and the grammati-cal role (GR) of both expressions.
The best clas-sifications were where FA had the three va lues - -pronominal antecedent (PRO), full NP antecedent(NP), and other (OTH) - -and  where GR had thetwo values---subject (SUB) and non-subject (non-SUB).
No other classifications of FA or GR were aspredict ive/  It is crucial to note that these classi-fications were the minimal set that still preservedthe distinctiveness of the distributions.
Seven othersurface features had previously been found to benon-predictive \[Sch85\].
s Table 1 shows a verystrong correlation (p -- .01%) 9 between the formand GR of the antecendent (N1) and the lexicalchoice and GR of the co-specifying pronoun (N2).Exactly 2 contexts elected for it, as shown by thecombination of the high cell X2s, and the low val-ues for expected frequency, which together indi-cate that the observed frequency was significantlyhigh.
These 2 contexts were where the antecedentwas PRO and where both expressions maintainedthe same GR value (cells 1, 7; PROGR, by itaR~).Of these 2, the more significant context, and in-deed the most significant context in the whole ta-ble, was where the antecedent was PROGRsvv (cellX 2 = 27.1).
This is also the context type wherethe demonstrative was predicted not to occur (i.e.,where the antecedent was PROscrBj; cells 2,4),indicating a functional opposition between it andthat.
l?
Most of the cases of the PRO antecedentsconsisted of occurrences of it (65%), indicating thatN1 and N2 often have the same form: it.
Previ-ously unreported ata bear on the likelihood thatadjacent tokens of it will co-specify.
An analy-sis of all adjacent utterance pairs where each con-tained at least one token of referential it revealedthat 30% were cases where both were subjects, ofwhich 90% co-specified.
In contrast, it occurredwith opposing GR values 20% of the time, withcomparatively fewer instances where both tokensco-specified (65%).In sum, the data show that given ar~ occurrenceof it with an antecedent, the antecedent is likelyrCf.
\[Sch85\] \[Sch84\] for how it was determined that thesewere the maximal ly predictive classifications.sViz., speaker alternation, clause type (main or subor-dinate), parallelism, and various measures of distance be-tween pronoun and antecedent (e.g., intervening utterances,intervening referents, syntact ic depth).
Note also that  nosignificant variation with respect o FA and ( l i t  was foundacross individual speakers or conversations.9Note that a probabil ity of 5~ or less is generally takento be higtfly significant.10 The remaining 4 of the 8 PRO antecedent contexts werenon-predictive.to be it, the GR of both expressions i  likely to beSUB, and in either case (SUB or non-SUB), theywill have the same GR value.
The opposing GRpattern is not predictive (where GR of N1 is notthe same as GR of N2).
Nor is it predicted to oc-cur with an antecedent NP, and is predicted notto occur with an antecedent OTH.
The 2 contextssingled out here indicate that it is a likely form forre-referring to a known, given ent ity--because theantecedent is PRO.
Conversely, successive occur-rences of it in Ui and Ui+I generally co-specify ifthey have the same GR.
The entity referred to byit in these two patterns is called a local center.
Thefollowing local center establishment (LCE) rule en-capsulates how a local center is anticipated andmaintained, both for discourse understanding (.4)and generation (B).A: Recognizing a Local Center:  Two s-adjacent utterances U1 and U2 establish en-tity ?
as a local center only if U1 contains a3ds pronoun N1 referring to g, U2 containsa co-specifying 3ds pronoun N2, and N1 andN2 are both subjects or both non-subjects.In the canonical case, both are subjects.B: Generat ing  a Local Center:  To estab-lish g as a local center in a pair of s-adjacentutterances U1 and U2, use an expression oftype N to refer to g in both utterances whereeach token, N1 and N2, is a 3ds pronoun, andeach is the subject of its clause or each is notthe subject of its clause.
In the canonicalcase, both should be subjects.
(Precondition:To establish an entity ,~ as a local center, Cmust be in the current focus space, and itmust be possible to refer to it with a 3ds pro-noun.
)Recall from ?1 that the process of interpretinga pure index requires no search or inference, butdepends only on how the discourse circumstancesare currently construed.
The semantic value of apure index is a contextual attr ibute--e.g.
,  currentspeaker - - that  must have a particular referentialvalue whenever an utterance occurs.
In many ways,a pronoun fulfilling the LC function is like a pure in-dex.
Discourse initially, there is no LC, because theLCE rule depends minimally on an utterance pair.But for any utterance pair where the LCE rule hasapplied, there will be a discourse ent i ty - -a  com-ponent of the speech s i tuat ion- - that  is by defaultindexed to the use of subsequent referring expres-sions with the right lexico-grammatical properties.An LC conforms to the characteristics of a pure in-dexical in that it becomes established as a transientattr ibute of the speech situation analogous to theessential attr ibute current  speaker.
The relationof the referent to the referring expression is one-65to-one; no other referents are candidate LCs, andno other form can access the LC.
The processingmechanism for interpreting subsequent expressionsconforming to the LCE rule is highly constrained.It is analogous to, although not identical with, thatfor pure indexicals.
The difference is that the lo-cal center is not lexicalized, but rather, must beestablished and maintained by certain conventionsof usage.
CPs can choose not to establish a LC, orcan choose not to maintain it.
11Kameyama \[Kam86\] proposed canonical andnon-canonical property sharing patterns, but didnot discuss what governs the choice between them.Here it is suggested that the non-canonical LC pat-tern, illustrated in 1), results from the interac-tion of two distinct pragmatic effects.
In the non-canonical LC contexts, where the LC was realizedby non-SUB, the grammatical subjects were mostoften 1st or 2nd person pronouns.
12 This data con-forms to an empirically supported proposal madeby Givon and others \[Giv76\] [Li76\] that preferredsubjects are animate rather than inanimate, defi-nite rather than indefinite, pronouns rather thanfull NPs, and 1st or 2nd person rather than 3rdperson, due to the facts that in English, gram-matical subjects often express discourse topics (cf.also IF J84\]), that people prefer to talk about them-selves and other people, and that discourse topicsare given.
The interviews examined here were in-tentionaUy biased towards the discussion of non-animate entities, is But Givon's subject hierarchypredicts that, given a non-animate and an animateentity in a single utterance, the latter will more of-ten occur as the subject.
Since every matrix-clauseutterance can  have only one subject, there is po-tential competition for the subject role.
The datashow that when SUB, reserved by the LCE rule forestablishing a local center, is pre-empted by a Ist or2nd person pronoun, it is still possible for LC to berealized by alternate means, namely by sharing ofnon-SUB.
Thus the sharing of the GR value acrossutterances i a defining characteristic, as noted byKameyama \[Kam86\].
The non-canonical LC con-11 That  CPs  often do mainta in  an LC is borne out by datapertaining to  cohesive chains, a success ion  o f  u t te rance  pairsin which every utterance contains a co-speclfying pronountoken.
There were 101 cohesive chains in the interview data ,ranging in length from 2 to 13 successive utterances, con-talning 506 pronouns ,  the  major i ty  o f  which involved LCcontexts ;  cf.
\[Pas90\].12The two next  most  likely possibil it ies were an sallmatefull NP, or a non-referential pleonastic element, e.g., existen-tial there.
After that,  there was a very small heterogeneouscategory.
Note: subject  always refers to a surface grammat-ical function.13E.g., college courses, degree requirements, career op-tions, resttm~s, and so  on.figuration results from an interaction between twoseparate organizing forces: the LC status of the 3dpronoun referent, and the attentional prominenceof the speaker and hearer.
(1)S la :Slb:S1?
:Sxd:Sle:S2a:S2b:$3 :I don't have the  menta l  capac i tyto handle uh what I would like to teachwhich'd be philosophyor history at U of Cuh with that level students ummaybe with time and experienceI'll gain itbut I don't have it nowIn example 1), the utterance pair $2 and $3share a 1st person subject and a non-canonical lo-cal center.
14 In this case, the centering model can-not provide a principled answer to the question ofwhether the speaker--the grammatical subject--or the speaker's 'mental capacity'--referred to bysuccessive 3d pronoun direct objects--is the cur-rent center.
In the model proposed here, $2 and S~establish 'mental capacity' as a local center, an at-tentional status for regulating the generation andproduction of 3ds pronouns, and the question ofwhich entity is more salient does not arise.
But lo-cal centering does seem to have a secondary func-tion pertaining to the linkage between utterancesat the level of intentional and segmental structure.In addition to sharing a default referent, clausescontaining LC pronouns are often semanticallyalike in other ways.
In an initial attempt to testfor this similarity, utterance pairs with PRO an-tecedents were classified into those that did anddid not conform to the LCE rule.
No other con-texts were examined because contexts with OTHand NP antecedents were presumed to be even lesslike LC contexts.
These utterance pairs were sortedinto cases where the lexical root of the matrix verbin both clauses was identical (i.e., the verb of whichthe pronoun was an argument), but where the ut-terances were not verbatim repetitions.
15 The re-sults were that 30% of the LC contexts had thesame verb, but only 11% of contexts differing fromLC in that N2 was that instead of it.
None ofthe contexts with opposing GI~ values for the twopronouns had the same verb, which is not surpris-ing given that for most verbs, each argument po-sition has a very distinct semantic role.
In sum,by maintaining an LC and the same lexical verb,14In interview excerpts, S is the student and C the coun-selor.
Feedback cues from the addressee indicating contin-ued attent ion (e.g., uhhuh) have been omitted.15In copular clauses, the be-complements were comparedinstead of the verb; ellipsis was counted as identity.the speaker continues to predicate the same typeof information about the same entity.
This pre-sumably serves as a cue that the speaker main-tains a common Discourse Segment Purpose (DSP,\[GS86\]) throughout both utterances--to c nvey in-formation about the local center with respect tothe state of affairs conveyed by the verb.
Insofar aslocal centering pertains to segment continuation,or to relating a new utterance to the DSP of apreceding utterance, a discourse plan to continuethe current DSP need not refer directly to the sur-face grammatical choices which reflect that plan,but only to the current status of LC.
If there is acurrent LC, then maintaining it would reflect thespeaker's intention for the next utterance to con-tinue the same DSP as the prior utterance.The data assembled here indicate that local cen-tering not only constrains the interpretation of cer-tain pronouns, but also conveys the inter-utterancerelevance of locally centered entities in a larger dis-course segment, or in the discourse as a whole.However, most of the entities referred to in the con-texts represented in Table I are not LCs.
Logically,that means they can fall into several classes: e.g.,entities that are former or potential LCs becausethey are in the universe of discourse and are rele-vant to a former or future DSP; entities that arein the universe of discourse but are not LCs be-cause they are peripheral to the current DSP; andfinally, entities that are not yet in the universe ofdiscourse.
The next section will illustrate how thedemonstrative picks out entities in the latter twoc lasses .3 New Ent i t ies ,  Ant i -centers ,and Non Ent i t iesThe results presented in the preceding section in:dicate that referential it has different discourse f-fects, depending on its grammatical role, and onvarious properties of its antecedent, which in turndepend on the status of the referent in the discoursecontext.
Just as local centering is only one dis-course referring function that it participates in, itwill be seen that there are several referring func-tions the demonstrative participates in, each withdistinct preconditions and effects.
Although pro-nouns are often thought of as identifying topicalentities, that is not necessarily the case.
Englishhas a relatively impoverished inventory of pronounsin comparison to the Bantu language Chich~wa,which has two sets of definite pronouns, one ofwhich is morphologically incorporated into the verbstem, and the other of which consists of indepen-NP Antecedent IT THATGiven 78 17Not Given 31 71Probability " \] , .0001Table 2: Givenness and Lexical Choice of Pronoundent morphemes IBM87\].
is In their analysis ofChich~wa, Bresnan and Mchombo argue that ofthe two non-argument grammatical roles in LFG,WOP(ic) and fOC(us) ,  the independent pronounscan only fill the FOC role, not TOP \[BM87\].
Intheir framework, no expression can simultaneouslybe TOP and FOC.
x7 This is reminiscent of thepragmatic ontrast in English between it and thatin focus-marking constructions, as illustrated in 2a-b) below.
That is acceptable, while it is not, as asyntactically focussed element:(2)a.
That /* I t  I bought for my mother,but I could get another one for you.b.
Pepper is okay, but don't add more curry.It's ?that/* i t  that makes me sneeze.These examples are compatible with the conver-sational data in the following way.
If TOP andFOC are truly contrastive grammatical functions,the above examples how that that is more accept-able as FOC.
We have seen that it is less likelywhen the antecedent is NP or OTH than when itis PRO, that it occurs often as SUB, and oftenwith SUB antecedents.
Thus it, whether fullfill-ing LC or not, correlates with other properties ofdiscourse topics.
An entity that has been referredto by an antecedent pronoun has already been lo-cated in the universe of discourse, and already hasthe informational status of given prior to the oc-currence of the pronoun itself, and thus is a likelytopic.
We have also seen that that is unlikely withPROsvB antecedents, which would correlate witha presumed likelihood for that to not express TOP.But further evidence regarding the informationaland attentional status of the likely referents of thatreinforces the presumed TOP/FOC contrast.The first case we'll look at involves NP an-tecedents.
Table 2 shows the distribution of an-tecedent NPs, classifed according to whether theywere given or not, by lexical choice of it or that.A referent was classified as given if it had been16In addition, there is a separate  set of demonstrat ivepronouns.17More specifically, not at the  same level of LFG func-t ional clause structure.67mentioned previously, if it was closely associatedwith a previously mentioned entity (e.g., socialworker and the social work profession), or if it wasa commonly known individual entity whose iden-tity would would be known to either speaker (e.g.,places such as New York City).
The very low prob-ability for the X 2 of Table 2 (p = .01%) indicatesthat the tendency for that to occur with new an-tecedents and for it to occur with given antecedentsis extremely significant.
Further classifying the lo-cal utterance contexts by GR in various ways didnot reveal any further significant distinctions.
Thisresult, while not counter-intuitive, is not one thatwould be obvious without looking at frequency dis-tributions in actual on-line discourse, since it caneasily and naturally be used to co-specify with anew antecedent, or that with a given antecedent.Some examples from the interviews are shown in3-4) with the relevant pronoun token and its NPantecedent in boldface.
They have been particu-larly selected to show that the occurring pronouncan be felicitously replaced with the opposite choice(shown in parentheses).
(3)Cla:Clb:Clc:C~ :Ca :(4)it is the service that you give to otherpeople be it as a doctor or a socialworker a psychiatrist or a lawyeryou have a cer ta in  exper t i seand people use that  (it)C1 "C2a:Cab:Ca :C4 :I know we've had information about itand uh if not you can a-just write directly to Bryn Mawrand ask them about the p~ogrRmand see if they still have it (that)One way to interpret hese results is that a singlereference to a new entity is insufficient to establishthe entity as part of the universe of discourse, giventhe processing demands of actual on-line discourse.In the cases where an entity is already given, butis referred to by a full NP rather than a pronoun(for whatever reason), the entity can be successfullyreinvoked in the immediately following utteranceby a 3ds pronoun.
If the entity is new, a single priormention is not in general sufficient, with respect othese data, to predispose the use of a 3ds pronounto reinvoke it.
Instead, the demonstrative functionsto incorporate these new entities into the context.The demonstrative has another singular func-tion with NP antecedents.
Table 1 singles out2 significant contexts where there was a full NPNP Ant.
Relevant Not Rel.NPsvB/ITsvB 7 11NPnon-SVB/IT .
.
.
.
sub 17 21NPx/ITx 31 22NPsuB/THATxuB 2 3N P .
.
.
.
suB/TH AT .
.
.
.
sub 3:t 9NPx/ITx 23 17Table X ~ 14Probability .016Table 3: Subsequent Discourse Relevanceantecedent (cells 13, 16).
If the antecedent wasan NPnonstrBs, there was an increased likelihoodfor thatnonstrns and a decreased likelihood foritst~B.r.
Because itsunJ is the canonical indi-cator of LC, and because LCs are presumed tohave discourse relevance (i.e., play a central rolein the current DSP), I hypothesized that the link-age between an antecedent NPnonSUBJ and a co-specifying thatnonSUBJ served to mark the referentas being unlike a local center by being peripheralto the current DSP.
This was tested by examin-ing how often an entity mentioned in the NP con-texts was mentioned later in the discourse.
Table3 depicts the contexts in which an antecedent NPwas followed by it or that, where GR for each wasSUB or non-SUB, or where the GR values differed(X).
These 6 contexts were coded for whether thereferent was referred to again within the 10 utter-ances following the utterance containing the pro-noun.
If so, the entity was coded as relevant; elseit was non-relevant.
The low probability of 1.6%indicates a significant correlation.
The 2 cells con-tributing the most to the overall significance werefor the NPno~-StrB/THATno,,-strB context, withnon-relevant entities occurring significantly often,and relevant entities occurring significantly rarely.This evidence supports the view that the featuresof this context function to re-invoke ntities whilesimultaneously signalling their peripheral status.The final referring function discussed here iswhere the demonstrative has an OTH antecedent.When N1 is OTHnonSUB (contexts 21-24), itSUBis unlikely (context 21), and both cases of thatsuB(context 22) and thatno,,-SVB (context 24) are sig-nificantly frequent.
I will argue that these OTHcontexts exemplify intra-textual deixis, which isanalogous to the cases of discourse deixis stud-ied by Webber \[Web90\].
I refer to these casesas intra-textual deixis because the deictic refer-ence involves referents related to grammatical con-stituents rather than to discourse segments.In previous work, I pointed out that the criti-cal feature of the antecedent type which favors thelexical choice of that is syntactic, namely the dis-tinction between NPs with lexical noun heads andother types of constituents \[Sch84\].
Contexts whereN1 is an NP whose head is a derived nominaliza-tion (such as the careful choice of one's words)pat-tern like those where the head is a lexical noun.
IsGerundives fall into the OTH class.
Unlike NPs,the OTH antecedents cannot be marked for def-initeness: *a/*the carefully choosing one's wordsversus a/the careful choice of words.
Definitenessis one of the means for indicating whether a refer-ent is presupposed to be part of the current context.Thus a possible difference between the interpreta-tion of the two types of phrases carefully choosingone's words and a careful choice of words wouldhave to do with whether there is a discourse ntityin the context as a consequence of the occurrenceof the phrase itself.
(5)Via :C:~a :C2b:Csa:Csb:C4 :there are some books that wehave that talk about interviewingum one's  called Sweaty Palmswhich I think is a great title (laugh)um but it talks very interestinglyabout how to go about  in terv iewingand that 's  that ' s  going to be importantAnother feature of OTH antecedents pertains totheir ability to evoke specific entities into the uni-verse of discourse.
Compare the two pronouns inexample 5).
The token of it in C~a unambiguouslyrefers to the one book called Sweaty Palms.
Thereferent of that in C4 is much harder to pin down.Does it correspond to interviewing, or to how togo about interviewing?
This example illustrates aninherent vagueness in the processing of finding atextual referent for a demonstrative which I willnow describe in more detail.Webber \[Web90\] notes that deictic reference isinherently ambiguous, although I prefer the termvague, in that vagueness connotes an underspeci-fled interpretation that can be given a number ofmore specific readings.
Webber argues persuasivelythat deictic reference to a discourse segment is re-stricted to references to open segments on the rightfrontier, but that there is still an ambiguity as towhich segment might be referred to, due to therecursive nature of discourse segmentation.
Sincean open segment on the right frontier may containlSMixed nominals, such as the careful choosing of one'swords, occurred too rarely to have a discriminating effect oncontexts favoring it or that.within it an embedded open segment that is also onthe right frontier, a token of the demonstrative thatrefers to a discourse segment can be ambiguous be-tween a more inclusive segment and a less inclusiveone \[Web90\].
The vagueness may be eliminated ifthe context in which the deictic expression occursclearly selects one of the possible readings.
Thisphenomenon pertaining to deictic reference to seg-ments is replicated in the cases where that has anOTH antecedent, hus in C4 of 5), the antecedent ofthe demonstrative pronoun could be interviewing,or the more inclusive expression go about interview-ing, or the more inclusive one yet how to go aboutinterviewing.
I will now argue that such expres-sions do not in and of themselves introduce entitiesinto the universe of discourse.
(6)UI:V2:Us:I noticed that Carol insisted onsewing her dressesk from non-synthetic fabric.That's an example of how observant I am.And theyk  always turn out beautifully.
(7)UI:V2:Us:I noticed that Caro l i  insisted onsewing her dresses from non-synthetic fabric.That ' s  an example of how observant I am.
*That ' s  because shei 's  allergic to synthetics.
(8)UI:V2:U3:I noticed that Caro l /  insisted onsewing her dresses from non-synthetic fabric.She/shou ld  try the new rayon challis.
*That ' s  because she's allergic to synthetics.The examples in 6)-8) show that entities intro-duced by referential NPs in U1 are still availablefor pronominal reference in Us, after an interveningU2.
Ux introduces the referring expressions Caroland her dresses.
Example 6) shows that the refer-ent of her dresses is still available in U 3 even thoughit is not mentioned in U2.
Instead, Us containsa pronoun that refers to the fact that is assertedby the whole utterance U1.
In contrast, the refer-ent of the non-nominal sentence constituent--Carolinsisted on sewing her dresses from non-syntheticfabric--is not available after an intervening sen-tence that contains a deictic reference to a differ-ent non-nominal constituent, as in 7), or after anintervening sentence that contains a reference to adiscourse ntity mentioned in U1, as in 8).The preceding examples how that OTH con-stituents do not introduce entities into the dis-course context.
With such antecedents, the demon-69strative does not access a pre-existing discourse n-tity, but rather, plays a role in a referring functionby virtue of which a new discourse entity is addedto the context.
The occurrence of the demonstra-tive triggers a referring function that is constrainedby the semantics of the demonstrative pronounand its local semantic ontext, the antecedent, andother contextual considerations.
The result of ap-plying an appropriate referring function is to in-crement he context with the new discourse entitythat is found to be the referent of the demonstra-tive pronoun.This investigation has shown that a pronoundoes not achieve discourse reference in and of it-self.
In combination with various linguistic prop-erties of the prior utterance, and depending on thestatus of the referent in the context, a pronoun mayhave distinct referring functions.
Although this in-vestigation has focussed primarily on non-animatepronouns, future research is expected to show thatelements of the contrast between it and that oc-cur with animate 3d pronouns (e.g., he, she) sincethese pronouns have both demonstrative and non-demonstrative uses.ReferencesIBM87\]\[rJ84\]\[Giv76\]\[GJW83\]\[Gro77\]\[GS86\]\[Isa7S\]Joan Bresnan and Sam A. Mchombo.
Topic,pronoun and agreement in Chiche@a. InM.
Iida, S. Wechsler, and D. Zec, editors,Working Papers in Grammatical Theory andDiscourse Structure, pages 1-60.
CSLI, 1987.William A. Foley and Robert D. Van ValinJr.
Functioned Syntoz and Universal Gram-mar.
Cambridge University Press, Cam-bridge, 1984.Talmy Givon.
Topic, pronoun, and gram-matical agreement.
In Charles N. Li, editor,Subject and Topic, pages 149-188.
AcademicPress, New York, 1976.Barbara J. Grosz, A. K. Joshi, and S. Wein-stein.
Providing a unified account of definitenoun phrases in discourse.
In Proceedings ofthe $lst ACL, pages 44-50, 1983.Barbara Grosz.
The Representation a d Useo\] Focus in Dialogue Understanding.
PhDthesis, University of California, Berkeley,1977.Barbara J. Grosz and Candace L. Sidner.
At-tention, intentions and the structure of dis-course.
Computational Linguistica, 12:175-204, 1986.S.
Isard.
Changing the context.
InE.L.Keenan, editor, Formal Semantics o\]Natural Language, pages 287-296.
Cam-bridge U.
Press, Cambridge, 1975.\[Kam86\]\[Kap89\]\[Li76\]\[Pas89\]\[Pasg0\]\[Pei35\]\[Pri81\]\[Sch84\]\[Sch85\]\[Sid83\]\[Webg0\]Megumi Kameyama.
A property-sharingconstraint in centering.
In Proceedings of the24th Annual Meeting of the A CL, pages 200-206, 1986.David Kaplan.
Demonstratives.
In J. Almog,J.
Perry, and H. Wettstein, editors, Themesfrom Kaplan, pages 481-566.
Oxford Univer-sity Press, New York, 1989.Charles N. Li.
Subject and Topic.
AcademicPress, New York, 1976.Rebecca J. Passonneau.
Getting at discoursereferents.
In Proceedings of the 27th AnnualMeeting of the ACL, pages 51-59, 1989.Rebecca J. Passonneau.
Getting and keep-ing the center of attention.
In R. Weischedeland M. Bates, editors, Challenges in Natu-ral Language Processing.
Cambridge Univer-sity Press, 1990.
To appear; also available asTech.
Report GUCS-060-90, Dept.
of Com-puter Science, Columbia University.Charles S. Peirce.
In C. Hartshorne andP.
Weiss, editors, Collected Papers o\] CharlesSanders Peirce.
Harvard University Press,Cambridge, MA, 1931-35.Ellen Prince.
Towards a taxonomy of given-new information.
In P. Cole, editor, RadicalPragniatics, pages 223-55.
Academic Press,New York, 1981.Rebecca J.
(Passonneau) Sehiffman.
The twonominal anaphors it and that.
In Proceedingsof the 20th Regional Meeting of the ChicagoLinguistic Society, pages 322-357, 1984.Rebecca J.
(Passonneau) Schiffman.
Dis-course Constraints on it and that: A Studyo\] Language Use in Career-Counseling Inter-views.
PhD thesis, University of Chicago,1985.Candace L. Sidner.
Focusing in the compre-hension of definite anaphora.
In M. Bradyand R. C. Berwick, editors, ComputationalModels of Discourse, pages 267-330.
TheMIT Press, Cambridge, Massachusetts, 1983.Bonnie L. Webber.
Structure and osten-sion in the interpretation of discourse deixis.Technical Report MS-CIS-90-58, LINC LAB183, University of Pennsylvania Computerand Information Science Department, 1990.To appear in Language and Cognitive Pro-cesses.70
