A THREE-LEVEL MODEL FOR PLAN EXPLORATIONLance A. RamshawDepartment of Computer ScienceBowdoin CollegeBrunswick, ME 04011Internet: ramshaw@polar.bowdoin.eduABSTRACTIn modeling the structure of task-related discourseusing plans, it is important to distinguish betweenplans that the agent has adopted and is pursuingand those that are only being considered and ex-plored, since the kinds of utterances arising froma particular domain plan and the patterns of ref-erence to domain plans and movement within theplan tree are quite different in the two cases.
Thispaper presents a three-level discourse model thatuses separate domain and exploration layers, inaddition to a layer of discourse metaplans, allow-ing these distinct behavior patterns and the planadoption and reconsideration moves they imply tobe recognized and modeled.DISCOURSE MODEL LEVELSIn task-related discourse, much of the discoursestructure derives directly from the task structure,so that a model of the agent's plans can serve asa useful discourse model, with discourse segmentboundaries mapping to sub-plan boundaries andthe like.
This simple model works well in appli-cations like expert-apprentice dialogues, where anovice agent is currently pursuing a single domainplan.
Since the discourse tracks the domain planso closely in such cases, it is fairly easy to make thelinks between the agent's queries and the relevantdomain plans.But this single-level model is not rich enoughto handle phenomena like clarification subdia-logues or plan revision, as seen in the work ofLitman, Carberry, and others.
Litman's model\[Lit85, LA87, LA90\] employs a stack of discoursemctaplans on top of the base domain plan, produc-ing a two-level model that can handle clarificationsubdialogues and other discourse phenomena thatgo beyond the domain plans.
Carberry \[Carg0\]adds an independent stack of discourse goals, forsimilar reasons.In earlier work \[Ram89a\], I explored the useof a different kind of metaplan to model what Icalled the problem-solving level, where the agentis exploring possible plans, rather than pursuingan adopted one.
Such plan exploration contexts,which can include comparison between alternativeplans or consideration ofplans in hypothetical cir-cumstances, are quite different from adopted do-main plan execution contexts, both in terms of thereference patterns to domain plans and in termsof the kinds of utterances that are generated.This paper describes an effort to combine theseearlier approaches into a three-level model wherethe discourse metaplans can be rooted in either theexploration or domain plan levels, so that bothkinds of plan-related behavior can be modeled.Such a model can capture the differences betweenthe plan exploration level and the domain levelin terms of the appropriate plan recognition andquery generation processes, thus broadening therange of discourse phenomena that can be mod-eled.
It also allows us to model shifts between lev-els, as the agent explores, adopts, and reconsidersparticular plans.THE NATUREOF PLAN EXPLORATIONCohen and Levesque \[CLg0\] have recently pointedout the theoretical problems that arise, while us-ing a planning system to model a rational agent,from failing to distinguish between a system'splans and its intentions, since agents frequentlyform plans that they never adopt.
It is this samedistinction that motivates the division proposedhere of the domain-plan-related portion of the dis-course model into separate levels representing firstthose domain plans and goals which the agent hasadopted and is pursuing, here called the domain39layer, and second those which the agent is explor-ing but has not adopted, the exploration layer.While the same domain plans give structure tothese two levels, the resulting discourse phenom-ena including the space of relevant queries basedon those plans and the patterns of references toplans in the plan tree are quite different.QUERY TYPESOne clear difference can be seen in the content ofutterances arising on those different layers fromthe same underlying domain plan.
For example,in a banking context, consider these two queries:What is the interest rate on your pass-book account?To whom do I make out the cheek .for theinitial deposit on a passbook account?The interest rate query is an example of a querybased in an exploration context, since the interestrate on an account affects its desirability comparedto other accounts but has no instrumental rele-vance to any of the plan steps involved in openingan account.
The query about the check payee, onthe other hand, plays a local instrumental role inthe open-account plan, but has no relevance out-side of that particular subplan.Some queries, of course, can arise in either kindof context.
For example,What's the min imum initial deposit for apassbook account?could be either an exploration level query froman agent weighing the comparative advantages ofa passbook account versus a CD, or it could bea domain level query from an agent who had al-ready decided to open a passbook account, andwho needed to know how large a check to write toopen it.
Thus the context model for that query isambiguous between the two interpretations.There are also whole classes of queries that maybe generated on the plan exploration level but thatdo not arise when agents are pursuing an adopteddomain plan, as when an agent asks queries aboutthe possible plans for a goal or about possiblefillers for a variable within a plan.
For example,What does it take $o open an account?asks about he subactions in a plan being explored,andWhat kinds of accounts do you offer?asks for possible fillers of the account-class vari-able.
Such queries imply that the agent does nothave any fully-instantiated a opted plan in mind.DOMAIN PLAN REFERENCESAnother difference between the exploration anddomain levels comes in the patterns of referencesto domain plans.
An agent pursuing an adopteddomain plan has a single subplan in focus and typ-ically shifts that focus in an orderly way relatedto the sequential steps in that plan.
On the otherhand, at the exploration level, the possible pat-terns of movement are much less constrained, andconflicting alternative plans or multiple hypothet-ical plans may be explored simultaneously.
Explo-ration metaplans can capture these more complexpatterns.For example, agents frequently generate queriesthat compare particular features of alternativeplans for the same goal.
For instance, after ask-ing about the interest rate on passbook accounts,the agent might naturally ask about the rate forCD's.
This kind of comparison can be modeledby a compare-by-feature plan exploration recta-plan, which represents the close discourse connec-tion between the similar features of the two dif-ferent plans.
Such feature by feature comparisonwould be hard to capture in a model based directlyon the domain plans, since the focus would haveto jump back and forth between the two alterna-tives.
At each step, such a model would seem topredict further queries about the current plan asmore likely than a jump back to a query aboutthe other plan, while at the exploration level, wecan have plan comparison metaplans that captureeither a plan by plan or a feature by feature ap-proach.A different kind of complex domain plan ref-erence can occur in a hypothetical explorationquery, where the agent explores plans in a con-text that includes projected states of affairs thatare different from her own current world model.Of course there is a sense in which every explo-ration level query is hypothetical, since it con-cerns the preconditions or effects of executing aplan to which the agent is not yet committed, butthe issue here concerns hypothetical queries thatassume more than the adoption of the single planbeing explored.
While modeling arbitrary hypo-theticals requires more than a planning system,there are cases where the hypothetical e ement inthe agent's question can be expressed by assum-ing the adoption of some other plan in additionto the one currently explored.
For example, for ahypothetical query likeI f  I put $1000 in a 1-year CD and with-drew it in a month, what would be the40penalty ?it seems that an exploration level metaplan coulduse the purchase-CD plan to create the hypothet-ical context in which the query about the with-drawal plan penalty is to be understood.Thus the domain plan references in explorationutterances often do not correspond closely to theshape of the domain level plan tree.
Explorationmetaplans can supply alternative structures thatbetter capture the more complex reference pat-terns involved in examples like feature compar-isons or hypothetical queries.MOVES BETWEEN LEVELSFinally, distinguishing between domain plan andexploration behavior is important so that the sys-tem can recognize when the agent moves from onelevel to the other.
If an agent has been askingevaluative queries and then proceeds to ask a puredomain level query about one of those plan op-tions, the system should recognize that the agenthas adopted that particular plan and is now ac-tively pursuing it, rather than continuing to eval-uate alternatives.
Such an adoption of a particularsubplan establishes the expectation that the agentwill continue to pursue it, perhaps asking furtherdomain level queries, either until it is completedand focus moves on to a new plan or until a planblockage or second thoughts on the agent's parttrigger a reconsideration move back to the explo-ration level.We can see the importance of this distinctionin the care taken by human agents to make clearthe level at which they are operating.
Agents usemood, cue phrases, and direct informing acts tokeep their expert advisor informed as to whetherthey are speaking of adopted plans or of ones onlybeing explored, so that the expert's plan trackingand responses can be fully cooperative.STRUCTURE OF THE MODELTHE DOMAIN LEVELThe base level in the model is always a domainplan structure representing the plans and goalsthat the agent is believed to have adopted andto be currently pursuing.
These plans are orga-nized (adapting a technique from gautz \[Kau85\])into a classification hierarchy based on their ef-fects, so that the subplan children of a class ofplans represent alternative possible strategies forachieving the given effects.
The plans also includetraditional action links outlining their action de-composition i  terms of more primitive plans.There are two classes of predicates in a plandefinition: precondition., which must be true forthe plan to be executed but which can be re-cursively planned for, and constraint, (using Lit-man's word--Carberry calls them "applicabilityconditions") which cannot be recursively plannedfor.
Each predicate is also classified as to its rel-evance, where internally relevant predicates arethose whose bindings must be known in orderto execute the plan and external predicates arethose whose bindings are relevant when evaluatingthe plan from the outside.
Thus, using the ear-lier examples, the payee identity for write-checkis only internally relevant, the interest rate foropen-savings-account is only externally relevant,and the minimum initial deposit feature is rele-vant both internally and externally.
This heuris-tic classification of predicates i used to indicatewhich ones can be expanded at the domain vs.exploration levels.THE EXPLORATION LEVELThe basic exploration metaplan is explore-plan it-self, which takes an instantiated domain plan asits single parameter.
The expected efault ex-ploration pattern simply follows the domain plantree shape, exploring the subplans and actions be-neath that plan, using the explore-subplan andexplore-subactlon metaplans.
This default behav-ior is compiled in by linking each exploration levelnode to the explore-plan odes for the subplansand subactions of the domain plan it references.Thus when the system models a move to the ex-ploration level from a given domain plan node, theentire subtree of possible plans and actions be-neath that node is also instantiated beneath theinitial exploration level node.The more complex exploration level strategiesare encoded as metalevel subplans and subactionsof explore-plan.
For example, compare-subplans isa subplan of explore-plan, and compare-by-featureis in turn one subplan of compare-subplans.
Thesystem works from this library of explorationmetaplans to create trees of possible contexts be-neath each explore-plan node that model these al-ternative strategies of plan exploration.THE DISCOURSE LEVELThe metaplan structure directly underlying an ut-terance is always a discourse metaplan, though itmay be as simple as an ask-value metaplan (likeLitman's identify-parameter) directly based in thecurrent domain plan context.
As in Litman's ap-proach, phenomena like clarification subdialogues41Discourse :* (ask-sub-plans (open-savings-account agent1 ?bank))Exp lorat ion :* (explore-plan (conduct-banking-activlty agent1))* (explore-plan (open-savings-account agent1 ?bank))Domain :* (manage-money agent1)* (conduct-banking-activity agentl)Figure 1: What kinds of savings accounts do you offer?can be handled by further layers of discourse meta.plans that introduce additional structure abovethe domain plan.
In this three-level model, thesediscourse layer metaplans can also be based on ex-ploration level plans.In testing for a match between agiven query anda discourse context like ask-value, the discoursemetaplans have access to the set of relevant pred-icates from the base context.
In determining thatset, the system uses the appropriate r levance cri-teria depending on whether the base context is atthe domain or exploration level.
There are alsoparticular discourse plans, such as the ask-fillersplan, that require that their base context be atthe exploration level.OPERAT ION OF  THE MODELFor each utterance, the system begins from theprevious context(s) and searches for a discoursenode (based either on a domain or explorationnode) that matches the utterance.
In the follow-ing example, an initial domain level context is as-sumed, with the default op-level goal being thatdeduced from the situation of the agent enteringa bank and approaching the receptionist, namely,(conduct-banklng-activity ?agent) as a subplan of(manage-money ?agent).The matching context for the initial query,What kind8 of savings accounts do youoffer?is seen in Figure i, with asterisks used to markthe current focused path.
No match in the as-sumed context is found to this particular queryusing discourse metaplans based in domain plans,although one can imagine other contexts in whichthis query could be a step in pursuing an adoptedplan, as in a journalist compiling a consumer's re-port on various banks.
But using the normal plansfor banking customers, this query matches only onthe exploration level, where the agent is exploringthe plan of opening a savings account.Note that an exploration level match could alsobe found by assuming that the move to the explo-ration level occurs at open-savings-account, sug-gesting that the agent has adopted not just theplan conduct-banking-activity, but also the morespecific plan open-savings-account.
The systemfinds both matches in such cases, but heuristicallyprefers the one which makes the weakest assump-tions about plans and goals adopted by the agent,thus preferring the model where the open-savings-account plan is only being explored.Suppose the agent continues with the queryWhat's the interest raze on your passbookaccount?This is matched by a discourse plan based onexploring one of the subplans of open-savings-account, which was the previous exploration levelcontext, as seen in Figure 2 at #1.
The systemalso explores the possibility of matching to a dis-course plan based in a domain level plan, whichwould imply the agent's adoption of the plan.However, the interest rate feature has only exter-nal relevance, and thus cannot match queries onthe domain level.
This query does finds a secondmatch as the beginning of a compare-by-feature(at ~2), but the heuristics prefer the match thatis closer to the previous context, while discourag-ing the one-legged comparison.The agent's next query,And the rate for the investment account?42Discourse:* (ask-value agent ?rate (open-passbook-account ...))Exploration:* (explore-plan (conduct-banking-activity agent1))* (explore-plan (open-savings-account agent1 ?bank))* (explore-plan (open-passbook-account agent1 ?bank)) #1(compare-by-feature (open-savings-account agent1 ?bank)(compare-feature (open-passbook-account ...) (interest-rate-of ...)) #2Domes:* (manage-money agent1)* (conduct-banking-activity agent1)Figure 2: What's the interest rate for the passbook account?Discourse :* (ask-value agent1 ?rate (interest-rate-of ...))Exp lorat ion :* (explore-plan (conduct-banking-activity agent1))* (explore-plan (open-savings-account agent1 ?bank))(explore-plan (open-passbook-account agent1 ?bank))(explore-plan (open-investment-account agent1 ?bank)) #i* (compare-by-feature (open-savings-account ...)(interest-rate-of ...))(compare-feature (open-passbook-account ...)(interest-rate-of ...))* (compare-feature (open-investment-account ...)(interest-rate-of ...)) #2Domain:* (manage-money agent1)* (conduct-banking-activity agent 1)Figure 3: And the rate for the investment account?can also be matched in two different ways, asseen in Figure 3.
One way (at #1) is based inan explore-plan for open-investment-account, s g-gesting that the agent has simply turned from ex-ploring one plan to exploring an alternative one.But this query also matches (at #2) as a secondleg of the compare-by-feature subplan of explore-plan, where the query is part of the comparisonbetween the two kinds of savings accounts basedon the interest rate offered.
Since that serves asa close continuation of the feature comparison i -terpretation of the previous query, the latter in-terpretation is preferred.The following two queriesHow big is the initial deposit for the,pass-book account?And for the investment account?can be matched by a sibling compare-by-featuresubtree, as seen in Figure 4.
This approach is thusable to represent the logical feature-by-featurestructure of such a comparison, rather than havingto bounce back and forth between explorations ofthe two subplan trees.The next query,OK, tuho do I see to open a passbook ac-count?makes a substantial change in the context, as43Discourse :* (ask-value agentl ?deposit (init-deposit-of ...))Explorat ion:* (explore-plan (conduct-banking-activity agentl))* (explore-plan (open-savings-account agentl ?bank))(explore-plan (open-passbook-account agentl ?bank))(explore-plan (open-investment-account agentl ?bank))(compare-by-feature (open-savings-account ...)(interest-rate-of ...))(compare-feature (open-passbook-account ...)(interest-rate-of ...))(compare-feature (open-investment-account ...)(interest-rate-of ...))* (compare-by-feature (open-savings-account ...)(init-deposit-of ...))* (compare-feature (open-passbook-account...)(init-deposit-of ...))* (compare-feature (open-investment-account ...)(init-deposit-of ...))Domain:* (manage-money agent 1)* (conduct-banking-activity agentl)Figure 4: How big is the initial deposit for the passbook accountf And for the investment account?Discourse :* (ask-fillers agentl  ?staff)Doma~l.
** (manage-money agent1)* (conduct-banking-activity agent1)* (open-savings-account agentl ?bank)* (open-passbook-account agent1 ?bank)* (fill-out-application agent1 ?staff )Figure 5: OK, who do I see to open a passbook accountfshown in Figure 5.
Since the choice of the bankpersonnel for opening an account is an internal fea-ture that can only be queried on the domain level,the only matches to this query are ones that implythat the agent has adopted the plan that she waspreviously exploring.
Modeling that adoption, theparallel path in the domain tree to the path thatwas being explored becomes the current domaincontext, and the matching discourse plan is basedthere.
The cue phrase "OK", of course, is a fur-ther signal of this change in level, though not onethe system can yet make use of.In spite of that plan adoption, the agent canlater reopen an exploration context concerning asubplan by saying, for example,What kinds of checks do you hayerShe could also raise a query that implies a recon-sideration of the previous plan adoption by sayingI forgot to ask whether there are anymaintenance charges on this account.which would reestablish an exploration context ofchoosing between the passbook and investment ac-counts.COMPARISON WITHEX IST ING WORKThe general framework of using domain plans tomodel discourse structure is one that has been44widely pursued and shown to be fruitful for var-ious purposes \[All79, AP80, Car84, Car85, GS85,Sid85\].
Important extensions have been mademore recently in plan classification \[Kau85\] andin modeling plans in terms of beliefs, so as to beable to handle incorrect plans \[Po186, Polg0\].The most direct precursor of the model pre-sented here is Litman and Allen's work \[Lit85,LA87, LAg0\], which combines a domain planmodel with discourse metaplans in a way that canmodel utterances arising from either the normalflow of domain plans, clarification subdialogues,or cases of domain plan modification.
Like explo-ration metaplans, their discourse plans can handleexamples that do not mirror the execution struc-ture of the domain plan.
Their system, however,makes the assumption that the agent is pursuinga single domain plan.
While the agent can mod-ify a plan, there is no way to capture an agent'sexploration of a number of different domain planpossibilities, the use of varying exploration strate-gies, or the differences between utterances that arebased on exploration plans vs. those based on do-main plans.Carberry developed a model \[Carg0\] that is sim-ilar to Litman's in combining domain plans witha discourse component, although this model's dis-course plans operate on a separate stack ratherthan as a second layer of the domain plan model.While the mechanisms of her model cover a widevariety of discourse goals, they make no distinc-tion between domain and exploration plans.
Theyare thus also limited to following a single domainplan context at a time.In earlier work \[Ram89a\], I presented a modelthat accounts for the plan refining and query as-pects of plan exploration by using a tree of plan-building metaplans, and much of that structure isincorporated in this model.
However, that versionuses only a single layer of plan-building metaplans,so that it is strictly limited to plan explorationdiscourse.
It thus cannot model queries arising di-rectly from the domain level, nor can it model themoves of plan adoption or reconsideration whenthe agent switches levels.
The plan-building treesin that earlier version are also limited to followingthe structure of the domain plans, and so are un-able to represent comparison by features or otheralternative exploration strategies, and that earliermodel also lacks a separate discourse component.Lambert and Carberry \[Lamg0, LCgl\] are cur-rently working on a new, three-level approach thathas much in common with the one presented here.One interesting difference is that the three levelsin their model form a hierarchy, with discourseplans always rooted in exploration plans.
Whilethis may be appropriate for information-seekingdiscourse, allowing discourse plans to be rooteddirectly in domain plans can provide a naturalway of representing utterances based directly onadopted plans.
Overall, their model makes ignifi-cant contributions on the discourse level, allowingfor the recognition of a wide range of discourseplans like expressing surprise or warning.
In con-trast, the main focus in this work has been on theexploration level, modeling alternative explorationstrategies, and plan adoption and reconsideration.It would be fruitful to try to combine the two ap-proaches.IMPLEMENTATION ANDFUTURE WORKThe model presented here has been implementedin a system called Pragma (redone from the ear-lier Pragma system \[RamSOb\]) which handles theexamples covered in the paper.
Since the focus ison modeling plan exploration strategies, the initialcontext is directly input in the form of a domainplan with its parameter values, and the queriesare input as meaning representations.
The out-put after each query is the updated set of contextmodels.The system has been exercised in the bankingand course registration domains, though it is onlypopulated with enough domain plans to serve asa testbed for the plan exploration strategies.
Theexploration level is the most developed, includingmetaplans for constraining or instantiating planvariables and for exploring or comparing subplansusing various strategies.
The discourse level cur-rently includes only the metaplans ask-value, ask-plans, and ask-fillers.Important next steps include expanding the col-lection of exploration level metaplans from thesamples worked out so far to better character-ize the full range of plan exploration strategiesthat people actually use, validating that collec-tion against real data.
It would be particularlyinteresting to add coverage for the hypotheticalqueries discussed above, where the assumed eventis another known domain plan.
The coverage ofdiscourse level metaplans should be expanded, tobetter explore their interaction with explorationplans.
The system should also be made sen-sitive to other indicators for recognizing movesbetween the exploration and domain levels be-sides the class of predicate queried, including verb45mood, cue phrases, and direct inform statementsby the agent.CONCLUSIONSThis work suggests that plan exploration meta-plans can be a useful and domain independentway of expanding the range of discourse phenom-ena that can be captured based on a model of theagent's domain plans.
While the more complexexploration strategies complicate the plan recogni-tion task of connecting discourse phenomena withthe underlying domain plans, exploration meta-plans can successfully model those strategies andalso allow us to recognize the moves of plan explo-ration, adoption, and reconsideration.References\[AI179\]lAPS0\]\[CarS4\]\[CarS,\]\[Car90\]\[CL90\]\[csss\]\[Kan65\]James F. Allen.
A Plan-Based Ap-proach to Speech-Act Recognition.
PhDthesis, University of Toronto, 1979.James F. Allen and C. Raymond Per-rault.
Analyzing intention in utter-ances.
Artificial Intelligence, 15:143-178, 1980.Sandra Carberry.
Understanding prag-matically ill-formed input.
In Pro-ceedings of the lOth International Con-ference on Computational Linguistics,pages 200-206, 1984.Sandra Carberry.
A pragmatics-basedapproa~ to understanding intersenten-tim ellipsis.
In Proceedings of the ~3rdAnnual Meeting o/the ACL, pages 188-197, 1985.Sandra Carberry.
Plan Recognition inNatural Language Dialogue.
The MITPress, 1990.Philip R. Cohen and Hector J.Levesque.
Intention is choice withcommitment.
Artificial Intelligence,42:213-261, 1990.Barbara Grosz and Candace Sidner.The structures of discourse structure.Technical Report 6097, Bolt Beranekand Newman, 1985.Henry A. Kautz.
Toward a theory ofplan recognition.
Technical Report 162,University of Rochester, 1985.\[LA87\]\[LA90\]\[Lam90\]\[LC91\]\[Lit85\]\[I>o186\]\[Pol90\]\[Ram89a\]\[R SOb\]\[Sid85\]Dianne Litman and James Allen.
Aplan recognition model for subdialoguesin conversation.
Cognitive Science,11:163-200, 1987.Dianne Litman and James Allen.
Dis-course processing and commonsenseplans.
In P. Cohen, J. Morgan, andM.
Pollack, editors, Intentions in Com-munication, pages 365-388.
MIT Press,1990.Lynn Lambert.
A plan-based modelof discourse understanding.
TechnicalReport 91-04, University of Delaware,1990.Lynn Lambert and Sandra Carberry.A tripartite, plan-based model of dia-logue.
In Proceedings of the ~gth An-nual Meeting of the ACL, 1991.Dianne J. Litman.
Plan Recognitionand Discourse Analysis: An IntegratedApproach for Understanding Dialogues.PhD thesis, University of Rochester,1985.Martha E. Pollack.
Inferring Do-main Plans in Question-Answering.PhD thesis, University of Pennsylvania,1986.Martha E. Pollack.
Plans as complexmental attitudes.
In P. Cohen, J. Mor-gan, and M. Pollack, editors, Intentionsin Communication, pages 77-103.
MITPress, 1990.Lance A. Ramshaw.
A metaplan modelfor problem-solving discourse.
In Pro-ceedings of the Fourth Conference of theEuropean Chapter of the ACL, pages35-42, 1989.Lance A. Ramshaw.
Pragmatic Knowl-edge for Resolving Ill-Formedness.
PhDthesis, University of Delaware, 1989.Candace Sidner.
Plan parsing forintended response recognition in dis-course.
Computational Intelligence,1:1-10, 1985.46
