Current Research in the Development of a Spoken LanguageUnderstanding System using PARSEC*Carla B. ZoltowskiSchool of Electrical EngineeringPurdue UniversityWest Lafayette, IN 47907February 28, 19911 Introduct ionWe are developing a spoken language systemwhich would more effectively merge natural an-guage and speech recognition technology by us-ing a more flexible parsing strategy and utiliz-ing prosody, the suprasegmental information inspeech such as stress, rhythm, and intonation.There is a considerable amount of evidence whichindicates that prosodic information impacts hu-man speech perception at many different levels\[5\].
Therefore, it is generally agreed that spokenlanguage systems would benefit from its addi-tion to the traditional knowledge sources suchas acoustic-phonetic, syntactic, and semantic in-formation.
A recent and novel approach to incor-porating prosodic information, specifically therelative duration of phonetic segments, was de-veloped by Patti Price and John Bear \[1, 4\].They have developed an algorithm for computingbreak indices using a hidden Markov model, andhave modified the context-free grammar rules toincorporate links between non-terminals whichcorresponded to the break indices.
Although in-corporation of this information reduced the num-ber of possible parses, the processing time in-creased because of the addition of the link nodesin the grammar.2 ConstraintGrammarDependencyInstead of using context-free grammars, we areusing a natural language framework based on the*Parallel Architecture Sentence ConstraJnerConstraint Dependency Grammar  (CDG)  for-realism developed by Maruyama \[3\].
This frame-work allows us to handle prosodic informationquite easily, Rather than coordinating lexical,syntactic, semantic, and contextual modules todevelop the meaning of a sentence, we applysets of lexical, syntactic, prosodic, semantic, andpragmatic rules to a packed structure containinga developing picture of the structure and mean-ing of a sentence.
The CDG grammar has a weakgenerative capacity which is strictly greater thanthat of context-free grammars and has the addedadvantage of benefiting significantly from a par-allel architecture \[2\].
PARSEC is our systembased on the CDG formalism.To develop a syntactic and semantic analysisusing this framework, a network of the words fora given sentence is constructed.
Each word isgiven some number indicating its position rela-tive to the other words in the sentence.
Oncea word is entered in the network, the systemassigns all of the possible roles the words canhave by applying the lexical constraints (whichspecify legal word categories) and allowing theword to modify all the remaining words in thesentence or no words at all.
Each of the arcsin the network has associated with it a matrixwhose row and column indices are the roles thatthe words can play in the sentence.
Initially, allentries in the matrices are set to one, indicat-ing that there is nothing about one word's func-tion which prohibits another word's right to filla certain role in the sentence.
Once the net-work is constructed, additional constraints areintroduced to limit the role of each word in thesentence to a single function.
In a spoken lan-guage system which may contain several possiblecandidates for each word, constraints would also353provide feedback about impossible word candi-dates.?
We have been able to incorporate the dura-tional information from Bear and Price quiteeasily into our framework.
An advantage ofour approach is that the prosodic informationis added as constraints instead of incorporat-ing it into a parsing grammar.
Because CDGis more expressive than context-free grammars,we can produce prosodic rules that are more ex-pressive than Bear and Price are able to pro-vide by augmenting context-free grammars, Alsoby formulating prosodic rules as constraints, weavoid the need to clutter our rules with nonter-minals required by context-free grammars whenthey are augmented to handle prosody.
Assum-ing O(n4/log(n)) processors, the cost of apply-ing each constraint is O(log (n))\[2\].
Wheneverwe apply a constraint to the network, our pro-cessing time is incremented by this amount.
Incontrast, Bear and Price, by doubling the size ofthe grammar are multiplying the processing timeby a factor of 8 when no prosodic information isavailable (assuming (2n) 3 = 8n 3 time).3 Current ResearchOur current research effort consists of the devel-opment of algorithms for extracting the prosodicinformation from the speech signal and incor-poration of this information into the PARSECframework.
In addition, we will be working tointerface PARSEC with the speech recognitionsystem being developed at Purdue by Mitchelland Jamieson.We have selected a corpus of 14 syntacticallyambiguous entences for our initial experimen-tation.
We have predicted what prosodic fea-tures humans use to disambiguate he sentencesand are attempting to develop algorithms to ex-tract those features from the speech.
We arehoping to build upon those algorithms presentedin \[1, 4, 5\].
Initially we are using a professionalspeaker trained in prosodics in our experiments,but eventually we will test our results with anuntrained speaker.Although our current system allows multipleword candidates, it assumes that each of the pos-sible words begin and end at the same time.
Itcurrently does not allow for non-aligned wordboundaries.
In addition, the output of the speechrecognition system which we will be utilizing willconsist of the most likely sequence of phonemesfor a given utterance, so additional work will berequired to extract he most likely word candi-dates for use in our system.4 Conclus ionThe CDG formalism provides a very promis-ing framework for our spoken language system.We believe its flexibility will allow it to over-come many of the limitations imposed by naturallanguage systems developed primarily for text-based applications, uch as repeated words andfalse starts of phrases.
In addition, we believethat prosody will help to resolve the ambigu-ity introduced by the speech recognition systemwhich is not present in text-based systems.5 AcknowledgementThis research was supported in part by NSF IRI-9011179 under the guidance of Profs.
Mary P.Harper and Leah H. Jamieson.References\[1\] J.
Bear and P. Price.
Prosody, syntax, and parsing.In Proceedings of the ~8th annual A CL, 1990.\[2\] R. Helzerman and M.P.
Harper.
Parsec: An archi-tecture for parallel parsing of constraint dependencygrammars.
In Submitted to The Proceedings o/the~9th Annual Meeting o.f ACL, June 1991.\[3\] H. Maruyama.
Constraint dependency grammar.Technical Report #RT0044, IBM, Tokyo, Japan,1990.\[4\] P. Price, C. Wightman, M. Ostendorf, and J. Bear.The use of relative duration in syntactic disambigua-tion.
In Proceedings o\] 1CSLP, 1990.\[5\] A. Waibel.
Prosody and Speech Recognition.
MorganKaufmann Publishers, Los Altos, CA, 1988.354
