GENERATING A SPECIF IC  CLASS OF METAPHORSMark Alan Jones 1Department of Computer and Information SciencesUniversity of Delaware, Newark DE 19716Internet: jones@udel.edu1 In t roduct ionAlthough some progress has been made in thearea of metaphor understanding, little has beenmade in metaphor generation.
Current solutionsrely upon a rather direct encoding of alternatives.There is no computational theory that can ac-count for metaphor generation from basic princi-ples.
Although generating all types of metaphorsfrom basic principles is very difficult, there is asubset of metaphors that are prevalent in naturalexpressions and perhaps more amenable to compu-tational approaches.
We call these transparently-motivated (T-M) metaphors (Jones and McCoy1992).
Interestingly, metaphors in general, as wellas the class described here, can be used to achieveimportant textual goals (e.g., brevity, conceptualfit, focus, perspective).Metaphorical expressions often reflect concep-tual models which are the basis for how we under-stand the world.
Mark Johnson (1987) has madesome important observations about the buildingblocks of thought, most notably that they are tiedclosely to our bodily experience.
Among the build-ing blocks he has described are attraction, block-age and containment.
Consider describing the pur-chase of shares of stock as, "I took $2500 out ofmy money market account and put it into Exxoncommon stock."
The speaker did not literally putmoney into the stock, but rather bought stock withthe money.
This metaphor is based on the simpli-fying concepts that represent investments a  con-tainers which can hold money.
When we writeand talk we automatically use non-literal expres-sions that reflect our common conceptual ground-ings.
These lead to very natural and easily under-stood expressions because we (speaker and audi-ence) share these common conceptual groundings.2 Transparent ly -Mot ivated MetaphorAll metaphors have a mapping between twodomains.
The more literal domain is called thetenor domain, the less literal is the metaphoricaldomain.
In the stock example these are the fi-nancial domain and the containment domain re-spectively.
T-M metaphors are similar to conven-tional metaphors (Lakoff and Johnson 1980, Lakoff1987) in that they are both based upon famil-iar conceptual motivations.
However, conventionalmetaphors are also defined in contrast o noveland dead metaphors.
This distinction appeals to1This work is supported by Grant #H133E80015 fromthe National Institute on Disability and Rehabil itation Re-search.
Support has also been provided by The NemoursFoundation.321knowledge about he history of expressions.
In thissense, T-M metaphors are broader in scope, how-ever, in other ways they are more constrained.Several qualities how that the stock exampleabove is transparently-motivated.
It is based onthe bodily grounding of containment.
It conveysthe verb-phrase action message of a purchase beingconducted, which is more than merely the mappingfrom containment to purchase.
This mapping isnot even highlighted, rather it is merely used toconvey the purchase message.Consider two counterexamples.
The expres-sion, "Men are wolves" (Black 1962), is not atransparently-motivated m taphor.
Most impor-tantly, its meaning is primarily the mapping itself;the mapping is not employed transparently to yieldanother specific meaning.Consider describing the starting of a businessin terms of gardening.
"You must plant the seedin fertile soil, give it plenty of water..." Such al-legorical metaphors are not T-M because they donot have a referent from the tenor domain whichremains unchanged by the metaphor (e.g., "sharesof stock").
The scope of this work is further con-strained to metaphors that convey a verb=phrasemeaning.
The bounds of T-M metaphors that pri-marily convey other meanings, uch as reference,are less clear.So, transparently-motivated metaphors: 1)Are based on universal groundings that are of-ten linked to bodily experience; 2) Convey a mes-sage (via the mapping) that is something morethan the mapping; 3) Are subtle in the way thatthey do not draw attention to themselves as bla-tant metaphors.
In fact, at first glance, thesemetaphors are often not recognized as non-literal;4) Retain a referent from the tenor domain.3 Uses  o f  MetaphorMetaphor is not merely a device that adds aflowery flavor to text.
Rather, metaphor can beharnessed to achieve textual goals that may be dif-ficult to achieve with literal statements.
A simplegoal that metaphor can achieve is that of beingconcise.
More complex uses are explained below.3.1 Conceptual  FitWe noted that the building blocks of thoughtmay lead us to speak metaphorically.
It is rea-sonable to conclude that metaphors based on suchbuilding blocks are easier to understand becausethey reflect human conceptualizations.Two observations are salient.
People naturallytend to describe things in a more concrete manner,even when the issue at hand is rather abstract.Such behavior generally ields more natural andunderstandable t xt.
This explains why expres-sions like, "grasping an idea" are common.
Second,it is natural to talk about hings in the light of ba-sic building blocks of thought hat are commonlyshared by a community.
Therefore, describing astock transaction as putting a token in a containermay be more intuitive to the audience.3.2 Focus of  A t tent ionThe traditional view of focus of attention isthat it is something that is accomplished syntacti-cally, such as by making the desired focus the sub-ject of the sentence (as can be done with a passiveconstruction).
However, further inspection revealsthat there is a relationship between semantic typesand level of focus.Jones and McCoy (1992) show evidence forthe intuitive proposition that the semantic typesof words/concepts affect the perceived level of fo-cus attributed to those words/concepts.
We intro-duce a simple focus hierarchy to model the effectsof semantic types on focus levels.
Items at the topof the focus hierarchy, because of their semanticqualities, are more likely to be focused upon thanthose below.
Generally, concepts which are veryconcrete and volitional are toward the top whilemore amorphous and abstract hings are below.Given the focus hierarchy which explains in-herent focus level according to the semantic typeof an object, it is interesting to note that oneeffect of metaphorical statements can be to al-ter the perceived semantic type of an object(and therefore potentially raise the perceived focuslevel).
Consider the metaphorical statement "AI isno stranger to object-oriented paradigms" (Elliot1991).
Notice that the phrase "is no stranger" hasthe effect of conceptually personifying the objectsinvolved (i.e., AI and object-oriented paradigms)since it is a phrase that, literally, can only beused with humans (or perhaps other animate ob-jects).
Compare the perceived focus level with thatin a more literal rendition of the sentence suchas: "AI and object-oriented paradigms have previ-ously been incorporated together.
"In the traditional view of focus of attention aword is treated as having a static semantics.
How-ever metaphor can make the semantic type of ob-jects more flexible.
By using a verb that only ap-plies to humans, as above, the objects are pushedup the focus hierarchy towards the position thathumans occupy.3.3 Perspect iveWhile the notion of perspective on an item isrelated to focus, they are distinct.
Rather thanconcentrating on which object is focused on, per-spective has to do with how an object is viewed.A given perspective on an item causes certain as-pects of that item to be highlighted (and not oth-ers) (McCoy 1989).322Consider a couple with young children attend-ing a party with all of their children's parapher-nalia in tow.
One tells the other "It is timefor us to pull up stakes."
Here, the leaving ismetaphorically described via the camping domain,where leaving is an involved process.
This use ofmetaphor has highlighted or put a particular per-spective on the leaving that emphasizes the workinvolved.4 Approach to a Solut ionT-M metaphors are a promising sub-class ofmetaphors in which to work, because they carryspecial requirements that restrict the possiblesearch space from which they can be generated.We have begun preliminary work to specify thebasic structures and methodologies that togethercan generate good metaphors.
Input to the sys-tem has two parts.
The first part is the literalstatement of what should be expressed, in a for-mal form.
For example, describe the leave role ofthe object party.
The second part of the input tothe system is a specification of the goal that themetaphor is to achieve.4.1 General  ApproachThe idea behind the approach is to identify re-lated domains of the tenor domain that are appro-priate as metaphorical domains.
Both the tenorand metaphorical domains hare some roles thatare defined by their common ancestor in the "is-a" hierarchy.
Specifically, we require that theyshare the role that is the focus of the metaphor(that aspect of an action which is being referredto metaphorically).
We can identify an ancestorof the tenor domain from which the tenor domaininherits the role in question.
The metaphorical do-main also will share this ancestor.In addition to sharing the common ancestor,a reasonable metaphorical domain must have thefollowing qualities:?
Be universal, or considered very familiar(with respect o the user model}.
If the audi-ence is ignorant of the metaphorical domain,there is little hope of the expression's success.?
Have the potential to achieve additional goals(e.g., focus).?
Have specialized iexical expressions in themetaphorical domain for the role being de-scribed.
This is necessary because the lexi-cal expression used to describe the role is theonly information that conveys the mapping.This restriction would not apply to non-literalexpressions that explicitly state the mapping.Without the specialized lexical expression, aT-M metaphor cannot be generated.These specifications constrain what potentialmetaphorical domains will be considered.
By lim-iting the candidate domains, the space and searchtime requirements will be held down.Consider how we can generate the metaphor-ical expression conveying "leave the party," whileat the same time emphasizing the effort that ittakes to leave (as in section 3.3).
A party can bedescribed, via "is-a" links of the abstraction hi-erarchy, as a human process.
Such a process canhave a termination.
For partying, leaving and say-ing goodbye to everyone can be considered part ofthe termination of this process.After ascending the "is-a" hierarchy to theproper level of abstraction, where the key role (ter-mination) is specified, we can search for a can-didate metaphorical domain that shares this an-cestor.
There are several possible metaphoricaldomains that meet this criteria.
To narrow thischoice several considerations come into play.One of these considerations is whether the pos-sible metaphorical domains have specialized ex-pressions available for the role that the metaphorinvolves (termination).
Two possible metaphoricaldomains that meet this criteria are camping, with"pulling up stakes," and electrical equipment, with"pull the plug.
"Both domains are potential candidates.
How-ever, now the constraints imposed by the goal ofthe metaphor must be considered: emphasize thecomplexity of the termination.
Will an allusion tocamping rhetorically make leaving the party ap-pear more involved?
Here we must appeal to moredetailed knowledge about the termination of thecamping experience.
In this case we find that thetermination ofa camping experience is not trivial,it requires a moderate amount of work (comparedto the party and electrical domains).
Therefore thecamping domain may be chosen.
Other metaphor-ical goals (e.g., focus) will cause different reasoningto be done in this final stage.4.2 Specific Conceptual  MappingsThe previous approach may work well for someT-M metaphors, but notice there is a severe re-striction on the relationship between the tenor andmetaphorical domains - they must have the roleinvolved in the expression in common.
Here wediscuss how the previous method can benefit fromadditional information, which can link two verydifferent domains.Recall from section 3.1 that conceptual fitis a motivation for metaphor generation.
Themethod introduced here helps implement the prin-ciple that it is useful to describe things in terms ofshared conceptual roots.
If a system is to generatemetaphors that follow from conceptual roots, thoseroots must be represented in the system.
We willneed metaphorical domain selection rules and re-lated mapping information to capture the concep-tual roots by reflecting such common metaphoricalbehaviors as those pointed to in Lakoff and John-son's work (Lakoffand Johnson 1980, Lakoff 1987).Selection rules will encode such familiar patternsas "describe progress in terms of a vehicle movingtoward a goal" and "describe securities in terms ofcontainers for money.
"Consider describing the progress with a pub-lication or career, with the intention of being as323Table 1: Progress in terms of a moving vehicleTenor Domain Met.
Domainprogress ....... forwardnegative progress ....... backwardno progress ....... stillunsatisfactory progress ....... slowintuitive as possible (conceptual fit).
A rule en-coding the notion "describe progress in terms of avehicle moving toward a goal" would be triggered.Closely attached to this rule is information abouthow the mapping from tenor domain to metaphor-ical domain should relate.
Such information wouldinclude the mappings in Table 1.Notice that these expressions for progress inthe domain of physical motion are natural andprobably-more frequent han the "literal" formsfound on the left side of Table 1.
This may be be-cause people understand progress in terms of mo-tion.
In this way metaphor generation can yield amore conceptually appropriate xpression, whichmay actually be easier to understand than its lit-eral counterpart.There is potential for abstracting the informa-tion in the table.
Note that the moving object hassome starting point, some goal and some points onits path.
With time involved, it also has speed.With a sophisticated model of this behavior in themetaphorical domain available, the four mappingsin Table 1 could be derived.
Interestingly, a moregeneral structure matched with reasoning in themetaphorical domains could derive other expres-sions.
With the knowledge that energy is requiredto move objects, and given that a prototypicalmoving object is a car that runs on gas, we couldhope to generate "My career is running out of gas"from general knowledge and principles.REFERENCESMax Black (1962).
Models and Metaphors.
CornellUniversity Press, Ithica, NY.Lance B. Elliot (1991).
The bandwagon blues.
AIExpert, 6(5):11-13.Mark Johnson (1987).
The Body in the Mind: TheBodily Basis of Reason and Imagination.
Uni-versity of Chicago press, Chicago, IL.Mark A. Jones and Kathleen F. McCoy (1992).Transparently-Motivated M taphor Generation.In R. Dale, E. Hovy, D. Rosner and O.
Stock,eds., Aspects of Automated Natural LanguageGeneration: The 6th International Workshopon Natural Language Generation Proceedings,Trento, Italy.
231-246.George Lakoff (1987).
Women, Fire and Danger-ous Things What Categories Reveal About theMind.
University of Chicago Press, Chicago, IL.George Lakoff and Mark Johnson (1980).Metaphors we live by.
University of ChicagoPress, Chicago, IL.Kathleen F. McCoy (1989).
Generating contextsensitive responses to object-related misconcep-tions.
Artificial Intelligence, 41:157-195.
