SOME PROBLEMATIC CASES OF VP ELLIPSISDaniel  HardtDepar tment  of Computer  and Informat ion ScienceUniversity of PennsylvaniaPhi ladelphia,  PA 19104Internet:  hardt~l inc .c i s .upenn.eduINTRODUCTIONIt has been widely assumed that VP ellipsis is gov-erned by an identity condition: the elided VP is in-terpreted as an identical copy of another expressionin surrounding discourse.
For example, Sag (76)imposes an identity condition on Logical Form rep-resentations of VP's.
A basic feature of this ac-count is the requirement that a syntactic VP beavailable as the antecedent.
This requirement is re-flected in most subsequent accounts as well.
In thispaper I examine three cases of VP ellipsis in whichthe antecedent cannot be identified with any VP.These cases, which are illustrated using naturally-occurring examples, present a fundamental problemfor any of the standard approaches.
I will arguethat they receive a natural treatment in the systemI have developed, in which VP ellipsis is treated bystoring VP meanings in a discourse model.I will address the following three problems:?
Combined Antecedents: The antecedent may be acombination of more than one previous property.?
Passive Antecedents: the antecedent in a passiveclause may not be associated with any VP, but,rather, the property associated with the activecounterpart of that clause.?
NP  Antecedents: the antecedent may be a prop-erty associated with an NP.In what follows, I sketch my general approachto VP ellipsis, after which I show how each of theabove phenomena can be treated in this approach.BACKGROUNDVP ellipsis, I suggest, is to be explained along thelines of familiar accounts of pronominal anaphora(e.g., Kamp 80, Heim 81).
A discourse model isposited, containing various emantic objects, includ-ing (among other things) entities and propertiesthat have been evoked in preceding discourse.
Typ-ically, entities are evoked by NP's, and propertiesby VP's.
The interpretation f a pronoun involves aselection among the entities tored in the discoursemodel.
Similarly, the interpretation of an ellipticalVP involves a selection among the properties stored276in the discourse model.
1 I have described an imple-mentation along these lines in Hardt 91, based onsome extensions to the Incremental InterpretationSystem (Pereira and Pollack 91).There are two rules governing VP ellipsis: oneallowing the introduction of properties into the dis-course model, and another allowing the recovery ofproperties from the discourse model.These two rules are given below.
In general, Iassume the form of grammar in Pereira and Pollack91, in which all semantic rules take the input andoutput discourse models as arguments.
That is, allsemantic rules define relations on discourse models,or "file change potentials", in Heim's terms.The (simplified) rule for recovering a propertyfrom the discourse model is:AUX =~ Pwhere P e DMi,,.That is, an auxiliary verb is replaced by someproperty P stored in the input discourse model.Secondly, properties are introduced into the dis-course model by the following rule:Upon encountering a property-denoting seman-tic object of the form:P(-, al)that is, a predicate with the first argument slotempty, we have:DMout = DMin U {P(-, at)}This indicates that the property is added to theoutput discourse model.
Typically, the property-denoting expression is associated with a VP, al-though other types of expressions can also introduceproperties into the discourse model.I have argued elsewhere (Hardt 91, 91a) thatsuch a system has certain important advantages overalternative approaches, uch as those of Sag (76)and Williams (77).
21To be precise, it is not properties that are stored asVPE antecedents, but relations involving an input andoutput discourse context as well as a property.2The DRT-based account of Klein (87) essentially du-In what follows, I will briefly examine the phe-nomena listed above, which present fundamentalproblems for all accounts of VP ellipsis of whichI am aware a.
For each problem, I will suggest thatthe current approach provides a solution.COMBINED ANTECEDENTSThere are cases of VP ellipsis in which the an-tecedent is combined from two or more separateVP's.
This presents a problem for most accounts ofVP ellipsis, since there is no syntactic object con-sisting of the combination of two separate VP's.
Ifantecedents are stored in the discourse model, as Iam suggesting, this is not surprising.
For example,it is well known that combinations ofentities can be-come the antecedent for a plural pronoun.
Considerthe following example:After the symmetry between left-handedparticles and right-handed anti- particles wasbroken by the kaons in the 1960s, a new symme-try was introduced which everybody swears isunbreakable.
This is between left-handed par-ticles moving forwards in time, and right-handed anti-particles moving backwards int ime (none do, in any practical sense, but thatdoes not worry theorists too much).From: The Economist, ~ August 1990, p.69.Bonnie Webber, p.c.The meaning of the elided VP ("none do") is,I take it, "none do move forwards or move back-.
wards in time".
So the antecedent must consists of acombination ofproperties associated with two VP's:"moving forwards in time" and "moving backwardsin time".Such an example indicates the necessity for arule allowing the set of properties in the discoursemodel to be expanded, as follows:{P...Q...} :~ {P...Q...\[P OP Q\]}That is, if the discourse model contains twoproperties P and Q, it may also contain the propertyresulting from a combination of P and Q by someoperator (I assume that the operators include ANDand OR).Another example is the following:So I say to the conspiracy fans: leave himalone.
Leave us alone.
But they won't.From: The Welcomat, 5 Feb 92, p.25Here the meaning of the elliptical VP is: "theywon't leave him alone or leave us alone".plicates the Sag/Williams approach in DRT.
Of partic-ulax relevance here is Klein's requirement that the an-tecedent be a DRT-representation f a syntactic VP.3The recent account of Dadrymple, Shieber andPereira (91) does treat the "Passive Antecedent" prob-lem.
However, no treatment of the "Combined An-tecedent" or "NP Antecedent" problems i  given.277This phenomenon has been noted in the liter-ature, in particular by Webber (?8), in which thefollowing examples were given:I can walk, and I can chew gum.
Gerrycan too, but not at the same time.Wendy is eager to sail around the worldand Bruce is eager to climb KiHmanjaro, butneither of them can because money is too tight.By the rule given above, this example could begiven the interpretation "neither of them can sailaround the world or climb Kilimanjaro".It is clear that the combining operation ishighlyconstrained.
In all the examples mentioned, eitherP and Q have the same subject, or the subject ofthe elliptical VP refers to the two subjects of P andQ.
In future work, I will attempt o formulate con-straints on this operation.PASS IVE  ANTECEDENTSThe next problem is illustrated by the followingexample, cited by Dalrymple, Shieber and Pereira(91):A lot of this material can be presented in afairly informal and accessible fashion, and oftenI do.From: Noam Chow_sky on the Generative En-terprise, Foris Publications, Dordrecht.
1982.The antecedent for the elliptical VP is "presenta lot of this material in a fairly informal and acces-sible fashion".
This is not associated with a VP, al-though the active counterpart ofthe sentence wouldcontain such a VP.
This is not surprising from a se-mantic point of view, since it is traditionally heldthat a 'passive transformation' preserves emanticequivalence.Another example of this is following:Business has to be developed and de-fended differently than we have in the past.From: NPR interview, 24 May 91The most straightforward treatment of suchphenomena in the current framework is to assumethat the syntactic derivation of a passive antecedentsuch as "this material can be presented" corre-sponds to a semantic objectpresent(_, this material)More generally, for a syntactic expressionSUBJ be VP+enthe corresponding semantic object isVP'(-, SUB:V)That is, the denotation of the "surface subject"becomes the second argument of the VP-denotation.This semantic object, then, satisfies the conditionon the rule for introducing properties given above.Thus, under such a treatment of the passive, theseexamples are accommodated in the present systemwithout further stipulations.NP ANTECEDENTSIn many casgs~ the antecedent property is intro-duced by a NP rather than a VP.
This would bedifficult to explain for a syntactic or logical formtheory.
From a semantic point of view, it is not sur-prising, since many NP's contain a common nounwhich is standardly analyzed semantically as denot-ing a property.
Consider the following (naturallyoccurring) example:We should suggest o her that she officiallyappoint us as a committee and invite fac-u l ty  par t ic ipat ion/ input .
They won't, ofcourse,...From: email message.
(Bonnie Webber, p.c.
)In this example, the meaning of the elided VPis '%hey won't participate".
The source is the NP"faculty participation".Another example is the following:\[Many Chicago-area cabdrivers\] say theirbusiness is foundering because the riders theydepend on - business people, downtown work-ers and the elderly - are opting for the bus andthe elevated train, or are on the unemploymentline.
Meanwhile, they sense a drop in visitorsto the city.
Those who do, they say, are nottaking cabs.From: Chicago Tribune front page, ~/6/92.Gregory Ward, p.c.Here, the meaning of the elided VP is %hosewho do visit", where the source is the NP "visitors".In the current framework, such examples couldbe treated as follows.
Assume, following Chierchia(84), that there is a class of nouns that are semanti-cally correlated with properties.
For any such noun,the associated property can be added to the dis-course model, just as is done for verbs.CONCLUSIONSThe cases investigated constitute strong evidencethat VP ellipsis must be explained at a seman-tic/discourse l vel.
I have argued that the examplescan be dealt with in the system I have developed.In future work, I will formulate constraints on theoperations described here.ACKNOWLEDGEMENTSThanks to Aravind Joshi, Shalom Lappin, GregoryWard, and Bonnie Webber.
This work was sup-ported by the following grants: ARO DAAL 03-89-C-0031, DARPA N00014-90-J-1863, NSF IRI 90-16592, and Ben Franklin 91S.3078C-1.
278REFERENCESGennaro Chierchia.
Formal Semantics and theGrammar of Predication.
Linguistic Inquiry, Vol.16, no.
3.
Summer 1984.Mary Dalrymple, Stuart Shieber and FernandoPereira.
Ellipsis and Higher-Order Unification.
Lin-guistics and Philosophy.
Vol.
14, no.
4, August1991.Daniel Hardt.
A Discourse Model Account ofVP Ellipsis.
Proceedings AAAI  Symposium on Dis-course Structure in Natural Language Understand-ing and Generation.
Asilomar, CA., November1991.Daniel Hardt.
Towards a Discourse Model Ac-count of VP Ellipsis.
Proceedings ESCOL 1991.Baltimore, MD.Irene Heim.
The Semantics of Definite and In-definite Noun Phrases.
Ph.D. thesis, University ofMassachusetts-Amherst.
1981.Hans Kamp.
A Theory of Truth and SemanticRepresentation.
In Groenendijk, J Janssen, T.M.V.and Stokhof, M.
(eds.)
Formal Methods in the Studyof Language, Volume 136, pp.
277-322.
1980.Ewan Klein.
VP Ellipsis in DR Theory.
InJ.
Groenendijk, D. de Jongh and M. Stokhof, eds.Studies in Discourse Representation Theory and theTheory of Generalized Quantifiers, Foris Publica-tions.
Dordrecht, The Netherlands.
1987.Fernando Pereira and Martha Pollack.
Incre-mental Interpretation.
Artificial Intelligence.
Vol.50.
no.
1, pp.
37-82.
June 1991.Ivan A.
Sag.
Deletion and Logical Form.
Ph.D.thesis, MIT.
1976.Bonnie Lynn Webber.
A Formal Approach toDiscourse Anaphora.
Ph.D. thesis, Harvard Univer-sity.
1978.Edwin Williams.
Discourse and Logical Form.Linguistic Inquiry, 8(1):101-139.
1977.
