THE EXPRESSION OF LOCAL RHETORICAL RELATIONS ININSTRUCTIONAL TEXT*Keith Vander LindenDepar tment  of Computer  ScienceUnivers i ty of ColoradoBoulder ,  CO 80309-0430Internet :  l inden@cs.colorado.eduINTRODUCTIONGiven the prevalence of the use of rhetorical rela-tions in the generation of text (Itovy, 1989; Mooreand Paris, 1988; Scott and Souza, 1990), it issurprising how little work has actually been doneon the grammatical realization of these relations.Most systems, based on Mann and Thompson'sformulation ofRhetorical Structure Theory (Mannand Thompson, 1988), have adopted simplified so-lutions to their expression.
If, for example, an ac-tion, X, and a purpose for that action, Y, must beexpressed, a standard form such as "Do X in or-der to Y" will be generated.
In reality, the purposerelation can be and is expressed in a myriad of dif-ferent ways depending upon numerous functionalconsiderations.
Consider the following examples:( la)  Follow the steps in the illustration below,for desk installation.
(code 1)( lb)  To install the phone on a desk, follow thesteps in the illustration below.
( le) Follow the steps in the illustration below,for installing the phone on a desk.
( ld )  For the desk, follow the steps in theillustration below.These examples of purpose expressions illus-trate two issues of choice at the rhetorical level.First, the purpose clauses/phrases can occur ei-ther before or after the actions which they moti-vate.
Second, there are four grammatical forms tochoose from (all found in our corpus).
In (la), wesee a "for" prepositional phrase with a nominaliza-tion ("installation") asthe complement, in (lb), a"to" infinitive form (tnf), in (lc), a "for" preposi-tion with a gerund phrase as a complement, and*This work was supported in part by NSF GrantIRI-9109859.1 My convention will be to add a reference to the endof all examples that have come from our corpus, indi-cating which manual they came from.
(code) and (exc)will stand for examples from the Code-a-Phone andExcursion manuals respectively (Code-a-phone, 1989;Excursion, 1989).
All other examples are contrived.318in (ld), a "for" preposition with a simple objectas the complement.
Although all these forms aregrammatical nd communicate he same basic in-formation, the form in (la) was used in the corpus.I am interested in the functional reasons for thischoice.Another aspect of this analysis to notice isthat, contrary to the way rhetorical structure the-ory has been used in the past, I have allowedphrases, as well as clauses, to enter into rhetor-ical relations.
This enables me to address the useof phrases, such as those in (la), (lc), and (ld),which hold rhetorical relations with other spans oftext.The proper treatment of alternations such asthese is crucial in the generation ofunderstandabletext.
In the following sections, I will discuss amethodology for identifying such alternations andinclude samples of those I have found in a corpusof instructional text.
I will then discuss how toformalize and implement them.IDENTIFY INGALTERNATIONSI identified alternations by studying the linguisticforms taken on by various rhetorical relations in acorpus of instructional text.
The corpus, currentlyaround 1700 words of procedural text from twocordless telephone manuals, was large enough toexpose consistent patterns of instructional writing.I plan to expand the corpus, but at this point, theextent o which my observations are valid for othertypes of instructions i unclear.To manage this corpus, a text database sys-tem was developed which employs three inter-connected tables: the clause table, which repre-sents all the relevant information concerning eachclause (tense, aspect, etc.
), the argument table,which represents all the relevant information con-cerning each argument to each clause (subjects,objects, etc.
), and the rhetorical relation table,which represents all the rhetorical relations be-tween text spans using Mann and Thompson's for-malism.
I used this tool to retrieve all the clausesand phrases in the corpus that encode a particularlocal rhetorical relation.
I then hypothesized func-tional reasons for alternations in form and testedthem with the data.
I considered a hypothesissuccessful if it correctly predicted the form of ahigh percentage of the examples in the corpus andwas based on a functional distinction that couldbe derived from the generation environment 2.I have analyzed a number of local rhetoricalrelations and have identified regularities in theirexpression.
We will now look at some representa-tive examples of these alternations which illustratethe various contextual factors that affect the formof expression of rhetorical relations.
A full anal-ysis of these examples and a presentation of thestatistical evidence for each result can be found inVander Linden (1992a).PURPOSESOne important factor in the choice of form is theavailability of the lexicogrammatical tools fromwhich to build the various forms.
The purpose re-lation, for example, is expressed whenever possibleas a "for" prepositional phrase with a nominaliza-tion as the complement.
This can only be done,however, if a nominalization exists for the actionbeing expressed.
Consider the following examplesfrom the corpus:(2a) Follow the steps in the illustration below,for desk installation.
(code)(2b) End the second call, and tap FLASH toreturn to the first call (code)(2e) The OFF position is primarily used forcharging the batteries.
(code)Example (2a) is a typical purpose clausestated as a "for" prepositional phrase.
Example(2b) would have been expressed as a prepositionalphrase had a nominalization for "return" beenavailable.
Because of this lexicogrammatical gapin English, a "to" infinitive form is used.
Thereare reasons that a nominalization will not be usedeven if it exists, one of which is shown in (2e).Here, the action is not the only action requiredto accomplish the purpose, so an "-ing" gerund isused.
This preference for the use of less prominentgrammatical forms (in this case, phrases rather2In the process of hypothesis generation, I havefrequently made informal psycholinguistic tests suchas judging how "natural" alternate forms seem in thecontext in which a particular form was used, and havegone so far as to document this process in more com-plete discussions of this work (Vander Linden et al,1992a), but these tests do not constitute the basis ofmy criteria for a successful hypothesis.than clauses) marks the purposes as less impor-tant than the actions themselves and is commonin instructions and elsewhere (Cumming, 1991).PRECONDIT IONSAnother issue that affects form is the textual con-text.
Preconditions, for example, change form de-pending upon whether or not the action the pre-condition refers to has been previously discussed.Consider the following examples:(3a) When you hear dial tone, dial the numberon the Dialpad \[4\].
(code)(3b) When the 7010 is installed and the batteryhas charged for twelve hours, move theOFF/STBY/TALK \[8\] switch to STBY.
(code)Preconditions typically are expressed as in(3a), in present tense as material actions.
If,however, they are repeat mentions of actions pre-scribed earlier in the text, as is the case in (3b),they are expressed in present ense as conditionsthat exist upon completion of the action.
I callthis the terminating condition form.
In this case,the use of this form marks the fact that the readersdon't have to redo the action.RESULTSObviously, the content of process being describedaffects the form of expression.
Consider the fol-lowing examples:(4a) When the 7010 is installed and the batteryhas charged for twelve hours, move theOFF /STBY/TALK \[8\] switch to STBY.
The7010 is now ready to use.
(code)(4b) 3.
Place the handset in the base.
TheBATTERY CHARGE INDICATOR will light.
(exc)Here, the agent that performs the action de-termines, in part, the form of the expression.
In(4a), the action is being performed by the readerwhich leads to the use of a present ense, relationalclause.
In (4b), on the other hand, the action isperformed by the device itself which leads to theuse of a future tense, action clause.
This use of fu-ture tense reflects the fact that the action is some-thing that the reader isn't expected to perform.CLAUSE COMBIN INGUser modeling factors affect the expression of in-structions, including the way clauses are com-bined.
In the following examples we see actionsbeing combined and ordered in different ways:(5a) Remove the handset from the base and layit on its side.
(exc)319(5b) Listen for dial tone, then make your nextcall (code)(5c) Return the OFF/STBY/TALK switch toSTBY after your call.
(code)Two sequential ctions are typically expressedas separate clauses conjoined with "and" as in(5a), or, if they could possibly be performed si-multaneously, with "then" as in (5b).
If, on theother hand, one of the actions is considered obvi-ous to the reader, it will be rhetorically demotedas in (5c), that is stated in precondition form asa phrase following the next action.
The manualwriter, in this example, is emphasizing the actionspeculiar to the cordless phone and paying rela-tively little attention to the general skills involvedin using a standard telephone, of which making acall is one.IMPLEMENTINGALTERNATIONSThis analysis of local rhetorical relations has re-sulted in a set of interrelated alternations, suchas those just discussed, which I have formalized interms of system networks from systemic-functionalgrammar (Halliday, 1976) 3.I am currently implementing these networksas an extension to the Penman text generation ar-chitecture (Mann, 1985), using the existing Pen-man system network tools.
My system, calledIMAGENE, takes a non-linguistic process tructuresuch as that produced by a typical planner anduses the networks just discussed to determine theform of the rhetorical relations based on functionalfactors.
It then uses the existing Penman etworksfor lower level clause'generation.IMAGENE starts by building a structure basedon the actions in the process tructure that are tobe expressed and then passes over it a number oftimes making changes as dictated by the systemnetworks for rhetorical structure.
These changes,including various rhetorical demotions, markingnodes with their appropriate forms, ordering ofclauses/phrases, and clause combining, are im-plemented as systemic-type r alization statementsfor text.
IMAGENE finally traverses the completedstructure, calling Penman once for each group ofnodes that constitute a sentence.
A detailed dis-cussion of this design can be found in Vander Lin-den (1992b).
IMAGENE is capable, consequently,of producing instructional text that conforms toa formal, corpus-based notion of how realistic in-structional text is constructed.3System networks are decision structures in theform of directed acyclic graphs, where each decisionpoint represents a system that addresses one of  thealternations.320REFERENCESCode-a-phone (1989).
Code-A-Phone Owner'sGuide.
Code-A-Phone Corporation, P.O.
Box5678, Portland, OR 97228.Cumming, Susanna (1991).
Nominalization inEnglish and the organization of grammars.In Proceedings of the IJCAI-91 Workshop onDecision Making Throughout he GenerationProcess, August 24-25, Darling Harbor, Syd-ney, Australia.Excursion (1989).
Excursion 8100.
NorthwesternBell Phones, A USWest Company.Halliday, M. A. K. (1976).
System and Function inLanguage.
Oxford University Press, London.Ed.
G. R. Kress.Hovy, Eduard H. (1989).
Approaches to theplanning of coherent ext.
Technical ReportISI\]RR-89-245, USC Information Sciences In-stitute.Mann, William C. (1985).
An introduction tothe Nigel text generation grammar.
In Ben-son, James D., Freedle, Roy O., and Greaves,William S., editors, Systemic Perspectives onDiscourse, volume 1, pages 84-95.
Ablex.Mann, William C. and Thompson, Sandra A.(1988).
Rhetorical structure theory: A the-ory of text organization.
In Polanyi, Livia,editor, The Structure of Discourse.
Ablex.Moore, Johanna D. and Paris, Cdcile L. (1988).Constructing coherent ext using rhetoricalrelations.
Submitted to the Tenth AnnualConference of the Cognitive Science Society,August 17-19, Montreal, Quebec.Scott, Donia R. and Souza, Clarisse Sieckenius de(1990).
Getting the message across in RST-based text generation.
In Dale, Robert, Mel-lish, Chris, and Zock, Michael, editors, Cur-rent Research in Natural Language Genera-lion, chapter 3.
Academic Press.Vander Linden, Keith, Cumming, Susanna, andMartin, James (1992a).
The expression of lo-cal rhetorical relations in instructional text.Technical Report CU-CS-585-92, the Univer-sity of Colorado.Vander Linden, Keith, Cumming, Susanna, andMartin, James (1992b).
Using system net-works to build rhetorical structures.
In Dale,R., Hovy, E., RSesner, D., and Stock, O., edi-tors, Aspects of Automated Natural LanguageGeneration.
Springer Verlag.
