AN ALGORITHM FOR VP ELLIPSISDaniel HardtDepartment of Computer and Information ScienceUniversity of PennsylvaniaPhiladelphia, PA 19104Internet: hardt @linc.cis.upenn.eduABSTRACTAn algorithm is proposed to determine an-tecedents for VP ellipsis.
The algorithm elim-inates impossible antecedents, and then im-poses a preference ordering on possible an-tecedents.
The algorithm performs with 94%accuracy on a set of 304 examples of VP el-lipsis collected from the Brown Corpus.
Theproblem of determining antecedents for VP el-lipsis has received little attention in the litera-ture, and it is shown that the current proposalis a significant improvement over alternativeapproaches.INTRODUCTIONTo understand an elliptical expression it is nec-essary to recover the missing material from sur-rounding context.
This can be divided into twosubproblems: first, it is necessary to determine theantecedent expression.
Second, a method of recon-structing the antecedent expression at the ellipsissite is required.
Most of the literature on ellipsishas concerned itself with the second problem.
Inthis paper, I propose a solution for the first prob-lem, that of determining the antecedent.
I focuson the case of VP ellipsis.VP ellipsis is defined by the presence of anauxiliary verb, but no VP, as in the followingexample 1:(1) a.
It might have rained, any time;b. only - it did not.To interpret he elliptical VP "did not", theantecedent must be determined: in this case,"rained" is the only possibility.The input to the algorithm is an elliptical VPand a list of VP's occurring in proximity to the el-liptical VP.
The algorithm eliminates certain VP'sIAll examples are taken from the Brown Corpusunless otherwise noted.9that are impossible antecedents.
Then it assignspreference l vels to the remaining VP's, based onsyntactic onfigurations as well as other factors.Any VP's with the same preference level are or-dered in terms of proximity to the elliptical VP.The antecedent is the VP with the highest prefer-ence level.In what follows, I begin with the overall struc-ture of the algorithm.
Next the subparts of thealgorithm are described, consisting of the elimina-tion of impossible antecedents, and the determina-tion of a preference ordering based on clausal rela-tionships and subject coreference.
I then presentthe results of testing the algorithm on 304 exam-ples of VP ellipsis collected from the Brown Cor-pus.
Finally, I examine other approaches to thisproblem in the literature.THE ALGORITHMThe input to the algorithm is an ellipticalVP(VPE), and VPlist, a list of VP's occurring inthe current sentence, and those occurring in thetwo immediately preceding sentences.
In addition,it is assumed that the parse trees of these sentencesare available as global variables, and that NP's inthese parse trees have been assigned indices to in-dicate coreference and quantifier binding.The antecedent selection function is:A-Select(VPlist,VPE)VPlist := remove-impossible(VPl ist,VPE)VPlist := assign-levels(VPlist,VPE)antecedent.
:= select-highest(VPlist,VPE)First, impossible antecedents are removedfrom the VPlist.
Then, the remaining items inVPlist are assigned preference l vels, and the itemwith the highest preference l vel is selected as theantecedent.
If there is more than one item withthe same preference level, the item closest to theVPE, scanning left from the VPE, is selected.The definition of the function remove-imposs ib le  is as follows:remove-impossible(VPlist,VPE)For all v in VPlistif ACD(v,VPE) orBE-DO-conflict(v,VPE)then remove(v, VPlist)There are two types of impossible antecedents:the first involves certain antecedent-containmentstructures, and the second involves cases in whichthe antecedent contains a BE-form and the targetcontains a DO-form.
These are described in detailbelow.Next, preference l vels are assigned to remain-ing items in VPlist by the assign- levels  function.
(All items on VPlist are initialized with a level of0.
)assign-levels (VPlist, VPE)For all v in VPlistif related-clause(v,VPE) thenv.level := v.level + 1if coref-subj (v,VPE) thenv.level := v.level + iAn antecedent is preferred if there is a clausalrelationship between its clause and the VPEclause, or if the antecedent and the VPE havecoreferential subjects.
The determination of thesepreferences i  described in detail below.Finally, the se lec t -h ighest  function merelyselects the item on VPlist with the highest prefer-ence level.
If there is more than one item with thehighest preference level, the item nearest o theVPE (scanning left) is selected.IMPOSSIBLE  ANTECEDENTSThis section concerns the removal of impossibleantecedents from VPlist.
There are two cases inwhich a given VP is not a possible antecedent.The first deals with antecedent-containment, thesecond, with conflicts between BE-forms and DO-forms.ANTECEDENT CONTAINMENTThere are cases of VP ellipsis in which the VPE iscontained within the antecedent VP:IV \[... VPE ...\]\]vPSuch cases are tradition-ally termed antecedent-contained d letion (ACD).They are highly constrained, although the proper10formulation of the relevant constraint remains con-troversial.
It was claimed by May (1985) and oth-ers that ACD is only possible if a quantifier ispresent.
May argues that this explains the fol-lowing contrast:(2) a. Dulles suspected everyone who Angeltondid.b.
* Dulles suspected Philby, who Angeltondid.However, it has been subsequently noted (cf.Fiengo and May 1991) that such structures do notrequire the presence of a quantifier, as shown bythe following examples:(3) a. Dulles suspected Philby, who Angeltondid too.b.
Dulles suspected Philby, who Angeltondidn't.Thus the algorithm will allow cases of ACD inwhich the target is dominated by an NP which isan argument of the antecedent verb.
It will notallow cases in which the target is dominated bya sentential complement of the antecedent verb,such as the following:(4) That still leaves you a lot of latitude.
AndI suppose it did.Here, "suppose" is not a possible antecedentfor the elliptical VP.
In general, configurations ofthe following form are ruled out:IV \[... VPE .--\]s-..\]vPBE/DO CONFL ICTSThe auxiliary verb contributes various teatures tothe complete verb phrase, including tense, aspect,and polarity.
There is no requirement that thesefeatures match in antecedent and elliptical VP.However, certain conflicts do not appear to be pos-sible.
In general, it is not possible to have a DO-form as the elliptical VP, with an overt BE-form inthe antecedent.
Consider the following example:(5) Nor can anyone be certain that Prokofiefwould have done better, or even as well,under different circumstances.
His fellow-countryman, Igor Stravinsky, certainlydid not.In this example, there are two elements on theVP list: "be certain...", and "do better".
The tar-get "did not" rules out "be certain" as a possibleantecedent, allowing only the reading "Stravinskydid not do better".
If the elliptical VP is changedfrom "did not" to "was not", the situation is re-versed; the only possible reading is then "Stravin-sky was not certain that Prokofief would have donebetter...".A related conflict to be ruled out is that of ac-tive/passive conflicts.
A passive antecedent is notpossible if the VPE is a DO-form.
For example:(6) Jubal did not hear of Digby's disappear-ance when it was announced, and, whenhe did, while he had a fleeting suspicion,he dismissed it;In this example, "was announced" is not apossible antecedent for the VPE "did".One possible exception to this rule involvesprogressive antecedents, which, although they con-tain a BE-form, may be consistent with a DO-form target.
The following (constructed) exampleseems marginally acceptable:(7) Tom was cleaning his room today.
Harrydid yesterday.Thus a BE-form together with a progressivedoes not conflict with a DO-form.PREFERENCE LEVELSIf there are several possible antecedents for a givenVPE, preferences among those antecedents are de-termined by looking for other relations betweenthe VPE clause and the clauses containing the pos-sible antecedents.CLAUSAL RELAT IONSHIPSAn antecedent for a given VPE is preferred if thereis a configurational relationship between the an-tecedent clause and the VPE clause.
These includecomparative structures and adverbial clauses.Elliptical VP's (VPE) in comparative con-structions are of the form\[VP Comparative \[NP VPE\]\]where Comparatives are expressions uch as "aswell as", "better than", etc.
In constructions ofthis form there is a strong preference that VP  isthe antecedent for VPE .
For example:(8) Now, if Morton's newest product, a cornchip known as Chip-o's, turns out to sellas well as its stock did...Here, the antecedent of the VPE "did" is theVP "sell".The next configuration i volves VPE's withinadverbial clauses.
For example,(9) But if you keep a calendar of events, as wedo, you noticed a conflict.Here the antecedent for the VPE "do" is "keepa calendar of events".
In general, in configurationsof the form:11\[VP ADV \[NP VPE\]\]VP is preferred over other possible an-tecedents.It is important to note that this is a preferencerule, rather than an obligatory constraint.
Al-though no examples of this kind were found in theBrown Corpus, violations of this constraint maywell be possible.
For example:(10) John can walk faster than Harry can run.Bill can walk faster than Barry can.If a reading is possible in which the VPE is"Barry can run", this violates the clausal relation-ship preference rule.SUBJECT COREFERENCEAnother way in which two clauses are related issubject coreference.
An antecedent is preferred ifits subject corefers with that of the elliptical VP.An example:(11) He wondered if the audience would let himfinish.
They did.The preferred reading has "they" coreferentialwith "the audience" and the antecedent for "did"the VP "let him finish".Subject "coreference" is determined manually,and it is meant to reflect quantifier binding aswell as ordinary coreference - that is, standardinstances involving coindexing of NP's.Again, it must be emphasized that the subjectcoreference rule is a preference rule rather than anobligatory constraint.
While no violations werefound in the Brown corpus, it is possible to con-struct such examples.INTERACTION OF  PREFERENCERULESThere are cases where more than one preferencerule applies.
The antecedent selected is the itemwith the highest preference level.
If more thanone item has the same preference level, the itemnearest o the VPE is selected, where nearness isdetermined by number of words encountered scan-ning left from the VPE.In the following example, two preference rulesapply:(12) usually, this is most exasperating to men,who expect every woman to verify theirpreconceived notions concerning her sex,and when she does not, immediately con-demn her as eccentric and unwomanly.The VPE clause is an adverbial clause modi-fying the following clause.
Thus the VP "condemnher as eccentric and unwomanly" receives a pref-erence level of 1.
The subject "she" of the VPE iscoindexed with "every woman".
This causes theVP "verify their preconceived notions concerningher sex" to also receive a preference level of 1.Since both of these elements have the same pref-erence level, proximity is determined by scanningleft from the VPE.
This selects "verify their pre-conceived notions concerning her sex" as the an-tecedent.TEST ING THE ALGORITHMThe algorithm has been tested on a set of 304 ex-amples of VP ellipsis collected from the BrownCorpus.
These examples were collected using theUNIX grep pattern-matching utility.
The versionof the Brown Corpus used has each word tagged bypart of speech.
I defined search patterns for aux-iliary verbs that did not have verbs nearby.
Thesepatterns did not succeed in locating all the in-stances of VP ellipsis in the Brown Corpus.
How-ever, the 304 examples do cover the full range oftypes of material in the Brown Corpus, includ-ing both "Informative" (e.g., journalistic, scien-tific, and government texts) and "Imaginative"(e.g., novels, short stories, and humor).
I have di-vided these examples into three categories, basedon whether the antecedent is in the same sentenceas the VPE, the adjacent (preceding) sentence, orearlier ("Long-Distance").
The definition of sen-tence is taken from the sentence divisions presentin the Brown Corpus.RESULTSThe algorithm selected the correct antecedent in285, or 94% of the cases.
For comparison pur-poses, I present results of an alternative strategy;namely, a simple linear scan of preceding text.
Inthis strategy, the first verb that is encountered istaken to be the head of the antecedent VP.The results of the algorithm and the "LinearScan" approach are displayed in the following ta-ble.CategorySame-sentAdj-sentLong-DistTotal1969315304A lgor i thmNo.
Correct193(96%)85(92%)7(47%)285(94%)Linear ScanNo.
Correct172(88%)72(77%)2(13%)247(81%)The algorithm performs considerably betterthan Linear Scan.
Much of the improvement is dueto "impossible antecedents" which are selected bythe Linear Scan approach because they are closestto the VPE.
A frequent case of this is contain-ing antecedents hat are ruled out by the algo-rithm.
Another case distinguishing the algorithmfrom Linear Scan involves coreferential subjects.There were several cases in which the coreferen-tial subject preference rule caused an antecedentto be selected that was not the nearest to the VPE.One example is:(13) a.
But, darn it all, why should we help a cou-ple of spoiled snobs who had looked downtheir noses at us?b.
But, in the end, we did.Here, the correct antecedent is the more dis-tant "help a couple of...", rather than "lookeddown their noses...".
There were no cases in whichLinear Scan succeeded where the algorithm failed.
(14) a.SOURCES OF  ERRORI will now look at sources of errors for the algo-rithm.
The performance was worst in the LongDistance category, in which at least one sentenceintervenes between antecedent and VPE.
In sev-eral problem cases in the Long Distance category,it appears that intervening text contains somemechanism that causes the antecedent to remainsalient.
For example:"...in Underwater Western Eye I'd have achance to act.
I could show what I cando"  .b.
As far as I was concerned, she had alreadyand had dandily shown what she could do.In this case, the elliptical VP "had already"means "had already had a chance to act".
Thealgorithm incorrectly selects "show what I cando" as the antecedent.
The intervening sentencecauses the previous antecedent to remain salient,since it is understood as "(If I had a chance toact then) I could show what I can do."
Further-more, the choice made by the algorithm ight per-haps be eliminated on pragmatic grounds, giventhe oddness of "she had already shown what shecould do and had dandily shown what she coulddo .
"Another way in which the algorithm could begeneralized is illustrated by the follow example:(15) a.
"I didn't ask you to fight for the ball club",Phil said slowly.b.
"Nobody else did, either".Here the algorithm incorrectly selects '~fightfor the ball club" as the antecedent, instead of "askyou to fight for the ball club".
The subject coref-erence rule does not apply, since "Nobody else"12is not coreferential with the subject of any of thepossible antecedents.
However, its interpretationis dependent on the subject 'T' of "ask you to fightfor the ball club".
Thus, if one generalized thesubject coreference rule to include such forms ofdependence, the algorithm would succeed on suchexamples.Many of the remaining errors involve an an-tecedent that takes a VP or S as complement, of-ten leading to subtle ambiguities.
One example ofthis is the following:(16) a.
Usually she marked the few who did thankyou, you didn't get that kind much in aplace like this: and she played a littlegame with herself, seeing how downrightrude she could act to the others, beforethey'd take offense, threaten to call themanager.b.
Funny how seldom they did: used to it,probably.Here the algorithm selects "call the manager"as antecedent, instead of "threaten to call themanager", which I determined to be the correctantecedent.
It may be that many of these casesinvolve a genuine ambiguity.OTHER APPROACHESThe problem addressed here, of determining theantecedent for an elliptical VP, has received littleattention in the literature.
Most treatments ofVP ellipsis (cf.
Sag 1976, Williams 1977, Webber1978, Fiengo and May 1990, Dalrymple, Shieberand Pereira 1991) have focused on the questionof determining what readings are possible, givenan elliptical VP and a particular antecedent.
Fora computational system, a method is required todetermine the antecedent, after which the possiblereadings can be determined.Lappin and McCord (1990) present an al-gorithm for VP ellipsis which contains a partialtreatment of this problem.
However, while theydefine three possible ellipsis-antecedent configura-tions, they have nothing to say about selectingamong alternatives, if there is more than one VPin an allowed configuration.
The three configu-rations given by Lappin and McCord for a VPE-antecedent pair < V,A> are:1.
V is contained in the clausal complement ofa subordinate conjunction SC, where the SC-phrase is either (i) an adjunct of A, or (ii) anadjunct of a noun N and N heads an NP argu-ment of A, or N heads the NP argument of anadjunct of A.2.
V is contained in a relative clause that modifiesa head noun N, with N contained in A, and, if13a verb A t is contained in A and N is containedin A t, then A p is an infinitival complement of Aor a verb contained in A.3.
V is contained in the right conjunct of a senten-tial conjunction S, and A is contained in the leftconjunct of S.An examination of the Brown Corpus exam-ples reveals that these configurations are incom-plete in important ways.
First, there is no con-figuration that allows a sentence intervening be-tween antecedent and VPE.
Thus, none of theLong-Distance xamples (about 5% of the sam-ple) would be covered.
Configuration (3) dealswith antecedent-VPE pairs in adjacent S's.
Thereare many such cases in which there is no sententialconjunction.
For example:(17) a.
All the generals who held important com-mands in World War 2, did not writebooks.b.
It only seems as if they did.Perhaps configuration (3) could be interpretedas covering any adjacent S's, whether or not anexplicit conjunction is present.
9.Furthermore, there are cases in which the ad-jacent categories are something other than S; inthe following two examples, the antecedent andVPE are in adjacent VP's.
(18)(19)The experts are thus forced to hypothe-size sequences of events that have neveroccurred, probably never will - but possi-bly might.The innocent malfeasant, filled with thatsupreme sense of honor found in bars, in-sisted upon replacing the destroyed mona-cle - and did, over the protests of the for-mer owner - with a square monacle.In the following example, the adjacent cate-gory is S'.
(20) I remember him pointing out of the win-dow and saying that he wished he couldlive to see another spring but that hewouldn't.Configurations (1) and (2) deal withantecedent-VPE pairs within the same sentence.In Configuration (1), the VPE is in a subordinateclause, and In (2), the VPE is in a relative clause.In each case, the VPE is c-commanded by theantecedent A.
While the configurations cover two2However, a distinction must be maintained be-tween VPE and related phenomena such as gappingand "pseudo-gapping", in which an explicit conjunc-tion is required.quite common cases, there are other same-sentenceconfigurations in which the antecedent does not c-command the VPE.
(21)(22)In the first place, a good many writers whoare said to use folklore, do not, unless onecounts an occasional superstition or tale.In reply to a question of whether they nowtax boats, airplanes and other movableproperty excluding automobiles, nineteensaid that they did and twenty that theydid not.In sum, the configurations defined by Lappinand McCord would miss a significant number ofcases in the Brown Corpus, and, even where theydo apply, there is no method for deciding amongalternative possibilities.
3CONCLUSIONSTo interpret an elliptical expression it is neces-sary to determine the antecedent expression, afterwhich a method of reconstructing the antecedentexpression at the ellipsis site is required.
Whilethe literature on VP ellipsis contains a vast ar-ray of proposals concerning the proper method ofreconstructing a given antecedent for an ellipticalVP, there has been little attention to the questionof determining the antecedent.In this paper, I have proposed a solution tothis problem; I have described an algorithm thatdetermines the antecedent for elliptical VP's.
Itwas shown that the algorithm achieves 94% ac-curacy on 304 examples of VP ellipsis collectedfrom the Brown Corpus.
Many of the failure casesappear to be due to the interaction of VPE withother anaphoric phenomena, nd others may becases of genuine ambiguity.ACKNOWLEDGEMENTSThanks to Aravind Joshi and Bonnie Webber.This work was supported by the following grants:ARO DAAL 03-89-C-0031, DARPA N00014-90-J-1863, NSF IRI 90-16592, and Ben Franklin91S.3078C-1.REFERENCESSusan E. Brennan, Marilyn Walker Friedman, andCarl J. Pollard.
A Centering Approach to Pro-3While the problem of antecedent determinationfor VP ellipsis has been largely neglected, the anal-ogous problem for pronoun resolution has been ad-dressed (cf.
Hobbs 1978, Grosz, Joshi, and Weinstein1983 and 1986, and Brennan, Friedman and Pollard1987), and two leading proposals have been subjectedto empirical testing (Walker 1989).\ ]4nouns, Proceedings of the 25th Annual Meeting ofthe ACL, 1987.Mary Dalrymple, Stuart Shieber and Fer-nando Pereira.
Ellipsis and Higher-Order Unifi-cation.
Linguistics and Philosophy.
Vol.
14, no.4, August 1991.Robert Fiengo and Robert May.
Ellipsis andAnaphora.
Paper presented at GLOW 1990, Cam-bridge University, Cambridge, England.Robert Fiengo and Robert May.
ndices andIdentity.
ms. 1991.Barbara Grosz, Aravind Joshi, and Scott We-instein.
Providing a Unified Account of DefiniteNoun Phrases in Discourse.
In Proceedings, 2IstAnnual Meeting of the ACL, pp.
44-50, Cam-bridge, MA, 1983.Barbara Grosz, Aravind Joshi, and Scott We-instein.
Towards a Computational Theory of Dis-course Interpretation.
ms. 1986.Isabelle Haik.
Bound VP's That Need To Be.Linguistics and Philosophy 11: 503-530.
1987.Jerry Hobbs.
Resolving Pronoun References,Lingua 44, pp.
311-338.
1978.Shalom Lappin and Michael McCord.Anaphora Resolution in Slot Grammar, in Com-putational Linguistics, vol 16, no 4.
1990.Robert May.
Logical Form: Its Structure andDerivation, MIT Press, Cambridge Mass.
1985.Ivan A.
Sag.
Deletion and Logical Form.Ph.D.
thesis, MIT.
1976.Marilyn Walker.
Evaluating discourse pro-cessing algorithms.
In Proceedings, 27th AnnualMeeting of the ACL, Vancouver, Canada.
1989.Bonnie Lynn Webber.
A Formal Approach toDiscourse Anaphora.
Ph.D. thesis, Harvard Uni-versity.
1978.Edwin Williams.
Discourse and Logical Form.Linguistic Inquiry, 8(1):101-139.
1977.
