UNDERSTANDING REPET IT ION IN  NATURAL LANGUAGEINSTRUCTIONS - THE SEMANTICS  OF  EXTENTSheila RockDepartment of Artificial Intelligence,Edinburgh University*80 South Bridge, Edinburgh EH1 1HN, Scotland, United Kingdomsheilaraisb.ed.ac.ukI n t roduct ionNatural language instructions, though prevalent inmany spheres of communication, have only recentlybegun to receive attention within computationallinguistics\[5\].
Instructions are often accompaniedby language intended to signal repetition of the ac-tion that they instruct.
In order to develop a sys-tem that is able to understand instructions, withthe goal of executing them, it is necessary to inves-tigate what is meant by various types of repetition,and the different ways in which repetition can beexpressed.We focus on sentences that are instructing thatsome action is to be performed and that this actionis to be performed more than once 1.
There are twoaspects to consider - scope (what part of the actionthat is instructed in the dialogue is to be repeated)and extent (how much repetition is to be done).This is illustrated by examples (1) and (2).Place a chunk of rhubarb into each tart.
(1)Continue to layer in this way until all the (2)fruit is used.The repetition in (1) has scope on place a chunkof rhubarb (into a tart) and extent across all tarts.
(2) has scope over layer in this way and extent untilall the fruit used.
Within this framework of scopeand extent that I have described only informally, Idiscuss the issue of extent in more detail s.Karlin \[3\], presents a semantic analysis of verbalmodifiers in the domain of cooking tasks.
Much ofthis is pertinent to an examination ofextent, in par-tieular the relation of different modifiers to the as-peetual category of an event (according to Moens &Steedman \[4\]).
This has formed an important start-ing point for my work in understanding instructionsfor repetition.
However, there are aspects where adifferent approach to Karlin's is required, and someof these are discussed in the rest of this paper.Semant ics  o f  verba l  mod i f ie rsIn analysing the semantics of verbal modifiers,Karlin\[3\] identifies three kinds of modifiers, whichare themselves divided further.
The primary cate-gorisations are*Thanks  to Chris Mellish, Robert  Dale and Graeme Ritchiefor discussion about  the ideas in this paper.1 This paper  deals only with instructions, and uses the wordssentence and instruction interchangeably.2A central  theme of my thesis is that  both scope and extentmust  be accounted for in a full t reatment  of repetit ion, but adiscussion of scope is outwith the scope of this paper.2791 The number of repetitions of an action.2 The duration of an action.3 The speed of an action.It is clear that Karlin's first two primary cate-gories describe modifiers that are concerned withthe repetition of an action 3, and these are exam-ined in detail in the next sections.
First, though, itis useful to consider that with any action, we havea time interval, during which the action is to beperformed - once or more than once.
We can thencharacterise the extent of repetition in terms of thistime interval.
Modifiers of Karlin's category 2 tellus how long the time interval is, while modifiers ofcategory 1tell us how to carve up the time interval.One instruction may give information for both cat-egories, but this usually is for two different actions,such asRoast for 45 minutes, basting twice.
(3)Number  o f  repet i t ions  - carv ing  the  intervalIn this category, Karlin enumerates classes of mod-ifier as follows:?
cardinal count adverbials - turn the fish twice?
frequency adverbials - turn the fish occasionally?
plural objects - turn the pieces offishIn the discussion of frequency adverbials, Karlindescribes frequency as a continuous scale with grad-able terms, such as occasionally, often.
This classshould include explicit frequency in time units, asin every 5 minutes.Durat ion  o f  an ac t ion  - de l imi t ing  the  intervalHere, Karlin enumerates the following kinds ofmodifier:?
explicit duration in time intervals - fry the fishfor 10 minutes?
duration given by gradable terms - fry the fishbrie/Ty?
duration co-extensive with the duration of an-other action - continue to fry the millet, stirring,until the water boils?
duration characterized by a st'~te change - fry thefish until it is opaque?
disjuncts of explicit durations and state changes- fry the fish for 5 minutes or until it becomesopaque3I will not consider the third, which contr ibutes to "quality"of execution of an action, and does not perta in  to extent ofrepetit ion.In this category, Karlin does distinguish be-tween "explicit duration" and "duration in grad-able terms", whereas in the 'Trequency adverbials"classification, there are not seperate classes forvague and explicit frequency (say turn the fish ev-ery 5 minutes and turn the fish often).
To be moreconsistent, here should be one class within the cat-egory "number of repetitions of an action" thatcontains frequency adverbials 4, and only one classwithin the cat~gory "duration of an action" thatcontains duration in terms of time 5.
In both classesthere should be the possibility of being explicit orvague.
It is also preferable to call Karlin's secondcategory "duration of repetition of an action".
Thename "duration of an action" conflates the conceptof the basic action and its repetition.
The sepa-ration is pertinent o the view that repetition hasscope and extent.Karlin analyses the remaining three classes in cat-egory 2 explicitly in the context of cooking tasks.In particular, the analysis is related to the viewthat all processes in the cooking domain must haveculminations.
The validity of this approach is dis-cussed in the next section.
However, before doingthat we examine Karlin's final class, "disjuncts ofexplicit durations and state changes".
This is aclass of instructions found mainly in the cookingdomain.
The example used by Karlin is (4).Steam for g minutes or until the mussels (4)open.Karlin asserts that 'the meaning of sentences inthis category is not the same as that of logicaldisjunction'\[3, pg 64\], and claims that the mean-ing of the disjunction is that 'the state change(the mussels are open) is to be used to determinethe duration of the action (2 minutes)' \[ibid\] (myparentheses) s .I agree that the meaning is not simply that of log-ical disjunction, but we need to examine the issuefurther.
Data that I have collected gives evidencethat the use of the or is not significant.
There aremany examples where a recipe book will give thesame instruction, both with and without it.
Forexample,... at least 10 minutes or until the flour is (5)well browned \[2, pg 120\]Bake for about g hours, until the rabbit andlentils are tender \[2, pgll9\] (6)Bake for 45 minutes or until the rabbit is (7)tender \[2, pgll8\]In all of these, we have an instruction describingone of the following scenariosT:Do some action until an expected statechange occurs.
This should take the du- (8)ration specified.4This  is as Kar l in 's  classif icat ion5Th is  is different from Kar l in 's  classif ication6Kar l in  sees these as meta l inguist ic  disjunction, which I be-l ieve is s imi lar  to par t  of my view.7I make  no c la ims about  exact ly  which of these scenarios isbe ing descr ibed.280Do some action for a specified duration.
I fthe expected state change does not occurduring this time, then it is likely that some- (9)thing has gone wrong.What is really being given is a way to decide whento stop the action, and the use of two clauses pro-vides a way of deciding whether the stop state issuccessful or a failure.
For success, if the statechange has occured, then we will expect that theduration has also passed s. If the duration haspassed but the state change has not oecured, or ifthe state change has occurred but the duration hasnot passed, we still reach the stop state, but in thefailed mode.
We then have disjunction for stopping(we stop if either the duration or the state change istrue) but conjunction for success (stop and a nor-mal outcome is only true if both the clauses aretrue).
We note that often domain knowledge willallow the hearer to determine whether the durationis given as a minimum or maximum time, and whatthe effect of failure is.
The analysis presented heredoes not take the use of domain knowledge into ac-count, to give a more general analysis.From the point of view of repetition, what weare given is a stopping condition, that is coded interms of two alternatives.
Using an informal no-tation, what is being expressed with and withoutor respectively, are the following, which are equiv-alent:should-stop(action, t)*--(difference(start, t,x), x >_ duration) V (state(q,t))should-stop(action, t)*- (difference(start, t,x),x >_ duration) Ashould-stop(action, t),--- (state(q,t))Thus (7) artd (6) can be represented asshould-stop(bake, t)~---(differenee(start, t,x), x >45-minutes )V (tender(rabbit, t))should-stop(bake, t),--- (difference(start, t,z),av >_ about.2-hours) Ashoutd-stop(bake, O,-- (tender(rabbit-and-lentils, t))Sometimes, the order of the two modifiers isdifferent 9 indicating that the positioning of theclauses is not important.... until the meat is tender, about 45 min'llO~t )utes \[2, pg 119\]... until the meat is meltingly tender --(11)about 30 minutes \[2, pgll9\]Karlin proposes that the duration modifier isonly an approximation, and that it is the statechange modifier that determines the truth of thesentence 1?.
Most durations, however, in the do-main of cooking tasks, are approximations.
Decid-ing whether a state change has been reached is also8This  in fact seems closer to logical conjunct ion than logicaldisjunction.9The exchanged order is usual ly used wi thout  the or .l ?The  terms left dis junct and r ight dis junct are used by Kar-lin, but in sentences like (10) and (11) these are not helpfulindicators.approximate.
In a domain where durations and ev-idence of state change are less approximate (say inchemistry), it is not clear that it is always one of theclauses that is performing the role of establishingthe truth of the sentence.Aspectua l  ca tegory  and  verba l  modi f ie rsKarlin's discussion is given in the context of theaspectual category of an event (according to Moens& Steedman \[4\]).
This is useful as it gives a way ofextracting semantic information.Karlin claims that points, culminations and cul-minated processes (but not process type events) canhave a number of repetitions associated with them(category 1).
An expression whose aspectual type isa process or culminated process can co-occur with aduration modifier (category 2).
This second claimrequires closer examination.First, Moens & Steedman say that 'culminatedprocesses ... (do not combine readily) with a for-adverbial'.
Yet for-adverbials are one of the classesof duration modifier ennumerated by Karlin.
Welook at two of the examples presented by Karlin.Stir for I minute.
(12)Saute over high heat until moisture is evaP-(13)orated.The expressions in both of these (without theirmodifiers - that is Stir and Saute over high heat)are processes, but not culminated processes.
Anessential part of a culmination is that there is aconsequent state \[4, pg 16\].
None of the exam-ples Karlin uses has a culminated process as theaspectual type of the action expressed.
(13) couldbe seen as culminated processes if viewed togetherwith the duration modifier (in other words, if italready co-occurs with a duration modifier), while(12) is a process, even with the modifier.
Thus, theview of Moens & Steedman holds and is in fact use-ful in extracting semantic information.
An until-clause signals a culmination, thus making a processinto a culminated process.
A for-adverbial doesnot change the aspectual type of a process.We now look at the assertion that 'Each processin the cooking domain must have a culmination ...'\[3, pg 62\].
This is accompanied by a claim that averb may contain inherent information about theendpoint of the action it describes, as inChop the onion.
(14)which, according to Karlin, describes a culminatedprocess whose endpoint is defined by the state ofthe onion.
This seems quite feasible, even if itdoes require that some world knowledge is required.However, if we consider instead the exampleStir the soup.
(15)this does not describe any culmination, as there isno consequent s ate.
Yet it is a process, as it maybe extended in time.281Karlin's justification for the above assertion isthat cooking tasks involve a sequence of stepswith the goal of bringing about a state change.There are also instructions for preventing a statechange though, for example stirring (to preventsticking).
We could argue that stirring brings usto the changed state "stirred".
But then, if we lookback to the Moens & Steedman analysis, where heclimbed has no culmination, we could claim thatthis has the changed state "has climbed".
This isnot the spirit intended by the Moens & Steedmananalysis, and it is more useful to see some actions incooking as not having culminations.
We can thenexamine what kinds of modifiers change aspectualcategory and in what manner, as presented abovefor the for- and until-adverbials.ConclusionThe semantics of repetition in instructions i moreclearly understood if we view repetition as havingscope and extent.
Within this framework, Karlin'swork on the semantics ofverbal modifiers provides auseful starting point.
In particular, relating this tothe aspectuai category of an instruction accordingto Moens & Steedman \[4\] is important.
We canmake use of Moens & Steedman's schema for theway aspect changes when modifiers are added toexpressions, to extract semantic information.
Thiswill allow a fuller treatment of extent, for use inthe development of a semantics for repetition thattreats both scope and extent more completely.References\[1\] Ball, C. N. "On the Interpretation ofDescrip-tive and Metaiinguistic Disjunction", unpub-lished paper, University of Pennsylvania, Au-gust 1985.\[2\] Floyd, Keith Floyd on Britain and Ireland,BBC Books, London, 1988.\[3\] Karlin, Robin "Defining the semantics of ver-bal modifiers in the domain of cooking tasks."Proc.
26th Annual Meeting of the Associationfor Computational Linguistics, Buffalo NY,USA, June 1988, pp.
61-67.\[4\] Moens, Marc & Steedman, Mark "TemporalOntology and Temporal Reference."
Computa-tional Linguistics 14:2, June i988, pp.
15-28\[5\] Webber, Bonnie.
Course description for In-structions as Discourse, 3rd European Sum-mer School in Language, Logic & Information,Saarbrucken, August 1991.
