INFERRING DISCOURSE RELATIONS IN CONTEXT*Alex LascaridesHuman CommunicationResearch Centre,University of Edinburgh,2 Buccleuch Place, Edinburghalex@cogsc?, ed.
ac.
ukNicholas AsherCenter for Cognitive Science,University of Texas,Austin, Texas 78712asher@cgs, utexas, edu: I on  Ober landerHuman CommunicationResearch Centre,University of Edinburgh,2 Buccleuch Place, Edinburghjonecogec?,  ed.
ac .ukAbstractWe investigate various contextual effects on textinterpretation, and account for them by providingcontextual constraints in a logical theory of textinterpretation.
On the basis of the way these con-straints interact with the other knowledge sources,we draw some general conclusions about the roleof domain-specific information, top-down and bot-tom-up discourse information flow, and the use-fulness of formalisation in discourse theory.Introduct ion:  T ime Switchingand Amel io rat ionTwo essential parts of discourse interpretation i -volve (i) determining the rhetorical role each sen-tence plays in the text; and (ii) determining thetemporal relations between the events described.Preceding discourse context has significant effectson both of these aspects of interpretation.
Forexample, text (1) in vacuo may be a non-iconicexplanation; the pushing caused the falling andso explains why Max fell.
But the same pairof sentences may receive an iconic, narrative in-terpretation i the discourse context provided by(2): John takes advantage of Max's vulnerabilitywhile he is lying the ground, to push him over theedge of the cliff.
(1) Max fell.
John pushed him.
(2) John and Max came to the cliff's edge.
Johnapplied a sharp blow to the back of Max'sneck.
Max fell.
John pushed him.
Max rolledover the edge of the cliff.a The support of the Science and Engineering ResearchCouncil through project number GR/G22077 is gratefullyacknowledged.
HCRC is supported by the Economic andSociM Research Council.
We thank two anonymous re-viewers for their helpful comments.Moreover, the text in (3) in vacuo is incoherent,but becomes coherent in (4)'s context.
(3)(4)?Max won the race in record time.
He washome with the cup.Max got up early yesterday.
He had a lit-tle bite to eat.
He had a light workout.
Hestarted the tournament in good form.
Hewon the race in record time.
He was homewith the cup.
He celebrated until late intothe evening.So we can see that discourse context can timeswitch our interpretation of sentence pairs, (cf.
(1) and (2)); and it can ameliorate it, (cf.
(4)'simprovement of (3)).
The purpose of this paperis two-fold: we attempt o capture formally theseaspects of discourse context's impact on clausalattachment; and in the process, we assess whetherthe structure of the domain being described mightbe sufficient alone to account for the phenomena.Of course, the idea that discourse context con-strains the discourse role assigned to the currentclause is by no means new.
Reference resolutionis influenced by discourse structure (cf.
Groszand Sidner 1986:188 for a very clear case); andit in turn influences discourse structure.
Now, onthe one hand, Polanyi and Scha (1984), Hobbs(1985), and Thompson and Mann (1987) haveargued that 'genre' or 'rhetorical schemata' caninfluence the relations used in discourse attach-ment.
On the other hand, Sibun (1992) has re-cently argued that domain-specific nformation,as opposed to domain-independent rhetorical in-formation, plays the central role.
Both ideas areintriguing, but so far only the latter has beenspecified in sufficient detail to assess how it worksin general, and neither has been applied to timeswitching or amelioration in particular.We limit our discussion to temporal aspects ofdiscourse interpretation; our strategy here is toexplore two possible contextual constraints; thesestate how the discourse context filters the set ofdiscourse relations and temporal relations whichmay be used to attach the current clause to therepresentation f the text so far.
We then framecontextual constraints in a logical theory of textinterpretation, where their effects and interactionscan be precisely calculated.
We therefore first in-troduce a domain-specific contextual constraint,following Sibun, and then place it in a formal the-ory of discourse attachment called DICE, devel-oped in Lascarides and Asher (1991a).
We thenshow how the proposed domain-constraint is in-sufficient, and demonstrate how it can be aug-mented by adding a rhetorical, or presentationalconstraint o the theory.Constra ints  from theDomain  ContextIn the field of NL generation, Sibun (1992) hasrecently argued that coherent ext must have astructure closely related to the domain structureof its subject matter; naturally, her remarks arealso relevant o NL interpretation.
She pursues aview that task structure, or more generally, do-main structure, is sufficient o account for manydiscourse phenomena (but cf.
Grosz and Sidner1986:182).
She examines in detail the generationof paragraph-length exts describing the layoutof a house.
Houses have structure, following froma basic relation of spatial proximity, and thereare also hierarchical levels to the structure (roomscan be listed without describing what's in them,or the objects within each room can be detailed).Either way, one constraint on text structure isdefined in terms of the description's trajectory:the spatial direction the description moved in thedomain, to get from the objects already describedto the current one.
The constraint is: don't changetrajectory.
Sibun argues that in the temporal do-main, the basic relation is temporal proximity.But Lascarides and Oberlander (1992a) urge thatthe temporal coherence of text is characterised interms of, among other things, the stronger ba-sic relation of causal proximity.
So in the latterdomain, Sibun's domain constraint precludes tex-tual descriptions which procede from a cause toan effect to a further cause of that effect, or fromeffect to cause to effect.This Maintain Causal Trajectory (MCT) con-s t ra int  has two important attributes: first, it isdomain-specific; secondly, it introduces into dis-course interpretation an element of top-down pro-cessing.
To investigate these properties, and seehow far they go towards explaining discourse timeswitch, and discourse amelioration, we now incor-porate MCT into DICE's formal model of discoursestructure, where its interaction with other causalinformation and strategies for interpretation canbe precisely calculated.Discourse Interpretat ion andCommonsense  Enta i lmentDICE (Discourse and C_ommonsense Entailment)starts with traditional discourse representationstructures (cf.
Kamp 1981), but goes on to as-sume with Grosz and Sidner (1986) that candi-date discourses possess hierarchical structure, withunits linked by discourse relations modelled af-ter those proposed by IIobbs (1979, 1985) (cf.also Thompson and Mann 1987, Scha and Polanyi1988).
1 Lascarides and Asher (1991a) use Narra-tion, Explanation, Background, Result and Elab-oration.
These are the discourse relations centralto temporal import and they are the only ones weconsider here.
Full coverage of text would requirea larger set of relations, akin to that in Thompsonand Mann (1987).DICE is a dynamic, logical theory for deter-mining the discourse relations between sentencesin a text, and the temporal relations betweenthe eventualities they describe.
The logic usedis the nonmonotonic logic Commonsense Entail-ment (CE) proposed by Asher and Morreau (1991).Implicatures are calculated via default rules.
Therules introduced below are shown in Lascaridesand Asher (1991a) to be manifestations ofGricean-style pragmatic maxims and world knowledge.D iscourse  S t ructure  and  Impl i ca tureA formal notation makes clear both the logicalstructure of these rules, and the problems involvedin calculating implicature.
Let (% ~,fl) be theupdate function, which means "the representa-XLascaxides and Asher (1991a) introduces the generalframework and applies it to interpretation; Oberlanderand Lascaxides (1992) and Lascarides and Oberlander(1992b) use the framework for generation.tion r of the text so far (of which a is alreadya part) is to be updated with the representationfl of the current clause via a discourse relationwith a".
Let a g /~ mean that a is a topicfor fl; let e~ be a term referring to the maineventuality described by the clause a; and letfal l(m, e~) mean that this event is a Max falling.Let el -~ e2 mean the eventuality et precedes e~,and cause(el,ei) mean el causes ei.
Finally, werepresent he defeasible connective as in Asherand Morreau (1991) as a conditional > (so ?
> ?means 'if ?, then normally ? '
)and --* is the ma-terial conditional.
The maxims for modelling im-plicature are then represented as schemas: 2?
Narration: ( r ,a ,  fl) > Narration(a, fl)?
Axiom on Narration:Narration(a, fl) ---* ea -q e#?
Explanation: (r, ^ caus (  , >Ezplanation( a, fl)?
Ax iom on Explanation:Explanation(a, fl) ~ ~ea -~ e~?
Push Causal  Law:(r, a, 1~) ^  fal l (m, ca) ^  push(j, m, ca) >cause(ea, ec,)?
Causes Precede E f fec ts :cause(ei, el) ---, "-,st -~ e2?
States Overlap:(r, a, fl) ^ state(e#) > overlap(ca, e#)?
Background: (% a,f l)  ^  overlap(e~, ca) >Background(a, fl)?
Ax iom on Background:Background(a, fl) ---.
overlap(ca, c# )The rules for Narration, Explanation and Back-ground constitute defeasible linguistic knowledge,and the axioms on them indefeasible linguisticknowledge.
In particular, Narration and its ax-iom convey information about the pragmatic ef-fects of the descriptive order of events; unlessthere is information to the contrary, it is assumedthat the descriptive order of events matches their2Discourse structure and c~ ~t/3 are given model theo-retical interpretations in Asher (in press); e(~ abbreviatesme(c~), which is formally defined in Lascarides and Asher(1991b) in an intuitively correct way.
For simplicity, wehave here ignored the modal nature of the indefeasibleknowledge; in fact, an indefeasible rule is embedded withinthe necessity operator 1:3.3temporal order in interpretation.
The Push CausalLaw is a mixture of linguistic knowledge and worldknowledge; given that the clauses are discourse-related somehow, the events they describe mustnormally be connected in a causal, part /whole oroverlap relation; here, given the events in ques-tion, they must normally stand in a causal rela-tion.
That  Causes Precede their Effects is inde-feasible world knowledge.We also have laws relating the discourse struc-ture to the topic structure (Asher, in press): forexample, A Common Topic for Narrative statesthat any clauses related by Narration must havea distinct, common (and perhaps implicit) topic:?
A Common Topic for Narrat iveNarration(a, fl) -*^ ^ /3) ^The hierarchical discourse structure is similarto that in Scha and Polanyi (1988): Elaborationand Explanation are subordinating relations andthe others are coordinating ones.
Equally, thisstructure defines similar constraints on attach-ment: the current clause must attach to the pre-vious clause or else to the clauses it elaboratesor explains.
In other words, the open clauses arethose on the right frontier.
We do not directly en-code the nucleus/satell ite distinction used in RST(Thompson and Mann, 1987).In terpretat ion  by  Deduct ioncE and the defeasible rules are used to infer thediscourse and temporal---structures of candidatetexts, cE represents nonmonotonic validity as~.
Three patterns of nonmonotonic inference areparticularly relevant:?
De feas ib le  Modus Ponens: ~ > ~b,~b ~ ?e.g.
Birds normally fly, Tweety is a bird; soTweety flies?
The Penguin Principle:e.g.
Penguins are birds, birds normally fly,penguins normally don't fly, Tweety is apenguin; so Tweety doesn't fly.?
Nixon Diamond:Not: ?
> X,?
> -~X,?,?
~ X (or -~X)e.g.
Not: Quakers are pacifists, Republi-cans are not, Nixon is both a quaker andrepublicanNixon is a pacifist/Nixon is a non-pacifist.Iconic  and  Non- lconic  text :  In interpretingtext (5) we attempt o attach the second clauseto the first (so (a, c~, fl) holds, where a and flare respectively the logical forms of the first andsecond clauses).
(5) Max stood up.
John greeted him.
(1) Max fell.
John pushed him.In the absence of further information, the onlyrule whose antecedent is satisfied is Narration.So we infer via Defeasible Modus Ponens thatthe Narration relation holds between its clauses.This then yields, assuming logical omniscience,an iconic interpretation; the standing up precedesthe greeting.
In contrast, text (1) verifies the an-tecedents to two of our defeasible laws: Narrationand the Push Causal Law.
The consequents ofthese default laws cannot both hold in a consis-tent KS.
By the Penguin Principle, the law withthe more specific antecedent wins: the CausalLaw, because its antecedent logically entails Nar-ration's.
Hence (1) is interpreted as: the push-ing caused the falling.
In turn, this entails thatthe antecedent to Explanation is verified; andwhilst conflicting with Narration, it's more spe-cific, and hence its consequent--Explanation--follows by the Penguin Principle.
3 Notice thatdeductions about event structure and discoursestructure are interleaved.Incoherence  and  popping:  Consider the in-coherent ext (3).
(3) ?Max won the race in record time.
He washome with the cup.The Win Law captures the intuition that if Maxwins the race and he is at home, then these eventsnormally don't temporally overlap--regardless ofwhether they're connected or not.?
W in  Law:win(max, race, ex) A athome(max, e2) >-~overlap(e x, e2)The appropriate knowledge base in the analysisof (3) satisfies States Overlap, the Win Law andNarration.
The first two of these conflict, buttheir antecedents aren't logically related.
They3The formal details of how the logic CB models theseinterpretations are given in Lascarides and Asher (1991b).Although the double application of the Penguin Principle,as in (1), is not valid in general, they show that for theparticular case considered here, GE validates it.4therefore form a pattern out of which a NixonDiamond crystallises: no temporal or discourserelation can be inferred.
We stipulate that it is in-coherent to assume that (% a,/3) if one can't inferwhich discourse relation holds between a and ft.So the assumption that the clauses are connectedmust be dropped, and hence no representation f(3) is constructed.DICE exploits this account of incoherence in itsapproach to discourse popping.
When a NixonDiamond occurs in attempting to attach the cur-rent clause to the previous one, they don't forma coherent ext segment.
So the current clausemust attach to one of the other open clauses,resulting in discourse popping (Lascarides andAsher, 1991a).Trajectory in DICEIt should be clear DICE's devices, while formal,are also quite powerful.
However, the maximsintroduced so far cannot actually explain eitherdiscourse time switching (cf.
(1) vs (2)) or ame-lioration (cf.
(3) vs (4)).
Incorporating someform of contextual constraint may be one way todeal with such cases.
Because DICE makes essen-tial use of nonmonotonic nference, adding con-textual constraints will alter the inferences with-out requiring modification of the existing knowl-edge representation.
We now investigate the con-sequences of adding MCT.Maintain Causal TrajectorySuppose R(a, ~) holds for some discourse relationR; then a appears in the text before/3, and weuse this fact to define MCT.
The default law be-low states that if the existing discourse contextis one where a cause/effect relation was describedin that order, then the current clause should notdescribe a further cause of the effect:?
Maintain Causal Trajectory: (r, fl,7)AIn using this rule, an interpreter brings to bear'top-down' information, in the following sense.Up to now, discourse and temporal relations havebeen determined by using the input discourse asdata, and predicting the relations using generallinguistic and world knowledge.
Now, the inter-preter is permitted to 'remember' which predic-tion they made last time, and use this to constrainthe kind of relation that can be inferred for at-taching the current clause; this new predictionneeds no data to drive it.
Of course, incomingdata can prevent he prediction from being made;MCT is just a default, and (6) is an exception.
(6) Max switched off the light.
The room wentpitch dark, since he had drawn the blinds too.Time SwitchingMCT says how the event structures predicted forpreceding context can affect the temporal rela-tions predicted for the current clause.
But howdoes it interact with other causal knowledge inDICE?
Does it account for time switching?
SinceMCT is a contextual constraint, it will only inter-act with causal knowledge in a discourse context.So consider how it affects the attachment of (2c)and (2d).
(2) a. John and Max came to the cliff's edge.Otb.
John applied a sharp blow to the backof Max's neck.
flc.
Max fell.
7d.
John pushed him.
6e.
Max rolled over the edge of the cliff.Suppose that the logical forms of the clauses (2a-e) are respectively o~ to e, and suppose that thediscourse structure up to and including 3" hasbeen constructed in agreement with intuitions:Narration Narration(29 ~ ' ~ " "rFurthermore, assume, in line with intuitions, thatthe interpreter has inferred that e# caused e 7.Consider how 6 is to be attached to the abovediscourse structure.
3' is the only open clause; so(% 3', 6) must hold.
The antecedents o three de-feasible laws are verified: the Push Causal Lawand Narration just as before, and also MCT.
Theconsequents of the Push Causal Law and MCTconflict; moreover, their antecedents aren't logi-cally related.
So by the Nixon Diamond, we can'tinfer which event--or discourse--relation holds.Accordingly, the discourse is actually incoherent.Yet intuitively, a relation can be inferred: thepush happened after the fall, and the clauses 3"and 6 must be related by Narration.On its own, MCT cannot account for time switch-ing (or, indeed, amelioration).
In one sense thisisn't surprising.
Causal knowledge and MCT werein conflict in (2), and since both laws relate tothe domain, but in incommensurable ways, nei-ther logic nor intuition can say which default ispreferred.
This suggests that using domain struc-ture alone to constrain interpretation will be in-sufficient.
It seems likely that presentational is-sues will be significant in cases such as these;where domain-specific knowledge sources are inirresolvable conflict, aspects of the existing dis-course structure may help determine current clauseattachment.
Since MCT has some motivation, itwould be preferrable to let presentational infor-mation interact with it, rather than replace it.Const ra in ts  f rom thePresentat iona l  ContextTo what degree does existing rhetorical structuredetermine clause attachment?
It's plausible tosuggest hat a speaker-writer should not switchgenre without syntactically marking the switch.Thus, if the preceding context is narrative, thena hearer-reader will continue to interpret he dis-course as narrative unless linguistic markers in-dicate otherwise; similarly for non-narrative con-texts (cf.
Caenepeel 1991, Polanyi and Scha 1984).This constraint relies on the continuation of acharacteristic pattern of discourse relations, ratherthan on maintaining trajectory on some domainrelation.
Let's call this a presentational constraint;it may be able to get the right analyses of (2) and(4).
In (2), for example, the context to whichJohn pushed him is attached is narrative, so ac-cording to the constraint his clause would beattached with Narration in agreement with in-tuitions.
But clearly, this constraint must be asoft one, since discourse pops can occur withoutsyntactic markers, as can interruptions (Polanyi1985:306).
Both of these cause a change in thediscourse 'pattern' established in the precedingcontext.Pat terns  in D ICECan we use presentational constraints without ac-cidentally blocking discourse popping and inter-ruptions?
The problem is to represent in formalterms exactly when an interpreter should try topreserve the pattern of rhetorical structure stab-lished in the context.
Because DICE provides aformal account of how discourse popping occurs--the Nixon Diamond is the key--we are in a goodposition to attempt his.Discourse Pattern and InertiaFirst, we define the discourse pattern establishedby the context in terms of a function DP.
Thistakes as input the discourse structure for the pre-ceding context, filters out those discourse rela-tions which would break the pattern, and outputsthe remaining set of relations.
This is similar toHobbs' (1985:25-26) notion of genre, where, forexample (in his terms) a story genre requires thatthe type of occasion relation can be only problem-solution or event-outcome.How much of the preceding discourse contextdoes DP take as input?
At one extreme, it couldbe just the discourse relations used to attach theprevious clause; the output would be those samediscourse relations.
At the other extreme, thewhole discourse structure may be input; DP wouldhave to establish the regularity in the configu-ration of discourse relations, and evaluate whichdiscourse relation would preserve it when the newclause is added.
We leave this question open; forthe examples of time switching and ameliorationwe consider here, DP would produce the same re-sult whatever it takes as input--Narration.Using DP, we can represent the discourse pat-tern constraint.
The intuition it captures is thefollowing.
If the sentence currently being pro-cessed can't attach to any of the open nodes be-cause there's a Nixon Diamond of irresolvable con-flict, then assume that the discourse relation to beused is defined by DP.
In other words, discoursepattern preservation applies only when all otherinformation prevents attachment at all availableopen nodes.
To express this formally, we needa representation of a state in which a Nixon Di-amond has formed.
In cE, we use the formula?
(meaning contradiction) and the connective &,whose semantics is defined only in the contextof default laws (of.
Asher and Morreau 1991b).Intuitively, (A&B) > _1_ means 'A and B are an-tecedents of default rules that lead to a conflictthat can't be resolved'.We use this to represent cases where the infor-mation provided by the clauses ~ and /3 (whichare candidates for attachment) form a Nixon Di-amond.
Let Info(a) be glossed 'the informationInfo is true of the clause a'.
It is an abbreviationfor statements such as fall(max, ea), cause(e~, ep),and so on.
If a Nixon Diamond occurs when at-tempting to attach a to/3 on the basis of infor-mation other than DP, the following holds:?
In fo( ) A ln fo(/3) A^ Zn/oO))&(7., > ?
)We will use ND(a,/3) as a gloss for the aboveschema, and open(7., a) means a is an open clausein the discourse structure 7-; assume that DP(7.
)returns some discourse relation R. So the presen-tational constraint for preserving discourse pat-tern is defined as follows: 4?
Iner t ia :  (Vot)(open(7., a) A ND(a,/3)) >(3a')(open(r, a')  A DP(7.
)(a',/3))The antecedent to Inertia is verified only when allthe information availablc cxcept for the preced-ing discourse pattern--yields a Nixon Diamondin attempting the attachment of/3 at all opennodes.
Inertia thus won't prevent discourse pop-ping, because there a Nixon Diamond is avertedat a higher-level open node.
The model of textprocessing proposed here restricts the kind of in-formation that's relevant during text processing:the discourse pattern is relevant only when allother information is insufficient.
Like MCT, Iner-tia is top-down, in the sense that it relies on ear-lier predictions about other discourse relations,rather than on incoming data; but unlike MCT,the 'theory-laden' predictions are only resortedto if the data seems recalcitrant.6Time SwitchingWe now look at text (2) in detail.
Suppose asbefore that the discourse structure 7- for the firstthree clauses in (2) is (2'), and the task now isto attach 6 (i.e.
John pushed him).
The onlyopen clause is 7, because the previous discourserelations are all Narration.
Moreover, DP(v) isNarration.
As before, a Nixon Diamond formsbetween MCT and the Push Causal Law in at-tempting to attach 6 to 3'- Where Area is theantecedent to MCT, and Apcl the antecedent tothe Push Causal Law substituted with 7 and 6:4Inertia features an embedded default connective.
Onlytwo  nonmonotonic logics can express this: Circumscrip-tion and Or..?
Area A Apa A ((Apct&Ama) > I)So ND(7,8) is verified, and with it, the antecedentto Inertia; substituting in the Inertia schema thevalue of DP(r), the Nixon Diamond, and the openclauses yields the following:?
Inert ia  for (2):(Area A Apa A ((Apet&Ama) > .L)) >Narration(7 , 6)The antecedent toInertia entails that of MaintainTrajectory (Area) and that of Push Causal Law(Apcz).
In cE the most specific law wins.
So thediscourse context in this case determines the re-lation between the fall and the push: it is Narra-lion.
Hence even though WK yields a causal pref-erence for the pushing causing the falling, giventhe discourse context in which the pushing andfalling are described in (2), Narration is inferredafter all, and so the falling precedes the push.In this way, we can represent the presentational,and domain-specific, information that must bebrought o bear to create a time switch.
5Amel io ra t ionNow consider texts (3) and (4).
A Nixon Dia-mond formed between Narration, States Overlapand the Win Law in the analysis of (3) above,leading to incoherence.
Now consider attachingthe same clauses (4e) and (4f).
(4) a.b.
?.d.e.f.g.Max got up early yesterday.He had a little bite to eat.He had a light workout.He started the tournament in good form.He won the race in record time.He was home with the cup.He celebrated until late into the evening.Given the discourse (4a-e), (4e) is the only openclause to which (4f) can attach.
Moreover, asin (3), attempting to attach (4f) to (4e) resultsin a Nixon Diamond.
So the antecedent to Iner-tia is verified.
DP delivers Narration, since thediscourse context is narrative.
So (4e-f) is in-terpreted as a narrative.
Compare this with (3),5If a speaker-writer wanted to avoid this contextualinference pattern, and sustain the non-iconic reading, thenthey could switch to the pluperfect, for example.where no discourse relation was inferred, leadingto incoherence.Inertia enables discourse context o establishcoherence between sentence pairs that, in isola-tion, are incoherent.
It would be worrying if Iner-tia were so powerful that it could ameliorate anytext.
But incoherence is still possible: considerreplacing (4f) with (4if):f .
?Mary's hair was black.If world knowledge is coded as intuitions wouldsuggest, hen no common topic can be constructedfor (4e) and (4g); and this is necessary if they areto be attached with Narration or Background--the only discourse relations available given the de-feasible laws that are verified.
Moreover, Inertiawon't improve the coherence in this case becauseit predicts Narration, which because of CommonTopic for Narration cannot be used to attach (4t*)to (4 0 .
So the text is incoherent.Hobbs et al(1990) also explore the effects oflinguistic and causal knowledge on interpretation,using abduction rather than deduction.
Now,Konolige (1991) has shown that abduction andnonmonotonic deduction are closely related; butsince Hobbs et aldon't attempt o treat time-switching and amelioration, direct comparison hereis difficult.
However, the following points are rel-evant.
First, weighted abduction, as a system ofinference, isn't embeddable in CE, and vice versa.Secondly, the weights which guide abduction areassigned to predicates in a context-free fashion.Hobbs et alobserve that this may make the ef-fects of context hard to handle, since 'the abduc-tion scheme attempts to make global judgementson the basis of strictly local information' \[p48\].7ConclusionWe examined instances of two types of contextualconstraint on current clause attachment.
Thesewere Maintain Causal Trajectory, a domain con-straint; and Inertia, a presentational constraint.We argued that domain constraints seemed insuf-ficient, but that presentational constraints couldconstructively interact with them.
This interac-tion then explains the two discourse interpreta-tion phenomena we started out with.
Context canswitch round the order of events; and it can ame-liorate an otherwise incoherent interpretation.Both of the constraints allow predictions aboutnew discourse relations to be driven from previ-ous predictions.
But MCT simply adds its predic-tion to the data-driven set from which the logicchooses, whereas discourse pattern and Inertiaare only relevant o interpretation when the logiccan otherwise find no discourse relation.This formalisation has also raised a number ofquestions for future investigation.
For example,the discourse pattern (or Hobbsian 'genre') func-tion is important; but how much of the precedingdiscourse structure should the DP function takeas input?
How do we establish--and improve--the linguistic coverage?
What is the relation be-tween communicative intentions and contextualconstraints?
How do we actually implement con-textual constraints in a working system?The idea of contextual constraints is a famil-iar and comfortable one.
In this respect, we havemerely provided one way of formally pinning itdown.
Naturally, this requires a background log-ical theory of discourse structure, and we haveused DICE, which has its own particular set of dis-course relations and implicature patterns.
How-ever, the process of logically specifying the con-straints has two important and general benefits,independent of the particular formalisation wehave offered.
First, it demands precision and uni-formity in the statement both of the new con-straints, and of the other knowledge sources usedin interpretation.
Secondly, it permits a program-independent assessment of the consequences ofthe general idea of contextual constraints.ReferencesAsher, Nicholas \[in press\] Reference to Abstract Ob-jects in English: A Philosophical Semantics for Nat-ural Language Metaphysics.
Dordrecht: Kluwer Aca-demic Publishers.Asher, Nicholas and Morreau, Michael \[1991\] Com-mon Sense Entailment: A Modal Theory of Non-monotonic Reasoning.
In Proceedings of the 1Pth In-ternational Joint Conference on Artiflcial Intelligence.Caenepeel, Mimo \[1991\] Event Structure versusDiscourse Coherence.
In Proceedings of the Work-shop on Discourse Coherence, Edinburgh, 4-6 April,1991.Grosz, Barbara and Sidner, Candy \[1986\] Atten-tion, Intentions, and the Structure of Discourse.
Com-putational Linguistics, 12, 175-204.Hobbs, Jerry \[1979\] Coherence and Coreference.Cognitive Science, 3, 67-90.Hobbs, Jerry \[1985\] On the Coherence and Struc-ture of Discourse.
Report No.
CSLI-85-37, Centerfor the Study of Language and Information.Hobbs, Jerry, Stickel, Martin, Appelt, Doug andMartin, Paul \[1990\] Interpretation asAbduction.
Tech-nical Note No.
499, Artificial Intelligence Center, SRIInternational, Menlo Park.Kamp, Hans \[1981\] A theory of truth and semanticrepresentation.
I  Groenendijk, :i.
A. G., Janssen, T.M.
V. and Stokhof, M. B. :i.
(eds.)
Formal Methodsin the Study of Language, Volume 136, pp277-322.Amsterdam: Mathematical Centre Tracts.Konolige, Kurt \[1991\] Abduction vs. Closure inCausal Theories.
Technical Note No.
505, ArtificialIntelligence Center, SRI International, Menlo Park.Lascarides, Alex and Asher, Nicholas \[1991a\] Dis-course Relations and Defensible Knowledge.
In Pro-eeedings of the ~gth Annual Meeting of Associationfor Computational Linguistics, pp55-63.Lascarides, Alex and Asher, Nicholas \[1991b\] Dis-course Relations and Common Sense Entailment.
D?-XI~A deliverable 2.5B, available from Centre for Cog-nitive Science, University of Edinburgh.Lascarides, Alex and Oberlander,.
:ion \[1992a\] Tem-poral Coherence and Defensible Knowledge.
Theoret-ical Linguistics, 18.Lascarides, Alex and Oberlander, Jon \[1992b\] Ab-ducing Temporal Discourse.
In Dale, R. et al(eds.
)Aspects of Automated Natural Language Generation,pp167-182.
Berlin: Springer-Verlag.Polanyi, Livia and Scha, Remko \[1984\] A Syntac-tic Approach to Discourse Semantics.
In Proceedingsof the $$nd Annual Meeting of the Association forComputational Linguistics, pp413-419.Polanyi, Livia \[1985\] A Theory of Discourse Struc-ture and Discourse Coherence.
In Papers from theGeneral Session at the Twenty-First Regional Meet-ing of the Chicago Linguistics Society, pp 25-27.Oberlander, :Ion and Lascarides, Alex \[1992\] Pre-venting False Temporal Implicatures: Interactive De-faults for Text Generation.
In Proceedings of COL-ING92.Scha, Remko and Polanyi, Livia \[1988\] An aug-mented context free grammar.
In Proceedings of the$$th Annual Meeting of the Association for Compu-tational Linguistics, pp573-577.Sibun, Penelope \[1992\] Generating Text withoutTrees.
To appear in Computational Intelligence: Spe-cial Issue on Natural Language Generation, 8.Thompson, Sandra and Mann, William \[1987\] Rhe-torical Structure Theory: A Framework for the Anal-ysis of Texts.
In IPRA Papers in Pragmatics, 1,pp79-105.8
