RIGHT ASSOCIAT ION REVIS ITED *Michael  NivDepartment  of  Computer  and Informat ion ScienceUnivers i ty o f  Pennsy lvaniaPhi ladelphia, PA, USAniv@linc, cis.upenn.eduAbstractConsideration of when Right Association works andwhen it fails lead to a restatement of this parsing prin-ciple in terms of the notion of heaviness.
A computa-tional investigation of a syntactically annotated corpusprovides evidence for this proposal and suggest circum-stances when RA is likely to make correct attachmentpredictions.1 IntroductionKimball (1973) proposes the parsing strategy of RightAssociation (RA).
RA resolves modifiers attachment am-biguities by attaching at the lowest syntactically per-missible position along the right frontier.
Many au-thors (among them Wilks 1985, Schubert 1986, Whit-temore et al 1990, and Weischedel et al 1991) in-corporate RA into their parsing systems, yet none relyon it solely, integrating it instead with disambiguationpreferences derived from word/constituent/concept o-occurrence based.
On its own, RA performs rather well,given its simplicity, but it is far from adequate: Whitte-more et al evaluate RA's performance on PP attachmentusing a corpus derived from computer-mediated dialog.They find that RA makes correct predictions 55% of thetime.
Weischedel et al, using a corpus of news sto-ries, report a 75% success rate on the general case ofattachment using a strategy Closest Attachment whichis essentially RA.
In the work cited above, RA plays arelatively minor role, as compared with co-occurrencebased preferences.The status of RA is very puzzling, consider:.
(1) a. John said that Bill left yesterday.b.
John said that Bill will leave yesterday.
"I wish to thank Bob Frank, Beth Ann Hockey, Yonng-Snk Lee,Mitch Marcus, Ellen Prince, Phil Resnik, Robert Rubinoff, MarkSteedman, and the anonymous referees for their helpful suggestions.This research as been supported by the following grants: DARPAN00014-90-J-1863, ARt  DAAL03-89-C-0031, NSF IRI 90-16592,Ben Franklin 91S.30"/8C-1.285(2) In China, however, there isn't likely to be anysilver lining because the economy remains guidedprimarily by the state.
(from the Penn Treebank corpus of Wall StreetJournal articles)On the one hand, many naive informants do not see theambiguity of la and are often confused by the putativelysemantically unambiguous lb - a strong RA effect.
Onthe other hand (2) violates RA with impunity.
What isit that makes RA operate so strongly in 1 but disappearin 2?
In this paper I argue that it is an aspect of thedeclarative linguistic ompetence that is operating here,not a principle of parsing.2 HeavinessQuirk et al (1985) define end weight as the ten-dency to place material with more information contentafter material with less information content.
This notionis closely related with end focus which is stated in termsof importance of the contribution of the constituent, (notmerely the quantity of lexical material.)
These two prin-ciples operate in an additive fashion.
Quirk et al useheaviness to account for a variety of phenomena, mongthem:?
genitive NPs: the shock of his resignation,* his resignation's shock.?
it-extraposition: It bothered me that she leftquickly.
?
That she left quickly bothered me.Heaviness clearly plays a role in modifier attach-ment, as shown in table 1.
My claim is that what iswrong with sentences such as (1) is the violation, in thehigh attachment, of the principle of end weight.
Whileviolations of the principle of end weight in unambigu-ous sentences (e.g.
those in table 1) cause little grief,as they are easily accommodated by the hearer, the on-line decision process of disambiguationjcould well bemuch more sensitive to small differences in the degreeof violation.
In particular, it would seem that in (1)b,John sold it today.John sold the newspapers today.John sold his rusty socket-wrench set today.John sold his collection of 45RPM Elvisrecords today.John sold his collection of old newspapers frombefore the Civil War today.John sold today it.John sold today the newspapers.John sold today his rusty socket-wrench set.John sold today his collection of 45RPM Elvisrecords.John sold today his collection of old newspapersfrom before the Civil War.Table I: Illustration of heaviness and word orderthe heaviness-based preference for low attachment has achance to influence the parser before the inference-basedpreference for high attachment.Theprecise definition of heaviness i an open prob-lem.
It is not clear whether end weight and end focus ad-equately capture all of its subtlety.
For the present studyI approximate heaviness by easily computable means,namely the presence of a clause within a given con-stituent.3 A studyThe consequence of my claim is that light adverbialscannot be placed after heavy VP arguments, while heavyadverbials are not subject o such a constraint.
When thespeaker wishes to convey the information in (1)a, thereare other word-orders available, namely,(3) a.
Yesterday John said that Bill left.b.
John said yesterday that Bill left.If the claim is correct hen when a short adverbial modi-fies a VP which contains aheavy argument, he adverbialwill appear either before the VP or between the verb andthe argument.
Heavy adverbials hould be immune fromthis constraint.To verify this prediction, I conducted an investi-gation of the Penn Treebank corpus of about 1 mil-lion words syntactically annotated text from the WallStreet Journal.
Unfortunately, the corpus does not dis-tinguish between arguments and adjuncts - they're bothannotated as daughters of VP.
Since at this time, I donot have a dictionary-based method for distinguishing(VP asked (S when...)) from (VP left (S when...)), mysearch cannot include all adverbials, only those whichcould never (or rarely) serve as arguments.
I thereforerestricted my search to subgroups of the adverbials.1.
Ss whose complementizers participate overwhelm-ingly in adjuncts: after although as because be-fore besides but by despite ven lest meanwhile onceprovided should since so though unless until uponwhereas while.2.
single word adverbials: now however then alreadyhere too recently instead often later once yet previ-ously especially again earlier soon ever jirst indeedsharply largely usually together quickly closely di-rectly alone sometimes yesterdayThe particular words were chosen solely on the basisof frequency in the corpus, without 'peeking' at theirword-order behavior 1.For arguments, I only considered NPs and Ss withcomplementizer that, and the zero complementizer.The results of this investigation appear the following\[able:adverbial:arg typelightheavytotalsingle wordpre-arg posbarg760 399267 51027 404clausalpre-arg post-arg13 5977 4520 642Of 1431 occurrences of single word adverbials, 404(28.2%) appear after the argument.
If we consider onlycases where the verb takes a heavy argument (defined asone which contains an S), of the 273 occurrences, only5 (1.8%) appear after the argument.
This interactionwith heaviness of the argument is statistically significant(X 2 = 115.5,p < .001).Clausal adverbials tend to be placed after the verbalargument: only 20 out of the 662 occurrences of clausaladverbials appear at a position before the argument ofthe verb.
Even when the argument is heavy, clausaladverbials appear on the right: 45 out of a total of 52clausal adverbials (86.5%).
(2) and (4) are two examples of RA-violating sen-tences which I have found.
(4) Bankruptcy specialists ay Mr. Kravis set aprecedent for putting new money in sour LBOsrecently when KKR restructured foundering Sea-man Furniture, doubling KKR's equity slake.To summarize: light adverbials tend to appear be-fore a heavy argument and heavy adverbials tend to ap-pear after it.
The prediction is thus confirmed.1 Each adverbial can appear in at least one position before the argu-ment to the verb (sentence initial, preverb, between verb and argument)and at least one post-verbal-argument position (end of VP, end of S).286RA is at a loss to explain this sensitivity to heavi-ness.
But even a revision of RA, such as the one pro-posectby Schubert (1986) which is sensitive to the sizeof the modifier and of the modified constituent, wouldstill require additional stipulation to explain the apparentconspiracy between a parsing strategy and tendenciesin generator to produce sentences with the word-orderproperties observed above.4 ParsingHow can we exploit he findings above in our design ofpractical parsers?
Clearly RA seems to work extremelywell for single word adverbials, but how about clausaladverbials?
To investigate this, I conducted anothersearch of the corpus, this time considering only ambigu-ous attachment sites.
I found all structures matching thefollowing two low-attached schemata 2low VP attached: \[vp ... \[s * \[vp * adv *\] * \] ...\]low S attached: \[vp ... \[s * adv *\] ...\]and the following two high-attached schematahigh VP attached: \[vp v * \[... \[s \]\] adv *\]high S attached: Is * \[... \[vp ... \[s \]\]\] adv * \]The results are summarized in the following table:adverb-type low-attached high-att.
% high.single word 1116 10 0.8%clausal 817 194 19,2%As expected, with single-word adverbials, RA is al-most always right, failing only 0.8% of the time.
How-ever, with clausal adverbials, RA is incorrect almost oneout of five times.5 Toward a Meaning-based ac-count of HeavinessAt the end of section 3 I stated that a declarative ac-count of the ill-formedness of a heavy argument fol-lowed by a light modifier is more parsimonious thanseparate accounts for parsing preferences and generationpreferences.
I would like to suggest that it is possible toformalize the intuition of 'heaviness' in terms of an as-pect of the meaning of the constituents involved, namelytheir givenness in the discourse.Given entities tend to require short expressions (typ-ically pronouns) for reactivation, whereas new entitiestend to be introduced with more elaborated expressions.2By * I mean match 0 or more daughters.
By Ix ... \[y \]\] Imean constituent x contains constituent y as a rightmost descendant.By \[x ... \[y \] ... \] I mean constituent x contains constituent y as adescendant.287In fact, it is possible to manipulate heaviness by chang-ing the context.
For example, (1)b is natural in thefollowing dialog z (when appropriately intoned)A: John said that Bill will leave next week, and thatMary will go on sabbatical in September.B: Oh really?
When announce all this?A: He said that Bill will leave yesterday, and he toldus about Mary's sabbatical this morning.6 ConclusionI have argued that the apparent variability in the applica-bility of Right Association can be explained if we con-sider the heaviness of the constituents involved.
I havedemonstrated that in at least one written genre, lightadverbials are rarely produced after heavy arguments -precisely the configuration which causes the strongestRA-type effects.
This demarcates a subset of attach-ment ambiguities where it is quite profitable to use RAas an approximation of the human sentence processor.The work reported here considers only a subset ofthe attachment data in the corpus.
The corpus itself rep-resents avery narrow genre of written discourse.
For thecentral claim to be valid, the findings must be replicatedon a corpus of naturally occurring spontaneous speech.A rigorous account of heaviness i also required.
Theseawait further esearch.References\[1\] Kimball, John.
Seven Principles of Surface StructureParsing.
Cognition 2(1).
1973.\[2\] Quirk, Randolph, Sidney Greenbaum, GeoffreyLeech and Jan Svartvik.
A Comprehensive Grammar ofthe English Language.
Longman.
London.
1985.\[3\] Schubert, Lenhart.
Are there Preference Trade-offsin Attachment Decisions?
AAAI-86.\[4\] Wilks Yorick.
Right Attachment and Preference Se-mantics.
ACL-85\[5\] Weischedel, Ralph, Damaris Ayuso, R. Bobrow,Sean Boisen, Robert Ingria, and Jeff Palmucci.
PartialParsing: A Report on Work in Progress.
Proceedings ofthe DARPA Speech and Natural Language Workshop.1991.\[6\] Whittemore, Greg, Kathleen Ferrara, and HansBrunner.
Empirical study of predictive powers of sim-ple attachment schemes for post-modifier prepositionalphrases.
ACL-90.sI am grateful to EUen Prince for a discussion ofthis issue.
