CONNECTION RELAT IONS AND QUANTIF IER  SCOPELong-in LateckiUniversity of HamburgDepartment ofComputer ScienceBodenstedtstr~ 16,2000 Hamburg 50, Germanye-mail: latecki@rz.informatik.uni-hamburg.dbp.deABSTRACTA formalism will be presented in thispaper which makes it possible to realise theidea of assigning only one scope-ambiguousrepresentation to a sentence that is ambiguouswith regard to quantifier scope.
The scopedeterminat ion results in extending thisrepresentation with additional context andworld knowledge conditions.
If there is noscope determining information, the formalismcan work further with this scope-ambiguousrepresentation.
Thus scope information doesnot have to be completely determined.0.
INTRODUCTIONMany natural language sentences havemore than one possible reading with regard toquantifier scope.
The  most widely usedmethods for scope determination generate allpossible readings of a sentence with regard toquantifier scope by applying all quantifierswhich occur in the sentence in allcombinatorically possible sequences.
Thesemethods do not make use of the inner structureand meaning of a quantifier.
At best,quantif iers are constrained by externalconditions in order to eliminate some scoperelations.
The best known methods are:determination f scope in LF in GB (May 1985),Cooper Storage (Cooper 1983, Keller 1988) andthe algor i thm of Hobbs and Shieber(Hobbs/Shieber 1987).
These methods assign,for instance, six possible readings to a sentencewith three quantifiers.
Using these methods, asentence must be disambiguated in order toreceive a semantic representation.
This meansthat a scope-ambiguous sentence necessarilyhas several semantic representations, since theformalisms for the representation do not allowfor scope-ambiguity.It is hard to imagine that human beingsdisambiguate scope-ambiguous sentences in thesame way.
The generation of all possiblecombinations of sequences of quantifiers andthe assignment of these sequences to variousreadings eems to be cognitively inadequate.The problem becomes even more complicatedwhen natural language quantifiers can beinterpreted distr ibut ively as well ascollectively, which can also lead to furtherreadings.
Let us take the following sentencefrom Kempson/Cormack (1981) as an example:Two examiners marked six scripts.The two quantifying noun phrases can inthis case be interpreted either distributivelyor collectively.
The quantifier two examinerscan have wide scope over the quantifier sixscripts, or vice versa, which all in all can leadto various readings.
Kempson and Cormackassign four possible readings to this sentence,241Davies (1989) even eight.
(A detai leddiscussion will follow.)
No one, however, willmake the claim that people will first assignall possible representations with regard to thescope of the quantifiers and their distribution,and  wi l l  then  e l iminate  cer ta ininterpretations according to the context; butthis is today's  s tandard procedure  inlinguistics.
In many cases, it is also almostimpossible to determine a preferred reading.The difficulties that people have when theyare forced to disambiguate such sentences (toexplicate all possible readings) point to thefact that people only assign an under-determined scope-ambiguous representation inthe first place.Such a representation of the examplesentence would only contain the informationthat we are dealing with a marking-relationbetween examiners and scripts, and that weare always dealing with two examiners andsix scripts.
This representation does not containany information about scope.
On the basis ofthis representation e may in a given contextderive a representation with a determinedscope.
But it may also be the case that thisinformation is sufficient in order to understandthe sentence if no scope-defining information isgiven in the context, since in many cases humanbeings do not disambiguate such sentences atall.
They use underdetermined,  scopelessinterpretations, because their knowledge oftenneed not be so precise.
If a disambiguation iscarried out, then this process is done in a verynatural way on the basis of context and worldknowledge.
This points to the assumption thatscope determinat ion by human beings isperformed on a semantic level and is deducedon the basis of acquired knowledge.I will present a formalism which works ina similar way.
This formalism will also showthat it is not necessary to work with manysequences of quantifiers in order to determinethe various readings of a sentence with regardto quantifier scope.Within this formalism it is possible torepresent an ambiguous sentence with anambiguous representation which need not bedisambiguated, but can be disambiguated atalater stage.
The readings can either bespecified more clearly by giving additionalconditions, or they can be deduced from thebasic ambiguous reading by inference.
Here,the inner structure and the meaning ofquantifiers play an important role.
The processof disambiguation can only be performed whenaddit ional information that restricts thenumber of possible readings is available.
As anexample of such information, I will treatanaphoric relations.Intuit ively speaking, the di f ferencebetween ass igning an under terminedrepresentation to an ambiguous entence andassigning a disjunction of all possible readingsto this sentence corresponds to the differencebetween the following statements*:"Peter owns between 150 and 200 books.
"and"Peter owns 150 or 151 or 152 or ... or 200 books.
"It goes wi thout  saying that bothstatements are equivalent, since we canunderstand "150 or 151 or ... or 200" as a precisespecification of "between 150 and 200".Nevertheless, there are procedural differencesin processing the two pieces of information;and there are cognitive differences for humanbeings, since we would never explicitly utterthe second sentence.
If we could represent"between 150 and 200" directly by a simpleformula and not by giving a disjunction of 51elements, then we may certainly gain greatprocedural and representational advantages.The deduction of readings in semantics doesnot of course exclude a consideration ofsyntactic restrictions.
They can be importedinto the semantics, for example by passingsyntactic information with special indices, as* The comparison stems from ChristopherHabel.242described in Latecki (1991).
Nevertheless, inthis paper I will abstain from taking syntacticrestrictions into consideration.1.
SCOPE-AMBIGUOUSREPRESENTATION AND SCOPEDETERMINATIONThe aims of the representation presentedin this paper are as follows:1.
Assigning an ambiguous semanticrepresentation to an ambiguous sentence (withregard to quantifier scope and distributivity),from which further readings can later beinferred.2.
The connections between the subject andobjects of a sentence are explicitly representedby relations.
The quantifiers (noun phrases)constitute r strictions on the domains of theserelations.3.
Natural language sentences have morethan one reading with regard to quantifierscope (and distributivity), but these readingsare not independent of one another.
The targetrepresentation makes the logical dependenciesof the readings easily discernible.4.
The construction of complex discoursereferents for anaphoric processes requires theconstruction of complex sums of existingdiscourse referents.
In conventionalapproaches, this can lead to a combinatoricalexplosion (cf.
Eschenbach etal.
1989 and 1990).In the representation which is presented here,the discourse referents are immediatelyavailable as domains of the relations.Therefore, we need not construe any complexdiscourse referents.
Sometimes we have tospecify a discourse referent in more detail,which in turn can lead to a reduction in thenumber of possible readings.I now present the formalism.The representational language used here issecond-order p edicate logic.
However, I willmainly use set-theoretical notation (whichcan be seen as an abbreviation of thecorresponding otation of second-order logic).
Ichoose this notation because it points to thesemantic ontent of the formulas and is thusmore intuitive.Let R ~ XxY be a relation, that means, asub-set of the product of the two sets X and Y.The domains of R will be called Dom R andRange R, withDom R={x~ X: 3y~ Y R(x,y)} andRange R={y~ Y: 3x~ X R(x,y)}.I make the explicit assumption here thatall relations are not empty.
(This assumptiononly serves in this paper to make the examplessimpler.
)In the formalism, a verb is represented byarelation whose domain is defined by thearguments of verbs.
Determiners constituterestrictions on the domains of the relation.These restrictions correspond to the role ofdeterminers in Barwise's and Cooper's theoryof generalized quantifiers (Barwise andCooper 1981).
This means for the followingsentence:(1.1) Every boy saw a movie.that there is a relation of seeing between boysand movies.In the formal notation of second-order logicwe can describe this piece of information asfollows:(1.1.a) 3X2 (Vxy (X2(x,y) ~ Saw(x,y) &Boy(x) & M0vie(y) ))X2 is a second-order variable over thedomain of the binary predicates; and Saw,Boy, and Movie are second-order constantswhich represent a general relation of seeing,the set of all boys, and the set of all movies,respectively.
We will abbreviate the aboveformula by the following set-theoreticalformula:240(1.1.b) 3saw (saw ~ Boy x Movie)In this formula, we view saw as a sortedvariable of the sort of the binary seeing-relations.
The variable saw corresponds to thevariable X2 in (1.1.a).
(1.1.b) describes an incomplete semanticrepresentation of sentence (1.1).
Part of thecertain knowledge that does not determinescope in the case of sentence (1.1) is also theinformation that all boys are involved in therelation, which is easily describable as:Dom saw=Boy.
We obtain this informationfrom the denotation of the determiner every.In this way we have arrived at the scope-ambiguous representation f (1.1):(1.1.c) 3saw (saw ~ Boy x Movie &Dom saw=Boy)It may be that the information presentedin (1.1.c) is sufficient for the interpretation ofsentence (1.1).
A precise determination ofquantifier scope need not be important at all,since it may be irrelevant whether each boysaw a different movie (which corresponds tothe wide scope of the universal quantifier) orwhether all boys saw the same movie (whichcorresponds to the wide scope of theexistential quantifier).Classic procedures  will in this caseimmediate ly  generate two readings withdefinite scope relations, whose notations inpredicate logic are given below.
(1.2.a) Vx(boy(x) --~ 3y(movie(y) & saw(x,y)))(1.2.b) 3y(movie(y) & Vx(boy(x) --~ saw(x,y)))We can also obtain these representations iour formalism by simply adding new conditionsto (1.1.c), which force the disambigiuation of(1.1.c) with regard to quantifier scope.
Toobtain reading (1.2.b), we must come to knowthat there is only one movie, which can beformaly writen by I Range saw I =1, where I .
Idenotes the cardinality function.
To obtainreading (1.2.a) from (1.1.c), we do not need anynew information, since the two formulas areequivalent.
This situation is due to the factthat (1.2.b) implies (1.2.a), which means that(1.2.b) is a special case of (1.2.a).
This relationcan be easly seen by comparing the resultingformulas, which correspond to readings (1.2.a)and (1.2.b):(1.3.a) 3saw (saw c Boy x Movie &Dom saw=Boy)(1.3.b) 3saw (saw ~ Boy x Movie &Dom saw=Boy & I Range saw I =1)So, we have (1.3.b) => (1.3.a).As I have stated above, however, it is notvery useful to disambiguate representation(1.1.c) immediately.
It makes more sense toleave representation (1.1.c) unchanged forfurther processing, since it may be that in thedevelopment a new condition may appearwhich determines the scope.
For instance, wecan obtain the additional condition in (1.3.b),when sentence (1.1) is followed by a sentencecontaining a pronoun refering to a movie, as insentence (1.4).
(1.4) It was "Gone with the Wind".Since it refers to a movie, the image of thesaw-relation (a subset of the set of movies) cancontain only one element.
Thus, the resolutionof the reference results in an extension ofrepresentation (1.1.c) by the conditionI Range saw I = 1.
Therefore, we get in this caseonly one reading (1.3.b) as a representation fsentence (1.1), which corresponds towide scopeof the existential quantifier.
Thus in thecontext of (1.4) we have disambiguatedsentence (1.1) with regard to quantifier scopewithout having first generated all possiblereadings (in our case these were (1.2.a) and(1.2.b)).244Let us now assume that sentence (1.5)follows (1.1).
(1.5) All of them were made by Walt DisneyStudios.Syntactic theories alone are of no helphere for finding the correct discourse referentfor them in sentence (1.1), since there is nonumber agreement between them and a movie.The plural noun them, however, refers to allmovies the boys have seen.
This causes greatproblems for standard anaphora theories andplural theories, since there is no explicit objectof reference to which them could refer (cf.Eschenbach et al 1990; Link 1986).
Thus, theusual procedure would be to construe a complexreference object as the sum of all movies theboys have seen.
With my representation, wedo not need such procedures because thediscourse referents are always available,namely as domains of the relations.
In thecontext of (1.1) and (1.5), the pronoun them(just as it in (1.4)) refers to the image of therelation saw, which additionally serves thepurpose of determining the quantifier scope.Here, just as in the preceding cases, therepresentation (1.1.c) has to be seen as the"starting representat ion" of (1.1).
Theinformation that them is a plural noun isrepresented by the condition IRange saw I > 1,which in tu rn  leads to the fol lowingrepresentation:(1.6) 3saw (saw ~ BOy x Movie &Dom saw=Boy & I Range saw I >1)The representation (1.6) is not ambiguouswith regard to quantifier scope.
The universalquantifier has wide scope over the wholesentence, due to the condition IRange saw I > 1.The reading presented in (1.6) is a furtherspecification of (1.3.a), which at the sametime excludes reading (1.3.b).
Thus (1.6)contains more information that formula(1.2.a), which is equivalent to (1.3.a).A classical scope determining system canonly choose one of the readings (1.2.a) and(1.2.b).
However, if it chooses (1.2.a), it willnot win any new information, since (1.2.b) is aspecial case of (1.2.a).
So, quantif ier scope cannot be completely determined by such a system.In order to indicate further advantages ofthis representation formalism, let us take alook at the following sentence (cf.
Link 1986):(1.7) Every boy saw a different movie.Its representation is generated in the sameway as that of (1.1), the only difference beingthat the word different carries addit ionalinformation about the relation saw.
differentrequires that the relat ion be injective.Therefore, the formula (1.1.c) is extended bythe condition 'saw is 1-1'.
The formula (1.8)thus represents the only reading of sentence(1.7), in wh ich  scope is complete lydetermined; the universal quantifier has widescope.
(1.8) 3saw (saw ~ Boy x Movie &Dom saw=Boy & saw is 1-1)2.
SCOPE-AMBIGUOUSREPRESENTATION FORSENTENCES WITH NUMERICQUANTIF IERSSo far, I have not stated exactly how therepresentation f sentence (1.1) was generated.In order to do so, let us take an examplesentence with numeric quantifiers:(2.1) Two examiners marked six scripts.It is certainly not a new observation thatthis sentence has many interpretations withregard to quantifier scope and distributivity,which can be summarized to a few mainreadings.
However,  their exact number  iscontroversial.
While Kempson and Cormack245(1981) assign four readings to this sentence (seealso Lakoff 1972), Davies (1989) assigns eightreadings to it.
I quote here the readings from(Kempson/Cormack 1981):Uniformising:Replace "(Vx~ Xn)(3Y)" by "(3Y)(Vx~ Xn)"10 There were two examiners, and each ofthem marked six scripts (subject noun phrasewith wide scope).
This interpretation could betrue in a situation with two examiners and 12scripts.20 There were six scripts, and each of thesewas marked by two examiners (object nounphrase with wide scope).
This interpretationcould be true in a situation with twelveexaminers and six scripts.30 The incomplete group interpretation:Two examiners as a group marked agroup of sixscripts between them.40 The complete group interpretation: Twoexaminers each marked the same set of sixscripts.Kempson and Cormack represent hesereadings with the help of quantifiers over setsin the following way:10 (3X2)(Vx~ X2)(3S6)(Vs~ S6)Mxs20 (3S6)(Vs~ S6)(3X2)(Vx~ X2)Mxs30 (3X2)(3S6)(Vx~ X2)(Vs~ S6)Mxs40 (3X2)(3S6)(Vx~ X2)(3s~ S6)Mxs &(Vs~ $6)(3x~ X2)MxsHere, X 2 is a sorted variable whichdenotes a two-element set of examiners, and S 6is a sorted variable that denotes a six-elementset of scripts.Kempson and Cormack derive thesereadings from an initial formula in theconventional way by changing the order anddistributivity of quantifiers.
This fact isdiscernible from their derivational rules andthe following quotation:Generalising:Replace "(3x~ Xn)" by "(Vx~ Xn)""What we are proposing, then, as analternat ive to the convent ionalambiguity account is that all sentencesof a form corresponding to (42) \[here:2.1\] have a single logical form, whichis then subject to the procedure ofgeneralising and uniformising to yieldthe various interpretations of thesentence in use."
(Kempson/Cormack(1981), p. 273)Only in reading 40 the relation betweenexaminers and scripts is complete lycharacterized.
For the other formulas thereare several possible assignments betweenexaminers and scripts which make theseformulas valid.At this point I want to make an importantobservation, namely that these four readingsare not totally independent of one another.
Iam, however, not concerned with logicalimplications between these readings alone, butrather with the fact that there is a piece ofinformation which is contained in all of thesereadings and which does not necessitate adeterminated quantifier scope.
This is theinformation which - cognitively speaking - canbe extracted from the sentence by a listenerwithout determining the quantifier scope.
Thedifficulties which people have when they areforced to disambiguate a sentence containingnumeric quantifiers uch as (2.1) without aspecific ontext point to the fact that only sucha scopeless representation is assigned to thesentence in the first place.
On the basis of thisrepresentation e can then, within a givencontext, derive a representation with adefinite scope.
We can describe the scopelesspiece of information of sentence (2.1), whichall readings have in common, as follows.
Weknow that we are dealing with a marking-246relation between examiners and scripts, andthat we are always dealing with twoexaminers or with six scripts.
In the formalismdescribed in this paper this piece ofinformation is represented as:(2.2) 3mark ( mark c Examiner x Script &(IDommarkl=2 v IRangemarkl--6))It may be that this piece of information issufficient in order to understand sentence (2.1).If there is no scope-determining i formation ithe given context, people can understand thesentence just as well.
If, for example, we hearthe following utterance,(2.3) In preparation for our workshop, twoexaminers corrected six scripts.it may be without any relevance what therelation between examiners and scripts isexactly like.
The only important thing may bethat the examiners corrected the scripts andthat we have an idea about the number ofexaminers and the number of scripts.Therefore, we have assigned an under-determined scope-ambiguous representation(2.2) to sentence (2.1), which constitutes themaximum scopeless content of information ofthis sentence.
The lower line of (2.2) representsa scope-neutral part of the information whichis contained in the meaning of the quantifierstwo examiners and six scripts.
This factindicates that the meaning of a quantifier hasto be structured internally, since a quantifiercontains scope-neutral as well as scope-determining information.
Distributivity is anexample of scope-determining i formation.Then what happens in a context whichcontains cope-determining formation?
Thiscontext just provides restrictions on thedomains of the relation.
These restrictions inturn contribute to scope determination.
Wemay, for instance, get to know in a givencontext hat there were twelve scripts in all,which excludes the condition I Range mark I=6in the disjunction of (2.2).
We then know forcertain that there were two examiners andthat each of them marked six different scripts.Consequently, the quantifier two examinersacquires wide scope, and we are dealing with adistributive reading.
Thus, in this context wehave completely disambiguated sentence (2.1)with regard to quantifier scope; and thatsimply on the basis of the scopeless,incomplete representation (2.2).
On the otherhand, standard procedures (the mostimportant were listed at the beginning) firsthave to generate all representations of thissentence by considering all combinatoricallypossible scopes together with distributive andcollective readings.3.
CONCLUDING REMARKSA cognitively adequate method fordealing with sentences that are ambiguouswith regard to quantifier scope has beendescribed in this paper.
An underdeterminedscope-ambiguous representation is assigned toa scope-ambiguous sentence and then extendedby additional conditions from context andworld knowledge, which further specify themeaning of the sentence.
Scope determinationin this procedure can be seen as a mere by-product.
The quantifier scope is completelydetermined when the representation whichwas generated in this way corresponds to aninterpretation with a fixed scope.
Of course,this only works if there is scope-determininginformation; if not, one continues to work withthe scope-ambiguous representation.I use the language of second-orderpredicate logic here, but not the whole second-order logic, since I need deduction rules forscope derivation, but not deduction rules forsecond-order p edicate logic (which cannot becompletely stated).
One could even use theformalism for scope determination alone andthen translate the obtained readings into af i rst-order formalism.
However ,  theformalism lends itself very easily to247representation a d processing of the derivedsemantic knowledge as well.ACKNOWLEDGMENTSI would like to thank Christopher Habel,Manfred Pinkal and Geoff Simmons.BIBL IOGRAPHYBarwise, Jon / Cooper, Robin (1981):Generalized Quantifiers and NaturalLanguage.
Linguistics and Philosophy 4,159-219.Cooper, Robin (1983): Quantification andSemantic Theory.
D. Reidel, Dordrecht:Holland.Davies, Martin (1989)~ "Two examiners markedsix scripts."
Interpretations of Numeric-ally Quantified Sentences.
Linguisticsand Philosophy 12, 293-323.Eschenbach, Carola / Habel, Christopher /Herweg, Michael / Rehk/imper, Klaus(1989): Remarks on plural anaphora.Proceedings of the EACL in Manchester,England.Eschenbach, Carola / Habel, Christopher /Herweg, Michael / Rehk/imper, Klaus(1990): Rekonstruktion fiir pluraleDiskursanaphern.
In S. Felix at al.(eds.
): Sprache und Wissen.
West-deutscher Verlag, Opladen.Habel, Christopher (1986): Prinzipien derReferentialit/it.
Imformatik Fach-berichte 122.
Springer-Verlag, Berlin.Habel, Christopher (1986a): Plurals,Cardinalities, and Structures of Deter-mination.
Proceedings ofCOLING-86.Hobbs, Jerry R. / Shieber, Stuart M. (1987): AnAlgorithm for Generating QuantifierScopings.
Computational Linguistics,Volume 13, Numbers 1-2.Kadmon, Nirit (1987): AsymmetricQuantification.
In Groenendijk, J.
/Stokhof, M. / Veltman, F.
(eds.
):Proceedings of the Sixth AmsterdamColloquium.Keller, William R. (1988): Nested CooperStorage: The Proper Treatment ofQuantification in Ordinary NounPhrases.
In U. Reyle and C.
Rohrer(eds.
), Natural Language Parsing andLinguistic Theories, 432-447, D. Reidel,Dordrecht.Kempson, Ruth M. / Cormack, Annabel (1981):Ambiguity and Quantification.Linguistics and Philosophy 4, 259-309.Lakoff, George (1972): Linguistics and NaturalLogic.
In Harman, G. and Davidson, D.(eds.
): Semantics of Natural Language.Reidel, 545-665.Latecki, Longin (1991): An Indexing Techniquefor Implementing Command Relations.Proceedings of the EACL in Berlin.Link, Godehard (1983): The logical analysis ofplurals and mass terms: A lattice-theoretical pproach.
In Baeuerle, R. etal.
(eds.
), Meaning, Use, andInterpretation f Language.
de Gruyter,Berlin, 302-323.Link, Godehard (1986): GeneralizedQuantifiers and Plurals.
In G/irdenfors,P.
(ed.
): Generalized Quantifiers:Studies in Lingusitics and Philosophy.Dordrrecht, The Netherlands, Reidel.May, Robert (1985): Logical form.
Its Structureand Derivation.
Linguistic InquiryMonographs.
The MIT Press: CambridgeMassachusetts.248
