THE REPRESENTATION OF MULTIMODAL USER INTERFACE DIALOGUESUSING DISCOURSE PEGSSusann LuperfoyMITRE Corporation7525 Colshire Blvd.
W418McLean, VA 22102luperfoy@ starbase.mitre.organdATRInterpreting Telephony Research LaboratoriesKyoto, JapanABSTRACTThe three-tiered discourse representation defined in(Luperfoy, 1991) is applied to multimodal human-computer interface (HCI) dialogues.
In the appliedsystem the three tiers are (1) a linguistic analysis(morphological, syntactic, sentential semantic) ofinput and output communicative events includingkeyboard-entered command language atoms, NLstrings, mouse clicks, output ext strings, and outputgraphical events; (2) a discourse model representationcontaining one discourse object, called a peg, for eachconstruct (each guise of an individual) underdiscussion; and (3) the knowledge base (KB)representation f the computer agent's 'belief' systemwhich is used to support i s interpretation procedures.I present evidence to justify the added complexity ofthis three-tiered system over standard two-tieredrepresentations, based on (A) cognitive processes thatmust be supported for any non-idealized ialogueenvironment (e.g., the agents can discuss constructsnot present in their current belief systems), includinginformation decay, and the need for a distinctionbetween understanding a discourse and believing theinformation content of a discourse; (B) linguisticphenomena, in particular, context-dependent NPs,which can be partially or totally anaphoric; and(C) observed requirements of three implemented HCIdialogue systems that have employed this three-tiereddiscourse representation.THE THREE-TIERED FRAMEWORKThis paper argues for a three-tiered computationalmodel of discourse and reports on its use inknowledge based human-computer interface (HCI)dialogue.
The first tier holds a linguistic analysis ofsurface forms.
At this level there is a unique object(called a linguistic object or LO) for each linguisticreferring expression or non-linguistic communicativegesture issued by either participant in the interfacedialogue.
The intermediate tier is the discoursemodel, a tier with one unique object corresponding toeach concept or guise of a concept, being discussed inthe dialogue.
These objects are called pegs afterLandman's theoretical construct (Landman, 1986a).
1The third tier is the knowledge base (KB) thatdescribes the belief system of one agent in thedialogue, namely, the backend system being interfacedto.
Figure 1 diagrams a partitioning of theinformation available to a dialogue processing agent.This partitioning gives rise to the three discourse tiersproposed, and is motivated, in part, by the distinctprocesses that ransfer information between tiers.I-c=::~ ~ DiSCoOUrse IFIGURE 1.
Partitioned Discourse InformationThe linguistic tier is similar to the linguisticrepresentation f Grosz and Sidner (1985) and its LO'sare like Sidner's NP bundles (Sidner, 1979), i.e., bothencode the syntactic and semantic analyses of surfaceforms.
One difference, however, is that NP bundlesspecify database objects directly whereas LOs areinstead "anchored" topegs in the discourse model tierand make no direct connection to entries in the static1The discourse peg functions differently from itsnamesake but the term provides the suitable metaphor(also suggested by Webber): an empty hook on whichto hang properties of the real object.
For morebackground on the Data Semantics framework itself see(Landman 1986b) and (Veltman, 1981).22knowledge representation.
LOs are also likeDiscourse Referents (Karttunen, 1968), DiscourseEntities ((Webber, 1978), (Dahl and Ball, 1990),(Ayuso, 1989), and others), File Cards (Heim, 1982),and Discourse Markers (Kamp, 1981) in at least twoways.
First, they arise from a meaning representationof the surface linguistic form based on a set ofgeneration rules which consider language-specificfeatures, and facts about the logical formrepresentation: quantifier scope assignments,syntactic number and gender markings, distributiveversus collective reading information, ordering ofmodifiers, etc.
Janus (Ayuso, 1989) allows for DE'sintroduced into the discourse context through a non-linguistic (the haptic) channel.
But in Janus, a mouseclick on a screen icon is assigned honorary linguisticstatus via the logical form representation f a definiteNP, and that introduces a new DE into the context.WML, the intensional language used, also includestime and possible world parameters to situate DE's.These innovations are all important attributes ofobjects at what I have called the linguistic tier.Secondly, the discourse constructs listed above allcorrespond either directly (Discourse Referents, FileCards, Discourse Entities of Webber) or indirectlyafter collapsing of referential equivalence classes(Discourse Markers, DE's of Janus) with referents orsurrogates in some representation f the referenceworld, and it is by virtue of this mapping that theyeither are assigned enotations orfail to refer.
While Iam not concerned here with referential semantics Iview this linguistic tier as standing in a similarrelation to the reference world of its surface forms.The pegs discourse model represents he world asthe current discourse assumes it to be only, apart fromhow the description was formulated, apart from thetrue state of the reference world, and apart from howeither participant believes it to be.
This statement issimilar to those of both Landman and Webber.
Thediscourse model is also the locus of the objects ofdiscourse structuring techniques, e.g., both intentionaland attentional structures of Grosz and Sidner (1985)are superimposed on the discourse model tier.
A peghas links to every LO that "mentions" it, thementioning being either verbal or non-verbal andoriginating with either dialogue participant.Pegs, like File Cards, are created on the fly asneeded in the current discourse and amount odynamically defined guises of individuals.
Theseguises differ from File Cards in that they do notnecessarily correspond I:1 to individuals theyrepresent, i.e., a single individual can be treated astwo pegs in the discourse model, if for example thepurpose is to contrast guises such as Superman andClark Kent, without requiring that there also be twoindividuals in the knowledge structure.
In comparingthe proposed representation to those of Heim,Webber, and others it is also helpful to note adifference inemphasis.
Heim's theory of definitenessdefines emantic values for NPs based on their abilityto add new File Cards to the discourse state, their "filechange potential."
Similarly, Webber's goal is todefine the set of DE's justified by a segment of text.Examples of a wide range of anaphoric phenomena areused as evidence of which DEs had to have beengenerated for the antecedent u terance.
Thus, thedefinition of Invoking Descriptions but no labels forsubsequent mention of a DE or discussion of theiraffect on the DE.In contrast, my emphasis is in tracking theserepresentations over the course of a long dialogue; Ihave nothing to contribute to the theory of how theyare originally generated by the logical formrepresentation f a sentence.
I am also concernedwith how the subsequent u terance is processed givena possibly flawed or incomplete r presentation of theprior discourse, a possibly flawed or incompletelinguistic representation f the new utterance, and/or amismatch between KB and discourse.
The purposehere is to manage communicative acts encountered inreal dialogue and, in particular, HCI dialogues inwhich the interpreter is potentially receivinginformation from the other dialogue participant withthe intended result of an altered belief structure.
So Iinclude no discussion of the referential value ofreferring expressions or discourse segments, in termsof truth conditions, possible worlds, or sets ofadmissible models.
Neither is the aim a descriptiverepresentation f the dialogue as a whole; rather, thepurpose is to define the minimal representation f oneagent's egocentric view of a dialogue needed tosupport appropriate behavior of that agent in real-timedialogue interaction.The remainder of this paper argues for theadditional representational complexity of the separatediscourse pegs tier being proposed.
Evidence for thisinnovation is divided into three classes (A) cognitiverequirements for processing dialogue, (B) linguisticphenomena involving context-dependent NPs, and (C)implementation-based arguments.EVIDENCE FOR THREE TIERSA.
COGNITIVE PROCESSING CONSTRAINTSThis section discusses four requirements ofdiscourse representation based on the cognitivelimitations and pressures faced by any dialogueparticipant.1.Incompleteness: The information available to adialogue agent is always incomplete; the beliefsystem, the linguistic interpretation, the priordiscourse representation are partial and potentiallyflawed representations of the world, the input23utterances, and the information content of thediscourse, respectively.
The distinction betweendiscourse pegs and KB objects is important because itallows for a clear separation between what occurs inthe discourse, and what is encoded as beliefs in theKB.
The KB is viewed as a source of informationconsulted by one agent during language processing,not as the locus of referents or referent surrogates.Belief system incompleteness means it is common indialogue to discuss ideas one is unfamiliar with ordoes not believe to be true, and to reason based on apartial understanding of the discourse.
So it oftenhappens that a discourse peg fails to correspond toanything familiar to the interpreting agent.
Therefore,no link to the KB is required or entailed by theoccurrence of a peg in the discourse model.There are two occasions where the interpreter isunable to map the discourse model to the KB, Thefirst is where the class referenced is unfamiliar to theinterpreting agent, e.g., when an unknown commonnoun occurs and the interpreter cannot map to anyclass named by that common oun, e.g., "The picarawalked in."
The second is where the class isunderstood but the particular instance being referencedcannot be identified at the time the NP occurs.
I.e.,the interpreter may either not know of any instancesof the familiar class, Picaras, or it may not be able todetermine which of those picara instances that itknows of is the single individual indicated by thecurrent NP.
The pegs model allows the interpreter toleave the representation in a partial state until furtherinformation arrives; an underspecified peg for theunknown class is created and, when possible, linkedto the appropriate class.
As the dialogue progressessubsequent u terances or inferences add properties tothe peg and clarify the link to the KB which becomesgradually more precise.
But that is a matter betweenthe peg and the KB; the original LO is consideredcomplete at NP processing time and cannot berevisited.2.
Contradiction: Direct conflicts between what anagent believes about he world (the KB) and what theagent understands of the current discourse (thediscourse model) are also common.
Examples includefailed interpretation, misunderstanding, disagreementbetween two negotiating parties, a learning systembeing trained or corrected by the user, a tutorialsystem that has just recognized that the user isconfused, errors, lies, and other hypothetical orcounterfactual discourse situations.
But it is often animportant service of a user interface (UI) to identityjust this sort of discrepancy between its own KBinformation and the user's expressed beliefs.
How the15I responds to recognized conflicts will depend on itsassigned task; a tutoring system may leave its ownbeliefs unchanged and engage the user in aninstructional dialogue whereas a knowledge24acquisition tool might simply correct its internalinformation by assimilating the user's assertion.To summarize 1 and 2, since dialogue in generalinvolves transmission of information the interpretingagent is often unfamiliar with individuals beingspoken about.
In other cases, familiar individualswill receive new, unfamiliar, and/or controversialattributes over the course of the dialogue.
Thirdly, onthe generation side, it is clear that an agent maychoose to produce NL descriptions that do not directlyreflect that agent's belief system (generatingsimplified descriptions for a novice user, testing,game playing, etc.).
In all cases, in order todistinguish what is said from what is believed, KBobjects must not be created or altered as an automaticside effect of discourse processing, nor can the KB berequired to be in a form that is compatible with allpossible input utterances.
In cases of incompletenessor contradiction the underspecified discourse peg holdsa tentative set of properties that highlight salientexisting properties of the KB object, and/or othersthat add to or override properties encoded in the KB.3.
Dynamic Guises: Landman's analysis of identitystatements suggests a model (in a model-theoreticsemantics) that contains pre-defined guises ofindividuals.
In the system I propose, these guises areinstead efined ynamically as needed in the discourseand updated non-monotonically.
These are the pegsin the discourse model.
Grosz (1977) introduced thenotion of focus spaces and vistas in a semantic netrepresentation for the similar purpose of representingthe different perspectives ofnodes in the semantic netthat come into focus and affect the interpretation fsubsequent NPs.
What is in attentional focus inGrosz's ystem and in mine, are not individuals in thestatic belief system but selected views on thoseindividuals and these are unpredictable, defineddynamically as the discourse progresses.
I.e., it isimpossible to know at KB creation time which guisesof known individuals a speaker will present o thediscourse.
My system differs from the semantic netmodel in the separation it posits between staticknowledge and discourse representation; focus spacesare, in effect, pulled out of the static memory andplaced in the discourse model as a smactudng ofpegs.This eliminates the need to ever undo individualeffects of discourse processing on the KB; the entirediscourse model can be studied and either cast awayafter the dialogue or incorporated into the KB by anindependent operation we might call "beliefincorporation."4.
Information Decay: In addition to monotonicinformation growth and non-monotonic changes tothe discourse model, the agent participating in adialogue experiences information decay over thecourse of the conversation.
But information from thelinguistic, discourse, and belief system tiers decays atdifferent rates and in response to different cognitiveforces/limitations.
(1) LOs become old and vanish atan approximately linear rate as a function of timecounted from the point of their introduction i to thediscourse history, i.e., as LOs get older, they fadefrom the discourse and can no longer serve aslinguistic sponsors 2 for anaphors; (2) discourse pegsdecay as a function of attentional focus, so that aslong as an individual or concept is being attended toin the dialogue, the discourse peg will remain ear thetop of the focus stack and available as a potentialdiscourse sponsor for upcoming dependent referringexpressions; (3) decay of static information i the KBis analogous to more general forgetting of storedbeliefs/information which occurs as a result of othercognitive processes, not as an immediate side-effect ofdiscourse processing or the simple passing of time.kinds (signalled by a bare plural NP in English) tosponsor dependent references to indefinite instances.
(Substitute "picaras" for "racoons" in Carlson'sexample to demonstrate he independence of thisphenomenon from world knowledge about he referentof the NP.)
3 This holds for mass or count nouns andapplies in either direction, i.e., the peg for a specificexemplar can sponsor mention of the generic kind.Nancy ate her oatmeal this morning because she heardthat il lowers cholesterol.The two parameters, partial/total dependence andlinguistic/discourse ponsoring, classify all anaphoricphenomena (independently of the three-tieredframework) and yield as one result a characterizationof indefinite NPs as potentially partially anaphoric inexactly the same way that definite NPs are.B.
LINGUISTIC EVIDENCEThis section sketches an analysis of context-dependent NPs to help argue for the separation oflinguistic and discourse tiers.
(Luperfoy, 1991)defines four types of context-dependent NPs and usesthe pegs discourse framework to represent them: adependent (anaphoric) LO must be linguisticallysponsored by another LO in the linguistic tier ordiscourse sponsored by a peg in the discoursemodel and these two categories are subdivided intototal anaphors and partial anaphors.
Totalanaphors are typified by coreferential, (totallydependent), definite pronouns, uch as "himself TM and"he" below, both of which are sponsored by "Karl.
"Karl saw himself in the mirror.
He started to laugh.I stopped the car and when I opened the hoodI sawthat a spark plug wire was missing.The distinction between discourse sponsoring andlinguistic sponsoring, plus the differentialinformation decay rates for the three tiers discussed inSection A, together predict acceptability conditionsand semantic interpretation of certain context-dependent NP forms.
For example, the strict localityof one-anaphoric eferences i predicted by two facts:(a) one-anaphors must always have a linguisticsponsor (i.e., an LO in the linguistic tier).
(b) these linguistic sponsor candidates decay morerapidly than pegs in the discourse model tier.Partial anaphors depend on but do not corefer withtheir sponsors.
Examples of partial anaphors havebeen discussed widely under other labels, byKarttunen, Sidner, Heim, and others, in exampleslike this one from (Karttunen, 1968)I stopped the car and when I opened the hoodl sawthat the radiator was boiling.where knowledge about he world is required in orderto make the connection between dependent andsponsor, and others like Carlson's (1977)In contrast, definite NPs can be discourse sponsored.And the sponsoring peg may have been firstintroduced into the discourse model by a much earlierLO mention and kept active by sustained attentionalfocus.
Thus, discourse- versus linguistic sponsoringhelps explain why definite NPs can reach back todistant segments of the discourse history while one-anaphors cannot.
4Figure 2 illustrates the four possible discourseconfigurations for context-dependent NPs.
The KBinterface is omitted in the diagrams in order to showonly the interaction between linguistic and discourseNancy hates racoons because t.hey ate her corn lastyear.where associating dependent to sponsor equires nospecific world knowledge, only a general discourseprinciple about the ability of generic references to2Discussed innext section.3Compare this partial anaphor to the total anaphoricreference in, Nancy hates racoons because they are notextinct.4For a detailed description of the algorithms foridentifying sponsors and assigning pegs as anchors,for all NP types ee (Luperfoy 1991) and (Luperfoy andRich, 1992).25tiers, and dark arrows indicate the sponsorshiprelation.
In each case, LO-1 is non-anaphoric andmentions Peg-A, its anchor in the discourse model.For the two examples in the top row LO-2 islinguistically sponsored by LO-1.
Discoursesponsorship (bottom row) means that the anaphoricLO-2 depends directly on a peg in the discourse modeland does not require sponsoring by a linguistic form.The left column illustrates total dependence, LO-1 andLO-2 are co-anchored toPeg-A.
Whereas, in partialanaphor cases (fight column), anew peg, Peg-B, getsintroduced into the discourse model by the partiallyanaphoric LO-2.TOTAL ANAPHORA PARTIAL ANAPHORASearch for a button.
Delete it.a button, it.Search for a button.a button, the new iconSearch for all buttons.Display one.all buttons, oneSearch for a button.Delete the labela button the labelFIGURE 2.
Four Possible Discourse ConfigurationsFor Anaphoric NPsThe classification of context-dependence is madeexplicit in the three-tiered discourse representationwhich also distinguishes incidental coreference fromtrue anaphoric dependence.
It supports uniformanalysis of context-dependent NPs as diverse asreflexive pronouns and partially anaphoric indefiniteNPs.
The resulting relationship encodings areimportant for long-term tracking of the fate ofdiscourse pegs.
In File Change Semantics this wouldamount to recording the relation that justifiesaccommodation f the new File Card as a permanentfact about he discourse.Furthermore, relationships between objects atdifferent levels inform each other and allowapplication of standard constraints.
The three tiersallow you to uphold linguistic constraints oncoreference (e.g., syntactic number and genderagreement) at the LO level but mark them asoverridden by discourse or pragmatic constraints at thediscourse model level., i.e.
apparent violations ofconstraints are explained as transfer of control toanother tier where those constraints have nojurisdiction.
In a two-tiered model coreferential LOsmust be equated (or collapsed into one) or else theyare distinct.
Here, the discourse tier is not simply aricher analysis of linguistic tier information or aconflation of equivalence classes of LOs partitionedby referential identity.C.
EVIDENCE BASED ON AN IMPLEMENTED SYSTEMThe discourse pegs approach as been implementedas the discourse component of the Human InterfaceTool Suite (HITS) project (Hollan, et al 1988) of theMCC Human Interface Lab and applied to three userinterface (UI) designs: aknowledge editor for the CycKB (Guha and Lenat, 1990), an icon editor fordesigning display panels for photocopy machines, andan information retrieval (IR) tool for preparing multi-media presentations.
All three UIs are knowledgebased with Cyc as their supporting KB.
An inpututterance is normally a command language operatorfollowed by its arguments.
And an argument can beformulated as an NL string representation f an NP,or as a mouse click on presented screen objects thatstand for desired arguments.
Output utterances can belisted names of Cyc units retrieved from theknowledge base in response to a search query, self-narration statements simultaneous with changes to thescreen display, and repair dialogues initiated by theNL interpretation system.Input and output communicative events of anymodality are captured and represented aspegs in thediscourse model and LOs in the linguistic history sothat either dialogue participant can make anaphoricreference to pegs introduced by the other, while thesource agent of each assertion is retained on theassociated LO.The HITS UIs endeavor to use NL only when theadded expressive power is called for and allow inputmouse clicks and output graphic gestures foroccasions when these less costly modalities aresufficient.
The respective strengths of the various UImodalities are reviewed in (P. Cohen et al, 1989)which reports on a similar effort o construct UIs thatmake maximal benefit of NL by using it inconjunction with other modalities.Two other systems which combine NL and mousegestures, XTRA (Wahlster, 1989) and CUBRICON(Neal, et al, 1989), differ from the current system intwo ways.
First, they take on the challenge ofambiguous mouse clicks, their primary goal being touse the strengths of NL (text and speech) todisambiguate hese deictic references.
In the HITSsystem described here only presented icons can beclicked on and all uninterpretable mouse input isignored.
A second, related difference is theassumption by CUBRICON and XTRA of a closed26world defined by the knowledge base representation fthe current screen state.
This makes it a reasonablestrategy to attempt o coerce any uninterpretablemouse gesture into its nearest approximation from thefinite set of target icons.
In rejecting the closed worldassumption I give up the constraining power it offers,in exchange for the ability to tolerate a partiallyspecified discourse representation that is not fullyaligned with the KB.
In general, NL systems assumea closed world, in part because the task is ofteninformation retrieval or because in order for NL inputto be of use it must resolve to one of a finite set ofobjects that can be acted upon.
Because the HITSsystems intended to generate and receive newinformation from the user, it is not possible to followthe approach taken in Janus for example, and resolvethe NP "a button" to a sole instance of the class#%Buttons in the KB.
Ayuso notes that this does not?
reflect the semantics of indefinite NPs but it is ashortcut that makes sense given the UI taskundertaken.In human-human dialogue many extraneousbehaviors have no intended communicative value(scratching one's ear, picking up a glass, etc.
).Similarly, many UI events detectable by the dialoguesystem are not intended by either agent ascommunicative and should not be included in thediscourse representation, e.g., the user moving themouse cursor across the screen, or the backend systemupdating a variable.
In the implemented system NLand non-NL knowledge sources exchange informationvia the HITS blackboard (R. Cohen et al, 1991) andwhen a knowledge source communicates with the usera statement is put on the blackboard.
Only thosestatements are captured from the blackboard andrecorded in the dialogue.
In this way, all non-communicative events are ignored by the dialoguemanager.Many of the interesting properties of this systemarise from the fact that it is a knowledge-based systemfor editing the same KB it is based on.
The three-tiered representation suits the needs of such a system.The HITS knowledge ditor is itself represented in theKB and the UI can make reference to itself and itscomponents, e.g., #%Inspector3 is the KB unit for apane in the window display and can be referred to inthe UI dialogue.
Secondly, ambiguous reference to aKB unit versus the object in the real world ispossible.
For example, the unit #%Joseph and theperson Joseph are both reasonable r ferents of an NP:e.g., "When was he born?"
requests the value in the#%birthdate slot of the KB unit #%Joseph, whereas"When was it created?"
would access a bookkeepingslot in that same unit.
Finally, the need to refer tounits not yet created or those already deleted wouldoccur in requests uch as, "I didn't mean to deletethem" which require that a peg persist in focus in the27discourse model independent of the status of thecorresponding KB unit.
These example queries arenot part of the implementation but do exemplifyreference problems that motivate use of the three-tiered discourse representation for such systems.The dialogue history is the sequences of input andoutput utterances in the linguistic tier and isstructured according to (Clark and Shaeffer 1987) as alist of contributions each of which comprises apresentation and an acceptance.
This underlyingstructure can be displayed to the user on demand.
Thefollowing example dialogue shows a question-answersequence in which queries are command languageatom followed by NL string or mouse click.user :system:user:system:user :system:user :system:SEARCH FOR a Lisp programmer whospeaks French#%Holm, #%Ebihara, #%Jones, #%Baker.FOLLOWUP one who speaks Japanese#%EbiharaFOLLOWUP her creator#%HolmINSPECT it#%Holm displayed in?~olnspector3Here, output utterances are not true generated Englishbut rather canned text string templates whose blanksare filled in with pointers to KB units.
The wholeoutput utterance gets captured from the HITSblackboard and placed in the discourse history.
Theobjects filling template slots generate LOs anddiscourse pegs which are then used by discourseupdating algorithms to modify the focus stack.
Forexample,output-template:#%Holm displayed in #%Inspector3.causes the introduction of LOs and pegs for #%Holmand #%Inspector3.
Those objects generated as systemoutput can now sponsor anaphoric reference by theuser.A collection of discourse knowledge sources updatedata structures and help interpret context dependentutterances.
In this particular application of the three-tiered representation, context-dependence isexclusively a fact about the arguments to commandssince command names are never context-sensitive.Input NPs are first processed by morphological,syntactic, and semantic knowledge sources, the resultbeing a 'context-ignorant' (sentential) semanticanalysis with relative scope assignments oquantifiersin NPs such as "Every Lisp programmer who owns adog."
This analysis would in principle use the DEgeneration rules of Webber and Ayuso for introducingits LOs.
Discourse knowledge sources use the storeddiscourse representation to interpret context-dependentLO's, including definite pronouns, contrastive one-anaphors, 5 reference with indexical pronouns (e.g.you, my, I, mouse-clicks on the desktop icons), andtotally anaphoric definite NPs.
6 The discoursemodule augments the logical form output of semanticprocessing and passes the result to the pragmaticsprocessor whose task is to translate the logical forminterpretation i to a command in the language of thebackend system, in this case Cycl, the language of theCyc knowledge base system.Productive dialogue includes subdialogues forrepairs, requests for confLrrnations, and requests forclarification (Oviatt et al, 1990).
The implementedmultimodal discourse manager detects one form ofinterpretation failure, namely, when a sponsor cannotbe identified for an input pronoun.
The discoursesystem initiates its own clarification subdialogue andasks the user to select from a set of possible sponsorsor to issue a new NP description as in the exampleuser: EDIT it.system: The meaning of "it" is unclear.Do you mean one of the following?<#%Ebihara> <#%Inspector3>user: (mouse clicks on #%Inspector3)system: #%Inspector3 displayed in #%Inspector3The user could instead type "yes" followed by a mouseclick at the system's further prompting or "no" inwhich case the system prompts for an alternativedescriptive NP which receives from-scratch NLprocessing.
During the subdialogue, pegs for theactual LO <LO-it> (the topic of the subdialogue) andfor the two screen icons for #%Ebihara and#%Inspector3 are in focus in the discourse model.Figure 3 illustrates the arrangement of informationstructures in one multimodal HCI dialogue setting.
7In this example, the user requests creation of a newbutton.
Peg-A represents that hypothetical object.The system responds by (1) creating Button-44, (2)displaying it on the screen, and (3) generating a self-narration statement "Button-44 created."
After thenon-verbal event a followup deictic pronoun or mouseclick, e.g., "Destroy that (button)" or "Destroy<mouse-click on Button-44>," could access the pegdirectly, but a pronominal reference, .g., "Destroy it"would require linguistic sponsoring by the LO from5Luperfoy 1989 defines contrastive one-anaphora asoneof three semantic functions of one-anaphora.6Each anaphoric LO triggers a specialized handier tosearch for candidate sponsors (Rich and Luperfoy,1988).7Exarnples are representative of those of the actualsystem though simplified for exposition.I KB I#%BUTTONS I 3 'Tier / r_..~,._~,~_~ J ~ Backend/ I ~u,~on-4, ~ ( System "~JTier ~ .
.
.
.
.
= E~--E~EI t/user: CREATE a l.~utton.
DESTROY <MOUS~E'CLICK> /L (command) (NL) (command) (mouse gesture) JFIGURE 3.
Three Tiers Applied to a Display PanelDesign Toolthe system's previous output statement.
Because thesystem responded with both a graphical result andsimultaneous self-narration statement in this example,either dependent reference type is possible.
Theknowledge based graphical knowledge source createsthe KB unit #%Button44 as an instance of#%Buttons, but in this 15I the user is unaware of theunderlying KB and so cannot make or see references toKB units directly.Note that Pegs A and B cannot be merged in thediscourse model.
The followup examples above onlyrefer to that new Button-44 that was created.Alternatively (in some other UI) the user might havemade total- and partial anaphoric re-mention of Peg-Aby saying "Create a button.
And make it a round0ng."
The relationship between the two pegs is notidentity.
However this is not just a fact aboutknowledge acquisition interfaces, ince the IR systemmight have allowed similar elaborated queries, "Searchfor a button, and make sure it'.__~s a round one.
''8 Therelationship between Pegs A and B arises from theirbeing objects in a question-response pair in thestructured dialogue history.Finally, if the system is unable to map the word,say it were "knob," to any KB class then thatconstitutes a missing lexical item.
Peg-A still getscreated but it is not hooked up to #%Buttons (yet).
Inresponse to a 'floating' peg a UI system could chooseto engage the user in a lexical acquisition dialogue,leave Peg-A underspecified until later (especiallyappropriate for text understanding applications), orassociate it with the most specific possible node8Analogous to the issue in Karttunen'sJohn wants to catch a fish and eat it for supper.28temporarily (e.g., #%Icons or #%PhysicalObjects).The eventual response may be to acquire a new class,#%Knobs, as a subclass of icons, or acquire a newlexical mapping from "knob" to the class #%Buttons.The implemented systems which test the discourserepresentation were built primarily to demonstrateother things, i.e., to show the value of combiningindependent knowledge sources via a centralizedblackboard mechanism and to explore options forcombining NL with other UI modalities.Consequently, the NL systems were exercised on onlya subset of their capabilities, namely, NP argumentsto commands, which could be interpreted by mostNLU systems.
The dialogue situation itself is whatargues for the separation of tiers.CONCLUSIONThe three-tiered discourse representation was usedto model dialogue interaction from one agent's pointof view.
The discourse pegs level is independent ofboth the surface forms that occur and the immediatecondition of the supporting belief system.
In theimplemented UI systems the discourse model provideda necessary buffer between the Cyc KB undergoingrevision and the ongoing dialogue.
However, most ofthe relevant considerations apply to other HCIdialogues, to human-human dialogues, and to NLdiscourse processing in general.
I summarize theadvantages of the pegs model under the original threeheadings and close with suggestions for further work.
(A ) Cognitive considerations:The belief system (KB) can serve dialogue processesas a source of information about he reference worldwithout being itself modified as a necessary side effectof discourse interpretation.
This means thatunderstanding is not equated with believing, i.e.,mismatch between pegs and KB objects is tolerated.Separate processes are allowed to update the KB in thebackground uring discourse processing as therepresented world changes and afterward, 'beliefacquisition' can take care of assimilating pegs into theKB where appropriate.The separation of tiers allows for differential ratesof information decay.
The linguistic tier fades fromavailability rapidly and as a function of time,discourse tier decay is conditioned by attentionalfocus, and the KB represents a static belief structure inwhich forgetting, if represented at all, is not affectedby discourse processing.Interpretation can be accomplished incrementally.The meaning of an NP is not defined as a KB object itcorresponds to but as the peg that it mentions in thediscourse model, and that peg is always a partialrepresentation f the speaker's intended referent.
Howpartial it is can vary over time and it can be of use for29sponsoring dependent NPs, generating questions, etc.,even in its partial state.
Indeed, feedback from suchuse is what helps to further specify the peg.
(B ) Linguistic phenomena:In English, all NPs have the potential of beingcontext-dependent.
The separation of tiers allows forthe distinction between true anaphoric dependence andincidental coreference, ncoded as the co-anchoring ofmultiple LOs to a single peg without sponsorship.Partial and total anaphors are explicitly represented,with linguistic sponsoring distinguished fromdiscourse sponsoring, and these relationships arestored as annotated links in the permanent discourserepresentation so that internal NL and non-NLprocedures may query the discourse structure forinformation on coreference, KB property values,justifications for later links, etc.The distinction between discourse and linguisticsponsoring allows language-specific syntactic andsemantic constraints obe upheld at the LO level andoverridden by pragmatic and discourse considerationsat the discourse pegs level, thereby providing amechanism which addresses well-known violations oflinguistic onstraints on coreference without relaxingthe constraints hemselves.Input and output are distinguished at thelinguistic tier but merged at the discourse model tier.The user can make anaphoric reference through anychannel to pegs introduced by the backend systemthrough any channel.
Yet it remains part of thediscourse history record in the linguistic tier, whomade which assertions about which pegs.
In the HCIdialogue nvironment this means that NL and non-NLmodalities are equally acceptable as surface forms forinput and output utterances, i.e., voice input could beadded without extension to the current system as longas the speech recognizer output forms that could beused to generate LOs.
( C) Evidence from a trial implementation:In knowledge-based UIs, the strict separation oftiers means that the KB can be incomplete orincorrect hroughout the discourse, it can remainunaffected by discourse processing, and it can beupdated by other knowledge acquisition proceduresindependently of simultaneous discourse processing.Nevertheless, it is possible and may becomputationally efficient to implement the discoursemodel as a specialized, non-static (and potentiallyredundant) region of the KB so that KB reasoningmechanisms can be applied to the hypothetical stateof affairs depicted by pegs in the discourse model.The guise of an individual has just thoseproperties assumed by the current discourse.
Usingpegs as dynamically defined guises in effectsuppresses non-salient properties of the accessed KBunit.
Thus Grosz's requirement that the discourserepresentation e code relations in focus as well asentities in focus is supported at the pegs level.Moreover, the three-tiered design can represent conflictbetween interpreted iscourse information and theagent's static beliefs because KB values can beoverridden i  the discourse by ascription of contraryproperties to corresponding pegs.
A related benefit isthat the external dialogue participant is allowed tointroduce new pegs and new information into thediscourse and this does not require creation of a newKB object during discourse interpretation.Because pegs are used to accumulate tentativeproperties on (actual or hypothetical) individualswithout editing the KB either permanently or only forthe duration of the discourse, belief acquisition can bepostponed until a sufficiently complete understandinghas been achieved, so the discourse model can serve asan agenda for later KB updating.
Meanwhile, partialand incorrect discourse representations are useful andnon-monotonic repair operations make it easy tocorrect interpretation errors by changing links betweenLO and peg or between peg and KB unit withoutdisturbing other links.Some pegs are not associated with the linguistictier at all.
Graphical events in the physicalenvironment that make an object salient can inject apeg directly into the discourse model.
However, onlypegs introduced via the linguistic hannel can sponsorlinguistic anaphora, e.g., "What is it" requires thepresence of an LO, but "What is that" can besponsored irectly by the peg for an icon that justappeared on the screen.Further ResearchDependents can sponsor other dependents, and ingeneral, there is complex interaction betweensequences ofNPs in a discourse.
For example, in thesentenceDelete the buttons if one of them is missing its label.its label is partially dependent on one, and/t is totallydependent on 9n?
which is partially dependent onthem which is totally dependent on the buttons whichis presumably a total anaphoric reference to adiscourse peg for some set of buttons currently infocus.
The present algorithm attempts pseudo-parallelprocessing of LOs, taking repeated passes through thenew utterance, left to right by NP type, (propernouns, definite NPs,..,reflexives).
One-anaphorsmodified by partitive PPs are exceptional in that heyare processed after the pronoun or definite NP (theobject of the preposition) to their right.
Further workis needed to describe the ways that various NP typesinteract as this was a technique for coping with theabsence of a theory of the possible relationshipsbetween sequences ofpartial and total anaphoric NPs.LOs for events are created by the semanticprocessing module and so sequences such as:You deleted that unit.
I didn't want to do that.could in theory be handled analogously with otherpartial and total anaphors.
However, they are not ofuse in the current application UIs and so their theoryand implementation have remained undeveloped here.Ambiguous mouse clicks of the sort explored inXTRA and CUBRICON plus the ability of the user tointroduce new pegs for regions of the screen, or forevents of moving a pane or icon across the screen, orencircling a set of existing icons to place their pegs inattentional focus should all be attempted using thepegs discourse model as a source of targetinterpretations of mouse clicks and as a place toencode novel, user-defined screen objects.Finally, with this or other representations ofdialogue, a variety of UI metaphors hould beexplored.
The UI can be viewed as a singleautonomous agent or as merely the clearing house forcommunication between the user and a collection ofagents, the operating system, the graphical interface,the NL system, or any of the knowledge sources, suchas those on the HITS blackboard, which couldconceivably want o engage the user in a dialogue.The three-tiered discourse design is also used inthe knowledge based NL system at MCC (Barnett, etal., 1990), and is being explored as one descriptivedevice for dialogue in voice-to-voice machine?
translation at ATR.ACKNOWLEDGEMENTSThis system was designed and developed incooperation with Kent Wittenburg, Richard Cohen,Paul Martin, Elaine Rich, Inderjeet Mani, and otherformer members of the MCC Human Interface Lab.
Iwould also like to thank members of the ATRInterpreting Telephony Research Laboratories andanonymous reviewers for valuable comments on anearlier draft of this paper.REFERENCESAyuso, Damaris (1989) Discourse Entities in Janus.Proceedings of the 27th Annual Meeting of theACL.
pp.243-250.Barnett, James, Kevin Knight, Inderjeet Mani, andElaine Rich (1990) A Knowledge-Based Natural80Language Processing System.
Communications ofthe ACM.Carlson, Gregory (1977).
A Unified Analysis of theEnglish Bare Plural.
Linguistics and Philosophy,1,413-457.Clark, Herbert and E. Schaefer.
(1987).
Collaboratingon Contributions to Conversations.
Languageand Cognitive Processes, pp.
19-41.Cohen, Richard, Timothy McCandless, and ElaineRich, A Problem Solving Approach to Human-Computer Interface management, MCC TechReport ACT-HI-306-89, Fall 1989.Cohen, Philip, Mary Dalrymple, Douglas B. Moran,Fernando C.N.
Pereira, Joseph W. Sullivan,Robert A. Gargan, Jon L. Schlossberg andSherman W. Tyler.
(1989) Synergistic Use ofDirect Manipulation and Natural Language.
InProceedings ofCHI, pp.
227-233.Dahl, Deborah and Catherine N. Ball.
(1990).Reference Resolution in PUNDIT (Tech.
Report).UNISYS.Grosz, Barbara (1977).
The Representation a d Use ofFocus in a System for Understanding Dialogs.
InProceedings ofIJCAI 5.Grosz, Barbara and Candace Sidner (1985) TheStructures of Discourse Structure (Tech.
Report).SRI IntemationalGuha, R. V. and Douglas Lenat.
(1990).
Cyc: AMid-Term Report.
A/MagazineHeim, Irena (1982) The Semantics of Definite andIndefinite Noun Phrases.
U of Massachusetts,PhD Thesis.Hollan, James, Elaine Rich, William Hill, DavidWroblewski, Wayne Wilner, Kent Wittenburg,Jonathan Grudin, and members of the HumanInterface Laboratory.
(1988).
An Introduction toHITS: Human Interface Tool Suite (TechReport).
MCCKarttunen, Lauri (1968) What Makes Definite NounPhrases Definite?
Technical Report, Rand Corp.Karttunen, Lauri (1976) Discourse Referents.
InMcCawley, J.
(ed.
), Syntax and Semantics.Academic Press, New York.Landman, F. (1986) Pegs and Alecs.
Linguistics andPhilosophy, pp.
97-155.Landman, F. (1986) Data Semantics for AttitudeReports.
Linguistics and Philosophy, pp.
157-183.Luperfoy, Susann (1989) The Semantics of PluralIndefinite Anaphors in English.
Texas LinguisticForum.
pp.
91-136.Luperfoy, Susann (1991) Discourse Pegs: AComputational Analysis of Context-DependentReferring Expressions.
Doctoral dissertation,Department of Linguistics, The University ofTexas.Luperfoy, Susann and Elaine Rich (1992) AComputational Model for the Resolution ofContext-Dependent References.
(in submission)Neal, Jeanette, Zuzana Dobes, Keith E. Bettinger, andJong S. Byoun (1990) Multi-Modal References inHuman-Computer Dialogue.
Proceedings ofAAAI.
pp 819-823Oviatt, Sharon L., Philip R. Cohen and AnnPodlozny (1990) Spoken Language in InterpretedTelephone Dialogues.
SRI InternationalTechnical Note 496.Rich, Elaine A. and Susann Luperfoy (1988) AnArchitecture for Anaphora Resolution,Proceedings of Applied ACL.Sidner, Candace L. (1979) Towards a ComputationalTheory of Definite Anaphora Comprehension iDiscourse.
Doctoral dissertation, ElectricalEngineering and Computer Science,Massachusetts In titute of Technology.Veltman, F. (1981) Data Semantics In Groenendijk,J.
A. G., T. M. V. Janssen and M. B. J.
Stokhof(eds.)
Formal Methods in the Study of LanguagePart 2, Amsterdam: Mathematisch Centrum.Wahlster, Wolfgang.
(1989) User and Discoursemodels for multimodal Communication.
I  J.W.Sullivan and S.W.
Tyler, eds., Architectures forIntelligent Interfaces: Elements and Prototypes,Addison-Wesley, Palo Alto, CA.Webber, Bonnie L. (1978) A Formal Approach toDiscourse Anaphora.
Doctoral dissertation,Division of Applied Mathematics, HarvardUniversity.31
