A BASIS FOR A FORMALIZATION OF LINGUISTIC STYLEStephen J. GreenDepartment of Computer ScienceUniversity of WaterlooWaterloo, Ontario, Canada N2L 3G1INTRODUCTIONStyle in language is more than just surface ap-peaxance, on the contrary, it is an essential partof the meaning conveyed by the writer.
A com-putational theory of style could be of great usein many computational linguistics applications.
Asystem that is 'stylistically aware' could analyze thewriter's stylistic intent and understand the com-plex interaction of choices that produce a certaineffect.
In applications such as machine translation,a computational theory of stylistics would allowthe preservation or modification of stylistic effectsacross languages.
The theory would also be use-ful in computer-aided language instruction where,along with vocabulary and grammar, the individ-ual writing style of the student could be analysedand amended.
The work described in this paperwill be incorporated into into the Nigel grammarof the Penman system to provide a fine degree ofstylistic ontrol in language generation.Drawing on both classical and contemporaryrhetorical theory, we view style as goal directed:that is, texts axe written for a purpose and thispurpose dictates the stylistic choices that must bemade.
We find a computational counterpart tothisview in the work of Hovy (1988), who used style asone of the pragmatic factors controlling enerationin his PAULINE system.
More recently, DiMaxco(1990), the basis for this research, attempted tocodify many of the elements of style that had pre-viously been defined only descriptively and infor-mally.DiMaxco presented a vocabulary of stylisticterms that was used to construct a syntactic stylis-tic grammar at three levels: primitive elements, ab-stract elements, and stylistic goals.
At the baselevel of the grammar, the primitive elements de-scribe the stylistic effects of individual sentencecomponents.
These primitive elements axe thencombined at a level of more abstract descriptions.These abstract elements comprise a stylistic 'met-alanguage' that allows each element o be usedto characterize a gIoup of stylistically similar sen-tences.
At the top level are the stylistic goals, suchas clarity or concreteness, that are realized by pat-terns of the abstract elements.312The primitive-element level of DiMaxco'sstylistic grammar isdivided into two views, connec-tire and hierarchic.
Here I will focus on the connec-tive view, for which the stylistic effect of a sentencecomponent is determined by considering its degreeof cohesiveness within the sentence.
The degrees ofcohesiveness, or connectivity, vary on a scale fromconjunct ?
(neither connective nor disconnective)through conjunct 4 (excessively connective).
1In more recent work, DiMaxco and Hirst (1992)have provided a more formal basis for their the-ory of linguistic style, a basis that has its rootsin the established linguistic theory of Halliday andHasan (1976) and Halliday (1985).
I am extend-ing and refining their preliminary classifications ofthe primitive elements to provide a sounder basisfor the entire computational theory of style.
I willshow how the connective primitive elements canbe firmly tied to linguistic theory and how theirproperties are transmitted through the levels of thestylistic grammar.A BASIS FOR LINGUISTIC STYLEDrawing on the work of Halliday and Hasan (1976),a seminal work in textual cohesion, I will show howintrasentence ohesion, and its related stylistic ef-fects, can be derived from the textual cohesive rela-tions that Halliday and Hasan describe.
Althoughthere are undoubtedly significant stylistic effects atthe text level, I feel that the codification of style atthe sentence l vel has not yet been fully explored.For the most part, these cohesive relations func-tion as well at the sentence l vel as they do at thetext level.
This is illustrated in Quirk et al (1985),where all of the relations that Halliday and Hasandescribe for texts are also demonstrated within sin-gle sentences.Halliday and Hasan enumerate four majortypes of cohesive relations for English: ellipsis, sub-stitution, reference, and conjunction.
They classifyIThere is also a scale of disconnectivity, or 'anti-junctness', but I will not be using it in this discussion.these relations in terms of their cohesive strengthsrelative to one another: ellipsis and substitution axethe most cohesive relations, followed by reference,with conjunction being the least cohesive.
One ofthe main objectives of my research is determininghow all of these cohesive relations can be incorpo-rated into the scale of 'conjunctness' described ear-lier.
In this paper, I will deal only with ellipsis.
2Halliday and Hasan consider substitution to beequally as cohesive as ellipsis.
I argue that el-lipsis is more cohesive, after Quirk etal .
(1985,p.
859) who state that for substitution and ellip-sis "there are generally strong preferences for themost economical variant, viz the one which exhibitsthe greatest degree of reduction."
Thus, the ellip-tical relations are more cohesive, due to the factthat they are generally more reduced.
In DiMaxcoand Hirst, all forms of eRipsis are given a classifica-tion of conjunct s (strongly connective), but here Iwill look at the three types of ellipsis separately, as-signing each its own degree of cohesiveness,  Thisassignment is made using by considering the mostreducing relations to be the most cohesive, in thespirit of the above quote from Quirk et al SinceHalliday and Hasan provide a ranking for the fourtypes of cohesive relation, and since ellipsis is con-sidered to be the most cohesive relation, all of thedegrees assigned for the different ypes of ellipsiswill be ranked in the top half of the scale of cohe-siveness.The first type of ellipsis which Halliday andHasan deal with is nominal ellipsis.
This occursmost often when a common noun is elided froma nominal group and some other element of thenominal group takes the place of this elided noun.An example of this occurs in (1), where the nounezpedition is elided, and the numerative t~0o takesits place.
(1) The first expedition was quickly followed byanother two Q.4This is the least concise form of ellipsis, since onlya single noun is elided.
As such, it is given thelowest classification in this category: conjunct s(moderately-strong connective).Next, we have verbal ellipsis.
In instances ofverbal ellipsis, any of the operators in the verbalgroup may be elided, as opposed to nominal ellipsisaWhen identifying the kinds of ellipsis, I use thetexans defined by Halliday and Hasan and Quirk etal.All examples are taken from the appropriate sectionsof these references.sI will be using a wider scale of cohesiveness thanthe one used by DLMarco and Hirst.
Here conjunc~ e,rather than conjunct*, becomes the classification forthe excessively connective.
This change is made to al-low for the description of more-subtle stylistic effectsthan is currently possible.4Adapted from Quirk etal.
example 12.54, p. 900.where only the noun is elided.
As Halliday andHasan point out, many forms of verbal ellipsis arevery diiticnlt o detect, due to the complexity of theEnglish verbal group.
Because of this, I will dealonly with two simple cases of verbal ellipsis: thosein which the verbal group is removed entirely, as in(2), and those in which the verbal group consistsof only modal operators, as in (3).
(2) You will speak to whoever I tell you to Q.5(3) It may come or it may not ?.eBoth of these sentences axe quite concise, as all,or nearly all, of the verbal group is elided.
Verbalellipsis is generally more concise than nominal el-lipsis, and thus it has a higher level of cohesiveness:conjunct 4.Finally, we look at clausal ellipsis, in which anentire clause is elided from a sentence.
We see anexample of this in (4).
(4) You can borrow my pen if you want Q.7Since this form is more concise than either of theprevious two verbal forms, we accord it a stillhigher level of cohesiveness: conjunct s. This clas-sification gives clausal ellipsis a degree of cohesive-ness verging on the extreme.
The excessive amountof missing information tends to become conspicu-ous by its absence.
Here we axe beginning to devi-ate from what would be considered normal usage,creating an effect that DiMaxco (1990) would callst~/listic discord.I will now present a short example to demon-strate how the effects of a foundation based onfunctional theory axe built up through the threelevels of the stylistic grammar.313A SIMPLE EXAMPLEI will use the functional basis of style describedabove to illustrate how small variations in sen-tence structure can lead to larger variations in thestylistic goals of a sentence.
This will be demon-strated by tracing the analysis of an example sen-tence through the levels of description of the stylis-tic grammar.The first step in the analysis determines whichconnective primitive elements axe present in thesentence and where they occur in our scale of co-hesiveness.
Next, the primitive elements axe usedto determine which abstract elements axe present.Finally the abstract elements axe examined to de-termine the stylistic goals of the sentence.We start with sentence (4) as above.
Thissentence contains several connective primitive d-ements, the most prominent being the conjunct sSQuirk et al example 12.64, p. 908.eAdapted from Halliday and Hasan example 4:57,p.
170.~Quisk etal.
example 12.65, p. 909.clausal ellipsis noted eaxlier, as well as instances ofa conjunct a personal reference (you), a conjunct 2deictic (my), and a conjunct 1 adversative (if youwant).
(Although I have completed the analysis forthe other cohesive relations, here I am using thepreliminary classifications given by DiMaxco andHirst (1992) for the other connective lements.
)Apart from the terminal ellipsis, all of theseconnective lements are concordant, that is, theyrepresent constructions that conform to normal us-age.
The terminal ellipsis, due to its excessivelyhigh level of cohesiveness, i  weakly discordant, aslight deviation from normal usage.
Thus, this sen-tence contains initial and medial concords, followedby a terminal discord.
In the terms of the stylis-tic grammar, this shift from concord to discord isformalized in the abstract element of dissolution.The presence of dissolution characterizes the stylis-tic goal of concreteness, which is associated withsentences that suggest an effect of specificity by anemphasis on certain components of a sentence.
Inthis sentence, the emphasis is created by the ter-minal discord.
The clausal ellipsis requires that agreat deal of information be recovered by the readerand because of this it leaves her feeling that thesentence is unfinished.The next example, sentence (5), is a modifica-tion of (4) and is an example of verbal ellipsis, asin (2).
(5) You can borrow my pen if you want to Q.In this sentence, all of the previous connective l-ements remain except for the terminal clausal el-lipsis.
This ellipsis has been replaced by a ver-bal ellipsis that is conjunct 4, strongly but not ex-cessively cohesive.
This replacement consequentlyeliminates the terminal discord present in the pre-vious sentence, changing it to a strong concord.Thus, (5) has initial, medial, and terminal con-cords, making it a fully concordant sentence.
Atthe level of abstract elements, such a sentence issaid to be centroschematic, that is, a sentence witha central, dominant clause with optional depen-dent clauses and complex subordination.
Cen-troschematic sentences characterize the stylisticgoal of clarity, which is associated with sentencesthat suggest plainness, preciseness, and predictabil-ity.
In this sentence, the effect of predictability iscreated by removing the terminal discord, thus re-solving the unfulfilled expectations of (4).Thus, using the cohesive relations of Hallidayand Hasan, it is possible, as I have shown, to pro-vide a formal basis for the connective primitive el-ements of the syntactic stylistic grammar.
Theseprimitive elements can now be used as the compo-nents of more-precise abstract elements, with sub-tle variations in the primitive elements allowingmore-expressive ariations in the abstract elements314that constitute a sentence.
These variations at theabstract-element level of the grammar axe mirroredat the level of stylistic goals by large variations inthe overall goals attributed to a sentence.CONCLUSIONThe research presented above is a part of a largergroup project on the theory and applications ofcomputational stylistics.
I have completed the in-tegration of all the connective primitive elementswith Halliday and Hasan's theory of cohesion.
Mynext step is to perform the same kind of analysisfor the hierarchic primitive elements, giving them asolid basis in functional theory.
In addition, I havecompleted refinements to the abstract elements,making them more expressive, and I will be ableto formulate their definitions in terms of the newprimitive elements.The full theory of style will be implemented ina functionally-based stylistic analyzer by Pat Hoyt.This control of stylistic analysis combined with mywork on the Penman generation system will allowus to begin exploring the myriad of applicationsthat require an understanding of the subtle but sig-nificant nuances of language.ACKNOWLEDGMENTSThis work was supported by the University ofWaterloo and the Information Technology Re-seaxch Centres.
My thanks to Chyrsanne DiMaxco,Gracme Hirst, and Cameron Shelley for their com-ments on an earlier version of this paper, and to theAnonymous Referees for their helpful criticisms.REFERENCESDiMaxco, Chrysanne (1990).
Computational stylis-tics for natural language translation.
PhD the-sis, University of Toronto.DiMaxco, Chrysanne and Hirst, Graeme (1992).
"A computational approach to style in lan-guage."
Manuscript submitted for publication.Halliday, Michael (1985).
An introduction to func-tional grammar.
Edward Arnold.Halliday, Michael and Hasan, Ruqaiya (1976) Co-hesion in English.
Longman.Hovy, Eduaxd H. (1988).
Generating natural lan-guage under pragmatic constraints.
LawrenceEdbaum Associates.Quirk, Randolph, Greenbaum, Sidney, Leech, Ge-offrey, and Svartvik, Jan (1985).
A comprehen-sive grammar of the English language.
Long-man.
