METONYMY: REASSESSMENT, SURVEY OF ACCEPTABILITY,AND ITS TREATMENT IN A MACHINE TRANSLATION SYSTEMShin-ichiro Kamei* & Takahiro WakaoComputing Research LaboratoryNew Mexico State UniversityLas Cruces, New Mexico 88003Tel : 505-646-5466 Fax : 505-646-6218Interact: skamei@nmsu.edu & twakao@nmsu.edu* visiting researcher f om NEC Corporation in JapanABSTRACTIn this article we outline a basic approachto treating metonymy properly in a multil-ingual machine translation system.
This isthe first attempt at treating metonymy in anmachine translation environment.
Theapproach is guided by the differences ofacceptability of metonymy which wereobtained by our comparative survey amongthree languages, English, Chinese, andJapanese.
The characteristics of theapproach are as follows:(1) Influences of the context, individuals,and familiality with metonymy are notused.
(2) An actual acceptability of each meto-nymic expression is not realizeddirectly.
(3) Grouping metonymic examples intopatterns is determined by the accepta-bility judgement of the speakers ur-veyed as well as the analysts' intui-tion.
(4) The analysis and generation com-ponents treat metonymy differentlyusing the patterns.
(5) The analysis component accepts awider range of metonymy than theactual results of the survey, and thegeneration component treats meto-nymy more strictly than the actualresults.We think that the approach is a start-ing point for more sophisticated approachesto translation in a multilirtgual machinetranslation environment.INTRODUCTIONAmong others, both Lakoff and Johnson(1980), and Fass (1991) divide metonymicexpressions into several fixed patterns uchas Part-For-Whole and Container-For-Content.
Sentence (1) is a typicalContainer-For-Content metonymy and "thisglass" is replaced with "the liquid in thisglass" in its metonymic reading.
(1) "He drank this glass.
"One of the things that has been lessfocused on in previous literature on meto-nymy is the problem of generation typicallyin a machine translation system.
For exam-ple, even though the analysis component ofa machine translation system produces acorrect metonymic reading for sentence (1),i.e.
"the liquid in this glass" for "thisglass", if the result of the analysis com-ponent is translated irectly in word-for-word manner, such an output sentence maynot be natural in the target language.
Onthe other hand, it may not be appropriateeither for the generation component to pro-duce a sentence which is a direct transla-tion of the original metonymy if the targetlanguage does not allow such expression.We think it is necessary for a multil-ingual machine translation system to havenot only understanding of metonymy whichmost previous works on metonymy havefocused on, but also proper ways to handlegeneration of metonymy.
In order to findout ways to treat metonymy properly in amultilingual environment, we have con-ducted a survey on acceptability of variousexamples of metonymy among English,Chinese, and Japanese.
The patterns ofprevious works (Fass 1991, Lakoff and309Johnson 1980, Yamanashi 1987) seem tobe obtained from the intuition of theanalysts.
However, we think that the pat-terns which are based on the analysts'intuition to begin with should be supportedand determined more precisely by the resultof this kind of survey.
An analysis basedon actual data allows us to establish a clearset of patterns and sub-groups, for exampleto decide whether we require eitherProducer-For-Product (Lakoff and Johnson1980) or Artist-for-Artform (Fass 1991), orboth of them.A SURVEY OF METONYMYA comparative survey on acceptability ofmetonymic expressions in English, Chineseand Japanese has been conducted.
All ofthe 25 sentences which are used in the sur-vey are taken from metonymy examples inEnglish in previous works (Lakoff andJohnson 1980, Fass 1991, Yamanashi1987).
We asked native speakers of thethree languages to score the acceptability ofeach sentence.
Direct translations wereused for Chinese and Japanese.
The dif-ferent languages show differences in accep-tability (for the details, Kamei and Wakao1992).Based on both intuitive analyses andthe result of the .survey, we have esta,blished four major patterns, and severalsub-groups for the first pattern (Locating)as shown in Appendix A.
The patterns are1) Locating, 2) Emphasis of one aspect, 3)Abstract and collective entity for its con-sisting concrete items, and 4) Informationconveyer for information giver.For example, sentence (2) belongs tothe second group of Locating pattern (Pro-ducer for Product).
Examples of "Ford","Picasso", "Steinbeck" and "Bach" alsobelong to this group (see Appendix A 1.2).These sentences are fully acceptable inEnglish and Japanese, however, theiracceptability is low in Chinese and sen-tence (2) is completely unacceptable.
(2) "He read Mao.
"On the other hand, sentence (3)belongs to the fourth pattem, informationconveyer and giver.
The tendency of thepattern is that those examples in this pat-tern are acceptable in English and Chinese,but not in Japanese.
(3) "The sign said fishing was prohibitedhere.
"AN APPROACH TO TRANSLATINGMETONYMYAn important point to realize is that actualcomputational treatment of metonymicexpressions i  determined by the accepta-bility of the pattern to which the expressionbelongs.
Another important point is thatthe analysis and generation components ofa machine translation system should treatmetonymy differently.We believe that the main factors fortreating metonymy correctly in a multil-ingual machine translation system are 1) itsuniversality, which can be a guideline forthe analysis component, 2) language depen-dency, which can be used for generation,and 3) others such as the context, culture,and familiarity.
We think that it seemsunrealistic to expect an actual machinetranslation system to cope well with thethird of these factors at present.
Given thelack of such knowledge, our basic heuris-tics for treating metonymy are as follows:Even if some language shows the ten-dency of unacceptability, if one or morelanguages how acceptance in the group towhich the expression belongs to in theresult of the survey, the system shouldaccept it for analysis, and come up withsome metonymic reading using its infer-ence mechanism (Iverson and Helmreich1992, Fass 1991).
Given such information,the generation component should look atthe tendency of each language.
If the tar-get language allows a metonymic expres-sion which corresponds to the originalform, then the system should produce adirect translation since the translationpreserves the naturalness.
However, if the310target language does not allow a meto-nymic expression which corresponds to theoriginal form, then the system should usethe result of the metonymic inference andcome up with an acceptable translation.We think that these basic heuristicsare a good starting point for more sophisti-cated approaches to translation in a multi-lingual environment.
We intend as ournext step to implement our ideas usingexisting systems uch as the ULTRA MTsystem (Wilks and Farwell 1990) and theMetallel metonymic analysis program(Iverson and Helmreich 1992).APPENDIX ASome of the metonymic sentences used inthe survey.1.
Locating1.1 Container for ContentDave drank the glasses.The kettle is boiling.1.2 Producer for ProductHe bought a Ford.He's got a Picasso in his room.Anne read Steinbeck.Ted played Bach.He read Mao.2.
Emphasis of one aspectWe need a couple of strong bodies forour team.There are a lot of good heads in theuniversity.3.
Abstract entity for concrete entityExxon has raised its price again.Washington is insensitive to the needsof the people.4.
Information conveyer for informationgiverThe T.V.
said it was very crowded at thefestival.The sign said fishing was prohibitedhere.REFERENCESFass, Dan.
(1991).
met*:A Method forDiscriminating Metonymy and Meta-phor by Computer.
ComputationalLinguistics, 17 (1): 49-90.Iverson, Eric and Helmreich, Stephen.(1992).
Metallel: An IntegratedApproach to Non-literal PhraseInterpretation.
Memoranda in Com-puter and Cognitive Science, MCCS-92-231 Computing Research Labora-tory, New Mexico State University,Las Cruces NM.Kamei, Shin-ichiro and Wakao, Takahiro.(1992).
Metonymy: reassessment, sur-vey of acceptability, and its treatmentin a machine translation system.Memoranda in Computer and Cogni-tive Science, MCCS92-236 ComputingResearch Laboratory, New MexicoState University, Las Cruces, NM.Lakoff, George and Johnson, Mark.
(1980).Metaphor We Live By.
London: Chi-cago University Press.Wilks, Yorick and Farwell, David.
(1990).A White Paper on Research inPragmatic-based Machine Translation.Memoranda in Computer and Cogni-tive Science, MCCS-90-188 Comput-ing Research Laboratory, New MexicoState University, Las Cruces NM.Yamanashi, Masa-aki.
(1987).
Metonymicinterpretation and associativeprocesses in natural language.
InLanguage and Artificial Intelligence,Makoto Nagao (ed): 77-86.
Amster-dam: Elsevier Science Publishers B.V.311
