Spatial Lexical ization in the Translation of Preposit ionalPhrasesArturo  Tru j i l lo*Computer  LaboratoryUniversity of Cambr idgeCambr idge CB2 3QG, Englandiat@cl.cam.ac.ukAbst rac tA pattern in the translation of locative prepositionalphrases between English and Spanish is presented.
Away of exploiting this pattern is proposed in the con-text of a multilingual machine translation system underdevelopment.In t roduct ionTwo of the main problems in machine translation (MT)are ambiguity and lexical gaps.
Ambiguity occurs whena word in the source language (SL) has more that onetranslation i to the target language (TL).
Lexical gapsoccur when a word in one language can not be trans-lated directly into another language.
This latter prob-lem is viewed by some as the key translation problem,(Kameyama et al, 1991).A case in point is the translation of prepositionalphrases (PP).
The following entry for the translationsinto Spanish of the preposition along demonstrates this(entry taken from (Garcia-Pelayo, 1988)).along: pot (by), a lo largo de (to the length of),segfin (according to)Both problems occur here: there are three differenttranslations for the same English preposition, and thesecond of these is a phrase used to describe a sense ofalong which is not encoded as one word in Spanish.Lex ica l i za t ion  Pat ternsIt is argued in (Talmy, 1985) that languages differ inthe type of information they systematically encode inlexical units.
That is, languages exhibit distinct lexical-ization patterns.
For instance, in a sentence where boththe direction and manner of motion are expressed, En-glish will encode motion and manner in the same verb,whereas in Spanish a distinct lexicalization ofthese twomeaning components will be favoured (Ibid.
p. 69):Spa.
E1 globo subi6 pot la chimenea flotandoLit.
the balloon moved-up through the chimneyfloatingEng.
The balloon floated up the chimney*This work was funded by the UK Science and Engineer-ing Research CouncilHere Spanish subi6 encodes 'move + up' whereas En-glish floated encodes 'move ?
floating'.Capturing lexicalization patterns of this sort can helpus make certain generalizations about lexical gaps andambiguities in MT.
In the rest of this paper two lex-icalization patterns for English locative prepositionalphrases (PP) will be presented.
It will be shown howthey allow us to simplify the bilingual lexicon of a trans-fer based, multi-lingual MT system under development.Ev idenceThe two lexicalization patterns under analysis can beillustrated using the following three sentences (loc =location, dest = destination):Eng.
She ran underloc the bridge (in circles)Spa.
Corri5 debajo del puente (en circulos)Lit.
Ran-she under of-the bridgeEng.
She ran underpa, h+zoc the bridge (to the otherside)Spa.
Corri6 por debajo del puente (hasta el otrolado)Lit.
Ran-she along under of-the bridgeEng.
She ran underde,t+aoc the bridge (and stoppedthere)Spa.
Corri6 hasta debajo del puente (y alll se de-tuvo)Lit.
Ran-she to under of-the bridgeIn the first sentence there is a direct translation of theEnglish sentence.
In this case the features encoded bythe English and Spanish PP's are the same.
In the sec-ond sentence the English preposition encodes the pathfollowed by the runner and the location of this pathwith respect o the bridge; in Spanish such a combina-tion needs to be expressed by the two prepositions potand debajo de.
In the third example the English prepo-sition expresses the destination of the running and thelocation of that destination with respect o the bridge;this has to be expressed by the two Spanish prepositionsbasra and debajo de.306Other English prepositions which allow either two orthree of these readings in locative xpressions are shownin the table below.P location path 'along P' destination 'to P'behind detr~s de pot detrLs de hasta detr?s debelow debajo de pot debajo de hasta debajo deinside dentro de pot dentro de hasta dentro deoutside fuera de pot fuera de hasta fuera deunder debajo de pot debajo de hasta debajo debetween entre por entre -near cerca de hasta cerca deFrom the table the following generalization can bemade: whatever the translation P of the locative senseof an English preposition is, its path incorporating senseis translated as pot P and its destination incorporatingsense is translated as hasta P.In short, certain English prepositions are ambiguousbetween encoding location, path + location or destina-tion + location.
This is not the case in Spanish.
Whentranslating from English such ambiguities can not bepreserved very naturally.
In particular, whenever it isnecessary to preserve them (e.g.
for legal documents),a disjunction of each individual sense must be used inthe TL sentence.In certain cases, however, it may be the case thatonly one of these readings is allowed.DisambiguationAs far as the selection of the appropriate target lan-guage (TL) preposition is concerned the constituentwhich the PP modifies plays a major role in determiningwhich readings of a preposition sense are allowed.Deciding whether the preposition is used in a spatialsense, as opposed to a temporal or causative sense, isdetermined by the semantics of the noun phrase (NP)within it, e.g.
under the table, under the regime, underthree minutes, under pressure, under development, un-der the bridge; that is, a place denoting NP gives riseto a spatial PP.There are two cases to consider in disambiguatingspatial senses.
In the case of the PP attaching to anoun, the sense selected will be the location one.
ForexampleEng.
The park outs ide  the citySpa.
E1 parque fuera  de la ciudadThe second case is when the PP modifies a verb.
Forthis case it is necessary to consider the semantics ofthe verb in question.
Verbs of motion such as walk,crawl, run, swim, row, gallop, march, fly, drive, jumpand climb allow location, path and destination readings.For instance:Eng.
The diver swam below the boatSpa.
E1 buceador had6 deba jo  de /por  deba jode /hasta  deba jo  de/1 boteVerbs which do not express motion such as stand, sit,rest, sleep, live and study usually require the locationsense of the preposition:Eng.
The diver rested be low the boatSpa.
El buceador descans6 deba jo  del boteThis second analysis is oversimplistic since somereadings depend on other semantic features of the verb,preposition and complement NP involved.
However,these can be incorporated into the strategy explainedbelow.One last point to note is that not all the prepositionspresented allow all three readings.
This will be takeninto consideration when making the generalizations inthe encoding of the above observation.EncodingRepresentat ion  fo r  P repos i t ionsAs exemplified above, the translation of a prepositiondepends on three sources of information: 1) the wordmodified by the PP determines whether the sense ofthe preposition may include a path or a destinationcomponent, 2) the preposition itself determines howmany spatial senses it allows, 3) the NP complementof the preposition determines whether it is being usedspatially, temporally, causatively, etc.
To encode thesethree sources, prepositions will be represented as threeplace relations.
The pattern for a prepositional entry isshown in 1); a possible entry for below is shown in 2).1) P\[modified, preposition, complement\]2) below\[motion-verb, \[path,dest\],place\]The notation here is an informal representation f thetyped feature structures described in (Briscoe et al,1992) and (Copestake, 1992).
The argument types in 1)can be explained as follows.
'Modified' is a type whichsubsumes 'events' (denoted by verbs) and 'objects' (de-noted by nouns); the type 'event' is further subdividedinto 'motion-verb' and 'non-motion-verb'.
'Preposition'is a type which subsumes properties which depend onthe preposition itself; for the examples presented thistype will encode whether the preposition can express apath or a destination (the extra square brackets indi-cate a complex type).
Finally, 'complement' subsumesa number of types corresponding to the semantic fieldof the complement NP; these include 'spatial' with sub-type 'place'; 'temporal', and 'causative'.The instantiated entry in 2) corresponds to the useof below in the diver swam below the boat.
Such in-stantiations would be made by the grammar by struc-ture sharing of the semantic features from the modifiedconstituent and from the complement NP.
In this waythe three translations of below would only be producedwhen the semantic features of the modified constituentand complement NP unify with the first and third ar-guments respectively.307Bi l ingua l  Lex ica l  RulesTo encode the regularity of the translations presented,bilingual lexical rules will be introduced.
These rulestake as input a bilingual exical entry and give as out-put a bilingual exical entry.
An oversimplified rule togenerate the 'path' sense for a preposition that allowssuch a reading is given below (P  = variable rangingover prepositions, e = the empty type, lugar = place,camino = path).Rule:PE.g \[motion-verb, \[path,-\],place\]P sp~ \[verbo-movimiento,e,lugax\] dePz,g \[motion-verb, \[path,-\] place\]P OR\[verbo-movimiento,camino,lugar\]P ap~ \[verbo-movimiento,e,lugar\] deA similar rule would encode the 'destination' sense gen-eralization.The bilingual lexical rules work by extending thebilingual lexicon automatically before any translationtakes place; this gives rise to a static transfer compo-nent with faster performance but more memory con-sumption.
Only those entries which unify with the in-put part of a rule actually produce a new bilingual en-try.An example of the 'path' rule being applied is shownbelow.Input:below\[motion-verb,\[path,dest\],place\] ~-*debaj o\[verbo-movimiento,e,lugar\] deOutput:below \[motion-verb,\[path,dest\],place\] *-*P OR.\[verbo-movimiento,camino,lugar\] debajo\[verbo-movimiento,e,lugar\] deNote that not all prepositions in the table above al-low all three readings; for this the allowed readings arestated in the second argument of the preposition.Related ResearchIn (Copestake ~ al., 1992) the notion of a llink is intro-duced.
These are typed feature structures which encodegeneralizations about the type of transfer elations thatoccur in the bilingual lexicon.
That is, each bilingualentry corresponds to one ffink.
Because ffmks are rep-resented as a hierarchy of types, the amount of datastored in the bilingual lexicon is minimal.
The bilin-gual lexical rules presented here will further refine theidea of a tlink by minimizing the number of bilinguallexical entries that have to be coded manually, sincethe bilingual exical rules can be seen as operating overffinks (and hence bilingual exical entries) to give newtlinks.The grammatical formalism used broadly resemblesearlier versions of HPSG.
The idea of bilingual exicalrules is partly inspired by the lexical rules introducedwithin this framework in (Pollard & Sag, 1992).Conc lus ionWe have argued that ambiguities and lexical mis-matches found in English-Spanish translation of PP'scan be dealt with using ideas from cross-linguistic stud-ies of lexicalization patterns, and suggested a use of therelevant linguistic insights for MT applications.This consisted of encoding prepositions as three placerelations, and of having bilingual exical rules which op-erate over the bilingual lexicon to expand it.
By for-mulating regularities in this way consistency and com-pactness in the bilingual exicon, and therefore in thetransfer module, are achieved.The next steps will include the implementation ofthe mechanism to drive the bilingual exical rules, therefining and testing of the semantic lassification, theisolation of further egularities and the investigation ofother types of PP's.AcknowledgementsMany thanks to Ted Briscoe, Antonio Sanfilippo, AnnCopestake and two anonymous reviewers.
Thanks alsoto Trinity Hall, Cambridge, for a travel grant.
All re-maining errors are mine.ReferencesBriscoe, T.; Copestake, A., and de Paiva, V., editors.
1992(forthcoming).
Default Inheritance in Unification BasedApproaches to the Lexicon.
Cambridge University Press,Cambridge, England.Copestake, A.; Jones, B.; Sanfilippo, A.; Rodriguez, H.;Vossen, P.; Montemagni, S., and Marinal, E. 1992.
Multilin-gual lexical representations.
Technical Report 043, ESPRITBRA-3030 AQUILEX Working Paper, Commission of theEuropean Communities, Brussels.Copestake, A.
1992.
The AQUILEX LKB: Representa-tion issues in semi-automatic axluisition of large lexicons.In Proceedings 3rd Con\]erence on Applied Natural LanguageProcessing, Trento, Italy.Garcia-Pelayo, R. 1988.
Larousse Gran DiccionarioEspaaol-Inglgs English-Spanish.
Larousse, Mexico DF, Mex-ico.Kameyama, M.; Ochitani, R., and Peters, S. 1991.
Re-solving translation mismatches with information flow.
InProceedings A CL-91, Berkeley, CA.Pollard, C., and Sag, I.
1992 forthcoming.
Agreement,Binding and Control: Information Based Syntax and Se-mantics Vol.
II.
Lecture Notes.
CSLI, Stanford, CA, USA.Talmy, L. 1985.
Lexicalization patterns: semantic struc-ture in lexical forms.
In Shopen, T., editor, Language Typol-ogy and Syntactic Description Vol.
111: Grammatical Cate-gories and the Lexicon.
Cambridge University Press, Cam-bridge, England.308
