TRANSFERS OF MEANINGGeof f rey  NunbergXerox Palo Alto Research Center and Stanford UniversityXerox PARC3333 Coyote Hill RoadPalo Alto CA, 94304 USAInternet:  nunberg@parc.xerox.comAbstractIn one form or another, the phenomena associatedwith "meaning transfer" have become central is-sues in a lot of recent work on semantics.
Speakingvery roughly, we can partition approaches to thephenomenon along two dimensions, which yieldfour basic points of departure.
In the first two,people have considered transfer in basically se-mantic or linguistic terms.
Some have concen-trated on what we might call the paradigmaticaspects of transfer, focusing on the productivelexical processes that map semantic features intofeatures - -  for example, the "grinding" rule thatapplies to turn the names of animals into massterms denoting their meat or fur.
This the ap-proach that's involved in most recent work on"regular polysemy," systematic polysemy," andthe like, for example by Apresjan, Ostler andAtkins, Briscoe and Copestake, Nunberg and Za-enen, Wilensky, Kilgarriff and a number of otherpeople.
Other people have emphasized the syncat-egorematic aspects of transfer; that is, the waysmeaning shifts and specifications are coerced inthe course of semantic omposition.
This is an ap-proach that hass been developed in particular byJames Pustejovsky and his collaborators, buildingon earlier work on type shifting.As opposed to these, there are conceptualand pragmatic approaches to transfer, which fo-cus on the extralinguistic circumstances that li-cense transfers of various types.
Here again thereare both paradigmatic and syncategorematic ap-proaches, loosely speaking.
The first is exempli-fied in a lot of recent work on metaphor by peopleassociated with the "cognitive linguistics" school,which has focused chiefly on the relations betweendomains of experience that metaphor variously ex-ploits and imputes.
The second is represented bywork on indirect speech within Gricean pragmat-ics, Relevance Theory, and the like, which hasbeen chiefly concerned with specifying the con-versational conditions that give rise to metaphor,irony, and analogous phenomena.Of course this categorization is somewhat fac-titious.
The borders between these approaches arehighly porous, and most work on transfer over-laps several of them.
This is entirely appropriate,since these are in no sense competing theories oraccounts of the phenomena.
Transfer is clearly alinguistic process, and in many of its most impor-tant forms a lexical one.
But it just as clearlyhas its basis in very general cognitive and commu-nicative principles.
And while it's reasonable thatpeople should choose to focus on one or anotherof these considerations relative to their immediateinterests, it is also useful to keep the Big Picture inmind, lest we inadvertently ascribe to one domainof explanation a responsibility hat more properlybelongs to another.
This is the picture I want tosketch out in this talk.A comprehensive account of transfer has tomake appeal to three different kinds of regulari-ties or rules.
The first are nonlinguistic: the cor-respondences between domains, real or imputed,that transfer invokes, and the communicative in-terests that may make these invocations useful orinstructive - -  they enable us to identify one thingin virtue of its relation to another, explain an ab-stract domain by reference to a concrete one, andso forth.
Second, there is the repertory of generallinguistic processes of transfer that exploit thesecorrespondences and principles.
By these I havein mind not traditional categories like metaphor,synecdoche, and metonymy-  distinctions thathave basically to do with the kinds of domain cor-respondences that transfer exploits - -  but the var-ious types of operations that make possible type-shifting and sortal reassignment of expressions,syntactic recategorizations, and deferred indexicalreference.
These processes may cross-cut the typesof domain correspondences that they exploit, andI'll show that we often find a single type of domaincorrespondence underlying two or more distinctsemantic processes of transfer.
Third, there arethe language-specific instantiations of these oper-ations, for example in the form of constructionsor lexical rules that license particular types or191subtypes of transfers (for example some language,like Greenlandic Eskimo, permit "grinding" of treenames to yield names of types of woods, but not ofanimal names to yield the names of furs or meats.
)In the first part of this talk, I'll focus on oneof the general processes that underlie transfer: thesemantic operation of "predicate transfer," whichlicenses the sortal reassignment of expressions de-noting properties and relations, and which under-lies a great deal of lexical polysemy.
The processI have in mind is illustrated by an example like "Iam parked out back."
This is usually regarded asa classic instance of metonymy-  i.e.,"person" for"car" - -  where we use an expression that wouldconventionally denote one thing to refer to someother thing to which it is connected by a "rela-tion of contiguity."
But I'll show that on consid-eration there are compelling reasons for supposingthat I here refers to the speaker, rather than hiscar.
(For one thing the number of the pronoundoesn't vary according to the number of cars in-volved: if you had two cars parked out back youwouldn't say "We are parked out back," thoughof course this would be the appropriate thing tosay to refer to a single car owned by two or morepeople).
And other morphological and syntacticobservations support the same conclusion: in ex-amples like this what has been transferred is themeaning of the predicate, rather than its argu-ment.
That is, the predicate parked out back has atransferred reading here: it denotes the propertythat the speaker acquires in virtue of his relationto a car that has the property of being parked outback.Two conditions have to be satisfied beforepredicate transfers like this one are licensed.
First,there has to be a salient correspondence (morespecifically, an injective function) between theproperties of things in one domain and the prop-erties of things in another; e.g., between the lo-cations of cars in a lot and the properties thatdistinguish the owner of one car from the owner ofanother.
Second, it has to be either useful or in-teresting to know that these acquired or inheritedproperties apply to their carriers: that's why wecan say "I am parked out back" to someone whois about to go get the car, whereas it is hard toimagine a context in which one would want to say"I was once driven by R.icardo Montalban.
"I will give a simple formal account of theseconditions on predicate transfer, and then showhow it resolves ome familiar syntactic and seman-tic difficulties.
Take Jackendoff's example, "Ringosqueezed himself into a narrow parking space.
"If we analyze this as involving a metonymy, wewill have to say that the reflexive here denotessomething distinct from its antecedent, and somake provision for certain sortal shifts in givingthe identity conditions on reflexivization and otherrules and constructions ordinarily require corefer-ence of pronoun and antecedent.
Whereas nowwe will take squeeze into a narrow parking placeas a transferred predicate that denotes a relationbetween persons: in virtue of having squeezed hiscar into a space, that is, Ringo has also done some-thing noteworthy to himself.
More generally, I'llargue that the conditions on rules of anaphoraand similar operations need never provide for sor-tal shifts; sortally speaking, we must always take"syntactic identity" in the strictest possible way.In the second part of this paper, I'll show howpredicate transfer is instantiated lexically in therules that provide for systematic polysemy.
I'llmention several familiar cases: grinding, conver-sion of names of artists to the names of their works(e.g., a Picasso, an Agatha Christie, and the useof the names of publications like newspaper andmagazine for the organizations that produce them.Each of these processes is subject to a variety ofconstraints, which may answer any of several dif-ferent principles.
Some are due to the absence ofperceived domain correspondences of the appro-priate type (for example, the reluctance of wordslike mammal and bird to undergo grinding.
Someare explained by the fact that the acquired prop-erty denoted by the transferred predicate is insuf-ficiently noteworthy or criterial: that is why wedon't say She was reading a Kafka.
Still othersare due to the absence of specific lexical licensesfor certain types of transfer; this explains why wedon't generally use the "artist for work" rule to de-rive the names of musical works (?two Beethovens,?several Elvises), or why grinding does not applyin English to derive the names of liquids ?
We al-ways cook with olive.
All of this by way of showingwhy it is important o bear in mind the hetero-geneity of the mechanisms that underlie transfersof all types.192
