THE IMPERFECT IVE  PARADOX ANDTRAJECTORY-OF-MOTION EVENTS *Michae l  Whi teDepar tment  of Computer  and  In format ion  Sc ienceUn ivers i ty  of  Pennsy lvan iaPh i lade lph ia ,  PA,  USAmwhit e?l inc. c is.
upenn, eduAbst ractIn the first part of the paper, I present anew treatment of THE IMPERFI~CTIVE PARADOX(Dowty 1979) for the restricted case of trajectory-of-motion events.
This treatment extends and re-fines those of Moens and Steedman (1988) andJackendoff (1991).
In the second part, I describean implemented algorithm based on this treatmentwhich determines whether a specified sequence ofsuch events is or is not possible under certain sit-uationally supplied constraints and restrictive as-sumptions.In t roduct ionBach (1986:12) summarizes THE IMPERFECTIVEPARADOX (Dowty 1979) as follows: " .
.
.how canwe characterize the meaning of a progressive sen-tence like (la) \[17\] on the basis of the meaning ofa simple sentence like (lb) \[18\] when (la) can betrue of a history without (lb) ever being true?
"(la) John was crossing the street.
(lb) John crossed the street.Citing parallels in the nominal domain, Bach goeson to point out that this puzzle is seemingly muchmore general, insofar as it appears whenever anysort of partitive is employed.
In support of thisview, we may observe that the start v-ing con-struction exhibits the same behavior:(2a) John started jogging to the museum.
(2b) John jogged to the museum.Here we see that (2a) does not entail (2b) - -  while(2b) asserts the occurrence of an entire event ofJohn jogging to the museum, (2a) only asserts the*The author gratefully acknowledges the helpfulcomments of Mark Steedman, Jeff Siskind, ChristyDoran, Matthew Stone, and the anonymous refer-ees, as well as the support of DARPA N00014-90-J-1863, AI~O DAAL03-89-C-0031, NSF IRI 90-16592,Ben Franklin 91S.3078C-1.occurrence of the beginning of such an event, leav-ing open the existential status of its completion.Capitalizing on Bach's insight, I present inthe first part of the paper a new treatment ofthe imperfective paradox which relies on the pos-sibility of having actual events standing in thepart-of relation to hypothetical super-events.
Thistreatment extends and refines those of Moensand Steedman (1988) and Jackendoff (1991), atleast for the restricted case of trajectory-of-motionevents.
1 In particular, the present reatment cor-rectly accounts not only for what (2a) fails to en-tail - -  namely, that John eventually reaches themuseum - -  but also for what (2a) does in fact en-tail - -  namely, that John follows (by jogging) atleast an initial part of a path that leads to themuseum.
In the second part of the paper, I brieflydescribe an implemented algorithm based on thistheoretical treatment which determines whether aspecified sequence of trajectory-of-motion is or isnot possible under certain situationally suppliedconstraints and restrictive assumptions.TheoryThe present treatment builds upon the ap-proach to aspectual composition developed inWhite (1993), a brief sketch of which follows.White (1993) argues that substances, processesand other such entities should be modeled as ab-stract kinds whose realizations (things, events,etc.)
vary in amount.
2 This is accomplished for-mally through the use of an order-sorted logicwith an axiomatized collection of binary relations.The intended sort hierarchy is much like thoseof Eberle (1990) and Jackendoff (1991); in par-ticular, both substances and things are taken tobe subsorts of the material entities, and similarly1These are elsewhere called 'directed-motion'events.2This move is intended to resolve certain empiricaland computational problems with the view of refer-ential homogeneity espoused by Krifka (1992) and hispredecessors.283both processes and events are taken to be sub-sorts of the non-stative ventualities.
What is newis the axiomatization of Jackendoff's composed-ofrelation (comp) - -  which effects the aforemen-tioned kind-to-realization mapping - -  in terms ofKrifka's (1992) part-of relation (_U).
Of particularinterest is the following subpart closure property:(3) Vxyly2\[comp(x)(yx) A y2C_yl --~ comp(x)(y2)\]Postulate (3) states that all subparts of a realiza-tion of a given kind are also realizations of thatkind.
3 From this postulate it follows, for example,that if e is a process of John running along theriver which has a realization el lasting ten min-utes, and if e2 is a subevent of el - -  the first half,say - -  then e2 is also a realization of e. As such,this postulate may be used to make John ran alongthe river for ten minutes entail John ran along theriver for five minutes, in contrast o the pair Johnran to lhe museum in ten minutes and John ranto lhe museum in five minules.In order to resolve the imperfective paradox,we may extend White (1993) by adding a mappingfrom events to processes (whose realizations neednot terminate in the same way), as well as a meansfor distinguishing actual and hypothetical events.To do the former, we may axiomatize comp's  in-verse mapping - -  Jackendoff's ground-from (gr)- -  again in terms of Krifka's part-of relation.
Thisis shown below:(4) VxylY2\[gr(yl)(X ) A comp(x)(y2) ---* y2C_yl\]Postulate (4) simply requires that all the realiza-tions e2 of a process e which is 'ground from' anevent el must be subevents of el (and likewise,mutatis mutandis, for substances and things).
Asthe realizations e2 of e may be proper subevents ofel, the relation gr provides a means for accessingsubevents of el with alternate terminations.To distinguish those events which actually oc-cur from those that are merely hypothetical, wemay simply introduce a special predicate Actual ,which we require to preserve the part-of relationonly in the downwards direction:(5) Vxy\[Actual(z) A yU_z --* Actual(y)\]Postulate (5) is necessary to get John slopped run-ning to the museum after ten minutes to entailJohn ran for ten minutes as well as John ran fornine minutes, but not John ran for eleven min-utes.At this point we are ready to examine in somedetail how the above machinery may be used inresolving the imperfective paradox.
Let us assume3For the sake of simplicity I will not address theminimal parts problem here.that sentences uch as (6) receive compositionaltranslations as in (7):(6a) John ran to the bridge.
(6b) John stopped running to the bridge.
(7a) 3e l .run'( j)(el)  A to'(the'(bridge'))(r~(el)) AActual(el)(7b) 3eele2e3.run'( j )(el)  A to'(the'(bridge'))(rs(el))Agr(el)(e) A comp(e)(e2) A stop'(e2)(ea) AActual(e3)In (7), el is an event of John running to thebridge.
4 In (Ta), this event is asserted to be actual;in (7b), in contrast, the progressive morphology onrun triggers the introduction of gr, which mapsel to the process e. 5 It is this process which e3 isan event of stopping: following Jackendoff (1991),this is represented here by introducing an event e~composed of e which has ea as its stopping point.Naturally enough, we may expect the actualityof e3 to entail the actuality of e2, and thus allsubevents of e2.
Nevertheless, the actuality of etdoes not follow, as Postulate (4) permits e2 to bea proper subpart of el (which is pragmatically themost likely case).To make the semantics developed so far moreconcrete, we may now impose a particular inter-pretation on trajectory-of-motion events, namelyone in which these are modeled as continuous func-tions from times to locations of the object in mo-tion.
Depending on how we model objects andlocations, we of course arrive at interpretations ofvarying complexity.
In what follows we focus onlyon the simplest such interpretation, which takesboth to be points.Note that by assuming the preceding inter-pretation of trajectory-of-motion events, we mayinterpret he relation _ as the relation continuous-subset.
Furthermore, we may also interpret pro-cesses as sets of events closed under the v- rela-tion; this then permits comp to be interpretedas element-of, and gr (for events) as mapping anevent to the smallest process containing it.
Beforecontinuing, we may observe that this interpreta-tion does indeed satisfy Postulates (3) and (4).ApplicationWhile the above interpretation of trajectory-of-motion events forces one to abstract away from*The spatial trace function r~ maps eventualities totheir trajectories (cf.
White 1993).5Much as in Moens and Steedman (1988) and Jack-endoff (1991), the introduction of gr is necessary toavoid having an ill-sorted formula.284the manner of motion supplied by a verb, it doesnevertheless permit one to consider factors such asthe normal speed as well as the meanings of theprepositions 10, lowards, etc.
By making two ad-ditional restrictive assumptions, namely that theseevents be of constant velocity and in one dimen-sion, I have been able to construct and implementan algorithm which determines whether a speci-fied sequence of such events is or is not possibleunder certain situationally supplied constraints.These constraints include the locations of variouslandmarks (assumed to remain stationary) and theminimum, maximum, and normal rates associatedwith various manners of motion (e.g.
running, jog-ging) for a given individual.The algorithm takes an input string and com-positionally derives a sequence of logical forms(one for each sentence) using a simple categorialgrammar (most of which appears in White 1993).A special-purpose procedure is then used to in-stantiate the described sequence of events as a con-straint optimization problem; note that althoughthis procedure is quite ad-hoc, the constraints arerepresented in a declarative, hierarchical fashion(cf.
White 1993).
If the constraint optimiza-tion problem has a solution, it is found using aslightly modified version of the constraint satis-faction procedure built into SCaEAMER, Siskindand McAllester's (1993) portable, efficient versionof nondeterministic Common Lisp.
6As an example of an impossible description,let us consider the sequence of events describedbelow:(8) Guy started jogging eastwards Mong the river.25 minutes later he reached {the cafe / themuseum}.If we assume that the user specifies the cafe andthe museum to be 5 and 10 km, respectively, fromthe implicit starting point, and that the rates spec-ified for Guy are those of a serious but not super-human athlete, then the algorithm will only finda solution for the first case (10 km in 25 minutesis too much to expect.)
Now, by reasoning aboutsubevents - -  here, subsegments of lines in space-time - -  the program exhibits the same behaviorwith the pair in (9):(9) Guy started jogging to the bar.
25 minuteslater he reached {the cafe / the museum}.Since "Guy jogging to the cafe is accepted as apossible proper subevent of Guy jogging to the6The constraint optimization problem is split intotwo constraint satisfaction problems, namely find-ing the smallest consistent value of a cost variableand then finding consistent values for the rest of thevariables.bar (assuming the bar is further east than theother landmarks), example (9) shows how thepresent approach successfully avoids the imperfec-tire paradox; since Guy jogging to the museum (in25 minutes) is not accepted as a possible subevent,example (9) likewise shows how the present ap-proach extends and refines those of Moens andSteedman and 3ackendoff vis-a-vis the subeventrelation.7Future  WorkThe algorithm as implemented functions only un-der a number of quite restrictive assumptions, andsuffers from a rather ad-hoc use of the derived logi-cal forms.
In future work I intend to extend the al-gorithm beyond the unidimensional nd constantvelocity cases considered so far, and to investigateincorporating the present treatment into the In-terpretation as Abduction approach advocated byHobbs et.
al.
(1993).Re ferences\[1\] Emmon Bach.
The algebra of events.
Linguistics andPhilosophy, 1986.\[2\] David R. Dowty.
Word Meaning and Montague Gram-mar.
Reidel, 1979.\[3\] Kurt Eberle.
Eventualities in natural language under-standing systems.
In Sorts and Types in Artificial Intel-ligence.
Springer Verlag, 1990.\[4\] Christopher Habel.
Propositional and depictorial rep-resentations of spatial knowledge: The case of path-concepts.
In Natural Language and Logic.
Springer Ver-lag, 1990.
Lecture Notes in Artificial Intelligence.\[5\] Erhard Hinrichs.
A Compositional Semantics for  Ak-tionsarten and NP Reference in English.
PhD thesis,The Ohio State University, 1985.\[61 Jerry Hobbs, Mark Stickel, Douglas Appelt, and PaulMartin.
Interpretation as abduction, 1993.
To appearin Artificial Intelligence Journal.\[7\] Ray Jackendoff.
Parts and boundaries.
Cognition, 41:9-45, 1991.\[g\] Manfred Krifka.
Thematic relations as links between nom-inal reference and temporal constitution.
In Ivan A, Sagand Anna Szabolesi, editors, Lexical Matters.
CSLI, 1992.\[9\] Marc Moens and Mark Steedman.
Temporal ontologyand temporal reference.
Computational Linguistics, June1988.\[10\] Jeffrey Mark Siskind and David Allen McAllester.
Non-deterministic lisp as a substrate for constraint logic pro-gramming.
To appear in AAAI-93, 1993.\[11\] H. J. Verkuyl.
Aspectual classes and aspectual composi-tion.
Linguistics and Philosophy, 12(1), 1989.\[12\] Michael White.
Delimitedness and trajectory-of-motionevents.
In Proceedings of the Sixth Conference of theEuropean Chapter of the Association for  ComputationalLinguistics (EACL '93), 1993.7It is worth noting that the constant velocity re-strictive assumption makes start running to and startrunning towards synonymous, which is not the case ingeneral (cf.
Habel 1990).285
