A SPEECH-FIRST MODEL FOR REPAIR DETECTION ANDCORRECTIONChristine NakataniDivis ion o f  App l ied  Sc iencesHarvard  Univers i tyCambr idge,  MA 02138chn@das,  harvard,  eduJulia Hirschberg2D-450,  AT&T Bel l  Laborator ies600 Mounta in  AvenueMurray  Hil l ,  NJ  07974-0636j u l ia@research ,  att.
comAbstractInterpreting fully natural speech is an important goalfor spoken language understanding systems.
However,while corpus studies have shown that about 10% ofspontaneous tterances contain self-corrections, or RE-PAIRS, little is known about he extent o which cues inthe speech signal may facilitate repair processing.
Weidentify several cues based on acoustic and prosodicanalysis of repairs in a corpus of spontaneous speech,and propose methods for exploiting these cues to detectand correct repairs.
We test our acoustic-prosodic cueswith other lexical cues to repair identification and findthat precision rates of 89-93% and recall of 78-83%can be achieved, depending upon the cues employed,from a prosodically abeled corpus.IntroductionDisfluencies in spontaneous speech pose serious prob-lems for spoken language systems.
First, a speakermay produce a partial word or FRAGMENT, a string ofphonemes that does not form the complete intendedword.
Some fragments may coincidentally matchwords actually in the lexicon, such as fly in Exam-ple (1); others will be identified with the acousticallyclosest item(s) in the lexicon, as in Example (2).
1(1) What is the earliest fli- flight from Washington toAtlanta leaving on Wednesday September fourth?
(2) Actual string: What is the fare fro-  on AmericanAirlines fourteen forty threeRecognized string: With fare four American Air-lines fourteen forty threeEven if all words in a disfluent segment are correctlyrecognized, failure to detect a disfluency may lead tointerpretation errors during subsequent processing, asin Example (3).1The presence ofa word fragment inexamples i indicatedby the diacritic '-'.
Self-corrected portions of the utteranceappear in boldface.
All examples in this paper are drawnfrom the ATIS corpus described below.
Recognition outputshown in Example (2) is from the system described in (Leeet al, 1990).
(3) .
.
.
Delta leaving Boston seventeen twenty one ar-riving Fort Worth twenty two twenty one forty.
.
.Here, 'twenty two twenty one forty' must be interpretedas a flight arrival time; the system must somehowchoose among '21:40', '22:21', and '22:40'.Although studies of large speech corpora havefound that approximately 10% of spontaneous tter-ances contain disfluencies involving self-correction, orREPAIRS (Hindle, 1983; Shriberg et al, 1992), little isknown about how to integrate repair processing withreal-time speech recognition.
In particular, the speechsignal itself has been relatively unexplored as a sourceof processing cues for the detection and correction ofrepairs.
In this paper, we present results from a study ofthe acoustic and prosodic haracteristics of 334 repairutterances, containing 368 repair instances, from theAROA Air Travel Information System (ATIS) database.Our results are interpreted within our "speech-first"framework for investigating repairs, the REPAIR IN-TERVAL MODEL (RIM).
RIM builds upon Labov (1966)and Hindle (1983) by conceptually extending the EDITSIGNAL HYPOTHESIS - -  that repairs are acoustically orphonetically marked at the point of interruption of flu-ent speech.
After describing acoustic and prosodiccharacteristics of the repair instances in our corpus, weuse these and other lexical cues to test the utility ofour "speech-first" approach to repair identification ona prosodically abeled corpus.Previous Computational ApproachesWhile self-correction has long been a topic of psy-cholinguistic study, computational work in this areahas been sparse.
Early work in computational linguis-tics treated repairs as one type of ill-formed input andproposed solutions based upon extensions to existingtext parsing techniques such as augmented transitionnetworks (ATNs), network-based semantic grammars,case frame grammars, pattern matching and determin-istic parsers.Recently, Shriberg et al (1992) and Bear etal.
(1992) have proposed a two-stage method for pro-cessing repairs.
In the first stage, lexical pattern46matching rules operating on orthographic transcrip-tions would be used to retrieve candidate repair utter-ances.
In the second, syntactic, semantic, and acousticinformation would filter true repairs from false posi-tives found by the pattern matcher.
Results of testingthe first stage of this model, the lexical pattern matcher,are reported in (Bear et al, 1992): 309 of 406 utterancecontaining 'nontrivial' repairs in their 10,718 utterancecorpus were correctly identified, while 191 fluent utter-ances were incorrectly identified as containing repairs.This represents recall of 76% with precision of 62%.Of the repairs correctly identified, the appropriate cor-rection was found for 57%.
Repaj'r candidates werefiltered and corrected by deleting a portion of the ut-terance based on the pattern matched, and then check-ing the syntactic and semantic acceptability of the cor-rected version using the syntactic and semantic om-ponents of the Gemini NLP system.
Bear et al (1992)also speculate that acoustic information might be usedto filter out false positives for candidates matching twoof their lexical patterns - -  repetitions of single wordsand cases of single inserted words - -  but do not reportsuch experimentation.This work promotes the important idea that auto-matic repair processing can be made more robust byintegrating knowledge from multiple sources.
Suchintegration is a desirable long-term goal.
However,the working assumption that correct ranscriptions willbe available from speech recognizers i problematic,since current recognition systems rely primarily uponlanguage models and lexicons derived from fluentspeech to decide among competing acoustic hypothe-ses.
These systems usually treat disfluencies intrainingand recognition as noise; moreover, they have no wayof modeling word fragments, even though these occurin the majority of repairs.
We term such approachesthat rely on accurate transcription to identify repaircandidates "text-first".Text-first approaches have explored the potentialcontributions of lexical and grammatical informationto automatic repair processing, but have largely leftopen the question of whether there exist acoustic andprosodic ues for repairs in general, rather than po-tential acoustic-prosodic f lters for particular patternsubclasses.
Our investigation of repairs addresses theproblem of identifying such general acoustic-prosodiccues to repairs, and so we term our approach "speech-first".
Finding such cues to repairs would provide arlydetection of repairs in recognition, permitting earlypruning of the hypothesis space.One proposal for repair processing that lends it-self to both incremental processing and the integrationof speech cues into repair detection is that of Hindle(1983), who defines a typology of repairs and asso-ciated correction strategies in terms of extensions toa deterministic parser.
For Hindle, repairs can be (1)full sentence r starts, in which an entire utterance is re-initiated; (2) constituent repairs, in which one syntacticconstituent (or part thereof) is replaced by another; 2 or(3) surface level repairs, in which identical strings ap-pear adjacent to each other.
An hypothesized acoustic-phonetic edit signal, "a markedly abrupt cut-off ofthe speech signal" (Hindle, 1983, p.123), is assumedto mark the interruption of fluent speech (cf.
(Labov,1966)).
This signal is treated as a special lexical item inthe parser input stream that triggers certain correctionstrategies depending on the parser configuration.
Thus,in Hindle's system, repair detection is decoupled fromrepair correction, which requires only that the locationof the interruption is stored in the parser state.Importantly, Hindle's system allows for non-surface-based corrections and sequential applicationof correction rules (Hindle, 1983, p. 123).
In con-trast, simple surface deletion correction strategies can-not readily handle ither epairs in which one syntacticconstituent is replaced by an entirely different one, asin Example (4), or sequences of overlapping repairs,as in Example (5).
(4) I 'd like to a flight from Washington to Denver..
.
(5) I 'd like to book a reser- are there f -  is there afirst class fare for the flight that departs at six fortyp.m.Hindle's methods achieved a success rate of 97%on a transcribed corpus of approximately 1,500 sen-tences in which the edit signal was orthographicallyrepresented and lexical and syntactic ategory assign-ments hand-corrected, indicating that, in theory, theedit signal can be computationally exploited for bothrepair detection and correction.
Our "speech-first" in-vestigation of repairs is aimed at determining the extentto which repair processing algorithms can rely on theedit signal hypothesis n practice.The Repair  Interval ModelTo support our investigation of acoustic-prosodic cuesto repair detection, we propose a "speech-first" modelof repairs, the REPAIR INTERVAL MODEL (RIM).
RIM di-vides the repair event into three consecutive t mporalintervals and identifies time points within those inter-vals that are computationally critical.
A full repaircomprises three intervals, the REPARANDUM INTERVAL,the DISFLUENCY INTERVAL, and the REPAIR INTERVAL.Following Levelt (1983), we identify the REPARANDUMas the lexicai material which is to be repaired.
The endof the reparandum coincides with the termination ofthe fluent portion of the utterance, which we term theINTERRUPTION SITE (IS).
The DISFLUENCY INTERVAL(nI) extends from the IS to the resumption of fluentspeech, and may contain any combination of silence,pause fillers ('uh', 'urn'), or CUE PHRASES (e.g., 'Oops'2This is consistent with Levelt (1983)'s observation thatthe material to be replaced and the correcting material in arepair often share structural properties akin to those sharedby coordinated constituents.47or 'I mean'), which indicate the speaker's recognitionof his/her performance error.
The REPAIR INTERVALcorresponds tothe utterance of the correcting material,which is intended to 'replace' the reparandum.
It ex-tends from the offset of the DI tO the resumption ofnon-repair speech.
In Example (6), for example, thereparandum occurs from 1 to 2, the DI from 2 to 3, andthe repair interval from 3 to 4; the Is occurs at 2.
(6) Give me airlines 1 \[ flying to Sa- \] 2 \[ SILENCEuh SILENCE \] 3 \[ flying to Boston \] 4 from SanFrancisco next summer that have business class.RIM provides a framework for testing the extentto which cues from the speech signal contribute tothe identification and correction of repair utterances.RIM incorporates two main assumptions of Hindle(1983): (1) correction strategies are linguisticallyrule-governed, and (2) linguistic ues must be available tosignal when a disfluency has occurred and to 'trigger'correction strategies.
As Hindle noted, if the process-ing of disfluencies were not rule-governed, it wouldbe difficult o reconcile the infrequent intrusion of dis-fluencies on human speech comprehension, especiallyfor language learners, with their frequent rate of oc-currence in spontaneous speech.
We view Hindle'sresults as evidence supporting (1).
Our study tests(2) by exploring the acoustic and prosodic features ofrepairs that might serve as a form of edit signal forrule-governed correction strategies.While Labov and Hindle proposed that anacoustic-phonetic cue might exist at precisely the Is,based on our analyses and on recent psychotinguisticexperiments (Lickley et al, 1991), this proposal ap-pears too limited.
Crucially, in RIM, we extend thenotion of edit signal to include any phenomenon whichmay contribute to the perception of an "abrupt cut-off"of the speech signal - -  including cues such as coartic-ulation phenomena, word fragments, interruption glot-talization, pause, and prosodic ues which occur in thevicinity of the disfluency interval.
RIM thus acknowl-edges the edit signal hypothesis, that some aspect ofthe speech signal may demarcate the computationallykey juncture between the reparandum and repair inter-vals, while extending its possible acoustic and prosodicmanifestations.Acoustic-Prosodic Characteristics ofRepairsWe studied the acoustic and prosodic correlates ofrepair events as defined in the RIM framework withthe aim of identifying potential cues for automatic re-pair processing, extending a pilot study reported in(Nakatani and Hirschberg, 1993).
Our corpus for thecurrent study consisted of 6,414 utterances producedby 123 speakers from the ARPA Airline Travel and In-formation System (ATIS) database (MADCOW, 1992)collected at AT&T, BBN, CMU, SRI, and TL 334 (5.2%)of these utterances contain at least one repair~ whererepair is defined as the self-correction of one or morephonemes (up to and including sequences of words)in an utterance) Orthographic transcriptions of theutterances were prepared by ARPA contractors accord-ing to standardized conventions.
The utterances werelabeled at Bell Laboratories for word boundaries andintonational prominences and phrasing following Pier-rehumbert's description of English intonation (Pierre-humbert, 1980).
Also, each of the three RIM intervalsand prosodic and acoustic events within those intervalswere labeled.Identifying the Reparandum IntervalOur acoustic and prosodic analysis of the reparan-dum interval focuses on acoustic-phonetic propertiesof word fragments, as well as additional phonetic uesmarking the reparandum offset.
From the point of viewof repair detection and correction, acoustic-prosodiccues to the onset of the reparandum would clearly beuseful in the choice of appropriate correction strat-egy.
However, recent perceptual experiments indicatethat humans do not detect an oncoming disfluency asearly as the onset of the reparandum (Lickley et al,1991; Lickley and Bard, 1992).
Subjects were gen-erally able to detect disfluencies before lexical accessof the first word in the repair.
However, since onlya small number of the test stimuli employed in theseexperiments contained reparanda ending in word frag-ments (Lickley et al, 1991), it is not clear how togeneralize results to such repairs.
In our corpus, 74%of all reparanda end in word fragments.
4Since the majority of our repairs involve word frag-mentation, we analyzed several exical and acoustic-phonetic properties of fragments for potential use infragment identification.
Table 1 shows the broad wordclass of the speaker's intended word for each fragment,where the intended word was recoverable.
There isLexical ClassContentFunctionUntranscribedTokens %121 42%12 4%155 54%Table 1: Lexical Class of Word Fragments at Reparan-dum Offset (N=288)a clear tendency for fragmentation at the reparandumoffset to occur in content words rather than functionwords.3In our pilot study of the SRI and TI utterances only, wefound that repairs occurred in 9.1% of utterances (Nakataniand Hirschberg, 1993).
This rate is probably more accuratethan the 5.2% we find in our current corpus, since repairs forthe pilot study were identified from more detailed transcrip-tions than were available for the larger corpus.4Shriberg et al (1992) found that 60.2% of repairs in theircorpus contained fragments.48Table 2 shows the distribution of fragment repairsby length.
91% of fragments in our corpus are onesyllable or less in length.
Table 3 shows the distri-Syllables Tokens %0 113 39%1 149 52%2 25 9%3 1 0.3%Table 2: Length of Reparandum Offset Word Frag-ments (N=288)bution of initial phonemes for all words in the corpusof 6,414 ATIS sentences, and for all fragments, inglesyllable fragments, and single consonant fragments inrepair utterances.
From Table 3 we see that single con-Classstopvowelfricnasal/glide/liquidhN% of % ofWords Frags23% 23% 30%25% 13% 19%33% 45% 28%% of One % of OneSyll Frags Cons Frags18% 17% 20%1% 2% 4%64896 28811%0%73%15%1%148 114Table 3: Feature Class of Initial Phoneme in Fragmentsby Fragment Lengthsonant fragments occur more than six times as often asfricatives than as stops.
However, fricatives and stopsoccur almost equally as the initial consonant in singlesyllable fragments.
Furthermore, we observe two di-vergences from the underlying distributions of initialphonemes for all words in the corpus.
Vowel-initialwords show less tendency and fricative-initial wordsshow a greater tendency to occur as fragments, relativeto the underlying distributions for those classes.Two additional acoustic-phonetic cues, glottaliza-tion and coarticulation, may help in fragment identi-fication.
Bear et al (1992) note that INTERRUPTIONGLO'I~ALIZATION (irregular glottal pulses) sometimesoccurs at the reparandum offset.
This form of glot-talization is acoustically distinct from LARYNGEALIZA-TION (creaky voice), which often occurs at the end ofprosodic phrases; GLOTTAL STOPS, which often pre-cede vowel-initial words; and EPENTHETIC GLOTTAL-tZATtON.
In our corpus, 30.2% of reparanda offsetsare marked by interruption glottalization.
5 Althoughinterruption glottalization is usually associated withfragments, not all fragments are glottalized.
In ourdatabase, 62% of fragments are not glottalized, and9% of glottalized reparanda offsets are not fragments.5Shriberg et al (1992) report glottalization on 24 of 25vowel-final fragments.Also, sonorant endings of fragments in our corpussometimes exhibit coarticulatory effects of an unre-alized subsequent phoneme.
When these effects occurwith a following pause (see below), they can be usedto distinguish fragments from full phrase-final words- -  such as 'f l i- ' from 'fly' in Example (1).To summarize, our corpus shows that mostreparanda offsets end in word fragments.
These frag-ments are usually fragments of content words (basedupon transcribers' identification of intended words inour corpus), are rarely more than one syllable long,exhibit different distributions of initial phoneme classdepending on their length, and are sometimes glottal-ized and sometimes exhibit coarticulatory effects ofmissing subsequent phonemes.
These findings uggestthat it is unlikely that word-based recognition mod-els can be applied directly to the problem of fragmentidentification.
Rather, models for fragment identifica-tion might make use of initial phoneme distributions,in combination with information on fragment lengthand acoustic-phonetic events at the IS.
Inquiry intothe articulatory bases of several of these properties ofself-interrupted speech, such as glottalization and ini-tial phoneme distributions, may further improve themodeling of fragments.Identifying the Disfluency IntervalIn the RIM model, the D/includes all cue phrases andfilled and unfilled pauses from the offset of the reparan-dum to the onset o.f the repair.
The literature contains anumber of hypotheses about his interval (cf.
(Black-met and Mitton, 1991).
For our corpus, pause fillersor cue words, which have been hypothesized as repaircues, occur within the DI for only 9.8% (332/368) ofrepairs, and so cannot be relied on for repair detection.Our findings do, however, support a new hypothesisassociating fragment repairs and the duration of pausefollowing the IS.Table 4 shows the average duration of 'silent DI'S(those not containing pause fillers or cue words) com-pared to that of fluent utterance-internal silent pausesfor the Tt utterances.
Overall, silent DIS are shorterPausal Juncture Mean Std DevFluent 513 msec 676 msecDI 333 msec 417 msecFrags 292 msec 379 msecNon-frags 471 msec 502 msecN118633225577Table 4: Duration of Silent DIS vs. Utterance-InternalFluent Pausesthan fluent pauses (p<.001, tstat=4.60, df=1516).
Ifwe analyze repair utterances based on occurrence offragments, the DI duration for fragment repairs issignificantly shorter than for nonfragments (p<.001,tstat=3.36, df=330).
The fragment repair DI durationis also significantly shorter than fluent pause intervals49(p<.001, tstat=5.05, df=1439), while there is no sig-nificant difference between onfragment DIS and fluentutterances.
So, DIS in general appear to be distinct fromfluent pauses, and the duration of DIS in fragment re-pairs might also be exploited to identify these cases asrepairs, as well as to distinguish them from nonfrag-ment repairs.
Thus, pausal duration may serve as ageneral acoustic ue for repair detection, particularlyfor the class of fragment repairs.Identifying the RepairSeveral influential studies of acoustic-prosodic repaircues have relied upon texical, semantic, and prag-matic definitions of repair types (Levelt and Cutler,1983; Levelt, 1983).
Levelt & Cutler (1983) claim thatrepairs of erroneous information (ERROR REPAIRS) aremarked by increased intonational prominence on thecorrecting information, while other kinds of repairs,such as additions to descriptions (APPROPRIATENESSREPAIRS), generally are not.
We investigated whetherthe repair interval is marked by special intonationalprominence relative to the reparandum for all repairsin our corpus and for these particular classes of repair.To obtain objective measures of relative promi-nence, we compared absolute f0 and energy in thesonorant center of the last accented lexical item in thereparandum with that of the first accented item in therepair interval.
6 We found a small but reliable increasein f0 from the end of the reparandum tothe beginning ofthe repair (mean--4.1 Hz, p<.01, tstat=2.49, df=327).There was also a small but reliable increase in ampli-tude across the oI (mean=+l.5 db, p<.001, tstat=6.07,df=327).
We analyzed the same phenomena crossutterance-internal fluent pauses for the ATIS TI set andfound no reliable differences in either f0 or intensity,although this may have been due to the greater variabil-ity in the fluent population.
And when we comparedthe f0 and amplitude changes from reparandum to re-pair with those observed for fluent pauses, we found nosignificant differences between the two populations.So, while differences in f0 and amplitude xistbetween the reparandum offset and the repair onset,we conclude that these differences are too small helpdistinguish repairs from fluent speech.
Although it isnot entirely straightforward to compare our objectivemeasures of intonational prominence with Levelt andCutler's perceptual findings, our results provide onlyweak support for theirs.
And while we find small butsignificant changes in two correlates of intonationalprominence, the distributions of change in f0 and en-ergy for our data are unimodal; when we further testsubclasses of Levelt and Cutler's error repairs and ap-propriateness repairs, statistical analysis does not sup-6We performed the same analysis for the last and firstsyllables in the reparandum and repair, respectively, and fornormalized f0 and energy; results did not substantially differfrom those presented here.port Levelt and Cutler's claim that the former - -  andonly the former - -  group is intonationally 'marked'.Previous tudies of disfluency have paid consider-able attention to the vicinity of the DI but little to therepair offset.
Although we did not find comparative in-tonationai prominence across the DI tO be a promisingcue for repair detection, our RIM analysis uncoveredone general intonational cue that may be of use forrepair correction, namely the prosodic phrasing of therepair interval.
We propose that phrase boundaries atthe repair offset can serve to delimit the region overwhich subsequent correction strategies may operate.We tested the idea that repair interval offsetsare intonationally marked by either minor or majorprosodic phrase boundaries intwo ways.
First, we usedthe phrase prediction procedure reported by Wang &Hirschberg (1992) to estimate whether the phrasing atthe repair offset was predictable according to a modelof fluent phrasing.
7 Second, we analyzed the syntacticand lexical properties of the first major or minor intona-tional phrase including all or part of the repair intervalto determine whether such phrasal units correspondedto different ypes of repairs in terms of Hindle's typol-ogy.The first analysis tested the hypothesis that repairinterval offsets are intonationally delimited by minor ormajor prosodic phrase boundaries.
We found that therepair offset co-occurs with minor phrase boundariesfor 49% of repairs in the TI set.
To see whether theseboundaries were distinct from those in fluent speech,we compared the phrasing of repair utterances withthe phrasing predicted for the corresponding correctedversion of the utterance identified by ATIS transcribers.For 40% of all repairs, an observed boundary occurs atthe repair offset where one is predicted; and for 33%of all repairs, no boundary is observed where noneis predicted.
For the remaining 27% of repairs forwhich predicted phrasing diverged from observed, in10% of cases a boundary occurred where none waspredicted and in 17%, no boundary occurred when onewas predicted.In addition to differences at the repair offset,we also found more general differences from pre-dicted phrasing over the entire repair interval, whichwe hypothesize may be partly understood as follows:Two strong predictors of prosodic phrasing in flu-ent speech are syntactic constituency (Cooper andSorenson, 1977; Gee and Grosjean, 1983; Selkirk,1984), especially the relative inviolability of nounphrases (Wang and Hirschberg, 1992), and the length ofprosodic phrases (Gee and Grosjean, 1983; Bachenko7Wang & Hirschberg use statistical modeling techniquesto predict phrasing from a large corpus of labeled ATIS speech;we used a prediction tree that achieves 88.4% accuracy onthe ATIS TI corpus using only features whose values could becalculated via automatic text analysis.
Results reported hereare for prediction on only TI repair utterances.50and Fitzpatrick, 1990).
On the one hand, we found oc-currences of phrase boundaries at repair offsets whichoccurred within larger NPs, as in Example (7), whereit is precisely the noun modifier - -  not the entire nounphrase - -  which is corrected.
8(7) Show me all n-  \[ round-trip flights \[ from Pittsburgh\[ to Atlanta.We speculate that, by marking off the modifier intona-tionaily, a speaker may signal that operations relatingjust this phrase to earlier portions of the utterance canachieve the proper correction of the disfluency.
Wealso found cases of 'lengthened' intonational phrasesin repair intervals, as illustrated in the single-phrasereparandum in (8), where the corresponding fluent ver-sion of the reparandum is predicted to contain fourphrases.
(8) What airport is it \[ is located \[ what is the nameof the airport located in San FranciscoAgain, we hypothesize that the role played by this un-usually long phrase is the same as that of early phraseboundaries in NPS discussed above.
In both cases, thephrase boundary delimits a meaningful unit for sub-sequent correction strategies.
For example, we mightunderstand the multiple repairs in (8) as follows: Firstthe speaker attempts a vP repair, with the repair phrasedelimited by a single prosodic phrase 'is located'.
Thenthe initially repaired utterance 'What airport is located'is itself repaired, with the reparadum again delimitedby a single prosodic phrase, 'What is the name of theairport located in San Francisco'.In the second analysis of lexical and syntacticproperties, we found three major classes of phras-ing behaviors, all involving the location of the firstphrase boundary after the repair onset: First, for 44%(163/368) of repairs, the repair offset we had initiallyidentified 9 coincides with a phrase boundary, whichcan thus be said to mark off the repair interval.
Of theremaining 205 repairs, more than two-thirds (140/205)have the first phrase boundary after the repair onsetat the right edge of a syntactic onstituent.
We pro-pose that this class of repairs should be identified asconstituent repairs, rather than the lexical repairs wehad initially hypothesized.
For the majority of theseconstituent repairs (79%, 110/140), the repair intervalcontains a well-formed syntactic onstituent (see Ta-ble 5).
If the repair interval does not form a syntacticconstituent, i  is most often an NP-internal repair (77%,23/30).
The third class of repairs includes those inwhich the first boundary after the repair onset occursneither at the repair offset nor at the right edge of a syn-tactic onstituent.
This class contains urface or lexical8Prosodic boundaries inexamples are indicated by '1'.9Note crucially here that, in labeling repairs which mightbe viewed as either constituent or lexical, we preferred theshorter lexical analysis by default.Repair Constituent TokensSentence 24Verb phrase 7Participial phrase 6Noun phrase 38Prepositional phrase 34Relative clause 1%22%6%5%35%31%0.9%Table 5: Distribution of Syntactic Categories for Con-stituent Repairs (N= 110)repairs (where the first phrase boundary in the repairinterval delimits a sequence of one or more repeatedwords), phonetic errors, word insertions, and syntacticreformulations (as in Example (4)).
It might be notedhere that, in general, repairs involving correction ofeither verb phrases or verbs are far less common thanthose involving noun phrases, prepositional phrases, orsentences.We briefly note evidence against one alternative(although not mutually exclusive) hypothesis, that theregion to be delimited correction strategies i markednot by a phrase boundary near the repair offset, but bya phrase boundary at the onset of the reparandum.
Inother words, it may be the reparandum interval, not therepair interval, that is intonationally delimited.
How-ever, it is often the case that the last phrase boundarybefore the IS occurs at the left edge of a major syn-tactic constituent (42%, (87/205), even though majorconstituent repairs are about one third as frequent inthis corpus (15%, 31/205).
In contrast, phrase bound-aries occur at the left edge of minor constituents 27%(55/205) of the time, whereas minor constituent re-pairs make up 39% (79/205) of the subcorpus at hand.We take these figures as general evidence against heoutlined alternative hypothesis, establishing that thedemarcation repair offset is a more productive goal forrepair processing algorithms.Investigation of repair phrasing in other corporacovering a wider variety of genres is needed in orderto assess the generality of these findings.
For exam-ple, 35% (8/23) of NP-internal constituent repairs oc-curred within cardinal compounds, which are prevalentin the nTIS corpus due to its domain.
The preponder-ance of temporal and locative prepositional phrasesmay also be attributed to the nature of the task anddomain.
Nonetheless, the fact that repair offsets in ourcorpus are marked by intonational phrase boundariesin such a large percentage of cases (82.3%, 303/368),suggests that this is a possibility worth pursuing.Predicting Repairs from Acoustic andProsodic CuesDespite the small size of our sample and the possiblylimited generality of our corpus, we were interestedto see how well the characterization f repairs derived51from RIM analysis of the ATIS COrpUS would transferto a predictive model for repairs in that domain.
Weexamined 374 ATIS repair utterances, including the 334upon which the descriptive study presented above wasbased.
We used the 172 TI and SRI repair utterancesfrom our earlier pilot study (Nakatani and Hirschberg,1993) as training date; these served a similar purposein the descriptive analysis presented above.
We thentested on the additional 202 repair utterances, whichcontained 223 repair instances.
In our predictions weattemped to distinguish repair Is from fluent phraseboundaries (collapsing major and minor boundaries),non-repair disfluencies, 1?and simple word boundaries.We considered every word boundary to be a potentialrepair site.
11 Data points are represented below asordered pairs <wl,wj >, where wi represents he lexicalitem to the left of the potential IS and wj represents haton the right.For each <wi,wj >, we examined the followingfeatures as potential Is predictors: (a) duration of pausebetween wi and wj; (b) occurrence of a word frag-ment(s) within <w~,wj >; (c) occurrence of a filledpause in <wi,wj >; (d) amplitude (energy) peak withinwi, both absolute and normalized for the utterance; (e)amplitude of wi relative to wi- i  and to wj; (f) abso-lute and normalized f0 of wi; (g) f0 of wi relative towi- i  and to wj; and (h) whether or not wi was ac-cented, deaccented, or deaccented and cliticized.
Wealso simulated some simple pattern matching strate-gies, to try to determine how acoustic-prosodic cuesmight interact with lexical cues in repair identification.To this end, we looked at (i) the distance in words ofwi from the beginning and end of the utterance; (j) thetotal number of words in the utterance; and (k) whetherwi or wi-1 recurred in the utterance within a windowof three words after wi.
We were unable to test allthe acoustic-prosodic features we examined in our de-scriptive analysis, since features uch as glottalizationand coarticulatory effects had not been labeled in ourdata base for locations other than DIs.
Also, we usedfairly crude measures to approximate f atures uch aschange in f0 and amplitude, since these .too had beenprecisely labeled in our corpus only for repair locationsand not for fluent speech./2We trained prediction trees, using Classificationand Regression Tree (CART) techniques (Brieman etal., 1984), on our 172-utterance training set.
We firstincluded all our potential identifiers as possible predic-tors.
The resulting (automatically generated) ecisiontree was then used to predict IS locations in our 202-l?These had been marked independently ofour study andincluding all events with some phonetic indicator of disflu-ency which was not involved in a self-repair, such as hesita-tions marked with audible breath or sharp cut-off.llWe also included utterance-final boundaries as datapoints.12We used uniform measures for prediction, however, forboth repair sites and fluent regions.utterance test set.
This procedure identified 186 of the223 repairs correctly, while predicting 12 false posi-tives and omitting 37 true repairs, for a recall of 83.4%and precision of 93.9%.
Fully 177 of the correctlyidentified ISS were identified via presence of word frag-ments as well as duration of pause in the DL Repairsnot containing fragments were identified from lexicalmatching plus pausal duration in the DI.Since the automatic identification of word frag-ments from speech is an unsolved problem, we nextomitted the fragment feature and tried the predictionagain.
The best prediction tree, tested on the same202-utterance t st set, succeeded in identifying 174 ofrepairs correctly-- in the absence of fragment informa-t ion -  with 21 false positives and 49 omissions (78.1%recall, 89.2% precision).
The correctly identified re-pairs were all characterized by constraints on durationof pause in the DI.
Some were further identified viapresence of lexical match to the right of wi within thewindow of three described above, and word positionwithin utterance.
Those repairs in which no lexicalmatch was identified were characterized by lower am-plitude of wi relative to wj and cliticization or deac-centing of wi.
Still other epairs were characterized bymore complex series of lexical and acoustic-prosodicconstraints.These results are, of course, very preliminary.Larger corpora must certainly be examined and moresophisticated versions of the crude measures we haveused should be employed.
However, as a first ap-proximation to the characterization f repairs via bothacoustic-prosodic and lexical cues, we find these re-suits encouraging.
In particular, our ability to iden-tify repair sites successfully without relying upon theidentification of fragments as such seems promising,although our analysis of fragments suggests that theremay indeed be ways of identifying fragment repairs,via their relatively short DI, for example.
Also, thecombination of general acoustic-prosodic constraintswith lexical pattern matching techniques as a strategyfor repair identification appears to gain some supportfrom our predictions.
Further work on prediction mod-eling may suggest ways of combining these lexical andacoustic-prosodic cues for repair processing.DiscussionIn this paper, we have presented a"speech-first" model,the Repair Interval Model, for studying repairs in spon-taneous peech.
This model divides the repair eventinto a reparandum interval, a disfluency interval, anda repair interval.
We have presented empirical resultsfrom acoustic-phonetic and prosodic analysis of a cor-pus of repairs in spontaneous speech, indicating thatreparanda offsets end in word fragments, usually of (in-tended) content words, and that these fragments tendto be quite short and to exhibit particular acoustic-phonetic haracteristics.
We found that the disfluency52interval can be distinguished from intonational phraseboundaries in fluent speech in terms of duration ofpause, and that fragment and nonfragment repairs canalso be distinguished from one another in terms of theduration of the disfluency interval.
For our corpus,repair onsets can be distinguished from reparandumoffsets by small but reliable differences in f0 and am-plitude, and repair intervals differ from fluent speechin their characteristic prosodic phrasing.
We testedour results by developing predictive models for repairsin the ATIS domain, using CART analysis; the best per-forming prediction strategies, trained on a subset of ourdata, identified repairs in the remaining utterances withrecall of 78-83% and precision of 89-93%, dependingupon features examined.AcknowledgmentsWe thank John Bear, Barbara Grosz, Don Hindle, ChinHui Lee, Robin Lickley, Andrej Ljolje, Jan van San-ten, Stuart Shieber, and Liz Shriberg for advice anduseful comments.
CART analysis employed softwarewritten by Daryl Pregibon and Michael Riley.
Speechanalysis was done with Entropic Research Laboratory'sWAVES software.REFERENCESj.
Bachenko and E. Fitzpatrick.
1990.
A computationalgrammar of discourse-neutral prosodic phrasing inEnglish.
Computational Linguistics, 16(3): 155-170.John Bear, John Dowding, and Elizabeth Shriberg.1992.
Integrating multiple knowledge sourcesfor detection and correction of repairs in human-computer dialog.
In Proceedings of the 30th An-nual Meeting, pages 56-63, Newark DE.
Associ-ation for Computational Linguistics.Elizabeth R. Blackmer and Janet L. Mitton.
1991.Theories of monitoring and the timing of repairsin spontaneous speech.
Cognition, 39:173-194.Leo Brieman, Jerome H. Friedman, Richard A. Olshen,and Charles J.
Stone.
1984.
ClassificationandRe-gression Trees.
Wadsworth & Brooks, MonterreyCA.W.
E. Cooper and J. M. Sorenson.
1977.
Funda-mental frequency contours at syntactic bound-aries.
Journal of the Acoustical Society of Amer-ica, 62(3):683-692, September.J.
P. Gee and E Grosjean.
1983.
Performance struc-ture: A psycholinguistic and linguistic apprasial.Cognitive Psychology, 15:411-458.Donald Hindle.
1983.
Deterministic parsing of syn-tactic non-fluencies.
In Proceedings of the 21stAnnual Meeting, pages 123-128, Cambridge MA.Association for Computational Linguistics.William Labov.
1966.
On the grammaticality of ev-eryday speech.
Paper Presented at the LinguisticSociety of America Annual Meeting.C.-H. Lee, L. R. Rabiner, R. Pieraccini, and J. Wilpon.1990.
Acoustic modeling for large vocabularyspeech recognition.
Computer Speech and Lan-guage, 4:127-165, April.William Levelt and Anne Cutler.
1983.
Prosodic mark-ing in speech repair.
Journal of Semantics, 2:205-217.William Levelt.
1983.
Monitoring and self-repair inspeech.
Cognition, 14:41-104.R.
J. Lickley and E. G. Bard.
1992.
Processing disflu-ent speech: Recognising disfluency before lexicalaccess.
In Proceedings of the International Con-ference on Spoken Language Processing, pages935-938, Banff, October.
ICSLP.R.
J. Lickley, R. C. Shillcock, and E. G. Bard.
1991.Processing disfluent speech: How and when aredisfluencies found?
In Proceedings of the SecondEuropean Conference on Speech Communicationand Technology, Vol.
III, pages 1499-1502, Gen-ova, September.
Eurospeech-91.MADCOW.
1992.
Multi-site data collection for aspoken language corpus.
In Proceedings of theSpeech and Natural Language Workshop, pages7-14, Harriman NY, February.
DARPA, MorganKaufmann.Christine Nakatani and Julia Hirschberg.
1993.
Aspeech-first model for repair identification i spo-ken language systems.
In Proceedings of theARPA Workshop on Human Language Technology,Plainsboro, March.
ARPA.Janet B. Pierrehumbert.
1980.
The Phonology andPhonetics of English Intonation.
Ph.D. thesis,Massachusetts In titute of Technology, September.Distributed by the Indiana University LinguisticsClub.E.
O. Selkirk.
1984.
Phonology and syntax: Therelation between sound and structure.
In T. Frey-jeim, editor, Nordic Prosody II: Proceedings ofthe Second Symposium on Prosody in the Nordiclanguage, pages 111-140, Trondheim.
TAPIR.Elizabeth Shriberg, John Bear, and John Dowding.1992.
Automatic detection and correction of re-pairs in human-computer dialog.
In Proceedingsof the Speech and Natural Language Workshop,pages 419--424, Harriman NY.
DARPA, MorganKaufmann.Michelle Q. Wang and Julia Hirschberg.
1992.
Auto-matic classification of intonational phrase bound-aries.
Computer Speech and Language, 6:175-196.53
