THE EFFECT OF ESTABL ISHING COHERENCE INELLIPSIS AND ANAPHORA RESOLUTIONAndrew Keh lerHarvard  Un ivers i tyA iken Computat ion  Laboratory33 Oxford  S t reetCambr idge ,  MA 02138keh ler@das .harvard .eduAbst ractThis paper presents a new model of anaphoric pro-cessing that utilizes the establishment of coherencerelations between clauses in a discourse.
We sur-vey data that comprises a currently stalemated ar-gument over whether VP-ellipsis is an inherentlysyntactic or inherently semantic phenomenon, andshow that the data can be handled within a uni-form discourse processing architecture.
This archi-tecture, which revises the dichotomy between ellip-sis vs. Model Interpretive Anaphora given by Sagand Hankamer (1984), is also able to accommodatedivergent heories and data for pronominal refer-ence resolution.
The resulting architecture servesas a baseline system for modeling the role of cohe-sive devices in natural anguage.1 In t roduct ionThere has been much debate concerning the ap-propriate level of language processing at which totreat VP-ellipsis resolution.
Syntactic accounts(Fiengo and May, 1990; Hgik, 1987; Hellan, 1988;Hestvik, 1993; Lappin, 1993; Lappin and McCord,1990) claim that syntactic material is copied fromthe antecedent clause and reconstructed in theelided clause, whereas emantic accounts (Dalrym-ple, 1991; Dalrymple et al, 1991; Gawron and Pe-ters, 1990; Hardt, 1992; Kehler, 1993; Klein, 1987)claim this material is retrieved from semantic rep-resentations.
This debate is currently deadlocked;indeed a survey of the data seems to indicate thatellipsis must be both a syntactic and semantic phe-nomenon.
In Section 2, we examine five types ofellipsis contexts, and show a pattern that has goneunnoticed in the literature.
In Section 3 we breakthe deadlock by presenting a discourse processingarchitecture from which the correct predictions nat-urally result.
We present further evidence for thisarchitecture from pronominal NP reference resolu-tion data in Section 4, and conclude in Section 5.2 VP Ellipsis DataA simple example of verb phrase (VP) ellipsis isgiven in sentence (1):(1) Ross likes his mother, and Bill does too.The stranded auxiliary in the second clause (thetarget clause) indicates the deletion of a verb phrase,a representation for which is to be located from an-other clause (the source clause), in this case, thefirst clause.
Sentence (1) displays a strict/sloppyambiguity: Bill may like Ross's mother (the strictreading) or his own mother (the sloppy reading).In this section we examine five types of ellipticalcontexts, and show the following heretofore unno-ticed pattern.
1 When the relationship between thesource clause A and the target clause B is what weterm parallel (as exemplified by the sentential struc-ture "A and B too", as in sentence (1)), the dataindicates that a syntactic representation is recon-structed at the target site.
That is, a syntactically-parallel source VP must be available, and recon-struction of this VP in the target clause is subject osyntactic onstraints.
However, in non-parallel con-structions (for example, contrastive conjunctions("A but B"), subordinates ("A because B'), anddomparatives ("A better than B")) neither a syn-tactic source VP nor compliance with syntactic on-straints is necessary, instead only a suitable seman-tic source representation is required.
These datastrongly suggest a discourse processing architecturethat is sensitive to the establishment of coherencerelations between clauses, which is described in Sec-tion 3.2.1 Pass ive /Act ive  A l te rnat ionActive elided target VPs can receive interpretationsfrom passive source VPs:(2) In March, four fireworks manufacturers askedthat the decision be reversed, and on Mondaythe ICC did.
\[ reverse the decision \](from text of Rosenthal (1988), cited in Dal-rymple (1991)) 21Although space precludes us from discussing pastwork in detail, no approach known to us addresses(let alne accounts for) all of the phenomena discussedherein.2This use of and in this example does not signify aparallel relationship between thc source and target, as62(3) This problem was to have been looked into, butobviously nobody did.
\[ look into the problem \](Vincent Della Pietra, in conversation)Less frequent, but still extant, are cases of passivetargets with active sources:(4) In addition to inducing lethality during thefirst instar, it 3 retards embryonic development,but not to the extent that the growth coneswere.
\[ retarded \](from text of (Jarecki, 1992))(5) Actually I have implemented it 4 with a man-ager, but it doesn't have to be.
\[ implementedwith a manager \](Steven Ketchpel, in conversation)These examples are problematic for syntactic anal-yses of ellipsis, because the source clause is not asurface VP constituent.
In contrast, semantic anal-yses cannot account for the unacceptability of sim-ilar examples with parallel constructions:(6) * This problem was looked into by John, andBob did too.
(7) * This agent retards embryonic development,and the growth cones were too.Syntactic parallelism is apparently required in theparallel construction, but not in the non-parallelones.2.2 Cond i t ion  C V io lat ionsFiengo and May (1990) and Lappin (1993) note theunacceptability of examples uch as (8) and (9):(8) * I hit Billi, and then hei did too.
(9) * Mary introduced Johnj to everyone, and hejdid too.Under a syntactic reconstruction analysis, this ispredicted by a Condition C violation within BindingTheory (Chomsky, 1981):(10) * I hit Bill/, and then he/hit  Bill/too.
(11) * Mary introduced Johnj to everyone, and hejintroduced Johnj to everyone too.Because syntactic onstraints do not apply at thesemantic level, semantic accounts predict thesecases to be acceptable.
However, Dalrymple (1991)gives examples where Condition C should apply butapparently does not: 5the use of too would be inappropriate under the desiredreading.
We might term this relationship to be result.3Here, it refers to a previously mentioned chemicalagent.4Here, it refers to a previously mentioned computersystem.5These particular cases also violate the VehicleChange proposal of Fiengo and May (1990), which ade-quately handles other acceptable cases that violate Con-dition C.(12) I expected Billi to win even when he/ didn't.
(13) The lawyer defended Billj against he accusa-tions better than hej could have.As these examples are non-parallel constructions,again it appears that syntactic onstraints apply inparallel constructions but not in non-parallel ones.2.3 Cond i t ion  A V io lat ionsAs predicted by Condition A of Binding Theory, itis generally difficult to obtain a strict reading whenthe source clause contains a reflexive pronoun:(14) ??
Johni defended himselfi, and Bobj did too.\[ defended John/\](15) ??
Fredi voted for himself/, and Garyj did too.\[ voted for Fredi \]Given appropriate semantic context, judgementsimprove but still remain somewhat stilted: 6(16) ?
The alleged murderer/ defended himself/,and his lawyerj did too.
\[ defended the allegedmurdereri \](17) ?
Bill Clinton/ voted for himself/, and hiscampaign managerj did too.
\[ voted for BillClinton/\]The stiltedness of reflexives under a strict readingdisappears, however, in non-parallel constructions(from Dalrymple (1991)):(18) Billi defended himself/against the accusationsbetter than his lawyerj did.
\[ defended Billi \](19) John/ voted for himself/ even though no oneelsej did.
\[ voted for Johni \]In these cases, the strict reading is readily availableand perhaps preferred.
Again, there appears to bea syntactic dependency in the parallel cases that isabsent from the non-parallel ones.2.4 Non-VP  AntecedentsIn the following examples, the source representa-tion is not a syntactic VP but instead comes froma nominalization: 7(20) This letter deserves a response, but before youdo, .... \[ respond \](Gregory Ward, p.c.
)(21) Meanwhile, they sense a drop in visitors to thecity.
Those who do, they say, are not takingcabs.
\[ visit the city \](Chicago Tribune, courtesy Gregory Ward)SThere appears to be a dialect that readily allowsstrict readings with reflexives.
However, even for thosespeakers, the non-parallel constructions given below aremore acceptable under the strict interpretation than theparallel cases.~Some speakers find these cases slightly awkward orstilted.
Again, however, most find these better than theparallel construction cases given below.63Semantic analyses can account for these cases ifnominalizations are assumed to evoke event repre-sentations into the discourse model.
However, inparallel constructions, discourse-model events fromnominalizations are apparently not available:(22) * ,This letter provoked a response from Bush,and Clinton did too.
\[ responded \](23) * There is a rise in American visitors to thecity, and Canadians do too.
\[ visit the city \]A similar pattern is seen in cases where the an-tecedent of the ellipsis is evoked by an adjectivalphrase:(24) First person pronouns aren't very shiftable, al-though the plural ones can be.
\[ shifted \](Barbara Partee, in conversation)The acceptability of example (24) is to be comparedwith the relative unacceptability of an otherwisesimilar parallel construction case:(25) * First person pronouns aren't very shiftable,and the plural ones also don't.
\[ shift \]Again, non-syntactic source representations appearto only be available in the non-parallel constructioncases.2.5 Sub jacency  V io la t ionsHa'ik (1987) gives examples of apparent subjacencyviolations in antecedent contained eletion (ACD):(26) John read everything which Bill believes hedid.
(27) * John read everything which Bill believes theclaim that he did.
(28) * John read everything which Bill wonderswhy he did.This data is problematic for a purely semantic the-ory of ellipsis, as there should be no syntactic de-pendency at the ellipsis site.
However, sentence(29), which has a subordinate conjunction, doesnot display the expected subjacency violation (fromRooth (1981)): s(29) Which problem did you think John wouldsolve because of the fact that Susan did?Without ellipsis, the gap remains and a subjacencyviolation results:(30) * Which problem did you think John wouldsolve because of the fact that Susan solved?In our account, the relative pronoun which does notspecify an interclausal coherence link, and thereforesentences (26-28) are parallel constructions.
Conse-quently, again the source representation for the par-allel construction is apparently syntactic, whereasthat for the non-parallel construction (e.g., example(29)) is semantic.8I thank Stuart Shieber for bringing this example tomy attention.3 An  Arch i tec ture  that  Exp lo i t sCoherenceThe data given in Section 2 suggests that VP-ellipsis resolution copies a syntactic representationin parallel constructions and a semantic represen-tation in non-parallel ones.
In this section, wepresent a discourse processing architecture fromwhich these predictions naturally result.
We firstdescribe Sag and Hankamer's (1984) (henceforthS&H) earlier work, the representations from whichour analysis will utilize.3.1 Sag and Hankamer~s ArchitectureS&H give a performance-based view of anaphoricprocessing that utilizes two forms of representa-tion, a propositional representation and a discoursemodel.
Propositional representations, which theyconjecture are held by short-term registers in mem-ory (henceforth propositional registers), maintainthe surface syntactic constituent structure of anutterance as well as binding relations; however,discourse anaphors are resolved.
9 These repre-sentations are built in tandem with a discoursemodel.
S&H claim that the ellipsis resolution pro-cess obtains referents from propositional represen-tations, whereas what they term Model Interpre-tive Anaphora (MIA) (e.g., 'do it' anaphora) ob-tains referents from the discourse model.
They givethe following example to illustrate (judgements aretheirs):(31) The children asked to be squirted with thehose, soa.
they were.
\[ ellipsis \]b.
* we did.
\[ ellipsis \]c. we did it.
\[ MIA \]In their theory, example (31a) is acceptable becausethe source representation is a surface VP and there-fore is retrievable from its propositional representa-t ion.
Example (31b) is unacceptable because thesource squirt the children with the hose is not a sur-face VP in the propositional representation3 ?
Sen-tence (31c) is acceptable because 'do it' anaphorais an MIA process, and therefore obtains referentsfrom the discourse model, in which a representationfor squirt the children with the hose is assumed toexist.
One problem with this account is that it doesnot explain the dichotomy of judgements for thedata given in Section 2.
For each of these phenom-ena, the S~zH approach predicts that all cases are9In fact, they suggest hat propositional represen-tations (as opposed to classical surface structures) arewhat the parser constructs, a view consistent with ouraccount.1?Ellipsis, in their formulation, is subject to anidentity-o\]-logical-\]orm constraint on propositional rep-resentations.
See Dalrymple et al (1991) and Hardt(1992) for arguments that this condition is flawed.64either acceptable or unacceptable without regardto the type of construction.
The data instead sug-gests that VP-ellipsis within the parallel construc-tion behaves like S&H's definition of ellipsis, andin non-parallel constructions it behaves like theirMIA.
We believe that their dichotomy of phenom-ena is somewhat illusory, and a more compellingand elegant treatment is possible by appealing todiscourse structure and coherence.3.2 A Rev ised  Arch i tec tureWe follow S&H and earlier arguments by Johnson-Laird (1983) in specifying a discourse processingarchitecture that includes both propositional rep-resentations and a discourse model.
We proposethat a main function of the propositional repre-sentations is to serve as a "bridge" in establishingclause-to-clause coherence.
That  is, as clauses areparsed, propositional representations are generatedand held in the short-term registers.
When it isestablished that a non-parallel coherence relation-ship is present between a clause (or set of clauses)and a subsequent clause, the propositional repre-sentation(s) for the first is integrated into the dis-course model so that coherence can be computed,thereby freeing the short-term propositional reg-ister for subsequent representations.
Non-parallelconstructions specify a non-parallel coherence rela-tionship overtly (e.g., 'contrast' (because), 'compar-ison' (better than), 'result' (the use of and in exam-ple 2)) 11, thereby identifying the first clause as aunit for coherence stablishment and invoking inte-gration of its propositional representation i to thediscourse model.Parallel constructions, on the other hand, do notinvoke this integration.
Hobbs (1979), in discussingthe parallel coherence relation he defines, suggestsone basis for this distinction:One frequent function of the Parallel re-lation is to suggest or support the gener-alization which the two segments are spe-cific instances of.
The relation often linkssegments which together function as anExemplification or Elaboration of a moregeneral statement.In our terms, clauses conjoined by a parallel relationwill form a group and cohere as a unit with priorand subsequent statements.
Therefore, this rela-tion in itself does not cause the representation forthe first clause to be integrated into the discoursemodel.
Instead, the integration of both representa-tions into the discourse model as a unit is invokedby subsequent coherence stablishment.11This use of and raises the question of how the lis-tener knows which meaning of and is present duringprocessing.
We assume that the listener can considermultiple possibilities in parallel, although it may also bethat in these cases the interclausal relationship has beenestablished by the time the ellipsi~ site is processed.The preceding analysis makes the predictionsnecessary to account for the ellipsis data given inSection 2.
Under our account, the representation ofan utterance either exists in a propositional regis-ter or in the discourse model; these are not cre-ated in tandem as S&H suggest.
An elided VPthen receives an interpretation from whichever ep-resentation is available.
The parallel constructioncases in Section 2 are unacceptable because thesource clause has not been integrated into the dis-course model when the ellipsis site is processed.The source must therefore be retrieved from thepropositional representation, where surface syntac-tic structure and binding relations are maintained.Reconstructing this representation requires syntac-tic parallelism (ruling out passive/active and nomi-nalization cases) and can result in violation of syn-tactic constraints (such as Condition C violations,Condition A violations, or subjacency violations).The non-parallel construction cases in Section 2 areacceptable because the antecedent for the ellipsishas been integrated into the discourse model whenthe ellipsis site is processed.
Because the vestigesof syntactic information are no longer present inthe representation, syntactic constraint violationsdo not occur; furthermore source representationsfrom nominalizations and clauses of differing voicenow exist in the discourse model, x23.3 ExamplesIn this section, we work through two examples toillustrate the proposals that have been made thusfar.
For resolution at the syntactic level, we as-sume an S&H-like propositional representation anda straightforward mechanism whereby a VP repre-sentation is copied from the source clause represen-tat.ion into the target clause representation.
For res-olution in the discourse model, we will use the eventrepresentation and resolution algorithm defined in(Kehler, 1993).
The focus of this section, however,is to offer a general illustration of the architecturerather than to make specific claims concerning the12Differences remain between the distribution ofS&tt's ellipsis and MIA phenomena that need to beaccounted for in a comprehensive treatment of eventanaphora, as examples (31a-c) show (although judge-ments as to the unacceptability of sentence (31b) vary).Interestingly, contra S&H, MIA phenomena also appearto be sensitive to syntactic onstraints in certain con-texts, as the following example from Dalrymple (1991)shows:* I hit Suei, and then she1 did it.One hypothesis is that VP-ellipsis is actually eventanaphora with an empty pronoun; it may then be thatdistributional differences between "do ?
", "do it ' ,  and"do that" are due only to the anaphoric properties of theevent pronoun involved, and not due to a fundamentaldifference between ellipsis and MIA phenomena.
Thishypothesis i the subject of ongoing work.65nature of the representations involved.Examples (32) and (33) exhibit the contrast be-tween parallel and non-parallel constructions withactive target clauses that have passive sourceclauses, as discussed in Section 2.1:(32) * John was shot by Bob, and Bill did too.
(33) John was shot by Bob because Bill wouldn't.The propositional representation for the sourceclause in these sentences is shown in representation(34), where P denotes the passive voice:(34) \[ P \[ was.shot'(by(Bob')) \] (John') \]Because the two clauses in sentence (32) stand in aparallel relationship, the source representation hasnot been integrated into the discourse model at thetime the ellipsis site is processed; therefore the el-lipsis is resolved at the propositional level of repre-sentation.
A representation is constructed with theinformation present in the target clause:(35) \[ A \[... \] (Bill') \]Here A denotes the active voice, a feature whichis indicated in the target clause through the use ofdid.
When the elided VP is retrieved, a mismatchoccurs: the passive VP cannot be brought into arepresentation marked as having active voice.
Thecopying can therefore not be completed, resultingin the unacceptability of the sentence.Sentence (33) also has representation (34) for itssource clause.
However, because the two clausesstand in a non-parallel relationship, representation(34) has already been integrated into the discoursemodel when the ellipsis site is processed, and thusresolution occurs in the discourse model.
The rep-resentation for the source clause is:(36) el: \[predicate: shottime: pastpolarity: positivemodality: necessityagent: Bobtheme: John \]Because this representation is based upon thematic(and not syntactic) roles, the representations for ac-tive and passive forms of a sentence are identical.For the target clause, a parallel event representa-tion is created with empty roles, and the role fillerspresent in the target clause are filled in:(37) e~: \[ predicate:time: pastpolarity: negativemodality: volitional_possibilityagent: Billtheme:\]Representations for the the remaining role fillers areretrieved from the source clause representation:(38) e2: \[predicate: shottime: pastpolarity: negativemodality: volitional_possibilityagent: Billtheme: John \]This resolution successfully ields the correct rep-resentation for the target clause in sentence (33).Examples (39) and (40) illustrate the contrast be-tween parallel and non-parallel constructions withrespect to potential Condition C violations, as de-scribed in Section 2.2:(39) * The lawyer defended Bil4 and hei did too.
(40) The lawyer defended Bill/ better than heicould have.In each sentence, the propositional representationfor the source clause takes the form given in (41):(41) \[\[ defend'(nill') \] (lawyerl') \]Because the two clauses in sentence (39) stand in aparallel relationship, the source representation hasnot been integrated into the discourse model at thetime the ellipsis site is processed.
The ellipsis isthen resolved at the propositional level of represen-tation.
After filling in the information present inthe target clause and copying the representation ofthe source VP, representation (42) results: 13(42) \[\[ defend'(Bill/) \] (he/') \]A manifestation of Condition C applying at thislevel rules out this representation asill-formed, be-cause the pronoun he c-commands the coreferentialNP form Bill.Sentence (40) also has representation (41) forits source clause.
Because the two clauses standin a non-parallel relation, representation (41) hasalready been integrated into the discourse modelwhen the ellipsis site is processed.
Resolution thenoccurs in the discourse model.
The representationfor the source clause is:(43) e3: \[predicate: defendtime: pastmodality: necessityagent: lawyer 1theme: Bill \] .After creating a parallel event representation, fill-ing in role fillers present in the target clause, andretrieving remaining role fillers from the source rep-resentation, representation (44) results:(44) e4: \[predicate: defendtime: pastmodality: possibilityagent: Billtheme: Bill \]13Recall that pronouns have been resolved at thislevel of representation; we indicate this by coindexing.66Because no syntactic onstraints apply at this levelof representation, representation (44) is well-formedand yields the correct interpretation for the targetclause.In summary, our architecture accounts for datasupporting both the syntactic and semantic ac-counts of ellipsis resolution in an elegant and in-tuitive way.
Section 4 examines pronominal NPresolution in this model.4 Pronoun Reso lu t ionThere are also dichotomous views in the literatureconcerning the process by which pronoun resolu-tion is performed.
Theories incorporating a notionof local focus generally utilize syntactic informationin their specifications.
For example, the Centeringframework of Grosz et al (1986) utilizes grammat-ical role information in specifying the accessibilityof potential referents on an ordered forward-lookingcenter list.
Kameyama's work (Kameyama, 1988)contains rules for property sharing utilizing gram-matical roles.
Passonneau (1991), in looking at thedistribution of 'it' and 'that' for NP reference innaturally-occurring texts, concludes that both syn-tactic form of the antecedent and its grammaticalrole are needed to adequately account for the data.Furthermore, she suggests that the function of thepropositional register discussed by S&H is appro-priate for accommodating her rules.Alternatively, some researchers (Hobbs, 1979;Wilensky, 1978) have suggested that coreference isdetermined as a by-product of coherence determi-nation between sentences.
In Hobbs' account, forexample, pronouns are modeled as free variablesand are assigned to objects during the process ofestablishing coherence relations.However, Hobbs himself acknowledges the powerof grammatical role-based heuristics, 14 noting thatupon hearing example (45),(45) John can open Bill's safe.
He ...one is likely to assume that John is the referent ofHe.
The existence of a garden-path effect in ex-ample (46), where He refers to Bill instead of John,suggests that pronominal reference resolution is notguided by coherence considerations alone:(46) John can open Bill's safe.
He's going to haveto get the combination changed soon.As focus-based theories would predict, the readerassigns John as the referent of He, and double-takes when semantic information later suggestsotherwise.
15 Our architecture provides an expla-nation for this phenomenon.
Since a coherence14Hobbs (1976) found that a heuristic favoring sub-jects over objects was 90% accurate for written texts.15This effect causes Hobbs to admit that "thisstrongly suggests that some psychological reality un-derlies the heuristic \[ favoring subjects over objects \].
"relation has not been established at the time thepronoun is processed, the propositional representa-tion for the first clause (which preserves informationthat focus-based theories utilize, such as surface-string ordering and depth-of-embedding of poten-tial referents) is the representation available to thereference resolution algorithm.
16 However, when anon-parallel coherence link is overt, our architecturewould predict that a semantically-based resolutionprocess would be used because the propositionalrepresentation containing potential referents has al-ready been integrated into the discourse model atthe time the pronoun is processed.
This predic-tion is borne-out empirically; consider the follow-ing two sentence prefixes (complete sentences takenfrom (Ehrlich, 1980)):(47) Steve blamed Frank and he ... \[ spilt the cof-fee \].
(48) Steve blamed Frank because he ... \[ spilt thecoffee \].Focus-based theories predict the strong bias towardthe referent of he in example (47) being the subject(i.e., Steve), even though he is consistent with bothpotential referents.
Because this sentence is a par-allel construction (i.e., the meaning of "and" is notresult), our architecture also makes this predictionin accordance with those theories.
The heuristicpreferring subjects does not apply in example (48),where Frank is perhaps the preferred referent of he,seemingly as a result of reasoning using semanticfeatures of the verb blame.
Our architecture cor-rectly predicts that the pronoun in sentence (48)does not cause processing problems while the onein example (46) does, because only in sentence (48)has the clause containing the referent of he been in-tegrated into the discourse model at the time thepronoun is processed.Ehrlich (1980) gives experimental evidence sup-porting this view.
Ehrlich's goal was to test the bi-asing effect of the so-called "implicit causality" fea-ture (Garvey and Caramazza, 1974) of verbs suchas blame in pronoun reference assignment in two-clause sentences with conjunctions other than be-cause (which was the only conjunction used in pre-vious work (Garvey el al., 1976)).
In her experi-ments, subjects were tested for their ability to iden-tify correct referents of pronouns in three versionsof six two-clause sentences (such as those in sen-tences (47) and (48)), where each of the sentencescontained one of the conjunctions and, but, and be-cause.
It was found that subjects were significantlymore accurate in determining correct referents ofaSAfter garden-pathing, "off-line" reasoning appar-ently allows the reader of example (46) to identify thecorrect referent of the pronoun.
This reasoning may al-low propositional representations to be integrated intothe discourse model so that Hobbs-like coherence deter-mination can be performed.67pronouns when the conjunction used was because orbut, and therefore that the effect of implicit causal-ity was not constant with respect o the conjunctionused.
While a detailed analysis of her work is be-yond the scope of this paper, two generalizationsthat she draws as a result of her experiments are:(1) that subjects were more able to utilize 'gen-eral knowledge' in determining the referent whenthe conjunction used was because or but than whenit was and; and (2) that hearers analyze languagea clause at a time.
The first of these results sup-ports our view that semantic information requiredfor reasoning is primarily available in the discoursemodel (since the representation for the first clause isintegrated into the discourse model when the con-junction used is but or because); the second pointsupports our claim that the propositional registershold clause-level representations.
17In summary, our architecture also accommo-dates evidence supporting competing theories ofhow pronominal NP resolution is performed.5 Conc lus ionsThis paper presents a model for anaphoric process-ing that incorporates the role of establishing coher-ence relationships between clauses in a discourse.By postulating the existence of propositional rep-resentations in addition to a discourse model, weaccount for ellipsis data that has gridlocked workon the topic.
Furthermore, arguments for dichoto-mous approaches to pronoun resolution are resolv-able within this framework.It should be noted that coherence stablishmentis not likely to be the only discourse factor involvedin integrating propositional representations into thediscourse model.
Therefore, the analysis describedherein only indicates tendencies, as opposed to pre-dicting cut-and-dry judgements on the basis of typeof construction alone.
For instance, example (49)has been judged by some speakers to be acceptableunder a strict reading: is(49) I voted for myself, and I hope you did too!Our account predicts that this case would be atleast somewhat stilted due to a Condition A viola-tion.
One factor distinguishing this example from17 Ehrhch's results with the conjunction and are mixedwith respect o our theory, as in some cases her partic-ipants preferred a non-subject position referent over asubject position one.
In particular, she notes that thishappens when the main verb of the second clause isthe stative verb be, as in Sue criticized Penny and shewas gloomy.
These sentences contain the resultmeaningof and as opposed to the parallel one.
Unfortunately,Ehrlich's original data was not available at the time ofthis writing so an analysis distinguishing between usesof and could not be performed.lsI thank an anonymous reviewer for this example.others we have discussed is the use of first and sec-ond person pronouns, and a second is the fact thatthe pronominal referent necessary to yield the strictreading is also present in the target clause.
Futurework is needed to further analyze the effects of thesedifferences.The theory presented here evokes many otherquestions for future study.
One such question ishow the postulated representations should be fur-ther formalized, and how reasoning with these for-malizations is to be performed.
A second questionis how this conception of discourse processing maybe integrated with theories of discourse structure(Grosz and Sidner, 1986; Scha and Polanyi, 1988;Webber, 1991).
While we have looked primarilyat two-clause structures, the ramifications that theclaims have on multi-clause discourse structure re-quire further investigation.
Such studies will formthe basis for further characterization f the role ofcoherence stablishment in anaphoric processing.AcknowledgmentsThis work was supported in part by National Sci-ence Foundation Grant IRI-9009018, National Sci-ence Foundation Grant IRI-9157996, and a match-ing grant for the latter from the Xerox Corporation.I would like to thank Mary Dalrymple, BarbaraGrosz, Shalom Lappin, Karen Lochbaum, ChristineNakatani, Stuart Shieber, and two anonymous re-viewers for valuable discussions and comments onearlier drafts.References(Chomsky, 1981) Noam Chomsky.
Lectures in Gov-ernment and Binding.
Foris, Dordrecht, 1981.
(Dalrymple et al, 1991) Mary Dalrymple, StuartM.
Shieber, and Fernando Pereira.
Ellipsis andhigher-order unification.
Linguistics and Philo-sophy, 14:399-452, 1991.
(Dalrymple, 1991) Mary Dalrymp!e.
Against re-construction in ellipsis.
Technical Report SSL-91-114, Xerox, 1991.
(Ehrlich, 1980) Kate Ehrlich.
Comprehension ofpronouns.
Quarterly Journal of ExperimentalPsychology," 32:247-255, 1980.
(Fiengo and May, 1990) Robert Fiengo and RobertMay.
Anaphora and ellipsis, ms., City Univer-sity of New York and University of California atIrvine, 1990.
(Garvey and Caramazza, 1974) C. Garvey andA.
Caramazza.
Implicit causality in verbs.
Lin-guistic Inquiry, 5:549-564, 1974.
(Garvey et al, 1976) C. Garvey, A. Caramazza,and J. Yates.
Factors underlying assignmentof pronoun antecedents.
Cognition, 3:227-243,1976.68(Gawron and Peters, 1990) Mark Gawron andStanley Peters.
Anaphora and Quantification inSituation Semantics.
CSLI/University of ChicagoPress, Stanford University, 1990.
CSLI LectureNotes, Number 19.
(Grosz and Sidner, 1986) Barbara Grosz and Can-dace Sidner.
Attention, intentions, and the strc-ture of discourse.
Computational Linguistics,12(3):175-204, 1986.
(Grosz et al, 1986) Barbara J. Grosz, Aravind K.Joshi, and Scott Weinstein.
Towards a computa-tional theory of discourse interpretation.
Unpub-lished manuscript, 1986.
(Ha'/k, 1987) Isabelle Ha'ik.
Bound variables thatneed to be.
Linguistics and Philosophy, 11:503-530, 1987.
(Hardt, 1992) Daniel Hardt.
VP ellipsis and con-textual interpretation.
In Proceedings of the In-ternational Conference on Computational Lin-guistics (COLING-92), Nantes, July 1992.
(Hellan, 1988) Lars Hellan.
Anaphora in Norwe-gian and the Theory of Grammar.
Studies inGenerative Grammar 32.
Forts, Dordrecht, 1988.
(Hestvik, 1993) Arild Hestvik.
Strict reflexives andthe subordination effect.
In S. Berman andA.
Hestvik, editors, Proceedings of the StuttgartWorkshop on Ellipsis: Arbeitspapiere des Son-derforschungsbereich 340, Berichl Nr.
29-1992,SFB 340.
University of Stuttgart, University ofTuebingen, and IBM Germany, 1993.
(Hobbs, 1976) Jerry Hobbs.
Pronoun resolution.Technical Report 76-1, Department ofComputerScience, City University of New York, 1976.
(Hobbs, 1979) Jerry Hobbs.
Coherence and coref-erence.
Cognitive Science, 3:67-90, 1979.
(Johnson-Laird, 1983) P. N. Johnson-Laird.
Men-tal Models: Towards a Cognitive Science of Lan-guage, Inference, and Consciousness.
CambridgeUniversity Press, 1983.
(Kameyama, 1988) Megumi Kameyama.
Japanesezero pronominal binding: Where syntax and dis-course meet.
In William J. Poser, editor, Pa-pers from the Second International Workshop onJapanese Syntax, pages 47-74.
CLSI, 1988.
(Kehler, 1993) Andrew Kehler.
A discourse copy-ing algorithm for ellipsis and anaphora resolu-tion.
In Proceedings of the Sixth Conference of theEuropean Chapter of the Association for Com-putational Linguistics (EACL-93), Utrecht, theNetherlands, April 1993.
(Klein, 1987) Ewan Klein.
VP-Ellipsis in DR the-ory.
In Groenindijk and Stokhof, editors, Studiesin Discourse Representation Theory and the The-ory of Generalized Quantifiers.
Forts, 1987.
(Lappin and McCord, 1990) Shalom Lappin andMichael McCord.
Anaphora resolution in slotgrammar.
Computational Linguistics, 16:197-212, 1990.
(Lappin, 1993) Shalom Lappin.
The syntactic ba-sis of ellipsis resolution.
In S. Berman andA.
Hestvik, editors, Proceedings of the StuttgartWorkshop on Ellipsis: Arbeitspapiere des Son-derforschungsbereich 340, Bericht Nr.
29-i992,SFB 340.
University of Stuttgart, University ofTuebingen, and IBM Germany, 1993.
(Passonneau, 1991) Rebecca Passonneau.
Persis-tence of linguistic form in discourse processing.In Proceedings of the Fall Symposium on Dis-course Structure in Natural Language Under-standing and Generation, Monterey, CA, Novem-ber 1991.
(Rooth, 1981) Mats Rooth.
A comparison of threetheories of verb phrase llipsis.
University of Mas-sachusetts Occasional Papers in Linguistics, Vol-ume 7, 1981.
(Sag and Hankamer, 1984)Ivan Sag and JorgeHankamer.
Toward a theory of anaphoric pro-cessing.
Linguistics and Philosophy, 7:325-345,1984.
(Scha and Polanyi, 1988) Remko Scha and LiviaPolanyi.
An augmented context free grammarfor discourse.
In Proceedings of the Interna-tional Conference on Computational Linguistics(COLING-88), pages 573-577, Budapest, August1988.
(Webber, 1991)Bonnie Lynn Webber.
Struc-ture and ostension in the interpretation of dis-course deixis.
Language and Cognitive Processes,6(2):107-135, 1991.
(Wilensky, 1978) Robert Wilensky.
UnderstandingGoal-Based Stories.
PhD thesis, Yale, 1978.
Re-search Report #140.Sources of Examples(Jarecki, 1992) Jill Jarecki.
The role ofsynaptic ac-tivity during embryonic neuromuscular junctiondevelopment in drosophila melangestr.
Unpub-lished Yale University Prospectus, August 1992.
(Rosenthal, 1988) Harry F. Rosenthal.
Agency or-ders UPS to resume fireworks deliveries-afterJuly 4th.
Associated Press Newswire, June 1988.69
