STRUCTURAL MATCHING OF  PARALLEL  TEXTSYu j i  Matsu lnotoGraduate  School of In fo rmat ion  ScienceAdvanced Ins t i tu te  of Science and Technology,  NaraTakayanaa-cho,  Ikoma-sh i ,  Na.ra 630-01 Japanmatsu@is.a ist-na ra.ac.jpH i royuk i  I sh imoto  Takeh i to  UtsuroDepar tment  of E lectr ica l  Eng ineer ingKyoto  Un ivers i tySakyo-ku,  Kyoto  606 Japan{ishimoto, utsuro} @pine.kuee.kyoto-u.ac.
jpAbst rac tThis paper describes a method for finding struc-rural matching between parallel sentences of twolanguages, (such as Japanese and English).
Par-allel sentences are analyzed based on unificationgrammars, and structural matching is performedby making use of a similarity measure of word pairsin the two languages.
Syntactic ambiguities are re-solved simultaneously in the matching process.
Theresults serve as a. useful source for extracting lin-guistic a.nd lexical knowledge.INTRODUCTIONBilingual (or parallel) texts are useful resources foracquisition of linguistic knowledge as well as for ap-plications such as machine translation.
Intensiveresearch as been done for aligning bilingual textsat the sentence level using statistical teclmiques bymeasuring sentence lengths in words or in charac-ters (Brown 91), (Gale 91a).
Those works are quitesuccessful in that far more than 90% of sentencesin bilingual corpora, are a.ligned correctly.Although such parallel texts are shown to be use-ful in real applications such as machine translation(Brown 90) and word sense disambiguatioll (Daga.n91), structured bilingual sentences are undoubtedlymore informative and important for filture naturallanguage researches.
Structured bilingual or multi-lingual corpora, serve a.s richer sources for extract-ing linguistic knowledge (Kaji 92), (Klavans 90),(Sadler 91), (Utsuro 92).Phrase level or word level alignment has alsobeen done by several researchers.
The TextualKnowledge Bank Project (Sadler 91) is buildinglnonolingual and multilingual text bases tructuredby linking the elements with grammatical (depen-dency), referential, and bilingual relations.
(Karl92) reports a method to obtain phrase level corre-spondence of parallel texts by coupling phrases oftwo languages obtained in CKY parsing processes.This paper presents another method to obtainstructural matching of bilingual texts.
Sentences inboth languages are parsed to produce (disjunctive)feature structures, from which dependency struc-tures are extracted.
Ambiguities are represented asdisjunction.
Then, the two structures are matchedto establish a one-to-one correspondence b tweentheir substructures.
The result of the match is ob-tained as a set of pairs of minimal correspondingsubstructures of the dependency structures.
Exam-ples of the results are shown in Figures 1, 2 and 3.A dependency structure is represented as a tree, inwhich ambiguity is specified by a disjunctive node(OR.
node).
Circles in the figure show substruc-tures and bidirectional arrows show correspondingsubstructures.Our technique and the results are different fromthose of other lnethods mentioned above.
(Kaji 92)identifies corresponding phrases and ahns at pro-ducing tra.nslation templates by abstracting thosecorresponding phrases.
In the Bilingua.l KnowledgeBank (Sadler 91), the correspondence is shown by23links between words in two sentences, equating twowhole subtrees headed by the words.
We preferthe Ininimal substructure correspondence and therelationship between substructures.
Such a mini-mal substructure stands for the minimal meaning-ful component in the sentence, which we believe isvery useful for our target application of extractinglexical knowledge fi'om bilingual corpora.SPECIF ICAT ION OFSTRUCTURAL MATCHINGPROBLEMAlthough the structural matching method shownin this paper is language independent, we deal withparallel texts of Japanese a.nd English.
We assumethat a.lignment at the sentence level is already pre-processed manually or by other methods such asthose in (Brown 91), (Gale 91a).
Throughout hispaper, we assume to match simple sentences.
1DEF IN IT IONS OF  DATA STRUCTURESA pair of Ja.panese and English sentences are parsedindependently into (disjuuctive)feature structures.For our present purpose, a part of a feature struc-ture is taken out as a dependency structure consist-ing of the content words 2 that appear in the originalsentence.
Ambiguity is represented by disjunctivefeature structures (Kasper 87).
Since any relationother than modifier-modifyee dependencies i notconsidered here, path equivalence is not taken intoconsideration.
Both of va.lue disjunction and gen-eral disjunction are allowed.We are currently using LFG-like grammars forboth Japanese and English, where the value of the'pred' label in an f-structure is the content wordthat is the head of the corresponding c-structure.We start with the definitions of simplified dis-junctive feature structures, and then disjunctivedependency structures, that are extracted from thedisjunctive feature structures obtained by the pars-ing process.Def in i t ion  1 Simple feature structures (FS) (L isthe sel of feature labels, and A is the set of atomicvalues) are defined recursively:1 Matching of compound sentences are done by cuttingthem up into simple sentence fragments.2In the present system, llOUllS, l)FOtK~utls, verbs, adjec-tives, mad adverbs are regarded as content, words.NILa where a E A1 :4  where l E L, 4EFS?
A ~b where 4,?
E FSC V g, where ?
,?
E FSTo define (Disjunctive) Depen.dency Structuresas a special case of an FS, we first require the fol-lowing definitions.Def in i t ion  2 Top label set of an FS ?, written astl(?
), is defined:1.
If O = l :  if1, then t l(4) = {l},2.
I f4  = 41A4".
o r4  = 41V42,  then tl(4) =t l (41)  U ?~l(42).Def in i t ion  3 A relation 'sibling' between featurelabels in 4 is defined:1.
I f4  -= l : 41, then l and labels in 41 are notsibling, and sibling relation holding in 41 alsoholds in 4.2.
/Jr4 -- 41A 42, then labels in tl(41) and labelsin tl(4_,) are sibling.3.
I f  ?
-- 41 V 42, then labels in 41 and labels in42 are not sibling.Note that the sibling relation is not an equiva-lence relation.
We refer to a set of feature labelsin ?
that are mutually sibling as a sibling label setof 4.
Now, we are ready to define a dependencystructure (DS).Def in i t ion  4 A dependency structure ~b is an FSlhaI satisfies the following condition:Condition: Every sibling label set of ?
includes ex-actly one 'pred' label.The idea behind those are that the value of a'pred' label is a content word appearing in the orig-inal sentence, and that a sibling label set definesthe dependency relation between content words.Among the labels in a sibling label set, the valuesof the labels other than 'pred' are dependent on(i.e., modify) the value of the 'pred' label.
A DScan be drawn as a tree structure where the nodesare either a content word or disjunction operatorand the edges represent the dependency relation.Def in i t ion  5 A substructure of an FS 4 is defined(sub(4) stands for the sel of all substructures of4,):1.
N IL  and 4 itself are substruclures of 4.2.
I f  4 = a (a E A), then a is a s'ubstructare of?.24English: She has long hair.Japanese: ~ -  0 -~-  ~: J~she - GEN hair - TOP longshelonghair= ~Figure 1: Example  of s t ructura l  matching,  No.1English: This child is starving for parental love.Japanese: U_.
69 --~- ~ ~-  09 ~-  W-_this child - TOP parent-  GEN love - DATpa,ental ~ ~?be-starvingth is  =chi ld  =love =~.69Figure 2: Example of st ructura l  matching,  No.2English: Japan benefits from free trade.Japa,,ese: ~*  ~ ~ 0~ ,~,,,N- *Japan - TOP free-trade - GEN benefit - ACCo?????o.?..O~?
oo'" ......................................
..??.....
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.,e.." .
I(, japan.)
l a  an:~benefit ) c '~ t~f  A ~,.
~ / ~;2 :~i ~  ......." f ree  : .
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
.%.
?..,?receivej apan  = Elbenef i t  = ,~ ,~trade = I~ 1 ~Figure 3: Example of structural  matching,  No.3253.
I f  ?
---- l : ?1, then sub(t1) are substructures of?.It" \]f ?
---- (~1 A (/)2, then for a~y (q C sub(e l )  andfor any ?2 e sub(C2), ?1A?~ is a subslruclureo f t .5.
If  ?
= ?1 V ?2, then for for any '/r/)l ~ sub(~) 1)and for any ?2 E sub(C2), ?1 v?2  is a sub-slr~ucture of ?.The DS derived fi'om an FS is the maximuln sub-structure of the FS that satisfies the condition inDefinition 4.
The DS is uniquely determined fi'olnan FS.Def in i t ion  6 A disjunction-free maximal sub-structure of an FS ?
is called a complete FS of?.An FS does not usually have a unique completeFS.
This concept is important since the selection ofa complete FS corresponds to alnbiguity resolution.Naturally, a lnaximal disjunction-free substructureof a DS ?
is again a DS and is called a completeDS of ?.Def in i t ion  7 A semi-complete DS of a DS ?
is asubstruclure of a complete DS o f?
thai satisfiesthe condition in Definilion ~.Note that a substructure of a DS is not neces-sarily a DS.
This is why the definition requires thecondition in Definition 4.A complete DS ~/., can be decomposed into a setof non-overlapping selni-complete DSs.
Such a de-composition defines the units of structural natch-ing and plays the key role in our problem.Def in i t ion 8 A set of semi-complete DS of a DS?, D = {?1, " '?n} ,  is called a decomposition of?, iff every ?i in the set contains at least one oc-currence of 'pred' feature label, and every contentword at the 'pred' feature label appeariT~g in '?
iscontained in exactly one ~i.Def in i t ion  9 Th.e reduced DS of a DS (, with re-spect to a decomposition D = {?1,"-4',~} is con-stracted as follows:I.
?i is transformed to a DS, "pred : St', whereSi is the set of all coT~le~l words appeari~J 9 i7~?i.
Th.is DS is referred to as red(it).2.
If there is a direcl dependency relatiol~ betweentwo conient words wl and w~ that are in ?iand t j  (i 7~ j) ,  lh.en lhe dependency relationis allotted between ?i and l/,j.Although this definition should be described pre-cisely, we leave it with this more intuitive descrip-tion.
Examples of dependency structures and re-duced dependency structures are found in Figures1, 2 and 3, where the decompositions are indicatedby circles.It is not difficult to show that the reduced DSsatisfies the condition of Definition 4.STRUCTURAL MATCHING OF  B IL IN -GUAL  DEPENDENCY STRUCTURESStructural matching problem of bilingual sentencesis now defined formally.Parsing parallel English and Japanese sentencesresults in feature structures, from which depen-dency structures are derived by removing unrelatedfeatures.Assmne that ~.
'E and 'OJ are dependency struc-tures of English and Japanese sentences.
The struc-tural matching is to find the most plausible one- to -one mapping between a decomposition of a com-plete DS of CE and a decomposition of a completeDS of C j ,  provided that the reduced DS of CE andthe reduced DS of Cj w.r.t, the decompositionsare isomorphic over the dependency relation.
Theisomorphism imposes a. natural one-to-one corre-spondence on the dependency relations between thereduced DSs.Generally, the mapping need not always be one-to-one, i.e., all elements in a decomposition eednot map into another decomposition.
When themapping is not one-to-one, we assume that dummynodes are inserted in the dependency structures othat the mapping naturally extends to be one-to-one.When the decompositions of parallel sentenceshave such an isomorphic one-to-one mapping, weassume that there are systematic methods to com-pute similarity between corresponding elements inthe decompositions and to compute similarity be-tween the corresponding dependency relations 3.We write the function defining the former sim-ilarity as f ,  and that of the latter as g. Then, fis a flmction over semi-complete DSs derived fi'omEnglish and Japanese parallel sentences into a realnumber, and 9 is a function over feature label sets3in the case of similarity between dependency relations,the original feature labels are taken into accotult.26of English and Japanese into a real number.Def in i t ion  10 Given dependency structures, DS1and DS,,, of two languages, tile structural match-ing problem is to find an isomorphic oT~e-to-onemapping m be*ween decompositions of DSa aT~dDS2 that maximizes the sum of the vahtes of simi-larity functions, f and g.That is, the problem is to find the fltnctioT~ m thatmaximizes~-~m(f( d,re(d)) + ~t  g(l, ,n.(/)))where d varies over semi-complete DS of DS1 andl varies over feature labels in D,-q.
1.The similarity functions can be defined in vari-ous ways.
"vVe assume some similarity measure be-tween Japanese and English words.
For instance,we assume that the similarity function f satisfiesthe following principles:1. f is a simple function defined by the similar-ity measure between content words of two la.n-guages.2.
Fine-grained decompositions get larger simi-larity measure than coarse-grained decompo-sitions.3.
Dummy nodes should give solne negative vahteto f .The first principle is to simplify the complexityof the structural matching a.lgorithm.
The secondis to obtain detailed structural matching betweenparallel sentences and to avoid trivial results, e.g.,the whole DSs are matched.
The third is to avoidthe introduction of dunnny nodes when it, is possi-ble.The fimction g should be defined according tothe language pair.
Although feature labels repre-sent grammatical relation between content wordsor phrases and may provide useful information formeasuring similarity, we do not use tile informa-tion at, our current stage.
The reason is that wefound it difficult to have a clear view on the re-lationship between feature labels of English andJapanese and on the meaning of feature labels be-tween semi-complete dependency structures.STRUCTURAL MATCHINGALGORITHMTile structural matching of two dependency struc-tures are combinatorially diflicult problem.
V~reapply the 1)ranch-and-bound method to solve tileproblem.Tile branch-and-bound algorithm is a top-downdepth-first backtracking algorithm for search prob-lems.
It looks for tile answers with the BEST score.Ill each new step, it estimates tile maximum valueof the expected scores along the current path andcompares it, with the currently known best score.The maxinmm expected score is usually calculatedby a. simplified problem that guarantees to give avalue not less than the best score attainable alongthe current path.
If the maximuna expectation isless than the currently known best score, it meansthat there is no chance to find better answers bypursuing the path.
Then, it gives up tile currentpath and hacktracks to try remaining paths.We regard a dependency structure as a treestructure that inchtdes disjunction (OR nodes),and call a content word and a dependency rela-tion as a node and an edge, respectively.
Thena semi-complete dependency structure correspondsto a connected subgraph in the tree.The matching of two dependency trees startsfrom the top nodes and the matching process goesalong edges of the trees.
During the matching pro-cess, three types of nondeterminisln arise:1.
Selection of top-most subgraphs in both of thetrees (i.e., selection of a semi-complete DS)2.
Selection of edges ill both of tile trees to decidethe correspondence of dependency relations3.
Selection of one of the disjuncts a.t an 'OR'nodeWhile tile matching is done top-down, the exactscore of the matched subgraphs is calculated us-ing the similarity function f .4  When the matchingprocess proceeds to the selection of the second type,it selects an edge in each of the dependency trees.The maximum expected score of matching the sub-trees under the selected edges are calculated fromthe sets of content words in the subtrees.
Tile cal-culation method of the maximum expected score isdefined ill solne relation with the similarity func-tion f .Suppose h is the function that gives the maxi-mum expected score of two subgraphs.
Also, sup-pose B and P be the currently known best score4~,Ve do not take into account the similar ity measurebetween dependency relations as stated in the precedingsection.27and the total score of the already matched sub-graphs, respectively.
If s and t are the subgraphsunder the selected edges and s' and t' are the wholerelnailfing subgraphs, the matching under s and twill be undertaken fi, rther only when the followinginequation holds:P + h(s,t) + h(s',t') > BAny selection of edges that does not satisfy thisinequality cannot provide better matching than thecurrently known best ones.All of the three types of nondeterminism are sim-ply treated as the nondeterminism in the algorithm.The syntactic ambiguities in the dependencystructures are resolved sponta.lmously when thematching with the best score is obtained.EXPERIMENTSWe have tested the structural matching algorithmwith 82 pairs of sample sentences randomly selectedfroln a Japanese-English dictionary.We used a machine readable Japanese-Englishdictionary (Shimizu 79) and Roget's thesaurus (Ro-get 11) to measure the silnilarity of pairs of contentwords, which are used to define the fimctiou f .S imi la r i ty  o f  word  pa i rsGiven a pair of Japanese and English sentences,we take two methods to lneasure the similarity be-tween Japanese and English content words appear-ing in the sentences.For each Japanese content word wj apl)earing inthe Japanese sentence, we can find a set of translat-able English words fl'om the Japanese-Ellglish die-tionary.
When the Japanese word is a. polysemousword, we select an English word fi'om each polyse-mous entry.
Let CE\] be the set of such translat-able English words of wj.
Suppose CE is the set ofcontents words in the English sentence.
The trans-latable pairs of w j, Tp(u u), is de.fined as follows:Tp(wj) = {(wj,'wE) \['we E CE., n C.'L,}We use Roget's thesaurus to measure similarityof other word pairs.
Roget's t.hesaurtls is regardedas a tree structure where words are a.llocated at theleaves of the tree: For each Japanese content word'wj appearing in tim Japanese sentence, we can de-fine the set of translatable English words of wa,CEj .
From each English word in the set., the mini-mum distance to each of the English content wordsappearing in the English sentence is measured.
5This minimum distance defines the similarity be-tween pairs of Japanese and English words.We decided to use this similarity only for esti-mating dissimilarity between Japanese and Englishword pairs.
We set a predetermined threshold dis-tance.
If the minimal distance exceeds the thresh-old, the exceeded istance is counted as the nega-tive similarity.The similarity of two words Wl and w2 appear-ing in the given pair of sentences, im((wl, w~)), isdefined as follows:) =6 (wl, w2) E Tp(wl) or ('w2, 'wx) E Tp(w2)-I~ (,w~, w.) ~t Tp(w~) and (w2, w~) ft Tp(w.,)and the distance between wl and w.,exceeds the threshold by k.0 otherwiseS imi la r i ty  of  semi -complete  DSsThe similarity between corresponding semi-complete DSs is defined based on the similarity be-tween the content words.
Suppose that s and t aresemi-colnplete DSs to be matched, and that Vs andVt are the sets of content words in s and t. Let Abe the less larger set of l~ and Vt and B be theother (I A I<l B I).
For each injection p from Ainto B, the set of word pairs D derived from p canbe defined as follows.Now, we define the similarity fimction f overJapaaese and English semi-colnplete DSs to givethe naa.xinmm value to the following expression forall possible injections:(= max/  ?
O.951vd+IVd -~JThe summation gives the maximuna sum of thesimilarity of the content words in s and t. 0.95 isthe penalty when the semi-complete DSs with morethan one content words are used in the matching.Figures 1, 2 and 3 shows the results of the struc-tural matching algorithm, in which the translatablepairs obtained fi'om the Japanese-English dictio-nary are shown by the equations.5 The dlstaame between words is tile length of tile shortestpath in the thesatu'us tree.28Table 1: Results of experiment, sParsing J al)anese and English sent.enccsNumber of sentences 82Parse failure 23Parsable 59Correct parsabilityCorrectpa.rse \] 53 \] 89.8%(53/59)Incorrect parse 6 10.2% (6/59)The match with tile best score includesCorrect matching 47 89% (47/53)no correct naatching 6 11% (6/53)Single correct matching 34 64% (34/53)Resu l ts  o f  the exper imentsWe used 82 pairs of Japanese and English sen-tences appearing in a Japanese-English dictionary.The results were checked and examined in detail byhand.
Some of the sentences are not parsable be-cause of the limited coverage of our current gram-mars.
Although 59 pairs of them are parsable, 6out of them do not include correct parse results.The structural matchi,lg algorithm with the set-ting described above is applied to the 53 pairs.
Thecases where the correct, matchilig is not included inthe best rated answers are 6 out of them.
Theremaining 47 pairs include the correct matching,of which 31 pairs result in the correct matchinguniquely.
Tal)le 1 sumnaarizes tile results.EVALUATION AND DISCUSSIONAlthough the number of sentences used in tile ex-periments is small, the result, shows that abouttwo third of the pairs give the unique matching,in which every syntactic ambiguity is resolved.The cases where no correct matching was ob-tained needs be examined.
Some sentences containan idiomatic expression that has coml)letely differ-ent syntactic structures fl'om the sentence struc-ture of the other.
Such an expression will 110 waybe matched correctly except that the whole struc-tures are matched intact.
Other cases are caused bycomplex sentences that include an embedded sen-tence.
When the verbs at the roots of the depen-dency trees are irrelevant, extraordinary matchingsare produced.
We intend not to use our method tomatch complex or compound sentences as a whole.~,?e will rather use our method to find structuralmatching between simple sentences or verb phrasesof two languages.Tile matching problmn of complex sentences areregarded as a different problem though the simi-lar technique is usable.
We think that the scoresof matched phrases will help to identify tile cor-responding phrases when we match complex sen-tences.Taking the sources of other errors into consider-ation, possible improvements are:1.
Enhancement of English and Japanese gram-mars for wider coverage and lower error rate.2.
Introduction of more precise similarity mea-surement of content words.3.
Utilization of grammatical information:?
Feature labels, for estimating matchingplausibility of dependency relations?
Part of speech, for measuring matchingplausibility of content words?
Other grammatical information: mood,voice, etc.The first two iml)rovements are undoubtedly im-portant.
As for the similarity measurement of con-tent words, completely different approaches uchas statistical methods may be useful to get goodtranslatable pairs (Brown 90), (Gale 91).Various grammatical information is kept in thefeature descriptions produced in the parsing pro-cess.
However, we should be very prudent in usingit.
Since English and Japanese are grammaticallyquite different, some grammatical rela.tion may notbe preserved between them.
In Figure 3, solid ar-rows and circles show the correct matching.
While'benefit' matches with the structure consisting of ',~,,~ ' and ' ~_.~ ~ ', their dependent words 'trade'and ' H~:~'  modify them as a verb modifierand as a noun modifier, the grammatical relationof which are quite different.This example highlights another interestingpoint.
Dotted arrows and circles show anothermatching with the salne highest score.
In this case,' japan' is taken as a verb.
This rather strange in-terpretation insists that ' japan' matches with ' H~' and ' .~  6 '.
Since ' japan' as a verb has little se-lnantic relation with ' \[\]:~ ' as a country, discrim-ination of part-of-speech seems to be useful.
Onthe other hand, the correspondence between 'ben-efit' and ' ~ ,~ ' is found in their noun entry in thedictionary.
Since 'benefit' is used as a verb in the29sentence, taking part-of-speech into considerationmay jeopardize the correct matching, either.
Thefact that the verb and noun usages of 'benefit' bearcommon concept implies that more precise similar-ity measurement will solve this particular probleln.Since the interpretations of the sample English sen-tences are in different mood, imperative and declar-ative, the mood of a. sentence is also usefnl to re-move irrelevant interpretations.CONCLUSIONSThe structural matchillg problem of parallel textsis formally defined and our current implementationand experilnents are introduced.
Although the re-search is at the preliminary stage and has a. verysimple setting, the experiments have shown a. nuln-ber of interesting results.
The method is easilyenhanced by ilnproving the gramnm.rs and by in-corporating more accurate similarity measurement.Number of other researches of building tra.nsla-tion dictionaries and of deterlnining similarity re-lationship between words are useful to improve ourmethod.To extract useful information fl'om bilingual cor-pora, structural matching is inevitable for languagepairs like English and Japanese that have quite dif-ferent linguistic structure.
Incidentally, we havefound that this dissimilarity plays an importantrole in resolving syntactic ambiguities ince thesources of anlbiguities in English and Japanese sen-tences are in many cases do not coincide (Utsuro92).
We are currently working on extracting verbalcase frames of Japanese fi'om the results of struc-tural matching of a aal)anese-l~nglish corpus (Ut-suro 93).
The salne teclmique is naturally a.pplica-ble to acquire verbal case fi'ames of English as well.Another application we are envisaging is to extracttranslation pattern from the results of structuralmatching.We plan to work on possible improvements dis-cussed in the preceding section, and will make largescale experiments using translated newspal~er arti-cles, based on the phrase matching stra.t.egy.ACKNOWLEDGMENTSThis work is partly supported by the (-;rantsfrom Ministry of Education, "Knowledge Science"(#03245103).REFERENCESBrown, P.F., et al, A Statistical Approach to Ma-chine Translation, Computalional Linguistics,Vo1.16, No.2, pp.79-85, 1990.Brown, P.F., Lai, J.C. and Mercer, R.L., Align-ing Sentences ill Parallel Corpora, ACL-91,pp.169-176, 1991.Dagan, I., Itai, A. and Schwall, U., Two Lan-guages are More Iuformative than One, ACL-91, pp.130-137, 1991a.Gale.
W.A.
and Church, K.W., A Programfor Aligning Sentences in Bilingual Corpora,ACL-91, pp.177-184, 1991b.Gale.
W.A.
and Church, K.W., IdentifyingWord Correspondences in Parallel Texts, '91DARPA Speech and Natural Language Work-shop, pp.152-157, 1991.Kaji, H., Kida, Y., and Morimoto, Y., LearningTranslation Templates froln Bilingual Text,COLING-92, pp.672-678, 1992.Kasper, R., A Unification Method for Disjunc-tive Feature Descriptions, ACL-87, pp.235-242, 1987.Klavans, J. and Tzoukermann, E., The BICORDSystem: Combining Lexical Information fromBilingual Corpora.
and Machine Readable Dic-tionaries, COLING-90, pp.174-179, 1990.Miller, G.A., et al, Five Papers on WordNet, Cog-nilive Science Laboratory, Princeton Univer-sity, CSL Report 43, July 1990.Roget, S.R., Roget's Thesaurus, Crowell Co.,1911.Sadler, V., The Textual Knowledge Bank: De-sign, Construction, Applications, Proc.
h~ler-national Workshop on Fundamental Researchfor the Future Generation of Natural LanguageProcessing (FGNLP), pp.17-32, Kyoto, Japan,1991.Shimizu, M., et al (ed.
), Japanese-English Dictio-nary, Kodansha, 1979.Utsuro, T., Matsumoto, Y., and Nagao, M., Lexi-cal Knowledge Acquisition from Bilingual Cor-pora., COLING-92, pp.581-587, 1992.Utsuro, T., Matsumoto, Y., a.nd Nagao, M., Ver-bal Case Frame Acquisition from BilingualCorpora, to appear IJCAI-93, 1993.30
