TEXT SEGMENTATIONBASED ON S IMILARITY  BETWEEN WORDSHidek i  Koz imaCourse in Computer  Science and Informat ion Mathemat ics ,Graduate  School, University of E lectro-Communicat ions1-5-1,  Chofugaoka, Chofu,Tokyo 182, Japan(xkozima@phaeton.
cs.uec, ac.
jp)Abst ractThis paper proposes a new indicator of text struc-ture, called the lexical cohesion profile (LCP),which locates segment boundaries in a text.
Atext segment is a coherent scene; the words ina segment a~e linked together via lexical cohesionrelations.
LCP records mutual similarity of wordsin a sequence of text.
The similarity of words,which represents their cohesiveness, i  computedusing a semantic network.
Comparison with thetext segments marked by a number of subjectsshows that LCP closely correlates with the hu-man judgments.
LCP may provide valuable in-formation for resolving anaphora nd ellipsis.INTRODUCTIONA text is not just a sequence of words, but it hascoherent structure.
The meaning of each wordcan not be determined until it is placed in thestructure of the text.
Recognizing the structureof text is an essential task in text understanding,especially in resolving anaphora nd ellipsis.One of the constituents of the text struc-ture is a text segment.
A text segment, whetheror not it is explicitly marked, as are sentences andparagraphs, is defined as a sequence of clauses orsentences that display local coherence.
It resem-bles a scene in a movie, which describes the sameobjects in the same situation.This paper proposes an indicator, called thelexical cohesion profile (LCP), which locates eg-ment boundaries in a narrative text.
LCP is arecord of lexical cohesiveness of words in a se-quence of text.
Lexical cohesiveness i definedas word similarity (Kozima and Furugori, 1993)computed by spreading activation on a semanticnetwork.
Hills and valleys of LCP closely corre-late with changing of segments.SEGMENTS AND COHERENCESeveral methods to capture segment boundarieshave been proposed in the studies of text struc-ture.
For example, cue phrases play an impor-tant role in signaling segment changes.
(Groszand Sidner, 1986) However, such clues are not di-rectly based on coherence which forms the clausesor sentences into a segment.Youmans (1991) proposed VMP (vocabu-lary management profile) as an indicator of seg-ment boundaries.
VMP is a record of the numberof new vocabulary terms introduced in an inter-val of text.
However, VMP does not work well ona high-density text.
The reason is that coherenceof a segment should be determined not only byreiteration of words but also by lexical cohesion.Morris and Hirst (1991) used Roget's the-saurus to determine whether or not two wordshave lexical cohesion.
Their method can cap-ture ahnost all the types of lexical cohesion, e.g.systematic and non-systematic semantic relation.However it does not deal with strength of cohe-siveness which suggests the degree of contributionto coherence of the segment.Computing Lexieal CohesionKozima and Furugori (1993) defined lexical co-hesiveness as semantic similarity between words,and proposed a method for measuring it.
Sim-ilarity between words is computed by spreadingactivation on a semantic network which is system-atically constructed from an English dictionary(LDOCE).The similarity cr(w,w') E \[0,1\] betweenwords w,w ~ is computed in the following way:(1) produce an activated pattern by activatingthe node w; (2) observe activity of the node w tin the activated pattern.
The following examplessuggest he feature of the similarity ~r:?r (cat, pet)  = 0.133722 ,o" (cat, hat) = 0.001784 ,?r (waiter,  res taurant )  = 0.175699 ,cr (pa inter ,  res taurant )  = 0.006260 .The similarity ~r depends on the significances(w) E \[0, 1\], i.e.
normalized information of theword w in West's corpus (1953).
For example:s(red) = 0.500955 , s(and) = 0.254294 .2860.40.2  :0.1alcohol_drink_lN I Idr ink_2'q I ~ k .
._kr e-d_ 1NL_J \]bott le_Ik___~wine _ 1~___~po ison- l~\ ]  ~ I I I I Iswallow~l~___~--1 I I I I I I I Ispirit_l2 4 6 8 10s tepsFigure 1.
An activated pattern of a word list(produced from {red, alcoholic, drink}).The following examples how the relationship be-tween the word significance and the similarity:(waiter, waiter) = 0.596803 ,a (red, blood) ---- 0.111443 ,(of, blood) = 0.001041 .LEXICAL COHESION PROFILELCP of the text T= {wl , ' " ,wg} is a sequence{ c( $1 ),.
?., e( SN ) } of lexic al cohesiveness e(Si ).
Siis the word list which can be seen through a fixed-width window centered on the i-th word of T:Si--{Wl, Wl+l ,  " " " , wi-1, wi, Wi+l ,  " " ?
, Wr--1, Wr},1 =i - -A  (ifi_<A, then l= l ) ,r = i+A (if i>N- -A ,  then r=N) .LCP treats the text T as a word list without anypunctuation or paragraph boundaries.Cohes iveness  o f  a Word  L is tLexical cohesiveness c(Si) of the word list Si isdefined as follows:c(S ) = w) ,where a(P(Si),w) is the activity value of thenode w in the activated pattern P(Si).
P(Si)is produced by activating each node w E Si withstrength s(w)~/~ s(w).
Figure 1 shows a sam-ple pattern of {red, a lcohol ic ,  drink}.
(Notethat it has highly activated nodes like bot t le  andwine.
)The definition of c(Si) above expresses thatc(Si) represents emantic homogeneity of S/,since P(Si) represents the average meaning ofw 6 S~.. For example:c("Mol ly saw a cat.
It was her familypet.
She wished to keep a lion.
"= 0.403239 (cohesive),c( "There is no one but me.
Put onyour clothes.
I can not walk more."
---- 0.235462 (not cohesive).LCPV~LCPolo o o o o lo \ [o  o .
.
.
\ ] .
.wordsF igure 2.
Correlation between LCPand text segments.0.60 .50 .40 .3loo 2;o 4ooi (words)F igure 3.
An example of LCP(using rectangular window of A=25)LCP  and  I t s  FeatureA graph of LCP, which plots c(Si) at the textposition i, indicates changing of segments:?
If S/ is inside a segment, it tends to be co-hesive and makes c(Si) high.?
If Si is crossing asegment boundary, it tendsto semantically vary and makes c(Si) low.As shown in Figure 2, the segment boundariescan be detected by the valleys (minimum points)of LCP.The LCP, shown in Figure 3, has large hillsand valleys, and also meaningless noise.
Thegraph is so complicated that one can not easilydeternfine which valley should be considered as asegment boundary.The shape of the window, which definesweight of words in it for pattern production,makes LCP smooth.
Experiments on several win-dow shapes (e.g.
triangle window, etc.)
showsthat Hanning window is best for clarifying themacroscopic features of LCP.The width of the window also has effect onthe macroscopic features of LCP, especially onseparability of segments.
Experiments on severalwindow widths (A_  5 ~ 60) reveals that the Han-ning window of A = 25 gives the best correlationbetween LCP and segments.287LCP0.7"0.6 :0.50.40.316Segmen-14 tations12lO.6'4? '
izi ,.J i i I 0100  200 300 400 500 600 700i (words)F igure  4.
Correlation between LCP and segment boundaries.VERIF ICAT ION OF  LCPThis section inspects the correlation betweenLCP and segment boundaries perceived by thehuman judgments.
The curve of Figure 4 showsthe LCP of the simplified version of O.Henry's"Springtime ?
la Carte" (Thornley, 1960).
Thesolid bars represent he histogram of segmentboundaries reported by 16 subjects who read thetext without paragraph structure.It is clear that the valleys of the LCP cor-respond mostly to the dominant segment bound-aries.
For example, the clear valley at i = 110exactly corresponds to the dominant segmentboundary (and also to the paragraph boundaryshown as a dotted line).Note that LCP can detect segment changingof a text regardless of its paragraph structure.For example, i = 156 is a paragraph boundary,but neither a valley of the LCP nor a segmentboundary; i = 236 is both a segment boundaryand approximately a valley of the LCP, but nota paragraph boundary.However, some valleys of the LCP do notexactly correspond to segment boundaries.
Forexample, the valley near i = 450 disagree withthe segment boundary at i = 465.
The reason isthat lexical cohesion can not cover all aspect ofcoherence of a segment; an incoherent piece oftext can be lexically cohesive.CONCLUSIONThis paper proposed LCP, an indicator of seg-ment changing, which concentrates on lexicalcohesion of a text segment.
The experimentproved that LCP closely correlate with the seg-ment boundaries captured by the human judg-ments, and that lexical cohesion plays main rolein forming a sequence of words into segments.Text segmentation described here providesbasic information for text understanding:?
Resolving anaphora nd ellipsis:Segment boundaries provide valuable re-striction for determination of the referents.?
Analyzing text structure:Segment boundaries can be considered assegment switching (push and pop) in hier-archical structure of text.The segmentation can be applied also to textsummarizing.
(Consider a list of average meaningof segments.
)In future research, the author needs to ex-amine validity of LCP for other genres - -  Hearst(1993) segments expository texts.
Incorporatingother clues (e.g.
cue phrases, tense and aspect,etc.)
is also needed to make this segmentationmethod more robust.ACKNOWLEDGMENTSThe author is very grateful to Dr. Teiji Furugori,University of Electro-Communications, for his in-sightful suggestions and comments on this work.REFERENCESGrosz, Barbara J., and Sidner, Candance L.
(1986).
"Attention, intentions, and the structure of dis-course."
Computational Linguistics, 12, 175-204.Halliday, Michael A. K., Hasan, Ruqaiya (1976).
Che-sion in English.
Longman.Hearst, Marti, and Plaunt, Christian (1993).
"Sub-topic structuring for full-length document access,"to appear in SIGIR 1993, Pittsburgh, PA.Kozima, Hideki, and Furugori, Teiji (1993).
"Simi-larity between words computed by spreading ac-tivation on an English dictionary."
to appear inProceedings o\] EA CL-93.Morris, Jane, and Hirst, Graeme (1991).
"Lexicalcohesion computed by thesaural relations as anindicator of the structure of text."
ComputationalLinguistics, 17, 21-48.Thornley, G. C. editor (1960).
British and Ameri-can Short Stories, (Longman Simplified EnglishSeries).
Longman.West, Michael (1953).
A General Service List of En-glish Words.
Longman.Youmans, Gilbert (1991).
"A new tool for discourseanalysis: The vocabulary-management profile.
"Language, 67, 763-789.288
