TWO KINDS OF METONYMYDavid  Stal lardBBN Systems and Techno log ies70 Fawcett  StreetCambr idge,  MA 02138,  USAIntemet:  s ta l lard@bbn.comABSTRACTWe propose a distinction between two kinds ofmetonymy: "referential" metonymy, in which the refer-ent of an NP is shifted, and "predicative" metonymy, inwhich the referent of the NP is unchanged and the ar-gument place of the predicate is shifted instead.
Exam-ples are, respectively, "The hamburger is waiting for hischeck" and "Which airlines fly from Boston to Denver".We also show that complications arise for both types ofmetonymy when multiple coercing predicates are con-sidered.
Finally, we present implemented algorithmshandling these complexities that generate both types ofmetonymic reading, as well as criteria for choosing onetype of metonymic reading over another.1 INTRODUCTIONThe phenomenon f semantic oercion, or "metonymy",is quite a common one in natural language.
Inmetonymy, the actual argument of a predicate is notthe literal argument, but is instead implicit and relatedto the literal argument through an implicit binary rela-tion.
For example, in the following utterances, takenfrom Lakoff and Johnson (1980):(1) The ham sandwich is waiting for his check(2) Nixon bombed Hanoiit is not literally the ham sandwich which is doing thewalling, but rather the person who ordered it, and notliterally Nixon who is doing the bombing, but rather thepilots under his command.
The noun phrase - "The hamsandwich", "Nixon" - is said to be "coerced" throughan implicit binary relation to a related object which isthe actual argument of the predicate.Perhaps the most familar definition of metonymyfrom the literature is that it is a figure of speech inwhich the speaker is "using one entity to refer to an-other that is related to it" (Lakoff and Johnson,1980).This definition is quite commonly held in one formor another.
(For example, see (Fass,1991), where itis directly quoted; also similar definitions in (Puste-jovsky,1991), (Hobbs,1988)).
But what does it reallymean?
Does it mean that the coerced noun phrase isactually an indirect reference to an object different fromits literal referent?If so, then we might expect other linguistic data tosupport his.
For example, we might expect subsequentanaphora to agree with the "real" referent.
And indeed,in the following dialogue the intra-sentential pronoun"his" and the extra-sentential "he" both agree with theindirect reference to the customer, not the the literalsandwich:(3) The ham sandwich is waiting for his checkHe is getting a little impatientBut compare the dialogues(4) Nixon bombed Hanoi.He wanted to force the Communists to negotiate(4') Nixon bombed Hanoi*They sang all the way back to SaigonThe dialogue (4) is quite natural, while in (4'), the useof "they" to refer to the bomber crews seems ruled out- the reverse of what the indirect reference view wouldpredict.A second problem with the indirect reference viewis found in certain performative contexts, such as wh-questions and imperatives, in which the referent of aparticular NP is sought by the speaker.
If this NPis metonymically coerced, we could expect the cor-rect response to the utterance to be the indirect refer-ence.
Consider, the following examples, which are ac-tual utterances collected for the DARPA ATIS domain(MADCOW,1992), a database question-answering do-main about commercial ir flights:(5) Which wide-body jets serve dinner?
(6) Which airlines fly from Boston to Denver?87In ATIS, only flights "fly" or "serve meals" and thusboth sentences can only be understood metonymically.In (5), it is not the jets which serve dinner but theflights on the jets, and one plausible constmal is indeedthat "wide-body jets" is really a reference to flights onwide-body jets, and the interpretation f the sentence isa request to display the set of these flights.
This wouldagree with the indirect reference view.In (6), however, the only possible construal seemsto be that a set of airlines - the airlines offering flightsfrom boston to Denver - is being sought.
To respondto this request with the set of flights from Boston toDenver would clearly be absurd.We propose adistinction, motivated by such exam-ples, between two kinds of metonymy, which we termreferential and predicative.
In referential metonymy,the metonymic noun phrase does indeed have an in-tended referent related to but different from its literalmeaning.
An example is the noun phrase "the hamsandwich" in (1) above, where the actual and intendedreferent is to a related object - the person who orderedthe sandwhich.
In predicative metonymy, however, theactual and intended referent of the noun phrase is justthe literal one, and it is more accurate to say that thepredicate is coerced (though as we show later, thisis itself a simplification).
An example of predicativemetonymy is (6) above.We also show how both types of metonymy arecomplicated by the presence of multiple predicates thatrequire the same coercion of an NP.
We present al-gorithms for generating the two types of metonymicreading that cope with these complexities.
Finally, wepresent criteria for determining a preference for onetype of metonymic reading over another.
(We do not,however, deal in this paper with the question of how todetermine which relations to use for coercion, viewingthis as a separate problem.
)The examples throughout are taken from the ATISdomain, a domain with a pre-established formal concep-tual system of categories and relations that utterancesmust be mapped onto.
The algorithms presented are im-plemented in the DELPIM system (Bobrow et a1,1991),which has been ported to that domain and formally eval-uated in it.The remainder of the paper is organized into thefollowing sections:Section 2, the next section, formalizes the distinc-tion between referential and predicative metonymy bygiving logical form readings for each, and shows howboth types of metonymy are globally complicated whenmultiple coercing predicates are considered.Section 3 gives an algorithm for generating bothtypes of metonymic readings in semantic interpretationthat handles these global complications.Section 4 gives criteria for picking one type of read-ing over anotherFinally, section 5 compares our work to previouswork on metonymy.2 METONYMY AND LOGICAL  FORMIn this section we sharpen and formalize our notion ofreferential nd predicative metonymy by giving logicalform readings for the different cases.The logical language we use has sortal quantifiers,with a special quantifier "WH".
A wh question is thetreated as:(7) (wh x S (and (P1 x) (P2 x)))which is interpreted as a request to display all membersof S (the semantic lass of the wh-np) which satisfy bothP1 (the modifiers of the wh-np) and P2 (the predicateof the clause).
A labeled-argument notation is used forclause semantics.Now, let us return to the examples of the previoussection.
In (5), the referential metonymic reading of thesentence in which flights are sought that serve dinnerand are on wide-body jets is expressed as:(8) Which wide-body jets serve dinner?
(wh x flights(and (exists y jets(and (aircraft-of x y)(wide-body )))(serve flight-of xmeal-of dinner)))where coercion relation is AIRCRAFT-OF, mappingbetween flights and the aircraft hey are on.Compare this with the reading for (6), in whichairlines and not flights are sought:(9) Which airlines fly from Boston to Denver?
(wh x airlines(exists y flights(and (airline-of y x)(fly flight-of yorig-of Bostondest-of Denver))))88The readings of the referential (8) and and the predica-tive (9) are in a sense inside-out versions of each other.Both have an interpolated quantifier for FLIGHTS thatis not explicitly present in the utterance but in (8) theinterpolated is on the outside and is the WH-thing dis-played whereas in (9) the interpolated quantifier is onthe inside, and is merely part of the description of whatis to be displayed.
This, in logical terms, is the crux ofthe referential/predicative distinction.Predicative metonymy can be loosely thought of ascoercion of a predicate argument place, rather than ofthe argument NP itself.
It may therefore seem attractiveto try to formalize this in a directly compositional waythrough some device such as lambda-abstraction.
If  Pis the predicate, R the binary relation of coercion, andi the argument-number of P to be coerced, the coercedversion of P might then be defined in such a view as:(lambda (zl ..... xi,...z,~)(exists y (domain R)(and (R y ~i) (P 21 ..... Y,-..~,~))))This is a predicate just like P, except extended by therelation R in its i'th argument place to take an object inthe range of R. Metonymic extension of the predicatewould be then be an essentially compositional, ocalprocess, taking place at the juncture of predicate andargument and not affecting interpretation elsewhere.Unfortunately, such a treatment turns out to give thewrong interpretation when multiple predicates requiringthe same coercion are present.
Consider:(10a) Which airlines flying from Boston to Denverleave at 3 pm?
(10b) Show airlines flying from Boston to Denverleaving at 3 pmBoth examples are predicative metonymic utterances.Airlines neither "fly" nor "leave"; flights do these, soboth the main verb and the relative clause modifier pred-icates require airline-to-flight coercions.
If  the lambda-abstraction scheme is right each predicate-applicationcouM be dealt with separately.Yet the following reading for 10a, which wouldresult from the application of the lambda-abstractionscheme to the two predicates, is emphatically not thecorrect reading:(11) (wh x airlines(and (exists y flights(airline-of y x)(fly flight-of yorig-of Bostondest-of Denver))(exists y'  flights(airline-of y' x)(leave flight-of y'time-of (3 pro)))))These troth-conditions are too weak, as they allow air-lines that have a Boston to Denver flight at any time,so long as they have another (possibly different) flightat 3 pm to any place.
The proper eading is instead:(12) (wh x airlines(exists y flights(and (airline-of y x)(fly flight-of yorig-of Bostondest-of Denver)(leave flight-of ytime-of (3 pm)))))in which the airline is related to a single flight descrip-tion that has all the desired properties.Note that the issue here is not that one predicateis intemal to the NP and the other external to it.
Thesame problem arises with whatever combination of in-ternal and external predicates.
In 10b, for example,both predicates are internal to the NP but if the twocoercions are carried out seperately the same erroneoustroth-conditions will result, in which the AIRLINE isrelated to two different FLIGHT descriptions instead ofone.Nor is the "single-interpolation" requirement re-lated specifically to the referential\]predicative d stinc-tion.
I f  we modify one of our referential examples toinclude multiple coercing predicates, as below:The ham sandwich at table 12 is impatientwe see that a correct reading would still require that theham sandwich be related to one and only one interpo-lated description of a person that ordered the sandwich,is seated at table 12, and is impatient.That fact that multiple coercions of the same NP,whether internal or external to it, cannot be carried outseparately means that the phenomenon of metonymytakes on a decisively global character, one which is asmuch akin to quantifier scoping as it is to compositional89semantic interpretation.
As we shall see in the nextsection, the quantifier scoping stage of processing isexactly where we locate the solution to these problems.3 GENERATING THE READINGSWe now show how referential and predicativemetonymic readings are generated, and how the require-ment of a single interpolate for multiple coercions isenforced.3.1 Input RepresentationA two-stage mechanism of semantic interpretation isused in the DELPHI system.
In the first stage, an ini-tial predicate-argument level of semantic representationis produced, with quantifiers in place.
In the second,a fully quantified logical form is generated, in whichquantifiers are pulled out of the predicate-argument rep-resentation and placed in their proper elative scope.
Itis in this second stage that the referential/predicativedistinction is made.The first stage of semantic interpretation has beendescribed elsewhere in (Bobrow et al1991), and we donot discuss it here except o describe its output, whichforms the input to the quantification stage.
This outputis a tree of whose nodes are phrasal representation b-jects.
Each of these phrasal representation bjects has ahead and a set of bindings.
The head includes semantictype information (as well as other information such assubcategorization etc.
), while the bindings represent thesemantic effects of modifiers on the head.
Each bindinghas four parts:1. the modifier grammatical relation2.
the modifier semantic relation3.
the filler of this semantic relation4.
a binary coercion relationThe following is the top-level phrasal representationfor "Which airlines fly from Boston to Denver?
":CLAUSE:head: flysubject: flight-of, (wh airlines), airline-ofpp: orig-of, Boston, identitypp: dest-of, Denver, identityThis representation has three bindings: a SUBJECTand two PP-complements.
In the two PP bindings, theranges of the modifier semantic relations ORIG-OF andand DEST-OF are both CITY, which agrees with theexplict fillers BOSTON and DENVER.
Thus, in thesebindings no coercion is needed and the coercion relationis just IDENTITY.
But in the SUBJECT binding, therange of the modifier elation FLIGHT-OF is FLIGHTand the explicit filler is an AIRLINE.
Here, the coer-cion relation AIRLINE-OF is required to bridge the gapbetween FLIGHT and AIRLINE.NP semantic representations have the same struc-ture, plus a quantifier.
Here is the representation for"which airline"NP:head: AIRLINEquant: whWe refer to the constituent modifier bindings of the NPitself as its "intemal" bindings.
In this particular exam-ple, there are no internal modifiers and thus no internalbindings.
When an NP is a constituent of a clause (oris the object of a PP which is), we call the binding inwhich the NP occurs its "external" binding.Semantic representations of this kind are neutral notonly with respect o quantifier scoping, but to the dis-tinction between predicative and referential metonymyas well.
From the standpoint of the predicate, one canthink of the coercion relation as extending the givenargument place of the predicate to take an argument ofa different ype.
From the standpoint of the NP argu-ment, on the other hand, the coercion can be viewed asmapping the NP in the "reverse" direction of the rela-tion, from range AIRLINE to domain FLIGHT insteadof from domain to range.3.2 AlgorithmThe alternative metonymic readings are generated fromthese semantic representations a  part of the quantifierscoping pass.
There are two steps.Step 1, carded out before quantification begins, isto walk the phrasal representation Ixee and build a "co-ercion table" relating each nominal head N to the set ofcoercion relations on it:R~ - the coercion relation of N's external bindingR~ - the coercion relations of N's internal bindingsAs a technical convenience, IDENTITY relations in theR,,R~ are subscripted with the semantic type restric-tion T of the binding in which they occur.
This typerestriction is simply the range of the semantic modifierrelation in the binding.90Step 2 is to pull the quantifiers out of this StlUC-ture and into their proper places in a complete formula.For an NP with a non-IDENTITY entry in the coercionrelation, alternative WFF-generating schemas are usedto generate the alternative referential and predicativemetonymic readings.In what follows, let N be the noun phrase underconsideration and let Q be its quantifier and S its sort.Let R be any relation which is not IDENTITY andwhich is one of the coercion relations associated withN in the table - whether Re or one of the Ri.Now, consider all the internal bindings of N whichhave R as their coercion relation.
Let the MR and F~be respectively the semantic modifier elations and cor-responding arguments of these bindings.
Let the Mo,Fo and Ro be, respectively, the semantic modifier e-lations, arguments and coercion relations of bindingswhich do not have R as their coercion relation.The operation of reading generation is to pick anon-IDENTITY R from N's table, and apply the twoschemas.
To generate the predicative reading, the fol-lowing schema is used:(QxS{(Mo x Fo)}(exists y (domain R)(and (R y x){(MR y FR)})***))The token "***" indicates the open slot for the matrixpredicate of the clause, and the brackets "{","}" areshorthand for conjoined iteration over the subscripteditems within.Note that the interpolated EXISTS quantifer hasscope over the matrix formula of the clause, so it willgovern any external R coercion for N. Furthermore, be-cause all the R coercions are gathered together in thisscheme, the same quantifier will govern any R coer-cions which are internal to the NP.
This fufills the re-quirement of the previous ection: that there be one andonly one quantifier for a given coercion, even when thatcoercion is needed both by internal modifier relationsand by the external clause in which the noun phrase iscontained.Use of the schema for our example above generatesthe interpretation:Which airlines fly from Boston to Denver?
(wh x AIRLINE(exists y FLIGHT(AIRLINE-OF y x)(FLY flight-of yorig-of Bostondest-of Denver)))as desired.In order to enforce the restriction that subsequentanaphora resolve to the literal AIRLINE and not the in-terpolated FLIGHT (and, similarly, to "Nixon" insteadof the pilots in our earlier example) we add a diacriticto the interpolated quantifier '(exists y FLIGHT ...)'that forbids the discourse component from resolving ananaphor to this quantified escription.The referential metonymic reading is generated bya different schema.
In order to use this schema, thefollowing condition must hold:(Re = R) V (Re = IDENTITYT  A (domainR) C T)This condition ensures that a semantically ill-formedexpression will not result and simply requires that thetype requirement of the external binding of the NP tobe referentially coerced agrees with the coerced ver-sion.
Either the coercion must be dictated by the ex-ternal binding itself, or the external binding's type re-quirement must be loose enough to accept he coercedversion (as in the case of a loosely-typed predicate like"show").I f  these conditions hold, then the following schemacan be used to produce the referential reading:(Q x (domain R)(and (exists y S (and {(Ma y Fa)} (R x y)){(Mo x Fo)}))***)Use of the schema generates the following reading forour example:Which wide-body jets serve dinner?
(wh x FLIGHT(exists y JET(and (WIDE-BODY y)(AIRCRAFT-OF x y)(SERVE flight-of xmeal-of DINNER))))In principle, of course, a given NP's entry in thecoercion table can have more than one distinct non-IDENTITY coercion relation.
Obviously in such a casethere can be at most one referential coercion of the NP.91All other coercions to different semantics types mustthen be predicative.
In the case of multiple predicativecoercions, the predicative schema is simply iterated.We arbitrarily disallow chains of coercions ("double-shifting"), though these in principle could be accomo-dated.4 DETERMIN ING THE CORRECTREADINGThus far we have argued for different types ofmetonymic reading and shown how to generate them,but have not given any indication of when a given typeof reading is to be preferred.
How do we know, forexample, that the predicative reading and not the refer-ential is correct in (6) "Which airlines fly from Bostonto Denver"?A few criteria are fairly obvious.
One we havealready seen in the previous section: the external-binding agreement condition on applying the referen-tial metonymy schema.
If  an NP's external semanticcontext agrees with its literal referent, but not its refer-entially coerced version, then referential metonymy isruled out for that N'P.A somewhat broader notion of external semanticcontext is found in intra-sentential anaphora:The ham sandwich is waiting for HIS checkWhich airline flies to ITS headquarters city?Clearly, we would prefer any intra-sentential anaphorato agree with the "real" referent of the NP.
In the firstsentence above, the pronoun "his" cannot agree with theliteral referent, but can agree with the metonymicaUyinterpolated PERSON, and so provides evidence for thereferential reading.
In the second sentence, the pronoun"its" cannot agree in number with the interpolated setof FLIGHTs, but can agree with the singular "airline",and so provides evidence for the predicative reading.Neither of these two criteria addresses example (6),however.
Our hypothesis i that the real distinction be-ing made here is pragmatic.
An important principle oflanguage use (essentially part of the Gricean Maximof Quantity (Grice,1975)) is that a cooperative speakerwill avoid adding a part of a description which self-evidently adds no constraint to the set of things beingdescribed.
This is the reason why such pleonasms as"female woman" sound odd to us, and are not normallyuttered.
In this light, the referential reading of the sen-tence above:(wh x FLIGHT(exists y AIRLINE(AIRLINE-OF x y))(FLY flight-of xorig-of Bostondest-of Denver))has a completely redundant component, since everyflight is on some airline.
Yet this redundant componentis precisely the one introduced to handle the coercion!Encoding the reference in this way has no utility: onemight as well have said "which flights" to begin with.We can formalize this principle as follows.
LetR be the coercion relation and let S be the literal NPreferent-set.
Then the referential coercion of the NPcan be written as the pairing (R,S), which describes aproperty on the domain of R that picks out just thesubset of the domain of R that is obtained by mappingS back into the domain in the "reverse" direction of R.Such a property is considered vacuous if it provides noconstraint on the domain, or in other words if:R is a total relation and S = (RANGE R)holds.
A total, or "into", relation is one which mapsevery element of its domain to at least one element ofits range.
Since every flight in ATIS is on an airline,AIRLINE-OF is a total relation, and AIRLINE is itsrange, so a referential metonymy is clearly vacuous inthis case.In contrast, the relation AIRCRAFF-OF is total,but "wide-body jet" is a proper subclass of its range(AIRCRAFT), so this condition does not hold for "Whatwide body jets serve dinner?"
and referential metonymyis allowed for it.Similar pragmatic onsiderations can be appliedto rule out predicative metonymy in some cases.
Ifa metonymically extended predicate provides no con-straint on the NP, then predicative metonymy is theless likely reading.
Consider again our referential ex-ample, "What wide-body jets serve dinner".
I f  this istaken predicatively, it would have as its logical form:(wh x jet(and (wide-body x)(exists y flight(and (aircraft y x)(serve flight-of ymeal-of dinner)))))92The class AIRCRAFT in ATIS is really the set ofaircraft-types, and the same aircraft-type is typicallyused by a large number of flights with nothing par-ticularly in common.
It therefore seems unlikely thatthe property "(used on flights)that serve dinner" offersany constraint on the class AIRCRAFT: in other words,that being a particular type of aircraft and being usedby a flight that serves dinner are correlated in any way.This particular judgment, however, is based on humanknowledge and plausibility, and is difficult to formalizegiven the current state of the art in knowledge repre-sentation.We have proposed a number of possible theoreti-cal criteria for choosing between predicative and refer-ential metonymy.
It is of some interest, therefore, tocompare the relative occurences of predicative and ref-erential metonymy in actual data.
Our study of a large(> 5000 sentence) corpus of naturally collected ATISdata shows that predicative metonymy is very common.Noun phrases headed by "fare", "airline" and "ticket"frequently appear in positions that require a flight argu-ment.
Yet it is clear, both from the meaning of the utter-ance, and from the judgements of independent annota-tors who pair these sentences with "correct" responsesfor NL system evaluation, that fares and airlines arebeing talked about in such cases, and not flights.Indeed, our experiments have shown that allow-ing predicative metonymic oercion when evaluatingDELPHI against his corpus leads to a 27% decrease inweighted error over not allowing it.
This is very sub-stantial difference indeed, and testifies to the importanceof the metonymy phenomenon i actual data.As for the referential type of metonymy, we havefound only a few cases of it in this corpus.
We hy-pothesize that the reason for this is that referentialmetonymy, involving as it does an encoding of a ref-erence in terms of a categorially different hing, is amore marked and unusual event in psychological terms.Predicative metonymy, on the other hand, involves nosuch operation, merely the convenient making-way of apredicate for a non-standard but related argument.
Forthis reason, our work prefers predicative metonymy asthe default choice in processing when no other evidenceis present.5 COMPARISON WITH PREVIOUSWORK,  CONCLUSIONSmetonymy must ultimately be treated as a global phe-nomenon over the sentence, part of which belongswith quantificational considerations and part with lo-cal compositional interpretation.
We have shown howpragmatic onsiderations of language use can influencewhich reading is preferred.The referential/predicative distinction is not ob-served in most of the writing on metonymy, which iseither not formal and computational in nature (Lakoffand Johnson,1980), or is oriented towards differenttypes of systems and computational concerns.
Hobbs(1987,1988), for instance, discusses metonymy alongwith a number of other "local pragmatic" issues (nom-inal compounds, etc.
), but this work is done in thecontext of a message-processing and not a question-anwering system, so many of the issues we have dis-cussed (wh-questions, etc.)
simply do not arise them.Something like the referential/predicative distinc-tion does seem to be present, however, in the work of afew other authors.
For example, Fass (1991) speaks ofwhat he calls the "source" or the "target" of a metonymybeing alternatively substituted for.
His sentence repre-sentations are not done in a formal logical framework,however, so it is difficult to tell if the ambiguity has areferential or truth-conditional consequence.Closer to our work is that of Pustejovsky (1991).He defines a notion he calls "logical metonymy"which seems quite close to our notion of predicativemetonymy.
In a sentence like "Mary enjoyed the book",logical metonymy changes the type of the verb "en-joy" to take an object like "book" which is not anevent but which is related to one (the reading of thebook).
As we have shown in Section 3, however, thesingle-interpolation requirement for multiple coercingpredicates poses a technical problem for a verb type-changing view which only looks at the given verb andargument by themselves.
Our work has demonstratedthat a correct account of metonymic oercion must, inthe most general case, involve considerations that areglobal over the whole utterance interpretation.Our work has also demonstrated animportant inter-action between appropriateness of metonymic readingsand the Gricean Maxim of Quantity.
To our knowl-edge, no other work has done this.
Finally, our workdiffers from previous work in the area by having beencarded out in an environment of objective evaluation,an environment whose rigors have pushed us towardsmany of the insights presented here.We have argued for a distinction between two typesof metonymic reading, and have given evidence that936 AcknowledgmentsThe work reported here was supported by the AdvancedResearch Projects Agency and was monitored by theOffice of Naval Research under Contract No.
N00014-92-C-0035.
The views and conclusions contained inthis document are those of the author and should not beinterpreted as necessarily representing the official poli-cies, either expressed or implied, of the Defense Ad-vanced Research Projects Agency or the United StatesGovernment.I would like to thank James Pustejovsky and RustyBobrow for valuable comments and discussion.Volume 17, Number 1March 1991ReferencesLakoff, George and Johnson, Mark Metaphors We Live8yUniversity of Chicago Press 1980MADCOW Committee (Hirschman, Lynette et alMulti-Site Data Collection for a Spoken Language Cor-pusin Proceedings Speech and Natural Language WorkshopFebruary 1992Grice, H. P. Logic and Conversation i  P. Cole and J.L.
Morgan, Speech Acts,New York: Academic Press, 1975Pustejovsky, James The Generative LexiconComputational LinguisticsVolume 17, Number 4December 1991Hobbs, Jerry R. and Stickel, Mark Interpretation as Ab-ductionin Proceedings of the 26th ACLJune 1988Bobrow, R., Ingria, R. and Stallard, D.The Mapping Unit Approach to Subcategorizationin Proceedings Speech and Natural Language WorkshopFebruary 1991Hobbs, Jerry R., and Martin, Paul Local Pragmaticsin Proceedings, 10th International Joint Conference onArtificialIntelligence (IJCAI-87).
Milan, ItalyFass, Dan met*: A Method for Discrimating Metonymyand Metaphor by ComputerComputational Linguistics94
