From Strings to Trees to Strings to Trees(Abstract)Aravind K. JoshiDept .
of  Computer  and  In format ion  Sc ienceUn ivers i ty  of  Pennsy lvan ia ,  Ph i lade lph ia  PA 19104Sentences are not just strings of words (or are they?
), they have some (hierarchical) structure.
This muchis accepted by all grammar formalisms.
But how muchstructure is needed?
The more the sentences are likestrings the less the need for structure.A certain amount of structure is necessary simply be-cause a clause may embed another clause, or one clausemay attach to another clause or parts of it.
Leav-ing this need of structure aside, the question then ishow much structure should a (minimal) clause have?Grammar formalisms can differ significantly on this is-sue.
Minimal clauses can be just strings, or wordslinked by dependencies (dependency trees), or with richphrase structure trees, or with flat (one level) phrasestructure trees (almost strings) and so on.
How muchhierarchical structure is needed for a minimal clauseis still an open question, that is being debated heat-edly.
How are clauses put together?
Are these oper-ations more like string manipulations (concatenation,insertion, or wrapping, for example) or are they morelike tree transformations (generalized transformationsof the early transformational grammars, for example)?Curiously, the early transformational grammars, al-though clearly using tree transformations, actually for-mulated the transformations a pseudo string-like op-erations!
More recent non-transformational grammarsdiffer significantly with respect to their use of stringrewriting or tree rewriting operations.Grammar formalisms differ with respect to theirstringiness or treeness.
Also during their evolution,they have gone back and forth between string-like andtree-like representations, often combining them in dif-ferent ways.
These swings are a reflection of the com-plex interplay between aspects of language structuresuch as constituency, dependency, dominance, localityof predicates and their arguments, adjacency, order,and discontinuity.
We will discuss these issues in an in-formal manner, in the context of a range of formalisms.33
