VERB SEMANTICS  AND LEX ICAL  SELECT IONZhibiao WuDepar tment  of In format ion System& Computer  ScienceNational  University of SingaporeRepubl ic of Singapore, 0511wuzhibia@iscs.nus.sgMar tha  Pa lmerDepar tment  of Computer  andInformat ion ScienceUniversity of PennsylvaniaPhi ladelphia,  PA 19104-6389mpalmer@linc.c is .upenn.eduAbst rac tThis paper will focus on the semantic representa-tion of verbs in computer systems and its impacton lexical selection problems in machine transla-tion (MT).
Two groups of English and Chineseverbs are examined to show that lexical selec-tion must be based on interpretation of the sen-tence as well as selection restrictions placed on theverb arguments.
A novel representation schemeis suggested, and is compared to representationswith selection restrictions used in transfer-basedMT.
We see our approach as closely aligned withknowledge-based MT approaches (KBMT), and asa separate component that could be incorporatedinto existing systems.
Examples and experimentalresults will show that, using this scheme, inexactmatches can achieve correct lexical selection.IntroductionThe task of lexical selection in machine transla-tion (MT) is choosing the target lexical item whichmost closely carries the same meaning as the cor-responding item in the source text.
Informationsources that support his decision making processare the source text, dictionaries, and knowledgebases in MT systems.
In the early direct replace-ment approaches, very little data was used for verbselection.
The source verb was directly replaced bya target verb with the help of a bilingual dictio-nary.
In transfer-based approaches, more informa-tion is involved in the verb selection process.
Inparticular, the verb argument s ructure is used forselecting the target verb.
This requires that eachtranslation verb pair and the selection restrictionson the verb arguments be exhaustively isted inthe bilingual dictionary.
In this way, a verb senseis defined with a target verb and a set of selectionrestrictions on its arguments.
Our questions are:Is the exhaustive listing of translation verb pairsfeasible?
Is this verb representation scheme suffi-cient for solving the verb selection problem?
Ourstudy of a particular MT system shows that whenEnglish verbs are translated into Chinese, it is dif-ficult to achieve large coverage by listing transla-tion pairs.
We will show that a set of rigid se-lection restrictions on verb arguments can at bestdefine a default situation for the verb usage.
Thetranslations from English verbs to Chinese verbcompounds that we present here provide evidenceof the reference to the context and to a fine-grainedlevel of semantic representation.
Therefore, wepropose a novel verb semantic representation thatdefines each verb by a set of concepts in differ-ent conceptual domains.
Based on this conceptualrepresentation, a similarity measure can be definedthat allows correct lexical choice to be achieved,even when there is no exact lexical match fromthe source language to the target language.We see this approach as compatible with otherinterlingua verb representation methods, such asverb representations i  KBMT (Nirenburg,1992)and UNITRAN (Dorr, 1990).
Since these methodsdo not currently employ amulti-domain approach,they cannot address the fine-tuned meaning dif-ferences among verbs and the correspondence b -tween semantics and syntax.
Our approach couldbe adapted to either of these systems and incopo-rated into them.The limitations of direct transferIn a transfer-based MT system, pairs of verbs areexhaustively isted in a bilingual dictionary.
Thetranslation of a source verb is limited by the num-ber of entries in the dictionary.
For some sourceverbs with just a few translations, this method isdirect and efficient.
However, some source verbsare very active and have a lot of different transla-tions in the target language.
As illustrated by thefollowing test of a commercial English to ChineseMT system, TranStar, using sentences from theBrown corpus, current ransfer-based approacheshave no alternative to listing every translationpair.In the Brown corpus, 246 sentences take breakas the main verb.
After removing most idiomatic133usages and verb particle constructions, there are157 sentences left.
We used these sentences to testTranStar.
The translation results are shown be-low:d=ui  pohui  ji&nxieto hreuk into  pieces to  na&ke d~m&ge to  to  h~ve ?
break5 2 JIl t 0jue l ie  wei fzn bsofLto  bresk (8 rel~tlon) to  ~g~inst to  bresk out0 0 of~henguzh~ng chu&nlu d~du~nto  break down to  bresh into to  break & cont inui tytupo  deshixi&nd&n weibelto  break through to  bre&k even wi th  to  bre&k (~ promise)ow~nchen jued~bufento  bre&k wi thIn the TranStar system, English break onlyhas 13 Chinese verb entries.
The numbers aboveare the frequencies with which the 157 sentencestranslated into a particular Chinese expression.Most of the zero frequencies represent Chineseverbs that correspond to English break idiomaticusages or verb particle constructions which wereremoved.
The accuracy rate of the translation isnot high.
Only 30 (19.1%) words were correctlytranslated.
The Chinese verb ~7\]i~ (dasui) actslike a default translation when no other choicematches.The same 157 sentences were translated byone of the authors into 68 Chinese verb expres-sions.
These expressions can be listed accordingto the frequency with which they occurred, in de-creasing order.
The verb which has the highestrank is the verb which has the highest frequency.In this way, the frequency distribution of the twodifferent translations can be shown below:Figure 1.
Frequency distribution of translationsIt seems that the nature of the lexical selec-tion task in translation obeys Zipf's law.
It meansthat, for all possible verb usages, a large portionis translated into a few target verbs, while a smallportion might be translated into many differenttarget verbs.
Any approach that has a fixed num-ber of target candidate verbs and provides no wayto measure the meaning similarity among verbs,is not able to handle the new verb usages, i.e.,the small portion outside the dictionary cover-age.
However, a native speaker has an unrestrictednumber of verbs for lexical selection.
By measur-ing the similarities among target verbs, the mostsimilar one can be chosen for the new verb usage.The challenge of verb representation is to capturethe fluid nature of verb meanings that allows hu-man speakers to contrive new usages in every sen-tence.T rans la t ing  Eng l i sh  in to  Ch ineseser ia l  verb  compoundsTranslating the English verb break into Chinese(Mandarin) poses unusual difficulties for two rea-sons.
One is that in English break can be thoughtof as a very general verb indicating an entire set ofbreaking events that can be distinguished by theresulting state of the object being broken.
Shatter,snap, split, etc., can all be seen as more special-ized versions of the general breaking event.
Chi-nese has no equivalent verb for indicating the classof breaking events, and each usage of break has tobe mapped on to a more specialized lexical item.This is the equivalent of having to first interpretthe English expression into its more semanticallyprecise situation.
For instance this would probablyresult in mapping, John broke the crystal vase, andJohn broke the stick onto John shattered the crys-tal vase and John snapped the stick.
Also, Englishspecializations of break do not cover all the waysin which Chinese can express a breaking event.But that is only part of the difficulty in trans-lation.
In addition to requiring more semanticallyprecise lexemes, Mandarin also requires a serialverb construction.
The action by which force isexerted to violate the integrity of the object beingbroken must be specified, as well as the descriptionof the resulting state of the broken object itself.Serial verb compounds in Chinese - Chineseserial verb compounds are composed of two Chi-nese characters, with the first character being averb, and the second character being a verb or ad-jective.
The grammatical nalysis can be found in(Wu, 1991).
The following is an example:Yuehan da-sui le huapin.John hit-broken Asp.
vase.John broke the vase.
(VA)Here, da is the action of John, sui is the result-ing state of the vase after the action.
These twoChinese characters are composed to form a verbcompound.
Chinese verb compounds are produc-tive.
Different verbs and adjectives can be com-posed to form new verb compounds, as in ilia, ji-sui, hit-being-in-pieces; or ilia, ji-duan, hit-being-in-line-shape.
Many of these verb compounds havenot been listed in the human dictionary.
However,they must still be listed individually in a machinedictionary.
Not any single character verb or singlecharacter adjective can be composed to form a VAtype verb compound.
The productive applicationsmust be semantically sound, and therefore have totreated individually.134Inadequacy of select ion restr ict ions forchoosing act ions - By looking at specific ex-amples, it soon becomes clear that shallow selec-tion restrictions give very little information aboutthe choice of the action.
An understanding of thecontext is necessary.For the sentence John broke the vase, a correcttranslation is:Yuehan da-sui le huapin.John hit-in-pieces Asp.
vase.Here break is translated into a VA type verbcompound.
The action is specified clearly inthe translation sentence.
The following sentenceswhich do not specify the action clearly are anoma-lous., ~t r  ~ T ~Yuehan sui le huapin.John in-pieces Asp.
vase.A translation with a causation verb is alsoanomalous:* ~ ~ ~t  ~ T.Yuehan shi huapin sui le.John let vase in-pieces Asp.The following example shows that the trans-lation must depend on an understanding of thesurrounding context.The earthquake shook the room violently, andthe more fragile pieces did not hold up well.The dishes shattered, and the glass table wassmashed into many pieces.Translation of last clause:na boli zhuozi bei zhenchen le euipianThat glass table Pass.
shake-become Asp.
piecesSelect ion restr ict ions re l iab ly  choose resu l tstates - Selection restrictions are more reliablewhen they are used for specifying the result state.For example, break in the vase broke is translatedinto dasui (hit and broken into pieces), since thevase is brittle and easily broken into pieces.
Breakin the stick broke is translated into zheduan (bendand separated into line-segment shape) which isa default situation for breaking a line-segmentshape object.
However, even here, sometimes thecontext can override the selection restrictions ona particular noun.
In John broke the stick intopieces, the obvious translation would be da sui in-stead.
These examples illustrate that achievingcorrect lexical choice requires more than a simplematching of selection restrictions.
A fine-grainedsemantic representation of the interpretation ofthe entire sentence is required.
This can indicatethe contextually implied action as well as the re-sulting state of the object involved.
An explicitrepresentation f the context is beyond the stateof the art for current machine translation.
Whenthe context is not available, We need an algorithmfor selecting the action verb.
Following is a deci-sion tree for translating English Change-of-stateverbs into Chinese:k, ti.m upremmiia emt~V .I.
A ~ bs Ac~oo cu be inferred~,~,-~ \]ss.lcm o~ def~ ~clm ex~.sV t A wu:b but  ud:cbaaato Kleet vEb ~?i f i~ lU.. genre, ie t i=  gse caromh~=oa, (I=~, ?j=) (=hi, ran, to ,=~.
}Figure 2.
Decision tree for translationA mul t i -domain  approachWe suggest that to achieve accurate lexical se-lection, it is necessary to have fine-grained selec-tion restrictions that can be matched in a flexiblefashion, and which can be augmented when nec-essary by context-dependent k owledge-based un-derstanding.
The underlying framework for boththe selection restrictions on the verb argumentsand the knowledge base should be a verb tax-onomy that relates verbs with similar meaningsby associating them with the same conceptual do-mains.We view a verb meaning as a lexicalized con-cept which is undecomposable.
However, this se-mantic form can be projected onto a set of con-cepts in different conceptual domains.
Langacker(Langacker, 1988) presents a set of basic domainsused for defining a knife.
It is possible to definean entity by using the size, shape, color, weight,functionality etc.
We think it is also possible toidentify a compatible set of conceptual domains forcharacterizing events and therefore, defining verbsas well.
Initially we are relying on the semanticdomains suggested by Levin as relevant o syn-tactic alternations, uch as motion, force, contact,change-of-state and action, etc, (Levin, 1992).
Wewill augment hese domains as needed to distin-guish between different senses for the achievmentof accurate lexical selection.If words can be defined with concepts in ahierarchical structure, it is possible to measurethe meaning similarity between words with an in-formation measure based on WordNet (Resnik,1993), or structure level information based on athesaurus (Kurohashi and Nagao, 1992).
How-ever, verb meanings are difficult to organize in a135hierarchical structure.
One reason is that manyverb meanings are involved in several different con-ceptual domains.
For example, break identifies achange-of-state event with an optional causationconception, while hit identifies a complex event in-volving motion, force and contact domains.
ThoseChinese verb compounds with V + A construc-tions always identify complex events which involveaction and change-of-state domains.
Levin hasdemonstrated that in English a verb's syntacticbehavior has a close relation to semantic com-ponents of the verb.
Our lexical selection studyshows that these semantic domains are also impor-tant for accurate lexical selection.
For example, inthe above decision tree for action selection, a Chi-nese verb compound dasui can be defined with aconcept ~hit-action in an action domain and aconcept ~separate-into-pieces in a change-of-statedomain.
The action domain can be further dividedinto motion, force, contact domains, etc.
A relateddiscussion about defining complex concepts withsimple concepts can be found in (Ravin, 1990).The semantic relations of verbs that are relevantto syntactic behavior and that capture part of thesimilarity between verbs can be more closely re-alized with a conceptual multi-domain approachthan with a paraphrase approach.
Therefore wepropose the following representation method forverbs, which makes use of several different con-cept domains for verb representation.Def in ing verb  pro jec t ions  - Following is a rep-resentation of a break sense.LEXEME BREAK-IEXAMPLE I dropped my cup and it broke.CONSTRAINT (is-a physical-object El)(is-a animate-object EO)(is-a instrument E~)\[ ch.ofstate (~ehange-o\].integrity El) \] OBLOPTIMPcausation (~cause EO *)instrument (~with-instrument EO E~I time (~around-time @tO *)space  (~at-location @10 EO)(~at-location 011 El)(~at-location @12 E2)I action @L functionality @The CONSTRAINT slot encodes the selectioninformation on verb arguments, but the meaningitself is not a paraphrase.
The meaning repre-sentation is divided into three parts.
It identifiesa %change-of-integrity concept in the change-of-state domain which is OBLIGATORY to the verbmeaning.
The causation and instrument domainsare OPTIONAL and may be realized by syntacticalternations.
Other time, space, action and func-tionality domains are IMPLICIT, and are neces-sary for all events of this type.In each conceptual domain, lexicalized con-cepts can be organized in a hierarchical struc-ture.
The conceptual domains for English andChinese are merged to form interlingua conceptualdomains used for similarity measures.
Following ispart of the change-of-state domain containing En-glish and Chinese lexicalized concepts.c~tmp-, f-yatt,~pa~-h ~aM-h ~ka=Inliu-~j~t p t~ ir~la:tkqm(C:du~,dltbu) (C:ni, l~jni)  (C:p,y~po)Figure 3.
Change-of-state domain for English and ChineseWith in  one conceptual domain, the similarityof two concepts is defined by how closely they arerelated in the hierarchy, i.e., their structural rela-tions.Figure 4.
The concept similarity measureThe conceptual similarity between C1 and C2is:ConSim(C1, C2) = 2,N3 Nl+N2+2*N3C3 is the least common superconcept of C1and C2.
N1 is the number of nodes on the pathfrom C1 to C3.
N2 is the number of nodes on thepath from C2 to C3.
N3 is the number of nodeson the path from C3 to root.After defining the similarity measure in onedomain, the similarity between two verb mean-ings, e. g, a target verb and a source verb, canbe defined as a summation of weighted similari-ties between pairs of simpler concepts in each ofthe domains the two verbs are projected onto.WordSim(Vt, V2) = ~-\]~i Wl * ConSim(Ci,,, el,2)136UNICON:  An  imp lementat ionWe have implemented a prototype lexical selec-tion system UNICON where the representationsof both the English and Chinese verbs are basedon a set of shared semantic domains.
The selec-tion information is also included in these repre-sentations, but does not have to match exactly.We then organize these concepts into hierarchicalstructures to form an interlingua conceptual base.The names of our concept domain constitute theartificial language on which an interlingua mustbe based, thus place us firmly in the knowledgebased understanding MT camp.
(Goodman andNirenburg, 1991).The input to the system is the source verb ar-gument structure.
After sense disambiguation, theinternal sentence representation can be formed.The system then tries to find the target verb real-ization for the internal representation.
If the con-cepts in the representation donot have any targetverb realization, the system takes nearby conceptsas candidates to see whether they have target verbrealizations.
If a target verb is found, an inexactmatch is performed with the target verb mean-ing and the internal representation, with the se-lection restrictions associated with the target verbbeing imposed on the input arguments.
Therefore,the system has two measurements in this inexactmatch.
One is the conceptual similarity of the in-ternal representation a d the target verb meaning,and the other is the degree of satisfaction of theselection restrictions on the verb arguments.
Wetake the conceptual similarity, i.e., the meaning, ashaving first priority over the selection restrictions.A runn ing  example  - For the English sentenceThe branch broke, after disambiguation, the inter-nal meaning representation f the sentence can be:\[ INTER-REP sentence-I \]ch-of-state (change-of-integrity branch-I)Since there is no Chinese lexicalized concepthaving an exact match for the concept change-of-integrity, the system looks at the similar conceptsin the lattice around it.
They are:(%SEPARAT E-IN-PIEC ES-STATE%SEPARATE-IN-NEEDLE-LIKE-STATE9~SEPARATE-IN-D UAN-STATE9~SEPARATE-IN-PO-STATE%SEPARATE-IN-SHANG-STATE%S EPARAT E-IN-F ENSUI-STAT E)For one concept %SEPARATE-IN-DUAN-STATE, there is a set of Chinese realizations:?
~- J~ dean la ( to separate in l ine-segment shape).?
~ -1  da dean ( to hit and separate the object  in l ine-segmentshape).?
~ dean cheat  ( to separate in li .
.
.
.
.
gment  shape into).?
~ \ ]~ zhe duan ( to bend and separate in l ine-segment shape withhuman hands)?
~ '~ gua dean ( to separate in l ine-segment shape by wind blow-ing).After filling the argument of each verb rep-resentation and doing an inexact match with theinternal representation, the result is as.follows:conceptions 6/7 0 0 0 0constraints 3/14 0 3/7 0 0The system then chooses the verb ~-J" (duanla) as the target realization.Handl ing metaphor ica l  usages - One test ofour approach was its ability to match metaphoricalusages, relying on a handcrafted ontology for theobjects involved.
We include it here to illustratethe flexibility and power of the similarity measurefor handling new usages.
In these examples thesystem effectively performs coercion of the verbarguments (Hobbs, 1986).The system was able to translate the followingmetaphorical usage from the Brown corpus cor-rectly.cfO9:86:No believer in the traditional devotionof royal servitors, the plump Pulley broke thelanguage barrier and lured her to Cairo whereshe waited for nine months, vainly hoping tosee Farouk.In our system, break has one sense which meansloss of functionality.
Its selection restriction isthat the patient should be a mechanical devicewhich fails to match language barrier.
However,in our ontology, a language barrier is supposed tobe an entity having functionality which has beenplaced in the nominal hierachy near the concept ofmechanical-device.
So the system can choose thebreak sense loss of functionality over all the otherbreak senses as the most probable one.
Based onthis interpretation, the system can correctly se-lect the Chinese verb ?YM da-po as the target re-alization.
The correct selection becomes possiblebecause the system has a measurement for the de-gree of satisfaction of the selection restrictions.
Inanother example,ca43:lO:Other tax-exempt bonds of State andlocal governments hit a price peak on Febru-ary P1, according to Standard gJ Poor's av-erage.hit is defined with the concepts %move-toward-in-space %contact-in-space %receive-fores.
Since tar-exempt bonds and a price peak are not physical ob-jects, the argument structure is excluded from theHIT usage type.
If the system has the knowledgethat price can be changed in value and fixed atsome value, and these concepts of change-in-value137and fix-at-value are near the concepts ~move-toward-in-space ~contact-in-space, the system caninterpret he meaning as change-in.value and fix-at-value.
In this case, the correct lexical selectioncan be made as Ik~ da-dao.
This result is pred-icated on the definition of hit as having conceptsin three domains that are all structurally related,i.e., nearby in the hierarchy, the concepts relatedto prices.Methodology and experimentalresultsOur UNICON system translates a subset (themore concrete usages) of the English break verbsfrom the Brown corpus into Chinese with largerfreedom to choose the target verbs and more ac-curacy than the TranStar system.
Our coveragehas been extended to include verbs from the se-mantically similar hit, touch, break and cut classesas defined by Beth Levin.
Twenty-one Englishverbs from these classes have been encoded in thesystem.
Four hundred Brown corpus sentenceswhich contain these 21 English verbs have been se-lected, Among them, 100 sentences with concreteobjects are used as training samples.
The verbswere translated into Chinese verbs.
The other 300sentences are divided into two test sets.
Test setone contains 154 sentences that are carefully cho-sen to make sure the verb takes a concrete objectas its patient.
For test set one, the lexical selec-tion of the system got a correct rate 57.8% be-fore encoding the meaning of the unknown verbarguments; and a correct rate 99.45% after givingthe unknown English words conceptual meaningsin the system's conceptual hierarchy.
The secondtest set contains 116 sentences including sentenceswith non-concrete objects, metaphors, etc.
Thelexical selection of the system got a correct rateof 31% before encoding the unknown verb argu-ments, a 75% correct rate after adding meaningsand a 88.8% correct rate after extended selectionprocess applied.
The extended selection processrelaxes the constraints and attempts to find outthe best possible target verb with the similaritymeasure.From these tests, we can see the benefit ofdefining the verbs on several cognitive domains.The conceptual hierarchical structure provides away of measuring the similarities among differ-ent verb senses; with relaxation, metaphorical pro-cessing becomes possible.
The correct rate is im-proved by 13.8% by using this extended selectionprocess.DiscussionWith examples from the translation of English toChinese we have shown that verb semantic repre-sentation has great impact on the quality of lexicalselection.
Selection restrictions on verb argumentscan only define default situations for verb events,and are often overridden by context information.Therefore, we propose a novel method for defin-ing verbs based on a set of shared semantic do-mains.
This representation scheme not only takescare of the semantic-syntactic orrespondence, butalso provides imilarity measures for the systemfor the performance of inexact matches based onverb meanings.
The conceptual similarity has pri-ority over selection constrants on the verb argu-ments.
We leave scaling up the system to futurework.REFERENCESDolm, B. J.
(1990).
Lezical Conceptual Structure andmachine Translation.
PhD thesis, MIT.GOODMAN, K. & NIRENBURG, S., editors (1991).
TheKBMT Project: A Case Study in Knowledge-Based Machine Translation.
Morgan KaufmannPublishers.HOBBS, J.
(1986).
Overview of the TACITUS Project.Computational Linguistics, 12(3).JACKENDOFF, R. (1990).
Semantic Structures.
MITPress.KUROHASm, S. & NAGAO, M. (1992).
DynamicProgramming Method for Analyzing ConjunctiveStructures in Japanese.
In Proceedings of the 14thInternational Conference on Computational Lin-guistics (COLING-9e), Nantes, France.LANQACKlm, R. W. (1988).
An overview of cognitivegrammar.
In RUDZKA-OSTYN, B., editor, Topicsin Cognitive Grammar.
John Benjamins Publish-ing Company, Amsterdam/Phil~lelphia.LEVlN, B.
(1992).
English Verb Classes and Alter-nations: A Preliminary Investigation.
Techni-cal report, Department ofLinguistics, Northwest-era University, 2016 Sheridan Road, Evanston, IL60208.NmENBURG, S., CARBONELL, J., TOMITA, M., &GOODMAN, K. (1992).
Machine Translation: AKnowledge-Based Approach.
Morgan KaufmannPublishers.RAVIN, Y.
(1990).
Lexical Semantics without The-matic Roles.
Clarendon Press, Oxford.RESNIK, P. (1993).
Selection and Information: AClass-Based Approach to Lexicai Relationships.PhD thesis, Department of Information andComputer Science, University of Pennsylvania.Wu, D. (1991).
On Serial verb Construction.
PhDthesis, Department of Information and ComputerScience, University of Maryland.138
