AL IGNING A PARALLEL  ENGL ISH-CHINESE CORPUSSTAT IST ICALLY  WITH LEX ICAL  CR ITERIADekai WuHKUSTDepartment  of Computer  ScienceUniversity of Science &: TechnologyClear Water  Bay, Hong KongInternet:  deka i?cs .us t .hkAbst rac tWe describe our experience with automatic align-ment of sentences in parallel English-Chinesetexts.
Our report concerns three related topics:(1) progress on the HKUST English-Chinese Par-allel Bilingual Corpus; (2) experiments addressingthe applicability of Gale ~ Church's (1991) length-based statistical method to the task of align-ment involving a non-Indo-European language;and (3) an improved statistical method that alsoincorporates domain-specific lexical cues.INTRODUCTIONRecently, a number of automatic techniques foraligning sentences in parallel bilingual corporahave been proposed (Kay & RSscheisen 1988;Catizone e~ al.
1989; Gale & Church 1991; Brownet al 1991; Chen 1993), and coarser approacheswhen sentences are difficult to identify have alsobeen advanced (Church 1993; Dagan e~ al.
1993).Such corpora contain the same material that hasbeen translated by human experts into two lan-guages.
The goal of alignment is to identify match-ing sentences between the languages.
Alignment isthe first stage in extracting structural informationand statistical parameters from bilingual corpora.The problem is made more difficult because asen-tence in one language may correspond to multiplesentences in the other; worse yet, ?sometimes sev-eral sentences' content is distributed across multi-ple translated sentences.Approaches to alignment fall into two mainclasses: lexical and statistical.
Le?ically-basedtechniques use extensive online bilingual exiconsto match sentences.
In contrast, statistical tech-niques require almost no prior knowledge and arebased solely on the lengths of sentences.
Theempirical results to date suggest hat statisticalmethods yield performance superior to that of cur-rently available lexical techniques.However, as far as we know, the literatureon automatic alignment has been restricted to al-phabetic Indo-European languages.
This method-ological flaw weakens the arguments in favor ofeither approach, since it is unclear to what extenta technique's superiority depends on the similar-ity between related languages.
The work reportedherein moves towards addressing this problem.
1In this paper, we describe our experiencewith automatic alignment of sentences in paral-lel English-Chinese t xts, which was performed aspart of the SILC machine translation project.
Ourreport concerns three related topics.
In the first ofthe following sections, we describe the objectivesof the HKUST English-Chinese Parallel BilingualCorpus, and our progress.
The subsequent sec-tions report experiments addressing the applica-bility of a suitably modified version of Gale &Church's (1991) length-based statistical method tothe task of aligning English with Chinese.
In thefinal section, we describe an improved statisticalmethod that also permits domain-specific lexicalcues to be incorporated probabilistically.THE ENGL ISH-CHINESECORPUSThe dearth of work on non-Indo-European lan-guages can partly be attributed to a lack of theprequisite bilingual corpora.
As a step towardremedying this, we are in the process of construct-ing a suitable English-Chinese corpus.
To be in-cluded, materials must contain primarily tight, lit-eral sentence translations.
This rules out most fic-tion and literary material.We have been concentrating on the HongKong Hansard, which are the parliamentary pro-ceedings of the Legislative Council (LegCo).
Anal-ogously to the bilingual texts of the CanadianHansard (Gale & Church 1991), LegCo tran-scripts are kept in full translation i both English1Some newer methods are also intended to be ap-plied to non-Indo-European languages in the future(Fung $z Church 1994).80and Cantonese.
2 However, unlike the CanadianHansard, the Hong Kong Hansard has not pre-viously been available in machine-readable form.We have obtained and converted these materialsby special arrangement.The materials contain high-quality literaltranslation.
Statements in LegCo may be madeusing either English or Cantonese, and are tran-scribed in the original language.
A translation tothe other language is made later to yield com-plete parallel texts, with annotations pecifyingthe source language used by each speaker.
Mostsentences are translated 1-for-1.
A small propor-tion are 1-for-2 or 2-for-2, and on rare occasion1-for-3, 3-for-3, or other configurations.
Samplesof the English and Chinese texts can be seen infigures 3 and 4.
3Because of the obscure format of the origi-nal data, it has been necessary to employ a sub-stantial amount of automatic onversion and ref-ormatting.
Sentences are identified automaticallyusing heuristics that depend on punctuation andspacing.
Segmentation errors occur occasionally,due either to typographical errors in the originaldata, or to inadequacies of our automatic onver-sion heuristics.
This simply results in incorrectlyplaced delimiters; it does not remove any text fromthe corpus.Although the emphasis is on clean text sothat markup is minimal, paragraphs and sentencesare marked following TEI-conformant SGML(Sperberg-McQueen & Burnard 1992).
We use theterm "sentence" in a generalized sense includinglines in itemized lists, headings, and other non-sentential segments maller than a paragraph.The corpus currently contains about 60Mb ofraw data, of which we have been concentratingon approximately 3.2Mb.
Of this, 2.1Mb is textcomprised of approximately 0.35 million Englishwords, with the corresponding Chinese translationoccupying the remaining 1.1Mb.STATIST ICALLY-BASEDAL IGNMENTThe statistical approach to alignment can be sum-marized as follows: choose the alignment hatmaximizes the probability over all possible align-ments, given a pair of parallel texts.
Formally,2Cantonese is one of the four major Han Chineselanguages.
Formal written Cantonese mploys thesame characters as Mandarin, with some additions.Though there are grammatical nd usage differencesbetween the Chinese languages, as between Germanand Swiss German, the written forms can be read byall.3For further description see also Fung &: Wu (1994).choose(1) arg m~x Pr(A VT1, if-2)where .A is an alignment, and ~ and "T2 are theEnglish and Chinese texts, respectively.
An align-ment .A is a set consisting of L1 ~ L~ pairs whereeach L1 or L2 is an English or Chinese passage.This formulation is so extremely general thatit is difficult to argue against its pure form.
Morecontroversial re the approximations that must bemade to obtain a tractable version.The first commonly made approximation isthat the probabilities of the individual alignedpairs within an alignment are independent, i.e.,Pr(A\[TI,'T2) ~ H Pr(Li ~-- L2\[~,9-2)(LI.~-L~)EAThe other common approximation is that eachPr(L1 ~- L217-t,7-2) depends not on the entiretexts, but only on the contents of the specific pas-sages within the alignment:Pr(AI~'T2)  ~ H Pr(L1 ~-- L~IL1,L~ )(LI~---L2)E,AMaximization of this approximation to thealignment probabilities is easily converted into aminimum-sum problem:(2)arg rnAax Pr (.AI~ , ~r~)~.
argm~x H Vr(L1 = L21L1,L2)(Lt.~--L2)E.A= argn~n E - logPr (L1  ~-~ L2IL1,L2)(Lt~L2)E.AThe minimization can be implemented using a dy-namic programming strategy.Further approximations vary according to thespecific method being used.
Below, we first discussa pure length-based approximation, then a methodwith lexical extensions.APPL ICABIL ITY  OF LENGTH-BASED METHODS TO CHINESELength-based alignment methods are based on thefollowing approximation to equation (2):(3) Pr( /1 ~- L2\[LI,L2) ~ er(L1 ~-- L~lll,l~ )where 11 = length(L1) and l~ = length(L2), mea-sured in number of characters.
In other words,the only feature of Lt and L2 that affects theiralignment probability is their length.
Note thatthere are other length-based alignment methods81that measure length in number of words insteadof characters (Brown et al 1991).
However, sinceChinese text consists of an unsegmented characterstream without marked word boundaries, it wouldnot be possible to count the number of words in asentence without first parsing it.Although it has been suggested that length-based methods are language-independent (Gale &Church 1991; Brown et al 1991), they may in factrely to some extent on length correlations arisingfrom the historical relationships of the languagesbeing aligned.
If translated sentences hare cog-nates, then the character lengths of those cognatesare of course correlated.
Grammatical similaritiesbetween related languages may also produce cor-relations in sentence lengths.Moreover, the combinatorics of non-Indo-European languages can depart greatly from Indo-European languages.
In Chinese, the majority ofwords are just one or two characters long (thoughcollocations up to four characters are also com-mon).
At the same time, there are several thou-sand characters in daily use, as in conversation ornewspaper text.
Such lexical differences make iteven less obvious whether pure sentence-length cri-teria are adequately discriminating for statisticalalignment.Our first goal, therefore, is to test whetherpurely length-based alignment results can be repli-cated for English and Chinese, languages fromunrelated families.
However, before length-basedmethods can be applied to Chinese, it is first nec-essary to generalize the notion of "number of char-acters" to Chinese strings, because most Chinesetext (including our corpus) includes occasionalEnglish proper names and abbreviations, as wellas punctuation marks.
Our approach is to counteach Chinese character as having length 2, andeach English or punctuation character as havinglength 1.
This corresponds to the byte count fortext stored in the hybrid English-Chinese ncod-ing system known as Big 5.Gale & Church's (1991) length-based align-ment method is based on the model that eachEnglish character in L1 is responsible for generat-ing some number of characters in L2.
This modelleads to a further approximation which encapsu-lates the dependence to a single parameter 6 thatis a function of 11 and 1s:Pr(L1 = L2IL1,L2) .~ Pr(L1 ~-- L216(11,12))However, it is much easier to estimate the distrib-utions for the inverted form obtained by applyingBayes' Rule:Pr(L1 = L216) = Pr(6\]L1 ~ L2) Pr(nl  ~- n2)Pr(6)where Pr(6) is a normalizing constant hat canbe ignored during minimization.
The other twodistributions are estimated as follows.First we choose a function for 6(11,12).
Todo this we look at the relation between 11 and12 under the generative model.
Figure 1 showsa plot of English versus Chinese sentence lengthsfor a hand-aligned sample of 142 sentences.
Ifthe sentence lengths were perfectly correlated, thepoints would lie on a diagonal through the origin.We estimate the slope of this idealized diagonalc = E(r)  = E(12/l l)  by averaging over the trainingcorpus of hand-aligned L1 ~- L2 pairs, weightingby the length of L1.
In fact this plot displays ub-stantially greater scatter than the English-Frenchdata of Gale & Church (1991).
4 The mean numberof Chinese characters generated by each Englishcharacter is c = 0.506, with a standard deviation~r = 0.166.We now assume that 12 - llc is normally dis-tributed, following Gale & Church (1991), andtransform it into a new gaussian variable of stan-dard form (i.e., with mean 0 and variance 1) byappropriate normalization:12 - 11 c(4) x/~l tr 2This is the quantity that we choose to define as6(/1,12).
Consequently, for any two pairs in a pro-posed alignment, Pr(6\[Lt ~- L~) can be estimatedaccording to the gaussian assumption.To check how accurate the gaussian assump-tion is, we can use equation (4) to transform thesame training points from figure 1 and produce ahistogram.
The result is shown in figure 2.
Again,the distribution deviates from a gaussian distri-bution substantially more than Gale & Church(1991) report for French/German/English.
More-over, the distribution does not resemble allysmooth distribution at all, including the logarith-mic normal used by Brown el al.
(1991), raisingdoubts about the potential performance of purelength-based alignment.Continuing nevertheless, to estimate the otherterm Pr(L1 ~ L2), a prior over six classes is con-structed, where the classes are defined by the nmn-ber of passages included within L1 and L2.
Table 1shows the probabilities used.
These probabilitiesare taken directly from Gale & Church (1991);slightly improved performance might be obtainedby estimating these probabilities from our corpus.The aligned results using this model were eval-uated by hand for the entire contents of a ran-4The difference is also partly due to the fact thatGale & Church (1991) plot paragraph lengths insteadof sentence l ngths.
We have chosen to plot sentencelengths because that is what the algorithm is basedon.821.
?MR FRED LI ( in Cantonese ) : J2.
I would like to talk about public assistance.
J3.
I notice from your address that under the PublicAssistanceScheme, thebas ic ra teo f$825amonth~ra~825~950~,~15%o \]single adult will be increased by 15% to $950 a month.l4.
However, do you know that the revised rate plus allother grants will give each recipient no more than$2000 a month?
On average, each recipient will receive$1600 to $1700 a month.
\]5.
In view of Hong Kong's prosperity and high living cost,this figure is very ironical.
J6.
May I have your views and that of the Government?
\]7.
Do you think that a comprehensive r view should beconducted on the method of calculating publicassistance?
\]8.
Since the basic rate is so low, it will still be far belowthe current level of living even if it is further increasedby 20% to 30%.
If no comprehensive r view is carriedout in this aspect, this " safety net " cannot provideany assistance at all for those who are really in need.
J9.
I hope Mr Governor will give this question a seriousresponse.
J10.
?THE GOVERNOR: J11.
It is not in any way to belittle the importance of thepoint that the Honourable Member has made to saythat, when at the outset of our discussions I said that Idid not think that the Government would be regardedfor long as having been extravagant yesterday, I did notrealize that the criticisms would begin quite as rapidlyas they have.
\]12.
The proposals that we make on public assistance, boththe increase in scale rates, and the relaxation of theabsence rule, are substantial steps forward in HongKong which will, I think, be very widely welcomed.
J13.
But I know that there will always be those who, I amsure for very good reason, will say you should havegone further, you should have clone more.
J14.
Societies customarily make advances in social welfarebecause there are members of the community whodevelop that sort of case very often with eloquence andverve.
\]N,~B~1600~N1700~o\ ]N ~ ~ ~ ?
JN~N~,A~2o%~3o%,~~~ ~ o J~ ~ N ~ o JA E ~ ~ N ~ , A ~ # ~ ~ ~~o ~ ~ ~ , ~ ~ D ~~ ~ ~ , ~ ~ , ~ N~--~,~~~oJ~,~~X- -~,~~- -~,~~ - ~ , ~ ~ ~ $ ~ ~oJFigure 3: A sample of length-based alignment output.domly selected pair of English and Chinese filescorresponding to a complete session, comprising506 English sentences and 505 Chinese sentences.Figure 3 shows an excerpt from this output.
Mostof the true 1-for-1 pairs are aligned correctly.
In(4), two English sentences are correctly alignedwith a single Chinese sentence.
However, the Eng-lish sentences in (6, 7) are incorrectly aligned 1-for- 1 instead of 2-for- 1.
Also, (11, 12) shows an ex-ample of a 3-for-l, 1-for-1 sequence that the modelhas no choice but to align as 2-for-2, 2-for-2.Judging relative to a manual al ignment of theEnglish and Chinese files, a total of 86.4% ofthe true L1 ~- L~ pairs were correctly identifiedby the length-based method.
However, many ofthe errors occurred within the introductory ses-sion header, whose format is domain-specific (dis-83140120100SQ60402004, ?e m?=o?
~"gO L i i*mxam.ll" ?Figure 1: English versus Chinese sentence lengths.16 ?1412I0e642-S -4 .3 -2 -1?
i?
i" ioi ""ii o,* o **  *o0 1 2 3 4Figure 2: English versus Chinese sentence lengths.cussed below).
If the introduction is discarded,then the proportion of correctly aligned pairs risesto 95.2%, a respectable rate especially in view ofthe drastic inaccuracies in the distributions as-sumed.
A detailed breakdown of the results isshown in Table 2.
For reference, results reportedfor English/French generally fall between 96% and98%.
However, all of these numbers hould be in-terpreted as highly domain dependent, with verysmall sample size.The above rates are for Type I errors.
Thealternative measure of accuracy on Type II er-rors is useful for machine translation applications,where the objective is to extract only 1-for-1 sen-tence pairs, and to discard all others.
In this case,we are interested in the proportion of 1-for-1 out-put pairs that are true 1-for-1 pairs.
(In informa-tion retrieval terminology, this measures precisionwhereas the above measures recall.)
In the testsession, 438 1-for-1 pairs were output, of which377, or 86.1%, were true matches.
Again, how-ever, by discarding the introduction, the accuracyrises to a surprising 96.3%.segmentsL1 L20 11 01 11 22 12 2Pr(L1 ~ L2)0.00990.00990.890.0890.0890.011Table 1: Priors for Pr(L1 ~-- L2).The introductory session header exemplifiesa weakness of the pure length-based strategy,namely, its susceptibility to long stretches of pas-sages with roughly similar lengths.
In our datathis arises from the list of council members presentand absent at each session (figure 4), but similarstretches can arise in many other domains.
In sucha situation, two slight perturbations may cause theentire stretch of passages between the perturba-tions to be misaligned.
These perturbations caneasily arise from a number of causes, includingslight omissions or mismatches in the original par-allel texts, a 1-for-2 translation pair preceding orfollowing the stretch of passages, or errors in theheuristic segmentation preprocessing.
Substantialpenalties may occur at the beginning and endingboundaries of the misaligned region, where theperturbations lie, but the misalignment betweenthose boundaries incurs little penalty, because themismatched passages have apparently matchinglengths.
This problem is apparently exacerbatedby the non-alphabetic nature of Chinese.
BecauseChinese text contains fewer characters, characterlength is a less discriminating feature, varying overa range of fewer possible discrete values than thecorresponding English.
The next section discussesa solution to this problem.In summary, we have found that the statisti-cal correlation of sentence lengths has a far greatervariance for our English-Chinese materials thanwith the Indo-European materials used by Gale& Church (1991).
Despite this, the pure length-based method performs surprisingly well, exceptfor its weakness in handling long stretches of sen-tences with close lengths.STATIST ICAL INCORPORATIONOF LEX ICAL  CUESTo obtain further improvement in alignment accu-racy requires matching the passages' lexical con-tent, rather than using pure length criteria.
Thisis particularly relevant for the type of long mis-matched stretches described above.Previous work on alignment has employed ei-84TotalCorrectIncorrect% Correct1-1 1-2 2-1 2-2 1-3 3-1 3-3433 20 21 2 1 1 1361 17 20 0 0 0 011 3 1 2 1 1 187.1 85.0 95.2 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0Table 2: Detailed breakdown of length-based alignment results.1.
?THE DEPUTY PRESIDENT THE HONOURABLE ?~~J - - J : : -~ ,  K.B.E., L.V.O., J.P. JJOHN JOSEPH SWAINE, C.B.E., Q.C., J.P. J2.
?THE CHIEF SECRETARY THE HONOURABLESIR DAVID ROBERT FORD, K.B.E., L.V.O., J.P. J3.
?THE FINANCIAL SECRETARY THEHONOURABLE NATHANIEL WILLIAM HAMISHMACLEOD, C.B.E., J.P. Ji 37 misaligned matchings omitted41.
?THE HONOURALBE MAN SAI - CHEONG J42.
?THE HONOURABLE STEVEN POON KWOK -LIM THE HONOURABLE HENRY TANG YING -YEN, J.P. \]43.
?THE HONOURABLE TIK CHI- YUEN J?~~:N~iN,  C.B.E., J.P. J?~N, .~g~,  C.M.G., J.P. JjFigure 4: A sample of misalignment using pure length criteria.ther solely lexical or solely statistical ength cri-teria.
In contrast, we wish to incorporate lexicalcriteria without giving up the statistical approach,which provides a high baseline performance.Our method replaces equation (3) with the fol-lowing approximation:Pr(La ~--- L21L1, L2)Pr(LI ~- L2111,12, vl, Wl .
.
.
.
, vn, Wn)where vi = #occurrences(English cuei,L1) andwi = #occurrences(Chinese cu i, L2).
Again, thedependence is encapsulated within difference pa-rameters & as follows:Pr(L1 ~ L2\[L1, L2)Pr( L1 = L2}~0(~l,~2),(~l(V1,Wl), .
.
.
,~n(Vrt,Wn))Bayes' Rule now yieldsPr(L1 .-~ L2160, 61,62,.
?.
, 6n)o?
Pr((f0,61,... ,5,~1L1 ~-- L2)Pr(L1 = L2)The prior Pr(L1 ~ L2) is evaluated as before.
Weassume all 6i values are approximately indepen-dent, giving(5)nPr(60, .
.
,   nlL1 = 1-I Pr( ,lL1 = L2)i=0The same dynamic programming optimizationcan then be used.
However, the computation andmemory costs grow linearly with the number oflexical cues.
This may not seem expensive untilone considers that the pure length-based methodonly uses resources equivalent to that of a singlelexical cue.
It is in fact important o choose asfew lexical cues as possible to achieve the desiredaccuracy.Given the need to minimize the number of lex-ical cues chosen, two factors become important.First, a lexical cue should be highly reliable, sothat violations, which waste the additional com-putation, happen only rarely.
Second, the chosenlexical cues should occur frequently, since comput-ing the optimization over many zero counts is notuseful.
In general, these factors are quite domain-specific, so lexical cues must be chosen for the par-ticular corpus at hand.
Note further that whenthese conditions are met, the exact probability dis-tribution for the lexical 6/ parameters does nothave much influence on the preferred alignment.The bilingual correspondence lexicons we haveemployed are shown in figure 5.
These lexicalitems are quite common in the LegCo domain.Items like "C.B.E."
stand for honorific titles suchas "Commander of the British Empire"; the othercues are self-explanatory.
The cues nearly alwaysappear 14o-1 and the differences 6/therefore have85governor f~C.B.E.
C.B.E.J.B.E.
J.B.E.L.V.O.
L.V.O.Q.C.MarchJuneSeptemberDecemberWednesdaySaturdayQ.C.C.M.G.
C.M.G.
I.S.O.
I.S.O.J.P.
J.P. K.B.E.
K.B.E.O.B.E.
M.B.E.JanuaryAprilJulyO.B.E.FebruaryMayAugustNovemberM.B.E.OctoberMondayThursdaySundayTuesdayFridayFigure 5: Lexicons employed for paragraph (top) and sentence (bottom) alignment.a mean of zero.
Given the relative unimportanceof the exact distributions, all were simply assumedto be normally distributed with a variance of 0.07instead of sampling each parameter individually.This variance is fairly sharp, but nonetheless, con-servatively reflects a lower reliability than most ofthe cues actually possess.Using the lexical cue extensions, the Type Iresults on the same test file rise to 92.1% of trueL1 ~ L2 pairs correctly identified, as compared to86.4% for the pure length-based method.
The im-provement is entirely in the introductory sessionheader.
Without the header, the rate is 95.0% ascompared to 95.2% earlier (the discrepancy is in-significant and is due to somewhat arbitrary deci-sions made on anomolous regions).
Again, cautionshould be exercised in interpreting these percent-ages.By the alternative Type II measure, 96.1%of the output 1-for-1 pairs were true matches,compared to 86.1% using the pure length-basedmethod.
Again, there is an insignificant dropwhen the header is discarded, in this case from96.3% down to 95.8%.CONCLUSIONOf our raw corpus data, we have currently alignedapproximately 3.5Mb of combined English andChinese texts.
This has yielded 10,423 pairs clas-sifted as 1-for-l, which we are using to extractmore refined information.
This data representsover 0.217 million English words (about 1.269Mb)plus the corresponding Chinese text (0.659Mb).To our knowledge, this is the first large-scaleempirical demonstration that a pure length-basedmethod can yield high accuracy sentence align-ments between parallel texts in Indo-Europeanand entirely dissimilar non-alphabetic, non-Indo-European languages.
We are encouraged by theresults and plan to expand our program in thisdirection.We have also obtained highly promising im-provements by hybridizing lexical and length-based alignment methods within a common sta-tistical framework.
Though they are particularlyuseful for non-alphabetic languages where charac-ter length is not as discriminating a feature, we be-lieve improvements will result even when appliedto alphabetic languages.ACKNOWLEDGEMENTSI am indebted to Bill Gale for helpful clarifyingdiscussions, Xuanyin Xia and Wing Hong Chanfor assistance with conversion of corpus materials,as well as Graeme Hirst and Linda Peto.REFERENCESBROWN, PETER F., JENNIFER C. LAI, ~5ROBERT L. MERCER.
1991.
Aligning sen-tences in parallel corpora.
In Proceedings ofthe 29lh Annual Conference of the Associa-tion for Computational Linguistics, 169-176,Berkeley.CATIZONE, ROBERTA, GRAHAM RUSSELL, ~,5 SU-SAN WARWICK.
1989.
Deriving translationdata from bilingual texts.
In Proceedings ofthe First International Acquisition Workshop,Detroit.CHEN, STANLEY F. 1993.
Aligning sentencesin bilingual corpora using lexical information.In Proceedings of the 31st Annual Conferenceof the Association for Computational Linguis-tics, 9-16, Columbus, OH.CHURCH, KENNETH W. 1993.
Char-align: A pro-gram for aligning parallel texts at the char-acter level.
In Proceedings of the 31st AnnualConference of the Association for Computa-tional Linguistics, 1-8, Columbus, OH.86DAGAN, IDO, KENNETH W. CHURCH,WILLIAM A. GALE.
1993.
Robust bilingualword alignment for machine aided translation.In Proceedings of the Workshop on Very LargeCorpora, 1-8, Columbus, OH.FUNG, PASCALE ~ KENNETH W. CHURCH.
1994.K-vec: A new approach for aligning paralleltexts.
In Proceedings of the Fifteenth Interna-tional Conference on Computational Linguis-tics, Kyoto.
To appear.FUNG, PASCALE & DEKAI WU.
1994.
Statisticalaugmentation f a Chinese machine-readabledictionary.
In Proceedings of the Second An-nual Workshop on Very Large Corpora, Ky-oto.
To appear.GALE, WILLIAM A. L: KENNETH W. CHURCH.1991.
A program for aligning sentences inbilingual corpora.
In Proceedings of the 29thAnnual Conference of the Association forComputational Linguistics, 177-184, Berke-ley.KAY, MARTIN & M. RSSCHE1SEN.
1988.
Text-translation alignment.
Technical Report P90-00143, Xerox Palo Alto Research Center.SPERnERG-MCQUEEN, C. M. &Lou  BURNARD,1992.
Guidelines for electronic text encodingand interchange.
Version 2 draft.87
